This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  library  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 
to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 
to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 
are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  marginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 
publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  this  resource,  we  have  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 

We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  from  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attribution  The  Google  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  informing  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liability  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.  Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 


atjhttp  :  //books  .  qooqle  .  com/ 


HARVARD  DEPOSITORY 
BRITTLE  BOOK 


RETAIN  BOOK  COPY 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Digitized  by 


Google 


THE 

LIFE    AND    TIMES 

OF 

CAEEY,  MABSHMAN,  AND  WAED. 

VOL.  I. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


LOYDOV: 

pnnrTSD  by  sfottibwoodi  hid  co. 

nWHKBUT  SQUARB. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


THE 


LIFE    AND    TIMES 


OF 


CAREY,  MARSHMAN,  AND  WARD. 


EMBRACING  THE 


HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION. 


BY 


JOHN  CLARK  MARSHMAN. 


IN    TWO    VOLUMES. 


VOL.  I. 


LONDON 
LONGMAN,  BEOWN,  GBEEN,  LONGMANS,  &  BOBEBTS. 

1859 


Digitized  by 


Google 


0 


Digitized  hyVjCM 


PREFACE. 


In  the  course  of  this  work  it  has  been  requisite  to  impugn 
the  assertion  made  by  the  opponents  of  missions  to  India 
in  1793  and  1808,  that  any  attempt  to  convert  the  Hindoos 
would  result  in  insurrection  and  massacre.  Those  morbid 
apprehensions,  the  offspring  of  prejudice  and  timidity, 
have  been  treated  with  the  contempt  they  appeared  to 
merit :  but  while  the  work  has  been  passing  through  the 
press  an  unparalleled  tragedy  has  been  exhibited  in 
India ;  a  hundred  thousand  sepoys  have  appeared  in  open 
revolt,  and  endeavoured  to  subvert  our  dominion  and  to 
extirpate  our  race ;  and  this  insurrection  is  stated  by  them 
to  have  been  provoked  by  our  attempts  to  tamper  with 
their  caste  and  religion.  The  fearful  events  of  the  last 
eighteen  months  would  thus  appear  to  substantiate  those 
gloomy  prognostications,  and  to  countenance  the  doctrine 
that  any  attempt  to  interfere  with  the  religious  pre- 
judices of  the  natives  must  be  attended  with  imminent 
peril,  and  that  if  we  would  maintain  our  empire  in  the 
east,  we  must  leave  them  for  ever  under  the  dominion  of 
their  superstitions.  It  is  necessary,  therefore,  that  the 
question  of  the  mutiny  and  its  motives  should  be  dispas- 
sionately investigated.  It  is  important  to  the  interests  of 
the  conquerors  that  the  real  cause  of  this  tragic  event 
should  be  clearly  ascertained,  that  we  may  be  enabled  to 
guard  against  the  recurrence  of  it ;  it  is  equally  important 
to  the  welfare  of  the  natives  that  it  should  not  be  attri- 

A    4 


Digitized  by 


Google 


VI  PREFACE. 

buted  to  the  wrong  cause,  that  the  prospects  of  their  im- 
provement may  not  be  injured.  The  former  investigation 
may  be  left  to  the  politician;  the  latter  belongs  more 
especially  to  the  philanthropist. 

That  the  mutiny  was  not  in  any  measure  occasioned  by 
the  labours  of  the  missionaries  there  is  the  most  conclusive 
evidence.  During  the  revolt  diverse  manifestos  were  pro- 
mulgated by  the  insurrectionary  chiefs,  with  the  view  of 
inflaming  the  minds  of  the  people,  by  an  exposition  of  the 
grievances  to  which  they  were  subject  under  the  dominion 
of  the  Feringees*  But  in  this  catalogue  of  grievances, 
some  of  which  were  merely  plausible  and  others  purely 
imaginary,  there  was  not  the  most  remote  allusion  to  the 
exertions  of  the  missionaries,  and  it  is  manifest  that  if 
their  labours  had  been  regarded  as  a  popular  grievance, 
which  could  be  turned  to  account,  they  would  not  have 
been  overlooked.  But  in  addition  to  this  negative  evidence 
there  is  the  positive  testimony  of  large  and  influential 
bodies  of  natives  who  have,  of  their  own  accord,  come  for- 
ward and  asserted  that  the  endeavours  of  the  missionaries 
were  in  no  respect  connected  with  the  revolt ;  that  their 
blameless  life,  their  disinterested  and  benevolent  exertions, 
and  their  sympathy  with  the  feelings  and  the  griefs  of  the 
people,  had  secured  them  the  respect  and  admiration  even 
of  those  whose  creed  they  were  endeavouring  to  subvert. 
An  opinion  has  been  disseminated  in  England  that  the 
government  in  India  has  of  late  years  changed  its  policy, 
and  given  encouragement  to  the  missionary  cause;  and 
this  is  said  to  have  created  a  feeling  of  alarm  among  the 
natives  and  disposed  them  to  rebellion.  But  so  far  from 
giving  any  support  to  the  missionaries,  government  has 
omitted  no  opportunity  of  disavowing  all  connection  with 
them.  In  one  of  the  last  proclamations,  issued  a  short 
time  before  the  mutiny,  the  natives  were  informed  that 
the  missionaries  were  only  labouring  in  their  vocation,  and 
that  government  had  nothing  whatever  to  do  with  them. 
The  language  of  that  proclamation  was  calculated  to  bring 


Digitized  by 


Google 


PREFACE.  Vll 

them  into  contempt  with  the  native  community,  and  they 
had  some  reason  to  complain  of  such  unprovoked  contumely. 
About  the  same  time  an  Act  was  passed  prohibiting  the 
publication  of  obscene  books  and  pictures  in  India,  but  a 
clause  was  inserted,  especially  exempting  from  the  opera- 
tion of  the  Act  every  "representation,  sculptured,  engraved, 
or  painted  on  or  in  any  temple,  or  on  any  car  used  for  the 
conveyance  of  idols/'  With  what  colour  of  truth  can  it 
then  be  affirmed,  that  there  has  been  any  change  in  the 
policy  of  government,  either  as  it  regards  discouraging 
missionary  efforts,  or  deferring  to  the  popular  idolatry? 

But  it  may  be  affirmed  with  perfect  confidence,  that 
even  if  the  missionaries  had  received  the  most  open  and 
direct  support  from  the  state,  and  if  government  had 
laboured  to  propagate  Christianity  by  a  system  of  rewards 
and  penalties,  there  would  have  been  little  reason  to  dread 
a  mutiny,  or  even  an  insurrection.  Although  a  contrary 
opinion  be  prevalent  in  England,  it  has  been  adopted  with- 
out investigation,  and  is  contrary  to  all  historical  teaching 
in  India.  This  assertion  may  at  first  appear  paradoxical, 
but  it  is  based  on  truth,  and  it  is  fully  substantiated  by  the 
opinion  of  the  late  Sir  William  Macnaghten,  the  envoy 
at  Cabul,  one  of  the  ablest  public  men  of  his  day,  who, 
moreover,  was  never  charged  with  any  undue  partiality 
for  missionary  labours.  He  was  required  to  give  his 
opinion  on  the  question  whether  suttees  could  be  abolished 
consistently  with  the  safety  of  our  dominion.  Admitting 
the  sacrifice  of  suttee  to  be  a  religious  act  of  the  highest 
possible  merit  according  to  the  notions  of  the  Hindoos, 
"  where,"  he  inquires,  "  is  danger  to  be  apprehended  from 
the  abolition  of  it  ?  Look  to  the  genius  of  the  people  and 
their  past  history;  under  their  Moosulman  rulers  they 
tamely  endured  all  sorts  of  insults  to  their  religion  and 
violation  of  their  prejudices.  We  have  no  record  of  any 
general  or  organised  disaffection.  We  read  that  their 
temples  were  polluted  and  destroyed  and  that  many  of 
them  were  compelled  to  become  converts  to  the  creed  of 


Digitized  by 


Google 


V11L  PREFACE. 

their  oppressors.  Neither  tyranny  nor  endurance  could 
well  go  further  than  this."  Yet  the  Mahomedans  never 
lost  a  province  or  a  town  in  consequence  of  this  bigoted 
and  oppressive  course.  Nor  is  there  any  reason  to  sup- 
pose that  if  we  had  pursued  the  same  policy  —  which  we 
have  justly  and  equitably  abstained  from  doing  —  the 
result  would  have  been  of  a  different  character. 

It  has  been  affirmed,  however,  that  the  minds  of  men 
have  been  unsettled  and  disposed  to  revolt  by  some  of  the 
more  recent  movements  of  government.  But  as  these  are 
all  measures  of  improvement,  introduced  by  a  civilised  and 
enlightened  government  among  a  semibarbarous  com- 
munity, it  is  necessary  to  examine  with  the  greatest 
attention  how  far  they  can  have  contributed  to  the 
mutiny.  The  rapid  increase  of  native  schools  is  adduced 
as  one  of  these  perilous  measures.  But  indigenous  schools 
are  among  the  most  ancient  and  venerable  institutions  of 
the  country,  though  they  may  in  some  cases  have  fallen 
into  abeyance ;  it  is  difficult  then  to  suppose  that  the  effort 
to  reanimate  and  improve  them,  without  any  attempt  or 
appearance  of  an  attempt  at  proselytism,  can  have  excited 
the  people  to  insurrection.  If  some  little  disquietude  may 
have  been  felt  from  the  novelty  of  the  thing,  the  feeling 
would  gradually  have  subsided.  Far  greater  excitement 
has  heretofore  arisen,  from  deeper  causes,  which  time  had 
effectually  removed,  and  it  is  certain  that  if  there  had  been 
no  military  mutiny,  excited  by  the  fatal  folly  of  the  greased 
cartridges,  there  would  have  been  no  civil  revolt  on 
account  of  the  schools.  The  second  cause  to  which  the 
mutiny  has  been  attributed  is  the  law  which  allows  a  con- 
vert to  retain  his  patrimony  on  changing  his  creed.  But  in 
the  seat  of  the  mutiny,  in  the  north-west  provinces,  in  Bun- 
dlekund,  and  in  Central  India  no  case  has  arisen  in  which 
it  has  been  necessary  to  have  recourse  to  this  law,  and 
it  is  questionable  whether  one  man  in  ten  thousand  ever 
heard  of  its  existence.  It  never  came  palpably  before  the 
people ;  it  was  not  a  practical  or  even  a  plausible  grievance* 


Digitized  by 


Google 


PREFACE.  IX 

The  intolerant  law  of  Hindoo  inheritance  "had,  moreover, 
been  in  complete  abeyance  for  seven  centuries  during  the 
Mahomedan  governments.  The  conversions  to  the  creed 
of  the  prophet  among  the  higher  classes  under  those  pro- 
selytising rulers  were  far  more  numerous  than  under  our 
dynasty ;  and,  as  no  Hindoo  was  ever  allowed  to  occupy 
the  bench,  it  is  certain  that  no  Mahomedan  judge  would 
have  stripped  a  convert  to  his  own  religion  of  all  his  an- 
cestral property.  •"  We  have,  in  fact,  only  done  that  from 
principle  which  the  Mahomedans  did  from  fanaticism ;  we 
have  only  abrogated  a  law  which  had  fallen  into  desuetude 
for  seven  centuries,  and  which  we  had  inadvertently  and 
unintentionally  revived*  The  attempt  to  connect  the 
mutiny  with  the  renewed  abrogation  of  this  law  is  not 
only  gratuitous  but  absurd.  The  same  may  be  said  of 
the  more  recent  enactment  which  permits  the  marriage  of 
Hindoo  widows.  It  has  never  come  into  operation  in  the 
disaffected  provinces ;  and  in  Bengal,  not  more  than  six 
widows  have  availed  themselves  of  it.  Neither  was  this 
a  palpable  or  practical  grievance;  indeed  it  requires  no 
ordinary  power  of  invention  to  convert  it  into  a  grievance. 
In  Sir  George  Clerk's  minute  of  the  29th  of  March,  1858, 
a  quotation  is  made  from  a  paper  "  presented  to  the  Court 
of  Directors  by  a  very  intelligent  native" — >  which  how- 
ever comes  from  the  pen  of  a  European  —  in  which  it  is 
made  matter  of  complaint  that  "  the  regulation  touching 
the  remarrying  of  Hindoo  widows  has  been  enforced.,, 
But  it  has- never  been  enforced,  for  the  simple  reason  that 
the  time  has  been  too  short  for  enforcing  it.  The  law 
is  not  compulsory ;  it  is  simply  permissive.  It  legalises 
the  marriage  of  widows  by  removing  from  their  offspring 
the  stigma  and  the  penalty  of  bastardy.  But  is  it  con- 
ceivable that  while  the  abolition  of  female  immolation,  one 
of  the  most  cherished  rites  of  Hindooism,  created  no  revolt, 
the  simple  permission  granted  to  widows  to  enter  the  mar- 
riage state  has  so  inflamed  the  public  mind  as  to  lead  to 
this  desolating  insurrection  ? 


Digitized  by 


Google 


X  PREFACE. 

Supposing,  but  not  admitting,  that  these  measures  did 
unsettle  the  minds  of  the  natives  and  dispose  them  to  re- 
volt, they  are  still  measures  of  improvement  indispensable  to 
the  welfare  and  progress  of  the  natives  of  India,  and  we  have 
little  right  to  retain  possession  of  their  country  if  we  are 
not  prepared  to  embrace  such  measures  within  the  scope  of 
our  policy.  It  is  a  duty  from  which  we  cannot  flinch,  gra- 
dually and  prudently  to  introduce  such  ameliorations  in 
the  principles  and  practices  of  the  natives  as  shall  raise 
them  up  to  our  own  high  standard  of  excellence :  we  can- 
not keep  down  our  institutions  perpetually  to  the  level  of 
their  debased  condition.  We  must  establish  a  government 
sufficiently  powerful  to  protect  the  progress  of  improve- 
ment, or  retire  from  the  country.  We  cannot  revive  the 
obsolete  policy  of  half  a  century  ago,  and  determine  to 
keep  the  people  in  ignorance  that  we  may  keep  them  in 
subjection.  In  the  face  of  the  civilised  world,  England 
cannot  consent  to  hold  India  on  the  condition  of  dis- 
countenancing education,  and  circumscribing  liberty  of 
conscience  by  stripping  a  convert  of  his  patrimony,  and 
consigning  every  widow  to  a  state  of  perpetual  widow- 
hood. 

The  magnitude  of  the  unexpected  calamity  of  1857  has 
naturally  disturbed  the  minds  of  men  at  home,  and  led  to 
the  advocacy  of  measures  of  very  doubtful  policy.  In 
the  first  moments  of  a  panic  the  most  violent  counsels  are 
generally  considered  the  most  expedient.  Hence  we  have 
the  extreme  section  of  the  religious  world  attributing  the 
mutiny  to  the  too  great  respect  which  has  been  shown  to 
the  idolatrous  prejudices  of  the  natives,  and  recommending 
the  destruction  of  caste,  the  prohibition  of  all  superstitious 
practices,  and  the  propagation  of  Christianity  by  the  influ- 
ence of  government. 

On  the  other  hand  we  have  the  president  and  secretary 
of  the  late  Board  of  Control,  tracing  the  mutiny,  in  the 
despatch  sent  to  India  on  the  29th  of  March  last,  to  the 
too  little  regard  which  has  of  late  been  paid  to  the  religious 


Digitized  by 


Google 


PREFACE.  XI 

prejudices  of  the  people,  and  more  especially  to  the  rapid 
impulse  given  to  "  educational  schemes/'  and  advocating 
measures  which  would  lead  to  the  interruption  of  all 
progress,  if  not  to  the  extinction  of  education*  India, 
however,  is  not  to  be  governed  by  the  favourite  partialities 
or  prejudices  of  either  of  these  parties :  we  must  discover 
some  middle  course,  equally  removed  from  the  extreme 
views  of  both,  if  we  would  combine  the  consolidation  of 
the  empire,  with  the  elevation  of  its  inhabitants. 

It  is  equally  contrary  to  all  sound  policy  and  to  the 
interests  of  Christian  truth,  that  Christianity  should  be 
propagated  in  India  by  the  direct  instrumentality,  or  the 
indirect  aid,  of  Government.  From  every  attempt  to 
evangelise  the  country,  it  is  the  bounden  duty  of  Govern- 
ment most  conscientiously  and  most  scrupulously  to  ab- 
stain. The  spread  of  the  Gospel  is  the  exclusive  province 
of  the  missionary,  and  he  must  not  appear  as  the  delegate 
of  the  state.  Dr.  Carey's  remark  when  the  subject  was 
once  introduced,  should  ever  be  held  in  remembrance. 
-J<  Whatever  government  may  do,  let  it  not  touch  my  work; 
it  can  only  succeed  in  making  men  hypocrites :  I  wish  to 
make  them  Christians."  At  the  same  time  it  would  be 
unworthy  of  a  great,  powerful,  and  enlightened  govern- 
ment to  shrink,  as  the  government  of  India  has  hitherto 
done,  from  avowing  its  Christian  character.  It  is  to  be 
lamented  that  the  public  authorities  in  India  have  been 
too  much  disposed  to  keep  their  religion  in  the  back-ground, 
as  if  they  were  ashamed  or  afraid  to  acknowledge  it  in  the 
presence  of  the  heathen.  This  timid  policy  has  not  pre- 
vented the  torrent  of  an  exterminating  mutiny,  and  this  of 
itself  furnishes  a  strong  argument  for  the  adoption  of  a 
more  dignified  course.  It  is  a  fallacy  to  suppose  that  we 
shall  lose  the  confidence  of  the  natives  by  the  manly 
avowal  of  our  creed.  The  Hindoos  and  Mahomedans  are 
men  of  such  intensejceligious  feeling  that  they  cannot  be  ex- 
pected to  entertain  any  respect  for  those  who  do  not  manifest 
the  same  strength  of  attachment  to  their  own  religion. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


XI I  FKBPACE. 

They  cannot  believe  in  the  existence  of  religious  indifference 
in  a  government,  and  our  profession  of  perfect  neutrality 
has  only  tended  to  bring  our  motives  under  suspicion, 
and  to  complicate  our  relations  with  them.  The  soundest 
policy  is  to  adopt  a  just  and  fearless  course ;  to  tell  our 
native  subjects  that  the  government  of  the  Grown  is  a 
Christian  government,  and  regulated  by  Christian  prin- 
ciples, that,  although  it  believes  Christianity  to  be  the  only 
true  religion,  and  desires  to  see  it  prevail  throughout 
India,  yet,  in  obedience  to  its  principles,  it  will  employ 
neither  force  nor  fraud  to  convert  its  subjects,  but  will 
continue  to  allow  them  the  fullest  liberty  of  conscience, 
and  to  permit  every  man  to  profess  and  practise  his  own 
religion  without  any  interference. 

With  respect  to  the  system  of"  Grants  in  Aid"  for  schools 
without  distinction  of  creed  or  caste,  however  vehemently 
it  may  be  denounced  by  the  public  authorities  in  India 
and  in  England,  it  is  based  on  the  soundest,  the  safest, 
and  the  most  equitable  principle.  It  will  not  be  forgotten 
on  this  occasion  that  there  is  scarcely  a  measure  of  Indian 
improvement,  during  the  last  sixty  years,  which  has  not 
encountered  the  same  opposition,  and  that  this  opposition 
has,  after  all,  had  its  use  in  establishing  the  importance  as 
well  as  necessity  of  those  reforms,  and  rendering  their 
triumph  more  signal.  The  present  repudiation  of  these 
grants  is,  therefore,  scarcely  to  be  regretted.  The  system 
was  first  established  by  Sir  Charles  Wood's  memorable 
despatch  of  the  19th  of  July,  1854,  which  it  is  now  pro- 
posed to  neutralise,  and  which  provided  that  grants  should 
be  made  by  Government  to  schools  under  private  manage- 
ment, for  the  exclusive  object  of  secular  instruction ;  that 
the  public  inspectors,  at  their  periodical  visits,  should 
confine  their  examination  to  the  various  branches  of  se- 
cular knowledge,  and  carefully  abstain  from  any  inquiries 
regarding  the  character  of  the  religious  instruction  given 
in  them,  which  was  to  be  left  to  the  unfettered  choice  of 
the  parents  and  masters.     The  grants  were  to  be  bestowed 


Digitized  by 


Google 


PREFACE.  Xlll 

without  any  reference  to  the  creed  of  the  grantees,  and  to 
be  given  equally  to  the  Mahomedan  mouluvee,  the  Hindoo 
pundit,  and  the  Christian  missionary.  It  would  be  difficult 
to  imagine  a  more  unexceptionable  scheme,  or  one  more 
admirably  adapted  to  the  general  diffusion  of  knowledge 
without  compromising  Government  on  the  question  of 
religion.  It  is,  also,  the  only  plan  by  which  education  can 
ever  be  diffused  among  the  people.  It  is  reprobated  as  a 
breach  of  neutrality,  but  where  assistance  is  offered  equally 
and  equitably  to  all,  and  the  continuance  of  it  depends  not 
on  the  question  of  religion  but  of  efficiency,  it  is  difficult 
to  discover  any  violation  of  the  principle*  To  deprive  the 
country  of  all  chance  of  popular  education,  by  abolishing 
the  system,  because  some  portion  of  the  public  funds  may 
fall  to  missionary  schools,  would  be  to  sacrifice  the  welfare 
of  the  people  to  the  support  of  a  mere  doctrine. 

The  .Proclamation  issued  by  the  Queen  on  assuming  the 
government  of  India,  prohibits  the  interference  of  the 
public  officers  with  the  belief  of  the  people.  The  prohibi- 
tion has  reference  necessarily  to  their  official  character,  and 
the  principle  embodied  in  it  is  judicious  and  sound.  For 
the  last  fifty  years  it  has  been  the  rule  in  India  that  the 
functionaries  of  Government  should  abstain  from  using 
their  official  influence  for  the  diffusion  of  Christianity 
among  the  natives,  and  the  Proclamation  simply  incor- 
porates the  ancient  rule  with  the  new  government.  At 
the  same  time  the  public  servants  have  always  been  con- 
sidered at  liberty,  in  their  private  and  individual  capacity, 
to  aid  the  promotion  of  Christian  truth.  The  line  of  dis- 
tinction was  first  defined  under  the  government  of  Lord 
Minto,  and  it  has  been  distinctly  recognised  under  every 
succeeding  administration.  It  was  in  the  year  1808  that 
the  Serampore  missionaries  had  resolved  to  solicit  sub- 
scriptions for  the  translating  and  printing  of  the  Scriptures 
in  the  languages  of  India,  and  Dr.  Marshman  waited  on 
Lord  Minto  to  request  his  support.  He  asked  time  to 
consider  the   proposal,  and   consult  his  colleagues.     At 


Digitized  by 


Google 


XIV  PREFACE. 

the  next  interview  he  said  that  if  he  could  possibly  step 
out  of  himself,  and  separate  his  public  from  his  private 
character,  he  would  at  once  head  the  list,  but  it  was  con- 
sidered unadvisable  for  the  head  of  the  Government  to 
appear  in  such  an  undertaking.  Among  his  counsellors 
the  most  eminent  and  influential  was  Mr.  Edmonstone, 
the  secretary  to  Government,  but  he  was  not  deemed  to 
lie  under  any  such  restriction,  and  put  his  name  down  at 
once  for  a  subscription  of.  thirty  pounds.  Three  years 
after,  the  Auxiliary  Bible  Society  was  established  in  Gal* 
cutta,  and  its  first  meeting  was  held  in  the  hall  of  the 
college  of  Fort  William,  a  government  institution,  and  a 
judge  of  the  supreme  native  court,  and  a  secretary  to 
Government,  were  respectively  appointed  president  and 
vice-president  of  the  Society.  The  government  of  Lord 
Minto  was  distinguished  by  its  opposition  to  missionary 
efforts ;  and,  in  the  year  succeeding  the  establishment  of 
this  Society,  placed  eight  missionaries  under  a  sentence  of 
banishment,  of  whom  only  one  was  enabled  to  remain  in 
the  country.  Even  in  that  anti-missionary  age,  and 
under  that  anti-missionary  government,  all  the  subordi- 
nate members  of  Government  were  considered  at  liberty 
to  assist  the  progress  of  Christian  truth,  as  private  indi- 
viduals, and  it  was  only  the  head  of  the  Government,  the 
representative  of  the  Crown,  who  was  deemed  to  be  de- 
barred from  taking  any  share  in  it.  The  principle  thus 
established  has  been  ever  since  considered  as  the  rule  and 
practice  in  all  questions  connected  with  the  diffusion 
of  Christianity.  Lord  William  Bentinck  systematically 
abstained  from  subscribing  to  any  missionary  object  while 
Governor-General,  and  it  was  not  till  he  had  laid  down 
the  government  that  he  sent  Dr.  Marshman  fifty  pounds 
to  testify  his  esteem  for  the  labours  of  the  Serampore 
missionaries,  "  as  soon  as  he  was  at  liberty  to  act  in  his 
private  capacity."  In  like  manner  Lord  Dalhousie,  while 
his  purse  was  open  to  every  benevolent  object,  withheld 
his  subscriptions  only  from  those  institutions  which  were 


Digitized  by 


Google 


PREFACE.  XV 

established  with  the  direct  object  of  proselytism.  But 
neither  did  Lord  William  Bentinck  nor  Lord  Dalhousie 
entrench  on  the  long  established  liberty  of  every  subor- 
dinate officer  to  encourage  the  spread  of  Christianity  by 
his  subscriptions  as  a  private  citizen,  while  at  the  same 
time  every  exercise  of  official  influence  was  strictly  inter- 
dieted.  It  is  evidently  in  the  spirit  of  this  liberality  that 
the  terms  of  the  Proclamation  have  been  selected.  If  at 
any  future  period  any  attempt  should  be  made  to  abridge 
this  freedom,  and  a  Christian  officer  in  India  should  be 
prohibited  from  taking  the  same  interest  in  the  baptism  of 
a  Hindoo  convert  which  a  Mahomedan  officer  is  freely 
allowed  to  take  in  the  circumcision  of  a  convert  to  Is- 
lamism,  it  will  be  the  duty  of  the  people  and  the  parliament 
of  England  to  interpose  their  authority,  and  to  prevent  so 
invidious  and  unjustifiable  an  innovation. 

The  Author  desires  to  embrace  this  opportunity  of 
recording  his  grateful  acknowledgments  to  the  Duke  of 
Portland  for  having  given  him  access  to  the  papers  of 
Lord  William  Bentinck,  relative  to  the  abolition  of  suttees, 
and  thereby  enabling  him  to  present  a  more  circumstantial 
notice  of  that  great  act  of  humanity  than  has  yet  appeared. 
He  has  also  been  laid  under  the  greatest  obligations  to 
Lord  Glenelg  for  access  to  the  valuable  papers  of  the 
late  Mr.  Charles  Grant.  To  the  late  President  of  the 
Board  of  Control,  Sir  Charles  Wood,  and  to  the  now  extinct 
Court  of  Directors,  he  desires  thus  publicly  to  acknowledge 
his  gratitude  for  the  liberty  they  granted  him  to  consult 
the  records  of  the  India  House. 


JOHN  C.  MARSHMAN. 


Khhsiwgtow  Palace  Gardens, 
Jan.  25th,  1859. 


VOL.  I.  a 

Digitized  by  LjOOQIC 


Digitized  by 


Google 


CONTENTS 


OF 


THE    FIRST    VOLUME. 


CHAPTER  L 

Page 

1761.    Parentage  of  William  Carey  T 

He  is  apprenticed  to  a  Shoemaker  ....  2 

His  Progress  in  Knowledge                                     *            -  2 

1777.    His  religious  Exercises  of  Mind    ....  3 

Commencement  of  his  Career  as  a  Minister            -  4 

1783.    His  Marriage  and  Difficulties         ....  6 

1786.  He  removes  to  Moulton     -            -            -            -            -  7 
Course  of  Life  at  Moulton  8 

1787.  First  Introduction  to  Mr.  Fuller    ....  9 
Origin  of  his  missionary  Ardour    -            -             -  9- 
His  missionary  Views  encouraged  by  Mr.  Potts      -  10 

1789.    Compiles  a  Pamphlet  on  Missions              -            -  11 
Mr.  Carey's  Removal  to  Leicester,  and  the  Advantages  he 

enjoyed  there              -            -            -            -  1 1 

Introduction  to  the  Rev.  T.  Robinson         -            -  12 

Endeavours  to  purify  the  Church  -             -             •  13 

Continued  Ardour  for  Missions     -            -             -  14 

1792.    His  Sermon  on  Missions,  and  its  Effect     -            -  15 

Formation  of  the  Baptist  Missionary  Society,  2nd  Oct.  1792  16 

Indifference  of  Churches  and  Ministers  to  Missions            -  17 

Indifference  to  Missions  in  the  Church  of  Scotland             -  18 

Attention  of  the  Baptist  Miss.  Society  directed  to  Bengal  -  19 

First  Establishment  of  Protestant  Missions  in  India           -  20 

First  Protestant  Mission  in  Bengal  by  Kiernandier            -  21 

General  Use  of  Portuguese  in  Bengal       -            -  21 

Kiernandier's  second  Marriage      -            -            -  22 

a  2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


XV1U  CONTENTS   OF 

P*ge 

1792.  His  Liberality 22 

His  Misfortunes  and  Flight  -  -  -  23 

Cause  of  his  Embarrassment  -  -  -  23 

Excellences  of  his  Character  -  -  -  24 

Characteristics  of  his  Mission        -  -  -  24 

Efforts  of  the  Christian  Knowledge  Society  to  keep  up  the 

Mission  -  -  -  -  -  25 

The  Rev.  David  Brown     -  -  -  -  -  25 

Mr.  Charles  Grant's  Exertions  for  the  Improvement  of 

India 27 

Mr.  John  Thomas  goes  to  Calcutta  in  1783  -  -  28 

His  second  Visit  in  1786 ;  engages  in  Missions     -  29 

Mr.  Thomas's  apparent  Success ;  Defects  of  his  Character  30 

Mr.  Grant  projects  a  Missionary  Scheme  -  •  31 

Endeavours  to  push  it  in  England  -  -  33 

Project  taken  up  with  Zeal  by  Mr.  Grant  on  his  Return  to 

England         ------  34 

Lukewarmness  of  influential  Men  in  England        -  -  35 

Renewal  of  the  Company's  Charter  -  -  -  36 

Mr.  "Wilberforce's  Resolutions  in  the  House  of  Commons  -  37 

Review  of  Proceedings  in  India     -  -  -  38 

Early  Patronage  of  Missions  -  39-. 

*  ■■  Effect  of  political  Power  on  public  Morals  in  India  -  39 

Character  of  English  Society  in  India        -  -  40 

Gradual  Change  in  the  Court  of  Directors  -  42 

The  Directors  reject  the  Missionary  Clause  -  42 

1793.  Debate  in  the  Court  of  Proprietors  -  -  43 
Reflections  on  these  Proceedings  -  -  -  -  46 
The  Missionary  Clause  lost  in  the  House  of  Commons  -  48 
Defeat  of  the  Mission  Scheme  of  Mr.  Grant           -  49 


CHAPTER  II. 

Mr.  Thomas's    Introduction  to    the   Baptist    Missionary 

Society  -  -  -  -  -  -       51 

Mr.  Carey's  Services  are  accepted  -  -  -  52  * 

Reluctance  of  Mrs.  Carey  to  accompany  him  -  53 

Farewell  Services  -  -  -  -  54 

Mode  of  embarking  for  India  discussed    •  -  -  55 

Embark  on  the  "  Oxford,"  and  are  expelled  from  her  -      56 

Resort  of  unlicensed  Europeans  to  India  prohibited  -       57 

Their  Proceedings  on  being  expelled  from  the  Vessel  -       58 
They  obtain  a  Passage  in  a  Danish  Vessel              -  60 

Mr.  Carey  removes  to  Bandel,  and  then  to  Manicktolah  -      61 


Digitized  by 


Google 


TUB  FIBST  VOLUME.  XIX 

Page 

1794.  Mr.  Carey's  Distress          -            -            -            -            -  63^ 
Mr.  Carey  calls  on  the  Rev.  David  Brown              -  64 
His  Abode  in  the  Soonderbuns      •            -            -            -  66 
Mr.  Carey's  Removal  to  Mudnabatty         -            -            -  67 
Mr.  Carey's  Occupations  there       -            -            -  68 

1795.  Mr.  Carey  proposes  to  print  his  Translation          -  70 
First  Printing  in  Bengalee             -  7Q_ 
Hostility  of  the  East  India  Company  to  the  Settlement  of 

Europeans  in  India    -            -            -            -  73 

1796.  Mr.  Fountain  joins  Mr.  Carey  -  -  -  75 
Mr.  Carey's  Factory  not  flourishing  -  -  77 
Mr.  Carey  proposes  a  Moravian  Settlement            -  78 

1797.  Mr.  Carey  prepares  to  print  his  Translation  -  -  79_ 
Mr.  Charles  Grant's  Treatise  on  Indian  Improvement  -  80 
It  fails  to  produce  any  immediate  Effect  -  -  82 
Mr.  Grant's  Labours  for  the  Improvement  of  European 

Society  in  India         -            -            -            -  83 

1798.  Sir  John  Shore  quits  the  Government  of  India ;  bis  Cha- 

racter-           ......  86 

Succeeded  by  Lord  Mornington     -            -            -  86 
Mr.  Thomas's  Movements  -            -            -            -             -87 

1799.  Mr.  Carey  labours  unsuccessfully  for  nearly  Six  Years      -  89  - 
Baptist  Missionary  Society  engage  more  Missionaries        -  91 
Four  Missionaries  prepare  to  embark         -            -            -  92 

i  Notices  of  Mr.  Ward  before  his  Missionary  Career  begins  -  93 

!   He  edits  the  "  Derby  Mercury  "  and  other  Journals           -  95 

Enters  on  ministerial  Pursuits       -            -            -            -  96 

He  is  placed  under  the  Tuition  of  Dr.  Fawcett      -  97 

Offers  himself  as  a  Missionary       -            -            -            -  98 

Early  Life  and  Pursuits  of  Mr.  Marshroan              -  99 

Mr.  Marshman's  defective  Education         -            -            -  100 

His  astonishing  Thirst  for  Reading            -                         -  100 

Employed  in  London,  by  Mr.  Cator,  a  Bookseller  -             -  102 

Returns  to  Westbury  Leigh           -            -            -            -  104 

His  religious  Experience  -            -            -            -            -  105 

His  Marriage        -            -            -            -            -             -  106 

Removes  to  Bristol            -----  107 

Engages  in  the  Mission     .....  107 

Provision  by  the  Society  for  the  Support  of  the  Four 

Missionaries  -  -  -  -  -  -108 

They  embark  in  the  "  Criterion  "  for  Calcutta        -            -  109 
Arrive  in  the  Hooghly      -            -             -             -            -111 

Proceed  to  Serampore       -  -  -  -  -111 


Digitized  by 


Google 


XX  CONTENTS  OF 


CHAPTER  m. 

Page 

1799.  The  Town  of  Serampore  -  -  -  -  -  112 
i  The  Missionaries  are  ordered  to  quit  India  -  -  114 
'                      Kindness  of  the  Governor  of  Serampore    -  -  -  114 

Lord  Wellesley  permits  them  to  remain     -  -  -  115 

Position  of  the  Missionaries  at  Serampore  -  .116 

Death  of  Mr.  Grant           -            -            -  -  -  117 

Discussions  regarding  their  future  Course  -  -  117 

Lord  Wellesley's  Views  on  the  Press         -  -  -  1 19 

Mr.  Ward  proceeds  to  Mudnabatty             -  -  -  120 

Mr.  Carey  resolves  to  remove  to  Serampore  -  •  121^ 

Mr.  Carey's  Arrival  there  -            -            -  -  -  124  • 

1800.  Arrangements  of  the  Mission  Family         -  -   .  -  125 
Religious  Ceremonial  in  Calcutta  -            -  -  -  125 

The  same  Subject             -            -            -  -  -  126 

Purchase  of  a  House  in  Serampore  -  -  -128^ 

Establishment  of  the  Press            -            -  -  129 

Establishment  of  Boarding  Schools            -  -  -  131 

Printing  the  first  Tract     -            -             -  -  -  132 

Proposals  for  printing  the  Bengalee  New  Testament  -  132 

Death  of  Mr.  Fountain      -            -            -  -  -  134 

Missionary  Labours  at  Serampore              *  -  -  134 

First  Candidate  disappoints  the  Missionaries  -  -  135 

Krishnu  Pall,  the  first  Convert      -            -  -  -  137 

Mr.  Thomas's  Aberration  of  Mind              -  -  -  138 

Disturbance  in  Serampore              -            -  -  -  138 

Baptism  of  the  first  Convert           -            -  -  -  139 

Mr.  Fernandez      -  -  -  -  -  -140 

Completion  of  the  New  Testament  at  Press  -  -  141 

Necessity  of  a  College  for  the  Civilians     -  142_, 

Defective  Education  of  the  Civilians          -  -  -  142 

^                     Lord  Wellesley  establishes  the  College  of  Fort  William    -  143 

Nature  and  Studies  of  the  College              -  -  -  144 

1801.  Defence  of  the  College       -            -            -  -  -  146 
Bengalee  first  cultivated  in  the  College      -  147 

I                     Mr.  Carey  appointed  a  Teacher  in  that  Institution  -  148x 

Religious  Tests  in  it          -             -             -  -  -  149 

Capture  of  Serampore  by  the  English        -  -  -  150 

Death  of  Mr.  Brunsdon      -  -  -  -  -151 

Question  of  renaming  the  Converts            -  -  -  151 

First  itinerating  Journey  -             -             -  -  -  152 

Death  and  Character  of  Mr.  Thomas          -  -  -  1 53 

Baptism  of  the  First  Kayust          -             -  -  -  1 54 

1802.  Effect  produced  by  the  Tracts       -            -  -  -  156 


Digitized  by 


Google 


THE  FIRST  VOLUME.  XXI 

P*ge 

1802.    Government  Patronage  of  Ealee  Ghat       -  -  -  157 

Abolition  of  the  Sacrifice  of  Children  at  Sangor    -  -  157     * 

First  Publication  of  Bengalee  Works         -  -  -  159   ^ 

Plan  for  educating  native  Christian  Children         -  -  160 

Visit  to  the  Heresiarch,  Ram-doolal  -  -  -  161 

Marriage  of  Mr.  Ward ;  Dissenting  Marriages  in  India  -  162 

First  Visit  of  Mahomedans  to  Serampore  -  -  -  163 

Plan  for  educating  the  Children  of  Missionaries     -  -  164 

Court  of  Directors  order  the  Abolition  of  the  College  -  165~> 

Lord  Wellesley's  Annoyance  -  -  •  -  167 

Lord  Wellesley's  Arguments  in  favour  of  it  -  -  168 

Lord  Wellesley  prolongs  the  College         -  -  -  169 

Reflections  on  these  Events  -  -  -  -  1 70 

Mr.  Marshman's  Visit  to  Jessore   •  -  -  -  171 

First  Movement  for  building  a  Chapel  in  Calcutta  -  174 


CHAPTER  IV. 

1803.  Baptism  of  the  first  Brahmin         -            -            -  -  176   * 
First  Preaching  in  Calcutta           -            -            -  -  178 
Arrival  of  Mr.  Chamberlain           -            -            -  -  178 
Punch-cutting  at  Serampore          -            -            -  -  178  4 
Improved  Edition  of  the  Bengalee  New  Testament  -  179 
First  Marriage  among  the  Converts           -            -  -  180  * 
The  Churruk  and  Suttees  at  Serampore    -            -  -  182 
Native  Preachers               -            -            -            -  -  182 
Mr.  Marshman's  Second  Journey  to  Jessore           -  -  183 
Rev.  D.  Brown  removes  to  Serampore       -            -  -  184 
Burial  of  the  first  Christian           -            -            -  -  185 
Mr.  Ward's  Visit  to  Dinagepore     -            -            -  -  187 
Mr.  Marshman's  Missionary  Tour  to  Jessore          -  -  188 

1804.  The  College  of  Fort  William         -            -            -  -  190 
Excitement  created  by  the  Thesis  at  the  College  Disputa- 
tions             -            -            -            -            -  -  191  -L 

Plan  of  Translations  at  Serampore             -            -  -  193 

Plan  of  Subordinate  Missionary  Stations  -  195 

Literary  Labours  of  Mr.  Carey     -  197  * 
Mr.  Carey's  Address  to  Lord  Wellesley  at  the  College 

Commemoration         -----  197— 

Mr.  Buchanan's  Support  of  Missionary  Labours    -  -  200 

Review  of  the  Mission  at  the  End  of  four  Years    -  -  202 
The  moral  State  of  Society  as  exhibited  in  the  Civil  Fund 

Question        -            -            -            -            -  -  202 


Digitized  by 


Google 


XXli  CONTENTS  OF 

Page 
1805.   Bow  Bazar  Chapel.    Reference  to  former  Churches  in 

Calcutta         ......  204 

St  John's  Church              .....  206 

The  Mission  Church          .....  207 

The  Bow  Bazar  Chapel    -            -            -            -            -  207 

Principle  of  Missionary  Economy  adopted  at  Serampore   -  208 

Mr.  Fuller's  Objections  to  it          -             -             -            -  210 

Arrival  of  Four  Missionaries         -            -            -            -  212 

Purchase  of  other  Premises           -            -            -            -  213 

Death  of  Colonel  Bie        -            -            -            -            -  213 

Open  Communion  in  the  Church  -            -            -            -  214 

Proposed  Mission  to  China            -            -             -             -  215 

Lord  Wellesley's  Retirement.    Remarks  on  it       -            -  216 
Mr.  Fuller  disapproves  of  the  Missionaries'  Address  to 

Lord  Wellesley          -            -            -            -            -  219 

Publication  of  Sanscrit  Works      -  -  -  .220 

Immolation  of  Widows      -            -            -            -            -  221 


CHAPTER   V. 

Lord  Cornwallis,  Governor-General           ...  224 

His  Death             -            -             -            -            -            -  225 

Missionary  Aspect  of  1805            -  226 

Principles  of  the  Missionary  Enterprise    ...  227 

Progress  of  the  Translations          ....  230 

Translation  Memoir          .....  232 

Remodelling  of  the  Memoir           ....  234 

Subscriptions  to  the  Translations  ....  235 

Mr.  Fuller's  Observations              ....  237 

State  of  Religion  in  India  -----  238 

Proposed  Ecclesiastical  Establishment       ...  239 
Mr.  Buchanan's  Views  on  that  Subject      -            -            -241 

Reflections  on  it  -            -            -            -            -            -  242 

1806.    Mr.  Marshman  commences  the  Study  of  Chinese  -            -  244 

The  Rev.  Henry  Martyn  -----  245 

Obstacle  to  the  Formation  of  Out-stations  -  247 

First  Connection  of  Government  with  Juggernath              -  253 

The  Question  of  Indian  Civilisation  under  Sir  G.  Barlow  -  255 

Translation  of  the  Sanscrit  Testament       ...  256 

And  of  the  Ramayun         -----  256 

Native  Preaching  in  Calcutta        -  258 

Arrival  of  Mr.  Chater  and  Mr.  Robinson  -  259 

Opposition  of  Government             ....  259 

The  Vellore  Mutiny          -            -            -            -            -  261 


Digitized  by 


Google 


THE   FIRST   VOLUME.  XXU1 

Page 

1806.    Causes  of  the  Vellore  Mutiny        ....  263 

Effect  produced  on  Government  by  the  Mutiny     -             -  266 

Restrictions  on  the  Serampore  Missionaries            -             -  268 

Proceedings  against  Mr.  Chater  and  Mr.  Robinson            -  269 

Further  Proceedings  regarding  Mr.  Chater  and  Mr.  Robinson  270 

Mr.  Fuller's  Exertions  in  England             ...  274 

Native  Converts  of  the  Year          ....  282 
Rule  regarding  the  Case  of  a  Hindoo  Wife  and  her  Christian 

Husband        -            -            -            -            -            -  284 


CHAPTER  VI. 

1807.    Remodelling  of  the  College  of  Fort  William  -  -  286 

Establishment  of  Haileybury         -  -  -  -  286 

Mission  to  Burmah  .....  287 

Chapel  in  the  Chitpore-road  ....  289 

Mr.  Carey  receives  the  Diploma  of  Doctor  of  Divinity       -  290- 

Bow  Bazar  Chapel  -  -  -  -  -  291 

Mr.  Buchanan's  literary  Intelligence  -  -  -  291 

Mr.  Buchanan's  British  Propaganda  ...  293 

Nathaniel  Sabat   ------  295 

Mr.  Buchanan's  Proceedings         -  297 

Burman  Mission  ------  298 

Mr.  Marshman  collects  Funds  for  the  Bow  Bazar  Chapel  -  299 

Death  of  Mr.  Creighton  and  Mr.  W.  Grant  -  -  300 

Death  of  Mrs.  Carey         -  -  -  -  -301- 

Internal  State  of  the  Mission         ....  302 

Lord  Minto  Governor-General      -  304 

Lord  Minto's  Character    -----  306 

An  obnoxious  Tract  leads  to  the  Opposition  of  Government  307 

The  Government  addresses  the  Governor  of  Serampore     -  309 

The  Explanations  of  the  Missionaries        -  -  -  310 

Proceedings  of  Government  -  -  -  -  311 

Orders  of  Government  to  suppress  Missionary  Efforts       -  313 

Preaching  prohibited,  and  the  Press  ordered  to  Calcutta    -  314 
Refections  on  this  Order  -            -            -            -            -316 

Natural  Result  of  this  Order         -  -  -  -318 

Proceedings  of  the  Missionaries    -  -  -  -  319 

Interview  with  Lord  Minto  -  -  -  -  321 

Memorial  of  the  Missionaries  to  Government  -  323 

Revocation  of  the  Press  Order      -  326 

Gratitude  of  the  Missionaries        -  -  -  327 

Communication  on  this  Subject  to  the  Court  of  Directors  -  328 

Reply  of  the  Indian  Authorities    -  330 
VOL.  I.                                          b 


Digitized  by 


Google 


XXIV  CONTENTS   OF 


CHAPTER  VIL 

Page 

1807.    Hostility  to  Missions  in  England  ....  333 

Mr.  Twining's  Pamphlet   .....  334 

Reply  to  Mr.  Twining  by  Mr.  Owen          -             -  335 

Major  Scott  Waring's  Attack                                 #-  337 

Mr.  Fuller's  Exertions       -----  345 

Mr.  Fuller's  "Apology"  for  Christian  Missions     -             -  347 

Major  Scott  Waring's  Rejoinder  -             -             -             -  349 

Mr.  Fuller's  second  Apology         -             -             -             .  353 

The  Bengal  Officer's  Pamphlet      -                          -             *  354 

Mr.  Fuller's  Reply            -            -                         -            -  361 

Reply  by  an  anonymous  Writer    -            -            -            -  364 

Rejoinder  of  the  Bengal  Officer     -  366 

Lord  Teignmouth's  Pamphlet        -             -             -             -  368 


CHAPTER  VIII. 

1808.  Position  of  the  Mission  at  the  beginning  of  1808  -  -  380 
Second  Capture  of  Serampore  by  the  English  -  -  381 
Lord  Minto's  Patronage  of  the  Chinese  Class  -  -  383 
Contemplated  Mission  to  Chittagong  and  Pooree  -  -  384 
Mission  to  Bootan  .....  385 
Differences  with   Mr.  Brown  relative  to  the  Translation 

Fund  -  -  -  -  -  -  386 

Mr.  Marshman's  endeavours  to  collect  for  the  Translations 

in  Calcutta    ------  388 

Interview  of  Dr.  Carey  and  Mr.  Marshman  with  Lord  Minto  389^ 

Result  in  England  of  the  Persecution  of  1807         -  -  391 

Mr.  Grant's  Opinion  on  the  Position  of  the  Mission  -  393 

Mr.  Fuller's  Letter  to  Serampore  -  -  -  -  394 

Discussions  with  the  London  Missionary  Society  -  -  395 

Mr.  Marshman  censured  for  his  Chinese  Translation  -  396 

Dr.  Carey's  second  Marriage         -  397  x 

The  Settlement  Church  at  Serampore        -  -  -  398 

Difficulties  in  the  Management  of  the  Mission  -  400 

Remarks  on  these  Difficulties         ...  -  402 

New  Constitution  of  the  Mission  -  -  -  -  403 

Extracts  from  the  Letters  of  the  Missionaries        -  -  404 

Mr.  Fuller's  Collections  for  the  Translations  -  -  406 

1809.  Opening  of  the  Bow  Bazar  Chapel  -  -  -  406 
Renewed  Missionary  Attempt  in  Bootan  -  -  -  408 
Serious  Illness  of  Dr.  Carey          -            -            -            -  410 


Digitized  by 


Google 


THE    FIRST   VOLUME.  XXV 

1809.  Mission  to  Rangoon  .....  412 
Employment  of  Missionaries  raised  up  in  the  Country  -  413 
Missionaries  furnished  hy  the  Church  in  Calcutta-  -  414 
Connection  of  the  Government  of  India  with  Juggernath  -  415 
Eemodelling  of  the  Corresponding  Committee  of  the  Bible 

Society          ......  418 

Report  of  the  Progress  of  the  Translations             -            -  419 

Ten  Years*  Report  of  the  Mission  -            -            -            -  421 

1810.  Establishment  of  the  Benevolent  Institution  -  -  4?2 
Progress  and  Difficulties  of  the  Institution  -  -  425 
Influence  of  the  Opposition  of  Government  to  Missions  -  426 
Favourable  Change  in  Government  ...  428 
Mission  to  the  North-west  ....  429 
Friendly  Correspondence  with  Government  -  -  430 
Character  and  Personal  Labours  of  the  Missionaries  -  432 
The  Literary  Coterie  in  Calcutta  ....  434 
Mr.  Ward's  Work  on  the  History,  literature,  and  My- 
thology of  the  Hindoos           ....  442 

CHAPTER  IX. 

181 1.  Establishment  of  the  Auxiliary  Bible  Society  in  Calcutta  -  445 
Assistance  given  to  the  Society  by  the  Serampore  Mis- 
sionaries       ------  447 

Feelings  of  Government  on  Missions         -            -             -  448 

Lord  Minto  and  the  Benevolent  Institution            -             .  449 

Opposition  to  the  Benevolent  Institution  -            -            -  451 

Benefit  arising  from  it                    -            -            -            -  454 

Relinquishment  of  the  Mission  to  Bootan  ...  455 

The  Advantage  of  raising  up  Missionaries  in  the  Country  457 

Reflections  on  the  Subject              ....  458 

Church  at  Serampore  returns  to  strict  Communion             -  460 

Differences  between  the  senior  and  junior  Missionaries      -  461 

Dr.  Carey's  Estimate  of  Mr.  Marsbman's  Character           -  463 

Mr.  Marshman's  Father     -----  464 

Mr.  Marshman  receives  a  Doctor's  Diploma           -            -  465 

1812.  The  Printing  Office  is  consumed  by  Fire  -  -  -  468 
Restoration  of  the  Office,  and  Resumption  of  Labour  -  470 
Sympathy  of  Friends  in  India  -  -  •  -"471 
Efforts  to  repair  the  Loss  in  England  -  -  -  471 
Mr.  Fuller's  Remarks  -  -  -  -  -  473 
Revival  of  the  Opposition  of  Government  -  -  473 
Death  of  Mr.  Mardon  -  -  -  -  -  474 
Missionaries  raised  up  in  India     ....  475 


Digitized  by 


Google 


XXVI  CONTENTS   OF   THE   FIRST   VOLUME. 

Page 
1812.    Mr.  Fuller's  acknowledgment  of  the  Liberality  of  the  Seram- 

pore  Missionaries       -----  475 

Engagement  of  Mr.  Thompson      -  476 

Rangoon  Mission  ------  476 

Mission  to  Agra   -  -  -  -  -  478 

Death  of  the  Rev.  D.  Brown         -  -  -  -  481 

Mr.  Judson's  jlrrival  in  Calcutta  -  482 

Mr.  Robert  Ralston's  Exertions  for  the  Mission  in  America  482 

First  Efforts  for  Indian  Missions  in  America         -  -  483 

Growing  Opposition  of  Government  to  Missions    -  -  485 

Mr.  Judson's  Difficulties  -----  486 

Arrival  of  the  "  Harmony  "  with  Six  other  Missionaries    -  488 

Mr.  Martin's  Severity  towards  the  Missionaries     -  -  489 

Two  of  the  Missionaries  escape  to  Bombay  -  -  491 

Proceedings  against  Mr.  Law  son  and  Mr.  Johns    -  -  492 

Mr.  Robinson  embarks  for  Java,  but  returns  -  -  494 

Dr.  Marshman's  Correspondence  with  Mr.  Ricketts  -  495 

Close  of  the  Correspondence,  and  its  Object  -  -  497 

Lord  Minto  determines  to  deport  the  Three  Missionaries  -  498 

The  Missionaries  are  summoned  to  the  Police-office  -  499 

Mr.  Lawson  is  placed  in  Confinement        -  -  -  500 

Dr.  Marshman  solicits  a  private  Interview  with  Lord  Minto, 

and  is  refused  -----  501 

Expulsion  of  Mr.  Johns  from  India  ...  503 

Remarks  on  this  Transaction         -  .  .  -  504 

Mr.  Fuller's  adverse  Opinion  -  505 

Opinion  of  the  Serampore  Missionaries  on  this  Opposition-  508 


Digitized  by 


Google 


HISTOKY 


OP 


THE   SERAMPORE   MISSION. 


CHAPTER  I. 


William  Carey,  to  whose  energy  and  example  the  Pro- 
testant Missions  of  the  nineteenth  century  owe  their 
origin,  was  born  in  the  village  of  Pury,  or  p^^^ 
Paulerspury,  in  Northamptonshire,  on  the  17th  WillIam  Carey- 
of  August,  1761.  His  grandfather  and  father  were  suc- 
cessively the  parish  clerk  and  schoolmaster  of  the  village ; 
and  he  was  thus  grounded  in  the  rudiments  of  learning, 
and  received  "  an  education  which  was  generally  esteemed 
good  in  country  villages."  The  memorials  of  his  youth 
are  very  scanty,  being  derived  chiefly  from  the  traditions 
of  his  relatives  after  he  had  risen  to  distinction.  It 
was  remembered  that  at  the  age  of  six,  he  worked  out 
sums  in  arithmetic  in  his  own  mind ;  that  after  having 
learned  to  read,  he  manifested  an  avidity  for  books  of 
science,  history,  and  travels ;  and  that  his  scientific  tastes 
became  prominent  at  an  early  age.  His  room  was 
crowded  with  the  insects  he  had  collected  to  mark  their 
development,  and  he  endeavoured  to  acquire  a  know- 
ledge of  drawing  to  assist  these  researches.     He  never 

VOL,     I.  B 


Digitized  by 


Google 


2  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPOBB  MISSION,         [Chip.  L 

walked  out  without  carefully  observing  the  hedges,  and 
minutely  examined  the  structure  of  every  plant  he 
gathered.  During  his  childhood,  it  was  remarked  that 
whatever  he  began  he  completed,  and  never  allowed  him- 
self to  be  checked  by  difficulties.  He  took  an  active  share 
in  the  juvenile  sports  of  the  village,  and  became  a  great 
favourite  with  the  children  of  his  own  age  by  the  live- 
liness of  his  remarks.  Though  his  manners  were  rustic 
and  uncouth,  his  appearance  was  prepossessing,  and  the 
more  intelligent  of  his  friends  thought  they  could  discern 
in  him  the  seeds  of  future  promise.  At  the  age  of  twelve 
he  obtained  a  copy  of  "  Dyche's  Latin  Vocabulary,"  and 
committed  nearly  the  whole  of  it  to  memory,  and  carefully 
studied  the  brief  sketch  of  a  grammar  prefixed  to  it.  But 
his  parents  were  indigent,  and  unable  to  afford  him  any 
assistance  in  the  pursuit  of  knowledge ;  and  a  scorbutic 
disorder,  which  his  constitution  eventually  overcame,  un- 
fitted him  at  the  time  for  any  labour  out  of  doors.  He 
^.apprenticed  was>  therefore,  bound  apprentice,  at  -the  age  of 
u  a  shoemaker.  fourteen,  to  Clarke  Nichols,  a  shoemaker  at 
Hackleton. 

Although  every  prospect  of  intellectual  progress  was 
apparently  quenched  by  this  event,  his  thirst  for  knowledge 
mmnrMrmmm§n    continued  unabated.      In  the  little  collection 

Hit  progress  in 

knowledge.  0f  fcookg  in  the  shoemaker's  shop  he  found  a 
commentary  on  the  New  Testament,  which  was  inter- 
spersed with  Greek  words.  He  was  ignorant  of  the  Greek 
alphabet,  but  he  made  a  rude  delineation  of  the  cha- 
racters which  occurred  in  his  reading.  In  the  village  in 
which  his  father  resided,  there  lived  a  journeyman  weaver 
of  the  name  of  Tom  Jones,  who  had  received  a  liberal 
education  at  Kidderminster,  with  a  view  to  the  medi- 
cal profession,  but  had  been  constrained,  through  the 
unsteadiness  of  his  habits,  to  seek  a  livelihood  by  manual 
labour.  When  young  Carey  could  obtain  permission  to 
visit  his  father,  he  took  the  Greek  words  he  had  copied  to 
Jones,  and  obtained  a  translation  of  them,  and  was  thus 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1777.]  HISTOBY  OP  THE  SBRAMPORE  MISSION.  3 

led  forward  to  cultivate  the  language.  His  master  died 
about  two  years  after  his  apprenticeship  commenced,  and 
he  engaged  himself  as  a  journeyman  shoemaker  to  a 
Mr.  Old,  who  is  described  as  a  "  worthy  and  respectable 
man."  The  Rev.  Thomas  Scott,  the  author  of  the  well- 
known  commentary  on  the  Bible,  was  in  the  habit  of 
paying  pastoral  visits  to  the  family  of  Mr.  Old,  and  it  is 
recorded  that  on  one  of  these  occasions,  "  Mr.  Old  entered 
the  room  with  a  sensible-looking  lad,  in  his  working  apron. 
Young  Carey's  attention  was  riveted  while  Mr.  Scott 
addressed  the  group  of  rustics,  and  he  exhibited  great 
intelligence.  He  said  little,  but  occasionally  asked  appro- 
priate questions  with  much  modesty,  which  led  Mr.  Scott 
to  remark  to  those  around  him  that  the  youth  would  prove 
no  ordinary  character."  At  a  subsequent  period,  when 
Mr.  Scott  had  occasion  to  pass  the  old  shop  where  Mr. 
Carey  had  been  employed  in  making  shoes,  he  observed  to 
those  who  were  with  him  "  that  was  Mr.  Carey's  college ; " 
and  seldom  has  so  humble  a  college  turned  out  so  dis- 
tinguished a  graduate. 

Mr.  Carey  was  brought  up  a  strict  Churchman,  as  be- 
came the  son  and  grandson  of  the  parish  clerk,  and  was 
in  due  time  confirmed.  He  had  read,  as  he  Hi$  rell  louf  ex 
said,  Jeremy  Taylor's  works  and  Spinker*s  "^o'"1**- 
"  Sick  Man  Visited,"  and  entertained  a  cordial  hatred  of 
all  dissent.  Soon  after  his  connection  with  Mr.  Old  com- 
menced, he  was  brought  under  strong  religious  impressions 
through  the  instrumentality  of  a  fellow-servant.  He 
describes  his  previous  course  of  life  as  having  been  very 
irregular,  if  not  vicious;  yet  he  had  been  rarely. guilty  of 
any  open  immorality,  and  his  own  estimate  of  his  conduct 
may  be  in  some  measure  attributed  to  the  humility  of  his 
character,  and  the  high  standard  of  excellence  which  he 
prescribed  for  himself.  He  now  began  to  realise  his  danger 
as  a  sinner  and  the  necessity  of  conversion,  and  these  con- 
victions led  him  to  a  closer  examination  of  the  sacred 
Scriptures.     He  resolved  regularly  to  attend  three  church 

B  2 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


4  HISTORY  T)F  THE.  SEBAMPOBB  MISSION.         [Chap.  I. 

services  during  the  Sunday,  as  well  as  a  prayer-meeting 
at  the  Dissenting  chapel  in  the  week.  It  was  at  this  period 
that  he  appears  to  have  experienced  that  vital  change 
of  heart  which  laid  the  foundation  of  all  the  Christian 
excellence  of  his  character.  It  was  chiefly  under  the 
ministry  of  Mr.  Scott,  the  commentator,  at  Ravenstone, 
that  he  made  progress  in  his  religious  career,  and  he  was 
in  the  habit  of  remarking  in  after  life  that  if  there  was 
"  anything  of  the  work  of  God  in  him,  he  was  indebted  for 
it  to  Mr.  Scott's  ministrations,"  The  dawn  of  Divine 
truth  on  his  mind,  however,  was  very  gradual.  He  had 
imbibed  the  views  of  Law,  and  he  remained  for  a  con- 
siderable time  in  a  state  of  distressing  perplexity  regarding 
the  real  doctrines  of  the  Gospel.  He  could  neither  receive 
the  dogmas  of  Law  with  confidence,  nor  satisfactorily  refute 
them.  But  his  mind  was  enlightened  and  relieved  by  the 
perusal  of  a  work  which  had  then  recently  appeared  from 
the  pen  of  Mr.  Hall,  entitled  "  Help  to  Zion's  Travellers," 
and  which  is  still  held  in  the  highest  estimation  by  those 
who  appreciate  evangelical  truth.  He  read  the  treatise 
with  rapture,  and  there  he  found  "  all  that  he  had  picked 
up  by  scraps  arranged  and  illustrated,"  and  for  the  first 
time  he  felt  the  ground  of  his  Christian  faith  firm  and 
stable. 

Mr.  Carey's  first  appearance  in  the  pulpit  was  at  the 

very  immature  age  of  eighteen,  and  he  always  looked  back 

on  the   attempt   which    he   then   made   with 

Commencement      /»      i»  /»    1  *t*     »*  tt        i       t     •    •         l      ,1 

<r  hi,  career  a.  a  feelings  of  humiliation.      He   had  ioined  the 

minister.  °  .  J 

church  formed  at  the  time  by  a  few  pious  men 
at  Hackleton,  and  "  a  sort  of  conference,"  he  said,  "  was 
begun,  and  he  was  sometimes  invited  to  deliver  his  thoughts 
on  a  passage  of  Scripture,  which  the  people,  being  ig- 
norant, applauded,  to  my  great  injury."  Some  time  after, 
while  attending  one  of  the  Associations  at  Olney,  at 
which  he  was  obliged  to  fast  all  day,  not  having  the  means 
of  purchasing  a  meal,  some  friends  from  Earl's  Barton,  a 
neighbouring  village,  were  lamenting  their  spiritual  desti- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1783.]  HISTORY  OP  THE  SERAMPOBE  MISSION.  5 

tution  to  Mr.  Chater,  the  Independent  minister  at  Olney, 
He  was  well  acquainted  with  Mr.  Carey's  character,  and 
at  once  advised  them  to  request  his  services.  They 
called  on  him  soon  after,  and  he  yielded  to  their  solicita- 
tion, not  from  any  confidence  in  his  own  abilities,  but 
simply  from  his  unwillingness  to  distress  them  by  a 
refusal.  In  that  village  he  preached  from  Sabbath  to 
Sabbath  for  three  years  and  a  half.  The  friends  in  his 
native  village  of  Pury  likewise  requested  him  to  allow  them 
the  same  privilege,  and  he  readily  agreed  to  preach  once 
a  month,  the  distance  from  Hackleton  being  ten  miles. 
It  was  during  these  ministerial  engagements  that  his  views 
on  the  subject  of  baptism  became  changed,  and  he  imbibed 
the  conviction  that  baptism  by  immersion  and  after  a  con- 
fession of  faith  was  scriptural  and  apostolic.  He  was 
accordingly  baptized  by  Dr.  John  Ryland,  his  future 
associate  in  the  cause  of  Missions,  who  stated  in  a  public 
address  at  a  subsequent  period,  that  "on  the  5th  of 
October,  1783,  he  baptized  a  poor  journeyman  shoemaker 
in  the  river  Nen,  a  little  beyond  Dr.  Doddridge's  chapel  in 
Northampton."  Some  time  after,  the  little  congregation 
at  Barton  manifested  a  desire  to  be  organised  as  a  church, 
and  consulted  the  Rev.  John  Sutcliff  of  Olney.  He  came 
down  to  the  village  and  conversed  affectionately  with  Mr. 
Carey,  and  advised  him  to  join  some  church,  and  receive  a 
call  to  the  work  of  the  ministry  according  to  the  rules  and 
practice  of  the  denomination.  Mr.  Carey  therefore  offered 
himself  as  a  member  of  the  church  under  Mr.  SutclifFs 
pastoral  care.  But  when  the  question  of  his  being  called 
to  the  ministry  came  under  discussion,  no  little  hesitation 
was  manifested  by  some  of  the  members,  who  doubted 
whether  he  possessed  sufficient  ability  for  a  useful 
minister;  and  Mr.  Sutcliff  was  obliged  to  exert  all  the  in- 
fluence of  his  position  to  carry  the  point.  Mr.  Carey  was 
at  length,  however,  accepted,  and  received  a  call,  after 
delivering  a  discourse  which  he  describes  as  having  been 
44  as  crude  and  weak  as  anything  could  be  which  is  called, 

B   3 


Digitized  by 


Google 


6  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPOBB  MISSION.        [Chap.  I. 

or  has  been  called,  a  sermon."  At  the  same  time,  Mr. 
Sutcliff  placed  a  Latin  Grammar  in  his  hands,  and  advised 
him  to  study  it  assiduously.  The  circle  of  his  studies 
was  gradually  enlarged  as  he  was  able  to  procure  the  loan 
of  books  from  his  neighbours,  and,  though  pinched  with 
poverty,  he  yet  managed  to  purchase  a  few  books  at  the 
sale  of  Mr.  Ryland,  which  laid  the  foundation  of  his 
library.  Among  other  methods  which  he  pursued  to 
improve  his  acquaintance  with  languages,  was  that  of 
reading  the  portion  of  Scripture  which  he  selected  for 
devotional  exercise  in  the  morning,  in  Latin,  Greek,  and 
Hebrew. 

Mr.  Old  died,  and  Mr.  Carey  took  over  his  stock  and 
business,  and  married  his  sister  before  he  had  reached  the 
HUmtrriMeand  age  of  twenty.  This  premature  marriage  was 
difficulties.  not  simpjy  imprudent  under  existing  circum- 
stances, but  was  highly  inauspicious  in  reference  to  his 
future  career.  His  illiterate  wife  possessed  no  feelings  in 
unison  with  his  own,  and  was  altogether  unsuited  to  be  his 
companion.  Notwithstanding  the  immense  disparity  in 
intellect  and  attainments  between  them,  Mr.  Carey  always 
treated  her  with  the  utmost  affection,  while  she  mani- 
fested no  interest  in  his  aspirations  for  a  larger  sphere  of 
labour  and  usefulness.  The  extreme  consideration  and 
tenderness  which  invariably  marked  his  conduct  towards 
her,  place  the  meekness  and  magnanimity  of  his  character 
in  the  strongest  light.  After  his  marriage,  he  rented  a 
neat  little  cottage  at  Hackleton,  the  chief  recommendation 
of  which  was  the  garden  attached  to  it,  which  he  culti- 
vated with  great  assiduity,  and  which  flourished  far  more 
vigorously  than  his  business.  Trade  became  dull,  and  he 
was  constrained  to  sell  off  his  stock  at  a  great  sacrifice. 
At  the  same  time  he  was  attacked  with  fever,  which  hung 
on  him  for  eighteen  months.  While  in  this  enfeebled 
state,  he  was  frequently  obliged  to  travel  from  place  to 
place  to  dispose  of  his  goods  to  procure  bread.  The 
church  and  congregation  at  Barton  were  not  able  to  raise 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1786.]  HISTOBY  OF  THE  SERAMPORB  MISSION.  7 

enough  to  pay  for  the  clothes  worn  out  in  their  service. 
He  was  reduced,  at  this  period,  to  the  greatest  distress,  but 
was  rescued  from  starvation  by  the  affection  of  a  brother, 
who  made  over  to  him  whatever  he  could  spare  from  his 
own  scanty  earnings.  A  small  collection  was  also  made 
for  him  in  his  native  village  of  Paulerspury.  With  this 
aid  he  removed  for  change  of  air  to  the  village  of  Pid- 
dington,  where  he  selected  a  cottage  with  a  little  garden, 
which  he  cultivated  early  and  late.  Unhappily,  the  cottage 
was  situated  in  a  swamp,  and  the  miasma  brought  on 
ague  and  fever,  which  rendered  him  prematurely  bald. 

Mr.  Carey,  soon  after,  closed  his  connection  with  the 
congregation  at  Barton,  and  on  the  advice  of  his  friend, 
Mr.  Sutcliff,  took  charge  of  a  little  Dissenting  Heremoyegto 
interest  at  Moulton  ;  but  with  that  practical  Moulton- 
good  sense  which  always  distinguished  his  conduct,  find- 
ing that  the  church  required  to  be  winnowed,  he  required 
the  members  to  sign  a  covenant,  strict  on  all  practical 
points,  and  not  too  highly  seasoned  with  doctrinal  dogmas. 
This  was  at  the  beginning  of  1786,  when  he  had  reached 
the  age  of  twenty-four  and  a  half.  He  appears  to  have 
been  attracted  to  Moulton  by  the  prospect  of  a  good 
school,  which  the  departure  of  the  former  master  opened 
to  him.  Few  men  have  ever  been  less  fitted  by  nature 
for  such  a  profession  than  Mr.  Carey.  "  When  I  kept 
school,"  as  he  facetiously  remarked  in  after  life,  "  it  was 
the  boys  who  kept  me."  He  was  unable  to  maintain  any 
control  over  his  pupils,  who  often  took  personal  liberties 
with  him,  totally  subversive  of  all  discipline.  The  old 
master,  however,  returned  and  resumed  his  occupation, 
Mr.  Carey's  school  must  have  decayed  without  any  com- 
petition, but  it  melted  away  the  more  rapidly  after  the 
arrival  of  so  formidable  a  rival,  till  the  income  which  it 
gave  him  was  reduced  to  Is.  6d.  a  week.  The  little 
Baptist  church  at  Moulton  was  unable  to  raise  more 
than  11  J.  a  year  for  his  support,  to  which  5/.  were  added 
from  some  fund  in  London.      For  a  minister  this  was 

B  4 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


8  HISTORY  OF  THE  SEBAMPORE  MISSION.         [Chap.  L 

simply  starvation,  and  he  was  obliged,  therefore,  to  fall 
back  on  his  former  trade  for  a  subsistence.  "  Once  in  a 
fortnight,"  remarks  his  associate,  Mr.  Morris,  "Carey 
might  be  seen  walking  eight  or  ten  miles  to  Northampton, 
with  his  wallet  full  of  shoes  upon  his  shoulder,  and  then 
returning  home  with  a  fresh  supply  of  leather  to  fulfil  his 
engagements  with  a  Government  contractor."  The  testi- 
mony borne  to  his  skill  in  the  mystery  of  a  shoemaker  by 
those  who  knew  him,  was  by  no  means  flattering ;  and  he 
himself  always  entertained  the  humblest  opinion  of  his 
•own  abilities  in  that  line.  Thirty  years  after  this  period, 
when  dining  one  day  at  Barrackpore  Park,  opposite  Seram- 
pore,  with  the  Governor-General,  the  Marquis  of  Hastings, 
he  overheard  one  of  the  guests,  a  general  officer,  making 
inquiry  of  one  of  the  aides-de-camp,  whether  Dr.  Carey 
had  not  once  been  a  shoemaker,  on  which  he  stepped 
forward,  and  exclaimed,  "  No,  sir !  only  a  cobbler." 

Mr.  Carey's  residence  at  Moulton,  notwithstanding  his 
pecuniary  difficulties,  was  rendered  agreeable  by  oppor- 
tune of  ur*  at  tunities  of  mental  improvement,  to  which  he 
Mouuon.  ka(j  hitherto  been  a  stranger.   Having  a  settled 

ministerial  charge  and  an  increasing  congregation,  to 
whom  he  preached  four  times  in  the  week,  he  was  led  to  a 
more  regular  course  of  biblical  study  and  a  more  enlarged 
cultivation  of  his  natural  gifts.  He  adopted  that  syste- 
matic distribution  and  that  stern  economy  of  time  which 
subsequently  enabled  him  to  accomplish  labours  almost 
incredible.  He  also  enjoyed  the  advantage  of  personal 
intercourse  with  the  venerable  Mr.  Hall  of  Arnsby,  whose 
name  is  still  fragrant  in  the  churches,  partly  from  the 
excellent  treatise  already  alluded  to,  but  chiefly  through 
the  incomparable  genius  of  his  son,  Robert  Hall.  Mr. 
Carey  and  another  friend  met  regularly  at  Mr.  Hall's 
house  to  enjoy  the  benefit  of  his  conversation,  and  to  profit 
by  his  critical  remarks  on  their  pulpit  exercises.  At 
Moulton  he  improved  his  acquaintance  with  Dr.  Ryland ; 
but   the    most    important    acquisition    he   made    during 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1787.]  HISTORY   OF  THE   SERAMPORB  MISSION.  9 

his  residence   in  this  village  was  the  friendship  of  the 
Rev,  Andrew  Fuller,  the  Baptist   minister  at  Kettering, 
destined  to  be  his  future  associate  in  the  great 
cause  of  Missions.  Mr.  Carey  was  unexpectedly  uonU'V110" 

"      Fuller. 

requested  to  preach  at  a  meeting  of  ministers  at 
Northampton.  On  descending  from  the  pulpit  Mr.  Fuller 
grasped  his  hand,  and  described  in  the  warmest  language 
the  delight  he  felt  at  finding  so  exact  a  coincidence  in  their 
sentiments,  and  expressed  his  hope  that  they  should  become 
better  acquainted  with  each  other.  Thus  commenced  a 
cordial  friendship  between  two  great  and  congenial  minds, 
cemented  by  a  rare  coincidence  of  elevated  views  and 
energy  of  character,  which  continued  in  undiminished 
vigour  to  the  close  of  Mr.  Fuller's  career  in  1815. 

It  was  from  the  perusal  of  "  Cooke's  Voyages  round  the 
World,"  and  while  employed  in  giving  instruction  to  his 
pupils  at  Moulton  in  geography,  that  Mr.  Carey  o^^,.^ 
was  led  to  contemplate  the  moral  and  spiritual  »,onarJr*rdour- 
degradation  of  the  heathen,  and  to  form  the  noble  design  of 
communicating  the  Gospel  to  them.  When  he  was  subse- 
quently constrained  to  relinquish  the  school  and  return 
to  manual  occupation,  the  same  thoughts  were  still  upper- 
most. The  idea  of  establishing  a  Mission  to  the  heathen 
had  taken  such  complete  possession  of  his  mind  as  to 
absorb  his  thoughts  and  his  affections.  He  could  talk  of 
little  else.  Mr.  Fuller  has  related,  that  on  going  to  his 
little  workshop,  he  saw  a  large  map  suspended  on  the 
wall,  composed  of  several  sheets  pasted  together,  in 
which  he  had  entered  every  particular  he  had  been  able 
to  glean  relative  to  the  natural  characteristics,  the  popu- 
lation, and  the  religion  of  every  country,  as  then  known 
to  us.  While  engaged  in  making  or  mending  shoes,  his 
eye  was  often  raised  from  the  last  to  the  map,  and  his 
mind  was  employed  in  traversing  the  different  regions 
of  the  globe,  and  musing  on  the  condition  of  the 
various  heathen  tribes,  and  devising  the  means  of  evan- 
gelising them.      It  was  to  this   circumstance  that  Mr. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


10  HISTORY  OF  THE   SERAMPORE  MISSION.         [Chap.  I. 

Wilberforce  alluded  in  the  House  of  Commons  when 
urging  parliament  to  grant  the  missionaries  free  access  to 
India.  u  A  sublimer  thought,"  said  he,  "  cannot  be  con- 
ceived than  when  a  poor  cobbler  formed  the  resolution  to 
give  to  the  millions  of  Hindoos  the  Bible  in  their  own 
language."  But  Mr.  Carey  met  with  little  encourage- 
ment in  his  endeavours  to  press  the  subject  of  Missions  on 
his  ministerial  brethren.  At  a  meeting  of  ministers  held 
about  this  time  at  Northampton,  Mr.  Ryland,  senior, 
called  on  the  young  men  around  him  to  propose  some 
topic  for  discussion,  on  which  Mr.  Carey  rose  and  pro- 
posed for  consideration,  "  The  duty  of  Christians  to 
attempt  the  spread  of  the  Gospel  among  heathen  nations." 
The  venerable  divine  received  the  proposal  with  astonish- 
ment, and,  springing  on  his  feet,  denounced  the  propo- 
sition with  a  frown,  and  thundered  out,  u  Young  man, 
sit  down.  When  God  pleases  to  convert  the  heathen,  He 
will  do  it  without  your  aid  or  mine."  Mr.  Fuller  himself, 
who,  in  after  years,  built  up  the  Mission  at  home,  while 
Mr.  Carey  was  employed  in  establishing  it  in  India,  was 
startled  by  the  boldness  and  novelty  of  the  proposal,  and 
described  his  feelings  as  resembling  those  of  the  unbe- 
lieving courtier  in  Israel :  "  If  the  Lord  should  make 
windows  in  heaven,  might  such  a  thing  be !  " 

Soon  after,  Mr.  Carey  had  occasion  to  visit  Birmingham, 
and  he  called  on  Mr.  Potts,  who  had  risen  to  opulence 

in  the  course  of  trade,  and  immediately  in- 
bTdr^pH**^  troduced  the  subject  of  Missions.     He  stated 

that  if  any  body  of  Christians  could  be  found 
to  send  him  to  a  heathen  land  and  support  him  for  a 
twelvemonth,  he  was  ready  at  once  to  embark  on  the 
undertaking.  Mr.  Potts  replied  that  the  idea  was  alto- 
gether  new,  and  that  the  Christian  public  was  not  pre- 
pared for  such  an  enterprise.  Mr.  Carey  said  that  he 
was  unhappily  too  well  aware  of  this  fact,  but  he  had 
written  a  pamphlet  on  the  state  of  the  heathen,  which 
might  possibly  awaken  some  interest  on  the  subject,  but  was 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1789.]  HISTORY  OF  THE   SEBAMPOEB   MISSION.  11 

unable  to  meet  the  expense  of  publishing  it.  Mr.  Potts  im- 
mediately offered  him  a  contribution  of  101.  towards  the 
cost,  which  was  readily  accepted.  On  his  return  from  Bir- 
mingham, he  met  Mr.  Fuller,  Dr.  Ryland,  and  Mr.  Sutcliff, 
and  pressed  the  question  on  their  notice  with  increased 
importunity,  and  urged  them  to  rouse  the  denomination 
to  action.  They  exhibited  great  reluctance;  and  he  then 
disclosed  to  them  that  he  had  ventured  to  draw  up  an 
address  on  the  subject,  and  had  pledged  himself  to  a  friend 
to  publish  it,  unless  he  could  prevail  on  some  one  more 
competent  to  undertake  the  task.  To  escape  from  his  im- 
portunity they  united  in  urging  him  to  revise 
it  for  the  press,  and  it  was  this  pamphlet  which  gjj&j*  *tt 
may  be  said  to  have  laid  the  foundation  of 
those  missionary  efforts  which  have  now  grown  to  the 
dimensions  of  a  national  undertaking.  The  pamphlet 
displayed  the  extraordinary  knowledge  he  had  acquired  of 
the  geography,  history,  and  statistics  of  the  various 
countries  in  the  world,  and  exhibited  the  greatest  mental 
energy  under  the  pressure  of  the  severest  poverty.  ~Bpt 
while  engaged  in  the  compilation  of  this  work,  he  and 
his  family  were  in  a  state  bordering  on  starvation,  and 
passed  many  weeks  without  animal  food,  and  with  but 
a  scanty  supply  of  other  provisions.  Of  his  singular 
aptitude  for  acquiring  languages,  we  have  an  illustration 
at  this  period  from  the  recollections  of  Mr.  Fuller.  Some 
friend  presented  him  with  a  large  folio  volume  in  Dutch, 
on  which  he  borrowed  a  grammar  and  dictionary  of  that 
language,  and  was  soon  able  to  present  his  friend  with  a 
translation  of  one  of  the  Dutch  sermons  in  English. 

The  little  village  of  Moulton  did  not,  however,  present  a 
sphere  suited  to  a  man  of  Mr.  Carey's  character  and  aspira- 
tions. It  afforded  him  but  few  facilities  for  those  Mr.  Careys  re- 
mental  and  ministerial  pursuits  with  which  his  ErVandthead?" 

*  vantages  ne  en- 

happiness  had  become  identified.     He  there-  ******* 
fore  accepted  the  invitation  of  the  church  at  Leicester, 
and  in  1789  removed  to  that  town  at  the  age  of  twenty- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


12  HISTORY  OF  THE   SERAMPOEE  MISSION.         [Chap.  L 

eight.  His  pecuniary  circumstances  were  somewhat  im- 
proved by  the  change;  but  the  poverty  of  the  church 
obliged  him  to  have  recourse  to  secular  employment  to 
eke  out  a  subsistence,  and  he  made  a  second  attempt  to 
keep  a  school.  At  Leicester  he  was  introduced  to  Dr. 
Arnold,  who  is  described  as  ua  great  lover  of  polite 
literature,"  and  who  gave  him  free  access  to  his  library, 
which  contained  a  valuable  collection  of  works  on  science. 
Here  Mr.  Carey  was  in  his  element;  he  enjoyed  oppor- 
tunities of  cultivating  his  natural  tastes,  and  prosecuting 
those  scientific  researches  which  were  afterwards  con- 
tinued with  so  much  ardour  and  success  in  India.  He 
distributed  his  time  to  the  best  advantage.  "  On  Monday," 
he  writes,  "  I  confine  myself  to  the  study  of  the  learned 
languages,  and  oblige  myself  to  translate  something.  On 
Tuesday,  the  study  of  science,  history,  and  composition. 
On  Wednesday,  I  preach  a  lecture,  and  have  been  more 
than  a  twelvemonth  on  the  book  of  Revelations.  On 
Thursday  I  visit  my  friends.  Friday  and  Saturday 
are  spent  in  preparing  for  the  Lord's  day;  and  the 
Lord's  day  in  preaching  the  word  of  God.  Once  a  fort- 
night I  preach  three  times  at  home,  and  once  a  fortnight 
I  go  to  a  neighbouring  village  in  the  evening.  My  school 
begins  at  nine  in  the  morning,  and  continues  till  four  in 
winter  and  five  in  summer." 

At  Leicester  Mr.  Carey  made  the  acquaintance  of  the 
Rev.  Thomas  Robinson,  the  pious  and  exemplary  rector 

of  St.  Mary's,  who  will  long  be  remembered  with 
£{sLT'        affection  and  esteem  for  his  admirable  "  Scripture 

Characters."  With  him  Mr.  Carey  maintained 
a  constant  and  cordial  intercourse  while  he  continued  in 
the  town,  and  a  friendly  correspondence  after  his  removal 
to  India.  Mr.  Robinson  one  day  asked  him  whether  he 
approved  of  Dissenting  ministers  enlarging  their  own 
congregations  at  the  expense  of  the  churches  in  the  Esta- 
blishment ?  Mr.  Carey  replied,  "  Mr.  Robinson,  I  am  a 
Dissenter  and  you  are  a  Churchman ;  we  must  each  en- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1789.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORB  MISSION.  13 

deavour  to  do  good  according  to  our  light.     At  the  same 
time,  you  may  be  assured  that  I  had  rather  be  the  instru- 
ment of  converting  a  scavenger  that  sweeps  the  streets 
than  of  proselytising  the  richest  and  best  character  in 
your  congregation."     Such  were  the   unsectarian   senti- 
ments of  Mr.  Carey  when  in  comparative  obscurity ;  and 
though  he  always  entertained  a  strong  objection  to  the 
union  of  Church  and  State,  and  considered  religious  esta- 
blishments without  warrant  in  Scripture,  the  same  en- 
larged and  liberal  views  regulated  his  conduct  when  placed 
in  a  more  conspicuous  sphere  of  action.     The   Baptist 
church  at  Leicester  was  at  this  time  sunk  in  the  slough 
of  Antinomianism.     Mr.  Carey  made  the  most  strenuous 
efforts  to  root  out  these  errors ;  but,  meeting  with  little 
success,  he  formed  the  bold  plan  of  at  once  dissolving  the 
church   and  constructing  a  new  association,  into  which 
none  should  be  admitted  but  those  who  agreed  to  sub- 
scribe a  declaration  that  they  would  in  future  adhere  with 
rigid  fidelity  to  the  doctrines  and  the  discipline  of  the 
New  Testament.      The  church,  thus  purified, 
soon  began  to  exhibit  a  more  healthy  feeling  of  purl£IhSr*to 
piety  and  zeal.     His  opponents,  who  were  loose 
in  doctrine  and  looser  in  practice,  became  its  bitter  ene- 
mies after  they  had  been  excluded ;  but  their  attacks  only 
afforded    a  brighter  opportunity  for  the  exhibition  of 
Christian  virtue  on  the  part  of  the  pastor  and  members. 
In  reference  to  this  period  of  his  labours,  Mr.  Fuller  has 
observed :  "  Mr.  Carey's  zeal  and  unremitted  labours  in 
preaching  the  word,  not  only  in  Leicester  but  in  the  vil- 
lages near  it,  endeared  him  to  the  friends  of  religion,  and 
his  thirst  for  learning  rendered  him  respected  by  others. 
He  has  sometimes  regretted  to  me  his  want  of  early  edu- 
cation.    4 1  was  so  rusticated,'  he  would  say,  '  when  a  lad, 
th^t  I  am  as  if  I  could  never  recover  myself/     Yet  the 
natural  energies  of  his  mind,  accompanied,  as  they  were, 
with  a  generous,  manly,  and  open  disposition,  together 
with   an  ingratiating  behaviour  towards  men  of  every 


Digitized  by 


Google 


14  HISTORY   OF  THE   SBRAMPORE  MISSION.         [Chap.  I. 

degree,  soon  rendered  him  respected  not  only  by  those 
who  attended  his  ministry,  but  by  many  other  persons  of 
learning  and  opulence." 

These  ministerial  labours  and  this  success,  however, 
never  for  a  moment  relaxed  Mr.  Carey's  ardour  for  the 

great  missionary  object  on  which  his  thoughts 
^r^mul    and  affections  were  now  fixed.     The  more  he 

mused  on  it,  the  more  intensely  did  the  fire  burn 
within  him.  For  four  years  he  had  continued  on  every 
occasion  to  urge  on  his  brethren  in  the  ministry  the  indis- 
pensable duty  of  sending  the  Gospel  to  the  heathen.  The 
aged  and  more  influential  ministers  endeavoured  to  dis- 
suade him  from  so  visionary  a  scheme ;  but  this  only  led 
him  to  press  it  with  greater  earnestness  on  those  who 
were  nearer  his  own  age  and  standing  in  the  denomi- 
nation —  Fuller,  Sutcliff,  Ryland,  and  Pearce ;  and 
he  succeeded,  in  some  small  degree,  in  communicating 
to  them  the  contagion  of  his  own  ardent  feelings.  At  the 
Easter  meeting  of  ministers  at  Clipstone  in  1791,  the 
discourses  appeared  to  bear  an  aspect  towards  the  mis- 
sionary cause ;  and  when  they  sat  down  to  dinner,  after 
the  services  of  the  day,  Mr.  Carey  urged  that  something 
should  be  done  immediately,  on  that  very  day,  towards  the 
formation  of  a  Society  to  propagate  the  Gospel  in  heathen 
lands.  But  he  was  doomed  to  another  disappointment  of 
sixteen  months.  It  was  only  through  his  importunity 
that  his  brethren  had  been  led  to  regard  the  project  with 
complacency.  But  when  the  idea  of  pledging  themselves 
to  embark  in  such  an  undertaking  was  placed  distinctly 
before  them,  the  difficulties  seemed  to  expand,  and  they 
shrank  from  the  responsibility.  It  was  an  unknown  path 
on  which  he  was  urging  them  to  enter ;  and  the  enter- 
prise seemed  too  vast  and  ambitious  for  their  obscure 
position  and  limited  resources.  To  gain  time  without 
wounding  his  feelings,  they  urged  him  to  print  "  The 
Inquiry  on  Missions;"  and  Mr.  Carey,  seeing  that  nothing 
farther  was  to  be  gained  on  that  occasion,  revised  it  and 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1792.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORB  MISSION.  15 

sent  it  to  press.  The  next  Association  was  held  at 
Nottingham  at  the  end  of  May,  1792.  The  pulpit  was 
ceded  to  Mr.  Carey,  and  the  sermon  which  he 

11  i  •  i  i  ,i         a  i     .  •  Hit  sermon  on 

preached  may  be  considered  as  the  foundation  miMioni,anditi 
of  the  Baptist  Mission  in  India.  He  took 
for  his  text  the  passage  in  Isaiah  liv.  2,  3: — "Enlarge 
the  place  of  thy  tent,  and  let  them  stretch  forth  the 
curtains  of  thy  habitations :  spare  not,  lengthen  thy  cords, 
and  strengthen  thy  stakes:  for  thou  shalt  break  forth 
on  the  right  hand  and  on  the  left;  and  thy  seed  shall 
inherit  the  Gentiles,  and  make  the  desolate  cities  to  be 
inhabited."  From  this  text  he  explained  and  enforced 
two  principles.  1.  Expect  great  things  from  God. 
2.  Attempt  great  things  for  God.  The  discourse  was 
animated  and  eloquent.  The  concentrated  energy  of 
the  feelings  which  had  been  fermenting  in  his  mind  for  so 
many  years,  was  poured  into  his  exhortations,  and  it 
seemed  as  if  the  fruition  of  his  long-cherished  hopes 
depended  on  the  impression  he  could  then  produce  on 
the  audience.  With  such  vigour  did  he  denounce  the 
criminality  of  that  indifference  with  which  the  cause  of 
Missions  was  treated,  that  Dr.  Ryland,  who  was  present, 
said  he  should  not  have  wondered  if  the  audience  had 
"  lifted  up  their  voices,  and  wept."  But  when  the 
assembled  ministers  came  to  deliberate  on  the  subject,  the* 
old  feelings  of  doubt  and  hesitation  predominated,  and 
they  were  about  to  separate  without  any  decisive  result, 
when  Mr.  Carey  seized  Mr.  Fuller  by  the  hand  in  an 
agony  of  distress,  and  inquired  whether  "  they  were 
again  going  away  without  doing  anything?"  The  expos- 
tulation  was  successful,  and  to  his  delight  he  saw  the 
following  resolution  recorded  on  the  Minutes :  —  "  That  a 
plan  be  prepared  against  the  next  ministers'  meeting  at 
Kettering  for  the  establishment  of  a  Society  for  pro- 
pagating the  Gospel  among  the  heathen." 

This  memorable  meeting  was  held  at  Kettering  on  the 
2nd  of  October,  1792.      After  the  services  of  the  day, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


16  HISTORY  OF  THE   SERAMPORE  MISSION.         [Chap.  I. 

the  ministers,  twelve  in  number,  withdrew  to  the  parlour 
of  Mrs.  Wallis,  the  widow  of  one  of  the  deacons,  whose 
Formation  of  ancestor  had  established  the  first  Baptist  church 
i^socSy;  in  the  town  a  century  before.  •  They  entered 
2nd  ct.i79j.      -nto   a  jQn^   an<j   anxious   discussion    of  the 

practicability  of  sending  a  Mission  to  the  heathen.  At 
the  present  day,  when  the  various  countries  of  the  world 
are  almost  as  well  known  as  the  counties  of  England  were 
at  that  time,  and  the  genius  of  the  age  has  created  such 
matchless  facilities  of  communication,  that  Canton  is  as 
accessible  from  London  as  Edinburgh  then  was,  the 
organisation  of  a  society  for  any  object  in  any  part  of  the 
globe  appears  a  matter  of  ease,  and  it  is  difficult  to 
realise  the  obstacles  which  surrounded  such  an  enterprise 
when  it  was  debated  at  this  meeting.  The  ministers  felt 
that  there  was  no  experience  of  any  such  undertaking  to 
guide  their  movements ;  they  were  ignorant  of  the  mode 
of  constructing  a  Missionary  Association,  or  working  its 
machinery ;  they  knew  of  no  favourable  opening  in  any 
heathen  land  to  which  their  efforts  might  be  directed; 
they  were  without  funds  or  influence,  and  their  inland 
position  in  the  centre  of  England  was  unfavourable  for 
correspondence  or  action.  But  all  these  objections  were 
overruled  by  the  vigour  of  Mr.  Carey's  arguments,  and 
under  the  irresistible  influence  of  his  great  mind,  the 
ministers  present  were  prevailed  on  to  pledge  themselves 
in  a  solemn  vow  to  God  and  to  each  other,  to  make,  at  the 
least,  an  attempt  to  convey  the  Gospel  message  of  salva- 
tion to  some  portion  of  the  heathen  world.  A  Society 
was  constituted,  and  a  Committee  of  five  appointed,  con- 
sisting of  Andrew  Fuller,  John  By  land,  John  Sutcliff, 
Reynold  Hogg,  and  William  Carey.  Mr.  Fuller  was 
nominated  the  secretary,  and  Mr.  Hogg  the  treasurer  of 
the  new  body,  and  a  subscription  was  collected,  amounting 
to  thirteen  pounds  two  shillings  and  sixpence,  the  harbinger 
of  the  millions  which  have  since  been  laid  on  the  altar  of 
this  sacred  cause.     As  soon  as  the  subscription  paper  was 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1792.]  HI8T0BY  OP  THE  SERAMPORE   MISSION.  17 

filled  up,  Mr.  Carey  offered  to  embark  for  any  country 
which  the  Society  might  select.  His  mind  was  embued 
with  that  irresistible  enthusiasm  to  which  great  enter- 
prises owe  their  origin,  and  notwithstanding  the  ridiculous 
contrast  between  the  resources  obtained,  and  the  magni- 
tude of  the  enterprise,  he  was  eager  to  enter  upon  it  at 
once.  The  church  at  Birmingham,  under  the  pastoral 
care  of  the  ardent  and  amiable  Samuel  Pearce,  on  hearing 
of  this  missionary  movement,  immediately  raised  a  sub* 
scription  of  70?.,  and  became  the  first  auxiliary  of  the 
"Primary  Society,"  as  the  parent  Society  at  Kettering 
was  at  first  designated.  Other  churches  in  the  country 
followed  the  example,  and  the  Committee  soon  found 
themselves  in  possession  of  considerable  funds. 

But  the  ministers  and  churches  of  the  denomination  in 
London  stood  aloof  from  the  undertaking.  Residing  in 
the  metropolis  of  England,  they  considered  ln4mBrmceot 
themselves  the  magnates  of  the  body,  and  were  miStS! 5* 
unwilling  to  commit  themselves,  as  they  said,  ui0OMm 
to  an  enterprise  struck  out  in  the  heat  of  enthusiasm,  by 
a  few  ardent  spirits,  in  an  obscure  country  Association. 
Of  all  the  ministers  in  the  metropolis,  only  one  could  be 
induced  to  countenance  it.  A  meeting  was  convened  in 
the  city,  to  consider  the  propriety  of  forming  an  auxiliary 
Society  to  that  which  had  been  formed  at  Kettering;  but 
the  proposal  was  negatived  by  an  overwhelming  majority, 
though  some  were  anxious  to  cover  their  pusillanimity 
by  individual  donations.  Dr.  Stennett,  one  of  the  most 
influential  ministers  in  the  denomination  in  London, 
treated  Mr.  Carey  with  great  personal  respect,  but  would 
have  nothing  to  do  with  the  Mission.  The  feeling  then 
prevalent  in  London  was  thus  described  by  Mr.  Fuller  at 
a  subsequent  period : — "  When  we  began,  in  1792,  there 
was  little  or  no  respectability  among  us,  not  so  much  as  a 
squire  to  sit  in  the  chair,  or  an  orator  to  address  him  with 
speeches.  Hence  good  Dr.  Stennett  advised  the  London 
minister^  to  stand  aloof,  and  not  commit  themselves.9' 

vol.  i.  c 


Digitized  by 


Google 


18  HISTORY  OF  THE  SEEAMPORE  MISSION.        [Chap.  I. 

Great  allowance,  however,  must  be  made  for  the  caution  of 
the  London  ministers.  The  men  with  whom  the  Mission 
originated  were  comparatively  obscure  even  in  their  own 
diminutive  denomination.  Mr.  Fuller  was  just  beginning 
to  attract  public  notice  as  a  divine ;  but  neither  he  nor 
Mr.  Carey,  whose  genius  and  labours  have  contributed 
to  shed  so  much  lustre  on  the  denomination,  were,  at  the 
time,  men  of  any  "  mark  or  likelihood,"  and  their  under- 
taking seemed  to  be  so  far  beyond  their  strength,  as  to 
resemble  rather  the  dream  of  enthusiasts  than  the  sober 
project  of  reasonable  men.  Little  did  the  respectable 
ministers  of  London  foresee  that  the  plan  from  which  they 
shrunk  was  the  germ  of  a  magnificent  enterprise,  destined 
ere  long  to  enlist  the  zeal  and  energy  of  every  class  and 
rank  in  England  and  America,  and  to  embrace  in  its 
scope  every  heathen  tribe  under  the  sun.  The  only 
minister  from  whom  Mr.  Carey  experienced  any  warmth 
of  sympathy  was  a  member  of  the  Established  Church, 
the  venerable  John  Newton,  who  "  advised  him  with  the 
fidelity  and  tenderness  of  a  father." 

The  feeling  which  was  thus  found  to  pervade  the  minds 
of  the  most  respectable  Baptist  ministers  in  London,  on 
indifference  to  ^e  subject  of  Missions,  was  not  confined  to  that 
chSSofnsSL  denomination.  In  other  quarters  the  project  of 
tand"  Missions  was  treated  with  even  greater  contempt 

and  aversion.  The  national  mind  was  callous  to  the 
enterprise.  Three  years  after  the  formation  of  the  Baptist 
Missionary  Society,  to  whom  belongs  the  merit  of  breaking 
up  the  lethargy  of  the  age,  a  proposition  to  establish  a 
foreign  Mission  was  brought  forward  in  the  General  As- 
sembly of  the  Church  of  Scotland,  and  it  was  treated  not 
only  as  an  unnatural  but  a  revolutionary  design.  The 
proposal  was  introduced  in  1796,  when  the  Rev.  Mr. 
Hamilton  asserted  that "  to  spread  abroad  the  knowledge  of 
the  gospel  among  barbarous  and  heathen  nations  seemed 
to  him  highly  preposterous,  inasmuch  as  it  anticipates, 
nay,  reverses  the  order  of  nature.    Men  must  be#polished 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1792.]  HISTORY  OF  THE   SEBAMPORE   MISSION.  19 

and  refined  in  their  manners  before  they  can  be  properly 
enlightened  in  religious  truths/'  After  extolling  the  sim- 
ple virtues  of  the  untutored  Indian  or  Otaheitan,  he 
ventured  to  affirm  that  Christianity  would  neither  refine 
his  morals  nor  ensure  his  happiness.  The  venerable  Dr. 
Erskine  indignantly  denounced  these  assertions,  and  call- 
ing for  the  Bible  turned  to  the  Epistles,  and  reminded  the 
Assembly  that  an  inspired  Apostle  had  declared  himself 
debtor,  not  merely  to  the  polished  Greeks,  but  to  the 
unlettered  barbarians;  not  merely  to  the  wise,  but  to  the 
unwise,  to  preach  to  them  the  Gospel  which  was  the  power 
of  God  unto  salvation  to  every  one  that  believeth.  But 
Dr.  Hill,  notwithstanding  this  remonstrance,  pronounced 
the  missionary  societies  highly  dangerous  in  their  tenden- 
cies to  the  good  order  of  society;  and  Mr.  Boyle,  in  his 
address  to  the  meeting,  said  he  was  impressed  with  a  sense 
of  the  alarming  and  dangerous  tendency  of  the  measures 
proposed,  which  the  House  could  not  too  strongly  oppose, 
and  which  all  the  loyal  and  well-affected  members  of  the 
Assembly  would  be  unanimous  in  opposing.  He  averred 
that  "  as  for  these  Missionary  Societies,  since  it  is  to  be 
apprehended  that  their  funds  may  be  in  time,  nay,  certainly 
will  be  turned  against  the  Constitution,  it  is  the  bounden 
duty  of  this  House  to  give  the  overtures  recommending 
them  our  most  serious  disapprobation,  and  our  immediate 
and  most  decisive  opposition." 

It  was  in  this  morbid  state  of  public  feeling  that  Mr. 
Fuller  and  Mr.  Carey  resolved  to  carry  out  the  plan  of  a 
Mission  to  the  heathen.  The  destination  of  Attentl00ofBap. 
the  Mission  was  undecided,  when  the  receipt  of  giJ^SSSLi 
a  letter  from  a  Mr.  Thomas,  who  had  resided  to  Beng*h 
for  several  years  in  Bengal  and  preached  to  the  natives, 
and  was  now  endeavouring  to  obtain  subscriptions  for 
establishing  a  Mission  among  them,  induced  the  Baptist 
Missionary  Society  to  adopt  that  province  as  the  sphere  of 
their  future  labours.  It  will  be  interesting,  therefore,  at 
this  point  of  the  narrative,  to  glance  at  the  exertions 

c  2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


20  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.        [Chap.  I. 

which  had  previously  been  made  to  disseminate  Divine 
truth  in  that  region,  and  to  refer  more  particularly  to 
another  and  an  unsuccessful  effort  which  was  made  at 
this  period,  by  men  of  influence  in  Church  and  State,  un- 
known to  Mr.  Carey  and  his  fellow-labourers,  to  accomplish 
the  object  in  which  they  were  engaged. 

The  first  Protestant  Mission  in  India  was  established 
under  the  auspices  of  Frederick  IV.,  King  of  Denmark, 
n«t  esubiuh-  w^°»  at  ^e  recommendation  of  Dr.  Francke, 
^tUssk^K  of  Halle,  in  Saxony,  sent  out  Ziegenbalg  and 
Indit-  another  missionary  to  the  Danish  settlement 

of  Tranquebar,  on  the  Coromandel  Coast,  in  1705.  The 
Mission  was  soon  after  strengthened  by  additional  la- 
bourers, who  applied  with  zeal  to  the  study  of  the 
language  and  the  conversion  of  the  people.  In  1714,  a 
Missionary  College  was  established  at  Copenhagen,  and 
Ziegenbalg  returned  to  Europe  with  a  native  convert, 
and  was  graciously  received  and  encouraged  by  the  King. 
In  the  following  year  he  was  introduced,  under  the 
direction  of  the  Danish  Sovereign,  to  George  I.,  who 
manifested  more  interest  in  the  success  of  this  effort  to 
promote  Christianity  among  the  natives  of  India  than 
any  of  his  successors  have  done.  The  Coast  Mission  also 
received  no  little  assistance  from  the  Honourable  Society 
for  the  Promotion  of  Christianity,  incorporated  in 
London  by  King  William  in  1695.  Ziegenbalg  died 
in  1719,  but  the  Mission  he  had  established  was  main- 
tained  and  extended  by  a  long  succession  of  able 
missionaries.  In  the  year  1739,  it  was  joined  by  John 
Zachariah  Kiernandier,  who  appears  to  have  embarked 
for  India  under  the  patronage  of  that  Society,  generally 
known  as  the  Christian  Knowledge  Society.  This  de- 
voted missionary  was  born  at  Akstad,  in  Sweden,  in 
1711,  and  trained  up  to  learning  and  usefulness  by  Dr. 
Francke,  of  Halle,  a  place  which  was  for  half  a  century 
the  nursery  of  the  Protestant  Mission  on  the  Coast.  Some 
years  after  his  arrival  hostilities  broke  out  between  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1799.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  21 

English  and  the  French  settlements  on  the  coast,  and  for  a 
time  it  was  doubtful  which  of  these  European  powers  was 
destined  to  acquire  supremacy  in  India.  These  wars 
interrupted  the  labours  of  the  missionaries,  and  the 
occupation  of  Guddalore  by  the  French  in  1758  drove 
Kiernandier  to  Tranquebar.  Seeing  little  prospect  of  re- 
suming his  peaceful  labours  amidst  these  tumults  he  turned 
his  attention  to  Bengal,  where  the  star  of  England  was 
then  in  the  ascendant,  and  English  power  had 
been  established,  without  a  rival,  over  three  of  £2!om?3£Si 
the  fairest  provinces  of  the  Mogul  empire.  He 
reached  Calcutta  in  1758,  about  fifteen  months  after  the 
battle  of  Plassey,  and  received  a  cordial  welcome  from 
Colonel  and  Mrs.  Clive,  who  stood  sponsors  to  his  youngest 
child.  Calcutta  was  now  rising  like  a  phoenix  from  its 
ashes,  and  the  community,  enriched  by  the  treasures  of 
Moorshedabad,  was  eagerly  employed  in  building  the  new 
city  and  improving  the  brilliant  prospects  which  were  now 
unfolded.  In  these  interesting  circumstances  Kiernandier 
soon  became  a  general  favourite,  and  was  enabled,  under 
the  encouragement  of  the  two  Chaplains  and  by  the 
liberality  of  the  public,  to  open  a  school  for  the  education 
of  the  poor,  into  which  forty  pupils,  English,  Armenian, 
Portuguese,  and  natives,  were  received  in  the  course  of 
four  months,  and  gratuitously  instructed  in  the  rudiments 
of  learning  and  the  doctrines  of  Christianity. 

In  June,  1759,  Kiernandier  commenced  divine  service  in 
the  Portuguese  language,  which  was  more  familiar  to  him 
than  English.     He  never  acquired  any  know-  Genenilll-60f 
ledge  either  of  Hindoostanee  or  Bengalee,  and  g2gjpe,,ta 
to  the  day  of  his  death  was  unable  to  converse 
in  them.     Portuguese  came  in  with  the  Portuguese  power 
two  centuries  and  a  half  before,  and  survived  its  extinc- 
tion.    It  was  the  lingua  franca  of  all  the  foreign  Settle- 
ments around  the  Bay  of  Bengal,  and  was  the  ordinary 
medium  of  communication  between  the  Europeans  and  their 
domestics,  while  Persian  was  the  language  of  intercourse 

c  3 


Digitized  by 


Google 


22  HISTORY   OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.         [Chap.  I. 

with  the  native  courts.  Even  in  Calcutta  Portuguese  was 
more  commonly  used  by  the  servants  of  the  Company  and 
the  settlers  than  the  language  of  the  country.  The  charter 
granted  to  the  East  India  Company  at  the  beginning  of 
the  eighteenth  century  contained  a  provision  that  they 
should  maintain  one  Minister  at  each  of  their  garrisons 
and  superior  factories,  and  that  he  should  be  bound  to 
acquire  the  Portuguese  language  within  a  twelvemonth  of 
reaching  India.  Clive,  who  was  never  able  to  give  an  order 
in  any  native  language,  spoke  Portuguese  with  fluency. 
The  use  of  this  language  has  since  died  out  in  Bengal 
so  completely  that  the  descendants  of  the  Portuguese  now 
speak  Bengalee  from  their  cradle.  Yet  down  to  so  late  a 
period  as  1828,  the  governor  of  Serampore,  a  Norwegian, 
received  the  daily  report  of  his  little  garrison  of  thirty 
sepoys  from  the  native  commandant,  a  native  of  Oude,  in 
Portuguese.  It  was  in  this  language  that  Kiernandier 
commenced  and  continued  his  ministrations  among  his 
native  congregation. 

His  wife  died  four  years  after  his  arrival  in  Calcutta, 

and  in  1761  he  married  a  widow  who  was  said  to  be  in 

circumstances  of  such  affluence  as  to  place  him 

Kiernandier*i  .  .   .  *■  . 

£23^,  on  a  footing  of  equality  with  the  first  men  in 

the  Settlement.  But  this  is  evidently  an  ori- 
ental exaggeration,  for  there  had  been  no  time  for  the 
accumulation  of  such  wealth  within  three  years  after  the 
loss  of  every  fortune  in  the  sack  of  Calcutta.  A  con- 
siderable portion  of  the  money  brought  him  by 
his  wife  he  devoted  to  the  cause  of  religion,  and 
in  1767  began  to  build  a  church,  the  expense  of  which  was 
said  to  have  amounted  to  6000Z.  But  the  cost  appears 
fabulous  when  it  is  remembered  that  twenty  years  after 
the  church  was  an  unplastered,  brick  building,  of  small 
dimensions,  with  a  brick  pulpit  built  against  the  wall,  and 
a  few  rude  benches  capable  of  accommodating  a  congrega- 
tion of  two  hundred.  It  is  the  present  Mission  Church  of 
Calcutta,  now  a  stately  edifice,  which,  though  not  conse- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1792.]  HISTORY  OF  THE   SERAMPOBE  MISSION.  23 

crated  by  episcopal  formulas,  has  been  rendered  sacred  by 
the  zealous  and  successful  labours  of  Brown,  Thomason, 
and  Dealtry.  Kiernandier's  second  wife  died  in  1773. 
She  always  identified  herself  with  his  missionary  plans, 
and  bequeathed  all  her  jewels!  valued  at  600Z.,  to  found  a 
school.  In  1783  he  and  one  of  his  sons  are  said  to  have 
given  400Z.  to  an  endowment  fund.  Four  years  mjnuifortune. 
after,  Eiernandier  himself  was  a  fugitive,  and  andflIght• 
his  Mission  a  wreck.  He  was  unable  to  meet  his  pe- 
cuniary engagements,  and  was  constrained  to  seek  refuge 
under  the  Danish  flag  at  Serampore,  from  whence  he  sub- 
sequently retired  to  Chinsurah.  The  sheriff  seized  all  his 
property,  and  the  church  he  had  erected  was  on  the  point 
of  being  desecrated  by  the  hammer  of  the  auctioneer,  when 
Mr.  Charles  Grant  stepped  forward  and  purchased  it  for 
10002.,  and  appropriated  it  to  the  cause  of  the  Mission  in 
connection  with  the  Christian  Knowledge  Society. 

The  cause  of  Kiernandier's  bankruptcy  cannot  now  be 
traced.  By  some  it  has  been  attributed  to  extravagant  living, 
and  one  author  of  note  has  attempted  to  extract  a  c^^^ 
moral  on  the  folly  of  luxury  and  the  instability  of  «*■«««■"*• 
human  greatness  from  the  history  of  his  prosperity  and  fall. 
But  this  sentimental  picture  rests  on  imagination  and  not  on 
fact.  Kiernandier's  misfortune,  considering  the  character 
of  the  man,  has  been  more  justly  imputed  to  his  impru- 
dence in  standing  security  for  a  spendthrift  son.  The 
severest  accusation  against  him  is,  that  he  sported  a  car- 
riage and  four  in  his  days  of  affluence.  If  the  tradition 
be  correct,  it  is  at  least  certain  that  the  equipage  came 
from  his  wife's  fortune,  and  it  reflects  no  odium  on  the 
missionary  cause.  But  it  is  more  than  improbable.  The 
old  sumptuary  laws  of  the  Company,  passed  at  a  time 
when  the  extravagance  of  their  servants  affected  their 
dividends,  were  still  in  force,  and  they  restricted  the  use 
of  a  coach  and  four  to  the  President  in  Council  under 
severe  penalties.  However  imprudent  Kiernandier  might 
have  been,  it  would  be  unjust  to  his  memory  to  withhold 

c  4 


Digitized  by 


Google 


24  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.        [Chat.  I. 

the  tribute  which  is  due  to  his  liberality  and  zeal.  When 
possessed  of  wealth,  he  employed  it  nobly ;  and  in  an  age 
of  universal  indifference  to  the  sanctions  of  religion,  he  de- 
Bxc«iien<*t  of  voted  his  property  to  the  promotion  of  piety,  and 
w.  character,  labored  personally  in  the  cahse  of  Missions 
with  a  degree  of  zeal  which  has  seldom  been  surpassed. 
Mr.  Carey  has  recorded  that  when  he  visited  Kiernandier 
at  Chinsurah,  in  his  eighty- third  year,  in  1794,  the  ardour 
which  he  manifested  for  the  conversion  of  the  heathen  was 
very  animating,  and  that  he  himself  derived  the  highest 
encouragement  from  his  exhortations. 

The  statistics  of  Kiernandier's  Mission  it  is  not  easy  to 
comprehend.  According  to  the  statements  which  were  pub- 
char.cteri.tic.  lished  he  received  no  fewer  than  1200  communi- 
on... Mi*io«.    cante  between  the  years  1759  and  1786,  and  of 

these 250  are  said,  or  supposed,  to  have  been  pure  natives  of 
Bengal.  At  the  time  of  Kiernandier's  removal  from  Calcutta, 
in  1787,  there  must,  therefore,  have  been  a  large  and  im- 
portant native  Christian  community  in  the  city  and  its 
suburbs.  Yet  when  Mr.  Carey  landed,  six  years  after, 
he  could  not  discover  or  hear  of  a  single  native  who  had 
been  connected  with  Kiernandier's  mission.  Of  the  bap- 
tism of  one  native,  however,  there  is  distinct  record. 
Gunesham-dass,  an  inhabitant  of  Delhi,  joined  the  English 
army  under  Give  at  the  age  of  fifteen,  and  attached  him- 
self to  our  rising  fortunes.  He  was,  perhaps,  the  first 
Hindoo  of  caste  who  crossed  the  u  black  wave"  to  visit  the 
shores  of  England.  He  returned  to  India  with  the  new 
Judges  sent  out  in  1774  to  establish  a  Crown  Court  in 
Calcutta,  and  was  appointed  to  the  office  of  interpreter  and 
translator,  one  of  the  most  lucrative  in  those  days  of 
fortune.  He  attended  Kiernandier's  ministry,  and  having 
previously  thrown  off  his  caste,  now  threw  off  his  religion, 
and  received  Christian  baptism  from  the  missionary,  one 
of  the  judges  of  the  Supreme  Court  standing  sponsor. 
There  is  abundant  evidence  of  the  fact  that  Kiernandier's 
ministry  was  confined  to  the  native  descendants  of  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1792.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  25 

Portuguese  and  other  European  settlers  in  India.  It  is 
stated  in  one  letter  of  the  time,  written  in  Calcutta,  that 
"  it  was  hoped  the  Christian  Knowledge  Society  would  ex- 
tend its  plan,  and  that  the  natives  would  be  addressed  in 
their  own  language  as  they  were  on  the  Coast."  Another 
communication  from  Mr.  Charles  Grant  runs  thus:  — 
u  You  know  that  the  labours  of  the  Mission  Church  have 
been  confined  to  the  descendants  of  Europeans  and  have 
hardly  ever  embraced  a  single  heathen,  so  that  a  mission 
to  the  Hindoos  and  Mohammedans  would  be  a  new  thing.'9 
It  was  always  described  in  the  correspondence  with 
England  as  the  "  Portuguese  Mission,"  and  it  began  and 
ended  with  Kiernandier.  A  feeble  old  man,  M.  Frangel, 
kept  the  Portuguese  congregation  together  for 

Bflhrta  of  thm 

a  time,  but  it  was  gradually  absorbed  in  the  chruaan  Know- 

_        ..    '  •  n  i  a.  i         iedg«  Society  to 

English  congregation  collected  soon  after  under  JgJtoJ*6 
the  ministry  of  the  Rev.  David  Brown.  In  1789 
the  Christian  Knowledge  Society  sent  out  Mr.  Clarke  to  take 
charge  of  the  Mission,but  he  never  applied  to  the  Portuguese 
language,  and,  after  sowing  discord  among  the  European 
attendants,  accepted  a  Government  chaplaincy.  For  eight 
years  the  Society  made  the  most  diligent  search  for  another 
missionary  to  succeed  him,  and  were  at  length  constrained 
to  accept  the  services  of  a  German  minister,  the  Rev. 
Tobias  Ringletaube.  He  never  took  to  his  work  at  the 
church,  and  after  a  twelvemonth  of  lukewarm  service 
returned  to  Europe,  and  he  is  remembered  in  missionary 
annals  only  as  having  afforded  the  enemies  of  Missions  a 
handle  for  ridiculing  them  by  jocular  allusions  to  his  un- 
couth name. 

On  the  departure  of  Kiernandier,  the  services  in  the 
Mission  Church,  in  the  English  language,  were  ThaR4ST# 
taken  up  by  the  Rev.  David  Brown,  to  whose  DaTid  BrowB' 
name  we  shall  have  frequent  occasion  to  refer  in  the  course 
of  this  biography.  Mr.  Brown  was  the  son  of  a  sub- 
stantial farmer  in  Yorkshire,  and  was  introduced,  at  the 
age  of  eleven,  to  the  notice  of  a  clergyman  who  was  pleased 


Digitized  by 


Google 


26  HISTORY  OF  THE   SERAMPOBE  MISSION.         [Chap.  L 

with  his  intelligent  mind,  and  offered  to  take  charge  of  his 
education.  He  resided  with  his  patron  at  Scarborough, 
until  he  was  removed  to  the  grammar  school  at  Hull,  of 
which  the  Rev-  Joseph  Milner  was  then  the  head  master. 
From  thence  he  proceeded  to  Magdalen  College,  Oxford. 
While  he  was  pursuing  his  studies  there  an  institution  was 
established  in  Calcutta  for  the  education  of  the  orphans 
and  children  of  military  officers  in  the  Company's  service. 
The  agent  of  the  institution  was  at  this  time  in  London  in 
search  of  a  master,  and  hearing  of  Mr.  Brown  offered  him 
the  appointment,  with  the  understanding  that  the  number 
of  children  in  the  male  and  female  department  would  not 
exceed  fifty,  and  that  the  salary  would  be  such  as  to  give 
him  a  respectable  maintenance.  But  the  Military  Orphan 
Society  had  adopted  the  rule  of  sending  the  offspring  of 
officers  born  in  wedlock  of  European  parentage  to  Eng- 
land for  education,  and  confining  their  labours  in  India 
to  the  illegitimate  issue  of  native  mothers.  Such  was 
then  the  lax  morality  of  Europeans  in  India,  that  when  the 
institution  came  into  operation  the  number  of  bastard 
children  requiring  admittance  under  this  rule  was  found 
to  amount  to  hundreds.  The  salary  also  turned  out  to  be 
of  smaller  amount  than  had  been  originally  stated  ;  but 
Mr.  Brown,  who  was  always  above  pecuniary  considera- 
tions, signed  the  agreement,  and  accepted  the  charge, 
because  it  opened  a  large  field  of  usefulness  to  him.  He 
then  applied  to  Dr.  Lowth,  the  Bishop  of  London,  for 
ordination,  but  was  peremptorily  refused  on  the  ground 
that  some  whom  he  had  ordained  for  the  Colonies  had  re- 
turned to  England,  and  dishonoured  their  cloth.  Appli- 
cation was  then  made  to  Dr.  Watson,  the  Bishop  of 
Llandaff,  who  hesitated  at  first,  but  at  length  gave  him 
deacon's  orders,  and  some  excellent  advice.  Mr.  Brown 
reached  Calcutta  in  June,  1787,  and  immediately  assumed 
charge  of  the  two  orphan  institutions.  He  found  on  his 
arrival  that  Kiernandier's  missionary  establishment  had 
just  been  broken  up,  and  the  deserted  congregation  at  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1793.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SEBAMPOBE  MISSION.  27 

Mission  Church  seemed  to  claim  the  assistance  of  the  only 
clergyman  who  could  afford  it.  Great  interest  was  there- 
fore made  with  the  governors  of  the  Orphan  Institution  to 
allow  Mr.  Brown  to  preach  at  the  Mission  Church  once  on 
a  Sabbath,  as  he  had  begun  to  do,  but  they  refused  to 
accede  to  the  proposal ;  and  finding  that  Mr.  Brown  per- 
sisted in  giving  his  services  to  the  congregation,  though 
without  in  any  degree  neglecting  his  school  duties,  they 
dismissed  him  from  his  post.  Having  thus  lost  the  means 
of  support,  Mr.  Brown,  in  August,  1788,  opened  his  house 
for  the  reception  of  pupils.  The  school  was  continued  till 
he  was  appointed  a  military  chaplain.  At  the  same  time, 
he  gave  private  instruction  at  Mr.  Grant's  house  to  his 
two  sons  Mr.  Charles  Grant,  subsequently  President  of 
the  Board  <tf  Control  — now  Lord  Glenelg, — and  Mr. 
afterwards  Sir  Robert  Grant,  Governor  of  Bombay. 

In  Calcutta,  Mr.  Brown  found  a  small  band  of  Christian 
friends  of  congenial  sentiments,  and  he  united  cordially 
with  them  in  the  promotion  of  their  plans  of  Mr.  CharIei 
usefulness.  The  most  distinguished  member  of  S^StSS!^ 
this  little  society  was  Mr.  Charles  Grant,  the  mentofIndl'- 
first  man  connected  with  the  Government  of  India  who 
ever  ventured  to  advocate  the  intellectual  and  religious 
improvement  of  the  natives.  It  is  a  humiliating  fact  that 
more  than  half  a  century  elapsed  after  the  establishment  of 
our  power  in  that  country,  before  the  cultivation  of  the 
minds  or  the  elevation  of  the  character  of  the  people  was 
recognised  as  a  public  duty.  At  the  same  time  the  most 
laudable  efforts  were  made  both  in  India  and  in  England 
to  improve  the  administration,  and  make  it  the  instrument 
of  promoting  the  material  happiness  of  our  subjects,  and  of 
protecting  them  from  oppression.  Between  the  years  1774 
and  1794,  the  affairs  of  India  were  brought  more  distinctly 
and  more  earnestly  under  the  cognisance  of  parliament 
than  at  any  previous  or  subsequent  period.  The  most 
eminent  statesmen  of  the  age,  Pitt,  Fox,  Burke,  Sheridan, 
and  Wyndham,  studied  the  condition  and  the  wants  of 

TOL.  I.  *  C  6 


Digitized  by 


Google 


28  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORB  MISSION.        [Chap.  I. 

India  with  the  most  benevolent  solicitude.  Yet  in  no 
speech  or  communication  of  theirs  can  be  traced  the 
faintest  allusion  to  that  duty  which  is  now  considered  the 
most  paramount  and  imperative — the  communication  of 
knowledge  to  the  inhabitants  with  the  view  of  raising 
them  in  the  scale  of  civilisation.  The  time  for  acknow- 
ledging this  noble  responsibility  had  not  then  arrived.  One 
man  alone  of  those  connected  with  the  Government  of 
India  appears  to  have  been  in  advance  of  the  age,  Mr. 
Charles  Grant.  He  went  out  to  India  at  an  early  age, 
and  was  appointed  a  writer  on  the  Bengal  establishment 
in  1773;  and  after  passing  through  various  subordinate 
appointments  became  a  member  of  the  Board  of  Trade  in 
Calcutta.  Amidst  the  universal  scepticism  of  the  day  he 
exhibited  in  his  principles  and  his  practice  a  noble  speci- 
men of  the  Christian  character.  While  all  around  him, 
with  rare  exceptions,  were  absorbed  in  the  pursuit  of 
wealth,  he  devoted  his  attention  to  the  moral  and  religious 
improvement  of  the  natives.  At  that  early  period  he 
appears  to  have  adopted  the  opinion  subsequently  enun- 
ciated by  Sir  Charles  Metcalfe,  that  divine  Providence  had 
assuredly  some  higher  and  nobler  object  in  bestowing  the 
empire  of  India  on  England,  than  to  facilitate  the  export 
or  import  of  cotton-piece  goods.  Mr.  Grant  lost  no  oppor- 
tunity of  promoting  the  instruction  of  the  natives  by  his 
personal  influence  as  well  as  by  pecuniary  donations.  On 
the  bankruptcy  of  Mr.  Kiernandier,  as  we  have  stated,  he 
purchased  the  Church,  and  with  the  cooperation  of  his  two 
friends,  the  Rev.  David  Brown  and  Mr.  Robert  Chambers, 
an  officer  of  the  Supreme  Court,  equally  eminent  as  an 
orientalist  and  a  Christian,  endeavoured  to  maintain  the 
cause  of  religion  in  Calcutta,  in  connection  with  that  Mission. 
It  was  in  these  circumstances  that  Mr.  John  Thomas 
arrived  in  Calcutta,  and  was  introduced  to  this  Christian 
circle.  Mr.  Thomas's  father  was  deacon  of 
ThomL lo«*to    a  Baptist  church  in   Gloucestershire,  and  he 

Calcutta  In  1788.     .,  ,,.  i       -i    i  -i  -•/»  ,  -i. 

himself  had  been  educated  for  the  medical  pro- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1792.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPOEE  MISSION.  29 

fession.  His  practice,  however,  was  not  adequate  to  his 
support,  and  in  1783  he  obtained  an  appointment  in  the 
service  of  the  East  India  Company,  and  proceeded  to 
Calcutta  as  surgeon  of  the  "  Oxford  "  East  Indiaman.  On 
his  arrival  he  sought  the  sympathy  of  religious  society, 
but  without  success.  The  English  community  in  Calcutta 
and  in  the  interior  had  become  orientalised,  and  every 
feeling  of  religion  was  smothered  by  the  pursuit  of  gain. 
There  was  no  indication  that  the  conquerors  of  Bengal 
possessed  any  religion  at  all,  except  the  hoisting  of  the  flag 
on  Sundays,  and  the  official  attendance  of  a  few  at  the 
Sunday  morning  service.  Unable  to  discover  any  kindred 
spirit  in  the  town,  Mr.  Thomas,  whose  course  was  always 
eccentric,  was  induced  to  "  advertise  for  a  Christian,"  as 
he  termed  it.  He  inserted  a  notice  in  the  India  Gazette 
of  the  1st  of  November,  1783,  that  "a  plan  had  been 
formed  for  the  more  effectual  spreading  the  knowledge  of 
Jesus  Christ  and  his  glorious  gospel  in  and  around  Bengal, 
and  all  classes  were  invited  to  come  forward  and  assist  in 
the  undertaking."  Two  responses  were  made  to  this 
appeal,  one  from  the  senior  chaplain,  which  implied  little, 
the  other  from  Mr.  William  Chambers,  stating  "  that  if 
A  B  C" — the  signature  Mr.  Thomas  had  adopted,  "would 
open  a  subscription  for  a  translation  of  the  New  Testament 
into  the  Persian  and  Moorish  languages,  he  would  meet 
with  suitable  encouragement." 

This  movement  led  to  no  result,   and  Mr.   Thomas 
returned  to  England.      In  1786  he  again  embarked  for 
India  in  the  same  vessel  and  the  same  capacity, 
and  on  reaching  Calcutta  was  introduced  to  m  mSTewL 


Mr.  Grant  and  his  friends,  among  whom  he 
enjoyed  the  blessing  of  Christian  communion,  and  in 
whose  religious  meetings  he  took  a  share.  He  had  always 
felt  a  strong  desire  to  be  employed  in  preaching  to  the 
natives  of  the  country,  and  he  now  communicated  these 
views  to  Mr.  Grant,  who  was  greatly  taken  with  Mr. 
Thomas's  zeal  and  ardour,  and  with  that  aptitude  for 


Digitized  by 


Google 


80  HISTORY  OF  THE   SERAMPORE  MISSION.         [Chap.  I. 

communicating  instruction  for  which  he  was  always  re- 
markable. Mr,  Grant  had  at  this  time  obtained  a  large 
grant  of  rent-free  land  at  Goamalty  in  the  vicinity  of 
Malda,  under  an  imperial  grant,  and  established  a  factory 
for  the  cultivation  of  indigo,  then  recently  introduced  into 
the  country.  Having  determined  to  second  Mr,  Thomas's 
views,  he  proposed  to  employ  him  as  a  missionary  in 
this  locality,  and  raised  a  subscription  among  his  friends 
to  enable  him  to  relinquish  the  Company's  service,  and 
devote  his  time  to  the  work  of  Missions,  and  the  establish- 
ment of  a  missionary  station  at  Goamalty.  Mr.  Grant's 
aggregate  contributions  to  this  fund  amounted  to  a  thou- 
sand pounds.  Mr.  Thomas  therefore  left  the  "  Oxford," 
and  removed  to  Malda,  where  he  found  Mr.  Grant's  successor 
at  the  Commercial  Residency,  Mr.  Udny,  a  man  of  great 
benevolence  and  Christian  philanthropy.  There  were 
also  in  the  neighbourhood  several  young  men  employed  in 
the  management  of  Mr.  Grant's  indigo  factories  who  had 
imbibed  his  religious  views;  and  Malda  resembled  an 
oasis  in  the  great  moral  desert  of  India.  Mr.  Thomas 
applied  diligently  to  the  study  of  Bengalee,  which  he 
learned  to  speak  with  great  fluency,  and  he  translated 
some  portions  of  the  New  Testament  into  it,  copies  of 
which  were  multiplied  by  transcription.  The  translation 
was  crude,  and,  in  the  opinion  of  two  of  the  best  judges 
of  the  language  then  in  Bengal,  scarcely  intelligible, 
being  disfigured  by  vulgar  provincialisms. 

Mr.  Thomas  pursued  his  missionary  work  for  nearly 
three  years  in  this  locality  with  much  assiduity,  often 
Mr.Thoma*  passing  two  or  three  months  together  in  his 
boat,  and  itinerating  through  the  country.  He 
appears  to  have  made  a  considerable  impression 
on  the  minds  of  three  natives  of  good  caste,  and  consider- 
able intelligence,  Ram-bosoo,  Parbutee,  and  Mohun-chund. 
Mr.  Thomas  always  entertained  a  higher  opinion  of  their 
sincerity  than  his  European  friends,  and  Mr.  Grant  always 
suspected  their  professions.     But  all  Mr.  Thomas's  zeal 


apparent  suc- 
cess :  defects  of 
his  character. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1793.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  31 

was  unable  to  counterbalance  the  defects  of  his  character. 
He  was  a  man  with  whom  no  permanent  association  of 
labour  could  be  formed.  He  was  well  read  in  the  Scrip- 
tures, possessed  great  fluency  of  address,  and  exhibited 
much  spirituality  of  mind ;  on  the  other  hand,  he  was 
ecstatic  in  his  religious  feelings,  and  so  extravagant  and 
mystical  as  to  bring  his  sincerity  into  question.  He  was 
warm  in  his  attachments,  but  irascible  and  overbearing, 
and  so  intemperate  in  language  as  to  render  all  intercourse 
with  him  hazardous.  Among  a  community  of  Churchmen 
he  obtruded  his  own  denominational  views  with  offensive 
pertinacity.  After  having  alienated  the  minds  of  the  little 
Christian  society  at  Malda,  he  quitted  the  station  and 
embarked  in  speculations,  a  fondness  for  which  he  had 
imbibed  on  the  "  Oxford,"  where  every  officer  had  his  own 
private  adventure.  Of  the  first  principles  of  mercantile 
transactions  he  was  entirely  ignorant,  and  he  was  soon 
overwhelmed  with  debt.  It  was  with  great  reluctance 
that  Mr.  Grant,  on  the  eve  of  his  departure  for  England  in 
1790,  was  constrained  to  withdraw  his  contribution  to 
Mr.  Thomas's  support,  but  it  was  done  with  the  utmost 
delicacy  and  regard  for  his  destitute  situation  in  a  strange 
land.  Mr.  Thomas  determined  at  length  to  return  to  Eng- 
land, and  to  seek  assistance  for  the  establishment  of  a 
Mission  in  Bengal  among  the  religious  friends  in  his  own 
denomination  with  whom  he  had  continued  to  correspond 
while  in  India. 

Previously  to  Mr.  Thomas's  arrival  in  India,  Mr. 
Grant  had  drawn  out,  in  1786,  the  plan  of  a  "  Mission  to 
Bengal."    He  was  not  satisfied  with  the  Portu- 

ijt.      •  /•  tt»  i*  i  •  Mr.  Grant  pro- 

guese  Mission  of  Kiernandier,  and  was  anxious  jecttamu^onary 
that  Christian  truth  should  be  propagated  among 
the  natives  of  the  country  in  the  interior  through  the 
medium  of  their  own  tongue.  While  he  urged  on  the 
Christian  Knowledge  Society  the  necessity  of  sending  out 
a  missionary  to  supply  the  place  of  Mr.  Kiernandier,  he 
kept  constantly  in  view  the  greater  scheme  of  a  Mission, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


32  mSTORT  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.         [Chip.  T. 

as  he  was  accustomed  to  denominate  it.  Mr.  Brown,  who 
was  subsequently  associated  with  him  in  promoting  it, 
describes  it  as  having  embraced  the  division  of  the 
province  into  eight  missionary  circles,  in  each  of  which 
a  young  clergyman  of  the  Church  of  England  was  to  be 
stationed  upon  a  salary  of  350?.  a  year.  He  was  to  be 
employed  in  setting  up  schools,  superintending  catechists, 
and  establishing  churches.  The  support  of  Government 
was  deemed  indispensable  to  success.  Mr.  Brown,  in  his 
remarks  on  this  Proposal  to  establish  a  Protestant  Mis- 
sion in  Bengal,  remarks  that  "  It  requires  only  to  live  a 
month  in  Bengal  to  be  convinced  of  this  fact :  the  Governor 
of  Bengal  is  like  the  head  to  the  body  in  a  more  clear  and 
intimate  manner  than  is  perhaps  known  in  any  other 
country.  Whatever  is  undertaken  without  his  permission, 
or  some  sort  of  provision,  must  wither  and  die."  It  was 
determined,  therefore,  to  break  the  plan  to  Lord  Corn- 
wallis,  the  Governor-General,  and  the  task  was  entrusted 
to  the  two  chaplains.  The  draft  of  their  Address  was 
drawn  up  by  Mr.  Grant,  and  as  it  was  necessary  to  approach 
him  by  "  gentle  gradations,"  and  not  to  startle  his  mind 
abruptly  with  the  idea  of  a  Mission,  the  plan  of  "  native 
schools  was  pressed  on  him  preparatory  to  the  main 
business  of  giving  Christian  light  to  the  heathen."  The 
very  guarded  and  almost  pusillanimous  language  of  the 
Address,  even  on  the  subject  of  secular  education,  shows 
how  entirely  foreign  any  such  proposal  was  to  the  feelings 
of  the  age.  But  the  chaplains  found  it  impossible  to 
make  any  impression  on  Lord  Corn  wallis.  He  manifested 
an  utter  indifference  to  the  conversion  or  even  enlightenment 
of  the  natives.  He  dismissed  them  with  the  remark  that 
"  he  had  no  faith  in  such  schemes,  and  thought  they  must 
prove  ineffectual."  He  thought,  in  fact,  that  our  duty  to 
India  was  complete  when  we  had  framed  a  code  of  laws, 
and  created  a  landed  aristocracy,  and  fixed  the  revenue 
in  perpetuity.  It  does  not  affect  the  benevolence  of  his 
intention  in  these  respects,  that  his  whole  system  has 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1792.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  8ERAMP0RE  MISSION.  33 

proved  an  utter  failure,  and  has  been  the  curse  of  Bengal 
for  sixty  years.  Mr.  Grant,  who  stood  high  in  his  confi- 
dence, then  urged  the  plan  on  his  attention  in  person,  and 
was  requested  to  put  his  thoughts  and  his  arguments  on 
paper.  The  Governor-General  received  the  document  with 
civility,  and  promised  to  read  it,  which  he  probably  never 
did,  and  the  whole  scheme  fell  to  the  ground  in  India. 

But  this  failure  did  not  damp  Mr.  Grant's  ardour.     He 
hoped  to  bring  a  favourable  influence  from  England  to 
bear  on  the  impassive  Government  of  India. 
Copies  of  the  proposals  were  sent  to  the  Arch-  ™SpKffk& 
bishop    of    Canterbury    and    the    Bishop    of 
London,  to  secure  their  patronage;  but,  for  the  general 
promotion  of  the  design  among  Christians  in  England,  and 
the   choice  of  missionaries,  Mr.  Grant  and  his  Indian 
friends  depended  on   the  services  of  the  Rev.   Messrs. 
Romaine,  Newton,  Foster,  and  Cecil  in  London,  and  Mr. 
Simeon   at  Cambridge,  at  that  time  the  most   eminent 
ministers  of  the  evangelical  section  of  the  Church.     At 
the  same  time  the  promoters  of  the  scheme  addressed  a 
letter  to  Mr.  Wilberforce,  to  interest  him  in  the  cause  of 
Indian  Missions,  and  to  obtain  the  benefit  of  his  influence. 
In  their  letter  to  him,  drawn  up  by  Mr.  Grant,  they  say, 
"  had  this  subject  been  attended  to  twenty  years  ago,  one 
religion    and    one    language   might  have   been   diffused 
through  these  provinces.      Late  as  it  is,  this  great  object 
still  remains  within  reach,  and  we  cannot  but  be  persuaded 
that  it  might  prove  the  solid  glory  of  his  Majesty's  reign. 
Would  it  be  too  much  for  subjects  who  are  cordially 
devoted  to  him,  and  love  that  glory,  to  hope  that  he  might 
countenance  such  a  scheme  ?"    They  add  that  the  patronage 
of  the  public  Authorities  in  England,  and   "a  recom- 
mendation to  the  Government  in  India  to  countenance 
and  protect  the  work,  and  to  afford  missionaries  small 
portions  of  land  (of  which  there  was  much  to   spare), 
whereon,  to  establish  themselves,  erect  schools  and  receive 
converts,  would  be  sufficient."     This  letter  was  dated  in 

VOL.  I.  D 


Digitized  by 


Google 


34  BISTORT  OF  THE   SERAMPORE  MISSION.        [Chap.  I. 

September,  1787,  and  appears  to  have  been  the  first 
occasion  on  which  Mr.  WUberforce's  attention  was  drawn 
to  the  subject  of  Missions  in  India,  to  the  establishment  of 
which  he  devoted  his  fine  talents  and  his  powerful  influence 
with  untiring  zeal  for  the  next  fifteen  years.  Mr.  Grant 
likewise  sent  copies  of  the  proposal  to  his  friend  and 
correspondent  in  London,  Mr.  Raikes,  the  brother  of  that 
eminent  benefactor  of  England,  the  founder  of  Sunday 
Schools,  with  a  request  that  he  would  urge  it  on  the  digni- 
taries of  the  Church.  The  Archbishop  of  Canterbury 
entertained  it  with  a  degree  of  caution  bordering  on  luke- 
warmness;  and  the  Bishop  of  London,  while  he  wished 
every  success  to  so  benevolent  a  project,  declined  to  take 
any  active  part  in  promoting  it,  on  the  ground  that  he  had 
entered  earnestly  into  Mr.  Wilberforce's  views  for  the 
amelioration  of  the  condition  of  the  slaves  in  the  West 
Indies,  and  had  no  leisure  to  bestow  on  the  East. 

The  project  languished  till  the  return  of  Mr.  Grant  to 
England  in  1790,  when  he  took  up  the  thread  of  the  nego- 
project  taken  uP  tiations,  and  spared  no  effort  to  enlist  the  sup- 
5™*™  &*£  port  of  those  who  presided  over  the  Church 

couragement  except  from  Mr.  Wilberforce,  who  engaged 
at  once  to  introduce  the  subject  to  the  Archbishop  and 
the  Bishop  of  London.  The  Bishop  was  civil  and  favour- 
able, but  referred  him  in  the  first  instance  to  the  Arch- 
bishop, the  East  being  within  his  province.  But  the 
Archbishop  gave  no  indication  of  any  interest  in  the 
proposal,  and  Mr.  Grant  at  length  ventured  to  wait  on 
him  at  Lambeth.  The  prelate  received  him  graciously, 
expressed  his  high  approbation  of  the  scheme  of  a  Mission 
to  Bengal,  and  announced  his  intention  of  mentioning  the 
subject  to  the  King  and  to  Mr.  Pitt.  Mr.  Grant  then 
called  on  Mr.  Wilberforce  to  report  the  progress  he  had 
made,  and  learnt  that  a  new  paper  must  be  drawn  up 
more  suited  to  the  meridian  of  England.  Mr.  Wilber- 
force's communications  on  the  subject  with  his  friends  in 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1792.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  35 

power  had  impressed  on  his  mind  the  conviction  that 
"  any  direct  idea  of  a  large  Mission  for  the  conversion  of 
the  country  appeared  too  formidable  at  a  time  when 
Europe  was  in  a  state  of  fermentation.  The  proposal 
must  be  limited  to  the  diffusion  of  knowledge  generally, 
leaving  it  to  be  inferred  that  Christianity  would  be  in- 
cluded in  the  plan."  With  great  reluctance  Mr.  Grant 
went  through  the  painful  task  of  weeding  the  paper,  and 
he  found  that  the  argument  was  weakened,  and  the  pro- 
posal dwarfed  in  proportion  as  it  was  deprived  of  its 
religious  character.  The  document,  thus  modified,  was 
submitted  to  Mr.  Wilberforce,  and  to  Mr.  Eliot,  Mr. 
Pitt's  brother-in-law,  who  had  manifested  a  deep  interest 
in  the  success  of  the  undertaking.  From  their  knowledge 
of  the  opinion  entertained  on  this  question  in  the  highest 
political  circle,  they  considered  that  it  was  still  too  mis- 
sionary in  its  character,  because  education  and  civilisation 
were  evidently  intended  to  be  subservient  to  the  design  of 
conversion.  They  advised  him  to  subject  it  to  another 
revision,  and  likewise  to  abandon  the  plan  which  he  had 
advised,  of  leaning  for  pecuniary  support  on  the  revenue 
of  the  lands  which  would  be  benefited  by  these  mental 
and  moral  improvements,  and  to  trust  to  voluntary  contri- 
butions. The  paper  was  a  second  time  remodelled,  and 
Mr.  Grant  transmitted  it  to  the  Archbishop  of  Canterbury, 
with  an  urgent  request  that  some  decisive  movement 
should  be  made  before  the  departure  of  the  next  spring 
fleet. 

Four  weeks  elapsed  without  any  communication  from 
Lambeth,  and  Mr.  Grant,  impatient  of  delay,  again  ven- 
tured, unbidden,  into  the  presence.of  the  Arch- 
bishop, Dr.  Moore,  who  offered  many  apologies  ^nnjuwtiaimm 
for  not  having  acknowledged  the  receipt  of  his 
letter.  He  expressed  regret  for  the  moral  and  religious 
condition  of  our  Asiatic  subjects,  and  said  that  he  himself 
was  decidedly  favourable  to  the  plan  detailed  in  the  able 
paper  which  had  been   sent  to  him,  but  such  was  the 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


36  HISTORY   OF  THE   SERA M PORE   MISSION.         [Chaf.  I. 

nature  of  some  particular  portions  of  it,  and  such  was  the 
present  state  of  affairs,  that  time  must  be  allowed  for  the 
consideration  of  it,  and  that  the  idea  of  setting  it  on  foot 
before  the  ships  sailed  was  utterly  impracticable.  He 
stated  that  he  had  gone  so  far  as  to  introduce  the  subject 
to  his  Majesty,  who  had  replied  that  "humanity  alone 
would  induce  attention  to  it."  The  Archbishop  then  en- 
gaged to  bring  the  subject  again  to  the  notice  of  the  King 
on  the  first  favourable  opportunity,  and  if  it  received  his 
approbation,  "to  speak  to  Mr.  Pitt,  and  get  the  business 
brought  forward  by  the  Board  of  Control  and  the  Court 
of  Directors."  Mr.  Grant  retired  with  a  heart  sickened  by 
the  discouragements  which  his  plan  had  encountered,  and 
after  an  interval  of  several  weeks  wrote  to  his  friends  in 
India,  "As  to  the  great  Mission  scheme,  it  still  rests  with 
the  same  great  man,  who  promises,  and  I  dare  say,  means 
fair,  but  perhaps  waits  for  a  smooth  road,  which  he  may 
be  long  in  finding."  After  a  considerable  interval,  the 
Archbishop  submitted  the  plan  again  to  the  King,  who 
appeared  to  feel  the  propriety  and  even  the  importance  of 
the  scheme,  but  hesitated  to  countenance  it,  "  chiefly  in 
consequence  of  the  alarming  progress  of  the  French  Revo- 
lution, and  the  proneness  of  the  period  to  movements  sub- 
versive of  the  established  order  of  things."  From  the 
King,  therefore,  Mr.  Grant  had  nothing  to  hope  on  behalf 
of  a  scheme  which  involved  innovations.  The  Archbishop 
had  also  mentioned  the  subject  of  the  Bengal  Mission  to 
Mr.  Pitt  and  Mr.  Dundas,  and  found  them  "on  the  whole 
favourably  disposed." 

The  period  for  renewing  the  Charter  of  the  East  India 
Company  was  now  approaching,  and  Mr.  Grant  looked  for- 
ward to  it  with  feelings  of  great  anxiety.  He 
comV-nj?  e  hoped  that  some  provision  would  be  made  for 
those  plans  of  improvement  in  India  which  he  had 
been  urging  for  seven  years,  and  for  the  promotion  of  which 
he  had  moved  the  Episcopal  Bench,  the  Ministry,  and  the 
King.  The  IndiaBill  was  introduced  in  1793  by  Mr.  Dundas, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1792.]  HISTOBY  OF  THE   SERAMPOBE  MIS8ION.  37 

the  ablest,  beyond  all  comparison,  of  the  India  Ministers  of 
the  last  seventy  years ;  but  his  Bill  was  found  to  be  silent 
on  the  subject  of  any  mental  or  moral  improvement.  Every 
interest  was  provided  for  in  it  except  that  of  religion.     It 
was  determined,  however,  by  the  friends  of  Indian  evangeli- 
sation that  the  occasion  should  not  be  allowed  to  pass 
without  a  strenuous  effort,  and  Mr.  Wilberforce  willingly 
took  charge  of  the  question.     After  the  Bill  had  been  fully 
discussed,  he  proposed  two  resolutions: — "First, — That 
it  is  the  opinion  of  this  House  that  it  is  the  Mr#wnberforce.8 
peculiar  and  bounden  duty  of  the  legislature  to  hSSJSc!!? 
promote,  by  all  just  and  prudent  means,  the  moM' 
interests  and  happiness  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  British 
dominions  in   the  East;   and  that  for  these  ends  such 
measures  ought  to  be  adopted  as  may  gradually  tend  to 
their  advancement    in  useful  knowledge  and  to  their 
religious  and  moral  improvement."    The  second  resolution 
referred  to  the  provision  of  sufficient  means  of  religious 
instruction  for  all  persons  of  the  Protestant  communion 
in  India,  and  the  maintenance  of  a  chaplain  on  every  ship 
of  500  tons  burden   and  upwards.      Mr.  Wilberforce's 
influence  with  the  Ministry,  and  the  great  personal  esteem 
he  enjoyed  in  the  house,  enabled  him  to  carry    these 
resolutions,  and  they  were  entered  on  the  journals.     The 
heart  of  Mr.  Grant  and  his  associates. beat  high  at  this 
unexpected  token  of  success,  and  their  expectations  became 
very  sanguine.    Mr.  Wilberforce  makes  the  following  note  y 
in  his  journal: — "Through   God's   help,  got  the  East 
India  resolutions  in  quietly.  .  .  .  The  hand  of  Providence 
was  never  more  visible  than  in  this  Indian  affair."     The 
resolutions  were  then  placed  in  the  hands  of  the  Attorney 
and  the  Solicitor-general.   They  considered  that  the  general 
terms  of  the  first  resolution,  to  be  legally  efficacious,  must 
be  embodied  in  specific  language,  and  that  the  measure  to 
be  pursued  for  the  moral  and  religious  improvement  of  the 
people  of  India,  was  the  encouragement  of  missionaries 
and  schoolmasters.     They  accordingly  drew  up  a  clause 

D   3 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


Review  of 
ceedings  in  India. 


pro- 
India. 


38  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  [Chap.  I. 

to  be  inserted  in  the  Bill,  which  contained  these  two 
portentous  words.  The  India  House  was  seized  with  a 
panic,  which  led  to  an  unexpected  and  violent  explosion  ; 
the  clauses  were  quashed,  and  the  improvement  of  India, 
as  far  as  the  public  Authorities  were  concerned,  was 
thrown  back  twenty  years. 

To  explain  this  transaction,  it  will  be  necessary  to  ask 
the  reader's  attention  to  previous  movements  in  India, 
and  to  the  origin  and  progress  of  those  feelings 
which  produced  this  disastrous  result 

The  Court  of  Directors,  while  existing  only  as  a  com- 
mercial body,  appear  to  have  taken  much  interest  in  the 
religious  instruction  of  the  natives  who  were  brought 
under  their  influence.  Not  only  were  missionaries  allowed 
to  embark  in  their  ships  with  the  recognised  character  of 
Christian  teachers,  but  a  laudable  desire  was  manifested  to 
encourage  their  labours.  In  1659,  the  Directors  informed 
the  President  at  Madras  that  it  was  "their  earnest  desire, 
by  all  possible  means,  to  propagate  the  Gospel  in  those 
parts."  In  1677,  they  sent  out  Mr.  Ralph  Orde  as  school- 
master, on  501.  a  year,  who  was  "  to  teach  all  the  children 
to  read  English,  and  to  write  and  cipher  gratis ;  and  if 
any  of  the  other  nations,  such  as  Portuguese,  Gentoos,  or 
others,  would  send  their  children  to  school,  we  require 
that  they  also  be  -taught  gratis :  he  is  to  instruct  them  in 
the  Protestant  religion,  and  to  diet  at  our  table."  The 
same  spirit  of  benevolence  was  exhibited  in  Parliament. 
A  missionary  clause  was  inserted  in  the  Charter  of  1698, 
directing  the  Company  to  maintain  a  minister  of  religion 
at  their  stations,  who  was  required  not  only  to  master  the 
Portuguese  tongue,  but  to  "  apply  to  the  languages  of  the 
country,  that  he  might  be  able  to  instruct  the  Gentoos 
who  shall  be  servants  or  slaves  of  the  Company,  or  their 
agents,  in  the  Protestant  religion."  Schoolmasters  were 
likewise  to  be  provided  in  every  garrison  and  superior 
station.  Towards  the  middle  of  the  last  century,  while 
the  East  India  Company  were  engaged  in  a  struggle  for 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1792.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMFOBE  MISSION.  39 

its  existence  on  the  Coast  with  the  genius  and  resources  of 
their  French  rivals,  they  appear  to  have  taken  Early  ^^^ 
increased  interest  in  the  efforts  made  for  the  ofmUgionfc 
diffusion  of  Christian  truth.  In  a  despatch  to  Madras  in 
1752,  they  said,  "  and  as  a  further  encouragement  to  the 
said  missionaries  to  exert  themselves  in  propagating  the 
Protestant  religion,  we  hereby  empower  you  to  give  them, 
at  such  time  as  you  shall  think  proper,  in  our  name,  any 
sum  of  money  not  exceeding  500  pagodas,  to  be  laid  out 
in  such  manner  and  appropriated  to  such  uses  as  you 
shall  approve  of.  And  you  are  hereby  directed  to  give 
us  from  time  to  time  an  account  of  the  progress  made 
by  them  in  educating  children  and  increasing  the  Pro- 
testant religion,  together  with  your  opinion  on  their  con- 
duct in  general,  and  what  further  encouragement  they 
deserve." 

After  this  period  all  reference  to  the  encouragement  of 
missionary  labours  ceases  in  the  despatches  from  or  to 
Leadenhall  Street.  In  1757,  the  battle  of  Plassey  trans- 
formed the  Company  from  merchants  to  sovereigns,  and 
the  factory  of  Calcutta  became  the  capital  of  a  great 
empire.  Those  who  had  for  half  a  century  crouched 
before  the  Nabob  of  Moorshedabad,  and  endeavoured  to 
propitiate  him  by  bribing  his  favourites,  were  now  the 
masters  of  the  •country.  They  set  up  a  Nabob  of  their 
own,  and  ruled  with  absolute  sway  over  provinces  larger 
than  Great  Britain,  and  inhabited  by  a  population  of  thirty 
millions  —  and  all  desire  to  impart  knowledge,  secular 
or  divine,  to  the  people  of  India  was  at  once  quenched. 
Indeed,  the  repugnance  of  Government  on  both  sides 
the  water  to  all  missionary  or  educational  exertions 
seemed  to  increase  as  British  influence  became 
more  extended,  and  facilities  for  doing  good  *!£9!a$5S& 

,    .    ..      '         „..  .      ..  .  i.i      moral*  in  India. 

were  multiplied.     The  irresistible  power  which 
Government  had  acquired  by  its  military  success  was 
employed  only  for  the  personal  advantage  of  its  public 
servants.     A  boundless  field  was  suddenly  opened  before 

p  4 


Digitized  by 


Google 


40  HISTORY  OF  THE   SBRAMPOBB  MISSION*         [Chap.  L 

them  for  the  gratification  of  ambition  and  cupidity,  and 
every  thought  was  absorbed  in  the  accumulation  of  wealth, 
without  any  qualms  of  conscience  as  to  the  mode  of  its 
acquisition.  The  allowances  of  the  public  functionaries 
in  India  were  inadequate  even  to  their  decent  maintenance, 
yet  they  were  enabled  to  indulge  in  every  species  of 
extravagance,  and  to  return  to  England  with  fortunes  so 
colossal  as  to  excite  the  envy  of  its  landed  aristocracy. 
The  process  of  turning  power  into  money,  which  had 
been  practised  in  the  East  from  time  immemorial,  was  one 
of  the  first  lessons  which  the  new  conquerors  learnt,  and 
the  scenes  of  injustice  and  oppression  which  were  daily 
exhibited,  make  us  to  this  day  blush  for  the  degradation 
of  the  British  name. 

The  Court  of  Directors  could  impose  but  a  feeble  check 
on  these  disorders.     It  was  in  vain  that  they  investigated 

these  disorders  in  India,  and  stated  that  "  in 
in^hZZLy    the  complicated  scenes  of  corruption  which  had 

been  revealed  they  found  gentlemen  who  had 
served  in  the  highest  offices  implicated,  who  had  shown 
that  no  ties  of  honour  could  control  that  unbounded  thirst 
for  riches  which  pervaded  the  whole  settlement,  and 
threatened  a  dissolution  of  all  government."  It  was  in 
vain  they  denounced  the  avarice  of  their  servants,  who  had 
acquired  vast  fortunes  by  "  the  most  tyrannic  and  oppres- 
sive conduct  that  was  ever  known  in  any  age  or  country." 
Their  authority  was  despised  and  their  orders  set  at 
nought  by  the  ingenuity  and  audacity  of  their  servants 
abroad.  Parliament  was  at  length  required  to  interpose 
its  authority  to  check  these  crimes;  and  a  Royal  Court 
was  established  at  Calcutta,  in  1774,  to  protect  the  natives 
from  oppression.  By  this  time  the  first  harvest  had  been 
reaped.  The  richest  fruit  of  the  pagoda  tree,  according 
to  the  cant  of  the  day,  had  been  shaken  down,  and  the 
rapid  and  profligate  creation  of  ambitious  fortunes  had 
subsided.  Still  the  weakness  and  distraction  of  the  Go- 
vernment, and  the   strength  of   the.  English  character, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1792.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SEBAMPORB  MISSION.  41 

acting  on  Asiatic  tiftiidity,  afforded  ample  opportunities 
for  amassing  wealth.  Twelve  years  after  the  passing  of 
the  Regulating  Act,  as  the  Act  of  1774  was  denominated, 
Sir  John  Shore  stated  that  he  could  have  realised  10,000J. 
a-year  if  he  had  not  been  burdened  with  a  conscience. 
At  the  same  time,  the  number  of  English  ladies  in  the 
country  was  lamentably  small,  and  the  virtuous  influence 
of  female  society  was  scarcely  felt  in  the  mass  of  society. 
In  the  days  of  Warren  Hastings  the  arrival  of  a  spinster 
from  England  was  an  event,  and  it  was  inaugurated  by  a 
succession  of  balls.  The  great  bulk  of  the  Europeans, 
both  in  and  out  of  the  service,  lived  unmarried  with  native 
females,  and  their  leisure  was  spent  in  the  most  debasing 
associations.  The  young  civilian  was  told  that  one  of  his 
first  duties  was  to  "  stock  a  zenana,"  and  his  mistress  was 
facetiously  said  to  be  the  best  moonshee  in  the  country. 
Major  Stanhope,  writing  in  1774,  said  that  the  "  luxury 
of  a  large  seraglio  was  reserved  for  those  who  were  high 
in  the  service,  and  received  large  emoluments."  The  in- 
fluence of  Christian  principle  was  almost  extinct  in  Euro- 
pean society.  Those  who  had  disregarded  all  the  sanctions 
of  Christianity  found  no  difficulty  in  disbelieving  its  Divine 
origin,  and  a  deadly  taint  of  impiety  pervaded  the  whole 
community.  At  the  same  time,  the  degrading  idolatry  of 
the  natives  was  regarded  with  complacency,  even  when  it 
was  not  affirmed  to  be  equally  acceptable  to  the  Deity  with 
the  homage  of  Christian  worship.  Any  idea  of  disturbing 
the  u  religious  prejudices  "  of  the  natives  was  regarded 
with  a  feeling  of  resentment.  For  a  quarter  of  a  century 
after  the  battle  of  Plassey,  Calcutta  presented  a  scene  of 
such  unblushing  licentiousness,  avarice,  and  infidelity  as 
had  never  been  witnessed  before  under  the  British  flag. 
England  had  subdued  Bengal,  and  Bengal  had  subdued 
the  morals  of  its  conquerors. 

During  the  mercantile  period  of  the  Company's  career, 
it  was  rarely  that  any  of  their  Indian  servants  sought 
admission  into  the  Direction  on  their  return  to  England, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


42  HISTORY   OF  THE   SERAMPOBE   MISSION.         TChap.  I. 

and,  during  the  first  half  of  the  last  century,  it  is  difficult 
to  discover  the  names  of  any  civilians  on  the  Board.    But 

when  an  Indian  appointment  opened  the  path 
SfirtSH'    *°  TB,V^  fortune  .and  distinction,  a  seat  in  the 

Direction  became  an  object  of  competition. 
Those  who  had  amassed  fortunes  in  India  naturally 
coveted  a  position  which  enabled  tfcem  to  send  out  their 
sons  and  relatives  to  pursue  the  same  career  of  aggran- 
disement. The  Direction  became  crowded  with  "old 
Indians;15  and  though  they  might  have  accumulated 
wealth  by  less  objectionable  means  than  those  who  got  up 
revolutions  at  Moorshedabad  simply  to  gratify  their  own 
avarice,  they  brought  home  with  them  not  the  less  the 
prevailing  indifference  to  Christian  truth,  and  a  respect  for 
the  superstitions  of  the  natives,  and  a  resolute  determination 
not  to  allow  them  to  be  disturbed  by  fanaticism.  It  was 
at  a  time  when  this  Oriental  and  Brahminised  element  was 
preponderant  in  the  Court  of  Directors  and  the  Court  of 
Proprietors,  that  the  clause  regarding  the  encouragement 
of  missionaries  and  schoolmasters  was  inserted  in  the  new 
Charter.  If  a  petard  had  suddenly  burst  in  the  midst  of 
that  body,  it  could  scarcely  have  occasioned  greater  con- 
sternation. It  appeared  to  their  bewildered  minds  as  if 
the  British  empire  in  India  must  melt  away  as  soon  as 
the  ministers  of  improvement  touched  its  shores,  and  the 

"  old  Indians"  determined  to  seize  the  first  op- 
jjitK     portunity  of  suppressing  the  clauses.    It  was 

ascertained  that  they  emanated  from  the 
"  saints,"  and  not  from  the  Board  of  Control ;  and  it  was 
whispered  that  Mr.  Dundas  had  given  a  reluctant  consent 
to  Mr.  Wilberforce's  resolutions,  and  that  many  of  those 
who  had  been  prevailed  on  to  vote  for  them,  only  wanted  a 
decent  pretext  for  voting  them  out  of  the  BilL  On  the 
22nd  of  May  a  ballot  had  been  taken  on  some  unimportant 
occasion,  and  the  next  day  there  was  a  kind  of  General  Court 
held,  but  without  advertisement,  for  the  simple  object  of 
receiving  the  report  of  it.     Advantage  was  taken  of  this 


Digitized  by 


Google 


17950  HISTORY  OF  THE  SBBAMPORB  MISSION.  43 

circumstance  to  bring  on  a  discussion  in  the  absence  of 
many  who  would  have  strenuously  supported  the  clauses. 
There  was  but  one  friend  of  Mr.  Wilberforce's  present, 
Mr.  Thornton,  and  the  enemies  of  Missions  and  of  edu- 
cation had  the  field  entirely  to  themselves.  It  is  worthy 
of  special  notice  that  all  the  most  violent  speakers  con- 
sisted of  men  who  h$d  passed  their  lives  in  India. 

Mr.  Lushington,  who  had  accumulated  a  large  fortune 
in  India,  opened  the  debate  by  stating  his  objections  to 
the  whole  of  the  clause  respecting  sending  out 
missionaries  to  India.  He  supported  his  objec-  c<2rt*fp£! 
tions  by  arguments  drawn  from  his  own  per-  ****" 
sonal  observations,  and  "  corroborated  by  that  of  every 
gentleman  who  had  resided  in  India,  with  whom  he  had 
conversed  on  the  subject.  If  the  conversion  of  the  natives 
to  Christianity  was  the  object,  nothing  could  be  more 
extravagant  than  such  a  hope ;  every  possible  means  had 
been  used  by  Catholic  priests  without  success;  because 
the  religion  of  the  natives  was  too  deeply  rooted  to  admit 
of  change."  He  said  he  had  hoped  the  age  was  become 
too  enlightened  for  an  attempt  to  make  proselytes,  and 
that,  in  this  country  in  particular,  such  policy  had  long 
been  exploded.  As  to  the  sending  out  of  missionaries 
and  schoolmasters,  whom  he  styled  adventurers,  he  said 
he  did  not  think  young  gentlemen  fresh  from  the  Uni- 
versity, with  habits  considerably  pleasurable  and  morals 
not  the  most  rigid,  who  would  go  to  India  with  ideas  of 
acquiring  wealth  in  some  way  or  other,  much  calculated 
to  increase  the  respect  due  to  our  holy  religion;  he 
thought  they  ought  to  be  from  thirty  to  forty  years  of 
age ;  but  the  clause  seemed  to  him  so  dangerous  in  every 
point  of  view,  that  he  hoped  it  would  be  resisted  in  toto 
as  a  measure  likely  to  affect  the  peace  and  ultimate 
security  of  our  possessions.  Mr.  Thornton,  on  the  part  of 
Wilberforce,  defended  the  clause,  and  endeavoured  to  set 
the  Proprietors  right  regarding  its  object.  He  said  that 
Mr.  Wilberforce  wished  to  provide  for  the  good  of  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


44  HISTORY   OF   THE    SERAMPORE   MISSION,         [Chap.  I. 

natives  of  India,  and  that  instilling  the  virtuous  and 
moral  principles  of  the  religion  of  the  Church  of  England 
into  their  minds  was  the  most  probable  means  of  effecting 
so  desirable  a  purpose.  Mr.  Thornton  disclaimed,  on  his 
own  part,  and  on  that  of  his  honourable  friend,  any  idea  of 
making  proselytes  of  the  Indians,  or  sending  missionaries 
to  overrun  the  country  with  a  view  of  obtaining  converts. 
At  the  same  time,  if  any  of  the  natives  should  be  willing 
or  desirous  of  having  the  benefit  of  instruction,  which 
could  be  given  them  by  Protestant  missionaries  and 
schoolmasters,  he  thought  it  perfectly  wise  to  give  them 
an  opportunity  of  obtaining  that  benefit;  and  in  case 
they  should  of  their  own  accord  choose  to  enter  into  the 
communion  of  the  Protestant  Church,  that  the  means  of 
receiving  them  might  be  provided.  Mr.  Lushington  then 
rose  and  renewed  his  attack  on  the  clause,  as  impolitic, 
unnecessary,  and  unlimited  in  point  of  expense.  He 
thanked  God  that  if  the  conversion  of  the  natives  was  the 
avowed  object  of  the  clause, — as  he  believed  it  to  be  its  real 
though  concealed  aim, — the  effecting  it  would  be  a  matter 
of  impracticability.  He.  was  fully  convinced  that  suffering 
clergymen,  under  the  name  of  missionaries,  or  any  other 
name,  to  overrun  India,  and  penetrate  the  interior  parts 
of  it,  would  in  the  first  instance.be  dangerous,  and  prove 
utterly  destructive  of  the  Company's  interests,  if  not 
wholly  annihilate  their  power  in  Hindostan ;  that  so  far 
from  wishing  that  they  might  make  converts  of  ten,  fifty, 
or  a  hundred  thousand  natives  of  any  degree  of  character, 
he  should  lament  such  a  circumstance  as  the  most  serious 
and  fatal  disaster  that  could  happen.  What  was  more 
strongly  a  common  cause  with  mankind  than  holding  one 
faith  and  professing  the  same  religion  ?  The  moment 
that  event  took  place  in  India,  there  was  an  end  of  British 
supremacy.  Mr.  Thornton  said,  in  reply,  that  he  so  far 
differed  from  Mr.  Lushington,  that  if  ten,  fifty,  or  a 
hundred  thousand  natives  should  be  converted,  he  valued 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1793.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  8ERAMPOEE  MISSION.  45 

our  religion  so  highly  as  to  deem  such  conversion  a  happy 
circumstance. 

The  views  of  other  Directors  and  Proprietors  were  also 
drawn  forth  in  the  course  of  the  debate.  Mr.  Henchman, 
one  of  the  most  bustling  and  influential  men  in  the  Court, 
reprobated  the  proposal,  and  said  that  no  other  converts 
could  be  expected  but  some  of  the  very  dregs  of  the 
people  —  men  who  had  no  sincerity,  and  who  cared  not 
what  religion  they  affected,  provided  it  served  their 
interest  for  the  moment ;  and  that  the  attempt  to  convert 
the  natives  could  end  only  in  producing  disturbances,  or 
in  bringing  the  Christian  religion  into  contempt.  Mr. 
Montgomery  Campbell,  who  had  been  in  the  civil  service 
at  Madras,  and  witnessed  the  success  of  Schwartz  and  his 
fellow-labourers,  but  without  allowing  himself  to  believe 
its  reality,  said  that  the  attempt  to  make  converts  of  the 
heathen  was  most  absurd  and  impracticable;  that  none 
but  the  dregs  of  the  people  could  be  made  to  profess 
themselves  proselytes,  but  they  were  a  worthless  set  of 
beings ;  that  the  higher  and  more  respectable  natives  were 
men  of  the  purest  morality  and  the  strictest  virtue.  Mr. 
Bensley  said,  that  so  far  from  approving  of  the  clause,  or 
listening  to  it  with  patience,  from  the  first  moment  he 
heard  of  it,  he  considered  it  as  the  most  wild,  extravagant, 
expensive,  and  unjustifiable  project  that  ever  was  suggested 
by  the  most  visionary  speculator.  Mr.  Randle  Jackson 
said,  that  wherever  he  was,  he  had  always  the  interest 
of  .the  Company  at  heart ;  that  the  clause  was  so  obnoxious 
in  principle  that  it  ought  to  be  resisted;  that  one  of  the 
leading  and  most  efficient  causes  of  the  separation  of 
America  from  England,  as  the  mother  country,  was  the 
founding  of  Colleges  and  establishing  seminaries  for  edu- 
cation in  the  different  provinces;  and  he  entirely  con- 
curred with  his  honourable  friend  Mr.  Henchman,  that 
sound  policy  dictated  that  we  should,  in  the  case  of 
India,  avoid  and  steer  clear  of  the  rock  we  had  split  on  in 
America.     Mr.  Prinsep  said,  it  had  been  his  lot  to  spend 


Digitized  by 


Google 


46  HISTORY   OF   THE    8BRAMPORB    MISSION.        [Chap.  I. 

the  greater  part  of  his  life  in  the  interior  of  India,  and 
that  "  he  knew  from  experience  that  to  expect  to  make 
converts  of  the  natives  was  an  idle,  absurd,  and  imprac- 
ticable object,  and  that  the  only  possible  way  of  effecting 
such  a  purpose  would  be  by  doing  that  which  he  was 
persuaded  the  Company  would  never  countenance,  viz., 
by  purchasing  the  children  of  the  poorer  natives,  and 
educating  them  in  the  principles  of  the  Protestant  faith ; 
but  that  so  adverse  was  be  to  the  clause  that  sooner  than 
acquiesce  in  it  he  would  give  up  the  Bill  altogether.,, 
A  resolution  was  passed  with  eager  haste  condemning  the 
clause,  and  the  Directors  who  were  members  of  the  House 
were  requested  to  appear  in  their  place  and  vote  against 
it. 

Such  were  found  to  be  the  sentiments  of  those  who 
were  entrusted  with  the  government  of  India,  when  the 
question  of  imparting  secular  and  religious 
S^!^1.  knowledge  to  its  inhabitants  was  brought 
under  discussion  for  the  first  time  since  the 
establishment  of  the  empire.  The  enjoyment  of  power  all 
but  unlimited  had  produced  the  usual  effect  of  extin- 
guishing every  generous  emotion,  and  creating  feelings  of 
the  most  intense  selfishness.  The  proposal  to  enlighten 
the  natives  of  India  was  reprobated  by  an  overwhelming 
majority,  simply  because  it  was  supposed  to  be  incompa- 
tible with  the  maintenance  of  their  own  power  and  privi- 
leges. The  natives  of  India  were  to  be  kept  in  a 
state  of  perpetual  ignorance,  and  denied  the  means -of 
mental  advancement,  that  England  might  be  enabled  to 
hold  the  country  without  trouble,  and  monopolise  its 
trade,  and  drain  its  revenues.  Every  idea  of  proselyting 
the  people — that  is,  of  giving  them  the  ennobling  truths  of 
the  Bible  in  exchange  for  the  fables  of  the  Poorans — was 
pronounced  to  be  too  absurd  for  so  enlightened  an  age. 
If  the  speakers  had  objected  to  Mr.  Wilberforce's  proposal 
that  it  seemed  to  imply  the  employment  of  missionaries 
under  the  agency  of  Government,  which  was  repugnant  to 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1793.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  47 

the  sound  policy  of  neutrality,  the  argument  would  have 
been  unanswerable.  But  the  objection  was  directed 
against  every  attempt  which  might  be  made  in  the  cause, 
by  private  individuals,  totally  unconnected  with  the  State. 
The  Court  of  Directors  were  at  this  time  invested  with 
absolute  power  to  exclude  or  to  banish  from  India  any 
one  who  contravened  their  wishes,  and  from  their  decision 
there  was  no  appeal.  The  resolution  thus  passed  at  the 
India  House  was  therefore  equivalent  to  the  entire  exclu- 
sion of  Christian  truth  and  secular  knowledge  from  India 
during  the  continuance  of  the  Company.  It  was  on  this 
unworthy  principle  that  the  India  Authorities  acted  during 
the  currency  of  the  Charter,  then  about  to  be  given  for 
twenty  years.  It  was  against  this  stern  and  implacable 
opposition  to  all  missionary  efforts  that  Mr.  Carey  and  his 
associates  were  called  to  struggle  till  the  year  1813,  when, 
under  the  influence  of  more  enlightened  views,  Parliament 
took  the  question  of  these  Missions  into  its  own  hands 
and  opened  India  to  the  Gospel.  To  complete  this  view 
of  the  feelings  and  sympathies  at  the  India  House,  it  is 
useful  to  state  that  only  five  years  before  this  time  the 
Court  of  Directors,  in  the  hope  of  establishing  a  com* 
mercial  intercourse  with  the  Grand  Lama,  had  directed 
the  Governor-General  to  inform  him  that  they  were  pre- 
pared to  build  a  temple  of  worship  on  the  banks  of  the 
Ganges  for  the  pilgrims  of  that  nation  who  might  resort 
to  the  river  to  bathe.  They  were  at  this  time  drawing  a 
revenue  from  the  idolatrous  shrine  at  Gya.  Farther, 
within  a  month  after  the  Court  had  resolved  to  close 
India  against  Christian  truth,  they  sent  out  their  appro- 
bation of  the  plan  of  establishing  a  College  at  Benares  for 
the  cultivation  of  the  laws,  literature,  and  religion  of  the 
Hindoos.  The  Court  was  so  struck  with  the  "  policy  and 
liberality  "  of  this  institution,  as  to  sanction  a  subscrip- 
tion of  14002.  a  year  towards  its  maintenance ;  and  they 
directed  that  each  native  professor  should  be  required  to 
compose  a  lecture  on  the  subject  of  his  department  annu- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


48  HISTORY  OF  THE   8ERAMP0RE  MISSION.         [Chap.  I. 

ally,  and  that  an  English  translation  of  them  should  be 
regularly  transmitted  to  the  Court.  Whether  these  lec- 
tures on  the  divinity  of  Brahma,  Vishnu,  and  Shiva  ever 
reached  the  India  House  does  not  appear. 

The  clause,  thus  vehemently  opposed  at  the  India 
House,  was  not  inserted  in  the  Charter  Act.  When  the 
Bill  came  up  for  its  final  reading  in  the  House 
&*3jS°"  °*  Commons,  Mr.  Wilberforce  strongly  advo- 
cated the  cause.  Mr.  Charles  Grant,  writing 
to  a  friend  in  India,  said,  "  I  was  in  the  gallery  of  the 
House  when  the  question  came  on,  and  had  one  melan- 
choly pleasure,  that  of  seeing  Mr,  Wilberforce  in  the  face 
of  that  House  stand  forth  as  the  bold,  zealous,  animated 
and  able  champion  of  Christianity,  and  of  the  propriety  and 
duty  of  communicating  its  blessings  to  our  heathen  sub- 
jects. But  the  success  was  less  than  the  cause  and  his 
eloquence  deserved."  Mr.  Dundas  paid  a  compliment 
to  Mr.  Wilberforce,  whose  humanity  and  principles  he 
equally  admired  and  respected,  but  said  that  he  had  diffi- 
culties respecting  this  clause,  not  because  he  was  less 
anxious  than  its  honourable  mover  to  promote  so  bene- 
ficent a  purpose,  but  because  he  was  doubtful  whether  the 
means  proposed  of  sending  chaplains,  and  schoolmasters, 
and  missionaries  to  promulgate  secular  knowledge  and  the 
true  religion  among  the  natives  of  India,  would  answer 
the  important  end  proposed.  The  Hindoos,  though  a 
timid  and  innocent  people,  had  in  every  age  been  sin- 
gularly bigoted  in  their  religious  prejudices,  and  he 
doubted  whether  any  system  of  proselytism  would  answer 
the  end.  He  said  he  would  not  lose  sight  of  the  object, 
but,  on  the  contrary,  would  endeavour  to  obtain  the 
fullest  information  of  the  means  by  which  it  could  be 
most  practically  effected.  If  the  House  would,  therefore, 
agree  to  omit  the  clause,  he  was  ready,  on  a  future  occa- 
sion, to  give  it  every  consideration  which  its  importance 
required.  Mr.  Fox  objected  to. the  whole  measure,  be- 
cause he  considered  all  schemes  of  proselytism  as  wrong 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1793.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  49 

in  themselves  and  as  productive  in  most  cases  of  mischief. 
The  clause  was,  therefore,  withdrawn.  But  that  "  future 
occasion"  for  considering  the  clause,  with  the  promise 
of  which  Mr.  Dundas  induced  the  House  to  ignore  its 
former  vote — that  "more  convenient  season" — never 
came,  and  the  design  of  promulgating  useful  knowledge 
and  true  religion  in  India  was  left,  for  twenty  years,  to  the 
mercies  of  Leadenhall  Street.  Mr.  Wilberforce  records 
in  his  journal,  that  the  effect  of  the  opposition  of  the  East 
India  Directors  was  soon  seen  in  the  altered  tone  which 
Mr.  Dundas  assumed  on  this  question,  and  he  adds,  "  My 
clauses  thrown  out.  Dundas  most  false  and  double,  but, 
poor  fellow !  much  to  be  pitied.  The  East  India  Directors 
and  Proprietors  have  triumphed ;  all  my  clauses  struck 
out  last  night  on  the  third  reading  of  the  bill  (with 
Dundas's  consent!).  This  is  honour."  When  the  bill 
came  before  the  Lords,  the  Archbishop  of  Canterbury 
and  the  Bishop  of  London  spoke  in  behalf  of  the  interests 
of  religion  in  the  East ;  but  the  Bishop  of  St.  David's 
questioned  the  right  of  any  people  to  send  their  religion 
to  any  other  nation.  The  Lords  did  not  restore  the 
clause ;  and  Mr.  Wilberforce  particularly  complained  that 
the  Bishops,  as  a  body,  gave  him  no  support. 

Thus  fell  to  the  ground  the  "  grand  scheme  "  of  the 
Mission  to  Bengal,  which  originated  in  the  zeal  and  bene- 
volence of  Mr.  Grant.     The  support  of  Govern- 

•  i  -i     •      t  11        .        •,  Defeat  of  the 

ment  was  considered  indispensable  to  its  sue-  mi*.*™ .scheme 

of  Mr.  Grant. 

cess,  and  that  support  was  peremptorily  refused. 
It  was  not  under  the  auspices  of  Bishops,  and  Arch- 
bishops, and  Ministers  of  State  that  the  Gospel  was  to  be 
introduced  among  the  natives  of  Bengal,  but  through  the 
humble  yet  energetic  efforts  of  an  obscure  denomination. 
It  was  while  these  abortive  attempts  were  made  to  enlist 
the  support  of  the  great  in  the  cause  of  Missions,  and  to 
establish  it  "  by  might  and  by  power,"  that  the  small  and 
unpretending  association  was  formed  among  the  Baptists 
at  Kettering,  and  Mr.  Carey  was  preparing  to  embark  for 

VOL.  I.  E 


Digitized  by 


Google 


50  HISTORY  OF   THE    0ERAMPOBE  MISSION.         [Chap.  I. 

Calcutta,  in  the  face  of  every  discouragement.  The  cir- 
cumstance is  thus  gracefully  alluded  to  by  Mr.  Grant  in 
a  letter  written  thirty  years  after :  "  Many  years  ago,  I 
had  formed  the  design  of  a  Mission  to  Bengal,  and  used 
my  humble  endeavours  to  promote  the  design.  Providence 
reserved  that  honour  for  the  Baptists." 

We  return  to  the  proceedings  of  the  Society  at  Ket- 
tering. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


51 


CHAP.  II. 

Mr.  Thomas,  on  his  return  to  England  in  1792,  re- 
newed his  intercourse  with  the  eminent  Baptist  ministers 
in  London,  with  whom  he  had  maintained  a  Mr.Thommi.f 
correspondence  in  Bengal,  and  more  especially  SJSSiRmiI. 
with  Mr.  Booth  and  Dr.  Stennett,  and  endea-  *■"***'■*■ 
voured  to  obtain  their  support  for  the  establishment  of 
an  Indian  Mission.  The  stately  Dr.  Stennett  was  in 
frequent  communication  with  Mr.  Charles  Grant,  and 
had  received  an  unfavourable  impression  of  Mr.  Thomas's 
character  from  him,  which  served  to  confirm  his  desire 
that  the  denomination  should  not  be  committed  to  a 
wild  missionary  scheme.  Mr.  Booth  was  slow  to  credit 
Mr.  Thomas's  reports  of  a  favourable  opening  for  exer- 
tion, and  held  aloof  from  the  scheme,  but  was  converted 
into  a  warm  advocate  of  it  by  a  singular  coincidence. 
While  Mr.  Thomas  was  one  day  at  his  house,  the  Rev. 
John  Campbell,  who  was  afterwards  known  as  the  dis- 
tinguished missionary  traveller  in  Africa,  called  on  him, 
and  when  the  conversation  turned  on  Malda,  inquired 
whether  the  stranger  had  ever,  while  in  India,  heard  of 
a  Mr.  Thomas,  a  surgeon,  who  had  been  preaching  to  the 
natives  in  that  country.  He  had  heard  of  him  through 
one  of  the  bishops  in  Scotland,  whose  enthusiastic  friend 
at  Malda  was  always  "  pestering  him  with  accounts  of  the 
success  of  the  gospel  there."  Mr.  Thomas,  after  a  few 
remarks,  said,  "  I  am  the  man."  Mr.  Booth's  hesitation 
was  at  once  removed  by  this  unexpected  corroboration  of 
Mr.  Thomas's  statements,  and  he  became  from  that  time 
forward  a  strenuous  supporter  of  the  missionary  enter- 
prise.    On  hearing  of  the  formation  of  the  Baptist  Mis- 

B  2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


52  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORB  MISSION.      [Chap.  H. 

sionary  Society  at  Kettering,  Mr.  Thomas  addressed  a 
letter  to  Mr.  Carey,  stated  the  efforts  which  had  been 
made  among  the  natives  of  Bengal,  and  described  in 
glowing  terms  the  prospects  of  success  at  Malda.  The 
letter  was  read  at  the  third  meeting  of  the  Committee, 
and  Mr.  Carey  advised  his  brethren,  if  possible,  to  com- 
bine their  exertions  with  those  of  Mr.  Thomas ;  and  Mr. 
Fuller,  who  was  about  to  visit  London,  engaged  to  make 
inquiries  respecting  him.  At  that  meeting  the  committee 
published  their  first  public  address,  and  announced  the 
object  of  the  Society  to  be  "  to  evangelise  the  poor  dark 
idolatrous  heathen  by  sending  missionaries  into  different 
parts  of  the  world  where  the  light  of  the  glorious  Gospel 
was  not  at  present  published."  The  address  then  re- 
capitulated the  efforts  which  had  been  made,  with  various 
degrees  of  success,  by  the  Danish  missionaries  on  the 
coast,  the  Dutch  in  the  island  of  Ceylon,  the  apostolic 
Elliott  in  North  America,  the  Presbyterian  society  in 
Scotland,  the  zealous  Brainerd,  and  the  Moravians.  It 
concluded  with  this  exhortation,  "  Let  every  Christian  who 
loves  the  Gospel,  and  to  whom  the  souls  of  men  are  dear, 
come  forward  in  this  noble  work."  Mr.  Fuller's  inquiries 
in  London  regarding  Mr.  Thomas  proved  satisfactory; 
and  at  a  meeting  of  the  committee  on  the  9th  of  January, 
1793,  which  was  prolonged  to  the  evening,  it  was  resolved 
that  "  a  door  appeared  to  be  open  in  India  for  preaching 
the  gospel  to  the  heathen,  and  that  Mr.  Thomas  be 
invited  to  unite  with  the  Society,  who  would  endeavour 
to  procure  an  assistant  to  accompany  him."     Mr.  Carey 

immediately  rose  and  offered  his  services. 
—**£?•       While  the  committee  were  in  deliberation,  Mr. 

Thomas  himself  was  unexpectedly  announced, 
and,  on  his  entering  the  room,  Mr.  Carey,  impatient  to 
embrace  his  future  colleague,  sprang  from  his  seat,  and 
they  fell  on  each  other's  neck  and  wept.  Mr.  Thomas 
candidly  explained  to  the  committee  the  circumstance  of 
his  disagreement  with  Mr.  Grant,  and  placed  the  corre** 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1793.]  BISTORT  OF  THE  SERAMPOKE  MISSION*.  53 

spondence  before  them.  He  likewise  informed  them 
that  he  had  sent  home  an  investment  from  India,  which 
had  been  sold  below  its  actual  value,  owing  to  the  dulness 
of  the  market,  and  left  him  500J.  in  debt.  This  was  a 
most  disheartening  fact ;  but  Mr.  Thomas's  character  ap- 
peared to  be  so  ingenuous,  and  his  integrity  so  manifest, 
that  the  determination  of  the  committee  was  not  shaken, 
and  it  was  resolved  that  he  and  Mr.  Carey  should  proceed 
to  Bengal  in  the  spring. 

A  new  difficulty,  however,  now  arose.    When  the  sub- 
ject of  proceeding  to  India  was  mentioned  to  Mrs.  Carey, 
she  declared  that  she  would  never  consent  to 
quit  her  native  land.  A  voyage  to  India  at  that  *«.  <*«*  * 

•*  jo  accompany  hims 

period  was  considered,  even  in  educated  circles, 
a  far  more  formidable  undertaking  than  at  the  present 
time.  It  was  regarded  in  the  light  of  a  perpetual 
banishment  from  home;  and  it  is  scarcely  matter  of 
surprise  that  Mrs.  Carey,  who  had  never  been  beyond  the 
limits  of  the  county  in  which  she  was  born,  should  have 
shrunk  from  the  prospect  of  accompanying  her  husband 
to  so  distant  a  country  with  four  children  on  a  project  in 
which  she  had  no  sympathy.  Mr.  Carey,  therefore,  had 
before  him  no  other  alternative  than  that  of  relinquishing 
an  enterprise  dear  to  him  as  life  itself,  or  of  embarking 
without  his  family.  But  his  resolution  was  not  to  be 
shaken.  After  long  deliberation  he  considered  it  his  duty 
to  proceed  to  India  at  once ;  taking  with  him  his  eldest 
son,  with  the  intention  of  returning  for  his  wife  and 
family  as  soon  as  the  Mission  was  established.  Three 
months  after,  while  detained  at  the  Isle  of  Wight,  he  ex- 
presses his  feelings  to  his  wife,  of  whose  confinement  he 
had  then  heard,  in  language  equally  marked  by  conjugal 
affection  and  Christian  principle: — "You  wish  to  know 
in  what  state  my  mind  is.  I  answer,  much  as  it  was 
when  I  left  you.  If  I  had  all  the  world  I  would  freely 
give  it  to  have  you  and  my  dear  children  with  me,  but 
the  sense  of  duty  is  so  strong  as  to  overpower  all  other 

B  3 


Digitized  by 


Google 


54  HISTORY  OF  THE  SEBAMPOBB  MISSION,       [Chap.  II. 

considerations,  I  could  not  turn  back  without  guilt  on 
my  soul."  But  after  the  infant  society  had  engaged,  in 
the  ardour  of  their  feelings,  to  send  out  two  missionaries 
to  India,  they  found  that  their  zeal  had  outrun  their 
resources.  Their  funds  were  inadequate  to  the  expenses 
of  the  voyage.  Mr.  Thomas  was  therefore  obliged  to 
traverse  the  country  to  raise  subscriptions,  and  he  met 
with  many  rebuffs,  but  he  had  a  fund  of  enthusiasm  and 
good  humour  which  carried  him  through  the  task.  Mr. 
Fuller  also  came  up  to  London,  and  canvassed  the  mem- 
bers of  the  Baptist  churches  from  door  to  door  ;  but  the 
majority  of  them  gave  him  a  cold  reception,  and  he  fre- 
quently retired  from  the  more  public  streets  into  back 
lanes,  that  he  might  not  be  seen  to  weep  over  his  want  of 
success.  By  begging  and  borrowing,  the  sum  required 
was  at  length  complete,  and  the  missionaries  were  to  be 
Farewell  «*-  designated  to  their  work.  The  farewell  ser- 
*""■"  vices  were  held  at  Leicester,  on  the  20th  of 

March,  when  Mr.  Fuller  delivered  an  address  to  Mr.  Carey 
and  Mr.  Thomas  in  language  so  fervid  that  the  remem- 
brance of  it  served  in  no  common  degree  to  sustain  and 
animate  their  minds  when  they  came  to  encounter  the 
practical  difficulties  of  the  work  after  their  arrival  in 
India.  He  dwelt  with  great  effect  on  the  objects  they 
were  to  keep  in  view,  the  directions  they  were  to  follow, 
the  difficulties  they  would  be  called  to  encounter,  and  the 
reward  they  might  expect.  He  concluded  the  address  in 
this  strain,  A  Go,  then,  my  dear  brethren,  stimulated  by 
these  prospects.  We  shall  meet  again.  Each,  I  trust, 
will  be  addressed  by  our  great  Redeemer,  'Come,  ye 
blessed  of  my  Father  —  these  were  hungry,  and  ye  fed 
them  ;  athirst,  and  ye  gave  them  to  drink ;  in  prison,  and 
ye  visited  them ;  enter  ye  into  the  joy  of  your  Lord.'" 

The  important  question  now  came  up  how  they  were  to 
reach  India.  It  was  hinted  to  Mr.  Fuller  that  any  appli- 
cation which  might  be  made  at  the  India  House  for  a  license 
to  embark  for  Calcutta  would  be  rejected;  but  he  was 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1798.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPOEE  MISSION.  55 

anxious  that  the  missionaries  should  not  be  smuggled  out, 
without  the  permission  of  the  Court  of  Directors.  He 
fancied  that  the  rulers  of  British  India  would  be 
but  too  happy  to  encourage  such  independent  ^^;«°5or^a 
efforts  to  impart  religious  instruction  and  the 
benefits  of  civilisation  to  their  native  subjects  —  an  idea 
which  the  gloomy  experience  of  the  next  twenty  years 
effectually  dispelled.  To  meet  Mr.  Fuller's  wishes,  Mr. 
Pearce  went  to  London,  with  Mr.  Thomas  and  Mr. 
Carey,  to  inquire  whether  it  would  be  prudent  to  apply  to 
the  Court  of  Directors  for  a  missionary  license.  They 
could  not  have  fallen  upon  a  more  inauspicious  conjunc- 
ture. The  storm  of  indignation  which  had  been  raised  at 
the  India  House  by  Mr.  Wilberforce's  resolutions  was  then 
raging  with  the  utmost  fury ;  and  they  were  soon  con- 
vinced that  every  hope  of  obtaining  leave  for  two  mission- 
aries to  go  out  to  Bengal  in  one  of  the  Company's  vessels 
must  be  at  once  abandoned.  An  attempt  was  made  to 
interest  the  Rev.  Thomas  Scott,  now  chaplain  at  the  Lock 
Hospital,  in  this  missionary  enterprise.  The  modest  lad 
whom  he  had  last  seen  in  his  shoemaker's  apron  at  Hackle- 
ton  now  waited  on  him  in  London  to  state  that  he  was 
going  out  as  a  missionary  to  the  heathen,  and  to  ask  the 
aid  of  his  influence  with  Mr.  Charles  Grant,  who  was  sup- 
posed to  possess  much  weight  in  Leadenhall  Street. 
Newton,  the  patriarch  of  the  evangelical  section  of  the 
Established  Church,  also  spoke  to  Mr.  Grant  on  behalf  of 
Mr.  Thomas  and  Mr.  Carey  ;  but  he  peremptorily  refused 
to  give  any  countenance  to  Mr.  Thomas,  and  a  perusal  of 
the  correspondence,  which  had  passed  between  them,  will 
fully  justify  the  refusal.  But  he  said  that  if  Mr.  Carey  were 
going  out  alone,  or  with  a  suitable  associate,  he  would  give 
all  the  assistance  in  his  power.  He  likewise  stated  to  Mr. 
Newton  that  he  should  be  happy  to  see  Mr.  Carey,  but 
from  accidental  circumstances  the  interview  never  took 
place ;  and  these  two  eminent  men,  who  had  for  five  years 
been   making  concurrent    efforts,  in    different   spheres, 

E  4 


Digitized  by 


Google 


56  HISTORY  OF  THE   SERAMPORB  MISSION.      [Chap.  H 

unknown  to  each  other,  for  the  establishment  of  a  mission 
in  Bengal,  never  met. 

There  now  appeared  to  be  no  prospect  of  a  license,  and 
it  was  determined  that  the  missionaries  should  go  without 
v  k  v    .».      one.     Mr.  Thomas's  friend,  the  commander  of 

Emurk  on  the  * 

^SSSSutlSSi  the  "Oxford"  Indiaman,   with  whom  he  had 
her*  made  two  voyages  in  the  capacity  of  surgeon, 

offered  to  take  them  without  leave,  and  the  whole  party 
proceeded  to  the  Isle  of  Wight  to  wait  the  arrival  of  the 
vessel.  But  Mr.  Thomas  was  500Z.  in  debt,  and  his  credi- 
tors, learning  that  he  was  about  to  quit  the  country,  pur- 
sued him  with  their  writs.  The  period  of  his  residence  in 
the  island  was  passed  in  humiliating  contrivances  to  elude 
the  bailiff.  On  the  approach  of  a  stranger  Mr.  Thomas  fled 
the  house,  and  did  not  venture  to  return  till  his  colleague 
came  out  to  assure  him  that  the  danger  was  past.  Mr. 
Carey's  honourable  feelings  were  deeply  wounded  by  the 
disreputable  position  of  his  companion,  and  his  mind  revolted 
from  the  idea  of  commencing  a  mission  to  impart  to  the  hea- 
/  then  the  superior  morality  and  sacred  hopes  of  the  gospel 
in  such  associations.  But  the  die  was  cast,  and  Mr.  Thomas 
was  his  missionary  colleague.  At  length  the  vessel  hove 
in  sight,  and  they  hastened  on  board  with  their  luggage. 
But  they  had  not  long  been  on  the  vessel  before  the  com- 
mander received  an  anonymous  letter  from  London,  stating 
that  an  information  was. about  to  be  laid  against  him  at 
the  India  House,  for  taking  out  persons  without  the  per- 
mission of  his  masters,  and  contrary  to  their  express  orders. 
The  captain  had  no  sooner  read  the  letter  than  he  insisted 
on  their  quitting  the  vessel  without  a  moment's  delay. 
No  importunity  could  prevail  on  him  to  relent ;  his  com- 
mission was  at  stake.  With  a  heavy  heart  they  unshipped 
their  baggage  and  proceeded  to  Ryde.  Mr.  Carey  was  at 
first  inclined  to  suppose  that  the  letter  came  from  one  of 
Mr.  Thomas's  creditors.  But  if  the  fact  of  his  being  on 
board  the  "  Oxford  "  was  known  in  London,  his  creditors 
might  have  arrested  him  without  any  difficulty.     There  is 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1793.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  57 

little  reason  to  doubt  that  the  letter  originated  in  the  com* 
motion  raised  at  the  India  House  by  Mr.  Wilberforce's 
resolutions,  and  that  the  information  of  the  risk  the  com- 
mander was  about  to  incur  came  from  a  friendly  hand.  As 
soon  as  Mr.  Carey  was  on  shore,  he  wrote  to  Mr.  Fuller, 
under  feelings  of  deep  distress,  but  not  of  despondency. 
He  stated  that  their  plans  were  frustrated  "for  the 
present ;"  adding  that,  however  mysterious  might  be  the 
leadings  of  Providence  in  this  instance,  he  had  no  doubt 
they  were  superintended  by  an  infinitely  wise  God.  Even 
the  indomitable  spirit  of  Mr.  Fuller  was  staggered  by  this 
unexpected  blow.  "  We  are  all  undone,"  he  writes  to  Dr. 
Ryland ;  "  I  am  grieved ;  yet  perhaps  'tis  best.  Thomas's 
debts  and  embarrassments  damped  my  pleasure  before. 
Perhaps  'tis  best  he  should  not  go.  I  am  afraid  leave  will 
never  be  obtained  now  for  Carey  or  any  other, —  and  the 
adventure  (the  supplies  in  goods  for  their  support)  seems 
to  be  lost.  He  says  nothing  of  the  250/.  for  the  voyage. 
'Tis  well  if  that  be  not  lost." 

It  was  doubtless  all  for  the  best  that  they  were  thus 
prevented  from  going  to  Calcutta  in  the  "  Oxford,"  which 
was  one  of  the  Company's  own  vessels.  The  Refortofun. 
rule  which  prohibited  the  resort  of  Europeans,  ^r£fBudr£ 
not  in  the  public  service,  to  India,  though  it  pTOhibited- 
originated  in  feelings  of  commercial  jealousy,  had  been 
rendered  more  stringent  in  the  days  of  the  empire  than 
it  ever  was  in  the  days  of  the  factory.  When  the  East 
India  Company  existed  only  as  merchants,  they  had  been 
armed  with  authority  to  exclude  interlopers ;  but  in  a 
spirit  of  laudable  moderation,  they  had  ordained  that  no 
European  should  be  sent  home,  unless  "  the  fault  was  of  a 
notorious  character,  such  as  assisting  our  enemies,  or 
openly  striking  at  our  privileges."  But,  in  1783,  parlia- 
ment thought  fit  to  pass  an  act  of  extraordinary  severity 
against  the  resort  of  unlicensed  Europeans  to  India,  and 
ordained  that,  "  if  any  subjects  of  his  majesty,  not  being 
lawfully  licensed,  should  at  any  time  repair  to  or  be  found 


Digitized  by 


Google 


58  HISTORY  OF  THE   SBRAMPORE  MISSION.       [Chap.  II. 

in  the  East  Indies,  such  persons  were  to  be  declared  guilty 
of  a  high  crime  and  misdemeanour,  and  be  liable  to  fine 
and  imprisonment."  The  Court  of  Directors,  however, 
mitigated  the  penalty  of  the  crime,  and  limited  it  to 
simple  deportation.  In  India,  moreover,  the  local  govern- 
ment had  passed  an  order  in  1789,  obliging  every 
commander  of  a  vessel  arriving  in  India,  to  deliver  to  the 
pilot,  who  took  charge  of  her  at  Saugor,  a  faithful  return 
of  all  the  passengers  on  board,  stating  whether  they  were 
in  possession  of  a  license  from  the  India  House  to  resort 
to  India,  or  not.  There  is,  therefore,  every  reason  to 
believe  that,  if  Mr.  Carey  had  proceeded  to  India  in  the 
"  Oxford,"  or  any  other  vessel  belonging  to  the  Company, 
the  Governor-general,  in  compliance  with  the  laws  in 
force,  would  have  ordered  him  immediately  to  quit  the 
country. 

Mr.  Thomas,  on  being  expelled  from  the  vessel, 
hastened  to  London,  in  the  hope  of  discovering  the  writer 
Their  rocwd-  °^  *^e  letter,  and  inducing  him  to  recall  it. 
npdMfam  But  he  was  unsuccessful,  and  returned  to 
tbeteueL  Portsmouth,  where  he  found  Mr.  Carey  in 
tears  at  a  sight  which,  a  short  time  before,  would  have 
filled  him  with  ecstacy — the  whole  fleet  getting  under 
way  and  sailing  for  India.  Mr.  Carey  was  in  a  state  of 
the  greatest  excitement.  One  moment  he  determined 
to  go  out  to  India  overland ;  then,  he  resolved  to  proceed 
forthwith  to  the  India  House,  avow  his  object,  and  seek 
permission  to  embark  in  one  of  the  Company's  vessels. 
"With  a  firm  conviction  that  some  path  would  open  to 
him,  he  left  his  luggage  at  Portsmouth,  and  went  up  with 
his  colleague  to  London,  to  consult  the  friends  of  the 
Mission  regarding  their  future  course.  Mr.  Thomas,  with 
his  usual  activity,  went  to  the  various  coffee-houses  in 
the  City,  in  the  hope  of  hearing  of  some  foreign  vessel 
bound  to  India.  After  a  long  and  fruitless  search,  one  of 
the  waiters  at  the  Jerusalem  Coffee  House  put  a  card  into 
his  hand,  stating  that  a  Danish  East  Indiaman  was  to  be 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1793.]  HISTORY  OF  THE   SERAMPOEB  MISSION.  59 

heard  of  at  No,  10,  Cannon  Street.     He  hastened  to  the 
office,  and  found  that  the  vessel  referred  to  had  already 
sailed  from  Copenhagen,  and  was  daily  expected  in  the 
Downs,  on  her  way  to^Calcutta.     But  the  terras  damped 
his  ardour,  1001.  for  each  adult,  and  50/.  for  each  child. 
That  night,  Mr.  Carey  and  Mr.  Thomas  went  down  to 
Northamptonshire,  partly  to  endeavour  to  raise  funds, 
and  partly  to  make  a  last  effort  to  persuade  Mrs.  Carey 
to  accompany  them.   She  still  appeared  inflexible,  and  her 
husband  left  her  in  despair ;  but  Mr.  Thomas  returned  to 
the  struggle,  and  she  at  length  yielded  to  his  importunity; 
though  not  till  after  he  had  alarmed  her  by  the  solemn 
assurance  that,  if  she  persisted  in  resisting  the  proposal, 
she  would  have  cause  of  repentance  as  long  as  she  lived. 
Mr.   Carey  was  delighted   with  the  prospect  of  being 
accompanied  by  his  family ;  but  as  Mrs.  Carey  had  stipu- 
lated that  her  sister  should  go   with  them,  this  large 
addition    to  their  party  served,  on  the  other  hand,  to 
increase  their  pecuniary  difficulties.     The  passage-money 
required  by   the    agent  would  now  amount    to    600/. 
Small  as  this  sum  may  appear  in  the  present  affluence  of 
missionary  resources,  the  committee  could  not  command 
it,  though  the  commander  of  the  "  Oxford  "  had  refunded 
150Z.     Mr.  Carey,  however,  was  resolved  not  to  lose  this 
golden    opportunity.      Within    twenty-four  hours    after 
his  wife   had  consented  to   embark   with   him,   he  had 
made  arrangements  for  the  disposal  of  his  little  property, 
which  did  not  yield  more  than  18/.  10s.,  and  he  was  on 
his  way  to  London  with  his  whole  family  in   two  post- 
chaises.     In  London  he  was  authorised  to  raise  as  much 
money  as  could  be  obtained  on  the  guarantee  of  the 
Society,  and  Mr.  Booth  and  Dr.  Rippon  cheerfully  assisted 
him  to  the  full  extent  of  their  credit ;  but  after  every 
exertion,   the  sum  at  their  disposal   fell  short  of  the 
exigency. 

Mr.  Thomas  once  more  proceeded  to  the  office,  and  in- 
formed the  agent  that  they  formed  a  large  party,  consist- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


60  HISTORY  OP  THE  SERAMPOBE  MISSION.      [Chap.  II. 

ing  of  four  adults  and  four  children,  while  the  sum  they 

had  been  able  to  raise  did  not  exceed  3002.     With  that 

generosity  of  spirit  which  served  in  some  mea- 

paM»gein«*      sure  to  redeem  the  inconsistencies  of  his  cha- 

Danish  ressel. 

racter,  he  proposed  that  the  whole  party  should 
occupy  only  two  cabins ;  that  only  two  of  their  number, 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Carey,  should  dine  at  the  cuddy-table ;  and 
that  Mrs.  Carey's  sister  and  he  should  be  rated  as  attend- 
ants, and  take  their  meals  at  the  servants'  mess.  These 
terms,  though  very  inadequate,  were  accepted,  and  on  the 
13th  of  June,  1793,  the  whole  party  embarked  on  the 
"  Cron  Princessa  Maria,"  a  Danish  vessel  manned  with 
Danish  and  Norwegian  sailors,  but  commanded  by  Captain 
Christmas,  an  Englishman,  who  had  assumed  this  name 
on  being  naturalised  in  Denmark.  Mr.  Carey  found  him 
gentlemanly  in  his  deportment,  and  kind  and  considerate 
beyond  expectation.  On  the  first  day  of  the  voyage  he 
refused  to  allow  either  Mr.  Thomas  or  Mrs.  Carey's  sister 
to  absent  themselves  from  the  table,  and  assigned  them 
separate  cabins,  treating  them  with  as  much  distinction 
as  if  they  had  paid  the  full  rate  of  passage-money. 

The  voyage,  which  was  varied  by  no  incident,  was 
rendered  agreeable  by  the  uniform  urbanity  of  the  com- 
mander. Mr.  Carey  employed  his  time  in  studying  Ben- 
galee under  Mr.  Thomas's  tuition,  and  in  assisting  him 
in  the  translation  of  the  Book  of  Genesis,  by  his  own 
knowledge  of  the  original.  As  he  sailed  up  the  Bay  of 
Bengal,  and  approached  the  scene  of  his  labours,  his  mind 
seemed  to  expand  with  the  contemplation  of  the  great 
missionary  field  which  was  presented  on  all  sides.  In 
writing  to  the  Society  he  remarks :  "  Africa  is  but  a  little 
way  from  England,  Madagascar  but  a  little  farther.  South 
America,  and  all  the  numerous  and  large  islands  in  the 
India  and  China  seas,  I  hope  will  not  be  passed  over.  A 
large  field  opens  on  every  side.  Oh,  that  many  labourers 
may  be  thrust  out  into  the  vineyard  of  our  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  and  that  the  Gentiles  may  come  to  the  knowledge 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1793 J  HISTORY  OF  THE  SKRAMPORE  MISSION.  61 

of  the  truth  as  it  is  in  Him,"  The  whole  party  landed  in 
Calcutta  on  the  11th  of  November.  As  the  "Cron  Prin- 
cessa"  was  a  foreign  vessel,  and  had  cleared  out  from  a 
foreign  port,  the  commander  was  not,  it  is  supposed, 
required  to  deliver  a  list  of  his  passengers  to  the  pilot,  or, 
there  may  have  been  neglect  on  the  part  of  the  pilot ;  at 
all  events,  Mr.  Carey  and  Mr.  Thomas  entered  the  town 
without  being  molested,  or  even  noticed.  They  imme- 
diately rented  a  house,  where  both  families  resided  toge- 
gether.  Ram-bosoo,  one  of  Mr.  Thomas's  hopeful  inquirers, 
soon  found  out  the  missionaries,  and  Mr.  Carey  engaged 
him  as  a  moonshee.  The  little  knowledge  which  he 
had  acquired  of  English  made  his  services  the  more 
acceptable  to  one  who  was  totally  ignorant  of  Bengalee, 
and  the  amiableness  of  his  character  became  a  source  of 
pleasure  amidst  the  strange  associations  of  a  foreign  land. 
The  funds  brought  out  for  the  support  of  the  missionaries 
had  been  invested  in  goods,  which  was  then  considered 
the  most  advantageous  mode  of  remittance ;  and  the  sale 
of  them  was  necessarily  confided  to  Mr.  Thomas,  who  had 
been  dabbling  in  trade  for  ten  years,  and  was  supposed  to 
understand  the  Calcutta  market.  Here,  on  the  thresh- 
old of  their  undertaking,  their  difficulties  commenced. 
Mr.  Thomas  was  not  only  unthrifty,  but  disposed  to  ex- 
travagance. With  the  sums  realised  from  the  sale  of  the 
goods,  he  set  up  a  more  expensive  establishment  than  their 
resources  would  justify.  The  money  vanished  as  rapidly 
as  it  came  in.  They  had  no  letter  of  credit  on  any  house 
of  business.  The  committee  at  Kettering  had  neither  the 
knowledge  of  business,  nor  the  funds  necessary  for  such  a 
provision. 

Before  Mr.  Carey  had  been  a  month  in  the  country,  he 
felt  it  necessary  to  seek  some  cheaper  locality,  and  he 
removed  to  Bandel,  about  two  miles  above  the  Mr  Carey  re- 
town  of  Hooghly,  once  the  emporium  of  Bengal.  USTSiJtoiff* 
At  Bandel  is  still  to  be  seen  the  neat  Roman  D,cktolah- 
Catholic  church  and  convent  erected  more  than  two  cen- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


62  HISTORY   OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  II. 

turies  and  a  half  ago,  the  oldest  edifice  of  Christian 
worship  in  the  Bengal  presidency.  It  was  while  residing 
at  Bandel  that  Mr.  Carey  was  introduced  to  Kiernandier, 
then  eighty-four  years  of  age,  who  lived  on  a  small 
pension  at  the  neighbouring  Dutch  settlement  of  Chin- 
surah.  But  Bandel  was  too  much  in  the  neighbourhood 
of  Europeans  to  be  adapted  to  that  plan  of  missionary 
labour  which  Mr.  Carey  had  been  contemplating.  It 
afforded  him  no  opportunity  of  accommodating  his  habits 
of  life  to  native  economy,  which  he  had  been  led  to  con- 
sider the  most  effectual  mode  of  obtaining  access  to  the 
people.  Mr.  Thomas's  report  had  led  him  to  think  of  the 
country  around  Malda  as  the  most  desirable  sphere  of 
missionary  labour,  but  there  appeared  to  be  no  facilities 
for  reaching  it.  He  proceeded,  therefore,  in  the  first  in- 
stance, in  company  with  Mr.  Thomas,  to  Nuddea,  where 
they  resided  a  few  days,  and  established  a  friendly  inter- 
course with  the  pundits  at  that  great  seat  of  learning,  and 
were  invited  to  settle  among  them.  "  We  seemed  inclined 
to  do  so,"  writes  Mr.  Carey,  "  as  it  is  the  bulwark  of  Hin- 
dooism,  which,  if  once  carried,  all  the  country  must  be 
laid  open  to  us."  But  they  returned,  after  a  brief  sojourn, 
to  Calcutta,  where  Mr.  Thomas  found  that  a  London 
creditor  had  sent  out  one  of  his  bonds  to  be  enforced.  His 
friends  advised  him  to  settle  in  the  town,  and  resume  his 
professional  occupation,  assuring  him  that  this  was  the 
surest  means  of  appeasing  his  creditors — he  was  also  in 
debt  in  Calcutta — who  were  likely  to  be  less  clamorous  if 
he  made  some  visible  effort  to  meet  his  obligations.  He 
accepted  their  advice,  and  engaged  a  house  and  set  up  a 
large  establishment,  without  reference  to  the  necessities  of 
his  colleague.  In  these  distressing  circumstances  Mr. 
Carey  was  indebted  for  shelter  to  the  generosity  of  an 
opulent  native,  who  offered  him  the  use  of  a  small  house 
he  possessed  at  Manicktolah,  in  the  southern  suburb  of 
Calcutta.  Into  that  wretched  and  ill-ventilated  house 
Mr.  Carey  removed  his  family  of  seven  persons  in  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1794.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SEBAMPORE  MISSION.  63 

beginning  of  1794.  It  is  pleasing  to  record  that,  twenty- 
years  after  this  event,  when  Mr.  Carey  had  attained  an  in- 
fluential position  in  Calcutta,  this  native  gentleman,  who 
had  in  the  meantime  met  with  heavy  reverses  of  fortune, 
was  placed  by  him  in  a  situation  of  ease  and  comfort. 

The  distress  to  which  Mr.  Carey  was  now  reduced  was 
more  severe  than  he  had  experienced  during  the  previous 
twenty  years  of  his  life,  in  which  he  had  been  Mr.  c^.,  dU. 
struggling  with  difficulties.  His  mind  required  tnm' 
all  the  support  which  could  be  derived  from  a  firm  reliance 
on  the  promises  of  Scripture  to  prevent  his  being  over- 
whelmed with  despondency.  He  was  in  a  foreign  land, 
with  a  large  family,  and  without  a  friend  or  a  farthing. 
His  colleague  had  inconsiderately  wasted  their  joint  re- 
sources, and  was  living  at  the  rate  of  300  of  400rs.  a 
month  on  funds  borrowed  from  a  native  at  exorbitant 
interest.  Mr.  Carey  was  cut  to  the  quick  by  the  discon- 
tent of  Mrs.  Carey,  who  had  accompanied  him  to  India 
with  extreme  reluctance,  and  felt  no  sympathy  in  his 
labours.  She  upbraided  him  with  the  distress  to  which 
she  and  her  family  were  reduced  by  yielding  to  his 
solicitations,  and  contrasted  Mr.  Thomas's  luxuries  with 
their  destitution.  Frequently,  after  having  walked  ten  or 
twelve  miles  through  the  town,  he  returned  to  his  wretched 
hovel  only  to  encounter  the  invectives  of  his  wife  and 
her  sister.  Thus  deprived  of  the  conveniences  which  are 
necessary  to  the  European  constitution  in  a  tropical  cli- 
mate, she  and  twQ  of  her  children  were  attacked  with 
dysentery,  from  which  they  recovered  but  slowly.  Driven 
almost  to  distraction  by  this  accumulation  of  troubles,  he 
resolved,  if  possible,  to  borrow  500rs.  and  retire  to  the 
Soonderbuns,  and  erect  huts  for  himself  and  his  family, 
depending  for  subsistence  on  the  cultivation  of  the  ground. 
He  had  been  informed  that  land  could  there  be  obtained  rent 
free  from  government  for  a  lengthened  period.  He  went 
to  Mr.  Thomas  for  advice  and  for  money,  but  found  that 
every  farthing  was  expended,  and  that  he  was  again  in 


Digitized  by 


Google 


64  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  II. 

debt.     "I  am,"  he  writes  to  England,  "in  a  strange  land, 
alone,  with  no  Christian  friend,  a  large  family,  and  nothing 
to  supply  their  wants."    A  second  application  on  the  15th 
of  January  produced  the  same  disappointment.    Five  days 
after  he  was  offered  the  occupation  of  an  old  bungalow  in  the 
Soonderbuns  till  he  could  obtain  a  suitable  residence  for 
his  family,  but  he  could  not  remove  to  it  for  want  of  funds. 
The  Rev.  David  Brown  had  formerly  taken  an  interest 
in  Mr.  Thomas's  labours,  and  in  his  extremity,  Mr.  Carey 
determined  to  call  on  him  to  obtain  advice  and 
~rM^5wid     possibly  assistance.     He  waited. on  him  on  the 
mm.  2\^\l  Q£  jamiary^  but  without  any  satisfactory 

result.  "  He  is  an  evangelical  minister  of  the  Church  of 
England,"  writes  Mr.  Carey,  "  and  received  me  with  cold 
politeness.  I  found  him  a  very  sensible  man,  but  a 
marked  disgust  prevails  between  him  and  Mr.  Thomas, 
and  I  left  him  without  his  having  asked  me  to  take 
any  refreshment,  though  he  knew  I  had  walked  five 
miles  in  the  heat  of  the  sun."  Such  conduct  on  the 
part  of  the  generous  and  hospitable  David  Brown 
could  be  attributed  only  to  the  calamity  of  Mr.  Carey's 
being  associated  with  Mr.  Thomas,  whom  he  regarded  with 
feelings  of  incurable  mistrust.  Amidst  all  this  distress, 
however,  Mr.  Carey  never  relaxed  the  prosecution  of  the 
great  work  which  had  brought  him  to  India.  With  Ram- 
bosoo  as  his  companion  and  interpreter,  he  visited  the  places 
of  public  resort  in  Calcutta,  day  after  day,  to  explain  the 
gospel  message  to  the  people.  At  home,  he  was  unremit- 
ting in  his  application  to  the  Bengalee  language,  and  in  his 
attempts  to  revise  the  rough  translations  of  the  Bible  which 
Mr.  Thomas  had  begun.  At  length  he  succeeded  in  ob- 
taining a  small  supply  of  money  from  him,  and,  on  the  4th 
of  February,  embarked  in  boats  for  the  wilderness.  As  his 
future  colleague,  Mr.  Ward,  has  happily  expressed  it  when 
subsequently  visiting  the  spot,  "  Like  the  father  of  the 
faithful,  he  went  out  not  knowing  whither  he  went."  He 
was  obliged  to  pursue  a  circuitous  route,  which  prolonged 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1734.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SBRAMPORE  MISSION.  65 

the  journey,  and  he  had  provisions  only  for  a  single  day 
left,  when  he  perceived  a  European  on  the  bank  of  the 
river  at  Dehatta,  a  village  about  forty  miles  from  Calcutta, 
with  a  gun  in  his  hand  following  his  sport  at  a  little 
distance  from  his  bungalow.  This  was  Mr.  Short,  an 
assistant  under  government  in  the  salt  department.  Mr. 
Carey  left  the  boat  and  walked  up  to  the  house  with  all  his 
family,  and  explained  his  present  circumstances  and  the 
object  which  had  brought  him  to  the  country.  He  was 
welcomed  by  the  owner  with  great  cordiality.  Like  the 
generality  of  Europeans  then  in  India,  Mr.  Short  was 
destitute  of  any  religious  impressions,  and  he  was  utterly 
unable  to  comprehend  Mr.  Carey's  mission  to  convert  the 
natives,  which  he  frankly  said  appeared  to  him  in  the  light 
of  a  wild  and  impracticable  scheme ;  but  he  manifested 
that  generous  spirit  which  has  always  distinguished  the 
English  character  in  the  East,  and  has  made  "  Indian  hospi- 
tality "  a  proverbial  expression.  He  invited  Mr.  Carey  to 
make  his  house  his  home  for  six  months,  or  for  a  longer 
period,  till  he  could  provide  suitable  accommodation  for  his 
family.  Soon  after,  Mr.  Carey  proceeded  to  the  opposite 
bank  of  the  river  to  a  place  called  Hasnabad,  ^  abode  tath- 
and  began  to  erect  what  he  called  his  "huts"  *™«°*™*- 
for  his  family  in  a  tract  of  land  cleared  of  the  jungle  which 
he  had  obtained.  In  his  letter  to  England  from  this  spot, 
he  says,  "  Wild  hogs,  deer,  and  fowl,  are  to  be  procured 
by  the  gun,  and  must  supply  us  with  a  considerable  part 
of  our  food.  I  find  an  inconvenience  in  having  so  much 
of  my  time  taken  up  in  procuring  provisions,  and  culti- 
vating my  little  farm.  But  when  my  house  is  built,  I  shall 
have  more  leisure  than  at  present,  and  have  daily  oppor- 
tunities of  conversing  with  the  natives,  and  pursuing  the 
work  of  the  Mission." 

To  those  who  have  not  resided  in  the  lower  parts  of 
Bengal,  it  may  be  useful  to  explain  that  the  Soonderbuns 
consist  of  a  vast  tract  of  jungle,  facing  the  Bay  of  Bengal, 
and   stretching  from   the  Pudma  on  the   east,   to  the 

VOL.  I.  F 


Digitized  by 


Google 


66  HISTORY  OF  THE  SBRAMPOBB  MISSION.       [ChAp.  II. 

Hooghly  on  the  west,  over  an  area  of  more  than  6,500 
miles.  This  region  was  formerly  filled  with  hamlets  and 
towns,  and  a  rich  cultivation ;  but  during  the  decay  of 
the  Mahomedan  power,  had  been  ravaged  and  depopu- 
lated by  the  Mugs  from  the  neighbouring  province  of 
Aracan.  It  was  now  a  dense  and  deadly  forest,  inhabited 
only  by  wild  beasts.  Small  parties  of  wood-dutters 
annually  resorted  to  it,  to  fell  the  trees  and  supply  the 
metropolis  with  fire-wood.  Here  and  there,  patches  of 
land  had  been  cleared,  as  at  Dehatta,  for  the  manufacture 
of  salt,  and  villages  had  arisen  at  intervals ;  but  the  scanty 
population  was  always  exposed  to  the  visits  of  tigers,  who 
had,  in  a  few  days,  carried  off  more  than  twenty  from  the 
neighbourhood  in  which  Mr.  Carey  had  now  taken  up  his 
residence.  It  was  in  this  region  of  jungle  and  tigers  and 
miasma,  apart  from  all  civilised  and  Christian  associations, 
that  Mr.  Carey  now  planted  the  hopes  of  the  Mission.  It 
was,  of  all  places,  the  most  unfavourable  for  the  develop- 
ment of  missionary  plans,  and  he  would  probably  have 
sunk  under  the  attacks  of  fever  as  soon  as  the  rains  set 
in.  From  this  fatal  position  he  was  rescued  by  a  most 
providential  turn  of  events.  During  Mr.  Thomas's  resi- 
dence in  India,  Mr.  George  Udny,  of  the  Company's  civil 
service,  a  man  of  genuine  Christian  benevolence,  had 
taken  an  interest  in  his  missionary  labours,  and  united 
with  Mr.  Grant  in  contributing  to  his  support ;  but  was  at 
length  obliged,  through  the  waywardness  of  Mr.  Thomas's 
conduct,  to  relinquish  all  connection  with  him.  Mr. 
Udny  was,  at  this  time,  commercial  resident  at  Malda, 
the  sphere  of  Mr.  Thomas's  former  labours.  His  brother 
and  his  brother's  wife  were  drowned  by  the  upsetting  of 
a  boat  in  crossing  the  river  at  Calcutta,  and  his  family 
was  plunged  into  a  state  of  the  deepest  distress.  Mr. 
Thomas,  on  hearing  of  this  melancholy  circumstance,  re- 
solved to  renew  his  correspondence  with  Mr.  Udny, 
though  they  had  parted  in  anger,  and  wrote  a  letter  of 
condolence,  in  which  he  stated  that  the  first  impulse 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1794.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  67 

of  his  mind  was  to  start  for  Malda,  and  offer  the  family, 
and  more  particularly,  Mr.  Udny*s  aged  mother,  all  the 
consolation  in  his  power.  Mr.  Udny  met  him  with  cor- 
responding  generosity,  and,  mindful  only  of  their  former 
friendship,  gave  him  a  cordial  invitation  to  Malda,  offering 
to  defray  all  his  expenses.  Mr.  Thomas  immediately 
quitted  Calcutta,  dropping  his  professional  prospects,  which 
were  not  very  bright,  and  hastened  to  Malda,  where  he 
experienced  the  most  hospitable  reception.  Mr.  Udny 
had  been  engaged  for  several  years  in  the  manufacture  of 
indigo,  and  was  in  need  of  assistants  to  superintend  two 
of  his  factories.  One  of  these  posts  he  pffered  to  Mr. 
Thomas,  who  accepted  it  with  delight. 

Soon  after  this  event,  Mr.  Thomas  brought  to  Mr. 
Udny's  notice,  the  solitary  and  forlorn  position  of  his  col- 
league in  the  Soonderbuns,  who  had  come  out 
as  a  missionary  to  the  heathen,  and  Mr.  Udny  ;^*»ttd™" 
authorised  him  to  offer  the  management  of  the 
other  factory  to  his  friend.  The  letter  reached  Mr.  Carey 
on  the  1st  of  March.  His  thoughts  had  always  turned  to 
a  residence  in  the  Malda  district,  and  he  was  not  long, 
therefore,  in  determining  to  accept  a  proposal  which 
rescued  him  from  the  jaws  of  starvation,  and  opened  to 
him  the  prospect  of  extensive  usefulness,  more  especially 
as  the  large  establishment  of  native  servants  and  labourers 
connected  with  the  factory  would  afford  shelter  and  sub- 
sistence to  any  who  might  embrace  Christianity.  No  sooner 
had  he  accepted  Mr.  Udny's  offer,  than  he  considered 
it  his  duty  to  write  to  the  Society  in  England,  and  state 
that  he  was  no  longer  in  circumstances  to  need  any 
personal  support ;  he  likewise  requested  that  the  sum  which 
might  be  considered  as  his  salary,  should  be  devoted  to 
the  printing  of  the  Bengalee  translation  of  the  New  Tes- 
tament. "  At  the  same  time,"  he  adds,  "  it  will  be  my 
glory  and  joy  to  stand  in  the  same  relation  to  the  Society 
as  if  I  needed  support  from  them,  and  to  maintain  the 
same    correspondence  with  them."      The  committee  of 

f2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


68  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.        [Chap.  II. 

the  Society  had  been  enlarged  in  number  since  Mr.  Carey's 
departure,  and,  as  usual,  had  become  more  contracted 
in  its  feelings.  It  now  included  men  of  smaller  minds 
than  those  who  determined  to  begin  a  mission  to  the 
heathen  on  13Z.  2s.  6rf.,  and  who  had  so  nobly  responded 
to  Mr.  Carey's  offer  to  go  out  to  any  part  of  the  world  as  a 
missionary.  The  whole  sum  which  the  committee  remitted 
to  India  between  May,  1793,  and  May,  1796,  for  the  sup- 
port of  two  missionaries  and  their  wives  and  four  children, 
was  only  200Z.  Yet  these  men,  who  had  left  their  gene- 
rous-hearted missionary  so  destitute  in  a  foreign  land,  on 
hearing  that  he  had  accepted  the  charge  of  an  indigo 
factory,  upbraided  him  with  "  allowing  the  spirit  of  the 
missionary  to  be  swallowed  up  in  the  pursuits  of  the 
merchant,"  and  passed  the  following  resolution,  "  That, 
though,  on  the  whole,  we  cannot  disapprove  of  the  conduct 
of  our  brethren  in  their  late  engagement,  yet,  considering 
the  frailty  of  human  nature  in  the  best  of  men,  a  letter 
of  serious  and  affectionate  caution  be  addressed  to  them." 
To  these  ungenerous  suspicions  and  this  redundant  admo- 
nition, Mr.  Carey  replied  in  a  tone  of  subdued  indigna- 
tion, "  I  can  only  say,  that  after  my  family's  obtaining  a 
bare  allowance,  my  whole  income — and  some  months, 
much  more — goes  for  the  purposes  of  the  Gospel,  in  sup- 
porting persons  to  assist  in  the  translation  of  the  Bible, 
in  writing  out  copies  of  it,  and  in  teaching  school.  I  am 
indeed  poor,  and  shall  always  be  so  until  the  Bible  is 
published  in  Bengalee  and  Hindoostanee,  and  the  people 
want  no  further  instruction." 

Mr.  Carey  reached  Malda  on  the  15th  of  June,  1794. 

The  next  day  being  the  Sabbath,  he  preached  his  first 

English  sermon  in  India  in  the  Company's  fac- 

Mr.Carey'ioc-  °   -  -  .*,."'  0 

Sib2lJ?,alMud"  *0I7  "a">  *°  a  8mall  and  attentive  audience  of 
sixteen.  The  factory  of  Mudnabatty,  of  which 
Mr.  Carey  now  undertook  the  superintendence,  was  about 
thirty  miles  north  of  Malda,  while  that  of  Mr.  Thomas  was 
at  the  village  of  Mypaldiggy,  about  sixteen  miles  farther 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1795.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SEBAMPOBE  MISSION.  69 

north.  In  that  quiet  seclusion,  free  from  pecuniary 
anxieties,  Mr.  Carey  passed  more  than  five  years  of  his  life, 
and  was  thus  enabled  to  prepare  himself  for  that  more  ex- 
tended and  important  sphere  of  usefulness  which  was  after- 
wards unfolded  to  him.  Mr.  Udny  informed  him  at  their  first 
interview  that  his  monthly  allowance  would  be  200  rupees, 
in  addition  to  which  he  would  receive  a  commission  on  all 
the  indigo  that  was  manufactured.  Of  this  income,  he 
was  enabled,  by  rigid  economy,  to  devote  a  fourth,  and 
often  a  third,  to  missionary  objects.  The  establishment  at 
the  factory  consisted  of  about  ninety  natives  who  formed 
his  regular  congregation,  and  he  constantly  itinerated 
among  the  villages  around  him.  No  sooner  had  he  ob- 
tained a  settled  habitation  than  his  active  mind  was  turned 
to  the  improvement  of  agriculture,  and  in  one  of  his  first 
letters  to  England  he  requested  Mr.  Fuller  to  send  him  out 
implements,  scythes,  sickles,  and  plough  wheels,  together 
with  an  annual  supply  of  garden  and  flower  seeds,  and  seeds 
of  different  trees.  "  I  will  regularly  remit  the  money  to 
you ;  it  will  be  a  lasting  advantage  to  the  country,  and 
I  shall  have  an  opportunity  of  doing  this  for  what  I  may 
now  call  my  own  country."  His  time  was  systematically 
apportioned  to  the  management  of  the  factory,  the  study 
of  the  language,  the  translation  of  the  New  Testament, 
and  addresses  to  the  heathen.  The  factory  of  Mudnabatty 
was,  however,  in  an  unhealthy  locality,  and  Mr.  Carey  was, 
in  September,  prostrated  by  a  severe  fever,  which  at  one 
time  threatened  his  life.  But  while  he  was  spared  for 
future  usefulness,  one  of  his  younger  children  was  carried 
off  by  dysentery,  which  so  deeply  affected  Mrs.  Carey's 
mind  as  gradually  to  deprive  her  of  reason,  and  from  that 
time  to  the  day  of  her  death,  it  was  necessary  to  keep  her 
under  restraint. 

The  year  1795  opened  with  large  projects  of  usefulness 
struck  out  by  Mr.  Carey's  enthusiastic  feelings.  He  had 
commenced  a  native  school  in  the  previous  year,  but 
he  found  that  the  poverty  of  the  parents  constrained 

v  3 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


70  HISTORY  OP  THE  SERAMPORB  MISSION.      [Chap.  IL 

them  to  remove  their  children  before  they  had  begun  to  de- 
rive much  benefit  from  instruction.  To  meet  this  diffi- 
culty he  proposed  to  feed,  clothe,  and  educate  a 
pllt  toJgJp"  limited  number,  giving  them  tuition  in  Sanskrit, 
Persian,  and  Bengalee,  and  instructing  them  in 
various  branches  of  useful  knowledge,  and  in  the  doctrines 
and  duties  of  Christianity.  But  the  time  had  not  arrived, 
nor  was  Malda  the  place,  for  so  extensive  an  institution. 
In  August,  his  attention  was  turned  to  the  duty  which 
must  soon  devolve  on  him,  of  printing  the  Bengalee  trans- 
lation of  the  New  Testament.  He  was  inclined  at  first 
to  send  to  England  for  a  fount  of  types,  but  he  relin- 
quished the  design,  on  learning  that  they  might  be* 
Fir*  printing  in  obtained  in  the  country  itself.  The  first  Ben- 
Beng*ree-  galee  types  ever  used  in  India  were  those  em- 

ployed in  1778,  in  printing  Halhed's  Bengalee  Grammar 
at  a  press  in  Hooghly,  of  which  no  record  now  remains. 
The  punches  for  the  fount  were  prepared  by  Mr.  (after- 
wards Sir.  Charles)  Wilkins  the  eminent  Orientalist,  who, 
under  the  patronage  of  Warren  Hastings,  first  unlocked 
the  treasures  of  Sanskrit  lore  to  the  literati  of  Europe 
by  the  translation  of  the  Bhagvat  Geeta.  Mr.  Wilkins 
was  a  member  of  the  civil  service  of  the  East  India 
Company,  but  so  great  was  his  anxiety  to  promote  the  in- 
terests of  Oriental  literature  that  he  instructed  himself  in 
the  art  of  punch  cutting,  and  cut  a  set  of  Bengalee 
punches  with  his  own  hands,  after  he  had  been  six  or  seven 
years  in  the  country.  He  likewise  gave  instruction  in 
the  art  which  he  had  acquired,  to  an  expert  native  black- 
smith of  the  name  of  Punchanon,  through  whose  labours 
it  became  domesticated  in  Bengal.  The  next  notice 
which  exists  of  the  printing  of  any  work  in  Bengalee 
was  that  of  the  admirable  code  of  Regulations  drawn  up 
by  Sir  Elijah  Impey,  which  became  the  basis  of  all  subse- 
quent legislation.  These  Regulations  were  translated  into 
Bengalee  by  Mr.  Jonathan  Duncan,  eventually  Governor 
of  Bombay,  after  he  had  been  little  more  than  two  years 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1795.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SBRAMPORB  MISSION.  71 

in  the  country,  and  they  were  printed  at  the  "  Company's 
press"  in  1785.  The  great  Cornwallis  Code  of  1793,  trans- 
lated into  simple  and  idiomatic  Bengalee  by  Mr.  Foster, 
the  most  eminent  Bengalee  scholar  till  the  appearance 
of  Mr.  Carey,  was  likewise  printed  at  the  government 
press,  but  from  an  improved  fount.  It  was  to  this  fount 
that  Mr.  Carey,  alludes,  and  it  continued  to  be  the  standard 
of  typography  till  it  was  superseded  by  the  smaller  and 
neater  fount  prepared  at  Serampore. 

It  was  in  the  year  1795  that  the  Missionary  Society; 
which  afterwards  took  the  more  specific  designation  of  the 
London  Missionary  Society,  was  formed  in  London.  It 
was  a  large  and  comprehensive  association,  intended  to 
embrace  and  concentrate  the  efforts  of  those  sections  of  the 
Christian  church  which  were  in  accord  on  the  subject  of 
baptism.  One  of  the  most  eminent  men  of  the  day 
describes  it  as  "the  large  new  London  Society,  formed 
chiefly  by  Dissenters  of  various  denominations  and  irregu- 
lar Churchmen."  The  members  of  the  Independent  de- 
nomination formed  the  sinews  of  the  Society,  and  on  them 
the  task  of  perpetuating  and  enlarging  its  operations  has 
since  devolved.  The  torch  of  this  Society,  as  one  of  its 
founders  gracefully  admitted,  was  lighted  at  the  missionary 
altar  which  the  Baptists  had  raised.  It  was  Mr.  Carey's 
communications  which  kindled  this  flame,  and  became  the 
immediate  occasion  of  organising  a  missionary  agency, 
which,  during  the  last  sixty  years,  has  been  second  to 
none  in  zeal  and  efficiency.  The  Rev.  Dr.  Bogue  and 
Mr.  Stephen  happened  to  be  in  Bristol  when  Dr.  Ryland 
received  the  first  intelligence  from-  Mr.  Carey  and  Mr. 
Thomas  after  their  arrival  in  Bengal.  Dr.  Ryland  had 
previously  made  Mr.  Bogue's  acquaintance,  and,  under  the 
impulse  of  his  feelings,  sent  a  messenger  to  request  him 
and  his  friend  to  come  and  hear  the  letters  read.  After 
listening  to  this  report  of  the  first  proceedings  of  the  mis- 
sionaries, they  knelt  down  and  prayed  for  a  blessing  on 
their  labours,  and  then  retired  to  their  own  residence  and 

74 


Digitized  by 


Google 


72  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPOBE  MISSION.       [Chap.  H. 

discussed  the  question  of  forming  a  society  in  their  own 
connection.  They  then  called  on  Mr.  Hey,  a  gentleman 
of  great  weight  in  the  city  of  Bristol,  and  having  received 
the  promise  of  his  support,  sent  a  communication  to  the 
"  Evangelical  Magazine."  Soon  after  a  meeting  was  con- 
vened in  London,  and  the  London  Missionary  Society  was 
established. 

A  few  months  after  the  formation  of  the  London  Mis- 
sionary Society,  an  effort  was  made  by  Mr.  Haldane,  one 
of  its  warmest  supporters,  to  go  out  to  Bengal  and  plant  a 
Mission  there.  Mr.  Haldane  was  the  descendant  of  an 
ancient  and  distinguished  family  in  Scotland,  and  inherited 
large  landed  property,  to  which  he  had  retired  after  a 
career  of  honourable  service  in  the  royal  navy.  The  per- 
usal of  the  first  number  of  the  Periodical  Accounts,  the 
journal  of  the  Baptist  Missionary  Society,  which  contained 
an  account  of  the  labours  of  Mr.  Carey,  produced  so 
powerful  an  effect  on  the  mind  of  Mr.  Haldane,  that  he 
determined  to  sell  the  valuable  estate  of  Airthrey,  which 
he  had  been  employed  for  ten  years  in  beautifying,  and  to 
devote  the  proceeds  to  the  support  of  his  Mission.  Ample 
funds  were  provided  for  the  undertaking  by  this  noble  and 
disinterested  sacrifice,  and  three  of  his  friends,  Mr.  (after- 
wards Dr.)  Bogue,  Mr.  Innes,  and  Mr.  Greville  Ewing, 
animated  with  the  same  impulse,  consented  to  accompany 
him  to  India.  It  was  also  intended  to  take  out  a  well- 
equipped  printing-office,  and  a  staff  of  catechists,  itinerants, 
and  school-masters.  When  the  arrangements  were  com- 
pleted, application  was  made  to  the  Indian  authorities  for 
permission  to  embark  for  India.  Mr.  Dundas,  the  Presi- 
dent of  the  Board  of  Control,  was  a  family  connection  of 
Mr.  Haldane,  and  had  known  him  from  his  childhood. 
Mr.  Haldane  addressed  him  on  the  subject  of  the  enterprise 
with  a  manly  frankness,  candidly  stating  his  object,  and 
asking  the  assistance  of  his  position.  Four  months  appear 
to  have  been  passed  in  attempts  to  obtain  the  necessary 
permission  to  proceed  to  India,  and  at  the  end  of  this  time 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1795.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SEBAMPORE  MISSION.  73 

Mr.  Wilberforce  came  up  to  London  and  used  all  the 
influence  he  possessed  with  the  ministry  on  Mr.  Haldane's 
behalf,  but  it  was  all  to  no  purpose.  Both  Mr.  Wilberforce 
and  Mr.  Haldane  were  baffled  by  the  diplomacy  of  Cannon 
Row.  It  has  been  surmised  that  Mr.  Haldane's  extreme 
political  opinions  stood  in  the  way ;  but  he  neither  felt  nor 
had  expressed  any  democratic  opinions;  and  if  he  had,  in 
embarking  in  the  Mission,  he  renounced  politics ;  but  it  is 
certain  that  if  he  had  been  as  pure  a  Tory  as  Mr.  Dundas 
himself,  he  would  not  have  been  allowed  to  go  out  to  India 
and  establish  a  Mission.  Mr.  Dundas's  feelings  on  the  sub- 
ject of  Indian  Missions  coincided  with  those  of  the  India 
House,  though  he  never  went  so  far  as  to  say,  as  one  of  the 
Directors  was  reported  to  have  said,  that  he  would  rather 
see  a  band  of  devils  in  India  than  a  band  of  missionaries. 
When  Mr.  Haldane  applied  to  the  Court  of  Directors  for 
permission  to  proceed  to  India,  he  received  a  very  compli- 
mentary reply  and  a  very  peremptory  refusal.  The  Court 
were  convinced  of  the  sincerity  of  his  motives  and  appre- 
ciated the  zeal  which  had  led  him  to  sacrifice  personal  conve- 
nience "to  the  religious  and  moral  purposes  described  in  his 
letter;"  but  then  the  Court  had  "weighty  and  substantial 
reasons  which  induced  them  to  decline  a  compliance  with 
his  request;"  and  so  this  noble  scheme  fell  to  the  ground. 
The  hostility  of  the  Court  of  Directors  to  the  settlement 
of  Europeans  in  India  became  more  intense  as  their 
dominions  became  more  extended.     One  of  the  HMumrofthe 

_         _  .    .  Bast  India  Com- 

most  emment  members  of  the  Court,  writing  on  SS£l^?SS^ 
this  subject  in  the  present  year  to  a  friend  in  J"*0**1111""*- 
India,  describes  the  Indian  system  in  one  comprehensive 
sentence: — "The  present  system  is  to  govern  our  vast 
Indian  possessions,  and  conduct  our  immense  Asiatic  trade 
by  one  national  organ,  the  India  Company."  India  was  in 
fact  the  preserve  of  the  Corporation,  and  no  subject  is 
more  frequently  reiterated  in  the  despatches  of  the  India 
House  than  the  unalterable  determination  of  the  Directors 
to  prevent  the  intrusion  of  interlopers,  and  to  keep  their 

YOL.  I.  *  T  5 


Digitized  by 


Google 


74  HISTOEY  OF   THE   SERAMTORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  II. 

own  countrymen  aloof  from  their  dominions.  Licenses  were 
granted  with  great  caution  and  reserve ;  the  emigrant  was 
required  to  state  distinctly  the  occupation  he  intended  to 
follow,  and  the  local  authorities  were  instructed  to  send 
him  back  if  he  was  found  to  have  deviated  to  any  other 
vocation.  In  1793  the  Court  renewed  their  orders  for  the 
expulsion  of  all  unlicensed  persons.  "If  any  person," 
they  say  in  their  despatch,  "  presume  to  go  to  India,  and 
appear  within  your  jurisdiction  without  a  license,  we 
require  you  forthwith  to  deal  with  him  as  an  unlicensed 
trader,  and  send  him  home  before  he  can  make  such  an 
establishment  as  may  be  an  excuse  for  time  being  allowed 
him  to  prepare  for  his  return."  Still,  there  were  hundreds 
of  Europeans  residing  in  the  interior  of  the  country  with- 
out a  license,  and  any  attempt  to  send  them  back  to 
England  would  have  brought  an  overwhelming  storm  of 
obloquy  on  the  India  House.  The  Governor-General,  Sir 
John  Shore,  who  fully  participated  in  the  feelings  of  his 
masters  at  home,  advised  them  in  1795  not  to  permit 
more  than  five  or  six,  or  at  the  farthest  ten,  free  merchants 
— or  free  mariners  as  they  were  then  called — to  proceed  to 
India  in  any  one  year.  At  the  same  time  he  issued  an 
order,  directing  every  unlicensed  European  in  the  country 
to  enter  into  "  covenants "  with  the  government,  and  to 
find  securities  for  the  performance  of  them  in  sums  vary- 
ing from  5001.  to  2000/.  This  requisition  placed  all  the 
Europeans  in  India  at  the  mercy  of  government,  notwith- 
standing the  existence  of  an  independent  Crown  Court  in 
the  metropolis.  This  was  considered  a  very  oppressive 
proceeding,  and  Mr.  William  Fairley,  one  of  the  leading 
merchants  in  Calcutta,  refused  to  sign  any  covenant,  and 
dared  the  government  to  deport  him.  "  But  these  big 
words,"  remarks  Mr.  Carey,  "cannot  be  uttered  out  of 
little  mouths."  It  is  due  to  the  Company  and  to  the 
government  of  India  to  state  that  the  extraordinary  powers 
with  which  they  were  thus  armed  were  used  with  the 
most  exemplary  moderation,  and  that  during  the  next  ten 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1796.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SBRAMPORE  MISSION.  75 

• 

years,  only  two  Europeans  were  sent  out  of  the  country, 
and  they  were  men  of  the  most  turbulent  disposition. 
Under  this  new  order,  Mr.  Carey  was  returned  as  an  in- 
digo planter,  residing  in  the  district  of  Malda,  and  Mr. 
Udny  and  another  friend  stood  his  securities. 

Towards  the  close  of  1796,  Mr.  Fountain  joined  the 
Mission  at  Mudnabatty.  He  went  out  in  one  of  the  Com- 
pany's ships,  rated  as  a  servant,  and  entered  Mr.  Founts 
Calcutta  without  observation,  and  obtained  **•*•<**• 
friendly  assistance  from  Mr.  Udny  and  Mr.  Brown  to  ena- 
ble him  to  proceed  up  the  country.  He  was  a  man  of  small 
stature  and  small  mind ;  he  possessed  no  energy  of  cha- 
racter, and  added  little  to  the  strength  of  the  infant  cause. 
He  applied  himself  with  earnestness  to  the  study  of  the 
language,  and  in  due  time  was  able  to  address  the  natives 
with  some  degree  of  fluency.  Before  he  left  England  he 
had  caught  the  contagion  of  that  democratic  frenzy 
which  the  French  revolution  had  diffused,  and  adopted 
sentiments  hostile  to  the  existing  institutions  of  govern- 
ment. On  his  arrival  in  India,  though  living  under  the 
most  despotic  form  of  government,  he  had  not  the  prudence 
to  repress  these  views,  but  in  the  intercourse  of  society, 
and  in  his  letters  to  England,  indulged  in  the  most  virulent 
and  contumelious  remarks  on  the  constituted  authorities 
both  in  India  and  in  England.  His  expressions  would  in 
all  probability  be  considered  tame  at  the  present  period 
of  unrestrained  freedom,  but  they  were  culpably  imprudent 
in  the  circumstances  in  which  he  was  placed.  The  local 
authorities  were  morbidly  sensitive  of  any  strictures  on 
their  personal  character  or  public  acts,  and  they  pos- 
sessed the  power  of  summary  deportation  without  appeal, 
and  every  individual  living  in  India  by  sufferance,  was  there- 
fore required  to  be  prudent  in  the  extreme  in  his  conver- 
sation and  correspondence.  Mr.  Fountain  had  indulged 
in  sneers  at  the  Honourable  Company  in  his  letters,  and  it 
was  found  that  many  of  them  had  been  opened  at  the  Post 
Office.    Mr.  Fuller  became  alarmed  for  the  consequence ; 


Digitized  by 


Google 


76  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMFORE  MISSION.       [Chap.  II. 

he  had  never  been  touched  by  the  republican  mania  of  the 
day;  the  Mission  was  the  one  absorbing  object  of  his 
thoughts  and  his  solicitude,  and  he  reprobated  what  he 
considered  Mr.  Fountain's  folly  in  the  most  determined 
language  in  a  series  of  letters  spread  over  several  years, 
from  which  we  give  some  brief  extracts.  "  We  confide  in 
Mr.  Fountain  for  the  most  peaceable  and  prudent  conduct 
In  his  whole  deportment.  The  principles  which  you"  —  he 
was  writing  to  Mr.  Carey — "avowed  in  your  last  letter 
might  be  printed  as  the  missionary  creed.  i  Whatever 
be  my  ideas  of  the  best  or  worst  modes  of  civil  govern- 
ment, the  Bible  teaches  me  to  be  an  obedient  and 
peaceable  subject.' "  "  Mr.  Fountain's  letter  has  filled 
us  with  disgust.  It  appears  to  us  to  be  not  only  unac- 
countably imprudent,  but  utterly  repugnant  to  the  spirit 
of  Christianity,  as  well  as  to  his  own  solemn  engage- 
ments. It  is  as  mean  and  as  contrary  to  good  manners  as 
it  is  to  Christianity  to  be  throwing  squibs  against  any 
order  of  men"  Writing  to  Mr.  Fountain  himself,  he  says : 
"  Is  it  wise  that  you  should  hazard,  perhaps  the  existence 
of  the  Mission,  for  the  sake  of  sneering  at  the  King  or  the 
Honourable  Company?  We  are  required  by  the  New 
Testament  to  pray  for  all  that  are  in  authority ;  but  this 
we  cannot  do  without  mockery,  unless  we  bear  good  will 
towards  them,  and  that  in  their  official  capacity ;  and  it  is 
written,  c  Thou  shalt  not  speak  evil  of  thy  ruler  or  rulers ;' 
but  to  deal  in  sarcastic  reflections  on  them  is  the  worst 
kind  of  evil  speaking,  and  is  utterly  inconsistent  with  the 
practice  of  Christ  and  his  apostles.  You  say  you  are  not 
ignorant  of  men  in  India  who  are  dissatisfied  with  the 
Company ;  and  I  am  not  ignorant  of  many  in  England  who 
are  the  same  with  the  government,  and  who,  I  believe,  would 
not  only  be  glad  to  see  things  reformed,  but  utterly  over- 
turned ;  but  I  never  give  encouragement  to  such  talk,  much 
less  join  in  it.  I  am  not  an  old  man,  but  I  have  lived 
long  enough  to  perceive  that  nine  out  of  ten  who  are  cla- 
morous for  liberty,  only  wish  for  a  share  in  the  power. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1796.]  HISTORY  OF  THE   SERAMPORE  MISSION.  77 

Follow  them  into  private  life,  and  you  will  find  them 
tyrants  to  their  wives,  children,  servants,  and  neighbours. 
I  have  observed  also  that  those  ministers  who  have  been  the 
most  violent  partisans  for  democratic  liberty,  are  commonly 
not  only  cold-hearted  in  religion,  but  the  most  imperious 
in  their  own  churches.  Now,  whatever  fault  I  may  see 
in  the  government  of  my  own  country,  I  had  rather 
live  under  it  than  under  such  kind  of  liberty  as  I  should 
have  reason  to  expect  from  such  characters."  "  If  you 
are  so  infatuated  with  political  folly  as  not  to  be  able  to 
write  a. letter  to  England  without  sneering  sarcasms  against 
government,  cursing  monopolies,  expressing  the  hope  of 
revolution  work  going  on,  &c,  I  must  say,  once  for  all,  it 
is  my  judgment  that  the  Society,  much  as  they  esteem  you 
in  other  respects,  will  be  under  the  necessity  of  publicly 
disowning  you.  Brother  Fountain,  you  have  been  playing 
so  long  at  the  mouth  of  the  cockatrice's  den,  that  he  seems 
to  you  harmless.  Spare  thyself;  or,  if  you  have  no  regard 
for  yourself,  spare  that  cause  which  is  worth  thousands  of 
such  lives  as  yours  and  ours."  In  the  last  letter  on 
the  subject,  in  writing  to  Mr.  Carey,  he  says,  "  If  these 
notions  continue  in  Mr.  Fountain,  and  that  spirit  which 
has  hitherto  distinguished  many  of  his  letters,  and  more 
especially  his  journal,  it  will  be,  as  blessed  Pearce  expressed 
it,  a  cankerworm  at  the  root  of  his  religion,  as  well  as  a 
millstone  about  the  Mission.  0  my  dear  Carey !  my  soul 
is  cast  down  within  me  on  his  account.  I  will  take  his 
letters  and  journals  to  the  committee,  and  they  must  pro- 
ceed as  they  think  proper ;  but  if  such  things  are  permit- 
ted to  continue,  I  say  again,  I  must  relinquish  my  post." 
Mr.  Carey's  secular  position  and  prospects  were  now 
become  precarious.  During  the  three  years  in  which  he 
had    superintended  the    factory,   it  had    not 

Mr  Caravt  fkc- 

flourished.     The  locality  had  been  selected  by  grim*  Aourw*. 
native  agents,  and  without  judgment,  and  was 
found  to  be  ill-adapted  for  the  manufacture  of  indigo.     A 
succession  of  poor  seasons  had  subjected  Mr.   Udny  to 


Digitized  by 


Google 


78  HISTORY  OF  THE  8ERAMPORE  MISSION.       [Chap.  H. 

severe  loss ;  he  was  obliged  to  carry  on  the  works  with 
borrowed  capital,  for  which  he  was  required  to  pay  exor- 
bitant interest,  at  a  time  when  the  government  itself 
could  not  raise  funds  under  twelve  per  cent.  He  now 
contemplated  the  necessity  of  relinquishing  the  factories, 
and  Mr.  Carey,  in  stating  this  fact  to  the  committee,  re- 
marked that  he  might  shortly  be  left  without  any  indepen- 
dent income.  Mr.  Fuller's  influence  appears  again  to  have 
been  in  the  ascendant;  and  the  committee  responded  to 
Mr.  Carey's  intimation  in  a  spirit  of  generosity,  which 
served  to  obliterate  the  remembrance  of  their  former 
littleness.  On  the  29th  of  August,  1797,  they  passed  the 
following  resolution: — "That  our  brethren  having  in  a 
disinterested  manner  declined  their  ordinary  income  from 
us  at  a  time  when  they  thought  they  could  do  without 
it,  and  various  unforeseen  circumstances  having  since 
occurred,  which  render  it  necessary  that  we  should  afford 
them  substantial  assistance :  Resolved,  that  at  this  time 
we  will  pay  them  those  arrears  which,  for  a  time,  they 
have  voluntarily  declined,  and  that  the  mode  of  future 
subsistence  be  left  to  the  discretion  of  Mr.  Carey."  But 
the  prospect  of  being  left  without  support  did  not  abate 
Mr.  Carey's  missionary  zeal.  In  the  letter  to  the  society, 
in  which  he  mentioned  the  probability  of  his  being  left 
destitute,  he  said  not  a  word  regarding  the  renewal  of  his 
salary,  still  less  about  the  payment  of  arrears,  but  advised 
the  Society  "  to  set  their  faces  earnestly  towards  India." 
He  proposed  to  form  a  missionary  settlement 

"Mr    Carer  nr(v 

v<»***Monvi»n  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Malda,  after  the 
model  of  the  Moravians.  "  We  ought,"  says  he, 
"  to  be  seven  or  eight  families  together ;  and  it  is  abso- 
lutely necessary  for  the  wives  of  the  missionaries  to  be  as 
hearty  in  the  work  as  their  husbands ; "  a  remark  dictated 
by  the  bitterness  of  his  own  experience.  u  Our  families 
should  be  considered  nurseries  for  the  Mission;  and 
among  us  should  be  a  person  capable  of  teaching  school, 
so  as  to  educate  our  children.     I  recommend  all  living 


*? 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1797.]  HISTORY  OF  THB  SBRAMPOBB  MISSION.  79 

together  in  a  number  of  little  straw  houses  forming  a  line 
or  square,  and  having  nothing  of  our  own,  but  all  the 
general  stock.  One  or  two  should  be  elected  stewards  to 
preside  over  the  management,  which  should,  with  respect 
to  eating,  drinking,  worship,  working,  learning,  preaching 
excursions,  be  reduced  to  fixed  rules."  He  estimated  the 
expense  of  eight  families,  if  living  distinct,  at  lOOOrs. 
a  month,  but  if  in  common  at  400  rs.;  that  is,  50rs.  a 
month  for  each  family;  adding  that  the  produce  of  the  land 
would  lessen  even  that,  and  probably  reduce  the  demand 
on  the  funds  of  the  society  to  30rs.  He  assured  Mr. 
Fuller  that  all  his  calculations  might  be  depended  on,  yet 
nothing  could  be  more  baseless.  The  primitive  simplicity 
of  his  plan  is  a  pleasing  index  of  his  zeal  and  disinterested- 
ness, but  it  is  no  proof  of  his  judgment.  Such  a  settle- 
ment could  not  have  held  together  for  a  twelvemonth. 
Even  if  his  straw  houses  and  mud  floors  had  not  sent  half 
the  little  community  to  the  grave  during  the  first  rainy 
season,  the  inconceivable  distress  to  which  the  European 
missionaries  and  their  European  families  must  have  been 
subject  in  such  a  settlement,  must  have  broken  it  up 
almost  as  soon  as  it  was  formed.  It  will  serve  to  show 
how  little  India  was  known  at  that  time  in  England,  that 
a  project  so  Utopian  was  not  only  received  by  Mr.  Fuller 
with  approbation,  but  that  he  determined  to  give  it  a 
practical  exemplification,  and  that  four  missionaries  were 
sent  out  immediately  after  to  make  an  experiment  of  this 
Moravian  settlement. 

In  the  letter  which  embodied  these  crude  and  imprac- 
ticable notions,  Mr.  Carey  informed  the  society  that  the 
translation  of  the  New  Testament — on  which 
he  had  been  labouring  since  his  arrival  with  ^^f*~hii 
intense  devotion — would  be  completed  before 
his  letter  reached  England,  and  that  the  expense  of  print- 
ing 10,000  copies  at  the  rates  then  prevalent  in  Calcutta 
would  be  43,750rs.,  a  sum  which  was  completely  beyond  his 
own  means.     He  proposed  at  first  to  obtain  punches  from 


Digitized  by 


Google 


80  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPOBB  MISSION.      [Chap,  II. 

Oaslon,  the  eminent  letter-founder  in  London,  and  he 
calculated  that  the  cost  of  each  punch  would  be  only  five 
shillings,  not  knowing  that  the  price  of  a  punch  was  a 
guinea.  He  requested  the  society  to  send  out  a  press  and 
paper,  adding  that  if  "a  serious  printer  could  be  found 
willing  to  engage  in  the  Mission,  he  would  be  a  great 
blessing.  Such  a  printer  I  knew  at  Derby  before  I  left 
England."  At  the  beginning  of  1798  it  was  announced 
in  the  papers  that  a  "  letter  foundry  had  been  established 
in  Calcutta  for  the  country  languages ; "  but  all  trace  of 
the  author  or  the  result  of  this  project  has  been  lost, 
except  the  fact  that  the  punches  were  cut  by  the  work- 
men whom  Sir  Charles  Wilkins  had  trained  up.  Mr. 
Carey  immediately  placed  himself  in  communication  with 
.  the  projector  of  the  scheme,  and  relinquished  all  idea  of 
obtaining  Bengalee  types  from  England.  Soon  after  a 
printing  press,  constructed  of  wood,  was  advertised  for 
sale  in  Calcutta,  and  Mr.  Carey  immediately  purchased  it 
for  AOL  ;  but  Mr.  Udny  insisted  on  paying  for  it  himself, 
and  presenting  it  to  the  Mission.  It  was  conveyed  to 
Mudnabatty,  and  set  up  in  a  side  room,  and  the  crowds 
of  natives  who  flocked  to  see  it,  hearing  Mr.  Carey's 
description  of  its  wonderful  power,  pronounced  it  to  be  a 
European  idol. 

During  the  year  1797  Mr.  Charles  Grant  printed  the 
first  treatise  which  had  as  yet  appeared  on  the  intellectual, 
Mr.  owlet  moral,  and  religious  improvement  of  the  natives 
SrisStStaST    of  India.     At  the  close  of  the  India  debate  in 

prcemeot.  j^    ^    jy^fa    hft(J    engaged    tO    bring    for- 

ward  in  the  succeeding  year  Mr.  Wilberforce's  mis- 
sionary clauses,  which  had  created  so  violent  a  ferment,  if 
he  consented  to  their  being  withdrawn  from  the  bill.  But, 
as  in  the  case  of  the  slave  trade,  the  repugnance  to  the 
consideration  of  the  subject  was  only  augmented  by  delay. 
Mr.  Grant,  who  consoled  himself  for  his  disappointment 
by  the  fond  reflection  that  a  great  point  had  been  gained 
by  the  simple  existence  of  the  original  resolutions  on  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1797.1  HISTORY  OE  THE  SEBAMPOEE  MISSION..  81 

records  of  the  House,  found  that  the  battle  of  Indian  im- 
provement had  to  be  fought  inch  by  inch  with  most  deter- 
mined opponents.  He  was  therefore  unremitting  in  his 
exertions  to  press  the  subject  on  the  attention  of  in- 
fluential men ;  but  where  he  did  not  encounter  opposition 
he  was  met  with  indifference-  In  1794  he  was  elected 
one  of  the  Directors  of  the  East  India  Company,  and  was 
thus  enabled  to  ascertain  more  accurately  the  sentiments 
of  his  colleagues  regarding  his  proposal,  as  well  as  to  urge 
it  on  their  consideration.  But  in  his  letters  to  India  he 
spoke  in  a  desponding  strain  of  his  prospects.  "  The  scheme 
which  I  mentioned  to  you  for  extending  the  Gospel  in  the 

East  has  as  yet  no  additional  supporters 

Neither  is  the  public  state  of  things  favourable  for  push- 
ing our  Mission  scheme  in  any  public  channel;  and  Mr* 
Wilberforce,  who  is  the  leader  in  that  line,  has  rather  lost 
ground  lately  with  his  ministerial  friends  by  moving  for 
peace Many  among  the  Directors  and  pro- 
prietors differed  from  me  in  politics  and  religion;  and 
many  such  there  were  who  had  been  on  the  Indian  scene, 
who  were  the  indulgent  apologists,  at  least,  of  the  forms 
of  superstition  prevalent  in  India.  This  last  habit  I 
ascribe  partly  to  real  ignorance  of  the  nature  and  evi- 
dence of  Christianity,  and  partly  to  prejudices  imbibed 
from  infidel  writings  and  conversation."  He  was  deter- 
mined, at  length,  to  bring  the  subject  directly  under  the 
notice  of  the  Directors,  and  he  printed  a  few  copies  of 
"  Observations  on  the  state  of  society  among  the  Asiatic 
subjects  of  Great  Britain,  particularly  with  respect  to 
morals  and  on  the  means  of  improving  them."  In  that 
work  he  collected  into  one  point  of  view  the  various  notices 
which  had  been  published  by  a  succession  of  writers,  and 
the  observations  he  had  personally  made  on  the  moral  and 
religious  degradation  of  the  natives.  He  then  urged  with 
great  earnestness  the  duty  of  raising  their  condition  by 
giving  them  an  English  education,  of  opening  to  them  the 

VOL.  I.  G 


Digitized  by 


Google 


82  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.       [Chap.  EL 

sources  of  European  knowledge,  and  of  communicating  to 
them  the  ennobling  truths  of  the  Bible. 

This  plan  was  introduced  to  the  notice  of  the  Directors 

in  an  address,  in  which  Mr.  Grant  stated,  that  "  in  earlier 

periods  the  Company  manifested  a  laudable  zeal 

It  fells  to  produce    £  ,.  r      X  i 

^immediate  for  extending,  as  far  as  its  means  went,  the 
knowledge  of  the  Gospel  to  the  Pagan  tribes 
among  whom  its  factories  were  placed.  It  has  since  pros- 
pered and  become  great  in  a  way  to  which  the  commercial 
history  of  the  world  affords  no  parallel,  and  for  this  it  is 
indebted  to  the  fostering  and  protecting  care  of  Divine 
Providence.  The  duty,  therefore,  of  the  Company,  as  part 
of  a  Christian  community,  its  peculiar  superadded  obliga- 
tions, its  enlarged  means,  and  its  continual  dependence 
on  Divine  favour,  all  call  on  it  to  honour  God  by  diffusing 
the  knowledge  of  that  revelation  which  he  has  vouch- 
safed to  mankind."  The  work  was  presented  to  the 
Court  of  Directors,  and  also  to  Mr.  Dundas,  who  assured 
Mr.  Grant  that  he  would  give  it  a  serious  perusal  when 
he  had  any  relief  from  the  pressure  of  public  affairs.  That 
relief  came  only  with  his  retirement  from  office,  and  from 
power,  three  years  after.  Among  the  Directors,  the  plan 
of  sending  the  Gospel  to  the  natives  of  India  still  excited 
so  much  angry  resistance  that  Mr.  Grant  was  fain  to 
withdraw  the  treatise  from  observation.  It  remained  un- 
known to  the  public  till  it  was  disinterred  at  the  India 
House  in  1813  by  order  of  Parliament,  and  printed 
among  other  Indian  documents,  when  it  contributed  in  no 
email  degree  to  that  auspicious  resolution  by  which  the 
gates  of  India  were  unlocked  for  the  entrance  of  the 
Gospel.  The  elevated  views  embodied  in  that  treatise  are 
now  the  standard  and  motive  principles  in  the  administra- 
tion of  our  Indian  empire,  and  to  recede  from  them  would 
be  considered  as  preposterous  as  to  revive  the  slave  trade  ; 
and  it  is  therefore  an  act  of  simple  justice  to  offer  a  tribute 
of  grateful  admiration  to  the  memory  of  the  distinguished 
individual  who  braved  the  scorn  of  his  colleagues  by  his 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1797.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SBRAMPORE  MISSIO?.  83 

manly  advocacy  of  them.  Mr,  Grant  sent  a  copy  of  the 
work  to  Mr.  Fuller,  who  remarks  in  a  letter  to  Mr.  Carey 
on  the  subject:  "In  reading  Mr:  Grant's  book,  I  was 
wonderfully  struck  with  the  moral  efficacy  of  Christianity. 
I  had  hitherto  almost  confined  that  effect  to  true  believers, 
but  I  now  see  that  the  effect  which  it  produces  in  the 
hearts  of  true  believers  is  but  a  small  part  of  it.  It  fixes 
the  standard  of  morals  by  which  the  consciences  of  people 
in  general  are  influenced.  It  also  gives  a  tone  to  public 
opinion,  which  is  a  law  of  wonderful  efficacy  in  society." 
Notwithstanding  the  repugnance  of  the  Court  to  Mr. 
Grant's  general  views,  they  yielded  so  far  to  his  solicita- 
tion as  to  grant  permission  in  1798  to  the  Rev.  Tobias 
Ringletaube  to  proceed  as  a  missionary  to  Calcutta.  But 
it  was  only  in  consideration  of  the  fact  that  this  arrange- 
ment was  in  the  "  established  line ; "  in  other  words,  that 
it  was  a  continuation  of  the  privilege  which  the  Honour- 
able Society  for  Promoting  Christian  Knowledge  had 
enjoyed  from  the  Honourable  the  Court  of  Directors  for  a 
hundred  years,  and  that  the  Mission  was  not  to  the 
heathen,  that  the  license  was  granted. 

Mr.  Grant  was  as  anxious  to  provide  the  means  of 
religious  instruction  for  the  European  residents  in  India 
as  for  the  native  idolaters.     The  number  of 
chaplains  at  the  Bengal  Presidency  did  not  at  *ur? forXX- 

.,       7      ,.  i        .  m  provement  of  Eu- 

that  time  exceed  six  or  seven.     Two  were  ">£■»  «*»*y  *- 

India. 

ordinarily  stationed  in  Calcutta,  and  the  rest  at 
the  principal  garrisons  in  the  interior.  A  hundred  years 
before  this  period,  the  chaplains  were  required  by  act  of 
parliament,  and  the  rules  of  the  India  House,  to  study  the 
native  languages  and  impart  religious  instruction  to  the 
natives  connected  with  the  Company.  But  so  completely 
had  the  religious  element  in  the  government  disappeared, 
that  at  this  time  they  were  not  required  to  perform  divine 
service  of  any  description  for  the  Christian  servants  of 
the  state.  There  existed  no  church  at  the  Bengal  Presi- 
dency except  in  Calcutta ;  at  the  other  stations  there  was 

G  2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


84  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.       [Chap.  II. 

no  sermon,  and  not  so  much  as  any  religious  service. 
The  labours  of  the  chaplain  were  confined  to  his  sur- 
plice duties  of  marrying,  christening,  and  burying.  Mr. 
Buchanan,  an  evangelical  chaplain  sent  out  by  Mr,  Grant 
with  high  expectations  of  usefulness,  was  appointed  on 
his  arrival  to  the  military  station  of  Barrackpore,  within 
fourteen  miles  of  Calcutta,  and  he  acknowledged  to  Mr* 
Carey  that  he  had  never  read  the  liturgy  in  public,  be- 
cause he  had  no  church.  Mr.  Grant  was  anxious  to  pro- 
vide a  remedy  for  this  disgraceful  neglect,  and  repeatedly 
urged  his  friend  Sir  John  Shore,  after  he  had  been  ap- 
pointed Governor-General,  to  make  a  vigorous  representa- 
tion on  this  subject  to  the  India  House  and  the  Board  of 
Control.  But  all  that  Sir  John  could  be  induced  to 
recommend  after  repeated  importunity  was,  that  chapels 
should  be  erected  at  the  three  great  cities  of  Dacca,  Patna, 
and  Moorshedabad,  and  at  the  military  station  of  Ber- 
hampore,  for  the  use  and  edification  of  Christians,  and 
that  a  subordinate  class  of  chaplains  should  be  appointed 
to  them  at  the  recommendation  of  the  Archbishop  of 
Canterbury,  with  salaries  not  exceeding  150  rupees  a 
month.  This  proposal  was  acceptable  to  the  Court  of 
Directors,  with  the  exception  of  the  clause  which  related 
to  the  pay  of  the  chaplains,  which  was  rejected  with  much 
reason,  as  creating  an  invidious  distinction.  For  the 
first  time  since  the  battle  of  Plassey  the  Court  sanctioned 
the  expense  of  building  churches  out  of  Calcutta;  but 
u  they  were  to  be  progressively  erected,  so  as  not  to  press 
too  heavily  on  the  public  resources  ;  and  they  were  to  be 
as  plain  and  simple  as  possible,  that  all  unnecessary  ex- 
pense might  be  avoided."  None  of  these  churches,  how- 
ever, were  erected  for  another  quarter  of  a  centuiy.  But 
though  there  was  no  public  service  of  any  kind  on  the 
Sunday  at  any  station  in  the  country,  there  was  no  lack 
of  horse  races.  In  the  despatch  from  the  India  House  of 
the  25th  of  May,  1798,  containing  the  concessions  above- 
stated  for  the  erection  of  churches,   the  court  took  a 


Digitized  by 


Google 


J 798.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  85 

general  view  of  the  state  of  morals  among  their  own 
servants  at  the  presidency.  The  despatch  was  drafted  by 
Mr.  Grant,  who  was  so  happy  as  to  meet  with  the  strongest 
encouragement  from  his  colleagues  in  the  Direction.  It 
stated  that  "  it  was  no  uncommon  thing  for  the  solemnity 
of  the  Sabbath  to  be  broken  in  upon  by  horse  racing ;  and 
that  they  had  then  before  them  a  printed  paper  from 
which  it  appeared  that  no  less  than  eight  matches  were 
run  at  Chinsurah  in  one  day,  and  that  the  Sabbath."  The 
Directors  say  they  were  astonished  and  shocked  by  this 
wide  deviation  from  one  of  the  most  distinguishing  and 
universal  institutions  of  Christianity,  and  they  order  that 
such  profanation  of  the  Sabbath  be  forbidden  and  pre- 
vented ;  that  divine  service  be  regularly  performed  at  all 
the  military  stations;  that  all  European  officers  and 
soldiers  be  required  punctually  to  attend,  and  that  if  any 
chaplain  neglected  his  duty,  or  by  his  conduct  brought 
discredit  on  his  profession,  he  be  dismissed  the  service. 
The  despatch  went  on  to. reprobate  the  vice  of  gaming, 
which  had  extended  from  the  aristocracy  of  England  to 
the  public  functionaries  in  India.  For  seventy  years,  the 
Court  had  laboured  to  eradicate  this  vice  from  their  esta- 
blishments with  unabated  zeal.  At  an  earlier  period  they 
had  ordered,  that  as  an  act  of  parliament  had  prohibited 
all  gaming  above  10/.,  the  same  rule  should  be  enforced 
in  their  settlements,  and  that  any  person,  whether  female 
or  male,  who  was  found  to  have  gambled  beyond  that 
amount  should  be  forthwith  sent  back  to  England.  But 
the  vice  was  not  extinguished  by  these  repeated  prohibi- 
tions, and  in  the  despatch  of  1798  the  Court  were  again 
called  on  to  reprobate  it,  and  to  direct  that  "the  pro- 
moters of  such  licentiousness  should  be  peremptorily  re- 
moved from  office  and  sent  to  England." 

Sir  John  Shore  laid  down  the  office  of  Governor-General 
in  1798,  and  returned  to  England.  His  official  career 
in  India  was  distinguished  chiefly  by  that  great  financial 
measure,  the  decennial  settlement  of  the  land  revenues  of 

G  3 


Digitized  by 


Google 


86  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPOBB  MISSION.       [Chap.  IL 

Bengal  and  Behar,  which,  in  spite  of  his  remonstrance, 
was  made  unalterable  and  perpetual,  and  has  entailed  in- 
sir  John  shore  calculable  wretchedness  on,  more  than  thirty 
SSSSSttTm  millions  of  people  for  the  last  sixty  years.  He 
c  m*ct*r.  possessed  great  local  knowledge  of  affairs  and 

large  official  experience ;  but  it  was  a  great  mistake  to  sup- 
pose that  a  good  revenue  officer  must  necessarily  make  a 
good  Governor-General.  His  administration  of  five  years 
was  characterised  by  timidity,  feebleness,  and  lethargy.  He 
was  imbued  with  feelings  of  the  most  genuine  piety,  and 
in  his  own  conduct  he  exhibited  a  noble  pattern  of  Chris- 
tian virtue,  but  he  effected  nothing  for  the  moral  and  in- 
tellectual improvement  either  of  the  country  or  the  public 
service.  Perhaps  the  Hindooism  of  the  European  com- 
munity around  him  may  have  damped  his  feelings,  but  it 
is  to  be  regretted  that  the  most  religious  of  all  Governor- 
Generals  should  not  have  possessed  sufficient  strength  of 
character  to  counteract  it,  and  to  pursue  his  own  course  of 
reform  with  resolution.  On  his  return  to  England  he  was 
rewarded  with  an  Irish  peerage,  as  Lord  Teignmouth,  and 
on  the  formation  of  the  Bible  Society  in  1804,  he  became 
its  first  president,  where  he  was  much  more  in  his  place, 
than  at  the  head  of  the  Indian  government.  His  feeble 
rule  was  succeeded  by  that  of  one  of  the  most  energetic, 
able,  and  successful  statesmen  to  whom  the  destinies  of 
India  have  ever  been  committed.  This  illustrious  noble- 
succeededby  man,  better  known  by  his  subsequent  title  of 
LordMormngton.  tfae  Marquig  Wellesley,  the  bosom  friend  of  Mr. 

Pitt,  the  elder  brother  of  the  Duke  of  Wellington,  whose 
genius  he  was  the  first  to  discover  and  foster,  landed  in 
Calcutta  on  the  14th  of  October,  1798.  He  had  already  dis* 
tinguished  himself  in  the  English  and  Irish  Parliaments,  and 
now  came  out  to  create  a  reputation  for  the  highest  order 
of  British  statesmanship.  On  hearing  of  his  appointment, 
Mr.  Fuller  advised  Mr.  Carey  to  wait  on  him,  and  avow 
his  missionary  vocation,  and  thus  endeavour  to  establish  the 
Mission  upon  a  permanent  basis.    Mr.  Carey's  reply  affords 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1798.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SBRAMPOBE  MISSION.  87 

a  striking  representation  of  the  restrictions  then  imposed 
on  the  residence  of  Europeans,  and  the  feelings  which 
prevailed  in  the  government  circle  regarding  Missions. 
"The  visit  which  you  propose  for  us  to  make  to  the 
Governor-General,  Lord  Mornington,  though  proposed  in 
the  utmost  simplicity  of  your  heart,  yet  excited  a  little 
risibility  in  us.  I  wish  I  could  make  you  understand  a 
little  about  legal  settlements,  &c,  but  you  must  first  drop 
your  English  ideas,  and  get  Indian  ones.  No  such  thing 
as  a  legal  settlement  in  the  English  sense  can  ever  be 
made  here,  because  a  general  law  has  been  passed  pro- 
hibiting Europeans  from  settling  in  the  country.  This 
general  law  cannot  be  reversed  except  by  the  British  par- 
liament. All  Europeans,  therefore,  reside  here  only  by  con- 
nivance. Once  a  year  the  magistrate  of  every  district  has 
orders  to  make  a  return  to  government  of  all  Europeans 
in  his  district,  with  their  employments,  and  to  state  whe- 
ther they  have  executed  covenants  or  not.  Were  a  person 
on  this  occasion  to  return  himself  as  a  missionary,  it  would 
be  putting  government  to  the  proof,  and  obliging  them  to 
come  to  a  point  on  the  subject,  whether  missionaries 
should  be  allowed  to  settle  in  the  country,  or  not ;  and 
there  cannot  be  much  doubt  that  it  would  be  negatived. 
But  when  a  person  returns  his  name  as  a  manufacturer, 
no  suspicion  can  arise,  if  his  conduct  be  good  in  other 
respects.  I  would  not,  however,  have  you  suppose  that 
we  are  obliged  to  conceal  ourselves,  or  our  work.  No  such 
thing.  We  preach  before  magistrates  and  judges,  and 
were  I  to  be  in  the  company  of  Lord  Mornington,  I  should 
not  hesitate  to  declare  myself  a  missionary  to  the  heathen, 
though  I  would  not  on  any  account  return  myself  as  such 
to  the  Governor-General  in  Council." 

It  is  necessary  now  to  revert  to  Mr.  Thomas's  move- 
ments.    It  has  been  already  stated  that  he  was  settled  in 
March,   1794,  at  the  factory  of  Mypaldiggy,  ^.n*** 
thirty  miles   from   Mr.  Carey's  residence   at  mo™OMmto- 
Mudnabatty.      For  three  years  he  continued  to  labour 

o  4 


Digitized  by 


Google 


88  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.       [Chap.  II. 

faith  great  assiduity  in  preaching  to  the  natives  employed 
on  the  establishment,  and  to  itinerate  among  the  villages 
around  him.  But  he  was  as  usual  unsuccessful  in  this 
secular  undertaking;  the  returns  did  not  cover  the  ex- 
pense of  manufacturing  the  indigo,  and,  after  having 
suffered  heavy  losses,  Mr.  Udny  was  obliged  altogether 
to  abandon  the  factory.  In  1797,  Mr.  Thomas  appears 
to  have  removed  to  Calcutta.  After  residing  there  a  few 
months,  he  proceeded  to  Serasing,  at  the  foot  of  the 
Bajmahl  Hills,  with  the  view  of  establishing  a  mission 
among  the  mountain  tribes,  to  whom  Cleveland  had  given 
the  rudiments  of  civilisation  ten  years  before.  This  plan, 
however,  was  relinquished  almost  as  soon  as  it  was 
formed,  and  Mr.  Thomas  then  hired  a  boat,  and  with  his 
wife  and  daughter  proceeded  to  the  neighbourhood  of 
Nuddea,  where  he  obtained  the  lease  of  a  piece  of  ground, 
and  began  to  collect  materials  for  erecting  a  house.  For 
several  months  he  continued  to  live  in  his  boat,  receiving 
the  visits  of  the  natives,  to  whom  he  administered  medi- 
cine and  medical  advice  gratuitously.  In  the  morning 
and  the  evening  he  visited  the  villages,  preaching  to  the 
people  with  his  accustomed  fervency,  and  during  the  day 
he  attended  to  the  multitudes  who  flocked  to  him  from 
the  surrounding  country,  and  regarded  him  as  the  very 
incarnation  of  benevolence.  He  is  next  found  at  the 
French  settlement  of  Chandernagore,  from  whence  he 
writes  to  Mr.  Carey :  "  I  intend  to  go  and  sow  the  good 
seed  from  town  to  town,  and  village  to  village,  making 
Chandernagore  my  head  quarters."  But  this  plan  was 
also  abandoned,  and  in  April,  1799,  he  rented  an  indigo 
factory,  in  the  district  of  Nuddea,  and  sowed  the  land, 
but  a  sudden  rise  of  the  river  swamped  his  plant,  and 
destroyed  his  prospects;  and  he  determined  to  abandon 
all  idea  of  again  touching  indigo,  and  to  turn  his  atten- 
tion to  the  cultivation  of  sugar.  Having  succeeded  in 
raising  funds,  he  established  himself  at  a  place  called 
Etinda,  in  the  district  of  Beerbhoon,  and  took  charge  of  a 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1799.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPOKE  MISSION.  89 

large  sugar  manufactory.  Amidst  these  various  fluctua- 
tions of  plan,  he  was  steady  only  to  one  object  —  the 
preaching  of  the  Gospel  to  the  heathen,  and  he  never 
omitted  an  opportunity  of  addressing  them,  even  though 
he  himself  might  be  the  prey  of  despondency.  His  know- 
ledge of  medicine,  and  his  assiduous  attention  to  the  poor 
and  destitute,  always  secured  him  a  large  and  attentive 
congregation,  and  he  may  justly  be  considered  the  first 
medical  missionary  to  the  heathen. 

Mr.  Carey  had  now  been  labouring  in  the  barren  soil  of 
the  Malda  district  for  five  years  and  a  half.  He  had  tra- 
versed it  in  every  direction,  and  sown  the  Mr  Carey 
"immortal  seed"  of  the  Word  with  untiring  BESTS?"7 
zeal,  but  without  any  corresponding  success.  near,yBlxyea"- 
In  describing  his  own  feelings,  he  says,  "  I  feel  as  a  farmer 
does  about  his  crop;  sometimes  I  think  the  seed  is 
springing  up,  and  then  I  hope ;  a  little  time  blasts  all, 
and  my  hopes  are  gone  like  a  cloud.  They  were  only 
weeds  which  appeared,  or  if  a  little  corn  sprung  up,  it 
quickly  died,  being  either  choked  with  weeds,  or  parched 
up  by  the  sun  of  persecution.  Yet  I  still  hope  in  God, 
and  will  go  forth  in  his  strength,  and  make  mention  of  his 
righteousness,  and  of  his  only.  I  preach  every  day  to  the 
natives,  and  twice  on  the  Lord's  day  constantly,  besides 
other  itinerant  labours."  The  period  of  his  residence  at 
Mudnabatty  was  now  drawing  to  a  close ;  and,  through  a 
train  of  circumstances  highly  providential,  he  was  about 
to  be  removed  to  a  new  sphere  of  labour,  which  presented 
a  more  ample  scope  for  the  development  of  his  talents, 
and  to  be  associated  with  colleagues  of  kindred  energy. 
In  the  month  of  September,  Mr.  Udny  was  constrained 
to  abandon  the  ruinous  factory  of  Mudnabatty,  and  Mr. 
Carey  was  obliged  to  look  out  for  another  residence  and 
occupation.  Just  at  this  time,  he  received  intimation  that 
the  Society  had  accepted  the  services  of  two  candidates  for 
missionary  labour,  and  that  they  were  probably  on  their 
way  to  India,  when  he  received  the  letter.     About  ten 


Digitized  by 


Google 


90 ,  HISTORY  07  THE  SERAMPOBE  MISSION.      [Chap.  U. 

miles  from  Mudnabatty,  there  was  a  small  outlying 
factory,  called  Kidderpore,  and  Mr,  Carey  purchased  it 
of  Mr.  Udny  for  300Z.,  and  removed  to  it  with  his  family, 
with  the  confident  hope  that  it  would  yield  him  the 
means  of  subsistence.  There  he  began  to  erect  straw 
houses  for  his  expected  colleagues,  and  there  he  deter- 
mined to  carry  out  his  design  of  a  Moravian  settlement. 
But  Mr.  Carey  was  one  of  the  last  men  in  India  to  render 
an  indigo  factory  remunerative,  if  indeed  he  was  able  to 
manage  any  secular  concern  to  advantage.  He  had 
invariably  failed  in  every  previous  undertaking  for  more 
than  twenty  years.  He  had  none  of  that  aptitude  for 
business  which  is  indispensable  to  success,  and  if  he  had 
been  left  dependent  on  that  little  factory  for  the  means  of 
subsistence,  he  must  have  been  reduced  to  starvation  in 
the  first  year.  If,  moreover,  the  missionary  labourers 
whom  he  expected,  had  proceeded  to  join  him  in  that 
obscure  and  unhealthy  locality,  the  establishment  would 
speedily  have  been  broken  up.  There  was  also  another 
and  more  formidable  difficulty,  of  which  Mr.  Carey  was 
not  then  aware.  Mr.  Udny  had  been  promoted  to  a 
higher  appointment  in  Calcutta,  and  was  about  to  remove 
from  Malda,  and  the  gentleman  who  had  been  appointed 
to  succeed  him  there  was  as  hostile  to  the  propagation  of 
Christianity  as  Mr.  Udny  had  been  favourable  to  it.  He 
had  gone  so  far  as  to  inquire  of  the  Rev.  Claudius 
Buchanan,  whether  Mr.  Carey  was  not 'liable  to  a  prose- 
cution for  some  letter  of  his  which  had  been  published  in 
England.  He  was  dissuaded  from  this  act  of  malignant 
folly ;  but  he  determined  at  all  events  to  root  out  the  mis- 
sionary enterprise;  and  one  hostile  report  to  Calcutta  would 
have  been  sufficient  to  accomplish  this  purpose.  From 
these  difficulties  which  must  have  proved  fatal  to  the 
Mission,  Mr.  Carey  was  at  once  relieved  by  a  new  and 
unlooked  for  turn  of  circumstances. 

The    covenant  into   which  Mr.   Carey  entered   with 
government  in  1797,  as  an  indigo  planter,  secured  him 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1799.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SBBAMPOBB  MISSION.  91 

from  molestation  for  five  years*  Having  thus  for  the 
first  time,  obtained  a  footing  in  the  country  he  imme- 
diately applied  to  the  Society  for  a  re-inforce-  Baptist  mimioo. 
raent  of  missionary  labourers.  "  This  Mis-  XJ^SSk 
sion,"  he  said,  "should  be  strengthened  as  ,nii,&lla^le,• 
much  as  possible,  as  its  situation  is  such  as  may  put  it 
in  our  power  eventually  to  spread  the  gospel  through  the 
greater  part  of  Asia.  .  .  .  Whether  the  Company 
will  or  will  not  molest  us  must  be  left  to  His  care,  with- 
out whose  permission  a  sparrow  does  not  fall  to  the 
ground ;  but  that  no  human  means  for  our  safety  may  be 
wanting,  I  have  entered  into  covenants  with  the  Company, 
and  have  it  in  my  power  to  engage  in  any  line  of  business. 
Whoever  comes  out  may  be  denominated  an  assistant  to 
Mr.  Thomas  and  myself  on  his  first  arrival;  and  as  we 
are  now  permitted  by  the  Company  to  live  in  the  country, 
and  trade  therein,  we  may  with  boldness  pursue  any  line 
of  conduct  that  may  be  proper."  This  communication, 
which  was  dated  in  January,  1798,  reached  Mr.  Fuller  at 
the  beginning  of  August.  He  fully  participated  in  Mr. 
Carey's  views,  and  was  equally  anxious  to  enlarge  the 
field  of  missionary  labour.  He  therefore  lost  no  time  in 
making  diligent  search  for  missionary  recruits,  and  was 
successful  beyond  his  highest  expectations.  It  must  not 
be  overlooked  that  at  this  early  period  the  missionary 
-  enterprise  presented  none  of  those  attractions  which  are 
now  associated  with  it.  It  was  supposed  to  involve  an 
interruption  of  all  social  and  relative  ties,  and  a  perpetual 
exile  from  all  the  endearing  associations  of  England.  The 
receipt  of  a  communication  from  India  was  an  event  which 
occurred  only  at  long  intervals,  and  a  period  of  eighteen 
months  often  elapsed  between  the  despatch  of  a  letter  and 
the  arrival  of  a  reply.  About  this  time,  Lord  Wellesley 
had  reason  to  lament  that  he  had  been  seven  months  with- 
out any  intelligence  from  England.  Neither  could  the 
missionary,  as  at  the  present  time,  look  for  encourage- 
ment and  support  from  large  and  influential  associations, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


92  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.       [Ciiaf.  II. 

who  watched  his  progress  with  feelings  of  deep  sympathy ; 
and  it  required  a  spirit  of  the  strongest  Christian  faith 
and  devotion  to  face  the  difficulties  of  this  dreary  and 
formidable  enterprise.  The  first  candidate  for  missionary 
work  was  Mr.  Brunsdon,  a  member  of  the  Baptist  Church 
in  Bristol,  under  the  pastoral  care  of  Dr.  Ryland.  He 
was  accepted  by  the  Society,  and  then  placed  under  the 
tuition  of  Mr.  Sutcliff,  of  Olney.  Three  months  after,  Mr. 
Ward,  then  residing  at  Hull,  was  introduced  to  a  member 
of  the  committee,  who  happened  to  be  on  a  visit  to  a 
friend  there,  and  was  induced  to  place  himself  in  commu- 
nication with  Mr.  Fuller,  which  led  to  an  immediate 
engagement  with  the  Society.  In  March,  1799,  Mr. 
Grant,  also  a  member  of  Dr.  Ryland's  church  in  Bristol, 
expressed  a  strong  desire  to  engage  in  the  Mission.  He 
had  imbibed  those  infidel  principles  which  Paine  had  been 
diligent  in  disseminating,  but  was  led  to  the  adoption  of 
Gospel  truth  by  an  accidental  interview  with  Mr.  Marsh- 
man,  which  ripened  into  friendship,  and  resulted  in  his 
conversion,  and  led  to  his  embarking  for  India  in  the 
service  of  the  Mission.  After  arrangements  for  the  em- 
barkation of  these  three  missionaries  had  been  completed, 
Mr.  Marshman  himself  was  induced,  in  some  measure  by 
the  example  of  his  friend  Mr.  Grant,  to  offer  his  services 
to  the  Society,  and,  though  unknown  to  any  of  its  leading 
members,  with  the  exception  of  Dr.  Ryland,  was  at  once 
accepted.  It  was  owing  to  Mr.  Fuller's  indomitable 
energy,  that  within  nine  months  after  the  receipt  of  Mr. 
Carey's  letter,  announcing  that  missionaries  might  be 
introduced  into  Bengal  as  assistants  in  his  indigo  factory, 
without  the  hazardous  avowal  of  their  object 

Four  miisloD-  i  /•  ... 

^ta?k!paret0  t0  government,  that  four  missionaries  were 
sailing  down  the  channel  on  their  way  to 
Mudnabatty.  Mr.  Grant  and  Mr.  Brunsdon  were  men 
of  great  zeal  and  much  promise,  but  as  they  were  cut  off 
in  the  dawn  of  their  career,  this  brief  notice  of  their 
devotion  to  the  cause  may  be  sufficient.     Mr.  Ward  and 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1799.]  HISTOEY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  93 

Mr.  Marshman,  who  survived  them,  were  associated  with 
Mr.  Carey  soon  after  their  arrival  in  India,  in  the  esta- 
blishment of  the  Sbrampobe  Mission,  of  which  the  present 
work  is  intended  to  be  a  record. 

William  Ward  was  born  at  Derby  on  the  20th  of 
October,  1769,  and  was  the  son  of  John  Ward,  carpenter 
and  builder.  His  father  died  when  he  was  a  NotlcwofMr 
child,  and  the  charge  of  his  education  devolved  «&rio^r^J!r 
on  his  mother,  a  woman  of  superior  parts  and  begU>*' 
exemplary  piety,  an  attendant  on  the  ministry  of  the 
Methodists.  It  was  to  her  affectionate  solicitude  and 
instructions  that  he  was  indebted  for  those  religious  im- 
pressions which  preserved  him  from  the  usual  dangers  of 
youth,  and  served  to  mould  his  character  for  future  emi- 
nence. He  was  placed  under  the  tuition,  first,  of  Mr. 
Congreve,  and  then  of  Mr.  Breary,  of  Derby,  and  became 
proficient  in  the  ordinary  branches  of  school  education ; 
for  the  mental  accomplishments  which  adorned  his  sub- 
sequent career  he  was  indebted  to  his  own  unaided  and 
indefatigable  exertions.  He  was  distinguished  in  child- 
hood for  sobriety  and  thoughtfulness.  The  time  given  by 
his  playmates  to  recreation  he  devoted  to  reading,  and  he 
always  appeared  to  have  some  intellectual  pursuit  in  hand, 
which  the  friends  of  his  family,  as  usual,  considered  a 
promise  of  future  distinction.  On  leaving  school,  he  was 
placed  as  an  apprentice  with  Mr.  Drury,  who  was  at  the 
head  of  a  large  printing  establishment  in  the  town.  Mr. 
Ward  soon  rose  to  the  grade  of  corrector  of  the  press, 
which  gave  him  an  opportunity  of  storing  his  mind  with 
various  and  useful  knowledge.  He  was  endowed  by 
nature  with  a  lively  imagination  and  a  pregnant  wit;  and 
by  means  of  incessant  reading  and  attempts  at  composi- 
tion, gradually  acquired  great  fluency  and  command  of 
language.  For  these  qualifications  he  soon  found  ample 
scope  in  the  charge  which  he  undertook  at  the  close  of  his 
apprenticeship,  of  editing  the  "  Derby  Mercury  "  on  behalf 
of  his  master.     In  the  management  of  this  journal,  he  ex- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


94  HISTORY  OF  THE  8ERAMP0KE  MISSION.       [Chap.  II. 

hibited  such  industry  and  talent,  and  gave  it  such  popu- 
larity by  the  elegance  of  his  pen,  that  he  soon  raised  the 
circulation  to  fifteen  hundred ;  and  it  became  one  of  the 
most  influential  papers  in  the  county,  Mr.  Ward,  in  the 
enthusiasm  of  youth,  had  imbibed  that  democratic  feel- 
ing which  the  novelty  of  the  French  revolution,  and  the 
brilliant  prospects  of  improvement  with  which  it  opened, 
had!  inspired  in  so  many  benevolent  minds  in  England. 
.  He  was  led  to  join  a  political  society  in  Derby,  affiliated 
with  the  Parent  Society  in  London,  which  Mr,  Pitt  was 
making  the  strongest  effort  to  extinguish.  For  this  associa- 
tion he  drew  up  a  series  of  rules,  in  which  the  defects  of 
our  own  political  institutions  were  exhibited  with  such 
vigour  of  language  and  bitterness  of  spirit,  that  they 
attracted  the  attention  of  the  ministers  of  the  crown,  who 
ordered  a  prosecution  to  be  commenced  against  one  of  the 
London  journals  in  which  they  had  appeared.  The  case 
was  ably  and  successfully  defended  by  Mr.,  afterwards 
Lord  Erskine.  Soon  after  Mr.  Ward  composed  a  political 
address,  adapted  to  the  revolutionary  sympathies  of  the 
day,  which  was  distinguished  by  the  same  talent  and  ex- 
hibited the  same  republican  acerbity  of  feeling.  It  was 
honoured  with  a  similar  prosecution,  and  defended  with 
equal  success  by  the  same  forensic  ability.  After  the 
verdict  of  acquittal  had  been  delivered,  Mr.  Erskine,  who 
was  ignorant  of  the  name  of  the  author,  stated  that  the 
paper  was  generally,  and,  he  thought  justly,  attributed  to 
the  accomplished  pen  of  Dr.  Darwin,  then  residing  at 
Derby.  At  a  subsequent  period,  Mr.  Ward,  without  the 
consent  of  the  church,  admitted  Thelwall,  the  well-known 
democratic  orator,  into  the  Baptist  meeting-house,  to  deli- 
ver a  political  lecture.  The  result  was  disastrous ;  the 
windows  were  broken  by  a  mob ;  the  lecturer  and  his 
audience  were  expelled  with  violence ;  and  great  odium 
was  brought  on  the  character  of  the  denomination  in-  the 
town. 
After  having  thus  written  up  the  "Derby  Mercury," 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1799.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  95 

and  secured  for  it  an  unexampled  share  of  patronage,  Mr. 
Ward  was  induced  to  remove  to  Stafford,  where  he  com- 
menced another  journal  in  connection  with  a  Heediuthe 
member  of  Mr.  Drury's  family.  He  subsequently  ^'mRSw 
proceeded  to  Hull  to  undertake  the  editorial  iounuU* 
management  of  the  "  Hull  Advertiser."  Six  years  of  the 
most  important  period  of  his  life  were  thus  passed  in 
the  active  and  animating  duties  of  an  editor,  and  he 
thus  acquired  an  enlarged  view  of  men  and  things,  great 
facility  of  composition,  and  valuable  habits  of  business, 
which  proved  of  the  highest  advantage  in  his  subsequent 
career  at  Serampore.  Though,  as  a  public  writer,  he  had 
adopted  at  the  time  sentiments  which,  on  more  mature  re- 
flection, he  was  led  to  repudiate,  he  never  prostituted  his 
powers  to  the  encouragement  of  political  licentiousness. 
The  journals  he  successively  edited  were  distinguished  by  a 
high  moral  tone,  to  which,  indeed,  they  were  indebted  for 
no  small  share  of  their  success.  The  period  of  his  edi- 
torial labours  was  contemporary  with  those  noble  efforts 
of  Glarkson  and  his  associates  to  organise  public  opinion 
against  the  iniquities  of  the  slave-trade,  which  have  at 
length  resulted  in  the  high  and  honourable  distinction 
that  slavery  can  never  again  exist  in  conjunction  with  the 
British  flag.  In  the  journey  which  Clarkson  undertook 
through  England,  he  called  on  Mr.  Ward,  at  Derby, 
to  enlist  his  journal  in  the  cause  of  humanity.  After 
that  interview,  Mr.  Ward  became  one  of  the  most  earnest 
advocates  of  abolition,  and  improved  every  opportunity  to 
hold  up  the  atrocities  of  the  trade  to  public  detestation. 
Clarkson  states  in  his  history  of  the  abolition,  that  "  the 
people  of  England  could  not  bear  the  facts  which  had 
been  disclosed  to  them  by  the  abridgment  of  the  evi- 
dence." This  fact  was  fully  exemplified  in  the  experience 
of  Mr.  Ward,  who  published  extracts  from  the  evidence, 
week  after  week,  accompanied  by  his  own  remarks,  till 
a  large  number  of  his  subscribers  informed  him  that 
they  could  no  longer  endure  this  weekly  exhibition  of 


Digitized  by 


Google 


96  HISTORY  OF  THE  SEBAMPOBB  MISSION.      [Chap.  II* 

horrors,  and  must  give  up  the  journal  unless  he  discon- 
tinued it. 

His  connection  with  the  periodical  press  was  now  drawing 
towards  a  close.  In  August,  1796,  he  was  baptized  at 
Enter,  on  mini*.  Hull  by  Mr.  Pendered,  and  began  to  devote  his 
tedaipur.uiu.  leisure  to  the  instruction  of  the  poor  in  the 
neighbouring  hamlets.  These  labours  introduced  him  to 
the  acquaintance  of  Mr.  Fish  wick,  of  Newcastle-upon-Tyne, 
who  is  described  as  a  man  of  good  fortune,  and  great 
benevolence.  He  was  charmed  with  Mr.  Ward's  warm 
and  eloquent  addresses,  delivered  often  on  a  three-legged 
stool  to  his  rustic  congregation,  and  was  anxious  that 
these  ministerial  talents  should  not  remain  buried  in 
obscurity*  He  accordingly  placed  Mr.  Ward,  at  his  own 
expense,  under  the  tuition  of  the  Rev.  Dr.  Fawcett,  the 
well  known  author  of  the  "  Treatise  on  Anger,"  and  the 
tutor  of  Foster,  the  celebrated  essayist.  Mr.  Ward  re- 
moved to  Ewood  Hall,  the  residence  of  Mr.  Fawcett,  in 
August,  1797.  After  that  time,  he  renounced  all  interest 
in  politics  and  journalism,  and  gave  his  heart  and  soul  to 
the  nobler  vocation  of  communicating  Divine  truth  to  his 
fellow-countrymen.  So  complete  was  his  severance  from 
all  political  associations  from  this  time  forward,  that  he, 
who  had  successively  conducted  three  journals,  and  passed 
six  years  in  the  keenest  editorial  excitement,  did  not  so 
much  as  take  in  a  newspaper  till  after  he  had  been  ten 
years  resident  at  Serampore.  Even  then,  he  was  un- 
willing to  burden  the  funds  of  the  Mission  with  the  cost 
of  one,  but  made  an  arrangement  to  receive  a  copy  of  the 
"  Morning  Post,"  a  weekly  journal  published  in  Calcutta, 
in  return  for  his  own  poetical  contributions.  His  feelings 
on  exchanging  politics  for  the  Christian  ministry  are  thus 
described  by  him.  "  I  thought  I  had  been  fixed  at  Hull. 
I  had  a  pleasant  lodging  facing  the  Humber,  refreshed  by 
its  gales,  inviting  me  to  its  banks,  gratifying  me  by  its 
passing  current,  and  its  stately  barks.  I  was  occupied  in 
$  situation  in  which  I  often  indulged  my  pen  and  my 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1799.]  HISTORY  OF  THE   SERAMPOEB  MISSION.  97 

fancy  to  the  satisfaction  of  my  employers.  I  was  sur- 
rounded by  friends,  on  whose  smiles  I  sometimes  im- 
prudently fed.  My  mind  was  calm,  and  I  had  some 
leisure  for  my  friend  and  my  books.  Sometimes  I  walked 
with  Eugenio  to  the  country-house  of  a  friend ;  and  we 
cheered  the  hours  of  darkness  with  the  tale  of  friendship. 
Sometimes  I  called  on  him  for  the  evening  walk ;  at  other 
times  we  exchanged  the  friendly  epistle ;  and,  sometimes, 
I  went  into  the  villages,  to  gladden  the  hearts  of  my  fellow 
men  with  good  tidings  of  great  joy.  In  the  midst  of  these 
employments  and  pleasures,  I  received  an  invitation  to  go 
to  Ewood  Hall, — to  leave  Hull,  perhaps  for  ever!  Con- 
science commands  me  to  go ;  to  enter  on  a  new  line  of 
life;  to  combat  difficulties  and  prejudices;  to  be  subject 
to  the  cavils  of  the  bigot,  and  the  frowns  of  the  dissipated; 
to  incur  the  displeasure  of  the  mermaids  of  professors, 
half  sinners,  half  saints ;  to  live,  perhaps,  on  thirty  pounds 
a  year;  to  warn  men,  night  and  day,  with  tears;  to 
tremble,  lest  I  myself  should  prove  a  castaway." 

After  Mr.  Ward  had  been  about  twelve  months  under 
the  tuition  of  Dr.  Fawcett,  a  member  of  the  Baptist 
Missionary  Committee  visited  the  educational 
establishment  of  Ewood  Hall  in  search  of  mis-  ditLStunkSTif 
sionary  labourers  to  meet  Mr.  Carey  s  pressing 
request  for  additional  aid.  He  conversed  repeatedly  with 
Mr.  Ward  on  the  subject  of  missions,  and  found  him  a 
willing  listener.  About  five  years  before  this  time,  Mr. 
Carey  had  been  introduced  to  Mr.  Ward,  on  the  eve  of  his 
departure  for  India,  and  remarked,  that  if  their  labours 
were  blessed  with  success,  they  should  need  an  individual 
of  his  calling  to  enable  them  to  print  the  Scriptures,  and 
hoped  he  would  consent  to  follow  them.  The  remark  was 
forgotten  at  the  time;  but  was  vividly  recalled  to  Mr. 
Ward's  recollection  as  he  listened  to  the  narrative  of 
Mr.  Carey's  labours  and  the  progress  of  the  mission,  and 
the  completion  of  the  New  Testament  in  the  Bengalee 
language.     His  missionary  feelings,  which  had  long  been 

VOL.  I.  H 


Digitized  by 


Google 


98  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPOBE  MISSION.       [Chap.  II. 

dormant,  were  now  revived ;  "  while  he  was  musing,  the 
fire  burned ; "  and  he  determined  to  offer  his  services  as  a 
missionary  to  the  society  without  delay,  in  the  hope  of 
being  employed  in  printing  the  Scriptures.     He  addressed 
Mr.  Fuller  on  the  subject,  and  was  invited  to  preach  the 
next  anniversary  missionary  sermon  at  Kettering.     The 
visit  resulted  in  his  being  accepted  by  the  society.     Soon 
after,  he  wrote  to  Mr.  Carey,  "  I  know  not  whether  you 
oArshfmwiru  will  be  able  to  remember  a  young  man,  a 
amusionarr.      pyfo^  walking  with  you  from  Rippon's  chapel 
one  Lord's-day,  and  conversing  with  you  on  your  journey 
to  India.     But  that  person  is  coming  to  see  you,  and  that 
person  is  the  writer  of  this  letter.     His  services  were 
accepted  by  the  society  on  the  16th  instant     It  was  a 
happy  meeting.      The  missionary  spirit  was  all  alive. 
Brother  Pearce  set  the  whole  chapel  in  flame,  and  had 
missionaries  been  wanted,  I  should  suppose  we  might  have 
had  a  cargo  immediately.    Some  time  in  the  spring,  I  hope 
to  embark  with  others.  ...  It  is  in  my  heart  to  live  and 
die  with  you,  to  spend  and  be  spent  with  you.     I  trust  I 
shall  have  your  prayers  that  I  may  have  a  safe  journey 
to  you,  and  may  be  refreshed  by  your  presence ;  and  that 
God  may  make  me  faithful  unto  death,  and  give  me  pa- 
tience, fortitude,  zeal,  and  vital  godliness  enough  for  the 
great  work."     The  next  six  months  were  passed  in  culti- 
vating the  acquaintance  of  the  members  of  the  committee, 
and  laying  the  foundation  of  that  affectionate  and  confi- 
dential intercourse  with  Mr.  Fuller,  which  contributed  so 
greatly  to  the  success  of  the  Serarapore  mission.     Mr. 
Ward  passed  three  months  at  Birmingham,  supplying 
Mr.  Pearce's  pulpit.     There  was  a  congeniality  of  feeling 
and  a  unison  of  thought  between  these  two  distinguished 
individuals,  which  strengthened  their  mutual  attachment. 
Few  men  have  ever  laboured  in  the  Christian  ministry 
with  a  more  heavenly-minded  devotion  to  the  cause  than 
Mr.  Pearce.     His  character  is  exemplified  in  one  of  his 
own  fervent  exclamations :— "  01  to  be  a  Mercury,  for  ever 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1799.]  HISTORY  OF  THE   SERAMPORB  MISSION.  99 

rolling  round  and  near  the  sun!"  Mr.  Ward  thus  describes 
his  friend: — "  Instead  of  being  all  froth  and  fume,  you  see 
in  him  a  mind  wholly  given  up  to  God ;  a  sacred  lustre 
shines  in  his  whole  conversation,  always  tranquil,  always 
cheerful,  always  bearing  about  this  truth,  *  It  is  my  meat 
and  my  drink  to  do  the  will  of  my  heavenly  Father.' " 
After  alluding  to  his  extraordinary  exertions,  Mr.  Ward 
exclaims,  "Here  are  the  expandings  of  the  soul  of  a  Pearce! 
Great  God,  let  us  have  a  shower  of  them,  that  the  earth 
may  be  filled  with  the  knowledge  of  the  Lord,  as  the  waters 
cover  the  sea."  In  these  indefatigable  exertions,  Mr. 
Pearce  wore  out  his  constitution  in  the  course  of  ten  years. 
He  was  at  this  time  labouring  under  the  disease  which,  a 
few  months  after,  laid  him  in  the  grave,  and  deprived  the 
missionary  cause  of  a  labourer  second  only  to  Mr.  Fuller 
in  ability,  energy,  and  zeal. 

Joshua  Marshman  was  born  at  Westbury  Leigh,  in 
Wiltshire,  on  the  20th  of  April,  1768.  His  family  traced 
its  descent  from  an  officer  in  the  parliamentary 
army,  who  retired  into  private  life  in  Wiltshire,  sy^£^*r- 
after  Charles  II.  disbanded  that  body  in  1660. 
Like  his  comrades,  when  deprived  of  all  further  hope  of 
public  employment,  he  betpok  himself  to  a  useful  trade ; 
and  his  grandson,  as  a  smith,  realised  what  was  then  con- 
sidered a  little  fortune,  which  he  bequeathed  to  his  only 
son  at  his  death  in  1720.  This  independence  enabled 
him  to  indulge  in  idle  and  dissipated  habits,  and  ensured 
his  ruin.  His  wife  was  a  woman  of  strong  character,  and 
had  received  a  superior  education.  When  abandoned  by 
her  husband,  and  reduced  to  destitution,  she  determined 
to  support  her  family  by  her  own  labour,  and  at  the  same 
time  apprenticed  her  son,  John  Marshman,  the  father  of 
the  Serampore  missionary,  to  a  weaver,  at  the  age  of 
twelve.  But  he  was  treated  with  such  severity  by  his 
master,  that  at  the  end  of  three  years  he  escaped  to 
London,  where,  after  suffering  many  hardships,  he  at  length 
entered  as  a  seaman  on  the  "  Viper,"  and  then  on  the 

H  2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


100  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.       [Chap.  II. 

"  Hind,"  sloops  of  war.  The  "  Hind"  was  sent  to  Canada, 
and  he  had  thus  an  opportunity  of  being  present  at  the 
capture  of  Quebec.  After  having  been  four  years  at  sea, 
he  obtained  his  discharge,  and  returning  to  Wiltshire, 
settled  at  Dilton's  Marsh,  as  a  weaver  of  superfine  woollen 
cloth,  then  the  staple  manufacture  in  that  district.  From 
the  Marsh  he  subsequently  removed  to  Westbury  Leigh, 
and  became  a  member  and  deacon  of  the  Baptist  Church, 
which  had  been  established  there  seven  years  after  the  Act 
of  Uniformity  had  created  dissent.  In  1764,  Mr.  John 
Marshman  married  Mary  Couzener,  a  descendant  of  one  of 
the  French  refugees  who  obtained  shelter  in  England  on 
the  revocation  of  the  Edict  of  Nantes.  She  was  a  woman 
of  great  piety  and  exemplary  benevolence ;  and  she  and 
her  husband  lived  together  in  a  state  of  the  highest  con- 
jugal happiness,  and  in  the  practice  of  Christian  virtue, 
for  more  than  half  a  century.  It  was  in  these  favour- 
able religious  associations  that  Joshua  Marshman  was 
trained  up. 

At  the  age  of  seven  he  was  sent  to  the  little  village 
school  kept  by  one  Coggeshall,  and  he  remained  there 
Mr  Marsfcmao*t  *^  he  had  exhausted  its  resources,  though  he 
"-* educltton-  left  it  with  a  bare  knowledge  of  reading.  This 
was  all  the  instruction  he  ever  received  from  the  agency 
of  others.  There  was  no  seminary  in  the  neighbourhood 
in  which  writing  was  taught,  <n»  even  the  simple  elements  of 
arithmetic.  At  the  age  of  seven,  as  he  has  recorded,  his 
father  happened  to  repeat  to  him  the  narrative  of  David 
and  Goliath,  which  riveted  his  attention,  and  appears  to 
have  created  the  first  desire  of  reading  in  his  mind,  and 
he  gave  himself  no  rest  until  he  had  read  through  all  the 
historical  portions  of  the  Old  Testament.  He  was  not 
then  aware  that  there  existed  similar  chronicles  of  the 
kings  of  England,  but  at  the  town  fair  which*  was  held 
HUMtonbbing    80on  after,  he  met  with  a  brief  history  of  Eng- 

thimforrerfing.    J^    ^    ^^    ft    ^^^    ^fore     fae    feft   the 

stall.     His  thirst  for  reading  rapidly  increased,  and  as  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1799.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SBBAMPORE  MISSION*  101 

single  shelf  in  his  father's  cottage  contained  little  beyond 
the  works  of  some  of  the  old  Puritan  divines,  his  son 
made  the  most  diligent  search  among  the  little  stores  of 
his  neighbours  in  and  around  his  village.  He  thought 
little  of  walking  a  dozen  miles  for  the  loan  of  a  book. 
By  the  time  he  was  twelve  years  of  age,  he  had  thus  read 
through  more  than  a  hundred  volumes.  On  one  occasion, 
calling  upon  the  vicar  of  the  parish  to  borrow  a  book  on 
which  he  had  long  had  his  eye,  he  was  asked  who  was,  in 
his  opinion,  the  best  preacher,  the  incumbent  or  the  dis- 
senting minister  ?  Young  Marshman,  who  preferred  his 
own  pastor,  and  was  at  the  same  time  anxious  not  to  lose 
the  book,  said  the  best  reply  he  could  give  was  to  refer  him 
to  the  remark  made  by  the  Scottish  Ambassador  when 
Queen  Elizabeth  inquired  whom  he  thought  the  most 
beautiful,  herself  or  the  Queen  of  Scots.  The  appetite 
for  reading  grew  by  what  it  fed  on,  and  it  soon  became 
insatiable.  A  few  days  before  his  death  at  Serampore, 
he  diverted  himself,  by  noting  down  from  memory,  the 
books  he  had  read  before  he  was  fifteen,  as  well  as  the 
names  of  the  friends  from  whom  he  had  borrowed  them. 
A  slight  glance  at  the  first  twenty-five  on  the  list  will 
show  the  astonishing  activity  of  his  mind,  and  the  very 
miscellaneous  and  ill-assorted  knowledge  with  which  it 
was  stocked  : — "  Borrowed  of  a  neighbour,  Baker  Ingram, 
in  1777,  the  4  Fables  of  Pilpay;'  'Voltaire's  Candidus;' 
*  Travels  of  a  Philosopher  in  Cochin  China ; '  *  Robin 
Hood's  Garland.7  Of  the  Rev.  Robert  Marshman, 
'Josephus/  in  twenty  quarto  numbers;  'Salmon's  Geo- 
graphy;' the  *  Chinese  Traveller,'  (Duhalde,  abridged); 
a  work  on  '  Astronomy/  Of  Mr.  P.  Phipps,  Westbury 
Leigh,  the  4  Wonders  of  Nature  and  Art ; '  the  c  Natural 
History  of  Serpents ; '  the  various  *  Revolutions  in  the 
World ; '  the  4  Survey  of  England,'  in  six  volumes ;  the 
4  Conversations  of  Eusebius.' *  Of  Mr.  William  Cliff, 
c  Neal's  History  of  the  Puritans  ; '  *  History  of  England,' 
in  letters.    Of  John  Hill,  the  c  Present  State  of  England 

h3 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


102  HISTORY  OF  THE  8ERAMPORB  MISSION.      [Chap.  II. 

in  the  time  of  Charles  the  Second ;'  ^udibras.'  Of 
Benjamin  Roberts,  the  *  New  History  of  Troy's  Destruc- 
tion ; '  *  Cynthia/  a  novel  of  the  old  Saxon  time  ;  *  His- 
torical Remarks  on  the  City  of  London ; ' 4  Don  Quixote ; ' 
4  Robinson  Crusoe ; '  *  Milton's  Paradise  Lost ; '  *  Collyer's 
History  of  England;'  and  '  Tooke's  Pantheon.'"  The 
number  of  works  he  had  thus  devoured  before  he  was 
eighteen,  amounted  to  more  than  five  hundred.  Nothing 
could  be  more  disadvantageous  than  this  desultory  course 
of  reading,  except  the  total  absence  of  all  mental  culture  ; 
but  it  arose  from  the  necessity  of  reading  a  book  through 
without  reference  to  the  subject,  before  he  could  hope  to 
obtain  the  loan  of  another.  But  the  injury  which  this 
course  was  calculated  to  inflict  was  in  a  great  measure  cor- 
rected by  his  astonishing  and  almost  miraculous  memory, 
which  enabled  him  at  any  time  to  call  up  at  will  the  facts 
connected  with  any  series  of  events  which  had  been  once 
lodged  in  his  mind,  and  thus  turn  to  account  every 
successive  addition  of  information  he  might  acquire. 

When  Mr.  Marshman  had  attained  the  age  of  fifteen, 
Mr.  Cator,  a  bookseller  in  Holborn,  and  a  native  of  .West- 
Empioyedtn  bury  Leigh,  visited  the  village,  and  hearing  of 
jgttS^  a  youth  who  had  read  everything,  conversed 
repeatedly  with  him,  and  was  so  much  gratified 
with  his  intelligent  remarks,  that  he  proposed  to  receive 
him  into  his  shop,  with  the  view  of  providing  for  him  in 
his  own  trade.  The  prospect  of  being  placed  in  a  book- 
seller's shop,  and  revelling  among  the  stores  of  know- 
ledge it  must  contain,  filled  his  mind  with  delight,  and  the 
offer  was  cordially  accepted.  He  started  for  the  metro- 
polis in  a  waggon,  and  reached  it  in  three  days.  He  had 
never  been  previously  separated  from  his  parents,  and  his 
removal  to  London  among  strangers  produced  at  first 
much  depression  of  feeling ;  but  he  soon  became  reconciled 
to  a  place  in  which,  to  use  his  own  expression,  he  was  let 
loose  among  thousands  of  volumes,  none  of  which  he 
was  debarred  from  reading.     He  found,  however,  that  his 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1799]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SEBAMPOBE  MISSION.  103 

leisure  was  more  limited  than  at  Westbury  Leigh.  He 
was  expected  to  devote  several  hours  in  the  day  to  the 
duties  of  the  shop ;  but  he  never  took  a  book  in  his  hand 
without  reading  the  title-page,  which  remained  thenceforth 
imprinted  on  his  memory.  This  circumstance  attracted 
attention,  and  was  soon  noised  abroad,  as  Mr.  Cator  was 
proud  of  the  little  prodigy  he  had  brought  up  from  Wilt- 
shire; and  a  neighbouring  bookseller  came  in  one  day, 
and  asked  to  see  the  lad  who  could  repeat  the  name  of 
every  book  in  the  shop.  Mr.  Marshman  assured  him  that 
the  report  was  not  correct,  though  if  any  book  were  named 
he  could  tell  with  tolerable  certainty  whether  it  was  to  be 
found  there.  When  others  retired  to  rest,  he  applied  to 
reading,  and  more  than  once  fell  asleep  with  a  book  in  his 
hand,  and  the  light  burning,  and  thus  endangered  the 
building,  to  the  great  annoyance  of  the  inmates  of  the 
house.  As  he  had  little  time  for  reading  in  the  shop,  and 
was  daily  sent  out  with  books  to  the  residence  of  cus- 
tomers, he  often  read  them  as  he  walked  the  streets,  and 
frequently  found  the  book  tossed  into  his  face  by  some 
rude  passenger.  The  labour  of  trudging  through  the 
streets  several  hours  during  the  day  became  at  length 
disheartening ;  and  having  once  been  sent  to  the  Duke  of 
Grafton's  residence  with  three  folio  volumes  of  "  Claren- 
don's History  of  the  Rebellion,"  his  mind  began  to  give  way 
to  melancholy,  and,  as  he  passed  by  Westminster  Hall,  he 
laid  down  his  load,  and  sobbed  to  think  that  there  was  no 
higher  prospect  before  him  than  that  of  a  bookseller's 
porter ;  but,  on  looking  around  the  building,  and  calling 
up  to  mind  the  interesting  associations  connected  with  it, 
he  brushed  away  his  tears,  replaced  the  load  on  his 
shoulders,  and  walked  on  with  a  light  heart,  determined 
to  bide  his  time.  The  exercise  he  was  thus  daily  con- 
strained to  take  had  the  effect  of  strengthening  his  con- 
stitution, which  was  naturally  feeble ;  at  the  same  time 
these  peregrinations  often  served  to  give  an  agreeable  turn 
to  his  thoughts  as  he  recurred  to  the  historical  recollections 

H    4 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


104  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  H. 

connected  with  the  streets.  But,  at  the  end  of  five  months, 
his  father,  under  the  impression  that  he  was  unhappy  in 
Return!  to  Wert.  London,  or  being  himself  unhappy,  recalled  him 
**"  ^^  to  Westbury  Leigh.  There  he  resumed  his 
labours  at  the  loom,  and  plunged  again  into  his  old  course 
of  desultory  and  immoderate  reading,  devouring  every  work 
of  fiction  or  poetry,  history,  geography,  or  travels,  to 
which  he  could  obtain  access. 

The  history  of  his  life  for  the  next  ten  years  is  mo- 
notonous. He  had  been  brought  up  with  the  firm  con- 
viction, engrafted  in  his  mind  by  farmer  Bachelor  and 
his  own  father,  the  pillars  of  the  Baptist  church  at 
Westbury  lyeigh,  that  it  was  the  duty  of  a  Christian 
with  humble  content  to  await  the  leadings  of  Provi- 
dence, and  that  it  was  a  sin  to  make  any  effort  which 
might  wear  the  appearance  of  anticipating  them;  nor 
was  he  able  fully  to  shake  off  this  hereditary  impres- 
sion till  he  was  placed  in  a  new  sphere  at  Serampore, 
where  everything  had  to  be  created.  He  continued,  there- 
fore) to  labour  as  a  weaver,  and  to  live  in  humble  asso- 
ciation with  the  honest,  rustic,  God-fearing  members  of 
the  church,  though  with  a  mind  and  attainments  immea- 
surably beyond  them.  He  had  been  trained  up  under 
the  eye  of  pious  parents,  and  with  the  strictest  attention 
to  the  duties  of  religion  and  morality.  He  had  never 
fallen  into  any  of  the  vices  common  to  youth ;  he  was 
exemplary  in  his  conduct  and  conversation,  and  could 
reproach  himself  with  nothing  more  heinous  than  a  par- 
tiality for  Fielding's  and  Smollet's  novels.  But  he  felt 
that  he  was  not  justified  in  considering  himself  a  con- 
verted person.  He  has  left  on  record  that  he  had  been 
led  to  consider  conversion  to  consist  in  some  fearful  exer- 
cises of  mind  which  a  man  must  undergo,  for  a  longer  or 
shorter  period,  before  he  could  comfort  himself  with  the 
assurance  of  being  in  a  state  of  safety.  Reflections  such 
as  these  led  to  a  more  careful  examination  of  the  Scrip- 
tures.    Gradually,  as  he  described  it,  the  light  of  divine 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1799.]  HISTORY  OF  THE   SERAMPORE  MISSION.  105 

truth  shone  into  his  mind,  and  he  was  enabled  to  place 
his  entire  dependence  for  acceptance  with  God,  and  his 
hope  of  eternal  salvation,  on  the  all  meritorious  atone- 
ment of  Christ.  This  improvement  in  his  religious  views 
was  more  particularly  evinced  by  the  new  course  of  read- 
ing on  which  he  was  induced  to  enter.  He  gave  several 
months  to  the  study  of  "  Luther  on  the  Galatians ; "  he  read 
with  his  usual  avidity  a  whole  library  of  divinity,  polemical 
and  devotional,  Episcopal  and  Puritan.  But  the  works  in 
which  he  took  special  delight  were  those  of  the  Puritan 
divines  of  the  seventeenth  century ;  and  there  was  scarcely 
a  treatise  of  that  period  of  any  note,  with  the  arguments 
and  sentiments  of  which  he  did  not  become  perfectly 
familiar.  This  incessant  study  of  those  divines  gave  a 
peculiar  bias  to  his  habits  of  thought,  and  even  to  his 
style  of  composition,  which  was  not  advantageous  in  his 
subsequent  career.  Still,  however,  he  was  unable  to  come 
up  to  the  high  standard  of  the  church  at  Westbury  Leigh, 
which'  consisted  of  about  a  hundred  members,  imbued 
for  the  most  part  with  those  rigid  and  unbending  views 
which  appeared  to  have  descended  to  them  as  an  heirloom 
from  their  Puritan  founders.  The  four  deacons  Hii  reiigioa» 
held  weekly  meetings,  and  vigilantly  watched  expcrlence- 
over  the  discipline  and  purity  of  the  body.  They  main- 
tained that  as  a  work  of  grace,  once  begun  in  the  heart, 
could  never  become  extinct,  it  was  more  advisable  to 
postpone  the  admission  to  church  fellowship  even  of  those 
who  might  appear  to  be  sincere,  than  to  admit  one  un- 
converted person  into  the  fold.  They  regarded  human 
learning  in  a  pastor  with  feelings  of  suspicion,  and  en- 
tertained the  strongest  aversion  to  those  whom  they 
termed  " men-made"  ministers.  To  these  views  they 
adhered  perhaps  the  more  tenaciously  as  they  found  them- 
selves exposed  to  the  censure  of  other  churches.  The 
Bristol  Academy  was  the  training-school  of  the  Baptist 
churches  in  the  West  of  England,  and  presented  the 
nearest  object  of  mistrust  to  the  members  at  Westbury 


Digitized  by 


Google 


106  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORB  MISSION.      [Chap.  H. 

Leigh.  Though  they  had  been  charmed  with  the  eloquence 
of  Robert  Hall,  when  he  preached  at  their  meeting-house, 
they  could  never  bring  themselves  to  regard  this  seat  of 
human  learning  with  any  degree  of  complacency;  and 
they  scorned,  as  they  said,  uto  go  down  to  Egypt  for 
help."  When  Mr.  Marshman  sought  admission  into  the 
church,  farmer  Bachelor  and  the  other  deacons  remarked 
that  he  had  too  much  "head  knowledge"  of  Christianity 
to  have  much  "heart  knowledge"  of  its  truths.  They 
kept  him,  therefore,  in  a  state  of  probation  for  seven 
years,  and  he  eventually  left  Westbury  Leigh  without 
having  been  baptized. 

In  the  year  1791  he  was  married  to  Hannah  Shepherd, 
the  grand-daughter  of  the  Rev.  John  Clark,  for  sixty 
HifnurrUft.  y^*8  the  pastor  of  the  Baptist  church  at 
Crockerton  in  Wiltshire,  where  he  preached  his 
last  sermon  in  1803,  in  his  ninety-first  year.  This  union 
was  the  source  of  unalloyed  happiness  to  both  during  the 
long  period  of  forty-six  years  which  it  subsisted,  Mrs. 
Marshman  was  a  woman  of  feeling,  piety,  and  good  sense, 
of  strong  mind  and  great  disinterestedness,  fitted  in  every 
respect  to  be  an  associate  in  the  great  undertaking  to 
which  the  life  of  her  husband  was  devoted,  and  withal 
of  so  amiable  a  disposition  that  nothing  was  ever  known 
to  have  ruffled  her  temper.  At  the  beginning  of  1794 
Mr.  Marshman's  efforts  were  happily  turned  in  a  direction 
more  congenial  with  his  disposition,  and  the  course  of 
manual  toil,  relieved  only  by  the  acquisition  of  such  stores 
of  knowledge  as  few  men  have  gained  under  such  disad- 
vantages, was  brought  to  a  close.  A  school,  supported 
by  the  church  at  Broadmead,  in  Bristol,  was  in  want 
of  a  master,  and  Mr.  Marshman  was  asked  to  accept  the 
office,  with  permission  to  eke  out  the  scanty  salary  by 
taking  as  many  private  pupils  as  he  desired.  This  was  so 
manifest  a  leading  of  Providence  that  even  the  deacons  at 
Westbury  Leigh  could  not  gainsay  it,  and  he  was  advised 
by  his  friends  in  the  village  to  accept  it.     He  removed 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1799.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SBRAMPORB  MISSION.  10/ 

to  Bristol  when  a  little  under  twenty-six,  at  the  beginning 
of  1794.  He  was  introduced  on  his  arrival  to  Dp.  Ryland, 
the  President  of  Bristol  Academy,  who,  when  Rem0Tef  to 
made  acquainted  with  the  state  of  his  reli-  Bri,toL 
gious  feelings,  and  the  rigidity  of  the  Westbury  Leigh 
church,  urged  him  to  join  the  church  at  Broadmead,  and 
he  was  received  into  it  by  baptism  in  the  course  of  the 
year.  He  was  also  permitted  to  join  the  classes  at  the 
academy,  and  for  more  than  five  years  applied  himself,  with 
his  usual  diligence  and  success,  to  the  study  of  the  classics, 
to  which  he  also  added  Hebrew  and  Syriac.  While  he 
paid  the  most  scrupulous  attention  to  the  duties  of  the 
school,  and  to  his  own  private  pupils  —  among  whom  were 
two  who  have  since  risen  to  great  eminence,  the  late  Colonel 
Rich,  the  British  Resident  at  Bagdad,  and  Dr.  Thomas 
Southwood  Smith  —  he  was' enabled,  by  a  strict  economy 
of  time,  to  keep  abreast  of  his  fellow  students  at  the 
academy.  The  sums  he  received  for  tuition  placed  him 
in  circumstances  of  ease  and  comfort,  and  opened  to  him 
the  prospect  of  independence  in  a  few  years.  But  he  had 
read  the  Periodical  Accounts  of  the  Baptist  Missionary 
Society,  and  his  mind  was  gradually  turned  to  missionary 
labour  in  the  East.  Mr.  Grant,  his  friend  and  pupil,  and 
of  whose  conversion  from  a  state  of  infidelity  he  had  been 
the  humble  instrument,  having  offered  his  ser-  Eiwetlntha 
vices  to  the  society,  Mr.  Marshman  resolved  to  MiMlon- 
relinquish  all  his  secular  prospects,  and  accompany  him 
to  India.  Dr.  Ryland,  who  had  long  fixed  his  eyes  on 
Mr.  Marshman  for  the  missionary  field,  encouraged  these 
views,  and  Mr.  Marshman  placed  himself  in  communica- 
tion with  the  society.  His  offer  was  accepted,  though  not 
perhaps  with  the  same  feeling  of  cordiality  which  had 
been  manifested  in  the  case  of  his  colleagues ;  and  it  was 
chiefly  by  his  singular  energy  and  discretion  at  Seram- 
pore,  that  he  was  enabled  to  obtain  the  confidence  of 
Mr.  Fuller,  which,  however,  when  once  given,  was  never 
withdrawn.    Within  three  weeks  after  Mr.  Marshman  had 


Digitized  by 


Google 


108  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  IL 

determined  to  proceed  to  India  he  was  sailing  down  the 
Channel. 

The  committee  accepted  the  offers  of  the  four  can- 
didates for  missionary  labour,  in  rapid  succession,  with  the 
prorwonbythe  greatest  delight.  It  was  the  most  animating 
^StSSS  event  which  had  occurred  since  the  formation 
fourminionarie*.  ^  ^e  society  and  the  departure  of  Mr.  Carey; 
but,  when  Mr.  Fuller  sat  down  to  count  the  cost,  his  mind 
was  clouded  with  apprehension  regarding  the  means  of 
supporting  so  large  a  body  on  their  arrival  in  India.  The 
funds  in  the  hands  of  the  treasurer  had,  it  is  true,  accu- 
mulated to  3000Z.,  but  a  considerable  portion  of  this  sum 
would  be  absorbed  in  the  outfit  and  passage  of  the  mis- 
sionaries. A  still  larger  sum  would  be  required  for  the 
printing  of  the  New  Testament,  which  Mr.  Carey  now 
estimated  at  2000Z.,  for  which  amount  he  desired  the 
society  to  be  prepared  to  honour  his  bills.  Mr.  Fuller, 
therefore,  fell  back  on  Mr.  Carey's  plan  of  a  Moravian 
settlement,  which  has  been  alluded  to  in  a  previous  chapter, 
and  he  wrote  to  him  and  to  Mr.  Fountain  to  say,  "  Now 
we  apprehend  you  will  find  it  necessary  to  form  what  you 
have  proposed,  a  kind  of  Moravian  settlement,  as  otherwise 
we  do  not  see  how  the  missionaries  can  be  supported. 
Our  hearts  rejoice  at  the  character  of  these  young  people, 
and  in  anticipating  the  joy  it  will  afford  you  if  God  should 
prosper  their  way  and  carrv  them  in  safety  to  Mudnabatty. 
We  shall  be  able,  through  tne  good  hand  of  God  upon  us, 
to  support  you,  if  you  form  a  settlement  according  to 
Brother  Carey's  proposal  —  that  is,  you  may  draw  on 
Messrs.  Weston,  Pinhorn,  Golding,  Newson,  and  Weston, 
bankers,  London,  for  360?.  a  year  for  your  whole  number, 
in  which  we  do  not  include  Mr.  Thomas,  who  will  probably 
not  be  with  you.  We  shall  also,  we  trust,  be  able  to  get 
through  the  printing  of  2000  copies  of  the  New  Testament, 
for  which  we  have  already  sent  the  paper,  and,  if  a  larger 
edition  be  wanted,  we  shall  find  the  money.  We  have 
now  nearly  3000?.  in  hand,  above  1000/.  of  which  will  go 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1799.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  109 

in  sending  out  the  missionaries ;  but  the  Lord  is  our  pro 
vider,  we  shall  not  want."  However  incredible  it  may 
appear,  it  was  with  these  prospects  before  them  that 
Mr.  Marshman  and  Mr.  Ward,  and  th&r  two  associates, 
embarked  with  their  families  for  India.  This  sum  of  360Z-, 
which  at  the  exchange  of  the  day  —  two  and  sixpence  the 
rupee  —  was  equivalent  to  only  2880  rupees  in  India,  was 
the  sole  provision  which  the  society  deemed  it  within  their 
power  to  make  for  the  support  of  the  whole  missionary 
establishment,  consisting  of  six  men,  five  females,  and 
eight  children.  In  the  memorandum  which  Mr.  Fuller 
placed  in  the  hands  of  the  missionaries  as  they  were  leav- 
ing England,  and  which  is  dated  the  20th  of  May,  1799, 
he  remarked,  "  When  the  missionaries  arrive,  though  they 
will  form  a  company  and  keep  one  table,  yet  there  will  b6 
something  wherein  they  must  be  distinct ;  and  will  want, 
according  to  their  families,  some  distinct  allowance.  Each 
must  have,  what  we  term,  something  for  pocket-money. 
This  must  be  adjusted  by  Brother  Carey  and  themselves." 
On  receiving  Mr.  Fuller's  letter  announcing  the  acceptance 
of  the  missionaries  and  their  approaching  departure,  Mr, 
Carey  immediately  commenced  the  building  of  the  "  straw 
houses"  for  his  new  colleagues  in  that  isolated  and  un- 
healthy locality,  where  he  had  a  small  indigo  factory 
without  a  single  vat,  and  where  he  expected  the  mis- 
sionaries to  live,  and  labour,  and  flourish  on  forty  rupees 
a  month  for  each  family. 

The  East  India  Company's  spring  fleet  was  then  in  the 
Downs  preparing  to  sail  for  Calcutta ;  but  to  have  sought 
a  passage  in  any  of  their  vessels  would  have 

-r  °  n   .  J  -  _  ,  ...  They  embark  in 

been  an  act  of  insanity.  Not  only  would  per-  ^£  ££$££*" 
mission  have  been  peremptorily  refused,  but 
instructions  might  probably  have  been  sent  to  India  to  put 
the  Government  on  its  guard,  and  prevent  the  entrance  of 
the  missionaries  into  the  country,  through  any  foreign 
vessel.  All  the  Danish  vessels  of  the  season  had  taken 
their  departure;    but  happily,   an   American    ship,  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


110  HISTORY  OF  THIS  SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  H. 

"  Criterion,"  was  on  the  eve  of  sailing  for  Bengal,  and  a 
passage  was  immediately  engaged  for  the  whole  party. 
She  was  commanded  by  Captain  Wickes,  a  Presbyterian 
of  Providence  in  the  United  States.  On  hearing  that  the 
passengers  were  missionaries,  he  wrote  to  Mr.  Fuller  that 
he  had  long  cherished  the  hope  of  being  privileged  to 
convey  the  messengers  of  the  Gospel  to  the  heathen,  and 
that  his  fondest  wish  was  about  to  be  gratified.  On  the 
29th  of  May,  the  vessel,  with  its  missionary  freight, 
reached  Portsmouth,  and  proceeded  to  sea.  The  voyage, 
which  lasted  four  months  and  a  half,  was  deprived  of  its 
usual  inconveniences,  by  the  rare  kindness  and  the  Chris- 
tian sympathy  of  the  commander.  The  missionaries  had 
divine  service  twice  on  the  Sunday,  whenever  the  weather 
permitted,  and  enjoyed  continual  opportunities  of  social 
devotion.  Some  of  the  passengers,  as  well  as  the  super- 
cargo, who  professed  infidel  principles,  ridiculed  the  idea 
of  going  out  to  India  to  convert  the  blacks,  and  not  to  make 
money ;  but  the  general  harmony  of  the  voyage  was  not 
disturbed  by  any  disputes.  The  missionaries  allotted  a 
portion  of  each  day  to  the  instruction  of  the  sailors,  to 
whom  they  became  in  no  small  degree  endeared  by  their 
affectionate  exertions,  and  some  of  the  most  obdurate 
were  brought  under  the  influence  of  religious  truth.  As 
they  approached  the  shores  of  India,  the  treatment  they 
were  likely  to  experience  from  a  hostile  government  was 
often  discussed  with  feelings  of  anxiety,  and  the  want  of 
a  license  from  the  Court  of  Directors  depressed  their 
spirits.  Mr.  Charles  Grant,  who  had  been  several  years 
in  the  direction  of  the  East  India  Company,  was  fully 
aware  of  the  hostility  of  his  colleagues  to  the  missionary 
enterprise,  and  he  therefore  advised  Mr.  Fuller  that  the 
missionaries  should  not  expose  themselves  to  immediate 
banishment  by  landing  in  Calcutta,  but  proceed  direct  to 
Serampore,  which  was  under  the  Danish  flag,  and  wait  for 
an  opportunity  of  proceeding  to  Mudnabatty.  They 
were,    therefore,    furnished  with    a  letter  of  introduc- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1799.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SEBAMPORE  MISSION.  Ill 

tion  from  the  Danish  Consulate  in  London  to  the  go- 
vernor of  that  settlement.  On  the  5th  of  October,  the 
"Criterion"  anchored  in  Sagor  Roads,  and  ArriTemthe 
the  pilot  came  on  board,  and  delivered  to  the  HoOBhly- 
captain  the  blank  forms  he  was  required  to  fill  up,  with 
the  names  of  his  passengers,  their  profession,  and  their 
destination.  The  missionaries  consulted  among  them- 
selves whether  it  would  not  be  more  advisable  to  report 
themselves — according  to  a  suggestion  in  one  of  Mr. 
Carey's  letters — as  his  assistants  proceeding  to  his  indigo 
factory,  near  Malda ;  but  they  determined  boldly  to  avow 
themselves  as  missionaries,  and  to  trust  to  Divine  Pro- 
vidence to  protect  them  from  the  consequences  of  such  a 
declaration.  The  captain  consequently  entered  them  as 
Christian  missionaries,  proceeding  to  the  Danish  settle* 
ment  at  Serampore.  The  returns  thus  filled  up  were 
sent  to  Calcutta  on  Wednesday  the  9th  of  October.  Mr. 
Marshman  and  his  associates  were  not  without  hope  that 
Mr.  Thomas  would  have  been  waiting  to  receive  them, 
but  he  was  a  hundred  miles  in  the  interior  of  the  country, 
manufacturing  sugar.  There  was  no  friendly  voice  to 
welcome  them  to  the  strange  land  in  which  they  had 
arrived,  and  they  must  have  been  subjected  to  no  little 
inconvenience,  but  for  the  kindness  of  Captain  Wickes. 
He  procured  boats  for  their  luggage,  in  which  they 
embarked  under  the  guidance  of  his  sirkar,  who  spoke  a 
little  English,  and  on  Sunday  morning,  the  p™^  to 
13th  of  October,  they  found  themselves  oppo-  Seran,pore- 
site  the  neat  little  hotel  at  Serampore.  Mr.  Marshman 
immediately  went  on  shore,  and  falling  on  his  knees, 
blessed  God  for  having  brought  them  in  safety  across  the 
ocean,  and  landed  them  on  the  soil  of  India. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


112  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [CHAr.  HI. 


CHAP.  in. 

The  little  Danish  town  of  Serampore,  which  has  been 
rendered  so  memorable  in  the  history  of  Christian  mis- 
The  town  of  s«.  sions,  lies  on  the  right  bank  of  the  river  Hooghly, 
rwnpore'  about  sixteen  miles  above  Calcutta.  The  situa- 

tion is  more  picturesque  and  grateful  than  that  of  any 
town  in  the  province.  On  the  opposite  bank  is  the  canton- 
ment of  Barrackpore,  where  five  or  six  native  regiments 
are  usually  stationed,  and  the  elegant  country-seat  of  the 
Governor-General,  with  a  well-wooded  and  beautiful  park 
stretching  for  a  mile  along  the  margin  of  the  river.  Pre- 
vious to  the  establishment  of  this  settlement,  the  Danish 
factors  had  landed  and  shipped  their  cargos  at  the 
French  town  of  Chandernagore,  eight  miles  higher  up 
the  river,  but  this  was  found  to  be  inconvenient;  and, 
after  a  tedious  negotiation,  and  an  expenditure  of  16,000?. 
among  the  favourites  and  officials  at  Moorshedabad,  they 
succeeded  in  obtaining  a  firman  from  the  Nabob,  Aly 
Verdy  Khan,  to  purchase  about  twenty  acres  of  land  at 
Serampore,  and  establish  a  factory.  This  was  one  of  the 
latest  acts  of  sovereignty  performed  by  the  Nabob  of 
Moorshedabad.  Two  years  after,  the  three  provinces  of 
Bengal,  Behar,  and  Orissa  were  conquered  by  Clive,  and 
the  British  empire  in  the  East  began.  On  the  8th  of  Oc- 
tober, 1755,  Mr.  Soetman,  and  his  assistant,  Ziegenbalsk, 
the  Danish  officers  deputed  from  Tranquebar,  htisted  the 
Danish  colours  on  the  spot  where  they  continued  to  fly 
for  ninety  years.  The  next  year  the  young  Nabob, 
Seraja  Dowlah,  incensed  at  the  protection  afforded  by 
the  Governor  of  Calcutta  to  a  wealthy  native  whom  he 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1799.]  HISTORr  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  113 

had  marked  out  for  plunder,  marched  down  with  an  army 
of  50,000  men,  and  sacked  the  town,  and  expelled  the 
Company's  establishments  from  Bengal.  In  his  progress 
to  Calcutta  he  extorted  contributions  of  money  and  am- 
munition from  the  Dutch  authorities  at  Chinsurah  and 
the  French  at  Chandernagore,  and  then  sent  an  officer 
over  to  Serampore  to  require  the  Danish  agent  to  join  his 
standard  with  all  his  available  horse,  foot,  and  artillery. 
Soetman  humbly  replied  that  he  had  neither  troops  nor 
guns,  but  was  living  with  his  assistant  in  a  hut  he  had 
erected,  surrounded  by  a  few  native  constables  to  pro- 
tect the  flag  while  the  factory  was  building.  The  settle- 
ment gradually  increased  in  size  and  importance,  and  its 
commerce  was  materially  assisted  by  English  capital. 
The  fortunes  accumulated  by  the  servants  of  the  East 
India  Company  had  commonly  been  paid  into  the  Calcutta 
treasury  in  exchange  for  bills  on  the  Court  of  Directors 
in  London.  The  Court  were  thus  subject  to  irregular  and 
unexpected  demands  in  England  to  suit  the  convenience, 
not  of  their  own  commerce,  but  of  their  own  rapacious 
and  glutted  servants.  They  were  obliged  at  length  to 
restrain  this  accommodation  within  a  very  narrow  limit, 
and  the  accumulations  of  their  servants  were  afterwards  in 
great  part  transmitted  to  Europe  in  Danish  investments. 
Within  twenty  years  after  the  establishment  of  the  settle- 
ment, the  number  of  ships  which  resorted  to  it  in  nine 
months  did  not  fall  short  of  twenty-two,  with  cargoes 
amounting  in  the  aggregate  to  more  than  10,000  tons* 
When  Mr.  Marshman  and  Mr.  Ward  and  their  two 
friends  landed  there  the  town  had  reached  the  zenith  of 
its  prosperity.  The  settlements  of  Chandernagore  and 
Chinsurah  had  been  captured  by  England  during  the  war 
of  the  French  Revolution,  and  the  only  trade  of  the 
Presidency  in  the  hands  of  foreigners  was  concentrated  in 
Serampore. 

On  Monday,  the   14th   of  October,   the  missionaries 
waited  on  the  Governor,  Colonel  Bie,  with  the  letter  from 

VOL.  I.  I 


Digitized  by 


Google 


114  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  III. 

the  Danish  consul  in  London,  and  were  received  with 
the  most  cordial  affability.     He  offered  them  all  the  as- 
sistance in  his   power,   but   expressed  great 
^§8?* "  doubts  whether  they  would  be  permitted  by 
the  British  Government  to   proceed  up  the 
country  to  Malda.     They  were  not,  however,  deterred 
by  his  remarks,  but  began  to  engage  boats,  and  prepare 
for  their  immediate   departure.     But  a  grievous  disap- 
pointment awaited  them.     The  captain's  report  of  having 
brought  out  four  missionaries  reached  Calcutta  on  Thurs- 
day, and  was  submitted  by  the  police  to  the  Governor- 
General  in  Council,  without  the  loss  of  a  day.     This  was 
the  first  instance  in   which  the  arrival  of  missionaries, 
without  the  permission  of  the  Court  of  Directors,  had  been 
officially  brought  before  Government,  and  it  was  resolved 
that  the  missionaries  should  be  forthwith  required  to  leave 
the  country.     Orders  to  this  effect  were  sent  to  the  town 
authorities   the  next  day;    and   when  Captain   Wickes 
applied  on  Monday  to  enter  his  vessel,  he  was  informed 
that  instructions  had  been  issued  by  Government  to  refuse 
it,  unless  the  four  missionaries  appeared  at  the  police 
office,  and   entered   into  engagements  to  return  imme- 
diately to  England.      This  intelligence,   which   Captain 
Wickes  brought  up   to  Serampore  in  person   the  same 
evening,  disarranged  all  their  plans,  and  filled  their  minds 
with  dismay.     They  determined,  however,  to  remain  at 
Serampore,  and  quietly  await  the  development  of  circum- 
stances, unless  the  governor  of  the  settlement  declined  to 
protect  them.     They  waited  on  him  the  next  morning,  and 
explained  the  difficulties  of  their  position.     Colonel  Bie 
had  enjoyed  the  ministry  and  instructions  of 
goJemo^ofse-    Schwartz,  while  an  officer  at  the  Danish  settle- 
ment  of  Tranquebar,  on  the  coast,  and  enter- 
tained great  regard  for  the  cause  of  missions.  He  had  been 
nearly  forty  years  in  the  service  of  the  Danish  Company,  the 
greater  portion  of  which  period  was  passed  in  the  govern- 
ment  of  Serampore.     He  was  a  man  of  small  stature,  but 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1799.]  HISTORY  Of  THE  SERAMPORB  MISSION.  115 

undaunted  resolution,  and  though  the  contrast  was  so 
palpable  between  his  little  commercial  settlement,  with  a 
small  saluting  battery,  and  the  empire  of  British  India,  in 
which  it  appeared  a  mere  speck,  he  had  maintained  a 
tone  of  lofty  independence  towards  the  British  Govern- 
ment twenty  years  before  this  time,  and  had  given  no  little 
umbrage  to  Warren   Hastings.      Subsequently  to  that 
period  he  had  uniformly  resisted  the  demand  of  successive 
Governors-General  for  the  surrender  of  those  to  whom 
he  had  given  the  protection  of  his  flag.      He  was  now 
prepared  anew  to  brave  the  indignation  of  the  British 
Government  by  offering  the  missionaries  an  asylum,  but 
at  the  same  time  advised  them  to  present  an  explanatory 
memorial  to   Lord  Weliesley.      They  lost  no  time  in 
writing  to  Mr.  Carey  to  come  down  with  all  expedition, 
and  aid  them  at  this  crisis  with  his  advice.     Mr.  Ward 
and  Mr.  Brunsdon  also  went  down  to  Calcutta  to  make 
interest  for  permission  to  remain  in  the  country;   but 
they  found  that  a  paragraph  had  appeared  in  a  news- 
paper of  the  preceding  day,  stating  that  four  Papist  mis- 
sionaries had  arrived  in  a  foreign  vessel  and  proceeded  to 
Serampore.     The  editor  had  never  heard  of  the  existence 
of  the .  Baptist  denomination,   and   concluded  that  the 
missionaries  must  be  Popish  priests,  more  especially  as 
the  emissaries  of  Bonaparte  were  known  to  be  traversing 
the  country  under  that  guise.     But  the  Governor-General 
was  soon  assured  of  the  Protestant  character 
and  pacific  designs  of  the  missionaries.     He  ^™^themt0 
found,  moreover,  that  they  were  now  beyond 
his  reach,  and  he  felt  that  he  had  no  legal  right  to  refuse 
an  entry  to  a  foreign  vessel,  simply  on  the  ground  that 
she  had  brought  out  four  passengers  who  had  proceeded 
to  a  foreign  settlement.     He  yielded  to   circumstances 
with  a  grace  that  did  credit  to  his  good  sense,  and  removed 
the  interdict   he  had  laid  on  the  "Criterion."     At  the 
same  time  Captain  Wickes  informed  the  police  that  the 

12 


Digitized  by 


Google 


116  HISTORY  OP  THE  SERAMPOBE  MI8SION.      TChaf.  IU. 

missionaries  did  not  intend  to  present  themselves  at  the 
office,  but  would  for  the  present  continue  at  Serampore. 

The    cause   of  immediate    anxiety,    the    prospect   of 

expulsion   from    the  country,  was  thus    removed,    but 

the    difficulties   of  their   situation   remained. 

muiiOTartei^     They  were  shut  up  in  a  little  town,  and  could 

Serampore.  *  x.  i        •  •  *»     i 

not  attempt  to  move  into  the  interior  of  the 
country  without  the  dread  of  interruption.  Four  days 
after  their  arrival  Captain  Wickes  called  on  the  Rev.  Mr. 
Brown,  and  presented  a  letter  of  introduction  which  the 
venerable  John  Newton  had  given  the  missionaries ;  and 
likewise  placed  in  his  hands  the  society's  valedictory 
address,  to  be  shown  to  the  Governor-General,  in  which 
they  were  cautioned  against  intermeddling  with  public 
affairs.  It  was  in  Mr.  Fuller's  own  strain:  "One  cir- 
cumstance is  of  so  much  consequence  that  we  must  not 
omit  it  in  this  parting  address,  though  you  have  been 
again  and  again  reminded  of  it  individually,  and  we  have 
no  reason  to  suspect  you  are  otherwise  minded  than  our- 
selves. Beware,  both  from  a  principle  of  conscience,  and 
from  soHnd  policy  and  regard  to  your  own  interest  and 
that  of  the  mission,  to  keep  at  the  utmost  distance  from 

intermeddling  with  any  political  concerns We 

certainly  would  sooner  hear  of  any  of  you  sinking  in  the 
ocean  than  of  his  becoming  a  busy-body  in  political 
affairs,  to  bring  dishonour  on  religion,  and  lay  the 
strongest  impediments  in  the  way  of  the  important  work 
we  have  at  heart."  Mr.  Brown  stood  high  at  this  time 
in  the  confidence  of  Lord  Wellesley,  and  possessed  great 
influence  in  the  highest  official  circle,  and  he  did  every- 
thing in  his  power  to  obtain  permission  for  the  mis- 
sionaries to  settle  in  the  British  territories ;  but  his 
efforts  proved  unavailing.  The  leading  members  of 
Government  fully  participated  in  the  feelings  of  the  India 
House,  and  were  determined  that  there  should  be  no 
missionaries  at  their  Presidency.  Mr.  Marshman  and  his 
colleagues  were  therefore  constrained  to  remain  in  a  state 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1799.]  HISTORY  OF  THE   SBRAMPOBE  MISSION.  117 

of  seclusion  at  Serampore  till  they  could  receive  com- 
munications from  Mr.  Carey.     As  a  longer  residence  at 
the  expensive  hotel  would  have  told  seriously  on  their 
limited  funds,  they  hired  a  small  house  in  a  back  part 
of  the  town,  into  which  they  removed  the  fourth  day 
after  their  arrival.     It  was  not  only  exceedingly  incon- 
venient, affording  to  each  family  the  accommodation  of 
only  a  single  chamber  about  fourteen  feet  square,  but  also 
very  damp,  and  the  season  was  the  close  of  the  rains.     It 
contained  one  room   of  larger  dimensions,   which  was 
reserved  for  their  common  table  and  for  divine  service, 
and  on  the  second  Sunday  after  their  arrival  they  invited 
the  Christian  community  of  the  town  to  join  them  in 
public  worship.    The  governor  and  many  other  gentlemen 
sent  their  own  chairs,  and  filled  the  room.     Mr.  Ward  de- 
livered an  excellent  discourse,  and  thus  records  the  event 
in  his  own  journal :  "  Oct.  20.    I  am  this  day  thirty  years 
of  age.     What  scenes  have  I  passed  through !  and  now  I 
am  fifteen  thousand  miles  from  home,  preaching  before 
the  governor  of  a  Danish  settlement ! "     The  dampness 
of  the  house  soon  proved  fatal  to  one  of  their  number, 
Mr.  Grant,  who  was  attacked  with  a  severe  j^^  ^  m 
cold,  which  brought  on  fever,  and  he  was  a  Graot* 
corpse  on  the  31st  of  October,  before  his  brethren,  new 
to  the  climate,  were  aware  of  his  danger.     A  short  and 
simple  train  of  mourners  accompanied  his  remains  to  the 
Danish  burial-ground.     In  the  peculiar  circumstances  in 
which  they  were  then  placed,  with  their  path  blocked  up, 
and  uncertain  whether  they  should  be  permitted  to  con- 
tinue in  the  country,  this  unexpected  bereavement  was 
felt  with  peculiar  keenness. 

Mr.  Carey's  reply  to  the  letter  which  announced  the 
arrival  and  embarrassment  of  the  missionaries  did  not 
reach  them  before  the  3rd  of  November,  and  it 
afforded  them  little  relief  from  their  anxieties.  ™P"a°gn!he\r 
He  was   unwilling    to   abandon  the    idea  of 
making  the  obscure  village  of  Kidderpore,  in  the  Malda 

i  3 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


118  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  III. 

district,  the  seat  of  their  labours,  and  of  establishing  the 
missionary  settlement  and  press  in  the  vicinity  of  his 
factory.  He  was  not  without  hope  that  the  opposition  of 
Government  might  be  overcome,  and  he  wrote  to  many 
of  his  friends  in  Calcutta  to  secure  their  influence.  He 
entreated  his  friend,  Dr.  Roxburgh,  the  superintendent  of 
the  Company's  Botanic  Garden,  to  request  Mr.  Colebrooke, 
the  eminent  orientalist,  and  one  of  the  most  influential 
members  of  Government,  to  make  interest  for  his  brethren ; 
but  Mr.  Colebrooke  assured  him  that  any  application  to 
Government  for  leave  to  settle  as  missionaries  in  the 
interior  would  be  unsuccessful,  and  would,  moreover, 
create  irritation,  and  that  any  attempt  to  proceed  up  the 
country  without  permission  would  ensure  their  being  sent 
back  immediately  to  England.  But  the  kindness  of  the 
governor  of  Serampore  was  redoubled  as  the  hostility  of 
the  British  Government  became  more  manifest.  He 
called  on  the  missionaries  on  the  6th  of  November,  and 
pressed  them  to  take  into  consideration  the  propriety  of 
making  Serampore  the  head-quarters  of  the  mission.  He 
assured  them  that  under  the  protection  of  the  Danish 
crown  they  would  have  nothing  to  fear  from  the  op- 
position of  their  own  Government.  He  represented  to 
them  that  they  might  establish  a  school  for  the  support  of 
the  mission,  which  in  the  vicinity  of  the  British  metropolis 
would  soon  become  remunerative ;  that  they  might  set  up 
a  press,  and  print  the  Scriptures  and  tracts  without  hin- 
drance, and  that  suitable  premises  might  be  obtained  on 
very  reasonable  terms.  He  stated  that  he  was  prepared 
to  grant  them  all  the  privileges  of  Danish  citizenship, 
though  as  yet  they  possessed  no  landed  property  in  the 
town ;  and  he  offered  them  passports  under  his  own  of- 
ficial seal  whenever  they  desired  to  travel  in  the  British 
territories.  As  a  further  inducement  to  them  to  remain 
in  the  settlement,  he  offered  to  make  over  to  them  the 
Church,  for  the  construction  of  which  he  was  then  en- 
deavouring to  raise  subscriptions.     At  the  same  time  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1799.]  HISTORY  OF  THE   SERAMPORE  MISSION.  119 

Rev.  Mr.  Brown,  who  was  well  acquainted  with  the  views 
and  policy  of  Lord  Wellesley,  assured  them  that  he  was, 
above  all  things,  resolved  not  to  allow  the  establishment 
of  any  press  in  the  Company's  territories  out  of  Calcutta. 
The  cause  of  this  repugnance  is  thus  explained. 

Lord  Wellesley  was  at  this  time  exasperated  beyond 
measure  against  the  press  of  Calcutta,  and  had  adopted 
measures  of  restraint  of  such  extreme  harsh- 
ness as   even  the  difficulties  of  his  political  vtewtoueuEey* 

it  prett* 

position  were  scarcely  sufficient  to  palliate.  On 
the  coast  he  was  engaged  in  the  final  struggle  with  Tippoo 
Sultan,  while  the  other  country  powers  were  in  compara- 
tive vigour,  and  wavering  in  their  sentiments  regarding 
the  British  Government.  He  regarded,  therefore,  with 
extreme  sensitiveness,  any  remarks  in  the  public  journals, 
which  appeared  in  any  degree  likely  to  compromise  the 
stability  of  our  rule  in  the  East.  Mr.  Bruce,  the  editor 
of  the  "  Asiatic  Mirror,"  a  Calcutta  newspaper,  and  one  of 
the  ablest  public  writers  who  has  ever  appeared  in  India, 
had  indulged  in  some  speculative  opinions  on  the  compa- 
rative strength  of  the  European  and  native  population, 
written  in  all  simplicity  and  good  faith,  and  without  any 
factious  design.  But  Lord  Wellesley  considered  the  ar- 
ticle u  mischievous,"  and  in  his  anxiety  that  the  "public 
security,"  as  he  said,  "  might  not  be  exposed  to  constant 
hazard,"  he  directed  Sir  Alured  Clarke,  whom  he  had  left 
in  charge  of  the  Government  of  Calcutta  during  his 
absence  at  Madras,  to  embark  the  editor  of  that  paper  for 
Europe  in  the  first  ship  which  might  sail  from  Calcutta; 
adding,  "If  you  cannot  tranquillise  the  editors  of  this 
and  other  mischievous  publications,  be  so  good  as  to 
suppress  their  papers  by  force,  and  send  their  persons  to 
Europe."  At  the  same  time  he  established  a  very  rigid 
censorship  of  the  press,  and  directed  that  no  paper 
should  be  allowed  to  appear  until  it  had  been  revised  by 
the  secretary  to  Government,  who  was  desired  to  expunge 
whatever  appeared  to  him  likely  "  to  endanger  the  public 

I  4 


Digitized  by 


Google 


120  HISTORY  OF  THE   SEBAMPOBE  MISSION."     [Chap.  III. 

tranquillity."  The  penalty  of  any  offence  against  these 
stern  regulations,  was  immediate  deportation  to  England. 
These  rules,  on  reaching  Leadenhall  Street,  received  the 
cordial  approbation  of  the  Court  of  Directors,  and  a  de- 
spatch was  drafted  without  any  loss  of  time  for  transmis- 
sion to  India.  But  it  had  to  pass  the  ordeal  of  the  Board 
of  Control,  and  the  President  drew  his  fatal  red  mark 
across  the  sentences  which  expressed  approval  of  Lord 
Wellesley's  rules,  an4  reserved  the  question  for  further 
consideration.  At  a  subsequent  period,  after  his  return 
to  England,  and  when  the  rust  of  oriental  despotism  had 
been  rubbed  off  by  the  friction  of  constitutional  associa- 
tions, he  fixed  his  own  condemnation  on  these  arbitrary 
regulations,  by  directing  them  to  be  excluded  from  the 
collection  of  his  official  despatches,  published  under  his 
own  superintendence.  But  at  the  period  to  which  we 
refer  —  November,  1799  —  these  feelings  of  exasperation 
and  dread  regarding  the  press  were  in  full  force,  and  it 
was  at  this  inauspicious  juncture  that  the  missionaries 
sought  permission  to  establish  a  press  in  the  interior  of 
the  country,  two  hundred  miles  from  Calcutta.  To  this 
proposal  the  Governor-General  gave  the  most  decided  and 
peremptory  refusal. 

Mr.  Marshman   and  Mr.  Ward  gathered  from  their 

intercourse  with  Mr.  Brown,  that  though  Lord  Wellesley 

would  on  no  account  permit  the  existence  of  a 

Mr.  Ward  pro-  .  -  ...  s*  -a  r    i  i        •  i 

ceeds  to  Madna-  press  in  the  vicinity  of  Malda,  it  was  not  alto- 
gether foreign  to  his  wishes  that  the  missionaries 
should  accept  Col.  Bie's  offer,  and  establish  their  mission 
in  a  settlement  beyond  the  reach  of  British  interference, 
where  he  would  be  relieved  from  the  necessity  of  disturbing 
them.  Lord  Wellesley  was  a  despot,  but  an  enlightened 
despot.  The  uncontrolled  power  vested  in  him  he  valued, 
because  it  enabled  him  to  secure  the  safety  and  promote 
the  prosperity  of  the  British  empire  in  the  East.  But  he 
had  no  sympathy  with  the  little,  contracted  views  which 
then  prevailed  in  the  Corporation  in  Leadenhall  Street, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1799.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SEBAMPOBB  MISSION.  J  21 

where  the  dread  of  interlopers  was  an  heirloom,  and  it  was 
almost  treasonable  to  name  missionaries  and  schoolmas- 
ters. He  did  not  consider  either  of  these  classes  danger- 
ous, and  he  had  therefore  no  reason  for  persecuting  them. 
The  more  closely  Mr.  Marshman  and  Mr.  Ward  considered 
their  position  and  prospects,  the  more  clearly  did  it  appear- 
to  be  their  duty  to  give  up  Kidderpore  and  the  Malda 
district,  and  plant  their  establishment  at  Serampore.  To 
avoid  the  loss  of  time  which  a  lengthened  correspondence 
would  entail,  it  was  resolved  to  depute  Mr.  Ward  to  discuss 
the  question  in  person  with  Mr.  Carey,  and  he  immediately 
proceeded  to  Malda,  under  the  protection  of  a  Danish 
passport.  He  reached  Mr.  Carey's  bungalow  on  the 
1st  of  December,  and  thus  describes  his  first  interview 
with  the  man  who  -was  destined  to  be  his  colleague  for 
twenty-two  years  in  this  missionary  enterprise :  "This 
morning  we  left  the  boat,  and  walked  a  mile  and  a  half  to 
brother  Carey's.  I  felt  very  unusual  sensations  as  I  drew 
near  the  house.  So  near  to  brother  Carey,  after  a  voyage 
of  15,000  miles,  and  a  tedious  passage  up  the  river,  and 
in  our  present  circumstances,  ....  what  an  interesting 
situation !  The  sight  of  the  house  increased  my  per- 
turbation. We  met  Hurry  Churron.  At  length  I  saw 
Carey !  He  is  less  altered  than  I  expected,  has  rather 
more  flesh  than  when  in  England,  and,  blessed  be  God, 
he  is  a  young  man  still." 

The  day  after  his  arrival,  Mr.  Ward  discussed  their 
future  movements  with  Mr.  Carey.  At  Kidderpore  he 
lived  only  by  sufferance  ;  his  license  might 
be  revoked  at  any  moment,  if  he  gave  any  dis-  E^*™"™ 
quietude  to  Government,  and  it  was  likely  to  be 
summarily  withdrawn  when  his  missionary  vocation  was 
discovered ;  neither  would  his  brethren  be  permitted  to  join 
him.  At  Serampore,  under  the  protection  of  the  Danish 
flag,  they  would  be  free  from  molestation  by. the  British 
authorities;  they  might  establish  a  press,  and  receive 
additional   missionaries;   and   the  country  around  was 


Digitized  by 


Google 


122  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Cha*.  III. 

densely  peopled.  On  the  other  hand,  Mr.  Carey  had 
purchased  an  indigo  factory,  and  commenced  the  erection 
of  buildings  for  his  brethren,  which  could  not  be  aban- 
doned without  loss.  While  they  were  discussing  the  sub- 
ject, a  letter  arrived  from  Mr.  Marshman  at  Serampore, 
stating  that  some  of  the  leading  members  of  Government 
were  exasperated  at  the  surreptitious  mode  in  which  the 
missionaries  had  found  their  way  into  the  country  and 
obtained  an  asylum  in  a  foreign  settlement,  and  had 
threatened  to  arrest  any  of  them  who  might  be  found 
trespassing  on  the  Company's  territories.  Mr,  Ward 
states,  in  the  record  of  their  deliberations,  "I  have  a 
passport  from  the  governor  of  Serampore,  and  do  not 
therefore  fear  interruption."  This  letter  decided  the 
question  of  Mr.  Carey's  removal  to  Serampore.  Their 
future  arrangements  were  then  debated,  and  it  was  re- 
solved to  establish  the  mission  on  Mr.  Carey's  long- 
cherished  plan  of  a  Moravian  settlement,  to  purchase  a 
piece  of  ground  in  Serampore,  and  run  up  a  range  of 
cheap  houses  at  an  expense  not  exceeding  3001.  Mr. 
Fuller  had  informed  the  missionaries  that  the  balance 
in  the  hands  of  the  treasurer  amounted  to  3000/.  Mr. 
Carey  and  Mr.  Ward,  at  this  conference,  agreed  to  advise 
the  committee  to  remit  this  money  to  India,  to  be  invested 
in  Government  securities,  which  then  bore  interest  at  the 
tempting  rate  of  12  per  cent.  "This  sum,"  said  Mr. 
Carey,  "would  furnish  360/.  a  year,  without  the  diffi- 
culties and  uncertainties  of  drawing  on  England."  He 
expected  to  realise  a  farther  sum  of  200/.  a  year  from 
the  press  and  the  school  they  were  about  to  establish. 
A  month  after  he  urged  the  plan  on  the  society  with  in- 
creased importunity.  If  the  society,  he  remarked,  could 
only  secure  a  capital  of  4000/.,  yielding  an  annual  return 
of  480/.,  the  mission  "  could  be  established  without  any 
more  labour  of  begging."  He  added,  "  Perhaps  you  may 
start  at  the  proposal  of  investing  your  money  in  the 
Company's  hands,  lest  they  should  become  bankrupts  or 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1799.]  HISTORY   OF  THE   SERAMPORE  MISSION.  123 

be  dissolved. '  To  this  I  can  only  say,  that  in  this  case 
the  Government  of  England  would,  in  all  probability, 
become  responsible  for  their  debts."  He  does  not  appear 
to  have  considered  it  possible  that  the  credit  of  the  Com- 
pany would  ever  be  so  firmly  established  in  India  that, 
with  the  public  debt  quadrupled,  they  would  be  enabled 
with  ease  to  borrow  any  amount  of  money  at  five  per  cent. 
Happily  this  project  fell  to  the  ground.  An  endowed 
mission  of  necessity  becomes  lifeless.  A  feeling  of  health* 
ful  responsibility  to  the  Christian  public,  periodically  en- 
forced, appears  to  be  indispensable  to  the  maintenance  of 
zeal  and  animation  in  the  missionary  system.  The  money 
in  the  hands  of  the  treasurer,  instead  of  being  locked  up 
in  Government  securities,  was  more  usefully  employed  in 
enlarging  the  sphere  of  missionary  operations,  and  in 
printing  the  Scriptures,  and,  even  in  a  pecuniary  point  of 
view,  became  more  productive,  than  if  it  had  been  buried 
in  the  Company's  treasury.  Having  thus  determined 
to  remove  the  seat  of  the  mission  to  Serampore,  the 
press  which  Mr.  Udny  had  presented  to  the  mission,  and 
the  types  which  had  been  purchased  in  Calcutta,  were 
packed  up  and  despatched.  During  the  succeeding  three 
weeks,  Mr.  Carey  and  Mr.  Ward  were  employed  in  visiting 
Dinagepore,  Malda,  and  the  ruins  of  Gour,  and  in  taking 
leave  of  the  little  colony  of  Christian  friends  residing  in 
the  neighbourhood.  They  also  took  a  journey  into  the 
Rajmahl  hills,  where  Mr.  Ward  was  charmed  with  the 
honesty  and  simplicity  of  the*  mountain  tribes ;  and,  in 
writing  to  his  colleagues  at  Serampore,  said  that  a  Euro- 
pean would  evidently  be  well  received  among  them,  and 
listened  to  with  eagerness.  "  I  long,"  said  he,  "  to  stay 
here,  and  tell  these  social  and  untutored  heathen  the 
good  news  from  heaven.  I  have  a  strong  persuasion  that 
the  doctrine  of  a  dying  Saviour  would,  under  the  Holy 
Spirit's  influence,  melt  their  hearts/*  But  other  and 
more  important  scenes  of  labour  now  demanded  his  at- 
tention* 


Digitized  by 


Google 


124  HISTORY  OF  THE   SERAMPORE  MISSION.-    [Chap.  in. 

Mr.  Carey  arrived  at  Serampore  with  his  family,  con- 
sisting of  four  sons,  and  a  wife  in  a  state  of  hopeless 
insanity,  on  the  10th  of  January.     Thus  were 

Mr  C&rav's 

arritai at ser*»-  the  missionaries  emphatically  led  "by  a  way 
they  knew  not."  The  opposition  of  Government, 
which  at  first  threatened  to  extinguish  missionary  efforts 
in  Bengal,  became,  under  Providence,  the  occasion  of 
removing  the  seat  of  the  mission  from  one  of  the  most  un- 
suitable localities  to  the  immediate  vicinity  of  the  metro- 
polis, yet  beyond  the  reach  of  the  British  authorities. 
The  Power  which  had  encouraged  the  first  Protestant 
missionaries,  Ziegenbalg  and  his  associates,  in  the  south  of 
India,  had  now  the  honour  of  taking  under  its  protection 
the  infant  mission  in  the  north,  and  sheltering  it  from  the 
storm  which  menaced  its  existence.  If  the  settlement  of 
Serampore  had  not  existed,  or  if  it  had  not  been  at  the 
time  under  the  Danish  flag,  Mr.  Marshman  and  Mr.  Ward 
would,  in  all  human  probability,  have  been  constrained  to 
return  forthwith  to  England,  and  the  mission  might  have 
expired  in  its  cradle.  Mr.  Carey  would  not  have  been 
permitted  either  to  establish  a  press  for  the  printing  of  the 
Scriptures  at  Mudnabatty,  or  to  receive  any  addition  of 
missionaries,  and  his  labours  would  probably  have  become 
extinct  on  his  death.  The  day  after  his  arrival  at  Seram- 
pore he  waited  on  the  governor,  and  was  welcomed  with 
great  cordiality.  The  next  day,  being  the  Sabbath,  he 
preached  in  English  to  a  large  and  attentive  congregation, 
and  in  the  afternoon  delivered  his  first  address  In  Bengalee 
to  the  heathen  in  the  town.  The  week  was  occupied  in 
forming  rules  for  the  large  family  thus  brought  together, 
and  laying  down  the  plan  of  future  operations.  It  was 
determined  to  form  a  common  stock,  to  dine  at  a  com- 
mon table,  and  to  give  each  family  a  trifling  allowance 
— Mr.  Fuller's  pocket-money — for  personal  expenses.  All 
the  missionaries  were  to  be  considered  on  a  footing  of 
equality,  and  to  preach  and  conduct  social  devotions  in 
turn.     The  superintendence  of   domestic  arrangements 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1800.]  HISTORY  OF  THE   SERAMPORE  MISSION.  125 

and  expenditure  was  to  be  entrusted  to  each  missionary 
in  rotation  for  a  month.  Mr.  Carey  had  charge  of  the  public 
chest  as  treasurer,  and  also  of  the  medicine 
chest,  for  India  was  then  considered  so  unhealthy  flwjKET*  * 
that  a  constant  resort  to  medicine  was  deemed 
essential  to  existence.  Mr.  Fountain  was  appointed  libra- 
rian. One  evening  in  the  week  was  to  be  devoted  to  the 
adjustment  of  differences  and  the  renewal  of  their  pledge 
of  mutual  love ;  and  it  was  resolved  that  no  one  should 
engage  in  any  private  trade,  and  that  whatever  might  be 
earned  should  be  credited  to  the  common  stock. 

Leaving  the  missionaries  to  complete  their  first  arrange- 
ments, we  turn  for  a  moment  to  the  scene  which  was  ex- 
hibited at  this  time  in  Calcutta,  as  an  illustra- 
tion of  the  character  of  the  times.  In  a  former  monfinS  <£f." 
chapter  we  have  alluded  to  the  utter  extinction 
of  religious  feeling  among  the  functionaries  of  the  Govern- 
ment, which  followed  the  acquisition  of  uncontrolled  power 
and  incredible  wealth.  The  religion  of  the  Bible  appeared 
to  be  entirely  foreign  to  their  minds,  and  they  were  dis- 
tinguished from  the  heathen  around  them  chiefly  by  their 
total  disregard  of  all  religious  observances.  Beyond  the 
limits  of  Calcutta  there  was  no  Christian  house  of  prayer, 
or  any  assembly  for  religious  worship  which  might  have 
led  the  natives,  Hindoos  or  Mahomedans,  to  conclude  that 
the  English  nation  possessed  any  creed  whatever.  The 
French  revolution  brought  a  flood  of  infidelity  into  a 
community  fully  prepared  to  imbibe  its  debasing  prin- 
ciples, from  the  prescriptive  habit  of  regarding  the  truths 
of  the  Sacred  Scriptures  with  indifference,  if  not  with 
aversion.  At  the  period  when  Lord  Wellesley  assumed 
the  government,  nothing  was  considered  so  unfashionable 
as  religion,  and  even  a  formal  attendance  on  Christian 
ordinances  on  the  Sunday  was  a  singularity  which  in- 
spired contempt.  His  predecessor,  Sir  John  Shore,  how- 
ever eminent  for  his  personal  piety  and  Christian  virtues, 
was  deficient  in  that  strength  of  character  which  moulds 


Digitized  by 


Google 


126  HISTORY   OF  THE   SEBAMPOBE  MISSION.      [Chap.  HI. 

society.  There  was  as  little  religion  when  he  quitted 
office  as  when  he  entered  upon  it.  The  feeblest  of  ad- 
ministrations was  followed  by  the  most  energetic.  Lord 
Wellesley  possessed  that  stern  energy  of  purpose  which, 
united  as  it  was  in  his  case  with  large  and  lofty  views, 
irresistibly  carries  society  along  in  its  own  course.  He 
had  none  of  that  warm  religious  fervour  which  adorned 
the  character  of  his  predecessor,  but,  like  other  statesmen 
of  Mr.  Pitt's  school,  he  considered  religion  as  the  safeguard 
of  social  order  and  the  most  effectual  promoter  of  human 
happiness,  and  he  determined  to  throw  the  whole  weight 
of  his  Government  into  the  scale.  After  he  had  been  six 
months  in  the  country  he  issued  a  proclamation  to  forbid 
horse-racing  and  gambling  on  Sunday.  He  stated  that 
the  profanation  of  the  day  set  apart  for  religious  devotions 
was  destructive  of  the  good  order  and  morals  of  society, 
and  contrary  to  the  duties  and  ordinances  of  the  Protestant 
religion.  He  therefore  ordered  all  magistrates  and  officers 
commanding  military  stations  to  prohibit  these  practices, 
and  announced  that  all  persons  so  offending  should  forfeit 
the  protection  of  Government  and  be  sent  back  forthwith 
to  Europe.  He  issued  a  proclamation  likewise  against  the 
publication  of  Sunday  newspapers.  He  never  failed  to 
appear  in  his  seat  at  church,  as  the  representative  of  the 
British  Government.  He  assured  Mr.  Brown  that  he  .was 
resolved  to  show  that  the  "Christian  religion  was  the 
religion  of  the  State." 

.  It  was  chiefly  with  this  view  that  he  appointed  a  day  of 
general  thanksgiving  for  the  recent  success  of  the  British 
The  tame  »ub-  arms  *n  Mysore,  and  thus  combined  the  solem- 
Ject#  nities  of  religion  with  the  commemoration  of 

the  first  triumph  of  his  administration.  He  determined 
that  the  ceremonial  of  the  day  should  lack  none  of  that 
pomp  which  might  demonstrate  that  the  State  had  a  reli- 
gion. On  the  6th  of  February,  1800,  the  Chief  Justice 
and  the  other  Judges  of  the  Supreme  Court,  the  Com- 
mander-in-Chief, the  Members  of  Council,  and  the  chief 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1800.]  HISTORY  OP  THE   SEBAMPORB   MISSION.  127 

public  officers,  civil  and  military,  assembled  at  six  in  the 
morning  at  Government  House.  The  Governor-General 
then-  proceeded  down  the  street,  which  was  lined  with 
troops,  to  the  church,  at  the  entrance  of  which  he  was 
received  by  the  two  chaplains,  Mr.  Brown  and  Mr.  Bu- 
chanan. During  the  chanting  of  the  Te  Deura,  a  royal 
salute  was  fired  from  the  ramparts  of  Fort  William ;  the 
guns  of  the  fort  were  responded  to  by  several  of  the  ships 
in  the  river ;  and  thus  the  inauguration  of  the  Christian 
religion,  as  the  religion  of  the  rulers  of  British  India,  was 
announced  by  the  booming  of  cannon  and  the  parade  of 
two  thousand  troops.  Mr.  Buchanan  preached  a  sermon 
suited  to  the  occasion,  copies  of  which  were  sent  to  every 
station  by  order  of  Government ;  and  the  thanks  of  the 
Supreme  Council  were  officially  conveyed  to  him  for  his 
services  on  this  occasion.  These  religious  proceedings 
in  a  community  so  strongly  tinctured  with  the  spirit  of 
scepticism  appear  to  have  excited  a  feeling  of  astonish- 
ment, and,  in  some  instances,  even  of  resentment ;  but,  on 
the  whole,  the  infidel  society  of  Calcutta  yielded  a  decent 
acquiescence  in  this  the  first  public  thanksgiving  which 
had  been  offered  to  the  Almighty  since  the  birth  of  our 
Indian  empire.  It  even  became  fashionable  to  acknow- 
ledge that  "  religion  was  a  very  proper  thing,  and  that  no 
civilised  State  could  subsist  without  it."  At  the  same 
hour  when  these  services  were  conducted  with  imperial 
splendour  in  Calcutta,  the  Serampore  missionaries,  in  a 
more  humble  form,  were  offering  their  thanks  to  Almighty 
God  for  the  extension  of  British  power  and  influence, 
which  they  considered  essential  to  the  spread  of  Divine 
truth  in  India.  They  announced  that  on  the  day  ap- 
pointed for  a  general  thanksgiving  Divine  service  would 
be  held  in  the  little  room  they  had  appropriated  as  a 
chapel.  The  Danish  governor  and  the  members  of  his 
little  council  manifested  the  absence  of  all  national 
prejudice,  and  their  sympathy  with  British  prosperity,  by 
attending  the  chapel  on  this  occasion,  when  Mr.  Carey 


Digitized  by 


Google 


128  HISTORY  OP  THE   SEBAMPOHE  MISSION.      [Chap.  m. 

preached  an  appropriate  sermon.     Within  ten  months  of 
this  time  Copenhagen  was  bombarded  by  British  cannon. 

On  his  arrival  at  Serampore,  Mr.  Carey  rented  a  little 
house  at  some  distance  from  the  residence  of  his  brethren ; 

but  neither  of  the  houses  occupied  by  the  mis- 
h^tasirin-   sionaries  was  adapted  for  the  operations  which 

they  contemplated.  There  was  no  convenience 
for  the  erection  of  the  press,  the  first  of  their  wants,  or 
for  the  establishment  of  a  school.  Serampore  was  at  the 
time  the  seat  of  an  active  commerce,  and  the  river  was 
enlivened  by  six  or  seven  merchantmen.  The  town, 
moreover,  was  the  only  refuge  for  debtors  left  on  the 
banks  of  the  Hooghly ;  the  two  other  foreign  settlements 
of  Chandernagore  and  Chinsurah  having  been  occupied 
by  the  English  in  the  course  of  the  war.  There  was  no 
insolvent  court  in  Calcutta,  and  the  bankrupts  of  the 
metropolis  flocked  to  Serampore.  From  these  causes 
house-rent  was  extravagantly  high,  and  no  premises  suited 
to  the  necessities  of  the  mission  could  be  obtained  under  120 
rupees  a  month,  or  1440  rupees  a  year,  which  was  one  half 
the  sum  which  Mr.  Fuller  allotted  for  their  support.  They 
were  obliged,  therefore,  at  once  to  purchase  a  house  and 
premises  ;  and  within  a  week  after  the  arrival  of  Mr.  Carey 
a  house  was  bought  for  6000  rupees,  though  they  had  not 
half  the  amount  at  their  disposal.  It  was  with  difficulty 
they  could  raise  funds  at  a  time  when  Government  was 
borrowing  money  at  12  per  cent.  The  exchange,  more- 
over, stood  at  2s.  6d.  the  rupee,  and  it  was  only  with 
great  difficulty  that  bills  could  be  disposed  of  at  that  rate. 
The  house  was  paid  for  by  the  appropriation  of  the  funds 
which  the  missionaries  had  brought  out  for  their  subsist- 
ence, by  bills  on  England,  and  by  a  loan.  The  house 
afforded  moderate  accommodation  for  all  the  missionary 
families,  and  contained  a  large  hall,  which  was  devoted  to 
public  worship,  and  now  forms  the  mission  chapel,  in 
which  the  praises  of  God  have  resounded  for  more  than 
half  a  century.      A  side  building  was  fitted  up  as   a 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1800.]  HISTORY  OP  THE  SERAMPOBB  MISSION.  129 

printing  office,  and  a  large  plot  of  ground  in  the  rear  of 
the  house  was  made  over  to  Mr.  Carey  for  a  botanical 
garden,  which  he  soon  stocked  with  plants  from  all  quar- 
ters, till  it  became  second  in  extent  only  to  the  Company's 
botanical  garden.  After  completing  the  payment  for  the 
house,  the  missionaries  had  only  200/.  left  for  the  support 
of  six  families ;  but  they  hoped  that,  with  rigid  economy, 
it  would  be  found  sufficient  for  six  months.  The  house 
was  bought  in  the  name  of  the  Society,  and  the  mission- 
aries  constituted  themselves  trustees.  Thus,  in  the  first 
month  after  the  mission  had  been  established  at  Seram- 
pore,  were  the  missionaries  obliged  to  abandon  those 
limited  and  economical  views  which  the  Society  in  Eng- 
land, not  less  than  Mr.  Carey,  had  been  accustomed  to 
associate  with  their  enterprise,  and  to  launch  out  into  a 
liberal  expenditure  corresponding  with  the  enlarged  scale 
on  which  they  were  about  to  carry  on  their  operations. 

Their  first  attention  was  given  to  the  printing  office. 
The  press  brought  from  Mudnabatty  was  set  up,  and  the 
types  arranged.  With  the  exception  of  two  E.ubiiihment  of 
books  of  the  Old  Testament,  the  translation  of  thepreM- 
the  whole  Bible  into  Bengalee  had  been  completed.  The 
missionaries  determined  to  begin  with  the  printing  of  the 
New  Testament.  Mr.  Ward  set  the  first  types  with  his 
own  hands,  and  presented  the  first  sheet  of  the  Testament 
to  Mr.  Carey  on  the  18th  of  March.  The  feeling  of  exul- 
tation with  which  it  was  contemplated,  and  the  bright 
visions  of  future  success  which  the  sight  of  it  kindled,  may 
be  more  easily  imagined  than  described.  After  their  arrival 
in  Serampore,  Mr.  Carey  and  Mr.  Fountain  were  daily 
engaged,  morning  and  afternoon,  in  addressing  the  heathen 
in  the  town  and  its  neighbourhood,  in  company  with  Mr. 
Marshman  and  Mr.  Ward,  who  applied  to  the  study  of 
the  language  with  great  diligence.  In  reference  to  one  of 
these  visits,  Mr.  Ward  writes :  "  This  morning  brother 
Carey  and  I  took  our  stand  like  two  ballad  singers,  and 
began  singing  in  Bengalee  before  one  of  SeeVs  temples, 

VOL.  I.  K 


Digitized  by 


Google 


130  HISTORY  OF  THE   SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  III. 

under  a  canopy  which  had  been  spread  for  his  worshippers. 
Out  of  twenty  or  thirty  scarcely  one  was  found  able  to  read." 
These  addresses  to  the  heathen  at  all  places  of  public  re- 
sort brought  a  constant  succession  of  visitors  to  the 
Mission  House,  and  no  small  portion  of  Mr.  Carey's  time 
was  occupied  in  answering  their  objections,  and  explain- 
ing the  principles  of  Christian  truth  to  them.  The  24th  of 
April  was  appointed  a  day  of  thanksgiving  for  the  establish- 
ment of  the  mission  under  such  favourable  circumstances. 
After  the  termination  of  the  services,  the  missionaries 
organised  a  church,  and  elected  Mr.  Carey  pastor,  and 
Mr.  Fountain  and  Mr.  Marshman  deacons.  Before  they 
separated,  they  voted  an  address  of  thanks  to  the  governor 
for  the  support  they  had  received  from  him  and  the 
Danish  authorities  at  a  period  when,  but  for  this  kindness, 
three  of  their  number  would  have  been  sent  back  to 
England.  The  address  was  presented  to  him  the  next  day, 
when  he  was  pleased  to  assure  them  that  the  promise  of 
support  he  had  given  was  not  intended  as  a  compliment, 
but  would  be  rendered  effectual  to  the  full  extent  of  his 
power.  They  likewise  presented  the  governor  with  an 
address  to  his  Danish  Majesty,  Frederick  the  Sixth,  in 
which  they  expressed  their  warmest  gratitude  for  the 
generous  protection  which  bis  servants  at  Serampore  had 
extended  to  them,  and  entreated  his  gracious  permission  to 
continue  in  the  settlement  and  prosecute  their  labours. 
To  this  address,  a  reply  was  received  the  next  year,  in 
which  his  Majesty  signified  the  gratification  he  felt  at  the 
establishment  of  the  mission  under  the  Danish  flag,  and 
informed  the  missionaries  that  he  had  taken  their  institution 
under  his  especial  protection,  and  instructed  the  local 
authorities  to  afford  them  at  all  times  all  the  assistance  in 
their  power. 

On  the  lst.of  May,  1800,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Marshman  opened 
two  boarding  schools  to  assist  in  the  support  of  the  mission, 
which  gave  an  addition  of  100  rupees  in  the  first  month  to 
their  slender  resources,  and  before  the  close  of  the  year 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1800.]  HISTOBY  OF  THE  SEBAMPORB  MISSION.  131 

yielded  300  rupees  a  month.  Under  their  able  manage- 
ment the  schools  gradually  rose  in  repute,  and  became  the 
most  popular  and  remunerative  establishments 
of  the  kind  at  the  Presidency,  and  thus  formed  E£82jKX£ 
the  mainstay  of  the  mission .  The  newly  arrived 
missionaries  were  now  passing  through  the  first  ordeal  of 
the  scorching  month  of  May,  but  without  any  of  those 
contrivances  by  which  the  severity  of  the  heat  is  mitigated 
at  the  present  time.  The  house  they  occupied  had  been 
built  in  the  most  primitive  style  of  European  architecture 
in  India,  with  wooden  shutters,  instead  of  the  modern 
luxury  of  Venetian  windows,  and  a  lattice  work  of  cane  to 
admit  the  light  and  the  air.  There  was  no  punkah — or 
swinging  fan — in  the  house.  Indeed,  the  punkah,  which 
is  now  considered  quite  as  essential  to  comfort  as  a  fire 
is  in  England,  had  then  been  only  recently  invented  by 
the  Dutch  governor  at  Chinsurah  ;  and  the  church  in 
Calcutta,  which  the  Governor-General  himself  attended, 
was  without  one.  "  We  have  felt  the  greatest  heat,"  writes 
Mr.  Ward,  "  we  have  ever  experienced,  and  though  we 
perspire  profusely,  it  neither  impedes  business  nor  injures 
health.  Our  brethren  preached  as  usual  four  times  on  the 
Sunday."  On  the  1st  of  June  they  opened  a  vernacular 
school  for  native  youth,  which  soon  numbered  forty  pupils. 
Even  at  that  early  period,  the  natives  appear  to  have 
manifested  the  same  anxiety  which  they  do  at  present  to 
obtain  for  their  children  the  advantages  which  a  knowledge 
of  English  is  supposed  to  confer.  In  a  letter  written  about ' 
this  time  to  the  Society  in  England,  the  missionaries  say : 
"  Commerce  has  raised  new  thoughts  and  awakened  new 
energies,  so  that  hundreds,  if  we  could  skilfully  teach  them 
gratis,  would  crowd  to  learn  the  English  language.  We 
hope  this  may  be  in  our  power  some  time,  and  may  be  a 
happy  means  of  diffusing  the  knowledge  of  the  Gospel.  At 
present  our  hands  are  quite  full."  About  the  middle  of 
this  year,  Ram-bosoo,  who  had  consorted  for  many  years 
with  Mr.  Thomas,  and  was  for  some  time  Mr.  Carey's 


Digitized  by 


Google 


132  HISTORY  OP  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  in. 

moonshee,  hearing  of  the  establishment  of  the  mission  at 
Serampore,  came  upon  a  visit  to  the  missionaries.  He  had 
a  clearer  perception  of  the  truths  of  Christianity  than  any- 
other  native  at  the  time,  and  he  regarded  the  popular  su- 
perstitions of  the  country  with  philosophical  contempt,  but 
he  did  not  possess  sufficient  resolution  to  renounce  his 
family  connections,  and  avow  himself  a  Christian.  "  All 
the  ties,"  writes  Mr.  Marshman,  "  that  twine  about  the 
heart  of  a  father,  a  husband,  a  child,  a  neighbour,  must  be 
torn  and  broken  before  a  man  can  give  himself  to  Christ." 
These  ties  were  stronger  than  the  convictions  of  Ram-bosoo. 
He  was  one  of  the  most  accomplished  Bengalee  scholars  of 
the  day,  and  wielded  the  power  of  sarcasm  inherent  in 
the  language  with  singular  effect.  At  the  request  of  Mr. 
Carey,  he  compiled  a  religious  tract,  the  first  which  had 
ever  appeared,  called  the  "  Gospel  Messenger,"  which  was 
intended  to  introduce  the  doctrines  of  the  Gospel  to  his 
printing  the  fint  fellow-couptrymen.  At  the  same  time  he  com- 
tracL  posed  another  pamphlet  in  which  he  exposed 

the  absurdities  of  Hindooism  and  the  pretensions  of  its 
priesthood  with  great  severity.  Large  editions  of  these 
papers  were  printed  and  circulated,  and  produced  no  little 
sensation  in  the  native  community.  But  like  those  who 
assisted  in  the  construction  of  the  ark,  and  yet  obtained 
no  asylum  in  it,  Ram-bosoo,  though  he  contributed  largely 
to  the  introduction  of  Christian  truth  into  the  country, 
never  himself  sought  refuge  in  the  doctrines  of  the  Gospel. 
The  expenses  of  the  press  soon  absorbed  the  slender 
resources  of  the  missionaries,  and  before  the  year  was 
proposal!  for  half  completed,  they  were  crippled  for  means 
&n2llethNew  to  carry  on  their  labours.  In  this  dilemma, 
Tmmmmt.  t^ey  adopted  the  bold  and  somewhat  hazardous 
course  of  appealing  to  the  British  public  in  Calcutta  for 
support,  though  six  months  only  had  elapsed  since 
government  had  evinced  the  strongest  opposition  to  their 
undertaking,  and  they  were  now  residing  under  a  foreign 
flag,  in    defiance    of   the    English    authorities.      They 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1800.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPOBE  MISSION.  133 

announced,  in  the  Calcutta  journals,  that  they  had 
established  a  press  at  Serampore,  and  commenced  print- 
ing the  Sacred  Scriptures  in  the  Bengalee  language, 
and  they  invited  their  fellow-countrymen  to  assist  them 
in  this  work  by  a  subscription  of  two  gold  mohurs — 
about  four  pounds  sterling — for  a  copy  of  the  Bengalee 
Bible.  As  soon  as  the  notification  caught  the  eye  of 
Lord  Wellesley,  his  apprehensions  were  aroused.  He 
considered  it  vain  for  him  to  have  placed  the  press  in 
Calcutta  under  the  most  stringent  restrictions,  if  a  press 
was  allowed  to  exist  in  the  immediate  vicinity  of  the  me- 
tropolis, in  a  foreign  settlement,  over  the  operations  of 
which  it  was  out  of  his  power  to  exercise  any  kind  of 
control.  His  first  impulse  was  to  address  the  Danish 
authorities  on  the  subject,  with  a  view  to  the  immediate 
suppression  of  the  press ;  but,  after  a  little  reflection,  he 
thought  it  more  advisable  to  consult  Mr.  Brown,  who 
was  supposed  to  be  well  acquainted  with  the  views  of  the 
missionaries.  Mr.  Brown  assured  him  that  the  press  at 
Serampore  was  not  established  with  any  sinister  object, 
but  simply  to  aid  in  the  spiritual  instruction  of  the 
natives,  and  that  the  missionaries  had  recently  refused' 
to  publish  a  political  pamphlet  containing  animadversions 
on  the  British  government.  Lord  Wellesley  said  that  he 
was  personally  favourable  to  the  conversion  of  the 
heathen ;  but  inquired  whether  it  would  be  safe  to  circu- 
late the  Bible,  which  taught  the  doctrine  of  Christian 
equality,  without  the  safeguard  of  a  commentary.  Mr. 
Brown  replied  that  he  himself  would  be  responsible  for 
all  the  mischief  the  Bible  might  do  in  India ;  he,  moreover, 
urged  that  the  Bengalee  New  Testament,  which  the 
missionaries  were  then  printing,  would  be  of  great  utility 
in  the  College  of  Fort  William,  which  Lord  Wellesley  was 
about  to  establish.  The  appeal  to  the  public  brought  in 
about  1500  rupees,  which  afforded  the  missionaries  a  very 
seasonable  relief.  "  Such,"  writes  Mr.  W#rd,  "  are  the 
jealousies  which  our  press  excites  in  the  mind  of  the 

E.  3 


Digitized  by 


Google 


134  HISTORY  OP  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.       [Chap.HL 

British  government,  though  we  are  under  the  jurisdiction 
of  a  foreign  power.  How  long  would  it  have  been  allowed 
to  exist  at  Mudnabatty  ?  "  This  was  the  last  occasion  on 
which  Lord  Wellesley  manifested  any  feeling  of  alarm  at 
the  proceedings  of  the  missionaries  at  Serampore.  When 
he  became  assured  that  they  scrupulously  abstained  from 
intermeddling  with  any  political  questions,  and  confined 
their  attention  to  the  instruction  of  the  heathen,  he  ex- 
hibited every  disposition  to  foster  rather  than  to  thwart 
their  enterprise,  though  nearly  all  the  influential  members 
of  his  government  were  known  to  be  violently  opposed  to 
it. 

On  the  20th  of  August,  another  missionary  labourer 
was  cut  off  by  disease.  Mr.  Fountain,  who  had  laboured 
Death  of  Mr.  *n  conjunction  with  Mr.  Carey,  for  four  years, 
Fountain.  at  Mudnabatty,  came  down  to  Serampore,  on 
the  arrival  of  the  "  Criterion,"  and  was  married  to  Miss 
Tidd,  who  had  accompanied  the  missionaries  from  England 
in  that  vessel.  His  feeble  frame  and  constitution  were  ill 
suited  to  the  fervid  climate  of  Bengal,  and  he- was  also 
devoid  of  that  mental  elasticity  which  distinguished  the 
•band  who  were  henceforward  designated  the  Serampore 
Missionaries.  He  had  mastered  the  colloquial  Bengalee, 
and  pursued  his  missionary  labours  with  laudable  diligence 
and  zeal.  He  was  seized  with  dysentery  at  the  beginning 
of  the  rains,  and  resolved  to  return  to  Dinagepore  for 
change  of  air,  and  also  with  the  intention  of  resuming  the 
missionary  labours  in  which  he  and  Mr.  Carey  had  been 
occupied  in  the  neighbourhood,  supporting  himself  by  the 
superintendence  of  an  indigo  factory.  He  sank  under  the 
complaint  on  the  20th  of  August,  at  the  house  of  Mr. 
Fernandez.  His  corpse  was  escorted  to  the  grave,  as  was 
then  generally  the  custom,  by  a  guard  of  native  soldiers, 

and  the  judge  of  the  station  read  the  Church 
ES*  ^™m'   °^  England  service  over  his  grave.     On  the  1st 

of  October,  Mr.  Marshman  delivered  his  first 
address  to  the  natives  in  Bengalee  within  a  twelvemonth 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1800.]  HISTORY  OP  THE  SERAMPORB  MISSION.  135 

after  his  arrival  in  the  country,  and  three  weeks  after  Mr. 
Ward  went  out  alone  to  preach  to  them.  Mr.  Marshman's 
knowledge  of  the  colloquial  tongue,  however,  never 
equalled  that  of  his  colleague,  who  used  it  with  a  degree 
of  fluency  and  point  which  has  seldom  been  attained  by  a 
foreigner.  While  the  missionaries  were  carrying  the 
Bengalee  New  Testament  through  the  press,  they  printed 
500  additional  copies  of  the  Gospel  of  Matthew ;  and  the 
distribution  of  these  books  and  of  Ram-bosoo's  tracts 
created  a  great  stir  in  the  country.  In  their  addresses 
to  the  heathen,  there  was  much  to  discourage  and  little  to 
animate  them.  "  There  is  a  great  deal  of  patience  and 
self-denial  required,"  says  Mr.  Ward,  "in  collecting  our 
congregations,  and  bearing  with  all  their  interruptions 
and  wanderings.  You  stand  by  the  side  of  a  street  or 
lane,  a  man  passes,  you  ask  him  how  he  does,  or  whither 
he  is  going.  Sometimes  he  replies,  at  other  times  he  will 
go  on,  taking  no  notice .  of  you.  Sometimes  he  will  stay 
till  he  has  heard  your  message,  and  then  sets  off — if  he 
stops,  another  stops,  and  another,  and  so  on  till  a  congre- 
gation is  gathered.  When  you  are  in  the  middle  of  your 
discourse,  half  of  them  perhaps  sheer  off,  —  some  more 
come  —  a  Brahmin  interrupts  you,  'Why  cannot  the 
river  wash  from  sin  ? '  or  some  other  such  question.  Tell 
them  they  are  in  the  way  of  everlasting  ruin,  perhaps 
one  will  answer,  '  Sahib's  words  are  very  fine ;  Sahib 
knows  all  shasters ;  these  are  shaster  words.'  He  will  then 
make  his  salaam  and  depart.  I  suppose  brother  Carey  has 
preached  a  thousand  sermons  to  such  congregations  as 
these." 

Mr.  Thomas  was  engaged  in  superintending  his  sugar » 
factory  in  Beerbhoom.     It  was  the  redeeming  point  in  his 
character  that,  amidst  his  various  secular  en- 
gagements, he  never  neglected  the  instruction    ^^Siuthe 
of  the  heathen ;  the  glaring  defects  of  his  cha- 
racter were  thus  in  a  great  measure  counterbalanced  by  his 


K  4 


Digitized  by 


Google 


136  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  IBL 

missionary  ardour.  He  visited  his  brethren  at  Serampore 
soon  after  their  arrival,  and  again  in  the  month  of  Octo- 
ber, X800,  bringing  with  him,  on  this  latter  occasion, 
Fukeer,  a  skilful  workman  on  his  establishment,  who  had 
been  led  under  the  influence  of  his  instructions  to  an- 
nounce his  determination  to  become  a  Christian.  On  the 
25th  of  November,  Fukeer  came  before  the  church  at  Seram- 
pore, and  gave  a  short,  simple,  and  satisfactory  account  of 
the  progress  of  his  spiritual  feelings,  and  offered  to  make 
an  open  profession  of  Christianity.  This  was  the  first 
native,  after  seven  years  of  severe  and  discouraging  exer- 
tion, who  had  come  up  to  the  point  of  avowing  himself  a 
Christian.  He  was  received  as  a  Christian  brother,  with 
feelings  of  indescribable  emotion.  uWe  all  stood  up," 
writes  Mr.  Ward,  "  and  sang  with  new  feelings,  *  Praise 
God,  from  whom  all  blessings  flow.'  Each  brother  shook 
Fukeer  by  the  hand.  The  rest  your  imagination  must 
supply."  On  this  day  of  "new  feelings,"  Mr.  Thomas 
was  called  to  set  the  arm  of  a  native  in  Serampore,  which 
had  been  dislocated.  After  the  operation  was  complete, 
Mr.  Thomas  began  to  discourse,  with  his  accustomed 
fervour,  on  the  folly  of  idolatry  and  the  superiority  of 
the  Christian  revelation.  The  man  appeared  to  be  deeply 
affected  by  the  discourse,  and  shed  tears.  His  name  was 
Krishnu,  by  trade  a  carpenter,  and  the  brother  of  Goluk, 
who  had  repeatedly  resorted  to  the  Mission  House,  and 
engaged  in  the  daily  discussions  with  the  heathen,  and 
was  classed  among  the  number  of  hopeful  inquirers. 
Two  days  after,  Krishnu  met  Mr.  Ward  and  Mr.  Felix 
Carey  (Mr.  Carey's  eldest  son)  in  the  street,  with  his  arm 
in  a  sling,  and  was  invited  to  visit  the  missionaries  for 
farther  instruction,  to  which  he  cheerfully  consented, 
remarking  that  they  had  not  only  relieved  him  from 
bodily  suffering,  but  had  brought  good  news  to  his  door. 
Fukeer,  who  had  been  received  as  a  candidate  for  baptism, 
now  proposed  to  return  to  Beerbhoom,  to  take  leave  of  his 
friends,  before  he  was  separated  from  them  for  ever.    Mr. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1800.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  137 

Thomas,  who  dreaded  their  influence  on  his  mind,  deter- 
mined to  accompany  him  to  the  district.  On  reaching  the 
factory,  Fukeer  requested  permission  to  go  to  the  house  of 
a  friend,  promising  to  return  in  three  days,  but  he  never 
came  back,  nor  were  any  tidings  ever  heard  of  him  again. 
Mr.  Thomas,  who  was  always  in  the  extreme  of  exultation 
or  despondency,  returned  to  Serampore  in  great  depression 
of  spirits.  On  his  arrival,  he  found  Mr.  Brunsdon  dan- 
gerously ill,  and  his  life  almost  despaired  of.  A  feeling 
of  deep  gloom  pervaded  the  missionary  circle,  and  Mr. 
Ward,  in  allusion  to  the  case,  notes  in  his  journal,  "  Shall 
we  lose  a  third  brother  in  little  more  than  a  year  ?  Have 
pity  on  us,  0  Lord!"  Under  the  able  treatment  of 
Mr.  Thomas,  the  disease  was  subdued,  but  Mr.  Brunsdon 
never  fully  regained  his  strength. 

The  discouragement  occasioned  by  the  defection  of 
Fukeer  was  overbalanced  by  the  steady  and  consistent 
conduct  of  Krishnu.  He  was  in  daily  inter-  Kri«houP«ii,ti» 
course  with  the  missionaries,  and  he  received  flr,toonTart- 
the  truths  of  the  Gospel,  not  only  with  avidity,  but  affec- 
tion. His  wife  and  daughter,  to  whom  he  communicated 
the  glad  tidings  which  had  warmed  his  own  heart,  ex- 
pressed their  determination  to  unite  with  him  in  em- 
bracing Christianity,  and  they  all  offered  themselves  as 
candidates  for  Christian  baptism.  It  was  a  season  of  high 
and  hallowed  enjoyment  for  the  missionaries.  In  writing 
on  the  subject,  Mr.  Ward  observes,  "  We  think  it  right  to 
make  many  allowances  for  ignorance,  and  for  a  state  of 
mind  the  fruit  of  a  corrupt  superstition;  we  therefore 
cannot  think  of  demanding  from  the  candidates  before 
baptism  more  than  a  profession  of  dependence  on  Christ, 
and  submission  to  Him  in  all  things.  Had  some  of  our 
brethren  with  their  supralapsarian  covenants  been  here, 
they  must  have  made  some  little  abatement  for  poor  Goluk 
and  Krishnu.  We  now  begin  to  talk  of  baptism.  We 
yesterday  fixed  on  the  spot,  before  our  gate  in  the  river. 
A  difficulty  has  been  started  that,  if  we  baptize  in  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


138  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.       [Chap.  HL 

river,  the  natives  will  think  we  suppose  there  is  something 
sacred  in  the  Ganges.  Others  reply  that  they  would 
rather  think  we  defiled  it  by  the  ordinance."  It  was 
therefore  determined  to  baptize  the  candidates  in  the 
river.  On  Monday,  the  22nd  of  December,  Goluk  and 
Krishnu  openly  renounced  their  caste,  by  sitting  down  to 
the  table  of  the  missionaries,  and  eating  with  them,  to  the 
great  surprise  of  the  servants.  "  Thus,"  again  writes  Mr. 
Ward,  "  the  door  of  faith  is  open  to  the  Hindoos,  and  who 
shall  shut  it  ?  Thus  is  the  chain  of  the  caste  broken,  and 
who  shall  mend  it  ?"  In  the  evening  Goluk,  Krishnu, 
and  his  wife  and  daughter,  came  before  the  church,  and 
narrated  the  progressive  steps  by  which  their  minds 
had  been  led  to  embrace  the  religion  of  Christ.  This 
season  of  delight,  however,  was  not  without  its  alloy. 
Mr.  Thomas,  who  was  present  on  the  occasion,  became 
frantic  with  joy.  It  was  seventeen  years  since  he  had 
commenced  his  labours  among  the  heathen,  and 
Jber^ItlOTSf,  the  fruition  of  his  hopes,  after  so  many  dis- 
mlnd*  appointments,    destroyed    the   balance   of  his 

mind,  and  he  began  to  exhibit  symptoms  of  insanity. 
Within  three  days  he  became  so  violent,  as  to  render  it 
necessary  to  place  him  under  restraint. 

The  report  that  Krishnu  had  thrown  up  his  caste,  and 
become  a"Feringee" — then  the  nickname  of  a  Chris- 
Diiturbuncein  *ian — spread  rapidly  through  the  town,  and 
serampore.  created  an  extraordinary  sensation.  The  next 
morning  a  mob  of  two  thousand  persons  collected  in  front 
of  his  house,  uttering  violent  imprecations  on  him.  They 
dragged  him  and  Goluk  to  the  magistrate's  house,  though 
without  any  specific  charge  to  bring  against  them.  The 
magistrate  commended  the  converts  for  having  renounced 
their  caste,  and  ordered  the  crowd  to  disperse.  Soon 
after  the  mob  brought  them  back,  and  accused  Krishnu  of 
having  refused  to  deliver  his  daughter  to  the  man  to 
whom  she  was  betrothed.  But  the  converts  were  again 
set  at  liberty,  and  the  girl  was  assured  that  she  should 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ftOO.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  139 

not  be  compelled  to  marry  against  her  will.  At  the  same 
time  the  governor  volunteered  to  protect  the  •missionaries 
from  all  interruption  in  the  approaching  administration  of 
the  rite  of  baptism,  and  placed  a  native  soldier  at  the  gate 
of  Krishnu's  house  to  prevent  any  molestation.  But  the 
missionaries  soon  found  that  their  hopes  had  been  too 
sanguine,  and  that  a  public  profession  of  a  foreign  creed, 
and  the  entire  abandonment  of  all  social  and  family  ties 
was  more  formidable  to  the  native  mind  than  they  had 
anticipated.  On  Saturday  morning  Erishnu  informed  them 
that  the  courage  of  Goluk  and  the  women  had  failed 
them,  and  that  they  were  desirous  of  postponing  their 
baptism  for  a  time ;  but  Krishnu  himself  remained  firm 
to  his  resolution. 

The  next  morning,  Sunday,  the  28th  of  December,  the  or- 
dinance of  baptism  was  performed  under  circumstances  the 
most  solemn  and  distressing.  The  missionaries  B^tum  of  a* 
assembled  with  the  congregation  in  the  chapel,  flr,tconTert- 
and  Mr.  Carey  walked  down  to  the  river  with  his  eldest 
son,  about  to  be  baptized,  and  Krishnu,  on  either  side  of  him. 
Mr.  Thomas,  who  was  confined  to  his  couch,  made  the  air 
resound  with  his  blasphemous  ravings ;  and  Mrs.  Carey, 
shut  up  in  her  own  room  on  the  opposite  side  of  the  path, 
poured  forth  the  most  painful  shrieks.  At  the  ghat,  or 
landing  stairs,  the  governor  and  several  Europeans,  and  a 
large  body  of  Portuguese,  and  a  dense  crowd  of  Hindoos 
and  Mahomedans,  were  waiting  to  witness  this  novel  cere* 
mony.  To  this  assembly  Mr.  Carey  explained  that  they 
did  not  believe  there  was  any  Divine  virtue  in  the  river, 
but  regarded  it  as  the  simple  element  of  water ;  that 
Krishnu  was  formerly  of  their  creed,  but  professed  by  the 
present  act  to  renounce  his  belief  in  the  gods,  and  to 
become  a  disciple  of  Jesus  Christ.  The  most  perfect 
silence  and  a  feeling  of  deep  solemnity  pervaded  the  whole 
assembly,  and  the  governor  was  melted  to  tears.  In  the 
afternoon  the  sacrament  of  the  Lord's  Supper  was  ad- 
ministered for  the  first  time  in  the  Bengalee  language. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


140  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPOEE  MISSION.       [Chap.  IH. 

This  public  celebration  of  the  ordinance  of  baptism  created 
great  excitement  through  the  town  and  neighbourhood, 
and  the  vernacular  school  was  deserted  by  every  lad. 
The  same  result  has  followed  at  subsequent  periods  the 
conversion  of  native  youths  in  the  missionary  seminaries ; 
and  it  is  only  at  the  present  day,  at  the  end  of  more  than 
half  a  century,  that  the  natives  of  Calcutta,  familiarised 
with  desertions  from  their  creed,  have  ceased  to  break  up 
the  schools  on  every  fresh  indication  of  danger.  Thus 
ended  the  first  and  most  eventful  year  of  the  Serampore 
mission.  It  was  on  a  review  of  these  various  transactions 
that  Mr.  Fuller  wrote  to  them,  "  You  were  anxious  to 
settle  up  the  country.  God  impelled  you  to  settle  where 
you  are,  that  the  Sacred  Scriptures  might  be  printed 
without  molestation;"  adding,  in  reference  to  Mr.  Marsh- 
man's  journal,  "  0  blessed  for  ever  be  the  Lord,  and 
blessed  be  you.  To  say  give  my  love  to  brother  Marshman 
is  feeble ;  if  I  could  send  my  soul  over  in  a  letter,  it  would 
come  and  mingle  with  your  souls,  with  your  labours,  your 
joys,  and  your  sorrows." 

At  the  beginning  of  1801  the  missionaries  had  the 
pleasure  of  baptizing  the  first  Hindoo  female,  Joyminee, 
Krishnu's  sister-in-law,  and  also  Mr.  Fernandez, 
ernan  ex.  ^  gentleman  of  Portuguese  extraction,  who  was 
engaged  in  the  manufacture  of  indigo  and  in  commercial  un- 
dertakings in  the  district  of  Dinagepore.  He  was  one  of  the 
little  band  of  Christians  in  that  neighbourhood  who  clus- 
tered around  Mr.  Carey  while  he  laboured  at  Mudnabatty. 
After  his  baptism  he  became  one  of  the  most  active  and 
successful  coadjutors  of  the  Serampore  Mission,  and  de- 
voted his  time  and  resources  for  more  than  thirty  years 
to  the  cause  of  missions  among  the  heathen  around  his 
residence,  and  was  instrumental  in  raising  a  large  and 
flourishing  native  church,  which  continued  under  his 
pastoral  care  to  the  time  of  his  death.  About  a  month  after, 
Krishnu's  wife,  and  Unnu,  another  female,  were  likewise 
baptized.     Mr.  Thomas,  who  had  been  for  a  month  in 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1800.]  HISTORY  OP  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  141 

the  lunatic  asylum  in  Calcutta,  recovered  his  reason,  and, 
after  spending  some  time  with  his  brethren  at  Serampore, 
returned  to  the  scene  of  his  former  labours  in  the  neigh- 
bourhood of  Dinagepore,  and  endeavoured  to  support 
himself  by  the  superintendence  of  an  indigo  factory,  and 
preached  with  even  more  than  his  wonted  vigour  to 
natives  and  Europeans. 

On  the  7th  of  February,  1801,  Mr.  Carey  enjoyed  the 
supreme  delight  of  receiving  the  last  sheet  of  the  Bengalee 
New  Testament  from  the  press.  The  types  of 
the  greater  portion  of  the  volume  were  set  by  t^v^rS£  * 
Mr.  Ward  himself,  assisted  by  Mr.  Felix  Carey 
and  by  Mr.  Brunsdon,  when  his  health  permitted  him  to 
labour.  With  such  diligence  had  the  work  been  pressed 
forward,  that  the  printing  of  the  volume,  under  every  dis- 
advantage, was  completed  within  nine  months.  The 
labour  which  it  involved,  however  severe,  was  lightened 
by  those  animating  feelings  which  the  rich  prospect  of  use- 
fulness inspired.  As  soon  as  the  first  copy  was  bound,  it 
was  placed  on  the  communion-table  in  the  chapel,  and  a 
meeting  was  held  of  the  whole  of  the  mission  family  and  the 
newly  baptized  heathen,  to  acknowledge  their  gratitude 
to  God  for  the  completion  of  this  important  work.  The 
expense  of  the  impression,  which  consisted  of  2000  copies, 
was  612Z.  Mr.  Brunsdon,  who  had  derived  great  benefit 
from  Mr.  Thomas's  medical  skill,  now  experienced  a 
relapse,  and  his  recovery  became  more  hopeless  from  day 
to  day.  In  the  prospect  of  being  deprived  of  his  services, 
Mr.  Carey  and  his  associates  sent  an  earnest  request  to 
the  Society  for  additional  missionaries,  remarking  that,  as 
it  was  their  wisdom  to  continue  together  in  one  family, 
"  those  amiable  dispositions  which  render  society  a  bless- 
ing, should  be  an  object  of  the  first  magnitude  in  the 
choice  of  a  missionary."  On  the  same  occasion  Mr.  Ward 
wrote  thus  to  a  friend :  — "  The  loss  of  brother  Brunsdon 
will  be  severely  felt.  Upon  the  life  of  brother  Marshman 
depends  half  our  support  from  the  school.     Upon  that  of 


Digitized  by 


Google 


142  HISTORY  07  THE  SERAMPORE   MISSION.      [Chap .  HI. 

brother  Carey  depends  the  translation,  and,  more  than  I 
can  describe.  I  am  happy  to  think  that,  if  I  die,  Felix 
Carey  will  be  able  to  print."  He  adds,  with  his  charac- 
teristic modesty,  "  I  think  there  are  too  many  encomiums 
on  your  last  missionaries  in  the  sixth  number  of  your 
Periodical  Accounts.  I  cannot  get  out  of  my  mind  #a 
public  show  while  I  read  these  accounts,  —  *  Very  fine  mis- 
sionaries to  be  seen  here,  walk  in,  brethren  and  sisters.' 
I  cannot  think  that  any  encomiums  of  this  sort  can  excite 
public  confidence,  or  produce  the  least  good." 

In  the  month  of  April,  1801,  Mr.  Carey  was  appointed 
teacher  of  Bengalee  in  the  College  of  Fort  William,  which 

had  been  established  by  Lord  Wellesley  in  the 
jgjjMiidS."  previous  year  in  Calcutta.     The  indispensable 

necessity  of  such  an  institution  appears  to  have 
been  forced  on  his  mind  as  soon  as  he  assumed  charge  of 
the  government  in  1798.  For  forty  years  previous  to 
this  period  the  East  India  Company  had  been  engaged  in 
administering  the  government  of  thirty  millions  of  peo- 
ple, and  in  political  negotiations  with  native  potentates; 
but  no  attempt  was  deemed  necessary  to  raise  the  quali- 
fications of  the  public  servants  and  fit  them  for  these 
responsibilities.  The  selection  and  education  of  the  mem- 
bers of  the  civil  service  were  regulated  by  the  same  prin- 
ciple which  had  been  adopted  when  they  had  no  higher 
duties  to  perform  than  to  count  bales  or  appraise  muslins. 
The  men  who  were  to  undertake  the  important  office  of 
judges,  magistrates,  collectors,  and  ambassadors  were  con- 
sidered sufficiently  qualified  for  their  duties  if  they  were 
versed  in  the  mysteries  of  the  counting-house,  wrote  a 
legible  hand,  and  understood  book-keeping  by  double  entry. 
Some  of  the  writers,  as  the  young  civilians  were  called, 
consisted,  however,  of  youths  who  had  been  educated  at 

the  public  schools  in  England ;  but  they  were 
uw  *  **  <**-    withdrawn  from  their  studies  at  the  premature 

age  of  fourteen  or  fifteen,  before  their  educa- 
tion was  completed.     No  arrangements  were  made  by  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1800.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMFOAB  MISSION.  148 

local  government  to  prepare  the  civilians,  after  their 
arrival  in  Calcutta,  for  the  discharge  of  the  important 
duties  which  were  to  devolve  on  them  ;  and  they  were 
nominated  to  some  of  the  highest  posts  of  government 
without  any  evidence  of  their  qualifications  for  them. 
Some  were  sent,  on  their  arrival,  into  the  interior  of  the 
country,  and  placed  as  assistants  in  various  departments. 
In  too  many  instances,  their  superiors  in  office,  obtaining 
no  benefit  from  their  services,  left  them  without  occupa- 
tion, and  many  gave  up  their  time  to  those  enjoyments 
which  their  position  enabled  them  to  command,  without 
making  any  effort  to  prepare  themselves  for  public  duty. 
They  remained  sunk  in  indolence  until  they  rose,  by  the 
tide  of  seniority,  to  situations  of  public  trust.  Those  who 
were  attached  to  offices  in  Calcutta,  were,  in  accord- 
ance with  the  express  and  repeated  injunctions  of  the 
Court  of  Directors,  employed  in  copying  papers;  a  me- 
chanical duty  which  might  have  been  better  performed  by 
a  native  or  Portuguese  clerk.  Lord  Wellesley,  in  his 
College  minute,  remarks  that  "  the  civilians  had  thus,  at 
the  close  of  two  or  three  years,  lost  the  fruits  of  their 
European  studies,  without  having  gained  any  useful  know- 
ledge of  Asiatic  literature  or  business.  Those  whose  dis- 
positions lead  them  to  idleness  and  dissipation,  find  greater 
temptations  to  indulgence  and  extravagance  at  the  Presi- 
dency than  in  the  provinces,  and  many  instances  occur  in 
which  they  fall  into  irretrievable  courses  of  gaming  and 
vice,  and  totally  destroy  their  health  and  fortune." 

The  anomalies  of  this  lax  system  could  not  fail  to 
attract  the  attention  of  so  eminent  a  statesman  as  Lord 
Wellesley.     After  he  had  been  seven  months 

.1.1  i     ..  i  •  •     •  Lord  Weltetlcy 

in  the  country,  he  announced  it  as  his  opinion  jgft"*"11* 
that  no  civil  servant  should  be  nominated  to 
certain  offices  of  trust  and  responsibility  until  it  was 
ascertained  that  he  was  sufficiently  acquainted  with  the 
laws  and  regulations  of  government,  and  the  languages 
of  the  country.     He  allowed  the  young  men  two  years 


Digitized  by 


Google 


144  HISTORY  OF  THE   SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  III. 

to  acquire  these  qualifications,  and  fixed  January,  1801, 
as  the  period,  after  which  no  appointment  would  be  given 
except  to  those  who  had  passed  an  examination  in  the  native 
languages.  Mr.  Gilchrist  was  at  the  time  the  most 
eminent  Hindoostanee  scholar  in  Calcutta,  and  Lord  Wel- 
lesley  encouraged  him  to  establish  lectures,  and  directed 
the  civilians  to  attend  them.  Four  days  after  the  issue  of 
this  notification,  he  embarked  for  Madras  to  superintend 
military  operations  against  Tippoo  Sultan.  On  his  return 
to  Calcutta,  he  appointed  a  committee  to  ascertain  the 
progress  made  by  Mr.  Gilchrist's  pupils,  and  was  induced 
by  their  report  to  carry  into  immediate  effect  the  esta- 
blishment of  a  collegiate  institution  which  he  had  long 
been  contemplating,  and  in  which  "  their  studies,  the  dis- 
cipline of  their  education,  their  habits  of  life,  their 
manners  and  morals,  should  be  so  ordered  and  regulated  as 
to  maintain  a  sufficient  correspondence  between  their 
qualifications  and  their  duties." 

The  range  of  studies  marked  out  for  the  students  in  the 
college  were  very  extensive.  It  embraced  the  modern 
languages  of  Europe,  the  Greek,  Latin,  and 
•tSdi^ofthe  English  classics;  geography  and  mathematics, 
general  history,  ancient  and  modern,  natural 
history,  botany,  chemistry  and  astronomy,  ethics  and 
jurisprudence,  the  law  of  nations  and  of  England  ;  and,  in 
reference  to  Indian  studies,  the  Arabic,  Persian,  Sanskrit, 
Hindoostanee,  Bengalee,  Teloogoo,  Mahratta,  Tamul,  and 
Canarese  languages,  and  the  history  and  antiquities  of 
Hindoostan  and  the  Deccan.  It  was  the  design  of  Lord 
Wellesley  to  assemble  the  young  civilians  from  all  the 
Presidencies  at  this  central  college  in  Calcutta,  to  complete 
their  public  education  under  a  uniform  system  of  study 
and  discipline.  No  promotion  was  to  be  given  in  the 
public  service  throughout  India  in  any  branch  of  the 
service  held  by  civilians  except  through  the  channel  of 
the  college.  To  check  the  course  of  extravagance,  which 
was  the  bane  of  the  service,  it  was  provided  that  no  civilian 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1801.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  145 

who  was  in  debt  should,  after  a  given  period,  be  admitted 
into  the  college ;  at  the  same  time,  means  were  devised  for 
liquidating  the  debts  which  they  had  already  incurred. 
The  proficiency  required  of  the  students  was  fixed  at  a 
high  standard;  and,  before  any  civilian  could  obtain  a 
degree,  he  was  required  to  demonstrate  his  knowledge  of 
the  native  languages  by  holding — in  regard  to  the  service 
in  Bengal — four  disputations  in  the  Persian  or  Bengalee 
language  before  all  Calcutta,  in  "an  august  assembly, 
comprised  of  the  natives  of  rank  and  learning,  rajahs, 
foreign  ministers,  pundits,  and  moonshees."  Lord  Wel- 
lesley  proposed  to  erect  a  spacious  and  magnificent  edifice 
for  the  institution  in  the  immediate  neighbourhood  of 
Calcutta,  at  Garden  Reach,  suitable  for  the  accommodation 
of  all  the  professors  and  five  hundred  students ;  with  a 
public  hall,  library,  chapel,  and  other  requisite  apart- 
ments. The  College  was  to  be  considered  one  of  the  most 
important  departments  of  the  state ;  and  the  senior  mem- 
bers of  government  were  required,  by  virtue  of  their 
office,  to  take  a  share  in  its  management.  The  Rev. 
David  Brown,  the  senior  chaplain,  was  appointed  Provost, 
and  to  him  was  entrusted  the  duty  of  watching  over 
the.  morals  and  conduct  of  the  students.  The  Rev. 
Claudius  Buchanan  was  nominated  Vice-provost,  and 
regulated  the  course  of  their  studies;  while  the  in- 
ternal management  of  the  institution  was  placed  in  the 
hands  of  Mr.  George  Barlow,  the  senior  member  of 
council.  It  was  to  the  sound  judgment  and  unwearied 
exertions  of  Mr.  Buchanan  and  Mr.  Barlow  that  the  Col- 
lege was  indebted  for  that  high  state  of  efficiency  which  it 
so  speedily  acquired.  Lord  Wellesley  was  aware  that  the 
most  plausible  and  strenuous  objection  advanced  against 
his  college  in  Leadenhall  Street  would  be  on  the  score  of 
expense ;  and  he  contrived,  by  various  means,  to  anticipate 
this  obstacle  without  encroaching  on  the  public  resources. 
In  the  despatch  proposing  the  institution  for  the  ap- 
probation of  #the  Court  of  Directors,    he   stated    that, 

VOL,  I.  L 


Digitized  by 


Google 


146  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPOBE  MISSION.      [Chat.  HI. 

although  the  sources  of  income  which  he  had  devised 
would,  according  to  his  calculation,  be  found  sufficient  for 
the  present  exigencies  of  the  College,  yet,  as  the  institution 
was  "  intended  to  establish  the  British  empire  in  India, 
on  the  solid  foundations  of  ability,  integrity,  virtue,  and 
religion,  it  would  produce  a  most  salutary  impression 
throughout  the  country  if  they  were  immediately  to 
endow  it  with  an  annual  rent-charge  on  the  public 
revenue." 

Such  was  the  grand  institution  which  Lord  Wellesley 
projected,  to  qualify  the  public  functionaries  for  their 
Defend  of  the  official  duties.  It  was  the  noblest  and  most 
coUe8C'  comprehensive  plan  of  usefulness  which  had 

been  devised  since  the  factory  had  grown  into  an  empire, 
and  it  exhibited  in  the  strongest  light  the  master  mind  of 
its  author.  It  embodied  a  sound  and  important  principle, 
and  the  principle  has  survived  the  abolition  of  the  in- 
stitution. When  the  plan  of  the  College  was  mature, 
Lord  Wellesley,  in  that  spirit  of  independence  which 
marked  his  proceedings,  and  which  —  however  palliated 
by  the  circumstances  of  the  time,  when  communication 
'with  England  was  so  uncertain — rendered  him  peculiarly 
obnoxious  to  the  Court  of  Directors,  proceeded  at  once  to 
establish  the  Institution.  On  the  9th  of  July,  1800,  he 
brought  forward  his  proposition  for  the  first  time  in 
council,  and  induced  his  colleagues  to  unite  with  him  in 
recommending  the  subject  to  the  Directors.  The  next 
day  he  placed  on  record  his  elaborate  minute  on  the 
College,  a  document  of  permanent  interest.  At  the  same 
sitting  the  council  passed  the  resolution  for  the  immediate 
establishment  of  the  College  of  Fort  William ;  but  as  Lord 
Wellesley  was  desirous,  with  a  touch  of  pardonable  vanity, 
of  associating  this  great  undertaking  with  the  first  military 
triumph  of  his  administration  in  Mysore,  which  in  his 
opinion  "had  established  the  ascendancy  of  the  British 
power  over  all  the  states  of  India,"  he  directed  that  the 
foundation  of  the  college  should  bear  the  date  of  the  4th 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1801.]  HISTORY  OW  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  147 

of  May,  1800,  the  first  anniversary  of  the  decisive  and 
glorious  victory  obtained  by  the  British  arms  at  Seringa- 
patam.  The  medals  struck  to  commemorate  the  institu- 
tion of  the  College  bore  that  date,  and  presented  on  the 
obverse  a  beautiful  engraving  of  Tippoo's  capital.  At  the 
close  of  the  year  a  notification  was  issued  throughout  India, 
announcing  the  establishment  of  the  College,  and  inviting 
men  of  learning  in  its  various  provinces  to  proceed  to 
Calcutta  and  accept  the  office  of  teachers,  of  which  more 
than  fifty  availed  themselves. 

It  is  worthy  of  notice  as  one  of  the  most  important 
improvements  connected  with  the  College,  that  the  study 
of  the  Bengalee  language  was  for  the  first  time 
enforced  on  the  members  of  the  civil  service.  cuttwaSdtauw 

collage* 

From  the  period  when  the  British  government 
undertook  the  internal  administration  of  Bengal  and 
Behar,  the  business  of  the  Courts  had  been  conducted 
exclusively  in  Persian.  Persian  was  introduced  as  the 
language  of  public  business  by  the  Mohammedan  con- 
querors of  India;  and  as  the  British  functionaries,  who 
stept  into  their  seat,  determined  to  make  as  few  innova- 
tions as  possible,  they  allowed  that  language  to  maintain 
its  position.  Every  civil  servant,  therefore,  applied  to 
the  study  of  Persian,  nor  was  he  required  or  expected  to 
understand  the  language  of  the  people  among  whom  he 
administered  justice.  Persian  occupied,  in  fact,  the  same 
position  in  the  British  institutions  in  India,  as  French 
among  the  Norman  institutions  of  England.  Lord  Wel- 
lesley  appears  to  have  been  the  first  Governor-General 
who  appreciated  the  importance  of  a  knowledge  of  the 
vernacular  language  by  those  who  presided  in  the  civil, 
criminal,  and  fiscal  courts.  He  did  not  deem  it  advis- 
able to  alter  the  language  of  judicial  proceedings,  which, 
indeed,  could  not  have  been  attempted  without  serious 
embarrassment,  but  he  laid  the  foundation  of  future  im- 
provement by  the  cultivation  of  the  different  vernacular 
tongues.     So  slow  is  the  progress  of  sound  principles  in 


Digitized  by 


Google 


148  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION,      [Chap,  HI, 

India,  not  less  than  elsewhere,  and  so  inveterate  are  pre- 
judices, even  when  most  absurd,  that  thirty-five  years 
were  subsequently  allowed  to  elapse  before  Persian  was 
banished  from  the  courts,  and  Bengalee  substituted  for 
it.  At  the  time  of  which  we  treat,  there  was  but  one 
man  in  Bengal  duly  qualified  to  undertake  the  office  of 
teaching  Bengalee,  but  he  was  a  missionary,  and  the 
government  was  inimical  to  missionary  efforts.  But  Mr, 
Brown  and  Mr.  Buchanan  were  determined,  if  possible,  to 
secure  the  services  of  Mr.  Carey  in  the  nfrw  College,  and 
on  the  8th  of  April,  1801,  Mr.  Brown  made  the  proposal 
to  him.  He  consulted  his  two  colleagues,  and  stated  his 
doubts  as  to  the  propriety  of  accepting  the  office ;  but  they 
urged  him  not  to  decline  it,  if  it  could  be  held  consistently 
with  his  missionary  engagements.  Mr.  Carey  then  ex- 
plained to  Mr.  Brown  and  Mr.  Buchanan  the 


Mr.  Carey  ap- 
pointed a  teacl 
In  the  college. 


nted  a  teacher  difficulty  he  felt  in  accepting  their  offer,  partly 


from  his  position  as  a  missionary,  and  partly 
from  his  inadequate  knowledge  of  Bengalee.  They 
assured  him  that  the  office  would  require  no  compromise 
of  his  missionary  character,  and  that,  as  to  his  qualifica- 
tions, they  were  able  to  form  their  own  judgment  on  that 
subject.  The  next  day  they  proposed  Mr.  Carey  to  Lord 
Wellesley,  stating  without  disguise  that  he  had  been  a 
missionary  to  the  heathen  for  seven  years,  and  that  the 
appointment  would  be  accepted  only  with  the  understand- 
ing that  he  was  still  to  consider  himself  a  missionary. 
Lord  Wellesley  raised  no  objection  on  this  ground,  but 
simply  inquired  whether  he  was  well  affected  to  govern- 
ment and  capable  of  fulfilling  the  duties  of  the  office. 
Mr.  Brown  replied,  that  he  should  not  have  proposed  his 
name,  if  he  had  entertained  the  slightest  doubt  on  the 
subject. 

Mr.  Carey  commenced  his  duties  on  the  12  th  of  May, 
in  the  inferior  grade  of  teacher,  on  a  salary  of  500  rs.  a 
moiith.  This  circumstance  arose  from  the  peculiar 
provisions  relative   to  religious  qualification  which   had 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1801*]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPOBE  MISSION,  149 

been  introduced  into  the  statutes.     The  laws  of  England 
which  imposed  disabilities  on  all  nonconformists  had  never 
been  extended  to  the  foreign  dependencies  of  Reiigioust«uin 
the  country;  and  the  East  India  Company,  thecoUege- 
from  the  most  remote  period,  had  always  acted  on  the 
most  liberal  principle  of  religious  toleration.     At  the  time 
when  the  Test  and  Corporation  Acts  were  enforced  with 
severity  in  England,  the  government  of  India  repudiated 
all  sectarian  tests.     In  India,  it  had  never  been  considered 
necessary  that  any  functionary  should  qualify  himself  for 
measuring  muslins,  or  taking  the  command  of  regiments, 
or  collecting  the  public  revenues,  by  the  profession  of  any 
particular  creed.     Every  office  of  every  description  was 
open  to  all   candidates  without  reservation.     The  first 
departure  from  this  enlightened  policy  was  exhibited  in 
the  statutes  of  the  College  of  Fort  William,  drawn  up  by 
Mr.  Buchanan,  who  had  been  brought  up  a  Presbyterian, 
but  was  now  a  member  of  the  Church  of  England.     He 
introduced  a  clause  requiring  "  all  the  superior  officers, 
the  professors,  and  lecturers  solemnly  and  faithfully  to 
promise  and  declare  that  they  would  not  maintain  pub- 
licly or  privately  any  doctrines  or  opinions  contrary  to 
the  doctrine  or  discipline   of  the  Church  of  England." 
Those  who  were  not  members  of  that  community  were 
thus  excluded    from  the    higher    appointments    in    the 
College ;  but,  to  meet  the  case  of  Dissenters  and  Eoman 
Catholics,   a  lower  class  of  officers  was   created,  from 
whom  no  such  declaration  was  required,  and  whose  allow- 
ances were  fixed  at  a  maximum  of  500  rs.  a  month.     This 
appointment  to  the  College  was  a  source  of  great  grati- 
fication to  Mr.  Carey  and  his  associates,  chiefly  from  the 
prospect  it  afforded  them  of  becoming  independent  of 
support  from  England.     In  his  letter  to  Mr.  Fuller,  of  the 
15th  of-  the  following  June,  Mr.  Carey  said,  "  Our  school 
has  increased,  and,  together  with  my  allowance  from  the 
College,  will,  we  trust,  support  us  without  further  help 
from  England.    We  therefore  intend  to  place  the  dollars 

*3 


Digitized  by 


Google 


150  HISTORY  OE  THE  SERAMPOBE  MISSION.       [Chap.  III. 

and  the  100?.  recently  received,  at  interest,  and  not  to 
touch  it,  but  to  do  all  we  can  to  establish  such  a  fund  as 
may  contribute  to  the  permanency  of  the  Mission."  In  a 
subsequent  letter  he  adds,  "  I  drew  on  Esdaile  &  Co.,  a 
few  days  ago,  for  51Z.  13s.  Ad. ;  probably  the  last  we  may 
have  occasion  to  draw  for,  except  we  should  want  it  for 
printing." 

The  rupture  between  England  and  Denmark  at  the 
close  of  1800  led  the  British  government  to  sequester  the 

Danish  settlements  in  India.      On  the  8th  of 
SSpS?e°^the    May,  1801,  a  detachment  of  troops  was  sent 

across  the  river  from  the  cantonment  at  Bar- 
rackpore,  who  took  possession  of  the  town  of  Serampore. 
At  ten  in  the  forenoon,  the  missionaries,  together  with  the 
other  foreigners  residing  there,  were  required  to  attend 
upon  the  English  Commissioner  at  the  king's  house,  who 
expressed  his  regret  at  the  trouble  he  had  given  them,  and 
assured  them  that  they  were  at  liberty  to  pursue  their 
respective  avocations  as  usual.  The  missionaries  were 
thus  deprived  of  the  friendly  protection  of  the  crown  of 
Denmark,  and  were  completely  within  the  power  of  those 
■f  who,  but  for  that  protection,  would  have  expelled  them 
from  the  country  eighteen  months  before.  It  was  natural 
for  them  to  entertain  some  feelings  of  disquietude  in  the 
new  position  in  which  they  now  stood  ;  but  Lord  Wellesley 
no  longer  regarded  their  missionary  enterprise  with  alarm, 
and  they  were  therefore  safe.  Nor  did  they  fail  to  con- 
trast, with  feelings  of  the  deepest  gratitude  to  God,  the 
security  they  now  enjoyed,  with  the  danger  to  which  they 
would  have  been  exposed  if  the  settlement  had  been  cap- 
tured by  the  English  at  an  earlier  period.  During  the 
eighteen  months  in  which  the  town  remained  in  the  hands 
of  British  officers,  the  missionaries  were  permitted  to 
prosecute  their  labours  without  interruption.  Soon  after 
this  event,  they  were  called  to  mourn  the  loss  of  another 
of  their  little  band.  Mr.  Brunsdon,  who  had  been  suffering 
for  nine  months  from  a  lingering  disease,  died  in  Calcutta 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1801.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPOBE  MISSION.  151 

on  the  3rd  of  July,  at  the  early  age  of  twenty-four,  after 
having  given  the  highest  promise  of  an  active  and  useful 
career.  He  was  interred  in  the  public  burial  ^t,  of  m,. 
ground,  and  Mr.  Carey  performed  the  funeral  Brunsdon- 
service,  and  addressed  the  natives  who  were  attracted  to 
the  scene.  No  sectarian  distinction  was  then  made  in  the 
use  of  these  cemeteries.  They  had  been  originally  esta- 
blished by  government,  or  created  by  private  subscriptions, 
as  the  common  receptacle  of  the  dead,  with  whatever 
denomination  they  might  have  been  connected  while  living. 
The  friends  of  the  deceased  were  at  liberty  to  accept  the 
aid  of  any  minister  of  the  Gospel,  and  to  use  any  form  of 
service  they  preferred.  But  as  soon  as  a  bishopric  was 
created  in  India,  the  cemeteries  were  successively  conse- 
crated, generally  without  asking  permission  of  government, 
and  that  which  had  been  considered  from  time  immemorial 
the  common  property  of  the  Christian  community  in  India, 
came  into  the  exclusive  possession  of  one  body.  This  his- 
torical reference  is  necessary  to  account  for  the  interment 
of  a  Dissenter  in  the  Presidency  burial-ground,  and  the 
performance  of  the  funeral  service  by  one  of  his  own 
brethren.  But  so  entirely  foreign  were  all  such  sec- 
tarian feelings  to  that  period,  that  Mr.  Brown  assured  Mr. 
Carey  that  if  he  had  been  aware  of  Mr.  Brunsdon's  de- 
cease in  Calcutta,  he  would  have  offered  his  remains  a 
grave  within  the  episcopal  chapel  in  which  he  officiated. 

In  the  month  of  August,  Goluk,  who  had  been  among 
the  first  inquirers  at  Serampore,  but  hesitated  for  a  time 
to  embrace  Christianity,  was  received  into  the  church  by 
baptism.      These  accessions,  and  the  prospect  of  others, 
brought  under  consideration   the  question  of 
giving  Christian  names  to  the  converts  on  their  n^Sngth°e  Si- 
baptism.     Mr.  Carey  opposed  the  practice,  not 
only  because  he  could  perceive  no  necessary  connection 
between  the  rite  of  Christian  baptism  and  a  change  of 
name,  but  also  because  it  did  not  appear  to  have  been 
usual  in  the  apostolic  age  to  repudiate  such  names  of 

Digitized  by  VjOOQlC 


152  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  III. 

heathen  origin  as  Sylvanus,  Olympias,  Hermes,  Nereus,  and 
Fortunatus.  Mr.  Ward  and  Mr.  Marshman  fully  concurred 
in  this  view  of  the  case,  and  it  was  resolved  not  to  impose 
any  new  names  on  the  converts  at  their  baptism.  It  was 
reserved  for  other  missionary  communities,  at  a  subsequent 
period,  to  sanction  such  anomalies  as  Matthew  Chuker- 
butty,  and  Timothy  Tarachand,  which  only  serve  to  pre- 
sent Christianity  in  a  more  foreign  and  repulsive  aspect  to 
the  heathen.  The  increase  of  the  school  constrained  the 
missionaries  to  enlarge  their  premises,  and  in  October, 
1801,  they  purchased  the  adjoining  house  and  grounds, 
which  Mr.  Ward  described  as  one  of  the  finest  in  Seram- 
pore,  for  10,340  rs.  By  this  addition,  they  obtained  suit- 
able accommodation  for  the  school,  and  the  printing  and 
binding  establishments;  as  well  as  for  additional  mis- 
sionaries. But,  while  they  were  ready  to  expend  large 
sums  for  premises  adapted  to  their  extended  operations, 
their  household  and  personal  expenditure  was  regulated  by 
the  sternest  (economy.  They  all  dined  together  at  four 
long  tables,  missionaries,  wives,  children,  and  scholars : — 
"We  live  moderately,"  writes  Mr.  Ward,  "and  drink 
only  rum  and  water.  We  have  always  a  little  cheap 
fruit;  goats1  flesh,  —  the  same  as  mutton,  —  broth^  fowls, 
with  a  little  beef  sometimes,  and  curry,  but  we  have  good 
wheaten  bread." 

After  a  residence  of  two  years  at  Serampore,  the  mis- 
sionaries began  to  itinerate  in  the  interior  of  the  country, 
Fint  mneratin*  a*  some  distance  from  the  town.  Krishnu,  the 
journey.  first  conver^  though  only  a  carpenter  by  birth 

and  trade,  possessed  great  natural  talent,  and  considerable 
fluency  of  speech.  The  first  occasion  on  which  the  pro- 
priety of  employing  native  itinerants  in  the  work  of 
the  mission  came  under  discussion,  was  in  August  in  the 
present  year.  "  It  appears  to  us  all,"  writes  Mr.  Ward, 
"that  we  ought  to  make  the  most  of  the  gifts  of  our 
Hindoo  friends,  and  we  are  thinking  how  to  occupy 
Krishnu  so  as  to  make  him  useful  in  the  vineyard."     He 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1801.]  HISTORY  Off  THE  SBBAMPORB  MISSION.  153 

was,  therefore,  encouraged  to  accompany  the  missionaries 
in  their  preaching  excursions  round  Serampore  ;  and  Mr* 
Ward  determined  to  take  him  as  a  companion  in  the  mis- 
sionary tour  which  he  undertook  in  October.  They  visited 
Chandernagore,  Chinsurah,  and  Hooghly;  and  then  pro- 
ceeded eastward  till  they  reached  Dehatta,  where,  as 
already  stated,  Mr.  Carey  resided  for  a  few  months  on 
his  arrival  in  the  country.  They  were  absent  a  fortnight, 
and  preached  daily  in  the  various  villages  on  the  route ; 
and  excited  great  interest  by  the  novelty  of  their  addresses 
to  the  heathen,  and  more  especially  by  the  distribution  of 
printed  books  and  pamphlets,  which  had  never  before 
been  seen  in  the  country.  The  discussions  in  which  they 
engaged  regarding  the  merits  of  Hindooism  and  Moham- 
medanism were  found  to  excite  much  opposition  among 
the  wealthy,  but  the  poor  appear  to  have  received  the 
Gospel  message  with  pleasure.  The  demand  for  books 
exceeded  their  highest  expectation.  The  natives  crowded 
around  the  boat,  demanding  them  with  great  importunity; 
and  if  the  supply  had  been  fivefold  greater,  it  must  speedily 
have  been  exhausted. 

On  Mr.  Ward's  return  to  Serampore,  he  learned,  with 
deep  regret,  that  Mr.  Thomas  had  sunk  under  an  attack 
of  ague  and  fever  at  Dinagepore  on  the  13th 
of  October.  Thus,  within  two  years,  to  the  day,  !^£  **•  *" 
of  their  arrival  at  Serampore,  four  out  of  the 
seven  labourers  who  formed  the  missionary  circle  in  Ben- 
gal were  removed  by  death ;  and  there  remained  only  the 
three  eminent  men  at  Serampore,  Carey,  Marshman,  and 
Ward.  Mr.  Thomas  was  the  first  Protestant  missionary 
who  preached  to  the  natives  of  Northern  India  in  their 
own  language ;  and  he  continued  his  missionary  labours, 
with  occasional  interruptions,  for  fifteen  years.  The  faults 
of  his  character  greatly  diminished  his  usefulness,  but  did 
not  neutralise  it,  and  they  were  often  thrown  into  the  shade 
by  outbursts  of  kindness  and  generosity.  When  warm  in 
his  work,  few  men  have  ever  produced  a  more  powerful 


Digitized  by 


Google 


154  HISTORY  OF  THE  SBRAMPOBB  MISSION.      [Chap.  IH. 

impression  on  an  auditory.  It  was  impossible,  however, 
to  dovetail  him  into  any  system  of  exertions.  The  alter- 
nations of  ecstacy  and  depression,  zeal  and  apathy,  which 
he  exhibited,  made  him  a  very  undesirable  associate :  but 
it  must  not  be  forgotten  that  this  arose  from  his  physical, 
and  not  his  moral,  temperament;  and  that  the  mental 
disease  which  sent  him,  for  a  time,  to  an  asylum  was 
doubtless  inherent  in  his  constitution.  Though  "unstable 
as  water,"  he  did  not  excel ;  yet,  as  the  first  and  among 
the  most  ardent  and  zealous  missionaries,  his  name  will 
always  be  remembered  with  esteem.  On  the  4th  of  No- 
vember, another  Hindoo  female  was  baptized,  Komul,  the 
wife  of  Goluk.  "  We  have  now,"  writes  Mr.  Marshman, 
"six  baptized  Hindoos,  whom  we  esteem  more  precious 
than  an  equal  number  of  valuable  gems.  We  need  great 
prudence  in  our  intercourse  with  them.  We  are  obliged 
to  strengthen,  to  encourage,  to  counteract,  to  advise,  to 
disapprove,  to  teach,  and  yet  to  do  all  so  as  to  endear  the 
Saviour  to  them,  and  to  retain  a  place  in  their  warmest 
affections."  Mr.  Fuller's  reply  to  the  communications 
which  announced  their  success,  breathed  a  spirit  of  the 
warmest  cordiality.  "  Through  the  medium  of  their  and 
your  struggles,  we  read  the  Acts  and  the  Epistles,  as  it 
were,  with  new  eyes,  and  seem  to  behold  as  in  a  mirror 
the  Christianity  of  the  early  ages.  We  can  truly  say  of 
you,  dear  brethren,  and  both  we  and  you  of  them,  4  Now 
we  live,  if  ye  stand  fast  in  the  Lord ! '  We  do  most  heartily 
rejoice  in  your  faithfulness,  diligence,  prudence,  unanimity, 
and  in  all  the  good  which  the  Lord  hath  wrought  for  you 
and  by  you." 

On  the  first  Sunday  in  1802,  the  Serampore  missionaries 
had  the  pleasure  of  baptising  the  first  convert  of  the 
Btpttfmofthe  Kayust  or  writer  caste.  The  position  of  this 
fimiuyu*.       ^^  ^  tjie  g^iai  g^fe  jg  second  only  to  that 

of  the  sacerdotal  tribe,  though  its  members  are  fully 
equal,  and  generally  superior,  to  the  Brahmins  in  wealth 
intelligence,  and  enterprise.    Petumber  Sing,  the  convert, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1802.]  mSTOET  OF  THB  SERAMPORE  MISSION*  155 

was  nearly  sixty  years  of  age,  of  an  active  and  inquisitive 
mind,  and  great  simplicity  of  character.  He  had  read  all 
the  native  religious  works  which  then  existed  in  manu- 
script, and  had  travelled  to  many  shrines  to  discover  a 
system  of  religious  belief  in  which  he  could  place  confi- 
dence. The  result  of  his  inquiries,  however,  only  served 
to  increase  his  dissatisfaction  with  the  national  creed,  and  * 
he  quietly  relinquished  the  worship  of  idols.  In  this  state 
of  mind,  one  of  the  tracts  distributed  by  Mr.  Ward,  in  his 
recent  missionary  tour,  fell  into  his  hands,  and .  told  him 
that  the  missionaries  at  Serampore  had  come  from  a  dis- 
tant land  to  promote  the  eternal  happiness  of  the  Hindoos, 
and  that  salvation  was  to  be  obtained  only  through  the 
atonement  of  Christ.  He  lost  no  time  in  proceeding  to 
Serampore,  a  distance  of  thirty  miles,  in  order  to  hear  more 
of  this  "  new  way."  After  receiving  instruction  for  two  or 
three  days,  he  returned  to  his  family  to  impart  the  glad 
tidings  to  them,  promising  to  return  in  a  fortnight.  He 
was  again  at  Serampore  before  a  week  had  elapsed,  and 
threw  up  his  caste  by  eating  with  the  missionaries,  and 
was  received  into  the  Christian  church  by  baptism.  In 
the  month  of  February,  two  other  Eayusts,  and  likewise 
a  Brahmin,  came  forward  voluntarily,  and  renounced 
caste.  The  Brahmin  was  a  koolin  of  the  highest  and 
proudest  grade  of  Brahminhood,  but  had  long  ceased  to 
place  any  faith  in  Hindooism.  His  aversion  to  the  popular 
system  of  idolatry  appears  to  have  been  excited  while  he 
was  employed  in  committing  to  memory  the  English 
Primer,  then  in  vogue,  which  began  with  a  vocabulary, 
and  ended  with  a  metrical  translation  of  the  Ten  Com- 
mandments, one  couplet  of  which  was  indelibly  fixed  in 
his  memory*    It  ran  thus :  — 

"  Adore  no  other  gods,  but  only  One : 
Worship  not  God  by  anything  you  see." 

On  this  occasion,  Mr.  Carey  writes  to  Mr.  Fuller  in  lan- 
guage of  great  exultation :  u  Both  Europeans  and  natives 


Digitized  by 


Google 


156  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  HI, 

laughed  at  what  they  thought  to  be  our  enthusiastic  idea 
of  breaking  the  bonds  of  the  Hindoo  caste  by  preaching 
the  Gospel.  When  Krishnu  and  Goluk  rejected  their  caste, 
many  wondered  at  it ;  but  the  majority  endeavoured  to 
carry  it  off  with  a  high  hand,  and  tauntingly  asked,  Have 
any  of  the  Brahmins  and  Eayusts  believed  on  him  ?  What 
great  thing  to  have  a  carpenter  and  a  distiller  reject  their 
caste  ?  Lately,  however,  the  Lord  has  deprived  them  of 
that  small  consolation,  and  has  given  us  one  Kayust,  who 
joined  the  church  a  little  while  ago.  Last  week,  two 
more  of  the  same  caste  and  one  Brahmin  came  and 
voluntarily  rejected  their  caste  without  our  proposing  it. 
We  have  neither  time  nor  occasion  to  go  out  to  preach  as 
much  as  formerly*  Our  printing-press  now  sends  out 
missionaries  —  New  Testaments,  pamphlets,  and  tracts ; 
and  the  people  who  come  to  us  for  instruction  are  fre- 
quently as  many  as  we  can  attend  to." 

The  circulation  of  these  tracts  roused  the  indignation  of 
not  a  few  influential  natives;  and  a  Hindoo  of  great  consi- 
Effect  produced  deration  in  Calcutta  showed  some  of  them  to 
^  the  tr**..      one  of  the  judgeg  of  the  sudder,  or  Chief,  Court 

of  Appeal  in  Calcutta,  who  was  known  to  be  unfriendly 
to  missions,  and  inquired  whether  the  Government  had 
authorised  these  remarks  on  the  popular  faith,  to  the  great 
discomfort  of  the  people.  The  judge  appeared  to  be 
shocked  at  such  proceedings,  and,  after  consulting  with 
some  other  alarmists,  determined  to  bring  the  matter 
officially  before  the  Vice-president,  at  a  private  audience, 
after  the  next  levee.  Lord  Wellesley  had  quitted  Calcutta 
in  the  preceding  month  of  August,  for  the  north-west 
provinces,  leaving  Mr.  George  Barlow  to  preside  at  the 
Council-board.  Mr.  Barlow,  when  not  under  the  influence 
of  Lord  Wellesley's  master  mind  and  dauntless  spirit,  re- 
lapsed into  the  morbid  timidity  and  little-mindedness  of 
the  "old  Indians ;"  and  the  introduction  of  such  a  subject 
during  his  incumbency  might  have  led  to  embarrassing- 
results.     Mr.  Buchanan  happened  to  overhear  the  conver- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1802.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPOBE  MISSION.  157 

sation  at  the  levee,  and  advised  the  judge  to  procure  a 
translation  of  the  tract,  and  read  it  himself,  before  he 
committed  himself  to  any  farther  movement  in  this  matter. 
By  his  advice,  all  the  tracts  were  sent  to  Mr.  Carey  to  be 
turned  into  English ;  and  the  judge's  intention  was  even- 
tually dropped,  to  the  no  small  relief  of  the  Serampore 
missionaries,  who  were  not  ignorant  of  the  prejudices 
entertained  against  them  in  high  circles,  and  who  felt  that 
they  were  safe  only  as  long  as  they  attracted  no*  notice. 
This  dread  of  the  consequence  of  diffusing  Christian  truth 
was  accompanied,  as  might  naturally  have  been  expected, 
by  a  corresponding  respect  for  "  native  prejudices ;"  as  will 
be  manifest  from  the  following  fact  recorded  by  Mr.  Ward 
in  his  journal :  — "  Last  week,  a  deputation  from  the 
Government  went  in  procession  to  Kalee  Ghat, 
and  made  a  thank  offering  to  this  goddess  tv^VPiSU 
of  the  Hindoos,  in  the  name  of  the  Company, 
for  the  success  which  the  English  have  lately  obtained  in 
this  country.  Five  thousand  rupees  were  offered.  Several 
thousand  natives  witnessed  the  English  presenting  their 
offerings  to  this  idol.  We  have  been  much  grieved  at 
this  act,  in  which  the  natives  exult  over  us."  Kalee  Ghat, 
in  the  northern  suburb  of  the  metropolis,  is  the  most  opu- 
lent and  popular  idolatrous  shrine  within  many  miles  of 
Calcutta. 

Mr.  George  Udny,  to  whom  Mr.  Carey  was  AbolItlonofthe 
indebted  for  an  asylum  at  Mudnabatty  in  1794,  5™fl*  k££u" 
had  been  promoted  to  the  Supreme  Council  in  Ghat* 
October,  1801.     He  was  the  warm  and  steady  friend  of  the 
missionary  cause,  and,  indeed,  of  every  other  benevolent 
movement.     On  being  raised  to  power,  he  lost  no  time  in 
calling  the  attention  of  Lord  Wellesley  to  the  atrocities 
which  were  perpetrated  annually  at  the  great  festival  at 
Gunga  Saugor,  —  at  the  confluence  of  the  Ganges  and  the 
sea,  —  where  children  were  constantly  sacrificed  by  their 
parents  in  connection  with  religious  vows ;  and  he  warmly 
advocated  the  immediate  suppression   of  a  practice  so 


Digitized  by 


Google 


158  BISTORT  OF  THE  SBBAMPOBE  MISSION.      [Chap.  DX 

revolting  to  humanity.  It  had  hitherto  been  the  policy 
of  the  government  of  India  to  avoid  most  scrupulously 
all  interference  with  the  religious  prejudices  of  the  natives ; 
and  to  permit  the  most  sanguinary  rites,  whenever  it  was 
alleged  by  orthodox  Hindoos  that  they  were  sanctioned 
by  the  shasters.  Lord  Wellesley  was  the  first  Governor- 
General  to  break  up  this  system  of  guilty  connivance,  and 
it  was  effected  with  his  characteristic  boldness.  Mr. 
Carey's  position  in  the  College  was  supposed  to  give  him 
peculiar  advantages  for  investigating  such  a  question ;  and 
he  was  required  to  examine  the  authorities  which  were 
adduced  for  this  purpose,  and  to  make  a  report  to  Govern- 
ment. "  You  may  be  sure,"  he  writes  to  Mr.  Fuller, 
"  that  I  shall  make  my  report  as  full  as  possible,  and  do  it 
with  the  greatest  pleasure ;  for  I  consider  that  the  burning 
of  women,  the  burying  them  alive  with  their  husbands,  as 
in  the  case  of  many  jogees,  the  exposure  of  infants,  and 
the  sacrifice  of  children  at  Saugor,  ought  not  to  be  per- 
mitted, whatever  religious  motives  may  be  pretended, 
because  they  are  all  crimes  against  the  State."  In  his 
report  to  Government,  he  urged  the  immediate  prohibition 
of  the  practice ;  and  the  beneficial  result  of  his  labours  was 
speedily  visible  in  the  enactment  of  a  regulation  in 
August,  1802,  which  peremptorily  interdicted  the  drown- 
ing of  children  at  Saugor  under  severe  penalties,  —  and 
upon  the  ground  that,  although  the  practice  was  con- 
nected with  superstitious  vows,  it  was  not  sanctioned  by 
the  Hindoo  shasters.  This  fact,  however,  did  not  in 
any  measure  detract  from  the  moral  courage  evinced  by 
the  prohibition,  inasmuch  as  those  superstitious  practices 
are  in  many  cases  most  inveterate  where  there  is  least 
sanction  for  them  in  the  religious  canon.  A  detachment 
of  sepoys  was  posted  at  Saugor,  on  the  next  recurrence  of 
the  festival,  who,  though  themselves  Hindoos,  effectually 
enforced  the  orders  of  Government.  This  was  the  first 
instance  of  any  interference  by  the  British  Government 
with  the  religious  observances  of  the  natives,  and  the  first 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1802.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  8BRAMP0RE  MISSION.  159 

vindication  of  the  principles  of  humanity  in  opposition  to 
the  superstitious  feelings  of  the  people.  To  the  astonish- 
ment of  the  whole  body  of  Christian  alarmists,  it  created 
no  rebellion,  and  scarcely  even  a  murmur ;  and  when  it 
was  followed  up,  after  the  long  interval  of  twenty-seven 
years,  by  the  abolition  of  female  immolation,  it  was  found 
to  have  gone  so  completely  out  of  memory  that  some  of 
the  most  strenuous  advocates  of  suttee  asserted  that  the 
sacrifice  of  children  at  Saugor  had  never  been  practised. 

With  the  appointment  of  Mr.  Carey  to  the  College  com- 
menced the  publication  of  works  in  the  Bengalee  language. 
Not  a  single  prose  work  was  found  to  exist 
when  he  delivered  his  first  lecture  in  May,  Sr£r£SSS2atlon 
1801.  The  native  literati  who  prided  them- 
selves on  their  knowledge  of  the  classical  Sanskrit,  had 
never  condescended  to  improve  the  language  of  the  people. 
It  has  been  already  stated,  that  the  first  book  in  which 
Bengalee  types  were  used  was  Halhed's  Bengalee  Gram- 
mar, printed  at  Hooghly  at  the  press  established  by  Mr. 
Andrews,  a  bookseller,  in  1778.  The  next  notice  extant 
of  any  printed  work  in  that  tongue  was  the  translation  of 
the  first  code  of  the  British  Government  in  India,  compiled 
by  Sir  Elijah  Impey,  after  he  had  been  wisely,  though 
unconstitutionally,  appointed  to  preside  in  the  Sudder 
Court  of  Calcutta  by  Mr.  Hastings  in  1781,  and  this 
became  the  basis  of  all  subsequent  legislation.  The 
Bengalee  translation  was  spontaneously  executed  by  a 
young  gentleman  in  the  civil  service — Mr.  Jonathan  Dun- 
can— in  the  brief  period  of  two  months,  and  printed  at 
the  "  Company's  press."  The  code  of  Lord  Cornwallis  in 
1793  was  also  published  in  Bengalee,  but  as  these  works 
were  ill-adapted  to  the  studies  of  his  class,  Mr.  Carey  found 
it  necessary  to  create  books  for  their  use.  He,  therefore, 
employed  Ram-bosoo,  to  whom  allusion  has  already  been 
made,  as  having  been  almost  persuaded  to  become  a 
Christian,  to  compile  a  History  of  King  Pritapadityu,  an 
edition  of  which  was  published  in  July,  1801,  at  the  Seram- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


160  HISTORY  OF  THE  SBEAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap,  m. 

pore  press,  and  this  may  be  regarded  as  the  first  prose 
work  —  the  laws  and  the  tracts  excepted — printed  in  the 
Bengalee  language.  After  the  lapse  of  more  than  half  a 
century,  and  at  a  time  when  thirty  native  presses  are  in 
active  operation  in  Calcutta,  and  30,000  volumes  are  sent 
into  circulation  annually,  it  is  interesting  to  look  back 
to  the  first  germ  of  Bengalee  literature  in  the  missionary 
press  at  Serampore.  At  the  same  time,  Mr.  Carey  com- 
piled a  grammar  of  that  language,  which  was  printed  a 
few  months  after ;  as  well  as  a  series  of  Colloquies,  intended 
to  familiarise  the  students  with  the  ordinary  modes  of  con- 
versation in  the  different  classes  of  native  society.  It 
was  eminently  idiomatic,  and  exhibited  an  extraordinary 
acquaintance  with  native  habits  of  thought  and  feeling. 
These  works  were  followed  by  a  Bengalee  translation  of 
the  Sanskrit  Hetopudes,  executed  by  the  chief  pundit  of 
the  College ;  and  arrangements  were  also  made  for  pub- 
lishing an  edition  of  the  metrical  version  of  the  great  epic 
poem,  the  Muhubharat,  which  was  deservedly  popular 
throughout  the  country.  About  this  time,  Mr.  Carey  was 
appointed  teacher  of  Sanskrit  in  the  College — though 
without  any  addition  to  his  allowances — and  he  imme- 
diately undertook  the  compilation  of  a  grammar  of  that 
language.  In  February  of  the  present  year,  the  mission- 
punforedn.  ar*es  drew  up  a  plan  for  educating  the  children 
chri.tfcMi-  of  native  converts,  and  of  youths  who  might 
drea  renounce  their  caste.     The  first  expense   of 

purchasing  the  ground,  walling  it  in,  and  erecting  huts, 
was  calculated  at  1000  rupees,  and  the  annual  expendi- 
ture at  1200  rupees ;  that  is,  40  rupees  a  month  for  three 
teachers,  and  3  rupees  monthly  for  the  maintenance  of 
the  twenty  youths  whom  they  proposed  to  receive.  It 
was  intended  to  give  them  instruction  in  divinity,  history, 
geography,  and  astronomy,  and  in  the  English  and  Ben- 
galee languages.  In  the  prospectus  of  this  institution, 
the  missionaries  remark,  that  "  to  provide  for  the  educa- 
tion of  these  native  youths  in   those  principles  which 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1802.]  HISTORY  OP  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  161 

enlarge  the  mind,  lead  to  the  worship  and  service  of  the 
true  God,  and  to  a  holy  and  useful  life,  cannot  fail  to  be 
essentially  advantageous  to  society,  and  might  be  the 
means,  in  a  few  years,  of  sending  out  into  this  part  of  the 
heathen  world  persons  who  shall  be  peculiarly  instru- 
mental in  turning  their  fellow-countrymen  from  darkness 
to  light,  and  from  dumb  idols  to  serve  the  living  and  true 
God."  In  the  month  of  May  another  Kayust  of  the 
name  of  Samdass  was  baptized  at  Serampore ;  but  he  was 
murdered  a  few  months  after  while  proceeding  on  a  visit 
to  his  family. 

During  this  year,  Mr.  Carey,  Mr.  Marshman,  and 
Krishnu,  paid  a  visit  to  the  leader  of  a  new  sect.  Not- 
withstanding the  vaunted  immutability  of 
Hindoo  institutions,  sect  after  sect  of  heretics  *™*?*l 
had  sprung  up  in  the  native  community,  and 
drawn  off  multitudes  from  the  orthodox  creed.  About 
forty  years  before  the  close  of  the  last  century,  a  native 
cowherd  had  acquired  considerable  reputation  among  the 
people  by  his  skill  in  healing  diseases.  He  pretended  to 
great  sanctity,  and  drew  a  number  of  disciples  around 
him,  on  whom  he  bestowed  the  privilege  of  drinking  the 
water  in  which  he  had  dipped  his  toe,  and  exacted  from 
them  the  acknowledgment  of  his  spiritual  supremacy. 
They  were  directed  at  the  same  time  to  disregard  the 
idols  and  to  believe  in  one  God  alone.  His  fame  was 
rapidly  diffused  through  the  country,  and  disciples  flocked 
to  him  from  all  parts,  and  the  new  sect  at  length  com- 
prised many  thousand  converts,  who  supplied  his  necessities 
with  liberality.  On  the  death  of  the  cowherd,  his  widow, 
anxious  to  perpetuate  so  profitable  a  delusion,  placed  her 
son  on  the  spiritual  throne,  and  he  continued  to  dispense 
the  "  churun  umritta,"  or  water  of  immortality,  by  the 
medium  of  his  toe,  as  his  father  had  done  before  him. 
Kam-doolal,  the  son,  had  established  his  head-quarters  at 
Ghosepara,  within  thirty  miles  of  Serampore,  where  his 
adherents  had  built  him  a  magnificent  mansion.      The 

VOL.  I.  M 


Digitized  by 


Google 


162  HISTOBY  OF  THE  SERAMPORB  MISSION.      [Chap.  m. 

missionaries  reached  this  stately  edifice  on  the  16th  of 
April,  and  were  ushered  into  the  garden  as  the  teachers 
of  the  Christian  religion.  They  were  accommodated  with 
the  European  luxury  of  chairs,  and  a  rich  satin  cushion 
was  placed  for  the  heresiarch.  In  a  few  moments,  the 
well-fed  and  corpulent  gooroo,  or  spiritual  guide,  made 
his  appearance,  and  took  his  seat.  A  few  of  his  select 
disciples  were  admitted  to  the  conference,  the  rest  were 
dismissed  by  a  nod.  Krishnu,  who  had  once  been  num- 
bered among  his  disciples,  stood  behind  Mr.  Carey's  chair, 
and  confronted  his  old  master  with  the  New  Testament 
under  his  arm.  After  some  time  had  passed  in  interro- 
gations and  replies,  with  great  keenness  of  argument,  Mr. 
Carey  opened  his  message,  and  stated  that  God  had  sent 
the  revelation  of  his  word  to  India  to  point  out  to  the 
natives  the  true  mode  of  salvation ;  and  he  then  presented 
him  with  a  copy  of  the  New  Testament.  Ram-doolal  was 
evidently  disconcerted,  as  the  acceptance  of  the  volume 
might  have  been  interpreted  by  his  disciples  as  a  token  of 
mistrust  of  his  own  religious  pretensions.  He  therefore 
politely  declined  the  gift,  with  the  remark,  "  This  is  the 
first  time  I  have  seen  you ;  your  words  are  very  good,  but 
we  must  be  farther  acquainted  before  I  can  accept  any- 
thing at  your  hands."  The  missionaries  parted  with  him 
in  peace  and  courtesy.  "  Though  this  journey,"  remarks 
Mr.  Ward,  "  did  not,  to  all  appearance,  produce  anything 
to  the  mission,  yet  it  has  opened  to  us  the  history  of  a 
numerous  sect  of  Hindoos,  who  live  constantly  in  the 
secret  violation  of  their  caste." 

On  the  10th  of  May,  Mr.  Ward  was  married  to  the 
widow  of  Mr.  Fountain,  at  the  Mission  House,  by  Mr. 
Marriage  of  Mr.  Carey,  and  the  connection  proved  a  source  of 
i^amarriSciein"  great  mutual  happiness  during  the  twenty  years 
India.  o£  -t8  continuance#    ner  previous  marriage  with 

Mr.  Fountain  was  solemnised  by  Mr.  Buchanan,  according 
to  the  rites  of  the  Church  of  England.  The  missionaries 
had  subsequently  made  inquiries  of  Mr.  Brown,  the  senior 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1802.]  HISTORY  OP  THE  SERAMPORB  MISSION.  163 

chaplain  at  the  Presidency,  whether  there  was  any  legal 
impediment  to  the  celebration  of  marriages  by  themselves, 
more  especially  as  they  hoped  at  no  distant  period  to  have 
occasion  to  introduce  Christian  marriages  among  their 
native  converts.  He  informed  them  that  the  Marriage 
Act  which  was  in  force  in  England  had  not  been  extended 
to  India;  that  marriages  were  constantly  performed  by 
civil  and  military  officers  at  various  stations  in  the  country, 
with  the  full  approbation  of  Government,  and  that  mar- 
riages solemnised  by  Dissenting  ministers  would  not  be 
deemed  invalid.  Thirty  years  after,  Dr.  Daniel  Wilson,  the 
Bishop  of  Calcutta,  addressed  Government  on  this  subject, 
and  asserted  that,  if  such  irregularities  as  marriages  by  any 
but  an  episcopal  clergyman  were  permitted,  "  a  flood  of 
vice  and  disorder,  the  ruin  and  misery  of  the  young,  the 
disturbance  of  family  relations,  the  wanton  riot  of  head- 
strong passion  and  misrule,  and  the  contempt  of  the 
religious  vow  of  marriage,  might  break  in  on  society." 
After  this  violent  denunciation  on  the  part  of  Dr.  Wilson, 
it  became  necessary  to  make  a  vigorous  effort  to  secure  to 
Dissenters  in  India  the  enjoyment  of  those  rights  which 
had  been  conceded  to  them  in  England ;  but  it  was  not 
till  after  a  protracted  struggle  of  ten  years  that  Dissenting 
marriages  in  India  were  placed  by  law  on  the  same  footing 
of  validity  as  those  of  episcopal  ministers. 

In  the  month  of  May,  three  Mahomedans  visited  Seram- 
pore  from  a  village  in  the  district  of  Jessore.  They  were 
the  first  men  of  that  creed  who  had  come  for-  Fir*  Ti.it  of 
ward  to  make  inquiries  about  the  Gospel ;  but  MahomedaI,B- 
their  faith  in  Mahomed  had  been  previously  shaken,  and 
they  were  anxious  to  ascertain  the  nature  of  this  new 
religion  of  which  the  tidings  had  now  spread  far  and  wide. 
The  missionaries  held  repeated  conversations  with  them, 
and  patiently  replied  to  all  their  inquiries,  though  many 
of  them  betrayed  a  degree  of  ignorance  of  the  nature  and 
attributes  of  God,  which  was  scarcely  to  have  been  ex- 
pected among  men  who  were  not  idolaters.     They  appear 

M  2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


164  HISTORY  OP  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  HL 

at  length  to  have  received  something  like  a  clear  view  of 
the  plan  of  redemption  through  the  vicarious  sacrifice  of 
Christ,  but  it  was  found  to  be  exceedingly  difficult  to 
eradicate  from  their  minds  many  absurd  notions  which 
from  long  habit  had  acquired  the  force  of  truth.  They  pro- 
fessed to  be  delighted  with  all  they  had  heard,  and  pressed 
the  missionaries  to  visit  them  in  their  own  village.  Their 
motive  was  evidently  pure  and  disinterested ;  they  refused 
to  receive  anything  for  their  support  during  their  sojourn 
at  Serampore,  and  would  only  accept  a  trifle  on  their 
departure  to  pay  their  boat  hire  to  Chogda.  They  re- 
turned laden  with  tracts  and  Scriptures.  On  the  13th  of 
June,  of  this  year,  Miss  Rhumohr,  the  daughter  of  Count 
Rhumohr,  of  the  Duchy  of  Schleswick,  who  had  been 
advised  to  resort  to  India  for  the  benefit  of  her  health, 
and  had  taken  up  her  residence  at  the  healthy  town  of 
Serampore,  was  received  into  the  church  by  adult  baptism, 
which  was  administered  in  the  presence  of  the  former 
Governor  of  Serampore,  the  British  Commissioner,  and  the 
European  inhabitants  of  the  settlement.  We  shall  have 
occasion  to  allude  to  Miss  Rhumohr,  hereafter,  as  the 
second  wife  of  Mr.  Carey. 

The  plan  which  the  Serampore  missionaries  devised  in 
the  present  year  for  the  education  of  the  children  of  mis- 
sionaries, exhibits  in  the  strongest  light  their 
^iulIfoSSfto*11  anxiety  to  domesticate  their  missionary  under- 
taking in  India.  They  had  themselves  relin- 
quished every  idea  of  ever  returning  to  England,  and  they 
resolved  to  make  India,  not  only  their  own  home,  but  the 
home  of  their  families.  Hence  they  repudiated  the  uni- 
versal custom  of  sending  children  to  England  for  educa- 
tion, lest  the  associations  in  which  they  might  be  trained 
up  there  should  divert  their  minds  from  missionary  labour 
in  the  East.  Mr.  Marshman  now  proposed  that  the  best 
practicable  arrangements  should  be  made  to  complete 
their  education  at  Serampore,  after  which  it  should  be  left 
to  their  option  to  be  employed  in  some  department  of  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1802.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  165 

missionary  establishment,  upon  a  suitable  allowance,  or  to 
engage  in  secular  occupation.     It  was  hoped  that  their 
connection  with  this  missionary  institution  would  in  many 
cases  create  a  desire  to  engage  in  direct  missionary  labours, 
in  which  case  they  were  to  be  sent  forth,  in  the  first  in- 
stance, as  itinerants,  and  eventually  proposed  for  accept- 
ance by  the  Society.     This  plan  at  the  first  received  the 
cordial  assent  of  his  two  brethren,  but  it  was  never  car- 
ried into  effect.     It  was  felt  to  be  repugnant  to  the  best 
feelings  of  the  heart  to  deprive  their  children  of  those 
healthy  associations  in  England  in  which  they  themselves 
had  been  trained  up,  and  which  are  found  to  be  essential 
to  the  mental  and  moral,  as  well  as  physical,  vigour  of 
Europeans  in  India.     The  plan  is  noticed  chiefly  for  the 
evidence  it  affords  of  that  entire  consecration  of  them- 
selves and  their  funds,  and  the  prospects  of  their  families,  to 
the  cause  in  which  they  had  embarked.     Mr.  Marshman, 
with  whom  it  originated,   had  rendered   the  boarding, 
school  so  efficient  and  popular  in  the  course  of  two  years, 
that  it  yielded  an  income  of  nearly  1000/.  a  year ;  yet  he 
took  no  larger  sum  for  the  personal  expenses  of  his  family 
than  34?.  a  year.     The  same  spirit  of  disinterestedness 
animated  both  his  colleagues.     The  corresponding  allow- 
ance of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Ward  from  the  proceeds  of  the 
press  was  only  201.  a  year ;  and  Mr.  Carey,  out  of  his 
collegiate  income  of  600J.  a  year,  had  no  larger  sum  than 
40/.  annually  for  himself,  his  wife,  and  family,  with  a 
small  addition   of  20Z.  to  enable  him  to  appear  in  what 
they  termed   "  decent  apparel "   at  the  College  and  at 
Government  House. 

But  these  plans  of  usefulness  were  now  threatened  with 
interruption  by  the  hostility  of  the  Court  of  Directors  to 
the  College,  which  not  only  supplied  Mr.  Carey  ^^^^^ 
with  500  rupees  a  month,  but  gave  him  the  ines-  ^idonouhe 
timable  advantage  of  intercourse  with  the  most  Col,ege' 
learned  natives  of  the  East,  and  enabled  him  to  carry 
forward  the  translation  of  the'  Scriptures  with  greater 

M  3 


Digitized  by 


Google 


166  HISTORY  OP   THE  SERAMPORB  MISSION.       [Chap.  HL 

confidence.     On  the  27th  of  January,  1802,  the  Court  of 
Directors  issued  a  peremptory  order  for  the  immediate 
abolition   of  the  institution.     They  were  unable  to  ap- 
preciate the  liberal  and  comprehensive   views  of  Lord 
Wellesley  regarding  the  administration  of  their  extensive 
empire.      There  was,  moreover,  no  feeling  of  cordiality 
between  the   Governor-General  and  the  Court.      They 
regarded  him  with  feelings  of  unmitigated  mistrust,  and 
he  treated  them  with  ill-disguised  contempt.     They  could 
not  brook  the  lofty  spirit  of  independence  which  charac- 
terised his  proceedings,  and  which  was  rendered  the  more 
galling  by  the  ostentatious  humility  of  that  deference 
which  he  appeared  to  pay  to  their  official  position.     All 
his  measures  were  viewed  with  a  jaundiced  eye,  and  the 
Directors  seemed  to  feel  a  degree  of  personal  gratifica- 
tion when  an  opportunity  presented  itself  of  thwarting  his 
plans.      The  College  had  been  established  without  their 
permission,  and  they  stated  that  they  could  not  sanction 
such  a  departure  from  their  established  system,  the  ten- 
dency of  all  such  deviations  being  to  weaken  the  authority 
which  was  constitutionally   placed  in  England.     Apart, 
however,  from  the  personal  feeling  against  Lord  Wellesley 
by  which  many  of  the  Directors  were  influenced,  there  were 
two  difficulties  connected   with  the  College,  in  addition 
to  the  expense  which  it  involved.     Even  the  unprejudiced 
members  of  the   Court  considered  it  unwise  that  the 
education  of  the  civilians  in  European  knowledge  should 
be  prosecuted  and  completed  in  India,  and  they  wished 
that    the   College  should  be  confined  to  the   study  of 
Oriental  subjects.     They  objected,  likewise,  to  the  assem- 
blage of  ail  the  young  men  attached  to  the  other  Presi- 
dencies in  Calcutta.     These  objections  were  valid  and  not 
factious.     While  the  question  of  the  College  was  under 
consideration  in  Leadenhall   Street,  another  element  of 
discord  was  unexpectedly  thrown  into  the  discussion,  the 
influence  of  which  proved  fatal  to  the  institution.     A  great 
effort  had  been  made  to  extend  the  privileges  of  private 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1802.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  167 

traders  in  India,  and  Lord  Wellesley  was  anxious  to  pro- 
mote this  liberal  policy,  to  which  the  rigid  monopolists  in 
the  Court  were  violently  opposed.  At  this  juncture  a 
public  letter  was  received  from  him  at  the  India  House, 
advocating  this  principle  with  much  earnestness,  and 
it  gave  no  little  encouragement  to  the  abettors  of  free 
trade,  and  corresponding  umbrage  to  their  opponents, 
who,  possessing  a  majority  in  the  Court,  determined  to 
visit  the  Governor-General  with  their  displeasure,  by 
throwing  his  favourite  plan  of  the  College  overboard. 
There  is  the  best  authority  for  the  assertion,  that  but  for 
the  annoyance  created  in  Leadenhall  Street  by  Lord 
Wellesley's  free-trade  notions,  his  College  would  have  been 
treated  with  greater  gentleness.  A  despatch  was  imme- 
diately sent  out  to  India,  directing  that  all  expenses 
connected  with  the  institution  should  cease,  and  that  Dr. 
Gilchrist's  Oriental  seminary  should  be  revived. 

This  despatch  reached  Calcutta  on  the  15th  of  June, 
1802,  and  produced  a  feeling  of  profound  regret  in  the 
minds  of  those  who  appreciated  the  spirit  of  ^^  weue.iej*i 
zeal  and  emulation  which  the  College  had  in-  "»"*""*• 
fused  into  the  civil  service.  The  prospect  of  losing  the 
pecuniary  and  philological  advantages  connected  with  it 
created  not  less  anxiety  at  Serampore.  The  idle  and  dis- 
sipated among  the  students  received  the  intelligence  with 
delight,  and  gave  vent  to  their  exultation  in  lampoons 
and  parodies.  The  immediate  consequence  of  the  orders 
of  the  Court  was  to  thin  the  attendance  of  the  students  at 
church.  On  the  5th  of  August  Lord  Wellesley  submitted 
his  reply  to  the  supreme  council.  It  is  one  of  the  most 
elaborate  and  finished  of  his  invaluable  state  papers,  and 
is  distinguished  equally  by  the  force  of  its  reasoning,  the 
elegance  of  its  style,  and  the  elevation  of  its  views.  He 
felt  that  the  most  effectual  mode  of  meeting  the  opposition 
of  the  Court  to  his  favourite  institution  was,  to  show  that 
its  expenditure  would  not  interfere  with  the  annual  pro- 
vision of  silk,  indigo,  and  piece  goods  for  the  warehouses 

M  4 


Digitized  by 


Google 


168  HISTORY  OF  THE  8ERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  IIL 

in  London.  This  balance-sheet  argument  might  be  con- 
sidered beneath  the  dignity  of  so  important  a  question, 
but  he  was  addressing  men  in  whose  minds  the  feelings  of 
the  shop  were  as  yet  uppermost.  The  additional  expenses 
of  the  College  would  not,  in  future,  exceed  40,000/.,  and  lie 
assured  the  Court  that  this  sum  had  been  provided  for 
by  the  creation  of  new  sources  of  revenue  since  his  first 
communication.  The  reader  of  the  present  day  will  be 
amused  to  find  that  this  new  source  of  revenue  was  the 
establishment  of  a  duty  on  the  transit  of  merchandise 
from  province  to  province  within  th§  British  dominions. 
So  imperfectly  were  the  true  principles  of  political  eco- 
nomy understood  in  those  days,  that  a  tax  on  the  springs 
of  industry  and  commerce,  belonging  to  the  rudest  state 
of  society,  and  which  is  now  universally  repudiated,  was 
sanctioned  by  the  most  enlightened  of  Governors-General, 
for  the  express  benefit  of  one  of  the  noblest  of  his  insti- 
tutions. Lord  Wellesley  also  proposed  to  appropriate  to 
the  use  of  the  College  the  legacy  which  General  Martine, 
then  recently  deceased,  had  bequeathed  for  the  education 
of  destitute  children  in  Calcutta.  He  asked  the  opinion 
of  counsel  learned  in  the  law  on  this  point,  and  they 
pronounced  that  such  a  diversion  of  the  funds  from  their 
original  destination  would  be  legal  and  legitimate.  He 
also  proposed  to  request  the  Nabob  of  Oude  to  transfer  to 
the  College  the  sum  bequeathed  by  the  General  for  a  similar 
institution  at  Lucknow,  but  it  was  not  carried  into  effect ; 
and  these  funds  have  been  since  employed  in  the  establish- 
ment of  two  valuable  institutions,  the  Martiniere  at  Cal- 
cutta and  that  at  Lucknow. 

Having  disposed  of  the  financial  branch  of  the  question, 
Lord  Wellesley  proceeded  to  advocate  with  irre- 
i°g^ule£^  sistible  force  the  necessity  of  providing  men 
qualified  for  the  public  service,  and  pointed  with 
exultation  to  the  success  which  had  already  attended  the 
establishment  of  the  College.  He  affirmed  that  "  the  se- 
curity on  which  the  Company  must  rely  for  the  prosperity 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1802.]  HISTORY   OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION*  169 

of  the  country,  for  the  happiness  of  our  native  subjects, 
for  the  augmentation  of  our  resources,  and  for  the  stability 
of  our  power,  was  the  abundant  supply  of  public  officers 
properly  qualified  to  discharge  their  arduous  duties  in  the 
several  stations  of  the  administration."  The  auspicious  re- 
sults of  the  education  given  to  the  students  in  exciting  a 
spirit  of  emulation,  reclaiming  the  idle  and  vicious  to  in- 
dustrious and  meritorious  pursuits,  and  raising  the  stan- 
dard of  public  honour,  were  described  in  the  most  glowing 
language.  But  the  orders  of  the  Court  were  peremptory, 
that  "  all  expenses  hitherto  incurred  on  account  of  the 
College  should  immediately  cease."  Lord  Wellesley, 
therefore,  "in  reference  to  the  peculiar  character  and 
spirit  of  the  Court's  commands  on  this  unhappy  occasion, 
as  an  act  of  necessary  submission  to  the  controlling  au- 
thority of  the  Court,  and  as  a  testimony  of  the  obedience 
due  to  the  superior  power  placed  by  law  in  the  govern- 
ment at  home,"  passed  an  order  in  council,  directing  that 
all  expenses  incurred  on  account  of  the  College  should 
cease,  and  that  the  institution  should  be  abolished.  At  the 
same  time  he  passed  a  second  order,  directing  that  the 
abolition  of  the  College  should  be  gradual,  and  that  the 
institution  should  not  be  finally  closed  before  the  month 
of  December,  1803.  This  bold  course  was 
adopted,  avowedly  "  in  the  hope  that  the  Court  ffiwthZcli- 
would  diligently  weigh  all  the  considerations  he 
had  placed  before  them,  and  revise  the  order  for  the  abo- 
lition of  the  College."  He  wound  up  this  celebrated  Minute 
with  the  following  lofty  remarks :  —  "I  should  be  guilty 
of  disrespect  as  well  as  of  injustice  towards  the  East  India 
Company,  if  I  could  suggest  that  the  Court  of  Directors, 
with  a  full  knowledge  of  the  objects  and  principles  of  this 
institution,  and  with  ample  proofs  of  its  actual  success, 
could  now  adopt  an  opinion  that  the  sura  of  money  now 
requisite  to  defray  its  charges  might  be  applied  to  any 
purposes  more  beneficial  to  the  interests  of  the  Company. 
I  therefore  close  this  letter  with  a  perfect  confidence  that 


Digitized  by 


Google 


170  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPOBE  MISSION.      [Chap.  DI. 

the  Honourable  Court  will  issue  without  delay  a  positive 
command  for  the  continuance  of  the  College  of  Fort  Wil- 
liam until  further  orders." 

While  Lord  Wellesley  was  addressing  the  Court  of  Di- 
Reflectiom  on  rectors  in  this  strain  of  official  calmness  and  re- 
these  eTents.  8pect,  he  was,  however,  writing  to  his  private 
friends  in  England  in  terms  of  burning  indignation.  He 
regarded  the  College  with  much  the  same  feelings  of  pa- 
ternity with  which  Napoleon  looked  on  the  Code  which  he 
was,  at  the  same  period,  engaged  in  compiling.  Lord  Wel- 
lesley considered  this  institution  as  the  greatest  achieve- 
ment of  his  reign,  and  was  far  prouder  of  it  than  of  all 
the  military  triumphs  and  conquests  which  had  rendered 
his  government  illustrious.  "  The  whole  world,"  said  he, 
"  will  contemplate  this  institution  when  a  general  peace 
permits  them.  The  peculiar  necessity  of  it  as  to  our  own 
country,  its  peculiar  situation  in  this  country,  its  useful 
light  in  the  darkness  of  Asia,  and  its  novel  appearance  to 
the  learned  world  in  Europe,  will  soon,  very  soon,  con- 
firm the  wisdom  of  the  institution."  Apprehensive  lest 
the  Court  should  be  disposed  "  to  bury  his  letter  in  the 
abyss  of  Leadenhall  Street,"  he  sent  copies  of  it  to  Mr. 
Pitt  and  Mr.  Dundas.  He  likewise  wrote  to  Lord  Dart- 
mouth :  "  So  convinced  am  I  of  the  necessity  of  this 
institution,  that  I  am  determined  to  devote  the  remainder 
of  my  political  life  to  the  object  of  establishing  it,  as  the 
greatest  benefit  which  can  be  imparted  to  the  public  ser- 
vice in  India,  and  as  the  best  security  which  can  be  provided 

for  the  welfare  of  our  native  subjects Without 

such  a  system  of  discipline  and  study  in  the  early  educa- 
tion of  the  civil  service,  it  will  be  utterly  impossible  to 
maintain  our  extensive  empire  in  India.  The  College  must 
stand,  or  the  empire  must  fall."  But  the  College  has 
fallen,  and  the  empire  stands.  Of  the  noble  institution 
which  Lord  Wellesley  founded  with  such  zeal  and  patri- 
otism nothing  remains  but  the  shadow  of  a  name,  while 
the  empire  has  expanded  beyond  all  anticipation.     Lord 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1802.]  HISTOBY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  171 

Wellesley's  views  with  regard  to  this  particular  institution 
may  not,  it  is  true,  have  stood  the  test  of  experience ;  but 
they  were  admirably  suited  to  the  exigencies  of  a  period 
when  the  members  of  the  civil  service  received  no  specific 
training  or  preparation  for  the  important  duties  entrusted 
to  them.     The  Court  of  Directors,  too  much  fettered  by 
the  traditions  of  a  commercial  corporation,  sent  out  nothing 
to  India  but  the  raw  material  —  apprentices   from  the 
counting-house,  or  youths  prematurely  withdrawn  from  the 
public  schools.   Lord  Wellesley  considered  it  indispensable 
that  suitable  provision  should  be  made  for  judiciously  and 
skilfully  working  up  this  material  into  magistrates  and 
collectors,  judges  and  ambassadors.      For  the  period  at 
which  the  College  was  established,  it  was  an  institution  of 
prime  necessity,  and  afforded  the  clearest  proof  of  the  ex- 
tent to  which  Lord  Wellesley  was  in  advance  of  the  age. 
To  him  belongs  the  honour  of  having  laid  the  foundation 
of  that  enlightened  system  of  administration  which,  in  spite 
of  all  detraction,  has  shed  a  lustre  on  the  British  name. 
He  was  the  first  to  demonstrate  the  necessity  of  qualifying 
the  servants  of  the  State  in  India  for  their  public  duties 
by  a  sound  and  generous  education.     The  Court  of  Di- 
rectors are  said  to  have  thought  of  such  a  plan  in  1797  ; 
but  it  slumbered  in  the  drowsy  atmosphere  of  Leadenhall 
Street,  and  was  never  brought  to  any  practical  issue  till 
the  establishment  of  the  College  of  Fort  William  awoke 
the  Directors  to  the  recognition  and  the  application  of  the 
principle. 

On  the  19th  of  July,  the  settlement  of  Serampore  was 
restored  to  the  Danish  authorities,  after  it  had  been  held 
by  the  British  Government  about  fourteen  Mr.  Ma«hwi 
months.  Towards  the  end  of  the  month,  Morad,  TWt  to  JeMore- 
a  Mahoraedan,  arrived  at  Serampore,  deputed  by  his  friends 
in  Jessore  to  invite  the  missionaries  to  visit  them.  Mr. 
Marshman  determined  to  undertake  the  journey  in  com- 
pany with  two  of  the  converts.  On  reaching  their  desti- 
nation, they  were  cordially  welcomed  by  the  inquirers; 


Digitized  by 


Google 


172  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPOBB  MISSION.      [Chat.  1H. 

and  a  large  body  of  Hindoos  and  Mahomedans  was  speedily 
collected  together,  who  listened  to  the  Gospel-message  with 
much  attention,  and  entered  into  long  discussions  with  the 
two  itinerants.     The  next  morning,  Mr.  Marshman  pro- 
ceeded to  Gobrapore,   the  residence  of  an  opulent  and 
bigoted   community  of  brahmins,   who    manifested    the 
strongest  repugnance  to  the  Gospel;  and,  as  discussion 
only  appeared  to  create  irritation,  Mr.  Marshman  hastened 
to  retire,  making  them  an  offer  of  tracts,  which,  however, 
they  tore  up  before  his  face.     From  thence  he  went  to 
Garapata,  where  about  two  hundred  men  had  separated 
equally  from  Hindooism  and  Mahomedanism,  and  now  re- 
ceived the  truths  of  the  Bible  with  simplicity  and  meek- 
ness.    "  I  never,"  he  wrote  to  his  brethren,  "  saw  any 
Hindoos,  except  in  the  family  of  Krishnu,  listen  to  the 
Gospel  like  these  people.     Their  affectionate  conduct  to 
me  I  never  saw  exceeded,  even  by  brethren  in  England. 
They  offered  me  a  kid,  or  a  young  pig,  or  any  thing  else 
I  wanted.     I  only  took  a  little  milk."     Three  days  were 
passed  among  these  simple-hearted  men,  and  Mr.  Marsh- 
man then  commenced  his  journey  back  to  Serampore; 
but,  on  reaching  the  village  of  Chundooreah,  he  heard  of  a 
native,   Seeb-ram-dass,  who  had  rejected  idolatry,  esta- 
blished a  new  sect,  and  collected  nearly  twenty  thousand 
followers-     Mr.  Marshman  sent  the  gooroo  a  note  in  Eng- 
lish and  Bengalee,  and  then  proceeded  to  his  residence, 
which  presented  an  appearance  of  ease  and  prosperity, 
though  without  the  splendour  of  the  Ghospara  heresiarch. 
The  old  nlan,  who  was  seated  on  a  blanket  under  a  tree, 
received  Mr.  Marshman  with  great  courtesy,  and  ordered 
a  mat  to  be  spread  for  him.     Many  of  his  disciples  were 
ranged  round  him,  to  whom  Mr.  Marshman  preached  the 
truths  of  Christian  Revelation  for  two  hours,  so  acceptably 
that  he  was  requested  to  remain.     The  son  of  the  gooroo 
then  conducted  him  to  a  small  outhouse,  where  he  passed 
the  night  on  a  clean  mat  which  was  spread  for  him  on  the 
floor.     The  next  morning,  the  old  man  invited  him  to 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1*02.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  173 

another  conference  in  the  garden,  which  had  been  swept 
for  the  occasion.  A  blanket  was  placed  for  the  spiritual 
guide  and  an  old  chair  for  his  European  guest.  An 
animated  discussion  was  maintained  for  several  hours, 
and  at  midday  Mr.  Marshman  was  invited  to  a  repast  of 
rice,  fish,  and  plantains ;  but,  as  there  was  neither  spoon 
nor  fork,  he  was  obliged  to  adopt  the  native  fashion  of 
using  his  fingers.  He  left  several  hundred  tracts  with 
the  gooroo  and  his  people,  and,  procuring  a  dooly,  the 
humblest  of  native  litters,  and  a  set  of  bearers,  returned 
to  Serampore.  No  sooner,  however,  had  he  left  that  part 
of  the  country  than  the  brahmins  of  Gobrapore  tore  the 
tracts  he  had  left  them,  and  hung  up  the  pieces  at  the 
doors  of  those  who  had  ventured  to  receive  them,  not 
without  the  addition  of  some  scurrilous  placards.  About 
a  month  after,  the  inquirers  from  Luckphool,  in  Jessore, 
again  came  to  Serampore,  and  requested  the  missionaries 
to  repeat  their  visit.  *  Mr.  Ward  and  Mr.  Carey's  second 
son  accordingly  went  into  the  district,  and  spent  four 
days  in  preaching  and  in  conversation  with  the  people, 
and  distributed  numerous  tracts.  On  their  return  to 
Serampore,  they  found  three  men  who  were  the  bearers  of 
a  letter  from  Seeb-ram-dass,  propounding  the  difficulties 
he  had  met  with  in  the  Scripture  plan  of  salvation,  and 
asking  for  explanations,  which  were  cheerfully  sent.  This 
eagerness  of  inquiry  induced  the  missionaries  to  place 
one  of  the  converts  at  a  station  on  the  borders  of  the  dis- 
trict of  Jessore.  The  aged  Petumber  was  accordingly 
sent  to  Sooksagur,  but  he  experienced  the  most  deter- 
mined resistance  from  the  brahmins  of  the  place,  who 
were  resolved  that  he  should  not  obtain  a  footing  among 
them,  and  effectually  prevented  his  obtaining  ground  for 
a  house.  A  wealthy  and  liberal-minded  Roman  Catholic 
merchant  of  Calcutta,  Mr.  Joseph  Baretto,  who  then 
occupied  a  magnificent  house  at  Sooksagur,  since  washed 
away  by  the  encroachments  of  the  river,  made  over  a  piece 


Digitized  by 


Google 


174  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  III. 

of  ground  to  him,  and  promised  him  all  the  assistance  in 
his  power. 

Another  token  was  at  this  time  exhibited  of  the  absence 
of  sectarian  bigotry  which  characterised  that  early  period 
fit*  movement  of  Indian  society.  Mr.  Brown,  the  senior  chap- 
5£?  inly,  lain  at  the  Presidency,  called  on  Mr.  Carey  in 
mti&*  his  rooms  at  the  College,  and  expressed  a  desire 

that  facilities  should  be  created  for  communicating  reli- 
gious instruction  to  the  lower  classes  of  Christians  in  Cal- 
cutta, and  inquired  why  the  missionaries  could  not  be 
prevailed  on  to  turn  their  attention  to  this  subject.  He 
replied  that  he  and  his  brethren  had  long  wished  to  esta- 
blish some  place  of  worship  for  the  benefit  of  those  who, 
though  bearing  the  Christian  name,  were  too  low  in  the 
scale  of  society  to  intrude  into  the  patrician  congregations 
of  the  Mission  Church  and  the  Presidency  Church,  but 
were  apprehensive  of  giving  umbrage  to  Government. 
Mr.  Brown  assured  him  that  these  fears  were  groundless, 
and  that  Lord  Wellesley  had  contemplated  the  transfer  of 
the  Presidency  Church  to  Presbyterian  ministers,  whom 
he  was  anxious  to  introduce  into  Calcutta,  and  the  erec- 
tion of  a  larger  and  more  splendid  edifice  for  the  Episco- 
palians. Mr.  Buchanan  likewise  urged  on  the  missionaries 
the  establishment  of  a  Dissenting  chapel  in  Calcutta,  assur- 
ing them  that  he  and  Mr.  Brown  would  use  every  effort 
to  prevent  any  opposition  on  the  part  of  Government, 
which,  however,  was  not  to  be  apprehended.  Towards 
the  close  of  this  year,  1802,  the  Serampore  missionaries 
remark  that  they  had  now  thirteen  native  communicants 
in  the  Church  and  eight  inquirers.  They  had  compiled 
a  little  volume  of  Hymns,  which  were  sung,  partly  to  native 
and  partly  to  English  tunes,  and  had  printed  twenty-two 
thousand  tracts.  Their  mode  of  proclaiming  the  message 
of  the  Gospel  is  thus  described  in  their  quarterly  letter  to 
the  Society :  "  When  the  sun  is  going  down,  one  of  us, 
taking  some  tracts  in  his  hand,  goes  out  into  some  part  of 
Serampore,  or  its  neighbourhood,  talks  to  the  people,  and 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1802.]  HISTORY  07  THE  8ERAMP0RE  MISSION.  175 

distributes  the  papers ;  another  does  the  same  in  another 
direction ;  while  a  third  goes  one  evening  to  the  Bengalee 
school-house  or  meeting,  another  evening  to  Krishnu's 
little  meeting-house,  which  will  hold  about  forty  people. 
After  this,  our  Hindoo  friends,  except  the  women  (and 
they  attend  two  or  three  times  a  week),  came  every  even- 
ing to  our  house.  In  our  family  worship,  the  chapter  in 
the  Old  Testament,  after  being  read  in  English,  is  trans- 
lated off-hand  and  read  in  Bengalee.  On  Tuesday  and 
Thursday  evenings,  after  family  worship,  we  have  a  short 
meeting  with  them  for  prayer  and  conversation  ;  and,  on 
Friday  evenings,  an  experience  meeting.  On  the  Lord's 
day,  we  have  three  public  services  in  Bengalee ;  twice  at 
the  meeting-houses  or  huts,  and  once  at  our  own  house. 
When  we  go  to  a  distance,  we  travel,  eat,s  and  sleep  in  a 
boat ;  and  going  from  place  to  place,  we  preach  and  dis- 
tribute books." 


Digitized  by 


Google 


176  HISTOBY  OP  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  IV. 


CHAP.  IV. 

At  the  commencement  of  the  year  1803,  the  missionaries 
baptised  the  first  brahmin,  an  amiable  and  intelligent  youth 
Baptiim  of  the  ot  the  name  of  Krishnu-prisad.  He  came  from 
im  Mod*  Dehatta>  the  village  in  the  Soonderbuns,  where 
Mr.  Carey  has  taken  up  his  residence  in  1794 ;  and  he 
likewise  was  attracted  to  Serampore  by  one  of  the  tracts 
which  Mr.  Ward  had  distributed  during  his  tour.  Before 
his  baptism,  he  trampled  on  his  poita,  or  sacred  thread, 
to  indicate  his  rejection  of  the  creed  with  which  it  was 
associated,  and  then  placed  it  in  Mr.  Ward's  hands,  who 
records  in  his  journal,  "  this  is  a  more  precious  relic  than 
any  the  Church  of  Rome  could  boast  of."  Mr.  Ward  gave 
him  money  to  purchase  another.  Simple  and  unimportant 
as  this  act  of  Krishnu-prisad  may  appear,  it  was  impossible 
for  a  brahmin  more  unequivocally  to  manifest  his  contempt 
of  the  creed  of  which  he  had  been  a  minister.  The  poita 
is  consecrated  by  holy  texts  before  it  is  put  on ;  the  cere- 
mony of  investiture  is  considered  equivalent  to  a  second  or 
spiritual  birth ;  the  young  priest  becomes  one  of  the  "  twice 
born,"  and  is  immediately  placed  on  an  equality  with  the 
gods,  and  receives  the  servile  homage  of  all  other  classes 
of  Hindoos.  For  twenty  centuries,  it  has  been  the  great 
object  of  the  Hindoo  hierarchy  to  magnify  the  glory  of 
brahminhood,  of  which  the  poita  is  the  emblem.  But  Mr. 
Carey  and  his  colleagues  did  not  at  that  time  consider  it 
necessary  to  insist  on  a  brahmin's  divesting  himself  of  his 
thread,  which  they  considered  as  much  a  token  of  social 
distinction,  as  of  spiritual  supremacy.  The  converts  were 
therefore  baptized  and  preached  to  their  fellow-countrymen 
with  the  poita  across  the  shoulder.     This  practice  gave 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1808.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORB  MISSION.  17? 

great  umbrage  to  the  Hindoo  priesthood;  and,  on  one 
occasion,  the  wealthy  natives  of  Serampore  lodged  a  com- 
plaint on  this  ground  in  the  magistrate's  court,  and  de- 
manded that  he  should  restrain  those  who  had  renounced 
Hindooism  from  appearing  in  the  poita;  but  he  rejected 
their  petition.  The  missionaries,  in  their  anxiety  not  to 
interfere  unnecessarily  with  the  national  habits  and  cus- 
toms of  the  converts,  did  not  deem  it  necessary  to  make 
any  rule  on  the  subject.  The  brahmin  convert  continued 
to  wear  the  thread  for  nearly  three  years  after  his  baptism, 
and  then  he,  and  another  convert  of  the  same  class,  re- 
nounced it  voluntarily.  Mr.  Ward  remarks,  on  this  event,. 
"  How  much  better  is  love  and  illumination  than  force  t 
If  we  had  compelled  these  brethren  to  leave  off  their  poitas, 
perhaps  they  might  have  been  attached  to  them  while  they 
lived."  But  regarding  the  distinctions  of  caste,  the  Seram- 
pore missionaries  had  determined,  from  the  origin  of  the  ^ 
Mission,  to  admit  of  no  compromise.  They  knew  that  the 
missionaries  on  the  Coast  had  timidly  and  most  injudiciously 
consented  to  the  perpetuation  of  caste  among  their  con- 
verts. This  institution,  which  might  be  considered  as  the 
great  bulwark  of  Hindooism,  the  converts  had  been  per- 
mitted to  take  with  them  into  the  Christian  church,  and 
this  idolatrous  distinction  had  been  allowed  to  intrude  it- 
self into  the  solemnities  of  the  holy  communion ;  the  brah- 
min Christian  received  the  elements  before  the  soodra 
Christian,  and  the  cup  of  blessing  was  thus  converted  into 
a  chalice  of  abomination.  On  the  baptism  of  the  first 
brahmin,  Mr.  Carey  and  his  colleagues  were  called  to  fix 
the  rule  of  practice  on  this  point  at  the  celebration  of  the 
Lord's  Supper,  and  they  resolved  to  exterminate  every 
vestige  of  caste  from  the  Christian  community  they  were  > 
rearing  up,  and  the  brahmin  received  the  bread  and  wine  ^ 
after  the  carpenter  Krishnu. 

On  the  23rd  of  January,  1803,  the  missionaries  com- 
menced divine  service  in  the  English  language,  in  a  room 
they  had   taken  in  Calcutta  at  the   exorbitant  rent  of 

VOL.  I.  N 


Digitized  by 


Google 


178  BISTORT  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  IV. 

115?.  a  year,  but  with  the  exception  of  a  few  of  their  own 
Christian  friends,  there  was  scarcely  any  attendance.  They 
First  preaching  subsequently  engaged  another  room  on  more 
in  Calcutta.  reasonable  terms,  where  they  continued  to 
preach  till  the  chapel  in  the  Bow  Bazar  was  opened  in  1809. 
The  day  after  Mr.  Carey  had  preached  his  first  sermon  in 
Calcutta,  the  missionaries  were  agreeably  surprised  by  the 
arrival  of  Mr.  John  Chamberlain,  who  had  been  sent  from 
ArrwaiofMr.  England  to  join  the  Mission.  He  had  been  re- 
chamberiain.  ce;Ved  as  a  probationer  for  missionary  work  by 
the  Society  in  September,  1798,  at  the  age  of  twenty-one, 
at  the  same  time  with  Mr.  Brunsdon,  and  was  placed  under 
the  tuition  of  the  Rev.  John  Sutcliff,  at  Olney ;  from  thence 
he  was  removed  to  the  Academy  at  Bristol,  and,  after  four 
years  of  study,  was  finally  accepted  as  a  missionary,  and 
embarked  for  India  in  an  American  vessel.  He  was  a  man 
of  robust  form,  great  energy  of  character,  not  unaccom- 
panied with  waywardness,  and  capable  of  intense  applica- 
tion and  labour.  At  Bristol,  he  sometimes  devoted  nineteen 
hours  consecutively  to  study ;  and,  during  his  subsequent 
career  in  India,  frequently  engaged  for  five  hours  on  a 
stretch  hr  addressing  and  reasoning  with  the  heathen.  Mr. 
Ward  went  down  to  the  vessel  to  welcome  his  new  colleague, 
and  they  landed  together  at  Calcutta,  and  proceeded  to 
Mr.  Carey's  lodgings.  "  We  have  no  longer,"  writes  Mr. 
Ward  in  his  journal,  "  any  dread  of  Calcutta."  Mr.  Cham- 
berlain's name  was  sent  in  to  the  police,  but  no  attempt 
was  made  to  interrupt  him,  and  he  was  allowed  at  once 
to  join  the  missionary  establishment  at  Serampore:  the 
Governor-General  was  Lord  Wellesley. 

At  the  beginning  of  1803,  the  missionaries  had  made 
considerable  progress  in  the  preparation  of  a  fount  of 
punch-cut«ng  Deva  Nagree  types.  The  Deva  Nagree  is  the 
at  serampore.  parent  0f  all  the  various  Indian  alphabets,  and, 
according  to  mythological  tradition,  the  special  gift  of  the 
gods.  This  was  the  first  fount  of  this  type  which  had  been 
attempted  in  India.     Soon  after  the  establishment  of  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1808.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SEEAMPORB  MISSION.  179 

press  at  Serampore,  the  native  blacksmith  Punchanon, 
who  had  been  instructed  in  the  art  of  punch-cutting  by 
Sir  Charles  Wilkins,  to  whom  allusion  has  been  made 
in  a  former  chapter,  came  to  the  missionaries  in  search 
of  employment.  Mr.  Carey  was  then  contemplating  a 
Sanscrit  Grammar,  for  which  it  was  necessary  to  obtain 
Nagree  types,  and  Punchanon  was  immediately  engaged 
for  the  work.  Owing  to  the  large  number  of  compound 
letters  in  the  Deva  Nagree,  the  fount  required  seven 
hundred  separate  punches,  of  which  about  one  half  had 
been  completed  at  the  beginning  of  the  present  year.  To 
accelerate  the  progress  of  the  work,  Punchanon  was  ad- 
vised to  take  as  an  assistant  a  youth  of  the  same  caste 
and  craft,  of  the  name  of  Monohor,  an  expert  and  elegant 
workman,  who  was  subsequently  employed  for  forty  years 
at  the  Serampore  press,  and  to  whose  exertions  and  in- 
structions Bengal  is  indebted  for  the  various  beautiful 
founts  of  the  Bengalee,  Nagree,  Persian,  Arabic,  and  other 
characters  which  have  been  gradually  introduced  into 
the  different  printing  establishments.  While  engaged  in 
cutting  the  Nagree  punches,  Punchanon  also  completed 
a  fount  of  Bengalee,  smaller  in  size,  and  of  more  elegant 
form  than  that  which  had  been  used  in  the  first  edition  of 
the  Bengalee  New  Testament.  That  edition  had  now 
been  distributed,  and  a  second  was  called  for. 

In  1 798,  Mr.  Carey  had  proposed  to  Mr.  Fuller  to  print, 
in  the  first  instance,  an  impression  of  10,000  copies  of  the 
New  Testament.  He  was  a  stranger  to  the  dif- 
ficulties of  the  undertaking,  and  placed  undue  o?th™BengHieen 
confidence  in  the  accuracy  of  his  translation. 
He  was  now,  however,  so  fully  convinced  of  the  improve- 
ments of  which  successive  editions  must  be  susceptible,  that 
he  proposed  to  limit  the  edition  to  1000  copies.  It  was  not 
so  much  an  improvement  on  the  first  version  as  a  new 
translation.  "  The  alterations,"  he  writes  to  Mr.  Fuller, 
"are  great  and  numerous, not  so  much  in  what  related  to  the 
meaning  as  to  the  construction.    I  hope  it  will  be  tolerably 

N  2 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


180  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.IV. 

correct,  as  every  proof-sheet- is  revised  by  us  all,  and  com- 
pared as  exactly  with  the  original  as  brother  Marshman  and 
I  are  capable  of,  and  subject  to  the  opinions  and  animadver- 
sions of  several  pundits."  The  construction  of  the  sentences 
in  the  first  edition,  which  the  flattery  of  the  pundits  had  pro- 
nounced to  be  perfect,  was  so  entirely  at  variance  with  the 
idiom  of  the  language  that  the  work  was  barely  intel- 
ligible. In  many  cases,  it  presented  a  simple  translation  of 
the  English  words  arranged  in  the  English  order  of  collo- 
cation. But  this  translation  was  made  in  the  jungles  of 
Mudnabatty,  where  Mr.  Carey  possessed  none  of  those 
advantages  for  the  cultivation  of  the  language  which  he 
enjoyed  on  his  removal  to  Serampore,  and  more  especially 
since  his  appointment  to  the  College  of  Fort  William.  In 
that  institution  more  than  fifty  of  the  most  eminent  scho- 
lars of  the  East  were  collected  together,  and  it  was  in 
this  association  that  he  was  enabled  to  discover  the  genius 
of  Oriental  philology  and  the  true  principles  of  transla- 
tion. At  the  head  of  the  establishment  of  pundits  stood 
Mritunjoy,  who,  although  a  native  of  Orissa,  usually  re- 
garded as  the  Boeotia  of  the  country,  was  a  colossus  of 
literature.  He  bore  a  strong  resemblance  to  our  great 
lexicographer,  not  only  by  his  stupendous  acquirements 
and  the  soundness  of  his  critical  judgment,  but  also  in  his 
rough  features  and  unwieldy  figure.  His  knowledge  of 
the  Sanscrit  classics  was  unrivalled,  and  his  Bengalee  com- 
position has  never  been  surpassed  for  ease,  simplicity,  and 
vigour.  Mr.  Carey  sat  under  his  instructions  two  or  three 
hours  daily  when  in  Calcutta,  and  the  effect  of  this  inter- 
course was  speedily  visible  in  the  superior  accuracy  and 
purity  of  his  translations. 

On  the  3rd  of  April,  the  missionaries  baptized  Ram- 
rutun,  an  amiable  youth  of  the  writer  caste,  of  very  re- 
FirrtmwTiaw     spectable  connections  in  Calcutta.     The  next 

among  the  coo,         * 


vert*, 


day  the  first  marriage  was  solemnised  among 
their  converts,  between  Erishnu-prisad,  the  brahmin,  and 
the  daughter  of  Krishnu?  the  first  convert.     The  event  was 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1803J  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  181 

more  particularly  interesting,  as  another  step  towards  that 
entire  obliteration  of  the  caste  distinctions  which  the  mis* 
sionaries  were  so  anxious  to  effect.  For  the  celebration 
of  the  wedding  in  the  presence  of  the  natives,  mats  had 
been  spread  and  chairs  placed  under  a  tree  in  front  of 
Krishnu's  house.  Mr.  Carey  sat  at  a  little  table,  and,  after 
a  brief  explanatory  address,  read  some  appropriate 
passages  of  Scripture,  and  then  the  short  and  simple 
marriage  service  which  he  had  compiled  in  Bengalee.  The 
bride  and  bridegroom  then  plighted  their  faith  to  each 
other,  and  signed  the  agreement,  the  first,  Mr.  Ward  ob- 
serves, to  which  a  Hindoo  female  had  probably  put  her 
name  for  many  centuries.  It  was  attested  by  all  the 
missionaries  as  witnesses.  The  ceremony  was  conducted 
with  great  -  decorum,  and  produced  a  feeling  of  general 
satisfaction  on  the  minds  of  those  who  were  present.  In 
the  evening,  the  missionaries  went  to  the  wedding  supper 
given  by  the  father  of  the  bride.  On  no  previous  occasion 
had  they  partaken  of  a  meal  at  the  house  of  a  native  convert. 
The  dishes  were  prepared  in  the  native  style,  and  served 
up  according  to  eastern  custom.  The  repast  began  with 
the  singing  of  Krishnu's  hymn,  which  is  still  a  favourite 
in  missionary  circles,  and  ended  with  prayer.  "  This," 
writes  Mr.  Ward,  "  was  a  glorious  triumph  over  caste. 
A  brahmin  married  to  a  soodra,  and  in  a  Christian  form." 
But  though  this  wedding  excited  the  most  pleasing 
sensations  in  the  minds  of  the  missionaries,  it  may  be 
doubtful  how  far  it  was  strictly  valid  in  law,  though  its 
legitimacy  would  never  have  been  questioned  by  Govern- 
ment. It  was  only  in  the  year  1852,  nearly  half  a  century 
after  the  celebration  of  the  first  marriage  of  two  Hindoo 
converts  by  a  Dissenting  missionary,  that  such  marriages 
have  been  legalised  by  statute,  and  the  offspring  of  the 
union  protected  from  the  odium  of  bastardy.  When 
Christians  talk  of  the  strength  of  native  prejudices,  it  would 
be  well  to  remember  how  much  easier  it  was  found  to  break 
through  the  strongest  prejudices  in  India,  and  marry  a 

n  3 


Digitized  by 


Google 


182  HISTORY  OP  THE  SERAMPOEB  MISSION.      [Chap.  IV. 

brahmin  to  a  soodra,  than  to  overcome  the  Christian  pre- 
judices of  sectarian  caste,  and  place  the  pious  Dissenting 
missionary  on  the  same  footing  with  his  Episcopal  fellow- 
labourer. 

A  week  after  the  marriage,  Mr.  Ward  records  in  his 
journal:  —  "A  horrible  day, — the  Churuk  poojah,  and 

three  women  burnt  with  their  husbands  on  one 
«ndesutwrit      pile,  near  our  house."     How  gratifying  to  the 

Christian  philanthropist  is  the  contrast  now 
presented  to  this  picture  !  Female  immolation  has  ceased 
to  exist  through  the  whole  extent  of  the  British  dominions 
in  India,  and  where,  fifty  years  ago,  fifteen,  and  often 
twenty  men,  and,  in  some  instances,  even  women,  frantic 
with  superstition  and  drugs,  were  swinging  by  hooks  in 
their  backs,  in  the  presence  of  the  native  gentry,  annually 
congregated  for  the  occasion,  and  amidst  the  shouts  of  an 
excited  mob,  scarcely  an  instance  of  these  orgies  is  to  be 
seen  at  the  present  day ;  and  the  improvement  of  public 
opinion  in  native  society  has  anticipated  the  legal  prohi- 
bition of  these  degrading  scenes.  While  the  impression 
created  by  the  marriage  of  the  first  native  Christian 
female,  and  the  immolation  of  three  Hindoo  widows,  was 
fresh  in  his  memory,  Mr.  Ward  wrote  thus  to  Dr.  Ey- 
land:  —  "Be  assured  that  whatever  Europeans  may  say 
about  the  impossibility  of  converting  the  Hindoos,  there 
wants  nothing  more,  as  it  respects  human  means,  but  a 
few  men  of  gifts  and  real  powerful  godliness.  Hindoos 
and  Mahomedans  will  as  surely  fall  under  the  doctrine 
of  the  Cross  as  Greenlanders  and  Hottentots.  The  reason 
why  this  work  has  never  been  done  yet  is,  because  the 
means  have  never  been  suited  to  the  end.  It  will  be 
vain  to  expect  that  the  Gospel  will  ever  spread  widely  in 

this  country,  till  God  so  blesses  the  means  as 
m  T«prw  en.  ^^  native  men  shall  be  raised  up,  who  will 
carry  the  despised  doctrine,  brought  into  the  country  by 
the  Mlechas,  into  the  very  teeth  of  the  brahmins,  and  prove 
from  the  Scriptures  that  this  is  indeed  the  Christ  that 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1803.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPOBE  MISSION.  183 

should  come  into  the  world*  We  hope  we  see  the  dawn 
of  this.  I  have  constantly  made  it  a  point  of  recommend- 
ing the  making  of  native  preachers  as  soon  as  possible ; 
and  I  hope  we  may  soon  see  two  or  three,  who  are  at 
least  more  able  and  eloquent  than  some  good  men  who 
are  employed  in  England."  It  was  to  this  plan  of  training 
up  Christian  itinerants,  retaining  all  the  simplicity  of 
their  national  habits,  having  ready  access  to  the  minds 
and  hearts  of  their  countrymen,  and  preaching  in  their 
own  mother  tongue,  that  the  attention  of  the  mission- 
aries was  henceforward  directed.  It  was  to  this  agency 
they  looked  for  naturalising  Christianity  in  India.  It  is 
lamentable  to  reflect  that  no  systematic  effort  has  been 
made  by  any  missionary  body  to  carry  out  these  sound 
views  during  the  subsequent  half  century  of  missionary 
labours,  and  that  the  attention  of  missionary  societies  has 
been  too  prominently  directed  to  the  multiplication  of 
European  labourers.  It  is  scarcely  possible  to  estimate 
the  impression  which  might  have  been  produced  in  the 
country,  if  it  had  been  made  the  primary  object  of  solici- 
tude to  strengthen  every  missionary  circle  in  India  with 
a  large  body  of  native  itinerants,  under  European  super- 
intendence. 

In  the  month  of  May,  the  missionaries  received  infor- 
mation from  Jessore  that  Bharut-ghose,  one  of  the  in- 
quirers, had  been  seized  by  a  public  officer, 

i        .       .  -»  ,  .  •  i        /^  i  J     Mr.  Marthman'i 

who  insisted  on  his  renouncing  the  Gospel,  and  ^£J°unM5yta 
paying  a  fine,  or  removing  from  his  village. 
The  missionaries  had  invariably  avoided  any  appeal  to  the 
British  authorities  for  the  protection  of  their  native  con- 
verts. They  felt  that  they  and  their  enterprise  existed 
in  the  country  only  by  sufferance,  and  they  were  unwilling 
to  attract  observation  to  their  efforts.  On  the  present 
occasion,  however,  they  injudiciously  wrote  to  the  judge 
of  the  district,  soliciting  him  to  investigate  the  matter. 
They  received  no  reply ;  and,  on  farther  reflection,  came 
to  the  conclusion  that  they  had  no  right  to  expect  one. 

H  4 


Digitized  by 


Google 


184  HISTOBT  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSIOK.      [Chap.  IV. 

Mr.  Marshman,  therefore,  determined  to  proceed  himself  to 
Jessore  to  strengthen  the  grinds  of  the  inquirers.  It  was 
the  hottest  month  of  the  year,  yet  nothing  could  shake 
his  resolution  when  public  duty  seemed  to  call  him  to 
exertion.  He  went  up  to  Sooksagur  in  a  boat  with  a 
palankeen,  intending  to  cross  the  country  to  the  residence 
of  Bharut,  but  no  bearers  could  be  procured ;  and,  in 
defiance  of  the  dictates  of  prudence,  he  proceeded  on 
foot,  walking  the  whole  day  through  the  blazing  sun  with 
the  thermometer  at  115°.  He  reached  Sreenugur  in  the 
evening,  and  occupied  a  temple  of  Kalee  for  the  night, 
stretching  himself  on  the  plank  on  which  the  image  was 
usually  paraded  through  the  streets.  He  started  again 
before  dawn,  and  reached  Luckphool  about  eight  in  the 
morning  of  Sunday,  but  was  mortified  to  find  the  men 
who  had  given  him  and  his  colleagues  such  fair  hopes  of 
conversion  labouring  in  their  fields.  He  examined  the 
complaint  of  Bharut,  and  advised  him  as  to  the  course  he 
should  pursue;  and,  having  endeavoured  to  encourage 
the  inquirers,  returned  to  Serampore,  performing  the 
journey  again  on  foot,  with  the  exception  of  eight  miles. 
Nothing  but  his  iron  frame  could  have  stood  such  exertion. 
At  the  end  of  April,  in  the  present  year,  the  Rev.  David 
Brown    purchased    a    house,   with    extensive 

Rev.  D.  Brown  t  .  i  /»  /»     o  • 

remote,  to  grounds,  on  the  confines  of  Serampore,  m 
pore.  which  he  continued  to  reside  to  the  period 
of  his  death  in  1812.  He  was  a  man  of  cultivated  mind 
and  exemplary  piety;  and  though  he  did  sometimes 
write  of  Mr.  Carey  that  "  he  dips  his  brahmins  in  the 
river  not  far  from  my  house,"  yet  he  manifested  great 
liberality  of  spirit,  and  entered  with  cordiality  into  the 
views  of  the  missionaries,  sympathising  in  their  alternate 
success  and  disappointment.  A  strong  congeniality  of 
taste  between  him  and  Mr.  Marshman  led  to  such  close 
intimacy  that  the  latter  generally  passed  two  evenings  in 
.the  week  at  Aldeen  House,  as  Mr.  Brown's  residence  was 
called.  Except  on  one  lamentable  occasion  of  difference, 
Mr.  Brown  was  for  nine  years  the  judicious  and  affectionate 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1803.]  HISTORY  07  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  185 

adviser  of  the  missionaries  in  the  successive  difficulties  to 
which  they  were  exposed,  and,  when  not  himself  engaged 
in  pulpit  services  in  Calcutta,  attended  their  ministry  with 
his  family  at  the  Mission  Chapel  at  Serampore.  In  the 
course  of  this  narrative  we  shall  have  frequent  occasion  to 
allude  to  the  intimate  intercourse  which  subsisted  between 
them,  notwithstanding  the  difference  of  their  views  re- 
garding Church  government  and  Christian  baptism. 

On  the  3rd  of  October,  the  missionaries  purchased  a 
piece  of  ground  for  a  cemetery  in  Serampore,  and  they  had 
occasion  to  use  it  four  days  after.  Gokool,  who  Buriaioftheant 
had  been  baptized  some  months  before,  died  Cbriwtan- 
after  a  short  illness,  rejoicing  in  the  hope  of  the  Gospel ; 
and  his  tranquil  and  happy  exit  is  said  to  have  produced 
a  happy  effect  on  the  little  band  of  converts.  As  this  was 
the  first  death  which  had  occurred  among  the  native 
Christians,  it  became  necessary  to  establish  the  form  of 
Christian  burial  in  that  community.  Mr.  Ward  was  then 
on  a  journey  to  Dinagepore,  and  Mr.  Carey  was  attending 
his  College  duties  in  Calcutta ;  it  devolved,  therefore,  on 
Mr.  Marshman  to  direct  the  arrangements,  and  he  deter- 
mined to  create  the  example  of  a  simple  and  inexpensive 
funeral.  A  coffin  was  put  together  on  the  Mission  pre* 
mises,  and  taken  to  the*  house  of  Erishnu,  who  covered  it, 
at  his  own  expense,  with  white  muslin.  At  the  interment 
of  Christians  in  the  town,  it  had  been  usual  to  employ  six 
or  eight  of  the  lowest  class  of  Portuguese,  commonly  called 
"  pobrees,"  to  convey  the  corpse  to  the  grave.  They  were 
too  frequently  drunk  and  disorderly,  and  their  irregular 
movements  and  mutual  bickerings  on  the  road  deprived 
the  event  of  all  solemnity.  "  But,"  writes  Mr.  Marshman, 
"  besides  that  our  friends  could  not  constantly  sustain  such 
an  expense,  I  wished  exceedingly  to  convince  them  of  the 
propriety  of  doing  that  last  kind  office  for  a  brother  them- 
selves." There  was,  however,  no  little  hesitation  on  the 
part  of  the  converts  to  appear  in  the  public  street,  in 
the  same  character  as  the  degraded  pobrees.  Among  the 
Hindoos,  brahmins  carry  the  body  of  a  brahmin  to  the 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


186  HISTORY  OT  THE  SBRAMPORB  MISSION*      [Chap.  17. 

funeral  pile,  and  each  rank  of  soodras  conveys  that  of  its 
own  caste ;  but  a  soodra  may  not  touch  the  dead  body  of  a 
brahmin,  nor  can  a  brahmin  touch  the  corpse  of  a  soodra, 
without  incurring  the  necessity  of  purification.  Hence 
it  was  considered  one  of  the  most  remarkable  triumphs 
over  native  prejudice  when  the  brahmin  students  of  the 
Medical  College  in  Calcutta,  about  twenty  years  ago,  con- 
sented, for  the  first  time,  to  handle  a  dead  body  in  the 
dissecting-room.  The  missionaries  had  set  to  themselves 
the  task  of  breaking  down  these  distinctions  and  prejudices 
of  caste,  both  in  life  and  death,  and  they  were  anxious  to 
establish  a  conviction  in  the  minds  of  the  native  Christians 
that  they  were  all  of  one  blood,  whatever  might  have  been 
their  previous  rank  in  the  circle  of  idolatry.  Mr.  Marsh- 
man  undertook  this  duty  on  this  occasion  with  his  usual 
resolution,  and,  to  overrule  all  objections,  determined  to 
assist  in  carrying  the  coffin  himself.  At  five  in  the  after- 
noon, he  repaired  to  the  house  of  Krishnu,  where  all  the 
converts  of  both  sexes  were  assembled,  together  with  a 
large  body  of  the  heathen.  There,  in  the  presence  of  a 
silent  and  astonished  multitude,  Mr.  Marshman  and  Mr. 
Felix  Carey,  Bhyrub,  a  baptized  brahmin,  and  Peeroo,  a 
baptized  Mahomedan,  placed  the  coffin  on  their  shoulders, 
and  singing  the  Bengalee  hymn,  "  Salvation  through  the 
death  of  Christ,"  carried  it  through  the  streets  to  the  new 
burial-ground,  which  received  its  first  tenant  under  these 
interesting  circumstances.  This  procedure  may  be  con- 
sidered as  having  completed  the  abolition  of  caste  among 
the  native  Christian  community.  It  commenced  with  the 
extinction  of  all  difference  of  caste  in  partaking  of  the 
Lord's  Supper ;  it  was  farther  advanced  by  the  marriage 
of  a  brahmin  to  the  daughter  of  a  soodra;  and  was  now 
consummated  by  the  Conveyance  of  the  body  of  a  soodra 
to  the  grave  by  one  of  pure  brahminical  blood. 

Mr.  Ward's  strength  having  been  impaired  by  his  un- 
remitted labours,  he  was  advised  to  make  a  trip  on  the 
river,  and  he  resolved  to  visit  Mr.  Fernandez  at  Dinage- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1803.]  HISTORY  OF   THE  SERAMPpRE  MISSION,  187 

pore.  On  the  occasion  of  his  journey  to  that  part  of  the 
country  in  1799,  he  had  been  obliged  to  travel  under  the 
safeguard  of  a  Danish  passport,  but  the  friendly  ^  Ward,a 
feeling  of  Lord  Wellesley  to  the  Mission  ren-  *>  Diwgepore. 
dered  such  a  precaution  unnecessary,  and  he  applied  to 
the  British  Government  for  a  passport,  which  was  granted 
without  hesitation.  Mr.  Ward  preached  and  distributed 
tracts  in  the  various  villages  which  he  visited  on  his  route. 
"  Every  conversation,"  he  remarks  in  his  journal,  "  which 
I  have  with  the  natives,  makes  me  perceive  more  and  more 
at  what  an  immense  distance  these  multitudes  are  from 
embracing  Christian  truth.  Their  prejudices,  habits,  caste, 
aversion  to  English  manners,  and  ignorance  of  the  religion 
of  nature  and  conscience,  prove  that  God  only  can  make 
them  put  on  the  profession  of  Christ  in  sincerity.  Yet 
still  the  work  seems  nearer  than  ever.  Who  can  despair? 
1  God's  eternal  thought  moves  on,'  and  miracles  have  been 
performed  already."  At  length  he  reached  Mudnabatty, 
where  he  had  first  met  Mr.  Carey  four  years  before. 
"When  I  beheld,"  he  writes,  "the  ragged  skeleton  of 
brother  Fountain's  bungalow,  it  preached  a  forcible  ser- 
mon in  connection  with  the  dissolution  of  its  owner.  The 
remembrance  of  Thomas  Powell,  and  the  unprofitableness 
of  this  people,  after  seven  years'  culture,  made  it  altogether 
a  melancholy  scene.  Mr.  Carey's  house  is  fast  going  to 
decay,  and  the  walls  are  chalked  with  the  odious  figures 
of  Hindoo  gods."  Mr.  Ward  passed  many  pleasant  days 
with  Mr.  Fernandez,  and  the  native  itinerants  who  accom- 
panied him  lost  no  opportunity  of  preaching  the  Gospel  to 
their  fellow-countrymen.  In  the  course  of  a  morning's 
ride  he  passed  the  grave  of  a  former  judge  of  the  district; 
and  it  may  serve  to  illustrate  the  loose  morality  which 
prevailed  in  European  society  at  that  early  period  to  note, 
that,  to  gratify  his  native  mistress,  he  directed  that  his 
body  should  be  partly  burnt,  in  accordance  with  native 
custom,  and  partly  buried. 

Mr.  Ward  returned  to  Serampore  on  the  16th  of  De* 


Digitized  by 


Google 


188  HISTORT  OP  THE  SEBAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  IV. 

cember,  and  Mr.  Marshman  soon  after  proceeded  on  a 

missionary  tour  to  Jessore  with  Krishnu  and  several  other 

native  converts.      They  visited  the  different 

"Mr    Mwihmin'i 

missionary  tour  villages  which  had  given  a  favourable  recep- 
tion  to  the  Gospel;  and  the  narrative  of  Mr. 
Marshman's  journey  is  among  the  most  interesting  of 
the  early  records  of  the  Mission.  One  little  circum- 
stance merits  notice,  as  characteristic  of  his  disposition 
and  feelings.  After  crossing  the  Bhyrub,  perceiving  that 
Erishnu  was  exhausted  with  fatigue,  .he  desired  him  to 
use  the  palankeen,  but  the  bearers  objected  to  carry  one 
who  had  lost  caste.  Mr.  Marshman  repeated  the  order 
more  peremptorily ;  it  was  at  length  reluctantly  obeyed, 
and  Mr.  Marshman  walked  by  the  side  of  the  palankeen, 
to  the  surprise  of  the  natives.  "  I  felt  a  thousand  times 
greater  pleasure,"  he  writes  in  his  journal,  "  while  trudg- 
ing along  in  the  sun,  than  I  should  have  done  in  riding, 
from  the  thought  that  these  little  circumstances  did  more 
than  some  of  greater  value  towards  convincing  our  friends 
of  our  entire  union  in  heart  with  them,  while  they 
convinced  the  bearers,  too,  that  there  was  more  in  the 
Christian,  religion  than  they  had  imagined."  The  day 
after  this  occurrence  he  reached  the  civil  station  of  the 
district,  and  began  to  preach  in  the  market-place,  but  the 
crowd  soon  became  so  dense  that  he  was  obliged  to  mount 
the  roof  of  the  palankeen.  Holding  out  the  New  Testa- 
ment in  his  hand,  he  preached  to  the  multitude  at  the 
top  of  his  voice.  "Imagine  to  yourself,"  he  writes, 
"  more  than  a  thousand  people  of  different  sentiments, 
hearing  imperfectly  something  new;  some  reading  the 
papers,  others  clamouring  for  them,  others  as  loudly 
inquiring,  '  what  ? '  4  why  ?  *  *  wherefore  ?  '  and  you 
will  have  some  idea  of  the  scene."  Some  of  the  influ- 
ential brahmins  of  the  town  hastened  to  the  judge,  Mr. 
Middleton,  and  demanded  his  interference.  He  sent  for 
Mr.  Marshman  to  obtain  more  accurate  information  of 
the  affair,  and  to  satisfy  the  complainants.    Mr.  Marsh- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1804.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SBRAMPOBE  MISSION.  189 

man  found  him  surrounded  by  the  enraged  brahmins 
and  the  Amlas,  or  ministerial  officers  of  the  court,  who 
have  always  been  among  the  most  violent  opponents  of 
Christianity.  Mr.  Middleton  addressed  Mr.  Marshman 
in  a  tone  of  severity,  and  informed  him  that  such  ad- 
dresses to  the  heathen  could  not  be  permitted.  Mr. 
Marshman  explained  the  nature  of  his  errand  to  the 
district  in  connection  with  the  Mission  which  had  been 
established  at  Serampore,  and  offered  to  withdraw  from 
the  town  if  he  had  done  anything  to  contravene  the 
Company's  regulations.  After  this  explanation  the  judge 
softened  his  tone,  and  asked  Mr.  Marshman  to  dine  with 
him  in  the  evening,  and  endeavoured  to  pacify  the  angry 
brahmins,  though  with  little  success.  Mr.  Marshman 
then  addressed  one  of  the  most  forward  among  them  in 
the  mildest  language  ;  but  he  replied  that  it  was  a  sin  to 
listen  to  him,  or  even  to  look  at  him.  The  brahmin  then 
left  the  court  abruptly  and  returned  to  the  mob,  stating 
that  the  missionary  was  evidently  a  madman,  and  advising 
them  to  throw  his  palankeen  into  the  river,  and  to  chas- 
tise his  native  companions.  Emboldened  by  the  advice  of 
so  influential  a  man,  the  mob  chased  Koobeer,  one  of  the 
itinerants,  fell  on  Sheetaram,  and  pursued  Krishnu  with 
mud  and  cow-dung.  Mr.  Marshman  came  out  and  endea- 
voured to  calm  the  tumult,  but  was  obliged  to  retreat 
hastily  to  the  court,  where  he  collected  the  scattered 
itinerants,  and  placed  them  under  the  protection  of  the 
constituted  authorities.  In  the  evening,  Mr.  Middleton 
and  Mr.  Marshman  sat  down  to  dinner,  and  discussed  the 
labours  and  prospects  of  the  Mission,  to  which  the  judge 
drank  success,  and  they  parted  on  friendly  terms.  The 
crowd  had  dispersed  as  the  night  set  in,  and  Mr.  Marsh- 
man proceeded  at  the  dawn  of  the  next  morning  to  several 
other  villages,  preaching  and  distributing  tracts,  and 
reached  Serampore  on  the  last  day  of  the  year. 

The  year  1804  commenced  on  a  Sabbath,  and  the  mis- 
sionaries held  a  special  service  to  commemorate  their 


Digitized  by 


Google 


190  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  IV. 

union  as  a  family.     It  was  also  resolved  to  hold  a  service 
on  the  anniversary  of  the  formation  of  the  church,  in 
May,  and  the  establishment  of  the  Society  in  October; 
and  these  three  periodical  services  were  continued  till  the 
family  circle  was  broken  up  by  death.     In  the  course  of 
the  week,  Mr.  Carey  received  the  cheering  intelligence  that 
The  college       the  Court  of  Directors  had  withdrawn  their 
cooUnued-        orders  for  the  suppression  of  the  College  of 
Fort  William.     The  postponement  of  the  abolition  till 
eighteen  months  after  the  receipt  of  the  order,  by  Lord 
Wellesley,    was   considered  by  the    Court  of  Directors 
as  a  new  instance  of  insubordination;   but  his   friend, 
Mr.  Pitt,  was  again  at  the  head  of  the   ministry,   and 
the  antagonism  of  the  Court  was  effectually  overruled. 
The  College  was  to  continue  until  further  orders ;  but  the 
young  men  attached  to  the  Madras  and  Bombay  Presi- 
dencies were  not  to  resort  to  it.     Lord  Wellesley  had 
declared  his  determination  to  relinquish  the  government 
and  return  to  England,  if  the  decision  of  the  Court  had 
been  adverse  to  the  institution ;  and  he  was  thus  detained 
in  the  country  to  achieve  fresh  triumphs.     The  continu- 
ance of  the  College,  as  might  have  been  expected,  filled 
the  missionaries  at  Serampore  with  gratitude,  and  enabled 
them  to  pursue  their  work  with   renewed   confidence. 
On  the  9th  of  January,  Mr.  Felix  Carey,  Mr.  Chamberlain, 
and  several  native  itinerants,  were  sent  on  a  missionary 
tour  to  the  great  annual  mela,  or  religious  festival,  at 
Gunga  Saugor.     They  preached,  and  circulated  tracts  and 
Scriptures  during  the  trip,  and  spent  several .  days   in 
addressing  the  pilgrims,  computed  at  100,000.     The  mis- 
sionaries were  delighted  to  witness  the  happy  result  of  the 
measures   which  Government   had    adopted  to  prevent 
human  sacrifices*    For  the  first  time  since  the  establish- 
ment of  the  pilgrimage,  which  had  existed  for  many  cen- 
turies, not  a  single  victim  was  sacrificed.     A  non-commis- 
sioned officer  and  fifty  Hindoo  sepoys  were  stationed  along 
the  banks  of  the  river  to  prevent  the  perpetration  of  these 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1804.]  HISTOBY  07  THE  SBRAMPOBB  MISSION.  191 

inhuman  rites.  In  a  few  years  it  became  unnecessary  to 
send  any  military  force.  When  it  was  known  through- 
out the  country  that  the  practice  was  opposed  to  the 
wishes  of  the  sovereign,  and  that  it  had  been  prohibited 
by  law,  it  ceased  as  a  matter  of  course,  without  creating 
any  feeling  of  irritation. 

In  the  early  portion  of  the  year  1804,  the  European  and 
Mahomedan  community  in  Calcutta  was  thrown  into  a 
state  of  considerable  excitement  by  a  theme  Exdtenientcre. 
which  Dr.  Gilchrist,  the  professor  of  Hindoo-  SSftSS^St 
stanee,  proposed  to  his  class  for  discussion  at  p,ltaUon,• 
the  public  disputation  in  the  College  of  Fort  William. 
Lord  Wellesley  had  not  thought  fit  to  impose  any  rule  re* 
garding  the  topics  introduced  at  these  annual  exhibitions, 
and  they  sometimes  referred  to  social  improvements  which 
were  opposed  to  native  prejudices.  In  1803,  one  of  the 
subjects  discussed  in  the  presence  of  the  Governor-General, 
and  the  most  distinguished  members  of  native  society, 
related  to  the  distinctions  of  caste,  which  were  openly 
affirmed  to  retard  social  progress.  Dr.  Gilchrist  had  also 
on  one  occasion  selected  as  a  thesis  the  suicide  of  Hindoo 
.widows,  which  was  denounced  in  that  assembly  as  "re- 
pugnant to  the  natural  feelings  of  mankind,  and  incon- 
sistent with  moral  duty."  He  was  on  terms  of  great  ' 
intimacy  with  his  College  colleague,  Mr.  Carey,  and  had 
watched  his  labours  in  the  translation  of  the  Scriptures 
with  much  interest.  He  now  proposed  as  a  thesis  that 
"  the  natives  of  India  would  embrace  the  Gospel  as  soon 
as  they  were  able  to  compare  the  Christian  precepts  with 
those  of  their  own  books."  The  theme  gave  umbrage  to 
the  moonshees  employed  in  the  College,  and  through  their 
agency  created  a  great  commotion  in  the  Mahomedan 
community.  The  old  Indians,  who  felt  a  morbid  tender- 
ness for  all  u  native  prejudices,"  and  a  strong  aversion  to 
the  translation  of  the  Scriptures  and  every  missionary 
effort,  professed  to  take  alarm,  and  increased  the  excite- 
ment.  A  report  was  industriously  circulated  that,  as  soon 


Digitized  by 


Google 


192  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.       [Chap.  IV. 

as  the  proceedings  of  the  day  were  completed,  the  Musul- 
mans  were  to  be  brought  by  force  to  Government  House 
and  made  Christians.  A  strong  memorial  .was  drawn  up 
for  the  Mahomedans  by  their  European  abettors,  and 
numerously  signed,  remonstrating  against  this  alleged 
infringement  of  the  toleration  conceded  by  the  British 
Government.  The  contest  agitated  all  ranks  of  society. 
Mr.  Buchanan,  writing  to  a  friend,  says,  "  A  battle  is  now 
fighting  with  Musulman  and  Hindoo  prejudices  against 
the  translation  of  the  Scriptures.  Their  clamour  has 
assailed  Government.  Lord  Wellesley  and  Mr.  Barlow  are 
neuter ;  but  the  old  civil  servants  fan  the  flame."  When 
the  memorial  was  presented  to  the  Governor-General,  he 
coolly  replied,  that  he  saw  nothing  of  an  objectionable  ten- 
dency in  the  proposed  thesis,  but  with  a  view  to  allay  all 
apprehensions  on  the  part  of  the  natives,  he  directed 
that  the  subject  of  the  disputation  should  be  changed. 
Dr.  Gilchrist  was  so  seriously  offended  by  the  inter- 
ference of  Government,  that  he  indignantly  threw  up  his 
appointment,  and  returned  to  England.  In  the  month 
of  January,  Mr.  Carey  and  his  colleagues  ordained  Mr. 
Fernandez  to  the  work  of  the  ministry,  with  the  view  of 
establishing  a  subordinate  station  and  church  at  Dinage- 
pore.  He  was  eminently  qualified  for  this  work  by  his 
piety  and  zeal,  and  the  singular  amiability  of  his  disposi- 
tion, and  not  less  by  his  thorough  command  of  the  ver- 
nacular tongue.  He  never  received  any  support  from 
missionary  funds,  but  was  always  a  liberal  contributor  to 
them,  and  he  continued  to  occupy  the  station  and  to  labour 
with  great  assiduity  and  success  among  the  heathen  to  the 
period  of  his  death  in  1833.  Soon  after  the  ordination  of 
Mr.  Fernandez,  two  of  the  most  eminent  and  zealous  con- 
verts, Krishnu  and  old  Petumber,  were  set  apart  to  the 
ministry  by  the  laying  on  of  hands.  "  Now,"  observes 
Mr.  Ward,  with  exultation,  "we  may  reckon  on  two 
heathens  being  ministers  of  the  Gospel." 

It  was  at  the  commencement  of  this  year,  and  three 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1804.]  HISTORY  OF  THE   SERAMPORE  MISSION.  193 

months  before  the  establishment  of  the  Bible  Society,  that 
the  Serampore  missionaries  laid  before  the  Society  in 
England  the  plan  which  they  had  been  gradu- 
ally maturing  for  the  translation  of  the  Scrip-  tta5*s«^ 
tures,  or  portions  of  them,  into  the  languages  of 
the  East.  At  the  present  day,  when  the  greatest  facilities 
exist  for  this  work  by  the  increase  of  labourers  admir- 
ably qualified  for  it,  and  by  the  encouragement  of  the 
Christian  public,  it  is  interesting  to  look  back  on  the 
original  labours  of  the  Serampore  missionaries  in  this 
department,  conducted  under  every  disadvantage,  and  with 
no  support  but  that  which  was  derived  from  the  energy  of 
their  own  spirit.  It  appears  like  the  romance  of  enthu- 
siasm, that  three  men  in  their  position  should  originate, 
and,  to  so  great  an  extent,  carry  out  the  idea  of  giving  the 
sacred  Scriptures  to  the  natives  of  India  in  their  own 
languages,  at  a  time  when  the  Christian  world  was  utterly 
indifferent  to  the  work.  In  acquainting  the  Society  with 
this  plan  of  translations,  which  eventually  drew  forth  the 
applause  of  their  fellow-Christians  on  both  sides  the  At- 
lantic, there  was  no  ambitious  attempt  to  dazzle  their 
minds  by  the  grandeur  of  the  undertaking ;  the  proposal 
was  the  result  of  a  strong  conviction  of  duty,  and  it  was 
introduced  to  notice  in  a  spirit  of  unfeigned  simplicity. 
They  stated  that  there  were  at  least  seven  languages 
spoken  in  India,  the  Bengalee,  the  Hindoostanee,  the 
Ooriya,  the  Mahratta,  the  Telinga,  the  Kurnata,  and  the 
Tamul ; — at  that  period  the  philological  statistics  of  our 
Indian  empire  were  but  imperfectly  known.  The  mission- 
aries had  frequently  discussed  among  themselves  the 
possibility  of  effecting  a  translation  of  the  Bible,  or  at 
least  some  portion  of  it,  into  some,  if  not  all,  these  lan- 
guages ;  and  they  were  now  led  to  consider  it  practicable 
from  the  following  considerations.  They  had  acquired  the 
mental  habits  necessary  for  such  a  work  in  the  prosecution 
of  their  translations  at  Serampore ;  they  were  in  a  position, 
by  Mr.  Carey's  connection  with  the  College,  to  obtain  the 
vol.  i.  o 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


194  HISTORY  OF  THE   SERAMPORB   MISSION.      [Chap.  IV. 

assistance  of  learned  men  from  all  these  countries ;  they 
had  collected  the  best  library  of  critical  works  to  be  found 
in  India;  they  had  a  large  printing  establishment  and 
an  efficient  letter-foundry  capable  of  any  expansion ;  and 
their  situation  gave  them  facilities  for  distributing  the 
translations,  if  they  should  live  to  see  the  work,  or  any 
portion  of  it,  completed.  Their  own  pecuniary  resources, 
they  said,  were  unequal  to  the  undertaking,  and  they 
required  some  assistance  from  home.  They  had  already 
entered  upon  the  task  before  they  ventured  to  introduce 
the  plan  to  their  brethren  in  England.  At  the  beginning 
of  1803  they  began  a  translation  of  the  New  Testament  in 
Hindee.  In  October,  of  that  year,  the  province  of  Orissa 
was  conquered  and  annexed  to  the  British  dominions,  and 
they  immediately  engaged  the  services  of  an  Ooriya 
pundit,  and  commenced  a  translation  in  that  language. 
Lord  Wellesley  had  determined  to  introduce  the  study  of 
Mahratta  into  the  College,  for  the  benefit  of  the  students 
from  the  Bombay  Presidency ;  that  language  was  therefore 
added  to  their  list  of  translations,  and  Mr.  Carey  began 
the  compilation  of  a  Mahratta  Grammar.  Hitherto,  they 
had  proceeded  in  their  enlarged  plan  of  translations  at 
their  own  expense — the  supplies  they  received  from 
England  for  translations  being  intended  for  the  Bengalee 
version  alone, — but  they  now  found  it  impossible  to  prose- 
cute the* work  any  farther  without  extraneous  aid.  They 
therefore  solicited  the  support  of  the  Society  to  the  extent 
of  1000Z.  a-year.  A  few  months  before  this  joint  letter  was 
despatched  to  England,  Mr.  Carey  had  made  some  allusion 
to  the  plan  in  a. private  communication,  and  Mr.  Fuller's 
mind  was  at  once  kindled  by  the  idea,  and  at  his  instance 
the  Committee  passed  the  following  resolution  on  the  23rd 
of  May,  1804 :  —  "  If  our  brethren  should  be  able  fully  or 
in  part  to  execute  the  plan  which  they  have  conceived  of 
translating  the  Scriptures  into  the  Eastern  languages,  we 
will  most  cordially  co-operate  with  them,  and  we  are  per- 
suaded the  Christian  public  will  not  suffer  the  work  to 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1804.]  HISTORY   OF  THE   SBRAMPORE  MI8SI0N.  195 

stop  for  want  of  pecuniary  support."  Such  was  the  origin 
of  the  plan  of  translations  at  Serampore.  About  this  time 
Col.  Colebrooke  completed  a  translation  of  the  Gospels  in 
Persian,  and  Mr.  Hunter  in  Hindoostanee ;  and  Mr.  Carey, 
in  reference  to  these  labours,  remarks,  "  I  am  very  glad 
that  Col.  Colebrooke  has  done  it.  We  will  gladly  do  what 
others  do  not,  and  speed  those  who  do  anything." 

Simultaneously  with  this  plan  of  translations,  Mr.  Carey 
and  his  two  associates  formed  the  design  of  establishing 
subordinate  missionary  stations  in  Bengal. 
The  plan  which  they  submitted  to  the  Society  J££u*>n*rj 
exhibits  the  large  and  comprehensive  views 
they  had  formed,  and  the  extreme  caution  with  which  they 
husbanded  their  limited  resources.  It  was  drawn  up  by 
Mr.  Marshman  and  sent  to  Mr.  Fuller  in  April,  1804,  and 
the  following  extract  from  the  letter  will  serve  to  illustrate 
his  peculiar  cast  of  mind,  as  well  as  the  general  style  of  his 
composition.  He  says,  "  We  have  been  projecting  a  scheme 
for  the  enlargement  of  the  Mission,  of  which  I  will  briefly 
give  you  the  outlines.  It  is  that  of  placing  as  many 
brethren  as  the  Lord  gives  us  in  different  stations  round 
the  country,  with  a  small  capital,  about  two  or  three 
hundred  pounds,  to  trade  in  cloth,  indigo,  or  whatever 
each  station  best  affords,  to  receive  money  and  send  the 
goods  with  monthly  accounts  to  us,  to  keep  one  common 
stock  and  one  table  still,  to  have  exactly  the  same 
allowance,  and  to  meet  once  a  year  at  Serampore.  Our 
reasons  are  these: — It  will,  by  and  by,  be  almost  im- 
possible, as  well  as  improper,  for  every  Hindoo  who 
receives  the  Gospel  to  reside  at  Serampore,  or  even  to 
come  there ;  and  though  much  may  be  hoped  for  from 
native  brethren,  yet  a  European  brother  to  oversee  and 
gently  conduct  their  affairs,  infuse  life  into  their  efforts, 
and  itinerate  himself,  may  be  necessary  for  some  time  to 
come.  But  to  maintain  a  residence  anywhere  he  must 
have  an  employment  —  not  to  say  that  the  probable 
profits  of  almost  half  his  time,  employed  in  this  small 

o  2 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


196  HISTOBY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  TX 

capital,  may  not  be  unnecessary  towards  supporting  him- 
self, his  family,  and  his  station.  .  .  .  Besides  an  employ- 
ment furnishes  work,  and,  of  course,  protection  to  the 
rejected  Hindoo  converts.  The  advantages  we  would  hope 
from  this  plan  are,  the  more  effectual  as  well  as  wider  dis- 
semination of  the  Gospel'  throughout  the  country — the 
training  up  of  a  number  of  native  brethren  as  itinerant 
missionaries;  .  .  .  finally,  the  consolidating  into  one 
fund  the  profits  of  labour,  experience,  vivacity,  steadiness, 
courage,  and  wisdom,  with  a  proper  distribution  of  them 
to  their  respective  places  —  that  is,  steadiness  and  wisdom 
to  the  council,  and  activity  and  courage  to  the  busy 
scenes.  The  printing,  the  translating,  the  school,  and 
the  management  of  business  will  ever  employ  a  sufficient 
number  of  brethren  at  Serampore  to  act  as  a  committee 
during  the  year,  and  an  annual  meeting  would  give 
union,  direction,  and  vigour  to  all  affairs ;  .  .  .  while  a 
union  of  soul,  and  a  perpetual  communication  of  intel- 
ligence, hopes,  fears,  conflicts,  oppositions,  mercies,  and 
prospects,  would,  like  the  circulation  of  the  blood,  spread 
life  and  impulse  through  every  part  of  the  body.  Perhaps 
my  dear  brother  may  be  ready  to  think  that  I  have  for- 
gotten myself,  and  am  talking  in  a  Utopian  strain.  There 
are  dangers,  difficulties,  and  obstacles,  not  a  few,  in  the 
way.  True ;  but  as  that  plan  is  not  likely  to  succeed  where 
danger  is  wholly  overlooked,  so  that  will  never  be  entered 
on  when  difficulties  are  considered  insurmountable."  It 
should  be  borne  in  mind  that  the  idea  of  adopting  secular 
avocations  at  these  out  stations,  arose  not  only  from  a 
desire  to  lighten  the  charge  of  them  on  Mission  funds,  but 
also  to  avoid  the  risk  of  being  reported  to  Government 
as  missionaries.  In  furtherance  of  this  plan,  they  resolved 
to  form  a  station  at  Cutwa,  and  Mr.  Chamberlain  pro- 
ceeded to  occupy  it  in  the  course  of  the  year. 

The  anxiety  of  Lord  Wellesley  to  encourage  every  effort 
to  unfold  the  ancient  literature  of  the  country,  led  the 
missionaries  to  publish  about  this  time  Mr.  Colebrooke's 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1804.]  HISTORY  OF  THE   SERAMPORB  MISSION.  197 

English  translation  of  the  Umur  Kosha,   the  most  po- 
pular dictionary  of  the  Sanscrit  language.     Government 
subscribed  for  100  copies,  at  41.  16s.  the  copy. 
Mr.  Carey  also  prosecuted  with  great    assi-  * u?H^n 
duity  the  laborious  task  of  compiling  a  Grammar 
of  that  language,  which  he  originally  hoped  to  comprise 
within  400  pages,  but  which  eventually  swelled  to  the 
bulk  of  1000  quarto  pages.     To  this  work,  also,  Govern- 
ment afforded  him  a  liberal  subscription  of  6401.  for  100 
copies,  which  was  generously  paid  in  advance.     He  was 
also  requested  by  the  Asiatic  Society  in  Calcutta,  founded 
in  1784  by  that  illustrious  scholar,  Sir  William  Jones,    * 
to  undertake  a  translation  of  the  Vedas  into  English.     He 
had  always  been  of  opinion  that  an  acquaintance  with 
these  ancient  and  venerated  works  was  necessary  to  a  full 
and  accurate  comprehension  of  the  Hindoo  system  of 
religion  and  philosophy.   But  the  day  for  this  undertaking 
had  not  arrived.     Mr.  Carey,  after  commencing  the  trans- 
lation, found  it  interfere  materially  with  the  translations 
of  the  Bible,  to  which  he  had  consecrated  his  life,  and  the  ** 
undertaking  was  therefore  relinquished.     At  the  close  of 
the  year,  the  first  Sanscrit  work  ever  printed  in  the  ori- 
ginal was  issued  from  the  Mission  press  at  Serampore 

the  Heetopadesh ;  of  which  two  translations  in  English 
had  previously  appeared. 

At  the  annual  disputations  of  the  College  on  the  4th  of 
September,  1804,  Mr.  Carey  was  moderator  both  in  the 
Bengalee  and  Sanscrit  languages.    Lord  Wel- 
lesley  had  always  appreciated  the  importance  of  ^dr«.r2 lorn 
cultivating  the  Sanscrit,  "the  source  and  root,"  S^SsLb 
as  he  stated,  "  of  the  principal  vernacular  dia- 
lects throughout  India."      He  was  anxious  to  encourage 
the  study  of  it  in  his  favourite  institution.     Mr.  Gowan, 
a  student  in  the  College,  bad  applied  to  this  classical  lan- 
guage under  Mr.  Carey's  tuition,  with  great  success,  and 
was  required  on  this  occasion  to  pronounce  a  declamation 
in  it,  and  Mr.  Carey  was  requested  at  the  same  time  to 

o  3 


Digitized  by 


Google 


198  HISTORY  OF  THE   SERAMPOBB  MISSION.      [Chap.  IV. 

deliver  an  address  to  the  Governor-General  in  that  lan- 
guage. These  annual  exhibitions  were  got  up  in  that 
spirit  of  magnificence  which  characterised  all  Lord  Wel- 
lesley's  proceedings.  They  were  held  in  the  splendid 
edifice  which  he  had  erected  in  Calcutta  for  the  residence 
of  the  viceroy  of  India,  at  a  cost  not  exceeding  140,000£, 
which,  however,  startled  and  annoyed  his  "honourable 
masters  "  in  Leadenhall  Street.  The*  Governor-General 
took  his  seat  on  the  dais  at  the  upper  end  of  the  noble 
throne-room,  and  the  principal  officers  of  government,  the 
judges  of  the  supreme  court,  and  the  most  distinguished 
members  of  European  society,  were  seated  around  him.  The 
assembly  was  graced  by  the  beauty  and  fashion  of  Calcutta. 
The  most  eminent  men  in  the  native  community;  the 
learned  brahmins,  from  all  parts  of  the  empire,  in  their 
simple  attire;  the  opulent  rajahs  and  baboos,  and  the 
representatives  of  the  native  princes  of  India,  in  their 
"  plumed  and  jewelled  turbans,"  were  assembled  to  do 
honour  to  the  majesty  of  British  power.  In  this  brilliant 
assemblage  three  of  the  most  proficient  students  of  the 
year  in  each  language  appeared  as  disputants,  and  the 
professor  stood  at  their  side  as  moderator.  The  scene  was 
the  most  splendid  which  the  metropolis  presented  through- 
out the  year,  and  the  day  was  one  of  high  and  honourable 
excitement  to  the  members  of  the  civil  service.  On  the 
present  occasion,  Mr.  Carey  drew  up  a  simple  and  appro- 
priate address  to  Lord  Wellesley,  complimenting  him  on 
the  success  of  his  administration,  and  the  benefits  derived 
from  the  institution  he  had  founded.  He  sent  it  to  Mr. 
Buchanan,  who  elaborated  and  gilded  it,  and  then  sub- 
mitted it  for  Lord  Wellesley's  approval.  In  the  official 
report  of  the  address,  Mr.  Carey  is  stated  to  have  said, — 
"  I  now,  an  old  man,  have  lived  for  a  long  series  of  years 
among  the  Hindoos.  I  have  been  in  the  habit  of  preach- 
ing to  multitudes  daily,  of  discoursing  with  the  brahmins 
upon  every  subject,  and  superintending  schools  for  the  in- 
struction of  Hindoo  youth.     Their  language  is  nearly  as 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1804.}  HISTORY  OF  THE   SERAMPORE  MISSION.  199 

familiar  to  me  as  my  own.  This  close  intercourse  with 
the  natives  for  so  long  a  period,  and  in  different  parts  of 
our  empire,  has  afforded  me  opportunities  of  information 
not  inferior  to  those  which  have  hitherto  been  presented 
to  any  other  person.  I  may  say,  indeed,  that  their  manners, 
customs,  habits,  and  sentiments,  are  as  obvious  to  me  as 
if  I  was  myself  a  native.  And,  knowing  them  as  I  do, 
and  hearing  as  I  do  their  daily  observations  on  our  go- 
vernment, character,  and  principles,  I  am  warranted  to  say 
(and  I  deem  it  my  duty  to  embrace  the  public  opportunity 
now  offered  me  of  saying)  that  the  institution  of  this 
College  was  wanting  to  complete  the  happiness  of  the 
natives  under  our  dominion;  for  this  institution  will 
break  down  that  barrier  (our  ignorance  of  their  language) 
which  has  ever  opposed  the  influence  of  our  laws  and 
principles,  and  has  despoiled  our  administration  of  its 
energy  and  effect." 

The  substance  of  this  address  was  delivered  in  the 
Sanscrit  language.  Yet  it  is  a  fact  that  at  this  time  Mr. 
Carey  was  only  forty-three  years  of  age,  although  Addreii  to  Loid 
from  his  bald  head,  and  a  sprinkling  of  grey  Welle,u*- 
hairs  on  either  side,  he  presented  the  appearance  of  more 
advanced  age.  In  writing  to  Mr.  Fuller  on  the  subject  of 
this  address,  he  remarked,  "  Mr.  Buchanan,  to  whom  I 
gave  the  speech,  added  much  to  it  (the  whole  of  the  flat- 
tery is  his),  and  sent  it  to  Lord  Wellesley  for  his  inspec- 
tion, without  saying  anything  to  me  till  it  was  returned 
with  a  letter  of  the  highest  approbation  from  his  lordship, 
written  with  his  own  hand.  Mr.  Buchanan's  object  was 
to  bring  our  Mission  forward  on  this  occasion,  and  he  was 
very  anxious  about  the  event  till  his  lordship's  letter 
arrived."  It  was  a  hazardous  experiment  at  that  period 
of  timidity  to  propose  to  the  Governor-General  that  a  mis- 
sionary should  stand  up  in  that  august  assembly,  before 
all  the  officers  of  state  and  the  most  eminent  natives, 
and  openly  avow  that  he  had  been  for  many  years  em- 
ployed in  preaching  Christianity.     Both  Mr.  Brown  and 

o  4 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


200  HI8TOBY  OF  THE   SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  IV. 

Mr.  Buchanan  fully  expected  that  the  draft  of  the  address 
would  be  returned  with  a  request  that  all  reference  to  Mr. 
Carey's  missionary  vocation  should  be  omitted,  and  they 
were  agreeably  surprised  when  it  was  sent  back  unaltered 
With  the  following  note : — "  I  am  much  pleased  with  Mr. 
Carey's  truly  original  and  excellent  speech.  I  would  not 
wish  to  have  a  word  altered.  I  esteem  such  a  testimony 
from  such  a  man  a  greater  honour  than  the  applauses  of 
Courts  and  Parliaments. — Wellesley."  It  has  been  stated, 
in  a  previous  chapter,  that  on  Lord  Wellesley's  appoint- 
ment to  the  government  of  India  in  1798,  Mr.  Fuller 
advised  Mr.  Carey  to  wait  on  him,  and  frankly  avow  his 
mission.  Mr.  Carey  replied  that  he  was  prohibited  from 
settling  in  India  by  Act  of  Parliament,  and  that  nothing 
short  of  the  same  authority  could  reverse  the  law ;  but 
though  he  could  not  venture  to  return  himself  as  a  mis- 
sionary in  the  annual  reports,  he  would  not  hesitate  to 
declare  himself  a  missionary  if  he  were  in  the  presence  of 
Lord  Wellesley.  He  was  now  thrown  into  that  position, 
and  he  fulfilled  his  promise  to  the  letter,  and  boldly 
avowed  before  the  Governor-General  that  his  life  had  been 
devoted  to  missionary  labours ;  and  the  assertion  had  even 
received  his  distinct  approval.  But  among  the  official 
dignitaries  who  surrounded  Lord  Wellesley's  seat  at  that 
College  disputation,  and  listened  to  this  open  avowal  of 
Mr.  Carey's  missionary  calling,  there  were  not  a  few  who 
regarded  it  with  feelings  of  deep  resentment,  and  only 
waited  for  an  opportunity  of  practically  exemplifying 
their  hostility  to  the  cause. 

The  effort  which  was  thus  made  by  Mr.  Buchanan  to 
bring  forward  the  Serampore  mission,  and  obtain  for  it 

the  indirect  sanction  of  a  liberal  Governor- 
Mr.  Buchanan'*     nii  1  •  ^  •       *  /» 

support  of  mi*.    General  was  by  no  means  a  solitary  instance  of 

tion&ry  labours.  *  ' 

his  zeal  for  the  diffusion  of  knowledge,  secular 
and  divine.  With  much  that  was  ostentatious  and  diplo- 
matic in  the  constitution  of  his  mind,  he  was  still  im- 
bued with  the  feeling  of  genuine  and  enlarged  Christian 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1804.]  HISTORY   OF  THE  SERAMPOBE   MISSION.  201 

philanthropy,  and  he  was  anxious  to  employ  the  influence 
of  his  position,  as  Vice-Provost  of  the  College,  in  promoting 
great  objects.  He  felt  that  one  of- the  greatest  obstacles 
to  the  progress  of  Indian  improvement  was  the  ignorance 
which  prevailed  in  England  regarding  its  condition  and 
its  wants,  and  the  indifference  with  which  any  proposal  on 
the  subject  of  its  intellectual  and  moral  progress  was 
treated.  He  was  desirous  of  rousing  the  public  mind  in 
England  to  the  importance  of  the  subject,  and  to  effect 
this  object  he  made  an  offer  of  prizes  for  essays  on  Indian 
civilisation,  to  the  extent  of  650/.,  from  his  own  resources, 
which  were  never  abundant.  He  proposed  as  the  subject 
of  a  prize  essay  to  the  two  English  and  the  four  Scottish 
universities,  and  to  the  university  of  Dublin,  "  The  best 
means  of  extending  the  blessings  of  civilisation  and  true 
religion  among  the  sixty  million  inhabitants  of  Hindoostan 
subject  to  British  authority."  He  likewise  offered  prizes 
for  the  best  English  poem  on  "  The  Revival  of  Letters  in 
the  East ;"  for  the  best  Latin  ode  or  poem  on  "  Collegium 
Bengalense ;"  and  also  for  the  best  Greek  ode  on  "Let 
there  be  light."  The  prizes  for  the  odes  were  offered  to 
Eton,  Westminster,  Winchester,  and  the  Charter  House. 
The  essays  which  resulted  from  this  offer  were  delivered 
in  at  the  close  of  the  year,  and  though,  as  might  have 
been  expected,  not  of  much  practical  value,  served  to 
draw  public  attention  to  the  subject,  and  more  particularly 
to  bring  it  under  the  consideration  of  the  students  of  the 
universities,  who  were  then  preparing  to  take  a  share  in 
public  affairs.  The  most  important  production  elicited 
by  the  prizes  was  an  admirable  English  poem  on  "  The 
Restoration  of  Learning  in  the  East,"  by  Mr.  Charles  Grant, 
whose  sympathies  for  the  improvement  of  India  were 
derived  from  his  illustrious  father,  and  who  subsequently 
rose  to  be  President  of  the  Board  of  Control,  where  he  was 
enabled  to  promote  the  cause  of  Indian  improvement 
which  he  had  so  ably  advocated  in  his  youth. 

In  the  last  quarter  of  this  year,  the  missionaries,  in  their 


Digitized  by 


Google 


202  HISTORY  OF  THE  SBRAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  IV. 

letter  to  the  Society,  reviewed  the  circumstances  in  which 
they  stood.     They  state,  "  We  want  no  one  earthly  com- 
fort: in  this  respect  we  have  all  things,  and 
MiMio^atthe      abound.      We    are    still  a  happy,    healthful, 

end  of  foar  yean.  tLj/  * 

and  highly-favoured  family.  But  though  we 
would  feel  incessant  gratitude  for  these  gourds,  yet  we 
would  not  feel  content  unless  4  Nineveh  be  brought  to  re- 
pentance.' We  did  not  come  to  this  country  to  be  placed 
in  what  are  called  easy  circumstances  respecting  this 
world;  and  we  trust  that  nothing  but  the  salvation  of 
souls  will  satisfy  us.  True,  before  we  set  off  we  thought 
we  could  die  content  if  we  should  be  permitted  to  see  the 
half  of  what  we  have  already  seen ;  yet  now  we  seem 
almost  as  far  from  the  mark  of  our  missionary  high  calling 
as  ever.  ....  The  expenses  attending  the  purchase  and 
erection  of  large  premises  at  Serampore,  and  beginning 
business  at  Gutwa,  the  translating  and  printing  expenses, 
also,  of  these  large  heavy  works,  and  of  free  schools,  added 
to  the  maintenance  of  so  large  a  family, — all  this  God  has 
provided  for,  with  a  comparatively  small  proportion  of  help 
from  England.  Our  whole  expenditure  has  not  been  less 
than  13,000?.,  and  we  have  had  from  England  in  money, 
goods,  &c,  not  more  than  5740Z.  17s.  Id.  during  the  five 
years  we  have  been  at  Serampore ;  and  this  sum  is  not 
sunk,  but  invested  in  premises  belonging  to  the  Mission. 
...  No  private  fortune,  no  annual  contributions  which  you 
could  have  been  expected  to  raise,  could  have  borne  the 
weight  of  expense  which  God  has  brought  us  through." 

Towards  the  close  of  this  year,  great  commotion  was  ex- 
cited throughout  the  Civil  Service  in  Bengal,  by  an  event 

which  is  introduced  to  the  notice  of  the  reader 
^foSet^Mw6-  because  it  furnishes  an  index  of  the  moral 
?uc»tioS?d  *      characteristics  of  the  age,  and  indirectly  justifies 

the  establishment  of  the  College  of  Fort  William. 
The  members  of  the  service  became  anxious  to  establish  a 
fund  for  the  support  of  their  widows  and  orphans,  and  the 
plan  of  a  Civil  Fund  was  drawn  up  and  circulated  among 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1804.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  8BRAMPORE  MISSION.  203 

them.  The  old  gentlemen  of  the  service,  who  had  grown 
grey  in  Indian  associations,  were  desirous  to  extend  the 
benefit  of  it  to  their  dark  illegitimate  children.  But  the 
younger  civilians  connected  with  the  College,  in  number 
between  fifty  and  sixty,  whom  it  had  been  the  aim  of 
Lord  Wellesley  to  train  up  in  the  principles  of  virtue  and 
religion,  united  with  one  voice  in  deprecating  a  proposal 
which,  as  they  justly  observed,  involved  "  the  total  vio- 
lation of  one  of  the  great  ordinances  of  the  Divine  law, 
and  the  direct  overthrow  of  all  the  principles  and  dis- 
tinctions which  have  been  established  and  maintained  by 
the  authority  of  the  world."  They  were  encouraged  by 
the  friends  of  religion  and  morality  in  Calcutta,  and 
backed  by  the  Governor-General ;  and  it  was  remarked  as 
a  singular  feature  of  the  contest,  that  "  the  young  men 
appeared  to  be  on  the  side  where  it  might  be  expected  the 
old  men  would  be  found."  But  the  reason  was  clearly 
explained  in  one  of  the  numerous  papers  which  the  dis- 
cussion produced.  Mr.  Tucker,  then  Accountant-General, 
and  afterwards  a  distinguished  member  of  the  East  India 
Direction,  said,  "Some  of  us  assuredly  remain  in  this 
country  too  long  for  the  public  good,  or  our  own  happiness. 
We  delay  the  hour  of  departure  until  we  lose  our  English 
ideas,  and  our  English  affections ;  until,  in  fact,  we  forget 

the  distinction  between  a  concubine  and  a  wife 

I  contend  that  the  rising  generation  should  be  prevented, 
if  possible,  from  immuring  themselves  in  loathsome  zenanas, 
where  they  must  pass  a  miserable  existence,  tormented 
with  the  importunate  claims  of  a  wretched  family,  regard- 
less of  reputation,  lost  to  their  country,  their  family,  and 
their  friends."  An  ode  was  composed  by  some  of  the  old 
veterans  in  vice,  addressed  to  the  "  virtuous  youths,"  in 
which  they  were  desired  to  "  descend  from  their  stilts," 
and  do  like  other  people.  The  young  men,  on  their  side, 
got  up  caricatures,  one  of  which  represented  the  leader  of 
the  old  men  with  a  black. child  in  his  arms,  pleading  its 
cause  in  full  assembly,  and  a  black  woman  behind,  urging 


Digitized  by 


Google 


204  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORB  MISSION.      [Chap.  IV. 

him  forward.  The  controversy  was  carried  on  by  printed 
correspondence,  on  the  part  of  the  youths,  chiefly  by  Mr., 
afterwards  Lord  Metcalfe,  and  Mr.  John  Adam,  both 
of  whom  subsequently  rose  to  the  office  of  Governor- 
General  ad  interim.  Their  last  paper  concluded  with  these 
memorable  expressions : — "  The  Civil  Fund,  if  loaded  by 
the  proposed  extension  of  its  objects  to  illegitimate  chil- 
dren, will  tend  to  the  destruction  of  public  principles,  to 
the  overthrow  of  sacred  and  established  institutions,  to  the 
encouragement  of  prostitution  and  vice,  to  the  disgrace  of 
the  character  of  this  settlement,  and  to  the  injury  of  the 
interests  of  our  country."  After  the  discussion  had  been 
carried  on  for  some  time,  the  two  parties  formally  divided. 
The  Civil  Service  at  that  time  consisted  of  350  members, 
one  half  of  whom  voted  for  the  admission  of  the  bastards, 
the  other  half  against  it.  The  question  was  then  submitted 
to  the  arbitration  of  Lord  Wellesley,  who  did  not  hesitate 
for  a  moment  to  limit  the  benefit  of  the  fund  to  children 
born  in  wedlock,  leaving  upon  the  175  civilians  the  task  of 
providing,  from  their  own  funds,  for  the  offspring  of  the 
loathsome  zenanas.  Not  disheartened  by  this  decision, 
they  appealed  to  the  Court  of  Directors,  affirming  that 
their  masters  would  never  vote  with  the  College,  because 
they  would  see  hpw  "unfriendly  it  was  to  ancient  in- 
stitutions." But  the  Court  not  only  sanctioned  the  clause 
which  excluded  illegitimate  children,  but  endowed  the 
Fund  with  an  annual  subscription  of  25001. 

On  the  1st  of  January,  1805,  arrangements  were  made  by 
the  Serampore  missionaries  for  the  erection  of  a  chapel  in 
Bowiwch*-  Calcutta  for  the  benefit  of  the  poorer  classes  of 
^m?rcSTu?chM  the  Christian  community.  A  reference  to  the 
to  Clients  religious  edifices  in  the  metropolis  of  British 
power,  may  not  here  be  Altogether  without  interest.  At 
the  beginning  of  the  eighteenth  century,  soon  after  the 
establishment  of  the  factory  at  Calcutta,  one  of  the  first 
objects  of  solicitude  to  its  mercantile  community  was  the 
erection  of  a  place  for  Christian  worship.     A  church  was 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1805.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPOEE  MISSION.  205 

accordingly  erected  from  the  munificent  donations  of  the 
merchants;  and  the  Court  of  Directors  contributed  1000Z., 
a  large  sum  for  a  period  when  the  aggregate  of  their 
traffic  with  Calcutta  did  not  exceed  2000  tons  a  year.  The 
church  was  consecrated  in  1709,  by  the  chaplain,  under  a 
commission  from  the  Bishop  of  London.  It  is  described 
as  a  splendid  edifice,  and  the  steeple  was  the  great  orna* 
ment  of  the  settlement.  It  was  thrown  down  in  the 
earthquake  of  1737,  the  most  memorable  event  in  the  his- 
tory of  Calcutta,  before  the  sack  of  the  town  by  Surraja- 
dowlah ;  and  it  was  not  till  thirteen  years  after,  that  the 
Company  ordered  it  to  be  rebuilt  at  their  expense.  At  the 
same  time  they  enriched  it  with  a  large  Bible  and  Prayer- 
book.  Both  steeple  and  church  were  demolished  by  the  can- 
non of  Surraja-dowlah  in  1756.  In  the  inventory  of  the  pro- 
perty of  the  Company  drawn  up  in  the  previous  year,  the 
value  of  the  church  was  estimated  at  5000/.,  and  this  sum 
was  made  good  in  1757  by  the  Nabob  whom  Clive  placed 
on  the  throne  of  Moorshedabad.  But  the  return  of  pros- 
perity and  the  influx  of  wealth  brought  no  revival  of  Chris- 
tian feelings.  The  money  was  received  into  the  treasury, 
and  the  church  was  forgotten.  In  1764  the  Court  of 
Directors  desired  that  the  building  of  the  church  should 
be  postponed  till  the  accommodation  for  their  servants, 
the  barracks  for  the  soldiers,  and  every  other  building  of 
consequence  was  completed.  In  1 768,  they  say, "  As  we  take 
it  for  granted,  that  the  new  fort  is  by  this  time  perfectly 
in  a  state  of  defence,  we  recommend  it  to  you  to  begin 
the  church,  which  should  be  spacious,  and  simplicity 
should  be  preferred  to  rich  and  expensive  ornaments."  The 
subject  was  again  forgotten  for  eight  years ;  and  it  was  not 
till  1776  that  the  Directors  brought  it  forward  again,  and 
stated  in  their  despatch  that  they  were  willing  "  to  pro- 
mote so  useful  and  pious  a  work,  especially  as  it  may  be  in 
some  measure  derogatory  to  the  dignity  of  the  Company, 
that  our  servants  should  be  without  a  decent  place  of 
worship.     We  therefore  direct  that  an  estimate  of  the  ex- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


206  HISTORY   OF  THE   SEBAMPORB  MISSION.      [Chap.  IV. 

pense  attending  such  a  building,  together  with  the  plan  of 
it,  be  sent  us."  Nothing  serves  more  strongly  to  mark  the 
character  of  that  period  than  the  fact,  that  for  twenty-six 
years  after  the  battle  of  Plassey,  the  British  community  in 
Calcutta,  while  amassing  the  most  ambitious  fortunes, 
made  no  effort  to  build  up  the  house  of  God,  which  had  been 
razed  by  the  Mahomedans ;  but  the  Governor  and  Gover- 
nor-General, the  members  of  council,  the  royal  judges,  the 
barristers,  and  the  merchants  of  renown,  were  content, 
when  they  did  meet  for  divine  worship,  to  congregate  in  a 
room  adjoining  the  Black  Hole. 

The  orders  of  the  Court  of  1776,  however,  lay  dormant 
for  more  than  six  years.  The  local  government  was  in  no 
st.john't  hurry  for  the  church,  and  it  was  only  in  1783 
Chmchm  that  Warren  Hastings,  the  Governor-General, 

and  his  council,  attended  the  first  meeting  of  the  new  church 
committee.  Raja  Nuku-kissen,  who  began  life  as  a  clerk 
in  Clive's  office,  and  rose  with  the  tide  of  our  fortunes  to 
great  wealth  and  influence  in  Calcutta,  gave  the  ground, 
which  was  even  then  valued  at  30001.  The  sum  of  24002. 
was  raised  by  a  lottery ;  and  the  Court  of  Directors,  with 
the  sum  of  5000Z.  unappropriated  in  their  treasury,  which 
had  been  paid  for  the  old  church  more  than  a  quarter  of  a 
century  before,  contributed  1200/.  out  of  a  revenue  of  four 
millions,  with  the  injunction  that  this  sum  should  be  con- 
sidered as  "a  provision  for  the  communion  plate,  an 
organ,  a  clock,  bells,  and  velvet  for  the  pulpit,  the  desk, 
and  the  communion  table.'1  Zoffany,  the  eminent  painter, 
who  had  then  been  three  years  in  Calcutta,  presented  the 
church  with  one  of  the  noblest  productions  of  his  pencil, 
the  Last  Supper,,  which  still  adorns  the  chancel.  The 
picture  was  rendered  the  more  interesting  from  the  fact, 
that  the  head  of  each  apostle  was  the  portrait  of  some  one 
then  living  in  the  town ;  Tulloh,  the  auctioneer,  sitting  for 
Judas,  while  he  was  allowed  to  believe  that  he  represented 
the  apostle  John.  Mr.  Shore,  afterwards  Lord  Teign- 
mouth,  has  left  the  following  record  of  his  observations  at 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1806.]  HISTORY  OP  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  207 

the  time.  "Our  church  has  lately  been  built.  It  was 
begun  at  first  by  subscription  —  a  Pagan  gave  the  ground 
—  all  parties  subscribed  —  lotteries,  confiscations,  dona- 
tions received  contrary  to  law  have  been  employed  in 
completing  it.  The  Company  have  contributed  but  little, 
no  great  proof  that  they  consider  the  morals  of  their  sub- 
jects connected  with  their  religion."  The  church,  which 
was  called  St.  John's,  was  finished  in  1786,  and  imme- 
diately became  the  state  church,  with  official  chairs  for 
the  Governor-General  and  his  suite,  and  velveted  seats  for 
the  judges  and  the  members  of  council. 

The  Mission  Church,  built  by  Mr.  Kiernander  for  his 
Portuguese  and  East  India  congregations,  had,  as  we  have 
stated,  passed  into  the  hands  of  Mr.  Grant  and  TheMUdcn 
bis  friends  in  the  same  year  in  which  St.  John's  Church* 
was  opened.  It  was  subsequently  enlarged  to  treble  its 
original  size,  and  handsomely  fitted  up ;  and  under  Mr. 
Brown's  ministry  began  to  be  attended  "  by  members  of 
the  different  Boards,  and  several  others  of  the  first  rank 
in  society,"  and  was  no  longer  stigmatised  as  a  place  befit- 
ting only  "  stable  boys  and  paupers."  After  Kiernander's 
departure,  a  service  was  for  a  time  conducted,  once  a  day, 
for  the  Portuguese ;  but  it  was  quietly  discontinued,  and 
that  congregation  gradually  melted  away  before  the  influx 
of  the  gentry  of  the  highest  and  of  the  middling  classes. 
In  the  patrician  associations  of  these  two  churches 
there  was  no  place  for  the  humbler  class  of  the  Christian 
community  in  Calcutta,  and  they  went  no-  TheBowBaaar 
where  on  the  Sundays  but  to  the  liquor  shops.  ChM*u 
It  was  for  their  benefit  that  the  Serampore  missionaries 
had  opened  a  room  for  divine  service,  defraying  the  whole  of 
the  expense  themselves.  But  their  success  was  very  partial, 
many  objecting  to  enter  the  dwelling  of  a  private  individual 
for  public  worship.  The  room,  moreover,  was  ill  chosen. 
It  was  a  large  hall  in  the  house  of  Mr.  Lindeman,  the  un- 
dertaker ;  and  there  was  a  natural  repugnance  in  the  minds 
of  many  to  wade,  Sunday  after  Sunday,  through  a  range  of 


Digitized  by 


Google 


208  HISTORY  OF  THE  SBRAMPORE  MISSION,      [Chap.  IV: 

coffins,  and  other  such  emblems  of  mortality.  The  mis- 
sionaries were  soon  made  aware  of  the  fact,  that  the  erection 
of  a  public  edifice  was  necessary  to  meet  the  wants  and 
the  prejudices  of  the  lower  classes,  and  to  secure  a  larger 
attendance.  The  undertaking  was  frequently  discussed 
with  Mr.  Brown  at  Aldeen,  who  encouraged  the  views 
of  the  missionaries  with  cordiality,  and  subscribed  500 
rupees  towards  the  chapel.  Mr.  Ward  drew  up  the 
prospectus  of  the  building,  and  on  the  first  day  of  the 
year  attended  a  meeting  of  the  friends  of  the  cause  in 
Calcutta,  when  it  was  discussed  and  adopted,  and  the 
sum  of  380J.  subscribed  on  the  spot.  The  missionaries 
added  100Z.  from  their  own  funds,  and  in  the  course  of 
the  year  the  contributions  reached  7001.  The  object  of 
the  missionaries  was  not  to  establish  a  chapel  to  propa- 
gate the  peculiar  sentiments  of  their  own  denomination, 
but  to  bring  the  forlorn  beings  in  Calcutta,  who  bore  the 
Christian  name,  and  disgraced  it  by  their  ignorance  and 
vice,  under  the  influence  of  religious  instruction.  They 
announced,  therefore,  that  the  chapel  was  intended  for 
the  worship  of  all  denominations.  The  expense  of  com- 
pleting the  building  eventually  fell  on  the  missionaries 
themselves,  who  were  obliged  to  advance  more  than  half 
the  builder's  bill  from  their  own  resources,  and  it  thus 
came  under  their  paramount  control,  as  we  shall  have 
occasion  hereafter  to  explain.  This  circumstance  gave 
rise,  in  the  course  of  time,  when  the  difficulties  connected 
with  the  first  movement  were  forgotten,  to  the  most  acri- 
monious discussions,  and  contributed  for  many  years  to 
embitter  their  lives. 

It  has  been  stated  in  a  previous  chapter,  that  on  the 
establishment  of  the  Mission  at  Serampore  in  1800,  the 
Eari  rind  le  missionaries  determined  to  engage  in  business 
ecodmy  adopted  for  their  own  support,  and  to  throw  their  profits 
at  serampor..     jntQ  ft  common  8tock,  but  without  reserving 

anything  for  themselves.  Down  to  that  period,  all  mis- 
sionaries in  India  had  always  united  secular  occupations 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1805.]  HISTORY  OF   THE   SERAMPORK   MISSION.  209 

with  missionary  labour.     None  of  them  seem  at  any  time 
to  have  depended  for  support  on  the  scanty  assistance  re- 
ceived from  Europe.   It  does  not  appear  that  the  Christian 
Knowledge  Society,  with  whom  alone   the    missionaries 
in  India  had  been  connected,  ever  regarded  themselves 
responsible  for  their  entire  support,  or  considered  them  as 
violating  any  missionary  principle  by  eking  out  a  liveli- 
hood by  their  own  exertions.     Some  of  the  missionaries, 
while  borne  on  the  books  of  the  Society  in  London,  were 
enabled  to  accumulate  a  little  independence,  which  they 
disposed  of  at  their  own  discretion,  and  over  which  that 
Society  never  dreamt  of  assuming  any  control.    Schwartz 
bequeathed  his  money  as  he  willed,  and  his  colleague, 
Gericke,  at  his  death,  left  5000Z.     When  the  Kev.  Tobias 
Ringletaube  was  coming  out  to  India,  the  year  before  the 
arrival  of  Mr.  Marshman  and  Mr.  Ward,  a  very  strenuous 
effort   was   made   to  induce   the   Christian  Knowledge 
Society  to  increase  his  allowance  from  100/.  to  1502.  a 
year,  but  the  increase  was  granted  only  for  one  year,  and 
the  promoter  of  the  proposal  observed,  that  if  he  was  able 
to  obtain  funds  from  his  own  labour  on  his  arrival  in 
India,  the  additional  grant  of  501.  would  cease.     In  a  vale- 
dictory letter  to  him,  Mr.  Charles  Grant  stated  that  he 
would  probably  be  enabled  to  make  up  the  deficiency  of 
his  allowance  from  home  by  taking  pupils,  as  Kiernander 
had  done  before  him.     The  Serampore  missionaries,  there- 
fore, when  they  resolved  to  support  themselves  while 
labouring  to  spread  the  Gospel,  simply  adopted  the  prin- 
ciple on  which  Missions  had  been  conducted  before  the 
modern  missionary  system  was  organised  on  its  present 
footing,  and  the  relation  between  the  missionary  and  the 
Society  assumed  its  present  more  secular  type.     The  only 
difference  in  their  case  was  the  adoption  of  the  novel 
principle  of  divesting  themselves  of  all  right  of  property 
in  their  own  earnings,  and  consecrating  it  exclusively  to 
the  cause  in  which  they  had  embarked,  by  the  formation 
of  a  common  stock. 

vol.  i.  p 


Digitized  by 


Google 


210  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPOBE  MISSION.      [Chap.  IV. 

Mr.  Fuller,  however,  considered  that  they  had  carried 
the  principle  of  self-denial  too  far,  and  proposed  to  the 
Mr.  Fuller's  <*.  committee  that  the  missionaries  should  be  ad- 
ject™ «>  it.  yise(i  t0  suspend  the  rule  they  had  adopted 
of  devoting  the  whole -of  their  income  to  the  cause  of 
Missions,  and  appropriate  it  for  one  year,  as  a  pro- 
vision for  their  families.  Incredible,  as  it  may  seem, 
the  committee  demurred  at  the  proposal,  although  they 
had  not,  either  by  express  stipulation,  or  by  the  analogy 
of  missionary  arrangements,  the  slightest  control  in  the 
matter ;  but  Mr.  Fuller  was  unwilling  to  abandon  a  pro- 
position which  he  considered  so  just  and  equitable,  and 
desired  the  missionaries  freely  to  communicate  their  own 
wishes  on  the  subject.  To  this  proposal  Mr.  Marshman 
replied:  "I  cannot  but  feel  your  kindness  in  the  most 
sensible  manner.  I  am  glad,  however,  you  did  not  resolve 
on  what  you  intended.  So  far  from  having  any  wish  of 
the  kind,  I  myself — and  I  am  sure  I  can  answer  for  Mrs. 
Marshman  and  my  dear  b  re  then— esteem  it  as  one  of  the 
greatest  favours  conferred  on  me  that  I  am  permitted,  by 
the  labour  of  my  hands,  to  contribute  in  any  small  degree 
to  the  support  of  His  cause,  to  whom  I  owe  '  my  life,  my 
soul,  my  all.1 "  Mr.  Ward  replied  to  Mr.  Fuller  in  much 
the  same  strain :  "  I  can,  in  some  measure,  perceive  the 
feeling  which  gave  rise  to  this  proposal,  and  it  is  honour- 
able to  you ;  but  I  cannot  say  I  approve  of  it.  With 
respect  to  myself,  I  have  no  idea  —  because  I  have  not 
thought  of  it — what  pecuniary  profit  is  derived  to  the 
Mission  from  my  labours,  but  I  will  speak  of  my  brethren. 
After  they  have  ventured  their  lives  and  their  families  in 
the  Mission,  can  it  be  supposed  that  they  now  count  the 
cowries  they  contribute  to  it  ?  Is  it  unreasonable  that  we 
should  subsist  by  our  own  labour,  and  after  that  contri- 
bute a  mite  to  the  cause  of  God  ?"  After  the  receipt  of 
these  replies,  Mr.  Fuller  did  ixot  renew  his  proposals  to 
the  committee.  But  while  the  three  men  of  Serampore 
exhibited  such  disinterestedness,  and  doubled  the  subscrip- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1805.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SEBAMPOBB  MISSION.  211 

tions  of  the  whole  denomination  at  home,  no  reciprocal 
feeling  of  generosity  was  manifested  in  England.  Mrs. 
Ward  happened,  in  one  of  her  letters  to  a  friend  in  the 
country,  to  mention  the  price  she  was  obliged  to  pay  for  a 
bonnet,  which,  like  all  other  articles  from  England,  had 
risen  during  the  war.  The  value  of  the  bonnet  had  come 
out  of  the  40$.  a  month  which  she  and  her  husband  re- 
ceived to  cover  all  their  personal  expenses.  The  subject 
was  brought  forward  at  a  meeting  of  the  committee,  and 
the  price  was  said  to  be  "  enormous."  The  remarks  which 
were  made  on  the  occasion  were  so  indelicate,  that  Mr. 
Fuller  felt  it  necessary — though  not  without  many  apo- 
logies— to  suggest  that  Mrs.  Ward  should  in  future  be 
more  cautious  in  her  communications  to  England.  It  is 
difficult  to  allude,  without  indignation,  to  the  feelings 
thus  exhibited  by  the  subscribers  of  a  few  shillings  at 
home  towards  the  men  who  were  pouring  into  the  lap  of 
the  Society  their  own  contributions  by  thousands  of 
pounds,  and  sacrificing  their  health,  their  strength,  and 
every  prospect  in  life,  and  the  comfort  and  independence 
of  their  families,  to  the  promotion  of  the  cause.  To  such 
impertinence,  however,  missionaries  have  been  too  often 
exposed  from  the  commencement  of  modern  Missions. 
Those  who  give  least  are  always  the  most  disposed  to  be 
meddling  and  censorious.  The  man  who  puts  his  name 
down  for  some  ten  and  sixpence  annually  considers  him- 
self entitled  to  a  full  guinea's  worth  of  reflections  on  the 
expenditure  of  the  missionaries,  and  of  their  wives  and 
children.  How  different  were  the  sentiments  of  Mr.  Ward 
on  hearing,  as  he  did  about  this  time,  that  Mr.  Gericke 
had  bequeathed  50,000rs.  of  his  own  property  to  the  sup- 
port of  the  Mission.  Instead  of  censuring  him  for  the 
possession  of  so  much  wealth,  and  dwelling  on  the  injury 
it  must  inflict  on  the  cause  of  missions  in  Europe,  he 
records  in  his  journal,  "  How  blessed  is  the  memory  of  the 
just." 

At  the  commencement  of  this  year,  the  Mission  was 

p  2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


212  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  IV. 

strengthened  by  the  arrival  of  four  missionaries  from 
England, — the  Rev.  William  Moore,  Joshua  Rowe,  John 
Arrival  of  four  Biss,  and  John  Mardon.  As  the  East  India 
miuionarie*  Company  still  continued  hostile  to  the  mis- 
sionary enterprise,  and  permission  could  not  be  obtained 
to  embark  in  their  vessels,  the  missionaries  were  obliged 
to  proceed  to  America,  and  await  the  opportunity  of  a 
vessel  to  India.  No  vessel  had  been  laid  on  for  Calcutta, 
and  they  therefore  embarked  for  Madras  where  they  took 
shipping  for  Calcutta  in  two  parties.  While  Mr.  Biss  and 
Mr.  Mardon  were  detained  at  Madras,  some  of  the  Euro- 
pean residents  requested  them  to  remain  and  establish  a 
Mission  in  that  town,  and  raised  a  subscription  of  more 
than  lOOt  A  memorial,  signed  by  ninety-three,  was  sent 
to  Serampore  on  the  subject.  While  the  missionaries 
awaited  a  reply,  they  called  on  Dr.  Kerr,  the  senior  chap- 
lain, and  a  man  of  great  liberality  of  feeling,  and  an 
enthusiast  for  missionary  undertakings,  and  requested  him 
to  ascertain  whether  there  would  be  any  objection  on  the 
part  of  government  to  the  establishment  of  such  a  Mission. 
The  Governor  at  the  time  was  Lord  William  Bentinck, 
whose  administration  as  Governor-General,  a  quarter  of  a 
century  later,  was  immortalised  by  the  abolition  of  female 
immolation.  He  replied,  that  though  it  was  beyond  his 
power  to  grant  them  official  permission  to  remain  in  a  mis- 
sionary character  at  Madras,  he  was  anxious  to  favour  the 
efforts  of  every  Protestant  missionary,  and  they  would 
meet  with  no  obstruction  while  he  continued  in  authority. 
The  reply  from  Serampore  was  not  favourable ;  but  it  was 
written  in  the  spirit  which  always  animated  Mr.  Carey 
and  his  associates.  They  declined  to  concur  in  the  esta- 
blishment of  a  Baptist  Mission  at  Madras,  on  the  ground 
that  it  was  their  duty  to  plant  the  Gospel  where  it  was 
not  already  known,  and  not  to  enter  on  other  men's 
labours.  The  missionaries  landed  in  Calcutta  without  any 
molestation.  It  was  enough  for  government,  still  under 
the  rule  of  Lord  Wellesley,  to  know  that  they  were  going 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1805.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  213 

to  join  their  brethren  at  Serampore,  to  allow  them  to 
enter  the  country  without  inquiry.  The  converts  wel- 
comed the  arrival  of  four  additional  friends  by  what  had 
the  appearance  of  a  love-feast.  After  a  meeting  of 
thanksgiving,  the  little  Christian  community  at  Seram- 
pore sat  down,  fifty  in  number,  to  an  entertainment 
purely  native  in  its  character. 

The  missionaries  were  now  straitened  for  accommodation. 
The  Mission  consisted  of  eight  families,  including  Mr.  Felix 
Carey,  who  had  been  accepted  as  a  missionary  Pttrchaie  rf 
by  the  Society,  and  had  been  recently  married.  °*irPw,Bl,ai- 
The  school  had  considerably  increased,  and  the  printing 
office  required  enlargement.  The  premises  to  the  east  of 
the  chapel  happened  at  this  time  to  be  offered  for  sale,  and 
they  were  purchased  without  hesitation  for  1420/.,  though 
the  missionaries  did  not  possess  the  means  of  paying  for 
them*  They  sought  a  loan  in  Calcutta,  but  without 
success,  though  they  were  willing  to  submit  to  exorbitant 
terms.  At  length,  a  Mr.  Maylin,  who  had  realised  a  con- 
siderable fortune  as  a  river  trader,  and  who  now  took  a 
deep  interest  in  missionary  operations,  advanced  them 
the  requisite  funds  at  10  per  cent,  interest.  The  loan  was 
gradually  repaid  from  the  proceeds  of  their  labour ;  but 
for  the  property,  they  again  made  themselves  trustees  on 
behalf  of  the  Society.  The  three  parcels  of  ground,  which 
henceforth  formed  the  "  Mission  premises,"  and  to  which 
we  shall  have  occasion  to  refer  before  the  close  of  this 
work,  had  thus  cost  about  3000/.,  or  less  than  the  amount 
of  their  net  income  for  two  years. 

On  the  18th  of  May,  the  settlement  of  Serampore  was 
deprived  of  its  excellent  Governor,  Colonel  Bie.  He  died  at 
the  advanced  age  of  seventy-five,  after  having  u^  of 
administered  the  affairs  of  the  settlement  for  CoionelBle- 
more  than  forty  years.  He  was  universally  beloved  by 
the  natives,  who  crowded  to  his  funeral,  exclaiming, 
u  Never  shall  we  see  such  a  master  again ! "  He  received 
Mr.  Marshman  and  Mr.  Ward  under  his  protection  at  a 

p3 


Digitized  by 


Google 


214  HISTOBY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION*      [Chap.  IV. 

time  when  they  were  refused  a  footing  in  the  British 
dominions.  He  thus  became  the  instrument,  under 
God,  of  giving  the  missionary  enterprise  an  asylum,  in 
which  it  was  enabled  to  weather  the  opposition  of  the 
British  Government,  and  to  take  root  in  the  country.  It 
was  Colonel  Bie  who  recommended  the  missionaries  to 
the  notice  of  the  court  of  Copenhagen,  and  procured  for 
them  that  royal  countenance  which  proved  of  inestimable 
value  at  the  most  critical  period  of  the  Mission.  He  was 
buried  with  military  honours,  and  Mr.  Carey  performed 
the  funeral  service  at  the  grave. 

The  church  at  Serampore  had,  for  more  than  five  years, 
adhered  to  the  practice  of  what  is  denominationally  called 
opencommmiion  "strict  communion;"  that  is,  that  none  but 
in  the  church.    ^0se  w^0  j^  j^^  bap^ed  by  immersion, 

after  a  personal  confession  of  faith,  were  admitted  to  the 
ordinance  of  the  Lord's  Supper.  Mr.  Marshman  and  Mr. 
Ward  were  open  communionists  when  they  left  England,  and 
the  l  beloved  commander  of  the  Criterion/  as  they  usually  de- 
signated Capt.  Wickes,  though  a  Presbyterian,  always  com- 
municated with  them  on  the  voyage.  But  Mr.  Carey  had 
imbibed  the  principle  of  strict  communion  from  Mr.  Fuller 
and  the  other  ministers  of  Northamptonshire,  and  on  the 
formation  of  the  church  at  Serampore,  persuaded  his 
colleagues  to  adopt  it.  The  communion  table  was,  there- 
fore, closed  against  all  who  did  not  belong  to  the  Baptist 
persuasion ;  and  Captain  Wickes,  on  his  return  to  Bengal, 
was  informed — though  not  without  the  deepest  reluctance 
— that  the  rules  of  the  church  no  longer  permitted  him  to 
unite  with  them  at  the  sacrament.  Mr.  Ward  more 
particularly  deplored  this  rigid,  and,  as  he  thought,  un- 
lovely proceeding,  though  he  considered  it  his  duty  not  to 
disturb  the  harmony  of  the  church  and  Mission.  *  But 
after  Mr.  Brown  had  taken  up  his  permanent  residence  at 
Serampore,  the  subject  was  frequently  brought  under  dis- 
cussion, and  he  urged  the  reconsideration  of  a  rule  which 
debarred  many  Christian  friends  from  partaking  of  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1805.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPOBB  MISSION.  215 

sacrament  at  the  Mission  Chapel,  in  conjunction  with  those 
whom  they  held  in  high  esteem.  Mr.  Marshman  was 
influenced  by  these  arguments,  and  brought  Mr.  Carey 
round  to  the  same  views,  and  the  communion  table  was 
opened  to  all  who  professed  the  same  Christian  sentiments. 
As  one  result  of  this  relaxation,  Mrs.  Brown,  the  wife  of 
the  senior  chaplain,  then  the  head  of  the  ecclesiastical 
department  at  the  Presidency,  partook  periodically  of  the 
ordinance  with  the  missionaries.  Mr.  Ward  recorded  in 
his  journal,  that  the  alteration  was  not  effected  by  his 
arguments,  though  he  should  have  thought  it  an  honour  if 
it  had  been  so;  that  their  newly-arrived  brethren  had 
adopted  it  cheerfully,  and  that  all  the  sisters  seemed  to 
have  been  previously  on  the  6  amiable  side  of  the  question/ 
"I  rejoice  that  the  first  Baptist  church  in  Bengal  has 
shaken  off  that  apparent  moroseness  of  temper  which  has 
so  long  made  us  appear  unlovely  in  the  sight  of  the 
Christian  world.  I  am  glad  that  this  church  considers 
real  religion  alone  as  the  ground  of  admission  to  the  Lord's 
table.  With  regard  to  a  church  state,  a  stricter  union 
may  be  required;  but  to  partake  of  the  Lord's  Supper 
worthily,  it  requires  only  that  a  man's  heart  be  right 
towards  God." 

Soon  after  the  arrival  of  this  reinforcement  of  mission- 
aries, a  plan  was  formed  for  sending  Mr.  Mardon  on  a 
distant  and  perilous  enterprise.  The  freedom  Propo$ed  Mll. 
which  the  missionaries  had  enjoyed  during  the  iloa  to  Chlniu 
administration  of  Lord  Wellesley  appears  to  have  given  a 
feeling  of  elasticity  to  their  minds ;  and  there  was  no  limit 
in  their  opinion  to  the  extension  of  their  efforts,  except 
that  of  their  own  resources.  Mr.  Buchanan  was  preparing 
at  this  time  to  proceed  on  a  visit  to  the  Syrian  Christians 
on  the  Coromandel  coast,  to  investigate  the  history,  and 
ascertain  the  condition  of  that  ancient  community.  It  was 
an  undertaking  of  deep  interest,  and  the  narrative  of  his 
researches  produced  a  powerful  sensation  on  its  publica- 
tion in  England,  where  everything  connected  with  India 

p  4 


Digitized  by 


Google 


216  HISTORY  OF  THE  SEBAMPORB  MISSION.      [Chap.  IV. 

had  the  charm  of  novelty  and  romance.  Before  he  set 
out  on  this  journey,  he  offered  to  place  5000rs.  at  the 
disposal  of  the  Serampore  missionaries  to  defray  the  ex- 
pense of  sending  two  missionaries  overland  to  the  borders 
of  China,  to  explore  the  intermediate  country,  and  ascertain 
the  facilities  which  existed  for  missionary  operations.  Such 
an  enterprise  was  sure  to  commend  itself  to  Mr.  Carey's 
buoyant  mind,  and  in  exact  proportion  to  the  difficulties 
which  surrounded  it.  He  would  himself  have  undertaken 
to  carry  it  out  without  hesitation,  if  circumstances  had 
been  favourable.  He  entered  into  the  plan  with  great 
ardour,  and  in  his  letter  to  Mr.  Fuller,  describes,  with  the 
greatest  coolness,  a  project  of  the  utmost  peril :  "  It  is  not 
improbable  that  Mr.  Mardon  and  my  son  Felix  may  go ; 
their  way  would  be  to  Dacca,  then  up  the  Berhampootra, 
through  Assam,  and  thus  to  China."  But  upon  more  ma- 
ture consideration,  this  dangerous  journey  was  abandoned. 
On  the  30th  of  July,  the  administration  of  Lord  Wel- 
lesley  terminated  by  the  unexpected  arrival  of  his  suc- 
Lord  weiiwieg  cessor,  Lord  Cornwallis.  He  had  long  been 
nuriu  <m  it.  anxious  to  be  relieved  from  a  post  in  which  he 
was  incessantly  exposed  to  the  hostility  of  the  India  House. 
In  November,  1804,  the  Court  of  Directors  sent  out  a  de- 
spatch to  Calcutta,  in  which  many  of  his  proceedings  were 
censured  in  a  tone  of  such  acerbity,  as  to  render  his  position 
at  the  head  of  the  government  no  longer  tenable.  To  these 
charges,  a  full  and  satisfactory  reply  was  given  by  the 
united  Council  of  India.  The  Directors,  however,  prepared 
another  despatch,  long  remembered  as  No.  128,  in  which 
they  recapitulated  all  the  crimes  and  misdemeanours  with 
which  they  considered  his  administration  chargeable.  It 
•was  a  bill  of  indictment,  extending  over  seven  years  of  the 
most  laborious  and  brilliant  services  which  the  East  India 
Company  had  ever  received  from  any  single  individual 
since  Clive  had  made  them  sovereigns.  It  was  the  concen- 
trated essence  of  those  feelings  of  animosity  which  had 
been  fermenting  in  their  minds  for  years.     The  Board  of 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1805.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  5BRAMPOBE  MISSION.  217 

Control  quashed  the  document  without  reserve,  and  sub- 
stituted for  it  a  despatch,  written  in  a  spirit  of  mild  re- 
monstrance, and  with  that  feeling  of  respect  which  was  due 
to  the  great  achievements  of  so  eminent  a  statesman.  It 
is  true,  that  Lord  Wellesley  had  sometimes  acted  with  a 
degree  of  independence  not  altogether  compatible  with  that 
subordinate  position  which  the  legislature  had  assigned  to 
the  Governor-General ;  but  this  independence  of  action  was 
in  some  measure  forced  on  him  by  the  responsibilities  of 
his  station,  and  the  delay  which  at  that  time  attended  all 
references  to  England.  He  considered  himself  entrusted 
with  the  interests  of  a  great  empire,  and  the  destinies  of  a 
large  portion  of  the  human  family,  and  his  views  and 
actions  rose  to  a  level  with  his  position.  The  Court,  on  the 
other  hand,  had  not  yet  shaken  off  the  feelings  of  the 
counting-house,  or  acquired  a  due  sympathy  with  those 
broad,  political  views  which  belonged  to  the  empire.  While 
they  were  spending  day  after  day,  and  month  after  month, 
in  debating  upon  the  extent  to  which  they  could  admit  of 
private  trade  in  India  by  interlopers,  without  impairing 
their  monopoly,  Lord  Wellesley's  attention  was  directed  to 
the  expansion,  the  consolidation,  and  the  improvement  of 
the  empire.  The  extent  to  which  the  factious  opposition 
at  the  India  House  had  affected  his  mind,  may  be  gathered 
from  his  private  letters  to  his  friends.  To  one  he  writes : — 
"  The  motives  of  the  conduct  of  my  personal  enemies  at 
the  India  House  are  sufficiently  evident ;  and  my  expec- 
tations from  that  quarter  are  rather  disappointed  by  any 
transient  and  momentary  gleam  of  justice  and  reason,  which 
may  accidentally  appear  in  the  general  tumults  of  personal 
prejudice  and  vindictive  fury."  To  another: — "  I  hope  I 
shall  be  enabled  to  relinquish  the  service  of  my  honourable 
employers  in  the  month  of  January  or  February  next. 
Your  lordship  may  be  assured,  however,  that  as  no  symp- 
toms of  tardy  remorse  displayed  by  the  Honourable  Court, 
in  consequence  of  my  recent  success  in  India,  will  vary  my 
present  estimation  of  the  faith  and  honour  of  my  very 


Digitized  by 


Google 


218  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORB  MISSION.      [Chap.  IV. 

worthy  and  approved  good  masters,  or  protract  my  con- 
tinuance in  India  for  one  hour  beyond  the  limits  prescribed 
by  the  public  interests,  so  no  additional  outrage,  injury,  or 
insult,  which  can  issue  from  the  most  loathsome  den  of  the 
India  House,  will  accelerate  my  departure,  while  the  public 
safety  shall  appear  to  require  my  aid  in  this  arduous  sta- 
tion." The  Serampore  missionaries,  and  their  undertak- 
ing— except  on  their  arrival  in  1799 — he  always  regarded 
,  with  a  favourable  eye,  at  a  time  when  the  leading  members 
of  the  Court  of  Directors  and  proprietors,  and  their  servants 
in  high  places  in  India,  manifested  the  most  unmitigated 
hostility  to  it.  This  fact  is  strongly  corroborated  in  a 
letter  from  Mr.  Brown  to  Mr.  Fuller  in  1804,  in  which  he 
says,  "  The  storms  within  this  past  year  have  safely  passed 
over,  the  danger  of  which  your  brethren  did  not  know  at 
the  time,  as  no  reference  was  made  to  them.  They,  good 
people,  were  securely  asleep  in  the  vessel  at  Serampore, 
while  their  printed  Bengalee  papers,  circulated  among  the 
Hindoos,  were  lying  before  government,  charged  with  in- 
culcating sedition,  republicanism,  and  religious  anathemas 
against  the  British  subjects  in  India.  On  these  papers,  I 
reported  at  large.  I  only  troubled  your  friends  for  a  faith- 
ful translation  of  the  papers.  I  thought  it  unnecessary  to 
add  to  their  difficulties  by  acquainting  them  with  the  hard 
speeches  uttered  against  them  at  the  time.  At  present,  all 
is  tranquil;  when  the  Gospel  is  received  by  the  Hindoos, 
then  will  you  hear  of  another  storm."  Lord  Wellesley 
not  only  permitted  the  introduction  of  other  missionaries 
into  India,  but  he  allowed  them  to  travel  freely  through 
the  country,  preaching  the  Gospel  and  distributing  tracts 
and  Scriptures,  without  inquiry.  When,  therefore,  the 
inhabitants  of  Calcutta,  to  the  number  of  six  hundred, 
went  up  to  him  with  a  valedictory  address,  Mr.  Carey 
and  his  two  colleagues  felt  themselves  bound,  by  feelings 
of  gratitude  as  well  as  of  patriotism,  to  unite  with  them  in 
offering  "  that  testimony  of  esteem  which  they  felt  to  be 
so  justly  due  to  the  merits  of  his  administration." 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1805.]  HISTORY   OF  THE  8ERAMFORE   MISSION.  219 

This  proceeding  of  the  missionaries  did  not,  however, 
meet  with  Mr.  Fuller's  concurrence.  In  writing  to  them 
on  the  subject,  he  said,  "Gratitude  required 
your  acknowledgment  to  Marquis  Wellesley,  wV^iVtte 
but  not  your  signature  to  a  paper  which  ap-  ^••<jjeLord 
proves  and  boasts  of  his  wars,  which  are  here 
generally  thought  to  be  nearly  as  ambitious  and  unjust  as 
those  of  Bonaparte."  But  the  allusion  to  these  wars,  in  the 
address,  was  exceedingly  moderate :  "  Your  discernment 
in  seeing  the  exigencies  of  the  country,  and  of  the  times 
in  which  you  were  called  to  act — the  promptness  and  deter- 
mination with  which  you  have  seized  on  the  opportunities 
of  acting — your  just  conception  and  masterly  use  of  our 
own  intrinsic  strength — have  eminently  contributed,  in  con- 
junction with  the  zeal,  the  discipline,  and  the  courage  of 
our  armies,  to  decide  upon  these  events,  and  to  establish 
from  onte  extremity  of  the  empire  to  the  other  the  ascen- 
dancy of  the  British  name  and  dominion."  But  even  if 
the  allusion  had  been  more  distinct  and  pointed,  Mr. 
Fuller's  censure  must  be  taken  simply  as  reflecting  the 
opinions  which  then  prevailed  in  England  on  the  growth 
of  our  Indian  empire.  In  India,  where  the  baseness  of 
the  native  character  is  thoroughly  understood,  and  we  con- 
front the  restless  spirit  of  native  intrigue  and  the  faithless- 
ness of  native  princes,  the  exigencies  in  which  these  wars 
have  originated  are  fully  appreciated.  Mr.  Fuller,  on  the 
contrary,  and  the  community  in  England,  appear  to  have 
generally,  if  not  invariably,  adopted  the  conclusion  that 
every  war  waged  in  India  had  been,  was,  and  ever  must 
be  a  war  of  aggression,  the  offspring  of  unprincipled 
ambition,  and  was  therefore  to  be  condemned  without 
any  examination.  It  is  a  singular  circumstance,  without 
a  parallel  in  history,  that  during  the  century  in  which  our 
possessions  have  been  expanding  from  the  size  of  three 
narrow  factories  to  the  dimensions  of  an  empire  larger 
than  that  of  Rome,  the  people  of  England,  and  its  journal- 
ists and  statesmen,  with  rare  exceptions,  have  at  every 


Digitized  by 


Google 


220  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION,      [Chap.  IV. 

successive  stage  of  progress,  considered  it  a  sacred  duty 
to  denounce  the  proceedings  of  the  Indian  Government. 
Few  have  dispassionately  investigated  the  causes  of  the 
wars  they  have  so  violently  condemned,  or  done  justice 
to  the  sincere  reluctance  with  which  the  Government  in 
India  has  in  almost  every  instance  entered  upon  them. 
Few  have  been  able  to  discern  the  singular  yet  undeniable 
movements  of  Providence  by  which  that  empire  has  been 
created,  and  its  responsibilities  thrust  on  the  British 
nation,  contrary  to  its  wishes,  and  in  spite  of  the  uni- 
versal reprobation  of  the  public  and  the  denunciations 
of  Parliament.  Mr.  Fuller's  observations  may  be  readily 
excused  when  we  find  that  after  the  lapse,  not  of  fifty, 
but  a  hundred  years,  when  the  British  supremacy  in  the 
East  is  among  the  facts  of  history,  and  the  improvement 
of  its  hundred  and  fifty  millions  is  considered  the  most 
stringent  of  national  obligations,  there  are  yet  men  to  be 
found,  reasonable  enough  in  other  points,  who  twaddle 
about  the  lust  of  territorial  aggrandisement,  and  shed 
tears  over  the  misfortunes  of  pensioned  princes,  and  heave 
a  patriotic  sigh  at  the  degradation  of  the  British  name  and 
character  in  India. 

Immediately  before  Lord  Wellesley's  departure,  Mr. 
Carey  and  Mr.  Marshman  undertook  the  publication  of 
publication  of  s<>me  of  the  most  celebrated  Sanscrit  works, 
saiucritwork..    un(Jer  the  patronage  of  Government.      Two 

years  before  this  period,  Mr.  Carey  had  submitted  a  pro- 
posal to  the  College  of  Fort  William  to  print  a  series  of 
Sanscrit  classics.  The  plan  was  deemed  too  extensive  by 
some,  and,  happening  to  come  under  discussion  at  the 
time  when  the  fate  of  the  College  itself  was  trembling  in 
the  balance,  it  was  folded  up.  But  the  College  had  now 
been  respited  by  the  Court  of  Directors,  and  the  time  was 
deemed  propitious  for  renewing  the  proposal.  Mr. 
Carey  brought  it  to  the  notice  of  Dr.  Francis  Buchanan, 
who  had  recently  completed  the  statistical  survey  of 
eight  districts  in  Bengal  and  Behar.     That  enthusiastic 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1805.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMFORE  MISSION.  221 

antiquary  welcomed  Mr.  Carey's  plan  with  delight, 
and  brought  it  to  the  notice  of  Sir  John  Anstruther, 
the  chief  justice,  who  was  at  the  time  the  president  of 
the  Asiatic  Society*  He  became  equally  solicitous 
for  the  prosecution  of  this  literary  undertaking,  and  it 
was  eventually  arranged  that  the  College  of  Fort  Wil- 
liam and  the  Asiatic  Society  should  each  subscribe  150 
rupees  a  month  towards  the  expense  of  publishing  any 
works  which  might  be  selected  in  the  original  Sanscrit, 
with  an  English  translation.  At  the  recommendation  of 
Mr.  Carey,  it  was  resolved  to  begin  with  the  Ramayun,  the 
Iliad  of  Sanscrit  literature.  The  translation  of  this  work, 
which  was  a  most  arduous  undertaking,  was  now  added  to 
the  labours  of  Mr.  Carey  and  Mr.  Marshman,  but  the  toil 
was  lightened  by  the  reflection  that  "  means  would  thus  be 
obtained  of  supporting  at  least  one  missionary  station." 

Mr.  Carey  and  his  colleagues  had  from  the  period  of 
their  settlement  at  Serampore  contemplated  with  painful 
interest  the  immolation  of  widows.  They  had  immouaonof 
been  unremitting  in  their  endeavours  to  draw  wJd0W1, 
the  attention  of  government  to  it.  This  inhuman  prac- 
tice was  little  known  at  the  time  in  England,  and  was 
regarded  merely  as  one  of  the  characteristic  features 
of  society  among  "  the  Gentoos." .  No  feeling  of  national 
responsibility  was  associated  with  the  continuance  of 
this  rite  under  British  rule.  Few,  either  in  England 
or  in  India,  appeared  to  be  aware  of  the  extent  to  which 
it  was  practised,  and  the  missionaries  considered  that 
the  first  step  towards  its  abolition  was  to  bring  the 
number  of  victims  prominently  into  view.  They  accord- 
ingly deputed  natives  in  1803  to  travel  from  place  to 
place,  within  a  circle  of  thirty  milea^xound  Calcutta,  to  ^ 
make  inquiries  on  the  subject,  and  the  number  was  found 
to  exceed  four  hundred  in  the  year.  To  obtain  a  more 
accurate  return,  ten  agents  were  the  next  year  stationed 
within  this  circle  at  different  places  on  the  banks  of  the 
river,  and  they  continued  at  their  stations  for  six  months, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


222  HISTORY  OF  THE   SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  IV. 

noting  down  every  instance  of  suttee  which  came  within 
their  observation.  The  result  gave  the  number  at  thj$e 
hundred.  At  the  same  time  Mr.  Carey  collected  from  the 
pundits  connected  with  the  College,  the  various  texts  in 
the  shastrus,  on  which  this  practice  was  based.  These 
documents  were  placed  in  the  hands  of  Mr.  Udny,  the  phi- 
lanthropic member  of  Council,  and  embodied  by  him  in  a 
representation  which  he  submitted  on  the  subject  to  Lord 
Wellesley  and  the  Supreme  Council.  It  was  the  first 
official  notice  regarding  female  immolation  which  had 
appeared  on  the  records  of  government.  In  that  paper  he 
dwelt  on  the  enormity  of  a  practice  so  revolting  to  every 
feeling  of  humanity,  and  stated  the  extent  to  which  it 
appeared,  on  the  most  unexceptionable  testimony,  to  pre- 
vail. He  referred  to  the  instances  in  which  government 
had  already  endeavoured  to  vindicate  the  claims  of  hu- 
manity, by  a  law  passed  in  1795,  which  prohibited 
brahmins,  in  the  province  of  Benares,  wounding  or 
killing  their  female  relatives,  and  the  tribe  of  Rajkoomars 
destroying  their  female  children,  as  well  as  the  law  of 
1802,  which  interdicted  human  sacrifices  at  Saugor.  Mr. 
Udny  likewise  drew  the  attention  of  his  colleagues  to  the 
extracts  the  pundits  had  furnished  from  the  Hindoo  canon 
law,  which  tended  to  show  that  the  rite  was  rather  coun- 
tenanced than  positively  commanded.  He  concluded  this 
excellent  address  by  entreating  the  Governor-General  and 
Sir  George  Barlow  to  concur  with  him  in  putting  down 
the  custom  by  a  positive  enactment.  But  Lord  Wellesley 
was  to  quit  the  Government  in  seven  days,  and  there  was 
not  leisure  for  the  full  investigation  of  a  measure  which  in- 
volved great  questions  of  public  policy.  However  anxious 
to  prevent  these  religious  suicides,  he  naturally  felt  that 
the  prohibition  of  a  rite  which  had  been  uninterruptedly 
practised,  as  the  natives  affirmed,  from  the  golden  age  of 
the  world,  and  which,  though  it  might  not  have  the  direct 
authority  of  law  had  the  more  important  sanction  of  habit, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1806.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPOBE  MISSION.  223 

and  was  moreover  considered  by  the  Hindoos  as  one  of  the 
most  glorious  institutions  of  their  religion,  required  more 
deliberation  than  the  Council  could  at  that  time  bestow  on 
it.  The  question  was  therefore  postponed  for  another 
quarter  of  a  century,  and  twenty  thousand  more  victims 
ascended  the  funeral  pile,  and  sacrificed  themselves  to  the 
principles  of  a  bloody  superstition. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


224  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  V. 


CHAP.  V 

Lord  Cornwallis  landed  in  Calcutta  with  the  finger  of 
death  upon  him.     Those  who  had  been  present  at  his 

departure  from  the  shores   of   India   twelve 
gStISS'  years  before   in  robust  health  and  buoyant 

spirits,  could  not  remark  without  regret  the 
contrast  which  his  emaciated  countenance  and  exhausted 
frame  now  presented.      Mr.  Brown  writes  on  this  occa- 
sion to  Mr.  Charles  Grant,  "From  the  day  that  Lord 
Cornwallis  arrived  among  us  a  universal  gloom  overspread 
the  faces  of  the  people  of  this  settlement,  not  from  any 
party  or  political  sentiments,  but  we  all  thought  that  he 
would  die,  and  die  soon,  and  that  he  was  unnecessarily 
sacrificed.     His  most  affectionate  and  zealous  friends  per- 
ceived that  his  memory  and  faculties  were  greatly  im- 
paired, and  that  his  strength  was  exhausted."  The  second 
appointment  of  Lord  Cornwallis  to  India  at  the  age  of 
sixty-six,  after  his  mental  and  bodily  energies  had  been 
exhausted  by  thirty  years  of  incessant  service  in  America, 
India,  and  Ireland,  was  an  act  it  would  be  difficult  to  jus- 
tify.    But  that  appointment  was  considered  by  the  Court 
of  Directors  the  strongest  practical  condemnation  they 
could  devise  of  the  measures  of  Lord  Wellesley,  to  whose 
imperial  policy  Lord  Cornwallis  was  diametrically  opposed. 
In  the  language  of  Leadenhall  Street,  "  it  was  intended  to 
express  volumes,"  and  his  life  was  sacrificed  to  the  in- 
veteracy of  prejudice  against  the  man  to  whom  thirty- 
six  years  later  the  India  House  raised  a  statue  as  "  a  public, 
conspicuous,  and  permanent  mark  of  the  admiration  and 
gratitude  of  the  East  India  Company."     Lord  Cornwallis 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1805]  HISTORY  OF   THE   SERAMPORE   MISSION.  225 

proceeded  to  the  north-west  provinces  immediately  on  his 
arrival,  to  reverse  the  measures  of  his  predecessor ;  but  on 
reaching  Gazeepore  his  medical  advisers,  to  his  great  sur- 
prise and  disappointment,  determined  that  it  would  be 
imprudent  to  proceed  farther,  and  he  died  at 
that  station  two  months  after,  landing  in  Cal- 
cutta. There  was  no  chaplain  with  his  fleet,  and  the  only 
Governor-General  who  has  ever  died  in  India  was  there- 
fore interred  without  any  funeral  service.  Regarding  the 
conversion  or  even  improvement  of  the  natives  he  never 
manifested  any  feeling  but  that  of  profound  indifference. 
He  was  succeeded  temporarily  in  the  office  of  Governor- 
General  by  Sir  George  Barlow,  who  had  been  twenty-seven 
years  in  the  civil  service,  and  had  gradually  risen  to  the 
post  of  senior  member  of  council  after  a  meritorious 
career.  From  his  long  experience  he  had  acquired  much 
official  aptitude,  and  his  abilities  were  respectable ;  but  he 
was  little  beyond  a  plodding  man  of  routine,  and  totally 
destitute  of  that  grasp  of  mind  or  strength  of  character 
which  the  government  of  the  British  empire  in  the  East 
required.  While  he  continued  under  the  influence  of 
Lord  Wellesley's  mind,  he  freely  supported  those  liberal 
principles  which  marked  the  era  of  that  great  statesman, 
and  it  was  even  hoped  by  some  that  he  would  tread  in  his 
footsteps.  In  writing  to  Mr.  Grant  on  the  subject,  Mr. 
Brown,  who  had  been  his  associate  for  five  years  in  the 
administration  of  the  college,  said,  "  You  have  now  Sir 
George  Barlow  in  the  chair,  an  able  man,  one  that  fears 
God,  and  a  man  of  truth,  hating  covetousness.  Tell  him 
to  uphold  the  Christian  religion  in  this  land  and  he  will 
do  it.  If  you  wish  to  bring  forward  any  extensive  plan 
for  evangelising  your  Asiatic  subjects,  he  is  the  man 
for  your  views."  But  on  Lord  Wellesley's  departure  other 
counsels  began  to  prevail  in  the  Council  Chamber,  and  Sir 
George's  feeble  and  irresolute  spirit  allowed  the  anti-mis- 
sionary party  to  gain  the  ascendancy  and  regulate  his 
movements.  To  such  an  extent  was  this  carried  that  in 
vox.  i.  o 


Digitized  by 


Google 


226  HISTORY  OF  THE  SBRAMPORE  MISSION.       [Chap,  V. 

a  few  months  Mr.  Brown  described  him  as  a  second 
Julian.  He  was  no  apostate,  but  he  was  timid,  and  the 
want  of  moral  courage  brought  in  question  even  his 
Christian  virtues.  The  difficulties  of  the  missionaries  date 
from  his  appointment,  and  they  were  more  or  less  exposed 
to  the  storms  of  opposition  for  the  succeeding  eight  years, 
till  Parliament  took  the  decision  of  the  missionary  ques- 
tion into  its  own  hands. 

In  their  direct  missionary  labours  during  this  year 
Mr.  Carey  and  his  colleagues  experienced  great  alterna- 
Mis.ionary  m-  .  tiotis  of  success  and  disappointment.  In  March 
pectoris.       «they  regret  the  iow  gtate  of  things  among 

them — no  inquirers — no  new  converts."  Soon  after  they 
remark  that  every  inquirer  had  left  them  clandestinely. 
The  misconduct  of  some  who  had  embraced  Christianity, 
and  the  profligacy  of  others,  disgraced  the  cause  in  the 
eyes  of  the  heathen,  and  inflicted  the  deepest  distress  on 
the  feelings  of  the  missionaries.  But  they  determined  to 
redouble  their  efforts  in  watching  over  those  who  remained 
within  the  fold,  and  itinerating  among  those  who  were 
without.  On  the  1st  of  June  they  baptised  Kangalee,  the 
firstfruits  of  the  Cutwa  Mission,  Sheetaram,  one  of  their 
most  energetic  itinerants,  had  been  stationed  in  Jessore, 
and  he  brought  two  inquirers  on  the  15th  of  that  month, 
a  Rayust  and  a  husbandman,  who  were  received  into  the 
Church  a  week  after  by  baptism.  In  August,  Petumber 
Sing,  one  of  the  earliest  and  most  sincere  and  exemplary 
of  the  converts  was  removed  by  death.  His  walk  and 
conversation  since  his  conversion  had  been  honourable, 
and  in  his  death  he  exhibited  the  triumph  of  Christian 
truth.  A  brief  narrative  of  his  life  was  drawn  up  and 
published,  the  first  of  a  series  of  memoirs  of  native  Chris- 
tians which  the  Serampore  missionaries  compiled,  and 
which  served  to  give  fresh  interest  to  the  missionary 
cause  at  home,  and  to  strengthen  the  faith  of  the  converts 
in  India.  Towards  the  close  of  the  year  their  missionary 
prospects  began  to  brighten.     On  the  20th  of  October 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Principle*  of  the 
renter* 


1805.]  HISTORY   OF  THE  SERAMPORE   MISSION.  227 

they  had  no  fewer  than  fifteen  inquirers  at  or  near  Cal- 
cutta, all  of  whom  were  baptised  before  the  close  of  the 
year.  The  total  number  of  additions  to  the  church  in 
this  year,  which  opened  with  so  little  promise,  was  thirty- 
four,  all  of  whom,  with  the  exception  of  four,  were  adult 
natives. 

The  number  of  missionaries  now  residing  at  Serampore 
amounted  to  eight,  and  Mr.  Carey  and  his  colleagues  were 
anxious  to  establish  subordinate  stations  in  the 
country.  Previous  to  the  adoption  of  this  plan,  SS^y « 
however,  they  considered  it  important  to  place 
on  record  the  leading  principles  on  which  they  thought  it 
their  duty  to  act  in  the  work  of  evangelising  the  heathen. 
This  document  embodies  the  experience  of  six  years  of 
ardent  and  unremitting  exertion  in  the  missionary  field, 
and  is  interesting,  not  merely  from  the  strong  illustration 
it  affords  of  their  devotedness  to  the  work,  but  also  from 
the  sound  and  practical  views  of  missionary  labour  which 
it  exhibits.  It  will  be  necessary,  therefore,  to  present 
a  rather  copious  analysis  of  its  contents.  They  considered 
it  necessary,  in  order  to  gain  the  attention  of  the  heathen, 
that  the  missionary  should  be  fully  acquainted  with  the 
current  of  thought  which  prevailed  among  them,  with 
their  habits,  their  propensities,  their  antipathies,  and  the 
mode  in  which  they  reasoned  about  God,  sin,  holiness,  the 
way  of  salvation,  and  a  future  state ;  and  that  he  should 
not  forget  the  humiliating  character  of  their  idolatrous 
worship,  feasts,  and  songs.  They  considered  it  necessary 
to  abstain  from  whatever  would  tend  to  increase  the  re- 
pugnance of  the  natives  to  the  Gospel,  to  keep  out  of  sight 
those  English  peculiarities  which  were  offensive  to  their 
feelings,  and  at  the  same  time  to  avoid  any  attack  on  their 
prejudices  by  exhibiting  any  degree  of  acrimony  against 
the  sins  of  their  gods,  and  on  no  account  to  do  violence  to 
their  images,  or  to  interrupt  their  worship  —  "  the  real 
conquests  of  the.Gospel  being  those  of  love."  "  It  becomes 
us,"  they  remark,  "to  watch  all  opportunities  of  doing 

Q2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


228  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.       [Chap-  V. 

good,  to  carry  on  conversations  with  the  natives  almost 
every  hour  in  the  day,  to  go  from  village  to  village,  from 
market  to  market,  from  one  assembly  to  another,  and  to 
be  instant  in  season  and  out  of  season ;  this  is  the  life  to 
which  we  are  called  in  this  country."  Regarding  the  style 
of  their  addresses  to  the  heathen,  they  notice  the  necessity 
of  adhering  to  the  example  of  the  Apostle  Paul  and  making 
the  subject  of  their  preaching,  4 Christ  the  crucified.' 
"  The  doctrine  of  Christ's  expiatory  death  and  all-sufficient 
merits  has  been,  and  ever  must  remain,  the  grand  means  of 
salvation."  They  deemed  it  important  that  the  natives 
should  repose  the  most  entire  confidence  in  the  missionary, 
and  feel  at  home  in  his  company,  and  that  in  order  to  gain 
this  confidence  he  should  be  willing  to  listen  to  their  com- 
plaints, to  give  them  the  kindest  advice,  and  to  decide  on 
everything  brought  before  him  in  the  most  open,  upright, 
and  impartial  manner.  "  We  ought  to  form  them  to  habits 
of  industry,  and  to  exercise  much  tenderness  and  for- 
bearance, knowing  that  industrious  habits  are  formed  with 
difficulty  in  all  heathen  nations.  We  ought  also  to  re- 
member that  they  have  no  common  sacrifices  to  make  in 
renouncing  their  connections,  their  homes,  their  former 
situations,  and  means  of  support,  and  that  it  will  be 
difficult  for  them  to  procure  employment  with  heathen 
masters."  Regarding  their  conduct  towards  the  Govern- 
ment, the  missionaries  observe  that  it  was  their  duty  to 
honour  the  civil  magistrate,  and  in  every  state  and  country 
to  render  him  the  readiest  obedience,  whether  persecuted 
or  protected,  and  that  it  became  them  to  instruct  their 
native  brethren  in  the  same  principles. 

Among  the  means  of  diffusing  Christian  truth  in  India 
they  considered  the  training  of  native  preachers  as  the 
principle,  of  most  important.  "Another  part  of  our  work 
Mution..  js  the  forraing  0f  our  native  brethren  to  use- 
fulness, fostering  every  kind  of  genius,  and  cherishing 
every  gift  and  grace  in  them ;  in  this  respect,  we  can 
scarcely  be  too  lavish  of  our  attention  to  their  improve- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1805.]  HISTORY  OF  THE   SEBAMPORE  MISSION.  229 

ment.  It  is  only  by  means  of  native  preachers  we  can 
hope  for  the  universal  spread  of  the  Gospel  through  this 
immense  continent.  Europeans  are  too  few,  and  their 
subsistence  costs  too  much," — even  upon  their  scale  of 
allowances,  scarcely  100Z.  a  year, — "for  us  ever  to  hope 
that  they  can  possibly  be  the  instruments  of  the  universal 
diffusion  of  the  Word  among  so  many  millions."  And  it 
was  mainly  in  reference  to  the  establishment  of  native 
churches,  with  native  pastors,  that  their  attention  was 
fixed  on  the  necessity  of  improving  the  talents  of  native 
converts.  "  The  different  native  churches  will,  in  that 
case,  also,  naturally  learn  to  care  and  provide  for  their 
ministers,  for  their  church  expenses,  and  the  raising 
places  of  worship;  and  the  whole  administration  will 
assume  a  native  aspect,  by  which  means  the  inhabitants 
will  more  readily  identify  the  cause  as  belonging  to  their 
own  nation.  If,  under  the  divine  blessing,  in  the  course 
of  a  few  years,  a  number  of  native  churches  be  thus 
established,  from  them  the  Word  of  God  may  sound  out 
even  to  the  extremities  of  India,  and  numbers  of  preachers 
being  raised  up  and  sent  forth  may  form  a  body  of  native 
missionaries,  inured  to  the  climate,  acquainted  with  the 
customs,  languages,  modes  of  speech  and  reasoning  of  the 
people,  able  to  become  perfectly  familiar  with  them,  to 
enter  their  houses,  to  live  on  their  food,  to  sleep  with 
them,  or  under  a  tree,  and  who  may  travel  from  one 
end  of  the  country  to  another,  almost  without  any  ex- 
pense." The  document  then  refers,  in  strong  language, 
to  the  duty  of  promoting  translations  of  the  Sacred 
Scriptures  into  the  languages  of  Hindoostan,  and  of 
distributing  religious  tracts  as  extensively  as  possible, 
as  well  as  of  establishing  native  free  schools;  and  it 
closes  with  the  following  disinterested  and  animating 
exhortation,  written  in  Mr.  Ward's  own  fervid  style,  — the 
paper  was  drawn  up  by  him.  "  Finally,  let  us  give  our- 
selves up  unreservedly  to  this  glorious  cause.  Let  us 
never  think  that  our  time,  our  gifts,  our  strength,  our 

Q3 


Digitized  by 


Google 


230  HISTORY  OF  THE  SEEAMPOKE   MISSION.       [Chap.  V. 

families,  or  even  the  clothes  we  wear,  are  our  own.  Let  us 
sanctify  them  all  to  God  and  His  cause.  Oh,  that  He  may 
sanctify  us  for  this  work !  Let  us  for  ever  shut  out  the. 
idea  of  laying  up  a  cowrie  for  ourselves  or  our  children. 
If  we  give  up  the  resolution  which  was  formed  on  the 
subject  of  private  trade,  when  we  first  united  at  Serampore, 
the  Mission  is  from  that  hour  a  lost  cause.  A  worldly 
spirit,  quarrels,  and  every  evil  work  will  succeed  the 
moment  it  is  admitted  that  each  brother  may  do  some- 
thing on  his  own  account." 

To  turn  now  to  the  progress  of  the  Translations.  The 
proposal  made  by  the  Serampore  missionaries  to  the  So- 
progrewofthe  ciety  in  England,  in  April,  1804,  to  translate 
traction..  ftn(j  p^jjgjj  the  Bible,  or  portions  of  it,  in  seven 
of  the  chief  languages  of  India,  if  they  could  obtain  aid  to 
the  extent  of  1000/.  a  year,  exactly  coincided  with  Mr. 
Fuller's  broad  views,  and  he  determined  to  take  on  him- 
self the  labour  of  introducing  it  to  the  public,  and  raising 
funds.  With  this  view,  he  proceeded  on  a  tour  through 
the  northern  counties  of  England,  and  into  Scotland,  tra- 
velled thirteen  hundred  miles,  and  preached  fifty  sermons. 
The  "  catholicity  "  of  the  plan  enabled  him  to  appeal  to 
the  sympathies  of  all  denominations, — the  Episcopalian  and 
the  Presbyterian,  the  Methodist  and  the  Independent,  as 
well  as  the  Baptist.  He  noted  in  a  journal,  which  he 
sent  to  his  friends  at  Serampore,  the  chief  incidents  of  the 
tour,  and  his  various  conversations  and  addresses  on  this 
novel  and  interesting  topic,  and  it  served  to  increase  in 
no  small  degree  the  admiration  which  they  had  always  felt 
for  his  talents  and  energy.  He  succeeded  in  raising  the 
sum  of  1800/.,  which  was  sent  to  India  by  way  of  America, 
where  an  addition  of  more  than  700/.  was  made  to  the 
fund.  Mr.  Fuller's  labours  on  this  occasion  laid  the 
foundation  of  a  permanent  interest  in  Oriental  translations, 
and  enabled  him,  in  the  subsequent  stages  of  the  under- 
taking, to  appeal  with  confidence  to  the  liberality  of  those 
who  had  thus  given  him  the  firstfruits  of  their  sympathy. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1805.]  BISTORT  OF  THE   SERAMPORE   MISSION.  231 

Unknown  to  Mr.  Fuller,  the  Bible  Society,  then  recently 
formed,  had  likewise  directed  its  attention  to  the  transla- 
tion and  distribution  of  the  Sacred  Volume  in  the  lan- 
guages of  the  East.  Before  this  noble  institution  had  been 
three  months  in  existence  a  communication  was  opened 
with  Mr.  Udny  in  Calcutta,  in  which  he  was  requested 
to  unite  with  Mr.  Brown  and  Mr.  Buchanan  and  with  the 
three  Serampore  missionaries  in  forming  a  committee  of 
correspondence,  relative  to  the  best  means  of  diffusing 
Christian  truth  in  the  Eastern  languages.  The  communi- . 
cation  was  dated  in  July,  1804,  and  was  sent  immediately 
on  its  arrival  to  Mr.  Buchanan,  to  be  made  known  to 
Mr.  Carey  and  his  associates.  Mr.  Buchanan  was  a 
man  of  liberal  feelings,  and  anxious  to  promote  the  cause 
of  religion.  At  this  time,  moreover,  there  was  less  of  a 
sectarian  spirit  among  men  of  evangelical  sentiments  in 
the  Church  of  England  in  Calcutta  and  its  vicinity,  than 
had  perhaps  ever  been  exhibited  since  the  passing  of 
the  Act  of  Uniformity.  The  Serampore  missionaries 
constantly  attended  the  ministry  of  the  Episcopal  Church 
when  in  Calcutta  with  great  delight  and  advantage,  and 
the  evangelical  clergymen  and  their  families  worshipped 
with  the  missionaries  in  their  own  chapel  at  Serampore. 
In  a  letter  written  to  a  friend  in  England  by  Mr.  Buchanan, 
he  remarked,  "  We  have  some  of  all  sects  in  our  congrega- 
tion, but  a  name  or  a  sect  is  never  mentioned  in  the  pulpit." 
Yet,  when  the  idea  of  being  officially  associated  with  the 
Serampore  missionaries,  though  for  the  promotion  of  a  great 
and  catholic  object,  was  presented  to  his  mind,  he  appeared 
to  shrink  from  the  sacrifice  of  feeling  or  of  dignity  which  it 
might  involve.  He  retained  the  letter  of  the  Bible  Society 
for  many  months  without  communicating  its  contents  to 
them,  and  they  heard  of  its  existence  only  by  an  incidental 
allusion  to  it  by  Mr.  Udny,  who  thought  they  were  fully 
cognisant  of  it.  Mr.  Carey  immediately  called  on  Mr. 
Buchanan,  and  urged  the  immediate  formation  of  the 
committee,  but  he  only  expressed  his  astonishment  at  the 

*4    ' 


Digitized  by 


Google 


232  HISTORY   OF  THE   SERAMFORE  MISSION.       [Chap.  V. 

liberality  and  condescension  of  the  Bible  Society  in  thus  in- 
viting Dissenters  to  unite  in  a  committee  which  would  have 
to  correspond  with  bishops,  and  added  that  "  nothing  could 
be  done  at  present."  Yet  the  Bible  Society  itself  grew 
out  of  the  suggestions  of  Mr.  Hughes,  a  Baptist,  and  was 
originally  established  by  Dissenters,  though  afterwards 
taken  up  by  some  Churchmen,  and  virulently  opposed 
by  others.  Mr.  Carey  and  Mr.  Marshman  then  intro- 
duced the  subject  to  Mr.  Brown,  and  found  that  his  mind 
was  likewise  filled  with  admiration  at  the  liberality  of 
the  bishops  and  other  members  of  the  Church  of  England 
in  the  Bible  Society,  in  thus  nominating  three  Dissenters 
to  act  with  them,  and  he  augured  well  of  the  Society  on 
this  ground,  but  he  stated  in  like  manner,  that  no  step 
could  be  taken  at  that  time  towards  the  formation  of  the 
committee. 

But  this  did  not  satisfy  the  missionaries.  They  had  no 
ambition  to  correspond  with  dignitaries  of  the  Church  of 
Twitton  England,  but  they  could  ill  brook  that  the  pub- 
MOT,oir*  lication  of  the  Scriptures  in  the  languages  of 
India  should  be  postponed  till  Mr.  Brown  and  Mr.  Bucha- 
nan had  recovered  from  their  surprise  at  the  liberality  of 
the  bishops.  Mr.  Carey,  therefore,  incessantly  urged  on 
his  colleagues  the  necessity  of  making  some  immediate 
and  vigorous  effort  towards  the  accomplishment  of  the 
work, — they  had  not  then  heard  of  Mr.  Fuller's  success  in 
England.  Mr.  Carey  was  anxious  that  the  hands  of  the 
Bible  Society  should  be  strengthened  by  local  co-operation, 
and  that,  as  the  formation  of  the  Corresponding  Committee 
appeared  now  to  be  indefinitely  postponed,  an  attempt 
should  be  made  at  once  to  raise  funds  for  this  object  in 
India.  Mr.  Marshman  accordingly  sat  down  to  the  com- 
pilation of  an  elaborate  "  Memoir  on  the  Translation  of  the 
Holy  Scriptures  into  the  languages  of  the  East,"  on  which 
an  appeal  for  public  subscriptions  was  to  be  founded.  The 
memoir  opened  with  the  remark  "  that  after  Europeans 
had  been  enriched  with  the  gold,  the  gems,  and  the  pre- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1805.]  HISTORY  OF   THE  SEBAMPOBE  MISSION.  233 

cious  things  of  the  Eastern  world,  gratitude,  reason,  and 
religion  required  that  a  small  portion  of  the  wealth  thus 
acquired  should  be  appropriated  to  the  purpose  of  repay- 
ing the  debt,  and  imparting  the  Word  of  Life  to  their 
fellow-subjects  in  India."  It  proceeded  to  state  that  the 
languages  current  in  India,  besides  the  Sanscrit,  were  the 
Persian,  the  Hindostanee,  the  Bengalee,  the  Mahratta,  the 
Ooriya,  and  the  Telinga,  and  that  their  mutual  affinity, 
and  their  derivation  from  a  common  parent,  rendered  the 
the  translation  of  the  Bible  into  them,  with  the  aid  of 
learned  pundits  who  might  be  easily  procured,  compara- 
tively easy.  He  then  went  into  a  minute  calculation  of 
the  expense  of  the  undertaking,  and  assumed  that  the 
publication  of  the  New  Testament  in  the  seven  languages 
would  require  about  36,700  rupees,  and  he  suggested  that 
as  this  work  would  be  spread  over  a  period  of  nine  years, 
it  was  desirable,  if  possible,  to  raise  a  sum  of  60,000  rupees, 
which  at  the  current  interest  of  the  day  would  yield  54,000 
rupees  during  that  time,  and  leave  the  capital  untouched 
for  future  and  improved  editions.  As  the  memoir  was 
intended  to  assist  the  labours  of  the  Serampore  Mission- 
aries in  particular,  as  well  as  to  introduce  the  subject  of 
translations  generally  to  the  public,  a  full  account  was 
given  of  the  progress  which  had  been  made  in  the  work 
at  Serampore,  in  the  Hindostanee,  Persian,  Mahratta,  and 
Ooriya  versions.  The  memoir  concluded  by  referring  to 
the  various  sources  of  encouragement  which  were  pre- 
sented for  the  prosecution  of  the  work,  and  wound  up 
with  an  earnest  appeal  to  the  Christian  sympathies  of  the 
public.  But  this  appeal,  which  would  have  been  fully 
appreciated,  and  doubtless  nobly  responded  to  by  Chris- 
tians in  England,  would  have  been  lost  upon  a  community 
in  which  half  the  public  officers,  civil  and  military,  were 
"  immured  in  loathsome  seraglios/'  and  the  few  merchants 
and  lawyers  who  were  making  fortunes  in  Calcutta,  had 
no  other  idea  than  that  of  retiring  with  them,  at  the 
earliest  period,  to  their  native  land.     The  memoir  was 


Digitized  by 


Google 


234  HISTORY  OF  THE   SEHAMPORE  MISSION.       [Chap.  V. 

sent  to  Mr.  Brown,  who  expressed  the  strongest  approba- 
tion of  it,  but  advised  the  omission  of  the  introduction 
and  the  final  appeal,  as  being  too  strange  and  too  strong 
for  an  infidel  public. 

When  the  memoir  had  thus  been  revised  and  pruned, 
Mr.  Marshman,  at  the  advice  of  Mr.  Brown,  called  on  Mr. 
Remodelling  or  Buchanan  to  solicit  his  co-operation.  At  this 
the  memoir.  interview,  Mr.  Buchanan  proposed  that  the 
Chinese  language  should  be  added  to  the  list,  and  that 
Mr.  Marshman  himself  should  forthwith  enter  on  the  study 
of  that  language  under  the  tuition  of  a  Mr.  Lassar,  to 
whom  allusion  will  presently  be  made.  Mr.  Marshman 
deemed  this  "  a  call  of  Providence  which  ought  not  to  be 
neglected,"  whatever  labour  it  might  involve,  and  he  con- 
sented to  undertake  the  task.  Mr.  Buchanan  requested 
that  the  paper  should  be  left  with  him,  but  soon  after 
threw  it  aside  altogether  and  worked  up  the  material  into 
another  memoir,  "  better  calculated,"  as  he  said,  "  for  the 
meridian  of  India."  Mr.  Marshman  could  not  repress 
some  feeling  of  annoyance  at  this  unceremonious  superses- 
sion of  his  labours,  but  his  own  object,  and  that  of  his 
colleagues,  was  the  prosecution  of  a  great  public  object, 
not  the  gratification  of  their  own  feelings,  and  they  there- 
fore adopted  the  new  memoir.  Mr.  Buchanan,  who  thought 
nothing  could  succeed  without  state  patronage,  had  in- 
tended to  usher  it  into  notice  under  the  auspices  of  the 
College  of  Fort  William,  and  the  sanction  of  Government. 
But  Sir  George  Barlow,  although  i(  personally  disposed  to 
favour  the  undertaking,  declined  to  authorise  a  measure 
which  might  appear  to  identify  the  Government  too  closely 
with  an  extensive  plan  for  promoting  Christian  knowledge 
among  our  native  subjects."  All  allusion  to  Government 
was,  therefore,  omitted  ;  but  Mr.  Buchanan  was  deter- 
mined to  associate  the  plan  as  closely  as  possible  with  the 
College  of  Fort  William  — for  reasons  which  will  hereafter 
appear; — and  the  missionaries  were  therefore  made  to  say, 
at  the  close  of  the  memoir,  that  their  hopes  of  success  in 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1805.]  HISTORY   OF  THE   SERAMPORE  MISSION.  235 

this  undertaking  depended  chiefly  op  its  patronage.  "  To 
that  institution,"  it  was  stated,  "  they  were  much  indebted 
for  the  progress  they  had  made.  Oriental  translations 
had  become  comparatively  easy,  in  consequence  of  their 
having  the  aid  of  those  learned  men  from  distant  pro- 
vinces in  Asia,  who  had  been  assembled  during  the  last 
six  years  in  that  great  emporium  of  Eastern  letters." 
The  proposals  were  printed  at  Serampore,  with  the  sig- 
nature of  all  the  missionaries  there,  and  surmounted  by  a 
vignette  with  a  figure  of  Britannia  presenting  the  New 
Testament  to  a  Hindoo.  This  was  added  at  the  parti- 
cular request  of  Mr.  Buchanan,  who  transmitted  copies  of 
the  paper,  far  and  wide,  to  the  archbishops  and  bishops, 
and  deans  and  universities,  in  England,  as  well  as  to  the 
Board  of  Control  and  the  Court  of  Directors.  He  sent 
them  also  under  a  college  frank  to  all  the  public  func- 
tionaries in  India,  and  to  Maharaja  Dowlut  Rao  Scindia, 
through  the  British  Resident,  with  a  copy  of  the  Mah- 
ratta  Gospels.  Even  the  Emperor  of  Russia  did  not 
escape  the  recollection  of  Mr.  Buchanan.  He  likewise 
requested  the  universities  of  Oxford  and  Cambridge  to 
permit  two  sermons  to  be  preached  on  the  translation  of 
the  Scriptures  into  the  Oriental  languages,  and  the  sum 
of  thirty  guineas  to  be  presented  to  each  preacher.  The 
offer  was  at  once  accepted. 

The  subscriptions  raised  on  these  proposals  did  not, 
however,  exceed  10,000  rs.,  exclusive  of  a  donation ^of 
5000  rs.  from  Mr.  Buchanan,  and  another  of  8,bicrlptJontto 
1000  rs.  from  Mr.  Brown.  In  April,  1806,  it  *•*—*«• 
was  agreed  that  the  missionaries  should  draw  300  rs.  a 
month  from  the  fund  to  assist  them  in  the  translations. 
Animated  by  this  encouragement,  they  pushed  on  the 
versions  of  the  New  Testament  in  the  Sanscrit,  the  Mah- 
ratta,  and  the  Ooriya,  and,  soon  after,  in  the  Hindoo- 
stanee  and  Persian  languages.  Mr.  Carey  and  his  two 
associates  were  now  fairly  embarked  in  the  work  of  trans- 
lations, for  which  they  had  been  making  preparations  for 


Digitized  by 


Google 


236  HISTOBY  OF  THE  SERAMPOBE  MISSION.      [Chap.  V. 

three  years.     Their  plans  were  now  before  the  public,  and 
they  were  committed  to  the  energetic  prosecution  of  the 
enterprise,  upon  which   they   entered  with  an   earnest- 
ness of  purpose  and  a  vigour  of  action  which  have  seldom 
been  surpassed.     This  great  undertaking  may  be  said  to 
have  originated  in  the  enthusiasm  of  Mr.  Carey,  and  to 
have  been  urged  forward  by  the  fervent  co-operation  of  Mr. 
Marshman,  and  the  warm  encouragement  of  Mr.  Brown 
and  Mr.  Buchanan.      Mr.  Ward,  though  determined  to 
second  the  efforts  of  his  brethren  to  the  utmost  of  his 
power,  and  to  work  the  press  with  redoubled  vigour,  did 
not  view  without  some  concern  this  diversion  of  their 
exertions  from  the  actual  missionary  work  before  them,  and 
he  recorded  in  a  minute  a  very  earnest  remonstrance  on 
this  subject :  "  I  recommend  to  brethren  Carey  and  Marsh- 
man  to  enter  upon  the  translations  which  we  can  distribute 
with  our  own  hands,  and  which  may  be  fitted  for  stations 
which  we  ourselves  can  occupy.     As  to  making  Bibles  for 
other  missionaries,  I  recommend  them  to  be  cautious  lest 
they  should  be  wasting  time  and  life  on  that  which  every 
vicissitude  may  frustrate.     I  tell  them  that  the  Jesuit 
missionaries  have  made  grammars,  dictionaries,  and  trans- 
lations in  abundance,  which  are  now  rotting  in  the  libra- 
ries of  Rome.     I  remind  them  that  life  is  short,  that  this 
life  may  evaporate  in  schemes  of  translations  for  China, 
Bootan,  the  Mahratta  country,  &c,  while  the  good  in  our 
hands  and  at  our  doors  is  left  undone.     I  urge  them  to 
push  things  which  are  in  our  power,  and,  under  Provi- 
dence, at  our  own  command.     By  spending  so  much  of 
our  time  on  translations  which  we  can  never  distribute, 
we  may  leave  undone  translations  nearer  home,  and  leave 
the  Mission  at  our  deaths  in  such  an  unestablished  state 
that  all  may  come  to  nothing ;  whereas,  if  it  be  once  well 
established  and  pretty  extensively  spread  in  Bengal,  this 
will  secure  all  these  translations   and  everything  else 
within  proper  time." 

Mr.  Fuller  also  regarded  these  extended  measures  with 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1805.]  HISTORY  OF  THB  SEBAMPOBE  MISSION.  237 

feelings  of  sincere,  though  perhaps  misplaced,  distrust. 
"I  must  repeat  to  you,"  he  writes  to  the  mis-  Mr.FaUer., 
sionaries,  "that  I  and  some  others  are  under  ob-erTattoM- 
strong  apprehensions  that  the  friendship  of  Mr.  Buchanan 
to  you  and  the  Mission  is  purchased  too  dear,  and  that 
you  are  in  great  danger  of  being  drawn  into  his  worldly 
political  religion.  Your  printed  proposals,  which  must  be 
of  his  moulding,  have  sunk  you  much  in  the  esteem  of 
many.  They  are  unworthy  of  your  names.  ...  If  Mr. 
Buchanan  had  not  known  and  felt  that  you  were  under 
his  influence,  he  would  not  have  ventured  to  alter  brother 
Carey's  Sanscrit  speech,  and' send  it,  interspersed  with 
flattery,  to  the  Governor-General  without  his  knowledge. 
Beware,  my  brethren,  of  the  counsel  of  Mr.  Worldly 
Wiseman.  He  will  draw  you  off  from  the  simplicity  of 
Christ,  and,  under  pretence  of  liberality,  &c,  you  will  be 
shorn  like  Samson  of  his  locks."  But  Mr.  Fuller  was 
mistaken  in  characterising  Mr.  Buchanan's  religion  as  a 
worldly  and  political  religion.  His  private  letters,  written 
at  this  time  to  his  bosom  friends,  and  which  afford  us  an 
index  of  the  genuine  feelings  of  his  heart,  breathe  a  spirit 
of  Christian  piety  and  humility  as  fervent  as  can  be  found 
in  the  correspondence  of  Mr.  Fuller's  own  ministerial 
brethren.  There  was,  undeniably,  too  much  of  diplomacy 
in  his  character,  and  many  besides  Mr.  Fuller  were  thus 
led  to  regard  his  proceedings  with  mistrust ;  but  it  was 
the  natural  temperament  of  his  mind,  not  the  absence  of 
vital  religion,  which  led  him  to  set  an  undue  value  on  the 
countenance  of  the  great  for  the  spread  of  divine  truth. 
Perhaps  he  never  sufficiently  appreciated  the  force  of  the 
scriptural  declaration,  that  the  cause  of  truth  was  to  be 
established  "not  by  might,  nor  by  power,  but  by  the 
spirit  of  the  Lord;"  and  he  was  always  labouring  to  secure 
for  the  missionary  enterprise  the  support  of  political 
authorities  and  the  patronage  of  ecclesiastical  dignitaries, 
and  he  laid  himself  out  to  obtain  this  aid,  and  with  so  much 
earnestness,  that  those  who  were  not  acquainted  with  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


238  HISTORY  OF   THE   SEBAMPOBE   MISSION.       [Chap.  V. 

real  excellences  of  his  character  charged  him  with  a  tuft- 
hunting  ambition. 

Mr.  Buchanan,  on  being  appointed  vice-provost  of  the 
college,  and  brought  into  confidential  intercourse  with 
state  of  religion  Lord  Wellesley,  determined  to  spare  no  exertion 
m  mdu.  jQ  q^^  an  ecclesiastical  establishment  for 
India  suited  to  the  majesty  of  the  empire.  At  that  time 
religion  was  at  the  lowest  ebb  throughout  the  country, 
and  the  condition  of  the  clerical  department  deplorable. 
Lord  Wellesley,  after  his  return  from  the  conquest  of 
Mysore,  was  presented  with  a  memorial  by  the  two  chap- 
lains stationed  in  Calcutta,  in  which  they  stated  that  the 
number  of  chaplains  in  the  service  was  not  greater  than 
in  the  infancy  of  the  settlement ;  that  even  in  Calcutta 
divine  service  was  performed  only  in  the  morning  at  one 
church,  and  in  the  evening  at  another,  and  that  in  the 
interior  of  the  country  there  was  no  service  at  all.  They 
stated  that  chaplains  had  formerly  ranked  as  majors,  but 
had  subsequently  been  reduced  to  the  rank  of  captains, 
yet  they  were  the  men  who  "  stood  in  the  room  of  a  dig- 
nified clergy,  to  support  the  Christian  religion  in  a  remote 
country,  far  from  the  fountains  of  ecclesiastical  authority, 
honour,  and  respect ; "  that  the  number  of  chaplains 
throughout  the  Presidency  was  then  reduced  to  five ;  that 
some  of  them  had  proved  unworthy  of  their  profession, 
the  chief  cause  of  which  was  "  that  the  salaries  were  so 
small,  and  the  situation  so  ineligible,  that  few  men  respect- 
able for  learning  or  character  would  accept  the  appoint- 
ments." At  that  time  chaplaincies  were  given  away  at 
the  India  House,  like  assistant-surgeotnships,  from  favour 
or  importunity,  and  without  any  reference  whatever  to 
the  merit  or  fitness  of  the  candidate.  The  description  given 
of  two  out  of  the  five  chaplains  by  one  of  the  most  emi- 
nent of  their  own  body  at  this  time  runs  thus :  "  Mr. 

is  avaricious  in  the  extreme,  and  pockets  more  than  half 

the  allowance  of  his  clerk.     Mr. ,  just  arrived,  came 

out  professedly  to  get  bread  for  his  children.     I  knew  one 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1805.]  HISTORY  OF  THE^  SERAMPOBB  MISSION.  239 

clergyman  on  our  establishment  who  had  neither  Bible 
nor  Prayer-book."  Nor  was  the  state  of  things  better  at 
Bombay.  Mr.  Charles  Grant,  writing  to  Sir  James 
Mackintosh  in  this  year,  said,  "  I  am  pained  and  shocked 
by  your  account  of  the  clergy,  so  called,  on  the  Bombay 
establishment.  The  fault,  I  am  sorry  to  say,  is  too  much 
in  this  House,  which  has  generally  had  something  worse 
than  indifference  on  this  important  subject,  and  by  nar- 
rowing the  numbers  and  allowances,  and  filling  up  vacan- 
cies on  the  mere  principle  of  patronage,  has  too  generally 
furnished  the  fittest  subjects  for  nourishing  a  disregard  of 
religion  among  Englishmen  in  the  East.  .  .  .  Several  of 
the  assistant-chaplaincies  voted  yet  remain  empty.  But 
it  is  better  they  should  do  so  than  be  filled  up  by  such 

execrable  characters  as  you  describe.     Mr.  ought 

absolutely  to  be  turned  out  of  the  service  in  the  same 
manner  as  a  dishonest  civilian,  or  a  cowardly  soldier ;  and 

as  Mr. is  deranged,  he  should  be  reported  home, 

that  another  may  be  appointed  in  his  place." 

Mr.  Brown  and  Mr.  Buchanan  considered  that  the  most 
effectual  cure  of  these  disorders  was  to  be  found  in  the 
appointment  of  bishops,  and  they  were  incessant 
in  urging  it  on  the  attention  of  Mr.  Grant  in  SdS^ici 
England,  and  Lord  Wellesley  in  Calcutta.  The  "  mem* 
plan  of  an  ecclesiastical  establishment  in  India,  surrounded 
with  pomp  and  dignity,  was  in  exact  accordance  with  Lord 
Wellesley's  magnificent  views,  and  he  gave  the  two  chap- 
lains every  encouragement  to  exertion.  "He  thinks," 
writes  Mr.  Buchanan,  "  that  there  will  be  no  difficulty  in 
getting  a  few  bishops  appointed  to  India,  and  means  to 
carry  the  point  when  he  goes  home;  but  he  deprecates 
mentioning  so  sacred  a  subject  to  the  Court  of  Directors." 
Immediately  after  Lord  Wellesley's  return  to  England, 
Mr.  Buchanan  revised  for  the  press  his  "  Memoir  on  the 
Expediency  of  an  Ecclesiastical  Establishment  for  British 
India,  both  as  the  means  of  Perpetuating  the  Christian 
Religion  among  our  Countrymen,  and  as  a  Foundation  for 


igitized  by 


Google 


240  HISTORY  OF   THE   SERAMPORE   MISSION.       [Chap.  V- 

the  ultimate  Civilisation  of  the  Natives."      It  was  this 
memoir  which  may  be  said  to  have  laid  the  foundation  of 
the  episcopal  establishment  in  India,  which  Parliament 
voted  eight  years  later.     It  was  very  appropriately  dedi- 
cated to  the  Archbishop  of  Canterbury,  and  stated  that 
the  strength  of  the  ecclesiastical  department  in  India  was 
not  much  greater  than  it  was  in  the  days  of  Clive ;  that 
there  were  three  chaplains  in  Calcutta,  and  six  in  the 
interior  of  the  country ;  but  that  during  the  previous  ten 
years  there  had  not  been  more  than  two  thirds  of  the 
number  present.     He  likewise  remarked  that  the  want  of 
an  ecclesiastical  establishment  had  produced  a  system,  not 
only  of  extreme  irregularity  in  the   discipline  of  the 
English  Church,  but  of  positive  offence  against  Christian 
institutions ;  and  that  for  thirty  years  marriages,  burials, 
and  even  baptisms  had  been  performed  by  the  civil  magis- 
trates and  military  officers.      A  request   was  therefore 
preferred  for  one  archbishop  and  two  bishops  for  the  conti- 
nent of  India,  and  one  bishop  for  Ceylon  and  the  islands, 
leaving  the  number  of  "  rectors  and  curates  "  to  be  regu- 
lated by  circumstances.      The  rest  of  the  memoir  was 
devoted  to  the  great  question  of  the  civilisation  and  con- 
version of  the  heathen,  the  promotion  of  which  was  one 
of  the  chief  objects  of  the  proposed  establishment.     Mr. 
Buchanan's  remarks  on  this  branch  of  the  subject  are 
peculiarly  valuable  from  the  light  they  afford  of  the  views 
then  entertained  by  men  in  power  on  the  evangelisation 
of  the  natives.     He  states  that  it  had  been  accounted  in 
England  a  virtue  not  to  remove  the  prejudices  of  the 
ignorant  natives,  nor  to  reprove  their  idolatry,  nor  to 
touch  their  bloody  superstitions,  and  that  Ihis  sentiment 
had  been  emblazoned  with  much  eloquence  and  rendered 
very  popular.     The  religion  of  the  natives  was  considered 
an  accident,  or  a  peculiarity,  like  the  colour  or  form  of  the 
body,  and  no  effort  was  therefore  to  be  made  to  change 
it.     These  views  Mr.  Buchanan  earnestly  reprobated  in 
his  memoir,  and  endeavoured  to  establish  the  policy  and 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1805.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPOBB  MISSION.  241 

the  necessity  of  enlightening  the  Hindoos,  and  giving 
them  a  knowledge  of  the  Gospel.  The  truths  which  he 
laboured  to  inculcate  with  much  zeal  fifty  years  ago  arc 
now  so  universally  admitted,  that  it  appears  incredible 
that  there  ever  could  have  existed  a  period  when  they 
were  controverted.  But  the  age  was  indifferent  to  all 
religion,  and  intensely  hostile  to  missions;  and  it  was 
partly  to  the  writings  of  Mr.  Buchanan,  but  more  espe- 
cially to  the  persevering  labours  of  the  missionaries  at 
Serampore,  that  the  more  enlightened  views  of  the  present 
time  have  become  predominant. 

Mr.  Buchanan  placed  his  chief  hope  of  success  regarding 
the  spread  of  Divine  truth  in  India  on  labours  patronised 
by  episcopal  authority.  Fourteen  years  before 
the  date  of  this  memoir  he  was  a  member  newo^KT1 
of  the  Presbyterian  Church,  in  which  he  had 
been  born  and  trained ;  but  like  some  others  who  have  been 
transplanted  late  in  life  into  the  Church  of  England,  he 
regarded  it  with  a  more  profound  and  prostrate  vene- 
ration than  others  who  have  been  nurtured  from  infancy 
in  its  bosom.  Indeed,  his  attachment  to  the  Church  some- 
times wore  the  appearance  of  idolatry.  Though  liberal 
towards  missionary  labourers  of  other  denominations,  he 
was  intensely  desirous  that  every  such  exertion  should,  if 
possible,  be  associated  with  and  controlled  by  Church 
dignitaries.  He  stated  in  the  memoir  that  any  extensive 
establishment  for  the  instruction  of  the  natives  could  not 
possibly  be  efficiently  organised  without  a  local  Church. 
uWhen  once  our  national  Church  shall  have  been  con- 
firmed in  India,  the  members  of  that  Church  will  be  the 
best  qualified  to  advise  the  State  as  to  the  means  by 
which,  from  time  to  time,  the  civilisation  of  the  natives 
can  be  promoted."  It  was  with  no  unfriendly  feeling 
towards  his  friends  at  Serampore  that  these  proposals 
were  put  forward.  In  the  memoir  he  makes  the  most 
honourable  mention  of  their  labours,  and  alludes  to  the 
senior  member  as  "the  venerable  Mr.  Carey,  for  many 

VOL.  I.  B 


Digitized  by 


Google 


242  HISTORY   OF  THE   SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  V. 

years  the  Protestant  missionary  in  the  north  of  India, 
following  the  steps  of  the  late  Mr.  Schwartz  in  the  south, 
in  classical  and  oriental  literature  his  superior,  and  not 
inferior  in  laborious  study  and  Christian  zeal."  But  their 
humble  efforts,  however  meritorious,  were  not  commen- 
surate with  his  own  grander  ideas  of  effecting  the  conver- 
sion of  the  natives  by  the  influence  and  splendour  of  an 
Established  Church.  His  views  were  more  clearly  de- 
veloped in  his  private  letter  to  the  archbishop.  "One 
observation  I  would  make  on  the  proposed  ecclesiastical 
establishment.  A  partial  or  half  measure  will  have  no 
useful  effect.  A  few  additional  chaplains  can  do  nothing 
toward  the  attainment  of  the  great  object  in  view.  An 
archbishop  is  wanted  for  India,  a  sacred  and  exalted 
character,  surrounded  by  his  bishops,  of  ample  revenue 
and  extensive  sway ;  a  venerable  personage,  whose  name 
shall  be  greater  than  that  of  the  transitory  governors  of 
the  land ;  and  whose  fame  for  piety  and  for  the  will  and 
power  to  do  -good  may  pass  through  every  region.  We 
want  something  royal,  in  a  spiritual  or  temporal  sense, 
for  the  abject  subjects  of  this  great  Eastern  empire  to  look 
up  to." 

There  has  now  been  a  bishop  at  the  Bengal  Presidency 
for  more  than  forty  years,  and  for  nearly  half  that  period 
Reflects,  on  the  a  metropolitan,  with  two  suffragan  bishops,  an 
iUbjecL  ample  revenue,  a  spacious  palace,  a  high  place 

in  the  order  of  precedence,  and  extensive  sway,  entitled  to 
public  salutes  from  the  battery  of  every  fort,  and  travelling 
in  pomp  through  the  length  and  breadth  of  his  diocese  at 
the  public  expense.  But  Mr.  Buchanan's  expectations  of 
the  result  of  such  an  establishment  have  never  been  real- 
ised. The  Episcopal  Establishment  has  exerted  little  in- 
fluence except  in  its  own  community,  and  even  in  that 
circle  chiefly  by  strengthening  "  Church  principles."  No 
change,  such  as  Mr.  Buchanan  contemplated,  has  been 
produced  by  it  in  the  great  interests  or  prospects  of  the 
country.    No  Governor-General  has  ever  deemed  it  neces- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1805.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  8ERAMFOKE  MISSION.  243 

sary,  or  even  advantageous,  to  consult  the  bishop  op  the 
ministers  of  the  episcopal  church  "as  to  the  means  by 
which  the  civilisation  of  the  natives  may  be  promoted." 
Seminaries  have  been  established  for  the  education  of 
natives  in  and  around  Calcutta,  which  include  more  than 
10,000  scholars,  yet  no  body  of  men  have  had  so  little  to 
do  with  these  plans  as  the  episcopal  clergy.  These  remarks 
are  made  with  no  invidious  feelings,  but  simply  to  show, 
from  the  experience  of  the  last  forty-five  years,  how  falla- 
cious were  the  views  entertained  of  the  influence  of  an 
episcopal  establishment  by  the  individual  with  whom  they 
originated.  Mr.  Buchanan  desired  to  introduce  into  India 
an  ecclesiastical  edifice,  after  the  model  of  that  of  Eng- 
land; he  might  as  well  have  thought  of  transplanting 
an  English  House  of  Lords  into  that  country.  The 
"  Establishment "  in  India,  as  it  is  sometimes  erroneously 
called,  is  still  military  in  its  character  and  organisation ; 
the  chaplains  are  still  army  chaplains,  with  military  rank 
and  military  pensions,  and  their  duties  are  understood  by 
the  Government  to  be  confined  to  the  servants  of  the  State. 
The  ecclesiastical  department  of  the  State,  therefore, 
includes  Episcopalians,  Roman  Catholics,  and  Presby- 
terians. In  India,  as  elsewhere,  Government  repudiates 
the  idea  of  organising,  beyond  the  confines  of  England, 
any  ecclesiastical  establishment,  with  the  same  character, 
power,  and  position,  which  exists  at  home.  Whether 
India  should  form  an  exception  to  all  the  colonial  depend- 
encies of  the  Crown,  and  in  the  youth  of  its  new  institu- 
tions witness  anything  like  an  exclusive  religious  esta- 
blishment, paid  by  and  united  with  the  State,  may  form 
matter  for  grave  discussion.  That  position  has  been 
claimed  by  some  of  the  able  prelates  who  have  filled  the  see 
of  Calcutta ;  but,  hitherto,  there  has  not  been  the  slightest 
disposition  on  the  part  of  the  Government  to  make  this 
concession. — To  return  to  Mr.  Buchanan's  memoir.  The 
publication  of  the  work  in  England  naturally  created  the 
impression  that  he  would  not  have  been  displeased  to 

B  2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


244  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORB  MISSION.       [Chap.  V. 

receive  the  appointment  to  the  first  Indian  bishopric.  Mr. 
Brown  indeed  wrote  to  Mr.  Charles  Grant,  recommending 
in  the  strongest  terms  the  elevation  of  Mr.  Buchanan  to 
episcopal  dignity  in  the  East;  and  Mr.  Grant  appears 
to  have  sounded  Mr.  Buchanan  on  the  subject,  but  he 
pronounced  the  "  Nolo  episcopari,"  with  a  stronger  emphasis 
than  usual,  and  there  is  reason  to  believe  with  more  than 
ordinary  sincerity.  "As  to  my  returning  in  order  to 
receive  episcopal  dignity,  my  soul  sinks  at  the  thought  of 
it.  I  trust  my  lines  will  rather  be  cast  in  a  curacy. 
Place  the  mitre  on  any  head.  Never  fear;  it  will  do 
good  among  the  Hindoos." 

At  the  beginning  of  1806,  Mr.  Marshman  commenced 

the  study  of  Chinese,  with  a  view    to  the  translation 

of  the  Scriptures  into  that  language.     Con- 

Mr.  Maribman  .  ,  J"  .  •  i  •    i  1 

commencwtbe    sidermff     the     circumstances    in    which     he 

study  of  Chinese.  1  i         1 

was  placed,  the  surpassing  difficulty  of  this 
unique  language,  and  the  absence  of  facilities  for  the 
acquisition  of  it,  it  will  be  readily  admitted  that  few 
men  have  undertaken  a  bolder  or  more  arduous  task. 
Mr.  Buchanan  found  one  Johannes  Lassar,  in  Calcutta,  an 
Armenian,  born  at  Macao,  who  had  applied  to  the  study  of 
the  written  Chinese  language,  with  a  view  to  commercial 
pursuits,  while  the  colloquial  tongue  was  familiar  to  him 
by  intercourse  with  the  people  from  his  infancy.  He  was 
engaged  by  Mr.  Buchanan  to  translate  the  New  Testament 
into  Chinese,  on  a  salary  of  300  rupees  a  month,  which  he 
engaged  to  pay  for  a  time  from  his  own  purse.  Mr. 
Lassar  subsequently  removed  to  Serampore,  where  Mr. 
Marshman  entered  upon  his  Chinese  studies  with  the  aid  of 
this  oral  instruction  and  Duhalde's  Dictionary.  For  fifteen 
years  he  devoted  to  this  severe  and  wearisome  employment 
every  moment  he  could  create  by  the  most  rigid  economy 
of  time,  and,  too  often,  by  encroaching  on  the  hours  of 
rest;  and  he  has  the  merit  of  having  carried  the  first 
Chinese  translation  of  the  Scriptures  through  the  press. 
The  translation  was  necessarily  imperfect;  indeed,  con- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1806.]  HISTOBY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  245 

sidering  the  great  disadvantages  under  which  it  was 
executed,  it  could  not  have  been  otherwise,  and  it  is  now 
valuable  chiefly  as  a  memorial  of  his  missionary  zeal  and 
his  literary  perseverance.  Since  China  has  been  "  opened 
to  Christian  Missions "  more  than  sixty  Protestant  mis- 
sionaries, and  two  Protestant  bishops,  the  one  English,  the 
other  American,  have  been  planted  on  the  sea  coast  of 
that  empire*  They  have  enjoyed  the  most  eminent 
facilities  for  acquiring  a  complete  knowledge  of  the  lan- 
guage, by  access  to  the  rich  treasures  of  Chinese  literature, 
and  intercourse  with  the  literati  of  a  country  where  letters 
alone  are  the  passport  to  political  distinction ;  and  their 
Biblical  labours  have  necessarily  superseded  those  of  the 
first  pioneer.  But  they  will  not  be  backward  to  acknowledge 
the  merits  of  the  man  who  preceded  them  in  their  pious 
labours,  and  who,  while  encumbered  with  numerous  engage- 
ments and  anxieties,  devoted  his  time  and  energies  to  the 
prosecution  of  an  object  of  which  the  only  reward  was  the 
consciousness  of  having  performed  what  was  considered  a 
a  duty.  At  this  distance  of  time,  however,  and  on  an 
impartial  review  of  the  circumstances  and  wants  of  the 
Serampore  Mission,  the  appropriation  of  Mr.  Marshman's 
strength  to  a  distant  object  of  doubtful  expediency  cannot 
be  regarded  without  some  feeling  of  regret. 

In  May,  of  the  year  under  review,  the  Rev.  Henry 
Martyn  arrived  in  Calcutta  as  a  military  chaplain  on  the 
Bengal  establishment.  He  was  selected  for  the  The  Ren  Henry 
appointment  by  Mr.  Charles  Grant.  His  deep  Martyn' 
personal  piety,  and  his  zealous  exertions  in  the  cause  of 
Christian  benevolence,  during  the  five  years  in  which  he 
resided  in  the  country,  have  rendered  his  name  familiar  to 
Christians  on  both  sides  the  Atlantic,  and  at  the  end  of 
forty-five  years  his  memory  is  still  embalmed  in  the  affec- 
tions of  the  Christian  public.  Immediately  after  his 
arrival  he  found  his  way  to  the  congenial  associations  of 
Serampore,  where  he  took  up  his  residence  with  Mr. 
Brown,  and  maintained  a  constant  intercourse  with  the 

a  3 


Digitized  by 


Google 


246  HISTORY  OF  THB  SBRAMPORE  MISSION.       [Chap.  V. 

Serampore  missionaries.  In  alluding  to  this  subject,  Mr. 
Carey  observes  in  one  of  his  letters :  "  A  young  clergy- 
man, Mr.  Martyn,  is  lately  arrived,  who  is  possessed  of  a 
truly  missionary  spirit.  He  lives  at  present  with  Mr. 
Brown,  and  as  the  image  or  shadow  of  bigotry  is  not 
known  among  us  here,  we  take  sweet  counsel  together,  and 
go  to  the  house  of  God  as  friends."  A  strong  feeling  of 
sympathy  drew  him  into  a  close  intimacy  with  Mr. 
Marshman,  and  they  might  be  often  seen  walking  arm-in- 
arm, for  hours  together,  on  the  banks  of  the  river  between 
Aldeen  House  and  the  Mission  House.  After  Mr.  Martyn 
had  joined  the  military  station  of  Dinapore,  to  which  he 
was  subsequently  appointed,  he  continued  to  maintain  a 
correspondence  with  his  friend  at  Serampore,  whom  he 
always  addressed  as  his  "  dear  brother."  At  the  southern 
extremity  of  Mr.  Brown's  extensive  grounds  there  stood  a 
large  and  massy  temple,  erected  more  than  a  century 
before  for  a  celebrated  image  of  Radha-bullub,  one  of  the 
most  popular  of  the  Hindoo  gods,  but  the  encroachment  of 
the  river  had  constrained  the  proprietors  of  the  idol  to  re- 
move it  to  a  safer  locality,  where  a  more  spacious  temple 
was  erected  as  an  act  of  merit,  by  a  native  in  Calcutta, 
whose  family  had  risen  to  opulence  in  the  Company's 
service.  The  Hindoos  are  not  in  the  habit  of  consecrating 
their  religious  edifices.  The  priests  pronounce  certain 
holy  texts  over  the  image  when  it  is  received  from  the 
sculptor,  inviting  the  deity  to  take  up  his  residence  in  it, 
after  which  it  becomes  sacred,  and  the  building  in  which 
it  is  placed  is  consecrated  by  its  presence.  If  the  image 
should  be  removed,  the  building  loses  its  sanctity,  and  may 
be  used  for  ordinary  purposes  without  the  guilt  of  desecra- 
tion. This  abandoned  temple  of  the  god  was  included  in 
Mr.  Brown's  purchase  of  the  ground  at  Aldeen,  and  he 
fitted  it  up  as  a  Christian  sanctuary,  and  on  Sunday,  the 
26th  January,  consecrated  it  by  a  prayer-meeting  to  the 
service  of  the  living  and  true  God,  whose  praises  now 
resounded  through  the  arches  which  had  so  long  echoed 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1806.]  HISTORY  OF  THB  SBRAMPORE  MISSION.  247 

the  paeans  of  the  idol.  In  the  present  day,  when  the 
points  of  sectarian  distinction  in  India  are  no  longer 
softened  down  by  Christian  charity,  and  the  Churchman 
and  Dissenter  seldom  meet  without  feelings  of  exclusive- 
ness  on  the  one  part  and  repugnance  on  the  other,  it  is  de- 
lightful to  look  back  on  a  period  in  the  religious  history  of 
India,  before  the  establishment  of  a  bishopric,  when  they 
met  each  other  with  affectionate  cordiality  on  the  broad 
ground  of  Christian  principles.  In  that  Pagoda,  which  is 
yet  the  first  object  which  meets  the  eye  in  sailing  up  from 
Calcutta  towards  Serampore,  every  denominational  feeling 
was  forgotten,  and  Carey,  Marshman,  and  Ward,  joined  in 
the  same  chorus  of  praise  with  Brown,  Martyn,  and  Corrie. 
The  anxiety  of  Mr.  Carey  and  his  associates  to  distribute 
their  missionary  strength  over  the  country,  and  to  form 
subordinate  stations  in  the  interior,  became 

i*i  Tk  i       i     /•   i        i  Obstacle  to  the 

daily  more  earnest.  But  it  was  doubtful  wne-  j£g£i°nofout- 
ther  such  a  scheme  was  practicable  after  the  de- 
parture of  Lord  Wellesley  and  the  development  of  a  feeling 
of  hostility  to  missions.  Not  a  few  indications  of  the  exist- 
ence of  this  feeling  were  now  presented.  On  the  9th  of  Sept- 
ember, of  the  preceding  year,  Mr.  Moore  and  Mr.  William 
Carey,  junior,  proceeded  on  a  missionary  tour,  for  the  first 
time,  through  the  districts  lying  to  the  east  of  Bengal,  as 
far  as  Dacca.  In  the  course  of  their  journey  they  stopped 
at  many  villages  conversing  with  the  natives  and  dis- 
tributing pamphlets.  For  the  first  seventy  miles  they 
found  that  the  people  had  already  seen  the  tracts,  or  heard 
of  the  "  new  way,"  but  beyond  that  distance  their  message 
was  novel  and  strange,  though  it  was  received  with  evident 
interest.  On  reaching  Dacca,  they  began  to  preach  and 
circulate  tracts.  The  people  thronged  to  their  boats  by 
hundreds,  and  they  were  obliged  to  push  off  from  the 
shore,  but  the  crowd  pressed  through  the  water,  and  in 
the  course  of  an  hour  and  a  half,  more  than  4000  tracts 
had  been  given  away.  The  next  morning  they  went  into 
the  heart  of  the  city  and  commenced  their  labours,  but 

B  4 


Digitized  by 


Google 


248  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  V. 

were  stopped  by  an  order  from  the  magistrate,  who  sent 
for  them  and  demanded  their  passports,  and  finding  that 
they  had  none  to  show,  inquired  whether  they  were  aware 
of  the  consequence  of  a  European's  travelling  without 
one.  The  magistrate  was  now  joined  by  the  collector,  and 
they  united  in  affirming  that  the  tracts  had  created  great 
uneasiness  in  the  minds  of  the  people ;  the  missionaries 
were  therefore  commanded  to  desist  from  the  work  and 
leave  the  city,  an  order  which  they  were  constrained  to 
respect,  and  they  returned  forthwith  to  Serampore.  Two 
months  after,  Mr.  Ward  went  to  Jessore  to  procure  land  for 
the  formation  of  a  missionary  station.  He  was  treated 
with  much  courtesy  by  the  judge,  who  accommodated  him 
with  the  use  of  one  of  the  side-rooms  of  the  Sessions 
House ;  but  he  manifested  no  interest  in  the  missionary 
cause,  and  thought  the  Hindoo  religion  very  innocent,  and 
Mahomedanism  so  much  like  Christianity,  that  there  was 
little  to  choose  between  them.  Mr.  Ward  was  advised 
that  the  missionaries  should  in  the  first  instance  apply  to 
Government  for  leave  to  settle  at  the  station,  but  he  re- 
plied that  such  an  application  was  more  likely  to  procure 
a  special  refusal  than  a  special  license.  The  other  Euro- 
pean officers  of  the  station  were  unwilling  that  missionary 
labours  should  be  brought  so  near  them,  lest  the  public 
tranquillity  and  their  own  ease  should  be  disturbed. 
Mr.  Ward  was  enabled  at  length  to  fix  on  a  spot  which 
was  sufficiently  near  the  Courts  to  afford  the  missionary 
the  protection  of  the  public  official  authorities,  but  not  too 
close  to  their  residence  to  offend  their  sensitiveness.  But 
when  he  was  upon  the  point  of  concluding  the  bargain,  he 
was  informed  that  the  agreement  to  be  valid  must  be 
registered  at  the  collectorate,  and  the  collector  refused  to 
register  it  till  permission  had  been  obtained  from  Govern- 
ment for  a  missionary  to  reside  in  the  district.  Mr.  Ward 
was  therefore  obliged  to  return  to  Serampore  without 
having  accomplished  his  object. 

Mr.  Ward  found,  on  his  return,  that  his  brethren  had 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1606.]  HISTOBY  OF  THE  SERAMPOBE  MISSION.  249 

been  earnestly  discussing  the  plan  of  forming  out-stations, 
for  the  organisation  of  which  Mr.  Marshman  had  just 
drawn  up  a  series  of  rules, — and  that  they  were  deter- 
mined no  longer  to  postpone  their  request  to  Government  for 
a  general  license  to  itinerate  in  the  country  and  to  form 
stations,  and  if  that  was  refused,  for  a  license  renewable 
from  year  to  year.  After  the  obstacles  which  had  been  met 
with  at  Jessore  and  Dacca,  they  could  not  fail  to  perceive 
how  extremely  difficult  it  would  be  to  establish  a  mission 
in  the  interior,  without  such  sanction.  The  Governor- 
General,  Sir  George  Barlow,  had  proceeded  to  the  north- 
west provinces  immediately  on  succeeding  to  the  office, 
leaving  the  administration  in  Calcutta  in  the  hands  of 
Mr.  Carey's  old  friend,  Mr.  Udny.  Mr.  Carey  had,  in  the 
previous  year,  placed  in  the  hands  of  Mr.  Udny,  a  state- 
ment of  their  wishes  on  this  subject,  from  which  the  fol- 
lowing are  extracts :  — 

"Our  ultimate  plan  is  to  settle  missionary  stations  through- 
out Bengal  and  Orissa,  and  in  several  parts  of  Hindoostan  Proper. 
These  stations  to  be  at  the  distance  of  100  or  150  miles  from  each 
other,  and  to  be  managed  by  a  European  missionary.  Surrounding 
each  of  these  as  a  centre,  we  wish  to  settle  seven  or  eight  native 
preachers,  or  catechists,  at  proper  distances  from  each  other,  who 
will  be  under  the  management  and  control  of  the  European 
minister.  The  places  at  which  we  desire  to  settle  missionaries 
are  at  or  near  to  Cawnpore,  Benares,  Dinagepore,  Goalpara, 
Chittagong,  Jessore,  Cutwa,  Dacca,  and  Juggernath.  At  present 
we  are  only  able  to  occupy  three  of  the  above  stations,  viz. : 
Dinagepore,  Cutwa,  and  Jessore.  To  each  of  these  places  we 
wish  to  send  a  person  immediately.  For  the  support  of  these 
stations,  it  is  desirable  to  connect  with  them  some  small  line  of 
business  suited  to  the  place.  A  school  would  be  preferred  in  the 
vicinity  of  a  military  station;  a  small  manufactory  of  indigo, 
anotta,  or  a  little  trade  in  cloth,  would  be  desirable  in  other 
situations.  If,  however,  this  should  be  thought  improper,  we  will 
endeavour  to  support  them  from  another  fund. 

"  We  wish  for  no  privileges  or  exemptions,  but  merely  for  leave 
to  settle,  preach  the  Gospel,  and  distribute  Bibles,  or  other 
religious  tracts,  among  the  natives,  without  molestation  or  pro- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


250  mSTOBY  OF  THE  SBRAMPORB  MISSION.       [Chap.  V. 

hibition  from  the  magistrate  of  the  district;  and  for  a  general 
license  to  itinerate  for  this  purpose  in  any  part  of  the  British 
dominions  in  India.  The  latter  of  these  privileges  is  peculiarly 
desirable,  if  it  should  be  thought  improper  to  grant  the  first 
It  is  our  desire  to  be  subject  to  the  laws  of  the  country  in  every 
respect ;  and  we  shall  esteem  it  a  duty  to  teach  the  people  their 
obligations  to  obey  magistrates,  and  pay  all  respects  to  the  govern* 
ment  under  which  they  live.  As  Hindoo  and  Mussulman  teachers, 
and  the  ministers  of  the  Roman  Catholic  persuasion,  have  full 
liberty*  to  settle,  and  to  propagate  their  sentiments  in  every  place, 
we  hope  that  the  same  liberty  will  be  granted  to  a  society  of 
Protestante." 

Mr.  Carey  now  pressed  the  subject  anew  on  Mr.  Udny's 
attention,  stating  that  the  sanction  of  Government  ap- 
peared more  indispensable  than  ever.  The  plan  was 
entirely  in  accordance  with  Mr.  Udny's  own  benevolent 
views,  and  he  engaged  to  send  it  without  delay  to  Sir 
George  Barlow  with  his  own  recommendation.  Sir  George, 
on  his  return  to  the  Presidency,  stated  that  he  was  per- 
sonally favourable  to  missionary  exertions,  but  that  he  had 
not  the  power  to  authorise  missionary  establishments  in 
the  country,  and  could  not  act  in  opposition  to  the  known 
sentiments  of  the  Court  of  Directors.  This  decision  Mr. 
Udny  communicated  with  great  regret  to  Mr.  Carey,  who 
stated  in  reply,  that  however  great  might  be  the  respect  of 
the  missionaries  for  the  wishes  of  Government,  "they 
must  form  stations/5  and  that,  without  the  consent  of 
Government,  if  they  were  unable  to  obtain  it,  and  that 
they  were  prepared  to  take  the  risk  of  the  consequences 
on  themselves.  They  determined,  therefore,  without 
further  hesitation,  to  send  Mr.  Felix  Carey  and  Mr.  Rowe 
to  Benares,  Mr.  Mardon  to  Juggernath,  and  Mr.  Biss  to 
Dinagepore.  They  also  fixed  upon  Patna  for  another 
station ;  but,  hearing  that  Mr.  Marty n  was  about  to  be 
placed  in  the  neighbourhood  as  chaplain,  they  relinquished 
their  intention,  and  in  their  communication  to  Mr.  Fuller 
on  the  subject,  stated  that  "  wherever  Mr.  Martyn  may  be 
placed,  he  will  save  us  the  expense  of  a  missionary." 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1806.]  HISTOBT  OP  THE.  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  251 

Mr.  Mardon,  whose  ulterior  destination  was  in  Orissa, 
was  intermediately  sent  to  Malda,  the  scene  of  Mr.  Carey's 
early  labours,  where  a  small  colony  of  warm-hearted 
Christians,  EUerton,  Creighton,  W.  Grant,  and  others,  em- 
ployed in  the  cultivation  of  indigo,  were  endeavouring  to 
sow  the  seeds  of  Christian  knowledge  by  the  establishment 
of  schools.  At  Malda,  there  was,  happily,  no  "Civil 
station,"  no  collector,  magistrate,  or  judge  to  ask  awkward 
questions.  The  only  public  functionary  was  the  Commer- 
cial Resident,  whose  sole  occupation  was  to  provide  "  the 
Europe  investment;"  and  it  was  no  business  of  his  to 
inquire  whether  any  peaceful  European  in  his  vicinity  was 
possessed  of  a  license  or  not.  Mr.  Biss  was  sent  to 
Dinagepore,  at  a  venture,  without  passport  or  license,  in 
company  with  Mr.  Moore.  "Every thing,5 '  writes  Mr. 
Ward,  "  in  this  case,  depends  on  the  Judge  of  Dinagepore ; 
if  he  should  be  mute,  everything  will  be  favourable." 
The  judge  was  the  well-known  Mr.  James  Pattle,  who 
never  was  disposed  to  be  mute  on  any  occasion  in  life. 
As  soon  as  he  heard  of  the  arrival  of  the  missionaries,  he 
sent  to  demand  whether  they  had  the  authority  of  Govern- 
ment to  proceed  into  the  interior  of  the  country  "  to  cir- 
culate religious  writings  translated  into  the  native  lan- 
guages ;"  and  finding  that  they  were  without  such  legal 
sanction,  informed  them  that  they  must  return  forthwith 
to  Serampore,  but  might  remain  at  the  station,  pending  a 
reference  to  the  Council  Chamber,  if  Mr.  Fernandez  would 
become  responsible  for  them.  They  well  knew  that  if  the 
circumstance  of  their  travelling  without  a  license  was  offi- 
cially reported,  coupled  with  a  reference  to  their  mission- 
ary vocation,  they  must,  by  the  standing  rules  of  Govern- 
ment, be  ordered  to  quit  the  district.  The  Europeans 
who  were  established  in  the  interior  without  licenses,  were 
generally  left  unmolested,  because  they  were  supposed,  in 
the  cant  phrase  of  the  day,  to  possess  the  tacit  permission 
of  Government ;  but  when  any  of  the  district  authorities 
thought  fit  to  "  name  "  them,  their  position  immediately 


Digitized  by 


Google 


252  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION*.       [Chap.  V. 

became  precarious.  Mr.  Biss  and  Mr.  Moore,  therefore, 
returned  to  Serampore,  hoping  that  interest  might  be 
made  with  Government ;  but  they  found  that  new  difficul- 
ties had  in  the  meantime  arisen  which  effectually  destroyed 
that  hope.  Krishnu-persad,  the  first  Brahmin  convert 
baptized  at  Serampore,  who  had  accompanied  the  party 
towards  Dinagepore,  died  at  Berhampore,  and  was  in- 
terred in  the  public  burial  ground.  He  was  a  youth  of  the 
most  amiable  character,  and  enjoyed  the  esteem  and  affec- 
tion of  all  who  were  acquainted  with  him.  His  walk  and 
conversation  were  always  consistent  with  his  profession, 
and  he  became  an  ornament  to  the  cause  he  had  embraced. 
He  possessed  a  clear  intellect  and  great  fluency  of  speech, 
and  was  among  the  most  acceptable  and  promising  of  the 
native  preachers.  The  report  of  his  death  created  a  feeling 
of  deep  regret  at  Serampore,  and  the  native  congregation 
was  melted  to  tears  when  Mr.  Ward,  in  the  funeral  sermon 
which  he  preached  on  the  occasion,  drew  a  picture  of  his 
exemplary  life,  and  the  loveliness  of  his  character. 

In  April,  1806,  the  Supreme  Council  passed  the  first 
law  by  which  the  celebrated  shrine  of  Juggernath  became 
identified  with  the  State.  The  province  of  Orissa  was 
conquered  from  the  Mahrattas  in  October,  1803,  and  Mr. 
Melville,  a  senior  member  of  the  Civil  Service,  was  sent  to 
administer  it  as  Commissioner.  On  his  arrival,  the  priests 
of  the  temple,  anxious  to  secure  his  favour,  assured  him 
that  the  success  of  the  British  arms  had  been  facilitated  in 
no  small  degree  by  the  favour  of  the  god.  They  affirmed 
that  the  night  before  the  army  approached  Pooree,  the 
priests  entered  the  presence  of  Juggernath,  and  inquired 
under  whose  protection  he  wished  in  future  to  dwell,  the 
Mahrattas  or  the  English,  and  the  god  signified  his  desire  to 
receive  British  protection.  This  tale,  told  with  all  gravity 
and  confidence,  was  considered  so  satisfactory  by  Mr. 
Melville,  that  he  despatched  an  express  messenger  to  Cal- 
cutta to  announce  it.  Lord  Wellesley  had  understood 
that  the  priesthood  derived  a  considerable  revenue  from 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1806.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SEBAMPOBE  MISSION.  253 

the  tax  imposed  on  pilgrims,  and  he  directed  that  the 
system  which  existed  for  the  collection  of  the  tax  or  duty 
should  for  the  present  remain  untouched  ;  but  he  strictly 
forbade  Mr.  Melville  to  contract  any  engagements  which 
might  fetter  the  British  Government  in  dealing  with  the 
temple  as  might  afterwards  appear  necessary.  But,  the 
rapacity  of  the  brahmins,  as  officially  reported,  was  so 
outrageous,  and  the  disturbances  created  by  it  were  so  de- 
trimental to  the  peace  of  the  district,  that  the  abolition  of 
the  tax  was  imperatively  required.  The  priests  then  re- 
quested the  commissioner  to  disburse  the  sums  necessary 
for  the  establishment  of  the  idol  from  the  public  funds,  as 
the  former  governments  had  done,  and  these  payments 
were  accordingly  made  from  the  public  treasury.  But  the 
brahmins  were  apprehensive  lest  these  disbursements 
should  be  discontinued  if  the  temple  itself  contributed 
nothing  towards  them,  and,  in  the  hope  of  giving  a  per- 
manent character  to  these  donations,  prevailed  on  the 
British  authorities  to  reimpose  the  tax.  Lord  Wellesley 
never  entertained  any  idea  of  associating  his  government 
with  the  superstitions  of  the  temple,  but  he  was  not  dis- 
pleased to  find  the  priests  of  their  own  accord  propose  a 
plan  by  which  the  treasury  might  be  relieved  from  a  heavy 
annual  charge. 

Before  Lord  Wellesley  quitted   the  government  in 
1805,   the  draft  of  a  regulation  was  brought  forward 
in  Council  for  vesting  the  superintendence  of  FIrgtconnectloI1 
the  temple  of  Juggernath  in  British  officers,  and  ^fiTSE* 
increasing  the  pilgrim  tax;   but  he  refused  Mth* 
his  sanction  to  a  project,  the  effect  of  which  would  have 
been  to  identify  a  Christian  Government  with  a  heathen 
shrine,  and  he  left  India  without  passing  the  law.     It  was 
brought  forward  again  the  next  year,  during  the  adminis- 
tration of  Sir  George  Barlow,  when  it  was  resisted  by  a 
vigorous  protest  on  the  part  of  Mr.  Udny.     His  colleagues 
in  Council,  however,   considered  the  idol  a  legitimate 
source  of  gain.     Mr.  Buchanan,  from  whose  narrative 


Digitized  by 


Google 


254  HISTOEY  OF  THE  SEBAMPOEE  MISSION.       [Chap.  V. 

these  facts  are  derived,  states  in  defence  of  these  gentle- 
men, with  all  of  whom  he  was  on  terms  of  intimacy,  that 
they  "  were  men  of  the  most  honourable  principles  and 
unimpeached  integrity,  not  one  of  whom  would  do  any- 
thing which  he  thought  injurious  to  the  honour  or  religion 
of  his  country."  But  "  those  who  go  to  India  in  early 
youth,  and  witness  the  Hindoo  customs  all  their  life, 
and  see  little  at  the  same  time  of  the  Christian  religion 
to  counteract  the  effect,  are  disposed  to  view  them  with 
complacency,  and  are  sometimes  in  danger  of  at  length 
considering  them  as  proper  or  necessary ;"  to  use  the  ex- 
pression of  Sir  James  Mackintosh,  they  become  com- 
pletely "  brahminised."  The  regulation  was  passed  in 
April,  1806,  and  sent  to  England,  where  it  encountered  a 
strong  opposition  in  the  Court  of  Directors,  who,  though 
inimical  to  all  missionary  efforts,  could  not  sanction  this 
outrageous  determination  on  the  part  of  their  servants 
in  India,  to  mix  up  the  Company  with  the  management 
of  a  temple,  in  which  several  hundred  courtesans  were 
entertained,  and  to  pollute  its  exchequer  by  the  proceeds  of 
a  tax  connected  with  the  most  debasing  superstition.  In 
reply  to  the  letter  from  Calcutta,  they  communicated  their 
desire  to  modify  the  Act ;  they  were  prepared  to  permit 
certain  officers  of  the  temple  to  collect  their  fees  directly 
from  the  pilgrims,  agreeably  to  former  usage,  instead  of 
receiving  the  amount  of  those  fees  from  the  public  trea- 
sury ;  to  allow  the  pundits  who  were  to  superintend  the 
affairs  of  the  temple  to  be  elected  by  particular  classes 
attached  to  it,  instead  of  being  appointed  by  the  Govern- 
ment, and  to  vest  in  the  pundits  so  elected  the  entire  con- 
trol over  the  temple  and  its  ministers  and  officers,  as  well 
as  over  the  funds  allotted  for  its  expenses,  restricting  the 
interference  of  the  officers  of  Government  to  the  preserva- 
tion of  the  peace  of  the  town  and  its  neighbourhood,  to 
the  protection  of  pilgrims  from  oppression  and  extortion, 
and  to  the  collection  of  the  tax  to  be  levied  for  this  ex- 
clusive object. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


18060  HISTORY  OF  THE  SEBAMFOBE  MISSION.  255 

The  annual  disputations  at  the  college  were  held  in 
March,  1806,  under  circumstances  which  served  to  mark 
the  feelings  of  the  time.  Lord  Wellesley,  though  Theqaettlonof 
he  does  not  appear  to  have  contemplated  any  ^undlVs"" 
effort  for  the  education  of  the  natives,  never  aBarl0W- 
failed  to  express  his  desire  to  extend  the  blessings  of  civi- 
lisation to  them.   Some  of  the  leading  members  of  Govern- 
ment, however,  believed,  doubtless  from  sincere  and  con- 
scientious motives,  that  any  attempt  to  improve  and  elevate 
the  native  mind  would  impair  the  stability  of  the  empire ; 
much  interest  was  therefore  felt  as  to  the  sentiments  the 
new  Governor-General  might  express  on  the  subject  on  this 
public  occasion.     Mr.  Buchanan,  who  had  furnished  him 
with  notes  for  his  speech,  stated  in  a  letter  to  Mr.  Charles 
Grant  that  much  depended  on  its  complexion,  and  that 
many  were  waiting  the  result  with  great  solicitude ;  that  if 
the  Governor-General  admitted  the  word  "  civilisation '/ 
into  his  speech  this  year,  we  might  expect  to  hear  the  word 
"  religion  "  in  the  next.     In  this  age  of  liberality  and  pro- 
gress, it  appears  difficult  to  credit  the  existence  of  a  period 
in  the  history  of  British  India  when  the  chief  of  the 
Government  could  not  allude  to  the  "  civilisation  "  of  the 
natives  without  creating  alarm  among  the  most  influ- 
ential of  its  servants.     He  did,  however,  introduce  this 
hazardous  expression,  but  with  characteristic  caution.   He 
said  that  "  the  numerous  works  which  had  been  published 
under  the  auspices  of  the  college  in  the  last  six  years.  .  .  . 
might  be  expected  gradually  to  diffuse  among  the  body  of 
our  Indian  subjects  a  spirit  of  civilisation,  and  an  improved 
sense  of  the  genuine  principles  of  morality  and  virtue." 
But,  before  the  next  annual  examination,  the  mutiny  of 
Vellore  broke  out,  and  spread  dismay  among  the  mem- 
bers of  Government,   and  every  idea  of  civilising  the 
natives  was  dropped. — On  the  2nd  of  June  the  missionaries 
were  presented  with  four  hundred  copies  of  the  Hindoo- 
stanee  Gospels,  which  Lord  Wellesley  had  directed  to  be 
printed  at  the  expense  of  Government,  under  the  auspices 


Digitized  by 


Google 


256  HISTORY  OP  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.       LChap.  V. 

of  the  college.     Soon  after,  the  first  sheet  of  the  Sanscrit 

New  Testament  was  printed  off  at  Serampore,  with  the 

new  fount  of  Nagree  types  which  had  been 

Translation  of  ,  .  .•  ir      -rrr       i 

jjjjji;       three  years  in  preparation.    Mr.  Ward  was  par- 
ticularly solicitous  thatthis  work  should beurged 
forward  with  all  diligence.     He  argued  that  a  faithful 
translation  of  the  Scriptures  into  this  language,  the  great 
parent  of  all  the  vernacular  languages  of  India,  would 
facilitate  other  translations,  since  the  pundits  in  every 
part    of   India    were    acquainted    with    this    classical 
tongue,  and  might  be  expected  to   make  a  good  ver- 
sion from  it  with  ease  into  their  own  languages.     The 
liberal  subscriptions  which  had  been  raised  in  Calcutta, 
encouraged  the  missionaries  to  prosecute  their  biblical 
labours  with  increased  zeal.     In  addition  to  the  Sanscrit, 
they  put  to  press  the  Mahratta,  the  Ooriya,  the  Persian, 
and   the   Hindoostanee   versions.     Hand    in    hand   with 
these    evangelical    labours,    their   literary    undertakings 
were  pushed  forward  with  undiminished  ardour.     The 
Sanscrit  Grammar,  on  which  Mr.  Carey  had  been  engaged 
for  several  years  was  completed  and  published,  with  a 
complimentary  address  to  Lord   Wellesley.      The  first 
and  of  the  Ra-  volume  of  the  translation  of  the  Ramayun  was 
n,a7un*         also  finished  at  this  time.     It  was  a  faithful 
version  of  the  most  renowned  Epic  in  India,  but  it  was 
destitute  of  the  poetic  glow  of  the  original.     A  prose 
translation  of  any  great  poem  must  necessarily  be  tame, 
but  in  the  case  of  the  Eainayun,  the  translators  were 
fettered  by  the  juxtaposition  of  the  text  printed  in  the 
same  page,  and  they  were  obliged  to  give  an  exact  and 
literal  rendering  of  the  expressions  of  the  original,  in  which 
little  of  .its  spirit  could  be  retained.     For  the  time,  it 
was  a  useful  undertaking;  it  was  the  first  publication 
from  which  the  English  public  was  enabled  to  form  any 
idea  of  the  general  character  of  Sanscrit  poetry.     But  the 
work  was  never  completed.     After  the  publication   of 
three  quarto  volumes  the  further  prosecution  of  it  waa 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1806.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  257 

abandoned,  and  for  the  first  complete  translation  of  the 
Ramayun  in  any  European  language,  the  world  has  been 
indebted  to  Gorresio,  an  Italian  scholar,  whose  edition  of 
the  original  text,  printed  at  the  Government  press  in  Paris, 
is,  perhaps,  the  most  splendid  specimen  of  Nagree  typo- 
graphy ever  presented  to  the  literary  world,  and  whose 
Italian  translation  of  the  Epic,  has  attracted  general 
admiration.  At  the  same  time,  Mr.  Ward  put  to  press  the 
first  volume  of  his  work  on  the  habits,  manners,  and  reli- 
gion of  the  Hindoos,  for  which  he  had  been  making 
researches,  and  collecting  materials  since  his  arrival  in 
India.  It  had  the  benefit  of  a  revision  by  Mr.  Martyn, 
while  he  resided  at  Aldeen. 

The  plan  which  had  been  for  some  time  under  consider- 
ation at  Serampore,  of  sending  native  itinerants  into 
various  parts  of  the  country,  was  now  reduced  to  a  dis- 
tinct form.  In  the  beginning  of  August,  a  meeting  of  all 
the  missionaries  and  converts  was  held  at  the  Mission 
House,  when  the  following  proposal  was  discussed  and 
adopted: — That  it  is  the  indispensable  duty  of  the 
native  brethren,  both  individually  and  collectively,  to  strive, 
by  all  the  means  in  their  power,  to  communicate  divine 
truth  to  their  fellow-countrymen;  that  those  who  are 
thus  employed  ought  to  be  supported,  and  that  it  is  as 
much  the  province  of  the  Church  to  provide  for  their 
maintenance  while  thus  engaged,  as  for  the  support  of  its 
own  poor.  It  was  proposed,  in  every  case,  to  send  two 
itinerants  together,  one  a  man  of  years,  steadiness,  and 
ability ;  the  other  a  younger  convert,  who  should  "  carry 
papers,  and  cook  for  both,"  and  be  gradually  initiated  into 
the  work  by  occasionally  addressing  the  heathen.  The 
missionaries  were  anxious  on  this,  and  on  all  occasions, 
that  the  itinerants  should  retain  the  simplicity  of  their 
national  character  and  habits.  A  committee  was  formed, 
at  Serampore  to  superintend  and  direct  the  labours  of  the 
itinerants,  and  the  three  senior  missionaries  were  requested 
to  preside  over  it.     They  nominated  twelve  of  the  most 

VOL.  i.  s 


Digitized  by 


Google 


258  HISTORY  OF  THE   SERAMPORE  MISSION.       [Chap.  V. 

active  and  intelligent  of  the  converts  to  the  work,  of  whom 
some  were  already  engaged  in  the  field  in  different  parts 
of  the  country. 

Of  the  sum  which  had  been  in  1805  collected  for  the 
erection  of  a  chapel  in  Calcutta,  7250 rs.  were  expended,  in 
Nan™  preaching  March  1806,  in  the  purchase  of  the  ground.  It 
in  Calcutta.  was  gjtuated  in  the  Bow  Bazar,  in  the  hotbed 
of  vice  and  immorality,  stfrrounded  by  liquor  shops  and 
brothels,  the  haunt  of  sailors  who  disgraced  their  European 
name  and  Christian  character  by  every  excess.  The  ground 
was  covered  at  the  time  with  the  abodes  of  prostitution, 
which  were  speedily  cleared  away,  and  a  neat  bungalow, 
or  thatched  house,  was  erected  in  the  centre  of  it,  which 
Mr.  Ward  opened  for  divine  service  on  the  1st  of  June.  It 
was  the  first  time  the  Gospel  had  been  preached  to  the  na- 
tives of  Calcutta  in  their  vernacular  tongue,  in  public,  since 
Job  Charnock  erected  the  British  ensign  there.  Crowds 
poured  in  at  the  gate,  and  filled  the  little  bungalow  and 
the  "  compound,"  to  listen  to  a  Christian  discourse  from 
the  lips  of  Hindoo  converts,  and  to  see  a  European  gen- 
tleman addressing  the  people.  As  the  preachers  walked 
through  the  streets,  they  were  followed  by  multitudes  who 
clapped  their  hands  and  poured  a  torrent  of  abuse  on  them. 
When  Mr.  Ward  made  his  appearance — and  he  spoke  the 
colloquial  language  with  singular  ease  and  purity — the 
people  shouted,  "  That 's  he ;  that  *s  the  Hindoo  padre ;  why 
dost  thou  destroy  the  caste  of  the  people?"  On  the  third 
Sunday  after  the  bungalow  had  been  opened  for  service, 
the  appearance  of  Rammohun,  a  converted  brahmin,  ex- 
horting his  countrymen  to  embrace  a  foreign  religion, 
created  a  greater  sensation  than  usual;  and  as  he  retired 
from  the  place,  he  was  overwhelmed  with  vituperation: 
one  man  came  up  to  him  and  exclaimed,  "0  vagabond  I 
why  didst  thou  not  come  to  my  house ;  I  would  have  given 
thee  a  handful  of  rice  rather  than  that  thou  shouldest 
have  become  a  feringee."  Amidst  all  this  excitement,  there 
was  no  tumult  and  no  disturbance.     The  interest  which 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1806.]  HISTORY  OF  THE   SERAMPOBE   MISSION.  259 


was  thus  created  in  the  native  community,  by  the  preaching 
in  the  Bow  Bazar,  filled  the  missionaries  with  delight ;  and 
at  no  period  since  the  establishment  of  the  Mission  do  they 
appear  to  have  felt  greater  animation  in  their  work.  To 
add  to  their  joy,  Captain  Wickes,  in  the  "  Criterion,"  an- 
chored off  Calcutta,  on  the  23rd  of  August,  with  two  ad- 
ditional missionaries,  the  Rev.  John  Chater  and 
William  Robinson.  The  next  day,  Sunday,  is  de-  a»  •&%. 
scribed  in  Mr. Ward's  journal  as  a  "  memorable"  °  a§oa 
day  in  Calcutta.  At  ten  in  the  forenoon,  he  addressed  a 
large  and  attentive  audience  in  the  Bow  Bazar,  for  the  ex- 
citement had  now  subsided.  At  one,  he  went  to  Chitpore 
Road,  where  some  Armenians  had  opened  a  house  for 
divine  service  in  the  Bengalee  language,  which  they  under- 
stood more  readily  than  English.  The  room,  the  "  com- 
pound," and  the  street  were  crowded.  After  preaching 
with  great  animation,  and  partaking  of  some  refreshment, 
he  again  proceeded  to  the  Bow  Bazar,  and  addressed  another 
congregation.  On  taking  leave  of  his  Armenian  and  other 
friends,  he  remarked  that  this  Sabbath  had  been  one  of  the 
happiest  days  of  his  life,  and  that  he  hoped  to  spend  many 
such  in  Calcutta.  He  little  thought  that  this  was  the  last 
Sunday  he  would  thus  be  permitted  to  enjoy  for  a  long 
time  to  come.  The  opposition  of  Government  had  already 
begun. 

The  following  day,  Monday,  Captain  Wickes  delivered  in 
a  list  of  his  passengers  at  the  Police  Office,  corresponding 
with  that  which  had  been  furnished  by  the  pilot, 
and  was  informed  that  Government  had  issued  oSE£,£5£f 
orders'  for  Mr.  Chater  and  Mr.  Robinson  not 
to  leave  Calcutta  without  permission.      The  next  day, 
Mr.  Carey  went  to  the  office  to  inquire  the  cause  of  this 
unusual  detention,  when  Mr.  Blacquiere,  the  magistrate, 
informed  him  that  he  had  a  message  to  deliver  him  from 
Sir  George  Barlow,  and  that  he  had  called  at  his  lodgings 
twice  or  thrice  during  the  previous  week,  but  could  not 
meet  with  him.     The  purport  of  the  message  was,  that  as 

s  2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


260  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap,  V. 

the  Governor-General  did  not  interfere  with  the  prejudices 
of  the  natives,  he  required  Mr.  Carey  and  his  associates  to 
abstain  likewise  from  any  interference  with  them.  Mr. 
Carey  requested  an  explanation  of  this  rather  enigmatical 
prohibition,  and  the  magistrate  explained  it,  to  signify 
that  the  missionaries  were  not  to  preach  to  the  natives,  or 
allow  their  converts  to  preach ;  they  were  not  to  distribute 
pamphlets  themselves,  or  permit  others  to  circulate  them ; 
they  were  not  to  send  forth  converted  natives  as  preachers, 
or,  indeed,  to  take  any  step,  by  conversation  or  otherwise, 
to  induce  the  natives  to  embrace  Christianity.  Mr.  Carey 
left  the  office  with  the  dry  remark,  that  it  was  not  the 
desire  of  the  missionaries  to  do  anything  disagreeable  to 
Government.  This  proceeding  filled  him  and  his  col- 
leagues with  anxiety ;  but  it  more  particularly  afFected 
Mr.  Ward,  who  had  been  exulting  in  the  new  prospects  of 
usefulness  in  Calcutta.  u  To  shut  up  the  Bow  Bazar 
preaching  station,"  he  writes,  "  is  a  cutting  measure,  and 
it  has  taken  away  all  my  desire  to  visit  Calcutta."  In 
writing  to  the  Society  on  the  first  blush  of  the  affiair,  the 
missionaries  say,  "It  is  difficult  for  us  to  ascertain  the 
present  path  of  duty.  We  are  in  much  the  same  situation 
as  the  apostles  were,  when  commanded  not  to  preach  in 
His  name.  They,  it  is  true,  replied,  4  whether  it 'be  right 
in  the  sight  of  God  to  obey  you  rather  than  God,  judge 
ye.'  Would  it  be  right  for  us  to  make  the  same  reply  in 
the  first  instance  ?  To  act  in  open  defiance  of  the  will 
of  the  Governor-General  might  occasion  a  positive  law 
against  evangelising  the  heathen,  and  at  once  break  up  the 
Mission,  which  has  been  settled  at  so  great  an  expense. 
On  the  other  hand,  if  we  yield  a  little  to  the  present 
storm,  it  may  soon  blow  over,  and  we  may  not  only 
preserve  our  present  privileges,  but  obtain  the  liberty 
which  we  have  so  long  wished  for."  With  the  advice  of 
their  best  friends,  they  resolved  to  bend  to  the  storm,  but 
on  no  account  to  give  up  their  determination  to  establish 
mission  stations  in  the  country  on  the  first  opportunity* 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1806.]  HISTORY  OF  THE   SEBAMPORE   MISSION.  261 

In  this  letter,  they  state  that  they  were  utterly  unable  to 
account  for  this  sudden  and  adverse  change  in  the  dis- 
position of  Government.  It  was  only  a  few  months 
previously  to  this  event,  that  Sir  George  Barlow  had,  on 
a  public  occasion,  spoken  with  approbation  of  the 
"  Society  of  Missionaries  at  Serampore."  But  the  storm 
had  been  gathering  since  the  departure  of  Lord  Wellesley. 
The  boldness  with  which  Mr.  Carey  had  avowed  his 
vocation  as  a  missionary,  before  the  assembled  greatness 
of  Calcutta,  had  roused  the  animosity  of  those  who  were 
averse  to  Christianity  and  its  propagation,  and  it  had  not 
been  forgotten  or  forgiven.  The  appeal  which  the 
missionaries  had  made  on  behalf  of  the  translations,  had 
excited  the  alarm  of  the  higher  members  of  Government, 
and  it  was  determined  to  seize  the  first  plausible  occasion 
which  might  be  presented,  to  put  a  stop  to  their  proceed- 
ings. That  occasion  was  now  afforded  by  the  Mutiny  at 
Vellore. 

On  the  subversion  of  the  throne  of  Tippoo  Sultan,  in 
1799,  the  various  branches  of  his  family  were  pensioned, 
and  sent  to  reside  at  Vellore.  This  fortress,  The  VeUow 
which  was  seventy  miles  from  Madras,  was,  Muttoy# 
however,  only  forty  miles  from  the  Mysore  frontier, 
and  it  would,  perhaps,  have  been  difficult  to  select 
a  more  objectionable  place  for  the  residence  of  these 
dethroned  princes.  The  Court  of  Directors  did  not 
fail  to  perceive  the  impolicy  of  the  selection,  and 
recommended  their  removal  to  Bengal;  but  the  advice 
was,  unhappily,  disregarded.  Vellore  gradually  became 
the  focus  of  intrigues  against  the  British  Government. 
More  than  three  thousand  of  the  old  subjects  of  Tippoo 
had  settled  in  the  town,  and  the  servants  and  retainers  of 
his  family  numbered  eighteen  hundred.  All  these  men, 
together  with  the  disaffected  Mahomedans  in  the  town 
and  neighbourhood,  were  systematically  engaged  in 
•attempts  to  corrupt  the  fidelity  of  the  native  soldiery,  and 
excite  a  revolt,  with  a  view  to  accomplish  the  restoration 

8   3 


Digitized  by 


Google 


262  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  V. 

of  the  dethroned  dynasty.  On  the  departure  of  Lord 
Wellesley,  whom  all  the  native  princes  regarded  with  a 
feeling  of  inexpressible  dread,  they  pushed  their  machina- 
tions with  increased  vigour  and  confidence.  It  was  at 
this  time,  that  the  Madras  commander-in-chief,  Sir  John 
Craddock,  proposed  to  the  Government  of  the  Presidency 
a  consolidation  of  the  code  of  military  regulations  for  the 
army,  which  had  long  been  needed.  The  proposition  was 
accepted,  and  the  task  intrusted  to  Major  Pearce,  the 
deputy  adjutant-general.  The  governor,  Lord  William 
Bentinck,  gave  his  consent  to  the  undertaking,  on  the 
distinct  assurance  that  it  should  be  strictly  limited  to  a 
codification  of  the  various  orders  in  force,  which  had 
already  received  the  sanction  of  the  public  authorities,  and 
positively  enjoined  that  no  additional  rule  should  be 
introduced  without  the  direct  consent  of  Government. 
Unfortunately,  a  new  order,  previously  unknown,  was 
foisted  into  the  code,  without  any  communication  with 
Lord  William  Bentinck,  who  was  ignorant  of  its  existence 
till  it  had  created  a  rebellion.  There  is  every  reason  to 
believe  that  this  act,  which  cost  five  hundred  lives,  was, 
after  all,  the  result  of  inadvertence.  The  purport  of  the 
order  was  that  the  sepoys,  when  on  parade,  should  appear 
with  their  chins  shaved,  and  the  moustache  cut  after  a 
particular  form ;  that  they  should  wear  no  distinguishing 
marks  of  caste,  and  adopt  a  turban  of  a  new  pattern.  It 
was  the  order  regarding  the  turban  which  more  particu- 
larly affected  and  disgusted  the  Mahomedans,  because  the 
turban  bore  some  resemblance  to  an  English  hat,  which 
was  considered  the  most  distinguishing  symbol  of  Euro- 
pean habits,  and  was,  consequently,  offensive  to  the 
feelings  of  the  natives,  both  Hindoos  and  Mahomedans.  It 
is  singular,  that  even  among  the  Hindoos  who  had  adopted 
the  Mahomedan  dress,  and  were  proud  to  appear  in 
the  Mahomedan  turban,  the  general  term  of  contempt  for 
an  Englishman  was,  "  that  he  wore  a  hat."  These  orders . 
created   an   uneasy  feeling  among  the  sepoys;  but  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1806.]  HISTORY   OF  THE   SEEAMPORB  MISSION.  263 

Government  was  lulled  to  security  by  the  assurance  of  the 
military  commandants,  at  various  stations,  that  the  oppo- 
sition was  merely  transient,  while,  in  fact,  the  conspiracy 
was  making  rapid  though  unobserved  progress.  The 
emissaries  of  Tippoo's  family  spared  no  exertion  to  fan  the 
flames  of  discontent  into  rebellion.  The  most  extravagant 
and  atrocious  reports  were  spread  regarding  the  designs 
of  Government  against  the  religion  of  the  sepoys.  Fana- 
tical mendicants  prowled  about,  sowing  the  seeds  of 
mutiny,  and  representing  that  the  new  turban  was  only 
the  first  movement  of  an  organised  plan  for  forcing 
Christianity  on  the  sepoys  and  the  people.  When  the 
conspiracy  had  been  fully  matured,  chiefly,  however, 
among  the  Mahomedans  in  the  corps  stationed  at  Vellore, 
the  sepoys  suddenly  rose  on  the  European  garrison,  when 
asleep  and  unarmed,  at  two  in  the  morning  of  the  10th  of 
July,  1806,  and  massacred  Colonel  Fancourt  and  thirteen 
other  officers,  and  ninety-nine  commissioned  officers  and 
privates ;  fifteen  others  subsequently  died  of  their  wounds. 
The  officers  and  men,  thus  taken  by  surprise,  were  shot 
down  with  little  resistance.  A  small  body  of  the  sur- 
vivors established  themselves  on  the  ramparts  of  the  for- 
tress, and  maintained  a  desperate  struggle  with  the 
mutineers,  till  Colonel  Gillespie,  to  whom  information  was 
instantly  conveyed  of  the  mutiny,  rode  up  in  haste  from 
Arcot  with  reinforcements,  not  drawing  in  rein  till  he  had 
reached  Vellore,  sixteen  miles  distant,  when  the  insur- 
gents were  attacked  with  fury,  and  the  revolt  was 
quenched  in  the  blood  of  three  hundred  and  fifty  of  them. 
No  event  since  the  establishment  of  the  British  empire 
in  the  East  produced  so  profound  a  sensation  and  a  feeling 
of  such  deep  alarm,  both  in  England  and  India,  c^^^^ 
as  this  massacre  of  British  officers  and  soldiers  VelloreMut,°y- 
by  the  native  sepoys.  It  created  the  painful  conviction 
that  no  dependence  could  any  longer  be  placed  on  their 
.fidelity,  and  that  any  mutiny  among  them  would  be 
marked  by  the  greatest  atrocities.     The  cause  of  this  out- 

s  4 


Digitized  by 


Google 


264  HISTOBY  OF  THE  SERAMPOBE  MISSION.       [Chap,  V. 

break  was  therefore  scrutinised  with  anxious  care ;  but, 
unhappily,  it  was  turned  into  a  party  question,  and 
became  obscured  by  the  mists  of  partisanship.  The  anti- 
missionary  party,  which  was  never  so  strong  either  in 
England  or  in  India  as  at  this  period,  affirmed  that  the 
alarm  and  the  massacre  were  to  be  traced  to  missionary 
labours,  and  that  to  preserve  the  lives  of  the  thirty 
thousand  Europeans  in  India  it  was  necessary  to  recall 
all  the  missionaries  who  were  there,  and  to  prevent  the 
resort  of  others  to  that  country.  This  feeling  was 
exhibited  in  a  war  of  pamphlets  in  England,  and  in  a 
crusade  against  the  Serampore  missionaries  in  India. 
This  view  of  the  question  was  distinctly  repudiated  by 
Mr.  Charles  Grant,  Mr.  Wilberforce,  Lord  Teignmouth, 
Lord  Wellesley,  Lord  William  Bentinck,  and  many  others 
of  equal  eminence.  Major  Scott  Waring,  the  leader  of 
the  opposition  to  Missions  in  England,  stated  that  the 
alarm  had  been  created  on  the  coast,  not  by  foreign,  but 
by  English  missionaries ;  but  there  were  no  English  mis- 
sionaries in  the  Madras  Presidency.  All  the  missionaries 
in  the  South  were  foreigners  from  the  continent  of  Europe, 
and  their  efforts  were  associated  with  the  name  of 
Schwartz,  who  had  been  held  in  the  highest  estimation 
by  Hyder  Ali  and  Tippoo  Sultan,  and  distinguished  by 
their  favour.  The  natives  of  the  Madras  Presidency  had, 
moreover,  been  accustomed  to  their  labours  for  an  entire 
century.  Neither  was  it  at  all  probable  that  the  report 
of  the  missionary  exertions  at  Serampore  during  the 
previous  six  years,  even  if  it  had  ever  reached  the  Madras 
sepoys,  would  have  been  regarded  as  a  sufficient  cause  of 
mutiny.  The  attempt  to  charge  the  calamity  at  Vellore 
on  the  cause  of  Missions  was  soon  relinquished.  It  was 
made  with  the  view  of  preventing  the  resort  of  mis- 
sionaries to  India,  and  was  therefore  finally  abandoned 
when  Parliament,  in  1813,  granted  them  permission  to 
proceed  to  it. 

There  can,  however,  be  no  doubt  that  the  mutiny  was 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1806.]        HISTORY  OF  THE   SBBAMPORE  MISSION.  265 

intimately  connected  with  the  impression  created  in  the 
minds  of  the  troops,  that  Government  had  formed  the 
design  of  forcing  them  to  become  Christians.  The  mere 
change  in  the  form  of  the  turban,  at  any  other  period  or 
under  other  circumstances,  would  not  have  been  sufficient 
to  produce  such  an  effect.  But  it  was  established  by  the 
committee  of  inquiry,  which  sat  at  Vellore,  that  the  emis- 
saries of  the*  sons  of  Tippoo  had  long  employed  the  most 
active  measures  to  corrupt  the  fidelity  of  the  sepoys,  and 
to  exasperate  them  against  their  European  masters,  and 
that  they  had  continually  represented  to  the  sepoys  that 
every  part  of  their  dress  and  their  discipline  constituted 
emblems  of  the  religion  of  the  Europeans,  and  was  intended 
to  facilitate  its  introduction.  In  these  circumstances,  the 
change  which  was  ordered  in  the  form  of  the  turban  was 
a  godsend  to  the  Mahomedan  conspirators,  and  they  did 
not  fail  to  represent  it  as  the  exponent  of  a  determined 
effort  to  destroy  the  caste  of  the  sepoys  and  force  a  foreign 
creed  upon  them.  Any  other  measure  of  the  British 
Government,  which,  by  dint  of  misrepresentation,  could 
have  been  used  to  exasperate  the  sepoys,  would  have  been 
equally  turned  to  account.  The  sepoys  had  long  been 
prepared  to  throw  off  their  allegiance  to  their  own 
Government,  and  the  turban  order  was  the  spark  which 
caused  the  explosion.  When  a  body  is  in  a  state  of 
inflammation,  the  slightest  puncture  will  fester.  That 
the  revolt  was  a  political  movement  under  a  religious 
pretence  was  established  beyond  controversy  by  the  first 
proceedings  of  the  mutineers.  An  old  flag  which  had 
belonged  to  Tippoo,  and  bore  his  insignia,  was  hoisted  on 
the  ramparts,  and  the  sepoys  at  once  announced  their 
adherence  to  the  royal  family  of  Tippoo.  Since  the  days 
of  Aurungzebe,  no  Mahomedan  sovereign  had  proscribed 
and  persecuted  the  Hindoo  creed  as  that  prince  had  done.  If 
the  movement  had  been  simply  based  on  religious  motives, 
it  is  not  conceivable  that  Hindoo  sepoys  would  have 
sought  refuge  from  the  alleged  intolerance  of  the  British 


Digitized  by 


Google 


266  HISTORY  OF  THE  SEBAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  V. 

Government  in  the  protection  of  a  Mysore  dynasty,  the 
remembrance  of  whose  religious  oppressions  was  still  fresh 
in  the  public  mind.  The  conclusion  drawn  from  the 
Vellore  mutiny  was,  that  missionary  efforts  unconnected 
with  Government,  were  never  likely  to  create  any  dis- 
turbance; that  nothing  short  of  a  conviction  that  the 
Government  intended  to  subvert  caste,  and  change  the 
religion  of  the  sepoys  by  force,  would  create  any  alarm 
or  lead  to  insubordination,  and  that  Government  must 
be  cautious  to  avoid  giving  occasion  for  any  such  an  im- 
pression ;  but  that  with  every  precaution,  it  could  not 
prevent  the  creation  of  such  a  report  by  political  incen- 
diaries out  of  circumstances  purely  accidental. 

Before  the  real  cause  of  the  mutiny  was  ascertained  by 

local  investigation,  it  was  ascribed  to  the  wanton  and 

needless  violation  of  the  religious  usages  of  the 

on  Government    natives  by  the  Madras  Government,  and  this 

by  the  mutiny.  *  ' 

opinion  appears  to  have  been  adopted  without 
inquiry  by  the  Supreme  Government  in  Bengal  and  at 
the  India  House.  Those  who  were  inimical  to  all  mis- 
sionary efforts,  to  every  innovation  and  every  improve- 
ment, had  now  a  pretext,  too  tempting  to  be  neglected,  for 
asserting  that  political  danger  must  inevitably  attend 
every  kind  of  interference  with  the  "  religious  prejudices" 
of  the  natives,  and  that  there  could  be  no  security  for 
our  Indian  dominions,  unless  we  were  prepared  to  leave 
the  country  under  the  perpetual  and  undisturbed  sway  of 
its  ancient  superstitions.  The  stream  of  European  prejudice 
against  Missions,  thus  swelled  by  the  undefined  terrors 
created  by  the  mutiny,  bore  down  all  reason  and  moderation. 
The  alarmists  obtained  an  ascendency  in  the  Supreme 
Council  at  Calcutta,  and  the  missionary  undertaking  was 
denounced  as  the  inevitable  forerunner  of  rebellion  and 
massacre.  It  was  under  the  influence  of  this  panic,  that 
Sir  George  Barlow  sent  in  haste  for  the  magistrates  of 
Calcutta,  and  desired  them  to  call  on  Mr.  Carey  and  re- 
quest that  he  and  his  colleague  would  immediately  desist 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1806 J  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  267 

from  all  further  attempts  to  convert  the  natives.  The 
Governor-General  seemed  to  consider  Calcutta  itself  unsafe, 
until  the  gates  of  the  temporary  chapel  in  the  Bow  Bazar 
were  closed.  When  the  report  of  the  mutiny  reached 
England,  the  Court  of  Directors  were  thrown  into  the 
most  violent  paroxysm  of  alarm  for  the  safety  of  the 
empire,  and,  as  usual  on  such  occasions,  the  most  violent 
counsels  became  the  most  acceptable.  Without  waiting 
for  any  communication  from  Lord  William  Bentinck,  or 
any  explanation  of  the  cause  of  the  mutiny,  or  the  circum- 
stances which  had  preceded  it,  after  the  interval  of  only  a 
single  week,  it  was  proposed  to  recall  him,  "  in  order  to 
vindicate,"  as  they  said,  "the  national  respect  for  the 
religious  usages  of  our  native  subjects,  and  to  make  a 
sacrifice  to  their  violated  rights."  Lord  William  Ben- 
tinck was  condemned  unheard,  and  deposed  from  the 
government.  On  his  return  to  England  he  addressed  the 
Court  in  a  masterly  memorial,  in  which  he  remarked,  that 
he  had  been  condemned  as  an  accomplice  in  measures 
with  which  he  had  no  further  concern  than  to  obviate  all 
their  ill  consequences;  and  he  asked  reparation  for  the 
grievous  injury  which  had  been  inflicted  on  his  character 
and  feelings.  By  this  time,  the  real  origin  of  the  mutiny 
was  fully  understood,  and  the  Court  acknowledged  that  the 
orders  which  were  the  ostensible  cause  of  that  catastrophe 
did  not,  in  reality,  infringe  the  religious  tenets  of  the 
natives,  though  the  uninformed  sepoys  had  been  induced 
to  believe  that  they  did ;  that  the  crisis  was  not  produced 
by  any  intended  or  actual  violation  of  caste,  and  that  they 
were  now  convinced  that  Lord  William  Bentinck  had  no 
share  in  originating  the  orders,  which,  for  a  time,  wore 
that  character.  They  bore  ample  testimony  to  the  up- 
rightness, disinterestedness,  zeal,  respect  for  the  "  system 
of  the  Company,"  —  a  side  blow  at  Lord  Wellesley's  in- 
subordination— and  in  many  instances,  success  with  which 
he  had  acted  in  the  government  of  Madras.  But  they 
could  not  grant  the  reparation  he  sought,  because,  "  as 


Digitized  by 


Google 


268  HISTORY  OF  THE   SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  V. 

the  misfortunes  which  happened  in  his  administration 
placed  his  fate  under  the  government  of  public  events  and 
opinions,  which  as  the  Court  could  not  control,  so  it  was  not 
in  their  power  to  alter  the  effects  of  them."  In  other 
words,  his  administration  had,  in  one  solitary  instance, 
been  unfortunate,  and  they  could  not  afford  to  be  just, — an 
instance  of  political  candour,  or  political  cowardice,  almost 
without  a  parallel. 

The  restrictions  which  were  placed  on  the  movements 
of  the  Serampore  missionaries,  in  consequence  of  the  Vellore 
panic,  fell  little  short  of  an  entire  prohibition  of 
wjkl!£Ep  t^eir  labours  beyond  the  limits  of  the  Danish 
settlement,and  they  left  no  stone  unturned  to  ob- 
tain the  removal,  or,  at  least,  the  relaxation  of  these  orders. 
Mr.Brown  interested  himself  with  such  zeal  and  affection  on 
their  behalf,  as  to  insure  "their  most  grateful  remem- 
brance." After  various  efforts  he  succeeded  in  softening 
the  opposition  of  Sir  George  Barlow,  whose  ultimatum  was 
embodied  in  the  following  items :  —  "  1.  The  missionaries 
remain  at  Serampore,  to  act  with  full  power  as  they  choose. 

2.  There  is  no  objection  to  their  circulating  the  Scriptures. 

3.  There  is  no  objection  to  their  preaching  in  their 
own  room  in  #Cossitollah  Street,  or  in  the  house  of  any 
other  person,  provided  they  do  not  preach  openly  in  the 
Bow  Bazar.  4.  Natives  may  teach  and  preach  wherever 
they  please,  provided  they  be  not  sent  forth  as  emissaries 
from  Serampore.  There  will  be  no  objection  to  their 
exercising  in  the  Bow  Bazar,  or  anywhere  else,  when  they 
can  procure  permission  from  the  Court  of  Directors,  or 
from  the  British  Government."  In  delivering  this  note, 
as  the  final  decision  of  Government,  the  magistrates 
assured  Mr.  Brown  that  they  had  never  received  any 
complaints  against  the  Serampore  missionaries,  nor  had 
they  ever  heard  that  any  representation  had  been  made  to 
Government  to  their  disadvantage  by  any  class  of  natives. 
It  now  became  evident,  that  no  hope  could  be  entertained 
of  more  favourable  terms  from  Government,  at  least  until 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1806.]  HISTORY   OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  269 

the  fever  of  alarm  had  subsided ;  and  as  the  missionaries 
could  not  employ  a  single  itinerant  beyond  the  limits  of 
Serampore,  without  contravening  these  orders,  their  ope- 
rations were  brought  to  a  dead  lock,  and  they  determined, 
through  the  medium  of  the  Society,  to  move  the  public 
authorities  in  England  for  permission  to  itinerate  through 
the  country,  and  to  establish  stations.  Mr.  Ward,  in  his 
private  letter  to  Mr.  Fuller,  says,  "If  we  could  but  obtain 
leave  to  itinerate  ourselves,  and  fix  stations  in  different  parts 
of  India,  we  should  care  for  nothing  else  in  this  world." 

The  result  of  this  reference  to  England  will  be  pre- 
sently narrated ;  and  we  turu  to  the  proceedings  against 
the  missionaries  who  had  recently  arrived  —  proceeding! 
Mr.  Chater  and  Mr.  Robinson.    After  they  had  3?55&bS: 
been  detained  four  days  in  Calcutta,  by  the 
orders  of  Government,  Mr.  Carey  called  at  the  Police-office, 
and  sent  up  to  Mr.  Blacquiere  to  inquire  whether  Govern- 
ment wished  them  to  remain  any  longer  in  the  town.     To 
this  the  magistrate  sent  the  contemptuous  reply,  that  if 
any  of  Mr.  Carey's  friends  were  in  confinement,  he  must 
apply  for  their  release  to  another  magistrate ;  on  which 
Mr.  Carey,  without  further  hesitation,  conveyed  them  and 
their  families  to  Serampore.     The  next  day,  they  were 
introduced  to  the  governor,  Colonel  Krefting,  and  received 
under  the  protection  of  the  Crown  of  Denmark.     At  the 
same  time  Mr.  Dowdeswell,  the  superintendent  of  police 
in  the  lower  provinces,  an  officer  of  great  ability  and 
influence,  but,  unhappily,  prejudiced  against  the  missionary 
enterprise,  directed  the  magistrates  of  Calcutta  to  report 
officially  to  Government,  that  two  missionaries  had  arrived 
in  the  country  without  a  licence  from  the  Court  of  Di- 
rectors.   This  report  was  laid  before  the  Council  Board,  in 
the  height  of  the  Vellore  panic,  and  immediately  after  Go- 
vernment had  silenced  the  Serampore  missionaries,  and  Sir 
George  Barlow,  as  might  have  been  expected,  issued  orders 
for  them  to  leave  the  country  without  delay.     Mr.  Carey 
called  on  his  friend  Mr.  Udny,  and  entreated  him  to  use 


Digitized  by 


Google 


270  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.       [Chap.  V. 

his  good  offices  in  Council ;  but  he  replied,  that  such  was 
the  strength  of  prejudice  and  alarm  at  the  moment,  that 
he  feared  it  would  be  impossible  to  avert  the  execution  of 
the  order.  He  said  that  scores  of  Europeans  were  in  the 
habit  of  resorting  to  Calcutta  without  any  licence,  some 
of  whom  never  reported  themselves  at  the  Police-office, 
while  others  simply  left  their  names  there ;  but  as  no 
report  was  officially  made  to  Government  on  the  subject, 
they  remained  unnoticed  and  unmolested.  The  two  mis- 
sionaries, however,  had  now  been  formally  denounced  to  the 
Supreme  Council  as  unlicensed  persons,  and  the  Council  had 
no  option  but  to  carry  into  effect  the  standing  orders  of 
the  Court,  and  insist  on  their  return.  He  suggested,  how- 
ever, that  this  calamity  might  possibly  be  averted  if  the  cap- 
tain were  to  take  his  vessel  up  to  Serampore ;  but  Colonel 
Krefting,  the  governor,  said  that  it  was  now  too  late  for  him 
to  adopt  this  course,  and  that  it  ought  to  have  been  taken  in 
the  first  instance ;  but  Captain  Wickes  replied,  that  this 
had  been  rendered  impossible  by  the  orders  he  had  offici- 
ally received  to  land  his  passengers  in  Calcutta,  when  it 
was  surmised  that  they  were  missionaries. 

On  the  11th  of  September,  Mr.  Chater  and  Mr.  Robin- 
son were  summoned  to  the  Police-office  in  Calcutta,  and 
„   u '  — .   informed  by  Mr.  Martyn,  one  of  the  magistrates, 

Further  proceed-  111  ▼      -1  •  •   1 

<M?tSKedrll2d  *"at  a8  they  had  come  to  India  without  the 
Mr'-Bowo**.  permission  of  the  Hon.  the  Court  of  Directors, 
the  Supreme  Government  had  thought  fit  to  order  them 
to  return  to  England.  Mr.  Marshman,  who  accompanied 
them,  replied  that  they  had  come  out  to  reside  at  Seram- 
pore, and  that  it  would  have  been  anomalous  to  apply  to 
the  Court  of  Directors  for  permission  to  proceed  to  a 
foreign  settlement.  The  magistrate  appeared  to  be  startled 
at  this  information,  and  advised  that  it  should  be  put  in 
writing.  The  captain  was,  at  the  same  time,  distinctly 
given  to  understand,  that  he  could  not  obtain  a  port  clear- 
ance except  on  condition  of  conveying  them  back.  In 
this  difficult  position  a  cabinet  council  was  held  at  Aldeen, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1806.]  HISTORY  OF  THE   SERAMPORE  MISSION.  271 

when  the  circumstances  were  discussed,  and  it  was  agreed 
that  Mr.  Brown,  who  possessed  great  influence  in  the 
official  circle  in  Calcutta,  should  call  on  Mr.  Martyn,  the 
magistrate,   and  ascertain  by  what  means  the  exigency 
could  be  met.  Mr.  Martyn  appeared  friendly,  and  expressed 
his  surprise  that  Government  should  single  out  two  mis- 
sionaries for  deportation  amidst  the  numerous  Europeans 
who  came  out  unlicensed  every  year;  but  he  attributed 
the  determination  to  the  report  which  had  been  made  to 
the  Council,  under  the  express  injunctions  of  Mr.  Dowdes- 
well.     Mr.  Brown  assured  Mr.  Martyr,  as  Mr.  Marshman 
had  done  before,  that  the  missionaries  were  under  the  pro- 
tection of  the  Danish  flag,  and  were  not,  therefore,  ame- 
nable to  the  British  authorities.      Mr.  Martyn  said  that 
Government  was  probably  unaware  of  this  circumstance, 
and  he  desired  that  it  might  be  officially  communicated 
to  him.     Three  letters  were  accordingly  sent  to  him  — 
one  from  Mr.  Carey  and  his  colleagues,  the  other  from 
the  two  missionaries  who  were  under  sentence  of  banish- 
ment, and  the  third  from  the  Governor  of  Serampore  — 
all  purporting  that  Mr.  Chater  and  Mr.  Robinson  had  been 
received  under  the  special  protection  of  the  King  of  Den- 
mark.    The  letters  remained  without  a  reply  for  a  month, 
and  the  missionaries  began  to  hope  that  the  storm  had 
blown  over ;  but,  in  the  middle  of  October,  Colonel  Krefting 
received  a  letter  from  the  Police-office  in  reference  to  his 
certificate  of  protection,  desiring  to  know  at  whose  sugges- 
tion the  two  missionaries  had  left  England,  and  whether 
they  had  come  out  on  the  promise  of  protection  from 
any  individual  on  the  part  of  the  King  of  Denmark  ?    To 
this  insidious  inquiry,  the  governor  replied   in  general 
terms,  that  the  King  of  Denmark  had  issued  instructions 
to  his  servants  at  Serampore,  on  the  5th  of  September, 
1801,  to  foster  the  establishment  of  the  Mission  in  the 
town,  and  had  at  the  same  time  granted  to  the  missionaries 
themselves,  and  their  future  colleagues,  the  fullest  protec- 
tion of  the  Danish  Crown ;  and  that  the  certificate  he  had 


Digitized  by 


Google 


272  HISTORY   OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.       [Chap.  V. 

given  to  the  newly-arrived  missionaries  was  "in  compliance 
with  this  high  order." 

This  communication  from  a  foreign  chief,  acting  under 
the  special  orders  of  his  own  court,  ought  to  have  been 
conclusive  with   Sir  George   Barlow,   who   appeared  so 
very  anxious  to  carry  out  the  orders  of  his  own  masters 
to  the  letter.     But  there  was  an  infatuated  resolution  to 
push  the  matter  to  extremities,  and  enforce  the  departure 
of  the  missionaries  at  all  hazards.    Colonel  Krefting's  letter 
was  treated  with  silent  contempt ;  and  on  the  1st  of  Novem- 
ber, nearly  ten  weeks  after  the  arrival  of  the  missionaries, 
they  were  informed  that  the  Government  had  thought 
fit  to  confirm  its  former  orders,  and  Captain  Wickes  was 
again  assured  that  his  vessel  would  not  be  allowed  to  clear 
outwards,  unless  he  undertook  to  re-embark  the  mission- 
aries.    The   Serampore  missionaries,   perceiving  the  in- 
veteracy manifested  by  the  Supreme  Council,  resolved  to 
surrender  their  two    brethren,   rather  than  detain  the 
"  Criterion  "  any  longer,  while,  at  the  same  time,  they 
made  one  final  effort  to  save  them  from  deportation,  by 
proposing  to  send  them  out  of  the  country,  to  the  terri- 
tory of  some  foreign  prince.     On  the  3rd  of  November, 
Captain  Wickes  again  went  to  the  Police-office  in  company 
with   Mr.   Brown,  when  the   magistrate  read  over  the 
whole  of  the  correspondence  which  had  passed  on  the 
subject,  and  concluded  by  stating  the  final  orders  he  had 
received,  that  the  missionaries  were  to  leave  India,  or  the 
vessel  would  be  detained.     The  captain  stated  that  Mrs. 
Chater  was  near  her  confinement,  and  he  had  no  surgeon 
on  board,  that  the  refusal  of  a  port   clearance  to  an 
American  vessel,  because  the  commander  would  not  en- 
gage to  take  back  two  individuals  who  were  at  the  time 
under  the  protection  of  a  foreign  flag,  and  beyond  his 
control,  would  not  fail  to  be  represented  by  his  owners 
to  the  government  at  Washington,  and  might  become  the 
subject  of  a  serious  remonstrance  with  the  cabinet  of 
England.     He  also  stated  that  the  forcible  abstraction  of 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1806.]  HISTORY   OF   THE   SERAMPORE  MISSION.  273 

the  two  missionaries  from  Serampore,  after  they  had 
received  the  special  protection  of  the  Danish  Crown,  would 
involve  an  irritating  discussion  between  the  courts  of 
London  and  Copenhagen ;  but  he  added,  that  he  and  the 
missionaries  were  anxious  to  avoid  whatever  might  tend 
to  interrupt  the  peace  and  amity  of  nations,  and  that  the 
missionaries  were  particularly  anxious  to  retain  the  good- 
will of  the  British  authorities,  which  was  so  necessary  to  the 
successful  prosecution  of  their  work.  At  the  same  time, 
Mr.  Brown  offered  to  become  personally  responsible  that 
the  missionaries  should  comply  with  whatever  might  be 
the  ultimate  decision  of  Government.  The  British  autho- 
rities evidently  perceived  that  they  incurred  a  serious 
responsibility  by  the  course  they  were  pursuing,  and  that 
a  remonstrance  from  two  foreign  courts  would  be  regarded 
by  their  honourable  masters  in  Leadenhall  Street  a  far 
more  serious  consideration  even  than  the  addition  of  two 
members  to  the  "  Society  of  Missionaries  at  Serampore." 
After  a  great  deal  of  apparent  reluctance,  therefore,  the 
captain  was  allowed  his  port  clearance,  unconditionally. 
But  to  counterbalance  this  concession,  a  letter  was  written 
on  the  spot  to  the  two  missionaries,  stating  that  they  could 
not  be  permitted  to  remainin  the  country,  and  were  required 
to  take  the  earliest  measures  for  returning  to  Europe,  and 
to  name  the  vessel  in  which  they  intended  to  embark,  for 
the  information  of  the  Governor-General.  Both  Mr. 
Brown  and  the  missionaries  considered  this  order  only  as 
betokening  a  desire  to  back  out  of  this  disreputable  pro- 
ceeding with  as  little  sacrifice  of  dignity  as  possible,  and 
the  letter  remained  without  a  reply.  This  transaction  in- 
dicated so  unfavourable  a  change  in  the  views  of  Govern- 
ment, that  the  missionaries  felt  they  could  no  longer  cal- 
culate on  its  neutrality,  more  especially  as  the  period  of 
Mr.  Udny's  service  in  council,  who  was  their  only  friend  in 
the  Government,  had  expired  on  the  6th  of  October.  They 
were  constrained,  therefore,  to  turn  their  attention  to  other 
countries,  not  under  the  British  flag,  where  they  might 

VOL.  I.  T 


Digitized  by 


Google 


274  HISTOBY  OF  THE   SEBAMPORE  MISSION.       [Chap.  V. 

hope  for  that  protection  from  barbarian  governments 
which  was  refused  them  by  the  Christian  rulers  of  India. 
Within  three  months  of  this  period,  Mr.  Chater  was  on 
his  way  to  Rangoon. 

During  these  troubles,  the  Rev.  Henry  Martyn  left 
Serampore  for  the  station  of  Dinapore,  to  which  he  had 
been  appointed  chaplain.  A  prayer-meeting  was  held  on 
the  occasion  in  the  Pagoda,  and  Mr.  Brown  and  Mr. 
Martyn  united  with  Mr.  Marshman  and  Mr.  Ward  in  sup- 
plicating the  divine  blessing  on  his  labours.  "  We  have 
given  him,"  writes  Mr.  Ward,  "  fifty  Hindoostanee  Testa- 
ments and  20,000  tracts,  to  begin  his  missionary  career." 
Soon  after,  he  notes  that  Mr.  Martyn  had  arrived  at 
Dinapore,  and  distributed  tracts  all  the  way  up ;  that  he 
was  not  ashamed  of  being  among  a  crowd,  and  longed  to 
be  useful  among  the  heathen;  but  he  adds,  "You  must 
insert  nothing  in  the  Periodical  Accounts  regarding 
the  chaplains,  on  any  account  whatever."  Towards  the 
close  of  the  year,  the  Rev.  Daniel  Corrie  and  the  Rev. 
Joseph  Parsons,  two  other  evangelical  clergymen,  who  had 
recently  arrived,  were  posted,  the  one  to  Benares,  the 
other  to  Berhampore.  On  this  occasion,  Mr.  Carey  writes, 
"  It  is  remarkable,  that  just  at  the  time  that  bonds  are  laid 
on  us,  God  should  have  taken  the  work  in  Hindoostan  into 
his  own  hands,  and  sent  out  Mr.  Martyn,  Mr.  Corrie,  and 
Mr.  Parsons,  three  evangelical  chaplains,  whose  hearts 
beat  in  unison  with  our  own.  Two  of  them  are  appointed 
to  stations  which  we  had  intended  to  occupy." 

It  has  been  stated,  that  when  Mr.  Carey  and  his  asso- 
ciates had  lost  all  hope  of  the  removal  of  the  restrictions 
Mr.Fuiier»iexer-  kid  on  them  by  the  Government  in  India,  re- 
tion.  in  Engl**.  gar(jing  the  formation  of  stations  in  the  country, 
they  resolved  to  refer  the  question  to  Mr.  Fuller,  in  the 
hope  of  obtaining  a  more  favourable  decision  from  the 
authorities  at  home.  The  result  of  this  reference  cannot 
be  more  appropriately  given  than  in  the  language  of  Mr. 
Fuller  himself.     The  extract  now  subjoined  from  his  letter, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1806.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  275 

though  long,  will  be  useful  in  conveying  a  clear  idea  of 
the  position  of  the  missionary  question  at  the  India 
House  and  India  Board,  and  of  the  prejudices  with  which 
the  Serampore  missionaries,  and  their  noble  associate  in 
England,  had  to  contend  before  the  charter  of  freedom  in 
1813. 

"  I  have  been  three  journeys  to  London,  from  the  last  of  which 
I  returned  but  last  Friday.  Obtaining  an  interview  with  Mr. 
Charles  Grant,  I  learned  that  the  minds  of  the  Directors  and  of  the 
Government  were  strongly  prejudiced  by  letters  from  individuals  in 
India ;  that  it  would,  therefore,  be  very  improper  at  present  to 
make  a  direct  application  to  either  for  permission  to  itinerate  and 
form  stations;  and  that  we  had  great  reason  to  fear  the  sending 
out  of  an  order  to  recall  you  all,  or  at  least  to  prohibit  you  from 
going  upon  British  territory.  Mr.  Grant  was  well  satisfied  that  the 
whole  arose  from  the  misstatements  of  adversaries  from  India,  and 
therefore  conceived  a  hope  that  a  fair  and  temperate  statement  of  the 
truth  would  be  the  means  of  removing  it  He  therefore  recom- 
mended me  to  draw  up  such  a  statement  Accordingly  I  shut  my- 
self up  in  London,  and  drew  it  up,  and  then  sent  it  to  Mr.  Grant 
for  his  remarks.  He  suggested  several  corrections  and  additions, 
which  I  adopted.  He  then  advised  me  to  wait  on  Lord  Teign- 
mouth,  who  is  a  member  of  the  Board  of  Control,  and  of  His 
Majesty's  Privy  Council.  I  did  so,  and  found  him  to  be  a  most 
cordial  friend,  and  willing  to  do  any  thing  in  his  power  to  serve  us, 
and  to  use  all  his  influence :  but  he  also  strongly  dissuaded  me  from 
making  any  application  to  Government  at  present,  and  advised 
that  we  should  act  merely  on  the  defensive.  He  informed  me  that 
nothing  had  been  officially  communicated  from  India  concerning 
you,  nor  any  complaints  whatever  made  by  the  India  Government 
All  that  they  knew  was  through  private  communications. 

"  The  next  day  I  attended  the  Annual  Meeting  of  the  Bible 
Society,  where  specimens  of  your  translations  were  handed  round 
among  the  members,  of  whom  several  were  noblemen  and  bishops. 
They  had  been  received  by  Mr.  Owen,  the  Secretary,  from  your 
and  our  worthy  friend,  Mr.  Brown.  I  had  also  the  pleasure  of 
>  hearing  it  announced  by  the  Chairman,  Lord  Teignmouth,  that 
another  1000£  was  voted  in  aid  of  the  Translations. 

"  Returning  to  Kettering-,  I  presently  received  a  letter  from  Mr. 
Grant,  apprising  me  that  the  17th  of  June  was  the  day  for  a  pub- 

x  2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


276  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION,       [Chap.  V. 

lie  meeting  of  the  Proprietors  of  India  Stock — that  notice  had  just 
been  given  to  Mr.  Parry,  the  Chairman  of  the  Directors,  and  who 
is  our  cordial  friend,  that  amotion  of  inquiry  would  be  made  on  that 
day  into  the  business  of  Vellore — and  that  he  and  Mr.  Grant  ex- 
pected that  this  occasion  would  be  seized  to  aim  some  side  blows  at 
the  Mission,  which  we  ought  to  be  prepared  to  meet  I  set  off  the 
same  day  again  for  London,  taking  my  statement  with  me,  intended 
to  get  it  printed  and  circulated  among  the  Directors  before  the  day 
fixed  for  the  discussion.  Going  to  Mr.  Grant,  he  suggested  several 
new  ideas,  one  of  which  was,  that  I  must  not  print  this  paper,  as 
coming  from  nobody  knew  whom,  but  must  go  down  to  the  country, 
call  a  Committee  Meeting,  let  them  approve  of  it,  and  order  it  to 
be  signed  by  the  Secretary. 

"  After  coming  from  his  house,  I  was  waited  on  by  three  of  the 
London  Missionary  Society,  who  proposed  to  act  with  us,  as  it  was 
a  common  cause.  To  this  I  did  not  object,  but  the  high  tone 
which  some  of  them  assumed — talking  of  moving  heaven  and  earth 
against  the  Directors — made  me  afraid.  My  mind  revolted  at  such 
talk ;  and  though  I  abstained  from  all  reflections  on  their  parade 
in  the  South  Sea  Mission,  yet  I  ventured  to  say  that  I  did  not 
think  that  we  should  go  about  the  business,  by  raising  a  body  of 
proprietors  to  oppose  the  Directors — that  we  could  not  do  it ;  and 
if  we  tried  and  failed,  we  should  ruin  our  own  cause.  Eighteen 
years  ago,  I  observed,  there  were  great  threats  thrown  out  by  us 
as  Dissenters,  if  they  did  not  repeal  the  Test  and  Corporation  Acts 
— and  what  was  the  issue  ?  Our  strength  when  tried  was  found  to 
be  weakness.  Nor  did  such  measures  approve  themselves  to  me  as 
a  Christian. 

"Leaving  them,  I  immediately  wrote  to  divers  of  our  brethren, 
and  called  a  Committee  Meeting  to  be  held  at  Northampton  on  the 
9th  of  June.  It  was  kept  in  fasting  and  prayer,  reading  your 
communications  at  intervals,  and,  lastly,  my  proposed  statement  for 
their  approbation.  We  sat  from  6  in  the  morning  to  1,  and  it  was 
resolved : — '  That  the  statement  drawn  up  by  Brother  Fuller  be 
considered  as  that  of  the  committee ;  and  that  he  be  requested  to 
return  to  London,  and  there  to  observe  and  act  for  the  Mission  as 
occasions  may  occur/  I  set  off  at  3  o'clock  the  same  day,  and 
reached  London  that  night  Next  morning  I  met  three  of  the 
London  Society.  They  were  very  urgent  on  me  to  act  on  the* 
offensive,  instead  of  the  defensive.  '  You  are  guided/  said  they, 
'  by  Mr.  Charles  Grant,  a  timid,  irresolute  man.      He  hopes  to  get 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1806.]  HISTORY   OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  277 

the  threatened  discussion  on  the  17th  June  put  off;  we  had  rather 
it  should  come  on.  And  if  they  would  not  bring  it  forward,  we 
could  and  would.  Eleven  proprietors  can  at  any  time  call  a 
meeting  or  court.  We  could  find  eleven  friends  among  the  pro- 
prietors who  would  call  a  court,  and  make  a  motion  that  '  as 
rumours  had  gone  forth  unfavourable  to  the  missionaries,  it  should 
be  inquired  whether  they  had  any  share  in  the  blame  of  the  Vellore 
mutiny.'  I  was  so  far  of  their  mind  as  to  wish  the  business  to  come 
to  some  issue,  but  not  to  provoke  the  discussion,  or  to  be  plaintiff, 
in  it  This  I  did  not  like.  We,  however,  resolved  to  conclude 
on  nothing  that  day;  but  as  they  had  an  appointment  to  meet 
Lord  Teignmouth,  and  I,  Mr.  Grant,  we  agreed  to  see  each  other 
afterwards. 

"  From  thence  I  went  to  Mr.  Grant  We  again  read  over  the 
statement  He  then  told  me,  he  'hoped  that  the  threatened 
discussion  on  the  17th  would  pass  over.'  I,  impressed  in  a  measure 
by  the  conversation  I  had  had  with  the  others,  answered  '  I  hope, 
it  will  not.  I  had  rather  they  would  say  all  they  have  to  say,  than 
otherwise.'  He  looked  hard  at  me :  '  You  think,'  said  he,  '  that 
I  am  timid  and  irresolute.  I  will  just  show  you  two  or  three 
letters  which  will  convince  you  of  the  prejudice  and, power  that  you 
have  to  encounter.  You  wish  the  discussion  to  come  on ;  but  you 
do  not  expect  any  other  result  than  that  you  will  be  outvoted  in 
the  Directory.  What  do  you  mean  to  do  then  ? ' — *  Appeal  to  the 
Board  of  Control,  and  perhaps  to  the  King ' — '  I  do  not  think  you 
have  any  reason. to  hope  for  the  King's  interference — and,  as  to  the 
Board  of  Control,  I  will  just  show  you  two  or  three  letters 
which  will  convince  you  of  the  prejudice  and  power  which  you  have 
to  encounter  there.'  These  letters  convinced  me  that  our  principal 
danger  arose  from  the  Board  of  Control,  who  had  actually  been 
calling  out  to  the  Directors,  '  Why  do  you  not  order  all  those  mis- 
sionaries home?' — and  also  that  the  strongest  remonstrances 
(arguments,  I  should  rather  say)  had  been  sent  in  by  Mr.  Charles 
Grant,  showing  them  that  these  men  were  not  intemperate  incen- 
diaries— nor  heady — nor  ignorant — that  no  ill  effects  had  ever  arisen 
from  their  labours — that  they  were,  several  of  them,  men  of  learn- 
ing, and  by  their  good  conduct  had  recommended  themselves  to  the 
India  Government.  I  saw  also  by  these  letters  (but  these  are  not 
subjects  for  common  talk)  that  Lord  Melville  —  late  Mr.  Henry 
Dundas — actually  rules  India  through  his  son,  who  is  the  President 
of  the  Board  of  Control,  and  that  Mr.  Grant  had  been  writing  to 

T  3 


Digitized  by 


Google 


278  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPOKE  MISSION.       [Chap.  V. 

various  persons  in  jour  behalf  who  could  with  most  effect  speak  to 
Lord  Melville.  On  seeing  all  this — which  was  a  kind  of  panorama 
view  of  the  army  of  Xerxes,  and  of  the  opposition  of  the  300 
Greeks  at  the  Straits  of  Thermopylae — I  could  not  but  thank  Mr. 
Grant  for  his  great  kindness,  and  declare  my  readiness  to  follow 
his  advice.  This  was  on  Wednesday,  June  10th.  He  then  recom- 
mended me  to  get  my  statement  printed,  but  not  distributed  till  I 
had  seen  him  again,  and  the  time  fixed  for  this  was  Tuesday 
morning,  June  1 6th,  when  he  hoped  to  know  what  would  be  done 
the  next  day  at  the  India  House,  and,  if  necessary  for  me  to  know- 
it,  would  tell  me. 

"  On  leaving  Mr.  Grant  I  went,  as  by  appointment,  to  meet  our 
three  friends  of  the  London  Missionary  Society  who  had  waited  on 
Lord  Teignmouth  at  the  same  time.  I  soon  found  that  Lord 
Teignmouth  had  put  them  out  of  conceit  of  their  strength,  as 
much  as  Mr.  Grant  had  me ;  and  we  were  by  this  time  of  the 
mind  not  to  provoke  discussion,  but  to  meet  it  if  it  came.  From 
thence  I  set  about  p Ating  the  statement — I  printed  a  thousand, — 
and  waited  the  event  of  June  1 7th.  Having  seen  Mr.  Grant  on 
the  16  th,  I  found  that  the  threatened  discussion  was  likely  to 
evaporate  in  nothing.  He  then  directed  me  to  send  copies  of  the 
printed  statement,  folded  in  white  paper,  to  all  the  Directors — to 
all  the  members  of  the  Board  of  Control — to  the  principal  mem- 
bers of  the  administration — to  several  of  the  nobility — and  to  cer- 
tain female  branches  of  the  Royal  family.  I  was,  moreover,  to 
write  inside  the  cover  to  all  the  Directors,  and  to  the  President  of 
the  Board  of  Control,  that  I  and  another  member  of  the  Society 
would  in  a  few  days  wait  on  them,  and,  if  agreeable,  should  be 
glad  of  a  few  minutes'  conversation  on  the  subject  Thus  I  had 
two  or  three  weeks'  work  cut  out,  and  Mr.  Grant  told  me  I  must 
expect  it  to  be  up-hill  work;  but  it  would  have  a  conciliatory 
effect  with  some,  and  enable  us  to  judge  of  the  degree  of  opposition 
we  might  have  to  expect 

"  The  next  day,  the  17th,  I  found  the  motion  was  made  at  the 
India  House ;  but  our  good  friend,  Mr.  Parry,  the  Chairman,  had 
talked  beforehand  with  the  mover,  and  had  so  neutralised  him,  that 
his  motion  passed  off,  as  mere  milk  and  water,  and  no  reflections 
whatever  were  thrown  out  against  the  Missions.  My  next  object 
was  to  circulate  the  statement,  and  after  a  few  days  to  visit  the 
parties  in  company  with  Mr.  Burls.  We  waited  on  fifteen  or 
sixteen  Directors  out  of  the  twenty-four.    Our  introduction  to  each 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1806.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORB  MISSION.  279 

was, t  Have  you  received  a  pamphlet  with  such  a  title  ?  '  '  Yes.' 
'  We  hope  you  have  had  leisure  to  read  it'  This  was  commonly 
the  case.  '  We  hope,  sir,  you  are  satisfied  there  has  been  nothing 
improper  in  the  conduct  of  the  missionaries.'  Out  of  the  twenty- 
four,  about  eight  were  missed  as  not  at  home — four  or  five  were 
friends,  four  or  five  enemies,  and  the  rest  a  sort  of  neutrals.  But 
the  person  of  the  greatest  importance  to  the  object  was  the  Presi- 
dent of  the  Board  of  Control.  My  friend  Mr.  Grant,  having  had 
much  to  do  with  him,  was  anxious  that  I  should  have  an  interview 
with  him.  I  found  him — Mr.  R.  Dundas,  the  son  of  Lord 
Melville  —  an  open,  intelligent,  well-behaved  man.  Having 
asked  him  the  usual  questions,  he  said  he  had  received  and  care- 
fully read  the  pamphlet ;  and  instead  of  thinking  the  conduct  of 
the  missionaries  improper,  it  appeared  to  him  to  have  been  highly 
proper.  '  But  Mr.  Fuller,'  said  he,  '  the  minds  of  the  Hindoos 
are  attached  to  their  superstitions,  and  require  to  be  treated  with 
prudence  and  caution.  You  must  not  be  too  zealous.  I  saw  a 
paper  written,  I  suppose,  by  some  of  your  people,  in  which  there 
were  some  strong  things.'  Fuller:  'Do  you  recollect  any  of 
them,  sir  ? '  Dundas :  '  Yes  it  was  said,  Your  Shasters  are 
founded  in  fable,  and  are  fit  for  women  and  children  rather  than 
men,  or  to  this  effect.  To  be  sure,  this  is  true ;  but  it  id  provoking. 
If  we  were  told  so,  we  could  not  bear  it.'  Fuller :  '  It  happens, 
sir,  that  I  have  seen  that  paper,  and  can  tell  you  the  history  of  it.' 
It  was  not  written  by  any  of  the  missionaries,  but  by  a  converted 
native,  since  dead.  It  was  called  *  The  Gospel  Messenger.'  The 
language  may  seem  strong  to  us,  sir,  but  we  must  not  compare  a 
high-spirited  Englishman  with  a  Hindoo.  They  will  bear  that  and 
much  more  without  being  in  a  passion,  or  without  any  tumult  being 
excited.'  (The  tract  seems  to  have  been  translated  into  English, 
and  sent  over  to  some  of  the  Directors  by  some  person  in  India. 
I  met  with  it  in  the  India  House.)  Dundas :  '  I  acknowledge 
we  have  had  no  accounts  of  these  things  but  by  private  letters.' 
Fuller :  *  It  is  our  request,  sir,  not  to  be  judged  by  private 
letters  and  rumours,  but  by  explicit  accusations,  which  we  may  be 
able  to  meet.'  Dundas:  'That  is  but  fair.'  Fuller:  'What- 
ever may  be  said  of  the  preaching  or  writings  of  the  missionaries, 
or  of  the  converted  natives,  it  is  a  fact  that  neither  have  produced 
any  other  resentment  than  what  has  been  expressed  in  words,  and 
those  were  directed  merely  against  the  preachers.  No  tumult,  or 
anything  affecting  Government,  has  occurred.'    Dundas :  '  Well, 

T  4 


Digitized  by 


Google 


280  HISTORY  OF  THE  8EBAMPORE  MISSION.       [Chap.  V. 

you  must  proceed  with  caution.'  Fuller :  *  We  wish  to  be  treated, 
sir,  as  we  deserve.  If  we  do  wrong  we  expect  to  be  answerable 
for  it :  but  we  do  not  wish  to  be  prejudged,  nor  to  have  conse- 
quences ascribed  to  our  actions  before  they  appear.  We  can 
account,  sir,  for  the  private  letters  which  have  been  written 
against  us,  though  we  know  not  the  writers.  Far  be  it  from  us  to 
wish  to  accuse  our  countrymen,  but  we  have  been  long  aware  that 
many  Europeans  in  India  have  renounced  Christianity.  It  is  no 
wonder  that  such  persons  should  dislike  the  missionaries  and  avail 
themselves  of  everything  to  stir  up  the  Government  against  them.' 
All  this  he  heard  without  any  remarks.  Fuller :  €  We  shall  be 
glad  to  obtain  an  express  permission,  or  what  perhaps  would  be 
called  a  toleration,  allowing  us  to  itinerate  and  settle  missionary 
stations  in  the  country,  that  we  may  not  be  interrupted  by  the 
magistrates.'  Dundas :  €  I  suppose  you  would ;  but  do  you  mean 
to  apply  for  it  immediately  ? '  Fuller :  '  No,  sir,  we  do  not. 
We  are  advised  to  wait  till  the  present  sensations  shall  have  sub- 
sided.' Dundas :  '  I  think  that  would  be  wise ;  perhaps  in  four 
or  five  months  you  might  obtain  it.'  Fuller  :  '  Meanwhile,  sir,  we 
rely  on  the  justice  and  generosity  of  Government  not  to  hurt  us, 
unless  we  should  prove  ourselves  undeserving  of  protection.'  To 
this  he  assented.  I  then  said,  I  had  wished  to  wait  on  all  the 
members  of  the  Board  of  Control  as  well  as  on  himself,  but  was 
obliged  to  leave  town  next  day.  He  answered,  he  believed  my 
conversation  with  him  would  answer  every  purpose. 

"In  general,  I  observed  that  the  most  friendly  part  of  the 
Directors,  as  well  as  Mr.  Dundas,  dwelt  on  the  necessity  of  our  pro- 
ceeding slowly  and  cautiously  in  preaching  to  the  natives.  This 
circumstance  impresses  me  with  the  idea,  that  should  they  grant 
us  permission,  it  will  be  under  some  restrictions  which  may  prove  in- 
jurious. I  have  suggested  this  to  Mr.  Grant  in  writing,  as  well  as  in 
the  above  conversation,  that  it  may  be  guarded  against  Mr.  Parry, 
the  Chairman  of  the  direction,  expressed  a  hope  that  they  would 
obtain  permission  for  us  in  a  while ;  but  Mr.  Burls,  who  was  with 
us,  says,  he  confined  it  to  those  missionaries  who  were  there.  I  did  not 
observe  this,  but  lest  it  should  so  be,  I  mentioned  it  in  a  conversa- 
tion with  Mr.  Grant,  to  which  he  replied, '  If  we  can  but  get  the 
principle  admitted,  every  thing  else  will  follow  of  course.'  I  also 
told  Mr.  Grant,  that  I  desired  no  favour  to  be  granted  to  our 
missionaries  which  should  not  apply  to  others. 

"  I  one  day  called  on  Marquis  Wellesley,  and  sat  half  an  hour  with 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1806.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SKRAMPOBE  MISSION.  281 

him.  I  told  him  what  had  befallen  you  since  his  departure,  and 
he  told  me  very  frankly  the  principles  on  which  he  had  been 
guided  in  his  conduct  towards  you,  viz.  that  he  thought  it  his  duty  to 
facilitate  your  labours  so  far  as  he  could  do  so,  without  implicating 
Government,  or  causing  it  to  be  considered  as  patronising  you.  I 
said,  we  desired  only  to  be  protected  like  other  subjects,  and  that 
only  while  our  conduct  was  deserving.  I  asked  him,  if  applica- 
tion had  been  made  to  him  for  permission  to  itinerate  and  form 
stations,  whether  he  should  have  felt  an  objection  to  granting  it  ? 
He  would  not  say  he  should  not.  He  seemed  to  think  that  Govern- 
ment should  be  neutral,  and  that  such  a  step  might  be  departing  in 
some  measure  from  that  neutrality.  Upon  the  whole,  he  spoke 
very  friendly  and  with  great  respect  of  the  missionaries.  He  said, 
as  to  their  being  in  any  way  accessory  to  the  Vellore  mutiny,  that 
was  impossible.  He  was  not  certain,  however,  that  it  might  not 
have  been  aided  by  the  intemperate  zeal  of  some  of  the  mission- 
aries on  the  coast  —  *  though,'  he  added,  'I  certainly  have  no 
grounds  to  conclude  that  it  was.'  I  parted  with  him  by  saying, 
that  as  his  lordship  was  acquainted  with  the  present  administration, 
and  might  possibly  be  asked  his  opinion  of  the  conduct  of  the 
missionaries ;  if  he  would  express  the  same  sentiments  on  such 
occasion  as  he  had  been  pleased  to  express  to  me,  we  should  be 
greatly  obliged  to  him.  He  very  readily  promised  to  do  so,  and 
offered  me  access  to  him  on  any  occasion.  I  mentioned  the  great 
respect  which  I  kn^w  the  missionaries  felt  towards  him,  and  the 
intimation  I  had  received  from  Mr.  Carey  of  a  grammar  being 
about  to  arrive,  which  it  was  his  wish  should  be  presented  to  him. 
Soon  after  I  had  printed  the  statement,  I  sent  one  to  him. 

While  I  was  in  town,  I  had  two  interviews  with  Lord  Teign- 
mouth.  I  found  him  a  cordial  friend,  and,  as  it  appeared  to  me,  a 
sincere  Christian.  He  is  a  member  of  the  Board  of  Control, 
and  one  of  his  Majesty's  Privy  Council.  The  first  time,  he 
appeared  willing  to  do  anything  in  his  power  for  you,  and  resolved 
to  make  use  of  all  his  influence,  and  which,  having  been  Governor- 
General,  is  not  small  in  India  affairs.  The  second  time  he  read  to 
me  a  representation  which  he  had  drawn  up  in  favour  of  Missions, 
but  said,  '  You  will  not  expect  me  to  tell  you  what  use  I  intend 
to  make  of  it  in  your  favour.'  It  was  firm,  temperate,  and  judi- 
cious. It  went  to  prove  that  our  footing  in  India  was  very  pre- 
carious, unless  we  had  a  body  of  the  people  attached  to  us,  and 
which  could  be  done  only  by  Christianity.     He  first  prefaced  it, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


282  HISTOEY  OF  THE  SERAMFOBE  MISSION.       [Chap.  V. 

however,  by  stating  that  Missions  were  right,  and  that  whatever 
was  right  would  be  found  to  be  wise  ;  but  added, '  As  the  policy 
of  a  measure  may  be  thought  necessary  to  be  established,  I  will 
undertake  to  prove,  that  independent  of  every  other  consideration 
it  is  sound  policy  to  encourage  Christian  Missions  in  India.' — As 
to  the  use  he  intended  to  make  of  it,  he  designed  it  no  doubt  for 
the  highest  authorities  in  the  Board  of  Control,  or  any  others  who 
might  have  an  influence  upon  that  Board.  I  took  his  lordship  a 
printed  statement,  which  contained  your  sentiments  on  the  above 
subject.  He  would  read  it,  he  said,  but  he  wished,  before  he  had 
read  anything  from  any  quarter,  to  write  his  own  thoughts,  and 
he  had  done  so." 

The*  number  baptised  during  the  year  amounted  to 
twenty-two,  drawn  from  various  parts  of  the  country,  from 
Native  conTeru  Jessore,  from  Chittagong,  and  from  a  village 
of  the  year.  opposite  to  Calcutta,  where  several  families  had 
forsaken  idolatry.  Two  of  the  converts  were  from  the 
city  of  Patna,  one  a  Hindoo,  and  the  other  a  well-educated 
Mahomedan,  Hidutulla,  to  whom  we  shall  have  occasion 
to  allude  in  the  succeeding  year.  One  of  the  converts 
had  been  a  disciple  of  Ramdoolal,  mentioned  in  the  notice 
of  1802.  Another  was  Prankrishnu,  who  was  soon  after 
employed  in  preaching  to  his  fellow-countrymen,  and  con- 
tinued for  forty  years  to  promote  the  spread  of  the  Gospel 
by  his  missionary  and  pastoral  labours,  as  well  as  by  his 
exemplary  walk  and  conversation.  A  youth  of  the  name 
of  Gorachand,  an  inquirer,  was  violently  captured  by  his 
friends  on  his  way  to  the  Mission  House,  and  forced  into 
a  boat  doubly  manned.  His  screams  attracted  attention, 
and  the  missionaries  pursued  the  party  in  their  own  boat, 
aided  by  that  of  Mr.  Brown.  By  great  exertion  they 
came  up  with  the  captors  before  they  could  reach  the 
opposite  shore,  and  rescued  the  victim.  He  was  baptised 
after  a  suitable  period  of  probation.  On  the  25th  of  May 
of  this  year  the  missionaries  record,  that  out  of  forty  whom 
they  had  recently  baptised,  they  had  reason  to  fear  that 
four  or  five  were  utterly  insincere  in  their  profession  of 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1806.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  283 

Christianity.  In  their  quarterly  letter,  at  the  close  of  the 
year,  they  mention  that  the  whole  number  baptised  since 
their  settlement  at  Serampore  had  been  a  hundred  and 
four,  of  whom  ninety-four  were  natives ;  of  these  they  had 
been  under  the  necessity  of  excluding  thirteen,  and  six  had 
been  removed  by  death.  They  had  ten  native  itinerants, 
whom  they  continued  to  send  out,  two  and  two,  to  a  dis- 
tance of  many  miles  round  them,  notwithstanding  the 
prohibition  of  Government.  They  thought  it  would  be 
time  to  discontinue  these  journeys  when  the  itinerants 
were  actually  driven  back  into  the  town  by  British 
officers.  They  enumerated  three  subordinate  stations — 
Dinagepore,  under  Mr.  Fernandez;  Cutwa,  under  Mr. 
Chamberlain;  and  Malda,  temporarily  occupied  by  Mr. 
Mardon.  As  regards  Calcutta,  they  write,  "  How  can  we 
avoid  sighing  when  we  think  of  the  number  of  perishing 
souls  which  this  city  contains,  and  recollect  the  multitudes 
who  used  of  late  to  hang  on  our  lips,  standing  in  the 
thick-wedged  crowd,  for  hours  together,  in  the  heat  of  a 
Bengal  summer,  listening  to  the  Word  of  Life !  We  feel 
thankful,  however,  that  nothing  has  been  found  against  us 
except  in  the  matter  of  our  God.  Conscious  of  the  most 
cordial  attachment  to  the  British  Government,  and  of  the 
liveliest  interest  in  its  welfare,  we  might  well  endure 
reproach  were  it  cast  on  us,  but  the  tongue  of  calumny 
itself  has  not  been  suffered  to  bring  the  slightest  accusa- 
tion against  us."  They  still  held  religious  services  in  the 
private  house  they  rented  in  Calcutta,  and  their  Armenian 
friends  had  begun  to  erect  a  small  room  for  native 
worship  on  their  own  premises  in  the  Chitpore  road. 
One  Grieff,  also,  a  Protestant  schoolmaster,  opened  his 
house  for  worship,  but  the  bungalow  in  the  Bow  Bazar 
continued  to  be  closed  by  public  authority.  Mr.  Biss,  one 
of  the  missionaries  who  had  come  out  in  the  preceding 
year,  was  attacked  with  what  was  commonly  termed  the 
"liver  complaint,"  considered  so  fatal  to  European  con- 
stitutions in  India.     The  most  eminent  physicians  in  Cal- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


284  HISTORY  OP  THE  SERAMTORE  MISSION.      [Ch*p.  V. 

cutta  were  consulted,  but  the  disease  increased  so  rapidly 
as  to  constrain  them  to  advise  his  immediate  return  to 
Europe  as  the  only  chance  of  recovery.  He  embarked  on 
an  American  ship  with  his  wife  and  three  children,  but 
even  for  the  inferior  fare  and  accommodation  of  this  vessel 
his  brethren  were  obliged  to  pay  what  would  now  appear 
the  exorbitant  sum  of  5001.  In  one  of  the  Company's 
ships  the  charge  would  have  been  more  than  doubled. 

Towards  the  close  of  this  year,  the  missionaries  were 
required  to  lay  down  a  precedent  for  the  course  to  be  pur- 
sued when  the  wife  of  a  convert  refused  to 
SS^JZot^hL.  join  him  after  he  had  embraced  Christianity. 
^ut4,lhu8-er   Bhagvat,  a  young  brahmin,  had  been  baptised 
some  months  before ;  his  wife  rejected  all  his 
entreaties  to  live  with  him  ;  and  it  became  desirable  that 
he  should  marry  again.     But  the  missionaries  were  un- 
willing to  encourage  this  course,  till  every  effort  to  over- 
come the  wife's  reluctance  had  been  exhausted.     Bhagvat 
was,  therefore,  directed  to  draw  up  a  document  stating 
that  he  had  embraced  Christianity,  but  still  continued  to 
consider  himself  the  lawful  husband  of  the  woman  he  had 
married  when  a  Hindoo,  and  was  still  willing  to  discharge 
all  the  duties  of  a  husband  towards  her  affectionately,  but 
that  he  should  consider  the  connection  dissolved  if  she 
persisted  in  refusing  to  live  with  him.     The  document 
was  formally  registered  in  the  Serampore  Court,  and  he 
proceeded  with  it  to  his  own  village.     He  was  not,  how- 
ever, permitted  to  pollute  the  family  mansion  by  his  pre- 
sence, nor  would  his  wife  hold  any  communication  with 
him.     He  was  obliged,  therefore,  to  stand  at  the  outer 
door,  where  he  read  the  paper  aloud  in  the  presence  of 
several  witnesses,  and  then  sent  it  to  his  wife,  who  was 
listening  from   within.     He  called  on  her  distinctly  to 
state  whether  she  would  accompany  him  to  Serampore. 
After  a  short  pause,  she  tore  the  paper  in  pieces,  and 
declared  that  from  the  day  of  his  baptism  she  had  re- 
nounced him  for  ever,  and  assumed  the  condition  and  dress 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1806.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  285 

of  a  widow.  He  asked  for  a  deed  of  separation,  which  was 
refused,  and  he  returned  to  Serampore,  where  Mr.  Carey 
and  his  colleagues,  after  maturely  weighing  the  circum- 
stances of  the  case,  determined  in  accordance  with  the 
decision  of  St.  Paul : — "  But  if  the  unbelieving  depart,  let 
him  depart.  A  brother  or  a  sister  is  not  under  bondage 
in  such  a  case ;"  that  the  convert  was  no  longer  debarred 
from  contracting  a  second  marriage. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


286  HISTORY  OP  THE  SERAMPOBB  MISSION.      [Chap.  VI. 


CHAP.  VI. 

At  the  beginning  of  1807,  the  College  of  Fort  William 
was  remodelled  and  reduced.     When  the  Court  of  Di- 
rectors were  constrained,  under  the  pressure  of 
s£twu^f     ^r*  P^8  influence,  to  revoke  the  order  for  its 
abolition,  they  resolved  to  erect  another  insti- 
tution in  England  upon  a  similar  plan,  and,  to  a  certain 
extent,  with  a  similar  object.     It  was  the  College  of  Fort 
William  which  gave  birth  to  the  College  at  Haileybuiy. 
While  the  Directors,  therefore,  censured  the  proceedings 
of  Lord  Wellesley  in  India,  they  paid  him  no  mean  com- 
pliment by  adopting  the  principles  on  which  his  college 
was  founded,  in  one  of  their  own  creation.     After  Lord 
Wellesley   once    raised    the    qualifications   of  the    civil 
service,  it  was  fmpossible  for  the  Court  to  revert  to  the 
loose  and  inefficient  system  of  tuition,  which  had  pre- 
viously been  deemed  sufficient.     In  the  new  institution  at 
EsubH.hm.nt  of  Haileybury,   they  made  provision  for  the  in- 
Haiieybury.       struction  of  the  young  civilian  in  all  those 
branches  of  European  knowledge  which  the   Governor- 
General  had  proposed  to  teach  in  the  Calcutta  College. 
His  European  education  was  thus  completed  before  he 
embarked  for  India;  and  he  acquired  at  the  same  time 
the  rudiments  of  the  Eastern  languages.     At  the  annual 
examination  of  the  College  of  Fort  William  in  1807,  the 
visitor,  Sir  George  Barlow,  described  Haileybury  as  "  in- 
tended to  afford  gentlemen,  destined  for  the  civil  service 
of  the   Company,   an    opportunity   of   acquiring    those 
branches  of  knowledge  which  the  service  requires,  and 
which  are  more  easily  obtainable  in  England  than  in  this 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1807.]  HISTOBY  OF  THE  SEBAMPOBE  MISSION.  287 

country,  and  becoming  initiated  in  the  elements  of  those 
studies  for  the  attainment  of  perfection  in  which  the 
College  of  Fort  William  is  exclusively  calculated."  That 
these  branches  of  European  knowledge  can  be  more  suc- 
cessfully cultivated  in  England  than  in  India,  will  not 
admit  of  a  doubt,  and  the  establishment  at  Haileybury 
may  therefore  be  considered,  not  merely  as  the  triumph 
of  Lord  Wellesley's  views,  but  also  as  an  improvement  on 
his  plans.  When  the  arrangements  for  the  institution 
were  completed,  orders  were  issued  from  Leadenhall 
Street,  in  May,  1806,  to  reduce  the  College  of  Fort  William. 
The  offices  of  Provost  and  Vice-Provost  were  abolished, 
by  which  the  influence,  as  well  as  the  income,  of  Mr.  Brown 
and  Mr.  Buchanan  was  materially  curtailed.  The  former 
was  reduced  from  40,000  to  16,000  rs.  a  year,  and  the 
latter  from  34,000  to  15,000  rs.  The  period  of  study 
was  also  limited  to  a  single  twelvemonth,  and  the  pro- 
fessorships were  restricted  to  three,  the  Hindoostanee,  the 
Persian,  and  the  Bengalee.  The  statutes  were  likewise 
remodelled,  and  the  clause  requiring  its  officers  to  profess 
the  religion  of  the  Church  of  England,  which  the  episcopal 
zeal  of  Mr.  Buchanan  had  introduced,  was  abrogated. 
Mr.  Carey,  who  had  hitherto  ranked  only  as  a  teacher,  was 
now  raised  to  a  professorship,  and  his  allowances  were 
increased  from  500  rs.  a  month  to  1000,  "  which,"  as  he 
writes,  "  will  be  a  great  help  to  the  Mission." 

The  Mission  to  Burmah  commenced  with  the  year  1807. 
Some  reflections  were  subsequently  cast  on  the  Serampore 
missionaries  for  thus  dissipating  their  strength  MU8lonto 
on  foreign  missions,  instead  of  concentrating  Bunnah- 
it  in  Bengal.  But  it  must  be  borne  in  mind,  that  this 
Mission  was  undertaken  under  the  pressure  of  a  strong 
necessity,  when  their  path  in  the  British  territories  was 
blocked  up  by  the  fears  and  the  hostility  of  their  own 
Government.  When  Mr.  Chater  embarked  for  Rangoon, 
he  was  under  orders  to  reimbark  for  England,  nor  could 
the  Serampore  missionaries  have  attempted  the  establish- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


288  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  VI. 

ment  of  new  stations  in  the  Bengal  Presidency  with  any 
degree  of  confidence,  while  those  which  they  had  ventured 
to  plant  were  liable,  at  any  time,  to  be  broken  up  by  an 
officious  judge  or  magistrate.  The  Burmese  Mission  was 
regarded  with  feelings  of  the  most  affectionate  solicitude. 
"  Besides  making  it,"  writes  Mr.  Carey,  "  a  subject  in  all 
our  prayers,  we  have  appointed  an  hour  in  the  Friday 
evening  of  the  month,  to  seek  the  Divine  blessing  on  it." 
The  instructions  which  were  given  to  the  missionaries  on 
their  departure,  serve  to  exhibit  those  enlarged  views 
which  were  associated  in  the  minds  of  the  Serampore 
missionaries  with  the  diffusion  of  divine  truth. 

"  You  will,  in  a  manner  tending  to  excite  as  little  suspicion  as 
possible,  inquire  into  the  established  religion  of  the  country,  and 
how  far  the  Government  may  be  disposed  to  resist  any  encroach- 
ments on  it,  —  what  is  the  present  state  of  the  Catholics,  and  in 
what  way  they  attempt  to  make  proselytes,  — whether  the  Govern- 
ment appears  to  be  under  the  influence  of  the  Brahmins,  —  what 
are  the  laws  of  police  with  respect  to  foreigners,  and  whether  the 
Government  be  jealous  of  them,  —  in  what  capacity  a  European 
might  with  the  least  suspicion  reside  in  Rangoon,  —  the  language  of 
the  country,  its  different  dialects,  and  the  best  means  of  acquiring 
it,  —  the  state  of  civilisation,  and  how  far  the  lower  orders  are 
affected  by  the  reigning  superstition,  —  the  price  of  the  principal 
articles  of  subsistence,  and  of  the  necessary  accommodations,  — 
whether  there  be  any  commercial  intercourse  between  the  Burmans 
and  the  Chinese,  —  whether  female  foreigners  have  the  liberty  of 
going  and  returning  from  the  country,  —  the  general  currency,  and 
state  of  exchange  between  Rangoon  and  Bengal, — what  agreement 
there  is  between  the  superstition  of  the  country  and  that  of 
Bengal ;  whether  there  be  any  castes,  and  whether  the  natives  dis- 
cover aversion  to  any  of  the  European  customs,  —  whether  the 
natives  have  frequent  intercourse  with  the  neighbouring  islands, 
and  whether  the  language  of  those  places  could  be  learnt  at 
Rangoon, — the  most  prevalent  diseases  of  the  country,  particularly 
of  the  district  in  which  you  may  be  called  to  reside.  Collect  any 
natural  curiosities  you  may  meet  with,  or  specimens  of  their 
manufactures,  which  may  tend  to  illustrate  the  manners  and 
customs  of  the  Burmans. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1807. J  HISTORY  OF  THE  SBRAMPORB  MISSION.  289 

"  If  you  can  do  it  with  propriety,  visit  other  parts  of  the  adja- 
cent country,  to  ascertain  whether  Rangoon  be  the  best  for  the 
missionary  station. 

"  If  introduced  to  any  of  the  Catholic  priests,  endeavour  to  pro- 
cure their  confidence,  by  an  ingenuous  and  affectionate  behaviour 
towards  them. 

"  If  you  should  happen  to  be  called  into  the  presence  of  the 
king,  avoid  all  reserve,  and  put  on  a  cheerful  and  winning  con- 
fidence; offering  your  services  to  him  in  a  way  becoming  your 
characters,  and  testifying  your  loyalty  as  becomes  Christians. 

"  Be  not  discouraged  by  any  of  the  difficulties  you  may  meet 
with  —  be  of  one  soul  —  surrender  yourselves  wholly  up  to  the 
Lord,  and  He  will  be  with  you,  and  prosper  your  way  before  you." 

On  the  25th  of  January  Mr.  Ward  opened  the  little 
Chapel  in  the  Chitpore  road,  which  is  the  great  thorough- 
fare in  the  native  quarter  of  the  city  of  Cal-  chapeiinthe 
cutta.  It  was  simply  a  room  in  the  house  of  Chttp°re-road- 
one  of  their  Armenian  friends,  which  had  been  fitted  up 
for  public  worship.  In  his  journal  he  notices  the  un- 
feigned satisfaction  he  felt  in  being  the  honoured  instru- 
ment of  thus  commencing  the  worship  of  God  in  this 
Chapel,  as  he  had  done  in  the  Bow  Bazar  bungalow,  little 
supposing,  at  the  time,  that  before  the  end  of  the  year  this 
small  and  unpretending  meeting-house  would,  in  like  man- 
ner, excite  the  alarm  of  Government  and  be  closed  by  its 
order.  The  Armenian,  to  whom  the  house  belonged,  had 
erected  a  large  wooden  cross  over  the  gateway,  but  Mr. 
Marshman,  well  knowing  the  superstitious  veneration  in 
which  the  cross  was  held  by  the  Armenians  and  Roman 
Catholics  who  assembled  there  for  worship,  deemed  it 
advisable  to  correct  this  feeling  by  requesting  the  removal 
of  it,  and,  on  some  appearance  of  hesitation,  called  for  a 
ladder  and  took  it  down  with  his  own  hands.  It  must, 
however,  be  observed  that  it  was  only  with  reference  to 
the  peculiar  associations  of  the  case,  and  the  ignorance 
and  superstition  which  pervaded  the  class  of  men  who 
attend  the  services,  that  Mr.  Marshman  required  the 
removal  of  this  ecclesiastical  emblem.     So  little  objection 

vol.  i.  u 

Digitized  by  VjOOQlC 


290  H1STOBY  OF  THE   SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  VI. 

had  he  to  it  in  a  situation  where  it  could  foster  no  error, 
that  he  preached  for  thirty  years  in  the  settlement  church 
at  Serampore,  the  steeple  of  which  was  surmounted  by  a 
large  gilt  cross.  On  the  1st  of  February  the  missionaries 
determined  to  celebrate  the  Lord's  supper  in  the  evening, 
as  a  separate  and  distinct  service,  and  the  arrangement, 
which  has  been  continued  at  Serampore  from  that  time  to 
the  present,  has  generally  been  acknowledged  to  be  pre- 
ferable to  that  of  administering  the  ordinance  immediately 
after  the  mind  has  been  fatigued  by  a  long  sermon.  On 
Mr  creyre-  *^e  8th  of  March  Mr.  Carey  received  the  di- 
S'KSy-1'  ploma  of  Doctor  of  Divinity,  from  Brown  Uni- 
DMnity.  versify,  in  the  United  States.     Seldom  has  this 

literary  distinction  been  conferred  by  that  body  on  one 
who  did  more  honour  to  the  selection.  Of  his  colossal 
labours  on  the  days  which  he  spent  in  Calcutta,  a  private 
letter  affords  the  following  memorial :  —  "He  rose  at  a 
quarter  before  six,  read  a  chapter  in  the  Hebrew  Bible, 
and  spent  the  time  till  seven  in  private  devotions.  He 
then  had  family  prayer  in  Bengalee  with  the  servants, 
after  which  he  read  Persian  with  a  Moonshee  who  was  in 
attendance.  As  soon  as  breakfast  was  over,  he  sat  down 
to  the  translation  of  the  Ramayun,  with  a  pundit,  till  ten ; 
when  he  proceeded  to  the  college,  and  attended  its  duties 
till  two.  Returning  home  he  examined  a  proof  sheet  of 
the  Bengalee  translation  of  Jeremiah,  and  dined  with  his 
friend  Mr.  Rolt.  After  dinner,  with  the  aid  of  the  chief 
pundit  of  the  college,  he  translated  a  chapter  of  Matthew 
into  Sanscrit.  At  six,  he  sat  down  with  the  Telinga 
pundit,  to  study  that  language,  and  then  preached  an 
English  sermon  to  a  congregation  of  about  forty.  The 
service  being  ended  at  nine,  he  sat  down  to  the  translation 
of  Ezekiel  into  Bengalee, — he  had  thrown  aside  his  former 
version,  and  was  now  retranslating  the  prophets.  At 
eleven,  the  duties  of  the  day  closed,  and  after  reading  a 
chapter  in  the  Greek  Testament,  and  commending  himself 
to  God,  he  retired  to  rest."    Few,  indeed,  were  the  men 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1807.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPOBB  MISSION.  291 

who  could  exhibit  such  a  report  of  their  time  in  the  ex- 
hausting climate  of  the  East. 

The  chapel  in  the  Bow  Bazar  had  now  made  consider- 
able progress,  and  the  walls  were  rising  rapidly  to  view, 
when  Mr.-Blacquiere,  one  of  the  magistrates  of  B;w  BaMr 
Calcutta,  who  watched  the  movements  of  the  Ch*peU 
missionaries  with  a  jealous  eye,  informed  the  architect 
that  as  it  was  a  public  edifice  it  was  necessary  to  obtain 
the  sanction  of  Government  for  its  erection.  Mr.  Carey 
and  his  colleagues  were  at  first  inclined  to  present  an 
application  to  the  Governor-General  in  their  own  names, 
but  were  deterred  by  the  assurance  that  it  would  scarcely 
be  granted.  The  architect  was,  therefore,  desired  to  con- 
tinue his  operations  without  intermission.  But  a  fortnight 
after  the  first  message,  Mr.  Blacquiere  sent  for  him  a 
second  time,  and  threatened  an  immediate  report  to 
Government  unless  permission  was  obtained  to  erect  it. 
To  prevent  an  official  and  unfavourable  representation,  at 
a  time  when  the  public  authorities  were  disposed  to  be 
hostile,  the  missionaries  were  constrained  to  go  up  to  the 
Supreme  Council,  and  as  it  was  considered  that  the  request 
would  be  more  likely  to  succeed  if  it  was  backed  by  the 
Christian  community  in  Calcutta,  Mr.  Marshman  drew  up 
a  memorial  to  the  Governor-General  in  Council,  soliciting 
permission  to  erect  a  place  of  Protestant  worship  in 
Calcutta ;  and,  during  the  month  of  April,  waited  in  person 
on  the  principal  inhabitants  not  in  the  public  service,  and 
obtained  more  than  a  hundred  signatures  to  it.  To  the 
great  delight,  as  well  as  surprise,  of  the  missionaries,  per- 
mission was  granted  within  a  week  to  proceed  with  the 
building. 

Mr.  Buchanan  returned   to   Calcutta  from  his  tour 
among  the  Syrian  Christians  in  the  south  of  India,  on 
the  13th  of  March,  and  found  that  the  office  he 
had  held  in  the  college  for  more  than  six  years  LWyucim3Ji- 
was  abolished,   and  that  his  connection  with 
that  institution,  which  had  been  the  pride  of  his  Indian 


Digitized  by 


Google 


292  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap*  VI. 

life,  and  the  origin  of  many  plans  of  utility,  as  well  as 
the  chief  source  of  his  influence,  had  been  abolished.  He 
found  also,  that  the  repugnance  of  the  governing  body 
to  everything  associated,  even  in  a  remote  degree,  with 
evangelisation  of  the  natives,  continued  without  abatement. 
In  one  of  his  letters  to  England,  written  at  this  time,  he 
affirmed  that  this  feeling  became  apparent  as  soon  as 
Lord  Wellesley  left  the  Government,  and  the  fact  is  cor- 
roborated in  a  letter  from  Dr.  Carey  to  Mr.  Fuller,  which 
states,  that  the  whole  period  of  Sir  George  Barlow's 
administration,  which  extended  to  twenty-two  months, 
was  one  of  almost  uninterrupted  opposition  to  Missions. 
Not  that  Sir  George  ever  manifested  the  least  feeling 
of  unfriendliness  to  the  missionaries  themselves, — the 
doubling  of  Dr.  Carey's  salary  was  a  token  both  of  official 
respect  and  personal  esteem ; — but  the  influence  of  the 
alarmists,  and  of  the  opponents  of  the  missionary  cause, 
had  gradually  been  gaining  strength  in  the  public  counsels, 
and  the  spirit  of  a  weak  Government  yielded  to  the  en- 
croachment of  their  influence.  Mr.  Buchanan  had  drawn 
up  a  summary  of  his  researches  among  the  ancient 
Christians  in  the  south  of  India,  and  he  proposed  to 
publish  it  under  the  title  of  "  Literary  Intelligence, "  in 
the  hope  of  strengthening  the  public  interest  in  the  spread 
of  Christian  knowledge  in  India.  The  Madras  authorities, 
however,  considered  it  a  very  dangerous  publication,  and 
refused  to  allow  it  to  appear  in  any  of  the  public  journals. 
The  Government  of  Bengal,  under  the  influence  of  the 
same  alarm,  excluded  it  from  the  papers  at  that  Presidency. 
Mr.  Buchanan  having  now  become  completely  alienated 
from  the  Government,  of  which  he  had  recently  been  one 
of  the  most  influential  members,  printed  the  u  Literary 
Intelligence,"  in  a  quarto  form,  in  a  large  type,  in  defiance 
of  its  known  wishes,  giving  in  an  appendix  that  which  he 
knew  would  be  particularly  irritating,  —  the  letter  ad- 
dressed to  him  by  the  University  of  Cambridge,  on  the 
diffusion  of  revealed  religion  among  the  natives  of  Asia. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1807.]  HISTORY  OP  THE   SEBAMPORE  MISSION.  293 

The  cordial  fellowship  which  had  so  long  subsisted 
between  Mr.  Brown  and  the  Serampore  missionaries  was 
unhappily  interrupted,  for  a  season,  in  the 
month  of  May  in  the  present  year.  Mr.  Brown,  B*uih  r«>i»- 
who  was  distinguished  by  the  frankness  and 
amiability  of  his  disposition,  entertained  a  feeling  of  the 
deepest  and  most  affectionate  deference  for  Mr.  Buchanan, 
whom  he  described  as  "  the  man  to  do  good  in  the  earth, 
and  worthy  of  being  Metropolitan  of  the  East."  His  in- 
fluence over  Mr.  Brown's  mind  was  that  of  a  bold  spirit 
over  a  meek  one.  Mr.  Buchanan,  with  all  his  liberality 
of  feeling,  never  lost  sight  of  the  interests  of  the  Church 
of  England,  and  the  kindness  he  manifested  towards  the 
missionaries  at  Serampore,  however  sincere,  was  too  often 
marked  by  an  exhibition  of  condescending  patronage.  On 
his  return  to  Calcutta,  he  found  all  his  plans  for  associating 
the  Translations  with  the  College  irrevocably  broken  up,  and 
he  determined,  therefore,  to  establish  another  institution 
for  promoting  this  object,  after  the  model  of  the  Propa- 
ganda at  Rome.  He  proposed  that  a  College  of  Trans- 
lations should  be  instituted  at  Serampore,  to  be  termed 
the  British  Propaganda,  and  to  be  supported  by  voluntary 
subscriptions  and  donations ;  that  it  should  be  placed  under 
the  patronage  of  his  Danish  Majesty  and  the  Society  for 
the  Promotion  of  Christian  Knowledge,  and  under  the 
perpetual  superintendence  of  a  clergyman  of  the  Church 
of  England ;  that  to  this  college  should  appertain  all  the 
sums  collected  for  translations  throughout  England, 
America,  and  India,  and  that  the  Mission  Press  at  Se- 
rampore should  be  attached  to  it,  and  be  henceforth 
called  the  Press  of  the  British  Propaganda.  Mr.  Buchanan 
communicated  his  plan  to  Mr.  Brown,  who  was  at  first 
opposed  to  it,  but  a  few  hours'  conversation  with  Mr. 
Buchanan  removed  every  objection,  and  he  became  its 
hearty  and  earnest  advocate,  and  sent  it  to  the  missionaries 
for  their  approval.  The  more  they  examined  it,  however, 
the  more  formidable  did  the  objections  to  it  appear.     They 

U  3 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


294  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE   MISSION.      [Chap.  VI, 

perceived  that  while  it  brought  no  additional  strength  to  the 
work  of  translations,  it  presented  a  most  formidable  aspect. 
In  the  existing  temper  of  Government  in  reference  to 
Missions,  they  feared  that  the  ostentatious  establishment  of 
such  a  college,  with  so  ominous  a  designation,  might  in- 
crease its  alarm  to  such  a  degree,  as  to  lead  to  the  conviction 
that  the  toleration  of  missionaries  was  no  longer  incom- 
patible with  the  public  peace.  The  appearance  of  a  rival 
college,  instituted  by  missionaries, — for  to  their  agency 
would  it  be  ascribed, — might,  moreover,  give  such  umbrage 
as  to  compromise  Dr.  Carey's  position  in  the  College  of 
Fort  William.  The  expenses  of  the  institution,  in  the 
erection  of  buildings  and  the  salaries  of  professors,  of 
which  there  were  to  be  five,  appeared  likely  to  absorb  all 
the  funds  which  might  be  raised  before  a  single  copy  of 
the  Scriptures  was  printed.  Such  a  college,  moreover, 
must  contain  within  itself  the  seeds  of  dissolution.  Though 
the  missionaries  might  have  little  objection,  on  the  ground 
of  personal  esteem,  to  the  supremacy  of  Mr.  Brown  or  Mr. 
Buchanan,  yet,  as  both  of  them  were  anxious  to  return  to 
England,  the  superintendence  of  the  college,  in  which  all 
their  labours  in  the  translations  were  to  be  merged,  must 
devolve  on  some  younger  and  less  experienced  man ;  and 
as  he  must  be  a  member  of  the  Church  of  England,  and 
might  be  a  high  churchman,  the  foundation  would  be  laid 
for  immediate  discord  and  eventual  disruption.  The 
missionaries,  therefore,  felt  themselves  constrained  strenu- 
ously to  resist  the  proposal.  Mr.  Brown,  on  the  contrary, 
had  such  implicit  confidence  in  Mr.  Buchanan,  and  his 
schemes,  as  to  assert  that  "  possibilities  were  more  within 
his  ken  than  in  that  of  other  men;"  and  a  long  contro- 
versial correspondence  was  carried  on  for  several  weeks, 
the  result  of  which  was  to  interrupt  for  a  time  that  cor- 
diality which  had  so  long  and  so  happily  subsisted  between 
the  missionaries  and  Mr.  Brown.  It  was  soon,  however, 
restored,  and  the  prayer-meetings  at  the  Pagoda  were  re- 
sumed, and  their  mutual  friendship  was  again  cemented 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1807.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SBRAMPORB  MISSION*  295 

by  the  new  difficulties  created  by  the  renewed  and  increased 
opposition  of  Government  to  Missions.  Mr.  Buchanan, 
meanwhile,  withdrew  his  Propaganda  project,  and  substi- 
tuted for  it  the  plan  of  a  u  Christian  Institution,"  dedicated 
to  all  good  men,  to  be  an  instrument  in  their  hands  of 
extending  the  knowledge  of  revealed  religion  by  the 
translation  of  the  Holy  Scriptures,  and  to  be  placed  under 
the  immediate  patronage  of  the  Archbishop  of  Canterbury, 
as  President  of  the  Society  for  the  Propagation  of  the 
Gospel  in  Foreign  parts,  and  of  the  Society  for  the  Pro- 
motion of  Christian  Knowledge.  It  was  in  connection 
with  this  institution,  that  he  asked  Mr.  Owen,  the  first,  and 
most  eminent  Secretary  of  the  Bible  Society,  for  a  subscrip- 
tion of  10,000£  a  year,  for  five  years,  with  which  "  the 
whole  Eastern  world  was  to  be  illuminated."  This  pro- 
ject was  considered  by  Mr.  Owen,  and  the  Bishop  of 
London  (Dr.  Porteous),  too  wild  and  visionary  to  be 
entertained,  and  Mr.  Owen  informed  Mr.  Fuller,  that,  in 
his  opinion,  the  Serampore  missionaries  had  acted  pru- 
dently and  fairly  in  rejecting  the  Propaganda* 

In  the  course  of  this  year,  Nathaniel  Sabat  arrived  at 
Serampore  with  a  letter  of  introduction  to  the  missionaries 
from  Dr.  Ker,  the  senior  chaplain  at  Madras. 
He  was  an  Arab  of  noble  extraction,  and 
claimed  the  distinction  of  being  directly  connected  with 
the  family  of  the  Prophet  After  various  adventures  in 
Central  Asia  of  a  very  romantic  character,  he  came  to 
India,  and  obtained  the  situation  of  expounder  of  Maho- 
medan  law  in  the  Civil  Court  of  Vizagapatam,  a  district 
on  the  Coromandel  coast,  under  the  Madras  Presidency, 
where  he  enjoyed  a  liberal  allowance  from  Government. 
The  perusal  of  the  New  Testament,  and  a  comparison  of 
the  doctrines  contained  in  it,  with  those  of  the  Koran, 
led  him  to  renounce  his  hereditary  creed  and  embrace 
Christianity.  By  this  change  of  faith,  his  position  in 
the  Court  was  rendered  disagreeable,  and  he  proceeded  to 
Madras  and  presented  himself  to  Dr.  Ker,  by  whom  he 

v  4 


Digitized  by 


Google 


296  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  VI. 

was  baptized  and  sent  up  to  the  missionaries  at  Serampore, 
that  he  might  enjoy  the  benefit  of  Christian  instruction 
and  society,  and  be  enabled  to  turn  his  knowledge  of 
Arabic  and  Persian  to  account  in  the  translations.     He 
was  very  cordially  received  by  the  missionaries,  who  ex- 
plained to  him  the  simple  and  economical  principles  of 
their  establishment,  and  offered  to  receive  him  into  the 
family.     He  was  a  man  of  lofty  stature,  and  as  haughty  in 
his  demeanour  as  might  have  been  expected  in  one  who 
traced  his  pedigree  to  Mahomed;  while  a  flowing  black 
beard  gave  additional  dignity  to  his  appearance.     He  was 
delighted  with  the  simplicity  of  life  and  the  devotedness 
to  one  great  object  which  he  witnessed  at  Serampore,  and 
determined  to  cast  in  his  lot  with  the  missionaries.     He 
dismissed  his  two  Arab  attendants,  dined  at  the  common 
table,  and  gave  up  his  time  and  attention  to  the  translation 
of  the  Scriptures.     Soon  after  his  arrival,  Mr.  Buchanan 
expressed  a  strong  desire  to  transfer  the  Persian  trans- 
lation of  the  New  Testament  to  Mr.  Martyn,  at  Dinapore, 
and  although  the  Serampore  missionaries  were  then  pro- 
secuting it,  with  the  aid  of  Sabat,  they  determined  to  relin- 
quish it  without  any  appearance  of  hesitation.       Mr. 
Buchanan  also  proposed  to  send  Sabat  to  Mr.  Martyn, 
on  a  salary  of  two  hundred  rupees  a  month,  to  which  the 
missionaries  demurred,  as  an  unnecessary  waste  of  public 
funds.     The  engagement  with  Sabat,  however,  was  com- 
pleted, and  he  left  Serampore — where,  notwithstanding  his 
fiery  Arab  temper,  he  had  lived  in  great  harmony  with 
the  missionaries — with  tears  in  his  eyes,     Mr.  Buchanan, 
on  his  return  to  England,  brought  the  romantic  and  inter- 
esting career  of  Sabat  before  the  English  public,  by  the 
publication  of  a  sermon  designated  the  "  Star  in  the  East." 
But  Sabat  was  not  a  man  to  act  in  subordination  to  any 
rules  which  did  not  exactly  coincide  with  his  own.     He 
fell  out  in  a  short  time  with  his  new  patrons,  and  addressed 
an  angry  remonstrance  to  Mr.  Udny,  in  which  he  signed 
himself  "  Nathaniel  Sabat,  a  free  Arab ;  never  was  in 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1807.]  HISTOBT  OF  THE  8ERAMK)RB  MISSION.  297 

bondage."  He  did  not  remain  long  with  Mr.  Martyn,  and 
was  said  to  have  subsequently  relapsed  to  Mahomedanism. 
He  wandered  to  various  places  in  India,  and  took  service 
some  years  later  with  the  Mussulman  chief  of  Acheen,  in 
the  island  of  Sumatra,  where  he  encountered  a  temper  as 
overbearing  as  his  own ;  and  having  given  umbrage  to  his 
master,  was  barbarously  hacked  to  pieces  and  his  body 
thrown  into  the  sea.  About  a  fortnight  after  Sabat  had 
been  thus  salaried,  Mr.  Buchanan  informed  the  Mr.  Buchmwi 
missionaries,  through  Mr.  Brown,  that  on  exa*  ,,roce■din«•• 
mining  the  account  of  the  Translation  Fund  sent  him  by 
the  treasurers,  he  found  that  there  remained  only  4800 
rupees  of  the  sums  raised  in  India,  and  that  he  had  there- 
fore directed  the  payment  of  300  rupees  a  month,  made  to 
them  for  the  translations  in  progress,  to  be  immediately 
discontinued.  Mr.  Marshman,  in  writing  on  the  subject 
to  Mr.  Fuller,  stated  that  this  measure  was  rendered  ne- 
cessary by  the  exhaustion  of  the  fund,  though  the  mode 
in  which  it  was  announced  taught  them  the  "  blessings  of 
co-operation."  He  remarked  that,  "though  the  whole 
amount  was  intended  by  the  public  for  us,  whose  names 
alone  were  attached  to  the  proposals,  we  were  not  only 
thought  unworthy  of  being  consulted  on  the  measure,  but 
even  of  having  it  communicated  to  us  in  a  direct  way." 
The  letter  concluded  with  the  following  just  and  not  un- 
generous remarks  on  Mr.  Buchanan's  proceedings: — 
"  Mr..  Buchanan  is  going  immediately  to  England,  per- 
haps never  to  return.  I  must,  after  all,  declare  that  he  is 
a,  good  man,  thoroughly  evangelical,  a  friend  to  the  cause 
of  God,  but  by  no  means  an  enemy  to  us ;  a  man  with 
whom  friendship  is  desirable,  but  not  coalition ;  the  ser- 
vices he  has  rendered  to  our  Mission  ought  never  to  be  for- 
gotten. A  little  too  much  of  worldly  prudence — not  ava- 
rice— and,  perhaps,  a  touch  of  ambition,  are  his  only 
blemishes.  We  came  to  greater  things.  We  are  fallen 
into  deep  waters." 
.    These  "deep  waters"  referred  to  the  opposition  of 


Digitized  by 


Google 


298  HISTORY  OF   THE  SERAMPOBE  MISSION.      [Chap.  VL 

Government,  which  was  revived  with  extraordinary  viru- 
lence on  the  arrival  of  Lord  Minto  as  Governor-General. 
But,  as  it  will  be  advisable  to  give  an  unbroken  narrative 
of  the  vigorous  effort  which  was  made  in  India,  in  Sep* 
tember,   1807,  and  a  few  months  later  in  England,   to 
extinguish  the  Mission,  the  remaining  incidents  of  1807 
will  be  disposed  of  before  we  touch  on  those  memorable 
events.     At  the  beginning  of  this  year,  Mr. 
m    80n*  Chater  and  Mr.  Mardon  sailed  for  Rangoon,  to 
make  inquiries  regarding  the  practicability  of  establishing 
a  Mission  in  the  Burmese  territories.     They  met  with  a 
generous  reception  from  the  European  traders  settled  at 
that  port,  as  well  as  from  one  of  the  Burmese  function- 
aries, and  returned  tp  Serarapore  in  May  with  a  favour- 
able report  of  the  missionary  prospects  in  Burmah.     Mr- 
Mardon,  however,  was  unwilling  to  return  thither;  he  was 
indisposed  to  the  labour  of  studying  a  second  language, 
and  his  diffident  mind  shrunk  from  the  task  of  breaking 
up  new  ground  in  a  foreign  country.     Mr.  Ward  then 
proposed  that  the  missionaries  should,  for  fifteen  days,  seek 
divine  guidance  as  to  the  choice  of  his  successor.     At  the 
end  of  that  time,  Mr.  Felix  Carey,  who  was  personally 
attached  to  Mr.  Chater,  offered  to  accompany  him.     Mr. 
Ward  and  Dr.  Carey  were  averse  to  his  removal ;  they 
considered  that  as  he  was  familiar  with  the  economy  of  a 
printing-office,  he  would  be  able  to  supply  Mr.  Ward's 
place  in  case  of  necessity,  and  that  his  complete  •know- 
ledge of  Sanscrit  and  Bengalee  would  render  him  a  valu- 
able assistant  in  the  translations.     Mr.  Felix  Carey,  how- 
ever, could  not  be  dissuaded  from  his  desire  to  embark  in 
this  new  and  difficult  entei*prise,  to  which  the  natural 
elasticity  of  his  mind  strongly  inclined  him;  and  the 
majority  -of  the  missionaries  being  disposed  to  accept  his 
offer,  it  was  determined  that  he  should  proceed  to  Burmah. 
A  passage  was  soon  after  procured,  but  the  Bay  swarmed 
with  French  privateers  from  the  Isle  of  France,  and  the 
most  enterprising  of  them,  Surcoeuf,  had  in  six  weeks  cap- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1807.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  8ERAMPORE  MISSION.  299 

tured  property  of  the  value  of  300,000/.  The  premium  of 
insurance  in  Calcutta  rose  to  a  prohibitory  rate,  the  trade 
of  the  port  was  completely  paralysed,  and  Government  was 
at  length  constrained  to  lay  an  embargo  on  all  vessels  in 
it.  The  only  ships  which  could  leave  the  port  without 
risk,  were  those  which  had  obtained  Danish  papers  and  a 
Danish  flag  from  the  neutral  settlement  of  Serampore, 
Mr.  Chater  and  Mr.  F.  Carey  were  thus  detained  to  the 
end  of  the  year,  when  the  vessel  in  which  a  passage  had 
been  engaged  was  taken  under  convoy  by  a  British  frigate, 
and  reached  the  mouth  of  the  Rangoon  river  in  safety. 

The  chapel  in  the  Bow  Bazar  had  been  pushed  on  with 
great  vigour  after  the  sanction  of  Government  was  ob- 
tained, but  the  funds  were  completely  exhausted,  and  the 
missionaries  had  come  under  large  obligations  Mr  Margbfnan 
to  Mr.  Rolt,  the  architect.  It  was  impossible  SSSJ/Si?' 
to  make  any  further  progress  without  additional  Cbape,# 
aid  from  the  public.  But  it  appeared  impolitic  to  attract 
public  attention  to  any  object  connected  with  the  Mission 
while  the  storm  of  opposition  continued  to  rage.  But  as 
soon  as  the  hostility  of  Government  appeared  to  have 
abated,  Mr.  Marshman  went  to  Calcutta,  and  in  person 
solicited  the  assistance  of  the  most  opulent  European 
gentlemen  unconnected  with  the  public  service.  He  pro- 
ceeded from  house  to  house,  with  the  subscription  paper  in 
his  pocket,  represented  the  destitute  condition  of  the 
Christian  population  who  were  unable  to  attend  the  Epis- 
copal churches,  and  the  efforts,  now  unhappily  suspended 
for  want  of  funds,  which  had  recently  been  made  to 
erect  a  chapel  for  their  benefit.  With  some  few  excep- 
tions he  was  received  with  courtesy,  and  his  application 
was  generally  successful.  One  member  of  the  Medical 
Board,  a  good  sample  of  the  Indianised  European,  told 
him  that  in  his  opinion  it  was  a  matter  of  perfect  indif- 
ference whether  a  man  worshipped  God  in  a  heathen  tem- 
ple, or  a  Mahomedan  mosque,  or  a  Christian  church ; 
qnd  that,  as  for  himself,  he  had  half  a  dozen  natural 


Digitized  by 


Google 


300  HISTORY  OF  THE   SBRAMPOBB  MISSION.      [Chap.  VI. 

children  to  provide  for,  and  could  not  subscribe.  Mr. 
Marshman,  who  had  few  equals  in  the  art  of  persuasive 
importunity,  succeeded  in  raising  I100Z.  in  less  than  ten 
days,  generally  from  gentlemen  independent  of  Government, 
and  altogether  unconnected  with  his  own  denomination. 
But  this  novel  exhibition  of  zeal  did  not  pass  without  an 
attempt  at  ridicule.  The  winter  of  1807  was  remarkable 
for  its  gaieties.  Lord  Minto's  arrival  had  given  a  new 
impulse  to  public  amusements,  and  there  was  an  unabated 
succession  of  balls  and  masquerades.  At  one  of  the  fancy 
balls  at  which  the  Governor-General  was  present,  some 
gentleman  thought  fit  to  amuse  the  company  by  per- 
sonating Mr.  Marshman,  and  went  about  the  room  with  a 
subscription  paper  under  his  arm,  habited  in  the  single- 
breasted  coat  and  breeches,  which  Mr.  Marshman  then 
wore,  and  which  he  continued  to  wear,  notwithstand- 
ing the  change  of  fashion,  down  to  the  day  of  his  death. 
In  the  description  given  of  the  entertainment  by  one 
of  the  eight  newspapers  then  published  in  Calcutta, 
it  was  announced,  that  among  other  amusing  characters 
there  was  "a  pious  missionary  soliciting  subscriptions, 
and  that  it  was  gratifying  to  remark  that  his  paper  had 
been  so  well  filled." 

A  reference  has  been  already  made  to  a  small  body 
of  pious  European  gentlemen  in  the  neighbourhood  of 

Malda,  who  were  endeavouring  to  diffuse 
cS^tonid     Christian  knowledge  around  them.     They  were 

Dr.  Carey's  friends  and  associates  while  he 
resided  at  Mudnabatty,  and  they  maintained  a  regular 
correspondence  with  him  and  his  colleagues  after  the 
Mission  had  been  removed  to  Serampore.  In  their 
journeys  to  and  from  Calcutta  they  seldom  passed  Seram- 
pore without  calling  to  make  inquiries  regarding  the  pro- 
gress of  the  Mission,  and  to  enjoy  the  congenial  society  of 
the  missionaries.  One  of  them,  Mr.  Creighton,  had  parti- 
cularly interested  himself  in  the  establishment  of  verna- 
cular schools,  and  had  drawn  up  and  published  "  a  few 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1807.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  301 

memoranda  on  the  most  obvious  means  of  establishing 
native  schools  for  the  introduction  of  the  Scriptures  and 
useful  knowledge  among  the  natives  of  Bengal."  He  was 
the  first  layman  in  India  who  appears  to  have  devoted  his 
attention  to  this  question,  and  his  pamphlet  has  all  the  in- 
terest of  novelty.  On  Mr.  Mardon's  relinquishing  the 
Burmese  Mission,  it  was  proposed  to  place  him  at  Goamalty, 
in  the  neighbourhood  of  Malda,  where  Mr.  Creighton  su- 
perintended a  factory  of  Mr.  Charles  Grant,  and  Mr.  Ward 
opened  a  correspondence  with  Mr.  Creighton  on  this 
subject.  But  the  letter  was  answered  by  his  friend 
Mr.  W.  Grant,  who  conveyed  the  melancholy  intelligence 
of  Mr.  Creighton's  unexpected  decease,  and  dwelt  with 
great  feeling  on  the  irreparable  loss  which  he  and  the 
cause  of  Indian  improvement  had  sustained  by  this  event. 
Mr.  Ward,  in  his  reply  to  this  letter,  expressed  the  deep 
regret  with  which  he  and  his  colleagues,  but  more  espe- 
cially Dr.  Carey,  had  received  this  announcement.  Before 
this  letter  reached  its  destination,  Mr.  Grant  himself  was 
in  his  grave.  He  died  within  a  fortnight  of  his  beloved 
associate,  and  at  the  same  house :  the  residence  of  a  common 
friend  at  Berhampore,  to  which  station  he  had  proceeded 
for  medical  advice.  A  few  days  before  his  death 
Mr.  Grant  made  his  will,  and  bequeathed  2000/.  to  the 
Serampore  Mission,  1009Z.  to  the  Translation  Fund,  and  a 
similar  sum  to  the  Evangelical  Fund  connected  with  the 
Mission  Church  in  Calcutta.  —  On  the  7th  of  December 
Mrs.  Carey  who  had  been  in  a  state  of  mental  p^  of  Mrf u 
aberration  for  twelve  years,  was  removed  by  Carey' 
death.  "  The  turn  of  her  mind  was  such,"  as  her  husband 
remarked  to  Mr.  Fuller,  "  as  to  prevent  her  feeling  even 
those  ideal  pleasures  which  are  sometimes  enjoyed  by  ma- 
niacal persons "  It  will  serve  to  give  some  idea  of  the 
strength  and  energy  of  Dr.  Carey's  character,  that  the  ar- 
duous biblical  and  literary  labours  in  which  he  had  been 
engaged  since  his  arrival  at  Serampore,  were  prosecuted 
while  an  insane  wife,  frequently  wrought  up  to  a  state  of 


Digitized  by 


Google 


302  HfSTOEY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Cha*.  TT. 

the  most  distressing  excitement,  was  in  the  next  room  but 
one  to  his  study. 

The  state  of  the  Mission  family  at  Serampore  had 
been  a  source  of  great  anxiety  to  the  senior  missionaries 
internal  .ut*  of   for  several  years.     In  addition  to  the  external 
the  MiMion.        difficulties  of  their  position,  they  had  to  combat 
the  uneven  tempers  and  disappointed  wishes  of  the  junior 
brethren,  some  of  whom  expressed  strong  dissatisfaction 
that  they  were  not  allowed  an  equal  share  of  authority 
with  Dr.  Carey,  Mr.  Marshman,  and  Mr.  Ward,  who  had 
steered  the  vessel  of  the  Mission  through  the  most  danger- 
ous quicksands,   and   the   most  violent  tempests.      The 
management  of  the  Mission  at  this  crisis  required  a  com- 
bination of  the  highest  prudence,  ability,  and  energy ; 
and  those  who  were  desirous  of  taking  the  helm  were 
entirely  destitute  of  these  qualifications.     Their  capacity 
for  administration  was  in  an  inverse  ratio  to  their  eager- 
ness to  grasp  it,  and  in  their  hands  the  Mission  would 
have  become  a  wreck  in  six  months.     So  vehement,  at  one 
time,  was  the  opposition  which  Dr.  Carey  and  his  two  col- 
leagues experienced  from  some  of  their  younger  brethren, 
that  they  were  constrained  to  submit  the  correspondence 
to  the  Society.     The  Society  had  always  reprobated  the 
concession  of  equality  which  the  senior  missionaries  had 
made  to  the  juniors,  for  the  sake  of  peace.     Dr.  Ryland, 
in  one  of  his  letters,  went  so  far  as  to  say,  "  Who  of  us 
ever  advocated  the  democratic  nonsense  of  every  appren- 
tice we  send  you  being  equal  the  moment  he  set  his  foot 
on  Bengal  ground?    You  may  have  had  such  notions;  we 
never  infused  them  into  your  mind."     The  Society  now 
perceived   the   necessity  of  counteracting  this  baneful 
system,  and  Mr*  Fuller,  on  reading  the  correspondence, 
wrote  to  Serampore  that  if  such  factious  antagonism  was 
not  discontinued,  the  committee  would  feel  it  their  painful 
duty  to  recall  those  who  appeared  so  impracticable.     At 
length  a  meeting  of  the  whole  body  of  missionaries  was 
held,  when  it  was   unanimously    resolved,    that   "the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1*07.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  303 

brethren  at  Serampore,  as  well  as  those  at  subordinate 
stations,  should  hereafter  choose  their  own  coadjutors." 
It  was  provided  that  each  station  should  be  independent 
as  to  its  family  connections,  and  that  those  who  formed  it 
should  be  associated  together  only  by  their  own  consent ; 
that  these  distinct  families  and  stations  should  constitute 
one  general  Mission,  with  a  committee  and  a  secretary  to 
transact  business  at  Serampore.  The  three  senior  mis- 
sionaries formed  the  committee,  and  Mr.  Rowe  was  fixed 
on  for  the  secretary.  The  extent  of  embarrassment  created 
by  these  contests,  may  be  estimated  from  Mr.  Ward's  re- 
marks on  the  resolution  : — "  The  burden  of  four  years  has 
been  taken  off  my  mind.  I  have  been  sighing  over  the 
Mission  and  its  fate,  when  it  should  fall  into  the  hands  of 

and ;  but  this  regulation  prevents  all  I  feared. 

My  dear  Fuller,  all  that  is  human  that  we  want  at  present 
is,  one  or  two  tried  men,  qualified  to  translate  and  to 
govern  honestly  and  mildly  when  we  are  dead  and  gone. 
You  send  us  raw  young  men,  perhaps  religious  adven- 
turers. One  of  them  tells  me  he  once  wanted  to  go  to  the 
West  Indies,  as  a  clerk,  or  something  in  a  plantation  ; 
then  to  become  an  officer ;  last  of  all,  he  became  a  mis- 
sionary. He  is  really  a  good  man,  but  to  him  the  Mis- 
sion is  a  sinecure.11  Soon  after,  in  enumerating  the 
difficulties  of  the  year,  he  says,  "  then  came  the  settling  of 
matters  in  our  own  family,  whether  the  Mission  should  be 
quite  open,  and  become  a  prey  to  some  little  tyrant,  or 
whether  the  preservation  of  it  should  be  formally  provided 
for.  This  last  has  been  done,  so  that  no  adventurer, 
either  at  Serampore,  or  at  any  other  station,  will  be  able 
to  assume  the  reins  without  being  called  to  it  in  a  regular 
way."  In  the  same  letter,  he  refers  to  some  remarks  which 
had  been  published  in  the  "  Theological  Repository"  by 
those  who  were  unfriendly  to  Missions,  and  which  Mr. 
Fuller  wished  him  to  refute.  He  says :  —  "  These  remarks 
indicate  a  cavilling,  censorious,  splitting  temper,  incom- 
patible with  the  state  of  a  mind  pursuing  .earnestly  great 


Digitized  by 


Google 


304  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORB  MISSION.      [Chap.  VI. 

objects.  You  wish  me  to  give  you  such  an  answer  as  you 
may  publish.  My  dear  brother,  these  drivelling  cavillers 
will  go  unanswered  to  all  eternity,  unless  they  can  find 
some  one  who  has  less  to  do,  and  more  faith  in  the  use  of 
such  answers,  than  I  have."  In  noticing  some  small  pay- 
ments which  had  been  made  to  his  mother  in  England,  he 
says: — "  I  hope  the  Society  will  not  make  any  allowance  to 
my  mother  unasked.  I  hope  and  believe  she  does  not 
want.  I  wish  to  die  leaving  the  Mission  as  much  in  my 
debt  as  possible ;  so  that  I  may  die  poor,  having  received 
nothing  of  the  Mission  but  food  and  raiment.  Hitherto, 
I  have  spent  my  private  property  to  do  this,  and  no  one 
shall  stop  my  boasting  in  all  Asia."  To  understand  the 
character  of  this  remark,  it  must  be  remembered  that  at 
this  time  he  was  contributing  all  the  profits  of  the  Press 
to  the  Mission,  and  receiving  from  it  in  return  a  pittance 
not  sufficient  to  cover  his  personal  expenses,  for  which 
he  was  obliged  to  encroach  on  the  little  fund  he  brought 
with  him  from  England.  In  the  same  journal  he  records 
that  his  two  colleagues  "  were  contributing  2400/.  a  year 
to  the  Mission,  receiving  from  it  only  their  food  and  a 
trifle  of  pocket-money  for  apparel." — As  it  regards  the 
progress  of  conversion,  this  year  of  troubles  does  not  ap- 
pear to  have  been  favourable  to  the  increase  of  the 
Church.  Mr.  Chamberlain  baptized  two  natives  at  Cutwa, 
but  only  two  others  were  baptized  at  Serampore. 

The  hostility  to  the  Mission,  which  was  lulled  for  ten 

months,  was   renewed  soon  after  the  arrival  of  Lord 

Minto,  who  landed  in  Calcutta  on  the  3 1  st  of  July, 

G^crno?.       and  received  the  office  of  Governor-General  from 

General. 

Sir  George  Barlow.  Lord  Cornwallis,  during 
his  brief  tenure  of  office,  had  laid  the  foundation  of  a 
"  system  of  pacification,"  intended  to  restrain  for  ever  the 
progress  of  British  supremacy  in  India.  Sir  George  Bar- 
low, who  had  most  cordially  seconded  Lord  Wellesley's 
bold,  and,  as  it  was  deemed,  aggressive,  policy,  now  sup- 
ported the  opposite  policy  of  his  successor ;  and,  on  sue- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1307.]  HISTOBY  0*  THE  SEBAMPORE  MISSION.  305 

ceeding  temporarily  to  the  office  of  Governor-General, 
endeavoured  to  carry  it  out  with  zeal.  The  Court  of 
Directors  were  charmed  with  his  proceedings,  and  became 
anxious  to  secure  him  the  permanent  appointment  to  that 
post.  When  the  intelligence  of  the  death  of  Lord  Corn- 
wallis  reached  England,  Mr.  Pitt  was  in  his  grave  and 
the  Whigs  were  in  office.  Lord  Minto  was  the  new  Pre- 
sident of  the  Board  of  Control ;  and  at  the  first  interview 
with  him  and  Lord  Grenville,  the  Chairman  and  Deputy- 
Chairman  urged  the  claims  of  Sir  George  Barlow  to  the 
vacant  office.  They  concurred  in  the  recommendation, 
but  desired  it  to  be  expressly  understood  that,  uninformed 
as  they  must  be,  at  the  first  moment  of  their  entrance  into 
office,  of  what  might  enable  them  to  form  a  final  judgment 
regarding  the  affairs  and  the  Government  of  India,  they 
must  not  be  considered  as  precluding  themselves  from  a 
subsequent  revision  of  the  subject.  A  commission  was 
therefore  sent  out  to  Sir  George  Barlow;  but  it  had 
scarcely  been  despatched  when  Lord  Lauderdale  came 
forward  as  a  candidate  for  the  office,  backed  by  all  the 
power  of  the  Administration.  The  Court  felt  the  strongest 
repugnance  to  him :  though  possessed  of  abilities,  informa- 
tion, and  application  to  business,  his  friends  fully  acknow- 
ledged that  he  had  been  "  lax  in  his  political,  religious, 
and  domestic  relations."  The  Court  refused  to#  rescind 
the  appointment  which  had  been  already  made,  more, 
perhaps,  from  opposition  to  Lord  Lauderdale  than  from 
attachment  to  Sir  George.  The  Ministry,  perceiving  that 
their  credit,  in  public  estimation,  was  committed  in  the 
contest,  determined  to  bring  into  the  field  the  power  which 
the  law  had  vested  in  the  Crown,  but  which  had  never 
yet  been  exercised ;  and,  by  a  royal  mandate,  revoked  the 
commission  which  had  been  sent  to  Sir  George  Barlow. 
The  Court,  however,  persisted  in  refusing  to  nominate 
Lord  Lauderdale;  but  the  warmth  of  their  predilection 
for  their  own  nominee  had  been  abated,  in  no  small 
degree,  by  the  offensive  regulation  which  he  had  passed 
vol.  i.  x 


Digitized  by 


Google 


306  5ISTOEY  OP  THE  SERAMPORB  MISSION.      [Chap.  VI. 

after  the  retirement  of  Lord  Wellesley,  to  connect  the  Go- 
vernment of  India  with  the  temple  of  Juggernauth,  which 
so  disgusted  the  India  House  as,  in  the  opinion  of  one  of 
the  most  eminent  members  of  the  Court,  "  to  influence 
his  early  removal  from  his  high  office."  After  several 
weeks  of  contention  between  the  two  powers  to  whom  the 
Government  of  India  had  been  confided  by  the  wisdom  of 
Parliament,  the  Board  gave  up  Lord  Lauderdale,  and  the 
Court  accepted  Lord  Minto.  As  some  compensation  for 
the  disappointment  of  this  supersession,  Sir  George  Bar- 
low was  invested  with  the  riband  of  the  Bath,  and  ap- 
pointed Governor  of  Madras,  from  which  post  the  Court 
of  Directors  had  just  expelled  Lord  William  Bentinck, 
because  he  had  the  misfortune  to  be  Governor  of  Madras 
when  the  Vellore  mutiny  occurred.  Sir  George's  indis- 
cretion in  the  administration  of  that  Presidency  soon 
brought  on  a  mutiny,  even  more  serious  than  that  of 
Vellore  —  a  mutiny  of  the  British  officers  against  their 
own  Government ;  and  all  the  hopes  of  a  peerage,  which 
he  had  been  cherishing,  were  at  once  blasted,  and  he  re- 
tired into  obscurity  in  England,  where  he  died  some  years 
back  at  a  very  advanced  age. 

Lord  Minto  had  been  one  of  the  managers  appointed 
by  the  House  of  Commons  to  conduct  the  impeachment 
Lord  Mtnto't  °f  Warren  Hastings,  and  he  was  subsequently 
character.  employed  in  the  prosecution  of  Sir  Elijah  Im- 
pey,  the  Chief  Justice  of  Bengal.  When  the  Whigs  came 
into  power  in  1806,  he  was  selected  for  the  office  of  Pre- 
sident of  the  Board  of  Control.  These  engagements  had 
given  him  an  interest  in  India,  and  some  little  knowledge 
of  its  affairs.  He  had  also  been  Governor  of  Corsica,  and 
the  British  Representative  at  the  Court  of  Vienna.  He 
was,  perhaps,  as  fit  for  the  office  of  Governor-General  as  a 
statesman  without  first-rate  abilities,  or  a  competent  know- 
ledge of  Indian  affairs,  could  be  .expected  to  prove.  He  was 
a  man  of  cultivated  mind  and  classical  taste,  and  disposed 
to   encourage  literary   undertakings.     As  regarded  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1807.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPOBB  MISSION.  307 

evangelisation  of  India,  his  ideas  probably  coincided  with 
those  of  the  great  Whig  leader,  now  at  the  head  of  the 
Ministry,  who  had  declared  in  Parliament  fourteen  years 
before,  that  he  considered  all  schemes  of  proselytism  as 
wrong  in  themselves  and  as  productive,  in  most  cases,  of 
abuse  and  political  mischief.  Unhappily  for  the  Seram- 
pore  missionaries,  the  first  intelligence  he  received  on  his 
arrival  in  India,  as  he  landed  at  Madras  on  his  way  to 
Calcutta,  was  the  report  of  the  massacre  at  Vellore.  At 
that  Presidency  he  imbibed  the  impression,  then  predomi- 
nant, that  this  portentous  calamity  was  to  be  attributed 
to  an  indiscreet  tamperipg  with  the  religious  prejudices 
of  the  natives,  and,  more  especially,  with  those  of  the 
Mahomedan  soldiery.  At  Calcutta,  this  persuasion  was 
strengthened  by  the  clamorous  assertions  of  the  most 
influential  functionaries  of  Government,  who  likewise  as- 
cribed the  mutiny  to  religious  impulses.  His  mind  was 
thus  prepared  to  receive  with  confidence  the  representa- 
tions of  the  anti-missionary  party,  of  the  danger  of  "  any 
interference  with  the  religious  prejudices  of  the  people," 
and  of  the  necessity  of  restraining  missionary  efforts. 
An  indefinite  idea  of  the  imminent  peril  which  threatened 
the  empire  from  this  source,  took  complete  possession 
of  his  mind,  at  a  time  when  he  was  necessarily  obliged  to 
lean  on  the  experience  of  others ;  and  an  occasion  was 
soon  presented  for  the  exercise  of  these  feelings. 

A  pamphlet,  which  had  issued  from  the  Mission  press 
at  Serampore  some  months  previously,  had  just  fallen  into 
the  hands  of  one  of  the  secretaries  to  Govern-  An  obnoxious 
ment,  and  Dr.  Carey  was  required  to  attend  o^iuon  droo! 
the  office  of  the  chief  secretary,  Mr.  Thomas 
Brown,  on  the  2nd  of  September,  1807,  where  he  also 
met  Mr.  Edmonstone,  the  secretary  in  the  Secret  and 
Political  department,  and  the  chief  mover  in  the  transac- 
tions which  followed.  Mr.  Edmonstone  was  one  of  the 
ablest  members  of  the  Government ;  he  was  gifted  with  a 
sound  and  solid  judgment,  and  possessed  of  official  expe- 

x  2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


308  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  VI. 

rience  surpassed  by  none,  and  equalled  by  few.  He  had 
been  twenty-four  years  in  the  public  service,  and  was 
perfectly  master  of  the  system  of  Indian  Government 
as  it  had  been  gradually  matured,  and  of  the  mode  in 
which  it  was  deemed  advisable  to  work  it.  He  was 
a  statesman  of  his  own  age,  scarcely  in  advance  of  it,  but 
still  a  statesman  and  not  a  mere  civilian.  Though  kind 
and  generous  in  his  disposition,  he  was  thoroughly  imbued 
with  the  principles  of  Indian  despotism,  which  he  con- 
sidered necessary  to  the  existence  of  our  dominion  ;  and 
his  mind  was  also  strongly  impressed,  at  least  at  the 
present  juncture,  with  the  conviction  that  no  attempt 
to  convert  the  natives  could  be  made  without  danger. 
That  his  proceedings  on  the  present  occasion,  however 
much  they  were  to  be  regretted,  arose  from  conscien- 
tious and  patriotic  motives  is  testified  by  the  whole  of 
his  subsequent  conduct,  when  the  alarms  of  the  day  had 
subsided.  At  this  meeting  at  the  secretary's  office,  Dr. 
Carey  was  asked  whether  he  was  cognisant  of  the  pub- 
lication of  a  pamphlet  at  the  Serampore  press,  contain- 
ing strictures  on  Mahomedanism  and  its  founder,  which 
had  been  circulated  among  the  inhabitants  of  the  Presi- 
dency. Dr.  Carey  stated,  that  although  he  could  not  take 
on  himself  to  assert  that  no  such  pamphlet  had  issued 
from  the  press,  yet  he  was  scarcely  aware  of  its  existence. 
Mr.  Edmonstone  then  dwelt  on  the  character  of  the  tract, 
and  read  a  translation  of  it,  which  had  been  made  for  the 
information  of  Government,  and  detailed  the  circumstances 
connected  with  its  discovery.  The  son  of  a  Mogul 
merchant  in  Calcutta  having  received  a  copy  of  it,  had 
given  it  to  the  Moonshee  of  Mr.  Matthew  Lumsden,  the 
Arabic  and  Persian  professor  in  the  College,  with  a 
request  that  he  would  draw  up  a  reply  to  it.  The  Moon- 
shee placed  it  in  the  hands  of  his  master,  who  happened  to 
be  the  brother  of  the  member  of  council  who  had  suc- 
ceeded Mr.  Udny,  and  it  was  thus  brought  under  the 
notice  of  the  political  secretary.    Mr.  Edmonstone  pro- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1807.]  HISTORY  OP  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  309 

ceeded  to  remark  on  those  parts  of  the  pamphlet  which 
were  considered  inflammatory  and  dangerous.  Dr.  Carey 
replied,  that  he  by  no  means  approved  of  the  use  of  abusive 
language  in  reference  to  the  religion  of  Mahomed,  or  its 
founder ;  that  no  good  could  result  from  it,  because  it  was 
calculated  not  to  convince,  but  to  irritate  an  opponent, 
and  that  such  was  not  the  practice  of  the  missionaries  in 
their  intercourse  with  the  heathen.  He  assured  Mr. 
Edmonstone  that  they  were  desirous,  in  all  things,  to  con- 
form to  the  wishes  of  Government ;  and  he  expressed  his 
earnest  hope  that  it  was  not  the  intention  of  the  British 
authorities  to  prohibit  them  from  labouring  for  the  con- 
version of  the  natives  by  the  only  means  they  were  dis- 
posed to  use — fair  argument  and  persuasion.  The  secretary 
said  he  was  not  authorised  to  state  the  wishes  of  Govern- 
ment on  this  point,  but  as  far  as  he  was  able  to  judge, 
Government,  as  the  gufcrdian  of  the  public  safety,  would 
consider  it  incumbent  to  adopt  such  measures  as  were 
necessary  to  counteract  whatever  tended  to  endanger  that 
safety.  Dr.  Carey  then  voluntarily  engaged,  if  it  was 
considered  necessary,  to  submit  for  the  approval  of  Go- 
vernment whatever  publication  it  was  proposed  to  issue 
from  the  Serampore  press,  to  which  the  secretary  replied, 
with  some  hauteur,  that  he  was  not  authorised  to  signify 
either  .the  acceptance  or  rejection  of  such  a  proposal.  Dr. 
Carey  then  withdrew,  after  having  assured  Mr.  Edmonstone 
that  measures  would  be  immediately  adopted  to  suppress 
the  pamphlet  which  had  appeared  obnoxious  to  Govern- 
ment. 

Dr.  Carey  transmitted  a  report  of  this  conversation 
without  delay  to  Serampore,  and  desired  the  fullest  expla- 
nation of  the  circumstances  connected  with  the  ^  „ 
pamphlet.  He  learned  from  the  reply  of  his  JJJSFSElX: 
brethren,  that  they  had  already  been  made  ac-  pore' 
quainted  with  the  displeasure  of  Government.  Lord 
Minto  had  forwarded  to  Col.  Krefting,  the  Governor  of 
Serampore,  a  translation  of  the  pamphlet,  with  a  letter 

x  3 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


310  HISTORY  OF  THE  8ERAMPORE  MISSION.       [Chap.  VI. 

stating  that  its  style  and  tenor  could  produce  no  other 
effect  than  to  irritate  the  minds  and  inflame  the  zeal  of 
the  Mahomedans ;  that  their  duty,  as  guardians  of  the 
public  safety,  would  alone  require  them  to  prevent  the 
diffusion  of  such  a  publication,  but  that  an  additional 
obligation  was  imposed  on  them  by  the  necessity  of  main- 
taining  the  faith,  repeatedly  pledged  under  the  express 
injunctions  of  the  Legislature  of  England,  to  leave  their 
native  subjects  in  the  full,  free,  and  undisturbed  exercise  of 
their  religion.  The  letter  stated  that  Government  had  not 
determined,  as  yet,  on  the  ulterior  measures  to  be  pursued 
to  preserve  the  public  tranquillity  and  vindicate  the  national 
faith ;  but,  as  an  object  of  immediate  urgency,  they  re- 
quested that  the  further  distribution  of  the  inflammatory 
pamphlet  should  be  interdicted,  that  the  missionaries 
should  surrender  all  the  copies  left,  and  state  in  what 
manner  and  to  what  extent  it  had  fceen  circulated.  This 
public  despatch  was  communicated  by  Col.  Krefting  to 
the  missionaries,  who  expressed  their  extreme  regret  that 
any  publication  should  have  issued  from  their  press  calcu- 
lated to  irritate  the  minds  of  the  natives.  They  explained 
that  about  three  months  before,  they  had  delivered  to  a 
Mahomedan  Moonshee  who  had  embraced  Christianity,  a 

short  abstract  of  the  life  of  Mahomet,  in  the 
Jfhu?p^S£^  Bengalee    language,    taken    almost    verbatim 

from  the  preliminary  dissertation  of  Sale's 
Koran,  to  be  translated  into  Persian.  The  confidence  they 
reposed  in  the  Moonshee,  induced  them  to  put  the  trans- 
lation to  press  without  a  previous  revision,  and  they  now 
found,  to  their  regret,  that  he  had  foisted  in  epithets 
which  did  not  exist  in  the  original, —  designating  Mahomet 
a  tyrant, —  and  had  also  materially  altered  the  character 
of  the  tract  by  the  introduction  of  remarks,  with  the  zeal 
of  a  new  convert,  which  were  calculated  to  give  umbrage  to 
the  Mahomedans.  They  remarked  that  although  this  cir- 
cumstance did  not  exonerate  them,  in  the  smallest  degree, 
from  the  responsibility  of  the  publication,  yet  it  might 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1807.]  HISTORY  OF  THE   SERAMPORE  MISSION.  311 

serve  to  vindicate  them  from  the  suspicion  of  being  indif- 
ferent to  the  public  peace.    They  stated  that  the  Christian 
religion  expressly  disallowed  the  use  of  irritating  expres- 
sions for  its  propagation,  and  that  if  they  were  to  pursue 
a  different  course  in  their  missionary  labours,  they  should 
not  only  violate  the  principle  of  attachment  to  the  British 
Government,  but  act  contrary  to  the  dictates  of  common 
sense,  and  the  genius  of  Christianity.   They  then  appealed 
to  His  Excellency's  personal  experience,  and  asked  with 
confidence  whether,  during  the  eight  years  in  which  they 
had  enjoyed  the  protection  of  the  Danish  Crown,  their 
conduct,  whether  as  individuals  or  as  a  body,  had  not  been 
in  accordance  with  these  sentiments.      They  proceeded  to 
state,  that  the  edition  of  the  obnoxious  pamphlet  consisted 
of  2000  copies,  1700  of  which  remained  in  store,  and 
were  now  sent  to  him  to  be  surrendered  to  the  British 
Government,  and  they  pledged  themselves  not  to  issue  it 
again  in  any  form.     This  letter  from  the  missionaries  was 
transmitted  to  Lord  Minto  by  Col.  Krefting,  in  conjunction 
with  one  from  himself,  in  which  he  expressed  his  earnest 
hope,  "  that  no  further  measures  would  be  taken  in  this 
matter,  as  he  was  ready,  on  the  first  application  from  the 
British  Government,  to  check  any  abuses  that  might  arise." 
The  anti-missionary  party,  now  in  the  ascendant  in  the 
council  chamber,  had  obtained  complete  possession  of  the 
mind  of  the  Governor-General  within  the  first  proceedings  of 
month  of  his  arrival  in  India;  and  the  time  Gownmen'- 
appeared  to  be  favourable  for  an  attempt  to  root  up  the 
Mission  altogether.     How  far  that  personal  indifference  to 
Christian  truth  which  a  long  residence  in  India,  amidst 
idolatrous  associations,  tended  to  create,  and  which  almost 
imperceptibly  ripened  into  hostility,   was  mixed   up  in 
the  minds  of  this  ptfrty  with  a  sincere  dread  of  the  danger 
of  missionary  zeal,  it  might  appear  invidious  to  inquire ; 
but  the  ostensible  motive  for  this  crusade  was  a  patriotic 
regard  for  the  public  safety.     The  members  of  Govern- 
ment appear  to  have  thought  that  they  had  suddenly 

x  4 


Digitized  by 


Google 


312  HISTORY  OF  THE   SEBAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  VI. 

detected  a  great  missionary  conspiracy  which  threatened 
the  loss  of  the  British  empire,  and  required  to  be  treated 
with  promptitude  and  severity.     After  Dr.  Carey's  inter- 
view with  the  secretaries  they  sent  for  Mr.  Blacquiere,  the 
magistrate,  — than  whom  there  was  only  one  man  in  Cal- 
cutta, Mr.  Martyn,  more  suitable  for  such  a  duty,  —  and 
desired  him  to  ascertain  and  report  on  the  proceedings  of 
the  missionaries  in  "disseminating  pamphlets,  and  in  meet- 
ings stated  to  be  held  in  the  town  of  Calcutta  for  the 
purpose  of  exposing  to  the  natives  the  error  of  their 
religion,  and  of  persuading  them  to  adopt  the  Christian 
faith."  Mr.  Blacquiere,  thus  placed  on  the  scent  by  Govern- 
ment, "  directed  a  brahmin  in  his  service  to  Attend  the 
missionaries,  under  a  pretended  desire  to  become  a  con- 
vert, and  to  obtain  copies  of  their  publications."     The 
brahmin  called  on  Mr.  Ward,  under  the  guise  of  an  in- 
quirer, and  obtained  eleven  pamphlets.     This  clandestine 
proceeding   towards  men   who   were  not  political  con- 
spirators, but  Christian  missionaries,  appeared  perfectly 
justifiable  in  the  eyes  of  Government,  and  was  subse- 
quently reported,  without  any  extenuation,  by  Lord  Minto 
to  the  Court  of  Directors.     The  pamphlets  which  appeared 
most  likely  to  answer  the  end  in  view  were  translated 
with  extraordinary  speed.     One  of  these,  "  The  Gospel 
Messenger,"  had  been  compiled,  as  before  stated,  by  Ram- 
bosoo,  a  half-converted  Hindoo,  and  thousands  of  copies  of 
it  had  been  circulated  in  the  last  four  years.    Another  was 
simply  a  comparison  of  the  incarnations  of  Krishnu  with 
the  actions  of  Christ,  as  the  natives  were  often  led,  by  the 
similarity  of  names,  to  confound  the  Redeemer  with  the 
Hindoo  god.  On  the  following  Sunday,  the  6th  of  September, 
Mr.  Blacquiere  sent  another  of  his  spies  to  watch  the  proceed- 
ings of  the  missionaries  in  the  little  chapel  in  the  Chitpore 
Road.     He  reported  that  an  elderly  Bengalee  arose,  and, 
after  an  allusion  to  Judistheer,  dwelt  on  the  wicked  life 
which  the  brahmins  and  other  persons  of  respectability 
led,  under  the  impulse  of  their  own  evil  inclinations. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1807.]  HISTORY  01  THE  SERAMPOBE  MISSION.  313 

He  then  questioned  the  existence  of  any  difference  between 
brahmins  and  other  men,  seeing  they  were  both  liable  to 
sin,  and  asked  why  the  soodras  and  others  should  be  re- 
quired to  expiate  their  guilt,  and  not  the  brahmins,  adding 
that  the  brahmins  could  not  forgive  sin,  and  that  the 
annual  religious  festivals  rather  served  to  produce  trans- 
gression than  to  expiate  it.  The  informer  further  reported 
that  a  European  then  ascended  the  pulpit  and  preached 
to  the  congregation,  which  consisted  of  Armenians  and 
native  Portuguese,  some  men  and  some  women,  but,  with 
the  exception  of  two  converted  natives,  there  were  neither 
Hindoos  nor  Mahomedans  in  the  room.  A  crowd  of 
natives  was  collected  at  the  door,  but  there  was  not  a 
single  person  of  respectability  among  them ;  all  whom  he 
recognised  were  living  a  disreputable  life. 

Two  days  after,  the  Supreme  Council  met  as  usual,  and 
Mr.  Edmonstone  presented  the  deposition  of  the  informer 
and  the  translation  of  the  tracts,  stating  that  Ordmofoo- 
they  contained  strictures  on  the  Hindoo  deities,  ^SSSS£tSS' 
which  tended  to  exhibit  them  in  a  hateful  and  aflbrU* 
disgusting  light,  and  dwelt  on  the  fallacy  of  the  Hindoo 
mythology,  and  exhorted  the  natives  to  embrace  Chris- 
tianity. He  also  informed  the  Council  that  two  of  the 
pamphlets,  one  in  Bengalee,  and  the  other  in  Hindoostanee, 
contained  the  same  or  similar  abuse  of  the  doctrines  of 
Mahomedanism  which  appeared  in  the  Persian  pamphlet, 
which,  however,  was  not  correct,  as  the  original  tract  was 
free  from  the  interpolations  of  the  Moonshee.  The  Council 
then  proceeded  to  deliberate  on  the  perilous  position  of 
the  British  empire  in  India,  as  disclosed  by  the  distribution 
of  tracts, —  which  had  been  circulated  for  years  with  per- 
fect impunity,  —  and  the  preaching  in  the  Chitpore  Road 
—  that  is,  "  to  a  few  Armenians  and  Portuguese,  and  a 
rabble  of  disreputable  characters,"  —  and  they  recorded 
their  solemn  conviction,  that  "  the  distribution  of  tracts, 
and  the  practice  of  preaching  to  the  multitude  were  evi- 
dently calculated  to  excite  among  the  native  subjects  of 


Digitized  by 


Google 


314  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  VI. 

the  Company  a  spirit  of  religious  jealousy  and  alarm, 
which  might  eventually  be  productive  of  the  most  serious 
evils,  and  that  Government  was  bound  by  every  con- 
sideration of  general  safety,  and  national  faith  and  honour, 
to  suppress,  within  the  limits  of  the  Company's  authority 
in  India,  treatises  and  public  preachings  offensive  to  the 
religious  persuasions  of  the  people,"  —  in  other  words,  to 
suppress  the  missionary  undertaking  altogether. 

It  was  determined,  therefore,  immediately  to  prohibit 
all  preaching  in  Calcutta  in  the  native  language,  and  to 
Preaching™,  break  up  the  Press  at  Serampore.  The  execu- 
pSr!^dto  tion  of  the  order  "  to  discontinue  the  practice 
Calcutta.  o£  preaching  in  the  house  engaged  for  that 

purpose "  was  intrusted  to  Mr.  Dowdeswell,  the  superin- 
tendent of  police,  whose  feelings  towards  the  missionaries 
were  no  secret.  At  the  same  time  the  following  letter 
was  addressed  to  Dr.  Carey,  prohibiting  those  services, 
and  desiring  that  the  Press  should  be  removed  to  Calcutta 
without  delay :  — 

*  To  the  Reverend  W.  Carey. 

"  Sib,  —  The  substance  of  your  replies  to  the  verbal  communi- 
cations which  I  had  the  honour  to  state  to  you  on  the  2nd  instant, 
by  direction  of  Government,  having  been  reported  to  the  Bight 
Honourable  the  Governor-General  in  Council,  I  am  directed  to  re- 
quest that  you  will  communicate  to  the  Society  of  Missionaries 
the  observations  and  suggestions  contained  in  this  Address. 

"  Since  the  day  of  your  attendance  at  the  Chief  Secretary's 
office,  various  pamphlets  and  treatises  in  the  Bengalee  and  Hin- 
dustani languages,  containing  strictures  on  the  religions  of  the 
Hindus  and  Mussulmans,  and  purporting  to  have  issued  from  the 
press  at  Serampore,  have  been  submitted  to  Government:  among 
them  are  two  pamphlets,  one  in  the  Bengalee,  the  other  in  the 
Hindustani  language,  addressed  exclusively  to  the  class  of  Maho- 
medans ;  containing  the  same  or  similar  abuse  of  the  doctrines, 
books,  and  founder  of  the  Mahomedan  religion,  as  is  contained 
in  the  Persian  pamphlet  from  which  I  read  to  you  a  translated 
extract. 

"  The  Governor-General  in  Council  has  also  been  informed  that 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1807.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SEBAMFORE  MISSION,  315 

the  practice  of  public  preaching  on  topics  of  that  nature,  prevails 
at  a  house  engaged  for  that  purpose  by  the  missionaries  in  the 
town  of  Calcutta. 

"  The  issue  of  publications  and  the  public  delivery  of  discourses 
of  the  nature  above  described,  are  evidently  calculated  to  produce 
consequences  in  the  highest  degree  detrimental  to  the  tranquillity 
of  the  British  dominions  in  India,  and  it  becomes  the  indispensable 
duty  of  the  British  Government  to  arrest  the  progress  of  any  pro- 
ceedings of  that  nature.  In  the  present  instance,  this  obligation  is 
enforced  by  the  necessity  of  maintaining  the  public  faith,  which, 
under  the  express  injunctions  of  the  Legislature,  has  been  repeatedly 
pledged  to  leave  the  native  subjects  of  the  Company  in  India,  in 
the  full,  free,  and  undisturbed  exercise  of  their  respective  religions. 
To  permit  the  issue  and  diffusion  of  printed  treatises,  and  the  deli- 
very of  public  discourses  in  the  languages  of  the  country,  replete 
with  the  most  direct  and  unqualified  abuse  of  the  principles  and 
tenets  of  the  religion  of  the  people,  is  manifestly  authorising  an 
opposition  to  the  full,  free,  and  undisturbed  exercise  of  it. 

"Upon  these  grounds  the  Right  Honourable  the  Governor- 
General  in  Council  deems  it  necessary  to  desire  that  the  practice 
of  preaching  at  the  house  employed  for  that  purpose  in  the  town  of 
Calcutta,  be  immediately  discontinued. 

"  The  Governor-General  in  Council  also  deems  it  his  duty  to 
prohibit  the  issue  of  any  publications  from  the  press,  superintended 
by  the  Society  of  Missionaries,  of  a  nature  offensive  to  the  religious 
prejudices  of  the  natives,  or,  directed  to  the  object  of  converting 
them  to  Christianity ;  observing,  that  whatever  may  be  the  pro- 
priety of  exposing  the  errors  of  the  Hindu  or  Mussulman  religions 
to  persons  of  those  persuasions  who  may  solicit  instruction  in  the 
doctrines  of  the  Christian  faith,  it  is  contrary  to  the  system  of  pro- 
tection which  Government  is  pledged  to  afford  to  the  undisturbed 
exercise  of  the  religions  of  the  country,  and  calculated  to  produce 
very  dangerous  effects,  to  obtrude  upon  the  general  body  of  the 
people,  by  means  of  printed  works,  exhortations  necessarily  in- 
volving an  interference  with  those  religious  tenets  which  they  con- 
sider to  be  sacred  and  inviolable. 

*  The  Governor-General  in  Council  further  observes,  that  the 
press  now  established  at  Serampore,  being  intended  for  the  pro- 
mulgation of  works  within  the  limits  of  the  Company's  dominions, 
it  is  indispensably  necessary  that  its  productions  should  be  subject 
to  the  immediate  control  of  the  officers  of  Government.  With 
this  view  I  am  directed  to  desire,  that  you  will  signify  to  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


316  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION,      [Cha*.  VI. 

missionaries  the  expectation  of  the  Governor-General  in  Council, 
that  the  press  be  transferred  to  this  Presidency,  where  alone  the 
same  control  that  is  established  over  presses  sanctioned  by  the 
Government  can  be  duly  exercised. 

"I  am  further  directed  to  desire,  that  you  will  ascertain  and 
report  to  Government  in  what  manner  and  in  what  places  the 
pamphlets  and  treatises  to  which  this  letter  refers,  or  any  other  of 
a  similar  description  which  may  not  yet  have  come  under  the  ob- 
servation of  Government,  have  been  distributed ;  and  also  that  the 
missionaries  will  employ  every  effort  in  their  power  to  withdraw 
them  from  circulation. 

"  I  have  the  honor  to  be,  &c. 

"  (Signed)    N.  B.  Edmonstone, 

"  Secretary  to  Government* 
"Fort  William,  Sth  Sept  1807." 

Well  might  Dr.  Carey  exclaim,  on  perusing  the  despatch, 
that  "  such  a  letter  was  never  written  by  any  Govern- 
Reflectioot  on  ment  before.  Roman  Catholics  have  per- 
thi.  order.  secuted  other  Christians  under  the  name  of 
heretics,  but  no  Christian  Government,  that  I  know  of, 
has  prohibited  attempts  to  spread  Christianity  among 
the  Heathen."  It  must  not  be  forgotten  that  as  soon  as 
Dr.  Carey  became  aware  of  the  alarm  which  had  been 
created  among  the  members  of  Government,  he  offered,  of 
his  own  accord,  to  submit  all  the  publications  of  the  press 
to  Government  in  future  before  they  were  issued.  There 
was,  therefore,  no  necessity  for  removing  the  press  to 
Calcutta,  as  a  security  against  the  publication  of  pam- 
phlets which  the  Government  might  consider  dangerous. 
It  was  well  known  to  the  members  of  Government  that 
the  press  was  so  essential  to  the  existence  of  the  Mission, 
that  the  removal  of  it  would  be  tantamount  to  the 
breaking  up  of  the  missionary  establishment  at  Serampore. 
It  was  to  compass  this  object  that  the  alarmists  took  ad- 
vantage of  the  Vellore  panic,  and  Lord  Minto's  inexperi- 
ence, and  his  ignorance  of  the  conduct  of  the  missionaries 
for  the  last  seven  years,  and  in  the  course  of  a  single 
week  hurried   him  onward  from  the  determination   to 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1807.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  317 

suppress  missionary  tracts,  to  the  issue  of  an  order  which 
must  have  paralysed  the  Mission  itself.  Under  the  influence 
of  these  violent  counsels,  he  was  led  to  demand  the  removal 
of  a  press,  which  the  records  of  his  own  Government  told 
him  was  under  the  protection  of  a  foreign  power.     It  is 
true  that  the  expression  used  in  Mr.  Edmonstone's  letter 
was,  that  the  Government  "expected"  the  transfer  of  the 
press  to  the  Presidency;  but  such  an  intimation  of  the 
wishes  of  a  powerful  Government,  to  one  so  feeble  as  that 
of  Serampore,  was  tantamount  to  a  demand.     Had  Lord 
Minto  allowed  himself  time  for  reflection,  he  must  have 
perceived  that  he  only  compromised  the  dignity  of  his 
own  Government  by  a  request  which  he  could  not  enforce, 
without  a  violation  of  the  law  of  nations.     He  might 
reasonably  demand  the  suppression  of  publications  which 
were   considered  likely  to   endanger  the  safety  of  the 
British  dominion,  but  the  demand  of  the  press  itself,  which 
was  decided  upon  at  a  single  sitting  of  Council,  admits  of 
no  justification,  and  is  feebly  palliated  by  a  reference  to 
the  morbid  terrors  of  the  Council  Chamber.     It  requires, 
moreover,  to  be  distinctly  remarked,  that  this  is  the  first 
instance   in   which  the  Government   of  India    brought 
forward  the  plea  of  being  bound  by  a  pledge  to  grant 
the  natives  the  undisturbed  exercise  of  their  "  respective 
religions."     No  such  pledge  was  ever  exacted  by  the  na- 
tives, of  granted  by  our  Government.     British  rule  was 
established  in  India  by  the  sword,  and  the  sword  alone ; 
and  at  no  period  were  the  conquerors  in  a  position  which 
obliged  them  to  give  pledges  to   the  conquered.      In 
accordance  with  its  own  enlightened  views,  the  British 
Government  had  voluntarily  prescribed  to  itself  certain 
principles  of  action  in    reference  to    the  religion  and 
customs  of  the  natives ;  of  its  own  free  will  had  it  granted 
to  them  the  benefit  of  religious  toleration.     To  assert  the 
existence   of  a  pledge  to  allow  the  full,  free,  and   un- 
disturbed exercise  of  the  native  religions ;  and  then  to 
maintain  that  any  "  effort  directed  to  the  object  of  con- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


318  HISTOBT   OP  THE   SERAMPORB  MISSION.      [Chap.  VI. 

verting  the  natives  to  Christianity,"  was  a  violation  of 
that  pledge,  was,  in  fact,  to  assert  that  Government  had 
solemnly  pledged  itself  to  resist  every  effort  to  Christianise 
the  country,  —  which  is  simply  absurd. 

The  order  regarding  the  press  reached  Serampore  on 
the  11th  of  September,  and  filled  the  minds  of  the  mis- 
Natuna  remit  of  sionaries  with  dismay.  They  felt  that  the 
this  order.  transfer  of  it  to  Calcutta  must  break  up  the 
Mission.  The  mere  expense  of  living  in  the  metropolis 
would  have  been  ruinous.  The  Mission  would,  moreover, 
have  been  deprived  of  the  protection  of  a  foreign  and 
friendly  power,  which,  at  the  time,  was  doubly  valuable, 
and  placed  under  the  control  of  a  police,  worked  by  Mr. 
Dowdeswell  and  Mr.  Blacquiere.  As  the  avowed  object 
of  removing  the  press  was  to  repress  all  attempts  to 
convert  the  natives,  all  the  movements  of  the  missionaries 
would  have  been  watched  with  jealousy,  and  exposed  to 
constant  interruption.  The  Mission  premises  would  have 
been  constantly  besieged  by  Mr.  Blacquiere's  spies.  On 
the  arrival  of  the  public  letter,  therefore,  they  held  a 
meeting  to  supplicate  the  Divine  guidance  at  this  crisis. 
They  then  waited  on  the  Governor  with  it,  and  he  ex- 
pressed no  little  surprise  that  the  British  authorities 
should  have  thought  fit  to  issue  such  an  order,  before 
they  had  received  his  reply  to  their  communication.  He 
was  justly  offended  that  the  missionaries  should  have 
been  dealt  with  as  though  they  were  living  within  the 
British  jurisdiction,  and  that  a  communication  so  deeply 
affecting  the  independence  of  the  settlement,  should  not 
have  been  made  in  the  first  instance  to  him.  He  was 
indignant  that  Lord  Minto  should  interfere  with  a  mis- 
sionary establishment  which  the  King  of  Denmark  had 
taken  under  his  especial  protection.  From  the  Governor's 
residence  they  proceeded  to  Aldeen,  to  consult  Mr.  Brown, 
and  it  was  resolved  that  Dr.  Carey  should  simply  acknow- 
ledge the  receipt  of  Mr.  Edmonstone's  letter,  and  that  a 
memorial  should  hereafter  be  presented  to  the  Governor- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1807.]  HISTORY  OF  THE   SERAMPORE  MISSION.  319 

General  in  Council.  The  next  day  Mr.  Ward  went,  as 
usual,  to  Calcutta,  when  the  Armenian  friends  called  on 
him  to  inquire  how  they  should  act.  He  stated  that  he 
and  his  colleagues  were  positively  forbidden  to  preach  to 
them,  and  that  they  must  conduct  the  services  among 
themselves.  Mr.  Ward  observes  on  these  occurrences,  in 
his  journal,  that  "  the  Doorga-poojah,  the  most  magnifi- 
cent idolatrous  festival  in  Calcutta,  would,  in  a  few 
days,  be  celebrated  with  pomp  and  splendour;  that  all 
public  offices  would  be  closed,  and  public  business  sus- 
pended for  eight  or  ten  days ;  and  that  the  mansions  of 
opulent  natives  would  be  thrown  open  for  the  reception  of 
European  guests,  to  witness  the  dances  before  the  idol ; 
and  that  hundreds  of  splendid  processions  would  be 
paraded  through  the  Chitpore  road,  and  pass  in  front  of 
the  house  of  Christian  prayer,  which  had  just  been  closed 
by  the  orders  of  a  Christian  Government." 

A  week  after  the  date  of  Mr.  Edmonstone's  letter  to 
Dr.  Carey,  a  communication,  signed  by  Lord  Minto  and 
the  two  members  of  council,  was  sent  to  Col.  Procwdingiof 
Krefting,  acknowledging  with  thanks  the  mea-  *• miMl0Mriw- 
sures  he  had  adopted,  in  conformity  with  their  request, 
for  the  suppression  of  publications  obnoxious  to  the  reli- 
gious persuasions  of  the  natives  of  India.  They  proceeded 
to  acquaint  him  that  they  had  been  subsequently  informed 
of  the  distribution  of  other  pamphlets  and  books,  with 
strictures  on  the  religion  of  the  Hindoos  and  Mahomedans ; 
and  that  it  appeared  "  obviously  regular  and  highly  ex- 
pedient that  the  press  of  the  missionaries  should  be  placed 
under  the  immediate  control  of  the  Government  of  India." 
A  copy  of  the  letter  addressed  to  Dr.  Carey  was  enclosed, 
and  the  Governor-General  trusted  that  "  his  Excellency 
would  not  only  concur  in  the  expediency  of  the  measure 
they  had  adopted,  but  withhold  his  consent  to  the  esta- 
blishment of  any  other  press  under  the  Danish  flag." 
Such  were  the  terms  of  this  arrogant  dictation  to  the 
representative  of  an  independent  European  sovereign.   The 


Digitized  by 


Google 


320  HISTORY  OP  THE  SBRAMPORB  MISSION.      [Chaf.  VI. 

letter  concluded  with  the  gratuitous  assertion  that  the 
missionaries  had  themselves  acknowledged  that  other  works 
in  the  native  languages  had  issued  from  their  press,  besides 
the  Persian  pamphlet,  the  contents  of  which  were  pre- 
viously unknown  to  them — an  acknowledgment  they  had 
never  made.     This  letter  Col.  Krefting  immediately  com- 
municated to  the  missionaries,  who  held  another  prayer- 
meeting,  at  which  Dr.  Carey  was  so  deeply  affected,  that 
"he  wept  like  a   child."      They  then  waited   on   the 
Governor,  and  he  assured  them  of  his  determination  not 
to  allow  the  press  to  be  removed,  which,  indeed,  he  could 
not  have  permitted  without  incurring  the  condemnation  of 
his  own  Court.     He  stated,  that  if  the  British  Government 
resorted  to  any  measures  of  compulsion,  he  would  strike 
his  flag,  and  leave  the  settlement  in  its  possession,  but 
that  he  would  endeavour,  in  the  first  place,  to  procure  a 
reversal  of  the  order  by  conciliation.     Dr.  Carey  and  Mr. 
Marshman  agreed  to  leave  the  matter  in  his  hands,  and  to 
refrain  from  any  further  communication  with  Government. 
But  Mr.  Ward  did  not  consider  this  determination  wise  or 
prudent,  and  immediately  sent  his  brethren  the  following 
minute  of  his  views: — "  I  have  a  great  deal  of  hesitation 
in  my  mind  respecting  our  remaining  in  sullen  silence 
after  the  English  Government  have  addressed  us  through 
Brother  Carey  and  the  Governor.    As  it  respects  ourselves, 
even  if  we  are  not  compelled  to  go  to  Calcutta  with  our 
press,  the  having  them  as  our  avowed  and  exasperated 
enemies  is  no  small  calamity.     They  may  deprive  us  of 
Brother  Carey's  salary,  with  which  we  can  hardly  get  on  now, 
and  without  which  we  must  put  an  end  to  the  translations, 
and  go  to  jail  in  debt.    They  can  shut  up  the  new  meeting 
at  Calcutta ;  they  can  stop  the  circulation  of  our  Gram- 
mars, Dictionaries,  and  everything  issued  from  this  press 
in  their  dominions ;  they  can  prohibit  our  entering  their 
territories.     As  it  respects  Col.  Krefting,  we  ought  to 
deprecate  the  idea  of  embroiling  him  with  the  English 
Government,  if  we  can  possibly  avoid  it.     I  think,  there- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1807.]  HlSTORr  OF  THtf  SEBAMPOEE  MISSION.  321 

fore,  as  we  can  now  officially  through  him  address  the 
British  Government,  we  should  entreat  their  clemency, 
and  endeavour  to  soften  them-  Tender  words,  with  the 
consciences  of  men  on  our  side,  go  a  long  Way,  We  can 
tell  them  that  to  take  the  press  to  Calcutta  would  involve 
us  in  a  heavy  and  unbearable  expense,  and  break  up  our 
family,  and  that  we  will  give  them  every  security  they 
would  wish,  by  subjecting  our  press  to  the  absolute  control 
and  inspection  of  the  Government  here ;  nay,  that  we  are 
willing  to  do  everything  they  wish  us,  except  that  of  re- 
nouncing our  work  and  character  as  Ministers  of  the 
Saviour  of  the  world.  To  this  Col.  Krefting  can  add 
what  he  likes.  If  they  listen  to  this  we  are  secured,  with 
all  the  advantages  of  their  sufferance.  If  they  are  obsti- 
nate, we  are  still  at  Serampore.  I  entreat  you,  dear 
brethren,  to  weigh  these  things,  and  give  them  all  the 
attention  that  our  awful  circumstances  require." 

Mr.  Ward's  proposal  met  with  the  approbation  of  his 
colleagues,  and  it  was  resolved  to  present  a  supplicatory 
memorial  to  the  Governor-General.  At  the  Intervlew  with 
same  time,  Mr.  Ward  renewed,  with  much  im-  UKd  Mlnto- 
portunity,  the  advice  he  had  previously  given  them  to  seek  a 
personal  interview  with  Lord  Minto,  whom,  as  yet,  they  had 
not  been  introduced  to.  He  urged  that  the  Moravian  mis- 
sionaries  never  omitted  to  cultivate  a  good  understanding 
with  the  Governors,  wherever  their  Missions  were  planted, 
by  making  themselves  personally  known  to  them,  and  ex- 
plaining their  plans  of  operation.  Thus,  said  he,  preju- 
dices are  disarmed,  and  the  designs  of  enemies  baffled. 
On  the  present  occasion,  a  personal  communication  with 
Lord  Minto  would  dispose  him  to  receive  the  memorial 
more  favourably.  While  they  were  deliberating  on  this 
proposal,  they  received  a  visit  from  Dr.  Leyden,  the  re- 
nowned orientalist,  and,  before  his  arrival  in  India,  the 
friend  and  literary  associate  of  Walter  Scott.  He  came 
out  on  the  medical  establishment  of  Madras,  and  proceeded 
to  Calcutta  on  the  invitation  of  Lord  Minto,  in  whose 

VOL.  I.  Y 


Digitized  by 


Google 


322  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORB  MISSION.      [Cill*.  TL 

estimation  he  stood  high,  and  whose  confidence  he  to  a 
certain  extent  enjoyed,     A  congeniality  of  literary  tastes 
had  led  to  a  very  intimate  intercourse  with  Mr.  Marshman. 
The  missionaries  explained  their  difficulties  to  him,  and 
sought  his  counsel,  and  he  very  warmly  supported  Mr. 
Ward's  advice,  urging  that  Dr.  Carey  and  Mr.  Marshman 
should  wait  in  person  on  Lord  Minto,  on  the  next  day,  as 
the  translators  of  the  Ramayun,  and  present  him  with  a  copy 
of  that  work.     Dr.  Leyden  remarked,  that  if  there  should 
not  be  an  opportunity  of  introducing  the  subject  of  their 
present  embarrassments  at  this  interview,  still  the  circum- 
stance of  their  going  into  the  presence  of  the  Governor- 
General  would  show  him  that  they  did  not  desire  to  conceal 
themselves  from  any  consciousness  of  guilt.  Mr.  Marshman 
immediately  accompanied  Dr.  Leyden  to  Calcutta,  and  con- 
sulted Dr.  Carey,  who  highly  approved  of  the  proposal  of 
a  personal  visit.      Lord  Minto  received  them  the  next 
day  with  his  usual  affability,  and  they  soon  felt   them- 
selves at  ease  in  the  presence  of  the  man  on  whom  their 
fate  depended.     Dr.  Carey  asked  his  lordship's  acceptance 
of  a  copy  of  the  Ramayun,  which  they  had  translated  into 
English,  and  likewise  offered  him  any  other  of  the  lite- 
rary works  which  had  issued  from  their  press.      Mr. 
Marshman  then  broke  the  subject  of  their  visit,  by  asking 
permission  to  present  a  private  memorial  to  him.     Lord 
Minto  drew  back  at  a  request   which  recalled  to   his 
mind  the  letter  to  the  Governor  of  Serampore,  regarding 
the  Serampore  missionaries,  which  he  had  signed  only  a 
few  days  before,  and  he  coloured  up  for  a  moment,  but  did 
not  hesitate  to  assure  them  that  he  would  receive  it.     The 
ice  of  officiality  having  been  thus  broken,  the  conversation 
became  less  reserved.     They  explained  to  Lord  Minto  the 
origin  and  progress  of  the  Mission,  the  degree  of  suc- 
cess which  had  attended  their  labours,  and  the  course  of 
action  they  had  adopted,  and  delicately  brought  the  con- 
versation round  to  the  object  of  the  audience — the  ruin 
with  which  all  their  missionary  plans  were  threatened  by 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1807.]  HISTOBY  OF  THE  SBBAMPOBB  MISSION,  323 

the  order  to  transfer  the  press  to  Calcutta,  Lord  Minto 
asked  a  number  of  questions,  assured  them  that  he  felt  no 
hostility  to  them  or  to  their  undertaking,  and  said  that  he 
thought  the  conversion  of  the  natives,  in  a  quiet  way,  a 
desirable  object,  but  feared  there  was  danger  of  provoking 
the  Mahomedans.  He  mentioned  that  he  had  heard  of  the 
Mission  through  Lord  Spencer,  and  observed  that  it  was 
expected  that  missionaries  should  have  a  little  enthusiasm 
in  them,  and  feel  more  warmly  on  the  subject  of  converting 
the  heathen  than  worldly  men ;  and,  moreover,  that  they 
should  be  able  sometimes  to  bear  the  frowns  of  men  in 
power.  Twenty  minutes  were  thus  passed  in  friendly  con- 
versation. As  they  rose  to  depart,  he  said  they  must  be 
aware  that  a  private  paper,  such  as  they  intended  to  send 
him,  could  not  be  brought  on  the  recoils  of  Government, 
but  he  promised  to  peruse  it  with  attention,  and  to  place 
it  in  the  hands  of  his  colleagues.  They  left  him  with  a 
strong  hope  that  their  object  was  already  half  gained. 
They  had  apparently  counteracted  the  impression  which 
the  anti-missionary  party  had  created  in  his  mind,  — that 
they  were  a  body  of  wild  fanaties,  determined  to  push  the 
conversion  of  the  natives,  though  it  might  set  India  in  a 
flame,  and  whom  it  was  necessary  therefore  to  place  under 
the  most  vigorous  restrictions.  They  had  obtained  per- 
mission to  present  a  memorial  which  Lord  Minto  had 
engaged  to  peruse  before  he  went  to  the  Council  Board, 
and  it  was  hoped  he  would  enter  on  the  discussion  of  the 
question  with  feelings  not  unfavourably  disposed  to  them. 
Mr.  Marshman  returned  to  Serampore,  and  sat  down  to 
the  preparation  of  the  memorial  on  which  the  existence  of 
the  Mission  was  supposed  to  hang.    He  felt  the 

,  p     .1  •   •  i  •    i       ■  Memorial  of  the 

importance  of  the  cnsis,  and  weighed  every  *iuiooarieito 

*  -  .-it  GoTernment. 

argument  and  expression  with  extraordinary 
care;  and  the  document  may  be  said  to  present  a  favourable 
example  of  the  skill  with  which  he  could  handle  a  difficult 
question.  It  began  by  saying  that  the  missionaries  entreated 
permission  to  submit  to  him  a  full  and  unreserved  state- 

t2 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


324  HISTORY  OP  THE  SERAMPOBE  MISSION.      [Cha*.  VI. 

ment  of  their  situation,  circumstances,  and  views,  humbly 
casting  themselves  on  his  lordship's  clemency,  and   im- 
ploring such  relief  as  his  candour  and  wisdom  and  attach- 
ment to  the  Protestant  religion  might  suggest.      The 
memorialists  then  described  the  formation  of  the  Baptist 
Missionary  Society  in  England  in  1792,  the  arrival  of  Mr. 
Carey  and  Mr.  Thomas,  the  settlement  of  the  Mission  in 
Serampore  under  the  patronage  of  the  King  of  Denmark, 
the  translation  and  printing  of  the  Scriptures  in  Bengalee, 
the  distribution  of  tracts  and  pamphlets,  and  their  mis- 
sionary itineraries.     They  then  alluded  to  the  kindness 
they  had  experienced  from  Lord  Wellesley,  and  the  satis- 
faction he  had  expressed  that  the  press  was  devoted  to  the 
printing  of  the  Scriptures  and  religious  works,  and  that 
their  labours  had  been  attended  with  success.    They  spoke 
also  of  the  gracious  manner  in  which  His  Majesty  George 
the  Third  had  been  pleased  to  accept  a  copy  of  the  Ben- 
galee New  Testament  and  Pentateuch.     They  remarked, 
that    in   the   course   of  their   missionary  labours   they 
had  baptised  a  hundred  natives,  of  whom  twelve  were 
Brahmins   and    sixteen    of   the  writer  caste,   and  five 
Mahomedans.     They  went  on  to  remark  that  highly  as 
they  esteemed  the  principle  which  guaranteed  to  the 
natives  the  full,  free,   and  undisturbed  exercise  of  their 
different  religions  and  opinions,  they  were  unconscious 
of  having  violated  it,  inasmuch  as  the  most  solemn  en- 
gagements of  this  nature  were  never  supposed  to  preclude 
religious  discussions ;  and  they  believed  that  a  Protestant 
nation,  however  averse  to  coercion,  could  not  fail  to  desire 
that  its  heathen  subjects  might  receive  instruction  in  some 
safe  and  prudent  manner.     The  memorial  then  adverted 
to  the  confirmation  these  views  received  from  the  pro- 
vision made  in  the  Charter  of  1698,  which  directed  that 
the  ministers  of  the  Honourable  Company  should  learn 
the  Portuguese  and  native  languages,  to  enable  them  to 
instruct  the  Gentoos  in  the  Christian  religion ;  as  well  as  to 
the  approbation  given  by  George  the  First  to  the  labours 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1807.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION,  325 

of  Zigenbalg  and  Grundler  on  the  Coast.  They  brought 
forward  the  still  more  recent  instance  of  the  cenotaph 
which  the  Court  of  Directors  had  ordered  to  be  erected  in 
the  Settlement  Church  at  Madras,  to  the  memory  of  the 
most  eminent  of  modern  missionaries,  Schwartz ;  directing 
that  the  inscription  should  be  translated  into  the  different 
languages  of  the  country,  in  order  that  their  admiration 
of  his  character  might  be  universally  known.  With  re- 
gard to  the  little  chapel  in  the  Chitpore  road  they  stated 
that  it  had  been  opened  at  the  request  of  some  Armenians 
and  Portuguese,  who  were  unable  to  receive  Christian 
instruction,  except  through  the  medium  of  Bengalee, 
and  they  deeply  regretted  to  find  that  a  compliance  with 
their  request  had  been  represented  as  an  attempt  to  in* 
flame  the  minds  of  the  natives  and  to  disturb  the  public 
tranquillity,  and  had  thus  led  to  the  closing  of  its  doors. 
Reverting  to  the  danger  which  had  been  apprehended 
from  the  productions  of  their  press,  they  enumerated  all 
the  pamphlets  which  had  issued  from  it,  describing  their 
contents  and  character,  and  they  explained  more  par- 
ticularly the  circumstances  under  which  the  obnoxious 
epithets  had  crept  into  the  Persian  tract,  to  which  the 
attention  of  Government  had  been  directed.  They  further 
stated  that  they  were  under  engagements  to  the  public 
for  the  translation  and  printing  of  the  Scriptures  in  six 
languages,  that  the  premises  and  establishment  at  Seram- 
pore  had  cost  60,000  rupees,  which  must  be,  in  a  great 
measure,  sacrificed  by  the  transfer  of  the  press  to  Calcutta, 
where  they  could  not  obtain  premises  suitable  to  their 
operations  under  1000  rupees  a  month.  They  concluded 
by  stating  that  on  a  review  of  the  circumstances  and  posi- 
tion of  the  Mission  and  of  their  families,  they  could  not 
contemplate  such  a  removal  to  the  metropolis  without  the 
utmost  dread,  as  involving  their  inevitable  ruin. 

This  able  memorial  was  signed  by  the  whole  body  of 
missionaries,  and  sent  over  to  Lord  Minto  at  his  country- 
seat  at  Barrackpore,  opposite  Serampore,   on  Thursday 

t  a 


Digitized  by 


Google 


326  HISTORY  OF  THE  8ERAMPOBB  MISSION.      [Chap.  VL 

the  1st  of  October.     The  perusal  of  it   enabled    him 
to  form  an    independent    and    impartial   judgment  of 
the  case  before  he  went  to  the  council  chamber.      It 
Rerocatfonor     ^  Pead  the  next  day  at  the  Board,  together 
the  pmm  order.   ^^  q^  Krefting's  reply  to  the  communication 
which  had  been  addressed  to  him  relative  to  the  removal 
of  the  press.     Col.  Krefting  stated  in  his  letter  that  he 
had  prescribed  such  rules  for  the  missionaries  as  would 
effectually  prevent  in  future  the  issue  of  any  tracts  of  an 
objectionable  character.   Having  thus  manifested  his  readi- 
ness to  meet  the  views  of  his  lordship,  he  trusted  that  the 
British  Government  would  desist  from  demanding  the 
transfer  of  the  press  to  the  Presidency,  which  would  not 
only  ruin  the  missionaries,  but  prove  detrimental  to  the 
interests  of  his  Danish  Majesty's  settlement.      On  the 
perusal  of  these  two  documents,  the  Supreme  Council,  at 
the  suggestion  of  Lord  Minto,  passed  a  resolution  revoking 
the  press  order,  and  simply  requiring  the  missionaries  to 
submit  works  intended  for  circulation  in  the  British  do- 
minions to  the  inspection  of  the  officers  of  the  British 
Government.     The  spirit  of  the  letter  which  embodied 
this  resolution,  presented  an  agreeable  contrast  to  the 
supercilious  tone  of  Mr.  Edmonstone's  personal  communi- 
cation with  Dr.  Carey,  and  the  peremptory  character  of 
the  public  letter  regarding  the  press.   "On  this  occasion," 
says  the  secretary,   "I  am  directed  to  state  that  the 
Governor-General  in  Council  is  fully  convinced  of  the  recti- 
tude of  the  intentions  of  the  Society  of  Missionaries,  and 
that  the  precautions  which  Government  deems  it  necessary 
to  adopt  against  the  unlimited  employment  of  the  press 
proceed  exclusively  from  the  duty  imposed  on  Government 
of  reserving  to  itself  the  authority  of  determining  what 
publications  may  or  may  not  expose  the  public  tranquillity 
to  hazard,  or  involve  a  violation  of  the  public  faith,  in- 
stead of  leaving  the  decision  of  such  important  questions 
to  the  judgment  of  others." 

This  was  felt  to  be  a  most  signal  deliverance  from  im- 
pending ruin,  and  the  missionaries,  after  having  held  a 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1807.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPOBB  MISSION.  327 

meeting  of  thanksgiving  to  Him  who  holds  the  hearts  of 
princes  in  his  hand,  went  down  to  Calcutta  to  return 
their  thanks  to  Lord  Minto,  when  he  remarked  Gnit!tude<)fthe 
"  that  nothing  more  was  necessary  than  a  mere  mUti0Mri~- 
examination  of  the  subject,  when  everything  had  appeared 
in  a  clear  and  favourable  light."     The  storm  which  at  one 
time  threatened  to  destroy  the  Mission  was  thus  dispersed, 
and  the  imposition  of  some  minor  restrictions,  which  it  was 
hoped  would  gradually  die  out,  seemed  to  improve  the 
position  of  the  missionaries,  by  leaving  them  unfettered  in 
other  respects.    The  favourable  change  which  now  rejoiced 
their  hearts  was  to  be  attributed,  under  God,  to  the  peace- 
able and  judicious  conduct  of  the  three  at  Serampore  in 
bending  to  the  necessity  of  circumstances,  and  endeavour- 
ing to  conciliate  those  who  possessed  despotic  power,  and 
were  at  one  time  disposed  to  use  it  tyrannically.     It  was 
the  irrestible  might  of  Christian  meekness  which  carried 
them  safely  through  this  crisis.  "The  crests  of  our  enemies," 
writes  Dr.  Carey,  "  are  fallen,  for  as  soon  as  the  orders  of 
Government  for  the  removal  of  the  press  became  public, 
there  was  no  small  exultation  among  the  enemies  of  re- 
ligion  at  the  prospect  of  having  the  whole  missionary 
establishment  placed  in  Calcutta  under  the  eye  of  a  jealous 
and  arbitrary  Government,  and  exposed  to  the  intrusion 
of  any  informer.     The  report  soon  spread  among  the 
natives,  and  numerous  were  the  signs  of  triumph  they  ex- 
hibited when  they  were  told  that  the  Government  had 
determined  to  banish  the  missionaries  for  destroying  the 
caste  of  the  people.   As  the  circumstance  of  our  dispersing 
pamphlets  in  the  Company's  dominions  is  recognised  in 
their  letter  of  revocation,  we  shall  feel  no  delicacy  in  dis- 
tributing them;   and  as  we  wish  to  avoid  everything 
inflammatory,  and  have  a  genuine  desire  to  promote  the 
tranquillity  of  the  country,  I  have  no  doubt  we  shall  be 
permitted  to  print  nearly  all  we  wish.     Our  public  work 
will  not  be  greatly  interrupted  by  this  occurrence,  and  I 
have  reason  to  hope  that  the  obstacles  which  yet  remain 

T  4 


Digitized  by 


Google 


328  HISTOBY  OF  THE   SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  VI. 

will  be  gradually  removed.  Perhaps  our  situation  is 
now  even  better  than  it  was  before.  There  are,  however, 
many  in  this  country  who  would  rejoice  to  see  Christianity 
wholly  expelled  from  it,  and  particularly  to  see  any  em- 
barrassment thrown  in  our  way.  We  therefore  have  no 
security  but  in  God." 

On  the  2nd  of  November  the  Governor-General  in 
council  transmitted  his  report  of  these  proceedings  to  the 
co^umction  Court  of  Directors.  The  despatch,  drawn  up 
^Vcoun^rDu0  by  Mr.  Edmonstone,  was  intended  to  justify 
redan.  the  extraordinary  course  which  had  been  pui> 

sued.  The  independence  of  a  foreign  flag  had  been  in- 
vaded ;  a  printing  establishment,  known  to  be  under  the 
especial  protection  of  a  foreign  prince,  had  been  ordered  to 
be  removed  from  his  territories;  and  his  representative 
had  been  requested  not  to  allow  the  establishment  of 
another  press  in  the  settlement.  These  proceedings  were 
stated  in  the  despatch  to  have  been  adopted  through  the 
imperative  necessity  of  providing  for  the  safety  of  the 
British  empire  in  the  East,  yet  the  order  had  been  re- 
voked upon  a  representation  of  the  injury  it  would  inflict 
on  the  missionary  establishment.  If  the  simple  inspec- 
tion of  publications  before  they  issued  from  the  Mission 
Press  was  deemed  sufficient  to  provide  for  the  safety  of 
the  empire,  Dr.  Carey  had  voluntarily  offered,  at  the  very 
commencement  of  these  discussions,  to  make  this  conces- 
sion, and  the  demand  for  the  removal  of  the  press  was 
altogether  redundant.  The  despatch  recapitulated  the 
proceedings  of  Government,  step  by  step,  and  rested  the 
defence  of  them  on  the  duty  of  maintaining  the  public 
tranquillity,  and  the  national  faith :  two  expressions  which 
were  reiterated  in  almost  every  page  of  the  despatch.  The 
essence  of  this  elaborate  communication  was  contained  in 
the  following  paragraph  : — "  That  the  publications  in 
question,  and  the  practice  of  preaching  to  the  multitude, 
were  evidently  calculated  to  excite  among  the  native  sub- 
jects of  the  Company  a  spirit  of  religious  jealousy  and 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1807.]  HISTORY  OT  THE  SERAMPORB  MISSION.  329 

alarm,  which  might  be  eventually  productive  of  the  most 
serious  evils;  that  the  distribution  of  such  publications, 
#and  the  public  preachings  of  the  missionaries  and  their 
proselytes,  at  the  very  seat  of  Government,  were  acts 
tending  to  indicate  that  the  proceedings  of  the  missionaries, 
in  vilifying  the  religions  of  the  country,  were  sanctioned 
and  approved  by  the  supreme  authority ;  that  the  preva- 
lence of  such  an  impression  would  both  augment  the 
danger  and  render  more  difficult  the  application  of  a 
remedy ;  that  it  was  of  the  highest  importance,  therefore, 
to  adopt  without  delay  such  measures  as  were  calculated 
to  preclude  a  conjuncture  so  hazardous  to  the  prosperity 
and  even  security  of  these  dominions;  and,  finally,  that 
the  obligation  to  suppress,  within  the  limits  of  the  Com- 
pany's authority  in  India,  treatises  and  public  preachings 
offensive  to  the  religious  persuasions  of  the  people,  was 
founded  on  considerations  of  necessary  caution,  of  general 
safety,  and  of  national  faith  and  honour."  The  despatch 
then  adverted  to  a  the  entire  conviction  of  the  Council  of 
the  correctness  of  the  statement  contained  in  the  memorial 
of  the  missionaries  relative  to  the  motives  and  objects  of 
their  zeal  for  the  propagation  of  the  sacred  doctrines  of 
Christianity,"  and  stated,  that  "  our  duty  as  guardians  of 
the  public  welfare,  and  a  consentaneous  solicitude  for  the 
diffusion  of  the  blessings  of  Christianity,  merely  require  us 
to  restrain  the  efforts  of  that  commendable  zeal  within  their 
proper  limits.'9  But  it  concluded  with  the  strange  request 
that  the  Court  would  prevent  any  accession  in  future  to 
the  number  of  missionaries;  on  the  ground  that  "the 
meritorious  spirit  of  religious  zeal  which  animates  these 
respectable  persons,  who  deem  it  their  duty  to  exert 
their  efforts  to  diffuse  among  the  misguided  natives  of 
India  the  truths  and  blessings  of  the  Christian  faith, 
can  seldom  be  restrained  by  those  maxims  of  pru- 
dence and  caution  which  local  knowledge  and  experience 
alone  can  inspire,  and  without  which  the  labours  of  the 
missionaries  become  a  source  of  danger,  and  tend  to  frus* 


Digitized  by 


Google 


330  HISTORY  OP  THE  SBRAMPORB  MISSION.      [Chap.  VI. 

trate,  rather  than  to  promote  the  benevolent  object  of 
their  mission." 

This  despatch  remained  at  the  India  House  without 
notice  for  many  months,  and  Mr.  Robert  Dundas,  the 
Kepiyofthetn-  President  of  the  Board  of  Control,  whose  in- 
dian  author  teresting  conversation  with  Mr.  Fuller  has 
been  already  given,  at  length  drew  up  the  draft  of  a 
reply,  and  sent  it  for  the  approval  of  the  India  House. 
In  writing  on  this  subject  to  India,  Mr.  Charles  Grant 
remarked,  "  the  answer  is  better  than  the  majority  of  the 
Court  would  have  dictated,  and  it  is  so  from  the  inter- 
ference of  the  Board  of  Control.  It  is  a  qualified,  luke- 
warm approbation  of  what  was  done,  but  with  great  respect 
for  the  general  principle  of  introducing  the  Gospel  into 
India,  and  with  clear  intimations  of  doing  no  more  against 
the  persons  in  question  than  necessity  absolutely  requires." 
In  the  letter  sent  with  the  draft,  the  President  remarked, 
very  significantly,  that  "  it  could  not  be  expected,  that  on 
a  subject  so  interesting  to  the  feelings  of  every  man 
connected  with  India,  or  with  its  concerns,  the  members 
of  the  Court  of  Directors  should  be  wholly  exempt  from 
strong  prepossessions,  or  be  able  to  divest  themselves 
entirely  of  preconceived  opinions."  The  despatch  itself 
was  written  in  a  spirit  of  great  official  caution,  and  mani- 
fested a  just  appreciation  of  the  position  and  responsibili- 
ties of  the  Government  in  India,  but  it  breathed  a  feeling 
of  friendliness  towards  the  missionaries  and  their  enter- 
prise by  no  means  in  accordance  with  the  prevailing  pre- 
judices of  Leadenhall  Street.  It  stated  that  whatever  was 
connected  with  the  introduction  of  Christianity  into  India 
could  not  but  be  felt  as  a  circumstance  of  the  greatest  im- 
portance and  delicacy,  and  the  Court — by  whom  the  de- 
spatch was  to  be  adopted  and  signed — lamented  that  any- 
thing should  have  occurred  to  call  for  the  interference  of 
Government  in  matters  of  that  description.  The  Court 
wished  it  to  be  understood  that  they  were  far  from  being 
adverse  to  the  introduction  of  Christianity  into  India,  or 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1807.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPOBB  MISSION.  331 

indifferent  to  the  benefits  which  would  result  from  the 
general  diffusion  of  its  doctrines ;  but  they  believed  that 
^nothing  could  be  more  unwise  and  impolitic,  or  more 
likely  to  frustrate  the  object  in  view,  than  any  imprudent 
or  injudicious  attempt  to  introduce  it  by  means  that 
should  create  irritation  and  alarm.  Some  of  the  pamphlets 
published  by  the  missionaries  were  calculated  to  produce 
such  an  effect,  and  the  Court  approved  of  the  measures 
taken  to  prevent  the  circulation  of  them*  At  the  same 
time  the  despatch  passed  a  high  encomium  on  the  tem- 
perate and  respectful  conduct  of  the  Society  of  Missionaries 
in  the  discussions  which  had  taken  place ;  and  entirely 
approved  of  the  permission  granted  them  to  remain  at 
Serampore.  "If  indeed,"  said  the  despatch,  "you  had 
foreseen  that  entire  and  ready  submission  to  Government, 
which  their  conduct  had  manifested,  we  think  you  would 
have  doubted  the  expediency  of  holding  a  public  proceed- 
ing on  the  transaction."  This  was  as  severe  a  condemna- 
tion of  the  conduct  of  Lord  Minto  and  his  colleagues  as 
could  have  been  inflicted  on  them,  for,  in  the  letter  to 
which  this  was  a  reply,  they  had  themselves  acknowledged 
that  the  missionaries  manifested  the  most  ready  submis- 
sion to  Government  before  any  proceeding  whatever  was 
held.  The  despatch  then  directed,  that  if  upon  any  future 
occasion,  any  precautionary  measures  should  become  indis- 
pensable, and  the  interference  of  Government  should  again 
be  required,  it  would  be  desirable  in  the  first  instance  to  see 
whether  a  private  communication  with  the  missionaries 
might  not  effect  the  object  without  bringing  into  view  the 
instrumentality  of  Government.  The  Governor-General 
had  requested  that  the  Court  would  prevent  the  embarka- 
tion of  any  more  missionaries ;  this  officious  advice  was 
dismissed  with  the  curt  remark : — "  You  are,  of  course, 
aware  that  many  of  the  meritorious  individuals  who  have 
devoted  themselves  to  those  labours  were  not  British  sub- 
jects, or  living  under  our  authority ;  and  that  none  of  the 
missionaries  have  proceeded  to  Bengal  with  our  license." 


Digitized  by 


Google 


332  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  VL 

But  the  most  important  and  gratifying  portion  of  this  de- 
spatch was  contained  in  the  following  sentence : — "  Enter- 
taining the  sentiments  which  we  have  expressed  in  the 
preceding  parts  of  this  despatch,  we  are  very  far  from 
disapproving  of  your  having  refrained  from  resorting  to 
the  authority  vested  in  you  by  law,  and  enforcing  its  pro- 
visions in  all  its  strictness  against  the  missionaries ;  and 
we  rely  on  your  discretion,  that  you  will  abstain  from 
all  unnecessary  and  ostentatious  interference  with  their 
proceedings." 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1807.]  HISTORY  07  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  833 


CHAP.  VII. 

The  attempt  to  root  up  the  Serampore  Mission,  and  to 
extinguish  all  missionary  efforts  in  India,  was  not  con- 
fined to  that  country.     Towards  the  close  of 
1807,  the  most  strenuous  and  unscrupulous  ex-     gp^* 
ertions  were  made  in  London  to  compass  the 
same  object.     The  battle  of  Missions,  as  it  may  aptly  be 
termed,  raged  with  great  violence  for  many  months,  and 
occasioned  the  publication  of  more  than  twenty-five  pam- 
phlets.    The  circumstances  of  the  times  appeared  to  be 
favourable  for  the  execution  of  a  design   which   "old 
Indians,"  even  in  their  retirement  to  opulence  and  ease 
in  England,  never  lost  sight  of.   The  successes  of  Napoleon 
on    the  Continent,    and    the    struggle,    apparently  for 
existence,  which  England  was  then   called  to  maintain, 
rendered  the  public  sensitive  of  every  alarm,  and  disposed 
men  to  the  adoption  of  whatever  measures  might  be 
suggested  by  experience  for  the  protection  of  any  portion 
of  the  empire.     The  Vellore  mutiny  had  produced   a 
profound  sensation  in  England,  and  prepared  the  com- 
munity to  receive,  with  little  inquiry,  any  representation 
which  alarmists  might  make  regarding  the  perils  of  our 
empire  in  India.    It  was  at  this  season  of  general  anxiety, 
that  the  existence  of  our  power  in  India  was  affirmed, 
by  those  who  had  passed  their  lives  in  that  country, 
to  be  in  the  most  imminent  peril  from  the  exertions  of 
the  Missionaries,  "  who  were  invading  the  dearest  rights, 
and   wounding  the  tenderest  feelings  of  the   natives." 
The  campaign  was  opened  in  London  by  Mr.   Thomas 
Twining,   the  son  of  the  opulent  tea-dealer,   who  had 


Digitized  by 


Google 


334  HISTORY  OF  THE  8BRAMP0RE  MISSION,      [Chap.  VH. 

been  employed  for  thirteen  years,  from  1792  to  1805,  in 
various  departments  in  the  Civil  service  at  the  Bengal 
Mr.  Twining*.  Presidency.  He  now  came  forward  with  a  letter 
paiphiet.         tQ  Mv  paiT^  the  cimirman  of  the  Court   of 

Directors,  stating  that  "  he  had  recently  heard,  with  in- 
finite concern  and  alarm,  of  proceedings  which  conveyed 
to  his  humble  apprehension  evidence   of  a  strong  dis- 
position, in  a  quarter,  too,  where  its  existence  was  most 
to  be  dreaded,  to  interfere  with  the  religious  opinions  of 
the  natives."     His   "fear  of  attempts    to    disturb  the 
religious  systems  of  India  "  had  been  especially  excited  by 
hearing  that  a  Society  existed  in  England  —  the  Bible 
Society  —  the  chief  object  of  which  was  the  universal 
dissemination  of  the  Christian  faith,  particularly  among 
the  nations  of  the  East.     He   said  that  "if  a  Society 
having  such  objects  did  exist,  and  if  the  leading  members 
of  the  Society   were  also  members  of  the   East   India 
Company,   and  its    President  a  member  of  the  Board 
of  Control,  then  our  possessions  in  the  East  were  already 
in  a  situation  of  the  most  imminent  and  unprecedented 
peril;   and  no  less  a  danger  than  the  threatened  exter- 
mination of  our  Eastern  sovereignty  commanded  us  to 
step  forward  and  arrest  the  progress  of  such  rash  and 
unprecedented  proceedings."     To  substantiate  this  state- 
ment, he  referred  to  the  progress  which  had  been  made 
in   the  translation  and  printing  of    the   Scriptures  at 
Serampore,   and  the   aid   which  the  Bible   Society  had 
resolved  to  offer  to  the  Oriental  translations  of  the  Scrip- 
tures. He  treated  the  labours  of  the  Missionaries  as  a  source 
of  great  danger  to  the  Indian  empire.     Copious  extracts 
were  also  given  from  Mr.  Buchanan's  Memoir,  in  which 
he  had  urged  the  expediency  of  promoting  the  moral  and 
religious  improvement  of  our  Indian  subjects ;  and  Mr. 
Twining  dwelt  with  particular  emphasis  and  indignation 
on  the  expression  which  Mr.  Buchanan  had  very  impru- 
dently introduced  into  it :    "A  wise  policy  seems  to  de- 
mand that  we  should  use  every  means  of  coercing  this 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1807.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SEEAMPORE  MISSION.  S35 

contemptuous  spirit  of  our  native  subjects ; "  adding  in  a 
note,  "  Gracious  Heaven !  what  sentiments  are  here  sent 
forth  amidst  the  population  of  our  provinces  in  India."  Mr. 
Twining's  letter  closed  with  the  following  remarks :  "  The 
religious  opinions  of  the  natives  of  India  is  a  subject  on 
which  my  feelings  are  particularly  alive,  not  merely  from 
the  interest  I  take  in  whatever  relates  to  the  happiness 
of  the  natives,  but  from  my  extreme  apprehension  of  the 
fatal  consequences  to  ourselves  from  any  interference  in 
their  religious  opinions.  ...  If  ever  the  fatal  day  shall 
arrive  when  religious  Innovation  shall  set  her  foot  in  that 
country,  indignation  will  spread  from  one  end  of  Hjndoo- 
stan  to  the  other ;  and  the  arms  of  fifty  millions  of  people 
will  drive  us  from  that  portion  of  the  globe  with  as  much 
ease  as  the  sand  of  the  desert  is  scattered  by  the  wind  ; " 
and  he  therefore  expressed  his  hope  that  "our  native 
subjects  in  the  East  would  be  permitted  quietly  to  follow 
their  own  religious  opinions,  their  own  religious  prejudices 
and  absurdities,  till  it  shall  please  the  Omnipotent  power 
of  Heaven  to  lead  them  into  the  paths  of  Light  and 
Truth." 

Mr.  Twining's  assault  was  promptly  and  ably  met  by 
Mr.  Owen,  the  great  Secretary  of  the  Bible  Society.  He 
began  by  stating  in  his  pamphlet  that  as  the 
author  had  not  only  given  his  name  in  the  J^gjJ*'" 
second  edition  of  his  pamphlet,  but  announced 
his  intention  of  bringing  the  matter  it  contained,  in  con- 
currence with  many  other  respectable  proprietors,  under 
the  consideration  of  a  General  Court,  he  considered  it  a 
duty  he  owed  to  the  Bible  Society,  the  Company,  and  the 
public,  to  submit  some  remarks  on  that  extraordinary 
publication  to  the  Chairman.  He  pointed  out  the  error 
into  which  Mr.  Twining  had  fallen,  of  supposing  that  the 
Bible  Society  had  for  its  chief  object  "  the  universal  dis* 
semination  of  the  Christian  faith,"  and  he  showed  by  a 
reference  to  its  fundamental  rules  that  it  had  but  one 
definite  object,  which  was  altogether  unobjectionable — > 


Digitized  by 


Google 


336  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  VII. 

"  the  circulation  of  the  Scriptures,  not  in  India  and  the 
United  Kingdom  only,  but  in  all  countries  that  need, 
desire,  and  are  capable  of  using  them."  In  reference  to 
the  connection  of  Mr.  Charles  Grant  and  Mr.  Thornton, 
members  of  the  Court  of  Directors,  and  of  Lord  Teign- 
mouth,  of  the  Board  of  Control,  with  the  Bible  Society, 
he  said,  "  if  official  employment  is  to  neutralise  personal 
exertion,  if  a  connection  with  the  executive  Government 
or  the  India  House  is  to  operate  as  a  disability  on  those 
who  hold  it  to  promote  at  their  discretion  the  circulation 
of  the  Scriptures,  to  what  a  state  of  moral  vassalage  are 
the  numerous  members  of  each  department  reduced  !" 
He  then  alluded  to  "the  only  expression  in  Mr.  Buchanan's 
Memoir  which  seemed  to  require  explanation,  the  policy 
of  coercing  the  contemptuous  spirit  of  our  native  sub- 
jects," and  showed  satisfactorily  that  the  objection  to  it 
vanished  when  it  was  read  in  conjunction  with  the  con- 
text ;  that  it  was  the  turbulent  and  bloody  spirit  of  our 
native  Mahomedan  subjects  that  Mr.  Buchanan  had  con- 
sidered it  necessary  to  coerce,  and  that  the  restraint  was 
to  be  civil  and  not  religious  in  its  character.  Mr.  Twining 
had  said  in  a  note  that  he  did  not  know  "who  these 
Serampore  Missionaries  were."  Mr.  Owen  rebuked  him 
for  his  "  ostentatious  ignorance,"  and  said,  "  as  for  Mr* 
Carey,  the  chief  minister  of  the  Baptist  Mission,  he  is 
known,  I  presume,  to  all  who  do  not  consider  Literature 
disgraced  by  an  alliance  with  Piety.  As  teacher  of  the 
Bengalee,  Sanscrit,  and  Mahratta  languages  in  the  College 
of  Fort  William,  and  a  member  of  the  Asiatic  Society,  he 
is  not  a  correspondent  whom  any  institution  need  be 
anxious  to  disown.  As  to  the  Serampore  Missionaries, 
Sir  George  Barlow  would  have  informed  him  who  they 
may  be,  in  whose  printed  speech  they  are  acknowledged 
with  respect  as  'the  Society  of  Protestant  Missionaries 
at  Serampore.'  His  Majesty's  Librarian  can  inform  him 
by  exhibiting  to  his  view,  upon  the  royal  shelves,  a  copy 
of  the  first  Bengalee  New  Testament  imported  into  this 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1807.]  HISTORY  Otf  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION*  337 

country,  the  work  of  these  very  Missionaries,  whom  it 
seems  it  is  a  credit,  and  that  in  a  Senior  Merchant  on  the 
Bengal  establishment,  not  to  know  who  they  may  be." 
Mr.  Owen's  letter  concluded  with  the  following  dignified 
remarks,  which  placed  the  decision  of  the  question  of 
Missions  upon  the  broad  ground  of  Christian  philan- 
thropy :  — "  Finally,  Sir,  I  have  ventured  to  take  it  for 
granted,  considering  who  would  be  my  judges,  and  in 
what  an  awful  crisis  I  write,  that  the  Bible  is  the  only 
book  which  contains  the  revealed  will  of  God,  that 
the  sooner  it  supersedes  the  Shaster  and  the  Koran,  the 
sooner  will  the  happiness  of  India  be  consummated,  and 
that  the  more  we  contribute  as  a  nation  and  as  individuals 
to  promote  this  end  by  lawful  means,  the  greater  bless- 
ings we  shall  draw  down  on  our  commerce  and  on  our 
arms,  upon  ourselves  and  our  posterity." 

Mr.  Twining's  attack  on  the  missionary  enterprise  was 
that  of  a  mere  skirmisher  compared    with  the  heavy 
cannonade  now  opened  by  Major  Scott  Waring.  Mfi0T  s^tt 
He  had  gone  out  to  India  in  the  military  ser-  Warln«,$attack- 
vice  of  the  Company,  about  the  year  1765,  and  was  sub- 
sequently placed  on  the  personal  staff  of  the  Governor- 
General,  Mr.  Hastings.     So  completely  had  he  acquired 
the  confidence  of  Mr.  Hastings,  that  he  was  sent  home  as 
his  representative  to   counteract  the   opposition  of  Mr. 
Francis,  who  had  returned  to  England  with  feelings  of  the 
most  malignant   hostility  towards  the  Governor-General. 
He  obtained  a  seat  in  Parliament,  and  stood  forth  on  all 
occasions  as  the  opponent  of  Mr.  Francis,  but  so  reckless 
were  his  assertions,  and  so  injudicious  the  advocacy  of  Mr. 
Hastings's  interest,  that  he  was  commonly  designated  his 
"evil  genius."     The  time  he  had  passed  in  India  was 
that  in  which  the  European  community  was  preeminently 
distinguished  by  indifference  to  Christianity,  and  a  par- 
tiality for  the  superstitions  of  the  country.     But,  on  his 
first  appearance  before  the  public  on  this  occasion,  he  re- 
presented himself  as  the  warmest  admirer  of  u  our  good 
vol.  i.  z 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


S38  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORB  MISSION.      [Chap.  VII. 

old  Church,"  and  stated  that  he  had  acted  as  chaplain  to  a 
regiment  for  two  years,  when  there  were  but  two  chaplains 
at  the  whole  Presidency,  and,  notwithstanding  his  cordial 
hatred  of  all  sectaries,  had,  according  to  his  own  affirma- 
tion, "  a  better  knowledge  of  truth  than  most  other  men." 
In  July,  1807,  he  published  some  "  Observations  on  the 
present  state  of  the  East  India  Company,"  chiefly  in  re- 
ference to  its  financial  position.  In  that  pamphlet  he 
stated,  that  the  alarming  mutiny  of  Vellore  had  already 
subsided,  that  it  had  been  excited  by  the  sons  of  Tippoo 
Sultan,  whose  emissaries  insinuated  that  the  change  in  the 
dress  of  the  sepoys  was  only  preparatory  to  the  accom- 
plishment of  our  great  object  of  compelling  them  to 
embrace  Christianity;  but  as  the  government  in  India 
had  taken  every  method  to  convince  the  natives  "  that  we 
should  pay  the  same  regard  to  their  religious  opinions  and 
customs  as  we  had  hitherto  invariably  done,"  there  was 
not  the  smallest  danger  of  another  mutiny,  unless  we 
adopted  a  new  system  in  India.  This  reference  to  the 
mutiny,  led  him  to  consider  the  ecclesiastical  establish- 
ment which  Mr.  Buchanan  had  proposed,  and  the  labours 
of  the  Serampore  Missionaries.  With  regard  to  the  es- 
tablishment, he  said  it  would  lead  the  people  of  India  to 
the  conclusion,  that  if  they  could  not  be  reasoned  out  of 
the  religion  of  their  forefathers,  they  would  be  compelled 
to  embrace  Christianity,  and  that  they  would  feel  the 
most  serious  alarm  if  they  were  to  see  a  number  of  clergy- 
men spread  over  Hindoostan,  paid  and  encouraged  by 
government.  "  Missionaries,"  said  he,  "  can  do  no  mis- 
chief in  India,  if  they  are  treated  as  formerly,  neither 
encouraged  nor  oppressed.  The  true  line  for  the  British 
Government  to  pursue,  is  obvious :  let  missionaries  make 
as  many  converts  as  they  can,  but  give  them  no  support 
on  the  one  hand,  or  discouragement  on  the  other." 

The  pamphlet  went  through  four  editions  in  eight 
months.  To  the  second  edition  the  Major  added  some  "  pre- 
fatory remarks,  grounded  on  additional  information,  which 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1807.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE   MISSION.  339 

he  said  he  had  recently  received,  in  the  hope  that  it  might 
attract  the  attention  of  the  East  India  Company  and  the 
Legislature."  The  Preface,  which  was  equal  in  bulk  to 
the  pamphlet  itself,  denounced  the  missionaries  and  their 
enterprise  in  terms  of  the  most  unqualified  abuse.  It 
opened  with  the  proclamation  issued  by  the  government 
at  Madras,  on  the  3rd  of  December,  1806,  which  was  in- 
tended to  allay  the  agitation  still  prevalent,  in  several 
corps,  and  gave  the  native  troops  the  assurance,  that  the 
same  respect  which  had  been  invariably  shown  by  the 
British  Government  for  their  religion  and  their  customs 
would  be  always  continued.  The  policy  of  issuing  any 
such  proclamation  in  the  face  of  a  mutiny  was  much 
questioned,  because  it  was  thought  that  the  attention  it 
aroused  was  calculated  rather  to  prolong  than  extinguish 
excitement.  No  mutiny  was  ever  yet  extinguished  or 
arrested  by  proclamations;  when  men  have  passed  the 
Rubicon,  such  documents  are  considered  as  a  token  of 
fear,  and  serve  to  add  fuel  to  the  flame,  which  can  be 
quenched  only  in  blood.  But  the  proclamation  was  before 
the  Major  when  the  body  of  the  work,  in  which  he  as- 
serted that  missionaries  unsupported  by  Government  could 
do  no  harm,  was  composed  and  published ;  this  document, 
therefore,  was  not  sufficient  to  account  for  the  change  of 
his  opinion.  But  it  appeared,  that  some  one  had  written 
from  India  to  say,  that  three  months  after  the  date  of  the 
proclamation,  so  great  was  the  dread  of  a  general  revolt 
among  our  native  troops,  that  the  British  officers  con- 
stantly slept  with  pistols  under  their  pillows.  On  the 
strength  of  this  information,  he  deemed  it  his  duty  to 
assert  that,  "  if  India  was  deemed  worth  preserving,  we 
should  endeavour  to  regain  the  confidence  of  the  people 
by  the  immediate  recal  of  every  missionary,"  Having 
thus  altered  his  opinion  regarding  the  proceedings  of  the 
Serampore  Missionaries,  because  some  timid  officers,  a 
thousand  miles  off,  did  not  go  to  bed  without  loaded 
pistols,  eight  months  after  the  mutiny,  he  rushed  onward 

z  2 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


340  HISTORY  OF  THE   BBRAMPORB  MISSION.       [Chap.  VE 

with  a  degree  of  reckless  virulence,  which  recalled  to  miid 
the   truculent  pamphlets  he  had  published   under  the 
signature  of  "  Detector,"  and  of  "Asiaticus,"  in  the  height 
of  the  Hastings  controversy.     Every  epithet    of  abuse, 
which  ingenuity  could  invent,  was  unsparingly  heaped  on 
them.     He  called  public  attention,  in  the  first  instance,  to 
what  had  passed  in  1781.     The  Supreme  Court,  among 
other  freaks  of  power,  had  issued  a  process  against  the 
Raja  of  Cossijurah,  a  wealthy  landholder,  residing  a  hun- 
dred miles  from  Calcutta,  and  sent  a  posse  of  European 
constables  to  execute  it,  who  were  said  to  have  entered  the 
Raja's  dwelling  and   committed  various  outrages,    dese- 
crating the  family  shrine  and  violating  the  sanctity  of  the 
female  apartments.     Mr.  Hastings  and  his  council  deemed 
it  necessary  for  the  peace  of  the  country,  and  for  the  vin- 
dication of  their  authority,  to   resist  this  aggression  of 
the  Crown  Court  by  force  of  arms,  and  then  petitioned 
Parliament  for  a  bill  of  indemnity.     In  taking  evidence 
regarding  the   outrages   committed,  the  House  was  in- 
sensibly led  to  inquire,  perhaps  for  the  first  time,  into  the 
subject  of  the  Hindoo  laws,  religion,  and  customs,  and 
the  Major  asserted  that  "  there  appeared  to  be  but  one 
opinion  in  Parliament,  in  the  East  India  Company,  and  in 
the  nation  at  large,  and  it  was  this,  that  any  attempt  to 
interfere  with  the  religion,  the  laws,  or  the  local  customs 
of  India,  must  inevitably  tend  to  the  destruction  of  the 
British  power,  and  that  the  people  of  India  were  entitled, 
upon  every  principle  of  justice  as  well  as  policy,  to  the 
full  enjoyment  of  their  own  religion,  laws,  and  customs." 
But  the  fact  was,  that  the  Legislature  passed  no  resolution 
whatever  on  the  subject  in  1781 ;  and  the  allusion  to  this 
transaction  only  served  to  disclose  the  weakness  of  Major 
Scott  Waring's  cause,  for  it  was  ridiculous  to  draw  a  com- 
parison between  the  outrageous  violation  of  a  religious 
shrine  by  the  myrmidons  of  the  law  and  the  peaceful  dis- 
semination of  Christian  truth.     He  then  alluded  to  the 
year  1793,  "when  Mr.  Wilberforce  in  the  House  of  Com- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1807.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSIOK.  341 

mons,  proposed  two  clauses  in  the  Charter  Act  then  under 
discussion,  by  one  of  which  free  schools  were  to  be  in- 
stituted throughout  India;  and  by  another,  Christian 
missionaries  were  to  be  appointed,  and  both  for  the  avowed 
purpose  of  civilising  and  converting  the  natives."  These 
propositions,  he  said,  could  not  have  been  listened  to  in 
1781,  when  it  was  the  fixed  principle  of  the  Legislature 
never  to  interfere  with  the  religion,  laws,  and  customs  of 
India.  The  Bishop  of  London,  he  said,  supported  clauses 
similar  to  those  of  Mr.  Wilberforce  in  the  House  of  Lords, 
but  they  were  strongly  opposed  by  the  late  Bishop  of  St. 
Asaph,  "a  sound  and  orthodox  divine,  and  one  of  the 
main  pillars  of  our  good  old  Church  of  England.  The 
Bishop  deprecated  any  attempt  to  interfere  with  the  re- 
ligion, laws,  or  local  customs  of  the  people  of  India,  and 
assured  the  House,  that  as  Christians  there  was  no  obli- 
gation on  us,  were  it  possible,  which  he  denied,  to  attempt 
the  conversion  of  the  natives  of  India.  The  command  of 
our  Saviour  to  preach  the  Gospel  to  all  creatures,  did  not 
apply  to  us ;  the  gifts  of  tongues  and  miracles  bad  ceased, 
and  with  it  the  extraordinary  commission  had  ceased  too." 
The  Major  proceeded  to  assert  that  "  the  mind  of  man 
had  never  conceived  a  wilder  or  more  dangerous  plan  than 
that  of  instituting  Free  Schools  throughout  Hindoostan. 

What  Mahomedan  or  what  Hindoo  would  send 

his  children  for  education  to  a  schoolmaster,  except  by 
compulsion  ?  But  the  institution  itself  would  arm  all 
India  against  us  ;  because  it  would  convince  the  natives 
that  if  persuasion  would  not  affect  what  we  wanted,  we 
should  then  resort  to  compulsion."  Dr.  Kerr,  the  Madras 
Chaplain,  had  recommended  that  English  Schools  should 
be  established,  because  the  natives  considered  that  language 
the  key  to  fortune,  and  had  remarked  that  their  ill-founded 
ridiculous  principles  must  be  shaken  to  the  very  founda- 
tion by  the  communication  of  such  liberal  knowledge  as  a 
Christian  can  instil  into  the  minds  of  youth,  and  all  this 
without  making  any  alarming  attacks  directly  on  the 

z  3 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


342  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPOBB  MISSION.      [Chap.  VH. 

religion  of  the  Hindoos.  On  this  plan  the  Major  observes : — 
"  We  are  therefore,  by  a  deception  of  the  basest  kind,  to 
allure  the  children  of  these  brahmins  to  our  schools,  that 
we  may  shake  their  ill-founded  ridiculous  principles,  but 
still  to  keep  up  the  mask  of  friendly  regard  to  their 
temporal  interests  by  merely  offering  to  teach  them  a 
language  which  will  be  the  hey  to  fortune.  No  disciple  of 
Loyola  ever  proposed  a  scheme  more  repugnant  to  every 
principle  of  justice  and  true  morality."  He  said  he  had 
resided  in  Bengal  during  the  government  of  Mr.  Verelst, 
Mr.  Cartier,  and  Mr.  Hastings,  and  they  were  equally 
careful  in  fostering  and  protecting  the  religion  of  Mahomed 
and  the  Shaster.  He  maintained  that  it  had  been  the  in- 
variable practice  of  the  British  Government  generally  to 
foster  and  protect  the  religion  of  the  Hindoos,  and  also  to 
encourage  what  the  Bible  Society  terms  the  bloody  and 
degrading  superstition  of  Mahomed,  but  now- India  was 
overspread  with  sectarian  Missionaries  whom,  with  an 
affectation  of  ignorance  and  contempt,  he  described  "  as 
Baptist  Missionaries,  Arminian  Missionaries,  United 
Brethren  Missionaries,  &c.  &c."  Who  the  Baptist  Mis- 
sionaries were,  he  did  not  exactly  know,  though  he  believed 
they  might  be  classed  with  Calvinistic  Methodists  to  dis- 
tinguish them  from  Arminian  Methodists.  "  They  appear 
to  be  illiterate,  ignorant,  and  as  enthusiastic  as  the  wildest 
devotees  among  the  Hindoos.  Such  men  are  not  calcu- 
lated to  convert  a  civilised  race  from  a  false  to  the  true 
religion.  Those  who  have  conceived  it  possible  to  convert 
the  natives  to  Christianity,  should  have  been  careful  not 
to  throw  India  into  the  hands  of  schismatics.  The  new 
order  of  Missionaries  were  the  most  ignorant  and  the 
most  bigoted  of  men.  Their  compositions  were,  in  fact, 
nothing  but  puritanical  rant  of  the  most  vulgar  kind ;  worse 
than  that  so  much  in  fashion  in  Great  Britain  during  the 
days  of  Oliver  Cromwell.  The  head  of  this  mission,"  he 
said,  "  is  a  Mr.  William  Carey,  who  enjoys  a  salary  from 
the  Company  of  eight  hundred  pounds  a  year,  as  teacher 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1807.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SEBAMPORB  MISSION.  343 

of  the  Bengalee  and  Sanscrit  languages ;  he  has  also  apart- 
ments  in  the  College  for  the  reception  of  his  brother  Mis- 
sionaries when  they  visit  Calcutta.  In  the  Company's  list 
of  College  officers,  he  is  styled  Mr.  William  Carey ;  but 
the  Bible  Society  have  given  him  the  dignified  title  of 
1  Reverend.9  For  some  years,  as  he  tells  us  himself,  he 
laboured  in  concert  with  brother  Thomas,  as  he  calls  him, 
in  Dinagepore,  but  without  success.  This  brother  Thomas, 
and  his  convert  Parbotee,  died  raving  mad  in  Bengal  some 
time  ago.  In  the  course  of  several  years  these  English 
Missionaries  have  made  very  few  converts.  They  have  not 
made  a  single  Mahomedan  convert,  and  the  very  few 
Hindoos  who  have  been  converted  were  men  of  the  most 
despicable  characters,  who  had  lost  their  caste,  and  took 
up  a  new  religion  because  they  were  excommunicated." 
Major  Scott  Waring  considered  the  success  of  Missions 
absolutely  hopeless,  and  that  the  very  attempt  must  entail 
the  loss  of  the  empire.  "  I  am  most  confident,"  said  he, 
"  that  success  by  circulating  our  Holy  Scriptures  and  by 
encouraging  Missionaries,  so  far  from  being  probable, 
would  be  impossible.  If  there  are  any  public  men  in 
India  wild  enough  to  conceive  the  conversion  of  the 
natives  to  be  probable,  let  them  consider  what  fatal  con- 
sequences must  ensue  if  their  judgment  be  erroneous. 
We  have  not  more  than  thirty  thousand  British  subjects 
in  all  India  to  oppose  a  population  of  fifty  millions  in  a 
general  religious  insurrection.  If  there  are  amongst  us 
men  who  conceive  India  to  be  of  no  importance  to  Great 
Britain,  humanity  requires  that  we  should  preserve  the 
lives  of  our  countrymen  until  we  can  send  transports  to 
bring  them  home."  Two  hundred  copies  of  St.  Matthew's 
Gospel,  printed  at  Serampore,  in  the  Mahratta  language, 
were  sent  by  Mr.  Taylor,  a  Missionary,  to  Surat,  to  be  given 
away  amongst  the  natives —  and  the  Major  considered  this 
measure  likely  to  produce  another  Mahratta  war.  "  Are 
the  Missionaries,"  said  he,  "to  be  allowed  to  spread  them- 
selves over  India  each  with  a  train  of  hackeries  loaded 

z  4 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


344  HISTORY  OF  THE  SBBAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  VII* 

with  Bibles  and  religious  pamphlets  ?     Shall  a  warehouse 
be  opened  at   Calcutta,  Madras,  and  Bombay,  and  the 
people  invited  by  public  advertisement  to  take  away  as 
many  copies  as  they  choose  ?     How  is  it  possible  that  a 
distribution  can  be  made  so  as  to  make  it  appear  that 
Government  gives  no  sort  of  countenance  to  the  under- 
taking ?     In  fact,  if  the  ingenuity  of  Bonaparte  had  been 
exercised  in  devising  a  plan,  that  with  more  certainty 
than  any  other  would  destroy  the  British  Empire  in  India, 
he  would  have  recommended  the  very  plan  adopted  by  the 
Bible  Society."     It  has  been  stated  in  a  former  chapter 
that  Mr.  William  Carey  junr.  and  Mr.  Moore  went  on  a 
missionary  tour  to  Dacca,  from  whence  they  were  peremp- 
torily sent  back  by  the  official  authorities.    On  this  Major 
Scott  Waring  observes :  "  Notwithstanding  this  prohibition 
from  persons  possessing  the  highest  civil  authority  in  the 
province,  Mr.  Carey  and  Mr.  Moore  had  the  presumption 
to  distribute  these  pamphlets  as  they  returned  back  to 
Serampore ;  an  act  of  contumacy  for  which  they  ought  to 
have  been  shut  up  as  dangerous  maniacs,  or  immediately 
sent  to  England.   It  is  clear  to  me,  that,  unless  powerfully- 
patronised,  Mr.  Carey  and  Mr.  Moore  would  not  have 
conducted  themselves  with  such  unexampled  presumption." 
Mr.  Marshman,  again,  had  stated  in  a  letter  to  Mr.  Fuller, 
that  the  appearance  of  a  European  in  a  village  created 
alarm,  and  therefore  advised  the  more  extended  employ- 
ment of  native  agency ;  upon  which  Major  Scott  Waring 
observes :  "  The  missionaries  represent  to  their  society, 
the  great  service  that  may  be  done  to  the  cause  by  the 
exertions  of  active  native  converts,  i  who  might  get  silent 
and  unperceived  into  houses,  and  scatter  the  precious  seed ; 
whereas,  the  mere  appearance  of  an  English  missionary  in 
a  bigoted  city  would  occasion  the  greatest  alarm.7     After 
so  frank  a  confession,  can  the  Legislature  hesitate  an 
instant  in  recalling  these  madmen  from  Bengal  ?  "     But 
Mr.  Marshman  alluded  to  the  alarm  created  by  his  appear- 
ance as  a  European  and  not  as  a  Missionary.     The  same 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1807.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORB  MISSION.  345 

alarm  still  prevails.  In  the  year  1852,  it  became  necessary 
to  carry  the  railroad  survey  through  a  district  not  two 
hundred  miles  from  Calcutta  which  had  been  nearly  a 
hundred  years  in  our  possession,  yet  so  foreign  was  the  sight 
of  a  European  that  the  villages  were  deserted  on  the  ap- 
proach of  the  European  surveyors.  Mr.  Marshman  had 
also  mentioned  that  the  comparatively  small  expense  of 
native  preachers  was  a  farther  recommendation  of  the 
plan.  Major  Scott  Waring  designedly,  or  inadvertently, 
perverts  his  meaning,  as  if  he  had  alluded  to  the  bribing  of 
men  to  become  converts.  "  One  of  the  missionaries,"  he 
says,  "  writes  to  England  that i  a  hundred  rupees  a  month 
would  support  ten  native  converts  with  their  families, 
and  a  still  greater  number  of  single  brethren,'  which  is 
undoubtedly  true,  because  the  wages  of  our  common  ser- 
vants are  but  three,  four,  and  five  rupees  a  month." 

The  pamphlets  of  Mr.  Twining  and  Major  Scott  Waring 
were  industriously  circulated  in  London,  in  the  beginning 
of  December,  to  prepare  the  proprietors  for  the  Mr.  Fuiie* 
motion  which  Mr.  Twining  intended  to  bring  exe^Uoo,• 
forward  in  the  Court,  on  the  23rd  of  that  month,  for  the 
extinction  of  Indian  Missions.  Mr.  Fuller  hastened  to 
London  and  found  that  a  strong  anti-missionary  feeling 
had  been  created  in  influential  political  circles,  which  it 
was  necessary  to  counteract  with  promptitude.  He  was 
informed  that  it  was  necessary  to  muster  all  the  strength 
the  friends  of  Missions  could  command  in  the  Court  of 
Proprietors  to  meet  these  attacks,  and  that,  as  the  Secre- 
tary of  the  Baptist  Missionary  Society,  he  must  prepare  a 
full  and  satisfactory  reply  to  the  calumnies  contained  in 
these  pamphlets.  Four  days  after,  he  learned  that  some 
of  the  Directors  had  seriously  contemplated  the  recal  of 
the  missionaries,  and  he  immediately  waited  on  Lord 
Wellesley,  to  solicit  his  interest  with  the  ministry  to 
defeat  this  project.  Lord  Wellesley  assured  Mr.  Fuller 
that  he  was  decidedly  opposed  to  such  a  measure,  which 
he  considered  as  the  most   impolitic  and  unjust  which 


Digitized  by 


Google 


346  HISTORY  OF  THE   SERAMPORE  MIS8ION.      [Chap.  VII. 

could  be  thought  of,  and  he  promised  to  use  his  efforts  to 
dissuade  the  Ministry  from  it,  if  they  should  ask  his 
opinion  on  the  subject.  Mr.  Fuller  also  called  on  Lord 
Teignmouth,  who  was  as  frank  and  friendly  as  ever,  and 
read  him  a  memorial  he  had  presented  to  the  Court  of 
Directors  on  the  subject.  He  said  he  had  made  a  si- 
milar representation  to  the  Board  of  Control,  where  the 
impression  appeared  to  be  rather  antagonistic  to  Mr. 
Twining's  views.  The  Proprietors  met  on  the  23rd  of 
December,  when  Mr.  Twining  rose  and  delivered  a  long 
speech  on  the  new  dangers  which  threatened  our  empire 
in  India,  by  the  attempts  which  had  been  made  to  inter* 
fere  with  the  religious  prejudices  of  the  natives.  He  said 
he  was  anxious  to  decline  all  discussion,  and  only  re- 
quested the  Chairman  to  give  him  the  assurance  that,  in 
future,  no  interference  would  be  allowed  in  the  religious 
opinions  of  the  natives.  The  Chairman  declined  to  give 
any  other  than  a  general  assurance  that  the  Directors 
would  do  whatever  appeared  to  them  to  be  most  proper. 
Mr.  Twining  was  thus  repulsed  at  the  first  onset,  and  left 
the  Court,  threatening  to  call  a  special  meeting  of  the 
Proprietors.  It  was  generally  supposed,  that  a  majority 
of  this  body  was  opposed  to  any  interference  with  the 
Serampore  Missionaries ;  but  it  was  still  deemed  necessary 
to  counteract  the  effect  which  had  been  produced  by  the 
two  pamphlets.  Mr.  Fuller,  therefore,  shut  himself  up 
in  the  house  of  a  friend  in  London,  and  began  the  compi- 
lation of  his  "  Apology  for  the  late  Christian  Missions  in 
India ; "  but  while  he  was  engaged  in  the  task,  four  other 
pamphlets,  equally  hostile,  appeared  in  rapid  succession, 
and  it  was  deemed  necessary  to  embrace  their  assertions 
in  his  reply.  The  "Apology"  was  thus  expanded  into 
three  parts,  and  formed  a  volume  of  three  hundred  and 
thirty  pages.  We  can  find  room,  however,  only  for  a  brief 
notice  of  the  salient  points  of  attack  and  reply. 

Mr.  Twining  had  affirmed  that  "  as  long  as  we  conti- 
nued to  govern  India  in  the  mild  and  tolerant  spirit  of 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1807.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  347 

Christianity,  we  might  govern  it  with  ease ;  but  if  eVer 
the  day  should  arrive  when  religious  innovation  set  her 
foot  in  the  country,  indignation  would  spread  Mr  rullert 
from  one  end  of  India  to  the  other."  To  7£SSSSuS^ 
this  Mr.  Fuller  replied:  —  "Is  giving  the  ,lonfc 
Scriptures,  then,  to  the  natives,  in  their  own  languages, 
and  offering  to  instruct  them  in  their  leading  doctrines, 
opposed  to  the  mild  and  tolerant  spirit  of  Christianity  ? 
If  it  be,  neither  the  founder  of  the  Christian  religion 
nor  His  followers  have  yet  understood  it.  The  question 
which  Mr.  Twining  proposes  to  submit  to  a  General 
Court  of  Proprietors,  whatever  be  the  terms  in  which 
it  may  be  couched,  will  not  be,  whether  the  natives  of 
India  shall  continue  to  enjoy  the  most  perfect  toleration, 
but  whether  that  toleration  shall  be  extended  to  Christian 
Missionaries"  Mr.  Fuller  then  alluded  to  the  singular 
notion  of  toleration  which  had  been  entertained  of  late 
years  by  some  who  would  be  thought  its  firmest  advocates, 
and  remarked,  "  They  do  not  propose  to  persecute  the 
Christians  of  India,  provided  they  would  keep  their  Chris- 
tianity to  themselves;  but  those  who  attempt  to  convert 
others  are  to  be  exterminated.  I  need  not  say  that  this 
is  not  toleration,  but  persecution."  Mr.  Twining  had 
stated  that  he  was  "  particularly  alive "  to  the  religious 
opinions  and  customs  of  the  people  of  India,  with  which 
he  would  allow  no  interference,  and  Mr.  Fuller  proceeded 
to  enumerate  some  of  the  sanguinary  rites  of  Hindooism, 
and  then  asked  whether  such  customs  as  these  were  the 
proper  objects  of  toleration.  "The  natives  of  India," 
Mr.  Twining  tells  us,  are  a  religious  people,  and  in  this 
respect  they  differ,  he  fears,  from  the  inhabitants  of  this 
country.  "  If,"  says  Mr.  Fuller,  "  by  the  inhabitants  of 
this  country  Mr.  Twining  means  those  Christians  who  are 
alarmed  at  the  progress  of  Christianity,  I  fear  so  too.  If 
the  religion  of  the  natives,  however,  have  no  influence  on 
their  morals,  unless  it  be  to  corrupt  them,  it  will  argue 
nothing  in  its  favour.      And  that  this  is  the  case  every 


Digitized  by 


Google 


348  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  TIL 

friend  to  the  morality  of  the  New  Testament  who  has 
resided  in  India  can  bear  witness."     He  then  adduced 
evidence  of  the  low  state  of  morals  in  India,  from  the 
writings  of  Bernier,  Holwell,  Sir  John  Shore,  and  Dr. 
Carey,  and  proceeded  onwards  to  the  main  question, — 
the  political  danger  which,  it  was  affirmed,  must  inevitably 
attend  every  attempt  to  disturb  the  religious  prejudices 
of  the  natives.    "  Mr.  Twining  speaks  of  alarms  among 
the  natives ;  but  what  are  they  ?    Whent  or  where  did 
they  manifest  themselves  ?    If,  by  these  alarms,  he  means 
a  conviction  that  their  principles  will  gradually  fall  before 
the  light  of  the  gospel,  there  is  some  foundation  for  what 
he  says.     But  if  he  means  that,  on  account  of  anything 
done  or  doing  by  the  Missionaries,  they  are  apprehensive 
of  their  religion  being  suppressed  by  authority,  there  is  no 
proof  of  the  fact,  nor  any  attempt  to  prove  it.     The  only 
alarms  which  the  labours  of  the  Missionaries  have  excited, 
will  be  found  in  the  minds  of  Europeans,  who,  passing 
under  the  name  of  Christians,  are  tremblingly  alive  to  the 
danger  of  Christianity  making  any  progress  in  the  world." 
With  regard  to  the  safety  of  attempting  to  convert  the 
natives,  Mr.  Fuller  quotes  largely  from  a  paper  drawn  up 
on  the  subject  by  Mr.  Marshman,  in  which  he  maintained 
that  "  there  is  nothing  to  be  feared  from  the  attempt. 
The  Hindoos  resemble  an  immense  number  of  particles  of 
sand,  which  are  incapable  of  forming  a  solid  mass.     There 
is  no  bond  of  union  among  them,  nor  any  principle  capable 
of  effecting  it.     Their  hierarchy  has  no  head,  no  influen- 
tial body,  no  subordinate  orders.      The  brahmins,  as  well 
as  the  nation  at  large,  are  a  vast  number  of  disconnected 
atoms,  totally  incapable  of  cohesion.  .  .  .  For  the  sake  of  a 
little  gain,  a  brahmin  will  write  against  his  gods,  satis- 
fying himself  with  the  conviction  that  the  sin  belongs  to 
his  employer,  and  that  he  is  only  labouring  to  support 
himself."     The  first  part  of  Mr.  Fuller's  "  Apology  "  con- 
cluded  with    these    remarks :    "  Mr.    Twining    may  be 
disgusted  at  the  idea  of  the  Eastern  Empire  being  given 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1807.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPOBE  MISSION.  349 

us  by  Providence,  for  the  very  purpose  of  introducing  the 
gospel ;  but  if  it  be  so,  it  is  no  more  than  God's  having 
formerly  given  it  to  Cyrus,  for  Jacob)  his  servants  sake. 
Men  may  scorn  to  be  subservient  to  their  Maker ;  but, 
whether  they  consent  or  not,  it  will  be  so.  The  conquests 
of  Rome  made  way  for  the  introduction  of  Christianity 
into  Britain ;  and  those  of  Britain  jnay  make  way  for  its 
general  introduction  into  the  east-  4Who  knoweth 
whether  we  are  come  to  the  kingdom  for  such  a  time  as 
this  ?  If  we  altogether  hold  our  peace  at  this  time,  then 
may  their  enlargement  and  deliverance  arise  to  them  from 
another  place,  and  we  and  our  father's  house  may  be 
destroyed.' " 

The  first  reply  which  appeared  to  Major  Scott  Waring's 
first  attack,  was  published  by  the  Rev.  John  Owen,  on  the 
16th  of  December,  1807.  In  less  than  a  fort-  Mmorscottw». 
night,  the  Major  was  ready  with  his  rejoinder,  ring,i  f<*0llMter- 
which  extended  to  ninety-two  pages.  It  bore  every  ap- 
pearance of  having  been  compiled  in  great  haste,  and  con- 
tained more  than  the  usual  amount  of  repetition,  —  one 
charge,  indeed,  was  repeated  no  less  than  seven  times,  — 
and  the  deficiency  of  vigour  he  attempted  to  compensate 
for  by  an  increase  of  virulence.  The  Major  discovered  that 
he  had  committed  a  serious  error  in  embracing  within 
the  compass  of  his  censures  not  only  the  sectarians  whom 
he  cordially  detested,  but  clergymen  of  "our  excellent 
Church."  He  endeavoured  therefore  to  separate  his  oppo- 
nents, exculpating  as  far  as  possible  the  Bible  Society 
and  all  the  members  of  the  Church  of  England  whom  he 
had  included  in  his  attack,  and  confining  his  denunciations 
to  the  sectarians.  "  I  would  prefer  a  thousand  times  over 
an  establishment  of  Missionaries  in  India,  and  the  institu- 
tion of  free  schools  under  the  direction  of  our  excellent 
Archbishops  and  Bishops,  to  letting  loose  a  number  of 
ignorant  and  bigoted  sectarian  English  Missionaries,  pro- 
tected by  what  they  call  evangelical  clergymen."  "  I  can- 
not," says  he,  "  Reverend  Sir,  subscribe  to  the  justice  of 


Digitized  by 


Google 


350  HISTORY  OF  THE  6ERAMPORE  MISSION,      [Chap.  YIL 

your  panegyric  on  Mr.  William  Carey  as  he  is  called:  in 
the  list  of  persons  employed  by  the  East  India  Company, 
the  Beverend  Mr.  Carey  as  the  Bible  Society  denominates 
him,  or  Brother  Carey,  the  name  he  goes  by  at  Serampore. 
He  may  be  a  dissenter  of  great  piety,  a  good  man,  and  a 
competent  teacher  of  the  Bengalee,  Sanscrit,  and  Mahratta 
languages  in  the  College  of  Fort  William,  but  he   had 
the  presumption  to  act  in  defiance  of  the  fixed  regulations 
of  the  Company ;  and  the  time  he  chose  to  act  with  so 
much  contumacy  was  when  Lord  Wellesley  had  resigned 
the  Government,  when  Lord  Cornwallis  was  dying    at 
Ghazeepore,  when  Sir  George  Barlow  was  on  his  way  to 
Benares,  ancL  Mr.  Udny  was  left  in  the  sole  charge  of  the 
Government."     "  I  have  read  a  number  of  Mr.  Carey's 
letters,  from  which,  as  well  from  his  contumacious  conduct 
at  Dacca  (it  was  Dr.  Carey's  second  son  who  went   to 
Dacca),  it  is  clear  to  me,  at  least,  that  he  is  narrow-minded 
and  intemperate.     I  am  sure  you  have  too  correct  a  taste 
to  admire  the  puritanical  cant  that  is  contained  in  Brother 

Carey's  letters The  East  India  Company  gave 

the  English  Missionaries  in  India  no  authority  to  act  as 
they  have  done.  No  Act  of  Parliament  has  passed  to 
sanction  their  proceedings.  They  were  not  appointed  by 
the  prelates  of  our  Church  to  exercise  missionary  functions 
abroad ;  why  then  may  not  a  layman  of  the  Church  point 
out  what  he  conceives  to  be  very  improper  conduct  in 
sectarian  laymen,  without  exciting  so  violent  an  attack 
from  a  clergyman  of  the  Church  of  England  ?  "  The  chief 
argument  of  his  second  pamphlet,  was  the  imminent  danger 
to  which  our  Indian  empire  was  exposed  by  these  Mis- 
sionary exertions,  and  the  absolute  necessity  of  their  im- 
mediate recal,  if  we  were  desirous  of  preserving  it.  Three 
of  the  native  converts  had  been  driven  from  a  village, 
where  they  had  endeavoured  to  collect  an  audience,  upon 
which  Major  Scott  Waring  remarks :  —  "A  whole  village 
rose  against  three  native  converts.  The  fact  is  mentioned 
by  Mr.  Ward,  an  English  Missionary  ;  who,  after  he  has 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1807.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SBRAMFORB  MISSION.  351 

mentioned  it,  quotes  the  following  words,  spoken  by  our 
Blessed  Saviour  to  his  disciples,  c  Think  you  I  am  come  to 
send  peace  on  the  earth  ?  I  tell  you,  nay.'  These  words 
(which,  considered  with  their  context,  most  evidently  apply 
to  the  destruction  of  Jerusalem,  which  our  Blessed  Saviour 
predicted  would  happen  before  the  generation  then  exist- 
ing had  passed  away)  this  English  Missionary  applies  to 
a  very  alarming  commotion  —  in  fact  to  an  insurrection 
to  the  extent  of  all  the  people  that  were  within  sight  or 
hearing.  Is  it  proper  that  this  English  Missionary  should 
be  allowed  to  remain  in  India  ?  "  The  Missionaries  had 
said,  that  they  could  not  enter  a  bigoted  city  without 
creating  universal  alarm,  —  alluding  to  the  alarm  which 
would  arise  from  their  appearance  as  Englishmen,  —  and 
he  observes  on  this  circumstance :  — "  Are  Englishmen  who 
create  so  universal  an  alarm,  wherever  they  appear,  fit  to 
remain  in  India  ?  .  .  .  Upon  every  principle  of  justice  as 
well  as  policy,  it  is  generally  admitted,  that  we  are  bound 
to  foster  and  protect  the  religion  of  Mahomed  and  the 
Shaster,  as  long  as  fifty  millions  of  people,  whom  Provi- 
dence has  placed  under  our  rule,  shall  be  invincibly  at- 
tached (as  unquestionably  they  now  are)  to  those  religions. 
The  utmost  efforts  that  man  can  use  will  not  be  able  to 
persuade  them  that  a  single  Englishman  can  venture  to 
act,  in  any  instance,  against  that  absolute  authority  which 
they  suppose  to  be  vested  in  the  Supreme  Government' 
over  British  as  well  as  native  subjects,  and  they  must 
naturally  suppose  that  everything  done  by  the  English 
Missionaries  was  done  under  the  authority  and  approba- 
tion of  the  Governor-General  and  Council.  Considering 
as  I  do  the  nature  of  the  Government  of  India,  the  cha- 
racter of  the  people,  their  invincible  attachment  to  their 
religion,  and  the  immense  disproportion  between  thirty 
thousand  British  subjects  (which  is  the  extent  of  our 
population,  including  the  whole  army)  and  fifty  millions 
of  native  subjects,  I  am  of  opinion  that  no  sort  of  inter- 
ference with  them  on  the  subject  of  religion  can  be  at- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


352  HISTORY  OF  THE  SEBAMPORB  MISSION.      [Chap.  VII. 

tempted  without  immediate  danger,  and  ultimately  effect- 
ing our  destruction  in  India."  The  skill  with  which  the 
Vellore  Mutiny  and  the  proclamation  of  the  Madras 
Government  were  brought  in,  to  show  the  necessity  of 
recalling  the  Missionaries,  is  worthy  of  particular  note.  It 
was  believed  by  the  native  troops  on  the  Coast  of  Coro- 
mandel,  that  it  was  the  wish  of  Government  to  convert 
them  by  forcible  means  to  Christianity.  This  was  a  fact 
admitted  by  the  proclamation,  —  therefore  confidence  can- 
not be  restored  while  an  English  missionary  remains  in 
India,  and  while  our  Holy  Scriptures  are  circulated  among 
the  people  gratuitously.  Not  only,  however,  was  there 
danger  in  the  attempt  to  convert  the  natives,  but  the 
attempt  itself  must  inevitably  be  unsuccessful.  "  Of  the 
probability  of  success,  I  never  did  entertain  the  most  distant 
hope  or  expectation.  .  .  .  The  question  is  this,  whether 
it  be  practicable  to  convert  the  natives  of  India  to  the 
Christian  religion  by  human  means,  and  although  you, 
Reverend  Sir,  seem  to  think  this  a  question  too  shocking 
to  be  endured,  I  see  neither  absurdity  nor  sin  in  thus 
stating  it,  and  avowing  that  by  human  means  the  people 
of  India  never  will  be  converted  to  Christianity."  He  then 
proceeded  to  enumerate  the  human  means  which  had  been 
devised  for  the  conversion  of  the  natives,  and  added,  "  If 
these  means  should  receive  the  sanction  of  the  Legislature, 
I  do  not  believe  they  would  produce  the  wished  for  effect, 
but  I  firmly  believe  that  one  year  would  complete  the 
destruction  of  the  British  power  in  India."  He  closed  his 
pamphlet  by  assuring  his  opponent  that  for  fifty  years 
he  had  been  in  the  habit  of  reading  the  Scriptures  and 
the  commentaries  of  our  most  approved  writers,  that  he 
had  gone  farther  and  read  Romaine  and  Dr.  Hawker,  that 
he  took  in  the  Christian  Observer,  and  generally  read  the 
Evangelical  Magazine,  —  yet  it  appeared  that  in  the  Pro- 
prietor's opinion  he  had  committed  as  great  a  sin  by  ex- 
posing what  he  conceived  to  be  the  absurdity  of  English 
Missionaries  in  India,  and  stating  the  danger  which  he 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1807.]  HISTOBY  OF  THE  SBRAMPORB  MISSION.  353 

thought  might  arise  from  their  temerity,  as  if  he  had 
blasphemed  our  Holy  Scriptures. 

Mr.  Fuller's  second  Apology  begins  with  an  examina- 
tion of  the  second  pamphlet  of  Major  Scott  Waring,  and 
he  takes  up  the  question  of  political  danger  Mr.Fuiier't 
from  Missionary  labours  on  the  broadest  ground,  ,econd  Apol0KJ- 
in  his  Introduction.  "  We  may  be  told  that  the  greater 
part  of  our  opponents  profess  to  be  Christians,  and  that 
their  opposition  is  merely  on  political  considerations.  I 
might  meet  them  upon  this  ground,  and  deny  that  the 
progress  of  the  Gospel,  in  any  country  or  under  any 
circumstances,  can  be  unfriendly  to  its  political  welfare. 
But  it  would  be  compromising  the  honour  of  the  Gospel 
to  rest  its  defence  on  this  principle.  If  Christianity  be 
true,  it  is  of  such  importance  that  no  political  considera- 
tions are  sufficient  to  weigh  against  it ;  nor  ought  they 
for  a  moment  to  be  put  into  competition  with  it.  If 
Christianity  be  true,  it  is  of  God ;  and  if  it  be  of  God,  to 
oppose  its  progress  on  the  grounds  of  political  expediency, 
is  the  same  thing  as  to  tell  our  Maker  that  we  will  not 
have  him  to  reign  over  us,  unless  his  Government  be 
subservient  to  our  temporal  interests."  In  reference  to 
the  general  character  of  the  Major's  pamphlet  Mr.  Fuller 
observes :  "  We  have  his  whole  strength  in  his  former 
Preface,  no  new  facts  are  adduced,  nor  new  arguments 
from  the  old  ones :  almost  all  is  repetition.  Thus  he  re- 
peats the  base  calumnies,  of  our  bribing  beggars  to  become 
Christians  —  of  our  sending  out  thousands  a  year  to  sup- 
port them  —  of  our  not  having  made  one  good  convert  — 
of  the  converts  having  lost  caste  before  they  were  bap- 
tized, &c,  and,  thus,  seven  times  over,  he  has  repeated 
the  words  of  Mr.  Marshman,  on  "  an  alarm  being  excited 
in  a  bigoted  city  by  the  appearance  of  a  European  Mis- 
sionary, which  after  all  respects  him  not  as  a  Missionary, 
but  merely  a  European."  Although  Major  Scott  Waring 
had  said  "  that  he  was  anxious  to  preserve  the  manners  of 
a  gentleman  in  arguing  this  question  of  Missions,"  yet  he 

VOL.  I.  A  A 

Digitized  by  VjOOQlC 


354  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPOBE  MISSION.      [Chap.  YTL 

had  inflicted  a  gross  and  wanton  insult  on  the  memory  of 
the  dead,  by  the  gratuitous  statement  regarding  Mr. 
Thomas's  having  died  raving  mad.  In  reference  to  the 
Major's  desire  to  remain  at  peace  with  the  members  of 
the  Church  of  England,  and  to  carry  the  war  only  into 
the  Dissenting  camp,  Mr.  Fuller  observes :  "  It  seems  to 
grieve  the  Major  that  Christians  of  almost  all  denomina- 
tions are  united  against  him ;  but  he  and  his  colleagues 
have  to  thank  themselves  for  this.  Had  their  attack  been 
directed  merely  against  a  few  Dissenters,  they  might  have 
had  some  chance  of  succeeding,  but  it  is  so  broad  that  no 
man  who  has  any  feeling  for  Christianity  can  view  it  in 
any  other  light  than  an  attempt  to  crush  it  in  our  Eastern 
possessions.  It  is  an  attempt  to  stop  the  progress  of  the 
Bible,  and  therefore  must  be  absolutely  Anti-Christian. 
Whether  Major  Scott  Waring  perceives  his  error  in  this 
respect,  and  wishes  to  repair  it,  or  whatever  be  his  motive, 
he  certainly  labours  in  this  his  second  performance  to 
divide  his  opponents ;  first,  he  would  fain  persuade  them 
that  he  himself  is  a  Christian,  which  it  is  very  possible  he 
may  be  in  his  own  esteem;  and  secondly,  he  would  be 
very  glad  to  single  out  these  sectarian  Missionaries  as  the 
only  object  of  his  dislike.  It  grieves  him  sorely  that  they 
should  have  been  encouraged  by  clergymen.  If  they  would 
bjat  discard  these  men,  I  know  not,  but  they  might  obtain 
forgiveness  for  being  evangelical." 

Mr.  Twining  and  Major  Scott  Waring  were  now  joined 
in  their  Missionary  crusade  by  a  colleague  in  the  person 
The  Bengal  ofl-  of  a  "Bengal  Officer,"  Col.  Stewart,  generally 
cert  pamphlet.    known  -m  in(Jia  under  the  name  of  "  Hindoo 

Stewart."  He  had  abjured  Christianity,  and  become  a 
worshipper  of  the  Hindoo  deities.  He  exposed  himself 
equally  to  the  ridicule  of  the  natives,  and  the  contempt  of 
his  own  countrymen,  by  going  down  in  the  morning  to 
the  Ganges,  with  flowers  and  sacrificial  vessels,  to  perform 
his  ablutions  according  to  the  Hindoo  ritual.  At  a  sub- 
sequent-period, he  asked  permission  to  accompany  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1808.]  HISTORY  OF  THE   SERAMPORE  MISSION.  355 

army  in  its  progress  towards  the  capital  of  Nepal,  that  he 
might  have  an  opportunity  of  paying  his  devotions  at  a 
celebrated  shrine  of  Shiva,  which  lay  on  the  route.  On 
the  present  occasion,  his  pamphlet  did  eminent  service  to 
the  cause  of  Christian  Missions  by  the  ridicule  it  brought 
on  the  cause  of  their  opponents.  The  Bengal  Officer  exhi- 
bited the  most  profound  respect  for  the  Hindoo  religion, 
and  entertained  the  most  lofty  conception  of  the  morals 
and  virtues  of  the  Hindoos,  and  he  now  came  forward  to 
denounce  the  sacrilegious  attack  of  the  Missionaries  on 
the  sacred  and  venerable  fabric  of  Hindooism.  Others 
had  preceded  him  in  the  attempt  to  show  that  all  efforts 
to  convert  the  Hindoos  must  inevitably  prove  abortive, 
and  that  they  must  be  attended  with  political  danger.  It 
was  reserved  for  him  to  maintain  that  it  was  altogether 
unnecessary,  in  as  much  as  the  Hindoos  were  already  in 
possession  of  a  code  of  religion  and  morals  superior  to  any 
thing  we  could  offer  them.  In  reference  to  the  excellence 
of  the  shasters,  he  remarked :  "  I  would  repose  the  Hindoo 
system  on  the  broad  basis  of  its  own  mferits ;  convinced 
that,  on  the  enlarged  principles  of  moral  reasoning,  it 
little  needs  the  meliorating  hand  of  Christianity  to  render 
its  votaries  a  sufficiently  correct  and  moral  people,  for  all 
the  useful  purposes  of  civilised  society ;  for,  4  we  know 
that  the  law  is  good,  if  a  man  use  it  lawfully/  "  On  the 
revolting  picture  which  Mr.  Buchanan  had  drawn  of  the 
Hindoo  deities  he  remarks :  "  I  must  confess,  that,  before 
I  perused  his  book,  I  had  always  regarded  as  moral  Gods, 
the  Indian  Triad,  Brahma,  Vishnou,  and  Seeva  ;  who 
are  usually  considered  as  personifications  of  the  Divinity, 
in  the  respective  attributes  of  Creation,  Preservation, 
and  Destruction.  ...  It  also  appeared  to  me,  that  the 
active  power  of  those  divinities,  respectively  manifested 
in  the  persons  of  Sbreswati,  Lutchmee,  and  Doorga, 
could  be  considered  in  no  other  light  than  as  types  of 
virtue.  .  .  .  Wherever  I  look  around  me,  in  the  vast 
region  of  Hindoo  Mythology,  I  discover  piety  in  the  garb 

A  A   2 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


356  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Cm*.  VII. 

of  allegory  :  and  I  see  Morality,  at  every  turn,  blended  "with 
every  tale;  and,  as  far  as  I  can  rely  on  my  own  judgment, 
it  appears  the  most  complete  and  ample  system  of  Moral 
Allegory,  that  the  world  has  ever  produced."  To  illus- 
trate the  excellence  of  the  Hindoo  system  he  quotes  the 
following  representation,  which  the  Poorans  give  of 
the  brahmin :  "  In  his  heart,  the  moon ;  in  his  auditory 
nerves,  the  guardians  of  the  eight  regions ;  in  his  pro- 
gressive motion,  Vishnu  ;  in  muscular  force,  Hara  ;  in 
his  organs  of  speech,  Agni  ;  in  excretion,  Mitra  ;  in  pro- 
creation, Brahma."  "It  is  true  that  they  worship  the 
Deity  through  the  medium  of  images ;  but  we  satisfac- 
torily learn  from  the  <jeeta,  that  it  is  not  the  mere  image, 
but  the  invisible  spirit,  that  they  thus  worship."  He 
then  bursts  forth  in  the  following  superstitious  rhapsody : 
"  How  consolatory  therefore,  to  the  Hindoo,  is  the  notion 
of  that  purgatory,  where  the  soul,  in  a  state  of  penance, 
proportioned  to  its  mortal  impurity,  at  length,  after  nu- 
merous transmigrations  becomes  liberated  from  all  sublu- 
nary stain,  and  is  thus  ultimately  restored  to  the  mansion 
of  eternal  bliss,  the  prime  source  of  its  emanation !  " 

The  Bengal  Officer  was  constrained  to  admit  that 
there  were  some  rules  and  habits  among  the  Hindoos  , 
which  might  be  open  to  censure,  but  then  it  was  the  duty 
of  Government  to  set  about  the  reformation  of  this 
system  of  idolatry,  and  to  engage  the  services  of  the 
brahmins  in  these  benevolent  labours.  "  That  there  are 
many  reprehensible  customs  among  the  Hindoos,  the 
mere  offspring  of  superstition,  cannot,  unhappily,  be 
denied :  but  as  they  are  not  enjoined  by  the  Veda,  and  are 
chiefly  confined  to  certain  classes,  they  are  by  no  means 
invincible:  and  the  maturity  of  human  reason  will,  I 
trust,  bring  them,  at  length,  into  disuse.  I  would  en- 
deavour to  enlighten  them  on  those  points,  through  the 
medium  of  their  priests.  An  injunction  from  the  sfeat  of 
Government,  to  the  Colleges  of  Nuddeah,  Benares,  and 
other  places,  to  take  into  consideration  the  obnoxious 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1803.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SEKAMPOBE  MISSION.  357 

points  that  grate  the  feelings  of  humanity,  would  be  an 
expedient  of  more  effect  than  the  prohibitory  mandate  of 
our  Government.  In  whatever  reform  we  may  engage, 
we  must  take  the  brahmins  to  support  us ;  we  shall  other- 
wise have  the  multitude  against  us,  and  be  regarded  as 
despotic."  Even  the  immolation  of  widows  admitted  of 
palliation  and  almost  excited  his  admiration:  "Every 
feeling  mind  must  lament  that  infatuation  that  urges  the 
Hindoo  widow  to  burn  herself  with  the  corpse  of  her 
deceased  husband ;  it  is  an  instance  of  deluded  heroism, 
that  we  cannot  but  admire,  while  we  condemn."  It  has 
been  admitted  by  all  classes,  European  and  Native,  Chris- 
tians and  Hindoos,  that  the  Fukeers,  or  religious  mendi- 
cants in  India,  are  the  most  unmitigated  pests  of  society  ; 
but  the  Bengal  Officer  considers  that  their  pious  ex- 
ample might  become  a  source  of  great  edification.  "  That 
the  suppression  of  these  orders  would  contribute  greatly 
to  the  improvement  of  the  natives  of  Indostan,  I  very 
much  doubt;  nay,  I  should  rather  suppose  that  those 
whose  minds  are  not  totally  absorbed  in  worldly  conside- 
rations must  be  often  edified  by  the  pious  example  of 
those  wandering  classes,  who,  rejecting  the  usual  comforts 
ascribed  to  Asiatic  indolence,  undertake,  at  all  seasons  of 
the  year,  painful  journeys,  through  gloomy  forests  in- 
fested by  wild  beasts,  over  mountains  of  difficult  ascent, 
or  across  the  scorching  plains  of  Upper  India,  either  for 
the  expiation  of  their  sins,  the  discharge  of  pious  vows, 
or  with  a  view  of  rendering  the  Deity  propitious  to  their 
ultimate  hopes  of  future  beatitude.  Enlightened  by  their 
discourse,  and  emulating  their  piety,  the  house-keeper,  the 
mere  man  of  the  world,  is  thus  likely  to  become,  by  the 
improvement  of  his  morality,  a  better  subject  of  the  state, 
and  an  honester  member  of  the  community."  When  he 
comes  to  treat  of  the  morality  and  excellence  which  these 
inimitable  shasters  had  introduced  among  the  people,  he  is 
lost  in  extasy.  "  To  this,  if  I  could  presume  to  add  my 
own    humble    testimony,   an  experience   of    seven   and 

A  A    3 


Digitized  by 


Google 


358  HISTORY  OF  THE   SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  VII. 

twenty  years  would  enable  me,  at  least,  to  do  justice  to 
their  unexampled  honesty  and  fidelity.f,  "  Again,  I  must 
do  them  the  justice  to  declare,  that  I  have  never  met  with 
a  people,  exhibiting  more  suavity  of  manners,  or  more 
mildness  of  character,  or  a  happier  race  of  beings,  when 
left  to  the  undisturbed  performance  of  the  rites  of  their 
religion.  And  it  may  be  truly  said,  that,  if  Arcadian 
happiness  ever  had  existence,  it  must  have  been  rivalled 
in  Hindostan.  Cease,  then,  worthy  Missionaries,  to 
disturb  that  repose  that  forms  the  happiness  of  so  many 
millions  of  the  human  race;  a  procedure  that  can  only 
tend  '  to  set  a  man  at  variance  against  his  father,  and  the 
daughter  against  her  mother,  and  the  daughter-in-law 
against  the  mother-in-law ; '  nor  unhappily  cause,  by  an 
indiscreet,  though  perhaps  venial  zeal,  that  '  a  man's  foes 
shall  be  they  of  his  own  household.'  "  "  That  there  are 
some  great  points,  in  the  general  superstition  of  the 
Hindoos,  which  we  might  wish  to  see  retrenched,  is  not  to 
be  disputed,  but,  individually,  and  in  private  life,  I  see 
little  to  condemn ;  and  justly  to  say  of  any  people,  that 
they  are  mild,  modest,  and  obsequious ;  patient,  obedient, 
and  attentive ;  hospitable,  charitable,  and  benevolent ; 
honest,  sober,  temperate,  and  faithful ;  I  conceive  to  be  no 
small  praise.  Whenever,  therefore,  the  Christian  religion 
does  as  much  for  the  lower  orders  of  society  in  Europe, 
as  that  of  Brahma  thus  appears  to  have  done  for  the 
Hindoos,  I  shall  cheerfully  vote  for  its  establishment  in 
Hindostan." 

The  converts  to  Christianity  he  treats  with  even  more 
than  brahminical  hate :  "  Let  us,  therefore,  not  wound 
their  feelings,  by  sending  such  miscreants  among  them  ; 
the  refuse  of  their  own  tribes,  whom  they  can  regard 
only  with  abhorrence ;  and,  addressing  myself  to  the  good 
sense  of  our  Missionaries,  let  me  seriously  ask  them : 
what  opinion  must  the  brahmins  entertain  of  a  religion 
that  thus  receives  into  its  bosom  wretches  who  have  been 
deemed  unworthy  the  communion  of  their  friends,   are 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1808.]  HISTORY  OP  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  359 

*  considered  a  disgrace  to  their  families,  and  have  utterly 
rejected  the- society  of  the  virtuous  among  themselves ;  .  . 
•  .  .  renegadoes  from  the  faith  in  which  they  were  nursed, 
who,  perhaps,  suffering  restraint  under  the  severity  of  its 
discipline,  have  possibly,  in  seceding,  left  behind  them, 
with  its  forms,  the  sound  morality  that  it  inculcates  ? " 
The  impossibility  of  ever  converting  the  Hindoos  admits 
in  his  mind  of  no  doubt:  "  Those  pious  Preachers  of  the 
Gospel,  who  proceed  to  India  for  the  purpose  of  convert- 
ing the  Hindoos,  merit  the  thanks  of  the  Church  for  their 
good  intentions :  but  their  zeal  is  misapplied,  and  their 
labours  will  be  fruitless ;  no  Hindoo  of  any  respectability 
will  ever  yield  to  their  remonstrances."  But  the  attempt 
to  convert  them  will  be  attended  with  the  highest  danger : 
"  Is  it  wise,  is  it  politic,  is  it  even  safe,  to  institute  a  war 
of  sentiment  against  the  only  friends  of  any  importance 
we  seem  to  have  yet  left  in  India  —  our  faithful  subjects 
of  the  Ganges,  by  suffering  Missionaries,  or  our  own 
clergy,  to  preach  among  them  the  errors  of  idolatry  and 
superstition,  and  thus  disseminating  throughout  the 
public  mind,  the  seeds  of  distrust  and  disaffection,  to  the 
imminent  danger  of  every  energy  of  the  State  ?  "  In  the 
opinion  of  the  Bengal  Officer,  the  dangers  which  thus 
menace  our  British  dominion  in  the  East  had  been  in- 
duced by  men  who  were  acting  on  the  most  mercenary 
principles.  Mr.  Buchanan  had  no  object  but  to  obtain  a 
mitre,  and  the  Missionaries  were  disturbing  India  measly 
for  their  own  subsistence.  Of  the  former  he  remarks,  "'If 
contradictions  of  this  nature  can  tend  to  promote  Mr. 
Buchanan's  views,  I  should  be  sorry  to  stand  between 
him  and  the  object  of  his  research ;  should  that  object  be 
a  Bishopric,  I  think  his  zeal  and  good  intentions  establish 
a  fair  claim  to  consideration  ;  and  I  question  not,  but  he 
is  of  opinion  with  St.  Paul,  that  *  If  a  man  desires  the 
office  of  a  Bishop  he  desireth  a  good  work.'  "  Of  the  Mis- 
sionaries he  insinuates,  "If  the  conduct  of  the  Missionaries 

A   A    4 


Digitized  by 


Google 


360  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  VII. 

has  here  so  unwisely  forced  itself  on  the  attention  of  the- 
public,  and  thus  rendered  them  obnoxious  to  the  dis- 
pleasure of.  our  Government  in  the  East,  in  having,  un- 
sanctioned by  its  authority,  assumed  the  dangerous  pro- 
vince of  attempting  to  regulate  the  consciences  of  its 
native  subjects,  to  the  manifest  tendency  of  disturbing 
that  repose  and  public  confidence  that  form  at  this 
moment  the  chief  security  of  our  precarious  tenure  in 
Hindostan :  if  men,  thus  labouring  for  subsistence  in  their 
vocation,  and  under  the  necessity  of  making  converts, 
at  any  rate,  in  order  to  insure  the  continuance  of  their 
allowances  and  the  permanency  of  their  mission,  rashly 
venture  to  hurl  the  bigot  anathema  of  intolerance,  at  the 
head  of  the  *  Barbarian  Hindoos ; '  and,  unadvisedly,  to 
vilify  the  revered  repositories  of  their  faith,  we  may  find 
some  colour  of  excuse,  in  the  seeming  necessity  under 
which  they  act/'  After  the  first  edition  of  his  pamphlet 
had  been  printed  the  Bengal  Officer  learnt  that  Seram- 
pore  had  been  captured  by  the  English,  and  he  seized  the 
opportunity  of  suggesting  that  the  suppression  of  their 
Mission  must  now  be  an  easy  matter  :  "  As  the  head 
station  of  the  Bengal  Missionaries  is  at  the  Danish  settle- 
ment of  Serampore,  and  as  that  place  is  now  under  our 
immediate  control,  the  complete  suppression  of  their  func- 
tions must,  therefore,  be  a  work  of  great  facility."  The 
pamphlet  wound  up  with  a  solemn  appeal  to  the  public 
authorities  in  England :  a  The  affair  has  now  assumed  an 
aspect  of  such  importance,  as  to  demand  the  utmost  vigi- 
lance and  energy  of  our  Government  in  India,  to  guard 
against  the  evils  that  follow  in  its  train:  —  To  the 
Honourable  Company  therefore,  and  to  the  Empire  at 
large,  that  Government  stands  pledged,  by  every  sense  of 
imperious  duty,  and  every  consideration  of  personal 
safety  to  our  countrymen  abroad,  to  obviate,  by  the  most 
prompt  and  decisive  interposition  of  their  authority,  the 
menaced  consequences  of  that  current  of  indignation  now 
raised  in  the  minds  of  our  Indian  subjects,  by  the  impo- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1806.]  HISTOET  OF  THE  SEBAMPORB  MISSION.  361 

litic,  unwise,  and  improper  conduct  of  those  misguided 
Missionaries." 

Mr.  Fuller  opens  his  reply  to  this  pamphlet  by  stating 
that  it  surpassed  all  that  had  gone  before  it.  "  Messrs. 
Twining  and  Scott  Waring  were  desirous  of  Mr.  Failed 
being  considered  as  Christians;  but  if  this  Reply' 
writer  does  not  formally  avow  his  infidelity,  he  takes  so 
little  care  to  disguise  it,  that  no  doubt  can  remain  on 
the  subject.  After  having  ascribed  the  Protestant  religion 
to  reason  rather  than  to  revelation,  pretended  that  the 
immortality  of  the  soul  was.  first  revealed  in  Hindoostan, 
questioned  whether  Christianity  be  at  all  necessary  to  the 
improvement  of  the  Indian  system  of  moral  ordinances, 
preferred  the  heathen  notion  of  transmigration  to  the 
Christian  doctrine  of  future  punishment,  and  framed  a 
Geeta  of  his  own  in  favour  of  purgatory,  after  all  this,  I 
say,  and  much  more,  can  he,  with  any  consistency,  pre- 
tend to  be  a  Christian  ?"  In  the  course  of  his  reply,  Mr, 
Fuller  quotes  the  description  of  the  thoroughly  brahmin- 
ised  Englishman,  given  by  Dr.  Tennant,  who  had  been 
Chaplain  to  her  Majesty's  forces  in  India,  during  many 
of  the  years  in  which  the  Bengal  Officer  had  resided 
there :  "  It  is  curious  to  observe  how  the  indifference,  or 
rather  the  dislike  of  some  old  settlers  in  India,  is  expressly 
against  the  system  of  their  forefathers.  It  is  compared 
with  the  Hindoo  Institutions  with  an  affectation  of  impar- 
tiality, while  in  the  meantime  the  latter  system  is  extolled 
in  its  greatest  puerilities  and  follies ;  its  grossest  fables 
are  always  asserted  to  .convey  some  hidden,  but  sound 
lessons  of  wisdom.  They  inveigh  against  the  schemes, 
disputes  and  differences  of  the  western  world,  ascrib- 
ing them  solely  to  religious  dogmata.  They  palliate  the 
most  fanatical  and  most  painful  of  the  Hindoo  rites,  and 
never  fail  in  discovering  some  salutary  influence  which 
they  shed  upon  society.  Wrapt  up  in  devout  admira- 
tion of  the  beauty  and  sublimity  of  the  Vedas,  they 
affect  *  to  triumph  in  their  supposed  superiority  over  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


362  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORB  MISSION.       [Chap.  VII. 

simplicity  of  the  Hebrew  and  Greek  Scriptures."     The 
Bengal  Officer  took  up  his  pen  professedly  on  the  occa- 
sion of  receiving  a  manuscript  translation  of  one  of  the 
Serampore  tracts,  the  "  Gospel  Messenger,"  and  it  is  upon 
the  expressions  contained  in  it,  that  he  founded  his  ad- 
vice to  the  Court  of  Directors,  now  that  Serampore  was 
in  their  possession,  to  suppress  the   Mission  altogether. 
The  translation  was  made  by  some  enemy  of  Christian 
truth,  who  did  not  venture  to  verify  it-  by  his  name,  and 
whose  object  was  to  rouse  the  fears  and  indignation  of 
the  Directors  and  of  Government  against  the  Missionaries. 
Neither  was  the  translation  correct.     The  sentences  which 
had  been  pointed  out  in  the  pamphlet  as  peculiarly  inflam- 
matory were  not  to  be  found  in  it.     "  Nothing,"  says  Mr. 
Fuller,  "  is  said  in  the  tract  itself  about  *  their  books  of 
philosophy/  nor  are  they  said  to  be  *  fit  for  the  amuse- 
ment of  children/     The  Hindoos  are  not  called  'barba- 
rians,'  nor  their  shasters,   the   shasters   of   barbarians, 
nor  are  they  desired  to  abominate  them.     Thus  has  this 
tract  not  only  been  mistranslated,  and  its  mistranslations 
largely  quoted  and  descanted  on,  but  our  adversaries  have 
represented  its  circulation  in  India  as  that  which  must 
needs  have  provoked  the  natives  to  rise  up  against  the 
Missionaries.       It  was  this  that   Major   Scott    Waring 
alleged  as  a  reason  why  he  should  not  have  wondered,  if 
they  had  thrown  them  into  the  Ganges.     Yet  when  the 
truth  comes  to  be  stated,  it  is  found  that  the  inflammatory 
passages  in  the  tract  have  been  inserted  by  some  unknown 
person,  engaged  in  the  same  cause  with  himself"     It  was 
not  a  translation,  but  a  caricature  of  the  original.      Mr. 
Fuller  combated  the  remarks  of  the  Bengal  Officer,  under 
three  divisions,  the  morality  of  the  Hindoo  system,  the 
moral  character  of  the  Hindoos,  and  the  conduct  of  the 
Missionaries    and    their    converts.       His    refutation    of 
Colonel  Stewart's  assertions  was  complete  and  unanswer- 
able.    It  would  be  redundant  at  this  time  of  day,  when 
the  morality  of  Hindooism,  and  the  morals  of  its  votaries, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1808.]  HISTORY  OF  THE   SERAMPORB  MISSION.  363 

are  so  fully  understood,  and  the  public  mind  in  England 
is  so  entirely  made  up  on  the  subject,  to  recapitulate  any 
portion  of  Mr.  Fuller's  reply  on  these  points.     He  was 
not  aware  that  the  Bengal  Officer  affected  to  be  a  Hindoo 
when  he  said :  "  If  the  writer  be  a  heathen,  let  him  cast  in 
his  lot  .among  heathens.     Let  him,  if  he  should  become 
intoxicated,  attend  to  the  recipe  of  his  *  divine  Menu  ; '  let 
him,  in  order  to  atone  for  his  offence,  drink  more  spirit 
in  flame,  till  he  severely  burn  his  body ;  or,  let  him  drink, 
boiling  hot,  until   he  die,  the  urine  of  a  cow,  or  pure 
water,  or  juice  expressed  from  cow  dung ;  let  him,  if  he 
should  be  vicious,  expect  to  become  a  cat,  or  a  dog,  or 
some  more  despicable  creature.     But  we  are  Christians, 
and  have  learned  another  lesson."     Regarding  the  moral 
character  of  the  Hindoos,  Mr.  Fuller  cited  various  autho- 
rities  from  Tamerlane,  Dr.  Tennant,  Sir  James  Mackin- 
tosh, Sir  William  Jones,  and  Orme.     He  alluded  more 
particularly  to  the  instance  of  audacious  mendacity  exhi- 
bited, in  the  case  of  Colonel  Wilford,  by  the  priests  them- 
selves, in  the   holiest  spot  in  Hindoostan,  at  the  great 
fountain  of  Hindoo  learning  and  religion.     That  learned 
antiquary  had  long  resided  at  Benares,  in  the  society  of  its 
learned  pundits,  with  the  view  of  obtaining  information 
from  the  shasters  in  the  prosecution  of  his  researches  into 
the  ancient  history  of  Egypt  and  India.      His  own  pundit 
having  discovered  the  poiuts  on  which  the  Colonel  was 
desirous  of  ascertaining  the  existence  of  any  coincidence 
between  the  Hindoo  records  and  those  of  other  nations  of 
antiquity,  fabricated  sentences  to  support  these  analogies, 
and  foisted  them  into  the  manuscripts  which  he  produced. 
The  fraud  was  at  length  detected,  and  the  pundit  dis- 
graced.    As  a  last  effort  to  save  his  reputation  he  brought 
ten  brahmins,  not  only  as  his  compurgators,  but  to  swear 
by  whatever  was  most  sacred  in  their  religion,  that  the 
extracts    were  genuine.        Colonel  Wilford   would  not 
permit  the  ceremonial  of  perjury  to  be  completed,  and 
dismissed  them  from  his  presence  with  indignation. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Reply  by  an 
•nonymoo* 
writer. 


364  HISTORY  OF  THE   SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chat.  VII. 

The  most  severe  blow,  however,  which  was  inflicted  on 
the  author  of  the  Vindication  of  the  Hindoos  came  from  a 
writer  whose  name  did  not  transpire,  who  had  passed  many 
years  in  India,  and  was  as  much  master  of  the 
subject  as  his  opponent.  He  cited  Sir  William 
Jones's  opinion  of  the  Institutes  of  Menu, 
which  the  Bengal  Officer  was  anxious  to  extol  at  the 
expense  of  Christianity.  "  It  is  a  system  of  despotism  and 
priestcraft,  both  indeed  limited  by  law,  but  artfully  con- 
spiring to  give  mutual  support.  It  abounds  in  minute 
and  childish  formalities,  with  ceremonies  equally  absurd 
and  often  ridiculous;  the  punishments  are  partial  and 
fanciful,  for  some  crimes  dreadfully  cruel,  for  others  re- 
prehensibly  slight ;  and  the  very  morals,  though  rigid 
enough  on  the  whole,  are  in  one  or  two  instances,  as  in 
the  case  of  light  oaths  and  perjuries,  unaccountably 
relaxed."  The  Vindicator  had  extolled  in  no  measured 
language  the  Hindoo  goddesses,  Doorga  Bhuvanee  and 
Kali  Bhuvanee  as  "  a  speaking  picture  of  good  sense, 
representing  the  good  and  evil  principle  contending  for 
supremacy."  Of  the  latter  most  loathsome  and  abominable 
deity,  says  his  opponent,  we  have  seen  in  the  collection 
of  a  friend,  a  large  molten  image,  which  exhibits  every- 
thing that  can  be  considered  disgusting  in  a  female  form. 
The  evidence  of  the  superior  excellence  of  the  Hindoo 
religion  and  morality  may  be  seen,  he  observes,  in  the 
translation  of  the  Calica  Pooran,  by  Mr.  Blacquiere,  from 
which  he  gives  the  following  extracts :  "  Birds,  tortoises, 
alligators,  fish,  ....  men,  and  blood  drawn  from  the 
offerer's  own  body,  are  looked  upon  as  proper  oblations  to 
the  goddess.  By  a  human  sacrifice,  Devi  is  pleased  one 
thousand  years ;  and  by  a  sacrifice  of  three  men,  one 
hundred  thousand  years.  .  .  .  Now  attend  to  the  particu- 
lars relative  to  the  offering  of  human  blood.  Let  a  victim 
be  sacrificed  at  a  place  of  holy  worship,  or  at  a  cemetery 
where  dead  bodies  are  buried.  ....  Having  immolated 
a  human  victim  with  all  the  requisite  ceremonies  at  a 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1808  ]  HISTORY   OF  THE   SERAMPORE  MISSION.  365 

cemetery  or  holy  place,  let  the  sacrificers  be  cautious  not 
to  cast  their  eyes  on  the  victim.  .  .  .  The  victim  must 
be  a  person  of  good  appearance,  and  be  prepared  by  ablu- 
tions and  requisite  ceremonies."  ^  When  the  stroke,"  says 
another  writer,  "  which  severs  the  head  of  the  victim  from 
his  body,  is  given,  the  cymbals  strike  up,  the  Sancha  and 
buccinium  are  blown,  and  the  whole  assembly  shouting, 
besmear  their  faces  with  blood,  they  roll  themselves  in  it, 
accompanying  their  dances  with  obscene  songs  and 
gestures."  Colonel  Stewart  asserted  that  although  he 
had  visited  many  temples  of  celebrity  in  Bengal,  Benares, 
Muttra,  Canouge,  and  Hurdwar,  and  a  hundred  places 
besides,  he  had  never  witnessed  any  exhibition  at  their 
shrines  which  had  the  appearance  of  indecency.  The 
writer  asks  whether  he  had  ever  seen  the  Lingam,  which 
is  worshipped  in  every  district  in  India,  and  then  quotes 
the  detestable  fable  which  the  shasters  give  concerning  it, 
and  cites  from  the  pages  of  Sonnerat — an  unexceptionable 
witness  —  the  abominations  connected  with  the  worship 
of  it,  and  adds,  "will  the  Vindicator  again  ask,  'Wljat  can 
the  Missionaries  propose  to  teach  to  such  a  people  ?'  If 
so,  may  we  not  ask  in  our  turn,  What  it  is  that  can  be 
called  wise,  decent,  good,  or  profitable,  concerning  the  way 
of  salvation,  that  thev  have  not  to  learn  ? "  This  able 
pamphlet  closed  with  the  following  remark :  "  Teach  the 
people  the  knowledge  of  the  true  God,  by  an  unrestrained 
circulation  of  the  Holy  Scriptures  in  their  own  languages, 
and  let  holy  and  sensible  men,  such  as  the  present  Mis- 
sionaries, who  exemplify  in  their  life  and  conversation  the 
truths  contained  in  the  sacred  volume,  be  allowed  to  in- 
struct them;  and  let  them  have,  as  far  as  their  local 
situation  can  admit,  the  same  civil  constitution  as  our- 
selves, then  the  idolatrous  superstition  of  the  Hindoos  and 
the  wordly  pride  and  empty  boast  of  the  Mohamedans  will 
yield,  not  to  the  force  of  arms,  for  Christianity  knows 
nothing  of  these,  but  to  the  enlightening  and  heart-con- 
verting influence  of  that  eternal  truth,  which  when  pro- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


366  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORB  MISSION.      [Chap-  VII. 

posed  in  its  simplicity,  God  will  ever  accompany  with  the 
unction  of  his  spirit ;  and  the  truth  thus  becoming  mighty, 
must  necessarily  prevail." 

To  these  papers  the  bengal  Officer  soon  published  an 
elaborate  reply,  from  which  we  offer  a  few  quotations, 

chiefly  to  show  how  little  regard  he  considered 
B?n^offl4?e   it  necessary  to  pay  to  the  truth.     The  state* 

ment  of  Colonel  Wilford  regarding  the  falsi- 
fication of  the  Hindoo  shasters  by  his  pundit,  and  the 
offer  of  ten  other  pundits  to  swear  that  the  interpolated 
passages  were  genuine,  he  treats  as  a  fable,  simply 
because  it  was  impossible  that  men  so  holy  as  the  brahmins 
could  act  so  basely.  "  That  in  the  hearing  of  numbers 
who  understand  the  sacred  language  they  thus  read,  — 
that,  seated  before  the  revered  altars  of  their  gods,  and 
in  the  awful  presence  of  that  Being,  who  hears  all  and 
sees  all, — they  should  thus  wantonly  lose  sight  of  every 
rational  principle  of  common  sense,  of  common  honesty, 
prudence,  and  discretion  seems  a  degree  of  mental  imbe- 
cility and  moral  turpitude  too  monstrous  for  rational  con- 
ception. ...  It  is  not  true."  But  in  another  portion  of 
the  pamphlet  he  endeavoured  to  palliate  the  '^enormity  of 
this  tremendous  invocation."  "  Nor  must  we  here  neglect 
suggesting  that,  when  the  pundit  so  solemnly  invocated 
the  vengeance  of  heaven  if  the  extracts  were  not  genuine, 
he  probably  meant  no  more  than  that  they  were  relatively 
so,  in  reference  to  the  College  records"  Had  the  Bengal 
Officer  been  living  at  a  subsequent  period  in  India,  he 
would  have  heard  of  brahmin  pundits  of  the  Courts 
receiving  bribes  to  an  almost  incredible  amount  for  fabri- 
cating legal  precepts  to  suit  their  own  interests ;  he  would 
have  known  that  of  all  the  native  functionaries  employed 
in  the  administration  of  civil  justice,  a  pundit  is  the  man 
least  to  be  depended  on.  Mr.  Fuller  had  stated  that  even 
if  the  shasters  had  inculcated  the  most  sublime  morality, 
still  as  they  existed  only  in  a  language  which  was  not 
in   colloquial  use   and   was  intelligible  only   to    a   few 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1808.]  HISTORY  OF   THE   SBRAMPORB  MISSION.  367 

students,  the  public  morals  of  the  country  could  not  be 
benefited  thereby.  In  reply  to  this,  the  Bengal  Officer — 
trusting  to  the  ignorance  which  prevailed  on  Indian  sub- 
jects—  had  the  temerity  to  assert  that  he  had  had  two  or 
three  brahmins  in  his  own  family  who  spoke  Sanscrit ; 
that  there  was  scarcely  a  temple  in  Hindostan  where  it 
was  not  daily  used ;  that  on  every  occasion  when  he  had 
attended  their  temples  or  their  holy  convocations  the 
general  conversation  of  the  pundits  had  been  invariably 
in  Sanscrit.  He  was  surprised  that  the  Reviewers  and 
his  opponents  should  still  appear  to  be  so  ignorant  of 
44  the  exalted  idea  entertained  of  the  deity  by  the  Hindoos, 
when  there  was  scarcely  a  single  bearer,  who  carried  the 
palankeen  in  India,  who  had  not  as  exalted  a  notion  of 
God  as  ever  Socrates  entertained.  When  the  Hindoos 
consider  that  the  divine  spark  of  etherial  essence  which 
enlightens  our  mortal  frame,  is  but  a  ray  from  the  grand 
fountain  of  light,  —  a  celestial  fire,  —  the  grand  creative 
principle  of  life,  —  BRAHM ;  when  they  think  thus,  and 
the  end  so  happily  sanctifies  the  means,  shall  we  utterly 
condemn  their  mythology  ?  " 

A  portion  of  thisr  second  Vindication  of  the  Hindoos 
was  devoted  to  Mr.  Fuller's  reply,  and  that  of  his  anony- 
mous friend  whom  the  Bengal  Officer  charged  with 
aiming  to  crush  him  under  the  terrors  of  their  anathema, 
but  who  had  sapped  the  foundations  of  their  cause  by 
their  manifest  want  of  temper  and  by  a  marked  illibe- 
rality.  There  was  little,  if  any,  attempt  at  argument,  but 
the  writer  endeavoured  to  compensate  for  the  want  of  it 
by  a  constant  recurrence  to  banter.  In  the  course  of 
twenty-eight  pages  there  were  no  fewer  than  nine  scraps 
of  poetry,  English  and  French.  "  Mr.  Fuller,"  said  he, 
"  has  indeed  made  a  strange  confusion  in  my  hierarchy  ; 
jumbling  together,  most  unceremoniously,  brahmins,  de- 
mons, gods,  and  demi-gods,  and  linking  them  in  a  raas 
jatra,  or  equinoctial  dance,  he  has  sent  them  tripping  to 
the  spheres  shot  from  the  pointed  arrow  of  his  wrath." 


Digitized  by 


Google 


368  HISTORY  OF  THE  SEBAMPOEB  MISSION*      [Chjlp.  YIL 

He  said  Mr.  Fuller  "had  been  rather  severe  upon  his 
friend  Krishnu.  .  .  .  Now,  reader,  that  the  Divine  Spirit, 
assuming  invisibility,  should  manifest  itself  in  the  person 
of  Krishnu  or  in  any  other  form,  Christians,  I  presume, 
should  have  no  difficulty  in  conceiving,  while  they  believe 
the  living  Christ  to  be  God.  It  is  Narayun,  therefore,  the 
Divine  Spirit,  the  self-existent  God,  that  in  the  Geeta  is 
represented  in  the  person  of  Krishnu  conversing  with  his 
friend  Urjoon,"  and  he  then  proceeds  to  illustrate  the  as- 
sertion by  a  lengthened  quotation.  In  reference  to  the 
human  sacrifices  which  the  Hindoo  shasters  have  declared 
to  be  so  acceptable  to  the  gods  and  goddesses,  he  says, 
"  Really,  gentle  reader,  I  am  no  more  an  advocate  for 
human  sacrifices  than  this  pious  Christian.  And,  while  I 
lament  their  having  ever  occurred,  I  must  yet  do  the 
Hindoo  the  justice  to  confess  my  belief  that  such  acts 
have  always  proceeded  from  the  most  pious  motive — a 
voluntary  offering  of  his  best  gift  by  the  individual  at 
the  throne  of  grace,  as  an  atonement  for  sin,  in  the  fervent 
hope  of  that  mercy  which  justifies  the  ways  of  God  to 
man." 

One  of  the  most  important  contributions  to  the  Mis- 
sionary cause,  during  this  severe  controversy,  was  the 
pamphlet  compiled  by  Lord  Teignmouth.  It 
mouth'ipai-  was  entitled,  "  Considerations  on  the  Practica- 
bility, Policy,  and  Obligation  of  communicating 
to  the  Natives  of  India  the  Knowledge  of  Christianity, 
with  Observations  on  Major  Scott  Waring's  Pamphlet."  It 
was  distinguished  by  clear  and  irrefragable  argument,  and 
it  was  calculated  to  carry  conviction  to  the  mind,  not  only 
from  the  perfect  mastery  of  the  subject  which  thirty  years 
of  Indian  experience  had  given  the  writer,  but  also  from 
the  temperate  and  dignified  tone  in  which  it  was  written. 
The  occasion  which  called  forth  the  pamphlet  is  thus  de- 
scribed :  "  It  is  much  to  be  regretted  that  a  measure  of 
such  momentous  consideration  as  the  propagation  of  Chris- 
tianity among  the  natives   of  Hindoostan  should   have 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1808.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMFORE  MISSION.  369 

been  first  introduced  to  public  notice  by  its  avowed 
opponents  ....  It  has  been  brought  forward  in  a 
manner  which  places  the  advocates  for  it  in  the  light  of 
mad  enthusiasts,  who  think  all  political  danger  is  to  be 
disregarded,  when  it  comes  in  competition  with  their  pecu- 
liar notions  .  •  .  A  desire  to  communicate  Christianity 
to  the  native  subjects  of  our  Indian  empire,  is  represented 
as  the  suggestion  of  bigotry,  and  the  attempt  is  stigmatised 
as  a  new  mania  for  conversion  unaccountably  taken  up ; 
as  a  wild  and  impracticable  plan  impossible  by  human 
means,  and  which  must  end  in  our  destruction."  These 
expressions,  he  said,  were  quoted  from  the  Preface  to  a 
pamphlet  of  Major  Scott  Waring,  who  "  deprecates  the 
imputation  of  indifference  for  the  eternal  welfare  of  the 
people  of  India,  and  professes  a  veneration  for  the  Holy 
Scriptures,  and  a  respect  for  4  our  good  old  Church,'  and 
yet  doubts  whether  we  can  be  justified  in  attempting  to 
convert  the  people  of  India,  were  it  probable  even  that  we 
could  succeed  at  any  distant  period  of  time."  To  this 
Lord  Teignmouth  replies,  "  If  to  convert  the  Hindoos  to 
Christianity  be  indeed  impossible,  and  if  the  attempt  must 
end  in  our  extermination,  we  must,  with  whatever  reluc- 
tance, relinquish  it  ...  .  But  the  advocates  for  the  pro- 
pagation of  Christianity  in  India,  are  not  yet  reduced  to 
this  desponding  condition.  They  feel  that  much  may 
be  urged  on  their  side  of  the  question,  to  show,  that  the 
perils,  which  have  been  represented  as  so  terrific  on  the 
ground  of  late  transactions  in  India,  have  been  grossly 
misconceived  and  overrated ;  that  the  prejudices  of  the 
Hindoos,  however  great,  are  not  invincible;  that  the 
opinions  adopted  on  this  subject  are  not  the  more  solid 
because  they  are  of  ancient  birth  and  full  growth ;  that 
the  conversion  of  the  Hindoos  is  not  impracticable ;  and 
that,  in  a  political*  view  merely,  it  is  a  most  desirable 
event.  To  elucidate  and  establish  these  positions,  will  be 
the  object  of  my  endeavours  in  the  following  sheets." 
Major   Scott  Waring   had  stated  that  the  mutiny  at 

VOL.  I.  B  B 

Digitized  by  LjOOQIC 


370  HISTORY  OF  THE  SBEAMPORB   MISSION.      [Chap.  VH. 

Vellore  was  partly  imputable  to   the   great  increase  of 
missionaries,  to  their  being  Englishmen,  and  to  the  circu- 
lation of  the  Scriptures  and  religious  books  and  pamphlets. 
Lord  Teignmouth  shows  that  the  whole  number  of  mis- 
sionaries on  the  Coast  was  jive,  and  that  they  were  all 
foreigners,  and  that  their  appearance  was  not  new  to  the 
natives.     The  Major's  attack  was  directed  to  the  Seram- 
pore  missionaries,  who  were  all  in  Bengal,  and  to  the 
Scriptures  and  religious  tracts  which  they  had  printed 
and  circulated,  but,  "  not  a  line  of  the  Scriptures  in  any 
of  the  languages  current  on  the  Coast  had  then  issued 
from  the  Serampore  Press ;  and  his  object  was  to  impose 
on  the  credulity  and  ignorance  of  the  English  public,  and 
to  support  his  demand  for  the  recall  of  the  Serampore 
missionaries,  by  connecting  their  labours  with  the  Vellore 
mutiny."    The  Major  having  stated  that  alarm  and  appre- 
hension pervaded  every  quarter  of  Hindostan  from  these 
missionary  proceedings,  Lord  Teignmouth  observes,  that 
it  was  somewhat  singular  that  the  proceedings  which  were 
said  to  have  caused  so  universal  an  alarm  should  have 
attracted  little  notice  either  in  India  or  in  Europe  before 
the   occurrence  of   the  calamitous  mutiny  at    Vellore. 
"  English   missionaries  at  that   period    had   resided  in 
Bengal   above  fourteen  years  ;    they   had    enjoyed   the 
countenance  and  support  of  Marquis  Wellesley,  and  the 
translation  of  the  Scriptures  into  the  dialects  of  India  was 
begun  during  his  Lordship's  administration ;  .  .  .  .  and, 
if  such  apprehensions  had  generally  prevailed  among  the 
natives  of  Bengal,  the  Governor-General  would  not  have 
omitted  to  point  them  out,  with  their  causes,  and  to  have 
made  a  very  serious  representation  on  the  subject  to  the 
Court  of  Directors.     That  such  a  representation  has  not 
been  made,  I  am  authorised  to  affirm  by  private  assurance 
from  authentic  sources  ....  The  proceedings  of  the  mis- 
sionaries in   Bengal — that  is,  at    Serampore, — and  the 
measures  adopted  there  for  the  propagation  of  Christianity, 
have  had  no  influence  whatever  on  the  popular  feelings 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1808.]  HISTORY  OF  THE   SKRAMPORB  MISSIOH.  371 

of  the  natives  of  the  Carnatic  The  latter  know  no  more 
of  the  missionaries  in  Bengal  than  of  those  in  Africa  or 
Carass." 

Lord  Teignmouth  next  combated  and  demolished  the 
assertion  that  the  Government  of  India  had  never  inter- 
fered with  the  laws  and  usages  of  the  natives,  and  affirms 
that  while  it  had  been  the  invariable  policy  of  every 
administration  to  protect  the  natives  in  the  free  exercise 
of  their  respective  religions,  and  to  pay  due  attention  to 
their  laws  and  local  customs,  usages  originating  in  Hindoo 
superstition,  and  customs  of  immemorial  prescription  had 
been  discountenanced  and*  discontinued  by  the  British 
administration  in  Bengal.  He  showed  how  utterly  un- 
founded was  the  Major's  assertion,  that  the  collection  of 
the  revenues  and  the  administration  of  justice  had  been 
conducted  agreeably  to  the  laws  of  the  Koran  and  the 
Shaster; — the  financial  system  which  prevailed  when  the 
Company  undertook  the  Government  was  one  of  unde* 
fined  exactions  and  arbitrary  oppression,  and  the  British 
Government  was  entitled  to  the  merit  of  having  annihi- 
lated it.  #The  corah,  or  whip,  under  the  Mahomedan 
Government,  was  considered  a  necessary  appendage  of 
the  country  courts,  where  the  collections  were  made,  and 
the  application  of  it  was  incessant  and  severe ;  but  the 
adoption  of  any  such  a  practice  would  now  be  severely 
punished  by  the  administration  which  had  humanely 
abolished  it.  His  Lordship  then  adduced  various  in- 
stances to  show  that  while  the  Mahomedan  law  had  been 
retained  as  the  basis  of  our  crimininal  code,  it  had  been 
so  materially  altered  to  suit  the  claims  of  justice  and 
equity,  that  it  could  no  longer  be  considered  as  the  same 
code.  Lord  Teignmouth  then  passed  on  to  the  practica- 
bility of  converting  the  Hindoos  to  the  doctrines  of  Chris- 
tianity ;  and  he  supported  his  argument  by  a  reference  to 
the  nation  of  the  $ikhs,  who  have  broken  off  from  the 
orthodox  creed  of  Hindooism,  to  the  increase  of  Mahome- 
dans,  to  the  existence  of  the  St»Thom£  Christians,  and  the 

B  B   2 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


372  HISTORY  OF  THE   SEBAMPOBE  MISSION.       [Cm p.  VIE. 

number  of  converts  made  on  the  Coast  by  the  Protestant 
missionaries  daring  the  previous  century,  and  drew  this 
inference.  "  From  the  facts  stated,  we  are  authorised  to 
draw  the  conclusion  that  millions  of  Hindoos  have  been 
converted  to  the  Mahomedan  faith,  and  that  hundreds  of 
thousands  have  embraced  the  doctrines  of  Christianity. 
With  equal  advantages  and  exertion  on  the  side  of  Chris- 
tianity, disclaiming  all  idea  of  persecution  which  it  abhors, 
the  disproportion  might  have  been  reversed."  In  reference 
to  the  morals  of  the  natives,  he  quoted  the  opinion  of  Gil- 
christ, "  that  the  most  unerring  index  to  the  national  cha- 
racter of  any  people  was  to  Team  what  their  own  senti- 
ments were  of  each  other,  and  he  said  he  might  safely 
affirm  that  no  people  showed  more  reciprocal  distrust  than 
existed  among  the  individuals  of  every  tribe  and  family  in 
India."  He  also  referred  to  the  judgment  passed  by  Sir 
William  Jones  on  the  most  orthodox,  intelligent,  and  influ- 
ential class  among  the  Hindoos,  the  pundits,  when  he  said, 
"  I  can  no  longer  be  at  the  mercy  of  our  pundits,  who  deal 
out  the  Hindoo  law  as  they  please,  and  make  it,  at  reason- 
able  rates,  when  they  cannot  find  it  ready  made ; "  and 
added,  "  If  such  be  the  character  of  the  learned  expounders 
of  the  Hindoo  law,  men  of  the  religious  class,  we  cannot 
expect  a  higher  degree  of  moral  principle  in  the  people  at 
large."  Lord  Teignmouth  considered  it  strange  that 
"  while  every  other  religion  in  India  is  left  undisturbed, 
while  the  doctrines  of  the  Koran  are  freely  circulated,  and 
those  of  the  Vedas  and  Shasters  left  unmolested,  the 
Government  of  a  country  professing  the  Christian  religion  is 
called  upon  to  exert  its  power  for  barring  out  every  scat- 
tered  ray  of  that  religious  and  moral  light  which,  through 
the  endeavours  of  any  charitable  individuals  among  us, 
might  otherwise  shine  upon  the  inhabitants  of  that 
benighted  land ;"  and  he  closed  his  pamphlet  with  these 
remarks :  "  I  have  no  wish  to  limit  tfeat  toleration  which 
has  hitherto  been  observed  with  respect  to  their  religion, 
Jaws,  and  customs.     On  the  contrary,  I  hold  a  perseve- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1808.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPOBE  MISSION.  37$ 

ranee  in  the  system  of  toleration,  not  only  just  in  itself, 
but  as  essentially  necessary  to  facilitate  the  means  used 
for  their  conversion.  But  I  should  consider  a  prohibition 
of  the  translation  and  circulation  of  our  Holy  Scriptures, 
and  the  recall  of  the  missionaries,  most  fatal  prognostics 
with  respect  to  the  permanency  of  the  British  dominion 
in  India." 

These  publications  have  passed  into  oblivion  with  the 
discussions  which  gave  birth  to  them.  One  attack  on  the 
Serampore  Missionaries  has  alone  survived  the  excitement 
of  that  period,  and,  after  the  lapse  of  fifty  years,  still  con- 
tinues  to  attract  attention  in  the  collected  works  of  Sydney 
Smith.  His  intense  aversion  to  every  movement  and 
every  individual  connected  with  Methodism,  either  in 
England  5>r  abroad,  led  him  to  publish  an  article  in  the 
Edinburgh  Review  of  April,  1808,  characterised  more  by 
the  attribute  of  wit  and  sarcasm  than  of  equity  and  a 
sound  judgment.  The  journals  of  the  missionaries  had 
described  the  vivid  impression  made  on  their  minds  by  the 
novel  scenes  into  which  they  were  thrown.  They  were 
written  in  the  confidence  of  private  friendship,  and  were 
never  intended  for  the  public  eye.  They  ^were  injudi- 
ciously published,  without  revision  or  pruning,  in  the 
Periodical  Accounts  of  the  Society,  and  from  them  Sydney 
Smith  culled  whatever  offended  his  taste  or  savoured  of 
Evangelism,  and  endeavoured  to  turn  the  extracts  into 
ridicule  by  quaint  headings,  such  as  "Brother  Carey's  piety 
at  sea ; "  "  Mr.  Ward  admires  the  captain ; "  u  Mr.  Ward 
is  frightened  by  a  privateer ;"  "  Mr.  Ward  feels  a  regard 
for  the  sailors ; "  "  Mr.  Fountain's  gratitude  to  Hervey." 
At  the  present  day  such  a  style  of  criticism  would  be  con- 
sidered more  adapted  to  the  columns  of  Punch  than  to  the 
pages  of  a  great  Review.  Nothing  indeed  would  be  easier 
than  to  turn  even  the  inimitable  letters  of  Sydney  Smith 
himself  into  ridicule  by  the  same  malicious  process  of 
satirical  heading.  To  exhibit  the  danger  of  missionary 
exertions  in  India,  every  instance  of  opposition  the  mis- 

B  B    3 


Digitized  by 


Google 


874  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORB  MISSION.      [Chap,  VH. 

sionaries  had  encountered  from  the  natives  was  carefully 
extracted  from  their  letters  and  inserted  in  the  article 
with  the  portentous  title  of  "  Alarm  of  the  natives  at  the 
preaching  of  the  Gospel ; "  "  Hatred  of  the  natives  to  the 
Gospel;"  "Hatred  of  the  natives;"  "Hatred  to  the 
Gospel,"  These  various  extracts  closed  with  the  following 
remark :  "  It  would  perhaps  be  more  prudent  to  leave  the 
question  of  sending  missions  to  India  to  the  effect  of  these 
extracts,  which  appear  to  us  to  be  quite  decisive,  both  as 
to  the  danger  of  insurrection  from  the  prosecution  of  the 
scheme,  the  utter  unfitness  of  the  persons  employed  in  it, 
and  the  complete  hopelessness  of  the  attempt  while  pursued 
in  such  circumstances  as  now  exist."  The  article  then 
went  on  to  offer  "  some  sort  of  reply  "  to  the  arguments 
brought  by  the  "  Evangelical  party,  who  have  gpt  posses- 
sion of  our  Eastern  empire."  It  is  singular  that  such  an 
assertion  should  have  been  made  at  a  time  when  it  was  well 
known  that  the  anti-missionary  feeling  was  in  the  ascendant 
both  in  Leadenhall  Street  and  in  the  Council-chamber 
in  Calcutta,  and  the  missionaries  were  trembling  for  the 
existence  of  their  institution.  The  argument  which  he 
employed  against  the  introduction  of  Christianity  into 
India  ran  in  this  strain :  all  such  attempts  will  inevitably 
be  supposed  to  originate  with  Government,  for  "  the  om- 
nipotence of  Government  is  well  known  to  the  natives ;  " 
the  attempt  to  proselyte  will  infallibly  entail  the  loss  of 
the  empire ;  at  the  same  time,  in  consequence  of  the  in- 
stitution of  caste  and  the  tenacity  of  the  religious  feelings 
of  the  natives,  there  is  no  prospect  of  success,  and  even  if 
there  were,  the  conversion  of  the  natives  would  be  merely 
nominal.  The  article  was,  in  fact,  little  else  than  a  re- 
petition of  the  arguments  and  assertions  of  Major  Scott 
Waring,  adorned  and  invigorated  by  the  brilliancy  of 
Sydney  Smith's  genius.  If  there  be  any  strength  in  the 
facts  he  adduces  or  any  soundness  in  his  reasoning,  it  would 
unquestionably  be  the  bounden  duty  of  England  to  pro- 
scribe every  attempt  to  substitute  Christianity  for  Hin- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1808.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  375 

dooism  in  all  time  to  come,  and  to  rest  satisfied  with  the 
conclusion  that  the  Hindoos  are  destined  for  ever  to 
worship  cows  and  monkeys.  The  gauntlet  which  Sydney 
Smith  had  thrown  down  was  promptly  taken  up  by  the 
Reverend  John  Styles,  one  of  the  ablest  writers  in  the 
Congregational  denomination,  who  published  "  Strictures 
on  two  critiques  in  the  Edinburgh  Review  on  the  subject 
of  Methodism  and  Missions."  The  work  was  written  with 
such  talent  and  spirit  as  to  call  forth  a  rejoinder  from  the 
pen  of  Sydney  Smith  in  the  Review  of  April,  1809,  which 
was  marked  by  a  more  than  ordinary  infusion  of  that 
pungent  satire  of  which  he  was  so  great  a  master.  It 
opened  thus:  "In  rooting  out  a  nest  of  consecrated 
cobblers,  and  in  bringing  to  light  such  a  perilous  heap  of 
trash  as  we  were  obliged  to  worE  through,  in  our  articles 
upon  the  Methodists  and  Missionaries,  we  are  generally 
conceived  to  have  rendered  an  useful  service  to  the  cause 
of  rational  religion."  Whether  Dr.  Carey's  reputation  has 
suffered  any  permanent  injury  by  the  soubriquet  of  *  conse- 
crated cobbler '  bestowed  on  him  by  the  reverend  reviewer, 
we  leave  to  the  present  age  to  decide.  But  the  article  ex- 
hibited not  only  the  greatest  licence  of  sarcasm,  but  mis- 
representations of  facts  and  opinions,  which  were  calcu- 
lated to  inflict  serious  damage  on  the  character  of  honour- 
able men.  What,  for  instance,  could  be  more  entirely 
foreign  to  fact  than  the  assertion,  applied  to  the  Serampore 
Missionaries  that,  "  the  darling  passion  in  the  soul  of 
every  missionary  is,  not  to  teach  the  great  leading  truths 
of  the  Christian  faith,  but  to  enforce  the  little  paltry 
modification  and  distinction  which  he  first  taught  from 
his  own  tub  ?"  On  the  subject  of  tolerating  missionaries 
he  made  the  following  liberal  and  gentlemanly  remark : 
"  The  missionaries  complain  of  intolerance.  A  weasel  might 
as  well  complain  of  intolerance  when  he  is  throttled  for 
sucking  eggs.  Toleration  for  their  own  opinions —  tole- 
ration for  their  domestic  worship,  for  their  private  groans 
and  convulsions,  they  possess  in  the  fullest  extent,  but 

B  B    4 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


376  HISTORY   OF  THE   SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  TO. 

who  ever  heard  of  toleration  for  intolerance  ?  who  ever 
before  heard  men  cry  out  that  they  were  persecuted  be- 
cause they  might  not  insult  the  religion,  shock  the  feelings, 
irritate  the  passions  of  their  fellow-creatures,  and  throw  a 
whole  colony  into  bloodshed  and  confusion  ?  "  Such  were 
the  sentiments  entertained  by  Sydney  Smith,  and  the 
Whigs,  of  whom  he  was  one  of  the  ablest  champions,  on  the 
subject  of  evangelising  India.  But  the  cause  of  Missions 
has  survived  this  attack,  and  the  character  of  the  Seram- 
pore  Missionaries  has  derived  additional  brightness  from 
this  effort  to  eclipse  it.  With  the  sincerest  admiration  for 
the  splendid  powers  of  the  reviewer,  it  is  still  to  be  re- 
gretted that  they  had  not  been  applied  to  a  nobler  object 
than  that  of  impeding  the  progress  of  divine  truth  in  India. 
The  two  articles  on  Missions  were  a  mistake,  and  we  have 
it  on  the  testimony  of  one  of  his  most  intimate  friends  that 
he  lived  to  perceive  it,  and  we  believe  also  to  regret  it. 

This  missionary  controversy  terminated  with  an  article 
in  the  Quarterly  Review  of  April,  1809,  from  the  pen  of 
Southey.  It  was  intended  to  counteract  the  representations 
of  Sydney  Smith,  and  to  vindicate  the  character  of  the 
Serampore  Missionaries,  and  both  objects  were  most  effec- 
tually accomplished.  The  various  positions  of  the  first 
article  in  the  Edinburgh  Review  were  separately  assailed 
and  subverted  by  a  powerful  array  of  facts  and  arguments. 
The  writer  detailed  at  considerable  length  the  history  of 
the  Serampore  Mission  down  to  the  latest  period.  He 
demonstrated  that  the  Vellore  mutiny  was  not  to  be 
ascribed  to  the  efforts  of  the  missionaries,  and  that  it 
afforded  no  ground  to  justify  their  recall.  He  then  entered 
upon  an  examination  of  the  question  whether  the  British 
Government  in  India  was  exposed  to  any  danger  from  the 
toleration  of  missionaries,  for  "that  fierce  and  fiery 
Calvinist,  Andrew  Fuller,  most  truly  says,  that  cthe 
question  in  dispute  is  not  whether  the  natives  shall  enjoy 
toleration,  but  whether  that  toleration  shall  be  extended 
to  the  teachers  of  Christianity  ? '  "     In  the  course  of  his 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1808.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SEEAMPOBE  MISSION.  377 

argument,  he  affirmed  that  "  though  persecution  has  been 
in  many  instances  the  cause  of  rebellion,  none  of  those 
instances  are  to  be  found  in  the  history  of  Hindoostan ; " 
and  he  supported  the  assertion  by  irrefragable  testimony 
drawn  from  history.  It  had  been  boldly  maintained  that 
it  was  impossible  to  convert  the  Hindoos,  and  he  demon- 
strated the  possibility  of  conversion,  by  a  reference  to  the 
Christians  of  St.  Thom£,  originally  Hindoos;  to  the 
existence  of  ten  millions  of  Mahomedans,  few  of  whom, 
comparatively  speaking,  were  immigrants ;  to  the  secession 
of  the  whole  nation  of  the  Sikhs  from  Hindooism ;  and  to 
the  constant  rise  and  development  of  heterodox  sects  at 
the  Bengal  Presidency.  "  But  why  should  we  convert 
the  Hindoos  ?  because  our  duty  to  God  and  man  alike 
requires  the  attempt.  Why  should  we  convert  them  ? 
because  policy  requires  it,  religion  requires  it,  common 
humanity  requires  it.  Why  should  we  convert  them  ? 
because  they  who  permit  the  evil  which  they  can  prevent, 
are  guilty  of  that  evil,  and  to  them  shall  it  be  imputed ." 
After  having  disposed  of  these  general  questions,  Southey 
entered  upon  the  last  objection,  *#the  utter  unfitness  of  the 
missionaries  for  their  work.'  "  They  have  been  treated," 
he  remarked,  "  with  the  peculiar  insolence,  injustice,  and 
want  of  all  good  feeling,  which  mark  the  criticism  of  the 
present  time.  Such  qualities  as  these  are  seldom  far 
removed  from  ignorance ;  accordingly,  the  missionaries 
have  by  a  wretched  vulgarity  been  called  Anabaptists :  — 
a  name  which,  like  that  of  Manichean  in  former  times,  has 
served  the  same  purpose  in  ecclesiastical,  that  the  watch- 
word of  the  day  has  in  political  controversy.  The  ob- 
jection has  been  repeated  from  the  pulpit,  and  Dr.  Bar- 
row recommends  that  no  missionaries  may  be  suffered  to 
appear  in  India  but  those  of  the  Established  Church. 
Lastly,  they  are  called  fools,  madmen,  tinkers,  &c. 
Claudius  Buchanan  recommends  a  Church  establishment 
for  India.  It  is  highly  desirable  that  there  should  be  one, 
not  for  the  honour  only  of  the  British  people,  —  who, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


378  HISTORY   OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  VIL 

God  be  praised,  are,  and  ever  will  be,  a  religious  people  — 

but  even  for  the  sake  of  public  decency There 

would  be  no  difficulty  in  filling  up  the  establishment,  how- 
ever ample ;  but  would  the  archbishop,  bishops,  deans  and 
chapters  of  Mr.  Buchanan's  plan  do  the  work  of  mission- 
aries? where  are  they  to  be  found  among  them?  In  what 
school  for  the  promulgation  of  sound  and  orthodox 
learning  are  they  trained  up  ?  There  is  ability  and  there 
is  learning  in  the  Church  of  England,  but  its  age  of  fer- 
mentation has  long  been  over ;  and  that  zeal  which,  for 
this  work  is  the  most  needful,  is,  we  fear,  possessed  only 
by  the  Methodists."  He  then  endeavoured  to  extenuate 
the  strange  appropriations  of  Scriptural  phraseology  by  the 
missionaries,  by  a  reference  to  their  labours :  "  When  Carey 
mourns  over  the  leanness  of  his  own  soul,  and  has  much 
sweetness  in  a  sermon  —  and  when  Fountain  remembers 
to  have  had  pretty  strong  convictions  of  sin,  and  remorse 
of  conscience  at  eight  or  nine  years  old,  it  is  pitiable  to 
find  such  men  expressing  themselves  in  such  a  fashion, 
but  it  were  more  pitiable  if  we  despised  them  because  their 
fashion  is  not  as  ours  ;  i£  we  did  not  pass  lightly  over  the 
weakness  of  men,  who  have  the  zeal  and  the  sincerity,  the 
self-denial  and  the  self-devotement  of  apostles."  The 
article  was  wound  up  with  a  high  eulogium  on  the  cha- 
racter and  the  conduct  of  the  Serampore  Missionaries :  — 
"  We  who  have  thus  vindicated  them,  are  neither  blind  to 
what  is  erroneous  in  their  doctrine,  nor  ludicrous  in  their 
phraseology :  but  the  anti-missionaries  cull  out  from  their 
journals  and  letters  all  that  is  ridiculous,  sectarian  and 
trifling  ;  call  them  fools,  madmen,  tinkers,  Calvinists  and 
schismatics :  and  keep  out  of  sight  their  love  of  man,  and 
their  zeal  for  God,  and  their  self-devotement,  their  indefa- 
tigable industry,  their  unequalled  learning.  These  low- 
born and  low-bred  mechanics  have  translated  the  whole 
Bible  into  Bengalee,  and  have  by  this  time  printed  it. 
They  are  printing  the  New  Testament  in  the  Sanscrit,  the 
Orissa,  the  Mahratta,  the  Hindoostanee,  and  the  Guzerattee, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1806.]  HISTORY  OF  THB  SEBAMPOBE  MISSION.  379 

and  translating  it  into  Persic,  Telinga,  Carnata,  Chinese, 
the  language  of  the  Sikhs,  and  of  the  Burmans,  and  in 
four  of  these  languages  they  are  going  on  with  the  Bible. 
Extraordinary  as  this  is,  it  will  appear  more  so,  when  it  is 
remembered  that  of  these  men,  one  was  originally  a 
shoemaker,  another  a  printer  at  Hull,  and  a  third  a 
master  of  a  charity  school  at  Bristol.  Only  fourteen 
years  have  elapsed  since  Thomas  and  Carey  set  foot  in 
India,  and  in  that  time  these  missionaries  have  acquired  this 
gift  of  tongues.  In  fourteen  years  these  low-born,  low- 
bred mechanics  have  done  more  towards  spreading  the 
knowledge  of  the  Scriptures  among  the  heathen,  than  has 
been  accomplished,  or  even  attempted,  by  all  the  world 
besides/' 

This  review  of  the  Missionary  controversy  of  1808,  may 
t>e  very  appropriately  closed  by  an  extract  from  a  letter 
of  Sir  James  Mackintosh,  at  Bombay,  to  Mr.  Charles 
Grant: — "Mr.  Twining's  pamphlet  is  the  most  singular 
publication  I  have  seen.  He  seems  to  think  that  the 
preaching  of  Christianity  is  generally  acknowledged  to  be 
a  crime  so  atrocious,  *  as  to  be  hated  needs  but  to  be 
seen/  He  publishes  extracts  of  the  proceedings  of  a 
society  which  proposes  to  circulate  the  Bible  in  India,  as 
he  would  private  papers,  proving  a  conspiracy  to  commit 
treason,  which  require  no  comment,  and  must  of  themselves 
excite  general  indignation.  The  only  measure  which  he 
could  consistently  propose  would  be  the  infliction  of  capital 
punishment  on  the  crime  of  preaching,  or  embracing 
Christianity  in  India,  for  almost  every  inferior  degree  of 
persecution  is  already  practised  by  European  or  native 
Anti-Christians." 


VOL.  L  *  B  B  6 

Digitized  by  LjOOQIC 


380  HISTORY  OF  THE  SRBAMl'ORE   MISSION.      [Chaf.  VHI. 


CHAP.  VIII. 

Wb  now  turn  to  the  progress  of  events  at  Serampore. 

The  hostility  manifested  towards  all  missionary  efforts  by 

the  government  of  Lord  Minto,   at  the  com- 

Potklonofthe  x        1?    !•  J       •     •    x       x#  1  J      xl_ 

MiMionatthebe-  mencement  ot  his  administration,  placed   the 

gmulngoflMS.  ....  ,       ,.~         *\         '     .    - 

missionaries  in  a  new  and  difficult  position. 
It  did  not,  however,  produce  any  relaxation  of  their 
efforts;  on  the  contrary,  every  additional  pressure  ap- 
peared to  give  fresh  elasticity  to  their  minds.  Writing  to 
Mr.  Fuller,  at  the  beginning  of  1808,  Dr.  Carey  said :  "  Our 
deliverance  has  been  great,  and  it  may,  indeed,  be  said 
that  God  has  stretched  forth  his  hand  against  the  wrath  of 
his  enemies,  and  that  his  right  hand  has  saved  us.  I 
believe  that  Government  has  no  hostile  feeling  against  us 
now,  though  there  are  individuals  who  wish  to  crush  the 
gospel."  But  the  unfounded  alarm  which  had  led  Govern- 
ment to  interfere  with  the  labours  of  the  missionaries, 
though  in  some  measure  allayed,  was  by  no  means 
extinct.  A  morbid  dread  of  danger  from  missionary 
exertions  of  any  description  still  haunted  the  Council- 
chamber.  The  Armenian  and  Portuguese  attendants  at 
the  little  chapel  in  the  Chitpore  road,  which  had  been 
closed  on  receiving  the  deposition  of  the  magistrate's  spy, 
petitioned  Government  to  grant  the  Serampore  Missiona- 
ries liberty  to  preach  to  them  in  the  Bengalee  language, 
in  which  alone  they  were  able  to  receive  instruction. 
But  the  request,  however  reasonable  and  innocuous,  was 
refused.  The  missionaries  were  thus  excluded  from  all 
preaching  in  the  vernacular  tongue  in  the  metropolis, 
except  at  their  own  house.  Under  the  general  regulations 
of  Government  they  could  not  send  missionaries  into  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1808.]  HISTORY   OF  THE   SERA11PORE   MISSION.  381 

interior  of  the  country  without  permission,  and  this 
permission  had  been  denied  them.  "  But  this  difficulty/9 
writes  Dr.  Carey,  "  we  shall  endeavour  to  evade,  that  is, 
we  shall  run  the  risk  of  the  missionaries  being  sent  back 
to  Serampore  by  the  magistrate.  On  this  principle  we 
are  hoping  to  send  my  son  William  to  Chittagong  and 
brother  Robinson  to  Orissa."  They  hoped  by  patient  and 
quiet  perseverance  gradually  t6  wear  out  the  opposition 
of  Government.  It  was  in  reference  to  the  issue  of  reli- 
gious tracts  and  treatises  that  the  restrictions  imposed 
on  them  were  at  first  most  keenly  felt.  They  were 
required  to  submit  the  manuscript  of  every  publication 
to  the  inspection  of  the  Secretary,  and  could  not  print  a 
single  page  without  his  imprimatur.  Unfortunately,  Go- 
vernment had  affirmed  that  it  was  pledged  to  protect  the 
natives  from  molestation  in  the  exercise  of  their  religion ; 
and  any  animadversion  on  their  creed  or  practice  was  con- 
sidered an  act  of  molestation,  within  the  scope  of  the 
pledge.  The  governor  of  Serampore  had,  however,  en- 
quired whether  the  Bible  in  the  native  language  was 
included  in  the  prohibition,  and  had  been  informed  that 
|C  the  British  Government  was  not  aware  of  any  objection 
to  the  circulation  of  the  Holy  Scriptures  in  the  vernacular 
tongues,  if  unaccompanied  by  any  comments  on  the  reli- 
gions of  the  country."  The  missionaries  were  thus  at  li- 
berty to  print  and  circulate  the  Scriptures  in  the  language 
of  inspiration,  and  they  freely  availed  themselves  of  the 
privilege. 

The  rupture  between  the  courts  of  England  and  Den- 
mark in  September,  1807,  was  followed  up  by  the  occupa- 
tion of  Serampore.     On  the  morning  of  the 
28th  of  January,    1808,   three   companies  of  $*™jffi 
Sepoys  crossed  the  river  from  the  cantonment  of 
Barrackpore,  and  the  commander  demanded  the  surrender 
of  the  town  and  factory.   The  request  was  complied  with, 
as  a  matter  of  course.     With  a  small  garrison  of  forty 
native  soldiers,  and  the  few  honeycombed  guns  which  had 


Digitized  by 


Google 


382  HISTOBY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION*      [Ch4f.  VHI. 

been  used  as  a  saluting  battery  for  half  a  century,  it  would 
have  been  an  act  of  folly  to  offer  the  least  resistance  to 
the  British  power.  All  the  Danish  vessels  lying  off  the 
town  or  in  the  river,  twelve  in  number,  and  of  4600  tons 
burden,  together  with  the  valuable  merchandise  collected 
in  the  warehouses  at  Serampore,  served  to  enrich  the 
captors.  Thus  fell  the  prosperity  of  Serampore,  fifty- 
three  years  after  the  Danish  colours  had  been  first  hoisted 
in  the  town.  It  was  subsequently  restored  to  Denmark 
after  the  termination  of  the  war,  in  1815,  but  the  Danish 
East  India  Company  never  recovered  the  blow  inflicted  by 
the  confiscation  of  its  property  and  the  extinction  of  its 
capital  in  1808.  During  the  intermediate  period,  trade 
had  been  working  itself  into  new  channels.  The  exports 
from  Serampore  had  consisted  chiefly  of  the  piece  goods  of 
India,  but  the  manufactures  of  England  had  already 
begun  to  encroach  upon  that  traffic,  and  they  soon  after 
entirely  superseded  the  textile  fabrics  of  the  East,  which 
had  enjoyed  a  high  reputation  in  Europe  for  eighteen 
centuries.  After  Serampore  had  been  thus  restored  to  the 
crown  of  Denmark,  it  was  visited  by  one  solitary 
merchantman,  which  returned  to  Copenhagen  without  re- 
muneration, and  the  foreign  trade  of  the  town  ceased, 
never  to  revive.  The  capture  of  the  town  by  the  British 
authorities  was  naturally  calculated  to  create  apprehension 
in  the  minds  of  the  missionaries.  The  friendly  Govern- 
ment of  Denmark  had  now  lost  the  power  of  affording 
them  protection,  and  they  were  at  the  mercy  of  those 
who,  not  six  months  before,  had  determined  to  break 
up  their  press  and  establishment.  Happily,  Lord  Minto 
had  recovered  from  the  panic  of  the  Vellore  mutiny ;  he 
had,  moreover,  become  personally  acquainted  with  the 
character  and  views  of  the  missionaries,  and  the  disposi- 
tion to  interfere  with  their  labours  had  subsided.  On  the 
establishment  of  the  British  authority  in  the  town,  they 
were,  therefore,  allowed  to  pursue  their  avocations 
without  hindrance.     If  the  town  had  been  occupied  by 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1808.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  383 

the  British  during  the  alarm  of  the  previous  year,  their 
plans  of  usefulness  might  have  been  seriously  affected. 
Happily  it  continued  in  the  hands  of  the  Danish  Govern- 
ment just  long  enough  to  afford  the  necessary  protection 
to  the  missionaries,  and  to  enable  them  to  tide  over  an 
important  and  difficult  crisis.  By  the  time  of  its  capture, 
the  storm  had  blown  over. 

The  friendly  disposition  of  Lord  Minto  towards  the 
missionaries  was  still  further  manifested  in  the  succeeding 
month  of  February.     Mr.  Harington,  one  of  the 
judges  of  the   Sudder  court  in  Calcutta,  had  tronag*  SEtf* 

Jo  *  a  Chinas*  class. 

presided  at  an  examination  of  the  Chinese 
class  at  Serampore,  and  mentioned  the  progress  which 
had  been  made  in  the  cultivation  of  that  language  to 
Lord  Minto.  The  fact,  which  was  at  first  received  with 
some  incredulity,  was  subsequently  corroborated  by  Dr. 
Ley  den  and  Mr.  Brown,  who  had  been  present  on  the  oc- 
casion, and  Lord  Minto  introduced  a  very  complimentary 
notice  of  these  literary  exertions  into  his  address  at  the  next 
anniversary  of  the  College  of  Fort  William.     He  said :  — 

"  I  am,  in  truth,  strongly  inclined,  whether  regularly  or  not,  to 
deal  one  encouraging  word  to  the  meritorious,  and,  I  hope,  not 
unsuccessful  effort,  making,  I  may  say,  at  the  door  of  our  College, 
though  not  admitted  to  its  portico,  to  foroe  that  hitherto  impregnable 
fortress,  the  Chinese  language.  The  means,  we  all  know,  that,  in 
the  present  circumstances,  can  be  employed  in  that  difficult  under- 
taking, are  very  inconsiderable.  The  honour  is  so  much  the  greater 
to  those,  whose  enterprise  seems  already  to  have  opened  at  least  a 
prospect  of  success.  Three  young  men,  I  ought,  indeed,  to  say, 
boys,  have  not  only  acquired  a  ready  use  of  the  Chinese  language  for 
the  purpose  of  oral  communications,  which  I  understand  is  neither 
difficult  nor  rare  amongst  Europeans  connected  with  China ;  but 
they  have  achieved,  in  a  degree  worthy  of  admiration,  that  which 
has  been  deemed  scarcely  within  the  reach  of  European  faculties 
or  industry ;  I  mean,  a  very  extensive  and  correct  acquaintance 
with  the  written  language  of  China.  I  will  not  detail  the  parti- 
culars of  the  examinations  which  took  place  on  the  10th  of  this 
month  at  Serampore,  in  the  Chinese  language,  the  report  of  which, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


384  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  VIII. 

however,  I  have  read  with  great  interest,  and  recommend  to  the 
liberal  notice  of  those  whom  I  have  the  honour  to  address.  It  is 
enough  for  my  present  purpose  to  say,  that  these  young  pupils 
read  Chineee  bookstand  translate  them  ;  and  they  write  composi- 
tions of  their  own  in  the  Chinese  language  and  character.  A  Chinese 
press  too  is  established  and  in  actual-use.  In  a  word,  if  the  founders 
and  supporters  of  this  little  College  have  not  yet  dispelled,  they 
have  at  least  rent  and  admitted  a  dawn  of  day  through  that  thick 
impenetrable  cloud :  they  have  passed  that  oceanum  dis&ociabilem, 
which  for  so  many  ages  has  insulated  that  vast  empire  from  the  rest 
of  mankind.  Let  us  entertain  at  least  the  hope,  that  a  persever- 
ance in  this  or  similar  attempts,  may  let  in  at  length  upon  those 
multitudes  the  contraband  and  long-forbidden  blessing  of  human 
intercourse  and  social  improvement.  I  must  not  omit  to  recommend 
the  zealous  and  persevering  labours  of  Mr.  Lassar,  and  those  learned 
and  pious  persons  associated  with  him,  who  have  accomplished,  for 
the  future  benefit,  we  may  hope,  of  that  immense  and  populous 
region,  Chinese  versions  in  the  Chinese  character,  of  the  Gospels  of 
Matthew,  Mark,  and  Luke,  throwing  open  that  precious  mine, 
with  all  its  religious  and  moral  treasures,  to  the  largest  associated 
population  in  the  world." 

The  Serampore  Missionaries  had  contemplated  a  mission 
to  Chittagong,  and  another  to  Orissa,  but  knowing  the 
cont«i»put«i  alarm  still  entertained  by  Government  regarding 
2J?ngnal»dC,lit"  their  movements,  Dr.  Carey  thought  it  prudent 
Fo®rtt#.  ^  ascertain,  if  possible,  the  sentiments  of  some 

of  its  leading  members  on  the  subject.  He  wrote  to  Mr. 
Colebrooke,  his  personal  and  literary  friend,  who  had 
recently  been  elevated  to  the  Council  Board,  to  enquire 
whether  it  was  likely  that  permission  would  be  granted  to 
his  son  William  to  occupy  land  at  Chittagong,  and  com- 
mence a  coffee  and  tea  plantation.  Mr.  Colebrooke  replied 
that  there  could  be  no  objection  to  his  son's  residing  in 
the  district,  any  more  than  to  any  other  person's  doing  so, 
provided  he  had  no  view  to  the  making  of  proselytes. 
It  was  evident,  therefore,  that  although  a  trader  or  a 
planter  might  settle  in  the  interior  without  any  difficulty, 
a  missionary  would  not  be  tolerated ;  the  intended  mission 
was  therefore  relinquished.     It  appeared,  moreover,  still 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1808.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPOEE  MISSIOK.  385 

less  probable  that  Government  would  consent  to  the  re- 
sidence of  a  missionary  in  the  poXmya-bkumee,  the  "  sacred 
land  of  Juggernath,"  as  the  province  of  Orissa  is  designated 
by  the  natives.  That  idolatrous  shrine  had  now  been 
adopted  as  one  of  the  institutions  of  the  British  Govern- 
ment, and  its  prosperity  was  identified  with  the  interests 
of  the  state.  There  was,  therefore,  no  hope  that  any  mis- 
sionary would  be  allowed  to  engage  in  "  public  preachings 
at  Juggernath  offensive  to  the  religious  persuasion  of  the 
people,"  or  to  circulate  tracts  which  might  give  any 
"  molestation  "  to  the  hierarchy  at  Pooree.  Mr.  Robinson 
was,  therefore,  informed  by  his  Serampore  brethren  that 
they  considered  the  way  for  the  introduction  of  the  Gospel 
into  Orissa  blocked  up,  and  could  perceive  no  prospect  of 
obtaining  a  settlement  for  him  within  the  British  domi- 
nions. They  offered  him  the  choice  of  Bootan,  Miwion  to 
Assam,  or  Aracan.  He  selected  Bootan,  and  Booun' 
Dr.  Carey's  second  son,  Mr.  William  Carey,  determined  to 
accompany  him.  In  the  course  of  the  year  they  proceeded 
towards  their  destination  with  a  judicious  letter  of  in- 
structions from  Serampore,  in  which  they  were  particularly 
cautioned  to  avoid  the  civil  or  military  stations  of  the 
British  Government  on  the  frontier.  But  on  entering  the 
Bootan  territory,  they  found  the  country  distracted  by 
factions  and  intestine  war,  and  they  concluded  that  there 
was  little  hope  of  being  able,  under  such  circumstances, 
to  prosecute  their  peaceful  mission  with  success ;  they  re- 
turned, therefore,  to  Serampore  to  look  out  for  some  more 
promising  sphere  of  labour.  It  is  not  without  interest  to 
notice  that  both  these  young  missionaries  who  entered 
Bootan  in  company,  survived  all  their  contemporaries, 
and,  having  laboured  with  zeal  and  fidelity  in  the  field  of 
missions  for  a  period  of  forty-five  years,  died  within  a  few 
months  of  each  other  in  the  year  1853. 

In  the  month  of  March  of  the  present  year,  Dr.  Carey 
and  his  colleagues  were  unhappily  brought  a  second  time 
into  collision  with  their  friend,  Mr.  Brown,  owing  to 

vol..  i.  c  c 


Digitized  by 


Google 


286  HISTORY  OF  THE   SBRAMPORE   MISSION.      [Chap.  VHI. 

the  very  questionable  measures  pursued  by  Mr.  Buchanan 
in  reference  to  the  translations.  The  Translation  Fund 
Difference,  with  consisted  primarily  of  subscriptions  to  "  Pro- 
tiTetortheTr^".  posals,"  which  bore  no  signature  but  that  of  the 

Ution  Fund.  £,  .....      .  .  i  /♦  t  i        ^ 

Se ram  pore  Missionaries,  and  referred  only  to 
labours  in  which  they  were  engaged.  They  considered 
themselves,  therefore,  as  possessing  a  paramount  right  to 
the  fund,  and  as  standing  responsible  to  the  public  for  the 
application  of  it.  The  legacy  which  Mr.  Grant,  of  Malda, 
had  bequeathed  in  aid  of  the  translations,  was,  in  their 
opinion,  intended  to  strengthen  this  fund,  though  there 
was  some  ambiguity  in  the  wording  of  the  will.  On 
leaving  Calcutta  to  embark  for  England,  in  November, 
1807,  Mr.  Buchanan  directed  the  treasurers  of  the  fund 
not  to  pay  away  a  single  rupee  of  these  subscriptions, 
except  to  the  joint  order  of  Mr.  Brown  and  Mr.  Udny.  It 
was  not  till  five  months  after  his  departure,  that  Dr.  Carey 
and  his  colleagues  became  aware,  and  only  accidentally, 
of  this  proceeding,  and  they  parted  with  him,  therefore, 
in  a  spirit  of  friendliness  with  which  they  were  subse- 
quently taunted,  when  a  real  knowledge  of  the  circumstance 
led  them  to  modify  their  opinion  of  him.  They  felt  that  a 
measure  so  deeply  involving  their  interests,  should  have 
been  directly  communicated  to  them.  They  likewise  dis- 
covered that,  in  an  official  letter  transmitted  to  the 
Governor-General  in  Council,  upbraiding  him  with  having 
discouraged  missions,  Mr.  Buchanan  had  distinctly 
avowed  that  his  chief  reason  for  endeavouring  to  asso- 
ciate the  translations  with  the  College  of  Fort  William, 
was  to  prevent  their  falling  into  the  hands  of  Dissenters, 
as  they  had  since  done.  After  this  disclosure  of  Mr. 
Buchanan's  disingenuousness,  at  a  time  when  he  was  pro- 
fessing great  cordiality  towards  them,  Dr.  Carey  and  his 
colleagues  felt  it  impossible  to  regard  any  of  his  move- 
ments without  mistrust.  On  the  other  hand,  Mr.  Brown 
reposed  the  most  implicit  confidence  in  his  friend,  and  re- 
garded him  with  feelings  of  the  deepest  homage.    A  cor- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1808.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SEBAMPOHE   MISSION.  387 

respondence  ensued,  which  increased  in  acerbity  as  it 
proceeded ;  but  it  is  not  necessary  to  withdraw  the  veil 
which  time  has  drawn  over  this  unhappy  disagreement. 
Suffice  it,  therefore,  to  say  that  Mr.  Brown,  on  finding 
that  he  had  been  invested  with  the  control  of   these 
translation  funds,  u^nown  to  himself,  offered  to  resign 
it  to  the  missionaries,  but  Mr.  Marshman  declined  it  on 
the  part  of  his  colleagues,  and  stated  that  it  appeared  to 
them  more  advisable  to  communicate  direct  with  the 
Christian  public  in  India,  and  with  the  Bible  Society  in 
England,  through  the  medium  of  their  own  Society  and 
its  secretary.     The  missionaries  had  also  declined  to  act 
on  the  Corresponding  Committee  of  the  Bible  Society,  after 
the  treatment  they  had  experienced,  and  Mr.  Brown  added 
the  names  of  four  chaplains  to  it,  all  members  of  the 
Church  of  England.     On  the  8th  of  April,  this  remodelled 
committee  came  to  the  resolution  of  printing  the  Chinese 
Scriptures,     Mr.    Martyn's    Hindoostanee    and    Sabat's 
Persian  version,  and  they  offered  the  Serampore  mission- 
aries assistance  for  the  publication  of   three  of   their 
versions.     The  fund  from  which  these  disbursements  were 
to  be  made,  consisted  of  8753rs.,  which  was  all  that  re- 
mained of  the  translation  subscriptions,  and  Mr.  Grant's 
legacy,  and  the  2000?.  which  had  been  voted  by  the  Bible 
Society  in  London.     Mr.  Brown,  in  announcing  the  re- 
construction of  the  committee  to  his  friends  at  Serampore, 
stated  that  the  new  committee  would  treat  any  proposals 
which  might  be  made  to  them  with  impartiality.     They 
took  this  letter  to  signify  that  they  were  to  obtain  no 
assistance  from  funds  raised  in  India  on  the  strength  of 
their  names,  or  voted  in  London  on  the  report  of  their 
labours,  except  as  it  might  be  sanctioned  by  Mr.  Brown 
and  Mr.  Udny  and  their  new  associates.     They  declined 
the  aid  thus  offered  them,  and  refused  to  compromise  their 
liberty  of  action  by  subordination  to  a  committee  chosen 
under  such  circumstances,  and  after  referring  the  matter 

c  c  s 


Digitized  by 


Google 


388  HISTORY   OF   THE   SERAMPORB   MISSION.      [Chap.  VJH. 

to  Mr.  Fuller,  prepared  to  encounter  the  pecuniary  diffi- 
culties to  which  they  might  be  subjected. 

To  relieve  their  immediate  necessities,  Mr.  Marshman 
determined  to  make  a  vigorous  effort  to  raise  funds  for 
Mr.Marthman's  the  translation s  in  Calcutta.  Though  eight 
5SHj?in  mont^s  had  scarcely  elapgd  since  the  hostility 
cicutta.  0f  Government  to  their  mission  had  been  une- 

quivocally manifested,  he  determined  to  begin  with  the 
Governor-General,  and  solicit  his  patronage  for  the 
publication  of  the  Scriptures  in  the  Eastern  languages. 
The  lively  interest  Lord  Minto  had  taken  in  the  Chinese 
studies  prosecuted  at  Serampore  rendered  it  advisable  to 
bring  the  Chinese  version  more  prominently  into  view  on 
this  occasion.  The  translation  of  the  New  Testament  into 
that  language,  the  joint  production  of  Mr.  Marshman  and 
his  tutor,  Mr.  Lassar,  was  now  ready  for  the  press.  But 
Mr.  Marshman  was  met  at  the  threshold  of  his  work  by 
the  difficulty  arising  out  of  the  peculiar  nature  of  Chinese 
printing.  It  is  scarcely  necessary  to  remark  that  all 
Chinese  books  have  been  printed,  from  time  immemorial, 
not  with  moveable  metallic  types,  as  in  Europe,  but  from 
blocks  of  wood,  on  which  each  character  is  separately  en- 
graved by  the  burin.  No  artists  versed  in  this  mode 
of  typographical  engraving  were  to  be  obtained  in  Cal- 
cutta, where  the  Chinese  immigrants  consisted  almost  ex- 
clusively of  shoemakers  and  carpenters.  About  twenty 
years  before  this  period,  a  European  had  established  a 
factory  for  printing  calicoes  about  two  miles  from  Seram- 
pore, and  instructed  several  natives  in  the  art  of  engraving 
his  patterns  upon  blocks  of  tamarind  wood.  It  occurred 
to  Mr.  Marshman  that  the  men  who  carved  these  delicate 
designs  on  wood,  could  also  engrave  Chinese  characters. 
Two  of  the  most  expert  of  their  number  were,  therefore,  en- 
gaged for  the  experiment,  and  a  square  block  of  tamarind 
wood  was  prepared,  equal  in  thickness  to  the  usual  height 
of  the  type.  Two  pages  of  the  Gospel  of  St.  Matthew, 
written  with  great  care  on  a  sheet  of  thin  paper,  were  then 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1808.]  HISTORY   OF   THE   SBRAMPORB  MISSION.  389 

pasted  reversely  on  the  wood  and  given  to  them.  After 
repeated  failures,  they  succeeded  in  producing  a  specimen 
of  Chinese  printing,  not  equal  to  the  productions  of  the 
Imperial  press  at  Pekin,  but  still  sufficiently  distinct  to  be 
legible,  and  affording  every  prospect  of  improvement  by 
habit  and  experience*  With  these  interesting  specimens 
of  the  first  rude  attempt  at  Chinese  typography  in  India 
Mr.  Marshman  went  to  Calcutta,  to  consult  his  friend,  Dr. 
Leyden,  on  the  question  of  soliciting  subscriptions  for  the 
publication  of  the  translations.  In  his  letter  to  Mr. 
Fuller  on  the  subject,  he  remarks: — "Leyden  has  little 
religion,  but  he  is  a  bold,  honest  fellow,  greatly  in  request 
with  Lord  Minto,  who  has  recently  appointed  him  judge 
and  magistrate  in  the  district  around  Calcutta.  He  is 
fond  of  me.  1  do  not  clash  with  his  hobby,  that  of  being 
a  universal  linguist.  I  care  not  for  this  bubble,  and  there- 
fore assist  him  in  the  Chinese.  He  approved  my  state- 
ment, and  encouraged  the  idea  of  having  an  audience  with 
Lord  Minto,  and  urged  me  to  bring  forward  the  Chinese 
specimen  without  delay." 

In  pursuance  of  this  advice,  Dr.  Carey  and  Mr.  Marsh- 
man  waited  on  Lord  Minto,  and  presented  him  with  the 
specimen  of  Chinese  printing,  and  likewise  ,ntervlew  of  Dr# 
with  sheets  of  all  the  other  versions  in  the  press.  SS2t£Sl  wVth 
They  mentioned  the  embarrassment  occasioned  LordMlnto- 
by  the  exhaustion  of  their  funds,  and  asked  him  to 
countenance  a  subscription  for  the  translations.  Lord 
Minto  expressed  his  surprise  at  the  extent  and  success 
of  their  labours,  but  was  more  particularly  gratified 
with  the  first  sheet  of  the  Chinese  New  Testament. 
China  was  at  that  time  so  entirely  a  terra  incognita  to 
Europeans,  that  everything  connected  with  it  was  invested 
with  a  romantic  interest,  and  this  specimen  of  the  Gospel 
of  St.  Matthew  translated  into  that  unknown  and  hitherto 
inaccessible  language,  by  one  who  had  never  been  in 
China,  and  engraved  by  natives  of  India,  appeared  to  him 
a  singular  instance  of  public  spirit  and  perseverance.   But 

c  c   3 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


390  HISTORY  OF  THE   SEBAMPORE   MISSION.      [Chap.  VUL 

when  they  pressed  him  regarding  the  subscription,  he 
desired  a  few  days  to  consider  it.  At  the  next  interview, 
a  week  after,  he  said,  in  the  most  friendly  spirit,  that  if 
he  could  possibly  step  out  of  himself,  and  separate  his 
public  from  his  private  character,  he  would  at  once  head 
the  list,  but  he  had  consulted  his  colleagues,  and  they 
considered  it  unadvisable  for  the  head  of  the  Government 
to  appear  in  an  undertaking  which  might  not  meet  with 
the  approval  of  the  Court  of  Directors.  Mr.  Marshman 
spent  the  evening  in  discussing  the  question  with  Dr. 
Leyden,  who  told  him  that  the  functionaries  of  Govern- 
ment would  probably  be  deterred  likewise  by  political 
reasons  from  supporting  the  translations,  but  if  a  proposal 
for  publishing  a  translation  of  Confucius  into  English  was 
submitted  to  them,  the  most  liberal  encouragement  might 
be  expected,  and  he  and  his  colleagues  would  thus  be  fur- 
nished with  an  early  supply  of  funds.  On  leaving  Dr. 
Leyden  at  midnight,  Mr.  Marshman  drew  up  the  pro- 
spectus regarding  Confucius,  and  returning  to  Serampore 
the  next  morning,  put  it  to  press.  The  following  day  he 
went  down  to  Calcutta,  and  waited  on  the  Judges  of  the 
Supreme  Court,  and  solicited  their  patronage  of  Confucius, 
or  of  the  translations,  or  of  both  ;  but  he  found  that  little 
progress  could  be  expected  without  the  name  of  the  Gover- 
nor-General. He  therefore  transmitted  the  paper  to  Lord 
Minto,  who  immediately  signified  his  approval  of  the  un- 
dertaking, and  encouraged  it  by  a  subscription  of  ten 
copies,  in  a  very  complimentary  letter,  which  served  to 
stimulate  the  liberality  of  the  community.  The  prospectus 
stated  that  a  translation  of  Confucius  into  English,  and 
of  the  Sacred  Scriptures  into  Chinese  was  in  the  press  at 
Serampore,  and  that  the  profits  derived  from  the  sale  of 
Confucius  would  be  applied  to  tbe  publication  of  the 
Scriptures.  Fortified  by  the  Governor-General's  letter, 
Mr.  Marshman  waited  personally  on  every  gentleman  of 
eminence,  in  and  out  of  the  service,  in  Calcutta.  In  every 
instance  he  experienced  the  kindest  reception,  but  more 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1*080  HISTORY  OF  THE  SEBAMPORE  MISSION.  391 

particularly  from  Mr.  Edmonstone,  the  Secretary  to  Go*, 
vernment,  who  appeared  anxious  to  efface  the  remembrance 
of  his  recent  hostility  to  their  missionary  undertaking,  and 
not  only  encouraged  the  publication  of  the  Chinese  classic, 
but  put  his  name  down  for  a  donation  of  30Z.  to  the  trans- 
lations. The  subscription  list  of  Confucius  contained  the 
name  of  every  gentleman  of  influence  in  Calcutta.  In  a 
few  days  Mr.  Marshmati  obtained  subscriptions  of  the 
value  of  2000/.,  which  were  destined  collaterally  to  aid  tha 
publication  of  the  translations,  for  which  he  also  obtained 
direct  contributions  to  the  extent  of  300/.  Having  com- 
pleted the  canvass  of  Calcutta,  he  determined  to  visit 
Madras  with  the  same  object,  and  as  the  south-west  mon- 
soon had  set  in,  he  proposed  to  proceed  by  land,  and  pro- 
cured the  usual  passport,  but  was  happily  induced  to 
forego  a  journey  which,  at  that  seaton,  the  most  oppressive 
of  the  year,  might  have  proved  fataL 

The  report  of  the  violent  proceedings  of  the  Govern- 
ment in  Calcutta  in  the  months  of  August  and  Septem- 
ber, 1807,  reached  England  just  as  the  stonfc  Reittltlnttn 
raised  by  the  pamphlets  of  Mr.  Twining,  Major  *£$£$]££* 
Scott  Waring,  and  Colonel  Stewart  had  begun 
to  subside.  The  minds  of  Mr.  Fuller  and  of  the  friends 
of  the  mission  were  filled  with  the  most  gloomy  forebod- 
ings. Mr.  Charles  Grant  requested  Mr.  Fuller  to  come 
up  to  London,  as  he  found  the  Mission  was  "  crippled,  if 
not  crushed/'  He  was  discouraged  to  find  that  the  tracts 
which  had  been  sent  into  circulation  by  the  missionaries, 
were  so  little  able  to  bear  scrutiny,  and  was  mortified  in 
"  being  obliged,  as  chairman  of  the  Court  of  Directors,  to 
lay  these  communications  before  its  members,  with  several 
of  whom  he  had  pleaded  on  behalf  of  the  Mission  with  all 
his  might."  He  subsequently  wrote  in  great  dejection  of 
spirits :  "  If  these  translations  are  just,  the  good  men  have 
been  wanting  in  prudence  and  circumspection/  They 
have  given  too  much  occasion  to  those  who  seek  occasion, 
and   have  been  the  means  of  great  mortification   and 

c  c  4 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


392  HISTORY  OF  THE  SEBAMPORB  MISSION.      [Chap.  Till. 

trouble  to  those  circumstanced  as  I  am,  who  have   a 
difficult  battle  to  fight  standing  on  the  best  ground,  but 
am  sadly  weakened  and  hampered  when  the  ground  will 
not  support  me."     Mr.  Fuller  informed  Dr.  Carey  that 
Mr.  Grant  had  sent  him  the  translation  of  a  tract,  entitled 
the  "  Rise  of  Wisdom,"  and  he  expressed  great  surprise 
that  such  a  publication  should  have  issued  from  their  press. 
Mr.  Fuller  observed  that  he  could  not  believe  it  to  have 
been  sanctioned  by  his  friends;  that,  if  it  had  been,  he  must 
give  them  up  at  once  as  utterly  unfit  for  their  stations, 
and  scarcely  worthy  of  toleration.     The  tract  was  com- 
posed by  a  learned  Brahmin,  intimately  acquainted  with  the 
dogmas  of  the  Hindoo  creed,  and  disgusted  with  its  priest- 
craft and  superstition ;  the  language  was  therefore  more 
pungent  and  severe  than  that  which  a  European  would  have 
been  disposed  to  use.     But  it  must  not  be  forgotten  that 
the  translation  of  this  tract,  as  well  as  of  all  the  others, 
was  made  in  a  spirit  of  the  most  unscrupulous  hostility  to 
the    missionaries,   and  with   the  undisguised    object  of 
enflaming  the   Government  in  India  and    in    England 
against  them.     The  translation  was  grossly  and  wantonly 
incorrect,  a  mere  caricature  of  the  original ;  with   the 
exception  of  the  word  "  tyrant,"  as  applied  to  Mahomed, 
which  had  been  foisted  in  without  the  knowledge  of  the 
missionaries,  there  was  not  an  expression  which  would  not 
have  been  found  susceptible  of  a  different  and  unexcep- 
tionable signification.     If  the  government  of  the  day  had 
not  been  acting  under  the  influence  of  panic  and  prejudice, 
the  unfairness  of  proscribing  the  tracts,  and  entering  on 
a  crusade  against  those  who  had  issued  them,  without 
giving  them  an  opportunity  of  vindicating  the  character 
the  pamphlets,  would  have  been  at  once  apparent.     Nor 
would  the  Government,  disregarding  an  invariable  rule, 
have  admitted  the  fidelity  of  translations  which  were  not 
authenticated  by  the  signature  of  the  translator.     The 
missionaries  were  condemned  without  a  hearing.     More- 
over, it  has  been  already  stated,  that  about  two  years 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1808.]  HISTORY  OF  THE   SERAMPOBE  MISSION.  393 

before  this  time,  some  natives  in  Calcutta  submitted 
several  of  the  Serampore  tracts  to  a  member  of  Govern- 
ment, known  to  be  inimical  to  missions.  He  determined 
to  bring  the  subject  forward  officially,  but  was  persuaded 
by  Mr.  Buchanan  to  procure  a  translation  of  the  tracts 
before  he  committed  himself.  The  translations  were 
made,  and  the  tracts  appeared  so  unobjectionable,  that  the 
design  of  appealing  to  Government  was  given  up.  One  of 
those  tracts  was  the  "  Rise  of  Wisdom." 

In  the  intercourse  which  arose  out  of  these  transactions, 
Mr.  Grant  stated  to  Mr.  Fuller,  "  that  with  a  prudent, . 
still,  and  quiet  mode  of  procedure,  the  mis-  Mr0rant.$ 
sionaries  were  likely  to  hold  their  ground,  and  H8K3SJ 
to  obtain  more  liberty  by  degrees."  To  Mr.  iuioa' 
Fuller's  enquiry,  whether  any  more  missionaries  would  be 
allowed  to  go  out,  Mr.  Grant  replied  emphatically,  none. 
"  But  what,"  asked  Mr.  Fuller,  "  would  be  the  consequence 
of  sending  them  out  byway  of  America?"  Mr.  Grant  replied 
that  they  would  be  sent  back  immediately,  and  that  the 
good  understanding  which  seemed  to  exist  with  the  mission- 
aries on  the  spot,  would  be  seriously  affected,  for,  he  added, 
"  you  have  no  lofiger  a  Danish  Serampore  to  send  them  to." 
Mr.  Fuller's  correspondence  with  his  Serampore  friends,  at 
this  difficult  period,  is  deserving  of  particular  notice :  "  It 
may  also  be  that  you  should  go  on  without  a  toleration  ; 
that  the  hand  of  God  in  preserving  the  bush  on  fire  from 
being  consumed,  may  be  more  apparent.  Twelve  years 
ago,  when  thousands  in  London  were  intoxicated  with  the 
glory  of  the  'Duff'  (a  missionary  vessel  sent  to  the 
South  Sea  Islands  by  the  London  Missionary  Society),  one 
very  good  man  said  to  me ;  6  You  mean  well,  but  you 
have  no  strength,'  1  answered  nothing,  but  thought  it  a 
boast  which  would  prove  vain.  Of  late,  some  with  you 
have  said,  'The  Baptists  mean  well,  but  they  have  no 
security.'  True,  and  by  our  want  of  strength  and 
security,  if  we  properly  feel  our  dependence  on  God,  we 
may  be  more  likely  to  pray  and  so  succeed.  .  .  .  God  has 


Digitized  by 


Google 


394  HISTORY  OF  THE  SKRAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  Yin. 

fixed  yon  and  your  companions  in  a  post  of  eminence 

and  difficulty,  but  hitherto  He  has  helped  you.     It  may 

be  His  will  that  we  should  have  no  legal  security 

Mr.  Faller'f  -  •       t      t  i  •  &  J 

ktrer  to  6«ri».   granted  to  us  in  India,  that  it  may  appear  to 
be,  not  by  might  nor  by  power,  but  by  His  own 
spirit.     You  talk  of  our  petitioning  Parliament  on  the 
renewal  of  the  charter  for  a  toleration.     I  recently  asked 
Lord  Teignmouth  what  he  thought  of  such  a  step.     *  By- 
no  means,'  said  he, 4  unless  the  member  who  may  introduce 
the  subject  into  Parliament,    Mr.   Wilberforce,    should 
request  it  in  aid  of  his  efforts.9  ...  I  rejoice  in  all  your 
literary  undertakings,  as  they  afford  not  only  the  means  of 
spreading  the  word  of  truth,  but  a  shelter  to  you.     Had 
you  been  a  company  of  illiterate  men,  humanly  speaking, 
you  must  ere  now  have  been  crushed.     God  gave  Daniel 
and  his  companions  wisdom  for  a  preservative."     Notwith- 
standing the  disheartening  aspect  of  circumstances,  Mr. 
Fuller  was  still  bent  on  sending  out  additional  labourers  to 
Serampore.     But  as  the  settlement  was  now  in  the  hands 
of  the  British  authorities,  this  could  no  longer  be  done 
openly.     He,  therefore,  inquired  of  Mr.  Grant  whether 
permission  could  be  obtained  to  embark  a  young  man,  an 
artist,  whom  the  missionaries  were  anxious  to  obtain,  with 
a  view  to  the  engraving  of  the  Chinese  Scriptures.     Mr. 
Grant  said,  that,  as  the  missionaries  appeared  from  the  last 
accounts  to  be  on  a  better  footing  with  the  Governor- 
General,  they  might  petition  him  on  the  subject  with 
greater  confidence.     Should  the  Government  in  India  take 
a  favourable  view  of  the  application,  it  would  be  referred 
to  Leadenhall  Street,  and  pennission  might  thus  be  ob- 
tained.    In  allusion  to  this  communication,  Mr.  Sutcliff, 
writing  on  behalf  of  Mr.  Fuller,  said  that  they  had  three 
young  candidates  for  missionary  labour,  and  that,  if  per- 
mission could  be  obtained  for  Mr.  Lawson  to  go  out  as  an 
artist,  Mr.  Williams  might  be  represented  as  a  classical 
scholar  and  a  translator,  and  Mr.  James  as  a  schoolmaster. 
To  such  equivocal  counsels  were  men  of  the  highest 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1808]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SEBAMPORE  MISSION.  395 

probity  and  honour  obliged  to  resort,  to  evade  the  hos- 
tility of  Government,  and  secure  the  admission  of  Chris- 
tianity into  India. 

In  the  early  portion  of  this  year,  a  discussion,  by  no 
means  agreeable,  arose  between  the  Missionaries  at  Seram- 
pore  and  the  leading  members  of  the  London 
Missionary  Society.  That  Society  was  formed  *•  CJEjj^ 
two  years  after  Mr.  Fuller  and  Mr.  Carey  had 
set  the  example  of  missionary  enterprise.  It  was  in- 
tended to  comprehend  the  efforts  of  those  who  were 
agreed  on  the  subject  of  baptism,  however  widely  they 
might  differ  on  questions  of  Church  polity.  Perhaps  it 
was  owing  to  the  broad  basis  of  its  construction,  perhaps 
also  to  its  more  extensive  influence  and  resources,  that 
it  assumed  a  tone  of  higher  pretension  towards  the 
Baptist  Missionary  Society  than  either  Mr.  Fuller  or 
Dr.  Carey  and  his  associates  were  disposed  to  submit  to. 
The  Society  took  thfc  designation  of  The  Missionary 
Society,  and  Mr.  Fuller  was  accustomed,  when  alluding  to 
it,  to  write  the  word  THE  in  capital  letters,  and  many 
facetious  remarks  did  he  make,  in  his  letters  to  Serampore, 
on  the  pride  which  "  lurked  under  the  definite  article." 
Though  a  feeling  of  undue  assumption  was  too  often 
apparent  among  some  of  its  leading  men,  a  most  friendly 
correspondence  was  maintained  between  the  two  bodies, 
and  Dr.  Carey  had  advised  Mr.  Hardcastle,  the  treasurer, 
with  whom  he  maintained  a  regular  and  most  friendly 
correspondence,  to  establish  the  missionaries  whom  they 
were  preparing  to  send  to  India,  in  the  Telinga,  now 
called  the  Teloogoo  country.  Mr.  Cran  and  Mr.  Des- 
granges  were,  therefore,  sent  out  to  their  destination ;  and 
happening  to  reach  Madras  while  Lord  William  Bentinck 
was  still  Governor  of  that  Presidency,  were  allowed  to 
proceed  to  the  interior  without  hindrance.  Dr.  Carey, 
who  bad  been  engaged  for  some  time  in  a  translation  of 
the  New  Testament  into  that  language,  recommended  Mr. 
Desgranges  to  bend  his  attention  to  this  work  also,  as 


Digitized  by 


Google 


396  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  VIIL 

being  indispensable  to  the  success  of  his  labours,  and  also 
useful  in  accelerating  his  own  progress  in  the  language. 
At  the  same  time  knowing  the  uncertainty  of  life,  more 
especially  in  India,  he  did  not  think  fit  to  relinquish  his 
own  translation  at  once.  Mr.  Desgranges  accepted  his 
advice,  and,  after  having  made  some  progress  in  the 
language,  commenced  the  translation ;  but  the  Directors 
of  the  Missionary  Society  expressed  their  displeasure  that 
Dr.  Carey  had  not  simultaneously  relinquished  the  trans- 
lation he  had  been  engaged  in,  and  remarked  that  a 
translation  made  by  a  Christian  man,  must  be  far  pre- 
ferable to  one  prepared  by  a  wicked  Brahmin. 

The  same  sort  of  invidious  remark  was  made  in  refer- 
ence to  the  Chinese  version.  In  the  year  1807,  more 
„  „   u        than  a  twelvemonth  after  Mr.  Marshman  had 

Mr.  Marahman 

chffJ!?t5iS£    entered  upon  his  Chinese  studies,  the  London 
Uon*  Missionary  Society  sent   Mr.,  afterwards  Dr. 

Morrison  to  China  with  an  express  view  to  the  translation 
of  the  Scriptures  into  that  language.     To  assist  him  in 
these  labours  he  obtained  from  the  British  Museum,  a 
copy  of  an  excellent  translation  of  the  four  Gospels,  and 
of  some  of  the  Epistles,  made  by  a  Roman   Catholic 
missionary.   Mr.  Morrison  was  a  scholar  of  great  promise, 
and,  on  his  arrival  in  China,  applied  to  the  study  of  the 
language  with  assiduity,  and  prosecuted  his  literary  and 
biblical  labours  with  the  greatest  success.   But  the  efforts 
made  by  Mr.  Marshman,  at  the  same  time  in  another 
locality,  to  open  the  language  of  China  to  his  own  country- 
men, and  to  enrich  it  with  the  Oracles  of  Divine  Truth, 
excited  a  feeling  of  jealousy  in  the  minds  of  some  of  the 
Directors  of  that  Society.    Mr.  Burder,  the  secretary,  in  a 
letter  written  at  this  time  to  Dr.  Carey,  animadverted  in 
severe  terms  on  the  continued  prosecution  of  these  labours 
after  The  Missionary  Society  had  announced  their  intention 
to  take  charge  of  the  version.     He  sneered  at  a  translation 
made,   as    he    observed,  through  the  spectacles  of  an 
Armenian.     To  all  these  observations  Dr.  Carey  replied 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1808.]  HISTORY  OF   THE   SERAMPORE   MISSION-  397 

with  his    usual  frankness  and  simplicity.      As  to  the 
translation  he  was  engaged  in,  being  the  work  of  a  wicked 
Brahmin,  he  affirmed  that  he  printed  no  translation  till 
it  had  been  revised  and  re-revised,  that  he  never  allowed 
a  single  word  or  mode  of  construction  to  pass  without 
examination,  that  he  had  read  every  proof-sheet  two  or 
three  times,  and  corrected  it  with  his  own  hand,  that  he 
and   Mr.  Marshman  then  compared  every  verse  with  the 
Greek   and   Hebrew;   and   Mr.  Ward   finally  read  over 
every  sheet  with  the  pundit.     He  said  that  three  of  the 
translations,  the  Bengalee,  the  Sanscrit,  and  the  Hindoo- 
stanee  had  been  made  with  his  own  hand,  and  that  he 
constantly  availed  himself  of  the  help  of  the  most  learned 
natives,  and  should  consider  it  criminal  not  to  do  so  ;  but 
that  he  committed  his  judgment  to  none  of  them.     He 
stated  that  the  idea  that  a  translation  made  by  a  learned 
Brahmin  would  be  unintelligible  to  the  body  of  the  people, 
was  founded  in  ignorance,  and  that  the  missionaries  of 
the   London   Society  would   be   under  the   necessity  of 
following  the  same  process  of  translation  which  he  him- 
self   had   adopted.     He  remarked   that   Mr.    Marshman 
pursued  the  same  course  with  regard  to  the  Chinese,  and 
never  passed  a  single  verse  without  the  most  careful  and 
conscientious  revision.     He  observed  that  he  never  ex- 
pected the  first  attempt  in  any  case  to  be  perfect,  and  on 
this  principle  had  advised  the   missionaries  at  Vizaga- 
patam  to  put  their  version  to  press,  so  that  each  might 
avail  himself  of  the  labours  and  experience  of  the  other ; 
and  that  a  really  good  version  might  be  the  result  of  their 
united  exertions ;   adding,  "  I  care  nothing  for  the  mere 
honour  of  being  known  as  the  translator  of  the  Scriptures 
in  the  Telinga  or  any  other  language." 

In  the  course  of  this  year,  Dr.  Carey  took  for  his  second 
wife  Miss  Charlotte  Rhumohr,  who  had  visited  Seram- 
pore  for  the  benefit  of  her  health,  about  the  Dr.  c^, 
time  when  the  Mission  was  first  established ;  •econd  mmrrU»e- 
and  had   since  continued  to  reside  there,  on  a  footing 


Digitized  by 


Google 


398  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Cbaf.  VOL 

of  the  most  friendly  intercourse  with  the  missionaries,  in 
whose  labours  she  took  a  lively  interest.     She  was  a 
member  of  the  patrician  family  of  Ahlfeldt,  in  the  Duchy 
of    Schleswick,   and  her  sister  was  married  to   Count 
Wornstedt,  Chamberlain  to  the  King  of  Denmark.     She 
was  about  the  same  age  with  Dr.  Carey,  diminutive  in 
size,  and  somewhat  deformed  in  figure;  but  whatever 
was  wanting  in  symmetry  of  form,  was  amply  compen- 
sated by  the  endowments  of  her  mind.     She  had  received 
that  complete  and  finished  education  which  is  given  in 
families  of  distinction  on  the   Continent ;  and  her  sub- 
sequent confinement  to  the  couch  by  protracted  illness 
had  given   her  ample  opportunity  for   cultivating    the 
literature  of  Europe.     She  conversed  with  equal  fluency 
in  French,  German,  Danish,  and  English,  and  was  familiar 
with  the  classical  authors  in  these  languages,  as  well  as 
with  those  of  Italy.     She  was  not  less  distinguished  by 
feelings  of  deep  piety,  and  an  ardent  desire  for  the  spi- 
ritual improvement  of  the  natives  of  India.     She  enjoyed 
the  esteem  and  respect  of  all  the  members  of  the  Mission 
family.     She  was  eminently  suited  to  be  the  companion 
of  a  man  like  Dr.  Carey ;  and  their  union  enabled  him, 
after  the  laborious  duties  of  the  day,  to  enjoy  that  brac- 
ing relaxation  in  her  animating  conversation  to  which 
he    had  hitherto  been   a   stranger.      During    her   resi- 
dence at  Serampore,  she  had  erected  a  house  for  her  own 
residence  on  the  banks  of  the  river,  which  she   made 
over  to  the   Mission  on  her  marriage,  with  the  under- 
standing that  a  sum,  equivalent  to  the  rent  of  it,  should 
be   perpetually  appropriated   to  the   support  of  native 
preachers ;  and  the  request,  after  the  lapse  of  fifty  years, 
continues  to  be  sacredly  fulfilled. 

It  has  been  stated  in  a  previous  chapter,  that  Col.  Bie, 

the  Governor  of  Serampore,  when  the  missionaries  sought 

refuge  there  in  1799,  offered  to  make  over  to 

cb^JSSL.  them  the  church  he  was  about  to  erect,  as  an 

pow'  additional  inducement  to  them  to  fix  the  seat  of 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1808.]  HISTORY   OF   THE   8ERAMPORE   MISSION.  399 

their  mission  in  the  town.  The  church  was  completed  just 
before  the  second  capture  of  the  town  by  the  English. 
It  was  a  neat  edifice,  but  without  any  pretensions  to 
architectural  or  even  ecclesiastical  symmetry.  It  was 
built  after  the  model  of  Lutheran  churches  in  Denmark, 
the  upper  end  being  appropriated  to  the  purposes  of  an 
altar,  of  which,  however,  it  never  possessed  more  than 
the  rudiments,  and  which  was  wanting,  moreover,  in  the 
virtue  of  orientation.  The  spire  was  surmounted  by  a 
gilded  cross,  which  was  visible  for  many  miles  round,  and 
gave  an  air  of  Christian  civilisation  to  the  scenery  amidst 
its  heathen  associations.  The  church  was  erected  partly 
by  contributions  raised  in  India,  and  partly  by  subscrip- 
tions from  Denmark.  The  largest  donor  was  Lord 
Wellesley,  who  had  at  the  time  completed  the  beautiful 
park  across  the  river  at  Barrackpore,  which  forms  the 
country  residence  of  the  Governors- General  It  was  popu- 
larly believed  that  his  donation  of  8000  rupees  originated 
quite  as  much  in  his  taste  for  the  picturesque  as  in  feel- 
ings of  piety,  and  that  he  accompanied  it  with  the  remark 
that  nothing  was  wanting  to  complete  the  view  from  his 
park  but  a  spire  in  the  foreground.  About  six  months 
after  the  occupation  of  the  town  by  the  British  authorities, 
a  memorial  was  presented  to  the  Government  in  Calcutta 
by  the  principal  inhabitants,  requesting  that  the  mission- 
aries might  be  permitted  to  hold  divine  service  in  the 
church.  This  request  was  immediately  acceded  to ;  but 
the  dread  of  giving  offence  to  the  natives  in  the  matter  of 
their  religion  still  lingered  in  the  Council  chamber,  and  in 
the  official  communication  which  was  made  on  the  occa- 
sion, the  missionaries  were  desired  to  "  confine  themselves 
to  the  performance  of  divine  service  in  the  usual  manner, 
and  carefully  to  abstain  from  all  discourses  of  a  nature  to 
offend  the  religious  prejudices  of  the  natives,  any  neglect 
of  which  condition  would  be  immediately  followed  by  a 
revocation  of  the  privilege  now  granted."  Dr.  Carey 
opened  the  church  in  the  month   of  July,  1808,   and 


Digitized  by 


Google 


400  HISTORY  OF  THE   SERAMPOBB   MISSION.       [Chap.  YIU. 

preached  a  sermon  from  the  text,  "  Arise,  0  Lord,  into  thy 
rest,  thou  and  the  ark  of  thy  strength."  In  that  church 
he  and  his  colleagues  and  their  successors,  Mr.  Mack  and 
Mr.  Denham,  continued  to  preach  the  vital  doctrines  of 
the  Gospel  for  forty-three  years,  without  fee  or  reward. 
In  1845,  the  settlement  of  Serampore  was  transferred 
by  sale  to  the  English  Government,  together  with  the 
church,  and  the  English  Commissioners  made  over  the 
keys  to  Mr.  Denham,  requesting  him  to  continue  his 
ministrations  as  usual.  Six  years  after,  Dr.  Daniel 
Wilson,  the  Bishop  of  Calcutta,  expressed  a  wish  to  obtain 
it  for  the  performance  of  divine  service  according  to  the 
liturgy  of  the  Church  of  England.  It  was  accordingly 
transferred  to  him;  and  the  pulpit,  consecrated  by  so  many 
sacred  associations,  was  taken  down  to  make  room  for 
another,  and  sold  to  a  heathen  carpenter. 

The  progress  of  conversion  in  the  present  year  did  not 
equal  that  of  former  years.     "  Conversions,"  says   Mr. 

Ward,  "among  the  heathen  are  very  rare; 
m»n^OT«tnora  things  in  Calcutta  very  encouraging.     Health, 

harmony,  and  some  degree  of  activity  among  us. 
If  God  be  pleased  to  pour  out  his  spirit  among  the  hea- 
then, we  shall  go  on  in  triumph,  but  the  absence  of  this 
makes  everything  unsatisfactory."  But  they  were  cheered 
by  the  success  which  attended  their  labours  among  the 
Armenians  and  Portuguese  in  Calcutta.  Their  private 
room  in  the  Cossitollah  was  thronged  with  hearers,  and  the 
erection  of  the  chapel  in  the  Lall  Bazar  was  pushed  for- 
ward with  redoubled  vigour.  The  discouragements  of  the 
senior  missionaries,  however,  arose  not  only  from  the 
comparative  fewness  of  converts,  but  also  from  the  diffi- 
culty of  devising  a  plan  for  the  organisation  of  the 
mission,  which  should  harmonise  conflicting  dispositions, 
and  promote  its  efficiency.  Every  effort  was  made  to 
promote  this  spirit  of  co-operation,  and  many  con- 
cessions were  admitted,  but  with  very  little  permanent 
effect.   It  was  scarcely  reasonable  to  expect  that  ten  men, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1808.]  HISTOBY  OF  THE  SERAMTORE  MISSION.  401 

with  great  diversities  of  temper,  the  greater  number  of 
whom  were  married,  would  be  able  to  act  together  with- 
out discord,  in  an  undertaking  which  rested  on  the  basis 
of  an  unexampled  and  rigid  self-denial,  even  though  it 
was  enforced  by  the  example  as  well  as  the  authority  of 
those  who  had  originated  and  presided  over  the  establish- 
ment. The  control  necessarily  exercised  by  the  three 
senior  missionaries  was  unpalatable  to  their  missionary 
brethren,  and  the  reflections  and  contentions  to  which  it 
gave  rise,  were  so  sharp  as  to  require  a  reference  to  the 
Committee  in  England.  Respecting  one  of  the  discon- 
tented, Mr.  Fuller  wrote  out,  "  When  I  read  the  corre- 
spondence with  him,  I  was  shocked ;  and  if  he  had  not 
repented,  I  should  have  voted  for  nothing  short  of  his 
recall.  Such  turbulence  of  spirit,  if  persisted  in,  must  be 
destructive  to  the  cause."  Of  another,  he  wrote,  "  We 
have  not  recalled  him,  but  have  told  him  that  if  he  chooses 
to  come  home,  we  would  cheerfully  bear  the  expense." 
To  put  an  end  to  these  contentions,  which  formed  a  more 
serious  obstruction  to  progress,  than  even  the  hostility  of 
Government,  Dr.  Carey  and  his  two  colleagues  proposed 
that  the  management  of  the  mission  should  be  vested  in 
a  body  chosen  by  a  majority  of  the  missionaries.  Had 
this  plan  been  carried  into  effect,  the  mission  must  soon 
have  ceased  to  exist.  Happily,  Mr.  Fuller  peremptorily 
refused  to  ratify  this  democratic  constitution,  and  to 
entrust  the  welfare  of  the  mission  to  a  body  of  electors 
whose  inexperience  and  passions,  but  for  the  wisdom 
and  firmness  of  the  three  senior  brethren,  would  long 
since  have  broken  up  the  establishment.  Dr.  Ryland 
wrote  on  the  subject  as  already  stated :  "  Who  of  us  ever 
advanced  the  democratic  nonsense  of  every  apprentice 
we  send  you  being  equal  the  moment  he  set  his  foot  on 
the  soil  of  Bengal  ?  You  may  have  had  such  notions. 
We  never  infused  them  into  your  minds."  Mr.  Fuller, 
therefore,  insisted  on  keeping  the  nomination  of  the 
managers  in  the  hands  of  the  Committee  at  home,  and 


VOL.  I.  fDD 


Digitized  by 


Google 


402  IIISTOBY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.VIIL 

very  justly  remarked,  that  they  had  no  right  to  relinquish 
this  authority ;  for  if  the  Society  had  not  the  power  of 
selecting  those  who  were  to  be  entrusted  with  the  respon- 
sibilities of  the  mission,  they  could  not  be  said  to  possess 
any  power  whatever. 

This  controlling  authority  was,  therefore,  delegated  to 
Dr.  Carey,  Mr.  Marsh  man,  and  Mr.  Ward,  for  their  lives, 
remark,  on  thete  and  they  resolved  henceforth  to  act  with  more 
difficulties.  decision  in  the  government  of  the  mission,  as 
the  representatives  of  the  Society.  But  the  severe  restric- 
tions which  the  economy  established  at  Serampore  imposed 
on  individual  freedom,  and  the  great  sacrifice  of  personal 
and  social  comfort  which  it  involved,  continued  to  be  a  fer- 
tile source  of  discontent  to  those  who  did  not  participate 
in  the  feelings  of  devotement  in  which  that  economy  origi- 
nated. The  junior  missionaries  were  offended  at  the 
stringency  of  the  sumptuary  rules ;  they  revolted  against 
the  authority  exercised  by  the  seniors,  and  filled  the  ears 
of  the  committee  with  complaints;  Dr.  Carey  and  his 
colleagues  had  fallen  into  the  error  of  creating  a  system 
which  demanded  Moravian  self-denial,  without  conceding 
Moravian  equality.  They  did  not  perceive  that  the  indi- 
vidual enthusiasm,  which  could  alone  sustain  such  self- 
denial,  was  destroyed  by  the  principle  of  obedience  to 
superior  authority.  Mr.  Fuller  sent  them  the  most 
affectionate  and  faithful  admonitions,  advising  them  to 
watch  over  themselves  as  well  as  others,  and  to  be  among 
their  younger  brethren  more  as  fathers  than  as  masters. 
Dr.  Ryland,  writing  to  Mr.  Marshman,  inquired  whether 
it  was  quite  needless  to  hint  to  him,  that,  however  com- 
mendable his  own  frugality  and  self-denial  might  be,  it 
was  not  to  be  expected  that  every  young  missionary  would 
equal  him  and  Mrs.  Marshman  in  these  gifts.  There  can 
be  little  doubt  that  these  admonitions  were  judicious  and 
salutary,  for  the  energy  of  great  minds,  in  the  intense 
pursuit  of  a  great  and  absorbing  object,  has  a  natural 
tendency  to  absolutism.     But  before  the  letters  of  Mr. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1808.]  HISTORY  OF  THE   SERAMPORE   MISSION.  403 

Fuller  and  Dr.  Ryland  reached  Serampore,  the  senior 
missionaries  had  been  overpowered  by  opposition,  and 
driven  to  adopt  a  new  constitution  for  the  mission. 

This  constitution,  however,  did  not  last  #long,  and  is 
interesting  chiefly  from  the  exhibition  it  affords  of  that 
spirit  of  unexampled  frugality,  and  that  subor-  NewconstltutIon 
dination  of  individual  feelings  to  the  promotion  of  the  MiMlon- 
of  an  important  enterprise,  which  were  at  the  time  deemed 
indispensable  to  its  success.  The  document  began  by 
stating,  that,  in  a  letter  recently  received  from  the  Com- 
mittee, they  were  requested  to  act  as  managers  of  the 
mission  for  life,  and  that  the  choice  of  their  successors 
would  be  regulated  by  the  Society.  The  time,  they  said, 
has  now  arrived  for  their  missionary  brethren  to  serve 
the  cause  in  separate  stations,  and,  in  reality,  to  form  dis- 
tinct missions.  The  number  of  missionaries  embraced  in 
this  new  plan  was  seven,  and  it  was  proposed  to  fix  the 
allowance  at  seventy  rupees  a  month  for  each  missionary 
and  his  wife,  ten  rupees  a  month  being  added  for  the 
first,  and  seven  rupees  for  each  succeeding  child.  The 
expense  of  the  seven  missionaries  would  thus — at  the  ex- 
change of  the  day  —  amount  to  1000/.  annually.  Out  of 
this  salary,  the  missionary  was  at  liberty  to  reserve  a  small 
sum,  not  exceeding  ten  rupees  a  month,  as  a  personal 
allowance,  and  to  furnish  a  detailed  account  of  the  expen- 
diture of  the  rest,  to  be  transmitted  to  the  Society.  Any 
surplus  which  might  remain  out  of  this  very  scanty  pro- 
vision was  not  to  be  considered  in  the  light  of  individual 
property,  because  this  would  be  repugnant  to  the  leading 
principle  of  the  mission,  and,  by  encouraging  a  sordid 
concern  for  petty  savings,  eat  out  every  missionary  feeling. 
Every  sum  obtained  by  the  labour  of  any  of  the  mis- 
sionaries, or  from  presents,  was  to  be  inserted  in  the 
monthly  accounts  as  mission  property.  The  children  of 
the  missionaries  were  to  be  educated,  free  of  all  expense  to 
the  parents,  at  Serampore,  where  an  asylum  and  a  suitable 
allowance  were  also  to  be  provided  for  the  widow  and  the 

J>  J>  2 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


404  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  VIII. 

orphan.  Such  was  the  foundation  on  which  Dr.  Carey 
and  his  two  colleagues  desired  to  build  up  the  missionary 
edifice ;  and  it  was  on  these  principles  they  hoped  to  see 
the  establishment  of  a  hundred  stations,  whenever  the 
country  should  be  open  to  them.  It  was  a  noble  and  dis- 
interested project ;  but  it  supposed  the  existence  of  a  lofty 
devotion  not  to  be  expected  in  the  ordinary  course  of 
human  affairs,  and  it  demanded  a  sacrifice  of  domestic  con- 
venience to  which  few  could  be  induced  to  submit.  A  few 
years  after,  when  the  mission  was  remodelled  on  the  death 
of  Mr.  Fuller,  it  ceased  to  exist,  except  as  a  memorial  of 
virtuous  and  consecrated  energy. 

From  the  letters  sent  to  the  Society  by  Dr.  Carey  and 
his  two  colleagues,  about  this  time,  a  few  brief  extracts 
may  be  useful  to  exhibit  their  views  and  feelings. 
geI^r.Tthe  u  We  have,  according  to  your  repeated  direc- 
tions, assumed  the  management  of  the  mission, 
regulated  the  salary  at  each  station  till  we  hear  further 
from  you,  declared  that  each  station  is  free  from  the  con- 
trol of  another,  and  that  it  belongs  to  you  to  appoint  those 
who  shall  now  direct,  or  succeed  to  the  direction.  We  beg 
that  you  will  write  expressly  on  these  subjects  and  parti- 
cularly fix  the  salaries,  pointing  out  what  each  single 

brother,  or  man  and  wife  or  child  shall  receive 

If  the  translations  be  one  of  the  greatest  objects  of  our 
work,  then  to  provide  brethren  to  engage  in  them  is  a  duty 
of  as  much  magnitude,  as  it  is  to  give  the  Sacred  Scriptures 
to  those  who  are  perishing  for  want  of  them.  Do  not,  dear 
brethren,  consider  this  as  a  matter  of  small  consequence. 
Exclusive  of  the  translations,  the  affairs  of  this  family  and 
of  the  mission  at  large  can  never  be  managed  by  less  than 
three,  nor  will  a  less  number  do  for  the  translations. 
These  brethren  must  first  know  Latin,  Greek  and  Hebrew, 
and  then  the  genius  of  Eastern  languages,  and  the  particular 
language  into  which  they  are  to  translate.  If  they  be 
qualified  in  the  classics,  three  or  four  years'  study  in  this 
country  will  be  necessary  to  qualify  them  for  any  real 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1808.]  HISTORY  OF  THE   8ERAMPORE  MISSION.  405 

labour.  If  you  consent  to  let  the  translations  die  with  the 
present  labourers,  still  the  whole  mission  wants  to  be 
managed.  If  it  fall  into  one  family  all  will  be  ruined;  if 
into  two,  who  shall  become  the  day's  man.  If  three  per- 
sons be  found,  yet  if  they  are  discordant,  all  will  come  to 
nothing.  The  difficulty  of  management  here  is  that  our 
union  is  of  that  nature  that  it  cannot  exist,  unless  all  selfish 
and  turbulent  passions  are  subdued.  ....  We  have 
reason  to  be  abundantly  thankful  that  our  lives  and  our 
health  have  been  so  mercifully  preserved.  Yet  we  exceed- 
ingly long  to  hear  of  some  tried,  thoroughly  tried  and  quali- 
fied brother,  or  brethren,  coming  out  to  prepare  to  succeed 
us.  Dear  brethren,  after  the  mission  has  weathered  so 
many  storms,  within  and  without,  shall  it  be  given  up  a 
prey  to  passion,  rashness,  and  inexperience,  and  all  our 
families  left  at  the  mercy  of  those  whose  passions  have 
again  and  again  shaken  it  to  its  foundation  ?  .  ...  The 
work  here  has  been  carried  to  such  a  state,  and  is  capable 
of  producing  such  great  consequences  in  a  few  years,  that 
the  whole  Christian  world  will  rise  up  against  you,  not- 
withstanding all  you  have  done,  and  us  also,  if  we  suffer 
it  to  come  to  nothing.  Of  what  use  will  this  large  estab- 
lishment of  presses,  types  in  so  many  languages,  and 
translations  half  done,  be  in  a  few  years,  if  everything  is  to 
fall  with  those  who  are  now  employed  in  it  ?  And  not  only 
will  the  translations  come  to  nothing,  unless  supported  by 
brethren  of  talent  and  tried  principles,  but  disorganisation 
at  Serampore  will  shake  to  its  very  foundation  every  estab- 
lishment you  have  in  India In  thus  writing, 

dear  brethren,  we  wish  not  to  exalt  ourselves.  If  we  may 
escape  condemnation  for  our  missionary  sins,  we  shall  be 
infinite  debtors  to  divine  grace,  but  we  wish  to  save  the 
mission  from  a  speedy  wreck  after  we  are  laid  in  the 
dust." 

In  the  autumn  of  the  present  year,  Mr.  Fuller,  who  had 
been  in  the  habit  of  making  a  triennial  visit  to  Scotland  to 
foster  the  spirit  of  missionary  zeal,  and  to  collect  funds 

D  D    3 


Digitized  by 


Google 


406  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  Vm. 

for  the  mission,  made  a  vigorous  effort  to  raise    sub- 
scriptions for  the  Serampore  translations.     Soon  after  Mr. 
Buchanan  had  directed  the  treasurers  of  the 
collect"™  for  the  Translation  Fund  in  Calcutta  to  make  no  further 

translation*.  ... 

payments  from  it  to  the  Serampore  missionaries 
except  on  the  joint  signature  of  Mr.  Brown  and  Mr.  Udny, 
Mr.  Marshman  drew  up  a  memoir  or  report  of  the  progress 
which  had  been  made  in  the  work,  and  transmitted  it  to 
Mr.  Fuller,  who  sent  it  immediately  to  press  before  he 
proceeded  on  his  northern  tour.     Dr.  Stuart,  of  Dunearn, 
one  of  the  most  cordial  friends  of  the  missionary  cause,  and 
a  great  admirer  of  the  Serampore  missionaries,  reprinted 
the  memoir  in  Edinburgh,  and  distributed  the  impression 
through  Scotland,  in  order  to  pave    the  way  for  Mr. 
Fuller's  appeal.     It  produced  a  very  unexpected  and  ex- 
traordinary effect  in  that  country.     In  the  narrative  of  his 
journey  which  he   sent  to   Serampore,  Mr.  Fuller  said, 
"  Money  poured  in  like  rain  in  a  thunderstorm.     Those 
who  had  been  disputing  for  years  about  discipline,  weekly 
communion,   and    other  kindred    matters,   seemed  half- 
ashamed  of  their  differences.     One  of  them  said  to  me, 
what  little  things  are  we  employed  about,  compared  with 
this  ?    Tell  your  friends,  said  Dr.  Stuart,  to  go  on,  and  we 
will  furnish  them  with  money.    Thousands  flocked  to  hear 
me,  and  hundreds  went  away  too,  from  large  places,  because 
they  could  find  no  room."   After  travelling  twelve  hundred 
miles,  and  preaching  forty-two  sermons  in  about  six  weeks, 
Mr.  Fuller  reached  Kettering  in  November,  with  a  clear 
return  of  2000/. 

On  the  1st  of  January,  1809,  the  desire  which  Dr.  Carey 
and.  his  colleagues  had  so  long  entertained  of  possessing  a 

place  of  worship  in  Calcutta,  for  English  and 
ch^iTBMar     natfre  congregations,  was  accomplished.     The 

chapel  in  the  Bow  Bazar,  which  was  opened  by 
Dr.  Carey  on  that  day,  was  a  spacious,  lofty  and  elegant 
edifice,  with  a  chaste  gallery  on  three  sides,  and  a  noble 
portico  at  the  front  entrance,  and  did  no  little  credit  to 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1809  ]  HISTORY  OF  THE   SBBAMPORE  MISSION.  407 

the  taste  of  Mr.  Rolt,  the  architect.  It  was  the  third 
Protestant,  and  the  first  Dissenting  place  of  worship  in 
Calcutta.  The  entire  cost  amounted  to  about  3200/.,  of 
which  700/.  had  been  raised  by  subscriptions,  on  the 
first  issue  of  the  proposals,  and  laid  out  in  the  purchase 
and  the  clearing  of  the  ground,  and  1000/.  from  Mr. 
Marshman's  personal  solicitations  in  Calcutta.  This  sum 
was  soon  exhausted,  but  the  missionaries  were  determined 
not  to  allow  the  progress  of  the  work  to  be  suspended  for 
want  of  funds,  and  they  advanced  the  sums  which  were 
requisite  from  time  to  time,  from  their  own  resources. 
On  the  completion  of  the  chapel,  the  debt  which  had  thus 
been  incurred  was  found  to  amount  to  about  1500/.,  for 
which  the  trustees,  ten  in  number,  were  legally  answer- 
able, but  they  shrunk  from  the  responsibility  of  this 
obligation.  Unable  to  raise  the  necessary  funds  by  a 
second  appeal  to  the  public,  they  hypothecated  the 
chapel  to  the  missionaries  by  a  deed  of  mortgage,  which 
however  was  never  redeemed.  In  after  years,  when  all 
the  proceedings  of  the  Serampore  Missionaries  were  ran- 
sacked to  discover  cause  of  crimination,  and  every  act 
was  ascribed  to  the  most  objectionable  motives,  this  trans- 
action was  selected  as  an  object  of  particular  censure. 
But  it  admits  of  the  most  satisfactory  explanation :  by  a 
clause  in  the  original  deed,  the  chapel  was  to  be  open  to 
the  use  of  all,  but  it  was  subsequently  erected  by  the  ex- 
ertions of  men  of  only  one  denomination,  and  to  them  it 
was  mortgaged  by  the  body  of  trustees.  The  missionaries 
were  not  disposed  to  take  advantage  of  this  circumstance 
and  appropriate  it  to  their  own  exclusive  use,  and  invited 
Mr.  Forsyth,  the  only  missionary  in  Bengal  unconnected 
with  their  own  body,  to  select  his  own  hours  for  preaching 
to  his  little  flock,  and  he  continued  thus  to  labour  till 
he  voluntarily  relinquished  the  service.  For  seven  years 
after  the  completion  of  the  chapel,  there  was  no  other 
missionary  body  in  Calcutta  to  avail  itself  of  the  com- 
prehensive clause  in  the  original  deed.     In  1816,   the 

D  »    4 


Digitized  by 


Google 


408  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  VIU. 

London  Missionary  Society  established  a  mission  in  that 
city,  but  their  missionaries  found,  on  their  arrival,  that 
the  chapel  had  long  been  used  by  a  large  church  and 
congregation,  whose  stated  services  occupied  the  hours 
devoted  by  common  usage  to  public  worship  on  the 
Sabbath,  and  they  considered  it  more  advisable  to 
erect  a  chapel  of  their  own,  than  to  interfere  with  the 
devotions  of  another  and  a  long-established  body.  But 
although  the  hypothecation  of  the  building  in  1809  to  the 
Serampore  Missionaries  was  pronounced  by  their  detrac- 
tors to  be  utterly  indefensible,  yet ,  on  the  dissolution  of 
that  mission,  thirty  years  after,  it  was  taken  over  on  the 
same  footing  by  the  Baptist  Missionary.  Society,  and 
their  missionaries  continue  to  occupy  its  pulpit  on  the 
strength  of  that  calumniated  mortgage.  Three  months 
after  the  chapel  had  been  opened,  the  English  congrega- 
tion increased  to  two  hundred.  It  was  composed  chiefly 
of  the  middling  and  lower  classes  of  Christians  in  Cal- 
cutta, and  consisted,  in  fact,  of  the  same  description  of 
attendants,  who  had  filled  the  mission  Church  in  the  days 
of  Kiernandier,  and  deserted  it  when,  under  the  ministry 
of  Mr.  Brown,  it  became  the  sanctuary  of  the  gentry. 

The  mission  to  Bootan  had  been  suspended  by  the 

failure  of  two  successive  efforts  to  penetrate  the  country, 

but  the  Serampore  Missionaries  were  little  dis- 

Renewed  Mis-  ■■      .  .  •  •   i_      •  *  T  T &     ii  • 

•tonary attempt  posed  to  relinquish  it.  In  January  of  this 
m'  year,  Mr.  Robinson  left  Serampore  a  third  time 
for  that  country.  He  was  accompanied  by  a  young  man 
of  the  name  of  Cornish,  who  had  recently  arrived  from 
England,  and  joined  the  church  in  Calcutta,  and  mani- 
fested a  strong  desire  for  missionary  labour.  On  reaching 
Goamalty,  Mr.  Robinson's  courage  failed  him,  and  he 
informed  his  brethren  at  Serampore  that  he  felt  it  his 
duty  to  abandon  an  enterprise  associated  with  so  many 
difficulties  and  trials,  and  which  presented  so  slender  a 
prospect  of  success.  Mr.  Robinson  was  one  of  the  ablest 
men  whom  the  Society  had  sent  out  to  India  since  1799. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1809.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  409 

He  possessed  great  missionary  zeal  and  was  equal  to 
much  personal  exertion,  but  he  lacked  that  spring  of 
energy  which  distinguished  the  three  men  at  Serampore, 
and  which  derived  fresh  animation  from  every  fresh 
difficulty.  When  separated  from  their  advice  and  en- 
couragement, and  left  to  the  resources  of  his  own  mind, 
he  gave  way  to  despondency.  But  Dr.  Carey  immediately 
wrote  in  reply  to  urge  him  to  persevere  in  the  under- 
taking, and  endeavoured  to  infuse  some  portion  of  his 
own  enthusiasm  into  his  mind.  Mr.  Robinson  determined, 
therefore,  to  continue  the  journey.  On  arriving  at  Botehaut, 
the  frontier  station,  he  met  Dr.  Francis  Buchanan,  who 
was  returning  to  Calcutta  from  a  botanical  tour  through 
those  wild  regions.  The  interview  was  not  lost  on  Mr. 
Robinson.  He  did  not  fail  to  contrast  the  resolution 
which  could  brave  so  many  difficulties  in  the  cause  of 
science,  with  his  own  faint-heartednesss  in  the  cause  of 
religion,  and  these  reflections  gave  a  fresh  impulse  to  his 
mind.  Learning  from  Dr.  Buchanan  that  the  country 
was  in  a  very  disturbed  state,  he  resolved  to  establish 
himself  on  the  frontier,  and  apply  to  the  study  of  the 
language,  watching  a  favourable  opportunity  for  entering 
the  country  itself.  The  day  after  his  arrival  at  Botehaut, 
he  was  visited  by  the  Katmah,  or  chief  Bootan  officer  of 
the  district,  with  whom  a  friendly  intercourse  was 
established.  He  invited  Mr.  Robinson  to  his  residence 
and  promised  to  send  his  musicians  and  dancing  girls  to 
escort  him ;  but  Mr.  Robinson  escaped  the  compliment  by 
anticipating  the  hour  of  departure.  At  the  meeting,  the 
Katmah  evinced  a  cordial  desire  to  meet  his  wishes,  and 
presented  him  with  two  dirty  handkerchiefs  of  the  manu- 
facture of  the  country,  receiving  in  return  a  spy-glass  and 
a  watch.  Of  the  value  of  the  latter,  he  was  as  ignorant 
as  any  barbarian,  but  was  delighted  to  hear  it  tick  when 
applied  to  his  ear,  and  regarded  it  as  a  charm.  The  next 
day  he  entered  into  a  formal  friendship  with  Mr.  Robin- 
son, and  the  engagement  was  ratified  in  the  presence  of 


Digitized  by 


Google 


410  HISTORY  OP  THE  8ERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  VIE 

the  idol,  to  whom  some  oranges  and  walnuts  were  offered. 
The  Katinah  then  called  for  his  tea-pot,  and  poured  out  & 
cup  for  each,  but  before  he  partook  of  it  himself,  be 
turned  to  the  image,  apparently  offering  a  short  address. 
Fresh  presents  were  now  brought  forward,  and  the 
engagement  of  mutual  amity  was  publicly  announced. 
A  favourable  access  was  thus  obtained  to  the  country, 
and  Mr.  Robinson  immediately  began  to  build  his  house; 
but  before  it  was  completed,  he  was  attacked  with  the 
deadly  fever  of  the  Teraee,  or  belt  of  jungle,  which  skirts 
the  foot  of  the  hills,  and  was  obliged  to  return  in  the 
first  instance  to  Dinagepore,  and  then  to  Serampore. 
There  his  health  was  fully  restored,  and  he  returned  to 
his  station  to  resume  his  labours. 

Dr.  Carey  had  enjoyed  the  blessing  of  vigorous  and 
unbroken  health  for  ten  years,  at  Serampore.  This  was 
serious  uinets  to  t>e  attributed,  under  the  blessing  of  God,  to 
of  Dr.  carey.  j^g  regular  and  temperate  habits,  and  not  less 
to  the  animating  character  of  his  occupations,  which,  as 
he  was  in*  the  habit  of  observing,  left  him  no  leisure  for 
being  ill.  He  rose  early,  and  immediately  proceeded  to 
his  garden,  where  he  generally  passed  an  hour  or  two  in 
walking  about  among  his  plants,  of  which  he  had  made 
the  largest  and  richest  collection  in  any  private  establish- 
ment in  India.  His  garden  was  also  the  scene  of  his 
devotional  meditations ;  and  the  day,  thus  opened  amidst 
the  most  agreeable  and  tranquillising  scenes,  was  filled 
up  with  unremitted  labour  in  the  mission  and  the  trans- 
lations. In  the  month  of  July  in  this  year,  he  completed 
the  publication  of  the  Bengalee  Bible,  and  the  next  day 
was  attacked  with  fever,  which  brought  him  rapidly  to 
the  brink  of  the  grave.  For  several  days,  he  was  in  a 
state  of  delirium,  and  talked  incoherently.  He  was  at- 
tended with  the  kindest  assiduity  by  Dr.  Darling,  the 
surgeon  attached  to  one  of  the  regiments  at  Barrackpore, 
who  entered  the  sick  chamber,  on  his  first  visit,  in  his 
military  uniform.     Dr.  Carey  had  always  been  a  warm 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1809.]  HISTORY  OP  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION,  411 

advocate  of  peace,  and  the  practice  of  war  was  repugnant 
to  his  feelings.  During  the  delirium,  his  mind  wandered 
on  the  subject  which  had  engaged  his  thoughts  in  health, 
and  he  no  sooner  perceived  the  scarlet  coat  of  his  medical 
attendant,  than  he  sprang  from  his  couch  in  a  state  of 
frenzy,  and  asked  how  he  dared  to  appear  in  such  a  dress, 
after  the  Almighty  had  decreed  the  abolition  of  all  war. 
Dr.  Darling  was  obliged  to  retreat,  and  exchange  his 
uniform  for  one  of  Mr.  Marshman's  black  coats,  when  he 
was  allowed  to  feel  the  pulse  of  his  patient,  and  prescribe 
for  him.  The  fever  was  gradually  subdued,  but  it  left 
him  in  a  state  of  great  debility  for  many  weeks.  During 
the  suspension  of  his  labours  in  the  College  of  Fort 
"William,  his  place  was  supplied  by  Mr.  Marshman,  who 
delivered  lectures  to  the  students  in  the  Bengalee  and 
Sanscrit  languages.  Dr.  Carey  was  at  length  restored  to 
health  and  strength,  and  enabled  to  resume  his  duties,  and 
his  missionary  zeal  seemed  to  have  acquired  additional 
vigour  from  this  temporary  interruption  of  labour.  In 
the  first  letter  he  wrote  to  Mr.  Fuller  after  his  recovery, 
on  the  17th  of  August,  after  alluding  to  the  circumstance 
of  his  having  reached  his  forty- eighth  year  on  that  day, 
he  said :  "  The  state  of  the  world  occupies  my  thoughts 
more  and  more,  as  it  respects  the  spread  of  the  Gospel. 
A  mission  to  Siam  would  be  comparatively  easy  of  in- 
troduction and  support,  on  account  of  its  vicinity  to 
Prince  of  Wales'  Island,  from  which  vessels  can  often  go 
in  a  few  hours.  A  mission  to  Pegu,  and  another  to 
Aracan,  would  not  be  difficult  of  introduction,  as  they 
are  both  within  the  Burmese  dominions.  Missions  to 
Assam  and  Nepal  should  be  speedily  tried.  I  do  not 
know  anything  of  the  facilities  with  which  missions  could 
be  introduced  into  Cochin  China,  Cambodia,  and  Laos, 
but  were  the  trial  made,  I  believe  difficulties  would 
vanish.  It  is  also  very  desirable  that  the  Burmese  Mis- 
sion should  be  strengthened  ;  there  is  full  liberty  of 
conscience  there,  and  several  stations  ought  to  be  occupied. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


412  HISTORY  OP  THE  SBBAMPORE  MISSION.      [Coaf.  VT1L 

Even  the  borders  of  China  could  be  reached  from  that 
country,  if  an  entrance  could  not  be  obtained  to  the  heart 
of  it.  I  have  not  mentioned  Sumatra,  Java,  the  Moluccas, 
or  the  Philippines,  but  all  these  countries  must  be  oc- 
cupied with  missionaries."  In  enumerating  the  places 
to  which  missions  could  be  sent,  he  significantly 
omitted  all  notice  of  the  British  dominions  in  India, 
which  were  then,  to  all  appearance,  hermetically  sealed 
against  the  enterprise. 

It  has  been  stated  that  the  mission  to  Burmah  was 
commenced  at  the  beginning  of  1808.  The  town  of 
Miukmto  Rangoon,  which  had  gradually  become  the 
Rangoon.  emporium  of  commerce  in  the  valley  of  the 
Irawaddy,  was  selected  as  the  most  convenient  position 
for  the  first  missionary  station ;  and  Mr.  Chater,  and  sub- 
sequently Mr.  Felix  Carey,  had  erected  a  house  there, 
and  entered  on  their  work  with  much  animation.  Mr. 
Chater  was  a  very  fair  linguist  and  very  conciliatory  in 
his  manners.  Mr.  Felix  Carey  possessed  much  of  his 
father's  aptitude  for  the  acquisition  of  languages,  and 
looked  forward  with  delight  to  the  cultivation  of  the 
Burmese  language  and  literature  and  the  translation  of 
the  Scriptures.  It  was  a  new  and  untrodden  field  of 
labour,  well  suited  to  his  enterprising  spirit.  He  was 
master  of  the  Sanscrit  language,  and  familiar  with  the 
principles  of  Oriental  philology.  He  had  also  applied  with 
success  to  the  study  of  medicine,  and  walked  the  hospitals 
of  Calcutta  for  several  years.  He  was  twenty-two  years 
of  age  when  he  entered  on  the  Undertaking,  for  which  he 
had  been  well  trained  in  the  school  of  Serampore.  He 
had  not  been  long  at  Rangoon  before  he  found  ample 
scope  for  his  medical  skill,  and  was  thus  enabled  to  obtain 
favourable  access  to  the  heathen.  He  was  the  first  to  j 
introduce  the  blessing  of  vaccination  into  the  country, 
and  was  so  happy  as  to  obtain  permission,  at  the  outset 
of  his  career,  to  operate  on  the  child  of  the  governor. 
He  soon  discovered,  to  his  delight,  that  the  learned  Ian- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1809 J,  HISTORY  OF  THE   SERAMPORE  MISSION.  413 

guage  of  the  country,  the  Pali,  the  parent  of  the  verna- 
cular tongue,  was  a  variety  of  the  Sanscrit,  adapted  to 
the  monosyllabic  language  of  Burmah.  His  literary  pro- 
gress was  thus  facilitated,  and  he  was  enabled,  with  the 
aid  of  a  pundit,  to  compile  a  grammar  of  the  Burmese 
language,  and  to  make  a  rough  beginning  with  the  trans- 
lation of  the  Scriptures.  The  communication  of  these 
facts  confirmed  Dr.  Carey's  hopes  regarding  the  object 
dearest  to  his  affections,  the  extended  translation  of  the 
Bible  into  the  languages  of  the  East.  In  reference  to  the 
resemblance  of  the  Pali  with  the  Sanscrit,  he  remarks, 
"This  circumstance  will,  I  suspect,  be  of  incalculable 
advantage  to  the  translation  of  the  Scriptures  into  all  the 
languages  spoken  to  the  east  of  Bengal,  the  Chinese  ex- 
cepted, for,  if  I  am  not  mistaken,  the  Pali  is  the  learned 
language  of  Ava,  Aracan,  Pegu,  Siam,  Cambodia,  and  of 
several  other  countries  where  the  religion  of  Buddha 
prevails.  The  Sanscrit  version  of  the  Scriptures  will 
generally  be  understood  by  the  learned  men  whom  it  will 
be  necessary  to  obtain  as  assistants  in  the  work/' 

It  was  during  this  year  that  the  missionaries  at  Seram- 
pore  began  to  carry  out  the  design  of  employing  in  the 
missionary  field  young  men  in  European  habits,  BmpIoyilMmtof 
born  and  educated  in  the  country,  who  were  ^Sd^iTthe 
found  to  possess  ability  and  zeal.  From  the  countr3r' 
commencement  of  their  labours  at  Serampore  they  had 
constantly  kept  in  view  the  necessity  of  domesticating 
Christianity  in  India,  and  providing  for  the  propagation 
of  it  without  exclusive  dependence  on  aid  from  Europe. 
They  determined  to  cultivate  the  resources  presented  in 
the  country  itself,  and  to  bring  into  active  exercise  what- 
ever talent  they  could  discover  among  their  native  converts, 
and  in  the  European  community.  As  Mr.  Ward  happily 
expressed  it,  in  one  of  his  letters,  "  For  the  army  of  labourers 
to  be  employed  in  assaulting  the  bulwarks  of  Hindooism, 
we  ought  to  look  to  England  only  for  a  few  superior  officers. 
The  non-commissioned  officers  and  rank  and  file  we  must 


Digitized  by 


Google 


414  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORB  MISSION.      [Chap.  VHI. 

raise  in  the  country."  This  plan  was  enforced  on  them  by 
the  peculiar  circumstances  of  the  times.  They  had  recently 
been  informed  by  Mr.  Fuller,  on  the  authority  of  Mr. 
Charles  Grant,  that  Lord  Minto  and  his  Council  had 
advifeed  the  Court  of  Directors  to  prevent  any  accession  to 
the  number  of  missionaries  in  India;  and  that  any  attempt 
on  the  part  of  the  Society  to  send  out  missionaries  by  way 
of  America  would  be  resisted  and  resented.  There  was 
little  hope  of  any  relaxation  of  this  hostility  before  the 
renewal  of  the  charter  in  1813,  and  it  ill  accorded  with 
the  ardour  of  their  minds  to  wait  for  additional  labourers 
till  that  period,  with  the  chance  of  disappointment  when 
it  came.  They  determined,  therefore,  at  once  to  employ 
those  who  might  turn  up  in  the  country  itself.  These  men 
might  not  possess  the  energy  of  the  European  character; 
but  this  defect  was,  in  some  measure,  compensated  by  their 
thorough  knowledge  of  the  habits  and  feelings  of  the 
people,  and  their  familiarity  with  the  vernacular  tongue. 
More  particularly,  these  indigenous  missionaries  were  not 
liable  to  be  deported  from  the  country  for  want  of  a 
license,  and  they  could  travel  about  without  a  passport. 
During  the  preceding  two  or  three  years  the  labours  of 
the  missionaries  in  Calcutta  had  drawn  around  them  a 
MiMionarte.  Air.  siaall  body  of  men,  of  East  Indian,  Portuguese, 
Jh'uiShS  £5-  and  Armenian  extraction,  who  manifested  much 
mtt&"  zeal  after  their  conversion,  and  were  encouraged 

to  labour  from  house  to  house  wherever  they  could  obtain 
access.  A  meeting  was  held  every  evening  in  the  week 
at  the  residence  of  some  of  those  who  had  shown  a  desire 
to  listen  to  the  Gospel,  and  the  younger  members  of  the 
church  were  thus  trained  to  the  exercise  of  their  natural 
gifts.  Two  men  of  this  class  were  this  year  selected  for 
missionary  work,  Mr.Carapiet  Aratoon  and  Mr.  John  Peter. 
The  former  was  an  Armenian  by  birth,  thoroughly  ac- 
quainted with  the  Bengalee  and  Hindoostanee,  and  well 
versed  in  Scripture  doctrine.  He  possessed  great  gentleness 
of  disposition,  a  winning  manner,  and  not  a  little  of  that 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1809.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORB  MISSION.  415 

quiet  and  persevering  spirit  of  enterprise  which  had  raised 
so  many  of  his  countrymen  to  posts  of  political  import* 
ance  at  the  native  Courts,  before  all  power  in  India  was 
absorbed  by  the  English.  Mr.  John  Peter  was  also  an 
Armenian,  but  of  native  extraction,  of  a  jet-black  com- 
plexion, ardent  and  zealous,  and  with  an  unrivalled  com* 
mand  of  the  native  tongue,  which  he  spoke  with  a  degree 
of  eloquence  which  riveted  the  attention  of  his  hearers. 
They  both  owed  their  religious  convictions  to  the  minis- 
trations in  Bengalee  in  the  little  chapel  at  Chitpore,  which 
Government  had  recently  closed.  Mr.  Aratoon  was  placed 
in  Jessore,  from  whence  a  considerable  number  of  native 
converts  had  been  received,  and  where  the  native  Christians 
required  more  mature  and  vigorous  superintendence  than 
could  be  expected  from  the  ablest  native  teachers.  In  the 
beginning  of  the  present  year  the  New  Testament  in  the 
Orissa  language  was  completed  at  press,  aijd  Dr.  Carey 
and  his  colleagues  were  anxious  to  circulate  it  in  the 
country  in  which  the  language  was  current.  To  send  a 
missionary  to  the  head-quarters  of  Juggernath  at  Pooree 
might,  it  was  to  be  feared,  revive  the  smothered  embers  of 
opposition  in  the  Council-chamber,  and  it  was  resolved  to 
plant  Mr.  Peter  on  the  border  of  the  district  at  Balasore. 
He  and  Mr.  Aratoon  were  ordained  missionaries  to  the 
heathen  in  October  of  the  present  year,  and  sent  immedi- 
ately after  to  their  stations,  Mr.  Aratoon  on  forty  rupees 
a  month,  and  Mr.  Peter,  in  consideration  of  his  having  an 
aged  father  and  invalid  brother,  as  well  as  a  wife  and  three 
children,  to  support,  on  seventy  rupees. 

While  the  missionaries  at  Serampore  were  thus  employed 
in  preparing  the  Sacred  Scriptures  for  the  natives  of  Orissa, 
the  Government  of  India  was  engaged  in  com-  CoBnectfaIlaf 
pleting  the   connection   of  the  State  with  its  ^iXEEJ!"* 
great    idolatrous  shrine.      The  alliance  thus  Juggernatb* 
formed  between  a  Christian  Government  and  that  heathen 
establishment  affords  the  most  pregnant  illustration  of 
those  "  brahminised  feelings "  which,   during  the  first 


Digitized  by 


Google 


416  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  VTIL 

fifty  years  of  our  Indian  empire,  pervaded  and  debased 
the  minds  of  the  British  functionaries  in  India.  After 
the  establishment  of  our  power  in  Orissa,  the  Government 
was  anxious  to  strengthen  itself  by  the  popularity  which 
might  be  expected  from  the  official  patronage  of  the  great 
Diana  of  India,  and  to  enrich  its  treasury  by  a  tax  ou  pil- 
grims. In  a  former  chapter,  the  progress  of  this  design, 
and  the  resistance  it  encountered  in  the  Court  of  Directors, 
have  been  already  narrated.  The  question  was  again 
brought  before  them  in  1808,  when  they  determined  to 
send  another  exposition  of  their  views  on  this  subject  to 
Bengal.  In  the  despatch  drafted  under  their  direction 
they  unequivocally  condemned  this  alliance,  and  prohibited 
the  Government  to  nominate  the  priests,  or  to  undertake 
the  management  of  the  funds,  or  to  exercise  any  kind  of 
control  over  the  ministrations  at  the  temple.  They 
directed  that  the  interference  of  the  public  officers  should 
be  confined  to  objects  within  the  province  of  the  magis- 
trate, such  as  the  control  of  the  police,  and  the  preserva- 
tion of  the  public  peace ;  and  that  whatever  assessments 
might  be  levied,  should  be  strictly  limited  to  the  sum  ne- 
cessary for  these  objects.  They  directed  that  the  Hindoos 
should  not  be  subjected  to  any  tax  for  access  to  their 
place  of  devotion,  or  under  the  notion  of  granting  them  a 
religious  privilege ;  and  that  there  should  be  no  toleration 
of  idolatry  for  any  money  consideration.  These  sentiments 
derive  additional  value  from  the  fact  that  they  were  enun- 
ciated at  a  time  when  the  anti-missionary  feelings  of  the 
Directors  were  in  full  vigour,  if  it  had  been  permitted  to 
them  to  carry  out  these  views,  the  Government  of  India 
would  have  been  spared  the  obloquy  of  this  unhallowed 
connection,  instead  of  being  constrained  for  nearly  half  a 
century  to  maintain  a  struggle  with  public  indignation  at 
home.  They  would  not  have  been  placed  in  a  false  and 
damaging  position,  with  all  the  noblest  sympathies  of  our 
nature,  and  the  strength  of  Christian  principle  arrayed 
against  them. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1809.]  HISTORY   OF   THE   SERAMPORE   MISSION.  417 

But  the  wishes  of  the  Court  of  Directors  were  over- 
ruled by  the  Board  of  Control,  who  determined  to  confirm 
the  arrangements  which  had  been  made  by  the  jUggenuth  con- 
Supreme  Council  in  Calcutta.  The  despatch  of  Unued* 
the  Court  was  superseded  by  another  drawn  up  in  the 
Board's  Office,  which  laid  down  the  doctrine  that  as  the 
pilgrim  tax  had  been  established  during  the  administration 
of  the  Mahomedans  and  the  Mahrattas,  there  did  not 
appear  any  valid  objection  to  its  continuance  under 
the  British  Government.  This  despatch,  so  diametrically 
opposed  to  the  sentiments  of  the  Court  of  Directors,  they 
were  obliged  to  sign  and  transmit  to  Calcutta,  as  their  own 
act  and  deed.  But  before  this  despatch  could  reach  India, 
the  Supreme  Council  had  passed  the  regulation  of  1809, 
which  modified  in  some  degree  the  interference  which  had 
been  previously  exercised  in  the  affairs  of  the  temple,  and 
substituted  the  authority  of  the  Raja  of  Khoorda  for  that 
of  the  Bengal  Government.  But  that  regulation  left  too 
many  of  the  links  of  the  connection  which  it  professed  to 
sever.  Guards  were  provided  to  protect  the  interests  of 
the  temple  ;  its  high  priests  were  appointed  by  the  officers  of 
our  Government,  and  were  not  removable  without  the  sanc- 
tion of  the  Supreme  Council,  and  the  broad  cloth  required 
for  the  decoration  of  the  cars  was  supplied  from  the  stores 
of  Government.  An  account  of  all  offerings  and  gifts  was 
rendered  to  the  collector,  who  was  still  mixed  up  with  the 
regulation  of  the  affairs  of  the  temple,  and  the  conduct  of 
its  ceremonies.  The  tax  was  collected  by  British  officers, 
and  the  pilgrim-hunters  received  head-money  in  proportion 
to  the  number,  of  votaries  they  could  allure  to  the  shrine, 
and  they  travelled  through  the  length  and,  breadth  of  the 
land,  proclaiming  that  they  were  acting  under  the  autho- 
rity of  the  British  Government,  whose  servants  they  were, 
and  who  shared  in  the  gains  of  the  temple.  There  is, 
perhaps,  no  single  measure  which  has  entailed  more  intense 
odium  on  the  East  India  Company  throughout  Christen- 

VOL.  I.  E  E 


Digitized  by 


Google 


418  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  VHI. 

dom  than  this  alliance  of  a  Christian  Government  with  an 
idolatrous  shrine  from  unhallowed  and  mercenary  motives. 
But  it  is  little  known  that  the  proposal,  when  first  made, 
was  indignantly  rejected  by  Lord  Wellesley ;  that  on  his  re- 
tirement from  India,  the  connection  was  established  by  Sir 
George  Barlow,  the  great  champion  of  traditionary  policy, 
who  stated  that  he  considered  Juggernath  in  the  light  of  a 
"religious  corporation"  entitled  to  the  patronage  of  Govern- 
ment,  like  all  the  other  religious  establishments  it  was  then 
fostering ;  that  this  alliance  was  repudiated  and  resisted  by 
the  Court  of  Directors,  and  supported  and  enforced  by  the 
Board  of  Control. 

It  has  been  already  stated  that,  when  the  Serampore 
Missionaries  felt  themselves  constrained  to  withdraw 
Remodemng  or  fr°m  the  corresponding  committee  of  the  Bible 
togSmXwof  Society  in  Calcutta,  in  consequence  of  Mr. 
tbeBlb,eSocie*-  .Buchanan's  proceedings,  Mr.  Brown  nominated 
four  of  the  chaplains,  together  with  Mr.  Forsyth,  of  the 
London  Missionary  Society,  and  Mr.  Harington,  to  act 
with  himself  and  Mr.  Udny.  But  this  arrangement 
did  not  meet  with  the  concurrence  of  the  parent  society 
in  London.  They  repudiated  Mr.  Buchanan's  plan  of  the 
Christian  Institution,  for  which  he  had  asked  of  the  Society 
10,000Z.  a  year  for  four  years,  "  with  which  to  evangelise 
all  India,"  and  they  regretted  the  interruption  which  his 
plans  had  occasioned.  Lord  Teignmouth,  the  president, 
consulted  Mr.  Fuller  on  the  subject,  who  stated  that  his 
friends  in  India  would  prefer  to  receive  any  aid  which 
the  Bible  Society  might  be  so  generous  as  to  give,  imme- 
diately from  the  committee  in  London ;  but  the  leading 
members  of  the  Bible  Society  deemed  it  more  advisable, 
if  possible,  to  revive  their  original  resolution,  and  place 
Churchmen  and  Dissenters  in  equal  proportions  on  the 
committee  in  Calcutta.  With  this  view  it  was  resolved 
that  the  corresponding  committee  should  consist  of  the 
original  members,  Mr.  Brown,  Mr.  Udny,  the  three  Seram- 
pore missionaries,  and   Mr.  Thorn ason,  in  lieu   of   Mr. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1809.]  HISTORY   OF  THE   SERAMPORE  MISSION.  419 

Buchanan,  and  that  all  drafts  on  the  Society  should  bear 
the  signature  of  four  of  their  number.  Mr.  Fuller,  who 
had  been  requested  to  attend  the  meeting  of  the  com- 
mittee, was  asked  whether  he  thought  such  a  plan  any 
longer  feasible,  and  he  replied  that  the  missionaries  felt 
keenly  the  treatment  they  had  experienced,  but  that,  for 
his  part,  he  would  use  every  effort  to  induce  them  to 
accede  to  the  proposal.  Lord  Teignmouth  also  said  that 
he  would  request  his  friend,  Mr.  Udny,  to  act  as  a 
mediator  between  Mr.  Brown  and  the  missionaries.  Mr. 
Fuller  assured  the  committee  that  he  was  persuaded  they 
would  sacrifice  everything  for  peace  and  honourable  co- 
operation, short  of  truth  and  a  good  conscience.  When 
these  communications  reached  Serampore,  Dr.  Carey  and 
his  colleagues  determined  to  bury  the  past  in  oblivion, 
and  meet  the  wishes  of  the  society  by  a  cordial  co-opera- 
tion with  the  other  members  of  the  committee. 

At  the  close  of  1809,  the  Serampore  missionaries  sent 
the  Society  a  report  of  the  progress  of  the  translations, 
and  it  presents  an  example  of  that  ardent  spirit 
of  exertion  in  which  great  undertakings  are  progrewouhe 

O  .  °  translation*. 

achieved.  They  state  that  after  sixteen  years 
of  exertion  —  dating  from  the  time  when  Dr.  Carey  began 
his  labours  at  Mudnabatty — the  whole  Bible  had  been 
printed  off  in  the  Bengalee  language  in  five  volumes,  as 
well  as  a  third  and  improved  edition  of  the  New  Testa- 
ment. They  had  completed  the  printing  of  the  New 
Testament  and  the  Psalms  in  Ooriya.  The  Sanscrit 
Testament  had  been  finished  at  press,  and  the  Pentateuch 
began.  They  had  also  prepared  the  first  rough  translation 
of  the  New  Testament  in  the  Telinga  and  the  Punjabee. 
The  printing  of  the  Goozeratee  and  Mahratta  revisions 
had  been  suspended  for  want  of  funds.  From  an  early 
period  they  had  been  employed  in  a  revision  of  the  Scrip* 
tures  for  the  inhabitants  of  Hindoostan  proper,  and  had 
printed  an  edition  of  single  Gospels.  This  revision  was 
in  the  language  then  designated  the  Hindoostanee,  affiliated 

X  E   2 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


420  HISTORY  OF  THE   SERAMPORE   MISSION.       [Chap.  THL 

in  its  structure  and  vocables  with  the  Sanscrit;   it  was 
intended  for  the  Hindoo  population,  and  was  printed  in 
the  Deva  Nagree  character.     The  Hindee  of  that  period, 
now  called  the  Oordoo,  which  is  a  popular  modification  of 
the  Persian,  used  by  the  Mahoraedan  conquerors  of  India 
and  their  descendants,  and  written  in  the  Persian  cha- 
racter, had   been   transferred  to  Mr.  Martyn;   and   the 
Serarapore  Missionaries  therefore  intermitted  their  labours 
for  the  provinces  of  the  north-west.     But  Mr.  Martyn 
soon   found  that  the  language  of  seven-eighths  of  the 
people  —  the  remaining  eighth  being  Mahomedans  —  was 
identical  with  that  which  his  friends  at  Serampore  had 
been  cultivating,  and  he  encouraged  them  to  resume  their 
labours,  by  the  assurance  that  they  "  would  be  useful  to 
thousands."     The  report  further  stated  that  Mr.  Chater 
and  Mr.  Felix  Carey  were  preparing  themselves  for  the 
translation  of  the  Scriptures  into  the  Burmese  language, 
and  Mr.  Robinson  into  that  of  Boo  tan.     In  reference  to 
Mr.  Marshman's  labours,  it  was  stated  that  he  had  retained 
a  learned  Chinese  to  assist  in  revising  the  translation, 
which  was  written  out  in  the  first  instance  by  Mr.  Lassar, 
and  then  compared  by  him  with  the  original.     A  fair 
copy  was   then   made  by   the   Chinese   Moonshee,    who 
revised   it  carefully,   with  a  view  to  the   correction  of 
idiomatic  inaccuracies ;  after  which  he  and  Mr.  Marshman 
went  over  it  again  very  laboriously,  to  secure  the  greatest 
degree  of  accuracy.     After  these  successive  revisions  a 
fair  copy  was  made  for  the   engravers.     The  progress 
which  had  been  made  in  the  preparation  of  founts  of 
types  in  the  Oriental  languages  was  also  very  satisfactory. 
In  the  middle  of  1807,  the  missonaries  had  completed  four 
founts,  which,  with  the  Persian  fount  received  from  Eng- 
land, enabled  them  to  print  the  Scriptures  in  seven  lan- 
guages.    On  the  ground  of  economy  alone,  the  importance 
of  the  foundry  they  had  established  at  Serampore  will  be 
apparent  from  a  reference  to  the  expense  of  Oriental 
founts  in  London ;  and  at  this  distance  of  time  it  may  not 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1809.]  HISTORY   OF  THE   SERAMPOBE  MISSION.  421 

be  without  interest.  The  Persian  fount,  which  Mr.  Fuller 
had  sent  out,  cost  500/.  The  missionaries  had  also  desired 
him  to  ascertain  whether  Telinga  and  Nagree  founts 
might  not  be  obtained  more  cheaply  and  expeditiously  in 
London,  where  Fry  and  Figgins,  the  eminent  founders, 
had  been  employed  in  preparing  Oriental  punches  for  the 
East  India  Company.  Their  reply  satisfied  the  mis- 
sionaries of  the  wisdom  of  having  made  the  establishment 
of  a  foundry  and  the  training  of  native  artists  one  of  the 
first  objects  of  their  attention  at  Serampore.  Mr.  Figgins 
offered  to  supply  them  with  407  matrices  for  the 
Telinga,  he. retaining  the  punches,  for  641Z.  Regarding 
the  Nagree,  a  consultation  was  held  with  Dr.  Charles 
Wilkins,  the  great  Orientalist,  who  had  cut  the  first 
Indian  types  with  his  own  hands  thirty  years  before,  and 
it  was  found  that  the  punches  required  for  printing  in 
that  character  might,  by  various  contrivances,  be  reduced 
to  300 ;  but  the  expense  of  preparing  even  this  contracted 
fount  was  estimated  at  700Z.  At  Serampore  the  mis- 
sionaries had  been  able  to  obtain  from  their  native 
workmen  a  complete  fount  of  Nagree,  consisting  of  700 
characters,  for  about  100/.  In  the  course  of  the  first 
ten  years  of  their  labours  the  difference  between  the 
expense  of  their  own  foundry,  and  the  sum  which  would 
have  been  required  for  the  preparation  of  the  founts  in 
London,  fell  little  short  of  2000/. 

Ten  years  had  now  elapsed  since  the  establishment  of 
the  mission  at  Serampore,  and  a  general  review  of  the 
progress  which  had  been  made  during  this  Teny«irf  report 
period  was  drawn  up  by  Mr.  Ward,  at  the  oflhemiMlon- 
request  of  his  brethren,  in  December  of  the  present  year. 
Amidst  all  the  opposition  of  Government  they  had  suc- 
ceeded in  settling  four  stations  in  Bengal ;  they  had  sent 
a  missionary  to  Patna,  and  planted  stations  on  the  borders 
of  Orissa  and  Bootan,  and  in  Burrnah ;  the  number  of 
members  in  church  fellowship  exceeded  two  hundred ;  they 
had  obtained  a  footing  in  Calcutta,  where  a  chapel  had  been 

B  B    3 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


422  HISTORY  OF  THE   SERAMPOBE   MISSION.      [Chap.  VIII. 

erected  at  a  cost  of  more  than  3000?.,  and  a  large  church  and 
congregation  collected ;  the  Scriptures  had  been  printed, 
in  whole  or  in  part,  in  six  languages,  and  translations 
had  been  commenced  in  six  others.  "  And  now,  dear 
brethren,"  concludes  the  Report,  "  has  not  God  completely 
refuted  the  notion  that  all  attempts  to  disseminate  the 
Gospel  among  the  heathen  are  vain  ?  This  happy  degree 
of  success,  which  surprises  us  who  are  on  the  spot,  has 
been  granted  within  the  space  of  about  nine  years ;  for  it 
is  no  more  since  the  baptism  of  the  first  Hindoo."  So 
great  had  been  their  exertions  as  almost  to  cast  into  the 
shade  the  agency  of  the  Society  in  England.  But  they 
felt  that  they  could  not  sufficiently  appreciate  the  value 
of  Mr.  Fuller's  co-operation.  He  was  the  life  and  soul, 
the  grace  and  ornament  of  the  mission  in  England ; 
it  was  his  indefatigable  zeal  which  kept  alive  the  in- 
terest of  the  public  in  the  cause;  it  was  his  powerful 
intellect  and  undaunted  spirit  which  baffled  all  opposi- 
tion, and  his  judicious  and  affectionate  counsels  which 
diffused  animation  through  the  whole  system;  and  the 
reciprocal  confidence  which  he  and  the  missionaries  re- 
posed in  each  other  was  almost  unlimited.  Hence,  in 
concluding  the  Report,  Mr.  Ward  remarks,  "  I  hope  the 
Report  I  have  drawn  up  will  afford  you  and  the  other 
brethren  who  have  borne  the  heat  and  burden  of  the  day 
a  degree  of  real  comfort.  God  has  done  great  things,  not 
only  by  us,  but  through  you.  We  can  never  separate 
ourselves  from  you  for  a  moment  in  thinking  what  God 
has  done  for  the  Baptist  mission  in  India." 

The  labours  of  Dr.  Carey  and  his  colleagues  in  Calcutta 

had  brought  under  their  notice  the  state  of  ignorance 

and  vice    in    which    hundreds    of   Christian 

Establishment  of       -  ..  ,  .  ._,.  . 

iMtSmSTlent  children  were  growing  up.  They  were  the  re- 
mote descendants  of  European  fathers  and 
native  mothers,  and  in  each  successive  generation  had  de- 
generated still  deeper  into  native  associations.  They  were 
chiefly  of  Portuguese  extraction,  but  though  Roman 
Catholics  by  birth,  were  heathen  in  all  but   the  name. 


Digitized  by* 


ioogle 


1810.]  HISTORY   OF  THE   SERAMPORE  MISSION.  423 

They  were  equally  ignorant  of  Portuguese  and  Latin,  and 
derived  no  beneficial  influence  from  the  services  of  their 
church.  They  were  in  the  lowest  stage  of  social  depression 
and  poverty,  having  often  a  family,  five  or  six  in  number, 
to  support  on  three  shillings  a  week.  Neither  was  there 
any  of  that  stimulus  of  honourable  ambition  to  be  found 
among  them,  which  led  their  Hindoo  and  Mahomedan 
neighbours  to  exertion  and  fortune.  They  reflected  nothing 
but  disgrace  on  the  Christian  name,  and  were  regarded  by 
the  heathen  around  them  with  supreme  contempt.  The 
only  institution  which  existed  in  Calcutta  for  the  benefit 
of  this  class  was  the  Free  School.  In  the  year  1729, 
the  Company's  servants  and  the  adventurers  in  Calcutta 
set  on  foot  a  charity  school,  to  "  educate  poor  European 
children  in  the  Protestant  religion."  They  raised  about 
24G0J.,  which  was  paid  into  the  Treasury,  and  for  which 
Government  paid  interest.  The  Court  of  Directors  pro- 
nounced it  "  a  laudable  undertaking,  and  wished  the  pro- 
jectors good  success."  At  the  same  time,  Mr.  Bourchier, 
the  Master- Attendant,  a  man  of  great  benevolence,  erected 
a  court-house  for  the  mayor's  court,  which  had  been  esta- 
blished the  previous  year  in  Calcutta  by  royal  charter,  and 
made  it  over  to  Government  on  condition  that  the  rent, 
400J.  a  year,  should  be  paid  to  the  new  charitable  institu- 
tion. On  the  sack  of  Calcutta  in  1756,  the  school  was 
broken  up,  but  the  bonds  of  the  original  subscription 
were  renewed  on  the  restoration  of  British  authority,  and 
the  school  opened  again.  The  court-house  was  soon  after 
enlarged  at  the  expense  of  the  inhabitants,  and  the 
Government  agreed  to  double  the  rent.  But  the  European 
community  was  now  inordinately  absorbed  in  the  pursuit 
of  gain,  which  swallowed  up  every  other  feeling,  and  the 
educational  as  well  as  the  religious  wants  of  the  town 
were  never  thought  of.  As  no  one  took  the  slightest  in- 
terest in  the  school,  it  degenerated  into  a  job,  and  with  an 
income  of  1200Z.  a  year  afforded  education  only  to  twenty 
scholars.     It  was  not  till  thirty  years  after  the  battle  of 

B  8    4 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


424'  HISTORY   OF   THE   SERAMPORE   MISSION.      [Chap.  VIII. 

Plassey  that  any  attempt  was  made  to  correct  this  neglect. 
Under  the  auspices  of  Lord  Cornwallis,  a  successful  effort 
was  made  in  1787  to  organise  an  efficient  institution  for 
the  benefit  of  the  humbler  class  of  Christians.  The 
old  charity  school  was  remodelled,  under  the  denomination 
of  the  Free  School,  and  the  income  was  raised  to  4000/.  a 
year.  After  having  been  twenty  years  in  full  operation, 
it  was  still  found  to  be  inadequate  to  the  wants  of  the  town. 
The  Free  School  gave  instruction  only  to  those  whom  it 
was  able  to  board.  Beyond  its  walls,  therefore,  there  was 
a  large  body  of  destitute  children  growing  up  in  every 
vice,  and  it  was  for  their  benefit  that  the  Serampore  mis- 
sionaries now  undertook  to  provide  the  means  of  instruc- 
tion. Mr.  Marshman  took  the  lead  in  this  undertaking, 
and  the  "  Benevolent  Institution,"  as  the  school  was  de- 
signated, owes  its  rise  and  prosperity  chiefly  to  his  exer- 
tions. He  preached  a  sermon  on  Christmas-day  at  the 
Bow  Bazar  Chapel,  in  which  he  advocated  the  claims  of 
these  neglected  children,  who  infested  the  streets  and  lanes 
of  Calcutta,  after  which  a  collection  was  made  of  the 
amount  of  30/.,  a  small  sum  compared  with  the  magnitude 
of  the  undertaking.  But  the  missionaries  immediately 
engaged  a  house  in  the  heart  of  the  town,  in  the  centre  of 
the  Portuguese  population,  and  opened  the  school  under 
the  superintendence  of  Mr.  Peacock.  He  was  the  son  of  a 
clergyman  in  England,  and  had  been  trained  to  the  work 
of  tuition  in  the  military  orphan  establishment  at  Kidder- 
pore,  but  was  obliged  to  leave  it  on  joining  the  Baptist 
community.  The  first  notice  of  the  institution  which 
was  published,  stated  that  it  was  designed  in  the  first 
instance,  to  impart  a  knowledge  of  reading,  writing  and 
arithmetic  to  the  pupils,  and  that  the  circle  of  instruction 
would  be  enlarged  with  its  growth.  One  of  its  chief  ob- 
jects was  to  instil  the  principles  of  Christian  truth  and 
morals  into  the  minds  of  the  children,  and  bring  them 
under  the  humanising  influences  of  the  Gospel.  It  was  not 
intended  to  enforce  any  particular  creed  on  them,  but  the 
Scriptures  were  to  be  daily  read  and  expounded.     Neither 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


1810.]  HISTORY   OF  THE   8ERAMP0RB   MISSION.  425 

were  they  to  be  required  to  attend  Protestant  worship 
on  the  Sunday,  and  the  Roman  Catholic  children  had 
full  liberty  to  accompany  their  friends  to  their  own 
chapels. 

The  number  of  scholars  in  the  first  month  amounted  to 
between  thirty  and  forty.     Encouraged  by  this  appearance 
of  success,  Mr.  Marshman  drew  up  a  prospectus 
of  the  institution,  and  consulted  Dr.  Leyden  on  jeSRCI  of  the 

7  ....  J  Institution. 

the  propriety  of  sending  it  into   circulation. 
He   entered   very  warmly  into   the  plan,   and    assured 
Mr.  Marshman  that  it  would  receive  every  encouragement 
from  Lord  Minto,  and  thus  obtain  a  passport  to  public  pa- 
tronage.     Lord   Minto   was   at  the    time    absent   from 
Calcutta.     He  had  been  obliged  to  proceed  in  person  to 
Madras  to  quell  the  mutiny  — far  more  formidable  than  that 
of  Vellore  —  which  had  broken  out  among  the  European 
officers  of  the  Company's  array,  in  consequence  of  the 
mismanagement  of  Sir  George  Barlow,  for  which  he  was 
deposed  from  his  government.    Mr.  Marshman  was  induced 
by  this  advice  to  postpone  the  issue  of  the  prospectus,  but 
it  was  privately  handed  about  among  the  friends  of  religion, 
from  whom  a  liberal  subscription  was  obtained.     But  the 
great  difficulty  which  the  missionaries  experienced  was  in  the 
organisation  of  a  committee  of  management,  which  should 
carry  weight  with  the  public,  and  yet  leave  them  unfettered 
in  the  prosecution  of  those  Evangelical  views  with  which 
the  school  had  been  established.     This  embarrassment  is 
thus  explained  to  Mr.  Fuller  in  a  letter  from  Mr.  Marsh- 
man :  "  No  one  in  our  congregation  was  high  enough  in 
station.     The  Civil  servants  are  the  nobility  and  gentry  of 
our  circle  here,  and,  although  by  a  strange  concurrence  of 
circumstances,  we  are  free  of  all  company,  and  can  break- 
fast with  a  number  of  Bengalee  converts,  and  then  dine 
with  the  highest  in  the  service,  and  even  at  the  Governor- 
General's  table,  this  is  not  the  case  with  the  members  of 
our  congregation  ;  scarcely  is  the  most  opulent  tradesman 
ever  permitted  to  dine  with  a  Civil  servant."     Mr.  Brown, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


426  HISTOBY   OF  THE   SEBAMPOBE  MISSION.      [Chap.  VIIL 

with  all  his  zeal  for  missions  and  translations,  regarded 
every  educational  effort  with  contempt.  Mr.  Thomason, 
the  chaplain  at  the  old  church  and  a  firm  friend  of  the 
missionaries,  offered  to  assist  the  institution  in  any  mode 
except  by  taking  a  seat  in  the  committee.  The  mission- 
aries were  thus  constrained  by  the  exigency  of  circum- 
stances to  stand  forth  as  its  self-constituted  managers,  and 
take  on  themselves  the  sole  responsibility  of  the  faithful 
application  of  the  funds.  It  was  a  novel  and  anomalous 
position,  but  there  was  no  alternative  except  to  abandon 
the  design  of  the  institution  altogether.  At  a  subsequent 
period,  this  procedure  became  a  prominent  article  of  accu- 
sation against  them ;  but  neither  on  this,  nor  on  any  future 
occasion,  when  they  were  obliged  to  pursue  the  same 
course,  had  they  any  cause  to  regret  that  they  had  thus 
thrown  themselves  on  the  confidence  of  the  public  In  the 
month  of  March  of  this  year,  Mr.  Owen  Leonard,  who  had 
served  in  the  ranks  and  in  the  trenches  at  the  capture  of 
Seringapatam,  was  appointed  the  assistant-teacher  in  the 
Benevolent  Institution,  and  to  him  the  exclusive  manage- 
ment was  soon  after  transferred.  The  singular  popularity 
which  it  acquired  during  the  first  year  of  its  existence, 
among  the  parents  of  the  children,  was  to  be  ascribed  in 
a  great  measure  to  Mr.  Leonard's  tact  and  energy,  which 
even  his  warm  Irish  temperament  and  military  sternness 
did  not  neutralise. 

Although  the  direct  hostility  of  Government  to  the 
missionary  enterprise  had  been  considerably  mitigated,  the 
influence  of  the  missionaries  were  frequently  reminded  of  the 
fflSSnmlrtio  effect  produced  on  the  minds  of  the  natives 
M,MW  and  the  public  officers  of  the  state,  by  the 

knowledge  that  missions  were  obnoxious  to  official  men  in 
England  and  in  India.  Two  examples,  promiscuously 
chosen,  will  be  sufficient  to  explain  the  nature  and  effects 
of  this  feeling.  Mr.  Chamberlain  had  visited  the  military 
cantonment  of  Berhampore,  thirty  miles  above  his  station 
at  Cutwa,  to  preach  to  the  European  soldiers  quartered  there. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1810.]  HISTORY   OF   THE   SERAMPORE   MISSION*  427 

The  commandant  of  the  station,  hearing  of  these  services! 
sent  to  him  to  inquire  officially  whether  he  had  the  autho* 
rity  of  the  Governor- General  for  "  migrating  at  his  own 
discretion  within  the  Company's  jurisdiction. "   Mr.  Cham- 
berlain  replied  that,  though  he  possessed  no  license,  it  was 
generally  understood  that  the  missionaries  had  the  tacit 
permission  of  Government  to   reside  in  the  provinces, 
as  long  as  they  demeaned  themselves  with  propriety.     The 
general  replied  that,  according  to  his  information,   the 
Government,  so  far  from  "  permitting  the  migration  of  the 
Baptist  missionaries,  had  restricted  their  residence  to  the 
town  of  Serampore,"  and  Mr.  Chamberlain  was  accordingly 
required  to  remove  from  the  station  as  quickly  as  possible. 
On   another  occasion,   a  young  man,  the  nephew  of  a 
wealthy  native   in   Calcutta,   had   visited    the  itinerant 
Krishnu,  and  not  only  announced  his  determination  to 
embrace  Christianity,  but  thrown  up  his  caste  by  eating 
with  the  Christians.   An  attempt  was  made  by  his  relatives 
to  seize  him  in  the  streets  of  Calcutta,  but  Mr.  Ward 
conveyed  him  safely  to  Serampore,  and  lodged  him  in  the 
mission-house.     When  the  fact  became  known,  a  mob  of 
Hindoos  collected  before  the  magistrate's  gate,  with  some 
of  the  most  influential  and  opulent  natives  at  their  head. 
They  demanded  the  immediate  surrender  of  the  youth, 
reminding  the  magistrate  of  the  orders  which  Sir  George 
Barlow,  as  Governor-General,  had  issued  against  the  mission- 
aries.    One  of  the  most  respectable  of  the  crowd  likewise 
placed  in  his  hands  a  copy  of  the  most  virulent  of  the 
pamphlets  published  by  Major  Scott  Waring  against  the 
missionaries.     It  was  discovered,  on  inquiry,  that  several 
hundred  copies  of  these  anti-missionary  tracts  had  been 
sent  out  to  India,  and  widely  and  gratuitously  distributed 
throughout  the   country   among  the  natives   who  were 
acquainted  with  English,  in  the  hope  of  inflaming  their 
minds  against  the  Serampore  missionaries.   The  magistrate 
endeavoured,  and  not  without  success,  to  calm  their  excited 
feelings,  and  the  mob  gradually  dispersed.     The  youth  re- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


428  HISTORY   OF  THE   SEJIAMPORE  MISSION.       TChap.  VIE. 

turned  the  same  evening  to  Calcutta,  and  the  local  irritation 
rapidly  subsided. 

Such  occurrences  as  these  served,  from  time  to  time,  to 
show  the  missionaries  how  powerfully  the  undisguised  hos- 
tility of  Government  to  the  mission  told  against 
cunjrinGo-     them  in  the  sphere  of  their  labours,  and  it  was 
with  no  little  satisfaction  they  perceived  9ome 
indications  of  a  more  favourable  feeling  on  this  subject 
This  was  to  be  attributed,  in  some  measure,  to  the  censure 
on  Lord  Minto's  harsh  and  hasty  proceedings  against  the 
missionaries,  which  had  been  delicately  but  unequivocally 
conveyed  in  the  Court's  reply,  to  which  reference  has  already 
been  made.  It  was,  perhaps,  owing  also  to  the  conciliatory 
demeanour  as  well  as  constancy  of  the  Serampore  mission- 
aries.    The  first  evidence  of  this  friendly  disposition  was 
manifested  in  a  case  which  occurred  at  Madras.     Mr.  Lee, 
of  the  London  Missionary  Society,  ventured  to  apply  to 
Government  for  leave  to  settle  as  a  missionary  at  Vizaga- 
patam.     Mr.  Brown  and  Dr.  Carey,  and  even  Mr.  Udny, 
who  had  been  five  years  in  council,  and  understood  the 
temper  of  Government,  considered  the  application  an  act 
of  great  rashness,  and  were  confident  that  it  could  issue 
only  in  his  immediate  banishment  from  the  country.     To 
their  surprise,  permission   was  granted  at  Madras,   and 
then  confirmed  by  the  Supreme  Council  at  Calcutta.    This 
circumstance  was  immediately  communicated  to  Mr.  Fuller. 
It  was  five  years  since  any  missionaries  had  been  sent  out 
by  the  Society,  and  as  the  last  two  had  been   ordered 
to  return  to  England  as  soon  as  they  set  foot  in  India, 
Mr.    Fuller    had   prudently  refrained  from   any   other 
effort  to  recruit  the  mission.     His  friends  at  Serampore 
were  now  able  to  announce  a  favourable  change  in  the 
disposition  of  Government,  and  it  was  under  this  first 
dawn    of    encouragement    that    Mr.    Lawson    and    Mr. 
Johns  embarked  for  America  to  take  shipping  for  Cal- 
cutta. 

The  missionaries  at  Serampore  were  not  slow  to  take 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1810.]  HISTORY   OF  THE   SERAMPORE   MISSION.  429 

advantage  of  the  turn  of  tide,  and  they  began  to  entertain 
a  hope  that  the  long-desired  permission  to  Miwiontothe 
establish  stations  in  the  country  would  no  NorthWeat- 
longer  be  withheld.  They  were  particularly  desirous  of 
planting  a  mission  on  the  borders  of  the  Punjab.  The 
principle  of  action  they  had  laid  down  in  reference 
to  missions  beyond  the  limits  of  Bengal  was,  to  prepare 
and  print  the  best  translation  of  the  New  Testament  they 
could  effect  into  the  language  of  the  country,  and  to  send 
a  missionary  into  it  to  distribute  the  work,  and  cultivate 
the  language  on  the  spot,  with  a  view  to  the  gradual  im- 
provement of  the  version.  This  plan  was  recommended 
to  their  minds  by  various  considerations.  However  im- 
perfect the  first  translation  might  be,  it  was  still  suited  to 
the  object  of  giving  the  people  a  clear  view  of  the  leading 
doctrines  of  Christianity;  it  enabled  the  missionary  to 
enter  on  his  labours  at  once,  and  it  was  calculated  to  afford 
him  valuable  assistance  in  the  study  of  the  language. 
Such  a  plan  was,  of  course,  adapted  only  to  the  peculiar 
circumstances  of  the  time3,  and  to  the  position  of  the 
Serampore  mission,  which  was  then  the  only  agency 
existing  in  Northern  India,  for  the  diffusion  of  Divine 
truth.  The  Gospels  had  recently  been  completed  in  the 
language  of  the  Sikhs,  and  it  was  desirable  to  send  them 
into  circulation.  The  Sikhs  were  originally  Hindoos, 
but,  under  the  guidance  of  their  great  spiritual  leader, 
Baba  Nanuk,  they  had  broken  off  from  the  orthodox 
creed,  and  for  more  than  a  century  had  formed  a  nation  of 
sectaries.  Mr.  Ward  had  been  led,  in  the  course  of  his 
researches,  to  examine  their  creed  with  particular  attention, 
and  he  came  to  the  conclusion  that  there  must  be  a 
favourable  opening  for  the  introduction  of  the  Gospel 
among  a  people  accustomed  to  religious  innovations.  A 
meeting  was  held  at  Serampore  to  discuss  the  question ; 
the  map  of  India  was  spread  out  on  the  table,  and 
Mr.  Ward,  turning  to  Mr.  Chamberlain,  who  had  come 
from  Cutwa,  inquired  whether  he  was  wiling  to  venture 


Digitized  by 


Google 


430  HISTORY  OF  THE   SERAMPOEE  MISSION.       [Chap.  VIII. 

on  such  a  mission.  Mr.  Chamberlain's  natural  spirit 
of  enterprise,  and  his  aptitude  for  the  acquisition  of  lan- 
guages, fitted  him  for  a  mission  of  this  character.  He  was 
not  long  in  making  up  his  mind  to  accept  the  offer,  and  it 
was  resolved  that  Mr.  Peacock,  then  employed  in  the  Bene- 
volent  Institution,  should  accompany  him.  The  one  was  as 
mild  and  gentle  in  his  temper  as  the  other  was  impetuous 
and  overbearing ;  and  it  is  not  impossible  that  this  might 
have  been  one  motive  of  the  choice. 

The  missionaries  made  selection  of  Saharunpore,  one  of 
the  frontier  stations  in  the  direction  of  the  Punjab,  and 

they  ventured  to  present  an  official  application 
gpondeneewuh     to  the  Governor-General,  on  the  18  th  of  Sep- 

tember,  for  permission  to  send  two  missionaries 
to  that  station  to  improve  the  translation  of  the  Scriptures 
in  the  Punjabee  and  Hindoostanee  languages.     After  an 
interval  of  ten  days,  Mr.  Tucker,  the  public  secretary, 
replied  that  Government  was  under  the  necessity  of  re- 
fusing the  request,  but  the  Governor-General  desired  it  to 
be  explained  that  he  had  been  influenced  in  this  deter- 
mination only  by  those  considerations  which  rendered  it 
imprudent  for  any  Europeans,  not  sustaining  a  public 
character,  to  settle  in  the  frontier  districts  in  the  present 
circumstances  of  the  country.     The  letter,  though  it  ne- 
gatived their  request,  was  one  of  the  most  encouraging 
the  missionaries  had  received  from  the  Government.     It 
was  no  longer  objected  that  the  missionaries  were  without 
the  permission  of  the  Honourable  Court  to  remain  in  the 
country.     There  was  no  allusion  to  the  standing  argu- 
ment against  missions,  that  the  Government  had  a  pledge 
to  maintain,  and  national  faith  and  honour  to  support, 
and  could  not  allow  the  missionaries  to  molest  the  natives 
in  the  exercise  of  their  religion  by  the  promulgation  of 
another  creed.     The  refusal  was  based  on  no  objection 
applicable  to  missionaries  alone.     Mr.  Marshman  imme- 
diately called  on  Mr.  Edmonstone,  and  found  him  not  only 
friendly,  but  cordial.     He  advised  that  the  missionaries 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1810.]  HISTORY   OF  THB  SBKAMPOBB   MISSION.  431 

should  seek  permission  to  settle  at  Agra  or  Delhi,  and  that 
Mr.  Marshman   should  have  a  personal  interview  with 
Lord  Minto,  with  whom  he  promised  intermediately  to  com- 
municate on  the  subject.     Mr.  Marshman  lost  no  time  in 
waiting  on  the  Governor-General,  and,  after  some  conver- 
sation regarding  the  Chinese  translations,  brought  up  the 
question  of  a  mission  to  the  north-west  provinces,  for 
which  he  presumed  that  Mr.  Edmonstone  had  already- 
prepared  him.     Lord  Minto  said  he  believed  a  request  to 
send  a  mission  to  Agra  or  Delhi  would  be  granted,  and 
he  promised  to  inform  him  of  the  result  of  the  delibera- 
tions at  the  Council  Board,  after  which  nothing  further 
would  be  necessary  than  for  the  missionaries  destined  for 
the  north-west  to  make  an  application  for  leave  to  proceed 
thither,  saying  nothing  of  anything  else.     The  application 
was  accordingly  made,  but  Lord  Minto  was  unwilling  to 
record  a  formal  order  in  the  consultations,  as  this  must 
have  brought  the  subject  distinctly  before  the  Court  of 
Directors,  who  might  have  revoked  the  permission.     A 
demi-official  communication  was  therefore  made  to  Mr. 
Chamberlain  from  the  secretary's  office,  simply  informing 
him  that  the  passport  for  himself  and  his  associate  was 
prepared,  and  would  be  delivered,  whenever  he  called  for 
it,  on  the  payment  of  the  usual  fee  of  two  gold  mohurs, 
then  equal  to  about  Al.     As  the  system  of  passports  has 
been  entirely  abolished  in  India  for  more  than  a  quarter 
of  a  century,  the  following  copy  of  Mr.  Chamberlain's 
passport  may  possess  some  antiquarian  interest :  — 

"  To  the  Commanding  Officers  of  Stations,  Chief  or  Subordi- 
nate, &c.  whom  it  may  concern. 

"  This  is  to  certify  that  the  bearer  hereof,  Mr.  John  Chamberlain, 
has  the  permission  of  the  Right  Hon.  the  Governor-General  in 
Council  to  reside  at  Agra  during  the  pleasure  of  Government, 
subject  to  all  orders  and  regulations  which  may  be  communicated 
to  him  from  time  to  time  by  the  Commanding  Officer,  and  by  the 
Judge  and  Magistrate  of  Agra.  Mr.  Chamberlain  is  required 
immediately  on  his  arrival  at  Agra  to  report  himself  to  the  Magis- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


432  HISTORY  OF  THE   SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  VIIL 

trate  of  that  station  and  produce  this  passport  If  he  should 
neglect  to  report  himself,  and  shall  be  unable  to  assign  a  satisfactory 
reason  for  this  omission,  he  will  be  considered  to  have  forfeited 
the  benefit  of  the  passport,  and  will  be  liable  to  be  sent  imme- 
diately to  the  Presidency  by  the  Magistrate.  Mr.  Chamberlain  is 
also  required  to  give  due  notice  to  the  Magistrate  whenever  he 
may  intend  to  quit  his  jurisdiction,  and  to  specify  the  place  to 
which  he  may  propose  to  proceed. 

"  Given  by  order  of  the  Right  Hon.  the  Governor-General  in 
Council  of  Fort  William,  in  Bengal,  this  16th  day  of  November, 
1810. 

"  H.  Tucker, 
"  Sec.  to  the  Govt.  Pub.  Dept." 

There  was  much  cause  for  gratitude  for  this  first  relaxa- 
tion of  the  rigid  opposition  to  the  missionary  cause  which 
had  been  manifested  for  five  years.  But  it  was  impossible 
for  the  missionaries,  who  had  devoted  life  and  purse,  heart 
and  soul,  to  this  great  enterprise  of  Christian  benevolence, 
not  to  feel  that  the  treatment  they  had  received  from  a 
British  and  a  Christian  Government  was  not  such  as  they 
had  merited ;  and  we  find  Mr.  Ward  recording  the  circum- 
stance with  this  pungent  remark  —  "  Now  we  are  likely 
to  get  stations  fixed  with  the  public  permission  of  Go- 
vernment, and  we  shall  be  tolerated  like  toads,  and  not 
hunted  down  like  wild  beasts." 

In  one  of  Mr.  Carey's  letters  of  the  present  year  we 
find  him  writing  in  a  spirit  of  great  animation  of  the 
character  and  work  which  had  been  accomplished  in  the 
peionai  labour,  translations :  —  "  When  I  first  entered  on  the 
MurfoDari*.  translation  of  the  Scriptures  into  the  Bengalee 
language,  I  thought  that  if  ever  I  should  live  to  see  it 
completed,  I  could  say  with  Simeon,  '  Lord,  now  lettest 
thou  thy  servant  depart  in  peace,  according  to  thy  word ;' 
but  he  has  preserved  me  not  only  to  see  the  version 
finished,  but  has  given  me  an  opportunity  of  making 
many  corrections,  in  succeeding  editions,  in  various  parts 
of  it,  and  also  has  preserved  me  to  see  portions  of  the 
Bible  printed  in  Orissa,  Sanscrit,  Hindoostanee,  Mahratta, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1810.]  HISTORY  OP  THE  SBRAMPORB  MISSION.  433 

Carnata,  Telinga,  and  Punjabee,  Matthew  in  Chinese,  and 
a  beginning  in  the  Burmese  translation."  With  all  these 
herculean  labours  on  him,  he  still  regarded  his  exer- 
tions in  the  missionary  cause  with  feelings  of  unfeigned 
humility,  and  said  in  his  next  letter:  —  "I  have  often 
thought  that  the  work  must  be  obstructed  by  me,  and 
that  the  God  who  aboundeth  in  all  wisdom  and  prudence 
in  the  dispensations  of  his  grace,  could  not  give  a  blessing 
to  the  labours  of  such  a  one  as  I  am,  without  deviating 
from  that  wisdom  and  prudence  which  He  always  observes. 
I  have  often  been  discouraged  on  account  of  that  apparent 
want  of  every  pre-requisite  for  publishing  the  gospel,  both 
natural  and  moral,  of  which  I  am  undoubtedly  the  subject. 
A  natural  backwardness  for  spiritual  conversation,  a  per- 
petual vagrancy  of  mind,  and  uncommon  barrenness  of 
idea,  a  great  prevalence  of  unsanctified  affection,  to  which 
I  may  now  add  a  great  decay  of  recollection,  have  long 
pressed  me  down,  and  convinced  me  that  the  ministry  of 
the  Gospel  is  not  the  work  for  which  I  am  fitted.  I  have 
for  years  been  obliged  to  drag  myself  on,  to  subject  myself 
to  rules,  to  impose  the  day's  work  upon  myself,  to  stir 
myself  up  to  my  work,  perhaps  sometimes  several  times  in 
an  hour,  and,  after  all,  to  sit  down  in  confusion  at  my  indo- 
lence and  inertness  in  all  to  which  I  set  my  hand.  I  often 
compare  myself  with  my  brethren,  particularly  Brethren 
Marshman  and  Ward,  with  whose  daily  conduct  I  am 
best  acquainted.  The  first  of  these  is  all  eagerness  for 
the  work.  Often  have  I  seen  him,  when  we  have  been 
walking  together,  eye  a  group  of  persons,  as  a  hawk  looks 
on  its  prey,  and  go  up  to  them  with  a  resolution  to  try  the 
utmost  strength  of  Gospel  reasons  upon  them.  Often  have 
I  known  him  engage  with  such  ardour  in  a  dispute  with 
men  of  lax  conduct  or  deistical  sentiments,  and  labour  the 
point  with  them  for  hours  together  without  fatigue,  nay, 
more  eager  for  the  contest  when  he  left  off  than  when  he 
began,  as  has  filled  me  with  shame.  In  point  of  zeal  he  is 
Luther,  and  I  am  Erasmus.     Brother  Ward  has  such  a 

VOL.  I.  F  P 


Digitized  by 


Google 


434  HISTORY  OF  THE  SBBAMPORB  MISSION.      [Chap.  VHI. 

facility  of  addressing  spiritual  things  to  the  heart,  and  his 
thoughts  run  so  naturally  in  that  channel,  that  he  fixes 
the  minds  of  all  who  hear  him  on  what  he  says,  while  I, 
after  making  repeated  efforts,  can  scarcely  get  out  a  few 
dry  sentences,  and  should  I  meet  with  a  rebuff  at  the  be- 
ginning, sit,  like  a  silly  mute,  and  scarcely  say  anything 
at  all.  Reflections  such  as  these  have  occasioned  and  still 
do  occasion  me  much  distress." 

Of  the  extraordinary  personal  labours  of  Mr.  Ward,  even 
at  the  most  oppressive  season  of  the  year,  we  have  a  de- 
scription in  his  Journal  of  the  17th  of  June.  In  the 
morning  he  received  two  soldiers  into  the  Church  on  their 
confession  of  faith,  and  then  preached  to  a  large  English 
congregation  in  the  Bow  Bazar  Chapel,  and  subsequently 
held  a  meeting  in  the  vestry,  to  catechise  as  many  children 
as  could  be  accommodated  there.  He  then  went  to  the 
house  of  an  enquirer,  and  proceeded  from  thence  to  the 
great  jail,  a  distance  of  three  miles,  and  preached  to  the 
prisoners,  first  in  English  and  then  in  Bengalee,  and  held 
a  religious  service  with  three  soldiers  in  the  hospital. 
After  dusk,  he  went  into  the  fort,  and  addressed  a  congre- 
gation of  soldiers  in  a  close  and  suffocating  room.  In  the 
evening  he  met  a  number  of  friends  at  the  house  of  one  of 
the  members  of  the  church,  and  passed  an  hour  in  social 
and  religious  conversation,  closing  the  labours  of  the  day, 
at  ten,  with  devotional  exercises.  The  only  remark  he 
makes  on  exertions  which  appear  too  severe  for  any  Eu- 
ropean constitution  in  a  tropical  climate,  is,  "  Preaching 
in  black  cloth  in  this  climate  is  a  sad  burden.  My  clothes 
have  been  saturated  with  perspiration  three  times  to-day, 
and  the  very  papers  in  my  pocket  are  dyed  black.  .  .  Thus 
you  see  the  heat  of  the  climate  does  not  prevent  a  hard 
day's  work." 

While   Mr.   Marshman  was  thus  zealously  employed 

in  prosecuting  his  missionary  labours,  he  cheerfully  availed 

himself  of  the  opportunity  of  literary  inter- 

coJri^&i-     course  with    Dr.   Leyden   and   other  friends 

in  Calcutta.   The  religious  views  of  Dr.  Leyden 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


1810.]  HISTORY  OF  THE   SEBAMPOEB  MISSION.  435 

and  Mr.  Marshman  were  not  in  accord,  but  they  felt 
a  common  interest  in  the  pursuits  of  literature,  more  par- 
ticularly in  the  field  of  Eastern  philology.  On  this  neutral 
ground  they  were  able  to  meet  without  any  clashing 
of  opinions,  but  it  was  on  the  implied  condition,  rendered 
necessary  after  several  collisions,  that  the  topic  of  religion 
should  not  be  introduced.  It  was  at  one  of  these  social 
meetings  that  Dr.  Leyden,  forgetting  the  convention,  made 
some  disparaging  remarks  on  the  doctrines  of  the  Bible, 
alluding  more  particularly  to  the  epistle  to  the  Ephesians, 
of  which  he  said  he  had  been  reading  over  the  first 
chapter,  without  being  able  to  make  any  thing  of  it.  "  And 
therefore,"  replied  Mr.  Marshman, u  you  think  yourself  jus- 
tified in  your  objections  to  the  Christian  revelation.  Now, 
I  was  anxious  some  time  back  to  study  the  theory  of 
medicine,  and,  at  your  recommendation,  took  up  Cullen's 
First  Lines,  but,  though  I  read  the  whole  of  the  first  chapter 
through  with  the  greatest  attention,  I  found  myself  unable 
to  comprehend  it.  Am  I  therefore  justified  in  denouncing 
the  whole  science  of  medicine  ? "  The  unreserved  and 
friendly  intercourse  which  subsisted  between  them  will  be 
apparent  from  two  of  Dr.  Leyden's  letters,  which  will  like- 
wise illustrate  one  of  the  most  prominent  defects  in  Mr. 
Marshman's  character.  Though  he  possessed  the  most 
powerful  memory,  perhaps,  of  any  man  in  India  in  regard  to 
dates,  facts  and  opinions,  he  seldom  remembered  to  return 
books,  and  he  had  all  his  life  been  an  insatiable  borrower. 

"  And  now  with  respect  to  the  books  which  you  have  recollected 
so  well  to  return,  you  have  made  me  tell  more  lies  than  any  good 
Scotchman  ever  did  on  the  same  subject,  by  not  sending  them  as 
I  expected.  Moreover,  you  forgot  entirely  to  send  me  the  Quar- 
terly Review,  which  is  wanted  by  Mr.  Adam,  the  owner,  and  there 
is  another  Edinburgh  Review,  viz.  that  of  the  article  on  Methodism, 
which  belongs  to  the  Circulating  Library  and  has  been  long  wanted, 
which  you  have  had  these  four  months.  Besides,  there  is  my  Histo- 
rical Sketch  which  is  wanted,  and  till  I  get  it,  I  really  cannot  call 
on  Mr.  Harington.  Moreover  there  is  my  Burman  MS.  which  I 
cannot  go  on  without    In  short,  there  is  no  end  of  your  mistakes 


Digitized  by 


Google 


436  HISTORY  OP  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  V3H. 

and  forgettings,  and  of  my  wants,  and  your  Mend  Confucius  will 
positively  excuse  you  no  longer,  and  says  you  can  never  be  a  great 
man  till  you  can  tell  where  any  book  is  lying  or  reposing  in  your 
library,  and  the  whole  series  of  them,  as  clearly  as  the  Chinese 
dynasties.  Therefore  I  hope  you  will  speedily  come  to  a  right 
sense  of  the  evil  of  your  ways,  and  recollect  the  suum  cuique  tribuito 
as  the  first  maxim  in  borrowing  books  is  nearly  equal  to  the  quod 
utile  cuique  in  lending  them.  Therefore  if  your  memory  fails  you, 
you  may  expect  a  preachification  which  will  be  very  edifying." 

"  I  received  Confucius  in  a  much  more  damaged  state  than  I 
could  have  wished,  though  you  say  much  less  than  you  expected. 
Colebrooke  is  a  man  particularly  careful  about  his  books,  and  you 
are  one  particularly  negligent,  and  the  whole  that  I  think  is  that 
this  will  not  promote  your  cause  with  him.  Indeed,  to  tell  you 
the  truth,  I  should  not  have  ventured  to  lend  you  a  book  not  mine 
had  I  not  expected  you  to  take  better  care  of  it  This,  by  the  bye, 
is  a  very  general  complaint  of  you  and  one  that  you  will  do  well  to 
correct.  You  lost  my  Malay  Pentateuch  through  your  careless- 
ness, and  spoilt  Colebrooke's  Confucius,  and  you  have,  I  find,  wetted 
the  A  nam  Dictionary  and  lost  the  title  page,  for  the  library  of  the 
Coll. ;  and  you  let  Mr.  Manning's  Chinese  volumes  fall  into  the 
water  and  spoiled  them.  In  short,  you  have  cracked  your  credit 
with  the  whole  circle  of  book-lenders.  As  for  myself,  you  ask  if 
I  have  any  books  of  yours,  for  you  have  forgot;  now  this  is  very 
bad  to  forget,  but  if  you  have,  I  have  not.  I  have  four  vols,  of 
yours  and  several  pamphlets.  In  like  manner  you  have  one  of 
mine,  which  I  hope  is  in  Mr.  Ward's  hands  and  not  yours,  or  I 
should  be  apt  to  insure  it  against  wear  and  tear,  which  with  you 
is  quite  abominable." 

About  the  beginning  of  the  year  1810  a  very  agreeable 
addition  was  made  to  this  literary  circle  by  the  arrival  of 
Mr.  Thomas  Manning  in  Calcutta.  k  His  family  was  settled 
at  Diss  in  Norfolk,  and  he  had  taken  a  good  degree 
at  Cambridge,  after  which  he  was  led,  by  his  natural  love  of 
literary  enterprise,  to  cultivate  the  Chinese  language.  He 
was  the  friend  and  associate  of  Charles  Lamb,  some  of  the 
most  interesting  of  whose  letters  are  addressed  to  his 
44  Chinese  mandarin."  Mr.  Manning  took  advantage  of  the 
Peace  of  Amiens  to  visit  Paris,  and  examine  the  rich 
stores  of  Chinese  literature  collected  in  the  Bibliotheque 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1810.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SEBAMPOBE  MISSION.  437 

Rationale.  He  subsequently  went  to  Macao,  but  found  it 
impossible  to  accomplish  his  object  of  entering  the  country, 
and  came  round  to  Bengal,  in  the  hope  of  being  able 
to  reach  it  by  way  of  Tibet  or  Assam.  He  was  accompa- 
nied by  a  Chinese  youth,  a  Christian,  who  had  received  a 
classical  education  from  the  Roman  Catholic  missionaries 
at  Pekin,  and  spoke  Latin,  in  which  he  always  communi- 
cated with  Mr.  Manning,  with  great  fluency.  To  facilitate 
his  object  of  entering  China,  Mr.  Manning  assumed  the 
Chinese  costume,  the  wooden  shoes,  the  buttoned  cap,  and 
the  long  tail,  and  cultivated  a  magnificent  black  beard, 
which  gave  additional  dignity  to  his  very  expressive 
countenance.  Thus  arrayed,  he  hoped  to  be  able  to  pass 
into  the  country  as  a  Tartar,  but  he  had  no  sooner  arrived 
at  Llassa,  than  he  was  discovered  to  be  foreigner ;  and  a 
report  having  been  forwarded  to  Pekin  that  an  English- 
man had  made  his  appearance  there  in  the  disguise  of  a 
Chinese,  an  order  was  issued  to  seize  him  and  convey  him 
under  a  guard  to  the  capital.  "  I  should  be  far  better 
with  than  without  my  head,"  he  wrote  to  a  friend  in  Cal- 
cutta, "  and  I  am  therefore  beating  a  retreat  in  all  speed  to 
the  British  territories."  On  his  first  arrival  in  Calcutta, 
he  immediately  sought  the  acquaintance  of  the  only 
individual,  besides  himself,  who  had  pursued  the  study  of 
Chinese,  and  this  kindred  pursuit  soon  brought  them  into 
close  intimacy.  Mr.  Marshman's  admiration  of  Mr. 
Manning's  talents  increased  with  their  acquaintance,  and 
he  describes  him  in  one  of  his  letters,  as  "a  man  of 
singular  erudition  and  penetration,  and  certainly  one  of  the 
first  in  the  list  of  Chinese  scholars  of  the  present  day." 
At  a  subsequent  period,  he  referred  to  him  as  "  his  friend, 
who  to  the  most  exquisite  classical  taste  unites  the 
delicacy  and  the  incorruptible  integrity  which  characterise 
the  scholar  and  the  gentleman."  It  was  in  the  present 
year  that  Mr.,  afterwards  Sir  Stamford,  Raffles,  the 
Secretary  to  the  Government  of  Penang,  came  up  from 
the  Straits  to  confer  with  the  Governor-General  on  the 

TVS 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


438  HIST0BY  OF  THE  SBRAMPOfiE  MISSION.      [Chap.  VHI. 

expedition  to  Java,  then  in  contemplation.  He  had  made 
the  acquaintance  of  Dr.  Leyden,  during  his  sojourn  in  the 
eastern  islands,  and  was  introduced  by  him  to  Mr.  Marsh- 
man,  with  whom  a  friendly  intercourse,  founded  on  mutual 
respect,  was  soon  matured*  These  friends  were  in  the 
habit  of  supping  together  at  Dr.  Leyden's,  and  their  sitting 
was  often  prolonged  beyond  midnight.  It  was  the  most 
intellectual  and  interesting  little  coterie  in  Calcutta. 
Leyden  was  a  literary  colossus,  and  had  applied,  with 
incredible  diligence,  to  the  cultivation  of  every  branch  of 
Oriental  literature.  Manning  Was  one  of  the  most  accom- 
plished scholars  in  India.  Raffles  may  almost  be  said  to 
have  appropriated  to  himself  the  languages  and  the 
literature  of  the  Eastern  Archipelago;  and  Dr.  Hare, 
another  of  the  party,  was  one  of  the  most  eminent  physi- 
cians in  the  city,  and  a  man  of  cultivated  taste.  What- 
ever difference  of  opinion  may  have  existed  in  this  circle 
on  the  subject  of  religion,  they  fully  appreciated  the 
fervour4  of  Mr.  Marshman's  zeal  in  the  cause  of  Indian 
improvement,  and  delighted  in  the  society  of  one  whose 
stores  of  reading  appeared  to  be  inexhaustible.  On  his 
part,  he  derived  no  ordinary  enjoyment  from  these  literary 
discussions,  into  which  he  could  enter  without  any  com- 
promise of  Christian  principle  or  intrepidity*  Of  Mr. 
Manning's  correspondence  with  Mr.  Marshman,  only  one 
letter  has  been  preserved.     It  ran  thus :  — 

"  My  dear  Friend,  I  have  taken  a  resolution  of  going  to  Sylhet, 
and  to  Munipore,  if  possible,  and  intend  leaving  Calcutta  in  eight 
or  ten  days  from  the  date  of  this.  So  short  a  journey  will  occasion 
but  a  slight  loss  of  time,  even  if  I  should  be  unable  to  strike  off 
from  Munipore,  eastward,  to  you  know  what  empire.  I  had 
some  hopes  that  Dr.  Leyden  would  accompany  me,  taking  me, 
as  it  were  as  his  Chinese  Moonshee,  and  by  that  means  easily 
pushing  me  off  at  Munipore,  or  wherever  it  might  be.  I  thought 
this  a  very  useful  scheme  for  me.  I  think  bo  still,  but  all  seems 
uncertainty  in  that  quarter,  which  is  sufficient  with  me  to  reduce 
such  assistance  to  the  rank  of  ordinary  events,  and  consequently  to 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1810,]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  439 

wean  me  from  any  enthusiasm  concerning  it.     So,  no  more  of 
that 

"  Now  I  would  propose  apian  in  which  you  might  help  me.  'Tis 
that  Mr.  Lassar  should  go  with  me  as  an  Armenian,  I  furnishing 
the  merchandise,  and  paying  all  expenses.  The  advantage  to  me 
you  see  at  one  glance ;  viz.  what  I  have  above  adverted  to,  and 
his  instruction  in  the  Chinese.  Any  present  that  I  could  make 
,him  in  the  end  would  be  but  small,  because  my  means  are  small, 
but  however  able  I  were  in  that  respect,  I  would  not  apply  to 
him  otherwise  than  through  you.  For  if  such  an  arrangement  be 
really  inconvenient  to  you,  and  should  really  seem  so  after  you 
have  considered  all  things,  both  as  my  friend,  and  a  friend  of 
mankind,  then  there's  an  end  of  it.  I  am  sure  that  you  see  what- 
ever difference  there  may  be  in  our  opinions  and  views,  and  even 
supposing  that  where  we  differ  essentially  I  am  wrong,  yet  I 
am  equally  an  instrument  in  the  hands  of  Providence,  and  may 
equally  be  the  means  of  opening  China  to  the  real  and  eternal 
goods  of  the  western  world." 

In  the  prosecution  of  his  Chinese  studies  at  this  period 
Mr.  Marshman  derived  much  assistance  and  encouragement 
from  Father  Rodrigues,  a  Roman  Catholic  Missionary,  born 
and  educated  in  Brazil,  who  had  spent  ten  years  at  Pekin, 
and  was  intimately  acquainted  both  with  the  written  and 
colloquial  language  of'  China.  He  came  round  to  Bengal 
about  this  time  on  his  return  to  his  native  land,  and  re- 
mained nine  months  in  Calcutta,  where  Mr.  Marshman 
soon  sought  his  acquaintance.  Father  Rodrigues  exhibited 
that  general  liberality  of  sentiment,  and  that  absence  of 
religious  antagonism  which  was  at  that  period  common 
to  the  Roman  Catholic  Missionaries  in  the  East,  and 
he  found  no  small  reciprocity  of  feeling  in  this  respect 
at  Serampore.  He  was  ignorant  of  English,  but  he  spoke 
and  wrote  Latin  fluently,  and  Mr.  Marshman  opened  a 
correspondence  with  him  in  that  language  "  as  the  easiest 
medium,"  he  remarks,  "  of  communicating  our  ideas  to  each 
other."  In  noticing  this  circumstance  to  Dr.  Ryland, 
he  says,  "It  is  a  matter  of  considerable  value  to  any 
young  man  who  may  come  eastward  on  missionary  work, 
to  acquire  a  facility  of  writing  Latin  correctly ;  and,  indeed, 

F  P4 


Digitized  by 


Google 


440  HISTORY  OP  THE   SBRAMPOEE  MISSION.      [Chap.  VHI. 

.of  speaking  it,  if  he  has  opportunity.  The  Romish  mis- 
sionaries are  scattered  in  almost  all  parts  of  the  East,  and 
it  may  often  be  of  service  to  correspond  with  them,  for 
which  Latin  is  the  proper  language.  I  heard  a  young 
Chinese  conversing  lately  in  Latin,  with  great  apparent 
readiness,  who  had  been  brought  up  at  Pekin  with  the 
Roman  Catholic  Missionaries."  Mr.  Marshman  then 
alluded  to  the  great  obligation  under  which  he  lay  to  Father 
Rodrigues  for  his  readiness  in  communicating  the  valuable 
information  he  had  collected  regarding  Chinese  literature, 
and  for  the  loan  of  his  Chinese  works.  "  I  seem  after  seeing 
Rodrigues  and  Manning  as  though  just  beginning  my 
career,  so  great  is  the  pleasure  of  present  study  and  future 
anticipation." 

It  was  at  this  time  that  Mr.  Marshman  published  the 
first  volume  of  his  English  translation  of  the  works  of 
Confucius,  with  a  preliminary  dissertation  on  the  language 
of  China.  Considering  the  disadvantages  under  which 
this  work  was  undertaken,  without  any  of  those  facilities 
for  the  cultivation  of  the  language  which  were  to  be  found 
in  the  country  itself,  the  work  is  a  monument  of  literary 
enterprise,  and  fully  merited  the  hearty  encomium  passed 
on  it  by  Lord  Minto  in  his  annual  address  to  the  students 
of  the  College: 

"  The  first  volume  of  the  works  of  Confucius,  which  was  an- 
nounced last  year,  has  been  lately  issued  from  the  Mission  press 
at  Serampore,  and  is  preceded  by  a  dissertation  on  the  Chinese 
language,  which  throws  considerable  light  on  that  very  singular 
and  obscure  system.  This  work  contains  the  text  of  the  venerable 
author  printed  in  the  Chinese  character,  the  types  of  which  have 
been  prepared  and  submitted  to  the  press  by  the  patient  and  in- 
genious industry  of  the  translator  and  editor.  The  translation  is 
referred  by  numbers  over  each  sentence,  to  the  corresponding 
words  of  the  Chinese  text,  and  is  accompanied  by  an  ample  com- 
mentary. This  book,  therefore,  while  it  renders  the  long-venerated 
lessons  of  the  Chinese  sage  accessible  for  the  first  time  to  an 
English  reader,  furnishes  also  the  best  clue  to  guide  the  inquisitive 
student  through  the  unexplored  labyrinths  of  this  extraordinary 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1810.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SBBAMPOEB  MISSION.  441 

language,  and  supplies  perhaps  the  only  elementary  aid  which  can 
be  provided  for  the  acquisition  of  a  language  constructed  upon  a 
plan  so  anomalous  as  to  exclude,  or  I  should,  perhaps,  rather  say,  • 
as  to  seem  to  exclude  the  application  of  those  grammatical  theories 
which  have  indeed  been  deduced  from  languages  after  their  prac- 
tical use  had  been  established,  but  the  universal  principles  of  which 
must  be  thought  to  have  presided  in  the  origin  and  regulation  of 
oral  and  written  transmission  of  thought  in  all  its  possible  or  ima- 
ginable modes  and  forms.  Mr.  Marshman,  both  by  the  principal 
work,  and  by  his  preliminary  dissertation,  appears  to  have  led  the 
way  in  reconciling  this  apparent  anomaly  with  the  general  and 
fundamental  principles  of  human  intercourse ;  and,  by  letting  in 
light  upon  this  Chinese  mystery,  to  have  done  something  towards 
its  solution.  I  cannot  willingly  omit  the  opportunity  which  this 
singular  publication  presents  of  offering  the  homage  which  appears 
to  me  to  be  due  to  this  laudable  effort  of  modest  genius  and  labour ; 
which  has  pushed  forward  the  apparently  hopeless  project  of  form- 
ing a  Chinese  school,  under  circumstances  so  little  propitious  to 
such  an  undertaking,  to  a  point  of  success  and  efficiency  which 
larger  means  and  more  powerful  encouragement  could  hardly  have 
justified  a  hope  of  attaining.  This  commendable  design  has  ad- 
vanced, however,  silently,  without  aid  or  notice,  by  the  innate 
powers  of  strenuous,  though  humble  and  unassuming  energy  of 
mind,  directed  by  liberal  and  virtuous  views.  What  Mr.  Marsh- 
man  has  already  accomplished,  both  in  the  tuition  of  the  young 
but  distinguished  pupils,  and  in  works,  the  produce  of  self-instruc- 
tion, would  have  done  honour  to  institutions  fostered  by  all  the 
aids  of  munificence  and  power ;  to  have  risen  in  the  shade,  ipsi 
suis  pollens  opibus,  renders  his  successful  labours  only  the  more 
worthy  of  admiration." 

After  the  last  sheet  of  the  work  had  passed  through 
the  press,  Mr.  Marshman  was  enabled  to  obtain  a  copy  of 
the  Latin  translation  of  Confucius,  made  by  the  Jesuit 
fathers,  and  printed  at  Paris  in  1686.  This  version  bore 
the  character  rather  of  a  paraphrase  than  a  literal  transla- 
tion. As  his  translation,  though  finished  at  press,  had  not 
yet  been  published,  he  was  enabled  to  add  a  postscript, 
in  which  the  salient  points  of  difference  he  discovered 
between  the  two  versions  —  which,  however,  were  insigni- 
ficant —  were  unreservedly  communicated  to  the  reader. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


442  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.VHL 

Towards  the  close  of  the  present  year,  Mr.  Ward  pub- 
lished the  first  edition  of  Ms  work  on  the  "  History, 
Literature,  and  Mythology  of  the  Hindoos,  in- 
^r*JberHu7<^  eluding  a  minute  description  of  their  manners 

Literature,     und  -,  ,  ■%     .  i     ,•  o  .1      • 

M^^oayofthe  and  customs,  and  translations  irom  their  prin- 
cipal works,"  for  which  he  had  been  collecting 
materials  since  his  arrival  in  the  country.  It  opens  with 
the  Hindoo  account  of  the  creation,  of  the  divisions  of 
the  earth,  and  more  particularly  of  India,  and  presents  a 
brief  narrative  of  the  succession  of  Hindoo  monarchs, 
drawn  from  Hindoo  records,  from  the  "  golden  age  v  to  the 
advent  of  the  Mahommedans.  After  a  rapid  notice  of  the 
period  of  Mussulman  history,  he  introduces  the  native 
version  of  the  facts  connected  with  the  rise  and  growth  of 
British  power  in  Bengal,  as  exhibited  in  several  historical 
treatises  which  had  been  compiled  by  the  natives  them- 
selves, after  the  battle  of  Plassey.  This  historical  sketch 
is  valuable  chiefly  from  the  view  it  presents  of  the  opi- 
nions then  current  among  the  natives  <Jn  this  interesting 
subject.  But  their  statements,  when  compared  with  the 
minute  and  accurate  details  given  in  our  own  official  re- 
cords, only  serve  to  show  the  degree  of  ignorance  which 
prevailed  on  the  true  character  of  these  events  among 
those  who  may  be  said  to  have  been  contemporary  with 
them.  Mr.  Ward  then  proceeds  to  treat  of  the  divisions 
of  caste,  sacerdotal  and  secular,  and  of  their  distinguishing 
customs,  duties  and  employments.  A  large  chapter  is 
then  devoted  to  the  manners  and  peculiarities  of  the 
different  classes  of  society,  their  domestic  occupations  and 
habits,  the  current  of  their  thoughts  and  feelings  as  ex- 
hibited in  their  conversation  and  correspondence ;  the 
ceremonies  practised  on  the  occasion  of  births,  marriages, 
and  deaths,  and  a  variety  of  interesting  and  miscellaneous 
particulars  calculated  to  illustrate  the  interior  life  of 
Hindoo  families.  The  next  chapter  treats  of  Hindoo 
philosophy,  of  the  systems  promulgated  by  the  great 
sages  of  Hindoo  antiquity,  the  Vedas  and  the  Poorans, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1810.]  HISTORY  OF  THE   SEBAMPORE  MISSION.  443 

the  civil  and  criminal  code,  and  the  principles  and  practice 
of  government.  He  then  gives  his  remarks  on  the  works 
relative  to  religious  ceremonies,  on  their  poetical  works, 
and  treatises  on  music  and  rhetoric,  and  closes  the  chapter 
with  observations  on  the  existing  state  of  Hindoo  learning, 
and  its  gradual  decay. 

The  second  volume  embraces  the  mythology  of  the 
Hindoos,  and  the  character  and  exploits  of  the  more 
popular  objects  of  worship,  and  gives  a  full  and  minute 
description  of  the  multiplied  religious  ceremonies  of  which 
the  life  of  a  Hindoo  is  composed,  and  it  ends  with  a 
reference  to  the  principal  heterodox  sects  which  had 
sprung  up  in  the  bosom  of  Hindooism.  The  work  is  a 
rich  treasury  of  information,  and  exhibits  in  an  extraordi- 
nary degree  that  patient  and  laborious  spirit  of  research 
which  inspires  confidence.  Its  value  has  not  been  di- 
minished by  fifty  years  of  subsequent  investigation,  and,  as 
a  whole,  it  continues  to  maintain  its  authority  as  the 
fullest  and  most  accurate  record  of  the  subjects  on  which 
it  treats.  The  least  valuable  portion  of  it  is  that  which 
relates  to  the  sects  of  Hindoo  philosophy,  and  the  doc- 
trines by  which  they  were  distinguished.  Mr-  Ward  was 
but  imperfectly  acquainted  with  Sanscrit,  and  was  there- 
fore unable  to  consult  the  original  authorities.  He  em- 
ployed some  of  the  most  learned  pundits  on  the  establish- 
ment at  Serampore,  to  make  extracts  from  the  philoso- 
phical works  of  the  different  schools,  which  they  translated 
into  the  vernacular  tongue,  and  thus  furnished  him  with 
the  information  given  in  his  work.  Since  its  publication, 
many  profound  Orientalists  have  dived  into  the  Sanscrit 
treatises,  and  have  thus  been  enabled  to  present  a  more 
ample,  and,  perhaps,  a  more  correct  exposition  of  their 
doctrines.  The  most  important  section  of  the  work  is  that 
which  describes  the  domestic  manners  and  habits,  the 
thoughts  and  the  feelings  of  the  people.  It  exhibits  an 
acquaintance  with  the  interior  economy  of  native  society 
which  has  never  been  surpassed,  and  is  still  regarded  as 


Digitized  by 


Google 


444  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPOBR  MISSION.      [Chap.  VIE 

the  most  accurate  and  vivid  representation  of  it  we 
possess.  Some  have  objected  to  the  dark  colours  in  which 
Mr.  Ward  has  drawn  the  native  character,  and  those 
who  consider  it  to  be  marked  by  mildness  and  benevo- 
lence, have  reprobated  the  characteristics  of  falsehood  and 
ingratitude,  treachery  and  cruelty,  which  he  has  given  to 
it.  Some  have  even  affirmed  that  his  dark  picture  of  the 
Hindoo  is  to  be  ascribed  to  the  influence  of  his  missionary 
feelings,  and  was  designed  to  show  the  importance  of  mis- 
sionary exertions  among  a  people  whom  he  described  as 
sunk  to  "  the  utmost  depths  of  human  depravity."  Bat 
all  these  suspicions  of  exaggeration  have  been  at  once 
and  for  ever  dispelled  by  recent  events.  While  these 
pages  are  passing  through  the  press,  the  mutiny  of  a 
hundred  thousand  of  our  native  soldiery  has  been  an- 
nounced, and  Mr.  Ward's  view  of  the  genuine  character  of 
Hindooism  has  been  lamentably  verified  by  the  wanton 
and  unparalleled  atrocities  committed  on  unoffending 
women  and  helpless  babes,  by  the  mild  and  humane 
Hindoos,  when  released  from  all  restraint,  and  at  liberty 
to  indulge  their  passions. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1811.]  HISTORY  OP  THE  SBBAMPORB  MISSION.  445 


CHAP.  IX. 

At  the  beginning  of  1811  an  Auxiliary  Bible  Society  was 
formed  in  Calcutta.  It  was  a  gratifying  token  of  the 
religious  improvement  which  had  been  gra-  EgUbluhment  of 
dually  making  progress  in  the  patrician  circle  BibiisJJSSyin 
of  society  in  and  around  the  metropolis,  where,  Calcutu- 
thirteen  years  before,  there  had  been  a  larger  attendance 
on  Sundays  at  the  race-course  than  in  the  sanctuary.  This 
movement  was  preceded  by  a  sermon  preached  at  the 
Mission  Church  in  Calcutta  by  the  Rev.  Henry  Martyn,  in 
which  he  advocated  the  claims  of  900,000  Christians  in 
India,  and  urged  the  establishment  of  an  institution  for 
promoting  the  circulation  of  the  Scriptures  among  them, 
and  also  among  the  heathen.  This  estimate  of  the  number 
who  then  bore  the  Christian  name  in  India  was,  however, 
considerably  beyond  the  truth.  The  Christian  population 
has  not  diminished  since  that  period,  but  even  at  the 
present  time  it  is  not  considered  by  the  Roman  Catholics 
themselves  greatly  to  exceed  600,000.  The  sermon  was 
printed  and  widely  circulated  in  Calcutta  and  in  the 
country,  and  a  meeting  was  held  at  the  College  of  Fort 
William,  a  Government  institution,  when  it  was  resolved 
to  establish  a  society,  auxiliary  to  the  British  and  Foreign 
Bible  Society  in  London,  to  aid  the  distribution  of  the 
Bible  in  the  East,  without  note  or  -comment,  and  especially 
to  supply  the  demands  of  the  native  Christians.  Mr. 
Brown,  who  was  the  animating  soul  of  this  movement, 
intended  it  to  supersede  the  Corresponding  Committee  of 
the  Bible  Society  in  Calcutta,  and  to  absorb  its  functions ; 
he  therefore  proposed  to  Dr.  Carey  that  he  and  his  col- 
leagues should  withdraw  from  that  committee,  preparatory 


Digitized  by 


Google 


446  HISTOBY  OF  THE   SBRAMFORE  MISSION.      [Chai».  IX. 

to  its  dissolution.     Dr.  Carey  refused  to  accede  to  this  pro- 
posal ;  he  thought  it  should  be  left  to  the  parent  society, 
whom  the  committee  represented,  to  propose  its  extinction, 
if  it  appeared  desirable.     In  the  course  of  this  conversa- 
tion it  transpired  that,  in  the  opinion  of  Mr.  Brown,  the 
public  would  not  be  likely  to  support  the  new  society  if 
the  Serampore  Missionaries,  or  indeed  any  missionaries, 
were  said  to  be  associated  with  it.     Dr.  Carey  remarked 
that,  if  this  were  the  case,  an  additional  reason  was  furnished 
for  maintaining  the  Corresponding  Committee,  which  was 
extensively  employed  in  providing  Scriptures  for  distri- 
bution among  the  heathen  by  the  agency  of  missionaries. 
But  this  rule  of  exclusion  was  rejected  as  soon  as  it  was 
proposed,  and  it  was  resolved  that  Christian  missionaries 
of  all  persuasions  who  aided  the  society  should  be  entitled 
to  attend  and  vote  at  the  meetings  of  the  committee.     But 
the  Advocate-General,  Mr.  Robert  Percy  Smith,  the  brother 
of  the  celebrated  Sydney  Smith,  objected  to  the  latitude 
of  this  resolution,  and  he  was  conciliated  by  an  official 
avowal  that  the  Auxiliary  Bible  Society  of  Calcutta  had 
no  connection  with  missions.     Mr.  Brown  expected  that 
the  subscription  in  the  first  year  would  reach  10,000Z. 
The  hope  was  fostered  by  some  recent  instances  of  extra- 
ordinary liberality  in  the  European  community.     A  sub- 
scription, for  instance,  had  been  raised  a  few  months 
before  for  the  widow  of  a  merchant,  reduced  to  destitution 
by  his  death,  and  it  soon  amounted  to  8000Z.    An  attorney, 
greatly  esteemed  in  society,  but  so  decided  an  enemy  to 
Christianity  that  he  had  repeatedly  expressed  his  wish 
that  Carey,  Marshman,  and  Ward,  were  hanged  in  the 
Lall  Bazar,  then  the  Tyburn  of  Calcutta,  had  been  thrown 
out  of  his  gig,   and   died  soon  after.     In  a  few  days 
the  public  liberality  created  a  purse  for  his  widow  of 
10,000Z.     But,  notwithstanding  these  instances  of  noble 
generosity  in  an  age  of  large  official  salaries,  and  larger 
mercantile  profits,  it  was  unreasonable  to  expect  similar 
liberality  for  Christian  objects  in  a  community  so  little 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1811.]  HISTOBY  OP  THE  SEBAMPORE   MISSION.  447 

under  the  influence  of  Christian  principle.  The  subscrip- 
tion, however,  did  amount  to  3500/. ;  a  large  sum,  not  so 
much  for  the  resources  as  for  the  feelings  of  the  age. 

The  Serampore  Missionaries,  though  they  had  not  been 
asked  to  assist  in  the  formation  of  the  society,  sent  a 
donation  of  30/.,  as  a  token  of  their  cordial  AtilitancegWen 
approbation  of  its  object ;  and  Mr.  Harington,  iSelSSnjS^ 
the  president,  in  acknowledging  the  contribu-  m$%i6m  Ci* 
tion,  expressed  his  hope  that  they  would  attend  the  meet- 
ings of  the  committee,  and  give  it  the  benefit  of  their 
long  experience.  The  society  soon  had  an  opportunity  of 
estimating  the  value  of  their  aid.  Some  fifteen  years 
before,  the  superintendent  of  the  Government  press  in 
Calcutta,  where  official  papers  were  printed  by  contract, 
was  in  the  habit  of  boasting  that  he  would  not  exchange 
his  post  for  that  of  a  member  of  council,  who  received 
10,000/.  a  year.  The  price  of  printing  had  been  somewhat 
reduced  since  that  time  by  competition ;  but  the  charge 
was  still  so  extravagant  that  the  revenues  of  the  new 
society  would  have  been  exhausted  by  two  versions.  The 
cost  of  printing  an  edition  of  the  Malayalim  Gospels  at 
Bombay,  for  instance,  had  been  1800/.  For  double  the 
number  of  copies  of  the  entire  New  Testament,  the  expense 
would  only  have  been  400/.  at  the  Serampore  press.  The 
Auxiliary  Society  therefore  cordially  accepted  the  offer  of 
the  Serampore  missionaries  to  print  the  Singalese,  the 
Malayalim,  and  the  Tamul  New  Testaments  at  the  same 
economical  rate.  The  Corresponding  Committee  of  the 
Bible  Society  continued  to  prosecute  and,  in  some  measure, 
to  extend  its  operations,  after  the  formation  of  the  Auxiliary 
Society.  At  the  beginning  of  the  present  year  Father 
Sebastiani,  a  Roman  Catholic  Missionary,  who  had  resided 
many  years  in  Persia,  came  round  to  Calcutta  and  applied 
to  the  Serampore  Missionaries  to  print  a  translation  he 
had  made  of  the  New  Testament  into  the  Persian  lan- 
guage. They  thought  the  proposal  came  more  within  the 
scope  of  the  Corresponding.  Committee,  and,  when  it  was 


Digitized  by 


Google 


448  HISTORY   OF  THE   SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  IX. 

brought  forward,  supported  it  with  much  vigour,  and  it 
was  resolved  to  publish  an  edition  from  its  funds,  and  to 
allow  Father  Sebastiani  1500  copies  for  his  own  use  on 
his  supplying  the  paper.  "  If  you  ask,"  says  Dr.  Marsh- 
man,  in  a  letter  to  Mr.  Fuller,  "  why  we  encourage  a  vote 
for  every  translation  which  thus  comes  in  the  way,  we 
reply  that  we  know  the  work  to  be  very  great,  and  we 
have  no  fear  of  its  being  done  too  well  or  too  soon."  Of 
the  translation  itself,  he  says,  "  though  it  be  not  wholly 
free  from  imperfections,  it  will  doubtless  do  much  good." 

The  committee  of  the  Auxiliary  Society  included  men 
of  diverse  creeds,  Protestant,  Roman  Catholic,  and  Ar- 
menian. Mr.  Harington,  the  Judge  of  the 
£jjt°on  Supreme  Native  Court,  was  president,  and  Mr. 
Edmonstone,  Chief  Secretary  to  Government, 
one  of  the  vice-presidents.  The  acceptance  of  these  offices 
by  men  of  the  highest  standing  in  the  public  service,  and 
the  permission  which  had  been  given  to  establish  a  mission 
at  Agra,  which  has  been  already  alluded  to,  indicated  some 
mitigation  of  hostility  to  the  religious  improvement  of  the 
people  of  India;  but,  as  Mr.  Ward  observed,  "  the  sky  was 
still  lowering,  notwithstanding  an  occasional  fine  day." 
The  standing  orders  of  the  Court  for  the  deportation  of  all 
Europeans  found  in  India  without  a  license  still  existed, 
and  might  be  put  in  force  at  any  time  by  the  malevolence 
of  any  officer.  The  London  Missionary  Society  had  sent 
two  missionaries  to  Rangoon,  of  whom  one  died  of  fever, 
and  the  other  came  round  to  Calcutta  at  the  beginning  of 
1811.  He  reported  himself  at  the  police  office,  and  two 
or  three  days  after  was  summoned  to  attend  it,  when 
an  extract  from  a  letter  of  Mr.  Dowdeswell,  now  one 
of  the  secretaries  to  Government,  was  read  to  him,  in 
which  he  was  directed  to  return  to  England  without  delay. 
Mr.  Charles  Fuller  Martyn,  the  police  magistrate  of  Cal- 
cutta, who  was  never  so  much  in  his  element  as  when 
busied  in  worrying  missionaries,  ordered  him  to  fix  a 
definite  period  for  his  departure,  and  allowed  him  a  week 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1811.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SEBAMPORB  MISSION.  449 

for  his  reply.  The  fleet,  however,  had  sailed  for  England, 
and  no  vessel  being  available,  he  was  enabled  for  a  time 
to  evade  the  order  and  continue  at  Seranipore,  where  he 
took  part  in  the  English  services  of  the  missionaries.  At 
length  he  escaped  to  the  Coast,  but  the  Supreme  Govern- 
ment did  not  fail  to  express  its  extreme  displeasure  at  his 
conduct.  It  was  by  a  succession  of  such  occurrences 
that  the  missionaries  at  Serampore  were  reminded  of  the 
precarious  position  of  the  missionary  enterprise.  The 
toleration  they  enjoyed  was  only  by  sufferance,  and  was 
liable  to  be  interrupted  when  any  new  panic  seized  the 
Council  Board,  or  any  subordinate  officer  chose  to  exhibit 
his  ill-will  or  caprice  by  denouncing  the  unlicensed  mis- 
sionary. As  the  period  for  the  Charter  discussions  ap- 
proached, the  xnissionaries  redoubled  their  importunity 
with  Mr.  Fuller,  to  seize  the  golden  opportunity  and 
secure  a  "  legal  toleration  "  for  them  in  India. 

The  Benevolent  Institution,  established  at  the  beginning 
of  the  previous  year,  was  now  reduced  to  such  pecuniary 
straits  as  to  endanger  its  existence.  Lord  Minto 
had  returned  from  the  Coast,  after  having  fj^gsgj^ 
quelled  the  mutiny,  and  Mr.  Marshman  re- 
newed the  discussion  of  the  plan  with  Dr.  Leyden,  who 
promised  to  introduce  it  to  his  notice.  But  difficulties 
arose  regarding  the  management  of  the  Institution.  Dr. 
Leyden  wished  to  vest  it  in  men  who  were  not  likely  to 
look  beyond  the  intellectual  improvement  of  the  scholars ; 
but  Mr.  Marshman  was  anxious  to  make  it  the  instru- 
ment of  moral  and  religious  cultivation.  This  diversity 
of  views  is  thus  described  by  Mr.  Marshman  in  a  letter  to 
Mr.  Fuller : — "  I  told  him  that  we  had  no  objection  to 
patrons,  as  many  as  he  chose,  but  that  we  would  not  part 
with  the  nomination  of  the  teachers,  even  if  we  met  with 
no  support  beyond  our  own  circle. — 'You  talk  wildly; 
why  will  you  not  ? '  c  Because  we  have  no  hope  of  any 
result  from  the  plan  if  good  men  be  not  the  teachers.'  — 
4  Who  are  good  men?'    *  Those  who  depend  on  Christ 

VOL.  I.  G  G 

Digitized  by  VjOOQlC 


450  HISTORY  OF  THE   SEBAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  IX. 

for  salvation,  and  feel  the  necessity  of  a  change  of  heart.' 
— '  In  other  words,  you  wish  to  keep  it  in  the  hands 
of  your  own  party.'  4  We  care  nothing  for  party  in  the 
business ;  I  would  not  for  a  moment  object  to  any  paedo. 
baptist  teacher,  but  he  must  be  a  good  man  ;  no  one  else 
will  care  a  jot  for  the  souls  of  the  children.'  —  *  This  is 
all  nonsense  to  me.'  *  Not  much  to  your  credit,  how- 
ever, and  you  a  man  of  so  much  knowledge;  but  we  will 
never  give  this  up.'  — i  You  are  very  silly  and  unreason- 
able ;  I  am  just  going  to  his  Lordship  about  the  Institu- 
tion.' '  Be  it  so ;  but  we  will  never  swerve  from  this 
point,  whether  you  recommend  it  to  his  Lordship  or  not.' 
—  *  How  silly  you  are  ;  I  see  I  must  do  you  good  against 
your  will.'  ADo  just  as  you  please,  our  minds  are 
fixed.' "  Dr.  Leyden  then  introduced  the  plan  of  the 
Institution  to  Lord  Minto,  and  did  not  fail  to  notice  the 
"  silly  and  unreasonable "  determination  of  Mr.  Marsh- 
man  and  his  colleagues,  which,  however,  Lord  Minto  at 
once  disposed  of  by  saying  that  he  not  only  approved  of 
the  plan,  but  would  quite  as  soon  that  honest  Baptists 
were  teachers  as  any  others.  Dr.  Leyden  then  suggested 
that  the  plan  would  be  ushered  to  the  public  under  favour- 
able auspices,  if  Lord  Minto  would  subjoin  a  few  lines  to 
the  Proposal,  expressive  of  his  approbation  of  the  Institu- 
tion. He  consented  to  do  so,  as  well  as  to  support  it  by 
any  subscription  which  Dr.  Leyden  might  advise.  The 
prospectus  was  left  with  him  for  this  purpose ;  but,  un- 
happily, just  at  this  juncture  his  mind  was  diverted  to 
the  military  and  naval  preparations  for  the  expedition  to 
Java,  and  the  Benevolent  Institution  was  forgotten.  Lord 
Minto  asked  Dr.  Leyden  to  accompany  him  to  the  east- 
ward, and  the  prospect  of  indulging  his  passion  for  lite- 
rary researches,  not  less  than  his  own  adventurous  spirit, 
induced  him  to  accept  the  proposal  with  joy.  Mr.  Marsh- 
man  repeatedly  pressed  him  to  obtain  the  prospectus  back 
from  Lord  Minto  with  his  friendly  opinion  of  it,  but  he 
embarked  without  returning  it.     Mr.  Marshman  felt  no 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1811.]  HISTORY  OF  THE   SERAMPOEB  MISSION.  451 

small  vexation  at  this  disappointment,  for  he  regarded  the 
Benevolent  Institution  with  a  strong  feeling  of  paternity, 
"  This  has  cured  me,"  he  writes  to  Mr.  Fuller,  "  of  de- 
pendence  on  Ley  den.     Had  I  gone  personally  to  Lord 
Minto,  I  should  have  succeeded  better."     But  the  two 
friends,  so  intimately  associated  in  the  common  pursuits 
of  literature,  while  so  discordant  in  their  views  of  religious 
truth,  were  never  to  meet  again.     Three  weeks  after  the 
British  troops  landed  in  Java,  Dr.  Leyden  imprudently 
ventured  into  a  library  which  was  said  to  contain  a  valu- 
able collection  of  Oriental  manuscripts,  and  entered   a 
large  low  room  which  had  not  been  ventilated  for  some 
time,  and  was  at  once  struck  down  with  malaria.     An 
imprudent  confidence  in  the  gigantic  strength  of  his  con- 
stitution led  him  to  reject  all  medical  aid,  and  he  died 
within  three  days,  at  the  early  age  of  thirty-six.     After 
every  deduction  is  made  for  his  spirit  of  self-laudation, 
it  will  not  be  denied  that  no  European  in  India,  since  the 
days  of  Sir  William  Jones,  ever  exhibited  so  insatiable  a 
thirst  for  Oriental  literature,  or  such  extraordinary  power 
of  acquiring  languages,  as  Dr.  Leyden.     His  memory  has 
been  immortalised  by  his  early  friend  and  literary  associate, 
Walter  Scott:— 

"  His  bright  and  brief  career  is  o'er, 

And  mate  his  tuneful  strains. 
Quenched  is  his  lamp  of  varied  lore 
That  loved  the  light  of  song  to  pour ; 
A  distant  and  a  deadly  shore 

Has  Leyden's  cold  remains." 

The  Benevolent  Institution  was  by  this  time  over- 
whelmed with  debt;  the  monthly  subscription  had 
dwindled  down  to  45  Rs.,  while  the  expen- 
diture had  risen  to  310  Rs.  All  hope  of  as-  b^oI^Vimu! 
sistance  from  Lord  Minto's  patronage  had  van- 
ished with  his  embarkation  ;  and  it  was  necessary  to 
appeal  at  once  to  the  public,  or  close  the  establishment. 
Mr.  Marshman  drew  up  a  concise  statement  of  the  object 

O  Q    2 

« 

Digitized  by  VjOOQlC 


452  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPOEE  MISSION.      [Chap.  IX. 

of  the  Institution,  and  of  the  progress  which  had  been 
made,  as  well  as  the  embarrassment  experienced  for  want  of 
funds,  and  circulated  it  among  the  most  influential  gentle- 
men in  Calcutta.  Suddenly  there  arose  a  virulent  op- 
ponent in  the  person  of  the  Rev.  Dr.  James  Ward,  the 
Junior  Presidency  Chaplain,  distinguished  only  by  the 
arrogance  of  his  ecclesiastical  pretensions.  He  had  de- 
nounced the  Auxiliary  Bible  Society,  because  it  afforded 
an  opening  for  the  association  of  Churchmen  and  Dis- 
senters in  the  same  field  of  labour.  He  now  came  for- 
ward and  reprobated,  with  still  greater  acrimony,  the 
plan  of  an  educational  institution,  unconnected  with  the 
Established  Church,  and  promoted  by  sectaries  and 
schismatics.  This  was  the  first  instance  since  the  foun- 
dation of  Calcutta,  a  century  and  a  quarter  before,  in  which 
any  controversy  had  arisen  out  of  the  differences  of  Church 
and  Dissent.  Sectarian  distinctions  were  scarcely  known 
in  India,  where  the  only  idea  of  religious  antagonism 
which  had  ever  been  recognised,  was  the  broad  contrast  of 
Christianity  and  Paganism.  In  a  country  where  a  gentle- 
man's cook  was  generally  a  Bouddist  or  a  Roman  Catholic, 
and  his  domestics  either  Mahomedans  or  Pagans,  there 
was  little  room  for  the  development  of  Church  principles, 
and  the  religious  animosities  of  England  were  happily 
unknown.  Dr.  Ward's  address  fell  upon  the  ears  of  men 
altogether  unaccustomed  to  such  sounds,  and  utterly 
regardless  of  his  object.  His  personal  demeanour  had 
been  marked  by  so  much  professional  assumption,  that  he 
was  no  favourite  either  with  the  laity  or  with  his  own 
ministerial  brethren,  and  his  attack  on  the  missionaries, 
as  Nonconformists,  was  received  with  contemptuous  in- 
difference. Mr.  Brown,  his  colleague  at  the  Presidency 
Church,  was  more  strongly  united  to  the  missionaries  in 
evangelical  sentiments  than  with  Dr.  Ward  by  clerical 
associations.  On  reading  his  address  in  the  papers,  he 
wrote  to  Mr.  Marshman,  "  I  send  you  the  c  Calcutta  Ga- 
zette/ containing  Dr.  Ward's  attack  on  you.     You  know 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1811.]  HISTORY  OF  THE   SERAMPORB  MISSION.  453 

my  opinion  both  of  your  attempt,  and  of  the  Free  School, 
and  of  all  similar  institutions.  I  am,  therefore,  an  indif- 
ferent spectator  on  this  occasion.  I  know  you  love  war, 
and  will  like  to  skirmish,  as  something  may  be  gained  by 
it.  I  must  say  one  thing  in  favour  of  Dr.  Ward ;  he  is 
a  fair  and  open  enemy,  and  has  given  you  great  advan- 
tage by  his  mode  of  attack,  which  you  will  no  doubt  im- 
prove by  a  moderate  reply,  appealing,  in  the  fewest  words 
possible  to  the  good  sense,  humanity,  and  public  spirit  of 
society.  If  they  say  you  are  to  blame  in  offering  to 
instruct  those  destitute  of  all  the  means  of  instruction,  then 
you  are  willing  to  lay  down  the  plan  so  charitably  con- 
ceived by  you.  With  my  heart  I  wish  you  success  in 
this  warfare.     I  am,  ever  yours  most  sincerely,  D.  B." 

Mr.  Thomason,  the  chaplain  at  the  Mission  Chuiteh, 
wrote  to  his  friends  at  Serampore,  "  If  Dr.  Ward's  repu- 
tation had  stood  high,  it  might  have  done  you 

•     •  .,      •  t       mi  -I  ..     •       Opposition  to  the 

an  injury ;  as  it  is,- people  will  only  say,  it  is  Benevolent  iniu- 
like  the  man,  and  dismiss  the  matter ;  and  the 
good  cause  will  prosper."  Mr.  Marshman  drew  up  a 
brief  statement  of  the  plan  of  the  Institution,  and  dwelt 
emphatically  on  the  necessity  of  establishing  it  in  a  place 
like  Calcutta;  clothing  his  appeal,  as  he  said,  "in  the 
softest  terms."  This  paper  he  sent  for  the  revision  of 
Mr.  Brown,  who  expressed  his  approbation  of  it,  and  it 
was  published  in  the  most  influential  journals  in  Calcutta. 
On  perusing  it,  Mr.  Thomason  wrote  to  him,  "  Nothing  can 
be  more  convincing  and  engaging  than  your  appeal  to  the 
public.  Let  the  papers  circulate  it  through  the  land. 
You  will  gain  more  from  Dr.  Ward's  opposition  than  from 
his  friendship.  .Affectionately  yours,  T.  T."  Dr.  Ward, 
finding  that  he  had  made  no  impression  on  the  public  by 
his  first  address,  now  enlisted  the  Churchwardens  of  St. 
John's,  who  were  ex-officio  Governors  of  the  Free  School, 
in  the  cause,  and  issued  a  second  paper  under  their  joint 
signatures,  entreating  the  public  not  to  desert  an  institu- 
tion connected  with  the  Church  of  England  for  one  set  up 

G  o    3 


Digitized  by 


Google 


454  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPOKE  MISSION.      [Chap.  IX. 

by  Dissenters ;  but  neither  did  this  address  advance  his 
purpose,  nor  check  the  tide  of  subscriptions  to  the  Bene- 
volent Institution,  which  seemed  to  rise  in  exact  proportion 
to  the  efforts  made  to  obstruct  it.  Finding  that  he  could 
make  no  way  even  with  the  help  of  the  Vestry,  Dr.  Ward 
proceeded  to  address  Government  officially,  requesting 
its  interference  to  suppress  the  Benevolent  Institution,  and 
uphold  the  Church.  On  hearing  accidentally  of  this  de- 
sign, Mr.  Marshman  drew  up  a  more  elaborate  statement 
on  the  subject,  demonstrating  that  the  objects  of  the  two 
establishments  were  so  different  in  character,  that  there 
could  not  possibly  be  any  clashing  of  interests ;  that  the 
Benevolent  Institution  received  only  day  scholars,  while 
the  Free  School  boarded  as  well  as  educated  its  pupils  ;  and 
that  the  object  of  the  Institution  was  to  pick  up  the 
ragged  children  wandering  about  the  streets  of  Calcutta, 
for  whom  there  was  no  accommodation  in  the  older  semi- 
nary, and  to  rescue  them  from  the  dominion  of  ignorance 
and  vice.  This  document  was  sent  to  all  the  newspapers 
in  Calcutta,  and  as  the  censorship  was  in  full  vigour,  and 
the  Secretary  to  Government  was  obliged  to  read  over  every 
article  before  he  endorsed  it  with  his  imprimatur,  or  drew 
his  fatal  pen  across  it,  the  arguments  in  favour  of  the  Insti- 
tution were  thus  placed  vividly  before  the  most  influential 
member  of  Government  before  Dr.  Ward's  proposal  was 
discussed  at  the  Council  Board.  It  was  at  once  rejected  ; 
and  the  Secretary  was  desired  to  inform  Dr.  Ward  that 
Government  declined  to  interfere  in  the  matter.  Nothing 
could  have  been  more  opportune  for  the  Se- 

Benefit  of  it.  .  .  i  i  •  i  • 

rampore  missionaries  than  this  abortive  at- 
tempt to  put  down  the  school.  The  interest  created  by 
the  dispute  was  naturally  transferred  to  the  institution 
itself,  which  thus  became  accredited  to  Government,  and 
universally  known  throughout  the  country.  All  fears  re* 
garding  its  support  were  at  once  removed.  In  the  first 
year  of  its  feeble  existence,  the  contributions  of  the  public 
amounted  to  only  48/.     Dr.  Ward's  opposition  opened  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1811.]  HISTORY  OF  THE   SERAMPORE  MISSION.  455 

public  purse,  and  brought  in  5001.  "  As  we  were  happily 
kept/'  writes,  Mr.  Marshman,  "from  using  one  intem- 
perate expression,  the  public  have  given  us  as  much  credit 
for  temper  and  patience  as  for  benevolence  of  intention, 
and  the  Institution  is  left  by  common  suffrage  under  the 
sole  direction  of  Carey,  Marshman,  and  Ward."  The 
number  of  scholars  was  increased  to  more  than  two 
hundred,  and  the  encouragement  the  missionaries  received 
from  the  public  emboldened  them  to  purchase  a  piece  of 
ground  in  the  heart  of  the  city,  and  to  commence  the 
erection  of  a  spacious  school-room  capable  of  accom- 
modating eight  hundred  children.  The  expense  of  this 
building,  about  1200Z.,  they  defrayed  from  their  own 
funds,  charging  a  moderate  rent  for  it  to  the  Institution. 
This  narrative  has  led  us  rather  beyond  the  limits  of  the 
year  under  notice,  to  the  remaining  events  of  which  we 
now  turn. 

The  mission  to  Bootan  was  now  finally  relinquished, 
after  three  years  of  fruitless  labour  and  expense.  In  the 
previous  year  Mr.  Robinson  renewed  his  at- 
tempt to  obtain  a  footing  on  the  frontier,  and  otJjmiAJSEto 
was  diligently  employed  for  four  months  in 
studying  the  language  and  erecting  a  dwelling.  But  the 
locality  was  the  hotbed  of  malaria  throughout  the  rains. 
When  the  rainy  season,  therefore,  set  in,  he  was  at  once 
prostrated  by  a  fever,  from  which  he  had  no  sooner  re- 
covered than  his  children,  and  then  his  wife,  were  attacked 
with  it.  He  conveyed  her  to  the  nearest  station  at  Dina- 
gepore  for  medical  advice,  but  she  sunk  under  the  attack. 
In  this  state  of  desolation,  he  received  intelligence  that 
his  house  had  been  robbed,  and  that  all  his  apparel  was 
lost.  He  returned  to  Serampore  to  consult  his  brethren 
on  the  propriety  of  continuing  to  prosecute  the  plan  of  a 
mission  in  so  unpromising  a  sphere.  But  Dr.  Carey,  in 
whose  mind  the  extension  of  the  mission  and  the  transla- 
tion of  the  Scriptures  were  ever  uppermost,  vehemently 
opposed  the  idea  of  abandoning  Bootan  as  a  field  of  mis- 

G  o   4 


Digitized  by 


Google 


456  HISTORY  OF  THE  SBBAMPORB  MISSION.      [Chap.  IX. 

sioDary  operations,  and  in  that  spirit  of  stern  persever- 
ance which  distinguished  his  character,  urged  one  more 
attempt.  Mr.  Robinson,  therefore,  left  Serampore  for  the 
station  in  December,  1810,  accompanied  by  Mr.  Cornish. 
On  reaching  their  destination,  Mr.  Robinson's  fever  re- 
turned, though  in  a  milder  form ;  but  he  was  resolved  to 
persevere,  and,  having  procured  a  moonshee,  resumed  the 
study  of  the  language.  But  on  the  night  of  the  25th  of 
January,  the  house  of  the  missionaries,  at  Barbaree,  was 
attacked  by  a  large  gang  of  dacoits,  who  killed  two  of 
the  servants  and  maintained  a  hand-to-hand  conflict  with 
Mr.  Robinson  and  Mr.  Cornish,  both  of  whom  were 
wounded  in  several  places,  and  obliged  to  fly  for  safety 
with  their  families  to  a  neighbouring  field.  The  next 
morning  they  found  that  the  robbers  had  rifled  the  house 
of  everything  they  could  carry  off,  and  destroyed  what 
they  were  obliged  to  leave.  This  fresh  calamity  produced 
another  reference  to  Serampore ;  but  Dr.  Carey  and  his 
colleagues  were  even  now  unwilling  to  give  up  the  enter- 
prise, and  advised  Mr.  Robinson  to  attempt  to  form  a  set- 
tlement in  the  country  itself,  instead  of  continuing  on  the 
frontier,  which  is  always  the  most  exposed  to  danger. 
He  accordingly  wrote  to  the  Deb  Raja,  formally  requesting 
leave  to  reside  in  Bootan,  and  study  the  language,  and  he 
determined  that  his  future  course  should,  without  any 
further  hesitation,  be  regulated  by  the  reply.  It  came 
about  the  beginning  of  May,  and  at  once  extinguished  all 
his  hopes.  The  Raja  said,  "  How  can  any  Sahibs  stay  in 
Bootan?  They  are  great  people,  and  to  let  them  remain 
in  my  country  is  not  good,  as  I  know  not  if  they  will  do 
good  or  harm."  This  reply  closed  the  door  on  all  mis- 
sionary efforts  for  the  time  in  Bootan.  Mr.  Robinson  re- 
turned  to  Serampore,  and  Mr.  Raffles,  having  strongly 
urged  on  Mr.  Marshman  the  establishment  of  a  mission  in 
the  island  of  Java  whenever  it  came  into  the  possession  of 
the  British  Government,  Mr.  Robinson  held  himself  in 
readiness  to  proceed  to  the  island.      At  the  same  time  he 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1811.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPOBE  MISSION.  457 

made  an  express  stipulation  that  he  should  not  embark 
in  the  work  alone,  and  that  one  of  the  missionaries  then 
expected  from  England  should  be  sent  to  join  him.  This 
hankering  after  European  society,  when  the  work  of  the 
mission  lay  among  the  heathen,  was  very  repugnant  to  the 
views  of  Dr.  Carey,  who  had  originally  determined  to 
bury  himself  among  the  natives,  and  had  passed  six  years 
of  his  life  surrounded  by  them  alone.  "When  I  see 
indigo  manufacturers,"  he  writes  to  Mr.  Fuller,  "and 
military  men  suffering  privations  and  braving  dangers  for 
an  inferior  object,  and  others  settled  singly  all  over  the 
country,  I  confess  I  think  it  a  great  waste  to  send  two 
European  brethren  to  any  station  in  Bengal,  especially  as 
a  person  can  scarcely  go  in  any  direction  without  finding 
a  European."  Yet  after  fifty  years  of  experience,  it  is 
the  general  opinion  of  all  missionary  bodies,  that  to  leave 
a  station  dependent  on  a  single  missionary  is  highly 
inexpedient. 

Mr.  Cornish  relinquished  the  mission  at  once.  The 
remembrance  of  the  night  of  the  robbery,  and  of  the  pri- 
vations he  had  suffered,  quenched  all  his  mis-  The  ^^ 
sionary  ardour,  and  he  turned  from  Barbaree  ^JSSSlff^ 
as  Pliable  from  the  Slough  of  Despond,  and  re-  country* 
sumed  his  secular  employments,  though  not  without  the 
full  concurrence  of  the  Serampore  missionaries.  It  was 
one  of  the  advantages  attending  the  system  they  had  been 
constrained  to  adopt  of  sending  into  the  missionary  field 
the  young  men  whom  they  found  in  the  country,  that  in 
every  case  of  disappointment,  when  the  young  missionary 
broke  down  in  the  training,  and  appeared  unequal  to  the 
race,  his  connection  with  the  mission  was  dissolved,  and 
missionary  funds  were  relieved  from  the  burden  of  his 
support.  On  the  other  hand,  it  was  one  of  the  most 
serious  disadvantages  arising  out  of  the  appointment  of 
missionaries  from  England,  that  they  continued  to  en- 
cumber the  resources  of  the  Society  long  after  it  became 
palpable  that  they  could  never  afford  any  real  assistance 


Digitized  by 


Google 


458  HISTOBY  OP  THE   SERAMPORB  MISSION.      [Chap.  IX. 

to  the  cause.     Of  the  missionaries  sent  out  by  the  Society 
—  with  the  exception  of  the  three  at  Serampore  —  eight 
were  still,  after  the  early  casualties,  on  its  roll ;  but  one  half 
of  them  ought  never  to  have  embarked  in  labours  for 
which  they  were  totally  unsuited.     In  reference  to  one  of 
them,  Mr.  Ward  writes  to  Mr.  Fuller,  "  He  translates  in 
none  of  the  languages ;  he  has  attempted  no  language  but 
the  Bengalee,  and  in  this,  I  fear,  he  will  never  be  worth  a 
straw.     He  makes  one  blush  every  time  he  endeavours  to 
speak  in  this  language,  and  as  to  his  hearers  profiting  by 
this  jargon,  it  is  out  of  the  question."    Of  two  of  them  Dr. 
Carey  writes  in  this  year,  "  They  will  do  nothing,  and  can 
do  nothing,"  yet  they  continued  on  the  missionary  funds  for 
many  years,  while  Mr.  Cornish  retired  from  the  mission  as 
soon  as  his  inefficiency  became  manifest.     The  same  diffi- 
culty is  felt  by  missionary  societies  as  by  other  bodies,  re- 
garding the  removal  of  men  who  are  simply  incompetent  to 
the  task  assigned  to  them,  without  being  chargeable  with 
any  act  of  glaring  impropriety.    To  the  same  effect  is  the 
following  remark  in  one  of  Mr.  Brown's  letters  to  Mr. 
Marshman :  "  I  am  convinced  Fuller  ought  to  have  come 
out.   Weakness  ruined  the  missionary  efforts  of  the  London 
Missionary  Society,  and  weakness  would  have  ruined  yours, 
if  Carey,  yourself,  and  Ward  had  not  been  providentially 
in  the  way.     You  a&lz  for  forty  missionaries ;  I  ask  tor  Jive 
such  as  yourselves.     I  deprecate  an  influx  of  unlearned 
missionaries,  who  would  make  good  itinerating  mission- 
aries at  home,  but  will  never  strike  a  stroke  here.     You 
have  a  host  of  such  already.     Believe  me  that  I  wish  you 
all  prosperity  in  the  Lord,  and  can  truly  say,  'Give  me  a 
place  at  thy  saints'  feet.' — Your  affectionate  friend  and 
servant,  D.  B." 

However  unpalatable  the  truth,  it  ought  not  to  be  over- 
looked, that  there  are  few  situations  in  which  the  realisation 
Reflections  on  the  °f  hopes  has  been  so  uncertain  as  in  the  ap- 
mbject.  pointment  of  missionaries  to  the  heathen.     If 

the  expression  be  not  profane,  it  appears  to  partake  of  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1811.]  HISTORY   OF  THE   SERAMPORE   MISSIQN.  459 

chances  of  a  lottery.     It  is  not  possible  for  the  most  con- 
scientious and  discerning  committee  in  England  to  foresee 
how  missionaries,  who  may  have  been  selected  apparently 
with  much  judgment  and  prudence,  will  turn  out  when 
they  enter  on  the  field  of  labour  abroad.     With  the  best 
disposition  to  render  themselves  useful,  they  may  possess 
no  natural  aptitude  for  labours  of  so  peculiar  a  character, 
and  continue  to  be  amiable,  pious,  and  expensive  drones 
for  many  years ;  or  they  may  be  pining  for  the  solace  of 
those  religious  associations  which  they  enjoyed  in  England, 
and  thus  become  gloomy  and  valueless ;  or,  a  weak  frame 
may  disqualify  them  for  active  duties  and  depress  their 
spirits  ;  or  an  undue  preponderance  of  the  domestic  affec- 
tions may  give  an  unmissionary  cast  to  the  feelings,  and 
concentrate  every  sympathy  on  their  own  family  circle ;  or 
there  may  be  a  want  of  that  spring  of  elasticity  which 
a  work  subject  to  such  various  disappointments  requires. 
Whenever,  from  any  of  these  causes,  a  missionary  finds 
that  he  cannot  throw  his  whole  soul  into  the  work,  and 
that  he  remains  in  it  because  it  is  his  profession,  it  is 
better  for  him  at  once  to  retire  from  the  field  and  betake 
himself  to  pastoral  duties  at  home.     In  such  cases  a  mis* 
sionary  Society,  far  from  regretting  the  funds  lost  in  the 
outfit  and  voyage  of  one  who  thus  proves  to  be  a  mis- 
sionary failure,  and  returns  to  England,  ought  rather  to 
congratulate    itself    on    the    larger    funds    which    are 
prospectively  saved  by  this  early  separation.     It  was  in 
the  contemplation  of  such  disappointments  that  Mr.  Ward 
wrote  to  Mr.  Fuller,  "  In  our  work,  half  the  Dissenting 
ministers  in  England,  who  merely  preach  twice  or  thrice 
a  week,  when  people  come  to  hear  the  Word,  would  be  of 
little  use.     A  man  who  shall  do  good  here  must  be  on  his 
legs,  or  in  the  saddle,  or  in  his  boat.     In  the  hands  of  a 
mere  domesticated  man,  who  prays  at  home,  but  never  goes 
out  into  the  highways  and  ditches,  things  die  a  natural 
death.     Men  must  go  out  a  fishing ;  the  fish  will  never 
leave  their  natural  element  and  walk  into  their  nets,  and 


Digitized  by 


Google 


460  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.       [Chap.  EL 

they  must  be  patient  too,  though  they  toil  all  night  and 
catch  nothing." 

During  the  present  year  the  Church  at  'Serampore  re- 
turned to  the  practice  of  strict  communion,  after  having, 
church  at  se-  f°r  f°ur  years,  adopted  the  opposite  rule  of  ad- 
J?5C5  cSS?1    mitting  to  their  communion  those  Christian  and 

amnion.  •      •  v        ,v  1  J"J1  j_  -         •  1        • 

missionary  brethren  who  did  not  coincide  in 
their  views  of  the  ordinance  of  baptism.     The  chief  agent 
in  this   movement   was   Mr.  Marshman.      Mr.  Fuller,  a 
Staunch  strict-communionist,  had  for  some  time  engaged 
in  a  controversial  correspondence  with  Mr.  Ward  on  this 
question.     Mr.  Ward  brought  it  to  a  close  by  stating  that 
he  was  not  convinced  by  his  reasoning,  and  that,  in  his 
judgment,   men  might  fall  into  mistakes  regarding   not 
only  common  commands,  but  "  positive  institutions/'  and 
yet  not  incur  a  forfeiture  of  the  right  of  communion :  but 
he  thought  the  matter  one  of  very  small  moment  compared 
with  the  great  work  of  evangelising  the  heathen.     Mr. 
Marshman,  however,  appears  to  have  been  convinced  by 
Mr.  Fuller's  arguments,  and  transmitted  his  own  views  on 
the  subject  in  a  very  elaborate  epistle.     But  he  hesitated 
long  to  bring  the  question  forward  in  a  practical  shape, 
lest  he   should  wound  the  feelings   of   his  affectionate 
colleague.     At  length  he  communicated  his  thoughts  to 
Mr.  Ward  by  letter,  and  proposed  that  the  Church  at 
Serampore  should  resume  its  former  principle   on   the 
subject  of  communion,  stating  that  he  was  willing  to  take 
on  himself  the  responsibility  and  the  odium  of  announcing 
this  change  of  practice  to  those  who  had  hitherto  communed 
with  them.     On  the  spur  of  the  moment,  Mr.  Ward  re- 
plied  that  he  would  rather  die  than  go  into  such  a  mea- 
sure.    Dr.  Carey's  mind  was  not  free  from  doubt ;  but 
he  thought  strict  communion  the   "safer"   side.      The 
other  missionaries  at  Serampore  were  disposed  to  coin- 
cide with  him  and  Mr.  Marshman ;  and  Mr.  Ward,  with 
his  habitual  sweetness  of  disposition,  said  he  should  offer 
no  further  opposition,  and  make  no  attempt  to  divide  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1811.]  HISTORY  OF  THE   SERAMPORB   MISSION.  461 

Church ;  only  he  wished  it  to  be  distinctly  known  to  all 
whom  the  decision  might  affect,  that  the  change  was  not 
made  with  his  consent.     In  recording  the  event  in  his 
own  journal,  he  remarked:  " Mr.  Pritchett," — the  Inde- 
pendent missionary  formerly  alluded  to, — "preached  in 
the  morning ;  after  which  Brother  Marshman  interdicted 
him  the  Lord's  table."     But  this  wide  and  irreconcileable 
difference  of  opinion  was  never  suffered  to  produce  the 
slightest  alienation  of  feeling,  or  to  interrupt  the  harmony 
of   their  co-operation.      This  was,   moreover,   the   only 
question  on  which  any  feeling  of  discordance  ever  arose 
between  the  missionaries  at  Serampore  and  the  two  leading 
members  of  the  Committee  in  England.     Mr.  Fuller  and 
Dr.  Ryland  held  very  strong  and  opposite  opinions  on 
this  subject,  and  it  was  difficult  for  their  friends  at  Se- 
rampore to  steer  between  the  Scylla  and  Charybdis  of 
strict  and  open  communion.     When  they  went  into  the 
practice  of  open  communion,  Mr.  Fuller  upbraided  them 
with  their  disregard  of  a  "positive  ordinance;"  but  his 
language,  though  earnest,  was  always  kind  and  dignified. 
But  when  the  church  returned  to  the  rule  of  strict  com- 
munion, Dr.  Ryland  was  exasperated  beyond  measure,  and 
gave  vent  to  his  indignation  in  the  strongest  language, 
upbraiding  Mr.  Marshman,  sometimes  in  doggerel  verses, 
with  having  set  up  a  "Baptist  caste."    Some  of  his  remarks 
wind  up  with  a  dozen  notes  of  admiration^    It  is  a  lament- 
able token  of  the  weakness  of  human  nature,  that  a  ques- 
tion of  such  comparative  insignificance  should  have  been 
allowed  to  embitter  the  intercourse  of  men  engaged  in  a 
great  work  sufficient  to  absorb  every  inferior  thought. 

The  prejudices  of  the  eight  junior  missionaries  against 
the  three  seniors,  at  this  period,  rendered  the  management 
of  the  mission  a  task  of  no  ordinary 'difficulty.  Different 
Now  that  the  remonstrants  and  the  accused  ^T^^funior 

_  _  _  Missionaries. 

have  all  passed  from  the  scene,  and  we  are 

enabled  to  examine  these  transactions  in  the  impartial 

spirit  of  history,  apart  from  the  mists  of  passion  or  pre- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


462  HISTORY  OF   THE  SEBAMPORE  MISSION.       [Chap.  IX 

judice,  concessions  may  be  freely  made  which,  during  the 
heat  of  controversy,  might  have  been  considered   injudi- 
cious, as  affording  an  undue  triumph  to  opponents.    There 
can  be  no  doubt,  that  the  economy  which  was  then  con- 
sidered essential  to  the  prosecution  of  the  mission  was 
erroneous  in  principle  and  objectionable  in  practice,  and 
that  it  generated  hostility  more  than  it  promoted  effi- 
ciency.    The  senior  missionaries  started  with  a  constitu- 
tion of  the  most  democratic  character,  and  introduced 
into  their  system  a  principle  of  the  most  perilous  equality. 
The  mission,  assaulted  from  without  by  the  hostility  of 
Government,  was  perhaps  still  more  endangered  by  intes- 
tine faction   and  discord.     Dr.  Ryland   reprobated   the 
system  with  unmitigated  severity,  and  Mr.  Fuller  put  an 
end   to  it   by  peremptorily  appointing  Dr.  Carey,   Mr. 
Marshman,  and  Mr.  Ward  directors  of  the  mission  for  life. 
But  those  who  had  been  accustomed  to  the  license  of 
freedom  in  the  little  republic  at  Serampore,  could  ill  brook 
the  subordination  under  which  they  were  placed.    There  is 
reason  to   fear   that    the    authority  thus  vested  in   the 
senior  missionaries  was  sometimes  exercised  with  no  in- 
considerable sternness.    The  principle  of  rigorous  economy, 
which  they  adopted  themselves  and  enforced  on  others, 
was  felt  to  be  insupportably  irksome,  and  they  often 
exposed  themselves  to  the  imputation  of  great  unkindness. 
The  restraints  imposed  on  the  juniors  were  unnatural  and 
irritating,  and  they  gave  vent  to  their  embittered  feelings 
in  complaints  loud  and  deep,  and  not  always  unfounded. 
To  soften  these  asperities,  the  senior  missionaries  made 
the  brethren  at  the  out-stations  independent  of  them  in  all 
pecuniary  matters,  and  rendered  them  accountable  imme- 
diately to  the  Society.     But  there  were  too  many  points 
of  friction  still  left  to  remove  all  cause  of  asperity  of 
feeling,    and    remonstrances  were    made,   though    with 
decreasing  vigour,  down  to  the  period  when,  on  the  death 
of  Mr.  Fuller,  the  Serampore  missionaries  were  enabled  to 
resign  the  invidious  office  which  he  had  forced  on  them. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1811.]  HISTOBY  OF  THE   SERAMPORE   MISSION.  463 

These  differences  between  the  juniors  and  the  seniors 
were  aggravated  by  tempers  which  in  some  cases  were 
impracticable,  and  in  one  instance  absolutely  ungovern- 
able. Indeed  some  of  the  charges  brought  against  the  Se- 
rampore  missionaries,  in  the  warmth  of  exasperation,  were 
so  atrocious  as  to  carry  with  them  their  own  refutation. 
But  there  is  the  evidence  of  the  last  survivor  of  the  eight 
missionaries,  that  it  was  "the  discipline  under  which  they 
were  placed  which  was  felt  to  be  so  painful,"  and  "  that 
in  proportion  as  that  discipline  was  relaxed  their  complaints 
were  removed,  while  they  still  loved  the  Serampore  mis- 
sionaries as  brethren,  and  respected  them  as  their  seniors." 
He  has  left  on  record  that  it  was  never  the  aim  of  the 
seniors  to  render  their  juniors  miserable,  but  that  they 
had  from  inexperience  adopted  a  vicious  system,  which 
they  gradually  abandoned,  as  experience  opened  their 
eyes  to  its  evils,  and  that  all  those  who  had  remonstrated 
against  the  effects  of  the  system,  even  in  the  most  virulent 
language,  maintained  the  most  friendly  intercourse  with 
their  Serampore  brethren,  after  it  had  been  corrected. 

Although  the  immediate  management  of  those  pecuniary 
affairs  which  brought  the  junior  missionaries  into  un- 
pleasant contact  with  their  senior  brethren,  Dr.  Carev.g  e8ti. 
devolved  on  Mr.  Ward,  yet  the  spirit  of  hosti-  ffiiLSZ 
lity  appears  to  have  been  somewhat  arbitrarily 
directed  against  Mr.  Marshman,  and  numerous  were  the 
complaints  which  were  made  in  letters  to  Mr.  Fuller,  who 
was  at  length  compelled  to  allude  to  the  subject  in  one  of 
his  communications  to  Dr.  Carey.  It  was  in  reference  to 
these  sinister  representations  that  Dr.  Carey  felt  himself 
bound  to  undertake  the  defence  of  his  friend,  who  was 
not  aware  of  the  existence  of  his  letter  till  he  accidentally 
discovered  it  in  England  fifteen  years  after  it  had  been 
written.  It  is  interesting  as  affording  a  view  of  Mr. 
Marshman's  character  by  one  who  was  in  the  habit  of 
daily  and  confidential  intercourse  with  him.  "  I  do  not 
know  that  the  junior  brethren  have  any  settled  prejudice 


Digitized  by 


Google 


464  HISTORY  OF  .THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION,      [Chap.  IX. 

against  him,  yet  a  suspicion  against  him  is,  I  must  con- 
fess, soon  excited.  I  believe  his  natural  make  is  the 
occasion  of  it.  He  is  a  man  whose  whole  heart  is  in  the 
mission,  and  who  may  be  considered  as  the  soul  and  life 
of  it.  He  is  ardent,  nay  sanguine,  exceedingly  tenacious 
of  any  idea  which  strikes  him  as  right  or  important.  His 
labours  are  excessive,  his  body  scarcely  susceptible  of 
fatigue,  his  religious  feelings  strong,  his  jealousy  for  God 
great;  his  regard  for  the  feelings  of  others  very  little 
when  the  cause  of  God  is  in  question.  His  memory  is 
uncommonly  retentive  ;  his  reading  has  been  and  still  is 
extensive  and  general ;  in  short,  his  activity  reproaches  the 
indolence  of  some,  his  acquirements  reproach  their  ignor- 
ance, and  his  unaccommodating  mind  frequently  excites 
sentiments  of  resentment  and  dislike.  He  has  also,  perhaps, 
the  foible  of  dragging  himself  and  his  children  more  into 
public  observation  than  is  desirable.  These  things,  I 
suppose,  lie  at  the  bottom  of  all  the  dislike  which  our 
younger  brethren  have  felt  for  him.  For  my  own  part  I 
consider  him  as  a  man  whose  value  in  the  mission  can 
scarcely  be  sufficiently  appreciated,  and  his  death  would 
be  a  serious  loss  to  the  undertaking."  At  this  time,  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Marshman  were  in  the  receipt  of  a  clear  income 
of  2000Z.  a  year  from  the  school,  of  which  they  reserved 
only  about  100Z.  for  the  contingent  expenses  of  the  family, 
and  threw  the  remainder  into  the  general  funds  of  the 
mission,  dining  at  one  common  table  with  the  other  mis- 
sionaries. But  while  he  and  his  two  brethren,  who  were 
equally  in  a  position  of  independence,  exhibited  such  self- 
denial  in  the  prosecution  of  the  missionary  cause,  they 
were  not  insensible  to  the  claims  of  filial  affection.  Iii 
the  course  of  the  year,  Mr.  Marshman  wrote  to  Mr. 
Mr.  Mar.hman't  Fuller,  "I  am  commissioned  by  my  brethren  to 
fetb«r.  state  ^^  whiie  thus  devoting  themselves  and 

all  their  resources  to  the  cause  of  missions,  they  con- 
sider it  a  duty  still  incumbent  on  them  to  provide  for 
their  own  aged  or  infirm  relatives  at  home.     We  do  not 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1811.]  HISTORY  OP  THE  SBBAMPORB  MISSION.  465 

consider  it  robbing  the  cause  of  God,  if  from  the  surplus 
of  our  labours  we  devote  a  sum,  to  be  settled  by  mutual 
consent  here,  to  the  relief  and  comfort  of  those  who  gave 
us  life,  and  we  beg  you  will  deduct  these  sums  from  the 
remittances  you  send  out  either  for  the  mission  or  the 
translations,  and  we  will  make  it  good  to  those  funds. 
To  my  honoured  father,  who,  before  this  can  reach  you, 
will  have  reached  his  seventy-third  year,  and  to  my 
beloved  mother  who  will  have  reached  her  seventy-ninth 
year,  we  wish  you  to  pay  fifty  pounds  a  year.  After  so 
long  a  career  of  the  most  laborious  and  spirited  exertions 
to  rear  his  family  with  honour  to  religion,  and  to  discharge 
the  duties  incumbent  on  him  as  a  member  of  society,  and 
a  deacon  of  the  Church  of  Christ,  it  is  my  desire  that  he 
should  cease  from  his  labours,  and  pass  the  few  days  he 
will  have  to  sojourn  here  below  in  a  state  of  ease.  I 
think  this  is  no  more  than  an  act  of  justice  on  my  part,  for 
if  I  have  anything  of  industry,  I  owe  it  to  his  example  and 
wise  counsels,  with  whom  I  spent  the  first  twenty-five 
years  of  my  life." 

Mr.  Marshman's  literary  labours  had  attracted  much 
attention  in  America,  and  in  the  month  of  June  he  was 
honoured  with  the  diploma  of  Doctor  of  Divi- 
nity from  Brown  University.  But  the  literary  £cei ««£ 
achievements  which  had  obtained  for  the  senior 
missionaries  this  distinguished  recognition,  were  entirely 
subservient  to  the  missionary  exertions  in  which  they  were 
engaged.  They  regarded  it  as  the  duty  of  a  missionary 
to  obtain  as  complete  a  knowledge  as  possible  of  the 
language  and  the  religious  institutions,  the  literature,  and 
the  philosophy  of  the  people  among  whom  he  laboured, 
and  to  leave  a  record  of  his  acquisitions,  through  the 
medium  of  the  press,  for  the  benefit  of  his  successors. 
They  considered  that  every  contribution  to  this  store  of 
knowledge  was  an  additional  facility  for  the  prosecution 
of  missionary  labours,  and  they  were  anxious  that  these 
researches  should  go  hand-in-hahd  with  the  communication 

VOL.  I.  H  H 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


466  HISTORY  OF  THE  8ERAMPORE  MISSION.       [Chap.  IX. 

of  secular  and  divine  truth  to  the  people.  They  therefore 
inculcated  on  every  missionary  the  necessity  of  cultivating 
the  literature  of  the  country  in  which  he  resided,  as  fer 
as  it  could  he  effected  without  relaxing  his  efforts  to 
communicate  the  Gospel  to  the  people.  This  precept  was 
enforced  by  their  own  example.  Mr.  Ward,  amidst  all  his 
missionary  labours,  was  still  able  to  create  time  for  com- 
piling his  work  on  the  history,  literature,  and  religion  of 
the  Hindoos,  to  which  allusion  has  already  been  made. 
Dr.  Marshman's  attention  had  been  given  more  particu- 
larly to  the  Chinese,  and  while  he  was  employed  in  the 
translation  of  the  Scriptures,  he  bestowed  on  his  own 
countrymen  the  first  translation  of  the  works  of  the  great 
Chinese  sage,  and  the  only  treatise  which  had  then  ap- 
peared on  the  structure  of  the  Chinese  language.  In 
conjunction  with  Dr.  Carey,  he  had  also  published  three 
volumes  of  the  Ramayun.  Dr.  Carey  had  given  the  world 
grammars  of  the  Bengalee,  the  Sanscrit,  and  the  Mahratta 
languages,  and  was  carrying  grammars  of  the  Telinga  and 
Punjabee  throughout  the  press.  He  had  likewise  made 
considerable  progress  in  the  compilation  of  an  Orissa 
grammar.  He  had  also  commenced  the  printing  of  a 
Bengalee  dictionary,  which  eventually  extended  to  three 
quarto  volumes,  and  he  had  been  for  some  time  collecting 
materials  for  a  Universal  Dictionary  of  the  Oriental  lan- 
guages derived  from  the  Sanscrit,  with  the  corresponding 
words  in  Greek  and  Hebrew.  He  had  likewise  finished  at 
press  a  dictionary  of  the  Mahratta  language.  All  these 
labours  were  undertaken,  not  from  any  thirst  of  literary 
distinction,  but  from  a  conscientious  desire  to  accomplish 
the  duties  which  he  and  his  colleagues  identified  with 
their  position  as  the  pioneers  of  the  mission. 

It  has  been  stated  in  a  previous  page,  that  Mr.  Aratoon 
was  placed  in  charge  of  the  mission  station  in  Jessore. 
He  was  complete  master  of  the  vernacular  tongue,  and 
indefatigable  in  his  pious  exertions ;  at  the  same  time  he 
was  endeared  to  the  people  by  the  extraordinary  amenity 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1811.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  467 

of  his  disposition.     His  success  far  exceeded  the  expec- 
tations   of  the    Serampore    missionaries;    and    Jessore 
appeared,  next  to  Serampore,  the  most  prosperous  and 
promising  of  the  stations.    The  church,  which  was  small  in 
numbers,  was  increased  in  1809,  to  twenty-nine.     In  1810, 
Mr.  Aracoon  baptized  thirty-two,  of  whom  fourteen  were 
Mahomedans  and  eighteen  Hindoos.      He  adopted  the 
plan  of  administering  the  sacrament  monthly  in  the  four 
villages  in  which  his  flock  resided.     The  poorer  members 
were  thus  relieved  from  the  expense  and  inconvenience  of 
a  monthly  visit  to  the  chief  station,  and  the  missionary 
was  laid  under  the  necessity  of  itinerating  through  the 
district.     Four  of  the  more  able  of  the  converts  were  ap- 
pointed to  reside  in  these  villages,  to  watch  over  the 
Christian  members  of  the  church,  and  to  collect  and  instruct 
inquirers.     His  success  in  1811  was  not  equal  to  that  of 
preceding  years,  and  circumstances  having  arisen  to  render 
his  removal  to  some  other  station  advisable,  Mr.  Petruse, 
another  member  of  the  church  in  Calcutta,  was  selected 
to  succeed  him.     He  was  well  versed  in  the  language,  but 
was  wanting  in  that  indefatigable  perseverance  which  had 
rendered  his  predecessor's  efforts  so  successful,  and  the 
mission  drooped  in  his  hands.     Mr.  Aratoon  himself  was 
sent  to  Bombay,  to  establish  a  mission  in  the  Mahratta 
country,  and  promote  the  distribution  of  the  New  Testa- 
ment in  that  language.     The  extension  of  the  mission  to 
this  new  sphere  of  labour  at  another  Presidency  arose 
from  Dr.  Carey's  importunate  desire  to  occupy  a  country,  as 
soon  as  the  New  Testament  was  completed  in  its  language. 
Whatever  may  be  said  of  the  wisdom  of  the  plan,  the 
selection  of  Mr.  Aratoon  was  injudicious.     His  intimate 
knowledge  of  Bengalee  was  lost  in  a  province  in  which  it 
was  not  spoken ;  and  though  he  ultimately  returned  to 
labour  in  Bengal,  it  was  not  till  after  several  years  of  his 
valuable  life  had  been  comparatively  wasted. 

Towards  the  close  of  1811   and  the  beginning  of  1812, 
the  Missionary  circle  was  visited  with  the  severest  do- 

H  H    2 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


468  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE   MISSION.       [Chaf.  IX. 

mestic  afflictions.     Dr.  Carey  had  been  bereaved    of  his 
grandson ;   Mr.  Robinson  of  his  wife  and  two  children ; 

and  Mr.  Chamberlain  of  all  his  children.     Mr. 
J£!SEEl2k'  Chater,  Mr.  Ward,  and  Dr.  Marshman  had  each 

been  deprived  of  a  child;  and  Mr.  Fernandez 
had  buried  his  wife.  To  these  heavy  family  afflictions  was 
now  added  a  deeper  calamity,  which  at  once  suspended 
the  labours  of  the .  Serampore  missionaries,  and  put  their 
zeal  and  perseverance  to  the  severest  test.  During  the 
night  of  the  11th  of  March,  the  printing  office  at  Seram- 
pore was  totally  consumed  by  fire,  and  the  labour  of 
twelve  years  destroyed  in  a  few  hours.  The  office  was 
about  a  hundred  feet  in  length,  and  forty-five  in  breadth. 
At  the  entrance  on  the  north  were  two  rooms  which 
Mr.  Ward  had  used  as  a  counting-house,  and  which  con- 
tained all  the  papers  and  the  accounts  of  the  mission  from 
its  establishment.  The  southern  rooms  were  filled  with 
stores  of  paper  and  material ;  the  intermediate  space  con- 
tained the  cases  and  types,  and  a  side  room,  more  recently 
erected,  the  presses.  The  office  was  more  extensively 
stocked  at  this  time  than  it  had  been  at  any  former  period. 
It  contained  fourteen  founts  in  the  eastern  languages, 
a  large  assortment  of  types  lately  received  from  England, 
and  more  than  twelve  hundred  reams  of  paper.  The 
fire  was  discovered  about  six  o'clock  in  the  evening,  at  the 
southern  extremity  of  the  building,  which  was  quickly 
filled  with  a  dense  smoke,  rendered  the  more  suffocating 
from  the  lowness  of  the  roof.  A  fire-engine  was  un- 
known in  India ;  an  attempt  was  therefore  made  to  stifle 
the  flames  by  closing  all  the  doors  and  windows,  and 
the  roof  was  simultaneously  opened  over  the  seat  of  the 
fire  in  the  hope  of  extinguishing  it  by  a  discharge  of 
water  from  above.  After  the  lapse  of  four  hours,  how- 
ever, during  which  these  efforts  appeared  to  give  some 
hope  of  success,  an  injudicious  friend  opened  one  of  the 
windows,  with  the  view  of  saving  some  portion  of  the 
property,  but  the  current  of  air  thus  introduced  speedily 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1812.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORB  MISSION.  469 

set  the  building  in  a  blaze.  The  entire  destruction  of 
the  office  now  appeared  inevitable,  and  Mr.  Ward  hastened 
to  rescue  the  deeds  of  the  premises  and  the  records  and 
accounts  of  the  Mission  from  the  counting-house,  in  which 
he  was  partially  successful.  By  eleven  at  night  the  flames 
had  burst  forth  at  every  window,  and  at  midnight  the 
roof  fell  in  with  a  crash,  and  a  steady  column  of  fire  rose 
to  the  sky,  like  the  flame  of  a  candle.  After  the  con- 
flagration was  complete,  the  members  of  the  mission 
family  seated  themselves  in  front  of  this  scene  of  desola- 
tion, contemplating  it  with  feelings  of  deep  solemnity, 
but  without  a  murmur  or  a  desponding  look.  "  A  solemn 
serenity,"  as  Dr.  Marshman  wrote,  "seemed  to  fill  and 
strengthen  every  heart."  The  value  of  the  property 
destroyed  was  estimated  at  7000Z.  ;  but  the  loss  of  so 
many  copies  of  the  Scriptures,  and  of  valuable  manu- 
scripts, far  outweighed  that  of  the  money.  The  manu- 
script of  the  translation  of  the  Ramayun  was  entirely 
destroyed,  and  the  work  was  never  resumed.  The  ma- 
terials for  the  Polyglot  Dictionary,  and  the  rough  copy 
of  the  Telinga  grammar,  as  well  as  of  all  the  versions  in 
the  press,  perished.  But  the  printing-presses  in  the  side 
room  were  happily  preserved. 

Early  the  next  morning  Dr.  Marshman  went  down  to 
Calcutta  to  communicate  the  dismal  tidings  to  Dr.  Carey, 
who  was  so  staggered  by  the  blow  as  to  be  unable  for  some 
time  to  utter  a  word.  He  and  his  colleague  then  called 
on  Mr.  Thomason,  who  burst  into  tears  at  the  intelligence. 
They  returned  to  Serampore  in  the  evening,  and  found, 
to  their  inexpressible  delight,  that  Mr.  Ward  who  had 
been  employed  in  clearing  the  wreck  near  the  spot  where 
the  punches  and  matrices  had  been  deposited,  had  suc- 
ceeded in  discovering  them  uninjured.  If  these  invalu- 
able articles,  which  had  been  ten  years  in  preparation,  had 
been  so  far  defaced  by  the  fire  as  to  be  unserviceable,  the 
labours  of  the  missionaries  must  have  been  crippled  for 
a  long  .period-     On  the  discovery  of  the  punches  and 

H  H    3 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


470  HISTORY  OF  THE  SBRAMPORE  MISSION,      [Chap.  IX* 

matrices,  every  feeling  of  despondency  vanished  from 
Mr.  Ward's  mind,  and  he  contemplated  with  exultation 
the  immediate  renewal  of  their  labours.  A  building  on 
the  premises,  near  the  bank  of  the  river,  more  spacious 
than  that  which  was  consumed,  had  been  rented  to  a 
mercantile  firm  in  Calcutta  for  several  years,  and  vacated 
by  them  only  in  the  previous  month.  When  the  three 
._.   #s    ,     missionaries  met  the  next  morning  to  discuss 

Restoration  of  ° 

r£u0mpttoTof  their  future  course  of  proceeding,  they  resolved 
Ubour#  to  occupy  it  as  their  future  printing-office. 

While  the  natives  in  their  employ,  and  in  the  town  and 
neighbourhood,  despaired  of  the  resumption  of  labour, 
the  minds  of  the  missionaries  themselves  were  filled  with 
confidence.  The  workmen  were  called  and  paid  up  to 
the  day,  and  dismissed  to  their  homes  for  a  month ;  and 
Mr.  Ward  assured  them,  with  a  cheerful  countenance, 
that  the  office  would  be  again  at  work  at  the  end  of 
thirty  days.  The  pundits  were  set  to  the  work  of  trans- 
lation ;  and  the  melted  metal,  which  had  been  collected  to 
the  extent  of  more  than  four  tons,  was  made  over  to  the 
type  casters.  Their  number  was  augmented,  and  they 
were  told  off  in  relays,  and  worked  night  and  day  with 
such  diligence,  that  at  the  end  of  thirty  days  the  mis- 
sionaries were  enabled  to  begin  two  editions  of  the  New 
Testament,  the  Tamul  and  the  Hindoostanee.  Before  the 
end  of  April,  in  less  than  six  weeks  from  the  night  of  the 
calamity,  the  Orissa,  the  Sikh,  and  the  Bengalee  founts  had 
been  completed,  and  within  a  few  months  the  press  was  in 
full  operation,  and  all  the  works  which  were  in  progress 
before  the  fire,  were  recommenced  before  the  close  of  the 
year.  In  writing  to  Mr.  Fuller  in  the  following  year, 
Dr.  Carey  remarked  that  at  the  end  of  twelve  months  the 
office  was  in  a  more  efficient  state  than  at  any  former 
period,  that  the  new  translations  were  superior  to  those 
which  had  been  destroyed,  and  that  the  labour  of  execut- 
ing them  afresh  was  not  greater  than  would  have  been 
entailed  by  the  revision  of  the  former  manuscripts.     Even 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1812.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SBBAMPOBB  MISSION.  471 

the  rewriting  of  the  grammars,  though  by  no  means  an 
agreeable  task,  had  been  useful  in  their  improvement, 
and  not  less  in  enlarging  Dr.  Carey's  acquaintance  with 
the  languages. 

The  Christian  sympathy  of  their  friends  in  India  on  the 
occasion  of  this  great  catastrophe,  showed  the  estimation 
in  which  the  labours  of  the  missionaries  were  8ympathy  of 
held.  Their  cordial  and  generous  friend,  Mr.  frlend8  in  Indla- 
Thomason,  of  his  own  impulse  set  on  foot  a  subscription 
for  their  immediate  aid  among  the  members  of  his  own 
congregation,  and  in  a  day  or  two  raised  800/.,  of  which 
he  himself,  from  an  income  comparatively  limited,  and  en- 
cumbered with  other  claims,  contributed  40/.  Six  other 
Christian  friends  gave  50/.  each,  and  among  them  was  the 
son  of  Major  Scott  Waring,  who  had  assailed  the  mission- 
aries with  acrimony  five  years  before.  Mr.  Brown,  though 
suffering  from  an  acute  disease  which  soon  after  terminated 
his  life,  dictated  a  letter  of  condolence  from  his  couch  in 
the  most  affectionate  terms,  and  urged  the  missionaries  to 
draw  on  the  Bible  Society  in  London  for  the  sums  which 
had  been  voted  prospectively  for  three  years ;  but  while 
they  returned  him  their  cordial  thanks  for  this  token  of 
kindness,  they  expressed  a  strong  hope  of  being  able  to  re- 
trieve their  loss,  and  to  resume  their  labours  without  such 
an  encroachment  on  the  liberality  of  that  body.  From 
men  of  every  rank  and  of  every  class,  without  distinction 
of  creed  or  sect,  they  received  the  warmest  expressions 
of  sympathy,  and  the  most  generous  offers  of  assistance. 
Throughout  the  community  in  India  the  calamity  was 
considei*ed  a  public  one.  The  efforts  made  in  Eqgland 
to  repair  the  loss  and  place  the  printing  esta-  Effort*  to  repair 
blishment  on  its  former  footing  of  efficiency,  "^-°"  ° 
presented  a  gratifying  example  of  Christian  benevolence. 
"  Your  letter,"  says  Mr.  Fuller,  "  with  an  account  of  the 
fire,  reached  England  on  the  9th  of  September,"  (it  was 
more  than  six  months  on  the  voyage,)  "  when  I  was  at 
Norwich,  and  was  printed  and  widely  circulated  by  Dr. 

H  H    4 


Digitized  by 


Google 


472  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPOBE  MISSION.      [Gka*.  IX. 

Ryland,  before  I  knew  of  it.     On  my  return,  calling  at  my 
daughters'  at  Newmarket,  I  heard  of  the  disaster.     When 
the  news  reached  Norwich,  the  day  after  I  left  it ;  though 
they  had  collected  200/.  for  me,  they  added  500/.  for  the 
fire.     I  spent  the  Lord's  day  at  Cambridge,  and  about 
165/.  more  were  collected  towards  the  loss.     The  Bible 
Society  voted  2000  reams  of  paper  to  cover  the  loss  in  that 
article,  be  the  loss  whose  it  might.     The  London  Mis- 
sionary Society  voted  100/.,  and  the  Editors  of  the  4  Evan- 
gelical Magazine,'  50/.     On  the  4th  of  October  I  preached 
at  Northampton,  where  170?.  were  collected.     We  have 
had  a  collection  at  Kettering  of  160/.     Subscriptions  are 
opened  at  London,  Bristol,  Birmingham,  Leicester,  Not- 
tingham, Hull,  Leeds,  Bradford,  Manchester,  Liverpool, 
Edinburgh,  Glasgow,  and  other  places.     I  have  received 
between  600?.  and  700/.     The  London  subscription  cannot 
be  less  than  1000/.    Edinburgh  (in  addition  to  200/.  sent 
me  from  the  Society  in  Scotland  for  Propagating  Chris- 
tian Knowledge,  which  supported  Brainerd,)  is  1000J. 
Of  the  fruits  of  Glasgow  I  have  not  heard.     In  Greenock, 
a  western  sea-port  of  Scotland,  containing  30,000  inhabi- 
tants, I  hear  they  collected  for  us  in  all  their  places  of 
worship  on  the  Lord's  day.      Leeds  amounted  to  300/., 
Bradford  to  100/.,  Bristol  between  300/.  and  400/.,  Lei- 
cester 200/.  or  300/."     The  whole  of  the  loss  was  made 
up  in  sixty  days.     Within  two  months  after  hearing  of 
the  disaster,  Mr.  Fuller  received  the  sheets  of  the  New 
Testament  printed  from  the  re-cast  types,  and  he  cut  them 
into  slips  and  sent  them  to  the  various  places  which  had 
so  liberally  poured   in  their  contributions,  designating 
them  the  "  feathers  of  the  phoenix."     In  his  letter  to  the 
missionaries,  he  said  that  the  rapidity  with  which  they 
had  been  enabled  to  repair  the  loss  of  their  types  and 
begin  their  labours  anew,  appeared  to  be  as  remarkable  as 
if  the  pecuniary  loss  had  been  made  up  in  a  week.    "  This 
fire  has  given  your  undertaking  a  celebrity  which  nothing 
else  it  seems  could ;  a  celebrity  which  after  all  makes  me 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1812.]  HISTORY   OF   THE   SERAMPORE  MISSION.  473 

tremble-  I  see  the  eagerness  of  men  after  this  celebrity 
passing  all  bounds,  and  we  are  men.  I  see  great  under- 
takings blasted  apparently  by  this  cause.  Ought  Mr  Fuller>$  re. 
we  not  to  tremble  ?  The  public  is  now  giving  us  mW 
their  praises.  Eight  hundred  guineas  have  been  offered  for 
Dr.  Carey's  likeness.  If  we  inhale  this  incense,  will  not 
the  Lord  be  offended,  and  withdraw  his  blessing,  and  then 
where  are  we  ?  Ought  we  not  to  tremble  ?  Surely  we 
need  more  grace  to  go  through  good  report  than  evil.  I 
have  less  jealousy  of  you  than  of  ourselves,  but  we  are  all 
in  danger.  When  you  pitched  your  tents  at  Serampore, 
you  said,  We  will  not  accumulate  riches,  but  devote  all  to 
God  for  the  salvation  of  the  heathen.  God  has  given  you 
what  you  desired,  and  what  you  desired  not.  Blessed 
men,  God  will  yet  bless  you,  and  make  you  a  blessing.  I 
and  others  of  us  may  die,  but  God  wiil  surely  visit  you. 
Only  beware  of  flattery  and  applause,  for  now  you  may 
expect  a  tide  of  this  to  try  you.  You  have  stood  your 
ground  through  evil  report ;  may  you  stand  it  under  good 
report.  Many  who  have  endured  the  first  have  failed 
under  the  last.  The  icy  mountain  that  can  stand  the 
winter's  blast  may  melt  before  the  summer's  sun.  Expect 
to  be  highly  applauded,  bitterlyreproached,  greatly  moved, 
and  much  tried  in  every  way.  Oh,  that  having  done  all, 
you  may  stand !  " 

The  trials  were  nearer  than  the  applause.  Dr.  Carey 
and  his  two  colleagues  had  scarcely  recovered  from  the 
blow  inflicted  on  their  labours  by  the  fire,  when  Re^ai  or  the 
they  found  the  opposition  of  Government  in  5ffiSi£° 
Calcutta  to  the  missionary  enterprise  kindled  again  with 
redoubled  fierceness.  The  period  in  which  missionaries 
were  to  be  "  tolerated  like  toads  "  had  expired,  and  the 
period  in  which  they  were  to  be  "  hunted  like  wild  beasts  " 
was  come  round  again.  The  intermediate  period  of  repose 
was  brief,  and  scarcely  extended  over  two  years.  It  was 
on  the  20th  of  October,  1810,  that  Lord  Minto  assured 
Dr.  Marshfloian  that  there  would  be  no  objection  on  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


474  HISTORY  OF  THE  SEBAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  IX. 

part  of  Government,  to  the  establishment  of  a  mission  at 
Agra,  and  it  was  on  the  17th  of  June,  1812,  that  the 
Government  again  took  the  field  against  missions,  and 
pursued  the  missionaries  with  a  degree  of  rancour  and 
virulence  of  which  there  had  been  no  previous  example 
since  Queen  Elizabeth  gave  the  Company  their  first 
charter,  more  than  two  centuries  before.  On  that  day 
the  Supreme  Council  passed  an  order  for  the  expulsion  of 
two  missionaries  from  the  country,  and  in  the  course  of  a 
few  months  extended  it  to  all  the  missionaries  brought 
under  notice  —  the  Serampore  missionaries  themselves 
excepted  —  till  the  number  under  sentence  of  banishment 
amounted  tonight.  The  transactions  connected  with  this 
the  last  and  the  most  violent  persecution,  were  spread 
over  a  period  of  ten  months,  and  will  require  to  be  nar- 
rated without  interruption;  it  appears  desirable,  there- 
fore, before  entering  on  them,  to  dispose  of  the  other  less 
prominent  events  of  the  year. 

On  the  23rd  of  May,  Mr.  Mardon,  who  had  laboured 
for  several  years  at  Goamalty  with  much  assiduity  and 
Death  of  Mr.  some  success,  retired  to  rest  in  apparent  health, 
Mardon.  ^ut  was  a  corpse  before  morning.     Although 

the  name  of  the  cholera,  as  the  mysterious  scourge  of  the 
nineteenth  century,  was  then  unknown,  in  India,  and  that 
disease  had  not  as  yet  become  the  object  of  universal 
dread,  there  was  little  doubt,  from  the  diagnosis  of  the 
disease  to  which  Mr.  Mardon  fell  a  victim,  that  it  was  a 
case  of  Asiatic  cholera,  of  the  most  virulent  type.  He  was 
a  man  of  great  simplicity  of  character,  and  of  amiable 
temper,  warmly  devoted  to  the  cause  of  missions,  but 
devoid  of  all  mental  and  physical  energy.  His  place  was 
filled  by  Mr.  Da  Cruz,  of  Portuguese  extraction,  a  member 
of  the  church  in  the  Bow  Bazar  in  Calcutta,  which  had 
become  the  nursery  of  the  mission.  It  may  be  useful  to 
remark  in  this  place,  that  the  missionary  labourers  raised 
up  in  India  were  engaged  without  consulting  the  Com- 
mittee in  England,  for  which,  indeed,  there  was  no  time, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1812.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  475 

when  more  than  a  twelvemonth  ordinarily  elapsed  be- 
tween the  despatch  of  a  letter,  and  the  arrival  of  a  reply. 
The  Serampore  missionaries,  therefore,  took  the 
entire  expense,  as  well  as  responsibility  of  these  JltJ5d«"iSs 
appointments,  on  themselves;  but  the  report  of 
their  labours  was  published  exclusively  through  the 
Society,  and  contributed  in  no  small  degree  to  sustain  its 
funds,  and  to  keep  up  the  interest  of  the  cause  at  home. 
Though  the  cost  of  re-establishing  the  printing-office, 
which  fell  entirely  on  the  funds  of  Dr.  Carey  and  his 
colleagues  until  assistance  was  received  from  England 
more  than  a  twelvemonth  after,  severely  taxed  their 
resources,  they  did  not  hesitate  to  encounter  the  addi- 
tional expense  of  engaging  the  services  of  any  young  man 
of  zeal  and  piety,  who  appeared  likely  to  be  useful  in  the 
missionary  field.  At  the  close  of  the  year  in  which  the 
office  was  consumed,  they  had  six  such  missionary  la- 
bourers dependent  on  their  funds,  besides  Mr.  Leonard, 
in  himself  a  host,  and  the  mainstay  of  the  cause  in  Calcutta, 
who  was  supported  from  the  funds  of  the  Benevolent 
Institution.  The  great  exertions  thus  made  by  the 
missionaries  were  gratefully  acknowledged  by  the  Society 
in  an  address  published  during  this  year  in  England. 
"  The  annual  expenditure  of  this  mission  at 
home  and  abroad,   exclusive  of  translations,  ^w&ZSalmtlt 

7  .  7    the  liberality  of 

amounts  at  present  to  five  or  six  thousand  USSSSSSS!9 
pounds.  It  has  not  cost  the  public,  however, 
on  an  average,  during  the  twenty  years  of  its  continuance, 
more  than  two  thousand  pounds  per  annum,  and  out  of 
this  there  are  buildings  and  other  accommodation  for  the 
mission  of  the  value  of  six  or  eight  thousand  pounds, 
which  remain  the  property  of  the  Society.  It  is  owing, 
doubtless,  to  the  unexampled  contributions  of  the  Seram- 
pore missionaries  that  things  have  hitherto  been  thus 
conducted.  This,  however,  will  not  be  considered  by  the 
friends  of  the  undertaking  as  rendering  their  exertions 
less  necessary."     Among  those  who  were  thus  engaged 


Digitized  by 


Google 


476  1IIST0RY  OF  THE   SERAMPOBE  MISSION*       [Chap.  EL 

by  the  Serampore  missionaries,  was  a  young  man  of  the 
name  of  Thompson,  an  assistant  in  one  of  the  public 
offices  in  Calcutta,  who  had  recently  joined  the  church, 
and  manifested  great  ardour  and  aptitude  for  missionary 
Element  of  labour.  He  possessed  an  extraordinary  com- 
Mr.Thomp.oo.    mand  of  the  couoquiai  tongues  of  Bengal  and 

Hindoostan,  and  he  had  for  some  time  cultivated  his 
religious  gifts  in  various  services  from  house  to  house  in 
Calcutta.  Dr.  Carey  and  his  brethren  determined  to  take 
him  on  their  own  missionary  establishment,  and  sent  him 
in  the  first  instance  to  Patna,  the  populous  and  opulent 
Mahomedan  capital  of  Behar,  where  the  graceful  fluency 
of  his  address  rendered  his  labours  very  acceptable  with 
all  classes  of  society.  Circumstances  to  which  we  shall 
presently  allude,  having  constrained  Mr.  Chamberlain  to 
leave  Agra,  Mr.  Mackintosh,  an  East  Indian,  was  sent  to 
assist  Mr.  Peacock,  and  Mr.  De  Bruyn,  a  young  man  of 
great  energy  and  promise,  was  sent  to  establish  a  station 
at  Chittagong. 

The  mission  at  Rangoon  had  been  weakened  by  the 
determination  of  Mr.  Chater  to  relinquish  it.  He  entered 
Rangoon  upon  his  work  with  much  zeal,  and  had  so  far 

******  mastered  the  language  as  to  be  able  to  super- 

intend the  printing  of  several  tracts.  But  the  repugnance 
to  the  presence  of  foreign  females,  which  has  always  been 
manifested  by  the  Chinese  and  the  Indo-Chinese  govern- 
ments, had  created  some  discussions  regarding  Mrs. 
Chater's  residence  in  Rangoon.  There  was,  moreover,  no 
female  society  to  be  found  in  the  town  congenial  to  her 
habits,  and  her  husband,  owing  to  her  objection  to  this 
exile  from  her  usual  associations,  was  constrained  to  seek 
some  other  station.  The  Serampore  missionaries  had 
received  great  encouragement  to  establish  a  mission  in 
Ceylon,  from  the  Hon.  and  Rev.  Mr.  Twisleton,  the  senior 
chaplain  on  the  island,  and  they  now  advised  Mr.  Chater 
to  select  Columbo  as  the  scene  of  his  future  labours. 
He  acceded  to  their  wishes,  and  soon  after  proceeded  to 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1812.]  HISTORY  OP  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  477 

Ceylon,  where  he  laid  the  foundation  of  an  interesting  and 
successful  mission.     Mr.  Felix  Carey,  who  was  thus  left 
without  the  support  of  a  companion,  was  soon  after  exposed 
to  unexpected  difficulties,  and  brought  within  the  circle 
of  temptations  which  eventually  compromised  his  mission- 
ary usefulness,   not  less   than   his   personal  reputation. 
Discussions  had  arisen  between  the  British  Government 
and   the   arrogant  officers  of  the   king  of  Ava,   which 
Captain  Canning  was  sent  with  two  vessels  of  war  to  adjust. 
The  Burmese  Governor  of  Rangoon  called  on  Mr.  Carey 
to  act  as  interpreter;   he   refused  to   comply  with  the 
request,  and  as  the  Burmese  authorities  were  disposed  to 
resort  to  force,  he  took  refuge  on  one  of  the  British  ships. 
A  suspicion  was  thus  raised  of  his  being  an  English  spy, 
and  the  local  authorities,  under  the  pretence  that  he  had 
become  a  Burmese  subject,  demanded  that  he  should  be 
given  up;  but  Captain  Canning  refused  to  surrender  him, 
and  he  remained  on  board  for  nearly  two  months.     The 
political  differences  were  at  length  adjusted,  and  the  Bur- 
mese entered  into  a  written  engagement  not  to  molest 
Mr.  Carey,  and  permitted  him  to  return  to  the  town, 
where  he  resumed  his  missionary  labours.     But  the  local 
authorities  again  pressed  him  to  accept  the  office  of  inter- 
preter, and  to  act  in  that  capacity  on  any  future  emer- 
gency.    He  referred  the  question  to  Serampore,  and  was 
advised  to  conciliate  the  Burmese  Government  by  placing 
his  services  at  its  disposal.     In  October  of  the  present 
year,  he  came  round  to  Serampore  to  print  his  version  of 
the  Gospel  of  St.  Matthew,  and  also  the  grammar  of  the 
Burmese  language  he  had  compiled,  and  which,  though 
invidiously  disparaged  by  some  who  have    benefited  by 
his  labours,  has  been  considered  by  other,  and  perhaps 
equally  competent  judges,  to  evince  a  very  correct  know- 
ledge of  the  language  he  had  been  studying  for  five  years. 
After  these  works*  were  completed  the    Serampore  mis- 
sionaries determined  to  transfer  the  press  to  Rangoon ; 
and  Mr.  Carey  took  it  back  with  him.     At  the  same  time, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


478  HISTORY  OP  THE  SEBAMPORE  MISSION,      [Chap.  EL 

a  letter  was  addressed  by  them  to  the  king  of  Ava,  re-  I 
commending  to  the  especial  protection  of  his  majesty, 
"  their  beloved  brethren,  who  from  love  to  his  majesty's 
subjects  had  voluntarily  gone  to  place  themselves  under 
his  protection,  while  they  translated  the  Bible,  the  book 
of  Heaven,  which  was  received  and  revered  as  such  id 
England,  France,  Spain,  Portugal,  Sweden,  Denmark, 
Germany,  Russia,  and  America,  and  various  other  coun- 
tries, as  the  source  from  whence  all  their  knowledge  of 
virtue  and  religion  was  drawn."  They  then  alluded  to  the 
press  which  they  had  sent  to  his  dominions,  stating  that 
the  laws  of  England  were  printed  at  such  a  press,  so  that 
every  public  officer  had  the  same  regulations  to  direct  him 
in  the  administration  of  justice.  This  communication 
created  such  interest  in  the  royal  palace  at  Ava,  as  to 
induce  the  king  to  order  a  printing-press,  with  all  its 
materials,  and  a  complement  of  workmen,  to  be  sent  from 
Serampore  to  his  own  capital,  and  the  Burmese  envoy  who 
was  about  to  proceed  to  Calcutta  was  directed  to  take 
charge  of  it.  The  press  was  prepared  with  the  greatest 
alacrity,  and  the  missionaries  indulged  the  hope  that  it 
might  lead  to  the  establishment  of  a  mission  at  Ava,  but 
the  vessel  in  which  it  was  embarked  sunk  in  the  Rangoon 
river,  and  circumstances  which  subsequently  arose  in 
Burmah  prevented  its  being  replaced.  To  supply  Mr. 
Felix  Carey  with  a  missionary  associate,  Mr.  Norman 
Kerr,  an  East  Indian  youth  of  fair  abilities,  was  drawn  from 
the  church  in  Calcutta ;  but  he  had  no  strength  of  cha- 
racter, and,  after  an  experimental  residence  of  a  twelve- 
month in  Rangoon,  returned  to  Calcutta,  and  was  ad- 
vised to  return  to  secular  employment. 

Mr.  Chamberlain  and  Mr.  Peacock  had  commenced 
the  mission  at  Agra  at  the  beginning  of  1811,  with  the 
approbation  of  Government,  but  with  the  dis- 
wu.iontoAgra.  ^.^  understanding  that  they  should  in  every- 
thing conform  to  its  orders.  Mr.  Chamberlain  entered  on 
the  work  with  his  wonted  ardour,  and,  finding  that  the 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


1812.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORB  MISSION.  479 

Bruj-Bhasa,  which  was  current  in  the  district  round  the 
city,  was  a  distinct  dialect  rather  than  a  mere  provincial 
variety  of  the  Hindee,  began  a  translation  of  the 
Gospels  in  it.  The  missionary  establishment  at  Agra,  to 
which  Dr.  Carey  and  his  associates  looked  for  the  im- 
provement of  more  than  one  version,  continued  for  some 
time  to  afford  every  prospect  of  success;  but  before  it  had 
been  eighteen  months  in  existence,  Mr.  Chamberlain's  un- 
manageable temper  led  to  his  sudden  and  compulsory 
removal.  If  his  mind  had  been  disciplined  with  any 
touch  of  judgment  or  prudence,  his  spirit  of  energy, 
combined  with  the  strength  of  his  constitution,  might 
have  led  to  important  results ;  but  he  was  never  able  to 
exercise  any  control  over  himself,  and  his  life  was  a  con- 
stant succession  of  disputes  and  difficulties.  He  had 
obtained  access  to  the  European  soldiers  in  the  Fort  at 
Agra,  among  whom  he  always  delighted  to  minister,  and 
to  whom  his  rough  and  ready  addresses  were  peculiarly 
acceptable.  One  of  the  soldiers  was  baptized  by  immer- 
sion ;  Colonel  Bowie,  the  commandant,  took  offence,  and 
interdicted  Mr.  Chamberlain's  visits  to  the  Fori.  He  sought 
an  explanation,  and  was  informed  that  he  was  at  liberty 
to  visit  his  personal  friends,  but  that  he  must  obtain  a 
pass  from  the  staff-officer  on  each  occasion.  This  led  to 
an  angry  correspondence,  and  Mr.  Chamberlain  was  drawn 
on  to  set  the  military  authorities  at  defiance,  and  to  claim 
it  as  a  right  to  give  religious  instruction  to  the  soldiers 
who  desired  his  ministrations.  At  the  present  day  when 
the  principles  of  religious  liberty  are  in  full  operation  in 
the  army  as  well  as  in  society  in  general,  such  a  request 
would  be  granted  as  a  matter  of  course,  and  any  officer 
who  might  venture  to  oppose  it  would  incur  the  serious 
displeasure  of  Horse  Guards.  But  before  the  repeal  of 
the  Test  and  Corporation  Acts,  and  the  Catholic  Emanci- 
pation Bill,  the  Nonconformist  and  Koman  Catholic 
soldiers  were  too  frequently  subjected  to  the  most  unjust 
restrictions,  and  their  religious  feelings  were  often  treated 


Digitized  by 


Google 


480  HISTORY  OF  THE   SERAMPORE  MISSION*      [Chap.  IX. 

with    contempt  from  the   wanton   caprice    of    bigotryv 
though  always  under  the  pretext  of  military  discipline- 
Military  officers  exercised  an  arbitrary  and  almost  irre- 
sponsible power,  and  Government  was  obliged,  when  any- 
such  question  was  referred  to  its  decision,  either  to  sup- 
port or  to  remove  them,  and  the  former  was  always  felt 
to  involve  less  trouble  tHan  the  latter.     Colonel  Bowie 
reported  the  matter  to  the  Government  in  Calcutta ;  the 
public  records  were  searched,  and  it  was  discovered  that  a 
similar  complaint  of  resistance  to  the  constituted  autho- 
rities   had  been  reported  against    Mr.   Chamberlain   at 
Berhampore  some  years  before,  and   he  was  forthwith 
ordered  back   to  the  Presidency.     When   the  question 
came  before  his  brethren  at   Serampore,  they  severely 
censured  his  imprudence,  and  Dr.  Carey  was  desired  to 
write  to  him:  "  Your  wish,"  he  said,  "to  communicate 
the  Gospel  to  all  who  desire  to  hear  it,  is  right;  but  in  our 
circumstances  it  is  the  height  of  imprudence  to  set  our- 
selves in  opposition  to,  or  to  refuse  to  obey,  the  orders  of 
those  in  authority,  and  we  think  that  all  attempts  to  get 
among  the  military,  except  under  peculiar  circumstances, 
are  wrong,  on   several  accounts:   in  the  first  place,  our 
work  lies  among  the  heathen,  who  should,  therefore,  have 
the  first  place  in  our  labours  and  undertakings;  in  the 
next  place,  scarcely  anything  will  excite  the  jealousy  of 
Government  so  much  as   attempts   to   get   among   the 
military ;  and,  thirdly,  military  officers  are  absolute  when 
they  are  entrusted   with  any  charge,  and  Government 
must  support  them.     We  cannot  appear  in  this  business, 
for  we  promised  Government  on  a  former  occasion  that 
you  should  give  them  no  further  cause  of  complaint. 
They  will  immediately  say,  You  have  no  control  over  Mr. 
Chamberlain,  and,  therefore,  your  engagements  stand  for 
nothing.     We,  therefore,  see  no  method  which  presents 
the  most  distant  hope  that  you  will  be  permitted  to 
remain  at  Agra,  unless  an  unqualified  promise  to  Colonel 
Bowie,  that  you  will  no  more  attempt  to  enter  the  Fort, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1812.]  HISTORY  OP   THE   SERAMPORB  MISSION.  481 

or  in  any  way  resist  his  orders,  may  induce  him  to  write 
to  Government  in  your  favour,"  No  such  concession 
was  to  be  obtained  from  Mr.  Chamberlain,  and  he  was 
obliged  to  quit  Agra.  At  Serampore  the  most  judicious 
silence  was  maintained  regarding  the  cause  of  his  removal, 
and  the  record  of  the  event  in  the  "  Circular  Letters  " 
simply  stated  that  "Brother  and  Sister  Chamberlain  arrived 
at  Serampore  on  the  4th  of  October,  in  excellent  health." 
On  the  14th  of  June  of  the  present  year  the  Rev.  David 
Brown  expired  in  Calcutta,  at  the  comparatively  early  age 
of  forty-nine,  within  six  months  of  the  death  of  r^thottir. 
his  friend  and  associate  in  evangelical  labours,  Brown* 
Henry  Martyn.  Mr.  Brown  had  resided  twenty-six  years 
in  India,  and  was  the  chief  instrument,  under  God,  of 
introducing  a  regard  for  religion  in  the  upper  class  of 
society  in  Calcutta.  When  he  arrived  in  India,  a  few  of 
the  leading  men  in  the  metropolis  patronised  the  Sabbath 
by  a  cold  and  official  attendance  on  divine  service ;  but 
there  was  no  vital  feeling  of  religion,  except  in  the  very 
limited  circle  of  his  own  personal  friends.  At  the  time  of 
his  death  a  numerous  and  highly  respectable  congregation, 
which  had  been  formed  by  his  labours,  crowded  the  Mission 
Church  to  attend  the  ministrations  of  Mr.  Thomason,  to 
whom  he  had  bequeathed  its  ministerial  duties.  Of  his 
cordial  and  almost  fraternal  co-operation  with  the  Seram- 
pore missionaries,  after  he  had  taken  up  his  abode  in  the 
town,  ample  evidence  has  been  given  in  the  preceding 
pages.  That  friendship  was  interrupted  by  the  unhappy 
scheme  of  the  Propaganda,  and  although  harmony  was 
restored  by  Mr.  Thomason's  friendly  exertions,  there 
seemed  still  to  be  wanting  that  entire  confidence  which 
banishes  all  reserve.  But  every  unpleasant  remembrance 
was  removed  before  his  decease.  He  was  attacked  by  a 
disease  which  laid  him  on  his  couch  for  several  months, 
during  which  he  received  the  most  cordial  sympathy  from 
his  friends  at  the  Mission  House.  On  hearing  of  the  fire, 
which  at  first  threatened  to  extinguish  their  labours,  he 

VOL.  I.  II 


Digitized  by 


Google 


482  HISTOBY  OP  THE  SERAMPOBB  MISSION.      [Chap.  IX. 

dictated  several  letters  to  them  from  his  bed  of  sickness, 
in  one  of  which  he  exhorted  Dr.  Marshman  and  his 
brethren  not  to  be  dismayed  by  the  greatness  of  the 
disaster,  but  to  raise  their  minds  to  a  level  with  the  new 
exigency  which  had  arisen.  The  fire  appeared  to  affect 
him  more  deeply  than  it  had  done  the  missionaries  them- 
selves ;  and  it  is  grateful  to  reflect  that  the  last  communi- 
cation which  passed  between  them  was  written  in  that 
spirit  of  affectionate  intercourse  which  had  existed  before 
the  intrusion  of  Mr.  Buchanan's  plans.  Dr.  Marshman 
preached  a  funeral  sermon  on  the  occasion  of  his  death  in 
Calcutta  from  the  text,  "  Blessed  is  that  servant  whom  his 
Lord  when  he  cometh  shall  find  watching." 

Three  days  after  the  death  of  Mr.  Brown,  the  last  struggle 
between  the  Government  of  India  and  the  principle  of 
Dr  judionsar-  Christian  missions  commenced.  The  first  vic- 
ri^iocucuiu:  tims  were  the  late  Dr.  Judson,  the  apostle  of 
Burmah,  and  his  companion  Mr.  Newell,  who  landed  in 
Calcutta  from  America  on  the  17th  of  June.  This  was 
the  first  attempt  made  by  the  United  States  to  establish  a 
mission  to  the  East,  and  is  therefore  invested  with  that 
peculiar  interest  which  belongs  to  the  infancy  of  under- 
takings which  subsequently  rise  into  importance.  During 
the  preceding  ten  years  some  of  the  churches  in  America 
had  been  gradually  prepared  to  take  a  share  in  the  mis- 
sionary enterprise  in  the  eastern  hemisphere.  Captain 
Wickes,  who  conveyed  Dr.  Marshman  and  his  associates  to 
India  in  the  "  Criterion  "in  1799,  carried  back  to  America 
a  pleasing  account  of  the  missionary  establishment  at 
Serampore,  and  may  be  said  to  have  planted  the  seeds  of 
that  interest  in  foreign  missions  in  his  native  state,  Penn- 
sylvania, which  has  since  produced  so  luxuriant  a  harvest. 
Mr.  Robert  Rai-  ^  correspondence  was  immediately  opened  with 
uFt&fS^  the  Serampore  missionaries  by  Mr.  Robert 
to  Ame He*.  Ralston,  an  eminent  merchant  of  Philadelphia, 
which  was  continued  for  more  than  thirty-five  years  with 
unabated  cordiality,  and  terminated  only  with  the  death 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1812.]  HISTOBT  OF  THE  SEBAMPORE  MISSION,  483 

of  the  last  of  their  number.  To  him  belongs  the  distinc- 
tion of  being  the  first  layman  in  America  who  took  an 
interest  in  the  promotion  of  missions  to  the  East,  at  a 
time  when  no  efforts  had  been  made  on  the  continent  of 
America  except  for  the  benefit  of  its  Indian  tribes ;  and 
his  name  deserves  to  be  commemorated  with  honour  in 
the  history  of  American  foreign  missions.  The  Rev.  Dr. 
Staughton,  who  had  been  associated  with  Mr.  Fuller  in 
the  establishment  of  the  Baptist  mission  in  England  in 
1792,  did  not  forget  the  cause  on  his  emigration  to  Phila- 
delphia. He  was  personally  acquainted  with  Dr.  Carey, 
and  maintained  a  regular  correspondence  with  him  in 
India,  under  the  influence  of  which  he  endeavoured  to 
create  a  spirit  of  missionary  zeal  in  the  country  of  his 
adoption.  When  the  prospectus  of  the  Oriental  transla- 
tions reached  America,  "a  subscription  was  raised  to  the 
amount  of  700/.,  chiefly  through  the  exertions  of  Mr. 
Ralston,  himself  a  Presbyterian.  The  successive  arrival 
of  the  missionaries  of  the  Baptist  Society,  on  their  way  to 
India,  served  to  extend  and  deepen  the  interest  which  had 
been  excited  in  the  cause  in  America,  and  afforded  another 
illustration  of  that  Divine  agency  by  which  the  "wrath  of 
man  is  turned  to  the  glory  of  God."  It  was  the  stern 
opposition  of  the  Court  of  Directors  to  the  missionary 
cause  which  constrained  nine  missionaries  to  seek  access  to 
India  by  way  of  America  between  1802  and  1812.  Their 
temporary  sojourn  there  contributed  to  excite  a  spirit  of 
missionary  emulation,  and  thus  the  restrictions  laid  on 
the  resort  of  English  missionaries  to  India  by  the  home 
Government  became,  indirectly,  the  instrument  of  opening 
up  another  and  a  larger  source  of  supply  of  labourers  for 
the  missionary  field. 

The  first  direct  attempt,  however,  which  was  made  in 
America  to  establish  missions  in  the  East,  originated  in  the 
Congregational,  and  not  in  the  Baptist  denomi-  commencement 

,°      °     _.  7  -         .   -  11     i       i  /.  of  Indian  MiMion 

nation.     It  commenced  with  a  small  body  of  ta  America. 
enthusiastic  students  in  the  theological  seminary  at  An- 

ii  2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


484  HISTORY  OF  THE   SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  IX. 

dover,  of  whom  Adoniram  Judson  was  the  most  ardent  and 
distinguished.     His  attention  was  first  drawn  to  the  sub- 
ject of  missions  by  the  perusal  of  Mr.  Buchanan's  "  Star 
in  the  East,"  to  which  allusion  has  been  already  made,  and 
which  kindled  in  his  youthful  imagination  the  romantic 
idea  of  a  mission  of  Christian  benevolence  to  heathen  and 
barbarous  tribes.     That  which  was,  perhaps,  at  first  only 
the  vague  impulse  of  enthusiasm,  soon  assumed  a  more 
substantive  form,  and  became  the  governing  principle  of 
his  actions.     He  imbibed  what  his  biographer  has  aptly 
termed  a  u  passion  for  missions/'  and  it  became  the  ab- 
sorbing object  of  his  desire  to  find  some  opportunity  of 
proceeding  as  a  missionary  to  some  heathen  land.     It  was 
through  the  influence  of  Judson  and  his  associates  at  An- 
dover,  that  the  first  practical  effort  was  made  to  establish 
a  missionary  society  for  the  eastern  hemisphere.     On  the 
29th  of  June,  1810,  the  American  Board  of  Commissioners 
for  Foreign  Missions  was  established  at  Bradford,  Conneg- 
jticut.      The  Board  was,   at   first,  little  more  than    the 
centre  to  which  the  missionary  feelings  of  the  body  were 
attracted.      Like  the  Baptist  Missionary  Society,  when 
formed  in  1792,  its  members  were  ignorant  of  the  mode  of 
organising  foreign  missions,  weak  in  funds,  and  mistrustful 
of  their  own  power.     Hence,  they  deputed  Mr.  Judson  to 
England,  to  endeavour  to  form  an  alliance  with  the  London 
Missionary  Society,  upon  the  principle  of  mutual  concert 
and  co-operation.     The  directors  of  that  Society  received 
him  with  cordiality,  and  offered  to  take  him  and  his  asso- 
ciates on  their  own  missionary  establishment,  but  they 
wisely  declined  to  share  the  management  of  their  mission 
with  a  body  dwelling  across  the  Atlantic.     But  the  Ame- 
rican Board  of  Commissioners  were  unwilling  to  resign 
their  missionaries  to  the  patronage  of  another  body,  and 
thus  admit  the  humiliating  inference  that  they  were  unable 
to  support  a  mission  of  their  own.     At  the  same  time, 
they  shrunk  from  the  responsibility  of  embarking  in  a 
mission  beyond  seas,  in  a  distant  and  unknown  country, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1812.]  HISTORT  OP  THE  SEBAMPORE  MISSION,  485 

and  of  guaranteeing  the  support  of  four  families.  It  was, 
therefore,  resolved  that  the  Board  do  not  recommend  Mr. 
Judson  and  his  associates  to  accept  the  offer  of  the  London 
Society,  but  advise  them  to  wait  "  the  further  intimations 
of  Providence  relative  to  their  means  of  obtaining  sup- 
plies." But  Mr.  Judson's  ardent  temperament  was  not 
satisfied  with  this  mode  of  waiting  on  Providence,  which 
is  too  often  only  a  cover  for  indecision  and  pusillanimity. 
He  had  the  promise  of  support  from  a  well-organised  asso- 
ciation in  England,  and  he  appears  to  have  expressed  his 
dissatisfaction  with  the  faint-heartedness  of  the  Board  in 
terms  which  excited  their  displeasure.  But  his  point  was 
carried.  The  next  day  he  and  his  three  companions  were 
officially  appointed  missionaries  to  labour  under  the  au- 
spices of  the  Board  in  the  Burmese  Empire,  or  elsewhere. 
Mr.  Judson  embarked  in  the  "  Caravan  "  on  the  19th  of 
February,  1812,  with  the  same  feeling  of  exultation  which 
animated  Dr.  Carey  when  he  stepped  on  board  the  Danish 
vessel  in  the  Channel  about  nineteen  years  before.  He  was 
accompanied  by  his  wife,  and  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Newell,  and  a 
passage  was  engaged  for  his  three  other  colleagues  in 
another  vessel,  which  sailed  a  few  days  after.  He  reached 
Calcutta  on  the  17th  of  June,  and  his  appearance  became 
the  signal  for  another  crusade  against  the  missionary  en- 
terprise on  the  part  of  the  Government  of  India. 

The  "  gleam  of  sunshine,"  under  the  influence  of  which 
Mr.  Chamberlain  had  been  permitted  to  establish  a  mission 
at  Agra,  had  now  passed  away,  and  for  several 
months   before   Mr.  Judson's   arrival,  as   Mr.  u™o?*j2wnI 

7  ment  to  Missions. 

Ward  stated  to  Mr.  Fuller,  "  the  sky  had  been 
lowering."  It  was  rumoured  that  the  animosity  of  the 
anti-missionary  party  in  the  Government  had  been  sharp- 
ened by  the  assurance  that  the  most  strenuous  efforts 
would  be  made  at  the  approaching  renewal  of  the  Charter, 
to  obtain  a  legal  toleration  for  missionaries  in  India.  The 
secretaries  to  Government  appear  to  have  exercised  a  pre- 
dominant influence  in  the  public  counsels  throughout  the 

I  I   3 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


486  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.       [Chap.  IX. 

administration  of  Lord  Minto,  and  the  despotic  constitution 
of  the  Government  afforded  ample  scope  for  the  indulgence 
of  their  hostility  or  caprice.  Unlicensed  Europeans  were 
safe  only  as  long  as  they  were  not  denounced.  The 
standing  orders  of  the  Court  of  Directors  against  the  ad- 
mission of  interlopers  into  the  country,  rendered  the  ex- 
pulsion of  missionaries  a  simple  and  easy  process.  As 
the  Court  would  grant  no  licenses,  the  missionaries  were 
necessarily  unlicensed,  and  it  was  only  for  some  officious 
or  malevolent  functionary  to  report  their  arrival,  to 
ensure  "the  enforcement  of  the  standing  orders," — the 
official  cant  of  the  day  for  the  act  of  deportation.  Indi- 
cations were  not  wanting  of  an  unfavourable  change  in 
the  humour  of  men  in  authority  near  the  Council  Chamber, 
on  the  subject  of  religion  and  missions.  Mr.  Thomason 
had  preached  a  sermon  at  the  beginning  of  the  present 
year,  which  bore  directly  on  missionary  exertions,  and  the 
Secretary  refused  to  permit  its  publication.  Mr.  Thomp- 
son, a  missionary  connected  with  the  London  Society, 
came  round  from  Rangoon  to  Calcutta,  on  his  way  to 
Madras.  The  circumstance  was  discovered  after  he  had 
sailed,  and  a  peremptory  order  was  sent  to  that  Presidency 
to  expel  him  on  his  arrival ;  which  so  deeply  affected  his 
mind  that  he  was  attacked  by  a  disease  which  carried  him 
off  in  a  few  days. 

It  was  in  these  circumstances  that  Mr.  Judson  landed  at 

Calcutta,  with  his  wife,  and  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Newell.    Though 

he  was  now  within  the  dominions  of  a  Christian 

Mr.  Judson's  ar-  ,  .  .  0     ~..      .      .  -  - 

riv.1  and  difli-     power,  his   mission  of  Christian  benevolence 


commenced  under  no  smiling  auspices.  The 
day  after  his  arrival  he  reported  himself  at  the  police  office, 
and  stated  that  he  and  his  colleague,  who  had  passports 
from  the  Government  of  Massachusetts,  had  been  sent 
out  by  a  missionary  society  in  America,  to  establish  a 
mission  in  some  country  to  the  east  of  Bengal.  Mr. 
Martyn,  the  leading  magistrate  at  Calcutta,  now  had 
missionaries  again  within   his    grasp,    whom   he  could 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1812.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.  487 

unscrupulously  worry  under  colour  of  performing  a  pub- 
lic duty.  He  immediately  reported  to  Government  that 
"  two  missionaries  had  arrived  in  the  *  Caravan/  who  pre- 
tended to  be  Americans  by  birth,  though  he  suspected 
they  were  British  subjects."  He  stated  that  "  the  mis- 
sionary route  to  India  had  of  late  been  via  America, 
because  this  class  of  persons  knew  that  they  could  not 
obtain  leave  to  proceed  hither  direct  in  any  of  the  Com- 
pany's ships ;  and  that,  while  the  communication  continued 
open  between  America  and  England,  many  missionaries 
might  be  expected,  and  they  would  all  plead  their  being 
Americans ;  because  the  commanders  of  these  vessels  knew 
that,  if  they  brought  out  unlicensed  British  subjects,  they 
would  be  subjected  to  the  expense  of  taking  them  back 
again ;"  which,  "he  presumed  to  iterate,  was  the  only 
effectual  mode  of  checking  these  immigrations."  To  this 
letter  Mr.  Dowdeswell,  now  Secretary  to  Government,  re- 
plied, that  the  Governor-General  in  Council  did  not  deem 
it  advisable  to  allow  the  two  missionaries  to  remain,  and 
that  they  must  prepare  to  return  in  the  vessel  which 
brought  them ;  and  that  the  commander  should  be  refused 
a  port  clearance  until  he  gave  a  satisfactory  assurance 
that  these  orders  would  be  complied  with.  Mr.  Judson 
appealed  directly  to  Government,  stating  that  he  and  his 
associate  did  not  intend  to  continue  in  Bengal,  or  in  any 
part  of  the  Company's  dominions,  but  had  touched  at 
Calcutta  on  their  way  to  the  eastward ;  and  that  it  was 
their  intention  to  quit  the  country  on  the  arrival  of  their 
brethren,  then  expected  in  the  "  Harmony."  He  solicited 
permission  to  continue  in  Calcutta,  till  the  arrival  of  that 
vessel  and  the  state  of  their  families  allowed  them  to 
embark.  Mr.  Dowdeswell  replied  that  Government  could 
not  allow  them  to  establish  themselves  in  any  part  of  the 
Company's  territories,  and  that  this  order  applied  equally 
to  the  island  of  Java,  which  had  recently  been  conquered, 
and  to  ail  other  settlements  to  the  eastward.  If  they 
could  give  satisfactory  assurance  of  their  intention  to 

i  i  4 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


488  HISTORY  OF  THE   SERAMPOBE  MISSION.      [Chap.  IX 

proceed,  without  loss  of  time,  to  the  territories  of  any 
other  states  than  those  of  Great  Britain  and  her  allies, 
the  Governor-General  would  consider  the  propriety  of 
rescinding  so  much  of  the  order  as  required  that  they 
should  return  to  America  by  the  "  Caravan."  Mr.  Judson, 
anxious  to  escape  from  the  seat  of  a  government  so  hostile 
to  missionary  efforts,  requested  permission  to  proceed  to 
the  Isle  of  France,  where  he  hoped  to  find  a  vessel  bound 
to  Rangoon,  and  pledged  himself  to  leave  Bengal  with  his 
brethren,  then  daily  expected,  as  soon  as  circumstances 
would  permit.  To  this  request  Lord  Minto  acceded,  on 
condition  that  the  missionaries  should  sign  an  engagement 
to  pay  their  own  expenses  to  the  Mauritius. 

The  "Harmony"  arrived  on  the  15th  of  August  with 
Mr.  Johns  and  Mr.  Lawson  for  Serampore,  Mr.  May  for 
Arrival  or  the  Chinsurah,  and  the  three  colleagues  of  Mr. 
•i?J[hnc0rDroi'i!f,th  Judson.  Mr.  Martyn  lost  no  time  in  reporting 
8onare"'  to  Government  the  arrival  of  six  missionaries, 

three  of  whom  were  British  subjects.  "  Four  of  them," 
he  said,  "had  their  wives  and  children,  a  presumptive 
proof  that  they  intended  to  take  up  their  abode  in  the 
country.  Their  professed  object  was  to  preach;  but  as 
to  whom  they  were  to  preach,  or  what  description  of 
congregation  they  were  to  preach  to,  they  waited  for  in- 
formation from  the  c  Officina  Missionarum*  at  Serampore." 
On  the  receipt  of  this  letter,  the  Governor-General  imme- 
diately determined  that  the  "  standing  orders  "  should  be 
enforced,  that  the  American  missionaries  who  were 
not  British  subjects  should  be  required  to  return  by  the 
vessel  which  had  brought  them,  and  that  the  usual  re- 
strictions should  be  laid  on  her.  Mr.  Judson's  colleagues, 
Mr.  Hall,  Mr.  Rice,  and  Mr.  Nott  presented  a  memorial  to 
Government,  soliciting  permission  to  proceed  to  the  Isle  of 
France,  and  entreated  that  the  embargo  on  the  vessel 
might  be  taken  off.  With  both  these  requests  Govern- 
ment thought  fit  to  comply.  Mr.  Newell,  who  had  come 
out  with  Mr.  Judson,  embarked  for  the  Isle  of  France ; 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1812.]  HISTORY   OF  THE   SERAMPORE  MISSION.  489 

but  as  there  was  accommodation  only  for  one  family,  the 
others  were  obliged  to  wait  for  another  vessel.  On  the 
4th  of  November,  Mr.  Judson  ventured  to  apply  to  Go- 
vernment for  leave  to  proceed  to  Ceylon,  as  the  Mauritius 
was  not  his  ultimate  destination.  Three  days  after,  Mr. 
Martyn  reported  that,  up  to  that  time,  only  one  of  the  five 
missionaries  had  retired  from  the  country.  The  Govern- 
ment did  not  deign  to  seek  any  explanation  of  the  cause  of 
their  detention,  but  determined  to  pursue  the  severest 
measures  against  them.  Mr.  Judson's  application  was 
treated  with  silent  contempt,  and  the  Supreme  Council 
directed  a  communication  to  be  sent  to  Mr.  Martyn,  stating 
that  the  missionaries  had  forfeited  all  claim  to  the  indul- 
gence of  Government,  and  that  it  was  resolved  to  send 
them  to  England  by  the  fleet  then  under  despatch ;  that 
Government  was  not  bound  to  incur  any  expense  on  their 
account ;  and  that  no  larger  sum  would  be  allowed  to  the 
commander  for  their  passage  than  40/.,  and  that  they 
should  mess  with  the  gunner.  No  notice  was  taken  of 
their  wives,  and  it  was  evidently  a  matter  of  perfect 
indifference  to  the  government  of  India,  whether  they 
went  in  the  gunner's  mess  with  their  husbands,  or  were 
left  behind  to  starve.  The  vessels  in  which  the  mission- 
aries were  required  to  embark  were  then  lying  abreast  of 
Sagor  island,  at  the  new  anchorage,  more  than  a  hundred 
miles  below  Calcutta,  and  Mr.  Martyn  was  directed  to 
hire  a  sloop  to  convey  them  down  the  river,  and  not  to 
forget  to  send  them  under  charge  of  a  police  guard. 

Armed  with  this  authority,  Mr.  Martyn  sent  a  police 
officer  to  the  residence  of  the  missionaries  in  Calcutta, 
and  ordered  them  not  to  quit  it  without  per- 
mission.    At  the  same  time,  their  names  were  •elcri^Jilrdi 

...  ...  tt     t  i«     the  miMfonariea. 

inserted  in  the  public  papers,  as  "  charter  party 
passengers,  on  the  vessel  in  which  they  had  been  directed 
to  embark.     They  felt  that  to  proceed  to  England  would 
be  to  break  up  their  missionary  enterprise  altogether, 
more  especially  as  a  war  between  England  and  America 


Digitized  by 


Google 


490  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  IX 

was  then  impending ;  they  determined,  therefore,  to  run 
every  risk  to  avoid  such  a  disaster.  Mr.  Judson  heard  of 
a  vessel  proceeding  to  the  Isle  of  France,  and  having 
prevailed  on  the  commander,  to  whom  he  related  the 
position  in  which  he  stood,  to  connive  at  his  .embarka- 
tion with  his  wife  and  his  associate,  left  Calcutta  at 
midnight  and  went  on  board.  But  they  could  not  evade 
the  vigilance  of  Mr.  Martyn,  who  was  determined  that 
they  should  not  escape  the  ignominy  of  a  passage  to 
England  in  the  gunner's  mess.  The  police  constables 
whom  he  had  stationed  to  watch  their  movements,  reported 
that  they  had  gone  on  board  ths  "Creole,"  and  Mr. 
Martyn  immediately  wrote  to  Government  to  report  the 
"  contumacious  conduct  of  the  missionaries,  who,"  he  said, 
"  had  concealed  themselves,  or  were  concealed  by  others, 
and  had  thus  defeated  the  orders  of  Government  for  their 
deportation  to  England."  He  stated  that  he  was  led  to 
believe  that  they  would  "  clandestinely  attempt  to  get  on 
board  the  c  Creole/  and  that  he  had  therefore  procured  an 
order  to  the  pilot  not  to  proceed  with  her  to  sea."  The 
"  Creole  "  was  anchored  off  the  hotel  at  Fort  Gloucester, 
fifteen  miles  below  Calcutta,  when  the  order  was  delivered 
to  the  pilot,  forbidding  him  to  proceed  down  the  river,  as 
the  commander  was  suspected  of  having  persons  on  board 
who  had  been  ordered  to  England.  Mr.  Judson  and  his 
companion  immediately  went  on  shore  in  a  state  of  the 
deepest  anxiety.  A  personal  reference  was  made  to 
Calcutta  to  procure,  if  possible,  a  reversal  of  the  order,  but 
without  success.  In  the  course  of  the  evening,  a  letter 
arrived  from  the  owner  of  the  vessel,  stating  that  he  had 
called  at  the  police  office  to  inquire  why  his  vessel  was 
detained,  and  was  informed  that  there  were  said  to  be 
persons  on  board  whom  the  commander  was  not  at  liberty 
to  receive.  The  pilot  immediately  furnished  a  certificate 
that  there  was  no  such  party  at  the  time  on  board,  and 
the  vessel  was  soon  after  permitted  to  proceed  on  her 
voyage.     The  two  missionaries  now  proceeded  farther 


i 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1812.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SEBAMPOBB  MISSION.  491 

down  the  river  to  another  hotel  at  Fulta,  where  they  found 
a  vessel  anchored  abreast  of  it,  bound  to  Ceylon.  They 
stated  the  circumstances  of  their  case  to  the  commander, 
but  he  refused  to  incur  the  risk  of  receiving  those  who 
were  under  the  ban  of  Government.  They  returned  in  a 
disconsolate  frame  of  mind  to  the  inn,  not  knowing  what 
course  to  pursue,  but  still  feeling  that  the  most  dangerous 
would  be  that  of  returning  to  Calcutta,  where  they  must 
at  once  fall  into  the  hands  of  Mr.  Martyn.  But  a  letter 
was  unexpectedly  placed  in  their  hands,  containing  per- 
mission to  embark  in  the  "  Creole."  They  immediately 
hired  a  boat,  and,  rowing  day  and  night,  succeeded  in 
overtaking  that  vessel  below  the  new  anchorage,  just  as 
the  pilot  was  preparing  to  weigh  anchor  for  the  last  time. 
The  cause  of  their  deliverance  was  subsequently  revealed 
in  the  correspondence  of  Government.  It  appears  that 
when  Mr.  Martyn  reported  that  he  had  ordered  the  vessel 
in  which  Mr.  Judson  and  his  wife  and  colleague  had 
embarked  for  the  Mauritius  to  be  detained,  Lord  Minto, 
remembering  that  he  had  previously  given  them  permis- 
sion to  proceed  to  that  island,  did  not  deem  it  advisable 
to  interrupt  their  progress.  At  any  rate  they  would  be 
out  of  the  territories  of  the  Honourable  Company. 

The  two  remaining  missionaries,  Mr.  Hall  and  Mr. 
Nott,  escaped  to  Bombay,  and  the  circumstance  was  not 
repprted  to  Government  till  after  the  vessel 
had  left  the  river.  The  magistrate  was  re-  ^SSmia9!' 
quested  to  explain  why  he  had  allowed  them  to 
proceed  to  another  Presidency,  when  orders  had  been 
issued  for  them  to  be  sent  to  England.  Mr.  Martyn 
replied  that  the  missionaries  had  continued  to  loiter  in 
Calcutta,  and  as  several  attempts  had  been  made  to  evade 
the  orders  of  Government,  he  had  directed  the  police 
officers  to  watch  them,  and  report  their  movements  ;  that 
from  the  time  when  the  orders  of  Government  had  been 
made  known  to  them,  they  had  clandestinely  withdrawn 
from  their  usual  place  of  residence,  and  were  so  effectually 


Digitized  by 


Google 


492  bistort  of  the  sebampore  mission    [Chaf.ix. 

secreted  by  those  who  espoused  their  interests,  that  they 
eluded  all  inquiry,  and  had  at  length  taken  their  passage 
for  Bombay  without  the  privity  of  the  police,  and  that 
this  fact  came  to  his  knowledge  too  late  to  stop  them. 
A  letter  was  immediately  sent  from  the  Council  Chamber 
to  the  Governor  of  Bombay,  directing  that  the  mission- 
aries should  be  sent  to  Europe  as  soon  as  they  landed. 
They  reached  the  port  on  the  15th  of  February,  1813,  and 
were  immediately  summoned  to  the  police  office,  where 
the  magistrate  informed  them  that  they  had  incurred 
the  severe  displeasure  of  Government,  and  were  required 
to  provide  themselves  with  a  passage  to  Europe  by  the 
first  vessel.  They  expressed  deep  regret  that  their 
conduct  should  have  made  an  impression  on  Government 
injurious  to  the  character  they  wished  to  maintain,  and 
affirmed  with  confidence  that  a  full  explanation  of  their 
proceedings  would  assuredly  remove  that  impression. 
They  stated  that  the  war  which  had  just  broken  out 
between  Great  Britain  and  the  United  States  had  cut  them 
off  from  all  their  resources,  and  that  it  was  completely 
out  of  their  power  to  raise  funds  for  a  passage  to  England. 
The  proceedings  of  the  Government  of  Bombay  in  this 
case,  will  be  given  in  a  subsequent  page. 

Having  thus  chased  the  five  American  missionaries  from 
the  Presidency  of  Bengal,  and,  as  it  was  hoped,  from  the 
»  _,.  continent  of  India,  Lord  Minto's  Government 

Proceedings  '     # 

mSXi^"  proceeded  to  wreak  its  vengeance  on  the  mis- 
Johns"  sionaries  connected  with  the  establishment  at 

Serampore.  It  has  been  stated  that  Dr.  Carey  and  his 
colleagues,  encouraged  by  the  friendly  disposition  of  Go- 
vernment in  1810,  advised  Mr.  Fuller  to  send  out  the 
missionaries  who  were  ready  to  embark,  assuring  him  that 
they  would  not  be  dealt  with  as  Mr.  Chater  and  Mr. 
Kobinson  had  been  treated  in  1806.  Mr.  Fuller  lost  no 
time  in  sending  Mr.  Johns  and  Mr.  Lawson  to  America, 
to  take  the  first  ship  to  India.  They  were  detained  in 
that   country  more  than  a  twelvemonth,   during  which 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1812.]  HISTOBY  OF  THE  SERAMPOBE  MISSION.  493 

Mr.  Johns  revived  the  interest  which  had  been  created  in 
the  missionary  labours  of  Serampore,  and  more  especially 
in  the  translations,  and  succeeded  in  raising  800£.  He 
and  his  companion  then  embarked  for  Calcutta,  which 
they  reached  on  the  15th  of  August.  The  hostility  mani- 
fested in  the  case  of  Mr.  Judson,  two  months  before, 
convinced  the  Serampore  missionaries  that  the  old  feeling 
against  missions  was  again  in  the  ascendant  in  the  Council 
Chamber,  and  they  felt  no  little  alarm  in  reference  to  the 
brethren  whom  they  themselves  expected,  for  the  mission 
had  no  longer  the  shelter  of  a  foreign  flag.  The  day 
after  Mr.  Judson  had  been  ordered  to  quit  the  country, 
Dr.  Marshman  wrote  to  Mr.  Edraonstone,  the  Chief  Secre- 
tary to  Government,  stating  that  he  and  his  colleagues 
had  just  heard  that  Mr.  Lawson  and  Mr.  Johns  might  be 
shortly  expected  in  an  American  vessel,  and  they  were 
anxious  to  obtain  permission  for  them  to  remain  in  India 
till  the  pleasure  of  the  Court  of  Directors  should  be 
known.  Mr.  Edmonstone  was  directed  by  Lord  Minto  to 
state  that  the  Government  of  India  did  not  possess  the 
power  of  granting  licenses  to  British  subjects  to  reside 
in  India,  but  would  not  object  to  the  residence  of  the 
expected  missionaries  till  a  reference  could  be  made  to 
England.  The  Serampore  missionaries  now  thought  them- 
selves safe.  They  expected  that  the  question  of  the  new 
charter  would  come  under  discussion  when  the  refer- 
ence arrived,  and  that  the  most  strenuous  efforts  would 
be  made  by  the  religious  public  of  England  to  obtain  a 
legal  settlement  for  missionaries.  They  were  confident 
that,  at  such  a  crisis,  the  Court  of  Directors  would  feel 
little  disposition  to  incur  the  odium  of  having  actually 
ordered  the  expulsion  of  missionaries  from  the  soil  of 
India.  Soon  after  the  arrival  of  Mr.  Johns,  the  medical 
officer  of  the  settlement  of  Serampore  was  obliged  to 
proceed  to  sea  for  the  benefit  of  his  health,  and  Mr.  Johns 
was  directed  to  officiate  for  him ;  he  had  thus  the  ad- 
ditional security  of  a  Government  appointment. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


494  HISTORY  OF  THE  SEBAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chap.  IX. 

Mr.  Robinson,  as  already  stated,  had  determined,  at  the 

beginning  of  the  year  1812,  to  proceed  to  the  island  of 

Java,  and  commence  missionary  operations.   On 

embarks  fo^jara,  the  conquest  of  the  island,  Lord  Minto  had  in- 

but  returns*  * 

stalled  Mr.  Raffles  as  Governor,  and  he  imme- 
diately wrote  to  Dr.  Marshman,  to  renew  his  request  for 
missionaries  to  look  after  the  interests  of  some  200,000 
Christians,  and  "rescue  the  heathen  from  superstition." 
Dr.  Marshman  waited  on  Lord  Minto,  who  had  now  re- 
turned from  the  island  to  the  seat  of  Government,  and  on 
the  strength  of  Mr.  Raffles's  letter,  solicited  permission 
for  Mr.  Robinson  to  proceed  as  a  missionary  to  Java. 
Lord  Minto  desired  that  the  application  should  be  officially 
made,  and  Mr.  Edmonstone  replied  to  it,  that  the  Govern- 
ment  of  India  did  not  interfere  in  the  affairs  of  Java,  but 
as  his  Lordship  was  convinced  that  Mr.  Robinson  would 
conform  to  the  local  regulations,  he  could  perceive  no 
objection  whatever  to  his  proceeding  thither.    Mr.  Robin- 
son was  detained  several  months  for  a  vessel,  and  did  not 
sail  before  the  month  of  June.      The  vessel,   however, 
proved  unseaworthy,  and  the  commander,  after  encounter- 
ing a  violent  gale  in  the  Bay,  put  back  to  Calcutta.     But 
Mr.  Robinson  escaped  the  dangers  of  the  sea  only  to  fall 
into  the  jaws  of  danger  on  shore.     No  private  vessel  was 
laid  on  for  Java  for  several  months.  One  of  the  Honourable 
Company's  ships  was  at  length  directed,  at  the  close  of  the 
year,  to  visit  the  eastern  islands,  which  had  been  conquered 
from  the  Dutch,  but  the  commander  could  not  receive 
any  passenger  without  an  express  order  from  Government. 
Mr.  Edmonstone  had  been  raised  to  the  Supreme  Council, 
and  Mr.  Charles  Milner  Ricketts  then  filled  the  office  of 
Secretary.     On  the  4th  of  January,  1813,  Dr.  Marshman, 
utterly  unconscious  of  the  storm  which  was  then  lower- 
ing, waited  on  Mr.  Ricketts,  and  requested  an  order  for  Mr. 
Robinson  to   be  received  on  board,   which,   after  Lord 
Minto's  assurance,  he  expected  to  receive  without  hesitation. 
Mr.  Ricketts  said  he  was  happy  to  see  him,  as  he  was  on 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1812.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SBRAMPORB  MISSION.  495 

the  point  of  writing  to  him  for  an  account  of  Messrs.  Johns, 
May,  and  Lawson,  the  three  remaining  missionaries,  and 
the  reason  of  their  having  come  out  by  way  of  America ; 
and  he  wished  the  statement  to  be  sent  to  him  in  writing. 
As  Dr.  Marshman  had  now  alluded  to  another  mis- 
sionary, Mr.  Robinson,  as  being  in  the  country,  he  wished 
that  the  report  should  include  his  case  also.  Dr. 
Marshman  informed  Mr.  Ricketts  in  a  semi-offi-  co^^SS* 

with  Mr.  Ricketts. 

cial  letter,  that  Government  had  already  given 
permission  to  two  of  these  missionaries  to  remain  in  the 
country  till  the  pleasure  of  the  Court  of  Directors  could  be 
known,  and  to  Mr.  Robinson  to  proceed  to  Java,  and  that  Mr. 
May  was  not  connected  with  their  missionary  establishment. 
Mr.  Ricketts  acknowledged  the  receipt  of  the  letter  the 
same  day,  and  stated  that  these  facts  were  not  sufficient  to 
warrant  their  remaining,  in  India,  but  he  desired  to  know, 
before  he  proceeded  to  act,  why  these  gentlemen  had  come 
out  by  way  of  America  instead  of  coming  direct  from 
England,  with  the  permission  of  the  Court  of  Directors ; 
he  also  required  a  brief  notice  of  each  individual.  Dr. 
Marshman  now  began  to  suspect  that  Government  had 
adopted  the  determination  of  expelling  these  missionaries 
likewise,  and  that  Mr.  Ricketts  desired  to  draw  from 
him  a  written  acknowledgment  that  they  were  in  India 
without  a  license,  that  he  might  act  upon  it.  He  de- 
termined, therefore,  whether  right  or  wrong  must  be  left 
to  the  judgment  of  the  candid,  to  stave  off  the  written 
communication  of  the  fatal  fact  that  they  were  unlicensed, 
to  the  last  practicable  moment,  in  the  hope  that  some  path 
might  open  in  the  meantime  to  escape  from  the  impending 
danger.  He  was  not  without  a  hope  of  being  able  to  pro- 
long the  correspondence  till  some  notice  of  the  proceedings 
in  England  connected  with  the  New  Charter,  might  reach 
India,  and  induce  Government  to  pause  in  this  career  of 
violence.  Perhbps  it  is  no  violation  of  Christian  charity  to 
suppose  that  the  same  expectation  may  have  created  a  desire 
in  the  minds  of  those  members  of  Government  who  were  un- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


496  HISTORY  OP  THE   SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Ch^.  U& 

favourable  to  missions,  to  precipitate  their  proceedings, 
was  well  known  that  eight  months  previously,  the  Ministry 
had  announced  to  the  Court  of  Directors  their  determi-j 
nation  to  abrogate  the  traditionary  policy  of  exclusion,  and! 
permit  Europeans  to  settle  in  India.     The  announcement 
had  shaken  the  India  House  to  its  foundation.     The  legal 
toleration  thus  to  be  given  to  secular  persons  could  not  of 
course  be  withheld  from  missionaries,  and  the  present  was 
the  last  occasion  on  which  there  would  be  any  opportunity 
of  expelling  them  from  India.     Dr.  Marshman  did   not 
deem  it  advisable  to  place  in  the  hands  of  Mr.  Ricketts 
a  document  which  would  enable  him  at  once  to  suggest 
that  the  "  standing  orders  of  the  Court "  should  be  enforced 
by  their  deportation,  as  being  in  India  without  the  per- 
mission   of    the    Court.      He,    therefore,    confined    his 
reply  to  the  latter  portion  of  the  request,  and  furnished 
Mr.  Ricketts  with  full  details  of  the  education,  qualifica- 
tion, and  families  of  the  three  missionaries.     Mr.  Ricketts 
wrote  again  on  the  7th  of  January  to  say  that  Dr.  Marsh- 
man's  letter  only  supplied  part  of  the  requisite  information, 
but  the  point  still  wanting  was  the  circumstance  which 
induced  the  missionaries  respectively  to  come  out  by  way 
of  America.     Dr.  Marshman,  knowing  the  delicate  ground 
on  which  he  was  treading,  still  replied  with  great  caution 
and  reserve,  and  gave  a  variety  of  reasons  for  choosing  the 
American  route.     Mr.  Ricketts  wrote  back  sharply  to  say 
that  the  information  he  still  wanted  was,  whether  the  three 
missionaries  then  at  Serampore  did  or  did  not  apply  to 
the  Court  of  Directors  for  permission  to  come  out  to  India 
— and  that  Dr.  Marshman's  silence  on  that  point  would  be 
regarded  as  an  admission  that  no  such  application  had 
been  made.     To  this  letter  Dr.  Marshman  replied  the  next 
day,  that  he  had  reason  to  believe  that  no  such  application 
was  made.     Here  the  semi-official  correspondence  termi- 
nated. 

The  object  of  the  correspondence  had  now  been  attained. 
The  fact  had  been  extracted  from  Dr.  Marshman,  not 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1812.]  HISTOBY   OF   THE   SERAMPORB  MISSION.  497 

merely  that  they  were  in  India  unlicensed,  but  that  they 
did  not  apply  for  a  licence,  because  they  knew  it  would  be 
refused.     These  circumstances  were  of  course 
fully  known  to  the  Secretary  before  he  entered  SSZi&SSi,?* 
on  this  correspondence,  but  it  was  necessary  to  UobjecU 
obtain  a  written  statement  of  them.     Dr.  Marshman's  last 
letter  was  now  submitted  to  the  Supreme  Council,  and  in 
less  than  a  week  a  communication  was  sent,  in  due  official 
form,  stating  that,  "  in  reference  to  the  application  which 
had  been  made  in  a  private  form,  requesting  the  sanction 
of  Government  for  Messrs.  Lawson,  Johns,  and  Robinson 
to  remain  in  India,  the  Governor-General  requested  Dr. 
Marshman  to  call  on  those  gentlemen  to  report  whether 
or  not  they  had  applied  to  the  Court  of  Directors  for  per- 
mission to  resort  to  India ;  and  if  they  did  not  apply,  the 
cause  of  their  not  having  done  so."     It  is  material  to 
remark  that  the  assertion  made  in  this  letter,  that  the 
movement  of  Government  in  the  case  of  these  missionaries 
arose  out  of  an  application  for  them  to  reside  in  India, 
was  perfectly  gratuitous,  and  must  have  been  known  to 
be  such  by  the  Secretary  who  drafted  the  letter.    No  such 
permission  was  sought,  because  two  of  the  number  had 
obtained  liberty  to  remain  in  India  six  months  before, 
and  the  other  had  already  resided  six  years  in  India,  and  had 
permission  from  Government  to  leave  it  for  Java.    This  act 
of  interference  was  the  spontaneous  impulse  of  Govern- 
ment. To  this  letter  Dr.  Marshman  sent  in  a  reply,  embody- 
ing all  the  information  regarding  the  missionaries  which  he 
had  given  in  his  previous  correspondence  with  Mr.  Ricketts. 
He  stated  that  his  colleagues  and  he  had  reason  to  believe 
that  no  application  was  made  to  the  Court;  that  this 
omission  arose  from  no  disrespect  to  that  body,  but  from 
the  idea  that  it  was  their  general  rule  to  grant  express 
permission  to  reside  in  India  to  none  except  those  em- 
ployed in  their  service ;  and  that  the  Baptist  Missionary 
Society,  not  expecting  that  they  would  break  through  this 
rule  for  the  sake  of  a  few  obscure  individuals,  forbore  to 

VOL.  I.  K  K 


Digitized  by 


Google 


498  HISTORY  07  THE  SERAMPORB  MISSION.      [Chap.  EX. 

harass   them  by  a  fruitless   application.      At  the    same 
time,  knowing  that  many  individuals  were  permitted  to 
reside  in  the  country  who  had  never  obtained  a  licence 
from  the  Honourable  Court,  the  Society  sent  Mr.  Johns 
and  Mr.  Lawson  out  by  way  of  America,  hoping  that,  as 
long  as  their  conduct  was  found  to  be  correct,  they  would 
experience  the  same  indulgence  from  Government  which 
was  extended  to  so  many  other  Europeans  in  India.     In 
an  age  of  freedom  like  the  present,  the  tone  of  this  letter 
may  appear  in  some  degree  deficient  in  manliness  and  dig- 
nity, but  the  reader  must  place  himself  in  the  position  of 
the  Serampore  missionaries,  and  remember  that  they  were 
absolutely  at  the  mercy  of  a  despotic  and  irresponsible 
Government,  which  was  then  in  the  mood  of  making  their 
despotic  power  the  instrument  of  oppression.     He  must 
bear  in  mind  that,  unless  Government  could  be  mollified, 
either  the  missionaries  and  their  wives  must  proceed  to 
England  in  the  gunner's  mess,  or  the  funds  of  the  mission 
must  be  wantonly  saddled  with  a  charge  of  1500/.  for  a 
comfortable  passage  to  England,  and  of  a  sum  scarcely  less 
in  amount  for  sending  them  back  again  to  India.     But 
every  attempt  to  propitiate  Government  proved  fruitless. 

Lord  Minto  appears  to  have  been  five  weeks  making  up 
his  mind  as  to  the  course  he  should  pursue,  and,  unhappily 
Lord  Minto  de-  f°r  ^e  credit  of  his  administration,  which  was 
SKto&nE*  generally  characterised  by  mildness  and  libe- 
•ionariet,  rality,  he  allowed  his  own  more  generous  feel- 

ings to  be  overborne  by  the  coterie  of  secretaries,  and  on 
the  5th  of  March  issued  the  order  for  the  immediate 
expulsion  of  the  three  missionaries,  making  in  all  eight 
missionary  evictions  in  nine  months.  They  were  ordered 
to  embark  on  one  of  the  vessels  of  the  fleet  which  was 
timed  to  leave  the  port  on  the  1st  of  April.  On  the  same 
day  Mr.  Ricketts  sent  an  extract  from  the  proceedings  of 
the  Governor-General  in  Council  to  the  magistrates  of 
Calcutta,  desiring  them  to  be  careful  to  cause  these  gen- 
tlemen to  embark  for  Europe  at  the  period  prescribed,  and, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1812.]  HISTORY   OF  THE  8ERAMPOBE  MISSION.  499 

if  necessary,  to  apply  for  "  the  warrant  which  the  Governor- 
General  was  authorised  to  issue  in  cases  of  this  nature ;" 
in  other  words,  to  apprehend  the  missionaries,  if  necessary, 
and  convey  them  on  board  under  the  charge  of  a  police 
guard— -an  injunction  which  Mr.  Martyn  was  not  likely  to 
neglect.  As  if  to  aggravate  the  harshness  of  this  proceed- 
ing, this  order,  which  was  dated  the  5th  of  March,  was 
detained  in  the  Secretary's  office  an  entire  week  before  it 
was  issued.  The  fleet  in  which  the  three  missionaries 
were  ordered  to  embark  consisted  of  two  vessels,  lying  at 
the  New  Anchorage,  in  the  open  sea,  a  hundred  miles  below 
Calcutta.  The  south-west  monsoon  had  set  in,  and  the 
"  Sagor  boats,"  as  they  were  termed,  resembling  the  pilot 
boats  in  the  English  Channel,  were  often  four  or  five  days 
reaching  it.  A  voyage  to  England  at  that  season  of  the 
year  often  occupied  five  or  six  months,  and  a  long  period 
was  required  for  the  preparation  of  the  outfit.  It  was  in 
these  circumstances  that  the  communication  was  delayed 
for  six  weeks,  leaving  only  a  fortnight  for  all  the  arrange- 
ments of  the  voyage. 

Mr.  Martyn,  however,  lost  no  time.     The  day  after  he 
received  the  communication  from  the  Secretary's  office  he 
sent  a  European  police  officer  to  summon  the 
missionaries  to  his   office  in   Calcutta.     Dr.  «»»i«Ed2 

the  Police  Office. 

Marshman  had  taken  advantage  of  the  pro- 
tracted discussions  in  the  Supreme  Council  to  hasten  Mi\ 
Robinson's  embarkation  for  Java  in  a  private  vessel,  and 
the  pilot  had  left  her  at  sea  a  day  or  two  before  the  order 
for  his  deportation  to  England  arrived  at  Serampore.  Mr. 
Johns  replied  to  the  magistrate's  summons  that  he  was 
requested  by  the  British  Commissioner  of  Serampore  not 
to  quit  his  medical  charge.  Mr.  Lawson,  in  company 
with  Dr.  Marshman,  repaired  to  the  Police  Office  in  Cal- 
cutta on  the  13th  of  March,  when  Mr.  Martyn  drew  up 
the  form  of  an  engagement  for  his  signature,  by  which  he 
was  to  pledge  himself  positively  to  embark  on  one  of  the 
two  vessels  lying  at  Sagor.    Dr.  Marshman  represented  to 

K  K  2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


500  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPOEB  MISSION.      [Chaf>.  IX. 

him  that  it  was  scarcely  twenty -four  hours  since  they  had 
been  made  acquainted  with  the  orders  of  Government,  that 
they  were  entirely  ignorant  of  the  accommodation    the 
ships  might  afford,  as  nearly  all  the  cabins  had  already 
been  engaged,  and  that  there  had  not  been  time  to  con- 
sider the  arrangements  necessary  for  the  infant  families  of 
the  missionaries.     He  stated,  moreover,  that  it  was  their 
intention  to  memorialise  Government  for  a  mitigation  of 
the  order,  and  that  any  such  application  would  be  defeated 
by  so  positive  an  engagement  as  Mr.  Lawson  was  required 
to  sign.     This  representation  served  only  to  exasperate 
Mr.  Martyn,  who  took  up  the  paper  and,  having  made  the 
engagement  more  stringent,  desired  Mr.  Lawson  to  affix 
his  signature  to  it.     Dr.  Marshman  stated  that  Mr.  Lawson 
would  not  commit  himself  by  any  such  document,  though 
he  was  ready  to  sign  a  general  engagement  to  conform  to 
the  ultimate  wishes  of  Government,  whatever  they  might 
be.     "  Then,"  said  Mr.  Martyn,  "  I  shall  commit  him." 
"  You  will  do  as  you  like,"  replied  Dr.  Marshman,  u  but 
that  paper  he  shall  not  sign."     Mr.  Martyn  then  made  out 
an  order  for  bis  committal ;  and  he  was  placed 

Mr.  Lawton  If        •«•  «       <■  •.  i     1        •<i  J 

fweit con"  m  "ls  palankeen  and  surrounded  with  a  guard 
of  native  constables,  under  charge  of  a  European 
sergeant,  and  conveyed  to  the  Kuttra,  where  persons 
under  detention  were  ordinarily  locked  up.  Dr.  Marshman 
accompanied  him  to  the  jail,  and,  having  seen  him  de- 
posited in  a  room  with  a  native  cot  in  it,  on  which  he 
stretched  himself  very  composedly  for  the  night,  proceeded 
at  once  to  Mr.  Rickett9's  residence,  and  expostulated  with 
him  on  the  indignity  which  had  been  inflicted  on  Mr. 
Lawson,  in  being  conducted  like  a  felon  through  the  streets 
of  Calcutta.  Mr.  Ricketts  at  once  perceived  that  the 
matter  had  been  pushed  too  far,  and  instantly  signed  an 
order  for  his  release.  Dr.  Marshman  proceeded  with  it  to 
the  jail,  and  had  the  pleasure  of  conveying  Mr.  Lawson 
back  that  evening  to  Serampore.  On  the  succeeding 
Tuesday  he  appeared  again  at  the  Police  Office  with  Mr. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1812.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPOBE  MISSION/  501 

Lawson,  Mr,  Martyn  had  been  tamed  down  by  the 
peremptory  reversal  of  his  ordeiy  and  accepted,  without 
hesitation,  Mr.  Lawson's  general  acknowledgment  to  con- 
form to  the  wishes  of  Government. 

It  was  necessary  now  to  make  the  most  strenuous  efforts 
to  obtain  a  modification  of  the  decision  of  Government,  and 
Dr.  Marshman  determined  to  adopt  the  course 
which  had  proved  so  successful  in  1807,  and  SiciuTprwSe 
solicit  a  private  audience  of  Lord  Minto  at  Bar-  £35uKtV«ud 
rackpore.  Mr.  Johns  was  the  medical  officer 
of  the  station  of  Serampore,  in  the  service  of  Government, 
and  acted  under  the  orders  of  Mr.  Forbes,  the  com- 
missioner, who  had  assured  him  that  he  would  exert  all 
his  influence  to  secure  his  continuance  in  India.  Mr. 
Forbes  was  on  terms  of  great  intimacy  with  the  leading 
members  of  Government,  by  whom  he  was  held  in  high 
estimation ;  and  Mr.  Johns  naturally  placed  the  greatest 
reliance  on  his  efforts,  and  repeatedly  requested  that  his 
name  might  not  be  coupled  with  any  application  which 
was  made  on  behalf  of  Mr.  Lawson.  Dr.  Carey  was 
equally  sanguine  of  the  success  of  the  case  in  the  hands  of 
Mr.  Forbes ;  and  in  writing  to  Mr.  Fuller,  before  the  re- 
sult was  known,  said,  "  Mr.  Forbes's  application  on  Mr. 
Johns's  account  will  be  more  successful  than  ours,  and  he 
is  generously  using  all  his  influence  for  that  purpose." 
On  his  return  from  the  Police  Office  in  Calcutta  on  Tuesday, 
Dr.  Marshman  crossed  over  to  Barrackpore,  and  called  on 
Captain  Taylor,  Lord  Minto's  secretary,  and  requested  him 
to  solicit  a  private  audience,  stating,  at  the  same  time,  the 
object  with  which  it  was  sought.  Captain  Taylor  pro- 
mised to  communicate  this  request,  and  to  report  the 
result.  Lord  Minto  had  always  taken  a  lively  interest  in 
Dr.  Marshman's  Chinese  labours,  and  there  appeared  some 
faint  hope  of  obtaining  the  indulgence  of  Government 
by  dwelling  on  the  value  of  Mr.  Lawson's  assistance  in 
perfecting  the  Chinese  fount.  It  is  somewhat  humiliating 
to  reflect  that  the  only  argument  which  could  be  employed, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


502  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPORE  MISSION.      [Chaf.  IX. 

with  any  hope  of  success,  to  avert  the  expulsion  of  a  mis- 
sionary from  India,  was  that  his  mechanical  skill  would  be 
useful  in  an  object  of  literary  interest.  But  such  was  the 
position  of  affairs  at  that  period,  and  the  missionaries  were 
constrained  to  bend  to  circumstances.  In  the  evening 
Dr.  Marshman  drew  up  a  letter  to  Captain  Taylor  on  the 
subject,  which  was  intended  for  Lord  Minto's  eye.  It 
dwelt  more  particularly  on  the  important  services  of  Mr. 
Lawson  in  reference  to  the  Chinese  types,  and  was  accom- 
panied by  several  specimens  of  his  delicate  and  tasteful 
workmanship.  Dr.  Marshman  likewise  stated  that  it  was 
his  most  anxious  desire,  and  that  of  his  colleagues,  to 
obtain  leave  for  both  the  missionaries  to  remain  in  India 
till  the  arrival  of  a  reply  to  the  reference  which  had  been 
made  to  the  Court;  but  if  this  was  considered  too  great  an 
indulgence,  they  would  limit  their  solicitations  to  the  case 
of  Mr.  Lawson.  The  next  day  Captain  Taylor  informed 
Dr.  Marshman  that  Lord  Minto  declined  a  personal  inter- 
view ;  that  he  was  fully  aware  of  his  object,  but  as  the  order 
for  the  return  of  the  missionaries  to  England  was  an  act 
of  the  Government,  in  compliance  with  the  strict  in- 
junctions of  the  Court,  any  mitigation  of  it  could  only  be 
made  in  Council ;  his  lordship  would  therefore  direct  the 
present  application  to  be  brought  forward  at  the  Board. 
At  a  subsequent  interview  with  Captain  Taylor,  when 
Dr.  Marshman  inquired  the  reason  of  his  having  been  for 
the  first  time  refused  an  interview,  Captain  Taylor  said 
that  Lord  Minto  appeared  to  be  unwilling  to  encounter 
his  arguments  and  his  importunity,  to  which  he  was  afraid 
he  might  have  been  constrained  to  yield  before  the  close  of 
the  interview.  Lord  Minto,  having  taken  his  seat  at  the 
Council  Board,  found  that  he  had  left  Dr.  Marshman's 
letter  at  Barrackpore;  but  he  said  he  was  disposed  to  allow 
Mr.  Lawson  to  remain  and  complete  the  Chinese  fount. 
The  subject  was,  therefore,  postponed  to  the  26th,  and, 
after  the  meeting  of  Council,  Dr.  Marshman  called  on  Mr. 
Ricketts,  anxiously  inquiring  the  result,  and  was  informed 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1812.]  HISTORY  OP  THE   SBRAMPOBB  MISSION.  503 

that  Mr.  Lawson  had  been  allowed  to  remain,  but  that 
Mr.  Johns,  whose  medical  services  could  be  easily  supplied, 
was  peremptorily  ordered  to  return  to  England  by  the 
fleet  then  under  despatch.  A  passage  was  therefore  en- 
gaged the  next  day  for  5000  rupees,  and  Mr.  Johns  joined 
the  vessel  on  the  1st  of  April.  At  this  interview  Mr. 
Ricketts  enquired  whether  it  was  a  fact  that  Mr.  Robinson 
had  proceeded  to  Java,  and,  on  being  assured  that  such 
was  indeed  the  case,  stated  that  he  must  then  be  sent  back 
to  England  from  thence,  though  it  was  only  a  twelvemonth 
since  the  Secretary  had  stated  to  Dr.  Marshman  that  Go- 
vernment did  not  interfere  in  the  affairs  of  that  island. 
A  letter  was  immediately  despatched  to  Mr.  Raffles,  direct- 
ing him  to  send  Mr.  Robinson  to  England  with  all  speed. 
But  Mr.  Raffles  had  no  sympathy  with  the  anti-missionary 
feelings  which  pervaded  the  Calcutta  Secretariat,  and, 
instead  of  expelling  Mr.  Robinson,  afforded  him  every 
facility  for  the  prosecution  of  his  labours. 

This  unprovoked  and  unjustifiable  violence  reflects  great 
discredit  on  Lord  Minto's  government.  It  was  in  direct 
opposition  to  the  instructions  issued  to  him  by  the  Court 
of  Directors,  after  the  previous  persecution  in  1807.  It 
involved  the  odium  of  a  direct  breach  of  promise,  and  the 
Jesuitical  argument  by  which  it  was  attempted  to  exte- 
nuate this  conduct,  only  served  to  render  it  more  objec- 
tionable. Mr.  Adam,  one  of  the  secretaries  to  Government, 
endeavoured  to  exculpate  Government  from  the  oppro- 
brium of  having  permitted  Mr.  Johns  and  Mr.  Lawson  to 
remain  in  India  till  the  pleasure  of  the  Court  of  Directors 
was  known,  and  then  ordered  their  expulsion  before  the 
decision  could  arrive  from  England.  He  writes,  "  that  the 
permission  granted  to  Mr.  Johns  was  revoked,  in  con- 
sequence of  its  having  subsequently  come  to  the  knowledge 
of  the  Governor-General  in  Council,  that  Mr.  Johns  pur- 
posely abstained  from  applying  for  leave  to  come  out  to 
India,  because  he  was  aware  that  it  would  not  be  granted 
to  him.     His  coming  out  under  such  circumstances  must 


K   K    4 


Digitized  by 


Google 


504  HISTOEY  OF  THE   SERAMPOBE  MISSION.       [Chap.  IX, 

be  considered  as  tantamount  to  proceeding  against  the 
orders  of  the  Honourable  the  Court  of  Directors;    and 
consequently  the  permission  obtained  under  a  concealment 
of  facts,  the  knowledge  of  which  by  Government  would 
have  prevented  its  being  granted,  can  no  longer  be  in 
force,  and  it  is  accordingly  revoked."     But  the  vindication 
of  Dr.  Marshman's  memory  from  the  charge  of  having 
obtained  the  promise  of  Government  by  a  disreputable 
suppression  of  the  truth  is  easy.     There  was  no  conceal- 
ment of  any  fact  which  Dr.  Marshman  was  required,  even 
by  the  nicest  sense  of  honour,  to  communicate  to  Govern- 
ment.    The  permission  which  he  sought,  for  the  mission- 
aries to  remain  in  India  till  the  pleasure  of  the  Court  could 
be  known,  carried  with  it  the  fullest  acknowledgment  that 
they  had  come  out  without  a  licence.     Government  had 
nothing  to  do  with  the  reason  why  Europeans  had  pro- 
ceeded to  India  without  permission.     It  was  self-evident 
that  they  would  have  applied  for  permission,  if  there  had 
been  any  chance  of  obtaining  it.     The  simple  duty  of  the 
Government  of  India  was,  to  ascertain  whether  Europeans 
could  produce  the  authority  of  the  Court  for  being  found 
in  their  territories,  and  to  enforce  the  standing  orders  if 
they  could  not.     On  no  previous  occasion  had  Government 
ever  enquired  the  cause  of  their  not  having  applied  for  a 
licence.     The  object  of  Mr.  Ricketts's  enquiry,  why  the 
missionaries  had  come  out  by  way  of  America, — an  en- 
quiry without  precedent, — was  now  revealed.   Government 
found  itself  fettered  by  the  permission  which  had  been 
already  granted  to  the  missionaries  to  remain,  and  was 
anxious  to  discover  some  plausible  pretext  for  revoking  it. 
That  pretext  was  found  in  the  sophism,  that  they  had 
come  to  India  circuitously,  because  they  knew  the  licence 
would  be  refused  if  it  had  been  solicited ;  and  this  was  said 
to  be  equivalent  to  "  proceeding  against  the  orders  of  the 
Court."     But  those  orders  forbade  every  man  to  resort  to 
India  without  their  permission,  and  they  were  equally 
violated  if  he  came  out  without  a  licence  in  an  English 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1812.]  HISTORY  Off  THE  SERAMPORB  MISSION.  505 

or  in  a  foreign  vessel  To  charge  Dr.  Marshman  there- 
fore with  having  obtained  an  indulgence  for  his  friends  by 
a  concealment  of  facts,  which  had  never  before  been  made 
the  subject  of  enquiry,  and  which  Government  never 
expected  any  European  to  state,  was  to  add  insult  to 
injury.  The  slightest  examination  of  the  case,  apart  from 
the  passions  of  the  day,  will  at  once  dispel  the  charge,  and 
at  the  same  time  furnish  us  with  another  illustration  of 
that  economy  of  truth,  and  that  contempt  for  argument 
which  appears  to  be  so  often  associated  with  the  enjoy- 
ment of  absolute  power. 

This  correspondence  with  Government,  of  which  copies 
were  sent  to  the  Society  by  Mr.  Johns,  led  to  the  only 
misunderstanding  between  Mr.  Fuller  and  Dr.  Marshman 
which  occurred  during  their  long  and  cordial  intercourse. 
It  appears  that  the  Assistant-Secretary  of  the  London 
Missionary  Society  informed  Mr.  Fuller  that  he  had  heard, 
at  the  India  House,  of  a  paragraph  in  the  official  commu- 
nication from  Calcutta,  which  strongly  reflected  on  the 
conduct  of  the  Serampore  missionaries,  and  charged  them 
with  eluding  the  orders  of  Government.  Moreover,  one 
Dr.  Macaulay  had  heard  a  clergyman  in  Calcutta  say,  that 
the  missionaries  had  not  conducted  themselves  as  they  ought, 
and  that  he  was  not  surprised  at  Government  taking  such 
a  step.  That  clergyman  was  the  Rev.  Dr.  Ward,  who  had 
endeavoured  to  crush  the  Benevolent  Institution,  and  the 
value  of  his  opinion  in  such  a  case  it  is  easy  to  estimate- 
Mr.  Fuller  was  thus  led  to  adopt  the  conclusion  that  the 
charge  of  eluding  the  orders  of  Government  had  reference 
to  the  hesitation  evinced  by  Dr.  Marshman,  to  give  a 
direct  answer  to  the  enquiry  of  Mr.  Ricketts,  why  the 
missionaries  had  come  out  without  a  licence.  It  was 
under  the  influence  of  this  impression,  deepened  by  the 
sinister  representations  of  those  who  hated  Dr.  Marshman, 
that  he  was  led  to  remark  "  that  Dr.  Marshman's  private 
letters  to  Mr.  Ricketts  must  have  given  great  offence  to 
Government ;  that  if  they  had  felt  favourably  disposed  to 


Digitized  by 


Google 


506  HISTORY  OF  THE  SBRAMPOBE  MISSION,      [Chap.  EX. 

aid  the  missionaries,  yet  they  must  have  felt  indignant  at 
this,  and  if  unfavourable,  still  more  so.     Brother  Marsh- 
man  should  at  once,  when  the  question  was  put,  have 
avowed  the  whole  truth.     He  suspected  Government  of 
sorry  policy,  and  set  himself  to  counteract  it  by  conceal- 
ment, or,  at  least,  by  withholding  the  whole  truth.     Here 
lay  the  offence.     You  could  not  tell  their  reason  for  these 
enquiries.     By  their  forbearance  to  Mr.  May,  it  does  not 
appear  that  they  meant  any  evil.     But  whatever  their 
motives    I   conceive  no   artifice  or  concealment  should 
have  been  resorted  to."     These  remarks   exhibit   little 
of  Mr.  Fuller's  usual  discernment.     Government  had  just 
banished  five  missionaries  from  India  under  circumstances 
of  unprecedented  severity.     They  had  determined  to  take 
the  preliminary  steps  for  the  deportation  of  another  in- 
offensive individual,  who  had  been  quietly  residing  in  the 
country  for  seven  years  as  a  missionary,  while  hundreds 
in  the  same  unlicensed  predicament  with  him,   but  en- 
gaged in  secular  occupations,  were  left  without  molesta- 
tion.    To  imagine  in  these  circumstances  as  Mr.  Fuller 
did  that  Government  "  meant  no  harm  to  the  missionaries 
by  their  forbearance  towards  Mr.  May,"  is  altogether  pre- 
posterous.    Mr.  May  was  permitted   to  remain  as   the 
minister  to  a  European  congregation,  as  the  records  at  the 
India  House  testify,  and  not  as  a  missionary.     Dr.  Marsh- 
man,  in  his  letter  to  England  on  these  proceedings,  said : 
44  Thinking  that  the  Secretary  might  wish  to  draw  me  into 
a  confession  of  our  brethren's  having  violated  the  laws,  by 
coming  out  against  the  Company's  order,  I  described  the 
persons  but  omitted  saying  anything  on  the  other  head." 
On  this  Mr.  Fuller  remarks,  "  Here  lay  the  offence."     It 
appears  almost  incredible  that  Mr.  Fuller  could  have  sup- 
posed that  the   Government   of    India,   which  had  not 
ventured  to  banish  Europeans  from  India  on  more  than 
two  occasions  in  the  previous  twenty  years,  and  then  only 
on  strong  political  grounds,  should  determine  to  adopt  this 
extreme  °measure  in  the  case  of  three  individuals,  simply 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1812.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPOBE  MISSION.  507 

because  Dr.  Marshman  had  replied  to  one  portion  of  the 
Secretary's  letter,  and  passed  over  the  remainder  in  silence. 
Every  communication  sent  by  him  to  the  Secretary,  was 
seen  and  approved  by  both  Dr.  Carey  and  Mr.  Ward,  and, 
although  they  at  first  wished  the  fullest  information  to 
be  given  at  once,  they  yielded  to  Dr.  Marshman's  argument 
for  postponing  it  to  the  latest  moment.     It  was  the  de- 
termination to  banish  the  missionaries  which  led  to  the 
correspondence,  not  the  correspondence  which  occasioned 
the  order  of  banishment.     There  was  no  artifice  in  the 
correspondence.     The  Secretary  had  informed  Dr.  Marsh- 
man  that  he  desired  to  know  why  the  missionaries  had 
come  out  by  way  of  America  in  order  that  he  might  act 
upon  it,  and  Dr.  Marshman  hesitated  to  furnish  him  with 
a  document  which  would  be  immediately  turned  against 
him  and  his  cause.     He  was  in  fact  required  to  criminate 
himself  and  his  brethren,  and  he  temporised  as  long  as  pos- 
sible.    Neither  was  there  any  "  concealment "  of  the  fact 
that  the  missionaries  were  without  a  licence,  which  was  all 
that  the  Act  of  Parliament  empowered  the  Government  to 
enquire.     Whether  there  was  any  charge  of  concealment 
alleged  against  the  missionaries  in  the  despatch  which  an- 
nounced these  proceedings  to  the  Court,  cannot  now  be 
known,  for  that  document  has  strangely  disappeared  from 
the  records  of  Government,  both  in  Leadenhall  Street  and  in 
Calcutta,  and  every  effort  to  discover  it  has  proved  unavail- 
ing. If  the  word  was  used,  it  had  no  reference  to  this  "  private 
service"  correspondence,  but  to  the  permission  sought  in 
June  for  Mr.  Lawson  and  Mr.  Johns  to  remain  in  India 
till  the  pleasure  of  the  Court  could  be  known,  and  which 
was  readily  granted,  and  then  revoked,  on  the  contemptible 
quibble  that  Dr.  Marshman  had  withheld  the  fact  that  the 
Court  of  Directors  had  not  been  asked  for  a  licence,  be- 
cause it  was  known  that  they  would  refuse  it ! 

In  reply  to  Mr.  Fuller's  remarks,  Dr.  Carey  observed  that 
the  correspondence  was  for  a  time  only  private ;  that  it 
was  considered  an  officious  interference,  intended  to  draw 


Digitized  by 


Google 


508  HISTORY  OF  THE   SERAMPORE  MISSION.       [Chap.  EL 

out  an  admission  which  might  afterwards  be  turned  against; 
the  mission,  and  that  this  conviction  made  Dr.  Marshman 
cautious,  though  at  the  time  he  and  Mr.  Ward  wished  him 
to-be  explicit.  He  remarked  that  they  were  placed 
between  Scylla  and  Charybdis,  and  that  it  was  difficult  to 
know  how  to  act.  To  this  Mr.  Fuller  rejoined  in  the  last 
letter  but  one  which  he  wrote  to  Serampore  before  his 
death.  "  As  to  the  correspondence  with  Mr.  Ricketts,  in 
remarking  on  which  you  consider  me  just  but  not  merciful, 
having  expressed  my  thoughts,  I  thought  no  more  on  the 
subject,  and  I  hope  brother  Marshman  was  not  greatly 
wounded.  I  feel  my  deficiency  in  not  being  able  always 
to  express  my  sentiments  so  as  not  to  *  break  the  head-' 
I  hope  I  need  not  say  I  love  you  all,  and  hope  to  live  and 
die  with  you." 

In  writing  to  Mr.  Fuller  regarding  these  troubles,  Mr. 
Ward  said  he  suspected  the  "  Court  of  Directors  had  re- 
solved to  have  a  victim  or  two,  to  be  hung  up  in  terrorem 
as  an  example,  lest  the  country  should  be  inundated  with 
missionaries."  Dr.  Carey  remarked  that  their  necks  had 
been  more  or  less  under  the  yoke  ever  since  the  year  of 
the  pamphlets,  and  that  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel  stood 
in  much  the  same  political  light  as  committing  an  act  of 
felony.  He  said  he  had  endeavoured  to  acquit  the  Govern- 
ment of  religious  persecution,  but  was  sorry  to  say  that 
his  mind  would  not  do  it,  though  Lord  Minto  had  no 
dislike  to  them,  and  was  a  friend  to  liberty,  and  a  man  of 
the  mildest  manners,  and  not  a  persecutor.  He  then 
described  the  feelings  and  conduct  of  the  secretaries,  on 
whom  the  whole  blame  of  these  transactions  rests,  in  lan- 
guage of  the  greatest  severity.  "  The  Charter,"  he  says, 
"  allows  the  Company  to  send  all  interlopers  to  Europe. 
The  Company  have  been  clamorous  since  1807  in  requir- 
ing all  Europeans  to  be  sent  out  of  the  country.  Men 
in  office  insensibly  come  to  feel  the  claims  and  requisitions 
of  the  Company  as  their  own,  and  identify  themselves  with 
their  personal  feelings.     A  secretary  can  prepare  such  a 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1812.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SBEAMPOBE  MISSION.  509 

case  and  present  it,  that  Government  must  notice  it,  and 
all  this  without  personal  dislike  to  those  who  are  sufferers 
by  it.  I  never  heard  before  of  a  man  of  liberal  education, 
and  scientific  inclinations,  and  inoffensive  conduct,  being 
sent  to  Europe  unless  he  had  meddled  with  politics,  or  in 
some  other  way  made  himself  troublesome  to  Government, 
and  in  no  instance  of  a  man's  being  ordered  home  after 
seven  years'  peaceable  residence  in  it.  The  fault  lies  in 
the  clause  which  gives  the  Company  power  thus  to  send 
home  interlopers,  and  is  just  as  reasonable  as  one  which 
should  forbid  all  the  people  in  England,  a  select  few  ex- 
cepted, to  look  at  the  moon.  I  hope  this  clause  will  be 
modified  or  expunged  in  the  new  charter.  The  prohibition 
is  wrong,  and  nothing  that  is  riiorally  wrong  can  be  politi- 
cally right.  I  find  no  fault  with  our  Governor.  .  .  # 
You  must  not  attempt  to  send  out  any  more  missionaries 
without  leave  from  the  Court  of  Directors,  for  they  will 
certainly  be  sent  home."  Dr.  Carey  also  stated  that  Mr. 
Colebrooke,  who  had  recently  quitted  the  Council  after  his 
term  of  five  years,  had  observed  to  him  that  men  of 
scientific  acquirements  like  Mr.  Johns  were  the  very  men 
who  ought  to  remain,  and  that  though  the  orders  of  the 
Court  were  very  peremptory,  yet  Government  was  never 
driven  to  such  a  point  as  to  be  unable  to  exercise  its  dis- 
cretion, or  refer  a  matter  of  this  kind  to  England. 

This  last  and  most  grevious  persecution  was,  therefore, 
without  the  shadow  of  an  excuse.  The  proceedings  of 
1807  admitted,  at  least,  of  this  plausible  extenuation,  that 
they  were  connected  with  the  issue  of  tracts  and  pub- 
lications which  were  considered  inflammatory,  and  likely 
to  endanger  the  security  of  Government.  But  even 
the  palliation  of  a  panic  was  wanting  in  the  present 
case.  It  could  not  be  said  that  any  of  the  missionaries, 
whom  it  was  the  pleasure  of  Government  to  hunt  out  of 
the  country,  were  chargeable  with  «any  delinquency,  real 
or  imaginary.  Their  only  crime  was  that  of  being  mis- 
sionaries in  India  without  a  licence,  which  it  was  known 


Digitized  by 


Google 


510  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPOBE  MISSION.       [Chap.  IX 

that  the  authorities  at  the  India  House  would  not  gran; 
under  any  consideration.    The  excuse  was,  that  the  orden 
of  the  Court  of  Directors  regarding  the  expulsion  of  un- 
licensed Europeans  had  become  more  peremptory  within  the 
preceding  five  years.     For  this  statement  there  is  not  th* 
smallest  foundation.  After  the  most  careful  examination  of 
the  records  at  the  India  House,  no  such  orders  can  be  found. 
These  proceedings  have  inflicted  an  indelible  stigma  on 
the  Government  of  India ;  but  it  is  an  act  of  justice  to  the 
Court  of  Directors  to  state  that  they  are  in  no  measure 
responsible  for  them.     The  Court  opposed  the  introduc- 
tion of  missionaries,  because  they  were  of  opinion  that  re- 
ligious excitement  would  endanger  the  empire,  but  they 
were  equally  averse  to  the  adoption  of  any  harsh  measures 
against  them,  or  against  any  of  their  fellow-countrymen 
in  India.    Their  conduct  has  always  been  milder  and  more 
generous  than  that  which  the  Act  of  Parliament  enforced 
on  them.      If  their  injunctions  in  1808  regarding  the 
mode  in  which  the  missionaries  were  to  be  dealt  with  had 
not  been  totally  disregarded,  this  wanton  and  outrageous 
procedure  would  not  have  been  resorted  to.     It  was  the 
"wisdom"  of  Parliament  which  invested  the  Government  of 
India  with  despotic  authority  to  treat  interlopers  as  felons. 
The  Act  was  not  enforced  against  hundreds  of  our  fellow 
countrymen  who  were  residing  in  India  without  a  licence 
But  the  secretaries  to  Government  in  the  days  of  Lord 
Minto  were  virulently  opposed  to  all  missionary  exertions, 
and  they  were  enabled  to  indulge  their  own  feelings  under 
the  shelter  of  the  "  standing  orders  "  of  the  Court,  and  the 
provisions  of  an  Act  of  the  Imperial  Parliament.     Dr. 
Carey  remarks,  in  his  correspondence,  that   during  the 
eight  months  which  elapsed  between  the  embarkation  of 
Mr.  Johns  and  Lord  Minto's  own  departure  to  England, 
he  always  appeared  anxious  to  avoid  any  allusion  to  this 
unpleasant  subject.      On  the  first  occasion,  when  Dr. 
Marshman  met  him  after  these  proceedings,  and  alluded  to 
the  injury  which  had  been  thereby  inflicted  on  the  mis- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1812.]  HISTORY  OF  THE  SERAMPOBB  MISSION.  511 

sionaries,  Lord  Minto  endeavoured  to  excuse  himself  by 
throwing  the  entire  blame  on  the  peremptory  orders  of 
the  Court  of  Directors,  and  then  hastened  to  turn  the 
subject.  But  the  orders  of  the  Court  were  not  more  strin- 
gent in  1812  than  they  had  been  during  the  twenty  years 
preceding  it.  The  conduct  of  Government  in  Calcutta  on 
this  occasion  was  therefore  without  precedent,  without 
necessity,  and  without  justification. 


END  OF  THE  FIRST  VOLUME. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Lonxnrt 
nurrmD  bt  btottiswoodk  abb  co. 

BBW-STBBBT  SQUABS. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


LIST  of  WORKS  in  GENERAL  LITERATURE 

rUBLISHED  BY 

Messrs.  LONGMAN,  BEOWN,  GEEEN,  LONGMANS,  and  EOBEETS, 

39  PATEBKOSTEB  BOW,  LONDON. 


CLASSIFIED      INDEX. 


ksrrleulture   mad   Rural 
Affairs. 

Bayldon  on  Valuing  Rente,  ftc.  -  '* 

Cecil's  Stnd  Farm                 -       -  • 

Hoskyns's  Talpa    -        -        -       -  W 

London'*  Agriculture     -       -       -  12 

Low's  Element*  of  Agriculture      -  18 

Morton  on  Landed  Property         -  1* 

(Tarts.  Manufactures,  and 
Architecture. 

Bournrtm  tlrf  5cr*w  Propeller      -  4 

Briiide'i  Dictionary  ofS<i»nca,*e.  4 

"         Ortrii.ii-  LhiCOUtrj-        -  4 

CblTIvul  on  Colour                           -  ■ 

Cre»y'n  Civil  EnKtnrirmr                -  ■ 

F*itUirn  i  Ifrfonna    for  Engui.  "»  J 

GwiH'i  Ency-O^uf  Archit*f  rur-*  -  8 

gniSfJlflalplrtealfc.  Aejpto  -  « 

H  mm  [ph re  yi  >  Farabltt  1]  Lum  i  i  ■ J  ted  10 

Jiim'san-iSarrrd  A  L*tf  rU  i  J  H  rV  \rt  11 

"        Common  plate- Book     -  1* 

K iic.g  i  Pictui  i*»  JJtV  of  Lather    -  8 

Loudoa'i  Ears  I  Architecture        -  18 


[.nudnni  Harm  ft  mi  tincture        -  *• 
MacDoiuralTa  Cattpftignaof  Han- 

nibel        -----  13 

"            Theory  of  Wax        -  IS 

Moaeley'a  Engineering  -       -       -  18 

Pieese's  Art  of  Perfumery     -       -  N 

Richardson's  Art  of  Horsemanship  18 

Seoflern  on  Projectiles,  Ac.  -       -  19 

ScrlTenor  on  the  Iran  Trade  -       -  19 

Stark's  Printing    -       -       -       r  *> 

Steam- Engine,  by  the  Artisan  Club  4 

Ure"»  Dictionary  of  Arte,  Ac.         -  » 


Biography. 


Bodenstedt  and  Wagner's  Schamyl 
Brialmont's  Wellington 
Buneen's  Htppolytua 


Capgrave's  Henrice  - 
Cc^ayne's  Marshal  T^ranne  - 
Crosse's  (Andrew)  Memorials  - 
Forster's  De  Poe  and  Churchill  - 
Green's  Princesses  of  England  - 
Harford's  Life  of  Michael  Angelo- 
Hayward's  ('heeterneld  and  Belwyn 

Hoteroft's  Memoirs       - - 

Lardner's  Cabinet  Cyclopedia  - 
Maunder'e  Biogranhiea^reasury  - 
Memoir  of  the  Duke  of  Wellington 
Mountain's  (Col.)  Memoirs    -       - 

SchimmelPenninek's  (Mrs.)  Life  - 
Souther's  Life  of  Wesley  -  - 
«  Life  and  Correspondence 
Stephen'i  Ecclesiastical 1  Biography 
Stnckland's  Queens  of  England  - 
Sydney  Smith's  Memoirs  -  - 
Symond's  (Admiral)  Memoirs  - 
Taylor's  Loyola     -       -       - 

'-     Wesley    - 
Uwins's  Memoirs  -       -       -       - 
Waterton"e  Autobiography  A  Eeaaye 


Books  of  General  Utility. 

Acton's  Bread-Book  -  J 

"       Cookery     -       -       -  -  J 

Black's  Treatise  on  Brewing  -  -  * 

Cabinet  Oatetteer-       -       -  -  J 

CuaVsfavelwlTownBook     -  -  7 

Gllbarte  Logic  for  the  Million  •  J 

Hl*te  on  Etiquette        -       -  -  » 

HoV  to  Nurne«lck  Children-  -  10 

Hudson's  Emecutor'e  Guide   -  -  JO 

"     on  Making  Wills       -  -  10 

Eesteren's  Domestic  Medicine  -  11 

Lardner*t  Cabinet  Cyclopetdia  -  12 
Loudon's  Lady's  Country  Compa- 


nion 


-    IS 


Treasury  of  Knowledge  14 
Blogmphleal  Treasury  14 
Geographical  Treasury     18 


Maunders  Scientific  Treasury 
'"         Treasury  of  History     - 
"         Natural  History  - 
Piesse's  Art  of  Perfumery     - 
Pocket  and  the  Stud      • 
Pycroft's  English  Reading    - 
Recce's  Medical  Guide  -       - 
Rich's  Comp.  to  Latin  Dictionary 
Richardson's  Art  of  Horsemanship 
Riddle's  Latin  Dictionaries    - 
Rogct's  English  Thesaurus  - 
Rowton'i  Debater  - 

Short  Whist 

Thomson's  Interest  Tables   - 
Webster's  Domestic  Economy 
West  on  Children's  Diseases-       -    « 
WiUich's  Popular  Tables      -       -24 
Wilmot's  Blackstone    -       -       -    24 

Botany  and  Gardening. 

Hassan's  British  Freshwater  Algll  9 

Hooker's  British  Flora   -       -       -  9 

"       Guide  to  Kew  Gardens  -  9 

«<       u        u      Kew  Museum  -  9 

Lindley's  IntroducUon  to  Botany  12 

"        Theory  of  Horticulture  -  13 

Loudon's  Hortus  Brltannicus        -  13 

••         Amateur  Oardenrr        -  IS 

Trees  and  Shrubs  -       -  12 

"         Gardening                      -  }* 

"         Plants    -       -       -       -  IS 

Pereira's  Materia  Medlca      -       -  " 

Rivera's  Rose-Amateur's  Guide    -  19 

Wilson's  British  Mosses                -  34 

Chronology* 

Blair's  Chronological  Tables        -  4 

Brewer's  Historical  Atlas               -  « 

Bunsen's  Ancient  Eeypt       -       -  8 

Calendars  of  EnglUh  State  Papers  6 

Haydn's  Beiteon's  Iudea       -       -  ■ 
Jaquemet's  Chronology         -       -11 

«          Abridged  Chronolofry  -  1 1 

Nicolas's  Chronology  of  History  -  13 

Commerce  and  Mercantile 
Affairs. 

Gilbart's  Treatise  on  Banking       -  J 

Lorimer's  Young  Master  Manner  18 

Mackod's  Banking         -        -        -  1* 
M'Culloch'sCommerceANatigaUon  14 

Murray  pn  French  Finance   -        -  l« 

Scrirenor  on  Iron  Trade        -       -  W 

Thomson's  Interest  Tables    -       -  23 

Tooke's  History  of  Prices     -       -  23 

Criticism,    History,    and 
Memoirs. 

Blair's  Chron.  and  Hlstor. Tables  - 
Brewer's  Historical  Atlas  -  -  - 
Bunten's  Ancient  Egypt 

"  Hippolytus  -  - 
Calendars  of  Engluh  State  Papers 
Chapman's  O  uatavus  Adolphus  - 
Chronicles  ft  Memorials  of  England 
Conybeare  and  Howson's  St.  Paul 
Connolly's  Sappers  and  Miners  - 
Crowe's  History  of  France  - 
Gieig's  Essays         - 

"      Leiptic  Campaign     - 
Guraey's  Historical  Sketchee 
Hayward's  Essays  -        - 
Hcrschsl  •  Em«»  and  \iMtr.icU  - 


K^rnl'ln'*  \n(Elo-9aion 
LardneriCahhart  Cyclopedia      - 
Miiciul*jri  (  rit,  »H4l  Hist.  Em*ts 
**  Hiitar,  a i  England     - 

•*  Speech*!       -        -        - 

Mart mill's  Mi KrUaOeoa*  Works 
Hitt^rynrEturland - 
H'Cullwh'  iGr^r  a  pkicul  Dickon  sty 
Maunii'r'f  Trewu  f  y  a  f  llwtcry 
WemairnflLiB  DkiVf  at  Wdlinfton 
H<trtT»1fi't  HiilAry  at  Kom*  - 
"  R-ornun  n*j*«ljlie  - 

MilAET'a  Church  Ki»t?rf 
Moors'*  {TbDmit)  Memoir*,  Ac    - 
MttTt'i  C«tk.  LiLfraturc 


Normanby'i  Yc*rof  K«Tulati->n    -  17 

Pf  rry'i  Frank »        -                           -  17 

It  Jit^i'f  Journal     -        -        -        -  18 

tiinkc  «  KfnlininJ  A  Xj  i  iicn.l .  in  23 

JltJalf's  Lilin  Lciiiron                -  19 

Rofiera'f  Em^it*  fttitn  BrlinbrTUriswl9 

Roget's  KnaLi»h  Th^a-ifti-   -       -  19 

Kt-hrniii'i  iiiitur.  [if  rjr«*.:t           -  19 

^,put1jrtj'i.  Dnctqr  ^         -                  -  21 

Htcpbeo'i  Kri-]4r*ia»t1i:at  Rii^tj.  Jhj  21 

'i    jjrrTurp^  un  Ffur.-h  n.»wry  21 

SyiiD^y  Smilli's  Works                     -  20 

•*                 Srlocl  Wijrk*           •  22 

LccLqrra        *        •  21 

"             afsmoirs        -        -  20 

Taylor's  Loyola     -        -       -       -21 

"       Wesley            -       -       -  21 

Thirlwall's  History  of  Greece        -  23 

Thomas's  Historical  Notes            -  8 

Townsend's  State  Trials        -       -23 

Turkey  and  Christendom      -       -  23 

Turner's  Anglo-Saxons         -       -  23 

"       Middle  Ages    -       -       -  23 

«<       Sacred  Hbt.  of  the  World  23 

Uwins's  Msmoirs   -                         -  23 

Vehse's  Austrian  Court-        -       -  23 

Wade's  England's  Greatness        -  21 

Young's  Christ  of  History    -       -  24 


Geography  and  Atlases. 

Brewer's  Historical  Atlas     - 
Butler's  Geography  and  Atlases  • 


4 
8 

Cabinet  Gasetteer                           -  8 

Cornwall:  Its  Mines, Ac.      -       -  22 

Durrieu's  Morocco         -                -  22 

Hughes's  Australian  Colonies      -  22 

Johnston's  General  Gasetteer        -  11 
M'Culloch'a  Geographical  Dictionary  14 

"         Russia  and  Turks  j     -  22 

Meander's  Treasury  of  Geograph  y  1 3 

Mayne's  Arctic  Discoveries   -       -  22 

Murray's  Encyclo.  of  Geography  -  16 
Sharp's  British  Gaietteer      -       -20 

Jurenile  Books. 

Amy  Herbert-                               -  20 

CleveHall       -----  20 

Earl's  Daughter  (The)  -       -       -  20 

Experience  of  Life                           -  20 

Gertrude         -----  20 

Howltt's  Boy's  Country  Book        -  10 

"       (Mary)  Children's  Year    -  10 

I,ors       -       -----  20 

Katharine  Ashton          -       -       -  20 

Laneton  Parsonage        -       -       -  20 

Margaret  Pensive!  -       ...  20 

Pycroft's  Collegian's  Guide   -       -  18 

Ursula 20 

Medicine,  Surgery,  ssc. 


Brodle*s  Psychological  Inquiries  - 
Ball's  Hints  to  Mothers  -      -       - 
"     Managementof  Children    - 
Copland's  Dictionary  of  Medicine  - 
Cast's  Invalid's  Own  Book     - 
Holland's  Mental  Phystologv        - 
"       Medical  Notes  *nd  Reflect. 
How  to  Nurse  Sick  Children  - 
Kesteven's  Domestic  Medicine      - 
Pereira's  Materia  Medica 
Recce's  Medical  Guide 
Richardson's  Cold-  Water  Cure      - 


4 

8  ' 

8  i 


Spencer's  Psychology    ■ 
'^est  on  Diseases  oflnfi 


Wet 


Fancy  • 


Miscellaneous  and  General 
Literature. 

Bacon's  (Lord)  Works  -  3 
Carlisle's  Lectures  and  Addressee  22 
Defence  of  Sdipuo/Taith  -  7 
Eclipse  of  Faith  -  -  -  -  7 
Fischer's  Bacon  and  Realistic  Phi- 
losophy --■""  I 
Greathed's  Letters  from  Delhi  -  8 
Greyson's  Select  Correspondence  -  8 
Guraey's  Evening  Recreations  -  8 
Hassan's  Adulterations  Detected,**.  9 
Haydn'a  Book  of  Dignitiea  -  -  9 
Holland's  Mental  Physiology  -  9 
Hooker's  Eew  Guides    -       -       -  9 


Digitized 


by  Google 


CLASSIFIED  INDEX. 


Howitt's  Rural  Life  of  England     -  10 
"        Yiaitato  Remark  ablePlaces  10 

JtneMB'i  Commonplace-Book     -  11 

I^t  of  the  OM  Squire*        -       -  17 

Letter*  of  a  Betrothed   -       -        -  11 

Macanley's  Speeches                     -  13 

Maekintoeh'sMiscellaneous  Works  14 

Memoirs  of  a  MeKred' Armas       -  22 

Martineau's  Miscellanies      -       -  14 

Printing:  Its  Origin,  Ac.       -       -  22 

Pycrofvs  English  Reading    -       -  18 

Baikfs  on  Indian  Revolt       -        -  18 

Rees's  Siege  of  Lucknow       -       -  18 

Rich's  Comp.  to  Latin  Dictionary  18 

Riddle's  Latin  Dictionaries  -       -  18 

Rowton's  Debater                  -       -  19 
Seaward's  Narrative  ofhis  Shipwreck  19 

Sir  Roger  De  Cowley                    -  20 

8onthey's Doctor ,Ae.   -       -       -  21 

6ouTe*tre's  Attic  Philosopher        -  22 

"  Confessions  of  a  Working  Man  22 

Spencer's  Essays                            -  21 

Stow's  Training  System        -       -  21 

Thomson's  Laws  of  Thought        -  23 
Tighe  and  Dsvis's  Windeor  -       -23 

Townmrnd's  State  Trials       -       -  23 

Willich't  Popular  Table*       -       -  24 


Yonee's  English-Greek  Lexicon  -    24 
«       LstinGradus  -       -    24 

Zompt's  Latin  Grammar      -       -24 

Natural  History  in  general . 

CatloWs  Popular  Conchology  -  6 
Ephemera'!  Book  of  the  Salmon  -  7 
Garrett's  Marrels  of  Instinct  -  8 
Gosae's  Natural  History  of  Jamaica  8 
Kemp's  Natural  History  of  Creation  22 
Kirby  and  Spence's  Entomology  -  11 
Lee's  Elements  of  Natural  History  11 
Maunder's  Natural  History  -  -14 
Qnatre fages'  Naturalist's  Rambles  18 
Stonehense  on  the  Dog  •  -  21 
Turton'sShelWoiwjeBritiaMslands  23 
Van  derHoewn's  Zoology  •  -  23 
Von  Tschudi's  Sketches  in  the  Alps  22 
Waterton'sEssaysonNaturalHist.  24 
Youatt's  Th.  Dog  ....  24 
"       The  Horse       ...    24 

1-Volnme    Bncrotopeedias 
and  Dictionaries. 

Blaine's  Rural  Sports  -      4 

Brando's  Science,  Literature,  and  Art  4 

Copland  1  Dictionary  of  Medicine  -     6 

Cresy's  Ciril  Engineering  -      6 

Gwilt's  Architecture       ...      8 

Johnston's  Geographical  Dictionary  11 

Loudon's  Agrtosltnee  -    ]g 

"        Rural  Architecture        -    13 

"        Gardening  -    13 

'•        Plants    -       -       -       -    18 

"        Trees  and  Shrubs   -       -13 

M'Culloch'sGeographiealDtetionary  14 


DicUonaryofCommerce  14 
Murray's  Encyclo.  of  Geograpf 
Sharp's  British  Gaaetteer      - 


praphy  -    16 


Ure's  Dictionary  or  Arts,  Ac.  - 
Webster's  Domestic  Economy 


Religion*  *  Moral  Works. 

Amy  Herbert  -    20 

Bloomfield's  Greek  Testament        -      4 
Calrert's  Wife's  Manual        -       -      6 
ClereHall      .....    20 

Conybeare  and  Howaon's  St.  Paul      6 
Cotton's  Injunctions  in  Christianity  6 
Dale's  Domestic  Liturgy  -     7 

Defence  of  Sctipt4of  FmUk  -       -      7 
Earl's  Daughter  (The)   -       -       .20 
Eclipse  of  Faith     ...  7 

Englishman's  Greek  Concordance     7 
"  Heb.ftChald.CoBeurd.    7 

Experience  (The)  of  Life  -    20 

Gertrude  -       ....    20 

Harrison's  Light  of  the  Forge       -      6 
Home's  Introduction  to  Scriptures     9 
"       Abridgment  of  ditto        -    10 
Hue's  Christianity  in  China  -       -10 
Humphrc  ys'a  Parables  Illuminated   10 
"  -------  20 

11 
11 
11 

11 
11 
20 

8 
20 
11 
11 

6 
14 
20 
14 
14 


Irora  ;  or,  the  Two  Cousins 

"       Monastic  Legends  - 

"       Legends  of  the  Madonna 

Lectures  on  Female  Em. 

ployment     - 

Jeremy  Taylor's  Works-       -       - 

Katharine  Ashton  ... 

Konig*s  Pictorial  Life  of  Luther  - 

Lanefon  Parsonage        ... 

Letters  to  my  Unknown  Friends   - 

'*      on  Happiness     - 
Lyra  Germanics     - 
Maguire's  Rome     .... 
Margaret  Pereiral  -        -       -       - 
Martineau's  Christian  Life  - 

Hymns      -       -       - 


Martineau's  Studies  of  Christianity  14 
Merivale'e  Christian  Records  -  IS 
Milner's  Church  of  Christ  -  -  14 
Moore  on  the  Uee  of  the  Body  -  16 
"  "  Soul  and  Body  -  16 
"  *s  Man  and  his  MotiTea  -  16 
Morvoniem  .....  22 
Morning  Clouds  -  -  -  -  18 
NesJe's  Closing  Scene  -  -  -  17 
Pattison's  Earth  and  Word  -  .17 
Powell's  Christianity  without  Ju- 

daitm  -       -       ...       -  18 

Ranke's  Ferdinand  *  Maximilian     22 
Readings  for  Lent         ...    20 
"  Confirmation    -       -    20 

Riddle's  Household  Prayers  -       -    18 
Robinson's  Lexicon  to  the  Greek 

Testament 10 

8aints  onr  Example       -       -       -    19 

Sermon  in  the  Mount  -       -    19 

Sinclair's  Journey  of  Life      -       •    20 

Smith's  (Sydney)  Moral  Philosophy  21 

"       (C.V.)A^yrianPropheeies    20 

"       (G.)  Wesleysn  Methodism     20 

"       (J.)St.  Paml'.Rhipwreek-    20 

8outhey's  Life  of  Weoley       -       -    20 

Stephen's  Ecclesiastical  Biography  21 

Taylor's  Loyola      ....    21 

u       Wesley     -       -       -       -21 

Theologia  Germaniea    ...      6 

Thumb  Bible  (The)  -       -    21 

Turner's  Sacred  History.      -       .23 

Ursula 20 

Young's  Christ  of  History     -       -    U 
^*     Mystery  -       -       -       -    24 


Poetry  and  the  Drama. 

AlxIn'irrir/lflritithF'.-rl*      -        -  3 

ArntiM"*,  Mlto-^  „  -        -         -  3 

11        Form*      -  8 

Pit] he'*  -;Jo:*un4l  Pwlical  Works  3 

Gulden  iEJW  Ptn^hp,  I  Dm  trait  d      -  8 

L.  E.  L.4*Po*rira,]  W«rks                -  11 

T . to  W4  ..,.]  '1  \f,  tlwlc«ia  Osonienj  li  -  13 

Lyra  Germanic*     -        -                 -  0 

Macau  1b jr'a  Lap  oF  Ancient  Horn*  13 

M*l  FWald"*  V itli iD  and  V,  ithout  18 

Prynni     -        -         -  13 

Ui-.n(i£".nnrj'»  Poetical  Worki       -  16 

MlHitr'k  Pu'i-llra]  Works  »  -      16 

■f        SelteU™i>  illliuttated J      -  16 

"        LaUaRoOkh       -        -        -  16 

Irian  Mrlodita  ...  16 

National  Melodies    •       -  16 

"  Sr.,-i...|  S«m.  t frith  JMWf)     16 

"        ^nnt:»  «od  Belledo  -        -    16 
1W3b'»  PiwtiiMj  Work?  <-        -     18 

Stltkftpcair,  hj  Bnrrulrt  -  -19 

ll)f|s||  1  foK^ical  Works       -       -    21 
Tbomaoa'a  Sr  a  n.ini ,  illustrated      -    23 

Political   Economy  and 
Statistics. 

Lalag's  Notes  of  a  TraTeUtr  -       .22 
Macleod'a  Political  Economy       -    14 
M'Culioch'sGeog.Statist.fte.Dlct.    14 
"         Dictionary  of  Commerce  1 4 
"  London      ...    23 

Willich's  Popular  Tables      -       -    24 

The  Sciences   in   general 
and  Mathematics. 

Arago's  Meteorological  Essays     -      3 
"       Popular  Astronoma-       -     3 

4 
4 

4 

4 


e  *erew  Propeller 
"     'a  V.  -i  terMrtn  of  Steam  •  F  *  pine 
TWi"*  Nii*a.|  Ca>le*+i  Minna] 
Brandt*  1m  M*>n*t j  nt  s^urt^r ,*c. 

*  LertnrM  o»  Organic  rbfatkttr}  . 

Crciy'*  Ctrfl  Engineering       -  6 
DelaRtrh*-»C«aWi  ofCorawmll.dre,  7 

Mt  U  Itrtw*.  Electneity           -  7 

U  ttm '» 1  "rf  reJ  a,  of  ft  r  pica!  Form  8 

H^racLr  l"»  Uglllnra  of  litronomt  9 

HolLiirt'H  MftiM  Phyiiolngj        -  9 

ilVJnbijJiif*  A*pKlj  ofKafurr  10 

"           Cosmos                      -  10 

Hunt  on  Light       -        -        -        -  10 

Ljrdn  er  *  Cabinet  CyclcpJtd  1 1  13 

Mnri^t'n    Mr«.  i  C  cairrtatiPPf       -  14 

M Off  1) 'n  r  1*1711*11 1>  Of  FajChtiUlgv    -  16 
M  OSJ  1  p  T  •  E  li  tt\  i>*r  ri  n  c*  A  w  M  Uc*  ur  e  16 

t-gilr|cri  V«t4!T -UniLdef'i  Pisa     -  17 

Onr  Coal  fie-k'a  and  ooj  Coal -Pita  23 

Uvea's  L*?Tur*ionCgmp.  Analtrm;  17 

IWnr*  i-r  f*r.lHTi*.H  Lwht    -        -  17 

I'ssthrl'*  Elemental  or  Pbjtic*       »  17 

riiillipe'r  PvapUa  r>f  l.ornn-U,  Ac-  17 

«        Mlfietalogr      .                 .  17 

■        Cmio*  to  Geology    -        -  17 

ForUoca'MJecdoCT  of  Londonderry  18 

IVaelTi  I'mtj  &f  Worlds       .        .  18 

Sniff'*  F'liftro-Metallargy     *        -  20 

Sltatti  Fne(tjr:Th*)      -        -  4 

Wilayfl'i  ftectiic  TeJegraph  -        -  29 


Rural  Sports. 

0aker»  Ride  and  Havn4  Mi 
Bl^iur  «  Diettonaxe  of  Sfk«w_ 
CtcU'i  Sufel*  Practice    - 

"      5tnd  Farna  - 
Da.v^aFJdiLm'  txcar»^nit»,2 
EriheEbtnt  nn  Ahglinc     - 

HinLfiE  Youb*  Si 
The  Hunting- PJ*-M 
liHlr'o  HLnta  en  Sl^ooUng 
PorLet  an  £t  Ihr  Btmd 
Prrictlcal  Hcf**-itv*ji*ijjp 
Pirrort*  Crica**  Fwrld    - 
llarrje  lIorKi  Taming:  - 
■     RmbaMaona  n  ru*—^  ei  J  F 
Ua&a4ds'  lli-riahcT  *  Eii^A 
Katie  T*llt  aoJ  Table  TiA 
fluTiti.rnqi!  oa  LLf   Dcg  • 

'L  on  *h«  Grej  Lx^aa 

Tl.ata-i-r'a  Conrter1*  CuJ* 
The  SiuJ,  fo  r  p  cacti  nil  ~ 


Veterinary  M 

Oscil's  Stable  Practica 

M      filud  Finn 
Hi        an  FirHcTta*)      - 

Mika'i  riprK-AiMJiw  - 

"     on  tfir  Hon**' a  fowt      • 
Pc«:irland  th*  «tnd 
Pr-r.tJi-aJ  HcwmamJTip 

IUfn|"4   H  u  r*r  .  1' a  Diir-ff    - 

Ri  ->:*n  'a  H  i7n>4-m^caetian- 

SthtiJc  Tali  and  Tablr  T«l»   • 
8*  uzt  on  the.  0^.  _ 

Stud  (The |  -       ■*■ 

Yc     ti'i  TW  r>ov  - 

"      Tteiim       .      . 


▼oyaa-osand 

Auldjo's  aeoentof  Mont  Blame 
Bainee's  Taudeas  rfriiiilin-| 
Baker's  Wanderieua.  in  GerloB 


Earth's  African  Tnrrehs 
Burton's  East  Africa, 
'*       Medina  and 
Davies's  Algiers     - 
De  Custlne^s  Ruaain 


PfTiT»orfe  6WtM  Tr«>*» 
FCiTflrf*  AtmhW  in  Wwt 

Oirontere-'a  *"  ' 


r 


H . .  r-  >  Prittany  and  Ha*  f£ma 


11     Chaao  na  n.nmij 
Hawitt'i  Art'Stadeat.  *-  ** — *— 

"  -    i*-lZ-«*iia  -  * 

win     - 
*-*-  -T  *  Tfcaaet 


Hoc  and  4/ ibet'i  Tarta. 


Hughes  *s  Auefaralian  "eh  mi— 
Hnmb<adt%  AapecU  of  Matmw     . 
Hurlhufs  Pirtmaa  srmm  CuhV     - 
Hutchiuaon*  afranan  --r'--   Hi, 

.  «.  W?rt»«  Afrtem 
Jsmmon's  Canada  -       -        _       . 
Jerrmsnnl  St,  Petarahearg    . 
Lasng*s  Norway     -       -        - 
««        Note*  rrf  a  Tt-lv-^h-t 
>  M'Clnre'a  North- •*•*  J^^^^      . 
MarDoncall  -.Vpw  trfU-r£!*-Bnl 
lC»»OD  »  /.Ula,  oi  Si La\  T 

MiJ<^'a  H^TrjMrajn  Iceland     - 
Oe       i   -  Uu-Jah    - 
Pfdffrr  i  Vorage  nrond  th«  Wa^Jg 
fiehener'a  Onlral  AnttKi  _         . 
8eaward'a  N-.fr»iJTc 
Snuw'i  Tierra  del  Fuafjo        * 
Von  Trmnea^a  M«x«w         ^       « 
Wanderings  la  Laod  mC  Ham 
Weld  a  \  j'  aliona  Id  trvlano  - 
"        I  ii  iled  «ULpa  amf  Cp-n 
Wernr  a  African  Waej^eiinffe 
WUt  vrfotnt.  Sraait  ft  iila^" 


Works  of  Fictton. 

Cruiaabaak's  Fahvtaff  - 
Heir*  of  Chervhlgh  -  ■ 
Hewitt's  TaDanncUa  - 
Moore's  Epicnraan 
Six  Roger  DeCoverley  - 
Sketches  (The).  Three  Tales  -  m 
"  "  "  ~  a  Doctor  A*.  -  -  a 
irchsater  Towers  -  33 
Wardan         ...» 


-  li 

-  li 

•   * 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ALPHABETICAL  CATALOGUE 

of 

NEW    WORKS    and    NEW    EDITIONS 

PUBLISHED  BY 

Teasrs.  LOKGMAN,  BEOWN,  GEEEN,  LONGMANS,  and  EOBEETS, 

PATERNOSTER  ROW,  LONDON. 


iss  Acton's  Modern  Cookery  for  Private 

Families,  reduced  to  a  System  of  Easy  Prac- 
tice in  a  Series  of  carefully-tested  Receipts, 
in  which  the  Principles  of  Baron  Liebig  and 
other  eminent  Writers  have  been  as  much  as 
possible  applied  and  explained.  Newly-re- 
vised and  enlarged  Edition ;  with  8  Plates, 
comprising  27  Figures,  and  160  Woodcuts. 
ITcp.  8vo.  7s.  6d. 

g-  In  this  Cookery  Book  the  quantity  of 
every  article  necessary  for  the  preparation 
of  each  receipt,  and  the  time  requirt  d  for 
its  preparation,  are  minutely  stated. 

cton's  English  Bread-Book  for  Domestic  Use, 
adapted  to  Families  of  every  grade.  Fcp. 
8vo.  price  4s.  6d.  cloth. 

ikin.— Select  Works  of  the  British 

Poets,  from  Ben  Jonson  to  Beattie.  With 
Biographical  and  Critical  Prefaces  by  Dr. 
Aixnr.  New  Edition,  with  Supplement  by 
XiUOY  AnuN ;  consisting  of  additional  Selec- 
tions from  more  recent  roots.    8vo.  18s. 

Lrago(F.)— BiographiesofDistinguished 

Scientific  Men.  Translated  by  Admiral 
W.  !H.  Smyth,  D.C.L.,  F.R.S.,  Ac.  j  the  Key. 
BajdbnPowbxLjM.A.;  andBoBXBT  Grant, 
M.A.,  F.R.A.S.    8to.  18s. 

xago's  Meteorological  Essays.  With  an 
Introduction  by  Baron  Humboldt.  Trans- 
lated under  the  superintendence  of  Mojor- 
Genersl  E.  Sabihe,  RjL,  Treasurer  and 
V.P.R.S.    8to.18s. 

ixago's  Pepular  Astronomy.  Translated  and 
edited  by  Admiral  W.  H.  Smyth,  D.C.L., 
F.R.S. ;  and  Robert  Grant,  M;A.,F.R.A.S. 
In  Two  Volumes.  Vol,  I.  8yo.  with  Plates 
and  Woodcuts,  21s. 

Arnold —Poems.    By  Matthew  Arnold. 

First  Semes,  Third  Edition.  Fcp.  8vo. 
price  5s.  6d.    Second  Series,  price  6s. 

Lmold.— Merepe,  a  Tragedy.  By  Matthew 
Arnold.  With  a  Preface  and  an  Historical 
Introduction.    Fcp.  8yo.  5s. 


Lord  Bacon's  Works.   A  New  Edition, 

revised  and  elucidated;  and  enlarged  by  the 
addition  of  msny  pieces  not  printed  before. 
Collected  and  edited  by  Robert  Leslie 
Ellis,  MjL,  Fellow  of  Trinity  College, 
Cambridge;  James  Speddins,  M.A.  of 
Trinity  College,  Cambridge ;  and  Douglas* 
Dekow  Heath,  Esq.,  Barrister-at-Law,  and 
late  Fellow  of  Trinity  College,  Cambridge.— 
Vols.  I.  to  III.  8vo.  18s.  each ;  Vol.  IV. 
14s. ;  and  Vol.  V.  18s.,  comprising  the 
Division  of  Philosophical  Works ;  with  a  co- 
pious Index. 

%*  Vols.  VI.  and  VII.,  comprising 
Bacon's  Literary  and  Professional  Works%  are 
just  ready. 

Joanna  BaiUie's  Dramatic  and  Poetical 

Works :  Comprising  the  Plays  of  the  Pas- 
sions, Miscellaneous  Dramas,  Metrical  Le- 
gends, Fugitive  Pieces,  and  Ahalya  Baee; 
with  the  Life  of  Joanna  Baillie,  Portrait, 
and  Vignette.  Square  crown  8vo.  21s. 
cloth  j  or  42s.  bound  in  morocco  by  Hayday. 

Baker.  —  The  Rifle  and  the  Hound  in 
Ceylon.  By  S.  W.  Baker,  Esq.  New 
Edition,  with  IS  Illustrations  engraved  on 
Wood.    Fcp.  8vo.  4s.  6d. 

Baker.  —Eight  Tears'  Wanderings  in  Ceylon. 
By  S.  W.  Baker,  Esq.  With  6  coloured 
Plates.    8vo.  price  15s. 

Barth.  —  Travels  and   Discoveries   in 

North  and  Central  Africa  :  Being  the  Jour- 
nal of  an  Expedition  undertaken  under 
the  auspices  of  Her  Britannic  Majesty's  Go- 
vernment in  the  Years  1849 — 1855.  By 
Henry  Barth,  Ph.D.,  D.C.L.,  Fellow  of  the 
Royal  Geographical  and  Asiatic  Societies, 
&c.  With  numerous  Maps,  Wood  Engrav- 
ings, and  Illustrations  in  tinted  Lithography. 
5  vols.  8vo.  £5.  5s.  cloth. 

'*  Few  books  of  travel 

have  we  closed  with  to  keen 
an  Interest  or  so  complete  a 
confidence  in  the  narrator  as 
these  of  Dr.  Barth.  Short  of 
actual  personal  surrey,  they 

*b  B  2 


leave  the  reader  nothing- 
to  desire.  Tho  author' ■quali- 
fications place  him  in  the 
first  rank  of  scientific  ex- 
plorers."       ATHIIf.EOC. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


NEW  WORKS  akd  NEW  EDITIONS 


Bayldon's  Art  of  Valuing  Rents  and 

Tillages,  and  Claims  of  Tenants  upon 
Quitting  Farms,  at  both  Michaelmas  and 
Lady-Day ;  as  revised  by  Mr.  Donaldson. 
Seventh  Edition,  enlarged  and  adapted  to  the 
Present  Time:  With  the  Principles  and 
Mode  of  Valuing  Land  and  other  Property 
for  Parochial  Assessment  and  Enfranchise- 
ment of  Copyholds,  under  the  recent  Acts  of 
Parliament.  By  Robert  Baker,  Land- 
Agent  and  Valuer.    8vo.  10s.  6d. 

Black's  Practical  Treatise  on  Brewing, 

based  on  Chemical  and  Economical  Princi- 
ples :  With  Formula)  for  Public  Brewers,  and 
Instructions  for  Private  Families.  New 
Edition,  with  Additions.    8to.  10s.  6d. 

Blaine's  Encyclopaedia  of  Rural  Sports; 

or,  a  complete  Account,  Historical,  Prac- 
tical, and  Descriptive,  of  Hunting,  Shooting, 
Fishing,  Racing,  &c.  New  Edition,  revised 
and  corrected ;  with  above  600  Woodcut 
Illustrations  from  Drawings  by  J.  Leech, 
Aiken,  T.  and  G.  Landseer,  R.  B.  Davis, 
and  other  Artists.  In  1  vol.  8vo.  price  42s. 
half-bound. 

Blair's    Chronological   and  Historical 

Tables,  from  the  Creation  to  the  Present 
Time :  With  Additions  and  Corrections  from 
the  most  authentic  Writers ;  including  the 
Computation  of  St.  Paul,  as  connecting  the 
Period  from  the  Exode  to  the  Temple. 
Under  the  revision  of  Sib  Henby  Ellis, 
K.H.    Imperial  8vo.  31s.  6d."  half-morocco. 

Bloomfleld.  —  The    Greek    Testament, 

with  copious  English  Notes,  Critical,  Phi- 
lological, and  Explanatory.  Especially 
adapted  to  the  use  of  Theological  Students 
and  Ministers.  By  the  Rev.  S.  T.  Blooic- 
pield,  D.D.,  F.S.A.  Ninth  Edition,  revised. 
2  vols.  8vo.  with  Map,  price  £2.  8s. 

Dr.  Bloomfield's  College  and  School  Edition  of 
the  Greek  Testament :  With  brief  English 
Notes,  chiefly  Philological  and  Explanatory. 
Seventh  Edition;  with  Map  and  Index. 
Fcp.  8vo.  7s.  6d. 

Dr.  Bloomfleld's  College  and  School  Lexicon 
to  the  Greek  Testament.  New  Edition, 
carefully  revised.    Fcp.  8vo.  price  10s.  6d. 

Bourne's  Catechism  of  the  Steam-Engine 

in  its  various  Applications  to  Mines,  Mills, 
Steam-Navigation,  Railways,  and  Agricul- 
ture: With  Practical  Instructions  for  the 
Manufacture  and  Management  of  Engines 
of  every  'class.  Fourth  Edition,  enlarged  j 
with  89  Woodcuts.    Fop.  8vo.  6s. 


Bourne.  — A  Treatise  on  the   Steu 

Engine,  in  its  Application  to  M""»v^  M3 
Steam-Navigation,  and  Railway*.  By  a 
Artisan  Club.  Edited  by  Johx  Boxran,  CS 
New  Edition ;  with  83  Steel  Plate*  and  U 
Wood  Engravings.    4to.  price  27s. 


Bourne.— A  Treatise  on  the  Screw 

With  various  Suggestions  of  Improves*?! 
By  Johk  Bourns,  C.E.  New  Edition,  & 
roughly  revised  and  corrected.  Witi  3 
large  Plates  and  numerous  Woodcuts.  4k 
price  38s. 

Boyd.  — A  Manual  for  Naval   Cadet 

Published  with  the  sanction  and  appror 
of  the  Lords  Commissioners  of  the  A*Vj 
ralty.  By  John  M'Nitll  Botx>,  Gaptas 
R.N.  With  Compass-Signals  in  Color 
and  236  Woodcuts.    Fcp.  8vo.  10*.  6d. 

Brande.— A  Dictionary  of  Science,  Lit* 

rature,  and  Art :  Comprising  the  Histor 
Description,  and  Scientific  Principles  < 
every  Branch  of  Human  Knowledge ;  wi£ 
the  Derivation  and  Definition  of  all  li 
Terms  in  general  use.  Edited  by  W.  I 
B&axdx,  F.R.8.L.  and  E.;  aaaiated  by  Pi 
J.  Cautin.  Third  Edition',  revised  and  or 
rected ;  with  numerous  Woodcut*.   8vo.  60s 

Professor  Brando's  Lectures  on  Organ* 

Chemistry,  as  applied  to  Manufacture 
including  Dyeing,  Bleaching,  Oalico-Prntf 
ing,  Sugar-Manufacture,  the  Preeervatke 
of  Wood,  Tanning,  Ac. ;  delivered  before  tat 
Members  of  the  Royal  Institution.  Edit*, 
by  J.  Scoffebk,  M.B.  Fcp.  8vo.  wid 
Woodcuts,  price  7s.  6cL 

Brewer. — An  Atlas  of  History  and  Get 

graphy,  from  the  Commencement  of  tai 
Christian  Era  to  the  Present  Time :  Coo- 
prising  a  Series  of  Sixteen  coloured  Hsf4 
arranged  in  Chronological  Order,  with  IQet 
trative  Memoirs.  By  the  Rev.  J.  S.  Buwff, 
M.A.,  Professor  of  English  History  ad 
literature  in  King's  College,  Londsa 
Second  Edition,  revised  and  corrected 
Royal  8vo.  12s.  6d.  half-bound. 

Brialmont— The  Life  of  the  Duke  d 

Wellington.  From  the  French  of  Arxm 
Bkiaxmont,  Captain  on  the  Staff  of  tai 
Belgian  Armv :  With  Emendation's  s*l 
Additions.  By  the  Rev.  G.  R.  Glkio,  M.JL 
Chaplain-General  to  the  Forces  and  P(tj 
bendary  of  St.  Paul's.  With  Maps,  PW 
of  Battles,  and  Portraits.  Vols.  I.  and  It 
8vo.  80s. 

Brodie.  — Psychological  Inquiries,  in  I 

Series  of  Essays  intended  to  illustrate  tin 
Influence  of  the  Physical  Organisation  ei 
the  Mental  Faculties.  By  Sir  BssjAXDr  G 
BaoDH,Bart.  Third  Edition.  Fcp.8vo.6ai 


Digitized  by 


Google 


PTTBLIBHID  BT  LONGMAN,  BROWN,  ASD  CO. 


ill. —  The  Maternal  Management  of 

Children  in  Health  and  Disease.  By 
T.  Bull,  MJ).,  Member  of  the  Royal 
College  of  Physicians ;  formerly  Physician- 
Accoucheur  to  the  Finsbury  Midwifery 
Institution.    New  Edition.    Fcp.  8yo.  6s. 

.  T.  Bull's  Hints  to  Mothers  on  the  Manage- 
ment of  their  Health  during  the  Period  of 
^Pregnancy  and  in  the  Lying-in  Room :  With 
an  Exposure  of  Popular  Errors  in  connexion 
-with  those  subjects,  &c.j  and  Hints  upon 
Nursing.    New  Edition.    Fcp.  8to.  6s. 

onsen.  —  Christianity  and  Mankind, 

their    Beginnings     and     Prospects.      By 

"Baron  O.  O.J.  Buvsnr,  D.D.,  D.C.L.,  D.Ph. 

Being  a  New  Edition,  corrected,  remodelled, 

and  extended,  of  Hijtpolytus  and  hi*  Age. 

7  vol*.  8to.  £6.  6s. 

*-•  This  Edition  la  composed  of  threo  distinct  works, 
which  may  be  had  aeparately,  ai  follows  :— 

1.  Hippolytna  and  hia  Ace;  or,  the  Beghratagi  and 
Prospects  of  Christianity.    2  vols.  8vo.  price  £1. 10s. 

2.  Outline  of  the  Philosophy  of  Universal  History  »p- 
plied  to  Language  and  Religion :  Containing  an  Ac- 
count of  the  Alphabetical  Conferences.  2  vols.  8vo. 
price  £1.  ISs. 

S.  Analects  Ante-NIcama.  S  toIs.  8to  .  price  £2. 2s. 

lunsen. — Lyra  Germanica.   Translated 

from  the  German  by  Cathbbine  Wink- 
wobth.  Fifth  Edition  of  the  Fibst  Sebibs, 
Hymns  for  the  Sundays  and  chief  Festivals 
of  the  Christian  Year.  Second  Sbbibs,  the 
Christian  Life.  Fcp.  8vo.  price  5s.  eaoh 
Series. 

***  These  selections  of  German  Hymns  liarc  been  made 
•om  collections  published  in  Germany  by  Baron  Buxsxw ; 
nd  form  companion  volumes  to 

Iheologi*  Germanica:  Which  setteth  forth 
many  fair  lineaments  of  Divine  Truth,  and 
saith  very  lofty  and  lovely  things  touching 
a  Perfoct  Lite.  Translated  by  Susakba 
Wikxwoeth.  With  a  Preface  hy  the  Rev. 
Chables  Kingblev  ;  and  a  Letter  by  Baron 
Btxnseh.   Third  Edition.    Fcp.8yo.5s. 

Bunsen.  —  Egypt's  Place  in  Universal 

History:  An  Historical  Investigation,  in 
Five  Books.  By  Baron  C.  C.  J.  Bubsbn, 
D.D.,  D.C.L.,  D.Ph.  Translated  from  the 
German  by  C .  H.  Cottbell,  Esq.,  M.A. 
With  many  Illustrations.  Vol.  I.  8vo.  28s.  j 
Vol,  II.  8vo.  80s. 

Bishop  Bailer's  General  Atlas  of  Modern 

and  Ancient  Geography ;  comprising  Fifty- 
two  full-coloured  Maps ;  with  complete  In- 
dices. New  Edition,  nearly  all  re-engraved, 
enlarged,  and  greatly  improved.  Edited  by 
the  Author's  Son.  Boyal  4to.  24s.  half-bound. 

!The  Modern  Atlas  of  28  fall-coloured  Maps. 
The  Ancient  Afiaof  24  full-coloured Maps. 
Itoyal  8vo.  price  12a. 


Bishop  Butler's  Sketch  of  Modern  and 

Ancient  Geography.  New  Edition,  tho- 
roughly revised,  with  such  Alterations  intro- 
duced as  continually  progressive  Discoveries 
and  the  latest  Information  have  rendered 
necessary.    Post  8vo.  price  7s.  6d. 

Barton.— First  Footsteps  in  East  Africa ; 

or,  an  Exploration  of  Harar.  By  Richabu 
F.  Bubton,  Captain,  Bombay  Army.  With 
Haps  and  coloured  Plates.    8vo.  18s. 

Bnrton.  — Personal  Narrative  of  a  Pil- 

S  image  to  El  Medinah  and  Meccah.  By 
iohabb  F.  Bitbton,  Captain,  Bombay 
Army.  Second  Edition,  revised ;  with  coloui  ed 
Plates  and  Woodcuts.  2  vols,  crown  8vo. 
price  24s. 

The  Cabinet  Lawyer:  A  Popular  Digest 

of  the  Laws  of  England,  Civil  and  Criminal ; 
with  a  Dictionary  of  Law  Terms,  Maxims, 
Statutes,  and  Judicial  Antiquities ;  Correct 
Tables  of  Assessed  Taxes,  Stamp  Duties, 
Excise  Licenses,  and  Post-Horse  Duties; 
Post-Office  Regulations  ;  and  Prison  Disci- 
pline. 17th  Edition,  comprising  the  Public 
Acts  of  thoSession  1858.    Fcp.  8vo.  10s.  6d. 

The  Cabinet  Gazetteer:  A  Popular  Geogra- 
phical Dictionary  of  All  the  Countries  of 
the  World.  By  the  Author  of  The  Cabinet 
Lawyer*     Fcp.  8vo.  10s.  6d.  cloth. 

Calendars  of  State  Papers,   Domestic 

Series,  published  under  the  Direction  of  the 
Master  of  the  Bolls,  and  with  the  Sanction 
of  H.M.  Secretary  of  State  for  the  Home 
Department  :— 

The  Reign  of  JAMES  I.  1603-23,  edited  by 
Mrs.  Green.  You .  I.  to  III.  imperial  8vo. 
15s.  each. 

The  Reign  of  CHARLES  I.  1625-26,  edited 
by  John  Bbtjoe,  V.P.S.A.  Imperial  8vo.  15s. 

The  Reigns  of  EDWARD  VI.,  MARY, 
ELIZABETH,  1547-80,  edited  by  R.  Lemon, 
Esq.     Imperial  8yo.  15b.  • 

Historical  Notes  relative  to  the  History 
of  England,  from  the  Accession  of  HENRY 
VIII.  to  the  Death  of  ANNE  (1509-1714), 
compiled  by  F.  S.  Thomas,  Esq.  3  vols. 
imperial  8vo.  40s. 

State  Papers  relating  to  Scotland,  from  the 
Reign  of  HENRY  VIII.  to  the  Accession  of 
JAMES  I.  (1509-1603),  and  of  the  Corre- 
spondence relating  to  MARY  QUEEN  of 
SCOTS,  during  her  Captivity  in  England, 
edited  by  M.  J.  Thobpe,  Esq.  2  vols.  imp. 
8vo.  30s. 


b3 


Digitized  by 


Google 


NEW  WOBKS  Am  NEW  EDITIONS 


Calvert  —  The   Wife's    Manual ;   or, 

Prayers,  Thoughts,  and  Songs  on  Several 
Occasions  of  a  Matron's  Life.  By  the  Bey. 
W.  Calvert,  M.A.  Ornamented  from  De- 
signs by  the  Author  in  the  style  of  Queen 
Elizabeth'*  Prayer-Book.  Second  Edition. 
Crown  8to.  10s.  6d. 

Catlow.— Popular  Conchology;  or,  the 

Shell  Cabinet  arranged  according  to  the 
Modern  System :  With  a  detailed  Account 
of  the  Animals,  and  a  complete  Descriptive 
List  of  the  Families  and  Genera  of  Becent 
and  Fossil  Shells.  By  Agues  Catlow. 
Second  Edition,  much  improved  j  with  405 
Woodcut  Illustrations.  Post  8vo.  price  14s. 

Cecil.  — The  Stud  Farm;  or,  Hints  on 

Breeding  Horses  for  the  Turf,  the  Chase,  and 
the  Boad.  Addressed  to  Breeders  of  Race- 
Horses  and  Hunters,  Landed  Proprietors, 
and  especially  to  Tenant  Farmers.  By 
Cecil.    Fcp.  8vo.  with  Frontispiece,  5s. 

Cecil's  Stable  Practice;  or,  Bints  on  Training 
for  the  Turf,  the  Chase,  and  the  Boad; 
with  Observations  on  Racing  and  Hunt- 
ing, Wasting,  Bacc-Biding,  and  Handi- 
capping :  Addressed  to  Owners  of  Racers, 
Hunters,  and  other  Horses,  and  to  all  who 
are  concerned  in  Bacing,  Steeple- Chasing, 
and  Fox-Hunting.  Fcp.  8vo.  with  Plate, 
price  5s.  half-bound. 

Chapman.  — History  of  Gustavns  Adol- 

phus  and  of  the  Thirty  Years'  War  up  to  the 
Song's  Death :  With  some  Account  of  its 
Conclusion  by  the  Peace  of  Westphalia,  in 
1648.  By  B.  Chapman,  M.A.,  Vicar  of 
Letherhead.    8vo.  with  Plans,  12s.  6d. 

Che vrenl  On  the  Harmony  and  Contrast 

of  Colours,  and  their  Applications  to  the 
Arts :  Including  Painting,  Interior  Decora- 
tion, Tapestries,  Carpets,  Mosaics,  Coloured 
Glazing,  Paper-Staining,  Calico-Printing, 
Letterpress-Printing,  Map-Colouring,Dres8, 
Landscape  and  Flower-Gardening,  &c.  &c. 
Translated  bv  Chableb  Mabtbl.  Second 
Edition^  with  4  Plates.  Crown  8vo. 
price  10s*.  6d. 


Conybeare  and  Howson.— The  Life  and 

Epistles  of  Saint  Paul :  Comprising  a  com- 
plete Biography  of  the  Apostle,  and  a 
Translation  of  his  Epistles  inserted  in 
Chronological  Order.  By  the  Bev.  W.  J. 
Coxybeabe,  M.A.j  and  the  Bev.  J.  S. 
Howson,  M.A.  Second  Edition,  revised  and 
corrected ;  with  several  Maps  and  Wood- 
cuts, and  4  Plates.  2  vols,  square  crown 
8vo.  31s.  6<L  cloth. 

%•  The  Original  Edition,  with  more  numerous  Iltastra- 
tlona,  in  2  vols.  4to.  price  48s.— may  alao  be  had. 


Chronicles  and  Memorials   of  Giw 

Britain  and  Ireland  during  the  Middle  A*- 
published  by  the  authority  of  H.M.  Ttt 
sury,  under  the  direction  of  the  Master 
the  Rolls... BoyalH 

Oapgrave's  Chronicle  of  England,  edited 
the  Bev.  P.  C.  Hhjgestoh,  M.A.  &.&. 

Chronicon  Monaster^  da  Abingdon,  eB: 
by  Bev.  J.  SwraraoN Vol.  L  8s.& 

Lives  of  Edward  the  Confessor,  edited  r 
the  Bev.  H.  B.  Lttahd,  M. A 8s.  6c 

Monumenta  Franciscana,  edited  by  the  IV 
J.  S.  Bebwbr,  M.A 8*.6c 

Fasciculi  Zizaniornm  Magiatri  Jonas* 
Wyclif  cum  Tritico.  Edited  by  the  Ber.T 
W.  Shibxsy,  MJL .*.... in.*: 

Stewart's  Buik  of  the  Gronielis  of  Scodc . 
edited  by  W.  B.  Tototbuu, Vot.  1. 8*.  $ 

J.  Capgrave  Liber  de  Illustrious  Heorki 
edited  by  Bev.  F.  O.  Hrjf&BSTOv,  M .A.  8*.  t 

English  Translation  of  Gapgrave's  Jtc*k  : 
the  Illustrious  Eenriet^  by  the  Bev.  F.  C 
HlNGESTON,  M.A 10s,  6i 

Historia  de  Monasterii  S.  Augnstini  Gnrca- 
rensis,  edited  by  Ber.C.  Habdwicke.  8l  fc 

Connolly— History  of  the  Royal  Sapper 

and  Miners :  Including  the  Services  of  t: 
Corps  in  the  Crimea  and  at  the  Siege 
Sebastopol.  By  T.  W.J.  Comoxly,  Qar 
termaster  of  the  Royal  Engineers,    Sett 
Edition  y  revised  and  enlarged  ;  with  17  k* 
loured  plates.    2  vols.  8vo.  price  30s. 

Dr.  Copland's  Dictionary  of  Practka. 

Medicine;  Comprising  General  Paibokf* 
the  Nature  and  Treatment  of  Disc*** 
Morbid  Structures,  and  the  Disorders  e> 
peoially  incidental  to  Climates,  to  Sex,  at 
to  the  different  Epochs  of  life;  withnsr*- 
rouB  approved  Formula?  of  the  Medici** 
recommended.  Now  complete  in  3  re 
8vo.  price  £5.  lis.  cloth. 

Bishop  Cotton's  Instructions   in  tfe 

Doctrine  and  Practice  of  Christianity.  3> 
tended  chiefly  as  an  Introduction  to'Oosf^ 
xnation.    Fourth  Edition.    lSmo.  2s.  6d. 

Crests  Encyclopedia  of  Civil  Engi- 
neering, Historical,  Theoretical,  and  Ptjl- 
tical.  Dluetrated  by  upwards  of  *>£ 
Woodcuts.     Second   Edition,    revised   il- 

brought  down  to  the  Present  Time  b  : 
Suppkment^comprisingMetropoliUn  Wsu* 
Supply,  Drainage  of  Towns,  Rail**- 
Cubical  Proportion,  Brick  and  Iron  t- 
struction,  Iron  Screw  Piles,  Tubular  Bri  v-> 
Ac.    Svo.  63s.  cloth. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


FVBLXrantD  by  LONGMAN,  BROWN,  urn    CO. 


isse.  — Memorials,  Scientific  and  Li- 
brary, of  Andrew  Crosse,  the  Electrician. 
Idited  by  Mrs.  Cnossx.    Post  8vo.  9s.  6d. 

>we.  — The  History  of  France.    By 

:t»b  Evahs  Cbowk.  In  Five  Volumes. 
roi*.  I.  8to.  price  14s. 

likahank-  — The  Life  of  Sir  John 

ialstaff,  illustrated  in  a  Series  of  Twenty- 
our  original  Etchings  by  George  Oraii- 
hank.  Accompanied  by  an  imaginary 
iiography  of  the  Knight  by  Robbbt  B. 
Sbofgh.    Royal  8vo.  price  12s.  6d.  cloth. 

dy  Cast's  Invalid's  Book.— The  In- 

alid's  Own  Book :  A  Collection  of  Recipes 
rom  various  Books  and  various  Countries. 
Jy  the  Honourable  Lady  Oust.  Second 
Edition,    Fcp.  8vo.  price  2s.  6cL 

le.— The  Domestic  Liturgy  and  Family 

Chaplain,  in  Two  Parts :  Past  I.  Church 
Services  adapted  for  Domestic  Use,  with 
Prayers  for  Every  Day  of  the  Week,  selected 
rom  the  Book  of  Common  Prayer;  Part 
I.  an  appropriate  Sermon  for  Every  Sunday 
n  the  Year.  By  the  Bev.  Thomas  Dale, 
liLA.,  Canon  Residentiary  of  St.  Paul's, 
tecond  Edition.  Post  4to.  21s.  cloth] 
Us.  6d.  calf  j  or  £2. 10s.  morocco. 

_  A  ,       /TEH  FAMILY  CffAPULOT,  Hi. 

Separately  {  Tja  JjmDmto  LmnuiT,  10b.  fid. 

ivies.— Algiers  in  1857:  Its  Accessi- 
bility, Climate,  and  Resources  described 
vith  especial  reference  to  English  Invalids ; 
svith  details  of  Recreation  obtainable  in  its 
Neighbourhood  added  for  the  use  of  Tra- 
rellcrs  in  general.  By  the  Rev.  E.  W.  L. 
Davus,  M.A.,  Oxon.  Post  8vo.  with  4 
Illustrations,  6s.  • 

vy  (Dr.  J.)  — The  Angler  and  his 

Friend ;  or,  Piscatory  Colloquies  and  Fish- 
ng  Excursions.  By  John  Davy,  M.D., 
?.R.S.,  &c.    Fcp.  8vov  price  6s. 

e  Angler  in  the  Lake  Distriot:  or,  Piscatory 

Colloquies  and  Fishing  Excursions  in  West- 
nordand  and  Cumberland.  By  JoHK 
Davy,  M.D.,  F.R.S.    Fcp.  8vo.  6s.  6d. 

labeche.— Report  on  the  Geology  of 

Cornwall,  Devon,  and  West  Somerset.  By 
3ir  H.  T.  Dblabxohs,  F.R.S.  With  Maps, 
Plates,  and  Woodcuts.     8vo.  price  14s. 

)  la  Rive.— A  Treatise  on  Electricity 

n  Theory  and  Practice.    ByA»DxiABiVB, 

Professor  in  the  Academy  of  Geneva.  Trans- 
lated for  the  Author  by  C.  V.  Waxxbb, 
F.R.S.  With  numerous  Woodcut  Illustra- 
tions.   3  vols*  8vo.  price  £3. 13s.  cloth. 


Abbe  Domenech's  Missionary  Adven- 
tures in  Texas  and  Mexico:  A  Personal 
Narrative  of  Six  Years'  Sojourn  in  those 
Regions.  Translated  from  the  French  under 
the  Author's  superintendence.  8vo.  with 
Map,  10s.  6d. 

The  Eclipse  of  Faith;  or,  a  Visit  to  a 

Religious  Sceptic.  9tAEdiiion.  Fcp.  8vo.  5s. 

Defence  of  The  Eclipse  of  Faith,  by  its 
Author:  Being  a  Rejoinder  to  Professor 
Newman's  Reply  ••  Including  a  full  Exami- 
nation of  that  Writer's  Criticism  on  the 
Character  of  Christ ;  and  a  Chapter  on  the 
Aspects  and  Pretensions  of  Modern  Deism. 
Second  Edition,  revised.     Post  8vo.  5s.  6d. 

The  Englishman's  Greek  Concordance  of 

the  New  Testament :  Being  an  Attempt  at  a 
Verbal  Connexion  between  the  Greek  and 
the  English  Texts ;  including  a  Concordance 
to  the  Proper  Names,  with  Indexes,  Greek- 
Emrlish  and  English-Greek.  New  Edition, 
with  a  new  Index.    Royal  8vo.  price  42s. 

The  Englishman's  Hebrew  and  Chaldee  Con- 
cordance of  the  Old  Testament :  Being  an 
Attempt  at  a  Verbal  Connexion  between 
the  Original  and  the  English  Translations  j 
with  Indexes,  a  List  of  the  Proper  Names 
and  their  Occurrences,  Ac.  2  vols,  royal 
8vo.  £3. 18s.  6d. ;  large  paper,  £4. 14s.  6d. 

Ephemera's    Handbook    of    Angling; 

teaching  Fly-Fishing,  Trolling,  Bottom- 
Fishing,  Salmon-Fishing  :  With  the  Natural 
History  of  River-Fish,  and  the  best  Modes 
of  Catching  them.  Third  Edition,  corrected 
and  improved;  with  Woodcuts.  Fcp.8vo.5s. 

Bphentexa/s  The  Book  of  the  Salmon:  Com. 
prising  the  Theory,  Principles,  and  Prac- 
tice of  Fly-Fishing  for  Salmon;  Lists  of 
good  Salmon  Flies  for  every  good  River  in 
the  Empire  \  the  Natural  History  of  the 
Salmon,  its  Habits  described,  and  the  best 
way  of  artificially  Breeding  it.  Fcp.  8vo. 
with  coloured  Plates,  price  14s. 

Fairbairn— Useful  Information  for  En- 
gineers :  Being  a  Series  of  Lectures  delivered 
to  the  Working  Engineers  of  Yorkshire  and 
Lancashire.  With  Appendices,  containing 
the  Results  of  Experimental  Inquiries  into 
the  Strength  of  Materials,  the  Causes  of 
Boiler  Explosions,  &c.  By  William 
Faikbaihn,  F.R  £.,  F.G.S.  Second  Edition  5 
with  numerous  Plates  and  Woodcuts.  Crown 
8vo.  price  10s.  6d. 

Fischer.— Francis  Bacon  of  Verulam: 

Realistic  Philosophy  and  its  Age.  By  Dr. 
K.  FiaoHxn.  Translated  by  John  Oxen- 
jobb.    Post  8vo.  9s.  6d. 


b  4 


Digitized  by 


Google 


NEW  WORKS  jot  NEW  EDITIONS 


Forester.— Rambles  in  the  Islands  of 

Corsica  and  Sardinia:  With  Notices  of 
their  History,  Antiquities,  and  present 
Condition.  By  Thomas  Fobbstbb,  Au- 
thor of  Norway  in  1848-1849.  With 
coloured  Map  j  and  numerous  Illustrations 
in  Colours  and  Tints  and  on  Wood,  from 
Drawings  made  during  the  Tour  by  Lieut.- 
Col.  M.  A.  Bitdxjlph,  RA.  Imperial 
8vo.  price  28s. 

Garratt.— Marvels  and  Mysteries  of  In- 
stinct 5  or,  Curiosities  of  Animal  Life.  By' 
George  G-abbatt.  Second  Edition,  revised 
and  improved ;  with  a  Frontispiece.  Fcp. 
8vo.  price  4a.  6d. 

Gilbait— A  Practical  Treatise  on  Bank- 
ing. By  James  William  Gilbabt,  F.R.S., 
General  Manager  of  the  London  and  West- 
minster Bank.  Sixth  Edition,  revised 
and  enlarged.    2  vols.  12mo.  Portrait,  16s. 

Gilbait  —  Logic  for   the    Million:  A 

Familiar  Exposition  of  the  Art  of  Reasoning. 
By  J.  W.  Gilbabt,  F.R.S.  5th  Edition ; 
with  Portrait  of  the  Author.    12mo.  8s.  6d. 

Gleig.— Essays,  Biographical,  Historical, 

and  Miscellaneous,  contributed  chiefly  to  the 
Edinburgh  and  Quarterly  Reviews.  By  the 
Rev.  G.  R,  Gleig,  M.A.,  Chaplain- Genoral 
to  the  Forces  and  Prebendary  of  St.  Paul's. 
2  vols.  8?o.  21s. 

The  Poetical  Works  of  Oliver  Goldsmith. 

Edited  by  BoltobCobhbt,  Esq.  Illustrated 
by  Wood  Engravings,  from  Designs  by 
Members  of  the  Etching  Club.  Square 
crown  8vo.  cloth,  21s. ;  morocco,  £1. 16s. 

Gosse.  — A    Naturalist's    Sojourn    in 

Jamaica.  By  P.  H.  Gosbb,  Esq.  With 
Plates.    Post  8vo.  price  14a. 

Greathed.— Letters  from  Delhi  daring 

the  Siege.  By  H.  H.  Gbbathsd,  Esq., 
Political  Agent.    Post  8vo. 

Green.— Lives  of  the  Princesses  of  Eng- 
land. By  Mrs.  Mabt  Anne  Bvbbett 
Gbben,  Editor  of  the  Letters  of  Royal  and 
Illustrious  Ladies,  With  numerous  Por- 
traits. Complete  in  6  vols,  post  8vo.  price 
10s.  6d.  each. — Any  Volume  may  be  had 
separately  to  complete  sets. 

Greyson.  — Selections  from  the  Corre- 
spondence of  R.  E.  it.  Gbbtbon,  Esq. 
Edited  by  the  Author  of  The  Eclipse  of 
Faith.    Second  Edition.    Crown  8vo.  7s.  6d. , 

Grove.  — The  Correlation  of  Physical 

Forces.  By  W.  R.  Gbovb,  Q.C.,  M.A., 
F.R.S.,  &c.     Third  Edition.    8vo.  price  7s. 


Gurney.— St  Louis  and  Henri  IV. :  Bee; 

a  Second  Series  of  Historical  Sketess 
B  v  the  Rev.  John  H.  Gubjtbt,  M.A.,  Isct j 
of  St.  Mary's,  Marylebone.    Fcp.  8vc.  & 

Evening  Recreations ;  or,  Sample*   from  fc 
Lecture-Room.    Edited  by  the  Rev.  J.E  j 
Gubnbt,  M.A.    Crown  8vo.  5s.  ] 

Gwilf  s  Encyclopedia  of  Architect** 

Historical,  Theoretical,  and  Practical  £»• 
JoflBPH  Gwtlt.  With  more  than  1,0k. 
Wood  Engravings,  from  Designs  by  J.  i 
Gwtlt.    Third  Edition.    8to.  42b. 

Hare  (Archdeacon).— The  Life  of  Luther 

in  Forty-eight  Historical  Engraving*.  B* 
GUBTAV  EONIG.  With  JSxplanaticns  fc* 
Archdeacon  Habb  and  SuaAHUA  Wise 
WOBTH.    Fcp.  4to.  price  28a. 

Harford.— Life  of  Michael  Angelo  Buob- 

arroti :  With  Translations  of  many  c^  k? 
Poems  and  Letters ;  also  Memoirs  of  Sarc- 
narola,  Raphael,  and  Yittoria  Colonna.  E; 
John  8.  Habfobd,  Eaq.,  D.C.L.,  FJii 
Second  Edition^  thoroughly  revised;  «*~ 
20  copperplate  Engravings.  2  vols.  8ro.  2*. 

mnstrationa,  Architectural  and  Pictorial,  a* 
the  Genius  of  Michael  Angelo  Baonantt. 
With  Descriptions  of  the  Plates,  by  uV 
Commendatore  Canxna  ;  C  R.  Cocnaru, 
Esq.,  R.A. ;  and  J.  8.  Habfobd,  Esj, 
D.C.L.,  F.R.S.    Folio,  73s.  6d.  half-bouci 

Harrison.— The  Light  of  the  Forge;  or. 

Counsels  drawn  from  the  Sick-Bed  of  E.  It 
By  the  Rev.  W.  Habbison,  MJL,  Domest: 
Chaplain  to  HJLH.  the  Duchess  of  Cam- 
bridge.   Fcp.  8vo.  price  5s. 

Harry Hieover— Stable" Talk  and  Table 

Talk  j  or,  Spectacles  for  Young  Sportaco. 
By  Habbt  Hibovbb.  New  Edition,  2  to*. 
8vo.  with  Portrait,  price  24a. 

Harry  ffieorer.— TheHunting-Reld,  By  Han? 

Hibovbb.  With  Two  Plates.  Fcp.  Sto. 
6s.  half-bound. 

Harry    Hieover.  —  Practical    HeraamaBakia  I 
By  Habbt  Hieovbb.  Second  Edition-,  wsfc 
2  Plates.    Fcp.  8vo.  5s.  half-bound. 

Harry  Hieover.— The  Pocket  and  the  Mad;  ex, 
Practical  Hints  on  the  Management  of  tar 
Stable.  By  Habbt  Hibovbb,  Secoai 
Edition;  with  Portrait  of  the  Author.  Tex 
8vo.  price  5s.  half-bound. 

Hairy  Hieovar.-Tha  Stud,  for  Practical  Pt> 
poses  and  Practical  Men :  Being  a  Quiet 
to  the  Choice  of  a  Horse  for  use  more  this 
for  show.  By  Habbt  Hibotbb,  Wat 
2  Plates.    Fcp.  8vo.  price  5a.  half-bound. 


Digitized  by* 


ioogle 


published  by  LONGMAN,  BROWN,  awd  CO. 


Eassall. -Adulterations  Detected;   or, 

Plain  Instructions  for  the  Discovery  of 
Frauds  in  Food  and  Medicine.  By  Arthur 
Hill  Hassall,  M.D.  Lond.,  Analyst  of  The 
Lancet  Sanitary  Commission ;  and  Author  of 
the  Reports  of  that  Commission  published 
under  the  title  of  Food  and  its  Adulterations 
(which  may  also  he  had,  in  8vo.  price  28s.) 
With  225  Illustrations,  engraved  on  Wood. 
Crown  8vo.  17s.  6d. 

Hassall.-- A  History  of  the  British  Fresh 

Water  Algse :  Including  Descriptions  of  the 
Desmide®  and  Diatomaceso.  With  upwards 
of  One  Hundred  Plates  of  Figures,  illus- 
trating the  various  Species.  By  Abthub 
Hill  Hassall,  M.D.,  Author  of  Micro- 
scopic Anatomy  of  the  Human  Body,  Ac.  2 
vols.  8vo.  with  103  Plates,  price  £1. 15s. 

Col.  Hawker's  Instructions  to  Young 

Sportsmen  in  all  that  relates  to  Guns  and 
Snooting.  10th  Edition,  revised  by  the 
Author's  Son,  Major  P.  W.  L.  Hawker  ; 
with  a  Portrait  of  the  Author,  and  nu- 
merous Plates  and  Woodcuts.    8vo.  21s. 

Haydn's  Book  of  Dignities :  Containing 

Rolls  of  the  Official  Personages  of  the  British 
Empire,  Civil,  Ecclesiastical,  Judicial,  Mili- 
tary, Naval,  and  Municipal,  from  the  Earliest 
Periods  to  the  Present  Time.  Together 
with  the  Sovereigns  of  Europe,  from  the 
Foundation  of  their  respective  States  j  the 
Peerage  and  Nobility  of  Great  Britain ;  Ac. 
Being  a  New  Edition,  improved  and  conti- 
nued, of  Beatson's  Political  Index.  8vo. 
price  25s.  half-bound. 

Hayward.  —  Biographical  and  Critical 

Essays,  reprinted  from  Reviews,  with  Ad- 
ditions and  Corrections.  By  A.  Haywabd, 
Esq.,  Q.C.     2  vols.  8vo.  price  24s. 

The  Heirs  of  Cheveleigh:  A  Novel.  By 
Gervaisb  Abbott.  3  vols,  post  8vo. 
price  31s.  6d. 

Sir  John  Herschel.— Outlines  of  Astro- 
nomy. By  Sib  Johw  F.  W.  Hebschbl, 
Bart.,  K.H.,  M.A.  Fifth  Edition,  revised 
and  corrected  to  the  existing  state  of  Astro- 
nomical Knowledge ;  with  Plates  and  Wood- 
cuts.  8vo.  price  18s. 

Sir  John  Hersohel's  Essays  from  the  Edin- 
burgh  and  Quarterly  Reviews,  with  Ad- 
dresses and  other  Pieces.    8vo.  price  18s. 

Hinchliff— Summer  Months  among  the 

Alps :  With  the  Ascent  of  Monte  Rosa. 
By  Thomas  W.  Hinchliff,  of  Lincoln's 
Inn,  Barrister-at-Law.  With  4  tinted 
Views  and  3  Maps.    Post  8vo.  price  10s.  6d. 


Hints  on  Etiquette  and  the  Usages  of 

Society:  With  a  Glance  at  Bad  Habits. 
New  Edition,  revised  (with  Additions)  by  a 
Lady  of  Rank.  Fcp.8vo.  price  Half-a-Crown. 

Holland.  — Medical  Notes  and  Reflec- 
tions. By  Sib  Henry  Holland,  Bart., 
M:D.,  F.R.S.,  &c.,  Physician  in  Ordinary 
to  the  Queen  and  Prince-Consort.  Third 
Edition,  revised  throughout  and  corrected  ; 
with  some  Additions.    8vo.  18s. 

Holland.— Chapters  on  Mental  Physiology.  By 
Sib  Hbnbt  Holland,  Bart.,  F.R.S.,  &c. 
Pounded  chiefly  on  Chapters  contained  in 
Medical  Notes  and  Reflections  by  the  same 
Author.    Second  Edition.    Post  8vo.  8s.  6d* 

Hooker.— Kew  Gardens ;  or,  a  Popular 

Guide  to  the  Royal  Botanic  Gardens  of 
Eew.  By  Sib  William  Jackson  Hookeb, 
KJEL,  Ac.,  Director.    16mo.  price  Sixpence. 

Hooker's  Museum  of  Economio Botany;  or,  a 
Popular  Guide  to  the  Useful  and  Remark- 
able Vegetable  Products  of  the  Museum 
in  the  Royal  Gardens  of  Eew.    16mo.  Is. 

Hooker  and  Arnott— The  British  Flora ; 

comprising  the  Phamogamous  or  Flowering 
Plants,  and  the  Ferns.  Seventh  Edition, 
with  Additions  and  Corrections ;  and  nu- 
merous Figures  illustrative  of  the  Umbelli- 
ferous Plants,  the  Composite  Plants,  the 
Grasses,  and  the  Ferns.  By  Sib  W.  J. 
Hooeeb,  F.R.A.  and  L.S.,  &c. ;  and  G.  A. 
Walkbb-Arnott,  LL.D.,  F.L.S.  12mo. 
with  12  Plates,  price  14s.  j  with  the  Plates 
coloured,  price  21s. 

Home's  Introduction  to  the   Critical 

Study  and  Knowledge  of  the  Holy  Scrip- 
tures. Tenth  Edition,  revised,  corrected, 
and  brought  down  to  the  present  time. 
Edited  by  the  Rev.  T.  Habtwbll  Hobnb, 
B.D.  (the  Author);  the  Rev.  Samuel 
Davidson,  D.D.  of  the  University  of  Halle, 
and  LL.D. ;  and  S.  Pbideaux  Tbegelles, 
LL.D.  With  4  Maps  and  22  Vignettes  and 
Facsimiles.    4  vols.  8vo.  £3. 13s.  6d. 

*«*  The  Four  Volumes  may  also  be  hod  separately  as 
follows  :— 

Vol.  I.— A  Summary  of  the  Evidence  for  the  Genuineness 
Authenticity,  Uncorrupted  Preservation,  and  Inspiration  of 
the  Holy  Scriptures.  By  the  Rev.  T.  H.  Home,  B.D. .  8vo.l5s. 

Vol.  II.— The  Text  of  the  Old  Testament  considered :  With 
a  Treatise  on  Sacred  Interpretation :  and  a  brief  Introduc- 
tion to  the  Old  Testament  Books  and  the  Apocrypha.  By  S. 
Davidson,  D.D.  (Halle)  and  LL.D 8vo.  25s. 

Vol..  III.— A  Summaryof  Biblical  Geography  and  Anti- 
quities.   By  the  Rev.  T.  H.  Home,  B.D 8vo.  1S«. 

Vol,.  IV.-An  Introduction  to  the  Textual  CriUcism  of  the 
New  Testament.  By  the  Rev.  T.  H.  Home,  B.D.  The 
Critical  Part  re-written,  and  the  remainder  revised  and 

edited  by  S.  P.  Tregolles,  LLJ> ....8vo.  tts. 

B  5 


Digitized  by* 


ioogle 


10 


NEW  WOBKS  un>  NBW  EDITIONS 


Home.  —  A  Compendious  Introduction 

to  the  Study  of  the  Bible.  By  the  Bev. 
I.  Hastwxll  Hobxe,  B  J).  New  Edition, 
with  Maps  and  Illustrations,    12mo.  9s. 

Hoskyns.— Talpa ;  or,  the  Chronicles  of 

a  Clay  Farm :  An  Agricultural  Fragment. 
By  Chantos  Wren  Hoskyns,  Esq.  Fqurth 
Edition.  With  24  Woodcuts  from  the 
original  Designs  by  &bob»e  Cbuikshank. 
16mo.  price  5s.  6<L 

How  to  Nurse  Sick  Children :  Intended 

especially  as  a  Help  to  the  Nurses  in  the 
Hospital  for  Sick  Children  ;  but  containing 
Directions  of  service  to  all  who  have  the 
charge  of  the  Young.    Fcp.  8vo.  Is.  6cL 

Howitt  (A.  M.)— An  Art-Student  in 
Munich.  By  Anna  Mabt  Howrre.  2 
vols,  post  8vo.  price  14s. 

Howitt.— The  Children's  Tear.  By  Mary 

Howitt.  With  Four  Illustrations,  from 
Designs  by  A.  M.  Howitt.  Square  16mo.  5a. 

Howitt— Tallangetta,   the    Squatter's 

Home :  A  Story  of  Australian.  Life.  By 
William  Howitt,  Author  of  Two  Tears  in 
Victoria,  Ac.    2  toIs.  post  8vo.  price  18s. 

Howitt.— Land,    Labour,   and   Gold; 

or,  Two  Years  in  Victoria :  With  Visit  to 
Sydney  and  Van  Diemen's  Land.  By 
William  Howitt.  Second  Edition,  con- 
taining  the  most  recent  Information  re- 
garding the  Colony.  2  vols,  crown  8vo. 
price  10s. 

Howitt.— Visits  to  Remarkable  Places : 

Old  Halls,  Battle-Fields,  and  Scenes  illustra- 
tive of  Striking  Passages  in  English  History 
and  Poetry.  By  William  Howitt.  With 
about  80  Wood  Engravings.  New  Edition. 
2  vols,  square  crown  8vo.  price  25s. 

William  Howitt' 8  Boy's  Country  Book:  Being 
the  Real  Life  of  a  Country  Boy,  written 
by  himself;  exhibiting  all  the  Amusements, 
Pleasures,  and  Pursuits  of  Children  in  the 
Country.  New  Edition ;  with  40  Wood- 
cuts.   Fcp.  8vo.  price  6s. 

Howitt.— The  Bural  Life  of  England.  By 
William  Howitt.  New  Edition,  cor- 
rected and  revised;  with  Woodcuts  by 
Bewick  and  Williams.    Medium  8vo.  21s. 

Hue- Christianity  in  China,  Tartary, 

and  Thibet.  By  M.  1' Abbe*  Hue,  formerly 
Missionary  Apostolic  in  China ;  Author  of 
The  Chinese  Empire,  &c.  Vols.  I.  and  II. 
8ro.  21s. ;  and  Vol.  III.  price  10s.  6d. 


Hue— The  Chinese  Empire :  A  Seqiei 

to  Hue  and  Gabet's  Journey  through  Tvtsr. 
and  Thibet  By  the  Abbe*  Hue,  fonnc 
Missionary  Apostolic  in  China.  S*r 
Edition  ;  with  Map.     2  Tola.  8vo.  2*s. 

Hudson's  Plain  Directions  for  llikisf 

Wills  in  conf oasnity  with  the  Lsw :  Weh » 
clear  Exposition  of  the  Law  relating  to  ti- 
distribution  of  Personal  Estate  in  the  a- 
of  Intestacy,  two  Forms  of  Wills,  and  m&  - 
useful  information.  New  ansl  enlarged  Ec 
tion ;  including  the  Provision*  of  the  WD 
Act  Amendment  Act.     Fcp.  8vo.  2a.  6d. 

Hudson's  Executor's  Guide.    Hew  m 

enlarged  Edition,  revised  by  the  Autk* 
with  reference  to  the  latest  reported  Qso 
and  Acts  of  Parliament.     Fop.  8to.  6s. 

Hudson  and  Kenae*?.— Whm  tberti 

a  Will  there's  a  Way :  An  Aeoent  of  Most 
Blanc  by  a  New  Boute  and  Without  Guides. 
By  the  Rev.  0.  HtrraoN,  M.  A.,  and  E.  S. 
Kennedy,  B  A.  Second  Edition,  with  Plate 
and  Map.    Post  8to.  5s.  6dL 

Humboldft  Cosmos.    Translated,  with 

the  Author's  authority,  by  Mns.  Sasnrx. 
Vols.  I.  and  II.  16mo.  Haifa-Crown  esca 
sewed  ;  3s.  6d.  each,  cloth  :  or  in  post  8*c 
12s.  each,  cloth.  Vol.  III.  post  frv 
12s.  ad.  doth :  or  in  16mo.  Pabt  L  2s.  64 
sewed,  3s.  6d.  cloth  ?  and  Pabt  H.  3a.  sewed. 
4s.  cloth.  Vol.  IV.  Pabt  L  peat  8ra.  15*. 
cloth ;  and  16mo.  price  7s.  6d.  cloth,  or 
7s.  sewed. 

Humboldt's  Aspects  of  Nature.  Translate* 
with  the  Authors  authority,  by  M b&Smxsi 
16mo.  price  6s. :  or  in  2  vols.  3a.  6ct  each 
cloth ;  2s.  6d.  each,  sewed. 

Humphreys.  —  Parables  of  Our  Lord, 

illuminated  and  ornamented  in  the  stjh  c-t 
the  Missals  of  the  Benaissence  br  Hear 
Noel  Humphreys.  Square  fcp.  *8vo.  21*. 
in  massive  carved  covers ;  or  30a.  bound  in 
morocco  by  Hayday. 

Hunt.  — Researches  on   Light   in 

Chemical  Relations  ;  embracing  a  Cot- 
sideration  of  all  the  Photographic  Processed 
By  Bobebt  Hunt,  F.B.S.  Second  Edition, 
with  Plate  and  Woodcuts.     8to.  10a.  6<L 

Hutchinson.— Impressions  of  Western 

Africa  :  With  a  Report  on  the  Peculiarity 
of  Trade  up  the  Bivere  in  the  Bight  <  i 
Biafra.  By  T.  J.  Hutchinson,  E*o, 
British  Consul  for  the  Bight  of  Biafra  sr* 
the  Island  of  Fernando  Po^  Post  Sto. 
price  8s.  6d. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


PTTBLISHBI>  BX  LONGMAN,  BROWN,  ATO  CO. 


11 


Idle.— Hints  on  Shooting,  Fishing,  ftc, 

both  on  Sea  and  Land,  and  in  the  Freeh- 
Water  Lochs  of  Scotland :  Being  the  Expe- 
riences of  O.  Idxb,  Esq.    Pep-.  8vn.  5b. 

Mrs.  Jameson's  Legends  of  the  Saints 

and  Martyrs,  as  represented  in  Christian  Art : 
Forming  the  Fibst  Sebies  of  Sacred  and 
Legendary  Art.  Third  Edition,  revised  and 
improved;  with  17  Etchings  and  upwards 
of  180  Woodcuts,  many  of  which  are  new 
in  this  Edition.  2  vols,  square  crown  8vo. 
price  31s.  6d. 

Mrs.  Jameson's  Legends  of  the  Monastic 
Orders,  as  represented  in  Christian  Art. 
Forming  the  Second  Series  of  Sacred  and 
Legendary  Art*  Second  Edition,  enlarged ; 
with  11  Etchings  by  the  Author,  and  88 
Woodcuts.    Square  crown  8vo.  price  28a. 

Mrs.  Jameson's  Legend!  of  the  Madonna, 
as  represented  in  Christian  Art :  Forming 
the  Thibd  Seeies  of  Sacred  and  Legendary 
Art.  Second  Edition,  corrected  and  en- 
larged ;  with  27  Etchings  and  165  Wood 
Engravings.    Square  crown  8vo.  price  28s. 

Mrs.  Jameson's  Commonplace-Book  of 

Thoughts,  Memories,  and  Fancies,  Original 
and  Selected.  Past  I.  Ethics  and  Character ; 
Part  II.  Literature  and  Art.  Second  Edit. 
revised  and  corrected;  with  Etchings  and 
WoodcutB.    Crown  8vo.  18s. 

Mrs.  Jameson's  Two  Lectures  on  the  Employ- 
ment of  Women :  — 

1.  Sisters  of  Chabttt,   Catholic   and  Protestant, 

Abroad  and  at  Home.   Second  Edition,  with  new 
Preface.   Pcp.8vo.4a. 

2.  Tk&  Comrmnow  of  Labour:  A  Second  Leetwe  ou 

the  Social  Employment  of  Women.    Fcp.  8vo.  8e. 

Jaquemet's  Compendium  of  Chronology: 

Containing  the  most  important  Dates  of 
O-eneral  History,  Political,  Ecclesiastical, 
and  Literary,  from  the  Creation  of  the 
World  to  the  end  of  the  Year  1854.  Edited 
by  the  Eev.  J.  Ajlcobh,  M.A.  Second 
Edition.    Post  8vo.  price  7s.. 6d. 

Jaqnemet's   Chronology  for  Schools: 

Containing  the  most  important  Bates  of 
General  History,  Political,  Ecclesiastical, 
and .  Literary,  from  the  Creation  of  the 
World  to  the  end  of  the  year  1857.  Edited 
by  the  Rev.  John  Alcobn,  M.A.  Fop.  8vo. 
price  3s.  6d. 

Lord  Jeffrey's   Contributions  to  The 

Edinburgh  Review.  A  New  Edition,  com- 
plete in  One  Volume,  with  a  Portrait  en- 
graved by  Henry  Robinson,  and  a  Vignette. 
Square  crown  8vo.  21s.  cloth  j  or  80s.  calf.— 
Or  in  3  vols.  8vo.  price  42s. 


Bishop  Jeremy  Taylor's  Entire  Works : 

With  Life  by  Bishop  Hbbbb.  Revised  and 
corrected  by  the  Rev.  Chablbs  Page  Edejj, 
Fellow  of  Oriel  College,  Oxford.  Now 
complete  in  10  vols.  8vo.  10s.  6d.  each. 

Johnston.— A  Dictionary  of  Geography, 

Descriptive,  Physical,  Statistical,  and  Histori- 
cal: lorming  a  complete  General  Gazetteer 
of  the  World.  By  A.  Keith  Johnston, 
F.R.SJE.,  F.R.G.S.,  F.G-.S.,  Geographer  at 
Edinburgh  in  Ordinary  to  Her  Majesty. 
Second  Edition,  thoroughly  revised.  In  1 
vol.  of  1,360  pages,  comprising  about  50,000 
Names  of  Places.  8vo.  86s.  cloth;  or  half- 
bound  in  russia,  41s. 

Kemble  — The  Saxons  in  England :  A 

History  of  the  English  Commonwealth  till 
the  Norman  Conquest.  By  John  M.  Ebm- 
ble,  MjL,  &c.    2  vols.  8vo.  28s. 

Kesteven.— A  Manual  of  the  Domestic 

Practice  of  Medicine.  BvW.B.Ebstbten, 
Fellow  of  the.  Royal  College  of  Surgeons  of 
England,  &c.    Square  post  8vo.  7s.  6d. 

Kirby  and  Spence's  Introduction  to 

Entomology ;  or,  Elements  of  the  Natural 
History  of  Insects :  Comprising  an  Account 
of  Noxious  and  Useful  Insects,  of  their  Meta- 
morphoses, Food,  Stratagems,  Habitations, 
Societies,  Motions,  Noises,  Hybernation, 
Instinct,  &c.  Seventh  Edition,  with  an  Ap- 
pendix relative  to  the  Origin  and  Progress 
of  the  work.    Crown  8vo.  6s. 

Mrs.  R.  Lee's  Elements  of  Natural  His- 
tory; or,  First  Principles  of  Zoology :  Com- 
prising the  Principles  of  Classification,  inter- 
spersed with  amusing  and  instructive  Ac- 
counts of  the  most  remarkable  Animals. 
New  Edition;  Woodcuts.    Fcp. 8vo. 7s. 6d. 

The  Letters  of  a  Betrothed.   Fcp.  8vo. 

price  5s.  cloth. 

Letters  to  my  Unknown  Friends.   By 

a  Lady,  Author  of  Letter*  on  Happiness. 
Fourth  Edition.      Fcp.  8vo.  6s. 

Letters  on  Happiness,  addressed  to  a  Friend. 
By  a  Lady,  Author  of  Letters  to  my  Unknown 
Friends.    Fop.  8vo.  6s. 

L.E.L.— The  Poetical  Works  of  Letitia 

Elizabeth  Landon;  comprising  the  Impro- 
visatrice,  the  Venetian  Bracelet,  the  Golden 
Violet,  the  Troubadour,  and  Poetical  Remains. 
New  Edition ;  with  2  VignetteB  by  R.  Doyle. 
2  vols.  16mo.  10s.  cloth ;  morocco,  21s. 

b6 

Digitized  by  VjOOQI 


\vc 


12 


NEW  WORKS  ahd  NEW  EDITIONS 


LARDNER'S   CABINET   CYCLOPAEDIA 


Of  History,  Biography,  literature,  the  Arts  and  Sciences,  Natural  History,  and 

A  Series  of  Original  Works  by 

Thomas  Ksiobtliy, 

John  Forstkr, 
Sir  Walter  Scott, 
Thomas  Moors, 

AND  OTHER  EMINENT  WrITBRS. 

Complete  in  183  vols.  fcp.  8vo.  with  Vignette  Titles,  price,  in  cloth,  Nineteen  Guineas. 
The  Work*  separately ,  in  Sets  or  Series,  price  Three  Shillings  end  Sixpence  each  Vol 


Sir  John  Hssschbl, 
Sir  Jambs  Mackintosh, 
Robbrt  South  by, 
Sir  Datid  Brbwbtbr, 


Bisnor  Thirlwall, 
Thb  Rbt.  O.  R.  Gl&icj, 

J.  C  L  Dl  SlSMOHDI, 

John  Phillips,  F.R.S.,  G.S. 


A  Hit  of  Me  Works  compoting  the  Cabinet  Cyclopedia  :- 


13. 
14. 

15. 

16. 


1.  Bell's  History  of  Russia 3  rota.  10s.  Od. 

2.  Bell's  Lives  of  British  Poets 1  vole.  7s. 

8.  Brewster's  Optica  lTol.8e.3d. 

4.  Coolers  Maritime  and  Inland  Discovery  3  vole.  10s.  3d. 

5.  Crowe's  History  of  France 3  vols.  10s.  6d. 

6.  De  Morgan  on  Probabilities 1vol.  3s.  3d. 

7.  De  Sismondi's  History  of  the  Italian 

Republics 1  vol.  Ss.  3d. 

8.  De  Sismondi'B  Fall  of  the  Roman  Empire  Z  vole.  7s. 

9.  Donovan's  Chemistry  1  vol.  Ss.  3d. 

10.  Donovan's  Doxneetio  Economy Z  vols.  7s. 

U .  Dunham's  Spain  and  Portugal 5  vols.  17s.  3d. 

13.  Dunham's  History  of  Denmark,  Sweden, 

and  Norway 8  vols.  10s.  3d. 

Dunham's  History  of  Poland 1vol.  Ss.  3d. 

Dunham's  Germanic  Empire 8  vols.  10s.  3d. 

Dunham's  Europe  during  the  Middle 

Ages 4  vols.  14s. 

Dunham's  British  Dramatists 8  vols.  7s. 

17.  Dunham's  Llvee  of  Early  Writers   of 

Great  Britain  1vol.  Ss.  3d. 

18.  Fergus's  History  of  the  United  States  . .  2  vols.  7s. 

19.  Fosbroke's  Grecian  ft  Soman  Antiquities  8  vols.  7s. 

20.  Forster*s  Lives  of  the  Statesmen  of  the 

Commonwealth  5  vols.  17s.  3d. 

21.  Glelg's  Lives  of  British  Military  Com- 

manders  3  vols.  10s.  3d. 

22.  Grattan's  History  of  the  Netherlands ...  1  vol.  Ss.  3d. 

23.  Henslow's  Botany lvol.  Ss.  3d. 

24.  Herschel's  Astronomy 1  vol.  Ss.  3d. 

25.  Herschel's  Discourse  on  Natural  Philo- 

sophy   1  vol.  3s.  3d. 

26.  History  of  Rome 2  vols.  7s. 

27.  History  of  Switzerland. lvol.  8s.  3d. 

28.  Holland's  Manufactures  in  Metal 3  vols.  10s.  3d. 

20.  James's  Lives  of  Foreign  Statesmen ....  5  vols.  17s.  3d. 

80.  Kater  and  Lardner's  Mechanics 1  vol.  Ss.  Gd. 

81.  Kelghtley's  Outlines  of  History 1  vol.  Ss.  3d. 

38.  Lardner's  Arithmetic : .  1  vol.  Ss.  3d. 

83.  Lardner's  Geometry lvul.Ss.3d. 


34.  LardneronHeat IvoLavCt 

85.  Lardner's  Hydrostatics  and  Pneumatics  1  toL  8a.  fid. 

86.  Lardner  and  Walker's  Electricity  and 

Magnetism 2  vols,  7s. 

87.  Mackintosh,  Forster,  and   Coortenaj's 

Lives  of  British  Statesmen 7  toss.  2s#.  fri 

88.  Mackintosh,  Wallace,  and  Bell's  History 

of  England 10vosa.Se. 

89.  Montgomery  and  Shelley's  eminent  Ita- 

lian, 8panlsh.  and  Portuguese  Authors  3  vols.  Me,  31 

40.  Moore's  History  of  Ireland 4  vols,  Its. 

41.  Nicolas's  Chronology  of  History 1  vest  3s.  €1 

42.  PhUUps's  Treatise  on  Geology trots.  7s. 

43.  Powell's  History  of  Natural  Fhilosopeiy  1  voL  S*.  31 

44.  Porter's  Treatise  on  the  Manufacture  of 

Silk IvoLfe.&L 

45.  Porter's  Manufactures  of  Porcelain  and 

Glass 1  voLS*.  61 

43.  Roecoe's  British  Lawyers lTcd.3s.Sd. 

47.  Scott's  History  of  Scotland X  vote.  7s. 

48.  Shelley's    Llvee    of  eminent    French 

Authors 2  vols.  7s. 

49.  Shuckard and Swainson's Insecta lvaL3s.6i 

50.  Southey's  Lives  of  British  Admirals 3  vols.  17s.  «A. 

51.  Stebbing's Church  History 2vesa.7s, 

52.  Stebbing's  History  of  the  Reformation. .  2  vols.  7s. 

53.  Swainson's  Discourse  on  Natural  History  1  voL  Ss.  fit 

54.  Swainson's  Natural  History  and  OasssV 

flcation  of  Animals lvoi.Ss.6J. 

55.  Swainson's   Habits   and    Instincts   of 

Animals 1  vol.3*,  fid. 

53.  Swainson's  Birds S  vats.  7s. 

57.  Swainson's  Fish,  Reptile*,  Ac S  vets.  7s. 

68.  8wainson's Quadrupeds lvoL3a.$A 

69.  Swainson's  Shells  and  Shell-Fish l*oL3s,6t 

60.  Swainson's  Animals  in  Menageries lvoLSs.61 

61.  Swainson's  Taxidermy  and  Biography  of 

Zoologists lvel.Ss.frL 

62.  Thirlwall's  History  of  Greece 8  vols.  23s. 


Dr.  John  Lindley's  Theory  and  Practice 

of  Horticulture  ;  or,  an  Attempt  to  explain 
the  principal  Operations  of  Gardening  upon 
Physiological  Grounds :  Being  the  Second 
Edition  of  the  Theory  of  Horticulture,  much 
enlarged ;  with  98  Woodcuts.    8vo.  21s. 

Dr.    John    Lindley's  Introduction  to 

Botany.  New  Edition,  with  Corrections  and 
copious  Additions.  2  vols.  8vo.  with  Six 
Plates  and  numerous  Woodcuts,  price  24s. 

Lorimer's  (C.)  Letters  to  a  Young  Master 

Mariner  on  some  Subjects  connected  with 
his  Calling.    Now  Edition.  Fcp.  8vo.  6s.  6d. 


Linwood.— Anthologia  Oxonienais,  she 

Florilegium  e  Lusibus  poeticis  dtversorua 
Oxoniensium  Gtaecis  et  Latinis  deeerptm. 
Curante  GtoiJBLMO  Linwood,  M.A.,  £&* 
Chriflti  Alumno.    8vo.  price  14s. 

London's  Encyclopedia  of  Agriculture: 

Comprising  the  Theory  and  Practice  of  the 
Valuation,  Transfer,  Laying-out,  Improve- 
ment, and  Management  of  Landed  Property 
and  of  the  Cultivation  and  Economy  of  the 
Animal  and  Vegetable  Productions  of  Agri- 
culture. New  and  cheaper  Edition;  with 
1,100  Woodcuts.    8ro.  31s.  6d. 


Digitized  by  VjOOv  iC 


PTTBLMHED  BT  LONGMAN,  BBOWN,  AND  CO. 


13 


liOudon's  Encyclopedia  of  Gardening: 

Comprising  the  Theory  and  Practice  of  Hor- 
ticulture, Floriculture,  Arboriculture,  and 
landscape- Gbrdeniug.  With  many  hundred 
Woodcuts.  New  Edition,  corrected  and 
improved  by  Mbs.  Loudon.    8vo.  50b. 

Loudon's  Encyclopedia  of  Trees  and 

Shrubs,  or  Arboretum  et  Frutieetum  Briton- 
nicwn  abridged :  Containing  the  Hardy  Trees 
and  Shrubs  of  Great  Britain,  Native  and 
Foreign,  Scientifically  and  Popularly  De- 
scribed. With  about  2,000  Woodcuts. 
8vo.  price  50s. 

London's  Encyclopedia  erf  Plants:  Com- 
prising the  Specific  Character,  Description, 
Culture,  History,  Application  in  the  Arts, 
and  every  other  desirable  Particular  respect- 
ing all  the  Plants  found  in  Great  Britain. 
New  Edition,  corrected  by  Mbs.  Loudoit. 
With  upwards  of  12,000  Woodcuts.  8vo. 
£3.  13s.  6d.— Second  Supplement,  21s. 

London's  Encyclopedia    of   Cottage, 

Farm,  and  Villa  Architecture  and  Furniture. 
New  Edition,  edited  by  Mbs.  Loudoit  ;  with 
more  than  2,000  Woodcuts.    8vo.  63s. 

London's  Hortns  Britannicns ;  or,  Cata- 
logue of  all  the  Plants  found  in  Great 
Britain.  New  Edition,  corrected  by  Mbs. 
Loudoh.    8vo.  31s.  6d. 

Mrs.  London's  Lady's  Country  Compa- 
nion; or,  How  to  Enjoy  a  Country  Life 
Rationally.  Fourth  Edition,  with  Plates 
and  Woodcuts.    Fcp.  8vo.  6s. 

Mrs.   London's    Amateur    Gardener's 

Calendar,  or  Monthly  Guide  to  what  should 
be  avoided  and  done  in  a  Garden.  New 
Edition.    Crown  8vo.  with  Woodcuts,  7s.  6d. 

•    LoVsElements  of  Practical  Agriculture; 

comprehending  the  Cultivation  of  Plants,  the 
Husbandry  of.  the  Domestic  Animals,  and 
the  Economy  of  the  Farm.  New  Edition ; 
with  200  Woodcuts.    8vo.  21s. 

Macanlay.— Speeches  of  the  Right  Hon. 

Lord  Macanlay.  Corrected  by  Himself. 
8to.  price  12s.— -Lord  Macaulay's  Speeches 
on  Parliamentary  Beform,  16mo.  price  Is. 

Macanlay.  —  The  History  of  England 

from  the  Accession  of  James  II.  By 
the  Bight  Hon.  Lobd  Maoaulay.  New 
Edition.  Vols.  I.  and  U.  8vo.  price  82s. ; 
Vols.  III.  and  IT.  price  36s. 


Lord  Macanlay's  History  of  England 

from  the  Accession  of  James  II.  New 
Edition  of  the  first  Four  Volumes  of  the 
8vo.  Edition,  revised  and  corrected.  7  vols, 
post  8vo.  price  6s.  each. 

Lord  Macanlay's  Critical  and  Historical 

Essays  contributed  to  The  Edinburgh 
Beview.    Four  Editions,  as  follows : — 

L  A  Libwi  Editiow  (the  Nintk\  in  3  rols.  8to  . 
price  Sob. 

%.  Complete  in  Oir»  Voluiq,  with  Portrait  and  Visr- 
4&  call        ro  Cr°WD  8T0,  ^^  iU*  doth;  °r 

8.  Another  New  Editioit,  in  S  tcIs.  fop.  8ro.  price 
sis.  cloth. 

*•  '*&*  PsprLB's  Enrnoir,  in  t  rote,  crown  8ro.  price 
Ss.  cloth. 

Macanlay.— Lays  of  Ancient  Rome,  with 

Ivry  and  the  Armada.  By  the  Bight 
Hon.  Lobd  Macaulay.  New  Edition. 
16mo.  price  4s.  6d.  cloth;  or  10s.  6<L 
bound  in  morocco. 

Lord  Macanlay's  Lays  of  Ancient  Borne. 

With  numerous  Illustrations,  Original  and 
from  the  Antique,  drawn  on  Wood  by 
George  Scharf,  jun.,  and  engraved  by  Samuel 
Williams.  New  Edition.  Fcp.  4to.  price 
21s.  boards  ;  or  42s.  bound  in  morocco. 

Mac    Donald.  —  Poems.     By  George 

Mao  Donald,  Author  of  Within  and  lFith- 
out,    Fcp.  8vo.  7s. 

Mac  Donald.— Within  and  Without:  A 
Dramatic  Poem.  By  Gbobgb  Mao  Donald. 
Second  Edition }  revised.    Fcp.  8vo.  4s.  6d. 

MacDougall.— The  Theory  of  War  illus- 
trated by  numerous  Examples  from  His- 
tory. By  Lieutenant -Colonel  MacDottgall, 
Commandant  of  the  Staff  College.  Second 
Edition,  revised.  Post  8vo.  with  10  Plans 
of  Battles,  price  10s.  6d. 

HacDougalL -The  Campaigns '  of  Hannibal, 

arranged  ancl  critically  considered,  ex- 
pressly for  the  use  of  Students  of  Military 
History.  By  Lieut.-Col.  P.  L.  MacDottgail, 
Commandant  of  the  Staff  College.  Post 
8yo.  with  Map,  7s.  6d. 

M'Dougall.— The  Eventfal  Voyage  of 

H.M.  Discovery  Ship  Resolute  to  the  Arctic 
Regions  in  Search  of  Sir  John  Franklin  and 
the  Musing  Crews  of  H.M.  lHscoverg  Ships 
Erebus  and  Terror,  1852,  1853,  1854.  By 
George  F.  M'Dougall,  Master.  With  a 
coloured  Chart;  8  Illustrations  in  tinted 
Lithography  j  and  22  Woodcuts.  8vo.  price 
21s.  cloth. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


14 


NEW  WORKS  in  NEW  EDITIONS 


Sir  James  Mackintosh's  Miscellaneous 

Works :  Including  his  Contribution*  to  The 
Edinburgh  Review.  Complete  in  One 
Volume ;  with  Portrait  and  Vignette. 
Square  crown  8vo.  21s.  cloth ;  or  30*.  bound 
in  calf:  or  in  3  vols.  fcp.  8vo.  21s. 

Sir  James  Mackintosh's  History  of  England 
from  the  Earliest  Times  to  the  final  Esta- 
blishment of  the  Reformation.  Library  Edi- 
tion, revised.    2  vols.  8vo.  21s. 

Macleod.  —  The  Elements  of  Political 
Economy.  By  Henry  Dunning  Macleod, 
Barrister-at-Law.     8vo.  16s. 

Macleod.— The  Theory  and  Practice  of  Bank- 
ing: With  the  Elementary  Principles  of 
Currency,  Prices,  Credit,  and  Exohangss. 
By  Henry  Dunning  Maoxbod*  Barrister- 
at-Law.    2  vols,  royal  8vo.  price  30b. 

M'Culloch's  Dictionary,  Practical,  Theo- 
retical, and  Historical,  of  Commerce  and 
Commercial  Navigations.  Illustrated  with 
Maps  and  Plana.  New  Edition,  thoroughly 
revised  and  corrected  ;  with  a  Supplement. 
8vo.  price  60s.  cloth ;  half-russia,  56s. 

M'Culloch's  Dictionary,   Geographical, 

Statistical,  and  Historical,  of  the  various 
Countries,  Places,  and  principal  Natural 
Objects  in  the  World.  Illustrated  with  Six 
large  Maps.  New  Edition,  revised;  with  a 
Supplement.    2  vols.  8vo.  price  63s. 

Maguire— Rome;  its  Ruler  and  its  In- 
stitutions. By  John  Francis  Maguiee, 
M.P.  With  a  Portrait  of  Pope  Pius  IX. 
Post  8vo.  price  10s.  6d. 

Mrs.  Marcef  s  Conversations  on  Natural 

Philosophy,  in  which  the  Elements  of  that 
Science  are  familiarly  explained.  Thirteenth 
Edition,  enlarged  and  corrected;  with  84 
Plates.    Fcp.  8vo.  price  10s.  6d. 

Mrs.  Harcet's  Conversations  on  Chemistry, 

in  wliich  the  Elements  of  that  Science 
are  familiarly  explained  and  illustrated  by 
Experiments.  New  Edition,  enlarged  and 
improved.     2  vols.  fcp.  8vo.  price  14s. 

Martinean.  —  Studies   of  Christianity: 

A  Series  of  Original  Papers,  now  first  col- 
lected or  new.  By  James  Mabtinbau. 
Crown  8vo.  7s.  6dl. 

Martinean.  —  Endeavours  after  the  Christian 
Life  :  Discourses.  By  James  Maetiitbau. 
2  vols,  post  8vo.  7s.  6d.each. 


Martinean.— Hymns  for  the  Gtanrfa: 

Church  and  Home.  Collected  and  edited  I 
Jambs  Maetiheau.  EhvetUA  lS*Vtie*,12= 
3s. 6d. cloth, or 5s. calf;  FtflJk £di*iom,XL- 
ls.  4d.  cloth,  or  Is.  8d.  roam. 


Martinean.— Miscellaniea: 
on  Dr.  Priestley,  Arnold's  Idfe  *nd  lie.-' 
ipondence,  Church  and  State,  Hwodaa 
Parker's  Diteoune  of  ReHgumt  "Phase*  «." 
Faith,"  the  Church  of  England,  and  tii 
Battle  of  the  Churches.  By  Jabqb  Mas 
viEBAir.    Post  8vo.  9s. 

Maunders  Scientific  and  Literary  Trea- 
sury :  A  new  and  popular  Encyclopaedia  d 
Science  and  tne  Beflee-Lettree  ;  mciv&* 
all  branches  of  Science,  and  every  subjec 
connected  with  Literature  and  Art.  &v 
Edition.  Fcp.  8vo.  price  10a.  doth  •  boicJ 
in  roan,  12s.  ;  calf,  12s.  6d. 

Maonder's  Biographical  Treasury;  can- 

sisting  of  Memoirs,  Sketches,  and  Inc 
Notices  of  above  12,000  Eminent  Person*  a' 
All  Ages  and  Nations,  from  the  Earfiefi 
Period  of  History :  Forming  a  new  and  roe- 
plete  Dictionary  of  Universal  Biograpfir 
Ninth  Edition,  revised  throughout.  Pepite 
10s.  cloth;  bound  in  roan,  12s. ;  csJf^  Ida.  6i 

Maunders  Treasury  of  Knowledge,  aid 

Library  of  .Reference.  Comprisingan  Eag- 
lish  Dictionary  and  Grammar,  a  Uinvenm. 
Gazetteer,  a  Classical  Dictionary,  a  Chrono- 
logy, a  Law  Dictionary,  a  8ynopsaa  of  the 
Peerage,  numerous  useful  Tables,  &c  2?e* 
Edition,  carefully  revised  and  eorrectea 
throughout :  With  Additions.  Fcp.  $*x 
10s.  cloth ;  bound  in  roan,  12a. ;  ea]£  12s.  6c 

Mamder's  Treasury  of  Natural  History 

or,  a  Popular  Dictionary  of  Annuatec 
Nature :  In  which  the  Zoological  Character' 
istics  that  distinguish  the  different  Qawea, 
Genera,  and  Species,  are  combined  withi 
variety  of  interesting  Information  illustrate  ? 
of  the  Habits,  Instincts,  and  General  Eco- 
nomy of  the  Animal  Kingdom.  With  90C 
Woodcuts.  New  Edition.  Fcp.  8vo.  price 
10s.  cloth;  roan,  12s.;  calf,  12s.  6d. 


Maonder's  Historical  Treasury;  com- 
prising a  General  Introductory  Outline  t>: 
Universal  History,  Ancient  and  Moderr 
and  a  Series  of  separate  Histories  of  ererv 
principal  Nation  that  exists;  their  JRee, 
Progress,  and  Present  Condition,  the  Moral 
and  Social  Character  of  their  respective  In- 
habitants, their  Religion,  Manners  and  Cus- 
toms, Ac.  New  Edition  ;  revised  through- 
out, with  a  new  General  Ibdkx.  Fcp.  8vo. 
10s.  cloth ;  roan,  12s. ;  calf,  12s.  6dL 


Digitized  by* 


ioogle 


published  bt  LONGMAN,  BROWN,  ahd  CO. 


15 


Mauader's    Geographical  Treasury.— 

The  Treasury  of  Geography,  Physical,  His- 
torical, Descriptive,  and  Political ;  contain- 
ing a  succinct  Account  of  Every  Country  in 
the  World :  Preceded  by  an  Introductory 
Outline  of  the  History  of  Geography;  a 
Familiar  Inquiry  into  the  Varieties  of  Race 
and  Language  exhibited  by  different  Nations; 
and  a  View  of  the  Relations  of  Geography 
to  Astronomy  and  Physical  Science.  Com- 
pleted by  William  Hughes,  F.R.G.S.  New 
Edition ;  with  7  Maps  and  16  Steel  Plates. 
Fcp.  8?o.  10s.  cloth ;  roan,  12s. ;  calf,  12s.  6d. 

Merivale.  —  A  History  of  the  Romans 

under  the  Empire.  By  the  Rev.  Chables 
Meritale,  BJD.,  late  Fellow  of  St.  John's 
College,  Cambridge.    8vo.  with  Maps. 

Vols.  I.  and  II.  comprising  the  History  to  the  Fall  of 
Julius  Caear.    Second  Edition 28s. 

Vol.  ILL  to  the  eetafaUahinent  of  the  Monarchy  by  A* 
trnetne.    Second  Edition lie. 

Vols.  IV.  and  V.  from  Angustu*  to  Ckmdime,  B.C.  87  to 
A.D.  54 82s. 

Vol.  VI.  from  the  Reign  of  Nero,  A.D.  64,  to  the  FaU  of 
Jerusalem,  a.d.  70 16e. 

Merivale,— The  Pall  of  the  Roman  Republic: 
A  Short  History  of  the  Lost  Century  of 
the  Commonwealth.  By  the  Bey.  C.  Meri- 
vale, B.D.,  late  Fellow  of  St.  John's  College, 
Cambridge.    New  Edition.    12mo.  7s.  6d. 

Merivale  (Miss).— Christian  Records:  A 

Short  History  of  Apostolic  Age.  By  L.  A. 
Mxbivalb.    Fcp.  8vo.  7s.  6d. 


••  Thie  interesting  and  in- 
Htrnctive  little  volume  is 
worthy  of  the  attention  of 
all  students.  It  contains  a 
concise  paraphrase  of  the 
Acte  of  the  Apostle*,  occa- 
sionally Introducing  the 
words  of  the  narrative  itself, 
with  suggestions  for  more 
correct  translations  of  the 
original  In  certain  places, 
together  with  much  valuable 
information  to  lllustrsi  o  the 
history We  heartily  re- 
commend this  work  to  those 


whs>   are    engaged    in 
instruction   of    tli 


the 


miwr  dprise  rnniir  u-*ful 
hints  rrtmi  it.  Aii'l  tlmse 
who  sire  preparing  for  any 
examination  at  vhk-h  a 
lmuwledgt)  of  the  Ante  of  the 
A  •   1«    ren«iwd,   will 

fti  i  v  alunUe  nummary  of 
iniportunt  muUcr  cormc-tted 
with  Li  10  stioieil  nmrrative. 
Evi'ii  the  wisU-lnstrurted 
clvrxymBii  may  Ninl  Ills 
memory  plt-^antly  refrsthsd 
by  tit*  .illii-lnns  la  tunny 
fart*,  nAdtrkr*  tatm  ne 
fo  :   jimv  lo't'ices 

ufMitbe  AtU  both  lnteteat> 

ing  iuiu  ueeiui  bu  iiib  peujnc.  ' 

JouawAL  o#  Education. 


young. 
The  Sunday  School  Teacher 


Miles.— The  Horse's  Foot,  and  How  to 

Keep  it  Sound.  Eighth  Edition ;  -with  an 
Appendix  on  Shoeing  in  general,  and  Hunters 
in  particular,  12  Plates  and  12  Woodcuts. 
By  W.  Miles,  Esq.    Imperial  8vo.  12s.  6d. 

%*  Two  Casts  or  Models  of  Off  Fore  Feet,  No.  1.  Shodjbr 
AU  Purposes,  No.  2,  Shod  with  Leather,  on  Mr.  Muss's  plan, 
may  be  had,  price  3s.  each. 

Miles,— A  Plain  Treatise  on  Hone-Shoeing. 

By  William  Miles,  Esq.  With  Pistes  and 
Woodcuts.     New  Edition.    Post  8vo.  2s. 

Miner's  History  of  the  Church  of  Christ. 

With  Additions  by  the  late  Rev.  Isaac 
Milneb,  D.D.,  F.R.S.  A  New  Edition, 
revised,  with  additional  Notes  by  the  Bey. 
T.  Grantham,  B.D.   4  vols.  8vo.  price  52s. 


James  Montgomery's  Poetical  Works: 

Collective  Edition ;  with  the  Author's  Auto- 
biographies! Prefaces,  complete  in  One 
Volume ;  with  Portrait  and  Vignette.  Square 
crown  8vo.  price  10s.  6d.  cloth;  morocco, 
21a. — Or,  in  4  vols.  fcp.  8vo.  with  Portrait, 
and  7  other  Plates,  price  14s. 

Moore.— The  Power  of  the  Soul  over  the 

Body,  considered  in  relation  to  Health  and 
Morals.  By  Gbobge  Moore,  M.D.  Fifth 
Edition.    Fcp.  8vo.  6s. 

Moore— Man  and  his  Motives.  By  George 
Moore,  M.D.    Third  Edition.  Fcp.  8vo.  6s. 

Moore.— The  Use  of  the  Body  in  relation  to  the 
Mind.  By  George  Mooee,  M.D.  Third 
Edition.    Fep.  8vo.  6s. 

Moore.— Memoirs,  Journal,  and  Corre- 
spondence of  Thomas  Moore.  Edited  by 
the  Bight  Hon.  Lobd  Johv  Russell,  M.F. 
With  Portraits  and  Vignette  Illustrations. 
8  vols,  post  8vo.  price  10s.  6cL  each. 

Thomas  Moore's  Poetical  Works :  Com- 
prising the  Author**  recent  Introductions 
and  Notes.  The  Traveller's  Edition,  com- 
plete in  One  Volume,  printed  in  Ruby  Type ; 
with  a  Portrait.  Crown  8vo.  12s.  6d.  cloth ; 
morocco  by  Hayday,  21s. — Also  the  Library 
Edition  complete  in  1  vol.  medium  8vo.  with 
Portrait  and  Vignette,  21s.  cloth ;  morocco 
by  Hayday,  42s. — And  the  First  collected 
Edition,  in  10  vols.  fcp.  8vo.  with  Portrait 
and  19  Plates,  price  86s. 

Moore.  —  Poetry    and   Pictures   from 

Thomas  Moore:  Selections  of  the  most 
popular  and  admired  of  Moore's  Poems, 
copiously  illustrated  with  highly-finished 
Wood  Engravings  from  original  Designs  by 
eminent  Artists.  Fcp.  4to.  price  21s.  cloth, 
gilt  edges ;  or  42s.  morocco  elegant  or 
antique  by  Hayday. 

Moore's  Epicurean.    New  Edition,  with 

the  Notes  from  the  colleotive  edition  of 
Moore's  Poetical  Works ;  and  a  Vignette  en- 
graved on  Wood  from  an  original  Design  by 
D.  Maclise,  RA.  16mo.  5s.  cloth;  or 
12s.  6d.  morocco  by  Hayday. 

Moore's  Songs,   Ballads,  and   Sacred 

Songs.  New  Edition,  printed  in  Ruby 
Type ;  with  the  Notes  from  the  collective 
edition  of  Moore's  Poetical  Works,  and  a 
Vignette  from  a  Design  by  T.  Creswick,  R  A. 
32mo.  2s.  6d  —An  Edition  in  16mo.  with 
Vignette  by  R.  Doyle,  price  6s. ;  or  12s.  6d. 
morocco  by  Hayday. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


16 


NEW  WOEKS  a*d  NEW  EDITIONS 


Moore's  Sacred  Songs,  the  Symphonies 

and  Accompaniments,  arranged  for  One  or 
more  Voices,  printed  with  the  Words.  Imp. 
8?o.  [Nearly  ready. 

Moore's   Lalla    Rookh:    An  Oriental 

Romance.  With  13  highly-finished  Steel 
Plates  from  Original  Designs  by  Corbould, 
Meadows,  and  Stephanoff,  engraved  under 
the  superintendence  of  the  late  Charles 
Heath.  New  Edition*  Square  crown  8ro. 
price  15s.  cloth  j  morocco,  28s. 

Moore's  Lalla  Kookh.  Hew  Edition,  printed 
in  Ruby  Type;  with  the  Preface  and 
Notes  from  the  collective  edition  of  Moore'* 
Poetical  Works,  and  a  Frontispiece  from  a 
Design  by  Kenny  Meadows.  S2mo.  2s.  6d. 
— An  Edition  in  16mo.  with  Vignette,  6b.  j 
or  12s.  6d.  morocco  by  Hayday. 

Moore's  Lalla  Rookh.   A  New  Edition, 

with  numerous  Illustrations  from  original 
Designs  by  John  Tbkkiel,  engraved  on 
Wood  by  the  Brothers  Dalziel.     Pep.  4to. 
[ In  preparation. 

Moore's  Irish  Melodies.  A  New  Edi- 
tion, illustrated  with  18  highly-finished 
Steel  Plates,  from  Original  Designs  by 
eminent  Artists.  Square  crown  8vo.  price 
21s.  cloth ;  or  31s.  6d.  handsomely  bound 
in  morocco. 

Moore's  Irish  Melodies,  printed  in  Ruby  Type ; 
with  the  Preface  and  Notes  from  the  col- 
lective edition  of  Moore* t  Poetical  Works,  the 
Advertisements  originally  prefixed,  and  a 
Portrait  of  the  Author.  32mo.  2s.  6d. — 
An  Edition  in  16mo.  with  Vignette,  5s.; 
or  12s.  6d.  morocco  by  Hayday. 

Moore's  Irish  Melodies.  Illustrated  by  B. 
Maclise,  R.A.  New  Edition;  with  161 
Designs,  and  the  whole  of  the  Letterpress 
engraved  on  Steel,  by  E.  P.  Becker.  Super- 
royal  8vo.  31s.  6<L  boards  ;  £2. 12s.  6d. 
morocco  by  Hayday. 

Moore's  Irish  Melodies,  the  Music  with 

the  Words;  the  Symphonies  and  Accom- 
paniments by  Sir  John  Stevenson,  Mus.  Doc. 
Complete  in  One  Volume,  small  music  size, 
convenient  and  legible  at  the  Pianoforte,  but 
more  portable  than  the  usual  form  of  mu- 
sical publications.  Imperial  8vo.  81s.  6d. 
cloth ;  or  42s.  half-bound  in  morocco. 

The  Harmonised  Airs   from  Moore's 

Irish  Melodies,  as  originally  arranged  for 
Two,  Three,  or  Four  Voices,  printed  with 
the  Words.  Imperial  8vo.  15s.  cloth;  or 
25s.  half-bound  in  morocco. 


Moore's  National  Melodies,  with  Um 

National  Airs  and  other  Songa,  now  £* 
collected.    By  Thomas  Moore.     The  U  j- 
for  Voice  and  Pianoforte,  printed  with  i 
Words.    Imperial  8vo.  31s.  6d.  cloth; 
42s.  half-bound  in  morocco. 


MorelL— Elements  of  Psychology:  Pr 

I.,  containing  the  Analysis  of  the  Inteflsotu. 
Powers.  By  J.  D.  Mobkxx,  MJL,  0&r. 
Her  Majesty's  Inspectors  of.  School*,  by 
8?o.  7s.  6dL 


Morning  Clouds.    Second  and  cheaps 

Edition,  revised  throughout,  and  printed  - 
a  more  convenient  form.  Fcp.  8ro.  pr*; 
5s.  cloth. 

Morton.— The  Resources  of  Estates:  1 

Treatise  on  the  Agricultural  Impreresx^: 
and  General  Management  of  Ltadai 
Property.  By  John  XiOckhabt  Mobtcj, 
Civu  and  Agricultural  Engineer;  Author 
of  Thirteen  Highland  and  Agrxcuitan. 
.  Society  Prize  Essays.  With  25  Illustrate 
in  Lithography.    Koyal  8vo.  31s.  6d. 

Moseley.— The  Mechanical  Principles  if 

Engineering  and  Architecture.  Bj  H. 
MoflBLXT,  M.A.,  F.R.S.,  Canon  of  Brisfcx. 
&c  Second  Edition,  enlarged;  with  a* 
xnerous  Corrections  and  Woodcuts.  Sto.  2-fe. 

Memoirs  and  Letters  of  the  late  Colons 

.Abmine  Mountain  Aide-de-Gunp  to  tb? 
Queen,  and  Adjutant- General  of  Her  Mi- 
jesty's  Forces  in  India.  Edited  by  M-> 
Mountaik.  Second  Edition,  revised ;  v:~ 
Portrait.    Fcp.  8vo.  price  6a. 

More.  — A  Critical  History  of  the  Lan- 
guage and  Literature  of  Ancient  Greece. 
By  William  Muss,  M.P.  of  Caldw&L 
Second  Edition.  Vols.  I.  to  I1X  8vo.  prwe 
86s. ;  Vol.  IV.  price  15s. ;  Vol.  V.  price  IS*. 

Murray's  Encyclopaedia  of  Geography 

comprising  a  complete  Description  of  tL* 
Earth :  Exhibiting  its  Relation  to  thf 
Heavenly  Bodies,  its  Physical  Structure,  tte 
Natural  History  of  each  -Country,  and  tk 
Industry,  Commerce,  Political  Institution 
and  Civil  and  Social  State  of  All  Natktf 
Second  Edition ;  with  82  Maps,  and  upwsrdi 
of  1,000  other  Woodcuts.    8vo.  price  60*. 

Murray.  —  French  Finance  and  fi- 
nanciers under  Louis  the  Fifteenth.  J>J 
Jahes  Mubbay.    8vo.  10s.  6d. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


published  by  LONGMAN,  BROWN,  abt>  CO. 


17 


ale.  —  The  Closing  Scene ;  or,  Chris- 

ianity  and  Infidelity  contrasted  in  the  Last 
lours  of  Remarkable  Persona.  By  the 
iev.  Ebskibb  Nbaxb,  M.A.  New  Editions. 
J  vols.  fop.  8to.  price  6s.  each. 

irmanby  (Lord).— A  Year  of  Revolu- 

ion.  From  a  Journal  kept  in  Paris  in  the 
Fear  1848.  By  the  Marquis  of  Nobmakby, 
£.G.    2  yols.  8to.  24s. 

ilvie.  — The  Master-Bonder's  Flan; 

>r,  the  Principles  of  Organic  Architecture 
is  indicated  in  the  Typical  Forms  of  Animals. 
3y  Geobge  Ogiltib,  M.D.,  Lecturer  on 
institutes  of  Medicine,  &c.,  Marischal  Col- 
ege  and  University,  Aberdeen.  Post  870. 
vith  72  Woodcuts,  price  6s.  6d. 

lacre.— The  Last  of  the  Old  Squires. 

4l  Sketch.  By  Cedbic  Oldacbb,  Esq.,  of 
fox  -  Normanbury,  sometime  of  Christ 
Church,  Oxon.    Crown  8to.  price  9s.  6d. 

born.  —  Qnedah;   or,   Stray  Leaves 

rom  a  Journal  in  Malayan  Waters.  By 
Captain  Shebabd  Osbobk,  R.N.,  C.B., 
Author  of  Stray  Leaves  from  an  Arctic  Jour' 
ialt  &c.  With  a  coloured  Chart  and  tinted 
illustrations.    Post  8vo.  price  10s.  6d. 

born.— The  Discovery  of  the  North- 
west Passage  by  H.M.S.  Investigator,  Cap- 
Am  R  M'Clubb,  1850-1854.  Edited  by 
Uaptain  Shebabd  Osbobk,  C.B.,  from  the 
Logs  and  Journals  of  Captain  B.  M'dure. 
Second  Edition,  revised ;  with  Additions  to 
:he  Chapter  on  the  Hybernation  of  Animals 
n  the  Arctic  Regions,  a  Geological  Paper 
?y  Sir  BoDBBlCK  I.  Mtochisok,  a  Portrait 
>f  Captain  M'Clure,  a  coloured  Chart  and 
inted  Illustrations.    8vo.  price  15s. 

ren.— Lectures  on  the  Comparative 

Lnatomy  and  Physiology  of  the  Invertebrate 
Inimab,  delivered  at  the  Royal  College  of 
Jurgeons.  By  Richabd  Owbb,  F.R.S., 
BCunterian  Professor  to  the  College.  Second 
Edition,  with  235  Woodcuts.    8vo.  21s. 

>fessor  Owen's  Lectures  on  the  Comparative 
inatomy  and  Physiology  of  the  Vertebrate 
inimals,  delivered  at  the  Royal  College  of 
Surgeons  in  1844  and  1846.  With  numerous 
Woodcuts.    Vol.  I.  8vo.  price  14s. 

amoirs  of  Admiral  Parry,  the  Arctic 

Navigator.  By  his  Son,  the  Rev.  E.  Pabbt, 
VIA.  of  Balliol  College,  Oxford ;  Domestio 
3haplairi  to  the  Lord  Bishop  of  London. 
Fifth  Edition ;  with  a  Portrait  and  coloured 
Dbart  of  the  North-West  Passage.  Fcp. 
*vo.  price  6s. 


Pattison.— The  Earth  and  the  Word; 

or,  Geology  for  Bible  Students.  By  S.  R. 
Pattison,  F.G.S.  Fcp.  8vo.  with  coloured 
Map,  8s.  6d. 

Dr.  Pereira's    Elements    of    Materia 

Medica  and  Therapeutics.  Third  Edition, 
enlarged  and  improved  from  the  Author's 
Materials,  by  A.  S.  Taylor,  M.D.,  and 
G.  O.  Rbbs,  M.D. :  With  numerous  Wood- 
outs.  Vol.  I.  8vo.  28s. ;  Vol.  II.  Pabt  I. 
21s.  1  Vol.  II.  Pabt  II.  26s. 

Dr.  Pereira's  Lectures  on  Polarised  light, 
together  with  a  Lecture  on  the  Microscope. 
2d  Edition,  enlarged  from  Materials  left  by 
the  Author,  by  the  Rev.  B.  Powell,  M.A., 
&c.    Fcp.  8vo.  with  Woodcuts,  7s. 

Perry.— The  Franks,  from  their  First 

Appearance  in  History  to  the  Death  of  King 
Pepin.  By  Waltbb  O.  Pbbby,  Barrister- 
at-Law,  Doctor  in  Philosophy  and  Master 
of  Arts  in  the  University  of  Gottingen. 
8vo.  price  12s.  6d. 

Peschel's  Elements  of  Physics.  Trans- 
lated from  the  German,  with  Notes,  by 
E.  Wbst.  With  Diagrams  and  Woodcuts. 
8  vols.  fcp.  8vo.  21s. 

Phillips's  Elementary  Introduction  to 

Mineralogy.  A  New  Edition,  with  extensive 
Alterations  and  Additions,  by  H.  J.  Brooke, 
F.R.S.,  F.G.S.  5  and  W.  H.  Millbb,  M.A., 
F.G.S.  With  numerous  Wood  Engravings. 
Post  8vo.  18s. 

Phillips.— A  Guide  to  Geology.  By  John 
Phillips,  M.A.,  F.R.S.,  F.G.S.,  Ac.  Fourth 
Edition,  corrected  to  the  Present  Time; 
with  4  Plates.    Fcp.  8vo.  5s. 

Phillips.— Figures  and  Descriptions  of  the 
Paleozoic  Fossils  of  Cornwall,  Devon,  and 
West  Somerset;  observed  in  the  course 
of  the  Ordnance  Geological  Survey  of  that 
District.  By  John  Phillips,  F.R.S.,  F.G.S., 
Ac.    8vo.  with  60  Plates,  price  9s. 

Piesse's  Art  of  Perfumery,  and  Methods 

of  Obtaining  the  Odours  of  Plants :  With 
Instructions  for  the  Manufacture  of  Perfumes 
for  the  Handkerchief  Scented  Powders, 
Odorous  Vinegars,  Dentifrices,  Pomatums, 
Cosm&iques,  Perfumed  Soap,  &c. ;  and  an 
Appendix  on  the  Colours  of  Flowers,  Arti- 
ficial Fruit  Essences,  Ac.  Second  Edition, 
revised  and  improved  j  with  46  Woodcuts. 
Crown  8vo.  8s.  6d. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


18 


NEW  WOMB  in)  HHW  EDITIONS 


Captain  Portloek's  Report  on  the  Geology 

of  the  County  of  Londonderry,  and  of  Parts 
of  Tyrone  and  Fermanagh,  examined  and 
described  under  the  Authority  of  the  Master- 
General  and  Board  of  Ordnance.  8vo.  with 
48  Plates,  price  24*. 

Powell.— Essays  on  the  Spirit  of  the 

Inductive  Philosophy,  the  Unity  of  Worlds, 
and  the  Philosophy  of  Creation.  By  the 
Bey.  Baden  Powell,  M-A-,F.R.S.,F.R.AJ3., 
F.G.S.,  Savilian  Professor  of  Geometry  in  the 
University  of  Oxford.  Second  Edition,  re- 
vised.  Crown  8vo.  with  Woodcuts,  12s.  6d. 

Christianity  without  Judaism :  A  Second  Series 
of  Essays  on  the  Unity  of  Worlds  and  of 
Nature.  By  the  Rev.  Baden  Powell,  M.A., 
&c.     Crown  8vo.  7s.  6d. 

Pycroft.  —  The  Collegian's'  Guide;  or, 

Recollections  of  College  Days  :  Setting  forth 
-  the  Advantages  and  Temptations  of  a  Uni- 
versity Education.   By  the  Rev.  J.  Ptcboet, 
B.A.     Second  Edition.    Fop.  8?o.  6s. 

Pyoroft's  Course  of  English  Reading,  adapted 
to  every  taste  and  capacity ;  or,  How  and 
What  to  Read :  Witn  Literary  Anecdotes. 
New  Edition.    Fcp.  8vo.  price  5s. 

Pycroft's  Cricket-Field;  or,  the  Science  and 
History  of  the  Game  of  Cricket.  Second 
Edition,  greatly  improved  j  with  Plates  and 
Woodcuts.    Fcp.  8vo.  price  5s. 

• 

Qnatrefages  (A.  De).  —  Rambles  of  a 

Naturalist  on  the  Coasts  of-  France,  Spain, 
and  Sicily.  By  A.  De  Qttatbepages, 
Member  of  the  Institute.  Translated  by 
E.  C.  Otte.    2  vols,  post  8vo.  I5s. 

Raikes  (C.)— Notes  on  the  Revolt  in  the 

North- Western  Provinces  of  India.  By 
Charles  Raikes,  Judge  of  the  Sadder 
Court,  and  late  Civil  Commissioner  with 
Sir  Colin  Campbell.    8vo.  7s.  6d. 

Raikes  (T.)— Portion  of  the  Journal  kept 

by  Thomas  Raikes,  Esq., from  1831  to  1847: 
Comprising  Reminiscences  of  Social  and 
Political  Life  in  London  and  Paris  during 
that  period.  N*w  Edition,  complete  in 
2  vols,  crown  8vo.  with  3  Portraits,  price 
12s.  cloth. 

Rarey.— A  Complete  Treatise  on  the 

Science  of  Handling,  Educating,  and  Taming 
all  Horses ;  with  a  full  and  detailed  Narra- 
tive of  his  Experience  and  Practice.  By 
John  S.  Rabbt,  of  Ohio,  U.S.  In  1  vol. 
with  numerous  Illustrations.  [Just  ready* 


Reade.-The  Poetical  Worts  of  Jsta 

Edmund  Reade.  New  Edition,  revised  sr  i 
corrected ;  with  Additional  Foetus.  4  vc~. 
fcp.  8vo.  price  20s. 

Dr.  Reeee's  Medical  Guide :  Comprise 

a  complete  Modem-  Dkpanaatorr,  as 
TH^Airt^l  Treatiseonthe4iatiii|niiahipgSTE> 
toms,  Causes,  Prevention,  Cure,  and  Psla- 
tion  of  the  Diseases  incident  to  tiie  Husn 
Frame.  Seventeenth  Edition,  corrected  mk 
enlarged  by  the  Author's  SoayPr.H  Rwr\ 
M.R.C.S^&c.    8vo.  12b. 

Rees.— Personal  Narrative  of  the  Siege 

of  Lucknow,  from  its  Commencement  to  fe 
Relief  by  Sir  Colin  Campbell.  BjLE 
Rees,  one  of  the  Surviving  Defender* 
Third  Edition,  with  Portrait  and  Plan.  P> 
8vo.9s.6d. 


Rich's  Illustrated   Companion  to  tk 

Latin  Dictionaryand  Greek  Lexicon :  Pars:- 

ing  a  Glossary  of  all  the  Words  represent^   | 
Visible  Objects  connected  with  the  AxL 
Manufactures,  and  Every-Day  Life  of  tfc    , 
Ancients.    With   about    2,000    Wooded 
from  the  Antique.    Post  8vo.  21s.  | 

Richardson.  —  Fourteen    Years'  Eipe-  I 

rience  of  Cold  Water :  Its  Uses  and  Abuse-, 
By  Captain  M.  Bjchabdson,  late  of  the 
4th  Light  Dragoons.  Post  8vo.  yrth 
Woodcuts,  price  6s. 

Horsemanship ;  or,  the  Art  of  Riding   | 

and  Managing  a  Horse,  adapted  to  the  Guid- 
ance of  Ladies  and  Gentleman  on  the  Road 
and  in  the  Field :  With  Instructions  fcr 
Breaking-in  Colts  and  Young  Horses.  By 
Captain  M.  Richabdsov,  late  of  the  4iL 
Light  Dragoons.  With  5  Plates,  Sonsrt 
crown  8vo.  14s. 

Household  Prayers  for  Four  Weeks: 

With  additional  Prayers  for  Special  Occa- 
sions. To  which  is  added  a  Course  of 
Scripture  Reading  for  Every  Day  in  the 
Year.  By  the  Rev.  J.  £.  Ridbxs,  1LA. 
Incumbent  of  St.  Philip's,  Leckhampton. 
Grown  Svo.  price  8s.  6d. 

Riddle's  Complete  Latin-English  and 

English-Latin  Dictionary,  for  the  use  of 
Colleges  and  Schools.  New  and  cheeper 
Edition,  revised  and  corrected.    8vo.  21*. 

Riddle's  Ixamond  Latin-EngMaa  Stationary. 
A  Guide  to  the  Meaning,  Quality;  and 
right  Accentuation  of  Latin  Qacaical  Words. 
Royal  82mo.  price  4b. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


pttblibhbd  bt  LONGMAN,  BBOWK,  un>  CO. 


19 


Middle's  Copious  and  Critical  Latin- 

English  Lexicon,  founded  on  the  German- 
latin  Dictionaries  of  Dr.  William  Freund. 
"8am  and  dumper  Edition.   Post  4to.  81a.  6d. 

raven's  Rose-Amateur's  Guide ;  contain- 
ing ample  Descriptions  of  all  the  fine  leading 
varieties  of  Roses,  regularly  classed  in  their 
respective  Families;  their  History  and 
Mode  of  Culture.  Sixth  Edition,  corrected 
and  improved.    Fcp.  8vo.  3a.  6d. 

Dr.  E.  Robinson's  Greek  and  English 

JLexicon  to  the  Greek  Testament.  A  New 
Edition,  revised  and  in  great  part  re- written. 
8vo.  price  18e. 

Mr.  Henry  Rogers's  Essays  selected  from 

Contributions  to  the  Edinburgh  Review. 
Second  and  cheaper  Edition,  with  Additions. 
3  vols.  fcp.  8vo.  21s. 

Dr.  Roget's  Thesaurus  of  English  Words 

and  Phrases  classified  and  arranged  so  as  to 
facilitate  the  Expression  of  Ideas  and  assist 
in  Literary  Composition.  Seventh  Edition, 
revised  and  improved.    Crown  8vo.  10s.  6d. 

Bonalda's    Fly-Fisher's    Entomology: 

With  coloured  Bepresentafions  of  the 
Natural  and  Artificial  Insect,  and  a  few  Ob- 
servations and  Instructions  on  Trout  and 
Grayling  Fishing.  Fifth  Edition,  thoroughly 
revised  by  an  Experienced  Fly-Fisher ;  with 
20  new  coloured  Plates.    8vo.  14s. 

Rowton's  Debater :  A  Series  of  complete 

Debates,  Outlines  of  Debates,  and  Questions 
for  Discussion;  with  ample  References  to  the 
best  Sources  of  Information.  New  Edition. 
Fcp.  8vo.  6s. 

Russell  (Dr.)  —  The  Life  of  Cardinal 

Mezzofanti :  With  an  Introductory  Memoir 
of  eminent  Linguist*,  Ancient  and  Modern. 
By  C.  W.  RusaBLL,  D.D.,  President  of  St. 
Patrick's  College,  Maynooth.  With  Portrait 
and  Facsimiles.    8ro.  12s. 

The  Saints  our  Example.  By  the  Author 

of  Letters  to  my  Unknown  Friend;  &e.  Fcp. 
8vo.  price  7s. 

Scherzer— Travels  in  the  Free  States'of 

Central  America :  Nicaragua,  Honduras, 
and  San  Salvador.  By  Dr.  Cabl  Sohxbzbr. 
With  a  coloured  Map.    2  vols,  post  8vo.  16s. 


w  This  it  a  work  which 

will  satisfy  all  who  lore 
lively  detail  of  tropical  ef- 
fects and  marvels,  and  are 
not  arerse  to  toucnes  of  hu- 
man romance  and  scientific 


adventure. ...  Dr.  Scber- 
ler's  is  undoubtedly  the  best 
work  on  Central  America 
since  the  appearance  of  Mr. 
Squfers*  lively  volumes." 

A.TBMHXVU. 


ScfaimmelPenninok  (Mrs.)— Life  of  Mary 

Anne  SehimmelPenninck,  Author  of  Select 
Memoir*  of  Port  Royal,  and  other  Works. 
Edited  by  her  Belation,  Chbistiaba  C. 
Haotih.  2  vols,  post  8vo.  with  Portrait, 
price  15s. 

Dr.L.  Schmitz's  School  History  of  Greece, 

from  the  Earliest  Times  to  the  Taking  of 
Corinth  hy  the  Romans,  B.C.  146,  mainly 
based  on  Biahon  ThirlwalTs  History  of 
Greece.  Fifth  Edition,  with  Nine  new  Sup- 
plementary Chapters  on  the  Civilisation, 
Religion,  Literature,  and  Arts  of  the  An- 
cient Greeks,  contributed  by  Chbxbtopheb 
Knight  Watson,  M.A.,  Trin.  Coll.  Camb. ; 
and  illustrated  with  a  Map  of  Athens  and  137 
Woodcuts,  designed  from  the  Antique  by 
G.  Soharf,  jun.,  B\S  A.     12mo.  7s.  6d. 


Scoflfern  (Dr.) —Projectile  Weapons  of 

War  and  Explosive  Compounds.  By  J. 
Scoffbbn,  MB.  Lond.,  late  Professor  of 
Chemistry  in  the  Aldersgate  College  of 
Medicine.  Third  Edition,  corrected  to  the 
present  time.  Post  8vo.  with  Woodcuts, 
price  8s.  6d. 

Scrivener's  History  of  the  Iron  Trade, 

from  the  Earnest  Records  to  the  Present 
Period.  New  Edition,  corrected,  8vo. 
price  10s.  6d. 

Sir  Edward  Seaward's  Narrative  of  his 

Shipwreck,  and  consequent  Discovery  of 
certain  Iakncb  in  tie  Caribbean  Sea. 
Third  Edition.  2  vols,  post  8vo.  21s.— An 
Abbidgxent,  in  16mo,  price  2s.6oL 

The  Sermon  in  the  Mount.   Printed  by 

C.  Whittingham,  uniformly  with  the  Thumb 
Bible ;  bound  and  clasped.    64mo.  Is.  6d. 


Bowdler's  Family  Shakspeare :  In  which 

nothing  is  added  to  the  Original  Text ;  but 
those  words  and  expressions  are  omitted 
which  cannot  with  propriety  be  read  aloud. 
Illustrated  with  Thirtyeix  Vignettes  en- 
graved on  Wood  from  original  Designs  by 


e.  sookx,b.a. 
a.  cooks, 

H.  HOWARD,  S JL. 

h.  sureinov, 

B.B1UXU,BjU 


T.  BTOTttAiD,  B~L. 
H.  THOMBOV,  KU. 
B.  WB3TALL,  B.A. 
X.  WOKDVOKDX,  B.J 


New  Edition,  printed  in  a  more  convenient 
form.  6  vols.  fcp.  8vo.  price  80s.  cloth; 
separately,  5s.  each. 

%*  The  Ijbbabt  Edetiois  with  the  same 
Illustrations,  in  One  Volume,  medium  8vo. 
price  21s.  cloth. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


20 


NEW  WORKS  and  NEW  EDITIONS 


Sewell  (Miss).— New  and  cheaper  Col- 
lected Edition  of  the  Tales  and  Stories  of 
the  Author  of  Amy  Herbert.  Complete  in 
9  toIs.  crown  8?o.  price  $1.  10b.  cloth  j  or 
each  work,  comprised  in  a  single  volume, 
may  be  had  separately  as  follows  : — 

AMY  HERBERT    2s.  6d. 

GERTRUDE    2s.  6d. 

Tne  EARL'S  DAUGHTER 2s.  6d. 

The  EXPERIENCE  of  LIFE 2s.  6d. 

CLEVE  HALL  3s.  6d. 

IVORS ;  or,  the  TWO  COUSINS  8s.  6d. 

KATHARINE  ASHTON 3s.  6d. 

MARGARET  PERCIVAL  6s.  Od. 

LANETON  PARSONAGE  4s.  6d. 


14 fliidi  ami pura  aims  i.nr- 
liftrinMi  of  linn™*',  i*nd 
sobriety  of  Ju»b;uiiMntt  :ir« 
the  quaUltei  which  g\m 
weight  And  raluc  to  Uiis 
wTlt«r*#  Intellectual  endow- 
ment*, wkk  h  aXom  fur  o>n- 
M-kruU*  ddtatauSSl,  and 
wUlch  CQTiFtUuEa  her  a  {*.■.: iu- 
liarlj  nafs  and  rmttwortby 

guide  for  young  tii^ni* 

Tlie  rAttrvcitrhtics  pf  the 
isjmli]  i^furt*  us  art*  practical 
rt-UgUHis  Mf-dL*u]  ibue,  rigid 


MlMraininfc,  carefully  culti- 
vated habit*  of  thought  and 
observation,  and  habitual 
■elf-control.  No  writer  ghree 
more  the  conTiction  of  writ- 
ing  from  experience;  the 
reader,  judging  from  the 
works  alone,  ia  persuaded  of 
this;  it  gives,  them  their 
power ;  we  instinctively 
know  that  the  practical 
teaching  in  them  has  been 
worked  out,  and  found  to  be 
true.'* 


Chbistujt  BSKXirBXAirCZB, 

By  the  tame  Author y  New  Edition*, 

Ursula :  A  Tale  of  English  Country  Life. 

2  yols.  fcp.  8vo.  price  12s.  cloth. 

Readings  for  Every  Day  in  Lent:  Com- 

Siled  from  the  Writings  of  Bishop  Jsbeicy 
aylob.    Fcp.  8vo.  price  6b. 

Readings  for  a  Month  preparatory  to 

Confirmation :  Compiled  from  the  Works  of 
Writers  of  the  Early  and  of  the  English 
Church.    Fcp.  8to.  price  4s. 


Sharp's  New  British  Gazetteer,  or  Topo- 
graphical Dictionary  of  the  British  Islands 
and  Narrow  Seas :  Comprising  concise  De- 
scriptions of  about  Sixty  Thousand  Places, 
Seats,  Natural  Features,  and  Objects  of  Note, 
founded  on  the  best  authorities.  2  vols. 
8to.  price  £2. 16s. 

Short  Whist ;  its  Rise,  Progress,  and 

Laws :  With  Observations  to  make  any  one  a 
Whist-Player.  Containing  also  the  Laws  of 
Piquet,  Cassino,  Ecarte\  Cribbage,  Back- 
gammon. By  Major  A.  New  Edition  ;  to. 
which  are  added,  Precepts  for  Tyros,  by 
Mrs.  B.    Fcp.  8vo.  8s. 

Sinclair.  —  The  Journey  of  Life.  By 
Cathbbinb  Sinclair,  Author  of  The  Butt- 
nest  of  Life.     New  Edition.    Fcp.8vo.  6s. 


Sir  Roger  De  Coverley.  From  the  Spec- 
tator. With  Notes  and  Illustrations,  by 
W.  Henby  Wills  ;  and  12  Wood  Engnr 
ings  from  Designs  by  F.  Tayuer.  Second 
and  cheaper  Edition.  Crown  8vo.  10s.  6d_; 
or  21s.  in  morocco  by  Hayday. — An  Edite 
without  Woodcuts,  in  16mo.  price  Is. 


The  Sketches :  Three  Tales.    By  the 

Authors  of  Amy  Herbert,  The  Old  Ur!\ 
Home,  and  Hawkttone.  Third  Edition  ;  with 
6  Illustrations.     Fcp.  8to.  price  4s.  6<L 

Smee's  Elements  of  Electro-Metallurgy. 

Third  Edition,  revised,  corrected,  and  con- 
siderably enlarged ;  with  Electrotypes  sxi 
numerous  Woodcuts.    Post  8vo.  10s.  6d. 

Smith  (G.)  —  History  of  Wealeyan  Me- 
thodism. By  George  Smith,  FA-S., 
Member  of  the  Royal  Asiatic  Society,  &. 
Vol.  I.  WetUy  and  hit  Times;  and*  Vol 
II.  The  Middle  Age  of  Methodism,  from  tbe 
Death  of  Wesley  in  1791  to  the  Confer- 
ence of  1816.  Crown  8to.  price  10s.  61 
each  volume. 

Smith  (G.  V.)— The  Prophecies  relating 

to  Nineveh  and  the  Assyrians.  Translated 
from  the  Hebrew,  with  Historical  Intro- 
ductions and  Notes,  exhibiting  the  principal 
Results  of  the  recent  Discoveries.  Br 
Gh  Vance  Smith,  B.A.    Post  8vo.  10s.  &L 


Smith  (J.)  —The  Voyage  and  Shipwreck 

of  St.  Paul :  With  Dissertations  on  the  life 
and  Writings  of  St.  Luke,  and  the  Ships  and 
Navigation  of  the  Ancients.  By  Janes 
Smith,  of  Jordanhill,  Esq.,  FJ£J3.  Srand 
Edition ;  with  Charts,  Views,  and  Wood- 
cuts.   Crown  8vo.  8e.  6d. 


A  Memoir  of  the  Rev.  Sydney  Smith 

By  his  Daughter,  Lady  Holland.  With 
a  Selection  from  his  Letters,  edited  by 
Mbs.  Austin.  New  Edition.  2  vols.  8vo.  28s. 

The  Rev.  Sydney  Smith's  Miscellaneous 

Works  :  Including  his  Contributions  to  lie 
Edinburgh  Review.    Three  Editions : — 

1.  A  Library  Edition  (the  Fomrth),  in  3 
vols.  8vo.  with  Portrait,  86s. 

2.  Complete  in  One  Volume,  with  Portrait 
and  Vignette*.  Square  crown  8*o.  price 
21s.  cloth ;  or  30s.  bound  in  calf. 

8.  Another  New  Edition,  in  3  vols.  fcp. 
8vo.  price  21s. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


published  by  LONGMAN,  BROWN,  axd  CO. 


21 


The  Rev.  Sydney  Smith's  Elementary 

Sketches  of  Moral  Philosophy,  delivered  at 
the  Royal  Institution  in  the  Yean  1804, 
1805,  and  1806.  Third  Edition.  Fep.8ro.7s. 

Snow.— Two  Years'  Cruise  off  Tierra 

del  Fuego,  the  Falkland  Islands,  Patagonia, 
and  the  River  Plate :  A  Narrative  of  Life 
in  the  Southern  Seas.  By  W.  Pabkbb 
Snow,  late  Commander  of  the  Mission 
Yacht  Alien  Gardiner;  Author  of  "Voyage 
of  the  Prince  Albert  in  Search  of  Sir  John 
Franklin."  With  8  coloured  Charts  and  6 
tinted  Illustrations.    2  vols,  post  8vo.  24s. 

Robert  Southey's   Complete    Poetical 

Works ;  containing  all  the  Author's  last  In- 
troductions and  Notes.  The  Library  Edi- 
tion, complete  in  One  Volume,  with  Por- 
trait and  Vignette.  Medium  8vo.  price  21s. 
cloth ;  42s.  bound  in  morocco.  —  Also,  the 
First  collected  Edition,  in  10  rols.  fcp.  8vo. 
with  Portrait  and  19  Vignettes,  price  85s. 

The  life  and  Correspondence  of  the  lato  Robert 
Souther.  Edited  by  his  Son,  the  Rer. 
C.  C.  Sottthey,  M.A.,  Vicar  of  Ardleigh. 
With  Portraits  and  Landscape  Illustra- 
tions.   6  vols,  post  8vo.  price  63s. 

Southey's   Doctor,   complete    in    One 

Volume.  Edited  by  the  Rev.  J.  W.  Wabtbb, 
B.D.  With  Portrait,  Vignette,  Bust,  and 
coloured  Plate.    Square  crown  8vo.  21s. 

Southey's  Life  of  Wesley ;  and  Rise  and 

.Progress  of  Methodism.  Fourth  and  cheaper 
Edition,  with  Notes  and  Additions.  Edited 
by  the  Author's  Son,  the  Rev.  C.  C. 
Sottthey,  M.A.     2  Tola,  crown  8vo.  12s. 

Spencer.— Essays:  Scientific,  Political, 

and  Speculative.  By  Herbert  Spencbb, 
Author  of  Social  Statics.  Beprinted  chiefly 
from  Quarterly  Reviews.  8vo.  price  12s.cloth. 

Spencer.-The  Principles  of  Psychology.  By 
Hbbbbbt  Spencer,  Author  of  Social  Statics. 
8vo.  price  16s.  cloth. 

Stephen.— Lectures  on  the  History  of 

France.  By  the  Right  Hon.  Sir  James 
STE?HS*,K.C.B.,LL.D.,Professor  of  Modern 
History  in  the  University  of  Cambridge. 
Third  Edition.    2  vols.  8vo.  price  24s. 

Stephen.— Essays  in  Ecclesiastical  Bio- 
graphy ;  from  the  Edinburgh  Review.  By 
theRight  Hon.  Sir  Jakes  Stephen,  K.C.B., 
LL.D.,  Professor  of  Modern  History  in 
the  University  of  Cambridge.  Third  Edi- 
tion.   2  vols.  8vo.  24s. 


Stonehenge.— The  Dog  in  Health  and 

Disease  t  Comprising  the  various  Modes  of 
Breaking  and  Using  him.  for  Hunting, 
Coursing,  Shooting,  Ac. ;  and  including  the 
Points  or  Characteristics  of  Toy  Dogs.  By 
SxotfBHiNGB.  8vo.  with  numerous  Illus- 
trations. [In  the  press. 

Stonehenge.— The  Greyhound :  Being  a 

Treatise  on  the  Art  of  Breeding,  Rearing, 
and  Training  Greyhounds  for  Public  Run- 
ning ;  their  Diseases  and  Treatment :  Con- 
taining also  Boles  for  the  Management  of 
Coursing  Meetings,  and  for  the  Decision  of 
Courses.  By  Stonehenge.  With  Frontis- 
piece and  Woodcuts.  Square  crown  8vo. 
price  21s.  half-bound. 

Stow. —  The  Training  System,  Moral 

Training  School,  and  Normal  Seminary  for 

Sreparing  Schoolmasters  and  Governesses. 
ly  Dayid  Stow,  Esq.,  Honorary  Secretary 
to  the  Glasgow  Normal  Free  Seminary. 
Tenth  Edition ;  with  Plates  and  Woodcuts. 
Post  8vo.  price  6s. 

Strickland.  —  Lives  of  the  Queens  of 

England.  By  Agnes  Strickland.  Dedi- 
cated, by  express  permission,  to  Her  Ma- 
jesty. Embellished  with  Portraits  of  every 
Queen,  engraved  from  the  most  authentic 
sources.  Complete  in  8  vols,  post  8vo.  price 
7s.  6d.  each.  —  Any  Volume  may  be  had 
separately  to  complete  Sets. 

Memoirs  of  Rear-Admiral  Sir  William 

Svmonds,  Knt,  C.B.,  F.R.S.,  Surveyor  of 
the  Navy,  from  1882  to  1847 :  With  Cor- 
respondence  and  other  Papers  relative  to 
the  Ships  and  Vessels  constructed  upon  his 
Lines,  as  directed  to  be  published  under  his 
Will.  Edited  by  James  A.  Shabp.  With 
Sections  and  Woodcuts.    8vo.  price  21s. 

T§ylor.— Loyola:  and  Jesuitism  in  its 
Rudiments.  By  Isaac  Taylob.  Post  8vo 
with  Medallion,  10s.  6d. 

Taylor.— Wesley  and  Methodism.  By 
Isaac  Taylob.    Post  8vo.  Portrait,  10s.  6d. 

Thacker's  Courser's  Annual  Remem- 
brancer and  Stud-Book :  Being  an  Alpha- 
betical Return  of  the  Running  at  all  the 
Public  Coursing  Clubs  in  England,  Ireland, 
and  Scotland,  for  the  Season  1857-58 ;  with 
the  Pedigrees  (as  far  as  received)  of  the 
Dogs.  By  Robbbt  Abbah  Welsh,  Liver- 
pool.   8vo.  21s. 

•##  Published  annually  in  October. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


22 


NEW  WORKS  in  NEW  EDITIONS 


COMPLETION 


THE  TRAVELLERS    LIBRARY. 


Summary  of  the  Content*  of  the  TRAVELLER'S  LIBRARY,  now  complete  i*  102 
Parts,  price  One  Shifting  each,  or  in  50  Volumes,  price  2s.  6d.  each  in  dofJk.— 
To  be  had  also,  in  compete  Sets  only,  at  Five-  Guineas  per  Set,  bound  in  cloth, 
lettered,  in  25  Volumes,  classified  as  follows : — 


VOYAGES  AND  TRAVELS. 


IN  EUROPE. 

A  CONTINENTAL  TOCR  „ , by  J.  BARROW. 

ARCTIC  VOYAGES  AND  1  F   mayNB. 

DIS<T0V  ERIES  \  B*  r' ,   „i„Z* 

RUITTANY  AND  THE  H1HLE BY  I.  HOPE. 

BRITTANY  AND  THE  CHASE  ...  .by. L  HOPE. 
CORSICA  rtF.  GREGOROVIUS. 

°53aS&S8A  N^E.S.°.1?}  ■••• ««."»««. 

ICELAND ....  by  P.  MILES. 

NORWAY,  A  RESIDENCE  IN .u'S&LAXNO, 

NORWAY,  RAMBLES  IN  .  .  KT  T.  FORESTER. 
RITS MA  . . . ,  pt  nt ft  MAJtg II 8  DE  CU8TINE. 
RUSSIA  AND  TURKEY  ..btJ.  B.  M'CULLOCH. 

ST,  PETERSRUHG PiM.  JBRRMANN. 

THE  RUSSIANS  OF  THE  SOUTH,  BY  S.  BROOKS. 

a»?rNTAiN#ND   8WlBS}    "B-^RGUSON. 

MONT  HLANC,  ASCENT  OF BY  J.  AULDJO. 

S  WTTHE  ALPfl  **T™}  *T  W*  ™*  TSCHUDL 


JN 

VISIT  TO  THE  VAUDOIST 
OF  PIEDMONT    . .......  J* 


BY  E.  BAINES. 


IN  ASIA. 

CHINA  AND  THIBET BTTaABBE'HUC. 

STRIA  AND  PALESTINE "EOTHKK." 

THE  PHILIPPINE  ISLANDS,  by  P.  QIRONIERE. 

IN  AFRICA. 

AFRICAN  WANDERINGS nM.  WKRNR. 

MOROCCO by  X.  DURREEU. 

NIGER  EXPLORATION ..ixT.  J.  HUTCHINSON. 
THE  ZULUS  OF  NATAL by  G.H.  MASON. 

IN  AMERICA. 

BRAZIL BY  E.  WILBERFORCE. 

CANADA by  A.  M.  JAMESON. 

CUBA BYW.H.HUBIJH7T. 

NORTH  AMERICAN  WILDS  ....  byC.LANXAN. 

IN  AUSTRALIA. 
AUSTRALIAN  COLONIES by  W.  HUGHES. 

ROUND  THE  WORLD. 

A  LADY'S  VOYAGE by  IDA  PFEIFFER. 


HISTORY  AND  BIOGRAPHY. 


MEMOIR   OF  THE  DUKE    OF  WELLINGTON. 
THE  LIFE  OF  MARSHAL  1  by  the  REV.  T.  0. 

TURENNE J       COCKAYNE. 

SCHAMYL  ....  BY  BODEN8TEDT  xs»  WAGNER. 
FERDINAND  I.  AND  MAXIMI-  1 

LIAN  II ) 

FRANCIS  ARAGCS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY. 
THOMAS  HOLCROFTS  MEMOIRS. 


by    RANKE. 


CHESTERFIELD  A  SELWYN,  by  A.  HAYWARD. 
8WIFT  AND  RICHARDSON,  by  LORDJEFFREY. 
DEFOE  AND  CHURCHILL  ....  by  J.  FORSTER. 
ANECDOTES  OF  DR.  JOHNSON,  by  MRS.  PIOZZL 
TURKEY  AND  CHRISTENDOM. 
LEIPSIC  CAMPAIGN,  by  m  REV.  Q.  R.  QLBIO. 
AN  E88AY  ON  THE  LIFE  AND)  by  HENRY 
GENIUS  OF  THOMAS  FULLER/     ROGERS. 


ESSAYS  BY  LORD  MACAU  LAY. 


WARREN  HASTINGS. 

LORD  CLrVE. 

WILLIAM  PITT. 

THE  EARL  OF  CHATHAM. 

RANKE'S  HISTORY  OF  THE  POPE8. 

GLADSTONE  ON  CHURCH  AND  STATE. 

ADDISON'S  LIFE  AND  WRITINGS. 

HORACE  WALPOLB. 

LORD  BACON. 


LORD  BYRON. 

COMIC  DRAMATISTS  OF  THE  RESTORATION. 
FREDERIC  THE  GREAT. 
HALLAM'S  CONSTITUTIONAL  HISTORY. 
CROKER'S  EDITION  OF  BOBWEXL*8  LIFE  OF 
JOHNSON. 

LORD  MACAULAVS  SPEECHES  ON  PARLIA- 
MENTARY REFORM. 


THE  LOVE  STORY,  MOM  SOUTHEVS  DOCTOR. 
SIR  ROGER  DE  COVERLET. . . .  }  s/Jg$J^. 
MEMOIRS  OF  A  MAITRE-D'ARMEB,  BY  DUMAS. 
°OTBSkbi3  t  } «  E.SOUVESTRE. 


WORKS  OF  FICTION. 


AN  ATTIC  PHTLOSO-  \  --  «  gnnvKKTRE 

PHER  IN  PARIS  . ._/ BT  "•  B«u VJrfJTius. 

SIR  EDWARD  SEAWARD'S  NARRATIVE  OF 
HIS  SHIPWRECK. 


NATURAL  HISTORY,  &c. 

NATURAL  HISTORY  OF  1  ^  tv»    t     ttkmp      I  ELECTRIC  TELBGRAPH.^bjDR.  G^VILSON. 

CREATION^  i  **  DR*  L#  KEMP<     I  OUR  COAL-FIELDS  AND  OUR  COAL-PITS, 

INDICATIONS  OF  iNSTINCT,  BY  DR.  L.  KEMP.     |  CORNWALL,  ITS  MINES,  MINERS.  Ac. 


MISCELLANEOUS  WQRKS. 


LECTURES  AND  ADDRESSES  {"JJgu^L  ^ 
SELECTIONS  FROM  SYDNEY  SMITH'S 

WRITINGS.  4   «m»»^ 

PRINTING BY  A.  STARK. 


RAILWAY   MORALS  AND 

RAILWAY  POLICY 

MORMONISM ..  by  THE  REV 
LONDON    BYJ.R. 


*>}..BY 
BV.W.X. 


H.  SPENCER. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


PTTBLIBHID  BY  LONGMAN,  BBOWN,  AJTD  CO. 


ThirhrBOL— The  History  of  Greece.  By 
the  Sight  Bey.  the  Loan  Bishop  of  St. 
David's  (the  Be*.  Cormop  ThirlwaH).  An 
improved  Library  Edition ;  with  Haps.  8 
vols.  8vo.  price  £8.— An  Edition  in  8  vols, 
fcp.  8to.  with  Vignette  Titles,  prioe  28s. 

Thomson's  Seasons.   Edited  by  Bolton 

Cornet,  Esq.  Illustrated  with  77  fine 
Wood  Engravings  from  Designs  by  Mem- 
bers of  the  Etching  Club.  Square  crown  8yo. 
21b.  doth  j  or  86a.  bound  in  morocco. 

Thomson  (the  Rev.  Dr.) —An  Outline  of 

the  necessary  Laws  of  Thought :  A  Treatise 
on  Pure  and  Applied  Logic.  By  Willlajc 
Thomson,  D.D.,  Provost  of  Queen's  College, 
Oxford.    4th  Edition.    Fcp.  8vo.  7s.  6d. 

Thomson's  Tables  of  Interest,  at  Three, 

Four,  Eour-and-a-Half,  and  Five  per  Cent., 
from  One  Pound  to  Ten  Thousand,  and  from 
1  to  365  Days,  in  a  regular  progression  of 
single  Days ;  with  Interest  at  all  the  above 
Bates,  from  One  to  Twelve  Months,  and 
from  One  to  Ten  Tears.  Also,  numerous 
other  Tables  of  Exchanges,  Time,  and  Dis- 
counts.   New  Edition.    12mo.  price  8s. 

The  Thumb  Bible;  or,  Verbum  Sempi- 

ternum.  By  J.  Taylob.  Being  an  Epi- 
tome of  the  Old  and  New  Testaments  in 
English  Terse.  Beprinted  from  the  Edition 
of  1698  5  bound  and  clasped.   64mo.  Is.  6d. 

Tighe  and  Davis.— Annals  of  Windsor; 

Being,  a  History  of  the  Castle  and  Town : 
With  some  Account  of  Eton  and  Places  ad- 
jacent. By  B.  B.  Ti6HX,Esq.;  and  J.  E. 
Davis,  Esq.,  Baxrister-at-Law.  With  nu- 
merous Illustrations.  2  vols,  royal  8vo. 
price  £4.  4s. 

Tooke.— History  of  Prices,  and  of  the 

State  of  the  Circulation,  during  the  Nine 
Years  from  1648  to  1866  inclusive.  Form- 
ing Vols.  V.  and  VI.  of  Tooke's  Butory  of 
Price*  from  1792  to  the  Present  Jisw;  and 
comprising  a  copious  Index  to  the  whole  of 
the  Six  Volumes.  By  Thomas  Tooxe, 
FJ3LS.  and  William  Nbwmaboh.  2  vols. 
8ro.  price  62s.  6d. 

Townssnd.— ModeraState  Trials  revised 

and  illustrated  with  Essays  and  Notes.  By 
W.  0.  Townbbkd,  Esq.,  M.A-,  Q.O.  2  vols. 
8?o.  pries  90s. 

Trollope.— Barchester  Towers :  A  Novel. 

By  A5TH0WY  Trollops.    New  and  cheaper 
Edition,  complete  in  One  Volume.     Crown 
8to.  price  6s.  cloth. 
Trollopc-Th*  Warden.  By  Anthony  Trollope. 
Post  8to.  10s.  6d. 


Sharon  Turner's  Saered  History  of  the 

World,  attempted  to  be  Philosophically 
considered,  in  a  Series  of  Letters  to  a  Son. 
New  Edition,  edited  by  the  Bev.  S.  Tubjteb. 
8  vola.  post  8vo.  prioe  81s.  6d. 

Sharon  Turner's  History  of  England 

during  the  Middle  Ages:  Comprising  the 
Beigns  from  the  Norman  Conquest  to  the 
Accession  of  Henry  VIII.  Fifth  Edition, 
revised  by  the  Bev.  S.  Tubxbb.  4  vols. 
8vo.  price  60s. 

Sharon  Turner's  History  of  the  Anglo- 
Saxons,  from  the  Earliest  Period  to  the 
Norman  Conquest.  Seventh  Edition,  revised 
by  the  Bet.  S.  Tttbbbb.    8  vols.  8vo.  86s. 

Dr.  Turton's  Manual  of  the  Land  and 

Fresh-Water  Shells  of  Great  Britain :  With 
Figures  of  each  of  the  kinds.  New  Edition, 
with  Additions,  by  Dr.  J.  E.  Gray,  F.B.S., 
Ac.,  Keeper  of  the  Zoological  Collection  in 
the  British  Museum.  Crown  8vo.  with  12 
coloured  Plates,  price  16s.  cloth. 

Dr.  Ure's  Dictionary  of  Arts,  Manufac- 
tures, and  Mines :  Containing  a  clear  Expo- 
sition of  .their  Principles  .and  Practice. 
Fourth  Edition,  much  enlarged ;  most  of 
the  Articles  being  entirely  re-written,  and 
many  new  Articles  added.  With  nearly 
1,600  Woodcuts.    2  vols.  8vo.  price  60s. 

Uwins.— Memoir  of  Thomas  Uwins,lLA. 

By  Mrs.  Uwiks.  With  Letters  to  his 
Brothers  during  seven  years  spent  in  Italy ; 
and  Correspondence  with  the  late  Sir  Thomas 
Lawrence,  Sir  C.  L.  Eastlake,  Alfred  Chalon, 
B.  A.  and  other  distinguished  persons.  2  vols, 
post  8vo.  {Just  ready. 

Van  Der  Hoeven's  Handbook  of  Zoology. 

Translated  from  the  Second  Dutch  Edition 
by  the  Bev.  William  Olabx,  M.D.,F.B&, 
&o.,  late  Fellow  of  Trinity  College,  and  Pro- 
fessor of  Anatomy  in  the  University  of 
Cambridge;  with  additional  References  fur- 
nished by  the  Author.  2  vols.  8vo.  with 
24  Plates  of  Figures,  price  60s.  cloth ;  or 
separately,  Vol.  I.  Invertebrate  80s.  and 
Vol.  II.  Fertebrata,  80s. 

description  of  the  mmlliee 
and  gentr*.  and  the  princi- 
pal •pedes.  A  series  of 
beautifully  executed  plate* 
at  the  end  carries  the  eye 
along  the  ascending  scale  of 
liifhy  the  delineation  of 
some  of  its  chief  organs. 
ProfessorClark  has  supplied 
a  great  want  by  thus  placing 
a  complete  and  careful  ma- 
nual, bearing  the  warrant  of 
the  highest  names  and  the 
latest  science,  within  the 
reach  of  the  private  stu- 
dent." OCA! 


"  Naturalists  will  beriad 
to  learn  that  ProfessorClark 
has  completed  his  transla- 
tion of  van  Der  Hoeven's 
Handbook  of  Zoology  by  the 
publication  of  the  second 
Wilms,  comprising  the  Ver- 
tebrate Animals.  The  ar- 
rangement is  the  same  as 
that  which  we  described  In 
the  former  volume.  _The 
four  classes  of  Fishes, 


lists,  Birds,  and  Hi 

are  introduced  by  short  ge- 
neral prefaces,  which  are 
followed  by  a  brief  scientific 

Vehse.— Memoirs  of  the  Court,  Aristo- 
cracy, and  Diplomacy  of  Austria.  ByDr.B. 
Vshbs.  Translated  from  the  German  by 
Fkaitz  Dxhxlbb.   2  vols,  post  8vo.  21s. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


24 


NBW  WORKS  fububhsb  by  LONGMAN  jjto  GO. 


Von  Tempsky.—  Mitla;  or,  Incidents 

and  Personal  Adventures  on  a  Journey  in 
Mexico,  Guatemala,  and  Salvador,  in  the 
Yean  1853  to  1856 :  With  Observations  on 
the  Modes  of  life  in  those  Countries.  By 
G.  F.  Von  Tbmpsky.  With  coloured  Route 
Map,  Illustrations  in  Chromolithography, 
and  Engravings  on  Wood.    8ro.  price  18s. 

"  A  remarkably-well  writ- 
ten an4  amusing  account  of 


three  yean'  travel  in  Spa- 
nish America.  The  author 
Is  a  capital  story-teller,  had 
a  copious  budget  to  draw 


an  unlimited  supply  of  en- 
thusiasm, an  observant  eye, 
and  a  disposition  to  make 
the  best  of  everything  that 
is  under  its  notice." 
Clbbic.il  Joirwr  al. 


from,  pours  forth  hts  anec- 
dotes In  profusion,  and  has 
given  the  public  as  enter- 
taining a  narrative  as  we 
have  lately  seen." 

GaBDBJTBBS'  CHBOBICX.B. 

Wade.  —  England's  Greatness :  Its  Rise 

and  Progress  in  Government,  Laws,  Religion, 
and  Social  Life;  Agriculture,  Commerce, 
and  Manufactures ;  Science,  Literature,  and 
the  Arts,  from  the  Earliest  Period  to  the 
Peace  of  Paris.  By  John  Wade,  Author  of 
the  Cabinet  Lawyer,  Ac.    Post  8vo.  10s.  6d. 

Wanderings  in  the  Land  of  Ham.   By  a 

Dattohtbb  of  Japhbt.    Post  8vo.  8s.  6d. 

"  The  vigour  and  freshness 
which  characterise  her  ver- 
sion of  the  oft-told  tale  are 
such  as  might  be  expected 
from  a  lady  who  has  dome 
the  Nile  at  the  age  of  seven- 
teen, with  exuberant  spirits, 

Waterton.— Essays  on  Natural  History, 

chiefly  Ornithology.  By  0.  Watbbton,  Esq. 
With  an  Autobiography  of  the  Author,  and 
Views  ef  Walton  Hall.  New  and  cheaper 
Edition.    2  vols.  fop.  8vo.  price  10s. 

WaterUn's  Essays  on  Natural  History.  Third 
Series ;  with  a  Continuation  of  the  Auto- 
biography, and  a  Portrait  of  the  Author. 
Second  Edition,    Fop,  8vo.  price  6s. 

Webster  and  Parkes's  Encyclopaedia  of 

Domestic  Economy ;  comprising  such  sub- 
jects as  are  most  immediately  connected  with 
'Housekeeping:  As,  The  Construction  of 
Domestic  Edifices,  with  the  Modes  of  Warm- 
ing, Ventilating,  and  Lighting  them — A  de- 
scription of  the  various  articles  of  Furniture, 
with  the  nature  of  their  Materials — Duties  of 
Servants— &o.  New  Edition ;  with  nearly 
1,000  Woodcuts.    8vo.  price  50s. 

Weld.  —  Vacations  in    Ireland.      By 

Chabi.es  RiOHABD  Wbld,  Barrister  -  at  - 
Law.  Post  8vo.  with  a  tinted  View  of 
Birr  Castle,  price  10s.  6d. 

Weld.-A  Vacation  Tour  in  the  United  States 
and  Canada.  By  C.  R.Weld,  Barrister- at- 
Law.    Post  8vo.  with  Map,  10s.  6d. 

West.  —  Lectures  on  the  Diseases  of 

Infancy  and  Childhood.  By  Chablbs  Wbst, 
M.D.,  "Physician  to  the  Hospital  for  Sick 
Children;  Physician- Accoucheur  to,  and 
Lecturer  on  Midwifery  at,  St.  Bartholomew's 
Hospital    Third  Edition.    8vo.  14s. 


Willich's  Popular  Tables  for  ascertain- 
ing the  Value  of  Lifehold,  Leasehold,  -. 
Church  Property,  Benewal  Fine*,  Ac.  W : 
numerous  additional  Tables — Chemical  As- 
tronomical, Trigonometrical,  Common  ac 
Hyperbolic  Logarithms;  Constants,  Square. 
Cubes,  Boots,  Reciprocals,  &c  Fotr_: 
Edition,  enlarged.    Post  8vo.  price  10a. 

Wilmot's  Abridgment  of    Blackatone's 

Commentaries  on  the  Laws  of  England,  ji- 
tended  for  the  use  of  Young  Persons,  &si 
comprised  in  a  series  of  Letters  from  a  Faf-r.- 
to  bis  Daughter.    12mo.  price  6s.  6cL 

Wilson's   Bryologia  Britannica:    Con- 

tsining  the  Mosses  of  Great  Britain  ari 
Ireland  systematically  arrangedand  describe . 
according  to  the  Method  of  Bruek  et. 
ScMmper;  with  61  illustrative  Places.  B«-- 
a  New  Edition,  enlarged  and  altered,  of  ii* 
Mutcologxa  Britannic*  of  Messrs.  Hooker  an: 
Taylor.  8vo.  42s.;  or,  with  the  ¥Wj& 
coloured,  price  £4.  4b.  cloth. 

Yonge.— A  New  English-Greek  Lexicon : 

Containing  all  the  Greek  Words  used  b* 
Writers  of  good  authority.  By  C.  D 
YOKOB,  B.A.  Second  Edition,  revised  and 
corrected.    Post  4to.  price  21s. 

Yonge's  Hew  Latin  Oradus :  Oontarsiaf 
Every  Word  used  by  the  Poets  of  jr»: 
authority.  For  the  use  of  Eton,  West- 
minster, Winchester,  Harrow,  CfcarterhoLsi, 
and  Rugby  Schools;  King's  College,  Lon- 
don; and  Marlborough  College.  J&?i 
Edition.  Post  8vo.  pice  9a.;  or  mjc 
Appendix  of  Epithet*  classified,  12s.  > 

Youatt.-The  Horse.  By  William  You&tt 

With  a  Treatise  of  Draught.   New  Editioc. 
with  numerous    Wood   Engravings,  fron    , 
Designs   by    William   Harvey.      (Messrs. 
Longman  and  Co.'s  Edition  should  he  or-    ' 
dered.)    8vo.  price  10s. 

Youatt-The  Dog.  By  William  Yoiatt  A 
New  Edition;  with  numerous  Engravings, 
from  Designs  by  W.  Harvey.     8vo.  6s. 

Young.  — The  Christ  of  History:  Ac 

Argument  grounded  in  the  Facts  of  H» 
Life  on  Earth.  By  John  Yorif o,  LLJP. 
Second  Edition.    Post  8vo.  7s.  6d. 

Young.— The  Mystery;  or,  Evil  and  God.  ly 
John  Yottno,  LLJX    Post  8vo.  7a.  6d. 

Zumpt's  Grammar  of  the  Latin  Lan- 
guage. Translated  and  adapted  for  tb* 
use  of  English  Students  by  Db.  L.  8chhiiz. 
F.R.S.E. :  With  numerous  Additions  ari 
Corrections  by  the  Author  and  Translator. 
4th  Edition,  thoroughly  revised.  8vo.  lfc. 
[Octooerl&& 


PSINTBD  BY  SrOTTISWOODB  AND  CO.,  NBW-STBBBT  SUUABB,  LONDOV. 


\y 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Digitized  by 


Google 


3  2044  029  883  519 


Digitized  by 


Google 


