DOCUMENT_ID: wheaton-catalog-1904
TITLE (as printed): Bulletin of Wheaton College, Special Catalog Number, May 1904
DATE: May 1904 (Vol. 1, No. 3)
LANGUAGE: en
SOURCE URL/SHELFMARK: https://archive.org/details/catalogissue1903whea (djvu OCR text: catalogissue1903whea_djvu.txt)
EDITION: Internet Archive digitization of the printed 1904 Wheaton College catalog bulletin; public domain. NOTE: this catalog is from 1904, roughly forty years before Jim Elliot (entered 1945) and Elisabeth Howard (entered 1944) attended Wheaton; used only for general, pre-Elliot-era curriculum/admission background as instructed, not as evidence of the school the Elliots actually attended.
TRANSCRIPTION METHOD: copied (Internet Archive djvu OCR text)
TOTAL PAGES: unpaginated (single web page) unless noted
WORD COUNT: 16793

[[p. 1]]
i ; fs} ne Are ¥. 


UNIVERSITY oF ILLINOES 


Bulletin of 


Wheaton College 
| May, 1904 


Vor i.; No.3 May, 1904 


BULLETIN OF 


WHEATON COLLEGE 


SPECIAL CATALOG NUMBER 


WHEATON, ILLINOIS 


WHEATON COLLEGE PRESS 


Entered at the Post Office at Wheaton, IIl., as Second Class Matter 


September 19. 


September 20. 
November 24. 
December 23. 


January 
January 
February 
March 


April 
April 
May 


June 
June 


June 


June 


June 


2. 


et 
. Sunday, Day of Prayer for Colleges. 


ZO. 


ZI. 


22. 


CALENDAR FOR 1904-1905 


FALL TERM, 1904 
Monday, 10:00 a. m., Entrance Examinations. 
Registration. 

Tuesday, 11:00 a. m., Recitations begin. 
Thursday, Thanksgiving Day. 
Friday, Fall Term closes. 

WINTER TERM, 1905 
Monday, z p. m., Registration. 
Tuesday, 11.00 a. m., Recitations begin, 


Friday, Winter Term closes. 
SPRING TERM, 1905 


. Monday, 2:00 p. m., Registration. 

. Tuesday, 11:00 a. m., Recitations begin. 
. Tuesday, Memorial Day. 

. Saturday, Field Day. 

. Sunday, Baccalaureate Day. 


10:30 a. m., Missionary Address. 
3:00 p. m., Baccalaureate Sermon. 
Tuesday, 
2:30 p. m., Class Day Exercises. 
8:00 p. m., Graduating Exercises of Mascial 
Conservatory and Art School. 
Wednesday, 
10:00 a. m,, Meeting of Board of Trustees, 
2:00 p. m., Graduating Exercises of the Acad- 
emy. 
4:00 p. m., Alumni Reunion. 6:00 p. m., 
Banquet. 
Thursday, Commencement Day. 
10:00 a. m., Commencement Exercises. 
4:00 to 6: 00 p. m., President’s Reception, 
8:00 p. m., Senior Concert. 


Cokie 


th ory. 


AZ 


SOS 


BOARD OF TRUSTEES 


1910 CHARLES A. BLANCHARD, A. M., D. D., President. 
1904 DANIEL FORBES, F. S. CABLE 

1905 W. B. GUILD, F.J. T. FISCHER, M. D. 
1906 GEO. B. HOPKINS, W. H. HOLCOMB 
1907 E. A. COOK, REV. Wm. PINKNEY 

1908 L. N. STRATTON, D. D., F. L. CHAPMAN 
1909 R.J. BENNETT, S. S. ROGERS 

1910 J. W. FIFIELD, D. D. 

1911. C. H, CHASE,.L. L. D,, H. A. SCHRYVER 
1912 C. W.HIATT, D.D., A. M. BRODIE, D. D. 
1913 J. L. REBER, J. T. DALE 


EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 


C, A. Blanchard, Chaiinan, R, J. Bennett, F. S. Cable, C. H. Case, J. T. 
Dale, W. B. Guild, J. L. Reber, S. S, Rogers, H. A. Schryver. 


AUDITORS 
1904, J. T. Dale 1905 F. S. Cable 1906, W. B. Guild 


LADIES’ ADVISORY BOARD 


Mrs, B. L. Ames, Mrs. Sarah Beach, Miss Harriet Blaine, Mrs. F. C. 
Blanchard, Mrs. O. N. Carter, Mrs. E. A. Cook, Miss Elsie S$, Dow, Mrs. 
Margaret French, Mrs. W. K. Guild, Miss A. M. Holcomb, Mrs. B, Loveless, 
Mrs, S.H. Nutting, Mrs. J. L. Reber, Mrs, F. H. Scott, Mrs, D, A. Straw, 
Mrs. E. P. Webster. 


BOARD OF COUNSELORS 


J. Q. Adams, C. M. Avery, Judge O. N. Carter, George M, Clark, W. I. 
Cleveland, W. L. Ferris, D. D.,O. B. Green, George S. Hyde, Col. J. Merriam, 
Rev. W. I. Phillips, J. H. Scarborough, Hon. Samuel Sedgwick, Rev, H. T. 
Smidt, Rev. J. P. Stoddard, Robert Wallace, Judge Charles Wheaton, Rev. 
Henry Willard. 


D. A. Straw, Secretary H, A. Fiscuer, Treasurer 
E. Wuirrix, Librarian 


> 


4 Wheaton College 


FACULTY 


CHARLES A. BLANCHARD, A. M., D. D. 


PRESIDENT, 
PROFESSOR OF PSYCHOLOGY AND ETHICS. 


J. P. Williston Professorship 
HERMAN A. FISCHER, A. M. 
PROFESSOR OF MATHEMATICS AND INSTRUCTOR IN GERMAN 
Moses Pettengill Professorship 
DARIEN A. STRAW, M. S. 
PROFESSOR OF LOGIC AND RHETORIC 
Principal of Academy and Secretary of the Faculty 
ELLIOT WHIPPLE, A. M. 
PROFESSOR OF HISTORY, CIVICS, AND ECONOMICS 
Examiner 
E, E. GUITNER, A. M. 
PROFESSOR OF GREEK LANGUAGE AND LITERATURE 
ELSIE S. DOW, A. M. 
PROFESSOR OF ENGLISH LITERATURE 
Registrar 
Samuel Plumb Professorship 


ROLLIN C. MULLENIX, A. M. 
PROFESSOR OF NATURAL SCIENCE 
GEORGE H. SMITH, A. M., B. D. 
PROFESSOR OF LATIN LANGUAGE AND LITERATURE 
FRANCES C, BLANCHARD, A. M., M. D. 
PROFESSOR OF PHYSIOLOGY 
JULIA E. COOK, B. S., A. M. 


ASSOCLATE PROFESSOR OF MATHEMATICS AND 
INSTRUCTOR IN FRENCH 


Faculty 5 


EDWARD F. WILLIAMS, D.D., LL. D. 
LECTURER ON THE HISTORY OF PHILOSOPHY AND ETHICS 
MISS HARRIET BLAINE, A. M. 

DEAN OF WOMAN’S DEPARTMENT 
MISS BEATRICE CANNON 
PRINCIPAL OF ART SCHOOL 
NORA L, OLIN 
VOICE CULTURE AND CHORUS TRAINING 
HERBERT J. WRIGHTSON 
PIANO, PIPE ORGAN, HARMONY, COUNTERPOINT, AND 
MUSICAL HISTORY 
A. CURTIS GRIMES 
PRINCIPAL OF BUSINESS DEPARTMENT 
ELLWOOD BROWN 
PHYSICAL DIRECTOR FOR YOUNG MEN 
CLARA L. BLANCHARD 
INSTRUCTOR IN PHYSICAL CULTURE FOR YOUNG WOMEN 
W..C. COOPER 
LABORATORY ASSISTANT IN PHYSICS 
FRED M. HANDY 
LABORATORY ASSISTANT IN CHEMISTRY 
S. HUGH PAINE 
MANAGER WHEATON COLLEGE PRESS 


STANDING COMMITTEES 


On College Campus and on Main Building, G. H. Smith. On Gymnasium, 
R. C. Mullenix, On Rehearsals, D. A. Straw. On College 
Record, J. E. Cook, On Athletics, C, A. Blanchard, G. H. 

Smith, and R. C. Mullenix. On Woman’s 
Building, Industrial Building, and Club 
House, C. A. Blanchard, D. A. 

Straw, and E. Whipple. 


GENERAL INFORMATION 


Location 

The city of Wheaton is a beautiful suburb twenty-five miles 
from the heart of Chicago. It is a residence town of about twenty- 
five hundred inhabitants. Saloons and other places of allurement 
to vice are not allowed. Its people are of an unusuaily high degree 
of culture and morality. ‘The main line of the Chicago & North- 
western Railroad passes through the place, having two depots, each 
about half a mile from the College, one in the business part of 
town and the other at College Avenue. About twenty-five trains 
each way are stopped at Wheaton daily, making the run to or from 
the Chicago depot in thirty-five to fifty minutes. The cars of the 
Aurora, Elgin, and Chicago Electric Railway pass near the College 
once in thirty minutes throughout the day an evening. With this 
excellent train service between Wheaton and Chicago, and with the 
very low fares, students in the College have the advantages both of 
residence in a quiet town and of easy access to a great metropolis. 
The museums and art collections of Chicago are regularly visited by 
various classes, accompanied by their teachers. Arrangements may 
also be made to consult the libraries and attend lectures and concerts 
in the city. 

The college buildings are situated on a sightly elevation, in a 
campus of thirteen acres, which is well shaded by a variety of 
forest trees. 


General Information 4 


Railroad Connections 

Persons coming from eastern points will change cars at Chi- 
cago. Persons coming from the west via the Chicago Great 
Western, will change for the Northwestern at Sycamore or St. 
Charles, or may come to Gretna, two miles north of the col. 
lege, arranging beforehand to be met with carriage. The change 
from the Burlington will be made at Aurora; from the Milwaukee 
‘at Elgin. Those coming on other lines will generally do best to 
come by Chicago. 

Origin 

Wheaton College was founded in 1860 by the transfer of 
Illinois Institute from the Wesleyan Methodist denomination to a 
board of trustees affiliated with the Congregationalists. The Culege 
was incorporated under a charter from the state. ‘The first presi- 
dent was Rey. Jonathan Blanchard, who came from the presi- 
dency of Knox College and served until 1882, when his son Charles. 
A. Blanchard succeeded him. 

Its origin and its growth have marked it as a center #f attive 
and vital Christianity. The quality of its managers and patrons 
has given it a chara¢ter of thorough scholarship and spiritual culture. 
Its objective aim is the fully developed man. 

Buildings 

The Main Building is 75 x 190 feet, four stories high, and 
contains recitation rooms, chapel, art studio, musical conservatory, 
library, laboratories, and living rooms for young men. 

The Woman’s Building is 40 x 140 feet, three stories high, 
and contains living rooms, parlors, and the halls of the young 
ladies’ societies. The building is heated by steam, lighted by 
eleétricity, and is entirely modern in its conveniences. 


8 Wheaton College 


The Gymnasium is 60 x 88 feet, three stories high, and con- 
tains parlors, toilet rooms, lavatories, bowling alleys, basezball cage, 
and two society halls, besides the gymnasium proper. The build- 
ing is heated by steam and lighted by eleétricity. 

Across the street north of the campus is the Industrial Build- 
ing, where the printing office and a boarding club are located. 


Laboratories 

The CuemicaL Laporatory is equipped with the apparatus 
and chemicals necessary for experiments in General Inorganic 
Chemistry and in Qualitative and Quantitative Analysis. The 
equipment includes individual tables, water supply, sinks and 
lavatories, burners, sets of drawers at each desk for individual appli- 
ances, ventilated hood for carrying off offensive gases, and ll 
other essentials to successful laboratory work in the courses offered. 
The recitations are conduéted in an adjoining room. 

Tue Brotocicat Laporarory is equipped with tables, thirteen 
compound microscopes, cabinets with specimens of extinét plants 
and animals, an herbarium of present flora, typical illustrative 
material for Mineralogy and Geology, a microtome and other ap- 
paratus and reagents necessary for the preparation of animal and 
plant tissues for microscopic study, a cabinet containing over a 
thousand mounted microscope slides, and other appliances for 
biological study. A supply of marine and other forms not ob- 
tainable in this locality is kept on hand for study. 

Tue PuysicaL Laporatory is a large, well-lighted room, 
with adjacent apparatus rooms and cabinets, adjoining the Physics 
recitation room. It is furnished with tables, burners, and water 
supply; tools and materials; dark room and chemicals for pho- 
tographic work; apparatus for individual experimentation in the 
various departments of physical investigation. 


General Information 9 


Lectures 


In addition to the regular chapel lectures it has been our cus- 
tom to have occasional lectures to which the public are invited. 
One course of popular Stereoptican Lectures on travel, several 
scientific lectures, concerts and general lectures, besides those given 
by home talent have made a large and varied series running through 
the past year. In selecting the talent to bring before the students 
consideration is given to furnishing a high grade of entertainments, 
to securing models for study in elocution and music, and at the 
same time getting the Jargest information value. 


Libraries 

Tue Co.iece Lrprary, occupying the second floor of the 
east wing of the Main Building, is a large and well-lighted room. 
It is open on school days during class hours, Students have free 
access to the books of the Library, and are permitted to draw 
them out under proper restrictions. A portion of the room is set 
apart as a Reading Room, where students are at liberty to read the 
current literature provided, or to study their lessons during intervals 
between classes. At present the library contains about 3,000 
volumes, and additions are being made annually. ‘The books are 
indexed as to Title, Author, and Subjects. 

Apams Memoria Lisrary, a few blocks away, while not 
connected with the College, forms an important addition to the 
facilities of students for investigation and literary work, It is 
open on Wednesday and Saturday afternoons and evenings. 


Additions to Collections 

The friends of the College are now scattered in nearly all 
parts of the world. Many of them have opportunities to secure 
valuable additions to the various collections of the College. It 


10 Wheaton College 


is desired that all such friends communicate with the head of the 
department in which the article is to be added, to learn whether 
it is desired. ‘The cost of transportation and the question whether 
we are already supplied with the article are always matters to 
be considered. 


Physical Culture 

The physical training of students is emphasized in due pro- 
portion with other training. ‘The Director makes a physical ex- 
amination of young men at their entrance, referring all questions 
of doubtful sort to the College Physician. The young ladies are 
likewise given an examination by the Lady Instructor. Ladies and 
gentlemen have alternate class days for gymnasium work. Other 
hours are available every day for individual and group practice. 
The equipment of the gymnasium includes, in addition to articles 


’? chest weights, vaulting horse, bars, 


mentioned under ‘¢ Buildings, 
poles, dumb bells, Indian clubs, wands, mats, running track, 
lockers, shower baths and bathztubs. 

Ample provision is also made for outzof-door athletics, and 
a proper interest in manly sports is encouraged. A portion of the 
campus is set apart for tennis courts, which are under the control 
of various Tennis Clubs. Lawson Field, a traét of nearly five acres 
a short distance north of the campus, furnishes opportunity for base- 
ball, football, and track work. 
Societies 

For literary and parliamentary practice there are five associa- 
tions; the Beltionian and Excelsior for young men of the maturer 
grades, the Kreitonian for young men of the preparatory grades, and 
the AZlioian and Philalethean for young ladies. ‘The Beltionians 
and the Excelsiors have their halls in the Gymnasium Building, the 


General Information II 


Kreitonians in the east wing of the Main Building, and the ladies’ 
Societies on the third floor of the Woman’s Building. All these 
associations have regular meetings on Friday evenings. ‘The pro- 
grams consist of orations, essays, debates, extempore speeches, and 
parliamentary drills, varied with music and other exercises. The 
societies combine in an oratorical and declamatory contest and tne 
successful orator represents the College in an interzcollege contes:. 
Society work is recognized as an important part of the college training. 


Religious Life 


The daily Chapel Exercise, at 10:30 A. M., is primarily a 
devotional half hour for all members of the College. All are ex- 
pected to be present unless there is good reason for absence. 
Some twenty minutes of this time is usually given to an address by 
the President, a Professor, or a speaker from abroad. 

The College Church holds regular services in the chapel at 
10:30 A. M. and at 7:30 Pp. M. each Sunday. Other churches 
in the town which also extend a hearty welcome to any students 
who may wish to make their religious home with them are the First 
Congregational, the Methodist Episcopal, the Baptist, and the 
Episcopal. 

Bible School at 12 o’clock following the Sunday morning 
service affords an opportunity for all to participate either in study 
or teaching. 

The Christian Endeavor meetings in the Prayer Room at 
6:30 Sunday evenings are vital with spiritual impulse. 

The Students’ Prayer Meeting, on every Tuesday evening is 
a historic feature of the College, which has always been a strong 
factor in the religious life of the students. 

The Y. M. C. A. and Y. W. C. A., in addition to their 


12 Wheaton College 


personal, evangelistic and associational work, assume a special re- 
sponsibility for the welcoming of new students, and assist them in 
securing rooms and boarding places, and making other arrangements. 

Christian sentiment pervades the atmosphere of the College, 
and the spiritual culture of all its members receives intelligent con- 
sideration. 


Division Meetings 

On Monday, instead of meeting as a body in chapel services, 
the students meet in smaller groups, each group being under. the 
supervision of a member of the Faculty. These meetings furnish 
an opportunity for the cultivation of a more intimate acquaintance 
between teachers and students, and for the discussion of personal re- 
ligion, habits, dress, etiquette and various other subjects in a freer 
and more confidential way than would be possible in a general 
gathering. Students are encouraged to counsel with their Division 
Officer upon matters of any sort regarding which they may wish 
advice. 


Remodeling 

During the year just past the Main Building has been remod- 
eled and renovated so as to increase greatly the convenience and 
comfort of the classes. ‘The west building above the first floor now 
constitutes a science hall with Physics and Astronomy on the second 
floor, Chemistry and Biology on the third floor. Greek and Latin 
are on the first floor. Several of the class rooms have been en- 
larged. Parlors and toilet rooms have been provided; for ladies in 
the west wing, for gentlemen in the center portion of the first floor 
of Main Building. The Art Studio is transferred to the east wing 
on the first floor. A considerable amount of new flooring and seat- 
ing has been added, and new glass vestibule entrances are provided 
at all outside doors. 


General Information 13 


Equipment 

All the buildings are heated by steam from the industrial plant, 
and are lighted by electricity. They have water supply through- 
out and are modern in their appointments. The class rooms are 
commodious and well lighted, the halls are warmed and so 
arranged that most of the class rooms are accessible from each other 
without going out doors. 


Facilities for Self Help 


While we cannot promise opportunity for earning support to 
all who may desire it, there are means for helping a limited number 
in defraying or reducing their expenses. The College Printing 
Office employs students who are competent. ‘The janitor service 
of all college buildings has been done by students for several years. 
The churches, offices, and residences about town furnish some with 
steady employment. A number of students earn their living in 
homes. Several young people meet the expense of their table 
board by table service at the Hall and at various boarding houses 
and restaurants. Besides there is always more or less work of a 
promiscuous nature to be had by efficient and energetic students. 


Board 

The College Dining Hall is in the annex to the Woman’s 
Building, where the ladies and many of the gentlemen take their 
meals. It is the custom to furnish table board at the lowest price 
possible for an abundant and healthful diet. 

There are students’ clubs at which table board is secured at 
present for two dollars per week. Some students board them- 
selves, and thus further reduce the cost of living. 


Rooms 
The College provides a few rooms for men in the several 


14 Wheaton College 


Buildings. Each suite consists of a study and a bedroom, fully 
furnished with the exception of towels, sheets, pillow cases, and 
carpets. 

Young men who desire rooms in private residences can 
accommodate themselves with any grade of quality and price. 

Rooms in the Woman’s Building are in suites of two or three, 
to accommodate two students in the same study-room. ‘The rooms 
are completely furnished, with the exception of bedzlinen aud 
towels, which young ladies provide for themselves. 

Young ladies in all departments of the institution are required 
to live in the Woman’s Building unless excused by the President. 
Those who are excused may board themselves or earn their living 
in families and thus reduce their expenses. 


Expenses 
COLLEGE AND ACADEMY 


GENERAL: 


Patio’ per. Germ :'. 6... a's s\n aks 4 Mickete-g hs nk uae hh eee 
To children of ministers or missionaries in active service one-half the above 
will be remitted. 
Limited scholarships covering tuition for from one to six years 


can be purchased of the treasurer on the following terms: 


scholarctup for ‘One \¥ tar 5. 55. cae ee eee Ss ee $ 37.00 
Scholarship for‘T wo Yieare ii; 3 £2 55.0 Sokik see Sa see Pee 69.00 
Scholarship for (Three: Yearsd.4...¢-dise + Paes Wiinkines cee ab 100.00 


For each additional year the price is increased by $30.00 


Table Board in Woman’s Building: 


Fall fT ere oc Se kink © hole gb Se Wt pa» oe 38.00 
WY inikes ck CORI. Goo 6c bina oe ose wie ea te ares Digs hips ag? 33.00 
Spring “Derm”. 0. fs shat ste ee wes oe Oe ee ae 33.00 
Four 7W eels; . ook yisenees SSeS ee ee 11.50 


One WW C6K, sso kate bees Stak 3 oie tik eae acide ce . |e 


General Information 


SPECIAL CHARGES: 


Laboratory Fees, per Term: 


Chemistry or Biology............ as Os slpvdesia’ sapesOO 
Physics, Elementary or Advanced....... peli atal tex 'a St ovate @o.8 xO 
Botany or Zoology.............. Bhs Ha ltrs 4 AA SN eps 1.00 
Elocution, private lessons, per hour............ re rile coh Ales 


DEPARTMENTS 


TUITION IN BUSINESS COURSE: 


iS 


FIRST TERM SECOND TERM THIRD TERM 


Business Couree ss), cones 90 80" $21.00 $18.50 $13.50 

Shorthand Course....... saa po? 1,00 18.50 13.50 
Combined Business and EAS rie Rae 
Shorthand Course 5°" *"" pana be . ; 


Those deisring to take single branches in the Business College 


will be accommodated at the following rates: 


Penmanship _halfzhour lessons, per term....... Se ee $3.00 
Bookkeeping “f Ca eA rae Sig's oats a Mine te eee 5.00 
Com’! Arithmetic ‘¢ FE SO AE SERIALS O telt eae 2.00 
Typewriting one hour Ee Mees Fol ONS Meet 2 ijt s Uafelt awiati 3400 


CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC: 


Piano, Organ, Harmony, etc., private half-hour lessons, each. , $1.00 


Voice, private half-hour lessons, each............0.- shee ee 1.00 
Harmony, in class, once a week, per term.,........2-00000- 5.00 
Lo CPO LS CRO Aiea ed tae aepiei aeaeRr Mayer Nae 3.00 
eT TEC Et EE LM Rams we eS te 1.00 


Further particulars will be gladly given on application either to 
the Department or to the President. Full credit given to students 


for previous work done. Correspondence invited. 


ART DEPARTMENT: 


PER TERM OF I2 WEEKS 


Mechanical or Architectural Drawing..........++e00++++ 6.00 


Pencil and Pen Drawing ..........6- éb)e malaria wares 6.00 
Charcoal Drrawitie cer ae is tra ty gta Sieraee Oak a ea aanE wee we 10,00 


16 Wheaton College 


Painting in Water Colors...... fe ca widib eee a cs Ree 12.00 
Oil Painting oc ovis 3's phain sis sie maces os CERES ee 14.00 
China © Painting...’ 5) cs cls e's ba vee Seen tee 15.00 
Pymgraphy |.'s - oso. ss vss b oe kee et. ie ee 10,00 
BUSBY Secs and isn aeca eet ia ene ie. ee 5.00 
Art History (Artistic) 370 vol) ok Web actos ol Be 5.00 
Saturday: Morning Clase 5: 6!,¢s)5 wine cic loin wn bin ere A ee ee 6.00 


The expense for occupants of the Woman’s Building, includ- 
ing tuition, incidental fee, furnished room, heat, light, and table 
board, is from $180 to $200 per year, varying with the location 
of the rooms chosen, providing two persons occupy a suite together; 
any person occupying a suite of rooms alone will be charged 50 per 
cent. extra on rent, fuel, and light. 

No washing is done by the College for the boarders, but 
young ladies living in the Woman’s Building are permitted, under 
proper regulations, to use the laundry, which is supplied with set 
tubs and hot and cold water. 

Furnished rooms for gentlemen cost from $5 to $10 per term 
for each occupant. Fifty per cent. is added to these charges when 
a student occupies a room alone. ; 

Students holding honor scholarships or beneficiary scholarships 
are charged a registration fee of $2.00 per term. 


Free Scholarships 
The Board of Trustees has established perpetual scholarships 
as follows: 


No. NAME DONOR CONDITIONS 
1. Washburn Mrg E. B. Washburn Pays tuition, room-rent 
2. “e ce “ce 
3. Rowena Hudson Stratton Mr. Timothy Hudson a 
4. A.C. Higgins Mrs. Lucy M. Higgins oe 
5. cé ce &é 
6. rT rT rT) 


General Information 7 


7. Katherine Jones Mrs. Katherine Jones sc 
8. Lucinda Beith Mr, G. A. Beith Pays tuition 
g. Morrison Mr. John Morrison One-half tuition 


When beneficiaries are not designated by donors, the use of 
-hese scholarships will be awarded to deserving students by vote of 
the Faculty. 

Additional perpetual scholarships may be established by donat- 
ing to the permanent Scholarship Fund as follows: 


For a perpetual scholarship covering one-half tuition....... $ 500.00 

For a perpetual scholarship covering full tuition........... 1000.00 

Aah the preceding with room rent. os 66. co wna be 88 1500.00 

As in the preceding with fuel and light......... EPs: 2000.00 
Text-Books 


The list of textz-books for the ensuing year is on another page 
of this catalog. All books can be procured at the College Building 
in the Book Room, which is in charge of Messrs. Walter I. and 
James E. Phillips. 

By writing to them in advance of the term opening, students 
may have their supply reserved, and in some cases secure good sec- 
ond hand text-books at a saving of expense. While the regular 
supply of books, tablets, ink, and stationery is kept on hand, special 
orders for these or gymnasium goods can be promptly secured 
through them at regular rates. 


Grades 


In making up the term grade in each study the average of the 
daily recitations, two written examinations, and a final review of at 
least five days are each counted one-fourth. A grade of seventy 
on the scale of one hundred is required for advancement. Those 
who are absent from any recitation or examination are marked zero, 
but on presenting a satisfactory excuse may, at the teacher’s dis. 


18 Wheaton College 


cretion, make up the lost work and receive credit therefor. 

No teacher will excuse any student from examinations or the 
final review. ‘The standing of any who, for good reason, are — 
excused by the Faculty, will be reserved, and upon the payment of 
a fee of fifty cents within a reasonable time, they may be examined 
and their grade will be made up from their term marks in the usual 
way. 

A record is kept of the standing of students, and their grades 
are reported to parents or guardians at the end of each term. 


Supervision 

In the supervision of students, the College seeks’ to promote 
self-government by appealing to the sense of honor and _ personal 
responsibility. 

All students are expected to pursue their assigned duties with- 
out neglect. Regularity, punctuality, orderliness, and courtesy are 
assumed. Direction is given in matters that might otherwise not be 
understood, and all that pertains to excellence of character is fos- 
tered. It is probably best for students to know before coming here 
that they will not be permitted to use tobacco or intoxicants, or to 
attend any secret society. They are also expected to be in their 
rooms at night, and not to leave town save by special permission. 


Postgraduate Scholarship at Harvard University 
Established by the Harvard Club of Chicago 

This scholarship, of the annual value of three hundred dollars, 
is open to the graduates of the universities and colleges of Illinois 
who wish to follow a course of study at the Graduate School of 
Harvard University. Applications must be made before May Ist 
in each year, and senior students about to finish their under-graduate 
course are eligible as candidates. 


ACCREDITED SCHOOLS 


The list of accredited schools is being revised, and at the time 
of publication of this Bulletin includes the High Schools and 
Academies given below. Officers of other schools who wish to 
have their schools added to this list are requested to communicate 
with the examiner, Prof. E. Whipple. Certificates from accredited 
schools are accepted for such studies as they cover, on condition 
that the holders prove themselves competent to do subsequent work. 
Students from accredited schools desiring admission to Wheaton 
College are requested to send for blank forms of << Certificates of 
Preparatory Credits,’’ have them filled out and signed by the super- 
intendent or principal of their respective schools, and return them to 
Prof. Whipple who will inform the applicants what standing they 
can have in College or Academy. 


ACCREDITED HIGH SCHOOLS 

In Illinois; Amboy, Aurora, Austin, Batavia, Buda, Cairo, 
Charleston, Chicago, Decatur, Dixon, Downer’s Grove, Dundee, 
Dwight, Earlville, Elgin, Elmhurst, Evanston, Freeport, Geneva, 
Geneseo, Gray’s Lake, Greenville, Hinsdale, Jacksonville, Kanka- 
kee, Kewanee, LaGrange, LaMoille, Lanark, Marengo, Metro- 
polis, Moline, Naperville, Normal, Oak Park, Ottawa, Pana, 
Princeton, Rock Falls, Rockford, Rossville, Sandwich, Shabbona, 
Springfield, Sterling, Sugar Grove, Sullivan, Sycamore, ‘Taylorville, 
Wheaton, Winnebago, Wyanet. 

In Indiana; Aurora, Bristol, Decatur, Delphi, Garrett, Frank- 
fort, Kokoma, Laporte, Michigan City, Wabash. 

In Iowa; Decorah, Oskoloosa, Waverly, Wilton. 

In Michigan; Adrian, Caro, Cassopolis, Constantine, Howell, 
Imlay City, Jackson, Marine City, Muskegon, Niles, East Saginaw, 
St. Joseph. 

In Wisconsin; Appleton, Monroe, Omro, Racine, Sheboy- 
gan. : 
ACCREDITED ACADEMIES 

In Illinois; Albion, Elgin, Mt. Morris, Northwestern Mili- 
tary Academy, Rice Collegiate Institute, Toulon, Warren. 


In Michigan; Benzonia. 
In Wisconsin; Ashland. 


THE COLLEGE 


Examinations and Admission 

Many high schools are accredited, so that their graduates 
can enter our Freshman class without examination. For all others 
examinations are held on the Monday preceding the opening day 
of each term, and on opening day. Special examination may be 
had at other times by arrangement with the Examiner. New 
students should bring with them their grade cards and credits 
from other schools which they have attended. 

While students are admitted at any time, those who enter 
classes after their organization will be at a disadvantage, and all 
who plan to study in the Institution are urged to be present at the 
beginning of the term if possible. |New students will be 
admitted to the grade for which they are fitted in any department, 
with the understanding that their continuance in that grade is con- 
ditioned upon the successful performance of the work assigned. 

Candidates for admission to the Freshman class must present 
the equivalent of forty-eight admission credits, a credit being at 
least four regularly prepared forty-five minute recitations per week 
for one term of twelve weeks. Of these credits twenty-four must 
be as follows: 

Latin, or Greek, or German, or French, 6; History 3; 
English 6; Algebra 3; Geometry 3; Science (with laboratory 
work) 3. 

The remaining twenty-four credits may be chosen from the 
following electives: 


The College oI 


English 3 to 6; Political Science 11% to 3; History 3 to 6; 
Latin 3 to 12; Greek 3 tog; German 3 to g: French 3 to 9; 
Biology 3 to 6; Botany 14 to 3; Zoology 114 to 3; Chemistry 
3; Physics 3; Physiography 144 to 3; Elementary Astronomy 1; 
Geometry, Solid and Spherical, 1; Elocution z. 

Those who have done work and acquired skill in the follow- 
ing lines may receive credit therefor, the maximum number of ad- 
mission credits allowed being indicated with each branch: Me- 
chanical Drawing 2; Manual Training 3; Stenography 2. 
Those who have done a large amount of high grade work in 
Music or Art may offer such work in lieu of a limited number 
of elective admission credits. 

Students who present a sufficient number of credits to admit 
them to Freshman class but whose electives are not such as to fit 
them for the successful performance of the required work of the 
course they wish to pursue, will make up the necessary work in 
the Academy, the understanding being that three such academic 
credits may offset two college electives. 


Amount of Work 


Fifteen hours per week of prepared recitations has been found 
to be the amount of work that the average student can do success- 
fully. Students are not permitted to take more except by special 
vote of the Faculty. 


Advanced Standing 

In addition to the usual entrance examinations, students de- 
siring advanced standing will be examined in those studies which 
have been pursued by the class they wish to enter. Students from 
wther colleges of equal standing with Wheaton College will be 
credited with the work for which they bring satisfactory records, 


22 Wheaton College 


Special Students 


Students who for any reason do not wish to enter upon either 
of the regular courses of study may pursue any studies offered for — 
which their previous training fits them. 


Degrees 


Students completing the courses of study as announced in the 
Catalog of 1899-1900, will receive the degrees offered in that 
catalog, viz., for the Classical course, A. B.; Scientific, B. S.; 
Literary, B. L. 

Students who comply with the requirements for entrance to 
the Freshman class indicated in the next topic of this catalog, 
and who shall satisfactorily complete the work of either of the four 
courses outlined below, will receive the degree A. B. 

Students who expect to enter a professional school may, if 
they wish, take a ‘Junior Certificate’’ at the close of the Junior 
year, and after the completion of one year of successful work in 
professional school may receive the Bachelor’s Degree. Such 
students are advised to elect in their course the philosophical 
studies of the Senior year. 

One year after graduation, holders of either of the Bachelor 
Degrees, conferred by Wheaton College, will be recommended to 
the Board of ‘Trustees for the appropriate Master’s Degree, pro- 
vided they pass satisfactory examinations on one year of advanced 
study prescribed by the Faculty, and pay the necessary fees. 


Requirements for Graduation 


Candidates for the Bachelor’s Degree must present thirty-six 
college credits, in addition to those presented for admission to 
Freshman Class. A college credit consists of five regularly pre- 


The College 23 


pared one-hour recitations per week for one term. Of these thirty- 
six credits the following eleven are required of all students: 
Mathematics 3; English 3; Political Science 1; Psychology 1; 
Ethics 1; Philosophy of Theism 1; Evidences of Christianity 1. 
The remainder of the work is in a sense elective, the limitation 
being that any student who begins work in any line must continue 
in that line unless permitted to make a change for a valid reason. 

In addition to the 11 constants mentioned above, the 
several courses will require the following credits: 

Classical, Greek 5; Latin 3; English 1. 

Literary, English 2; French 3. 

Latin Scientific, German 3; Latin 3; Chemistry 3; Physics 
3; Biology 1; Astronomy, 2. 

English Scientific, English 1; Analytical Geometry and Cal- 
culus 3; Chemistry 3; Biology 2; Physics 3; French 2; As- 
tronomy 2. 

This leaves free electives to the respective courses as follows: 
Classical 16; Literary 19; Latin Scientific 10; English Scientific 9. 

In order that students may pursue their studies in the most 
advantageous order, and also be saved the annoyance of conflicts 
in the program, we recommend that they take them up as indicated 
in the following outline of courses, as far as possible. A numeral 
after a study indicates the number of hours of recitation work per 
week in that study. Five hours is understood where no numeral 
appears. Studies marked <‘E”’ are electives. In cases in which 
the number of required and elective studies given for a term does not 
exceed three, students will understand that they may offset the elect- 
ives with any other electives which they may wish to study, provided 
of course that the program of recitations permits them to 
do so. 


COURSES OF STUDY 


CLASSICAL COURSE 


FRESHMAN YEAR SOPHOMORE YEAR 


Fall Term Fall Term 
Herodotus 4 Cicero—DeAmicitia as 
History of Greece 1 Plautus—Selected Plays 
Algebra History of Latin Literature 1 
E. German Rhetoric 
Criticism E. Chemistry 
Analytical Geometry 
Winter Term Winter Term 
Memorabilia Horace 
Algebra English Literature 4 
E, German English History 1 
Biology E. Chemistry 
Biology 
Calculus 
Spring Term Spring Term 
Trigonometry and Surveying Greek Orators 
Tacitus or Livy 4 English Literature 4 
Roman History 1 English History 1 
E. German E, Chemistry 
Biology Biology 


Calculus 


The College 25 


Classical Course— Continued 


JUNIOR YEAR SENIOR YEAR 
Fall Term Fall Term 
Greek Testament Psychology 
E, Spherical Trigonometry Political Science 
and Astronomy E. Geology 
Physics ‘History of Civilization 
Latin and Constitutional 
Law 
Winter Term Winter Term 
Greek Tragedies Ethics 
Bible Evidences of Christianity 4 
E. Astronomy History of Philosophy 1 
Physics E. Logic 
Latin 
Spring Term Spting Term 
Science and Art of Expression Philosophy of Theism 
E. Plato E. Sociology z 
Physics Pedagogy 3 
Biology Political Economy 


Latin 


26 - Wheaton College 


LITERARY COURSE 


FRESHMAN YEAR 


Fall Term 


Algebra 
E. German 
Latin 
Greek 


Winter Term 


Algebra 
E. German 
Latin 
Greek 


Spring Term 
Trigonometry and Surveying 
E. German 


Latin 
Greek 


SOPHOMORE YEAR 


Fall Term 


Rhetoric 
Criticism 
E. Chemistry 
Analytical Geometry 


Winter Term 


English Literature 4 
English History 1 
E, Chemistry 
Biology 


Calculus 


Spring Term 


English Literature 4 
English History 1 
E. Chemistry 
Biology 
Calculus 


The College 27 


Literary Course—Continued 


JUNIOR YEAR 


Fall Term 
French 
E. Spherical Trigonometry 
and Astronomy 
Physics 
Criticism 


Winter Term 
French 
Bible 
E. Physics 
Astronomy 
Biology 
Latin 


Spring Term 
French 
Science and Art of Expression 
E. Physics 
Biology 
Latin 


SENIOR YEAR 


Fall Term 
Psychology 
Political Science 
E. Geology 
History of Civilization 
and Constitutional 
Law 


Winter Term 
Ethics 
Evidences of Christianity 4 
History of Philosophy 1 
E. Logic 


Spring Term 
Philosophy of Theism 
E. Sociology 2 
Pedagogy 3 
Political Economy 


28 Wheaton College 


LATIN SCIENTIFIC COURSE 


FRESHMAN YEAR SOPHOMORE YEAR 
Fall Term Fall Term 
Cicero—De Amicitia or Rhetoric 
Plautus—Selected Plays ; + Chemistry 
History of Latin Literature 1 E. Latin 
German Greek 
Algebra Analytical Geometry 
Winter Term Winter Term 
Horace English Literature 4 
German English History 1 
Algebra Chemistry 
E. Latin 
Greek 
Calculus 
Biology 


Spring Term Spring Term 


Tacitus or Livy 4 Chemistry 
Roman History 1 Biology 
German. E. Latin 
Trigonometry and Surveying Greek 
Calculus 


English Literature 4 
English History 1 


The College 29 


Latin Scientific Course— Continued 


JUNIOR YEAR 


Fall Term 
Physics 


Spherical Trigonometry and 


Astronomy 
E. French 
Greek 


Winter Term 
Physics 
Astronomy 

E. French 
Biology 
Greek 
Bible 


Spring Term 
Science and Art of Expres- 
sion 
Physics 
E. French 
Biology 
Greek 


SENIOR YEAR 


Fall Term 
Psychology 
Political Science 
E. Geology 
History of Civilization 
and Constitutional 
Law 


Winter Term 
Ethics 
Evidences of Christianity 4 
History of Philosophy 1 
E. Logic 


Spring Term 
Philosophy of Theism 
E. Sociology 2 
Pedagogy 3 
Political Economy 


30 Wheaton College 


ENGLISH SCIENTIFIC COURSE 


FRESHMAN YEAR SOPHOMORE YEAR 
Fail Term Fall Tcrm 
Rhetoric Chemistry 
Algebra Analytical Geometry 
E Latin E. Criticism 
Greek Latin 
German Greek 
Winter Term Winter Term 
English Literature 4 Chemistry 
English History 1 Calculus 
Algebra Biology 
E. Latin 
Greek 
German 
Spring Term Spring Term 
English Literature 4 Chemistry 
English History 1 Calculus 
Trigonometry and Surveying Biology 
E. Latin 
Greek 


German 


The College 3t 


English Scientific Course—Continued 


JUNIORS YEAR 


Fall Term 
Spherical ‘Trigonometry and 
Astronomy 
Physics 
French 


Winter Term 
Astronomy 
Physics 
French 

E. Bible 


Spring Term 
Science and Art of Expres. 
sion 
Physics 
French 


SENIOR YEAR 


Fall Term 
Psychology 
Political Science 
E. Geology 
History of Civilization 
and Constitutional 
Law 


Winter Term 
Ethics 
Evidences of Christianity 4 
History of Philosophy 1 
E. Logic 


Spring Term 
Philosophy of Theism 
E. Sociology 2 
Pedagogy 3 
Political Economy 


THE COURSES OF INSTRUCTION 


PHILOSOPHY 


I, PSYCHOLOGY. President Blanchard 

The development and laws of mental activity studied with 
text-book and lectures. The bearing of experimentation and 
physiological research upon theoretical and subjective study. The 
relation of psychology to character and education. 


Il, ETHICS. President Blanchard 


Sources, development, reliability and authority of moral ideas. 


Il. PHILOSOPHY OF THEISM. President Blanchard 


The relation of theism to cognitive, speculative and moral 
interests. Its fundamental character in practical belief. Historical 
and analogical arguments. 


IV. EVIDENCES OF CHRISTIANITY. Professor Whipple 


Historic and present theories of our knowledge of God and 
man, and their relation. Method, authenticity, proofs, conclusive- 
ness and universal suitability of the gospel revelation. Bearing of 
criticism and science upon Christianity. 


V. LOGIC. Professor Straw 


Deductive and Inductive. Development of the science. 
Application of its principles. Critical and analytical exercises in the 
art. 


The College 3% 


VI. HISTORY OF PHILOSOPHY. Doctor Williams 


A historical survey of the various philosophical theories that 
have won recognition. Comparative and critical review of each 
with its effects upon its believers. 


HISTORY, and POLITICAL AND SOCIAL SCIENCE 


The collegiate work in Greek, Roman, and English history is done in con- 
nection with Greek, Latin, and English Literature respectively. 


I. HISTORY OF CIVILIZATION AND CONSTITUTIONAL 
LAW. Professor Whipple 
A brief review of ancient civilizations; the origin of govern. 
mental institutions; mediaeval conditions; the Renaissance, the 
Reformation and the development of modern European states; 
special attention to English and American constitutional history and 
the extension of democracy during the nineteenth century. 


Hl. POLITICAL SCIENCE. Professor Whipple 


The principles fundamental to the successful conduct of a 
government by the people; the essential guarantees of personal lib- 
erty; examination and comparison of various forms of government 
as developed in the constitutions of the leading civilized states. 


I, POLITICAL ECONOMY. Professor Whipple 


The underlying principles of Political Economy with abun- 
dant application to questions of present interest and importance, : 
such as banking; currency, including bi-metalism; taxation, includ- 
ing tariff and the single-tax theory; trusts; natural monopolies; 
the wage question, including trades unions and strikes; the theory 
of Malthus; the reflex influence of distribution and consumption 
upon the production of wealth. 


34 Wheaton College 


IV. SOCIOLOGY. Professor Whipple 


The conclusions reached during the two previous terms 
applied to current theories of Socialism and to the present trend | 
toward a larger control of business affairs by the state, with a view 
to ascertaining what dangers are ahead and what changes are likely 
to prove advantageous to mankind. Comparison of text-books; 
collateral reading; reports by students appointed to investigate 
special topics of interest. 


PEDAGOGY. Professor Whipple 


Child Psychology; the methods best adapted to secure natural 
and harmonious mental development; principles and maxims of 
teaching; methods of instruction to be pursued in the various com- 
mon school branches; moral training; use of the Bible in schools; 
school discipline and supervision; reports bearing on the history and 
present condition of education throughout the world; visitation of 
the best public schools in the vicinity, and reports of observations. 


NATURAL SCIENCES 


I. PHYSICS. Professor Fischer 


Prerequisites: Mathematics I. and II. A knowledge of 
Mathematics III. and IV. is desirable. Unless students can give 
extra time to the subject, a knowledge of Elementary Physics will 
be found necessary. 

Recitations or leétures four hours per week. Laboratory work 
two hours. Special attention given to proving and verifying the 
mathematical theories involved. 

1. Mechanics and Heat. 

z. Heat (completed), Electricity and Magnetism. 

3. Sound and Light. 


The College 35 


Il, CHEMISTRY. Professor Mullenix 


Laboratory work, lectures, and recitations. Training in 
manipulation of apparatus, closeness of observation and accuracy of 
description. Students will find it advantageous to have had Alge- 
bra and Elementary Physics before taking up Chemistry. 

1. <A study of non-metals and their compounds. Introduc- 
tion to the fundamental theories of chemical science. Laboratory 
work, four to six hours. Recitations or lectures, one or two hours. 

z. Completion of non-metals, Study of the metals and 
their compounds, . Introduction to Qualitative Analysis. Deter- 
mination of basic and acid radicals of simple salts. Laboratory 
work, six to eight hours. Recitations and lectures as occasion 
demands, 

3. Qualitative Analysis of mixtures of salts, of alloys and of 
minerals. Theory of solutions. Introduction to quantitative 
methods. Use of analytical balance. Largely laboratory work. 


Ill BIOLOGY. Professor Mullenix 


Laboratory work from six to eight hours per week. Recita- 
tions or lectures, one or two hours per week. ‘The fundamental 
principles of biological science. A previous study of Elementary 
Botany and Zoology, while not essential, will be found very 
advantageous. 

1. Cryprocamic Borany—Study of the structure, physi- 
ology, and life histories of algae, flngi, liverworts, mosses, 
ferns, and horsetails. 

2. PHanEroGamMic Botany—Study of representative pines, 
and monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous plants. Experiments 
in Plant Physiology. Ecology. 

3. InverresraTE ZooLtocy—Study of the structure, life 


36 Wheaton College 


processes, and mode of life of at least one representative of each of 
the more important groups of Invertebrates. Collateral read- 
ing. Museum work. 

4. VERTEBRATE ZooLocy—Study of representatives of each 
of the groups of Vertebrates: amphioxus, fish, frog, snake, 
bird, mammal. Comparative Anatomy. | Museum work. 
Classification. 


Courses 1 and 2 alternate with courses 3 and4. The former will be given 
in 1903-1904 and the latter in 1904—1905. 


IV. ASTRONOMY. Professor Fischer 


Prerequisites, Mathematics I. and I]. A knowledge of 
Mathematics III. and IV. and of Mechanics and Optics is desirable. 

1. SPHERICAL ‘TRIGONOMETRY and its applications to the 
celestial sphere. Astronomical instruments and problems. Cor- 
rections to celestial observations. Determination of terrestrial 
latitude and longitude. Study of the Earth as an astronomical 
body, also of the Moon. Careful consideration of mathematical 
theories involved. 

z. The Sun; eclipses; planets (including central forces, 
Keppler’s laws, etc.), comets, fixed stars, nebulae. Cosmog- 
ony. Illustrated lectures, including a course on the History of 
Astronomy. Observing and sketching sun spots. Students are 
expected to make an independent study of the heavens, noticing the 
grouping of fixed stars into constellations, and the motions of othes 
heavenly bodies. 


V. GEOLOGY. Professor Mullenix 


1. Recitations, lectures, museum and field-work. 
Observation of surface changes now going on in the earth. 


The College Bi 


Study of the local evidences of glacial period. Examination oi 
several stone-quarries and gravel pits in locality, for illustrations in 
Structural Geology. Historical Geology. Study of fossils in our 
«wn museum and in Field Columbian Museum. 


MATHEMATICS 
I. ALGEBRA. Miss Cook 


1. Review; Special Quadratic Forms; Ratio and F.Jpor- 
tion; Variation; Arithmetical, Geometrical and Harmonical Pro- 
gression; Binomial Theorem; Permutations. 

z. Undetermined Coefficients; Binomial Theorem for neg- 
ative and fractional exponents; Recurring Series; Differential 
Method; Interpolation; Logarithms; Exponential Equations; 
General Theory of Equations; Descarte’s Rule of Signs; Sturm’s 
Theorem; Solution of Higher Numerical Equations; Recurring 
or Reciprocal Equations, Cardan’s Method for Cubic Equations, 
Biquadratic Equations, Horner’s Method, Approximation. 


I. PLANE TRIGONOMETRY AND SURVEYING.  Pro- 


fessor Fischer 


Prerequisites: Algebra, Geometry. 

Solution of Right and Oblique Triangles. Trigonometric 
Formulae. Field-work, including measurements of heights and 
distances, plotting, and determination of areas. 


Il. ANALYTICAL GEOMETRY. Professor Dow 
IV. CALCULUS. Professor Dow 


1. Differential. | 
2. -Integral. 


38 Wheaton College 


ENGLISH 
I. RHETORIC. Professor Straw 


General Principles and Laws of Effectiveness in Discourse. 
Specific Modifications and Applications. Varieties of Discourse 
and the laws of each. Exercises in Criticism. 


Il. SCIENCE AND ART OF EXPRESSION. Professor Straw 


Written and oral. Original composition;: delivery. Ana- 
lytical study and praétice in breathing, voice, a€tion and bearing. 
Adaptation, modulation, implication as needed in the various kinds 
of discourse. Declamation, Essay, Oration, Leéture, Poem. 


Il ANGLO SAXON. Professor Dow 


Language and literature. Recreation studies concerning the 
Celtic peoples and literatures; including readings, leétures, and 
especially search for Celtic elements in English masterpieces. 


IV. HISTORY OF ENGLISH LITERATURE. Professor Dow 


Presupposes a more or less extended study of the works 
of the greater writers of each period; additional readings from the 
writings of each group; additional analysis of short poems and 
sketches; a brief course in the ‘¢ Analytics of Literature.’ 


V. ENGLISH CRITICISM, Professor Dow 


1. The basis of the work will be selections from the best 
literature of the Victorian Era, the period most lightly treated in 
Course IV.; but for purposes of comparison, classics from other 
periods will be freely used. 

In connection with Courses III., IV. and V. 1, special 
theses will be required from the student each term, as well as shorter 


The College 39 


studies, sketches, analyses and reviews. Weekly leétures on 
English History throughout the year. 

z. Research and theses. A final survey of the field of 
English Literature in a course of lectures given by the students 
themselves on representative writers. 

Prerequisites, the work in English offered in the Academy, 
and courses III., IV. and V. 1, or equivalent. 


ANCIENT LANGUAGES 


I LATIN. Professor Smith 


1. Cicero—De Amicitia and De Senectute. A comparison 
with other writings of the author, and a general study of the prose 
writers of his time. History of Latin Literature one hour a week. 

2. Horace—Selected Odes and Epodes. Review of Latin 
prosody and study of the meters of Horace. Paraphrases of many 
odes required, and metrical translations urged. Written discussions 
suggested by the texts. 

3. Tacirus—-Germania and Agricola. Portions of Caesar 
read in connection with Germania. Study of the colonial policy 
of Rome; The Social and Political Conditions of the Empire. 
Roman History one hour a week. Special study of the Rise and 
Fall of the Roman Empire. 

4. Piautus anp TerencE—Selected plays. Study of the 
history and character of the Roman drama. ‘The Private and 
Social life of the Romans. History of Roman Literature one hour 
a week. 

5. Horace—Seleéted satires and epistles. History and 
character of Greek and Roman satire. Preparation of papers on 
~ subjects suggested by the text. Sight reading from Ovid. 


49 Wheaton College 


6. Livy—Portions of Books I., XXI. and XXII. Roman 
historians; legends of early Rome; lives and _ charaéters 
of Rome’s best men. Roman History one hour a week. Spe- 
cial study of the period of the Punic Wars. | 


Courses 1, 2 and 3 alternate with 4, § and 6, the former being offered in 
1903-1904, the latter in 1904-1905. 


Il GREEK. Professor Guitner 


1. Ionic Prosse—Herodotus. History of Greece, by topical 
study and prepared papers. 

z. Attic Prose—Xenophon’s Memorabilia. Grecian an- 
tiquities. Collateral reading and investigation of special topics will 
be required. . 

3. GreExK Orators—Demosthenes de Corona or Lysias’ 
Orations. Study of the History of Oratory. 

4. New Testament Greex—One of the Gospels, the 
Aé&ts, and General and Pastoral Epistles. 

5. Greex ‘TRacepy—Sophocles, Euripides or Aeschylus. 
Development of the Greek Drama. History of Greek Literature. 

6. Pxratro’s Dratocues—History of Greek Philosophy. 


MODERN LANGUAGES 


I, GERMAN. Professor Fischer 


1. Goethe’s Hermann and Dorothea; Schiller’s Lied von 
der Glocke; modern stories; sight reading; composition. 

2. Schiller’s Maria Stuart; Bernhardt’s Deutsche Littera- 
turgeschichte; sight reading. 

3. Goethe’s Iphigenie auf ‘Tauris; modern stories; sight 
reading; composition. 


The College 41 


Il. FRENCH. Miss Cook 


1. Chardenal, lessons 1-55; grammar and prose; study of 
nouns, pronouns, adjectives, adverbs, conjugation of avoir and etre. 

Translation of Erckmann-Chartrian’s ‘‘Conscrit de 1813.’? 

_ 2,  Chardenal, lessons 56-100; grammar and prose; the 

regular conjugations, subjunctive mode, infinitives, and participles. 

Translation of Davies’ Scientific Reader. 

3. Chardenal, lessons 101-129; grammar and prose; irregu- 
lar verbs and idioms. 

Traaslation of Moliére’s ‘*Bourgeois Gentilhomme,’’ Ra- 
cine’s ‘*Athalie,’? and Hugo’s **La Chute.’? Supplementary 
reading in class. 


BIBLE 

‘The Bible itself is used as the chief text-book, students being 
directed in respect to methods of study and the use of helps. 

Three courses have been laid out to be given in successive 
years, so that students desiring to take them all may do so by eleét- 
ing Bible study in three successive Winter terms. 

Weekly Bible study is required of all students for a half hour 
on each Lord’s Day. 


I. DOCTRINES OF THE BIBLE. Professor Whipple 


Attributes of God. Spirit, unity, self-existence, omnipresence, 
personality, omnipotence, omniscience, holiness, love, justice, right- 
eousness, mercy, faithfulness, providence. 

Facts about Christ. Preexistence, incarnation, miracles, 
death, resurrection, ascension, exaltation, second coming. 

Attributes of Christ. Divinity, subordination to the Father, 
humanity, holiness, love, compassion, faithfulness, meekness. 

Attributes of Holy Spirit. Personality, divinity, distinétion 
from Father and Son. 


42 Wheaton College 


Work of Holy Spirit. Work in creation, regeneration, reveia- 
tion, comforting, supporting, conferring power for service, how this 
power is obtained, variety of work in believers, in apostles and 
prophets, in Christ. 

Man. His original condition, fall, present condition, destinv, 
justification, repentance, regeneration, sanctification, faith, prayer, 
worship, assurance, future life. 

Angels. Nature, position, work. 

Satan. Nature, work, destiny. 

Marital Relations. 

The Sabbath. 

Church officers. Qualifications and duties. 


Il. NEW TESTAMENT DISPENSATION. Professor Whipple 


Relation of New Testament to Old. Messianic prophecies 
and their fulfillment. Conditions at birth of Christ; social, politi- 
cal, economic. Discussion of chief events in life of Christ; birth, 
childhood, temptations, miracles, parables, teachings, crucifixion, 
resurrection. History of early church; work of the Holy Spirit, 
organization, persecutions, missionary journeys of St. Paul, Jirst 
Christian council. Analysis of teachings of the Epistles. 


Il. POETRY AND PROPHECY. Professor Whipple 


Poetical Books. Occasions, authorship, conditions; motive, 
imaginative and emotional quality; matter, purpose, philosophy; 
incidents, customs. 

The Prophets and Revelation. Place, time, circumstances, 
authority of each; subject matter, object (national, social, personal), 
literary form, symbolism, visions, application and interpretation; 
messages, predictions and their fulfillment. 


THE ACADEMY 


The Academic Department is housed in the same buildings as 
the College. ‘The instruction is given in large part by the College 
Professors. ‘The students have the same privileges in the library, 
laboratories, gymnasium and general exercises as those of the Col- 
lege, in so far as is appropriate to their work. 


Curricula 


The academic work includes four Preparatory Courses leading 
to the corresponding College Courses; a Teacher’s Course de- 
signed to prepare for First Grade Teacher’s Certificate; and in so 
far as the demand may exist, classes in common English branches; 
but no promise is made to conduct classes in these branches for 
fewer than eight persons. 


Requirements for Admission 


For entrance upon any of the Courses a good knowledge of 
the common English branches is necessary. In cases where the 
preparation in general is inadequate, special deficiencies may be made 
up by the aid of tutors under the direction of the Faculty. 


Amount of Work 


As a rule, students in the Academy have fifteen one hour reci- 
tations per week, as in the College. 


COURSES OF STUDY 


CLASSICAL, LITERARY and LATIN SCIENTIFIC 


FIRST YEAR 


Fail Term 


Latin 

Elocution 

General History 
*Blackboard Drawing 


Winter Term 


Latin 

Essays and Letters 
General History 
Singing 2 


Spring Term 
Latin 
Rhetoric 


General History 
*Blackboard Drawing 


COURSES 


SECOND YEAR 


Fall Term 


Caesar 
Algebra 
Zoology 


Winter Term 
Caesar 
Algebra 
Physiology 


Spring Term 
Cicero 
Algebra 
Botany 


*Blackboard Drawing is taught both in the Fall and Spring terms. The 
first year class will be divided into two sections, one section taking it in the Fall, 


the other in the spring. 


The Academy 45 


Classical Course—Continued 


THIRD YEAR FOURTH YEAR 

Fall Term Fall Term 

Bible Vergil 

Greek Greek 

Geometry German 
Winter Term Winter Term 

Cicero Vergil 

Greek | Greek 

Geometry German 6 
Spring Term Spring Term 

English Vergil or Orations 

Greek German 6 


Geometry Greek 


46 


Wheaton College 


Literary Course—Continued 


THIRD YEAR 


Fall Term 


Bible or Greek 
English 
Geometry 


Winter Term 


Cicero or Greek 
English 
Geometry 


Spring Term | 
Cicero or Greek 
English 
Geometry 


FOURTH YEAR 


Fall Term 


Vergil, or Greek, or German 
English 
Physics 


Winter Term 


Vergil, or Greek, or German 
English 
Physics 


Spring Term 
Vergil, or Greek, or German 
English 
Orations 


The Academy 47 


Latin Scientific Course—Continued 


THIRD YEAR 


Fall Term 
Bible 


Physical Geography 


Geometry 


Winter Term 


Cicero 
Geometry 
English 


Spring Term 


Cicero 
Geometry 
English 


FOURTH YEAR 


Fall Term 
Vergil 


German 


Physics 


Winter Term 
Vergil 


German 6 


Physics 


Spring Term 


Vergil 
German 6 
Orations 


48 Wheaton College 


ENGLISH SCIENTIFIC COURSE 


FIRST YEAR 


Fall Term 


Elocution 

General History 
English Analysis 
*Blackboard Drawing 


Winter Term 
Essays and Letters 
General History 
English Analysis 
Singing 2 


Spring Term 
American Literature 
Rhetoric 
General History 
*Blackboard Drawing 


*See note page 44. 


SECOND YEAR 


Fall Term 


Algebra 
Zoology 
Bible 


Winter Term 
Algebra 
Physiology 
Commercial Law 


Spring Term 
Algebra 
Botany 
Commercial Arithmetic 


The Academy 49 


English Scientific Course—Continued 


THIRD YEAR FOURTH YEAR 
Fall Term Fall Term 
Physical Geography ’ German 
Geometry Physics 
English English 
Winter Term Winter Term 
Elocution German 6 
Geometry Physics 
English English 
Spring Term Spring Term 
Geometry German 6 
Civil Government Orations 


English English 


50 Wheaton College 


TEACHER’S COURSE 


Below is a list of studies selected from the regular courses, 
suggested for students who wish to fit themselves for teaching, but 
who are not able to pursue a longer course. ‘The required studies 
include those essential for a First Grade Certificate in Illinois. 


FIRST YEAR SECOND YEAR 
Fall Term Fall Term 
Zoology Physics 
Algebra Geometry 
E, General History E. English 


Physical Geography 


Review Arithmetic 


Winter Term 


Winter Term 
Physiology Physics 
Algebra Geometry 
E. General History E. English 
Essays and Letters Elocution 
Spring Term Spring Term 
Botany Geometry 
Algebra Pedagogy 
E. General History E. Civil Government 
Rhetoric English 


THE COURSES OF INSTRUCTION 


LANGUAGES 
I, LATIN. Professor Smith 


1. First Year. Beginner’s course. A study of vocabu- 
lary, idioms, forms and syntax, Daily oral and written prose 
composition. 

2. Seconp Year. Selected readings from Viri Romae, 
Nepos and other texts. Caesar: the equivalent of four books. 
Study of the life and times of Caesar. Prose composition through- 
out the year based on the text. 

3. Tuirp Year.  Sallust’s Catiline. Cicero: three ora- 
tions against Catiline; selected letters; the Manilian Law and 
Archias. Sight reading. Prose composition based on the text. 

4. Fourtu Year. Professor Dow 

Vergil: nine books; prosody; mythology; study of the 
Aeneas legend. Vergil’s indebtedness to Greek poetry and his 
influence on that of the Middle Ages. 


Il. GREEK. Professor Guitner 


1, First Year. Greek Grammar and Lessons. The ac- 
quirement of the elements of the Greek language. The writing of 
the Greek will form an important part of the work. Xenophon’s 
Anabasis. Greek prose composition. Written translations. 


z. Seconp YEaR. Xenophon’s Anabasis continued. Greek 


52 Wheaton College 


prose composition throughout the year. Xenophon’s life and lit- 
erary work. Homer’s Iliad: Books I., II., Ll., IV., VI. 
Prosody. Comparative notice of other national epics. Homeric 
antiquities and mythology. 


tT, GERMAN. Professor Fischer 


1. First Year. Vocabularies; forms; construction; exer- 
cises in reading, conversation, and composition. 

Im Zwielicht. Niebuhr’s Heroen-geschichten as _ sight 
reading. 

Schiller’s Wilhelm Tell; exercises based on it. 


NATURAL SCIENCES 
I. BIOLOGY 


1. Zootocy. Professor Mullenix. 

Laboratory work, lectures, recitations. Use of compound 
microscope. Study of typical forms. Drawings and written exer- 
cises. Relation of struéture and funétion. Animal physiology. 
The study of animals as related to environment. Field work. 
Museum study. 

In conneétion with this, botanical subjeéts which cannot well 
be studied in the spring will be taken up, such as fruits, seed dis- 
persal, fall of leaves. 

2. Puysiorocy. Doétor F. C. Blanchard. 

Demonstrations, lectures, recitations. ‘The anatomy of the 
human body. Application to the human body of physiological 
principles learned in connection with study of Zoology. Hygi- 
enic living. Care of the sick. Emergencies. 

3. Botany. Professor Mullenix. 


The Academy 53 


Laboratory work, leétures, recitations. The gross and mi- 
nute structure of roots, stems, leaves, and flowers. Drawings and 
written descriptions. Plant relations. Field work. The life 
processes of plants. Sufficient herbarium work to familiarize the 
student with methods of preserving plants and using botanical key. 
Considerable study of several of the more important orders of 
flowering plants. 

In conneétion with this, metamorphosis of frog and inseéts, 
and other zoological subjeéts which cannot be studied in the fall. 


Il. PHYSICS. Professor Mullenix 


During the six months devoted to this study, each student 
will be required to perform seventy-five experiments. Recitations, 
demonstrations and lectures. 

1. Properties of matter. Mechanics of solids and fluids. 
Heat. 

2. Magnetism and Electricity. Sound. Light. 


Ill) PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY. Professor Whipple 


The earth in its relations to the solar system, changes of sea. 
son, tides; the compass and its variations; geysers, volcanoes, arte- 
sian wells, earthquakes; relief forms and drainage; ocean currents, 
air currents, precipitation of moisture, cyclones, isothermals, varia- 
tions of climate; mines and minerals; distribution of plants and 
animals, commercial routes, and the varieties of the human race. 


54 Wheaton College 


ENGLISH 
I. EXPRESSION. Professor Straw 


J. ExocuTion. 

a. Elementary principles. Breath direction and man- 
agement; tone varieties and modifications; voice culture, articula- 
tion, pronunciation; thought analysis and interpretation; bearing, 
poise, walk; gesture, harmony, grace, force. Physical and vocal 
training and drill. 

5. Application of principles. Interpretation of various 
types of discourse. ‘Theory and practice. Recitation of elocu- 
tionary classics and masterpieces. 

2. Essays AND LETTERs. 

Original composition; delivery; criticism; revision. Letters: 
formal, business and social. Essays: ten types. Synopses of lec- 
tures and sermons. 

3. EncuisH ANALYsIs. 

Words: etymology, synonyms, relations. Sentence structure: 
elements, modifications, adaptation. Paragraphs: varieties and 
their combination. Idioms; condensation, amplification; abbrevia- 
tion. 

4. RHETORIC. 

Its province and purpose; principles, and their applications to 
the elements of discourse; figures as a rhetorical instrument; its 
use in correcting faults of language; kinds of discourse; adaptation 
to occasion; adaptation to thought and sentiment. 

5. Orartions. 

Original composition; delivery; criticism; revision. Varie- 
ties as to use, theme, occasion, audience, mental attitude. Aids 
as to subject, materials, appeal, action. Study of classic orations. 


The Academy me 


6. American Literature. Miss Cook 
General study of the lives and writings of leading American 
authors. 


Il, CRITICISM. Professor Dow 


The courses extending through the last two years of the 
Academy are arranged chronologically, following in the main the 
divisions of Green’s Short History of the English People which 
will be studied in connection with the literature of each period 
throughout both years. 

1. The first three chapters in Green’s History, or as far as the 
time of the First Edward. 

Tennyson’s Harold and Becket; Bulwer Lytton’s Harold, the 
Last of the Saxon Kings and Kingsley’s Hereward, the Last of the 
Saxons; Shakespeare’s Macbeth and King John; Scott’s Talisman 
and Ivanhoe. 

z. Chapters IV., V. and VI. of Green’s History, to the 
Protestant Reformation; Chaucer and his contemporaries; More and 
other forerunners of the Elizabethan Era; the patriotic literature in- 
spired by the Scottish struggle in the heroic age of Wallace and 
Bruce; historical plays beginning with Marlowe’s Edward II. and 
ending with Shakespeare’s Henry VIII. 

3. The Age of Elizabeth: primarily, its Literature; seconda- 
rily, its History as reflected in its literature, as well as in later suc- 
cessful] efforts to reproduce the age in song and story, in_ historical 
portrait and biographical sketch. © 

4. Literature and history of the Stuart period, including the 
commonwealth; the earlier writers of the age of Anne as well as 
the great Puritans and Dryden; reading and criticism of Macaulay’s 
History of England. 


56 Wheaton College 


5. Eighteenth century literature with Macaulay’s historical 
essays on the great statesmen of the last half of the century; Dr. 
Johnson and his ‘**Club’’; tracing of the change in poetry from © 
Pope to Wordsworth. 

6. General view of the nineteenth century literature both in 
England and America; special acquaintance with a number of rep- 
resentative works of representative authors. 


Courses 1, 2 and 3 in Criticism alternate with courses 4, 5 and 6 The 
former will be given in 1902-1903, the latter in 1903-1904. 


MATHEMATICS 
I. ALGEBRA. Miss Cook 


1. Notation; Fundamental operations; Factoring; Highest 
Common Factor; Least Common Multiple; Fractions. 

z. Simple Equations; Involution; Involution by Binominal 
Theorem; Evolution; Fractional Exponents. 

3. Radicals; Simplification and reduction of Radicals; 
Fundamental Operations; Equations involving Radicals; Quadratic 
Equations. 

Il. GEOMETRY. Miss Cook 

1. Plane Geometry: Books I.—III. 

z. Plane Geometry: Books IV.—V.; Solid G metry: 
Book 1. 

3. Solid Geometry completed. Special attention will be 
given throughout to original work. | 


HISTORY, CIVICS AND COMMERCIAL LAW 


I, GENERAL HISTORY. Professor Whipple 
The purposes of the study of General History are to interest 


The Academy $7 


students in historical reading; to form right habits of thinking on 
historica! subjects; and to fix in mind such a knowledge of the 
general course of events in the world’s history as may serve for a 
substantial framework for future reading and study in history, litera- 
ture, and the social sciences. ‘The subject will be studied by 
students in all courses throughout the first year. 


U. CIVIL GOVERNMENT. Professor Whipple 


Origin of constitution of United States. An outline of the 
various departments of government, their functions and limitations, 
officials and mode of election or appointment; the state constitu- 
tions and officials and their relations to the federal government; 
local government of counties, towns, cities, and school districts; 
reasons for existing governmental institutions and possible improve- 
ments. 


Ill, COMMERCIAL LAW. Professor Whipple 


Nature and sources of laws; legal rights and remedies; the ele- 
ments essential to a contract and its discharge, including commercial 
papers; agencies; partnerships; corporations; business transactions; 
carriers’ liability; suretyships; fire and life insurance; real estate 
titles; relation of landlord and tenant; common law, equity courts, 
statute laws, and reasons for each. 


BIBLE 


Three different courses are laid out to be given in successive 
years, for the same purpose as in the College. 


1, OLD TESTAMENT. Professor Smith 


1. Introduction. Books of Bible in order; authors, dates, 


58 Wheaton College 


general contents; grouping of books. (Repeated in each course.) 

z. From Creation to Captitvity in Egypt. Creative acts, the 
fall, the deluge, racial settlements; biographies of the patriarchs. 

3. From the Exodus to the Captivity of Israel. Building 
of Hebrew nation; Decalogue, ceremonialand civil laws; biographies 
of leaders; political changes; social, industrial, charitable, and 
religious customs; elements of national greatness; causes of downfall. 

4. Literature. Special study of Psalms 1, 8, 19, 23, 37, 
51, 119, 139, 144, 145, and Book of Proverbs. 

Tl, OLD TESTAMENT (Continued). Professor Smith 

1, Introduction. (As in preceding course. ) 

z. History of Kingdom of Judah. Biographies of leading 
characters; changes in religious. economic, and social conditions, 

3. Story of the Captivity and Return. 

4. History of the Jews from the Return to the time of Christ. 

5. Literature. Special study of selections from Isaiah, Jere- 
miah, Ezekiel, Daniel, and Malachi. 

Il. NEW TESTAMENT. Professor Smith 

1. Introduction. (As in preceding courses.) 

2, Life of Christ. Messianic prophecies and their fulfill- 
ments; principal events, miracles, parables, teachings, commands, 
promises, death, resurrection. 

3. Establishment of Christian church. Work of the Holy 
Spirit, miracles, persecutions, early successes, first steps in church 
organization. 

4. Life of St. Paul. Education, conversion, missionary 
journeys, chronology of epistles. 

5, Literature. Special study of selections from the Epistles 
and the Revelation with practical applications of their teachings 
to Chistians living in the twentieth century. 


STUDENT MISSIONARY DEPARTMENT 


Wheaton College has arranged with the American Sunday 
School Union of the Northwestern district so that it can give a 
three-year scholarship to any worthy young man who will engage 
to spend six months each year in college and the other six months 
in the Sunday School missionary work of the Union. The plan 
provides for special college work, and for the means to cover the 
necessary expenses during the entire three years, both in college 
and in the field. 

Before beginning his study the applicant shall deposit ¢100.00 
to pay for his first six months at college. While at work for the 
American Sunday School Union, he will receive for the six months 
of the first year $33.33 per month. Of this amount the Union 
deposits with the college to his credit $17.00. For the six 
months of the second and third years the Union makes the deposits 
as before, but he has for his own use during these periods $21.33 
permonth. At the close of the third year he has his money back 
as at the beginning. 

The student will be expected to take not fewer than 13 
hours and not more than 18 hours per week of prepared reeitation 
and to do a reasonable amount of Normal work, and of Personal 
work as given by the College. 

At the end of his first year’s work he will be examind in both 
his school and his missionary work, and those ranking go per cent 
are to receive an additional amount of $30.00; those 80 per cent, 
$20.00; and those falling below 70 per cent will be discontinued. 
A special certificate will be given on the completion of the three 
years’ course. 


COURSE OF STUDY “ 
FOR ANERICAN SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION STUDENTS 


FIRST YEAR 


Fall Term Winter Term 
REQUIRED— REQuiRED— 
General History General History 
Bible Bible 
English Analysis Essays 

Electives for students who have had some of the preceding 
Greek Testament English Criticism 
English Criticism Elocution 

SECOND YEAR 

Fall Term Winter Term 
REQuIRED— REQUIRED— 
Church History English Criticism. 
Bible Bible 
Elocution History of Missions 
ELEecTIvVEs— ELEcTIVEs— 

Greek ‘Testament English Literature 
English Criticism Physiology 
THIRD YEAR 

Fall Term Winter Term 
REQuIRED— _ ReEgQuirED— 
Psychology Evidences of Christianity 
Bible Bible 
Church History Ethics 
ELECTIVES— ELECEIVEsS— 

Greek Testament English Criticism 
Political Science Logic 


Note—Chapel lectures required throughout the course. Normal work in 
Sunday School methods continuous throughout the course, one hour on Sunday, 
For details of Bible couress, see pages 41, 42, 57, and following. 


TEXT-BOOKS FOR 1904-1905 


THE COLLEGE 


PHILOSOPHY :— 
Ladd’s Outlines of Descriptive Psychology. 
Bowne’s Principles of Ethics. 
Bowne’s Theism. 
Butler’s Analogy of Religion. 
Fisher’s Evidences of Theistic and Christian Belief. 
Weber’s History of Philosophy. 
Jevon’s Logic. 


History, Civics anp Economics:— 

Creighton’s History of Rome. 

Fyffe’s History of Greece. 

Green’s History of England. 

Morris’s Civilization. 

Burgess’ Political Science. 

Francis Walker’s Political Economy (Advanced Course) 
Pepacocy:—White’s Elements. 


Natura ScIENCE:-— 
Hastings and Beach’s General Physics. 
Ames and Bliss’ Manual of Experiments In Physics. 
Parker’s Biology. 
Dodge’s Practical Biology. 
Smith’s Experiments in General Inorganic Chemistry. 
Newth’s Inorganic Chemistry. 
Dennis and Whittlesey’s Qualitative Analysis, 


62 Text-books 


Young’s General Astronomy. 
Le Conte’s Elements of Geology. 


MaTHEMATICs :— 
Wells’ University Algebra. 
Ashton and Marsh’s ‘Trigonometry. 
Robbins’ Surveying and Navigation, 
Ashton’s Analytical Geometry. 
McMahon and Snyder’s Differential Calculus. 
Murray’s Integral Calculus. 


ENGLIsH:— 
Hill’s Science of Rhetoric. 
Pancoast’s English Literature. 


Latin:— 
Bennett’s or Harkness’ Latin Grammar. 
Smith and Greenough’s Horace. 
Chase and Stuart’s Tacitus. 
Elmer’s Plautus. 
Greenough and Peak’s Livy. 
Kelsey’s De Senectute and De Amicitia, 
White’s Latin-English Dictionary. 


GREEK: — 
D’ Ooge’s Demosthenes on the Crown. 
D’ Ooge’s Antigone. 
Westcott and Hort’s Greek ‘Testament, 
Lodge’s Gorgias. 
Mather’s Herodotus. 
Winan’s Memorabilia. 
Goodwin’s Greek Grammar. 
Hadley’s Greek Grammar. 
Liddell and Scott’s Greek Dictionary. 


Wheaton College 63 


GERMAN:— 
Goethe’s Hermann and Dorothea. (‘Thomas. ) 
Schiller’s Maria Stuart. (Miiller and Wenckebach. ) 
Goethe’s Iphigenie auf Taurus. (Eggert. ) 
Whitney’s German Dictionary. 

FrencH:— 
Chardenal’s Complete French Course. 
Super’s Le Conscrit. (Erckmann-Chatrian. ) 
Davies’ Scientific French Reader. 
Eggert’s Athalie. (Racine. ) 
Huss’ La Chute. (Hugo.) 
Gasc’s French Dictionary. 


THE ACADEMY. 


LaTiIn:— 
Tuell and Fowler’s First Book in Latin. 
Greenough, D’ Ooge and Daniell’s Second Year Latin. 
Kelsey’s Cicero. 
Scudder’s Sallust. 
Comstock’s Aeneid of Vergil. 
Bennett’s Latin Grammar. 
Daniell’s Prose Composition. 
Miller’s Ovid. 
GGREEK:— 
White’s First Greek Book. 
Goodwin’s Anabasis. 
Seymour’s Iliad. 
Jones’ Composition. 
Goodwin’s Greek Grammar. 
Hadley’s Greek Grammar. 
Liddell and Scott’s Greek Dictionary. 


64 Text-books 


GERMAN: — 


Fischer’s Essentials of German. 
Im Zwielicht. (Bernhardt. ) 
Schiller’s Wilhelm Tell. (Carruth. ) 


NaTurAL SciENCEs:— 


Jordan, Heath and Kellogg’s «* Animals.’’ 
Coulter’s Plant Studies. 
Hoadley’s Physics. 
Chute’s Physical Laboratory Manual. 
Guyot’s Physical Geography. 

ENGLIsH:— 
Straw’s Lessons in Expression, 
Kimball’s, The English Sentence. 
Buehler’s Practical Exercises in English, 
Shoemaker’s Advanced Elocution. 
Gardner, Kittredge and Arnold’s Principles of Composition. 
Riddle’s Modern Reader and Speaker. 


Painter’s American Literature. 
MATHEMATICs:— 


Taylor’s Elements of Algebra. 

Phillips and Fisher’s Elements of Geometry, (Abridged 
Edition. ) 

Baird’s Arithmetic. 


History anp Crvics:— 
Adams’ General History. 


Andrews’ New Manual of the Constitution. 
Fitch’s New Commercial Law. 


*UOIEINN91 JO DUTT UT $}TYUOD OU aIe d19Y} JeY DNs aq 0} Jed a11JUD ay} AOJ 2]Npayds Dy} I[NsUoD p[noys s}uepn3s ‘sarpnys Zul}d9198 UT 


| AUIOUOIISY 
pue urye'T 
Wau YAY A1j,ui10u BU] v9 X ASI 
Teoueyds 


A10j}SIF{ 


A1}OUIOI+) youny) 


(a8aT[oD) [319A (Auopesy ) wolNd0[y 


( 
Aijstm3ays soishq eiqes[y 


B2[0D) snjyneld 
SUIMVIC, ESor00 hosel 
64 WISTOI}L- JO eI} OT siseqeu 
ee Sie usisuye 9p 01291) =i 


NOISSINUALINI 


AB’T [eu0l} 
-njIjsuod pure 
worzeztyAT) 
yo A1O}SI}{ 


re 


(Amapeoy) (Aurapesy ) snjopolayy d1U0}9Y YY 


sprsied ueulies) agg JO 9991S 


SHSIOWHXH THdVHO 


COMMERCIAL STUDIES. 


(Auapeoy ) 
vied a (a8aq[oD) 
[eon1;og Rios e1qo3[y ese.) 


JUDUIeISIT, sishjeuy 
Weed) ystsuq 


Ayde1s09r (9891109) soisAud Arjow09 yoo A104SI{ 
jeorsdyg ueulidx) Rieinsniory reautiedy 6 Chaat: Iva rane jer0uas) AZoToyAS 


O01] 6 Wooy | g wWooy | Zs Wooy | 9 wooy | g WooYy | F Wooy | ¢ WooYy | Z WoOOY | { Woo | MoT] | 
| $$ oe eee eee 


Was.L TIVA WOA SASSWTIO AO ATINGHHOS 


n 
E 
a) 
=) 
H 
nN 
4 
= 
O 
o 
al 
= 


COM 


(9391105) 
Ida 


sisA[euy 
ystsuq 


Ayuerstyd 
JO s90ueplAy 


Mey 
[elo19 Ww WORD 


Arjstmay7) 


AZolorshyd 


ASBolO1g 


(Awepeoy) 
uvUliex A1}aUI09N4) 


(2801}09) (a891[0D) SUOISSI J 
soisAyd eviqas[Vy JO AlOjsIF{ 


(Awoproy) 
Awouoisy | wsioyWd VoR1OFT =| VlpIqeiowayy 
ystsuq 


NOISSINUALINI 


DINJVIIWT 
yst[sug youely reser) 


SHS(OMAXA THdVHO 


(Awopeoy uljye’| 9914) 
194 BIqos[y v9 XK 4SILy ere }SIL 


soisAyd snyno[ed 


satpose1y, 
Aivyuowlaly | [eyUuelapId 


O1991 49015) 


shessy 


A1OISIFT 
[e19us4) 


uol}NIO[W 


(ed91[0D) 
ueulley 


L wooyy | 9 WOO | § WOO0Yy | } WOOY | ¢ WOO | Z wWI00Yy 


Waal AHLNIA WwOA SHSSVTO AO AZINGHHOS 


SOMA 


{ wOo0yy 


0€°0! 
0£°6 
0€"s 
WV | 


mop 


sutA9AInG 


deuUyWYy $10}810 


[e]o19 Ww UWI0Z) Ginou si Yaoi 0e°e 
vow] answano | G2 | raion | wore | om | oma | As ec 
Db ae err) Tey stoqiei0 Wd 
a 
a NOISSINUALNI | oo'zs | 
see (GEES? | EERIE | meen a wit 
cnc eae ae ees | oo ce | ge os | et Ee ee 
z SHSIONAXA INdVHO _ | o€°08 | 
5 alte, Aurjog peimesu rena Pj dota ds 0£°6 
SES | Com” | aoa | 8 
ABop01g 1oWOH ficou One 


AleyuIule[ A ‘WY 


“Of 6 Wooy | g wWooy | £ WooYy | 9 WOOY | g WOOY | 7 WoOY | ¢ WooY | Z WoOY | { WooY | oP] 


Waal ONIdS wOdA SHSSVTD AO HINGHHOS 


BUSINESS DEPARTMENT 


The instruction in this department has been arranged for the 
purpose of developing the business capacity of the student. He 
enters upon a complete course of training, covering all the details of 
business from the simplest transaction to the most complex. 

The object is to prepare the student to use to the best advan- 
tage the means and opportunities within his reach, and to enable 
him to make an independent and honorable living. 

It is the aim not only to make bookkeepers and stenographers, 
but also to impart a knowledge of subjects related to the business 
world such as will furnish the student with that symmetrical educa- 
tion necessary for a successful commercial career. 


The Business Course 


Includes Bookkeeping, Penmanship, Commercial Arisumetic, 
Commercial Law, Business Correspondence, Spelling, Office Prac- 
tice, and Rapid Calculation. 

In Booxkeepinc the student is not confined to the Text-book, 
but Business Practice is so combined with it as to make the work a 
pleasure, and give the best idea of the way in which actual business 
is done and real books are kept. The student is required to make 
out various forms of commercial paper which would be used in the 
business in which he engages. He is furnished with College Cur- 
rency as capital, rents his store, opens an account with the College 
Bank, procures a stock of goods from the Wholesale House, pro- 


Wheaton College 69 


ceeds to fill orders which come through the College mail, conducts 
his correspondence, and so receives a valuable drill in writing busi- 
ness letters. 

He discounts notes and other paper received from his custom- 
ers at the bank, buys exchange, pays freight, and in fact performs 
all the transactions connected with the business. At the close of 
the set he is required to make out a full and complete statement 
which must exhibit his net gain or loss and his present worth. 

Business OrricE DeparTMENT. After the student has be- 
come thoroughly acquainted with all the books essential to different 
classes of business, he is advanced to the Business Office Depart- 
ment, which includes a College Bank, Wholesale House, and Mer- 
chants’ Emporium. 

Tue Co.vece Bank receives deposits, discounts paper, issues 
certificates of deposit, and makes collections, etc., as an actual bank 
would do. 

The student performs in order the duties of Paying Teller, 
Receiving Teller, Bookkeeper, and Cashier. 

WuotesaLtE House. Here the student in his first work 
makes his purchases, and later is advanced to the position of book- 
keeper and cashier in due order. Here is to be found all the mer- 
chandise needed for carrying on a wholesale business. Journal, 
cash book, sales book, purchase book, bill book, and ledger are 
used in this office. 

Tue Mercuants’ Emporium is for the transaction of busi. 
ness which does not properly belong to the other offices, 

Business ARITHMETIC. It is very necessary that the account- 
ant should be able to use figures in a quick and accurate manner. 
If there is any one thing that the bookkeeper must possess, it is the 
ability to perform calculations rapidly. Special attention is paid 


70 Business Department 


to the arithmetical operations constantly employed in business; such 
as addition, multiplication, and division; and much time is devoted 
to a drill in a variety of short methods. 

PenmansHip. ‘The value of rapid and legible handwriting 
cannot be overestimated. ‘The applicant for a position as book- 
keeper or clerk will find his penmanship either his best or poorest 
recommendation. If he is a good penman his application will re- 
ceive attention, but if he is a poor writer it will be consigned to the 
waste basket. Students in all departments of commercial work 
receive one hour’s instruétion daily in practical penmanship. 

CorRESPONDENCE is closely connected with Penmanship, and 
in this the student is instructed in the form and composition of busi- 
ness letters, and required to submit his work to the teacher for 
inspection and correction. : 

CommerciaL Law. It is essential that all persons expecting 
to be connected with business affairs should have a fair knowledge 
of Commercial Law. A knowledge of this one branch might save 
a student, in a single transaction, the entire cost of his business 
education. 

The student is required to write up the various forms of legal 
documents. 


The Shorthand Course 


Includes not only the theory and practice of Shorthand, but 
likewise Penmanship, Typewriting, Punctuation, Spelling, Corre- 
spondence, and Manifolding. 

In StrenocrapHy the student is taught the principles of Short- 
hand, and immediately applies the same by writing simple words 
arranged in sentences and letters so that the work is made very 
interesting from the start. His vocabulary is being constantly en- 


Wheaton College 71 


larged by the use of new matter, and his speed gradually increased. 
The letters and other matter used for dictation are, as far as possible, 
taken directly from aétual business correspondence, thus giving the 
student a thorough drill in business phraseology. 

Tyrewritinc. ‘The student is required to practice daily on 
the typewriter, and his work is examined, corrected, and returned 
io be re-written. Many stenographers fail simply from their ina- 
bility to write a neat and correct letter on the machine, and there- 
fore particular stress is given to this matter. ‘The business man 
does not inquire what system of shorthand his stenographer employs, 
but he does desire his letters to be properly arranged, rightly 
spelled, and correctly punctuated. 

The machine used is the Remington. 

PENMANSHIP AND CORRESPONDENCE. All students in Short- 
hand do the same work in Penmanship and Correspondence as 
those in the Bookkeeping Course. 


Combined Course 


Students desiring the best possible preparation for business 
should combine the Business and Shorthand Courses. A person 
understanding Stenography and Typewriting, and having a fair 
knowledge of Bookkeeping, has his chances for a good position 
greatly enhanced. In this event he can accept a situation either as 
bookkeeper or stenographer, or, as occurs very frequently, he can 
fill a position requiring the qualifications of both. Many firms have 
not sufficient work to require the full services of a bookkeeper, and 
it is necessary that the person employed to do this work also attend 
to the correspondence. ‘This brings the employee in closer touch 
with, and increases his value to the employer, thus affording him a 
better salary than if he performed but one kind of service. 


72 Business Department 


Diplomas 


Diplomas are granted to the graduates from the Business and 
Shorthand Courses, 


Admission 

While no examinations for admission to the Business College 
are required, a common school education is essential to the student’s 
rapid advancement. Students deficient in the common branches 
may pursue such of them as are taught in the Academy at a slight 
additional expense. 


THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC 


Branches Taught 


Piano, Pipe Organ, Voice Culture, Chorus Singing, Harmony, 
Counterpoint, Canon, Fugue, Musical Form, Musical History. 


Piano 


All students of the Piano are required to pursue the most 
thorough modern technical system of training practicable, special 
attention being given to hand formation, the cultivation of touch, 
interpretation, and correct musical taste. 

Beginners and those not far advanced are especially welcome, 
as they possess few or none of the erroneous ideas and bad habits 
which are so easily formed from incorrect teaching or by careless 
practice, and which prove in many cases, almost insurmountable 
obstacles to high cultivation. They therefore receive more readily 
the correct fundamental principles, and can, as a rule, make steady 
and rapid progress, uninterrupted by the tedious process of uz/earn- 
ing bad habits which retards the advancement of those less fortunate. 

Selections are made from the following works, which embrace 
all styles and schools of composition: 

KGhler op. 190, 157; Burgmueller op. 100; Berens op. 79; 
Loeschhorn op. 65, 66, 67; Duvernoy op. 120; Gurlitt op. 80, 
82; Heller op. 16, 45, 46, 47; Schmitt op. 16; Bertini op. 29, 
32, 100; Krause op. 2; Haberbier, Etudes Poesies op. 53; Pacher 
Octaves op. 11; Kullak Octave School; Speidel Octaves op. 18; 


74 Conservatory of Music 


Vogt, Octave studies; Léw, Octave studies; Cramer Etudes; 
Clementi’s Gradus ad Parnassum; Jensen op. 32; Moscheles op. 
70; Nicodé Etudes; MacDowell Etudes; Bach’s Lighter Compo- 
sitions; two and three part Inventions, Preludes and Fugues; 
Sonatas and pieces by Beethoven, Brahms, Chopin, Weber, Hadyn, 
Mozart, Schubert, Schumann, Liszt, Mendelssohn, Scharwenka, 
Moskowski, Raff, Kwast, Grieg, Gade, Noskoski, Brassin, rlen- 
selt, Godard, Wilm, Tschaikowsky, Paderewski, and others. 


Pipe Organ 

Every year there is a growing demand for good organists in 
both church and concert work, and the standard of cultivation 
attainable is becoming higher, on account of the improved methods 
of modern times and more developed art of training. 

There is in the chapel a fine two-manual organ on which 
lessons are given and on which pupils may practise. The plan of 
work provides for a thorough schooling in all that pertains to a 
mastery of the instrument, and includes a seleétion from the follow- 
ing studies, as well as pieces by old and modern masters: 

Becker op. 30; Schneider op. 48, 67; Chadwick, Pedal 
studies; Hesse op. 30; Thomas op. 2, 10; Merkel op. 182; 
Reimann op. 8; De Lange, Pedal studies; Dudley Buck, Pedal- 
phrasing studies; Kretchmar op. 8; Rheinberger Trios; Albrechts- 
berger Trios; Rebbeling Grosse Pedal Etude, etc. 


Voice Culture 


The voice is a delicate instrument which responds gladly and 
easily to the emotions if other parts of the mechanism are taught 
not to intrude themselves. 

To rightly locate the difficulties and correct the wrong habits 
formed is the first care of the vocal teacher. 


Wheaton College 75 


The time required for this work depends upon the condit.on 
and ability of the pupil presenting himself for work. 

Careful oversight in physical development, breathing, and in 
placing of tones is exercised and followed by thorough drill in 
interpretation of simple English songs and the simpler vocalises. 
The Academy students are required to take special drill in 
vocal class work. 


Orpheus Club 

Advanced pupils are admitted to membership in the Orpheus 
Club, an organization which has given some of the best oratorios, 
cantatas and choruses by such composers as Handel, Haydn, Men- 
delssohn, Stainer, Barnby, Goring-Thomas, Dudley Buck, and 
Coleridge-Taylor. 

Pupils not having had at least a High School training are 
advised to take up special work in the College classes, as a mind 
trained to think carefully is absolutely necessary to enable one to 
understand and rightly interpret the best music, 


Harmony and Counterpoint 

Harmony is as necessary to a music student as grammar and 
rhetoric are to a literary student. Jt not only gives him an insight 
into the structure of composition, but also helps considerably in the 
reading and intelligent interpretation of music. 

Instruction in Harmony is given in class, but it, as well as the 
more advanced subjects af Counterpoint and Form, may also be 
studied in private lessons by students wishing to acquire more 
thoroughly the technique of composition. 

Four terms of Harmony are required by graduates in Piano or 
Organ, and three terms of Counterpoint by graduates in Organ. 


76 Conservatory of Music 


History of Music 


The study of Musical History is a fascinating one, and can 
hardly be dispensed with by any earnest student of music. It gives 
additional interest to the interpretation of the works of the compos- 
ers to know something of their lives and circumstances, and of the 
developemnt of the art itself. 

Three terms of Musical History are required by graduates in 
Piano or Organ. 


Recitals 


All Conservatory students are expetted to attend recitals. 
Pupils who are considered competent to appear in public are 
allowed to do so at the pupils’ recitals which are given from time to 
time, in order to accustom the student to public performance, and 
impart self-control and ease upon the platform, 

The proximity of Wheaton to Chicago gives the pupils the 
advantage of hearing the best musicians in opera, oratorio, and 
concert performances. 


Practice 


Connected with the Conservatory are practice rooms, each 
containing an excellent piano, and these, as well as the two-manual 
organ in the chapel, may be used by pupils at reasonable rates. 


Music 


The music that pupils require from time to time will be sup. 
plied by the teachers at a discount, the bills being payable once a 
month, or as may be otherwise arranged. 


Wheaton College 77 


Certificates 
Pupils who have done part of the work to the satisfaction of 


the teacher will be granted a certificate. 


Diplomas 


Candidates for graduation from any course in the Conserva- 
tory must have studied in this Institution at least one year. 

Graduates in Piano must have also had four terms of Harmony 
and three terms of Musical History. 

Graduates in Organ must have had, besides the above, at least 
six terms of Piano and three terms of Counterpoint. 

Graduates from the Vocal department are required to take 
three years of advanced work in German, French, and Italian 
compositions, including songs and sele¢tions from operas and orator- 
ios, with work in sight-reading, theory, musical histoy, harmony, 
and one year of piano. 


General Regulations 


Conservatory students are subject to the same general regula- 
tions as other students of the College (see pages 18 and 19). 

Tuition is payable strictly in advance. Lessons lost through 
sickness will be made up upon application, during the same term, 
or in case of protracted illness, the loss will be shared with the 
pupil. Lessons falling on National Holidays are not counted out. 

No deduction will be made to regular pupils missing the first 
or last week of any term. 

No deductions will be made for missing class lessons. 

In the examinations in Harmony and History, a grade of 70 
is required to pass. 


ART DEPARTMENT 


It is the object of the Art Department to present a thorough 
and comprehensive course to those students who desire to enter ser- 
iously upon the work, and to forward their study along the lines of 
the best art schools of the country. Every effort is made to meet 
the individual needs and wishes of those who enter the department, 
and special courses are arranged for those who so desire. 

A course of art study covering one school year has been 
arranged which will entitle the student to three full credits in college 
or academic courses. During the fall term any student spending 
two hours a day in practical work in the studio and carrying also 
the study of Art History will be entitled to one full credit, and this 
course can be substituted, if desired, for any other elective study. 
Also during the winter and spring terms any student spending the 
required two hours in practical studio work, and carrying also the 
study of Artistic Anatomy, will be entitled to two full credits, one 
for each term. ‘This also can, if desired, be substituted for any 
other elective study. The course in mechanical drawing covers 
two terms, and if three hours a day are given to the work, two 
credits are given. 

At the close of the spring term a six weeks summer school 
will begin during which the studio will be open for classes from 
eight to twelve o’clock every morning except Saturday. All the 
branches given in the list will be taught with the addition of a nor-~ 
mal course especially arranged for the benefit of teachers in public 
schools or those preparing to hold such positions. 


Rachel L. Beith, ¢/ 
Georgiana Brown, /it 


J. B. Cook, c/ 


STUDENTS 


THE COLLEGE 


nw 


SENIOR CLASS 
Elburn, Il. 
St. Louis, Mo. 
Chicago, Ill. 


William Henry Carl Ebeling, ¢/ Detroit, Mich. 


George G. Morgan, sc 
S. Hugh Paine, c/ 
James E. Phillips, c/ 
Walter I. Phillips, sc 


Wheaton, IIl. 
Rives Junction, Mich. 
Wheaton, IIl. 
Wheaton, III. 


Howard P. Pinkney, se Sterling, Il. 


Clara M. Safford, “it 
H. Allen Steven, sc 
Will W. Swink, ¢/ 
Ralph L. Wheaton, sc 
L. B. Wood, sc 


Edith B. Anderson, /it 
Lester W. Bartlett, c/ 
John H. Breyer, sc 
Arthur J. Clark, ¢/ 

S. W. Dixon, ¢/ 


Chicago, IIl. 
Wheaton, III. 
Chicago, Ill. 
Wheaton, IIl. 
Wheaton, II. 


JUNIOR CLASS 
Winnebago, Ill. 
Elburn, Il. 
Hinsdale, IIl. 
New Windsor, IIl. 
Vienna, S, Dak. 


80 Wheaton College 


M. Pearl Dorr, ¢/ 

Alfred H. Fischer, ¢/ 
Charles A. Fischer, c/ 
M. Wilfreda Fischer, c/ 
Fred M. Handy, sc 
Herbert A. Hoisington, s 
Cora W. Kimball, ¢/ 
Roy J. Snell, Zit 

J. U. Selwyn Toms, ¢/ 


SOPHOMORE CLASS 


Georgia Allen, /it 
Mina Beach, sc 

Ernest G. Beckwith, se 
W. C. Cooper, sc 
Sadie Dixon, /t 

James Kent Eaton, ¢/ 
Genevra Forsythe, sc 
Wm. J. Longley, sc 
Madge Montgomery, “it 
Florence E. Murray, ¢/ 
Charles R. Murray, c/ 
Alvin A. Smidt, ¢/ 
Charles C. Steck, sc 
Ralph E. Vennum, sc 
Mamie H. White, ¢/ 


FRESHMAN CLASS 


Lulu Ames, s¢ 
Edwin J. Bartells, sc 
George C. Bartells, sc 


Berwyn, Ill. 
Elmhurst, Ill. 
Wheaton, IIl. 
Wheaton, Ill. 

Downer’s Grove, Ill. 
Kishwaukee, IIl. 

Miles, Iowa. 
Sycamore, Ill. 
Wheaton, Ill. 


Chicago, Ill. 
Winnebago, Ill. 
Rockefeller, Ill. 

Sumner, Il. 

Vienna, S. Dak. 
Rochester, Wis. 
Wheaton, IIl. 
Oak Park, Iil. 
Bloomington, Ill. 
Joliet, Il. 

Joliet, Hl. 
Chicago, Ill. 
Aurora, Ill. 
Morrison, IIl. 
Indianapolis, Ind. 


Prarie View, Ill. 
Camp Point, IIl. 
Camp Point, Ill. 


Students Si 


C. W. Bedford, sc Galesburg, Ill. 
Ivy L. Burke, “i Shabbona, Ill. 
D. Maurice Cook, ¢/ Chicago, Ill. 
Alice Compton, s¢ Wheaton, III. 
Amos Dresser, ¢/ Chicago, Ill. 
Will A. Dunn, sc South Haven, Mich. 
Robert K. Macklin, s¢ Waterman, Ill. 
Mabel MacNees, /it Richland Centre, Wis. 
Marietta C. Maris, c/ Guthrie Center Iowa. 
Walter C. Redeker, sc Elgin, Ill. 
Daisy M. Sherwood, /it Shabbona, II]. 
H. E. Vaughan, sc Batavia, III. 
Joseph R. Walker, sc Waterman, Ill. 
Evelyn B. Winbolt, /it Wheaton, III. 
Estella M. Woolfenden, /it Wheaton, IIl. 


THE ACADEMY 


—_—— 


FOURTH YEAR CLASS 


Earl W. Benson, /t Malta, IIl. 
Wendell S. Brooks, ¢/ Wheaton, III. 
Elwood Brown, sc Chicago, Il. 
Bessie A. Cooper, /it Glenn Ellyn, Ill. 
Nellie A. Emerson, c¢/ Elburn, III. 
Ernest B. Fischer, c/ Wheaton, III. 
George H. Fischer, sc Addison, III. 
Mary L. Fischer, sc Addison, Ill. 
Maude S. Galusha, sc Warrenville, IIl. 
Homer L. Hoisington, s¢ Kishwaukee, III. 
Stella Hurd, Stlllman Valley, Ill. 


Mamie V. Jenks, c/ Wheaton, IIl, 


82 Wheaton College 


Albert B. Kellogg, ¢/ Wheaton, Il. 
Geraldine C. Kellogg, ¢/ Wheaton, Ill. 
Dell J. Lanan, /it Kingston, Ill. . 
Magnus Mainland, sc Racine, Wis. 
Bernice Scoggin, /it Millington, Il. 
George M. Smith, sc Wheaton, Ili. 
Nellie L. Straw, Zit Wheaton, III. 
Olive S. Ware, sc Wheaton, Ill. 
Leon H. Wheeler, sc - Geneva, II]. 
THIRD YEAR CLASS 
Clarence J. Agnew, sc Stillman Valley, Ill. 
Nettie M. Anthony, // Joliet, Ill. 
Jennie C. Blanchard, c/ Wheaton, IIl. 
Ethel M. Cook, ¢/ Chicago, Ill. 
Julia M. Crull, / Seward, IIl. 
Carroll A. Dudley, s¢ Wheaton, Ill. 
Charles W. Ells, sc Elkhorn, Wis. 
Edward G. Fischer, ¢/ Wheaton, IIl. 
Bessie M. Hyde, se Rollo, Hl. 
Frank James, ¢/ Greenville, Mich. 
Herman H. Jenks, sc Wheaton, III. 
Nora E. Kenndy, /it Wheaton, IIl. 
Zella M. Mackay, Jit Mt. Carroll, Il. 
James Mainland, sc Racine, Ill. 
Helen M. Nelson, //t Glenn Ellyn, Ill. 
Charles Perrin, sc Wyanet, Ill. 
William K. Reath, Vulcan, Mich. 


SECOND YEAR CLASS 
Dayse E. Adamy, Jit Sayre, Pa. 


Georgia A. Beatty, 
Fred R. Beum, se 
Mildred Blanchard, ¢/ 
Harry N. Brooks, se 
Ralph B. Cobb, sc 
Lyman J. Cook, ¢/ 
Marguerite Dresser, ¢/ 
Florence M. Fay, “it 
Harriet E. Ferris, //t 
Arvin Fischer, sc 
Grace G. Galusha, “it 
Edward Greenberg, s¢ 
Eva A. Jones, /it 
Lora I. Jones, Zi 
Louise Neddermeyer, /# 
Louise D. Powis, /it 
Adna F. Pratt, Zt 
Chas. Sexton, s¢ 

E. L. Steck, sc 
Blanche Smith, /t 
Eva G. Ware, /it 
John Woodbridge, sc 
Chas. E. Zahn, sc 


FIRST YEAR CLASS 


_ Leo E. Barthaums, 
Helen Beckwith, 
Mabel Beckwith, 
Helen G. Cook, 
Osmere E. Cook, 


Students 


83 


Wheaton, III. 
Tekamah, Neb. 
Wheaton, II. 
Wheaton, III. 


River Forest, Ill. 


Chicago, Il. 
Chicago, Ill. 
Princeton, II]. 
Wheaton, IIl. 
Addison, III. 
Warrenville, Il. 
Racine, Wis. 
Myrtle, Ill. 
Myrtle, Il. 


Bloomington, III. 


Wayne, IIl. 
Chicago, Iil. 
Wheaton, III. 

Aurora, II]. 

Belle Plain, Ill. 
Wheaton, IIl. 

Aurora, IIl. 

Racine, Wis. 


Wheaton, IIl. 
Rockefeller, Ill. 
Rockefeller, Ill. 

Chicago, Ill. 

Oconto, Wis. 


84 Wheaton College 


Anna M. Eitelgoerge, 
Verna Essery, 
Pauline Fisher, 
May Hayes, 

Ira J. Jenks, 

Carrie A. Kennedy, 
John G. Lohr, 
Katherine Madsen, 
Alice Newgard, 
Lillian Schell, 
Larman L. Smith, 
Walter A. Straw, 
Lloyd G. Street, 
Minnie Swan, 

F. R. Tetrick, 
Fred G. W. Toms, 
W. E. Thomas, 
Grace Wetzel, 
Lillian Whiteside, 
Arthur C. Wright, 


Marie L. Anderberg, 
Lillie E. Anderson, 
Sophia Berklund, 

A. Hadley Bingham, 
Jessie A. Coleman, 
Seymour G. Coleman, 
Lewis Cromer, 

Zeno French, 


Rome, Ind. 
Melrose Park, Ill. 
Oak Park, Ill. 
Holcomb, Ill. 
Wheaton, Ill. 
Wheaton, Ill. 
Hartford, Wis. 
Chicago, III. 
Wheaton, Ill. 
Polo, Il. 
Wheaton, Ill. 
Wheaton, Ill. 
Harvey, Il. 
Wheaton, Ill. 
Wheaton, Ill. 
Hanging Rock, O. 
Big Rock, Ill. 
Wheaton, II. 
Wheaton, III. 
Erie, Il. 


ENGLISH CLASS 


St. Paul, Minn. 
Chicago, IIl. 
Wheaton, III. 
St. Thomas, Pa. 
Naperville, Ill. 
Warrenville, Ill. 
Aurora, Ill. 
Wheaton, Ill. 


Students 85 


P. A. Franco, Chicago, Ill. 
Gertrude Hemenway, Bloomingdale, III. 
Rhea Houston, Wheaton, III. 
Zada A. Hills, Lombard, Ill. 
Samuel Kellogg, Wheaton, II. 
Fae L. LaGrange, Storm Lake, Iowa. 
William Parker, Wheaton, III. 
C. J. Plum, Wheaton, IIl. 
Etta Triplett, Naperville, Ill. 
Agnes Weisbrock, Wheaton, Ill. 
Henrietta Wright, Chicago, Ill. 
SPECIAL 
Mildred Ferris, Wheaton, III. 
Edna V. Fletcher, Wayne, Ill. 
James Knox, Clark, S. Dak. 
Edith J. Naden, Newark, Ill. 
Lillian Redeker, Elgin, Ill. 
John Weiganr, Buda, Ill. 
BUSINESS DEPARTMENT 
Lulu Ames, 2 Wheaton, II. 
Nettie M. Anthony, s Joliet, iit, 
Raymond E. Austin, 4 Wheaton, Il. 
Mamie P. Baker, s Streator, I]l. 
Edgar Bancroft, 4 Wheaton, III. 
Grace Bancroft, 4 5 Naperville, Ill. 
Lea Bennett, s Wheaton, IIl. 
Byron Brecunier, 4 Franklin Grove, Ili. 
Max Burckal, 4 Wheaton, Il. 


Francis Coleman, 4 | Wayne, Ill. 


86 Wheaton College 


Jessie Colman, p Warrenville, Ill. 
Seymour Colman, p Warrenville, Ill. 
Julius Corder, 4 Glenn Ellyn, IIl. 
James Christie, 4 Wheaton, Ill. 
Alice Compton, 4 Wheaton, II. 
Eliza Campbell, s Wheaton, Ill. 
Edna Creager, 4 s West Chicago, IIl. 
William Deacon, 4 Sandwich, Ill, 
Harlan Fletcher, 4 Wayne, Ill. 
Arthur Guild, 2 Wheaton, IIl. 
Eva Hayes, 4 Holcomb, Ill. 
Blaine Hussey, 4 Franklin Grove, Ill. 
Stella M. Hurd, p Stillman Valley, Ill. 
Eunice Kingsbury, Kishwaukee, III. 
James Knox, ¢ Clark, S. Dak. 
Dell J. Lanan, p Kingston, Ill. 
George Mack, 4 Winfield, Ill. 
Oscar Nelson, 4 Geneva, IIl. 
Castle Nichols, s Wheaton, III. 
Leslie O’ Connor, s Batavia, Ill. 
William Parker, 4 | Wheaton, II. 
LeRoy Proctor, s Rockefeller, Il. 
Eddie Plass, 2 s Swift, Ill. 
Dale Skinner, s Miles, Towa. 
Roy Skinner, s Miles, Iowa. 
Clayton Smith, s Wayne, IIl. 
Percy M. Spofford, 4 Wheaton, II. 
William Thomas, p Sugar Grove, Ill. 
Roy Vallette, 4 Wheaton, III. 


Bessie Vergie, s West Chicago, Ill. 


Students 87 


W. S. Wilson, 4 Sugar Grove, Ill. 
Arthur C. Wright, s Erie, Hl, 
Lloyd Wetzel, 4 Wheaton, IIl. 
Linus Wybert, 4 Bynumvyille, Mo. 


Reference: p, Penmanship; b, Book-keeping; s, Stenography; t, Typewriting. 


CONSERVATORY 


—_ 


INSTRUMENTAL DEPARTMENT 


Georgia Beatty, p 
Clara L. Blanchard, o 
Carroll Dudley, p 
Adell de Grasse, p bar 
Nellie Emerson, ar 
Harriet Fischer, p 
Catherine French, p 
Arthur Grove, p 

Daisy M. Higgins, p 
Cora Kimball, p 

Fae LaGrange, 0 
Gertrude Loveless, o 
Mabel MacNees, p har 
Grace Mills, p 
Amanda Myers, p 

Eva Nelson, p 

Martha Overhart, p 
Vivian Reber, 

Lillian L. Redeker, p ar 
Hattie Stark, p 

J. U. Selwyn Toms, p 


Wheaton, I]. 
Wheaton, IIl. 
Wheaton, IIl. 
Wheaton, II]. 

Elburn, IIl. 
Wheaton, IIl. 
Wheaton, III. 
Wheaton, Ill. 
Wheaton, IIl. 
Miles, Iowa. 


Storm Lake, Iowa. 


Wheaton, Ill. 


Richland Center, Wis. 


Wheaton, III. 
Wheaton, Il. 
Racine, Wis. 
Wheaton, Ill. 
Wheaton, II]. 

Elgin, Ill. 
Wheaton, II]. 
Wheaton, Ill. 


88 Wheaton College 


Lester Weaver, p 
May Webster, p 


Agnes E. Wiesbrock, p har 
Reference: p, Piano; 0, Organ; har, Harmony. 


Wheaton, III. 
Wheaton, Ill. 
Wheaton, III. 


VOCAL DEPARTMENT 


PRIVATE PUPILS 
Mrs. A. E. Bartholomew, 


Grace E. Cook, 
Lyman Cook, 

Mrs. Bertha S. Ferry, 
Chas. A. Fischer, 
Wilfreda Fischer, 
Madaline Gallagher, 
Mrs. A, C. Harris, 
Zada A. Hills, 
Mrs. W. V. Hoff, 
Nellie Holman, 
Jessie Lockman, 
Mabel MacNees, 
Mrs. J. M. Maury, 
Edith J. Naden, 
Hannah Parsons, 
Louise Powis, 
Bernice Scoggin, 

R. B. Skinner, 

A. A. Smidt, 

Mrs. Helen R. Stough, 
J. U. S. Toms, 


Wheaton, Ill. 
Chicago, IIl. 
Chicago, III. 
Wheaton, Ill. 
Wheaton, Ill. 
Wheaton, Ill. 
Wheaton, Ill. 
Wheaton, III. 
Lombard, II]. 
Wheaton, Ill. 
Humboldt, Neb. 
Wheaton, Ill. 
Richland Center, Wis. 
Wheaton, II]. 
Millington, Ill. 
Wheaton, Ill. 
Wayne, Ill. 
Millington, IIl. 
Miies, lowa. 
Chicago, Ill. 
Wheaton, Ill, 

Wheaton, IIl. 


Students 89 


Mrs. Mary A. Vernon, Wheaton, Ill. 
Mrs. G. E. Wood, Wheaton, Ill. 


ORPHEUS CLUB 


Dayse Adamy, 
Georgia Allen, 

L. W, Bartlett, 
Georgia R. Beatty, 
C. W. Bedford, 
Francis Colman, 
Ethel Cook, 

D. M. Cook, 

2 1 B.eCook, 


Marguerite F. Dresser, 


C. W. Ells, 
Mildred Ferris, 
C. A. Fischer, 
Edna Fletcher, 
Florence French, 
Geraldine Kellogg, 
T. P. Kellogg, 
Cora Kimball, 
William Longley, 
C. R. Murray, 
Florence Murray, 
Chas. Perrin, 
Walter I. Phillips, 
Lillian Redeker, 

J. U. S. Toms, 
R. E. Vennum, 


Sayre, Pa. 
Chicago, Ill. 
Elburn, Ill. 
Wheaton, Ill. 
Galesburg, Ill. 
Wayne, Iil. 
Chicago, III. 
Chicago, Ill. 
Chicago, Ill. 
Chicago, Ill. 
Elkhorn, Wis. 
Wheaton, II]. 
Wheaton, Ill. 
Wayne, IIl. 
Wheaton, Ill. 
Wheaton, Ill. 
Wheaton, Ill. 
Miles, Iowa. 
Oak Park, III. 
Joliet, Il. 
Joliet, Ill. 
Wyanette, Ill. 
Wheaton, Ill. 
Elgin, Ill. 
Wheaton, II]. 
Morrison, Ill. 


gO Wheaton College 


Olive Ware, - Wheaton, Ill. 
Evelyn Winbolt, Wheaton, Ill. 


——— 


ART DEPARTMENT 


Esther Ames, Wheaton, Ill. 
Mabel Beckwith, Rockefeller, Il. 
Sophia Berklund, Wheaton, III. 
Jessie Coleman, Warrenville, Ill. 
Mrs. W. E. Dunbar, Wheaton, III. 
Verna Essery, Melrose Park, III. 
Rena Fleming, Wheaton, IIl. 
Gretchen French, Wheaton, IIl. 
Mrs. A. C. Harris, Wheaton, Ill. 
May Hayes, Holcomb, Iil. 
Mrs. L. L. Hiatt, Wheaton, Ill. 
Nellie Holman, Humbolt, Neb. 
Madaline Hopkins, Wheaton, Ill. 
Mamie Jenks, Wheaton, III. 
Lora Jones, Myrtle, Ill. 
Caroline Kennedy, Wheaton, Il. 
Walter Lyon, Wheaton, IIl. 
James Mainland, Racine, Ill. 
Ethel R. McKee, Warren, Ohio. 
Margaret McKenzie, Wheaton, IIl. 
Clara Moorman, Birmingham, Ala. 
Caroline Northrup, Wheaton, IIl. 
Mrs. B. F. ‘Taylor, Wheaton, Ill. 
Bina Tousley, Wheaton, Ill. 


Mae Rae Wetzell, Wheaton, III. 


Students gI 


Evelyn Winbolt, Wheaton, III. 
L. B. Wood, Wheaton, Ill. 
BLACKBOARD CLASS 
Helen Cook. Louise Nettemeyer. 

Pauline Fischer. Lillian Schell. 
May Hayes. Larmon Smith. 
Gertrude Hemenway. Lloyd Street. 
Ira Jenks. Fred Toms. 
James Mainland. Grace Wetzell. 


Alice Newguard. Arthur Wright. 


92 Wheaton College 


SUMMARY OF ATTENDANCE 


THE CoLiLEeGE 


DCMIOTS wie sss « MR Ee SO b's Cis ales o's 14 
POINGIB SS: =<. si: OMA. SANE Rs pekinese 14 
Sophomores Slaw Pe Sets i ove ae 15 
Fieshmen 5..." 7 geet. Sana ns 5) 5 > bape 18 


61 


THe ACADEMY 


MeRnth (Picat a Aas FS, Reo oe eR Rte ae a ee Rae 21 
Shit sh eer AGES coe cts Bile pian Seine paeee 17 
Recrnd (Year solass ous 2 erascuus te Ae es 24 
BSCR PAL A aS oie Sas ips eee 25 
ppecial Htncents..'.. Sli. ks sas Ve eile wee eee 6 
PED SlISD DCHOOL 2... psn aha es coo, & aes ew 19 


Total 


eeeeseeeseeseeeveeeeeeeveeeeeeevpeee s 


ececeoesveeweeveeseeeeeeeeeweeeveeeete 


eeeeevoeeeeeeeeeeeretsteeeeveeseeereeeeeeeeeeesee 


*oseoeoeveoce#eeeeeewnrersteeeeee 


INDEX 


—— 


nS ae a Ae eae 43 
Admission, Academy...... 43 
Admission, College ....... 20 
Preasepartiient oo, , << ry be! 
Bie mie sete pc ko oN ns Al, 57 
LIT AAS ik og 15 
MG RER ue oii ee eos 61-64 
PRUNE ee chek sub hk a 7 
Business Department. ..15, 68 
REPIOI AEN BY cess pc ahs wc 2 
Commercial Department... .68 
Commercial Law...... 57» 70 
CEOUSEEVELODV: oS Sk Oe ee es 73 


Courses of Study, Academy , 44 
Courses of Study, College . . 26 
Courses of Study, Missionary , 60 
Curricula, Academy....44-50 


Curricula, College ..... 26-29 
Rrra Meee ee era wise + % oP8 pe 22 
BPG ONS Poe eer Ce Nae, 7 
MMAIIOM at ls ath sets 54 
English mon elane nea ea 3 8, 54-5 5 
Ss UALS OR AES nana 13 
Braminations ooo. oc... 20 
us tal SO ee 14-16 
High ae a 4. 
Pemowet cn rersusysce was, ss 14-16 
|b y Ted PA 8 RRO A 41 
Sip Sate 1 ACs ieee ok 40, 52 
Sr eR ee i ees 17 
RU OPOIAISOD Ca Se ase 22—23 
Net SG Oe are 40, §1 


Gymnasium, , 0.2.65... 8, 10 
Laboratories: y5 iy ee 8 
Latin 6 Oke a Uuel Cr eh eheteter erie 39 ’ 5 I 
Lecture est oa aanres: 9 
Librariesr ce een 9 
Location: © ays Saleen ae 6 
Mathematics ,........ 3786 
MusIG Sheer are 15, 73 
(Orde cs emma ltl ypc Pee Sh 74 
Painting ar stele oo buenerar stowette 15,79 
Philosophy oo veaie i ciate 32 
Physical Cultures aac 10 
Piatto oc ah Ca coe mae 73 
Program's) co 95 eta 65-67 
Railroad Connections, ..... 7 
Reliptous Lite 5 hres ere 11 
Remodeling ...... Comeagabe 12 
Roomaniisi< oe taneeeaes 13 


Schedule of Recitations . .65—67 


Scholarships ...14, 16-18, 58 
Sciences, Natural, ..34-36, 52 
Self Help oe Or en ene 13 
ghorthand ra cues rents 70 
Societies PS a eis canteen 10 
Special Student noma ae 22 
Studies, Academy......... 51 
Studies, Colleen or oor ae 32 
SUPERVISION tater a ein aches 18 
Text-Books, ...... 17, 61-64 
rusted ey ae nain snes 3 
Ty pewiting ce pene estas 71 


Voice Cukarev toro oe 74 


A 


2a 


ie LE SE 


ai 


5 
\ 


- 


eee 


pe aT 


ee eed, 


194373 


WMA 


un 


——_—_—_—— 
eS 
—— 
= 
—_—_———_ 
SSS 
——— 
—— 
SS 
————_—————_ 
——— 
———— 
es 
— 
=—————_ 
a 
————_ 
—————_ 
eee 


