DOCUMENT_ID: woods1885
TITLE (as printed): History of Andover Theological Seminary
AUTHOR: Leonard Woods, D.D. (First Abbot Professor of Christian Theology)
DATE: 1885
LANGUAGE: en
SOURCE URL: https://archive.org/details/historyofandover00woodrich
EDITION: Boston: James R. Osgood and Company, 1885. Digitized by Internet Archive.
TRANSCRIPTION METHOD: Internet Archive OCR (djvu), fetched verbatim via curl, uncorrected
WORD COUNT (approx): 245000
NOTE: Woods was the Seminary's first professor and an eyewitness/participant in its founding.
This history reprints, in a documentary appendix, the full text of the 1808 "Constitution
of the Theological Seminary" (the original Phillips/Abbot foundation deed) and the 1808
"Additional Statutes" of the Associate Founders (Bartlet, Brown, Norris), which contain the
full text of the Associate Creed. These appendix documents are treated as PRIMARY (they are
verbatim reprints of the 1808 constitutional instruments, not paraphrase). Woods's own
narrative chapters are SECONDARY. Page numbers below are the printed page numbers visible in
the OCR (running heads / page-break page numbers), not inserted markers.
OCR QUALITY: Good (clean 19th-century typeface, Internet Archive OCR); spot-checked, low
error rate on prose; degrades only within occasional wide-tracked title lines.
=====BEGIN TRANSCRIPTION=====
HISTORY 


ANDOVERTHEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY 


BY 


THE   REV.  LEONARD  WOODS,  D.D. 

FIRST   ABBOT    PROFESSOR   OF   CHRISTIAN   THEOLOGY 


BOSTON 
JAMES   R.    OSGOOD   AND   COMPANY 

1885 


AsvWl 


Copyright,   1884, 
BY  GEORGE  S.  BAKER. 


All  rights  reserved 


EDITOR'S    PREFACE. 


MY  venerated  grandfather,  the  Rev.  Leonard  Woods, 
Sen.,  D.D.,  commenced  writing  the  following  history  of 
Andover  Theological  Seminary  in  1839  in  accordance 
with  the  expressed  wish  of  the  Trustees.  After  the 
work  was  begun,  however,  the  various  and  engrossing 
cares  of  his  office  of  Abbot  Professor  of  Christian  The- 
ology in  that  institution  caused  him  to  lay  aside  his 
manuscript  for  many  years.  After  his  resignation  of 
his  Professorship  in  1846,  he  had  more  time  at  his  dis- 
posal for  purely  literary  work.  Having  completed  and 
published  his  Lectures,  Essays  and  Sermons  in  1850,  he 
was  again  urged  by  the  Trustees  to  complete  and  pub- 
lish his  History  of  the  Seminary.  To  this  formal  request 
the  letter  following  the  Table  of  Contents,  dated  March 
22,  1851,  is  his  reply. 

My  grandfather  was  thought  by  the  Trustees  to  be 
especially  qualified  for  the  trust  they  desired  him  to 
accept,  for  the  following  reasons: 

First, — With  the  exception  of  Saml.  Farrar,  Esq., 
of  Andover,  he  was  the  only  one  then  living  who  was 
personally  concerned  in  the  negotiations  by  which  the 
Seminary  was  called  into  being. 

Second, — He  was  blessed  with  a  remarkably  reten- 
tive memory. 


M213262 


6  EDITOR'S   PREFACE. 

Third, — He  had  persevered  throughout  his  profes- 
sional life  in  a  very  systematic  habit  of  keeping  on  file 
his  voluminous  correspondence,  and  in  preserving  copies 
of  his  own  important  letters. 

This  history  was  completed  by  my  grandfather,  dur- 
ing the  latter  years  of  his  life,  with  the  valued  assistance 
of  my  grandmother  as  amanuensis  and  copyist.  All 
that  was  needed  at  the  time  of  my  grandfather's  de- 
cease was  a  careful  editorial  revision  of  the  manuscript 
before  sending  it  to  the  printer,  with  whom  negotiations 
for  its  publication  were  at  that  time  in  progress.  On 
the  19th  of  July,  1854,  in  anticipation  of  his  near 
approach  to  death,  my  grandfather  added  a  codicil  to 
his  will  previously  prepared,  in  which  appears  the 
following  section: 

"  In  the  first  place,  if  my  decease  shall  take  place 
before  the  publication  of  my  History  of  the  Seminary 
is  completed,  my  will  is  that  the  manuscripts  and  docu- 
ments pertaining  thereto  shall  pass  into  the  hands  of 
my  son  Leonard  and  that  he  shall  publish  the  History 
as  I  have  prepared  it,  only  making  such  corrections  as 
he  shall  see  to  be  called  for  in  order  to  complete  the 
plan  which  I  have  laid  out  and  which  I  have  nearly 
finished." 

I  judge  from  the  papers  collected  by  the  Rev. 
Leonard  Woods,  Jr.,  D.D.,  which  have  come  tem- 
porarily into  my  possession,  that  my  uncle  contem- 
plated enlarging  the  scope  of  the  History  as  origi- 
nally designed,  to  include  the  history  of  Phillips 
Academy,  Andover,  on  which  the  Seminary  was  en- 
grafted, and  embracing  lengthy  biographical  sketches 
of  the  Phillips'  family,  whose  many  generous  benefac- 
tions so  greatly  promoted  educational  interests  in  New 
England. 

My  uncle  died,  however,  in  1880,  leaving  this  con- 


EDITOR'S    PREFACE.  7 

templated  work  unfinished,  and  my  grandfather's  His- 
tory unpublished.  President  Woods'  seizure  with  his 
final  illness,  was  coincident  with,  and  some  have  thought 
was  in  a  measure  caused  by,  a  fire  which  broke  out  in 
his  library  at  Brunswick,  Me.,  which,  before  it  was  ex- 
tinguished, burned  some  of  his  important  papers  and 
charred  some  portions  of  this  History. 

In  the  year  1883  the  various  representatives  of  Dr. 
Woods7  family  united  in  a  petition  to  the  Court  of 
Essex  Co.,  Massachusetts,  in  which  my  grandfather's 
will  was  admitted  to  probate,  to  have  me  appointed 
trustee  of  these  manuscripts  and  documents,  to  publish 
them  according  to  the  provisions  of  my  grandfather's 
will. 

Thirty  years  having  elapsed,  however,  since  this 
work  was  intended  to  be  given  to  the  public,  I  was  at 
first  somewhat  doubtful  as  to  the  expediency  of  its  pres- 
ent publication,  but  my  doubts  were  over-ruled  by  the 
urgency  of  some  prominent  representatives  of  the  Con- 
gregational body  that  the  book  had  long  been  looked 
for,  and  would  contain  and  preserve  many  interesting 
and  important  facts  concerning  the  theological  history 
of  New  England  which  could  not  otherwise  be  found. 

I  was  also  doubtful  whether  a  clergyman  of  the 
Episcopal  Church  was  the  proper  person  to  undertake 
the  task  of  contending  for  the  Westminster  Assembly's 
Catechism  and  the  Andover  Creed  as  ' '  the  faith  once 
delivered  to  the  saints."  But  when  I  discovered  that 
the  terms  of  my  grandfather's  will  limited  my  editorial 
responsibility  merely  to  clerical  work,  and  that  I  was 
not  required  to  insert  any  original  polemical  contribu- 
tions, I  consented  to  receive  the  trust. 

On  examining  the  papers  which  came  thus  into  my 
possession,  the  task  I  had  undertaken  seemed  impossible 
of  accomplishment.  Many  portions  of  the  manuscript 


EDITOR'S   PREFACE. 


were  burned  so  as  to  be  practically  useless,  and  I  may 
truly  say  that  had  not  my  grandfather  re-written  several 
of  the  chapters,  and  had  not  a  kind  Providence  provided 
that  where  one  portion  of  the  manuscript  was  charred, 
a  duplicate  chapter  was  found  to  take  its  place,  this 
History  in  the  connected  form  in  which  it  now  appears 
could  never  have  been  published.  Considering  the 
circumstances  through  which  these  papers  came  into 
my  possession,  I  have  not  felt  authorized  to  condense 
the  chapters  in  some  parts,  as  I  otherwise  should 
have  done. 

In  the  work  now  given  to  the  public,  I  have  scru- 
pulously followed  my  grandfather's  manuscript,   even 
omitting   and   marking  with  points   (.  .  .  .  .  .)  those 

few  words  which  were  charred  beyond  recognition. 

I  desire  to  express  my  thanks  to  Mr.  Wm.  Perkins 
and  J.  C.  Ropes,  Esq.,  of  Boston,  for  friendly  aid,  and 
especially  to  my  beloved  mother,  Mrs.  Harriette  Woods 
Baker,  for  valued  assistance  in  arranging  the  materials 
which  came  into  my  hands,  and  for  copying  for  the 
printer  various  portions  of  the  original  papers. 

I  trust  that  this  book  may  prove  a  valuable  and  im- 
portant contribution  to  the  history  of  a  theological 
institution  which  for  over  three  quarters  of  a  century 
has  sent  forth  large  classes  of  faithful  and  well-learned 
men  to  labor  in  this  and  other  lands  with  self-sacrificing 
zeal  for  the  extension  of  our  Redeemer's  Kingdom. 

GEORGE   S.  BAKER. 

ST.  LUKE'S  HOSPITAL, 
New  York,  March  19,  1884. 


CONTENTS. 


PART    FIRST. 

CHAPTER    I. 

STATE  OF  THEOLOGICAL  EDUCATION  IN  NEW  ENGLAND  PBEYIOUS  TO 

THE  FOUNDING  OP  THE  SEMINARY  AT  ANDOVER      .         .         .17 

CHAPTER    II. 

STATE  OF  THEOLOGICAL  OPINIONS  AND  PARTIES  IN  NEW  ENGLAND 

PREVIOUS  TO  THE  FOUNDING  OF  THE  SEMINARY  AT  ANDOVER     .          27 

CHAPTER   III. 

THE  FOUNDATION  OF  THE  THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY  TRACED  TO  THE 
CHARTER  OF  PHILLIPS  ACADEMY  AND  TO  THE-  INTENDED  BE- 
QUESTS OF  SAMUEL  ABBOT,  ESQ.,  OF  ANDOVEB  ...  47 

CHAPTER    IV. 

THE  OTHEB  FOUNDEBS  OF  ANDOVEB  THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY  .          63 

CHAPTER    Y. 

HISTOEICAL   SKETCH   OF  EVENTS  EELATIVE   TO   A  THEOLOGICAL 

SEMINABY          .         .         .         ...         .         .         .         .72 

CHAPTER    VI. 

HISTOBICAL   SKETCH   OF  EVENTS  BELATIVE   TO  A  THEOLOGICAL 

SEMINARY,  continued          .......       82 

CHAPTER    VII. 

FOUNDING  OF  THE  THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY  .  .     115 


10  CONTENTS. 

CHAPTEK    Yin. 

OPENING  OF  THE  THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY    .         .         .         .         .133 

CHAPTER    IX. 

THE  FIRST  FIVE  PROFESSORS       .         .         .         .         .         .         .145 

CHAPTER    X. 

MEANS  OF  INTELLECTUAL  AND  SPIRITUAL  IMPROVEMENT  OFFERED  IN 

THE  SEMINARY  .........     159 

CHAPTER    XI. 

DUTIES  OF  THE  TRUSTEES  AND  VISITORS  TO  THE  FACULTY,  IN  AC- 
CORDANCE WITH  THE  STATUTES, — AND  DUTIES  OF  THE  PRO- 
FESSORS TO  THE  STUDENTS  .  .  .  .  .  .171 

CHAPTER    XII. 

DUTIES  OF  THE  PROFESSORS  TO  EACH  OTHER         .         .         .         .186 

CHAPTER    XIH. 

RETROSPECTIVE  AND  PROSPECTIVE  VIEW  OF  THE  SEMINARY     .         .     198 


PART    SECOND. 

1.  ACT  OF  INCORPORATION  OF  PHILLIPS  ACADEMY         .         .         .213 

2.  SUPPLEMENTARY  ACT  INCORPORATING  THE  THEOLOGICAL  SEMI- 

NARY          217 

3.  ACT  OF  INCORPORATION  OF  THE  BOARD  OF  VISITORS,  1824         .     218 

4.  CONSTITUTION  OF  PHILLIPS  ACADEMY      .         .         .         .         .220 

5.  CONSTITUTION  OF  THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY       .         .         .         .232 

6.  ADDITIONAL  STATUTES  ........     247 

7.  ASSOCIATE  STATUTES     .         .-         .         .         .         .         .         .255 

8.  LAWS  OF  THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY,  WITH  AMENDMENTS      .         .270 

9.  FORMATION  OF  ASSOCIATE  CREED,  AND  ITS  ADDITION   TO  THE 

SHORTER  CATECHISM  AS  A  CONFESSION  OF  FAITH    .         .323 

10.  WHETHER  THE  UNITED  CONFESSION  OF  FAITH  WAS  INTENDED 

FOR  ALL  THE  PROFESSORS     .         .         .         .         .         .333 

11.  VARIOUS  QUESTIONS  ANSWERED  CONCERNING  THE  UNITED  CON- 

FESSION OF  FAITH        .  352 


CONTENTS.  11 

12.  USAGE  WITH  REGARD  TO  SUBSCRIPTION  TO  UNITED  CONFESSION 

OF  FAITH 367 

13.  DR.  WOODS'  PLEA 385 

14.  HON.  JOHN  H.  CLIFFORD'S  OPINION     .....     409 

15.  JUDGE  JOEL  PARKER'S  OPINION 410 

16.  PROFESSOR  L.  GREENLEAF'S  OPINION 417 

17.  JUDGE  THERON  METCALF'S  OPINION     .         .         .         .         .419 

18.  SQUIRE  FARRAR'S  STATEMENT  AND  PROTEST  .         .         .         .419 

19.  REPORT  OF  THE  COMMITTEE  OF  THE  BOARD  OF  VISITORS,  1844     424 

20.  DR.  DANIEL  DANA'S  PROTESTS  .     432 


APPENDIX, 

INCLUDING  LETTERS  FROM  1778  TO  1820    .  .        .     449 


To  THE  COMMITTEE  OF  EXIGENCIES  OF  PHILLIPS  ACADEMY. 

Gentlemen, — The  request  of  the  Trustees  that  I  would  write 
a  history  of  the  Theological  Institution,  transmitted  to  me  by 
Mr.  Taylor,  has  been  duly  received.1 

During  the  last  four  years  my  mind  has  been  turned  to  this 
subject  by  repeated  requests  from  members  of  the  Board  that 
I  would  write  such  a  history;  and  of  late  some  of  the  younger 
members  have  urged  the  duty  upon  me,  with  a  suggestion  that 
I  would  "not  be  afraid  of  making  it  too  long." 

In  compliance,  therefore,  with  your  wish,  I  am  induced  to 
contemplate  a  larger  work  than  I  had  thought  of.  It  will  be 
obvious  to  you  that  in  this  undertaking  I  shall  need  all  the  aid 
which  you  can  render  me,  and  any  suggestions,  which  you  or 
any  other  members  of  the  Board  shall  think  proper  to  make  to 
me,  respecting  the  business  in  hand,  I  shall  very  thankfully 
receive. 

I  am,  gentlemen,  your  friend  and  brother, 

LEONARD  WOODS. 
ANDOVBB,  March  22d,  1851. 


1  There  is  mention  made  of  an  earlier  request  by  the  Trustees  about  1839, 
but  this,  with  the  answer  to  it,  was  probably  burned  or  lost  in  the  fire  through 
which  all  the  papers  connected  with  this  History  passed. — EDHOB. 


DEDICATION. 


To  THE  TRUSTEES  AND  VISITORS  OP  THE  THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY 
IN  ANDOVER. 

Gentlemen, — In  dedicating  the  following  history  to  you,  I  follow 
the  strong  impulses  of  my  own  heart.  For  almost  forty  years  I 
have  had  an  intimate  and  happy  connection  with  your  separate 
Boards;  and  have  been  a  witness  of  the  integrity  and  untiring 
assiduity  with  which  you  have  discharged  your  momentous  and 
often  difficult  duties. 

Of  the  Visitors,  all  those  who  were  in  office  at  the  opening  of 
the  Seminary  have  given  place  to  others;  and  only  one  of  those  who 
then  constituted  the  Board  of  Trustees  is  still  with  you.  It  is  to 
be  acknowledged  as  a  great  blessing  to  the  Seminary  that  its 
present  Guardians,  on  both  Boards,  inherit  the  character  of  those 
excellent  men  who  maintained  the  office  before  them. 

A  principal  reason  which  has  influenced  me  to  dedicate  this 
work  to  you,  is,  that  I  might  thus  publicly  bear  testimony  to  the 
great  kindness  which  I  have  experienced  from  you,  the  encour- 
agement you  have  given  me  in  my  labors,  and  your  candid  ap- 
probation of  my  services. 

You  are  the  representatives  of  the  beloved  Founders,  Abbot, 
Brown,  Bartlett,  and  Norris;  chosen  according  to  their  directions, 
and  acting  in  their  stead.  Through  you  I  am  able  to  address 
myself  virtually  to  those  noble  men,  who  have  now  gone  to  their 
reward,  and  also  to  those  Guardians  of  the  Seminary  with  whom 
I  was  at  first  connected. 

The  station  you  occupy  is  inexpressibly  important;  comprising 
duties  among  the  most  sacred  and  weighty  which  can  devolve 
upon  human  beings.  I  am  happy  to  feel  assured  that  you  would 
never  have  undertaken  so  solemn  a  trust,  had  you  not  relied  on 
the  promise  of  God,  to  give  the  necessary  wisdom  and  strength 
to  those  who  are  engaged  in  His  service. 


EXPLANATION   OF  WORDS   AND   PHRASES. 


In  the  following  chapters,  both  in  the  First  and  the  Second  Part 
of  this  work,  and  also  in  the  Appendix,  various  words  and  phrases 
will  be  found  which  will  not  at  once  convey  clearly  and  distinctly  the 
sense  intended  without  particular  explanations. 

1st,  FOUNDERS  OF  THE  INSTITUTION.  These  were  Samuel  Abbot, 
Phoebe  Phillips,  and  John  Phillips  of  Andover.  They  founded  the 
Seminary,  framed  the  Constitution,  and  committed  it  to  the  Board 
of  Trustees,  August  31st,  1807.  The  above  named  .  .  .  completely 
founded  the  Seminary  at  the  time  above  mentioned,  and  they  always 
claimed  and  exercised  the  powers  .  .  of  Founders  to  legislate  for  the 
whole  Institution;  this  power  having  been  conferred  upon  them  by 
the  act  of  the  Supreme  Court,  and  fully  recognized  by  the  Trustees 
and  Visitors  ....  persons  ever  became  Founders  of  the  Institution 
....  right  which  belonged  to  the  Founders  to  legislate  for  the 
Institution  as  a  whole. 

2d,  THE  ASSOCIATE  FOUNDERS  were  Messrs.  Brown,  Bartlett,  and 
Norris.  Their  being  called  Associate  Founders  dobs  not  imply  that 
they  were  associated  with  Mr.  Abbot  and  others  as  Founders  of  the 
Institution,  but  only  that  they  were  associated  with  each  other,  as 
Donors  to  the  Institution,  and  as  Founders  of  Professorships  in  the 
Institution  which  already  existed.  They  are  sometimes  called  "As- 
sociate Donors,"  and  sometimes  "the  Associates."  These  Associate 
Founders  of  Professorships  never  undertook  to  do  more  than  to  give 
funds  as  the  foundation  of  Professorships,  which  were  called  "Asso- 
ciate Funds,"  or  the  "Associate  Foundation,"  and  to  make  Statutes, 
or  rules  respecting  Professors  and  students  on  their  foundation.  Ac- 
cordingly, in  their  Statutes  they  give  directions  as  to  their  Associate 
Professors,  Associate  funds,  and  the  Associate  students.  They  never 
give  any  direction  as  the  Founders  of  the  Institution  do,  respecting 
every  Professor  in  the  Seminary,  or  respecting  the  members  of  the 
Seminary  generally. 

3d,  THE  CONSTITUTION  was  made  for  the  Seminary  as  a  whole. 

4th,  THE  ADDITIONAL  STATUTES,  executed  May  3d,  1808,  were  the 
last  acts  of  the  Founders  of  the  Institution.  They  constituted  the  .  . 
Constitution  of  the  Seminary  and  gave  its  final  .  .  .  ness  to  the  united 


16  EXPLANATION    OF    WORDS    AND    PHRASES. 

establishment.  The  Additional  Statutes  were  executed  by  the  Found- 
ers of  the  Institution,  May  3d,  1808,  for  the  sole  purpose  of  satisfying 
the  Associate  Founders,  and  inducing  them  to  form  a  union  with  the 
Founders  of  the  Seminary. 

5th,  THE  ORIGINAL  CONSTITUTION  is  the  Constitution  formed  in 
1807,  before  the  additions  made  to  it  by  the  Founders  in  1808.  But 
after  these  were  made,  they  became  part  and  parcel  of  the  original 
Constitution,  as  much  as  if  they  had  been  made  at  the  same  time. 

6th,  THE  ASSOCIATE  STATUTES  which  were  executed  March  21st  .  . 
relate  only  to  the  Associate  Professors  and  funds. 

7th,  THE  ASSOCIATE  CREED  first  designed  for  Professors  in  a  sep- 
arate Divinity  School,  and  then  for  the  Professors  in  the  Associate 
Foundation  in  the  Andover  Seminary,  was  finally,  on  May  3d,  1808, 
joined  with  the  Catechism  by  the  Founders  of  the  Institution,  thus 
forming  one  and  the  same  doctrinal  standard  for  all  the  Professors. 


HISTORY 


ANDOVER   THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 


CHAPTER   I. 

STATE     OF    THEOLOGICAL    EDUCATION    IN    NEW    ENGLAND     PREVIOUS    TO 
THE    FOUNDING    OF    THE    SEMINARY   AT    ANDOVER. 

No  one  can  rightly  understand  the  importance  and  ne- 
cessity of  the  Theological  Institution  in  Andover  without 
taking  into  view  the  previous  circumstances  of  our  re- 
ligious community:  particularly  the  state  of  Theological 
Education  and  Theological  Opinion.  On  each  of  these  I 
shall  briefly  remark. 

At  the  commencement  of  the  present  century,  and 
indeed  for  a  long  time  before,  the  education  of  men 
for  the  sacred  ministry  was  evidently  very  defective.  It 
was  true  that  Congregational  ministers,  with  few  ex- 
ceptions were  educated  at  Colleges;  but  beyond  this  little 
was  done  in  preparation  for  the  sacred  office.  At  Harvard 
College  there  was  a  provision  for  the  support  of  students 
in  divinity  who  resided  at  Cambridge,  and  it  was  the 
duty  of  the  Hollis  Professor  of  Divinity  to  assist  such 
students  in  their  studies.  They  had  access  to  the  Library 
and  they  read  a  sermon  occasionally  on  Sabbath  evening 
in  the  Chapel  at  College  prayers;  but  the  advantages  of 
the  situation  were  not  considered  of  much  consequence, 
and  during  the  four  years  of  my  education  at  the  Uni- 
versity there  were  not,  so  far  as  I  recollect,  more  than 
three  or  four  resident  students  in  divinity.  At  Yale 
College  theological  education  was  in  a  more  favorable 


18         HISTORY   OF   ANDOYER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

state.  Dr.  D wight,  who  was  justly  celebrated  as  a  divine, 
delivered  a  regular  course  of  lectures  on  the  morning 
of  the  Sabbath,  and  moreover  students  who  resided 
there  derived  great  benefit  from  his  conversation  and 
advice.  At  Dartmouth  College  also  provision  was  made 
for  the  study  of  natural  and  revealed  religion.  But  be- 
yond this  general  and  very  inadequate  education,  little 
was  systematically  done  toward  preparing  men  for  the  sacred 
office.  The  time  which  the  candidates  .for  the  ministry 
devoted  to  professional  study  was  generally  very  short, 
frequently  no  more  than  a  few  months.  Even  when 
they  extended  their  studies  to  a  year  or  more,  they  had 
few  advantages,  and  gained  but  a  very  inadequate  knowl- 
edge of  the  different  branches  of  theological  learning, 
except,  perhaps,  Christian  theology  in  the  more  limited 
sense.  Little  attention  was  given  to  the  Greek  and 
Hebrew  languages,  or  to  Biblical  criticism.  Some  studied 
alone,  reading  such  books  as  they  could  procure,  arid 
writing  a  few  sermons.  But  in  most  cases  they  pursued 
their  studies  under  the  direction  of  some  distinguished 
divine.  Beside  enjoying  his  assistance,  they  had  the 
advantage  of  a  little  company  of  students  who  pursued 
their  studies  together,  and  frequently  engaged  in  pro- 
fitable discussions  of  important  subjects.  True,  the 
clergyman  who  became  their  teacher  had  for  the  most 
part  a  very  small  collection  of  books,  and  was  himself 
so  occupied  with  his  ministerial  duties,  that  but  little 
time  and  attention  could  be  given  to  his  pupils,  and  it 
was  moreover  very  rarely  the  case,  that  parish  ministers 
with  such  an  education  as  they  themselves  enjoyed,  were 
qualified  to  carry  students  through  the  various  depart- 
ments of  a  theological  course.  There  were,  however, 
some  real  advantages  in  the  method  of  study  which  was 
then  pursued.  Young  men  had  opportunities  to  acquire  a 
direct  and  practical  acquaintance  with  the  duties  and 
trials  of  a  minister,  and  with  the  affairs  of  a  church  arid 


STATE  OF  THEOLOGICAL  EDUCATION.        19 

parish.  They  had,  too,  the  benefit  of  engaging  person- 
ally in  conducting  more  private  religious  meetings,  and 
in  performing  other  services  among  the  people  under 
the  direction  of  the  Pastor.  These  advantages  were  of 
still  greater  value  when  they  could  regard  their  instructor 
as  a  good  pattern,  both  of  preaching  and  pastoral  duties. 
Most  of  all  were  these  beneficial  when  his  labors  were 
attended  with  a  special  Divine  influence,  and  they  had 
opportunity  to  mingle  in  the  scenes  of  a  revival  of  re- 
ligion. The  clergymen  who  were  most  eminent  in  the 
instruction  of  theological  students  for  a  considerable 
period  before  the  opening  of  this  Seminary  were  the 
following:  namely,  the  Rev.  Doctors  Bellamy,  Smalley, 
Hopkins,  Dwight,  Barton,  Emmons,  Charles  Backus, 
Spring,  Lathrop,  and  Hooker. 

The  Rev.  Joseph  Bellamy,  D.D.,  who  was  settled  at 
Bethlehem,  Conn.,  in  1740,  was  brought  into  notice  by  the 
publication  of  his  "True  Religion  Delineated."  He  em- 
braced the  system  of  truth  held  by  the  elder  Edwards, 
and  "  which  was  known,"  says  the  biographer  of  Bellamy, 
"as  the  sound  theology  of  New  England.  Many  young 
men  contemplating  the  work  of  the  ministry,  applied  to 
him  as  an  instructor.  For  many  years  his  dwelling  was  a 
Theological  School  in  which  were  trained  some  of  the  most 
distinguished  ministers  of  the  next  generation." 

"  Dr.  Bellamy,"  says  his  biographer,  "  directed  the 
studies  of  more  candidates  for  the  ministry,  before  Theo-: 
logical  Seminaries  were  introduced,  than  any  other  Divine 
in  our  country  ever  did,  except  Dr.  Emmons."  As  all  the 
other  private  Divinity  schools  resembled  his,  I  shall  insert 
the  substance  of  the  account  which  his  biographer  gives 
of  it. 

Dr.  Bellamy's  mode  of  instruction  was  to  give  his 
students  a  list  of  questions  on  the  principal  subjects  of 
theology — such  as,  the  existence,  attributes  and  government 
of  God;  moral  agency,  and  the  law  under  which  we  are 


20         HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

placed;  the  sinful  state  and  character  of  mankind;  Divine 
revelation;  the  great  doctrines  of  the  gospel;  the  character 
and  offices  of  Christ;  the  atonement;  regeneration;  jus- 
tification; repentance;  love  and  other  Christian  graces; 
perseverance  of  the  saints;  death,  resurrection,  and  final 
judgment;  heaven  and  hell;  the  church,  its  nature,  offices, 
ordinances,  and  discipline,  etc.  He  directed  his  pupils  to 
read  the  ablest  treatises  on  the  subject  before  them,  and 
generally  spent  his  evenings  in  examining  their  views,  and 
in  solving  difficulties — closing  by  giving  his  own  opinion 
and  the  reasons  for  it,  then  leaving  them  to  write  out  their 
own  impressions  and  the  reasons  on  the  whole  subject.  He 
examined  their  dissertations  and  made  free  remarks  upon 
them.  He  also  directed  his  pupils  to  read  the  writings  of  the 
most  learned  and  acute  opposers  of  the  truth,  and  laid  open 
to  them  the  fallacy  of  these  reasonings.  When  the  students 
had  in  this  way  gone  through  with  a  system  of  theologi- 
cal questions,  they  wrote  sermons  on  some  of  the  important 
subjects.  These  sermons  their  teacher  read  and  corrected, 
and  it  was  his  rule  that  those  who  were  licensed,  should 
occasionally  deliver  their  sermons  in  the  outskirts  of  the 
parish.  On  these  occasions,  in  company  with  all  his  pupils, 
it  was  his  rule  to  attend  the  service,  and  on  their  return  he 
criticised  the  performance,  and  always  in  a  manner  not  likely 
to  be  forgotten.  But  Dr.  Bellamy  did  not  confine  his  efforts 
to  the  intellectual  improvement  of  his  pupils.  With  great  seri- 
ousness he  pressed  upon  them  the  indispensable  importance 
of  a  heart  truly  devoted  to  the  service  of  Christ;  and  a  life 
of  watchfulness,  spirituality  and  prayer,  discoursing  occasion- 
ally on  the  trials  and  comforts  of  the  sacred  office,  and 
conversing  with  each  on  his  personal  experience  as  a 
Christian.  Thus  he  labored  that  his  pupils  might  be  scribes 
well  instructed  unto  the  kingdom  of  heaven.  Dr.  Bellamy's 
labors  as  a  teacher  of  theological  students  probably  con- 
tinued till  about  1786,  when  he  was  attacked  with  paralysis. 
The  Rev.  John  Smalley,  D.D.,  of  Berlin,  Conn.,  studied 


STATE    OF    THEOLOGICAL    EDUCATION.  21 

Theology  with  Dr.  Bellamy  and  was  ordained  at  Berlin  in 
1756  where  he  continued  to  labor  with  distinguished  fidelity 
and  success  for  nearly  sixty  years.  "  He  was  one  of  the  most 
eminent  divines  of  New  England.  He  possessed  great 
energy  and  penetration  of  mind  and  soundness  of  judgment. 
He  thought  and  wrote  with  a  logical  accuracy  and  precision 
seldom  equalled,  and  by  his  publications  contributed  much 
to  the  progress  of  theological  knowledge."  As  a  teacher  of 
a  theological  school  he  labored  to  establish  his  pupils  in 
the  doctrines  of  grace,  proved  from  the  word  of  God.  He 
urged  them  to  a  constant  and  devout  examination  of  the 
Scriptures.  He  dwelt  much  on  the  Divine  character  and 
agency  and  equally  maintained  the  necessity  of  human 
agency.  Dr.  Smalley  taught  thirty  students  or  more.  His 
school  continued  from  about  1765  to  1804.  Dr.  Ebenezer  , 
Porter  of  Andover  studied  theology  with  him.  Dr.  Emmons 
was  one  of  his  first  pupils  and  very  nearly  adopted  his 
manner  of  teaching. 

Dr.  Emmons,  who  was  born  in  East  Haddam,  Conn.,  April, 
1745,  and  ordained  to  the  work  of  the  ministry  in  Franklin, 
Mass.,  April,  1773,  began  to  teach  theological  students  some 
five  or  six  years  after  his  ordination.  He  says,  "At  first  I 
left  my  students  to  take  very  much  their  own  method  of 
studying. — But  after  I  durst  consider  myself  as  an  instructor, 
1  adopted  nearly  the  same  method  that  Dr.  Smalley  had  taught 
me."  Accordingly  he  gave  his  students  a  brief  system  of  the- 
ological questions  on  which  they  wrote  dissertations.  He 
devoted  much  time  to  conversation  with  them.  He  en- 
gaged with  them  in  a  very  free  and  earnest  discussion  of 
important  and  difficult  subjects,  both  theological  and  meta- 
physical. He  criticised  their  sermons,  and  gave  them  valu- 
able suggestions  as  to  their  style  and  delivery.  They  generally 
went  through  with  his  system  of  questions  in  about  a  year. 
Some  staid  with  him  two  years;  and  some  less  than  one  year. 
He  took  the  special  superintendence  of  their  studies  in 
nothing  but  systematic  theology  and  sermonizing.  But  they 


22         HISTORY   OF   ANDOYER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

attended  more  or  less  to  the  Scriptures  (I  suppose  the  New 
Testament)  in  the  original  language,  as  well  as  the  Eng- 
lish, and  also,  in  some  measure,  to  Ecclesiastical  History. 
There  is  a  list  of  eighty-seven  of  his  students,  in  his  own  hand- 
writing. This  is  probably  a  larger  number  than  came  under 
the  instruction  of  any  other  minister  of  New  England.  Dr. 
Emmons  was  peculiarly  fond  of  metaphysical  discussion.  On 
several  points  he  differed  from  Edwards  and  other  Calvinistic 
divines.  "The  Exercise  Scheme"  had  been  previously  ad- 
vanced, but  he  made  it  so  prominent,  and  took  such  pains 
to  maintain  it  in  opposition  to  what  was  called  the  "Taste 
Scheme,"  and  carried  it  out  into  so  many  new  applications, 
that  he  was  generally  considered  as  its  father;  and  he  so 
regarded  himself. 

Dr.  Burton,  of  Thetford,  Vt.,  was  engaged  in  teaching 
Theology  at  the  same  time  with  Dr.  Emmons,  and  trained 
up  a  large  number  of  young  men  for  the  gospel  ministry. 
He  exerted  a  powerful  influence  over  the  minds  of  his 
pupils,  and  while  resident  with  him,  they  had  repeatedly  the 
opportunity  of  witnessing  the  visible  operations  of  Divine 
grace  in  the  conversion  of  sinners,  and  the  advancement  of 
Christians  in  piety.  An  excellent  minister,  who  was  one  of 
his  pupils,  says,  "  Dr.  Burton  was  thoroughly  versed  in  all 
the  fundamental  truths  of  the  Bible,  and  had  a  pre-eminently 
happy  talent  in  stating  and  defending  them.  As  a  minister  he 
was  grave,  devout,  humble,  faithful  and  successful.  During 
one  period  of  his  ministry  he  had  a  revival  which  continued 
seven  years.  The  fruits  of  that  revival  I  had  the  privilege 
of  witnessing;  and  they  were  such  as  I  should  rejoice  to  see 
again."  Dr.  Burton's  method  of  teaching  Theology  was  not 
essentially  different  from  that  which  was  adopted  by  Bellamy 
and  others.  In  regard  to  the  "Taste  Scheme,"  in  opposition 
to  the  u  Exercise  Scheme,"  he  agreed  with  Edwards,  Dwight, 
and  Smalley,  and  other  Calvinists  generally.  He  gave  the 
scheme,  however,  an  uncommonly  high  place  in  his  theo- 
logical instructions,  and  maintained  it  with  great  earnest 


STATE  OF  THEOLOGICAL  EDUCATION.        23 

ness,  both  publicly  and  privately.  The  free  personal  inter- 
course which,  for  many  years,  I  had  with  Dr.  Burton  and 
Dr.  Emraons,  deeply  impressed  my  mind  with  the  excel- 
lence of  their  intellectual  and  religious  character. 

The  Kev.  Joseph  Lathrop,  D.D.,  of  West  Springfield,  was 
born  in  1731;  his  labors  in  teaching  theological  students 
extended  from  about  1790  to  1810.  The  following  account 
of  his  mode  of  teaching  is  from  his  own  pen.  He  says:  "I 
have  assisted  about  twenty  young  gentlemen  in  their  studies 
for  the  ministry.  A  number  of  them  are  settled  and  are 
respectable  in  their  profession.  Some  of  them  who  are 
unsettled  are  of  promising  disposition  and  acquirements. 
If  Providence  should  open  a  door  for  their  stated  employ- 
ment, I  trust  they  will  be  blessings  to  the  churches.  Stu- 
dents in  divinity  I  have  ever  been  disposed  to  encourage, 
but  never  chosen  to  flatter.  I  advise  them  to  see  that 
a  love  of  religion,  and  a  sense  of  its  importance  possess  their 
minds — that  their  governing  motives  be  superior  to  the 
interests  of  the  world.  I  warn  them  that  if  the  latter 
be  their  predominant  motive,  they  will  be  disappointed; 
and  it  will  be  prudent  to  turn  their  attention  to  some 
other  profession. 

. "  I  usually  invite  them  to  take  their  turns  with  me 
in  family  devotions.  I  often  hear  them  read,  that  uncouth 
habits,  if  they  have  contracted  any,  may  be  corrected. 

"  I  give  them  a  systematical  list  of  questions,  on  each 
of  which  they  write.  I  hear  their  compositions  and  make 
such  remarks,  as  I  think  proper  to  be  made,  on  the  sen- 
timent, grammar,  style,  argument  and  manner  of  reading. 
If  there  be  a  number  of  students  together,  they  first 
make  remarks  on  each  others'  dissertations,  and  I  close 
with  mine. 

"They  read  some  systems  of  divinity,  but  are  advised 
not  to  attach  themselves  to  human  systems,  but  to  search 
after  truth  with  unbiased  minds,  and  make  the  word  of 
inspiration  their  dernier  ressort.  They  also  read  church  his- 


24         HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

tory,  and,  after  some  previous  studies,  they  read  sermons.  In 
the  criticism  of  these,  regard  is  had  to  style  and  manner,  as 
well  as  to  sentiment.  I  am  often  instructed  and  profited  by 
their  remarks  on  the  books  which,  they  read. 

"When  they  begin  to  write  sermons,  they  are  advised 
to  select  important  subjects,  and  write  upon  them  in  a  prac- 
tical and  useful  manner,  with  a  natural  arrangement  and 
just  connection  of  their  thoughts,  and  with  a  perspicuity 
of  diction,  never  leaving  an  ambiguous  sentence  uncor- 
rected,  for  perspicuity  is  the  chief  grace  in  style.  If  they 
attain  this,  other  graces  will  follow,  at  least  so  far  that 
the  style  will  pass  for  good.  They  are  advised  not  to  affect 
floridity.  If  flowers  come  in  their  way,  gather  them;  but 
they  must  never  go  out  of  their  way  to  seek  them.  A 
style  stuffed  with  far-fetched  ornament  is  too  puerile  a 
garb  for  the  pulpit.  Everything  brought  thither  should 
be  pure  and  solid.  Their  language  should  be  pure  Eng- 
lish, without  the  intermixture  of  hard  words  and  foreign 
idioms  and  phrases.  An  affectation  of  learning  breeds 
contempt." 

Dr.  Charles  Backus,  wh<5  was  ordained  at  Somers,  Conn., 
1774,  began  to  instruct  theological  students  as  early  as  1788, 
and  continued  in  the  work  near  fifteen  years.  The  whole 
number  taught  by  him  was  somewhat  over  fifty.  The  av- 
erage time  they  spent  with  him  was  about  one  year.  With 
myself  and  many  others  the  time  was  much  less.  His  mode 
of  instruction  agreed  substantially  with  that  which  has 
already  been  described.  In  1802,  nine  graduates  of  Yale 
College  were  in  his  school  at  the  same  time.  His  stu- 
dents had  repeated  opportunities  of  witnessing  revivals 
of  religion,  and  of  taking  an  active  part,  under  his  wise 
direction,  in  promoting  the  work  of  Divine  grace  among 
the  people.  The  instruction  which  he  gave  in  Christian 
Theology,  in  sermonizing,  and  in  pastoral  duties,  was  very 
thorough. 

I  had  the  privilege  of  living  in  the  family  of  Dr.  Backus, 


STATE  OF  THEOLOGICAL  EDUCATION.        2 

as  my  instructor,  and  can  bear  a  hearty  testimony  to  the 
amiableness  of  his  temper,  his  humility,  uprightness  and 
fervent  piety.  Morning  and  evening  he  read  the  word  of 
God  with  pertinent  and  striking  remarks,  and  then  infused 
the  spirit  of  what  he  had  read  into  his  family  prayers.  In 
the  conduct  of  the  revival  of  religion  which  occurred  in 
1797  he  manifested  singular  judgment  and  skill.  He  had 
been  fully  acquainted  with  the  wild  and  fanatical  spirit 
which  had  prevailed  in  some  parts  of  Connecticut  in  previous 
years,  to  the  great  injury  of  the  churches;  and  he  set 
himself  with  watchfulness  and  manly  resolution  to  exclude 
that  spirit  from  his  parish.  He  would  suffer  no  outcries 
and  no  disorderly  movements  in  public  assemblies.  He  had 
fewer  religious  meetings  during  the  week  than  had  been 
common  in  revivals,  saying  that  he  would  have  the  Sabbath 
regarded  as  the  great  and  sacred  day;  and  he  wished  his 
people  to  come  to  the  house  of  God  on  that  day  with  an 
appetite  for  spiritual  food.  His  preaching  was  a  safe  model 
for  young  ministers,  being  peculiarly  serious,  scriptural  arid 
impressive,  and  being  well  adapted,  not  to  excite  tumultuous 
and  excited  feeling,  but  to  make  known  the  excellence  of  God 
and  his  law,  to  produce  deep  conviction  of  sin  and  to  lead 
sinners,  in  self-despair,  to  apply  to  the  all-sufficient  Saviour. 
With  those  who  were  anxious  for  their  souls  he  chose  to 
converse  alone,  as  he  could  thus  obtain  a  much  clearer 
insight  into  the  state  of  their  minds.  He  explained  all  these 
matters  to  his  students  who  had  opportunity  to  gain  prac- 
tical wisdom  by  an  acquaintance  with  his  proceedings,  and 
who  were  influenced  by  his  remarkable  fidelity  and  success 
to  copy  his  example  as  a  minister  of  Christ. 

Dr.  Spring,  of  Newburyport,  had  also  the  care  of  a  num- 
ber of  theological  students;  but  he  did  not  engage  in  the 
work  to  any  considerable  extent. 

The  last  private  divinity  school  which  I  shall  mention  was 
that  of  Dr.  Asahel  Hooker,  of  Goshen,  Conn.,  which  extended 
its  work  from  1804  to  1809.  The  last  student  he  received 


26         HISTORY  OF  ANDOVER   THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

was  Gordon  Hall,  the  well-known  missionary  who  completed 
his  course  at  Andover.  During  the  five  years  of  Dr.  Hook- 
er's engagement  in  the  instruction  of  students,  he  had 
thirty-three  under  his  tuition,  a  larger  number  in  proportion 
to  the  time  than  any  other  school.  The  same  general  course 
of  study  was  'pursued,  and  the  same  advantages  enjoyed  as 
in  the  cases  before  mentioned. 


CHAPTER   II. 

STATE     OF    THEOLOGICAL    OPINIONS    AND    PARTIES    IN    NEW    ENGLAND 
PREVIOUS   TO    THE   POUNDING   OF   THE    SEMINARY   AT   ANDOVER. 

DURING  the  latter  part  of  the  eighteenth  century  and  the 
beginning  of  the  nineteenth,  it  was  notorious  that  the  minds 
of  many  of  the  youth  in  our  colleges  were  corrupted  by  the 
infidel  philosophy  which  had  sprung  up  and  produced  such 
abundant  fruit  in  France,  and  that  Deism  and  Atheism  were 
more  or  less  openly  advocated  by  multitudes  of  men,  both 
educated  and  uneducated,  in  pur  community.  But  this  was 
not  all. 

For  many  years  before  the  founding  of  the  Seminary, 
most  of  the  Congregational  ministers  in  Boston  and  the 
vicinity  had  been  declining  in  the  spirit  of  vital  piety,  and 
departing  from  the  faith  of  our  Puritan  fathers,  and  had  been 
showing  more  and  more  clearly,  that  they  were  infected  with 
the  Pelagian  and  Socinian  heresies.  The  churches  to  a  great 
extent  followed  their  teachers.  At  the  beginning  of  the 
present  century,  these  heresies  began  to  be  openly  main- 
tained; and  from  1805,  when  Dr.  Ware  was  elected  as  Hollis 
Professor  of  Divinity  in  Harvard  College,  the  friends  of 
"liberal  Christianity"  manifested  new  courage  and  activity, 
and  carried  on  their  controversy  with  the  Orthodox  with 
great  warmth.  This  state  of  things  in  Boston  and  Cam- 
bridge caused  deep  solicitude  among  Orthodox  ministers 
and  Christians,  and  led  to  a  general  feeling,  that  some- 
thing must  be  done  to  check  the  prevalence  of  error.  It 


28         HISTORY   OF   ANDOYER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

exerted  a  particular  and  powerful  influence  on  the  minds 
of  a  few  individuals  in  Andover  and  Newburyport,  and  be- 
came a  great  motive  with  them  to  undertake  the  work  of 
founding  a  Theological  School. 

But  the  prevalence  of  Unitarianism  in  the  metropolis 
and  in  Harvard  College  was  not  the  only  thing  which 
calls  for  our  consideration.  In  many  ministers,  who  were 
regarded  as  Orthodox  in  distinction  from  Unitarians,  there 
was  a  visible  falling  away  from  the  doctrines  and  the  spirit 
of  the  Puritans.  They  believed  the  principles  of  Calvinism 
less  decidedly,  and  preached  them  less  distinctively,  than 
those  who  preceded  them.  And  they  seemed  to  be  still  further 
removed  from  strict  orthodoxy  in  consequence  of  the  ex- 
treme speculations  of  some  who  contended  for  the  doctrines 
of  Calvinism.  This  portion  of  the  evangelical  clergy  might 
justly  be  denominated  Arminian  Calvinists,  or  Calvinistic 
Arminians.  They  were  in  fact  called  Moderate  Calvinists,  or 
Semi-Calvinists.  In  their  treatment  of  the  doctrines  of  de- 
pravity, of  regeneration,  and  other  doctrines  of  the  gospel, 
they  approximated  to  the  Arminian  school.  Ministers  of 
this  description  generally  favored  what  was  called  the  "  half 
way  covenant"  or  "half  way  practice;"  that  is,  the  practice 
of  receiving  persons  into  covenant  with  the  church  and 
baptizing  their  children,  without  any  evidence  of  their  piety, 
and  with  the  express  understanding  that  they  were  not 
to  partake  of  the  Lord's  Supper.  And  even  those  who  were 
more  strictly  orthodox  too  generally  fell  in  with  the  "  half- 
way practice."  But  a  considerable  portion  of  this  class  were 
shining  examples  of  piety,  and  showed  much  zeal  in  pro- 
moting revivals  of  religion.  And  afterwards,  under  a  better 
influence,  they  generally  came  up  to  a  higher  doctrinal 
standard. 

But  there  were  two  other  classes  of  Congregational  min- 
isters. Jonathan  Edwards,  by  his  writings  and  his  eminent 
piety,  had  exerted  a  mighty  influence  both  here  and  in 
Europe  against  a  latitudinarian  theology,  and  had  very  ex- 


THEOLOGICAL    OPINIONS    AND    PARTIES.  29 

tensively  produced  the  conviction,  that  strict  Calvinism  was 
the  religion  of  Scripture  and  reason.  And  for  a  time  it 
seemed,  that  Arminian  and  Pelagian  opinions  had  experi- 
enced a  final  overthrow.  Those  Calvinistic  ministers  who 
belonged  to  the  Edwardean  school,  constituted  a  very  large 
proportion  of  the  Congregational  clergy  in  New  England. 
On  this  point  I  have  not  trusted  to  my  own  individual 
judgment,  but  have  sought  information  from  several  min- 
isters who  will  be  acknowledged  to  be  very  competent 
judges,  and  have  obtained  letters  containing  their  testi- 
mony. The  following  extracts  will  be  sufficient. 

The  Rev.  Joel  Hawes,  D.D.,  in  a  letter  dated  Hartford, 
Oct.  12,  1853,  says,  "From  all  the  information  I  have  been 
able  to  obtain  from  various  sources,  I  have  received  the 
impression,  that  Drs.  Sm alley,  D wight,  Strong,  Perkins, 
Backus  of  Bethlehem,  and  Backus  of  Somers,  may  be  re- 
garded as  fair  exponents  of  the  theological  views  held  by 
the  ministers  of  this  State  at  the  beginning  of  the  present 
century.  They  were  Calvinists,  not  Hopkinsians;  Edward- 
ean, but  riot  followers  of  Emmons.  Few  if  any  (indeed  I  do 
not  remember  one)  held  the  extreme  views  of  Emmons. 
And  I  well  remember  that  the  Doctor  often  referred  in 
conversation  with  me  to  the  ministers  of  Connecticut  as 
erroneous  in  doctrine,  because  differing  from  him  in  his  pe- 
culiar speculations.  The  great  body  of  Connecticut  min- 
isters were  then  and  are  now  substantially  of  the  D  wight 

school, — Calvinists,  not  Hopkinsians I  drew  from 

the  brethren  of  my  Association  an  expression  of  opinion, 
which  entirely  accorded  with  what  I  have  expressed." 

In  a  letter  dated  Pittsfield,  Nov.  16,  1853,  the  Rev. 
Heman  Humphrey,  D.D.,  says,  "Such  as  my  impressions 
are,  I  am  free  to  express  them.  At  the  close  of  the  last 
and  the  beginning  of  the  present  century,  Hopkinsianism 
prevailed  in  Connecticut  to  some  extent — within  the  circle 
of  my  knowledge;  and  there  was  here  and  there  a  min- 


30         HISTORY  OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

ister  who  leaned  to  Dr.  Emmons'  views.  But  the  prevail- 
ing type  was  substantially  Edwardean.  Dr.  Smalley,  Dr. 
Strong  of  Hatfield,  and  Dr.  Dwight,  and  I  should  add  Dr. 
Griffin,  were,  I  think,  fair  representatives  of  the  great  body 
of  our  Congregational  ministers  at  that  period  ....  I  sup- 
pose the  general  theology  of  New  England  ministers  is  still 
the  same.  Exceptions  in  influential  quarters  of  New  Eng- 
land there  doubtless  are,  and  lax  tendencies,  which  are 
calculated  to  give  the  friends  of  sound  orthodoxy  serious 
alarm.  But  I  see  no  reason  to  question  that  the  heart  of 
New  England  theology  is  sound  at  the  core." 

In  a  letter  from  Rev.  Z.  S.  Barstow,  D.D.,  dated  Keene, 
N.  H.,  Nov.  22,  1853,  he  says,  "  In  answer  to  your  inquiries, 
I  would  say,  that  I  think  the  great  body  of  the  clergy  of  our 
denomination  in  New  Hampshire  are  sound  in  the  faith 
as  maintained  by  Edwards  and  Dwight.  So  far  as  I  know 
but  few  adopt  the  peculiar  notions  of  Emmons ;  though  many 
admire  him  as  a  writer. 

** seems  to  think  that  there  is  a  falling  away  from 

the  faith  of  the  Puritans,  but  I  (must  say  that  I)  indulge 
not  such  suspicions. 

"  So  far  as  I  have  been  on  ordaining  and  installing 
Councils,  and  the  instances  have  not  been  few,  the  breth- 
ren generally  are  strict  in  bringing  out  the  distinctive 
doctrines  of  the  Westminster  Assembly's  Catechism.  Per- 
haps some  of  them  have  hazarded  some  such  expressions 
as  you  did  in  your  letters  to  Dr.  Ware, — and  for  the  same 
reasons,  as  you  have  of  late  publicly  stated." 

Rev.  Thomas  Snell,  D.D.,  writes  from  North  Brookfield, 
Dec.  7,  1853,— 

" We  meet  with  new  and  affecting  and  inter- 
esting facts  in  the  history  of  the  church;  but  I  am  not 
looking  for  any  great  truth  in  theology  which  has  been 
unthought  of  by  the  wise  and  pious  divines  of  past  ages, 
and  just  now  discovered  like  a  new  planet.  The  Bible  is 
a  revelation  of  truth,  and  though  not  written  systematically, 


THEOLOGICAL    OPINIONS    AND    PARTIES.  31 

is  written  with  great  perspicuity,  so  that  the  truth  is  'plain 
to  him  that  understandeth  and  right  to  them  that  find 
knowledge.' 

"With  respect  t©  the  main  point  of  your  inquiry,  I 
would  say,  that  a  few  days  since  I  saw  Dr.  Fiske  whose 
views  correspond  with  my  own  on  the  subject;  viz.,  that  the 
general  character  of  theology  held  and  preached  by  Congre- 
gational ministers  in  Massachusetts  and  New  England  gen- 
erally, fifty  years  since,  was  what  may  be  styled  Calvinistic 
in  distinction  from  the  peculiar  and  extreme  views  of  Dr. 
Emmons  and  Dr.  Hopkins.  This  will  appear  from  looking 
at  the  most  distinguished  and  influential  ministers  of  the 
Congregational  order  around  New  England — some  a  little 
earlier  and  others  later — Dr.  Hart  of  Preston — Dr.  Strong 
of  Hartford — Dr.  Smalley  of  Berlin,  who  published  a  volume 
of  sermons  evidently  designed  to  counteract  the  extreme 
views  of  Dr.  Emmons, — Dr.  Lyman  of  Hatfield,  etc.,  etc. 
These  men  gave  a  character  to  the  prevalent  theology  of 
that  day  amongst  our  Congregational  clergy.  But  there  was 
an  increasing  leaning  amongst  our  young  ministers  toward 
the  peculiar  views  of  Dr.  Emmons  and  Dr.  Hopkins  until 
the  formation  of  the  General  Association  of  Massachusetts. 

"  You  are  aware  of  the  strong  and  continued  opposition 
of  Dr.  Emmons  to  the  General  Association,  and  how  from 
a  regard  to  his  feelings,  Mendon  Association  did  not  unite 
with  the  General  Association  till  after  his  decease.  One 
of  the  Dr's.  principal  objections  to  the  General  Association 
was  this,  that  its  influence  would  be  to  lower  the  standard 
of  orthodoxy.  And  if  his  peculiar  views  formed  this  stand- 
ard, it  actually  produced  this  effect.  It  did  much  however 
to  harmonize  the  views  and  feelings  of  the  ministers 
belonging  to  all  the  district  Associations  in  the  State." 

But  some,  who  were  attached  to  the  theology  of  Ed- 
wards, went  beyond  him,  and  advanced  several  speculations, 
which  differed  from  anything  found  in  his  writings.  The 
most  distinguished  of  these  was  Dr.  Samuel  Hopkins,  of 


32         HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY. 

Newport,  R.  I.,  a  man  of  powerful  intellect  and  ardent 
piety,  and  an  intimate  friend  of  Edwards.  Dr.  Emmons, 
of  Franklin,  Mass.,  a  little  later,  pursued  his  metaphysical 
speculations  still  further,  differing  in  some  things  from  Hop- 
kins, and  more  from  Edwards.  Dr.  Samuel  Spring  nearly 
agreed  with  Emmons,  and  these,  together  with  others  who 
adopted  the  same  opinions,  formed  a  distinct  class,  denomi- 
nated Hopkinsians.  This  class  of  ministers  considered  them- 
selves as  strict  Calvinists,  and  very  zealously  maintained 
the  leading  principles  laid  down  in  the  Westminster  Con- 
fession of  Faith  and  Shorter  Catechism,  and  in  the  writings 
of  Edwards.  But  they  generally  adopted  some  speculative 
doctrines,  and  some  modes  of  expression,  which  were  not 
found  in  the  Westminster  formula,  or  in  the  writings  of 
Edwards  or  previous  Calvinists. 

And  here  the  best  thing  I  can  do  is  to  insert  the  sum- 
mary of  the  tenets  of  Hopkinsians  as  stated  in  "The 
View  of  Keligions,"  by  Hannah  Adams.1  Dr.  Spring  in- 
formed me,  that  he  and  Dr.  Emmons  found  that  the 
statement  which  had  been  prepared  for  this  publication 
was  far  from  being  correct,  and  that  they  therefore  pre- 
pared the  following  summary  which  Miss  Adams  accepted 
and  published.2 

'*  1.  That  all  true  virtue,  or  real  holiness,  consists  in 
disinterested  benevolence. 

"2.  That  all  sin  consists  in  selfishness. 

"3.  That  there  are  no  promises  of  regenerating  grace 
made  to  the  doings  of  the  unregenerate. 

"  4.  That  the  impotency  of  sinners,  with  respect  to 
believing  in  Christ,  is  not  natural,  but  moral. 

"5.  That  in  order  to  faith  in  Christ  a  sinner  must 
approve  in  his  heart  of  the  Divine  conduct,  even  though 

1  3d  Edition,   Boston,   1801. 

2  At  the  end  of  her  article  on  Hopkinsianism  Miss  Adams  particular- 
izes among  her  authorities,   "A  manuscript  of  Dr.  Emmons,"  undoubtedly 
containing   the    statement   which   he   and   Dr.    Spring  had  prepared  for 
her  publication. 


THEOLOGICAL    OPINIONS    AND    PARTIES.  33 

God  should  cast  him  off  forever,  which,  however,  neither 
implies  love  to  misery,  nor  hatred  of  happiness. 
|~  "6.  That  the  infinitely  wise  and  holy  God  has  exerted 
his  omnipotent  power  in  such  a  manner  as  he  purposed 
should  be  followed,  with  the  existence  and  entrance  of 
moral  evil  in  the  system. 

"  7.  That  the  introduction  of  sin,  is  upon  the  whole 
for  the  general  good. 

"  8.  That  repentance  is  before  faith  in  Christ. 

"  9.  That  though  men  became  sinners  by  Adam,  accord- 
ing to  Divine  constitution,  yet  they  have,  and  are  ac- 
countable for,  no  sins  but  personal,  For, 

"(1)  Adam's  act,  in  eating  the  forbidden  fruit,  was 
not  the  act  of  his  posterity;  therefore  they  did  not  sin 
at  the  same  time  he  did. 

"  (2)  The  sinfulness  of  that  act  could  not  be  trans- 
ferred to  them  afterwards;  because  the  sinfulness  of  an  act 
can  no  more  be  transferred  from  one  person  to  another 
than  an  act  itself. 

u  10.  That  though  believers  are  justified  through  Christ's 
righteousness,  yet  his  righteousness  is  not  transferred  to 
them. 

"  For  if  Christ's  personal  righteousness  were  transferred 
to  believers,  they  would  be  as  perfectly  holy  as  Christ, 
and  stand  in  no  need  of  forgiveness, — but  believers  are 
not  conscious  of  having  Christ's  personal  righteousness, 
but  feel  and  bewail  much  inward  sin  and  corruption. 
And  the  scriptures  represent  believers  as  receiving  only 
the  benefits  of  Christ's  righteousness  in  justification,  or 
their  being  pardoned  and  accepted  for  Christ's  righteous- 
ness' sake.  And  this  is  the  proper  scripture  notion  of 
imputation. 

"The   Hopkinsians   warmly    advanced    the    doctrine    qf 
Divine  decrees,  the  doctrine  of  particular  election,  the  doc- 
trine   of  total   depravity,    the    doctrine    of  the    special    in- 
fluences of  the  Spirit  of  God  in  regeneration,  the  doctrine 


34         HISTORY  OF  ANDOVER   THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

of  justification  by  faith  alone,  the  final  perseverance  of  the 
saints,  and  the  consistency  between  entire  freedom  and 
absolute  dependence;  and  therefore  claim  it  as  their 
just  due — to  be  called  Hopkinsian  Calvinists." 

It  is  well  known  to  men  who  are  versed  in  theological 
learning,  that  the  3d,  4th,  5th,  6th,  7th,  9th,  and  10th  ar- 
ticles of  this  summary  are  contained  in  the  writings-  of 
the  'ablest  Calvinists,  though  not  generally  expressed  in 
the  same  manner  as  here.  The  substance  of  the  3d 
article  is  expressly  contained  in  the  Westminster  Con- 
fession of  Faith,  Chap.  16th,  Article  7th;  and  was  with 
great  zeal  maintained  both  in  the  pulpit  and  by  the 
pen  by  Hopkins,  Spring,  and  others.  But  they  did  it 
purely  on  Calvinistic  principles.  The  4th  article  is  as- 
serted by  several  former  Calvinists,  and  particularly 
insisted  on  by  Edwards,  and  other  Puritan  divines.  And 
when  they  explain  what  they  mean  by  the  phrase  natural 
ability  no  difficulty  remains.  For  no  Calvinist  holds, 
that  sinners  are  destitute  of  the  powers  and  faculties 
which  constitute  moral,  accountable  agents.  As  to  the 
9th  article; — no  judicious  Calvinist  holds  that  Adams  per- 
sonal act  was  our  personal  act,  or  that  his  sinful  act 
was  transferred  to  his  posterity  so  as  to  become  literally 
their  sinful  act.  And  as  to  article  10th — It  is  not  a  doc- 
trine of  Calvinism,  that  in  justification  the  righteousness 
of  Christ  is  transferred  to  believers  so  as  to  become  their 
personal  righteousness.  The  remarks  annexed  to  this 
article  show  that  Hopkinsians,  instead  of  denying  the 
doctrine  of  the  imputation  of  Christ's  righteousness  to 
believers,  expressly  maintained  it, — only  taking  care  to 
explain  what  they  understood  to  be  "the  scripture  notion 
of  it."  The  8th  article  agrees  or  not  with  the  Calvin- 
istic system,  according  as  the  terms  Kepentance  and 
Faith  are  understood.  Articles  1st  and  2d  may  be  con- 
sidered as  embodying  in  an  abstract  philosophical  form 


THEOLOGICAL    OPINIONS    AND    PARTIES.  35 

what  Calvinists  have  often  taught  in  other  ways  and 
sometimes  in  the  same  way.  But  the  truth  is  that 
these  statements  respecting  the  general  nature  of  holiness 
and  of  sin,  had  been  made  so  prominent  in  the  preaching 
and  writings  of  Hopkinsians,  and  had  been  defended  by 
them  with  an  earnestness  so  extraordinary,  and  had  fre- 
quently not  only  been  doubted  but  disliked  and  spoken 
against  by  ministers  of  less  strictness,  that  they  had  come 
to  be  esteemed  as  appropriate  and  distinguishing  tenets 
of  the  Hopkinsian  system.  And  the  same  was  true  ot 
other  points  of  doctrine,  which  had  under  different  forms 
sometimes  found  a  place  in  the  writings  of  the  more 
vehement  advocates  of  Calvinism,  but  which  had  been 
more  frequently  brought  into  notice  and  pushed  to  such 
unwonted  and  marvellous  extremes  by  Hopkinsians,  as 
to  excite  strong  prejudices  against  them,  and  to  charac- 
terize their  system, — not  indeed  according  to  the  very 
summary  and  guarded  statement  made  in  the  articles  above 
quoted;  but  according  to  the  opinion  which  prevailed  in 
the  community,  partly  from  misapprehension,  but  partly 
from  well-known  facts. 

Without  governing  myself  by  the  very  brief  summary 
above  laid  down,  I  shall  touch  upon  some  particular  points 
which  were  generally  understood  to  make  a  part  of  the 
Hopkinsian  system. 

One  of  the  points  which  Hopkinsians  held  in  common  with 
Fenelon  and  other  Pietists  was,  that  Christian  submission  im- 
plies a  ivillingness  to  endure  the  just  penalty  of  the  law  and  to  sacri- 
fice our  own  eternal  happiness,  or  to  be  cast  off  forever,  if  the  glory 
of  God  requires  it.  This,  or  like  this,  was  the  manner  in  which 
Hopkinsians  frequently  expressed  their  peculiar  sentiment. 

But  after  a  time  Dr.  Spring  and  several  other  Hopkinsian 
ministers  laid  aside  the  offensive  phraseology  which  had  been 
in  use,  and  contented  themselves  with  teaching  this  doctrine 
indirectly  or  by  implication,  and  in  more  acceptable  words. 
But  Dr.  Emmons  and  some  others  continued  fearlessly  to 


36         HISTORY  OF  ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY. 

hold  forth  these  doctrines  in  the  phraseology  introduced  by 
Dr.  Hopkins.1 

Another  of  the  points  peculiar  to  Hopkinsians  was  that 
God  is  the  direct  efficient  cause  of  sinful  exercises,  in  the  same 
manner  as  of  holy  exercises.  They  thought  that  the  principles 
of  Calvinism,  consistently  carried  out,  led  to  this  conclusion. 
But  neither  Edwards  nor  the  most  respectable  Calvinists  who 
preceded  him,  held  to  this  extreme  speculation.  And  after  a 
time  this  opinion  also  was  treated  more  guardedly  and  in  less 
offensive  terms  by  many  Hopkinsians. 

1  About  1809  or  10,  on  a  visit  to  Dr.  Emmons,  I  was  invited  to  attend  a 
meeting  at  a  private  house,  and  was  present  while  he  conversed  with  several 
persons,  who  were  under  serious  impressions  on  the  subject  of  religion. 
They  had  been  taught  that  a  willingness  to  be  cast  away  for  the  glory  of  God 
was  an  important  evidence  of  a  new  heart.  In  reply  to  the  questions  of  their 
minister,  they  said  one  after  another  that  their  hearts  were  opposed  to  the 
justice  of  God,  and  that*  they  were  not  yet  willing  to  be  cast  off.  He  told 
them  they  deserved  to  be  cast  off,  and  that  they  ought  to  be  willing  for  it,  and 
that  without  this  willingness  there  was  no  true  submission.  In  private  con- 
versation at  his  house,  I  told  Dr.  Emmons  this  was  new  language  to  me,  and 
that  I  questioned  the  propriety  of  it.  He  asked  why.  I  told  him  the  lan- 
guage was  liable  to  be  so  understood,  as  to  imply,  that  we  ought  to  set  a  low 
price  upon  our  own  souls,  and  not  to  care  much  whether  we  were  saved  or  lost, 
and  further,  that  the  statement  involved  an  absurdity,  seeing  that  any  one 
who  really  desired  to  glorify  God,  would  seek  to  do  it  not  by  submitting  to 
destruction,  but  by  accepting  salvation.  I  then  said  that  I  thought  the  truth 
he  intended  might  be  more  clearly  and  more  forcibly  expressed  in  another 
way.  He  asked  how.  My  reply  was  substantially  this,— sinners  deserve  to 
suffer  the  just  penalty  of  the  law,  that  is,  everlasting  punishment,  and  they 
ought  to  acknowledge  and  feel,  that  it  would  be  just  for  God  to  inflict  it;  in 
other  words,  they  ought  heartily  to  approve  the  justice  of  God,  and  to  glorify 
him  by  turning  from  sin  and  thankfully  accepting  the  holy  salvation  offered 
to  them  in  the  gospel.  I  then  inquired  of  him,  whether  his  statement  was 
meant  to  imply  any  more  than  this.  He  said  no.  I  once  had  a  similar  con- 
versation with  Dr.  Samuel  Spring  on  the  same  subject  and  with  the  same 
result.  He  acknowledged  that  the  statement  which  I  made  expressed  all 
that  was  intended  by  the  language  of  Hopkinsians.  He  and  Dr.  Emmons  had 
stated  the  subject  in  almost  the  same  manner  in  the  summary  of  Hopkinsian- 
ism,  which  they  prepared  for  Hannah  Adams'  "View  of  Religions."  The  fifth 
article  in  that  summary  is  "  that  in  order  to  faith  in  Christ  a  sinner  must  ap- 
prove in  his  heart  of  the  Divine  conduct,  even  though  God  should  cast  him 
off  forever."  The  obvious  meaning  is,  that  the  sinner  must  be  satisfied  in  his 
heart  that  the  conduct  of  God  would  be  just  if  he  should  cast  him  off,  in 
other  words,— must  be  satisfied  that  the  penalty  of  the  law  is  just,  that  the 
transgressor  deserves  endless  punishment,  and  that  God  would  be  just  if  he 
should  inflict  it. 


THEOLOGICAL   OPINIONS   AND    PARTIES.  37 

The  class  of  ministers  now  referred  to  were  also  distin- 
guished from  other  Calvinists,  by  strongly  asserting  mans  full 
ability  to  render  perfect  obedience  to  the  divine  law.  When  they 
explained  man's  ability  to  mean  the  possession  of  those  intel- 
lectual and  moral  faculties  which  constitute  him  a  moral 
agent,  a  proper  subject  of  moral  law,  leaving  him  without 
excuse  for  disobedience,  and  when  their  object  was  to  show 
that  man  is  under  no  such  inability  as  can  justify  him  for  im- 
penitence and  unbelief,  or  in  any  way  palliate  his  guilt,  it  was 
manifest  that  they  differed  not  in  meaning  from  other  orthodox 
divines.  But  Calvinists  in  general  adhered  to  the  language 
of  the  inspired  writers  on  the  subject,  and  seriously  appre- 
hended that  the  manner  in  which  Hopkinsians  asserted  the 
sinner's  full  ability,  and  the  prominence  they  gave  to  it  in 
their  preachings,  was  contrary  not  only  to  the  language  of 
the  inspired  writers,  but  to  the  experience  and  consciousness 
of  Christians,  and  tended  to  confirm  men  in  the  spirit  of  pride 
and  self-sufficiency,  instead  of  leading  them  to  trust  in  the 
grace  of  God  and  to  seek  that  grace  by  earnest  prayer.  The 
direct  and  frequent  assertion  of  human  ability  became  a  fa- 
vorite and  distinguishing  dogma  of  the  Hopkinsian  school, 
though  other  orthodox  divines  held,  in  common  with  them,  that 
sinners  have  no  such  inability  as  furnishes  any  excuse  for  sin. 

Dr.  Emmons  and  others  went  beyond  Hopkins.  Appre- 
hending that  the  common  doctrine  of  imputation  might 
imply  a  literal  transfer  of  personal  attributes  and  personal 
acts  from  one  moral  agent  to  another,  or,  more  particularly, 
such  a  transfer  of  Adam's  disobedience  to  his  posterity 
that  they  are  themselves  really  chargeable  with  his  sinful 
act,  and  in  their  own  persons  literally  blameworthy  for 
that  very  act;  and  that  the  sins  of  men  were  literally 
transferred  to  their  Kedeemer,  so  that,  in  the  sight  of  God, 
their  sinful  character  and  blameworthiness  became  per- 
sonally his,  and  again,  that  his  personal  righteousness  is 
transferred  to  believers  so  as  to  become  literally  their 
own  personal  righteousness — apprehending  that  the  doctrine 


38         HISTORY  OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

of  imputation  might  imply  all  this,  they  chose  to  waive 
it;  and  thus  through  an  unhappy  misconception  or  inad- 
vertence, as  to  the  authorized  sense  of  a  theological  word, 
they  denied  or  seemed  to  deny  a  doctrine  which  had  been 
so  well  explained  and  vindicated  by  Edwards,  and  the 
ablest  Calvinists  before  him,  and  is  affirmed  though  cau- 
tiously even  by  Hopkins  himself  in  his  "  System  of  Doc- 
trines," particularly  in  his  chapter  on  justification.  It  is  to  be 
lamented  that  Christian  divines,  and  I  among  them,  should 
have  fallen  into  an  obvious  mistake  as  to  the  meaning 
of  theological  terms  so  long  in  good  use,  and  -should  have 
rejected  or  seemed  to  reject  a  doctrine,  regarded  as  so 
scriptural  and  precious  by  our  Puritan  Ancestors,  and  by 
orthodox  churches  throughout  Christendom. 

Another  departure  of  Hopkinsians  from  the  creed  of 
Calvinists  respected  original  sin.  In  the  view  of  Edwards, 
Dwight,  Smalley,  and  previous  Calvinists,  there  is  in  the 
posterity  of  Adam  a  corruption  of  their  moral  nature,  a 
proneness  or  tendency  to  sin,  which  is  itself  morally  evil, 
and  is  the  source  of  all  actual  transgression.  But  Hopkin- 
sians denied  the  distinction  between  original  sin,  or  native 
corruption,  and  actual  sin,  and  held  that  all  sin  is  actual. 
Hopkins  held  that  actual  sin,  which  he  sometimes  calls  a 
depraved  inclination,  is  found  in  mankind  from  the  beginning 
of  their  existence,  or  as  soon  as  they  exist  as  the  posterity 
of  Adam,  in  other  words,  as  soon  as  they  have  a  moral 
nature,  or  a  soul.  In  accordance  with  this,  Emmons, 
according  to  his  biographer,  maintained  that  man  is  a 
sinner  as  soon  as  he  has  an  immortal  soul,  and  it  was  his 
opinion  that  if  any  infant  dies  before  it  is  an  actual  sinner, 
it  is  annihilated.  Thus  while  Hopkins  and  Emmons  and 
their  followers  denied  all  depravity  or  moral  corruption  of 
man's  nature  atitecendent  to  actual  sin,  they  carried  back 
actual  sin  to  the  commencement  of  human  existence.  Ac- 
cordingly they  were  required  by  their  theory  to  look  upon 
infants  of  a  day,  not  as  inheriting  a  morally  corrupt  nature 


THEOLOGICAL    OPINIONS   AND    PARTIES.  39 

which  will  certainly  lead  to  transgression,  but  as  being  ac- 
tual transgressors  at  the  very  beginning  of  their  existence. 

I  have  now  mentioned  the  chief  points  on  which  strict 
Hopkinsians,  differed  from  Calvinists  of  the  Edwardean 
School  who  adopted  the  theology  of  the  Puritans  as  set  forth 
in  their  writings  and  their  public  symbols. 

But  in  reality  Hopkinsians  were  not  more  distinguished 
by  their  efforts  to  defend  the  peculiar  opinions  above 
specified,  than  by  the  prominence  they  gave  to  the  grand 
principles  which  they  held  in  common  with  other  Calvinists, 
and  by  the  zeal  and  fidelity  with  which  they  taught  them 
both  from  the  pulpit  and  the  press.  The  doctrine  of  man's 
native  and  total  depravity,  in  consequence  of  Adam's  fall 
—the  doctrine  of  the  Divine  decrees,  particularly  election, — 
the  doctrine  of  the  Divinity  and  atonement  of  Christ, 
— the  doctrine  that  all  the  moral  actions  of  unrenewed  men 
are  sinful,  that  they  must  be  born  again  by  the  sovereign 
agency  of  the  Holy  Spirit, — that  repentance  and  faith  in 
Christ,  which  are  the  gift  of  God,  are  to  be  urged  upon 
sinners  as  their  immediate  duty, — that  believers  are  par- 
doned and  justified  solely  on  account  of  the  vicarious 
sufferings  and  perfect  righteousness  of  the  Kedeemer, — 
and  that  those  who  are  regenerated  and  justified  will  live 
a  new  life,  and  will  persevere  in  holy  obedience, — these 
and  other  doctrines  set  forth  in  the  Shorter  Catechism  and 
in  the  writings  of  Edwards,  formed  a  common  platform 
for  Calvinists  and  Hopkinsians:  that  is,  for  those  who 
maintained  the  principles  of  Calvinism,  confining  them- 
selves to  these;  and  those  who,  besides  maintaining  the 
principles  of  Calvinism,  held  the  opinions  peculiar  to 
Hopkins  and  Ermnons.  Hopkinsians  called  themselves  Cal- 
vinists, because  they  held  the  leading  doctrines  of  Calvinism. 
And  thorough  Calvinists  were  often  called  Hopkinsians, 
because  they  held  fast  to  the  principles  of  theology  which 
were  common  to  both  classes,  and  because  they  contended 
earnestly  for  those  principles,  and  for  a  corresponding  strict- 


40         HISTORY  OF  ANDOVER   THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

ness  in  the  concerns  of  the  church,  thus  far  agreeing  with 
Hopkinsians. 

I  have  said  that  Calvinists  of  the  Edwardean  School 
constituted  a  large  proportion  of  the  Congregational  min- 
isters of  New  England.  Edwards  was  constantly  spoken  of 
as  the  standard  or  type  of  New  England  theology.  Most 
of  those  who  instructed  theological  students,  as  Bellamy, 
Smalley,  Barton,  Backus,  D wight  and  Hooker,  belonged  to 
the  Edwardean  School,  and  their  pupils  generally  agreed 
with  them.  Dr.  Griffin,  Dr.  Ebr.  Porter,  Dr.  Samuel  Worces- 
ter, Dr.  Tyler,  and  Dr.  Nettleton,  belonged  to  the  same  class. 
If  they  were  called  Hopkinsians,  it  was  for  the  reason  above 
assigned,  namely,  because  they  taught  the  doctrines  of 
Calvinism  plainly  and  earnestly,  and  were  strict  in  church 
discipline.  If  any  one  insisted  upon  the  doctrine  of  Divine 
decrees  and  Divine  Providence  as  stated  in  the  Shorter 
Catechism; — upon  the  entire  and  native  depravity  of  man, 
and  the  sinfulness  of  his  moral  affections  and  acts;  upon  his 
perfect  obligation  to  obey  the  law  and  the  gospel,  and  the 
duty  of  immediate  repentance  and  faith;  upon  the  necessity 
of  regeneration  by  the  efficacious  operation  of  the  Holy 
Spirit;  upon  the  infinite  ill-desert  and  inexcusableness  of 
sin,  and  the  dependence  of  sinners  for  justification  and  eternal 
life  upon  the  free  grace  of  God  through  Jesus  Christ ;  if  any 
one  earnestly  held  forth  these,  and  other  kindred  doctrines 
and  taught  that  a  corresponding  Christian  experience  is 
indispensable  to  salvation,  he  was,  by  many,  called  a 
Hopkinsian,  although  he  adopted  none  of  the  opinions,  and 
none  of  the  forms  of  speech,  which  distinguished  Hopkins 
and  Emmons  from  the  acknowledged  standards  of  Calvinism. 
This  indefiniteness  in  the  meaning  of  a  word  has  often 
occasioned  mistakes,  against  which  we  should  very  care- 
fully guard. 

It  must  not  be  forgotten  that  the  bulk  of  Calvinistic 
ministers  in  New  England,  at  the  close  of  the  last  and 
the  beginning  of  the  present  century,  harmonized  with  Ed- 


THEOLOGICAL    OPINIONS   AND    PARTIES.  41 

wards;  and  that  only  a  small  number  held  to  the  speculations 
which  were  peculiar  to  Hopkins  and  Emmons  in  distinction 
from  Calvinists.  This  Drs.  Spring  and  Emmons  often  men- 
tioned as  a  matter  which  they  regretted.  And  this  was  well 
known  to  ministers  generally  who  lived  at  that  period.  But 
in  that  comparatively  small  number,  there  were  individuals 
who  regarded  their  peculiar  speculations  as  very  valuable 
improvements,  and  who  contended  for  them  as  of  the  highest 
importance,  and  who  were  moreover  too  plainly  inclined  to 
form  a  new  party,  separate  from  the  great  body  of  orthodox 
ministers  in  the  country. 

But  in  view  of  the  threatening  aspect  of  the  times,  par- 
ticularly the  wide  prevalence  of  Unitarianism  and  infidelity, 
the  generality  of  the  more  intelligent  and  pious  members  of  the 
Christian  community,  including  many  Hopkinsians,  became 
satisfied  that  the  above-mentioned  speculative  differences 
ought  to  be  waived,  so  as  to  prevent  a  new  schism  among 
the  friends  of  Scripture  truth,  and  that  the  orthodox  body 
of  ministers  and  churches  should  present  a  united  front, 
and,  on  the  ground  of  the  Reformed  Confessions  adopted  by 
the  Puritans,  should  act  harmoniously  and  with  all  their 
strength  in  opposing  gross  and  destructive  error. 

Such  then  was  the  state  of  the  religious  community,  arid 
such  were  the  classes  which  existed  among  the  Congrega- 
tional clergy  of  New  England.  There  were  first  the  decided 
Unitarians  and  Pelagians,  who  were  found  chiefly  in  Boston 
and  the  vicinity.  There  were,  secondly,  the  Semi- Calvinists 
or  Moderate  Calvinists,  many  of  them  real  Arminians,  but 
some  of  them  very  devout  and  pious.  Thirdly,  there  were 
the  decided,  earnest  Calvinists,  who  were  nearly  in  harmony 
with  Edwards  and  the  Puritan  standards.  These  consti- 
tuted the  greater  part  of  the  evangelical  ministry  in  New 
England.  Fourthly,  there  were  the  strict  Hopkinsians,  who 
were  zealous  advocates  of  Calvinistic  principles,  generally, 
and,  in  addition  to  these,  held  the  opinions  peculiar  to  Hop- 
kins and  Emmons.  These  were  more  distinctively  denomi- 


42         HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

nated  Hopkinsians.  Between  some  of  these  classes  there  was 
an  essential  mutual  repellancy.  The  difference  existing 
among  them  was  founded  on  principle,  and  could  not  be 
done  away  without  a  radical  change  on  one  side  or  the 
other.  Who,  for  example,  could  have  entertained  the  thought 
of  reconciling  Socinians  and  Trinitarians,  or  Pelagians  and 
Calvinists,  and  bringing  them  to  co-operate  in  the  same 
religious  publication  or  the  same  theological  school?  But 
between  thorough  Calvinists  arid  Hopkinsians  it  was  ob- 
viously different.  There  was  indeed  much  controversy  be- 
tween them,  but  no  open  rupture  of  ministerial  or  Chris- 
tian fellowship.  In  their  views  of  Christian  doctrine,  and  in 
their  spiritual  experience,  in  their  endeavors  to  make  known 
and  defend  the  plain  doctrines  of  the  gospel  and  to  promote 
the  cause  of  pure  and  undefiled  religion,  there  was  an  essen- 
tial agreement. 

But  although  there  was  a  substantial  agreement  between 
Calvinists  and  Hopkinsians,  and  a  real  foundation  for  union, 
there  appeared  at  that  time  no  small  tendency  to  division 
and  separate  action.  The  men  who  formed  the  Massachusetts 
Missionary  Society,  at  the  beginning  of  the  present  century, 
were  generally  decided  Hopkinsians,  and  almost  all  of  them 
were  called  Hopkinsians.  The  Massachusetts  Missionary  So- 
ciety in  1802  resolved  to  publish  a  monthly  magazine  as  a 
means  of  awakening  a  missionary  spirit  and  promote  pure 
religion,  and  chose  Drs.  Emmons,  Spring-,  Worcester,  and 
others,  as  editors.  But  the  patronage  which  they  secured 
was  very  limited,  and  on  account  of  the  general  character 
of  the  members,  and  of  the  magazine  which  was  their  organ, 
many  orthodox  ministers  in  the  State  regarded  the  whole 
movement  as  sectarian.  Accordingly  there  was  another 
Missionary  Society  formed  in  Hampshire  Co.,  which  acted 
by  itself  for  a  long  time.  And  in  1805  another  monthly 
magazine  was  commenced,  called  the  Panoplist.  Dr.  Morse 
had  a  leading  agency  in  introducing  this  periodical,  and  he 
applied  to  me  to  be  connected  with  him  as  an  editor.  I 


THEOLOGICAL   OPINIONS   AND    PARTIES.  43 

belonged  to  the  Massachusetts  Missionary  Society  and  had 
been  a  contributor  to  their  Magazine.  But  the  declared 
design  of  the  Panoplist,  which  was  to  advocate  and  support 
the  doctrines  of  the  Puritans  and 'of  the  reformed  churches 
generally,  corresponded  entirely  with  my  views,  and  I 
consented  to  the  proposal  of  Dr.  Morse  to  be  one  of  its 
editors.  This  periodical  was  favored  generally  by  the  Or- 
thodox in  New  England.  These  two  periodicals  being  for 
a  time  regarded  by  many  as  the  organs  of  two  parties, 
their  existence  in  the  same  community  had  a  tendency  to 
foster  prejudices  and  in  the  end  to  produce  strife  and  di- 
vision. And  that  which  was  most  of  all  alarming  and 
which  threatened  to  bring  on  a  permanent  division  among 
the  Orthodox,  was  the  fact,  as  the  sequel  will  show,  that 
the  two  parties  were  about  to  institute  two  Theological 
Seminaries  in  the  same  vicinity,  which  would  naturally 
involve  rivalship  and  mutual  opposition. 

At  this  period,  when  the  Orthodox  body  was  on  the 
point  of  dividing  its  forces,  Divine  providence  remarkably 
interposed,  and  a  favorable  turn  soon  began  to  be  experi- 
enced. The  editors  and  patrons  of  the  Panoplist  exerted 
themselves  to  the  utmost  to  check  existing  tendencies  to 
division,  and  to  promote  the  spirit  of  love  and  concord 
among  all  the  friends  of  evangelical  religion.  A  consider- 
able number  of  Hopkinsians,  and  many  Calvinists,  were 
weary  of  evil  stirmisings  and  contentions,  and  were  dis- 
posed to  follow  the  things  that  make  for  peace.  They 
considered  it  to  be  of  essential  importance  to  the  sup- 
port of  Divine  truth  and  to  the  welfare  of  the  churches, 
that  the  different  classes  of  the  Orthodox  should  dismiss 
their  disputes  and  prejudices,  and  unite  their  efforts  to 
oppose  heresy  and  irreligion,  and  to  promote  the  cause  of 
Christ. 

There  were  three  forms  of  union  which  were  considered 
to  be  of  great  moment,  and  which  were  pursued  in  different 
ways  with  persevering  zeal,  and  with  final  success. 


44         HISTORY  OF  ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL   SEMINARY. 

1.  Union  of  the  two  monthly  publications,  the   Massa- 
chusetts Missionary  Magazine  and  the  Panoplist. 

2.  Union  in  a  General  Association. 

3.  Union  in  a  Theological  Seminary. 

The  union  of  the  Massachusetts  Missionary  Magazine  and 
the  Panoplist  had  for  some  time  been  the  subject  of  serious 
discussion  between  the  parties  interested,  as  appears  from 
the  Letters  published  in  the  Appendix.  The  arguments  for 
and  against  the  union,  had  been  freely  stated  and  carefully 
considered.  The  objections  which  Dr.  Spring  made  to  the 
measure  when  first  proposed,  had  been  gradually  removed. 
The  Panoplist  had  been  long  enough  before  the  public  to 
obtain  a  settled  reputation.  And  although  Dr.  Spring  had 
been  unwilling  that  I  should  have  any  direct  agency  in 
favor  of  a  publication  which  was  likely  to  interfere  with 
the  success  of  the  Magazine,  he  took  no  exception  to  what 
I  had  done  for  it,  either  as  an  editor  or  as  a  writer.  In- 
deed he  declared  himself  much  more  satisfied  than  he 
expected  to  be  with  the  principles  which  the  publication 
had  maintained,  and  with  the  influence  it  had  exerted  in 
the  cause  of  pure  and  undefiled  religion.  And  with  most 
of  the  good  men,  with  whom  he  was  intimately  associated, 
he  had  felt  a  growing  confidence  in  the  orthodoxy  and  use- 
fulness of  the  Panoplist.  And  after  much  thought  and  much 
consultation,  he,  and  the  greater  part  of  the  Society,  deemed 
it  expedient  that  the  Magazine  should  be  joined  with  the 
Panoplist,  and  that  the  united  publication  should  be  under 
the  direction  of  those  who  had  been  editors  of  the  Panoplist. 
The  union  was  agreed  upon  and  carried  into  effect  in  June, 
1808.  This  measure  was  in  reality  a  step  towards  that  more 
general  plan  of  union  and  combined  action  among  the 
Orthodox,  which  was  subsequently  accomplished.  But  it 
was  a  matter  of  deep  regret  that  this  and  every  similar 
proceeding,  was  looked  upon  with  fear  and  dissatisfaction 
by  so  great  and  excellent  a  man  as  Dr.  Emmons.  The 


THEOLOGICAL    OPINIONS    AND    PARTIES.  45 

consequences  of  this  united  publication  were  however  al- 
most universally,  considered  as  of  great  consequence  to 
the  cause  of  Christ. 

Another  form  of  union  above  mentioned,  was  the  estab- 
lishment of  a  General  Association  in  Massachusetts. 

The  design  to  bring  about  such  a  union  was  the  result 
of  a  general  impression  among  the  Orthodox,  that  the  co- 
operation of  the  friends  of  Christianity  was  imperiously 
called  for,  as  a  means  of  counteracting  infidelity  and 
wickedness,  and  preserving  in  its  purity  the  religion  of 
our  forefathers. 

In  1802  Delegates  from  eight  District  Associations  met  at 
Northampton ;  and  they  agreed  that  the  formation  of  a  General 
Association  was  expedient,  and  they  recommended  as  a  basis 
of  their  union  an  acknowledgment  of  the  doctrine  expressed 
in  the  Assembly's  Catechism.  In  1803  representatives  of 
five  District  Associations  met  at  Northampton.  There  was 
at  that  period  much  conversation  and  correspondence  among 
ministers  relative  to  the  formation  of  such  a  body.  And 
in  1804  the  subject  was  introduced  into  the  convention  of 
Congregational  ministers  in  Boston,  by  Dr.  Lyman  of  Hadley. 
The  Convention  chose  a  committee  to  write  to  the  District 
Associations  in  the  State,  and  to  ascertain  their  views  re- 
lative to  such  a  measure.  The  result  was,  that  Unitarians 
were  universally  opposed.  Dr.  Emmons  was  not  favorable 
to  it,  and  for  a  time  Dr.  Spring  felt  as  he  did.  Berkshire 
Association,  through  Dr.  Stephen  West,  replied,  that  they 
would  cheerfully  unite  in  forming  a  General  Association 
"provided  they  could  have  as  the  basis  of  it  a  Calvinistic 
Confession  of  Faith."  The  next  year  the  first  number  of  the 
Panoplist  was  published,  and  the  editors  of  this  periodical, 
in  accordance  with  the  recommendation  of  the  delegates 
of  eight  associations  assembled  at  Northampton  in  1802,  and 
with  the  suggestion  of  Dr.  West  in  behalf  of  .the  Berkshire 
Association,  advocated  the  adoption  of  the  Assembly's  Shorter 
Catechism  as  the  basis  of  the  General  Association. 


46         HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

The  number  of  Associations  that  joined  the  general  body 
increased  from  year  to  year.  In  1810  the  General  Association 
met  at  Bradford,  at  which  meeting  they  made  an  alteration 
in  the  form  of  their  Confession  of  Faith.  Previously  it 
had  stood  thus:  "That  the  doctrines  of  the  Assembly's 
Shorter  Catechism  be  considered  as  the  basis  of  the  union 
of  our  churches."  It  was  altered  so  as  to  read  thus:  "That 
the  above  doctrines  (the  doctrines  contained  in  the  Catechism), 
understood  by  us  to  be  distinctively  those  which  from  the  be- 
ginning have  been  generally  embraced  by  the  churches  of  New 
England  as  the  doctrines  of  the  gospel,  be  considered  as  the 
basis  of  our  union"  The  meeting  was  large  and  the  pro- 
ceedings harmonious.  It  had  been  a  subject  of  inquiry, 
whether  we  should  not  make  the  Associate  Creed  of  the 
Andover  Seminary  the  basis  of  the  General  Association. 
But  the  Assembly's  Catechism  was  preferred,  and  the  doc- 
trines which  it  exhibits  were  declared  to  be  distinctively 
those,  which  from  the  beginning  had  been  generally  embraced 
by  the  churches  of  New  England  as  the  doctrines  of  the  Gospel. 
Thus  the  General  Association  of  Massachusetts  agreed  to 
the  same  doctrinal  standard  which  was  adopted  by  our 
forefathers  in  1648,  and  again  in  1680.  And  this  same 
symbol  has  been  continued  as  the  basis  of  union  among 
the  ministers  who  are  connected  with  our  General  Association. 
Thus  existing  differences  of  opinion  among  the  Orthodox 
have  been  waived,  and  all  parties  have  publicly  united  in 
adhering  to  the  religious  principles  of  our  Puritan  an- 
cestors, and  in  adopting  what  Dr.  Stephen  West  proposed, 
"a  Calvinistic  Confession  of  Faith." 

The  happy  tendency  towards  the  union  among  the  differ- 
ent classes  of  the  Orthodox,  which  was  manifested  in  the  joint 
publication  of  the  Panoplist  and  Missionary  Magazine,  and  in 
the  General  Association,  showed  itself  still  more  remarkably, 
during  1807  and  1808,  in  the  founding  of  a  united  Theological 
Seminary.  The  facts  relating  to  this  subject  will  be  particu- 
larly set  forth  in  the  following  chapters. 


CHAPTER    III. 

THE   FOUNDATION   OF   THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY   TRACED    TO    THE 

CHARTER    OF    PHILLIPS    ACADEMY,    AND    TO    THE    INTENDED 

BEQUESTS   OF    SAMUEL   ABBOT,    ESQ.,    OF   ANDOVER. 

DURING  the  year  1806,  in  the  county  of  Essex,  in  Mass- 
achusetts, two  separate  and  independent  movements  in  be- 
half of  a  Theological  School  were  commenced  by  two  sets 
of  men,  whose  intentions  and  measures  were  at  first  wholly 
unknown  to  each  other.  One  of  these  movements  centered 
in  Andover,  the  other  in  Newburyport,  As  Phillips 
Academy  in  Andover  was  the  foundation  on  which  the 
Theological  Institution  was  erected,  and  as  all  subsequent 
donations  made  to  it,  for  the  purpose  of  introducing  differ- 
ent departments  of  instruction,  or  in  any  way  increasing 
its  means  of  usefulness,  were  to  be  in  conformity  with  its 
Constitution  and  the  express  design  of  its  Founders,  it 
seems  proper  and  necessary  first  of  all  to  give  a  brief 
account  of  the  establishment  of  the  Academy,  and  of  the 
objects  which  it  was  intended  to  accomplish. 

Phillips  Academy  in  Andover  was  founded  in  1778  by 
Hon.  Samuel  Phillips  of  Andover  and  his  brother  Hon.  John 
Phillips  of  Exeter,  N.  H.  These  men  were  the  sons  of  the 
Rev.  Samuel  Phillips  who  was  ordained  as  minister  of  the 
gospel,  in  the  South  Parish  in  Andover  in  1711,  and  whose 
Christian  principles  and  habits  were  those  of  the  Puritans. 
His  sons  inherited  his  excellent  character.  The  Hon. 
Samuel  Phillips,  Lieut-Governor  of  Massachusetts,  who 
was  the  eon  of  the  above  named  Hon.  Samuel  Phillips  of 


48         HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

Andover,  was  born  Feb.  5,  1752.  He  was  honored  with 
several  important  public  offices,  and  in  all  of  them  mani- 
fested enlarged  benevolence  and  the  strictest  integrity. 
But  it  is  most  to  my  purpose  to  speak  of  his  influence  in 
founding  Phillips  Academy.  He  was  the  sole  heir  of  the 
estate  of  his  father,  and  of  his  uncle,  John  Phillips  of 
Exeter.  When  he  was  just  entering  on  his  public  life, 
being  without  any  estate  of  his  own,  he  proposed  to  his 
father  and  uncle  to  found  a  literary  Institution  in  Andover; 
and  did  all  he  could  to  induce  them,  even  in  those 
troublous  times,  to  enter  on  the  work  without  delay. 
It  was  he,  unquestionably,  who  had  the  principal  agency 
in  framing  the  Constitution  of  the  Academy,  though  prob- 
ably he  had  the  aid  of  Eliphalet  Pearson,  who  was  then 
teacher  in  the  Grammar  School  in  Andover. 

Although  the  principal  design  of  the  Founders  of  the 
Academy  was  to  promote  virtue  and  piety,  and  impart  the 
rudiments  of  an  English  and  a  classical  education,  they  seem 
to  have  had  a  clear  foresight  of  what  the  interests  of  re- 
ligion might  afterwards  call  for,  and  in  their  Constitution 
made  the  following  provision  for  theological  instruction  in 
the  Academy,  to  wit: — "  And,  whereas  many  of  the  students 
in  this  Seminary  may  be  devoted  to  the  sacred  work  of  the 
gospel  ministry;  that  the  true  and  fundamental  principles 
of  the  Christian  religion,  may  be  cultivated,  established, 
and  perpetuated  in  the  Christian  Church,  so  far  as  this  In- 
stitution may  have  influence;  it  shall  be  the  duty  of  the 
Master,  as  the  age  and  capacities  of  the  scholars  will 
admit,  not  only  to  instruct  and  establish  them  in  the  truths 
of  Christianity;  but  also  early  and  diligently  to  inculcate 
in  them  the  great  and  important  scripture  doctrines,  of 
the  existence  of  one  true  God,  the  Father,  Son  and  Holy 
Ghost;  of  the  fall  of  man,  the  depravity  of  human  nature; 
the  necessity  of  an  atonement,  and  of  our  being  renewed  in 
the  spirit  of  our  minds;  the  doctrines  of  repentance 
toward  God  and  of  faith  toward  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ;  of 


THE    FOUNDATION    OF    THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY.     49 

sanctification  by  the  Holy  Spirit,  and  of  justification  by  the 
free  grace  of  God,  through  the  redemption  that  is  in  Jesus 
Christ;  (in  opposition  to  the  erroneous  and  dangerous  doc- 
trine of  justification  by  our  own  merit;  or  a  dependence  on 
self-righteousness,)  together  with  the  other  important  doc- 
trines and  duties  of  our  holy  Christian  Religion." 

In  pursuance  of  this  design,  the  Hori.  John  Phillips  of 
Exeter,  N.  H.,  one  of  the  Founders  aforesaid,  gave  $20,000  for 
the  education  of  youth  of  genius  and  serious  disposition  in 
the  Academy.  And  to  complete  his  liberality,  he  after- 
wards bequeathed  two-thirds  of  his  estate  to  the  Academy 
in  Exeter,  N.  H.,  and  one-third  to  the  Academy  in  Andover,  for 
the  benefit  more  especially  of  charity  scholars,  such  as  may 
be  of  excelling  genius  and  of  good  moral  character,  pre- 
ferring the  hopefully  pious;  and  such  of  them  as  are  de- 
signed for  the  "  gospel  ministry,  having  acquired  the  most 
useful  human  literature  in  either  of  the  Academies  or 
other  Seminaries,  may  be  assisted  in  the  study  of  divinity — 
under  the  direction  of  some  eminent  Calvinistic  minister 
of  the  gospel,  until  an  able,  pious  and  Orthodox  instructor 
shall  be  employed  in  one  of  the  Academies  as  a  Professor 
of  Divinity,  by  whom  they  may  be  taught  the  important 
principles  and  distinguishing  tenets  of  our  holy  Christian 
Religion."  To  this  fund  the  Hon.  William  Phillips  of  Bos- 
ton, father  of  the  late  William  Phillips,  Lieut. -Govern  or  of  Mass- 
achusetts, added  $4000.  Upon  this  foundation,  about  twelve 
students  in  Divinity  were  maintained  in  whole  or  in  part, 
from  1797  to  1808,  under  the  direction  of  the  Rev.  Jonathan 
French.  Among  these,  are  the  names  of  Samuel  Stearns, 
James  Kendal,  Jonathan  French,  Jun.,  Joshua  Bates,  Samuel 
Walker,  Samuel  Gile,  David  T.  Kimball  and  Abraham  Bod- 
well.  John  Farrar,  late  Professor  in  Harvard  College, 
and  some  others,  pursued  their  theological  studies  in  An- 
dover, though  not  supported  by  this  fund. 

The  above-mentioned  provision  for  the  support  of  theolog- 
ical students  in  Phillips  Academy,  is  distinctly  referred  to  in 


50         HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

the  preamble  to  the  Constitution  of  the  Theological  Seminary; 
and  the  Founders  declare  it  to  be  in  pursuance  of  the  same 
pious  design  that  they  established  the  Seminary.  Thus 
Phillips  Academy  is  recognized  as  the  germ  of  the  Theo- 
logical Institution. 

Phillips  Academy,  which  was  founded  and  its  Constitution 
completed  and  executed  by  its  Founders  in  1778,  was  incor- 
porated by  an  act  of  the  General  Court  in  1780,  in  which  act 
the  most  important  provisions  of  the  Constitution  of  the 
Founders  were  incorporated  and  confirmed. 

Besides  the  article  above  quoted  from  the  Constitution  of 
the  Academy  the  Founders  made  known  their  will  in  the 
following  provision,  to  wit,  "And,  whereas  the  most  whole- 
some precepts,  without  frequent  repetition,  may  prove  ineffec- 
tual; it  is  farther  required  of  the  Master,  that  he  not  only  urge 
and  re-urge ;  but  continue  from  day  to  day,  to  impress  these  in- 
structions." "  And  let  him  ever  remember  that  the  design 
of  this  Institution  can  never  be  answered,  without  his  per- 
severing, incessant  attention  to  his  duty." 

"  And,  in  order  to  prevent  the  smallest  perversion  of  the 
true  intent  of  this  foundation,  it  is  again  declared  that  the 
first  and  principal  object  of  this  Institution  is  the  promotion 
of  true  PIETY  and  VIRTUE;  the  second,  instruction  in  the  English, 
Latin  and  Greekjanguages,  together  with  Writing,  Arithmetic, 
Music  and  the  Art  of  Speaking;  the  third,  practical  Geometry, 
Logic,  and  Geography;  the  fourth,  such  other  of  the  liberal 
Arts  and  Sciences  or  Languages  as  opportunity  and  ability 
may  hereafter  admit  and  as  the  Trustees  shall  direct." 

"  And  we  hereby  reserve  to  ourselves,  during  any  part  of 
our  natural  lives,  the  full  right  jointly  to  make  any  special 
Rules  for  the  perpetual  government  of  this  Institution ;  which 
shall  be  equally  binding  on  those,  whom  they  may  concern, 
with  any  clause  in  these  Regulations;  provided  no  such  Rule 
shall  be  subversive  of  the  TRUE  DESIGN,  herein  expressed." 

Such  was  the  early  beginning  (coeval  with  the  independ- 
ent existence  of  our  nation)  of  that  pious  and  magnificent 


THE    FOUNDATION    OF    THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY.     51 

charity,  which  subsequently  rendered  Andover  for  many 
years  the  principal  seat  of  theological  education  in  our 
country. 

It  is  obvious  on  the  one  hand,  that  the  establishment  in 
the  Academy  of  an  Institution  for  teaching  Orthodox  Chris- 
tianity to  theological  students  was  not  only  consistent  with 
the  original  design  of  the  Academy,  but  was  distinctly  con- 
templated by  its  Founders,  and  on  the  other  hand  that  it  was 
not  consistent  for  the  Trustees  to  receive  donations  for  the 
maintenance  of  any  other  system  of  Divinity,  than  that  which 
the  Founders  regarded  as  "Orthodox"  or  "Calvinistic."  And 
it  may  be  taken  as  a  further  explanation  of  their  views  on 
the  subject,  that  not  only  their  ancestors  but  that  they  them- 
selves held  fast  to  the  doctrines  of  the  Puritans,  and  that  one 
of  them  made  provision  for  the  gratuitous  distribution  of  the 
Assembly's  Shorter  Catechism  among  the  people  of  Andover. 

We  shall  now  contemplate  a  subsequent  series  of  events 
and  circumstances,  which  more  or  less  directly  led  on  to  the 
founding  of  a  Theological  Institution  on  the  basis  of  Phillips 
Academy. 

The  first  principal  of  Phillips  Academy  was  the  late 
Eliphalet  Pearson,  LL.D.  He  first  gave  the  Academy  that 
reputation  for  thorough  scholarship,  good  order,  and  moral 
and  religious  influence,  which  it  has  maintained  ever  since. 
In  1785  he  was  chosen  Hancock  Professor  of  Hebrew  in 
Harvard  College,  with  the  additional  duty  of  instructing  in 
English  Grammar  and  Composition.  Dr.  Pearson  was  pos- 
sessed of  a  powerful  understanding  and  of  extensive  learning, 
and  particularly,  with  a  profound  knowledge  of  his  depart- 
ment. As  a  Professor  in  the  College  he  was  eminently  use- 
ful, and  was  held  in  high  estimation.  I  have  ever  considered 
his  instructions  as  constituting  at  least  one  half  the  value  of 
my  collegiate  education.  He  was  indeed  remarkably  strict 
in  demanding  of  the  students  a  diligent  and  faithful  atten- 
tion to  their  prescribed  course  of  study,  and  he  visited  palpa- 
ble delinquences  with  no  small  severity  of  reproof.  But  a 


52         HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

reasonable  proficiency  in  learning,  united  with  a  modest  and 
dutiful  deportment,  was  sure  to  meet  with  his  decided  ap- 
proval. No  other  officer  in  the  College  had  equal  influence 
in  promoting  improvement  in  literature,  and  the  higher  in- 
terest of  morality  and  piety.  If  any  business  of  special  im- 
portance and  difficulty  was  to  be  done,  such  as  making  out  a 
plan  and  framing  statutes  for  a  new  Professorship,  he  was 
the  man  to  do  it. 

These  few  remarks  have  been  made  for  the  purpose  of 
showing  how  eminently  Dr.  Pearson  was  qualified  for  the 
important  work  which  afterwards  devolved  upon  him  relative 
to  the  Theological  Institution;  and  for  the  purpose  also  of 
acknowledging  the  debt  of  gratitude  which  is  due  to  him 
from  me  and  from  many  others  for  his  distinguished  services 
in  Harvard  College,  and  of  rendering  to  him,  as  far  as  I  am 
able,  that  respect  and  honor,  which  those  to  whom  the  duty 
specially  belonged  have  neglected  to  render. 

After  the  death  of  President  Willard,  which  took  place  in 
September,  1804,  the  general  duties  of  the  Presidency  were 
discharged  by  Dr.  Pearson.  During  that  critical  period  in  the 
history  of  the  College  and  of  New  England,  when  it  was  pro- 
posed to  fill  the  office  of  Hollis  Professor  of  Divinity  and  of 
President,  with  Unitarians,  Dr.  Pearson  maintained  a  firm  and 
almost  solitary  opposition  in  the  Board  of  Fellows,  of  which 
he  was  a  member.  And  when  the  deed  was  consummated, 
and  the  Kev.  Henry  Ware,  in  1805,  had  been  elected  as  Hollis 
Professor,  and  Professor  Webber,  in  March,  1806,  was  elected 
as  President,  Dr.  Pearson  was  fully  persuaded  that  the  in- 
terests of  evangelical  religion,  so  perilled  at  the  University, 
called  for  some  new  and  more  vigorous  efforts  for  their  de- 
fence; and  with  this  persuasion  he  resigned  his  office  as  Pro- 
fessor, and  his  seat  in  the  Corporation,  on  March  20th,  1806. 
A  little  before  this  time  the  Committee  of  Exigencies  of 
Phillips  Academy  passed  the  following  resolution : — 

"  Whereas  it  is  understood  that  Dr.  Pearson  is  about  ,to 
leave  his  present  situation  at  Cambridge, — in  consideration 


THE    FOUNDATION    OF    THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY.     53 

of  the  long,  faithful  and  important  services  he  has  rendered 
this  Academy  from  its  first  institution,  and  in  hope  of  enjoy- 
ing his  further  aid  and  future  patronage  and  support, 

"  Toted,  That  he  be  invited  to  return  and  reside  in  this 
town,  and  that  the  use  of  the  house  lately  built  by  the  Trustees 
in  the  vicinity  of  the  Academy  be  tendered  to  him  for  one 
year,  free  of  expense." 

In  compliance  with  this  generous  invitation  he  re- 
turned to  Andover  after  an  absence  of  twenty  years. 

Here,  in  connection  with  others,  he  considerately  began  to 
take  measures  for  the  establishment  of  an  Institution  which 
should  maintain  the  doctrines  of  the  fathers  of  New  England 
against  the  threatening  apostacies  of  the  times. 

Another  conspicuous  agent  who  was  closely  associated 
with  Dr.  Pearson  in  efforts  for  the  promotion  of  evangelical 
religion  was  the  Rev.  Jedidiah  Morse,  D.D.,  of  Charlestown, 
Mass.  As  one  of  the  Overseers  of  Harvard  College,  he  had 
sustained  the  same  part  as  had  been  sustained  by  Dr.  Pear- 
son in  the  Corporation;  and  in  all  the  measures  afterwards 
taken  for  the  establishment  of  a  Theological  Institution, 
he  had  the  same  conviction  with  Dr.  Pearson  of  the  impe- 
rious necessity  of  lifting  a  standard  against  the  errors,  both 
in  doctrine  and  in  practice,  which  were  coming  in  like  a 
flood  upon  the  churches  of  the  Puritans. 

As  a  Trustee  of  Phillips  Academy,  he  had  become  ac- 
quainted with  Mr.  Abbot  and  all  his  benevolent  purposes, 
and  was  one  of  his  confidential  friends  and  advisers.  As 
a  Geographer  and  as  an  Editor  of  the  Panoplist,  he  had 
acquired  a  very  extensive  knowledge  of  ministers  and 
Christians,  and  of  the  concerns  of  religion  not  only  in 
Boston  and  New  England,  but  in  all  parts  of  the  country, 
and  was  thus  qualified  to  judge  what  measures  would  be 
adapted  to  meet  the  exigencies  of  the  religious  community. 
He  had  an  ardent  love  for  the  doctrines  of  the  reformation, 
regarding  them,  however,  not  so  much  in  an  abstract  or 
theoretic,  as  in  a  practical  view.  He  possessed  a  fertile  im 


54         HISTORY  OF  ANDOVER   THEOLOGICAL   SEMINARY. 

agination,  the  power  of  ready  thought,  and  the  pen  of  a 
ready  writer,  and  an  extraordinary  habit  of  despatch.  It 
will  appear  in  the  sequel,  that  the  qualities  of  his  mind 
and  his  condition  in  society  fitted  him  to  exert  a  conspicu- 
ous influence  relative  to  the  founding  of  the  Theological 
Institution. 

Another  of  the  chief  agents  in  this  important  business, 
was  Samuel  Farrar,  Esq.,  of  Andover,  who  was  a  correct  and 
judicious  lawyer,  and  by  his  intelligence,  religious  princi- 
ples and  sound  discretion,  was  peculiarly  fitted  to  act  the 
part  to  which  Divine  providence  called  him  in  relation  to 
a  Theological  Institution.  He  was  to  assist  the  generous 
Founders  in  maturing  and  executing  their  general  design 
to  promote  theological  education.  The  work  assigned  to 
him  was  important  and  difficult,  requiring  much  careful 
thought,  practical  wisdom  and  patient  labor.  Mr.  Farrar 
was  qualified,  as  no  other  man  was,  to  perform,  in  concert 
with  others,  that  retired  but  weighty  task  which  was 
allotted  to  him.  His  agency  was  indispensable.  He  was 
raised  up  "for  such  a  time  as  this." 

These  three  were  associated  with  several  others,  namely, 
Rev.  Jonathan  French,  Rev.  Dr.  Chaplin  of  Groton,  and 
Mark  Newman;  but  as  counsellors  and  agents,  those  for- 
merly named  had  the  chief  influence. 

Soon  after  Dr.  Pearson  removed  to  Andover,  he  began, 
with  others,  to  take  measures  relative  to  the  founding  of 
a  Theological  Institution  in  Phillips  Academy ;  and  in  July, 
1806,  an  Association  was  formed,  all  but  one  being  Trustees 
of  the  Academy,  and  held  several  meetings  to  consider  the 
importance  of  such  an  Institution.  The  following  is  copied 
from  the  original  record  of  these  meetings  in  the  handwrit- 
ing of  Samuel  Farrar,  Esq.,  who  acted  as  scribe. 

"July  10,  1806,  a  voluntary  Association  of  the  following 
individuals,  namely,  Dr.  Pearson,  Dr.  Morse,  Mr.  French, 
Dr.  Chaplin,  Samuel  Abbot,  Mark  Newman  and  Samuel 
Farrar,  met  at  Madame  Phillips'  house  in  Andover  arid 


THE    FOUNDATION   OF    THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY.      55 

conversed  on  the  subject  of  a  Theological  School;  and  they 
requested  Dr.  Pearson  to  write  on  the  necessity  and  ad- 
vantages of  such  an  Institution.  At  a  subsequent  meeting, 
in  September,  1806,  the  draft  prepared  by  Dr.  Pearson  was 
accepted;  and  it  was  afterwards  printed  in  a  pamphlet,  and 
in  the  Panoplist,  under  the  title  of  "Thoughts  on  the  Im- 
portance of  a  Theological  Institution."  The  members  also 
pledged  themselves  individually,  to  use  their  best  endeavors 
to  bring  such  an  Institution  into  a  speedy  existence. 

At  the  same  meeting  Dr.  Pearson,  Dr.  Morse,  Mr.  French, 
John  Phillips,  Jun.,  and  Mr.  Farrar,  were  chosen  as  a  Com- 
mittee, to  draft  the  outlines  of  a  Constitution  for  such  a 
Seminary.  At  a  subsequent  meeting  in  October,  the  draft 
of  a  Constitution  was  read  and  committed  for  future 
examination.1 

These  initial  measures  were  not  taken  in  the  dark,  but 
were  grounded  on  the  knowledge  which  these  gentlemen 
had  of  the  intention  of  Samuel  Abbot,  Esq.,  in  regard  to 
a  Theological  School.  The  intention  of  Mr.  Abbot  at  that 
time,  was  to  make  provision  in  his  will  for  the  establish- 
ment of  a  Theological  Institution  in  Phillips  Academy. 
We  have  seen  that  such  an  Institution  was  contemplated 
by  the  Original  Founders  of  the  Academy  and  was  pro- 
vided for  in  their  Constitution ;  and  that  theological  edu- 
cation had  already  been  commenced  on  the  foundation  laid 
in  the  Academy  by  one  of  the  Founders  for  that  very 
purpose. 

Here  is  the  place  to  make  particular  mention  of  Samuel 
Abbot,  Esq.,  the  knowledge  of  whose  benevolent  intentions 
was  communicated  confidentially  to  Dr.  Pearson  and  the 
other  individuals  above  named,  and  inspired  them  with 
courage  and  zeal  in  prosecuting  their  favorite  object. 

Samuel  Abbot  was  born  in  Andover,  1732.  He  was 
trained  a  merchant  in  Boston,  and  commenced  business  for 

1  See  the  original  records  in  the  keeping  of  the  Trustees. 


56         HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

himself  in  1753.  He  married  widow  Sarah  Kneeland,  who 
by  her  intelligence  and  industry  aided  him  in  the  acquisi- 
tion of  property,  and  was  of  the  same  mind  with  him  in 
the  distribution  of  it.  At  the  commencement  of  the  Revo- 
lution, he  retired  with  a  moderate  estate  to  his  native  town. 
There,  by  economy  and  a  skilful  management  of  his  busi- 
ness, with  the  Divine  blessing,  his  property  was  greatly  in- 
creased. In  his  personal  character  he  was  distinguished  for 
a  meek  and  humble  spirit,  for  discretion,  integrity,  and  habit- 
ual devotion.  He  had  no  children,  but  he  set  his  affections 
on  a  grandson  of  his  wife,  and  intended  to  give  him  a  portion 
of  his  estate.  But  that  grandson  disappointed  his  hopes  and 
died  in  early  life.  He  was  accordingly  left  at  liberty  to  de- 
vote his  property  to  the  interests  of  religion,  which  became 
more  and  more  his  favorite  object.  But,  although  he  was 
always  ready  for  the  more  common  acts  of  charity,  he  re- 
solved that  his  chief  contributions  should  be  directed  to 
the  right  education  of  pious  young  men  for  the  gospel 
ministry.  This  object  was  the  more  deeply  impressed  upon 
his  mind,  by  what  had  already  been  done  for  that  object 
in  Phillips  Academy,  of  which  he  was  a  Trustee.  Two  of 
the  Trustees  were  Professors  in  Harvard  College,  that  is, 
Dr.  Pearson  and  Dr.  Tappan.  And  these  were  among  the 
men  whose  advice  Mr.  Abbot  followed  in  the  appropria- 
tion of  his  property. 

Mr.  Abbot  was  a  man  of  great  simplicity  and  caution. 
He  was  slow  to  decide  on  questions  of  importance  and  was 
less  remarkable  for  his  intelligence  and  strength  of  character 
than  for  his  judgment  in  the  choice  of  his  counsellors. 
Having  come  to  a  settled  determination  to  devote  most 
of  his  estate  to  a  benevolent  and  pious  use,  he  was  free 
from  perplexity  and  enjoyed  constant  peace  of  mind.  He 
contemplated  his  object  with  a  satisfaction  which  the  worldly 
and  selfish  know  not.  "I  can't  tell,"  he  used  to  say  near 
the  close  of  his  life,  "I  can't  tell  how  much  pleasure  I 
have  taken  in  saving  for  that  great  object,"  pointing  to 


THE    FOUNDATION    OF    THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY.     57 

the  Institution  on  the  Hill.     "  I  hope  it  will  be  the  means 
of  saving  millions  of  souls." 

His  first  plan,  was  to  provide  for  the  education  of  young 
men  for  the  ministry,  not  in  Andover,  but  in  Harvard  Col- 
lege, where  were  those  men  in  particular  in  whom  he  had 
confidence,  namely,  President  Willard,  Dr.  Pearson,  and  Dr. 
Tappan.  After  much  serious  thought  and  much  consultation 
with  judicious  friends  and  earnest  prayer  for  Divine  guidance, 
he  made  a  will,  dated  May  10,  1803,  in  which  he  bequeathed 
two  thousand  dollars  to  the  Trustees  of  Phillips  Academy, 
the  income  of  which  should  be  laid  out  in  procuring  and 
circulating  the  following  books,  namely,  "  Bibles,  Testaments, 
The  Assembly's  Shorter  Catechism,  Hemingway's  Discourses 
for  Children,  Doddridge's  Address  on  Family  Prayer,  and 
his  Rise  and  Progress  of  Religion,  Laws'  Serious  Call,  Hen- 
ry's Discourse  of  Meekness,  Watts'  Divine  Songs  for  Chil- 
dren, with  other  like  pious  books."  And  he  expressly  de- 
clared it  to  be  his  principal  object  in  this  bequest,  to  preserve 
and  disseminate  "  the  essential  and  distinguishing  doctrines 
of  the  gospel  as  professed  by  our  pious  ancestors,  the  first 
settlers  of  New  England."  And  for  the  purpose  of  increas- 
ing the  number  of  learned  and  able  defenders  of  the  gospel 
of  Christ,  as  well  as  of  orthodox,  pious  and  zealous  ministers 
of  the  New  Testament,  he  bequeathed  the  residue  of  his 
estate  to  the  President  and  Fellows  of  Harvard  College,  to 
be  applied  to  the  support  of  theological  students  in  the 
College.  And  he  expressly  ordained,  "that  no  person  be 
admitted  as  student  on  his  foundation,  who  has  not  taken 
a  degree  at  some  College,  and  was  not  distinguished  by 
natural  abilities,  unblemished  morals  and  hopeful  piety." 
Besides  this  he  also  provided  in  his  will,  that  "  every  appli- 
cant, previously  to  his  being  admitted  on  this  foundation, 
shall  subscribe  a  written  declaration  of  his  faith  in  Divine 
revelation,  and  in  the  fundamental  doctrines  of  the  gospel, 
according  to  the  plain  and  fair  import  of  Scripture  terms 
and  phrases,  and  as  summarily  expressed  in  the  Westminster 


58         HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

Assembly's  Shorter  Catechism."  And  he  required  above  all 
that  students  on  his  foundation  should  make  the  Bible  the 
object  of  their  principal  attention  and  closest  study." l 

In  August  4,  1804,  Mr.  Abbot  executed  another  will,  in 
which  he  continued  his  legacy  of  two  thousand  dollars  for 
the  distribution  of  the  books  before  mentioned.  In  this  will 
he  also  made  provision  for  the  support  of  promising  scholars 
in  the  Academy,  and  also  for  the  support  of  one  or  two 
students  in  divinity,  and  he  bequeathed  the  residue  of  his 
estate,  as  before,  to  the  Professors  and  Fellows  of  Harvard 
College,  to  be  applied  to  the  support  of  theological  students, 
under  more  particular  regulations  than  those  mentioned  in  the 
former  will.  He  also  made  an  ultimate  provision  for  the 
support  of  a  Professor  of  the  Greek  language  and  Literature, 
appointing  that  he  should  be  "  distinguished  for  genius  and 
learning,  a  member  of  some  Protestant,  Congregational  or 
Presbyterian,  church,  a  man  of  judgment,  honesty  and  piety, 
and  of  Orthodox,  Calvinistic  principles  in  religion,  as  professed 
by  our  pious  ancestors,  the  first  settlers  of  New  England.  It 
was  also  his  will  that  when  the  state  of  the  fund  should 
admit,  an  addition  should  be  made  for  the  foundation  of  other 
Professorships. 

The  following  year,  in  consequence  of  the  altered  state 
of  things  in  Harvard  College,  he  judged  proper  to  revoke 
the  legacy  he  had  made  to  the  President  and  Fellows  of 
the  College.  It  was  inconsistent  with  his  convictions  of 
duty  to  support  Theological  Students  who  were  required  to 
j  be  Orthodox,  or  Calvinistic,  under  the  instruction  of  a 
\  Unitarian  Professor.  But  this  change  of  circumstances  threw 
his  mind  into  perplexity.  He  afterwards  told  me  that  for  a 
time  he  knew  not  what  to  do;  but  that  in  the  midst  of  his 
anxious  inquiry  as  to  what  use  he  should  make  of  his  proper- 
ty, it  came  suddenly  into  his  mind,  as  plainly  as  the  sheet 
let  down  from  heaven  to  Peter,  "establish  an  Institution 
to  train  up  ministers." 

1  See  extract  from  the  will,  dated  May  10,  1803,  in  the  Appendix. 


THE  FOUNDATION  OF  THE  THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY.  59 

On  the  8th  of  June,  1805,  he  made  a  codicil  to  his  will, 
in  which  he  wrote  as  follows,  concerning  the  bequest  he 
had  before  made  in  the  will  to  the  President  and  Fellows 
of  Harvard  College.  "Being  minded  for  certain  good  rea- 
sons to  alter  my  said  will,  so  far  as  relates  to  said  College, — 
I  do  hereby  revoke  the  said  bequest  to  the  President  and 
Fellows  of  said  College  and  every  part  thereof,  and  every 
other  part  of  said  will  relating  to  the  said  College.  And  I 
do  hereby  ordain  and  direct  that  the  whole  of  said  legacy 
and  bequest  be  given  to  the  Trustees  of  Phillips  Academy — 
to  be  appropriated  to  the  support  of  a  Theological  Professor 
in  said  Academy,  of  sound,  orthodox,  Calvinistic  principles 
of  divinity,  and  for  the  maintenance  of  students  in  divinity." 

It  was  a  little  more  than  a  year  after  this  change  in  Mr. 
Abbot's  will,  that  the  above-mentioned  voluntary  Association 
was  formed  in  Andover  for  the  purposes  stated  in  their 
records.  It  is  doubtless  true  that  not  only  Mr.  Farrar  who 
wrote  the  will  and  the  codicil,  but  the  other  gentlemen 
who  constituted  that  Association,  were  acquainted  with  Mr. 
Abbot's  charitable  intentions. 

It  must  be  kept  in  mind  that  in  all  the  proceedings  of  the 
Association,  neither  Mr.  Abbot,  nor  any  of  his  counsellors, 
had  any  thought  of  his  doing  more  than  to  provide  by  will, 
for  the  establishment  of  a  Theological  Seminary  after  his 
decease.  The  gentlemen  indeed  undertook  to  frame  a 
Constitution  for  such  a  Seminary,  but  it  was  a  Constitution 
to  be  inserted  in  Mr.  Abbot's  will  and  to  go  into  operation 
after  his  death.  The  will  of  Mr.  Abbot  containing  this 
Constitution  was  executed  Dec.  31,  1806.1 

It  ought  to  be  distinctly  said  to  the  honor  of  Dr.  Pearson, 
that  he  had  the  principal  agency  in  planning  and  preparing 
the  provisions  of  all  Mr.  Abbot's  wills  respecting  theologi- 
cal education,  and  particularly  the  Constitution  contained 
in  the  last  will  above  mentioned,  although  the  draft  which 
he  made  was  submitted  to  the  remarks  of  the  other  mem- 
1  See  extracts  from  this  will  in  the  Appendix. 


60         HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

bers  of  the  voluntary  Association  and  was  so  modified 
as  to  meet  their  approbation,  and  particularly  the  approba- 
tion of  Mr.  Abbot.  But  all  the  instruments  executed  by 
Mr.  Abbot  appear  in  the  fair  and  legible  handwriting  of 
Mr.  Farrar. 

Among  the  most  important  of  the  provisions  of  the  will 
last  mentioned,  were  the  following,  namely, 

"  Eighth,  To  prevent  if  possible  all  misunderstanding  of 
the  true  and  only  design  of  this  Institution  and  all  miscon- 
struction of  my  intention  and  meaning  in  these  regulations, 
and  all,  even  the  least  prostitution  or  perversion  of  this 
bequest,  it  is  hereby  expressly  declared  to  be  my  will,  that 
to  the  end  of  time,  no  man  ever  be  elected,  or  continue  a 
Professor  on  this  my  foundation,  or  receive  any  part  of  its 
income,  who  shall  not  have  first  approved  himself,  and  shall 
not  continue  to  approve  himself,  to  the  full  satisfaction  of 
the  said  Trustees,  a  man  of  solid  learning,  and  of  sound  and 
orthodox  principles  in  Divinity  according  to  my  sense  of  the 
terms,  i.  e.,  according  to  that  form  of  sound  words,  or  system 
of  evangelical  doctrines,  drawn  from  the  scriptures  by  the 
Westminster  Assembly  of  Divines,  and  denominated  'The 
Westminster  Assembly's  Shorter  Catechism/  which  has 
been  generally  received  and  taught  in  our  New  England 
churches,  and  by  Protestant  Christians  among  us  deemed 
sound  and  orthodox.  Every  person,  therefore,  elected  to  be  a 
Professor  of  Christian  Theology  on  this  foundation,  shall  on 
the  day  of  his  inauguration  into  office,  and  in  the  presence 
of  the  said  Trustees,  publicly  make,  and  with  his  hand  sub- 
scribe, a  solemn  declaration  of  his  faith  in  Divine  revelation, 
and  in  the  fundamental  and  distinguishing  doctrines  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  according  to  the  plain  and  fair  im- 
port of  Scripture  terms  and  phrases  and  as  summarily  ex- 
pressed in  the  Westminster  Assembly's  Shorter  Catechism." 

"Ninth,  Farther  to  secure  the  election  of  a  Professor 
of  sound  and  orthodox  principles  in  Divinity,  in  the  sense 


THE   FOUNDATION    OF    THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY.     61 

required  by  the  last  article,  my  will  is,  that  if,  at  any 
future  time,  (which  may  God  forbid)  the  Trustees  of  said 
Academy  should  become  so  regardless  of  these  my  regu- 
lations and  of  my  true  object  in  them,  as  to  choose  or  con- 
tinue in  office  a  Professor,  whose  principles  in  Divinity 
shall  not  be  sound  and  orthodox  in  the  sense  aforesaid,  or 
who  shall  not  make,  subscribe,  and  repeat  the  declaration 
herein  just  required,  in  either  such  case,  and  as  often  as 
such  deplorable  event  may  occur,  my  will  is,  that  such 
Professor  shall  receive  no  support  from  this  my  foundation, 
and  that  a  sum  equal  to  the  stipulated  salary  of  said  Pro- 
fessor, be  forfeited  to  the  use  of  the  South  Parish  in  An- 
dover,  and  added  to  the  fund  aforesaid  for  the  support 
of  the  gospel  ministry  in  such  Parish,  and  subject  to  the 
same  regulations  with  said  Fund." 

With  such  consummate  care  and  such  godly  jealousy 
had  that  good  man  learned  to  contemplate  the  founding 
of  a  theological  Institution,  and  placing  it  under  the  care 
of  the  Trustees  of  Phillips  Academy. 

After  executing  his  will,  in  Dec.,  1806,  Mr.  Abbot  con- 
centrated his  thoughts  and  affections  more  and  more  in- 
tensely on  his  favorite  object,  and  in  view  of  peculiar 
circumstances  and  events,  which  will  hereafter  be  partic- 
ularly related,  and  under  the  influence  of  the  united 
recommendation  of  his  counsellors,  he  came  gradually  to 
the  conclusion,  that  it  was  expedient  to  anticipate  the 
execution  of  his  purpose  as  stated  in  his  will,  and  to  pro- 
ceed with  all  convenient  despatch,  in  connection  with 
others,  actually  to  found  the  contemplated  Seminary,  and 
to  enjoy  the  happiness,  during  his  lifetime,  of  seeing  with 
his  own  eyes  the  beneficial  effects  of  his  charity.  Two 
other  benevolent  individuals,  Madame  Phoebe  Phillips  and 
her  eon,  Hon.  John  Phillips  of  Andover,  joined  with  him 
in  this  pious  design. 

But  while  this  important  measure  was  under  considera- 


62         HISTORY  OF  ANDOVER   THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

fcion,  it  was  deemed  advisable  and  necessary  to  make  ap- 
plication to  the  General  Court  for  an  act  authorizing  the 
Trustees  to  receive  and  hold  funds  for  the  establishment 
of  a  Theological  Institution  on  the  foundation  of  Phillips 
Academy. 

This  application  was  made  by  the  Trustees  in  June,  1807, 
and  was  grounded  on  the  expectation  of  liberal  additions 
to  the  Theological  fund. ,  The  act  of  the  General  Court 
was  obtained,  and  is  found  in  Part  II.,  page  217. 


CHAPTER    IV. 

THE   OTHER   FOUNDERS   OF   ANDOVER   THEOLOGICAL   SEMINARY. 

DURING  the  years  1807  and  1808  measures  were  taken 
favoring  a  change  in  Theological  education  in  New  Eng- 
land. The  weeks  and  months  of  that  period  were  occupied 
with  thoughts,  and  struggles,  and  transactions,  which  had 
a  most  important  bearing  upon  the  interests  of  our  holy  re- 
ligion. It  is  with  profound  emotions  that  I  call  to  remem- 
brance the  earnest  consultations,  the  intense  anxieties,  and 
efforts,  in  which  I  was  connected  with  so  many  excellent 
men,  who  now  sleep  in  their  graves.  I  can  relate  the 
leading  transactions  in  which  we  were  engaged,  in  the 
efforts  to  form  a  plan  whereby  our  young  men  might  be 
better  trained  for  the  work  of  the  ministry,  but  my  pen 
cannot  fully  describe  the  deep  seriousness; — the  alterna- 
tions of  hope  and  fear; — the  determination  of  mind; — and  the 
fervent  prayers  to  God; — with  which  we  prosecuted  the  busi- 
ness which  then  devolved  upon  us.  It  was  evidently  the  work 
of  God's  providence;  and  the  simple  narrative  of  what  was 
done,  will  strikingly  illustrate  the  manner  in  which  He 
frequently  accomplishes  His  designs. 

But  here,  as  in  other  cases,  God  in  His  providence  pre- 
pared beforehand  the  agents  to  be  employed,  in  carrying 
forward  His  plans  to  a  prosperous  execution.  In  His  infi- 
nite wisdom  He  raised  up  men  who  were  to  act,  some  the 
principal,  and  some  the  subordinate  parts  in  this  great 
concern. 


64         HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

It  will  greatly  contribute  to  my  object  not  only  to  name 
the  persons  who  were  to  take  a  prominent  part  in  the  found- 
ing of  a  Divinity  School,  but  also  to  give  a  brief  account 
of  those  traits  of  character,  and  those  circumstances,  which 
manifestly  fitted  them  to  perform  the  parts,  severally 
assigned  to  them. 

In  addition  to  Samuel  Abbot,  Esq.,  of  Andover,  who  has 
been  previously  mentioned,  is  the  name  of  Madam  Phoebe 
Phillips.  She  was  the  widow  of  Samuel  Phillips,  Esq., 
Lieutenant-Governor  of  Massachusetts,  who  was  one  of  the 
founders  of  Phillips  Academy.  Madam  Phillips  received 
a  religious  education  from  her  pious  parents,  Rev.  Francis 
and  Mrs.  Mehitabel  Foxcraft,  of  Cambridge,  Mass.  "  From 
infancy  she  was  accustomed  to  the  morning  and  evening 
sacrifice,  and  to  the  strictest  observance  of  the  Sabbath, 
being  required  to  read  the  Bible,  and  to  repeat  the  Assem- 
bly's Catechism.  Even  while  a  child  she  became  acquainted 
with  the  primary  doctrines  and  duties  of  our  holy  religion. 
She  early  experienced  those  impressions  of  Divine  truth 
which  became  the  basis  of  her  Christian  character.  The 
doctrines  of  the  Reformation,  as  delineated  by  the  Westmin- 
ster Assembly  of  divines,  constituted  her  religious  creed. 
She  possessed  a  very  rare  assemblage  of  virtues,  qualities, 
improved  by  reading,  matured  by  reflection,  sanctified  by 
grace,  and  brightened  by  affliction.  Through  life  she 
utterly  disclaimed  all  personal  merit,  and  during  her  last 
sickness  constantly  avowed  her  entire  dependence  on  the 
Redeemer." l 

Madam  Phillips  and  her  son  John  Phillips  obligated 
themselves  to  erect  two  buildings,  one  a  College  or  Hall, 
known  as  Phillips  Hall,  for  the  accommodation  of  students; 
and  the  other  to  contain  a  dining-hall  and  accommodations 
for  a  steward's  family. 

The  spirit  with  which  Madam  Phillips  entered  into  this 

1  Quoted  for  substance  from  a  sermon  delivered  at  her  funeral,  Nov.  3, 
1812,  by  the  Rev.  Eliphalet  Pearson,  LL.D. 


THE   OTHER   FOUNDERS   OF   ANDOYER   SEMINARY.          65 

work  will  be  seen  from  a  remark  in  her  letter  to  a  friend. 
Writing  of  the  new  building  she  says,  "  I  hope  a  prayer  will 
be  offered  for  every  hod  of  brick,  and  every  bucket  of  mor 
ter  used  in  its  erection." 

Honorable  John  Phillips,  who  joined  with  his  mother 
in  this  donation,  was  a  merchant  of  the  North  Parish.  He 
was  a  graduate  of  Harvard  College  in  1795,  and  had  studied 
for  the  legal  profession,  but  on  account  of  his  health  did  not 
pursue  it.  He  was  an  influential  citizen,  and  his  early 
death,  at  the  age  of  forty-four,  was  widely  mourned.1 

Another  class  of  persons  will  now  be  introduced,  who 
were  actors  in  this  scheme  of  benevolence  which  I  have 
undertaken  to  set  forth. 

The  first  of  these  was  William  Bartlett  of  Newburyport. 
During  his  youth  Mr.  Bartlett  was  a  shoe-maker,  but  having 
an  enterprising  disposition,  and  very  active  faculties,  he  early 
engaged  in  commercial  pursuits.  Through  the  smiles  of  Di- 
vine Providence  upon  his  bold  but  well-guarded  plans,  he 
acquired  a  large  estate.  He  always  retained  the  habits  of 
honesty,  industry,  and  economy  which  he  formed  in  early 
life.  But  he  aspired  after  wealth,  and  in  pursuit  of  it  he 
made  great  and  persevering  efforts.  Among  the  prosperous 
merchants  of  our  country,  it  was  acknowledged  that  no  one 
had  greater  sagacity  than  he  to  discern  in  season  the  chances 
of  business,  or  more  energy  arid  skill  to  carry  his  plans  into 
execution.  It  was  often  the  case,  that,  when  other  men,  en- 
gaged in  navigation,  were  just  beginning  to  find  out  that 
there  was  a  promising  opening  for  business  in  a  distant 
port,  Mr.  Bartlett  had  his  ships  under  way,  and  thus  seized 
the  prize,  while  others  were  waking  up  to  its  value.  He  was 
frequently  spoken  of  as  one  of  natures  great  men.  But  though 
he  had  such  zeal  in  pursuit  of  wealth,  he  never  lost  the 
early  impression  made  on  his  mind  of  the  reality  and  neces- 
sity of  religion.  He  was  a  punctual  and  serious  attendant 
on  public  worship,  and  under  the  influence  of  a  pious  father, 

1  Miss  Bailey's  historical  sketches  of  Andover,  quoted  1884. — EDITOB. 


66         HISTORY  OF  ANDOYER   THEOLOGICAL   SEMINARY. 

and  a  faithful  and  impressive  minister  of  the  gospel,  he  came 
to  be  fully  convinced  that  the  religious  principles  which  are 
contained  in  the  Shorter  Catechism — which  had  been  taught 
him  in  his  youth — constitute  the  true  system  of  Christianity. 
To  that  system  he  was  conscientiously  attached,  and  he  was 
earnestly  desirous  that  it  might  be  propagated  through  the 
world.  Mr.  Bartlett  was  not  a  professor  of  religion.  He 
had  a  large  heart,  though  he  was  less  attentive  than  some 
good  men  to  minor  acts  of  charity.  He  meditated  works 
of  benevolence  to  which  ordinary  estates  were  totally  inade- 
quate. It  had  a  manifest  tendency  to  fit  him  for  the  part 
which  Providence  assigned  to  him  in  the  establishment  of 
this  Institution,  that  in  his  view  it  would  not  be  expedient 
to  put  large  sums  of  money  into  the  hands  of  his  children. 
He  was  satisfied  of  this  before  the  project  of  a  Divinity 
School  was  suggested  to  him.  Thus  by  his  noble  and 
generous  heart,  by  the  possession  of  riches,  and  by  his 
domestic  circumstances,  he  was  prepared  for  the  work  which 
the  finger  of  God  was  in  due  time  to  point  out  to  him. 

Moses  Brown  of  Newburyport  was  another  of  the  agents 
whom  God  had  raised  up  and  prepared  to  act  a  part  in  the 
same  work.  He  was  an  intimate  friend  of  Mr.  Bartlett,  and, 
like  him,  acquired  his  estate  by  his  own  industrious  exer- 
tions, and  was  trained  up  in  the  same  religious  principles. 
Though  he  did  not  become  a  professor  of  religion  till  near 
the  close  of  his  life,  he  was,  in  the  opinion  of  those  who  best 
knew  him,  a  sincere  Christian.  In  a  remarkable  degree,  and 
without  any  appearance  of  seeking  the  praise  of  men,  he  was 
inclined  to  deeds  of  charity.  He  was  always  engaged  in 
doing  good.  He  had  one  beloved  daughter,  and  many 
relatives;  but  he  was  seriously  convinced  that  he  ought 
to  devote  a  part  of  his  estate,  which  was  probably  not  more 
than  half  as  large  as  Mr.  Bartlett's,  to  the  promotion  of 
some  benevolent  object  of  special  importance.  In  all  hie 
good  purposes  he  was  aided  by  the  hearty  concurrence  of 
his  amiable  and  excellent  wife. 


THE    OTHER  FOUNDERS   OF   ANDOVER   SEMINARY.          67 

John  Norris  of  Salem  was  the  last  of  the  three  men,  who 
wore  designated  by  God  to  contribute  largely  to  the  endow- 
ment of  a  Theological  Seminary.  Like  those  who  became  his 
associates,  he  acquired  a  handsome  fortune  by  patient  in- 
dustry and  strict  economy.  Except  so  far  as  he  was  influ- 
enced by  an  enlightened  conscience,  and  deep  religious 
principles,  he  was  inclined  to  seek  after  wealth  too  earnestly, 
and  to  hold  it  too  tenaciously.  He  was  childless,  but  he  had 
a  wife  of  fine  understanding  and  generous  feelings,  who  most 
cordially  approved  and  forwarded  all  his  charitable  purposes. 

Mr.  Norris  very  decidedly  believed  the  doctrines  of  grace 
as  commonly  understood,  and  as  expressed  in  the  Shorter 
Catechism ;  and  his  religious  feelings  were  deep  and  tender. 
He  would  weep,  while  speaking  of  the  evils  of  his  own  heart, 
and  his  want  of  clear  evidence  that  he  was  a  regenerated 
man.  Both  in  his  conversation  and  correspondence  in  regard 
to  the  projected  Seminary,  he  often  introduced  the  subject 
of  personal  religion,  and  as  appears  from  his  letters,  ex- 
pressed very  humble  and  frequently  very  anxious  views 
respecting  himself.  In  the  first  interview  I  had  with  him, 
in  the  summer  of  1807,  he  spoke  very  freely  arid  with 
strong  emotion  of  his  doubts  and  anxieties  respecting  his 
own  spiritual  state.  In  reference  to  this  subject  I  soon  after 
wrote  to  him,  and  in  due  time  received  the  following  answer 
which  I  insert  here  to  show  that  his  heart  was  intent  upon 
the  deep  things  of  experimental  religion,  and  that  he  was  in 
that,  as  well  as  in  other  respects,  peculiarly  fitted  to  exert  a 
salutary  influence  in  the  formation  of  a  Divinity  School. 

"  Salem,  Dec.  21,  1807. 
"REV.  AND  DEAR  SIR: — 

"  I  cannot  describe  the  feeling  impression  which  your 
kind  and  tender  letter  made  on  my  mind.  I  can  only  say,  I 
sincerely  thank  you  for  your  goodness. 

"  I  have  often  diligently  searched  that  I  might  find  cases 
similar  to  mine,  but,  alas !  I  find  none,  and  when  I  read  or 


68         HISTORY   OF   ANDOYER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

hear  of  any  pious  persons  that  have  in  the  least  degree 
experienced  such  feelings  as  I  have  been  exercised  with — 
it  gives  me  some  comfort. 

"Still  I  know  these  frames  and  feelings  are  not  the 
criterion  to  judge  by,  and  that  nothing  can  give  solid  hope 
and  comfort,  but  God's  word  and  Spirit.  The  texts  you 
mention  are  precious.  I  have  often  thought  of  the  words 
of  the  dejected  Psalmist,  and  have  hoped  that  I  could  say 
with  Job,  *  Though  He  slay  me,  yet  will  I  trust  in  Him.'  But 
oh !  this  native  depravity !  the  corruption  of  nature !  the 
indwelling  sin!  the  hard  heart!  I  sometimes  can  hardly 
help  concluding  that  it  is  impossible  that  there  can  be  the 
least  spark  of  grace  in  such  a  heart  as  mine.  Yet  I  am 
brought  back  to  confess,  that  at  some  particular  times  I 
cannot  but  think  I  have  had  some  gracious  affections.  The 
warfare  described  at  length  in  Romans  vii.,  and  a  reflex 
act  of  faith,  are  exercises  that  afford  a  hope  that  God  will 
not  take  his  Holy  Spirit  from  me,  and  leave  me  to  hardness 
of  heart  and  blindness  of  mind.  I  want  holy  love  !  0  what 
don't  I  want  of  spiritual  blessings ! 

"  Permit  me  to  stop  and  say  I  am  your  affectionate  friend, 

"J.    NORRIS." 

Such  being  the  prevailing  state  of  Mr.  Norris'  mind,  and 
such  the  principles  of  religion  with  which  he  was  early 
imbued,  it  was  a  matter  of  course  that  he  should  think  much 
of  the  doctrine  of  native  depravity.  Once,  in  an  unreserved 
conversation,  he  made  it  a  matter  of  complaint  against  a 
certain  minister  whom  he  held  in  high  estimation,  that  he 
did  not  preach  the  doctrine  of  Original  Sin  as  set  forth  in 
the  Catechism. 

The  Rev.  Samuel  Spring,  D.D.,  of  Newburyport,  was 
Divinely  appointed  to  be  a  chief  agent  in  contriving  and 
executing  a  plan  for  a  Theological  School.  "  He  was  born 
in  1746,  graduated  at  the  College  in  Princeton,  N.  J.,  in 
1771.  In  1775,  he  became  Chaplain  of  a  corps  which 


THE   OTHER   FOUNDERS   OF   ANDOVER   SEMINARY.          69 

marched  under  Col.  Arnold  through  the  wilderness  to  Can- 
ada. In  1777,  he  was  ordained  Pastor  of  the  North  Congre- 
gational Church  in  Newburyport,  where  he  continued  till 
his  death  in  1819."  He  had  himself  been  a  teacher  of 
several  students  in  divinity;  and  he  had  become  sensible 
of  the  importance  of  an  Institution  which  should  furnish 
better  means  than  were  then  enjoyed,  for  the  education 
of  the  rising  ministry.  He  possessed  great  practical  wisdom, 
integrity,  firmness,  and  perseverance;  and  he  exercised  a 
most  salutary  influence  over  the  minds  of  the  three  rich 
men,  above  named,  who  were  in  process  of  time  to  contribute 
so  largely  toward  his  favorite  object. 

He  looked  with  a  very  discriminating  eye  into  the  char- 
acters of  men,  and  knew  how  to  address  himself  to  them, 
so  as  to  convince  their  reason  and  conscience,  and  win  their 
affection.  He  had  a  judgment  that  could  weigh  the  advan- 
tages and  disadvantages  of  any  measure  proposed,  and  a 
singular  sagacity  to  foresee  and  guard  against  possible  dif- 
ficulties and  dangers.  In  him,  frankness  was  combined  with 
cautiousness,  and  strictness  of  moral  and  religious  principle 
with  real  candor  and  liberality  toward  those  who  differed 
from  him.  He  had  a  strength  of  purpose  which  never  yielded 
except  to  a  felt  conviction  of  duty.  When  he  was  persuaded 
that  any  scheme  on  which  he  had  set  his  heart  was  improper 
or  inexpedient,  or  any  favorite  object  unattainable,  he  had 
the  magnanimity  to  give  it  up,  not  reluctantly  or  partially, 
but  cheerfully  and  completely.  Those  who  transacted  im- 
portant business  with  him,  found  him  exceedingly  tenacious, 
and  yet  very  yielding ; — tenacious,  when  great  and  essential 
interests  required,  and  yielding,  when  yielding  was  called 
for  and  would  help  to  promote  those  interests.  In  short  he 
was  a  man  with  whom  any  one  who  wished  to  do  good, 
and  to  do  it  in  the  best  way,  would  wish  to  act.  Obviously 
he  was  formed  by  an  Over-Ruling  hand  for  great  and  noble 
designs,  and  particularly  for  the  work  assigned  him  in  the 
establishment  of  a  Theological  Institution. 


70         HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

I  would  not  commit  the  impropriety  of  introducing  my- 
self in  this  connection,  if  I  could  omit  it  without  a  greater 
impropriety.  The  well  known  fact  was,  that  it  devolved  on 
me  to  exert  a  humble,  but  not  unimportant  agency  in  this 
whole  concern.  It  was  my  privilege  to  enjoy,  far  beyond 
my  merits,  the  friendship  and  confidence  of  all  who  acted 
a  part  in  the  founding  of  the  Seminary,  whether  they  were 
characterized  by  a  greater  or  less  degree  of  strictness  in 
their  theological  faith.  In  the  first  place  I  was  educated  at 
Harvard  College,  and  while  there  and  afterwards  was  so  happy 
as  to  enjoy  the  affection  of  Dr.  Pearson.  I  also  had  the 
friendship  of  Dr.  Tappan,  Professor  of  Divinity  in  that 
College,  who  was  a  fervently  pious  man,  a  Calvinist  of  the 
milder  sort.  He  was  also  my  predecessor  in  the  ministry  in 
Newbury. 

On  the  other  side  I  pursued  my  theological  studies  with 
Dr.  Charles  Backus,  who  embraced  the  thorough  doctrinal 
and  practical  theology  of  Edwards  which  was  at  that  happy 
period  predominant  in  Connecticut  and  in  New  England 
generally.  Finally,  my  situation  and  other  circumstances 
brought  me  into  a  special  friendship  with  Dr.  Spring  and  Dr. 
Emmons,  and  many  others  who  sympathized  with  them. 
These  were  the  arrangements  of  Providence  which  gave  me  a 
place  with  others  in  laying  out  and  executing  the  plan  of 
an  Institution.  As*  early  as  April,  1806,  I  was  requested  to 
write  an  article  for  the  Panoplist  calling  attention  to  the 
importance  of  a  Theological  School;  but  on  this  subject 
farther  light  will  be  cast  by  the  following  history  of  the 
Seminary,  together  with  the  correspondence  published  in  the 
Appendix. 

There  were  many  others,  both  clergymen  and  laymen, 
who  were  consulted  by  the  principal  agents,  and  whose 
advice  or  approval  had  much  weight  relative  to  the  Semi- 
nary. I  need  not  name  prominent  individuals.  It  was  un- 
derstood that  Congregational  ministers  generally,  gave  their 
voice  in  favor  of  such  a  Seminary  as  was  finally  adopted; 


THE   OTHER  FOUNDERS   OF   ANDOVER   SEMINARY.          71 

and  that  Presbyterians  to  a  great  extent  did  the  same. 
Thus  we  were  encouraged  in  our  proceedings  by  the  appro- 
bation of  orthodox  ministers  and  Christians  of  different  de- 
nominations, and  by  the  expectation  of  their  friendship  and 
patronage.  Nor  were  we  disappointed. 

'It  will  be  seen  that  the  principal  actors  in  this  business 
were  men  of  very  different,  and  in  some  respects,  opposite 
qualities.  They  had  each  their  peculiar  natural  temper  and 
personal  objects.  As  was  naturally  to  be  expected  in  so 
complicated  and  exciting  an  enterprize,  they,  for  a  time, 
frequently  acted  in  opposition  to  each  other.  They  occa- 
sionally contended  and  strove  with  all  their  might  for  dif- 
ferent measures ;  and  in  their  various  discussions  and  counter 
efforts  they  repeatedly  crossed  each  other's  tracks,  and 
baffled  each  other  of  their  fondest  expectations.  If  their 
excited  minds  and  hearts  were  at  length  concentrated  upon 
one  and  the  same  plan,  a  plan  of  which  no  one  had  any 
conception  originally ;  and  if,  after  two  years  of  private  con- 
ferences, unceasing  correspondence,  and  difficult  negotiation, 
all  were  united  in  a  project  which  was  indeed  the  wisest  and 
best — if  this  was  the  case,  it  was,  like  every  great  and  good 
result,  owing  to  the  benevolent,  wise  and  all-controlling 
government  of  God. 


CHAPTER   V. 

HISTORICAL    SKETCH     OP    EVENTS    RELATIVE    TO    A    THEOLOGICAL 
SEMINARY. 

ABOUT  fifty  years  ago,  that  is,  near  the  beginning  of  the 
present  century,  Dr.  Spring  turned  his  thoughts  seriously 
toward  the  establishment  of  a  Divinity  School,  or  as  he 
called  it,  a  Theological  Academy.  When  I  was  returning 
with  him  from  the  funeral  of  Rev.  Mr.  Beattie  of  Salisbury, 
N.  H.,  he  first  introduced  the  subject  to  me.  He  said  that 
those  who  had  taught  theological  students  were  growing 
old,  and  that  something  must  be  done  to  supply  their  place. 
He  expressed  it  as  his  wish  that  some  plan  might  be  adopted 
for  a  more  thorough  education  of  pious  young  men  for  the 
ministry;  and  he  desired  me  to  take  the  subject  into  serious 
consideration.  He  at  the  same  time  requested  that  I  would 
regard  what  he  had  said  as  strictly  confidential. 

Not  far  from  that  time  he  related  to  me  an  interview 
which  he  had  with  one  of  his  Deacons,  who  was  aged  and 
sick,  poor  in  this  world,  but  rich  in  faith.  After  Dr.  Spring, 
with  a  few  appropriate  remarks  had  mentioned  the  subject  of 
a  Theological  Academy,  the  good  Deacon  said, 

"The  object  is  very  important,  but  I  can't  do  anything 
for  it;— but  I  hope  Billy  will." 

That  Billy  was  the  late  William  Bartlett,  then  a 
prosperous  young  merchant,  afterward  such  a  benefactor 
to  the  Seminary.1 

1  In  a  letter  to  the  son  as  far  back  as  1800,  Dr.  Spring  speaks  of  the  need  of 
a  school  for  training  young  men  for  the  ministry,  and  referring  to  Dr. 
Emmons'  school,  said,  "Franklin,  Mass.,  would  be  a  good  place  for  such  an 
Institution." 


HISTORICAL    SKETCH.  73 

Dr.  Spring  fixed  his  eye  upon  Mr.  Bartlett,  Mr.  Brown, 
and  upon  another  successful  merchant  belonging  to  his 
parish,  and  indulged  the  hope  that  their  growing  wealth 
might  one  day  be  of  use  to  the  cause  of  Christian  benevo- 
lence. With  this  object  before  him,  he  endeavored,  by 
faithful  instructions  in  public,  and  by  free  conversation  in 
private,  to  enlighten  and  educate  their  consciences.  His 
wish  was  to  make  the  impression  distinctly  on  their  minds, 
that  they  were  under  sacred  obligations  to  devote  a  consid- 
erable portion  of  their  substance  to  a  charitable  and  pious 
use.  His  whole  heart  was  intent  upon  the  subject;  and 
he  told  me  from  time  to  time  what  reasons  he  had  to  hope 
that  Divine  Providence  would  be  favorable  to  his  wishes. 

In  the  meantime  Dr.  Spring  made  me  personally  ac- 
quainted with  the  two  men  above  mentioned,  and  with 
their  families,  as  also  with  their  friends  who  were  after- 
wards benefactors  to  the  Institution.  But  his  specific 
design  as  to  a  Theological  Academy  was,  for  the  time,  con-  t 
fined  within  his  own  breast,  except  that  it  was  in  some 
general  way  suggested  to  those  two  merchants,  and  was, 
as  I  have  mentioned,  disclosed  to  me.  It  was  an  important 
maxim  with  him,  that  certain  matters  can  be  managed  best 
by  a  few  hands. 

At  length  the  time  came  when  Messrs.  Brown  and  Bartlett,  w 
after  a  season  of  unusual  prosperity  in  mercantile  business, 
expressed  to  their  minister  a  readiness  to  devote  a  portion 
of  their  property  to  a  charitable  use.     According  to  my  best 
recollection  it  was  during  the  latter  part  of  the  year  1806.  • 
Monday  evening  was  fixed  upon  for  the  meeting  of  the  gen- 
tlemen, at  the  house  of  Dr.  Spring.     I  was  by  letter  invited 
to  meet  with  them,  my  residence  being  seven  miles  distant. 

That  was  an  evening  long  to  be  remembered.  Had  we 
then  known  the  results  which  were  to  follow  from  that 
meeting,  even  for  the  next  forty  years,  the  premature  knowl- 
edge would  have  overwhelmed  our  minds,  and  unfitted 
us  for  calm  and  deliberate  action. 


74         HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

After  a  short  time  spent  at  the  beginning  of  the  meet- 
ing in  general  conversation,  Dr.  Spring,  who  was  a  man 
of  great  efficiency  and  despatch  in  business,  and  who  was 
in  the  habit  of  coming  at  once  to  the  main  point  said  to 
his  two  parishioners: 

"  Gentlemen  are  you  ready  to  proceed  ?  " 

The  answer  came  promptly.     "Yes." 

"  What  object  of  charity  will  be  most  agreeable  to  you  ?  " 

"  I  can  think  of  nothing  more  important  than  a  Theo- 
logical Academy,"  Mr.  Brown  answered. 

"I  coincide  with  that,"  added  Mr.  Bartlett. 

After  a  little  conversation  on  the  subject,  Mr.  Bartlett, 
in  his  characteristic  manner,  asked, 

"How  much  will  it  cost?" 

Dr.  Spring  then  went  into  some  calculation  as  to  the 
expense  of  a  building,  and  what  would  be  necessary  for 
the  support  of  instructors  and  students.  He  then  added, 

"  1  suppose  forty  or  fifty  thousand  dollars  would  be  suf- 
ficient to  begin  with." 

Mr.  Bartlett  pleasantly  remarked,  "You  trump  up  high." 

Mr.  Brown  then  turning  to  Mr.  Bartlett  asked, 

"  How  much  will  you  give  ?  " 

Mr.  Bartlett  answered, 

"You  are  the  oldest,  and  you  must  say  first." 

A  conversation  ensued  between  them  as  to  the  state  of 
their  property.  Mr.  Brown  saying  that  he  had  too  much 
real  estate  and  could  not  easily  raise  money.  Mr.  Bartlett 
insisted  that  he  (Mr.  Brown),  was  able  to  command  money 
and  telling  him  how.  After  a  little  time,  Mr.  Brown  said, 

"I  will  give  ten  thousand  dollars  to  begin  with,  and 
more  afterwards." 

"Why  didn't  you  say  twenty  thousand?"  Mr.  Bartlett 
rejoined.  "Then  I  would." 

Soon  after  this  Mr.  Brown  rose  up,  and  turning  to 
Dr.  Spring  and  me,  said, 

"You  know,  gentlemen,  I  don't  like  to  be  from  home 


HISTORICAL   SKETCH.  75 

in  the  evening,  and  you  must  excuse  me.     I  give  my  money 
freely,  but  I  must  leave  the  business  with  you." 

Mr.  Bartlett  remained  longer  and  entered  into  a  partic- 
ular conversation  with  us  on  the  importance  of  the  object 
before  us; — on  the  necessity  of  a  good  Constitution  and 
Creed  for  the  proposed  Theological  Academy; — and  other 
kindred  topics.  As  he  was  leaving  us  he  said, 

"Go  on  gentlemen,  and  do  the  business,  and  money 
shan't  be  wanting. 

After  he  went  out  Dr.  Spring  said,  "That  pledge  of 
Mr.  Bartlett  is  as  good  as  a  check  on  the  Bank  for  a  hun- 
dred thousand  dollars." 

At  that  first  meeting,  the  gentlemen  made  known  to  me 
their  desire  that  1  should  be  their  Professor  of  Theology. 
There  was  also  some  conversation,  not  only  in  regard  to 
the  general  plan  of  the  proposed  Theological  School,  but 
as  to  its  location.  It  was  suggested  by  Dr.  Spring  and 
assented  to  by  Messrs.  Norris  and  Brown  that  as  I  was  ' 
established  in  West  New  bury  it  should  be  placed  within 
the  limits  of  my  pastoral  charge ;  and  that  I  should  for  the 
present  retain  the  pastoral  office  and  have  a  colleague  to 
assist  me  in  the  ministry  and  in  the  instruction  of  the 
Theological  students. 

The  next  day  Dr.  Spring  went  to  Salem  to  visit  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Norris.  In  the  evening  he  laid  before  them  the 
importance  of  a  Theological  School,  told  them  what  Messrs. 
Brown  and  Bartlett  had  done,  and  invited  Mr.  Norris  to 
join  with  them  in  contributing  to  the  object  in  view. 

But  Mr.  Norris,  though  he  was  a  benevolent  and  pious 
man,  and  intended  to  do  good  with  his  riches,  did  not  feel 
ready  at  once  to  enlist  in  an  enterprise  which  would  require 
such  large  drafts  upon  his  property.  At  the  close  of  the 
evening  he  excused  himself  for  refusing  the  request  made  to 
him,  saying, 

"The  cause  of  Missions  has  been  my  object." 

After  Dr.  Spring  had  retired  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Norris  con- 


76         HISTORY  OF  ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL   SEMINARY. 

versed  freely  on  the  subject  which  had  been  suggested,  and 
with  good  effect,  for  the  next  morning,  on  meeting  his  guest 
in  the  parlor,  Mr.  Norris  said, 

"  Why,  my  wife  says  that  your  object  and  the  cause  of 
Missions  is  the  same  thing." 

She  had  rightly  understood  from  Dr.  Spring's  remarks, 
that  the  Institution  which  he  had  in  view  was  intended  to 
raise  up  missionaries  as  well  as  pastors. 

With  this  better  view  of  the  matter,  and  under  this  judi- 
cious influence,  Mr.  Norris  agreed  to  give  the  same  sum  with 
Messrs.  Brown  and  Bartlett. 

Thus  in  thirty-six  hours,  through  the  goodness  of  God, 
the  sum  of  thirty  thousand  dollars  was  secured;  and  the 
prospect  of  as  much  more  as  should  be  necessary. 

Mr.  Norris,  whose  contributions  to  benevolent  objects 
were  made  with  peculiar  seriousness,  and  conscientiousness, 
proceeded,  shortly  after  this  interview,  to  set  apart  the  sum  he 
had  subscribed  for  the  use  of  the  Theological  School.  He 
took  TEN  THOUSAND  SILVER  DOLLARS  from  the  Bank,  put  it  up  in 
firkins,  and  devoutly  consecrated  it  to  God.  This  he  regarded 
as  a  sacred  deposit,  and  refused  to  use  it,  or  any  part  of  it, 
till  the  time  came  when  it  was  to  be  applied  to  the  object  to 
which  it  had  been  devoted.  When  that  time  came,  it  being 
from  one  to  two  years  after  the  money  was  subscribed,  he 
made  the  proposal  to  Messrs.  Brown  and  Bartlett  that  inter- 
est should  be  paid  on  the  whole  sum  they  had  given,  THIRTY 
THOUSAND  DOLLARS,  from  the  date  of  their  subscription  to  the 
time  of  paying  it  over  to  the  Trustees  of  the  Institution. 

For  some  time  previous  to  the  above-mentioned  meeting 
at  Newburyport,  I  had  been  associated  with  Rev.  Dr.  Morse  in 
publishing  the  Panoplist  The  day  after  that  meeting  I  went 
to  Charlestown  to  attend  to  the  business  of  our  publication. 
When  this  had  been  accomplished  I  related  to  Dr.  Morse 
some  of  the  events  connected  with  the  Newburyport  meeting, 
the  generosity  of  the  Donors,  and  the  happy  results  which 
might  be  expected  to  follow. 


HISTORICAL    SKETCH.  71 

This  information,  under  the  circumstances,  almost  over- 
whelmed him  with  a  deep  sense  of  the  wonderful  providence 
of  God.  Here  was  opened  to  him  another,  and  an  entirely 
new  page  in  the  book  of  God's  dealings  with  the  hearts  of 
men. 

Dr.  Morse  then  informed  me  of  the  following  facts.  Dur- 
ing the  very  years  in  which  Dr.  Spring  had  been  contemplat- 
ing so  earnestly,  and  with  such  concealment  from  public 
view,  the  founding  of  a  Theological  Academy,  Mr.  Samuel 
Abbot  with  the  help  of  his  confidential  friends  and  coun- 
sellors, had  been  turning  his  thoughts  to  the  same  object, 
and  had  been  feeling  after  the  best  mode  of  accomplishing  it; 
— that  after  abandoning  several  designs,  which  he  had  for  a 
time  entertained,  he  had  recently  made  a  will,  bequeathing 
the  greater  part  of  his  estate  to  the  Trustees  of  Phillips 
Academy  for  the  support  of  a  Professor  of  Christian  Theology 
and  Theological  students. 

This  will,  which  contained  the  Constitution  of  the  Semi- 
nary, was  written  not  far  from  the  time  of  that  memorable 
meeting  at  Dr.  Spring's.  Thus,  under  the  over-ruling  direction 
of  God  whose  operations  are  allwise  and  harmonious,  two 
sets  of  men,  living  in  the  some  county,  but  totally  ignorant 
of  each  other's  intentions,  had  been  seriously  engaged  in 
contriving  and  taking  measures  to  establish  a  Theological 
Institution. 

Dr.  Morse  at  length  suggested  the  inquiry  whether  the, 
gentlemen  at  Newburyport  and  at  Andover  might  not  ad  van- 1 
tageously  unite  in  the  same  Theological  establishment.     The,' 
reasons,  he  said,  for  preferring  one  large  institution  before' 
two  small  ones,  were  very  obvious.     He  stated  them  with 
great  force.     A  united  Institution,  he  said,  would  contain  all 
the  advantages  which  would  otherwise  be  divided  between 
them,   and  a  union  would  prevent  the   evils  which  would  ! 
in  all  probability  be  occasioned  by  the  existence  of  two  rival 
schools  in  the  same  neighborhood.     With  this  impression  he 
determined  without  delay,  to  communicate  to  the  gentlemen 


78         HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY 

at  Andover  what  had  been  done  at  Newburyport,  and  if  they 
should  concur  in  opinion  with  him,  to  visit  Newburyport,  and 
invite  the  gentlemen  there  to  join  with  Mr.  Abbot  in  estab- 
lishing one  Institution.  He  accordingly  went,  March  21st,  to 
Andover,  and  finding  that  Mr.  Abbot,  Dr.  Pearson  and  others 
entertained  the  same  views  with  himself,  he  proceeded  to 
West  Newbury,  where  he  spent  the  Sabbath  with  me,  and 
thence  to  Newburyport,  March  23d,  for  the  purpose  of  pro- 
posing a  coalition.  In  compliance  with  his  request,  I  accom- 
panied him  to  Newburyport.  We  were  aware  that  Messrs. 
Brown  and  Bartlett  reposed  great  confidence  in  Dr.  Spring 
and  we  judged  it  expedient  that  the  plan  of  union  should  be 
opened  first  to  him. 

Dr.  Spring  was  deeply  impressed  with  the  importance  of 
the  information  communicated  to  him  respecting  the  in- 
tentions of  Mr.  Abbot,  but  he  was  totally  averse  to  coal- 
ition, and  opposed  it  with  his  characteristic  decision.  His 
objections,  which  in  his  view  were  conclusive  against  a 
union,  he  stated  to  Dr.  Morse,  and  afterward  to  Messrs. 
Brown,  Bartlett  and  Norris,  the  Associate  Founders.  The 
considerations  which  had  the  most  weight  in  his  mind  re- 
sulted directly  from  his  religious  principles,  and  his  habitual 
caution.  His  theological  opinions  agreed  nearly  with  those 
of  Edwards,  and  more  nearly  with  those  of  Hopkins  and 
Emmons,  with  both  of  whom  he  had  an  intimate  personal 
friendship.  He  had  earnestly  contended  for  the  scheme 
of  those  three  divines,  which  he  called  consistent  Calvinism, 
in  opposition  to  moderate  Calvinism,  or  Arminianism,  and 
he  had  given  his  opinions,  and  the  arguments  by  which 
he  supported  them,  to  the  public.  Although  the  system 
of  Hopkins,  and  particularly  of  Emmons,  prevailed  only  to 
a  very  limited  extent,  yet  the  character  of  those  ministers, 
who,  in  the  main,  embraced  it,  was  so  excellent,  and  their 
success  in  the  ministry  so  remarkable,  that  Dr.  Spring  in- 
dulged the  hope  of  its  increased  prevalence.  With  his 
conscientious  convictions,  it  was  natural  that  he  should 


HISTORICAL    SKETCH.  79 

look  upon  the  Theological  Academy  which  he  had  the  pros- 
pect of  establishing,  as  a  means  of  promoting  his  peculiar 
opinions  and  increasing  the  number  and  influence  of  his 
party.  In  such  circumstances  it  cannot  be  thought  strange 
that  although  he  really  had  a  noble,  liberal  heart,  he  was 
averse  to  uniting  with  those  who  as  he  apprehended  differed 
materially  from  him,  and  whose  influence  in  a  Divinity 
School  would  be  likely  to  interfere  with  his  great  object. 

Accordingly  Dr.  Morse  at  his  first  visit  to  Newburyport 
received  not  the  least  encouragement  as  to  the  practicability 
of  a  coalition.  But  he  and  those  with  whom  he  acted  were 
men  of  too  much  resolution  and  perseverance,  to  give  up  an 
object  which  they  deemed  so  important  without  very  stren- 
uous efforts  to  accomplish  it. 

Early  in  March  Dr.  Spring  made  me  a  visit  for  the  pur- 
pose of  consulting  with  me  and  some  of  my  people  respect- 
ing a  suitable  location  for  our  Academic  buildings.  He  was 
fully  aware  of  the  embarrassments  in  my  mind,  for  I  had 
not  concealed  from  him  my  serious  apprehension  of  the  evils 
which  would  be  the  consequence  of  two  separate  schools,  or 
the  various  benefits  which  might  be  secured  by  a  union, 
founded  on  right  principles.  He  knew  what  efforts  were 
made  by  Dr.  Pearson  and  Dr.  Morse  and  by  other  dis- 
tinguished gentlemen  to  influence  my  mind.  In  these  cir- 
cumstances, he  treated  me,  both  in  conversation  and  by 
letter,  not  only  with  forbearance,  but  with  tender  sympathy 
and  the  most  winning  parental  affection.  He  endeavored 
with  great  candor  to  remove  my  hesitation  and  to  persuade 
me  to  act  decidedly  in  favor  of  our  original  design.  For 
this  purpose  he  also  wrote  me.1  His  arguments  almost  per- 
suaded me  and  his  kindness  subdued  me.  My  personal  af- 
fection for  him,  which  had  always  been  strong,  rose  to  new 
ardor.  The  thought  of  being  separated  from  him  was  in- 
supportable. The  conflict  in  my  mind  was  terrible.  I  was 

1  See  Appendix,  Letter  from  Dr.  Spring,  April  1,  1807,  and  from  Dr. 
Pearson  to  Dr.  Morse,  April  2,  1807. 


80         HISTORY   OF  ANDOYER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

like  "the  waves,  driven  of  the  sea  and  tossed."  I  called  upon 
God  for  wisdom  to  decide  according  to  His  will.  At  length 
my  hesitation  gave  way  and  I  addressed  a  letter  to  Dr. 
Spring  and  the  Associate  Founders,  March  30th,  expressing 
decidedly,  but  tremblingly,  my  acceptance  of  the  office  of 
Professor  in  their  Institution.  But  the  very  day  I  sent 
my  letter,  Dr.  Parish  visited  me,  and  earnestly  protested 
against  the  determination  I  had  formed,  and  before  he  left, 
Dr.  Pearson  called  on  me,  arid  joined  his  endeavors  with 
those  of  Dr.  Parish  to  shake  my  resolution.  In  this  he  so 
far  succeeded,  that,  with  a  divided  mind,  1  consented  to  send 
another  letter  to  Dr.  Spring,  requesting  him  to  delay  making 
my  acceptance  known  to  the  Donors,  till  he  again  heard 
from  me. 

It  may  seem  strange,  that  after  so  discouraging  and  de- 
cided a  repulse  in  the  Conference,  they  had  any  reason  to 
hope  that  farther  efforts  towards  union  would  oe  of  any 
avail;  but  it  soon  came  to  be  understood  that  Messrs.  Brown 
and  Bartlett  in  conversation  with  Dr.  Pearson  entertained 
the  idea  of  a  united  institution,  with  some  degree  of  favor. 
Still  their  esteem  for  Dr.  Spring  was  so  sincere,  and  they 
were  so  desirous  of  complying  with  his  wishes,  that  the 
thought  of  displeasing  him  gave  them  great  pain.  It  was 
concluded,  therefore,  by  all  of  us  who  desired  union,  that 
all  considerations  in  its  favor,  must  be  addressed  to  them 
by  him,  though  at  the  same  time  we  felt  no  doubt  that  the 
inclination  of  the  Associate  Founders  to  favor  a  coalition,  if 
it  should  be  decided  and  manifest,  would  have  weight  with 
Dr.  Spring.  Dr.  Pearson,  therefore,  with  the  aid  of  Dr. 
Morse  made  it  his  object  for  weeks  and  months,  to  converse 
frequently  with  Dr.  Spring  and  the  Associate  Donors,  for 
the  purpose  of  laying  before  them  the  various  reasons  why 
a  union  was  to  be  desired,  and  to  obviate  the  objections 
which  Dr.  Spring  arrayed  against  it.  As  to  myself,  Dr. 
Spring  knew,  and  all  who  were  concerned  on  both  sides 
knew,  that  my  heart  tended  strongly  toward  a  union,  if  it 


HISTORICAL    SKETCH.  81 

could  be  brought  about,  as  I  thought  it  might  be,  on  just  and 
reasonable  terms.  But  on  account  of  my  youth,  and  my  pe- 
culiar connection  with  Dr.  Spring  and  the  other  gentlemen 
in  Newburyport,  I  felt  that  both  duty  and  propriety  forbade 
me  to  take  any  decided  part  in  the  present  discussions.  I 
therefore  contented  myself  with  manifesting  my  cordial  re- 
gard to  all  who  were  enlisted  in  the  enterprise,  and  in  ex- 
pressing the  pleasure  I  should  have  if  there  could  be  an 
equitable  and  satisfactory  union  of  the  parties.  Under  the 
circumstances  I  fully  resolved  to  keep  within  these  limits, 
unless  imperious  duty  should  require  a  change  in  my  course.1 
i  See  in  Appendix,  letters  from  April  4th  to  June  15th,  1807. 


CHAPTER  VI. 

SKETCH  OF  EVENTS  RELATIVE  TO  A  THEOLOGICAL  SCHOOL (continued). 

ON  the  28th  of  April,  1807T  there  was  a  Conference  at 
Newburyport  at  which  Dr.  Spring  and  Dr.  Pearson  were 
prominent  in  bringing  forth  arguments  in  support  of  their 
own  opinions;  but  this  meeting  failed  of  producing  any 
definite  results  in  favor  of  union.  Still  it  secured  some 
important  benefits,  one  of  which  was  that  Dr.  Spring  be- 
came more  fully  satisfied  with  Dr.  Pearson  and  had  a  more 
undoubting  confidence  in  his  orthodoxy  and  piefy.  I  learned 
from  Dr.  Spring,  that  Dr.  Pearson  disclosed  to  him  his  the- 
ological opinions  and  his  religious  experience,  and  thus 
gave  the  most  gratifying  evidence  of  his  soundness  in  the 
faith,  and  his  sanctified  affections.  It  was  a  very  signifi- 
cant fact  for  Dr.  Spring  to  say  to  me,  as  he  did,  that  he 
had  as  "much  confidence  in  Dr.  Pearson  as  he  had  in  any 
man  on  earth."  This  was  a  happy  change  in  his  feelings 
and  it  cast  an  air  of  freedom  and  comfort  over  their  sub- 
sequent intercourse. 

Another  benefit  was  that  the  visitatorial  scheme  which 
had  been  proposed  and  rejected,  was  brought  up  and  discussed 
with  more  favor. 

The  effect  of  the  Conference  was  equally  favorable  in 
the  mind  of  Dr.  Pearson.  He  left  Newburyport  with  very 
happy  feelings,  and  said  that  "  he  never  knew  more  excel- 
lent men  than  Dr.  Spring  and  the  three  Donors,  and  that 
he  should  endeavor  to  impress  the  same  feelings  on  the 
minds  of  all  his  friends  in  Andover." 


HISTORICAL    SKETCH.  83 

One  other  thing  was  an  indirect  benefit.  I  had  written 
to  Dr.  Spring,  and  though  the  letter  did  not  in  all  respects 
harmonize  with  his  wishes,  he  thought  it  best  to  read  it 
during  the  Conference.  It  afterwards  appeared  that  the 
particular  and  unreserved  statement  which  I  made  of  my 
views,  was  received  on  both  sides,  with  far  more  favor  than 
I  could  have  expected.  In  consequence  of  this,  I  was 
encouraged  on  all  occasions  to  speak  my  mind  with  more 
freedom  than  before,  both  in  respect  to  the  union  and  in 
respect  to  the  rights  and  privileges  to  which  the  As- 
sociate Donors  would  be  entitled  in  case  a  union  should 
be  formed. 

The  fact  that  the  Donors  at  this  Conference  decided 
against  any  connection  with  Phillips  Academy,  and  in 
favor  of  a  new  Institution  was  less  discouraging  to  Dr. 
Pearson  than  might  have  been  supposed;  for,  instead  of 
absolutely  abandoning  the  idea  of  union,  they  expressed 
a  willingness,  even  a  desire,  that  the  gentlemen  at  Andover 
would  join  them  at  West  Newbury,  and  determined  to  sus- 
pend for  the  present  all  measures  which  would  prevent  a 
union  in  a  new  establishment  in  that  place.  Dr.  Pearson 
did  not,  at  the  time,  appear  altogether  unfavorable  to  such 
a  plan  of  union. 

Before  the  close  of  the  meeting  the  gentlemen  present 
agreed  to  have  another  Conference  at  Newburyport  after 
Dr.  Morse  should  return  from  his  journey.  Thus  the  door 
was  kept  open  for  farther  negotiations;  and  a  fair  op- 
portunity was  given  to  consider  very  maturely  the  differ- 
ent plans  of  union  which  had  been  proposed,  and  to  weigh 
all  the  arguments  which  might  be  urged,  for  and  against 
them. 

The  new  plan  which  Dr.  Spring  had  proposed  was,  that 
the  Andover  Founders  and  the  Associate  Donors  should 
unite  in  establishing  a  Theological  Seminary  at  West  New- 
bury under  a  Board  of  Trustees  and  Directors  appointed 
by  themselves;  and  to  be  independent  of  any  existing  In- 


84         HISTORY  OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

stitution.  This  new  plan  was  the  subject  of  much  reflection 
and  of  frequent  conversation  among  the  gentlemen  on  both 
sides. 

Dr.  Spring  suggested  considerations  of  serious  import- 
ance in  favor  of  its  adoption.  "  Why  ?  "  he  asked,  "  should 
a  Theological  Institution  be  embarrassed  by  a  connection 
with  Phillips  Academy?  Why  should  not  the  generous 
Donors  unite  in  establishing  a  Divinity  School  independent 
of  any  other  school,  under  the  direction  of  Trustees  ap- 
pointed expressly  for  themselves?  Why,  especially,  should 
it  be  pressed  into  the  hands  of  Trustees,  a  part  of  whom 
were  known  to  entertain  opinions  contrary  to  those  which 
all  the  Founders  intended  should  be  inculcated  in  their 
Seminary  ?  " 

This  plan,  however,  though  not  at  once  rejected,  did  not 
secure  from  the  Andover  party  the  regard  to  which  it 
seemed  to  be  entitled.  The  fact  was,  that  Mr.  Abbot  and 
all  his  particular  friends  and  counsellors,  as  Drs.  Pearson 
and  Morse,  Messrs.  French,  Farrar  and  Newman,  were  Trus- 
tees of  the  Academy,  and  were  deeply  interested  in  its 
welfare.  Beside  this  the  will  of  Mr.  Abbot  was  already 
made,  bequeathing  the  greater  part  of  his  estate  to  the 
Trustees  of  Phillips  Academy,  for  the  very  purpose  of  found- 
ing a  Theological  School  under  their  direction.  The  ties 
which  thus  bound  him  and  his  friends  to  the  Academy  were 
too  strong  to  be  easily  broken.  It  was,  moreover,  a  cir- 
cumstance which  had  great  weight  with  them  that  a  Theo- 
logical School  had  been  provided  for  in  Phillips  Academy, 
and  had  been  for  ten  years  in  successful  operation,  which 
had  sent  forth  a  number  of  promising  young  ministers,  and 
Mr.  Abbot's  legacy  to  the  Trustees  had  been  made  expressly 
in  pursuance  of  the  same  object.1 

Perceiving  as  I  did,  how  critical  was  the  state  of  our 
affairs,  and  having  taken  much  pains,  with  some  success, 

i  Theological  students  in  connection  with  Phillips  Academy  had  been 
instructed  by  the  Kev.  Jonathan  French,  the  minister  of  the  South  Parish. 


HISTORICAL    SKETCH.  85 

to  persuade  Dr.  Spring  and  the  Donors  to  meet  the  overtures 
from  Andover  with  a  candid  and  yielding  spirit,  I  could 
not  forget  the  importance  of  the  same  spirit  on  the  other 
side.  Being  particularly  impressed  with  this  subject  and 
knowing  that  great  consequences  would  probably  depend 
upon  the  manner  of  conducting  the  business  at  the  next 
Conference,  I  wrote  to  Dr.  Morse  a  fortnight  before  the  time 
of  the  meeting,1  and  labored  perhaps  more  earnestly  than 
was  necessary  to  show  that  a  spirit  of  candor  and  concilia- 
tion, was  as  indispensable  among  the  Andover  gentlemen 
as  on  the  other  side. 

I  said,  "  I  have  much  hope  that  the  best  plan  will  be 
adopted.  If  it  falls  to  your  part  to  make  the  most  sacrifice 
for  Christ's  precious  cause,  blessed  are  you.  If  it  should 
come  to  pass  that  you  and  Dr.  Pearson  are  called  upon 
to  do  even  more  than  you  at  first  contemplated  in  the  way 
of  condescension,  and  in  making  sacrifices,  I  trust  you  will 
embrace  the  precious  opportunity  of  honoring  the  Redeemer 
and  promoting  His  cause." 

The  next  Conference  was  looked  forward  to  with  mingled 
emotions,  of  hope  and  fear,  anxiety  and  pleasing  expectation. 
It  was  understood  that  the  whole  subject  would  be  discussed 
with  candor  on  both  sides,  and  the  question  of  union  finally 
decided.  The  meeting  was  held  in  Newburyport,  on  the 
15th  of  June,  1807.  The  gentlemen  present  were  Dr.  Spring 
and  the  Associate  Founders,  Dr.  Emmons,  Dr.  Pearson,  Dr. 
Morse,  Esq.  Farrar,  and  Hon.  John  Phillips  of  Andover. 

In  all  the  proceedings  of  the  meeting  there  was  a  pleas- 
ing desire  to  meet  the  wishes  of  the  opposite  party  as  far 
as  it  could  be  done  safely  and  conscientiously;  but  not- 
withstanding this,  it  soon  became  evident  that  all  Dr. 
Spring's  predilections  were  in  favor  of  a  separate  Institution, 
and  he  urged  his  opinion  with  great  force.  In  this  he  was 
warmly  sustained  by  Dr.  Emmons. 

Dr.  Pearson  on  the  contrary  urged  that  such  were  the 
1  See  letter  in  Appendix,  under  date  June  1,  1807. 


86          HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

strifes  and  jealousies  of  political  parties  in  Massachusetts, 
that  the  Legislature  could  not  be  expected  to  patronize 
an  Orthodox  school  of  Divinity  by  an  act  of  Incorporation; 
and  therefore  it  was  highly  desirable  that  the  new  Seminary 
should  be  placed  under  the  care  of  Phillips  Academy.  Events 
which  occurred  at  that  period  of  our  Commonwealth  proved 
that  there  was  too  much  ground  for  such  an  apprehension. 

In  reply  Dr.  Spring  urged  again  his  objections  grounded 
on  the  Act  of  Incorporation  of  Phillips  Academy.  He  said 
it  was  his  opinion,  in  which  Mr.  Norris  agreed,  that  the 
introduction  of  a  new  Board  of  Visitors  (the  Visitatorial 
system  being  the  only  one  on  which  they  could  unite)  would 
be  incompatible  with  the  Act  of  Incorporation,  and  that 
no  act  of  such  a  Board  would  be  recognized  as  valid  by  our 
Courts  of  Justice.  The  free  and  earnest  discussions  led 
the  Associate  Founders  to  look  with  a  lively  interest,  and 
with  some  favor,  upon  the  lucid  statement  which  had  been 
made  of  the  nature  and  advantages  of  the  Visitatorial  system, 
while  it  was  still  in  their  minds,  and  especially  in  the  mind 
of  Dr.  Spring,  conclusive  objection  against  it,  that  it  left 
the  power  of  electing  the  Professors  in  the  hands  of  the 
Trustees  of  Phillips  Academy.  The  offer  of  the  Andover 
gentlemen  to  make  the  Associate  Creed  common  to  all  the 
Professors,  was  fair  and  honorable,  and  left  no  room  for 
objection  in  regard  to  theological  opinion,  in  the  minds 
of  any  except  Dr.  Emmons,  who  thought  it  defective. 

After  long  and  anxious  debates,  the  influence  of  Dr. 
Spring,  and  Dr.  Emmons,  was  so  powerful,  that  all  the 
considerations  of  the  Andover  gentlemen  in  favor  of  a  union 
could  not  prevail;  and  the  decision  of  the  Associate  Founders 
was  that  it  was  not  expedient  to  unite  with  the  Founders 
at  Andover.  At  the  same  time  they  expressed  a  willingness 
that  the  Andover  Founders  unite  with  them  in  the  Academy 
at  West  Newbury  under  a  new  Board,  the  joint  choice  of 
both  parties. 

After    the    Andover    gentlemen    retired,    the    Associate 


HISTORICAL    SKETCH.  87 

Founders  proceeded  to  adopt  measures  for  carrying  their 
original  design  into  execution  without  farther  delay.  They 
reiterated  their  desire  that  I  should  be  their  Professor  of 
Theology,  roting  this  appointment  in  due  form.  They  again 
visited  Newlmry,  in  regard  to  location.  Dr.  Spring  was, 
of  course,  exceedingly  gratified  with  the  result  of  the  Con- 
ference, and  urged  the  gentlemen  to  lose  no  time  in  accom- 
plishing their  benevolent  design. 

But  to  Dr.  Pearson  and  Mr.  Farrar  this  decision  was 
painful.  They  had  been  perfectly  convinced  that  a  union  was 
both  desirable  and  practicable,  and  had  cherished  confident 
hope  that  it  could  be  secured,  but  after  all  their  efforts  and 
explanations,  they  found  themselves  totally  disappointed. 
On  their  way  to  Andover  they  informed  me  of  the  result  of 
the  meeting  at  Newburyport,  which  was  as  painful  to  me 
as  to  them.  They  told  me  they  despaired  of  immediate 
union,  and  must  take  measures  to  accomplish  alone  the  de- 
sign of  the  Aridover  Founders. 

Our  interview  was  short.  I  merely  said  to  them,  '"'•that  in 
my  view  the  matter  was  not  ended — that  the  time  of  their  despair, 
was  the  time  of  my  hope,  and  I  desired  them  to  do  nothing 
till  they  heard  from  me." 

Hitherto,  as  my  situation  had  been,  I  had  deemed  it  proper 
for  me  to  do  nothing  more  than  to  suggest  to  Dr.  Spring  and  to 
other  individuals  the  reasons  which  seemed  to  me  of  weight 
in  favor  of  coalition,  but  I  felt  now  that  I  had  a  work  to  perform. 
I  wrote  a  letter  to  Dr.  Spring  and  the  Associate  Founders 
giving  them  in  detail  the  reasons  which  had  occurred  to  my 
mind  in  favor  of  a  united  Institution.  I  spoke  of  the  advan- 
tages of  one  building  and  one  library.  I  suggested  that  one 
set  of  Professors  could  teach  a  large  number  of  students  as 
well  as  a  small  number; — that  the  Professor  supported 
by  the  Associates  Donors  would  be  able,  in  connection  with 
others,  to  educate  a  far  greater  number  of  young  men  at 
Andover,  than  in  a  separate  school; — that  their  influence  as 
strict  Calvinists  would  be  likely  to  reach  the  great  body  of 


88         HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

the  rising  Congregational  clergy  in  New  England,  whereas  it 
would  reach  but  a  small  part  in  a  separate  Institution.  I 
suggested  that  the  united  Seminary,  by  having  a  larger 
number  of  Professors,  whose  labors  would  be  devoted  to  par- 
ticular departments,  would  rise  higher  in  literary  and  theo- 
logical acquisitions,  and  so  would  secure  larger  funds  and  a 
more  extensive  patronage,  than  if  the  number  of  the  Professors 
should  be  smaller.  I  endeavored  to  show  how  many  evils 
would  probably  result  from  the  existence  of  two  rival  Insti- 
tutions in  the  same  neighborhood,  and  how  effectually  these 
evils  might  be  prevented  by  the  proposed  union.  I  reminded 
them  that  as  the  gentlemen  at  Andover  had  made  us  an  offer 
of  union  on  reasonable  terms,  the  reproach  of  disunion  would 
fall  wholly  on  us,  if  we  refused  their  offer.  I  did  what  I 
could  to  remove  any  remaining  fears  respecting  the  orthodoxy 
of  the  Andover  party.  I  told  them  that  I  once  had  fears  my- 
self, but  that  they  were  now  removed,  and  that  I  fully  believed 
the  gentlemen  in  Andover  were  truly  desirous  to  support 
strict  Calvinism,  and  were  resolved  that  the  divinity  of  the 
Seminary  should  not  fall  one  inch  below  what  the  framers  of 
the  Catechism  meant. 

I  felt  assured  that  I  knew  something  of  the  character  and 
motives  of  the  Associate  Founders,  and  I  at  once  resolved  to 
follow  the  statements  in  my  letter,  by  personal  conversation 
with  each  of  them.  I  resolved  to  tell  them  without  reserve 
what  were  my  own  convictions,  and  to  see  whether  they 
could  not  be  induced  on  a  farther  consideration  of  the  whole 
subject  to  reverse  their  decision.  I  was  not  so  well  acquainted 
with  Mr.  Norris1  as  with  the  other  gentlemen,  and  I  was 
aware  that  from  the  first  he  had  felt  stronger  objections  against 
the  union  than  the  other  Founders.  To  him,  therefore;  I  laid 
open  without  reserve,  my  serious  apprehensions  of  the  evils 
which  would  be  likely  to  result  from  the  existence  of  two 
separate  schools  of  Theology  in  the  same  vicinity,  and  the 
various  reasons  which  seemed  to  me  conclusive  in  favor  of 

1  See  Appendix,  letter  from  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse,  April  10,  1807. 


HISTORICAL    SKETCH.  89 

a  union.  I  finally  told  him  that  if  he  and  the  gentlemen 
associated  with  him  continued  to  reject  the  proposed  coalition, 
I  should  deem  it  my  duty  to  decline  the  office  of  Professor  to 
which  they  had  so  kindly  invited  me. 

At  the  close  of  our  conversation,  Mr.  Norris  showed  that 
his  mind  was  deeply  impressed  with  the  considerations  I  had 
suggested,  and  told  me  that  he  was  in  favor  of  union  if  it 
could  be  brought  about  on  safe  and  reasonable  terms.  He 
requested  that  I  should  at  my  earliest  convenience  converse 
with  Dr.  Spring  and  the  Associate  Founders. 

I  next  saw  Mr.  Bartlett,  and  informed  him  of  what  had 
passed  between  Mr.  Norris  and  myself.  Mr.  Bartlett  said  at 
once  that  he  had  been  all  along  desirous  of  union  and  that 
he  saw  no  reason  why  it  should  not  take  place.  He  advised 
me  to  call  on  Mr.  Brown,  and  if  his  opinion  was  what  he 
supposed  it  to  be,  to  open  the  subject  to  Dr.  Spring. 

Mr.  Brown  was  strongly  in  favor  of  a  union,  and  thought 
that  their  recent  decision  against  it  ought  to  be  reconsidered. 

It  was  now  my  duty  to  see  Dr.  Spring,  but  the  thought 
of  such  a  meeting  was  inexpressibly  repugnant.  My  love 
and  veneration  for  him,  and  my  gratitude  to  him  for  his 
uniform  kindness,  urged  me  to  acquiesce  in  his  wishes.  On 
the  other  hand,  the  wisest  and  best  ministers,  far  and  near, 
considered  the  union  to  be  of  essential  consequence  to  the 
interests  of  truth  arid  piety ;  while  my  own  desire  for  union 
and  my  conviction  of  its  importance  were  stronger  than 
words  could  express.  In  addition  to  this,  I  had  received 
assurances  that  two  at  least  of  the  Associate  Donors  desired  the 
same  thing,  and  that  their  late  decision  against  it  resulted, 
not  so  much  from  their  own  sober  judgment  as  from  their 
regard  for  the  opinions  and  wishes  of  others. 

I  knew  well  that  Dr.  Spring  was  exceedingly  gratified 
with  the  result  of  the  late  conference, — that  he  was  unaltered 
in  his  preference  for  a  separate  school,  and  I  knew  also  with 
what  hope  and  zeal  he  was  exerting  himself  for  the  speedy 
accomplishment  of  his  favorite  object.  He  had  been  a  father 


90         HISTORY  OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

to  me,  and  I  owed  him  filial  reverence  and  gratitude.  I 
could  not  without  pain  think  of  doing  anything  to  thwart 
his  long-cherished  designs.  In  none  of  the  previous  trans- 
actions had  I  placed  myself  in  the  attitude  of  resistance  to 
his  wishes,  and  nothing  but  a  deliberate  and  strong  conviction 
of  duty  would  have  induced  me  to  do  it  at  the  present 
time. 

But  Dr.  Spring,  I  well  knew,  was  possessed  of  uncommon 
magnanimity,  and  I  was  confident  that  he  would  not  se- 
verely blame  me  for  doing  what  he  had  so  often  done  himself, 
that  is,  endeavoring  to  please  God,  rather  than  man.  I  had  a 
conviction  that,  however  sound  his  judgment  in  ordinary 
cases,  and  however  upright  and  pious  his  intentions  in  the 
present  case,  the  cause  he  was  now  pursuing  was  contrary 
to  the  will  of  God,  and  that  on  farther  reflection,  he  himself 
would  view  it  in  this  light. 

With  this  mixture  of  thoughts  and  emotions,  hoping  and 
fearing,  and  looking  to  God  for  direction,  I  repaired  to  his 
house,  where,  with  the  utmost  respect,  but  without  reserve, 
I  told  him  what  I  thought,  and  what  I  had  done;  and  what 
message  I  had  brought  from  the  Donors. 

For  a  moment  the  good  man,  for  the  first  time,  looked 
frowningly  upon  me,  and  said,  with  a  rebuking  emphasis, 
"  You  have  trigged  our  wheels." 

His  displeasure  was  not  so  much  at  me  personally,  as  at 
the  obstacle  I  had  thrown  in  his  way.  Still,  although  he 
was  ready  to  admit  that  I  had  acted  uprightly,  he  could  not 
at  once  rid  his  mind  of  the  disquietude  which  I  had  occa- 
sioned. After  a  few  weeks,  however,  my  intercourse  with 
him  came  to  be  attended  with  the  same  harmony  of  views, 
and  the  same  freedom  and  happiness,  as  formerly.  It  was 
only  necessary  that  he  should  confer  freely  with  Messrs. 
Brown  and  Bartlett  to  settle  it  in  his  mind  that  the  plan  of 
a  separate  school  seemed  likely  to  be  abandoned;  and  that 
Divine  Providence  pointed  to  Andover  as  the  place  for  a 
united  Seminary.  In  regard  to  what  had  been  his  favorite 


HISTORICAL    SKETCH.  91 

object  he  used  to  say,  "  I  find  all  the  elements  against  me.'* 
Henceforth  his  thoughts  and  efforts  began  to  harmonize  with 
what  he  saw  to  be  the  Divine  pleasure,  and  he  even  ad- 
mitted to  me  that  it  might  be  best  after  all  that  a  union  on 
some  plan  should  take  place.  Like  a  good  and  faithful 
servant  of  Jesus  Christ,  he  resolved  to  do  all  he  could  to 
secure  such  a  union  as  would  most  effectually  promote  the 
cause  of  pure  and  undefiled  religion.  Another  plan  was~  1 
proposed  by  Dr.  Spring  about  this  time;  namely,  that  the  / 
Associate  Donors  should  go  to  Andover,  but  should  go  with 
their  own  Divinity  School,  their  own  funds,  their  own  Con- 
stitution, their  own  Trustees,  or  Directors,  and  their  own 
Professor  or  Professors,  and  that  they  should  so  join  their 
school  to  the  Andover  school  as  to  make  one  complete 
Seminary.  In  a  letter  to  Dr.  Church,  at  this  date,  I  refer 
to  this  junction.1 

We  come  now  to  a  new  turn  in  the  course  of  events  re- 
lative to  the  object  in  view.  More  than  six  months  of  anx- 
ious thought,  earnest  discussion  and  negotiation,  had  ended 
in  a  determination  of  the  Associate  Founders,  which  was 
understood  to  be  final,  to  have  no  connection  with  the 
Andover  Seminary.2 

In  consequence  of  this  decision,  the  Founders  at  Andover, 
being  weary  of  efforts  for  union,  and  seeing  no  ground  to 
expect  that  farther  negotiations  would  be  successful,  had 
plainly  indicated  their  purpose  to  proceed  without  delay 
to  found  a  Divinity  School  in  connection  with  Phillips 
Academy. 

As  the  legal  power  of  the  Trustees  to  hold  funds  was  not 
adequate  to  their  present  object,  it  was  necessary  that  they 
should  obtain  a  new  Act  of  the  Legislature  authorizing  them 
to  receive  and  hold  additional  funds.  Accordingly  they 
petitioned  the  General  Court  of  Massachusetts,  for  the  nee- 

1  See  letter  in  Appendix  under  date  July  27,  1807,  from  L.  Woods  to  Dr. 
Church. 

2  See  in  Appendix,  letters  from  April  1  to  June  15. 


92         HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

essary  enlargement  of  their  power.  In  compliance  with  their 
petition  the  General  Court,  on  the  20th  day  of  June,  1807, 
passed  the  Act,  by  which  they  were  authorized  to  hold  funds 
affording  an  annual  income  of  five  thousand  dollars.1 

This  Act  was  accepted  by  the  Trustees  at  a  regular 
meeting,  September  2,  1807.  Nothing  now  was  necessary  to 
complete  the  work  of  founding  the  Seminary,  but  for  the 
Founders  to  execute  a  legal  instrument  containing  their 
Constitution  or  Statutes,  and  committing  the  funds  which 
had  been  provided  to  the  Trustees  of  Phillips  Academy. 
Accordingly  on  the  31st  day  of  August,  1807,  in  the  presence 
of  witnesses,  Samuel  Abbot,  Phoebe  Phillips  and  John 
Phillips  signed  and  sealed  an  instrument  called,  "The 
Constitution  of  the  Theological  Seminary."2 

On  the  second  day  of  September,  1807,  they  communicated 
the  Constitution  with  all  its  provisions  to  the  Trustees, 
whereupon  they  passed  the  following  vote, — 

"  Voted,  That  the  Trustees  of  Phillips  Academy  do  most 
gratefully  accept  the  sacred  and  very  important  trust  de- 
volved upon  them  by  the  preceding  Instrument,  and  do 
hereby  covenant  arid  engage  that  no  exertion  on  their 
part  shall  be  wanting  to  secure  the  success  of  an  Institution 
so  intimately  connected  with  the  glory  of  God,  the  advance- 
ment of  the  Redeemer's  kingdom,  and  the  salvation  of  theii 
fellowmen." 

By  way  of  explanation  I  must  say  here  that  there  can 
be  no  reasonable  doubt  that  the  Andover  gentlemen  were 
induced  to  accelerate  their  movements  toward  a  full  organi- 
zation of  their  Seminary,  by  knowing  the  designs  of  Dr. 
Spring  and  the  Associate  Donors.  For,  previously  to  April 
16,  1807,  Mr.  Abbot  had  only  made  provision  in  his  will  to 
establish  a  Divinity  School  in  Phillips  Academy  after  Ms 
decease.  But  in  the  new  circumstances  which  had  occurred  he 
was  induced  to  anticipate  a  portion  of  his  bequest,  and  apply 
it  to  present  use. 

i  See  Part  II.,  page  217.  2  See  Constitution,  Part  IL,  page  232. 


HISTORICAL    SKETCH.  93 

Madam  Phillips  also  and  her  son  deemed  it  expedient  to 
join  with  Mr.  Abbot  in  founding  the  Seminary,  and  engaged 
to  furnish  the  necessary  buildings.  Accordingly  in  behalf 
of  these  Founders  Dr.  Pearson  and  Mr.  Farrar  prepared  a 
Constitution  for  their  Seminary  as  I  have  mentioned  above, 
and  which  was  taken  chiefly  from  the  provisions  before  made 
in  Mr.  Abbot's  last  will. 

It  was  during  the  latter  part  of  June,  or  the  first  of  July, 
that  I  was  so  happy  as  to  be  empowered  to  renew  negotia- 
tions with  the  gentlemen  at  Andover. 

Dr.  Pearson  frequently  visited  Newburyport,  and  Dr. 
Spring  made  repeated  visits  to  Andover;  while  it  was  my 
lot  to  keep  up  a  free  and  happy  intercourse  with  the  gen- 
tlemen on  both  sides. 

It  was  now  no  longer  the  question  whether  the  two  seta 
of  Founders  should  unite  in  establishing  one  Institution,  but 
what  should  be  the  manner  of  the  union. 

One  of  the  plans  proposed  by  Dr.  Spring  was,  that  the 
Founders  should  all  unite  in  founding  a  Theological  Seminary 
at  West  Newbury  under  a  new  Board,  and  without  any  con- 
nection with  Phillips  Academy.  This  project  he  advocated 
somewhat  earnestly  for  a  time. 

Another  plan,  which  was  sometimes  called  the  third  plan, 
and  which  has  been  mentioned  before,  was ;  that  the  Associate 
Founders  and  those  in  Andover,  should  establish  two  Institu- 
tions in  the  same  place,  under  two  separate  and  independent 
Boards;  that  the  departments  of  theological  instruction  should 
be  divided  between  the  two  Institutions,  and  that  the  students 
should  enjoy  the  advantages  of  both,  passing  from  one  to  the 
other,  as  though  they  belonged  to  the  same  Institution. 

As  will  be  seen  by  my  letters  in  the  Appendix,  it  was  my 
particular  desire  that  each  party  should  patiently  and  can- 
didly consider  any  plan  of  union  which  might  be  suggested 
by  the  other;  so  that  after  a  careful  examination  of  the  dif- 
ferent plans,  that  one  which  was  supported  by  the  best  rea- 
sons might  be  adopted. 


94         HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

For  a  time  the  attention  of  the  parties  was  engrossed  by 
this  third  plan.  Dr.  Spring  went  to  Andover  to  attend  to  the 
business  and  returned  Oct.  22.  He  and  Dr.  Pearson  prepared 
about  a  dozen  articles  of  agreement,  and  Dr.  Pearson  said 
that  these  were  not  half  what  was  wanted.  He  said  it,  proba- 
bly, to  signify  that  he  considered  it  a  hard  task  to  free  the 
plan  from  its  extraordinary  perplexities,  and  to  reduce  it  to  a 
state  of  consistency  and  order.  This  and  other  things  I  com- 
municated to  Dr.  Morse,  then  absent  on  a  journey.1 

The  Visitatorial  scheme  had  previously  been  mentioned 
by  Dr.  Pearson,  and  was  considered  by  the  Andover  party  to 
be  preferable  to  any  other.  But  Dr.  Spring,  and  especially 
Mr.  Norris,  deemed  it  inadmissible.  Now,  after  much  discus- 
sion and  real  desire  to  unite  on  some  safe  basis,  the  Visitato- 
rial plan  again  came  up  for  consideration.  As  proposed  by 
Dr.  Pearson,  it  was  substantially  as  follows,  namely,  that  the 
Founders  on  both  sides  should  appoint  a  Board  of  Visitors 
over  their  foundation,  which  should  exercise  a  control  over 
the  doings  of  the  Trustees  relative  to  the  Associate  Founda- 
tion— that  they  should  have  the  power  of  a  negative  upon  the 
choice  of  every  Associate  Professor  by  the  Trustees,  and  should 
see  that  the  affairs  of  the  Associate  Founders  were  adminis- 
tered by  the  Trustees  and  the  Professors  according  to  the 
Statutes  of  the  Founders.3 

The  first  objection  to  this  was,  that  the  proposed  Seminary 
in  Andover  was  to  be  so  identified  with  Phillips  Academy, 
as  to  come  under  the  same  incorporating  Act,  and  that  a 
new  Board  of  Visitors  could  not  be  consistently  admitted. 

This  objection,  so  confidently  urged,  particularly  by  Mr. 
Norris,  occasioned  serious  difficulties.  It  was  at  length  agreed 
by  the  parties,  in  accordance  with  a  suggestion  from  Dr. 
Church,  that  two  men  distinguished  as  civilians,  namely, 
Gov.  Strong  and  Hon.  George  Bliss,  should  be  requested  to 

'  See  in  Appendix,  letter  to  Dr.  Morse  from  L.  Woods,  Oct.  22,  1807;  also 
from  L.  W.  to  Dr.  Church,  Oct.  24. 

2  See  in  Appendix,  Mr.  Norris'  letter  to  Dr.  Church,  Sept.  21,  1807,  Dr. 
Spring's  letter  to  me,  Jan.  1,  1808. 


HISTORICAL    SKETCH.  95 

examine  the  subject  and  give  their  deliberate  opinion  on  the 
validity  of  the  Visitatorial  system.  Dr.  Spring  and  Dr.  Pearson 
wrote  to  Gov.  Strong  of  Northampton,  and  Mr.  Farrar  to  Hon. 
Mr.  Bliss  of  Springfield. 

The  opinion  of  both  gentlemen  was,  that  the  Visitatorial 
system  would  be  valid,  and  safe;  although  Gov.  Strong  had 
some  doubts  as  to  the  necessity  or  expediency  of  introduc- 
ing it.1 

These  letters  exerted  a  very  happy  influence.  Dr.  Spring 
was  in  a  good  degree  satisfied,  and  did  what  he  could,  in 
connection  with  Messrs.  Brown  and  Bartlett,  to  satisfy  Mr. 
Norris,  who  held  fast  to  his  objections  till  near  the  middle  of 
December.2 

I  wish  here  to  say  that  the  direction  which  was  given  to 
my  agency  in  the  difficult  circumstances  which  I  have  de- 
scribed, has  always  been  to  me  a  subject  of  pleasing  recollec- 
tion, and  of  devout  thanksgiving.  The  union  which  in  due 
time  resulted  from  the  course  of  measures  I  have  described, 
was,  I  am  happy  to  say,  looked  upon  by  Dr.  Spring  with 
growing  satisfaction,  nor  did  he  ever  manifest  the  least  dis- 
satisfaction at  the  course  I  had  felt  it  my  duty  to  pursue. 
Feeling  now  convinced  that  a  union  was  the  will  of  God,  he 
used  every  endeavor  to  bring  it  about  in  a  safe  and  honorable 
manner. 

Dr.  Pearson  used  to  honor  his  singular  magnanimity  in 
this  respect,  saying  that  "he  never  knew  a  man  who  could  so 
thoroughly  give  up  a  favorite  object;  and  so  cordially  act 
with  those  who  had  successfully  opposed  his  long-cherished 
wishes."  8 

But  we  must  return  to  events  of  an  earlier  date.  In 
August  Dr.  Spring  made  a  long  visit  to  Andover  during 
which  important  business  was  transacted  between  him  and 
Dr.  Pearson.  It  may  readily  be  inferred  from  Dr.  Pearson's 

1  See  Gov.  Strong's  letter  to  Dr.  Spring,  dated  Oct.  27,  1807,  and  Mr.  Bliss' 
letter  to  Mr.  Farrar,  Oct.  28,  1807. 

2  See  Dr.  Church's  letter  to  Mr.  Norris,  Oct.  12,  1807. 

3  See  Appendix,  letter  from  Dr.  Pearson  to  Dr.  Morse,  dated  August  22, 1807. 


96         HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

letters  at  that  time,  that  Dr.  Spring  came  to  a  better  under- 
standing of  the  Visitatorial  system,  and  that  he  was  in  a 
good  degree  satisfied  that  a  union  might  be  safely  formed  on 
that  plan.  It  was  either  at  that  time,  or  on  a  subsequent 
visit  a  few  weeks  later,  that  the  Report  mentioned  by  Dr. 
Spring,  October  3,  was  prepared  to  be  laid  before  the  Donors. 
This  Report  was  in  favor  of  union  on  Visitatorial  principles; 
and  it  was  expected  that  it  would  meet  the  approbation  of 
the  Donors.  Accordingly  Dr.  Pearson  and  those  associated 
with  him  thought  they  had  good  reason  to  expect  that  a 
union  would  soon  be  formed  in  the  manner  which  had  been 
advocated. 

Dr.  Spring  had  indeed  hesitated  long  before  he  gave 
his  approbation  to  the  Visitatorial  system.  He  feared  still 
that  it  was  not  consistent  with  the  laws  of  the  Common- 
wealth. In  order  to  satisfy  himself  more  fully  on  this  point 
he  had  himself  written  to  Judge  Smith  of  Exeter,  N.  H., 
and  Hon.  Judge  Daggett  of  New  Haven,  Conn.,  two  of  the 
most  distinguished  lawyers  and  civilians  in  New  England. 
It  was  well  known  that  Harvard  College,  had,  from  the 
beginning  been  placed  under  visitatorial  superintendence, 
and  the  validity  of  such  a  provision  had  been  shown  by 
the  successive  acts  of  our  Legislature,  through  the  whole 
period  of  the  existence  of  the  College. 

But  the  Associate  Founders  claimed  higher  powers  for 
their  Visitors  than  had  been  exercised  by  the  Overseers 
of  Harvard  College.  To  prevent  all  occasion  of  dispute 
and  all  doubt  in  future  time,  it  was  their  determination 
that  the  powers  and  duties  of  the  Visitors  should  be  fully 
and  exactly  defined.  To  effect  this,  cost  much  consultation 
and  labor,  and  the  burden  of  the  undertaking  devolved 
on  Dr.  Pearson. 

This  subject,  among  others,  being  satisfactorily  settled, 
preparations  began  to  be  made  for  a  meeting  in  Charlestown, 
Dec.  1,  1807.  It  was  by  much  careful  discussion  between 
Drs.  Spring  and  Pearson,  and  by  many  consultations  with 


HISTORICAL    SKETCH.  97 

the  Associate  Founders,  that  the  way  was  prepared  for  the 
harmonious  meeting  which  then  took  place.  Drs.  Spring, 
Pearson,  and  Morse,  were  authorized  agents  of  the  Founders 
and  Donors,  and  in  this  capacity  of  Commissioners,  they 
came  together  under  a  deep  sense  of  their  responsibility, 
and  with  a  sincere  desire  to  form  a  union  on  the  safest  and 
best  terms.  They  remembered  past  disappointments  and 
dangers,  and  were  weary  of  delays.  After  a  serious  and  pa- 
tient consideration  of  every  part  of  the  business;  and  after 
much  fervent  prayer  to  God  for  the  guidance  of  His  Spirit, 
they  were  enabled  to  overcome  all  difficulties,  and  to  reach 
the  desired  result.  Eleven  articles,  containing  the  "General 
principles  of  union  on  the  Visitatorial  scheme"  were  before 
them,  which  they  unitedly  signed.  Article  2d  was  the 
Creed  prepared  by  Dr.  Spring,  Dr.  Pearson  and  myself, 
for  the  use  of  the  Newbury  school,  which  was  approved 
and  accepted. 

The  original  paper,  dated  Dec.  1,  1807,  containing  the 
eleven  articles  above  named  is  before  me.  It  was  put  into 
my  hands  soon  after  the  meeting  by  Dr.  Spring.  It  was 
prepared  at  Andover,  and  was  in  the  handwriting  of  Mr. 
Farrar.1 

After  this  important  instrument  was  signed,  it  seemed 
that  all  our  difficulties  were  removed,  and  that  the  question 
which  was  of  paramount  importance  was  happily  settled. 
Many  were  the  mutual  congratulations  arid  expressions  of 
gratitude  to  God,  both  in  conversation  and  in  written  cor- 
respondence among  the  friends  of  the  New  Institution.  They 
rejoiced  to  think  how  God  had  directed  and  overruled  all 
human  schemes  and  actions  for  our  good.  There  is  one  man 
still  living,  Samuel  Farrar,  Esquire,  the  only  one  beside  my- 
self who  had  a  personal  and  active  concern  in  all  these 
events.  He  knew  by  experience  what  were  the  mutual 
congratulations  and  the  devout  thanksgivings  among  the 
friends  of  the  Seminary  which  followed  this  auspicious 
1  See  Part  II.  of  this  History,  Associate  Statutes. 


98         HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

meeting.  The  clouds  were  scattered,  the  sun  shone  forth 
in  perfect  splendor.  The  way  before  us  was  now  appar- 
ently cleared  of  obstructions,  and  the  accomplishment  of 
the  desired  object  quite  certain  and  near  at  hand.1 

The  year  had  been  indeed  one  of  great  effort,  and  strong 
hope,  but  intermingled  with  incessant  disappointments,  fears 
and  perplexities;  but  now  a  clear  light  cheered  us.  For 
two  happy  weeks  no  cloud  darkened  the  sky  over  our  heads. 
The  promised  land  was  before  us,  and  we  seemed  to  have 
a  foretaste  of  its  fruits,  when,  suddenly,  we  were  thrust  back 
into  the  wilderness,  not  indeed  for  forty  years,  but  for  more 
than  forty  days. 

Here  I  must  interrupt  my  narrative  to  relate  some  facts 
which  were  significant. 

The  commission  which  Messrs.  Brown  and  Bartlett  gave 
to  Dr.  Spring  and  myself  at  our  meeting,  March  16th,  and 
which  they  afterward  often  repeated,  to  prepare  a  Con- 
stitution and  Creed  for  their  Theological  Academy  ih 
Newbury,  was  never  thrust  from  our  minds  by  any  other 
concerns.  Our  greatest  attention  was  Driven  to  the  creed. 
Dr.  Spring  had  the  chief  agency  in  composing  it,  but  often 
conferred  with  me  on  the  subject.  He  made  many  sketches 
or  outlines  which  were  from  time  to  time  revised  and  filled 
up,  till  it  was  brought  to  its  finished  and  ultimate  form. 
It  was  made  a  serious  business.  Every  part  of  it  was  con- 
sidered and  reconsidered,  examined  and  re-examined.  After 
Dr.  Spring  came  to  have  such  confidence  in  Dr.  Pearson 
as  I  have '  mentioned,  he  requested  and  obtained  his  oc- 
casional suggestions  in  regard  to  the  "  Associate  Constitu- 
tion and  Creed."  It  was  formed  gradually,  and  occupied 
much  time  between  March  and  June.  The  following  act 
will  cast  light  on  subsequent  transactions. 

When  it  was  found  that  the  principal  difficulty  in  the 
way  of  union,  arose  from  an  apprehension  on  the  part  of 
Dr.  Spring  and  the  Associate  Donors,  that  the  Andover 
«  See  Appendix,  letters  dated  Dec.  8th,  llth,  12th  and  13th,  1807. 


HISTORICAL    SKETCH.  99 

Founders  and  their  particular  friends  were  not  thoroughly 
Orthodox,  Dr.  Pearson  and  Dr.  Morse  seeing  this,  said  to 
Dr.  Spring,  "  If  you  will  make  such  a  statement  of  the 
doctrines  of  the  Gospel,  in  the  form  of  a  creed,  as  will  be 
satisfactory  to  the  Associate  Founders  and  yourself,  and 
will  pass  it  to  Andover,  we  have  no  doubt  it  will  be  ap- 
proved there."  They  said  this  to  show  that,  in  their  view, 
there  was  no  such  difference  of  theological  opinion  between 
the  parties  as  should  hinder  a  union.  This  was  urged  with 
great  confidence  in  the  result.  Dr.  Pearson,  referring  to 
our  Creed,  which  he  had  seen,  said,  "  When  that  Creed  is 
finished,  show  it  to  the  gentlemen  at  Andover." 

This  was  done,  and  their  full  approbation  was  given 
to  the  instrument. 

It  will  be  kept  in  mind  as  a  matter  of  consequence  and 
as  indispensable  to  a  right  understanding  of  the  views  of 
Dr.  Spring,  the  Associate  Founders  and  myself,  that  our 
Creed  was  formed  professedly  and  really,  for  the  projected 
Divinity  School  at  West  Newbury.  It  will  be  seen  that 
Dr.  Spring,  during  all  this  time,  from  March  till  after  June, 
was  decidedly  opposed  to  any  connection  with  Phillips  Acad- 
emy, and  that  the  Associate  Donors,  though  less  decided 
than  Dr.  Spring  against  the  proposal  from  Andover,  did  on 
the  whole  act  in  accordance  with  him.  Consequently,  in 
composing  the  Creed,  Dr.  Spring  had  no  intention  to  unite 
with  the  Seminary  which  was  to  be  established  there,  and 
of  course  did  nothing  for  the  purpose  of  securing  the  favor 
of  the  Andover  party,  or  in  the  way  of  compromise  with 
them.  There  was  a  compromise  afterward  when  the  union 
was  formed,  but  there  was  no  occasion  and  no  place  for 
compromise  here. 

I  have  said  that  this  Creed  was  completed  before  the  15th 
of  June,  when  the  Conference  was  held.  Of  this  there  is 
documentary  evidence,  namely,  that  "  in  the  Articles  of 
agreement  signed  at  Charlestown,  Dec.  1,  1807,  the  Com- 
missioners adopt  the  Creed  which  was  presented  at  the  Con- 


100       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

ference  in  Newburyport,  June  15th,  by  Dr.  Spring  and  the 
Associate  Founders,  as  a  concise  and  permanent  Creed." 

The  Creed  contained  in  the  published  statutes  of  the 
Associate  Founders,  is  thus  identified  with  the  Creed  agreed 
upon  at  Charlestown,  Dec.  1st,  and  that  is  identified  with 
the  Creed  presented  at  the  Conference  the  preceding  June.1 
And  this  Creed,  prepared  for  our  Academy  at  West  Newbury, 
is  the  same  which  was  finally  inserted  in  the  Associate 
Statutes,  and  added  to  the  Catechism  by  the  Additional 
Statutes. 

Some  one  may  inquire  how  this  Creed  was  framed,  and 
why  we  did  not  accept  the  Creed  of  Dr.  Spring's  church,  or 
of  any  other  of  the  churches  in  the  vicinity;  or  why  we  did 
not  use  one  of  the  symbols  prepared  by  our  Puritan  fathers ; 
or  why  we  did  not  adopt  the  Shorter  Catechism,  which  Dr. 
Spring  and  the  Associate  Founders  and  myself  held  in 
such  high  esteem.  I  answer  that  there  were  several  weighty 
reasons  against  choosing  either  of  these  symbols.  The  West- 
minster Confession  of  Faith  was  too  long  to  be  repeated  by 
a  Professor,  except  by  a  general  declaration  of  assent,  and 
with  this  we  could  not  be  satisfied.  Our  object  was  to  have 
a  creed  which  would  make  an  impression  on  the  mind  of  the 
Professor,  and  that  he  would  deliberately  repeat  as  the 
several  articles  of  his  faith. 

There  was  another  consideration  which  had  influence  on 
my  mind  and  in  which  Dr.  Spring  agreed,  namely,  that 
some  of  the  words  and  phrases  in  the  Catechism,  though  they 
might  be  intended  by  the  Westminster  Assembly  to  convey 
important  truths,  had  now  a  sense,  or  were  apt  to  convey  a 
sense,  which  would  involve  incorrect  views  of  Divine  truth ; 
and  which  therefore  could  not  be  safely  employed  without 
explanation.  As  such  an  explanation  would  be^out  of  place 
in  such  an  instrument,  it  was  deemed  expedient  to  make  use 

1  In  another  copy  of  the  articles  of  agreement  prepared  at  Andover  and 
from  which  the  articles  signed  by  Drs.  Pearson  and  Spring  were  evidently 
copied  with  some  additions,  "June  "  is  again  mentioned  as  the  time  of  the 
Conference. 


HISTORICAL    SKETCH.  101 

of  words  and  phrases,  which  would  be  as  sure,  as  any  human 
language  could  be,  to  convey  the  exact  meaning  intended. 

On  these  and  other  accounts  it  was,  therefore,  deemed 
expedient  that  we  ourselves  prepare  a  particular  statement 
of  evangelical  doctrines,  in  the  form  of  a  Confession  of  Faith, 
to  be  repeated  and  subscribed  by  every  Professor. 

It  having  been  determined  that  we  should  compose  such 
a  Confession  of  Faith  for  our  Theological  Academy,  our  re- 
solve was  that  it  must  contain  a  clear,  intelligible  statement  of 
the  great  doctrines  of  the  Gospel — it  must  exhibit  the  main 
features  of  the  Christian  revelation.  It  was  moreover  obvious 
that  the  contents  and  form  of  our  Creed  must  be  made  to 
correspond  with  the  truly  liberal  and  unsectarian  views  of 
the  Associate  Founders.  Had  they  designed  to  establish 
a  sectarian  school,  they  would  have  desired  a  sectarian  creed. 
It  was  the  special  and  declared  object  of  Dr.  Spring  and  my- 
self, to  whom  was  committed  this  solemn  work,  that  it  should 
be  such  as  would  satisfy  the  Orthodox  community;  and  par- 
ticularly such  as  would  secure  for  our  School  the  support  and 
co-operation  of  the  great  body  of  Congregational  and  Presby- 
terian ministers  and  churches.  We  were  well  aware  that  in  or- 
der to  do  this  the  Creed  must  contain  the  doctrines  of  our  Puri- 
tan ancestors,  which  were  the  doctrines  of  strict  Calvinism. 
If  it  fell  short  of  this  it  would  be  deemed  defective.  If  it 
went  beyond  this,  it  would  excite  dissatisfaction.  The  char- 
acter of  our  Orthodox  community  made  it  perfectly  clear 
that  the  standard  of  doctrine  in  our  Theological  Academy 
must  be  thoroughly  Calvinistic,  nothing  short  of  it,  nothing 
incompatible  with  it.  Such  was  the  well-known  view  of 
Dr.  Spring  and  even  of  Dr.  Emmons. 

In  explanation  of  my  own  views  I  wish  to  say  that  from 
the  beginning  of  my  ministry,  the  co-operation  of  Hopkin- 
sians  and  Calvinists,  in  their  endeavors  to  do  good,  had  been 
an  object  of  my  earnest  desire.  I  had  enjoyed  happy  inter- 
course and  intimate  friendship  with  both  classes,  and  long 
before  the  commencement  of  any  negotiations  between  New- 


102       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

buryport  and  Andover,  and  before  anything  was  definitely 
known  of  the  two  schemes  afterwards  projected  for  a  Theologi- 
cal Institution,  I  had  a  full  persuasion  that  no  such  Institu- 
tion could  meet  the  wants  of  the  church  arid  accomplish  the 
good  desired,  which  should  not  secure  the  united  confidence 
and  support  of  the  great  body  of  Congregational  and  Presby- 
terian ministers  and  churches  in  our  country.  In  my  inter- 
course with  ministers  I  kept  this  point  constantly  before  me.1 

It  was  afterward  acknowledged  that  this  Creed,  exhibited 
in  the  Conference  at  Newburyport,  June  15,  1807,  and  agreed 
upon  at  Charlestown,  Dec.  1st,  1807,  and  made  a  part  of  the 
Associate  Statutes,  at  Andover,  executed  March  31st,  1808, 
was  plainly  adapted  to  the  above-mentioned  design.  Some 
who  called  themselves  "  liberal  Christians "  endeavored  to 
stigmatize  it  by  calling  it  a  Hopkinsian  creed,  and  so  they 
would  have  called  any  creed  which  contained  thorough  and 
consistent  Calvinism.  It  was  subscribed  by  Dr.  Pearson,  Dr. 
Griffin,  Professor  Stuart,  Dr.  Porter,  and  Dr.  Murdock.  It 
was  approved  by  Gov.  Strong,  Dr.  D  wight,  and  Hon.  George 
Bliss,  Drs.  Worcester,  Hurnphrey,  and  Codman,  and  all  the 
other  Visitors  from  the  beginning  to  the  present  time. 

It  was  once  attacked  before  the  Supreme  Court  as  con- 
taining principles  incompatible  with  the  Shorter  Catechism ; 
and  thus  nullifying  the  legacy  of  Mrs.  Norris  to  the  Semi- 
nary. But  the  decision  of  the  Judges  was  in  its  favor. 

If  at  any  time  the  Creed  is  spoken  of  as  a  matter  of  com- 
promise between  the  two  parties,  the  composition  of  the  Creed 
is  not  meant,  but  its  adoption  by  the  Founders  of  the  Seminary 
in  connection  with  the  Catechism. 

At  the  risk  of  some  repetition  1  wish  to  say  that  it  is  a  con- 
spicuous fact,  a  fact  of  paramount  importance,  never  to  be 
forgotten  or  overlooked,  that  the  Creed  which  came  from  the 
hand  of  Dr.  Spring  in  the  manner  described  and  was  included 
in  the  Statutes  of  the  Associate  Founders,  arid  was  appointed 
by  them  to  be  the  unalterable  and  perpetual  standard  for 
1  See  in  Appendix,  letter  to  Dr.  Morse,  Oct.  17,  1806. 


HISTORICAL    SKETCH.  103 

all  their  Professors,  contained  in  unambiguous  language,  a 
striking  summary  of  the  doctrines  of  Calvinism.  The  gen- 
erous Donors  expected  and  required  their  Creed  to  be  so 
formed,  and  Dr.  Pearson  with  the  co-operation  of  Dr.  Spring 
and  myself  coincided  with  them  in  judgment  and  feeling 
and  intentionally  formed  a  Confession  of  Faith  which  was  purely 
and  consistently  Calviiiistic — such  a  Confession  of  Faith  as 
could  conscientiously  and  consistently  be  repeated  arid  sub- 
scribed by  Orthodox  Professors,  both  of  the  Congregational 
and  Presbyterian  denominations. 

No  other  Creed  would  have  satisfied  the  Associate  Donors, 
who,  both  by  education  and  by  their  own  intelligent  per- 
suasion were  strict  Calvinists  and  who  would  admit  of  no 
novel  speculations;  but  as  the  oldest  of  them  expressed  it, 
"  wished  for  Calvinism  up  to  the  hub." 

We  shall  see  that  the  Trustees  of  Phillips  Academy,  and 
particularly  Rev.  Mr.  French,  judged  it  to  be  so  clearly  and 
purely  Calvinistic  that  it  might  with  perfect  consistency 
be  connected  with  the  Shorter  Catechism,  which  was  or- 
dained to  be  the  unalterable  doctrinal  basis  of  the  Andover 
Seminary. 

The  Creed  was  moreover  such  that  it  actually  did  secure 
the  approbation  of  the  Orthodox  community  throughout  the 
country. 

It  may  be  thought  strange  that  the  letters  of  this  period 
make  no  mention  of  the  formation  of  the  Creed.  The  fact 
was,  that  during  the  six  or  more  weeks  when  it  was  under 
consideration,  we  were  together  as  much  as  was  consistent 
with  other  duties,  and  there  was  no  occasion  for  writing. 
But  to  return  to  my  narrative. 

Suddenly  it  became  known  to  the  best  friends  of  the 
union,  that  there  was  a  very  serious  difficulty  still  to  be 
encountered,  and  their  question  was,  u  How  shall  we  dispose 
of  it?"  But  I  must  explain. 

From  the  first  the  Associate  Donors  had  determined  to 
provide  for  a  Professor  of  Christian  Theology,  and  the} 


104      HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

had  early  appointed  their  Professor.  They  were  indeed  told 
that  Mr.  Abbot  had  provided  for  the  support  of  a  Professor 
in  the  same  department,  in  his  Statutes,  and  that  on  account 
of  his  age  and  his  strong  predilections  he  could  not  with 
propriety  be  requested  to  recede  from  that  ground. 

The  Associate  Founders  did  not  question  Mr.  Abbot's 
right,  but  in  all  their  proceedings  they  had  thought  of  no 
other  department  but  that  of  Christian  Theology,  and  being 
unlearned  men,  as  Mr.  Abbot  also  was  in  such  matters, 
they  could  not  easily  be  convinced  that  either  of  the  other 
departments  was  of  great  consequence.  On  this  point  Dr. 
Spring  took  great  pains  to  satisfy  them,  but  in  vain.  Indeed 
they  were  inclined  to  make  it  an  indispensable  condition 
of  union,  saying,  u  If  we  go  to  Andover,  we  must  go  with 
our  own  Professor,  and  he  must  occupy  the  theological 
department." 

Although  Dr.  Spring  was  disposed  to  be  accommodating, 
and  endeavored  to  convince  the  Donors  of  the  importance 
of  the  other  departments,  his  labors  were  without  success. 
In  these  circumstances  Dr.  Pearson  and  Dr.  Morse  began 
to  fear  that  the  difficulty  which  was  likely  to  occur,  would 
prove  an  effectual  bar  to  the  union. 

To  obviate  this  difficulty  they  proposed  that  Mr.  Abbot 
should  be  persuaded  to  appoint  the  same  Professor  as  had 
been  the  choice  of  the  Associate  Donors.  It  was  their  own 
proposal,  and  did  not  result  from  any  consultation  with  me; 
though  of  course  I  never  objected  to  it.  It  was  their  opinion 
that  if  Mr.  Abbot  should  fall  in  with  their  proposal,  it  would 
have  a  conciliatory  effect,  and  the  Associate  Donors  would 
be  satisfied  that  the  united  Seminary  would  have  the  same 
instruction  in  theology  on  this  plan,  as  if  the  Professor 
they  had  chosen  should  go  to  Andover  under  their  appoint- 
ment, and  be  supported  by  their  funds.  When  Dr.  Spring 
in  his  letter  of  Feb.  9th,  1808,  said  to  Mr.  Norris,  "All  the 
Visitors  at  the  outset  choose  jointly  the  same  Professors, 
so  that  Mr.  Woods  is  Abbot  Professor  of  Revealed  Religion, 


HISTORICAL    SKETCH.  105 

and  your  Professor  of  Revealed  Religion,"  his  object  in  the 
suggestion  was  to  satisfy  Mr.  Norris.  But  there  is  confusion 
in  the  language.  The  Visitors  did  not  choose  any  Professors. 
The  first  Professors,  were  appointed  by  the  Founders  of  the 
Professorships,  independently  of  both  Trustees  and  Visitors. 
Afterward,  the  Trustees  would  choose  the  Professors  subject 
to  the  concurrence  of  the  Visitors.  Drs.  Pearson  and  Morse 
indulged  the  hope  that  this  measure  which  was  proposed 
would  take  away  what  they  then  regarded  as  the  only  bar 
to  the  union.  But  it  soon  appeared  that  they  had  under- 
taken an  arduous  work.  Some  men  who  stood  near  to 
Mr.  Abbot  objected  to  the  proposed  appointment,  because 
I  was  connected  with  Hopkinsians,  and  they  had  proposed 
to  him  other  men  for  the  office. 

About  the  middle  of  August,  1807,  Rev.  Mr.  Allen  of 
Bradford,  an  old  Calvinist,  visited  Mr.  Abbot,  and  also 
Mr.  French,  Mr.  Abbot's  minister,  and  he  held  free  conversa- 
tions with  them  upon  the  subject  of  a  Professor  of  Theology. 
In  consequence  of  this  visit  Mr.  Abbot  informed  Dr.  Pearson, 
on  the  morning  of  August  31st,  that  all  objections  were 
removed,  and  that  he  was  ready  to  make  the  appointment 
which  he  and  Dr.  Morse  had  desired. 

This  was  the  subject  to  which  Dr.  Pearson  referred  in 
his  letter  to  Dr.  Morse,  where  he  says,  "much  remains  to 
be  done,  and  many  difficulties  to  be  conquered."  "Delicacy 
and  propriety  in  this  stage  of  our  affairs  forbid  all  disclos- 
ure." "The  times  are  critical — every  one  will  be  fishing; — we 
must  for  some  time  yet  keep  ourselves  to  ourselves, — the 
adversary  is  inquisitive,  anxious,  artful,  pressing."1  The  let- 
ter which  Dr.  Pearson  wished  Dr.  Morse  to  write  Mr.  Abbot 
related  to  the  same  subject. 

But  although  Mr.  Abbot,  on  the  morning  of  August  31st, 
intended  to  make  the  appointment  above  mentioned,  his 
intention  was  not  then  divulged,  it  being  thought  best  that 
he  should  postpone  the  appointment  to  another  time.  Thus 

1  See  in  Appendix,  letters  under  date  August  22,  and  Sept.  1,  1807. 


106       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

opportunity  was  given  for  farther  consideration,  and  the 
door  was  opened  for  new  difficulties. 

Kepresentations  were  soon  made  to  Mr.  Abbot  which 
greatly  disquieted  his  mind.  Some  men  who  deservedly 
stood  high  in  his  estimation,  told  him  they  believed  1 
held  the  extreme  points  of  Hopkinsianism ;  and  that  the 
thing  he  was  requested  to  do  would  be  a  discredit  to  him, 
and  a  lasting  injury  to  the  Seminary.  Notwithstanding  the 
great  confidence  Mr.  Abbot  felt  in  Dr.  Pearson  and  Dr. 
Morse,  he  was  much  embarrassed  by  these  representations. 
For  a  time  his  resolution  was  so  shaken  that  he  knew  not 
what  to  do.  Friends  at  Andover  who  were  aware  of  his 
trouble  requested  me  to  visit  him,  and  give  him  an  oppor- 
tunity to  form  a  personal  acquaintance  with  me;  but  this, 
for  obvious  reasons,  I  declined. 

Drs.  Pearson  and  Morse  felt  that  it  was  incumbent  on 
them  to  rebut  the  objections  made  against  their  own  pro- 
posal; and  to  relieve  Mr.  Abbot  from  the  anxieties  and 
fears  which  oppressed  him.  They  had  advantages  which 
no  other  men  had,  to  exert  the  needed  influence  upon  him. 
They  reminded  him  that  Dr.  Tappan,  my  teacher  at  Cam- 
bridge, who  knew  that  I  had  studied  theology  with  Dr. 
Backus,  and  was  fond  of  the  Edwardean  theology,  was 
anxious  that  I  should  be  settled  over  his  former  people. 
They  told  him  that  although  I  was  connected  in  the  min- 
isterial Conferences  with  the  neighboring  clergymen,  Dr. 
Spring,  Dr.  Parish,  and  Dr.  Church,  who  were  regarded  as 
Hopkinsians,  yet  I  was  also  intimately  connected  with 
Dr.  Joseph  Dana  and  Dr.  Daniel  Dana.  Dr.  Morse  assured 
him  that  he  knew  well  my  views  of  theology  and  my 
character  as  a  minister  before  he  invited  me  to  be  a  joint 
editor  with  him  in  the  Panoplist.  He  knew  that  in  a  mod- 
erate sense  I  was  a  Hopkinsian,  but  on  account  of  this 
moderate  sense  he  had  chosen  me.  He  said  that  the  two 
series  of  papers  I  had  written  under  the  signatures  of 
"Pastor"  and  "Constans"  had  so  gained  the  confidence 


HISTORICAL    SKETCH.  107 

of  Dr.  Spring,  Dr.  Worcester  and  others,  and  so  convinced 
them  of  my  conciliatory  spirit  that  they  joined  with  me 
in  bringing  the  Massachusetts  Missionary  Society  to  unite 
their  Magazine  with  the  Panoplist  —  that  after  a  year's 
knowledge  of  my  views  and  my  principles  of  strict,  or  as 
he  called  it,  consistent  Calvinism,  Dr.  Spring  had  chosen 
me  as  the  Professor  of  Theology  in  his  new  Seminary. 
Dr.  Morse  also  told  him  how  zealously  I  had  argued  in 
favor  of  the  Shorter  Catechism  as  the  basis  of  union  in  the 
General  Association. 

But  notwithstanding  all  their  kind  representations,  they 
found  the  task  they  had  undertaken  far  more  difficult  than 
they  had  at  first  apprehended.  The  idea  of  introducing  into 
their  Seminary  a  Professor  who  had  been  so  intimately  con- 
nected with  Hopkinsians  as  I  had  been,  and  who  was  sup- 
posed to  agree  with  all  their  peculiar  speculations,  could  not 
but  be  alarming  to  such  a  man  as  Mr.  Abbot,  and  to  some 
other  excellent  men,  who  thought,  and  very  justly,  that 
they  had  a  right  to  express  their  opinion  without  reserve. 

The  struggle  in  Mr.  Abbot's  mind  was  long  and  painful. 
Dr.  Morse,  when  he  afterward  related  to  me  the  transactions 
above  referred  to,  informed  me  that  Mr.  Abbot  was  in  the 
utmost  perplexity  up  to  the  very  day  on  which  he  wrote  tke 
instrument  containing  his  appointment. 

In  connection  with  these  facts  it  must  be  remembered 
that  Drs.  Pearson  and  Morse  made  all  these  efforts,  not  be- 
cause they  themselves  were  less  willing  I  should  go  to  An- 
dover  as  Professor  of  Theology  on  the  Associate  Foundation 
than  on  the  Abbot  Foundation,  but  because  the  difficulty  as 
to  that  department  was  likely  to  hinder  the  union. 

This  was  the  state  of  things  for  some  time  previous  to 
Oct.  1,  1807,  at  which  time  the  Trustees  met  by  adjourn- 
ment at  the  house  of  Madarn  Phillips  in  Andover,  after 
which,  from  the  hands  of  Mr.  Farrar,  I  received  the  follow- 
ing communication, — 


108       HISTORY   OF  ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

"  Oct.  1st,  1807. 
"To  THE  TRUSTEES  OF  PHILLIPS  ACADEMY,  ANDOVER. 

"  Gentlemen, — Having  reserved  to  myself,  in  the  instru- 
ment communicated  to  you  the  2d  day  of  Sept.  last,  the 
right  of  appointing  the  first  Professor  of  Divinity  in  the 
Theological  Seminary  founded  in  this  place;  and  having 
made  diligent  inquiry  for  a  man  whose  talents,  piety,  and 
general  character  qualify  him  for  this  office;  after  mature 
and  prayerful  deliberation,  I  do  hereby  appoint  the  Rev. 
Leonard  Woods  of  Newbury  to  be  the  first  Professor  of 
Christian  Theology,  or  Revealed  Religion,  in  the  said  Semi- 
nary; requesting  the  above  may  be  communicated  to  him. 

"SAMUEL  ABBOT."1 

With  this  act  of  conciliation,  and  this  proof  of  confi- 
dence, the  Associate  Founders  were  much  gratified,  and  at 
a  meeting  held  March  2,  1808,  wishing  to  reciprocate  this 
act  of  candor,  appointed  Dr.  Pearson  as  the  Professor  on 
their  Foundation. 

And  now  every  obstacle  seemed  to  have  been  overcome. 
On  the  13th  of  October  I  had  visited  Mr.  Norris  and  had 
most  cheering  conversation  with  him  and  with  Dr.  Worcester. 
An  account  of  this  visit  I  gave  Dr.  Morse  at  once,  at  the 
same  time  telling  him  how  confident  I  was  that  Dr.  Spring 
would  act  an  honorable  and  noble  part.  But  now  another 
difficulty  arose.  Dr.  Spring  and  the  Donors  had  come  to  ex- 
press not  only  a  willingness,  but  even  a  desire  to  unite  with 
the  Founders  at  Andover,  on  the  Visitatorial  plan,  and  ne- 
gotiations had  been  made  between  Dr.  Spring  and  Dr.  Pear- 
son, to  bring  matters  to  a  happy  issue.  I  began  to  fear  that 
hindrances  to  union  might  arise  from  the  Andover  side. 
There  were,  I  knew,  some  weighty  matters  not  yet  settled. 
The  Associate  Founders  claimed  some  terms,  in  regard  to 
the  power  of  the  Visitors,  which  the  other  party  thought  in- 

1  See  in  Appendix,  letter  Dr.  Pearson  to  Dr.  Morse,  Sept.  1,  1807,  and  Mr. 
Bartlett  to  Dr.  Church,  Nov.  25,  1807. 


HISTORICAL    SKETCH.  109 

admissible.  As  I  had  exerted  myself  to  produce  a  candid, 
conciliatory  spirit  on  one  side,  I  wished  to  do  what  was  in 
my  power  to  promote  the  same  spirit  on  the  other  side. 

For  this  purpose  1  wrote  to  Mr.  Farrar,  Sept.  f.l,1  making 
to  him,  and  through  him  to  others,  such  suggestions  as  my 
own  excited  feelings  and  the  circumstances  of  the  case 
dictated. 

But  on  the  very  day  in  which,  prompted  by  a  mixture  of 
fear  and  of  hope,  I  opened  my  heart  so  fully  to  Mr.  Farrar,  a 
letter  of  very  ominous  import  was  written  by  Mr.  Norris  to 
Dr.  Church.  And  now  the  prospect  which  had  been  so 
bright  arid  animating  was  suddenly  overspread  with  dark- 
ness. An  unlooked-for  difficulty  arose,  which  greatly  per- 
plexed the  minds  of  Dr..  Spring  and  the  Donors,  and  for  a 
time  threatened  to  frustrate  all  our  efforts  for  union. 

The  fact  was  this.  Mr.  Norris  had  become  in  a  good 
measure  satisfied  with  the  Visitatorial  system  which  Dr. 
Spring  had  so  particularly  explained  and  recommended ;  but 
as  he  had  been  conversant  with  the  business  of  legislation, 
and  with  the  doings  of  our  courts  of  justice,  he  was  induced 
by  a  wise  precaution  to  go  into  a  full  examination  of  all  the 
circumstances  of  the  case,  so  that  he  might  be  perfectly  satis- 
fied of  the  safety  of  committing  their  funds  to  the  Trustees 
of  Phillips  Academy  under  the  supervision  of  Visitors.  With 
this  view  he  obtained  a  copy  of  the  Act  of  Legislature  in- 
corporating Phillips  Academy  and  carefully  inquired  what 
powers  that  Board  were  invested  with.  His  attention  was 
particularly  directed  to  the  5th  and  8th  articles  of  the 
Act.  Article  5th  is  as  follows: — 

"And  be  it  further  enacted  by  the  authority  aforesaid, 
that  the  said  Samuel  Phillips  arid  others,  the  Trustees  afore- 
said, and  their  successors,  the  longest  livers  and  survivors  of 
them,  be  the  true  and  sole  Visitors,  Trustees  and  Governors  of 

»  See  in  Appendix,  letter  to  Mr.  Farrar,  Sept.  21,  1807.     See  letter  from 
Mr.  Norris  to  Dr.  Church. 


110       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY. 

the  said  Phillips  Academy,  in  perpetual  succession  forever,  to 
be  continued  in  the  way  and  manner  hereafter  specified,  with 
full  power,  and  authority  to  elect  such  officers  of  the  said 
Academy  as  they  shall  judge  necessary  and  convenient;  and 
to  make  and  ordain  such  laws,  orders  and  rules  for  the  good 
government  of  said  Academy,  as  to  them,  the  said  Trustees, 
Governors  and  Visitors  aforesaid,  and  their  successors,  shall 
from  time  to  time  according  to  the  various  occasions  and 
circumstances  seem  most  fit  and  requisite;  all  of  which 
shall  be  observed  by  the  officers,  scholars  and  servants  of 
the  said  Academy,  upon  the  penalties  therein  contained." 
Article  8th.  "  Provided  always  that  neither  the  Trustees, 
nor  their  successors  shall  ever  hereafter  receive  any  grant 
or  donation,  the  condition  whereof  shall  require  them,  or  any 
others  concerned,  to  act  in  any  respect  counter  to  the  design 
of  the  first  granters,  or  of  any  prior  donation:  And  all  deeds 
and  instruments  which  the  said  Trustees  may  lawfully  make, 
shall,  when  made  in  the  name  of  the  said  Trustees,  and 
signed  and  delivered  by  the  Treasurer,  and  sealed  with  the 
common  seal,  bind  the  said  Trustees  to  be  valid  in  law." 

The  startling  result  of  Mr.  Norris'  examination  of  the 
subject  is  stated  in  his  letter  to  Dr.  Church.1  In  consequence 
of  these  objections,  as  stated  in  the  letter  referred  to,  to  the 
Visitatorial  scheme,  which  Mr.  Norris  urged  with  great  ear- 
nestness, both  in  conversation  and  by  correspondence,  the 
whole  aspect  of  things  was  suddenly  changed,  and  the  pros- 
pect of  union  was  for  many  months  involved  in  a  continual 
train  of  perplexities  and  dangers. 

Had  Dr.  Spring,  or  any  other  intelligent  man,  taken 
pains  to  examine  the  Act  of  Incorporation  as  Mr.  Norris  did, 
he  must  have  been  startled  by  the  same  difficulty.  Much 
was  said  to  satisfy  the  Donors  that  the  provisions  referred 
to  in  the  Act  of  Incorporation,  related  only  to  the  Academy 

i  See  in  Appendix,  letter  of  Mr.  Norris  to  Dr.  Church,  Sept.  21,  1807.  See 
also  letter  of  Sept.  1st. 


HISTORICAL    SKETCH.  Ill 

as  it  was  originally  organized.  It  was  argued,  too,  that  the 
Founders  of  the  Seminary  in  the  32d  Article  of  their  Consti- 
tution expressly  provided  that  any  Founders  of  a  Profess- 
orship, or  of  a  Scholarship,  should  have  the  right  to  appoint 
local  visitors  of  their  Foundation,  and  that  the  Trustees  had 
sanctioned  that  provision  by  accepting  the  Constitution  of 
their  Seminary,  and  engaging  to  conform  to  its  provisions. 

But  it  was  said  on  the  other  side  that  the  32d  Article  of 
the  Constitution  being  plainly  contrary  to  the  Act  of  Incorpora- 
tion was  of  course  null  and  void,  and  would  be  so  regarded  in 
any  court  of  law. 

There  was  much  warm  but  friendly  debate  on  the  subject. 
Messrs.  Brown  and  Bartlett  who  had  strong  confidence  in  the 
judgment  of  Dr.  Pearson  would  have  been  satisfied  with  his 
arguments,  had  it  devolved  on  them  alone  to  decide,  but 
Mr.  Norris  was  confident  that  his  position  was  right. 

Dr.  Spring  also  was  greatly  troubled.  Judge  Daggett  and 
Judge  Smith  had  been  written  to,  with  a  request  that  they 
would  examine  the  subject,  but  the  answers,  which  were  rather 
adverse,  did  not  arrive  till  the  negotiations  had  been  completed, 
seven  months  after  the  request  had  been  made. 

Through  the  kindness  of  Rev.  Jeremiah  Day,  D.D.,  of 
New  Haven,  I  have  obtained  Dr.  Spring's  letter  to  Judge 
Daggett,  which  I  here  insert.  His  letter  to  Judge  Smith 
was  doubtless  of  similar  import,  but  I  have  not  been  able 
to  find  it. 

"Newburyport,  Nov.  6,  1807. 
"To  THE  HON.  JUDGE  DAGGETT. 

"Worthy  Sir, — I  have  obtained  of  several  of  my  opulent 
friends  a  foundation  for  a  gratuitous  Theological  Institution 
to  qualify  young  gentlemen  for  the  ministry.  But  being 
requested  by  the  Trustees  of  Andover  Academy  to  attach 
our  Theological  department  to  the  Academy  upon  the  Visi- 
tatorial system,  we  wish  to  have  all  things  safe  in  theory  and 
prospect  before  we  coalesce.  Therefore, 


112       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

"  1st,  What  is  the  extent  of  the  Visitatorial  system  in 
England  ? 

"  2d,  Is  the  Visitatorial  system  practicable  and  safe  in  this 
country  ? 

"3d,  Since  the  incorporating  act  constitutes  the  Trus- 
tees of  the  Academy  and  the  Corporation,  the  sole  Vis- 
itors of  the  Academy,  to  prevent  the  interference  of  the 
Legislature,  can  they  consistently  receive  us,  or  can  we 
safely  attach  ourselves  to  the  Institution  on  the  Visitato- 
rial system  ? 

"  4th,  Though  the  word  Visitor  be  not  used  in  the  legal 
sense  in  the  act,  may  not  the  judiciary  in  case  of  after  diffi- 
culty use  the  word  to  our  disadvantage  if  they  please  ? 

"  5th,  If  we  coalesce  on  the  Visitatorial  system,  can  we  vest 
the  right  of  electing  Professors  in  the  Board  of  Visitors,  or 
must  the  right  be  inseparably  vested  in  the  Trustees  of  the 
Academy  ? 

"You  will  have  opportunity  to  converse  with  my  son  on 
the  subject,  who  will  explain  the  matter  more  fully. 

"I  hope,  Sir,  you  will  look  at  the  subject,  and  give  decided 
answers  to  the  questions  soon. 

"Your  obedient  servant, 

"  SAMUEL  SPRING.' 

Though  really  in  favor  of  uniting  with  the  Founders  at 
Andover,  it  seemed  to  Dr.  Spring  that  the  Act  of  Incorpora- 
tion must  be  a  legal  bar  to  the  introduction  of  Visitors. 

Such  being  the  case  he  was  anxiously  led  to  inquire  how 
the  Donors  could  unite  with  the  Seminary  just  established 
at  Andover  so  as  to  secure  all  the  benefit  of  union  without 
infringing  the  5th  and  8th  Articles  of  the  Act  of  Incorporation. 
He  immediately  brought  forward  again  the  plan  which  he 
had  before  suggested,  namely,  that  the  Associate  Donors  should 
go  to  Andover  with  their  own  funds,  their  own  Constitution, 
their  own  Board  of  Directors,  and  their  own  Professor  or  Pro 
fessors,  in  short  with  their  own  Divinity  School  complete  in 


HISTORICAL    SKETCH.  113 

itself;  and  should  so  join  their  School  with  the  Andover  School 
as  to  make  one  complete  Seminary. 

In  a  letter  written  by  Dr.  Morse  to  Dr.  Spring,  Nov.  23d, 
1807,  he  suggests  another  expedient  to  prevent  any  further 
delay  of  union. 

He  suggests  that  the  manner  of  electing  the  Professors 
should  be  left  undecided,  to  be  a  subject  of  farther  considera- 
tion after  a  period  of  five,  or  any  number  of  years  as  may  be 
agreed  upon.  This  idea  was  afterwards  developed  into  what 
was  called  "the  seven  years'  experiment."1 

Amidst  the  general  anxieties  and  fears  which  were  oc- 
casioned by  this  new  difficulty,  in  the  minds  of  Mr.  Norris 
and  Dr.  Spring,  I  wrote  to  Dr.  Morse,  just  before  the  meeting 
of  the  Board,  expressing  my  hope  that  the  cloud  which  now 
darkened  our  prospect  would  soon  pass  away — a  hope  which 
was  founded  on  past  experience.  I  was  confident  that  the 
difficulty  in  the  minds  of  those  gentlemen  would  be  obviated, 
as  other  difficulties  had  been,  and  that  on  some  eligible  terms 
a  union  would  be  formed.  I  was  so  impressed  with  the  evils 
of  separate  Divinity  Schools  in  the  same  county,  and  was  so 
desirous  that  the  parties  at  Andover  arid  Newburyport,  and 
the  two  parties  in  New  England,  should  lay  aside  their  strifes, 
and  combine  their  influence,  in  support  of  one  Theological 
Institution,  that  I  looked  with  satisfaction  and  hope  upon 
any  reasonable  method  of  union  which  could  be  devised. 

The  Donors  had  a  meeting  at  Newburyport  a  few  days 
after  Mr.  Norris'  letter  to  Dr.  Church.  At  that  meeting  Dr. 
Spring  laid  before  the  Donors  the  Report  which  he  and  Dr. 
Pearson  had  previously  prepared  in  favor  of  union  on  Visita- 
torial principles.  The  legal  difficulty  which  Mr.  Norris  stated 
was  then  fully  discussed,  and  they  were  all  satisfied  that  the 
introduction  of  Visitors  was  for  ever  precluded  by  the  Act 
of  General  Court ;  and  of  course  that  the  Report  before  them 
could  not  be  accepted.  Dr.  Spring,  in  his  letter  of  October  3d, 
sets  before  Dr.  Morse  the  feelings  which  prevailed  at  the 
1  See  in  Appendix,  letter  from  Dr.  Morse  to  Dr.  Spring. 


114      HISTORY   OF   ANDOYER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

meeting  of  the  Donors,  his  cordial  attachment  to  union,  and  to 
a  union  at  Andover;  but  this  now  seemed  impossible.  Under 
the  influence  of  this  feeling  it  was  thought  by  the  Andover 
gentlemen  that  they  must  press  forward  their  own  Seminary 
alone,  and  that  it  might  be  opened  for  the  reception  of 
students  early  in  the  spring.  The  hope  of  an  early  ad- 
justment of  the  business  was  manifested  by  commissioning 
Mr.  Farrar  to  go  to  Newburyport  and  ask  the  assistance  of 
Esq.  White  in  determining  the  nature  of  the  contract  which 
it  would  be  proper  for  the  Trustees  to  make  with  the  Donors. 

Still  another  measure  was  adopted,  which  indicated  how 
earnestly  the  gentlemen  in  Andover  were  hastening  the  ac- 
complishment of  the  union,  that  is,  Col.  John  Phillips  and  Mr. 
Holden  of  Charlestown  went  to  Providence  to  examine  the 
College  edifices,  and  prepare  a  model  or  plan  for  the  build- 
ings designed  for  the  Seminary. 

It  is  evident  that  the  actual  founding  of  the  Seminary 
in  Andover  operated  both  with  Dr.  Spring  and  the  Donors 
as  an  additional  argument  in  favor  of  union. 


CHAPTER  VII. 

POUNDING    THE     THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

I  HAVE  already  enumerated  the  difficulties  which  were 
thrown  in  our  way,  and  which  caused  us  unspeakable 
anxiety.  Had  not  past  deliverances  .taught  us  to  hope  in 
God,  we  should  have  often  abandoned  our  object  in  despair. 
Mr.  Norris  now  claimed  what  could  not  be  granted.  Nor 
could  Messrs.  Brown  and  Bartlett  be  satisfied  that  all  future 
elections  of  the  Theological  Professor  should  be  left  ex- 
clusively in  the  hands  of  the  Trustees  of  Phillips  Academy, 
and  as  to  Dr.  Spring — no  one  felt  such  anxiety  as  he  did. 
All  his  objections  and  fears  respecting  the  plan  of  Visitation 
returned  with  augmented  force,  owing  to  the  adverse  opinion 
of  the  distinguished  jurists  he  had  consulted.  Once  more  he 
began  to  think  of  the  other  plans  which  he  had  advocated, 
though  without  success. 

It  was  certainly  a  merciful  ordering  of  Providence  that 
the  communications  of  Judge  Smith  and  Judge  Daggett 
were  so  long  delayed.  Had  they  been  received  during  the 
month  of  November,  they  would  unquestionably  have  pre- 
vented the  harmonious  proceedings  at  Charlestown. 

Although  Dr.  Spring  thought  the  articles  of  agreement 
should  not  be  too  rigidly  insisted  upon,  and  that  any  mis- 
take which  had  been  inadvertently  made,  ought  to  be  at 
once  corrected;  he  did  not  wish  to  break  away  from  the 
obligations  which  he  had  brought  upon  himself  and  the 
Donors  by  signing  those  articles. 


116       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

Amid  all  the  agitations  and  perplexities  which  followed, 
it  was  manifest  that  the  doings  of  Dec.  1st  exerted  a 
salutary  influence.  He  treated  every  subject  with  marked 
candor.  He  manifested  his  desire  for  union  by  the  cautious 
use  he  made  of  the  adverse  opinions  of  Judge  Smith  and 
Judge  Daggett  which  had  just  come  to  hand.  He  was 
aware  that  a  premature  knowledge  of  those  opinions  would 
be  exceedingly  disquieting  to  the  minds  of  the  Donors,  and 
particularly  to  Mr.  Norris.  He  therefore  resolved  not  to 
communicate  them  in  haste;  though  he  felt  himself  bound 
in  honor  to  do  it,  in  due  time.  In  the  management  of  all 
the  troubles  which  occurred  at  that  period,  he  evidently  ex- 
ercised "that  wisdom  which  cometh  from  above,  and  which  is 
pure,  peaceable,  gentle,  and  easy  to  be  entreated." 

On  the  first  day  of  January  he  sent  me  a  letter  which  he 
calls  "A  New  Years  Gift."  In  this  letter  he  shows  the 
doubts  and  difficulties  which  oppressed  him  by  stating  what 
he  calls  a  few  of  his  hard  questions.1 

"1st.  What  authority  creates  Legal  offices,  and  consti- 
tutes corporations  or  bodies  politic? 

"2d.  What  authority  appoints  teachers  in  our  public 
Schools,  Academies  and  Colleges  ? 

"3d.  Can  the  Associate  Donors  appoint,  or  create,  Legal 
Visitors  over  the  Trustees  of  Andover  Theological  Insti- 
tution, or  any  branch  of  it,  any  more  than  they  can  appoint 
Governors  of  the  State,  or  the  President  of  Congress? 

"4th.  In  case  of  the  location  now  contemplated,  cannot 
any  future  trustee  legally  say  to  our  Visitors,  ''Jefferson  we 
know,  and  Sullivan  we  know,  but  who  are  ye '  ?  And  where 
is  the  money  assigned  and  given  over  to  Andover 
Trustees,  and  who  shall  apply  it  in  a  legal  manner,  you  or 
we,  notwithstanding  the  specious  obligation  given  you  by 
our  predecessors  in  office,  who  acted  illegally  ? 

"5th.  Will  the  law  consider  the  Associate  Visitors  in- 
corporated with  the  Andover  Academy ;  or  as  any  branch  of 
1  See  in  Appendix,  letter  of  Dr.  Spring,  Jan.  1,  1808. 


FOUNDING    THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY.  117 

that  corporation  during  the  septennial  experiment;  or  must 
they  be  considered  intruders  on  corporate  ground? 

"  6th.  Is  not  the  Visitatorial  System  untried,  in  the  English 
sense,  in  New  England,  and  must  there  not  be  a  revolution 
indeed  relative  to  incorporating  Academies  and  Colleges 
before  legal  rights  can  be  appointed  over  gratuitous  foun- 
dations?" 

While  these  knotty  questions  were  under  consideration  at 
Aiidover  arid  Newburyport,  it  occurred  to  me  that  there  was 
a  very  simple  and  easy  method  of  solving  them,  and  thus 
obviating  all  the  existing  difficulties.  This  method  was 
suggested  to  Dr.  Spring  and  the  Donors,  also  to  Dr.  Morse 
and  the  others  connected  with  him,  and  met  with  a  very 
candid  consideration.  In  the  end  it  proved  entirely  satis- 
factory. This  plan  was  suggested  to  me  by  the  very 
nature  of  the  chief  difficulty  which  pressed  upon  us. 

The  Associate  Donors  were  satisfied  with  the  security 
which  the  Visitatorial  Scheme  would  afford  as  to  the  election 
of  the  Professors  on  their  foundation.  But  no  security  was 
provided  in  regard  to  the  election  of  the  Professor  of  Christian 
Theology.  The  plan  I  proposed  was  to  extend  the  control  of 
the  Visitors  over  the  election  of  Professors  on  both  Founda- 
tions. This  only  required  that  the  Andover  Founders  should 
agree  to  a  common  Board  of  Visitors,  not  that  they  should 
appoint  a  distinct  Board,  but  unite  with  the  Donors  in  one 
and  the  same  Board. 

This,  I  urged,  would  be  a  complete  union.  As  both 
branches  of  the  Institution  were  to  be  placed  in  the  hands 
of  the  same  Board  of  Trustees ;  and  as  all  the  Professors  were 
to  be  under  the  same  Constitution  and  to  agree  to  the  same 
doctrinal  standard,  if  now,  in  addition  to  all  this,  the  election 
of  all  the  Professors,  and  all  the  affairs  of  both  Foundations, 
should  be  put  under  the  supervision  of  the  same  Board  of 
Visitors,  there  would  be  union,  not  in  name  and  appearance 
only,  but  in  reality;  not  partial,  but  entire. 

At  first  the  Andover  party  thought  this  a  high  demand. 


118      HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY. 

They  were  satisfied  with  their  own  Boards  and  thought 
others  unnecessary  in  their  case,  but  the  more  the  plan  was 
considered,  the  more  fully  was  it  approved.  Both  parties 
saw  that  it  was  not  only  unobjectional,  but  that  it  removed 
all  difficulties,  and  met  satisfactorily  all  the  wishes  indulged 
on  both  sides.  The  chief  difficulty  had,  in  the  minds  of  the 
Donors,  respected  the  Professor  of  Theology.  To  satisfy  Mr. 
Norris  respecting  the  department  of  Christian  Theology,  the 
Associate  Donors  with  Dr.  Spring  adopted  the  singular  expe- 
dient of  doing  what  Mr.  Abbot  had  before  done ; — that  is,  of 
appointing  the  Professor  in  that  department  by  their  united 
vote. 

This  transaction,  though  in  itself  of  no  consequence,  had 
the  desired  effect  to  afford  relief  arid  comfort  to  a  man  of  a 
scrupulous  conscience,  but  of  great  excellence  of  character. 
This  is  mentioned  in  several  letters.  Dr.  Spring  could  now 
say  to  Mr.  Norris,  "The  Professor  of  Christian  Theology  is 
yours."1 

This  difficulty  being  taken  away,  neither  Dr.  Spring  nor 
the  Associates  felt  any  great  objection  to  the  Visitatorial 
scheme.  With  the  opinions  of  Gov.  Strong  and  Mr.  Bliss 
they  were  tolerably  satisfied,  and  the  Donors  were  not  likely 
to  be  disturbed  by  the  later  communications  of  the  learned 
Judges2  Daggett  and  Smith. 

Thus  the  reader  will  see  that  from  March  16,  1807,  to  Feb. 
1,  1808,  we  were  called  to  encounter  an  almost  continual 
train  of  difficulties  and  dangers.  It  was  a  most  happy  cir- 
cumstance that,  instead  of  being  thrown  in  our  way  at  once, 
they  were  dealt  out  to  us  gradually,  and  for  the  most  part 
one  by  one,  so  that  with  Divine  help,  we  were  able  success- 
ively to  overcome  them,  and  to  pursue  our  object  without 
too  great  discouragement.  It  deserves  to  be  mentioned  with 
gratitude  and  admiration,  that  the  occurrence  of  difficulties, 

1  See  in  Appendix,  letter  of  Dr.  Spring  to  Mr.  Norris,  Feb.  9,  1808.    Mr. 
Norris  to  Dr.  Church,  Feb.  26,  1808.     Letter  from  Dr.  Morse  to  Mr.  Farrar. 

2  See  in  Appendix,  letter  dated  Feb.  29,  1808. 


FOUNDING    THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY.  119 

disappointments  and  delays,  and  the  intermixture  of  jealousies 
and  fears,  though  frequently  very  embarrassing,  contributed 
from  time  to  time  to  a  manifest  improvement  in  the  plan  of 
the  Seminary ;  so  that  on  review  of  the  whole  course  of  things 
from  the  beginning,  we  are  constrained  to  say,  there  was  not 
a  single  difficulty  or  trial  more  than  was  for  our  good. 

I  have  already  mentioned  the  fact  that  Dr.  Spring  had 
received  the  legal  opinions  of  Judges  Daggett  and  Smith,  and 
the  depressing  effect  these  opinions  had  on  him.  These  were 
against  the  adoption  of  the  principle  of  Visitation  in  present 
circumstances.  But  the  main  objection  to  their  opinions 
would  be  removed  if  a  new  act  of  Legislature  could  be  ob- 
tained, investing  the  Board  of  Visitors  with  corporate  powers. 
It  was  admitted  on  all  sides  that  such  an  act  of  Legislature 
was  desirable. 

But  as  to  the  safety  of  the  Visitatorial  scheme  in  a  legal 
point  of  view,  it  was  urged,  that  the  act  of  the  Founders 
and  Trustees  in  agreeing  to  that  scheme  would  be  binding 
upon  them,  and  that  no  objection  would  be  expected  to  arise 
from  any  other  quarter.  The  intimation  of  the  Judges  that 
the  principle  of  Visitation  had  not  been  introduced  into  this 
country  was  certainly  incorrect.  The  Board  of  Overseers  in 
Harvard  College,  and  subsequently  in  Bowdoin  College,  was 
in  truth  a  Board  of  Visitors  and  exercised  real  Visitatorial 
powers.  They  were  indeed  authorized  to  exercise  these 
powers  by  an  Act  of  the  Legislature,  arid  the  Andover  party 
promised  to  unite  with  the  other  party  in  obtaining  such  an 
act  for  the  Board  of  Visitors  in  the  new  Seminary.1 

In  these  and  other  ways  the  effect  which  was  first  pro- 
duced by  the  legal  opinions  of  the  distinguished  jurists  was 
counteracted,  except  in  the  case  of  Mr.  Norris,  who  still  re- 
tained feelings  of  dissatisfaction. 

1  It  is  a  most  remarkable  fact  that,  although  a  supplementary  Act  of  the 
Legislature  incorporating  the  Theological  Seminary  on  the  original  charter 
of  Phillips  Academy  was  passed  June  2,  1807,  so  far  as  we  have  been  able 
to  discover,  the  act  incorporating  the  Board  of  Visitors  was  delayed  till 
1824.— EDITOB. 


120       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

When  the  plan  of  a  Joint  Board  of  Visitors  carne  to  be 
regarded  with  approbation  by  Dr.  Pearson  and  Dr.  Morse,  as 
well  as  by  the  other  party,  they  began  to  think  that  the  in- 
troduction of  such  a  Board  would  supersede  the  necessity  of 
a  seven  years'  experiment,  which  had  been  expressly  provided 
for  in  the  Articles  of  agreement  signed  at  Charlestown,  Dec. 
1st.  But  Dr.  Spring  and  the  Donors  were  attached  to  the 
plan  of  an  experiment  as  proper  in  itself;  and  as  an  important 
means  of  ultimate  safety. 

In  this  critical  posture  of  our  affairs,  my  own  opinion  was 
that  it  would  be  very  inexpedient,  and  would  again  expose 
our  great  object  to  the  danger  of  defeat,  to  make  any  objec- 
tion to  the  proposed  experiment,  and  I  expressed  this  appre- 
hension strongly  in  my  communication  to  Dr.  Morse. 

It  was  about  this  time,  as  near  as  I  can  remember,  that 
Dr.  Spring  called  the  attention  of  the  Associate  Donors  to  an- 
other fact.  "  If  you  go  to  Andover,"  he  said  to  them,  "  I 
wish  you  to  go  upon  equal  terms  with  the  Founders.  But 
Mr.  Abbot's  fund  will  be  large,  and  he,  and  those  connected 
with  him,  will  by  and  by  have  two  or  more  Professors,  while 
you  will  have  only  one,  and  that  not  the  Professor  of  Theol- 
ogy; and  so  your  part  of  the  Institution  will  fall  into  the 
background." 

To  satisfy  Dr.  Spring,  and  still  farther  to  promote  the  ob- 
ject of  a  Theological  Institution,  Mr.  Bartlett  expressed  his 
readiness  to  found  another  Professorship,  and  this  he  soon 
after  did. 

During  the  latter  part  of  Jan.,  1808,  the  business  in  hand 
called  for  frequent  consultation.  Dr.  Spring  went  to  Andover. 
and  Dr.  Pearson  to  Newburyport,  and  I  went  to  both  places, 
Not  far  from  that  time  Drs.  Spring  and  Pearson  together 
visited  Dr.  Morse  at  Charlestown.  The  Associate  Statutes, 
previously  prepared  by  Drs.  Spring  and  Pearson,  were  now 
to  be  remodelled  so  as  to  conform  to  the  new  plan  and  con- 
tain provisions  for  a  Joint  Board  of  Visitors. 

There  was  much  earnest  discussion  respecting  the  forma- 


FOUNDING    THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY.  121 

tion  of  the  Common  Board.  It  was  the  first  opinion  of 
Dr.  Spring,  that  the  permanent  Board  of  Visitors  should 
consist  of  the  same,  or  nearly  the  same,  number  as  the 
Board  of  Trustees.  He  could  refer  to  the  Overseers  of 
Harvard  and  Bowdoin  Colleges,  whose  Overseers  were  far 
more  numerous  than  the  Trustees.  But  Dr.  Pearson  was 
confident  that  a  Board  of  three  Visitors  would  be  more 
respected,  and  far  more  efficient  than  a  larger  number.  He 
appealed  to  the  powers  of  Visitation  in  England  which  were 
vested  in  a  single  man.  His  arguments  finally  prevailed, 
and  it  was  concluded  between  the  parties  that  the  perma- 
nent Board  should  be  three;  and  that  the  Founders  of  the 
Seminary,  and  the  Founders  of  Professorships,  should  re- 
serve to  themselves  the  right  of  being  Visitors  during 
their  natural  lives. 

Dr.  Spring  at  first  opposed  Dr.  Pearson's  proposition  that 
the  Board  of  Visitors  should  consist  of  two  clergymen  and 
one  layman,  deeming  it  best  not  to  make  the  rule  absolute, 
but  surrendered  his  own  wish  to  the  wishes  of  the  majority, 
and  the  agreement  was  that  there  should  be  two  clergymen 
and  one  layman. 

All  our  consultations  and  measures  at  this  meeting  were 
pervaded  by  the  spirit  of  mutual  candor  and  confidence,  and 
evidently  hastened  our  approach  to  the  long  wished-for 
consummation. 

The  appointment  or  choice  of  the  permanent  Visitors 
was  to  be  mutual,  that  is,  one  member  was  to  be  chosen 
by  the  Founders  of  the  Seminary,  and  one  by  the  Associate 
Donors,  while  the  third  was  to  be  agreed  upon  between 
them.  For  a  time  it  was  apprehended  that  there  would 
be  some  difficulty  in  choosing  such  a  Board  as  would  be 
agreeable  to  both  parties.  But  the  apprehension  was  found 
to  be  groundless.  The  Andover  Founders  readily  fixed  their 
choice  on  Governor  Strong,  the  three  Donors  named  Dr. 
Spring.  Mr.  Bartlett  was  particularly  attached  to  Dr. 
Thayer  of  Kingston,  arid  wished  him  to  be  the  other 


122       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

Visitor,  but  by  the  advice  of  Dr.  Spring  the  Donors  pro- 
posed a  man  whom  they  knew  would  be  agreeable  to  the 
Andover  Founders,  namely,  Dr.  Dwight. 

This  was  all  arranged  in  conversation  beforehand;  and 
in  conformity  with  this,  the  appointments  were  afterward 
exactly  so  made;  first  in  the  Statutes  of  the  Associate 
Foundation,  March  21,  1808,  and  then  in  the  Additional 
Statutes  of  the  Founders,  May  3,  1808.  As  Gov.  Strong 
declined  the  appointment  on  account  of  his  feeble  health, 
Hon.  Mr.  Bliss  was  subsequently  chosen  in  his  place. 

While  we  were  pursuing  measures  with  the  utmost  vigor 
to  hasten  the  accomplishment  of  the  union,  I  learned  from 
Dr.  Morse  that  unpleasant  remarks  were  made  by  Unitarians 
arid  others  respecting  my  theological  opinions,  and  as  I  was 
known  to  be  the  Professor-elect,  some  of  my  friends  intended 
to  take  special  pains  to  correct  the  current  misrepresentation, 
and  to  make  statements  which  would  satisfy  all  parties. 

After  consulting  with  friends,  I  came  to  the  conclusion 
that  the  remarks  and  rumors  referred  to  called  for  no  par- 
ticular attention, — that  any  efforts  of  my  friends  to  explain 
and  vindicate  my  opinions  would  at  this  time  be  out  of 
place,  and  might  be  misunderstood  and  perverted.  I  felt 
that  it  was  utterly  in  vain  to  attempt  to  satisfy  those  men 
in  Boston  who  aimed  to  stigmatize  Calvinism,  by  calling 
it  Hopkinsianism ;  and  who  looked  with  equal  dislike  upon 
one  and  the  other.  For  myself,  I  was  willing  to  be  judged 
by  what  I  had  preached  and  published,  and  by  my  future 
labors  in  the  Seminary.  These  views  1  communicated  freely, 
perhaps  too  freely,  to  Dr.  Morse.1 

On  the  evening  of  the  8th  of  Feb.,  1808,  the  Associate 
Statutes,  previously  prepared   by  the  united  labors  of  Drs. 
Spring  and  Pearson,  were  presented  by  Dr.  Spring  to  Messrs. 
Brown  and  Bartlett,  and  received  their  cordial  approbation 
It  was  their  desire  that  Dr.  Spring  should  immediately  visit 

i  See  in  Appendix,  letter  to  Dr.  Morse,  Feb.  14,  1808,  Mr.  Bartlett  to  Mr. 
Norris,  Feb.  9,  1807. 


FOUNDING    THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY.  123 

Mr.  Norris,  and  obtain  if  possible  his  consent  to  the  sajne. 
But  well  knowing  that  Mr.  Norris  was  still  full  of  doubts 
and  fears  in  regard  to  the  measures  recently  adopted,  he  was 
reluctant  to  repeat  his  visit,  and  preferred  in  the  first  place 
to  address  him  by  a  letter.  In  this  letter,  dated  Feb.  9th,  he 
used  various  arguments,  together  with  his  unequalled  per- 
sonal influence,  to  induce  Mr.  Norris  to  join  with  the  other 
Donors  in  establishing  the  united  Institution  on  the  princi- 
ples last  proposed.  But  knowing,  as  he  did,  the  feelings  of 
Mr.  Norris,  he  addressed  him  cautiously  and  tremblingly, 
though  with  great  earnestness. 

Mr.  Bartlett  also  wrote  an  affectionate  letter  to  Mr. 
Norris,  of  the  same  date,  and  with  the  same  object  in  view. 

The  proposed  visit  of  Dr.  Spring  to  Salem  was  by  cir- 
cumstances delayed  for  a  fortnight.  On  the  25th  of  Feb- 
ruary he  drove  to  that  place  with  his  mind  fully  awake  to 
the  importance  of  his  mission,  and  to  the  lamentable  con- 
sequences of  a  defeat.  He  was  aware  that  a  proposition 
had  been  made  to  the  other  Donors  to  proceed  in  the  busi- 
ness without  Mr.  Norris  in  case  his  objections  were  invincible, 
but  they  would  not  for  a  moment  consent  to  such  a  plan, 
estimating  Mr.  Norris  as  one  acting  from  conscientious, 
though  mistaken,  motives.  While,  therefore,  he  determined 
to  pursue  his  object  with  unyielding  resolution,  and  with 
some  hope  of  success,  it  was  not  without  many  painful 
apprehensions. 

He  presented  Mr.  Norris  a  fair  copy  of  the  Associate 
Statutes  as  approved  by  Messrs.  Brown  and  Bartlett,  and 
used  arguments  arid  persuasions  to  get  him  to  sign  it.  He 
appealed  to  reason,  to  conscience,  to  friendship  and  to  piety, 
and  he  did  it  with  a  warm  and  tender  heart. 

But  his  efforts  were  unsuccessful,  and  he  began  to  be 
distressed  with  the  thought  that  his  dear  friend  could  not 
be  gained,  and  that  the  other  Donors  would  be  compelled 
to  proceed  without  him.  As  his  last  resort,  his  feelings 
impelled  him  to  propose  that  they  should  unite  in  prayer. 


124       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

In  his  distress  he  called  upon  the  Lord.  He  prayed  and 
wept.  Mr.  Norris  wept  with  him.  His  heart  was  melted. 
He  could  resist  no  longer.  He  held  out  his  hand  for  the 
paper,  and  with  a  countenance  which  reflected  the  deep 
emotions  of  his  soul,  signed  it. 

It  is  not  easy  to  describe  the  joy  with  which  Dr.  Spring 
took  the  precious  document,  nor  the  joy  which  filled  many 
hearts  when  the  result  of  this  visit  was  known.  Dr.  Pear- 
son did  but  express  the  warmth  of  our  common  sensations, 
when  he  wrote  thus  exultingly  to  Dr.  Morse:1 

"This  is  the  Lord's  doing  and  it  is  wondrous  in  our 
eyes."  "Bless  the  Lord,  0  my  soul."  "Bless  ye  Him  all 
His  saints."  "Not  unto  us,  not  unto  us,  but  unto  Thy  Name, 
0  most  Mighty,  be  all  the  praise." 

The  day  after  Mr.  Norris  gave  his  signature  to  the 
Statutes,  he  poured  out  the  fulness  of  his  heart  to  Dr. 
Church,  who  soon  after  wrote  him  in  reply. 

How  quiet  and  happy  were  the  closing  days  of  February 
and  the  first -days  of  March!  The  difficulties  and  fears 
which  so  lately  distressed  us  had  been  overcome.  We  had 
as  we  thought  passed  over  Jordan  the  second  time*  and 
had  actually  reached  the  promised  land. 

The  rejoicing  which  followed  Dr.  Spring's  successful  visit 
to  Salem  was  again  checked.  It  was  ordered  by  the  unerring 
wisdom  of  God  that  our  faith  should  be  tried  still  farther; 
and  that  new  troubles  should  come  upon  us  from  a  quarter 
where  we  supposed  no  trouble  could  originate. 

The  Associate  Statutes,  which  had  been  so  carefully  pre- 
pared by  Dr.  Spring  and  Dr.  Pearson,  and  so  recently  ap- 
proved by  the  Donors,  contained,  as  we  thought,  such 
provisions  relative  to  every  subject  as  would  occasion  no 
difficulty  and  would  require  no  alteration. 

But  Dr.  Spring  began  soon  to  agitate  the  question 
whether  there  should  not  be  an  alteration  in  the  Statute 
which  appointed  the  permanent  Board  of  Visitors.  He 
1  See  in  Appendix,  Dr.  Pearson's  letter  to  Dr.  Morse,  Feb.  29,  1808. 


FOUNDING    THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY.  125 

first  revealed  his  dissatisfaction  to  Mr.  Norris.1  He  went 
to  Andover,  and  endeavored  to  obtain  the  consent  of  Dr. 
Pearson  and  Mr.  Farrar  to  the  alteration  he  proposed.  He 
thought  it  ought  not  to  be  absolutely  determined,  as  it 
was  in  the  Statutes,  that  one  of  the  three  permanent  Visitors 
should  be  a  layman,  but  that  it  should  be  left  to  the  discre- 
tion of  the  electors,  to  choose  either, — "to  choose  a  Davies 
from  the  ministry,  or  a  Thornton  from  the  laity,  as  they 
might  think  best." 

Dr.  Pearson  made  vigorous  opposition  to  Dr.  Spring's 
proposal.  It  was  for  a  time  the  subject  of  warm  debate; 
but  the  parties  finally  agreed  that  the  Statutes  relative 
to  that  matter  should  remain  as  they  were. 

But  there  was  another  question,  not  so  easily  answered, 
and  which,  even  at  that  late  period,  occasioned  a  most 
unpleasant  and  ominous  excitement. 

It  had  been  the  general  understanding,  that  the  Founders 
of  the  Seminary,  and  the  Donors  who  were  Founders  of 
Professorships  in  the  Seminary,  should  reserve  to  them- 
selves the  right  of  being  Visitors  during  their  natural  life. 
But  such  reserved  right  could  relate  only  to  their  own 
Foundations  respectively.  In  order,  therefore,  to  make  the 
Board  of  Visitors  a  common  and  united  Board  throughout, 
it  was  necessary  that  the  Andover  Founders  should  confer 
on  the  Associate  Donors,  the  right  to  be  Visitors  of  the 
Andover  Foundation.  This  appeared  fair  and  equal.  But 
when  Dr.  Spring  and  the  Donors  took  the  thing  in  hand, 
they  at  once  met  with  a  serious  embarrassment.  Madam 
Phillips  would,  of  course,  refuse  to  be  named  as  a  Visitor, 
but  the  gentlemen  at  Andover  had  no  doubt  that  Hon. 
John  Phillips  would  be  considered  and  treated  as  «,  Founder. 
But  to  this  Mr.  Bartlett  objected,  and  the  other  Donors 
with  Dr.  Spring  coincided  in  opinion  with  him.  They  all 
felt  it  to  be  a  privilege  to  be  associated  with  Mr.  Abbot 
in  the  Board  of  Visitors,  but  beyond  this  they  were  not 

1  See  in  Appendix,  letter  from  Dr.  Spring  to  Mr.  Norris,  dated  March  7, 1808. 


126       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

willing  to  go,  urging  that  Hon.  John  Phillips  was  a  Founder 
in  only  a  very  subordinate  sense,  and  beside  this,  he  be 
longed  to  the  Board  of  Trustees.  It  was  then  proposed 
that  Madam  Phillips  and  her  son  should  appoint  a  man  to 
be  a  Visitor  in  their  stead.  But  this  was  also  objected  to. 

The  feelings  of  some  on  both  sides  became  somewhat 
chafed  by  the  occurrence  of  so  many  adverse  circumstances. 
Mr.  Bartlett  showed  signs  of  impatience  and  said : 

"  I  would  rather  double  my  donations  and  go  on  sepa- 
rately than  to  have  any  more  difficulty  and  delay." 

Dr.  Spring  gave  it  as  his  opinion,  that,  as  the  Associate 
Donors  had  done  so  much,  and  intended  greatly  to  increase 
their  contributions,  they  were  entitled  to  a  decided  prepon- 
derance in  the  Board  of  Visitors.  The  question  under  dis- 
cussion was  rendered  more  embarrassing  because  it  had 
a  personal  bearing.  The  contention  was  sharp  and  threat- 
ened fearful  consequences.  At  length  the  Andover  party 
yielded  up  what  seemed  to  be  their  just  right,  and  Mr. 
Phillips,  considering  all  the  circumstances  of  the  case,  de- 
termined to  put  an  end  to  the  strife,  and  help  forward  the 
union,  by  declining  to  be  a  Visitor.1 

And  now,  with  the  full  persuasion  that  everything  would 
be  amicably  adjusted,  Messrs.  Brown,  Bartlett  and  Norris 
met  at  Newburyport,  March  21st,  1808,  and  gave  their  signa- 
tures and  seals  to  the  Associate  Statutes,  in  the  presence  of 
Drs.  Spring  and  Morse.  In  these  Statutes  as  they  were  exe- 
cuted at  this  time  a  blank  was  left  for  the  names  of  the  seven 
Visitors  who  had  been  previously  talked  of,  and  who  were 
afterward  agreed  upon,  and  their  names  inserted  in  due  form 
as  they  now  appear  in  "  The  Statutes  of  the  Associate 
Donors";  ^nd  in  the  "Addit'onal  Statutes  of  the  Founders 
of  the  Seminary." 2 

On  the  28th  of  March,   1808,  Dr.  Morse  sent  a  copy  of 

1  See  in  Appendix,  letter  to  Dr.  Morse,  March  28,  and  30,  1808,  and  Dr. 
Pearson's  letter  to  Dr.  Morse,  April  10,  1808. 

8  See  account  of  Associate  Statutes  and  Additional  Statutes  in  Part  IL 


FOUNDING    THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY.  127 

these  Statutes  to  Mr.  Farrar,  that  he,  and  the  other  gentle- 
men in  Andover,  might  have  seasonable  opportunity  to  see 
them  as  finished  and  executed. 

In  the  month  of  April,  it  became  a  favorite  object  with 
me  that  the  three  Donors,  and  Mr.  Abbot,  should  have  a 
meeting  for  free  conversation.1  They  had  long  been  en- 
gaged together  in  most  important  transactions,  but  it  was 
through  the  agency  of  others.  It  seemed  high  time  that 
there  should  be  a  personal  acquaintance,  and  that  they  should 
be  bound  together  by  personal  friendship. 

Such  a  meeting  of  the  four  benefactors  took  place  at  the 
house  of  Mr.  Abbot  in  Andover,  April  21,  1808,  and  gave 
a  high  degree  of  satisfaction  to  each  one  of  them.  This  in- 
terview was  followed  by  cordial  and  uninterrupted  friend- 
ship, mutual  confidence,  and  harmonious  action. 

As  the  time  drew  near  when  the  Trustees  would  be 
called  to  act  on  the  weighty  subjects  placed  before  them, 
a  painful  solicitude  was  felt  by  not  a  few,  lest  insurmount- 
able difficulties  should  arise  to  disappoint  our  hopes  in  the 
last  stage  of  the  business.  It  was  a  very  grave  question, 
whether  such  a  body  of  men  as  the  Trustees  of  Phillips 
Academy,  invested  with  such  important  powers,  and  accus- 
tomed to  act  so  independently,  would  be  willing  to  submit 
to  the  supervision  and  control  of  another  Board.  It  was 
also  a  question  whether  the  Trustees,  some  of  whom  were 
Unitarians,  and  others  very  moderate  Calvinists,  would 
readily  admit  into  the  Academy  a  Theological  Institution 
which  so  obviously  maintained  the  principles  of  the  most 
thorough  and  unflinching  Calvinism,  and  which  brought 
with  it  as  one  of  its  elements,  the  active  co-operation  of 
Hopkinsians. 

Even  some  who  were  members  of  the  Board  of  Trustees 
had  doubts  as  to  the  issue  of  the  approaching  meeting.  The 

1  See  in  Appendix,  letter  of  Dr.  Spring  to  Mr.  Norris,  Feb.  9,  1808,  and 
Mr.  Norris  to  Dr.  Church,  Feb.  26,  1808,  and  letter  from  Dr.  Morse  to  Mr. 
Farrar. 


128       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY. 

subject  was  very  freely  talked  of  among  those  who  under- 
stood its  bearings,  and  everything  possible  was  seasonably 
done  to  guard  against  the  dreaded  danger  of  defeat.  The 
Creed  prepared  for  the  West  Newbury  School  had  been 
copied  verbatim,  and  was  made  common  and  permanent  by 
adding  it  to  the  Shorter  Catechism. 

The  Founders  in  Andover,  with  the  Statutes  of  the  Asso- 
ciate Foundation  before  them,  and  with  the  expectation  that 
they  would  be  accepted  by  the  Trustees,  executed  their  Ad- 
ditional Statutes  May  3d,  1808.1 

At  a  meeting  of  the  Trustees,  on  the  following  day,  May 
4th,  1808,  the  Statutes  of  the  Associate  Donors,  and  the 
Additional  Statutes  of  the  Founders  of  the  Seminary  were 
communicated  to  the  Board.  Some  of  them,  as  had  been 
previously  expected,  were  disinclined  to  take  charge  of  an 
Institution  founded  on  such  principles,  and  placed  under 
the  efficient  supervision  of  another  Board,  and  there  was 
much  earnest  debate  on  the  subject.  But  at  an  adjourned 
meeting,  May  10th,  the  Trustees  accepted  the  Additional 
Statutes  of  the  Founders  of  the  Seminary,  which  were  to  con- 
tinue in  full  force  as  a  part  of  their  Constitution,  so  long  as 
the  Associate  Foundation  should  continue  attached  to  the 
Institution.  At  the  same  meeting  they  accepted  the  Asso- 
ciate Statutes,  together  with  the  Associate  Funds,  and  they 
engaged  faithfully  to  execute  the  trust  reposed  in  them, 
according  to  the  Constitution  and  Statutes. 

It  has  already  been  mentioned  that  in  October,  1807,  Mr. 
Abbot  appointed  mq  Professor  on  his  Foundation.  On  the 
27th  of  April,  1808,  I  sent  the  following  communication: — 

"  To  THE  TRUSTEES  OF  PHILLIPS  ACADEMY. 

"  Gentlemen, — In  the  month  of  October  last,  I  received 
from  you,  by  the  hands  of  Samuel  Farrar,  Esq.,  a  communi- 
cation containing  the  information  that  Samuel  Abbot,  Esq., 

'  See  in  Appendix,   letters  to  Dr.  Morse,  April  16  and  23,  and  to  Dr. 
Church,  April  28. 


FOUNDING    THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY.  129 

had  appointed  me  the  Professor  of  Christian  Theology  in  the 
Theological  Institution  lately  formed  in  Andover. 

"  This  appointment  has  been  the  subject  of  long  and  se- 
rious consideration.  My  reflections  have  been  much  em- 
barrassed by  a  consciousness  that  I  am  deficient  in  the 
requisite  qualifications  for  such  a  responsible  and  sacred 
office;  and  by  a  tender  attachment  to  my  pastoral  charge. 
But  a  full  persuasion  that  the  wisdom  and  benevolence  of 
God  have  directed  in  the  establishment  of  this  Institution,  an 
unwavering  belief  in  those  evangelical  principles  upon  which 
it  is  founded;  an  earnest  desire  to  promote  its  great  and  good 
design,  together  with  a  humble  conviction  of  duty,  induce 
me,  though  with  a  trembling  heart,  to  accept  the  appoint- 
ment and  the  conditions  annexed.  As  this  acceptance  has 
such  an  interesting  connection  with  the  glory  of  God,  and 
the  welfare  of  the  churches,  I  cannot  but  be  affected  with 
it  as  one  of  the  most  solemn  and  momentous  actions  of  my 
life.  I  rely,  Gentlemen,  on  your  candor,  friendship  and 
prayers,  and  above  all,  on  the  grace  of  Christ.  Although  I 
have  not  risen  to  the  attainments  which  a  Professor  of 
Theology  in  such  an  Institution  ought  to  possess,  I  hope  I 
shall  be  enabled,  in  some  measure,  to  supply  my  present 
deficiencies  by  future  diligence.  And  though  I  cannot 
promise  that  I  shall  answer  the  expectations  of  my  friends, 
yet,  depending  on  Divine  assistance,  I  am  not  backward  to 
promise  that  my  earnest  and  persevering  endeavors  to  fulfil 
the  duties  of  my  office  shall  not  be  wanting. 

"  Sensible  that  my  usefulness,  and  the  success  of  the 
Institution,  depend  ultimately  on  the  good  pleasure  of  God, 
I  would  devoutly  ask,  for  you,  Gentlemen,  for  myself,  and 
for  all  concerned  in  the  Institution,  the  constant  aids  of 
His  Holy  Spirit.  May  He  graciously  afford  His  presence 
and  blessing  to  the  Seminary,  and  render  it  extensively 
useful  to  the  Church,  and  the  world. 

"  LEONARD   WOODS. 

"Newbury,  April  27, 1808." 


130       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

In  the  month  of  June  I  resigned  the  ministerial  office, 
which  I  had  held  ten  happy  years  at  West  Newbury,  and  by 
request  of  the  Trustees,  removed  to  Andover,  to  the  house 
once  occupied  by  Judge  Phillips.  Here  I  delivered  my 
first  course  of  Theological  lectures:  but  of  that  hereafter. 
It  was  the  wish  of  the  Trustees  that  I  should  be  on  the 
spot  to  be  in  readiness  for  the  opening  of  the  Seminary, 
which  was  to  take  place  on  the  28th  day  of  the  following 
September. 

The  interval  between  the  meeting  of  the  Trustees, 
May  10th,  and  the  opening  of  the  Institution,  was  filled  up 
with  various  transactions  and  arrangements.  There  was 
an  important  meeting  of  the  Visitors.1  Money  was  raised'  to 
the  amount  of  $2500  to  purchase  books  for  the  Seminary, 
and  much  of  my  time  was  occupied  in  this  business.  Mr. 
Bartlett  fixed  upon  Dr.  Griffin  of  Newark,  New  Jersey,  as 
Professor  of  Sacred  Rhetoric  on  his  Foundation.  Dr.  Griffin 
was  also  invited  to  Park  Street  Church,  to  be  their  minister, 
and  as  he  was  not  inclined  to  accept  either  invitation  alone, 
but  was  willing  to  consider  the  question  whether  it  was  his 
duty  to  accept  of  both,  there  was  much  correspondence  on 
the  subject.2 

The  Visitors  first  appointed  by  the  Founders  were  Dr. 
Spring,  Dr.  Dwight,  and  Gov.  Strong.  But  Gov.  Strong,  who 
expressed  entire  approbation  of  the  Creed,  and  of  all  the 
provisions  of  the  Constitution  and  Statutes  of  the  Founders, 
declined  the  appointment  on  account  of  his  feeble  health, 
and  his  distance  from  Andover.  The  Hon.  George  Bliss  of 
Springfield  was  afterwards  appointed  in  his  place. 

All  necessary  arrangements  having  been  seasonably 
made,  the  day  which  had  been  designated  for  the  public 
organization  of  the  Seminary  arrived.  It  was  an  auspicious 

'  See  in  Appendix,  their  vote,  May  10,  1808,  and  Dr.  Pearson's  letter, 
May  13th. 

2  See  in  Appendix,  letter  of  Dr.  Spring  to  Dr.  Morse,  June  10,  1808,  Dr. 
Morse  to  Dr.  Dwight,  Jiily  7,  1808,  and  Dr.  Griffin  to  Dr.  Morse,  July  28, 
1808. 


FOUNDING    THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY.  131 

day,  a  day  of  rejoicing  and  hope,— a  day,  involving  in  no 
small  measure  the  most  precious  interests  of  the  church  and 
the  world.  This  was  the  first  Divinity  School  founded  in 
America,  and  the  large  assembly  of  Christian  ministers  from 
different  and  distant  places,  and  of  other  friends  of  the  Semi- 
nary, indicated  the  interest,  and  the  profound  sense  of  the 
importance  of  this  occasion. 

The  public  services  were  conducted  in  the  Parish  Church 
with  consummate  order  and  propriety,  while  earnest  at- 
tention, deep  silence,  and  solemn  feeling  prevailed  in  the 
Sanctuary. 

As  Dr.  Pearson  was  a  layman,  the  Statutes  of  the 
Founders  required  that  he  should  receive  ordination.  The 
prayers  on  the  occasion  were  appropriate  and  fervent. 
The  sermon  was  preached  by  Dr.  Dwight.  The  Rev. 
Jonathan  French  gave  to  Dr.  Pearson  the  customary  charge, 
and  Dr.  Morse  gave  the  right  hand  of  fellowship.  Dr.  Pearson, 
President  of  the  Board  of  Trustees,  then  gave  an  historical 
sketch  of  the  events  which  contributed  to  the  establish- 
ment of  the  Institution,  and  read  such  portions  of  the  Con- 
stitution and  Statutes,  as  the  occasion  called  for.  After  this 
he  was  inducted  into  office  as  Professor  of  Natural  Theol- 
ogy, and  the  Rev.  Leonard  Woods  as  Professor  of  Christian 
Theology,  and  the  Seminary  was  declared  to  be  open  for 
the  admission  of  Theological  Students. 

After  the  close  of  the  public  solemnities,  the  Founders 
of  the  United  Institution,  and  their  principal  advisers  and 
agents,  were  all  together,  and  how  cordial  were  their  mutual 
congratulations!  They  felt  it  to  be  the  happiest  hour  of 
their  lives.  What  joy  brightened  their  countenances,  and 
how  deep  and  unutterable  their  emotions  of  gratitude  to 
God,  as  their  excited  minds  glanced  over  the  crowded 
transactions  and  events  of  the  two  preceding  years.  Num- 
erous difficulties  had  met  us,  and  some  of  them  had  seemed 
insurmountable.  Sometimes  the  light  of  the  sun  had  cheered 


132       HISTORY  OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

us,  followed,  almost  immediately,  by  dense  clouds.  Sometimes 
our  path  had  been  smooth  and  pleasant;  and  then  our  feet 
suddenly  sunk  in  the  mire.  If  a  season  of  encouragement 
came,  it  was  but  the  forerunner  of  some  painful  disaster.  If 
our  minds  were  at  any  time  elated  with  success,  they  were 
soon  cast  down  and  disquieted.  But  now  at  the  opening 
of  our  Divinity  School  no  clouds  were  to  be  seen.  Our 
fears  and  struggles  were  ended.  Difficulties  apparently  in- 
surmountable had  been  overcome.  Groundless  prejudices 
had  been  done  away.  Unessential  differences  of  opinion 
had  been  waived,  and  feelings  of  coldness  and  reserve  had 
given  place  to  mutual  confidence  and  affection.  How  ef- 
fectually had  we  escaped  the  evils  that  would  have  re- 
sulted from  two  separate  Divinity  Schools  in  the  same 
vicinity,  tending  as  they  doubtless  would  have  done  to 
foster  party  spirit  and  strife  among  ministers  and  churches. 
By  patience  and  hope,  and  the  labors  of  love, — by  Christian 
firmness,  condescension  and  gentleness, — by  unyielding  reso- 
lution,— by  faith  and  prayer — nay,  rather  by  the  help  of 
Him  "  of  whom,  and  through  whom,  and  to  whom,  are  all 
things," — we  had  been  delivered  from  all  our  dangers,  and 
were  now  brought  to  see  our  best  desires  fulfilled,  and  our 
highest  hopes  outdone ! 

What  now  remained  for  us  but  to  bless  the  good  hand 
of  God  which  had  been  upon  us, — to  bless  that  Divine  wis- 
dom which  had  guided  our  steps,  and  that  sovereign  Provi- 
dence which  had  restrained  our  wanderings,  overruled  our 
imperfections  and  mistakes  for  the  furtherance  of  His  cause, 
— to  bless  and  praise  the  name  of  God,  who  had  entrusted 
this  great  work,  His  own  work,  to  such  feeble  instruments, 
such  "  earthen  vessels,"  so  that  the  excellency  of  the  power, 
and  the  glory  of  success  might  be  forever  known  to  be  of 
God  and  not  of  man 


CHAPTER    VIII. 

OPENING    OF    THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

THE  twenty-eighth  day  of  September  in  the  year  of 
our  Lord  eighteen  hundred  and  eight  was,  as  we  have 
seen,  a  day  of  profound  interest.  No  less  so  was  the 
day  following.  An  Institution  which  had  been  founded 
by  the  benevolence  of  the  rich,  and  had  called  forth 
the  best  efforts,  wishes  and  prayers  of  the  pious,  com- 
menced its  operations.  The  -work  on  which  we  then  en- 
tered was  in  itself  of  vast  magnitude,  and  it  was  a  new 
work.  No  Seminary  like  this  had  been  known  to  exist 
either  in  this  or  any  other  country.  This  was  a  circum- 
stance which  occasioned  much  thoughtfulness  in  the  minds 
of  good  men;  and  many  feelings  not  only  of  hope,  but  of 
anxiety  and  fear.  We  were  all  sensible  that  the  under- 
taking was  inexpressibly  arduous,  and  that  no  finite  mind 
could  foresee  the  consequences,  for  good  or  for  evil,  which 
would  result  from  it. 

It  was  truly  a  merciful  ordering  of  God,  that  we  could 
form  but  a  dim  conception  of  what  the  Seminary  was  to 
be;  and  what  labors  and  trials  were  to  fall  to  our  lot. 

But  before  we  proceed  farther  we  must  consider  the 
manner  in  which  the  united  Seminary  was  regarded,  and 
the  influence  it  had  in  promoting  harmony  among  the 
Orthodox. 

The  United  Institution  thus  established  was  regarded 
very  differently  by  different  classes  of  men.  The  Unita- 


134      HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

rians  thought  the  New  School  stamped  with  bigotry  and 
narrowness.  In  " The  Anthology,"  which  was  their  chief  organ, 
they  cried  out  against  the  doctrinal  standards  of  the  An- 
dover  School,  especially  the  two  parts  which  constituted  it; 
namely,  the  Catechism  arid  Associate  Creed,  as  incompat- 
ible with  each  other.  They  called  the  Creed  a  Hopkinsian 
Creed,  and  insinuated  that  the  Hopkinsian  party  had  over- 
reached the  Calvinistic  party  and  obtained  terms  altogether 
in  their  own  favor. 

Many  Presbyterian  Calvinists,  of  the  Old  School,  who 
were  satisfied  with  the  Assembly's  Shorter  Catechism, 
thought  the  Associate  Creed  had  too  much  of  a  Hopkin- 
sian aspect;  and  apprehended  that  the  Institution,  under 
the  existing  government  and  instruction,  would  be  too 
favorable  to  the  Hopkinsian  sect.  They  would,  they  said, 
have  been  better  satisfied  if  the  Calvinists  had  kept  them- 
selves separate  from  the  Hopkinsians. 

Dr.  Emmons,  and  a  few  others  associated  with  him,  were 
dissatisfied  with  the  union.  They  alleged  that  the  Associate 
Creed,  though  correct  as  far  as  it  went,  omitted  the  princi- 
ples that  distinguished  Hopkinsians  from  Calvinists;  and  they 
apprehended  that  Hopkinsians,  thus  amalgamated  with  those 
whom  they  looked  upon  as  Moderate  Calvinists,  would  lose 
their  distinctive  character,  so  that  the  Hopkinsian  party 
would  after  a  time  be  extinct.  They  were  fond  of  influence 
and  wanted  a  name  of  their  own  which  should  be  known 
and  read  of  all  men. 

A  few  ministers  who  were  reckoned  among  the  Orthodox, 
disliked  the  plan  of  the  Seminary  and  the  strict  Calvinism 
to  be  taught  in  it.  They  thought  that  the  ministers  trained 
up  under  such  instruction  would  be  too  high-toned  and 
exclusive. 

But  the  great  body  of  the  Orthodox  in  New  England, 
and  many  in  other  States,  including  all  real  Calvinists,  and 
almost  all  Hopkinsians,  were  pleased  with  the  United  In- 
stitution. Calvinists  saw  that  the  doctrines  of  the  Asso- 


OPENING   OF    THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY.          135 

ciate  Creed  were  thoroughly  Calvinistic,  and  were  entirely 
consistent  with  the  Catechism.  Hopkinsians  in  general 
were  satisfied,  because  they  were  strict  Calvinists  and 
cordially  embraced  the  doctrines  of  the  Catechism  and  Creed. 
They  were  generally  willing  to  waive  those  speculations 
in  which  they  had  gone  beyond  the  principles  of  Calvinism. 
Thus  we  were  from  the  first  encouraged  to  hope  that  our 
new  Seminary,  or  Divinity  School,  as  it  was  at  first  called, 
would  tend  greatly  to  harmonize  these  conflicting  elements, 
and  bring  forth  the  fruits  of  peace  and  love,  among  all  true 
Christians. 

But  to  return  to  my  narrative.  Had  I  known  that  with 
the  very  inadequate  qualifications  which  I  possessed,  it 
would  be  my  duty  to  teach  Christian  Theology  to  so 
large  a  number  of  ministers,  many  of  whom  were  to  go 
as  missionaries  to  foreign  lands,  and  to  destitute  parts 
of  our  own  country;  had  I  known  that  so  many  were  here 
to  be  educated,  who  should  fill  the  highest  offices  in  vari- 
ous literary  and  theological  institutions,  and  in  various  be- 
nevolent societies;  and  had  I  known  what  a  multitude  of 
Seminaries,  similar  to  this,  were  to  follow  from  what  was 
then  done  on  this  consecrated  hill; — had  I  foreseen  all, 
or  any  considerable  part,  of  what  was  to  take  place  before 
the  end  of  half  a  century,  as  a  consequence  of  the  Institution 
then  going  into  operation ;  my  mind  would  have  staggered 
under  the  prospect;  and  unless  sustained  by  power  from 
above  would  have  shrunk  back  from  an  office  of  so  tre- 
mendous a  responsibility. 

But  the  work  before  us,  though  exceedingly  arduous, 
had  much  to  attract  and  encourage  us.  Past  difficulties  had 
been  overcome.  All  our  preliminary  solicitudes  and  efforts 
had  come  to  a  successful  issue ;  and  God  had  given  us  many 
tokens  of  His  presence  and  favor.  The  Founders  were  united 
and  happy,  and  their  hearts  were  ready  for  new  acts  of  benev- 
olence. The  Trustees  and  Visitors  were  our  friends,  coun- 
llors  and  helpers.  And  the  great  body  of  evangelical  min- 


136       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

isters  and  Christians,  having  been  fully  informed  of  the  plan 
of  the  Seminary,  had  given  it  their  approbation  and  confi- 
dence. The  promises  of  God  were  very  precious;  and  we 
could  hear  nothing  but  the  cheering  voice  of  His  providence, 
saying,  Go  forward. 

Several  young  men  were  present,  waiting  to  be  admitted 
as  theological  students.  The  Professors,  with  Dr.  Spring, 
proceeded  to  examine  them  according  to  the  Statutes  of  the 
Founders.  The  students  admitted  were  expected  to  be  grad- 
uates of  colleges,  or,  if  not  graduates,  to  possess  qualifications, 
particularly  in  regard  to  classical  knowledge,  substantially 
equal  to  what  were  generally  found  in  graduates.  All  appli- 
cants were  examined  in  Latin  and  Greek,  and  those  who 
had  not  been  educated  at  a  college,  were  examined  also  on 
the  sciences.  They  were  all  expected  to  present  certificates 
testifying  to  their  moral  and  religious  character,  and  besides 
this  the  Professors  conversed  freely  with  them  in  regard  to  the 
evidence  of  their  personal  piety.  Nineteen  were  soon  received, 
among  whom  were  those  who  have  been  well  known  to  the 
world,  as  the  first  foreign  missionaries  from  America,  and  others 
who  have  been  ministers  of  distinguished  usefulness  in  our 
own  country.  Adoniram  Judson,  a  young  man  of  excellent 
talents  and  scholarship,  was  one  of  the  first  applicants.  But 
he  could  not  be  admitted  as  a  member  of  the  Seminary,  be- 
cause of  his  manifest  want  of  piety.  In  a  public  address 
during  his  visit  to  America  from  India,  he  referred  in  my 
hearing  to  the  time  when  he  applied  to  me  for  examination 
and  with  tender  emotion  said,  "I  was  then  a  wretched  in- 
fidel." He  was,  indeed,  unsettled  in  his  opinions,  and  tending 
to  a  habit  of  skepticism,  but  he  still  retained  the  impressions 
of  an  early  religious  education,  arid  wished  for  a  better  state 
of  mind;  and  he  was  particularly  desirous,  he  hardly  knew 
why,  of  enjoying  the  privileges  of  this  Seminary.  We  gave 
him  permission  to  pursue  his  studies  here  for  a  limited  time. 
During  that  time  he  became  the  subject  of  deep  convictions 
of  sin,  and  at  length  gave  evidence  of  a  renewed  he.se 


OPENING   OF   THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY.         137 

after  which  he  was  admitted  as  a  regular  member  of  the 
Institution. 

The  case  of  Samuel  Newell  also  deserves  particular  notice. 
He  was  sober-minded,  and  in  the  opinion  of  his  Christian 
friends,  was  pious.  But  his  mind  was  confused  respecting 
the  truths  of  the  gospel,  and  he  seriously  doubted  whether 
he  had  experienced  the  saving  work  of  the  Spirit.  After  a 
while  his  health  failed;  and  during  his  sickness  I  found  him 
very  solicitous  in  regard  to  his  own  spiritual  interests.  At 
length,  without  having  any  confidence  in  his  own  good  estate, 
he  began  to  manifest  an  ardent  love  for  the  souls  of  the 
heathen,  and  an  earnest  desire  for  their  salvation.  And  not 
long  after,  in  connection  with  others,  he  determined,  if  such 
should  be  the  will  of  God,  to  devote  his  life  to  the  work  of  a 
foreign  missionary. 

I  mention  these  things  merely  as  instances  of  the  opera- 
tions of  Divine  grace  during  the  first  period  of  the  Institution. 

The  number  of  students  admitted  soon  after  the  opening 
of  the  Seminary,  and  in  all  the  subsequent  years,  far  ex- 
ceeded our  anticipations.  Before  the  Seminary  was  organized, 
Dr.  Spring  expressed  the  hope  that  we  should,  in  due  time, 
have  twelve  or  fifteen  students  in  the  Seminary  at  once. 
But  before  his  death,  which  took  place  in  1819,  he  had  the 
pleasure  to  see  more  than  forty  students  admitted  in  a  single 
class,  and  more  than  one  hundred  pursuing  their  studies 
together. 

During  the  first  thirty-eight  years  more  than  fifteen  hun- 
dred students  were  admitted;  but  somewhat  less  than  two- 
thirds  of  them  finished  the  regular  course  of  study.  The 
students  came  from  more  than  twenty  different  colleges. 

For  convenience'  sake,  I  here  give  the  following  tabular 
view  of  the  number  of  students  admitted  into  the  Junior 
Class,  from  year  to  year,  up  to  September,  1846 — it  being 
thirty-eight  years  from  the  opening  of  the  Seminary. 


138       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY. 


Year 

ending 

No.  ad- 

Year 

ending 

No.  ad- 

mitted 

mitted 

1 

Sept.  1809 

36 

20 

Sept.  1828 

52 

2 

1810 

31 

21 

1829 

44 

3 

1811 

19 

22 

1830 

62 

4 

1812 

19 

23 

1831 

48 

5 

1813 

19 

24 

1832 

42 

6 

1814 

21 

25 

1833 

80 

7 

1815 

22 

26 

1834 

54 

8 

1816 

26 

27 

1835 

32 

9 

1817 

25 

28 

1836 

81 

10 

1818 

41 

29 

1837 

62 

11 

1819 

43 

30 

1838 

38 

12 

1820 

39 

31 

1839 

50 

13 

1821 

36 

32 

1840 

50 

14 

1822 

45 

33 

1841 

43 

15 

1823 

55 

34 

1842 

50 

16 

1824 

50 

35 

1843 

30 

17 

1825 

55 

36 

1844 

30 

18 

1826 

54 

37 

1845 

26 

19 

1827 

50 

38 

1846 

25 

In  some  few  instances,  the  annual  Catalogue  of  the 
students  is  missing,  so  that  I  have  not  been  able  to  ascer- 
tain exactly  the  number  admitted.  But  it  has  been  my  aim 
not  to  exceed  the  truth. 

The  number  first  belonging  to  the  Junior  Class  was 
generally  diminished  during  the  year,  chiefly  in.  the  winter 
term,  sometimes  one  fourth  or  one  third,  and  sometimes  nearly 
one  half.  The  causes  of  this  diminution  were  various.  Some 
students  left  the  Seminary  for  want  of  health.  Some  died. 
Some  were  invited  to  teach  in  Academies  or  Colleges.  Some 
were  dismissed  to  other  Theological  Seminaries.  Some  were 
unable  to  proceed  in  their  studies  on  account  of  pecuniary 
embarrassments.  A  large  number  of  those  who  left  before 
going  through  the  time  prescribed  in  the  Statutes,  pursued 
their  studies  in  the  Seminary  through  a  considerable  part 
of  that  time. 

It  was  commonly  the  case  that  sevreal  students  were 
dismissed  from  the  upper  classes.  But  an  equal  and  some- 
times a  greater  number  were  added.  Hence,  the  variations 
in  the  numbers  of  those  classes,  were  for  the  most  part  far 
less  than  in  the  Junior  Class. 

In  many  cases  during  the  early  history  of  the  Seminary, 
it  was  difficult  to  satisfy  students  and  their  friends  of  the 


OPENING    OF    THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY.          139 

necessity  or  propriety  of  spending  three  years  in  preparatory 
studies.  Some  thought  that  as  they  had  devoted  their  life 
to  the  ministry  they  ought  without  delay  to  be  engaged  in 
the  work,  and  that  in  employing  three  years  in  theological 
study  they  would  be  taking  so  much  from  their  usefulness; 
not  considering,  that  with  higher  acquisitions  they  could 
accomplish  more  in  a  shorter  time;  and  that  the  amount 
of  their  usefulness  depended  far  less  upon  the  length  of 
their  ministry,  than  upon  their  intellectual  and  spiritual 
qualifications. 

But  a  desirable  change  was  by  degrees  wrought  in  the 
minds  of  young  men.  And  in  not  a  few  instances,  those 
who  entered  the  Seminary  with  a  feeling  that  one  or  at 
least  two  years'  study  would  be  sufficient,  gradually  enlarged 
their  views  of  the  importance  of  extensive  theological  learn- 
ing, so  that  at  the  end  of  two  years  they  determined  to 
continue  their  studies  another  year,  and  at  the  end  of  that 
third  year,  could  not  be  satisfied  without  adding  a  fourth 
and  sometimes  a  fifth  year.  And  who  ever  regretted  this 
as  a  waste  of  time,  or  regarded  it  in  any  other  light  than  as 
a  means  of  their  increased  usefulness,  whether  as  ministers 
of  Christ  in  our  own  country,  or  as  missionaries  to  other 
lands  ? 

The  principal  benefactors  of  the  Seminary  were  only  six, 
four  men  and  two  women.  These  men  acquired  the  wealth 
they  possessed,  through  the  blessing  of  God  upon  their 
honest  and  persevering  industry  and  economy. 

Mr.  Abbot  at  first  appropriated  twenty  thousand  dollars 
to  found  a  Professorship,  and  Madam  Phillips  and  her 
son  engaged  to  provide  the  necessary  buildings.  Mr.  Abbott 
also  left  a  bequest,  amounting  to  a  hundred  thousand  dollars. 
Mr.  Brown  first  gave  ten  thousand  dollars  and  soon  after 
one  thousand  for  the  Library;  and  in  1819  made  a  donation 
of  ttventy-five  thousand  dollars  to  found  a  Professorship.  Mr. 
Bartlett  began  by  a  donation  of  ten  thousand  dollars  and 


140      HISTORY  OF   ANDOVER   THEOLOGICAL   SEMINARY. 

not  long  after  added  twenty -five  thousand  dollars  to  found  a 
Professorship.  By  his  will  he  gave  the  Seminary  fifty  thou- 
sand dollars.  Mr.  Norris  gave  eleven  thousand  dollars  and 
Mrs.  Norris,  relict  of  the  Founder,  made  a  bequest,  in  1811, 
of  thirty  thousand  dollars  to  the  Seminary.  The  late  William 
Phillips  of  Boston,  left  a  bequest  to  the  Seminary  of  ten  thou- 
sand dollars.  Henry  Grey  contributed  three  thousand  Jive 
hundred  dollars  for  the  Library.  Dr.  Ebenezer  Porter  gave 
two  thousand  dollars.  Mary  Osborn  by  her  will  gave  two 
thousand  dollars.  Arthur  Tappan  gave  one  thousand,  six  hun- 
dred and  sixty-six.  One  tJiousand  dollars  was  given  by  each 
of  the  following  persons,  namely,  Nicholas  Pike,  Jonathan 
Marsh,  Henry  Homes,  William  Kopes,  and  Rev.  Dr.  Codman. 
Elizabeth  Cutter  gave  seven  hundred  dollars.  Mary  Gregory 
six  hundred  and  eighty-six  dollars. 

Before  entering  on  the  account  of  the  buildings  erected, 
I  may  say  here  that  on  the  *25th  day  of  September  the  Visi- 
tors passed  the  following  vote, — 

"Whereas,  by  the  28th  Article  of  the  Statutes  of  the 
Associate  Founders,  it  is  provided  that  if,  after  an  experi- 
ment of  seven  years,  the  Board  of  Visitors  and  the  Trustees 
of  Phillips  Academy  are  well  satisfied  with  the  safety  and 
expediency  of  the  Visitatorial  system,  and  that  a  perpetual 
coalition  is  important  and  desirable,  union  shall  be  estab- 
lished on  Visitatorial  principles  to  continue  forever, 

"  Voted,  That  the  Board  of  Visitors  are  well  satisfied  with 
said  system  and  that  a  perpetual  coalition  upon  said  princi- 
ples is  important  and  desirable,  and  that  the  concurrence 
of  the  Trustees  be  requested  by  the  Secretary." 

Whereupon  the  Trustees  voted, — 

"That  we  do  concur  with  the  request  of  the  Board  of 
Visitors,  and  declare  that  the  perpetual  union  contemplated 
by  the  Statutes  is  established." 

The  following  are  the  buildings  erected  for  the  use  of  the 
Seminary. 

In  1809  the  first  college  edifice,  called  Phillips  Hall,  to- 


OPENING   OF    THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY.         141 

gether  with  a  steward's  house,  was  built  by  Madam  Phoebe 
Phillips  and  her  son.  In  the  course  of  1810  and  1811  Mr. 
Bartlett  built  a  dwelling-house,  for  his  Professor,  Dr.  Griffin; 
and  during  the  next  year  he  built  a  house  for  the  Associate 
Professor,  Moses  Stuart.1  In  1816  the  Trustees,  as  authorized 
by  Mr.  Abbot,  built  a  house  for  the  Professor  of  Christian 
Theology. 

During  the  year  1816,  owing  to  the  increased  number  of 
students,  we  began  to  experience  great  inconvenience  for  the 
want  of  additional  buildings;  and  in  December,  by  request 
of  my  Colleagues,  I  made  a  particular  statement  of  our 
circumstances,  and  appealed  for  relief  to  the  friends  of  the 
Seminary.  This  statement  was  read  to  the  Donors  at  New- 
buryport,  and  to  a  few  men  besides.  In  addition  to  this,  we 
conversed  freely  with  Mr.  Bartlett  respecting  the  prosperity 
of  the  Seminary,  and  its  consequent  necessities.  He  was  the 
man  to  whom  we  could  best  apply  for  great  benefactions. 
In  the  following  February,  he  informed  the  Trustees  of  his 
intention  to  erect  an  edifice  which  should  contain  a  Chapel, 
a  Library,  and  three  Lecture  Booms.  As  the  bricks  which 
were  made  near  Newburyport  were  superior  to  any  which 
could  be  made  in  Andover,  he  ordered  the  whole  amount 
necessary  for  that  building  to  be  carried  in  a  wagon  by  four 
oxen  of  great  strength,  more  than  twenty  miles  over  a  hilly 
country.  On  Sept.  22,  1818,  the  edifice  was  dedicated  by 
appropriate  exercises.  Dr.  Porter,  the  Bartlett  Professor, 
being  the  preacher. 

Not  long  after  the  completion  of  the  Chapel,  the  num- 
ber of  students  had  become  so  large,  that  many  of  them 
suffered  great  inconvenience  for  want  of  rooms.  In  these 
circumstances,  I  wrote  again  with  the  utmost  freedom, 
and  with  the  entire  concurrence  of  my  Colleagues,  to  the 
same  generous  friend  and  benefactor,  laying  before  him 
the  unexpected  growth  of  the  Seminary,  and  the  consequent 
necessity  for  more  ample  accommodations.  To  this  applica- 
1  See  in  Appendix,  letter  of  Jan.  1,  1810. 


142       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

tion  lie  responded,  not  by  word  or  by  letter,  but  by  action. 
Early  in  the  spring  of  1820,  we  found  his  men  at  work  laying 
the  foundation  of  such  an  edifice  as  was  wanted.  During 
that  year  and  the  next,  the  South  College,  called  Bartlett  Hall, 
was  completed ;  and  Mrs.  Bartlett,  the  wife  of  the  Donor,  pro- 
vided very  convenient  furniture  for  the  rooms,  which  were 
thirty-two  in  number,  and  the  occupants  of  the  rooms  were 
required  to  pay  a  small  tax,  sufficient  to  keep  the  furniture 
in  good  repair. 

On  Sept.  18,  1821,  Bartlett  Hall  was  dedicated  by  a  ser- 
mon from  Professor  Stuart  and  other  appropriate  exercises 

In  September,  1832,  in  consequence  of  the  failure  ot  Dr. 
Porter's  health,  and  his  resignation  of  his  office  as  Bartlett 
Professor  of  Sacred  Khetoric,  the  Rev.  Dr.  Skinner,  D.D.,  was 
elected  in  his  place.  And  as  Dr.  Porter  still  continued  to 
hold  the  office  of  President,  and  to  occupy  the  house  in  which 
he  had  lived  for  twenty  years,  another  dwelling-house  became 
necessary.  Mr.  Bartlett  undertook  this  work  also,  and  in  1834 
built  another  house  for  the  use  of  the  Bartlett  Professor. 

The  five  buildings  erected  by  the  bounty  of  Mr.  Bartlett 
were,  in  due  form,  made  over  to  the  Trustees,  for  the  perma- 
nent benefit  of  the  Seminary. 

A  characteristic  letter  from  Dr.  Spring  at  this  period  gives 
an  account  of  the  bell  donated  for  the  new  chapel.1 

Another  building  was  afterwards  erected  "by  the  Trustees, 
as  a  place  where  the  students  could  apply  themselves,  at  con- 
venient times,  to  manual  labor,  for  the  twofold  purpose  of 
promoting  health,  and  procuring  means  to  aid  in  their  sup- 
port;— a  scheme  which  was  successful  only  for  a  time.  The 
building  remained  unoccupied  for  many  years,  until  1852  it 
was  fitted  to  be  a  convenient  dwelling-house  for  Professor 
Stowe. 

One  more  house  was  provided,  and  in  circumstances  which 
I  shall  take  the  liberty,  very  briefly,  to  mention. 

In  the  year  1842  I  was  for  a  few  days  visited  with  sick- 

1  See  in  Appendix,  letter  from  Dr.  Spring  to  L.  Woods,  Jan.  1,  1810. 


OPENING    OF    THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY.         143 

ness;  and  while  turning  my  thoughts  on  my  pillow  to  the 
concerns  of  the  Seminary,  it  occurred  to  me  that  the  founda- 
tion for  the  Brown  Professorship  was  incomplete.  I  felt  a 
lively  interest  in  this  subject  for  various  reasons,  and  partic- 
ularly on  account  of  the  efforts  I  had  made  more  than  twenty 
years  before  to  secure  from  Mr.  Brown  a  foundation  for  a  new 
Professorship.  He  at  length  gave  $25,000.  But  the  income 
of  this  fund  was  only  sufficient  to  pay  the  common  salary  of 
a  Professor,  tvithout  a  house,  and  I  knew  that  the  present  in- 
cumbent, Dr.  Emerson,  was,  on  this  account,  subjected  to 
serious  inconvenience.  The  question  arose  in  my  mind, 
whether  something  ought  not  to  be  done  to  supply  the 
deficiency.  On  reflection  I  was  satisfied  that  there  was  only 
one  person  to  whom  an  appeal  could  be  made  on  this  subject, 
with  any  prospect  of  success,  and  that  person  was  Sarah 
Banister,  the  grand-daughter,  and  only  surviving  descendant, 
of  Mr.  Brown.  I  well  knew  her  love  and  veneration  for  her 
grandfather,  and  that  she  inherited,  not  only  the  greater 
part  of  his  estate,  but  his  habitual  readiness  to  do  good.  To 
her  therefore,  and  to  her  parents,  I  presented  the  subject  by 
letter  in  Dec.,  1842,  and  afterwards  in  a  free  conversation  at 
her  father's  house  proposed  to  her  to  provide  a  dwelling-house 
which  should  be  attached  to  the  Brown  Professorship,  and 
thus  to  supply  the  deficiency  above  mentioned,  and  to  make 
the  support  of  the  Brown  Professor  equal  to  that  of  the  other 
Professors.  In  1843,  through  the  agency  of  her  father,  Miss 
Banister,  now  Mrs.  Hale,  generously  complied  with  the  pro- 
posal made  to  her,  by  purchasing  and  repairing  a  convenient 
dwelling-house,  and  adding  thereto  several  acres  of  valuable 
land. 

In  addition  to  the  benefactions  to  the  Seminary  already 
mentioned,  considerable  sums  were  from  time  to  time  given 
for  the  support  of  indigent  students.  Mr.  Bartlett,  in  Oct., 
1810,  engaged  to  provide  through  their  whole  course  for  all 
who  needed  assistance  in  the  class  just  admitted.  The  late 
Hon.  William  Phillips  gave  annually  very  liberal  donations 


144      HISTORY  OF  ANDOYER   THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

for  many  years,  for  the  same  purpose;  and  thousands  of 
dollars  were  contributed  for  this  object  in  smaller  sums.  For 
the  first  ten  or  twelve  years,  it  was  my  practice  during  the 
autumn  of  each  year  to  apply  to  various  individuals,  who 
were  well  known  friends  of  the  Institution,  requesting  them 
to  give  what  was  needed,  in  addition  to  the  income  of  the 
funds,  for  the  support  of  indigent  young  men ;  and  I  always 
found  them  ready  to  contribute  to  this  object,  some  provid- 
ing for  one  student  through  the  year,  some  for  two,  and  some 
for  three.  I  generally  obtained  from  one  thousand  to  fifteen 
hundred  dollars.  At  length,  with  the  help  of  the  Education 
Society  and  our  own  funds,  we  were  able  to  dispense  with  this 
aid  from  individuals ;  though  in  some  special  cases  it  was  still 
necessary. 

Thus  the  good  providence  of  God  furnished  the  Seminary 
with  liberal  funds,  convenient  buildings,  and  other  aid  as 
circumstances  required. 


CHAPTER    IX. 

THE    FIRST    FIVE    PROFESSORS. 

IN  the  first  part  of  this  history,  I  have  spoken  of  my 
own  appointment  as  Professor  of  Christian  Theology  by 
the  Founders  on  both  sides.  The  sincere  friendship  and 
unreserved  intercourse,  which  existed  between  Dr.  Spring 
and  myself,  and  our  substantial  agreement  on  the  great 
subject  of  theology,  induced  him  at  the  outset  to  propose 
me  to  the  Associate  Founders  as  Professor  of  Theology  in 
the  Seminary  which  they  had  agreed  to  establish.  After- 
wards, with  a  view  to  the  proposed  union,  Mr.  Abbot  ap- 
pointed me  as  Professor  on  his  Foundation.  I  was  then 
conscious,  as  I  always  have  been,  that  my  qualifications 
were  very  limited  compared  with  those  which  such  an 
office  required.  But  I  was  riot  without  encouragement. 
I  had  the  benefit  of  ten  years'  experience  in  the  sacred 
office.  My  age  was  suitable;  and  my  health  was  vigorous. 
I  had  an  intense  love  for  the  study  of  theology,  and  I 
was  favored  with  the  friendship  of  my  fathers  and  brethren 
in  the  ministry,  and  heard  many  cheering  words  from  their 
lips.  The  work,  too,  of  a  teacher  in  a  Divinity  School,  had 
indescribable  attractions  to  my  feelings.  And  most  of  all 
I  had  the  blessed  assurance  that,  if  I  trusted  in  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  His  grace  would  be  sufficient  for  me. 

I  looked  up  to  Dr.  Pearson  with  cordial  esteem  and 
veneration,  as  my  former  and  very  faithful  instructor  in 
Harvard  College,  and  my  friend  and  helper  in  all  that  per- 
tained to  the  arduous  business  of  establishing  the  United 


146       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

Institution;  and  I  was  very  desirous  that  the  Seminary, 
at  its  commencement,  should  enjoy  the  benefit  of  his  dis- 
tinguished talents,  and  his  long  experience  as  a  teacher 
of  young  men.  And  the  way  was  fully  prepared  for  this. 
For  his  free  intercourse  with  Dr.  Spring  and  the  Associate 
Founders  had  effectually  removed  their  previous  prejudices 
against  him,  and  secured  their  sincere  respect  and  confi- 
dence. At  the  proper  time  therefore,  with  the  approval 
and  co-operation  of  the  Trustees,  they  fixed  upon  him  as 
Professor  on  the  Associate  Foundation.  And  as  he  was 
unwilling  to  be  called  Professor  of  Sacred  Literature,  they 
appointed  him  as  Professor  of  Natural  Theology.  But  in 
compliance  with  the  wishes  of  the  Trustees  he  consented 
to  act  for  a  time  as  Professor  of  Sacred  Literature.  It  soon 
however  appeared  that  he  was  neither  successful  nor  happy 
in  his  labors.  The  Seminary  was  widely  different  from 
Harvard  College;  and  his  peculiar  qualifications  for  the 
College  were  not  equally  suited  to  a  Divinity  School.  His 
manner  of  teaching  and  his  ideas  of  government  and  social 
intercourse  were  not  agreeable  to  pious  young  men,  who 
had  been  graduated  at  our  Colleges,  and  who  were  engaged 
in  studies  preparatory  to  the  sacred  office.  Not  having 
been  a  minister  of  the  Gospel  himself,  he  could  not  easily 
sympathize  with  the  views  and  aspirations  of  those  who 
were  reaching  forward  to  the  ministry,  and  who  gave  a 
very  reluctant  attention  to  any  subject,  however  important 
in  itself,  which  had  not  a  manifest  bearing  upon  their 
chosen  profession.  Such  had  been  his  previous  impressions 
that  he  looked  with  fear  upon  all  those  meetings  for  free 
devotional  exercises,  to  which  they  had  been  previously 
accustomed,  and  which  they  now  felt  to  be  specially  neces- 
sary to  their  spiritual  good,  as  they  were  deprived  of  many 
of  their  former  religious  privileges.  On  this  and  other  sim- 
ilar subjects  there  was  a  want  of  harmony  between  him 
and  the  Professors  and  students  connected  with  him  in 
the  Seminary.  The  consequence  was,  that  he  became  dis- 


THE    FIRST    FIVE    PROFESSORS.  147 

contented  and  unhappy.  He  acknowledged  at  length  that 
he  enjoyed  no  satisfaction  in  his  duties,  and  that  his  office 
was  irksome.  At  the  end  of  the  year,  that  is,  in  Sept.,  1809, 
he  resigned  his  place. 

Mr.  Bartlett,  as  I  have  already  mentioned,  founded  a 
Professorship  in  1807,  and  afterwards  appropriated  it  to 
the  department  of  Pulpit  Eloquence,  or  Sacred  Rhetoric. 
The  circumstances  of  this  act  of  benevolence  were  so  pe- 
culiar, that  I  cannot  pass  them  in  silence.  It  was  at  the 
time  when  Dr.  Spring  was  not  fully  reconciled  to  the  pro- 
posed union,  and  when  he  was  disposed,  with  great  frank- 
ness, to  mention  everything  which  seemed  to  have  an 
unfavorable  bearing  on  the  subject.  With  this  view  he 
said  to  Messrs.  Bartlett  and  Brown,  as  he  immediately  after 
told  me,  "  Gentlemen,  if  you  go  to  Andover,  you  will  not 
go  on  an  equal  footing  with  the  Founders  there;  for  you 
have  founded  only  one  Professorship,  while  Mr.  Abbot's 
funds  will  support  two  Professors  or  more."  Mr.  Bartlett 
instantly  replied:  "If  you  will  be  content,  I  will  found 
another  Professorship."  And  this  he  shortly  did.  And  he 
requested  Dr.  Spring  to  look  out  for  a  man  to  be  a  Pro- 
fessor on  his  Foundation.  Dr.  Spring  afterwards  visited 
New  York  and  New  Jersey,  made  diligent  inquiry,  conversed 
with  several  men,  and  heard  more  than  one  distinguished 
minister  preach.  Some  who  took  an  interest  in  the  wel- 
fare of  the  Seminary,  were,  for  a  time,  desirous  that  the 
Rev.  Dr.  Abeel  should  be  obtained.  But  Dr.  Spring  and 
Mr.  Bartlett,  and  most  others,  preferred  Dr.  Griffin.  And 
the  visit  which  he  not  long  after  made  to  Charlestown  and 
Newburyport,  and  the  sermons  he  preached  there,  awakened 
a  still  more  earnest  desire,  that  the  infant  Seminary  might 
enjoy  the  benefit  of  his  talents  and  eloquence.  Accordingly 
Mr.  Bartlett  appointed  him  as  Professor  on  his  Foundation. 
But  Dr.  Griffin  after  a  little  time  expressed  his  unwilling- 
ness to  quit  the  important  station  he  held  at  Newark,  for 


148       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY. 

the  one  which  was  offered  to  him  at  Andover.  It  was  about 
the  same  time  that  Park  Street  Church  in  Boston,  which 
had  recently  been  organized,  extended  a  call  to  him  to 
become  their  minister.  This  office  was  considered  as  very 
important  in  itself,  and  still  more  important  in  relation  to 
the  interests  of  religion  in  Boston.  For  although  that 
metropolis  had  been  distinguished  for  orthodoxy  and  piety 
in  the  former  periods  of  New  England,  it  had  lamentably 
declined  from  the  religion  of  the  Puritans;  and  the  spirit 
of  evangelical  truth  and  godliness,  which  was  once  preva- 
lent there,  had  almost  disappeared  from  the  Congregational 
churches.  Dr.  Griffin  was  thought  to  be  eminently  quali- 
fied to  preach  the  Gospel  in  that  place,  and  through  the 
Divine  blessing,  to  revive  pure  and  undefined  religion. 

But  it  soon  appeared  that  Dr.  Griffin  could  not  think  of 
leaving  Newark,  either  for  Boston  or  for  Andover,  but  that 
he  might  be  willing  to  remove,  if  he  could,  in  some  suitable 
way,  be  connected  with  both.  To  this  proposal  Mr.  Bartlett 
had  strong  objections.  He  thought  that  a  Professorship  at 
Andover  was  sufficiently  important  to  occupy  the  time  and 
talents  of  any  man;  and  to  induce  Dr.  Griffin  to  accept  his 
appointment,  he  offered  to  provide  an  ample  salary,  and  to 
build  such  a  house  for  him  as  he  should  choose.  The  letters 
which  were  written  by  Dr.  Morse,  Dr.  Spring,  and  Dr.  Griffin 
and  others,  show  how  earnestly  the  subject  was  discussed, 
how  averse  Mr.  Bartlett  was  to  accede  to  the  proposal  of  a 
twofold  connection  for  his  Professor,  and  how  decided  Dr. 
Griffin  was  not  to  accept  either  office  alone.1 

At  length,  Mr.  Bartlett,  being  resolved,  if  possible,  to 
obtain  Dr.  Griffin's  services  at  Andover,  with  the  advice  of 
Dr.  Spring  and  others,  gave  his  reluctant  consent,  that,  in 
connection  with  holding  the  Professorship  at  Andover,  Dr. 
Griffin  should,  for  the  present,  have  liberty  to  preach  half 

i  See  Appendix,  letter  of  Dr.  Morse  to  Dr.  Dwight,  July  15,  1808;  of  Dr. 
Griffin  to  Dr.  Morse,  July  28,  1808;  from  Dr.  Griffin  to  L.  Woods,  Nov.  26, 
1808  and  March  27,  1809. 


THE    FIRST    FIVE    PROFESSORS.  149 

the  time  in  Park  Street  Church.  But  with  his  characteristic 
nobleness  of  feeling,  Mr.  Bartlett  insisted  that  Dr.  Griffin 
should  not  depend  for  any  part  of  his  salary  on  his  preach- 
ing abroad,  but  should  receive  the  whole  from  him. 

Dr.  Griffin  accepted  the  appointment  of  Mr.  Bartlett, 
March  27,  1809,  on  the  specific  conditions  which  he  had 
before  suggested,  and  was  inaugurated  as  Professor  at  An- 
dover,  June  21,  1809. 

But  it  was  not  long  before  he  began  to  be  overburdened 
with  the  labors  and  cares  of  his  twofold  engagement.  The 
number  of  students  had,  during  the  summer  of  1809,  risen  to 
thirty-six;  and  Dr.  Griffin  soon  found  that  his  labors  at  Park 
Street  Church  interfered  with  his  studies,  and  with  his  various 
and  momentous  duties  as  Professor;  and,  on  the  other  hand, 
that  his  duties  as  Professor  essentially  interfered  with  the  lab- 
ors which  were  called  for  in  Park  Street  Church.  But  he  did 
what  he  could.  During  the  second  year  after  the  opening 
of  the  Seminary,  he  entered  in  good  earnest,  as  far  as  his 
engagements  in  Boston  would  permit,  on  the  duties  of  his 
office  at  Andover;  and  it  quickly  became  evident  that  he 
possessed  extraordinary  qualifications  for  the  work  which  he 
had  undertaken.  His  remarkable  discrimination,  acuteness 
and  taste  as  a  critic,  his  powerful  eloquence  in  the  pulpit, 
and  his  affectionate  freedom  in  conversation  with  the  stu- 
dents, secured  both  their  love  and  their  admiration. 

But  in  the  course  of  two  years  after  his  induction  into 
office  in  the  Seminary,  he  became  satisfied  that  he  could  not 
continue  to  discharge  the  multiplied  and  constantly-increas- 
ing duties  which  devolved  upon  him,  and  that  he  must 
confine  himself  either  to  the  Seminary,  or  to  Park  Street 
Church.  His  mind  was  for  a  time  held  in  painful  doubt. 
But  as  he  had  long  been  accustomed  to  the  ministerial  office, 
and  as  that  office  had  been  endeared  to  him  by  the  extraordi- 
nary success  which  had  crowned  his  labors,  he  at  length 
decided  to  give  himself  to  the  work  of  a  Pastor  in  Park 
Street  Church,  in  preference  to  the  more  private  studies  and 


150       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

labors  which  his  office  at  Andover  imposed  upon  him.  Ac- 
cordingly, in  April,  1811,  he  resigned  his  office  as  Professor, 
and  removed  to  Boston.  In  a  letter  to  his  brother,  dated 
April  29,  1811,  he  says,  "After  being  tossed  for.  two  years, 
and  kept  in  a  state  of  restlessness,  and  crushed  with  the  cares 
of  Andover  and  Boston  united,  I  have  at  last  found  a  place 
of  rest.  I  have  resigned  my  office  at  Andover,  and  am  here 
with  my  family." 

Had  Dr.  Griffin  devoted  himself,  without  interruption,  to 
his  official  duties  in  the  Seminary,  he  might  soon  have 
reached  the  highest  eminence  in  reputation  and  in  useful- 
ness, both  as  a  critic  and  as  a  lecturer.  His  views  on  the 
subject  of  preaching  and  the  other  duties  of  the  sacred  office, 
on  the  nature  and  importance  of  genuine  revivals  of  religion, 
and  on  the  cause  of  missions,  were  such  as  should  be  im- 
pressed on  the  minds  of  all  candidates  for  the  ministry.  As 
a  theologian,  Dr.  Griffin  was  a  decided  and  zealous  Calvinist. 
He  agreed  with  the  Westminster  Assembly  of  Divines,  with 
our  Puritan  fathers,  and  particularly  with  Edwards.  He  was 
a  man  of  deep  and  tender  sensibilities,  and  uniformly  exhib- 
ited the  spirit  of  fervent  prayer.  Throughout  his  public 
life,  and  in  the  midst  of  many  severe  trials,  he  exercised 
Christian  love  and  meekness,  forbearance  and  forgiveness. 
And  I  only  add  that  his  labors  as  Professor,  though  so  much 
interrupted,  and  continued  for  so  short  a  period,  proved  a 
timely  and  inestimable  blessing  to  the  infant  Seminary. 

Immediately  after  the  resignation  of  Dr.  Pearson,  Dr. 
Spring  was  requested  to  inquire  for  a  man  to  be  Professor 
of  Sacred  Literature.  He  had  previously  entertained  an 
opinion  in  favor  of  Rev.  Moses  Stuart.  He  therefore  repaired 
to  New  Haven,  and  having  heard  Mr.  Stuart  preach,  and 
being  well  satisfied  with  his  services,  he  asked  Dr.  Dwight 
whether  he  thought  him  qualified  to  be  a  Professor  at  An- 
dover. Dr.  Dwight  replied,  "Mr.  Stuart  is  well  qualified  for 
the  office,  but  we  can't  spare  him."  Dr.  Spring  answered, 


THE    FIRST    FIVE    PROFESSORS.  1'51 

u  We  don't  want  a  man  that  can  be  spared."  On  the  ground 
of  Dr.  Spring's  recommendation,  Mr.  Stuart  was  elected  Pro- 
fessor of  Sacred  Literature.  The  situation  he  held  at  New 
Haven  was  one  of  great  importance;  and  during  the  short 
period  of  his  ministry  there,  his  labors  had  been  remarkably 
successful.  He  enjoyed  the  strong  attachment  and  confidence 
of  his  Church  and  Society,  and  he  was  universally  regarded 
as  a  young  man  of  uncommon  promise.  The  question  of  his 
removal  he  chose  to  refer  to  an  Ecclesiastical  Council.1 

We  were  aware  that  strenuous  efforts  would  be  made  to 
prevent  Mr.  Stuart  from  leaving  his  church,  and  we  were  ap- 
prehensive that  the  Council  would  not  give  due  weight  to 
the  considerations  which  existed  in  favor  of  his  removal,  and 
would  not  be  likely  to  decide  in  favor  of  our  wishes.  By 
request,  therefore,  of  Dr.  Griffin  and  others,  I  wrote  to  Dr. 
Spring,  proposing  that  some  one  should  be  delegated  to  plead 
our  cause  before  the  Council,  and  I  urged  this  proposal  with 
no  ordinary  measure  of  zeal.  But  Dr.  Spring,  with  his  better 
judgment,  decidedly  objected  to  the  measure  proposed,  being 
confident  that  our  letters  would  do  all  that  could  be  done  to 
secure  our  object,  and  that  it  would  be  perfectly  safe,  and 
better  in  the  end,  to  place  entire  confidence  in  the  wisdom 
and  impartiality  of  the  Council.2  The  Council,  after  careful 
deliberation,  recommended  Mr.  Stuart's  removal  to  Andover. 
He  came  here  in  the  spring  of  1810,  being  about  thirty  years 
old.  Although  he  was  then  ignorant  of  both  the  Hebrew 
and  the  German  languages,  he  had  the  power  of  acquiring 
knowledge  with  great  facility,  particularly  the  knowledge 
of  languages.  He  pursued  his  studies,  and  attended  on  all  his 
duties,  with  his  characteristic  ardor.  I  well  remember  how  dil- 
igent, yea,  how  absorbed  he  was  in  the  study  of  the  very  imper- 
fect grammars  which  could  then  be  obtained,  and  how  soon  he 
was  able  to  begin  the  work  of  teaching  Hebrew,  and  expound- 
ing the  Scriptures  of  the  Old  Testament  as  well  as  the  New. 

'  See  in  Appendix,  letter  from  Moses  Stuart  to  L.  Woods,  Sept.,  1809. 
2  See  in  Appendix,  Dr.  Spring's  letter  to  L.  Woods,  Jan.  1,  1810. 


152       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

In  the  first  Lectures  which  Professor  Stuart  wrote  and 
delivered  on  Sacred  Literature,  he  directed  all  his  power  of 
argument  and  ridicule  against  the  use  of  the  Hebrew  points, 
to  the  great  satisfaction  of  Dr.  Pearson,  who  had  always! 
taught  the  language  in  Harvard  College  without  the  points. 
Bat  on  this  subject,  Prof.  Stuart  soon  changed  his  opinion. 
After  a  time,  he  began  to  study  the  German  language.  In  a 
long  journey  which  we  took  together  in  1816,  he  carried  his 
German  books  with  him,  and  was  earnestly  engaged  in  study 
whenever  we  stopped,  and  sometimes  while  riding  in  the 
carriage.  But  I  found  that  his  application  to  study,  instead 
of  rendering  him  less  social,  increased  the  variety  and  in- 
terest of  his  conversation. 

Professor  Stuart  had  singular  qualifications  as  a  teacher. 
He  carried  all  his  ardor  into  the  lecture-room,  and  never 
failed  to  awaken  a  correspondent  ardor  in  the  minds  of  his 
pupils.  It  was  his  practice  to  disclose  his  thoughts  and 
feelings  to  them  without  any  reserve;  and  this,  together 
with  his  vein  of  pleasantry,  and  his  frequent  repetition  of 
scraps  of  Latin  and  Greek,  gave  a  peculiar  zest  to  his  in- 
structions, and  made  the  time  spent  in  his  lecture-room  ap- 
pear very  short.  As  he  faithfully  employed  his  time  and 
talents  in  his  appropriate  work,  he  soon  attained  to  eminence 
as  a  linguist  and  an  expounder.  The  elementary  books  which 
he  published  relating  to  his  department,  together  with  his 
Commmentaries  on  the  Epistle  to  the  Hebrews,  and  other 
portions  of  Scripture,  gave  him  a  high  reputation,  both  here 
and  in  Europe,  as  a  critic  and  an  expositor. 

As  a  preacher,  Prof.  Stuart  was  earnest,  popular  and  in- 
structive. His  flexible  voice,  his  seriousness,  his  warmth  of 
feeling,  his  distinct  and  animated  utterance,  in  short,  the 
whole  matter  and  manner  of  his  preaching,  gave  him  a  mer- 
ited eminence  among  the  ministers  of  the  Gospel. 

After  the  lapse  of  about  twenty  years,  it  appeared  that  on 
some  points  of  speculative  divinity,  particularly  in  anthro- 
pology, there  was  not  an  entire  agreement  between  his  opin- 


THE    FIRST    FIVE    PROFESSORS.  153 

ions  and  those  entertained  by  Dr.  Porter  and  myself.  But 
it  was  otherwise  in  regard  to  the  great  principles  of  experi- 
mental and  practical  godliness.  I  was  constantly  associated 
with  him  for  a  long  course  of  years,  in  conducting  the  Wednes- 
day Evening  Conference;  in  which  the  whole  circle  of  evan- 
gelical doctrines,  together  with  the  objections  and  difficulties 
pertaining  to  them,  and  all  matters  relating  to  Christian 
experience,  duty,  and  comfort,  were  made  the  subjects  of  the 
most  free  and  earnest  remark.  We  poured  out  the  feelings 
of  our  hearts  to  our  beloved  pupils  on  the  character  and 
work  of  the  Saviour  and  the  Holy  Spirit,  and  on  the  great 
interests  of  time  and  eternity.  And  with  reference  to  these 
solemn,  unreserved  and  delightful  conferences,  we  often  said 
to  each  other,  "  Were  there  ever  two  men  more  perfectly  of 
one  mind  and  one  heart  ? "  From  these  weekly  services 
he  derived  benefit  to  himself,  and  he  considered  them,  to- 
gether with  our  Seminary  Fast  in  each  term,  as  of  more 
value  than  any  other  duty  in  which  we  were  engaged. 

The  labors  of  Professor  Stuart  in  his  department  contri- 
buted in  a  pre-eminent  degree  to  the  reputation  and  use- 
fulness of  the  Seminary,  and  had  a  powerful  influence  in 
promoting  in  our  country  the  study  of  the  Scriptures  in  their 
original  languages,  and  in  settling  the  principles  of  exegesis. 
In  the  important  improvements  which  have  been  made  in 
this  branch  of  sacred  learning,  during  the  last  forty  years, 
Professor  Stuart  had  a  leading  agency. 

In  regard  to  the  plenary  inspiration  of  the  Scriptures, 
Professor  Stuart,  for  a  time,  dissented  somewhat  from  the 
common  doctrine;  and  he  freely  expressed  his  opinions  on 
the  subject  in  his  lecture-room,  and  hinted  at  them  in  some 
of  his  publications.  But  as  he  advanced  in  age,  in  knowl- 
edge, and  in  piety,  and  as  he  reflected  more  seriously  on  the 
lax  speculations  which  were  published  on  the  subject  in  our 
own  country,  in  Great  Britain,  and  in  Germany,  and  con- 
sidered the  effect  which  those  speculations  had  actually 
produced  on  the  cause  which  was  dearest  to  his  heart,  he 


154      HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

was  distressed  with  the  most  painful  apprehensions.  He 
saw  that  the  philosophic  theories  of  Morell,  and  of  some  of 
the  most  ingenious  and  celebrated  German  authors,  and  even 
of  the  excellent  Neander,  tended  directly  to  weaken  the  in- 
fluence and  undermine  the  authority  of  the  Word  of  God; 
and  he  expressed  to  me  his  determination,  if  God  spared  his 
life,  to  give  his  solemn  testimony  on  the  subject.  I  told  him 
that  such  a  testimony  from  him  would  be  of  great  value,  and 
urged  him  to  prepare  it  without  delay.  This  testimony  he 
soon  after  gave,  to  the  joy  of  many  hearts.1 

It  was  an  amiable  trait  in  the  character  of  Professor 
Stuart,  that,  although  he  was  generally  very  confident  of  the 
truth  of  his  present  opinions,  he  was  disposed  to  continue 
his  investigations,  and  was  ready,  on  the  ground  of  further 
evidence,  to  change  his  opinions,  and  equally  ready  to  ac- 
knowledge the  change.  Thus  he  gave  a  fresh  illustration  of 
the  principle,  so  obvious  and  yet  so  often  overlooked,  that  it 
is  an  honor  to  a  man's  understanding  and  heart  to  acknowl- 
edge his  mistakes  and  to  embrace  new  and  better  opinions. 

Professor  Stuart  was  sufficiently  conscious  of  his  superior 
talents  and  acquisitions,  and  frequently  spoke  of  them  with 
singular  freedom.  But  his  conscious  superiority  related  to 
those  whom  he  looked  upon  as  below  him  in  intelligence. 
Before  God,  he  was  clothed  with  humility.  Few  Christians 
within  my  knowledge  have  manifested  a  more  affecting 
sense  of  indwelling  sin,  and  ill-desert,  a  deeper  self-abase- 
ment, or  a  more  cordial  and  entire  reliance  for  salvation  on 
the  grace  of  God,  through  the  atoning  blood  of  Christ. 

Now  that  Professor  Stuart,  the  last  of  the  two  colleagues 
with  whom  I  was  so  long  and  so  happily  associated,  has 
gone  to  his  rest,  it  is  a  precious  comfort  to  think  of  him  as 
a  man  of  prayer;  to  remember  his  humble  confessions,  his 
penitential  tears,  and  his  fervent  supplications  both  in  the 
public  assembly  and  in  our  more  private  meetings;  and  par- 
ticularly to  call  to  mind,  as  I  often  do,  the  various  seasons 
i  See  JBibliotheca  Sacra,  for  185-. 


THE    FIRST    FIVE    PROFESSORS.  155 

of  uncommon  doubt  and  difficulty  in  regard  to  our  duty,  or 
uncommon  personal  or  domestic  affliction,  when  we  went  to 
our  places  of  retirement  and  approached  the  throne  of  grace 
in  united  prayer.  I  mention  it  to  the  honor  of  God,  who 
gave  him  a  heart  of  fraternal  love  and  tenderness,  and  the 
spirit  of  grace  and  supplication,  and  who  granted  to  me  the 
privilege  of  living  more  than  forty  years  with  so  beloved 
and  excellent  a  brother. 

The  office  which  Dr.  Griffin  resigned  in  June,  1811,  did  not 
long  remain  vacant.  In  answer  to  inquiries  several  ministers 
in  Connecticut  strongly  recommended  the  Eev.  Ebenezer 
Porter,  of  Washington,  Conn.  He  was  elected  by  the  Trus- 
tees and  approved  by  the  Visitors  as  Bartlett  Professor  of 
Pulpit  Eloquence.  On  receiving  notice  of  his  election,  he 
wrote  the  following  answer  to  the  Trustees: — 

"Washington,  Dec.  19,  1811. 
"REVEREND  SIR, — 

"  The  Consociation  gave  a  decision  yesterday  in  favor  of 
my  removal  to  Andover,  as  soon  as  my  health  and  other 
circumstances  will  permit.  I  view  this  as  the  decision  of 
Providence  which  I  am  required  to  obey.  In  every  stefp  of 
the  process  which  has  produced  this  conclusion,  I  have  pro- 
ceeded with  trembling.  I  have  anticipated  the  pangs  which 
await  me,  in  separation  from  a  circle  of  friends  whom  I  love 
most  tenderly.  I  have  felt  the  difficulty  with  which  habits 
so  settled  as  mine  can  be  conformed  to  new  relations  and 
new  duties.  I  have  felt  and  still  feel  a  deep  conviction  of  my 
own  incompetence  to  fill  a  station  so  arduous  and  responsible 
as  that  which  is  assigned  me.  The  solicitude  excited  by  other 
considerations,  has  been  increased  by  the  state  of  my  health, 
which,  there  is  reason  to  fear,  will  prove  inadequate  to  the 
labors  required. 

"But  I  commit  myself  to  God,  relying  upon  His  aid,  and 
upon  the  candor,  the  counsel  and  the  prayers  of  the  Trustees 
and  the  Christian  brethren  with  whom  I  am  to  be  associated. 


156       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

It  will  however  be  expressly  understood  that  I  must  have 
time  to  study  the  things  which  I  am  to  teach;  that  I  must  be 
my  own  judge  how  much  application  to  business  my  consti- 
tution will  bear;  and  that,  if  the  interests  of  the  Institution 
should  be  found  to  suffer  through  my  lack  of  health  or  other 
qualifications,  I  shall  cheerfully  relinquish  the  office  whenever 
the  Trustees  may  think  it  necessary. 

"Should  these  views  correspond  with  those  of  the  gentle- 
men who  superintend  the  interests  of  the  Institution,  I  do 
hereby  accept  the  invitation  to  become  one  of  its  Professors. 
In  doing  this  I  rest  assured  that  every  proper  indulgence  will 
be  given  to  my  infirmities,  as  to  One  who  claims  no  other 
reputation  than  that  of  a  plain  man  of  honest  intentions. 
With  sentiments  of  great  respect 

"  I  am,  Kev.  Sir, 

"Yours,  etc., 

"  EBBNEZER  PORTER. 

"REV.   ETJPTTAT.TVT  PEABSON,  LL.D., 
"President  of  the  Board,  etc." 

Dr.  Porter  was  inducted  into  the  office  of  Bartlett  Pro- 
fessor, April  1,  1812.  But  before  his  induction,  in  compliance 
with  his  particular  request,  the  Founders  changed  the  title 
of  his  office  from  Pulpit  Eloquence  to  Sacred  Rhetoric. 

Dr.  Porter  had  been  a  highly  acceptable  and  successful 
minister  of  the  Gospel.  He  was  possessed  of  a  clear,  well- 
balanced  and  discriminating  mind,  and  a  sound  faith.  In 
judgment,  discretion,  and  equanimity,  he  has  seldom  been 
surpassed.  His  imagination  was  lively  and  fertile,  and  ex- 
ceedingly chaste.  He  was  endued  with  ardor  and  tenderness 
of  feeling;  but  his  constitution  had  become  so  delicate  and 
feeble,  that  he  could  not  safely  allow  himself  to  indulge  in 
those  strong  emotions  which  were  natural  to  him,  and  which 
formerly  gave  his  preaching  an  uncommon  degree  of  anima- 
tion. As  a  writer  and  a  critic  he  had  an  exquisite  taste.  A 
man  is  rarely  to  be  found  who  possesses  a  more  sweet  and 


THE    FIRST    FIVE    PROFESSORS.  157 

unruffled  temper,  more  uprightness  of  character,  a  more  be- 
nevolent heart,  more  true  dignity  of  person  and  manners, 
a  more  uniform  seriousness,  cheerfulness,  and  piety, —in 
short,  a  more  complete  combination  of  those  qualities  which 
are  necessary  to  constitute  a  good  minister  of  the  gospel,  a 
laborious  and  useful  Professor,  a  beloved  and  judicious 
colleague,  a  faithful  friend,  and  an  exemplary  Christian,  than 
what  belonged  to  Dr.  Porter.  Many  as  were  his  bodily 
infirmities  and  sufferings,  he  did  much  in  his  office;  and  all 
that  he  did,  he  did  well.  I  never  knew  a  man  so  frail  as  he, 
whose  diligence  and  perseverance  were  so  remarkable.  His 
wise  and  benevolent  agency  was  successfully  exerted  in  be- 
half of  our  various  benevolent  Institutions.  He  was  ready 
for  every  good  work.  His  colleagues,  his  pupils,  the  Found- 
ers and  Guardians  of  the  Seminary,  and  his  brethren  in  the 
ministry,  confided  in  him,  and  delighted  to  honor  so  excellent 
and  so  modest  a  man. 

The  following  are  the  works  he  published  in  his  own 
department,  namely, — Analysis  of  the  Principles  of  Rhetorical 
Delivery,  Analysis  of  Vocal  Inflections,  Lectures  on  Eloquence 
and  Style,  Lectures  on  Homiletics  and  Preaching  and  Public 
Prayer,  and  Rhetorical  Reader.  And  these  are  justly  esteemed 
among  the  best  and  most  finished  works  ever  published  on 
similar  subjects,  and  are  destined  to  have  a  permanent  repu- 
tation. His  Letters  on  Revivals  deserve  to  be  printed  in  let- 
ters of  gold.  The  various  sermons  he  published  bear  the 
stamp  of  his  own  character. 

In  1828,  when  the  Guardians  of  the  Seminary  deemed  it 
expedient  to  establish  the  office  of  President,  Dr.  Porter's 
colleagues  united  in  the  request  that  he  should  be  appointed 
to  that  office.  On  account  of  his  increasing  infirmities,  he 
resigned  the  office  of  Professor  in  1832,  still  retaining  the 
office  of  President;  from  which,  and  from  all  other  earthly 
concerns,  he  was  removed  by  death  in  1834. 

Dr.  Porter  and  the  two  Professors  with  whom  he  was  as- 
sociated labored  happily  together  for  many  years,  being  of 


158       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY. 

one  heart,  and  rejoicing  in  each  other's  usefulness,  and  in  the 
growing  prosperity  of  the  Seminary.  We  consulted  and 
labored  and  prayed  for  the  accomplishment  of  the  great  ob- 
ject for  which  the  Institution  was  established,  the  training  up 
of  learned,  orthodox  and  pious  ministers  of  the  gospel.  In  such 
a  situation  trials  and  difficulties  were  unavoidable.  But  our 
cordial  union,  the  approving  voice  of  those  around  us,  and 
the  blessing  of  God,  sustained  us.  I  resigned  my  office  in 
Sept.,  1846,  and  Professor  Stuart  resigned  his  office  in  Sept., 
1848. 

The  following  is  a  list  of  the  Professors  who  were  elected 
and  inducted  into  office,  after  the  first  five  mentioned  above. 

In  1821  the  Rev.  James  Murdock,  D.D.,  was  elected  Brown 
Professor  of  Ecclesiastical  History,  and  continued  in  office 
until  1828. 

In  1829  the  Rev.  Ralph  Emerson,  D.D.,  was  elected  Brown 
Professor  of  Ecclesiastical  History. 

In  1830  the  Rev.  Edward  Robinson  was  elected  Professor 
Extraordinary  of  Sacred  Literature  and  resigned  his  office  in 
1833. 

In  1833  the  Rev.  Thomas  H.  Skinner,  D.D.,  was  elected 
Bartlett  Professor  of  Sacred  Rhetoric  and  resigned  in  1835. 

In  1836  the  Rev.  Edwards  A.  Park,  D.D.,  was  elected  Bart- 
lett Professor  of  Sacred  Rhetoric;  and  in  1847  was  elected 
Abbot  Professor  of  Christian  Theology. 

In  1836  Rev.  Justin  Edwards,  D.D.,  was  elected  President 
of  the  Seminary  and  resigned  in  1842. 

In  1837  Rev.  Bela  B.  Edwards,  D.D.,  was  elected  Pro- 
fessor of  Hebrew,  and  in  1848  was  elected  Associate  Professor 
of  Sacred  Literature.  He  died  in  1851. 

In  1848  the  Rev.  Austin  Phelps  was  elected  Bartlett  Pro- 
fessor of  Sacred  Rhetoric. 

In  1852  Rev.  Calvin  E.  Stowe  was  elected  Professor  of 
Sacred  Literature. 

In  1853  Rev.  Elijah  P.  Barrows  was  elected  Professor  of 
Hebrew. 


CHAPTER    X. 

MEANS    OF   INTELLECTUAL   AND    SPIRITUAL   IMPROVEMENT. 

IT  was  the  united  endeavor  of  the  Professors,  to  ex- 
cite the  students  to  a  diligent  and  intense  application 
of  their  minds  to  study;  and  to  lead  them  on  to  high 
acquisitions  in  all  the  departments  of  sacred  learning.  With 
a  view  to  this  object  they  frequently  inculcated  upon  their 
pupils  the  importance  of  a  proper  attention  to  exercise  and 
other  means  of  promoting  vigorous  health;  the  importance 
too  of  avoiding  unnecessary  absences,  and  other  interrup- 
tions, and  of  persevering  through  the  whole  course  prescribed 
by  the  laws  of  the  Seminary.  In  not  a  few  instances  we 
found  it  very  difficult  to  induce  the  members  of  the  Sem- 
inary to  correct  the  habit  which  prevailed  among  them  of 
light  reading  and  miscellaneous  study,  and  to  form  the  better 
habit  of  devoting  themselves  steadily  and  in  good  earnest 
to  the  studies  and  exercises  pointed  out  for  them  in  each 
of  the  departments. 

The  Professors  in  conducting  their  own  studies,  in  com- 
posing and  delivering  their  Lectures,  and  in  the  discus- 
sions, both  public  and  private,  which  they,  carried  on, 
aimed  steadily  at  the  advancement  of  the  students  in  the 
different  branches  of  sacred  science. 

I  can  exhibit  here  only  an  imperfect  outline  of  the 
manner  in  which  the  exercises  of  the  different  Lecture 
Rooms  were  generally  conducted. 

In  the  department   of  Sacred   Literature,   the   Professor 


160       HISTORY   OF   ANDOYER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

first  assigned  to  the  newly-admitted  students,  regular  les- 
sons in  Hebrew  grammar.  When  these  lessons  were  recited, 
the  Professor  did  much  by  his  explanatory  remarks  to  in- 
crease their  interest  in  the  subject,  and  to  render  their  knowl- 
edge more  thorough  and  accurate.  After  this  he  proceeded 
in  the  interpretation  of  the  Hebrew  Scriptures.  In  attend- 
ing to  the  rules  of  exegesis,  the  class  made  use  of  the 
Hermaneutics  of  Ernesti,  a  work  which  Prof.  Stuart  had 
prepared  to  be  a  text  book  in  his  department.  When  the 
rules  of  Ernesti  were  recited,  the  Professor  took  occasion 
to  enlarge  on  the  several  topics  introduced.  He  then  di- 
rected the  class  to  a  careful  study  of  select  portions  of 
the  Old  Testament.  And  with  this  he  intermixed  the  crit- 
ical study  of  select  portions  of  the  New  Testament.  He 
very  justly  regarded  it  as  far  more  conducive  to  the  im- 
provement of  the  students,  that  they  should  well  under- 
stand the  principles  of  exegesis,  and  should  know  how  to 
apply  them  in  the  interpretation  of  moderate  portions  of 
the  sacred  volume,  than  that  they  should  pass  hastily  and 
superficially  over  the  whole. 

In  Christian  Theology,  the  business  of  instruction  and 
study  was  generally  pursued,  not  according  to  any  text 
book,  but  by  SUBJECTS,  though  experience  often  led  me  to 
attach  importance  to  the  use  of  a  text  book  in  this,  as 
well  as  in  every  other  branch  of  knowledge.  The  advan- 
tages of  this  mode  of  study  will,  I  think,  be  found  to 
outweigh  the  disadvantages. 

In  the  method  of  conducting  the  exercises  of  the  Lecture 
Room  I  studied  variety.  For  the  most  part  I  delivered  a 
written  Lecture,  which  was  briefly  reviewed  at  the  begin- 
ning of  the  next  exercise.  Sometimes  I  gave  the  students 
liberty  to  interrupt  me  even  while  reading  the  Lecture, 
by  asking  questions  or  stating  difficulties.  And  it  was 
often  the  case,  that  a  more  satisfactory  reply  could  be 
given  in  a  few  seconds,  than  in  as  many  minutes  in  other 
circumstances.  Sometimes  I  gave  a  mere  outline  of  the 


INTELLECTUAL    AND    SPIRITUAL    IMPROVEMENT.       161 

Lecture  and  then  introduced  a  free  discussion  of  the  sev- 
eral topics  in  the  way  of  conversation  with  the  members 
of  the  class.  In  lecturing  on  some  subjects,  I  added  so 
many  extemporaneous  remarks,  in  the  way  of  explana- 
tion, that  what  I  had  written  for  one  lecture  was  made 
into  two. 

Experience  made  it  evident  that  the  freedom  which 
was  at  first  allowed  to  so  many  ardent  young  men  in  the 
Lecture  Room  required  some  check  in  order  to  preserve  it 
from  excess.  I  therefore  enjoined  it  as  what  belonged 
to  good  order  and  propriety  in  the  Lecture  Room,  that 
no  student  should  ask  questions  or  pursue  a  discussion  in 
a  disputatious  manner,  or  for-  the  purpose  of  carrying  a 
particular  point,  and  that  the  only  object  aimed  at  should 
be,  to  obtain  information  and  arrive  at  the  truth.  Another 
essential  principle  which  1  insisted  upon  was,  that  no  partic- 
ular discussion  should  be  protracted  to  such  a  length  as 
to  interfere  with  a  suitable  attention  to  the  whole  range 
of  subjects  falling  within  the  department. 

For  many  years,  it  was  the  rule,  that  four  or  five 
students  should  read  short  dissertations  on  the  subjects 
before  the  class,  extending  to  about  half -an -hour,  and 
that  the  remaining  time  should  be  occupied  by  free  re- 
marks from  the  Professor  and  the  students.  But  it  was 
a  fact  that  on  this  plan,  few  students,  except  those  who 
were  to  read  their  short  pieces  in  the  Lecture  Room,  could 
be  induced  to  write  dissertations  on  the  several  branches 
of  Theology.  It  was  also  found  that  the  brief  dissertations 
exhibited  in  the  Lecture  Room  were  often  so  much  alike, 
as  to  become  uninteresting  and  even  irksome  both  to  the 
readers  and  the  hearers.  Accordingly,  in  compliance  with 
the  wishes  of  the  students,  the  reading  of  short  dissertations 
was  given  up,  and  a  far  more  laborious  and  useful  ex- 
ercise was  introduced,  that  is,  the  careful  writing  of  dis- 
sertations of  some  length,  by  all  the  class,  on  all  the  larger 
divisions  of  subjects  in  Christian  Theology.  These  disserta- 


162       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

tions  I  examined  in  private,  and  made  minutes  of  remarks 
which  were  called  for,  and  which  I  afterwards  made  to 
each  individual  in  the  class.  The  business  of  examining 
and  criticising  so  many  dissertations  proved  to  be  very 
laborious;  but  the  students  regarded  it  as  promotive  of 
their  best  improvement. 

In  all  the  exercises  of  the  Lecture  Koom,  I  considered 
it  as  indispensable  to  a  proper  advancement  in  knowledge 
that  the  minds  of  all  present  should  be  kept  in  a  state 
of  the  most  wakeful  and  earnest  attention.  I  often  incul- 
cated the  maxim  that  the  extent  and  clearness  of  the 
knowledge  acquired  was  much  more  in  proportion  to  the 
excitement  and  activity  of  the  faculties,  than  to  the  length 
of  time  employed. 

It  was  commonly  the  case,  that  only  a  few  individuals 
were  disposed  to  be  free  in  asking  questions  and  stating 
objections  and  difficulties,  in  the  Lecture  Room,  the  greater 
part  being  kept  back  by  diffidence  from  joining  in  the  dis- 
cussions. This  appeared  to  me  very  undesirable,  and  I  took 
pains  to  encourage  all  the  members  of  the  class  to  overcome 
their  diffidence,  and  to  take  an  active  part  in  the  exercises. 
This  I  considered  important,  not  only  as  conducive  to  their 
present  improvement,  but  as  a  preparation  for  their  future 
usefulness  in  the  work  of  the  ministry.  My  endeavors  in 
this  respect  were  successful  only  in  part. 

The  shortness  of  the  time  allotted  to  the  whole  course  of 
Theological  study,  was  a  constant  hindrance  to  that  degree 
of  attention  which  every  particular  part  seemed  to  require. 
To  many  subjects,  on  which  we  could  have  profitably  spent 
several  months,  we  could  devote  but  a  few  days.  Indeed  it 
often  seemed  that  the  students  could  do  little  more  during 
the  year,  than  glance  at  the  several  parts  of  Theological 
science,  and  mark  out  a  plan  to  regulate  their  studies  in  after 
life.  But  even  the  short  time  allotted  to  the  different  topics 
proved  to  be  of  great  benefit  to  the  students.  Many  a  time 
did  they  inform  me,  that  the  lectures  and  the  attendant 


INTELLECTUAL    AND    SPIRITUAL    IMPROVEMENT.       163 

discussions,  on  the  inspiration  of  the  sacred  Scriptures,  on  the 
Divinity  and  humanity  of  Christ,  on  the  Trinity,  the  fallen 
state  of  man,  the  Decrees,  the  Atonement,  Regeneration, 
etc.,  had  removed  all  their  former  difficulties  and  established 
them  in  the  orthodox  faith.  And  this  result  was  the  more 
to  be  rejoiced  in,  when  there  had  previously  been  strong 
prejudices  against  the  doctrines  of  Calvinism. 

The  exercises  in  the  other  departments  were  conducted 
on  the  same  general  principles  with  those  in  Sacred  Litera- 
ture and  Theology,  varying  however  according  to  the  nature 
of  the  subjects  appropriate  to  each.  It  is  well  known  what 
were  the  chief  instructions  given  on  Sacred  Rhetoric,  as 
Dr.  Porter  published  the  different  and  very  valuable  series 
of  lectures,  which  he  delivered  to  the  Senior  Class.  In  the 
other  department  there  were  lectures,  recitations,  and  dis- 
cussions on  ecclesiastical  history  and  pastoral  duties. 

It  will  be  evident  to  every  one  who  is  competent  to 
judge,  that  the  whole  plan  of  study  in  the  Seminary,  and  all 
the  exercises  in  the  different  Lecture  Rooms,  were  adapted 
to  promote  the  growth  of  intellectual  knowledge  and  to  aid 
the  students  in  acquiring  the  qualifications  which  are  neces- 
sary to  a  minister's  usefulness.  And  if  there  were  essential 
deficiencies,  they  must  have  been  owing,  not  to  any  material 
faults  in  the  general  plan  of  instruction  and  study,  but  to 
the  shortness  of  the  time  allotted  to  the  regular  course,  or 
to  the  want  of  a  well-directed  diligence  among  the  students, 
or  of  ability  or  fidelity  in  the  Professors. 

But  while  we  attached  high  importance  to  literary  acqui- 
sitions, we  gave  a  still  higher  place  to  spiritual  improvement 
We  strove  to  make  the  impression  upon  those  who  became 
members  of  the  Seminary,  that  spiritual  religion  and  growth 
in  grace  should  be  their  paramount  object.  Within  a  few 
weeks  after  the  opening  of  the  Seminary,  I  proposed  a  meet- 
ing with  the  students  for  religious  conversation  and  prayer ; 
and  I  at  length  gained  the  consent  of  my  colleague,  that  I 
should  hold  a  meeting  with  the  students  for  religious  pur- 


164      HISTORY  OF  ANDOVER   THEOLOGICAL   SEMINARY. 

I  poses,  he  himself  choosing  not  to  be  present.  That  meeting, 
I  which  was  found  to  be  both  pleasant  and  profitable,  was  the 
beginning  of  the  Wednesday  evening  Conference,  which  became 
a  stated  exercise  in  the  Seminary,  and  proved  to  be,  as  we 
thought,  a  most  important  means  of  growing  in  grace  and 
in  the  knowledge  of  Christ,  both  to  ourselves  and  to  the 
students.  Never  can  I  forget  those  solemn  and  delightful 
seasons,  when  I  went  to  the  Conference  Room  with  Professor 
Stuart,  or  with  another  of  my  beloved  colleagues,  and  from 
the  fulness  of  our  hearts  spoke  to  our  pupils  on  the  great 
principles  of  our  holy  religion,  both  doctrinal,  experimental 
and  practical.  Many  a  time  did  Professor  Stuart  say  to  me, 
"  If  we  do  good  in  any  way  it  is  in  this  Conference."  And 
ministers  of  the  gospel  living  in  different  parts  of  the  country, 
and  missionaries  laboring  in  distant  heathen  lands,  have 
told  me  how  sincerely  they  thank  God  for  the  benefits 
they  experienced  from  the  Wednesday  evening  Conference. 
This  Conference,  which  was  a  subject  of  our  annual  re- 
ports to  the  Trustees  and  Visitors,  was,  in  the  judgment  of 
Dr.  Porter,  Professor  Stuart,  Dr.  Emerson  and  myself,  and 
also  of  all  the  Guardians  of  the  Seminary,  of  such  vital  con- 
sequence, that  I  cannot  satisfy  myself  without  describing 
it  more  particularly  and  fully.  It  was  a  settled  point  with 
us,  that  the  Conference  would  not  be  suited  in  the  best 
manner  to  promote  the  spiritual  interests  of  the  Seminary, 
unless  it  was  strictly  a  meeting  of  the  Professors  and  stu- 
dents. It  was  repeatedly  desired  by  families  in  the  vicinity, 
that  the  Conference  should  be  open  to  all  who  wished  to 
attend.  But  this,  we  knew,  would  be  a  restraint  upon  the 
freedom  of  our  address  to  our  pupils.  They  wished  for  our 
Christian  sympathy  in  their  outward  and  inward  trials,  and 
for  our  counsel  and  aid  in  regard  to  their  peculiar  duties  and 
dangers.  And  it  was  their  conviction,  as  well  as  ours,  that 
while  preaching  on  the  Sabbath  and  other  public  services 
were  indispensable,  there  ought  to  be  one  exercise  every 
week  appropriate  to  them  as  Theological  students.  And 


INTELLECTUAL    AND    SPIRITUAL    IMPROVEMENT.       165 

this  conviction  was  more  and  more  confirmed  by  our  grow- 
ing experience. 

I  have  taken  from  my  manuscript  the  following  general 
but  imperfect  list  of  subjects  discussed  in  the  Conference. 

"1.  Intellectual  and  moral  improvement  as  objects  of  pursuit 
in  the  Seminary — moral  improvement  the  first  and  highest. 
2.  Directions  for  intellectual  improvement.  3.  Importance  of 
taking  care  of  the  health.  4.  Eight  use  of  time.  5.  Duty  of 
repentance  as  obligatory  on  Christians.  6.  Habitual  devotion. 

7.  Dispensations  of  Providence,  the  means  of  moral  discipline. 

8.  Love  to  the  souls  of  men  as  a  Christian  duty — how  to 
strengthen  and  manifest  it.     9.  Kevivals  of  religion — several 
Conferences  touching  the  nature  of  genuine  revivals — the 
means   of  promoting   them — cautions  to   be    observed — the 
work  of  the  Holy  Spirit — antecedents  and  consequences  of 
a  revival.     10.  Self-examination — treated  in  several  Confer- 
ences under  the  following  heads: — importance  of  the  duty — 
hindrances  to  the  right  performance  of  it — how  to  conduct  it 
— mistakes  to  be  avoided.     11.  Doubts  of  Christians  respect- 
ing their  own  piety — how  occasioned  and  how  to  be  removed. 
12.  Christian  hope,  its  nature,  grounds  and  influence.     13.  So- 
cial and  secret  prayer  compared — peculiar  advantages  of  each 
— both  should  be  united.     14.  Different  virtues  and  graces 
connected — all  alike  in  their  nature,  and  promote  each  other. 
15.  Brotherly  love — occasion  for  it  among  students — its  happy 
effects.     16.  Government  of  the  appetites  and  passions — aids 
to  the  duty — need  of  Divine  help.     17.  Regard  to  reputation 
as  a  motive  to  action — when  right  and  when  wrong.     18.  Con- 
quest of  easily-besetting  sins.     19.  Godly  sorrow — its  nature 
and  use.     20.  Duty  of  confessing  sin,  both  to  God  and  to 
man.     21.  Danger  of  little  sins,  so-called.     22.  Special  dangers 
of  theological  students,  as  ambition,  pride,  levity,  etc. — rem- 
edy for  these  evils.     23.   Eminent  holiness  to  be  earnestly 
sought.      24.   Declensions   in  religion — symptoms — causes — 
evils  consequent.     25.  Faith  as  a  principle  of  the  Christian 
life.     26.  Humility.     27.   Forgiveness  of  injuries.     28.  Love 


166       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

of  enemies.  29.  Keading  the  Scriptures  and  other  religious 
books.  30.  Strict  observance  of  the  Sabbath.  31.  Christian 
conversation  and  correspondence.  32.  Self-denial.  33.  Watch- 
fulness. 34.  Dependence  upon  God  practically  considered. 
35.  How  to  treat  doubts  and  difficulties  as  to  the  truths  of 
revelation.  36.  Living  near  to  God.  37.  Good  habits.  38.  A 
good  conscience.  39.  Indwelling  sin — its  power,  deceitful- 
ness  arid  cure.  40.  Justification.  41.  Importunity  in  prayer. 
42.  Grieving  the  Spirit.  43.  Eight  example — specially  im- 
portant in  ministers." 

These,  and  such  as  these,  were  the  subjects  of  the  Con- 
ference for  the  winter  term,  often  presented  in  different  forms 
and  with  occasional  topics  intermixed.  We  aimed  not  to 
repeat  the  same  subject  during  three  years.  Indeed  our 
range  of  subjects  generally  extended  over  six  or  seven  years. 
During  the  summer  term  we  conversed  on  subjects  bearing 
on  the  ministry,  such  as  the  nature  and  importance  of  the 
sacred  office — qualifications  for  it — its  many  and  arduous 
duties — difficulties  and  discouragements  of  a  minister — also 
his  encouragements  and  comforts — his  duty  to  doubting,  de- 
jected Christians — to  offenders  and  backsliders — to  children 
— to  the  afflicted,  the  sick,  and  the  dying — wise  distribution  of 
his  duties — importance  of  training  up  Christians  to  assist  him 
in  his  work — intercourse  with  other  ministers — attachment 
to  the  cause  of  Missions — plainness  and  fidelity  in  preaching 
— importance  of  an  affectionate  manner — how  to  treat  the 
thoughtless  and  those  who  are  under  conviction  of  sin — duty 
of  circumspection— great  worth  of  private  character — prepa- 
ration for  death. 

These  and  many  other  subjects  were  fully  discussed  dur- 
ing the  summer  term.  We  constantly  endeavored  to  adapt 
the  Conference  to  the  circumstances  of  our  pupils.  And 
many  a  time  did  they  tell  us  that  the  exercises  on  Wednes- 
day evening  led  them  to  search  their  hearts  more  carefully, 
and  to  conceive  with  greater  clearness  the  danger  of  self-de-. 
ception,  and  the  vast  importance  of  practical  godliness.  They 


INTELLECTUAL    AND    SPIRITUAL    IMPROVEMENT.       167 

said  the  familiarity  and  directness  of  our  remarks  made  them 
specially  impressive.  It  was  our  purpose  to  give  the  students 
the  benefit  of  all  we  had  learned  by  reading,  reflection,  and 
experience. 

We  found  the  Conference  the  most  interesting  and  useful 
when  conducted  in  the  manner  of  free  conversation,  rather 
than  in  the  way  of  a  studied,  formal  discourse,  or  a  set 
speech.  The  students  were  invited  to  ask  questions,  relative 
to  the  subject,  in  any  part  of  the  Conference;  and  also  to 
propose  to  us  in  writing  or  conversation,  any  subject  which 
they  wished  to  be  introduced  as  particularly  seasonable  and 
adapted  to  do  good  in  the  Seminary. 

Professor  Stuart,  during  the  last  years  of  his  life,  often 
said  to  me,  "  If  there  is  any  part  of  our  duty  as  Professors, 
which  we  can  remember  with  pleasure  on  a  dying  bed,  it  is 
what  we  did  in  the  Wednesday  evening  Conference."  And  in 
a  serious  review  of  the  time  I  spent  in  the  Seminary,  I  have 
a  perfect  conviction,  that  the  Conference  was  indispensable 
to  the  highest  moral  improvement  and  usefulness  of  the 
students,  and  that  the  omission  of  it  would  have  been  a 
great  loss  to  both  teachers  and  scholars.  And  when,  with 
my  present  convictions,  I  review  the  long  period  of  my  Pro- 
fessorship in  the  Seminary,  I  cannot  but  wish  that  I  had  still 
more  highly  estimated  the  value  of  the  weekly  Conference, 
and  of  the  other  methods  employed  for  promoting  experi- 
mental and  practical  godliness. 

Another  means  of  spiritual  improvement  which  was  mani- 
festly attended  with  the  Divine  blessing  was  the  Seminary 
Fast,  which  was  observed  once  in  each  term,  and  was,  we 
trusted,  such  a  fast  as  God  had  chosen.  I  cannot  easily  de- 
scribe the  deep  interest  which  the  Professors  and  students, 
for  many  years,  felt  in  the  exercises  of  that  occasion.  It  was 
anticipated  with  many  devout  feelings,  arid  was  observed 
with  deep  seriousness.  On  that  day  there  were  great  search- 
ings  of  heart,  and  humiliations  before  God,  and  there  were 
many  fervent  cries  to  Him  who  heareth  prayer;  and  there 


168       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

were  many  earnest  endeavors  to  subdue  indwelling  sin,  and 
to  grow  in  grace.  The  morning  was  devoted  to  secret  duties. 
At  ten  o'clock  there  was  a  general  meeting  of  the  students, 
or  a  meeting  by  classes,  for  free  conversation  and  prayer. 
At  noon  the  Professors  met  together  for  their  own  special 
good.  I  can  never  cease  to  remember  those  precious  meet- 
ings, and  the  delightful  and  heart-moving  exercises  in  which 
I  was  so  many  times  engaged  with  my  beloved  colleagues, 
Porter  and  Stuart,  who  have  now  gone  to  their  rest.  We 
unreservedly  opened  our  hearts  to  each  other.  We  sung  de- 
votional hymns.  We  made  confession  of  sin,  and  offered  up 
united  supplications  to  God,  for  ourselves,  that  He  would  par- 
don us,  and  sanctify  us,  and  make  us  faithful  unto  death ; — 
and  for  the  students,  that  God  would  graciously  dwell  among 
them,  and  furnish  them  for  the  sacred  work  before  them. 
If  we  ever  knew  the  blessedness  of  fraternal  love  and  fellow- 
ship, and  the  higher  blessedness  of  communion  with  our  God 
and  Saviour,  it  was  at  those  favored  seasons.  In  the  after- 
noon each  Professor  met,  for  an  hour,  with  his  own  class;  and 
our  object  was  by  kind  and  faithful  remarks,  accompanied  by 
prayer,  to  guard  our  pupils  against  temptation  and  danger, 
and  to  lead  them  resolutely  to  pursue  their  various  duties, 
particularly  their  religious  duties,  looking  unto  Jesus,  and 
relying  on  His  all-sufficient  grace. 

It  was  natural  to  expect,  that  such  seasons  of  self- 
examination  and  Christian  fellowship  and  prayer  would 
be  productive  of  good  fruits.  And  so  they  were  in  fact. 
There  generally  followed  a  more  tender,  subdued  feeling 
in  the  Seminary,  more  diligence  in  study,  a  more  consci- 
entious discharge  of  all  the  duties  prescribed  by  the  Laws, 
and  more  spirituality  of  mind. 

As  a  further  means  of  good  to  the  students,  we  recom- 
mended to  them,  what  we  had  found  so  useful  to  ourselves, 
that  is,  the  constant  practice  of  reading,  in  connection  with 
the  Scriptures,  the  most  sound  and  searching  books  on 
experimental  and  practical  religion,  such  as  the  works  of 


INTELLECTUAL   AND    SPIRITUAL   IMPROVEMENT.      169 

Owen  on  Spiritual-mindedness,  and  on  the  130th  Psalm, 
Baxter's  Saints'  Rest,  Edwards  On  the  Affections,  Doddridge's 
Rise  and  Progress,  The  Life  of  Brain erd,  and  the  works 
of  Howe  and  Leighton.  It  was  our  deliberate  opinion  that 
theological  students  could  not  neglect  this  kind  of  read- 
ing, without  experiencing  an  essential  loss  both  as  to  their 
present  advancement  in  holiness,  and  their  future  useful- 
ness in  the  ministry. 

With  a  view  to  the  spiritual  benefit  of  the  Seminary, 
we  adopted  the  practice,  to  a  considerable  extent,  of  con- 
versing privately  with  each  student  respecting  the  state  of 
his  own  heart.  For  many  years  I  invited  each  member  of 
my  class  to  spend  an  hour  with  me  in  a  free  interchange 
of  thoughts  on  the  duties,  the  conflicts,  and  the  comforts, 
of  the  Christian  life.  From  the  testimony  of  many  students, 
as  well  as  from  my  own  experience,  I  was  led  to  consider 
those  unreserved  and  devout  interviews  as  eminently  con- 
ducive to  improvement  in  spiritual  things. 

I  kept  the  same  object  in  view  in  my  Lectures  on 
Systematic  Theology,  frequently  giving  a  practical  devo- 
tional turn  to  the  subject  under  consideration.  I  also 
invited  the  students  to  apply  freely  to  me  whenever  they 
wished  for  conversation  on  the  concerns  of  the  soul.  This 
invitation  many  complied  with,  and  either  in  my  study 
or  in  a  retired  walk  revealed  to  me  their  doubts  and  fears 
respecting  their  own  piety,  or  the  difficulties  and  discour- 
agements with  which  they  had  to  contend,  on  questions 
of  duty  which  they  were  not  able  to  solve. 

It  might  be  supposed,  that  a  society  of  educated  and 
pious  young  men,  pursuing  together  the  most  sacred  studies, 
meeting  every  day  for  devotional  exercises,  and  in  the 
enjoyment  of  such  peculiar  privileges,  preparing  for  the 
holy  work  of  the  ministry,  would  make  constant  and  rapid 
progress  in  the  divine  life.  And  this  was  indeed  not  un- 
frequently  the  case.  But  it  was  here,  as  it  is  elsewhere, 
that  there  was  a  constant  tendency  to  backsliding  and 


170       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

declension  in  religion.  But  a  merciful  God  interposed 
from  time  to  time  to  revive  the  languishing  spirit  of  piety. 
When  Divine  grace  thus  visited  the  Seminary,  there  was, 
in  consequence,  the  humble  and  contrite  heart,  there  was 
brotherly  love,  there  was  the  spirit  of  prayer,  and  delight 
in  duty.  The  soul  thirsted  for  God,  and  aspired  after  the 
beauties  of  holiness.  Delightful  seasons!  when  light  from 
above  shone  upon  us  and  we  were  constrained  to  say, 
"The  Lord  is  here." 

As  a  help  to  more  intimate  acquaintance  with  the  stu- 
dents, it  was  my  habit  for  many  years,  to  invite  the  mem- 
bers of  my  class,  generally  six  at  a  time,  to  a  social  meal 
with  my  family.  At  the  close  of  the  evening  prayers  in 
the  Chapel  I  read  from  the  roll  of  members  the  names  of 
the  gentlemen  next  in  order,  and  they  usually  accompanied 
me  to  my  home.  I  have  often  in  later  years  heard  the 
students  remark  on  these  visits  as  exceedingly  pleasant 
and  profitable,  and  thank  me  for  them. 


CHAPTER  XL 

DUTIES  OP  THE  TRUSTEES  AND  VISITORS  TO  THE  FACULTY,  IN 
ACCORDANCE  WITH  THE  STATUTES. 

No  true  and  satisfactory  history  of  the  Theological 
Seminary  can  be  written,  without  referring  to  the  im- 
portant duties  required  of  the  Trustees  and  Visitors  by 
the  Statutes  of  the  Founders. 

The  Constitution  provides  that  "all  the  Professors  and 
officers  in  the  Seminary  shall  be  under  the  immediate  in- 
spection and  government  of  the  Trustees."  And  they  are 
authorized  to  make  any  additional  regulations  which  they 
may  deem  necessary,  to  carry  into  effect  the  general  pro- 
visions of  the  Constitution  and  Statutes.  In  meeting  their 
obligations,  the  Trustees  must  see  that  the  Professors  faith- 
fully do  their  duty ;  must  call  them  to  account  for  anything 
amiss  in  their  teachings  or  their  conduct;  and  must  en- 
deavor in  every  proper  way  to  guard  the  Institution  against 
the  evils  to  which  it  may  be  exposed,  and  to  promote  its 
highest  usefulness. 

In  executing  their  trust,  they  have  met  annually,  and 
more  frequently  when  circumstances  have  rendered  it  nec- 
essary, to  attend  to  the  concerns  of  the  Institution.  They 
have  made  additional  regulations.  They  have  taken  care 
of  the  funds  and  buildings  belonging  to  the  Seminary, 
and  have  watched  over  all  its  interests. 

In  the  year  1810  they  appointed  a  Committee  to  make 
inquiry  of  the  Professors  respecting  the  discharge  of  their 


172       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY. 

official  duties.  That  Committee  called  the  Professors  to 
appear  before  them,  and  began  to  put  questions  to  them, 
and  to  write  down  their  answers,  with  a  view  to  make 
report  of  them  to  the  Board.  But  the  Professors  objected 
to  such  a  mode  of  proceeding,  and  insisted  on  the  justice 
and  propriety  of  making  their  own  report  to  the  Guardians 
of  the  Seminary.  The  Trustees  acceded  to  this  proposal, 
and  it  became  the  settled  practice  of  the  Professors  to  make 
annually  a  joint  report  on  the  general  concerns  of  the  Sem- 
inary; and  for  each  of  them  to  report  as  to  his  own  depart- 
ment. Besides  this,  the  Trustees  occasionally  requested  the 
Professors  to  give  their  written  opinions  more  at  large  on 
particular  points  touching  the  welfare  of  the  Institution. 

The  following  are  the  more  important  instances  in  which 
the  Trustees  and  Visitors  have  exercised  the  supervision 
over  the  interests  of  the  Seminary  which  the  Constitution 
and  Statutes  enjoin. 

From  1820  to  1827  evils  of  a  serious  nature  were  found 
to  exist  in  the  Seminary,  threatening  its  peace  and  prosperity. 
These  evils  were  more  or  less  known  to  the  Board  from  their 
commencement.  But  in  1827  individual  Professors  made  a 
particular  statement  to  the  Board  of  the  unhappy  condition 
of  the  Seminary,  and  urgently  requested  the  Trustees  to 
make  inquiry  concerning  the  existing  evils,  and  to  adopt 
proper  measures  for  their  removal.  Accordingly,  at  a  meet- 
ing of  the  Trustees,  Aug.  21,  1827,  a  committee  was  appointed 
to  inquire  into  the  state  of  the  Seminary,  particularly  in 
regard  to  difficulties  relative  to  one  of  the  Professors.  These 
difficulties  related  to  his  official  conduct,  but  did  not  affect 
his  Christian  character. 

On  the  ground  of  the  Report,  the.  Trustees,  acting  as 
Guardians  of  the  Seminary,  did,  on  the  18th  of  December, 
1827,  vote  to  remove  him  from  office. 

From  this  sentence  the  Professor,  as  was  his  right,  ap- 
pealed to  the  Board  of  Visitors  of  the  Institution.  At  a 
meeting  of  that  Board,  Sept.  25,  1828,  he  had  a  regular  trial 


DUTIES   OF    TRUSTEES   AND    VISITORS.  173 


with  the  aid  of  counsel.  After  a  patient  hearing,  the  Visi- 
tors approved  and  affirmed  the  act  of  the  Trustees  in  remov- 
ing him  from  office. 

From  this  decree  of  the  Visitors,  he  also  appealed  to  the 
Judges  of  the  Supreme  Court  in  Massachusetts.  At  the  No- 
vember term  (1828)  the  Judges  decided  that  they  had  no 
power  to  try  the  case  on  its  merits — that  they  could  only  re- 
view the  doings  of  the  Visitors,  and  determine  whether  they 
had  transcended  the  powers  given  them  by  the  Founders; 
or  had  violated  the  Statutes  of  the  Institution.  After  attend- 
ing to  the  arguments  of  the  counsel  on  both  sides,  the  Judges 
confirmed  the  decree  of  the  Visitors.1  This  case  contains  a 
full  recognition  by  the  Supreme  Court  that  the  Visitors  are 
lawfully  invested  with  the  powers  and  rights  conferred  upon 
them  by  the  Statutes  of  the  Founders  of  the  Institution;  and 
that  no  appeal  can  be  made  to  the  Court  for  a  new  trial 
upon  the  merits  of  the  case. 

At  a  subsequent  session  the  Court  gave  it  as  their  judg- 
ment that  the  dismission  of  the  Professor  from  office,  and 
the  cessation  of  his  salary,  took  place,  not  when  the  Trustees 
voted  to  dismiss  him,  but  at  the  time  when  the  Visitors 
approved  and  affirmed  their  vote. 

This  trial  also  shows  that  the  Trustees  have  no  authority 
to  remove  a  Professor  from  office  and  withhold  the  payment 
of  his  salary,  without  bringing  such  charges  against  him 
as  are  specified  in  the  Statutes  of  the  Founders,  and  giving 
him  a  fair  and  regular  trial  with  the  aid  of  counsel.8 

Another  case  occurred  which  is  worthy  of  notice.  For 
several  years  previous  to  1825,  the  feelings  of  the  Trustees 
and  of  the  religious  community  extensively  had  been  dis- 
turbed, and  serious  apprehensions  respecting  the  welfare  of 

'  See  reports  of  cases  determined  by  the  Supreme  Judicial  Court  of  Massa- 
chusetts, Vol.  VET,  2d  edition,  page  303. 

2  The  foregoing  account  has  been  read  and  approved  by  the  Professor 
above  mentioned. 

Bee  reports  of  cases  mentioned  above,  Supreme  Judicial  Court  of  Massa- 
chusetts, Vol.  XII.,  page  243. 


174       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

the  Seminary  excited,  by  the  degree  of  attention  which  the 
students  gave  to  the  writings  of  lax  and  infidel  writers  and 
commentators,  and  by  the  unhappy  effect  which  had  already, 
in  some  instances,  been  produced  upon  the  religious  opinions 
of  individuals,  and  upon  the  spiritual  state  of  the  Seminary. 
The  Trustees,  being  well  acquainted  with  the  general  facts 
in  the  case,  appointed  Dr.  Dana,  Samuel  Farrar  and  Dr.  J. 
Edwards,  as  a  committee  to  make  proper  inquiry  and  report 
on  the  subject.  The  committee  had  some  conversation  with 
the  Professors,  and  then  requested  each  of  them  to  state  in 
writing,  what,  in  his  view,  were  the  dangers  of  the  Seminary 
in  the  matter  above  mentioned,  and  what  remedies  should 
be  applied.  After  receiving  the  statements  of  the  Profess- 
ors, the  Committee  made  the  following  report,  which  was 
adopted  by  the  Board,  and  communicated  to  the  Faculty, 
to  wit: 

"  The  committee  appointed  to  confer  with  the  Faculty,  to 
inquire  whether  any  important  evils  have  been  found  by 
experience  to  result  from  the  free  cultivation  of  German  Lit- 
erature in  the  Seminary,  and,  if  this  shall  be  found  to  be 
the  fact,  to  point  out  the  means  by  which,  in  their  opinion, 
such  evils  may  be  mitigated  or  precluded — have  attended 
to  the  service  assigned  them  and  now  submit  their  Eeport. 

"  Your  Committee  deem  it  no  part  of  their  duty  minutely 
to  examine  and  characterize  the  theological  writings  of 
which  the  German  press  has  been  for  the  last  half  century 
so  remarkably  prolific.  It  may  be  sufficient  for  them  to 
advert  to  the  general  and  acknowledged  fact,  that  a  great 
portion  of  those  modern  German  authors,  who  have  occupied 
the  department  of  theology,  whether  as  lexicographers,  critics, 
scholiasts,  or  framers  of  religious  systems,  have  essentially 
innovated  on  all  previously  established  principles;  under  the 
general  profession  of  Christianity,  they  have,  in  various  modes, 
impugned  the  miracles  of  Scripture,  its  peculiar  doctrines,  at 
large,  and  even  its  claims  to  a  Divine  Inspiration.  Still  it 
is  admitted  that  on  many  points  of  science  and  literature, 


DUTIES    OF    TRUSTEES    AND    VISITORS.  175 

of  philology  and  natural  history,  these  writers  evince  much 
talent,  and  impart,  to  the  biblical  student,  much  valuable 
information. 

"This  brief  and  very  imperfect  statement,  while  it  intimates 
the  advantages,  suggests,  likewise,  the  dangers  of  the  studies 
in  question.  Of  all  the  forms  in  which  religious  error  pre- 
sents itself  to  the  aspiring  minds  of  youth,  none  are  so  insin- 
uating and  seductive  as  those  of  literature  and  philosophy. 
In  the  case  immediately  in  view,  the  danger  is  increased  by 
the  fact,  that  the  study  of  German  authors  occurs  principally 
at  the  very  commencement  of  the  theological  education  of 
our  pupils.  If  in  the  familiar  and  ardent  perusal  of  those 
writings,  the  most  matured  and  informed  minds  have  some- 
times been  shaken,  not  to  say  contaminated  and  poisoned,  it 
cannot  surely  be  expected  that  minds  comparatively  immature 
and  unfurnished,  should  pass  through  the  process  without  in- 
jury. These  natural  anticipations  have  been  realized  in  fact. 
In  a  very  free  conference  with  the  Faculty,  your  Committee 
have  learned,  that,  in  various  instances,  the  unrestrained  cul- 
tivation of  German  studies  has  evidently  tended  to  chill  the 
ardor  of  piety,  to  impair  belief  in  the  fundamentals  of  re- 
vealed religion,  and  even  to  induce,  for  the  time,  an  approach 
to  universal  scepticism.  But  on  this  subject,  at  once  delicate 
and  distressing,  they  forbear  to  enlarge.  Still  it  is  inevitable 
to  remark  that  evils,  of  this  serious  magnitude,  require  to  be 
counterbalanced  by  very  signal  advantages.  Do  the  studies 
in  question  present  advantages  of  this  imposing  character  ? 
Has  the  light  which  has  emanated  from  modern  Germany 
darted  conviction  into  the  minds  of  infidels  and  sceptics  ? 
Has  it  encircled  any  important  doctrine  of  the  gospel  with 
new  glory  ?  Granting  that  it  has  somewhat  illustrated  the 
natural  and  civil  history  of  the  Bible,  its  philosophy  and 
philology,  has  it  brought  forth,  from  a  previous  concealment, 
any  truth  essential  to  salvation,  or  powerfully  conducive  to 
holiness. 

"In  a  course  of  legal  study  the  pupil  is  ordinarily  directed, 


176      HISTORY  OF  ANDOYER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

not  to  writers  of  apocryphal  character,  not  to  writings  con- 
taining ingenious  and  inextricable  mixtures  of  truth  and 
error;  but  to  the  first  authorities,  to  the  great  standard 
writers,  in  whom  a  generous  confidence  may  be  reposed 
with  safety.  Can  it  be  less  important  that  the  student 
of  theology  should  draw  instruction  from  sources  the  most 
pure  and  uncontaminated  ? 

u  It  deserves  special  notice  that  no  small  portion  of  the 
German  writings,  in  use,  are  books  of  reference,  such  as 
lexicons,  commentaries,  etc.  If  these  writings,  which  are 
ordinarily  consulted  as  authorities,  are  of  erroneous  or  mixed 
character,  the  evil  is  very  extensive.  The  infection  which 
taints  the  fountain  will  too  probably  be  communicated  to 
the  streams. 

"  In  these  writings  there  is  an  additional  source  of  danger. 
If,  as  is  undeniable,  they  frequently  treat  the  most  sacred 
truths  of  our  religion  with  an  irreverence  bordering  on 
impiety,  their  influence  goes  to  corrupt  the  heart.  A  pious 
youth  would  not  choose  to  hold  familiar  and  daily  inter- 
course with  sceptical  and  profane  companions;  or  if  he 
should,  he  would  not  escape  from  the  scene  untainted.  The 
danger  would  not  be  diminished,  but  increased,  if  the  de- 
formities of  irreligion  were  gilded  by  the  art  of  sophistry 
and  fascinations  of  polite  literature. 

"Seriously  apprehending  that  the  evils  described  are 
incident,  in  a  greater  or  less  degree,  to  the  abundant  and 
promiscuous  study  of  German  authors,  your  committee  have 
conceived  it  a  sacred  duty  to  give  this  distinct  but  very 
brief  statement. 

"It  is  not,  however,  their  intention  to  propose  an  entire 
abandonment  of  these  studies.  Such  a  measure  might  be 
neither  practicable  nor  expedient.  There  is  much  reason 
to  believe  that  the  students  of  the  Seminary  have  an  exten- 
sive and  increasing  conviction  of  the  dangers  now  intimated; 
and  that  this  conviction  has  resulted  in  an  increase  of  caution 
in  their  intercourse  with  the  authors  specified.  This  is  an 


DUTIES    OF    TRUSTEES   AND   VISITORS.  177 

auspicious  omen.  And  it  remains  for  your  Committee  briefly 
to  suggest  some  additional  means  calculated  to  counteract 
the  evils  in  view. 

"  They  view  it  of  prime  importance,  that  the  members  of 
the  Seminary  should  be  frequently  reminded,  by  the  Profess- 
ors, of  the  inestimable  value  of  religious  truth,  and  of  the 
Bible,  as  its  great  source  and  standard;  of  the  reverence, 
meekness,  simplicity,  and  implicit  submission  which  should 
attend  all  their  inquiries  at  the  Divine  oracle;  of  the  utter  in- 
competence of  human  reason,  as  a  religious  guide,  and  of  the 
danger  of  listening  to  the  suggestions  of  infidel  philosophy. 
Nor  is  it  less  indispensable,  that  these  beloved  youth  should 
be  admonished  to  guard  their  hearts  from  the  intrusions  of 
unbelief,  by  cultivating  a  spirit  of  deep  and  humble  and  fervent 
piety,  and  by  devoutly  imploring  the  light  and  influence  of 
the  Spirit  of  God,  as  the  only  effectual  security  against 
dangerous  and  fatal  error. 

"  Your  Committee  think  it  likewise  very  desirable  that 
the  Professors  of  Christian  Theology  and  of  Sacred  Literature 
should  freely  and  frequently  give  the  students  their  maturest 
advice  respecting  the  books  in  their  respective  departments 
most  proper  to  be  studied,  distinguishing  between  those 
authors  whose  general  correctness  should  inspire  confidence, 
and  those  which  should  be  perused  with  a  degree  of  cautious 
interest.  In  the  case  of  writings  combining  much  acute- 
ness  and  learning  with  much  error,  the  time  of  a  Pro- 
fessor might  perhaps  be  profitably  employed  in  occasionally 
exposing  their  principal  aberrations  in  point  of  reasoning  or 
of  fact. 

"  In  offering  these  suggestions,  with  reference  to  Pro- 
fessors, your  Committee  would  be  far  from  intimating  a 
suspicion  of  any  defect  in  past  time.  It  is  with  satisfac- 
tion they  announce  to  the  Board,  that  in  the  leading 
views  they  have  presented,  both  of  existing  evils  and  dan- 
gers, and  of  the  remedies  proper  to  be  applied,  they  have 
the  decided  concurrence  of  the  Faculty.  And  they  think  it 


178       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

highly  important  that  those  gentlemen,  while  laboring  to 
preserve  uncontaminated  the  character  of  the  Seminary,  and 
the  minds  of  the  pupils,  should  feel  themselves  strengthened 
by  an  unequivocal  assurance  on  the  part  of  the  Trustees  of 
their  cordial  countenance  and  co-operation.  They  would 
have  it  well  understood,  both  by  the  members  of  the  Semi- 
nary and  the  whole  religious  public,  that  this  Board,  awake 
to  the  claims  of  their  high  and  sacred  trust,  awake  to  the 
demands  of  Zion,  and  of  the  age  in  which  they  live,  will 
spare  no  eifort  to  render  the  Institution  what  its  Founders 
intended  it  should  be — a  real  blessing  to  the  community,  an 
uncorrupted  witness  for  the  truth,  a  light  to  the  church  and 
to  the  world. 

"  In  conclusion,  your  Committee  would  remark,  that  from 
the  ample  materials  already  before  the  public,  there  might 
undoubtedly  be  compiled  a  commentary  on  the  sacred  Script- 
ures, which,  while  it  should  embrace  whatever  is  most  valu- 
able in  the  literature  and  criticism  of  German  writers,  should 
exclude  their  eccentricities  and  errors.  Such  a  work  cannot 
but  be  regarded  as  a  desideratum.  It  would,  under  Divine 
blessing,  accomplish  much  good  and  probably  prevent  much 
evil.  To  the  theological  students  of  this  and  other  seminaries 
it  would  save  an  incalculable  amount  of  precious  time.  And 
it  would  exempt  them  from  that  habitual  familiarity  with 
error  and  sophistry  which  has  sometimes  proved  fatal  to 
common  minds,  and  from  which  the  strongest  have  not 
always  escaped  without  essential  injury." — Andover,  Sept 
28,  1825. 

This  whole  proceeding,  as  related  above,  had  a  salutary 
influence  upon  the  vigilance  and  fidelity  of  the  Professors, 
and  upon  the  intellectual  and  moral  state  of  the  students. 

A  case  occurred  nearly  twenty  years  since,  in  which  the 
Trustees,  in  the  discharge  of  the  duty  devolved  upon  them 
by  the  Founders,  appointed  a  Committee  to  inquire  into  the 


DUTIES    OF    TRUSTEES    AND    VISITORS.  179 

opinions  contained  in  a  publication  of  one  of  the  Professors. 
That  Committee  examined  the  publication,  and,  in  a  written 
communication  to  the  Professor,  pointed  out  various  passages 
which  seemed  to  them  inconsistent  with  the  Confession  of 
Faith  to  which  he  had  given  his  assent.  This  they  did,  not 
to  bring  against  him  the  charge  of  heresy,  but  to  ask  of  him 
a  satisfactory  explanation  of  what  he  had  published,  and  to 
impress  upon  him  the  importance  of  guarding  against  any 
deviation,  real  or  apparent,  from  the  doctrinal  standard  ap- 
pointed by  the  Founders. 

In  this  way  the  Trustees  have  shown  a  faithful  regard  to 
the  highest  good  of  the  Seminary.  For,  in  truth,  what  is 
there  which  the  Constitution  and  Statutes  of  the  Founders 
represent  as  worthy  of  more  attention  than  the  religious 
faith  of  the  Professors,  and  the  manner  in  which  they  teach 
the  principles  of  Christianity  to  their  pupils  ?  If  the  Trus- 
tees and  Visitors  should  not  keep  an  ever-watchful  eye  upon 
the  concerns  of  the  Seminary  in  this  most  important  respect, 
—if  they  should  not  endeavor,  in  all  suitable  ways,  to  guard 
against  the  very  beginning  of  a  departure  from  the  doctrines 
contained  in  the  common  and  permanent  Creed  provided  by 
the  Founders, — a  door  would  be  opened  for  the  gradual  intro- 
duction of  gross  and  pernicious  errors;  and  the  character  of 
this  Seminary,  like  that  of  other  institutions  in  America  and 
in  Europe,  might  at  length  be  totally  changed,  and  the  best 
hopes  of  the  Founders  disappointed. 

As  this  is  a  matter  of  such  importance,  and  of  such 
difficulty  too,  it  is  most  reasonable  to  expect  that  every 
Professor  will  cheerfully  assist  the  faithful  efforts  of  the 
Trustees  for  the  welfare  of  the  Institution,  and  that  they 
will  be  truly  grateful  to  them  for  the  fidelity  with  which 
they  labor  to  execute  the  duties  of  their  sacred  trust. 

Here  I  might  be  charged  with  a  want  of  impartiality 
and  frankness  should  I  pass  over  in  silence  a  matter  which 
occurred  more  than  thirty  years  ago.  My  attention  has  of 
late  been  more  particularly  turned  to  the  subject,  on  ac- 


180       HISTORY  OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

count  of  its  connection  with  this  part  of  the  History  of 
the  Seminary. 

My  letters  to  Unitarians,  published  in  1820,  contain  sev- 
eral passages  which  I  now  look  upon  with  regret,  and  would 
here  openly  retract.  I  there  say, 

"  In  Scripture  the  word  impute  signifies  uniformly,  if  I 
mistake  not,  charging  or  reckoning  to  a  man  that  which 
is  his  own  attribute  or  act."  .  .  .  "We  are  not  fully  satisfied 
with  the  language  used  on  this  subject  in  the  Assembly's 
Catechism.  Though  we  hold  that  Catechism,  as  a  whole, 
in  the  highest  estimation,  we  could  not,  with  a  good  con- 
science, subscribe  to  every  expression  it  contains  in  relation 
to  the  doctrine  of  original  sin."  ..."  We  receive  the  Cate- 
chism generally,  as  containing  a  summary  of  the  principles 
of  Christianity.  But  that  the  sinfulness  of  our  fallen  state 
consists,  in  any  measure,  in  the  guilt  of  Adam's  first  sin, 
is  what  we  cannot  admit  without  more  convincing  evi- 
dence" (See  Letter  6).  Before  I  wrote  these  passages  I 
had  repeatedly,  in  presence  of  the  Trustees,  made  a  declara- 
tion of  my  faith  in  "that  form  of  sound  words,  or  system 
of  evangelical  doctrines,  drawn  from  the  Scriptures,  and 
denominated  the  Westminster  Assembly's  Shorter  Cate- 
chism"; and  had  promised  to  maintain  and  inculcate  the 
Christian  faith,  as  summarily  expressed  in  that  Catechism. 
I  had  not  said,  I  believe  and  will  teach  the  doctrines  of  the 
Catechism  generally,  or  as  a  whole,  or  for  substance.  What  I 
had  professed  to  believe  and  had  promised  to  maintain,  was 
the  system  of  doctrines,  as  expressed  in  the  Catechism.  I  had 
done  it  without  making  or  implying  any  exception. 

Now  I  must  acknowledge  that  the  passages,  above 
quoted  from  my  "Letters,"  are  manifestly  inconsistent  with 
my  professed  belief  and  my  promise,  as  a  Professor.  And 
on  reflection  I  cannot  but  think  it  strange,  that  the  Trustees 
did  not  exercise  the  same  watchful  fidelity  in  this  case,  as 
they  did  afterwards  in  the  cases  above  referred  to;  and 
that  neither  they  nor  the  Visitors  ever  admonished  me  for 


DUTIES   OF   TRUSTEES   AND   VISITORS.  181 

doing  what  was  so  plainly  at  variance  with  the  Constitu- 
tion of  the  Seminary. 

It  was  indeed  a  fact,  which  I  was  happy  to  know,  that 
the  Guardians  of  the  Seminary  had  confidence  in  my  ortho- 
doxy and  fidelity.  But  this  on  my  part  was  a  reason  why 
I  should  have  been  the  more  watchful  against  delinquen- 
cies and  mistakes.  And  on  their  part  it  was  no  reason 
why  they  should  neglect  their  duty  to  the  Institution  and 
to  me.  It  was  rather  a  reason  why  they  should  have  taken 
serious  notice  of  the  impropriety  of  what  I  had  published, 
and  should  at  once  have  called  my  attention  to  my  sacred 
obligations  as  a  Professor.  They  should  have  labored  to 
preserve  me  from  disregarding,  or  seeming  to  disregard, 
the  standard  of  doctrine  and  duty  to  which  I  was  bound 
to  conform. 

It  is  true  that  faithful  friends  in  the  Board  and  out  of  the 
Board  did,  of  their  own  accord,  privately  suggest  to  me  their 
dissatisfaction  with  the  passages  above  quoted  from  my 
Letters,  and  desired  me  to  give  the  subject  a  farther  and 
more  careful  consideration.  This  I  did.  And  a  more  par- 
ticular examination  of  the  Scriptures  and  of  the  best  unin- 
spired writings,  together  with  free  conversation  and  corre- 
spondence with  men  of  different  habits  of  thinking,  gradually 
satisfied  me,  that  the  fault  on  my  part  consisted  chiefly  in 
overlooking  the  true  and  authorized  meaning  of  the  words 
impute  and  guilt,  and  in  giving  to  them  a  sense  different  from 
that  in  which  they  were  used  by  standard  Calvinistic  Di- 
vines. The  result  was,  that  I  became  fully  satisfied  with  all 
the  doctrines  of  the  gospel  as  expressed  in  the  Assembly's 
Shorter  Catechism.  And  it  would  have  been  happy  for  me, 
had  I,  at  an  earlier  period,  gone  through  with  a  careful 
examination  of  the  subject,  and  thus  been  preserved  from 
the  mistakes  and  inconsistencies  above  noticed. 

The  immediate  care  and  instruction  of  the  students,  and 
the  execution  of  the  laws,  were  vested  in  the  Professors.  It 


182       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

was  their  ordinary  practice  to  hold  a  regular  weekly  meeting 
on  Saturday  at  1  o'clock  P.  M.  And  it  was  their  standing- 
rule  to  open  the  meeting  with  prayer.  For  nearly  twenty 
years  the  Professors  presided  by  turns  both  in  their  private 
meetings,  and  on  all  public  occasions.  But  in  1827  the 
Trustees  and  Visitors,  with  the  full  concurrence  of  the  Fac- 
ulty, instituted  the  office  of  President,  and  called  Dr.  Porter 
to  fill  that  office  in  addition  to  his  office  as  Professor.  And 
he  continued  to  hold  both  offices,  until  1832  when,  in  conse- 
quence of  great  and  growing  infirmities,  he  resigned  the 
office  of  Professor,  still  retaining  the  office  of  President  to 
the  close  of  his  life. 

The  appointment  of  such  a  man  as  Dr.  Porter  to  hold  the 
office  of  President,  connected  with  that  of  Professor,  pre- 
vented the  inconvenience  which  had  resulted  from  a  frequent 
change  of  the  presiding  officer,  and  had  a  very  favorable 
influence  on  the  business  of  the  Faculty  and  the  order  of 
the  Seminary. 

It  is  manifestly  of  the  first  importance  to  the  maintenance 
of  good  order  in  such  an  Institution  as  this,  that  the  officers 
should  be  of  one  mind.  If  dissension  and  strife  should  be 
found  among  them,  what  could  be  expected  but  a  serious 
injury  to  all  the  interests  of  the  Seminary?  But  if  the 
officers  unitedly  exert  their  influence  for  the  improvement 
of  the  students,  and  the  support  of  order;  who  can  doubt 
that,  with  the  Divine  blessing,  their  efforts  will  be  successful  ? 
This  was  happily  the  case  in  this  Seminary. 

The  nature  and  objects  of  the  Institution,  as  well  as  its 
Statutes  and  Laws,  require  that  the  government  should  be 
paternal.  In  a  good  degree  it  was  so  from  the  beginning. 
But  the  mode  of  administering  the  government  was  some- 
what various.  At  times  the  Faculty  made  efforts  to  execute 
the  Laws  with  great  exactness  and  with  some  degree  of 
vigor,  and  to  maintain  order  by  the  direct  exercise  of  their 
official  authority.  But  although  they  made  this  attempt  with 


DUTIES    OF    TRUSTEES    AND    VISITORS.  183 

the  kindest  dispositions,  and  in  the  kindest  manner,  the 
result  did  not  answer  their  expectations.  The  members  of 
the  Seminary  were,  with  few  exceptions,  graduates  of  Col- 
leges, and  had  generally  passed  their  minority;  and  many  of 
them  had  been  themselves  employed  as  teachers.  Hence  it 
was  unpleasant  and  sometimes  irksome  to  them  to  be  brought 
under  regulations  which  were  minute  and  exact,  and  under 
a  supervision  which  was  constant  and  visible.  It  better 
accorded  with  their  feelings,  that  their  Instructors  should 
watch  over  them  less,  and  confide  in  them  more.  Some  of 
them  really  thought  it  just  and  right  that  they  should  be 
allowed  to  judge  for  themselves,  how  frequently  it  was 
proper  for  them  to  omit  the  devotional  services  of  the  Chapel, 
morning  and  evening,  and  the  daily  exercises  of  the  Lecture 
Room,  and  be  absent  from  the  Seminary;  and  if  by  an  act 
of  authority,  or  the  force  of  law,  they  were  hindered  from 
following  their  own  convictions  in  these  respects,  they  made 
it  a  subject  of  complaint.  And  so  it  is,  that  when  young 
men  are  held  under  a  government  which  is  very  strict  and 
unbending,  it  evinces  an  uncommonly  dutiful  and  pious 
temper,  if  some  degree  of  resistance  is  not  waked  up,  at 
least  in  their  feelings,  and  if  the  multiplication  of  offences 
does  not  follow.  On  this  subject  experience  taught  us  useful 
lessons. 

It  taught  us  that  the  amount  of  irregularities  and  offences 
is  likely  to  be  quite  as  large,  to  say  the  least,  under  a  system 
of  uncommon  strictness,  as  under  a  system  of  lenity  and 
reasonable  indulgence, — and  that  the  exercise  of  kindness 
and  confidence  tends  to  produce  an  effect  in  the  minds  of 
students  far  more  favorable  to  their  intellectual  and  moral 
improvement,  than  the  exercise  of  a  rigid  authority.  We 
also  learned  from  experience  that  the  undue  multiplication  or 
frequent  change  of  laws  tended  to  an  increase  of  offences; — 
and  also  that  the  formal,  official,  and  authoritative  annuncia- 
tion of  laws,  was  not  well  suited  to  the  nature  of  the  Institu- 
tion, and  had  a  tendency  to  render  them  unwelcome  and 


184       HISTORY  OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

distasteful,  and  if  it  did  not  beget  a  spirit  of  murmuring  and 
rebellion,  that  it  secured  at  best  only  a  reluctant  and  partial 
obedience.  We  found  that  the  better  way  was,  to  give  a 
copy  of  the  printed  laws  to  each  student  for  his  own  private 
perusal  before  his  matriculation ;  and  when  any  new  regula- 
tion was  made,  to  suggest  it  informally  to  each  class  in 
the  Lecture  Koom,  or  to  refer  to  it  at  the  weekly  Conference 
in  some  apt  connection,  as  what  the  Trustees  thought  con- 
ducive to  the  good  of  the  Seminary.  When  the  Professors 
took  suitable  pains  in  the  general  Conference  and  in  occa- 
sional remarks  to  their  respective  classes,  and  in  conversation 
with  individuals,  to  inculcate  the  importance  of  attending 
regularly  to  their  various  duties,  and  of  guarding  against  all 
unnecessary  absences,  the  students  in  general  were  disposed 
to  discharge  their  duties  with  a  cheerful  diligence  and  punc- 
tuality, and  to  do  all  in  their  power  to  promote  the  order  and 
prosperity  of  the  Seminary. 

When  individuals  of  unexceptionable  deportment  applied 
for  leave  of  absence,  it  was  found  expedient  to  give  them 
permission,  kindly  and  unhesitatingly,  and  in  a  manner  that 
showed  confidence  in  their  good  intentions.  If,  however,  any 
one  was  absent  with  uncommon  frequency,  and  for  slight 
reasons,  or  was  in  any  respect  chargeable  with  irregularities, 
it  was  deemed  best  to  take  some  suitable  occasion  to  converse 
with  him  in  private,  and  to  apprise  him  distinctly  and  seri- 
ously of  the  hurtful  effects  of  the  course  he  was  pursuing. 
In  such  a  case  the  kindness'  and  indulgence  exercised  tow- 
ards him  naturally  prepared  him  to  receive  faithful  admoni- 
tion and  counsel,  gratefully,  and  to  profit  by  it. 

Finally,  it  was  evidently  of  essential  consequence  to  the 
order  and  prosperity  of  the  Seminary,  and  especially  to  the 
promotion  of  piety,  that  the  officers  should  cherish  in  their 
hearts,  and  manifest  in  all  their  conduct,  the  sincerest  friend- 
ship towards  the  students,  and  an  earnest  desire  for  their 
improvement  and  usefulness;  that  they  should  always  be 
disposed  to  notice  and  approve  what  was  right  in  them;  to 


DUTIES    OF   TRUSTEES    AND    VISITORS.  185 

excuse  what  was  excusable ;  and  as  far  as  might  be  consistent 
with  fidelity,  to  overlook  what  was  faulty;  and  that  they 
should  in  all  respects  pursue  such  a  course  of  conduct  tow- 
ards them  as  would  secure  their  cordial  attachment  and  re- 
spect. In  this  way  the  connection  of  officers  and  students 
was  generally  rendered  useful  and  happy,  and  the  good  of 
the  Seminary  effectually  promoted. 


CHAPTER   XII. 

DUTIES    OP    THE    PROFESSORS    TO    EACH    OTHER. 

ACCORDING  to  the  Statutes  of  the  Founders,  it  devolves 
upon  each  of  the  Professors  to  mark  out  the  course  to  be 
pursued  in  his  own  department,  both  in  public  and  private 
lectures;  and  to  the  Professors  together  to  determine  what 
proportion  of  the  time  should  be  occupied  with  study  in  each 
department — to  arrange  the  exercises  so  as  to  avoid  inter- 
ference and  confusion,  and  then  submit  the  result  of  their 
thoughts,  consultations  and  experience  to  the  Trustees  and 
Visitors. 

A  variety  of  methods  were  introduced  and  tried  by  the 
Professors,  but  after  a  few  years  it  was  agreed  that  the  de- 
partment of  Sacred  Literature  should  occupy  the  substance 
of  the  first  year;  Christian  Theology,  including  Natural  The- 
ology, the  second  year;  and  the  departments  of  Sacred  Rhet 
oric  and  Ecclesiastical  History  the  third  year. 

The  speaking  exercise  on  Wednesday  afternoon,  the  Con- 
ference on  Wednesday  evening,  the  Rhetorical  Society  on 
Thursday  evening,  and  some  other  exercises,  were,  however, 
intermixed  with  the  general  course  pursued. 

For  a  considerable  time  public  lectures  were  delivered  to 
all  the  classes  of  students  together,  on  the  plan  of  completing 
the  course  within  the  term  of  three  years.  But  it  was  found 
that  this  plan  of  public  instruction  was  attended  with  great 
disadvantages,  as  the  public  lectures  delivered  in  this^way 


DUTIES  OF  PROFESSORS  TO  EACH  OTHER.     187 

would  seldom  correspond  with  the  particular  studies  which 
any  of  the  classes  were  attending  to  at  the  time,  and  would 
generally  interfere  with  these  studies.  Thus  the  lectures 
would  conduce  little  to  their  improvement 

For  example,  a  lecture  would  be  delivered  on  the  "  Char- 
acter and  Work  of  Christ,"  to  all  the  students,  while  perhaps 
some  of  them  were  learning  Hebrew  grammar,  or  the  rules 
of  exegesis;  others  perhaps  had  previously  attended  to  the 
subject  of  the  lecture  in  their  regular  course  of  private  study, 
and  were  then  attending  to  the  positive  institutions  of  Chris- 
tianity; while  others  still  might  be  occupied  with  Whately's 
Rhetoric,  or  with  Church  History. 

To  avoid  this  inconvenience,  I  adopted  the  plan  of  deliv- 
ering all  my  lectures  to  the  class  who  were  engaged  in  the- 
ological study,  making  their  private  studies  to  correspond 
with  the  public  lectures.  In  this  way,  instead  of  spreading 
my  lectures  through  three  years,  I  delivered  them  all  in  each 
successive  year.  This  was  indeed  an  increase  of  my  labor, 
but  a  greater  increase  of  benefit  to  the  students. 

The  other  Professors  afterward  adopted  nearly  the  same 
method.  But  it  was  arranged  that  the  Junior  Class  should 
devote  Saturday  to  introductory  subjects  in  the  Theological 
department;  the  Middle  Class,  the  same  time  to  Sacred  Lit- 
erature. Thus  the  principal  business  of  each  class  was,  in 
substance,  begun  and  finished  in  one  year,  instead  of  being 
intermingled  with  the  studies  of  the  other  departments,  and 
extended  through  the  whole  term  of  three  years.  Different 
arrangements,  we  were  sensible,  had  their  advantages;  but 
our  experience  had  taught  us  to  prefer  the  one  above  described 
as  the  most  simple,  the  most  convenient  for  both  Professors 
and  students,  and  conducive  to  the  highest  improvement. 

After  more  than  fifteen  years  a  question  arose  as  to  the 
order  in  which  the  different  departments  should  be  arranged. 
This  question  occasioned  a  new  discussion  among  both  the 
Professors  and  Guardians  of  the  Seminary.  All  however 
agreed  that  the  study  of  the  sacred  Scriptures  and  the  rules 


188       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

of  exegesis,  ought  to  precede  Christian  Theology,  and  both 
these  the  business  of  writing  sermons.  But  as  to  the  place 
which  should  be  assigned  to  Ecclesiastical  History  there  was 
some  disagreement.  On  the  one  side  it  was  thought  that  the 
knowledge  of  Ecclesiastical  History  is  an  important  means 
of  understanding  the  doctrines  of  revelation.  On  the  other 
side  it  was  admitted  that  the  right  understanding  of  the 
Scriptures  in  many  instances  requires  an  acquaintance  with 
the  history  of  the  Jews  and  other  nations  previous  to  the 
times,  and  at  the  times,  when  the  Scriptures  were  written. 
But  how,  it  was  asked,  can  the  history  of  the  subsequent  opin- 
ions and  actions  of  men  help  us  to  determine  the  sense  of 
the  sacred  writings?  Such  a  history  may  indeed  furnish 
striking  illustrations  and  exemplifications  of  various  doctrines 
of  the  Bible ;  for  example,  the  doctrine  of  man's  depravity,  the 
necessity  of  Divine  influence,  the  efficacy  of  prayer,  etc.  But 
if  we  should  undertake  to  expound  the  Scriptures,  espe- 
cially those  parts  which  involve  subjects  more  remote  from 
the  common  range  of  human  thought,  by  the  various  clash- 
ing opinions  and  unauthorized  practices  which  have  pre- 
vailed among  Christians  since  the  Apostolic  age,  we  should 
be  greatly  perplexed,  our  faith  might  be  unsettled,  and  we 
might  fall  into  many  hurtful  errors.  It  is  necessary  there- 
fore that  all  men,  particularly  the  young,  should  have  their 
minds  informed  and  settled  in  regard  to  the  doctrines  of  our 
religion,  by  carefully  searching  the  Scriptures  themselves, 
before  they  can  with  profit,  or  even  with  safety,  go  through 
the  labyrinth  of  opinions  and  controversies  found  in  the 
history  of  the  church.  As  the  Bible  itself  is  our  sufficient  and 
only  guide  and  standard,  our  first  business  is,  to  learn  what 
doctrines  are  taught  in  that  sacred  volume  taken  as  a  whole. 
And  this  can  be  done  most  successfully  by  pursuing  the 
study  of  the  Bible  itself,  without  being  embarrassed  by  any 
inquiry  respecting  the  opinions  of  earlier  or  later  uninspired 
writers.  For  what  can  the  mere  opinions  of  fallible  men  do 
towards  determining  the  sense  of  the  inspired  volume  ? 


DUTIES    OF    PROFESSORS    TO    EACH    OTHER.  189 

After  becoming  grounded  and  settled  in  regard  to  the  faith 
once  delivered  to  the  saints,  from  a  careful  study  of  the  word 
of  God,  we  shall  find  it  exceedingly  interesting  and  instructive 
to  take  a  survey  of  the  Christian  Church,  and  to  see  how  the 
human  mind  has  developed  itself,  in  the  various  circumstances 
in  which  it  has  been  placed,  since  the  publication  of  the  gos- 
pel. Ecclesiastical  History  teaches,  with  great  clearness  and 
force,  the  lessons  contained  in  other  history,  and  brings  out 
new  and  important  lessons  respecting  the  designs  and  methods 
of  Divine  providence,  and  the  diversified  operations  of  the 
human  mind. 

In  accordance  with  the  general  principles  above  stated,  in 
which  the  Trustees  agreed  with  Professors  Porter,  Stuart  and 
myself,  the  department  of  Ecclesiastical  History  was  placed  in 
the  order  of  studies  after  Christian  Theology. 

An  arrangement  -was  once  proposed,  which  should  bring 
the  students,  during  the  first  and  second  year,  to  attend  the 
exercise  in  the  department  of  Sacred  Rhetoric,  in  addition  to 
the  weekly  practice  of  speaking.  And  to  this  no  objection 
was  made,  provided  such  exercises  should  occupy  only  a  mod- 
erate portion  of  time,  and  should  not  interfere  with  the  atten- 
tion and  interest  called  for  in  the  study  of  Sacred  Literature 
and  Christian  Theology.  But  it  was  found  that  as  the  students 
had  attended  more  or  less  to  rhetorical  exercises  while  at 
College,  and  as  they  were  engrossed  with  their  other  studies, 
they  felt  but  little  interest  in  those  lighter  exercises  in  Rhet- 
oric, and  indeed  that  they  could  not  turn  aside  to  engage  in 
them  at  all,  without  reluctance.  And  it  was  on  the  whole 
evident  that  nothing  was  likely  to  be  done  to  any  good  pur- 
pose, unless  it  was  at  the  time  made  an  object  of  special  im- 
portance, and  pursued  with  ardor.  And  after  all  the  exper- 
iments which  were  tried,  it  appeared  that  the  Professor  of 
Sacred  Rhetoric,  like  the  other  Professors,  would  rather 
choose  that  the  students  should  do  whatever  they  had  to 
do  in  his  department,  except  the  speaking  exercise,  during 
the  time  in  which  the  business  of  his  department  was  made 


190       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

a  primary  object.  It  is  doubtless  as  true  in  that  department 
as  in  any  other,  that  what  is  done  well,  must  be  done  with 
the  undivided  strength  of  the  mind.  No  Professor  can  exert 
that  power  over  his  pupils,  which  will  contribute  to  their 
highest  improvement,  unless  his  department,  for  the  time 
being,  holds  the  first  place,  and  his  influence,  as  an  instruc- 
tor, is  unchecked  by  other  objects  of  attention. 

The  real  importance  of  all  the  departments,  no  one  can 
call  in  question.  But  it  was  a  difficult  point  to  determine 
their  comparative  importance,  and  especially  the  proper  length 
of  time  to  be  employed  in  each.  The  fact  that  all  the  depart- 
ments are  provided  for  in  the  Constitution  of  the  Founders, 
and  by  the  appointment  of  Professors,  does  not  by  any  means 
imply,  that  the  studies  to  be  pursued  in  the  several  depart- 
ments are  of  equal  consequence,  and  certainly  not  that  the 
same  portion  of  time  ought  to  be  assigned  to  each  of  them. 

After  the  question  as  to  order  of  arrangement  among  the 
departments,  had  at  the  period  referred  to  undergone  a  new 
examination,  the  Professors,  except  one,  were  confirmed  in 
the  opinion  that  the  arrangement  formerly  made  should  be 
continued,  namely;  that  the  first  year  should  be  substan- 
tially devoted  to  Sacred  Literature;  the  second  to  Christian 
Theology;  and  the  third  to  Sacred  Rhetoric  and  Ecclesiastical 
History,  afterwards  including  Pastoral  Theology. 

Although  the  different  Professors  have  an  obvious  and 
important  relation  to  each  other,  and  their  labors  tend  to 
one  common  result,  it  is  still  true  that  their  departments  of 
instruction  are  distinct;  and  that  the  Constitution  limits  each 
of  them  to  an  appropriate  class  of  duties.  It  is  very  natural 
to  suppose  that  the  good  sense  of  the  Professors  and  their 
respect  for  each  other  will  be  sufficient  to  keep  them  with- 
in the  respective  province  of  instruction,  and  to  guard  them 
against  interfering  with  the  duties  which  are  appropriate  to 
each  one ;  accordingly  it  would  be  unreasonable  to  suppose 
that  there  can  be  any  occasion  for  a  formal  stipulation  among 
them  as  to  the  principles  to  be  observed  in  this  matter,  or  for 


DUTIES    OF    PROFESSORS    TO    EACH    OTHER.  191 

any  question  on  the  subject  except  what  is  solved  at  once  by 
a  reference  to  the  Constitution  of  the  Seminary.  And  the  fact 
was  that  the  labors  of  the  Professors  proceeded  with  great 
harmony,  each  one  finding  more  than  he  could  do  in  his  own 
department,  and  often,  both  in  the  Lecture  Koom  and  in  pri- 
vate conversation  with  students,  waiving  this  and  that  partic- 
ular subject  and  referring  it  to  another  department.  And  if 
at  any  time  a  Professor  was  led  by  the  ardor  of  his  feeling  to 
pass  over  the  exact  boundaries  of  his  own  department  and  to 
debate  on  subjects  which  belonged  more  appropriately  to  the 
province  of  other  Professors,  instead  of  charging  him  with 
an  offensive  interference,  they  were  grateful  for  his  aid.  And 
if  there  was  a  slight  difference  of  opinion  among  them  on 
some  matters  of  speculation,  it  was  generally  over-looked  and 
forgotten  in  their  cordial  agreement  on  the  great  principles 
of  revelation. 

But  after  a  quarter  of  a  century,  some  remarks  of  the 
students  and  of  ministers  of  the  gospel,  and  some  conversa- 
tion among  the  Professors,  suggested  the  idea  of  the  de- 
sirableness of  an  unreserved  expression  of  their  views 
on  this  subject.  Such  an  expression  of  their  views,  it 
was  thought,  would  be  perfectly  proper,  and  of  good  ten- 
dency in  future  time,  and  what  each  Professor  would  nat- 
urally wish  for,  on  his  own  account.  Being  requested  to 
undertake  the  business,  I  prepared  a  statement,  which,  after 
being  carefully  revised,  was  approved  by  the  Professors. 
The  statement  was  as  follows, — 

"1.  All  the  departments  of  instruction  have  a  common 
object,  that  is,  to  prepare  young  men  to  be  pious,  sound, 
able,  and  successful  ministers  of  the  gospel.  It  is  the  duty 
of  each  Professor,  in  connection  with  his  colleagues,  to 
endeavor  to  accomplish  this  great  object. 

"  2.  There  is  a  manifest  adaptedness  in  each  department 
to  promote  the  object  of  the  other  departments.  This  adapt- 
edness, in  some  of  the  departments,  is  direct  and  essential. 
For  example,  the  study  of  exegesis  is  directly  conducive 


192       HISTORY   OF   ANDOYER    THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY. 

to  the  object  of  Christian  Theology,  and  both  of  these  help 
to  prepare  young  men  for  the  business  of  writing  and 
preaching  sermons,  which  is  the  immediate  object  of  Sa- 
cred Ehetoric.  (The  same  is  true  in  a  measure  of  all  the 
departments.) 

"  3.  It  is  a  fact  not  only  that  one  department  is  adapted 
to  promote  the  object  of  other  departments,  but  that  the 
business  of  some  of  the  departments  does  more  or  less 
involve  the  business  of  others.  Professors  in  different  de- 
partments must  in  many  instances  go  over  the  same  ground, 
— must  do  substantially  the  same  thing.  The  Professor 
of  Sacred  Literature  must  teach  Theology,  and  the  Pro- 
fessor of  Theology  must  be  conversant  with  exegesis.  The 
Professor  of  Ecclesiastical  History  passes  over  the  ground 
of  Theology,  especially  Polemic  Theology;  and  when  he 
teaches  Pastoral  Theology,  he  has  to  do  with  Christian 
Theology  in  its  practical  bearings.  And  the  Professor  of 
Sacred  Khetoric,  while  aiding  the  students  in  the  impor- 
tant business  of  writing  sermons,  is  continually  concerned 
with  the  principles  of  Theology.  It  is  perfectly  obvious 
that  different  Professors  must,  in  one  way  or  another,  pass 
over  the  same  ground.  No  one  of  them  can  possibly  ac- 
complish the  business  of  his  own  department  without  hav- 
ing to  do,  more  or  less,  with  what  belongs  to  other  de- 
partments. And  yet, 

"4.  The  departments  are  manifestly  distinct,  and  each 
one  has  its  appropriate  business.  Although  there  is  one 
great  object  common  to  them  all,  each  one  has  an  object 
peculiar  to  itself.  For  example.  The  Professor  of  Sacred 
Literature  teaches  Theology,  but  teaches  it  in  the  way  of  ex- 
egesis. He  teaches  the  doctrines  of  religion,  not  in  a  didactic, 
systematic,  or  polemic  manner,  but  in  an  exegetical  manner. 
The  Professor  of  Theology  has  to  do  continually  with  the 
interpretation  of  the  Bible,  not  for  the  purpose  of  exegesis 
or  criticism  in  the  restricted  or  scientific  sense,  but  for  the 
purposes  of  didactic,  systematic,  controversial  and  practical 


DUTIES  OF  PROFESSORS  TO  EACH  OTHER.     193 

Theology.     The    Professor   of  Ecclesiastical   History   comes 
into  contact  with   Exegesis  and  Theology  both,  not  in  the 
way  of  directly  teaching  either  exegesis  or  Theology,  but 
in   the   way   of   showing   what   opinions   have   at   different 
times    been    entertaine.d    respecting    the    interpretation    of 
the    Scriptures,    and    the    various    doctrines   and    duties   of 
religion,  together  with  the  reasons  which  have  been  given 
for   those   opinions,   and  the   consequences  which   have  re- 
sulted   from    them.     The    Professor   of   Sacred    Rhetoric    is 
closely  connected  with  exegesis  and  Theology.     It  is  not, 
however,  his  appropriate  object  to  teach  his  pupils  directly 
and  systematically  the  principles  of  exegesis,  or  the  doctrines 
of  revelation,  but  to  assist  them  in  teaching  these  doctrines, 
in  a  proper  manner,  to  others.     He  is  to  treat  the  principles 
of  Christianity,  not  theologically,   scientifically,  or  polemically, 
but  homiletically  and  rhetorically.     Still,  when    he   comes  to 
the  business  of  superintending  and  guiding  the  students  in 
the  composition  of  sermons,  it  would  be  very  difficult,  if  not 
impossible,  to  limit,  by  any  particular  rules,  the  degree  of 
attention   he   ought  to  give  to  the  doctrines  of  Theology. 
And  any  one  who  seriously  considers  the  matter,  in  regard 
to  all  the  departments,  will  be  satisfied,  that,  after  a  general 
statement  of  principles,   it  must   be   left   to   the   discretion 
of  the  Professors.     If  they  possess  judgment,  and  propriety 
of  feeling,   they  will  not  transgress.     If  they  are  wanting 
in  these  important  qualifications,  the  result  will  be  different. 
"The  leading  and  appropriate  object  of  each  department, 
and   its  relation   to   other  departments,   may  be  summarily 
expressed  thus.     The  Professor  of  Sacred  Literature  teaches 
thus  the  science  and  art  of  interpreting  the  word  of  God. 
The  Professor  of  Theology  takes  the  results  of  exegesis  as  his 
groundwork,  and  builds  up  a  system  of  Christian  doctrines 
and  duties.     The   Professor  of  Ecclesiastical  History  shows 
how  the  principles  of  religion  have  been  regarded  by  the 
church    at    different    periods,    and    what    effects    different 
opinions    respecting    them    have    actually    produced.      The 


194       HISTORY   OF   ANDOYER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

Professor  of  Sacred  Rhetoric  shows  in  what  manner  the 
principles  of  religion  are  to  be  taught  to  all  classes  of  men. 
Christian  Theology  presupposes  the  knowledge  of  Sacred 
Exegesis,  and  rests  upon  it  as  its  basis;  and  Sacred 
Rhetoric  presupposes  the  knowledge  of  Theology,  and 
shows  how  its  various  truths  are  to  be  taught  by  the 
preacher. 

"5.  It  is  evident  that  every  Professor  is  liable  to  pass 
over  the  limits  of  his  own  department,  and  to  interfere 
with  the  appropriate  business  of  other  departments.  He 
may  do  this  inadvertently,  and  from  an  earnest  desire  to 
promote  the  improvement  of  his  pupils.  And  he  may  do 
it  intentionally,  but  this  is  hardly  to  be  expected.  A  Pro- 
fessor would  evidently  be  chargeable  with  such  an  inter- 
ference, if,  besides  referring  particularly  to  what  appropri- 
ately belongs  to  another  Professor,  and  making  it  subserve 
the  purposes  of  his  own  department,  he  should  formally 
enter  upon  it,  and  treat  it  at  large,  as  though  it  belonged 
appropriately  to  himself.  For  example.  Suppose  the  Pro- 
fessor of  Sacred  Literature  enters,  of  set  purpose,  into  a 
labored  discussion  of  a  doctrine  of  mental  philosophy  or 
Theology,  or  a  principle  of  Sacred  Rhetoric  or  Ecclesiasti- 
cal History.  Or  suppose  the  Professor  of  Theology  enters 
into  a  labored  discussion  of  a  principle  of  exegesis,  or  of 
a  difficult  point  of  Ecclesiastical  History,  or  of  a  question 
as  to  the  structure  or  delivery  of  a  sermon.  Or  suppose 
the  Professor  of  History,  when  he  comes  to  give  the  opin- 
ions of  particular  sects  on  the  doctrines  of  revelation,  not 
only  takes  occasion  briefly  to  point  out  the  mistakes  which 
have  been  made,  and  to  express  his  own  opinion  as  to 
the  merits  of  the  controversy,  but  goes  into  a  particular 
and  formal  discussion  of  the  doctrine  itself,  and  lectures 
upon  it,  just  as  would  be  proper  for  a  Professor  of  Theol- 
ogy. Or  suppose  the  Professor  of  Sacred  Rhetoric,  finding 
that  a  student  has  given  a  wrong  view  of  a  passage  of 
Scripture,  or  of  a  doctrine  of  Theology  or  mental  philosophy, 


DUTIES    OF    PROFESSORS    TO    EACH    OTHER.  195 

not  only  corrects  the  mistake  and  freely  sets  forth  what  he 
believes  to  be  the  truth,  but  goes  into  a  labored  discussion 
of  the  laws  of  exegesis,  or  the  principles  of  mental  philos- 
ophy or  Theology,  and  treats  of  them  at  large,  as  though 
they  belonged  to  his  own  department.  Anything  like  that 
which  has  now  been  supposed  would  be  marked  with  ob- 
vious impropriety.  And  as  the  Professors  are  continually 
brought  into  contact  with  the  departments  of  each  other, 
they  cannot  but  be  aware  of  their  exposure  to  a  greater 
or  less  degree  of  interference  with  each  other's  appropriate 
business. 

u  The  practice  of  interfering,  in  any  considerable  degree, 
with  each  other's  departments,  would  have  an  unpropitious 
influence  on  the  usefulness  of  the  Professors,  both  individually 
and  collectively,  and  on  all  the  interests  of  the  Seminary. 
This  influence  would  be  specially  unpropitious  and  hazardous 
if  the  Professors  should  inculcate  and  defend  different  and 
clashing  opinions  on  any  of  the  important  doctrines  of  Chris- 
tianity. And  it  would  in  some  cases  be  a  question  of  very 
difficult  solution,  how  far  a  Professor  should  strenuously 
maintain  opinions  which  he  conscientiously  believes,  in  op- 
position to  the  opinions  of  his  colleagues;  or  whether  to  avoid 
the  evils  of  strife,  he  should  pass  in  silence  over  the  subjects 
of  difference,  or  at  least  abstain  from  a  particular  discussion 
of  them.  One  thing  must  be  obvious  to  all;  that  is,  that 
some  special  respect  and  deference  is  always  due  to  the 
opinions  entertained  by  a  Professor  on  those  subjects  which 
fall  particularly  within  his  own  department. 

"  Against  any  evils  to  which  the  Seminary  may  be  exposed 
in  relation  to  this  subject,  there  are  various  safeguards. 

"  In  the  first  place,  the  Professors  all  subscribe  to  the  same 
Confession  of  Faith,  in  which  all  the  leading  and  essential 
principles  of  Christianity  are  set  forth.  Of  course  it  is  to  be 
taken  for  granted,  that,  in  regard  to  all  these  essential  prin- 
ciples, there  is  a  substantial  agreement  among  the  Professors. 
Every  Professor  must  be  supposed  honestly  to  embrace  the 


196       HISTORY   OF  ANDOYER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

doctrines  set  forth  in  the  above-mentioned  symbol.  So  that, 
although  there  may  always  be  smaller  differences  among  the 
Professors  in  their  habits  of  thinking  and  reasoning, — differ- 
ences which  may  be  not  only  safe  but  very  pleasant  in  their 
influence;  we  are  not  to  expect  any  differences  which  can 
be  regarded  as  of  essential  consequence. 

"  Another  safeguard  is,  that  the  Professors,  if  they  are  fit 
for  their  office,  will  be  sensible  of  the  magnitude  and  diffi- 
culties of  the  work  committed  to  them;  and  each  of  them 
will  most  heartily  desire  all  the  aid  which  can  be  consistently 
rendered  him  by  his  colleagues.  And  such  has  actually  been 
the  case  in  the  experience  of  the  Professors.  In  numberless  in- 
stances the  Professor  of  Theology  has  felt  and  openly  acknowl- 
edged, and  he  does  before  his  class  habitually  acknowledge, 
the  important  and  necessary  aid  afforded  to  the  business  of 
his  department  from  the  department  of  Sacred  Literature. 
And  although  anything  done  in  the  department  of  Theology 
would  not  so  naturally  be  supposed  to  contribute  to  the  objects 
of  Sacred  Literature ;  yet  so  it  is,  that  the  Professor  of  Sacred 
Literature  has  from  time  to  time  particularly  recommended 
to  his  class  the  Lecture  which  the  Professor  of  Theology 
published  on  Quotations. 

"This  last  case  presents  one  of  the  many  instances,  in 
which  different  Professors,  in  the  regular  discharge  of  their 
respective  duties,  may  properly  discuss,  yea,  may  discuss,  the 
same  topic — each  one  taking  care  to  do  it  for  the  purposes  of 
his  own  department.  The  manner  in  which  the  writers  of 
the  New  Testament  make  quotations  from  the  Old  Testament 
is,  it  is  well  known,  made  a  matter  of  objection  against  their 
Inspiration.  Accordingly  the  Lecture  referred  to  treats  the 
subject  of  quotations  in  its  bearing  upon  Inspiration]  a  subject 
which  belongs  to  the  department  of  Theology.  The  Professor 
of  Sacred  Literature  treats  the  same  subject  for  the  purpose 
of  a  just  exegesis  of  the  passages  quoted.  There  are  num- 
berless instances  of  the  same  kind.  It  is  indeed  a  great 
part  of  the  business  of  every  Profes'sor  to  take  up  subjects 


DUTIES    OF    PROFESSORS    TO    EACH    OTHER.  197 

which  appertain  more  or  less  to  other  departments,  and  to 
handle  them  with  special  reference  to  the  objects  of  .his  own 
department. 

"  Another  safeguard  is  the  fraternal  respect  and  love  which 
the  Professors  have  felt  and  must  always  be  supposed  to  feel 
for  each  other,  and  their  desire  to  render  each  other  respec- 
table, useful,  and  happy.  With  that  state  of  mind  which  the 
Professors  ought  to  possess,  there  will,  in  all  probability,  be 
no  real  interference  with  each  other's  proper  department. 
Or  if  there  should  occasionally  be  some  interference,  good, 
rather  than  evil,  would  be  likely  to  result  from  it. 

"Again:  It  is  obvious  that  each  Professor  must  have  his 
hands  full,  and  more  than  full,  with  the  appropriate  duties 
of  his  own  office,  and  that  he  cannot  intrude  upon  the  proper 
business  of  his  colleagues,  without  a  manifest  neglect  of 
his  own. 

"Finally:  It  is  not  necessary  that  Professors  should  be 
over  strict  and  scrupulous  on  this  subject.  It  is  impossible 
to  draw  very  exactly  the  lines  which  divide  the  different  de- 
partments. And  if  there  is  a  little  too  much  freedom  now 
and  then,  where  is  the  harm  ?  The  thing  will  soon  work 
itself  right.  Should  we  make  particular  and  exact  rules  on 
this  subject,  the  labor  of  holding  ourselves  and  each  other  to 
a  strict  observance  would  probably  prove  to  be  a  far  greater 
evil  than  would  result  from  the  absence  of  such  rules.  Mu- 
tual respect  and  confidence  among  the  Professors  will  do 
more  to  keep  things  right  among  the  different  departments, 
than  any  attempt  to  regulate  them  by  a  formal  agreement." 


CHAPTER    XIII. 

RETROSPECTIVE    AND    PROSPECTIVE    VIEW    OF    THE    SEMINARY. 

IT  should  never  be  forgotten,  that  the  establishment  of 
this  united  Seminary,  and  all  the  good  resulting  from  it,  is 
owing  to  the  favor  of  God.  If  its  Guardians  and  Instructors 
have  wisely  and  faithfully  discharged  their  respective  duties; 
and  if  the  young  men  educated  here  have  been  qualified  in- 
tellectually and  morally  for  usefulness ;  if  they  have  been  suc- 
cessful in  their  labors,  whether  in  the  sacred  office,  or  in 
other  important  stations;  all  is  to  be  gratefully  ascribed  to 
the  ever-present  agency  of  our  Father  in  heaven.  While 
therefore  I  briefly  set  forth  the  principal  instances  of  good, 
which  this  Seminary  has  been  the  instrument  of  producing, 
I  only  set  forth  what  God  has  done.  To  Him  be  the  glory. 

I  begin  with  alluding  to  the  influence  which  this  Institu- 
tion has  exerted  upon  Classical  education.  In  many  cases, 
those  who  first  came  to  the  Seminary  were  found  very  defi- 
cient in  the  knowledge  of  the  learned  languages.  This  cir- 
cumstance led  us  to  a  fre.e  correspondence  with  Academies 
and  Colleges,  in  which  we  endeavored  to  show  the  importance 
of  elevating  the  standard  of  Collegiate  education,  particularly 
in  regard  to  the  learned  languages.  And  we  had  the  satis- 
faction of  witnessing  a  gradual  change  for  the  better.  An 
education  at  our  colleges,  for  the  last  thirty  or  thirty-five 
years,  has  been  widely  different  from  what  it  was  in  previous 
years,  particularly  in  classical  learning.  And  we  have  reason 


RETROSPECTIVE    AND    PROSPECTIVE    VIEW.  199 

to  think  that  this  Seminary,  in  connection  with  other  causes, 
had  its  share  of  influence  in  producing  this  result. 

The  existence  of  this  Institution,  which  soon  became  favor- 
ably known  to  the  community  at  large,  awakened  the  atten- 
tion of  pious  young  men  to  the  work  of  the  ministry,  and  proved 
an  effectual  motive  with  many  to  quit  their  secular  employ- 
ment and  seek  an  education  for  the  sacred  office ;  so  that,  in  a 
few  years,  the  number  of  candidates  for  the  ministry  wasgreatly 
increased.  And  the  increased  number  of  young  men  prepar- 
ing for  the  ministry,  together  with  the  circumstance  that  most 
of  them  were  in  want  of  pecuniary  means,  led  to  the  forma- 
tion of  THE  EDUCATION  SOCIETY.  In  establishing  that  impor- 
tant Society,  and  in  promoting  its  enlargement  and  usefulness, 
the  Professors  of  this  Seminary,  particularly  Dr.  Porter  and 
myself,  had,  for  many  years,  a  direct  and  special  agency. 

THE  AMERICAN  TRACT  SOCIETY  originated  here.  And  here 
its  principal  agents  had  their  training.  And  I  was  for  a 
time  employed  as  one  of  a  committee  to  solicit  funds  and  to 
prepare  tracts  for  circulation. 

It  is  well  known  what  influence  the  officers  of  this  Semi- 
nary had  in  forming  THE  AMERICAN  TEMPERANCE  SOCIETY,  and 
how  active  they  were  in  all  the  measures  which  conduced,  in 
one  way  or  another,  to  the  remarkable  and  happy  change 
which  has  taken  place  in  the  ministry  and  all  respectable 
society.  It  devolved  on  me  for  several  years,  as  Chairman 
of  the  Executive  Committee,  to  engage  well-qualified  agents, 
and  in  all  suitable  ways  to  co-operate  with  others  in  promot- 
ing the  object  of  the  Society. 

The  education  of  men  for  the  work  of  FOREIGN  MISSIONS 
was  from  the  first  regarded  as  a  prominent  object  in  the 
founding  of  this  Institution.  And  shortly  after  its  establish- 
ment, the  missionary  enterprise  here  commenced.  It  was 
here  that  the  young  men  devoted  to  that  benevolent  work 
studied  and  prayed,  and  formed  that  Missionary  Association 
which  was  called  the  Society  of  Inquiry,  and  which  exerted 
so  direct  and  so  necessary  an  influence  in  favor  of  Foreign 


200       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

Missions.  For  ten  years  all  who  were  sent  out  by  the  Amer- 
ican Board,  except  one,  were  educated  here.  And  in  thirty- 
eight  years,  above  a  hundred  went  from  this  Theological 
School  to  preach  the  gospel  to  the  unevangelized.  The  mis- 
sionaries who  have  gone  from  this  Seminary  into  different 
parts  of  the  world,  have  as  a  body  acquired  a  high  reputa- 
tion, not  only  in  the  places  where  they  have  labored,  but 
among  the  friends  of  missionaries  generally,  both  in  America 
and  Europe.  Their  intelligence,  zeal,  and  persevering  fidel- 
ity, have  given  character  to  the  missionary  enterprise  in  this 
country,  and  have  had  a  powerful  influence  in  awakening  the 
missionary  spirit,  and  advancing  the  missionary  cause.  We 
now  regard  our  widely-extended  and  prosperous  Foreign  Mis- 
sions as  among  the  most  precious  results  of  this  Institution, 
and  as  happily  accomplishing  the  desires  of  those  who  had 
a  principal  agency  in  its  establishment. 

More  might  be  said  upon  this  topic;  and  also  upon,  the 
deep  interest  which  has  been  felt  here  in  the  cause  of  HOME 
MISSIONS,  and  upon  the  large  number  of  laborers  who  have 
gone  from  this  place  into  the  destitute  parts  of  our  own 
country.  The  Lord  grant  that  the  spirit  of  Missions,  which 
has  been  so  predominant  in  this  Seminary,  and  has  exerted 
so  powerful  and  sanctifying  an  influence  here,  may  continue 
and  wax  more  and  more  fervent  and  efficacious  to  the  end 
of  time. 

A  considerable  number  of  the  Alumni  of  this  Seminary 
have  been  called  to  be  Presidents  in  our  Colleges,  and  a  still 
larger  number  to  be  Professors  in  Colleges  and  in  Theolog- 
ical Seminaries.  Many  have  been  Agents  or  Secretaries  of 
benevolent  Societies,  particularly  the  American  Bible  Society, 
the  American  Board  of  Commissioners  for  Foreign  Missions, 
the  American  Tract  Society,  the  American  Home  Missionary 
Society,  the  American  Temperance  Society,  the  Prison  Disci- 
pline Society,  and  the  American  Education  Society;  and  many 
sustain  the  office  of  Instructors  in  our  most  important  Acad- 
emies. But  the  greater  part  have  been  Pastors  of  churches 


RETROSPECTIVE    AND    PROSPECTIVE    VIEW.  201 

of  the  Congregational,  Presbyterian,  Baptist,  Episcopal  and 
Methodist  denominations,  and  are  so  spread  over  the  country 
as  to  be  connected,  often  in  large  proportions,  with  most  of 
our  clerical  and  ecclesiastical  bodies. 

It  is  one  of  the  most  remarkable  consequences  of  the 
establishment  of  this  Institution,  and  one  of  the  clearest 
proofs  of  the  great  value  attached  to  it  by  the  community, 
that  so  many  similar  Institutions  have  in  so  short  a  time  been 
founded.  These  Institutions,  not  less  than  fifty  in  number, 
belong  to  all  the  evangelical  denominations  in  our  country, 
and  have  contributed  to  increase,  in  no  small  degree,  the  lit- 
erary qualifications  of  gospel  ministers. 

I  shall  just  hint  at  another  important  result.  The  large 
number  of  men  educated  here,  with  their  higher  acquisitions, 
have  in  various  ways  contributed  their  share  to  the  improve- 
ment of  our  religious  literature.  This  improvement  appears 
in  the  character  of  our  larger  and  smaller  periodicals,  our 
pamphlets  and  our  volumes ;  and  keeps  pace  with  the  prog- 
ress made  during  the  last  fifty  years  in  other  departments  of 
human  affairs. 

The  men  who  have  gone  from  this  Seminary  have  been 
earnest  and  successful  advocates  of  popular  education,  and 
have  exerted  an  influence  for  the  multiplication  and  improve- 
ment of  common  schools,  Sunday  schools  and  Bible  classes, 
and  have  in  numberless  instances  been  successful  promoters 
of  revivals  of  religion. 

The  happy  effect  of  this  Institution  must  be  looked  for, 
primarily,  in  the  intellectual  and  spiritual  qualifications  of 
those  who  have  been  here  trained  for  the  ministry;  and,  sec- 
ondarily, in  the  good  resulting  to  others  from  their  faithful 
labors.  If  the  great  body  of  our  students  have  been  here 
taught  to  understand  and  explain  the  Word  of  God  correctly ; 
if  they  have  obtained  clear  and  consistent  views  of  Christian 
Theology ;  if  they  have  learned  how  to  detect  the  arts  of  er- 
ror, and  how  to  make  known  Jesus  Christ  and  Him  crucified 
—how  to  preach  so  that  man  may  be  brought  low  and  God 


202       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

alone  exalted ;  in  a  word,  if  they  have  been  effectually  taught 
how  to  be  wise  and  faithful  pastors  and  missionaries — how  to 
preach  and  live  so  as  to  save  themselves  and  those  that  hear 
them; — if  this  has  been  the  case,  and  so  far  as  it  has  been  the 
case,  the  Seminary  has  exerted  an  influence  of  great  intrinsic 
value  and  very  precious  in  the  sight  of  God.  And  this  good 
influence  of  Christian  ministers  and  missionaries,  of  teachers 
in  colleges,  seminaries  and  schools,  and  of  active  officers  in 
benevolent  societies,  is  by  no  means  limited  to  the  short 
period  of  their  labors  and  their  life,  but  will,  according  to  a 
merciful  ordinance  of  Heaven,  extend  to  succeeding  genera- 
tions, in  our  own  and  other  countries,  down  to  the  end  of 
the  world. 

If,  among  the  large  number  of  those  who  have  been  edu- 
cated in  this  Institution,  some  few  have  departed  from  the 
"  faith  once  delivered  to  the  saints,"  and  if  we  have  sorrowed 
over  a  few  who  have  fallen  into  gross  immorality  and  have 
been  degraded  from  the  sacred  office,  and  if  some  others  have 
turned  aside  more  or  less  from  the  Scriptural  doctrines  held 
by  our  learned  and  pious  fathers,  and  have  been  tainted  with 
the  philosophy  falsely  so  called,  of  either  ancient  or  modern 
origin; — this  is  only  that  mixture  of  evil  with  the  good  which 
is  to  be  expected  in  all  human  affairs,  even  in  the  best  works 
of  the  wisest  and  best  of  men.  Our  comfort  is  that  in  this 
case  the  good  so  far  exceeds  the  evil.  Who  that  takes  a  seri- 
ous view  of  all  the  support  which  has  been  given  to  evangel- 
ical truth,  and  the  abundance  of  blessings  which  have,  through 
the  favor  of  God,  come  to  our  own  country  and  to  heathen 
lands  from  this  School  of  Theology, — who  that  impartially 
weighs  this  large  amount  of  good  against  the  few  incidental 
evils,  will  not  rejoice  and  render  thanks  to  God  for  what  has 
been  done  on  this  consecrated  hill! 

Here  I  close  my  historical  sketch  of  the  establishment 
of  this  Institution,  of  the  Constitution  and  Statutes,  contain- 
ing the  provisions  of  its  Founders  and  Donors;  of  the  man- 


RETROSPECTIVE    AND    PROSPECTIVE    VIEW.  203 

ner  in  which  those  provisions  were  carried  into  effect; 
of  the  progress  which  the  Seminary  made  during  thirty- 
eight  years  from  the  time  of  its  public  organization;  and 
finally  of  its  principal  results.  The  history  has  exhibited 
the  benevolent  and  pious  efforts  of  those  distinguished 
men  who  contributed  the  funds  of  the  Institution;  the 
wisdom,  zeal  and  perseverance  of  the  agents  on  whom 
the  Founders  and  benefactors  relied,  and  the  doings  of 
the  Trustees,  Visitors  and  Professors  to  whom  the  conduct 
of  the  affairs  of  the  Seminary  was  committed.  The  agency 
of  man  has  been  made  conspicuous  throughout — an  agency 
exhibiting  Christian  uprightness  and  fidelity,  mingled  how- 
ever with  those  imperfections  and  failings  which  are  com- 
mon to  the  wise  and  good.  But  through  all  and  over  all 
we  delight  to  trace  the  good  hand  of  God,  which  shaped 
all  our  ends,  which  crowned  our  right  endeavors  with  a 
success  surpassing  our  most  elevated  hopes,  and  made 
even  our  imperfections  and  mistakes  the  means  of  accom- 
plishing the  precious  object  at  which  we  aimed.  God  was 
mercifully  present  with  those  generous,  active  friends  of 
the  Seminary  who  have  gone  to  their  rest.  All  their  pious 
thoughts,  purposes,  and  good  endeavors  were  from  Him. 
We  reflect  with  admiration  upon  all  the  way  in  which  God 
led  them,  arid  upon  all  the  happy  results  which  through  His 
blessing  have  followed  from  their  labors  and  sacrifices.  We 
honor  their  memory.  But  we  give  to  God  all  the  glory  of 
their  benevolence  and  their  success  in  doing  good. 

Having  thus,  with  joy  and  thanksgiving,  recounted  the 
events  which  have  taken  place  in  the  years  that  are  past, 
we  shall  turn  our  thoughts  to  the  future.  The  pleasing 
remembrance  of  what  has  been,  teaches  us  to  cherish  a 
pleasing  anticipation  of  what  shall  be.  The  unchangeable 
goodness  of  God,  which  has  been  so  signally  displayed 
towards  this  Seminary  in  past  time,  inspires  us  with  a 
cheering  hope  in  regard  to  the  future.  We  delight  to 


204      HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY. 

think  of  what  a  merciful  God  may  accomplish  here  long 
after  our  decease — of  the  heavenly  influences  which  may 
come  down  upon  this  school  of  the  Prophets — of  the  emi- 
nent faithfulness  and  success  of  Professors,  and  of  the  in- 
tellectual and  spiritual  attainments  of  increasing  numbers 
of  young  men  who  may  here  be  trained  up  for  the  work 
of  Christian  ministers  and  missionaries.  May  God  so  bless 
the  Seminary,  in  coming  time,  that  its  prosperity  in  pre- 
ceding years  shall  hardly  be  remembered  in  view  of  the 
greater  abundance  of  blessings  which  shall  be  here  enjoyed, 
and  in  view  of  the  more  glorious  triumphs  of  the  gospel 
that  shall  follow  the  labors  and  prayers  of  those  who  shall 
from  year  to  year  go  forth  from  this  sacred  Seminary.  It 
is  my  prayer  and  my  hope  that  the  Institution  which,  in 
connection  with  others,  I  took  so  much  pains  to  establish 
at  the  beginning  of  this  century,  and  in  which  it  was  my 
pleasing  office  for  so  many  years  to  teach  the  principles 
of  our  holy  religion — it  is  my  fervent  prayer  and  my  hope, 
that  it  may  exert  a  conspicuous  influence  in  bringing  all 
nations  under  the  peaceful  reign  of  Christ. 

But  who  that  has  been  attentive  to  the  lessons  of  history 
can  think  of  this  Seminary  for  the  next  fifty  and  the  following 
hundred  years  without  having  fears  mingled  with  his  hopes. 
If  any  man  should  say,  "I  do  not  fear,"  that  also  would  prove 
how  much  he  ought  to  fear.  I  now  speak  of  fear,  not  for 
any  local  or  temporary  reasons,  but  for  reasons  which  are 
of  weight  in  all  places  and  at  all  times.  I  would  utter  the 
language  of  fear  as  well  as  of  hope,  of  alarm  and  warning 
as  well  as  of  encouragement,  were  I  to  speak  of  any  other 
school  of  theology  in  this  land  or  in  any  other  land.  I 
proceed  on  the  common  principles  of  our  nature,  as  made 
known  by  universal  experience.  Forty-five  years  ago  I 
entered  on  the  duties  of  my  office  in  this  Seminary  with 
much  fear  and  trembling,  and  it  was  with  fear  and  trembling 
that  I  and  my  two  beloved  colleagues,  Porter  and  Stuart, 


RETROSPECTIVE    AND    PROSPECTIVE    VIEW.  205 

labored  together  for  so  many  years  to  accomplish  the  object 
of  this  establishment.  And  I  would  still  use  the  language 
of  fear  and  trembling,  and  talk  freely  of  dangers,  though 
every  Professor  in  the  Seminary  were  an  Edwards,  a  Calvin, 
or  an  Apostle.  For  what  would  become  of  an  Edwards, 
a  Calvin,  or  even  an  Apostle,  and  what  would  become  of 
a  Seminary  under  their  care,  unless  a  merciful  God  should 
continue  to  grant  His  illuminating  and  guiding  Spirit,  and 
check  the  power  of  unsanctified  reason,  the  desire  of  pre- 
eminence, and  other  unhallowed  principles.  How  soon 
would  the  best  friends  of  the  Institution  have  cause  to 
mourn  over  its  declensions !  For  do  we  not  know  that  all 
those  Institutions  which  have  in  times  past  been  founded  by 
human  wisdom  and  benevolence,  and  even  those  founded 
by  special  Divine  agency,  have  been  perverted  by  the  evil 
that  is  in  man  ?  We  ought  to  feel  this  in  our  inmost  heart, 
and  this  was  the  solemn  feeling  of  those  who  planned  and 
founded  this  Seminary — a  feeling  which  kept  hold  of  them 
from  first  to  last.  With  what  watchful  care,  with  what 
studied  exactness  and  unequalled  perspicuity,  did  they  make 
known  the  particular  doctrines  of  religion  to  be  here  taught; 
the  particular  errors  to  be  avoided,  and  the  great  work  to 
be  done !  With  what  solicitude  did  they  labor  in  all  pos- 
sible ways  to  guard  against  the  smallest  deviation  from 
their  design !  Those  enlightened  men  had  well  studied 
the  volume  of  inspiration  and  had  acquainted  themselves 
with  the  history  of  human  affairs.  They  remembered  the 
holy  Institutions,  the  sacred  Statutes  and  Laws,  which  God 
gave  to  the  children  of  Israel;  and  still  how  soon  corruptions 
crept  in,  and  to  what  fearful  height  they  rose.  They  remem- 
bered that,  in  the  time  of  Josiah,  the  Priests  and  Scribes, 
as  well  as  the  young  king,  even  forgot  that  they  had  the 
book  of  the  Law  in  the  Temple.  They  remembered  that 
idolatry  and  wickedness  increased  till  the  justice  of  heaven 
awoke,  and  swept  away  that  apostate  people  from  the 
land  of  promise.  They  remembered  that  the  Christian  re- 


206       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

ligion  was  planted  in  its  purity  by  Christ  Himself  and  His 
Apostles.  And  they  remembered  what  departures  from  its 
purity  at  once  began  to  appear,  and  what  error,  superstition 
and  vice,  like  a  cloud  of  thick  darkness,  overspread  the 
church  for  many  centuries.  They  remembered  the  Protest- 
ant reformation,  so  evidently  the  work  of  the  Divine  Spirit. 
And  they  remembered  how  deplorably  Protestant  Christen- 
dom has  strayed  from  the  path  marked  out  by  the  first 
Reformers; — and  how  far  it  has  failed  to  carry  out  its 
righteous  principles.  They  remembered,  too,  that  the  re- 
ligion of  the  Bible  was  planted  in  Plymouth,  in  Boston, 
in  New  England,  by  our  Puritan  ancestors;  and  they  looked 
abroad  and  said:  What  is  New  England  noiv,  compared  ivith 
what  it  was!  Finally,  they  remembered  that  school  of 
learning  and  religion,  consecrated  so  early  by  our  pious 
fathers  to  "  Christ  and  the  church,"  and  sustained  for  a  time 
by  the  labors  of  Mathers  and  Willards;  and  seeing  what 
departures  from  the  original  design  had  slowly  and  almost 
imperceptibly  taken  place,  they  exclaimed,  "  How  is  the 
gold  become  dim,  and  the  most  fine  gold  changed  "  !  These 
lessons  of  Scripture  and  of.  history  penetrated  the  hearts 
of  the  Associate  Founders.  And  I  well  remember  how  they 
were  at  times  greatly  discomposed  and  almost  disheartened, 
and  how  emphatically  they  exclaimed,  "  What  assurance  can 
we  have  that  the  Institution  we.  are  founding  will  be  kept  pure? 
What  assurance  that  error  will  not  come  in  by  little  and  little, 
and  that  the  hopes  we  have  fondly  cherished  will  not  by  and 
by  fall  to  the  ground?"  They  were  strong  men,  men  of 
cheerful  and  resolute  hearts,  and  always  inclined  to  hope. 
But  strong  and  full  of  hope  as  they  were,  they  were  not 
strangers  to  fear  and  trembling.  And  their  good  minister 
and  counsellor,  feared  and  trembled  more  than  they  did. 
And  so  did  I,  and  I  have  feared  and  trembled  ever  since, 
both  for  myself  and  for  others.  And  standing  as  I  do  on' 
the  threshold  of  eternity,  I  most  devoutly  wish  that  all  the 
present  and  all  future  Professors,  and  all  present  and  future 


RETROSPECTIVE    AND    PROSPECTIVE    VIEW.  207 

students,  and  all  the  Guardians  of  the  Seminary,  and  all 
its  friends  far  and  near,  may  fear  and  tremble  in  like  man- 
ner, and  may  never  cease  to  feel,  as  the  Founders  and  early 
teachers  and  Guardians  did,  that  they  can  put  their  trust 
only  in  God,  and  may  unitedly  arid  fervently  pray,  that  His 
almighty  grace  may  be  perpetually  the  help  and  shield  of 
this  "  School  of  the  Prophets." 

In  all  this  I  do  but  repeat  the  sentiments  uttered  by  one 
of  my  colleagues  almost  thirty-two  years  ago,  at  the  dedica- 
tion of  Bartlett  Hall.  This  is  the  language  of  warning  which 
he  used  on  that  public  occasion. 

"  It  may  indeed  be  said  of  us — that  we  are  exalted  to  heaven. 
If  we  fall,  we  shall  plunge  deep  in  perdition.  The  church 
may  take  up  a  lamentation  over  us,  and  say:  'Sons  of  the 
morning,  how  are  ye  fallen  from  heaven ! '  Every  pious 
heart  will  throb  with  bitter  anguish,  and  every  pious  eye  will 
weep  in  secret  places  with  bitter  disappointment  and  regret. 
If  we  sink,  we  shall  sink  to  rise  no  more;  sink  down  to  the 
abyss  where  the  Iscariot  band  who  have  betrayed  their  Master 
with  a  kiss  are  plunged.  And  in  view  of  this,  connected 
with  a  survey  of  our  duties  and  obligations,  our  feebleness 
and  imperfections,  we  are  constrained  to  cry  out:  'Who  is 
sufficient  for  these  things'?  'Lord,  save  us  or  we  perish  !  " 

The  Professor  then  proceeded  to  say,  "That  all  confi- 
dence in  regard  to  the  security  of  this  Seminary  from  de- 
fection in  doctrine  and  in  practice,  which  is  placed  in  the 
Constitution  and  Statutes,  or  in  any  of  the  present  Officers,  or 
in  the  protection  of  the  government  under  which  we  live,  is 
unavailing,  and  not  well  grounded.  This  Seminary  is  indeed 
consecrated  to  Christ  and  the  church ;  it  is  guarded  by  all  the 
ramparts  which  paper  Constitutions,  and  legislative  acts  and 
contracts,  can  erect.  So  have  others  been  that  are  now  ar- 
rayed against  the  faith  which  they  were  established  to  defend 
and  propagate.  Let  the  majority  of  our  Legislators  and 
Judges,  our  Trustees  and  other  officers  of  this  Seminary, 
once  come  to  view  the  principles  on  which  it  is  founded  as 


208       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

1   erroneous  or  superstitious,  and  all  our  paper  ramparts  vanish, 
at  the  first  assault." 

"  For  what  end,  you  may  ask,  is  such  an  attempt  to  create 
an  alarm?  My  answer  is  ready.  For  this  end;  that  you 
may  see  and  feel  that  the  safety  and  purity  of  this  Institu- 
tion depends,  after  all,  on  God  only;  and  be  led  suitably  to 
acknowledge  Him,  so  that  He  may  direct  our  paths.  Trust 
not  in  an  arm  of  flesh.  You  have,  and  from  the  very  nature 
of  the  case  you  can  have,  no  other  assurance  that  this  Semi- 
nary will  not  be  arrayed, the  very  next  generation,  against  the 
faith  which  it  now  inculcates,  but  the  protection  and  bless- 
ing of  Almighty  God." 

But  feelings  like  these  were  not  confined  to  Prof.  Stuart. 
I  seem  even  now  to  hear  the  solemn  voice  of  another  beloved 
colleague,  who  first  officiated  as  a  minister  of  Christ  in  our 
Chapel,  and  who  so  devoutly  dedicated  it  to  God.  "  Arise," 
he  said,  "0  Lord  God,  thou  and  the  ark  of  thy  strength. 
Let  thy  priests  be  clothed  with  salvation  and  let  thy  saints 
shout  for  joy."  On  that  joyful  occasion,  in  the  presence  of  the 
surviving  Founders,  in  the  presence  of  Visitors,  Trustees,  Pro- 
fessors and  students,  and  in  the  presence  of  God  and  His  Anointed, 
that  dear  brother  proceeded  thus  to  speak  out  the  fulness  of 
his  heart.  "  Is  it  reasonable  to  speak  of  danger  connected 
with  this  brilliant  career  of  prosperity  ?  Yes,  and  of  danger 
resulting  from  this  prosperity."  He  said  it  ten  years  after 
the  opening  of  the  Seminary.  He  reminded  us  if  we  for- 
get our  dependence,  and  ascribe  our  success  to  our  own 
doings,  God  will  rebuke  our  presumption.  He  said,  "  We 
must  not  imagine  that  this  Institution  is  free  from  danger, 
because  it  is  the  object  of  our  own  affection  and  vigilance. 
While  we  review  its  prosperity  with  cheering  anticipations, 
let  us  'rejoice  with  trembling.'  The  students  must  of  course 
be  familiar  with  error  in  all  its  forms, — error  as  defended  by 
its  ablest  champions — error  as  concealed  by  the  subtil ty  of 
scholastic  refinement,  and  associated  with  all  the  attractions 


RETROSPECTIVE    AND    PROSPECTIVE   VIEW.  209 

of  genius  and  erudition.  Besides,  every  human  heart  is  '  de- 
ceitful above  all  things.'  Where  then  is  our  certainty  of 
exemption  from  the  dangers  that  await  us  ?  In  the  strength 
of  our  own  powers  ?  In  the  elevated  motives  of  our  Founders? 
In  the  safeguards  of  our  Constitution  ?  Where  are  oilier  Sem 
inaries,  which  wisdom  encompassed  with  its  precautions,  and 
piety  consecrated  to  Christ  and  the  church?  Have  we  for- 
gotten,— can  we  forget  the  awful  lesson  furnished  to  Chris- 
tendom from  the  school  of  Doddridge  ?  from  the  schools  of 
Scotland,  of  Geneva,  and  of  Germany?  No,  brethren,  we 
are  not  safe  without  the  presence  of  God.  If  He  withdraws, 
the  spirit  of  piety  will  decline  here.  Instructors  and  stu- 
dents will  neglect  their  closets.  The  pure  word  of  God  will 
be  adulterated  by  unhallowed  and  adventurous  speculations; 
and  this  fountain  will  diffuse  streams  of  pollution  and  death. 
And  is  it  possible  that  a  day  may  come,  when  these  Lecture 
Rooms  and  this  library  will  be  converted  into  instruments  of 
hostility  to  the  truth  ?  When  these  avenues  will  be  trodden 
by  feet  that  are  strangers  to  the  way  of  holiness  ?  and  this 
chapel  and  this  pulpit  be  occupied  by  men  who  'deny  the 
Lord  that  bought  them  '?  Our  bosoms  throb  at  the  thought 
that  it  is  possible.  But,  should  such  a  day  come,  the  friend 
of  Jesus,  instead  of  lingering  with  delight,  as  he  passes  this 
hill  of  Zion,  will  cast  a  weeping  eye  at  this  Institution,  the 
offspring  of  faith  and  prayer,  forsaken  of  heaven.  The  graves 
of  its  benefactors  will  testify  against  it.  The  winds  that 
sweep  over  these  rocks  and  groves  will  testify  against  it.  The 
summits  of  yonder  mountains  will  testify  against  it.  The 
prayers,  and  vows,  and  tears,  of  this  day  will  testify  against 
it;  and  God  will  inscribe,  in  broad  characters,  on  the  walls  of 
this  Temple:  'THE  GLORY  is  DEPARTED.'" 

That  good  man,  however,  took  a  more  cheering  view  of 
the  subject.  "  We  will  cleave,"  he  said,  "  to  the  precious  and 
consoling  assurance,  that  God  is  able  to  guard  the  sacred 
interests  which  we  have,  this  day,  solemnly  committed  to  His 
care  and  benediction.  And  we  know  that,  if  He  is  pleased 


210       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

to  bless,  with  His  presence  and  influence,  this  beloved  Sem- 
inary, it  will  not  only  be  safe,  but  will  flourish,  the  light  and 
hope  of  ages  to  come.  Churches,  yet  to  be  formed,  will  look 
to  it  for  Pastors;  and  generations  of  Pagans,  yet  unborn, 
will  bless  the  name  and  memory  of  those  by  whose  instru- 
mentality it  was  established.  When  our  heads  shall  all  be  laid 
in  the  dust,  men  more  devoted  than  we  to  the  interests  of 
truth  and  piety  will  occupy  our  places;  more  fervent  prayers 
than  ours  will  ascend  from  this  Temple;  and  these  little  elms, 
that  now  bend  to  the  breeze,  will  spread  their  majestic  branches 
to  adorn  a  seat  of  sacred  learning  which  the  King  of  Zion  has 
delighted  to  honor." l 

Such  was  the  language  of  pious  hope,  and  such  the  lan- 
guage of  solemn  warning  and  fear,  uttered  so  many  years 
ago  by  those  beloved  Professors  whose  voices  we  can  hear 
no  more.  They  had  given  a  wakeful  attention  to  the  teachings 
of  God's  word  and  providence,  and  had  learned  the  instability 
and  downward  tendency  of  all  human  characters  and  all 
human  affairs.  They  well  knew,  as  we  also  know,  that  the 
frame- work  of  this  Institution  was  skilfully  planned,  and 
that  all  was  done,  which  man  could  do,  to  fortify  it  on 
every  side  against  the  approach  of  corruption  and  error.  A 
Confession  of  Faith,  unambiguous  and  unexceptionable,  con- 
sisting of  the  leading  truths  of  revelation  as  set  forth  in  that 
form  of  sound  words,  the  Assembly's  Shorter  Catechism, 
connected  with  the  Associate  Creed,  was  appointed  by  the 
Founders  to  be  the  unalterable  standard  of  instruction  in  the 
Seminary;  and  men,  worthy  of  public  confidence,  in  two 
distinct  Boards,  were  chosen  to  be  the  watchful  Guardians 
of  the  establishment.  But  the  Founders  never  indulged  the 
thought,  that  any  provisions  of  theirs,  however  wise  and 
multiplied,  could  afford  absolute  security.  It  was  their  se- 
rious conviction,  and  it  should  be  ours,  that  there  is  no  hope 
for  this  Seminary,  but  in  God.  He  is  our  defence,  the  only 
rock  of  our  confidence. 

i  See  sermon  of  Dr.  Porter,  at  the  dedication  of  the  Chapel,  Sept.  22,  1818. 


RETROSPECTIVE    AND    PROSPECTIVE    VIEW.  211 

As  I  arn  now  drawing  towards  the  close  of  this  historical 
sketch  and  towards  the  close  of  ray  earthly  existence,  I  would 
humbly  thank  God  that  He  has  continued  my  life  and  my 
health,  and  enabled  me,  in  compliance  with  the  wishes  of 
many,  often  expressed,  to  prepare  this  brief  and  imperfect 
account  of  this  Theological  Institution.  It  has  been  to  me 
a  source  of  inexpressible  delight,  to  look  back  upon  the  way 
in  which  the  hand  of  God  led  us  in  all  that  we  did  towards 
the  founding  of  this  Seminary;  to  remember  the  almost  end- 
less train  of  difficulties  which  we  had  to  encounter,  and  the 
many  opposing  influences  which  often  threatened  to  baffle 
all  our  designs;  and  yet  how  God  in  every  instance  seasona- 
bly came  to  our  help,  counteracting  opposing  influences,  and 
overcoming  difficulties; — to  remember  how  often  the  very 
things  which  we  regarded  as  lamentable  evils  were  made 
the  occasion  of  inestimable  good;  and  how  often  God  caused 
us  to  feel  our  own  ignorance  and  weakness,  that  we  might 
more  fully  trust  in  His  wisdom  and  omnipotence.  Let  it  be 
written  in  characters  never  to  be  erased,  that  the  first  con- 
ception in  the  minds  of  individuals,  of  such  an  Institution 
as  this,  was  of  God ;  that  He  gave  them  wisdom  to  form  the 
plan  of  it;  that  He  brought  into  its  treasury  the  free-will 
offerings  of  the  rich;  that  by  His  unforeseen  but  unerring 
and  effectual  agency,  He  directed  and  combined  the  con- 
flicting views  and  endeavors  of  short-sighted  men  to  the 
sure  accomplishment  of  a  wise  and  harmonious  object,  and 
that  amidst  our  weakness  and  mistakes,  our  discouragements 
and  fears,  this  all-controlling  Providence  led  on,  in  His  own 
time,  to  the  establishment  of  this  united  school  of  sacred 
science ;  and  that  He  has  made  it  the  source  of  blessings,  which 
have  been  to  the  glory  of  His  name,  and  to  the  abounding 
joy  of  His  people.  Yes,  all  the  benevolence  and  piety  of 
those  who  founded  this  Seminary,  the  precaution  and  judg- 
ment, the  patience  and  perseverance  with  which  they  were 
endued;  the  wisdom  displayed  in  their  Constitution  and  Stat- 
utes ;  the  soundness  of  their  religious  principles,  and  the  success 


212       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY. 

which  has  crowned  the  sacred  school  which  they  so  earnestly- 
labored  to  establish,  and  to  whose  continued  and  growing 
prosperity  they  so  nobly  contributed — all  this  amount  of 
good,  and  all  the  good  which  shall  result  from  this  favorite 
Institution  in  ages  to  come,  must  be  ascribed  to  the  all- 
controlling  agency  of  the  only  wise  God. 

But  I  must  close.  From  the  first  I  regarded  this  Insti- 
tution with  the  warmest  affections  of  my  heart.  And  for 
nearly  forty  years  it  was  the  object  of  my  most  intense  and 
anxious  thought.  No  other  object  on  earth  ever  produced 
within  me  so  lively  and  absorbing  an  interest.  Sincerely, 
though  with  great  and  lamentable  deficiencies,  I  devoted  to 
it  the  strength  of  manhood  and  the  labors  of  advancing  age. 
I  knew  from  experience  the  weight  of  a  Professor's  duties 
and  cares,  and  the  severity  of  his  trials.  And  I  well  knew 
too  what  it  was  to  be  encouraged  and  animated  by  the  esteem 
and  love  of  my  colleagues,  by  the  affection  and  prayers  of 
ministers  and  churches,  and  by  the  tokens  of  the  Divine 
'approbation.  And  now,  may  the  Lord  Almighty,  who  has 
been  the  unchangeable  Friend  of  this  sacred  school,  continu- 
ally grant  to  it  His  merciful  protection  and  presence.  May 
He  so  bless  its  Professors  and  Students  and  Guardians  with 
the  effectual  influence  of  His  Spirit,  that  they  may  faithfully 
pursue  the  momentous  object  for  which  this  Seminary  was 
placed  here,  and  may  carry  into  effect  all  the  provisions  of 
the  Constitution  and  Statutes  of  the  Founders,  without  the 
smallest  deviation  from  their  pious  design.  And  from  one 
year  to  another,  and  from  one  half  century,  and  one  century 
to  another,  may  the  Sun  of  Kighteousness  so  illuminate  this 
hill  of  Zion,  and  the  dews  and  showers  of  Divine  grace  so 
unceasingly  come  down  upon  it,  that  the  light  of  truth  and 
holiness  may  shine  here  with  increasing  brightness,  and  the 
fruits  of  the  Spirit  more  and  more  abound  to  the  glory  of 
God,  and  the  prosperity  and  joy  of  His  holy  kingdom. 


PART   SECOND. 


I. 

Act    of  Incorporation    of  Phillips 
Academy,  Andover. 

Whereas  the  education  of  youth  has  ever  been  considered 
by  the  wise  and  good,  as  an  object  of  the  highest  conse- 
quence to  the  safety  and  happiness  of  a  people,  as  at  that 
period  the  mind  easily  receives  and  retains  impressions,  is 
formed  with  peculiar  advantage  to  piety  and  virtue  and 
directed  to  the  pursuit  of  the  most  useful  knowledge;  And 
whereas  the  Honorable  SAMUEL  PHILLIPS  of  Andover  in  the 
county  of  Essex,  Esquire,  and  the  Honorable  JOHN  PHILLIPS  of 
Exeter  in  the  county  of  Buckingham  and  State  of  New  Hamp- 
shire, Esquire,  on  the  first  day  of  April  in  the  year  of  our  Lord 
one  thousand  seven  hundred  and  seventy  eight,  by  a  legal 
instrument  of  that  date,  gave,  granted  and  assigned  to  the 
Honorable  William  Phillips,  Esquire,  and  others  therein  named, 
and  to  their  Heirs,  divers  lots  and  parcels  of  land  in  said 
Instrument  described  as  well  as  certain  other  estate,  to  the 
use,  and  upon  the  trust  following,  Viz.,  That  the  rents,  profits 
and  interest  thereof  be  forever  laid  out  and  expended  by  the 
Trustees  in  the  said  Instrument  named,  for  the  support  of  a 
publick  free  School  or  Academy  in  the  town  of  Andover,  and 
whereas  the  execution  of  the  generous  and  important  design 
of  the  grantors  aforesaid  will  be  attended  with  very  great  em- 
barrassments, unless  by  an  act  of  incorporation  the  Trustees 
mentioned  in  the  said  Instrument  and  their  successors  shall 
be  authorized  to  commence  and  prosecute  actions  at  law, 


214       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

and  transact  such  other  matters  in  their  corporate  capacity, 
as  the  interest  of  the  said  Academy  shall  require; 

I.  Be  it  therefore  enacted  by  the  Council  and  House  of  Repre- 
sentatives in  General  Court  assembled  and  by  the  authority  of 
the  same,   That   there   be,   arid    there  hereby  is,   established 
in  the  town  of  Andover  and  county  of  Essex  an  Academy 
by  the  name  of  Phillips  Academy,  for  the  purpose  of  pro- 
moting true  piety  and  virtue,  and  for  the  education  of  youth 
in  the  English,  Latin  and  Greek  languages,  together  with 
writing,  arithmetic,  music,  and  the  art  of  speaking,  also  prac- 
tical geometry,  logic,  and  geography,  and  such  other  of  the 
liberal  arts  and  sciences,  or  languages,  as  opportunity  may 
hereafter  permit  and  as  the  Trustees  herein  after  provided 
shall  direct. 

II.  Be  it  further  enacted  by  the  authority  aforesaid,  That 
the  Honorable  Samuel  Phillips  of  Andover,  aforesaid,  Esquire, 
the  Honorable  John  Phillips,  of  Exeter  aforesaid,  Esquire,  the 
Hon.  William  Phillips  and  Oliver  Wendell,  Esquires  and  John 
Lowell,  Esquire  of  Boston  in  the  county  of  Suffolk  and  State 
of  Massachusetts  Bay,  the  Rev.  Josiah  Stearns  of  Epping  in 
the  county  of  Rockingham  aforesaid,  the  Rev.  William  Symms 
of  said  Andover,  the  Rev.  Elias  Smith  of  Middleton  in  the  said 
county  of  Essex,  the  Rev.  Jonathan  French,  Samuel  Phillips, 
Junior,  Esquire,  Mr.  Eliphalet  Pearson,  Gentleman,  and  Mr. 
Nehemiah  Abbot,  yeoman,  all  of  Andover  aforesaid,  be,  and 
they  hereby  are  nominated  and  appointed  Trustees  of  said 
Academy;  and  they  are  hereby  incorporated  into  a  body  po- 
litic by  the  name  of  the  Trustees  of  Phillips  Academy;  and 
that  they  and  their  successors  shall  be  and  continue  a  body 
politic  and  corporate,  by  the  same  name  forever. 

III.  And  be  it  further  enacted  by  the  authority  aforesaid, 
That  all  the  Lands  and  monies  which  by  a  legal  instrument, 
bearing  date  the  first  day  of  April  in  the  year  of  our  Lord 
one  thousand  seven  hundred  and  seventy  eight,  were  given, 
granted  and  assigned  by  the  afore-mentioned  Samuel  Phillips 
and  John   Phillips  unto  the   said   William    Phillips,   Oliver 


ACT    OF    INCORPORATION    OF    PHILLIPS    ACADEMY.        215 

Wendell,  John  Lowell,  Josiah  Stearns,  William  Symms,  Elias 
Smith,  Jonathan  French,  Samuel  Philjips,  Jun.,  Eliphalet  Pear- 
son, and  Nehemiah  Abbot,  and  to  their  Heirs,  be  and  they 
hereby  are  confirmed  to  the  said  William  Phillips  and  others 
last  named  and  to  their  successors  as  Trustees  of  Phillips 
Academy  forever,  for  the  uses  and  purposes  and  upon  the 
trust  which  in  said  instrument  are  expressed.  And  the  Trus- 
tees aforesaid,  their  successors,  and  the  Officers  of  the  said 
Academy  are  hereby  required  in  conducting  the  concerns 
thereof,  and  in  all  matters  relating  thereto,  to  regulate 
themselves  conformably  to  the  true  design  and  intention  of 
the  said  grantors  as  expressed  in  their  instrument  above 
mentioned. 

IV.  And  be  it  further  enacted  by  the  authority  aforesaid, 
That  the  said  Trustees  and  their  successors  shall  have  one 
common  seal,  which  they  may  make  use  of  in  any  cause  or 
business,  that  relates  to  the  said  office  of  Trustees  of  the 
said  Academy,  and  they  shall  have  power  and  authority  to 
break,  change,  and  renew  the  said  seal  from   time  to  time 
as  they  shall  see  fit;  and  that  they  may  sue  and  be  sued 
in  all  actions  real,  personal,  and  mixed,  and  prosecute  and 
defend  the  same  unto  final  judgment  and  execution  by  the 
name  of  the  Trustees  of  Phillips  Academy. 

V.  And  be  it  furtJier  enacted  by  the  authority  aforesaid, 
That  the  said  Samuel  Phillips  and  others  the  Trustees  afore- 
said, and  their  successors,  the  longest  livers  and  survivors  of 
them,  be  the  true  and  sole  Visitors,  Trustees,  and  Governours 
of  the  said  Phillips  Academy  in  perpetual  succession  forever, 
to  be  continued  in  the  way  and  manner  hereafter  specified 
with  full  power  and  authority  to  elect  such  officers  of  the  said 
Academy  as  they  shall  judge  necessary  and  convenient,  and 
to  make  and  ordain  such  laws,  orders,  and  rules  for  the  good 
Government  of  said  Academy,  as  to  them,  the  said  Trustees, 
Governours  and  Visitors  aforesaid  and  their  successors  shall 
from  time  to  time,  according  to  the  various  occasions  and 
circumstances,  seem   most  fit  and  requisite,  all  which  shall 


216       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY. 

be  observed  by  the  officers,  scholars,  and  servants  of  the 
said  Academy  upon  the  penalties  therein  contained.  Pro- 
vided notwithstanding,  That  the  said  rules,  laws  and  orders, 
be  no  ways  contrary  to  the  laws  of  this  state. 

VI.  And   be   it  further  enacted  by  the  authority  aforesaid, 
That  the  number  of  the  said  Trustees  aforesaid  and  theii 
successors  shall  not  at  any  one  time  be  more  than  thirteen 
nor   less   than   eleven,    seven    of   whom    shall    constitute   a 
quorum  for  transacting  business,  and  a   major  part  of  the 
members  present  at  any  legal  meeting,  shall  decide  all  ques- 
tions that  shall  come  before  them,  except  in  the  instances 
herein   after   mentioned.     That  the  principal  instructor  for 
the  time  being  shall  ever  be  one  of  them,  that  a  major  part 
shall    be   laymen   and   respectable   freeholders,    also   that   a 
major  part  shall  consist  of  men  who  are  not  inhabitants  of 
the  town  where  the  seminary  is  situate;  And  to  perpetuate 
the  succession  of  said  Trustees; 

VII.  Be  it  further  enacted  by  the  authority  aforesaid,  That 
as  often  as  one  or  more  of  the  Trustees  of  said   Phillips 
Academy  shall  die  or  resign,  or  in  the  judgment  of  the  major 
part  of  the  other  Trustees  be  rendered  by  age  or  otherwise 
incapable  of  discharging  the  duties  of  his  office,  then  and  so 
often   the   Trustees   then   surviving   and   remaining   or   the 
major  part  of  them  shall  elect  one  or  more  persons  to  supply 
the  vacancy  or  vacancies. 

VIII.  And  be  it  further  enacted  by  the  authority  aforesaid, 
That  the  Trustees  aforesaid  and  their  successors  be  and  they 
hereby  are  rendered  capable  in  law  to  take  and  receive  by  gift, 
grant,  devise,  bequest  or  otherwise,  any  lands,  tenements  or 
other  estate,  real  and  personal,  provided  that  the  annual  in- 
come of  the  said  real  estate  shall  not  exceed  the  sum  of  five 
hundred  pounds,  and  the  annual  income  of  the  said  personal 
estate  shall  not  exceed  the  sum  of  Two  thousand  pounds,  both 
sums  to  be  valued  in  silver  at  the  rate  of  six  shillings  and 
eight  pence  by  the  ounce;  To  have  and  to  hold  the  same  to 
them  the  said  Trustees  and  their  successors,  on  such  terms 


ACT    OF    INCORPORATION    OF    PHILLIPS    ACADEMY.        217 

and  under  such  provisions  and  limitations  as  may  be  ex- 
pressed in  any  deed  or  instrument  of  conveyance  to  them 
made:  Provided  always  that  neither  the  said  Trustees  nor 
their  successors  shall  ever  hereafter  receive  any  grant  or  do- 
nation, the  condition  whereof  shall  require  them  or  any 
others  concerned,  to  act  in  any  respect  counter  to  the  design 
of  the  first  grantors  or  of  any  prior  donation.  And  all  deeds 
and  instruments,  which  the  said  Trustees  may  lawfully  make, 
shall,  when  made  in  the  name  of  the  said  Trustees,  and 
signed  and  delivered  by  the  Treasurer,  and  sealed  with  the 
common  seal,  bind  the  said  Trustees  and  their  successors, 
and  be  valid  in  law. 

IX.  And  be  it  further  enacted  by  the  authority  aforesaid, 
That  if  it  shall  hereafter  be  judged  upon  mature  and  impar- 
tial consideration  of  all  circumstances  by  two  thirds  of  all 
the  Trustees,  that  for  good  and  substantial  reasons  which  at 
this  time  do  not  exist,  the  true  design  of  this  institution  will 
be  better  promoted  by  removing  the  seminary  from  the  place 
where  it  is  founded;  in  that  case  it  shall  be  in  the  power  of 
the  said  Trustees  to  remove  it  accordingly,  and  to  establish 
it  in  such  place  within  this  state,  as  they  shall  judge  to  be 
best  calculated  for  carrying  into  effectual  execution  the  in- 
tention of  the  founders. 

(This  act  passed,  Oct.  4,  1780.) 


II. 

JUNE  20,  1807. 

An  act  in  addition  to  an  act  entitled  "  An  act  to  incorporate 
the  Trustees  of  Phillips  Academy  in  Andover." 

Whereas  the  Trustees  of  Phillips  Academy  have  petitioned 
this  Court  for  liberty  to  receive  and  hold  donations  of  char- 
itably disposed  persons,  for  the  purpose  of  a  Theological  in- 


218       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

stitution,  and  in  furtherance  of  the  designs  of  the  pious 
founders  and  benefactors  of  said  Academy;  and  whereas  it 
is  reasonable  that  the  prayer  should  be  granted: 

Be  it  enacted  by  the  Senate  and  House  of  Representatives, 
in  General  Court  assembled,  and  by  the  authority  of  the  same, 
That  the  said  Trustees  of  Phillips  Academy  be,  and  they 
are  hereby  empowered  to  receive,  purchase,  and  hold  for 
the  purposes  aforesaid  real  and  personal  estate,  the  annual 
income  whereof  shall  not  exceed  live  thousand  dollars  in 
addition  to  what  they  are  now  allowed  by  law  to  hold;  pro- 
vided the  income  of  said  real  and  personal  estate  be  always 
applied  to  said  objects  agreeably  to  the  will  of  the  donors,  if 
consistent  with  the  original  design  of  the  founders  of  the 
said  Academy. 


III. 

Incorporation  of  the  Board  of  Visitors. 

JANUARY   17,   1824. 

An  act  in  addition  to  an  act  entitled  "An  act  to  incorporate 
the  Trustees  of  Phillips  Academy  in  Andover "  and  the 
several  acts  in  addition  thereto. 

SECT.  1.  Be  it  enacted  by  the  Senate  and  House  of  Represen- 
tatives, in  General  Court  assembled,  and  by  authority  of  the  same, 
That  Moses  Brown,  Wm.  Bartlett,  George  Bliss,  Calvin  Chapin, 
anrl  Jeremiah  Day,  Visitors  in  the  Theological  Institution  in 
Phillips  Academy  in  Andover,  and  their  successors,  be,  and 
they  hereby  are  constituted  a  corporation,  by  the  name  of 
the  Visitors  of  the  Theological  Institution  in  Phillips  Acad 
emy  in  Andover,  to  be  the  guardians,  overseers  and  pro 
tectors  of  such  donations  as  have  been,  or  hereafter  may  be 


INCORPORATION    OF    THE    BOARD    OF    VISITORS.        219 

made  subject  to  their  inspection,  with  the  assent  of  the  Trus- 
tees of  said  academy,  according  to  the  terms  and  conditions 
prescribed  by  the  statutes  of  the  founders  thereof,  agreeably 
to  the  intentions  of  the  founders  of  said  academy;  and  as 
such  corporation  may  do  and  perform  all  acts  and  things 
required  of  them  by  such  statutes :  provided,  that  the  corpora- 
tion hereby  created  shall  have  no  power  to  take  or  hold  real 
or  personal  estate  without  the  consent  of  the  Commonwealth 
expressly  given  therefor. 

SECT.  2.  Be  it  further  enacted,  That  the  first  meeting  of 
said  visitors  may  be  called  by  either  of  the  members  of  said 
board,  and  at  such,  or  at  any  future  meeting  duly  called  for 
that  purpose,  they  may  establish  such  rules  arid  regulations 
for  the  government  of  said  board  as  they  may  think  proper: 
provided,  the  same  shall  not  be  repugnant  to  the  constitution 
and  laws  of  this  Commonwealth,  nor  to  the  statutes  of  the 
founders  of  said  institution. 

SECT.  3.  Be  it  further  enacted,  That,  if  the  said  visitors 
shall  at  any  time  act  contrary  to  the  statutes  of  the  founders 
of  said  institution,  or  exceed  the  limits  of  their  jurisdiction, 
the  party  aggrieved  may  appeal  to  the  Supreme  Judicial  Court, 
to  be  holden  within  and  for  the  County  of  Essex,  and  the 
said  'Supreme  Judicial  Court,  which  may  be  authorized  to  de- 
cide questions  of  law  in  civil  actions,  is  hereby  authorized  to 
declare  null  and  void  any  decree  or  sentence  of  the  visitors, 
which  they  may  consider  contrary  to  the  statutes  of  the 
founders,  and  beyond  the  just  limits  of  the  power  prescribed 
to  them  thereby:  provided,  hoioever,  that  nothing  herein  con- 
tained shall  be  construed  to  limit  or  restrain  the  Supreme  Ju- 
dicial Court  from  exercising  all  such  jurisdiction  in  relation 
to  this  corporation,  as  by  law  they  might  exercise,  had  not 
this  special  provision  been  made. 


220      HISTORY  OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL   SEMINARY. 

IY. 

THE  CONSTITUTION  OF  PHILLIPS  ACADEMY. 

A  SHORT  reflection  upon  the  grand  design  of  the  great 
PARENT  OF  THE  UNIVERSE  in  the  creation  of  mankind, 
and  the  improvements,  of  which  the  mind  is  capable,  both  in 
knowledge  and  virtue  as  well,  as  upon  the  prevalence  of 
ignorance  and  vice,  disorder  and  wickedness,  and  upon  the 
direct  tendency  and  certain  issue  of  such  a  course  of  things, 
must  occasion,  in  a  thoughtful  mind,  an  earnest  solicitude  to 
find  the  source  of  these  evils  and  their  remedy ;  and  a  small 
acquaintance  with  the  qualities  of  young  minds, — how  sus- 
ceptible and  tenacious  they  are  of  impressions,  evidences  that 
YOUTH  is  the  important  period,  on  the  improvement  or  neglect 
of  which  depend  the  most  important  consequences  to  indi- 
viduals themselves  and  the  community. 

A  serious  consideration  of  the  premises,  and  an  observation 
of  the  growing  neglect  of  YOUTH,  have  excited  in  us  a  painful 
anxiety  for  the  event,  and  determined  us  to  make,  in  the  fol- 
lowing Conveyance,  a  humble  dedication  to  our  HEAVENLY 
BENEFACTOR  of  the  ability,  wherewith  he  hath  blessed  us,  to 
lay  the  foundation  of  a  public  free  SCHOOL  or  ACADEMY  for  the 
purpose  of  instructing  Youth,  not  only  in  English  and  Latin 
Grammar,  Writing,  Arithmetic,  and  those  Sciences,  wherein 
they  are  commonly  taught ;  but  more  especially  to  learn  them 

the    GREAT    END    AND    REAL    BUSINESS    OF    LIVING. 

Earnestly  wishing  that  this  Institution  may  grow  and 
flourish;  that  the  advantages  of  it  may  be  extensive  and 
lasting ;  that  its  usefulness  may  be  so  manifest,  as  to  lead  the 
way  to  other  establishments  on  the  same  principles;  and  that 
it  may  finally  prove  an  eminent  means  of  advancing  the  In- 
terest of  the  great  REDEEMER,  to  His  patronage  and  blessing 
we  humbly  commit  it. 


THE    CONSTITUTION    OF    PHILLIPS    ACADEMY.          221 

KNOW  ALL  MEN  BY  THESE  PRESENTS,  that  we 
SAMUEL  PHILLIPS  of  Andover  in  the  County  of  Essex  and  State 
of  Massachusetts  Bay,  Esquire,  and  JOHN  PHILLIPS  of  Exeter 
in  the  County  of  Rockingham  and  State  of  New  Hampshire, 
Esquire,  for  the  causes  and  considerations,  and  for  the  uses 
and  purposes,  herein  after  expressed,  have  granted,  and  do 
by  these  presents  grant  unto  the  Hon.  William  Phillips,  Esq. 
Oliver  Wendell  and  John  Lowell  Esquires  of  Boston  in  the 
County  of  Suffolk  and  State  of  Massachusetts  Bay,  the  Rev. 
Josiah  Stearns  of  Epping  in  the  County  of  Rockingham  afore- 
said, Elias  Smith  of  Middleton,  William  Symmes  and  Jon- 
athan French,  Clerks,  Messrs.  Samuel  Phillips,  jun.  and  Eli- 
phalet  Pearson,  Gentleman,  and  Mr.  Nehemiah  Abbot,  Yeoman, 
all  of  Andover  aforesaid,  and  to  their  heirs,  all  the  Right, 
Title,  arid  Interest,  either  of  us  have  in  certain  parcels  of 
land,  hereafter  mentioned,  viz. 

In  three  several  pieces  of  land,  situate  in  Andover  afore- 
said ;  the  first  of  which  contains  about  twelve  acres,  the  second 
piece  contains  about  twenty  eight  acres,  the  third  piece  con- 
tains about  thirty  acres,  being  lately  part  of  the  Estate  of 
George  Abbot  Esq.  deceased,  and  conveyed  by  Capt.  Joshua 
Holt,  Administrator  on  said  Estate,  to  SAMUEL  PHILLIPS  Esq. 
aforesaid,  March  first  one  thousand  seven  hundred  and  sev- 
enty seven ; — likewise  two  other  parcels  of  land  in  said  An- 
dover, situate  near  the  two  first  mentioned  pieces,  containing 
about  thirty  nine  acres,  conveyed  by  Solomon  Wardwell  to 
said  PHILLIPS  January  twenty  fourth  one  thousand  seven  hun- 
dred and  seventy  seven,  together  with  all  the  buildings  on 
said  lands; — likewise  two  other  pieces  of  wood  land,  situate 
in  said  Andover,  containing  about  thirty  two  acres,  conveyed 
by  Neherniah  Abbot  to  said  PHILLIPS  January  twelfth  one 
thousand  seven  hundred  and  seventy  eight; — likewise  about 
two  hundred  acres  of  land  in  the  town  of  Jaffrey  in  the 
County  of  Cheshire  and  State  of  New  Hampshire,  conveyed 
by  John  Little  to  said  PHILLIPS  September  fourth  one  thousand 
seven  hundred  and  seventy  seven. 


222       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

And  the  said  SAMUEL  PHILLIPS  and  JOHN  PHILLIPS  do  also 
farther  give,  assign,  and  set  over  unto  the  said  William  Phil- 
lips, Oliver  Wendell,  John  Lowell,  Josiah  Stearns,  William 
Symmes,  Elias  Smith,  Jonathan  French,  Samuel  Phillips  jun. 
Eliphalet  Pearson,  and  Nehemiah  Abbot,  and  to  their  heirs, 
the  sum  of  one  thousand  six  hundred  and  fourteen  pounds, 
to  have  and  to  hold  the  same  land  and  the  same  sum  of  money 
to  them  and  to  their  heirs,  to  the  USE  and  upon  the  TRUST, 
hereafter  mentioned. 

The  lands  shall  be  let  out  on  proper  terms,  and  the  said 
sum  of  money  put  to  interest  on  good  security,  or  both  im- 
proved in  such  way,  as  shall  be  found  on  the  whole  most 
beneficial;  and  the  whole  of  the  Rents,  Profits,  Issues,  and 
Interest  of  said  land,  and  of  said  sum  of  money,  shall  be  for- 
ever appropriated,  laid  out,  and  expended,  for  the  support  of 
a  public  FREE  SCHOOL  or  ACADEMY  in  the  south  parish  in  the 
town  of  Andover  aforesaid  in  manner  and  form  following. 

The  said  SAMUEL  PHILLIPS  and  JOHN  PHILLIPS  shall,  together 
with  the  beforenamed  William  Phillips,  Oliver  Wendell,  John 
Lowell,  Josiah  Stearns,  William  Symmes,  Elias  Smith,  Jon- 
athan French,  Samuel  Phillips  jun.  Eliphalet  Pearson,  and 
Nehemiah  Abbot,  be  TRUSTEES  of  said  School;,  and  hereafter 
the  Master  for  the  time  being  shall  ever  be  one  of  the  TRUS- 
TEES;— a  major  part  shall  be  laymen  and  respectable  free- 
holders;— also  a  major  part  shall  not  consist  of  the  inhab- 
itants of  the  town,  where  the  Seminary  is  situate. 

The  TRUSTEES  shall  meet  on  the  last  Tuesday  of  April 
instant;  and  ever  after,  once  in  every  year,  on  such  day,  as 
they  shall  appoint ;  also  upon  emergencies,  when  called  there- 
to, as  hereafter  directed;  and  a  major  part  of  the  TRUSTEES 
shall,  when  regularly  convened,  be  a  QUORUM;  of  which  QUORUM 
a  major  part  shall  have  power  to  transact  the  business  of 
their  TRUST,  except  in  cases,  hereafter  excepted;  and  their 
first  meeting  shall  be  at  the  dwelling  house  on  the  lands, 
purchased  of  Capt.  Joshua  Holt,  where  Samuel  Phillips  jun. 
now  resides,  at  which  shall  be  chosen  the  Officers  of  the  TRUST; 


THE    CONSTITUTION    OF    PHILLIPS    ACADEMY.          223 

a  name  shall  be  given  to  this  Seminary  and  its  Principal  In- 
structor; and  such  other  business,  relating  to  this  Institution, 
transacted,  as  the  TRUSTEES  shall  think  proper. 

There  shall  be  chosen  annually  a  President,  Clerk,  and 
Treasurer,  as  Officers  of  the  TRUST,  out  of  their  own  number, 
who  shall  continue  in  their  respective  offices,  till  their  places 
are  supplied  by  a  new  election;  and,  upon  the  decease  of 
either  of  them,  another  shall  be  chosen  in  his  room  at  the 
next  meeting.  The  Master  shall  not  be  chosen  President, 
and  no  member  shall  sustain  the  office  of  Clerk  and  Treasurer 
at  the  same  time. 

The  President  shall,  in  all  cases,  give  his  voice  and  vote 
in  common  with  any  other  member;  and,  whenever  there 
shall  be  an  equal  division  of  the  members  on  any  question, 
it  shall  determine,  on  that  side,  whereon  the  President  shall 
ave  given  his  vote,  and  in  his  absence,  at  any  meeting  of 
the  TRUSTEES,  another  shall  be  appointed,  who  shall  be  vested 
with  the  same  power,  during  such  absence; — he  shall  call 
special  meetings  upon  the  application  of  any  three  of  the 
TRUSTEES,  or  upon  the  concurrence  of  any  two  of  the  TRUSTEES 
in  sentiment  with  him  on  the  occasion  of  such  meeting.  And 
upon  the  decease  of  the  President,  a  special  meeting  may  be 
called  by  any  three  of  the  TRUSTEES.  All  notifications  for 
special  meetings  shall  express  the  business,  to  be  transacted, 
if  convenient;  and  be  given  at  least  one  month  previous  to 
such  meeting,  if  not  incompatible  with  the  welfare  of  the 
Seminary;  and,  when  a  special  meeting  shall  be  called  for 
the  appointment  of  an  Instructor,  or  to  transact  other  busi- 
ness of  material  consequence,  information  shall  be  given  by 
leaving  a  written  Notification  at  the  house  of  each  TRUSTEE, 
or  in  such  other  way,  as  that  the  President,  or  members  noti- 
fying, shall  have  good  reason  to  believe  that  each  member 
has  received  the  notice. 

The  Clerk  shall  record  all  votes  of  the  TRUSTEES,  inserting 
the  names  of  those  present  at  every  meeting.  He  shall  keep 
a  fair  record  of  every  Donation,  with  the  name  of  each  Bene- 


224      HISTORY  OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

factor ;  the  purpose,  to  which  it  is  appropriated,  if  expressed ; 
and  of  all  Expenditures;  and  a  true  copy  of  the  whole  shall 
be  taken,  and  kept  in  the  Seminary,  to  be  open  for  the  pe- 
rusal of  all  men ;  and,  if  he  shall  be  absent  at  any  meeting 
of  the  TRUSTEES,  another  shall  be  appointed,  to  serve  in  his 
room,  during  such  absence. 

The  Treasurer  shall,  previous  to  his  receiving  the  Interest 
of  the  Seminary  into  his  hands,  give  Bond  for  the  faithful 
discharge  of  his  office,  in  such  sum,  as  the  TRUSTEES  shall  di- 
rect, with  sufficient  Sureties,  to  the  TRUSTEES  of  the  Seminary 
for  the  time  being  by  name;  said  Bond  to  express  the  USE 
both  in  the  obligatory  part  and  in  the  condition.  He  shall 
give  duplicate  Receipts  for  all  monies  received,  countersigned 
by  one  of  the  TRUSTEES;  one  to  the  Donor,  the  other  to  be 
lodged  with  such  member,  as  the  TRUSTEES  shall  from  time  to 
time  direct;  and  the  TRUSTEES  shall  take  such  other  measures 
as  they  shall  judge  requisite,  to  make  the  Treasurer  accounta- 
ble, and  effectually  to  secure  the  Interest  of  the  Seminary. 

The  TRUSTEES  shall  let  or  rent  out  the  lands  in  such  a 
manner,  as  they  shall  find  on  the  whole  most  profitable. 
They  may  make  sale  of  any  kind  of  Estate,  make  purchases, 
or  improve  the  property  of  the  Seminary  in  any  way,  which 
they  judge  will  best  serve  its  Interest. 

Upon  the  death,  resignation,  or  removal  of  the  Master, 
appointed  by  the  said  SAMUEL  PHILLIPS  and  JOHN  PHILLIPS,  the 
TRUSTEES  shall  appoint  another  in  his  stead;  and  ever  after 
from  time  to  time,  as  there  shall  happen  any  vacancy  in 
this  office,  they  shall  supply  it. 

Whereas  the  success  of  this  Institution  much  depends, 
under  Providence,  on  a  discreet  appointment  of  the  principal 
Instructor,  and  the  human  mind  is  liable  to  imperceptible 
bias;  it  is  therefore  required,  that,  when  any  candidate  for 
election,  as  a  principal  Instructor,  is  so  near  a  kin  to  any 
member  of  the  TRUST,  as  a  nephew  or  cousin,  in  determining 
that  election,  any  member,  to  whom  the  candidate  is  so  re- 
lated, shall  not  sit. 


THE    CONSTITUTION    OF    PHILLIPS    ACADEMY.        225 

The  TRUSTEES  are  empowered  to  appoint  such  Assistant  or 
Assistants  in  and  for  the  service  of  the  Seminary,  as  thev 
shall  judge  will  best  promote  its  usefulness,  and  as  may  be 
duly  encouraged. 

No  person  shall  be  chosen,  as  a  principal  Instructor,  un- 
less a  professor  of  the  CHRISTIAN  RELIGION,  of  exemplary  man- 
ners, of  good  natural  abilities  and  literary  acquirements,  of 
a  good  acquaintance  with  human  nature,  of  a  natural  apti- 
tude for  instruction  and  government;  and,  in  the  appointment 
of  any  Instructor,  regard  shall  be  had  to  qualifications  only, 
without  preference  of  kindred  or  friend,  place  of  birth,  edu- 
cation, or  residence. 

The  TRUSTEES  shall  make  a  contract  with  each  Master  and 
Assistant,  before  their  entrance  upon  office,  as  to  Salary ;  of 
which  there  shall  be  no  alteration,  but  in  their  favour ;  which 
the  said  TRUSTEES  are  empowered  to  make,  as  to  them  shall  ap- 
pear reasonable,  and  as  the  income  of  the  Seminary  will  admit. 

It  shall  be  their  duty,  to  inquire  into  the  conduct  of  the 
Master  and  Assistant,  or  Assistants ;  and,  if  they  or  either  of 
them  be  found  justly  chargeable  with  such  misconduct,  neg- 
lect of  duty,  or  incapacity,  as  the  said  TRUSTEES  shall  judge 
renders  them,  or  either  of  them  unfit  to  continue  in  office 
they  shall  remove  the  Master  or  any  Assistant,  so  chargeable. 

The  TRUSTEES  shall  determine  the  qualifications,  requisite 
to  entitle  Youth  to  an  admission  into  this  Seminary. 

As  the  welfare  of  the  Seminary  will  be  greatly  promoted 
by  its  members  being  conversant  with  persons  of  good  char- 
acter only;  no  Scholar  may  enjoy  the  privileges  of  this  Insti- 
tution, who  shall  board  in  any  family,  which  is  not  licensed 
by  the  TRUSTEES. 

And,  in  order  to  preserve  this  Seminary  from  the  baneful 
influence  of  the  incorrigibly  vicious,  the  TRUSTEES  shall  de- 
termine, for  what  reasons  a  Scholar  shall  be  expelled,  and 
the  manner,  in  which  the  sentence  shall  be  administered. 

The  TRUSTEES  at  their  annual  meeting  shall  visit  the 
Seminary,  and  examine  into  the  proficiency  of  the  Scholars; 


226       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

examine  and  adjust  all  accounts,  relative  to  the  Seminary; 
and  make  any  farther  Rules- and  Orders,  which  they  find 
necessary,  and  not  inconsistent  with  any  Rule,  that  is  or  may 
be  established  by  the  FOUNDERS. 

They  shall,  as  the  Funds  will  permit,  without  affecting 
the  support  of  the  Master  or  any  Assistant,  have  power  to 
erect  such  buildings,  as  they  may  think  necessary;  and  at  a 
convenient  season,  when  of  sufficient  ability,  shall  erect  a 
large,  decent  building,  sufficient  to  accommodate  at  least  fifty 
Scholars  with  boarding,  beside  the  Master  and  his  family; 
unless  it  shall  be  the  determination  of  a  major  part  of  the 
TRUSTEES,  that  the  true  design  of  this  Institution  may  be 
better  promoted  by  the  Scholars  boarding  in  private  fam- 
ilies, and  by  some  other  improvement  of  the  Interest  of  the 
Seminary.  They  shall  from  time  to  time  order  such  repairs, 
as  they  shall  judge  necessary. 

Upon  the  death,  resignation,  or  incapacity  for  the  ser- 
vice, by  reason  of  age  or  otherwise,  of  any  of  the  TRUSTEES, 
the  remaining  TRUSTEES  shall  supply  the  vacancy  by  a  new 
election. 

In  settling  the  Salary  and  Perquisites  of  the  Master,  and 
in  the  consideration  of  every  other  question,  in  which  the 
Master  is  particularly  interested,  he  shall  not  sit.  And,  if 
any  question  shall  come  before  the  TRUSTEES,  wherein  the 
Town  or  Parish,  where  the  Seminary  is  situate,  may  be  a 
party  or  particularly  interested,  and  any  Minister,  belonging 
to  such  Town  is  a  TRUSTEE;  in  the  consideration  of  such 
question  he  shall  not  sit. 

At  the  meetings  of  the  TRUSTEES  there  shall  be  made 
decent,  not  extravagant  entertainment.  Economy  is  to  be 
ever  viewed  by  the  TRUSTEES  and  Instructors,  in  their 
respective  capacities,  as  an  object,  worthy  their  particular 
recommendation. 

The  Master,  when  appointed,  shall  receive  applications 
for  the  admission  of  Scholars,  and  determine  them  agreeably 
to  the  Rules,  respecting  the  same. 


THE    CONSTITUTION    OF    PHILLIPS    ACADEMY.        227 

He  shall  conform  himself  to  the  Regulations,  established 
by  the  FOUNDERS  and  TRUSTEES,  and  have  power  from  time 
to  time  to  make  such  other  consistent  Rules  and  Orders,  as 
he  shall  find  necessary  for  the  internal  management  arid 
regulation  of  the  Seminary;  which  Rules  and  Orders  shall 
be  subject  to  the  examination,  amendment,  or  discontinu- 
ance of  the  TRUSTEES,  at  their  discretion. 

It  shall  be  ever  considered,  as  the  first  and  principal  duty 
of  the  Master,  to  regulate  the  tempers,  to  enlarge  the  minds, 
and  form  the  Morals  of  the  Youth,  committed  to  his  care. 

There  shall  be  taught  in  this  Seminary  the  English,  Latin, 
and  Greek  Languages,  Writing,  Arithmetic,  Music,  and  the 
Art  of  Speaking;  also  practical  Geometry,  Logic,  and  any 
other  of  the  liberal  Arts  and  Sciences,  or  Languages,  as 
opportunity  and  ability  may  hereafter  admit,  and  as  the 
TRUSTEES  shall  direct. 

The  Master  is  to  give  special  attention  to  the  health  of 
the  Scholars,  and  ever  to  urge  the  importance  of  a  habit 
of  Industry.  For  these  purposes  it  is  to  be  a  part  of  his 
duty,  to  encourage  the  Scholars  to  perform  some  manual 
labor,  such  as  gardening,  or  the  like;  so  far  as  it  is  con- 
'sistent  with  cleanliness  and  the  inclination  of  their  parents; 
and  the  fruit  of  their  labor  shall  be  applied,  at  the  discre- 
tion of  the  TRUSTEES,  for  procuring  a  Library,  or  in  some 
other  way  increasing  the  usefulness  of  this  Seminary. 

But,  above  all,  it  is  expected,  that  the  Master's  attention 
to  the  disposition  of  the  Minds  and  Morals  of  the  Youth, 
under  his  charge,  will  exceed  every  other  care;  well  con- 
sidering that,  though  goodness  without  knowledge  (as  it  re- 
spects others)  is  weak  and  feeble;  yet  knowledge  without 
goodness  is  dangerous;  and  that  both  united  form  the  no- 
blest character,  and  lay  the  surest  foundation  of  usefulness 
to  mankind. 

It  is  therefore  required,  that  he  most  attentively  and 
vigorously  guard  against  the  earliest  irregularities ;  that  he 
frequently  delineate,  in  their  natural  colours,  the  deformity 


228       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY. 

and  odiousness  of  vice,  and  the  beauty  and  amiableness  of 
virtue;  that  he  spare  no  pains,  to  convince  them  of  their 
numberless  and  indispensable  obligations  to  abhor  and  avoid 
the  former,  and  to  love  and  practise  the  latter;  of  the  sev- 
eral great  duties,  they  owe  to  God,  their  country,  their  par- 
ents, their  neighbour,  and  themselves;  that  he  critically 
and  constantly  observe  the  variety  of  their  natural  tempers, 
and  solicitously  endeavour  to  bring  them  under  such  disci- 
pline, as  may  tend  most  effectually  to  promote  their  own 
satisfaction  and  the  happiness  of  others;  that  he  early  inure 
them  to  contemplate  the  several  connexions  and  various 
scenes,  incident  to  human  life;  furnishing  such  general  max- 
ims of  conduct,  as  may  best  enable  them  to  pass  through 
all  with  ease,  reputation,  and  comfort. 

And,  whereas  many  of  the  Students  in  this  Seminary 
may  be  devoted  to  the  sacred  work  of  the  gospel  ministry; 
that  the  true  and  fundamental  principles  of  the  Christian 
Religion  may  be  cultivated,  established,  and  perpetuated  in 
the  Christian  Church,  so  far,  as  this  Institution  may  have 
influence;  it  shall  be  the  duty  of  the  Master,  as  the  age  and 
capacities  of  the  Scholars  will  admit,  not  only  to  instruct  and 
establish  them  in  the  truth  of  Christianity;  but  also  early 
and  diligently  to  inculcate  upon  them  the  great  and  im- 
portant scripture  doctrines  of  the  existence  of  One  true 
GOD,  the  FATHER,  SON,  and  HOLY  GHOST;  of  the  fall  of  man, 
the  depravity  of  human  nature;  the  necessity  of  an  atone- 
ment, and  of  our  being  renewed  in  the  spirit  of  our  minds ; 
the  doctrines  of  repentance  toward  God  and  of  faith  toward 
our  Lord  Jesus  Christ;  of  sanctification  by  the  Holy  Spirit, 
and  of  justification  by  the  free  grace  of  God,  through  the 
redemption,  that  is  in  Jesus  Christ,  (in  opposition  to  the 
erroneous  and  dangerous  doctrine  of  justification  by  our 
own  merit,  or  a  dependence  on  self  righteousness,)  to- 
gether with  the  other  important  doctrines  and  duties  of 
our  HOLY  CHRISTIAN  RELIGION. 

And,  whereas  the  most  wholesome  precepts,  without  fre- 


THE    CONSTITUTION    OF    PHILLIPS    ACADEMY.        229 

quent  repetition,  may  prove  ineffectual ;  it  is  farther  required 
of  the  Master,  that  he  not  only  urge  and  reurge;  but  con- 
tinue from  day  to  day,  to  impress  these  instructions. 

And  let  him  ever  remember  that  the  design  of  this  In- 
stitution can  never  be  answered,  without  his  persevering, 
incessant  attention  to  this  duty. 

Protestants  only  shall  ever  be  concerned  in  the  TRUST 
or  Instruction  of  this  Seminary. 

The  election  of  all  Officers  shall  be  by  ballot  only. 

This  Seminary  shall  be  ever  equally  open  to  Youth,  of 
requisite  qualifications,  from  every  quarter;  provided,  that 
none  be  admitted,  till  in  common  parlance  they  can  read 
English  well,  excepting  such  particular  numbers,  as  the 
TRUSTEES  may  hereafter  license. 

And,  in  order  to  prevent  the  smallest  perversion  of  the 
true  intent  of  this  Foundation,  it  is  again  declared,  that  the 
first  and  principal  object  of  this  Institution  is  the  promotion 
of  true  PIETY  and  VIRTUE  ;  the  second,  instruction  in  the  Eng- 
lish, Latin,  and  Greek  Languages,  together  with  Writing, 
Arithmetic,  Music,  and  the  Art  of  Speaking;  the  third,  prac- 
tical Geometry,  Logic,  and  Geography ;  and  the  fourth,  such 
other  of  the  liberal  Arts  and  Sciences  or  Languages,  as  op- 
portunity and  ability  may  hereafter  admit,  and  as  the  TRUS- 
TEES shall  direct.  And  these  Regulations  shall  be  read  by 
the  President,  at  the  annual  meetings  of  the  TRUSTEES. 

Whereas,  in  the  course  of  human  events,  the  period  may 
arrive,  when  the  prosperity  of  this  Institution  may  be  pro- 
moted by  removing  it  from  the  place,  where  it  is  founded; 
if  it  shall  hereafter  be  judged,  upon  mature  and  impartial 
consideration  '  of  all  circumstances,  by  two  thirds  of  the 
TRUSTEES,  that  for  good  and  substantial  reasons,  which  at 
this  time  do  not  exist,  the  true  design,  herein  expressed, 
will  be  better  served,  by  removing  the  Seminary  to  some 
other  place ;  it  shall  be  in  their  power,  to  remove  it  accord- 
ingly; provided  that,  if  this  event  shall  ever  take  place, 
there  shall  be  fairly  and  truly  entered  on  the  Clerk's  records 


230       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

all  the  reasons,  whereon  the  determination  was  grounded; 
and  the  same  shall  be  subscribed  by  the  members,  who  ef- 
fected the  determination ;  but  unless  the  good  of  mankind 
shall  manifestly  require  it,  this  Seminary  shall  never  be 
removed  from  the  South  Parish  in  the  town  of  Andover. 

And  we  hereby  reserve  to  ourselves,  during  any  part  of 
our  natural  lives,  the  full  right,  jointly  to  make  any  special 
Rules  for  the  perpetual  Government  of  this  Institution;  which 
shall  be  equally  binding  on  those,  whom  they  may  concern, 
with  any  clause  in  these  Regulations ;  provided,  no  such  Rule 
shall  be  subversive  of  the  TRUE  DESIGN,  herein  expressed.  We 
also  reserve  to  ourselves  a  right,  jointly  to  appoint  one  person, 
to  succeed  in  the  TRUST  after  our  decease  or  resignation ;  to 
whom  shall  be  transferred  the  same  right  of  appointment,  and 
to  his  Successors  in  the  said  TRUST  forever. 

In  witness  whereof  we,  the  Subscribers,  have  hereunto  set 
our  hands  and  seals  this  twenty  first  day  of  April  in  the  year 
of  our  LORD,  one  thousand  seven  hundred  and  seventy  eight. 

Signed,  sealed,  and  delivered  r;  *  ATTTTTT      PUTT  T  TPC    /C  \ 

in  presence  of  b  AMU  EL    rrllLLirb    (b.) 

JOHN  ABBOT, 

HANNAH  HOLT.  JOHN  PHILLIPS        (S.) 


FOUNDERS. 

HON.  SAMUEL  PHILLIPS,  A.M. 
HON.  JOHN  PHILLIPS,  LL.D. 


ORIGINAL    TRUSTEES. 

Exitus. 

*  Hon.  SAMUEL  PHILLIPS,  A.M.  1791 

*  Hon.  JOHN  PHILLIPS,  LL.D.  1795 

*  Hon.  WILLIAM  PHILLIPS.  Resign.  1802 

*  Hon.  OLIVER  WENDELL,  A.M.  1820 

*  Hon.  JOHN  LOWELL,  LL.D.  1802 

*  Rev.  JOSIAH  STEARNS,  A.M.  Resign.  1781 

*  Rev.  ELIAS  SMITH,  A.M.  1793 


THE    CONSTITUTION    OF    PHILLIPS    ACADEMY.  231 

*  Rev.  WILLIAM  SYMMES,  D.D.          Resign.  1795 

*  Rev.  JONATHAN  FRENCH,  A.M.  1809 
*  His  Honor  SAMUEL  PHILLIPS,  LL.D.  1802 

*  Rev.  ELIPHALET  PEARSON,  LL.D.  1826 

*  Mr.    NEHEMIAH  ABBOT.  1808 


ELECTED    TRUSTEES. 

\ccessus.  Exitus. 

1771  *  Rev.  DAVID  TAPPAN,  D.D.                             1803 

1791       *  His  Honor  WILLIAM  PHILLIPS.  1827 

1795  *  SAMUEL  ABBOT,  Esq.                             1812 

1795  MARK  NEWMAN,  A.M. 

1795  *  Rev.  JEDIDIAH  MORSE,  D.D.                         1826 

1795  *  Hon.  JACOB  ABBOT.                          Resign.  1801 

1801  *  Hon.  JOHN  PHILLIPS,  A.M.  (Andover.)       1820 

1802  *  Hon.  JOHN  PHILLIPS,  A.M.  (Boston,)          1823 
1802  Hon.  JOSIAH  QUINCY,  LL.D. 

1802  SAMUEL  FARRAR,  A.M. 

1804  Rev.   DANIEL  DANA,  D.D. 

1809  Rev.  ABIEL  HOLMES,  D.D.,  LL.D. 

1811  SAMUEL  H.  WALLEY,  Esq. 

1820  Hon.  JONATHAN  PHILLIPS. 

1820  Rev.  JUSTIN  EDWARDS,  D.D. 

1823  Hon.  SAMUEL  HUBBARD,  LL.D. 

1826  Rev.   BENJAMIN  B.   WISNER,  D.D. 

1826  Rev.  JOHN  H.  CHURCH,  D.D. 

1827  Hon.  WILLIAM  B.  BANISTER. 


PRINCIPALS. 

Besignavit. 

1778  *  Rev.   ELIPHALET  PEARSON,  LL.D.  1786 

1786  EBENEZER  PEMBERTON,  A.M.  1793 

1795  MARK  NEWMAN,  A.M.  1809 

1810  JOHN  ADAMS,  A.M. 


232       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 


V. 


CONSTITUTION    OF    THE    THEOLOGICAL 
SEMINARY. 

IT  having  pleased  the  Father  of  lights  and  Author  of  all 
good  to  inspire  the  late  Honorable  SAMUEL  PHILLIPS  of  An- 
dover  in  the  County  of  Essex  and  Commonwealth  of  Mas- 
sachusetts Esquire,  and  the  late  Honorable  JOHN  PHILLIPS 
of  Exeter  in  the  County  of  Rockingham  and  State  of  New 
Hampshire  Esquire,  with  the  pious  determination  to  make 
"a  humble  dedication  to  their  Heavenly  Benefactor  of  the 
ability,  wherewith  He  had  blessed  them,"  by  laying,  in  the 
year  1778,  in  the  South  Parish  in  Andover  aforesaid,  the 
foundation  of  a  public  Academy,  for  the  instruction  of  youth, 
not  only  in  the  learned  Languages  and  in  various  useful 
Arts  and  Sciences,  but  principally  for  the  promotion  of  true 
PIETY  and  VIRTUE; — it  having  also  pleased  the  INFINITE 
MIND,  at  subsequent  periods,  to  excite  the  said  JOHN  PHIL- 
LIPS, and  likewise  the  late  Hon.  WILLIAM  PHILLIPS  of  Boston 
in  the  County  of  Suffolk  and  Commonwealth  aforesaid 
Esquire,  to  make  liberal  provision,  not  only  for  "promot- 
ing the  virtuous  and  pious  education  of  indigent  youth  of 
genius,  and  of  serious  disposition,  in  said  Academy;"  but 
"more  especially  for  the  benefit  of  charity  Scholars  of  ex- 
celling genius,  good  moral  character,  hopefully  pious,  and 
designed  for  the  great  and  good  work  of  the  gospel  min- 
istry, who,  having  acquired  the  most  useful  human  Litera- 
ture, may  be  assisted  in  the  study  of  Divinity,  under  the 
direction  of  some  eminent  Calvinistic  Minister  of  the  gospel, 
until  such  time,  as  an  able,  pious,  and  orthodox  Instructor  shall 
be  supported  in  the  said  Academy,  as  a  Professor  of  Divinity, 
by  whom  they  may  be  taught  the  important  and  distin- 
guishing tenets  of  our  HOLY  CHRISTIAN  RELIGION." 


CONSTITUTION    OF    THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY.       233 

In  pursuance  therefore  of  the  same  benevolent  and  pious 
object,  and  with  a  desire  to  devote  a  part  of  the  substance, 
with  which  Heaven  has  blessed  us,  to  the  defense  and  pro- 
motion of  the  Christian  Religion,  by  making  some  provision 
for  increasing  the  number  of  learned  and  able  Defenders  of 
the  gospel  of  CHRIST  as  well,  as  of  orthodox,  pious,  and  zealous 
Ministers  of  the  New  Testament;  being  moved  by  the  same 
Spirit,  which  actuated  the  Founders  and  Benefactors  afore- 
said, and  influenced,  as  we  hope,  by  a  principle  of  gratitude 
to  GOD  and  benevolence  to  man; — 

We,  PHEBE  PHILLIPS  of  said  Andover,  Relict  of  SAMUEL 
PHILLIPS  Esq.  late  Lieutenant  Governor  of  the  Common- 
wealth aforesaid,  and  JOHN  PHILLIPS,  son  of  the  said  SAMUEL 
PHILLIPS  and  PHEBE  PHILLIPS  do  hereby  jointly  and  severally 
obligate  ourselves  to  erect  and  finish,  with  all  convenient 
dispatch,  two  separate  buildings;  one  of  which  to  be  three 
stories  high,  and  of  such  other  dimensions,  as  to  furnish 
convenient  lodging  rooms  for  fifty  Students;  and  the  other 
building  to  be  two  stories  high,  and  of  such  dimensions,  as 
to  furnish,  in  addition  to  a  kitchen  and  private  rooms  nec- 
essary to  a  Steward's  family,  three  public  rooms,  one  for  a 
dining  Hall,  one  for  a  Chapel  and  Lecture  room,  (each  suf- 
ficiently large  to  accommodate  sixty  Students)  and  a  third 
for  a  Library,  the  said  buildings  to  be  located  by  direction 
of  the  TRUSTEES  OF  PHILLIPS  ACADEMY; — and  I,  SAMUEL  ABBOT 
of  Andover  aforesaid  Esquire,  with  the  same  views,  and  in 
furtherance  of  the  same  design,  do  hereby  give,  assign,  and 
set  over  unto  the  TRUSTEES  aforesaid  the  sum  of  twenty  thou- 
sand dollars,  in  TRUST,  as  a  Fund  for  the  purpose  of  main- 
taining a  Professor  of  Christian  Theology  (reserving  to  my- 
self the  right  of  appointing  the  first  Professor  on  this 
Foundation)  and  for  the  support  and  encouragement  of 
Students  in  Divinity;  both  the  said  buildings  and  the  in- 
terest or  annual  income  of  the  said  sum  of  money  to  be 
forever  appropriated  and  applied  by  the  TRUSTEES  aforesaid 
for  the  use  and  endowment  of  such  a  public  THEOLOGICAL 


234      HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY. 

INSTITUTION  in  PHILLIPS  ACADEMY,  as  is  herein  after  described, 
and  on  the  following  express  conditions,  viz.  that  the  said 
INSTITUTION  be  accepted  by  the  TRUSTEES  aforesaid,  and  that 
it  be  forever  conducted  and  governed  by  them,  and  their 
Successors,  in  conformity  to  the  following  general  Principles 
and  Regulations,  which  we  unitedly  adopt  and  ratify  as  the 
CONSTITUTION  of  the  same,  reserving  to  ourselves,  however, 
during  our  natural  lives  the  full  right,  jointly  to  make  any 
additional  Regulations,  or  to  alter  any  Rule,  herein  pre- 
scribed; provided  such  Regulation  or  Alteration  be  not 
prejudicial  to  the  true  design  of  this  Foundation,  viz. 

FIRST.  This  INSTITUTION  or  SEMINARY  shall  be  equally  open 
to  Protestants  of  every  denomination  for  the  admission  of 
young  men  of  requisite  qualifications. 

SECOND.  Every  Candidate  for  admission  into  this  Semi- 
nary shall  produce  satisfactory  evidence,  that  he  possesses 
good  natural  and  acquired  talents,  has  honorably  completed 
a  course  of  liberal  education,  .and  sustains  a  fair  moral 
character.  He  shall  also  declare  that  it  is  his  serious  inten- 
tion to  devote  himself  to  the  work  of  the  gospel  ministry, 
(unless  in  certain  peculiar  cases  it  appear  to  the  TRUSTEES, 
or  a  Committee  of  their  appointment,  that  the  object  of  this 
INSTITUTION  will  be  promoted  by  excusing  a  pious  Applicant 
from  making  this  declaration)  and  exhibit  proper  testimonials 
of  his  being  in  full  communion  with  some  Church  of  CHRIST; 
in  default  of  which  he  shall  subscribe  a  declaration  of  his 
belief  of  the  Christian  Religion. 

THIRD.  The  Students  in  this  Seminary  shall  be  aided  in 
their  preparation  for  the  ministry  by  able  Professors ;  whose 
duty  it  shall  be,  by  public  and  private  instruction,  to  unlock 
the  treasures  of  divine  knowledge,  to  direct  the  Pupils  in  their 
inquiries  after  sacred  truth,  to  guard  them  against  religious 
error,  and  to  accelerate  their  acquisition  of  heavenly  wisdom. 

FOURTH.  The  public  instruction  shall  be  given  in  Lectures 
on  Natural  Theology,  Sacred  Literature,  Ecclesiastical  His- 
tory, Christian  Theology,  and  Pulpit  Eloquence. 


CONSTITUTION    OF    THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY.       235 

FIFTH.  In  the  Lectures  on  Natural  Theology,  the  exist- 
ence, attributes,  and  providence  of  GOD,  shall  be  demonstrated ; 
the  soul's  immortality  and  a  future  state,  as  deducible  from 
the  light  of  nature,  discussed;  the  obligations  of  man  to  his 
Maker,  resulting  from  the  divine  perfections  and  his  own 
rational  nature,  enforced;  the  great  duties  of  social  life, 
flowing  from  the  mutual  relations  of  man  to  man,  incul- 
cated; and  the  several  personal  virtues  deduced  and  delin- 
eated; the  whole  being  interspersed  with  remarks  on  the 
coincidence  between  the  dictates  of  reason  and 'the  doctrines 
of  revelation,  in  these  primary  points;  and,  notwithstanding 
such  coincidence,  the  necessity  and  utility  of  a  divine  rev- 
elation stated. 

SIXTH.  Under  the  head  of  Sacred  Literature  shall  be  in- 
cluded Lectures  on  the  formation,  preservation,  and  trans- 
mission of  the  Sacred  Volurrle;  on  the  languages,  in  which 
the  Bible  was  originally  written;  on  the  Septuagint  version 
of  the  old  Testament,  and  on  the  peculiarities  of  the  lan- 
guage and  style  of  the  new  Testament,  resulting  from  this 
version  and  other  causes ;  on  the  history,  character,  use,  and 
authority  of  the  antient  versions  and  manuscripts  of  the 
old  and  new  Testaments ;  on  the  canons  of  biblical  criticism ; 
on  the  authenticity  of  the  several  books  of  the  sacred  Code; 
on  the  apocryphal  books  of  both  Testaments;  on  modern 
translations  of  the  Bible,  more  particularly  on  the  history 
and  character  of  our  English  version ;  and  also  critical  Lec- 
tures on  the  various  readings  and  difficult  passages  in  the 
sacred  writings.  ' 

SEVENTH.  Under  the  head  of  Ecclesiastical  History  shall 
be  comprised  Lectures  on  Jewish  antiquities;  on  the  origin 
and  extension  of  the  Christian  church  in  the  first  three  cen- 
turies; on  the  various  sects  and  heresies  in  the  early  ages 
of  Christianity;  on  the  character  and  writings  of  the  Fa- 
thers; on  the  establishment  of  Christianity  by  Constantine, 
and  its  subsequent  effects;  on  the  rise  and  progress  of  popery 
and  mahometanism ;  on  the  corruptions  of  the  church  of 


236       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

Kome;  on  the  grounds,  progress,  and  doctrines  of  the  refor- 
mation; on  the  different  denominations  among  Protestants; 
on  the  various  constitutions,  discipline,  and  rites  of  worship, 
which  have  divided,  or  may  still  divide  the  Christian  church; 
on  the  state  and  prevalence  of  paganism  in  our  world;  and  on 
the  effect,  which  idolatry,  mahometanism,  and  Christianity  have 
respectively  produced  on  individual  and  national  character. 

EIGHTH.  Under  the  head  of  Christian  Theology  shall  be 
comprehended  Lectures  on  divine  revelation;  on  the  inspi- 
ration and  truth  of  the  old  and  new  Testaments,  as  proved 
by  miracles,  internal  evidence,  fulfilment  of  prophecies,  and 
historic  facts ;  on  the  great  doctrines  and  duties  of  our  holy 
Christian  Religion,  together  with  the  objections,  made  to 
them  by  unbelievers,  and  the  refutation  of  such  objections; 
more  particularly  on  the  revealed  character  of  GOD,  as  Fa- 
ther, Son,  and  Holy  Ghost;  on  the  fall  of  man  and  the  de- 
pravity of  human  nature;  on  the  covenant  of  grace;  on  the 
character,  offices,  atonement,  and  mediation  of  Jesus  Christ; 
on  the  character  and  offices  of  the  Holy  Spirit;  on  the 
Scripture  doctrines  of  regeneration,  justification,  and  sanc- 
tification;  on  evangelical  repentance,  faith,  and  obedience; 
on  the  nature  and  necessity  of  true  virtue  or  gospel  holi- 
ness; on  the  future  state,  the  immortality  of  soul  and  body, 
and  the  eternity  of  future  rewards  and  punishments,  as  re- 
vealed in  the  gospel;  on  the  positive  institutions  of  Christi- 
anity; on  the  nature,  interpretation,  and  use  of  prophecy;  and 
on  personal  religion,  as  a  qualification  for  the  ministry;  each 
Lecture  under  this  head  to  be  preceded  and  followed  by  prayer. 

NINTH.  Under  the  head  of  Pulpit  Eloquence  shall  be  de- 
livered a  competent  number  of  Lectures  on  the  importance 
of  oratory;  on  the  invention  and  disposition  of  topics;  on 
the  several  parts  of  a  regular  discourse;  on  elegance,  com- 
position, and  dignity  in  style;  on  pronunciation,  or  the 
proper  management  of  the  voice  and  correct  gesture ;  on  the 
immense  importance  of  a  natural  manner;  on  the  rules,  to 
be  observed  in  composing  a  sermon,  and  on  the  adaptation 


CONSTITUTION    OF    THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY.       237 

of  the  principles  and  precepts  of  antient  rhetoric,  to  this 
modern  species  of  oration;  on  the  qualities  in  the  speaker, 
in  his  style,  and  in  his  delivery,  necessary  to  a  finished  pulpit 
Orator;  on  the  methods  of  strengthening  the  memory,  and 
of  improving  in  sacred  eloquence ;  on  the  character  and  style 
of  the  most  eminent  Divines  and  best  models  for  imitation, 
their  respective  beauties  and  excellencies  in  thought  and 
expression ;  and  above  all,  on  the  transcendent  simplicity, 
beauty,  and  sublimity  of  the  SACRED  WRITINGS. 

TENTH.  It  shall  be  the  duty  of  the  Professors,  by  private 
instruction  and  advice,  to  aid  the  Students  in  the  acquisition 
of  a  radical  and  adequate  knowledge  of  the  sacred  scriptures 
in  their  original  languages,  and  of  the  old  Testament  in  the 
Septuagirit  version;  to  direct  their  method  of  studying  the 
Bible  and  all  other  writings;  to  superintend  and  animate 
their  pursuits  by  frequent  inquiries  and  examinations,  rela- 
tive to  their  progress  in  books  and  knowledge;  to  assign 
proper  subjects  for  their  first  compositions,  and  to  suggest 
a  natural  method  of  treating  them;  frequently  and  critically 
to  examine  their  early  productions,  and  in  a  free,  but  friendly 
manner,  to  point  out  their  defects  and  errors,  in  grammar, 
method,  reasoning,  style,  and  sentiment;  to  improve  them 
in  the  important  art  of  reading,  and  to  give  them  opportu- 
nities of  speaking  in  public,  favoring  them  with  their  can- 
did remarks  on  their  whole  manner;  to  explain  intricate  texts 
of  Scripture,  referred  to  them;  to  solve  cases  of  conscience; 
to  watch  orer  their  health  and  morals  with  paternal  solici- 
tude; and  by  every  prudent  and  Christian  method,  to  pro- 
mote the  growth  of  true  piety  in  their  hearts;  to  give  them 
friendly  advice  with  relation  to  their  necessary  intercourse 
among  men  in  the  various  walks  of  life,  and  especially  with 
respect  to  the  manner,  in  which  it  becomes  a  minister  of  the 
meek  and  lowly  JESUS  to  address  both  GOD  and  man,  whether 
in  the  assembly  of  his  saints,  or  in  the  chamber  of  sickness 
and  of  death. 

ELEVENTH.  Every  Professor  in  this  Seminary  shall  be  a 


238       HISTORY   OF   ANDOYER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

Master  of  Arts,  of  the  Protestant  reformed  religion,  in  com- 
munion with  some  Christian  Church, of  the  Congregational 
or  Presbyterian  denomination,  and  sustain  the  character  of 
a  sober,  honest,  learned,  and  pious  man;  he  shall  moreover 
be  a  man  of  sound  and  orthodox  principles  in  Divinity,  ac- 
cording to  that  form  of  sound  words  or  system  of  evangel- 
ical doctrines,  drawn  from  the  Scriptures,  and  denominated 
the  Westminster  Assembly's  shorter  Catechism,  and  more 
concisely  delineated  in  the  CONSTITUTION  OF  PHILLIPS  ACADEMY. 

TWELFTH.  Every  person  therefore,  appointed  or  elected  a 
Professor  in  this  Seminary,  shall  on  the  day  of  his  inaugura- 
tion into  office,  and  in  the  presence  of  the  said  TRUSTEES,  pub- 
licly make  and  subscribe  a  solemn  Declaration  of  his  faith  in 
divine  revelation,  and  in  the  fundamental  and  distinguishing 
doctrines  of  the  gospel  of  Christ,  as  summarily  expressed  in 
the  Westminster  Assembly's  shorter  Catechism ;  and  he  shall 
farthermore  solemnly  promise,  that  he  will  open  and  explain 
the  Scriptures  to  his  Pupils  with  integrity  and  faithfulness; 
that  he  will  maintain  and  inculcate  the  Christian  faith,  as 
above  expressed,  together  with  all  the  other  doctrines  and 
duties  of  our  holy  religion,  so  far  as  may  appertain  to  his  office, 
according  to  the  best  light,  GOD  shall  give  him ;  and  in  op- 
position, not  only  to  Atheists  and  Infidels,  but  to  Jews, 
Mahometans,  Arians,  Pelagians,  Antinomians,  Arminians, 
Socinians,  Unitarians,  and  Universalists,  and  to  all  other 
heresies  and  errors,  antient  or  modern,  which  may  be  op- 
posed to  the  gospel  of  CHRIST,  or  hazardous  to  the  souls  of 
men; — that  by  his  instructions,  counsels,  and  example,  he 
will  endeavor  to  promote  true  PIETY  and  GODLINESS;  that  he 
will  consult  the  good  of  this  INSTITUTION  and  the  peace  of 
the  churches  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  on  all  occasions;  and 
that  he  will  religiously  observe  the  Statutes  of  this  INSTITUTION, 
relative  to  his  official  duties  and  deportment,  and  all  such 
other  Statutes  and  Laws,  as  shall  be  constitutionally  made 
by  the  TRUSTEES  OF  PHILLIPS  ACADEMY,  not  repugnant  thereto. 

THIRTEENTH.  The  preceding  Declaration  shall  be  repeated 


CONSTITUTION    OP    THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY.       239 

by  every  Professor  in  this  Seminary,  in  the  presence  of  the 
said  TRUSTEES,  at  the  expiration  of  every  successive  period 
of  five  years;  and  no  man  shall  be  continued  a  Professor  in 
this  INSTITUTION,  who  shall  not  continue  to  approve  himself, 
to  the  satisfaction  of  the  said  TRUSTEES,  a  man  of  sound  and 
orthodox  principles  in  Divinity,  agreeably  to  the  system  of 
evangelical  doctrines,  contained  in  the  aforesaid  Catechism. 
Accordingly,  if  at  any  meeting,  regularly  appointed,  it  should 
be  proved  to  the  satisfaction  of  a  majority  of  the  whole  num- 
ber of  the  said  TRUSTEES,  that  any  Professor  in  this  INSTITU- 
TION has  taught  or  embraced  any  of  the  heresies  or  errors, 
alluded  to  in  the  Declaration  aforesaid;  or,  should  he  refuse 
to  repeat  the  same,  as  herein  required,  he  shall  be  forthwith 
removed  from  office. 

FOURTEENTH.  Every  Professor  in  this  INSTITUTION  shall  be 
under  the  immediate  inspection  of  the  said  TRUSTEES;  and  by 
them  be  removed,  agreeably  to  the  will  of  his  Founder,  for 
gross  neglect  of  duty,  scandalous  immorality,  mental  in- 
capacity, or  any  other  just  and  sufficient  cause. 

FIFTEENTH.  Whenever  a  Professor  in  this  Seminary  shall 
be  removed  by  death  or  otherwise;  the  said  TRUSTEES  shall 
elect  a  Successor  within  twelve  months. 

SIXTEENTH.  The  TRUSTEES  aforesaid,  in  conformity  to  the 
Statutes  of  every  Founder,  shall  assign  to  the  Professors  in 
this  Seminary  their  respective  departments  of  instruction,  the 
times  for  reading  their  lectures,  and  their  several  public  and 
private  duties,  in  such  manner,  as,  after  consultation  with 
the  said  Professors,  shall  to  the  said  TRUSTEES  appear  most 
convenient  and  useful;  provided  however,  that  the  course  of 
lectures  in  each  department  be  always  completed  within  the 
space  of  three  years. 

SEVENTEENTH.  The  necessary  expenses  of  indigent  Students 
at  this  Seminary,  for  board,  lodging,  washing,  fuel,  and  light, 
will  be  defrayed  out  of  funds,  appropriated  to  this  purpose, 
agreeably  to  the  Kegulations,  in  such  case  provided,  and  as 
said  funds  may  permit. 


240       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

EIGHTEENTH.  No  person  shall  be  admitted  a  Student  on 
the  charitable  Foundation,  who  is  not  distinguished  by 
natural  abilities,  literary  acquirements,  unblemished  morals, 
and  hopeful  piety;  a  certificate  of  which  qualities  will  be  re- 
quired from  known  and  respectable  characters,  in  order  to 
the  enjoyment  of  this  charity. 

NINETEENTH.  To  be  entitled  to  the  maintenance  aforesaid, 
each  Student  on  the  charitable  Foundation,  unless  prevented 
by  sickness,  must  reside  at  this  Seminary  eight  months  at 
least  in  each  year,  regularly  attending  the  exercises  afore- 
said as  well,  as  diligently  prosecuting  the  studies  prescribed* 
and  in  all  respects  conforming  to  the  Rules  of  this  Consti- 
tution, and  to  the  Laws  and  Orders  of  the  said  TRUSTEES. 

TWENTIETH.  Whatever  may  be  the  number  of  vacations, 
the  aggregate  thereof  shall  not  exceed  twelve  weeks  in  any 
one  year;  and  the  constant  presence  of  the  Professors  and 
Students  will  be  expected  in  term  time. 

TWENTY  FIRST.  Every  Student  in  this  Seminary  shall  con- 
stantly, punctually,  and  seriously  attend  the  religious  exer- 
cises of  the  chapel  morning  and  evening,  and  all  the  public 
lectures  of  the  several  Professors;  and,  to  increase  the  rev- 
erence, due  to  religious  institutions,  as  well,  as  to  give 
weight  to  public  instruction,  it  is  expected,  that  the  Pro- 
fessors not  only  frequent  the  chapel  at  morning  and  evening 
prayers,  but  that  they  constantly  attend  each  other's  public 
lectures. 

TWENTY  SECOND.  Every  Student  in  this  Seminary  is  re- 
quired to  devote  so  much  time  to  the  study  of  the  learned 
languages,  as  shall  increase  his  knowledge  of  them,  espe- 
cially of  the  Greek  and  Hebrew  languages;  to  pay  due  at- 
tention to  Philology,  Rhetoric,  and  Oratory ;  to  read  the  best 
treatises  on  natural  and  revealed  Religion,  and  on  the  fun- 
damental doctrines  of  the  Gospel;  to  make  himself  master 
of  the  principal  arguments  and  evidences  of  the  truth  of 
Christianity;  to  pay  due  attention  to  ecclesiastical  History, 
and  to  the  canons  of  biblical  Criticism.  But  above  all,  it  is 


CONSTITUTION   OF   THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY.      241 

required,  that  he  make  the  BIBLE  the  object  of  his  most 
attentive,  diligent,  and  prayerful  study. 

TWENTY  THIRD.  It  will  be  the  duty  of  the  Professors  in 
this  Seminary  to  prepare  a  list  of  such  books,  and  to  point 
out  such  a  course  of  study,  as  in  their  opinion  may  be  most 
congenial  to  the  true  design  of  this  Institution,  and  most 
beneficial  to  the  Students  in  it;  which  list  of  books  and 
course  of  study,  being  approved  by  said  TRUSTEES,  said  Stu- 
dents shall  pursue;  they  shall  also  frequently  ask  the  advice 
and  assistance  of  the  Professors  with  reference  to  their  stud- 
ies; and  often  submit  their  theological  compositions,  espe- 
cially their  first  essays,  to  the  friendly  inspection  and  faithful 
remarks  of  one  or  more  of  the  said  Professors. 

TWENTY  FOURTH.  Each  Student,  once  at  least  in  every  year, 
shall  acquaint  the  Professors  with  the  books,  he  has  read, 
and  with  his  course  of  study,  during  said  year;  and  shall 
also  be  examined  in  the  original  languages  of  the  Old  and 
New  Testament,  and  in  the  Sepuagint  version  of  the  former ; 
also  with  reference  to  the  leading  sentiments  and  arguments 
of  the  principal  authors  he  has  perused ;  but  especially  with 
respect  to  the  style,  character,  and  design  of  those  sacred  wri- 
ters, which  agreeably  to  direction  he  has  particularly  studied. 

TWENTY  FIFTH.  If  upon  due  and  impartial  examination  it 
be  found,  that  any  Student  on  the  charitable  Foundation  afore- 
said, has  not  made  reasonable  proficiency  in  the  studies, 
prescribed  him,  he  shall  be  continued  thereon  no  longer; 
and,  if  any  Student  whatever  in  this  Seminary  shall  be 
guilty  of  any  gross  immorality,  or  of  any  insult  or  oppug- 
nation  to  the  said  TRUSTEES,  or  to  any  Professor  or  Officer 
of  this  Seminary,  he  shall  be  cut  off  from  all  the  advantages 
and  benefits  of  this  INSTITUTION,  unless  he  make  reasonable 
and  immediate  satisfaction  for  his  offence. 

TWENTY  SIXTH.  Whenever  a  Student  shall  have  honorably 
finished  his  term  and  course  of  study  under  the  direction  of 
the  Professors,  and  such  Student  shall  request  it;  a  Certifi- 
cate, signed  by  the  Professors,  specifying  how  long  such 


242       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER   THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

Student  has  studied  under  the  direction,  and  attended  the 
lectures  of  the  Professors,  that  he  has  prosecuted  his  studies 
with  diligence,  and  sustained  a  good  moral  character,  shall  be 
given  him ;  provided  always,  that  his  conduct,  and  his  profi- 
ciency in  theological  knowledge  be  such,  as  to  merit  the  same. 

TWENTY  SEVENTH.  After  the  expiration  of  the  first  three 
years  from  the  opening  of  this  INSTITUTION,  it  will  be  required 
of  all  persons,  who  may  wish  to  enjoy  the  advantages  of 
the  same,  that  they  statedly  reside  at  the  Seminary  three  full 
years,  vacations  excepted;  a  period  scarcely  sufficient  for 
acquiring  that  fund  of  knowledge,  which  is  necessary  for  a 
minister  of  the  gospel.  No  Student  therefore,  after  the  ex- 
piration of  the  first  three  years  of  the  INSTITUTION,  shall  be 
entitled  to  the  Certificate  aforesaid;  nor  can  any  one  leave 
the  Seminary  in  an  honorable  manner,  within  the  term  of 
three  years  of  such  residence,  except  by  permission,  specially 
obtained  of  the  TRUSTEES,  in  case  of  necessity. 

TWENTY  EIGHTH.  Every  morning  and  evening,  during  term 
time,  religious  exercises  shall  be  performed  in  the  chapel, 
and  these  exercises  shall  usually  be,  as  follows.  The  divine 
assistance  and  blessing  shall  be  first  implored  in  a  short 
prayer;  a  devotional  chapter  or  psalm  shall  then  be  read,  ac- 
companied with  pious  and  practical  reflections;  or,  instead 
of  this,  once  at  least  in  every  week,  an  exposition  shall  be 
given  upon  some  deeply  interesting  passage  of  scripture;  to 
this  shall  succeed  a  piece  of  genuine  psalmody ;  and  the  ser- 
vices be  concluded  by  an  appropriate  prayer.  In  these  ex- 
ercises the  Professors  shall  preside,  and  ordinarily  officiate; 
but  Students  of  two  years  standing  may  occasionally  perform 
them  in  whole  or  in  part,  according  to  the  desire  and  direc- 
tion of  the  Professors.  Moreover  as  soon,  as  circumstances 
will  permit,  a  regular  Church  will  be  formed  in  this  Semi- 
nary, consisting  chiefly  of  the  Professors,  Students,  and  fam- 
ilies, connected  with  this  Seminary  and  PHILLIPS  Academy; 
after  which,  if  not  before,  divine  services  will  be  publicly 
celebrated  in  the  chapel  of  the  Seminary,  in  the  forenoon  and 


CONSTITUTION    OF    THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY.       243 

afternoon  of  every  LORD'S  day,  during  term  time.  These  ser- 
vices shall  be  usually  performed  by  the  Professors;  but  some- 
times by  such  senior  Students,  as  may  have  obtained  per- 
mission of  the  Professors  to  preach  occasionally;  and  they 
shall  be  attended  by  all  the  Students  of  this  INSTITUTION,  and 
by  as  many  of  the  families  of  the  Professors  and  Officers, 
connected  with  it,  or  with  PHILLIPS  Academy,  as  may  wish 
for  this  privilege,  and  by  as  many  pupils  of  said  Academy, 
as  may  be  deemed  expedient  by  the  TRUSTEES  aforesaid. 

TWENTY  NINTH.  "The  senior  Students  will  be  required,  not 
only  to  prepare  sermons,  but  occasionally  to  deliver  them  in 
public,  both  in  the  Seminary  and  in  neighbouring  congrega- 
tions, as  may  be  judged  expedient  by  the  said  Professors.  No 
Student  however  shall  presume  to  preach,  before,  upon  thor- 
ough examination  of  his  qualifications  and  motives  for  preach- 
ing, he  shall  have  obtained  a  written  permission  therefor, 
subscribed  by  the  Professors,  or  a  major  part  of  them.  This 
permission  however  is  never  to  supersede  the  customary  ap- 
probation or  license  of  some  regular  Association  or  Presbytery. 

THIRTIETH.  Sacred  Music,  and  especially  Psalmody,  being 
an  important  part  of  public,  social  worship ;  and,  as  it  is  proper 
for  those,  who  are  to  preside  in  the  assemblies  of  God's  peo- 
ple, to  possess  themselves  so  much  skill  and  taste  in  this 
sublime  art,  as  at  least  to  distinguish  between  those  solemn 
movements,  which  are  congenial  to  pious  minds,  and  those 
unhallowed,  trifling,  medley  pieces,  which  chill  devotion;  it 
is  expected,  that  serious  attention  will  be  paid  to  the  culture 
of  a  true  taste  for  genuine  Church  Music  in  this  Seminary; 
and  that  all  Students  therein,  who  have  tolerable  voices,  will 
be  duly  instructed  in  the  theory  and  practice  of  this  celestial 
art;  and,  whenever  it  shall  be  in  the  power  of  either  of  the 
said  Professors,  it  shall  accordingly  be  his  duty  to  afford 
this  necessary  instruction;  and,  whenever  this  shall  not  be 
the  case,  it  is  expected,  that  an  Instructor  will  be  procured 
for  this  purpose. 

THIRTY  FIRST.  All  Professors,  Officers,  and  Students  in  this 


244       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY. 

Seminary,  and  all  other  persons,  employed  in  its  service,  to- 
gether with  the  Lands,  Buildings,  Library,  Funds,  and  all 
other  Property,  thereto  belonging;  shall  be  under  the  imme- 
diate inspection  and  government  of  the  TRUSTEES  aforesaid; 
and  be  regulated  and  managed  by  them  in  strict  conformity 
to  this  Constitution,  and  to  the  Statutes  and  Will  of  every 
FOUNDER  of  a  Professorship,  or  Benefactor  of  this  INSTITUTION. 
And  the  said  TRUSTEES  are  hereby  authorized  and  empowered 
to  make  such  additional  Regulations,  (not  inconsistent  with 
the  Regulations,  established  in  this  Constitution,  nor  with  the 
Statutes  or  Will  of  any  Founder  or  Donor,  nor  with  the  object 
of  this  Institution,  nor  in  any  degree  avoiding  them  or  either 
of  them)  as  they  in  their  wisdom  shall  deem  necessary  to 
give  the  fullest  efficacy  to  these  provisions,  or  to  the  con- 
sistent provisions  of  future  BENEFACTORS;  whether  such  Regu- 
lations may  relate  to  the  conduct  of  the  Professors,  the 
government  of  the  Students,  their  various  duties  and  exer- 
cises, their  lodging  and  diet,  the  prevention  and  punishment 
of  offences,  the  preservation  of  health,  the  promotion  of  order, 
peace,  and  harmony,  to  the  safety  of  the  Buildings,  or  to  the 
security  of  the  Funds,  which  last  are  to  be  effectually  guarded 
against  all  loss  and  diminution ;  in  a  word,  to  do  every  thing, 
under  the  foregoing  limitations,  which,  upon  serious  and  ma- 
ture deliberation,  may  appear  to  them  necessary  to  secure 
and  promote  the  true  object  of  this  INSTITUTION. 

THIRTY  SECOND.  Notwithstanding  this  Seminary  is  placed 
by  this  Constitution  under  the  immediate  care  and  govern- 
ment of  the  TRUSTEES  of  PHILLIPS  ACADEMY;  it  is  always  to  be 
understood,  and  it  is  hereby  expressly  declared,  that  every 
FOUNDER  of  a  Professorship,  Scholarship,  or  any  other  Living 
whatever,  in  this  INSTITUTION,  will  have  the  exclusive  right  of 
prescribing  the  Regulations  and  Statutes,  to  be  observed  by 
the  said  TRUSTEES  in  conducting  the  concerns  of  the  same, 
said  Regulations  and  Statutes  being  always  consistent  with 
the  principles  and  object  of  this  INSTITUTION;  and  also  the 
right,  for  the  term  of  his  life,  of  appointing  in  the  original 


CONSTITUTION    OF    THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY.       245 

deed  or  grant,  such  local  VISITOR  or  VISITORS,  as  he  may  think 
proper,  and  to  endow  him  or  them  with  all  visitatorial  powers 
and  authorities,  necessary  to  secure  and  enforce  due  observ- 
ance and  execution  of  his  said  Kegulations  and  Statutes. 

THIRTY  THIRD.  Whereas  the  necessary  business  of  this 
Seminary  will  be  sufficient  to  employ  the  said  TRUSTEES  one 
day  at  least  in  every  year;  they  are  requested  to  hold  an 
annual  meeting  for  transacting  the  same,  on  such  day  in 
each  year,  as  they  may  appoint;  and  likewise  to  meet  as 
much  oftener,  as  the  good  of  said  Seminary  may  require ;  and 
at  each  annual  meeting  to  read  this  Constitution.  The  rules 
and  modes  of  doing  business  at  all  such  meetings  shall  be 
the  same,  mutatis  mutandis,  which  are  prescribed  in  the  Con- 
stitution of  PHILLIPS  ACADEMY.  Decent,  not  extravagant  en- 
tertainment shall  be  made  for  the  TRUSTEES,  while  attending 
such  meetings;  reasonable  compensation  made  to  the  Treas- 
urer of  said  Academy  for  his  services;  and  other  necessary 
expenses  of  this  INSTITUTION  defrayed  out  of  the  income  of  its 
Funds.  It  is  also  particularly  requested,  that  all  the  trans- 
actions of  the  said  TRUSTEES,  relative  to  the  said  THEOLOGICAL 
INSTITUTION,  be  recorded  in  a  distinct  book;  and  likewise  that 
all  property  given,  devised,  or  bequeathed  for  the  support  of 
this  Seminary,  be  separated,  and  forever  kept  distinct  from 
all  other  property,  to  the  TRUSTEES  aforesaid  in  any  way  or 
for  any  other  purpose  entrusted,  being  never  blended  there- 
with, in  any  part  or  degree,  by  loan  or  purchase;  and  that 
the  said  Treasurer  accordingly  keep  all  his  accounts  and 
entries,  relative  to  these  Funds,  in  distinct  books;  and  all 
monies,  evidences  of  property,  receipts,  papers,  and  books 
of  account,  appertaining  to  this  INSTITUTION,  in  a  separate 
-trunk  or  chest,  prepared  for  prompt  removal  on  any  emer- 
gence ;  and  that  the  accounts  of  said  Treasurer  be  annually 
audited  by  a  Committee,  for  this  purpose  appointed,  who 
shall  report  to  the  said  TRUSTEES  in  writing. 

THIRTY  FOURTH.  Confiding  in  the  wisdom  and  fidelity  of 
the  said  TRUSTEES  and  their  Successors  in  office,  and  with  the 


246       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL  '  SEMINARY. 

pleasing  hope  and  expectation,  that  they  will  religiously- 
appropriate  the  aforesaid  Buildings,  and  the  income  of  the 
aforesaid  Fund,  and  of  all  future  Donations  for  the  same 
pious  purpose,  to  the  great  object  of  supporting  a  Theological 
Seminary,  such  as  herein  contemplated  and  described,  agree- 
ably to  the  Principles  and  Kegulations,  contained  in  this 
Constitution  ;  we  do  now,  under  GOD,  cheerfully  commit  this 
our  Foundation  to  their  pious  and  watchful  care;  trusting 
that  no  exertion  on  their  part  will  be  wanting  to  the  success 
of  an  INSTITUTION,  so  intimately  connected  with  the  glory  of 
GOD,  the  advancement  of  the  Redeemer's  kingdom,  and  the 
salvation  of  their  fellow  men. 

But,  while  we  thus  express  our  conviction  of  the  neces- 

sity and  utility  of  this  INSTITUTION,  it  is  our  earnest  prayer, 

that  our  own   minds,  and  the  minds  of  the  TRUSTEES,  Pro- 

fessors, Students,  and  all  connected  therewith,  may  be  ever 

penetrated  by  a  deep  sense  of  the  necessity  of  the  DIVINE  di- 

rection, influence,  and  blessing,  to  render  even  the  wisest  pro- 

visions and  the  best  human  instructions  ultimately  successful. 

To  the  SPIRIT  of  truth,  to  the  Divine  AUTHOR  of  our  faith, 

to  the  only  Wise  GOD,  we  desire  in  sincerity  to  present  this 

our  humble  offering  ;  devoutly  imploring  the  FATHER  of  lights, 

richly  to  endue  with  wisdom  from  above  all  his  servants,  the 

TRUSTEES  of  this  SEMINARY;  and  with  spiritual  understanding 

the  Professors  therein;  that,  being  illuminated  by  the  HOLY 

SPIRIT,  their  doctrine  may  drop,  as  the  rain,  and  their  speech 

distil,  as  the  dew;  and  that  their  Pupils  may  become  trees  of 

renown  in  the  courts  of  our  GOD,  whereby  HE  may  be  glorified. 

In  witness  whereof  we,  the  Subscribers,  have  hereunto  set 

I   our  hands  and  seals  this  thirty  first  day  of  August  in  the 

1  year  of  our  Lord  one  thousand  eight  hundred  and  seven. 


PH(EBE  PHILLIPS  (S.) 

SAMUEL  STEARNS,                          JQHN  pHILLIpg   Jun  (&) 
JOSEPH  r  HELPS, 

AMOS  BLANCHARD.                        SAMUEL  ABBOT  (S.) 


ADDITIONAL    STATUTES.  247 

VI. 
ADDITIONAL    STATUTES. 

WE,  the  Subscribers,  having  made  some  provision  for  the 
establishment  of  a  THEOLOGICAL  INSTITUTION  in  connexion  with 
PHILLIPS  ACADEMY,  by  covenanting  to  erect  certain  Buildings 
therefor,  and  by  laying  a  Foundation  for  a  Professorship  of 
Christian  Theology  therein;  and  having  given  a  Constitution, 
containing  Principles  and  Regulations  for  the  management 
of  the  said  INSTITUTION,  which  has  been  accepted  by  the  TRUS- 
TEES of  said  ACADEMY;  in  which  we  "reserved  to  ourselves, 
during  our  natural  lives,  the  right  jointly  to  make  any  addi- 
tional Regulations,  or  to  alter  any  Rule,  therein  prescribed, 
provided  such  Regulation,  or  alteration,  be  not  prejudicial  to 
the  true  design  of  said  Foundation." — We  do  now,  agreeably 
to  the  said  reserved  right,  and  in  furtherance,  as  we  trust,  of 
our  original  design,  therein  expressed,  make  and  ordain  the 
following  Articles,  to  be  added  to,  and  taken,  as  a  part  of 
our  said  Constitution ;  Provided  the  said  TRUSTEES  shall  accept 
the  Statutes  and  Foundation  of  the  ASSOCIATE  FOUNDERS,  so 
called,  viz.,  of  MOSES  BROWN  and  WILLIAM  BARTLETT  Esquires  of 
Newbury  Port,  and  the  Honorable  JOHN  NORRIS  Esquire  of 
Salem,  which  are  now  executed,  and  to  be  laid  before  the 
said  TRUSTEES,  at  their  approaching  meeting,  for  their  ac- 
ceptance; and  to  continue  of  full  force,  as  a.  part  of  our  said 
Constitution,  so  long,  as  the  said  Associate  Foundation  shall 
continue  attached  to  our  said  INSTITUTION,  and  no  longer. 

FIRST.  Having  provided  in  the  twelfth  Article  of  our  said- 
Constitution,  that  "  every  person,  appointed  or  elected  a  Pro- 
fessor in  the  said  Seminary,  shall  on  the  day  of  his  inaugura- 
tion into  office  publicly  make  and  subscribe  a  Declaration  of 
his  faith  in  Divine  Revelation,  and  in  the  fundamental  and 
distinguishing  doctrines  of  the  Gospel  of  Christ,  as  summarily 


248       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

expressed  in  the  Westminster  Assembly's  Shorter  Catechism ; " 
We  now  ordain  the  following  addition,  to  be  inserted  in  said 
Article,  in  connexion  with  the  said  clause,  viz.,  "  and  as  more 
particularly  expressed  in  the  following  Creed,  to  wit, 

"  I  believe  that  there  is  one  and  but  one  living  and  true 
GOD;  that  the  word  of  GOD,  contained  in  the  Scriptures  of  the 
Old  and  New  Testament,  is  the  only  perfect  rule  of  faith  and 
practice;  that  agreeably  to  those  Scriptures  GOD  is  a  Spirit, 
infinite,  eternal,  and  unchangeable  in  his  being,  wisdom, 
power,  holiness,  justice,  goodness,  and  truth;  that  in  the 
Godhead  are  Three  Persons,  the  FATHER,  the  SON,  and  the 
HOLY  GHOST  ;  and  that  these  THREE  are  ONE  GOD,  the  same  in 
substance,  equal  in  power  and  glory ;  that  GOD  created  man, 
after  his  own  image,  in  knowledge,  righteousness,  and  holi- 
ness; that  the  glory  of  GOD  is  man's  chief  end,  and  the  en- 
joyment of  GOD  his  supreme  happiness;  that  this  enjoyment 
is  derived  solely  from  conformity  of  heart  to  the  moral 
character  and  will  of  GOD;  that  ADAM,  the  federal  head  and 
representative  of  the  human  race,  was  placed  in  a  state  of 
probation,  and  that,  in  consequence  of  his  disobedience,  all 
his  descendants  were  constituted  sinners;  that  by  nature 
every  man  is  personally  depraved,  destitute  of  holiness,  un- 
like and  opposed  to  GOD;  and  that,  previously  to  the  renew- 
ing agency  of  the  DIVINE  SPIRIT,  all  his  moral  actions  are 
adverse  to  the  character  and  glory  of  GOD;  that,  being  mor- 
ally incapable  of  recovering  the  image  of  his  CREATOR,  which 
was  lost  in  ADAM,  every  man  is  justly  exposed  to  eternal 
damnation;  so  tfyat,  except  a  man  be  born  again,  he  cannot 
see  the  kingdom  of  GOD;  that  GOD,  of  his  mere  good  pleasure, 
from  all  eternity  elected  some  to  everlasting  life,  and  that 
he  entered  into  a  covenant  of  grace,  to  deliver  them  out  of 
this  state  of  sin  and  misery  by  a  EEDEEMER;  that  the  only 
REDEEMER  of  the  elect  is  the  eternal  SON  of  GOD,  who  for  this 
purpose,  became  man,  and  continues  to  be  GOD  and  man  in 
two  distinct  natures  and  one  person  forever ;  that  CHRIST,  as  our 
Redeemer,  executeth  the  office  of  a  Prophet,  Priest,  and  King; 


ADDITIONAL    STATUTES.  249 

that,  agreeably  to  the  covenant  of  redemption,  the  SON  of 
GOD,  and  he  alone,  by  his  sufferings  and  death,  has  made 
atonement  for  the  sins  of  all  men ;  that  repentance,  faith,  and 
holiness  are  the  personal  requisites  in  the  Gospel  scheme  of 
salvation ;  that  the  righteousness  of  CHRIST  is  the  only  ground 
of  a  sinner's  justification ;  that  this  righteousness  is  received 
through  faith ;  and  that  this  faith  is  the  gift  of  GOD  ;  so  that 
our  salvation  is  wholly  of  grace;  that  no  means  whatever 
can  change  the  heart  of  a  sinner,  and  make  it  holy;  that  re- 
generation and  sanctifi cation  are  effects  of  the  creating  and 
renewing  agency  of  the  HOLY  SPIRIT,  and  that  supreme  love 
to  GOD  constitutes  the  essential  difference  between  saints  and 
sinners;  that  by  convincing  us  of  our  sin  and  misery,  en- 
lightening our  minds,  working  faith  in  us,  and  renewing  our 
wills,  the  HOLY  SPIRIT  makes  us  partakers  of  the  benefits  of 
redemption;  and  that  the  ordinary  means,  by  which  these 
benefits  are  communicated  to  us,  are  the  word,  sacraments, 
and  prayer;  that  repentance  unto  life,  faith  to  feed  upon 
Christ,  love  to  GOD,  and  new  obedience,  are  the  appropriate 
qualifications  for  the  Lord's  Supper;  and  that  a  Christian 
Church  ought  to  admit  no  person  to  its  holy  communion, 
before  he  exhibit  credible  evidence  of  his  godly  sincerity; 
that  perseverance  in  holiness  is  the  only  method  of  making 
our  calling  and  election  sure;  and  that  the  final  perseverance 
of  saints,  though  it  is  the  effect  of  the  special  operation  of 
GOD  on  their  hearts,  necessarily  implies  their  own  watchful 
diligence;  that  they,  who  are  effectually  called,  do  in  this 
life  partake  of  justification,  adoption,  and  sanctifi  cation,  and  the 
several  benefits,  which  do  either  accompany  or  flow  from  them ; 
that  the  souls  of  believers  are  at  their  death  made  perfect  in 
holiness,  and  do  immediately  pass  into  glory;  that  their  bodies, 
being  still  united  to  CHRIST,  will  at  the  resurrection  be  raised 
up  to  glory,  and  that  the  saints  will  be  made  perfectly  blessed 
in  the  full  enjoyment  of  GOD  to  all  eternity;  but  that  the 
wicked  will  awake  to  shame  and  everlasting  contempt,  and 
with  devils  be  plunged  into  the  lake,  that  burneth  with  fire 


250      HISTORY  OF  ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL   SEMINARY. 

and  brimstone  forever  and  ever.  I  moreover  believe  that 
God,  according  to  the  counsel  of  his  own  will,  and  for  his 
own  glory,  hath  foreordained  whatsoever  comes  to  pass,  and 
that  all  beings,  actions,  and  events,  both  in  the  natural  and 
moral  world,  are  under  his  providential  direction ;  that  GOD'S 
decrees  perfectly  consist  with  human  liberty ;  GOD'S  universal 
agency  with  the  agency  of  man;  and  man's  dependence  with 
his  accountability;  that  man  has  understanding  and  corpo- 
real strength  to  do  all,  that  GOD  requires  of  him ;  so  that  noth- 
ing, but  the  sinner's  aversion  to  holiness,  prevents  his  sal- 
vation; that  it  is  the  prerogative  of  GOD,  to  bring  good  out 
of  evil,  and  that  he  will  cause  the  wrath  and  rage  of  wicked 
men  and  devils  to  praise  Him;  and  that  all  the  evil,  which 
has  existed,  and  will  forever  exist  in  the  moral  system,  will 
eventually  be  made  to  promote  a  most  important  purpose 
under  the  wise  and  perfect  administration  of  that  ALMIGHTY 
BEING,  who  will  cause  all  things  to  work  for  his  own  glory, 
and  thus  fulfil  all  his  pleasure." 

SECOND.  That  the  trust  aforesaid  may  be  always  executed 
agreeably  to  the  true  intent  of  our  said  Foundation ;  and  that 
we  may  effectually  guard  the  same,  in  all  future  time,  against 
all  perversion,  or  the  smallest  avoidance  of  our  true  design, 
as  therein  expressed ; — We  do  hereby  constitute  a  Board  of 
VISITORS,  to  be,  as  in  our  place  and  stead,  the  Guardians, 
Overseers,  and  Protectors  of  our  said  Foundation,  in  manner, 
as  is  expressed  in  the  following  provisions;  that  is  to  say,  we 
appoint  and  constitute  the  Honorable  CABEL  STRONG,  Esquire, 
late  Governor  of  the  Commonwealth  of  Massachusetts,  the 
Keverend  TIMOTHY  DWIGHT,  D.D.,  President  of  Yale  College, 
and  the  Reverend  SAMUEL  SPRING,  D.D.,  of  Newbury  Port, 
VISITORS  of  the  said  Foundation;  who  with  their  Successors 
in  office,  to  be  chosen,  as  herein  after  directed,  shall  be  a  per- 
petual body  for  this  purpose,  with  all  the  powers  and  duties, 
in  them  herein  vested,  and  on  them  enjoined ;  but  we  do  never- 
theless reserve  to  SAMUEL  ABBOT,  one  of  the  Subscribers,  the 
right  of  visiting,  in  connection  with  the  said  Board,  and  dur- 


ADDITIONAL    STATUTES.  251 

ing  liis  natural  life,  the  said  Foundation;  and  we  do  more- 
over confer  on  MOSES  BROWN  and  WILLIAM  BARTLETT,  Esquires, 
of  Newbury  Port,  and  the  Honorable  JOHN  N  ORRIS,  Esquire, 
of  Salem,  the  ASSOCIATE  FOUNDERS,  above  named,  the  right  of 
visiting  the  said  Foundation  in  the  same  manner  with  the 
said  SAMUEL  ABBOT,  during  their  natural  lives  respectively; 
each  of  the  said  four  FOUNDERS,  so  long  as  he  shall  retain  his 
seat  at  the  Board,  shall  possess  and  exercise  all  the  rights 
and  powers,  herein  given  to  a  VISITOR  of  the  said  Founda- 
tion ;  though  upon  the  resignation  or  demise  of  either  of  the 
said  FOUNDERS,  his  place  shall  not  be  supplied  by  election  of 
a  VISITOR,  to  succeed  him ;  and,  after  the  demise  or  resigna- 
tion of  the  said  four  persons,  last  above  named,  as  FOUNDERS, 
the  said  Board  shall  never  consist  of  more  than  three  mem- 
bers ;  and  it  is  farther  expressly  provided,  that  the  perpetual 
Board  of  VISITORS,  first  herein  named,  shall  consist  of  two 
Clergymen  and  one  Layman,  all  of  whom  shall  be  men  of 
distinguished  talents  and  piety. 

THIRD.  We  do  farther  provide  and  ordain,  that  no  person 
shall  be  eligible,  as  a  VISITOR,  under  the  age  of  forty  years ; 
nor  shall  any  person,  except  the  seven,  herein  just  named, 
hold  the  office  of  VISITOR  after  the  age  of  seventy  years ;  and 
whenever,  with  the  exception  aforesaid,  any  VISITOR  shall 
have  completed  the  sixty  ninth  year  of  his  age,  the  Board 
shall,  within  the  year  next  ensuing,  choose  some  suitable 
person,  to  succeed  him;  but  the  VISITOR  elect  shall  not  take 
his  seat  at  the  Board,  before  his  said  Predecessor  shall  have 
completed  his  seventieth  year,  or  formally  resigned  his  office 
of  VISITOR;  and  no  resignation  of  any  member  at  an  earlier 
age  shall  be  accepted  by  this  Board,  before  a  Successor  shall 
have  been  chosen. 

FOURTH.  The  Board  of  VISITORS  shall  meet  on  the  seven- 
teenth day  of  May  current  at  Andover,  and  ever  after  once 
in  every  year  at  the  aforesaid  THEOLOGICAL  INSTITUTION,  to  ex- 
ecute the  business  of  their  appointment,  on  such  day,  as 
they  shall  assign ;  also  upon  emergencies,  when  called  there- 


252       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

to,  as  herein  after  directed;  and  a  majority  of  the  VISITORS, 
when  regularly  convened,  shall  be  a  Quorum,  of  which 
Quorum  a  major  part  shall  have  power  to  transact  the  busi- 
ness of  their  Commission;  and,  in  case  of  an  equivote,  the 
question  shall  determine  on  that  side,  on  which  the  pre- 
siding member  shall  have  voted. 

FIFTH.  There  shall  be  annually  chosen  by  ballot  a  Presi- 
dent and  Secretary,  as  Officers  of  the  Board,  out  of  their 
own  number;  who  shall  continue  in  their  respective  offices, 
till  their  places  be  supplied  by  new  elections ;  and,  upon  the 
decease  of  either  of  them,  another  shall  be  chosen  in  his 
room  at  the  next  meeting. 

SIXTH.  The  President,  or  in  case  of  his  death,  resignation, 
or  absence  from  the  country,  the  Secretary  shall,  upon  all 
necessary  occasions,  call  special  meetings  of  the  Board;  and 
his  notifications  shall  express  the  business,  to  be  transacted 
at  such  meetings,  and  be  given  as  early,  as  possible ;  and  in 
the  absence  of  the  President,  at  any  meeting,  the  Secretary 
shall  preside. 

SEVENTH.  The  Secretary  shall  keep  a  fair  record  of  all  the 
transactions  of  the  VISITORS  at  every  meeting  of  the  Board, 
inserting  the  names  of  the  members  present;  and  in  his  ab- 
sence another  shall  be  appointed  in  his  room. 

EIGHTH.  The  VISITORS  shall  remove  any  member  of  their 
Board  for  immorality,  incapacity,  or  signal  neglect  of  duty. 

NINTH.  Upon  the  death,  resignation,  or  removal  of  a  VIS- 
ITOR, (except  only  upon  the  demise  or  resignation  of  a  FOUNDER) 
the  Board  of  VISITORS  shall  at  their  next  meeting,  by  ballot, 
elect  another  in  his  stead;  and  ever  after  from  time  to  time, 
as  a  vacancy  shall  take  place  in  this  Board,  they  shall  supply 
it;  and  every  person,  so  elected,  previously  to  his  taking  his 
seat  at  the  Board,  shall  make  and  subscribe  the  following 
Declaration,  namely ;  "  Approving  the  Constitution  of  the 
THEOLOGICAL  INSTITUTION,  I  solemnly  declare  in  the  presence  of 
GOD  and  of  this  Board,  that  I  will  faithfully  exert  my  abil- 
ities to  carry  into  execution  the  Regulations,  therein  contained 


ADDITIONAL    STATUTES.  253 

and  to  promote  the  great  object  of  the  INSTITUTION;" — And 
shall  moreover  in  like  manner  subscribe  the  same  theolog- 
ical Creed,  which  every  Professor  elect  is  required  to  sub- 
scribe ;  and  a  Declaration  of  his  faith  in  the  same  Creed  shall 
be  repeated  by  him  at  every  successive  period  of  five  years; 
and,  if  in  the  course  of  events  the  number  of  VISITORS  shall, 
by  any  special  providence  of  GOD,  be  reduced  to  one,  the  re- 
maining VISITOR  shall  have  power  to  appoint  one  suitable  per- 
son, to  be  a  VISITOR  of  the  said  Foundation;  and  these  two 
VISITORS  shall  at  their  first  regular  meeting  supply  the  re- 
maining vacancy  in  the  Board. 

TENTH.  The  power  and  duties  of  the  Board  of  VISITORS, 
thus  constituted  and  organized,  shall  be,  as  follows,  namely, 
to  visit  the  said  Foundation  once  in  every  year,  and  at  other 
times,  when  regularly  called  thereto;  to  inquire  into  the  state 
of  the  said  fund,  and  the  management  of  the  said  Founda- 
tion, with  respect  to  the  said  Professor;  to  determine,  inter- 
pret, and  explain  the  Statutes  of  the  said  Foundation  in  all 
cases,  brought  before  them  in  their  judicial  capacity;  to  re- 
dress grievances  with  respect  to  the  said  Professor;  to  hear 
appeals  from  decisions  of  the  Board  of  TRUSTEES,  and  to  rem- 
edy upon  complaint,  duly  exhibited  in  behalf  of  the  said 
Professor;  to  review  and  reverse  any  censure,  passed  by  said 
TRUSTEES  upon  any  Professor  on  said  Foundation ;  to  declare 
void  all  Kules  and  Kegulations,  made  by  the  said  TRUSTEES, 
relative  to  said  Foundation,  which  may  be  inconsistent  with 
the  original  Statutes  thereof;  to  take  care,  that  the  duties  of 
each  Professor  on  said  Foundation  be  intelligibly  and  faith- 
fully discharged,  and  to  admonish  or  remove  him,  either  for 
misbehaviour,  heterodoxy,  incapacity,  or  neglect  of  the  duties 
of  his  office;  and  in  general  to  see,  that  our  true  intentions, 
as  expressed  in  our  said  Constitution,  in  relation  to  said 
Professor,  be  faithfully  executed;  always  administering  jus- 
tice impartially,  and  exercising  the  functions  of  their  office 
in  the  fear  of  GOD,  according  to  these  Regulations,  the  Pro- 
visions of  the  said  Constitution,  and  the  Laws  of  the  land. 


254       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

ELEVENTH.  Every  election  of  a  Professor  on  said  Founda- 
tion shall  within  ten  days  be  presented  to  the  VISITORS;  who 
are  hereby  vested  with  the  power  and  right  of  approving  or 
negativing,  at  a  regular  meeting,  every  such  election.  But, 
if  any  such  election  be  not  thus  either  approved  or  negatived 
by  the  said  VISITORS  within  twelve  months  from  the  com 
mencement  of  a  vacancy  in  said  Professorship;  such  election 
shall  be  considered,  as  approved  by  the  VISITORS,  and  shall 
accordingly  be  deemed  constitutional  and  valid;  provided 
always,  that  such  election  shall  have  been  regularly  com 
municated  to  the  President  or  Secretary  of  the  Board  of  VIS- 
ITORS ten  days  at  least  previously  to  the  expiration  of  the 
twelve  months  aforesaid. 

TWELFTH.  The  Board  of  VISITORS  in  all  their  proceedings 
are  to  be  subject  to  our  Statutes,  herein  expressed,  and  to 
those,  contained  in  our  said  Constitution,  and  to  conform 
their  measures  accordingly;  and,  if  they  shall  at  any  time 
act  contrary  thereto,  or  exceed  the  limits  of  their  jurisdic- 
tion and  constitutional  power,  the  party  aggrieved  may 
have  recourse  by  appeal  to  the  JUSTICES  of  the  SUPREME  JU- 
DICIAL COURT  of  this  Commonwealth,  for  the  time  being,  for 
remedy;  who  are  hereby  appointed  and  authorized  to  judge 
in  such  case;  and,  agreeably  to  the  determination  of  the 
major  part  of  them,  to  declare  null  and  void  any  decree  or 
sentence  of  the  said  VISITORS,  which  upon  mature  considera- 
tion they  may  deem  contrary  to  the  said  Statutes,  or  beyond 
the  just  limits  of  their  power,  herein  prescribed ;  and  by  the 
said  JUSTICES  of  the  SUPREME  JUDICIAL  COURT,  for  the  time  be- 
ing, shall  the  said  Board  of  VISITORS  at  all  times  be  subject  to  be 
restrained  and  corrected  in  the  undue  exercise  of  their  office. 

THIRTEENTH.  At  all  meetings  of  the  VISITORS  decent  enter- 
tainment shall  be  made  by  direction  of  the  Board,  and  at 
the  expense  of  the  Foundation. 

FINALLY.  Commending  the  said  INSTITUTION,  and  all,  con- 
cerned in  the  management  thereof,  to  the  blessing  of  HEAVEN  ; 
and  in  witness  of  what  is  contained  in  this  and  the  seven 


ADDITIONAL    STATUTES.  255 

preceding  pages,  we  hereunto  set  our  hands  and  seals,  this 
third  day  of  May  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  one  thousand  eight 
hundred  and  eight. 

SAMUEL  ABBOT  (S.) 

MOSES  WOOD,  PHCEBE  PHILLIPS         (S.) 

AMOS  BLANCHARD.  JOHN  PHILLIPS,  Jun.  (S.) 


VII. 
ASSOCIATE    STATUTES. 

SERIOUSLY  reflecting  upon  the  fatal  effects  of  the  apostasy 
of  man  without  a  Savior,  on  the  merciful  object  of  the  SON 
of  GOD  in  assuming  our  nature  and  dying  for  our  salvation, 
and  upon  the  wisdom  of  his  appointment  of  an  order  of  men, 
to  preach  his  Gospel  in  the  world;  considering  also  that,  not- 
withstanding this  appointment,  by  far  the  greatest  part  of 
the  human  race  is  still  perishing  for  lack  of  vision ;  and  that 
even  in  countries,  where  the  Gospel  is  enjoyed,  infidelity, 
error,  and  immorality  greatly  abound;  feeling  it  to  be  our 
duty,  to  conspire  with  the  benevolent  design  of  this  appoint- 
ment; and  being  desirous  of  contributing  according  to  our 
ability  towards  its  success,  and  of  expressing  in  this  imper- 
fect manner  our  sense  of  obligation  to  our  compassionate 
EEDEEMER;  We,  MOSES  BROWN  and  WILLIAM  BARTLETT,  both  of 
Newbury  Port,  Merchants,  and  JOHN  NORRIS  of  Salem  Esquire, 
all  of  the  County  of  Essex  and  Commonwealth  of  Massachu- 
setts, being  influenced,  as  we  hope,  by  a  principle  of  grati- 
tude to  GOD  and  benevolence  to  man,  have  determined  to 
devote  a  part  of  the  substance,  with  which  Heaven  has 
blessed  us,  to  the  defense  and  promotion  of  the  Christian 
Religion,  by  making  some  provision  for  increasing  the  num- 


256      HISTORY  OF  ANDOVER   THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY. 

ber  of  learned  and  able  Defenders  of  the  Gospel  of  CHRIST  as 
well,  as  of  orthodox,  pious,  and  zealous  Ministers  of  the  New 
Testament;  and  we  do  accordingly  hereby  give,  assign,  and 
set  over  to  the  TRUSTEES  of  PHILLIPS  ACADEMY,  and  to  their 
Successors  in  office,  the  sum  of  ten  thousand  dollars  each, 
amounting  to  thirty  thousand  dollars;  to  which  sum  I,  WIL- 
LIAM BARTLETT,  add  the  farther  sum  of  ten  thousand  dollars,1 
for  the  purpose  of  supporting  one  of  the  two  Professors,  here- 
in after  named,  (the  whole  amounting  to  forty  thousand  dol- 
lars,) in  SACRED  TRUST,  as  a  capital  Fund,  to  be  disposed  of  in 
the  manner  and  for  the  purposes  following;  that  is  to  say, 
the  said  sum  of  money  to  be  kept  out  at  interest  on  good  se- 
curity, or  otherwise  in  whole  or  in  part  vested,  as  the  said 
TRUSTEES  shall  deem  best,  in  productive  real  estate,  or  in  sure 
and  permanent  Funds;  and  the  interest  or  annual  income 
of  said  capital  Fund  to  be  applied  to  the  maintenance  of  two 
Professors  in  the  THEOLOGICAL  INSTITUTION  or  SEMINARY,  lately 
founded  in  the  Town  of  Andover,  and  County  aforesaid;  who 
shall,  agreeably  to  the  permanent  Creed,  herein  after  men- 
tioned, faithfully  teach  that  revealed  Holy  Keligion  only, 
which  GOD  constantly  teaches  man  by  his  glorious  works  of 
Creation,  Providence,  and  Kedemption;  whose  professional 
duties  shall  be  assigned,  according  to  the  Constitution  of  the 
Seminary,  in  such  manner,  as  shall  most  directly  and  effect- 
ually promote  the  great  object  of  the  INSTITUTION;  reserving 
to  ourselves  the  right,  jointly  to  make  the  first  appointment 
of  one  of  the  said  Professors,  and  to  the  said  WILLIAM  BART- 
LETT  severally  the  right,  to  make  the  first  appointment  of  the 
other  of  the  said  Professors;  and  also  toward  the  mainte- 
nance of  such  Students  in  Divinity,  as  may  be  proper  Can- 
didates for  gratuitous  support,  and  shall  be  approved  and 
recommended  by  the  Board  of  VISITORS,  herein  after  con- 
stituted, or  by  a  Committee  of  their  appointment,  agreeably 
to  the  following  STATUTES,  namely, 

1  To  this  sum  an  addition  of  ten  thousand  dollars  was  made  by  the  Founder 
soon  after  the  execution  of  these  Statutes. 


ASSOCIATE    STATUTES.  257 

FIRST.  The  Fund  aforesaid  shall  be  kept  distinct  from  all 
other  property,  to  the  same  TRUSTEES  belonging,  being  never 
blended  therewith  by  loan  or  purchase ;  and  their  Treasurer 
shall  accordingly  keep  all  accounts,  relative  thereto,  in  dis- 
tinct books;  and  all  monies,  evidences  of  property,  receipts, 
papers,  and  books  of  account,  appertaining  to  said  Fund, 
in  a  trunk,  or  chest,  prepared  for  prompt  removal. 

SECOND.  Every  Professor  on  the  ASSOCIATE  FOUNDATION  shall 
be  a  Master  of  Arts,  of  the  Protestant  Reformed  Religion,  an 
ordained  Minister  of  the  Congregational  or  Presbyterian  de- 
nomination, and  shall  sustain  the  character  of  a  discreet,  hon- 
est, learned,  and  devout  Christian ;  an  orthodox  and  consistent 
Calvinist;  and  after  a  careful  examination  by  the  VISITORS 
with  reference  to  his  religious  principles,  he  shall,  on  the  day 
of  his  inauguration,  publicly  make  and  subscribe  a  solemn 
Declaration  of  his  faith  in  Divine  Revelation,  and  in  the  fun- 
damental and  distinguishing  doctrines  of  the  Gospel,  as  ex- 
pressed in  the  following  Creed;  which  is  supported  by  the 
infallible  Revelation,  which  GOD  constantly  makes  of  HIMSELF, 
in  his  works  of  creation,  providence,  and  redemption ;  namely, 

I  believe  that  there  is  one  and  but  one  living  and  true 
GOD  ;  that  the  word  of  GOD,  contained  in  the  Scriptures  of  the 
Old  and  New  Testament,  is  the  only  perfect  rule  of  faith  and 
practice ;  that  agreeably  to  these  Scriptures  GOD  is  a  Spirit, 
infinite,  eternal,  and  unchangeable  in  his  being,  wisdom, 
power,  holiness,  justice,  goodness,  and  truth;  that  in  the 
GODHEAD  are  three  Persons,  the  FATHER,  the  SON,  and  the  HOLY 
GHOST;  and  that  these  THREE  are  One  GOD,  the  same  in  sub- 
stance, equal  in  power  and  glory;  that  GOD  created  man, 
after  his  own  image,  in  knowledge,  righteousness,  and  holi- 
ness ;  that  the  glory  of  GOD  is  man's  chief  end,  and  the  en- 
joyment of  GOD  his  supreme  happiness;  that  this  enjoyment 
is  derived  solely  from  conformity  of  heart  to  the  moral  char- 
acter and  will  of  GOD  ;  that  ADAM,  the  federal  head  and  rep- 
resentative of  the  human  race,  was  placed  in  a  state  of 
probation,  and  that,  in  consequence  of  his  disobedience, 


258       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

all  his  descendants  were  constituted  sinners;  that  by  nature 

i  every  man  is  personally  depraved,  destitute  of  holiness, 
unlike  and  opposed  to  GOD;  and  that,  previously  to  the  re- 
newing agency  of  the  DIVINE  SPIRIT,  all  his  moral  actions  are 
adverse  to  the  character  and  glory  of  GOD;  that,  being 
morally  incapable  of  recovering  the  image  of  his  CREATOR, 
which  was  lost  in  ADAM,  every  man  is  justly  exposed  to 
eternal  damnation;  so  that,  except  a  man  be  born  again,  he 
cannot  see  the  kingdom  of  GOD;  that  GOD,  of  his  mere 
good  pleasure,  from  all  eternity  elected  some  to  everlasting 
life,  and  that  he  entered  into  a  covenant  of  grace,  to  deliver 
them  out  of  this  state  of  misery  by  a  KEDEEMER;  that  the 
only  REDEEMER  of  the  elect  is  the  eternal  SON  of  GOD,  who 
for  this  purpose  became  man,  and  continues  to  be  GOD  and 
man  in  two  distinct  natures  and  one  person  forever;  that 
CHRIST,  as  our  Redeemer,  executeth  the  office  of  a  Prophet, 
Priest,  and  King;  that,"  agreeably  to  the  covenant  of  re- 
demption, the  SON  of  GOD,  and  he  alone,  by  his  sufferings 
and  death,  has  made  atonement  for  the  sins  of  all  men ;  that 
repentance,  faith,  and  holiness  are  the  personal  requisites 
in  the  Gospel  scheme  of  salvation;  that  the  righteousness 
of  CHRIST  is  the  only  ground  of  a  sinner's  justification;  that 
this  righteousness  is  received  through  faith;  and  that  this 
faith  is  the  gift  of  GOD  ;  so  that  our  salvation  is  wholly  of 
grace;  that  no  means  whatever  can  change  the  heart  of  a 
sinner,  and  make  it  holy;  that  regeneration  and  sanctifica- 
tion  are  effects  of  the  creating  and  renewing  agency  of  the 
HOLY  SPIRIT,  and  that  supreme  love  to  GOD  constitutes  the 
essential  difference  between  saints  and  sinners;  that  by 
convincing  us  of  our  sin  and  misery,  enlightening  our 
minds,  working  faith  in  us,  and  renewing  our  wills,  the  HOLY 
SPIRIT  makes  us  partakers  of  the  benefits  of  redemption;  and 
that  the  ordinary  means,  by  which  these  benefits  are  communi- 
cated to  us,  are  the  word,  sacraments  and  prayer;  that  re- 
pentance unto  life,  faith  to  feed  upon  CHRIST,  love  to  GOD, 
and  new  obedience,  are  the  appropriate  qualifications  for 


ASSOCIATE    STATUTES.  259 

the  Lord's  Supper;  and  that  a  Christian  Church  ought  to 
admit  no  person  to  its  holy  communion,  before  he  exhibit 
credible  evidence  of  his  godly  sincerity;  that  perseverance 
in  holiness  is  the  only  method  of  making  our  calling  and 
election  sure;  and  that  the  final  perseverance  of  saints, 
though  it  is  the  effect  of  the  special  operation  of  GOD  on  their 
hearts,  necessarily  implies  their  own  watchful  diligence; 
that  they,  who  are  effectually  called,  do  in  this  life  partake 
of  justification,  adoption,  and  sanctification,  and  the  several 
benefits,  which  do  either  accompany  or  flow  from  them ;  that 
the  souls  of  believers  are  at  their  death  made  perfect  in 
holiness,  and  do  immediately  pass  into  glory;  that  their 
bodies,  being  still  united  to  CHRIST,  will  at  the  resurrection 
be  raised  up  to  glory,  and  that  the  saints  will  be  made 
perfectly  blessed  in  the  full  enjoyment  of  GOD  to  all  eternity ; 
but  that  the  wicked  will  awake  to  shame  and  everlasting 
contempt,  and  with  devils  he  plunged  into  the  lake,  that 
burneth  with  fire  and  brimstone  forever  and  ever.  I  more- 
over believe  that  GOD,  according  to  the  counsel  of  his  own 
will,  and  for  his  own  glory,  hath  foreordained  whatsoever 
comes  to  pass,  and  that  all  beings,  actions,  and  events,  both 
in  the  natural  and  moral  world,  are  under  his  providential 
direction;  that  GOD'S  decrees  perfectly  consist  with  human 
liberty;  GOD'S  universal  agency  with  the  agency  of  man;  and 
man's  dependence  with  his  accountability ;  that  man  has  un- 
derstanding and  corporeal  strength  to  do  all,  that  GOD  re- 
quires of  him ;  so  that  nothing,  but  the  sinner's  aversion  to 
holiness,  prevents  his  salvation ;  that  it  is  the  prerogative  of 
GOD,  to  bring  good  out  of  evil,  and  that  He  will  cause  the 
wrath  and  rage  of  wicked  men  and  devils  to  praise  Him ;  and 
that  all  the  evil,  which  has  existed,  and  will  forever  exist 
in  the  moral  system,  will  eventually  be  made  to  promote  a 
most  important  purpose  under  the  wise  and  perfect  adminis- 
tration of  that  ALMIGHTY  BEING,  who  will  cause  all  things  to 
work  for  his  own  glory,  and  thus  fulfil  all  his  pleasure. — And 
farther  more  I  do  solemnly  promise  that  I  will  open  and  ex- 


260       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

plain  the  Scriptures  to  my  Pupils  with  integrity  and  faith- 
fulness; that  I  will  maintain  and  inculcate  the  Christian 
faith,  as  expressed  in  the  Creed,  by  me  now  repeated,  to- 
gether with  all  the  other  doctrines  and  duties  of  our  holy 
Keligion,  so  far,  as  may  appertain  to  my  office,  according  to 
the  best  light,  GOD  shall  give  me,  and  in  opposition,  not  only 
to  Atheists  and  Infidels,  but  to  Jews,  Papists,  Mahometans, 
Arians,  Pelagians,  Antinomians,  Arminians,  Socinians,  Sabel- 
lians,  Unitarians,  and  Universalists;  and  to  all  heresies  and 
errors,  antient  or  modern,  which  may  be  opposed  to  the  Gos- 
pel of  CHRIST,  or  hazardous  to  the  souls  of  men;  that  by  my 
instruction,  counsel,  and  example,  I  will  endeavour  to  pro- 
mote true  Piety  and  Godliness;  that  I  will  consult  the  good 
of  this  INSTITUTION,  and  the  peace  of  the  Churches  of  our 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  on  all  occasions;  and  that  I  will  relig- 
iously conform  to  the  Constitution  and  Laws  of  this  SEMINARY, 
and  to  the  Statutes  of  this  Foundation. 

THIRD.  The  preceding  Creed  and  Declaration  shall  be  re- 
peated by  every  Professor  on  this  Foundation  at  the  expira- 
tion of  every  successive  period  of  five  years;  and  no  man 
shall  be  continued  a  Professor  on  said  Foundation,  who  shall 
not  continue  to  approve  himself  a  man  of  sound  and  ortho- 
dox principles  in  Divinity  agreeably  to  the  aforesaid  Creed. 

FOURTH.  Professors  on  this  Foundation  shall  be  allowed 
an  honorable  maintenance,  regulated,  as  circumstances  may 
require,  by  the  current  prices  of  the  necessaries  of  life, 
agreeably  to  original  contract. 

FIFTH.  It  is  required,  that  every  public  Lecture  be  pre- 
ceded and  followed  by  prayer;  that  the  Associate  Professors 
in  their  preaching  to  the  Students  of  the  INSTITUTION  on  the 
LORD'S  Day  be  devout,  practical,  doctrinal,  and  pungent, 
rather  than  speculative  and  metaphysical;  and  no  Professor 
on  this  Foundation  shall  ever  preach  for  hire,  or  take  the 
pastoral  charge  of  any  church  or  congregation.  And  it  is 
farthermore  expected,  that  the  Professors  on  this  Foundation 
will  faithfully  devote  their  time  and  talents,  to  qualify  their 


'ASSOCIATE  STATUTES.  261 

Pupils  for  able  ministers  of  the  Gospel.  Beside,  therefore, 
guiding  them  in  the  peaceful  ways  of  wisdom  and  discretion 
by  Christian  precept  and  example,  directing  the  course  of 
their  reading  the  Scriptures  and  other  instructive  books, 
critically  inspecting  and  correcting  their  theological  compo- 
sitions, and  teaching  them  the  appropriate  style  and  manner 
of  pulpit  address.,  it  is  confidently  expected,  that  the  Pro- 
fessors confer  with  them  freely  and  frequently  on  those  sub- 
jects, which  are  calculated  to  expand  and  enrich  the  minds 
and  hearts  of  the  theological  Students,  and  prepare  them  for 
the  work  of  the  Ministry. 

SIXTH.  Upon  the  death,  resignation,  or  removal  of  a  Pro- 
fessor on  this  Foundation,  a  Successor  shall  be  chosen  by  the 
TRUSTEES  aforesaid  within  six  months,  and  the  choice  pre- 
sented to  the  VISITORS  for  their  approbation.  But,  if  this 
choice  be  negatived,  another  election  shall  in  like  manner 
be  presented,  and  toties  quoties,  till  an  election  be  made, 
which  shall  be  approved  by  the  VISITORS;  and  this  within 
twelve  months  from  the  commencement  of  a  vacancy  in 
either  of  the  said  Professorships. 

SEVENTH.  All  Applicants  for  the  advantages  of  this  Foun- 
dation shall  be  introduced  by  letters  of  recommendation 
from  devout  and  influential  characters,  and  shall  exhibit 
satisfactory  evidence  of  their  distinguished  abilities  and  gra- 
cious sincerity;  and  by  an  examination  in  the  learned 
languages  shall  evince  that  in  these  respects  they  are 
qualified  to  enter  upon  theological  studies. 

EIGHTH.  Every  Applicant,  after  examination  by  the 
standing  Committee,  to  be  appointed,  as  herein  after  pro- 
vided, and  after  reading  the  Constitution  of  the  SEMINARY  and 
the  Statutes  of  the  ASSOCIATE  FOUNDERS,  shall  make  and  sub- 
scribe the  following  Declaration,  viz,  '  Deeply  impressed  with 
the  importance  of  an  extensive  fund  of  knowledge  and  pru- 
dence to  the  ministerial  character,  and  of  being  correctly  in- 
structed in  the  Gospel,  and  consequently  of  attending  a 
regular  course  of  theological  education,  I  solemnly  promise, 


262       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

by  the  aid  of  Divine  grace,  to  improve  in  a  faithful  and 
Christian  manner  the  advantages,  furnished  by  this  INSTITU- 
TION; and  to  be  uniformly  subject  to  the  authority  and  laws 
of  the  same,  with  a  single  view  to  my  being  qualified  for 
the  Gospel  Ministry.' 

NINTH.  Strict  and  devout  attention  to  the  Sabbath  and  all 
stated  solemnities  is  required  of  the  Associate  Students;  and 
every  neglect  of  the  means  of  grace  or  religious  improve- 
ment will  be  duly  noticed  by  the  Professors. 

TENTH.  It  is  strictly  enjoined  upon  the  Associate  Students, 
to  treat  the  PROFESSORS,  TRUSTEES,  and  VISITORS  with  due  re- 
spect ;  and  each  other  and  all  persons  with  friendship  and  de- 
corum; any  failure  in  these  and  similar  instances  will  be 
deemed  censurable;  and,  if  persisted  in,  a  forfeiture  of  the 
privileges  of  the  INSTITUTION. 

ELEVENTH.  Tuition  and  room  shall  be  gratis  to  all  ap- 
proved Applicants  and  Students  on  this  Foundation;  and 
'other  gratuitous  aid,  such,  as  diet,  fuel,  light,  washing,  and 
lodging,  shall  be  granted,  in  whole  or  in  part,  according  to 
the  direction  of  the  VISITORS,  and  as  the  state  of  the  said 
Funds  may  permit;  and  no  Student  in  the  SEMINARY  may 
ever  be  charged  for  the  Instruction  of  any  Professor  on  our 
Foundation. 

TWELFTH.  That  the  trust  aforesaid  may  be  always  exe- 
cuted agreeably  to  the  true  intent  of  this  our  Foundation; 
and  that  we  may  effectually  guard  the  same  in  all  future 
time  against  all  perversion,  or  the  smallest  avoidance  of  our 
true  design,  as  herein  expressed;  We,  the  aforesaid  FOUNDERS, 
do  hereby  constitute  a  Board  of  VISITORS,  to  be  as  in  our  place 
and  stead  the  Guardians,  Overseers,  and  Protectors  of  this  our 
FOUNDATION  in  manner,  as  is  expressed  in  the  following  Pro- 
visions, that  is  to  say,  We  appoint  and  constitute  the  Honor- 
able CALEB  STRONG,  Esquire,  late  Governor  of  the  Common- 
wealth of  Massachusetts,  the  Rev.  TIMOTHY  D WIGHT,  D.D., 
President  of  Yale  College,  and  the  Eev.  SAMUEL  SPRING,  D.D., 
of  Newbury  Port  aforesaid,  VISITORS  of  the  said  Foundation; 


ASSOCIATE    STATUTES.  263 

who,  with  their  Successors  in  office,  to  be  chosen,  as  herein 
after  directed,  shall  be  a  perpetual  body  for  this  purpose, 
with  all  the  powers  and  duties,  in  them  herein  vested  and  on 
them  enjoined;  but  we  do  nevertheless  reserve  to  ourselves 
the  right  of  visiting  in  connection  with  the  said  Board,  and 
during  our  natural  lives  respectively,  this  our  Foundation. 
And  we  do  moreover  confer  on  SAMUEL  ABBOT,  Esquire,1  one  of 
the  FOUNDERS  of  the  THEOLOGICAL  INSTITUTION  aforesaid,  the 
right  of  visiting  this  our  Foundation  in  the  same  manner 
with  ourselves,  during  his  natural  life;  each  of  the  said  four 
FOUNDERS  so  long,  as  he  shall  retain  his  seat  at  the  Board, 
shall  possess  and  exercise  all  the  rights  arid  powers,  herein 
given  to  a  VISITOR  of  this  Foundation ;  though  upon  the 
resignation  or  demise  of  either  of  the  said  ^FOUNDERS  his  place 
shall  not  be  supplied  by  election  of  a  VISITOR  to  succeed  him ; 
and  after  the  demise  or  resignation  of  the  said  four  persons, 
last  above  named  as  FOUNDERS,  the  said  Board  shall  never 
consist  of  more  than  three  members;  and  it  is  farther  ex- 
pressly provided,  that  the  perpetual  Board  of  VISITORS,  first 
herein  named,  shall  consist  of  two  Clergymen  and  one  Lay- 
man, all  of  whom  shall  be  men  of  distinguished  talents  and 
piety. 

THIRTEENTH.  We  do  farther  provide  and  ordain  that  no 
person  shall  be  eligible,  as  a  VISITOR,  under  the  age  of  forty 
years;  nor  shall  any  person,  except  the  seven  herein  just 
named,  hold  the  office  of  VISITOR  after  the  age  of  seventy 
years;  and  whenever,  with  the  exception  aforesaid,  any  VISI- 
TOR shall  have  completed  the  sixty  ninth  year  of  his  age,  the 
Board  shall,  within  the  year  next  ensuing,  choose  some  suit- 
able person  to  succeed  him ;  but  the  VISITOR  elect  shall  not 
take  his  seat  at  the  Board,  before  his  said  Predecessor  shall 
have  completed  his  seventieth  year,  or  formally  resigned  his 
office  of  VISITOR;  and  no  resignation  of  any  member  at  an 
earlier  age  shall  be  accepted  by  this  Board,  before  a  Suc- 
cessor shall  have  been  chosen. 

1  Who  had  previously  resigned  his  seat  at  the  Board  of  TRUSTEES. 


264      HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY. 

FOURTEENTH.  The  Board  of  VISITORS  shall  meet  on  the 
seventeenth  day  of  May  next  at  Andover,  and  ever  after, 
once  in  every  year,  at  the  aforesaid  THEOLOGICAL  INSTITUTION, 
to  execute  the  business  of  their  appointment,  on  such  day,  as 
they  shall  assign ;  also  upon  emergencies,  when  called  there- 
to, as  herein  after  directed;  and  a  majority  of  the  VISITORS, 
when  regularly  convened,  shall  be  a  Quorum,  of  which 
Quorum  a  major  part  shall  have  power  to  transact  the  bus- 
iness of  their  Commission;  and  in  case  of  an  equivote,  the 
question  shall  determine  on  that  side,  on  which  the  presiding 
member  shall  have  voted. 

FIFTEENTH.  There  shall  be  annually  chosen,  by  ballot,  a 
President  and  Secretary,  as  Officers  of  the  Board,  out  of  their 
own  number;  who  shall  continue  in  their  respective  offices, 
till  their  places  be  supplied  by  new  elections;  and,  upon  the 
decease  of  either  of  them,  another  shall  be  chosen  in  his 
room  at  the  next  meeting. 

SIXTEENTH.  The  President,  or  in  case  of  his  death,  resigna- 
tion, or  absence  from  the  country,  the  Secretary  shall,  upon 
all  necessary  occasions,  call  special  meetings  of  the  Board; 
and  his  notifications  shall  express  the  business  to  be  trans- 
acted at  such  meetings,  and  be  given  as  early,  as  possible. 
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  at  any  meeting,  the  Secre- 
tary shall  preside. 

SEVENTEENTH.  The  Secretary  shall  keep  a  fair  record  of  all 
the  transactions  of  the  VISITORS  at  every  meeting  of  the 
Board,  inserting  the  names  of  the  members  present;  and 
in  his  absence  another  shall  be  appointed  in  his  room. 

EIGHTEENTH.  The  VISITORS  shall  remove  any  Member  of 
their  Board  for  immorality,  incapacity,  or  neglect  of  duty. 

NINETEENTH.  Upon  the  death,  resignation,  or  removal  of 
a  VISITOR,  except  only  upon  the  demise  or  resignation  of  a 
FOUNDER,  the  Board  of  VISITORS  shall  at  their  next  meeting, 
by  ballot,  elect  another  in  his  stead;  and  ever  after,  from 
time  to  time,  as  a  vacancy  shall  take  place  in  this  Board, 
they  shall  supply  it;  and  every  person  so  elected,  previously 


ASSOCIATE    STATUTES.  265 

to  taking  his  seat  at  the  Board,  shall  make  and  subscribe 
the  following  DECLARATION,  namely,  "Approving  the  Statutes 
of  the  aforesaid  THEOLOGICAL  INSTITUTION,  and  those  of  the 
ASSOCIATE  FOUNDERS,  I  solemnly  declare,  in  the  presence  of 
GOD  and  of  this  Board,  that  I  will  faithfully  exert  my  abili- 
ties, to  carry  into  execution  the  Statutes  of  the  said  FOUNDERS, 
and  to  promote  the  great  object  of  the  INSTITUTION."  And  he 
shall  moreover  in  like  manner  subscribe  the  same  theological 
Creed,  which  every  Professor  elect  is  required  to  subscribe; 
and  a  Declaration  of  his  faith  in  the  same  Creed  shall  be 
repeated  by  him  at  every  successive  period  of  five  years; 
and,  if  in  the  course  of  events  the  number  of  VISITORS  shall 
by  any  special  providence  of  GOD  be  reduced  to  one,  the 
remaining  VISITOR  shall  have  power  to  appoint  one  suitable 
person,  to  be  a  VISITOR  of  this  Foundation;  and  these  two 
VISITORS  shall  at  their  first  regular  meeting  supply  the  re- 
maining vacancy  in  the  Board. 

TWENTIETH.  The  power  and  duties  of  the  Board  of  VISI- 
TORS, thus  constituted  and  organized,  shall  be  as  follows; 
namely,  to  visit  the  Foundation  once  in  every  year,  and  at 
other  times,  when  regularly  called  thereto;  to  inquire  into 
the  state  of  this  our  FUND,  and  the  management  of  this  Foun- 
dation, with  respect  both  to  Professors  and  Students ;  to  deter- 
mine, interpret,  and  explain  the  Statutes  of  this  Foundation 
in  all  cases,  brought  before  them  in  their  judicial  capacity; 
to  redress  grievances,  both  with  respect  to  Professors  and 
Students;  to  hear  appeals  from  decisions  of  the  Board  of 
TRUSTEES,  and  to  remedy  upon  complaint,  duly  exhibited  in 
behalf  of  the  said  Professors  or  Students;  to  review  and  re- 
verse any  censure,  passed  by  said  TRUSTEES  upon  any  Pro- 
fessor or  Student  on  this  Foundation;  to  declare  void  ail 
Rules  and  Regulations,  made  by  the  said  TRUSTEES,  relative 
to  this  Foundation,  which  may  be  inconsistent  with  the 
original  Statutes  thereof;  to  take  care,  that  the  duties  of 
every  Professor  on  this  Foundation  be  intelligibly  and  faith- 
fully discharged,  and  to  admonish  or  remove  him,  either  for 


266       HISTORY   OF   ANDOYER    THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY. 

misbehaviour,  heterodoxy,  incapacity,  or  neglect  of  the  duties 
of  his  office;  to  examine  into  the  proficiency  of  the  Students, 
and  to  admonish,  suspend,  or  deprive  any  Student  for  negli- 
gence, contumacy,  or  any  heinous  crime,  committed  against 
the  laws  of  GOD  or  the  Statutes  of  this  Foundation ;  and  in 
general,  to  see  that  our  true  intentions,  as  expressed  in  these 
our  Statutes,  be  faithfully  executed;  always  administer- 
ing justice  impartially,  and  exercising  the  functions  of 
their  office  in  the  fear  of  GOD,  according  to  the  said 
Statutes,  the  Constitution  of  this  SEMINARY,  and  the  Laws 
of  the  land. 

TWENTY  FIRST.  Every  election  of  a  Professor  on  this  Foun- 
dation shall  within  ten  days  be  presented  to  the  VISITORS  ;  who 
are  hereby  vested  with  the  power  and  right  of  approving  or 
negativing,  at  a  regular  meeting,  every  such  election.  But, 
if  any  such  election  be  riot  either  approved  or  negatived  by 
the  said  VISITORS,  within  twelve  months  from  the  commence- 
ment of  a  vacancy  in  any  Professorship;  such  election  shall 
be  considered,  as  approved  by  the  VISITORS,  and  shall  accord- 
ingly be  deemed  constitutional  and  valid;  provided  always, 
that  such  election  shall  have  been  regularly  communicated 
to  the  President  or  Secretary  of  the  Board  of  VISITORS  ten 
days  at  least,  previously  to  the  expiration  of  the  twelve 
months  aforesaid. 

TWENTY  SECOND.  The  VISITORS  shall  appoint  a  standing 
Committee,  to  ascertain  the  qualifications  of  Applicants  for 
the  advantages  of  this  Foundation.  Those,  whom  they  ap- 
prove, may  be  recommended  for  admission,  as  resident  Ap- 
plicants on  trial  for  two  months;  and,  if  at  the  expiration 
of  this  term  the  Faculty  approve  them,  they  may  be  placed 
on  the  list  of  resident  Students,  till  the  next  annual  meeting 
of  the  VISITORS;  and,  if  upon  examination  by  the  Board  of 
VISITORS  they  be  then  approved,  they  shall  be  registered,  as 
associate  Students;  but,  if  not  approved  by  the  VISITORS,  after 
careful  examination  and  the  best  information  respecting  them, 
they  shall  be  dismissed  from  the  Foundation. 


ASSOCIATE    STATUTES.  267 

TWENTY  THIRD.  No  Applicants,  except  Congregationalists 
and  Presbyterians,  shall  be  admitted  upon  this  Foundation; 
and  a  College  education  shall  be  ever  deemed  an  essential 
condition  of  admission,  except  only  in  some  rare  case  of  dis- 
tinguished talents,  information,  and  piety. 

TWENTY  FOURTH.  At  all  meetings  of  the  VISITORS  decent  en- 
tertainment shall  be  made  by  the  direction  of  the  Board,  and 
at  the  expense  of  the  Foundation;  and  all  other  necessary 
expenses,  attending  the  management  of  this  Foundation, 
shall  be  defrayed  out  of  the  income  of  the  said  Fund. 

TWENTY  FIFTH.  The  Board  of  VISITORS  in  all  their  proceed- 
ings are  to  be  subject  to  our  Statutes,  herein  expressed,  and 
to  conform  their  measures  thereto;  and,  if  they  shall  at  any 
time  act  contrary  to  these,  or  exceed  the  limits  of  their  juris- 
diction and  constitutional  power,  the  party  aggrieved  may 
have  recourse  by  appeal  to  the  JUSTICES  of  the  SUPREME  JUDI- 
CIAL COURT  of  this  Commonwealth,  for  the  time  being,  for 
remedy;  who  are  hereby  appointed  and  authorized  to  judge 
in  such  case;  and,  agreeably  to  the  determination  of  the 
major  part  of  them,  to  declare  null  and  void  any  decree  or 
sentence  of  the  said  VISITORS,  which  upon  mature  considera- 
tion they  may  deem  contrary  to  the  said  Statutes,  or  beyond 
the  just  limits  of  their  power,  herein  prescribed;  and  by  the 
said  JUSTICES  of  the  SUPREME  JUDICIAL  COURT,  for  the  time  be- 
ing, shall  the  said  Board  of  VISITORS  at  all  times  be  subject  to 
be  restrained  and  corrected  in  the  undue  exercise  of  their 
office. 

TWENTY  SIXTH.  Every  annual  meeting  of  the  Board  of  VIS- 
ITORS shall  be  introduced  with  prayer;  after  which  these 
Statutes  shall  be  read  by  the  President. 

TWENTY  SEVENTH.  It  is  strictly  and  solemnly  enjoined,  and 
left  in  sacred  charge,  that  every  article  of  the  above  said 
Creed  shall  forever  remain  entirely  and  identically  the  same, 
without  the  least  alteration,  addition,  or  diminution.  But  we 
reserve  to  ourselves  the  right,  as  FOUNDERS,  jointly  to  make, 
in  concurrence  with  the  said  TRUSTEES,  and  within  the  term 


268       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

of  seven  years,  such  amendments  or  additional  articles,  in 
perfect  consistence  with  the  true  object  of  these  Statutes,  as 
upon  experience  and  due  consideration  shall  be  deemed  nec- 
essary, the  more  effectually  to  secure  and  promote  the  real 
design  of  this  our  Foundation. 

TWENTY  EIGHTH.  Though  the  FOUNDERS,  first  above  named, 
coalesce  with  the  FOUNDERS  of  the  aforesaid  THEOLOGICAL  INSTI- 
TUTION, in  the  manner  herein  described,  with  a  view  more 
effectually  to  promote  the  cause  of  Evangelical  Truth,  and 
with  an  ardent  hope,  that  the  coalition  will  terminate  in  a 
perfect  and  indissoluble  union;  yet,  if  after  an  experiment  of 
seven  years'  coalition,  upon  Visitatorial  principles,  it  shall  ap- 
pear to  the  Board  of  VISITORS  that  the  Visitatorial  system  is 
either  unsafe  or  inexpedient;  the  coalition  may  nevertheless 
be  continued  upon  such  other  principles,  or  system,  as  may 
be  agreed  on  by  the  TRUSTEES  and  VISITORS  aforesaid,  in  con- 
sistency with  the  original  design  of  this  our  FOUNDATION;  or 
the  said  VISITORS  may  withdraw  the  said  Fund,  (the  said 
TRUSTEES  however  not  to  be  responsible  for  any  unavoidable 
loss  from  depreciation  of  the  current  medium,  or  from  the 
Providence  of  GOD,)  as  upon  mature  consideration  may  to 
them  appear  most  conducive  to  the  glory  of  GOD.  Or,  if  at 
any  time  within  the  said  term  of  seven  years,  contrary  to  our 
most  sanguine  expectation,  the  said  VISITORS  shall  by  the 
TRUSTEES  aforesaid  be  denied  or  deprived  of  the  regular  and 
proper  exercise  of  the  power,  authority,  rights,  or  privileges, 
in  them  hereby  vested,  agreeably  to  the  true  meaning  of 
these  our  Statutes;  then  the  said  Fund  (saving  any  unavoid- 
able loss,  as  above  expressed)  shall  revert  to  the  said  VISITORS, 
to  be  appropriated  by  them,  as  they  shall  judge  most  con- 
sistent with  the  original  design  of  this  our  Foundation.  But, 
if  at  the  expiration  of  the  seven  years'  experiment,  or  within 
the  said  term  of  seven  years,  the  Board  of  VISITORS  and  the 
TRUSTEES  aforesaid  be  well  satisfied  with  the  safety  and  expe- 
diency of  the  Visitatorial  system,  and  that  a  perpetual  coali- 
tion is  important  and  desirable;  Union  shall  be  established 


ASSOCIATE    STATUTES.  269 

upon  Visitatorial  principles,  to  continue,  as  the  SUN  and  MOON, 
forever. 

Confiding  in  the  prudent  and  faithful  inspection  of  our 
VISITORS,  and  in  the  wisdom  and  fidelity  of  the  said  TRUSTEES; 
and  with  the  pleasing  hope,  that  they  will  religiously  appro- 
priate the  income  of  the  Fund  aforesaid  to  the  great  object  of 
this  Foundation,  as  herein  described,  agreeably  to  the  Stat- 
utes, herein  contained;  we  do,  under  GOD,  cheerfully  commit 
this  our  Foundation  to  their  pious  care,  under  the  limitations 
before  mentioned,  trusting  that  no  exertion  on  their  part 
will  be  wanting  to  the  success  of  an  INSTITUTION,  so  immedi- 
ately connected  with  the  salvation  of  men  and  the  glory 
of  GOD. 

To  the  SPIRIT  of  truth,  to  the  divine  AUTHOR  of  our  faith, 
to  the  only  wise  GOD,  we  desire  in  sincerity  to  present  this 
our  humble  offering;  devoutly  imploring  the  FATHER  of  lights, 
richly  to  endue  with  wisdom  from  above  all  his  servants,  the 
VISITORS  of  this  Foundation  and  the  TRUSTEES  of  the  SEMINARY, 
and  with  spiritual  understanding  the  Professors  therein; 
that,  being  illuminated  by  the  HOLY  SPIRIT,  their  doctrine, 
may  drop  as  the  rain;  and  that  their  Pupils  may  become 
trees  of  renown  in  the  Courts  of  our  GOD,  whereby  He 
may  be  glorified. 

In  witness  whereof  we  have  hereunto  set  our  hands  and 
seals  this  twenty  first  day  of  March,  in  the  year  of  our  LORD 
one  thousand  eight  hundred  and  eight. 

SSiSsy^sayH  MOSES  BROWN          (s.) 

SAMUEL  SPRING.  WILLIAM  BARTLETT    (S.) 

JEDIDIAH  MORSE,  JOHN  NORR1S  (S.) 


270       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 


TIII. 

LAWS  OF  THE  THEOLOGICAL  INSTITUTION 
AS  PUBLISHED  IN  1811, 


AMENDMENTS  AS  PEE  LAWS  PUBLISHED  IN  1817  APPENDED. 


CHAP.    I. 

OF    ADMISSION. 

I.  "  THIS  Institution  shall  be  equally  open  to  Protestants 
of  every  denomination  for  the  admission  of  young  men  of 
requisite  qualifications." 

II.  "  Every  Candidate  for  admission  into  this  Seminary," 
previously  to  his  examination,  shall  produce  to  the  Faculty 
satisfactory  testimonials,   from   persons  of  information    and 
respectability,  "  that  he  possesses  good  natural  and  acquired 
talent's,  has  honorably  completed  a  course  of  liberal  educa- 
tion, sustains  a  fair  moral  character,  and  that  he  is  in  full 
communion  with  some  church  of  Christ;  in  default  of  which 
he  shall  subscribe  a  declaration  of  his  belief  of  the  Christian 
religion,"  in  the  following  words,  "  I  do  solemnly  declare  that 
I  believe  the  Christian  religion  is  of  divine  original,  and  that 
the  scriptures  of  the  Old  and  New  Testament  contain  a  per- 
fect rule  of  faith  and  practice." 

III.  Every  Candidate,  thus  introduced,  shall  be  carefully 
examined  by  the  Faculty  in  the  learned  languages,  and  with 
reference  to  his  object  in  pursuing  theological  studies;  and, 
if  in  their  judgment  found  duly  qualified  for  such  pursuit,  he 
shall  then  subscribe  the  following  declaration  and  promise, 
viz,  "  I  declare  it  to  be  my  serious  intention  to 
devote  myself  to  the  work  of  the  gospel  ministry;  and  I 


LAWS    OF    THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY.  271 

solemnly  promise  that  so  long,  as  I  shall  be  a  member  of  the 
Theological  Institution,  I  will  obey  the  laws  of  the  same; 
that  I  will  pay  due  respect  and  obedience  to  the  Professors, 
Trustees,  and  Visitors;  that,  by  aid  of  divine  grace,  I  will 
improve  in  a  faithful  and  Christian  manner  the  advantages 
of  this  Institution;  that  I  will  conduct  toward  my  fellow 
Students,  as  brethren;  and  toward  all  men,  as  becomes  the 
gospel  of  Christ;"  upon  which  he  may  be  admitted  a  member 
of  this  Seminary.  Provided  nevertheless,  that  such  applicant 
may  be  admitted,  as  shall  produce  from  the  Trustees  or  a 
Committee  of  their  appointment  a  Certificate,  testifying  that 
it  appears  to  them,  that  the  peculiarity  of  his  case  is  such, 
that  the  object  of  this  Institution  may  be  promoted  by  ex- 
cusing him  from  the  declarative  part  of  the  foregoing 
subscription. 

IV.  For  admission  upon  any  charitable   Foundation  of 
the   original    Institution,    every   Candidate    shall    moreover 
exhibit  to  the  Trustees,  or  to  a  Committee  of  their  appoint- 
ment, w  a  Certificate  from  known  and  respectable  characters, 
that  he  is  distinguished  by  natural  abilities,  literary  acquire- 
ments, unblemished  morals,  and  hopeful  piety." 

V.  "For  admission   on   the  Associate  Foundation  every 
Applicant  shall  be  introduced  by  letters  of  recommendation 
from   devout   and   influential   characters,   and   shall   exhibit 
satisfactory  evidence  of  his  distinguished  abilities  and  gra- 
cious sincerity,  and  by  an  examination  in  the  learned   lan- 
guages shall  evince  that  in  these  respects  he  is  qualified  to 
enter  upon  theological  studies;  which  examination  shall  be 
made  by  a  standing  Committee,  for  this  purpose  appointed 
by  the  Visitors  of  this  Foundation.     Moreover  no  Applicants, 
except   Congregationalists  and    Presbyterians,   shall   be  ad- 
mitted upon  this  Foundation ;  and  a  College  education  shall 
be  ever  deemed  an  essential  condition  of  admission,  except 
only  in  some  rare  case  of  distinguished  talents,  information, 
and  piety.  '  After  examination  by  the  standing  Committee, 
and  after  reading  the  Constitution  of  the  Seminary  and  the 


272       HISTORY   OF   ANDOYER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

Statutes  of  the  Associate  Founders,  every  Applicant  shall 
make  and  subscribe,"  in  the  presence  of  the  said  Committee, 
the  following  Declaration,  viz.  "  deeply  impressed  with  the 
importance  of  an  extensive  fund  of  knowledge  and  prudence 
to  the  ministerial  character,  and  of  being  correctly  instructed 
in  the  doctrines  of  the  gospel,  and  consequently  of  attending 
a  regular  course  of  theological  education,  I  solemnly  promise, 
by  the  aid  of  divine  grace,  to  improve  in  a  faithful  arid  Chris- 
tian manner  the  advantages,  furnished  by  this  Institution; 
and  to  be  uniformly  subject  to  the  authority  and  laws  of  the 
same,  with  a  single  view  to  my  being  qualified  for  the  gospel 
ministry;"  after  which  any  Candidate,  "approved  by  said  Com- 
mittee, may  be  recommended  for  admission,  as  a  resident 
Applicant  on  trial  for  two  months;  and,  if  at  the  expiration 
of  this  term  the  Faculty  approve  him,  he  may  be  placed  on 
the  list  of  resident  Students  till  the  next  annual  meeting  of 
the  Visitors ;  and,  if  upon  examination  by  the  Board  of  Visi- 
tors he  be  then  approved,  he  shall  be  registered,  as  an  Asso- 
ciate Student.  But,  if  not  approved  by  the  Visitors,  after 
careful  examination  and  the  best  information  respecting  him, 
he  shall  be  dismissed  from  the  Foundation." 


CHAP.    II. 

OF    DEVOTIONAL    EXERCISES. 

I.  "  Every  morning  and  evening,  during  term  time,  relig- 
ious exercises  shall  be  performed  in  the  Chapel  in  the  follow- 
ing manner.  The  divine  assistance  and  blessing  shall  be 
first  implored  in  a  short  prayer;  a  devotional  chapter  or 
psalm  shall  then  be  read,  accompanied  with  pious  and  prac- 
tical reflections;  or,  instead  of  this,  once  at  least  in  every 
week,  an  exposition  shall  be  given  upon  some  deeply  inter- 
esting passage  of  scripture;  to  this  shall  succeed  a  genuine 
piece  of  psalmody;  and  the  service  be  concluded  by  an 
appropriate  prayer.  In  these  exercises  the  Professors  shall 


LAWS    OF    THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY.  273 

preside,  and  ordinarily  officiate;  but  Students  of  two  years 
standing  may  occasionally  perform  them  in  whole  or  in  part, 
according  to  the  desire  and  direction  of  the  Professors." 

II.  "Every  Student  in  this  Seminary," and  all  Licentiates, 
resident  within  its  walls,  "shall  constantly,  punctually,  and 
seriously  attend  the  religious  exercises  of  the  Chapel  morn- 
ing and  evening."     All  tardinesses  and  absences  of  Students 
from  these  exercises  shall  be  noted  by  Monitors,  appointed 
by  the  Faculty  for  this  purpose. 

III.  "Strict  and  devout  attention  to  the  Sabbath  and  all 
stated  Solemnities  is  required  of  all  Students  "  and  Eesidents. 

IV.  During  the  winter  term,  morning  prayers  shall   be 
attended  at  seven,  and  evening  prayers  at  five  o'clock;  and 
during  the  summer  term,  at  six  o'clock  morning  and  evening. 

CHAP.    III. 

OF  THE  STUDIES  AND  EXERCISES  OF  STUDENTS. 

I.  "  Every  Student  in  this  Seminary  is  required  to  devote 
so  much  time  to  the  study  of  the  learned  languages,  as  shall 
increase  his  knowledge  of  them,  especially  of  the  Greek  and 
Hebrew  languages;  to  pay  due  attention  to  Philology,  Khet- 
oric,  and  Oratory;  to  read  the  best  treatises  on  natural  and 
revealed  Keligion,  and  on  the  fundamental  doctrines  of  the 
gospel;  to  make  himself  master  of  the  principal  arguments 
and  evidences  of  the  truth  of  Christianity;  to  pay  due  atten- 
tion to  ecclesiastical  History,  and  to  the  canons  of  biblical 
Criticism.     But  above  all  it  is  required^  that  he  make  the  BIBLE 
the  object  of  his  most  attentive,  diligent,  and  prayerful  study." 

II.  "Each  Student  shall  pursue  the  course  of  study,  read 
the  books,  and  perform  the  exercises,  constitutionally  pre- 
scribed him  by  the  Professors;  frequently  ask  their  advice 
and  assistance  with  reference  to  his  studies ;  and  often  submit 
his  theological  compositions,   especially  his  first  essays,  to 
their  friendly  and  faithful  inspection." 


274      HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

TIL  "Each  Student,  once  at  least  in  every  year,  shall 
acquaint  the  Professors,  when  so  required,  with  the  books  he 
has  read,  and  with  his  course  of  study,  during  said  year;  and 
shall  also  be  examined  in  the  original  languages  of  the  Old 
&  New  Testament,  and  in  the  Septuagint  version  of  the 
former;  also  with  reference  to  the  leading  sentiments  and 
arguments  of  the  principal  authors,  he  has  perused;  but 
especially  with  respect  to  the  style,  character,  and  design 
of  these  sacred  writers,  which  agreeably  to  direction  he  has 
particularly  studied." 

IV.  Every  Student  is  required  to  reside  constantly  at  the 
Seminary,  during  term  time,  unless  prevented  by  sickness; 
and  no  Student  may  go  out  of  town  without  the  permission 
of  the    Professor  or  Professors,  whose   Lecture  or  Lectures 
may  occur  during  the  time,  for  which  absence  is  desired. 
For  every  night's  absence  after  the  expiration  of  a  vacation, 
or  of  any  permission  to  be  absent  in  term  time,  every  Student 
shall  give  a  satisfactory  excuse,  when  called  for  by  the  Pro- 
fessors, or  be  liable  to  admonition  for  default. 

V.  The  stated  hours  of  study  are  to  be  reckoned  from 
morning   prayers   to   twelve   o'clock,    except   one   hour    for 
breakfast  and  necessary  exercise,  and  from  two  o'clock  P.  M. 
to  evening  prayers,  and  from  nine  o'clock  in  the  evening  it  is 
expected,  that  the  Students  will  be  in  their  respective  rooms. 

VI.  All  Students  in  town  shall  punctually  attend  every 
public  Lecture  in  the  Chapel ;  and  every  Student  in  each  class 
shall  in  like  manner  attend  the  stated  private  Lectures,  given 
to  his  class;  unless  prevented  by  sickness  or  other  sufficient 
reason ;  which  reason  must  be  offered  to  the  Professor,  whether 
it  be  for  absence  or  tardiness,  at  or  before  the  next  Lecture. 

VII.  Every  Student,  whose  voice  and  health  will  permit, 
shall  devote  so  much  time  to  the  study  and  practice  of  sacred 
Music,  as  will  enable  him  with  understanding  and  spirit  to 
take  an  active  part  in  sounding  the  high  praises  of  God  in 
seasons  of  public  devotion. 

VIII.  "  The  senior  Students  will  be  required  to  prepare 


LAWS    OF    THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY.  275 

sermons,  and  occasionally  to  deliver  them  in  public,  both  in 
the  Seminary  and  in  neighbouring  congregations,  as  may  be 
judged  expedient  by  the  Professors."  Each  Student  in  the 
course  of  his  senior  year  shall  be  required  to  write,  not  less 
than  four,1  nor  more  than  six  sermons,  on  subjects  assigned 
by  the  Professors,  each  of  which  sermons  shall  be2  submitted 
to  each  of  the  Professors  for  his  private,  "  free,  and  friendly 
correction  in  grammar,  method,  reasoning,  style,  and  senti- 
ment ; "  and  each  sermon,  after  such  correction,  shall  be  tran- 
scribed and  re-examined  as  often,  as  the  Professors  shall 
deem  necessary. 

IX.  No  Student,  who,  with  a  view  to  his  own  improve- 
ment, agreeably  to  the  twenty  ninth  Statute  of  the  Constitu- 
tion, may  be  permitted  occasionally  to  preach  publicly  in  the 
Chapel  and  vicinity  shall  be  at  liberty  to  preach  in  any  neigh- 
bouring congregation,  without  special  permission,  previously 
obtained  from  the  Faculty ;  and  no  sermon  shall  be  thus  de- 
livered by  such  Student,  which  has  not  been  examined  and 
corrected,  as  required  in  the  preceding  law ;  and  which  has 
not  received  the  following  license   inscribed  upon  it,  and 
signed  by  one  or  more  of  the  Professors, 

Prcelegere  licet     A. B. 

X.  There  shall  be  two  vacations  in  every  year,   of  six 
weeks  duration  each,  the  first  commencing8  the  fourth  Wed- 
nesday in  September,  and  the  second  the  first  Wednesday  in 
May. 

CHAP.  IV. 

OF  THE  POWER  AND  DUTY  OF  THE  PROFESSORS. 

I.  Applicants  are  to  be  admitted  into  the  Institution  by 
the  Faculty. 

II.  The  immediate  care  and  instruction  of  the  Students 
and  the  execution  of  the  Laws  are  vested  in  the  Professors 
or  Faculty. 


276       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

III.  The  Professors  shall  statedly  reside  near  the  Seminary, 
that,  during  term  time,  they  may  attend  and  perform  the  re- 
ligious services  of  the  Chapel,  and  other  duties  of  their  station 
as  required  by  the  Constitution. 

IV.  The   Professors  shall,   each  in  his  own  department, 
instruct  the  Students  by  public  Lectures,  delivered  at  such 
times  and  places,  as  shall  be  assigned  by  the  Trustees. 

V.  "  It  shall  be  the  duty  of  the  Professors  by  private  in- 
struction and  advice,  to  aid  the  Students  in  the  acquisition 
of  a  radical  and  adequate  knowledge  of  the  sacred  scriptures 
in  their  original  languages,  and  of  the  Old  Testament  in  the 
Septuagint  version;  to  direct  their  method  of  studying  the 
BIBLE  and  all  other  writings;  to  superintend  and  animate 
their  pursuits  by  frequent  inquiries  and  examinations  relative 
to  their  progress  in  books  and  knowledge;  to  assign  proper 
subjects  for  their  first  compositions,  and  to  suggest  a  natural 
method  of  treating  them ;  frequently  and  critically  to  examine 
their  early  productions,  and  in  a  free  and  friendly  manner  to 
point  out  their  defects  and  errors  in  grammar,  method,  rea- 
soning,  style,  and,  sentiment;  to  improve  them  in  the  im- 
portant art  of  reading,   and  to  give  them  opportunities  of 
speaking  in  public ;  favoring  them  with  their  candid  remarks 
on  their  whole  manner;  to  explain  intricate  texts  of  scripture, 
referred  to  them;  to  solve  cases  of  conscience;  to  watch  over 
their  health  and  morals  with  paternal  solicitude ;  and  by  every 
prudent  and  Christian  method  to  promote  the  growth  of  true 
piety  in  their  hearts;  to  give  them  friendly  advice  with  rela- 
tion to  their  necessary  intercourse  among  men  in  the  various 
walks  of  life ;  and  especially  with  respect  to  the  manner,  in 
which  it  becomes  a  minister  of  the  meek  and  lowly  Jesus  to 
address  both  God  and  man,  whether  in  the  assembly  of  his 
saints,  or  in  the  chamber  of  sickness  and  of  death." 

VI.  The  annual  examination  of  the  Students,  required  by 
the  Constitution,  shall  be  made  by  the  Professors  at  the  time 
and  places,  appointed  by  the  Trustees. 

VII.  It   will   be   expected  of  the   Professors,    that   they 


LAWS    OF    THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY.  277 

encourage  and  cultivate  social,  friendly,  and  familiar  inter- 
course with  their  Pupils  individually;  not  only  by  inviting 
them  at  seasonable  hours  to  call  at  their  respective  houses, 
for  the  purpose  of  free  conversation  on  theological  subjects 
and  personal  religion ;  but  likewise  by  visiting  them  at  their 
rooms  for  the  same  important  purpose. 


CHAP.   V. 

OF     BENEFICIARIES. 

I.  To  be  placed  or  continued  on  either  of  the  charitable 
Foundations,  a  Student  must  produce  to  the  Trustees  or  Visi- 
tors a  joint  certificate  from  the  Faculty,  that  he  possesses  the 
qualifications,  severally  required  by  the  Statutes  of  the  Insti- 
tution and  of  the  Associate  Foundation. 

II.  "  To  be  entitled  to  maintenance  from  the  Funds  of  the 
Institution,  a  Student,   unless  prevented  by  sickness,   must 
reside  at  the  Seminary  eight  months  at  least  in  each  year, 
regularly  attending  the  exercises  and  diligently  prosecuting 
the   studies   prescribed,    in   all  respects   conforming   to   the 
Statutes  of  the  Institution,  and  to  the  laws  and  orders  of  the 
Trustees." 

III.  "  If  upon  due  and  impartial  examination  it  be  found, 
that  any  Student  on  a  charitable  Foundation  has  not  made 
reasonable  proficiency  in  the  studies  prescribed  him,  he  shall 
be  continued  thereon  no  longer." 

CHAP.  VI. 

OF    THE    LIBRARY. 

I.  The  Library  shall  be  committed  to  the  immediate  care 
of  a  Librarian,  who  shall  give  bond  for  the  faithful  discharge 
of  his  trust  in  such  sum,  and  with  such  surety  or  sureties,  as 
the  Trustees  shall  direct;  who  shall  be  allowed  a  reasonable 


278      HISTORY  OF  ANDOVER   THEOLOGICAL   SEMINARY. 

compensation  for  his  services  and  be  chosen  for  a  term  not 
exceeding  three  years,  subject  nevertheless  to  removal  for 
misbehaviour  or  neglect  of  duty,  within  the  said  term,  at  the 
discretion  of  the  Board;  and  on  his  removal,  or  at  the  expira- 
tion of  his  term,  he  shall  give  an  account  of  the  condition  of 
the  Library  to  the  Trustees,  or  to  a  committee  of  their  ap- 
pointment, who  shall  inspect  the  Library,  and  see  that  all  the 
books  are  in  proper  state  and  order,  before  another  choice; 
and  if,  through  his  neglect,  the  Library  shall  have  suffered 
damage,  it  shall  be  made  good  out  of  his  salary  or  otherwise 
at  his  expense. 

II.  The  Librarian  may  nominate  a  Substitute,  who,  being 
approved  by  the  Trustees,  shall,  in  the  absence  and  at  the 
expense  of  the  Librarian,  perform  his  duty. 

III.  A  Print  of  some  emblematical  engraving,  with  the  name 
of  the  donor  inscribed,  shall  be  pasted  in  the  beginning  of  ev- 
ery volume;4  and  books,  given  in  behalf  of  the  Associate  Foun- 
dation, shall  also  be  distinguished  by  an  appropriate  mark. 

IV.  The  disposition  of  all  books  in  the  Library  shall  be 
made  by  a  special  committee,  appointed  by  the  Trustees;  and 
there  shall  be  constantly  kept  in  the  Library  an  alphabetical 
Catalogue,  in  which  the  title,   size,   place,  and  number  of 
copies  and  volumes  of  every  author  shall  be  noted. 

V.  Whereas  certain  books  may  be  of  such  value  and  na- 
ture, that  they  ought  not  to  be  taken  from  the  Library,  but 
always  kept  there  for  occasional  consultation,  such  as  JBibliu 
Polyglotta  &c.  the  particular  books  of  this  description  shall 
be  determined  and  marked  by  a  committee  for  this  purpose 
appointed,  no  one  of  which  shall  be  loaned  by  the  Librarian, 
without  special  permission  of  the  Trustees. 

VI.  No  person  shall  go  into  the  Library  without  the  Li- 
brarian or  his  Substitute,   except  as  provided  in  the  ninth 
Article  of  this  Chapter;  and  no  other  person  may  have  a  key 
of  the  Library. 

VII.  No  persons  shall  have  a  right  to  borrow  books,  ex- 
cept Founders,  Visitors,  Trustees,   Professors,  Instructors  of 


LAWS   OF    THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY.  279 

Phillips  Academy,  resident  Licentiates,  and  Students  of  the 
Theological  Seminary. 

VIII.  No  book  shall  be  loaned  or  returned  without  the 
knowledge  and  presence  of  the  Librarian  or  his  Substitute, 
who  shall  note  the  state  of  every  book  at  its  delivery  and  re- 
turn, arid  see  that  it  is  properly  covered  with  paper.     He  shall 
also  keep  a  fair  record  of  the  person  borrowing  or  returning 
a  book,  of  the  time  when,  and  of  its  title,  and  size;  which 
record  shall  be  signed  by  the  borrower.     But  a  Professor, 
Trustee,  Founder,  Visitor,  or  Instructor  of  Phillips  Academy, 
may  borrow  books  by  proxy,  producing  a  written  order  there- 
for, and  subscribing  the  record  in  his  behalf. 

IX.  The   Librarian   or   his   Substitute   will   attend   upon 
gentlemen  in  the  government  of  the  Institution  and  Acad- 
emy, for  the  delivery  and  receipt  of  books,  at  such  times, 
as  may  best  suit  their  convenience;  and  will  give  his  at- 
tendance,  or  lend   the  key  of  the  Library  to   a  Professor, 
who   may  have   occasion   to   consult,    in  the   Library,   any 
author  in  the  line  of  his  Profession. 

X.  The  stated  time  for  loaning  books  to  Students  shall 
be  from    two  to  four   o'clock   of  every  Saturday  afternoon 
in  term  time. 

XI.  No   Student   may  have  on  loan  at  one   time   more 
than   three    books,   in   addition   to   such   necessary  classical 
books,    as,    by  a   written   order   from   a   Professor,   he   may 
be  authorized  to  borrow;   nor  shall  a  student  exchange  a 
book  within  a  week,  or  retain  one  longer  than  three  weeks 
from   the  time  it  was  loaned,  except  by  a  like  order;   and 
no  other  person  may  have  on  loan  at  one  time  more  than 
three  books,  nor  retain  the  same  more  than  three  months, 
except  a  Professor,  who  may  have  twelve  volumes  at  one  time. 

XII.  All   books,  borrowed   by  a  resident   Licentiate   or 
Student,   not  present  during  a  vacation,  shall  be  returned 
previously  to  his  leaving  the  town ;  and  no  book,  borrowed 
from   the    Library   by   either,    shall   be   carried   out   of  the 
town.     And  once  in  every  year,  viz.,  on  the  Tuesday  pre- 


280       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY. 

ceding  the  first  Wednesday  in  May.  all  books,  by  whom- 
soever borrowed,  shall  be  punctually  returned,  for  the 
purpose  of  a  careful  inspection  of  the  whole  Library. 

XIII.  Any  person,   wishing  to   borrow   a   book,   already 
loaned,  may  leave  his  name  arid  the  title  of  the  book  with  the 
Librarian;  and  it  shall  be  reserved  for  an  applicant  within  the 
town  one  week,  or  for  one  without  the  town  two  weeks. 

XIV.  If  a   book,    while   loaned   to   any   person,    be    in 
jured  or  defaced,  the  borrower  shall  make  reasonable  com- 
pensation   therefor,   to   the   satisfaction    of  a  committee  for 
that  purpose  appointed  by  the  Trustees;   or,  if  any  person 
detain  a  book   beyond   the   time  limited  by  law,   he   shall 
not  borrow  another,  before  ke  have  returned  the  former. 

XV.  When  there  shall  be  more  than   one  copy  of  the 
same  book,  the  least  elegant  shall  be  lent  first. 

XVI.  During  the  hours,  assigned  for  the  loan  of  books, 
the  Librarian  may  not  permit  more  than  four  Students   to 
be  in  the  Library  at  one  time. 

XVII.  The    Library  shall    be   well   aired   one   day  in    a 
week,    if   weather   permit,    and    swept   and   dusted    once   a 
month;    and    previously    to    the    annual    inspection    of   the 
Library  the  books  on  each  shelf  shall   be  taken  down  and 
carefully  dusted,  and  the  shelf  well  brushed. 

XVIII.  The   Librarian  shall  from  time  to  time  make  a 
fair  entry  in  a  book  of  record,  for  this  purpose  provided, 
of  the   name    of  each    Benefactor    of  the   Library,   and    of 
the  books   by  him  presented,  which  Record  shall  be  open 
to  the  inspection  of  all  men. 


CHAP.    VII. 

OF     STEWARD     AND     COMMONS. 

I.  It  shall  be  the  duty  of  the  Steward  to  measure, 
weigh,  receive,  and  store  provisions  and  other  necessaries 
for  the  Institution;  to  see  that  three  meals  of  good  victuals 


LAWS    OF    THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY.  281 

be  well  cooked,  and  served  up  in  the  Hall,  each  day  in  a 
term;  to  keep  an  exact  account  of  the  time,  each  Student 
is  in  commons  in  a  term ;  to  fence  and  cultivate  the  lands, 
appropriated  to  the  Institution;  and  to  have  the  immedi- 
ate care  of  all  the  produce,  stores,  utensils,  arid  property, 
connected  with  his  department;  agreeably  to  such  directions, 
as  he  may  from  time  to  time  receive. 

II.  The    Steward   shall    cause    all    the    rooms,    occupied 
by  the    Students,   and   the   entries   of  Phillips   Hall,   to   be 
cleanly  swept  twice  in  a  week,  and  their  beds  made  every 
day ;  he  shall  also  take  care,  that  their  bed  linen  and  clothes 
be  well  washed,  mended,  and  ironed  as  often  as  necessary. 

III.  During  the  winter  term,  breakfast  shall   be  served 
up  in  the  Hall  at  half  past  seven,  and  in  the  summer  term 
at  seven  o'clock;   and,  during  both  terms,  dinner  shall  be 
made  ready  at  half  past  twelve,   and   supper  at  the  close 
of  evening  prayers. 

IV.  The   department   of   Steward   and   all   persons    em- 
ployed  in   it   are   placed   under   the    immediate    inspection 
and  direction  of  a   Superintendent,  who  shall  have  author- 
ity  to    make    and    conclude    all    contracts    for    stated    and 
occasional  help;  whose  duty  it  shall  be,  not  only  to  super- 
intend this  department,  but  to  make  or  direct  all  purchases 
of  provisions  and  other  necessaries;  to  keep  fair  and  regular 
accounts  of  all  purchases  and  expenditures  for  the  depart- 
ment;   and.  to    make   out   proper   term    bills,    agreeably   to 
direction  of  the  Trustees. 

V.  Every  resident  Licentiate  and  every  Student,  previ- 
ously to   his  dieting   in  the   Hall,   shall   give  bond   to  the 
Trustees   of  Phillips   Academy   in   the    penal    sum    of   two 
hundred  dollars  and  to  the   satisfaction  of  the   Treasurer, 
conditioned    to    pay    all    sums,    rightfully    charged    against 
him    in   every  term    bill  of  his,   within    six  weeks  after  it 
shall    become    due;    and    every    bill,   not    paid    within    six 
weeks  from   its   date,   shall  bear   interest   from  the  end    of 
said  six  weeks  till  paid. 


282       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

VI.  Every  resident  Licentiate  and   every  Student,  upon 
his  admission,  return  after  vacation,  or  any  occasional  ab- 
sence,  shall  enter   his  name   in   the   Steward's   book;   and, 
when  going  out  of  town  for  two  or  more  nights,  he  shall 
enter   his   name   in   like   manner;  and,   if  he  neglect  such 
entry,  he  shall  be  liable  to  be  charged  for  commons  during 
his  absence. 

VII.  No  Student  shall  board  out  of  commons  without 
permission,  first  obtained  from  the  Faculty,  for  special  and 
sufficient  reasons. 

VIII.  It  is  expected,  that  at  meals  the  Students  sit  in 
classical  order;  and  that  no  Student  take  his  seat  at  table, 
before  a  blessing  be  asked;  or  leave  the  Hall,  before  thanks 
be   returned;   both    which   duties   to    be   performed   by  the 
oldest   Licentiate   or   the   senior   Student   present,    or   some 
other  person  at  his  request. 

IX.  Previously  to  the  close  of  each  term,  the   Steward 
shall  furnish  the  Committee  for  ascertaining  the  expenses, 
incurred  in  the  same,  a  schedule  of  the  time,  each  Student 
has  dieted  in  the  Hall;  also  of  the  stock,  fuel,  and   stores 
on  hand;  and  likewise  of  the  furniture  of  the  Hall  and  the 
Kitchen,  and  other  utensils;   noting  such  articles,   as  may 
have  been  broken,  lost,  worn  out,  or  purchased  within  the 
term. 

X.  A  Committee  of  two  persons  shall  be  appointed  by 
the  Trustees,  who,  with  the  assistance  of  the  Superintendent 
shall   ascertain   and   adjust   the   current    expenses    of   each 
term;  in  which  shall  be  included  the  salaries  of  the  Super- 
intendent  and   Steward,    the    wages   given   for   stated    and 
occasional  help,  and  the  prime  cost  of  the  provisions,  fuel, 
and  other  necessaries,   consumed  in  the  same;  the  aggre- 
gate  of  all  which   shall   be   averaged    upon   the   Students, 
according  to  the  time,  each  Student  has  been  in  commons 
during  the  term,  and  the  bills  made  out  accordingly  by  the 
Superintendent. 


LAWS   OF    THE    THEOLOGICAL   SEMINARY.  283 

CHAP.   VIII. 

MISCELLANIES. 

I.  The   assignment   of  rooms   and   studies   in   the   Hall 
shall  be  made  by  the  Faculty. 

II.  All  the  Theological  Students  shall  live  in  the  Hall 
and  board  in  commons,  special  cases  excepted. 

III.  For  prayers  the  bell  shall  be  rung  and  tolled,  and 
for  commons  tolled  by  the  Steward,  or  by  his  order;  but 
for  Lectures  it  shall  be  tolled   by  some  Student  according 
to  direction   of  the  Professors. 

IV.5  No  Student  shall  apply  to  any  Association  or  Pres- 
bytery for  license  to  preach,  but  in  virtue  of  a  Certificate, 
signed  by  the  Professors,  specifying  how  long  he  has 
diligently  studied  under  their  direction  and  attended  their 
Lectures,  and  that  he  sustains  a  good  moral  character; 
and  also  expressive  of  their  consent  to  such  application. 
This  Certificate  however  shall  never  be  given,  but  in  cases, 
in  which  license  cannot  be  obtained  within  one  month  after 
the  expiration  of  such  Student's  regular  course  in  the 
Institution;  nor  shall  such  application  be  made,  but  at  the 
latest  period  in  said  course,  in  which  such  license  can  be 
obtained;  and,  when  obtained,  such  Student  shall  not 
preach  in  virtue  of  it,  before  he  shall  have  regularly  com- 
pleted his  course  in  the  Institution. 

V.  No  Student  shall  leave  the  Seminary,  or  be  entitled 
to  receive  the  Certificate,  named  in  the  twenty  sixth  Statute 
of  the  Constitution,  before  he  shall  have  produced  to  the 
senior  Professor  a  Certificate  from  the  Treasurer,   that   he 
has   discharged   all   dues,    charged   in   his   term   bills;   and 
from  the  Librarian,  that  he  has  returned  in  good  order,  or 
replaced  the  books,  he  had  borrowed  from  the  Library. 

VI.  "Whenever  a  Student  shall  have  honorably  finished 
his  term  and  course  of  study   under  the  direction   of  the 


284      HISTORY  OP  ANDOVER   THEOLOGICAL   SEMINARY. 

Professors,  and  such  Student  shall  request  it,  a  Certificate, 
signed  by  the  Professors,  specifying  how  lon^-  sneh  Student 
has  studied  under  the  direction,  and  attended  the  Lectures 
of  the  Professors,  that  he  has  prosecuted  his  studies  with 
diligence,  and  sustained  a  good  moral  character,  shall  be 
given  him;  provided  always,  that  his  conduct  and  his 
proficiency  in  theological  knowledge  be  such,  as  to  aunt 
the  same." 

VII.  In  future  no  Student,   who   may   have   been   per- 
mitted to  deliver  sermons  in  the  Seminary  uiul  in  neighbour- 
ing  congregations,   shall   ever   preach   for   compensation    of 
any  kind,  direct  or  indirect,  or  on  supply,  or  at  the  distance 
of  more  than  ten  miles  from  the   Seminary,  except  for  a 
Visitor  or  Trustee,  and  in  his  presence;  ami   it  is  recom- 
mended to  the  Professors  not  to  permit  any  such  Student 
to  preach  more  than  six  times  in  his  senior  year. 

VIII.  No  Student  in  either  of  the  two  lower  classes  may 
officiate  in  the  sacred  desk  on  the  Lord's  day,  or  act  the 
part  of  a  religious  instructor  at  any  religious  meeting. 


AMENDMENTS  AS  PER  LAWS  PUBLISHED  IN  1817. 

»  "Three"  instead  of  "four." 

»  "  Submitted  to  the  private  and  friendly  correction  of  each  Professor  within 
the  limits  of  his  own  department" 

a  "The  Thursday  following  the  fourth  Wednesday  in  September,  and  the 
second,  on  the  Thursday  following  the  first  Wednesday  in  May." 

4  "Remainder  of  paragraph  omitted." 

« Entire  section  omitted,  and  the  following  substituted  therefor  — "No 
student  shall  preaeh  in  the  Seminary  or  any  neighboring  congregation,  before 
he  shall  have  obtained  a  written  permission  therefor,  subscribed  by  the 
Professors,  or  a  major  part  of  them;  and  also  the  approbation  of  some  regular 
Association  or  Presbytery;  concurring  with  such  permission." 


LAWS   OF   THE    THEOLOGICAL   SEMINARY. 


LAWS  OF  THE  THEOLOGICAL  INSTITUTION 
AS  PUBLISHED  IN  1827, 


AMENDMENTS  AS  PER  LAWS  PUBLISHED  IN  1837 
AND  1846  APPENDED. 


CHAP.    I. 
ADMISSION. 

Si CT.  I.  This  Institution  shall  be  equally  open 

Protestanta 

Protestants  of  every  denomination,  for  the  admission 
of  young  men  of  requisite  qualifications. 

II.    Kv<:ry  candidate  for  admission  into  this  Sem-Qtiallflca- 

J  f  tions      for 

inary  shall,  previously  to  his  examination,1  produce admi88ion- 
to  thrj  Faculty  satisfactory  testimonials,  from  persons 
of  information  and  respectability  and  reputed  piety, 
that  h«;  possesses  good  natural  and  acquired  talents; 
that  he  has  been  regularly  educated  at  some  respect- 
able College  or  University,  or  has  otherwise  made 
lif'-rary  acquisitions  which,  as  preparatory  to  theolog- 
ical studies,  are  substantially  equivalent  to  a  liberal 
education,  and  that  he  sustains  a  fair  moral  character, 
is  of  a  prudent  and  discreet  deportment,  and  is  hope- 
fully possessed  of  personal  piety.  He  shall  also  ex- 
hibit to  the  Faculty  proper  testimonials  of  his  being 
in  full  communion  with  some  Church  of  Christ;  in 
default  of  which,  he  shall  subscribe  a  Declaration 
of  his  belief  in  the  Christian  Keligion,  in  the  fol- 
lowing words.  "I do  solemnly  declare, 

that  I  believe   the  Christian   Religion  is  of  divine 
original,    and   that   the   Scriptures   of  the   Old   and 


286       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

New  Testaments  contain  a  perfect  rule  of  faith  and 
practice." 
Examina-          HI.  Every  candidate  thus  introduced  shall  be  care- 

tion  for  ad-  * 

mission,  fully  examined  by  the  Faculty  in  the  learned  lan- 
guages,2 and  in  the  Hebrew  Grammar  and  such 
portions  of  the  Hebrew  Scriptures  as  shall,  from 
time  to  time,  be  required  to  be  studied  previously 
to  admission,  and  also  with  reference  to  his  personal 
piety,  and  his  object  in  pursuing  theological  studies. 

T£oamontfhs  IV.  Those  applicants  whose  testimonials  and  ex- 
amination have  been  satisfactory  to  the  Faculty  shall 
be  furnished  with  a  copy  of  the  Laws  of  the  Institu- 
tion, and  received  on  trial  for  two  months,  during 
which  term  they  shall  enjoy  all  the  privileges  and 
conform  to  all  the  laws  of  the  Seminary.  In  special 
cases  of  doubtful  character,  the  Faculty  may  extend 
the  term  of  trial  to  six  months. 

Not  admit-       V.  If,  at  the  close  of  the  term  of  trial,  the  Faculty 

is  not  satis-  shall  be  satisfied  respecting  any  individual  that,  — 
from  deficiency  of  evidence  of  personal  piety,  or  of 
prudence,  or  of  natural  talent,  or  of  disposition  to 
make  diligent  application  to  study,  or  from  any  other 
just  and  sufficient  cause,  —  it  is  not  expedient  that  he 
should  prosecute  theological  studies,  he  shall  not  be- 
come a  member  of  the  Institution. 

VI.  Those  who  are  approved  at  the  close  of  the 


>n  term  of  trial,  shall  repeat  in  the  presence  of  the 
Faculty,  and  subscribe  in  a  suitable  book  provided 
for  the  purpose,  the  following  Declaration.  "  Deeply 
impressed  with  the  importance  of  an  extensive  fund 
of  knowledge  and  prudence  to  the  ministerial  char- 
acter, and  of  being  correctly  instructed  in  the  Gospel, 
and  consequently  of  attending  a  regular  course  of 
theological  education,  and  having  carefully  read  the 
Laws  of  this  Institution,  I  solemnly  promise  that, 
with  a  single  view  to  my  being  qualified  for  the  Gos- 


LAWS    OF    THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY.  287 

pel  Ministry,  I  will  faithfully  endeavor  to  arrange 
my  plans  and  engagements  in  such  a  manner  that, 
unless  prevented  by  some  unforeseen  and  unavoid- 
able necessity,*  I  shall  go  through  a  three  years' 
course  of  theological  study ;  that  by  the  aid  of  divine 
grace,  I  will,  so  long  as  I  shall  be  a  member  of  this 
Institution,  conscientiously  obey  all  its  Laws,  pay  due 
respect  and  obedience  to  the  Officers,  Trustees  and 
Visitors,  improve,  in  a  faithful  and  Christian  manner, 
the  advantages  of  the  Institution,  and  conduct  toward 
my  fellow  students  as  brethren,  and  toward  all  men 
as  becomes  the  Gospel  of  Christ:" — upon  which  they  Admitted 
shall  be  considered  members  of  this  Seminary.  Provid-  S^P- 
ed  nevertheless,  that  such  pious  applicant  may  be  admit- 
ted, as  shall  have  been  introduced  and  passed  through 
the  term  of  trial  in  the  manner  prescribed  in  the  pre- 
ceding sections,  and  shall  produce  to  the  Faculty  a 
Certificate,  from  the  Trustees  or  a  Committee  of  their 
appointment,  testifying  that  it  appears  to  them,  that  ^°g8no£f£ 
the  peculiarity  of  his  case  is  such,  that  the  object  of  pereacSg  ad° 
this  Institution  may  be  promoted  by  excusing  himm] 
from  that  part  of  the  foregoing  declaration  and  sub- 
scription which  expresses  an  intention  to  devote  him- 
self to  the  work  of  the  Gospel  Ministry ;  in  which  case 
the  words,  "  with  a  single  view  to  my  being  qualified 
for  the  Gospel  Ministry  "  will  be  omitted  in  said  Dec- 
laration. If  any  candidate  for  admission  to  the  Sem- 
inary shall  continue,  for  the  space  of  two  weeks,  to 
refuse  to  make  the  above  declaration  and  subscription, 
after  having  been  regularly  called  upon  by  the  Fac- 
ulty to  do  so,  he  shall  cease  to  enjoy  the  privileges 
of  the  Institution. 


288       HISTORY   OF   ANDOYER    THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY. 


CHAP.   II. 


CHARITABLE    AID. 


I.  The  necessary  expenses  of  indigent  students  at 
students.    faiB  Seminary,  will  be  defrayed  out  of  funds  appro- 
priated  to   this   purpose,   agreeably   to   the   Regula- 
tions in  such  case  provided,  and  as  said  funds  may 
permit. 

certificate  IJ.  Xo  be  placed  or  continued  on  any  charitable 
J^JStabie  foundation  in  this  Seminary,  a  student  must  produce, 
to  the  Trustees  or  Visitors  as  the  Statutes  of  that 
foundation  may  require,  a  Certificate  from  the  Faculty 
that  he  possesses  the  qualifications  severally  required, 
by  the  Statutes  of  the  Institution,  and  of  the  Founda- 
tion from  which  they  recommend  that  he  should 
receive  charitable  aid.* 

Quaiifica-  III.  To  be  entitled  to  maintenance  from  the  Funds 
charitable  of  the  Institution,  a  student,  unless  prevented  by  sick- 
ness, must  reside  at  the  Seminary  nine3  calendar 
months  at  least  in  each  year,  regularly  attending  the 
exercises,  and  diligently  prosecuting  the  studies,  pre- 
scribed, and,  in  all  respects,  conforming  to  the  Statutes 
of  the  Institution,  and  to  the  Laws  and  Orders  of  the 
Trustees. 

Discontin-       IV.  If,  upon  due  and  impartial  examination,  it  be 

worthy,      found  that  any  student  on  a  charitable  Foundation 

has  not  made  reasonable  proficiency  in  the  studies 

prescribed   him,   he   shall    be   continued   thereon  no 

longer. 

Torefundif       V.  Any  student  that  has  received  support  from 
before  com-  any  charity  fund,  who  shall  leave  the  Seminary,  or 

plcting 

course.       be  cut  off  from  it,  before  completing  the  course  of 
studies  prescribed  by  the  Statutes  and  Regulations 
*  See  Appendix  A  (page  316). 


LAWS    OF    THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY.  289 

of  the  Trustees,  shall  be  holden  to  repay  to  the 
Treasurer  the  full  amount  of  all  bills  that  have  been 
remitted  to  him,  unless  in  some  special  case  the 
Trustees  shall  make  an  exception. 


CHAP.    III. 

THE    FACULTY. 

I.  The  President  of  the  Seminary  and  the  Professors 
shall  constitute  the  Faculty. 

II.  The  President  shall  be  appointed  by  the  Trus- 
tees, with  the  approbation  of  the  Visitors.     He  shall,  m 
in  all  cases,  be  an  ordained  Minister  of  the  Congrega- 
tional or  Presbyterian  denomination,  and  shall,  or- 
dinarily, be  also  a  Professor  in  the  Seminary.     If  the 
President  be  not  also  a  Professor  in  the  Seminary, 
he  shall  possess  the  qualifications,  and  shall  at  the 
time  of  his  induction  into  office,  and  at  the  expiration 
of  every  successive  period  of  five  years,  make,  in  the 
presence  of  the  Trustees,  the  Declaration  prescribed 
for  Professors,  by  the  Constitution. 

III.  Professors  are  to  be  appointed  by  the  Trustees  choice  of 
and  approved  by  the  Visitors  in  the  manner  prescribed 

by  the  Statutes. 

IV.  Every  Professor  in  this  Seminary  shall  be  a    Quaimca- 
Master  of  Arts,  of  the  Protestant  Reformed  Religion,  fessors. 
in   communion  with  some  Christian   Church  of  the 
Congregational   or   Presbyterian   denomination,   and 
sustain   the   character   of  a   discreet,   sober,    honest, 
learned  and  pious  man;  and  shall  be  of  sound  and 
orthodox  principles  in  Divinity,   according   to   that 

form  of  sound  words,  or  system  of  evangelical  doc- 
trines, drawn  from  the  Scriptures,  and  denominated 
The  Westminster  Assembly's  Shorter  Catechism.  If 


290       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

on  Associ-on  the  Associate   Foundation,   he  must   also  be  an 

ate     Foun- 
dation,      ordained  Minister  of  the   Congregational  or  Presby- 
terian   denomination,    and    must,    previously   to   his 
inauguration,  be  carefully  examined  by  the  Visitors 
with  reference  to  his  religious  principles. 

8ubac?ibed       ^*  Every  person  appointed  or  elected  a  Professor 
tion.ara"     in  this  Seminary,  shall,  on  the  day  of  his  inaugura- 
tion into  office,  and  in  the  presence  of  the  Trustees, 
publicly  make  and  subscribe  the  following  Declara- 
tion. 

"  I  believe  that  there  is  one  and  but  one  living 
and  true  GOD;  that  the  word  of  GOD,  contained  in  the 
Scriptures  of  the  Old  and  New  Testament,  is  the  only 
perfect  rule  of  faith  and  practice ;  that,  agreeably  to 
those  Scriptures,  GOD  is  a  Spirit,  infinite,  eternal,  and 
unchangeable  in  his  being,  wisdom,  power,  holiness, 
justice,  goodness,  and  truth;  that  in  the  Godhead 
are  three  Persons,  the  FATHER,  the  SON,  and  the  HOLY 
GHOST;  and  that  these  THREE  are  one  GOD,  the  same 
in  substance,  equal  in  power  and  glory;  that  GOD 
created  man,  after  his  own  image,  in  knowledge, 
righteousness,  and  holiness;  that  the  glory  of  GOD 
is  man's  chief  end,  and  the  enjoyment  of  GOD  his 
supreme  happiness;  that  this  enjoyment  is  derived 
solely  from  conformity  of  heart  to  the  moral  char- 
acter and  will  of  GOD;  that  ADAM,  the  federal  head 
and  representative  of  the  human  race,  was  placed  in 
a  state  of  probation,  and  that,  in  consequence  of  his 
disobedience,  all  his  descendants  were  constituted 
sinners;  that  by  nature  every  man  is  personally  de- 
praved, destitute  of  holiness,  unlike  and  opposed  to 
GOD;  and  that,  previously  to  the  renewing  agency  of 
the  DIVINE  SPIRIT,  all  his  moral  actions  are  adverse  to 
the  character  and  glory  of  GOD;  that,  being  morally 
incapable  of  recovering  the  image  of  his  CREATOR, 
which  was  lost  in  ADAM,  every  man  is  justly  exposed 


LAWS    OF    THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY.  291 

to  eternal  damnation ;  so  that,  except  a  man  be  born  Declaration 
again,  he  cannot  see  the  kingdom  of  GOD;  that  GOD, 
of  his  mere  good  pleasure,  from  all  eternity  elected 
some  to  everlasting  life,  and  that  he  entered  into  a 
covenant  of  grace,  to  deliver  them  out  of  this  state  of 
sin  and  misery  by  a  REDEEMER;  that  the  only  REDEEMER 
of  the  elect  is  the  eternal  SON  of  GOD,  who  for  this 
purpose  became  man,  and  continues  to  be  GOD  and 
man  in  two  distinct  natures  and  one  person  forever; 
that  CHRIST,  as  our  Redeemer,  executeth  the  office  of 
a  Prophet,  Priest,  and  King;  that,  agreeably  to  the 
covenant  of  redemption,  the  SON  of  GOD,  and  he  alone, 
by  his  sufferings  and  death,  has  made  atonement  for 
the  sins  of  all  men ;  that  repentance,  faith,  and  holi- 
ness are  the  personal  requisites  in  the  Gospel  scheme 
of  salvation ;  that  the  righteousness  of  CHRIST  is  the 
only  ground  of  a  sinner's  justification;  that  this  right- 
eousness is  received  through  faith ;  and  that  this  faith 
is  the  gift  of  GOD  ;  so  that  our  salvation  is  wholly  of 
grace;  that  no  means  whatever  can  change  the  heart 
of  a  sinner,  and  make  it  holy;  that  regeneration  and 
sanctification  are  effects  of  the  creating  and  renewing 
agency  of  the  HOLY  SPIRIT,  and  that  supreme  love  to 
GOD  constitutes  the  essential  difference  between  saints 
and  sinners;  that,  by  convincing  us  of  our  sin  and 
misery,  enlightening  our  minds,  working  faith  in  us, 
and  renewing  our  wills,  the  HOLY  SPIRIT  makes  us 
partakers  of  the  benefits  of  redemption ;  and  that  the 
ordinary  means,  by  which  these  benefits  are  com- 
municated to  us,  are  the  word,  sacraments,  and 
prayer ;  that  repentance  unto  life,  faith  to  feed  upon 
Christ,  love  to  GOD,  and  new  obedience,  are  the  appro- 
priate qualifications  for  the  Lord's  Supper;  and  that 
a  Christian  Church  ought  to  admit  no  person  to  its 
holy  communion,  before  he  exhibit  credible  evidence 
of  his  godly  sincerity ;  that  perseverance  in  holiness 


292       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

Declaration  is  the  only  method  of  making  our  calling  and  election 
sure;  and  that  the  final  perseverance  of  saints,  though 
it  is  the  effect  of  the  special  operation  of  GOD  on  their 
hearts,  necessarily  implies  their  own  watchful  diligence ; 
that  they,  who  are  effectually  called,  do  in  this  life 
partake  of  justification,  adoption,  and  sanctification, 
and  the  several  benefits  which  do  either  accompany 
or  flow  from  them ;  that  the  souls  of  believers  are  at 
their  death  made  perfect  in  holiness,  and  do  immedi- 
ately pass  into  glory;  that  their  bodies,  being  still 
united  to  CHRIST,  will  at  the  resurrection  be  raised  up 
to  glory,  and  that  the  saints  will  be  made  perfectly 
blessed  in  the  full  enjoyment  of  God  to  all  eternity; 
but  that  the  wicked  will  awake  to  shame  and  ever- 
lasting contempt,  and  with  devils  be  plunged  into  the 
lake,  that  burneth  with  fire  and  brimstone  forever 
and  ever.  I  moreover  believe  that  God,  according  to 
the  counsel  of  his  own  will,  and  for  his  own  glory, 
hath  foreordained  whatsoever  comes  to  pass,  and  that 
all  beings,  actions,  and  events,  both  in  the  natural 
and  moral  world,  are  under  his  providential  direction; 
that  GOD'S  decrees  perfectly  consist  with  human  lib- 
erty; GOD'S  universal  agency  with  the  agency  of  man; 
and  man's  dependence  with  his  accountability;  that 
man  has  understanding  and  corporeal  strength  to  do 
all,  that  GOD,  requires  of  him ;  so  that  nothing,  but  the 
sinner's  aversion  to  holiness,  prevents  his  salvation ; 
that  it  is  the  prerogative  of  GOD,  to  bring  good  out 
of  evil,  and  that  he  will  cause  the  wrath  and  rage  of 
wicked  men  and  devils  to  praise  Him ;  and  that  all 
the  evil,  which  has  existed,  and  will  forever  exist,  in 
the  moral  system,  will  eventually  be  made  to  promote 
a  most  important  purpose  under  the  wise  and  perfect 
administration  of  that  ALMIGHTY  BEING,  who  will  cause 
all  things  to  work  for  his  own  glory,  and  thus  fulfil 
all  his  pleasure. — And  furthermore,  I  do  solemnly 


LAWS    OF    THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY.  293 

promise  that  I  will  open  and  explain  the  Scriptures  Declaration 
to  my  pupils  with  integrity  and  faithfulness;  that  I 
will  maintain  and  inculcate  the  Christian  faith,  as 
expressed  in  the  Creed  by  me  now  repeated,  together 
with  all  the  other  doctrines  and  duties  of  our  holy 
religion,  so  far  as  may  appertain  to  my  office,  accord- 
ing to  the  best  light  God  shall  give  me,  and  in  op- 
position, not  only  to  Atheists  and  Infidels,  but  to 
Jews,  Mahometans,  Arians,  Pelagians,  Antinomians, 
Arminians,  Socinians,  Unitarians,  and  Universalists, 
and  to  all  other  heresies  and  errors,  ancient  or  modern, 
which  may  be  opposed  to  the  Gospel  of  Christ,  or  haz- 
ardous to  the  souls  of  men ;  that,  by  my  instructions, 
counsels  and  example,  I  will  endeavour  to  promote 
true  piety  and  godliness;  that  I  will  consult  the  good 
of  this  Institution,  and  the  peace  of  the  churches  of 
our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  on  all  occasions;  and  that  I 
will  religiously  conform  to  the  Constitution  and  Laws 
of  this  Seminary,  and  to  the  Statutes  of  my  Founda- 
tion."— Professors  on  the  Associate  Foundation  will 
add  to  the  promissory  part  of  the  preceding  Declar- 
ation, the  word  "Papists"  between  the  words  "Jews" 
and  "Mahometans,"  and  the  word  "Sabellians"  be- 
tween the  words  "  Socinians  "  and  "  Unitarians." 

The  preceding  Declaration  shall  be  repeated  by  Declarator 
every  Professor  in  this  Seminary,  in  the  presence  of 
the  Trustees,  at  the  expiration  of  every  successive 
period  of  five  years;  and  no  man  shall  be  continued 
as  President  or  Professor  in  this  Institution  who  shall 
not  continue  to  approve  himself,  to  the  satisfaction  of 
the  Trustees,  a  man  of  sound  and  orthodox  principles 
in  Divinity,  agreeably  to  the  system  of  evangelical 
doctrines  contained  in  the  said  Westminster  Shorter 
Catechism,  and  more  concisely  delineated  in  the  afore- 
said Creed.  Accordingly,  if  at  any  meeting  regularly 
appointed,  it  should  be  proved  to  the  satisfaction  of  a 


294       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

majority  of  the  whole  number  of  the  said  Trustees, 
that  the  President,  or  any  Professor  in  this  Institution, 
has  taught  or  embraced  any  of  the  heresies  or  errors 
alluded  to  in  the  Declaration  aforesaid,  or  should  he 
refuse  to  repeat  the  same  as  required  by  this  Article, 
he  shall  be  forthwith  removed  from  office. 
Duties  of  VI.  The  Trustees  shall  prescribe  the  duties  of  the 

President 

and  Profes-  President;  they  shall  also,  in  conformity  to  the  Statutes 

sors   to  be  *  J 

assigned.  of  every  Founder,  assign  to  the  Professors  their  respec- 
tive departments  of  instruction,  the  times  for  deliver- 
ing their  lectures,  and  their  several  public  and  private 
duties,  in  such  manner  as,  after  consultation  with  the 
said  Professors,  shall,  to  the  said  Trustees,  appear 
most  convenient  and  useful. 
president  VII.  The  President,  and  every  Professor  in  this 

and  Profes- 

J£™™JJbe  Institution,  shall  be  under  the  immediate  inspection 
of  the  Trustees,  and  by  them  be  removed,  agreeably 
to  the  Statutes,  for  gross  neglect  of  duty,  scandalous 
immorality,  mental  incapacity,  or  any  other  just  and 
sufficient  cause.  The  Board  of  Visitors  also  have 
power  to  admonish  or  remove  any  Professor,  in  con- 
formity to  the  Statutes  of  his  Founder,  for  misbe- 
haviour, heterodoxy,  incapacity,  or  neglect  of  the 
duties  of  his  office. 

prMidentof  VIII.  The  immediate  care  and  inspection  of  the 
Pr°~  students  and  the  execution  of  the  Laws  are  vested  in 
the  President  and  Professors  of  the  Institution;  who 
will  be  expected,  while  they  firmly,  promptly  and 
uniformly  enforce  the  Statutes  of  the  Founders  and 
the  Regulations  of  the  Trustees,  to  give  to  their  ad- 
ministration as  much  of  a  paternal  character  as  pos- 
sible. They  shall  encourage  and  cultivate  social, 
friendly  and  familiar  intercourse  with  their  pupils 
individually;  carefully  watch  over  their  health  and 
morals;  and  constantly  and  diligently  endeavour,  by 
inculcating  practical  religion  as  opportunity  may 


LAWS    OF    THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY.  295 

offer,  in  their  Lectures  and  other  public  exercises, 
by  taking  suitable  occasions  to  converse  with  the 
students  privately  on  this  most  important  subject, 
by  giving  them  friendly  advice  in  relation  to  their 
necessary  intercourse  with  men  in  the  various  walks 
of  life,  and  by  every  other  prudent  and  Christian 
method,  to  promote  the  growth  of  true  piety  in  their 
hearts,  and  fit  them  to  be  devoted,  acceptable  and 
useful  Ministers  of  the  Gospel. 

IX.  The  instruction  of  the  students  shall  be  given  students  to 

by  the  President  and  Professors  and  such  Assistants  ed  by  Pres- 
ident   and 
as  shall  be  appointed  by  the  Board  of  Trustees,  agree-  Professors. 

ably  to  the  requisitions  of  said  Board :  and  no  person 
may  undertake  the  business  of  instruction  within  the 
limits  under  the  control  of  the  Trustees  without  first 
obtaining  their  consent. 

X.  Each  Instructor  shall  prepare  a  list  of  such  course    of 

Study       to 

books,  and  point  out  such  a  course  of  study,  in  his  de-  be  pointed 
partment,  as,  in  his  opinion,  may  be  most  congenial 
to  the  true  design  of  this  Institution,  and  most  bene- 
ficial to  the  students ;  which  list  of  books  and  course 
of  study  shall  be  submitted  to  and  approved  by  the 
Trustees. 

XL  The  President  and  Professors  shall  statedly   President 

and  Profes- 

reside  near  the   Seminary,   that,   during  term   time, sors  to  re- 

'  side     near 

they    may    regularly    perform    the    duties    of   their  seminary, 
several   stations    as   required    by    the    Statutes    and 
Laws. 

XII.  Every  public  lecture  shall  be  preceded  and  Prayer    at 

Lectures. 

followed,  and  every  private  lecture  preceded,  by 
prayer. 

XIII.  The  President  is  to  be  regarded  as  the  chief  powers  and 

Duties     of 

executive  officer   of  the   Institution;  and,    as   such, the 

dent. 

shall  watch  over  and  inspect  all  its  interests  and 
concerns.  He  shall  preside,  in  all  meetings  of  the 
Faculty,  at  the  semiannual  examinations,  and  on  all 


296       HISTORY   OF  ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

public  occasions.  He  shall  call  special  meetings  of 
the  Faculty,  whenever  he  shall  judge  it  expedient,  or 
shall  be  requested  to  do  so  by  any  two  members;  and 
in  all  meetings  of  the  Faculty,  he  shall  have  the 
privilege  of  expressing  his  views  and  giving  his  vote 
like  any  other  member.  He  shall,  in  the  manner  pre- 
scribed by  the  Laws,  assign  the  students  their  rooms 
in  the  Halls  of  the  Institution;  grant  permission  to 
reside  out  of  the  Seminary  and  to  board  out  of  Com- 
mons1' ;  direct  as  to  the  manner  in  which  the  students 
shall  conduct  devotional  exercises  at  morning  and 
evening  prayers  and  at  meals;  give  leave  of  absence 
from  the  Seminary;  call  students  to  account  for  tardi- 
ness in  returning  after  vacations,  and  for  delinquen- 
cies in  regard  to  recitations  and  other  public  exer- 
cises that  shall  be  reported  to  him  by  the  Monitors; 
give  certificates  and  recommendations  to  the  students 
not  otherwise  provided  for;  perform  a  due  proportion 
of  the  public  services  of  the  sabbath  and  at  public 
prayers;  regulate  the  preaching  of  the  Senior  stu- 
dents; and,  in  short,  perform  all  executive  duties  not 
assigned  to  the  Faculty  or  to  any  other  individual 
officer.  He  shall  also  act  as  Senior4  Pastor  of  the 
church  in  the  Seminary;  and  shall  take  the  special 
charge  of  Resident  Licentiates.  In  the  absence  of 
the  President,  his  appropriate  duties  shall  be  per- 
formed by  the  Senior  Professor.4 

XIV-  The  Faculty  shall,  in  the  manner  prescribed 
by  the  Laws,  receive  and  act  upon  all  cases  of  appli- 
cation for  admission  to  the  Institution,  and  for  chari- 
table aid ;  examine  and  license  the  Senior  students  to 
preach  in  the  Seminary;  give  certificates  to  Senior 
students  about  to  apply  to  Ecclesiastical  Bodies  for 
license,  and  previously  to  their  leaving  the  Institu- 
tion after  completing  their  course;  investigate  and 
determine  all  cases  of  exception  allowed  to  any  re- 


LAWS    OF    THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY.  297 

quisitions  of  the  Statutes  or  Laws,  and  referred  to 
their  decision;  and  hear  and  judge  in  all  cases  of  dis- 
cipline not  within  the  province  of  an  individual 
officer.  They  shall  have  power  to  prescribe  regula- 
tions respecting  hours  of  study  and  exercise  for  the 
students.  They  shall  report,  annually,  to  the  Trus- 
tees, the  state  of  the  Seminary,  suggesting  subjects 
which  appear  to  them  to  require  the  attention  of  the 
Board;  and  shall  investigate  and  give  their  opinion 
on  all  questions  submitted  to  them  by  the  Trustees 
or  Visitors.  The  Faculty  shall  have  power  to  fix  the 
times  of  their  stated  meetings,  and  to  form  rules  for 
the  regulation  of  their  proceedings;  and  shall  keep  a 
fair  record  of  their  doings,  which  shall  at  all  times 
be  subject  to  the  inspection  and  revision  of  the  Trus- 
tees and  Visitors.  Questions  considered  in  meetings 
of  the  Faculty  shall  be  determined  by  the  vote  of  a 
major  part  of  the  members  present;  and,  when  the 
members  present  shall  be  equally  divided  in  opinion, 
the  question  shall  determine  on  the  side  on  which 
the  President  voted. 

XV.  The  Professors  will  have  the  special  over-  Duties  of 
sight  and  direction  of  the  Classes  attending  on  their  Professors, 
instructions.  They  shall  give  to  the  members  of 
those  classes  all  necessary  advice  and  direction  in  re- 
lation to  their  studies,  and  see  that  they  are  diligent 
in  their  studies,  and  regular  and  punctual  in  their 
attendance  on  lectures  and  recitations.  They  shall 
see  that  the  Monitors  of  the  classes  under  their  in- 
struction discharge  their  duties,  and  shall  call  over 
the  Monitors'  bills  as  required  by  the  Laws.  They 
shall  attend  the  public  examinations,  and  also,  except 
when  excused  by  the  Trustees,  perform  the  parts 
assigned  them  in  the  public  services  of  the  Sabbath, 
and  at  the  daily  public  prayers.  They  shall  consider 
themselves  bound,  as  they  have  opportunity,  to  watch 


298       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY. 

over  the  conduct  and  promote  the  improvement  of  all 
the  students.  They  may  admonish  any  student,  as 
they  shall  judge  requisite,  in  private,  or  before  his 
Class  if  under  their  instruction ;  and  shall  report  to 
the  Faculty  those  whose  delinquencies  have  not  been 
remedied  by  their  individual  counsel  and  discipline. 


CHAP.   IV. 

REGULAR    EXERCISES    AND    DUTIES    OF    THE    STUDENTS. 

students        I.  All  persons  who  may  wish  to  enjoy  the  advan- 
tages of  this  Institution   will  be  required  to  reside 


mary.  statedly  at  the  Seminary  three  full  years,  vacations 
excepted;  nor  can  any  student  leave  the  Seminary  in 
an  honourable  manner,  within  the  term  of  three  years 
of  such  residence,  except  by  permission  specially  ob- 
tained of  the  Trustees,  in  case  of  necessity.0 
students  II.  Every  student  shall  reside  constantly  at  the 

must     be  .  .. 

present  m  Seminary  during  term  time,  unless  prevented  by  sick- 
term  time.  A  t 

ness;  and  no  student  may  go  out  of  town,  to  be  ab- 
sent from  any  lecture  or  other  exercise  of  his  class, 
without  permission  from  the   President,3   or  in   the 
absence  of  the  President,  from  the  Professor  who  has 
the  charge  of  his  Class,  or  in  the  absence  of  that  Pro- 
fessor, from  the  senior  Professor  in  town.     For  every 
Giveexcuse  night's  absence  after  the  expiration  of  a  vacation,  or 
ace'  of  any  permission  to  be  absent  in  term  time,  every 
student    shall    give    a    satisfactory    excuse    to    the 
President, 
students       III.  All  the  students  shall  live  in  the  Halls  of  the 

mustlivein  .  . 

rooms  as- Institution,  occupying  the  rooms  assigned  them, 
special  cases  excepted;  nor  shall  any  student  change 
his  place  of  residence  without  permission  from  the 
President. 


LAWS    OF    THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY.  299 


IV.  The   students   shall,    at   all  times,   treat   the  Treatment 

of    Officers 


Officers,  Trustees  and  Visitors  with  due  respect, 
each  other  with  friendship  and  decorum:  any  failure 
in  these  and  similar  instances  will  be  deemed  cen- 
surable, and,  if  persisted  in,  a  forfeiture  of  the 
privileges  of  the  Institution. 

V.  Each  student  shall  pursue  the  course  of  study,  Duties  in 

J  '  respect     to 

read  the  books,  and  perform  the  exercises  constitu-  8tudies- 
tionally  prescribed  him  by  the  Instructors;  frequently 
ask  their  advice  and  assistance  with  reference  to  his 
studies;  and  often  submit  his  theological  composi- 
tions, especially  his  first  essays,  to  their  friendly  and 
faithful  inspection. 

VI.  The  students  shall  at  all  times,  pay  a  strict  To  observe 

L     '  hours      of 

regard  to  the  regulations  relative  to  hours  of  study  Btudy- 
and  exercises  which  shall  be  prescribed  by  the  Faculty. 

VII.  All  students  in  town  shall  punctually  attend  Attendance 

upon    lect- 

every  public  lecture;  and  every  student  in  each  Class  JJ|B  JJJJJj,0 
shall,  in  like  manner,  attend  the  stated  private  lec- 
tures and  recitations  of  his  Class,  unless  prevented  by 
sickness,  or  by  some  lawful  and  necessary  engage- 
ment which  cannot  be  performed  at  another  time. 
No  student  shall  attend  the  instructions  of  any  person 
not  an  officer  in  this  Seminary  without  permission 
from  the  Trustees. 

VIII.  The  students  shall  respectfully  and  promptly  Give  reas- 
give  their  reasons  for  absence  or  tardiness  when  it  shall 


be  required  of  them,  by  a  Professor,  or  by  the  President. 

IX.  The  bell  for  the  lectures  and  recitations  of  Beii  to  be 
each  Class  shall  be  tolled  by  some  member6  of  the 

Class,  according  to  the  direction  of  its  Instructor. 

X.  The  members  of  the  Junior  and  Middle  Classes    composi- 
shall  write  compositions  as  shall  be  directed  by  the  se°rmonsanto 

be  written. 

Board  of  Trustees,  on  subjects  approved  by  the  In- 
structors of  those  Classes;  said  compositions  to  be 
submitted  to  the  criticism  of  the  officer  to  whom  that 


300       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

• 

duty  shall  be  assigned  by  the  Board.  Each  student 
in  the  course  of  his  Senior  year,  shall  write,  not  less 
than  four  sermons,  on  subjects  approved  by  the  officer 
by  whom  they  are  to  be  examined;  each  of  which 
sermons  shall  be  submitted  to  the  private  and  friendly 
criticism  of  the  Instructor  to  whom  this  duty  shall  be 
assigned;  and  each  sermon,  after  such  criticism,  shall 
be  transcribed  and  re-examined,  as  often  as  the  officer 
to  whom  it  has  been  submitted  shall  deem  necessary, 
sacred  mu-  XI.  Every  student  whose  voice  and  health  .will 
permit,  shallf  devote  so  much  time  to  the  study  and 
practice  of  Sacred  Music  as  will  enable  him,  with  un- 
derstanding and  spirit,  to  take  an  active  part  in  per- 
forming this  duty  of  public  devotion, 
students  XII.  No  student  of  this  Institution  may  undertake 

not    to    be 

instructors  the  business  of  instruction  in  the  immediate  vicinity 

without  * 

leave.         without  the  approbation  of  the  Trustees.5 
certificate       XIII.  Whenever  a  student  shall  have  honourably 
who   fin^  finished  the  term  of  three  years  residence5  at  the  Sem- 
course.       inary  and  the  course  of  studies  prescribed  by  its  Laws, 
a  Certificate,  signed  by  the  President  in  behalf  of  the 
Faculty,  shall  be  given  him,  specifying  how  longh  he 
has  been  connected  with  the  Seminary;  that  lie  has 
prosecuted  his  studies  with  diligence,  and  sustained 
a    good    moral    and    Christian  .  character ;    provided 
always,  that  his  conduct  and  his  proficiency  in  theo- 
logical knowledge  be  such  as  to  merit  the  same. 
Treasurer's       XIV.  No  student  about  to  discontinue  his  connex- 
rian-s    ac- ion  with  the  Seminary,  at  the  close  of  the  course,  or 

counts      to 

be  settled,  at  any  other  time,  shall  receive  the  Certificate  pre- 
scribed of  his  standing  and  character,  or  leave  the  Insti- 
tution, before  he  shall  have  produced  to  the  President 
a  certificate  from  the  Treasurer  that  he  has  discharged 
all  dues  charged  in  his  term  bills,  and  a  certificate  from 
the  Librarian  that  he  has  returned  in  good  order,  or 
replaced,  the  books  he  had  borrowed  from  the  Library. 


LAWS    OF    THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY.  301 


XV.  If  any  student  in    this   Seminary   shall   be  students  to 

J  J  becutofffor 


guilty  of  any  gross  immorality,  or  of  any  insult 
oppugnation  to  any  Trustee,  or  Visitor,  or  Officer  of 
the  Institution,  he  shall  be  cut  off,  by  the  Faculty, 
from  all  the  advantages  and  benefits  of  the  Institu- 
tion, unless  he  make  reasonable  and  immediate  satis- 
faction for  his  offence.  And  if  any  student  shall 
neglect  his  regular  studies,  or  be  guilty  of  any  indis- 
cretion, or  exhibit  in  his  general  deportment  a  levity 
or  indifference  in  regard  to  practical  religion,  or  shall 
in  any  way  violate  the  Laws  of  the  Institution,  he 
shall  be  tenderly  and  faithfully  admonished,  in  pri-To  be  ad- 

r       monished 

vate,  or,  when  judged  expedient,  before  his  Class,  if 
under  the  instruction  of  the  officer  to  whom  the  fact°™ 
is  known,  or  when  the  case  shall  seem  to  require  it, 
by  the  President  in  the  presence  of  the  Faculty.  And 
if  any  student,  after  due  admonition,  shall  continue 
to  exhibit  an  unbecoming  deportment  or  violate  any 
Lay?  of  the  Institution,  he  shall  be  suspended  for  a 
term  not  exceeding  three  months.  And  if  he  shall 
still  neglect  or  refuse  to  give  satisfaction,  he  shall  be 
cut  off  from  the  Seminary.  •  Provided  always,  that  any 
student  who  shall,  for  any  of  the  above  named  causes, 
be  suspended  or  cut  off  from  the  Seminary  by  the  Fac- 
ulty, shall  have  the  right  of  appeal  to  the  Board  of 
Trustees  at  or  before  their  next  meeting. 


CHAP.   V. 

LICENSE  TO  PREACH,  ORDINATION,  AND  DELIVERY  OF  SERMONS. 

I.  The  Senior  students  will  be  required  occasion- seniors  to 

preach  pub- 
ally  to  deliver  sermons  in  public,  in  the  Seminary,  Ucly- 

and  in  neighbouring  congregations,  as  shall  be  judged 
expedient*  by  the  Faculty,  and  in  conformity  with  the 
regulations  of  the  Trustees. 


302       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 
Licensed  to        II.  As  soon  after  the  commencement  of  the  winter 

preach     in 

seminary,  term  as  may  be  deemed  expedient,  the  Faculty,  hav- 
ing thoroughly  examined  the  Senior  Students  as  to 
their  qualifications  and  motives  for  preaching  the  Gos- 
pel, shall  give,  to  each  student  who  shall  be  approved, 
a  Certificate,1  stating  that,  after  due  examination  by 
the  Faculty,  he  has  their  permission  to  pr.each  in  the 
Seminary  according  to  the  Laws;  and  no  student 
shall  preach  publicly  in  the  Seminary  before  he  shall 
have  received  such  a  permission. 
Not  to  III.  No  student  shall  preach  out  of  the  Seminary 

ofseminary  before  he  shall  have  obtained  a  license  to  preach,  in 

without   li-  t  .        . 

cense.        the  customary  form,  from  some  regular  Ecclesiastical 

Body. 

Not  to  be  it-        IV.  No  student  shall  receive  a  license  to  preach 
foTeSesprinJ  from  any  Ecclesiastical  Body  until  near  the  close  of 

vacation. 

the  winter  term  of  his  senior  year,  and  no  student 
shall  be  ordained  before  the  expiration  of  his  regular 
course  in  the  Seminary,  except  in  cases  of  special 
urgency,  to  be  judged  of  by  the  Faculty. 

Not  to  ap-        V.  No  student  shall  apply  to  any  Ecclesiastical 
cense  with- Body  for   license  to  preach,   or  for   ordination,    but 
cate.          jn   virtue  of  a   Certificate   from  the   Faculty,    spec- 
ifying how  longj  he  has  been  connected  with   the 
Seminary  and  attended  to  the  studies  prescribed  by 
the   Laws   of  the  Institution,   and   stating   that   he 
sustains  a  fair  Christian  character,  and  that  he  has 
the  consent  of  the  Faculty  to  his  making  such  ap- 
plication, 
preaching       VI.  Those  students  who  have  the  permission  of 

directed  by    ,         _         .  ITI-IOI 

President,  the  faculty  to  preach  publicly  in  the  Seminary, 
shall  perform  that  duty  as  shall  be  directed  by  the 
President. 

Limits   of       VII.  No  student  who  has  been  regularly  licensed 

Seniors' 

?.  by   an   Ecclesiastical   Body,    shall   ever   preach    out 
of  the   Seminary   at    a   greater    distance    from    the 


LAWS    OF    THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY.  303 

Institution  than  twenty  five  miles,  except  in  the 
Spring  vacation  of  the  Senior  year,  and  when,  by 
previous  permission  of  the  Faculty  or  from  una- 
voidable necessity  to  be  judged  of  by  the  Faculty, 
not  residing  at  the  Seminary  in  term  time.  No 
student  shall  preach  out  of  the  Seminary  within  the 
distance  of  twenty  five  miles k  in  term  time,  without 
permission  from  the  President;  and  it  is  recommended 
to  the  President  not  to  permit  any  student  to  com- 
mence preaching  out  of  the  Seminary,  in  term  time, 
until  the  seventh  Sabbath  preceding  the  anniversary 
at  which  he  is  to  complete  his  course  of  study. 

VIII.  No  sermon   shall  be  publicly  delivered  in  sermons  to 

be       p.Ttarn- 

the  Seminary  by  any  student,  in  term  time,  which  i^ed. 
has  not  been  examined  and  approved  by  a  Professor. 

IX.  Any    student    who    shall    violate    either    of     students 

,  , .  cut  off  who 

the  above  regulations  respecting  license  and  ordina-  violate  the 

above  laws. 

tion  and  the  delivery  of  sermons,6  shall  be,  forth- 
with, cut  off,  by  the  Faculty,  from  the  Institution; 
he  haying  the  right  of  appeal  to  the  Trustees.6 


CHAP.   VI. 

RESIDENT  LICENTIATES. 

I.  One  or  more  of  those  students  who  shall,  in  Abbot  Resi. 
each  year,  have  completed  their  course  of  three 
years'  study  in  this  Institution,  and  shall  have  evi- 
denced the  greatest  diligence  and  the  most  valuable 
acquisitions,  added  to  the  strongest  powers  of  mind, 
may  be  placed  or  continued  on  the  Abbot  Founda- 
tion, agreeably  to  the  provisions  of  said  Foundation, 
for  the  purpose  of  continuing  their  theological 
studies  and  literary  researches.  [See  App.  B.] 

II.7  Other  students  who  have  honourably  passed     Resident 

J  Licentiates. 

a  regular  course  of  theological  study  may  also  be 


304       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

permitted,  by  the  Faculty,  to  reside  at  the  Seminary, 
with  the  privilege  of  having  access  to  the  Library 
and  to  the  instructions  of  the  officers  and  to  other 
exercises  of  the  Institution. 

under  the  III.8  Persons  thus  connected  with  the  Seminary 
shall  be  under  the  special  charge  of  the  President, 
and,  when  in  town,  shall  be  under  the  same  obliga- 
tion as  the  Students  to  attend  the  devotional  exer- 
cises of  the  Seminary:  and  those  on  the  Abbot 
Foundation  shall  pursue  such  studies  as  shall  be 
prescribed  by  the  Faculty. 


CHAP.   VII. 

DEVOTIONAL    EXERCISES. 

It  should  be  regarded,  by  every  student  and 
Resident  Licentiate  in  this  Seminary,  as  an  object 
of  primary  importance  to  grow  continually  in  a 
spirit  of  enlightened  devotion  and  fervent  piety; 
deeply  impressed  with  the  sentiment  that,  without 
this,  all  his  other  acquisitions  will  be  comparatively 
of  little  worth,  either  to  himself,  or  to  the  Church 
of  Christ.  He  must  remember  too,  that  this  is  a 
species  of  improvement  which  must,  of  necessity, 
be  left,  in  a  great  measure  with  himself,  as  a  con- 
cern between  God  and  his  own  soul.  It  is  proper 
however  to  delineate  the  path  of  duty,  to  express 
the  wishes  and  expectations  of  the  Founders  of  the 
Institution  and  of  the  Trustees,  and  to  make  such 
requisitions  as  the  nature  of  the  subject  will  permit. 
Devout  ex-  ^  ^  *s  exPecte(l  *na*  every  student  and  Resident 
ercises.  Licentiate  connected  with  this  Seminary  will  daily 
spend  a  portion  of  time,  in  devout  meditation,  read- 
ing the  Scriptures  with  a  view  to  a  personal  and  prac- 
tical application,  and  in  humble  and  fervent  prayer. 


LAWS    OF    THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY.  305 

The  Sabbath  is  to  be  employed  in  religious  duties,  observance 
social  and  secret.  Walking  abroad  for  exercise,  and 
conversation,  arid  pursuits  not  adapted  directly  to  pro- 
mote personal  piety,  are,  on  this  day,  to  be  avoided. 
Associations  for  prayer  and  praise,  and  for  religious 
conference,  are  proper  for  this  day,  subject  to  such 
regulations  as  the  President  may  see  fit  to  prescribe. 

II.  Every  morning  and  evening,  during  term  Morning 
time,  religious  exercises  shall  be  performed  in  the  ingprayers. 
Chapel,  in  the  following  manner.  The  divine  assist- 
ance and  blessing  shall  be  first  implored  in  a  short 
prayer ;  a  devotional  chapter  or  psalm  shall  then  be 
read  from  the  Scriptures,  accompanied,  when  an 
officer  officiates,  with  pious  and  practical  reflections; 
or  instead  of  this,  once  at  least  in  every  week,  an 
exposition  shall  be  given  upon  some  deeply  inter- 
esting passage  of  Scripture;  to  this  shall  succeed  a 
piece  of  genuine  psalmody;  and  the  services  shall  be 
concluded  by  an  appropriate  prayer.  In  these  exer- 
cises the  President  or  a  Professor  shall  preside  and 
ordinarily  officiate;  but  Students  of  two  years  stand- 
ing may  occasionally  perform  them  in  whole  or  in 
part,  according  to  the  regulations  prescribed  by  the 
President.  The  singing  shall  be  performed  by  those  students  to 
students  who  attend  to  the  study  and  practice  of 
sacred  music. 

III.'  Morning  prayers  shall  be  attended  at  seven    Time  of 

o'clock,  from  the  commencement  of  the  winter  term  and    even- 
ing pray  era 
till  January  15th;  from.  Jan.   15th  to   February  1st, 

at  a  quarter  before  seven ;  from  Feb.  1st  to  Feb.  15th 
at  half  past  six;  from  Feb.  15th  to  March  1st,  at  a 
quarter  past  six;  from  March  1st  to  the  end  of  the 
year,  at  six  o'clock.  Evening  prayers  shall  be  at- 
tended, from  the  commencement  of  the  winter  term 
till  March  20th,  at  the  going  down  of  the  sun,  and 
during  the  remainder  of  the  year  at  six  o'clock. 


306       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY, 
chapel  ser-        IV.  Divine  services  shall  be  publicly  celebrated 

vices  on  the  L 

sabbath.  jn  the  Chapel  of  the  Seminary,  in  the  forenoon 
and  afternoon  of  every  Lord's  day,  during  term 
time.  There  shall  also  be  service  in  the  Chapel 
on  the  days  appointed  by  the  Civil  Authority  for 
public  thanksgiving,  and  for  fasting,  humiliation 
and  prayer.  These  services  shall  usually  be  per- 
formed by  the  President  and  Professors,  but  some- 
times by  such  Senior  students  as  may  have  received 
permission  from  the  Faculty  to  preach  in  the  Semi- 
nary: the  proportion  of  such  services  performed  by 
said  students  not  to  exceed  one  fourth  part, 
weekly  V.  The  Faculty  may  appoint  at  least  one  general 

Conference. 

weekly  Conference,  for  the  purpose  of  promoting, 
among  the  students,  practical  piety  and  preparation 
for  the  active  duties  of  the  ministry.  And,  when- 
ever the  good  of  the  Seminary  may  seem  to  require 
Days  of  it,  the  Faculty  may  set  apart  a  day  for  special  hu- 
miliation and  prayer  by  the  officers  and  members 
of  the  Institution,  to  be  spent  in  such  exercises  as 
the  President  shall  direct. 

Duty  to  at-  VI.  Every  student  in  this  Seminary,  shall  con- 
stantly, punctually  and  seriously  attend,  morning 
and  evening  prayers;  the  public  services  of  the 
Chapel  on  the  Sabbath,  and  on  days  of  fasting  and 
of  thanksgiving;  and  on  all  stated  and  occasional 
Conferences,  and  seasons  of  special  devotion,  ap- 
pointed by  the  Faculty. 


CHAP.   VIII. 

ANNIVERSARY    AND    PUBLIC    EXAMINATIONS. 

I.  At  the  close  of  the  second  term,  in  September, 
in  each  year,  there  shall  be  a  public  Anniversary; 
the  exercises  of  which  shall  be  confined  to  the  Senior 


LAWS    OF    THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY.  307 

Class,  and  shall  embrace  all  the  departments  of 
instruction  in  the  Seminary.  Copies  of  the  written 
performances  at  the  Anniversaries  shall  be  furnished 
to  the  President,  by  the  respective  performers,  to 
be  deposited  in  the  Library, 

II.  There  shall  be  annually,   at  the  close  of  the  semiamra- 

•"  f  alExamina- 

winter  term,  a  particular  and  thorough  examination tion- 
of  the  classes  in  the  several  branches  taught  in  the 
Seminary ;  and  there  shall  be,  at  the  close  of  the  year, 
an  examination  of  the  several  classes1  in  the  studies 
of  the  previous  term. 

III.  All  the  students  shall  regularly  attend 
public   examinations  of  their  several  Classes. 
student  who  shall  be  absent  from,  or  shall  not  satis-  on* 
factorily  pass,  the  examination  at  the  close  of  either 
term,  shall  be  examined  by  the  Faculty,  at  the  com- 
mencement of  the  following  term,  or  on  his  return,  in 
the  same  things  in  which  his  class  were  last  exam- 
ined.    And  if  any  Student  shall  not  be  prepared  for, 

or  shall  not  satisfactorily  pass,  this  special  examina- 
tion when  required  of  him,  he  shall  be  directed  to 
make  up  his  deficiencies;  in  default  of  which,  he  shall 
not,  except  in  very  special  cases,  be  permitted  to 
proceed  with  his  class  in  their  course. 

IV.m  A  Committee  of  Examination  shall  be  formed  committee 

of     exami- 

in  the  following  manner,  viz.,  the  Visitors  shall  an-nation- 
nually  elect  one  member  of  their  Board;  the  Trustees 
shall  annually  elect  three  members  of  their  Board; 
and  these  four,  or  the  Faculty  at  their  request,  shall 10 
elect  three  or  more  distinguished  literary  and  relig- 
ious characters,  as  they  shall  judge  expedient;11  and, 
according  to  the  direction  of  this  Committee,  and  in 
their  presence,  and  in  presence  of  the  Faculty,  the  ^eaence!86 
examination  shall  be  conducted  by  the  Instructors. 

V.  The  above  described  Committee  shall  report  the  committee 

to  report 

results  of  their  examinations  to  the  respective  Boards. 


308       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 


CHAP.  IX. 


MONITORS. 

B.Monitors'  J.  A  Monitor's  bill  shall  be  kept,  with  reference 
to  all  the  exercises,  public  and  private,  in  each  de- 
partment, and  all  the  public  devotional  exercises  of 
the  Seminary,  and  all  other  stated  exercises  pre- 
scribed by  the  Laws,  or  by  the  Faculty  in  conformity 
with  the  Laws. 

appointed"  ^-  Each  Instructor  having  special  charge  of  a 
tors*118*  lc~  Class,  shall  appoint  a  Monitor  for  that  class,  to  serve 
compensa-  a^  least  for  one  term  ;  he  to  receive  such  compensation 

for  the  service  as  the  Trustees  shall  prescribe. 
Monitors'       III.  The   Monitor   of  each   Class   shall   carefully 

duty. 

note    the    cases    of    tardiness    and    absence    in    the 
members   of   his   class,    from    each    exercise   of   the 
Seminary    which    they    are    required    to    attend    by 
the  Laws. 
Bins  to  be       IV.  The  Monitor's  bill  of  each  Class  shall,  gener- 

called  over. 

ally,  be  called  over,  by  the  Instructor  of  that  class,  at 
its  first  classical  exercise  in  each  week. 

Bills  to  be  V.  Each  Monitor  shall  present  to  the  President, 
on  the  first  Monday  in  every  month,  his  bill  for  the 


of  term,  preceding  month,  with  the  total  view,  in  one  column, 
of  the  delinquencies  marked  against  each  name;  and, 
in  another  column,  a  total  of  delinquencies  unex- 
cused.  And  at  the  end  of  each  term,  a  similar  total 
shall'be  made  out  for  the  whole  term,  and  inspected 
by  the  Faculty  before  the  usual  certificate  for  charity 
is  given. 
chairman  VI.  The  Monitor  of  the  Senior  Class  shall  be  con- 

of       Moni- 

tors.         sidered  as  chairman  of  the  Monitors,  and  endeavour  to 
promote  uniformity  and  punctuality,  in  the  perform 
ance  of  their  duties. 


LAWS    OF    THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY.  309 


CHAP.  X. 

TREASURER. 

I.  A  Treasurer  shall  be  annually  chosen  by  the   Treasurer 
Trustees,  out  of  their  own  number,  who  shall  continue 

in  office  till  his  place  is  supplied  by  a  new  election. 

II.  The  Treasurer  shall,  previously  to  his  receiv-  Treasurer's 
ing  the  Interest  of  the  Seminary  into  his  hands,  give 

Bond  for  the  faithful  discharge  of  his  office,  in  such 
sum  as  the  Trustees  shall  direct,  with  sufficient  Sure- 
ties, to  the  Trustees  of  the  Seminary  for  the  time  being 
by  name ;  said  bond  to  express  the  use  both  in  the  obli- 
gatory part  and  in  the  condition.  He  shall  give  du- 
plicate receipts  for  all  monies  received,  countersigned 
by  one  of  the  Trustees,  one  to  the  Donor,  the  other  to 
be  lodged  with  such  member  as  the  Trustees  shall 
from  time  to  time  direct;  and  the  Trustees  shall  take 
such  other  measures  as  they  shall  judge  requisite,  to 
make  the  Treasurer  accountable,  and  effectually  to 
secure  the  interests  of  the  Seminary. 

CHAP.   XL 

LIBRARY. 


I.  The  Library  shall  be  committed  to  the  imme-    Librarian 
diate  care  of  a  Librarian:  who  shall  give  bond  for  the° 
faithful  discharge  of  his  trust ;  in  such  sum,  and  with 

Duty. 

such  surety  or  sureties  as  the  Trustees  shall  direct; 
who  shall  be  allowed  a  reasonable  compensation  for 
his  services,  and  be  chosen  for  a  term  not  exceeding 
three  years;  subject,  nevertheless,  to  removal  for  mis- 
behaviour or  neglect  of  duty,  within  the  said  term,  at 
the  discretion  of  the  Board;  and  on  his  removal,  or,  at 
the  expiration  of  his  term,  he  shall  give  an  account 


310       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

of  the  Library  to  the  Trustees,  or  to  a  committee  of 
their  appointment;  who  shall  inspect  the  Library, 
and  see  that  all  the  books  are  in  proper  state  and 
order,  before  another  choice;  and  if,  through  his 
neglect,  the  Library  shall  have  suffered,  it  shall  be 
made  good  oufc  of  his  salary,  or  otherwise  at  his 
expense. 
May  ap-  II.  The  Librarian  may  appoint  a  Substitute ;  who 

point    sub-  ... 

stitute.       shall,  in  the  absence  of  the   Librarian,  perform  his 

duty. 
Engraving        III.  A   print   of   some    emblematical    engraving, 

and  donor's    , 

name.  shall  be  pasted  .in  the  beginning  or  every  volume  be- 
longing to  the  Library:  in  volumes  presented  to  the 
Library,  the  name  of  the  Donor  shall  be  inscribed. 

Disposition        IV.  The  disposition  of  all  books  in   the  Library 

of       Books  r  J 

lo^ue  °ata"  8"a*l  ke  made  by  a  special  committee  appointed  by  the 
Trustees;  and  there  shall  be  constantly  kept  in  the 
Library  an  alphabetical  Catalogue,  in  which  the  title, 
size,  place  and  number  of  copies  and  volumes  of 
every  author  shall  be  noted. 

Books  not       Y.  Whereas  certain  books  may  be  of  such  value 

to  be  loan- 
ed, and  nature  that  they  ought  not  to  be  taken  from  the 

Library,  but  always  kept  there  for  occasional  consul- 
tation, such  as  Biblia  Polyglotta,  &c. ;  the  particular 
books  of  this  description    shall   be  determined  and 
marked  by12  a  Committee11  for  this  purpose  appointed, 
no  one  of  which  shall  be  loaned  by  the  Librarian 
without  special  permission  of  the  Trustees. 
or^utS?        ^'  ^°  Person  snall  g°  into  the  Library  without 
Intt    pres"tne  Librarian  or  his  Substitute,  except  as  provided 
in  the  ninth  Section  of  this  Chapter;13  and  no  other 
person  may  have  a  key  of  the  Library, 
who  may        VII.  Founders,  Visitors,  Trustees,  the  President, 

borrow 

books.  Professors  and  other  Instructors  in  the  Seminary,  In- 
structors of  Phillips  Academy,  Resident  Licentiates, 
Students  of  the  Seminary,  settled  Ministers  of  the 


LAWS    OF    THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY.  311 

Gospel  in  the  town  of  Andover,  and  such  other  per- 
sons as  may  obtain  a  special  license  for  the  purpose 
from  a  Committee  appointed  by  the  Trustees,14  may 
borrow  books  from  the  Library. 

VIII.  No  book  shall  be  loaned,15  or  returned  with-      Manner 

in      which 


out  the  knowledge  and  presence  of  the  Librarian  or 

his  Substitute;  who  shall  note  the  state  of  every  book  or  returned 

at  its  delivery  and  return.     He  shall  also  keep  a  fair 

record  of  the  person  borrowing  or  returning  a  book; 

of  the  time  when,  and  of  its  title;  which  record  shall 

be  signed  by  the  borrower.0     But  a  Founder,  Visitor, 

Trustee,  the  President,  a  Professor,  or  an  Instructor 

of  Phillips  Academy,  may  borrow  books   by  proxy, 

producing  a  written  order  therefor,  and  subscribing 

the  record  in  his  behalf.     The  President  and  the  Pro- 

fessors may,  in  special  cases,  be  excused  from  signing 

the  record. 

IX.  The  Librarian  or  his  Substitute  will  attend    Librarian 

to      attend 

upon  gentlemen  in  the  government  of  the  Institution  gentlemen. 
and  Academy,16  for  the  delivery  and  receipt  of  books, 
at  such  times  as  may  best  suit  their  convenience;  and 
he  will  give  his  attendance,  or  lend  the  key  of  the 
Library  to  the  President  or  to  a4  Professor,  when  he 
may  have  occasion  to  consult,  in  the  Library,  any 
book  in  the  line  of  his  profession. 

X.17  The  stated  time  for  loaning  books  to  Students  ,  Time  of 

loaning 

and  Resident  Licentiates  shall  be  from  two  to  four^esnt8to 
o'clock  of  every  Saturday  afternoon  in  term  time. 

XI.  No  student  or  Resident  Licentiate  may  have  Number  to 
on  loan  at  one  time,  more  than  three  books,  in  addi-  ed  and  how 

long  kept. 

tion  to  such  necessary  classical  books  as,  by  a  written 
order  from  an  Instructor,  he  may  be  authorized  to 
borrow;  nor  shall  any  Student  or  Resident  Licentiate 
exchange  a  book  within  a  week,  or  retain  one  longer 
than  four  weeks,  from  the  time  it  was  loaned,  except 
by  a  like  order. 


312       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 
Books  to  be       XII.  All  books  borrowed  by  a  Student  or  Resi- 

returned. 

dent  Licentiate  not  present  during  a  vacation,  shall 
be  returned  previously  to  his  leaving  town;  and  no 
d  out  book  borrowed  from  the  Library  by  either  shall  be 


carried  out  of  the  town.  And  once  in  every  year, 
viz.  at  the  close  of  the  winter  term,  all  books,  by 
whomsoever  borrowed,  shall  be  punctually  returned, 
for  the  purpose  of  a  careful  inspection  of  the  whole 
Library. 

Books    m-       XIII.  If  a  book,  while  loaned  to  any  person,  be 
to  be  made  iniured  or  defaced,  the  borrower  shall  make  reasonable 

good. 

compensation  therefor,  to  the  satisfaction  of  a  Com- 
mittee for  that  purpose  appointed  by  the  Trustees. 
If  any  person  detain  a  book  beyond  the  time  limited 
by  Law,  he  shall  not  borrow  another  before  he  shall 
have  returned  the  former.  If  any  person  shall  lose  a 
book  belonging  to  the  Library,  he  shall  furnish  a 
similar  volume;  or,  in  default  of  this,  pay  its  full 
value  ;  and,  if  it  belong-  to  a  set,  he  may,  if  the  Libra- 
rian think  proper,  be  required  to  take  the  remaining 
volumes,  and  replace  or  pay  for  the  whole  set. 

Tax  for  use  XIV.  Each  Student  shall  pay  for  the  use  of  the 
y'  Library  three  dollars  a  year  ;  two  dollars  to  be  taxed 
in  his  bill  for  the  winter  term,  and  one  dollar  in  his 
bill  for  the  summer  term. 

Library  to  XV.  The  Library  shall  be  well  aired  one  day  in  a 
week,  if  weather  permit,  and  swept  and  dusted  once 
a  month;  and,  previously  to  the  annual  inspection  of 
the  Library,  the  books  on  each  shelf  shall  be  taken 
down,  and  carefully  dusted,  and  the  shelf  well  brushed. 

Record  of        XVI.  The  Librarian  shall,  from  time  to  time,  make 

tors.  a  fair  entry,  in  a  book  of  record  for  this  purpose  pro- 
vided, of  the  name  of  each  BENEFACTOR  of  the  Library, 
and  of  the  books  by  him  presented;  which  Record 
shall  be  open  to  the  inspection  of  all  men. 


LAWS    OF    THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY.  313 


CHAP.   XII." 

COMMONS. 

I.  The  Commons  shall  be  under  the  direction  of  a 

tendent  of 

Superintendent  chosen  by  the  Trustees.     The  Super- commons, 
intendent  shall  have  power  to  appoint  a  Steward;  and 
shall  have  the  immediate  inspection  and  direction  of  Duty 
the  department  of  Steward,  and  all  persons  employed 
in  it:  he  shall,  also,  make  and  conclude  all  contracts 
for  stated  and  occasional  help,  make  and  direct  all 
purchases  of  provisions  and  other  necessaries,  keep 
fair  and  regular  accounts  of  all  purchases  and  expen- 
ditures for  the  department,  and  make  out  proper  term 
bills  agreeably  to  the  direction  of  the  Trustees. 

II.  It  shall  be  the  duty  of  the  Steward,  to  see  to    r>uty  of 

J  Steward. 

the  ringing  and  tolling  of  the  bell  for  Prayers  and  for 
Commons;  to  measure,  weigh,  receive,  and  store  pro- 
visions and  other  necessaries  for  the  Institution ;  to  see 
that  three  meals  of  good  victuals  be  well  cooked  and 
served  up  in  the  Hall,  each  day  in  term  time,  dinner 
at  half  past  twelve  o'clock,  breakfast  and  supper  im- 
mediately after  morning  and  evening  prayers.  He 
shall,  also,  keep  an  exact  account  of  time  each  Student 
and  Resident  Licentiate  is  in  Commons  in  a  term; 
fence  and  cultivate  the  lands  appropriated  to  the  Insti- 
tution; and  have  the  immediate  care  of  all  the  pro- 
duce, stores,  utensils,  and  property  connected  with 
his  department,  agreeably  to  such  directions  as  he 
may,  from  time  to  time,  receive  from  the  Superin- 
tendent. 

III.  The  Steward  shall  cause  all  the  rooms  occu-    care    of 

rooms    and 

pied  by  Students   and   Resident   Licentiates  in   thedotiies. 
Halls  of  the  Institution,  and  the  entries  of  said  Halls, 
to  be  cleanly  swept  twice  in  a  week,  and  their  beds 
made  every  day.     He  shall  also  take  care  that  their 


314      HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY. 

bed  linen  and  clothes  be  well  washed,  mended,  and 
ironed,  as  often  as  necessary, 
students  to        IV.  All  the   Students  shall  board   in    Commons, 

board       in 

commons,  special  cases  excepted;   and  no   Student  shall  board 
out  of  Commons,  or  change  his  place  of  boarding, 
without  permission  from  the  President. 
Names         V.  Every  Student  and  Resident  Licentiate,  upon 

must      be  .  .  . 

entered  in  his  admission,  return  after  vacation,  or  any  occasional 

Steward's  '  J 

books.  absence,  shall  enter  his  name  in  the  Steward's  book; 
and  when  going  out  of  town  for  three  or  more  nights, 
he  shall  enter  his  name  in  like  manner;  and,  if  he 
neglect  such  entry,  he  shall  be  liable  to  be  charged 
for  Commons  during  his  absence.  If  any  one  shall 
board  in  Commons  without  previously  entering  his 
name  in  the  Steward's  book,  he  shall  be  charged 
double  the  price  of  board  in  Commons  during  the 
time  he  shall  neglect  such  entry.  And  every  Student 
shall  be  held  liable  to  pay  for  board  in  Commons  who 
shall  without  permission  board  out  of  Commons. 

Duties    of        VI.18  No  Student  or  Resident  Licentiate  shall  take 

the  table. 

his  seat  at  table  before  a  blessing  is  asked,  or  leave 
the  Hall,  except  in  case  of  necessity,  before  thanks 
are  returned;  which  duty  shall  be  performed  in  such 
manner  as  the  President  shall  direct. 
Time   in        VII.  Previously  to   the   close   of  each   term,   the 

Commons 

™tbystewe-  Steward  shall  furnish  the  Committee  for  ascertaining 
the  expenses  incurred  in  the  same,  a  schedule  of  the 
time  each  Student  and  Resident  Licentiate  has  dieted 
in  the  Hall;  also  of  the  stock,  fuel,  and  stores  on 
hand, 
price  of  VIII.  A  Committee  of  two  persons  shall  be  ap- 

Commons  * 

to  be  fixed,  pointed  by  the  Trustees,  who,  with  the  assistance  of 
the  Superintendent,  shall  ascertain  and  adjust  the 
current  expenses  in  each  term ;  in  which  shall  be  in- 
cluded, the  wages  given  for  stated  and  occasional 
help,  and  the  prime  cost  of  provisions,  fuel,  and  other 


LAWS    OF    THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY.  315 

necessaries,  consumed  in  the  term;  the  aggregate  of 
all  which  shall  be  averaged  upon  the  Students  and 
Resident  Licentiates  according  to  the  time  each  has 
boarded  in  Commons  during  the  term ;  and  the  bills 
shall  be  made  out  accordingly  by  the  Superinten- 
dent. And,  inasmuch  as  the  salaries  of  the  Super- 
intendent and  Steward  are  a  permanent  expense 
not  affected  by  the  numbers  boarding  in  Com- 
mons, and  for  the  purpose  of  diminishing  as  much 
as  possible  the  price  of  board  in  Commons,  these 
salaries  shall  be  assessed  upon  the  whole  body  of 
the  Students.19 

IX.  Every  bill  for  board  in  Commons  which  is  not  interest  to 
paid  at  the  close  of  the  term,  shall  bear  interest  from 

that  time  until  paid. 

X.  It  shall  be  the  duty  of  every  Student  or  Resi-  Glasa    and 
dent  Licentiate  forthwith  to  repair  any  window  glass  SSenUreto 
which  he  may  break,  to  repair  or  replace  any  furniture 
which  may  be  broken  or  injured  in  the  room  occupied 

by  him,  and  to  make  good  any  damage  he  may  do  to 
the  buildings  or  other  property  of  the  Institution. 
The  Superintendent  shall  see  to  the  execution  of  this 
regulation. 


CHAP.   XIII. 

VACATIONS. 

I.2'  There  shall  be  two  vacations  in  every  year,  vacations. 
each  of  five  weeks  duration;  the  first,  commencing 
on  the  Thursday  following  the  fourth  Wednesday  in 
September;  the  Second,   on  the  last  Wednesday  in 
April* 

II.  All  the  Students  shall  be  amenable  to  the  gov-  conduct  in 

0          Vacation. 

eminent  of  the  Institution  for  their  conduct  and  de- 
portment during  the  vacations. 


316       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 
Punctual          III.  All  the  Students  shall  return  to  the  Seminary 

return.  * 

on  or  before  the  first  day  of  each  term.  They  shall  riot, 
in  vacation,  make  any  engagement  whatever,  without 
the  previous  permission  of  the  President,  that  will  inter- 
fere with  a  strict  conformity  to  this  requirement.  And 
no  excuse  shall  be  received  for  absence  after  the  com- 
mencement of  a  term,  but  sickness,  or  other  unavoid- 
able necessity,  to  be  judged  of  by  the  President. 


APPENDIX. 


Provisions  of  the  Associate  Statutes  respecting  Charitable  Aid. 

"  For  admission  on  the  ASSOCIATE  FOUNDATION,  every  Applicant 
shall  be  introduced  by  letters  of  recommendation  from  devout 
and  influential  characters,  and  shall  exhibit  satisfactory  evidence 
of  his  distinguished  abilities  and  gracious  sincerity;  and  by  an 
examination  in  the  learned  languages,  shall  evince  that,  in  these 
respects,  he  is  qualified  to  enter  upon  theological  studies;  which 
examination  shall  be  made  by  a  Standing  Committee  for  this  pur- 
pose appointed  by  the  VISITORS  of  this  Foundation.  Moreover, 
no  applicants  except  Congregationalists  and  Presbyterians  shall 
be  admitted  upon  this  Foundation;  and  a  College  education  shall  be 
ever  deemed  an  essential  condition  of  admission,  except  only  in 
some  rare  case  of  distinguished  talents,  information  and  piety.  After 
examination  by  the  Standing  Committee,  and  after  reading  the 
Constitution  of  the  Seminary  and  the  Statutes  of  the  ASSOCIATE 
FOUNDERS,  every  Applicant  shall  make  and  Subscribe,"  the  Decla- 
ration inserted  Chap.  I.  Sect.  6;  "after  which,  any  Candidate, 
approved  by  said  Committee,  may  be  recommended  for  admis- 
sion as  a  Resident  Applicant  on  trial  for  two  months;  and  if,  at  the 
expiration  of  this  term,  the  Faculty  approve  him,  he  may  be  placed 
on  the  list  of  Resident  Students  till  the  next  annual  meeting  of  the 
VISITORS;  and  if,  upon  examination  by  the  Board  of  VISITORS,  he 
be  then  approved,  he  shall  be  registered  as  an  Associate  Student. 
But,  if  not  approved  by  the  VISITORS,  after  careful  examination 
and  the  best  information  respecting  him,  he  shall  be  dismissed 
from  the  Foundation." 


LAWS    OF    THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY.  317 

B. 

Extract  from  the  Will  of  the  late  Samuel  Abbot  Esq.  of  Andover. 

"  Whereas  the  cause  of  Christianity  may  be  essentially  pro- 
moted by  encouraging  a  few  young  men,  eminently  distinguished 
by  their  talents,  industry  and  piety  to  continue  their  theological 
studies  and  literary  researches,  at  an  Institution  where,  with  the 
assistance  of  able  Professors,  they  may  enjoy  the  singular  advan- 
tage of  exploring  a  public  Library  abounding  in  books  on  general 
science  and  richly  endowed  with  rare  and  costly  writings,  in  va- 
rious languages,  on  subjects  highly  interesting  to  the  cause  of 
sacred  truth;  my  will  further  is,  that  the  Trustees  and  Professors 
aforesaid  have  liberty  and  power  to  select,  and  to  continue  or 
place,  at  their  discretion,  on  my  said  Foundation,  for  the  purpose 
aforesaid,  and  for  the  term  of  one  year,  or  longer  if  deemed  use- 
ful and  best,  one  or  more  such  students  as  shall  have  completed 
their  course  of  three  years'  study  in  said  Institution,  and  shall 
have  evidenced  the  greatest  diligence  and  the  most  valuable 
acquisitions,  added  to  the  strongest  powers  of  mind;  provided 
always,  that  the  number  of  such  selected  students  shall  never 
exceed,  in  any  year,  the  proportion  of  one  in  seven  of  the  whole 
number  of  students  on  my  said  Foundation;  that  the  selection 
never  be  made  but  upon  full  conviction  that  the  Interests  of  true 
religion  will  be  thereby  specially  promoted;  that  the  said  selected 
students  conform  to  all  the  regulations  and  requisitions,  herein 
provided,  or  by  the  said  Trustees  hereafter  provided,  relative  to 
said  selected  students;  and  that  the  said  selected  students  in  no 
case  be  thus  continued  on  my  said  Foundation  more  than  four 
additional  years:  and  my  will  further  is,  that  the  support  and 
allowance  annually  made  to  students  thus  selected  and  continued 
be  the  same,  and  regulated  in  the  same  manner,  with  the  support 
and  allowance  herein  before  prescribed  for  students  on  this  my 
Foundation;  and  moreover,  that  such  selected  students  be  per- 
mitted to  preach  on  hire  one  third  part  of  each  year  in  which 
they  may  be  thus  continued;  and  that  the  attendance  of  said 
selected  students  on  the  Lectures  of  the  said  Professors  be 
optional." 

Explanatory  Note,  by  the  Faculty,  to  Chap.  V.21 

"  By  the  term  preaching  the  Faculty  understand  the  Laws  to 
mean  such  a  delivery  of  a  discourse,  with  or  without  notes,  in  the 
pulpit  or  elsewhere,  as  is  commonly  expected  from  a  duly  author- 


318       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

ized  preacher  of  the  gospel;  or  such  as  will  be  likely  to  make  on 
the  hearers  the  impression,  that  he  who  delivers  it,  is  an  author- 
ized, religious  teacher  or  minister. 

"  The  man  who  conducts  the  worship  of  an  assembly,  essen- 
tially as  is  customary  in  the  exercises  of  a  regular  minister,  es- 
pecially if  he  speaks  from  a  passage  of  Scripture,  and  closes  with 
a  benediction,  will  be  understood,  to  appear  before  that  assembly 
in  the  sacred  office,  and  will  make  the  impression  that  he  is  au- 
thorized to  preach;  which  ought  not  be  done  by  any  one  who  has 
not  been  regularly  licensed  as  a  public  preacher.  Students  not 
thus  licensed,  ought  uniformly  to  decline  to  enter  the  pulpit  at 
regular  seasons  of  worship,  unless  it  be  simply  to  perform  the  exer- 
cises appropriately  styled  devotional,  or,  in  addition  to  this,  to 
read  a  printed  sermon.  And  in  occasional  religious  meetings,  they 
ought  to  make  only  such  addresses  as  are  expected  at  such  meet- 
ings from  pious  and  intelligent  laymen." 


AMENDMENTS  AS  PER  LAWS  PUBLISHED  IN  1837. 

1  Sect.  II.,  Chap.  I.,  word  "examination"  changed  to  "matriculation." 

2  Sect.  III.,  Chap.  I.,  omit  following  words,  "and  in  the  Hebrew  Grammar, 
and  such  portions  of  the  Hebrew  Scriptures  as  shall  from  time  to  time  be  re- 
quired to  be  studied  previously  to  admission." 

3  Sect.  III.,  Chap.  II.,  "nine"  changed  to  "eight." 

4  Sect.  XIII.,  Chap.  III.,  "senior"  omitted,  "senior  Professor"  omitted, 
and  the  following  inserted,   "such  Professor  as  may  be  designated  by  the 
Trustees." 

6  Sect.  XII.,  Chap.  IV.,  following  words  added,  "and  no  society  shall  be 
formed  or  continued  among  the  members  of  the  Seminary,  without  the  appro- 
bation of  the  Faculty." 

6  Sect.  IX.,  Chap.  V.,  the  following  words  inserted  after  the  word  "ser- 
mons," "unless  he  shall  make  reasonable  and  immediate  satisfaction,"  also, 
tifter  the  word  "  Trustees,"  "  at  or  before  the  next  meeting." 

i  Numbers  of  Sections,  from  II.  onwards,  Chap.  VI.,  changed.  The  follow- 
ing new  Sect.  II.  inserted,—"  To  be  entitled  to  maintenance  on  the  above 
Foundation,  Licentiates  shall  reside  at  the  Seminary  eight  calendar  months  in 
a  year;  allowing  for  absence  over  the  Sabbath  to  preach,  as  much  as  is  per- 
mitted by  the  Statutes  of  the  Founders." 

Sect.  II.  of  Laws  of  1827  changed  to  Sect.  III.  in  Laws  of  1837. 

8  Sect.  HE.  of  the  Laws  of  1827  omitted,  and  the  following  new  sections 
substituted  therefor : — 

"III.  Other  students  who  have  honorably  passed  a  regular  course  of 
theological  study  may  also  be  permitted,  by  the  Faculty,  to  reside  at  the  Semi- 


LAWS    OF    THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINAKY.  319 


nary,  with  the  privilege  of  having  access  to  the  Library,  and  to  the  instruc- 
tions of  the  officers,  and  to  other  exercises  of  the  Institution. 

"IV.  In  special  cases,  persons  of  reputed  piety,  and  promising  talents 
and  acquirements,  who  have  not  passed  through  a  regular  course  of  Theolog- 
ical study,  and  have  the  ministry  or  missionary  service  in  view,  may  be  per- 
mitted by  the  Faculty,  with  the  approbation  of  the  Committee  of  Exigencies, 
to  enjoy  the  privilege  of  Resident  Licentiates,  not  on  the  Abbot  Foundation. 

"V.  Persons  thus  connected  with  the  Seminary  shall  be  under  the  special 
charge  of  the  President,  and,  when  in  town,  will  be  expected,  in  ordinary  cir- 
cumstances, to  attend  the  devotional  exercises  of  the  Seminary;  and  those  on 
the  Abbot  Foundation  shall  pursue  such  studies  as  shall  be  prescribed  by  the 
Faculty,  and  shall  report  to  the  President  at  the  close  of  the  year  how  much 
they  have  been  absent,  and  how  much  they  have  preached  on  hire. 

"  VI.  Resident  Licentiates  shall  be  liable  to  a  suspension  of  their  privileges 
for  negligence  or  misbehavior,  according  to  the  judgment  of  the  Faculty." 

8  Sect.  III.  of  Chap.  VII.  omitted,  and  the  following  substituted  therefor, 
"Morning  and  evening  prayers  shall  be  attended  at  such  hours  as  the  Fac- 
ulty shall  prescribe." 

1°  Sect.  IV.,  Chap.  VIIL,  "shall"  changed  to  "may." 

»  Sect.  IV.,  Chap.  VIIL,  all  after  "they  shall  judge  expedient"  omitted, 
and  the  following  substituted  therefor,  "  This  Committee  shall  conduct  the  ex- 
amination in  the  presence  oi  tne  Faculty,  employing  as  the  Committee  shall 
deem  proper,  the  agency  of  the  Instructors." 

12  Sect.  V.,  Chap.  XL,  after  "marked  by,"  "the  Librarian  with  the  con- 
sent of  the  Committee  on  the  Library,"  "and  no  one"  instead  of  "  a  Com- 
mittee for  this  purpose  appointed,  no  one  of  which,"  etc. 

13  Sect.  VI.,  Chap.  XL,  instead  of  "this  chapter"  say  "these  laws." 

'«  Sect.  VII.,  Chap.  XL,  instead  of  "a  Committee  appointed  by  the  Trus- 
tees," say  "  the  Faculty." 

15  Sect.  VIIL,  Chap.  XL,  instead  of  "be  loaned,"  say  "taken  from  the 
Library";  also  third  line  omit  "note  the"  to  word  "also"  in  the  next  sen- 
tence; also,  seventh  line  of  same  section  after  word  "signed"  insert  "each  time," 
also,  seventh  line  after  word  "borrower  "  insert  "nor  shall  any  book  be  deliv- 
ered, but  to  the  borrower  in  person,  except  that  a,"  and  omit  in  Laws  of  1827 
"but  a  Founder,"  also,  ninth  line  omit  "of  Phillips  Academy,"  also  last  sen- 
tence of  same  section  omitted. 

16  Sect.  IX.,  Chap.  XL,  third  line  "and  Academy"  omitted,  also  same 
section  third  line,   "receipt"  changed  to  '  return,"  also  next  line  after  the 
word  "times"  insert  "during  all  Library  hours." 

'7  Instead  of  Sections  X.,  XL,  XII.,  XIII. ,  insert  the  following  sections:— 
"X.  The  Library  shall  be  opened  for  the  purposes  of  reading  and  consul- 
tation every  day  (except  Sundays  and  other  special  days)  during  term  time,  at 
one  o'clock  in  the  afternoon;  *  and  continue  open  at  least  one  and  a  half  hours 
during  the  winter  term  and  two  hours  during  the  summer  term,  except  when 
this  will  interfere  with  other  standing  exercises  of  the  Seminary.  The  stated 
times  for  loaning  books  shall  be  on  Tuesdays  and  Fridays,  at  such  times  dur- 
ing Library  hours  as  the  Librarian  may  appoint. 

"XI.  No  person  except  a  Visitor,  Trustee,  the  President,  a  Professor,  or 
other  Instructor  in  the  Seminary  shall  have  on  loan  at  one  time  more  than 
four  books;  unless  upon  a  general  order  from  the  Faculty  signed  by  the  Presi- 
dent, by  which  he  may  be  authorized  to  borrow  to  the  amount  of  eight  books 
*  See  Amendment  •>,  page  322. 


320       HISTORY  OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

in  all.  In  special  cases  also  the  Librarian,  with  the  written  consent  of  the  Presi- 
dent, may  loan  extra  books  for  a  specific  time  and  purpose.  Nor  shall  any 
student  or  resident  Licentiate  retain  any  book  longer  than  four  weeks  from 
the  time  it  was  loaned,  without  a  like  order  from  the  Faculty.  The  Librarian 
may  also,  at  his  discretion,  require  that  any  book  shall  be  covered  by  the 
person  borrowing  it. 

"XII.  No  book  borrowed  from  the  Library  by  a  student  or  Resident  Li- 
centiate shall  be  carried  out  of  town;  nor  shall  this  be  done  by  any  other  per- 
son, except  with  the  express  knowledge  and  assent  of  the  Librarian.  At  the 
close  of  each  term  and  not  later  than  the  last  Saturday  of  the  term,  all  books, 
by  whomsoever  borrowed,  shall  be  punctually  returned,  for  the  purpose  of  a 
careful  inspection  of  the  whole  Library.  It  is  also  expected  that  every  person 
who  borrows  books  from  the  Library,  will  in  all  cases  return  them  so  soon  as 
he  shall  have  ceased  to  use  them. 

"XIII.  Every  person  who  borrows  books  from  the  Library  shall  be  held 
personally  responsible  for  them.  If  a  book,  while  loaned  to  any  person,  be 
injured  or  defaced  by  writing,  or  marking  in  it,  or  in  any  other  way,  the  bor- 
rower shall  make  reasonable  compensation  therefor,  to  the  satisfaction  of  the 
Librarian  and  the  Committee  on  the  Library,  or  he  shall  furnish  a  similar 
volume.  If  any  person  detain  a  book  beyond  the  time  limited  by  law,  he  shall 
pay  to  the  Librarian  a  fine  of  six  and  one  quarter  cents  a  volume  for  every  half 
week  that  it  is  so  detained;  and  if  any  person  neglect  to  cover  a  book  when 
required  by  the  Librarian  he  shall  pay  a  like  fine,  nor  shall  he  borrow  any 
other  book  until  he  shall  have  returned  every  such  volume,  and  paid  all  fines. 
If  any  person  shall  lose  a  book  belonging  to  the  Library,  he  shall  furnish  a 
similar  volume;  or  in  default  of  this,  pay  its  full  value;  and  if  it  belong  to  a  set, 
he  may,  if  the  Librarian  think  proper,  be  required  to  take  the  remaining  vol- 
umes, and  replace  or  pay  for  the  whole  set." 

18  Sect.  VI.,  Chap.  XII. ,  omitted,  and  the  following  substituted  therefor, — 
"A  blessing  shall  be  asked,  and  thanks  rendered  in  the  Hall  at  each  meal; 
which  duty  shall  be  performed  in  such  a  manner  as  the  President  shall 
direct." 

'a  Sect.  VIH.  of  Chap.  XII. ,  last  sentence  omitted. 

20  Sect.  I.  of  Chap.  XIII.  omitted,  and  the  following  substituted  therefor, — 
"There  shall  be  two  vacations  in  each  year;  the  first  of  seven  weeks  from  the 
Thursday  following  the  first  Wednesday  in  September;  and  the  second  of  five 
weeks  from  the  Wednesday  preceding  the  last  Wednesday  in  April. 

21  Explanatory  note  by  the  Faculty  to  Chap.  V.  omitted,  and  the  following 
substituted  therefor:— 

"  By  the  term  preaching,  the  Faculty  understand  the  Laws  to  mean  such  a 
delivery  of  a  discourse,  with,  or  without  notes,  in  the  pulpit  or  elsewhere,  as 
is  commonly  expected  from  an  authorized  preacher  of  the  Gospel,  or  such  as 
will  be  likely  to  make  the  impression  on  the  hearers,  that  he  who  delivers  it, 
is  an  authorized  religious  teacher  or  minister. 

"The  man  who  conducts  the  worship  of  an  assembly  as  is  customary  in  the 
exercises  of  a  regular  minister,  especially  if  he  speaks  from  a  passage  of  Script- 
ure and  closes  with  a  benediction,  will  be  understood  to  appear  before  that 
assembly  in  the  sacred  office,  and  will  make  the  impression  that  he  is  author- 
ized to  preach :  which  ought  not  to  be  done  by  any  one  not  regularly  licensed  as  a 
public  preacher.  In  regard  to  other  public  religious  exercises  of  students, 
which  may  approximate  more  or  less  to  preaching,  but  which  are  not  particularly 
noticed  in  the  Laws,  and  concerning  which  conscientious  students  have  often 


LAWS    OF    THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY.  321 

been  in  doubt  how  far  they  may  properly  go ;  the  judgment  of  the  Faculty  is 
expressed  in  the  following  particulars. 

"  1st,  In  occasional  religious  meetings,  students  not  regularly  licensed  ought 
to  make  only  such  addresses  as  are  expected  at  such  meetings  from  pious  and 
intelligent  laymen. 

"2d,  That  at  all  seasons  of  regular  public  worship,  whether  on  the  Sabbath 
or  at  other  times,  when,  according  to  common  usage,  a  sermon  would  make 
a  part  of  the  services,  those  who  are  not  authorized  preachers  ought  to  de- 
cline taking  the  lead  in  public  worship,  unless  it  be  simply  to  perform 
the  exercises  appropriately  styled  devotional,  or  in  addition  to  this,  to  read 
a  printed  sermon. 

"  3d,  It  will  not  be  deemed  an  irregularity  for  a  student,  whether  licensed 
as  a  preacher  or  not,  to  speak,  in  behalf  of  religious  or  charitable  associations, 
to  a  public  assembly,  in  such  a  manner  as  will  be  commonly  understood  to  be, 
not  a  sermon,  but  an  address,  strictly  appropriate  and  special.  Provided, 
however,  that  no  student,  in  term  time,  shall  make  such  an  address  in  any 
other  of  the  religious  exercises  above  mentioned,  without  the  express  permis- 
sion of  the  President,  previously  obtained,  and  without  regulating  the  per- 
formance according  to  his  directions. 

"4th,  If  any  unlicensed  student,  acting  as  an  agent  of  a  religious  or  char- 
itable society,  should  be  called  upon  in  time  of  vacation,  to  make  an  address  on 
the  subject  of  his  agency,  at  the  usual  time  of  preaching,  it  should  be  done 
without  a  text,  longer  or  shorter,  and  with  notice  to  the  assembly,  given  at  the 
time,  that  he  does  not  address  them  as  a  preacher." 


AMENDMENTS  AS  PER  LAWS  PUBLISHED  IN  1846. 

•  Laws  of  1827  and  1837,  Sect.  VI.,  Chap.  I.,  fifteenth  line  of  section,  omit 
"prevented  by  some  unforeseen  and  unavoidable  necessity,"  and  substitute 
therefor,  the  following  words,  "in  the  judgment  of  the  Faculty,  and  a  Com- 
mittee of  the  Trustees,  either  necessarily  prevented,  or  called  in  Providence  to 
take  a  different  course." 

i>  Sect.  XIII.,  Chap.  III.,  fifteenth  line  from  beginning  of  section,  Laws 
of  1846  omit  "  and  to  board  out  of  Commons." 

c  Sect.  I.,  Chap.  IV.,  add  the  following  words  "or  by  a  dismission  to  some 
other  Seminary,  to  be  given  by  the  Faculty." 

<J  Sect.  II.,  Chap.  IV.,  fifth  line,  omit  the  words  "the  President,"  etc., 
to  the  end  of  sentence,  and  substitute  therefor,  "the  Professor  who  has  the 
charge  of  his  class,  or  in  the  absence  of  that  Professor,  from  the  President." 

«  Sect.  IX.,  Chap.  IV.,  second  line  of  section,  "some  member,"  to  end  of 
sentence  omitted,  and  the  following  substituted  therefor,  "by  some  person 
appointed  for  the  purpose." 

f  Sect.  XL,  Chap.  IV.,  second  line  in  section,  omit  word  "shall,"  and  sub- 
stitute "is  expected  to." 

K  Sect.  XIII.,  Chap.  IV.,  second  line,  omit  "the  term  of  three  years' 
residence. " 

«>  Sect.  XIEL,  Chap.  IV.,  fifth  line,  omit  "how  long  he  has  been  connected 
with  the  Seminary,"  and  insert  "this  fact  and." 


322       HISTORY. OF  ANDOVER   THEOLOGICAL   SEMINARY. 

1  Sect.  II.,  Chap.  V.,  omit  sixth  line,  "a  certificate  stating  that  after  due 
examination  by  the  Faculty  he  has." 

J  Sect.  V.,  Chap.  V.,  fourth  line,  omit  "how  long  he  has  been  connected 
with  the  Seminary  and  attended  to  the  studies  prescribed  by  the  laws  of  the 
Institution,"  and  substitute  therefor,  "the  class  to  which  he  belongs." 

fc  Sect.  VII.,  Chap.  V.,  tenth  line,  omit  "distance  of  twenty  five  miles," 
and  substitute  therefor,  "the  prescribed  distance."  Also  in  same  section, 
twelfth  line,  omit  "to  commence,"  etc.,  to  end  of  section,  and  substitute 
therefor,  "  to  be  absent  from  the  Seminary  more  than  six  weeks  in  term  time 
for  the  purpose  of  preaching;  and  that  in  the  course  of  his  last  term." 

i  Sect.  II.,  Chap.  VIII,  fifth  line,  omit  "the  several  classes,"  and  sub- 
stitute therefor,  "  the  Middle  and  Junior  classes." 

m  Sects.  IV.  and  V.,  Chap.  VIII.,  omitted,  and  the  following  substituted 
therefor, 

"IV.  The  Committee  of  Examination  shall  consist  of  one  of  the  Visitors 
to  be  designated  by  that  Board,  three  Trustees  to  be  designated  by  the  Board 
of  Trustees,  and  two  clergymen  of  the  vicinity  to  be  selected  by  the  Faculty; 
and  the  Clerk  of  the  Board  of  Trustees,  on  receiving  information  of  their  ap- 
pointment shall  give  seasonable  notice  to  the  individuals  selected,  of  their 
appointment,  and  of  the  time  and  place  of  holding  the  examination.  At  the 
close  of  each  of  said  examinations,  the  Examining  Committee  shall  report  in 
writing  the  results  of  such  examinations,  signed  by  the  attending  members, 
and  shall  transmit  their  reports  to  the  respective  Boards,  prior  to  their  next 
annual  meetings.  Members  of  examining  committees  from  abroad  shall  be 
entitled  to  receive  the  amount  of  their  travelling  expenses  from  the  Treasurer." 

n  Sect.  V.,  Chap.  XL,  sixth  line  from  beginning  of  section,  "by  a  Commit- 
tee," etc.,  to  the  end  of  the  section  omitted,  and  the  following  substituted 
therefor,  "by  the  Librarian,  with  the  consent  of  the  Committee  on  the  Li- 
brary; and  no  one  of  them  shall  be  loaned  without  special  permission." 

0  Sect.  VIII.,  Chap.  XL,  line  seventh,  omit  "which  record  shall  be  signed 
each  time  by  the  borrower,"  also  omit  "and  subscribing  the  record  in  his  be- 
half," and  to  the  end  of  the  section. 

p  Sect.  X.,  Chap.  XL,  second  line,  Laws  of  1837,  omit  the  following  "every 
day  (except  Sundays  and  other  special  days)  during  term  time,  at  one  o'clock 
in  the  afternoon,"  and  insert  therefor,  "  at  such  times  as  the  Committee  of 
Exigencies  shall  direct." 

<J  Chapter  XII.  of  1827  and  1837  omitted  in  Laws  of  1846,  and  the  following 
substituted  therefor, — 

"I.  There  shall  be  annually  appointed  by  the  Committee  of  Exigencies 
an  overseer  or  agent,  to  be  approved  by  the  Trustees,  and  his  compensation 
to  be  fixed  by  them,  whose  duty  it  shall  be  to  have  the  care  of  the  public  build- 
ings and  grounds;  to  see  that  they  are  preserved  from  injury  and  kept  in  proper 
repair,  agreeable  to  such  directions  as  he  may  from  time  to  time  receive  from 
the  Trustees,  or  Committee  aforesaid. 

"II.  The  Agent  shall  have  the  care  of  the  Chapel,  and  see  to  the  ringing 
and  tolling  of  the  bell  on  the  Sabbath,  and  for  morning  and  evening  prayers, 
and  at  such  other  times  as  the  Committee  may  direct. 

"III.  The  Agent  shall  cause  all  the  rooms  occupied  by  students  and  Resi- 
dent Licentiates  in  the  Halls  of  the  Institution,  and  the  entries  of  said  Halls, 
to  be  cleanly  swept  twice  a  week,  and  their  beds  to  be  made  every  day.  He 
shall  also  take  care  that  their  bed-linen  and  clothes,  be  well  washed,  mended 
and  ironed,  as  often  as  is  necessary.  Under  the  direction  pf  the  Committee 


\ 


LAWS    OF    THE    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY.  3 

he  shall  attend  to  all  repairs  necessary  in  students'  rooms,  and  see  that  t^, 
furniture  in  them  is  preserved  from  injury. 

"  IV.  It  shall  be  the  duty  of  said  Agent  to  perform  any  other  services  under 
the  direction  of  the  Committee,  which  the  interests  of  the  Institution  may 
require. 

"V.  It  shall  be  the  duty  of  every  student  or  Resident  Licentiate,  forthwith 
to  repair  any  window-glass  which  he  may  break;  to  repair  or  to  replace  any 
furniture  which  may  be  broken  or  injured  in  the  room  occupied  by  him,  and 
to  make  good  any  damage  he  may  do  to  the  buildings  or  other  property  of  the 
Institution.  The  Agent  shall  see  to  the  execution  of  this  regulation." 

r  Sect.  I.  of  Chap.  XIII.,  after  word  Second  omitted  and  the  following  sub- 
stituted therefor,  "immediately  preceding  the  last  Wednesday  in  May."  f 


IX. 


FORMATION    OF    THE    ASSOCIATE    CREED    AND    ITS    ADDITION    TO    TH 
SHORTER    CATECHISM   AS    A    CONFESSION    OF    FAITH. 

The  Confession  of  Faith  appointed  for  the  Professors  in 
Seminary,  was  evidently  considered  by  the  Founders  to 
of  higher  importance  than  any  other  provision  of  their  C 
stitution  and  Statutes.     And  viewing  it  in  connection  \ 
the  circumstances  in  which  it  was  formed,  and  the  var 
questions  to  which  it  naturally  gives  rise,  I  am  satisfied 
it  calls  for  remarks  and  explanations  of  considerable  extent, 
those  remarks  and  explanations  will  be  introduced  in 
place. 

Any  one  who  attentively  reads  the  Constitution  and 
utes    of    the    Seminary,    cannot    but    notice    the    folio i 
facts — 

First  In  the  Constitution  of  the  Seminary,  which  wai? 
cuted  by  the  Founders,  Samuel  Abbot,  Phoebe  Phillips,  and 
Phillips,  Aug.  31, 1807,  and  accepted  by  the  Trustees  of  Ph 
Academy,  Sep.  2,  1807,  the  Assembly's  Shorter  Catechif 
appointed  to  be  the  standard,  to  which  the  faith  and  i 
structions  of  all  the  Professors  are  to  be  conformed.1 

Second.  The   Statutes   of  the  Associate   Donors,   '. 
>  See  Articles  llth,  12th,  and  13th  of  the  C. **- ^^ 


4      HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY. 

,rown,  Bartlett  and  Norris,  who  were  founders  of  Professor 
ships,  executed  March  21,  1808,  and  accepted  by  the  Trustees, 
May  10,  1808,  contain  what  is  called  the  Associate  Creed, 
which  was  appointed  by  the  Associate  Donors  to  be  the  Creed 
of  the  Associate  Professors.1 

Third.  The  Additional   Statutes  of  the  Founders  of  the 

Sei  inary,  which  make  a  part  of  their  Constitution,  and  by 

which  a  union  was  formed  between  them  and  the  Associate 

Founders  of  Professorships, — executed  May  3d — and  accepted 

by-lie  Trustees,  May  10,  1808,  joined  the  Associate  Creed 

he  Catechism,  and  required  that  the  two  symbols,  thus 

ed,  should  be  the  standard,  of  the  faith  and  of  the  instruc- 

i  of  every  person  appointed  or  elected  a  Professor  in  the 

linary.2 

Now  those  who  are  not  particularly  acquainted  with  the 

umstances  of  the  case,  will  naturally  desire  an  explana- 

of  the  facts  above  mentioned.     Such  an  explanation  is  in 

;  given  in  Chapter  VI.  of  my  historical  sketch.     But  I 

>ose  to  add  a  particular  account  of  the  manner  in  which 

Associate  Creed  was  formed,  and  to  show  how  and  why 

ime  to  be  added  to  the  Catechism,  as  set  forth  in   the 

itional  Statutes. 

the  more  readily  undertake  this  work,  because  I  was 
the  first  continually  conversant  with  all  the  Associate 
>rs,  and  was  called  to  act  a  part  with  them,  and  with 
pring,  their  principal  agent,  and  especially  because  by 
rdering  of  Divine  Providence  I  alone  am  left  to  tell  the 
of  their  doings  from  the  beginning  in  relation  to  this 
vution. 

uring  the  first  five  months  of  1807  Dr.  Pearson  had  fre- 

-,  interviews  with  Dr.  Spring  and  the  Associate  Donors 

e  purpose  of  inducing  them  to  unite  with  the  Andover 

ers,  and  he  secured  their  esteem  and  confidence  to  such 

?e,  that  they  at  length  deemed  it  expedient  to  request 

give  his  assistance  in  framing  a  Constitution,  and  in 

^•ociaie..§tatutes,  Art.  2.          2  Additional  Statutes,  Art.  1. 


FORMATION    OF    THE    ASSOCIATE    CREED.  325 

completing-  a  Creed  already  begun  for  their  Divinity  School 
in  West  Newbury. 

But  what  reason  was  there  to  expect  that  two  men  so 
different  in  their  habits  of  thinking  as  Dr.  Spring  and 
Dr.  Pearson  would  ever  come  to  an  agreement  in  framing 
a  Theological  Creed?  How  could  Dr.  Spring,  who  was  a 
strict  and  conscientious  Hopkinsian,  harmonize  with  Dr. 
Pearson,  who  was  no  more  than  a  Calvinist?  I  reply,  that 
it  is  generally  easy  for  men  to  come  to  an  agreement  when 
they  sincerely  desire  it  and  are  governed  by  Christian 
motives.  Dr.  Spring  was  indeed  a  strict  and  conscientious 
Hopkinsian,  but  he  was  also  a  strict  and  conscientious  Chris- 
tian, and  a  man  of  remarkable  wisdom  and  nobleness  of  dis- 
position. And  as  he  intended  that  the  Divinity  School 
should  be  so  planned  as  to  meet  the  approbation  of  the 
orthodox  community  generally,  both  in  New  England  and 
out  of  New  England,  and  as  he  knew  that  Messrs.  Brown 
and  Bartlett  inclined  towards  a  union  with  the  Founders 
in  Andover,  he  was  very  pliable  and  conciliating  in  regard 
to  everything  of  secondary  consequence,  particularly  in  re- 
gard to  phraseology.  This  candid,  yielding  spirit  of  Dr. 
Spring  was  met  by  a  similar  spirit  in  Dr.  Pearson  who,  not- 
withstanding his  proverbial  firmness  and  inflexibility,  was 
ready,  in  various  instances,  to  sacrifice  his  own  preferences 
out  of  respect  for  Dr.  Spring.  It  would  not  be  difficult  for 
any  man  well  acquainted  with  the  peculiar  characteristics 
of  those  two  men,  and  with  the  circumstances  which  brought 
them  to  act  together  in  this  momentous  concern,  to  discover 
things  here  and  there  in  the  structure,  particularly  in  the  phra- 
seology of  the  Creed  itself,  which  clearly  indicates  the  mutual 
exercise  of  a  forbearing  and  conciliatory  disposition. 

This  Creed  as  it  was  actually  prepared,  constitutes  an 
essential  part  of  the  Associate  Statutes;  and  every  article 
of  it  was  to  remain  unaltered  forever.  If  the  seven  years' 
experiment  had  not  resulted  in  the  confirmation  of  the  union, 
and  if  the  Founders  and  Visitors  had  determined  to  withdraw 


326    .  HISTQRY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

their  funds  from  the  Andover  Seminary,  and  to  establish  a 
separate  School,  this  same  identical  Creed  would  have  been 
the  perpetual  Creed  of  every  Professor  in  that  West  Newbury 
School.  How  evident  then  it  is  that  the  Associate  Creed 
contains  what  the  Founders  wished  it  to  contain  and  all  they 
wished  it  to  contain  irrespective  of  any  prospect  of  a  con- 
nection with  the  Andover  Founders. 

Subsequent  events  evinced  that  the  Creed  truly  answered 
the  above  mentioned  design  of  those  who  composed  it,  and 
of  those  who  approved  it  as  their  doctrinal  standard.  It  was 
subsequently  found  to  be  satisfactory  to  the  Andover  Founders, 
who  had  previously  and  unalterably  appointed  the  Shorter 
Catechism  as  the  standard  of  doctrine  in  their  Seminary.  It 
met  the  views  of  the  great  body  of  the  Orthodox.  It  harmo- 
nized with  the  Confessions  of  Faith  of  the  Reformed  Churches 
in  Europe.  It  was  approved  by  such  men  as  Dr.  Dwight, 
Gov.  Strong  and  Others  like  them,  who  were  appointed  to 
be  Visitors  in  the  Institution.  It  is  then  evident  that  the 
Creed  was  happily  suited  to  the  noble  object  of  the  Asso- 
ciate Founders ! 

And  what  I  have  particularly  intended  to  maintain  is,  that 
all  the  doctrines  laid  down  in  the  Associate  Creed  are  doctrines  of 
Calvinism. 

It  is  indeed  true,  that  some  articles  in  the  Creed  were 
called  Hopkinsian, — either  because  Hopkinsian  ministers  had 
made  them  very  prominent,  or  because  those  articles  were  not 
expressed  exactly  in  the  common  Calvinistic  phraseology,  but 
were  expressed  more  or  less  in  the  language  which  had  become 
current  among  Hopkinsians.  But  it  is  a  fact,  that  the  very 
doctrines  set  forth  in  those  articles  are  found  in  the  creeds 
and  writings  of  Calvinists.  Look  at  those  articles  which 
approximate  most  nearly  to  the  phraseology  that  was  com- 
mon among  Hopkinsians;  for  example,  the  articles  respecting 
human  ability  and  inability.  Dr.  Spring  and  others  were  ac- 
customed to  say,  that  sinners  possessed  a  complete  natural 
ability  to  obey  the  Divine  commands,  but  are  under  a  total 


FORMATION    OF    THE    ASSOCIATE    CREED.  327 

moral  inability.  Now  this  statement  of  the  subject  was  not 
introduced  into  the  Creed,  nor  does  the  Creed  use  the  exact 
phraseology  in  which  the  Hopkinsian  Doctrine  is  expressed 
by  Hannah  Adams;  namely:  "that  the  impotency  of  sinners 
with  respect  to  believing  in  Christ  is  not  natural,  but  moral." 
For  the  sake  of  avoiding  offence,  Dr.  Spring  consented  to 
give  up  such  forms  of  expression  and  was  satisfied  with  the 
following  article  which  he  himself  prepared, — "  that  man  has 
understanding  and  coporeal  strength  to  do  all  that  God  re- 
quires of  him,  so  that  nothing  but  the  sinner's  aversion  to 
holiness  prevents  his  salvation."  In  a  different  place  in  the 
Creed  the  other  view  of  the  subject  is  stated, — "that  man  is 
morally  incapable  of  recovering  the  image  of  God  which  was 
lost  in  Adarfy"  This  two-fold  view  of  the  subject  is  clearly 
stated  by  Edwards,  who  points  out  the  difference  between 
that  inability,  called  natural,  which  would  take  away  all  obli- 
gation to  obey,  and  that  which  arises  from  moral  causes,  and 
renders  the  sinner  without  excuse.  The  Synod  of  Dort  main- 
tained substantially  the  same  doctrine, — "  Man  by  the  fall  did 
not  cease  to  be  a  creature  endued  with  understanding  and  will ; 
nor  did  sin,  which  pervaded  the  whole  race  of  mankind,  de- 
prive them  of  human  nature."  Many  Calvinistic  divines  have 
taught  and  illustrated  all  that  the  Associate  Creed  contains 
on  this  subject. 

Hopkinsians  insisted  much  upon  the  doctrine,  that  all  the 
moral  actions  of  the  unregenerate  are  sinful;  and  this  doctrine 
is  distinctly  affirmed  in  the  Associate  Creed.  But  the  doc- 
trine is  not  peculiar  to  Hopkinsians,  but  has  been  held  by  all 
consistent  Calvinists.  It  is  thus  expressed  in  the  Westminster 
Confession  of  Faith, — "  that  works  done  by  unregenerate  men, 
though  for  the  matter  of  them  they  may  be  things  which  God 
commands,  and  are  of  good  use  both  to  themselves  and  others; 
yet  because  they  proceed  not  from  a  heart  purified  by  faith,  nor 
are  done  in  a  right  manner,  according  to  the  word,  nor  to  a  right 
end,  the  glory  of  God,  they  are  therefore  sinful,  and  cannot 
please  God,  nor  make  a  man  meet  to  receive  grace  from  God." 


328       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

On  the  subject  of  the  decrees  and  the  providence  of  God, 
the  Associate  Creed  lays  down  the  following  propositions, 
namely, — "That  God  according  to  the  counsel  of  his  own 
will,  and  for  his  own  glory,  hath  fore-ordained  whatsoever 
comes  to  pass;  and  that  all  beings,  actions,  and  events,  both 
in  the  natural  and  moral  world,  are  under  his  providential 
direction ;  that  God's  decrees  perfectly  consist  with  human 
liberty,  God's  universal  agency  with  the  agency  of  man,  and 
man's  dependence  with  his  accountability;  that  God  will  cause 
the  wrath  of  wicked  men  and  devils  to  praise  him,  and  that 
all  the  evil  which  has  existed  and  will  forever  exist  in  the 
moral  system,  will  eventually  be  made  to  promote  the  most 
important  purpose."  These  propositions,  which  are  strenu- 
ously maintained  by  Hopkinsians,  are  perfectly  harmonious 
with  the  Shorter  Catechism  and  the  Confession  of  Faith,  and 
with  the  writings  of  Calvin,  Bellamy,  and  our  Puritan  Fathers. 

What  is  called  the  "  Exercise  Scheme,"  in  opposition 
to  the  "  Taste  Scheme,"  though  it  constituted  a  part  of  the 
speculations  which  were  peculiar  to  Dr.  Emrnons,  Dr.  Spring, 
and  some  others,  it  was  not  asserted  in  the  Associate  Creed. 
Dr.  Spring  was  aware  that  the  orthodox  generally  dissented 
from  the  Exercise  Scheme.  He  found  Dr.  Pearson  strongly 
opposed  to  it.  And  he  knew  that  I  had  serious  doubts  re- 
specting it;  and  he  labored,  in  his  conversation  and  letters,  to 
convince  me  of  its  truth.1  The  result  was,  that  Dr.  Spring 
waived  the  subject,  and  was  satisfied  to  insert  in  the  Creed 
only  those  propositions  which  would  be  approved  by  the  great 
body  of  the  Orthodox. 

On  the  subject  of  Original  Sin,  the  doctrine  of  the  Creed 
is  as  follows, — "That  Adam  was  the  Federal  head  and  repre- 
sentative of  the  human  race  and  that  in  consequence  of  his 
disobedience  all  his  descendants  were  constituted  sinners; 
that  by  nature  every  man  is  personally  depraved,  destitute  of 
holiness,  unlike  and  opposed  to  God."  The  doctrine  so  un- 

'  See  Letters,  Aug.  1,  1807,  and  Feb.  10,  1810. 


FORMATION    OF    THE    ASSOCIATE    CREED.  329 

ambiguously  expressed  in  the  Creed  is  a  doctrine  of  Calvin 
and  his  followers. 

Dr.  Spring  held  that  all  holiness  consists  in  disinterested 
benevolence  and  all  sin  in  selfishness;  and  he  took  pains  in 
his  sermons  to  expose  the  worthlessness  of  a  religion  founded 
on  mere  self-love,  but  Dr.  Pearson  made  exceptions  to  his 
phraseology  on  this  subject  and  to  the  sentiment  which  it 
might  and  often  did  convey.  And  he  thought  that  the  doc- 
trine as  above  expressed  had  become  the  mark  of  a  sect.  Dr. 
Spring  at  length  proposed  an  article  which  was  satisfactory 
to  all,  namely:  "That  supreme  love  to  God  constitutes  the 
essential  difference  between  saints  and  sinners." 

The  Creed  contains  nothing  on  the  subject  of  repentance 
being  before  faith,  or  on  a  willingness  to  be  cast  off  for  the 
glory  of  God,  or  on  God's  positive  arid  direct  efficiency  in 
causing  sinful  exercises. 

I  have  thus  taken  pains,  perhaps  more  than  was  necessary, 
to  illustrate  and  confirm  the  position,  that  the  Associate  Creed 
as  finally  completed,  was  purely  Calvinistic,  and  was  of  course 
adapted  to  be  a  Confession  of  Faith  for  Professors,  who  were 
expressly  required  to  be  u  consistent  Calvinists,"  and  to  sub- 
scribe a  declaration  of  their  belief  in  the  doctrines  of  the 
Catechism. 

In  the  trial  of  Mrs.  Norris'  will  by  the  Supreme  Court,  the 
counsel  of  the  heirs  at  law,  argued,  among  other  things,  that 
the  Founders  of  the  Seminary  made  the  Catechism  the  stand- 
ard of  Faith  for  the  Professors,  and  that  the  Creed  of  the 
Associate  Founders,  being  Hopkinsian,  was  inconsistent  with 
that  standard  and  therefore  that  the  Trustees  had  done  wrong 
in  receiving  the  Associate  Foundation  and  could  have  no 
legal  claim  to  the  legacy  of  Mrs.  Norris.  Judge  Thatcher 
who  delivered  the  decision  of  the  Court,  stated  it  as  an  obvious 
fact  that  the  Assembly's  Shorter  Catechism,  was,  by  the  au- 
thority of  the  Founders,  made  the  standard  of  religious  in- 
struction in  the  Seminary.  And  he  also  maintained  that  the 
Associate  Creed,  although  different  in  phraseology,  being  fairly 


330       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

interpreted,  would  be  found  to  contain  nothing  inconsistent 
with  the  teachings  of  the  Catechism ;  and  therefore  that  the 
legacy  of  Mrs.  Norris,  which  was  given  to  the  Associate 
Foundation,  ought  of  right  to  belong  to  the  Trustees.1 

I  have  lately  found  that  in  1809  I  maintained  and  published 
the  very  same  opinion  with  that  which  was  expressed  by  Judge 
Thatcher  in  1815.  The  Keviewers  in  the  "  Anthology,"  a  Unita- 
rian Periodical,  made  an  attack  upon  the  Institution  which  had 
just  been  established  in  Andover,  and  represented  it  as  "  an  In- 
stitution which  would  have  disgraced  the  bigotry  of  the  dark 
ages."  They  say  that  the  Associate  Founders  had  a  different 
object  from  the  Original  Founders.  They  signify  that  the  "  Hop- 
kinsians  managed  most  adroitly,"  to  get  advantage  over  the 
Calvinists.  But  how  ?  Why  by  the  introduction  of  a  Creed, 
which,  they  say,  is  strictly  Hopkinsian.  In  a  Eeview  of  their 
Review,  Feb.  1809,  I  undertook  to  show  that  the  Creed,  which 
the  Associate  Founders  introduced,  though  often  called  Hop- 
kinsian, was  strictly  Calvinistic — that  it  recognizes  all  the 
peculiar  features  of  Calvinism  as  set  forth  by  the  Synod  of 
Dort,  and  as  stated  in  the  Confessions  of  Faith  and  Catechisms 
of  the  Reformed  Churches.  But  I  did  not  content  myself 
with  a  general  affirmation  of  this  fact;  but  descended  to 
particulars. 

Referring  to  the  summary  statement  of  Hopkinsian  doc- 
trines made  by  Hannah  Adams  in  her  "View  of  Religions,"  I 
expressly  undertook  to  show,  as  I  have  done  in  a  previous  chap- 
ter, "  that  all  the  particulars  of  that  summary,  so  far  as  they 
are  contained  in  the  Creed,  are  strictly  Calvinistic."2  And  this 
I  did  openly,  forty-four  years  ago,  when  there  was  no  appear- 
ance of  strife  between  Hopkinsians  and  Calvinists,  and  the 
great  controversy  which  remained  was  between  the  Orthodox, 
or  the  friends  of  the  Puritan  Theology,  and  the  Unitarians,  and 

1  See  reports  of  cases  determined  in  the  Supreme  Judicial  Court  of  Mass., 
vol.  1,  By  Dudley  Atkin  Tyng,  Esqr.,  for  NOT.  Term,  1815.     The  Trustees  of 
Phillips  Academy,  versus  James  King,  Executor  of  the  Will  of  Mary  Norris. 

2  See  Panoplist  for  Feb.  1809,  vol.  4. 


FORMATION    OF    THE    ASSOCIATE    CREED.  331 

I  did  it  with  the  full  approbation  of  all  the  Guardians  and 
friends  of  the  Seminary. 

That  the  Associate  Creed  was  understood  to  be  entirely 
consistent  with  the  Catechism  appears  from  the  fact,  that  the 
Founders  of  the  Institution,  in  order  to  satisfy  the  Associate 
Founders,  added  it  to  the  Catechism,  making  both  together 
the  Standard  of  Faith  for  all  the  Professors.  This  they  would 
not  have  done,  had  they  riot  been  fully  satisfied  that  the  Creed 
was  consistent  with  the  Catechism.  The  Trustees  by  accept- 
ing the  Associate  Foundation  expressed  their  opinion  that  the 
Associate  Creed  was  consistent  with  the  Catechism.  And  if 
the  Associate  Creed  had  contained  anything  inconsistent 
with  the  Catechism,  and  peculiar  to  Hopkinsians,  in  opposi- 
tion to  Calvinists,  how  could  such  men  as  Dr.  Dwight  and 
Gov.  Strong  have  expressed,  as  they  did,  their  cordial  appro- 
bation of  it?  and  how  could  it  have  been  so  generally  looked 
upon  with  satisfaction  by  Congregationalists  arid  Presbyte- 
rians, who  held  to  the  theology  of  Calvin  unconnected  with 
the  peculiarities  of  Hopkins  and  Emmons  ? 

That  the  Associate  Creed,  which  in  connection  with  the 
Catechism,  the  Founders  of  the  Seminary  appointed  as  the 
Creed  of  all  the  Professors,  contained  nothing  inconsistent 
with  the  common  Orthodox  Standards,  may  be  made  still 
more  evident  by  a  reference  to  the  public  exercises  at  the 
opening  of  the  Institution.  Dr.  Pearson,  who  was  not  only 
President  of  the  Board  of  Trustees,  but  a  Professor-elect,  and 
who  had  been  the  principal  agent  of  the  Founders  in  framing 
the  Constitution  and  had  acted  so  important  a  part  in  framing 
the  Associate  Statutes  and  Creed,  and  in  settling  the  terms 
of  the  union,  introduced  the  services  of  that  important  occa- 
sion by  a  brief  account  of  the  rise,  progress  and  object  of  the 
Institution.  In  this  "  Historical  Sketch,"  he  says — The  "  pri- 
mary object  of  the  Seminary  is  to  lay  such  a  foundation  of 
sacred  Literature  as  will  best  support  and  protect  the  super- 
structure of  gospel  truth  against  the  open  assaults  and  secret 
machinations  of  atheism,  infidelity  and  error, — Not  the  pecidi- 


332       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

arities  of  any  sect  or  party,  but  the  great  system  of  revealed  truth 
contained  in  the  Bible,  avowed  by  the  Reformers,  embraced  by  our 
Forefathers,  and  expressed  in  the  Assembly's  Catechism,  it  will 
be  the  duty  of  the  Professors  to  illustrate  and  maintain,  as 
must  be  evident  from  the  Creed  which  they  are  required  to  subscribe. 
And  surely  no  man  of  understanding  and  information  £an  with 
propriety  denominate  that  system  of  Christian  doctrine  sec- 
tarian which,  as  appears  from  the  Harmony  of  Confessions,  has 
been  received  and  professed  by  all  Protestant  churches  in 
Europe,  which  was  the  faith  of  the  first  settlers  of  this  country, 
and  is  still  the  faith  of  the  great  body  of  their  pious  descen- 
dants." u These  observations,"  he  said,  "are  not  made  to  cen- 
sure any,  who  on  some  points  may  think  differently  from  us, 
but  merely  to  exhibit  this  infant  Seminary  in  its  proper 
attitude  and  true  light,  and  to  guard  against  those  misap- 
prehensions and  fears,  which  it  is  natural  even  for  honest 
and  pious  minds  to  entertain  concerning  an  Institution  so 
novel  and  so  interesting." 

Such  were  the  observations  publicly  made  on  that  mo- 
mentous and  auspicious  Occasion,  in  order  to  show  clearly 
what  was  the  object  of  the  Institution  and  what  was  the 
theology  to  be  believed  and  taught  by  the  Professors.  It  was 
the  "great  system  of  revealed  truth  contained  in  the  Bible, 
avowed  by  the  Reformers,  embraced  by  our  Forefathers,  and 
expressed  in  the  Assembly's  Catechism." 

On  the  same  occasion  Dr.  D wight,  who  was  one  of  the 
Visitors  appointed  by  the  Founders  and  Donors  and  was 
acquainted  with  everything  pertaining  to  the  subject,  un- 
dertook expressly  in  his  inaugural  sermon  to  describe  the 
theology  to  be  taught  in  the  Seminary.  He  says,  "The 
doctrines  which  will  be  taught  here,  are  the  doctrines  of 
the  REFORMATION.  These  are  the  doctrines  generally  taught 
in  the  creeds,  catechisms,  and  confessions  of  almost  all 
Protestant  churches;  by  that  body  of  Christians,  to  whom  the 
title  of  orthodox  was  peculiarly  applied  both  by  themselves 
and  their  opposers.  They  are  the  doctrines  brought  with 


THE    UNITED    CONFESSION    OF    FAITH.  333 

them,  by  those  eminently  good  men,  who  converted   New 
England  from  a  desert  into  a  garden." 

The  above  statements,  first  of  Dr«  Pearson  and  then  of 
Dr.  D wight  respecting  the  theology  to  be  taught  in  the 
Seminary  were  made,  not  only  publicly,  but  officially,  in  the 
presence  of  the  Associate  Donors  and  the  Andover  Founders 
together  with  the  Trustees  and  Visitors,  who  unitedly  approved 
them  at  the  time,  and  ever  after, — the  principles  thus  publicly 
and  officially  announced  having  been  previously  considered 
and  settled  between  the  parties. 


X. 


WHETHER    THE    UNITED    CONFESSION    OF    FAITH    WAS    INTENDED    FOR    ALL 
THE    PROFESSORS. 

It  is  an  important  question,  and  one  which  has  been  fre- 
quently agitated,  whether  the  Assembly  s  Catechism  and  the 
Associate  Creed  united,  are  to  be  regarded,  as  constituting  the 
standard,  to  ivhich  the  faith  and  the  instructions  of  all  the  Pro- 
fessors are  to  be  conformed. 

I  shall  spare  no  pains  that  may  be  necessary  to  a  patient 
and  thorough  examination  of  the  subject;  and  shall  endeavor 
to  give  due  weight  to  every  consideration  which  can  have 
any  bearing  on  the  question  at  issue. 

No  man  who  takes  into  view  the  concern  which  I  had  in 
the  establishment  of  this  united  Institution,  and  my  labors 
in  it  for  almost  forty  years,  will  think  it  strange  that  I 
should  feel  an  uncommon  interest  in  its  welfare,  and  use 
great  freedom  of  speech  in  treating  the  present  subject.  In- 
deed how  could  I  gain  the  approbation  of  those  who  wish 
well  to  the  Seminary,  and  how  could  I  think  of  the  Seminary 
with  comfort  in  a  dying  hour,  if  I  should  cease  to  cherish 
a  sincere  and  faithful  affection  for  it,  or  should  withhold  any 


334       HISTORY  OF  ANDOVER   THEOLOGICAL   SEMINARY. 

thing  which  appears  to  me  important  to  its  permanent  pros- 
perity. As  to  any  questions  which  have  been,  or  may  be  de- 
bated, I  claim  the  right  to  give  my  opinion,  and  my  reason 
for  adopting  it.  It  is  a  right  which  belongs  to  every  man  in 
this  free  country.  I  am  confident  that  every  man  who  con- 
siders the  relations  in  which  I  have  stood  to  the  Seminary 
from  the  beginning  will  allow  that  the  right  belongs  in  some 
special  sense  to  me.  But  while  I  exercise  the  right  of  form- 
ing and  expressing  my  own  opinion  candidly  and  unreserv- 
edly, I  cheerfully  concede  the  same  right  to  others,  having 
no  wish  that  any  one  should  agree  to  my  statements  any 
farther  than  they  shall  be  found  conformed  to  the  truth. 

We  shall  be  able  to  reach  the  most  satisfactory  answer  to 
the  question  before  us,  by  taking  up  the  two  parts  of  the 
united  Confession  of  Faith  separately,  confining  ourselves 
wholly  and  exclusively  to  the  Constitution,  and  the  Associate 
Statutes. 

We  begin  then  with  the  Associate  Creed.  Is  this  in- 
tended for  the  Abbot  Professor  as  well  as  the  other  Pro- 
fessors? The  answer  has  uniformly  been  in  the  affirmative. 
But  on  what  grounds?  What  do  the  Associate  Founders, 
in  the  2d  Article  of  their  Statutes,  provide  ?  They  provide 
"  that  every  Professor  on  Hie  Associate  Foundation ''  shall  at  his 
inauguration  make  and  subscribe  a  declaration  of  his  belief 
in  the  doctrines  of  revelation,  as  expressed  in  the  Associate 
Creed.  And  in  the  3d  Article  they  say  that  "every  Pro- 
fessor on  the  Associate  Foundation "  shall  repeat  this  declara- 
tion every  five  years.  This  is  all  that  the  Associate  Statutes 
contain  on  the  subject;  and  the  provision,  it  is  seen,  relates 
only  to  the  Professors  on  the  Associate  Foundation.  The 
Associate  Founders  of  Professorships  legislated,  as  they  had 
an  undoubted  right  to  do,  for  the  Professors  on  their  Founda- 
tion. But  they  never  legislated,  and  they  had  no  right  to 
legislate,  for  the  ABBOT  Professor.  Of  course  there  is  nothing 
in  the  Associate  Statutes  which  makes  it  the  duty  of  the 
Abbot  Professor  to  subscribe  to  the  Associate  Creed. 


THE    UNITED    CONFESSION    OF    FAITH.  335 

Go  next  to  the  Original  Constitution  of  the  Seminary,  ex- 
ecuted Aug.  31,  1807,  the  year  previous  to  the  formation  of 
the  Associate  Statutes.  Here  the  Founders  of  the  Seminary 
legislated  for  all  the  professors  in  the  Seminary,  and  in  the 
exercise  of  their  just  right  provided  a  Confession  of  Faith  for 
every  one  of  them.  In  the  12th  Article  of  their  Constitution 
they  say  that  "  every  professor  in  the  Seminary "  shall  de- 
clare his  belief  in  the  doctrines  of  the  gospel  as  expressed  in 
the  Shorter  Catechism.  And  in  the  13th  Article  they  say 
that  he  shall  repeat  this  declaration  once  in  five  years.  The 
Founders  say  nothing  here  respecting  any  Creed  for  the 
Professors  except  the  Catechism.  So  far  then  as  the  pro- 
visions of  the  original  Constitution  of  the  Seminary  are  con- 
cerned the  Abbot  Professor  has  nothing  to  do  with  the 
Associate  Creed;  inasmuch  as  those  provisions  contain  not 
the  least  mention  of  any  Creed  except  the  Catechism. 

Thus  far  then  we  find  no  answer  to  the  inquiry,  on  what 
ground  the  Abbot  Professor  is  required  to  subscribe  to  the 
Associate  Creed.  The  Associate  Founders  of  Professorships 
made  that  Creed  binding,  as  we  have  seen,  on  the  Associate 
Professors  and  on  them  only.  So  that  we  can  get  no  answer 
to  the  question  how  the  Associate  Creed  came  to  be  binding 
on  the  Abbot  Professor  either  in  the  Associate  Statutes  or  in 
the  original  Constitution  of  Aug.  31,  1807. 

We  proceed  then  finally  to  the  Additional  Statutes,  which 
the  Founders  of  the  Institution  executed  May  3,  1808,  being 
their  last  act  as  Founders,  and  which  they  appointed  to  be 
taken  as  part  of  the  Constitution.  It  appears  from  the  pre- 
amble of  these  Additional  Statutes,  that  they  were  formed  by 
the  Founders  of  the  Seminary  for  the  sole  purpose  of  inducing 
the  Associate  Founders  of  Professorships  to  unite  with  them 
In  the  first  article  of  these  Additional  Statutes,  we  obtain 
the  desired  information.  Here  the  Founders  of  the  Institu- 
tion, in  the  exercise  of  their  reserved  right,  appoint  that  the 
Associate  Creed  shall  be  added  to  the  Catechism  and  that 
both  together  shall  be  subscribed  by  every  Professor  in  the 


336       HISTORY   OF   ANDOYER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

Seminary.  It  is  this  last  act  of  the  Founders  of  the  Institu- 
tion, and  this  alone,  which  makes  it  the  duty  of  the  Abbot 
Professor  to  subscribe  to  the  Associate  Creed.  Had  it  not 
been  for  this  act  of  the  Founders  in  May,  1808,  the  Catechism 
and  that  alone  would  have  formed  the  doctrinal  standard  of 
the  Abbot  Professor.  But  by  this  act  of  the  Founders  of  the 
Institution,  which  was  required  of  them  as  a  condition  of  the 
union,  the  standard  of  the  Abbot  Professor  was  enlarged,  by 
adding  the  Associate  Creed  to  the  Catechism. — I  have  been 
so  particular  here  in  order  to  show  exactly  how  the  Asso- 
ciate Qreed  was  brought  to  bear  upon  the  Abbot  Professor; 
while  according  to  the  Constitution  of  1807  the  Catechism 
alone  was  his  standard,  and  according  to  the  Associate 
Statutes  of  March  1,  1808,  the  Associate  Creed  was  intended 
for  the  Associate  Professors,  and  for  them  only. 

Secondly.  Having  shown  how  the  Associate  Creed  came 
to  be  a  constituent  part  of  the  doctrinal  standard  of  the  Abbot 
Professor  of  Christian  Theology,  I  shall  now  proceed  to  the 
other  part  of  the  subject,  and  inquire  whether  the  Catechism 
was  appointed  to  be  a  constituent  part  of  the  doctrinal  stand- 
ard of  the  Associate  Professors  as  well  as  the  Abbot  Professor. 

Now  in  looking  at  the  united  Institution,  as  it  was  finally 
agreed  upon  and  established,  we  are  not  to  regard  the  Asso- 
ciate Statutes  by  themselves;  for,  taken  by  themselves,  they 
were  not  the  basis  on  which  the  Andover  Seminary  rested, 
nor  did  they,  by  themselves,  constitute  the  rule  by  which  any 
of  its  affairs  were  to  be  administered.  The  Seminary  itself 
was,  as  we  have  seen,  founded  by  three  individuals  living  in 
Andover,  and  its  Constitution,  as  first  framed,  was  executed 
Aug.  31,  1807;  while  the  Associate  Statutes  were  executed 
the  following  year  by  three  other  individuals,  who  thereby 
founded  Professorships  in  the  Seminary  already  established 
in  Andover.  In  these  Statutes  they  appointed  a  Creed  for 
the  Professors  on  their  Foundation.  But  their  Professors  were 
to  be  Professors  in  the  Institution  at  Andover,  and  were  of 
course  to  come  under  its  Constitution,  and  were  expressly 


THE    UNITED    CONFESSION    OF    FAITH.  337 

required,  even  by  the  Associate  Statutes,  to  conform  to  its 
provisions.  It  must  always  be  kept  in  mind,  that  the  As- 
sociate Statutes  with  the  Associate  Funds  were  received  not 
to  supersede  any  provisions  of  the  Constitution,  but  as  an 
addition  to  them,  and  as  perfectly  harmonizing  with  them, 
and  as  leaving  those  provisions  unaltered  and  in  full  force, 
— though  admitting  of  additions  from  the  Founders  of  the 
Seminary.  The  Associate  Statutes  and  Funds  could  not  have 
been  received  on  any  other  principle.  The  Statutes  of  the 
Associate  Founders,  which  appointed  a  Creed  for  the  Associate 
Professors,  must  therefore  be  taken,  not  by  themselves,  but 
in  connection  with  the  Constitution  of  the  Seminary  pre- 
viously executed; — that  Constitution  having  expressly  and 
authoritatively  appointed  a  doctrinal  standard  for  "every 
Professor  in  the  Seminary."  In  Article  12th  of  the  Constitu- 
tion it  is  ordained  that  "  every  person  appointed  or  elected 
a  Professor  in  the  Seminary  shall subscribe  a  declara- 
tion of  his  faith in  the  fundamental  and  distinguish- 
ing doctrines  of  Christ  as  summarily  expressed  in  the  West- 
minster Assembly's  Shorter  Catechism."  And  in  Article  13th 
it  is  required  that  "  every  Professor  in  the  Seminary  "  shall 
repeat  the  above  declaration  every  five  years.  Looking  then 
at  the  express  provisions  of  the  Constitution  which  have 
never  been  repealed  or  set  aside,  and  never  modified,  except 
in  one  or  two  instances  by  the  Founders  themselves,  we  see 
clearly  that  the  Shorter  Catechism  is  binding  upon  "every 
Professor  in  the  Seminary."  And  as  the  Associate  Professors 
are  Professors  in  the  Seminary,  the  Catechism  is  binding  on 
them. 

It  has  been  said  that  the  admission  of  the  Associate 
Founders  with  their  Statutes  sets  aside  this  particular  pro- 
vision of  the  Constitution.  But  how  does  this  appear  ?  Do 
the  Associate  Founders  show  any  dissatisfaction  with  the 
Constitution  of  the  Seminary  or  any  wish  to  supersede  the 
Catechism  and  substitute  the  Associate  Creed  in  its  stead? 
Nowhere.  Did  they  frame  a  Creed  which  was  opposed  to 


338       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

the  Catechism,  or  in  any  way  incompatible  with  it?  Had 
they  done  this,  it  is  evident  from  the  32d  Article  of  the  Con- 
stitution, that  their  Creed  could  not  have  been  admitted  by 
the  Trustees.  The  Associate  Founders  then  who  well  under- 
stood the  provisions  of  the  Constitution  neither  expressed  any 
wish,  nor  did  anything  which  implied  a  wish,  to  set  aside 
the  authority  of  the  Catechism.  Their  Statutes  indeed  con- 
tained a  Creed;  but  it  was  a  Creed  which  harmonized  with 
the  Catechism  and  which,  they  themselves  being  judges, 
might  properly  be  joined  with  the  Catechism,  thus  forming 
one  consistent  Confession  of  Faith. 

But  if  it  be  admitted  that  the  Associate  Founders  of  Profess- 
orships had  no  right  and  no  desire  to  set  aside  the  Catechism 
as  a  standard  of  doctrine  for  every  Professor  in  the  Seminary ; 
still  did  not  the  Founders  of  the  Seminary  do  something  to 
alter  or  modify  the  standard  which  they  had  appointed  in  the 
12th  Article  of  their  Constitution  ?  They  had  indeed  reserved 
to  themselves  "  the  full  right  to  make  additional  regulations 
and  to  alter  any  rule  which  they  had  prescribed,  provided 
such  regulation  or  alteration  be  not  prejudicial  to  the  true 
design  of  the  Institution."  And  this  is  what  they  did  in  the 
exercise  of  this  reserved  right;  namely,  they  made,  in  the  fol- 
lowing year,  their  Additional  Statutes,  in  the  first  article  of 
which  they  expressly  refer  to  the  12th  Article  of  their  Consti- 
tution. And  how  do  they  refer  to  it?  They  refer  to  it  in 
the  way  of  manifest  approval  and  confirmation.  And  then  to 
bring  about  the  proposed  union  they  make  a  new  provision. 
And  what  was  that  new  provision?  Simply  this,  that  the 
Associate  Creed  should  be  added  to  the  Catechism,  and  that 
both  combined  should  be  the  Confession  of  Faith  for  every 
Professor  in  the  Seminary.  Thus  they  say :  "  having  provided 
in  the  12th  Article  of  our  Constitution,  that  every  person  ap- 
pointed or  elected  a  Professor  in  the  Seminary  shall  ....  pub- 
licly make  and  subscribe  a  declaration  of  his  faith  ....  in  the 
fundamental  and  distinguishing  doctrines  of  the  gospel  as 
summarily  expressed  in  the  ....  Shorter  Catechism;  ....  we 


THE    UNITED    CONFESSION    OF    FAITH.  339 

now  ordain  the  following  addition  to  be  inserted  in  connection 
with  the  said  clause,  namely,  and  as  more  particularly  ex- 
pressed in  the  following  Creed," — that  is,  the  Associate  Creed. 
Thus  the  12th  Article  of  the  Constitution  was  continued  in 
full  force;  and  while  the  Catechism  remained  as  it  was,  a  doc- 
trinal standard  for  every  Professor  in  the  Seminary;  the  As- 
sociate Creed  was  to  be  added  to  it,  and  to  be  subscribed, 
together  with  the  Catechism,  by  every  Professor  in  the  Semi- 
nary. This  is  what  the  Founders  of  the  Institution  did  in  the 
premises.  They  and  they  only  had  the  right  to  alter  or  modify 
the  12th  Article  of  the  Constitution.  And  this  is  all  the  alter- 
ation or  modification  which  they  made.  They  referred  to  the 
provision  they  had  before  made  in  the  said  article  re- 
specting the  Catechism — and  they  referred  to  it  as  being  in 
full  force;  and  then  they  ordained,  that  the  Associate  Creed 
should  be  added  to  the  Catechism,  and  thus  form  the  doctrinal 
standard  for  "every  Professor  in  the  Seminary."  They  virtu- 
ally and  practically  said  to  the  Associate  Founders, — if  you 
will  join  with  us  and  unite  your  funds  with  ours  in  this  great 
work  of  benevolence,  we  will,  agreeably  to  your  wishes,  add 
your  Creed  to  ours,  thus  making  one  and  the  same  Confession 
of  Faith  for  all  the  Professors  on  both  the  Foundations.  And 
in  order  to  make  the  Seminary  really  and  completely  one 
throughout;  as  you  unite  with  us  in  committing  the  establish- 
ment to  the  care  of  the  same  Trustees,  we  will  unite  with  you 
in  placing  the  establishment  under  the  supervision  of  the  same 
Board  qf  Visitors. — Both  of  these  they  actually  did  in  their 
Additional  Statutes.  And  both  of  these  they  did  as  the  es- 
sential conditions  of  the  union  demanded  by  the  other  party. 
And  these  conditions  being  performed,  the  other  party,  that 
is,  the  Associate  Founders  of  Professorships,  were  satisfied, 
and  on  the  ground  of  them,  came  into  the  union. 

The  language  of  the  First  Article  in  the  Additional  Stat- 
utes is  very  marked  and  clear:  "Every  Professor,"  etc. 
Now  the  Founders  were  accustomed,  whenever  there  was 
occasion  for  it,  to  speak  of  the  Professor  on  their  foundation. 


340       HISTORY  OF  ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

And  as  this  was  their  last  act,  and  was  done  expressly  in 
view  of  the  Associate  Statutes  and  on  the  condition  of  their 
being  accepted,  they  must  have  made  all  the  alteration  or 
modification  they  intended.  And  if  their  intention  had  been 
that  the  Catechism  should  be  restricted  to  the  Abbot  Pro- 
fessor, they  would  undoubtedly  have  said  so,  and  would  have 
shaped  the  First  Article  thus, —  Wliereas  in  our  Constitution  we 
have  provided,  that  every  Professor  in  the  Seminary  shall  make  a 
declaration  of  his  belief  in  the  essential  doctrines  of  the  Gospel  as 
expressed  in  the  Assembly's  Shorter  Catechism,  we  now  ordain 
that  this  provision  shall  be  restricted  to  the  Professor  on  our  foun- 
dation; and  ive  furthermore  provide  that  the  said  Professor,  that 
is,  the  Professor  of  Christian  Theology,  in  addition  to  the  above 
declaration  shall  subscribe  the  Associate  Creed.  This  could  have 
been  very  easily  done.  But  they  neither  made  this  alteration 
nor  authorised  any  one  else  to  make  it. 

It  would  indeed,  in  every  point  of  view,  be  a  very  strange 
supposition  that  the  Founders  and  Donors,  who  resolved  to 
have  only  one  Institution — one  in  object — one  in  place — one  in 
its  Board  of  Trustees — and  one  in  its  Board  of  Visitors,  did  not 
intend  to  make  it  one  in  the  faith  of  its  Professors :— a  very 
strange  supposition  that  Dr.  Spring  and  the  Associate  Donors 
understood  and  agreed  that  while  the  Professor  of  Christian 
Theology  should,  as  all  admit,  receive  the  Catechism  as  well 
as  the  Associate  Creed,  they  were  not  willing  that  the  Pro- 
fessors on  the  Associate  Foundation  should  do  the  same! 
What  possible  reason  could  they  have  had  for  making  any 
distinction  among  the  Professors, — and  if  any,  for  making 
this?  Did  they  intend  to  introduce  differences  of  doctrine 
to  engender  dissension,  strife,  and  disorder  ? 

It  is  then,  on  the  whole,  very  manifest,  that  the  obligation 
of'the  Associate  Professors  to  take  the  Catechism  as  a  part  of 
their  Confession  of  Faith  is  set  forth  with  even  greater  clear- 
ness and  force  than  the  acknowledged  obligation  of  the  Alibot 
Professor  to  take  the  Associate  Creed  as  a  part  of  his  Confes- 
sion of  Faith.  For  the  obligation  of  the  Abbot  Professor  rests 


THE    UNITED   CONFESSION   OF   FAITH.  341 

on  one  single  act  of  the  Founders  of  the  Seminary;  that  is, 
the  First  Article  of  the  Additional  Statutes.  This,  and  this 
only,  binds  the  Abbot  Professor  to  take  the  Associate  Creed. 
Now  this  same  Statute  binds  the  Associate  Professors  to  take 
the  Catechism.  If  it  has  authority  in  one  case,  it  has  in  the 
other.  If  it  has  not  authority,  then  the  Abbot  Professor  is 
not  under  obligation  to  subscribe  the  Associate  Creed.  But 
we  have  seen  that  the  obligation  of  the  Associate  Professors 
to  subscribe  the  Catechism  arises  not  only  from  the  First  Ar- 
ticle of  the  Additional  Statutes,  but  from  the  12th  Article  of 
the  Constitution,  which  equally  and  expressly  relates  to  every 
Professor  in  the  Seminary. 

It  is  thus  evident  that  if  you  deny  the  obligation  of  the 
Associate  Professors  to  subscribe  to  the  Catechism,  you  deny 
the  authority  of  the  12th  Article  of  the  Constitution.  And 
if  you  deny  the  obligation  of  the  Associate  Professors  to  sub- 
scribe to  the  Catechism,  you  also  deny  the  authority  of  the 
First  Article  of  the  Additional  Statutes;  and  of  course  you 
deny  the  authority  of  the  only  Statute  which  binds  the  Abbot 
Professor  to  take  the  Associate  Creed.  If  that  Statute  is  with- 
out authority  in  one  case  it  is  without  authority  in  the  other 
case.  In  other  words,  if  it  does  not  relate  to  the  Associate 
Professors  it  does  not  relate  to  the  Abbot  Professor.  And 
therefore  its  authority  is  extinct. 

No  objection  to  this  account  of  the  matter  can  arise  from 
the  fact  that  the  Additional  Statutes  and  the  Associate  Stat- 
utes were  not  executed  at  the  same  time,  the  former  bearing 
date  May  3,  1808,  the  latter  March  21,  1808.  The  fact  was 
that  there  was  a  constant  and  unreserved  intercourse  between 
the  parties,  and  that  all  the  designs  and  doings  of  each  were 
known  to  the  other.  The  Associate  Founders  finished  and 
signed  their  Statutes  about  six  weeks  before  the  Additional 
Statutes  were  formed  and  executed.  On  March  28  Dr.  Morse 
sent  a  copy  of  the  Associate  Statutes  to  Mr.  Farrar  for  the  use 
of  the  gentlemen  at  Andover.  But  the  Founders  on  both  sides 
were  fully  informed  of  the  measures  proposed  between  them  in 


342       HISTORY  OF  ANDOVER   THEOLOGICAL   SEMINARY. 

favor  of  the  union.  They  together  considered  those  measures 
frequently  and  planned  them  deliberately  before  they  form- 
ally adopted  them.  The  Additional  Statutes  and  the  Asso- 
ciate Statutes  stood  as  indispensable  conditions  of  each  other. 
The  Associate  Founders  enacted  their  statutes,  and  committed 
them  to  the  Trustees,  thus  coming  into  the  Seminary,  only 
on.  the  condition  that  the  Founders  of  the  Seminary  would 
do  what  they  proposed  to  do,  that  is,  would  enact  and  commit 
to  the  Trustees  the  Additional  Statutes  which  they  had  pre- 
pared, and  had  laid  before  the  Associate  Founders.  Arid  on 
the  other  side,  the  Founders  of  the  Seminary,  who  had  ex- 
amined and  approved  the  Associate  Statutes,  enacted  the 
Additional  Statutes,  only  on  the  condition  that  the  Associate 
Statutes  should  be  made  valid  by  being  accepted  by  the 
Trustees.  This  appears  from  the  preamble  of  the  Additional 
Statutes.  The  Founders  of  the  Seminary  expressly  say,  "  We 
make  and  ordain  the  following  articles,"  (the  Additional 
Statutes)  "to  be  added  to  and  taken  as  part  of  our  Constitu- 
tion; Provided  the  said  Trustees  shall  accept  the  Statutes  and 
Foundation  of  the  Associate  Founders, — which  are  now  exe- 
cuted and  to  be  laid  before  the  Trustees  at  their  approaching 
meeting;  and  to  continue  in  full  force  as  a  part  of  our  Con- 
stitution, so  long  as  the  said  Associate  Foundation  shall 
continue  attached  to  our  said  Institution,  and  no  longer." 
It  is  thus  made  exceedingly  plain,  that  the  Founders  of 
the  Seminary  were  fully  acquainted  with  the  Associate  Stat- 
utes and  approved  of  them,  before  they  actually  executed 
their  Additional  Statutes,  and  that  they  executed  them  as 
the  means  of  securing  the  union ;  and  on  the  condition  that 
the  union  should  be  actually  formed  and  continued.  And  it 
is  equally  plain  that  the  Associate  Founders  were  acquainted 
with  the  Constitution  of  the  Seminary  and  with  the  Addi- 
tional Statutes,  inasmuch  as  they  expressly  speak  of  "the 
Theological  Seminary  lately  founded  in  Andover,"  of  its 
Trustees  and  its  Constitution,  and  require  their  Professors 
solemnly  to  promise  that  they  "  will  religiously  conform  to 


THE    UNITED    CONFESSION    OF    FAITH.  343 

the  Constitution  of  the  Seminary,"  as  well  as  "  to  the  Statutes 
of  the  Associate  Foundation."  The  Associate  Founders  could 
not  have  done  all  this  without  understanding  and  entirely 
approving  the  Constitution;  for  they  had  it  before  them,  were 
satisfied  with  it,  and  came  into  the  union  under  it,  not 
excepting  any  one  of  its  provisions. 

In  a  word,  those  final  measures  of  the  two  parties  in 
accomplishing  the  union  were  adopted  in  open  daylight, 
after  having  been  perfectly  known  to  all,  and  after  having 
been  subjected  to  the  most  free  examination  and  the  most 
candid  and  thorough  discussion,  and  after  having  been  so 
amended  and  shaped,  as  at  length  to  be  fully  concurred  in 
by  all  concerned.  Had  the  Founders  of  the  Seminary  failed 
in  any  main  point;  particularly,  had  they  refused  to  take  the 
Associate  Creed  into  connection  with  the  Catechism,  and  in 
this  way  to  form  one  and  the  same  standard  for  all  the  Profess- 
ors ;  or  had  they  refused  to  unite  with  the  Associate  Founders  in 
one  and  the  same  Board  of  Visitors;  the  Associate  Founders 
would  not  have  come  into  the  union.  On  the  other  hand,  if 
the  Associate  Founders  in  their  Statutes  had  not  only  framed 
a  Creed,  but  proposed  to  displace  the  Catechism  and  to  sub- 
stitute their  Creed  instead  of  it;  or  had  they  refused  to  recog- 
nize the  authority  of  the  Constitution,  or  to  commit  their 
funds  and  their  Professors  to  the  care  of  the  Trustees,  to  be 
treated  according  to  the  provisions  of  the  Constitution  before 
established;  then  the  Founders  of  the  Seminary  would  not 
have  consented  to  form  a  union  with  them,  nor  could  the 
Trustees  have  received  their  Statutes  and  funds. 

The  legal  right  of  the  Founders  of  the  Seminary  to  make 
regulations  for  its  government,  which  has  always  been  ac- 
knowledged, rests  ultimately  on  the  act  of  our  State  Legis- 
lature, Oct.  4,  1780,  incorporating  the  Trustees  of  Phillips 
Academy  as  a  body  politic,  and  sanctioning  the  Constitution 
of  the  Academy.  This  act  of  incorporation  authorizes  the 
Trustees  to  receive  donations  under  such  regulations  as  are 
prescribed  by  the  Donors,  provided  those  regulations  are 


344      HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

consistent  with  the  nature  and  object  of  the  Academy.  In 
June  1807  the  General  Court  passed  another  act,  empowering 
the  Trustees  to  receive  and  hold  donations  for  the  establish- 
ment of  a  Theological  Institution,  and  to  apply  said  donations 
agreeably  to  the  will  of  the  Donors.  Under  the  authority 
and  protection  of  this  act,  the  Founders  of  the  Seminary  in 
1807  committed  funds  to  the  Trustees  of  Phillips  Academy 
for  the  purpose  of  founding  such  a  Seminary,  and  accom- 
panied those  funds  with  a  Constitution,  containing  directions 
and  rules  for  the  management  of  the  Seminary,  and  prescrib- 
ing a  Confession  of  Faith  for  the  Professors.  These  funds 
the  Trustees  received,  and  engaged  to  conduct  the  affairs  of 
the  Seminary  in  conformity  with  the  directions  of  the  Found- 
ers— thus  recognizing  the  validity  of  those  directions;  and 
afterwards  in  1808  accepted  the  Additional  Statutes,  and 
thus  gave  their  sanction  to  them  as  a  part  of  the  Constitution 
of  the  Seminary. 

This  right  of  the  Founders  of  the  Institution  has  been 
fully  recognized  by  the  Trustees,  not  only  in  their  act  in  un- 
dertaking the  care  of  the  Seminary,  and  in  their  subsequent 
act  in  accepting  and  thus  confirming  the  Additional  Statutes, 
but  in  all  their  subsequent  doings  in  administering  its  affairs. 
They  have  continually  looked  for  direction  to  the  Constitution 
and  Statutes  of  the  Founders.  They  have  done  this  particu- 
larly in  preparing  and  publishing  a  code  of  Laws  for  the 
Seminary.  And  in  these  Laws,  which  were  carefully  framed 
by  a  Committee,  and  then  approved  and  ordered  to  be  pub- 
lished by  the  Board,  they  quote  the  very  articles  of  the  Con- 
stitution and  of  the  Additional  Statutes,  which  respect  a  Con- 
fession of  Faith, — and  they  quote  them  as  authoritative,  and 
publish  them  with  their  sanction,  as  Laws  of  the  Institution; 
laws  relating  expressly  to  all  the  Professors  in  the  Seminary. 
And  what  is  required  by  these  Laws,  thus  derived  from  the 
Constitution  and  Statutes  of  the  Founders,  relative  to  the 
present  subject?  We  find  an  answer  in  the  Laws  of  the 
Institution  prepared  and  published  by  the  Trustees  in  1817, 


THE    UNITED    CONFESSION    OF    FAITH.  34JJ 

in  1827,  and  again,  nineteen  years  after,  in  1846.  In  Chapter 
III.,  Section  4th,  the  following-  is  put  forth  as  one  of  the  Laws 
of  the  Institution,  to  wit,  *'  Every  Professor  in  the  Seminary 
shall  be, ....  of  sound  and  orthodox  principles  in  divinity,  ac- 
cording to  that  form  of  sound  words,  or  system  of  evangeli- 
cal doctrines,  drawn  from  the  scriptures,  and  denominated 
The  Assembly's  Shorter  Catechism."  And  at  the  close  of  the 
5th  Section,  it  is  further  said,  u  that  no  man  shall  be  contin- 
ued as  President  or  Professor  in  this  Seminary,  who  shall  not 
approve  himself,  to  the  satisfaction  of  the  Trustees,  a  man  of 
sound  and  orthodox  principles  in  divinity,  agreeably  to  the 
system  of  evangelical  doctrines  contained  in  the  Westmin- 
ster Assembly's  Shorter  Catechism,  and  more  concisely  delin- 
eated in  the  aforesaid"  (the  Associate)  "Creed."  The  law 
above  laid  down  in  Sect.  4th  is  taken  from  the  12th  Article 
of  the  Constitution.  And  that  which  is  laid  down  in  the 
5th  Section  is  derived,  in  part  from  the  13th  Article  of  the 
Constitution,  in  part  from  the  1st  Article  of  the  Additional 
Statutes,  and  in  part  from  the  3d  Article  of  the  Associate 
Statutes.  This  3d  Article  relates  only  to  the  Associate  Pro- 
fessors. But  it  is  here  taken  in  connection  with  Article  12th 
of  the  Constitution  and  Article  1st  of  the  Additional  Statutes, 
and  thus  it  constitutes  a  law  relating  alike  to  every  Professor 
ia  the  Seminary. 

It  is  clear  then  that  in  the  judgment  of  the  Trustees  the 
provisions  of  the  Constitution  and  of  the  Additional  Statutes 
relative  to  a  Confession  of  Faith,  are  to  be  applied  to  every 
Professor  in  the  Seminary. 

It  has,  we  have  seen,  been  doubted,  whether  the  1st  Arti- 
cle of  the  Additional  Statutes  is  binding  upon  all  the  Professors, 
while  it  is  acknowledged  to  be  binding  on  a  part.  But  any  one 
who  reads  the  Article  will  see  that  it  is  as  binding  upon  all 
as  upon  apart?  It  is  admitted  to  be  binding  upon  the  Abbot 
Professor.  But  this  article  does  not  name  the  Abbot  Professor, 
and  neither  expresses  nor  implies  any  distinction  between  the 
Abbot  Professor  and  the  other  Professors.  It  is  not  like  the  As- 


346       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

sociate  Statutes,  which  were  made  expressly  for  particular  Pro- 
fessors, and  which  never,  in  any  instance,  speak  of  every  Prof  essor 
in  the  Seminary,  or  of  the  Professors  indiscriminately,  but  always 
guardedly,  of  every  Professor  on  the  "Associate  Fodndation." 
But  the  article  above  mentioned,  together  with  Articles  12th 
and  13th  of  the  Constitution,  speak  not  of  the  Professor  on 
the  Abbot  Foundation,  but  of  "  every  Professor  in  the  Seminary." 
So  that  if  this  1st  Article  of  the  Additional  Statutes  has  au- 
thority, it  has  authority,  as  it  stands, — not  as  it  would  stand, 
if  it  said,  every  Professor  on  the  Abbot  Foundation.  The  Founders 
made  the  provision,  as  every  one  must  see,  not  for  any  single 
Professor,  but  for  every  Professor  in  the  Institution.  And  if 
they  had  authority  to  do  any  thing  on  the  subject;  they  had 
authority  to  do  what  they  did.  It  was  their  very  object  in 
making  the  Additional  Statutes,  to  satisfy  the  Associate 
Donors  and  induce  them  to  come  into  the  union  by  doing 
these  two  things;  First,  by  adopting  as  a  "  common  and  perma- 
nent Creed,"  that  which  was  proposed  by  Dr.  Pearson  and 
Mr.  Farrar  in  the  Conference  at  Newburyport  in  June  1807, 
and  expressly  mentioned  in  the  articles  of  agreement  signed 
by  Dr.  Pearson,  Dr.  Morse,  and  Dr.  Spring,  Dec.  1,  1807 ;  and 
that  which  was  thus  agreed  upon,  according  to  the  under- 
standing of  the  two  parties  in  Article  1st  of  the  Additional 
Statutes,  by  adding  the  Associate  Creed  to  the  Catechism, 
thus  making  the  Associate  Creed  the  common  and  perma- 
nent Creed  for  all  the  Professors  in  addition  to  the  Shorter 
Catechism.  Secondly,  by  joining  with  the  Associate  Donors 
in  appointing  one  common  and  permanent  Board  of  Visitors 
for  all  the  Foundations  in  the  Seminary. 

These  two  were  the  conditions  of  the  union  on  the  part 
of  the  Founders  of  the  Seminary;  and  the  conditions  were 
executed  in  the  Additional  Statutes. 

In  order  to  prove  that  the  Associate  Professors  should  not 
be  required  to  subscribe  to  the  Catechism  in  connection  with 
the  Associate  Creed,  it  has  been  alleged  that  the  doctrines 
of  the  gospel  are  declared  by  the  Founders  themselves  to  be 


THE    UNITED    CONFESSION    OF    FAITH.  347 

expressed  "  more  particularly  "  in  the  Associate  Creed  than 
in  the  Catechism, — which  they  say  expresses  them  "  sum- 
marily." Now  it  is  a  freely  admitted  fact  that,  in  the  article 
referred  to,  the  Founders  do  speak  of  the  Associate  Creed  as 
expressing  the  doctrines  of  the  gospel  "  more  particularly  " 
than  the  Catechism.  But  the  same  Founders  in  the  same 
article  require  every  Professor  to  subscribe  to  both, — to  the 
Catechism  first,  arid  then,  "in  addition"  to  this,  to  the  As- 
sociate Creed. 

We  may  now  undertake  to  criticise  the  Statutes,  and  say, 
that  as  the  Associate  Creed  is  said  by  the  Founders  to  be 
more  particular  than  the  Catechism  in  expressing  the  doc- 
trines of  the  gospel;  there  is  no  need  of  subscribing  to  both. 
As  the  Creed  which  is  more  particular  contains  the  substance 
of  the  Catechism,  why  should  the  Catechism  be  still  retained  ? 
why  is  not  the  more  particular  sufficient  by  itself  without  the 
other  ?  And  why  should  not  the  other  be  merged  in  this  ? 
We,  in  our  wisdom,  may  think  this  to  be  seasonable  and  ex- 
pedient. And  had  we  been  Founders  of  the  Seminary,  we 
might  have  thought  best  to  shape  the  Statutes  in  this  man- 
ner. But  the  Founders,  who  had  a  right  to  think  for  them- 
selves, thought  differently.  They  indeed  spoke  of  the  As- 
sociate Creed  as  more  particular;  but  they  never  thought  it 
better  than  the  Catechism.  They  most  evidently  preferred  the 
Catechism  arid  adopted  the  Associate  Creed  in  addition  to  it 
merely  to  secure  the  union,  and  only  on  the  condition  that 
the  union  should  be  effected  and  continued.  Their  will  was, 
to  give  up  the  Associate  Creed  and  retain  the  Catechism  only 
unless  the  Associate  Foundation  should  be  attached  to  their 
Institution.  But  they  never  uttered  a  word  implying  that 
the  Catechism  was  to  be  either  given  up,  or  merged  in  the 
Associate  Creed.  This  is  evident  from  their  acts  both  in  the 
Constitution  and  in  the  Additional  Statutes.  Although  then 
it  may  be  our  opinion  that  it  would  have  been  expedient  for 
them  to  give  up  the  Catechism,  our  opinion  is  of  no  avail. 
The  only -question  is,  what  the  statutes  show  to  have  been 


348       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

the  will  of  the  Founders.  If  they  appointed  that  every  Pro- 
fessor in  the  Seminary  should  subscribe  to  the  Catechism  and 
also  to  the  Associate  Creed,  this  is  the  end  of  the  matter, 
whether  we  think  they  judged  wisely  or  not. 

It  will  be  kept  in  mind,  that  there  is  not  a  particle  of 
proof  from  the  Constitution  and  Additional  Statutes,  that  the 
Catechism  is  to  be  taken  away  from  the  doctrinal  standard 
of  the  Associate  Professors,  more  than  there  is  that  it  is  to  be 
taken  away  from  the  standard  of  the  Abbot  Professor.  If 
the  acts  of  the  Founders  of  the  Institution  show,  that  the 
Associate  Professors  are  to  subscribe  the  Associate  Creed 
without  the  Catechism,  they  show  that  the  Abbot  Professor 
is  to  do  the  same.  For  every  article  which  requires  him  to 
subscribe  the  Catechism,  requires  them  to  do  it.  And  if  the 
Statutes  are  of  force  in  regard  to  him  they  are  in  regard  to 
them.  And  it  would  be  wholly  without  proof  and  in  opposi- 
tion to  the  plain  sense  of  the  Constitution  and  Statutes,  to 
say,  that  any  subscription  is  required  of  him,  which  is  not 
required  of  them.  It  would  be  uttering  the  truth  very  feebly 
and  partially  to  say  that  the  Associate  Donors  were  satisfied 
with  the  1st  Article  of  the  Additional  Statutes,  which  ap- 
pointed one  common  and  permanent  Confession  of  Faith  for 
all  the  Professors.  The  fact  was  that  this  article,  as  well  as 
the  remaining  articles  of  the  Additional  Statutes,  was  de- 
signed and  made  by  the  Founders  of  the  union,  a  condition 
for  no  other  purpose  than  to  secure  the  union.  Thus,  as  we 
have  seen,  they  expressly  say  in  the  preamble,  that  they 
make  these  Additional  Statutes  and  ordain  them  to  be  a  part 
of  the  Constitution — provided  the  Associate  Statutes  already 
executed,  should  be  accepted  by  the  Trustees  at  their  ap- 
proaching meeting,  that  is,  May  1808.  There  was,  I  repeat 
it,  a  free,  constant  and  unreserved  intercourse  between  the 
parties  from  March  16,  1807,  up  to  the  consummation  of  the 
union,  May  3d,  1808.  All  concerned  had  a  full  knowledge  of 
what  was  done  and  what  was  intended  to  be  done  on  both  sides. 
The  correspondence  shows  how  constant  were  the  intercom- 


THE    UNITED    CONFESSION    OF    FAITH.  349 

raunications  between  the  parties,  and  with  what  unceasing 
consultation  and  mutual  agreement  every  thing  pertaining 
to  the  Institution  was  planned.  The  preamble  of  the  Addi- 
tional Statutes  makes  it  clear  that  the  Founders  of  the  Sem- 
inary well  knew  beforehand  that  the  Associate  Donors  had 
executed  their  Statutes  and  were  to  lay  them  before  the 
Trustees  May  4th  for  their  acceptance;  and  they  knew  what 
those  Statutes  were.  And  the  Associate  Donors  knew  that 
the  Founders  of  the  Seminary  had  framed  their  Additional 
Statutes  and  were  in  season  to  sign  them  and  then  to  lay 
them  before  the  Trustees  at  the  same  meeting.  Neither  party 
would  have  done  what  they  did,  without  knowing  and  ap- 
proving what  the  other  party  had  done.  Had  not  the  As- 
sociate Donors  known  the  Additional  Statutes  and  been 
satisfied  with  them  as  a  condition  of  the  union,  how  indignant 
would  they  have  felt  when  they  found  what  the  First  Article 
of  those  Statutes  was,  and  how  promptly  would  they  have 
protested  against  requiring  all  the  Professors  alike  to  sub- 
scribe to  the  joint  Confession  of  Faith  which  was  there  pre- 
scribed !  But  who  ever  heard  a  whisper  of  dissatisfaction 
with  that  article  from  either  of  the  Associate  Founders  ?  In 
a  word,  who  can  admit  the  thought,  that  such  men  as  those 
who  were  engaged  in  this  great  public  work — men  of  such  intel- 
ligence, caution  and  fidelity,  would  rush  together  heedlessly 
— would  commit  themselves  to  a  union  involving  interests 
both  vast  and  sacred,  as  they  actually  did  in  May  1808, 
after  deliberations  and  consultations  for  so  long  a  time 
— who  can  admit  the  thought  that  they  committed  themselves 
to  such  a  union  without  mutually  understanding  and  approv- 
ing the  terms  of  the  union  ?  But  if  the  Associate  Founders 
understood  what  those  terms  were,  and  approved  them,  they 
understood  and  approved  the  Additional  Statutes  which  were 
formed  for  the  very  purpose  of  effecting  the  union,  and  which 
constituted  the  grand  condition  of  it.  And  if  they  understood 
and  approved  these  Additional  Statutes,  they  understood  and 
approved  the  First  Article  of  them,  which  appoints  one 


350       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

and  the  same  joint  Confession  of  Faith  for  every  Profess- 
or in  the  Seminary.  And  I  subjoin  my  personal  testi- 
mony, that  the  Associate  Founders,  together  with  Dr.  Spring, 
had  the  Additional  Statutes  for  a  long  time  under  their 
consideration,  that  those  statutes  relative  both  to  the  joint 
Confession  of  Faith  and  the  Board  of  Visitors  were  shaped 
according  to  their  wishes  and  met  their  approval  just  as 
they  are,  and  were  accepted  and  acted  upon,  both  by  them, 
and  by  the  Trustees,  as  a  satisfactory  ground  of  the  union. 
Indeed  these  Additional  Statutes  constituted  the  bond  which 
united  the  two  sets  of  Donors,  and  their  respective  coun- 
sellors and  agents. 

I  have  been  very  desirous,  in  the  present  case,  to  make 
every  thing  as  clear  as  possible,  and  have  labored  to  estab- 
lish what  I  consider  to  be  the  truth,  by  presenting  it  in  a 
variety  of  lights,  and  sometimes  by  repetitions.  I  shall  now 
close  with  a  summary  view  of  the  whole  matter. 

Forming  the  Additional  Statutes  was  the  last  act  of  the 
Founders,  and  accepting  them,  together  with  the  Associate 
Statutes,  was  the  last  act  of  the  Trustees  in  establishing  the 
united  Seminary.  In  these  Additional  Statutes,  the  Founders 
of  the  Institution  expressly  recognized  and  re-affirmed  the  12th 
Article  of  the  Constitution  which  made  the  Catechism  the 
doctrinal  standard  of  every  Professor  in  the  Seminary.  They 
also  recognized  the  Associate  Statutes  which  had  already 
been  executed,  though  not  yet  laid  before  the  Trustees,  but 
which  had  been  communicated  to  them,  and  from  which  they 
had  copied  into  their  Additional  Statutes  both  the  Associate 
Creed  and  the  Articles  providing  a  Board  of  Visitors.  Thus 
they  performed  this,  their  ultimate  act,  with  a  full  knowledge 
of  the  Institution  which  had,  the  previous  year,  been  founded 
in  Andover,  and  with  its  Constitution,  to  which  they  ex- 
pressly and  repeatedly  refer;  and  also  with  the  Additional 
Statutes  which  added  the  Associate  Creed  to  the  Catechism, 
and  which  provided  the  same  Board  of  Visitors  for  which 
the  Associate  Founders  had  provided,  and  thus  they  fulfilled 


THE    UNITED    CONFESSION    OF    FAITH.  351 

the  condition  required  by  the  Associate  Founders  as  indis- 
pensable to  the  union.  These  last  acts  on  both  sides  were 
done  in  open  daylight,  after  much  mutual  consultation,  and 
long  consideration,  and  are  of  course  to  be  regarded  as  their 
mature  and  final  acts;  and  to  be  taken  together  as  forming 
a  union  between  the  parties — not  a  partial,  but  a  complete 
union — union  in  one  and  the  same  Board  of  Trustees,  and  in 
one  and  the  same  Board  of  Visitors,  and  in  one  and  the  same 
theological  basis.  These  points  were  regarded  as  all-im- 
portant and  essential  to  the  accomplishment  of  the  union 
between  the  generous  donors  on  both  sides. 

In  this  place  it  deserves  particular  notice  that  the  Addi- 
tional Statutes  of  the  Founders,  and  the  Associate  Statutes 
both  provide  that  "the  Visitors  shall  subscribe  the  same 
Theological  Creed  which  every  Professor  is  required  to  sub- 
scribe." From  this  it  is  evident  that  the  Founders  and 
Donors  contemplated  one  and  the  same  Creed  for  every 
Professor.  And  what  does  the  practice  of  the  Visitors  show 
this  same  Theological  Creed  to  be  ?  What  Theological  Creed 
do  they  subscribe  ?  I  answer,  that  in  conformity  with  Arti- 
cle 1st  of  the  Additional  Statutes,  they  subscribe  the  Cate- 
chism with  the  addition  of  the  Associate  Creed.  If  the 
Visitors  are  to  subscribe  the  same  Theological  Creed  which 
every  Professor  is  required  to  subscribe,  then  of  course  every 
Professor  is  to  subscribe  the  same  creed  which  the  Visitors 
subscribe.  There  is  only  one  Confession  of  Faith  for  both, 
and,  according  to  the  practice  of  the  Visitors,  that  one  is  the 
confession  of  the  Associate  Creed,  added  to  the  Catechism.  If 
the  Visitors  are  right,  this  settles  the  matter. 

And  here  I  cannot  overlook  the  declared  judgment  of 
Samuel  Farrar,  Esq.,  who,  as  a  practical  lawyer,  was  employed 
by  the  Founders  in  pursuance  of  their  object,  to  frame  and 
write  the  Additional  Statutes,  and  who  now  says  expressly 
that  "he  knows  the' Founders  understood  that  all  the  Pro- 
fessors were  to  subscribe  the  Catechism  and  the  Associate 
Creed." 


352       HISTORY  OF  ANDOVER   THEOLOGICAL   SEMINARY. 

Let  me  say  in  conclusion,  what  is  plainly  implied  in  the 
foregoing  discussion,  that  there  is  only  one  way  in  which  all 
the  provisions  of  the  Founders  can  be  carried  into  effect.  If 
the  Abbot  Professor  should  subscribe  the  Catechism  and  that 
only,  he  would  neglect  the  First  Article  of  the  Additional 
Statutes.  And  if  the  other  Professors  should  subscribe  the 
Associate  Creed  and  that  only,  they  would  neglect  both  the 
requirement  of  the  Constitution  and  of  the  Additional  Stat- 
utes. Whereas,  if  all  the  Professors  subscribe  both  the 
Catechism  and  the  Associate  Creed,  they  will  conform  to 
the  First  Article  of  the  Additional  Statutes,  which  contains 
the  common  and  permanent  Creed  before  agreed  upon,  and 
no  provision  of  the  Founders  on  either  side  will  be  violated 
or  neglected. 

I  have  dwelt  so  long  on  this  subject,  not  because  I  sup- 
pose the  Associate  Professors  are  less  pleased  with  the  Cate- 
chism, or  less  ready  to  subscribe  to  it,  than  the  Abbot 
Professor;  nor  because  I  suppose  the  Trustees  or  Visitors 
have  any  objection  to  the  Catechism,  or  do  not  regard  it 
with  cordial  approbation.  My  object  has  been  merely  to 
support  the  Constitution  and  Statutes  of  the  Founders;  and 
to  show  with  all  possible  clearness  what  they  require. 


XL 


VARIOUS    QUESTIONS    ANSWERED,    CONCERNING    THE    UNITED 
CONFESSION     OF     FAITH. 

IT  has  sometimes  been  made  a  question,  hoiu  Dr.  Spring, 
ivith  his  peculiar  views,  could  consent  that  the  Professors  on 
the  Associate  Foundation  should  be  required  to  conform  to  the 
Catechism.  But  it  would  be  much  more  natural  to  ask, 
how  he  could  consent,  as  he  evidently  did,  that  the  man 


VAKIOUS    QUESTIONS    ANSWERED.  353 

whom  he  had  selected  as  the  Professor  of  Christian  Theology, 
should  be  required  to  do  this  especially  on  supposition 
that  the  other  Professors  should  not  be  required  to  do  it. 
The  history  of  the  transactions  during  the  former  part  of 
1807  shows,  that  Dr.  Spring  preferred  a  Creed  in  the 
proper  form  of  a  Confession  of  Faith.  It  is  also  evident, 
that  if  the  union  had  been  prevented,  or  if  it  had  been 
dissolved  after  the  experiment  agreed  upon,  then  the  Asso- 
ciate Theological  School  would  have  had  its  own  Creed, 
without,  the  Catechism,  while  the  Catechism  alone  would 
have  been  the  doctrinal  standard  of  the  Theological  School 
at  Aridover.  But  with  a  view  to  a  union,  Dr.  Spring,  in  com- 
pliance with  the  wishes  of  the  Associate  Founders,  insisted  on 
it,  as  a  condition  of  the  union,  that  the  Founders  at  An- 
dover  should  add  the  Associate  Creed  to  the  Catechism, 
and  thus  make  a  united  Confession  of  Faith  for  all  the 
Professors.  Had  the  union  been  formed  without  the  pro- 
vision contained  in  the  1st  Article  of  the  Additional  Statutes, 
the  12th  Article  of  the  Constitution  would  still  have  re- 
lated to  "every  Professor  in  the  Seminary,"  while  the  ap- 
pointment of  a  Creed  in  the  2d  Article  of  the  Associate 
Statutes  would  have  applied  to  "every  Professor  on  the 
Associate  Founda'tion,"  but  not  to  the  Abbot  Professor  of 
Christian  Theology.  It  applies,  as  has  been  shown  before, 
to  the  Abbot  Professor,  only  by  virtue  of  the  1st  Article 
of  the  Additional  Statutes.  Now  Dr.  Spring  would  of 
course  think  most  of  a  doctrinal  standard  for  the  Pro- 
fessor of  Christian  Theology.  And  after  he  knew  it  to 
be  a  settled  point  that  the  Professor  of  Theology,  though 
previously  appointed  by  the  Associate  Founders,  was  to  be 
on  the  Abbot  Foundation,  he  became  more  than  ever 
desirous,  that,  as  there  was  to  be  a  union,  it  should  be  an 
entire  union, — a  union  of  all  the  funds  in  the  establish- 
ment of  one  great  Institution — a  union  in  the  same  Board 
of  Trustees,  and  in  the  same  Board  of  Visitors,  and  a 
union  in  the  same  Confession  of  Faith  fgr  all  the  Pro- 


354       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

fessors.  If  there  had  been  in  his  mind  any  objection  to 
making  the  Catechism  a  constituent  part  of  the  doctrinal 
standard  for  the  Professors,  it  would  certainly  have  re- 
lated first  of  all  to  the  Professor  of  Christian  Theology. 
If  Dr.  Spring  and  the  Associate  Founders  agreed,  as  they 
certainly  did,  that  the  united  Confession  of  Faith  should 
be  binding  on  that  Professor,  it  would  be  very  unreason- 
able to  suppose  that  they  would  wish  the  Professors  in 
the  other  departments  to  be  exempt. 

As  the  Associate  Founders  provided  in  their  Statutes, 
Article  27th,  that  their  Creed  should  not  in  any  way  be 
altered,  it  has  been  thought  by  some,  that  joining  it  with 
the  Catechism  would  violate  that  provision.  But  how  does 
this  appear?  The  Founders  of  the  Seminary  in  their  Ad- 
ditional Statutes  took  the  Associate  Creed,  just  as  it  was, 
without  the  least  alteration,  addition,  or  diminution,  and  added 
the  whole  of  it  to  the  Catechism.  The  Associate  Founders 
never  considered  this  as  opposed  to  the  true  intent  of 
the  27th  Article  of  their  Statutes.  On  the  contrary,  they 
not  only  approved  of  this  addition  of  their  Creed  unaltered 
and  in  its  totality  to  the  Catechism,  but  even  required  it 
as  an  indispensable  condition  of  the  union,  and  as  necessary 
to  make  the  union  complete.  By  coming  into  the  union 
with  the  1st  Article  of  the  Additional  Statutes  before  them, 
they  gave  their  sanction  to  that  article.  This  they  could 
by  no  means  have  done,  had  they  regarded  such  an  ad- 
dition of  their  Creed  to  the  Catechism,  as  a  violation  of 
the  27th  Article  of  their  Statutes.  And  had  the  Trustees 
regarded  it  in  this  light,  they  could  not,  at  the  same  meet- 
ing, have  accepted  both  the  Associate  Statutes  and  the 
Additional  Statutes. 

The  mere  appointment  of  a  doctrinal  standard  or  Con- 
fession of  Faith  for  the  Professors  in  the  Seminary,  has 
been  considered  by  some  as  open  to  serious  objections. 
In  regard  to  this  view  of  the  subject,  I  can  do  nothing 
better  than  to  .quote  the  just  and  satisfactory  remarks  of 


VARIOUS    QUESTIONS    ANSWERED.  355 

my  former   Colleague,    Professor  Stuart,   found   in    his    Ser- 
mon at  the  dedication  of  Bartlett  Hall,  Sept.  3d,  1821.1 

"It  will  be  seen,"  he  says,  "that  the  Founders  were 
sincerely  and  earnestly  bent  on  preserving,  as  pure  as  pos- 
sible, the  principles  on  which  the  Seminary  had  been 
established;  and  that  every  thing  which  human  wisdom 
and  foresight  could  do  to  accomplish  this,  has  already 
been  done.  We  are  aware  that  this  arrangement  has 
excited  much  animadversion;  but  we  are  not  able  to 
perceive  any  impropriety  in  it.  Had  not  the  Founders, 
sincerely  believing  as  they  did,  that  the  principles  of 
their  Creed  were  truly  Christian,  arid  such  as  the  great 
body  of  the  pious  in  every  age  of  the  church  had  main- 
tained, a  right  to  bestow  their  property  in  such  a  way  as 
to  maintain  those  principles  ? — If  you  deny  this,  you  deny 
liberty  of  conscience,  and  the  liberty  of  Christians.  If 
you  admit  it,  then  you  justify  the  measures  which  they 
have  taken. 

"  Will  it  be  said  that  the  consciences  of  men  are  bound 
by  such  a  measure,  that  Christian  and  Protestant  freedom 
of  investigation  is  denied  to  the  officers  and  students  of 
this  Seminary;  and  that  inquiry  and  all  improvement  in 
respect  to  the  doctrines  of  Theology  are  at  an  end  among 
those  who  submit  to  such  requisitions  in  the  true  spirit 
of  them  ?  I  know  this  has  been  said.  But  if  it  may  ap- 
pear plausible  in  theory,  it  has  very  little  concern  with 
practice.  The  instructors  in  this  Seminary  must  be  sup- 
posed to  have  formed  their  opinion  about  the  great  points 
of  theology  before  they  are  elected  to  office  here.  If  they 
subscribe  ex  ammo  to  the  Creed,  they  may  surely  do  it  with 
entire  integrity.  If  in  the  course  of  future  investigation, 
they  alter  their  opinions  in  respect  to  any  doctrines  of 
the  Creed,  nothing  prevents  the  alteration.  They  are  at 
liberty  as  much  as  any  other  men  on  earth.  They  make 
no  promise  not  to  change  their  opinions,  express  or  im- 
1  See  sermon,  pages  26-30. 


356       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY. 

plied.  But  the  Founders  have  provided  that,  in  case  of 
such  a  change,  they  cannot  be  retained  in  their  service. 
They  have  the  same  right  of  all  men,  to  espouse  the  prin- 
ciples of  religion  which  they  have  adopted;  the  common 
unalienable  right  of  all  men,  to  appropriate  their  property 
to  build  up  the  church  in  that  method  which  they  judge 
proper,  provided  it  do  not  infringe  on  the  similar  rights 
of  their  neighbors.  They  had  the  same  right  to  annex 
such  a  condition  to  the  tenure  of  Professorships  here,  that 
a  man  has  in  any  case  to  annex  a  condition  to  the  enjoy- 
ment of  a  gift  which  he  has  bestowed.  And  if  a  Professor 
has  common  honesty,  he  can  never  subscribe  to  the  Creed, 
unless  he  really  believe  it.  If  he  assents  to  this  Creed 
and  then  inculcates  principles  contrary  to  it,  he  surely 
is  not  a  man  who  ought  to  be  retained  in  any  important 
post  of  the  church.  If  in  the  course  of  his  investigations 
he  becomes  satisfied  that  any  of  the  principles  of  his  Creed 
are  substantially  incorrect,  then  let  him  openly  and  hon- 
estly abandon  a  place  which  he  cannot  conscientiously 
hold.  If  for  the  paltry  consideration  of  retaining  his 
salary,  he  will  do  violence  to  his  conscience,  and  conceal 
his  sentiments,  there  is  no  human  remedy  for  it;  but  if  he 
develops  them,  the  Statutes  of  the  Founders  must  be  exe- 
cuted. Why  should  they  not?  And  what  complaint  could 
he  have  to  make  if  they  should  be?  He  accepted  the 
office,  with  a  full  knowledge  of  all  the  circumstances. 

"  In  principle,  I  believe  in  practice,  we  are  genuine  Prot- 
estants. The  Bible  we  regard  as  the  sufficient  and  only 
rule  of  faith  and  practice.  We  believe  in  the  doctrines 
of  our  Creed,  merely  because  we  suppose  the  Bible  teaches 
them.  We  profess  to  shrink  not  from  the  most  strenuous 
investigation.  I  am  bold  to  say,  there  is  not  a  school  of 
theology  on  earth,  where  more  free  and  unlimited  investi- 
gation is  indulged,  nay.  incvlcated  and  practised.  The 
shelves  of  our  Libraries  are  loaded  with  the  books  of 
latitudinarians  and  sceptics,  which  are  read  and  studied. 


VARIOUS    QUESTIONS    ANSWERED.  357 

We  have  no  apprehension  that  the  truths,  which  we  be- 
lieve, are  to  suffer  by  such  an  investigation.  We  feel  so 
well  satisfied  they  are  truths  taught  by  th  Bible,  that  we 
calculate  with  entire  confidence  on  any  young  man's  em- 
bracing them,  whose  heart  is  right  towards  God,  and  who 
examines  candidly  and  thoroughly.  We  choose  that  he 
should  know  well,  what  antagonists  he  has  to  meet  in  the 
world;  and  that  he  should  not  be  sent  out  to  battle,  while 
he  is  unacquainted  with  the  armor,  the  strength  and  skill 
of  his  opponents." 

The  foregoing  remarks  of  Professor  Stuart  are  just 
and  candid.  If  the  Confession  of  Faith  which  a  Professor 
receives  is  true,  and  if  he  cordially  believes  it  to  be  so,  he 
can  have  no  reason  to  avoid  the  most  free  and  unfettered 
examination  of  its  doctrines.  The  more  thoroughly  the 
truth  is  considered  and  weighed,  the  more  clear  and  satis- 
factory will  be  the  evidence  which  supports  it;  and  the 
more  obviously  inconclusive  and  futile  the  arguments 
urged  against  it.  The  truth  loves  the  light.  And  the 
man  who  firmly  believes  it,  wishes  for  increasing  light; 
and  there  is  no  danger  that  the  most  free  inquiry,  con- 
ducted on  right  principles,  will  produce  any  alteration  in 
his  faith,  except  to  render  it  more  firm  and  more  efficacious. 
On  the  other  hand,  if  any  one  doubts  the  truth  of  the 
opinions  which  he  is  required  to  maintain,  it  will  be  natural 
for  him  to  fear  the  trial  of  free  inquiry. 

In  this  remarkable  age,  when  men  are  so  prone  to  depre- 
ciate what  is  old,  and  so  intent  on  making  improvements 
and  innovations  in  all  the  departments  of  human  affairs, 
it  may  be  wished  and  expected  by  some  that  this  work  of 

progress  should  go  on  in  this  Seminary,  and  that  the  Pro- 
fessors should  take  the  lead  in  finding  out  errors  and  defects 
in  all  former  systems;  in  bringing  out  new  and  ingenious  view* 
of  Christian  doctrines,  and  in  forming  philosophical  and 
theological  systems  widely  different  from  that  held  by  the 

Westminster  Assembly,  by  our  Puritan  forefathers,  and  even 


358       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

by  that  "Prince  of  Divines"  Jonathan  Edwards.  And  some 
seem  to  have  taken  pleasure  in  thinking,  that  this  work 
of  purging  out  remains  of  error  and  ignorance  in  old-fash- 
ioned orthodoxy,  and  introducing  new  and  ingenious  spec- 
ulations into  our  religious  systems,  is  to  be  successfully 
carried  on  here  by  men  of  distinguished  talents  and  eru- 
dition, industry  and  independence. 

Now  on  the  slightest  examination  it  will  be  seen  that 
such  views  as  these,  however  just  and  proper  in  some  other 
cases,  are  quite  out  of  place  Jiere.  It  was  indeed  a  primary 
object  of  the  Founders  of  the  Institution  to  promote  a 
growing  acquaintance  with  the  sacred  volume,  and  with 
the  truths  which  it  contains,  and  to  train  up  men  who 
should  be  learned  and  able  defenders  of  those  momentous 
truths.  Any  man  who  examines  the  Constitution  of  the 
Seminary,  Articles  5th  to  10th,  and  considers  what  various 
and  extensive  provisions  are  there  made  for  the  instruction 
to  be  given  in  each  of  the  five  departments,  will  notice 
with  satisfaction  and  astonishment,  how  enlarged  were 
the  views  of  the  Founders  in  regard  to  a  theological  educa- 
tion, and  what  a  boundless  field  of  sacred  science  they 
opened,  before  the  Professors  and  students.  Those  good 
men  intended  that  all  their  provisions  for  the  advancement 
of  knowledge  should  turn  to  the  support  and  propagation 
of  our  holy  religion.  But  was  it  their  object  to  establish 
an  Institution  which  should  introduce  changes  into  that 
theology  of  the  Puritans  which  they  believed  to  be  taught 
in  the  word  of  God  ? — an  Institution  which  should  re-model 
the  doctrines  of  Calvinism  as  set  forth  in  the  Shorter  Cat- 
echism, and  bring  it  out  in  a  new  and  improved  form  for 
the  use  of  the  churches?  An  answer  to  this  inquiry  will 
be  found  in  the  documents  which  were  written  and  pub- 
lished by  the  founders  with  their  names  and  seals  affixed. 

Turn  then  again  to  the  llth,  12th,  and  13th  Articles  of 
the  Constitution.  Here  the  Founders  ordain  that  "every 
Professor  in  the  Seminary  "  shall  be  of  sound  and  orthodox 


VARIOUS    QUESTIONS    ANSWERED.  359 

principles  in  divinity  according  to  the  Shorter  Catechism;  that 
he  shall  make  and  subscribe  a  declaration  of  his  belief  in 
the  doctrines  of  the  Catechism,  and  shall  repeat  that  declara- 
tion every  five  years;  and  that  if  he  does  not  conform  to 
this  standard,  or  if  he  embraces  any  of  the  peculiar  prin- 
ciples of  Arians,  Pelagians,  Antinomians,  etc.,  or  any  other 
errors  ancient  or  modern,  he  shall  be  removed  from  office. 
This  provision  is  express  and  unequivocal,  and  is  to  con- 
tinue in  force  as  long  as  the  Seminary  shall  exist.  Accord- 
ing to  this  unalterable  provision,  one  and  the  same  system 
of  theology  is  to  be  taught  in  the  Seminary  from  generation 
to  generation  in  all  future  time.  If  this  Seminary  shall  re- 
main till  the  Millennium  and  through  the  Millennium,  the 
Catechism,  which  was  framed  by  the  Westminster  Assembly 
of  divines  two  hundred  years  ago,  and  which  has  been  ap- 
proved and  taught,  and  so  highly,  prized  by  the  Puritans  in 
ages  past — the  very  same  Catechism  unchanged  and  un- 
modified, with  the  Associate  Creed  added  to  it,  is  to  be  the 
doctrinal  standard  of  every  Professor  in  this  Seminary.  So 
the  Founders  have  settled  it  by  their  Constitution  and  the 
Trustees  by  their  Laws.  And  who  can  question  the  pro- 
priety of  all  this  ?  The  Founders  regarded  the  tvord  of  God 
as  the  immutable  and  perpetual  standard  of  doctrine,  and  re- 
quired the  Professors  to  conform  to  it.  And  with  the  same 
object  in  view,  they  required  the  Professors  to  conform  to 
that  symbol  which  in  their  sober  and  decided  opinion,  was 
derived  from  the  word  of  God,  and  entirely  agrees  with  it; 
and  which  has  been  uniformly  the  Creed  of  the  Reformed 
churches.  It  is  true  that  the  Founders  of  the  Seminary  re- 
served to  themselves  the  right  to  make  any  additional  regu- 
lations or  to  alter  any  rule  prescribed  in  their  Constitution. 
But  the  only  addition  or  change  they  afterwards  made  was 
to  add  the  Associate  Creed  to  the  Shorter  Catechism. 

The  Associate  Founders  were,  if  possible,  still  more  re- 
solved to  stereotype  the  Theology  to  be  taught  in  the  Sem- 
inary, and  to  shut  the  door  against  all  innovations  and 


360       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

changes.  Mark  the  emphatic  language  they  use  in  the 
27th  Article  of  their  Statutes:  "It  is  strictly  and  solemnly 
enjoined  and  left  in  sacred  charge,  that  every  article  of  the 
above  said  Creed  shall  forever  remain  entirely  and  identi- 
cally the  same,  without  the  least  alteration,  addition,  or 
diminution." — Whatever  innovations  then  may  be  made 
in  theology  among  the  ministers  of  the  gospel  in  New  En- 
gland or  in  other  States,  or  in  Great  Britain,  France  or 
Germany,  there  cannot  consistently  be  any  innovations  here. 
Every  Professor  must  adhere  to  the  same  standard — must 
conform  to  the  Catechism  and  the  Associate  Creed.  "  He 
is  at  liberty,"  as  Professor  Stuart  says  in  the  passage  already 
cited, — "  at  fall  liberty  to  change  his  opinions,  and  to  dis- 
sent from  the  creed.  But  in  case  he  does  this,  he  cannot 
consistently  be  retained  in  office."  The  Founders  did  noth- 
ing to  interfere  with  the  rights  of  conscience  or  to  abridge 
free  inquiry.  But  they  gave  their  property,  as  they  had  a 
right  to  do,  to  found  an  Institution,  where  one,  and  only 
one  kind  of  theology  should  be  taught.  This  yoke — if  any 
one  calls  it  a  yoke — they  put  upon  every  Professor.  And 
if  a  Professor  is  what  he  is  required  to  be,  "a  consistent 
Calvinist,"  and  does,  ex  animo,  believe  and  hold  the  doctrines 
of  the  united  confession  of  faith,  the  yoke  will  be  pleasant 
and  easy,  and  he  will  forget  that  he  has  any  yoke  upon 
him, — that  he  has  any  standard  of  doctrine  but  his  own 
understanding  and  heart,  and  the  unchangeable  word  of 
God. 

It  is  no  part  of  my  present  purpose  to  argue  the  question, 
whether  the  Founders  acted  wisely  in  appointing  a  perma- 
nent and  unalterable  standard  for  the  Professors  in  this 
Seminary,  and  for  the  Visitors  also.  I  shall  however  offer 
the  following  remarks: — 

1.  If  the  Founders  appointed  any  Confession  of  Faith, 
they  could  not  consistently  do  otherwise,  than  to  appoint 
one  which  agreed  with  their  own  convictions.  As  they 
were  all  Protestants  and  Pedo-Baptists  and  Calvinists,  their 


VARIOUS    QUESTIONS    ANSWERED.  361 

honesty  and  piety  required  them  to  appoint  a   Protestant, 
Pedo-Baptist  and  Calvinistic  Confession  of  Faith. 

2.  If  they  had  given  a  doctrinal   standard  and  yet  left 
it  open  to  alterations,  they  must  have  authorized  some  man 
or  some  body  of  men  to  make  alterations.     Now  what  would 
be  the  value  of  a  Confession  of  Faith,  if  it  were  left  to  each 
of  the  Professors,  or  to  all  of  them  together,  or  to  the  Trus- 
tees or  Visitors,  to  make  such  changes  as  they  should  deem 
proper? 

3.  All  who  verily  believe  that  the  doctrines  of  the  Cate- 
chism and  Creed,  are  the  immutable  truths  of  God's  word, 
must  rejoice  that  the  Seminary  is  to  be  forever  devoted  to 
the  defence  of  those  doctrines.     And  every  Professor  in  the 
Seminary  truly  embracing  those  doctrines,  must  feel  it  to  be 
a  pleasure  as  well  as  a  duty,  to  teach  them  to  his  pupils,  and 
to  propagate  them  through  the  churches. 

But  whether  it  were  wise  or  unwise,  such  was  the  will  of 
the  Founders,  and  such  must  be  the  theology  taught  and  de- 
fended in  this  their  Seminary.  For  they  gave  of  their  sub- 
istaiice  to  found  the  Institution,  on  "the  express  conditions, 
that  the  Institution  be  accepted  by  the  Trustees  of  Phillips 
Academy,  and  be  forever  conducted  and  governed  by  them 
and  their  successors,  in  conformity  with  the  general  princi- 
ples and  regulations  which  they  adopted  and  ratified  in 
their  Constitution."  1 

But  if  a  Professor  cannot,  ex  ammo,  agree  to  every  part 
of  the  Catechism  and  Additional  Creed,  may  he  not  adopt  it 
for  substance?  I  answer:  he  may  adopt  it  in  this  manner,  if 
the  Founders  have  so  provided,  but  not  otherwise.  Search 
then  the  Constitution  and  Statutes  of  the  Seminary,  and  see 
whether  they  contain  any  thing  which  would  allow  such  a 
proceeding  as  this.  And  consider  too  whether  allowing  such 
a  proceeding  on  the  part  of  the  Professors  would  not  open 
the  door  for  such  departures  from  the  appointed  standard  as 
would  render  null  and  void  the  multiplied  precautions. of  the 
1  See  Constitution,  Introductory  part. 


362       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

Founders  and  defeat  the  great  object  to  which  their  liberal 
donations  were  consecrated. 

But  suppose  the  time  should  come,  when  no  man  could  be  found 
who,  besides  possessing  the  other  necessary  qualifications, 
would  be  willing  to  subscribe  to  the  doctrinal  standard  appointed 
by  the  Founders,  taken  without  any  exceptions  in  its  true  and 
obvious  sense.  What  should  be  done  ?  Without  hesitation  I 
reply  that  the  Guardians  of  the  Institution,  rather  than  coun- 
tenance any  deviations  from  the  Creed,  or  any  violation  of 
the  Statutes,  should  suspend  the  operation  of  the  Seminary. 
The  principle  of  public  justice  and  official  fidelity  is  far  more 
important  than  any  good  which  could  be  accomplished  by  an 
unlawful  use  of  charity  funds. 

The  subject  now  before  us  involves  the  most  important  and 
sacred  interests.  It  involves  the  question  whether  full  confi- 
dence may  be  placed  in  those  who  undertake  the  care  of 
funds  devoted  to  benevolent  "purposes  and  who  are  bound  to 
use  them  according  to  the  will  of  the  Donors.  I  need  not 
dwell  upon  what  the  Corporation  of  Harvard  College  did 
almost  fifty  years  ago  in  reference  to  the  Hollis  Professor,  nor 
upon  the  natural  consequences  of  such  a  proceeding.  I  shall 
only  say,  that  a  pious  man  who  had  by  Will  given  his  estate 
to  that  college,  with  particular  directions  how  the  large  fund  he 
thus  bequeathed  should  be  used,  was  immediately  alarmed,  and 
led  to  withdraw  his  legacy,  amounting  to  more  than  one  hundred 
thousand  dollars,  and  dispose  of  it  in  a  manner  which  he  thought 
would  be  more  likely  to  accomplish  his  benevolent  object. 

The  Founders  of  this  Seminary  had  witnessed  with  pain  the 
want  of  fidelity  relative  to  a  public  trust  in  the  instance  above 
referred  to ;  and  they  did  more  than  is  known  to  have  been  done 
in  any  other  instance  to  surround  their  Institution  with  power- 
ful safeguards,  so  as  to  prevent  all  perversion  or  avoidance 
of  their  true  design.  Now  if,  notwithstanding  all  their  watch- 
fulness, and  forethought,  and  all  their  provisions  for  the  safety 
of  their  Institution,  their  statutes  should  be  neglected,  and 
their  great  object  fail  of  being  accomplished;  how  pernicious 


VARIOUS    QUESTIONS    ANSWERED.  363 

must  be  the  consequence?  How  must  it  undermine  the  con- 
fidence of  the  public  in  those  who  are  intrusted  with  the  care 
of  literary  and  religious  institutions  and  thus  restrain  men 
of  wealth  and  charity  from  those  liberal  contributions  for  the 
good  of  their  fellowmen  to  which  their  hearts  would  other- 
wise prompt  them? 

The  supposition  I  have  made  is,  however,  an  extreme  one, 
and  has  been  introduced  merely  to  give  testimony  to  the 
paramount  importance  of  strict  fidelity  in  fulfilling  a  solemn 
promise  and  in  executing  a  weighty  public  trust.  Let  this 
principle  of  fidelity  be  firmly  maintained  and  carried  out  in 
practice,  whatever  may  be  the  present  consequences.  But  it 
is  confidently  believed  that  the  Catechism  and  Creed  contain 
those  great  doctrines  of  revelation,  which,  as  they  have  been 
received  by  the  true  church  of  Christ,  in  all  past  ages,  will 
be  received  by  the  followers  of  Christ  in  all  future  time,  and 
that  with  more  and  more  undoubting  faith  as  knowledge  and 
holiness  shall  increase. 

But  suppose  a  Professor,  after  a  time,  entertains  some 
opinions  which  he  knows  to  be  at  variance  with  the  united 
Confession  of  Faith,  so  that,  as  a  conscientious  man,  he  cannot 
directly  and  on  his  own  responsibility,  repeat  it  as  required 
by  the  Constitution  and  Statutes,  and  yet  agrees  for  the  most 
part,  or  for  substance  with  the  appointed  symbol,  and  is  desirous 
of  retaining  his  office;  ivhat  shall  he  do  when  he  is  called  upon  to 
repeat  the  Creed  ?  As  he  cannot  now,  ex  animo,  give  his  as- 
sent to  the  Confession  of  Faith  in  the  sense  evidently  ex- 
pressed by  the  words  employed;  shall  he  state  what  his 
opinions  now  are,  and  in  what  sense  he  is  willing  to  repeat 
his  assent  to  the  Confession  of  Faith,  (it  being  a  sense  differ- 
ent from  that  which  he  knows  is  naturally  conveyed  by  the 
language  of  the  Confession  of  Faith,)  and  then  refer  it  to  the 
Trustees  to  determine  whether  he  shall  repeat  it  in  the  sense 
proposed,  or  not?  This  question  ought  not  to  be  overlooked, 
as  it  has  actually  occurred,  and  so  properly  belongs  to  the 
history  of  the  Seminary. 


364      HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

Now  it  is  evident  that  a  proceeding  like  that  above  de- 
scribed, would  be  liable  to  very  serious  objections.  It  would 
be  a  palpable  neglect  and  violation  of  all  the  articles  of  the 
Constitution  and  Statutes  which  relate  to  the  subject.  Ac- 
cording to  those  articles,  the  Professor  is  to  declare  his  belief 
in  the  very  doctrines,  contained  in  the  Confession  of  Faith 
appointed  by  the  Founders,  and  in  the  very  words  there  used. 
The  obligation  lies  upon  the  Professor  himself.  And  it  is  to  be 
presumed  that  he  is  as  capable  of  understanding  the  true 
meaning  of  this  Confession  of  Faith  as  the  Trustees.  And 
he  himself  is  to  repeat  his  assent  to  the  doctrines  which  are 
expressed  in  this  Confession.  To  do  this  is  his  own  indi- 
vidual duty,  and  cannot  be  transferred  to  others.  The  ques- 
tions proper  for  him  are  such  as  these.  What  is  the  true  sense 
of  the  Confession  of  Faith  appointed  by  the  Founders  ?  And  do 
/,  ex  aiiimo,  believe  the  doctrines  which  the  words  of  each  and 
every  article  express?  The  position  which  he  is  to  take  is  not 
tuis, — that  he  is  willing  to  repeat  his  assent  to  the  appointed 
Confession  of  Faith,  if  it  may  be  allowed  to  mean,  or  if  he  may 
be  allowed  to  understand  it,  so  and  so.  As  an  honest  man  he 
must  satisfy  himself  what  the  words  of  the  Confession  really 
do  mean,  riot  what  he  would  desire  them  to  mean.  And  he 
must  assent  to  the  symbol  according  to  its  real,  honest  inter- 
pretation, not  according  to  a  forced  interpretation,  nor  ac- 
cording to  an  interpretation  allowed  by  others  from  motives 
of  friendship,  expediency  or  policy.  When  the  Founders  or- 
dained "that  every  article  of  the  Creed  shall  forever  remain 
entirely  and  identically  the  same  without  the  least  alteration, 
addition  or  diminution;"  they  unquestionably  intended  it 
should  remain  without  alteration  not  only  in  words  but  in 
sense.  For  of  what  consequence  would  it  be  to  retain  the 
same  words  without  retaining  the  sense  of  the  doctrines  ex- 
pressed by  them  ?  I  say  the  obligation  to  repeat  his  belief 
belongs  to  him  personally,  and  cannot  be  transferred  to 
others. 

But  suppose  the  Professor  in  such  a  case  has  the  consent 


VARIOUS    QUESTIONS    ANSWERED.  365 

of  the  Trustees,  that  he  shall  repeat  the  words,  that  "  there 
are  three  persons  in  the  Godhead"  not  in  the  common  Trinita- 
rian sense,  but  in  the  Arian  or  Sabellian  sense;  and  suppose 
when  he  repeats  his  belief  in  the  doctrine  of  Election,  he  has 
the  consent  of  the  Trustees  that  he  shall  repeat  it  in  the 
Arminian  sense;  and  suppose  when  he  repeats  the  doctrine 
of  man's  native  state,  he  repeats  it,  with  the  consent  of  the 
Trustees,  in  the  Pelagian  or  Unitarian  sense ; — would  the  Pro- 
fessor in  this  way  conform  to  the  requisition  of  the  Founders? 
And  if  the  Trustees  should  give  such  a  consent,  would  they 
fulfil  their  obligation  faithfully  to  execute  the  provisions  of 
the  Constitution  and  Statutes?  And  what  in  such  a  case 
would  be  the  duty  of  the  Visitors  ?  The  Founders  on  both 
sides  say — "  that  they  may  effectually  guard  the  Seminary  in  all 
future  time,  against  all  perversion,  or  the  smallest  avoidance  of 
their  true  design,  as  expressed  in  their  Statutes,  THEY  constitute 
a  Board  of  Visitors,  to  be,  as  in  their  place  and  stead,  the  Guard- 
ians,  Overseers,  and  Protectors  of  the  Seminary; — whose  duty, 
among  other  things  shall  be,  to  declare  void,  all  rules  and  reg- 
ulations, made  by  the  Trustees,  ivhich  may  be  inconsistent  with 
the.  Statutes;  and  in  general  to  see  that  the  true  intentions  of  the 
Founders,  as  expressed  in  their  Statutes,  be  faithfully  executed." 
Such  is  the  duty  required  of  the  Visitors. 

Such  a  proceeding  as  that  above  described  would  be 
virtually  making  a  new  doctrinal  standard.  So  far  as  the  sup- 
posed explanation  of  the  Professor  goes,  and  is  acted  upon, 
it  would  be  substituting  that  explanation  for  the  real  and 
obvious  sense  of  the  Confession  of  Faith.  To  all  intents  and 
purposes  it  would  be  the  same,  as  if  the  explanation  should 
be  written  down  in  the  Confession,  in  place  of  the  article 
explained,  and  the  Confession  should  be  repeated  in  this 
altered  form.  And  if  one  part  of  it  might  be  so  altered, 
other  parts  might.  According  to  this  principle  a  Professor, 
with  the  consent  of  the  Trustees,  might  introduce  a  new 
standard — new  in  sense,  and  with  equal  propriety  new  in 
words.  And  then,  what  would  become  of  the  provisions  of 


366       HISTORY  OF  ANDOVER   THEOLOGICAL   SEMINARY. 

the  Founders  respecting  a  doctrinal  standard  ?  And  what 
would  become  of  the  solemn  promise  of  the  Professor,  that 
he  will  maintain  and  inculcate  the  Christian  Faith  as  ex- 
pressed in  the  Catechism  and  the  Associate  Creed  in  opposi- 
tion to  the  various  erroneous  sects  referred  to  ? 

As  to  the  propriety  of  written  or  oral  explanations  of  the 
Confession  of  Faith  by  a  Professor  at  the  time  of  his  repeating 
it,  the  following  remarks  were  made  by  Dr.  Porter,  President 
of  the  Institution,  in  a.communication  to  the  Trustees,  not 
long  before  his  death.  He  says : — 

"  In  the  first  place,  I  doubt  whether  explanations  of  any 
sort  are  expedient  on  these  occasions.  Should  such  a  prac- 
tice be  adopted,  it  must  draw  the  Trustees  into  frequent  dis- 
cussions, as  to  the  meaning  of  the  Founders;  and  it  is  easy 
to  suppose  a  case  in  which  circumstances  might  exist,  (such 
as  sympathy  with  a  Professor,  or  prejudice  against  him,) 
which  would  create  serious  division  of  sentiment  in  the 
Board.  On  a  regular  impeachment  of  a  Professor  for  heresy, 
the  Constitutional  expounders  of  the  Creed  must  certainly 
declare  their  views  of  its  meaning;  but  no  good  I  think  can 
result  from  their  being  often  drawn  into  discussions  with  a 
Professor  on  this  subject.  Should  each  Professor,  whenever 
he  repeats^  the  Creed,  give  a  written  commentary,  if  ad- 
mitted by  the  Trustees,  it  must  thenceforward  be  regarded 
as  modifying  the  Creed,  so  far  as  that  Professor  is  concerned ; 
and  thus  the  standard  would  be  different  by  which  the  faith 
of  different  men  is  to  be  tried. 

"In  the  second  place,  the  inexpediency  of  such  explanations 
is  still  more  apparent,  if  they  are  merely  verbal  What  is 
spoken  into  the  air  is  liable  to  be  misapprehended,  or  to  be 
forgotten,  or  to  be  remembered  variously  by  the  speaker  and 
the  hearers.  In  recollection,  it  always  claims  a  special  indul- 
gence as  to  latitude  of  construction.  Of  course  if  verbal  ex- 
planations of  the  sense  in  which  the  Professors  understand 
the  Creed,  become  common,  at  the  solemnity  of  repeating  it, 
they  may  proceed  under  an  implicit  sanction  of  the  Trustees, 


SUBSCRIPTION    TO   UNITED   CONFESSION   OF   FAITH.      367 

in  a  gradual  divergence  from  the  Creed,  and  from  each  other, 
till  among  all  these  explanations,  the  Creed  ceases  to  possess 
any  validity  as  a  standard." 

Now  if  according  to  these  judicious  observations  of  Dr. 
Porter,  a  Professor  when  he  is  called  to  repeat  the  Creed  can- 
not properly  introduce  explanations  and  adopt  them  as  ex- 
pressive of  his  faith,  even  when  his  explanations  convey  what 
he  honestly  understands  to  be  the  real  meaning  of  the  Creed; 
much  less  can  he  be  allowed  to  introduce  an  explanation  con- 
taining a  doctrine  which,  in  his  own  opinion,  is  different  from 
the  true  meaning  of  the  Creed,  and  to  adopt  such  an  explana- 
tion, instead  of  the  plain  language  of  the  Creed  as  expressive 
of  his  belief. — And  if  the  mere  utterance,  at  the  time  referred 
to,  of  an  opinion,  which  differs  from  the  appointed  standard, 
is  improper,  how  much  more  so  must  it  be,  for  him  to  teach 
and  defend  such  an  opinion  in  the  regular  course  of  his  official 
labors. 


XII. 


USAGE    WITH    REGARD    TO    SUBSCRIPTION    TO    UNITED    CONFES- 
f  SIGN    OF    FAITH. 

A  difficulty  in  the  way  of  supposing  that  the  doctrinal 
standard  of  the  Professors  includes  the  Catechism  together 
with  the  Associate  Creed,  has  been  thought  to  arise  from  past 
usage.  On  this  I  remark: 

1.  That  even  if  the  usage  had  been  uniform  from  the  'begin- 
ning, it  would  not  follow  that  such  usage  had  been  right. 
It  would  indeed  seem  improbable  that  the  Guardians  and 
Officers  of  the  Seminary  should  all  commit  a  mistake  on  this 
subject.  Still  no  one  can  doubt  their  liability  to  such  a  mis- 
take. Amid  the  endless  variety  of  their  duties  and  cares,  it 
is  very  supposable  that  they  may  have  overlooked  and  un- 


368       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

intentionally  disregarded  some  of  the  multiplied  provisions 
of  the  Constitution  and  Statutes. 

It  is  an  acknowledged  fact  that  they  did  overlook  one 
important  provision  of  the  Founders  in  regard  to  the  present 
subject,  that  is,  the  duty  of  the  Abbot  Professor  to  subscribe 
the  Catechism,  and  the  Associate  Creed  united.  It  was  in- 
deed strange,  and  not  easily  accounted  for,  that  at  the  open- 
ing of  the  Seminary,  the  Trustees,  the  Visitors,  and  the 
Abbot  Professor  entirely  neglected  and  forgot  what  was 
expressly  required  by  the  very  First  Article  of  the  Addi- 
tional Statutes  which  made  a  part  of  the  Constitution  of  the 
Seminary.  But  this  strange  mistake  was  committed;  and  it 
was  no  more  strange  that  the  requirement  of  the  same 
article  of  the  Constitution  relative  to  the  other  Professors 
was  also  neglected  and  forgotten.  For  that  article  required 
no  more  of  the  Abbot  Professor  than  of  the  other  Professors. 
But  did  the  Trustees  ever  consider  the  fact  that  the  Abbot 
Professor  did  not  at  first  take  the  Catechism  in  connection 
with  the  Associate  Creed,  as  proving  that  the  article  did  not 
require  him  to  do  it?  No.  They  afterwards  saw  it  to  be  a 
mistake;  and  in  1813  they  corrected  it.  It  was  very  strange 
that  they  suffered  the  other  part  of  the  mistake  to  be  repeated, 
and  to  continue  uncorrected  till  1826.  But  they  were  then 
convinced  of  the  error,  and  unanimously  corrected  it.  Now 
after  all  this  experience  of  the  fallibility  of  men  possessed  of 
such  intelligence  and  uprightness,  who  can  think  of  inferring 
the  non-existence  of  a  law  from  its  having  been  overlooked ; 
or  the  non-existence  of  a  duty  from  its  having  been  omitted, 
even  though  it  may  have  been  omitted  ever  so  uniformly. 
But, 

2.  The  practice,  in  the  case  before  us,  has  not  been  uni- 
form,, but  various,  as  the  following  statements  clearly  show. 

Under  the  pressure  of  business  and  anxieties  at  the  open- 
ing of  the  Seminary,  the  1st  Article  of  the  Additional  Statutes 
was  not  attended  to;  but  at  the  Annual  Meeting  of  the  Board 
of  Trustees  in  Sept.  2d,  1813,  Dr.  Pearson  and  Dr.  Holmes 


SUBSCRIPTION    TO    UNITED   CONFESSION   OF   FAITH.      369 

were  chosen  as  a  committee  to  consider  and  report  in  what 
manner  the  Professor  of  Christian  Theology  should  repeat  the 
Creed  and  declaration  required  by  the  Statutes.  That  com- 
mittee made  the  following  report  which  was  accepted,  namely, 

"That  the  Professor  of  Christain  Theology  be  requested 
to  attend  at  the  Board  at  10  o'clock  A.  M.  this  day,  to  repeat 
the  declaration  of  his  faith  and  renew  the  promises  relative 
to  the  faithful  performance  of  the  duties  of  his  office  required 
by  the  13th  Article  of  the  Constitution  of  the  Seminary;  and  that 
when  the  Professor  shall  appear  at  the  Board  the  President 
read  to  him  the  Article  of  the  Constitution,  requiring  such 
repetition,  and  deliver  to  him  the  Book  of  Statutes,  pointing 
to  him  the  1st  Article  of  the  Additional  Statutes  which  the 
Professor  shall  distinctly  repeat;  and  that  at  the  close  of  the 
repetition  the  President  ask  the  Professor  whether  he  do 
voluntarily  assent  and  consent  to  the  Creed  and  declaration 
by  him  now  solemnly  repeated." 

It  will  be  seen  that  the  12th  and  13th  Articles  of  the 
Constitution  arid  the  1st  Article  of  the  Additional  Statutes  re- 
lated alike  to  every  Professor  in  the  Seminary,  and  applied 
to  the  Professor  of  Christian  Theology,  not  as  a  Professor 
on  the  Abbot  Foundation,  but  as  a  Professor  in  the  Seminary. 
It  is  plain  from  the  articles  themselves  referred  to,  that 
neither  of  them  was  provided  for  the  Professor  on  the  Abbot 
Foundation  more  than  for  every  Professor  in  the  Institution. 

From  September  2,  1813,  the  Professor  of  Christian  The- 
ology at  every  successive  period  of  five  years  uniformly  re- 
peated the  declaration  and  Creed  agreeably  to  the  1st  Article 
of  the  Additional  Statutes.  But  the  other  Professors  contin- 
ued until  1826  to  repeat  the  Associate  Creed  alone. 

But  in  Sept.  1824,  the  Trustees  chose  a  committee,  namely, 
Samuel  Hubbard,  Samuel  Farrar,  and  Dr.  Dana,  "to  inquire 
whether  the  declaration  of  faith  by  the  Professors  on  the 
Associate  Foundation  be  in  conformity  with  the  12th  and 
13th  Articles  of  the  Constitution  and  the  2d  Article  of  the 
Associate  Statutes." 


370       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

The  inquiry  to  be  made  relating  as  it  did  to  the  Associate 
Professors  only,  implied  two  things;  1.  That  the  declaration 
of  faith  by  the  Abbot  Professor  had  been  conformed  to  the 
articles  of  the  Constitution  referred  to.  2.  It  implied  that 
those  articles  of  the  Constitution  were  considered  as  binding 
upon  all  the  Professors  in  the  Seminary,  and  that  the  Pro- 
fessors on  the  Associate  Foundation,  as  well  as  the  Abbot 
Professor,  ought  to  conform  to  them. 

In  Sept.  27,  1826,  all  the  above  named  committee  being 
present,  it  was  voted  "  that  in  the  opinion  of  the  Board,  the 
Constitution  of  the  Theological  Seminary  as  expressed  in  the 
Original  and  Additional  Statutes,  requires  that  the  declaration 
made  and  subscribed  by  every  Professor  in  the  Seminary,  shall 
be  in  the  following  terms,  viz: — 

I Professor do  make  solemn  declaration  of  my  faith 

in  divine  revelation  and  in  the  fundamental  and  distinguish- 
ing doctrines  of  the  gospel  of  Christ  as  summarily  expressed 
in  the  Westminster  Assembly's  Shorter  Catechism,  and  as 
more  particularly  expressed  in  the  following  Creed,  that  is, 
the  Associate  Creed.  (According  to  Article  1st  of  the  Ad- 
ditional Statutes.) 

In  this  manner  all  the  Professors  repeated  the  declaration 
and  Creed  from  Sept.  1826  to  Sept.  1842.  But  although 
during  that  period  three  editions  of  the  Laws  of  the  Insti- 
tution were  prepared  and  published,  all  of  which  undertook 
to  give  the  exact  form  of  the  Confession  of  Faith  appointed 
for  the  Professors;  yet  neither  of  them  contained  the  form 
which  was  found  in  the  Constitution  and  Additional  Statutes, 
and  which  the  Trustees  themselves,  by  their  vote  above 
cited,  made  binding  upon  all  the  Professors. 

It  has  been  said  that  at  the  above  mentioned  meeting  in 
1826  the  Trustees  acted  "  without  much  delay  and  without 
much  consideration,"  but  with  what  reason  can  this  be  said 
when  it  is  remembered,  that  the  Trustees  in  Sept.  1824  had 
taken  the  subject  in  hand  and  committed  it  to  an  able  com- 
mittee; and  when  it  is  remembered  that  the  Trustees  and 


SUBSCRIPTION   TO   UNITED   CONFESSION   OF   FAITH.      371 

their  committee  had  held  the  subject  under  consideration  for 
two  years,  and  after  all  this  unanimously  settled  the  matter 
as  above  related. 

The  vote  of  the  Trustees  in  Sept.  1826  requiring  every 
Professor  in  the  Seminary  to  subscribe  and  repeat  the  united 
Confession  of  Faith,  continued  in  force  until  Sept.  1842.  At 
that  time  the  Trustees  took  another  position,  and  resolved 
that  the  vote  of  1826  be  recinded  so  far  as  relates  to  the 
Professors  on  the  Associate  Foundation,  so  that  those  Pro- 
fessors should  take  only  the  Associate  Creed.  The  Trustees 
thus  restored  the  early  practice  of  the  Associate  Professors 
which  in  1826,  after  two  years  consideration,  they  had  de- 
cided was  not  conformed  to  the  Constitution. 

The  Trustees  have  thus  shown,  that  they  do  not  consider 
themselves  to  be  bound  by  any  previous  practice, — that 
they  are  not  governed  by  precedents;  but  that  they  keep 
the  door  always  open  for  a  fresh  inquiry  after  the  real 
meaning  of  the  Constitution  and  Statutes.  And  if  the 
Guardians  of  the  Seminary  shall  hereafter,  on  careful  in- 
quiry, be  satisfied,  that  the  1st  Article  of  the  Additional 
Statutes  and  the  12th  and  13th  Articles  of  the  Constitution 
are  of  force,  and  that  it  was  the  real  and  authoritative  mean- 
ing of  the  Founders,  as  well  as  their  language,  that  all  the 
Professors  should  make  the  same  declaration  in  regard  to 
the  Catechism  and  Creed ;  they  will  at  once  do  as  they  have 
done  before,  that  is,  will  correct  what  they  apprehend  to  be 
an  oversight  in  their  former  enactments,  and  will  conform 
to  what  will  then  be  their  deliberate  convictions. 

3.  The  mistake  which  occurred  at  the  opening  of  the  Sem- 
inary and  afterwards,  in  regard  to  subscribing  and  repeating 
the  Creed  is,  I  think,  to  be  accounted  for  in  the  following 
way. 

The  Confession  of  Faith,  or  doctrinal  standard  of  the  Pro- 
fessors, as  it  stood  in  the  instruments  executed  by  the  Founders, 
where  it  was  intermixed  with  other  provisions,  was  not  in  a 
convenient  place  to  be  repeated  and  subscribed.  It  was 


372       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

therefore  necessary,  that  it  should  .be  copied  out  from  those 
original  instruments,  and  written  by  itself,  in  a  book  to  which 
the  Professors  could  have  easy  access,  and  where  they  could 
conveniently  subscribe  their  names,  as  the  Founders  required. 
Amos  Blanchard,  Esqr.,  was  employed  by  the  Trustees  to  make 
such  a  copy.  But  in  doing  this,  he  had  recourse  to  the  As- 
sociate Statutes  only,  which  contained  the  Associate  Creed, 
that  Creed  being  in  the  common  and  definite  form  of  a  Con- 
fession of  Faith.  The  Creed,  as  it  was  thus  copied  into  the 
book  of  the  Trustees,  was  exactly  what  was  provided  in  the 
Associate  Statutes,  and  nothing  more — containing  not  the  least 
reference  to  the  well-known  symbol,  which  was  expressly 
appointed  by  the  Founders  of  the  Institution.  The  Associate 
Creed  thus  copied  into  a  book  for  convenient  use  was,  as  we 
have  before  seen,  appointed  by  the  Associate  Founders  for 
the  Associate  Professors,  and  for  them  only.  In  that  copy — I 
repeat  it — not  the  least  notice  was  taken  of  the  provision 
of  the  Constitution  and  Additional  Statutes  respecting  a 
Creed.  That  provision  was  totally  overlooked  and  ignored. 
And  what  is  obvious,  the  Creed,  thus  copied  for  the  use  of 
all  the  Professors,  and  which  has  been  actually  and  properly 
used  by  them  all,  could  have  had  no  bearing  upon  the  Abbot 
Professor,  had  it  not  been  for  that  unnoticed  provision  in  the 
1st  Article  of  the  Additional  Statutes,  ivhicli  joined  it  to  the  Cate- 
chism. This  important  and  final  provision  of  the  Founders, 
on  the  ground  of  which  the  coalition  mainly  rested,  was,  as 
I  have  before  said,  in  no  way  referred  to  in  the  copy  above 
mentioned.  How  this  mistake  happened  to  be  made,  and  Jaow 
it  happened  that  none  of  the  Trustees  discovered  it,  in  reference 
to  the  Abbot  Professor  before  1813  and  in  reference  to  the  As- 
sociate Professors  before  1826,  I  know  not;  but  I  suppose  that 
in  their  multiplied  labors  and  cares  at  that  busy  and  anxious 
period,  they  did  not  turn  their  thoughts  to  the  subject.  This 
being  the  case,  when,  at  the  opening  of  the  Seminary,  the  pre- 
siding officer  called  upon  the  Professors  to  repeat  and  subscribe 
the  Creed,  he  made  use  of  the  Book  of  Records  containing 


SUBSCRIPTION    TO    UNITED   CONFESSION   OF   FAITH.      373 

the  aforesaid  copy  and  presented  it  to  the  Professors  to  be 
repeated  and  subscribed  by  them. 

This  is  a  simple  statement  of  the  facts  in  the  case,  show- 
ing how  the  mistake  was  made  at  the  outset — a  mistake  since 
discovered  and  corrected  in  due  form, — first  in  1813  in  rela- 
tion to  the  Abbot  Professor,  and  then,  in  their  vote  on  the 
subject  in  1826  in  relation  to  the  Associate  Professors — thus 
placing  ail  the  Professors  under  the  obligation  of  the  same 
Confession  of  Faith. 

I  cannot  but  remark  that  if  the  attention  of  Mr.  Blanchard 
had  been  directed  to  the  Additional  Statutes,  as  well  as  the 
Associate  Statutes,  and  had  he  copied  the  Confession  of  JFaith 
to  be  subscribed  and  repeated,  in  conformity  with  the  1st  Ar- 
ticle of  those  Additional  Statutes,  all  would  have  been  correct; 
and  the  Professors,  from  the  beginning,  would  have  given 
their  assent  to  the  Creed  as  required  by  the  provisions  of 
the  Founders  and  Donors  taken  together. 

It  is  remarkable  that  the  very  mistake  which  was  origi- 
nally made  by  Mr.  Blanchard  in  copying  the  Creed,  has  been 
continued  in  the  Laws  of  the  Seminary  as  published  in  1827 
and  1846.  For  although  in  Chapter  III.,  Sect.  4,  and  at  the 
close  of  Sect.  5,  the  Catechism  is  held  up  as  binding  upon 
every  Professor  in  the  Seminary ;  yet  when  in  the  first  part  of 
Sect.  5,  the  Creed  to  be  subscribed  and  repeated  by  all  the 
Professors,  including  the  Abbot  Professor,  is  presented  to 
view,  there  is  no  reference  to  anything  but  the  2d  Article 
of  the  Associate  Statutes.  The  Laws  which  have  been  re- 
peatedly published  by  the  Trustees  as  the  Laws  of  the  Insti 
tution,  and  which  undertake  to  set  forth  the  doctrinal  standard 
of  the  Professors,  have  never  yet  contained  the  complete  Con- 
fession of  Faith  which  it  is  acknowledged  by  all  that  the  Pro- 
fessor of  Christian  Theology  is  required  to  subscribe.  Thus 
it  appears  that  the  only  Creed  inserted  in  the  Laws  as  the 
Creed  to  be  subscribed  and  repeated  by  the  Professor  of  The- 
ology as  well  as  the  other  Professors,  is  just  what  it  would 
have  been,  if  the  express  appointment  of  a  Creed  by  the 


374      HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

Founders  of  the  Seminary,  in  the  unrepealed  12th  and  13th 
Articles  of  their  Constitution  and  1st  Article  of  their  Addi- 
tional Statutes,  had  been  revoked,  or  never  made; — a  matter 
surely  of  sufficient  moment  to  merit  serious  consideration. 

And  it  is  from  an  earnest  desire  for  the  welfare  of  the 
Seminary,  and  with  full  confidence  in  the  upright  and  pious 
intentions  of  its  guardians,  that  I  beg  leave  to  offer  the  follow- 
ing suggestions,  namely: — As  the  Trustees  and  Visitors  from 
an  unquestionable  desire  faithfully  to  discharge  their  duty, 
did  about  ten  years  ago  deem  it  proper  by  their  official  acts 
so  to  modify  the  12th  and  13th  Articles  of  the  Constitution 
and  the  1st  Article  of  the  Additional  Statutes  as  to  limit  the 
application  of  those  articles  to  a  single  Professor,  contrary  to 
the  express  words  and  obvious  meaning  of  said  Articles; — 
may  it  not  be  incumbent  on  them  to  give  the  subject  a  care- 
ful re-examination.  The  authority  with  which  they  were 
invested  by  the  Founders  was  to  administer  the  affairs  of 
the  Seminary  in  conformity  with  the  Constitution  and  Statutes. 
But  are  the  Trustees  or  Visitors  clothed  with  a  discretionary 
power  to  give  to  any  article  of  the  Constitution  or  Stat- 
utes a  sense  less  extensive  than  what  is  expressed  in  the 
words  employed  in  such  article?  While  the  Founders  say 
that  the  articles  shall  apply  to  "  every  Professor  in  the  Semi- 
nary," are  the  Guardians  of  the  Seminary  authorized  to  limit 
the  application  to  the  Abbot  Professor  ? 

It  has  been  said  by  some  that  "in  their  judgment  the 
Founders  of  the  Seminary  embodied  in  the  Associate  Creed 
the  system  of  doctrines  contained  in  the  Assembly's  Cate- 
chism as  understood  by  them  and  as  they  intended  they 
should  be  believed,  professed  and  subscribed  by  their 
Professors." 

In  reply  I  would  say :  examine  the  doings  of  the  Founders 
thoroughly  and  you  will  see  that  there  is  not  the  least  founda- 
tion for  such  a  judgment.  The  fact  is  the  Associate  Creed 
was  not  the  work  of  the  Founders  of  the  Institution.  It  was 
not  framed  by  them,  but  by  the  Associate  Founders  of  Pro- 


SUBSCRIPTION    TO   UNITED   CONFESSION   OF   FAITH.      375 

fessorships  in  the  Institution  previously  established.  All 
that  the  Founders  of  the  Institution  did  in  regard  to  it  was, 
to  appoint  that  every  Professor  shall  subscribe  to  it  in  addi- 
tion to  the  Shorter  Catechism.  They  had  already  fixed  un- 
alterably their  doctrinal  standard.  But  to  induce  the  Asso- 
ciate Donors  to  unite  with  them,  they  took  the  Associate 
Creed  and  added  it  to  their  own,  thus  making  one  common 
and  permanent  standard  for  all  the  Professors. 

Finally,  that  will  be  regarded  by  multitudes  as  a  happy 
day,  when  those  who  are  clothed  with  authority  in  the  Insti- 
tution, shall  give  to  the  doctrinal  standard,  not  only  of  the 
Abbot  Professor  but  of  all  the  Professors,  that  entire  oneness, 
which  is  given  to  it  by  the  last  act  of  the  Founders  of  the 
Seminary  in  the  1st  Article  of  their  Additional  Statutes; — 
which  article,  just  as  it  is,  was  the  basis,  on  which  the  two 
sets  of  Founders  deliberately  formed  a  united  Institution. 

But  of  what  value  would  be  a  symbol  or  Confession  of 
Faith  unless  its  meaning  can  be  clearly  and  satisfactorily 
ascertained?  Here  then  it  will  be  proper  to  inquire  by  what 
means,  and  in  what  way,  the  exact  sense  which  the  Founders 
intended  should  be  put  upon  the  Confession  of  Faith  can  be 
determined. 

I  shall  here  with  perfect  freedom,  give  my  opinion  on  the 
subject,  without  wishing  to  dictate  to  others.  Every  man 
has  the  same  right  which  I  claim  for  myself.  Unprejudiced 
investigation  and  unfettered  discussion  is  the  way  to  discover 
the  truth. 

In  the  first  place,  then,  both  the  Constitution  and  the 
Associate  Statutes  relative  to  the  Confession  of  Faith  were 
written  with  consummate  perspicuity  and  precision ;  so  that 
it  would  appear  impossible  that  any  candid  and  intelligent 
man  should  entertain  a  doubt  as  to  the  meaning  conveyed 
by  the  words.  The  Founders  were  aware  that  vigilance  and 
precaution  were  called  for  in  this  matter.  They  knew  that 
the  overseers  and  Trustees  of  Harvard  College  had  taken  great 
liberty  with  the  Hollis  Professorship ;— that  while  the  Founder 


376       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

had  used  the  word  Orthodox  to  signify  what  should  be  the 
religious  faith  of  his  Professor,  they  had  interpreted  the  word 
not  according  to  its  common  use  and  the  obvious  meaning 
of  the  Founder,  but  according  to  their  own  opinions.  It  was 
from  an  earnest  desire  to  guard  against  any  possible  doubt 
as  to  the  meaning  of  the  words  he  employed,  that  Mr.  Abbot 
in  the  will  he  made  Dec.  1806,  expressed  himself  thus:  "To 
prevent  if  possible,  all  misunderstanding  of  the  true  and  only 
design  of  this  Institution,  and  all  misunderstanding  of  my 
intention  and  meaning  in  these  regulations,  and  all  even  the 
least  prostitution  or  perversion  of  this  bequest,  it  is  hereby 
expressly  declared  to  be  my  will  that  to  the  end  of  time, 
no  man  ever  be  elected  or  continued  a  Professor  on  this  my 
foundation  or  receive  any  part  of  its  income,  who  shall  not 
have  first  approved  himself  and  shall  not  continue  to  approve 
himself  to  the  full  satisfaction  of  the  said  Trustees  a  man 
of  sound  learning,  and  of  sound  and  orthodox  principles  in 
divinity  according  to  my  sense  of  the  terms,  i.  e.,  according 
to  that  form  of  sound  words  or  system  of  evangelical  doctrines, 
drawn  from  the  Scriptures  by  the  Westminster  Assembly 
of  divines,  and  denominated  the  Westminster  Assembly's 
Shorter  Catechism,  which  has  generally  been  received  and 
taught  in  our  New  England  Churches  and  by  Protestant 
Christians  among  us,  deemed  sound  and  orthodox."  Such 
was  Mr.  Abbot's  state  of  mind  when  he  wrote  that  Will; 
and  when  shortly  after  he  wrote  the  llth  and  12th  Articles 
of  the  Constitution  of  the  Seminary. 

Secondly,  In  case  of  any  doubt  in  regard  to  the  just  inter- 
pretation of  this  Confession  of  Faith,  it  is  a  singular  advan- 
tage furnished  by  the  Founders  that  they  took  care  to  place 
the  doctrines  they  intended  to  express  in  contrast  with  the 
various  forms  of  error  which  they  meant  to  exclude.  They  re- 
quire the  doctrines  of  Scripture,  as  set  forth  in  the  Catechism 
and  the  Additional  Creed,  to  be  taught  in  opposition  to  the 
heresies  and  errors  which  they  specify.  If  then  there  should 
ever  be  a  question  respecting  the  sense  of  any  article  of  this 


SUBSCRIPTION    TO   UNITED   CONFESSION   OF  FAITH.      377 

Confession  of  Faith  we  should  have  the  special  advantage 
of  resorting  to  this  contrast,  in  which  case  our  only  inquiry 
would  be,  what  interpretation  of  the  article  would  place  it  in 
plain  opposition  to  the  errors  which  are  named. 

The  advantage  of  this  test  of  doctrine  is  very  obvious. 
Take  for  example  the  article  which  teaches  that  "  there  are 
three  persons  in  the  Godhead,"  and  suppose  a  doubt  arises 
as  to  the  sense  of  the  words.  We  then  inquire  what  is  the 
peculiar  tenet  of  the  Socinians,  the  Arians  and  the  Sabellians 
respecting  the  Trinity ;  and  we  conclude  that  to  be  the  right 
sense  of  the  article  which  is  opposed  to  each  of  these  tenets 
Accordingly  we  cannot  hold  that  the  Father  is  God,  exclusive 
of  the  Son  and  Holy  Spirit,  as  the  Socinians  hold;  nor  that 
the  Son  is  the  highest  of  created  beings  and  is  possessed  of 
Divine  perfection,  derived  from  the  Father,  and  is  therefore 
called  God  and  entitled  to  Divine  honors,  as  the  Arians  hold; 
nor  yet  that  the  Trinity  is  a  trinity  of  offices  or  manifestations 
and  not  of  Divine  persons  as  the  Sabellians  hold.  Thus  from 
the  contrast  authorized  by  the  Founders  we  are  confirmed  in 
the  conclusion  that  the  common  orthodox  doctrine  of  the 
Trinity,  is  the  doctrine  meant  to  be  asserted  in  the  Creed. 

Take  the  doctrine  of  Election  and  Divine  Decrees.  We 
inquire,  not  what  the  erroneous  sects  mentioned  have  held 
in  common  with  Calvinists,  but  what  have  been  their 
peculiar  opinions — the  opinions  they  have  held  in  contradis- 
tinction to  Calvinists;  and  we  are  to  hold  the  doctrine  in 
opposition  to  these  peculiar  opinions — the  opinions  par- 
ticularly of  Arminians  and  Antinomians. 

Take  another  example,  the  doctrine  of  Original  Sin,  or 
the  native  character  and  state  of  man.  The  Catechism 
teaches,  that  "the  sinfulness  of  that  estate  into  which  man 
fell  consists  in  the  guilt  of  Adam's  first  sin.  the  want  of 
original  righteousness,  and  the  corruption  of  his  whole  nature 
which  is  commonly  called  original  sin,  together  with  all 
actual  transgressions  which  proceed  from  it."  And  the 
Associate  Creed  teaches,  that  in  consequence  of  Adam's  first 


378       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

sin  "every  man  is  by  nature  personally  depraved."  Now 
every  Professor  promises  to  teach  and  inculcate  the  doctrine 
thus  stated,  in  opposition  to  Pelagians.  What  then  do  the 
Pelagians  hold?  What  are  the  opinions  which  are  peculiar 
to  them,  and  which  distinguish  them  from  the  Orthodox  ? 
Mosheim  says,  "  They  looked  upon  the  doctrines  which 
were  commonly  received  concerning  the  original  corruption  of 
human  nature,  and  the  necessity  of  Divine  grace  to  enlighten  the 
understanding  and  purify  the  heart,  as  prejudicial  to  the  pro- 
gress of  holiness  and  virtue;  they  maintained  that  the 
sins  of  our  first  parents  were  imputed  to  them  alone,  and  not 
to  their  posterity;  that  we  derive  no  corruption  from  their  fall, 
but  are  born  pure  and  unspotted; — that  mankind  are  there- 
fore capable  of  repentance  and  amendment,  and  of  arriving 
at  the  highest  degrees  of  piety  and  virtue  by  the  use  of  their 
own  faculties  and  poivers; — that  inward  preventing  grace  is  not 
necessary  to  form  in  the  soul  the  first  beginnings  of  true  re- 
pentance and  amendment;  that  every  one  is  capable  of  pro- 
ducing these  by  the  mere  power  of  his  natural  faculties." 
Pelagius  says,  "  In  our  birth  we  are  equally  devoid  of  virtue 
and  vice."  Julian,  who  belongs  to  the  school  of  Pelagius, 
held  that  "  human  nature  at  the  time  of  our  being  born,  is 
rich  in  the  gift  of  innocence,  and  that  nobody  is  born  with 
sin."  Pelagius  himself  says,  "  It  is  disputed  concerning  na- 
ture, whether  it  is  debilitated  or  deteriorated  by  sin.  And 
here,  in  rny  opinion,  the  first  inquiry  ought  to  be,  What  is 
sin  ? — It  is  not  a  thing,  not  an  existence,  not  a  body,  nor 
anything  else — but  an  act."  Dr.  John  Taylor  of  Norwich, 
the  most  able  advocate  of  the  Pelagian  doctrine  in  modern 
times,  maintains,  that  man  has  originally  no  moral  corrup- 
tion within  him,  nothing  of  the  nature  of  sin,  previously  to 
actual,  voluntary  transgression.  The  Pelagians  and  the 
Socinians  did  not,  and  do  not  admit  the  distinction  commonly 
made  between  original  sin,  as  inherent  in  man's  nature,  and 
actual  transgression  as  proceeding  therefrom.  That  the 
Pelagians  and  Socinians  have  denied  what  is  called  birth-sin, 


SUBSCRIPTION   TO   UNITED   CONFESSION    OF   FAITH.      379 

native  sinfulness,  or  the  moral  infection  of  our  nature,  previous 
to  actual  transgression,  is  an  historical  fact,  as  every  one  may 
see  by  examining  the  writings  of  Dr.  Ware,  Dr.  John  Taylor, 
and  other  Unitarians  and  Pelagians. 

It  is  remarkable,  too,  that  the  objections  urged  by  Pela- 
gius,  and  Julian,  his  follower,  against  the  doctrine  of  man's 
native  sinfulness  were  very  similar  to  those  argued  by  So- 
cinus  and  John  Taylor,  and  more  recently  by  Unitarians, 
showing  that  the  doctrine  which  they  all  opposed  was 
essentially  the  same.  Now  the  question  is,  what  do  the 
Founders  mean  by  requiring,  that  the  doctrine  of  man's  de- 
pravity shall  be  maintained  in  the  Institution  as  expressed 
in  the  Shorter  Catechism  and  the  Associate  Creed,  in  oppo- 
sition to  Pelagians,  Socinians  and  Unitarians?  And  what 
is  meant  by  the  solemn  promise  of  the  Professors  so  to  do  ? — 
in  opposition  to  ivhat  ? — unless  it  be  to  that  peculiar  doc- 
trine, which,  more  than  anything  else,  forms  the  distinction 
between  those  erroneous  sects  and  the  Orthodox  ? 

The  same  principle  of  interpretation,  holds  in  regard 
to  regeneration,  to  justification  and  all  other  doctrines. 
We  first  examine  the  Catechism  and  Creed  and  notice 
the  meaning  of  the  words  and  sentences  which  they  con- 
tain,— a  meaning  which  is  generally  very  plain.  But  as  a 
confirmation  of  the  obvious  meaning,  or  as  a  means  of  re- 
moving any  doubt,  we  proceed  to  inquire  what  peculiar  doc- 
trines were  maintained  by  the  different  sects  named — the 
doctrines  which  formed  the  line  of  demarcation  between 
them  and  the  Orthodox.  These  doctrines  being  ascertained 
we  thence  conclude  that  the  Founders  intended  that  the 
principles  set  forth  in  the  Catechism  and  Creed,  should  be 
explained  and  taught  in  opposition  to  these  very  doctrines. 
What  else  could  they  intend  ?  If  this  was  not  their  mean- 
ing, what  was  it  ? 

It  may  not  be  superfluous  to  mention  one  more  plain 
indication  of  the  theological  principles  which  the  Founders 
intended  to  express  in  their  doctrinal  standard,  that  is,  the 


380       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

well-known  character  of  the  men  whom  they  appointed  as 
Professors  and  Visitors.  The  first  Professors  in  the  different 
departments  were  appointed  by  the  Founders  themselves. 
Mr.  Abbot  appointed  the  Professor  of  Christian  Theology. 
The  Associate  Founders  appointed  Dr.  Pearson,  as  Professor 
of  Natural  Theology — and  Mr.  Bartlett  appointed  Dr.  Griffin, 
as  the  Professor  of  Pulpit  Eloquence.  Now  Dr.  Pearson  had 
been  Mr.  Abbot's  adviser  and  the  chief  agent  in  framing  his 
Constitution,  which  ordains  the  Shorter  Catechism  as  the 
standard  of  doctrine.  He  had  also  an  agency  in  framing  the 
Associate  Creed,  and  used  all  his  influence  to  exclude  from 
it  everything  which  was  incompatible  with  the  Calvinistic 
system,  and  particularly  with  the  Catechism.  Dr.  Griffin 
was  a  Presbyterian,  and  of  course  a  believer  in  the  Westmin- 
ster Confession  and  Catechism.  These  two  and  the  Professor 
of  Christian  Theology  were  Calvinists.  The  same  was  true 
of  Dr.  D wight  and  Governor  Strong,  whom  the  Founders 
chose  as  Visitors.  And  as  to  Dr.  Spring — he  did  indeed  in 
his  own  individual  belief  differ  somewhat  from  Calvinism  as 
maintained  by  the  Puritan  Fathers  of  New  England  and  the 
Keformed  churches  generally.  But  he  deemed  it  expedient 
to  waive  his  peculiar  tenets,  and,  so  far  as  he  was  engaged 
in  settling  the  theological  character  of  the  Seminary,  to  act 
only  as  a  Calvinist.  Thus  all  the  appointments  which  the 
Founders  made  of  Professors  and  Visitors,  very  clearly  indi- 
cated what  they  wished  and  designed  the  type  of  theology  in 
the  Seminary  to  be.  And  so  did  the  instructions  of  the  Pro- 
fessors during  the  years  immediately  following  the  opening 
of  the  Institution.  For  the  Founders  knew  what  those  in- 
structions were,  and  what  were  the  habits  of  thinking  which 
the  Students  formed  in  the  Seminary,  and  often  expressed 
their  entire  approbation. 

On  the  whole,  when  we  take  into  view  the  plain  language 
of  the  Confession  of  Faith  agreed  upon  by  the  different 
Founders,  and  the  important  use  of  the  contrast  which  they 
pointed  out,  together  with  the  character  of  the  Visitors  and 


SUBSCRIPTION    TO   UNITED   CONFESSION   OF   FAITH.      381 

Professors  whom  they  appointed,  we  may  well  ask  what  more 
they  could  have  done  to  make  known  beyond  any  possible 
doubt,  the  principles  of  theology  which  they  intended  should 
be  believed  and  taught  by  every  Professor  in  the  Institution. 

Dr.  Woods'  unpublished  statement  explaining  tlie  acts  of  the 
Trustees  and  other  matters. 

GENTLEMEN: — It  is  by  no  means  my  intention  to  trouble 
you  with  any  remarks  of  mine  on  what  you  have  written  in 
reference  to  my  "statement."  Whatever  I  may  have  to  say 
on  the  Constitution  and  Statutes  of  the  Seminary  in  relation 
to  a  Confession  of  Faith  and  other  subjects,  I  propose,  if  it  be 
the  will  of  God,  to  say  at  another  time  and  in  another  place. 
But  in  your  remarks  I  find  a  mistake,  which  I  am  sure  you 
did  not  intend  to  make  as  to  a  matter  of  fact  which  I  trust  you 
will  gladly  correct.  But  even  as  to  this  I  should  be  silent,  if 
the  mistake  were  not  unjust  and  injurious  to  a  man  who  has 
long  been  well  known  in  our  community  for  his  integrity  and 
Christian  circumspection.  Keferring  to  the  provisions  of  the 
Founders  of  the  Seminary  respecting  the  Creed,  you  say,  "  It 
was  not  till  a  late  date,  that  a  clause  referring  to  the  Cate- 
chism was  interlined  in  another  hand,  and  without  authority, 
in  the  book  containing  the  Creed."  And  you  represent  this 
as  a  "daring  proceeding,"  and  "an  unjustifiable  effort,"  etc. 
Now  who  is  the  individual  that  is  thus  seriously  and  pub- 
licly impeached  ?  It  is  no  other  than  Samuel  Farrar,  Esq., 
who  has  been  a  tried  friend  and  benefactor  to  the  Academy 
and  the  Seminary  from  the  beginning  of  his  public  life,  who 
was  intrusted  as  Treasurer  with  the  pecuniary  interests  and 
the  active  superintendence  of  both  Institutions,  until  his  ex- 
hausted health  compelled  him  to  retire,  and  who  always  had 
the  confidence  of  the  Founders  at  Andover  and  at  Newbury- 
port  more  than  any  other  man — it  is  this  man,  who  is  above 
the  reach  of  suspicion,  and  who  deserves  the  cordial  esteem 
and  gratitude  of  all  the  wise  and  good,  that  you  accuse  of 
acting  in  a  very  important  affair  " loithoul  authority"  and  of 


382     HISTORY  OF  ANDOVER  THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY. 

an  "  unjustifiable  and  daring  proceeding."  Now  what  was 
this  unauthorized,  unjustifiable  and  daring  proceeding  which 
you  charge  upon  him?  What  was  it  that  he  actually  did? 
It  was  this  and  this  only,  namely,  that  acting  as  Clerk  of  the 
Trustees  he  recorded  what  they  voted  and  wrote  the  exact  form 
of  subscription  required  in  its  proper  place.  The  charge  of 
acting  without  authority  and  in  an  unjustifiable  manner,  if 
it  lies  against  any  one,  lies  against  the  Trustees  of  the 
Seminary. 

The  facts  in  the  case  were  these,  as  the  Records  of  the 
Board  show.  In  1813  the  Trustees  corrected  the  mistake 
which  had  been  made  in  the  crowd  of  business  at  the  open- 
ing of  the  Seminary  by  directing  that  the  Abbot  Professor 
should  repeat  his  Confession  of  Faith  in  accordance  with  the 
1st  Article  of  the  Additional  Statutes  which  requires  of  every 
Professor  a  solemn  declaration  of  his  belief  in  the  doctrines 
expressed  in  the  Catechism,  and  in  addition  to  this  his  belief 
in  the  doctrines  particularly  set  forth  in  the  Associate  Creed. 
And  in  this  way  he  ever  after  repeated  his  assent  to  the  doc- 
trinal standard  appointed  by  the  Founders.  This  was  done 
with  the  knowledge  and  approbation  of  the  Visitors. 

In  1824  a  question  arose  among  the  Trustees,  whether  the 
Associate  Professors  had  taken  the  Confession  of  Faith  ac- 
cording to  the  will  of  the  Founders;  arid  they  chose  a  com- 
mittee to  inquire  whether  the  declaration  of  Faith  by  the 
Professors  on  the  Associate  Foundation  be  in  conformity 
with  the  12th  and  13th  Articles  of  the  Constitution  and  the 
2d  Article  of  the  Associate  Statutes.  The  committee  con- 
sisted of  the  Hon.  Samuel  Hubbard,  Samuel  Farrar,  Esq.,  and 
Rev.  Dr.  Dana,  and  they  had  the  subject  under  consideration 
for  two  years.  At  the  annual  meeting  Sept.  1826,  there  were 
present  his  Honor  William  Phillips,  President,  Hon.  Josiah 
Quincy,  Rev.  Dr.  Justin  Edwards,  John  Adams,  Samuel  Wai- 
ley,  Esq.,  Mark  Newman,  Esq.,  and  all  the  members  of  the 
committee,  Hon.  Samuel  Hubbard,  Samuel  Farrar,  Esq.,  and 
Rev.  Dr.  Dana.  At  that  meeting  the  following  vote  was 


SUBSCRIPTION    TO    UNITED    CONFESSION    OF    FAITH.      383 

passed,  (it  is  said  unanimously,  and  supported  particularly  by 
Mr.  Quincy,)  namely,  "that  in  the  opinion  of  the  Board  the 
Constitution  of  the  Theological  Seminary  as  expressed  in  the 
original  and  Additional  Statutes,  requires  that  the  declara- 
tion made  and  subscribed  by  every  Professor  in  the  Seminary 
shall  be  in  the  following  terms,  viz. — 

"  I Professor do  make  solemn  declaration  of  my 

faith  in  divine  revelation  and  in  the  fundamental  and  distin- 
guishing doctrines  of  the  gospel  of  Christ  as  summarily  ex- 
pressed in  the  Westminster  Assembly's  Shorter  Catechism, 
and  as  more  particularly  expressed  in  the  following  Creed, 
that  is,  the  Associate  Creed." 

What  Mr.  Farrar  did  was  in  exact  accordance  with  this 
vote.  And  is  it  right  to  charge  this  upon  him  as  an  "  unau- 
thorized," "unjustifiable,"  and  "daring  proceeding"? 

You  say  a  clause  referring  to  the  Catechism  was  "  inter- 
lined" This  is  a  mistake,  though  of  no  great  consequence, 
The  clause  was  not  "interlined"  but  was  written  out  as  the 
case  required  in  a  fair  space  left  at  the  top  of  the  page  over 
the  copy  of  the  Associate  Creed — a  space  sufficient  to  admit 
a  caption  containing  the  declaration  required  by  the  vote  of 
the  Trustees,  to  be  made  by  every  Professor. 

Yours  with  respect, 

LEONARD   WOODS. 
Andover,  Oct.  31,  1853. 

The  Report  states  that  "  the  Creed  was  written  out  at  the 
close  of  the  Book  of  Records  by  Mr.  Blanchard  under  the  eye 
of  Mr.  Farrar  and  the  Committee  of  Exigencies."  The  Creed, 
in  distinction  from  the  Catechism,  was  to  be  written  out  in 
particulars,  or  in  detail;  and  this  Mr.  Blanchard  did.  And  as 
he  had  not  received  direction  from  the  Committee  of  Exi- 
gencies as  to  the  form  of  the  caption,  or  the  manner  in  which  the 
provision  in  the  first  Additional  Statute  should  be  inserted,  in 
order  rightly  ro  introduce  the  Creed,  all  he  could  do  was  to 
write  the  Associate  Creed,  and  leave  a  space  above  it  for  the 


384      HISTORY  OF  ANDOVER   THEOLOGICAL   SEMINARY. 

proper  caption.  But  through  the  crowd  of  business  which  de- 
volved on  the  Committee  at  that  period  of  excitement,  they 
omitted  to  insert  the  caption,  and  thus  to  finish  the  form  of 
subscription,  required  by  the  1st  Article  of  the  Additional 
Statutes.  In  consequence  of  this,  the  declaration  and  sub- 
scription of  the  Professors  at  their  inauguration,  inadver- 
tently fell  short  of  what  the  Constitution  and  Additional 
Statutes  required.  It  was  defective.  But  the  defect  was 
partly  remedied  by  the  Trustees,  in  Sept.  1813;  being  the  first 
time  that  any  Professor  was  required  to  repeat  the  declara- 
tion and  Creed.  At  that  time,  the  Trustees  determined  that 
the  Professor  should  proceed  in  exact  conformity  with  the 
1st  Article  of  the  Additional  Statutes.  This  he  did;  and  from 
that  time  to  the  present  the  Abbot  Professor  has  at  every 
successive  period  of  five  years  declared  his  belief  in  the  doc- 
trines expressed  in  the  Catechism  and  Creed,  and  has  prom- 
ised to  conform  to  them  in  his  teaching. 

The  remedy  of  the  mistake  made  at  the  opening  of  the 
Seminary,  by  the  vote  of  the  Trustees  in  1813  was  partial, 
until  1826.  In  1824  the  question  arose  in  the  Board,  whether 
the  Professors  on  the  Associate  Foundation  had  repeated  the 
Creed  according  to  the  Constitution  of  the  Seminary,  no  one 
doubting  that  they  ought  to  do  so.  The  inquiry  did  not  re- 
late to  the  Abbot  Professor  as  he  had  conformed  to  the  Con- 
stitution. In  1826,  all  the  Committee  being  present,  that  is, 
Samuel  Hubbard,  Dr.  Dana,  and  Samuel  Farrar,  the  Trustees 
voted  unanimously,  that  every  Professor  in  the  Seminary 
ought  to  repeat  the  declaration  of  his  belief  in  the  doctrines 
of  the  Catechism  as  well  as  the  Creed.  And  this  vote  was 
not  passed,  as  the  Report  affirms,  "  without  much  delay  and 
without  much  consideration."  For  the  Committee  had  it  in 
hand  two  years;  and  such  men  as  Samuel  Hubbard,  Dr.  Dana, 
and  Samuel  Farrar,  were  not  likely,  especially  in  so  impor- 
tant a  concern,  to  act  without  consideration  and  in  haste. 

This  act  of  the  Board  completely  remedied  the  mistake, 
which  was  partly  remedied  in  1813.  From  1826  to  1842  this 


DR.    WOODS7   PLEA.  385 

deliberate  act  of  the  Trustees  was  in  force,  and  all  the  Pro- 
fessors conformed  to  it.  No  one  objected  to  it  before  1839, 
when  Professor  Emerson,  though  willing  to  give  his  assent 
to  the  Catechism  in  itself  considered,  thought  he  ought  not 
to  do  it,  because  the  Associate  Statutes  did  not  require  it. 
Soon  after,  Professor  Stuart  objected  still  more  strongly  to 
the  vote  of  the  Trustees  in  1826,  and  made  known  his  objec- 
tions to  members  of  the  Board,  and  his  determination  not  to 
repeat  again  the  declaration  of  his  belief  in  the  doctrines  of 
the  Catechism.  No  one  will  presume  to  say  that  the  Act  of 
the  Board  in  1842  excusing  the  Associate  Professors  from 
assenting  to  the  Catechism,  was  influenced  in  any  measure 
by  the  knowledge  of  the  feelings  of  Professors.  But  it  was 
in  these  circumstances  that  the  vote  in  1842  was  passed; — 
and  passed,  as  will  be  remembered,  not  harmoniously,  like  the 
vote  of  1826,  but  against  the  earnest  objections  of  Mr.  Farrar, 
Mr.  Fletcher,  Dr.  Burgess,  Dr.  Dana,  and  Dr.  Cogswell;  and 
while  all,  who  then  constituted  the  Board  of  Visitors,  re- 
gretted that  the  vote  of  the  Trustees  in  1826  was  repealed. 


XIII. 

DR.    WOODS'    PLEA. 

To  the  Reverend  and  Honorable  the  Visitors  of  the  Theological 
Seminary,  Andover. 

GENTLEMEN : — 

IN  my  last  Report,  I  suggested  that  I  had  a  difficulty  in 
my  mind  in  regard  to  the  form  which  is  given  to  the  Creed 
of  the  Seminary  in  the  printed  copy  of  the  laws,  and  in  the 
copy  which  was  first  written  in  the  Records  of  the  Board  of 
Trustees  for  the  use  of  the  Professors.  And  I  signified  that 
it  was  my  desire  to  be  permitted  to  communicate  to  the 
Guardians  of  the  Seminary  my  thoughts  and  convictions  on 
that  subject.  I  shall  take  the  liberty  to  make  the  communi- 


386       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

cation  at  this  time.  So  that  you  may  have  opportunity  to 
consider  the  subject  maturely,  before  it  will  be  my  duty  again 
to  repeat  the  Creed. 

It  will  be  seen  at  once,  that  I  have  a  direct,  personal  in- 
terest in  this  subject:  inasmuch  as  it  is  a  solemn  duty  incum- 
bent on  me  to  give  my  assent  to  the  Creed,  and  to  do  it 
exactly  in  the  manner  prescribed  by  the  Founders. 

When  I  was  inducted  into  the  office  of  Abbot  Professor,  I 
put  myself  not  at  all  under  the  Associate  Statutes,  but  under 
the  Constitution  of  the  Seminary,  and  solemnly  bound  myself 
to  conform  to  all  its  provisions.  Now  it  is  my  wish  fully  to 
discharge  this  individual,  personal  obligation,  according  to 
the  express  will  of  the  Founders.  This  being  my  object  I  am 
sure  you  will  allow  me  to  open  my  mind  without  reserve, 
and  to  lay  before  you  the  train  of  reflections  by  which  I  have 
been  brought  to  my  present  conviction.  And  I  trust  I  shall 
be  able  to  speak  rather  largely  upon  the  subject  and  with 
some  confidence  and  earnestness,  without  exposing  myself  to 
the  charge  of  arrogance,  or  too  great  forwardness.  I  claim  no 
special  advantage  in  regard  to  a  right  understanding  of  the 
subject  under  consideration,  except  what  results  from  the 
fact, — that  I  had  at  the  time  a  perfect  knowledge  of  the  transac- 
tions relating  to  the  establishment  of  this  Institution  and  ivas 
called  by  Divine  Providence  to  have  a  direct,  and  constant  agency 
in  framing  the  Associate  Statutes,  and  in  all  the  measures  prepar- 
atory to  the  union  between  the  original  and  Associate  Founders, 
and  had  free  and  frequent  conversation  and  correspondence  ivith 
them  for  more  than  twelve  months  previous  to  the  establishment  of 
the  united  Seminary. 

The  fact  I  have  thus  referred  to  is  well  known  to  one  of 
the  members  of  the  Board  of  Trustees  who  was  also  directly 
concerned  in  the  same  transactions. 

The  first  thing  which  I  beg  leave  to  say,  but  which  is  so 
obvious,  that  it  may  seem  unnecessary  for  me  to  say  it,  is 
this ;  namely,  that  my  duty  as  a  Professor,  in  all  respects  and 
particularly  as  to  the  Creed  which  I  shall  adopt,  is  to  be 


DR.    WOODS'    PLEA.  387 

gathered  from  the  Constitution  of  the  Founders,  and  from  tliat 
only; — the  Additional  Statutes  being  included  as  a  part  of  the 
Constitution.  The  original  Constitution  and  the  Additional 
Statutes  were  accepted  by  the  Trustees,  as  the  Constitution  of 
the  Seminary  according  to  which  all  its  concerns  were  to  be 
regulated.  The  provisions  of  this  Constitution  respecting  a 
Creed  relate  expressly  to  "  every  Professor  in  the  Institution," 
and  of  course  to  the  Abbot  Professor.  As  to  the  Abbot  Pro- 
fessor, there  is  nothing  else,  which  does,  in  any  way,  relate 
to  him.  The  Associate  Founders  never  made  any  rule,  or 
the  least,  suggestion,  directly  or  indirectly,  in  regard  to  any 
Professor,  except  those  on  their  Foundation.  This  any  one 
who  examines  will  see.  It  is  clear  then,  that  whatever  relates 
to  the  Creed  of  the  Abbot  Professor,  must  be  gathered  from 
the  Constitution  and  the  Additional  Statutes, — -just  as  though 
that  were  the  only  instrument  relating  to  the  Institution. 
If  anything  was  to  be  transferred  from  the  Associate  Statutes 
to  the  Constitution  of  the  Seminary,  so  as  to  be  applicable  to 
the  Abbot  Professor, — it  was  done  by  those  who  had  a  right 
to  do  it,  that  is,  the  Original  Founders.  It  is  therefore  un- 
questionable that  all  the  regulations  respecting  the  Abbot 
Professor  and  particularly  those  respecting  his  Creed  must 
be  found  in  the  Constitution  and  Additional  Statutes  and  no- 
where else.  So  that  to  make  out  the  Creed  of  the  Abbot 
Professor  is  a  very  plain  and  easy  matter,  and  free  from  all 
doubt  and  perplexity. 

Everything,  which  pertains  to  the  theological  principles  and 
Creed  of  the  Abbot  Professor,  is  found  in  the  following  Arti- 
cles ;  viz.,  Arts,  llth,  12th,  and  13th  of  the  Constitution  and  Art. 
1st  of  the  Additional  Statutes.  The  inquiry  then  is  reduced  to 
a  narrow  compass ;  what  do  these  Articles  require  as  to  the 
religious  principles  and  Creed  of  the  Professor?  In  Art.  llth 
of  the  Constitution  it  is  said:  "He  shall  be  a  man  of  sound 
and  orthodox  principles  in  divinity,  according  to  that  form 
of  sound  words,  or  system  of  evangelical  doctrines  drawn 
from  the  Scriptures,  and  denominated  the  Westminster  As- 


388       HISTORY   OF    ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

sembly's  Shorter  Catechism."  After  this  general  description 
of  the  principles  of  the  Professor,  the  same  Constitution  pro- 
ceeds to  say  (Art.  12):  "On  the  day  of  his  inauguration  into 
office,  and  in  the  presence  of  the  Trustees,  the  Professor  shall 
publicly  make  and  subscribe  a  solemn  declaration  of  his  faith 
in  divine  revelation  and  in  the  fundamental  and  distinguish- 
ing doctrines  of  the  gospel  as  summarily  expressed  in  the 
Westminster  Assembly's  Shorter  Catechism — and  he  shall 
solemnly  promise  that — he  will  maintain  and  inculcate  the 
Christian  faith  as  above  expressed,"  (that  is,  in  the  Catechism,) 
**  and  in  opposition  not  only  to  atheists  and  infidels,  but  to 
Jews,  Mahometans,  Arians,  Antinomians,  Armiriians,  Socin- 
ians,  Unitarians  and  Universalists  and  all  other  heresies  and 
errors,  ancient  or  modern,  which  may  be  opposed  to  the  gos- 
pel of  Christ,  or  hazardous  to  the  souls  of  men."  Art.  13th,— 
"  The  preceding  declaration  shall  be  repeated  by  every  Pro- 
fessor in  this  Seminary  at  the  expiration  of  every  successive 
period  of  five  years:  and  no  man  shall  be  continued  a  Profess- 
or in  this  Institution,  who  shall  not  continue  to  approve 
himself,  to  the  satisfaction  of  said  Trustees,  a  man  of  sound 
and  orthodox  principles  in  divinity,  agreeably  to  the  system 
of  doctrines  contained  in  the  aforesaid  Catechism.  Accord- 
ingly, if  it  should  be  proved — that  any  Professor  in  this  Insti- 
tution has  taught  or  embraced  any  of  the  heresies  or  errors 
alluded  to  in  the  declaration  aforesaid,  or  shall  refuse  to  re- 
peat the  same  as  herein  required,  he  shall  be  forthwith  re- 
moved from  office." 

The  above  is  all  that  the  Founders  of  the  Institution./?^ 
appointed  and  settled  in  regard  to  the  Professor's  Creed;  nor 
did  they  think  of  anything  more  until  the  design  of  the  As- 
sociate Founders  was  made  known  to  them.  It  was  with  a 
view  to  the  wishes  of  the  Associate  Founders,  that  they  made 
Additional  Statutes  eight  months  after  the  Institution  was 
established.  And  what  was  the  further  provision  made  in 
the  Additional  Statutes,  respecting  the  Professor's  Creed?  It 
is  found  in  Art.  1st  of  the  Additional  Statutes,  as  follows, 


DR.    WOODS'    PLEA,  380 

"  Having  in  the  12th  Art.  of  our  said  Constitution  provided, 
that  every  person  appointed  or  elected  a  Professor  in  said 
Seminary  shall,  on  the  day  of  his  inauguration  into  office,  pub- 
licly make  and  subscribe  a  declaration  of  his  faith  in  divine 
revelation,  and  in  the  fundamental  and  distinguishing  doctrines 
of  the  gospel,  as  summarily  expressed  in  the  Westminster  Shorter 
Catechism;  we  now  ordain  the  following  addition,  to  be  in- 
serted in  said  Article  in  connection  with  the  said  clause;  viz., 
and  as  more  particularly  expressed  in  the  following  Creed,  to 
wit,  "  I  believe  there  is  one  and  but  one  living  and  true 
God,"  etc.,  (the  whole  of  the  Associate  Founders'  Creed). 
This  was  the  final  act  of  the  Founders.  They  never  did  any- 
thing, directly  or  indirectly,  relative  to  the  Creed,  after  May 
3,  1808. 

Now  what  is  easier,  than  to  lay  before  us  the  above  men- 
tioned articles  (Arts,  llth,  12th  and  13th  of  the  Constitution  and 
Art.  1st  of  the  Additional  Statutes,)  and  to  make  up  a  full  ac- 
count of  the  religious  principles  arid  Creed  of  the  Professor  ? 
The  declaration  which  he  is  to  make  and  subscribe  at  his  inaugu- 
ration and  afterwards  to  repeat,  is  all  prepared  by  the  Founders, 
and  when  put  in  order  stands  thus: — 

"  I  believe  in  divine  revelation  and  in  the  fundamental  and 
distinguishing  doctrines  of  the  gospel  of  Christ,  as  summarily 
expressed  in  the  Westminster  Assembly's  Shorter  Catechism, 
and  as  more  particularly  expressed  in  the  following  Creed;  to 
wit,  u  I  believe  there  is  one  and  but  one  living  and  true  God ; 
that  the  word  of  God,"  etc. 

This  is  the  declaration  of  belief  which  the  Founders  pre- 
scribed and  in  these  very  words. 

The  promise  which  the  Professor  shall  make  and  repeat  is 
equally  obvious  (Art.  12th,  Constitution):  "  He  shall  solemnly 
promise  that  he  will ....  maintain  and  inculcate  the  Christian 
faith,  as  above  expressed," — that  is  in  the  Catechism.  But  the 
Additional  Statutes  appoint  the  Associate  Creed  to  be  added  to 
the  Catechism.  What  then  must  the  promise  be?  The  prom- 
ise gathered  from  the  Constitution  and  the  Associate  Statutes 


390       HISTORY   OF   ANDOYER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

must  stand  thus:  I  solemnly  promise  that  I  will  maintain  and 
inculcate  the  Christian  faith  expressed  in  the  above-mentioned 
Catechism  and  Creed.  The  promise  as  stated  in  the  Records 
of  the  Trustees  and  in  the  printed  copy  of  the  Laws,  refers 
only  to  the  Creed,  i.  e.,  the  Associate  Creed, — entirely  setting 
aside  the  provision  of  the  Constitution  in  regard  to  the  solemn 
promise  of  a  Professor. 

Thus  the  matter  stands  and  thus  it  must  stand  unless  some- 
thing has  been  done  to  alter  or  modify  or  limit  the  provi- 
sions of  the  Constitution.  I  inquire  then  what  has  been  done 
by  Founders  or  Trustees  relative  to  the  provisions  of  the  Con- 
stitution respecting  the  religious  principles  and  the  Creed  of 
the  Professors  ?  As  this  is  an  important  inquiry  and  the  only 
one  which  seems  to  require  any  further  attention  I  solicit 
the  patience  and  candor  of  the  Board  while  I  pursue  the  in- 
quiry till  I  come  to  the  end  of  it. 

In  order  to  a  right  understanding  of  the  subject,  it  must 
be  kept  in  mind,  that  this  Theological  Institution  was  founded 
by  Samuel  Abbot,  Phoebe  Phillips,  and  John  Phillips,  eight- 
months  before  Messrs  Brown  and  Bartlett  and  Norris  had  any 
connection  with  it.  The  Founders  signed  their  Constitution 
Aug.  31,  A.  D.  1807.  Two  days  after  that,  namely  Sept  2d, 
the  Constitution  was  communicated  to  the  Board  of  Trustees, 
and  that  Constitution  together  with  the  funds  provided,  was 
by  them  accepted  as  a  sacred  trust.  This  Institution  was  thus 
founded  by  the  act  of  Samuel  Abbot,  Phoebe  Phillips,  and  John 
Phillips,  and  the  corresponding  act  of  the  Trustees,  who  re- 
ceived it  in  solemn  charge.  The  three  persons  above  men- 
tioned were  the  Founders  of  the  Institution,  and  the  only  Foun- 
ders. The  Associate  Founders  had  not  a  co-ordinate  or  joint 
agency  in  founding  the  Institution.  They  were  not  the  Foun- 
ders of  the  Institution  at  all;  any  more  than  Hollis,  Dexter,  and 
Dame  were  Founders  of  Harvard  College.  Hollis,  Dexter,  and 
Dame  were  Founders  of  Professorships  in  Harvard  College.  So 
Messrs.  Bartlett,  and  Norris  were  Founders  not  of  the  Institu- 
tion, but  of  Professorships  and  Scholarships  in  the  Institution ; 


DR.    WOODS'    PLEA.  391 

according  to  the  provisions  of  the  Founders  of  the  Seminary 
in  the  32d  Article  of  the  Constitution; — (which  see.)  The 
Associate  Founders  everywhere  express  themselves  in  exact 
correspondence  with  these  views.  They  provide  for  "  the  main- 
tenance of  two  Professors  in  the  Theological  Seminary  lately 
founded  in  the  town  of  Andover."  This  is  their  language. 
All  their  statutes  relate  exclusively  to  the  Professors  and  stu- 
dents on  their  Foundation.  They  never  said  or  did  anything 
to  make  or  mend,  or  alter  the  Constitution  in  any  respect 
whatever.  They  could  not;  for  the  Seminary  was  already  es- 
tablished, and  its  Constitution  was  completed  and  made  un- 
alterable by  any  man  or  men  on  earth,  except  by  the  Founders 
themselves  during  their  life.  But  while  it  is  so  true,  that 
the  Associate  Founders  limited  their  Statutes  to  their  partic- 
ular Foundation,  and  never,  in  any  instance,  undertook  to 
legislate  for  the  Institution;  the  original  Founders  undertook  to 
legislate,  and  did  legislate  for  the  Institution  the  ivhole  Insti- 
tution; as  it  was  in  the  beginning  and  as  it  should  be  in  all 
future  time.  They  had  a  rig- lit  to  do  this.  And  when  the 
Trustees  accepted  their  Constitution,  with  their  Funds,  they 
acknowledged  and  confirmed  their  right  thus  to  legislate.  They 
gave  their  seal  to  all  and  every  part  of  the  Constitution,  as 
the  permanent  and  unalterable  Constitution  of  the  whole  Semi- 
nary, just  as  it  professed  to  be;— unalterable,  I  say,  except  by 
the  Founders  themselves. 

This  Institution,  I  have  said,  was  founded  Sept.  2d,  A.  D. 
1807,  by  the  joint  act  of  the  Founders  arid  the  Trustees.  And 
that  the  Founders  and  Trustees  regarded  the  Institution  as 
really  and  completely  founded  at  that  time,  is  made,  if  possible, 
still  more  evident  from  the  fact  that  on  the  first  day  of  Oc- 
tober 1807,  being  one  month  after  the  Institution  was  foun- 
ded, the  Abbot  Professor  was  appointed  by  the  Founder  and 
was  shortly  after  duly  informed  of  his  appointment  by  a  com- 
mittee of  the  Board.  He  was  appointed  under  the  Constitu- 
tion, while  as  yet  the  Associate  Founders  and  the  Associate 
Statutes  were  not  known.  The  next  May,  eight  months  after 


392       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

the  Institution  was  founded,  the  Associate  Founders  came 
forward  with  their  Statutes  and  funds  and  were  admitted  by 
the  Trustees  into  a  connection  with  the  Seminary,  much  as  a 
new  State  is  received  into  connection  with  our  great  Republic, 
and  under  the  authority  of  the  whole  and  every  part  of  a  Fed- 
eral Constitution  already  established, — that  Constitution  re- 
maining unaltered,  and  in  full  force  over  the  new  State  just 
as  much  as  over  the  other  States. 

But  was  there  not  an  important  alteration  made  in  re- 
gard to  the  Creed  by  an  act  of  the  Original  Founders,  subse- 
quent to  Sept.  2d,  1807,  when  the  Institution  was  founded  ? 
There  was  such  an  alteration;  and  the  occasion  of  it  was 
this.  Messrs.  Brown,  Bartlett  and  Norris  contemplated  the 
founding  of  one  or  more  Professorships  and  Scholarships  in 
the  existing  Institution.  With  this  object  in  view,  they 
framed  a  Statute  of  their  own,  containing  a  creed  for  their 
Professors,  who  of  course  were  to  come  in  under  the  Con- 
stitution and  to  conform  to  its  provisions  relative  to  a  creed. 
In  this  matter  those  gentlemen  did  not  act  in  the  dark. 
They  had  the  Constitution  of  the  Seminary  before  them. 
They  studied  it,  and  every  part  of  it  with  the  utmost  care ; 
and  most  of  all,  that  part  of  it  which  related  to  the  creed  of 
the  Professor.  This  I  well  know,  for  I  studied  it  with  them 
for  days  and  weeks,  and  studied  it  with  the  deep  interest 
of  one  who  expected  to  give  his  own  assent  to  the  very 
creed  contained  in  the  12th  Article  of  the  Constitution;  the 
Constitution  being  then  exactly  what  it  is  now.  Those  gen- 
tlemen saw  clearly  and  they  could  not  but  see,  that  the  pro- 
visions of  the  Constitution  in  all  respects,  and  particularly 
in  respect  to  a  creed,  must  be  binding  upon  every  one  who 
should  ever  become  a  Professor  in  the  Seminary.  They 
came  then  to  this  difficult  point; — '  Our  Professor  will  sub- 
scribe to  the  creed  contained  in  the  Constitution  and  also 
to  the  creed  contained  in  our  Statutes,  while  the  Abbot 
Professor,  who  is  always  to  be  the  Professor  of  Theology, 
will  subscribe  to  the  creed  contained  in  the  Constitution 


DR.    WOODS'    PLEA.  393 

only.'  Then  came  up  the  appalling  idea  of  the  Professors 
in  the  united  Seminary  subscribing  to  two  creeds  of  different 
forms.  They  at  once  came  to  this  conclusion.  '  We  cannot 
come  into  the  Andover  Institution,  except  on  the  principle,  that 
there  shall  be  one  and  the  same  creed  for  all  the  Professors.1 
But,  as  circumstances  were,  how  could  this  be  effected  ?  It 
could  be  effected  in  the  following  way,  and  in  no  other. 
As  the  Associate  Professors  would  come  in  under  the 
Constitution  and  adopt  the  creed  which  it  prescribes;  so  they 
said,  the  Original  Founders  must  adopt  the  creed  contained 
in  the  Associate  Statutes,  and  make  it  a  part  of  the  creed 
of  the  Abbot  Professor,  as  well  as  the  others.  This  is  pre- 
cisely what  the  Associate  Founders  proposed  and  insisted 
upon,  in  order  to  secure  that  one  indispensable  object, — 
the  perfect  sameness  of  the  creed  to  be  used  in  the  Seminary. 
And  this  is  precisely  what  the  Original  Founders  consented 
to  do  and  what  they  actually  did,  by  an  Instrument  dated 
May  3d,  1808,  containing  their  Additional  Statutes, — which 
Additional  Statutes  they  had  a  right  to  make  according  to 
a  provision  in  the  Constitution.  Here  was  the  closing  tran- 
saction, the  settlement  of  all  questions  between  Samuel 
Abbot,  Phcebe  Phillips  and  John  Phillips  on  the  one  part, 
and  Messrs.  Brown,  Bartlett  and  Norris  on  the  other  part. 
Here  was  the  end  of  all  negotiations.  As  the  Associate 
Founders  were  to  adopt  the  creed  contained  in  the  Constitu- 
tion as  a  part  of  the  creed  for  the  Associate  Professors,  so 
the  Original  Founders  adopted  the  Associate  Creed  as  a  part 
of  the  creed  for  all  the  Professors.  Each  party  retained 
every  iota  of  their  own  creed  and  each  party  added  to  their 
own  creed,  the  creed  of  the  other  party.  Then  what  was 
indispensable  to  the  welfare  of  the  Seminary  and  what  all  con- 
cerned saw  to  be  indispensable,  was  accomplished; — the  fixing 
of  one  and  the  same  creed  for  all  the  Professors  in  the  Seminary. 
This  important  business  was  brought  to  its  consummation 
at  a  regular  meeting  of  the  Board  May  10th,  1808.  The 
Associate  Statutes  and  the  Additional  Statutes  were  com- 


394       HISTORY  OF  ANDOVER   THEOLOGICAL   SEMINARY. 

raunicated  to  the  Board  at  their  previous  meeting,  May  3d 
and  4th,  and  were  now  accepted.  Nothing  was  ever  done 
after  that  time,  respecting  the  creed,  o*  anything  else  per- 
taining to  the  Constitution  or  the  Associate  Statutes.  The 
substance  of  the  whole  may  be  given  in  few  words.  Samuel 
Abbot,  Phoebe  Phillips  and  John  Phillips  founded  a  The 
ological  Institution  in  this  place  Sept.  2d,  1807,  under  a  Con- 
stitution which  they  had  before  prepared  and  which  was 
then  accepted  and  made  permanent  by  the  act  of  the  Board 
of  Trustees.  A  month  after  that  Mr.  Abbot  appointed  his 
Professor  as  it  was  then  expected  that  the  Institution  would 
soon  commence  its  operations.  But  three  other  men,  who 
had  projected  a  similar  Institution  in  Newbury,  being  made 
acquainted  with  the  proceedings  of  the  Andover  Founders, 
and  having  carefully  examined  their  Constitution  and  en- 
tirely approving  of  it,  offered  to  give  their  funds  to  the 
Seminary  already  established,  and  to  place  their  Professors 
under  the  Constitution,  on  two  grand  conditions:  first,  that 
the  Original  Founders  should  join  with  them  in  appointing 
a  Board  of  Visitors.  Second:  that  they  should  adopt  their 
creed  in  connection  with  the  Catechism,  so  as  to  have  one 
and  the  same  creed  for  all  the  Professors.  With  these  con- 
ditions the  Original  Founders  complied,  by  forming  and  ex- 
ecuting their  Additional  Statutes.  In  this  way  the  union 
was  formed  between  the  Founders  of  the  Institution,  and 
the  three  Founders  of  Professorships  and  Scholarships  in 
the  Institution;  all  the  principles  of  the  union  being  clearly 
set  forth  in  the  documents  above  mentioned,  to  wit,  the 
Constitution,  the  Additional  Statutes,  and  the  Associate  Statutes. 
If  these  documents  do  not  show  what  the  will  of  the  Foun- 
ders was  respecting  the  creed,  nothing  can  show  it.  They 
meant  to  leave  written  instruments  which  would  make  it  per- 
fectly plain.  But  they  left  nothing  besides  the  instruments 
above  mentioned.  If  then'there  is  any  difficulty  in  gather- 
ing the  creed  from  these  written  documents  it  must  be  that 
the  Founders  all  failed  of  expressing  themselves  clearly  and 


DR.    WOODS'    PLEA.  395 

fully  on  a  subject  which  they  deemed  more  important  than 
any  other  and  on  which  they  were  most  of  all  desirous  of 
being  understood. 

But  is  there  any  difficulty,  or  any  ground  of  doubt,  re- 
lative to  this  subject  ?  Is  there  any  question  which  needs 
further  consideration  ?  It  certainly  cannot  be  made  a  ques- 
tion, whether  the  provision  of  the  Constitution  and  Ad- 
ditional Statutes  respecting  a  creed  are  binding  upon  the 
Abbot  Professor.  But  do  they  apply  to  the  other  Professors  ? 
This  I  apprehend  must  be  answered  in  the  affirmative,  for  the 
following  very  obvious  reasons. 

First.  The  Constitution  itself  declares,  that  all  its  pro- 
visions on  this  subject  apply  to  "every  Professor  in  the  Seminary." 
And  the  Additional  Statutes  repeat  the  same  thing,  claiming 
to  provide  a  creed  for  "  every  person  appointed  or  elected  a 
Professor  in  the  Institution"  which  had  been  founded  in  An- 
dover.  Nor  can  it  be  thought  that  the  Original  Founders  at 
that  time  had  no  professors  in  view  but  those  who  should  be 
placed  upon  the  Abbot  Foundation.  This  might  possibly  be 
supposed  to  be  the  case,  had  not  the  Founders,  when  they 
formed  the  Constitution  and  the  Additional  Statutes,  been 
made  acquainted  with  the  design  of  Messrs.  Brown,  Bartlett, 
and  Norris  to  establish  other  Professorships  in  the  Institution. 
But  they  were  fully  acquainted  with  that  design.  They  con- 
fidently expected  that  two  other  Professors  would  be  provided 
for  and  soon  introduced  into  the  Seminary.  So  that  when 
they  say — "  every  Professor  in  the  Seminary " — they  must 
have  referred  to  those  who  should  come  in  on  the  other  foun- 
dations, as  really  as  to  the  one  on  the  Abbot  Foundation. 
Indeed  they  made  their  Additional  Statutes  for  the  very  pur- 
pose of  preparing  the  way  for  other  Professors  besides  the 
Abbot  Professor  to  be  admitted  into  the  Seminary.  Still,  in 
these  very  Additional  Statutes,  which  were  made  expressly  to 
satisfy  the  Associate  Founders,  the"  Original  Founders  main- 
tain the  same  position  as  before  and  legislate  for  every  per- 
son who  should  ever  be  a  Professor  in  the  Institution.  In 


396       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

this  last  act  of  theirs,  which  was  intended  to  give  the  final 
stamp  to  the  Creed  and  in  which  they  made  all  the  alteration 
respecting  the  Creed  which  was  ever  to  be  made  to  the  end 
of  time; — in  this  last  act,  they  particularly  arid  fully  prescribed 
a  Creed,  not  merely  for  the  Abbot  Professor,  but  for  every 
Professor  in  this  Seminary  and  in  such  a  Seminary  as  they  ex- 
pected this  to  be,  including  the  Associate  Foundation.  How  is  it 
possible  to  doubt  that  it  was  their  design  and  purpose  to  frame 
a  Creed  for  all  who  should  ever  be  Professors  in  this  Seminary. 
My  second  reason  for  considering  the  provisions  of  the 
Constitution  and  Additional  Statutes,  as  binding  on  all  the 
Professors  is  that  the  Associate  Founders  so  understood  them 
and  acted  accordingly.  They  had  the  Constitution  and  Ad- 
ditional Statutes  before  them.  They  had  requested  the  Orig- 
inal Founders  to  make  alterations.  And  here  they  found  all 
the  alterations  they  desired.  If  they  had  objected  to  their 
Professors  subscribing  to  the  Catechism,  why  did  they  not  make 
known  their  objections?  why  did  they  not  say  to  the  Original 
Founders — "  We  are  willing  you  should  prescribe  the  Cate- 
chism as  the  Creed  of  the  Abbot  Professor,  but  not  as  the 
Creed  of  our  Professors."  But  they  never  said  this  and  they 
never  had  such  a  thought.  They  were  as  strongly  attached 
to  the  Catechism  arid  as  desirous  to  make  it  a  part  of  the 
Creed,  as  the  Original  Founders  were.  Is  it  asked  how  this 
appears  ? — why  it  appears  from  the  fact  that  after  examining 
the  Constitution  and  Additional  Statutes,  they  came  forward 
and  founded  professorships  in  a  Seminary  which  had  this  very 
Constitution  and  which  was  forever  to  be  managed  by  the 
Trustees  in  exact  accordance  with  it.  Now  this  proceeding 
of  the  Associate  Founders  was  a  virtual  assent  to  all  the 
principles  and  regulations  contained  in  the  Constitution  and 
it  implied  their  assent  to  the  provisions  respecting  a  Creed 
as  much  as  respecting  anything  else.  The  provision  of  a 
Creed  in  the  Constitution  they  regarded  as  its  most  important 
provision.  If  they  intended  to  except  that  they  certainly 
would  have  said  so.  But  with  a  perfect  knowledge  of  all  its 


DR.    WOODS'    PLEA.  397 

provisions  and  all  its  claims  as  the  Constitution,  the  perma- 
nent unalterable  Constitution  of  this  Seminary,  they  put  their 
funds  and  their  professors  under  it  without  the  least  excep- 
tion. But  they  did  not  stop  with  this  implied  assent.  Far 
otherwise.  In  the  very  article  containing  their  own  Creed 
(Asso.  Statutes,  Art.  2d,)  they  expressly  ordain  that  every 
Professor  on  the  Associate  Foundation  shall  solemnly  promise 
that  he  "  will  religiously  conform  to  the  Constitution  of  the 
Seminary"  as  well  as  to  the  Statutes  of  the  Associate  Founda- 
tion and  shall  continue  to  promise'it  every  five  years.  They 
do  not  say  he  shall  promise  to  conform  to  the  provisions 
of  the  Constitution  except  in  regard  to  the  Creed.  They  make 
no  exceptions: — although  they  had  the  Constitution  right 
before  them  and  saw  and  understood  that  its  chief  provision 
was,  that  every  Professor  in  the  Seminary,  shall  subscribe  to 
the  Catechism. 

But  the  Associate  Founders  did  even  more  than  this  in 
the  way  of  recognizing  the  authority  of  the  Constitution.  In 
Art.  19th  of  their  Statutes  they  require  that  every  Visitor 
shall  expressly  declare  his  approbation  of  "  the  Statutes  of  the 
Theological  Institution  and  those  of  the  Associate  Founders," 
thus  distinguishing  the  original  Statutes,  (L  e.,  the  Constitu- 
tion from  the  Associate  Statutes).  And  in  the  next  Article 
they  enjoin  it  upon  the  Visitors  as  a  sacred  duty  "  to  exer- 
cise the  functions  of  their  office  in  the  fear  of  God,  according 
to  the  Associate  Statutes  and  the  Constitution  of  the  Seminary" 
and  in  Art.  19th  they  do  still  more.  For  they  require  that 
every  Visitor  "shall  subscribe  the  same  Theological  Creed  which 
every  Professor  elect  is  required  to  subscribe  " — referring  di- 
rectly to  the  Constitution  which  prescribes  the  duty  of  "  every 
Professor-elect"  in  regard  to  a  Creed.  In  the  9th  Art.  of  the 
Additional  Statutes,  the  Original  Founders  give  directions  on 
the  same  subject,  in  perfect  agreement  with  the  Associate 
Founders.  They  require  every  Visitor  to  declare,  that  he  ap- 
proves the  Constitution  of  the  Theological  Institution,  and  sol 
emnly  to  promise  that  he  will  faithfully  exert  his  abilities  to 


398       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

carry  into  execution  the  regulations  therein  contained,  i.  e., 
contained  in  the  Constitution.  They  do  not  except  the  reg- 
ulations of  the  Constitution  in  regard  to  a  Creed.  Instead 
of  making  this  exception  they  (the  Original  Founders)  pro- 
ceed in  the  next  sentence,  to  say  that  the  Visitors  themselves 
"  shall  subscribe  the  same  Theological  Creed  which  every  Profess- 
or-elect is  required  to  subscribe."  The  Original  Founders  say 
this,  and  say  it  in  reference  to  their  own  Constitution  and  Ad- 
ditional Statutes.  The  only  question  is,  what  Creed  do  the 
Original  Founders  prescribe  for  "every  Professor-elect"  ?  As- 
certain this,  as  you  easily  may  by  looking  at  Art.  12th  of  the 
Constitution  and  Art.  1st  of  the  Additional  Statutes,  and  you 
ascertain  what  is  the  Creed  of  the  Visitors.  In  those  two 
Articles,  the  Creed  of  every  Professor  in  the  Seminary  and 
of  every  Visitor  is  written  in  beams  of  noonday  light.  So 
that  when  the  Associate  Founders  and  the  Original  Founders 
unite  in  requiring  the  Visitors  to  approve  the  Constitution 
and  subscribe  the  same  Creed  which  every  Professor  in  the 
Seminary  is  required  to  subscribe,  it  is  easy  enough  to  know 
what  they  mean.  Instead  of  excepting  the  Creed  prescribed 
in  the  Constitution  arid  Additional  Statutes,  they  appoint  the 
very  same  Creed  as  the  Creed  of  the  Visitors.  It  thus  appears 
from  the  recorded  doings  of  the  Original  Founders  of  the 
Institution  and  Associate  Founders  of  Professorships  in  the 
Institution,  that  all  the  provisions  of  the  Constitution  and 
Additional  Statutes  respecting  the  Creed  were  meant  to  be 
applied  to  "every  Professor  in  the  Seminary."  If  the  Founders 
— any  of  them — made  any  exception,  where  is  the  exception 
found  ?  In  what  part  of  the  Constitution,  Additional  Statutes, 
or  Associate  Statutes  shall  we  look  for  it  ?  Where  is  there 
any  intimation  or  appearance  of  such  a  thing  ?  And  yet  the 
thing  is  of  such  a  nature  that  if  any  of  the  Founders  had 
meant  it,  they  certainly  would  have  taken  care  to  say  it  in 
the  most  explicit  and  emphatic  terms.  For  the  Creed  and  the 
exact  form  of  it  was  with  them  the  object  of  more  care  and 
consultation  and  labor  than  anything  else,  and  with  the  As- 


DR.    WOODS'    PLEA.  399 

sociate  Founders  more  than  all  things  else.  And  they  were 
plain,  honest,  free-spoken  men,  inclined  to  express  their  minds 
without  concealment.  So  that  we  cannot  suppose  that  they 
left  anything  unsaid,  which  they  deemed  necessary  to  render 
their  meaning  perfectly  clear. 

1  have  suggested  two  general  reasons  for  considering  the 
provisions  of  the  Constitution  and  Additional  Statutes  relative 
to  a  creed,  as  applying  to  all  the  Professors  in  the  Seminary, 
as  well  as  to  the  Abbot  Professor. 

The  first  reason  is  that  the  subject  is  so  represented  in  the 
Constitution  and  Additional  Statutes,  which  make  known, 
clearly  and  without  any  concealment  the  will  of  the  Original 
Founders,  i.  e.,  the  Founders  of  the  Institution. 

My  second  reason  is,  that  the  Associate  Founders  so  under- 
stood it,  and  acted  accordingly.  But  I  have  a  third  reason 
which  is,  that  the  Trustees  themselves  have  all  along  con- 
sidered the  Constitution  as  extending  over  the  whole  Institu- 
tion, and  as  authoritatively  directing  all  its  concerns,  n<jt 
excepting  the  Theological  opinions  of  any  one  of  the  Professors. 

The  first  act  of  the  Trustees  respecting  the  Seminary  was 
their  accepting  the  Constitution  and  the  funds  offered  by 
Samuel  Abbot,  Phoebe  Phillips  and  John  Phillips  and  thus 
establishing  the  Institution.  By  this  act  (which  took  place 
Sept.  2,  1807)  the  Trustees  gave  their  sanction  to  all  the  pro- 
visions of  the  Constitution,  and  among  the  rest  to  the  llth, 
12th  and  13th  Articles,  which  relate  to  the  creed  of  "  every 
Professor  in  the  Seminary  "  and  pledged  themselves  to  carry 
these  provisions  into  effect.  Their  next  act  was  receiving 
from  Samuel  Abbot  the  appointment  of  his  Professor  and 
providing  for  his  support  according  to  the  Constitution. 
Again  on  the  4th  of  May  1808  they  accepted  the  Additional 
Statutes  in  which  the  Founders  of  the  Seminary  take  pains 
to  re-assert  and  re-enact  the  provisions  of  the  Constitution  re- 
specting the  creed  to  be  subscribed  by  every  Professor  in  the 
Seminary.  The  act  of  the  Trustees  implied  a  sanction  to 
all  this  and  an  engagement  to  see  it  carried  into  effect,  i.  e., 


400       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

to  see  that  every  Professor  in  the  Seminary  subscribe  to  the 
Shorter  Catechism  and  to  the  Creed  which  was  annexed  to  it. 
This  was  the  provision  of  the  first  article  of  the  Additional 
Statutes  which  the  Trustees  accepted  and  sanctioned  as  a  part 
of  the  Constitution  of  the  Seminary.  But  the  Trustees  in  the 
faithful  discharge  of  their  arduous  duties,  have  done  more  than 
all  that  has  been  specified  to  sanction  the  principle  that  the 
Constitution  with  all  its  provisions  is  to  extend  its  influence 
over  this  whole  Theological  establishment  and  to  direct  as  to  the 
creed  of  its  Professors  as  well  as  all  its  other  concerns.  I 
refer  now  to  the  important  business  of  the  Trustees  in  making 
a  system  of  laws.  In  this  system  they  have  embodied  most 
of  the  provisions  of  the  Founders  and  have  made  such  Ad- 
ditional regulations  as  they  are  authorized  to  make  by  the 
31st  Article  of  the  Constitution.  The  point  I  here  have  in 
view  is  this;  that  in  the  framing  of  these  laws  there  is,  from 
beginning  to  end,  a  general  and  manifest  recognition  of  the  au- 
thority of  the  Constitution  in  regard  to  all  the  concerns  of  the 
Seminary,  and  particularly  in  regard  to  the  Theological  opinions 
of  the  Professors.  This  is  perfectly  obvious.  Whatever  reg- 
ulations are  found  in  the  Constitution  are  here  set  forth  as 
regulations  for  the  whole  Seminary.  But  there  are  a  few 
examples  which  have  a  special  bearing  upon  the  present 
subject.  My  reference  will  be  to  the  last  edition  of  the 
laws. 

In  Chap.  III.,  Article  4th,  it  is  said:  "every  Professor  in 

this  Seminary  shall  be of  sound  and  orthodox 

principles  in  divinity,  according  to  that  form  of  sound  words 
or  system  of  evangelical  doctrines  drawn  from  the  scriptures, 
and  denominated  the  '  Westminster  Assembly's  Shorter 
Catechism.' " 

This  article  authoritatively  prescribes  the  religious  princi- 
ples of  every  Professor  in  this  Seminary.  Now  where  does 
this  article  of  the  laws  come  from  ? 

Why,  it  is  taken  verbatim  from  the  Constitution,  Art.  llth. 
The  Legislators  have  thus  placed  all  the  Professors  under  the 


DR.    WOODS'    PLEA.  401 

authority  of  the  Constitution,  and  have  required  that  their 
religious  principles  should  accord  with  the  Catechism.  This 
is  applied  to  "  every  Professor  in  this  Seminary,"  to  the 
Associate  Professors,  as  well  as  others,  although  the  Associate 
Statutes  have  no  such  article,  and  it  can  be  applied  to  the 
Associate  only  on  the  principle,  that  all  the  Professors  are 
alike  placed  under  the  Constitution  and  are  required  in  all 
respects  to  conform  to  its  provisions,  particularly  as  to  their 
religious  belief. 

Laws,  Chap.  III.,  Article  5th,  "every  person  appointed  or 
elected  a  Professor  in  this  Seminary  shall  ....  publicly  make 
and  subscribe  the  following  declaration — '  I  believe  there  is 

one  and  but  one  living  and  true  God,'  "  etc., Now  where 

is  this  Law  taken  from  ?  Not  exactly  from  the  Associate 
Statutes.  For  those  Statutes  only  prescribe  the  Creed  of 
"  every  Professor  on  the  Associate  Foundation,"  whereas  this 
Law  prescribes  the  Creed  of  "  every  Professor  in  this  Sem- 
inary." The  Associate  Statutes  never  do  this;  but  confine 
their  regulations  respecting  a  Creed  to  the  Associate  Pro- 
fessors. This  Law  then,  as  to  the  extent  of  its  application, 
must  have  been  taken  from  the  Additional  Statutes,  which  are 
a  part  of  the  Constitution.  Here  (Art.  1st,  Add.  Stat.,)  we 
find  the  very  words  used  at  the  beginning  of  the  Law  re- 
ferred to, — "every  person  appointed  or  elected  a  Professor  in 
this  Seminary."  These  Additional  Statutes  also  require  that 
every  Professor  in  the  Seminary  shall  subscribe  to  the  Creed 
which  is  repeated  in  the  Laws,  and  they  just  as  positively 
require  something  not  repeated  in  the  Laws.  They  require 
that  "  every  Professor  in  this  Seminary  shall  subscribe  to  the 
Assembly's  Shorter  Catechism  and  to  the  other  Creed  in  addi- 
tion to  it.  Thus  the  Laws  take  a  part  of  the  provisions  of  the 
Additional  Statutes,  and  leave  out  a  part.  Although  they 
contain  the  very  provision  of  the  Constitution,  Art.  llth,  to 
wit,  that,  "  every  Professor  in  this  Seminary  shall  be  a  man 
of  sound  and  orthodox  principles  in  divinity,  according  to  the 
Assembly's  Shorter  Catechism,"  thus  exactly  following  the 


402       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

Constitution ;  they  omit  the  requisition  of  the  Constitution  as 
to  the  Creed  to  be  subscribed.  They  do  not  require  that  every 
Professor  shall  subscribe  to  the  Catechism  and  yet  they  do 
require  that  his  religious  opinions  shall  agree  with  the  Cate- 
chism. The  one  is  inserted,  the  other  is  omitted;  when  both 
are  equally  required  and  required  by  the  same  authority,  and 
that  which  is  inserted  in  the  Laws;  namely,  that  the  Profes- 
sors in  their  religious  opinions  shall  agree  with  the  Catechism 
is  tantamount  to  that  which  is  omitted,  namely,  that  they  shall 
subscribe  to  the  Catechism.  Is  it  not  very  evident  that  if  one 
is  inserted  in  the  Laws,  both  should  be;  and  if  anything 
requires  the  omission  of  one,  it  requires  the  omission  of  both  ? 
Still  by  inserting  one  of  them  and  inserting  it  entirely  on  the 
ground  of  the  Constitution,  the  Legislators  distinctly  recog- 
nize the  authority  of  the  Constitution  to  determine  what  shall 
be  the  religious  opinions  of  "  every  Professor  in  the  Seminary." 
There  is  another  thing  which  strikes  one  who  examines 
the  Laws,  namely,  when  there  is  anything  peculiar  to  the 
Associate  Professors,  it  is  noticed  as  such,  and  is  of  course 
taken  from  the  Associate  Statutes.  But  whatever  pertains  to 
aU  the  Professors  in  the  Seminary  is  taken  from  the  Constitu- 
tion,— implying  the  same  thing  as  before  mentioned,  namely, 
that  the  provisions  of  the  Constitution  are  binding  on  all  the 
Professors  alike.  This  distinction  is  made  in  the  Article  of 
the  Laws  above  referred  to  (Chap.  III.,  Art.  4th).  The  Article 
first  prescribes  what  shall  be  the  character  and  the  religious 
principles  of  "  every  Professor  in  this  Seminary,"  to  wit,  that 
he  shall  be  learned  and  pious,  etc.,  and  "shall  be  a  man 
of  sound  and  orthodox  principles  in  divinity,  according  to 
the  Westminster  Assembly's  Shorter  Catechism."  It  then  pro- 
ceeds to  say,  "  if  on  the  Associate  Foundation,"  etc.,  all  being 
taken  from  the  Asso.  Statutes,  Art.  2d. l  This  mode  of  pro- 

»  In  transferring  this  Art.  of  the  Asso.  Statutes  to  the  Laws  one  sen- 
tence is  omitted,  and  one  to  which  the  Asso.  Founders  attached  no  small 
consequence,  namely,  that  every  Associate  Professor  shall  be  "an  orthodox 
and  consistent  Calvinist."  This  sentence  is  omitted  in  the  Laws,  while  all 
that  precedes  and  all  that  follows  it  is  introduced. 


DR.    WOODS'    PLEA.  403 

ceeding  in  forming  the  Laws  shows  clearly  that  the  Legis- 
lators regarded  the  Constitution  as  obligatory  upon  the 
Associate  Professors  as  well  as  the  Abbot  Professor.  But 
what  I  notice  in  the  Laws  as  most  directly  to  the  purpose, 
is  the  closing  paragraph  in  Art.  5th,  Chap.  III.,  where  it  is  said : 
"  No  man  shall  be  continued  as  Professor  in  this  Seminary,  who 
shall  not  continue  to  approve  himself,  to  the  satisfaction  of 
the  Trustees,  a  man  of  sound  and  orthodox  principles  in  di- 
vinity, agreeably  to  the  system  of  evangelical  doctrines  con- 
tained in  the  Westminster  Assembly's  Shorter  Catechism,  and 
more  concisely  delineated  in  the  aforesaid  Creed,"  i.  e.,  the 
Creed  taken  from  the  Asso.  Statutes,  which  by  the  Addi- 
tional Statutes  is  added  to  the  Catechism.  So  making  out  the 
Creed  to  be  subscribed  by  every  Professor  in  the  Seminary. 
This  is  the  exact  provision  of  the  Additional  Statutes,  which 
were  made  for  the  very  purpose  of  satisfying,  and  which  did 
satisfy  the  Associate  Founders.  In  this  Law  the  Legislators 
distinctly  recognized  the  authority  of  the  Constitution  and 
Additional  Statutes  in  regard  to  every  Professor  in  the  Sem- 
inary. They  had  no  other  warrant  than  what  the  Constitu- 
tion gave  them  for  making  the  Catechism  the  standard  by 
which  to  try  the  orthodoxy  of  every  Professor.  And  yet  they 
did  make  it  the  standard.  Nor  had  they  any  other  warrant 
than  what  the  Additional  Statutes  gave  them  for  making  the 
Associate  Creed  any  part  of  the  standard,  by  which  to  try  the 
orthodoxy  of  all  the  Professors.  For  there  is  not  a  word  said 
anywhere  else  about  adding  that  other  Creed  to  the  Cate- 
chism and  so  making  out  the  standard  to  which  the  faith  of 
all  the  Professors  is  to  conform.  As  the  Law  now  stands,  and 
doubtless  it  stands  right,  the  Trustees,  are  to  proceed  in 
judging  every  Professor,  exactly  in  accordance  with  the  Con- 
stitution and  Additional  Statutes,  making  the  Catechism  and 
the  Creed  annexed,  the  standard  of  orthodoxy,  requiring  every 
Professor  to  conform  to  it  and  removing  every  one  from  hie 
office  who  does  not  conform.  So  the  Law  reads.  Now  all 
that  I  ask  for,  is,  that  the  provision  of  the  Additional  Statutes 


404      HISTOEY  OF  ANDOVER   THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

be  not  only  partly,  but  fully  observed  and  that  the  standard 
by  which  the  Trustees  are  to  judge  whether  a  Professor  be 
"  sound  and  orthodox,"  be  the  same,  exactly  the  same  as  that 
to  which  he  has  subscribed.  Otherwise,  if,  according  to  the 
Laws,  the  Trustees  should,  in  any  case,  proceed  to  try  a 
Professor  and  to  judge  of  his  orthodoxy  according  to  the 
Catechism  and  the  Associate  Creed  conjoined,  he  could  ob- 
ject, and  say,  I  never  subscribed  to  the  Catechism  and  why 
should  I  be  judged  by  it?  And  would  he  not  have  some  good 
reason  to  say  this  ?  For  who  would  willingly  be  judged 
by  any  standard,  except  that  to  which  he  has  assented  and 
subscribed  ?  A  Professor  in  such  a  case  could  plead,  that  as 
the  Laws  had  let  him  off  from  the  Constitution  as  to  sub- 
scribing to  the  Catechism,  they  ought  to  be  consistent  and 
let  him  off  also  as  to  being  tried  and  judged  by  the  Catechism. 

Shall  I  touch  upon  one  point  more  ?  It  may  possibly  be 
said  that  the  very  act  of  the  Associate  Founders  making 
another  creed  for  their  Professors  implies  that  the  Catechism 
was  to  be  set  aside  and  their  creed  put  in  its  place,  as  the  creed 
to  be  subscribed  by  all  the  Professors. 

Reply — If  this  should  in  any  sense  be  implied,  it  could  be 
so  only  in  relation  to  the  Professors  on  the  Associate  Founda- 
tion. The  Associate  Founders  never  undertook  to  legislate  in 
respect  to  any  other.  And  even  if  .they  had  meant  that  their 
creed  should  displace  the  Catechism  in  regard  to  their  Profess- 
ors, still  the  Catechism  would,  most  certainly,  remain  ac- 
cording to  the  Constitution  as  the  creed  of  the  Abbot  Professor. 

Secondly.  The  Associate  Founders  were  open-hearted  m en , 
and  would  certainly  have  said  that  they  meant  their  creed  to 
be  subscribed,  exclusively  of  the  creed  prescribed  in  the  Con- 
stitution if  that  had  been  their  meaning.  But  they  never  said 
this.  And  what  is  more,  if  they  had  said  it  and  had  un- 
dertaken to  set  aside  a  most  important  provision  of  the  Con- 
stitution, the  Trustees,  who  were  already  bound  by  the 
Constitution,  would  never  have  accepted  their  Statutes. 
(See  Constitution,  Art.  32d.) 


DR.    WOODS'    PLEA.  405 

Thirdly.  There  certainly  was  no  inconsistency  between 
the  Associate  Creed  and  the  Catechism  in  the  mind  of  any  of 
the  Founders.  On  the  contrary  they  considered  them  per- 
fectly consistent.  And  to  show  this  the  Original  Founders, 
in  their  Additional  Statutes  put  them  both  together  and  thus 
made  out  the  creed,  the  joint  creed  which  they  said  should 
be  subscribed  by  every  Professor  in  this  Seminary.  And  with 
this  arrangement  the  Associate  Founders  were  entirely  satis- 
fied. And  it  was  on  the  ground  of  this  very  provision  in  the 
Additional  Statutes,  as  to  the  joint  creed  for  all  the  Profess- 
ors, that  the  Associate  Founders  finally  consented  to  found 
two  Professorships  in  the  Institution.  Till  that  was  done 
they  held  back,  But  when  the  Additional  Statutes  were  put 
into  their  hands,  (as  they  were  a  long  time  before  they  were 
communicated  to  the  Board,)  the  Associate  Founders  said, — 
if  these  Additional  Statutes  are  executed  and  then  accepted  by 
the  Board,  and  if  our  creed  is  thus  annexed  to  the  Catechism, 
and  both  together  are,  in  this  way,  made  the  Confession  of 
faith  to  be  subscribed  by  every  Professor  in  the  Seminary,  it 
is  all  we  ask,  and  we  will  forthwith  make  over  our  funds 
and  communicate  our  Statutes  to  the  Board  of  Trustees.  They 
said  it  after  full  consultation  among  themselves.  And  they 
acted  accordingly.  Their  Statutes  and  the  Additional  Stat- 
utes were  communicated  to  the  Board  at  the  same  meeting. 
There  was  a  condition  on  both  sides.  On  the  part  of  the  Original 
Founders,  the  condition  was  expressed  in  the  preamble  to  their 
Additional  Statutes;  to  wit,  "  Provided  the  Trustees  shall  accept 
the  Statutes  of  the  Associate  Founders,"  etc.  (See  Preamble.) 

On  the  other  side,  there  was  a  corresponding  condition 
fully  agreed  upon  and  understood  between  the  parties,  that  is, 
the  Associate  Founders  agreed  to  make  over  their  funds  to  the 
Board,  if  the  Additional  Statutes  should  be  accepted  and  if  the 
Original  Founders  should  thus  unite  with  them  in  these  two 
essential  things,  namely,  in  one  and  the  same  joint  Board  of  Visi- 
tors/or the  whole  Seminary  and  in  one  and  the  same  joint  creed 
for  all  the  Professors.  On  that  memorable  day,  May  4th,  A.  D. 


406       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

1808,  the  union  was  formed,  and  formed  in  the  very  way  and  on 
the  very  conditions  just  stated. 

But  if  things  were  so,  then,  as  the  Original  Founders  ex- 
pressly ordered  that  the  Associate  Creed  should  be  joined  with 
the  Catechism  to  form  the  confession  of  faith  for  all  the  Pro- 
fessors, why  did  not  the  Associate  Founders,  on  their  part,  ex- 
pressly order  that  the  Catechism  should  be  joined  with  their 
creed?  Why  did  they  not  say  in  so  many  words  that  the 
two  symbols  together  should  constitute  the  confession  of 
faith  for  their  Professors  ? 

My  reply  is :  the  two  Sets  of  Founders  were  in  very  dif- 
ferent circumstances  and  stood  in  different  relations  to  each 
other.  The  Associate  Founders  attached  themselves  to  an  In- 
stitution already  existing.  They  came  in  as  Founders  of  Pro- 
fessorships under  a  Constitution  already  formed  and  established. 
Their  doing  this  after  knowing  what  the  Constitution  was, 
implied  their  consent  to  all  its  provisions.  It  implied  that 
they  adopted  the  Constitution  just  as  it  was ; — I  mean  just  as 
it  was  after  the  Additional  Statutes  were  made  and  accepted. 
Their  making  the  Associate  Creed  and  then  adopting  the  Con- 
stitution was  tantamount  to  saying  that  the  Creed  provided 
in  the  Constitution  should  be  joined  with  their  creed,  and 
make  one  joint  Confession  of  Faith.  To  effect  this,  nothing 
was  necessary,  but  for  them  to  adopt  the  Constitution,  and 
come  in  under  it  and  require  their  Professors  to  conform  to 
it.  All  this  they  did.  But  the  Original  Founders,  who  leg- 
islated for  the  whole  Seminary,  did  not  come  in  under  the  Associ- 
ate Statutes.  And  the  provision  of  the  Associate  Statutes  re- 
specting a  creed  could  never  have  been  binding  upon  the 
Abbot  Professor,  had  it  not  been  for  the  Additional  Statutes, 
in  which  the  Original  Founders  expressly  ordained  that  it 
should  be  binding  upon  all  the  Professors  in  the  Seminary,  and 
that  the  Associate  Creed,  together  with  the  Catechism,  should 
be  the  confession  of  faith  for  every  one  of  them.  There  was 
no  other  way,  in  which  the  Original  Founders  could  incor- 
porate the  Associate  Creed  as  a  part  of  their  Creed.  They 


DR.    WOODS'    PLEA.  407 

must  make  and  did  make  an  addition  to  the  Constitution. 
These  remarks  are  sufficient  to  show  why  the  two  sets  of 
Founders  proceeded  in  different  ways  in  forming  one  and  the 
same  creed  for  all  Professors. 

But  how  can  it  be  accounted  for,  according  to  the  fore- 
going statements,  that  the  practice  was,  as  it  was,  from  the 
beginning,  and  that,  for  many  years,  there  was  no  regard 
shown  to  the  provision  of  the  Constitution,  respecting  the 
Creed  to  be  subscribed,  and  that  the  Associate  Creed  did 
really  displace  and  nullify  the  Catechism  ?  I  acknowledge 
this  to  be  a  strange  affair.  It  is  indeed  the  great  stumbling- 
block.  Arid  all  I  can  do  to  solve  the  difficulty,  is  to  refer 
to  some  of  the  facts  in  the  case. 

After  the  Institution  was  established  and  the  Associate 
Founders  received,  and  when  the  time  to  commence  opera- 
tions drew  near,  all  concerned  in  the  great  enterprise  were 
not  only  completely  occupied  with  their  duties,  but  pressed 
and  almost  overwhelmed  with  cares  and  anxieties  and 
fears.  In  this  state  of  things  the  whole  business  of  draw- 
ing out  the  Creed  and  preparing  it  for  the  subscription, 
was  committed  to  one  man,  Dr.  Pearson,  then  President  of 
the  Board.  He  was  an  old  man,  and  more  liable  to  mis- 
takes and  inadvertences,  than  we  were  then  aware  of.  But 
so  it  was.  All  had  confidence  in  him ;  and  no  one  felt  it  to 
be  necessary  to  keep  an  eye  on  what  he  did.  It  was  a  fact, 
that  he  drew  out  the  Creed  for  the  Abbot  Professor,  as  well 
as  for  the  Associate  Professors  from  the  Associate  Statutes  alone, 
entirely  disregarding  all  the  provisions  of  the  Constitution 
and  Additional  Statutes  and  proceeding  in  the  business  just 
as  though  the  Constitution  and  Additional  Statutes  had  no 
existence,  and  as  though  the  Associate  Founders  had  been 
the  only  Founders  of  the  Seminary  and  their  Statutes  the 
only  Constitution  of  the  Seminary.  Now  it  is  high  time 
that  a  mistake  so  obvious  and  fundamental  should  be  cor- 
rected. A  wrong  practice  cannot  become  right  by  long  con- 
tinuance. My  connection  with  the  Seminary  for  one  third 


408       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

of  a  century  has  produced  a  growing  conviction  in  my  mind 
that  fidelity  to  Christ  and  His  cause,  and  particularly  to  the 
interests  of  this  Seminary,  imperiously  requires,  that  all 
connected  with  it  should  maintain  an  exact  and  sacred  re- 
gard to  the  provisions  of  the  Founders  respecting  the 
religious  principles  here  to  be  inculcated. 

I  now  present  to  you  my  request, — grounded  on  the 
reasons  which  I  have  stated.  I  am,  by  the  Providence  of 
God,  invested  with  the  office  of  Abbot  Professor  of  Christian 
Theology  in  this  Seminary.  The  Associate  Statutes  have  no 
relation  to  me.  My  whole  duty  as  a  Professor  is  marked  out 
in  the  Constitution  and  Additional  Statutes.  My  wish  is 
that  my  creed  as  Abbot  Professor,  may  be  taken  from  these 
two  instruments,  and  from  these  alone,  and  may  be  in  all  re- 
spects just  what  the  Founder  of  my  Professorship  and  those 
associated  with  him  in  founding  the  Seminary,  have  ex- 
pressly required  it  to  be.  As  it  now  stands  in  the  Laws,  it 
is  made  out  entirely  from  the  statutes  of  other  Professor- 
ships, to  the  total  neglect  of  the  Statutes  which  relate  to 
the  Abbot  Professorship.  Singular  as  this  may  be,  you  will 
find  it  exactly  so.  The  Constitution  of  the  Seminary,  which 
has  a  right  to  prescribe  and  does  prescribe  the  creed  of  the 
Abbot  Professor  and  of  every  other  Professor,  has  had  no 
influence — it  has  been  wholly  set  aside,  as  of  no  use,  in 
drawing  out  the  creed.  With  me,  it  is  a  matter  of  conscience 
to  conform,  in  the  declaration  of  my  faith,  to  those  statutes 
under  which  I  am  placed.  I  regret  that  I  have  not  always  done 
it.  And  should  it  please  God  to  spare  my  life  and  continue  me 
in  my  office  two  years  longer,  I  hope  to  repeat  the  creed  and  the 
promise,  in  every  iota,  as  the  Founders  of  the  Seminary  required. 

Confiding  most  heartily  in  your  wisdom  and  fidelity, 
and  wishing  you  the  guidance  and  comforts  of  the  Holy 
Spirit,  I  am,  gentlemen, 

Your  obedient  servant, 

LEONARD  WOODS. 

THEOLOGICAL  SEMINAKY, 
Andover,  Aug.  30,  1841. 


HON.  JOHN  H.  CLIFFORD'S  OPINION.  4.09 


XIV. 

HON.  JOHN  H.  CLIFFORD'S  OPINION. 

Boston,  May  19,  1853. 
MY  DEAR  SIR: — 

I  have  read  with  great  interest  the  manuscript  portions 
of  your  History  of  the  Theological  Seminary  at  Andover 
which  you  submitted  to  my  examination.  The  narrative 
contained  in  the  First  Chapter  is  written  with  singular  clear- 
ness and  precision  and  cannot  fail,  I  think,  to  impress  every 
intelligent  and  unbiased  mind  with  the  conviction  that  the 
historical  facts  of  the  union  which  was  so  carefully  and 
deliberately  established  by  the  Founders  of  the  Institution 
with  the  Associate  Founders  actually  necessitate  the  con- 
clusion to  which  the  argument  developed  in  the  Second 
Chapter  so  irresistibly  leads. 

That  argument  does  not,  however,  in  my  judgment,  need 
the  support  that  is  derived  from  this  narrative,  or  from  the 
cumulative  testimony  which  is  to  be  found  in  your  personal 
declarations  or  in  those  of  Mr.  Farrar  respecting  the  known 
intentions  and  purposes  of  the  Founders  and  the  Associate 
Founders.  It  stands  firmly  upon  the  basis  of  a  just  con- 
struction of  the  original  Constitution,  the  Additional  Statutes, 
the  Associate  Statutes,  and  the  Associate  Creed,  as  united 
with  the  Shorter  Catechism  and  Constituting  together  a 
standard  of  Doctrine  and  a  Confession  of  Faith.  You  are 
aware  that  it  is  one  of  the  leading  principles  of  judicial  inter- 
pretation that  the  true  meaning  of  any  written  instrument 
must  be  derived  from  the  language  of  the  instrument  itself 
without  resorting  to  extraneous  evidence  to  ascertain  the 
intent  of  the  paity,  whose  purposes  are  expressed  in  it.  And 
I  am  clearly  of  the  opinion,  upon  a  careful  perusal  of  these 
Statutes  taken  by  themselves  and  subjected  to  this  vigorous 
judicial  test  without  the  aid  of  the  decisive  facts  ot  this 


410      HISTORY  OF  ANDOVER   THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

history,  so  admirably  set  forth  in  tt^  First  Chapter,  that 
they  are  susceptible  of  no  other  construction  than  that  which 
you  have  given  them.  Thus  construed,  they  present  a 
symmetrical  and  harmonious  whole,  and  full  effect  is  given 
to  the  declared  intentions  of  all  the  parties  to  them,  and 
I  entertain  no  doubt  that  if  they  should  be  subjected  to  a 
judicial  examination,  it  would  result  in  the  adoption,  by  any 
competent  judicial  tribunal,  of  your  conclusions. 

I  am,  dear  sir,  with  the  highest  respect  and  esteem, 
Your  friend  and  obedient  servant, 

JOHN  H.  CLIFFORD. 
REV.  DB.  WOODS. 

P.  S. — If  you  will  permit  me  to  venture  upon  a  slight 
verbal  criticism,  I  would  suggest  to  you  the  substitution  of 
some  synonym  for  the  word  "  coalition  "  whenever  it  occurs 
in  the  Second  Chapter.  The  debauched  political  morals  of 
Massachusetts  within  the  past  two  years,  have  given  to  all 
men  who  retain  the  old-fashioned  respect  for  principle,  a 
certain  unsavory  association  with  the  otherwise  innocent 
word.  And  if  the  teachings  of  the  Seminary  at  Andover 
fulfill  their  office,  in  establishing  a  higher  tone  of  Christian 
morality  among  us,  neither  the  word  nor  the  thing  are 
likely  to  grow  in  favor  with  good  men  in  time  to  come. 


XV. 

JUDGE  JOEL  PARKER'S  OPINION. 

Cambridge,  Oct.  8,  1853. 
EEV.  LEONARD  WOODS,  D.D. 

Dear  Sir: — I  have  examined  the  documents  which  you 
submitted  to  my  inspection,  viz.,  the  Constitution  or  Statutes 
of  the  Original  Founders  of  the  Theological  Seminary  in 
Andover,  Phoebe  Phillips,  John  Phillips,  Jr.,  and  Samuel 
Abbot,  adopted  August  31,  1807 ;  the  Statutes  of  the  Asso- 


JUDGE  JOEL  PARKER'S  OPINION.  411 

ciate  Founders,  Moses  Brown,  William  Bartlett,  and  John 
Norris,  adopted  March  21,  1808 ;  and  the  Additional  Statutes 
of  the  Original  Founders,  dated  May  3,  1808,  with  a  view  to 
the  formation  of  an  opinion  upon  the  questions  proposed, 
viz. — I.  What  declaration,  subscription,  etc.,  do  the  Founders 
require  of  the  Professors  ?  II.  Do  the  Founders  require  the 
same  of  all  the  Professors  ? 

There  seems  to  be  no  doubt  that  Phoebe  Phillips,  John 
Phillips,  Jr.,  and  Samuel  Abbot  are  to  be  regarded  as  the 
Founders  of  the  Theological  Seminary,  the  Legislature  hav- 
ing given  the  Trustees  of  Phillips  Academy  the  necessary 
corporate  powers  for  the  reception  and  administration  of 
such  a  charity. 

They  had  power  therefore  to  prescribe  the  rules  and 
regulations  by  which  their  charity  should  be  governed  and 
administered,  and  did  so  in  what  is  called  the  Constitution 
of  the  Seminary,  or  the  Statutes  of  the  Original  Founders. 
The  Founders  provided  for  buildings  and  for  the  endowment 
of  one  Professorship,  but  their  Statutes  contemplated  the 
establishment  of  other  Professorships,  upon  their  Foun- 
dation, by  other  persons,  and  to  some  extent  enacted  rules 
for  the  government  of  such  Professorships  and  regulated  the 
duties  of  the  Professors. 

In  the  31st  Article  of  the  Constitution  they  enact  that  all 
Professors,  etc.,  shall  be  under  the  immediate  inspection  of 
the  Trustees,  "and  be  regulated  and  managed  by  them  in 
strict  conformity  to  this  Constitution,  and  to  the  Statutes  and 
will  of  every  Founder  of  a  Professorship,"  etc.,  and  they 
authorize  the  Trustees  to  make  Additional  regulations  ("not 
inconsistent  with  the  regulations  established  in  this  Con- 
stitution, nor  with  the  Statutes  or  will  of  any  Founder  or 
Donor,  nor  with  the  objects  of  the  Institution,  nor  in  any 
degree  avoiding  them  or  either  of  them  "). 

And  in  the  32d  Article  they  declared  that  every  Founder 
of  a  Professorship,  etc.,  "  will  have  the  exclusive  right  of 
prescribing  the  regulations  and  Statutes  to  be  observed  by 


412       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

the  said  Trustees  in  conducting  the  concerns  of  the  same; 
said  Regulations  and  Statutes  being  always  consistent  with 
the  principles  and  object  of  this  Institution.'' 

The  Trustees  having  accepted  the  donations  of  the 
Founders,  under  the  regulations  and  limitations  which  they 
prescribed,  are  bound  by  this  Constitution  and  have  no  power 
to  alter  it,  arid  any  one  who  saw  fit  to  build  upon  the 
Foundation  thus  laid  must  do  so  in  conformity  with  this 
Constitution  of  the  Founders.  He  could  not  repeal  the 
Statutes  of  the  Founders,  or  prescribe  rules  in  subversion  of 
them  or  inconsistent  with  them  or  the  principles  and  objects 
of  the  Institution  as  set  forth  in  them. 

The  Associate  Founders  did  not  attempt  to  organize  a 
new  Seminary,  but  made  their  donations  "  to  be  applied  to 
the  maintenance  of  two  Professors  in  the  Theological  Institu- 
tion or  Seminary  lately  Founded,"  "  whose  professional 
duties  shall  be  assigned  according  to  the  Constitution  of 
the  Seminary,"  etc.,  and  they  enacted  certain  Statutes  for 
the  administration  of  their  charity,  as  they  had  a  right  to 
do  under  the  Constitution. 

Coming  then  to  the  declarations  and  subscriptions  to  be 
made  by  the  Professors,  it  appears  that  the  12th  Article  of 
the  Constitution  required  "  every  person  appointed  or  elected 
a  Professor  in  the  Seminary  on  the  day  of  his  inauguration 
and  in  the  presence  of  the  Trustees,  publicly  to  make  and 
subscribe  a  solemn  declaration  of  his  faith  in  divine  revelation 
and  in  the  fundamental  and  distinguishing  doctrines  of  the 
Gospel  of  Christ  as  summarily  expressed  in  the  Westminster 
Assembly's  Shorter  Catechism." 

The  particular  formula  is  not  described,  but  in  some  form 
the  faith  of  the  Professor-elect  in  the  fundamental  and  dis- 
tinguishing doctrines  of  the  gospel,  as  summarily  expressed 
in  the  Shorter  Catechism,  was  required  to  be  declared  in 
writing  and  subscribed  by  him.  It  is  not  perhaps  necessary 
that  the  declaration  should  be  in  the  words  iised  in  the 
article,  those  words  not  appearing  to  constitute  a  prescribed 


JUDGE  JOEL  PARKER'S  OPINION.  413 

formula.  If  done  in  the  form  of  a  creed  which  plainly  and 
clearly  embraces  all  the  fundamental  and  distinguishing  doc- 
trines of  the  gospel  as  expressed  in  the  Shorter  Catechism,  I 
am  not  prepared  to  say  that  it  would  not  be  thus  far  a  com- 
pliance with  the  regulation.  But  nothing  short  of  a  written 
declaration  which  in  some  form  sets  forth  the  faith  of  the 
Professor-elect,  in  the  doctrines  as  expressed  in  that  Cat- 
echism can  constitute  a  compliance  with  that  regulation. 
That  rule  is  by  its  express  terms  applicable  to  every  person 
appointed  or  elected  a  Professor  in  the  Seminary.  The 
Associate  Founders  had  no  power  to  repeal  or  abrogate  it, 
nor  do  they  appear  to  have  attempted  so  to  do.  They  do  not 
in  their  Statutes  require  a  declaration  in  similar  terms,  but 
they  require  of  each  Professor  on  their  Foundation  to  make 
and  subscribe  a  declaration  of  his  faith  in  divine  revelation 
and  in  the  fundamental  and  distinguishing  doctrines  of  the 
gospel  as  expressed  in  a  "  creed  "  which  is  set  down  verbatim. 

Now  if  the  Creed  embraces  all  the  Fundamental  and  dis- 
tinguishing doctrines  of  the  gospel  as  summarily  expressed 
in  the  Shorter  Catechism,  the  Associate  Founders  required, 
thus  far,  of  their  Professors,  what  the  original  Constitution 
required.  They  had  authority  to  require  more  so  long  as  their 
requisitions  were  consistent  with  the  original  Constitution 
and  the  principles  and  objects  of  the  Institution,  and  they  did 
require  something  beyond  the  requisitions  of  the  12th  Article 
if  the  Creed  embraces  more  than  the  Catechism.  They  might 
have  required  less  if  they  wished,  but  this  would  not  relieve 
the  Professor-elect  from  the  obligation  of  the  12th  Article  of 
the  Constitution  or  Statutes  of  the  Founders.  That  the  As- 
sociate Founders  did  not  intend  to  exempt  the  Professors  on 
their  Foundation  from  any  duty  required  by  the  Statutes  of 
the  Founders  is  apparent  from  the  promise  which  they  pre- 
scribed, in  the  Second  Article  of  their  Statutes,  following  the 
Creed,  a  part  of  which  is,  "  I  will  religiously  conform  to  the 
Constitution  and  Laws  of  the  Seminary,"  etc. 

Without  entering  into  the  question  what  difference  exists 


414       HISTORY  OF  ANDOVER   THEOLOGICAL   SEMINARY. 

between  a  declaration  of  faith  according  to  the  12th  Article 
of  the  Constitution  and  a  declaration  of  faith  as  expressed  in 
the  "  Creed,"  but  assuming  that  the  Constitution  requires  a  dec- 
laration in  some  particulars  beyond  that  embraced  in  the 
Creed,  the  Professors  on  the  Associate  Foundation  are  bound 
to  make  that  declaration  in  addition  to  the  declaration  of  their 
belief  as  contained  in  the  Creed,  unless  they  are  relieved  from 
the  necessity  of  so  doing  by  the  Additional  Statutes  of  the  Ori- 
ginal Founders.  The  Founders  with  the  assent  of  the  Trustees 
might  exonerate  them.  Possibly  in  virtue  of  their  reserved 
power  to  make  additional  regulations  they  had  authority  so 
to  do  without  such  assent.  But  upon  the  assumption,  just 
stated,  that  the  declaration  originally  required  goes  further 
than  the  Creed — it  seems  clear  that  the  Additional  Statutes 
have  not  repealed  the  obligation  imposed  by  the  12th  Article 
of  the  Constitution  upon  every  Professor-elect.  The  Addi- 
tional Statutes  provide  for  a  declaration  of  faith  in  the  same 
formula  as  that  set  forth  in  the  Associate  Statutes,  viz.,  the 
Creed.  But  it  is  by  superadding  to  the  original  declaration 
required  by  the  12th  Article,  leaving  that  as  it  existed  before, 
making  the  new,  therefore,  an  addition  to  what  was  before  re- 
quired, and  it  is  moreover  expressly  said  to  be  an  "  addition 
to  be  inserted  in  "  the  former  statute,  not  as  a  substitute  for  it. 
There  is  then  only  one  of  two  modes  in  which  it  can  be 
maintained  that  the  original  obligation  is  superseded  and  ex- 
tinguished. One  that  the  Creed  contains  a  declaration  of  faith 
which  embraces  all  the  fundamental  and  distinguishing  doc- 
trines summarily  expressed  in  the  Catechism,  which  is  not 
supposed  to  be  the  fact.  For  if  so,  there  would  be  no  occa- 
sion for  controversy.  The  other,  that  the  Creed  is  so  con- 
tradictory to  some  of  those  doctrines  as  expressed  in  the 
Catechism  that  the  two  cannot  stand  together,  and  that  the 
last,  therefore,  although  it  is  expressly  said  to  be  in  "addition," 
necessarily  repeals  the  original  by  reason  of  the  repugnancy. 
Probably  this  will  not  be  contended. 
That  the  Creed  left  out  some  things  contained  in  the  Cate- 


JUDGE  JOL-L  PARKER'S  OPINION.  415 

chism  and  adopted  some  things  not  contained  in  it,  would  not 
be  sufficient  to  operate  as  a  repeal.  To  effect  that  by  impli- 
cation the  last  must  be  repugnant  to,  or  inconsistent  with, 
the  original  declaration. 

That  the  Founders  did  not  intend  to  repeal  or  abrogate  so 
much  of  the  12th  Article  of  the  Constitution  as  relates  to  the 
Catechism  may  be  inferred  from  the  fact  that  the  llth  and  13th 
Articles  of  the  Constitution  are  not  abrogated  or  impaired  by 
the  Additional  Statutes.  The  llth  Article  enacts  among  other 
requirements  "that  every  Professor  in  the  Seminary  shall  be  a 
man  of  sound  and  orthodox  principles  in  divinity,  according 
to  that  form  of  sound  words  or  system  of  evangelical  doc- 
trines drawn  from  the  Scriptures  and  denominated  the  West- 
minster Assembly's  Shorter  Catechism,  and  more  concisely 
delineated  in  the  Constitution  of  Phillips  Academy."  And  the 
13th  requires  that  "the  preceding  declaration"  (that  is  the 
declaration  required  by  the  12th  Article  to  be  made  by  the 
Professor-elect)  "shall  be  repeated  by  every  Professor"  "at 
the  expiration  of  every  successive  period  of  five  years,  and  no 
man  shall  be  continued  in  this  Institution  who  shall  not  con- 
tinue to  approve  himself,  to  the  satisfaction  of  the  said  Trus- 
tees, a  man  of  sound  and  orthodox  principles  in  divinity, 
agreeably  to  the  system  of  evangelical  doctrines  contained 
in  the  aforesaid  Catechism." 

That  the  13th  Article  is  not  repealed  or  annulled  is  appar- 
ent from  the  fact  that  no  reference  is  made  to  it  in  the  Ad- 
ditional Statutes  and  nothing  substituted  for  it,  and  if  it  were 
held  to  be  repealed  the  consequence  would  be  that,  while 
every  Professor  on  the  Associate  Foundation  and  every  Visitor 
on  the  original  and  Associate  Foundation  is  required  at  every 
successive  period  of  five  years  to  repeat  a  declaration  of  his  faith 
in  "the  same  theological  Creed  which  every  Professor-elect 
is  requred  to  subscribe,"  no  repetition  of  any  declaration  of 
faith  would  be  required  of  any  Professor  on  the  original  Foun- 
dation, the  Additional  Statutes  containing  no  requisition  for 
any  repetition  by  any  Professor. 


416       HISTOEY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

That  the  Creed  so  called  is  not  substituted  for  the  original 
requisition  of  the  12th  Article,  with  a  view  of  relieving  the 
Professors  from  a  declaration  of  their  belief  in  the  fundamen- 
tal doctrines  as  expressed  in  the  Catechism  is  apparent  not 
only  from  the  language  of  the  Additional  Statutes  before  re- 
ferred to,  but  from  the  inconsistency  which  would  be  appar- 
ent in  such  substitution,  assuming  that  the  Creed  requires 
less  than  the  Catechism. 

That  the  Founders  should  continue  the  requisition  of  the 
llth  Article,  that  every  Professor  should  be  a  man  of  sound, 
orthodox  principles  according  to  the  form  of  sound  words  or 
system  of  evangelical  doctrines  drawn  from  the  Scriptures  and 
denominated  the  Westminster  Assembly's  Shorter  Catechism, 
but  relieve  him  from  making  a  declaration  of  his  faith  ac- 
cording to  that  form  of  sound  words,  (which  they  had  orig- 
inally required  of  him;)  substituting  a  declaration  which  did 
not  go  so  far,  and  at  the  same  time  should  retain  the  provi- 
sion of  the  13th  Article,  that  no  man  should  be  continued  a 
Professor  in  the  Institution  who  should  not  continue  to  ap- 
prove himself  a  man  of  sound  and  orthodox  principles,  agree- 
ably to  the  system  of  evangelical  doctrines  contained  in  the 
Catechism,  would  show  an  inconsistency  in  their  Statutes  and 
in  their  action  which  cannot  be  assumed  and  certainly  is  not 
proved.  That  all  the  Professors-eZec£  are  bound  to  make  and 
subscribe  a  similar  declaration  of  faith  seems  to  be  beyond 
all  reasonable  question,  :ause  the  Additional  Statutes  adopt 
the  Creed  as  set  forth  in  the  Associate  Statutes  and  require  it 
of  all  alike.  If  the  adoption  of  the  Creed,  therefore,  were  held 
to  repeal  the  requisition  of  the  12th  Article,  it  repeals  it  as  to 
all  the  Professors,  and  if  that  is  not  repealed,  it  exists  as  a 
binding  requirement  upon  all,  because  the  Associate  Founders 
did  not  attempt  to  and  could  not  relieve  the  Professors  on  their 
Foundation  from  its  obligation,  and  the  Original  Founders  have 
not  seen  fit  so  to  do,  but  have  required  the  declaration  of  all 
the  Professors  on  their  inauguration.  If  there  be  a  doubt  upon 
the  second  question  proposed,  it  is  whether  the  Professor  on 


PROFESSOR    L.    GREENLEAF?S    OPINION.  417 

the  original  Foundation  is  required  at  the  end  of  every  suc- 
cessive period  of  five  years,  to  repeat  the  "Creed."  The  Ad- 
ditional Statutes,  which  require  that  declaration  by  every  Pro- 
fessor on  his  inauguration,  contains  no  requisition  for  its  rep- 
etition. The  Associate  Statutes  do  not  apply  to  the  Abbot 
Professor.  The  13th  Article  of  the  Constitution  cannot  require 
it  unless  the  First  Article  of  the  Additional  Statutes  has  incor- 
porated it  into  the  12th  Article  in  effect  as  if  it  had  been  there 
originally,  and  it  is  thus  a  part  of  "  the  preceding  declaration" 
mentioned  in  the  13th  Article.  A  mere  additional  enactment 
requiring  Professors  on  their  inauguration  to  make  that  declar- 
ation in  addition  to  the  one  before  required,  would  not  be  suffi- 
cient to  bring  it  within  the  13th  Article.  That  the  Creed  is  not 
substituted  for  the  declaration  required  by  the  12th  Article 
so  as  to  be  "  the  preceding  declaration"  mentioned  in  the 
13th  seems  to  be  quite  clear  from  what  has  already  been 
stated. 

If  the  foregoing  opinion  may  aid  your  investigations,  it  is 
at  your  service. 

I  am,  Reverend  and  Dear  Sir,  with  the  highest  respect, 
Very  truly  yours, 

JOEL  PARKER,  Chief  Justice. 


XVI. 

PROFESSOR   L.    GREENLEAF's    OPINION. 

Cambridge,  July  27,  1853. 
REV.  AND  DEAR  SIR: — 

I  have  read  with  deep  interest  the  four  chapters  of  manu- 
script you  sent  me,  and  those  parts  of  the  Constitution  and  Stat- 
utes of  the  Seminary  which  relate  to  the  subject.  All  which  I 
now  return  to  you.  The  argument  you  have  pursued  appears 
to  me  perfectly  sound  and  conclusive.  I  am  unable  to  point 
out  any  fault  in  it,  or  to  suggest  any  amendment. 


418       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

It  is  exceedingly  clear  that  the  rules  established  by  the 
Founders  of  the  Professorships,  whether  they  be  termed  a 
Constitution,  or  Statutes,  are  the  organic  ant,  fundamental  law 
of  the  Seminary  which  can  be  neither  impaired,  modified  nor 
strengthened  by  any  vote  or  act  of  the  Trustees.  They 
stand  as  independent  of  and  superior  to  the  Board  of  Trustees, 
as  the  State  Constitution  is  independent  of  and  superior  to 
the  Legislature.  (See  Angell  and  Ames,  "  On  Corporations," 
Chap.  X.,  §  2,  2d  ed.)  They  must  therefore  be  construed 
by  themselves,  apart  from  any  usage  or  practice  grown  up 
in  the  Seminary,  or  any  exposition  of  the  Trustees,  for 
though  a  man's  own  practice  is  in  many  cases  admitted  in 
law  as  a  just  exponent  of  his  own  language  and  meaning,  it 
is  never  received  as  an  exponent  of  the  language  and  mean- 
ing of  another.  Even  the  acts  of  the  parties  themselves  are 
not  admitted  in  law  to  control  the  plain  language  of  their 
own  solemn  instruments  under  Seal.  (Lee.  4,  Cruise's  "  Digest," 
Chap.  XX.,  §  23,  note,  Greenleaf  ed.)  On  the  ground,  and 
considering  the  solemn  nature  of  the  instruments  entitled 
"Constitution"  and  "Additional  Statutes,"  I  think  that  the 
early  practice  in  regard  to  the  declarations  to  be  made  and 
subscribed  by  the  Professors,  can  have  no  legal  effect  in  the 
exposition  of  those  instruments,  the  language  itself  being  clear. 
(The  law  on  this  subject  was  fully  discussed  in  the  case  of 
Lady  Hewley's  charities,  of  which  an  account  is  given  in 
Greenleaf  "  On  Evidence,"  §  295  note,  in  the  library  of  the 
Andover  Seminary.) 

By  the  "  Constitution"  Art.  12,  every  Professor  is  required 
to  subscribe  a  declaration  of  his  faith  in  the  gospel  as  sum- 
marily expressed  in  the  Westminster  Assembly's  Catechism, 
and  this  still  remains  unrepealed.  By  the  Additional  Statutes, 
Art.  1,  he  must,  in  addition  to  the  above,  subscribe  the  creed 
therein  set  forth.  These  requirements  the  Trustees  have  no 
power  to  dispense  with,  in  regard  to  any  Professor  in  the 
Seminary,  nor  can  they  add  any  gloss,  verbal  or  written,  to 
give  them  a  meaning  which  the  Founders  may  not  have  in- 


JUDGE    THERON    METCALF?S    OPINION.  419 

tended.  It  is  not  for  the  Trustees  or  Professors  to  expound 
them,  nor  to  say  in  what  sense  any  word  or  phrase  shall  be 
received  arid  taken.  The  sole  question  on  this  point  is,  what 
did  the  Founders  mean  by  the  words  which  they  have  used, 
and  in  this  sense,  and  this  alone  every  Professor  must  make 
and  subscribe  the  declaration,  or  else  he  carinot  as  an  honest 
man  make  it  at  all.  This  part  of  the  subject  I  think  cannot 
be  made  plainer  than  you  have  made  it. 

I  remain,  dear  sir,  with  great  respect,  your  friend  and 
servant, 

SIMON  GREENLEAF. 


XVII . 

JUDGE    THERON   METCALF's    OPINION. 

Boston,  Aug.  20,  1853. 
REV.  DR.  WOODS. 

I  have  most  considerately  examined  the  question  so  ably 
discussed  by  Dr.  Woods,  in  his  manuscript  above  referred  to 
by  Professor  Greenleaf,  and  am  wholly  unable  to  escape  from 
the  conclusion  which  Professor  Greenleaf  has  drawn. 

THERON  METCALF,  Judge  of  /Supreme  Court. 


XVIII. 

SQUIRE  FARRAR'S  STATEMENT  AND  PROTEST. 

Dr.  Burgess,  at  the  late  meeting  of  the  Board  of  Trustees, 
suggested  that  each  member  of  the  Board  should  make  the 
subject  of  the  Creed  of  the  Seminary,  and  the  manner  in 
which  it  should  be  repeated,  a  matter  of  renewed  reflection 
and  careful  examination,  and  should  put  his  thoughts  in 
writing,  to  be  presented  to  the  Board  at  a  future  meeting, 
when  the  subject  would  be  again  discussed.  I  do  not  know 


420       HISTORY   OF   AN  DOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

that  this  plan  was  sanctioned  by  the  Board,  or  whether  it  is 
really  expected  that  each  member  will  actually  comply  with 
this  suggestion.  But  in  respect  to  myself  I  have  concluded, 
considering  the  importance  of  the  subject,  and  the  uncertainty 
of  my  life,  that  it  is  expedient  for  me  to  put  a  few  thoughts  in 
writing.  It  is  not  my  intention  to  enter  into  an  extended 
argument  on  the  subject.  This  has  been  largely  and  ably 
done  by  others,  but  to  make  a  few  simple  statements  in  re- 
lation to  the  case,  hoping  that  I  may  throw  some  light  to 
assist  the  Board  in  coming  to  a  right  view  of  the  subject,  and 
to  a  right  decision. 

The  Constitution  of  the  Seminary  was  executed  by  the 
Founders  Aug.  1,  1807,  and  on  the  second  day  of  September 
following  was  presented  to  the  Board  of  Trustees  for  their 
acceptance,  upon  which  the  following  vote  was  passed  by  the 
Board — "  Voted,  that  the  Trustees  of  Phillips  Academy  do  most 
gratefully  accept  the  sacred  and  very  important  trust,  devolved 
upon  them  by  the  preceding  instrument,  and  do  hereby 
covenant  and  engage,  that  no  exertion  on  their  part  shall  be 
wanting  to  secure  the  success  of  an  Institution,  so  intimately 
connected  with  the  glory  of  God,  the  advancement  of  the 
Redeemer's  kingdom,  and  the  salvation  of  their  fellow  men." 
On  the  first  day  of  October  following,  two  Professors  were 
appointed  and  their  salaries  voted. 

During  the  transactions  which  preceded  the  establish- 
ment of  the  Seminary  in  Andover,  other  gentlemen,  supposed 
to  take  somewhat  different  views  of  certain  doctrines  of 
Theology,  entertained  the  thought  of  establishing  an  Insti- 
tution for  a  similar  purpose  in  a  neighboring  town.  It  was 
thought  to  be  important,  that  there  should  not  be  two 
Theological  Institutions,  in  the  same  vicinity,  both  of  them 
orthodox,  but  that  they  should  unite  their  funds  and  their 
influence  in  rearing  up  one  great  and  good  Seminary.  This 
consideration,  of  the  importance  of  union,  led  to  many  inter- 
views of  the  two  parties,  arid  other  friends,  and  numerous 
consultations,  to  see  if  they  could  agree  on  terms,  on  which 


SQUIRE  FARRAR'S  STATEMENT  AND  PROTEST.      421 

they  could  unite.  The  gentlemen  abroad,  who  contemplated 
a  separate  Seminary,  and  whom  we  may  denominate  the 
Associate  Founders,  say  to  the  Founders  of  the  Institution  in 
Aridover,  in  substance,  "We  like  your  Constitution.  All  its 
provisions  are  agreeable  to  us.  We  like  the  Assembly's 
Catechism,  which  you  have  made  the  basis  of  the  Faith  of 
your  Institution.  The  doctrines  of  the  gospel  as  therein  ex- 
pressed are  such  as  we  approve.  But  we  are  apprehensive 
that  there  may  be  danger  that  the  Professors  may  loosely 
generalize  that  formulary,  as  a  confession  of  faith,  and  declare 
that  they  believe  it  '  for  substance,'  when  there  may  be  im- 
portant departures  from  the  doctrines  of  the  Catechism.  In 
our  contemplations  for  a  Seminary,  such  as  we  had  in  view, 
we  have  prepared  a  Creed,  such  as  we  are  satisfied  with.  If 
you  will  unite  with  us,  and  take  this  Creed,  (their  Creed  hav- 
ing been  previously  revised  and  modified  by  the  parties)  and 
add  it  to  the  Catechism,  as  provided  in  your  Constitution,  and 
will  farther  join  with  us  in  constituting  a  common  Board  of 
Visitors,  we  will  unite  with  you,  and  place  our  funds  in  the 
hands  of  your  Trustees,  subject  to  the  provisions  of  youi 
Constitution."  To  this  the  Founders  agreed,  and  in  pursu- 
ance thereof  prepared  and  executed  their  Additional  Statutes. 
In  their  Constitution  the  Founders  made  a  reservation  in 
the  following  words,  viz.,  u  reserving  to  ourselves,  during  our 
natural  lives,  the  full  right,  jointly  to  make  any  additional 
regulations,  or  to  alter  any  rule,  herein  prescribed,  provided 
such  regulation  or  alteration  be  not  prejudicial  to  the  true 
design  of  this  Foundation."  In  conformity  with  this  reserved 
right,  in  their  Constitution,  the  Founders  of  the  Institution 
made  their  Additional  Statutes,  dated  May  3,  1808,  by  which 
they  ordain  that  every  Professor  in  the  Institution  shall,  in 
addition  to  the  Catechism,  as  before  provided,  express  his 
belief  in  the  Creed,  as  thus  drawn  out  arid  agreed  upon.  The 
first  Article  in  the  Additional  Statutes  is  in  the  following 
words,  viz. — "Article  1.  Having  provided,  in  the  twelfth 
Article  of  our  said  Constitution,  that  'every  person,  ap- 


422     HISTORY  or  ANDOVER  THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY. 

<« 

pointed  or  elected  a  Professor  in  said  Seminary,  shall  on  the 
day  of  his  inauguration  into  office,  publicly  make  and  sub- 
scribe a  declaration  of  his  faith  in  Divine  Revelation,  and  in 
the  fundamental  and  distinguishing  doctrines  of  the  Gospel 
of  Christ,  as  summarily  expressed  in  the  Westminster  As- 
sembly's Shorter  Catechism ; '  we  now  ordain  the  following 
addition  (not  alteration)  to  be  inserted  in  said  Article,  in 
connection  with  the  said  clause,  viz.,  and  as  more  particularly 
expressed  in  the  following  Creed,  to  wit,"  the  word  "  partic- 
ularly" here,  being  understood  to  be  in  opposition  to  that 
generalizing  the  Catechism,  and  taking  it  "  for  substance," 
which  appeared  to  the  Associate  Founders  a  ground  of  appre- 
hension. I  wrote  the  Additional  Statutes,  and  know  the 
thought  that  was  in  my  mind  when  I  penned  that  word. 

The  Trustees  of  Phillips  Academy  accepted  the  said 
Additional  Statutes  on  the  tenth  day  of  May,  1808.  On  the 
same  tenth  day  of  May  the  said  Trustees  accepted  the  Statutes 
of  the  Associate  Founders,  dated  March  21,  1808,  giving 
funds  and  statutes  for  the  establishment  of  Professorships  in 
the  Theological  Institution,  which  had  been  previously  estab- 
lished. Thus  the  union  was  consummated,  that  is  to  say 
the  Associate  Foundation  was  received  into  the  Seminary  al- 
ready established. 

The  object  of  the  Additional  Statutes,  above  mentioned, 
was  twofold,  viz.,  first,  to  guard  against  an  apprehended 
danger  of  loosely  generalizing  the  Catechism,  and  taking  it 
"  for  substance,"  and  second,  to  provide  for  the  establishment 
of  a  Board  of  Visitors.  The  main  question  now  to  be  settled 
is,  how  the  12th  Article  of  the  Constitution  now  stands  as  an 
unimpaired  part  of  the  Constitution,  and  its  relations  to  the 
several  Professors  in  the  Seminary.  The  Founders  reserved 
the  right  to  "  alter  any  rule "  and  to  "  add  regulations." 
Have  they,  by  these  Additional  Statutes,  "  altered "  the  12th 
Article  ?  If  not,  it  must  be  considered  as  standing  an  unim- 
paired Article  of  the  Constitution,  with  all  its  original  force 
and  extent.  Has  it  then  been  "altered"!  If  so,  by  what 


SQUIRE  FARRAR'S  STATEMENT  AND  PROTEST.      423 

words  ?  There  is  not  a  word  or  syllable,  in  the  Additional 
Statutes,  importing  any  alteration  of  that  Article,  except  by 
addition. 

That  the  12th  Article  of  the  Constitution  was  not  repealed, 
and  that  the  Trustees  have  so  understood  it,  and  so  now 
understand  it,  appears  by  the  fact,  that  they  consider  it  the 
duty  of  the  Abbot  Professor  to  take  the  Creed  as  required  by 
the  12th  Article.  Now  if  that  Article  has  not  been  repealed, 
and  is  now  in  force  in  respect  to  the  Abbot  Professor,  it  must 
be  in  force  and  applicable  to  every  other  Professor  in  the 
Seminary.  Can  it  be  conceived  that  an  Article  general  in 
its  import,  and  fundamental  in  its  character,  like  the  12th 
Article  of  the  Constitution,  can  be  made  applicable  to  one 
Professor,  and  not  to  others  in  the  Seminary? 

If  the  12th  Article  has  not  been  repealed  by  the  Founders 
in  their  Additional  Statutes,  it  is  now  a  part  of  the  Constitu- 
tion, and  must  be  regarded  accordingly. 

The  question  returns,  is  the  12th  Article  a  part  of  the 
Constitution,  or  is  it  not?  If  not,  then  the  Abbot  Professor 
is  not  bound  by  it,  any  more  than  any  other  Professor.  If  it 
is  a  part  of  the  Constitution  it  is  binding,  equally,  upon  every 
Professor  in  the  Seminary.  And  it  is  not  competent  for  the 
Trustees,  nor  has  it  been,  since  their  acceptance  of  the  Con- 
stitution in  September  1807,  ever  to  receive  any  Professor- 
ship into  the  Seminary,  but  to  be  subject  to  the  provisions 
of  that  Article.  Respectfully  submitted, 

SAML.  FARRAR. 

In  the  fear  of  God,  and  with  all  due  respect  for  this  Board, 
I  wish  to  offer  my  solemn  protest  against  a  certain  transac- 
tion of  yesterday — a  transaction  in  which  the  Rev.  Professor 
Emerson,  under  the  sanction  of  this  Board,  proceeded  to  re- 
peat, in  form,  the  Creed  prescribed  by  the  Constitution,  while 
yet  he  had  previously  declared  in  substance  that  the  West- 
minster Assembly's  Catechism  was  not  considered  by  him  as 
constituting  any  obligatory  part  of  the  said  Creed. 


-124       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

Against  this  transaction,  steadfastly  but  unavailingly 
opposed  by  me  to  the  last,  I  now  feel  myself  painfully  con- 
strained to  protest,  as  involving,  in  addition  to  its  evident  in- 
consistency, a  real  violation  both  of  the  spirit  and  the  letter 
of  the  Constitution  of  this  sacred  Seminary. 

Andover,  Sept.  4,  1839. 


XIX. 

REPORT    OF    THE    COMMITTEE    OF    THE    BOARD    OF    VISITORS,    1844. 

At  a  meeting  of  the  Board  of  Visitors  of  the  Theological 
Seminary  at  Andover,  September  5th,  A.  D.  1844,  Present: 

Rev.  HEMAN  HUMPHBY,  D.D.,  President. 
Rev.  JOHN  CODMAN,  D.D.,  Secretary. 
SETH  TEKRY. 

SECTION  I.  In  the  matter  of  the  remonstrances  of  the 
Rev.  Daniel  Dana,  D.D.,  and  of  the  Rev.  Leonard  Woods, 
D.D.,  Professor,  etc.,  against  a  vote  of  the  'Board  of  Trustees 
of  Phillips  Academy,  passed  April  18th,  A.  D.  1842,  rescinding 
in  part  a  former  vote  passed  by  said  Board  of  Trustees  relat- 
ing to  the  declaration  and  creed  of  Professors  in  the  Theo- 
logical Department. 

On  the  27th  day  of  September,  A.  D.  1826,  the  Board  of 
Trustees  voted  "  That  the  Constitution  of  the  Theological 
Seminary,  as  expressed  in  the  original  and  Additional  Statutes, 
requires  that  the  declaration  made  and  subscribed  by  every 
Professor  in  this  Seminary  shall  be  in  the  following  terms, 
viz. — 

"  I,  A.  B.,  Professor ,  do  make  solemn  declaration  of 

my  faith  in  the  fundamental  and  distinguishing  doctrines  of 
<he  Gospel  of  Christ,  as  summarily  expressed  in  the  Westmin- 
ster Assembly's  Shorter  Catechism." 

On  the  18th  day  of  April,  1842,  the  Trustees  enacted  that 


REPORT    OF    BOARD    OF    VISITORS.  425 

the  above  vote  u  be  rescinded  so  far  as  relates  to  every  Pro- 
fessor on  the  Associate  Foundation,  so  that  each  Associate 
Professor  shall  only  be  required  to  subscribe  and  repeat  the 
Creed  as  it  stands  in  Article  2d  of  the  Statutes  of  the  As- 
sociate Foundation." 

This  latter  vote  it  is  claimed  by  the  Remonstrants  is  un- 
constitutional, and  that  the  former  vote  of  1826  is  a  true  ex- 
position of  the  Laws.  So  that  the  question  raised  is,  whether 
each  Foundation  shall  use  the  declaration  and  creed  contained 
in  its  own  code;  or  whether  those  of  the  original  Foundation 
shall  govern  and  be  used  by  both. 

Before  coming  to  a  direct  consideration  of  this  ques- 
tion it  will  be  convenient  to  dispose  of  some  preliminary 
matters. 

This  case  being  presented  before  the  Visitors  in  the  form 
of  remonstrances  and  not  by  regular  appeal  a  doubt  has 
arisen  whether  this  Board  can  take  cognisance  of  it.  It 
is  the  duty  of  the  Board  of  Visitors  to  declare  void  and 
rectify  all  rules  and  regulations  of  the  Board  of  Trustees  re- 
lating to  the  Theological  Department,  which  are  inconsistent 
with  its  Laws,  whether  such  acts  of  the  Trustees  come  up  by 
appeal  or  remonstrance,  or  come  to  the  knowledge  of  the 
the  Visitors  in  any  other  way.  Indeed  so  large  and  compre- 
hensive are  the  powers  of  this  Board  that  it  would  be  the 
duty  of  Visitors  from  personal  knowledge  of  any  infraction 
of  the  laws  of  this  department  ex  offido  to  apply  a  remedy. 
On  this  point  the  laws  are  rigid  and  tenacious,  and  the  his- 
tory of  similar  institutions  explains  the  object  of  the  law- 
makers in  this  respect. 

Whenever  the  Visitors  from  negligence,  or  from  laxity  in 
their  theological  views,  shall  be  wanting  in  their  duty,  that 
guard  to  the  purity  of  doctrines  taught  in  this  School,  which 
the  Donors  intended  to  throw  around  it  by  perpetuating  in 
this  Board  their  own  powers  of  supervision,  will  be  broken 
.down ;  and  nothing  will  be  wanting  but  similar  defection  on 
the  part  of  the  Trustees  to  change  this  "  fountain  of  living 


426       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

waters  "  into  a  "  Eiver  of  Death."  If  in  the  progress  of  time 
any  officer  of  this  Institution  should  adopt  and  teach  opin- 
ions and  doctrines  inconsistent  with  those  of  the  Donors  as 
clearly  expressed  in  their  declarations  and  creeds,  it  would 
be  requiring  of  him  the  exercise  of  the  principles  of  common 
honesty  only,  that  he  should  resign.  Self-respect,  if  no 
higher  principle,  it  is  to  be  presumed,  would  induce  him  to 
do  it. 

It  is  to  be  hoped  therefore  that  this  Institution  will  always 
be  surrounded  by  friends  jealous  for  its  honor,  and  imbued 
with  that  love  for  the  truth,  and  fortitude,  which  will  lead 
them,  even  at  the  expense  of  personal  ease,  to  sound  the  alarm, 
upon  any  appearance  of  danger. 

If  the  Remonstrants  in  this  case  even,  needed  any  apology 
for  bringing  it  forward,  the  conflicting  votes  of  the  Trustees,  in 
a  matter  of  vital  interest  to  the  Institution,  would  seem  to  form 
a  sufficient  one. 

The  Remonstrants  rely  much  and  insist  strongly  upon  the 
contemporaneous  opinions  entertained  by  distinguished  bene- 
factors and  friends  of  the  Institution,  as  expressed  and  set- 
tled in  consultations  held  regarding  its  adoption  and  the 
construction  of  its  Laws. 

Long  established  rules,  settled  on  conclusive  reasons,  are 
opposed  to  the  intervention  of  such  opinions  in  this  case. 
The  case  is  written,  and  it  is  presumed  that  its  makers  had 
the  benefit  of  their  opinions  in  framing  it,  and  that  it  con- 
tains their  will — the  maxim  " Ita  Lex  Scripta"  applies.  Our 
duty  is  to  expound  it  as  written,  and  it  may  be  added  that 
seldom  has  a  code  been  drawn  up  with  more  clearness  and 
ability,  nor  better  adapted  to  the  difficult  work  of  guarding 
a  Theological  Institution  against  the  subtilties  of  Schoolmen. 

II.  We  come  now  to  the  more  immediate  consideration  of 
the  claim  of  the  Remonstrants,  which  substantially  is,  that 
the  Declaration  and  Creed  of  the  Abbot  Professor  should  be 
used  by  the  Associate  Professors. 

This  ground  the  Remonstrants  attempt  to  maintain   by 


REPORT    OF    BOARD    OF    VISITORS.  427 

statements  and  reasonings  too  voluminous  to  admit  of  a  suc- 
cinct answer  to  each,  but  we  think  they  may  be  resolved 
substantially  into  the  following  propositions — or  if  not,  that 
the  case  may  be  disposed  of  under  them;  viz.,  "That  the 
original  Foundation  is  the  Institution  and  as  such  had  a  right 
to  make  laws  binding  on  all  subsequent  Foundations;  that 
they  exercised  this  power  in  the  matter  in  question  and  estab- 
lished the  Abbot  Declaration  and  Creed  for  the  whole  Semi- 
nary and  for  all  future  time ;  that  the  Associate  Foundation 
came  in  subsequently,  not  as  an  independent  Institution,  but 
to  establish  Professorships  in  the  then  existing  Institution, 
and  was  bound  to  adopt  the  declaration  and  creed  which  had 
already  been  provided." 

III.  Very  little  weight  is  to  be  given  to  literal  expressions 
unless  they  harmonize  with  the  subject  matter.     It  is  indiffer- 
ent what  name  we  give  to  either  Foundation.     They  are  an 
anomaly,  and  what  they  are  relatively  depends  on  the  laws. 
Strictly  speaking,  the  Corporation  called  "The  Trustees  of 
Phillips  Academy"  is  the  Institution.     The   Theological  De- 
partment was   engrafted   into   it  by  compact   between   the 
Founders   and   Trustees.     The   Constitution  drawn  up   and 
signed  by  Phoebe  Phillips,  etc.,  bearing  date  August  31,  1807, 
together  with  the  Additional  Statutes,  contains  their  compact. 
Inherently  it  was  powerless,  but  being  adopted  by  the  Trus- 
tees it  acquired  life  and  became  law. 

IV.  The  same  remarks  apply  to  the  Associate  Foundation 
subsequently  established  by  Moses  Brown,  etc.     It  derived 
its  vitality  and  legal  existence  from  the  same  source,  affected 
indeed  by  the  ingrafted  laws  of  the  Original  Foundation,  but 
when  admitted,  and  the  code  of  laws  for  both  were  completed, 
they  became  equally  the  laws  of  the  Corporation.     They  con- 
stitute one  code  for  the  Theological  Department — each  Foun- 
dation to  have  the  benefit  of,  and  to  be  bound  by  those,  which 
were  designed  to  regulate  the  exercise  of  its  own  peculiar 
functions. 

The  power  to  alter  their  Constitution,  reserved  by  the 


428       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

Original  Founders,  was  finally  executed  May  10,  1808,  by 
the  Additional  Statutes  framed  for  the  purpose  of  providing 
for  the  introduction  of  the  Associate  Foundation,  which  was 
then  admitted  with  its  laws.  The  Theological  System  was 
then  completed  and  has  since  undergone  no  change. 

V.  Were  those  laws  of  the  Associate  Foundation  valid  ? 
Had  the  Trustees  a  right  to  admit  this  new  Foundation  with 
new  laws  for  its  government?     They  had  not,  if  contrary  to 
the  Constitution.     Let  us  examine  the  Constitution  on  these 
questions — 

VI.  In    Constitution,    Art.    32d:    "Notwithstanding    this 
Seminary  is  placed  by  this  Constitution  under  the  immediate 
care  and  government  of  the  Trustees  of  Phillips  Academy; 
it  is  always  to  be  understood,  and  it  is  hereby  expressly  de- 
clared, that  every  Founder  of  a  Professorship,  Scholarship,  or 
any  other  Living  whatever,  in  this  Institution,  will  have  the 
exclusive  right  of  prescribing  the  Eegulations  and  Statutes, 
to  be  observed  by  the  said  Trustees  in  conducting  the  con- 
cerns of  the  same,  said  Regulations  and  Statutes  being  al- 
ways   consistent    with    the    principles    and    object    of   this 
Institution." 

VII.  Here  is  express  provision  for  the  introduction  of  the 
new  Foundation — and  power  given  to  its  Founders  to  make 
laws  for  its  own  government — with  this  limitation,  however, 
that  such  laws  must  be  consistent  with  the  principles  and  ob- 
ject of  the  Institution  already  established.     Under  the  pro- 
visions of  this  section  of  the  Constitution  the  Associate  Foun- 
ders drew  up  their  code  of  laws,  including  a  declaration  and 
creed  for  its  own  use,  presented  the  same  to  the  Trustees, 
and  were  joined  to  the  Theological  Department  by  an  act 
of  that  Board.     The  only  remaining  question  is,  are  these 
laws,  or,  in  other  words,  are  the  Declaration  and  Creed  of  the 
Associate  Foundation  consistent  with  the  principles  and  ob- 
ject of  the  Institution  ?     If  they  are  so,  it  is  but  a  deduction 
that  they  are  valid  and  binding  and  are  of  as  high  authority 
as  the  Constitution  itself,  because  they  were  made  in  pursu- 


REPORT    OF   BOARD    OF   VISITORS.  4.29 

ance  of  it.  An  act  of  Congress,  whilst  in  force,  made  in  pur- 
suance of  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States,  is  equally 
binding  and  of  as  high  authority  as  the  Constitution  itself. 
We  will  now  examine  this  question. 

VIII.  The  Remonstrants,  in  order  to  show  that  the  two 
declarations  and  creeds  are  not  consistent  with  each  other, 
interpose  the  12th  Article  of  the  Constitution,  which  provides 
that  "  every  Professor  in  this  Seminary,  shall  on  the  day  of  his 
inauguration  into  office,  and  in  the  presence  of  the  Trustees, 
publicly  make  and  subscribe  a  solemn  Declaration  of  his  faith 
in  divine  revelation,  and  in  the  fundamental  and  distinguish- 
ing doctrines  of  the  Gospel  of  Christ,  as  summarily  expressed 
in  the  Westminster  Assembly s  Shorter  Catechism"  and  this  it  is 
claimed  is  not  consistent  with  the  declaration  and  creed — and 
that  it  is  now  in  force  as  law  for  both. 

IX.  The  declaration  of  faith  provided  in  Associate  Stat- 
utes is  the  same,  omitting  what  relates  to  the  Catechism,  and 
in    lieu    thereof    concludes   "as    expressed    in    the  folloiving 
Creed"  etc. 

X.  The  creeds  of  both  Foundations  are  the  same  and  are 
repeated  immediately  after  the  declaration  of  faith. 

XL  It  is  not  sufficient  to  show  that  the  two  declarations 
vary,  the  latter  omitting  part  of  the  former,  unless  such  omis- 
sion renders  them  inconsistent  with  each  other.  How  is  that 
fact?  The  Additional  Statutes  quoting  the  Abbot  declaration 
concluding  with  the  words,  "  Assembly's  Shorter  Catechism," 
say,  "  we  now  ordain  the  following  addition  to  be  inserted  in 
said  Article,  in  connection  with  the  said  clause,  viz.,  '  and  as 
more  particularly  expressed  in  the  following  Creed,'"  viz.,  and 
adopt  literally  the  Creed  of  the  Associate  Foundation.  So 
that  Article  12th  with  this  alteration  makes  the  Professor 
say  "  as  summarily  expressed  in  the  Westminster  Assembly's 
Shorter  Catechism,  and  as  more  particularly  expressed  in  the 
following  Creed,  i.  e.,  the  Associate  Creed." 

XII.  We  are  not  now  upon  the  question  whether  it  was  wise 
to  omit  in  that  declaration  of  faith  what  is  said  of  the  Cate- 


430       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

chism  (which  we  hold  to  be  an  epitome  of  the  Bible),  but  are 
expounding  what  the  Founders  have  enacted. 

XIII.  The  Original  Founders  say  that  what  is  expressed 
in  the  Catechism,  relating  to  faith  in  the  Scriptures,  is  con- 
tained in  the  Creed  of  the  Associate  Foundation  which  they 
adopt. 

XIV.  The   two    creeds    and    declarations    are    verbatim, 
excepting  that  the  Associate  Declaration  omits  what  is  said 
of  the  Catechism;  but  this  omission  the  Original  Founders 
say  is  supplied  in  the  Creed  connected  with  it,  and  more 
than  supplied,  because  the  Creed  is  the  most  explicit.     We 
cannot  therefore  discover  any  inconsistency  between  the  two 
taken  as  a  whole. 

XV.  It  is  needless,  however,  to  resort  to  argument  on 
this  point,  for  the  Original  Founders  themselves  expressly 
settled  the  legality  of  the  Associate  Declaration  and  Creed, 
and   the  right  of  that   Foundation   to  administer  them  to 
their     Professors,     by     the     Additional     Statutes     of    May 
10,  1808. 

XVI.  The    Associate     Founders     having     framed    their 
laws  and  laid  them  before  the  Original  Founders,  the  latter 
with    a   full    knowledge   of   all   their    provisions    expressly 
approved  of  them,  and  with  a  view  to  their  adoption  by  the 
Trustees   drew  up   the    Additional   Statutes.     What  is    im- 
mediately   in    point    in    those    Statutes    reads    thus:    After 
speaking  of  their  right  to  alter  their  rules — "We  do  now, 
agreeably  to  the  said  reserved  right,  make  and  ordain  the 
following  articles  to  be  added  to  and  taken  as  a  part  of  our 
said  Constitution ;  provided  the  said  Trustees  shall  accept  the 
Statutes  and  Foundation  of  the  Associate  Founders,  which  are 
now  executed  and   to   be  laid  before  the  said  Trustees  at 
their  approaching  meeting  for  acceptance,  and  to  continue 
of  force   as   a  part   of  our   said   Constitution";    they   then 
quote    the    12th    Article    of  their    Constitution,    make    the 
alterations   above   mentioned   and  adopt   the   Creed  of  the 
Associate  Foundation,  which  they  manifestly  did  in  order  to 


REPORT    OF   BOARD    OF   VISITORS.  431 

make  their  own  declaration  and  creed  agreeable  to  them- 
selves and  conformable  to  those  of  the  Associate  Foundation 
now  about  to  be  connected  with  them.  To  suppose  that 
the  Original  Founders  made  those  modifications  in  order 
to  prepare  them  for  the  use  of  the  Associate  Professors,  would 
seem  to  be  absurd,  when  the  latter  were  already  provided 
for  by  the  Associate  Laws  and  that  known  to  the  Original 
Founders.  These  laws  of  the  Associate  Foundation  were 
laid  before  the  Board  of  Trustees,  together  with  the  Ad- 
ditional Statutes,  were  approved,  and  became  law. 

XVII.  Finally,  the  claim  that  the  provisions  of  the  12th 
Article  are  binding  on  the  Associate  Foundation  and  obliged 
its  Professors  to  use  the  Abbot  Declaration  and  Creed,  if  held 

tenable  would,  by  consequence  not  only the  2d  Article 

of  the  Associate  Laws  but  also  the  Additional  Statutes  them- 
selves. A  conclusive  answer  to  the  claim  that  the  12th 
Article  is  thus  binding  because  it  is  the  elder  is  this:  The 
Additional  Statutes  are  subsequent.  They  enact  the  new 
Declaration  and  Creed  for  the  Associate  Foundation,  and  de- 
clare that  when  approved  by  the  Trustees  they  shall  be- 
come part  of  the  Constitution.  They  were  approved  by  the 
Trustees,  and  consequently  became  part  of  the  Constitution. 
If  consistent  with  the  12th  Article  they  are  law,  if  incon- 
sistent therewith  they  are  not  law,  and  so  far  as  relates  to 
the  Associate  Professors  the  12th  Article  is  repealed.  For 
it  is  established  law  that  where  two  statutes  are  incon- 
sistent with  each  other,  either  wholly  or  in  part,  the  latter 
statute  so  rar  repeals  the  former  as  is  necessary  in  order 
to  give  effect  to  the  latter.  Had  the  Additional  Statutes 
contained  a  preamble  setting  forth  that  "  whereas  Article 
12th  was  originally  intended  for  the  government  not  only  of 
our  Foundation,  but  of  all  future  Scholarships  that  may  be 
established  in  this  Institution,  we  do  now,  nevertheless,  in 
the  exercise  of  our  reserved  rights  to  alter  our  laws,  ordain 
and  establish  that  the  Declaration  and  Creed  of  the  Associate 
Founders  only  shall  be  used  by  that  Foundation,  and  that  so 


432      HISTORY  OF  ANDOVER   THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY. 

much  of  Article  12th  as  is  inconsistent  therewith  be  and 
the  same  is  hereby  repealed."  We  say  that  had  the  above 
clause  been  contained  in  the  Additional  Statutes  the  validity 
of  the  new  declaration  and  creed  would  not  have  been 
varied. 

XVIII.  We  have  given  our  reasons  more  at  length  in 
this  case  because  of  the  peculiar  structure  of  the  Theological 
Department.  And  we  felt  that  great  weight  was  due  to  the 
opinions  of  the  able  and  devoted  friends  of  the  Institution 
who  brought  it  forward;  and  we  are  happy  to  say,  injustice 
to  the  memory  of  the  Founders,  that  the  more  closely  their 
laws  are  examined  the  more  harmonious  they  appear,  and 
the  more  honor  is  reflected  upon  the  authors  of  them  for 
their  profound  wisdom,  clear  theological  views,  and  cordial 
love  for  sound  evangelical  truth. 


XX. 


DR.    DANIEL    DANA  S    PROTESTS. 

To  the  Reverend  and  Honorable  Board  of  Visitors  of  the  Theo- 
logical Seminary. 

GENTLEMEN  : — The  subscriber  has  found  himself  under  the 
painful  necessity  of  entering  his  Protest,  against  an  Act  of  the 
Board  of  Trustees,  a  copy  of  which  he  believes  to  be  already 
in  your  hands.  A  copy  of  the  Protest  referred  to,  he  trans- 
mits with  this  application. 

By  a  careful  consultation  of  the  Constitution  and  Associate 
Statutes,  the  subscriber  is  led  to  believe,  that  there  is  vested 
in  your  Board  a  power  to  arrest  and  control  such  acts  of  the 
Board  of  Trustees,  as  appear  to  be  in  conflict  with  the  Con- 
stitution and  Associate  Statutes.  Such  he  sincerely  believes 
to  be  the  character  of  the  proceeding  in  view.  He  conceives 
it,  likewise,  to  be  fraught  with  evil  to  the  vital  interests  of  the 


DR.    DANIEL    DANA'S   PROTESTS.  433 

Seminary.  He  therefore  respectfully  requests  your  interposi- 
tion in  the  case,  and  such  form  of  action  as  shall  seem  to  be 
demanded  by  truth  and  justice,  and  the  best  interests  of  the 
Institution. 

For  the  reasons  by  which  the  present  appeal  is  sustained, 
the  subscriber  asks  leave  to  refer  your  Board  to  a  letter  con- 
taining a  discussion  of  the  subject,  and  addressed  by  himself 
to  the  Hon.  Saml.  Hubbard,  the  President  of  the  Board  of  Trus- 
tees and  Chairman  of  one  of  its  Committees. 

In  conclusion  he  begs  leave  to  invite,  very  emphatically, 
the  attention  of  the  Board  of  Visitors  to  the  fact,  that  the 
construction  of  the  Constitution  and  Associate  Statutes  for 
which  he  contends  has  been  most  decidedly  and  explicitly 
advocated  and  sanctioned  by  two  gentlemen  (Dr.  Woods  and 
Saml.  Farrar,  Esq.)  who  possessed  the  entire  confidence  both 
of  the  Original  and  Associate  Founders  of  the  Institution, 
who  were  much  consulted  by  them ;  who  bore  a  part  in  fram- 
ing their  respective  Instruments,  and  who  must  therefore  be 
considered  as  well  understanding  the  proper  meaning  of  those 
Instruments.  This  simple  fact,  in  the  absence  of  other  con- 
siderations, is  humbly  conceived  to  be  decisive  on  the  mo- 
mentous question  now  to  be  decided  by  your  Board. 

The  subscriber  ought  not  to  close  without  stating,  that 
although  he  is  solitary  in  this  form  of  application,  he  has  in 
the  general  views  he  has  expressed  the  entire  concurrence  of 
several  of  his  brethren  of  the  Board  of  Trustees. 

He  subscribes  with  great  respect, 

DANIEL  DANA. 

Andover,  Sept.  3,  1844. 

To  the  Trustees  of  Phillips  Academy. 

MY  RESPECTED  BRETHREN: — In  the  year  1853,  I  submitted  to 
the  religious  public  the  Remonstrance  which  I  addressed  to  your 
Board  in  Sept.  1849.  In  some  remarks  in  that  publication  I 
alluded  to  the  Report  of  your  Committee  on  the  subject  in 
Sept.  18-50,  as,  in  my  view,  entirely  unsatisfactory.  These  terms 


434       HISTORY   OF    ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

were  employed  under  a  deep  sense  of  responsibility.  Nor  will 
I  now  dissemble  that  after  long  reflection,  the  Report  appears 
to  me  essentially  erroneous;  and  I  am  convinced  that  impor- 
tant reasons  require  that  its  errors  should  be  pointed  out. 
From  this  unwelcome  task  I  have  often  shrunk;  and  I  now  ap- 
proach it  with  undissernbled  pain.  In  its  execution,  I  hope 
not  to  forget  the  deference  which  I  owe  to  your  respectable 
Body. 

The  Report  refers  to  Mr.  Farrar,  not  less  than  to  myself.  It 
likewise  utters  large  and  free  remarks  on  Dr.  Woods.  Indeed, 
the  burden  of  animadversion  falls  more  heavily  on  these  gen- 
tlemen, than  on  myself.  And  this  animadversion  is. brought 
to  bear  directly  on  the  vital  topics  in  debate.  Firmly  per- 
suaded as  I  am,  that  the  course  of  these  gentlemen  has  been 
correct,  and  admits  a  perfect  vindication;  convinced,  too, 
that  such  vindication  will  do  much  to  extricate  the  subject 
from  its  perplexities,  and  pour  upon  it  the  light  of  truth,  I 
must  of  course  consider  this  as  a  matter  of  prime  importance. 
Under  these  impressions,  I  directed  a  letter  to  Dr.  Woods, 
requesting  his  views  and  remarks  on  the  portions  of  the 
Report  relating  particularly  to  himself.  This  step  seemed  to 
me  obviously  proper;  for  if  his  proceedings  were  to  be  ex- 
plained, the  power  and  the  right  of  such  explanation  plainly 
belonged  to  himself.  I  likewise  requested  his  remarks  on 
other  parts  of  the  Report.  In  his  reply,  he  has  given  a  plain 
and  full  account  of  the  origin  and  authorship  of  the  Associate 
Creed,  of  its  u  addition  "  to  the  Westminster  Catechism, — in- 
stead of  being  intended  to  take  its  place, — and  of  the  unim- 
paired authority  of  the  12th  Article  of  the  Constitution, 
prescribing  that  Catechism  for  all  the  Professors  without 
distinction  or  exception.  These  things  have  long  been  fa- 
miliar to  my  mind;  but  it  is  very  satisfactory  to  have  them 
confirmed  by  such  authority. 

The  letter  to  which  I  have  referred  is  subjoined. 


DR.   DANIEL    DANA'S    PROTESTS.  435 

Andover,  April  18,  1854. 
REV.   DANIEL  DANA,   D.D., 

Dear  Brother, — I  feel  myself  bound  by  Christian  courtesy 
and  kindness  to  answer  your  enquiries.  But  I  am  influenced 
by  a  still  higher  motive,  namely,  that  the  Report  of  the  Com- 
mittee of  the  Trustees,  dated  Sept.  1,  1850,  to  which  your 
enquiries  relate,  contains,  in  my  opinion,  obvious  and  impor- 
tant mistakes.  I  say  this  without  imputing  wrong  motives 
to  him  who  wrote  the  Report  on  your  Remonstrance,  or  call- 
ing in  question  the  goodness  of  his  intentions. 

Your  request  is,  that  I  should  give  you  my  views  of  the 
9th  and  10th  sections  of  the  Report,  which  relate  directly  to 
me  by  name,  and  also  of  sections  1st,  2d,  and  3d,  so  far  as  I  was 
personally  conversant  or  acquainted  with  the  matters  therein 
stated. 

In  regard  to  the  mistakes  involved  in  the  Report  of  the 
Committee,  I  shall  speak  with  plainness  and  decision,  because 
by  the  ordering  of  Divine  Providence,  I  had  a  personal  knowl- 
edge of  all  the  facts  in  the  case.  I  was  intimately  acquainted 
and  intimately  conversant  with  the  Associate  Donors  and  their 
principal  agent,  Dr.  Spring ;  and  co-operated  with  them,  through 
all  their  movements.  By  their  request,  I  had  an  agency  in 
forming  the  plan  of  the  Divinity  School,  which  they  projected 
at  West  Newbury,  and  particularly  in  composing  the  Creed. 

I  was  equally  conversant  with  Dr.  Pearson,  Dr.  Morse  and 
Mr.  Farrar,  who  were  the  principal  agents  of  Mr.  Abbot,  and 
with  Mr.  Abbot  himself.  I  was  personally  concerned  in  the 
measures  which  they  adopted  in  connection  with  the  Asso- 
ciate Donors,  for  the  purpose  of  accomplishing  the  union.  I 
thus  had  the  best  opportunity  of  knowing  the  views  and 
purposes  of  the  Founders  and  Donors. 

As  to  the  proper  legal  construction  of  the  Constitution  and 
Statutes  of  the  Founders  and  Donors,  in  respect  to  the  Creed, 
— although  that  construction  appears  very  plain, — I  have 
chosen  not  to  trust  my  own  judgment  alone,  but  have  taken 
the  precaution  to  request  several  able  lawyers  and  jurists  to 


436       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

examine  carefully  the  Constitution  and  Statutes  and  to  give 
me  their  legal  opinions  on  the  points  which  have  been  de- 
bated. The  character  of  those  jurists,  namely,  Professor 
Greenleaf,  Gov.  Clifford,  Judge  Parker,  Professor  of  Law  at 
Cambridge,  and  Judge  Farrar,  entitles  their  opinions  to  great 
respect. 

In  making  answer  to  your  enquiries,  it  is  necessary  to 
consider  how  and  by  whom  the  Associate  Creed  was  formed. 
On  the  16th  of  March,  1807,  Messrs.  Brown  and  Bartlett,  who 
then  engaged  to  found  a  Divinity  School  in  West  Newbury, 
requested  Dr.  Spring  and  myself  to  prepare  a  Constitution, 
particularly  a  Creed,  for  their  school.  We  began  it  immedi- 
ately. Dr.  Spring  had  the  chief  agency;  but  I  co-operated 
with  him,  and  the  Creed  was  the  result  of  our  joint  labors. 
After  a  time  the  Donors  became  familiarly  acquainted  with 
Dr.  Pearson,  and  joined  with  us  in  requesting  him  to  give  us 
his  occasional  assistance.  The  Creed  was  written  by  us 
under  the  direction  of  the  Donors,  and  in  about  ten  weeks 
from  March  16th,  1807,  was  completed,  with  their  express 
approbation.  That  Creed  was  finally  included  in  the  Statutes 
of  the  Donors,  which  were  signed  and  sealed  by  them,  March 
31st,  1808,  more  than  a  month  before  the  Founders  of  the 
Seminary  added  it  to  the  Catechism  in  their  Additional  Stat- 
utes, which  was  their  last  act  as  Founders. 

Now  when  the  Report  on  your  Remonstrance  asserts  that 
"  the  Founders  of  the  Seminary"  "  prepared"  the  Associate 
Creed,  and  "embodied  in  it  the  system  of  doctrines  contained 
in  the  Catechism,"  it  asserts  it  without  any  evidence,  and  in 
opposition  to  well-known  facts.  The  Founders  of  the  Sem- 
inary were  Samuel  Abbot,  Phoebe  Phillips  and  John  Phillips. 
The  standard  of  doctrine  which  they  appointed  for  "every 
Professor  in  the  Seminary,"  was  not  the  Associate  Creed,  but 
the  Shorter  Catechism  (See  Constitution,  Art.  12th).  "  Pre- 
paring" the  Associate  Creed,  and  embodying  in  it  the  doc- 
trines of  the  Catechism,  was  not  their  work,  but,  so  far  as  it 
was  done,  was  the  work  of  other  men.  All  the  concern  which 


DR.  DANIEL    DANA?S   PROTESTS.  437 

they  had  in  it  was,  to  examine  and  approve  it,  as  the  Creed 
prepared  and  adopted  by  the  Associate  Donors,  and  then,  as 
a  condition  of  the  union,  to  add  it  to  the  Catechism,  thus 
making  a  united  doctrinal  standard  for  "  every  Professor"  in 
the  united  Seminary.  In  the  1st  Article  of  the  Additional 
Statutes,  and  in  the  Preamble,  you  find  what  they  said  and 
did  in  determining  the  final  doctrinal  standard  for  the  Pro- 
fessors. Here  is  all  they  said,  and  all  they  did,  on  this  subject. 
The  Report  on  your  Remonstrance  represents,  that  the 
Founders  of  the  Seminary  embodied  in  the  Creed  the  doctrines 
of  the  Catechism  u  as  they  intended  they  should  be  believed,  pro- 
fessed and  subscribed  by  their  Professors."  Now  how  are  we 
to  learn  the  intentions  of  the  Founders  in  this  matter  ?  I  an- 
swer, from  what  they  said  and  did.  And  what  did  they  say 
and  do  ?  Why,  just  what  is  set  forth  in  the  Preamble  and  the 
1st  Article  of  the  Additional  Statutes.  Here  their  intentions 
are  made  known  with  great  clearness.  In  the  Preamble  they 
tell  us  why,  and  on  what  conditions,  they  made  an  altera- 
tion in  the  12th  Article  of  their  Constitution.  In  the  1st 
Additional  Statute,  they  tell  us  what  the  alteration  was;  to 
wit,  not  "embodying"  the  doctrines  of  the  Catechism  in  the 
Creed,  and  not  giving  up  the  Catechism  as  appointed  in  their 
Constitution,  and  substituting  the  Creed  in  its  place.  The  altera- 
tion in  the  12th  Article  of  the  Constitution  which  they  meant  to 
make,  and  did  make,  was  not  either  of  those  above  mentioned. 
What  then  was  it ?  It  was  neither  more  nor  less  than  this ;  that 
whereas  they  had  before  ordained,  that  every  Professor  should 
subscribe  to  the  Catechism,  they  now  ordain  that  he  shall  sub- 
scribe to  the  Creed  "  in  addition"  to  the  Catechism.  They 
intended  to  connect  the  Creed  with  the  Catechism ;  and  in  the 
1st  Additional  Statute  they  did  conned  them  together  as  plainly 
as  language  could  do  it.  Suppose  now  we  extend  our  en- 
quiries to  the  three  Donors,  who  were  Founders,  not  of  the 
Seminary,  but  of  Professorships  in  the  Seminary  previously 
established.  What  was  their  intention  as  to  the  Creed  ?  The 
documents  show  that  it  was  their  original  intention  to  make 


438       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

the  Associate  Creed,  and  that  alone,  the  doctrinal  standard 
of  their  Divinity  School  at  West  Newbury.  But  as  a  condi- 
tion of  union  with  the  Andover  Seminary,  they  proposed  that 
their  Creed  should  be  adopted  by  the  Founders  in  addition 
to  the  Catechism.  This  was  agreed  to  by  the  Founders,  and 
was  executed  in  their  Additional  Statutes,  Sect.  1st.  When  the 
Donors  saw  that  this  was  actually  done,  May  3d,  1808,  and 
the  provision  accepted  and  confirmed  by  the  Trustees,  then, 
and  not  till  then,  did  they  in  fact  come  into  the  union,  and 
put  their  funds  into  the  hands  of  the  Trustees.  Thus  it  ap- 
pears that  it  was  as  much  their  intention,  as  it  was  the  inten- 
tion of  the  Founders,  that  the  Catechism  and  Creed,  connected 
together,  should  be  the  standard  of  all  the  Professors  in  the 
Seminary.  In  fact  there  would  have  been  no  proper  union, 
unless  the  intention  of  the  two  parties  had  been  the  same  in 
regard  to  this  subject.  Who  does  not  see  at  once,  that  the 
standard  of  one  Professor  could  not  be  different  from  that  of 
the  others  without  a  manifest  and  lamentable  flaw  in  the  plan 
of  the  union  ?  But  no  such  flaw  can  be  detected  in  the  do- 
ings of  the  Founders  and  Donors. 

The  Report  states,  that  "in  the  judgment  of  the  Committee" 
the  Founders  of  the  Seminary  did  so  and  so.  But  have  the 
Committee  in  any  way  informed  us,  what  reason  they  had  for 
such  a  judgment  ?  We  should  certainly  expect  they  would 
do  this,  considering  the  importance  of  the  subject.  But  they 
merely  say  it  was  so  "in  their  judgment''1  But  on  what  foun- 
dation did  their  judgment  rest  ?  It  could  not  rest  on  any- 
thing the  Founders  did  on  the  subject  before  May  3d,  1808;  for 
all  they  did  before  that  time  was  contained  in  the  llth,  12th, 
and  13th  Articles  of  their  Constitution,  making  the  Catechism 
the  standard  of  doctrine  in  the  Seminary.  Their  judgment 
could  not  rest  on  anything  the  Founders  did  on  the  subject 
after  the  3d  of  May,  1808.  For  what  they  did  on  that  day  was 
their  last  act.  As  Founders,  they  did  nothing  on  the  subject 
after  that,  and  it  is  clear  that  the  judgment  of  the  Committee 
could  not  rest  on  that  last  act  of  the  Founders,  for  that  act,  as 


DR.    DANIEL    DANA?S    PROTESTS.  439 

we  have  seen,  was  merely  ordaining,  that  "  every  Professor 
in  the  Seminary  should  subscribe  to  the  Creed  "in  addition" 
to  the  Catechism.  There  are  two  men  living,  and  only  two, 
who  were  personally  conversant  with  the  Founders  and  Don- 
ors when  they  fixed  the  doctrinal  standard  of  the  Seminary; 
one  of  whom  prepared  and  wrote  the  Additional  Statutes  of 
the  Founders  under  their  direction ;  and  the  other  of  whom  by 
request  of  the  Donors  assisted  in  forming  the  Creed  of  the 
Associate  Foundation.  And  to  both  of  these  men  the  judg- 
ment of  the  Committee  stated  above  must  appear  very  un- 
accountable. The  facts  of  the  case  lead  to  a  very  different 
judgment.  The  Founders  of  the  Seminary  did  not  prepare 
the  Creed.  They  did  not  embody  in  the  Creed  the  doctrines  of 
the  Catechis  m.  So  far  as  this  was  done,  it  was  done  by  the  Asso- 
ciate Donors  and  their  agents.  The  Founders  of  the  Seminary 
in  their  Additional  Statutes  quoted  the  Creed,  verbatim,  from 
the  Statutes  of  the  Associate  Foundation ;  and,  to  bring  about 
the  union,  added  it  to  the  Catechism.  What  they  had  done 
the  previous  year  in  the  12th  Article  of  the  Constitution  re- 
mained. They  repealed  nothing.  They  revoked  nothing. 
On  the  contrary,  they  re-asserted  and  confirmed  the  12th  A  - 
tide,  just  as  it  was,  and  made  an  addition  to  it.  They  con- 
nected the  Associate  Creed  with  the  Catechism.  This  is  what 
they  actually  did.  And  their  object  in  doing  it  is  evident 
from  their  Preamble. 

The  writer  of  the  Report  obviously  meant  to  represent  it 
as  the  intention  of  the  Founders,  that  a??  the  Professors  should 
subscribe  to  the  Associate  Creed,  and  to  that  only.  In  this 
the  writer  of  the  Report  differs,  first,  from  the  Constitution 
and  Additional  Statutes,  as  any  one  may  see;  and  secondly, 
from  the  acts  of  the  Trustees  in  1813  and  in  1826 ;  and  also  in 
1842  so  far  as  the  Abbot  Professor  is  concerned ;  and  he  dif- 
fers from  the  uniform  practice  of  that  Professor  from  1813  to 
the  present  time ;  for  at  every  successive  period  of  five  years, 
he  has  declared  his  belief  of  the  doctrines  expressed  both  in 
the  Catechism  and  in  the  Creed,  and  has  promised  to  teach 


440       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

accordingly.     (See  votes  of  the  Trustees  at  the  three  periods 
above  mentioned.) 

In  the  Eeport  of  the  Committee,  section  9th,  I  am  charged 
with  improperly  altering  my  manuscript  History  of  the  Sem- 
inary, which  the  Trustees  had  requested  me  to  write.  The 
facts  were  these.  In  1839,  I  had  made  some  progress  in  writ- 
ing the  History,  and  submitted  what  I  had  done  to  a  Com- 
mitte  of  the  Trustees  for  the  purpose  of  obtaining  their  free 
suggestions  in  aid  of  the  work.  In  reviewing  and  revising 
the  manuscript,  long  before  submitting  it  to  the  Committee,  I 
had  done  what  every  writer  ought  to  do;  that  is,  I  had  made 
corrections  and  alterations  wherever  I  found  them  to  be 
necessary.  Had  I  not  done  this,  I  should  have  been  charge- 
able with  culpable  neglect.  But  what  was  the  alteration 
noticed  in  the  Keport?  It  was  this.  When  I  made  my  first 
draft,  I  used  the  phrase,  "the  Creed  of  the  Seminary"  to 
denote  the  complete  doctrinal  standard  which  the  Founders 
of  the  Seminary  appointed  in  the  12th  Article  of  their  Con- 
stitution, and  the  1st  Additional  Statute — I  used  the  phrase 
to  cover  the  whole  formula  of  doctrine  in  which  I  had  uni- 
formly declared  my  belief  every  five  years  from  the  beginning, 
and  in  which  all  the  Professors  had  declared  their  belief,  from 
Sept.  1826  to  that  time,  that  is,  1839.  The  word  "Creed" 
was  in  conversation,  and  sometimes  in  the  printed  documents, 
used  in  this  comprehensive  sense.  But  I  found  that  the  word 
was  sometimes  used  in  a  limited  sense,  denoting  merely  that 
part  of  our  standard,  which  was  contained  in  the  Associate 
Statutes,  and  which  had  the  exact  form  of  a  Creed.  And  as 
the  doctrinal  standard  for  all  the  Professors,  included  both  the 
Catechism  and  Creed,  there  was  no  way  to  prevent  mistake, 
and  utter  the  whole  truth,  but  to  mention  them  both  together, 
as  I  did  by  interlineation,— "Catechism  and  Creed."  This 
was  the  only  way  in  which  I  could  make  my  manuscript  con- 
form to  the  existing  practice  of  all  the  Professors,  and  to  the 
vote  of  the  Trustees  in  1826,  which  was  then  in  force.  It 
must  be  kept  in  mind  that  the  manuscript  referred  to  was 


DR.   DANIEL    DANA?S    PROTESTS.  441 

written  some  years  before  the  vote  of  1826  was  repealed,  while 
the  Report  of  the  Committee  was  written  eight  years  after 
that  repeal.  If  the  writer  of  the  Report  had  remembered  this 
circumstance,  he  would  have  seen  that  he  and  I  looked  at  the 
subject  at  different  times,  and  in  very  different  lights.  I 
looked  at  our  doctrinal  standard,  as  it  had  been  determined 
by  an  act  of  the  Trustees  then  in  full  force,  requiring  all  the 
Professors  to  assent  to  the  Catechism  and  Creed,  according 
to  the  1st  Article  of  the  Additional  Statutes.  Had  I  not 
named  both  the  Catechism  and  Creed,  the  writer  of  the 
Report  and  the  other  members  of  the  Committee,  to  whom  I 
submitted  my  manuscript  in  1839,  would  doubtless  have  said, 
that  my  manuscript  was  not  conformed  to  the  Constitution 
and  Additional  Statutes,  nor  to  the  vote  of  the  Trustees  in 
1826  then  in  force,  nor  to  the  then  practice  of  all  the  Profess- 
ors. My  manuscript  was  written  between  1835  and  1839, 
while  the  vote  of  1826  was  binding  on  all  the  Professors. 
But  the  Report  was  written  in  1850,  eight  years  after  the 
partial  repeal  of  the  vote.  The  writer  of  the  Report  seems 
to  have  forgotten,  that  wheo.  I  wrote  my  manuscript,  I  was 
bound  in  duty  to  make  it  agree  with  that  vote,  by  including 
the  Catechism  with  the  Creed.  It  appears  then  that  when  I 
revised  my  manuscript,  I  had  good  reason  for  the  interlinea- 
tion mentioned,  connecting  the  Catechism  with  the  Creed. 
Had  I  not  done  this,  I  should  have  placed  myself  in  opposi- 
tion to  the  existing  order  of  the  Board,  and  the  existing 
practice  of  the  Professors.  This  circumstance  was  too  impor- 
tant to  be  overlooked. 

In  the  10th  section  of  the  Report,  the  writer  says,  I  com- 
plained to  him  that  in  the  Laws  lately  republished,  there  was 
a  mistake  in  not  putting  in  the  Catechism  as  a  part  of  the 
Creed.  I  did  complain  of  this,  and  for  obvious  reasons.  For 
how  should  the  Book  of  Laws  published  by  the  Trustees, 
present  the  Confession  of  Faith  appointed  for  the  Professors  ? 
If  it  undertook  to  present  it  at  all,  it  should  certainly  present 
it  according  to  the  12th  Article  of  the  Constitution  of  the  Sem 


442       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

inary.  But  in  this  it  failed.  It  should  present  it  according 
to  the  1st  Additional  Statute,  which  was  the  last  act  of  the 
Founders.  But  in  this  it  failed.  It  should  present  it  accord- 
ing to  the  order  of  the  Trustees,  passed  in  1826,  which  was 
still  in  force.  But  in  this  too  it  failed.  And  finally,  it  should 
present  it  according  to  the  uniform  practice  of  the  Professors 
from  1826  to  some  years  after  the  last  edition  of  the  Laws. 
But  in  this  also  it  failed.  The  Trustees  published  two  edi- 
tions of  the  Laws,  while  their  order  of  1826  was  in  force;  but 
neither  of  them  was  conformed,  either  to  their  own  vote  of 
1826,  or  to  the  Original  Constitution  of  the  Founders,  or  to 
their  last  act  in  the  1st  Additional  Statute,  or  to  the  then  exist- 
ing practice  of  all  the  Professors.  In  both  those  editions  of  the 
Laws  of  the  Seminary,  all  these  points  were  ignored.  The 
Book  of  Laws  undertook  to  inform  the  public  what  profession 
of  belief,  and  what  promises  are  required  of  the  Professors. 
But  it  is  a  fact  to  this  day,  that  no  man  could  learn  from 
either  of  the  four  editions  of  the  Laws,  what  doctrinal  standard 
was  appointed  by  the  Founders  for  all  the  Professors  in  the 
Seminary,  and  what  was  actually  used  as  their  standard  for 
sixteen  years  from  1826.  I  now  add,  that  no  man  could  learn 
from  the  Laws  in  either  of  the  four  editions  published,  what 
Profession  of  Faith  and  what  promises  are  required  of  the 
Professor  of  Christian  Theology  by  the  Constitution  and  Ad- 
ditional Statutes  of  the  Founders,  arid  also  by  the  permanent 
order  of  the  Trustees,  and  what  has  really  been  his  practice 
at  every  successive  period  of  five  years  from  the  opening  of 
the  Seminary  to  the  present  time. 

The  defect  of  the  Laws  above  pointed  out,  was  what  I 
complained  of  to  the  writer  of  the  Keport  soon  after  he  had 
superintended  the  last  edition  of  the  Laws  in  1847.  He  did 
indeed  say  in  order  to  satisfy  me,  that  he  followed  all  the 
previous  editions  of  the  Laws.  But  how  could  this  satisfy 
me,  when  all  those  editions  had  the  same  obvious  defect, 
Those  editions  had  all  been  prepared  by  Committees  of  the 
Trustees,  and  the  printing  of  the  editions  in  1817  and  1827 


DR.    DANIEL    DANA^S    PROTESTS.  443 

had  been  superintended,  not  by  me,  as  the  writer  of  the  Re- 
port  affirms,  but  by  Dr.  Porter,  the  senior  Professor. 

I  must  plead  the  importance  of  the  subject,  as  my  apology 
for  taking  so  much  pains  to  unravel  the  mistakes  which  are 
contained  in  the  Report. 

I  should  have  regarded  it  as  a  favor,  not  to  say  as  an  act 
of  justice,  if  the  Trustees  had  apprised  me  in  1850  that  a 
Report  was  then  made  to  them,  which  so  directly  impeached 
my  conduct;  and  I  should  certainly  have  endeavored  to  make 
a  more  seasonable  reply. 

I  cannot  but  regret  that  the  writer  of  the  Report  did  not 
take  pains  to  inquire  more  fully  into  the  facts  and  circum- 
stances of  the  case,  before  he  undertook  the  task  of  writing. 

The  answers  above,  which  I  wish  could  be  made  shorter, 
I  submit  to  your  candid  consideration. 

Your  affectionate  brother, 

LEONARD  WOODS. 

Such  are  the  views  of  Dr.  Woods.  You  will  readily  admit 
that  there  is  no  living  individual  possessing  equal  advantages 
for  giving  just  and  accurate  information  on  all  the  topics  em- 
braced in  his  letter.  He  was,  as  you  know,  intimately  ac- 
quainted with  both  classes  of  the  Founders  of  the  Seminary 
arid  possessed  their  entire  confidence.  He  perfectly  knew  their 
designs  and  wishes.  He  took  an  important  part  in  framing 
the  Creed  of  the  Associate  Donors.  From  the  commencement 
of  the  Seminary  he  was  its  Theological  Professor,  and  sus- 
tained the  office  for  nearly  forty  years.  As  his  letter  is  in 
perfect  accordance  with  the  statements  of  my  Remonstrance, 
on  the  same  subjects,  you  have  an  argument  not  easily  an- 
swered, to  prove  that  those  statements  are  correct. 

But  Dr.  Woods  stands  not  alone.  Mr.  Farrar  has  similar 
advantages  with  himself,  for  a  correct  knowledge  and  state- 
ment of  the  subject.  This  gentleman,  one  of  the  most  unob- 
trusive of  men,  has  twice  addressed  the  Trustees,  declaring 
with  great  confidence  that  the  Catechism  and  the  Associate 


444      HISTORY  OF  ANDOVER   THEOLOGICAL   SEMINARY. 

Creed  were  designed  by  the  Founders  alike  for  all  the  Pro- 
fessors without  exception.  In  his  second  application  to  the 
Board,  he  expressed  his  wish,  that  the  views  he  had  previously 
declared,  might  be  spread  on  their  Records  as  his  testimony 
to  future  time,  of  what  he  knew  to  be  the  wishes  and  inten- 
tions of  the  Founders.  It  is  an  important  circumstance,  that 
this  gentleman  himself,  by  request  of  the  Founders,  penned 
the  Statutes  additional  to  the  Constitution,  from  the  first 
Article  of  which  has  been  drawn  the  new  and  strange  doc- 
trine, that  the  Associate  Professors  should  not  be  required 
to  assent  to  the  Catechism ;  a  construction  of  the  article  di- 
rectly opposed  to  the  views  of  him  who  penned  it,  and  to  the 
plain  sense  of  the  article  itself.  It  must  be  viewed  as  a  sig- 
nal favor  of  Providence,  that  at  this  day,  when  such  diversity 
of  opinion  prevails  on  the  subject  under  consideration,  two 
gentlemen  survive,  who  perfectly  knew  the  views  of  the 
Founders,  and  who  have  unitedly  and  uniformly  expressed 
the  same  opinion  on  the  subject. 

When,  in  addition  to  these  irrefragable  arguments,  it  is 
considered  that  the  most  distinguished  jurists  in  the  Com- 
monwealth, having  been  consulted,  have  given  decidedly  the 
same  opinion  on  the  subject,  there  would  seem  to  remain  no 
doubt  respecting  it.  I  must  therefore  be  excused  for  consid- 
ering one  of  the  two  great  points  of  my  Remonstrance,  that 
respecting  the  Creed,  and  its  application  to  the  Professors,  as 
effectually  set  at  rest. 

Still  I  am  willing  to  remark  briefly  on  that  part  of  the 
Report,  which  aims  to  disprove  the  obligation  of  the  Associate 
Professors  to  assent  to  the  Catechism  as  part  of  their  Creed. 
The  Report  states  that  the  Creed  was  written  out,  in  the  book 
of  Records,  by  Mr.  Blanchard,  under  the  eye  of  Mr.  Farrar, 
and  the  Committee  of  Exigencies;  and  likewise  that  in  this 
form  it  was  taken  and  subscribed  at  the  opening  of  the  Semi- 
nary, and  for  seventeen  years  afterward.  To  this  it  is  replied, 
that  the  Creed,  in  distinction  from  the  Catechism,  and  that 
only,  was  to  be  written  out  in  detail;  and  this  Mr.  Blanchard 


DR.    DANIEL    DANA^S    PROTESTS.  445 

actually  did.  As  he  had  not  received  direction  from  the 
Committee  as  to  the  form  of  the  caption,  or  the  manner  in  ivliich 
the  provision  in  the  1st  Additional  Statute  should  be  inserted, 
in  order  rightly  to  introduce  the  Creed,  he  could  only  write 
the  Associate  Creed,  and  leave  a  space  above  it,  as  he  did, 
for  the  proper  caption.  But  through  the  crowd  of  business 
pressing  on  the  Committee,  at  that  period  of  excitement,  they 
omitted  to  insert  the  caption,  and  thus  left  unfinished  the 
form  of  subscription  required  by  the  1st  Article  of  the  Ad- 
ditional Statutes.  In  consequence  of  this,  the  Declaration 
and  Subscription  of  the  first  Professors,  at  their  inauguration, 
inadvertently  fell  short  of  the  requirements  of  the  Constitu- 
tion and  Additional  Statutes.  But  this  important  defect  was 
remedied  in  part  by  the  Trustees,  in  Sept.  1813;  this  being 
the  first  time  that  any  Professor  was  required  to  repeat  the 
Declaration  and  Creed.  On  this  occasion  the  Trustees,  ac- 
cording to  the  Report  of  Drs.  Pearson  and  Holmes,  their 
Committee,  determined  that  the  Professor  should  proceed  in 
exact  conformity  to  the  1st  Article  of  the  Additional  Statutes, 
and  should  give  his  assent  to  the  doctrines  of  the  Catechism 
and  Creed.  This  he  did,  and  from  that  time  to  the  present, 
the  Abbot  Professor  has,  at  every  successive  period  of  five 
years,  declared  his  belief  in  the  doctrines  expressed  in  the 
Catechism  and  Creed  and  has  promised  to  teach  accordingly. 
The  remedy  of  the  mistake  made  at  the  opening  of  the 
Seminary,  by  the  vote  of  the  Trustees  in  1813,  was  partial, 
until  1826.  In  1824  the  question  arose  in  the  Board,  whether 
the  Professors  on  the  Associate  Foundation  had  repeated  the 
Creed  according  to  the  Constitution ;  no  one  doubting  that  it 
was  their  duty  to  do  so.  In  1826,  the  Committee,  consisting 
of  Judge  Hubbard,  Dr.  Dana,  and  Samuel  Farrar,  Esq.,  being 
all  present,  the  Trustees  voted  unanimously  that  every  Pro- 
fessor in  the  Seminary  ought  to  repeat  the  Declaration  of  his 
belief  in  the  doctrines  of  the  Catechism,  as  well  as  the  Creed. 
This  vote,  the  principle  of  which  had  been  particularly  ad- 
vocated by  Mr.  Quincy,  was  not  passed,  as  the  Eeport  affirms, 


446       HISTORY   OF    ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

"  without  much  delay,  and  without  much  consideration." 
For  the  Committee  had  it  in  hand  two  years;  and  whether 
in  a  case  of  so  great  importance,  such  men  were  likely  to 
act  in  haste,  and  without  consideration,  you  will  judge. 

From  1826  to  1842,  this  deliberate  act  of  the  Trustees  was 
in  force  and  all  the  Professors  conformed  to  it.  No  one  ob- 
jected to  this  till  1839,  when  one  of  the  faculty  expressed 
some  reluctance  to  declare  assent  to  the  Catechism,  simply 
because  the  Associate  Statutes  did  not  require  it.  Soon  after- 
wards, another  Professor  objected  still  more  strongly  to  the 
vote  of  the  Board  in  1826,  and  made  his  objections  known. 
Whether  the  objections  referred  to  had  influence  on  the 
Board,  when,  in  their  Act  of  1842,  they  excused  the  Associate 
Professors,  is  not  for  me  to  determine.  But  it  was  in  these 
circumstances  that  the  vote  in  1842  was  passed,  and  passed 
as  it  may  be  remembered,  not  harmoniously,  like  the  vote  of 
1826,  but  against  the  earnest  objections  of  Mr.  Farrar,  Mr. 
Fletcher,  Dr.  Burgess,  Dr.  Cogswell,  and  Dr.  Dana ;  and  while 
all  who  then  constituted  the  Board  of  Visitors  regretted  that 
the  vote  of  the  Trustees  in  1826  was  thus  repealed. 

There  remains  but  one  topic  farther,  requiring  discussion. 

In  my  Remonstrance  to  the  Board,  a  principal  place  was 
occupied  by  the  errors  and  defections  of  the  Professor  of 
Christian  Theology.  My  remarks  on  this  point  must  be 
prefaced  by  a  few  hints,  chiefly  in  self-defence. 

The  course  I  have  pursued  respecting  the  Professor  has 
appeared  to  some  to  savor  of  personal  prejudice  and  hostility. 
This  I  must  solemnly  disclaim.  My  mind  does  fall  justice 
to  his  intellectual  powers,  his  marked  ascendency  over  his 
pupils,  and  his  general  popularity.  Yet  it  cannot  be  denied, 
that  these  advantages  if  arrayed  in  opposition  to  the  truth, 
render  that  opposition  the  more  dangerous  and  fatal. 

It  has  been  reported,  and  extensively  believed,  that  in  my 
opposition  to  the  Professor,  and  in  what  I  have  written  re- 
specting him,  I  have  been  instigated  and  aided  by  Dr.  Woods. 
This  suggestion,  so  injurious  to  him  and  to  myself,  is  ut- 


DR.   DANIEL    DANA'S    PROTESTS.  447 

terly  unfounded  and  false.  I  never  published  or  wrote 
anything  on  the  subject  under  his  influence,  or  with  his 
countenance. 

In  my  Kemonstance  to  the  Board,  my  charges  against  the 
Professor  were  perfectly  distinct.  They  involve  plain  de- 
partures in  his  instructions,  from  his  Creed ;  and  this  in  its 
most  essential  articles.  The  charges  were  sustained  by 
proofs  furnished  by  the  very  language  of  the  Professor.  To 
this  the  Report  makes  the  simple  and  concise  reply;  that  in 
my  statements,  there  was  liability  to  mistake.  Is  this  reply 
satisfactory  ?  If,  in  a  court  of  justice,  charges  were  brought, 
and  regularly  proved  against  an  individual,  would  his  advo- 
cate, should  he  simply  state  that  in  the  proof,  there  was  lia- 
bility to  mistake,  be  thought  to  make  a  vigorous  defence  ? 

To  the  grave  charges  just  mentioned,  the  Report  offers 
not  a  word  of  direct  contradiction.  All  its  statements  go  to 
prove  that  the  deviations  suggested  are  improbable;  and  this 
is  all.  But  what  is  improbability,  when  opposed  to  proof 
and  certainty  ?  But  if  improbabilities  and  presumptions  be 
admitted,  what  shall  be  said  to  the  fact  that  neither  the 
Professor,  nor  any  of  his  friends,  have  given  to  the  public  a 
direct  contradiction  on  the  subject.  Can  this  be  explained  ? 
Can  it  be  even  justified  ?  Granting  that  my  own  allegations 
might  be  properly  met  with  disregard  and  silence;  yet  when 
members  well  acquainted  with  the  Professor,  and  some  even 
of  his  own  students,  have  come  forth,  and  made  substantially 
the  same  allegations,  ought  they  not,  if  false,  or  erroneous,  to 
be  contradicted,  and  effectually  put  down  ?  Is  not  this  due 
to  the  character  of  the  Professor,  to  the  reputation  of  the 
Seminary,  to  the  honor  of  the  Trustees,  and  to  the  apprehen- 
sions of  an  anxious  public?  It  is  a  noticeable  fact,  that 
some  of  the  writers,  who  have  publicly  advocated  the  Pro- 
fessor's cause,  have  explicitly  admitted  the  deviations  charged 
by  me;  have  even  gloried  in  them  as  auspicious  presages  of 
still  greater  departures  from  an  obsolete  Creed. 

I  must  then  be  pardoned  for  considering  my  charges  as 


448      HISTORY  OF  ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

neither  refuted,  nor  capable  of  refutation.  They  are  not 
directly  contradicted  in  the  Report  made  to  your  Board. 
Their  truth  is  not  denied  by  those  from  whom,  if  they  are 
false,  such  denial  might  confidently  be  expected.  Their 
truth  has  been  fully  conceded  by  the  friends  and  advocates  of 
the  Professor,  who  exult  in  them  as  signs  of  increasing  light. 
More  than  all,  their  accuracy  is  fully  confirmed  by  students 
who  have  heard  them  from  his  own  lips. 

Much  pains  have  been  taken  to  prove  that  the  Associate 
Creed,  rather  than  the  Catechism,  is  now  the  standard  of 
instruction.  And  this  is  apparently  an  attempt  to  defend 
the  errors  of  the  Theological  Professor.  But  this  is  labor  lost. 
The  Catechism  and  the  Creed  are  in  entire  harmony.  The 
errors  of  the  Professor  are  as  really  opposed  to  the  one,  as 
the  other. 

For  myself  I  offer  no  apology  for  my  persevering  zeal  on 
this  momentous  subject.  I  could  not  have  reposed  my  head 
upon  rny  dying  pillow,  nor  have  hoped  to  appear  with  com- 
fort before  my  final  Judge,  had  I  not  employed  my  utmost 
efforts  in  the  cause.  Yet  these  efforts,  I  am  painfully  sensi- 
ble, have  been  mingled  with  much  sinful  imperfection.  In 
this  I  would  humbly  ask  pardon  of  God,  and  ask  pardon  of 
you,  my  brethren.  My  only  hope  is,  that  He  who  has  all 
hearts  in  his  hands,  and  all  events  under  his  control,  may 
bring  light  from  all  this  darkness,  and  overrule  these  painful 
conflicts  to  the  ultimate  establishment  of  truth,  and  the 
triumph  of  his  glorious  cause  over  all  opposition. 


IN  looking  over  some  papers  a  few  days  ago  I  accidentally  came 
across  a  letter  of  Rev.  Jonathan  French  of  Andover  to  Hon. 
Nathantel  Niles  of  Vermont  which  was  written  in  1778.  The 
following  is  an  extract  which  will  be  an  interesting  document  to 
all  the  friends  of  Andover  Seminary. 

Our  friend  Phillips  has  become  a  neighbor,  living  in  a  house 
near,  which  was  purchased  for  him,  with  another  house  and  two 
farms,  by  his  father  at  Exeter,  for  the  purpose  of  supporting  a  free 
School  or  an  Academy  which  they  are  founding  in  that  place.  They 
have  appropriated  a  generous  sum  as  a  fund  for  this  purpose. 
The  schoolhouse  is  now  erected,  and  the  Seminary,  it  is  supposed, 
will  be  opened  in  about  a  month  from  this  time.  A  plan  of  ...  -1  I 
mean  the  regulations,  the  branches  of  litera  .  . .  taught,  etc.,  I  may 
some  time  or  other  perhaps  transmit  to  you.  I  make  no  doubt  you 
will  be  pleased  .  .  .  The  school  has  suggested  a  thought  which 
I  have  often  revolved  in  my  mind.  "What  if  some  enterprising, 
pious  genius  should  rise  up ,  and  set  afoot  a  subscription  for 
founding  a  Theological  Academy.  Suppose  the  plan  well  con- 
cocted; and  engaged  as  well  as  engaging  persons  should a 

about  and  procure  signers  till  a  sufficient  .  .  subscribed  to  raise 
a  building  in  some  .  .  the  country,  sufficient  to  contain  a  number 
.  .  .  about  equal  to  the  number  who  annually  .  .  to  the  study  of 
divinity;  and  sufficient  to  provide  .  .  some  support  for  a  Presi- 
dent. The  students  .  .  such  only  as  have  been  graduated  at 
some  ....  are  otherwise  qualified  to  enter  upon  the  study  .  .  . 
should  tarry  three  years  at  the  Academy  ...  in  common.  None 
should  be  allowed  to  enter  ...  of  sobriety  and  good  morals. 
The  President  should  ...  in  the  land,  for  good  principles,  learn- 

1  Burned.  — EDITOR.  2  Badly  burned.  -  EDITOR. 


450       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

ing,  and  piety.  .  .  the  best  of  libraries  for  the  purpose  be  pro- 
cured. .  .  .  whole  course  of  divinity  be  studied  and  everything 
.  .  that  may  assist  to  qualify  young1  gentlemen  for  the  work  of  the 
ministry  be  taught,  etc.,  etc.  Are  .  .  affluent  and  charitable 
enough  to  promote  such  a  design,  and  could  not  such  a  plan, 
under  the  smiles  of  Heaven,  be  likely  to  revive  and  continue  the 
purity  of  doctrine,  and  furnish  the  churches  in  this  land  with  the 
ablest  ministers  of  Jesus  Christ,  in  spite  of  all  opposers?  But 
you  will  say  my  genius  is  rather  to  frame  plans  than  to  execute 
them.  I  do  not  mean,  however,  to  make  a  plan,  but  only  a  hint 
of  a  plan;  or  a  thought  that  might  be  improved  into  a  plan,  the 
most  serviceable  in  the  cause  of  religion  of  anything,  perhaps, 
ever  set  on  foot  in  this  or  any  country.  I  wish  the  thought  may 
be  remembered  if  I  should  come  to  see  you,  for  I  have  meditated 
a  visit  if  I  can  get  an  exchange. 

Your  friend  and  brother, 

JONATHAN  FRENCH. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Deacon  Isaac  Warren. 

NEWBUEY,  April  16,  1805. 

DEAR  BROTHER, — As  to  Dr.  Morse's  proposal  to  me,1  I  thank 
him  for  the  obligation  he  has  conferred.  But  I  must  think  he 
shows  more  friendship  than  discernment  in  looking  to  me.  I 
have  written  him  on  the  subject.  But  hoping  to  see  you  at  Salem 
next  week,  at  the  ordination,  I  shall  not  enlarge.  I  cannot  de- 
cide respecting  what  duty  and  propriety  dictate.  I  am  not  fur- 
nished for  such  a  work 

Why  can't  you  come  with  Dr.  Morse  to  Salem  ?  The  way  is 
short  and  pleasant.  If  your  family  circumstances  permit,  I  think 
I  shall  see  you  there.2 

Your  brother, 

L.  WOODS. 

P.  S. — I  would  say  to  your  son,  that  my  engagements  have 
been  such  that  I  have  attended  only  to  the  remaining  part  of  the 
chapter  in  Hebrew  which  we  began  together.  After  Wednesday 
night  I  hope  to  pursue  it. 

1  In  regard  to  being  a  joint  editor  of  the  Panoplist. — EDITOB. 

2  Ordination  of  Eev.  Brown  Emerson,  D.D.,  as  colleague  with  the  Rev. 
Samuel  Hopkins  of  Salem,  April  24th,  1805.     Found  among  Deacon  Warren's 
papers  by  President  Woods  after  his  father's  death.— EDITOE. 


APPENDIX.  451 

From  Dr.  Sirring  to  L.  Woods. 

NEWBTTBYPOBT,  June  .  .  1805. 

DEAR  BROTHER, — I  take  this  opportunity  to  offer  my  deepest 
gratitude  for  the  wise  and  .  .  .  manner  in  which  your  question 
was  considered  yesterday  before  the  SANHEDRIM.  As  you  have 
passed  the  Rubicon,  some  of  the  weapons  of  warfare  may  not  be 
found  an  incumbrance.  It  is  for  want  of  information  that  we  see 
so  many  new  things.  There  is  no  new  thing  under  the  sun.  The 
.  .  .  the  day  are  what  existed  before. 

I  put  it  as  a  mere  query  whether  a  dialogue  on  the  half  way 
or  the  half  covenant  .  .  .  executed  would  not  be  proper  for  our 
Magazine.  Think  and  realise. — 

Dr.  Dana  let  the  cat  out  of  the  old  bag  and, .  .  .  not  administer 
an  oath  in  the  name  of  God,  or  of  a  magistrate?  So,  so!  is  the 
covenant  but  the  .  .  of  obligation  ?  If  so,  all  we  have  to  do  is  to 
make  .  .  folks  mean  that  they  will  be  good  by  the  help  of  God; 
and  if  they  will  not  take  oath,  we  must  either  .  .  them,  or  let  them 
alone. 

S.  S. 

From  Dr.  Spring  to  L.  Woods. 

NEWBUETPOET,  June  .... 

DEAR  BROTHER, — Yours  of  yesterday  informed  me  of  your 
intention  to  be  in  Port  to-morrow.  I  doubtless  made  a  mistake. 
My  lecture  was  last  week.  I  thank  you  for  your  goodness.  To- 
morrow in  the  afternoon  I  shall  be  engaged  with  my  parochial 
children.  I  hope,  however,  to  see  you  at  dinner,  and  spend  as 
much  time  as  possible  with  my  friend.  It  is  a  question  with  me 
whether  you  ought  not  to  throw  your  reasons  into  an  elegant 
dialogue.  The  .  .  that  it  will  make  the  Magazine  unpopular,  I 
don't,  for  my  part,  believe  it.  The  other  side  will  read  it  more 
on  that  account,  and  I  am  sure  our  friends  will  approve  it.  The 
shameful  .  .  .  and  dangerous  theory  of  half  way  ought  in  this 
way  to  be  candidly  opposed;  at  any  rate  it  will  do  no  harm  to 
prepare  it  for  our  Conference.  WE  WILL  JUDGE.  Accept  and  make 
love.  Mrs.  Spring  had  a  most  prosperous  ride  to  Hadley. 

From  yours, 

SAML.  SPRING. 


452       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

From  Dr.  Spring  to  L.  Woods. 

NEWBURYPORT,  July  9,  .  . 

DEAR  BROTHER, — We  are  much  encouraged  in  our  enterprise. 
Nothing,  Sir,  is  wanting  but  exertion  to  give  a  wide  spread  of 
truth,  by  this  little  periodical  venture.  Brother  Emmons  has  sent 
on  an  excellent  piece  relative  to  the  nature  of  the  human  soul  and 
its  several  stages  of  influence.  That  man  thinks  as  well  as  reasons. 
It  is  the  only  way.  Let  us  gird  up  our  loins. 

As  to  your  method  of  combat, — I  say  amen  to  it.  If  you  can 
make  them  haw  or  gee,  or  both,  or  anything  else,  I  shall  rejoice. 
For  I  have  been  so  long  coaxed  at  times,  at  others  scolded  at,  at 
others  despised  and  hated  by  those  mortal  enemies  of  Hopkin- 
sianism,  that  I  am  almost  incapable  of  the  influence  of  motives 
respecting  them.  They  mean  nothing  but  to  divest  us  of  influ- 
ence, and  you  will  see  it  ere  long.  But  all  this  excuse  is  the 
offense  of  the  moment,  and  let  me  be  your  friend. 

S.  S. 

From  Dr.  Spring  to  L.  Woods. 

NEWBURYPORT,  July  .... 

VERY  DEAR  BROTHER, — I  suspected  in  consequence  of  your  note 
that  I  had  used  the  word  authentic.  It  is  probable  I  did.  You 
observed  that  you  had  lately  examined  the  matter.  I  intend  to 
look  .  .  .  Bennet,  etc.,  for  I  know  we  must  refer  to  good  usage 
rather  than  Dictionary  makers.  But  let  me  ask,  what  do  we  mean 
by  the  genuineness  of  the  gospel  ?  .  .  What  by  the  authenticity  ? 
What  by  the  creditability  of  the  gospel  ?  What  also  is  the  proper 
discrimination  between  the  respective  answers  to  these  questions  ? 

Your  remarks  before  the  Conference,  for  which  I  thank  you, 
were  genuine;  but  whether  they  were  authentic,  I  wait  with  patience 
to  ascertain.  You  love  the  onus  laborandi  and  the  onus  probandi, 
and  will  therefore  answer  your  friend  and  brother, 

S.  SPRING. 


From  Samuel  Austin,  D.D.,  to  L.  Woods. 

WORCESTER,  June  .  .  1805. 

DEAR  BROTHER, —  ....  What  a  miserable  minister  am  I,  with 
such  a  heart,  so  dull  a  mind,  and  so  much  inactivity  !  Perhaps  I 
aim  to  let  you  know  how  humble  I  am  to  say  so.  How  deceitful 
is  the  heart !  How  desperately  wicked !  Let  us  flee,  from  all  that 
ever  was,  or  is,  or  ever  can  be  in  ourselves,  to  the  cross.  Let  us 


APPENDIX.  453 

make  Christ  our  all,  and  then  we  shall  live  and  preach  better. 
How  do  you  feel  when  you  reflect  on  what  you  have  seen  and 
heard  among  men  who  call  themselves  Christian  Brethren.  For 
my  part,  if  I  am  sick  of  myself,  I  am  not  much  less  so  of  the 
greater  part  of  the  good  men  I  know.  It  seems  to  me  there  is 
but  little  of  the  gospel  spirit  anywhere.  So  much  jealousy,  and 
so  many  reasons  for  it.  Such  division  and  such  difficulties  in  the 

way  of  agreement Surely  if  there  is  anything  in  religion, 

the  union,  the  visible,  systematic,  co-operating  union  of  orthodox 
ministers  and  churches  is  desirable.  Our  present  state  of  dis- 
union and  confusion  is  our  reproach.  If  the  satisfaction  of  acting 
in  concert  is  denied  us,  we  must  do  all  the  good  we  possibly  can  in 
our  separate  stations.  Do  not  secede  from  the  Hopkinsian  doctrine. 
It  is  solid  rock.  Do  not  neglect  the  Magazine.  If  the  Panoplist 
can  live,  be  it  so.  But  the  Magazine  must  not  be  forsaken. 

Your  brother, 

S.  AUSTIN. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBTJBT,  July  1,  1805. 

BEVEREND  AND  DEAR  SIR, — To-day  Panoplist  is  born.  I  hope  he 
may  grow  up  and  be  a  good  man,  the  friend  of  knowledge  and 
religion.  I  have  no  food  yet  cooked  for  the  babe,  but  have  some 
doing.  The  second  number  of  Sketches,  I  hope  soon  to  finish. 
I  have  completed  nothing  in  the  way  of  reviews.  John  Pye 
Smith  I  admired,  and  will  try  to  prepare  something.  Maclaine's 
life  I  have  not  yet  transcribed,  and  send  on  the  Christian  Observer 
with  it.  I  suppose  Brother  Parish  will  bring  along  a  bundle  in 
season.  I  hope  to  have  two  or  three  things  in  readiness  some 
time  next  week,  perhaps  by  10th  inst.  » 

As  far  as  I  have  had  time  to  examine  Panoplist,1  I  am  satisfied. 
Your  page  to  correspondents  is  pretty  well  charged  with  awaken- 
ing matter.  It  looks  as  though  the  Editors  felt  able  to  stand  up 
and  look  the  world  in  the  face.  We  greatly  need  the  panoply  our- 
selves that  we  may  furnish  others.  The  preface  reads  well.  Will 
it  do  to  go  through  with  Jay  as  it  is  begun  ?  Will  it  not  be  too 
much? 

Suppose  I  should  write  a  little  piece,  about  a  page  or  two,  in- 
culcating the  study  of  Scripture  and  then  recommending  Scott's 
Family  Bible  as  an  assistant,  with  some  remarks  on  the  man  and 
his  work.  I  have  his  life  written  by  himself. 

1  First  number. 


454       HISTORY  OF  ANDOVER   THEOLOGICAL   SEMINARY. 

'Tis  good  to  have  the  work  come  out  in  season  according  to 
promise.  .  .  . 

I  hope  and  pray  there  may  not  be  a  spice  of  ill-nature  or  bit- 
terness in  the  whole  Panoplist.  It  doesn't  belong  to  the  Christian 
armor. 

Your  friend  and  brother, 

L.  WOODS. 

From  Dr.  T.  Dwight  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEW  HAVEN,  July  6,  1805. 

DEAR  SIR, — This  will  be  handed  to  you  by  my  friend,  Mr. 
Bristol,  a  respectable  lawyer  of  this  town.  I  know  not  what  stay 
he  will  make  at  Boston;  but  should  it  be  in  your  power  to  direct 
his  attention  to  the  objects  in  your  neighborhood  especially  mer- 
iting the  attention  of  a  traveller,  or  to  facilitate  his  introduction 
to  any  of  them,  it  would  gratify  me.  He  knows  not  that  I  men- 
tion him  to  you. 

I  enter  into  all  your  feelings  and  interests  as  they  are  mentioned 
in  your  letter,  but  I  can  do  little  or  nothing  but  to  wish  and  pray 
for  your  success.  My  eyes  are  materially  worse  than  ever;  and  not 
improbably  hopeless  even  of  continuing  where  they  are.  I  do 
almost  nothing  with  them  but  read  a  little  in  the  Bible,  or  at 
solitary  seasons  in  a  newspaper;  and  once  in  a  great  while  I  an- 
swer a  letter.  I  have  been  doubting  a  good  while  whether  I 
could  write  this. 

I  am  disappointed  in  two  things  which  you  mention;  the  union 
of  the  Arminians  with  the  Unitarians;  and  the  separation  of  the 
Hopkinsians  from  the  old  Calvinists;  i.  e.,  in  the  present  contro- 
versy. Both  are  in  my  view  unwise.  The  question  concerning 
the  Trinity  interests  them  both,  equally  with  .  .  Calvinists;  so  far 
as  they  hold  their  pro  .  .  .  doctrines. 

.  .  .  assistance  can  or  will  be  furnished  in  ...  state,  I  can- 
not determine.  There  are  men  enough  and  talents  enough.  Had 
I  eyes,  you  would  find  one  at  least,  embarking  heartily  in  the  de- 
sign and  forwarding  it  with  something  beside  good  ^shes.  You 
will  find  occasion  for  all  your  prudence  and  patience;  but  when 
the  war  is  fairly  begun  I  suppose  soldiers  will  enlist. 

You  say  nothing  in  your  last  about  your  President.  I  sup- 
pose nothing  has  been  done.  What  the  prospects  are,  I  am  ig- 
norant, but  fear  they  are  bad  enough.  The  election  of  Mr.  Ware 
has  occasioned  very  serious  sensations  in  this  State  and  in  the 
northern  part  of  Massachusetts. 


APPENDIX.  455 

We  shall  expect  you  and  Mrs.  Morse  at  Commencement. 

I  am  going  to  Hadley  (D.  F.)  on  Tuesday  to  perform,  most 
probably,  the  last  offices  to  my  sister  Porter,  who  lies  very  dan- 
gerously ill.  Present  Mrs.  Dwight's  and  my  own  best  compliments 
to  Mrs.  Morse,  and  believe  me  ever  your  friend  and  brother, 

TIMOTHY  DWIGHT. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBUBY,  Dec.  24,  .  . 

DEAR  SIR, —        .......... 

It  is  my  intention  to  write  another  letter  soon,  in  the  name  of 
Constans.  I  wish  to  make  some  advances  and  get  into  the  heart 
of  the  business,  before  the  year  closes.  I  think  some  other  parts 
of  the  business  assigned  to  me  might  be  better  omitted  than  that. 

...  of  Ipswich  affairs.  I  don't  enjoy  myself  in  such  .  .  . 
contention  is  likely  to  continue.  I  am  sorry  for  all  ...  religion 
is  deeply  wounded;  its  adversaries  live.  Oh!  what  a  quarrelsome 
world !  Look  at  nations,  look  at  towns,  parishes,  neighborhoods, 
associations,  families, — look  through  the  world; — all  seems  full  of 
division  and  strife.  None  but  the  Almighty  Peacemaker  can 
bring  the  world  to  harmony. 

Our  last  conversation  left  a  deep  impression  on  my  mind. 
Your  plan  respecting  a  theological  and  literary  institution,  I  think 
highly  important  and  deserving  of  the  most  persevering  attention. 
What  success  Heaven  wih1  grant  cannot  be  known.  But  I  must 
make  one  request, — sincere,  earnest  request;  that  you  would  not, 
by  any  means,  on  any  occasion,  mention  my  name  with  reference 
to  that  object.  What  you  said  to  me,  I  gratefully,  though  hum- 
bly accept,  as  a  proof  of  the  most  undeserved,  unexpected  friend- 
ship. But  let  it  proceed  no  further.  My  judgment  and  my  con- 
science tell  me  the  arrangement  would  not  be  for  the  interest  of 
science  or  of  piety.  The  mention  of  me  would  prove  the  greatest 
incumbrance.  Such  is  my  view  of  myself,  and  such  my  idea  of 
prevailing  opinion. 

You  will  run  over  the  two  pieces  I  have  transcribed,  with  your  pen 
in  hand.  Probably  you  will  still  make  considerable  amendments. 

Brother  P.'s  children  have  been  sick,  but  are  better.  He  was 
for  a  while  distressed  and  almost  overpowered  by  his  family 
afflictions. 

With  cordial  affection  to  you  and  Mrs.  Morse,  I  subscribe 
your  friend  and  servant, 

L.  WOODS. 


456       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBUBY,  March  15,  1805. 

REVEREND  AND  DEAR  SIR, —        ....... 

I  hear  strange  things  from  College.  Will  not  Dr.  Pearson's  char- 
acter suffer  by  resigning  at  this  particular  time  ?  Mr.  Spring  told 
me  he  had  received  a  most  solemn  letter  from  one  of  the  seniors 
on  the  present  state  of  things  at  College.  Write  me  some  par- 
ticulars as  to  the  election.  I  long  to  know  what  Providence  is 
designing.  I  think  .  .  .  has  placed  you  in  the  front  of 
the  battle  against  the  powers  of  error  and  wickedness.  The 
Lord  support  and  guide  you,  and  give  you  victory.  If  we  can 
only  get  all  Calvinists  together,  we  need  not  fear.  Hopkinsians 
must  come  down,  and  moderate  men  must  come  up  till  they  meet. 
Then  the  host  wih1  be  mighty. 

I  am  fully  satisfied  with  your  note,  excepting  that  you  altered 
it  to  my  honor  more  than  I  deserve. 

Yours  most  affectionately, 

L.  WOODS. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBUKT,  April  7,  1806. 
REVEREND  AND  DEAR  SIR, — Have  you  received  my  letter?     Have 

you  proposed  the  matter  respecting  the  Memoirs  to  Mr.  ? 

Have  you  received  answer  ?  Does  he  say  anything  about  our 
controversy?  Will  he  answer?  What  is  Dr.  Pearson's  opinion 
on  this  subject?  Please  to  solve  the  questions  as  far  as  may  be 
consistent. 

I  mean  now  to  sit  down  to  Panoplist,  and  will  forward  things 
as  fast  as  I  can.  How  does  the  orthodoxy  of  Conslans  suit  your 
associated  brethren  in  Boston?  Conner  makes  converts  to  Strong. 
We  are  comfortable. 

Yours  sincerely, 

L.  WOODS. 

P.  S. — Please  to  give  love  to  Deacon  Warren;  teh1  him  Mrs. 
Woods  has  come  down  from  her  chamber.     I  hope  to  hear  from 
soon;  write  a  line  by  post.. 


APPENDIX.  457 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

April  20,  1806,  Sabbath  night,  almost  1. 

DEAR  Sm, — Both  of  your  late  letters  are  before  me.  I  wish 
to  know  what  the  hint  about  ecclesiastical  affairs  is,  which  you 
have  sent  to  press.  Brother  Worcester  cannot  be  expected  to  do 
anything.  Let  me  know  in  some  way  what  the  complexion  of  the 
performance  you  wish  to  be  written  for  election.  Perhaps  the 
hint  now  in  press  will  give  a  sufficient  lead.  If  not,  send  some 
particular  hints,  and  set  up  some  landmarks.  Mr.  Spring,  I  am 
confident,  will  be  at  the  greatest  distance  from  abusing  your 
frankness  and  sincerity.  I  have  had  an  interview  with  him ;  con- 
versed on  all  matters.  He  doesn't  expect  Mr.  Bartlett  will  do  any- 
thing towards  an  academy.1  Still  he  adheres  to  his  wish  of  a  mere 
theological  academy,  and  has  serious  thoughts  of  making  an  effort. 
His  plan,  I  think,  is  good.  I  could  not  discourage  it.  But  we 
wish  to  have  all  the  orthodox  influence  in  our  State  concentrated 
in  one  theological  institution.  This  is  exceedingly  desirable.  He 
[Mr.  Spring]  seems  in  a  state  of  doubt  and  hesitation  as  to  Maga- 
zine. He  doesn't  complain  of  the  proposal  contemplated,  but  men- 
tioned sharing  in  the  editorship,  etc.  I  told  him  the  Panoplist 
is  ours.  We  have  borne  the  burden;  we  have  made  the  effort. 
And  now  we  are  willing  to  treat  the  Missionary  Society  with  the  ut- 
most generosity;  .  .  .  them  our  books  at  such  a  rate  as  to  put  some- 
thing into  their  funds.  He  does  not  complain.  But  I  think  they 
will  not  bear  anything  like  a  proposal  to  drop  Magazine,  though 
Mr.  Spring  says  he  cannot  devote  himself  to  it.  My  reviews  were 
not  fit  to  be  seen  by  either  you  or  Dr.  P.,  much  less  by  you 
both  together.  I  doubt  not  you  have  made  them  better.  They 
were  done  in  haste.  I  think  I  shall  endeavor  to  be  at  Installation, 
and  shall  lay  out  necessary  business  afterwards.  I  am  now 
pressed  with  engagements,  having  a  sermon,  delivered  at  the 
funeral  of  Mrs.  Church,  to  prepare  for  press.  Do  excuse  me  from 
preface  and  index-making.  I  should  find  it  new  work.  You  can 
do  it  off-hand.  I  will  try  to  begin  with  Scott.  Mr.  Parish  was 
appointed  to  review  Dow.,  I  think. 

When  you  say  "  The  academy  looks  up,"  I  am  entertained 
with  the  brilliancy  and  enterprise  you  manifest.  I  know  not  what 
grounds  you  have  to  speak  with  such  animation.  But  we  know, 
if  it  be  of  God,  it  will  look  up,  and  stand  up,  and  flourish. 
Mrs.  Woods  continues  feeble.  Accept  our  sincere  esteem.  We 
hope  to  see  you  this  week. 

In  great  haste,  yours,  etc., 

L.  WOODS. 
1  /.  e.,  a  common  academy. — L.  W. 


458       HISTORY   OF    ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBUEY,  April  29,  1806. 

REV.  AND  DEAR  SIR, — Yours  of  yesterday  I  have  received.  I  am 
glad  of  your  hints,  if  I  am  to  attempt  anything  upon  the  subject. 
They  are  congenial  with  my  general  reflections,  but  help  to  bring 
my  mind  to  a  state  which  is  necessary  in  order  to  begin,  or  even 
to  determine  on  beginning.  I  feel  quite  destitute  of  the  requisite 
information.  My  general  plan  is  this:  to  point  out  boldly  yet 
candidly,  fearlessly  yet  modestly,  the  evils  of  the  times,  the  evils 
which  affect  our  Zion,  both  ministry  and  churches;  to  display  the 
defects  in  the  present  mode  of  preaching,  the  awful  neglect  of 
those  gospel  truths  which  animated  our  forefathers,  which  fur- 
nished the  groundwork  of  the  reformation,  which  have  overset 
the  thrones  of  heathen  idolatry  and  reformed  the  world;  to  show 
the  evils  of  disunion,  to  mourn  over  the  desolations  of  our  churches 
in  point  of  discipline  and  in  point  of  godliness,  to  notice  the  con- 
tempt of  creeds,  to  give  a  broad  hint  at  the  uiiscriptural,  illiberal 
spirit  of  "  liberality"  ;  to  show  what  is  wanting  to  beautify  Zion, 
to  make  the  grand  conclusion  this;  that  &  theological  academy  on 
the  orthodox  plan  is  needed — that  is,  is  loudly  called  for  by  the 
state  of  our  ecclesiastical  affairs  ;  that  we  must  have  one,  if  we 
would  transmit  uncorrupt  Christianity  to  posterity.  After  three 
or  four  numbers,  say  about  dog  days,  it  will  be  time  to  grow  ...  if 
things  work  so  as  to  warrant  it.  But  on  such  a  subject  we  must 
have  no  higher  spirit  in  Panoplist  than  we  can  show  in  practice. 
These  are  some  of  my  loose,  undigested  thoughts.  I  utter  them 
that  you  may  see  in  season  whether  my  mind  is  going  right.  I 
will  attempt  to  prepare  a  kind  of  introduction  t6  the  subject  for 
the  next  number,  though  it  may  not  come  till  the  middle  of  the 
month.  The  state  of  my  family  is  such,  and  together  with  my 
intention  to  journey  to  Worcester  County,  that  I  cannot  possibly 
go  to  Charlestown  before  election.  I  am  very  sorry  I  cannot 
comply  with  your  proposal  for  next  Sabbath,  and  that  I  cannot 
enjoy  the  pleasure  of  being  at  Installation.  But  I  stay  chiefly 
that  I  may  attend  to  the  business  assigned  me  for  the  Panoplixt. 
I  have  prepared  a  review  No.  1  of  Scott,  and,  if  it  is  judged  best, 
shall  continue  it.  I  will  send  it  by  Brother  Parish  if  he  conies 
next  week,  or,  if  not,  by  somebody  else. 

I  thank  you  for  your  enlivening  letter,  and  subscribe  yours 
with  great  obligation  and  esteem, 

L.  WOODS. 


APPENDIX.  459 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBUBY,  May  10,  1806. 

DEAR  SIR, — I  have  been  prevented  from  doing  so  much  as  I 
intended  and  you  probably  expected.  What  I  send  is  merely  a 
preface  or  introduction  to  what  I  design.  If  God  give  me  health 
and  opportunity,  I  mean  to  attend  to  the  subject  with  care.  It 
will  afford  a  number  now  and  then  through  the  year,  if  it  be 
found  best  to  pursue  it. 

Brother  Parish,  I  presume,  has  committed  to  you  what  I  have 
written  on  Scott.  The  article  on  the  decalogue  I  must  omit  this 
month.  I  anticipate  the  pleasure  and  advantage  of  seeing  you  at 
election.  I  must  make  a  turn  of  it.  You  may  lay  out  the  usual 
quantity  of  business  for  me. 

I  am  satisfied  it  will  not  be  expedient  to  make  any  proposals 
to  the  Missionary  Society.  They  are  not  in  a  frame  to  receive  a  » 
proposal  with  suitable  candor  and  cordiality.  I  think  they  will 
exert  themselves  to  continue  Magazine,  and  that  object  will 
lead  them  to  suspect  hostility  in  any  one  who  does  what  will  help 
the  circulation  of  the  Panoplist,  especially  on  their  ground.  I 
think  they  will  be  the  least  likely  to  suspect  us,  if  we  maintain  a 
respectful  silence  towards  them.  But  perhaps  further  consulta- 
tion and  inquiry  will  end  in  a  different  view. 

With  sincere  esteem  and  love,  I  subscribe  yours, 

L.  WOODS. 

P.  S. — If  you  think  best,  you  may  say  something  in  page  to 
correspondents,  which  will  direct  the  attention  and  conversation  of 
ministers  to  the  subject  on  which  I  have  begun  to  write,  and 
which  will  procure  some  valuable  letters  on  the  subject  at  large, 
from  which  I  might  derive  advantage. 

From  L.   Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBURY,  July  16,  1806. 

DEAR  SIR, — By  Mrs.  Woods  I  received  yours  of  the  14th. 
I  rejoice  in  the  prospect  of  seeing  you  here  this  month.  Please 
to  inform  me  what  week,  and  if  you  can,  what  part  of  the  week 
we  may  expect  you.  I  shall  wish  to  be  free  from  engagements 
abroad,  and  have  leisure  to  wait  on  you  and  Mrs.  Morse,  I 
hope,  and  to  enjoy  your  pleasing  company.  'Tis  a  delightful 
anticipation.  I  wish  you  could  spend  the  Sabbath  here. 

You  may  acknowledge  another  number  of   The  Survey,  Re- 


460       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

view  of  M.  Farland,  Eckley's  sermon  before  the  Society  for  Propa- 
gating, etc.,  of  Dr.  Lyman's  convention  sermon,  and  of  Nott's 
missionary  sermon,  and  another  number  of  Constans. 

As  to  "Impartiality."  It  would  deface  the  beauty  of  the  Pan- 
oplist  to  publish  such  newspaper  stuff.  Let  it  go  to  the  news- 
paper. The  strictures  from  Philadelphia  however  are  not  sufficiently 
intelligible  for  readers.  If  I  were  at  leisure  I  would  write  an 
article  for  the  newspaper.  But  let  somebody  do  it  with  Peter 
Poetaster  to  help;  or  let  some  extracts  from  that  thing  be  published 
with  a  few  additional  remarks.  I  hate  to  fight  with  such  crea- 
tures as  the  Anthologists.  They  can  make  the  loudest  noise. 
They  never  will  feel  conquered.  They  will  use  instruments  and 
methods  of  battle,  which  we  disapprove  and  despise.  Let  not 
our  pages  be  soiled  with  their  matters. 

Yours  sincerely, 

L.  WOODS. 

From  Charles  Coffin  to  L.   Woods. 

KNOXVILLE,  Aug.  29,  1806. 

DEAR  BROTHER, — When  I  am  writing  to  a  New  England  friend 
a  multitude  of  questions  rush  upon  my  mind.  Some  in  the 
present  case  are  these.  What  remarkable  things  have  occurred 
in  your  parish,  in  the  vicinity,  in  the  association,  in  New  Eng- 
land at  large,  affecting  the  prospects  of  learning,  religion,  truth, 
and  the  church?  What  new  revivals  begun,  what  old  ones 
advanced?  What  new  candidates  licensed,  what  old  ones  settled? 
What  ordained  ministers  dead  or  dismissed  ?  What  is  the  state 
of  the  Missionary  Society  and  of  its  Magazine  ?  How  comes  on 
the  Panoplistf  Whose  image  and  superscription  does  it  bear? 
What  effect  on  the  prospects  of  Harvard  University  have  the 
elections  of  Professor  Ware  and  President  Webber  had  ?  Is 
there  yet  a  Professor  of  Divinity  in  Dartmouth  College  ?  Have 
any  important  measures  respecting  ministerial  communion  been 
lately  adopted  in  the  Massachusetts  convention  of  ministers  ? 

Your  affectionate  brother  in  the  gospel, 

CHARLES  COFFIN. 

From  L.   Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

WORCESTER,  Oct.  17,  1806. 

REV.  AND  DEAR  SIR, — We  have  just  arrived.  Mrs.  Woods  has 
sustained  the  ride  exceedingly  well.  Providence  has  favored  us 


APPENDIX.  461 

with  very  fine  weather,  and  with  agreeable  friends,  all  the  way, 
and  made  our  journey  very  prosperous. 

I  shall  immediately  enter  upon  the  Review  of  Livingston,  etc., 
and  send  what  I  can  the  fore  part  of  next  week.  On  my  way 
here  I  spent  a  long  evening  with  Dr.  Emmons  in  Franklin. 
Union1  and  the  College,2  were  the  principal  topics.  He  stated 
his  objections  to  the  union  scheme  in  the  General  Association. 
Then  I  exhibited  my  views.  He  made  but  few  rejoinders,  and 
seemed  nearer  being  pleased  and  satisfied,  than  I  expected.  I 
mean  to  write  him  on  the  subject.  If  we  can  gain  him,  I  doubt 
not  we  shall  gain  that  large  Association.  As  to  the  college,  I 
think  he  will  co-operate  with  all  his  might,  and  other  influential 
men  of  his  stamp,  if  they  can  see  that  Hopkinsians  are  not  neg- 
lected and  trampled  upon  in  the  plan  and  direction  of  the  Insti- 
tution. He  is  pleased  with  the  idea  of  a  College  on  purpose  to 
make  ministers.  He  expressed  his  fear,  however,  that  ministers 
from  the  intended  institution  would  be  far  less  respectable,  than 
those  who  have  the  advantage  of  an  education  at  a  Univer- 
sity. I  replied,  that  the  Theological  College  must  be  so  re- 
spectable, that  graduates  at  our  colleges,  who  are  seriously 
inclined  to  the  ministry,  will  go  there  to  complete  their  pre- 
paratory studies.  I  told  him,  it  must  be  like  Doddridge's 
Academy,  from  which  the  most  respectable  and  most  useful 
preachers  were  expected  and  obtained.  He  said  these  were 
pleasing  views  of  the  subject,  and  gave  it  as  his  opinion,  that  it 
is  very  important  to  have  one  Theological  College,  which  all  on  the 
orthodox  side  shall  join  and  support.  We  talked  of  having  an  equal 
representation  of  every  class  of  orthodox  ministers  in  the  con- 
stitution and  guidance  of  the  institution.  Something  like  this 
will  be  a  necessary  condition  of  union3  in  the  College. 

Please  to  accept  our  grateful  acknowledgments  to  you  and 
Mrs.  Morse.  May  heaven  reward  the  amiable  kindness  which 
we  experienced  at  your  house. 

I  am,  dear  sir,  yours  in  the  tender est  and  happiest  bonds, 

L.  WOODS. 


1  Union  of  all  parties  of  Orthodox.  2  /.  e.f  a  Divinity  College. 

3  The  union  so  often  referred  to  was  not  the  union  of  the  two  Seminaries 
afterwards  contemplated,  but  of  the  Calvinists  and  Hopkinsians  in  one 
school.  — EDITOR. 


462       HISTORY  OF  ANDOVER   THEOLOGICAL   SEMINARY. 

From  Dr.  Morse  to  L.   Woods. 

CHAELESTOWN,  Oct.  21,  1806. 

MY  DEAR  SIR, — Your  letter  received  to-day  from  Worcester, 
gave  us  great  pleasure.  We  cordially  unite  with  you  in  thanks 
to  the  AUTHOR  of  all  our  blessings,  that  you  have  had  so  pros- 
perous a  journey.  We  hope  Mrs.  W.  will,  in  due  time,  reach 
home  perfectly  recovered. 

Your  interview  with  Dr.  Emmons,  and  the  result  of  it,  does 
my  heart  good.  I  am  greatly  encouraged  to  hope  that  a  cor- 
dial union,  so  devoutly  to  be  wished  by  all  good  men,  may  yet 
be  effected.  Talk  with  brother  Austin  on  the  subject.1  Its  im- 
portance magnifies  the  more  it  is  contemplated.  Call  not  the 
Institution  a  College  but  a  Theological  Academy.  The  idea  is 
to  admit  young  men  into  this  school  who  have  received  educa- 
tion at  some  of  our  Colleges.  I  believe  a  plan  can  be  formed, 
which  shall  meet  the  views  and  feelings  of  all  evangelical  men. 
There  is  no  wish  to  neglect  or  to  put  in  the  background  the 
Hopkinsians,  but  to  have  them  unite  on  generous  principles.  It 
appears  to  me  probable,  that  we  must  very  soon  take  open  and 
decided  ground.  A  man  of  influence,  and  on  the  other  ground, 
to-day  suggested  to  me  the  expediency  of  doing  this  in  the 
establishment  of  the  contemplated  Seminary,  and  added,  that 
theological  controversy  when  conducted  without  acrimony  did  no 
harm  but  good.  He  said,  "Do  or  say  what  you  will,  such  an 
institution  will  be  considered  as  a  rival  to  Harvard — and  as  in- 
tended to  provide  for  the  ex-Professor,?  and  you  had  better  say 
so  at  once  and  you  will  be  more  likely  to  succeed."  I  should 
listen  to  such  suggestions  with  caution.  But  such  suggestions, 
from  the  quarter  whence  these  came,  indicate  a  crisis  before  us, 
for  which  we  ought  to  be  prepared.  We  have  a  powerful  com- 
bination to  oppose.  I  have  much  to  say  to  you  on  this  subject. 
We  must  do  all  we  can  through  the  Panoplist  to  enlighten  and 
wake  up  the  attention  of  the  public  to  these  things.  In  this 
view  Pastor  has  this  month  done  nobly.  I  have  read  him  in 
proof  with  singular  satisfaction.  He  rises  as  he  proceeds.  A 
few  such  numbers,  will  by  the  blessing  of  heaven  wake  up 
churches  to  do  their  duty.  I  hope  he  will  send  us  another  num- 
ber for  next  month,  in  the  same  eloquent  style.  He  has  hit  on 
a  subject  which  is  peculiarly  suited  to  the  design  of  the  Pano- 
plist, and  I  wish  him  to  give  it  his  first  attention.3 

1  Of  the  Seminary.  2  j)r.  Pearson. 

3  Dr.  Woods  wrote  under  the  signatures  of  Pastor  and  Constans.— EDITOB. 


APPENDIX.  463 

Do  write  Dr.  Emmons  and  press  the  idea  of  union  in  Associa- 
tion and  in  the  Theological  School.  I  wish  he  could  converse 
with  Dr.  Dwight  on  this  subject  and  know  how  much  he  desires 
such  a  union  as  indispensable  to  the  maintenance  of  evangelical 
truth  in  Massachusetts.  I  have  hope  that  if  such  a  union  can 
be  cordially  effected,  and  the  evangelical  strength  of  Massa- 
chusetts concentrated,  we  might  yet  bring  about  a  counter  revo- 
lution in  our  University,  through  the  instrumentality  of  the  Legis- 
lature, by  an  alteration  of  Charter,  and  a  new  Board  of  Overseers. 
Keep  this  idea  in  your  own  bosom.  It  occurred  to  my  own 
mind,  for  the  first  time  this  evening.  I  commit  it  to  you  first. 
Contemplate  it.  Mr.  Quincy  told  me  this  evening  that  the 
southern  papers  advertise  the  Panoplist  as  "published  by  the 
learned  Dr.  M.,  and  that  its  design  is  to  oppose  Jacobinism  and 
Arminianism  which  are  prevalent  in  the  New  England  Colleges." 
These  were  his  words  nearly.  I  have  not  seen  what  he  refers  to, 
but  shall  inquire  and  know  what  is  its  foundation. 

I  write  as  things  occur  in  haste  and  with  a  dull,  muddy  head. 
If  you  can  make  anything  of  what  I  have  written  I  shall  be  glad. 
Mrs.  M.  joins  me  in  cordial  love  to  you  and  Mrs.  Woods. 
Your  tenderly  affectionate  friend  and  brother, 

J.  MORSE. 

P.  S. — The  Panoplisl  rises  in  importance  every  day.  We  must 
proceed  with  Christian  dignity  and  magnanimity.  Let  us  constantly 
pray  that  its  editors  may  be  inspired  and  directed  by  the  "  wis- 
dom from  above,  which  is  first  pure  then  peaceable,"  etc.  How 
important  it  is  that  we  should  be  divested  of  all  sinister  and 
selfish  views  and  feelings,  and  aim  singly  and  constantly  to 
advance  God's  glory.  I  think  this  is  truly  my  desire.  Brother, 
pray  for  me  that  my  faith  and  strength  fail  not.  I  thank  my 
God  that  hitherto  my  courage  has  been  increased  in  proportion 
to  the  dangers  I  have  had  to  encounter.  I  desire  humbly  to 
rest  on  His  precious  promise — "I  will  not  leave  nor  forsake 
thee." 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBUBY,  Dec.  16,  1806. 

DEAR  SIR, — I  have  labored  to  introduce  Mavor's  universal  his- 
tory, in  thirty  volumes  I  think,  into  our  Library.  And  although 
there  is  not  more  than  about  half  the  sum  necessary  in  the 
treasury,  we  have  proceeded  so  far  in  the  business,  that  I  will 


464      HISTORY   OF    ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

take  it  of  you,  if  you  please,  as  one  of  the  books  which  shall 
come  into  our  settlement  at  the  end  of  the  year.  I  suppose  by 
your  proposal  to  Br.  Parish  last  year,  and  to  me  also,  this  plan 
will  be  agreeable  to  you.  I  think  you  have  more  than  one  set 
on  hand,  and  I  find  the  work  has  not  a  very  ready  sale.  I  shall 
wait  for  a  part  of  the  pay,  till  the  money  comes  into  the  Treas- 
urer's hands  from  taxes,  fines,  etc.,  from  the  owners  of  our 
Library.  If  you  like  the  proposal,  I  wish  the  books  to  be  sent 
by  the  bearer.  If  you  will  inform  him,  when  they  will  be  done 
up,  he  will  call  for  them.  Perhaps  he  will  wait  at  your  house 
till  they  are  ready.  Please  to  send  the  lowest  you  can  sell  them 
for.  I  should  not  mention  this,  were  I  not  in  connexion  with 
others,  who  may  ask,  whether  they  could  not  be  bought  at  a 
lower  price  of  some  other  person,  and  who  may  possibly  inquire 
of  booksellers  in  Newburyport. 

Subscribers  all  feel  displeased  with  the  lettering  of  Scott,  third 
volume.  It  is  done  awkwardly,  besides  being  different  from  the 
lettering  of  the  two  former  volumes.  Mr.  Woodward  ought  to 
be  at  the  expense  of  getting  it  altered. 

In  No.  12,  volume  first,  Eclectic  Review,  page  953,  there  is  a 
very  pretty  poem,  "The  Violet,"  for  the  PanopUst.  Though  it 
may  not  be  the  whole  of  the  poem,  it  is  good,  as  it  there  stands. 
It  will,  I  think,  be  best  to  quote  it  from  the  work  itself,  "  Original 
Poems,"  etc. 

The  anecdote  of  Dr.  Beattie,  page  955,  ditto,  respecting  the 
best  method  of  instructing  children,  is  one  of  the  best  in  the 
world  for  our  purpose,  I  wish  it  may  not  be  omitted.  I  wrote 
to  you  by  stage  yesterday,  enclosing  Mason  and  Beview.  I  expect 
you  will  receive  it  to-day,  Tuesday.  I  should  like  to  receive  No. 
19,  as  far  as  it  is  done.  Likewise  the  Observer  if  you  have  received 
it.  Accept  and  make  love. 

Yours  in  the  sincerest  affection  and  esteem, 

LEONARD  WOODS. 

P.  S. — If  you  have  disposed  of  Mavor's  history,  which  you 
offered  to  me,  can  you  immediately  get  another  for  me  in  the 
same  way,  so  as  be  agreeable  and  convenient  for  you  ? 

Please  to  send  me  Anthology,  containing  the  account  op 
Sherman's  society.  I  send  the  new  edition  of  Crito.  I  have  sent 
it  to  several  of  different  complexion,  who  approve  and  say,  it  is 
an  important  paper.  If  alterations  are  made,  or  proposed  by 
Dr.  P.,  I  shah1  wish  to  know  what  they  are  before  it  goes  to 
press.  If  you  please,  when  it  is  printed,  you  may  say  to  corre- 


APPENDIX.  465 

spondents,  that  the  Editors  introduce  this  as  friends  to  fair  dis- 
cussion, without  deciding  on  the  several  questions  which  are 
discussed.  Don't  let  the  printer  blunder  in  Greek  words. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBUET,  Jan.  17,  1807. 

DEAR  SIR, — My  not  receiving  a  letter  from  you  for  some  time 
is  a  matter  of  some  anxiety.  Sometimes  I  feel  apprehensive  that 
you  are  sick.  My  fear  is  strengthened  by  the  illness  of  which 
you  made  mention,  in  your  last  letter,  which  I  received  with  the 
books,  by  Deacon  Tenney;  though  I  hoped  from  his  account,  you 
were  then  comfortable,  at  least  convalescent.  Sometimes  I  fear 
that  the  letters  I  have  since  written,  have  miscarried.  I  sent 
one  single  letter,  and,  about  a  week  since,  several  papers  enclosed 
in  a  letter  by  stage.  I  still  hope  a  letter  is  on  the  way,  and  that 
I  shall  receive  it  the  first  of  the  week. 

I  am  finishing  the  last  number  on  Confessions.  It  will  at  the 
close  appear,  that  this  digression  has  a  near  relation  to  the  sub- 
ject of  the  Survey.  I  have  not  heard  from  Mr.  Thayer,  but  I 
expect  to  hear  daily.  Events  will  cast  light  on  the  affair  I  men- 
tioned of  Mr. . 

Mr.  Huntington,  I  hear  from  Deacon  Warren,  has  afforded 
you  much  help.  I  rejoice  to  hear  it.  You  ought  to  have  a 
colleague.  Perhaps  he  is  the  man.  Mr.  H.'s  acceptance,  I  learn 
from  the  same  source,  continues,  and  that  he  is  esteemed  a  very 
promising  candidate.  May  God  use  him  for  Zion's  good. 

The  anthology  library  and  reading  room  takes  fast  hold  on 
my  mind.  I  fear  it  is  the  organizing  of  anarchists.  They  mean 
to  get  up  by  the  steps  of  library  fame,  and  then  to  use  the  ad- 
vantages of  their  exaltation  against  the  truth.  I  fear  no  object 
is  so  dear  to  them,  as  the  prostration  of  Calvinistic  religion. 
'Tis  a  new  motive  to  the  friends  of  truth  to  unite.  We  cannot 
successfully  oppose  them  exactly  in  their  way.  We  must  adopt 
methods  which  they  are  afraid  of.  I  have  written  Mr.  Spring 
urging  the  anthology  affair,  as  an  argument  for  General  Associa- 
tion. 

Do  let  me  hear  from  you  soon.  We  are  in  health.  Accept, 
with  Mrs.  Morse,  and  Miss  B.  and  all  your  family  our  sincere 
affection,  and  our  wishes  for  your  health  and  prosperity. 

Remember  me  to  Mr.  Huntington  in  particular, 

LEONARD  WOODS. 


466       HISTORY  OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

From  Mr.  Spring  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBURYPORT,  Jan.  22,  1807. 

DEAR  BROTHER, — Pray  sir,  what  is  the  matter  ?  what !  have  you 
to  contend  with  your  Professors  and  all  the  great  ones  in  Bos- 
ton ?  etc.  Why  cannot  you  without  material  injury  depress  your 
mitre  a  little  and  take  the  high  advantage  of  a  chair  once  a  week 
in  the  chamber  of  orthodox  commerce.  Is  not  condescension  some- 
times the  height  of  exaltation  ?  But  alas,  you  cannot  yield — I 
hope  you  will  be  directed,  they  are  determined  to  crush  us  all.  I 
suppose  you  think  we  who  have  been  afraid  of  the  general  com- 
bination ought  now  to  lay  aside  our  fear  and  come  up  to  the 
mark  at  once.  Perhaps  so.  Please  to  write  me  and  let  me 
know  what  is  said  and  thought.  Mrs.  Spring  joins  me  in  the  best 
salutations  to  you  and  lady, 

From  your  friend  and  brother, 

S.  SPRING. 


From  Dr.  Morse  to  L.  Woods. 

CHARLESTOWN,  Jan.  27,  1807. 

DEAR  BROTHER, — I  have  had  a  letter  from  Brother  Spring,  and 
written  him  again,  concerning  the  expediency  of  General  Associa- 
tion. He  says,  "perhaps  so."  He  is  too  cautious  in  his  manner. 
He  wishes  to  know  what  is  doing  by  others,  without  communicat- 
ing what  are  his  own  sentiments  and  views.  I  should  be  better 
pleased  with  frankness.  I  dislike  everything  that  looks  like  sly- 
ness or  art  in  transactions  between  Christians.  We  are  united  in  one 
object,  let  us  then  freely  confer  on  the  best  means  of  obtaining  it. 

I  have  mentioned  the  subject  of  Theological  Academy,  to 
young  Salisbury,  and  Professor  Smith  of  Dartmouth  College,  both 
warmly  approve.  If  Mr.  Bartlett  would  found  a  Professorship 
and  name  his  Professor,  the  Institution  might  commence  next 
summer  with  two  if  not  three  Professors,  and  a  building  of  suffi- 
cient size  erected.  A  library  of  choice  books  has  been  sent  for, 
and  will  be  here  in  the  spring  or  summer.  Confer  with  Mr. 
Spring  to  whom  I  have  opened  the  subject,  and  let  me  know 
whether  he  intends  to  unite  with  or  oppose  us  in  this  Institution. 

It  will  assuredly  go  without  him,  but  I  would  rather  far  have 
union  in  this  and  in  General  Association.  The  consequences  of 
division  would  be  melancholy.  The  Panoplist  is  doing  good, 
and  growing  more  popular.  The  "Survey"  makes  much  talk. 
The  subject  of  Confessions  has  been  agitated  before  our  Associ- 
ation and  is  to  be  again.  The  Panoplist  was  quoted. 


APPENDIX.  467 

Mr.  Huntingfcon  continues  very  acceptable.  He  is  a  great 
help  to  me.  I  expect  another  young  candidate,  a  classmate  of 
his,  soon  to  lodge  at  Deacon  Warren's. 

Accept  for  Mrs.  W.  and  yourself  the  love  of  Mrs.  M.,  Miss  B., 
and  your  affectionate  friend  and  brother, 

J.    MORSE. 

p.  $ — Excuse  haste,  the  weather  is  extreme  and  everything 
freezes  around  me. 
» 
From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBUET,  Feb.  18,  1807. 

I  have  done  as  well  with  Luther  as  I  could.  It  has  been  my 
endeavor  to  pluck  up  the  roots  of  "the  old  man."  I  believe  I 
have  given  it  a  cast'  that  will  be  quite  inoffensive  at  least.  You 
see  my  note,  for  which  I  am  indebted  to  your  suggestion.  I  feel 
not  the  least  reluctance  at  giving  up  the  construction  for  which  I 
have  done  so  much.  I  hope  the  spirit  showed  in  the  affair  will 
be  some  advantage  to  the  cause  of  truth,  and  of  impartial  inquiry. 
It  is  shocking  to  see  men  engaged  to  defend  their  own  favorite 
notions,  regardless  of  the  arguments  which  others  urge,  intent 
only  upon  keeping  their  own  ground,  and  seeming  to  think  that 
yielding,  or  retracting  one  inch  would  be  an  unpardonable  sin. 
Where  is  truth?  Where  is  evidence?  Where  is  candid,  fair 
investigation  amid  such  blind  contention?  I  think  I  sincerely 
abhor  the  spirit  of  bigotry,  and  every  degree  of  an  uncandid, 
self-opinionated,  unyielding  temper,  whether  I  see  it  in  myself  or 
others.  I  know  I  have  much  of  it,  and  have  reason  to  watch,  and 
search,  and  pray.  An  opportunity  to  subdue  it,  and  to  act  against 
it,  ought  to  be  prized.  Forgive  this  digression.  It  is  my  wish 
that  Theophilus  may  follow  Luther.  My  note  will  refer  to  it,  and 
show  that  the  Editors  mean  to  stand  on  the  ground  of  fairness 
and  impartiality.  The  exception  made  in  the  note  to  the  first 
page  is  necessary  to  guard  against  treating  Hopkinsians  with 
injustice,  and  exciting  their  prejudices.  My  opinion  of  the  other 
pieces  you  will  see  at  the  close  or  beginning  of  each. 

For  a  week  I  have  been  unwell;  several  days  confined,  though 
not  sick.  I  was  threatened  with  a  fever;  but  am  convalescent. 

If  you  are  willing  to  part  with  Abbodie,  you  may  charge  it 
to  me.  It  is  excellent.  I  want  his  other  work  on  the  Christian 
religion. 


468       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

Feb.  19. 

What  you  have  prepared  on  the  subject  of  the  Theolog- 
ical Academy  I  expected  to  see.  It  was  crowded  out  by  many 
things.  I  must  have  it  before  I  begin  the  numbers  on  that  im- 
portant subje'ct.  If  you  can,  I  wish  you  to  do  the  whole,  and 
let  it  be  added  to  the  Survey,  or  otherwise  as  you  judge  best. 
Should  not  your  leisure  permit,  and  should  you  think  it  best,  that 
I  attempt  it,  let  me  have  all  you  have  written,  and  all  you  can 
think. 

I  must  beg  to  be  absent  next  month.  My  health  at  present 
will  not  permit  of  journeying,  and  I  shall  not  know  how  to  leave 
my  family  and  my  study.  Be  the  more  frequent  in  writing,  and 
send  any  thing  you  wish  me  to  attend  to. 

Feb.  22,  Sabbath  evening,  10  o'clock. 

I  have  just  heard  that  you  had  a  struggle  at  Milton,  and  did 
nobly,  "  steadfast  and  unmovable,"  though  opposed  by  a  mob  of 
disorganizes.  It  did  my  heart  good,  yea,  made  it  leap  for  joy, 
when  I  was  informed  how  you  contended  for  the  cause  of  Christ 
and  the  church. 

Hoping  soon  to  hear  from  you,  I  close.  'Tis  late  and  I  am 
exhausted.  I  was  able  to  preach  only  half  the  day.  With  sin- 
cerity yours, 

L.  WOODS. 

P.  S. — Remember  us  very  affectionately  to  Mrs.  Morse.  I  hope 
she  is  quite  restored  to  health,  and  that  you  both  have  the  happi- 
ness of  seeing  a  blooming,  promising  daughter. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

March  2,  1807. 

MY  BELOVED  SIR, — I  received  yours  of  28th  Saturday  night, 
together  with  Scott  and  Panoplist.  Your  letter  is  full  of  that 
which  ought  to  animate  me  to  duty,  and  certainly  something 
which  would  innate  my  vanity  did  I  not  know  and  feel  that  praise 
is  not  my  due.  My  conscience  strips  me  of  that  rich  dress  which 
partial  friendship  puts  upon  me.  But  my  conclusion  is,  that  I  do 
not  merit  the  favorable  opinion,  which  others  express  concerning  me; 
I  will  make  their  friendship  a  new  motive  to  pious  exertion,  that  so  I 
may  not  wholly  disappoint  them.  But  I  cannot  help  saying  that 
your  approbation,  and  the  esteem  of  others  connected  with  us  in 
the  Panoplist  are  among  my  dearest  earthly  pleasures.  I  bless 
God  that  he  introduced  me  to  an  acquaintance  with  you  and  has 
given  me  such  a  place  in  your  kind  regards. 


APPENDIX.  469 

I  hear  with  pleasure  of  Mrs.  Morse's  health  and  that  of  the 
babe.  May  it  be  a  child  of  the  covenant,  and  the  joy  of  its 
parents  even  to  old  age,  and  a  blessing  to  many.  I  am  not 
without  concern  for  your  health,  fear  you  will  receive  injury 
from  the  course  of  the  weather,  and  that  the  opening  of  the 
Spring  will  find  you  afflicted  with  your  old  bilious  complaint. 
But  God  knows  what  He  has  for  you  to  do,  and  will  give  you 
strength  and  opportunity  accordingly. 

My  health  is  considerably  restored.  The  last  two  Sabbaths,  I 
preached  half  the  day.  My  family  are  all  comfortable  again, 
though  we  have  been  quite  afflicted.  As  to  General  Association 
which  is  my  subject  at  present,  I  am  not  surprised  at  the  objec- 
tions of  Dr.  L .  I  have  for  many  years  known  that  he  is 

afraid  of  taking  any  measures  to  give  offence,  and  does  not  feel 
happy  to  be  intimately  connected  with  thorough  Calvinists.  In 
Connecticut  he  is  not  regarded  as  a  very  ardent  friend  of  revivals 
of  religion.  I  esteem  him  highly  for  his  talents,  and  his  char- 
acter as  a  divine,  and  generally  I  think  him  orthodox.  But 
I  cannot  have  such  confidence  in  his  opinion  as  to  give  up  the 
project  of  General  Association.  His  objections  had  in  part  oc- 
curred to  my  own  mind,  and  I  had  noted  them  as  objections  to  be 
answered.  But  I  am  very  glad  to  have  the  argument  so  well 
displayed  in  the  quotation  you  take  from  his  letter.  His  opinion 
of  the  Survey  deserves  notice.  We  are  apt  to  lose  sight  of  facts 
in  such  compositions,  and  to  give  our  own  fancies.  I  have  been 
reviewing  Pastor  with  this  point  before  me.  He  generally  ex- 
presses his  views  of  prevailing  evils  so  as  to  imply  limitation. 
"  Some  churches,"  "  many  churches,"  "  generally,"  "  commonly,"  etc. 
Sometimes  he  mentions  "many  pleasing  exceptions."  In  one  or 
two  places,  I  think  it  needs  a  little  correction.  But  I  much 
doubt  whether  serious  ministers,  acquainted  with  the  state  of 
things  in  New  England,  have  commonly  felt  the  difficulty  which 
Dr.  L.  has  felt.  I  am  sure  neither  you  nor  I  can  say,  "  I  have 
never  known  that  laxity  in  churches,  and  in  ordaining  councils 
which  Pastor  complains  of."  I  am  willing  Dr.  L.  should  retain 
his  opinions  on  the  disputed  passages.  Perhaps  in  some  of  them 
he  is  right.  But  I  am  confident  in  some  of  them  he  is  wrong. 

On  the  subject  of  Theological  Academy  it  will  be  a  great  relief 
to  me  if  you  and  Dr.  P.  will  undertake  to  prepare  the  numbers. 
I  feel  much  interested  in  the  subject,  and  long  to  see  the  manu- 
script you  sent  to  Dr.  L.  Much  may  be  done  to  prepare  the 
public  mind  to  favor  and  support  the  Institution  by  accurate  ac- 
counts of  the  circumstances  of  the  times  as  to  Theological  Stu- 


470       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

dents,  by  representing  the  importance  of  knowledge  in  ministers, 
and  of  regular,  well-directed,  long-continued  study,  in  order  to 
obtain  it,  and  by  showing  what  urgent  need  there  is  for  an  Insti- 
tution to  furnish  young  men  for  the  ministry.  I  have  thought 
that  something  might  be  introduced  in  connection  with  the  Acad- 
emy, exhibiting  a  general  and  somewhat  particular  plan  of  study  in 
order  to  the  ministry,  so  that  it  might  be  seen  what  is  to  be  done 
for  young  students.  But  this  is  probably  comprised  in  your  man- 
uscripts. I  hope  this  week  to  see  Mr.  Spring,  and  know  whether 
he  has  mentioned  the  matter  to  Messrs.  Bartlett  and  Brown.  Let 
me  know  next  letter  whether  you  can  let  me  have  Rees.  I  am 
astonished  to  see  the  length  of  Pastor.  He  shall  do  so  no  more. 

March  10. 

Hoping  for  an  opportunity  to  send  by  Deacon  Tenney,  I  en- 
close what  I  have  done;  he  will  take  anything  left  at  the  toll- 
house, where  he  will  inquire.  I  have  made  short  work  of  the 
objections  to  General  Association.  I  thought  it  best  to  give 
notice  of  the  next  meeting.  I  have  a  desire  to  attend  a  little 
further  to  Luther,  but  will  send  it  in  the  course  of  the  week,  as 
it  is  high  time  to  publish  it  if  ever.  I  will  send  Philologus  too. 

Yours, 

L.  WOODS. 

P.  S. — Mr.  Austin  writes  me  in  earnest  in  favor  of  General  As- 
sociation. Mr.  Spring  will  co-operate.  He  has  been  several  times 
to  see  Mr.  Bartlett,  but  not  having  opportunity  to  talk,  will  go 
again  soon.  He  thinks  it  will  be  well  for  several  of  us  to  write 
him  respectful  letters,  letting  him  know  that  our  eyes  are  upon 
him.  But  he  will  have  a  talk  first. 

From  S.  Spring  to  L.   Woods. 

NEWBTTRYPOET,  April  1,  1807. 

DEAR  BROTHER, — I  rejoice  in  your  tribulation,  yet  I  sympathize 
with  you  relative  to,  your  dilemma;  but  let  us  not  despond. 
"  They  who  are  for  us,  are  more  than  they  who  are  against  us." 
The  Lord  of  hosts,  the  God  of  Jacob,  I  confidently  believe  is  our 
director  in  this  vast  business.  Let  us  trust  in  the  Lord  and  he 
will  give  us  light  and  energy.  We  will  not  fear  the  influence 
of  man. 

I  have  labored  at  the  Constitution  and  read  it  to  Mr.  Brown. 
He  understands  it  and  approves.  The  triumvirate  devote  $30,000 


APPENDIX.  471 

to  a  Theological  Academy.  They  have  a  right  to  remain  the  sole 
directors  and  to  elect  their  successors.  But  they  are  modest  men 
and  choose  with  their  eyes  open,  eight  other  faithful  orthodox  men 
to  co-operate  with  them  in  the  wisest  appropriation  of  their  fund. 
They  also  frame  the  Constitution  and  make  regulations,  by  which 
they  and  the  Directors  of  their  own  choice  shall  be  governed,  and 
by  which  the  present  Board  shall  supply  any  vacancy  and  manage 
the  interests  of  the  Institution  for  the  future.  Now  what  need 
of  any  check  except  the  check  of  conscience  ?  For  God  will  not 
suffer  the  Donors,  if  they  keep  at  home  and  don't  go  to  Andover 
to  elect  an  inadequate  Board.  Nor  will  God  permit  the  present 
Directors  who  shall  outlive  Moses  and  William  and  John,  to  sup- 
ply their  places  with  dissimilar  men.  Hence  the  eye  of  faith 
looks  forward  a  long  stretch  and  sees  a  long  succession  of  faithful 
preceptors  and  Directors,  without  any  check  except  orthodox 
heads  and  good  hearts.  Mr.  B.  says  he  should  fear  to  constitute 
any  of  his  heirs  as  checks,  lest  they  should  covet  the  $10,000  and 
pick  a  quarrel  with  the  Directors.  The  end  of  the  matter  is  bet- 
ter than  the  beginning  if  properly  managed  and  directed.  So  it 
will  prove  with  our  Academy  if  we  wisely  and  prayerfully  give  it 
a  correct  outset.  I  hold,  you  see,  to  the  uninterrupted  succession 
of  correct  preceptors  and  Directors  if  WE  begin  the  series.  At  any 
rate,  I  fully  believe  if  we  wisely  give  the  academic  ark  a  proper 
direction,  that  it  will  continue  long  enough  to  justify  us  in  hold- 
ing fast  the  inestimable  price  now  put  into  our  hands.  But  alas, 
what  will  become  of  the  Academy  if  we  connect  ourselves  with 
men  who  think  differently  relative  to  the  method  of  doing  good, 
and  will  justify  themselves  in  contracting  our  influence  as  soon 
as  they  possibly  can  without  embarrassing  themselves  ?  Surely 
they  don't  wish  us  to  make  a  junction  for  the  sake  of  increasing 
the  Hopkinsiau  interest.  They  are  not  so  disinterested  as  ALL 
this.  No;  they  are  not  afraid  we  shall  lose  influence  by  our  Insti- 
tution; but  they  desire  the  coalition  to  help  themselves.  I  am 
willing  to  admit  that  they  believe  we  shall  lose  nothing  by  the 
connection,  at  least  in  the  outset.  But  for  God's  sake,  do  we  not 
know,  that  we  can  make  more  uniform  ministers  in  a  solitary 
state,  than  we  can  under  many  restrictions  and  embarrassments 
which  will  be  inseparable  from  the  coalition.  Have  we  the  least 
reason  to  expect  success  among  those  who  will  not  give  up  the 
half-way  covenant,  and  are  forever  pleading  for  the  duty  which 
pertains  to  the  BEST  actions  of  sinners.  We  cannot  part  with  the 
advantages  of  our  Academy  for  any  prospect  which  presents  from 
the  union  proposed. 


472      'HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

Our  Constitution  we  must  have  at  Andover  independently  of 
them;  or,  a  separate  trust  collected  from  Andover,  making  half 
the  united  trust  provided  by  OUR  Constitution,  MUST  be  the  condi- 
tion of  the  connection,  or  we  cannot  with  safety  remove  to  An- 
dover, nor  even  then;  for  we  can't  before  the  millennium  govern 
them  any  more  than  we  can  the  EMPEROR..  And  they  must  not 

govern.     The  heavenly  gold  put  into  our  hands  must  not 

alloy.  We  can  mutually  benefit  each  other  apart — more  effectu- 
ally than  we  can  by  any  academic  junction.  It  is  weak,  it  is  child- 
ish, it  is  selfish  to  have  the  thought  that  the  two  Institutions  must 
be  hostile  to  each  other.  I  shall  pity  as  well  as  blame  them,  if 
they  are  offended  with  us  because  we  choose  to  be  good  neighbors, 
rather  than  to  live  in  the  same  house  where  we  cannot  do  our 
business  in  the  best  manner.  We  can  live  in  peace  at  Newbury, 
but  at  Andover  we  cannot,  at  the  present  day,  unless  we  relinquish 
our  darling  object  in  Theology.  For  they  have  no  thought  of 
being  converted  now. 

In  a  word,  it  is  hysterical  to  indulge  the  idea  that  we  shall  be 
too  deficient  in  point  of  erudition  and  theological  skill  to  make  the 
Newbury  Academy  reputable  and  even  splendid.  Only,  Brother 
Leonard,  spend  as  much  time  in  the  appropriate  studies  of  divinity 
for  the  Academy  this  year,  as  you  have  the  last  for  the  Panoplist, 
and  you  will  feel  very  differently.  If  we  any  of  us  hanker  to  be 
under  Andover  authority,  let  us  read  with  attention  Samuel's 
address  to  Israel  when  they  wanted  a  king.  If  we  must  be  hewers 
of  wood  and  drawers  of  water,  let  us  do  the  work  at  home. 

Give  and  take  love, 

S.  SPRING. 

P.  S. — Thursday  morning. 

DEAR  BROTHER,— After  mature  deliberation  and  reflection,  it 
is  my  judgment  that  you  must  let  the  Donors  know  by  a  line  to 
me,  whether  you  prefer  being  connected,  as  proposed,  with  our 
Academy,  as  first  expected;  for  you  are  sensible  that  at  the  outset, 
we  went  on  the  ground  of  this  expectation,  to  say  the  least.  Are 
you  willing  that  by  your  standing  still,  as  you  express  it,  we  must 
lose  our  inestimable  object  V  We  must  know  your  preference  in 
this  attitude  of  things.  Consult  Dea.  Osgood,  L.,  M.,  N.  For 
if  you  now  prefer,  all  things  considered,  either  the  coalition  or 
the  Seminary  before  the  Newbury  Academy,  we  must  make  new 
arrangements,  which  will  however  be  attended  with  less  ad- 
vantages than  the  first.  I  am  more  and  more  confident  that 
with  Dr.  P.,  A.  B.  and  C.,  etc.,  we  cannot  live  at  Andover. 


APPENDIX.  473 

God  direct  you  to  be  decided  soon.  The  object  magnifies  every 
moment — delays  they  want,  but  delays  are  dangerous.  We  will 
be  consistent,  but  fixed  as  Atlas. — Last  words — my  having  been 
in  some  measure  the  instrument  to  bring  forward  this  precious 
object  (I  hope  I  can  say)  rather  astonishes  me  than  elates  me. 
At  any  rate  my  responsibility  is  so  great,  that  I  cannot  willingly 
yield  the  lovely  prospect  of  advantage  which  for  many  years  has 
been  ardently  contemplated,  for  the  best  prospect  which  Andover 
can  make  in  present  circumstances. 

From  Dr.  Pearson  to  Dr.  Morse. 

ANDOVSB,  FAST  EVENING,  lOs  o'cIoL-L:, 

April  2,  1807. 

DEAR  SIR, — I  passed  Monday  night  and  until  11  next  morning 
with  Mr.  Woods.  The  conversation  was  free  and  in  a  great  part 
confidential.  As  I  am  unwell,  and  it  is  now  late,  I  can  only  give 
you  the  outlines  and  result.  I  found  that  on  Monday,  having  be- 
fore made  up  his  mind,  he  communicated  to  Mr.  Spring,  with 
liberty  to  inform  the  other  gentlemen,  his  determination  to  close 
with  their  propositions  for  a  distinct  Institution.  Notwithstanding 

this,    I   found   that  his  resolution  was   shaken  by  Mr.   P h, 

who  was  with  him  at  the  time  of  my  arrival;  and  in  this  way  he 
was  Providentially  prepared  for  a  free  and  full  conversation  on 
the  subject.  The  interview,  I  trust,  had  a  mutual  good  effect,  as  it 
increased  our  personal  interest  in  each  other,  and  gave  oppor- 
tunity to  explain  our  object,  motives,  principles,  views  and  wishes 
— to  state  difficulties,  objections,  etc., — to  correct  misapprehensions 
and  errors — and  as  I  hope,  to  relieve,  if  not  remove,  fears  and 
jealousies,  of  which  I  discovered  more  than  are  founded.  Union, 
if  practicable,  still  appeared  to  him  desirable.  Many  questions  were 
asked  and  answered,  some  proposals  suggested,  by  way  of  query, 
which  could  not  be  answered — most  positive  assurance  given  that 

Mr.  S g  was  satisfied  with  Catechism  ground;  but  fears  were 

expressed  that  our  Board  did  not  reach  that  mark — this  gave  me 
lively  hope,  that  a  full  eclaircissement  on  this  point,  as  well  as  on 

some  Others,  might  be  particularly  useful.     Mr.   S indeed 

himself  suggested  another  conference  in  which  he  proposed  that 
three  or  four  on  our  part  should  be  present.  Such  a  conference 
I  deem  of  the  first  importance;  but  it  was  not  in  our  power  to 
appoint  one.  I  was  however  the  bearer  of  a  letter  from  Mr. 

W to  Mr.  S in  which  the  former  requests  the  latter  to 

suspend  the  communication  of  his  aforesaid  determination,  till 


474      HISTORY   OF   ANDOYER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

they  can  have  a  personal  interview,  which  is  to  be  on  Saturday,  p.  M., 
or  on  Sabbath  eve,  the  result  of  which,  with  relation  to  conference, 
he  is  to  give  you  by  stage-men  on  Monday;  with  which  please  to 
acquaint  me,  should  I  not  be  able,  according  to  my  intention,  to 
see  you  at  Charlestown  at  that  time.  On  this  important  occasion 

Mr.   W hopes  you  will  be  willing  to  defer  your  journey  a 

week  if  necessary.     I  further  learn  that  Mr.  S g  has  obtained 

another  equal  co-founder  among  his  people,  so  that  they  feel  them- 
selves on  high  ground;  and  should  we  fail  with  respect  to  Mr. 

P ,  and  have  nothing  to  match  them  but  an  empty  building 

and  a  subscription  paper  they  will  dictate  their  own  terms.  Col. 
P.  expects  to  be  at  Boston  to-morrow,  and  by  him  you  will  re- 
ceive this.  I  have  been  disappointed  in  not  seeing  him  this  even- 
ing, which  makes  it  more  necessary  for  you  to  spend  some  time 
with  him.  You  may  make  what  use  of  this  communication,  you 
may  think  proper,  with  him.  Something  must  be  done  immedi- 
ately; we  have  been  too  dilatory  thus  far.  I  am  impatient  for  the 
issue  of  Col.  P.'s  application.  May  heaven  succeed  his  efforts. 
I  purpose  to  have  a  subscription  paper  ready  on  his  return. 
Where  shall  we  find  the  requisite  characters  to  take  charge  of  it  ? 
On  the  whole,  I  am  not  discouraged,  even  with  respect  to  Union. 
I  trust  my  visit  has  been  of  some  use  to  correct  errors,  remove 
doubt  and  misapprehensions;  and  I  have  strong  hope,  not  to  say 
confidence,  that,  if  the  parties  could,  by  conference  and  in  other 
ways  less  formal,  become  fully  acquainted  with  each  other,  the 
happiest  consequences  would  be  the  result.  In  a  cause  so  impor- 
tant, to  the  present,  and  all  future  generations,  let  us  not  despair ; 
nor  leave  any  string  untouched  that  may  be  necessary  to  the  pro- 
motion of  harmony.  Let  us  hope  all  things,  and  endure  all  things, 
if  by  any  means  we  may  be  instrumental  of  building  up  the  church 
of  Christ  in  faith  and  holiness. 

Yours  most  affectionately, 

E.  PEARSON. 

From  Dr.  Spring  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBUBYPOBT,   April  4,  1807. 

DEAR  BROTHER, — Not  ascertaining  when  you  expected  to  leave 
home  to  go  on  to  New  York,  while  you  were  with  us,  I  wrote  to 
you  while  you  were  at  Byfield  for  information.  I  have  received  no 
answer  and  know  not  that  you  had  my  letter.  This  therefore 
requests  that  needful  information.  For  our  conference  which 
you  have  desired  particularly,  must,  if  possible,  take  place  before 


APPENDIX.  475 

you  leave  home.  I  have  strong  reason  [to  wish]  for  information, 
and  hope  you  will  by  the  first  stage  let  me  have  it.  I  have  not 
seen  the  Donors  since  you  were  here,  at  least  not  both  of  them. 
As  to  the  coalition,  I  have  little  or  no  expectation  that  we  can 
agree  on  terms  to  effect  more  than  a  treaty  of  friendship  between 
the  Seminary  and  the  Academy.  This  we  must  have,  and  more 
than  this  will  not  probably  be  advantageous,  ah1  things  considered; 
but  I  hope  we  shall  be  rightly  assisted  to  the  best  measures. 
The  object,  either  separately  or  jointly  considered,  is  great  beyond 
any  subordinate  one  we  have  embraced. 
With  due  consideration  to  you  and  lady, 

I  am  your  friend  and  humble  servant, 

S.  SPUING. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBUBT,  April  5,  1807,  Sabbath  eve.  8  o'clock. 

REV.  AND  BELOVED  SIR, — Your  letter  excites  a  train  of  emotions 
which  I  cannot  describe.  My  intimate  and  happy  friendship  with 
you  for  two  years  has  given  me  abundant  proof  of  the  sincerity, 
the  candor,  and  the  tender  piety  of  your  heart.  I  know  how  you 
feel.  Your  soul  is  wounded  with  the  divisions  which  appear  among 
Christians  and  ministers.  You  pant  for  union  and  love.  It  is  your 
favorite  cause.  You  plead  for  it  with  God,  and  with  his  people. 
But  your  heart  bleeds  that  so  little  can  be  done.  Your  bleeding 
heart,  dear  Sir,  makes  mine  bleed.  Your  letter  has  given  Mrs. 
Woods  and  me  many  sighs  and  tears.  Oh,  that  I  could  say  any- 
thing to  afford  consolation  on  the  great  subject.  I  have  written 
several  times  to  Mr.  Spring;  have  let  him  know  how  sincerely  and 
ardently  I  desire  union,  and  the  reasons  for  it  in  my  mind.  The 
distinct  Institution  here  is  as  much  his  object,  as  the  union  scheme 
is  yours.  My  mind  has  been  in  the  utmost  perplexity  and  distress 
most  of  the  week.  Some  views  of  the  subject  are  animating; 
many  views  of  it  excite  anxious  feelings;  and  many,  very  many, 
humble  me.  I  have  earnestly  desired  to  know  how  the  great 
Head  of  the  church,  views  the  whole  affair,  and  what  He  chooses. 
I  have  thought  that  would  settle  my  mind  at  once. 

My  apprehensions  as  to  the  issue  of  a  conference  at  Newbury- 
port  you  knew.  They  were  so  strong,  that  I  was  not  very  fond 
of  its  taking  place.  I  hope  your  candid  heart,  will  put  as  favor- 
able construction,  as  may  be,  on  the  views  and  feelings  of  Mr.  S. 
and  others.  He  is  in  my  estimation  a  very  good  and  useful  man, 
and  much  engaged  to  do  good  in  that  way  which  he  judges  to  be 


476       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

the  most  promising.  Perhaps  your  remarks  as  to  the  influence 
of  Hopkinsian  principles,  are  not  the  result  of  your  maturest  re- 
flections. If  some  who  embrace  those  principles,  and  are  able 
advocates  for  them,  should  have  "narrow  and  selfish  feelings,"  it 
cannot  be  hence  inferred  that  the  real  tendency  of  those  princi- 
ples is  bad,  for  it  is  nothing  strange  for  men  to  act  and  feel 
contrary  to  their  principles.  Deists  argue  against  Christian  prin- 
ciples, from  the  immoralities  of  Christians.  But  the  arguing  has 

been  abundantly  confuted. — It  is  possible,  after  all,  that  Mr.  S 's 

views  are  not  so  thoroughly  understood  as  you  imagine,  and  that 
his  feelings,  well  examined,  would  not  appear  "  narrow  and  selfish." 
His  treatment  of  the  subject,  I  knew  must  be  very  wounding  to 
you.  He  did  not  act,  however,  from  want  of  any  personal  regard 
to  you.  His  fears  chiefly  respected  others,  with  whom  you  are 
connected  at  Andover. 

As  to  the  expediency  of  another  conference,  you  will  judge. 
I  wish  not  to  see  you  come  in  the  character  of  a  suppliant.  Your 
object  is  excellent  and  noble,  worthy  of  a  minister  of  peace.  I 
heartily  wish  you  success,  if  your  success  in  this  particular  case  be 
consistent  with  the  high  object  you  are  pursuing.  My  meaning 
is,  that  friendship  and  union,  in  certain  cases  may  be  most  suc- 
cessfully promoted  at  a  convenient  distance.  I  have  felt  the 
delicacy  of  my  situation,  and  have  not  seen  the  propriety  of  my 
expressing  a  decision  one  way  or  the  other.  I  have  not  been 
willing,  without  seeing  myself  Providentially  called  to  do  it,  to 
take  upon  me  the  responsibility  of  a  direct  determination.  If  I 
felt  it  to  be  my  duty  I  would  not  value  any  personal  sacrifices. 
I  have  another  question  to  decide,  which  is  enough  for  me ;  that 
is,  whether  it  is  suitable  for  me  to  engage  in  such  a  great  and 
arduous  work  as  that  to  which  I  am  invited.  This  question  has 
cost  me  much  thought  and  much  solicitude.  I  am  not  without 
serious  fears,  that  your  confidence  and  that  of  others  in  me  is 
misplaced.  I  pray  that  God  would  fit  me  for  the  work  which  he 
designs  for  me.  This  brings  into  view  another  most  affecting 
subject.  The  Panoplist  has  been  exceedingly  dear  to  my  heart. 
I  hesitated  and  trembled,  before  I  engaged  in  it.  But  since  I 
decided  in  its  favor,  which  I  did  at  the  hazard  of  losing  many 
friends,  it  has  been  my  darling  object.  Nothing  in  my  power  has 
been  withheld.  I  have  found  labor  delightful  because  the  object 
was  so  great  and  noble ;  and  the  prospect  of  usefulness  so  encour- 
aging. But  what  can  I  do  in  this  trying  situation  ?  I  would  ask 
you,  as  a  father,  to  advise  me.  To  think  of  leaving  the  Panoplist, 
gives  me  heartfelt  grief.  I  have  anticipated  another  year's  con- 


APPENDIX.  477 

nection  with  you  with  sensible  pleasure.  Your  generosity,  your 
condescension,  your  candor,  and  Christian  piety  have  gained  my 
esteem,  my  love,  and  my  confidence.  But  what  can  I  do?  I 
should  violate  my  own  maxims,  yea,  my  conscience,  if  I  should 
engage,  without  a  rational  prospect  of  being  able  to  do  the  work 
faithfully,  and  to  answer  your  expectations.  But  how  can  I  do 
this,  when  I  have  another  great  object  before  me,  which  swallows 
up  my  thoughts,  and  which  requires,  unless  I  relinquish  it,  that 
I  should  devote  myself  to  those  studies  which  are  immediately  pre- 
paratory to  it.  I  cannot  read  jour  expression  without  the 
tenderest  sensations — "you  must  not  leave  me  without  timely 
notice."  I  have  said  enough  to  show  you  the  state  of  my  mind 
at  present.  I  shall  doubtless  write  again  and  again  before  your 
journey.  Please  to  inform  me  when  it  shall  be. 

I  thank  you  with  all  my  heart,  for  the  wish  you  express,  that 
our  personal  friendship  may  be  preserved  unimpaired.  It  is  one 
of  my  dearest  wishes  and  hopes.  May  God  prevent  anything 
which  would  interrupt  that  intimacy,  which  has  been  to  me  so 
pleasing  and  so  profitable.  I  am  confident  you  will  put  a  most 
candid  construction  upon  whatever  I  do.  I  beg  you  to  remem- 
ber me  before  God.  My  views  and  feelings,  I  shall  unfold  to 
you  with  the  greatest  freedom  in  every  stage  of  the  present 
business. 

NEWBUBTPOBT,  Monday. 

DEAR  SIR, — I  see  not  any  comforting  prospect  of  union.  I 
would  not  object  to  the  proposed  conference.  But  I  confess,  I 
am  doubtful  as  to  the  expedience  of  it.  If  it  should  prove  abor- 
tive, evils  might  ensue.  Judge  and  act,  as  you  think  best.  Mr. 
Sp.  has  not  yet  heard  from  Mr.  Norris. 

Yours  in  sincerity, 

L.  WOODS. 

From  Dr.  Spring  to  Mr.  Norris. 

NEWBUKYPOKT,  April  7,  1807. 

DEAR  SIR, — I  suppose  the  want  of  health  and  the  uncomfortable 
weather,  have  prevented  your  informing  me,  when  we  may  expect 
you  at  Newburyport.  A  line  from  you  giving  your  decided  judg- 
ment relative  to  a,  junction  with  Andover  Academy,  is  wished  very 
much.  For  my  own  part,  I  cannot  contemplate  the  coalition,  but 
at  the  expense  of  our  most  precious  object.  Both  my  desires 
and  conscience  say  no,  by  no  means  make  a  junction.  I  am 


478       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

afraid  of  the  A.  hug,  though  I  will  not  compare  it  with  the 
F.  hug,  except  with  some  qualifications.  They  desire  the 
combination,  not  because  they  desire  to  promote  the  interest  or 
the  influence  of  Hopkinsians.  At  least  this  is  my  impression. 
But  I  know  that  my  charity  is  apt  to  fail.  Please  to  write  me 
soon  whether  you  are  yet  able  or  not  to  mention,  when  you  expect 
to  be  at  Newburyport.  By  the  liberty  of  Messrs  B.  and  B.  I 
have  opened  the  glorious  object  to  Mr.  Pettingel.  He  likes  it. 
He  says  he  will  converse  with  Mr.  B.  and  B.  I  think  he  will 
generously  embrace  the  business.  The  silver  and  the  gold 
and  the  banks  and  the  bills  too  are  the  Lord's.  If  we  commit 
the  matter  into  God's  hand,  his  patronage  will  be  sufficient. 
Our  best  respects  you  will  please  to  accept  and  make  accept- 
able to  your  Lady.  From  your  friend  and  humble  servant, 

S.  SPRING. 

From  Mr.  Norris  to  Dr.  Spring. 

SALEM,  April  8,  1807. 

EEV.  AND  DEAR  SIR, — Your  esteemed  favor  of  the  7th  insi  is 
just  received  and  the  contents  duly  noted. 

I  wrote  you  on  Monday,  the  6th,  in  answer  to  yours  of  the 
31st  ult.  which  did  not  come  to  hand  till  Saturday  afternoon, 
the  4th  inst.  The  great  and  good  object  we  contemplate,  and  for 
the  success  and  welfare  of  which  we  are  concerned,  I  expressed 
in  my  letter  to  you  of  the  6th,  which  I  hope  you  have  received, 
therefore  at  present  shall  be  silent  till  by  Divine  leave,  we  have 
the  pleasure  of  a  personal  interview,  which  hope  will  be  on  Mon- 
day next.  Accept  our  love  and  respects  for  yourself  and  dear 
family  and  believe  us  to  be  yours  sincerely. 

•J.  NORRIS. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBURYPORT,  April  10,  1807. 

DEAREST  SIR, — I  can  write  only  a  minute.  I  sent  you  a  letter 
Monday,  which  I  suppose  you  received,  enclosing  twenty-four  dol- 
lars. I  now  write  to  tell  you,  that  I  have  made  up  my  mindfully 
to  use  ALL  my  influence,  to  venture  ALL  my  efforts  in  favor  of  union. 
And  excuse  me  if  I  say,  I  think  I  can  do  more  than  all  the  "  con- 
ferences "  in  the  world,  both  with  Mr.  S.  and  the  gentlemen.  You 
may,  I  think,  have  some  comfort.  You  and  yours  must  help  me 
all  you  can  in  obtaining  arrangements  agreeable  to  these  Donors. 
If  they  are  pleased,  they  will,  I  doubt  not,  in  ten  years,  do  enough 


APPENDIX.  479 

to  endow  a  college.  Say  not  a  word  from  me.  My  situation  is 
very  delicate.  Let  me  not  be  exposed  for  what  I  feel  to  be  im- 
propriety. I  am  urged  on  by  a  sense  of  duty.  My  mind  this 
week  has  been  almost  ready  to  sink.  Remember  me.  Write 
soon.  You  shall  hear  again  from  me.  I  have  been  grieved  at 
my  last  letter. 

Yours,  etc., 

L.  WOODS. 

P.  S. — Mr.  Bartlett  is  pleased  with  you.  Only  please  him,  and 
his  money  is  ready  for  the  object  which  has  taken  his  heart. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBUKT,  April  14,  1807. 

MY  DEAR  SIR, — Your  letter  of  yesterday  came  to  hand  this 
night.  It  is  in  vain  to  attempt  a  description  of  the  emotions 
which  it  excites.  I  am  astonished  at  what  God  is  doing.  I  am 
afraid  to  believe  that  I  have  the  influence  which  is  attributed  to 
me.  I  have  often  begged  that  I  might  have  no  more  than  I  should 
use  for  the  Redeemer's  glory.  Amazement  seizes  me  when  I  con- 
template the  views  of  my  friends  respecting  me.  When  I  read 
your  letter,  I  could  have  wept  with  the  wish  that  I  might  deserve 
your  affection,  and  from  a  sense  that  I  do  not.  Your  observations 
as  to  the  motions  of  Providence  are  affecting  and  animating.  From 
the  beginning  to  the  end  of  this  business,  indeed  from  the  begin- 
ning of  life  to  this  moment,  we  may  devoutly  recognise  the  hand 
of  an  all-wise,  all-gracious  Providence.  When  I  see  you  I  can  let 
you  know  how  strangely  my  mind  has  operated,  and  how  I  have 
been  compelled,  inwardly,  to  do  what  I  have  done.  But  now  as 
matters  are  set  out,  I  shah1  return  to  my  old  plan  of  being  silent 
and  leaving  the  arrangements  to  those  who  are  called  to  be  active. 
But  I  will  withhold  no  effort  that  shall  appear  necessary  and  proper. 
I  long  to  know  the  end  of  your  expected  interview  to-morrow. 
Don't  fail  to  write  to  me  by  Mr.  S.  Let  me  know  how  matters 
are  left  for  Panoplist. 

Dr.  Pearson's  visit  to  me  was  very  agreeable  and  satisfactory. 
I  did  not  expect  to  feel  such  freedom.  I  retained  the  feelings  I 
had  at  College  towards  him,  which  were  highly  respectful  and 
rather  attended  with  awe.  But  that  has  given  way  to  more  easy 
and  cordial  sensations. 

Your  motion  to  defer  the  question  about  Panoplist  till  the  ulti- 


480       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

mate  direction  is  given  to  the  great  affair  now  under  consideration, 
is  perfectly  what  I  had  thought  of. 

If  I  have  no  time  in  the  morning  to  write  more,  I  will  now 
take  a  kind  of  leave.  The  thought  of  your  long  absence  makes 
me  very  gloomy.  May  God  go  with  you,  and  render  the  journey 
conducive  to  your  health  and  that  of  your  amiable  partner,  and 
also  conducive  to  the  great  object  for  which  we  ought  always  to 
live  and  act.  I  esteem  your  life  precious  to  truth  and  to  love.  I 
will  write  to  you  as  often  as  anything  occurs  that  will  be  partic- 
ularly interesting.  Shall  wish  much  to  hear  from  you  in  the  sev- 
eral stages  of  your  journey.  Hope  you  will  not  overdo.  Let  it 
be  a  diversion,  and  come  back  with  a  new  stock  of  health,  of  in- 
formation, and  of  useful  energies. 

Very  late  at  night. 

Yours  truly, 

L.  WOODS. 

From  Dr.  Morse  to  L.  Woods. 

CHARLESTOWN,  April  16,  1807. 

MY  DEAE  SIK, — I  received  yours  of  yesterday.  I  answer 
hastily  by  Brother  Spring.  He  arrived  yesterday  p.  M.  and  with 
Dr.  Pearson  has  been  here  till  six  o'clock  this  morning.  It  was 
between  one  and  two  o'clock  last  night  before  we  retired.  You 
can  easily  suppose  that  we  have  been  over  the  whole  ground. 
Brother  S.  says  Dr.  E ns  is  afraid  of  union  both  in  Asso- 
ciation and  Theological  Academy.  In  the  former,  he  will  act 
neither  for  nor  against.  I  hope  he  will  not  act  against  the  latter. 
In  some  things  this  good  man's  feelings  are  a  little  singular.  In 
the  above  cases  I  conceive  he  fears  where  no  fear  is.  Brother  S. 
says,  all  our  conference  has  produced  in  him  only  "  painful  doubt." 
I  hope  as  reflection  has  produced  in  degree  a  favorable  change 
in  his  views,  that  more  information  and  reflection  will  ultimately 
produce  entire  conviction  of  the  practicability  and  duty  of  union. 
I  am  confirmed  in  the  opinion,  that  personal  considerations  as 
it  respects  him,  and  you  more  especially,  loudly  call  for  union — 
but  these  compared  with  infinitely  superior  reasons,  should  not 
be  named.  I  cannot  but  believe,  that  as  Christians,  as  ministers 
of  Christ  we  are  bound  in  this  case  to  unite. 

I  cannot  but  wonder,  that  in  existing  circumstances,  in  a  state 
of  things  so  singular — when  Providence  is  speaking  to  us  in  pass- 
ing events  in  a  voice  so  loud  and  impressive  to  combine  our 
influence  and  efforts  to  preserve  and  strengthen  the  things 


APPENDIX.  481 

which  remain  and  which  are  ready  to  die,  that  Christians,  like 
those  concerned  in  this  business,  should  need  persuasion  to 
unite.  One  would  suppose  that  they  would  all  rejoice  in  the  oppor- 
tunity of  doing  it — and  embrace  it  when  offered  with  eagerness 
and  gratitude.  There  is  to  me  a  mystery  in  the  business.  But 
I  trust  it  is  only  a  trial  thrown  in  our  way,  to  test  our  zeal,  and 
fidelity  and  perseverance  in  our  Master's  service — and  that,  if 
we  are  not  wanting  in  our  duty  the  object  will  be  happily  accom- 
plished. Much,  we  believe,  under  Providence  will  depend  on 
YOU — and  there,  under  God,  I  depend.  On  "  ALL  your  influence 
and  EXERTIONS"  /  confidently  calculate.  I  know  your  situation  is 
delicate — but  you  need  not,  you  must  not,  be  afraid  to  act.  I 
believe  Brother  S.  is  possessed  of  the  whole  of  our  views.  He 
has  heard  with  candor — and  conferred  with  frankness — and  has 
pleased  and  interested  both  Dr.  P.  and  myself.  I  think  he  will 
be  led  to  a  result,  which  will  be  satisfactory  to  us.  He  stands  in 
a  situation  to  gain  or  lose  much  by  his  ultimate  decision.  I  fer- 
vently pray  God  to  direct  him. 

In  regard  to  myself  I  am  exhausted  with  fatigue  and  cannot 
say  half  I  wish  to.  As  to  my  feelings  towards  you,  they  are  as 
expressed  in  my  last — nothing  I  trust  will  ever  separate  us.  The 
Panoplist  is  out,  but  not  done  up — will  send  you  a  number  by 
to-morrow's  stage  in  season  for  Association.  Pray  attend  to  that 
business.  Will  endeavor  to  do  what  I  can  on  my  journey  and 
write  you.  Pray  neglect  not  to  write  me  frequently  and  particu- 
larly according  to  directions  in  my  last.  Wish  you  to  prepare 
an  Address,  to  be  printed  with  the  Index,  etc.,  to  be  prefixed 

to  second  vol.  when  bound;  show  it  to  Dr.  P n  who  will  be 

at  Byfield  to  visit  his  father,  and  at  Newburyport  next  week. 
Pray  see  and  confer  with  him  again.  Let  him  see  and  talk 
with  the  Donors.  He  can .  best  explain  to  them  the  Visitatorial 
plan  of  union  with  which  I  cannot  but  believe  they  will  be 
pleased.  Write  me  again  on  Saturday.  I  go  on  Monday. 

Brother  Spring  has  just  come,  and  is  going  directly.  I  can 
only  say  adieu — that  you  must  believe  I  love  you  and  am  your 
friend  and  affectionate  brother, 

J.  MOUSE. 

P.  S. — The  union  MUST  take  place.  Think  in  no  other 
channel.  Hurry  nothing — better  delay  till  after  Election  than 
to  do  any  thing  rashly. 


482       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Church. 

NEWBURYPOKT,  April  19,  1807. 

DEAR  BROTHER, — Mr.  S.  has  returned.  Dr.  P.,  Dr.  M.  and  he 
had  a  long  talk.  Mr.  S.  told  Dr.  M.  when  he  left  him,  that  the 
effect  of  all  his  reflections  was  only  "  painful  doubt."  I  have  not 
seen,  nor  heard  from  Mr.  S.  since  his  return.  I  wish  you  were 
here.  We  would  have  a  long  talk  with  him.  May  heavenly 
wisdom  direct  his  mind,  and  the  minds  of  all  concerned  in  the 
direction  of  this  great  affair.  Dr.  Emmons  has  fears.  I  send 
the  Panoplist,  which  was  out  sooner  than  we  expected.  Pray  be 
in  earnest  for  General  Association.  Our  Association,  I  doubt  not, 
will  come  in  to  a  man;  I  expect  that  Mr.  Mead's  and  Tomp kins' 
will.  I  hope  it  will  be  general.  The  greater  number  of  Asso- 
ciations, thoroughly  Calvinistic,  who  join,  the  more  influence 
they  will  have  in  the  whole  business.  Why  should  we  not  go 
and  do  what  we  can  ?  I  think  Hopkinsians  of  a  right  spirit  are 
the  men  to  be  there. 

If  I  get  further  information  in  season,  I  wih1  forward  another 
letter  to  Mr.  A.  to  be  conveyed  with  this.  All  my  feelings  are 
interested  when  I  think  of  you  and  yours. 

L.  WOODS. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Spring. 

NEWBURY,  April  20,  1807. 

EEV.  AND  BELOVED  SIR, — As  Mr.  Bartlett  has  expressed  a  wish 
to  know  my  feelings  on  the  great  question  under  consideration, 
and  as  you  think  it  proper  and  advisable,  that  I  should  lay  before 
the  Donors  those  arguments  which  appear  to  me  the  most  im- 
portant, I  readily  comply.  According  to  arrangement  I  ad- 
dress my  letter  to  you,  requesting  that,  after  you  read  it,  you 
would  hand  it,  with  my  sincere  respects,  to  Messrs.  Brown  and 
Bartlett,  and  if  you  please  to  Mr.  Norris. 

Eespecting  the  nature  and  design  of  a  Theological  Institution 
my  views  have  perfectly  harmonised  with  yours.  I  consider 
thorough  consistent  Calvinism  to  be  Divine  truth.  And  when  I 
name  Calvinism,  I  mean  the  system  which  the  most  enlightened, 
and  respectable  Hopkinsians  embrace.  For  many  years,  as  you 
well  know,  I  have  had  an  increasing  conviction  of  the  excellence 
and  importance  of  that  system ;  and  never  more  than  now.  The  in- 
fluence of  thorough  Calvinism  is,  in  my  apprehension,  essential  to 
the  prosperity  of  the  Church  and  the  Nation.  A  Theological 


APPENDIX.  483 

Academy,  which  should  not  promote  that  system  of  doctrinal  and 
practical  religion,  I  should  consider  a  Divine  judgment  rather 
than  a  blessing. 

For  some  time  after  Messrs.  Brown  and  Bartlett  expressed 
their  generous  determination  to  endow  a  Theological  Academy,  I 
saw  no  prospect  of  a  happy  coalition,  and  thought  it  best  to  pro- 
ceed immediately  with  the  Newbury  Academy.  Indeed  that 
plan  was  always  most  gratifying  to  my  feelings.  You  recollect 
I  have  often  said,  if  two  Institutions  are  to  exist,  I  am  attached 
to  the  one  proposed  by  Messrs.  Brown  and  Bartlett.  And  I  know 
not  that  I  should  have  hesitated  a  moment,  at  the  beginning,  if 
an  assistant  or  partner  had  been  fully  contemplated.  The  weight 
of  such  an  Institution  I  thought  too  much  for  one. 

My  views  respecting  the  great  object  are  not  in  any  degree 
altered.  The  question  which  has  occupied  my  mind  for  several 
weeks,  and  which  I  have  seriously  endeavored  to  view  in  every 
attitude,  is  this,  in  what  way  can  the  object  of  the  Donors  be  most 
effectually  secured  ?  In  other  words;  is  it  best  for  the  cause  of  truth 
and  righteousness,  to  have  two  distinct  Institutions  or  to  have  both 
united  in  one?  The  question  is  of  great  magnitude,  and  involves 
so  many  considerations,  that  no  man  can  safely  decide  upon  it 
without  much  attention.  I  have  as  high  esteem  for  Dr.  Emmons, 
as  for  any  man  living.  But  I  much  doubt,  whether,  upon  due 
reflection,  he  will  justify  himself  for  his  hasty  decision. 

I  shall  now  proceed  to  lay  before  you  those  considerations, 
which  at  present  appear  to  me  worthy  of  serious  notice.  I  wish 
the  subject  may  be  most  solemnly  and  devoutly  attended  to,  and 
that  the  ultimate  decision  may  be  suspended  till  the  whole 
ground  is  surveyed.  I  am  not  confident  that  my  present  views 
are  right.  If  they  are  not,  I  trust  that  your  free  observations 
and  parental  advice,  with  the  help  of  that  wisdom  which  is  from 
above,  will  bring  my  mind  to  a  better  frame.  And  I  wish  it  may 
be  understoodj  that  the  freedom  I  have  used  and  shall  now  use  in 
stating  the  arguments  which  seem  to  favor  a  union  are  not  meant 
to  express  my  ultimate  determination.  I  Estate  them  as  argu- 
ments which  have  weight  in  my  mind,  and  may  possibly  in  the 
minds  of  others.  But  as  to  myself,  I  wait  for  further  light  and 
counsel. 

The  nature  of  the  union  proposed,  is  this;  viz.,  the  Donors 
shall  have  the  Theological  branch  of  instruction  in  the  Seminary 
under  their  care.  Their  Professor  shall  teach  divinity,  properly 
so  called,  to  all  the  students.  That  branch  shall  be  under  their 
supreme  direction.  They  shall  have  their  own  Constitution  and 


484       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

rules,  elect  their  Professors,  admit  students,  etc.,  according  to 
their  own  pleasure,  without  any  control  or  embarrassment  what- 
ever from  the  Phillips  establishment.  Yea,  they  may  have  still 
more  extensive  ground  particularly  allotted  to  them,  if  they 
choose.  That  is,  they  may  support  a  Professorship  of  ecclesiasti- 
cal history,  or  of  ethics,  or  any  other  branch  which  they  conceive 
to  be  most  important;  besides  having  their  share  of  influence  in 
all  the  general  arrangements,  which  relate  to  the  Seminary.  In 
short,  I  know  not  one  advantage,  or  privilege,  or  security,  which 
the  Donors  would  wish  for,  that  would  not  be  freely  and  heartily 
granted. 

A  union  upon  these  principles,  it  is  thought,  would  be  at- 
tended with  the  following  advantages. 

1.  One  building  and  one  Library  will  answer  for  all  the  stu- 
dents.    This  will  be  a  saving  of  property  sufficient  to  support  a 
considerable  number  of  students. 

2.  One  set  of  Professors  and  one  course  of  instruction  will 
accommodate  a  large  number  as  well  as  a  small. 

3.  Orthodox  Professors  will  have  twice  the  number  of  stu- 
dents, and  probably  many  more,  under  their  care,  and  so  will 
have  opportunity  to  furnish  and  send  forth  a  far  greater  number 
of  orthodox  candidates.     The  separate  Academy  might  educate 
a  good  number  of  promising  candidates.     But  the  Donors  uniting 
at  Andover  may  do  all  this  and  more.     In  that  case  they  will 
have  the  noble  advantage  of  forming  the  theological  character 
of  all  the  young  men,  whom  the  united  Institution  would  com- 
mand.    Now  what  can  strict  zealous  Calvinists  wish,  that  is  more 
favorable  to  the  interests  of  true  theology,  than  to  be  placed 
under   advantages    to    instruct   the   great    body   of    the    rising 
clergy  in  New  England,  which  they  might  reasonably  expect  on  the 
union  plan.     They  have  a  just  confidence  in  the  truth  of  their 
system,  and  may  hope  everything  from  the  influence  of  uniform 
sound  instruction,  on  unprejudiced,  virtuous  young  men.     Why 
would  not  the  influence  of  faithful  instruction  on  pious  students, 
be  as  great  at  Andover  as  any  where  else  ? 

4.  The  Theological  Professor,  chosen  by  the  Donors,  would 
have  his  whole  attention  confined  to  one  branch,  and  so  would 
become  a  much  more  able  and  useful  Theological  instructor. 
To  enlarge  the  field  of  his  labor  greatly,  would  leave  him  less 
time  and  opportunity  to  cultivate  any  part  of  it  in  the  best  man- 
ner.    The  union  scheme  would  furnish  Professors  for  the  various 
branches,  so  that  each  might  be  more  expert,  and  more  respect- 
able in  his  particular  line.     And  so, 


APPENDIX.  485 

5.  The  Seminary  would  'become  the  more  dignified  and  hon- 
orable in  a  literary  and  religious  view,  and  would  attract  the 
more  extensive  notice.  There  is  not  an  Institution  of  the  kind 
on  the  face  of  the  earth  so  respectable  as  this  may  be  with  the 
united  influence  of  the  funds  and  patrons  on  both  sides,  and  all 
the  weighty  characters  who  wiU  befriend  and  serve  it.  It 
will  have  the  students  from  all  the  Colleges  in  New  England,  and 
many,  I  doubt  not,  from  the  Southern  States.  All  the  churches 
will  look  to  the  Seminary  for  candidates,  and  will  be  supplied 
annually  with  a  little  host,  that  shall  give  a  new  face  to  the  cause 
of  morality  and  religion,  and  throw  dismay  into  the  camp  of  the 
enemy. 

I  would  now,  dear  sir,  view  the  subject  in  a  different  attitude. 
To  prevent  evil  is  to  do  good.  The  evils  attending  a  separate  In- 
stitution, it  is  feared,  would  be  many.  I  think  it  very  likely,  that 
you,  sir,  would  suffer  much  in  a  personal  view.  All  the  reproach 
of  separation  would  fall  on  you.  It  would  injure  your  influence 
in  our  Association,  where  you  have  just  begun  to  have  the  respect 
and  confidence  which  I  have  ever  wished  you  to  have.  It  would 
hurt  your  influence  in  our  theological  conference,  and  it  would 
deprive  you  of  all  the  opportunity  you  would  have  to  do  good, 
if  the  union  should  take  place.  The  union,  dear  sir,  would  intro- 
duce you  to  the  affection  and  esteem  of  thousands,  and  spread 
your  influence  over  the  Commonwealth.  I  contemplate  this  point 
with  very  lively  feelings.  It  has  been  my  constant  grief,  that  you 
have  not  enjoyed  that  place  in  our  churches  and  among  ministers 
at  large,  which  you  ought  to  have.  Every  degree  of  influence  which 
you  have  gained  in  this  circle,  since  I  came  here,  has  added  just 
so  much  to  my  happiness.  But  I  would  not  dwell  on  this  point. 
The  separate  Institution  would  introduce  an  unhappy  rivalship, 
and  all  the  evils  of  religious  strife  and  party  spirit.  There  would 
be  a  great  clashing  of  opinion  and  feeling  among  the  pious  part 
of  the  community.  Some  wTould  join  with  one  side,  and  some  with 
the  other;  and  all  the  evils  of  the  times  would  be  augmented. 
We  should,  it  is  seriously  feared,  be  in  a  broil  all  our  days.  Re- 
ligion would  bleed  in  the  contest,  and  truth  would  be  trodden 
under  foot  in  our  streets.  I  expect  division, — division  there  ought 
to  be  between  the  friends  of  religion  and  those  who  reject,  or 
corrupt  the  gospel,  as  all  Socinians,  Arminians,  etc.,  do.  But 
how  sad  it  is  to  divide  or  to  be  instrumental  in  dividing  the 
hearty  friends  of  Christ,  and  the  true  ministers  of  the  gospel  ? 
How  dreadful  to  divide  those,  who  will  be  one  forever,  and  who 
ought  to  be  one,  and  may  be  one  now  ?  It  is  a  day  of  alarm  and 


486       HISTOEY  OF  ANDOVER   THEOLOGICAL   SEMINARY. 

danger.  There  is  a  flood  of  anticliristian  error  and  soul  destroy- 
ing corruption  coming  in  upon  us,  and  threatening  to  sweep  away 
every  remnant  of  primitive  truth  and  goodness.  Faithful  Chris- 
tians are  few  in  num  >  •<-.  I  tuey  do  not  unite  their  forces,  they 
will  not  be  able  to  look  the  enemy  in  the  face.  Now  if  there  are  two 
Institutions,  part  of  the  faithful  will  support  one,  and  part  the 
other.  Consequently,  no  measure  for  the  good  of  Zion  can  be  pur- 
sued with  the  best  prospect  of  success.  But  if  all,  who  are  on 
Christ's  side,  may  be  brought  to  co-operate,  their  cause  will  be 
triumphant.  If  those  who  are  on  orthodox  ground,  divide  on  such 
an  important  subject,  their  enemies  will  all  rejoice  and  will  take 
advantage  from  it  to  strengthen  themselves.  They  might  do  much 
to  contract  the  usefulness  of  both  Institutions,  separately  consid- 
ered. But  if  all  the  orthodox  unite  in  one  great  Institution,  no 
effectual  resistance  can  be  made  against  them. 

A  separate  Academy  in  present  circumstances,  would  not  have 
the  brightest  prospect.  For  as  the  strictly  orthodox  now  have 
opportunity  to  unite  on  any  conditions  which  their  wisdom  shall 
propose,  their  separating  would  not  meet  the  approbation  of  the 
orthodox  clergy  and  the  Christian  public  in  general.  It  is  in- 
deed manifest,  that  the  Academy  having  such  opulent  and  liberal 
patrons,  would  never  want  sufficient  funds.  But  in  other  respects 
the  case  might  not  be  so  nattering,  For  it  must  be  remembered 
that  the  friends  of  the  Andover  Seminary  have  the  esteem  and  en- 
tire confidence  of  the  Presidents  and  other  influential  characters 
in  New  England  Colleges,  and  by  the  earliest  application  would 
most  certainly  secure  their  patronage.  Consequently  the  Semi- 
nary would  have  the  great  body  of  the  students.  That  would  prob- 
ably be  the  popular  Institution.  America,  England  and  Scotland 
would  be  searched  for  Professors,  wtose  name  should  be  popular 
and  famous.  But  there  is  reason  to  apprehend  that  the  education 
of  the  students  would  be  less  solid  and  useful,  than  it  might  be,  if 
the  orthodox  Donors  accepted  the  plan,  which  is  now  offered  them 
^n  the  Seminary.  Now  if  that  Seminary  is  in  danger  of  any  wrong 
influence,  would  it  not  be  noble,  to  go  upon  the  plan  of  securing 
it  from  danger,  especially,  if  that  can  be  done,  without  any  loss 
of  advantage.  If  there  is  a  separation,  all  the  students  coming 
from  the  Seminary  will  be  in  danger  of  having  their  minds  pre- 
judiced, in  some  measure,  against  consistent  Calvinism,  and  so 
the  desirable  effects  of  impartial  inquiry  and  clear  gospel  light 
will  be  obstructed. 

Why  then  shall  not  the  union  take  place  ?  Is  not  union  in  it- 
self desirable  ?  May  it  not  be  had  on  the  most  advantageous  terms 


APPENDIX.  487 

that  can  be  stated?  What  substantial  reason  is  there  against  it? 
Is  there  any  objection  sufficient  to  counterbalance  the  good  which 
union  would  afford,  and  the  evils  it  would  prevent  ? 

The  great  objection  is,  the  apprehended  danger  of  the  union. 
It  is  feared  that  orthodoxy  would  be  borne  down,  and  that  a  coun- 
ter influence  would  prevail;  that  the  orthodox  Visitors,  Profess- 
ors and  even  Donors  would  by  and  by  be  trodden  under  foot. 
But  let  it  be  considered  that  the  spirit  of  the  times,  particularly 
the  late  management  of  Harvard  College,  has  brought  those  who 
were  on  the  old  middle  ground,  to  more  consistent  feelings.  They 
acknowledge  their  past  errors  and  have  come  up  much  higher  in 
orthodoxy.  And  there  seems  an  evident  tendency  in  the  events 
of  Providence  towards  one,  and  only  one  grand  division. 

Again,  the  gentlemen  who  have  the  lead  in  Andover  Seminary, 
express,  in  various  ways,  a  most  friendly  feeling  towards  Hopkin- 
sians.  They  openly  say  they  consider  them  as  the  most  useful 
ministers.  They  earnestly  wish  them  to  come  in  and  have  their 
share  of  influence  in  the  Institution.  I  have  had  fears  about  them 
as  well  as  you.  But  a  fuller  consideration  of  existing  circumstan- 
ces, and  a  more  perfect  acquaintance  with  their  views  and  feelings 
have  lessened  my  fears.  It  is  their  wish  that  we  would  see,  a  little  whik 
hence,  whether  they  are  not  in  earnest  for  orthodoxy.  Their  checks, 
their  rules,  and  measures,  they  think,  will  convince  all,  that  they  de- 
termine the  divinity  of  the  Seminary  shall  not  be  one  inch  below  what 
theframers  of  the  Catechism  meant.  Another  security  is,  they  feel 
that  the  friendship  and  co-operation  of  Hopkinsians  are  connected 
with  their  great  object.  This  surely  will  prevent  any  attempt  to 
diminish  their  influence.  It  cannot  be  conceived  that  Hopkinsi- 
ans would  have  low  ground  in  the  Seminary.  If  I  had  any  apprehen- 
sions that  they  would,  I  should  not  have  another  favorable  thought 
of  union.  But  the  riches,  the  liberality,  and  respectable  char- 
acters of  their  Donors,  the  pains  taken  to  bring  them  in,  the  weight 
of  piety  and  the  light  of  truth  on  their  side  will  give  them  perfect 
freedom  and  boldness.  They  will  be  in  circumstances  of  the 
greatest  independence.  In  short  the  Donors  and  Visitors,  on  that 
side  will,  without  the  least  doubt,  be  most  sincerely  respected,  and 
most  gratefully  honored  by  the  Seminary. 

It  may  be  thought  that  their  Professor  will  be  in  danger  of 
being  less  faithful  at  Andover,  than  in  a  distinct  Academy;  that 
the  tone  of  his  theology  will  be  lower,  etc.  But  let  it  be  well 
considered  what  motives  to  fidelity  he  will  have.  He  will  be  sup- 
ported by  an  orthodox  fund.  He  will  be  accountable  to  the  or- 
thodox founders,  and  subject  in  all  things  to  the  guidance  and 


488       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

inspection  of  orthodox  Visitors.  Above  all,  he  will  act,  if  a  good 
man,  as  under  the  eye  of  the  great  Head  of  the  church  and  with 
a  view  to  the  day  of  final  account.  If  with  such  motives  an  or- 
thodox Professor  cannot  be  trusted  at  Andover,  he  is  not  fit  to 
be  trusted  anywhere.  And  if  one  is  chosen  who  is  calculated  to  have 
a  good  influence  upon  young  minds,  the  more  he  can  have  under 
his  tuition,  the  stronger  will  be  his  motives  to  diligence,  and  the 
better  his  prospect  of  usefulness.  And  if  two  strictly  orthodox 
Professors  are  supported  b}r  the  Donors  in  different  branches, 
the  influence  of  the  truth  will  be  the  more  sensibly  felt,  and  the 
security  against  all  abuse  and  error  the  more  certain.  I  think  of 
this  plan  with  some  ardor.  If  there  must  be  three  Professors,  let 
our  Donors  introduce  two,  and  they  will  have  weight  in  proportion. 

From  Dr.  Church  to  L.  Woods. 

PELHAM,  April  25,  1807. 

DEAK  BROTHER, — I  long  to  receive  a  letter  from  you.  I  hope 
things  respecting  the  Seminary,  union,  etc.,  are  progressing  very 
favorably.  When  the  set  time  to  favor  Zion  arrives,  how  easy  it 
is  with  the  Lord  to  effect  His  gracious  purposes,  to  the  joy  of  His 
friends,  and  the  confusion  of  His  enemies.  How  desirable  and 
happy  to  be  workers  with  Him.  How  important  to  know  when  to 
wait  on  and  for  the  Lord,  and  when  to  go  forward  and  make 
zealous  exertions.  How  must  the  proposed  Institution  appear  to 
the  government  of  Harvard  College.  Perhaps  they  feel  as  Tobiah 
did  when  the  Jews  builded  the  wall.  If  a  fox  go  up  he  shall  break 
it  down.  It  mast  I  think  alarm  the  enemies  of  truth,  if  the  union 
take  place,  and  things  proceed  agreeable  to  our  hopes  and  wishes. 
With  respect  to  some  of  Dr.  M.'s  feelings  towards  Mr.  S.  I  think 
the  Dr.  may  look  back  a  few  years  to  his  conduct  in  the  Missionary 
Society,  and  see  that  he  has  given  occasion  to  others  to  have 
doubts  and  suspicions.  But  I  hope  there  will  be  no  further 
occasion  for  them.  I  hope  there  will  now  be  mutual  confidence 
between  those  worthy  men.  I  have  lately  learnt  some  favorable 
things  respecting  Rev.  Mr.  Bemis  of  Harvard,  that  he  has  revived 
discipline  in  his  church  after  it  had  been  neglected  twenty  years. 
Some  persons  during  this  period  had  been  known  drunkards  and 
yet  were  suffered  to  come  to  the  Lord's  table.  Mr.  B.  was  so  sen- 
sible of  the  evil,  that  he  told  the  church  that  he  would  never 
break  bread  to  them  again  except  they  disciplined  these  members. 
It  had  a  good  effect.  He  is  said  to  dislike  the  conduct  of  neigh- 
boring ministers.  Yours  affectionately, 

J.  H.  CHURCH. 


APPENDIX.  489 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBTTBY,  May  6,  1807. 

KEY.  AND  BELOVED  SIR, — I  have  just  received  yours  of  the  29th 
ult.  containing  very  agreeable  information  concerning  your  pros- 
perous journey,  your  interview  with  Dr.  D wight,  etc.  I  desire  to 
unite  in  your  devout  acknowledgment  of  the  Divine  goodness,  to 
you  and  Mrs.  Morse.  Your  mentioning  your  "perfect  health" 
gives  me  sincere  pleasure.  May  God,  in  whom  we  live  and  move 
and  have  our  being,  continue  to  be  your  guardian  and  friend, 
through  your  journey.  May  your  health,  so  important  to  your 
family,  to  your  people,  and  to  the  church  of  Christ,  be  established 
and  continued.  May  your  last  days  be  your  best  days  in  all 
respects. 

What  you  say  of  Panoplist  affords  pleasure  and  encouragement. 
Dr.  Dwight's  approbation  is  very  valuable.  Pastor  will  not  be 
backward  to  do  what  he  can,  if  Providence  permit.  There  appears 
some  tendency  towards  reformation  in  some  churches.  Br.  Bemis 
of  Harvard  has  lately  made  a  bold  stand,  and  told  his  church 
that  he  would  not  break  bread  to  them  again  before  they  disci- 
plined disorderly  members,  knaves,  or  such  like  characters  in  the 
church.  His  resolution  roused  them.  Bemis,  I  hear,  is  growing 
more  orthodox,  and  is  likely  to  be  a  faithful  servant  of  God  in 
the  midst  of  a  perverse  generation  and  a  perverse  Association. 

As  to  union,  I  wish  I  could  say  all  you  wish.  I  should  have 
written  before,  if  I  had  been  able  to  communicate  anything  definite. 
Week  before  last  I  was  with  Dr.  Pearson  at  Newburyport.  Mr.  B. 
and  Mr.  B.  were  with  us  at  Mr.  S.'s.  Last  week  Tuesday, 
(April  28),  Dr.  Pearson  went  again.  Mr.  Norris  arrived  soon 
after  him.  They  were  together  most  of  three  days,  I  think.  The 
subject  was  thoroughly  attended  to.  Dr.  Pearson  had  full  op- 
portunity. They  were  free  and  friendly  to  a  high  degree.  All 
fully  pleased  and  satisfied  with  Dr.  P.  Dr.  S.  has  as  much  con- 
fidence in  his  orthodoxy  and  piety,  as  he  has  in  any  man's  in  the 
world.  And  Dr.  P.  is  most  favorably  impressed  as  to  Mr.  S. 
and  the  other  three.  He  thinks  he  never  knew  more  excellent 
men  than  those  four.  Thus  far  is  above  your  expectation.  But 
wheja  at  an  appointed  time  they  delivered  to  Dr.  P.  their  decision, 
(for  they  chose  to  decide)  it  was  to  have  no  connection  whatever 
with  Phillips  Academy,  but  to  have  an  Institution  de  now.  Upon 
further  conversation,  they  expressed  a  willingness,  and  I  believe 
a  wish,  that  the  other  side,  should  join  with  them.  They  ^con- 
cluded to  suspend  every  operation  for  the  present  that  would 


490       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

preclude  union  in  a  new  Institution,  and  consent  to  a  confer- 
ence on  the  subject  after  your  return.  Dr.  P.  told  me  on  his 
return  he  left  Newburyport  with  very  happy  feelings,  and  should 
endeavor  to  impress  the  same  feelings  on  the  minds  of  all  his 
friends.  I  am  ready  to  imagine  that  he  is  pretty  much  disposed 
to  favor  a  union  on  the  new  plan.  Union  on  the  old  plan  of 
connection  with  Phillips  establishment  is  omnino  des  pemndum. 
Union,  on  some  plan,  I  hope  the  Lord  will  grant.  In  the  midst 
of  their  discussion  Dr.  Spring  read  a  long  letter,  large  sheet  and  half, 
which  I  had  prepared  in  favor  of  union.  My  exertions  went  to 
the  extent  of  -  propriety.  I  will  tell  you  more  when  I  see  you. 
But  you  need  not  think  it  strange  if  you  find  I  have  given  a 
serious  offense  to  some  with  whom  I  have  been  most  intimate. 
I  made  my  calculation  for  the  probability  that  I  should.  How- 
ever the  Lord  will  direct  and  overrule.  "  Man's  heart  deviseih 
his  way,  but  the  Lord  directeth  his  steps."  The  object  is  of  vast 
magnitude.  I  desire  to  look  above  all  personal  and  selfish  regards. 
I  long  for  your  return,  hope  it  will  be  before  election.  I  think 
it  will  be  best  to  send  this  to  New  York,  that  it  may  meet  you  on 
your  return.  Probably  you  would  leave  Philadelphia  before  it  would 
arrive.  At  New  Haven  I  wish  you  to  make  inquiry,  thorough 
inquiry,  though  if  possible  without  exciting  any  suspicion,  about 
Swan,  who  was  graduated  at  Yale  College  a  year  or  more,  prob- 
ably two  years  ago,  has  studied  with  Dr.  Emmons  and  is  about 
settling  in  Connecticut;  know  his  scholarship,  his  religious  char- 
acter, his  discretion,  his  probable  influence,  his  everything.  Let 
no  word  be  dropped  about  him  till  I  see  you.  I  have  sent  on, 
Editor's  address.  Dr.  P.  saw,  and  approved,  and  mended.  My 
esteem  and  affection  for  my  old  Professor  can  no  longer  be  ex- 
ceeded by  yours.  He  is  able  to  do  much  good.  President 
McKeen  is  going  down  to  the  grave.  Dr.  Symms  deceased  last 
Sabbath.  Mr.  French  it  is  reported  is  going.  We  must  be  dili- 
gent to  get  our  work  done,  for  the  night  cometh. 

Mrs.  Woods  is  comfortable.  We  journey  next  week  to  Wor-  • 
cester,  but  shall  make  a  short  visit.  Br.  Walker  and  sister 
Sophia  are  to  be  united  while  we  are  at  Worcester.  We  accept 
the  expressions  of  your  and  Mrs.  Morse's  love  with  great  satisfac- 
tion, and  reciprocate  them  with  the  warmest  sincerity.  Adieu. 
May  you  have  still  a  prosperous  journey  through  the  will  of  God. 
In  haste  and  fatigue. 

Yours, 

L.  WOODS. 


APPENDIX.  491 

From  L.  Woods  to  I.  Warren. 

NEWBUET,  May  8,  1807. 

BELOVED  BROTHER, — I  have  so  many  excuses  for  delaying  so 
long  to  write,  that  I  will  offer,  none.  We  are  blessed  with  com- 
fortable health,  though  our  children  have  been  quite  unwell.  We 
have  a  young  lady  keeping  school,  who  boards  with  us.  She  is 
a  good  young  woman,  and  very  agreeable  in  our  family.  Next 
week  we  propose,  if  God  permit,  to  journey  to  Worcester.  Mr. 
Walker  and  our  sister  are  to  be  united  in  marriage,  which  is  an 
additional  motive  to  journey  at  this  agreeable  season.  We  ex- 
pect to  return  the  week  after.  Probably  Mrs.  W.  will  not  come 
with  me  at  election.  The  occasion  is  not  altogether  suitable  for 
one  of  her  slender  make.  I  hope  to  be  with  you  myself  Monday 
night  or  Tuesday  forenoon. 

As  to  the  great  affair,  which  has  lain  with  such  weight  on  my 
mind,  I  can  say  but  little  now.  The  question  is  not  fully  decided* 
Though  the  gentlemen  have  determined  not  to  have  any  connec- 
tion with  Phillips  Academy,  yet  a  union  may  perhaps  be  formed 
on  some  plan  or  other.  Let  the  whole  remain  in  silence  till  the 
time  for  publication  comes. 

It  is  a  great  and  wonderful  affair.  God  is  to  be  acknowl- 
edged in  what  has  been  done,  and  to  be  devoutly  sought  in  what 
remains  to  be  done.  Oh,  my  dear  sir,  how  much  is  to  be  done, 
and  how  short  our  time  for  doing !  I  have  never  been  so  much 
struck  with  the  shortness  of  life  as  lately.  Death  commonly  gets 
very  near  us  before  he  is  seen,  because  our  faces  are  turned  the 
other  way.  If  we  were  habitually  looking  towards  eternity,  we 
should  always  see  it  near,  I  hope,  beloved  brother,  you  will 
have  many  good  years  on  earth;  that  your  last  days  will,  in  all 
respects,  be  your  best,  that  you  will  do  much  good  before  you 
die,  and  more  after  you  die. 

I  received  your  letter  by  Mr.  Spring  with  pleasure.  My  ideas 
respecting  the  great  scheme  of  a  Theological  Institution  have  been 
pretty  unfixed.  But  under  the  direction  of  Infinite  Wisdom,  the 
matter  will  end  well.  There  will  probably  be  another  Conference, 
at  Newburyport  the  fore  part  of  June,  when  final  measures  will 
be  adopted.  I  long  to  see  you,  and  to  have  free  converse  on  all 
matters  of  importance.  Brother  Church  is  to  be  here  in  a  day  or 
two  for  marriage;  I  mean  at  Newburyport.  His  prospect  is  good. 

With  sincere  regards  to  Mrs.  W.  and  all  yours,  I  subscribe 
your  brother, 

L.  WOODS. 

P.  S. — Mrs.  Woods  joins  in  true  love  and  esteem  for  you  all. 


492       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBUBT,  June  1,  1807. 

DEAR  SIR, — At  Newburyport,  in  a  retired  street,  I  met  Mr. 
Brown.  He  wished  for  conversation.  We  talked  half  an  hour. 
It  is  in  vain  to  propose  any  connection  with  Andover  Trustees. 
They  are  all  fixed  against  it.  But  I  think  Mr.  B.  and  probably 
the  other  two  will  be  ready  to  fall  in  with  a  plan  for  one  Union 
Seminary  de  novo.  It  will,  I  think,  be  expedient  to  take  up  one 
branch  of  the  business  at  a  time.  The  first  question  seems  to  be, 
whether  the  two  sides  (I  am  not  willing  to  call  them  parties)  can 
unite  in  a  new  Theological  Institution.  As  to  the  place,  it  appears 
to  me  best  that  no  question  should  be  had  about  it,  before  the 
other,  which  is  first  in  importance,  and  first  in  order,  is  attended  to 
and  decided.  If  the  plan  for  a  united  academy  can  be  settled,  a  con- 
stitution formed,  etc.,  it  will  not  be  difficult  to  find  the  place.  The 
three  gentlemen  are  exceedingly  attached  to  West  Newbury,  which 
is  near  the  place  where  Mr.  Brown  was  born.  I  think  it  would 
be  best  not  to  suggest  anything  against  it  for  the  present.  Let 
them  know  that  a  place  will  be  finally  chosen  which  has  the  great- 
est advantages.  Let  the  whole  attention  be  given  to  the  plan  of 
the  Institution.  Mr.  B.  says  "he wants  no  mention  made  of  Hopkinsi- 
anism;  but  wishes  for  old  Calvinism  up  to  the  hub."  I  suppose  Mr. 
Bartlett  feels  so  too.  Mr.  Norris  may  carry  his  views  farther.  But 
they  are  determined  to  keep  together.  I  have  much  hope  that 
the  best  plan  will  be  adopted.  And  if  it  falls  to  your  part  to  make 
the  most  sacrifices  for  Christ's  precious  cause,  blessed  are  you. 
The  men  with  whom  you  have  to  do  are  among  the  best  men 
on  earth;  they  are  men  on  whom  you  can  depend,  men  who 
will  never  flinch,  never  forsake  you,  never  carry  two  faces, 
men  who  will  go  through  thick  and  thin.  But  they  have  never 
been  used  to  yield.  They  have  done  all  their  business  in  their 
own  way,  without  counsel  or  guide,  and  are  not  used  to  ecclesi- 
astical affairs.  Therefore  much  allowance  must  be  made  for 
them.  Now  if  it  should  come  to  pass,  that  you  and  Dr.  P.  are 
called  upon  to  do  even  more  than  you  at  first  contemplated  in  the 
way  of  condescension,  and  in  making  sacrifices; — I  trust  you  will 
embrace  the  precious  opportunity  of  honoring  the  Redeemer  and 
promoting  His  cause.  Oh,  for  union  in  this  great  affair !  If  we  can 
get  together  here,  I  believe  disunion  and  prejudice,  and  hostility 
among  the  Orthodox  will  die.  If  we  cannot  unite,  I  shall  think  it 
a  sign,  that  God's  time  to  favor  Zion  has  not  yet  come;  we  shall 
not  prosper  in  General  Association;  we  shall  not  obtain  our  ob- 


APPENDIX.  493 

ject  in  Convention;  we  shall  depart  more  and  more  from  each 
other.  But  if  we  can  harmonise  in  the  Theological  Institution,  it 
will  be  a  kind  of  radical  or  seminal  union,  from  which  union  in  the 
ministry  and  churches  will  gradually  spring.  But  I  will  not  en- 
large, I  will  send  you  my  letter.1  It  was  written  with  a  view  to 
the  manner  of  union  first  proposed.  But  the  arguments  will  ap- 
ply with  equal  force  to  a  plan  of  union  in  an  Institution  completely 
new.  Some  of  the  arguments  were  ad  hominem.  I  seized  every- 
thing which  I  thought  would  influence  their  minds.  Some  of  the 
arguments  and  observations,  when  perused  by  you,  will  need 
candor.  I  send  the  letter  in  the  full  expectation  that  you  will 
show  it  to  no  one,  nor  mention  anything  in  connection  with  my 
name.  Lay  it  aside  safe  from  every  eye  till  I  come. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBUBY,  June  15,  1807. 

BELOVED  SIR, — As  I  shall  not  be  with  you  to-day  at  Newbury- 
port,  I  write  to  request  that  you  would  call  upon  me  before 
your  return.  Come  up  and  stay  one  night  at  least.  But  if  you 
cannot,  write  particularly  at  the  close,  and  say  to  me  all  that  a 
father  would  say  to  a  son  who  needs  and  desires  counsel.  I  have 
written  Mr.  S.  a  line  expressive  of  my  solicitude  respecting  the 
issue  of  the  conference.  I  spent  Saturday  and  Sabbath  evening 
with  Mr.  Appleton,  in  interesting  conversation.  Two,  and  half 
past  two  o'clock,  were  our  hours  of  retiring.  I  told  him  when  we 
parted  at  that  late  hour  last  night,  I  was  satisfied  we  had  not 
adopted  "the  best  possible  plan."  Such  irregular  hours  will  not 
answer.  Pastor  is  not  transcribed.  I  think  you  may  depend  upon 
it  Thursday  or  Friday,  if  God  permit.  I  have  made  arrangements, 
so  that  if  it  appear  desirable,  I  can  go  to  Charlestown  the  latter 
part  of  the  week  after  the  first  Sabbath  in  July.  We  are  well. 
Accept  our  sincere  love  and  esteem. 

Yours, 

L.  WOODS. 

P.  S. — I  have  received  your  letter  of  the  10th  inst. 

If  the  union  takes  place  it  will  be  my  heart's  delight  and  desire 
to  continue  with  you  in  the  Panoplist;  and  I  think  it  will  be  com- 
patible with  other  duties. 

1  See  letter  to  Dr.  Spring  and  the  Associate  Donors,  April  20,  1807. 


494       HISTORY  OF  ANDOVER   THEOLOGICAL   SEMINARY. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBUBT,  June  18,  1807. 

MY  DEAR  SIR, —  It  was  not  till  last  night  that  I  knew  of  your 
being  unable  to  come  to  Newburyport.  The  occasion  of  your 
not  coming  gave  us  tender  feelings.  Whether  the  dear  child  is 
living  or  not,  I  pray  that  you  and  Mrs.  Morse  may  look  up  to 
God  with  love  and  submission,  and  say,  "  Thy  will  be  done." 
Blessed  be  the  Saviour  who  inculcated  this  happy  temper,  and 
exemplified  it  in  His  whole  life;  and  blessed  be  that  spirit  of 
grace,  which  hath  wrought  it  in  the  saints  in  all  ages,  and  I  trust 
in  you.  How  excellent  is  that  Christian  spirit,  which  leads  be- 
lievers in  affliction,  to  think  not  only  of  their  own  trouble,  but  of 
Christ's  honor  and  cause.  It  would  be  delightful  to  enlarge. 
But  uncommonly  pressing  engagements  prevent.  I  have  serious 
fears,  that  the  next  information  I  have  from  you  will  be  gloomy. 
But  I  still  have  hope,  that  God's  mercy  will  appear  in  the  life  and 
health  of  the  child.  But  I  have  comfort  in  the  thought  that  the 
child  is  a  child  of  the  covenant,  and  that  the  Saviour  will  num- 
ber it  among  His  jewels.  I  shall  much  desire  and  anxiously  wait 
for  further  information. 

I  suppose  Dr.  Pearson,  whom  I  have  not  seen  since  he  left 
Newburyport,  will  immediately  write  to  you,  and  therefore  I  shall 
omit  particulars.  It  seems  there  is  a  prospect  of  union  in  some 
form.  I  believe  if  it  can  begin  in  any  form,  its  progress  and 
issue  will  be  happy.  The  Lord  continue  to  give  you  and  your  as- 
sociates the  spirit  of  wisdom,  zeal,  and  condescension.  The  Lord 
dictate  every  measure  to  raise  an  Institution,  that  shall  honor 
pure  religion,  and  help  the  church  through  all  ages,  as  long  as 
the  sun  and  moon  shall  endure. 

I  send  Pastor.  You  will  carefully  peruse  it.  It  ought  to  be 
better  on  such  a  great  subject.  I  could  not  well  avoid  the  repeti- 
tious appearance  of  it,  consistently  with  that  plainness  which  I 
thought  of  prime  consequence.  I  felt  that  with  regard  to  the  one 
great  misapplication  of  Scripture,  there  was  need  of  line  upon  line, 
to  fix  it  deep  and  fast.  My  plan  for  future  numbers  is  suggested 
in  this.  I  thought  it  best  to  avail  myself  of  the  old  title  and 
signature,  having  been  strangely  flattered  into  the  opinion  that 
some  credit  is  attached  to  them. 

I  hardly  know  how  to  exercise  patience  enough  to  wait  for 
another  line  from  you.  With  earnest  affection,  and  prayer,  and 
tender  sympathy,  I  subscribe, 

Your  friend  and  servant, 

L.  WOODS. 


APPENDIX.  495 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBUEY,  July  21,  1807. 

DEAR  SIR, — This  long  silence  I  hope  you  will  excuse.  Num- 
berless things  have  rushed  upon  me.  But  in  my  greatest  press- 
ure of  business  and  cares,  I  feel  that  my  state  is  leisure  itself 
compared  with  yours.  I  beg  that  you  may  not  be  exhausted  and 
worn  out,  and  hastened  to  a  premature  exit.  You  are  wanted 
here,  though  I  doubt  not  you  would  be  still  more  active  and  use- 
ful in  the  world  of  perfection.  I  think  you  ought  to  practice 
upon  Thornton's  maxims  respecting  company.  I  admire  his  life. 
I  think  it  will  excite  the  zeal  of  Mr.  Spring's  triumvirate,  and 
I  hope  of  many  others,  to  do  good  upon  an  extensive  scale. 

Pastor  has  been  transcribed  with  care,  and  inspected  repeat- 
edly. But  we  don't  see  all  our  own  faults.  I  have  attended  to 
the  letter  on  Atonement,  and  have  made  large  curtailings.  There 
were  many  needless  repetitions  and  much  tiresome  length.  The 
latter  part  in  which  the  Doctor  got  upon  a  controversy  with  Dr. 
Niles,  etc.,  I  thought  it  best  to  omit.  It  is  not  done  very  ably, 
and  makes  the  thing  too  long.  Men  ought  not  to  give  us  whole 
sermons,  in  sermonical  manner  and  style,  and  call  them  letters. 
If  they  won't  have  mercy  on  editors,  editors  ought  to  have 
mercy  on  the  public.  I  have  made  a  mark  where  I  think  it  may 
be  divided.  There  is  good  matter  enough  for  two  decent  letters. 
I  thought  it  too  much  to  transcribe,  and  I  believe  the  printer 
will  easily  find  it  out.  If  you  write  me  soon,  as  in  want,  I  will 
endeavor  to  send  a  review  of  some  little  matters. 

I  had  a  good  time  at  Danvers,  Salem,  and  Beverly.  Brother 
Joseph  Emerson  has  conversed  with  Mr.  Norris,  ancj  says,  he, 
(Mr.  N.)  has  no  objection  to  union  according  to  the  plan  last  pro- 
posed, i  I  was  at  Mr.  Spring's  with  Dr.  Pearson  last  week.  Con- 
versation was  free  and  pleasant.  I  have  not  seen  Mr.  B.  or  B. 

My  freedom  on  the  subject  of  the  Seminary  is  greater  than 
propriety  would  seem  to  admit.  I  should  feel  uneasy,  did  I  not 
know  your  candor  to  construct,  and  your  fidelity  to  conceal, 
whatever  needs  candor  or  concealment.  I  have  not  the  faculty 
to  veil  any  part  of  my  mind  in  your  presence.  I  only  regret  that 
the  traits  I  have  disclosed  are  not  more  consistent  with  Christian 
propriety  and  dignity.  The  fickleness  and  incongruities  of  my 
mind,  have  been  displayed  to  a  strange  degree  on  the  subject  of 
a  Theological  Institution.  If  I  had  been  so  on  all  other  subjects, 
I  should  conclude  that  there  was  no  firmness  or  consistency  in 
1  At  West  Nowbury. 


496       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

my  character.  But  my  perplexity  and  doubt  have  long  ago 
ceased.  My  feelings  are  uniformly  in  favor  of  the  best  form  of 
union,  that  can  be  obtained. 

I  hope  to  hear  from  you  soon.  In  your  arrangements  for 
number  twenty-six,  I  have  full  confidence,  if  your  time  and  at- 
tention can  be  commanded.  I  deem  it  an  incumbrance,  to  have 
Mr.  Webster's  long  dictionary  dispute  lying  upon  us.  It  is  hardly 
compatible  with  the  design  of  the  Panoplist,  or  with  the  expecta- 
tions of  readers  in  general.  I  hope  he  will  not  infringe  our  rules 
any  more.  He  must  stand  upon  his  own  ground,  and  we  upon 
ours.  I  am  willing  to  help  him  as  far  as  our  solemn  engagement 
to  the  community  will  permit.  I  say  not  these  things  to  express 
any  dissent  from  your  design.  I  acquiesce.  But  we  must  con- 
sider it  a  sacrifice. 

Remember  us  most  affectionately  to  Mrs.  Morse.  It  gives  me 
great  pleasure,  to  see  that  her  mind  and  yours  were  so  serene  in 
the  day  of  adversity.  Remember  us  likewise  to  Mrs.  Breese  and 
her  daughter.  May  prosperity,  both  temporal  and  spiritual,  attend 
your  family.  May  God  help  you  every  day,  and  in  every  week. 
I  am,  beloved  sir,  yours  in  the  dearest  bonds. 

L.  WOODS. 

• 

P.  8. — Unless  special  reason  should  occur,  I  shall  wish  my 
next  visit  deferred  till  the  Monday  before  Commencement.  I 
can  have  an  exchange  with  Br.  Walker  the  Sabbath  before,  and 
come  on  Monday  morning,  if  the  plan  meet  your  wishes. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Church. 

NEWBUBT,  July  27,  1807. 

DEAK  BEOTHEB, — I  have  agreed  to  continue  in  Panoplist  a  little 
longer.  Mr.  Hyde's  observations  at  election  had  much  influence 
upon  my  mind.  The  business  of  Theological  Academy  is  under 
serious  consideration.  Proposals  are  to  be  made  very  soon  by 
the  Associates  at  Andover  to  the  other  gentlemen.  There  is  a 
prospect  of  a  junction  in  certain  respects,  particularly  as  to 
location;  though  this  is  not  decided. 

There  have  been  two  interesting  characters  here  of  late; 
Mr.  Blackburn  from  Cherokee  Country,  and  Mr.  Hughes  from  Ohio. 
I  heard  them  both  preach.  Mr.  Hughes  is  tender  and  heavenly, 
Mr.  Blackburn  rousing,  thundering.  You  will  see  something  of 
them  in  Panoplist,  and  I  will  tell  you  more.  You  will  see  in 
next  number  an  extract  of  a  pleasing  letter  from  Charles  Coffin. 


APPENDIX.  497 

I  want  very  much  to  propose  an  exchange,  but  don't  know 
how  to  leave  home  so  long.  Mrs.  "Woods  is  now  without  do- 
mestic help.  Her  girl  is  just  gone.  If  you  could  exchange 
with  Mr.  Tompkins,  or  Mead  or  Dutch,  it  would  give  better 
opportunity  for  visit  and  conversation,  than  if  we  should  ex- 
change. Let  me  know  if  you  can,  when  we  may  hope  to  see 
you.  I  hope,  beloved  brother,  you  prosper  in  all  respects.  As 
for  myself,  I  am  gone  back,  sunk,  dead.  Oh  what  a  work  for 
grace  to  make  such  an  one  an  heir  of  glory. 

May  the  smiles  of  heaven  attend  you  and  your  partner.  The 
Lord  bless  you  and  make  you  both  blessings.  You  will  accept 
our  united  love  and  esteem,  and  remember  us  kindly  to  your 
honored  parents  and  your  sister.  Your  friend  and  brother, 

L.  WOODS. 

P.  S. — Mr.  Spring  is  much  pleased  with  General*  Association. 
I  hear  Mr.  Litchfield  is  opposed.  The  Democratic  ministers  are 
so.  If  your  Association  won't  come  in,  you  must  for  that  purpose 
be  connected  also  with  another.  That  is  the  method  proposed. 
Think  of  it. 

From  Dr.  Spring  to  L.  Woods. 

NEWBTJRYPOBT,  August  1,  1807. 

DEAU  BROTHER, — (This  aside— while  you  read,  etc.)  "There  is  a 
lion  in  the  way,"  and  I  fear  that  my  friend  .  .  .  too  fearless  of 
danger  or  too  fearful  of  attacking  him. — There  is  a  state  of  mind 
relative  to  truth  and  error  which  is  ...  the  crisis. 

1.  Is  not  this  a  fact, — that  the  Bible  which  is  the  infallible 
guide  of  truth,  whether  we  comprehend  the  connection  or  not, 
in  all  the  commands  it  enjoins  on  sinners,  goes  manifestly  on  the 
principle  that  they,  as  we  understand  the  doctrine  of  ability,  in 
all  cases,  have  natural  ability  to  begin  to  repent  or  be  holy  ? 

2.  Now  shall  we  believe  this,  while  we  theorise,  or  shall  we 
disbelieve  it  means  as  it  says  and  make  the  Bible  bend  to  our 
theory,  or  shall  we  come  to  a  solemn  pause  and  query  whether 
we  do  not  theorise  too  fast?     Human   reason  must  not  make 
itself  the  standard,  in  opposition  to  the  open  face  of  Scripture. 

3.  Why  did  not  the  lion  leap  over  this  fence,  namely,  ought 
personal  good,  when  nothing  is  before  us  but  personal  evil  in  a 
given  case,  to  be  relinquished  for  the  general  good  ?    If  so,  is  it 
not  evident  that  the  general  good  is  the  chief  object  of  benevo- 
lence in  all  cases?  and  hence  is  personal  reward  or  personal 


498      HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

enjoyment   ever  the   supreme   object   of  benevolence  ?     If  not, 
can  the  lion  leap  the  fence  ?  and  are  we  not  safe  ? 

4  Why  will  not  the  lion  leap  this  fence  ?  Thou  shalt  love 
thy  neighbor  AS  thyself  ? 

5.  In  a  word,  is  the  lion  safe  or  shielded,  except  he  can  prove 
that  in  all  cases  whatever,  personal  good  is  the  supreme  object? 

It  is  a  fact  that  my  pleasedness  with  an  object  is  the  use,  sina 
qua  non,  of  pursuing  it,  or  an  ultimate  cause  of  pursuing  it;  but 
will  this  prove  that  the  benevolent  man  cannot  now  desire  the 
happiness  of  others  which  he  knows  .  .  .  shall  not  participate; 
which  he  believes  will  be  the  occasion  of  his  future  misery  ? 

From  yours, 

S.  SPRING. 

P.  S. — If  sinners  have  no  ability  to  repent  what  must  they  do  ? 
and  what  must  we  tell  them  while  we  use  the  Bible  for  a  text-book  ? 

Since  writing  the  letter  which  demands  all  the  candor  of  a 
friend,  my  poor  mind  has  acted  thus.  Are  sinners  who  are 
totally  depraved,  i.  e.,  destitute  of  holy  tastes,  destitute  too  of 
natural  ability  to  repent,  or  to  begin  to  be  holy?  No;  for 
thousands  of  them  have  repented,  and  found  that  they  had 
natural  ability.  For  repentance  is  activity  and  not  passivity. 
Now  I  don't  care  whether  the  Judge  restricts  the  essence  of  re- 
pentance to  taste  or  not.  For  if  taste  is  passivity  it  is  not 
repentance,  and  if  it  is  activity  or  life,  it  is  the  activity  or  the 
life  of  an  agent  who  is  able  to  be  the  subject  of  it,  or  to  put  it 
forth:  ergo,  Q.E.D.  the  sinner  if  not  the  child  of  fate,  or  a  brute 
beast,  is  a  moral  agent  and  able  to  begin  to  repent,  as  ah1  the 
commands  and  penalties  of  the  law,  and  all  the  offers  and  prom- 
ises of  the  gospel,  invariably  presuppose.  If,  in  one  word,  the 
sinner  is  unable  to  repent  or  make  a  new  heart,  the  language  of 
the  Bible  is  absurd,  and  what  is  God,  and  what  is  accountability 
but  a  delusion  ?  This  morning  I  read  the  J.  my  sermon  for  the 
H.  S.  in  which  I  define  a  miracle.  He  said  that  you  must  leave 
it.  For  there  are  no  miracles  or  events  which  exceed  the 
established  laws  or  course  of  nature.  The  illustration  is,  that 
Perkins  makes  a  machine,  which  strikes  like  a  clock,  but  as  loud 
as  thunder,  once  a  year  during  a  hundred  and  twenty-seven 
years;  then  it  sings  like  a  crow  six  times  every  January  and  once 
every  month  for  the  next  seven  hundred  years,  and  then  two 
hundred  years  on  every  Friday,  except  Good  Friday,  it  makes  a 
noise  like  a  bull:  and  fools  call  all  these  things  miracles.  But 
the  fact  is  the  machine  works  by  Perkins'  rules. 


APPENDIX.  499 

In  a  word  the  J.  supposes,  that  the  end  of  what  we  fools  call 
miracles,  is  answered  by  a  few  singular  expressions  of  Divine 
Majesty  which  take  place  in  the  order  of  nature  at  the  time  God 
appointed  to  impress  the  human  mind. 

From  Dr.  Pearson  to  Dr.  Morse. 

Aug.  22,  1807.     Saturday,  11  o'clock. 

DEAR  SIR, — On  my  return  from  Boston,  Tuesday  evening,  I 
found  that  Mr.  S.  arrived  at  my  house  at  11  A.  M.,  much  disap- 
pointed at  not  finding  me  at  home.  His  time  however  he  passed 

with  Mr.  F.  A.  N.  and  F n  till  8  P.  M.,  but  it  was  then  too 

late  for  us  to  open  on  the  great  subject,  as  he  was  engaged  to 
sleep  at  Mr.  A.'s.  Next  morning  at  nine  we  commenced  with 
prayer.  As  he  had  no  special  call  to  be  at  home  before  the  last 
of  the  week,  our  conference  was  deliberate  and  leisurely,  and 
intermixed  with  many  anecdotes  and  episodes.  Dr.  S.  displayed 
through  the  whole,  a  serious,  pious,  Christian  spirit;  less  suspi- 
cious and  fearful,  more  candid,  easy,  and  cheerful,  than  at  any 
previous  interview;  and  so  far  as  I  could  judge,  sincerely  desirous 
of  union.  Our  communications  were  free  and  open,  accompanied 
with  much  mutual  satisfaction  and  confidence.  So  far  as  I  have 
learnt,  his  visit  in  the  families  mentioned  above  has  made  favor- 
able impressions.  Last  evening  I  left  him  at  Mr.  Allen's  in  Brad- 
ford, where  he  was  to  take  the  stage  this  morning.  On  the  whole 
I  think  the  prospect  hopeful  at  present,  and  that  we  have  much 
reason  to  bless  that  Almighty  Being  who  turneth  the  hearts  of 
men,  as  the  rivers  of  water  are  turned.  Still,  however,  much 
remains  to  be  done,  and  many  difficulties  to  be  conquered.  The 
result  of  our  deliberations  I  will  enclose  if  I  have  time;  if  not, 
you  will  know  it  on  Monday,  if  you  come  to  Andover,  which  I 
think  necessary.  I  regret  the  causes  which  have  prevented  your 
writing  to  Mr.  Abbot.  A  letter  in  several  respects  would  be  more 
useful  than  conversation;  let  him  have  the  advantage  of  both, 
and  bring  the  letter  with  you.  What  I  enclose  is  for  your  eye 
alone,  as  delicacy  and  propriety,  in  this  stage  of  our  affairs,  for- 
bids all  disclosure.  Praying  for  health,  strength,  light,  and  as- 
sistance equal  to  your  multiplied  calls  and  labors, 
I  am  your  sincere,  faithful, 

E.  PEARSON. 

P.  S. — Dr.  Dwight  is  just  arrived,  and  will  wait  for  you  as  you 
desire. 


500       HISTORY  OF  ANDOVER   THEOLOGICAL   SEMINARY. 

From  Dr.  Pearson  to  Dr.  Morse. 

ANDOVEB,  Tuesday,  a.  m.,  Sept.  1,  1807. 

DEAK  SIR, — I  give  you  one  line  to  comfort  your  heart.  Provi- 
dence is  working  for  us.  Tuesday  Dr.  Dwight  left  us — same  day 
friend  Chaplin  came  and  spent  two  nights.  Wednesday  he  visited 
Esqr.  A.  Thursday  we  set  off  for  Plumb  Island.  This  gave  Mrs.  P. 
and  me  opportunity  of  sleeping  one  night  at  Mr.  Woods'  and  the 

next  at  Dr.  Spring's.    Had  some  conversation  with  Mr.  B 1.    His 

prejudices  against  Mr.  D.  are  very  strong,  and  at  present  invinci- 
ble. Saturday  Mr.  Allen  of  Bradford  called  here  and  spent  three 
hours  with  Mr.  F.  Sunday  night  he  slept  with  us.  Monday,  A.M., 
Esqr.  A.  called  and  informed  me  that  Mr.  F.  had  withdrawn  his 
opposition;  so  that  no  objection  to  his  appointment  of  — —  seems 
now  to  remain.  This  is  the  Lord's  doing;  it  is  wonderful;  let  us 
be  glad,  and  rejoice,  and  confide  in  Him,  for  He  only  doeth  won- 
drous things.  Difficulties,  however,  and  some  danger,  with  respect 
to  union,  still  remain;  sufficient  to  keep  us  dependent  and  humble. 
Much  remains  to  be  done,  and  much  wisdom,  caution,  and  Divine 
assistance  are  still  necessary.  Make  no  mention  of  the  expected 
appointment  to  any  one,  before  you  see  me.  Mr.  Farrar  is  at- 
tending court  at  Newburyport,  is  to  see  Dr.  S.,  etc.,  and  return 
to-morrow.  As  there  are  several  weighty  subjects,  on  which  J] 
wish  to  consult  you  previously  to  Trustee-meeting  on  Thursday, 
it  seems  very  desirable  that  you  come  up  to-morrow,  P.  M.,  and 
pass  the  night  with  me,  if  practicable  on  your  part.  The  times 
are  critical — every  one  will  be  fishing — we  must  for  some  time 
yet  to  come  keep  ourselves  to  ourselves — the  adversary  is  inquisi- 
tive, anxious,  artful,  pressing — sat  verbum. 

Yours  with  much  affection  and  esteem, 

E.  PEAESON. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

SALEM,  Sept.  13,  1807. 

BELOVED  SIR, — All  looks  bright.  I  long  to  see  you.  Have 
not  had  time  to  write.  You  must  use  all  your  influence  to  pre- 
vent suspicion  and  difficulty  on  your  side.  Mr.  S.  will  do  nobly. 
He  and  I  are  going  to  be  very  happy  again.  Give  them  what 
they  want  at  the  outset,  if  they  are  reasonable.  There  will  be  no 
danger.  All  will  be  quiet.  A  little  experience  and  co-operation 
will  remove  all  jealousy.  If  we  can  only  get  together,  what  can 
we  not  do  ?  0  what  a  prospect  I  Do  write  soon  to  your  most 
ardent  friend, 

L.  WOODS. 


APPENDIX.  501 

From  Dr.  Church  to  Mr.  Norris. 

NEWBUEYPOET,  Sept.  15,  1807. 

DEAR  SIR, — Our  late  interview  was  so  agreeable  to  me,  that 
I  am  desirous  of  addressing  to  you  a  few  lines.  You  will  peruse 
them,  I  trust,  in  the  exercise  of  candor  and  friendship.  It  is 
highly  pleasing  to  enjoy  the  friendship  of  the  pious  and  benevo- 
lent; and  it  is  an  honor  to  be  permitted,  in  even  so  small  a  degree, 
to  co-operate  with  them  in  promoting  the  cause  of  truth.  I  am 
happy  to  find  that  this  cause  so  deeply  engages  the  feelings  of 
your  heart.  Thanks  be  to  God  that  you  enjoy  the  means  of  ex- 
tensively communicating  to  perishing  sinners  the  knowledge  of 
Him  who  died  for  their  salvation.  The  good  which  may  result 
to  the  souls  of  men  from  your  contemplated  Institution  is  incal- 
culable. Your  design  embraces  the  eternal  interests  of  many, 
and  of  very  many  yet  unborn.  Nothing  of  equal  magnitude  and 
importance  has  been  contemplated  in  America.  Hence  every 
pious  mind,  that  is  acquainted  with  your  object,  must  pray  that 
you,  dear  sir,  and  the  other  respected  Donors,  may  be  peculiarly 
favored  with  wisdom  from  above.  Many  of  the  friends  of  evangeli- 
cal truth,  are  hoping  and  praying  that  your  Institution  will  unite 
and  combine  the  best  Christian  influence  through  New  England. 
An  Institution  of  this  kind  is  greatly  needed  in  this  day  of  abound- 
ing error  and  iniquity.  Scarce  anything  gives  the  enemies  of  the 
truth  greater  advantage  than  the  want  of  union  among  its  friends. 
When  such  exertions  are  made  to  subvert  the  gospel,  our  Calvin- 
istic  churches  through  New  England,  and  even  through  the  United 
States,  greatly  need  a  pious  and  orthodox  Seminary  to  supply  them  with 
learned  and  faithful  Pastors,  who  shall  feed  them  with  knowledge  and 
understanding,  and  form  the  minds  of  the  youth  to  virtue  and  piety 
May  such  an  inestimable  blessing  soon  be  realized. 

Do  not  be  discouraged,  dear  sir,  if  you  find  trials  and  difficul- 
ties, or  experience  unexpected  delays.  These  things  will  not  be 
contrary  to  the  experience  of  God's  people,  when  they  have  had 
in  view  the  advancement  of  His  kingdom.  God  sometimes  dis- 
concerts the  plans  they  had  formed  with  very  pleasing  expecta- 
tions, and  then  directs  their  thoughts  to  plans  of  more  extensive 
utility.  His  ways  and  thoughts  are  above  ours.  When  we  look 
very  confidently  for  the  prosperity  of  His  cause  in  one  particular 
way,  which  appears  very  promising  to  us,  He  most  successfully 
builds  up  His  kingdom  in  another.  And  when  we  think  that  our 
designs  and  plans  will  all  miscarry,  then  He  promotes  the  pious 
object  we  have  in  view,  in  a  way  far  better  than  we  could  have 


502       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY., 

devised.  This  increases  our  admiration  of  His  wisdom  and  good- 
ness, and  promotes  our  humility  and  gratitude.  It  leads  us  to 
trust  more  simply  in  the  Lord,  and  to  look  for  His  blessing  on 
our  exertions.  How  desirable,  how  happy  is  such  a  frame  of 
mind! 

May  you,  dear  sir,  enjoy  the  special  direction  and  smiles  of 
heaven  in  everything  you  may  attempt  for  the  prosperity  of  Zion. 
May  the  church  of  Christ  enjoy  the  whole  .benefit  of  your  Chris- 
tian influence.  May  you  hereafter  meet  many  in  the  paradise  of 
God,  who  shall  ascribe  their  salvation,  under  the  influence  of 
Divine  grace,  to  your  active  and  diffusive  benevolence. 

Should  it  not  interfere  with  your  more  important  concerns,  I 
should  be  highly  gratified  in  receiving  from  you  a  letter.  There 
is  a  Post  Office  in  Pelham,  N.  H.,  so  that  a  letter  may  come  to  me 
by  the  mail. 

Be  pleased  to  present  my  respects  to  Mrs.  N  orris.  May  you 
long  be  eminent  blessings  to  each  other. 

Permit  me,  dear  sir,  to  subscribe  myself, 

Your  friend  and  humble  servant, 

JOHN  H.  CHURCH. 

From  Mr.  Norris  to  Dr.  Church. 

SALEM,  Sept.  21,  1807. 

KEV.  AND  DEAR  SIR, — I  received  your  kind  letter  and  carefully 
perused  it,  I  hope  with  some  sensible  feelings  in  the  great  and 
good  things  respecting  our  Institution  which  you  so  feelingly 
mention  and  for  which  I  sincerely  thank  you. 

It  is  not  only  very  pleasing,  but  a  great  blessing  and  a  com- 
fort to  enjoy  the  friendship  of  the  pious,  but  more  especially  to 
be  indulged  with  the  particular  friendship  and  the  tender  advice 
of  pious  and  faithful  ministers,  in  the  cause  and  gospel  of  Christ. 
Our  great  and  good  Institution  has  had  much  weight  on  my 
mind,  and  when  I  reflect  in  the  first  instance,  on  the  Providential 
occurrences,  and  the  path  in  which  we  have  been  led  ever  since, 
I  cannot  say  but  I  have  great  doubts  and  fears  as  to  the  present 
contemplated  plan  of  union. — It  plainly  appears  to  me  according 
to  the  Incorporating  Act  of  Andover  Academy,  that  the  present 
Board  of  Visitors  and  Trustees,  as  the  Act  expressly  says,  are,  and  will 
be,  the  sole  Visitors,  Trustees  and  Governors  in  perpetual  succes- 
sion forever,  and  so  they  ought  to  be.  How  then  can  we  super- 
sede or  control  these  sole  Visitors,  by  appointing  a  Board  of 
Visitors  for  our  Institution  ?  As  we  come  in  under  their  Act  of 


APPENDIX.  503 

Incorporation,  our  Board  of  Visitors  can  have  no  power  of  con- 
trol over  the  law  that  has  made  them  the  sole  Visitors.  For  we 
come  under  their  care  and  direction,  for  protection  in  their  priv- 
ileges, and  to  enjoy  the  benefits  of  their  Incorporating  Act. 
Therefore  it  appears  to  me,  they  must  in  all  respects  be  the  sole 
Visitors  and  Trustees; — they  cannot  be  brought  under  the  con- 
trol of  our  Visitors,  because  their  Act  has  guarded  against  it 
carefully,  and  vests  all  the  powers  in  themselves  as  sole  Visitors, 
Trustees  and  Governors  forever. 

I  do  not  (call  in  question,  nor)  pretend  to  say,  that  the 
present  Trustees  of  Andover  Academy  are  not  good  men;  but 
this  I  say,  I  cannot  give  up  the  privilege  of  electing  such  friends 
of  truth  for  our  Institution,  as  I  am  willing  to  trust  the  cause  of 
truth  with,  together  with  the  Institution.  I  have  many  more 
things  to  say,  but  in  the  present  stage  of  the  business,  I  feel  it 
a  duty  to  be  silent.  I  pray  .God  that  we  may  be  directed  to 
do  that  which  will  be  for  His  own  glory.  Accept  my  sincere 
thanks  for  your  kind  letter,  and  believe  me  to  be  with  the  greatest 
respect,  dear  and  Rev.  Sir,  yours  affectionately, 

JOHN  NORRIS. 

P.  S. — Our  love  and  respects  to  Mrs.  Church  and  your  family 
It  will  always  be  very  gratifying  to  me  to  receive  a  line  from  you. 
Oh  my  dear  sir,  it  is  a  great  thing  to  do  right  and  act  right. 
We  must  commit  all  to  God,  do  duty,  and  leave  events  to  Him. 
Shall  we  have  your  approbation  if  we  submit  our  Institution 
to  the  Trustees  of  Andover  Academy,  and  we  and  our  friends 
have  nothing  to  do  with  the  management,  nor  have  any  control 
over  it  ? 

From  L.  Woods  to  Samuel  Farrar. 

NEWBUKT,  Sept.  21,  1807. 

DEAR  SIR. — The  present  state  of  things  is  very  critical  and 
interesting.  A  task  now  devolves  upon  you  and  your  Associates, 
which  I  hope  will  be  executed  with  wisdom  and  success.  My 
mind  is  constantly  filled  with  the  great  affair;  and  as  I  know  not 
that  I  shall  see  you  soon,  I  can  hardly  deny  myself  the  relief  and 
the  pleasure  of  disclosing  to  you  my  inmost  thoughts  and  feel- 
ings. I  doubt  not  but  every  idea  of  importance  has  occurred  to 
you  and  to  Dr.  P.  But  as  I  cannot  avoid  the  apprehension,  that 
there  will  be  some  obstacle  to  union  on  your  side,  I  take  the 
liberty  to  open  to  you  the  workings  of  my  own  mind  on  the  sub- 


504      HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

ject;  which  I  shall  do  without  study,  and  without  form. — When  I 
speak  of  union,  I  now  mean  upon  the  principles  lately  agreed 
upon  by  Dr.  P.  and  Mr.  S. 

1.  The  principle  of  justice  and  equality  may  have  weight  in 
this  case.     If  these  Donors  furnish  an  equal  or  superior  part  of 
the  whole  fund,  they  ought  to  share  equal  rights.     If  they  es- 
tablish two  Professorships,  that  may  be  called  forty  thousand  dol- 
lars; add  twelve  scholarships,  and  call  it  at  least  twenty  thousand 
more;  add  twenty  thousand   for   Library;— total,   $80,000.     My 
calculation  is  not  less  than  this,  if  things  are  managed  happily. 
It  will  not  do  to  speak  this  language ;  but  my  contemplations  are 
free  from  doubt.     In  this  view  I  am  satisfied  that  what  they  will 
require,  as  to  influence  in  elections,  etc.,  etc.,  will  be  no  more  than 
equitable ;  yea,  even  supposing  my  calculation  a  little  too  high. 

2.  If  they  are  refused,   all  this  fund  will  be  lost  as  to  the 
Seminary,  and  the  Donors  will  most  certainly  feel  themselves  free 
from  all  obligation  to  contribute  in  any  other  way.     Their  inten- 
tion and  promise  to  do  "  something  handsome,"  went  upon  a 
principle,  which,  in  case  they  are  rejected,  will  cease  to  operate. 
And, 

3.  If  they  are  refused,  every  possible  effort  will  be  used  to  rise 
above  the    Seminary.     Emulation   is   one   of  the    most   powerful, 
though  not  one  of  the  most  laudable  of  all  principles.     Even  all 
that  which  I  have  hoped  would  be  accomplished  in  connection  (as 
to  College)  will  very  probably  be  attempted  in  a  separate  way. 
I  am  confident  there  would  be  no  want  of  property,  or  of  zeal. 
To  what  such  efforts,  upon  such  principles,  would  lead,  it  is  not 
possible  to  say. 

4.  The  principles  upon  which  the  Donors  are  now  willing  to 
come  to  Andover,  are  no  more  than  what  have  been  offered  to 
them   from   the    beginning.     They   have    been    constantly   told, 
"come  in  your  own  way,  make  your  own  rules;  bring  your  own 
Professors  and  students,"  etc.     The  fairness  of  these  proposals 
has  been  known,  and  has  laid  the  foundation  for  such  a  sentiment 
in  the  Christian  community,  especially  among  orthodox  ministers, 
that  great  reproach  would  have  fallen  upon  them  for  separation. 
If  these  principles  should  now  be  rejected,  new  representations 
will  be  made,  the  general  sentiment  will  be  changed,  and  the  re- 
proach of  separation  will  fall  on  the  other  side. 

5.  The  union  which  I  contemplate  is  a  cordial  and  entire  union. 
There  must  indeed  be  time  for  it.     Prejudices  must  be  weak- 
ened, and  mutual  suspicions  removed.     But  I  have  no  doubt  this 
will  be  done;  gradually,  indeed,  but  in  the  end  effectually.     You 


APPENDIX.  505 

have  often  observed,  what  I  have  long  entertained  as  a  favorite 
opinion,  that  there  is  no  difference  of  sentiment  or  feeling,  which 
should  keep  Old  Calvinists  and  Hopkinsians  from  the  most  cordial 
and  perfect  co-operation  and  harmony.  Let  them  come  together, 
and  act  together,  and  they  will  soon  find  that  they  are  one. 
Jealousy  and  party  spirit  will  die  away,  and  they  will  become  one 
complete  and  irresistible  host.  The  motions  of  Providence  seem  to 
be  tending  to  such  a  blessed  state.  The  united  Institution  would, 
I  believe,  be  a  most  powerful  means  of  hastening  it  on.  Three 
years  would  do  much.  The  first  arrangements,  it  is  hoped,  will 
be  altogether  upon  a  plan  that  will  be  mutually  satisfactory.  If 
conciliatory  methods  are  adopted  by  your  side,  the  others  will 
not  be  outdone. 

Whether  the  three  Donors,  or  their  contemplated  Board  of 
Visitors,  are  considered,  there  is  no  doubt  of  the  most  fair,  kind, 
and  acceptable  measures  being  adopted.  A  little  jealousy  may 
appear  in  some  at  the  beginning,  but  will  not  last.  It  is,  I  think, 
a  true  character  of  Hopkinsians  (though  I  have  not  heard  it  ap- 
plied) that  they  cannot  be  conquered  by  opposition,  but  are  easily 
softened  and  made  candid  by  kind  Christian  treatment.  The  first 
class  of  students  will,  in  all  probability,  be  of  such  a  complexion, 
in  point  of  theological  sentiment  and  character,  as  to  afford  pleas- 
ure, satisfaction,  and  hope  to  both  sides.  They  will  be  serious, 
thoroughly  and  firmly  orthodox,  well  informed  and  zealous,  but 
prudent  and  inoffensive.  By  thaftime  everything  will  be  done  in 
concert.  Every  measure  which  concerns  the  joint  Institution  will 
be  executed  with  mutual  consultation.  And  each  part,  when 
called  to  act  alone,  will  have  as  much  regard  to  the  feelings  of  the 
other  part  as  fidelity  will  psrmit.  Such  harmony  may  be  pretty 
confidently  expected  if  the  first  arrangements,  and  especially  the 
first  elections,  can  be  made  to  mutual  satisfaction.  That  this  may 
be  done  I  have  no  doubt.  Respecting  the  feelings  of  several  who 
are  talked  of  as  Visitors,  I  wish  to  say  more  than  I  can  now  write. 
They  are  among  the  most  candid  and  inoffensive  characters.  I 
wish  to  enlarge  likewise  on  the  subject  of  elections.  The  men 
who  have  been  mentioned  by  Mr.  S.  for  the  third  Professor  are 
such  as  would  be  peculiarly  acceptable  to  you  and  your  associates. 

6.  If  they  are  rejected,  the  General  Association  cannot  be  ex- 
pected to  support  the  Seminary.  The  strength  of  that  body  to 
this  moment  is  in  the  hands  of  men  who  are  called  Hopkinsians, 
though  mild,  prudent,  and  candid  men.  If  objections  to  union 
from  your  part  should  prevail,  the  most  vigorous  and  probably 
effectual  measures  would  be  taken  to  secure  the  patronage  of  that 


506       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

body  on  the  other  side.  I  shudder  at  the  thought  of  the  dread- 
ful warfare  which  must  ensue.  But  how  pleasing,  how  bright  the 
prospect  if  the  union  can  be  consummated.  Then  the  General 
Association  will  act  in  unison  with  the  Seminary.  The  Seminary 
will  combine,  it  must  combine,  the  whole  Christian  orthodox  influ- 
ence of  the  community.  And  everything  ought  to  be  done  upon 
that  principle,  especially  in  the  outset. 

7.  I  have  not  yet  urged  what  we  hope  the  Donors  will  do 
towards  the  other  object,  which,  in  connection  with  this  and  in 
subserviency  to  it,  is  highly  important.  Within  three  years  a 
College  may  be  established.  A  fund  for  two  or  three  officers  would 
be  enough  to  begin  with.  The  Professors  at  the  Seminary  might 
do  part.  At  Andover,  I  hope,  there  will  be  what,  may,  with  pe- 
culiar propriety,  be  called  University,  Academy,  College,  and  Semi- 
nary. All  the  property  of  the  church  will  form  a  complete  system. 
At  Harvard  College  there  is  loud  murmuring,  and  reproach,  and 
imprecation.  A  tutor  has  lately  said  he  hoped  in  all  mercy  the 
union  would  not  take  place,  and  hoped  both  would  fail,  that  all 
should  come  into  the  channel  at  Harvard.  Excuse  these  nights. 
God  will  execute  His  own  benevolent  designs.  The  infinite  good 
which  will  result  from  the  union  to  the  cause  of  religion  and  the 
evils  of  disunion  have  been  much  talked  of,  but  never,  I  appre- 
hend, fully  described  or  conceived.  They  are  beyond  conception 
great. 

Queries. — Will  it  not  be  desirable  that  your  Board  be  enlarged 
if  such  men  can  be  obtained  as  will  have  the  confidence  of  both 
sides?  Will  it  not  be  wise  to  have  the  friends  of  the  union  in 
your  Board  thoroughly  prepared  for  action  before  the  question 
is  brought  forward  ?  Will  it  not  be  best  for  the  Board  to  defer 
the  choice  of  Dr.  P.,  as  he  will  undoubtedly  be  nominated  and 
supported  by  our  Donors  upon  the  plan  which  has  been  men- 
tioned ?  Though  perhaps  what  your  Board  would  do  might  not 
prevent  what  our  Donors  would  wish. 

I  hope,  beloved  sir,  you  will  not  have  an  idea  that  I  think  it 
necessary  to  suggest  these  things.  I  write  because  I  am  full,  and 
find  it  a  satisfaction  to  open  my  heart  to  a  dear  and  confidential 
friend.  Let  all  I  have  written  be  sub  rosa.  Let  it  not  be  known 
that  I  have  written,  lest  a  wrong  construction  should  be  put  upon 
it.  I  should  have  gone  to  A.  to-day  had  I  not  wished  to  avoid 
the  appearance. 

The  prospect  is  more  and  more  bright.  I  review  what  is  past 
with  admiration.  How  has  Providence  directed  and  overruled 
everything.  How  have  those  events  which  seemed  most  contrary 


APPENDIX.  507 

to  union  been  made  use  of  to  bring  forward  a  better  mode  of 
union  than  would  have  been  possible  at  any  former  time  ?  The 
hand  of  God  is  very  visible.  I  look  forward  to  the  united  Insti- 
tution, and  contemplate  the  probable  course  of  events  with  ele- 
vated hope,  and  even  with  rapture.  The  opulent  Donors  will,  I 
think,  do  worthily.  I  am  particularly  acquainted  with  their  do- 
mestic circumstances.  They  are  shut  up  to  a  benevolent  use  of 
their  wealth.  The  Institution  will  be  their  dear  child.  We  have 
much  to  do,  and  much  to  pray  for.  Among  other  things,  let  us 
not  forget  to  pray  that  our  opulent  Mends  may  have  long  life  and 
prosperity,  and  that  God  would  enlarge  their  hearts,  and  dispose 
them  to  consecrate  all  to  the  Redeemer's  honor  and  cause. 

Earnestly  wishing  to  see  you,  and  asking  God's  gracious  direc- 
tion for  you  and  all  concerned  in  this  great  object,  I  subscribe, 
dear  sir,  your  sincere  friend  and  servant, 

LEONARD  WOODS. 

P.  S. — I  have  not  had  time  to  write  particularly  to  Dr.  Morse. 
I  trust  he  is  informed  of  the  present  state  of  things.  There  is 
one  matter  respecting  him  which  I  wish  for  opportunity  to 
propose. 

• 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBUET,  Sept.  30,  1807. 

MY  DEARLY  BELOVED  SIR, — I  have  never  felt  so  strong  an  incli- 
nation to  see  you  and  to  write  to  you  as  of  late.  To  see  you  I  have 
not  been  able,  and  when  I  have  set  apart  time  to  write,  I  have  not 
known  where  to  begin;  such  a  world  of  matter  has  pressed,  that 
I  have  laid  it  aside,  not  however  without  the  full  belief,  that  every- 
thing of  importance  has  been  communicated  to  you  by  Dr.  Pearson 
and  others.  Oh,  sir,  what  a  time  we  have  had  since  I  saw  you ! 
I  have  felt  myself  in  most  critical  and  responsible  circumstances. 
I  have  steadily  kept  union  in  view.  That  dear  object  has  not 
been  overlooked  one  moment.  Every  measure  has  been  shaped 
to  secure  it.  Everything  has  been  made  subservient  to  it.  I 
have  been  constantly  watching  to  see  what  dangers  remain,  what 
difficulties  are  to  be  removed,  what  advantages  may  be  gained, 
and  how  those  already  gained  may  be  secured.  When  I  have 
found  anything  for  me  to  do  I  have  done  it  without  delay.  My 
great  difficulty  has  been  to  hold  back,  so  as  not  to  do  too  much. 
While  I  have  been  attempting  something,  according  to  my  abil- 
ity, how  much  more  has  been  done  by  others,  particularly  by 


508      HISTORY  OF  ANDOVER   THEOLOGICAL   SEMINARY. 

Dr.  Pearson,  for  whom  I  have  an  affection  and  esteem  con- 
stantly growing.  And  how  visible  has  been  the  hand  of  God  in 
all.  God  has  appeared  to  direct  and  bless  every  measure.  He 
is  to  be  most  devoutly  acknowledged.  It  is  His  cause,  and  He 
will  doubtless  give  success.  Oh,  what  a  glorious  object  is  in  con- 
templation! It  is  astonishing  that  every  Christian  heart  is  not 
charmed  with  it.  How  much  it  is  to  be  lamented,  that  orthodox 
sentiments  are  in  so  many  instances  united  with  heterodox  feel- 
ings. What  is  more  inconsistent  with  the  truth  than  low,  con- 
tracted, partial  feelings,  a  sectarian  spirit,  groundless  suspicions 
and  surmises,  etc. 

The  present  cloud  will  soon  pass  over.  From  the  beginning 
there  has  been  a  constant  interchange  of  bright  and  cloudy  days. 
Esqr.  Farrar  will  tell  you  Mr.  Norris'  difficulty.  I  am  clear  that 
it  can  be  removed.  It  ought  to  be  attended  to  soon,  lest  it  should 
through  time  become  deep-rooted.  I  hope  Dr.  P.  will  be  along 
next  week.  The  three  Donors  all  say,  they  wish  to  go  to  Andover 
and  unite,  if  a  safe  way  can  be  devised.  They  will  go  upon  the 
other  plan,  if  not  upon  the  Visitatorial.  That  would  be  infinitely 
better  than  disunion.  Indeed  I  see  not  why  most  of  the  solid 
advantages  of  union  may  not  be  obtained  in  that  way,  as  well  as 
in  any  other.  Although  there  is,  it  must  be  confessed,  an  ad- 
ditional beauty,  and  I  think  safety  in  the  Visitatorial  scheme. 
Even  Mr.  Norris  says  he  will  go  to  Andover  with  all  his  heart. 

I  am  not  by  any  means  discouraged,  but  I  should  be,  did  I 
not  consider  what  God  has  done,  and  did  I  not  confide  in  His 
power  and  wisdom.  'Tis  easy  for  Him  to  manage  the  greatest  con- 
cerns. I  am  tired  of  the  subtle  plots  and  workings  of  men.  God's 
ways  are  all  uprightness  and  truth. 

What  you  will  do  to-morrow  I  know  not.  But  I  have  the  com- 
fort to  believe,  no  measures  will  be  adopted  which  will  impede  union 
in  any  form.  As  I  have  thought  before,  I  think  now,  that  com- 
ing together  in  any  way,  living  together,  teaching  together,  acting 
together,  having  only  one  house,  one  Institution  (though  com- 
prising perhaps  different  branches,  and  different  boards),  this 
would  bring  on  a  greater  and  greater  union; — would  prepare  the 
way  for  any  measures  promotive  of  the  cause  of  love  and  truth. 

I  must  see  you.  If  God  permit,  I  will  go  to  Charlestown  next 
week;  especially  if  this  perplexity  remain.  I  may  go  through  An- 
dover. I  may  be  at  Dr.  P.'s  Monday  night,  and  at  your  house  Tues- 
day noon.  I  have  done  nothing  for  Panoplist.  My  apology  must  be 
found  in  the  course  of  events.  Indeed,  sir,  I  have  had  no  time, 
and  no  thoughts,  for  anything  but  one.  If  I  had  complied  with  their 


APPENDIX.  509 

pressing  request,  I  should  have  had  students  before  now.  I  thank 
the  Great  Disposer,  that  He  has  kept  me  back,  and  turned  my 
heart  to  the  best  of  all  objects.  It  is  my  earnest  desire  to  return 
to  my  labors  with  you.  The  Panoplist  is  dear  to  me.  You,  sir, 
are  more  and  more  dear  to  me — more  and  more  necessary  to  my 
happiness.  I  feel  gratitude  and  joy  when  I  review  our  happy 
friendship.  The  Lord  help  you  along;  give  you  health  and  long 
life,  and  make  you  a  more  and  more  extensive  blessing  to  His 
church.  Remember  us  very*  affectionately  to  Mrs.  Morse,  to 
Madam  B.  and  her  daughter,  and  the  rest  of  your  dear  family.  I 
am,  dear  sir, 

Yours  with  sincerity, 

L.  WOODS. 

P.  S. — I  wish  Dr.  Dwight  could  converse  with  Messrs.  B.  and 
B.  and  N.  on  his  return,  particularly  the  latter.  Can't  you  re- 
quest it  by  a  letter  sent  on  by  stage  to  Mr.  Spring. 

I  have  received  your  packet  from  Whipple's,  containing  en- 
couraging, animating  things. 

From  Dr.  Spring  to  Df.  Morse. 

NEWBUBTPOKT,  Oct.  3,  1807. 

DEAR  SIR, — The  Associates  have  been  together  at  Newburyport. 
They  never  were  more  firmly  united.  They  never  understood 
themselves,  each  other,  and  you  and  the  great  subject  so  well  as 
at  present.  A  Theological  Institution  they  are  most  decidedly  en- 
gaged to  establish  and  support.  Funds  are  not  wanting.  Gov. 
Phillips  in  his  Act  of  Incorporation  which  Mr.  Norris  brought  me 
has  taught  them  to  place  their  Foundation  under  no  mortal  what- 
ever except  a  Board  of  their  own  electing.  They  will  be  as  inde- 
pendent of  any  other  power  as  the  Andover  Academy.  They  de- 
cline accepting  the  report  because  they  do  not  believe  the  Trus- 
tees can  consistently  with  your  Incorporating  Act  delegate  the 
right  which  must  be  realised. 

But,  sir,  while  they  decline  at  present  to  unite  on  the  Visita- 
torial system  which  they  fear  some  future  Board  of  Trustees  will 
nullify  by  appealing  to  the  Phillips  Act,  it  is  my  opinion  they  will 
unite  to  go  " as  we  are"  with  our  own  Institution.  It  is  also  my 
opinion  that  to  insist  at  present  on  any  other  union  will  frustrate 
the  design.  And  pray  why  shall  we  not  kill  the  jealous  monster  by 
settling  down  upon  the  SAME  SITE  together,  to  reciprocate  hearts 
and  all  the  advantages  of  the  Seminary.  Who  can  desire  more 


510      HISTORY  OF  ANDOVER   THEOLOGICAL   SEMINARY. 

than  to  see  the  students  enjoying  the  theological  feast  alter- 
nately in '  each  others'  departments.  I  believe,  considering  the 
heterogeneous  material  on  hand,  that  it  is  in  vain  to  attempt  any 
other  plan.  To  be  fierce  for  union  is  not  the  road  to  complete 
amalgamation.  I  suggest  these  thoughts  with  freedom  and  con- 
fidence. We  must  not  perplex  the  Associates.  They  will  do  right, 
if  wrong  measures  with  them  be  omitted,  by  those  who  mean 
to  steer  ship.  I  have  some  reason  to  fear,  that  too  much  individ- 
ual liberty  has  been  taken.  But  when  I  say  this,  I  always  "  Hanc 
veniampatemusque  damusque  vicissim." 

The  object  magnifies  before  me  every  moment.  I  survey  it, 
that  is,  all  the  while  I  am  awake.  Ten  to  one  if  I  do  not  in  some 
extemporaneous  fit,  preach  out  the  Constitution  or  the  Visitatorial 
system,  or  touch  on  the  advantages  and  disadvantages  of  amalga- 
mation, as  I  sometimes  sing,  as  Dr.  Bliss  used  to  whistle,  while 
walking  the  streets.  Please  accept  and  make  love  from  your  friend 
and  brother, 

S.  SPUING. 

From  Dr.  Church  to  Mr.  Nor r is. 

PELHAM,  N.  H.,  Oct.  12,  1807. 

DEAR  SIB, — As  it  respects  your  pious  desires,  and  the  cause  of 
truth,  I  deeply  regret  that  so  many  hindrances  occur  in  establish- 
ing your  Theological  Institution.  I  trust  however  that  all  these 
things  will  be  overruled  for  good.  But  when  we  have  an  object 
in  view,  which  appears  very  important  and  dear  to  our  hearts, 
it  is  painful  to  experience  delays.  We  are  apt  to  forget  the  ne- 
cessity of  a  waiting  and  praying  season.  We  earnestly  wish  to 
realise  immediately  the  pleasing  object  of  our  desires.  I  think  I 
feel  for  you  and  also  for  your  worthy  and  respected  Associates  at 
Newburyport.  It  will  be  very  painful  to  me  should  Dr.  Spring  or 
either  of  the  Donors  be  blamed  by  any  of  the  friends  of  evangel- 
ical truth,  if  a  union  with  the  Andover  trust  should  not  take  place. 
Your  reputation,  and  the  reputation  of  your  Associates,  is  very 
dear  to  me.  I  have  endeavored  repeatedly  to  make  it  appear  fair 
and  honorable  for  you,  should  the  union  fail,  by  showing  the  rea- 
sons of  your  decision.  But  here  I  beg  leave,  dear  sir,  to  suggest 
a  thought.  And  your  reputation  is  my  principal  motive  in  sug- 
gesting it.  I  wish  you  to  pay  no  more  attention  to  it  than  it  may 
deserve.  As  you  make  the  Act  of  Incorporation,  a  great  reason 
for  declining  a  union,  I  would  suggest,  whether  it  be  not  expe- 
dient that  some  eminent  law  characters  be  consulted.  Perhaps 


APPENDIX.  511 

this  has  been  done.  If  it  has  not,  I  would  ask  whether  you  could 
not  consult  Mr.  Strong,  the  late  governor,  by  letter  or  otherwise 
on  this  matter.  I  find  by  conversing  with  a  gentleman  in  An- 
dover,  one  of  the  Trustees,  that  he  is  not  fully  satisfied  that  the 
Act  of  Incorporation  does  present  such  a  great  difficulty  against 
union.  He  thinks  if  this  be  the  case,  you  ought  to  consult  some 
law  characters  on  the  subject.  It  is  also  his  opinion  that  the 
Additional  Act  will  help  to  remove  the  difficulty. 

I  am  free  to  declare  in  every  circle,  that  I  am  decidedly  against 
a  union,  unless  it  can  be  entirely  safe,  and  honorable  for  you. 
But  the  more  I  converse  with  different  gentlemen  on  the  subject, 
the  more  I  am  impressed  with  the  importance  of  union,  if  it  can 
be  effected  to  your  satisfaction.  Should  the  union  finally  fail  in 
every  form,  I  earnestly  wish  that  no  blame  may  justly  attach 
to  you  or  either  of  your  worthy  Associates;  but  that  your  deci- 
sion may  bear  the  strictest  investigation.  My  heart  has  all  along 
been  far  more  with  you,  than  with  the  Andover  Associates.  To 
your  contemplated  Institution,  I  have  confidently  looked  to  de- 
fend and  maintain  the  cause  of  truth. 

Should  you  in  any  way  fail  of  realizing  your  pious  design,  it 
would  be  very  painful  to  my  heart. 

Should  you  consult  any  gentleman  of  the  law,  on  what  I  have 
mentioned,  I  would  wish  that  he  would  take  a  full  view  of  the 
subject  in  all  its  bearings  and  in  eyery  attitude.  Both  the  Com- 
mon Law  and  the  late  Additional  Act,  a's  well  as  the  Act  of  Incor- 
poration, I  wish  to  have  carefully  examined.  Perhaps  if  Mr. 
Strong,  or  some  other  gentleman  of  the  law,  in  whom  you  can 
confide,  could  be  with  you  at  Salem,  or  Newburyport,  or  Andover, 
it  might  be  of  great  utility  in  this  momentous  business.  Presi- 
dent Dwight,  you  observed,  was  candid  in  saying  that  union  was 
desirable  and  important,  if  it  could  be  safely  effected.  This  must 
be  submitted  to  gentlemen  of  the  law.  This  he  would  not  under- 
take to  determine. 

I  wish  not  to  say  or  do  anything,  which  shall  in  the  least  re- 
tard your  operations.  I  wish  the  way  may  be  prepared  for  you 
to  proceed  as  soon  as  possible,  and  accomplish  your  benevolent 
design. 

It  seems  the  gentlemen  at  Andover  have  agreeable  prospects. 
Certain  persons,  I  am  informed,  have  already  obligated  them- 
selves to  erect  and  finish  at  their  own  expense,  the  suitable  buildings 
for  a  Theological  Seminary.  These  are  to  be  completed  as  soon 
as  circumstances  will  admit.  I  hope  much  will  then  be  done  to 
favor  Zion. 


512       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

I  am  sorry  you  find  so  many  embarrassments.  The  ways  of 
heaven  seem,  in  this  instance,  a  little  mysterious.  It  must  be  thus 
ordered  for  some  wise  purpose.  Let  us  trust  God's  word:  "  Com- 
mit thy  works  unto  the  Lord,  and  thy  thoughts  shall  be  established." 
Light,  I  trust,  will  yet  arise,  and  that  you  will  see  the  happy  issue 
of  all  your  present  delays  and  embarrassments.  Persevere,  my 
dear  sir,  and  the  Lord  will  direct  and  prosper  you. 

Mrs.  Church  joins  me  in  presenting  our  Christian  salutations 
to  you,  dear  sir,  and  your  worthy  partner. 

Yours  with  sentiments  of  esteem, 

JOHN  H.  CHURCH. 

P.  S. — It  may  facilitate  the  conveyance  of  a  letter  to  me  to 
direct  it  to  be  sent  by  the  way  of  Boston  and  Billerica. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBUBT,  Oct.  22,  1807. 

EEV.  AND  DEAR  SIR, — Dr.  Spring  did  not  return  from  Andover 
before  the  middle  of  the  day.  Consequently  I  could  not  write 
a  letter,  according  to  your  direction,  to  be  put  in  post-office  to- 
day. Dr.  S.  was  in  haste,  to  attend  a  catechising,  and  could  not 
wait  for  a  letter.  Perhaps  this  may  reach  you  at  New  Haven. 
I  wish  it  may;  for  I  know  the  anxiety  arising  from  delay  of  in- 
formation in  this  great  affair.  What  I  now  have  to  communicate 
is  better  than  I  feared,  though  not  quite  so  good  as  I  hopted.  Dr. 
P.  and  Dr.  S.  have  prepared  about  a  dozen  articles,  containing 
principles  and  conditions  of  coalition.  Those  principles  and  con- 
ditions will,  I  have  no  doubt,  meet  your  approbation.  Dr.  P. 
signified  to  Dr.  S.  this  morning,  as  they  parted,  that  the  above- 
mentioned  principles  and  conditions,  were  not  half  of  what  was 
necessary.  They  are  to  be  together  again  soon,  probably  next 
week.  I  believe  Dr.  P.  and  Mr.  Farrar  have  considerable  satis- 
faction in  what  is  done,  though  they  have  a  strong  predilection 
for  the  visitatorial  system.  That  system  is  not  forgotten.  Dr.  S. 
would  make  no  difficulty  about  it,  were  it  not  for  Mr.  N  orris.  It 
is  deeply  impressed  on  my  mind,  that  the  best  way  to  get  upon 
that  system,  is  to  show  a  readiness  to  coalesce  in  any  proper  way, 
and  to  attend  with  patience  and  candor  to  any  mode  of  union, 
which  they  may  propose.  This  will  tend,  I  should  hope,  to  pro- 
duce several  good  consequences. 

First,  it  will  prevent  the  growth  of  suspicion  on  their  side. 
After  they  have  been  so  often  told  that  they  may  come  in,  in 


APPENDIX.  513 

any  way  they  choose,  etc.,  if  they  should  see  different  feelings 
manifested,  they  would  be  very  apt  to  take  an  improper  alarm, 
and  give  up  the  idea  of  union.  The  condescending,  healing, 
uniting  spirit,  which  you  and  your  associates  have  showed,  has 
done  much  towards  melting  their  hearts,  and  preparing  them  to 
harmonize.  If  you  persevere  in  this  good,  this  heavenly  way,  the 
effect  may  be  most  glorious;  and  you  will  have  the  honor  of 
being  one  of  the  chief  instruments  of  preventing  evil  and  doing 
good. 

Secondly,  the  door  of  union  will  thus  be  kept  open,  and 
the  door  shut  against  a  world  of  evils  from  without.  As  soon 
as  it  is  understood  abroad,  that  the  negotiation  is  at  an  end, 
that  the  difficulties  in  the  way  of  coalition  are  not  to  be  easily 
removed;  it  will  be  a  token  for  action  to  those  who  wish  to 
prevent  or  lower  down  the  Institution.  They  will  take  courage; 
they  will  interfere;  they  will  put  new  bars  in  the  way;  they 
will  turn  all  our  fears  into  realities.  I  wish  the  enemy  never 
to  know,  that  we  find  any  considerable  difficulties,  never  to 
have  an  idea  that  anything  but  union  is  possible.  This  will 
keep  them  still.  Let  us  then  in  some  way,  in  any  way,  in  every 
way,  keep  up  the  spirit  of  union.  Let  this  be  the  watchword. 
Let  nothing  else  be  thought  of,  except  as  an  abomination  to  be 
abhorred,  a  judgment  to  be  dreaded,  deprecated,  and  watchfully 
guarded  against.  Again,  if  the  life  of  intercourse,  of  deliberation, 
and  negotiation  be  kept  up,  it  may  and  I  hope  it  will  be  the 
case,  that  the  three  Donors  themselves  will  be  satisfied,  that  the 
visitatorial  plan  is  the  best.  They  may  soon  find  upon  fair  exam- 
ination, that  other  schemes  have  difficulties  as  well  as  that. 
Their  minds  will  open  and  enlarge,  and  they  will  return  to  the 
visitatorial  system  with  entire  satisfaction,  and  embrace  it  with  more 
ardor  than  they  would  have  done  at  any  former  time.  And  this 
again  may  open  their  hearts  more  and  more  to  acts  of  generosity. 
In  short,  if  we  persevere  in  patient,  candid,  benevolent  efforts, 
and  in  fervent  prayers,  I  believe  we  shall  go  right.  Dear  sir, 
we  have  had  darker  days  than  the  present.  But  light  has 
followed.  It  is  God's  cause;  and  it  is  easy  for  Him  to  bring 
about  the  most  promising  and  happy  union.  But  He  may  see 
it  to  be  best  to  try  our  faith,  our  zeal,  our  meekness  and  patience. 
He  may  call  us  to  higher  and  more  painful  exertions,  than  any 
we  have  made.  And  let  me  say,  dear  sir,  that  the  idea  of  this 
does  not  cause  me  to  tremble  in  the  least  degree.  Rather  than 
give  up  union,  I  would  go  over  the  whole  ground  again;  I 
would  encounter  more  enemies,  I  would  face  more  awful 


514       HISTORY  OF  ANDOVER   THEOLOGICAL   SEMINARY. 

dangers,  I  would  engage  in  harder  struggles,  than  we  have  ever 
known.  If  the  present  attempt  fail,  I  think  I  shall  feel  the  same. 
Excuse  me.  I  say  all  this,  because  your  letter  is  expressive  of 
painful,  gloomy  apprehension.  Dr.  S.'s  mind  is  in  a  very  agree- 
able, promising  state.  He  has  expressed  a  particular  wish  to  see 
you  and  converse  with  you.  It  was  done  with  much  appearance 
of  cordiality.  Mr.  Brown,  whom  I  saw  Tuesday,  is  right.  His 
candid  mind  will  come  to  anything  that  is  reasonable.  I  mean 
soon  to  spend  an  evening  with  Mr.  Bartlett.  I  meant  to  add 
above,  that  I  believe  Dr.  S.  is  heartily  engaged  for  union. 

To-morrow  I  mean  to  begin  another  number  of  Pastor.  I 
wish  you  could  make  a  visit  to  Newburyport  and  Newbury 
before  long.  It  might  do  good.  We  cannot  do  too  much  to 
accomplish  our  favorite  object.  The  question  of  union  and  dis- 
union, is  to  me  like  the  question  of  life  and  death.  I  have  not 
the  least  doubt,  but  disunion  in  this  affair,  would  gratify  the 
Devil,  and  give  his  malice  a  temporary  triumph;  while  it  would 
clothe  the  church  in  sackcloth.  I  have  had  a  most  pleasing  in- 
terview with  Esqr.  Abbot.  I  esteem  him  as  a  father,  and  he  is 
pleased  to  give  me  the  honor  and  happiness  to  call  me  his  son. 
I  wish  his  dear  heart  may  not  be  disappointed  and  wounded. 
Both  he  and  his  wife  have  gained  a  high  place  in  my  love  and 
respect. 

If  you  receive  this  at  New  Haven,  remember  me  very  grate- 
fully and  respectfully  to  Dr.  Dwight  and  his  son.  Let  me  hear 
from  you  soon  after  your  return. 

With  great  affection  and  esteem,  I  am,  Eev  and  dear  Sir, 

Yours  truly, 

L.  WOODS. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Church. 

NEWBUKT,  Oct.  24,  1807,  Sabbath  night. 

BELOVED  BROTHER, — I  have  not  had  opportunity  before  this  to 
fulfil  my  wish  and  my  engagement.  Dr.  Spring  returned  on 
Thursday.  It  was  not  the  Trustee  meeting,  as  I  supposed.  Next 
Thursday  is  the  time.  Dr.  Spring  and  Dr.  Pearson  prepared  a 
pretty  large  number  of  articles,  containing  "  principles  and  con- 
ditions of  union"  upon  the  new  plan.1  The  prospect  of  mutual 
satisfaction  in  that  scheme  is  greater  than  it  was.  It  seems  Dr. 
P.  expressed  considerable  complacency  in  it,  though  the  visitato- 
rial is  his  favorite.  Mr.  Farrar  is  decided  in  his  preference  of  that 

1  Two  Theological  Schools  in  Andover,  under  distinct  Boards. — EDITOB. 


APPENDIX.  515 

scheme,  but  I  think  will  not  object  to  this.  Dr.  Spring  certainly 
is  not  decided  against  the  visitatorial  scheme,  and  I  am  not  at  all 
sure  but  it  will  be  resumed  and  preferred  by  the  three  Donors. 
But  that  must  be  brought  on  prudently  and  gradually,  on  account 
of  Mr.  Norris.  Dr.  P.  is  expected  to  be  at  Newburyport  this  week 
on  the  same  business.  He  is  a  man  who  makes  thorough  work 
of  the  business  he  is  engaged  in,  makes  everything  bend  to  the 
great  object,  is  ready  to  face  difficulties,  never  flinches,  is  com- 
posed when  most  earnest,  is  the  same  all  the  week  and  all  the  year; 
in  short,  is  raised  up  and  qualified  to  act  in  these  times  and  in  this 
affair.  We  don't  find  such  a  man  once  in  an  age. 

I  have  written  to  Dr.  Morse  in  answer  to  his  gloomy  letter, 
which  you  saw.  He  is  apt  to  be  discouraged.  To  him  I 
have  urged  the  importance  of  keeping  up  and  encouraging  the 
spirit  of  negotiation,  and  of  impressing  on  all  the  idea  that  there 
must  and  will  be  union,  lest  the  enemy,  finding  a  door  open,  should 
introduce  new  difficulties.  I  have  also  urged  that  persevering  at- 
tempts will  undoubtedly  discover  a  mode  of  union  at  once  prac- 
ticable, safe,  and  satisfactory.  On  these  accounts,  and  several 
others,  I  have  insisted  that  the  three  Donors  with  Dr.  Spring  are 
to  be  encouraged  in  any  plan  they  are  disposed  to  mention,  and 
in  any  measures  they  are  disposed  to  adopt,  in  favor  of  coalition. 
I  have  let  him  know  I  am  by  no  means  discouraged;  and  that  I 
should  not  be,  even  if  this  scheme  and  the  next  scheme  should  fail. 

It  will  be  desirable,  I  apprehend,  that  you  should  cultivate  fre- 
quent and  intimate  converse  with  Esquire  Farrar.  Write  to  him. 
Let  him  know  your  feelings  on  the  subject  of  the  Institution  and 
everything  that  they  are  doing.  He  has  some  fears  about  Hop- 
kinsians,  which  free  intercourse  with  you  will  tend  to  remove.  He 
is  a  charming  character,  and  friendship  with  him  is  worth  obtain- 
ing and  preserving.  Do  call  upon  him,  if  you  can,  on  your  way 
to  Association.  I  wish  you  to  use  your  influence,  discreetly,  with 
your  Association,  in  order  to  remove  any  wrong  impressions  and 
groundless  surmises  respecting  the  Seminary;  and  likewise  con- 
cerning General  Association.  Will  you  not  be  prepared  to  come 
into  an  Association  which  has  Dr.  West  for  Moderator,  Mr.  Hyde 
or  Austin  for  Scribe,  etc.,  in  short,  which  is  begun  and  supported 
by  the  firmest  and  most  zealous  Calvinists  in  the  State  ?  What  do 
their  jealousies  mean  ?  I  am  afraid  the  political  infatuation  is  at 
bottom.  With  some  I  am  satisfied  this  is  the  case.  I  look  upon 
the  Seminary  and  General  Association  as  connected.  And  I  have 
no  doubt  there  will  be  a  kind  of  connection  formed.  It  has  oc- 
curred to  me,  as  a  promising  measure,  that  the  Seminary  should 


516       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

request  the  General  Association,  from  year  to  year,  to  send  mes- 
sengers, who  shall  attend  the  annual  visitations,  and  be  invited  to 
sit  as  honorary  members  of  the  board  or  boards,  and  shall  make 
report  of  the  state  of  the  Seminary.  This  will  prepare  the  way 
for  the  General  Association  to  suggest  improvements  in  the  plan 
of  instruction,  etc.,  and  will  introduce  friendship  and  co-opera- 
tion between  the  two  bodies;  and  through  the  medium  of  the 
General  Association  the  churches  will  obtain  a  correct  acquaint- 
ance with  the  nature  and  state  of  the  Seminary,  and  will  know 
what  confidence  to  repose  in  it.  I  am  not  sure  but  all  this  may 
be  extended  to  General  Association  in  Connecticut,  the  Gen- 
eral Conference  in  Vermont,  and  even  in  time  to  the  General  As- 
sembly of  Presbyterians.  Oh,  my  brother,  how  the  prospect 
opens!  I  hope  God  is  about  to  do  something  great  for  Zion. 
Let  the  Seminary  have  your  prayers.  Wrestle  for  the  union,  and 
remember  me ;  ceasing  not  to  pray  that  I  may  be  directed  and 
furnished  for  duty— and  that  I  may  not  prove  a  burden  to  the 
Institution  and  to  the  church  of  Gpd.  Oh,  what  blushing  and 
humiliation  belong  to  me !  Remember  my  people  too.  Ma}r  God 
direct  them  and  bless  them.  They  are  dear  to  me.  I  am  affected 
to  think  of  leaving  them.  Call  on  me,  if  possible,  on  your  way  to 
Association,  or  on  your  return.  Find  out  how  your  brethren  feel 
respecting  all  our  affairs.  Remember  us  to  our  dear  sister,  Mrs. 
Church,  and  to  your  honored  parents  and  other  friends,  and 
believe  me 

Yours  truly, 

L.  WOODS. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Mr.  Warren. 

NEWBUBT,  Oct.  27,  1807. 

MY  DEAR  BROTHER, — I  had  an  expectation  of  seeing  you  next 
week.  You  were  to  have  word  if  the  circumstances  of  my  family 
rendered  it  best  for  you  not  to  come.  Nothing  has  taken  place  to 
prevent  your  visit  from  being  exceedingly  agreeable  and  alto- 
gether convenient.  Mrs.  Woods  and  all  the  family  are  very  well. 
The  Tuesday  after  I  left  you  I  went  to  Princeton.  Mrs.  Spring 
for  health's  sake  rode  with  me.  I  found  my  aged  father  much 
better  than  I  expected.  The  day  of  my  arrival  he  began  to  walk 
the  room  with  his  staff.  When  I  gave  him  an  account  of  the  In- 
stitution, and  of  my  prospect,  and  after  he  made  many  inquiries  dic- 
tated by  parental  love,  he  said,  "  Well,  Leonard,  I  hope  you  will 
do  well, — but  I  don't  know."  My  visit  was  quite  unexpected.  On 


APPENDIX.  517 

my  going  in  and  speaking  to  my  father,  asking  him  how  he  did, 
he  looked  up  and  said,  "  Why,  Leonard,  seeing  you  will  be  the  best 
medicine  I  have  had."  He  appears  composed  and  comfortable  in 
his  mind.  After  he  went  to  bed,  I  went  and  stood  by  him,  he 
looked  on  me  and  said,  "  Oh,  Leonard,  I  long  to  have  my  whole 
soul  swallowed  up  in  love  to  God  and  Christ,  but  I  can't  keep 
fixed  there  as  I  wish !  "  I  have  a  comfortable  hope  of  his  religion. 
He  has  always  showed  a  disposition  peculiarly  free  from  ill-will 
and  revenge.  I  have  known  many  instances  of  his  receiving  in- 
juries, and  having  it  in  his  power  to  avenge  them,  when  he  has 
manifested  a  meek,  forgiving  spirit,  and  has  sought  opportunity 
to  be  reconciled.  This  proceeded  not  from  natural  indifference 
of  mind,  for  he  has  warm  feelings.  He  has  been  a  very  extensive 
reader  on  history,  both  civil  and  ecclesiastical,  on  philosophical 
subjects,  on  doctrinal  and  practical  religion.  His  genius  is  pe- 
culiarly mathematical,  and  his  memory  uncommonly  retentive. 
His  abilities  are  far  superior  to  those  which  any  of  his  children 
possess.  May  his  last  days  be  devout  and  happy. 

The  business  of  the  Seminary  is  yet  unfinished.  The  proba- 
bility of  union  is  still  very  strong  and  encouraging.  On  my  return, 
I  spent  a  very  agreeable  evening  and  morning  with  Esqr.  Abbot. 
On  my  leaving  him,  he  said,  "  Always  come  right  here,  and  if  our 
ways  don't  suit  you,  let  us  know  it,  make  it  your  home  here."  And 
then  added  very  tenderly,  "/  shall  esteem  you  my  firstborn  son."  I 
feel  very  warmly  attached  to  him.  He  alone,  you  know,  has  of- 
fered me  a  salary  of  a  thousand  dollars  for  life.  I  am  happy  to 
think  it  will  be  easy  to  please  him,  without  deviating  from  duty. 
Oh,  that  my  defects  may  be  supplied,  my  failings  and  sins  removed, 
and  every  needed  qualification  imparted.  My  abilities  and  my 
attainments  look  exceedingly  small.  But  I  have  reason  most  of 
all  to  lament  my  want  of  Christian  wisdom  and  zeal.  The  candor 
of  my  friends  encourages  me,  but  they  don't  know  what  I  know 
respecting  myself. 

I  was  very  happy,  dear  brother,  to  hear  that  your  mind  had 
been  less  agitated  by  your  late  trials  and  losses,  than  by  some 
past  scenes.  I  hope  that  the  ever  gracious,  ever  faithful  God, 
the  friend  and  keeper  of  His  people,  is  leading  you  along,  though 
in  a  way  you  know  not.  May  every  trial  have  a  happy  effect  upon 
your  heart,  and  on  the  heart  of  your  dear  partner.  May  it  be 
your  great  concern  to  improve  affliction  as  well  as  prosperity  to 
the  honor  of  God  and  your  own  spiritual  good. 

Rememb  er  us  very  affectionately  to  Mrs.  Warren  and  our  two 
nephews,  and  Ruth.  I  hope  and  trust  you  will  yet  have  great 


518       HISTORY  OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

joy  in  your  children.  The  joy  will  be  ours  as  well  as  yours.  We 
are  brothers  in  the  Christian  profession;  brothers  by  long  and 
happy  intimacy;  brothers  in  the  most  tender  love.  May  our  friend- 
ship last  as  long  as  life,  and  as  long  as  our  existence.  Solemn, 
endearing  thought !  May  we  endeavor  to  cultivate  that  kind  of 
friendship  which  will  never  change  or  die.  Let  us  hear  from  you 
soon,  and  remember  to  visit  us  when  consistent  Avith  more  im- 
portant engagements. 

Yours  truly, 

L.  WOODS. 

P.  S — If  we  should  ever  be  at  Andover,  you  can  come  up 
often  and  take  a  dinner  and  early  cup  of  tea,  and  if  you  choose 
go  home  the  same  night. 

From  Gou.  Strong  to  Dr.  Spring. 

NOKTHAMPTON,  Oct.  27,  1807. 

REVEKEND  SIR, — I  received  a  letter  last  evening  from  Dr.  Pear- 
son, proposing  questions  similar  to  the  two  first  in  your  letter, 
which  I  received  this  morning,  when  I  was  folding  up  my  answer 
to  him.  I  wrote  to  Dr.  Pearson  as  follows : — 

I  have  received  your  letter,  etc.,  but  as  I  have  never  before 
had  occasion  to  attend  to  the  extent  or  construction  of  the  powers 
which  the  common  law  gives  to  Visitors  of  Literary  Institutions  in 
England,  I  am  very  incompetent  to  decide  at  once  on  some  of  the 
questions  which  may  arise  in  the  present  case. 

The  Act  of  Incorporation  of  Phillips  Academy  makes  the  Trus- 
tees the  Corporation,  and  yet  declares  that  they  shall  be  the  sole 
Visitors;  this  was  probably  to  prevent  the  government  from  as- 
suming Visitatorial  powers  over  the  Institution.  The  Act  author- 
izes the  Trustees  to  receive  grants  and  bequests  on  the  terms 
expressed  in  any  deed  of  conveyance  with  provisions  which  have 
no  respect  to  the  article  concerning  Visitors.  The  same  is  the 
case  with  the  Act  of  June,  1807.  But  notwithstanding  if  the  at- 
tention of  the  Legislature  is  called  to  the  subject,  they  will  construe 
the  Act  as  they  think  proper.  Should  the  founders  of  a  new  pro- 
fessorship retain,  with  the  consent  of  the  Trustees,  the  powers  of 
Visitors  in  express  terms,  there  would  probably  be  no  govern- 
mental interference  so  long  as  a  good  agreement  prevails  in  the 
Institution;  but  if  a  controversy  should  arise,  and  one  of  the  parties 
should  apply  to  the  Legislature  for  relief,  I  am  by  no  means  confi- 
dent that  they  would  refuse  to  adopt  such  measures  as  they  might 


APPENDIX.  519 

think  justified,  by  a  departure  in  the  Trustees  from  the  original 
terms  of  Incorporation.  If,  therefore,  superintending  powers  are 
reserved  by  the  new  Founders,  I  should  think  it  prudent  to  state 
those  powers,  in  particular  and  definite  terms,  without  making 
use  of  the  word  Visitors,  which  may  imply  more  than  is  intended. 

The  proposed  Institution  will  undoubtedly  be  of  great  and 
extensive  use,  if  it  is  conducted  with  prudence  and  candor,  and 
with  the  old-fashioned  temper  and  principles,  by  which  I  have  no 
doubt  the  Founders  are  influenced.  But  the  utmost  care  will  be 
necessary  to  guard  against  division  and  disputes  in  the  direction 
and  government  of  it.  Those  establishments  which  are  merely 
literary,  depend  in  a  great  measure  for  their  success  and  useful- 
ness on  the  good  agreement  of  their  members,  but  in  religious  In- 
stitutions the  want  of  peace  and  harmony  is  ruinous.  I  think 
therefore  it  would  have  been  fortunate  if  the  whole  authority 
could  have  been  placed  in  one  set  of  men,  and  I  don't  know  my- 
self in  whom  I  should  have  more  confidence  than  the  Trustees  of 
Andover  Academy.  Besides,  the  Original  Statutes  of  the  Founders 
appear  to  me  to  be  as  great  a  security  against  erroneous  principles 
as  language  can  afford.  Perhaps  the  difficulty  in  the  present  case 
may  be  removed  \)j  enlarging  the  number  of  Trustees;  to  such  a 
small  amendment  I  "  presume  the  Legislature  would  not  object. 
This  method,  I  think,  would  be  highly  preferable  to  the  introduc- 
tion of  a  system  not  contemplated  by  the  Act,  or  known  in  practice 
in  this  country." 

In  addition  to  what  I  have  thus  written  to  Dr.  Pearson,  permit 
me  to  suggest  to  you,  that  it  appears  to  me  of  great  importance 
in  this  case,  that  in  some  way  or  other  the  views  of  the  present 
Donors  should  be  combined.  If  different  Institutions  are  estab- 
lished, they  can  hardly  fail  to  be  rivals,  and  if  so,  they  may  soon 
become  hostile  and  destroy  each  other's  usefulness.  Even  now 
it  will  be  asked,  if  the  principles  adopted  in  the  Andover  Institu- 
tion are  correct,  why  is  another  to  be  formed  in  its  neighborhood, 
when  by  uniting  the  funds,  a  single  Institution  may  be  rendered 
far  more  respectable  and  useful  than  both  can  be  when  separate. 
In  many  respects  the  expense  would  be  nearly  doubled  by  hav- 
ing two,  and  yet  the  advantage  to  each  student  from  a  Library 
and  the  aid  of  Professors  would  be  lessened  almost  one  half. 

In  whatever  manner  the  business  is  conducted,  I  hope  the 
Institution  will  be  highly  useful,  and  the  benevolent  views  of  the 
Donors  fully  realized. 

I  am,  sir,  with  esteem  and  regard,  your  most  obedient  servant, 

CALEB  STRONG. 


520       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

From  Hon.  Geo.  Bliss  to  Mr.  Farmr. 

SPRINGFIELD,  Oct.  28,  1807. 

DEAR  SIR, — Inclosed  you  have  my  opinion  upon  the  subject 
proposed.  If  it  differs  from  Gov.  Strong's,  by  all  means  act  upon 
his;  you  had  best  not  divulge  it  till  you  receive  his.  I  have  some 
doubts  as  to  the  expediency  of  adopting  the  plan  actually  pro- 
posed for  the  Board  of  Visitors.  "Would  there  not  be  some  difficulty 
in  discharging  the  various  important  duties  assigned  them  with- 
out an  act  of  incorporation.  The  manner  of  designating  the  suc- 
cessors of  the  first  board,  should  be  as  simple  as  can  be  consistent 
with  the  views  of  the  Donors.  If  they  should  now  designate  cer- 
tain officers,  civil  or  ecclesiastical,  or  the  clergymen  of  certain 
parishes,  the  difficulty  of  elections  might  be  obviated.  They 
would  then  be  as  they  now  are  a  mere  private  association;  if  they 
refuse  the  act,  if  a  majority  will  not  agree  upon  the  choice  of 
officers,  or  the  supply  of  vacancies,  is  there  any  existing  power  to 
compel  them,  or  if  they  persist  in  neglecting  their  duty,  can  they 
be  removed.  Will  the  Supreme  Court  be  obliged  to  hear  com- 
plaints, if  you  apply  to  them  ?  Is  it  certain  that  any  person  can 
regularly  apply.  Perhaps  the  Trustees,  or  any  person  who  has 
an  interest,  might  apply  for  a  mandamus,  obliging  them  to  pro- 
ceed. I  rather  think  it  must  be  so,  and  you  have  provided  a  very 
proper  remedy  for  the  abuse  of  their  power  by  appealing  to  the 
Supreme  Court.  I  don't  know  that  in  these  regards  anything 
better  can  be  done.  Would  it  not  be  well  to  provide,  in  case  of 
contagious  sickness,  or  any  other  pressing  emergence,  the  meet- 
ings of  the  Visitors  might  be  at  a  different  place?  In  case  of 
accident  should  there  not  be  provision  to  call  an  annual  meeting, 
when  omitted,  as  the  special  meetings  are  called.  I  think  the  vis- 
iting power  ought  to  be  placed  in  as  few  hands  as  may  be,  and 
extend  to  as  few  objects  as  is  consistent  with  the  views  of  the 
Donors.  Ought  they  to  have  any  original  jurisdiction  over  the 
scholars  ?  I  think  not.  Give  them  the  power  of  censuring,  dis- 
placing, etc.,  the  Professors  and  other  officers,  would  that  not  be 
sufficient  ?  Is  it  well  to  have  three  permanent  officers  in  a  body, 
which  may,  and  I  should  hope  would,  commonly  consist  of  but 
three,  and  cannot  exceed  five  persons  ?  I  have  given  these  hints  to 
you  personally  because  I  do  not  think  they  affect  the  main  ques- 
tions and  also  because  I  am  not  sure  that  I  am  correct  in  them, 
and  if  I  am,  you  can  probably  easily  adopt  them  in  other  respects. 
I  can  truly  say  I  think  the  clauses  respecting  the  power  of  visit- 
ing are  well  drawn. 

I  am  your  friend  and  obedient  servant, 

GEORGE  BLISS. 


APPENDIX.  521 

It  is  with  diffidence  I  give  an  opinion  upon  a  question  in  which 
I  can  derive  no  assistance  from  the  statutes,  judicial  decisions,  or 
usages  of  the  Commonwealth.  But  after  careful  attention  and 
consideration,  I  am  satisfied  that  the  general  principles  of  the 
English  law  with  regard  to  visitors  of  lay  corporations  are  adopted 
in  this  State.  Whenever  an  authority  is  delegated,  those  to  whom 
it  is  committed,  ought  to  account  for  the  execution  of  it.  If  an 
estate  be  granted  upon  condition,  or  for  certain  specified  pur- 
poses, those  who  grant  have  a  right  to  see  that  the  conditions  are 
performed,  and  that  the  specific  purposes  are  fairly  and  fully  at- 
tained. In  ordinary  cases  the  grantor  may  enter  for  breach  of 
condition,  or  by  legal  process  obtain  a  remedy  for  diverting  an 
estate  from  the  specific  objects,  to  which  it  is  appropriated. 

To  avoid  the  obvious  evils  attending  frequent  and  expensive 
litigation  the  law  of  England  has  wisely  provided  that  those  who 
give  to  literary  or  charitable  institutions,  shall  have  the  right  to 
see  that  the  property  given  is  faithfully  applied  according  to  the 
will  of  the  donors,  and  to  regulate  the  proceedings  of  such  insti- 
tutions so  far  as  consists  with  the  terms  of  the  original  grants. 
And  though  I  know  of  no  decision  or  practice  in  this  country  in 
point,  yet,  as  there  is  the  same  reason,  the  same  legal  principles 
ought  to  govern.  But  however  this  may  be,  and  even  if  our  law 
did  not  annex  visitatorial  powers  to  every  grant  to  eleemosynary 
lay  corporations  when  they  are  not  expressly  reserved,  I  have 
no  doubt  but  that  they  may  be  made  the  subject  of  express  lim- 
itation and  reservation  at  the  original  endowment,  or  of  express 
agreement  in  any  subsequent  donation.  The  reservation  of  such 
power  by  express  agreement  in  any  donation  made  to  the 
Trustees  of  Phillips  Academy  which  is  consistent  with  their  Con- 
stitution and  Charter,  will  therefore  be  valid  and  binding  on  all 
concerned. 

I  have  examined  with  attention,  the  Original  Constitution  of 
the  Academy,  the  Act  of  Incorporation,  and  the  Act  in  addition 
thereto^  and  find  nothing  in  either  restraining  the  Trustees  from 
taking  donations,  when  the  right  of  visitation  is  reserved.  The 
Constitution  given  by  the  Founders  of  the  Academy,  very  far  from 
discountenancing,  expresses  a  hope,  that  the  very  object  of  these 
professorships  would  in  time  be  attained.  The  expressions  in  the 
original  act  of  incorporation  making  the  persons  therein  named 
and  their  successors,  Trustees,  Visitors  and  Guardians,  ought 
not  to  be  so  construed  as  to  annul  what  it  expressly  authorizes, 
their  receiving  any  gift,  grant,  or  devise  upon  such  terms  and  under 
such  provisions  and  limitations  as  may  be  expressed  therein.  This 


522       HISTORY   OF   ANDOYER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

is  subject  by  the  act  to  two  restrictions:  first,  the  amount  is  lim- 
ited; secondly,  the  Trustees  are  prohibited  from  receiving  any 
donation,  conditioned  that  they  shall  act  counter  to  the  design 
of  the  first  grantors. 

The  restriction  as  to  the  amount  is  altered  by  the  additional 
act.  After  having  examined  the  proposed  plan  and  Constitution 
for  the  Theological  Institution,  I  think  it  is  not  counter  to  the 
designs  of  the  first  grantors,  but  manifestly  in  furtherance  of  the 
objects  they  proposed. 

But  had  there  been  room  for  doubt,  if  the  original  act  stood 
alone,  I  am  satisfied  that  the  additional  act,  fairly  and  fully  re- 
moves all  reasonable  doubts. 

This  act  having  been  received  and  acted  upon  by  the  Trustees, 
in  express  terms  authorizes  them  to  receive  any  donations  not 
exceeding  $5000  a  year,  and  apply  the  same  agreeably  to  the  will 
of  the  Donors,  if  consistent  with  the  original  design  of  the  Found- 
ers of  the  Academy.  The  conditions  of  the  proposed  donations 
are  consistent  with  the  original  design.  I  see  no  reason  to  ques- 
tion the  right  of  the  Trustees  to  receive  donations  upon  the  express 
agreement  that  a  visitatorial  power  shall  be  exercised,  and  neither 
the  original  Founders  of  the  Academy,  their  heirs,  or  the  Trustees, 
can  divert  the  fund,  thus  appropriated,  or  in  any  way  annul  or 
vacate  the  right  of  visitation. 

I  do  not  apprehend  that  it  will  be  more  liable  to  legislative  or 
judicial  control  than  any  private  property.  It  may  be  most  pru- 
dent, that  the  Trustees  should  expressly  receive  and  accept  the 
additional  act,  and  that  at  a  legal  meeting  duly  warned  for  that 
purpose,  the  Trustees  should  expressly  agree  to  receive  the  pro- 
posed donations  upon  the  terms  and  conditions  annexed  to  them, 
and  that  the  Donors  should  have  such  agreement  under  the  seal 
of  the  Corporation. 

GEOKGE   BLISS. 
SPBINGFIELD,  Oct.  29,  1807. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBUEY,  Nov.  2,  1807. 

EEV.  AND  DEAR  SIR, — I  wrote  to  you  while  you  were  at  New 
Haven.  Probably  you  have  received  what  I  wrote,  and  therefore 
I  shall  not  go  over  the  business  again,  especially  as  you  will  see 
Dr.  Pearson  this  week.  He  will  give  you  the  whole.  To-day  I 
have  seen  Dr.  S.  and  Mr.  Bartlett  separately.  Much  conversation 
passed.  I  am  fully  of  opinion  that  nothing  prevents  union  upon 


APPENDIX.  523 

the  visitatorial  scheme  but  Mr.  Norris.  We  must  guard  against  the 
influence  of  injurious  suspicions,  while  we  reluctantly  observe  the 
motives  of  those  who  have  not  been  for  union,  and  use  all  our 
wisdom  in  adopting  and  bringing  others  to  adopt,  such  measures 
as  will  secure  it  on  the  best  principles.  I  must  say  that  Dr.  S. 
appears  more  and  more  impressed  with  the  importance  and  ne- 
cessity of  coalescing  with  Andover  Seminary,  and  was  more  explicit 
to-day  than  ever  I  have  known  him,  in  declaring,  that  the  union  is 
desirable.  Brother  Church  lately  wrote  him  a  charming  letter,  in 
which  he  tells  him,  Divine  Providence  appears  to  mark  out  Ando- 
ver as  the  place  where  the  friends  of  truth  must  unite,  and  make 
a  firm  stand  against  the  enemy.  Dr.  S.  begins  to  be  sensible, 
that  he  cannot  command  the  orthodox  influence  in  a  separate  In- 
stitution. But  I  grant  the  importance  of  circumspection  and 
prudence,  of  the  keenest  discernment,  and  of  unceasing  diligence 
in  order  to  keep  matters  in  a  right  train  and  to  prevent  what  we 
most  dread.  I  have  friendship  and  confidence  enough  to  render 
me  comfortable,  and  yet  suspicion  enough  to  render  me  watchful. 
Dr.  S.  must  be  treated  with  affection  and  care  and  be  brought  to 
coincide  with  us  perfectly  in  his  feelings  as  to  union,  and  then 
there  is  no  man  who  can  do  us  more  good.  He  will  be  right,  I 
have  no  doubt,  in  the  issue.  I  wish  you  to  see  him  and  write  to 
him,  as  you  have  opportunity.  Mr.  Bartlett  is  as  warm  for  union 
and  for  Dr.  P.  as  ever.  I  see  his  mind  cannot  think  of  separation. 
He  told  me  to-day  he  considered  the  evils  of  two  rival  Institu- 
tions as  Dr.  Morse  stated  them  in  the  first  conference  at  New- 
buryport.  But  he  is  very  desirous  of  having  matters  so  managed 
that  Mr.  Norris'  mind  may  not  be  hurt.  He  has  no  doubt  but 
Mr.  Norris  will  do  nobly  for  the  Seminary.  Mr.  Bartlett  observed 
to-day  that  Mr.  Brown  will  fall  in  with  anything  that  favors 
union. 

As  to  the  secondary  plan,1  I  pray  it  may  not  be  rejected.  Let 
the  three  gentlemen  see  that  we  are  all  in  EARNEST  for  harmony, 
and  choose  it,  and  seek  it  in  any  tolerable  form,  rather  than  lose 
it.  In  the  course  of  the  deliberations,  after  they  have  worried 
themselves  as  much  upon  that  as  upon  the  former,  they  may  be 
prepared  to  return  to  the  visitatorial  plan  with  one  heart  and  with 
all  the  heart.  "We  must  exhaust  the  last  drop  of  reconciliation  and 
patience.  I  have  hope,  sometimes  confidence,  that  through  the 
superintending,  all-directing  wisdom  and  power  of  God,  our 

wishes  will  be  gratified,  our  expectations  out-done.     As  to  Mr. 

he  has  written  me  a  short  letter.     I  have  written  him  a  short  letter, 

1  What  I  now  call  the  third  plau. 


524       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

that  is  all.  It  is,  sir,  my  serious,  deliberate  opinion,  formed  with- 
out ill-will  towards  him,  that  it  is  best  in  present  circumstances 
to  let  him  alone.  I  would  not  have  you  infer,  that  I  have  declined 
an  interview.  I  have  expressed  my  willingness  to  him.  Depend 
upon  it,  he  is  as  subtle  a  piece  as  ever  was,  he  is  extremely  dissat- 
isfied with  the  present  attitude  of  things,  he  considers  it  as  bad  as 
anything  can  be,  and  he  will  be  plotting.  He  will  put  his  head 
with  Mr. 's  head  to  hunt  up  difficulties,  and  to  thwart  our  favor- 
ite plan.  I  say  this  because  I  have  had  more  opportunity  to  know 
the  man  than  you  have  and  I  wish  you  to  be  aware  of  his  character 
and  to  shape  every  measure  respecting  him  accordingly.  I  do  it 
purely  in  subservience  to  our  great  object,  for  which  I  am  resolved 
to  put  forth  every  exertion,  to  run  every  risk,  and  to  make  every 
sacrifice,  which  is  consistent  with  truth  and  duty,  or  rather  which 
truth  and  duty  REQUIRE.  The  WHOLE  of  me,  such  as  it  is,  is  for 
that  object,  union.  'Tis  dear  as  my  health,  my  name,  or  my  life. 

As  to  Dr.  ,  one  word  will  do.     I  wish  you  to  treat  him  very 

kindly  and  very  cautiously.  Take  care,  without  seeming  to  take 
care.  He  will  do  us  all  the  hurt  he  can;  he  is  a  disappointed 
man.  He  has  showed  himself.  I  must  not  tell  you  all.  Pastor 
I  intend  to  send  next  week  at  farthest,  together  with  some  things 
I  brought  with  me. 

Affectionately  yours, 

L.  WOODS. 

From  Dr.  Spring  to  Judge  Daggett. 

NEWBTJRTPOBT,  Nov.  6,  1807. 

WORTHY  SIR, — In  a  letter  which  I  wrote  my  son,  and  which  he 
did  not  receive  before  he  left  New  Haven,  I  presented  the  follow- 
ing questions  to  you,  desiring  your  answers.  I  have  obtained  of 
several  of  my  opulent  friends  a  Foundation  for  a  gratuitous  Theo- 
logical Institution  to  qualify  young  gentlemen  for  the  ministry. 
But  being  requested  by  the  Trustees  of  Andover  Academy  to 
attach  our  theological  department  to  the  Academy  upon  the 
Visitatorial  system,  we  wish  to  have  all  things  safe  in  theory  and 
prospect  before  we  coalesce.  Therefore, 

1.  What  is  the  extent  of  the  Visitatorial  system  in  England? 

2.  Is   the   Visitatorial   system    practicable   and    safe    in    this 
country  ? 

3.  Since  the  Incorporating  Act  constitutes  the  Trustees  of  the 
Academy,  "the  Corporation  and  the  sole  Visitors  of  the  Academy," 
(to  prevent  the  interference  of  the  Legislature)  can  they  consist- 


APPENDIX.  525 

ently  receive  us,  or  can  we  safely  attach  ourselves  to  the  Institu- 
tion, on  the  Visitatorial  system  ? 

4  Though  the  word  Visitors  be  not  used  in  the  legal  sense, 
in  the  Act,  may  not  the  judiciary  in  case  of  after  difficulty  use  the 
word  to  our  disadvantage  if  they  please  ? 

5.  If  we  coalesce  on  the  Visitatorial  system,  can  we  vest  the 
right  of  electing  Professors  in  the  Board  of  Visitors  ?  or  must  the 
right  be  inseparably  vested  in  the  Trustees  of  the  Academy  ? 

You  will  have  opportunity  to  converse  with  my  son  on  the 
subject,  who  will  explain  the  matter  more  fully. 

I  hope,  sir,  you  will  look  at  the  subject,  and  give  me  your  de- 
cided answers  to  the  questions  soon,  for  we  suspend. 

Please  to  excuse  my  freedom.  Accept  my  thanks  for  your 
attention  to  my  son,  and  let  me  subscribe 

Your  obedient  servant, 

SAMUEL  SPRING. 


From  Dr.  Stephen  West  to  Dr.  Spring. 

STOCKBRIDGE,  Nov.  9,  1807. 

REV.  AND  DEAR  SIR, — You  wrote  me  in  your  last  that  you 
and  the  gentlemen  in  connection  with  you,  in  the  plan  for  a  Theo- 
logical Academy,  had  finally  decided  against  a  union  with  the 
Andover  Institution.  I  cannot  but  think  your  decision  was  wise. 
Should  you  unite  with  them,  yours  would  be  swallowed  up  in 
theirs,  and  a  check  be  put  on  the  spread  and  progress  of  senti- 
ments which  we  cannot  but  consider  of  great  importance.  Re- 
specting the  Overseers  and  Directors  of  the  Institution,  whether 
it  will  be  wise  to  have  any  from  Berkshire,  you  and  others  con- 
cerned with  you  will  judge.  If  you  should,  in  my  opinion,  Rev. 
Jacob  Catlin  of  New  Marlborough  and  Mr.  Hyde  are  the  men  best 
qualified  for  the  place.  I  have  lately  seen  Mr.  Catlin,  and  con- 
versed with  him  on  the  subject.  I  believe,  should  he  be 
chosen,  you  might  expect  him  sometimes  to  attend  the  meet- 
ings of  the  Overseers.  But  the  distance  is  such,  that  gentlemen 
from  this  county  could  not  be  expected  often  to  take  so  long  a 
journey. 

Perhaps  the  religious  attention  in  Goshen,  Connecticut,  was 
mentioned  in  your  hearing,  while  you  were  here.  It  has  been 
very  great  through  the  past  season,  and  still  continues.  It  is 
equally  great  in  Litchfield,  and  said  also  to  be  great  in  New  London. 
It  is  also  great  in  Elizabethtown,  Newark  and  Orange  in  New 
Jersey.  What  abundant  reason  have  we  for  the  fullest  conn- 


526       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

dence  in  the  power  and  sufficiency,  the  truth  and  faithfulness,  of 
Zion's  God.  Mrs.  West  unites  with  me  in  cordial  salutations  to 
you  and  Mrs.  Spring. 

Your  affectionate  friend  and  brother, 

STEPHEN   WEST. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBUEY,  Nov.  10,  1807. 

VEEY  BELOVED  SIR, — I  have  not  received  anything  from  you 
since  you  went  to  New  Haven.  Perhaps  you  have  not  received 
the  two  packets  I  sent  by  stage  last  week.  If  you  have,  and  es- 
pecially if  you  have  heard  those  to  Dr.  P.  in  connection  with 
yours,  you  need  not  be  told  that  my  mind  last  week  was  agitated 
highly.  Saturday  I  went  down.  Dr.  Spring  gave  me  more  satis- 
faction as  to  his  real  desires  and  designs.  Since  that,  my  mind 
has  been  more  tranquil,  and  I  am  ready  to  reproach  myself  se- 
verely for  harboring  such  suspicions.  Dr.  P.  I  hope  will  be  along 
this  week.  I  looked  much  for  him  to-day.  You  have  doubtless 
seen  him,  and  know  all.  Oh,  what  wisdom  do  we  need !  I  de- 
sire your  most  free  and  parental  counsel  in  all  things.  My  heart 
would  be  GLAD  to  see  a  letter  from  you.  If  the  state  of  my  family 
permitted,  I  would  go  to  see  you  this  week.  But  we  are  in  the 
attitude  of  constant  expectation,  and  I  can't  leave  home.  We  are 
all  however  very  well.  I  send  Pastor,  such  as  it  is.  The  great 
objection  is  the  length.  But  readers  have  shown  patience  and 
candor.  I  could  not  do  any  thing  on  such  a  subject  without 
some  considerable  extent.  I  have  attended  to  the  piece  with  care. 
But  it  needs  your  eye  and  pencil. 

The  other  piece  I  have  shortened.  The  long  quotation  from 
Evangelical  Magazine,  Connecticut,  seems  of  no  consequence.  The 
writer  is  able.  I  have  received  number  twenty-nine.  It  is  good. 
What  shall  we  do  with  Appleton's  objections  to  General  Associa- 
tion ?  He  will  feel,  if  they  are  not  published.  But  I  think  they 
won't  do  for  the  public.  He  is  certainly  a  most  subtle  writer. 

I  long  to  know  how  things  look  at  New  Haven,  what  new  hints 
you  have  heard,  etc.  I  have  received  a  good  letter  from  Mr. 
Murdock,i  on  the  subject  of  union.  He  writes  just  as  you  talked 
last  spring.  All  impartial,  orthodox  men  have  one  mind. 

Remember  me  very  affectionately  to  each  of  your  amiable 
family  circle. 

I  am,  dear  sir,  yours  most  respectfully, 

L.  WOODS. 
1  Of  Princeton. 


APPENDIX.  527 


From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBUET,  Nov.  17,  1807. 

BELOVED  SIR, — I  received  yours  of  the  9th  and  10th  inst.  by 
Dr.  P.  on  his  return  from  Newburyport.  His  visit  there  was  a 
good  one.  Probably  he  has  written  to  you.  Several  measures 
have  been  taken  since,  tending,  I  hope,  to  good.  The  present 
state  is  this.  Dr.  Spring  is  going  to  Salem  Thursday  to  see  Mr. 
Norris.  Mr.  Bartlett  has  told  him  his  mind  fully  in  favor  of 
union  on  visitatorial  plan.  Mr.  B.  is  entirely  satisfied  and  has 
desired  Dr.  S.  to  use  all  his  influence  \vith  Mr.  N.  to  satisfy  him. 
Mr.  Bartlett  in  conversation,  yesterday,  said  to  me,  that  he  had 
told  Dr.  Spring  his  mind  very  fully;  that  he  has  no  doubt  Mr. 
Brown  will  be  satisfied;  that  he  wishes  to  see  the  matter  done 
immediately,  etc.  I  read  him  a  few  select  clauses  in  your  letter, 
which  he  heard  with  pleasure.  I  urged  the  importance  of 
his  and  Mr.  B.  going  on  by  themselves  if  Mr.  N.  made  difficulty, 
in  preference  to  having  unkind  feeling,  or  waiting  too  long  for 
him.  My  mouth  was  opened  with  abundant  freedom  on  every- 
thing important  in  your  view  and  in  mine.  I  have  much  hope  from 
him  and  Mr.  Brown.  I  shall  keep  up  frequent  intercourse  with 
them  by  writing  and  conversation.  The  great  thing  now  is  to 
secure  them.  Dr.  S.  will  ultimately  make  no  opposition  to  them, 
and  Mr.  N.  will  fall  in.  I  cannot  calculate  upon  Dr.  Spring's 
using  much  influence  with  Mr.  N.  till  he  finds  it  is  a  desperate 
case  with  Mr.  B.  and  B.  If  you  could  write  Mr.  Bartlett  a  free 
letter  in  confidence,  letting  him  know  your  friendship  for  Dr. 
Spring,  the  general  feeling  about  union,  the  struggle  you  and  Dr. 
P.  are  making  to  support  the  truth  and  to  raise  the  Theological 
Seminary  to  strict  orthodox  ground,  how  you  want  their  help,  the 
danger  and  the  injustice  of  one  man,  Mr.  N.,  ruling  such  a  great 
business,  etc.,  urging  him  to  make  a  stand,  upon  the  full  expec- 
tation that  the  others  will  all  follow,  etc.,  it  would  tend  to  pro- 
duce a  good  effect.  But  it  is  best  to  do  it  immediately.  Let 
him  know  that  you  feel  the  peculiar  propriety  of  addressing  him, 
considering  the  part  he  has  taken,  let  him  know  what  you  expect 
from  Connecticut  and  New  York  in  support  of  Theological  Sem- 
inary. I  am  thus  free,  and  particular,  because  I  know  the  state 
of  his  mind  and  your  candor. 

I  hope  to  see  Dr.  P.  at  Andover,  Wednesday  or  Thursday. 
If  you  will  go  to  Andover  Wednesday  night  or  Thursday  morn- 
ing, I  sliall  hope  to  meet  you  there,  which  I  wish  much. 


528       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

Your  letter  is  very  important.     I  fear  not  opposition  if  we 
can  unite. 

With  great  love  and  esteem,  and   affectionate  remembrance 
to  all  your  household,  I  am  yours  truly  and  unalterably, 

L.   WOODS. 

From  Dr.  Spring  to  Dr.  Morse. 

XEWBUBYPOBT,  Nov.  20,  1807. 

DEAR  BROTHER, — Have  we  not  given  opportunity  for  patience 
to  have  her  perfect  work?  Have  we  not  given  the  common 
enemy  too  much  time  to  plan  and  counteract  our  general  pur- 
pose ?  WTiy  are  we  any  longer  detained,  if  the  Visitatorial 
system,  or  committing  the  Foundation  to  the  Trustees  of  the 
Academy,  as  Mr.  Abbot  has  done,  be  the  sine  qua  non  of  coalition.  We 
have  examined  the  Visitatorial  System  and  are  generally  afraid  of  it. 
Please  to  tell  us  directly  whether  our  Board  of  Visitors,  or  Trus- 
tees, or  Overseers  shall  have  vested  in  them  the  right  of  electiDg 
our  Professors;  and  we  shall  know  what  to  answer.  I  think  if 
you  allow  us  the  independent  right  of  election,  our  difficulties 
will  be  removed,  at  least  in  a  measure.  The  last  official  meeting 
was  upon  this  secondary  system.  The  good  Lord  direct  us.  For 
the  ark  is  in  more  critical  circumstances  than  ever.  You  have 
liberty  to  read  this  letter  to  our  friend  and  brother  Dr.  Pearson; 
for  it  needs  much  chastening.  Please  to  accept  my  respects  and 
make  them  to  your  good  lady;  and  let  me  write  your  friend  and 
brother, 

S.  SPRING. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBUBYPORT,   Xov.  21,  1807. 

•BELOVED  SIR, — I  have  conversed  freely  with  Mr.  B.  and  B.  to- 
day. It  looks  like  fair  weather.  Mr.  B.  told  me  he  had  received 
your  letter — spoke  of  it  in  a  way  which  showed  pleasure.  Dr.  S. 
has  not  been  to  Salem  yet;  will  not  before  Thanksgiving.  'Tis 
a  favorable  Providence;  as  it  keeps  Mr.  N.  still,  till  Mr.  B.  and  B. 
shall  be  fixed  IMMOVABLY.  This,  I  have  high  hopes,  will  be  the 
case — and  then  Mr.  N.  will  not  stand  back.  If  he  does,  however, 
he  does; — that  is  all  I  can  say.  I  am  as  busy  as  a  bee — am  devoted 
to  the  one  great  object.  I  long  to  see  you — will  meet  you  at  An- 
dover  before  long.  I  should  not  object  to  the  day  after  Thanks- 
giving,— spending  the  night  there.  Send  word,  and  mention  an- 


APPENDIX.  529 

other  time,  if  you  prefer.  The  Lord  help  you  and  all.  Tis  His 
cause.  That  is  the  hope  and  the  joy.  With  great  love  and  es- 
teem, and  kind  remembrance  to  yours, 

L.  WOODS. 

P.  S. — I  write  in  great  haste,  merely  to  comfort  you  a  little. 
Farewell. 

From  Dr.  Morse  to  L.  Woods. 

CHABUESTOWN,  Nov.  21,  1807. 

MY  VERY  DEAR  FRIEND, — I  received  yours  of  the  17th,  and  to- 
day parted  with  Dr.  P.  at  11  o'clock.  I  would  gladly  have  met 
you  and  him  at  Andover,  but  the  weather  here  was  so  forbidding 
that  I  presumed  you  would  not  think  of  going.  It  was  worse  here, 
I  learn,  than  with  you.  I  have  agreed  to  go  (extraordinaries  ex- 

cepted)  on  Friday,  and  hope  Mrs.  W 's  circumstances  will  be 

such  as  will  permit  you  to  be  there.  The  attitude  of  affairs  is 
such  as  to  require  on  our  part  the  utmost  wisdom,  circumspection, 
energy,  promptitude  and  firmness.  I  am  not  discouraged  by  all 
the  unpromising  appearances.  The  darkest-  part  of  the  night  is 
just  before  the  dawn  of  day.  I  am  confident  the  Lord  is  accom- 
plishing a  great  work.  The  nature,  variety  and  magnitude  of  the 
difficulties  we  meet  with  in  our  progress  evince  it.  The  Lord 
would  not  have  conducted  us  thus  far  in  the  course  we  are  pur- 
suing (I  trust  with  a  single  view  to  His  glory),  if  He  had  not  in- 
tended we  should  proceed  till  our  object  shall  be  accomplished. 
That  it  is  a  great  and  good  one,  I  have  never  for  a  moment  enter- 
tained a  doubt.  It  is  fit  and  consonant  to  all  past  experience,  that 
we  should  encounter  great  difficulties  in  accomplishing  it.  It  is 
not  for  us  to  choose  of  what  sort  these  difficulties  shall  be.  In- 
finite wisdom  and  goodness  selects  the  fittest  for  His  purposes  and 
ours.  The  fire  through  which  we  are  passing,  if  we  are  wise,  will 
purify  us  and  make  us  shine  brighter.  I  have  written,  on  Wed- 
nesday evening,  to  Mr.  Bartlett,  as  you  desired,  confidentially;  I 
hope  in  such  a  manner  as  to  do  no  harm,  if  no  good.  I  wish  Mr. 
B.  would  show  you  his  letter.  You  will  learn  what  impression  it 
has  made;  let  me  know  in  your  next.  I  am  extremely  solicitous 
to  know  the  result  of  the  mission  to  Salem.  All  hearts  are  in  the 
hands  of  God,  and  He  can  turn  them,  if  we  cannot. 

I  have  examined  Gov.  Strong's  letter  and  Mr.  Bliss's  legal  opin- 
ion, with  the  Act  of  Incorporation,  and  am  astonished  to  find  that 
the  ground  for  union  on  the  Visitatorial  plan  is  so  clear  and  safe.  A 


530       HISTORY  OF  ANDOVER   THEOLOGICAL   SEMINARY. 

man  must  love  darkness  rather  than  light  that  does  not  see  it.  Other 
reasons  prevent  union. 

Monday  morning,  Nov.  23. 

I  intended  to  have  sent  this  by  this  morning's  stage,  but  could 
not  finish  it  last  evening, — shall  send  it  by  next  mail.  I  wrote  to 
Dr.  P.  Thursday  morning.  He  should  have  had  my  letter  before 
your  arrival — but  he  did  not  get  it  till  next  day.  I  gave  in  that 
letter  my  opinion,  that  you  and  he  had  better  accept  your  ap- 
pointments the  next  meeting  of  Trustees,  Dec.  2d,  and  be  installed 
without  delay,  and  make  a  beginning.  It  is  time  to  act.  Our 
delays  are  improved  by  opposers  to  our  disadvantage.  They 

strengthen  themselves  by  it.     I  am  persuaded  Dr. does  not 

act  for  us.  A  variety  of  circumstances  convince  me  that  he  is  "  a 
disappointed  man."  I  lament  his  situation — and  that  I  am  con- 
nected with  him  in  the  manner  I  am  in  the  Gazetteer.  I  will,  how- 
ever, hope  for  the  best.  I  have  had  a  letter  from  Mr.  D.,  its 
aspect  is  good,  and  looks  favorably  towards  you.  Should  we  fail 
of  union,  it  will  be  easy  and  safe  and  highly  expedient  that  you 

and  he  should  be  made  friends;  and  should  Mr.  B 1  come  with 

us,  that  he  and  Mr.  D.  should  also  be  made  friends;  in  this  case 
we  should  do  well.  Should  Dr.  S.  and  Mr.  N.  refuse  to  unite,  and 
Messrs.  B.  and  B.  could  go  with  us,  it  is  my  opinion  we  should  be 
stronger  than  with  them.  Dr.  S.  is  very  unpopular,  and  his  be- 
ing with  us  would  frighten  many  good  men.  Your  appointment 
I  do  not  find  alarms  this  way.  It  was  mentioned  at  our  last  As- 
sociation and  no  objection  was  made.  Dr.  Eckly '  expressly  ap- 
proved. Mr.  Channing  likes  it.  Dr.  Osgood,  Mr.  Bates,  Mr. 
Prentiss,  Mr.  Gr enough,  Dr.  Holmes,  etc.,  make  no  objection, 
and  some  expressly  approve.  You  will  unite  the  confidence  of  all 
Panoplist  men,  of  all  in  Connecticut  and  southward.  I  am  well 
persuaded  of  the  correctness  of  what  I  say.  You  will  also  bring 
with  you  a  number  of  your  candid  Hopkinsian  brethren,  who  have 
no  particular  interest  to  unite  with  other  side.  Should  they  go  on 

with  their  Institution  separately,  will  not  Mr.  W r  of  S m  be 

one  of  their  Professors?     Does  not  Dr. expect  to  be  another? 

Dr.  S.  may  countenance  such  hopes  to  aid  his  cause.  I  conjecture 
things  may  be  working  in  this  train  from  some  things  I  have  heard. 
Let  us  be  watchful  and  guard  against  unfounded  suspicions.  Oh, 
how  I  dislike  to  be  in  such  a  situation,  to  act  with  Christian 
brethren,  with  any  such  feelings.  I  will  hope  better  things.  I 

1  It  is  truly  laughable  that  this  good  man  should  tell  Mr.  Kneeland,  who 
told  Esqr.  Abbot,  that  I  was  opposed  to  your  election  ! ! ! ! 


APPENDIX.  531 

will  love  these  men,  for  I  verily  believe  them  to  be  Christians.  It 
is  a  time  of  temptation.  We  are  not  without  sin.  Let  us  forgive 
as  we  would  hope  to  be  forgiven,  and  pray  that  we  may  in  these 
trying  times  possess  and  exhibit  the  Christian  temper.  I  think  I 
do  sincerely  thus  pray.  I  desire  to  feel  and  do  right.  I  have 
great  trials.  But  blessed  be  God,  I  have  corresponding  supports. 
Shall  you  have  any  communications  for  next  Panoplist  ?  Wish 
you  to  furnish  one  or  two  short  original  pieces — take  from  some 
of  your  sermons.  We  have  nothing  yet  for  that  department — but 
enough  of  other  matter.  Send  early  next  month.  The  number 
for  this  month  finishes  to-morrow.  We  must  attend  amidst  all 
our  other  cares  to  keep  up  the  reputation  of  Panoplist.  Write  me 
on  the  receipt  of  this.  Hope  to  hear  good  news  of  Mrs.  W.  and 
of  the  result  at  Salem.  But  am  prepared  for  the  worst  as  to  the 

latter.     Pray  if  possible  secure  Mr.  B 1.     We  are  all  well  and 

send  much  love. 

Yours  most  affectionately  and  unalterably, 

J.  MOUSE. 

From  Dr.  Morse  to  Dr.  Spring. 

CHAELESTOWN,  Nov.  23,  1807. 

DEAR  BROTHER, — I  have  just  received  yours  of  the  20th.  I  had 
written  you  and  was  about  putting  it  into  the  office,  when  I  took 
out  yours.  I  put  it  into  a  new  draft  to  make  it  answer  to  yours. 
Patience  had  had  its  perfect  work.  The  adversaries  have  taken 
advantage  of  our  delay,  they  are  profiting  by  our  divisions  and 
jealousies.  To  prevent  their  success  and  our  defeat  we  must 
drop  these  jealousies  and  cordially  unite.  I  can  see  no  practicable 
scheme  of  union,  but  the  Visitatorial.  As  to  your  retaining  the 
right  of  electing  your  Professors,  though  at  first  view  it  seems 
to  render  you  more  secure,  it  really  will  lessen  your  security.  I 
think  this  capable  of  demonstration.  If  so,  you  surely  would  not 
wish  it.  You  will  come  to  us  at  first  not  only  with  your  funds, 
but  your  first  Professors.  They  may  live  many  years,  till  your 
board  of  Visitors  may  be  changed  in  its  complexion.  Should 
this  be  the  case,  your  security  is  gone,  and  though  we  remain 
correct,  we  shall  have  no  control  over  your  Board,  but  must  re- 
ceive their  Professors.  On  the  other  hand,  should  we  have  the 
right  of  election,  and  grow  corrupt,  and  your  Board  remain 
correct,  you  will  annul  our  election.  On  our  plan,  if  either  Board 
shall  retain  its  integrity  you  are  secure.  On  your  plan,  your  se- 
curity rests  alone  on  the  integrity  of  your  own  board.  I  can 


532       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY, 

perceive  no  fallacy  in  this  reasoning.  I  sliould  have  no  objec- 
tion to  your  independent  election  of  your  own  Professors,  pro- 
vided it  be  compatible  with  the  Visitatorial  system,  (and  I  know 
not  but  it  is)  and  also  the  best  and  safest  plan.  At  any  rate,  this 
should  by  no  means  be  a  parting  point.  You  ought,  I  think,  to 
yield  it,  if  we  cannot.  We  ought  to  yield  it,  if  you  cannot.  This 
thought  occurs  to  me  at  this  moment.  If  on  further  considera- 
tion, you  shall  still  think  it  necessary,  to  retain  the  right  of  elect- 
ing your  Professors,  (I  hope,  however,  you  will  perceive  with 
us,  it  will  be  best  to  give  it  up,  and  safest)  could  not  a  plan  of 
union  be  devised  in  which  that  point  shall  be  left  undecided — to 
be  a  subject  of  future  consideration — say  after  a  trial  of  five  or 
any  other  number  of  years.  As  you  will  come  with  your  Pro- 
fessors, who  we  hope  will  live  longer  than  the  term  fixed  on  for 
decision,  it  will  not  be  necessary  to  decide.  This  matter  can  be 
so  left,  that  you  will  not  be  considered  as  relinquishing  that 
right,  and  should  a  vacancy  occur  within  the  time  fixed,  let  it  be 
understood,  that  you  are  to  fill  it.  I  suggest  this  merely  as  an 
expedient  to  prevent  any  further  delay  of  union.  It  is  a  new 
thought  of  the  moment,  and  of  course  requires  consideration  be- 
fore it  is  adopted, 

I  shall  see  Dr.  Pearson  on  Friday,  and  will  communicate 
your  letter,  and  confer  with  him  and  other  gentlemen  on  the 
subject. 

Most  heartily  do  I  unite  with  you  in  praying  that  the  "  good 
Lord  will  direct  us,"  and  in  the  opinion  that  "  the  ark  is  in  more 
critical  circumstances  than  ever."  "United  we  stand,  divided 
we  fall ! "  But  the  union  must  be  real  and  cordial,  not  mingled 
with  jealousies  and  envy.  These  must  be  banished.  The  business 
of  our  union  must  be  managed  by  the  hands  of  the  new,  and  not 
of  the  old  man  within  us.  I  long  to  possess  and  to  have  to  do 
only  with  Christian  feelings  and  views  in  the  management  of 
this  great  business  in  which  the  glory  of  God  and  the  best  interests 
of  men  are  so  deeply  concerned. 

I  am  yours,  etc., 

J.  MOESE. 

P.  S. — Please  to  show  this  to  the  Donors. 


From  Dr.  Spring  to  Mr.  Norris. 

NEWBTJRTPOBT,  Nov.  23,  1807. 

HONOKABLE  FsiEND, — I  hope  you   enjoy   the  light    of   God's 
countenance.     I  hope  you  know  by  comfortable  evidence  of  ex- 


APPENDIX.  533 

perience,  the  real  comfort  of  godly  sorrow,  which  makes  the  re- 
pentance which  needeth  not  to  be  repented  of,  because  it  leads 
the  soul  to  embrace  Christ  upon  the  self-denying  principles  of 
the  gospel.  For  neither  selfishness  nor  self-love  takes  one  step 
towards  a  holy  Saviour,  who  came  to  save  men  from  selfishness 
or  sin.  Alas !  how  can  they  believe  who  receive  honor  one  from 
another  and  seek  not  the  honor  which  cometh  from  God  alone  ? 
True  religion  is  unselfish  and  disinterested.  It  values,  it  esti- 
mates all  objects,  not  excepting  our  own  souls,  according  to  their 
own  worth  to  the  universe.  Eeligion  reckons  and  computes  correct- 
ly, like  accurate  merchants.  This  temper  we  need  relative  to  an 
Academy  or  a  Theological  Institution.  Things  are  now  dark,  but 
if  we  wait  on  God  and  possess  our  souls  in  patience,  we  shall 
have  light,  and  know  what  is  most  pleasing  to  Christ.  I  now  send 
on  Judge  Bliss's  opinion.  If  we  could  retain  in  our  Board  of 
Visitors  forever  the  right  of  electing  Professors,  I  should  not  be 
afraid  of  the  Visitatorial  system.  Let  us,  my  friend,  be  firm,  and 
be  our  own  Committee.  We  can't  be  perplexed  with  the  sayings 
of  others  who  think  that  they  ought  to  have  been  consulted  from 
the  beginning.  It  is  probable  we  must  coalesce,  but  let  us  take 
care,  and  get  the  best  conditions  of  union.  If  we  do  this,  and 
choose  the  right  men  for  Professors,  we  shall,  I  think,  have  more 
extensive  influence  than  we  shall  command  alone.  If  our  Pro- 
fessors, in  company  with  Brother  Woods,  cannot  have  proper  in- 
fluence in  the  Seminary,  I  shall  think  that  God  is  about  to 
forsake  us.  Let  us  pray  more,  let  us  be  still,  but  yet  vigilant,  let 
us  act  wisely,  and  impartially. 

If  the  weather  be  favorable  we  intend  to  dine  at  Brother 
Walker's  on  Friday,  and  lodge  with  you  and  keep  Sabbath,  etc. 
Please  to  accept  and  make  our  love  and  grateful  respects  to  your 
lady.  I  shall  call  on  Brother  Emerson.  If  you  see  him  please 
hint  our  intention, 

From  your  friend  and  brother, 

S.  SPRING. 

From  Mr.  Bartlett  to  Dr.  Church. 

NEWBURTPOBT,  Nov.  25,  1807. 

REV.  SIR, — I  received  your  favor  of  the  21st  inst.,  and  note  its 
contents.  The  proposed  union  with  the  Andover  Academy  to  set 
up  a  Theological  Seminary  has  been  much  of  late  talked  of,  and 
many  embarrassments  are  thrown  in  the  way,  but  I  hope  and 
believe  they  will  all  be  removed,  and  that  union  will  take  place; 


534       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

and  liope  our  mutual  friend  Mr.  Norris  will  get  over  his  difficul- 
ties. The  Providential  purposes  of  the  Donors  being  nearly  at 
the  same  time  fixed  to  give  a  sum  of  money  for  the  Theological 
Seminary,  and  their  coming  together  and  determining  to  put 
their  money  into  one  fund;  seems  to  me  as  insurmountable  to  our 
separating.  I  have  the  fullest  confidence  in  most  of  the  gentle- 
men who  compose  the  Andover  trust,  and  believe  they  are  sincere 
in  their  proposal  of  a  union;  as  a  proof  of  it,  they  have  appointed 
the  man  for  their  Professor,  whom  we  most  certainly  should  have 
chosen;  this  choice,  I  think,  is  a  great  inducement  for  us  to  unite, 
and  be  a  Board  of  Visitors;  it  seems  to  me  that  Providence  has 
made  this  offer,  and  we  ought  carefully  to  examine  before  we  pass 
it  by  and  reject  it,  and  hinder  what  we  profess  to  set  up.  I  am 
rejoiced  to  hear  that  so  many  of  the  gentlemen  of  your  acquaint- 
ance have  given  you  their  opinion  in  favor  of  a  union;  it  confirms 
me  more  and  more.  Great  allowances  ought  to  be  made  for  my 
minister's  being  jealous  of  the  truth  being  mixed  with  error;  you 
are  sensible  that  he  has  had  many  hard  things  said  of  him  and 
his  doctrine,  and  he  is  willing  to  see  things  in  this  matter  very 
sure,  before  he  yields  to  the  union;  he  is  on  his  guard,  lest  a  per- 
version should  take  place ;  and  I  think,  we  ought  all  so  to  be ;  for 
the  enemy  is  breaking  in  like  a  flood;  few,  very  few,  stand  forth 
and  oppose  the  great  infidelity  that  is  prevailing  through  our  land 
at  this  day;  and  when  we  do  meet  with  any  that  will  step  forth 
and  stand  in  the  gap,  they  ought  to  be  supported  by  all  the  friends 
of  ,  .i  >'i. 

I  thank  you,  Rev.  Sir,  for  your  friendly  communication,  I  wish 
I  might  if  possible  rightly  improve  the  many  undeserved  favors 
I  am  made  the  possessor  of.  I  ought  to  know  that  I  have  to 
account  for  them  all.  That  I  may  be  sensible  of  the  end  for  which 
they  are  given  me,  this  would  be  arriving  at  a  high  degree  of  knowl- 
edge. However,  this  I  know,  that  the  Giver  of  every  favor  has 
told  us,  that  His  glory  ought  to  be  our  highest  aim, — that  all  things 
will  be  made  to  serve  the  highest  good.  That  my  heart  may  be 
fixed  on  right  objects,  if  I  do  not  deceive  myself,  is  my  sincere  de- 
sire. Wishing  you  all  the  blessings  you  and  your  friends  through- 
out the  world  stand  in- need  of, 

I  remain,  most  sincerely  your  friend  and  humble  servant, 

WM.  BAKTLETT. 


APPENDIX.  535 

From  Mr.  Barllett  to  Mr.  Norris. 

NEWBUKYPOBT,   Nov.  26,  1807. 

DEAR  SIR, — Since  I  had  the  pleasure  of  seeing  you  here  my 
mind  has  been  much  occupied  on  the  great  business  we  are  en- 
gaged in,  viz.,  that  of  setting  up  our  Theological  school,  and  the 
way  we  are  to  proceed.  I  thought  when  you  presented  the  Act  of 
Incorporation  of  Phillips  Academy,  that  the  way  was  hedged  up, 
and  that  we  could  not  unite  upon  safe  ground;  but  reflecting,  and 
hearing  opinions  of  others,  more  knowing  than  myself,  I  am  led 
to  think  we  can.  The  gentlemen  Trustees  wish  to  give  us  every- 
thing, that  will  make  us  safe  as  to  the  great  object  we  are  aiming 
at;  and  if  insisted  on,  I  think  they  will  concede  to  us  the  right  of 
electing  our  Professors.  That  a  union  is  preferable,  I  am  fully 
persuaded.  It  will  be  best,  I  think,  if  we  are  pursuing  rightly  the 
great  and  glorious  object,  viz.,  that  of  promoting  the  knowledge 
and  the  spreading  of  the  gospel  of  peace,  which  I  trust  we  are.  As 
to  the  difficulties  of  our  uniting  with  Phillips  Academy,  is  it  not 
solved  in  your  opinion  by  the  explanation  of  Mr.  Bliss  ?  I  think 
he  reasons  well  on  the  subject;  and  should  you  think  with  me  and 
Mr.  Brown,  who  both  of  us  wish  and  desire  you  to  be  fully  satis- 
fied, what  hinders  us  from  having  the  business  fixed  immediately? 
Mr.  Spring  will  be  the  bearer  of  this,  who  fully  knows  my  mind. 
Life  is  uncertain,  infidelity  holds  up  its  head,  sin  and  wickedness 
increasing,  the  friends  of  truth  few,  and  those  few  are  borne  down 
by  a  scoffing  multitude.  Pray  sir,  let  us  do  in  the  great  cause  of 
the  gospel  which  is  freely  offered  to  us,  as  much  as  the  path  of 
duty  points  out. 

"Wishing  you  and  all  the  friends  of  Zion  the  happiest  blessings 
you  stand  in  need  of,  I  am,  dear  sir,  with  great  esteem,  your  friend 
and  humble  servant, 

WM.  BARTLETT. 

From  L.   Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

Nov.  30,  1807. 

VERY  BELOVED  SIR, — Since  I  returned  from  Andover  Saturday 
night,  I  have  been  full  of  employment.  Yesterday  I  preached  ex- 
temporaneously, which  was  somewhat  fatiguing,  as  I  always  protract 
such  performances  to  an  unusual  length.  In  all  my  vacant  hours 
have  I  thought  of  nothing  but  one  great  object.  As  appearances  are 
more  favor  able, 'tis  natural  for  our  hopes  to  be  more  animated  and  de- 
lightful. To-day  I  have  been  engaged  in  writing  to  Mr.  Brown.  Two 


536       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

letter  sheets  on  all  four  sides  contain  my  thoughts.  I  have  done 
the  best  I  could  as  to  Visitatorial  scheme  in  general,  and  as  to  the 
elective  power  in  particular.  I  expect  to  send  it  in  the  morn- 
ing. I  wait  with  great  concern  to  hear  from  you  respecting  the 
state  of  things  at  Salem,  mean  to  go  down  to-morrow  to  find  your 
letter  and  to  see  the  gentlemen.  As  the  time  seems  to  draw  near 
when  I  am  to  give  my  answer  to  the  all-important  appointment, 
it  seems  proper  that  I  should  attend  a  little  to  the  conditions. 
And  here,  my  dearest  sir,  let  me  say  your  friendship  relieves  me 
of  a  great  burden.  Your  kind,  and  I  have  no  doubt  your  most 
sincere  assurance,  that  I  should  find  in  you  a  friend  and  brother 
in  this  whole  affair,  deeply  affects  me,  as  your  friendship  often  has. 
I  shall  drop  only  a  few  hints  which  you  may  improve  as  your  pru- 
dence directs.  If  you  think  proper  to  write  to  Esquire  Abbot 
you  may  mention  to  him  just  what  you  please. 

I.  It  is  not  to  be  supposed  that  my  salary  here,  consisting  of 
four  hundred  dollars,  a  parsonage  worth  twenty-five  dollars,  wood 
fifty  dollars,  and  interest  of  settlement  thirty  dollars,  amounting  to 
more  than  five  hundred  dollars,  is  all  the  income  I  had.     Gifts 
have  added  one  hundred  dollars,  and  what  has  come  in  other  ways 
for  two  years  has  raised  it  to  eight  hundred  dollars. 

II.  My  family  is  increasing.     Three  sons,  if  they  live,  and  one 
daughter,  will  soon  make  a  great  addition  to  my  annual  expenses. 

III.  We  must  have  more  domestic  help  than  we  have  had  in 
proportion  as  our  situation  will  be  more  public,  and  my  atten- 
tion to  my  domestic  affairs  less;  double  the  fuel  also.     Taking 
these  and  other  things  into  consideration,  I  have  no  idea  that 
two  hundred  dollars  will  equal  the  additional  expenditure  of  the 
year. 

IV.  I  wish  it  to  be  remembered  that  I  am  sensible  of  the 
weight  and  responsibility  of  the  office  to  which  I  am  called,  and  of 
my  own  want  of  qualifications,  and  that  I  cannot  consistently  en- 
ter into  the  office,  without  a  prospect  of  such  a  support  that  I 
can  devote  myself  to  my  studies  and  other  duties  without  distrac- 
tion or  interruption  from  my  worldly  affairs.      This  is  my  object. 

V.  It  is  of  importance  to  the  reputation  of  the  Seminary  that 
the  salaries  should  be  adequate  to  the  decent  and  honorable  sup- 
port of  the  Professors. 

VI.  The  other  salaries  will  expect  to  be  regulated  by  mine,  or 
else  an  uncomely  distinction  will  be  made.    I  should  not  care  for 
the  distinction,  except  as  it  respects  the  dignity  of  my  office. 

VII.  It  will  not  be  wise  to  depend  upon  "  my  father's"  private 
generosity;  for  who  knows  how  long  his  life  may  be  spared. 


APPENDIX.  537 

YIIL  There  are  some  in  the  Board  who  cannot  be  expected 
to  act  a  very  friendly,  liberal  part  in  this  matter,  and  therefore  it 
may  be  best,  yea,  necessary,  that  Esquire  Abbot  make  known  his 
request  expressly  to  the  Board. 

IX.  If  houses  could  be  built  by  the  Trustees  for  the  Profess- 
ors it  would  add  to  the  beauty  of  the  Seminary,  and  to  the  con- 
venience of  the  Professors,  and  be  an  alluring  circumstance  to 
those  who  shall  be  appointed  from  time  to  time. 

X.  I  should  wish  that  the  term  or  duration  of  my  salary  should 
be  more  fully  and  unambiguously  defined. 

XI.  All  these  things  had  better  be  done  at  the  beginning,  and 
fully  understood,  so  that  no  after  question  may  arise.     I  will  add 
that  my  mind  is  not  prepared  to  accept  the  appointment  be- 
fore this  subject  is  attended  to.     I  say  this  to  you  only  and  should 
be  glad  never  to  suggest  it  to  any  mortal  besides.     N.  B. — If  the 
union  takes  place  there  will  be  no  want  of  money. 

I  shall  be  glad  of  friendly  hints  and  free  advice  from  you.  I 
shall  now  close  till  I  get  something  new  to  communicate  on  the 
great  subject.  The  Lord  be  with  you  and  with  your  friends  who 
are  with  you  to-night.  I  wish  that  Jesus  may  make  one  of  your 
company,  and  let  you  know  what  is  His  pleasure  concerning  the 
union  and  every  other  measure.  What  will  be  the  exercises  at 
inauguration  ?  If  a  sermon  is  to  be  preached,  I  move  that  Dr. 
Dwight  be  requested  to  do  it.  There  may  be  a  peculiar  propriety 
in  it,  as  he  is  President  and  Professor  of  Divinity  and  has  great  in- 
fluence in  Connecticut  and  to  the  southward.  Must  not  Dr.  Pear- 
son be  ordained  when  he  is  inaugurated?  Or  will  his  ordina- 
tion be  implied  in  his  inauguration?  A  Professor  of  Divinity 
must  be  in  orders.  Will  the  Professors  have  any  performance  al- 
loted  them  for  the  time  of  inauguration  ? 

Dec.  3,  late  at  night. 

I  feel  a  great  desire  to  see  you  and  think  it  not  unlikely  that 
I  may  come  next  Tuesday  or  Wednesday  or  perhaps  Monday,  and 
spend  a  day  with  you  doing  for  Panoplist,  and  in  conversation 
to  which  I  think  there  can  be  no  end.  You  will  pay  some  atten- 
tion I  hope  to  the  above,  as  soon  as  you  can.  I  wish  for  the  in- 
fluence it  may  have  on  the  other  side.  If  Esqr.  A.  builds  a  house 
for  his  Professor,  depend  upon  it  Dr.  S.  will  exert  himself  to 
have  the  same  done  for  their  two,  and  Messrs.  B.  and  B.  will  not 
be  backward.  Besides  Dr.  S.  has  other  things  to  touch  6*n  the 
subject  of  donations.  Now  is  the  time  for  the  business  t9  be  set 
out  well.  If  the  Professors  are  all  provided  for,  they  will  have 


538       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

no  excuse  if  they Mr.  is  confined  with  a  sprained  ankle 

which  is  likely  to  be  very  troublesome,  as  I  hear.  Amiable  letters 
pass  between  us.  There  will,  I  imagine,  be  no  difficulty.  But  the 
business  must  be  deferred — till  more  important  business  is 
settled.  He  must  be  treated  with  love  and  candor  mingled  with 
prudence  and  caution. 

Adieu,  dear  sir.  May  grace  be  with  you.  Eemember  us 
very  kindly  and  joyfully  to  Mrs.  Morse,  Madam  B.  and  daughter 
and  the  rest,  and  also  Deacon  Warren.  Tell  him  to  keep  the 
letters  and  all  till  I  come. 

I  never  closed  a  letter  with  such  a  joyful  heart  and  never 
more  sincerely  subscribed  myself  your  friend  and  grateful 
obedient  servant, 

L.  WOODS. 

Dec.  1,  1807. 
General  principles  of  union  on  Visitatorial  plan. 

1.  Upon   serious   and   mature    deliberation   it   appears,    that 
union,  founded  on  Visitatorial  principles,  will  be  safe,  honorable, 
and  effectual;  and  that  the  power  and  influence  of  a  Board  of 
Visitors  will  be   as  commanding  and   extensive,   as  that  of  any 
Board  of  Trustees.     (See  the  papers,  numbers  1  and  2.) 

2.  It  is  mutually  understood,  that  there  shall  be  one  common 
and    permanent    creed,    viz.,    that    exhibited    by    the    Andover 
Associates    in    their    late    conference    with    the    gentlemen    at 
Newburyport. 

3.  It  is  mutually  understood,  that  the  Donors,  Messrs.  Brown, 
Bartlett  and  Norris,  shall  have  the  liberty  and  right  of  support- 
ing two  Professors,  one  of  whom  shall  be  a  Professor  of  Eevealed 
Religion,  and  as  many  students,  as  the  income   of  their  funds 
will  maintain. 

4.  It  is  mutually  understood,  that  the  Donors  have  the  sole 
right  of  prescribing  their  own  statutes  in  consistency  with  the 
object  and  general  regulations  of  the  Institution. 

5.  The  Visitatorial  system  is  understood  to  place  the  power 
of  choosing  Professors   in  the  Trustees;  but   that  the  Visitors 
possess  the  right  of  approving  or  negativing  their  elections. 

6.  Upon  the  death,  resignation,  or  removal  of  a  Professor,  a 
successor  shall  be   chosen   within  six  months;    arid   if  the  first 
election  be  negatived,  another  choice  shall  be  made,  which  shall 
be     approved   by    the     Visitors,     Toties    quoties — within    twelve 
months  from  the  commencement  of  the  vacancy. 


APPENDIX.  539 

7.  No  student  shall  be  placed  on  this  foundation,  who  has 
not    been    previously    recommended     by    our    Committee    and 
appointed  by  the  Visitors. 

8.  It  is  understood  that  the  tuition  of  all  the  students  in  the 
Seminary  shall  be  gratis. 

9.  The  funds  of  the  Associate  Founders  shall  be  preserved 
forever  distinct  from  all  the  other  funds  whatever,  without  being 
blended  with  any  other  property,  by  exchange,  sale,   purchase, 
loan  or  otherwise — and  separate  accounts  kept  by  the  Treasurer — 
and  books  and  all  evidence  of  property  kept  in  a  separate  trunk 
or  box  prepared  for  prompt  removal  in  case*  of  any  emergence. 

10.  It  is  mutually  understood  that  the  Associate*Pounders  de- 
fray one  half  the  expense  of  the  necessary  buildings  and  Library 
of  the  Seminary. 

11.  The  statutes  of  the  Founders,  and  the  covenant  between 
the  Founders  and  the  Trustees,  shah1  be  submitted  to  the  exam- 
ination  and  approbation  of  two  gentlemen  learned  in  the  law, 
mutually  chosen  by  the  parties,  viz.,  by  the  Associate  Founders 
and  the  Trustees  aforesaid. 

It  is  mutually  understood  that  the  proposed  coalition  com- 
mences with  the  ardent  hope,  that  the  sacred  cause  of  evangelical 
truth  will  be  thereby  most  effectually  promoted,  and  that  this 
connection,  after  an  experiment  of  seven  years,  will  terminate  in 
a  perfect  and  indissoluble  union. 

ELIPHALET  PEARSON, 
JEDIDIAH  MORSE, 
SAMUEL  SPRING. 
CHABLESTOWN,  Dec.  1,  1807. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBUKY,  Friday,  Dec.  .  .  .  1807. 

EEV.  AND  BELOVED  SIR, — I  arrived  Wednesday  night,  having  left 
Dr.  S.  at  Andover  to  finish  the  business.  The  forenoon  of  Wed- 
nesday I  spent  very  pleasantly  with  Esqr.  Abbot,  Mr.  French,  Mr. 
Kneeland,  Esqr.  F.  and  Mr.  Newman.  As  I  was  leaving  my  father 
Abbot,  an  opportunity  offered  which  I  knew  not  how  to  neglect, 
to  introduce  the  subject  of  house.  He  spoke  very  kindly, — said 
they  should  not  ask  me  to  come  there  without  providing  a 
house  for  me  to  live  in, — mentioned  the  one  which  Mr.  Newman 
formerly  occupied  which  belongs  to  the  Board, — said  that  would 
do  for  the  present,  etc.  But  nothing  was  said  by  either  of  us, 
whether  the  use  of  the  house  should  be  added'  to  the  salary  al- 


540       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

ready  voted,  or  what  conveniences  there  were  in  the  house.  This 
I  wish  you  to  ascertain.  I  would  know  whether  they  will  in  addi- 
tion, find  me  a  decent  and  comfortable  house,  with  the  other  ac- 
commodations usually  pertaining  to  a  house,  as  barn,  wood  house, 
chaise  house,  etc.  How  is  it  with  the  house  referred  to  ?  If  this 
could  be  determined  and  communicated  to  me  before  the  Trustee 
meeting,  (which  Dr.  Pearson  says  cannot  be  so  soon  as  you  pro- 
posed,) I  should  have  no  objection  to  preparing  my  answer  to  be 
communicated  at  the  close  of  next  meeting,  if  things  issue  happily. 
Perhaps  doing  it  then  will  expedite  the  business,  and  save  the 
necessity  of  another  meeting  for  the  purpose.  Should  you  return 
through  Andorer,  you  might  converse  withEsqr.  A.  and  others,  if  you 
think  best,  on  the  subject,  and  give  me  as  seasonable  information 
as  you  can,  and  the  freest  advice.  My  mind  begins  to  be  earnest, 
for  the  consummation  of  the  Institution.  The  scene  with  my 
people  is  tender  and  solemn,  and  probably  the  difficulties  and 
pains  attending  the  separation  will  be  almost  insupportable.  I 
can  do  but  little  before  that  is  past.  And  if  there  is  a  house 
ready,  it  may  be  best  to  remove  as  soon  as  circumstances  admit. 
Think  for  me,  and  counsel  me  in  all  things. 

I  send  three  pieces.  The  arguments  of  Venema  quoted  by 
Candidus,  as  to  the  author  of  the  Epistle  to  the  Hebrews,  deserves 
attention,  but  requires  caution.  I  have  tried  to  temper  it,  by  the 
note  at  the  close.  The  other  pieces  do  very  well.  This  may  do 
for  correspondents: — 

"  The  Editors  feel  under  great  obligations  to  Candidus  for  the 
assistance  his  communication  affords,  in  preparing  a  sketch  of 
Calvin's  life.  His  diligence  and  fidelity  deserve  commendation." 

My  family  is  very  comfortable.  If  I  could  know  when  you 
will  be  at  Newburyport  I  would  endeavor  to  see  you  there. 
With  growing  esteem,  and  the  most  happy  confidence, 

I  am,  dear  sir,  yours, 

L.  WOODS. 

From  Dr.  Church  to  Mr.  Norris. 

PELHAM,  N.  H.,  Dec.  8,  1807. 

KESPECTED  SIR, — It  is  a  great  and  good  cause  in  which  you  are 
engaged.  For  this  cause  thousands  and  thousands  have  devoted 
not  only  their  property,  but  also  their  lives.  Blessed  be  the 
Lord  that  you  are  disposed  to  co-operate  with  the  hosts  of  the 
Lord's  chosen,  in  building  up  Zion.  How  pleasing  to  look  round 
and  see  what  the  Lord  is  doing  by  the  instrumentality  of  His  re- 


APPENDIX.  541 

deemed  people.  He  inspires  them  with  love,  wisdom  and  zeal  to 
devise  liberal  things  for  His  church.  I  am  happy  that  you  #re 
associated  with  those  who  are  so  deeply  engaged  to  promote  the 
edification  of  the  body  of  Christ,  and  the  increase  of  His  kingdom. 
Be  not  discouraged,  dear  sir.  The  Lord,  I  trust,  is  about  to  ac- 
complish some  important  designs  for  His  cause,  here  in  New 
England.  Many  Providential  occurrences  wear  a  pleasing  aspect. 

0  that  we  may  abound  in  humility,  faith  and  prayer,  and  have 
that  wisdom  which  is  from  above.     It  is  a  day  of  darkness  and 
distress  as  it  respects  nations.     But  Zion  will  live.     His  kingdom 
cannot  be  shaken.     Here,  my  dear  friend,  we  shall  find  an  ark 
of  safety,  if  Jesus  be  indeed  our  Lord  and  King.     The  Lord  bless 
you  and  your  worthy  partner  with  all  the  blessings  of  His  ever- 
lasting kingdom. 

In  love,  I  remain  your  friend  and  humble  servant, 

JOHN  H.  CHUKCH. 

From  Esqr.  Farrar  to  Dr.  Church. 

ANDOVEB,  Dec.  12,  1807. 

KEV.  AND  DEAR  SIR, — Deacon  Barker  has  just  now  called  with 
a  letter  from  you,  and  waits  while  I  write  a  few  lines  in  return. 

1  thank  you  very  sincerely  for  your  favor.     The  interest  that  you 
take  in  the  great  and  important  work,  in  which  we  have  engaged, 
gives  me  much  pleasure.     Your  ideas  of  the  importance  of  the 
Institution  contemplated,  fully  accord  with  my  own,  and  so  like- 
wise as  to  union.     The  value  of  the  Institution  depends,  in  my 
mind,   wholly  upon  the  union.     Clearly  it  appears  to  me,   the 
cause  of  truth  and  godliness  would  be  injured,  rather  than  pro- 
moted, by  two  separate  Institutions.     The  evils  of  two  Institutions 
have  so  multiplied,  and  been  so  magnified  in  my  mind,  the  more 
I  have  contemplated  it  in  that  view,  that  it  has  filled  me  with 
anxiety  and  dread.     But,  sir,  with  much  pleasure  I  am  able  to  in- 
form you,  that  things  appear  to  be  working  towards  a  union.     I 
hope  on  such  principles,  as  will  render  the  coalescence  permanent 
and  happy.     Dr.  Spring  has  been  with  Dr.  Pearson  most  of  the 
present  week  on  that  subject,  and  they  have  nearly  prepared  the 
business,   provided  the  Donors  approve,  to  be  laid  before  the 
Trustees  of  the  Academy,  for  their  acceptance.     I  fear  that  there 
may  be  some  opposition  in  our  board.     Much  I  think  will  depend 
upon  the  characters  they  nominate  for  their  Professors.     I  hope 
they  will  be  influenced  in  some  measure  by  the  example  set  be- 
fore them  by  Esqr.  Abbot  to  adopt  conciliatory  measures.     Much 


HTSTOT7T    OF    AXDOVRR    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

will  depend  on  the  setting  out  of  the  business.  "With  a  mutual  dis- 
covery of  a  disposition  to  harmonize  and  accommodate,  and  to  study 
the  things  which  make  for  peace,  I  have  no  doubt  of  the  most  cor- 
dial and  happy  union.  If  that  can  be  done,  it  will  be  a  blessed 
thing  for  the  churches  and  people  of  our  land.  It  is,  dear  sir,  a 
great  work.  Those  who  are  concerned  in  its  establishment  have 
need  of  the  constant  and  fervent  prayers  of  ah1  the  friends  of  Zion. 
The  Constitution,  the  principles,  the  arrangements,  which  are  now 
making,  are  inconceivably  important.  Finis  originependet,  the  motto 
upon  our  Academy  seal,  is  extremely  pertinent  to  the  present  case. 
I  hope  most  earnestly  that  the  business  may  be  commenced  and 
prosecuted  with  a  spirit  of  conciliation  and  harmony,  and  thus 
issue  in  great  good  to  the  world,  and  that  the  great  Head  of  the 
church  may  afford  His  guidance  and  blessing. 

Yours,  sir,  respectfully, 

S.  FAKBAR. 

P.  S. — I  have  not  time  to  copy  Mr.  Bliss's  opinion,  and  have  no 
spare  copy.  I  shah1  be  glad  to  let  you  have  it  the  first  opportunity. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Church. 

NEWBUBY,  Dec.  .  .  .  1807,  Sabbath  evening,  9  o'clock. 

VERY  DEAR  BROTHER, — Since  you  went  from  my  house  last, 
very  interesting  events  have  taken  place  in  my  family,  and  re- 
specting the  Seminary.  The  day  after  you  left  us  we  had  a  son 
born.  Mrs.  W.  has  been  favored  with  very  comfortable  health; 
the  child  is  well;  and  the  rest  of  my  family.  How  solemn  the 
birth  of  a  child !  one  added  to  the  number  of  immortals,  one  to 
be  forever  happy  or  miserable,  and  so  much  depending  on  parents 
so  unfaithful.  The  Lord  help  us.  I  had  a  struggle  in  my  mind 
this  evening — whether  it  was  not  too  much  to  ask  God  to  save  all 
my  children.  I  could  not  ask  it  for  my  sake.  But  I  saw  that  it 
was  not  too  great  for  God  to  bestow,  and  that  I  might  ask  it  for 
His  infinite  mercy's  sake  through  Jesus  Christ. 

As  to  the  Seminary;  since  you  were  here  things  have  taken  a 
most  favorable  course.  Your  letter  had  its  effect,  and  with  other 
things  conspired  to  establish  Mr.  B.'s  mind,  and  to  render  him 
explicit  and  decided.  Dr.  S.  went  to  Charlestown  with  written 
powers  from  the  three  Donors,  to  establish  a  union,  upon  the  best 
conditions  he  could  obtain.  A  fortnight  ago  to-morrow  night  at 
12  o'clock  Dr.  S.  with  Dr.  P.  and  Dr.  M.  signed  cordially,  the  pre- 
liminaries of  union  upon  Visitatorial  plan.  Last  week  he  spent 


APPENDIX.  543 

mostly  with  Dr.  P.  at  Andover,  in  preparing  the  Constitution, 
Statutes,  etc.,  of  the  Donors,  to  be  laid  before  the  Trustees,  at 
their  next  meeting;  when,  if  Providence  continue  to  favor,  the 
union  will  be  consummated.  It  is  expected  the  Associate  Donors 
will  find  a  Library.  The  events  of  Providence  are  remarkable 
and  astonishing.  God  has  appeared  for  us,  when  hope  and 
human  help  failed.  He  has  turned  darkness  into  light,  He  has 
raised  us  up  from  the  horrible  pit  and  miry  clay.  I  review  His 
operations  with  wonder,  and  I  hope,  with  gratitude.  The  whole 
course  of  things  has  been  so  ordered,  as  to  make  His  hand  visible, 
and  to  show  us,  that  we  can  do  nothing  without  Him.  I  think  we 
are  now  coming  together  in  the  most  happy  manner.  The  friend- 
ship between  Dr.  P.  and  Dr.  S.  is  very  great,  Dr.  Morse  feels  very 
affectionately  toward  Dr.  S.,  and  all  looks  promising.  The  Boston 
members  of  the  Board  will  oppose  the  coalition,  and,  as  they  will 
be  unsuccessful,  I  suppose  they  will  retire.  The  meeting  for  the 
business  will  be  the  last  week  in  this  month.  Immediately  after 
that,  I  suppose  it  will  be  expected  that  I  should  seek  a  dismission. 
This  subject  now  oppresses  my  heart  exceedingly.  Sometimes, 
I  am  almost  ready  to  think,  I  cannot  consistently  leave  my 
people  who  now  appear  more  affectionate  than  ever.  I  remem- 
ber my  unfaithfulness  with  sorrow,  and  find,  I  cannot  comfortably 
meet  my  people  hereafter,  unless  Infinite  grace  pardon  my  sins. 
Oh  to  be  directed  in  this  momentous  concern  by  God's  Spirit !  I 
can  sometimes  pray,  that  if  God  sees  it  to  be  best  for  His  cause,  I 
may  be  kept  here.  Were  not  the  events  of  Providence  very  re- 
markable respecting  my  call,  and  were  not  the  Institution  devoted 
to  the  interest  of  Zion,  I  could  not  think  of  leaving  my  dear  flock. 
My  mind,  after  being  freed  from  other  cares  and  pressures,  is 
more  pressed  with  this  subject,  than  it  has  been  before.  I  long 
to  see  you  that  our  joys  may  be  mingled  on  account  of  what  has 
taken  place,  and  that  we  may  confer  freely  on  all  that  is  before 
us.  Do  visit  me  as  soon  as  you  can.  Remember  us  dutifully  to 
your  parents,  and  accept  with  your  amiable  wife  our  fraternal 
love  and  esteem,  . 

Yours  truly, 

L.  WOODS. 

From  Dr.  Spring  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBUBTPOBT,  Dec.  20,  1807. 

DEAR  BROTHER, — Let  the  cause  of  the  disappointment  be  what 
it  may,  the  want  of  sufficient  attention,  design,  or  whatever,  it  is 


544       HISTORY  OF  ANDOVER   THEOLOGICAL   SEMINARY. 

a  fact  that  even  Mr.  Brown  and  Mr.  Bartlett  are  deeply  disap- 
pointed upon  finding  the  whole  right  of  electing  the  Professor 
of  Christian  Theology  is  vested  in  the  Andover  Trust.  Mr.  Bart- 
lett feels  most  keenly  on  the  subject.  He  says  he  was  pleased 
with  the  election  of  Mr.  "Woods,  and  from  a  desire  to  promote 
coalition  did  not  as  it  were  consider  him  mortal.  Now,  sir,  how 
must  the  difficulty  be  removed.  The  seven  years'  experiment 
must  not  be  considered  a  remedy.  For  it  is  not.  Had  it  not  been 
for  the  blind  put  before  the  eyes  of  the  Associates  by  the  election 
of  Mr.  Woods,  they  would  have  rejected  the  idea  of  union  on  the 
principle  of  the  department  of  Christian  Theology  being  left  under 
the  exclusive  control  of  the  Trustees.  For  considering  the  weight 
of  the  Associate  Foundation  it  ought  not  so  to  be.  You  will  feel 
that  some  measure  must  if  possible  be  devised  to  relieve  the  un- 
expected disappointment.  For  we  mutually  agreed  at  Charlestown, 
that  one  of  the  Associate  Professors  should  be  a  "Professor  of 
Revealed  religion."  It  will  never  do  to  call  revealed  religion, 
Christian  Theology,  and  Natural  Theology,  revealed  religion. 
Disappointment  of  this  serious  nature,  must  not  encumber  the 
Institution.  We  must  go  upon  the  ground  of  union  without 
unjust  or  grievous  disappointment.  But  what  can  be  done  lies 
with  you  to  point  out.  I  feel  that  something  MUST  be  done.  For 
my  own  part,  I  wish  to  have  great  divines  preach  on  the  same 
subjects,  and  I  wish  for  an  alternate  course  of  Lectures  on  Nat- 
ural and  Kevealed  Keligion.  After  each  Professor  on  these  con- 
genial branches  has  lectured  a  year  on  his  respective  branch,  let 
them  alternate,  or  change  works,  and  I  am  confident  they  will  be 
better  divines,  and  their  pupils  better  edified  at  the  expiration 
of  two  years,  and  better  qualified  for  the  pulpit.  It  will  operate 
like  the  exchange  of  pulpits,  on  ministers  and  people  of  the  same 
theological  complexion.  All  the  objections  to  this  alternate  course 
in  these  congenial  branches  and  in  our  peculiar  circumstances,  must 
be  fetched  from  a  partial  quarter,  and  must  be  dismissed.  The 
great  Head  of  the  Church,  I  hope,  will  not  suffer  us  to  do  in  this 
sacred  business  what  i$  wrong.  If  I  know  myself,  I  desire  to  act 
in  the  meekness  of  wisdom.  But  alas !  who  knows  himself  as  he 
ought? 

From  your  friend  and  brother, 

S.  SPRING. 

p.  S. — I  wish  Dr.  Pearson  to  see  this  letter.     For  I  have  done 
what  I  could,  and  referred  the  business  to  the  Founders — in  part. 


APPENDIX.  545 

From  Dr.  Pearson  to  Dr.  Morse. 

ANDOVEB,  Dec.  21,  1807. 

MY  DEAR  SIR, — Yours  of  the  14th  was  not  received  before  my 
return  from  Newburyport,  nor  then  in  season  to  answer  it  by 
Mr.  Holden.  At  Mr.  Farrar's  earnest  request  I  set  out  with  him 
last  Tuesday  morning,  for  Newburyport,  whence  we  did  not  re- 
turn before  one  o'clock  of  Saturday.  Mr.  Farrar's  commission 
was  to  agree  with  Mr.  White  on  the  nature  of  the  contract,  which 
it  will  be  proper  for  the  Trustees  to  make  with  the  Donors.  My 
object  was  to  be  in  the  way  in  case  of  any  new  difficulty,  and  to 
improve  still  further  the  Constitution  and  Statutes,  which  had 
occupied  Dr.  S.  and  me  four  days  of  the  preceding  week.  It 
proved  very  providential  that  I  went,  for  as  Mr.  White  was  absent 
at  Salem  Court  till  Thursday  evening,  Mr.  Farrar  was  at  leisure 
to  assist  in  the  amendments  I  wished.  All  Wednesday  was  spent 
in  this  way  till  nine  o'clock  p.  M.,at  which  time  a  new,  unexpected 
and  formidable  difficulty  was  presented  by  Dr.  S.  relative  to  the 
departments.  To  relieve  Mr.  Norris's  feelings  on  the  head  of 
revealed  religion,  he  insisted  that  the  two  doctrinal  Professors 
should  lecture  alternately,  each  half  a  year  on  natural  and  revealed 
religion.  This  arrangement  was  resisted  with  many  arguments 
and  persevering  firmness;  but  it  was  not  given  up,  before  Friday 
A.  M.,  nor  then  before  I  had  visited  the  Donors.  The  struggle 
terminated  in  the  following  adjustment,  viz.,  "  one  of  whom  (that 
is,  their  two  Professors)  shall  be  a  Professor  of  Natural  Theology  or 
of  that  revelation,  which  God  has  made  of  Himself  and  of  His  will 
to  man  in  His  works  of  creation  and  providence."  This  will  oc- 
casion no  confusion.  These  emendations  and  additions  (and  these 
not  a  few)  are  to  be  fairly  copied  for  the  inspection  of  the  New- 
buryport Donors,  this  day  and  to-morrow.  Dr.  S.  is  to  carry  it 
to  Salem  and  obtain  Mr.  Norris's  signature  if  in  his  power;  but 
he  dreads  the  visit.  If  successful,  he  will  return  and  secure  the 
other  signatures  at  Newburyport.  After  this  the  instrument  is 
to  be  enclosed  in  a  letter  to  me,  to  be  communicated  to  the 
Trustees  at  their  next  meeting,  which  by  last  adjournment  is  to 
be  on  Tuesday  of  next  week  at  ten  o'clock.  In  the  mean  time,  Col. 
Phillips  and  Mr.  Holden  are  going  on  Wednesday  of  this  week 
to  Providence  to  view  the  College  edifice  there,  after  which  we 
shall  attempt  to  draw  a  plan  of  a  building  to  be  presented  to  the 
Trustees.  With  respect  to  private  buildings,  other  means  must 
be  sought  than  what  you  suggest.  The  Donors,  contrary  to  Dr. 
Spring's  wishes,  decline  bearing  any  expense  of  the  building. 


546       HISTORY   OF   ANDOYER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

Nor  am  I  sorry.  We  sliall  be  left  to  act  our  own  judgment  with 
respect  to  the  dimensions,  accommodations,  style  and  plan  of  the 
edifice,  and  in  case  of  a  separation  we  shall  be  subject  to  less 
embarrassment  and  loss. 

Perhaps  they  will  furnish  part  of  the  Library,  and  this  may 
be  removed  without  any  inconvenience.  It  is  not  in  my  power 
to  give  you  a  copy  of  the  "  outlines  "  now.  Two  of  my  children 
are  at  present  employed  in  copying  our  and  the  other  Constitu- 
tion for  other  uses.  I  do  not  see  that  I  can  be  at  Chaiiestown  this 
week.  The  great  object  requires  me  to  be  here.  Much  prepar- 
atory work  yet  remains  to  be  done  before  the  meeting.  If  you 
have  anything  important,  communicate  by  letter.  Permit  me  to 
hint  at  the  expediency  of  paying  some  attention  to  Judge  W. 
It  will  gratify  his  respectability  and  through  him  you  may  pos- 
sibly perceive  how  his  nephew's  pulse  beats,  and  also  that  of 
other  rich  men.  Sat  verbum.  Let  all  be  done  very  gently  and 
with  much  caution.  I  expect  much  civil  opposition  from  I.  P. 
and  Theological  from  D.  D.,  on  whom  by  the  way  I  called  last 
week.  Forewarned,  forearmed.  But  notwithstanding  every  pos- 
sible human  precaution,  we  shall  need  much  of  that  "  wisdom 
which  is  from  above."  For  this  let  us  constantly  and  earnestly 
pray  to  the  "Father  of  lights."  Our  time  of  trial  is  at  hand,  and 
we  must  be  firm  without  wavering,  and  without  offence  in  the 
cause  of  Christ  and  His  truth.  But  may  our  zeal  be  according  to 
knowledge  and  all  our  exertions  be  regulated  and  tempered  by 
the  "meekness  of  wisdom."  May  God  be  with  us  and  bless  us, 
and  graciously  assist  and  succeed  our  feeble  endeavors  to  pro- 
mote His  cause !  Without  Him  we  can  do  nothing.  Let  us  wait 
and  lean  upon  Him  for  wisdom  and  strength  and  in  Him  let  us  re- 
joice even  in  tribulation.  We  are,  through  Divine  goodness,  in 
usual  health,  and  join  in  respectful  and  affectionate  salutations  to  all 
of  your  household. 

That  Heaven  may  preserve  your  health,  and  increase  your 
usefulness,  prays  your  sincerely  attached  friend, 

E.  PEAKSON. 

P.  8. — Don't  fail  to  come  the  day  before  Trustee  meeting. 

From  Dr.  Pearson  to  Dr.  Morse. 

SUNDAY  EVENING,  Dec.  27,  1807. 

DEAK  SIR, — I  have  not  yet  received  any  intelligence  from  you 
in  consequence  of  Dr.  Spring's  letter  to  you  last  week.  Mr. 


APPENDIX.  547 

Words  however  informed  me  last  Thursday  of  Mr.  B.'s  difficulty, 
aid  of  its  effect  on  Dr.  S.'s  mind;  inconsequence  of  which,  at 
five  o'clock  P.  M.,  I  set  off  for  Newburyport,  whence  I  returned  last 
evening  at  half  past  seven.  Mr.  B.'s  mind  has  been  relieved  and  set 

right  by  the  visit,  but  not  without  apparent  mortification  to . 

The  Donors  appeared  zealous  for  union,  and  Mr.  B.  in  particular 
firm  as  Atlas.  Mr.  Woods  attended  the  interview,  and  while  in 
solemn  conclave  on  Saturday,  a  letter  was  received  from  Mr. 
Norris  in  which  he  writes  as  he  conversed  last  October.  This 
occasioned  some  additional  embarrassment.  But,  after  all,  the 
real  difficulty  is  in  Dr.  S.  rather  than  in  Mr.  N.  On  the  whole 
Dr.  S.  refuses  to  see  Mr.  N.  unless  some  farther  accommodation 
can  be  obtained  relative  to  the  departments.  Thus  the  subject 
was  left,  and  nothing  is  to  be  communicated  to  the  Trustees  at 
their  meeting  on  Wednesday  next.  I  want  much  to  see  you, 
previously  to  the  meeting,  for  consultation.  Pray  come  on  Tues- 
day, and  take  a  bed.  It  may  be  important.  Another  object  of 
great  moment  to  the  Institution  will  probably  be  communicated 
to  the  Trustees.  By  mistake  I  wrote  you  that  the  meeting  was 
adjourned  to  Tuesday;  but  it  is  Wednesday,  ten  o'clock  A.  M.  I 
hope  nothing  will  prevent  your  being  here  the  day  preceding. 
With  kind  remembrance  to  Mrs.  M.  and  family,  I  am 

Your  very  sincere  friend, 

E.  P. 
P.  S. — Your  son  is  well. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 
NEWBUBYPOET,  Dec.  27,  1807,  Sabbath  eve.  10  o'clock. 

REV.  AND  DEAK  SIR, — The  late  difficulty,  Dr.  Pearson  will  relate 
to  you  in  all  its  parts.  I  thought  we  had  got  through,  but  God 
sees  fit  to  try  us  further.  But  I  believe  He  will  help  us  and  that 
right  early. 

I  have  attended  to  the  life  of  Calvin  in  part,  and  will  endeavor 
to  finish  it  in  season  for  next  number.  If  there  is  opportunity 
and  you  judge  it  proper,  you  will  pay  some  attention  to  the  things 
mentioned  in  one  of  my  late  letters.  The  expedient  proposed  to 
satisfy  Mr.  Spring  and  Norris  will  I  am  confident  be  agreeable  to 
your  feelings.  My  heart  is  much  set  upon  it.  It  will  look  the 
most  like  a  real  union  of  anything  which  has  been  thought  of. 

The  Lord  will  be  with  you  and  help  you  at  Andover.  May 
you  have  wisdom  and  firmness  and  success  in  everything.  Write 
soon  to  your  very  affectionate  and  grateful  friend, 

L.  WOODS. 


548       HISTORY  OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

From  Dr.  Church  to  Mr.  Farrar. 

PELHAM,  N.  H.,  Dec.  28,  1807. 

DEAR  SIR, — I  am  much  obliged  and  gratified  by  your  favor  of 
the  12th  inst.  It  gives  me  much  pleasure.  I  rejoice  in  your 
prospect  of  union.  It  is  my  ardent  wish  that  nothing  may  inter- 
vene to  darken  your  pleasing  prospects.  No  further  delays,  I 
hope,  will  be  experienced.  Mr.  Bartlett,  it  seems,  is  explicit  and 
decided  for  union.  The  other  respected  Donors,  I  hope,  are  so 
likewise.  I  think  they  will  be  conciliating.  Your  Board,  if  I  am 
correctly  informed,  are  to  meet  the  present  week  to  establish  the 
union.  How  important  that  you  should  be  favored  with  light  and 
wisdom  from  above.  The  Lord  be  with  you  in  infinite  mercy  to 
His  cause  and  to  our  guilty  world,  and  graciously  direct  every 
step  you  take  and  every  measure  you  adopt  in  this  infinitely  im- 
portant concern.  I  fear  some  of  your  Board  may  oppose  the 
union,  lest  it  should  increase  the  influence  of  Hopkinsians.  Oh, 
that  that  "  Shibboleth  "  may  be  done  away  !  It  is  the  truth  which 
we  are  to  defend  and  promote.  In  the  pure,  essential  truths  of 
the  gospel,  all  good  men  are  agreed.  When  a  cordial  union  with 
such  men  is  shunned  and  opposed,  it  is  cause  of  pious  grief  and 
humiliation.  It  betrays  a  want  of  attachment  to  that  cause,  in 
which  God  and  all  holy  beings  are  engaged.  I  hope  the  contem- 
plated union  in  the  Seminary  will  have  extensive  influence  in 
uniting  the  friends  of  the  truth.  This  will  powerfully  defeat  the 
design  of  the  great  adversary.  It  is  his  policy  to  keep  good  men 
at  a  distance  from  each  other,  and  to  prevent  their  acting  in  con- 
cert, as  a  band  of  brothers  and  as  a  united  host  of  the  Lord's 
people. 

What  a  glorious  cause,  my  dear  friend,  you  have  espoused !  I 
rejoice  that  you  are  associated  with  such  worthy  characters  as  Dr. 
Pearson,  Dr.  Morse,  and  others,  in  effecting  such  important  de- 
signs. May  your  Christian  love  and  zeal  greatly  abound.  I  re- 
flect upon  your  peculiar  situation  with  much  satisfaction.  I  think 
it  highly  favorable  for  your  religious  improvement  and  usefulness. 
You  may  do  much  for  Zion,  much  to  promote  evangelical  truth 
and  experimental  godliness.  May  the  love  of  Christ  sweetly  con- 
strain you  always  to  abound  in  the  work  of  the  Lord.  Oh,  that 
we  may  spare  no  pains,  no  exertions,  to  promote  the  cause  of  Him 
who  gave  His  life  for  our  redemption ! 

The  small  bundle  of  pamphlets  I  received  by  Deacon  Barker 
was  very  acceptable.  I  am  exceedingly  pleased  with  the  tract. 
It  is  full  of  pure  gospel  truth.  Every  future  favor  will  be  grate- 


APPENDIX.  549 

fully  acknowledged.     I  shall  feel  myself  peculiarly  happy  in  en- 
joying your  intimate  friendship  and  correspondence. 
With  affection  and  esteem,  your  friend  and  servant, 

J.  H.  CHURCH. 

From  Dr.  Spring  to  L.  Woods. 

NEWBUBTPORT,  Dec.  30,  1807. 

EEVEKEND  AND  VERY  DEAR  BROTHER, — The  letter  concurrent  was, 
as  you  will  see,  reserved  for  to-morrow.  No  matter.  Your  favor 
has  been  received.  The  ladies  judged  with  you  correctly.  I  in- 
tended our  worthy  friends  should  see  it,  for  I  believe  they  wish 
to  found  an  Institution  on  the  best  basis;  and  the  objections  to 
the  contemplated  system,  they  are  certainly  ready  to  look  in  the 
face.  The  cause  is  one  with  us  all,  and  we  must  be  united  in  our 
measures  to  support  it.  It  is  manifest  that  Judge  Smith  and  Mr. 
Daggett,  who  excel  in  the  profession,  are  coincident  in  opinion.  No 
gentlemen  will,  omnibus  commendatis,  impeach  me  for  my  zeal  and 
jealousy  on  the  great  occasion,  if  of  the  right  kind.  The  idea  of 
illegal  Visitors,  stalking  about  the  Academy  with  gown  and  cassock, 
or  without  them,  I  cannot  endure.  When  on  the  heights  of  Phil- 
lips Academy,  they  must  be  legal  men,  or  the  dogs  will  bark,  and 
the  young  theologians  will  be  chagrined  and  retire  behind  the 
hill.  No  Visitors  can  magnify  that  awful  office  without  a  legal 
right. 

With  more  frankness  than  wisdom,  perhaps,  I  permit  you  to 
communicate  my  feelings  to  the  gentlemen,  though  they  may  smile 
at  my  weakness  and  attempt  to  cure  the  disorder  by  a  seasonable 
application. 

I  am  at  some  moments  ready  to  conclude  that  the  gentlemen 
anticipate  all  the  objections  which  can  be  made  against  the  intro- 
duction of  the  Visitatorial  system;  though  our  Visitors  will  be 
placed  over  the  Trustees  and  sole  Visitors  of  the  Institution,  in- 
stead of  being  placed  over  Masters,  Fellows,  etc.,  who  are  Benefi- 
ciaries and  are  determined  to  make  a  precedent  or  rule  for  the 
sake  of  correcting  College  administration.  Their  motives  are 
good,  no  doubt,  and  while  I  wish  C.  College  and  D.  Academy 
were  under  Visitors,  I  don't  wonder  Gov.  Strong  relucts  at  the 
thought  of  placing  Visitors  over  the  Trustees  and  Visitors  of  An- 
dover  Academy.  I  feel  more  than  ever  the  burden  which  the 
gentlemen  have  to  bear,  while  persuading  the  Trustees  to  adopt 
their  Creed,  and  to  bend  their  necks  to  Masters  or  Visitors.  Friend 
Daniel  can  never,  never  do  it.  How  it  will  be  with  others,  I  can- 


550       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

not  tell.  If  they  were  beneficiaries  and  needed  an  education  or 
support,  they  would  feel  very  differently  indeed.  I  have  only  to 
add  as  before,  that  I  hope  the  object  will  be  contemplated  with 
impartiality  in  all  its  attitudes.  The  best  plan  of  operation  we 
need,  and  the  best  we  must  have. 

Please  to  make  my  best  respects  to  the  ladies,  to  the  gentle- 
men at  Andover,  etc. 

From  yours  affectionately, 

S.  SPRING. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

Dec.  31,  1807. 
REV.  AND  DEAR  SIR, — 

New  difficulties  are  constantly  presenting,  in  our  way  to  union. 
God's  hand  is  to  be  adored,  that  they  occurred  not  all  at  once.  We 
should  have  been  overwhelmed.  This  new  delay  is  in  my  appre- 
hension of  good  tendency.  Perhaps,  if  the  Visitatorial  system  had 
been  brought  forward  in  the  first  place  by  these  Donors,  it  would 
have  been  rejected.  But  if  accepted  on  Esqr.  A.'s  foundation,  the 
way  will  be  prepared  for  its  acceptance  on  the  other  foundation. 
In  some  way  good  will  result.  We  have  reason  for  strong  confi- 
dence in  God.  Dr.  Spring  conducts  nobly  of  late.  He  shows  a 
great  and  generous  soul.  We  must  unite  love  and  confidence 
with  caution.  Dr.  P.'s  visit  last  week  did  good.  Judge  Smith  of 
Exeter  has  written  largely  and  ably  in  opposition  to  Visitatorial 
scheme.  I  expect  to  go  to  Andover  to-morrow  or  next  day,  to 
carry  it.  It  must  be  attended  to  with  care.  I  thought  that  diffi- 
culty was  at  an  end.  But  the  Lord  of  the  whole  earth,  the  King 
of  Zion,  will  help  us  through.  I  long  to  be  with  you;  hope  to 
hear  from  you  soon.  In  great  haste, 

L.  WOODS. 

From  Dr.  Spring  to  L.  Woods. 

NEWBUBYPOET,  Jan.  1,  1808. 
(A  NEW  YEAR'S  GIFT.) 

DEAR  BROTHER, — Dr.  Hart  and  the  Rev.  Mr.  Benedict  were 
Associate  ministers  in  the  same  vicinity.  Mr.  Benedict  was  an 
accurate  theologian  and  an  excellent  casuist,  who  was  prepared 
to  meet  interesting  interrogations  and  to  make  pertinent  answers, 
as  he  was  frequently  at  Dr.  Hart's  who  was  peculiarly  inquisitive. 
There  were  many  difficult  questions  to  be  solved.  At  length  Mr. 


APPENDIX.  551 

Benedict  was  removed  from  the  vicinity,  and  Mr.  Hart's  little  son, 
who  used  to  notice  his  father  and  Mr.  B.,  very  seriously  and  sym- 
pathetically, said,  "Father,  what  will  you  do,  now  uncle  B.  is  gone? 
for  who  will  answer  your  hard  questions  ?  " 

Now,  my  brother,  I  mean  to  escape  Dr.  Hart's  difficulty  by 
asking  a  few  of  my  hard  questions  before  you  depart  from  our 
vicinity.  And, 

1.  What  authority  creates  legal  offices  and  constitutes  corpo- 
rations or  bodies  politic  ? 

2.  What  authority  appoints  teachers  in  our  Public  Schools, 
Academies  and  Colleges  ? 

3.  Can  the  Associate  Donors  appoint  or  create  legal  Visitors 
over  the  Trustees  of   Andover   Theological   Institution   or   any 
branch  of  it,  any  more  than  they  can  appoint  Governors  of  the 
State  or  the  President  of  Congress  ? 

4.  In   case    of   the   location   now   contemplated,    cannot   any 
future  trust  legally  say  to  our  Yisitors — Jefferson  we  know  and 
Sullivan  we  know,  but  who  are  ye?  and  where  is  the  money  as- 
signed and  given  over  to  Aiidover  Trustees,  and  who  shall  apply 
it  in  a  legal  manner,  you  or  we,  notwithstanding  the  specious  ob- 
ligation given  you  by  our  predecessors  in  office  who  acted  illegally? 

5.  Will  the  law  consider  the  Associate  Yisitors  incorporated 
with  the  Andover  Academy,  or  as  any  branch  of  that  corporation 
during  the  septennial  experiment;  or  must  they  be  considered  in- 
truders on  corporate  ground  ? 

6.  Is  not  the  Visitatorial  system  untried  in  the  English  sense 
in  New  England,  and  must  there  not  be  a  revolution  indeed,  rela- 
tive to  incorporating  Academies  and  Colleges,  before  legal  rights 
canxbe  appointed  over  gratuitous  foundations.     For  as  far  as  the 
common  law  of  England  Jias  been  concerned  in  the  establishment 
of  gratuitous  Institutions,  in  America  it  has  actually  considered 
and  appointed  Trustees  as  bodies  politic  to  be  their  sole  Visitors, 
Guardians  and  Protectors.     Is  there  an  instance  to  the  contrary  ? 
My  mind  and  soul  is  tried  relative  to  these  things.     The  interest 
of  Zion  is  deeply  concerned  in  a  few  steps  about  to  be  taken.     Is 
it  not  possible  for  us  to  make  haste  too  fast  in  this  matter?     He 
who  will  answer  these   questions  correctly  may  be,  Hie  magus 
instar  amnium. 

From  yours  with  much  esteem, 

S.  SPRING. 


552       HISTORY  OF  ANDOVER   THEOLOGICAL   SEMINARY. 

From  L.   Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBUEY,  Jan.  5,  1808. 

REV.  AND  BELOVED  SIR, — 

Yours  of  the  3d  inst.  I  have  just  received.  I  always  enjoy 
peculiar  pleasure  in  your  letters;  and  the  more  so,  since  the  sub- 
jects of  our  correspondence  became  so  highly  interesting  to  the 
general  cause  of  religion  as  well  as  to  ourselves.  How  momen- 
tous the  concerns  to  which  our  attention  is  called.  How  trying 
the  period  in  which  Providence  calls  us  to  act.  What  wisdom, 
what  firmness,  what  steady  piety,  and  unabating  zeal  are  requisite. 
May  grace  and  mercy  be  multiplied  to  all  who  are,  in  these  pecu- 
liar times,  fervently  engaged  in  the  right  cause.  For  myself  I  am 
astonished  at  the  kindness  of  God,  and  the  friendship  of  Chris- 
tians, with  which  I  am  favored.  I  feel  that  I  ought  to  be  humble 
and  prayerful,  and  that  it  is  wholly  unsafe,  for  so  much. of  God's 
interest  to  be  in  my  hands,  unless  special  Divine  aid  is  granted. 
May  I  not,  dear  sir,  hope  for  that  aid  ?  May  I  not  humbly  de- 
pend upon  it  ?  If  I  could  not  I  should  be  wholly  discouraged. 

As  to  the  joint  Board  of  Visitors, — you  like  it,  "  provided  it 
could  be  made  agreeable  to  your  Board  of  Trustees."  I  suppose 
your  Board  will  have  no  hand  in  appointing  the  Visitors.  In  your 
Constitution,  power  is  reserved  and  given  to  every  Founder  of  a 
Professorship,  etc.,  to  prescribe  the  Statutes,  etc.,  and  to  appoint 
such  local  Visitor  or  Visitors  as  he  pleases.  The  Board  according 
to  this,  has  no  more  agency  in  appointing  Visitors,  than  in  ap- 
pointing the  first  Professors,  the  right  of  which  is  reserved  to  the 
Founders.  The  Board  have  recognized  the  principles  of  the  Visi- 
tatorial system,  and  the  right  of  Esqr.  A.  to  appoint  such  Visitors 
as  he  pleases,  by  accepting  and  ratifying  the  Constitution.  Now 
if  Esqr.  A.  and  the  other  Founders  of  Professorships,  can  agree 
in  appointing  the  same  Board  of  Visitors  what  question  will  there 
be  before  your  Board?  This,  however,  goes  upon  the  supposi- 
tion that  the  donations  from  this  quarter  are,  or  certainly  will  be 
accepted,  upon  the  conditions  stated.  In  this  matter  your  Board 
is  to  be  consulted, — but  not  in  the  choice  of  Visitors, — as  I  under- 
stand the  matter.  The  present  delay  I  consider  as  peculiarly  fav- 
orable to  the  best  plan  of  union.  It  gives  opportunity  for  the 
Visitatorial  plan  to  be  brought  forward  first  by  Esqr.  A.,  from 
whom  it  will  be  most  likely  to  be  accepted,  and  after  which  there 
will  be  no  color  of  reason  in  objecting  against  the  same  plan  pro- 
posed from  another  quarter.  There  is  another  advantage  I  con- 
template. The  Andover  Associates  have  all  along  been  urgent 


APPENDIX.  553 

for  real  union,  and  have  abundantly  said  that  there  is  a  founda- 
tion for  it.  Now  to  me,  nothing  has  appeared  so  much  like  real 
union,  as  for  Esqr.  A.  and  the  three  Donors  to  unite  in  appointing 
one  Board  of  Visitors  for  all  the  foundations.  This  would  look 
like  mutual  confidence  and  real  harmony.  Whereas  two  distinct 
Boards  of  Visitors  placed  over  the  different  departments,  would 
certainly  have  an  uncomely  appearance,  and  would  probably  oc- 
casion many  disagreeable  feelings,  if  not  many  real  evils. 

I  apprehend  no  difficulty  in  agreeing  upon  the  proper  men — 
men  who  would  be  acceptable  to  both  sides.  I  am  satisfied  the 
delay  is  best,  and  the  final  shape  of  the  Institution  will  be  more 
fair  and  promising,  than  it  would  otherwise  have  been.  One  year 
cannot  be  thought  too  much  for  the  preparatory  measures  in  such 
a  great  design.  The  delay  did  not  originate  from  Dr.  S.  And 
lately,  in  the  affair  of  Judge  Smith's  opinion,  he  has  shown  no 
disposition  to  make  a  new  difficulty.  He  has  let  the  Donors  know 
nothing  about  it  as  he  assured  me  to-day. 

As  to  Professor  of  Pulpit  Eloquence,  Mr.  Bartlett  will  do 
what  is  right  in  the  sight  of  the  Lord,  and  in  the  sight  of  His  peo- 
ple. He  told  me  thus — "  It  is  an  important  thing — I  shall  wish 
for  the  best  information — I  must  look  out  for  the  best  man — and 
I  shall  want  the  opinion  of  Dr.  Pearson  and  Dr.  Morse,  and  you, 
before  I  do  anything  about  it,  and  I  wish  you  all  to  be  making 

inquiry."     Mr.  B 1  will  do  nothing  contrary  to  the  opinion  of 

Dr.  P n.  And  Dr.  S.  knows  it  so  well,  that  he  will  be  conde- 
scending and  candid.  If  Dr.  Abeel  can  be  recommended  the 
most  highly,  Mr.  Bartlett  will  appoint  him.  But  he  must  know 
his  sentiments  and  character  very  particularly.  It  would  be  best, 
by  and  by,  to  get  letters  from  some  of  the  most  respectable  char- 
acters in  those  parts  respecting  him.  I  am  perfectly  free  to  in- 
troduce the  subject  to  him  when  I  have  opportunity.  I  am  not 
frightened  by  opposition.  Let  the  Boston  members  do  what  they 
can  by  their  presence  or  absence,  and  let  them  become  so  sick 
of  the  Institution  as  to  retire,  and  leave  a  place  for  other  men; 
what  harm?  You  will  always  be  troubled  by  them,  always 
cramped,  and  often  ensnared  by  their  influence.  The  current  of 
Boston  liberality  carries  everything  along  with  it, — or  perhaps 
more  properly,  everything  is  swallowed  up  in  its  vortex.  I  expect 
no  cordiality,  no  zeal  in  the  cause  of  the  Seminary  from  that 
quarter. 

I  am  concerned  for  your  health.  Do  be  careful.  May  God 
strengthen  you  for  every  good  word  and  work.  He  will  help  you 
through  all  your  labors  and  all  your  trials.  If  Dr.  P.  be  with  you, 


554       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

please  to  give  him  my  respects;  tell  him  I  have  seen  Dr.  S.  to-day, 
and  that  I  find  him  disposed  to  treat  the  whole  subject  candidly. 
Judge  Smith's  opinion  has  occasioned  some  doubts  or  rather  re- 
newed them.  But  he  will  be  satisfied,  and  so  will  they  all.  Let 
us  study,  and  converse,  and  pray  this  winter,  in  reference  to  the 
completion  of  the  business.  When  God's  time  comes,  opposition 
will  die  away,  difficulties  vanish,  and  all  things  conspire  to  bring 
forward  the  consummation.  Pray  write  soon.  Remember  us  to 
Mrs.  Morse  and  the  rest  of  your  dear  domestic  circle,  and  believe 
me  most  sincerely  your  friend  and  servant, 

L.  WOODS. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBUEYPOBT,  Jan.  12,  1808. 

REV.  AND  DEAR  SIR, — I  have  received  nothing  from  you  since 
your  interview  with  Dr.  Pearson.  My  mind  is  not  without  a 
great  deal  of  anxiety  relative  to  the  Institution.  Depend  upon 
it,  difficulties  are  breeding  in  this  time  of  delay.  Judge  Smith 
is  exerting  all  his  energy  in  opposing  visitatorial  principles — insists 
that  there  is  no  safety  in  a  legal  view.  Nothing  is  communicated 
from  Dr.  S.  to  the  Donors;  but  he  will  communicate  all  before  long. 
He  thinks  he  cannot  consistently  omit  it.  What  shall  be  done  ? 
If  the  proposed  plan  respecting  joint  Board  could  be  speedily 
adopted,  the  business  on  the  part  of  the  Donors  would  be  speedily 
completed.  That  plan  is  most  agreeable  to  Messrs.  Brown  and 
Bartlett,  though  they  are  ready  for  any  reasonable  form  of 
union.  It  is  my  serious,  deliberate,  fixed  opinion,  that  that 
plan  is  the  most  fair  and  promising,  and  that  there  is  little  pros- 
pect of  complete  success  in  our  attempt  for  union  in  any  other 
way.  Any  other  way  will  be  attended  with  great  hindrances, 
and  may  fail  after  all.  Mr.  Norris  is  very  active  in  writing  to 
Dr.  S.  and  the  Donors,  and  you  know  their  attachment  and 
unwillingness  to  do  anything  without  him.  If  the  joint  Board 
could  be  agreed  to,  Mr.  S.  is  confident  he  could  immediately 
satisfy  Mr.  N.  As  to  Visitors  no  difficulty  will  be  realized  in 
their  appointment.  Dr.  Spring  agrees  to  Dr.  Dwight  as  one. 
Let  him  be  mutually  chosen.  Dr.  S.  will  be  chosen  by  the 
Donors,  and  Esqr.  A.  will  choose  the  other,  G-ov.  Strong  if  he 
please.  Col.  Phillips  may  be  added  as  a  Founder  on  Andover 
side.  What  objection  can  there  be?  Why  not  proceed  im- 
mediately in  settling  that  point?  Let  my  plan  however,  as  to 
choosing  Visitors,  be  kept  close,  till  this  plan  of  joint  Board  is 


APPENDIX.  555 

agreed  to.  Do  communicate  my  ideas,  if  you  please,  immediately 
to  Andover  friends.  Something  must  be  done  or  all  is  lost. 
These  Donors  can  finish  their  business  and  send  it  on.  You  can 
act  as  Providence  dictates  about  calling  a  meeting.  But  let 
delay  be  avoided. 

Do  write  immediately.  I  set  out  for  Charlestown  yesterday, 
but  circumstances  were  such,  I  could  not  come.  Adieu.  With 
esteem  and  anxiety,  I  am,  dear  sir,  yours, 

L.  WOODS. 

P.  S. — In  great  haste,  at  Dr.  Coffin's. 


From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBUKY,  Jan.  17,  1808,  Sabbath  eve,  10  o'clock. 

KEV.  AND  DEAR  SIR, — The  day  after  I  wrote  to  you  last  week, 
I  went  to  Andover.  Dr.  Pearson  returned  with  me  and  visited 
Newburyport.  In  consequence  of  his  visit,  the  state  of  things 
is  less  unpromising.  The  pleadings  of  Judge  Smith  have  less 
weight  in  the  mind  of  Dr.  S.  The  other  two  gentlemen  continue 
in  the  right  way,  firm  and  unmoved.  They  are  much  gratified 
with  the  prospect  of  a  joint  Board  of  Visitation.  The  end  of 
this  thing,  will,  I  earnestly  hope,  be  better  than  the  beginning. 
We  must  be  humbled  and  learn  to  wait  upon  God.  His  time  is 
the  best.  If  we  believe,  we  shall  not  make  haste,  but  be  patient, 
knowing  that  events  are  with  God,  not  with  us.  From  Dr.  S. 
and  Dr.  Pearson  you  will  learn  all.  Dr.  S.  will  be  satisfied,  if  the 
Visitatorial  scheme  is  capable  of  bearing  a  thorough  investigation, 
and  being  defended  upon  principles  which  will  last.  Very  prob- 
ably his  jealous  turn  of  mind  may  do  much  good  in  this  affair 
though  it  has  occasioned  much  anxiety  and  delay.  I  hope  every 
method,  which  kindness  to  him,  and  regard  to  the  great  object 
dictate,  will  be  diligently  used  to  give  him  full  satisfaction,  and 
to  gain  his  entire  confidence.  By  proper  measures  it  may  be 
done,  especially  considering  that  all  circumstances  now  favor  it. 
You  know  my  feelings  perfectly  as  to  the  plan  of  joint  Board  of 
Visitors.  I  am  happy  to  learn  from  Dr.  P.  more  fully,  than 
from  your  letter,  that  our  feelings  harmonize.  May  the  plan  be 
matured,  and  adopted,  as  soon  as  may  be,  lest  new  erils  should 
arise. 

I  was  really  distressed  to  hear  by  Dr.  P.  that  your  eyes  were 
in  a  critical  state.  Do  give  seasonable  attention  to  the  best  means 
of  removing  the  weakness,  and  preparing  them  for  action. 


556       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

I  would  rather  Gazetteer,  Geography,  Panoplist,  sermons,  letters, 
and  everything  else,  should  be  suspended  for  a  time,  than  to  have 
you  run  any  hazard  in  so  momentous  a  case.  If  I  thought  that 
entreaties  were  at  all  necessary,  I  would  fill  this  letter  with  them. 
I  send  Pastor  several  days  later  than  I  promised,  in  consequence  of 
journeying  to  Newburyport  and  Andover  the  beginning  of  last 
week.  It  may  be  too  late  for  this  month.  If  not  I  will  endeavor 
to  have  another  ready  in  good  season  for  next.  I  have  written 
this  number  in  haste.  I  wish  it  were  done  better.  But  'tis  good 
doctrine.  'Tis  old  divinity,  and  new  divinity  too. 

I  hope  to  hear  from  you  soon.  Rees'  Encyclopaedia  I  have  on 
the  article  Calvin,  and  will  attend  to  the  subject  as  you  desire. 
"We  are  all  well  excepting  colds.  My  lungs  for  the  week  past 
have  been  in  a  tender  state.  Accept  our  united  regards. 

Your  friend  and  servant, 

L.  WOODS. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBUET,  Jan.  20,  1808. 

MY  RESPECTED  AND  BELOVED  SIR, — About  two  hours  ago  I  re- 
ceived your  favor  of  the  14th  and  15th.  I  had  been  looking  for  it 
several  days.  If  I  could  have  sent  to  post-office  sooner  I  should 
have  found  it.  It  is  a  refreshment.  When  I  grow  languid  and 
indolent,  your  letters  rouse  my  sluggish  spirits  and  animate  my 
exertions.  Before  this  I  hope  you  have  received  the  packet  I 
sent  yesterday  containing  Pastor.  How  matters  now  stand  re- 
specting the  Institution,  I  know  not  in  particular.  As  Dr.  S.  is 
with  you,  and  probably  Dr.  P.,  you  will  know  all.  The  prospect 
I  suppose  is  bright.  Dr.  S.  will  be  effectually  and  entirely  gained. 
The  men  proposed  for  Visitors  will  be  highly  respectable.  'Tis 
best,  I  judge,  not  to  talk  with  Dr.  S.  upon  the  men,  certainly  not 
before  the  mode  of  appointing  them  is  finally  fixed.  'Tis  the  busi- 
ness of  the  Founders  to  make  the  appointment.  Dr.  S.  will  be 
one.  A  better  man  could  not  be  found,  and  he  may  be  sure,  he 
will  have  no  reason  to  be  ashamed  of  his  company.  Dr.  Dwight 
may  be  the  man  mutually  chosen.  Esq.  A.  will  have  the  right  of 
appointing  whom  he  will.  I  question  whether  it  will  be  best,  and 
if  best,  whether  it  will  be  practicable,  to  complete  the  coalition  and 
make  it  final.*  But  why  need  it  be  considered  as  of  essential 
importance,  if  the  Board  of  Visitors,  by  whom  the  question  is 
to  be  finally  decided,  consist  of  characters,  in  whom  we  have 
1  That  is,  at  their  present  meeting. 


APPENDIX.  557 

the  highest  confidence?  It  gives  me  high  pleasure,  that  you 
are  more  and  more  pleased  with  the  joint  Board.  Mr.  Farrar 
would  have  eagerly  embraced  it,  if  it  had  been  proposed  last 
June.  And  I  am  persuaded  he  will  be  perfectly  satisfied  with 
it;  because  he  unites  discernment  and  candor  with  caution. 

The  sooner  matters  are  prepared  to  lay  before  the  Trustees, 
the  better.  It  is  my  wish,  perhaps  mine  only,  that  it  may  be  done 
before  Mr.  Q.'s  return  from  Washington.  There  will  doubtless 
be  violent  opposition  from  the  Boston  members.  I  should  not 
easily  be  reconciled  to  having  the  meeting  in  Boston,, unless  you 
could  be  sure  of  all  from  Andover.  Here  let  me  provoke  you  to 
the  good  work  of  filling  up  your  vacancy.  Is  Dr.  H.  so  decided 
a  man  as  you  need?  Is  he  not  subject  to  peculiar  embarrassments, 
which  would  always  make  him  afraid  to  act  V  I  doubt  whether 
he  has  half  the  energy  of  nature  which  Mr.  Breman  has,  and 
whether  he  would  do  half  so  much  for  the  Institution.  I  should 
be  glad  to  have  information  respecting  the  house,  what  it  is,  how 
many  conveniences,  how  much  land,  etc.  If  you  don't  know,  I 
wish  your  inquiries  may  be  made,  as  to  excite  no  observations. 
Let  other  things  be  made  strong  and  unshakable;  then  influence 
can  be  used  without  hazard.  I  have  no  apprehension  but  Mr. 
Bartlett  will  do  what  will  be  best  for  the  Institution.  I  have, 
I  think,  suggested  the  importance  of  obtaining  letters  from  the 
most  respectable  characters. 

If  you  judge  it  best,  I  am  not  reluctant  to  publish  Pres.  Appletoris 
article  and  meet  objections  publicly,  though  it  would  be  little  more 
than  to  retrace  the  ground  already  passed  over,  as  to  Confessions 
of  Faith. 

I  am  ensnared  by  your  manner  of  requesting  me  to  review 
Mr.  S.'s  sermon.  If  a  "review  of  approbation  will  do  good,"  I 
can  review  and  approve.  But  if  I  regard  either  the  reputation 
of  the  Panoplist,  or  my  own  reputation,  or  my  own  judgment,  I 
cannot  review  and  approve,  without  a  mixture  of  decided  dis- 
approbation. The  introduction  is  wretchedly  impertinent  and 
long.  I  have  not  sense  enough  to  see  one  sentence  in  it,  that 
partakes  of  the  nature  of  an  exordium.  The  language  is  fault}', 
the  structure  of  the  sermon  will  not  bear  examination.  Under 
the  first  head,  where  he  undertakes  to  describe  a  minister's  faith- 
fulness as  it  respects  himself,  he  has  a  long  paragraph,  more  than 
a  page,  wholly  taken  up  in  describing  his  duty  to  his  people,  how 
he  ought  to  treat  the  sick,  etc. ;  and  when  he  goes  to  the  second 
head,  to  describe  his  faithfulness  as  it  respects  his  people,  he 
scarcely  says  anything  except  what  respects  preaching.  Thus  far 


558      HISTORY  OF  ANDOYER   THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

I  write  as  a  critic.  But  I  can  in  another  view  highly  approve. 
Placing  myself  in  your  situation,  when  it  was  delivered,  I  am 
confident  I  should  have  been  much  gratified,  for  it  contains  ex- 
cellent things  for  the  occasion.  The  compliment  to  Mr.  K.  in  the 
charge  is  astonishing.  I  could  not  say  it,  unless  my  charity  were 
turned  into  libertinism. 

Do  write  on  receiving  this,  what  has  been  said  and  done 
between  you  and  Dr.  S.,  how  matters  stand,  what  there  is  for  me 
to  do,  etc.  I  hope  Dr.  P.  will  be  with  you  this  week,  but  fear  the 
weather  will  prevent.  I  feel,  dear  sir,  the  delicacy  and  weight  of 
the  work  which  falls  to  you  in  your  place.  The  Lord  will  help  you, 
and  strengthen  you,  and  uphold  you.  I  shall  be  very  anxious 
to  know  whether  your  eyes  are  better,  etc. 

Vanderkemp's  question  is  important.  But  if  I  were  to  write 
to  him  with  freedom  as  to  an  amendment,  I  should  propose  it 
thus:  what  qualifications  are  requisite  for  successful  Christian  Mission- 
aries, among  the  savages  in  this  continent?  What  obstacles  must  they, 
expect  to  meet,  and  how  shall  they  overcome  them?  Thus  I  have 
written  it  in  haste, — you  will  model  it  as  you  please.  I  did  not 
apprehend  that  the  question  was  so  decided  upon,  that  it  would 
be  proper  to  publish  it.  He  wishes  you,  in  a  letter,  to  assist  him 
in  making  out  a  good  question.  I  send  the  letter. 

With  most  affectionate  regards  to  you  and  your  beloved  family, 
I  subscribe,  Rev.  Sir,  your  friend  and  servant, 

L.  WOODS. 

From  L.   Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBUET,  Jan.  25,  1808. 

MOST  BELOVED  SIR, — Yours  of  the  22d  arrived  at  Newburyport 
to-day  about  the  same  time  that  I  did.  It  is  a  cordial  to  my  mind. 
I  am  very  much  rejoiced  to  find  Dr.  S.'s  feelings  are  so  comfort- 
able, so  pleasing  to  himself  and  to  others.  He  says  he  needs  no 
spur  to  exertion  in  favor  of  the  union,  and  in  favor  of  bringing 
the  business  to  a  close  as  soon  as  possible.  He  will  go  to  Andover 
this  week  or  the  beginning  of  next.  There  need  be  no  delay  on 
the  part  of  the  Associate  Donors.  The  business  may  be  brought 
to  a  consummation  immediately,  as  soon  as  Esqr.  A.  is  prepared 
to  embrace  the  plan  of  a  joint  Board.  But  that  must  be  managed 
very  delicately,  and  with  due  moderation.  Some  at  Andover  may 
oppose  the  plan.  I  wish  you  could  be  on  the  spot,  if  the  point  is 
likely  to  labor.  You  could  do  as  much  with  Esqr.  A.  as  any 
body.  In  this  critical  state  of  things  I  hope  the  plan  of  experi- 


APPENDIX.  559 

ment  will  not  be  violently  opposed.      I  have  been  prepared  for 
every  kind  and  degree  of  exertion,  when  I  could  see  sufficient 
reason  to  justify  it.     And  in  several  instances,  I  have  hazarded 
everything  with  Dr.  S.  and  have  felt  ready,  if  the  great  object 
required  it,  to  sacrifice  everything.     But  here  I  see  no  sufficient 
reason  for  great  exertion.     To    say  that  the  experiment  scheme 
ought  to  be  given  up,  because  of  the  joint  Board,  appears  to  me 
very  perverted  or  inverted  reasoning.     It  was  admitted,  that  the 
union  on  Visitatorial  principles  should  take  place,  with  the  pro- 
viso of  seven  years  experiment,  when  it  was  expected  that  the  As- 
sociate Donors  would  have  a  separate  Board  of  Visitors,  and  when 
it  was  expected  that  the   final  question  about  perpetual  union 
would  be  determined  by  that  separate  Board.     Certainly  then,  the 
plan  of  experiment  ought  to  be  admitted,  when  the  final  question 
about  perpetual  union  is  to  come  before  a  joint  Board,  in  whose 
candor  and  wisdom,  you  would  have  more  confidence,  than  you 
could  have  in  the  candor  and  wisdom  of  a  separate  Board.     In 
my  view  the  objections  against  the  experiment,  in  case  of  a  joint 
Board,  are  far  less  than  they  would  be  in  case  of  a  separate  Board. 
I  always  considered  it  wrong  that  so  important   a  question  as 
that  of  final  union,   should  be   left  to  Visitors  chosen  by   one 
part  of  the  Institution.     But  what  danger  to  leaving  it  to  a  body 
of  men,  who,  we  should  be  fully  satisfied,  would  determine  it  on 
right  principles,  and  would  certainly  perpetuate  the  union,  unless 
it  were  really  best  it  should  o^ise  ?     Why  then  should  the  scheme 
of  joint  Board  be  urged  a's  an  objection  against  the  experiment,  when, 
in  fact,  the  greatest  objection  is  wholly  removed  by  that  very 
scheme  ?     I  give  you  the  simple  workings  of  my  mind  on  the  sub- 
ject and  am  willing  and  desirous  to  be  corrected  if  I  am  wrong. 
I  am  extremely  loth,  by  insisting  upon  that,  which  is  not  essen- 
tial, to  throw  new  obstacles  in  the  way  of  coalition,  and  to  oc- 
casion new  delay.     'Tis  very  probable  that  the  experiment  may 
disclose  some  defects  in  the  plan  adopted,  may  lead  to  some  val- 
uable alterations,  in  the  Statutes  of  the  Associate  Donors,  and  to 
some  important  improvements.     On  the  other  hand,  it  may  be  that 
the  Associate  Donors  will  very  soon  be  sick  of  the  plan  of  experi- 
ment, and  see  reasons  sufficient  to  give  it  up.     This  I  apprehend 
is  not  unlikely.     If  the  Professors  whom  they  appoint,  refuse  to 
accept  on  that  plan,  the  Donors  would  wish  to  set  it  aside.     And 
this  introduces  the  idea,  that  there  ought  to  be  a  proviso  of  this 
kind,  viz.,  that  if  at  any  time  during  the  seven  years  the  Donors 
all  living,  or  a  majority  at  least,  should  judge  it  best  for  the  inter- 
est of  religion,  they  shall  have  the  power  to  render  the  union  per- 


560       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

petual  upon  the  principles  at  first  adopted,  leaving  no  question  to 
be  decided  by  the  Board  of  Visitors  at  the  end  of  seven  years.  At 
present,  however,  I  do  not  believe  that  anything  can  be  done 
without  the  proviso  of  the  experiment;  and  to  attempt  to  per- 
suade the  Donors  to  lay  it  aside,  I  should  think  too  great  a 
hazard.  Still  reasons  may  soon  occur  to  render  such  an  at- 
tempt suitable  and  necessary.  The  quicker  the  business  is  com- 
pleted, the  better.  My  people  are  in  such  a  state,  as  to  prevent 
the  prospect  of  much  usefulness  among  them.  And  I  long  to  have 
it  decided  whether  I  am  to  go  or  stay.  At  the  proper  time,  I 
shall  lay  the  matter  before  them.  On  this  point,  I  expect  you: 
free  advice  at  all  times.  Suggest  whatever  you  think  of  any  con- 
sequence. Your  plan  about  inauguration  agrees  perfectly  with  my 
feelings.  In  my  last,  I  gave  my  opinion,  as  far  as  I  have  one,  about 

A 's  piece  against  General  Association.     I  will  keep  it  till  you 

decide  whether  to  publish  it  or  not.  I  rejoice  that  your  eyes  are 
in  a  hopeful  state.  You  will  be  in  danger  when  they  begin  to  ap- 
pear well.  So  many  things  will  press  that  you  will  hardly  be  able 
to  treat  them  prudently.  We  are  all  well.  My  complaint  is 
nearly  subsided.  Mrs.  W.  unites  in  most  affectionate  regards  to 
you  and  your  dear  family.  I  shall  make  arrangements  to  go  to 
Charlestown  before  long,  perhaps  the  first  or  second  week  in 
February.  Hope  to  hear  from  you  as  often  as  is  convenient. 

Don't  say  a  word  about  Dr. in  this  tottering  state  of  things.    I 

should  be  sorry  to  have  Dr.  S.  hear  his  name  mentioned  at  present. 

Yours  truly, 

L.  WOODS. 

P.  S. — I  have  no  doubt  but  the  men  proposed  may  be  appointed 
Visitors.  But  'tis  best  to  leave  that  business  to  its  proper  place. 
After  the  plan  of  a  joint  Board  is  agreed  on,  and  the  method  of 
choosing  them,  then  the  business  can  be  easily  accomplished. 

From  Dr.  Spring  to  Mr.  Norris. 

NEWBUETPOET,  Feb.  9,  1808. 

MY  BKOTHER, — I  read  the  Constitution  which  embraces  the 
joint  Board  of  Visitors  last  night  to  our  friends  Messrs.  Bartlett 
and  Brown.  And  as  you  will  see  by  their  letters  to  you  they  cor- 
dially accept  it.  I  told  them  last  night  that  I  should  see  you  this 
day.  But  I  find  Providence  prevents  me.  It  is  best  for  me  not 
to  go  to  Salem  on  the  business.  I  have  done  all  I  could  to  secure 
the  glorious  object  and  I  must  leave  it  with  God  and  you.  If  I 


APPENDIX.  561 

did  not  consider  the  union  desirable  and  the  great  object  as  safe 
as  poor  mortals  can  make  it,  I  would  not  say  another  word.  But, 
sir,  I  consider  it  safe.  I  have  lately  had  a  full  talk  with  Brother 
Woods.  He  has  opened  his  heart.  He  is  your  man  and  mine. 
He  tells  me  more  than  you  have  known  relative  to  Dr.  P.  There 
is,  it  is  believed,  no  danger  of  him.  He  will  help  us  on  with  the 
great  design  in  the  operation  at  Andover. 

The  joint  Board  was  adopted  to  relieve  you  and  me.  And 
what  can  we  have  more  on  equal  ground.  For  we  have  no  right 
to  monopolize.  The  five  Donors  remain  Visitors  till  death  or 
resignation  to  inspect  the  Institution.  They  jointly  elect  three 
others  who  shall  co-operate  jointly  with  them  and  vest  them  with 
power  to  supply  their  own  vacancies  and  to  remain  a  permanent 
Board  forever.  All  the  Visitors  at  the  outset  choose  jointly  the 
same  Professors,  so  that  Mr.  Woods  is  Mr.  Abbot's  Professor  of 
Revealed  Religion  and  your  Professor  of  Revealed  Religion,  and 
thus  every  Professor  in  each  department  will  be  the  choice  of  every 
Visitor.  I  ask,  what  can  we  have  more  on  tr  e  principle  of  equality  ? 
As  to  the  number  of  Visitors  who  will  constitute  the  permanent 
Board  after  the  death  of  the  Donors  THREE  ARE  ENOUGH.  Three  will 
feel  the  proper  weight  of  responsibility  more  than  five  or  ten  or  a 
thousand.  I  am  wholly  satisfied  with  the  number  three.  Before  the 
Donors  depart,  the  Institution  will  receive  its  grand  direction.  You 
will  easily  see  that  you,  and  your  two  associates,  will  be  able  to 
carry  a  vote  if  necessary,  against  the  other  two  in  the  election  of 
the  three  permanent  Visitors.  I  ask  again,  what  more  can  we  desire 
on  the  ground  of  equality  ?  I  say  it  once  more,  if  union  is  valuable 
and  desirable  in  present  circumstances,  it  is  realized  by  the  joint 
Board,  in  the  most  favorable  attitude,  and  the  seven  years  experi- 
ment will  take  care  of  the  Visitatorial  system.  You  have  my 
hearty  liberty  to  read  this  letter  to  Mrs.  Norris  who  will  feelingly 
enter  into  our  circumstances.  Please  to  make  her  my  grateful 
respects. 

I  believe  it  is  best  I  am  prevented  going  to  Salem  to-day.  I 
have  been  to  Salem  perhaps  too  often  for  my  advantage  and  your 
honor,  on  this  business.  The  good  Lord,  I  pray,  may  direct  you 
at  this  juncture  of  our  affairs.  As  you  decide  in  your  answer  to 
this  letter,  so  I  suppose  it  will  be.  I  hope,  I  pray,  that  we  may 
concur  in  this  business  forever.  We  must  not  be  separated  in 
our  exertions,  and  we  will  not  be  separated  in  our  affections.  If 
Brother  Woods  calls  on  you  when  he  returns  from  Boston,  you 
may  read  the  letter  to  him;  but  further  I  wish  not,  except  as  before 
said,  to  Mrs.  Norris  my  friend,  and  yourself.  No  alteration  in 


562       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

words  lias  been  made  in  the  Constitution  since  you  saw  it,  which 
prevents  your  decisive  answer.  I  am  now  in  haste  and  must 
subscribe, 

Your  friend  and  brother, 

S.  SPRING. 

From  Mr.  Bartlett  to  Mr.  Norris. 

NEWBUBYPOKT,  Feb.  9,  1808. 

DEAR  SIR, — it  is  some  time  since  I  had  the  pleasure  of  seeing 
you;  but  have  had  the  pleasure  of  hearing  that  you  enjoyed  your 
health  as  well  as  you  usually  have  done  of  late.  The  business 
which  I  hope  we  have  been  pursuing  with  right  views,  seems  to 
be  almost  ripe  for  to  be  put  in  motion.  Our  mutual  friend,  Mr. 
Spring,  was  with  Mr.  Brown  and  myself  last  evening,  and  the 
Constitution  was  again  read  to  us,  with  which  I  am  well  pleased. 
This  business  has  been  attended  with  particular  Providential  cir- 
cumstances. We  at  first  set  out  to  go  by  ourselves,  but  Providence 
seemed  to  hedge  up  the  way,  by  our  friends  offering  to  unite  in  a 
similar  Institution,  which  at  first  did  not  appear  to  promise  fair, 
but  since  the  clouds  have  been  in  a  measure  dispersed,  and  I  hope 
the  light  has  shone  so  bright,  that  the  path  we  are  about  to  enter 
upon  will  tend  to  promote  the  great  cause  we  profess  to  support; 
that  is,  to  dispense  the  true  knowledge  of  the  gospel  not  only  to 
those  who  think  themselves  favored  with  it,  but  are  really  ignorant, 
but  to  those  that  are  ignorant  and  perishing  for  the  want  of  it.  I 
do  think,  that  our  uniting  with  our  friends  at  Andover  has  a 
happy  appearance,  having  Dr.  Pearson's  assistance,  a  man  who  to 
my  satisfaction  is  a  thorough  Calvinist,  and  who  will,  I  have  no 
doubt,  exert  himself  to  promote  the  Institution  and  make  the 
Seminary  flourish.  I  think  he  with  the  others,  his  assistants,  who 
I  hope  will  be  equally  zealous,  and  equally  as  good  Christians,  will 
do  themselves  honor  and  feel  satisfied  with  their  undertakings. 
As  there  are  some  small  things  not  quite  as  we  could  wish,  yet 
on  the  whole,  I  hope  and  desire  we  might  eye  the  hand  of  Provi- 
dence, and  do  as  Peter  did,  arise  and  go  forward,  not  calling  any- 
thing common  or  unclean  that  God  has  cleansed,  but  pursue  the 
path  of  duty  as  it  appears  pointed  out.  Many  things  are  said,  and 
many  more  things  will  be  said,  but  if  the  name  of  the  G-od  of 
Heaven  is  with  us,  their  walls  and  towers  will  fall  before  the  word 
of  the  Lord.  I  am,  my  dear  sir, 

Your  friend  and  humble  servant, 

WM.  BARTLETT. 


APPENDIX.  563 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBUBT,  Feb.  14,  1808,  Sabbath  eve. 

VERY  DEAR  SIR, — Since  I  wrote  from  Newburyport  nothing  has 
come  to  my  view  deserving  notice  as  to  the  Institution.  Some 
reports  which  have  reached  me  by  way  of  Preceptor  Smith,  from 
Boston,  have  excited  my  astonishment  at  human  nature,  and  con- 
firmed me  in  the  belief,  that  there  is  no  way  to  escape  the  scourge 
of  evil  tongues;  and  have  led  me  to  think  that  the  only  way  is  for 
us  to  mind  our  own  business,  and  not  be  greatly  troubled  whether 
the  wind  be  East  or  West,  North  or  South.  We  cannot  do  all 
the  good  we  would.  The  state  of  the  world  forbids.  The  preju- 
dices of  multitudes  wi|l  necessarily  contract  our  usefulness  in  the 
Panoplist  and  in  the  Institution.  But  it  will  be  matter  of  great  joy, 
it  will  be  worth  living  for,  if,  through  grace,  we  can  do  some  little 
good  to  Zion,  if  we  can  plant  some  seeds,  which  will  come  up 
and  bear  fruit  by  and  by  when  we  are  no  more,  and  if  we  can  be 
instrumental  in  prolonging  the  welfare  of  a  community  now 
threatened  with  destruction. 

In  consequence  of  the  agitated  state  of  the  public  mind  re- 
specting the  Institution,  and  the  talking  of  people  respecting  me, 
as  a  Professor-elect  of  the  Institution,  I  am  inclined  to  utter  the 
thoughts  of  my  heart  without  reserve,  knowing  that  you  will 
excuse  the  freedom,  candidly  construct  my  intentions,  and  correct 
whatever  appears  erroneous. 

In  the  first  place  I  will  say,  what  need  not  be  said,  because 
you  know  it  already,  that  I  have  perfect  confidence  in  your  friend- 
ship, and  consider  it  as  one  of  my  most  precious  blessings  upon 
earth.  My  heart  swells  with  singular  joy  when  I  think  what  a 
father,  brother  and  friend  I  have  in  you.  The  impression  which 
you  have  made  on  my  heart  is  connected  with  the  tenderest, 
happiest  feelings.  And  I  hope  I  shall  ever  consider  your  reputa- 
tion and  usefulness  and  enjoyment  as  making  a  part  of  my  own. 
The  influence  which  you  used  at  Andover  in  my  favor  flowed  from 
the  excess  of  your  affection,  and  I  could  hardly  have  tolerated  it 
with  a  good  conscience,  had  I  not  known  the  unaccountable  con- 
nection which  the  appointment  would  have  with  the  plan  of  union. 
But  as  that  appeared  to  be  the  case,  and  as  your  mind  and  Dr. 
P.'s  and  Esqr.  F.'s  were  in  unison  with  mine  on  the  subject  of 
union,  and  as  they  as  well  as  you  were  so  solicitous  to  give  satis- 
faction to  Esqr.  Abbot  and  to  remove  the  objections  so  vigorously 
urged  from  various  quarters,  I  was  led  to  speak  with  more  free- 
dom, than  was  decorous,  on  my  own  religious  views,  and  to 


564      HISTORY  OF   ANDOYER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

represent  everything  in  as  satisfactory  a  light  as  I  honestly  could. 
All  this  when  discreetly  used  among  a  few  friends,  who  enjoyed 
each  other's  entire  confidence,  was  attended  with  no  danger,  be- 
cause everything  was  taken  in  its  proper  connection,  and  con- 
strued candidly  and  honorably.  But  what  end  can  be  answered 
by  the  attempts  which  any  of  my  friends  shall  make,  in  present 
circumstances,  to  satisfy  the  minds  of  those  who  look  with  an  un- 
candid,  suspicious  eye  upon  my  sentiments  ?  The  state  of  things 
is  such  that  the  most  friendly,  conciliating  suggestions  will  be 
seized  as  instruments  of  injury  and  of  death.  If  you  or  any  other 
friend  of  mine,  tell  the  host  of  adversaries  who  charge  me  with 
being  completely  and  in  all  respects  a  Hopkinsian,  that  this  is 
not  strictly  true;  that,  although  I  hold  the  main  things  which 
belong  to  that  system,  I  have  not  the  feelings  which  Hopkinsians 
have  had,  that  I  dwell  not  on  the  peculiarities  of  their  system  as 
they  generally  have  done,  that  I  reject  obnoxious  terms  and 
phrases,  that  I  treat  with  modest  reserve  and  indecision  some  of 
their  speculations,  and  am  altogether  disposed  to  shun  their  im- 
prudences, their  party  spirit  and  their  excesses,  what  use  will 
the  adversaries  make  of  all  this  ?  Will  it  contribute  to  their  sat- 
isfaction? Will  it  remove  their  difficulties ?  No;  they  will  seize 
it  as  an  advantage  against  me,  and  stigmatize  me  as  a  weather-cock, 
or  turn-coat.  They  are  resolved  not  to  receive  satisfaction.  If  I  am 
a  Hopkinsian,  they  will  turn  it  to  the  reproach  of  the  Institution 
and  of  my  character.  If  I  am  not,  they  will  still  make  it  a  matter 
of  reproach  both  to  me  and  the  Institution.  What  is  to  be  done 
then  in  order  to  remove  prejudices  and  prepare  the  way  for  my 
usefulness  ?  These  are  my  thoughts.  I  have  my  character  still 
to  form  in  the  view  of  the  public.  It  must  be  formed  by  public, 
official  conduct.  All  that  can  be  said  now,  will  not  remove  the  in- 
quiries in  the  public  mind  and  afford  real  satisfaction.  I  am  will- 
ing that  public  opinion  should  be  suspended,  till  the  operations 
of  the  Institution  shall  decide.  The  less  said  the  better,  except 
in  some  very  rare  case,  to  a  serious  confidential  friend.  The  host 
of  opposers  and  enemies  are  not  to  be  silenced  and  quieted.  We 
are  not  to  expect  it.  To  attempt  to  do  it  will  be  lost  labor.  If 
they  are  ever  silenced,  it  must  be  by  the  extensive  usefulness  of 
the  Institution  to  the  cause  of  Zion,  and  to  the  character  and 
welfare  of  the  community.  In  this  way  we  cannot  do  too  much. 
In  this  design  let  us  all  unite.  I  devote  my  life  to  efforts  for  the 
accomplishment  of  this  glorious  end.  Nor  shall  I  willingly  fall 
below  any  one  in  endeavors  to  harmonize  all  who  are  on  orthodox 
ground.  It  has  been  my  darling  object  many  years.  It  is  no 


APPENDIX.  565 

new  start  to  gain  popularity.  I  have  viewed  the  distance  and 
division  among  Calvinists  as  an  incalculable  evil.  To  remove 
this  evil,  and  secure  the  influence  of  all  orthodox  men,  whether 
of  the  old  school  or  the  new,  in  favor  of  the  Seminary,  I  will 
study  the  most  wise,  prudent,  cautious,  inoffensive  manner  in 
everything.  I  shall  try  to  imitate  my  amiable  Preceptor,  Dr. 
Backus,  who  was  suaviter  in  modo,fortiler  in  re.  But  for  the  present, 
I  query  whether  a  single  advantage  can  be  gained  by  attempting 
to  banish  that  multitude  of  prejudices,  which  are  put  in  battle 
array  against  us.  The  storm  will  abate, — the  clouds  will  be 
scattered — but  time  must  be  had  for  it.  One  idea  of  some  con- 
sequence here  occurs.  If  those  who  are  called  Hopkinsians,  a 
very  numerous  and  valuable  part  of  the  clergy  in  New  England, 
are  disposed  to  put  confidence  in  me,  it  may  do  good,  and  help 
to  secure  their  attachment  to  the  Institution.  But  if  enough  be 
said  and  done  to  satisfy  Boston,  etc.,  that  I  am  what  they  wish,  it 
will  destroy  the  confidence  of  Hopkinsians,  and  tend  to  perpet- 
uate the  division.  You  recollect  it  was  our  plan  from  the  first 
that  the  Seminary  should  be  so  constituted  as  to  bring  in  all  the 
orthodox.  Further;  I  wish  the  ground  may  not  be  forgotten 
which  has  been  taken  all  along  with  Dr.  Spring  and  the  Donors 
with  reference  to  the  union;  viz.,  that  there  is  no  real,  essential 
difference  of  opinion  among  those  who  can  unite  on  Catechism 
ground.  We  are  all  united  there.  We  have  there  a  Creed  which  we 
all  embrace.  It  is  my  Creed.  I  can  honestly  make  all  the  declara- 
tions required,  and  expect  to  teach  and  preach  according  to  it, 
not  deviating  to  the  right  hand  or  to  the  left.  By  this  Creed  ! 
I  wish  to  be  known.  By  this  Creed  the  orthodoxy  of  the  Semi- 
nary must  be  known.  Let  all  be  referred  to  that.  There  is  our 
faith.  On  that  model  must  ministers  be  formed,  and  by  that 
must  the  fate  of  the  Seminary  be  decided.  If  it  can  live  on  such 
principles,  we  shall  think  it  a  symptom  of  good  to  the  church. 
If  it  cannot  live  on  such  principles,  let  it  die. 

Feb.  15,  Monday  morning. 

Upon  a  review  of  what  I  have  written,  I  suppose  you  will 
naturally  inquire  whether,  in  any  part,  I  refer  to  attempts,  which 
my  friends  have  recently  made  to  remove  objections  against  my 
character?  I  reply.  From  some  reports,  I  conclude  that  they 
have  not  been  inattentive  to  my  name,  but  I  have  reason  to  think 
that  their  kind  attempts  have  in  many  instances  been  perverted 

1  "When  this  was  written  the  Catechism  stood  alone  as  the  Creed  of  the 
Andover  Seminary.  The  Associate  Creed  was  added  afterwards. 


566       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

to  an  unkind  purpose.  I  am  fully  convinced  that  it  will  be  best 
for  us  all  in  present  circumstances  to  maintain  as  much  silence, 
as  to  sentiment,  as  possible,  lest  what  we  mean  for  good  be 
turned  to  evil,  or  what  answers  a  valuable  purpose  on  one  hand, 
will  produce  an  evil  which  will  more  than  countervail  it,  on  the 
other  hand.  We  wish  for  a  union  in  Panoplist.  "We  hope  for  it. 
Could  we  obtain  it  in  connection  with  General  Association  and 
the  Seminary,  it  would  answer  a  thousand  good  purposes.  As 
this  is  our  object  we  must  be  cautious,  lest  by  something  drop- 
ping from  our  lips,  or  creeping  into  our  publication,  we  should 
drive  the  Missionary  Society  farther  off.  In  my  view  it  is  of  the 
greatest  consequence,  to  take  such  measures,  as  will  afford  a 
good  degree  of  satisfaction  to  the  Hopkinsians.  With  all  the 
odium  attached  to  their  name,  they  are  a  thousand  times  more 
valuable,  and  more  influential  on  religious  ground,  than  the  half 
orthodox,  who  lean  so  much  towards  Socinians,  that  there  is  no 
telling  which  way  they  will  go.  I  know  your  situation  is  such, 
that  your  vigilance  will  naturally  be  directed  to  the  dangers  aris- 
ing from  the  liberal  and  heretical  quarter.  It  is  well  for  the 
Seminary  and  for  Zion,  that  you  are  placed  where  you  are.  But 
others  are  in  a  situation  more  particularly  to  observe,  or  more 
sensibly  to  feel  the  danger  of  losing  the  patronage  and  con- 
currence of  the  Hopkinsians.  Hence  the  great  advantage  of  a 
good  understanding,  frequent  intercourse,  and  entire  confidence, 
between  you  and  some  others  in  different  situations  and  connec- 
tions; so  that  measures  in  the  Institution  and  in  other  matters 
may  be  adopted  under  the  influence  of  that  united  wisdom,  which 
will  duly  weigh  all  the  circumstances  and  exigencies  of  the  relig- 
ious community.  My  heart  longs  and  pants  for  such  a  state  of 
things,  that  there  will  be  a  free,  unsuspicious  consultation  for  the 
interest  of  the  churches  among  all  orthodox,  pious  men. 

Dr.  Pearson  and  Esqr.  Farrar  have  just  left  me  for  Newbury- 
port.  In  the  course  of  the  conversation,  without  referring  to 
any  particulars,  Dr.  P.  observed,  that  "  talking  can  do  no  good.  The 
Institution  must  form  its  own  character  by  its  own  operations"  He  is 
satisfied  that  the  public  mind  at  present  is  in  such  a  state,  that 
direct  attempts  to  remove  objections  and  difficulties  will  be  in 
vain. 

Mr.  called  on  me  Monday,  while  I  was  on  the  way  to 

Charlestown.     He  appears  disposed  to  friendship.     I  hope  soon 
to  have  a  happy  interview  with  him. 

I  hope  this  visit  of  Dr.  P.  and  Esqr.  F.  will  bring  the  business 
near  to  its  consummation.  The  Lord  hasten  it  in  His  time.  Accept 


APPENDIX.  567 

our  respects  and  our  love,  and  present  the  same  to  Mrs.  M.,  Mrs. 
B.,  Miss.  B.  and  others.  You  will  excuse  this  long  letter  from 
your  sincere  friend  and  brother, 

L.  WOODS. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Murdoch. 

NEWBURT,  Feb.  22,  1808. 

Your  letter  on  the  union  gave  me  great  pleasure.  It  contrib- 
uted to  satisfy  the  minds  of  several,  particularly  of  two  of  the 
Donors,  that  union  was  indispensable.  Providence  has  helped  us 
along,  through  unnumbered  difficulties,  and  unexpected  dangers. 
After  many  delays  and  hindrances  from  various  quarters,  we  are 
now  taking  the  last  step.  And  wonderful  as  it  may  seem,  and 
really  is,  every  obstacle,  every  objection,  and  every  delay,  has 
issued  so  as  to  bring  forward  a  more  complete  and  a  much  better 
coalition,  than  any  of  us  expected,  or  thought  of,  in  the  early 
'part  of  the  business.  The  issue  of  the  long  struggle  is  likely  to  be 
such,  that  the  information  of  it,  when  first  received,  filled  me  with 
an  overwhelming  joy,  such  as  I  never  felt  before,  on  any  earthly 
subject. — But  I  omit  particulars  till  I  see  you;  they  are  too  many 
for  a  letter.  I  have  said  enough  to  set  your  mind  at  rest.  It  is 
probable  the  Seminary  will  be  opened  in  May.  And  I  will  add, 
SUB  ROSA,  for  the  present,  it  is  designed  that  President  Dwight, 
who  is  to  be  one  of  the  Visitors,  shall  perform  the  leading  part  on 
the  occasion.  We  shall  wish  you  and  all  the  friends  of  truth  and 
love,  to  help  us  with  your  presence  and  your  prayers.  The  oc- 
casion will  be  interesting  in  a  high  degree,  as  so  much  good  or 
evil  must  result  from  the  Institution,  and  as  so  much  depends 
on  its  first  direction  and  operation. 

Your  sincere  friend, 

L.  WOODS. 

From  Dr.  Pearson  to  Dr.  Morse. 

ANDOVEE,  Feb.  24,  1808. 

DEAR  SIR, — I  thank  you  for  your  favor,  just  now  received  by 
your  son,  who  is  safely  arrived.  When  denied  the  pleasure  of 
seeing,  I  am  always  happy  in  hearing  from  my  friends.  Though 
the  Statutes  of  the  Associate  Founders  are  not  perhaps  even  at  this 
moment  signed,  the  last  visit  at  Newburyport  was  not,  I  trust,  in 
vain.  Several  valuable  improvements  were  made  in  them,  among 
which  is  the  provision  for  completing  the  union  at  a  period  short 


568      HISTORY  OP  ANDOVER   THEOLOGICAL   SEMINARY. 

of  seven  years,  if  all  parties  should  be  satisfied  with  a  shorter  experi- 
ment; and  also  for  introducing  during  the  joint  lives  of  the  three 
Founders,  and  within  seven  years,  such  additional  statutes,  as  ex- 
perience may  dictate.  Dr.  S.  was  to  take  a  new  and  fair  copy  of 
the  whole  to  Salem  the  beginning  of  this  week,  for  Mr.  N.'s  in- 
spection, and  if  he  approves,  a  meeting  of  the  Donors  for  the 
purpose  of  signature  was  contemplated  to  be  at  Newburyport. 
But  such  is  the  peculiar  complexion  and  state  of  the  good  man's 
mind,  and  so  busy  are  many  around  him,  that  I  have  no  confidence 
that  Dr.  S.  will  be  able  to  secure  his  approbation  at  this  time, 
though  he  means  to  make  a  vigorous  effort.  Should  he  succeed, 
I  hope  the  papers  will  be  soon  forwarded  to  us.  In  which  case 
no  time  will  be  lost  in  calling  a  meeting  of  our  Board,  which  must 
be  at  Andover.  By  the  way,  the  time  named  in  the  Associate  Stat- 
utes for  the  first  meeting  of  their  Visitors  (and  this  at  Andover)  is 
the  17th  of  May,  upon  the  supposition  that  the  inauguration  may  be 
the  next  day,  and  Mr.  H.'s  ordination  the  week  preceding.  Why 
cannot  this  be,  say  on  the  preceding  Thursday,  and  so  all  inter- 
ference prevented  ?  I  hope  the  day  for  the  ordination  is  not  ab- 
solutely fixed,  since  it  is  difficult  to  alter  a  day  constitutionally  fixed 
by  statute.  I  think  it  important  to  fill  the  vacancy  in  our  Board 
immediately,  if  we  can  unite  in  a  proper  character.  We  do  not 
here  feel  at  present  prepared  to  give  up  Dr.  Abeel  as  Professor 
of  Sacred  Eloquence,  and  are  unwilling  to  believe  that  he  is  abso- 
lutely unattainable.  As  Mr.  B.  will  appoint  his  own  Professor, 
his  election  by  the  Trustees  will  be  superseded. 

A  second  permanent  instructor,  I  view  as  indispensable,  and 
hope  the  committee  will  be  prepared  to  report  on  this  subject  at 
the  first  meeting  of  the  Trustees.  We  must  not  lose  Mr.  Day. 
If  you  have  a  convenient  opportunity,  do  sound  Deacon  Phillips' 
feelings  on  this  subject;  I  left  with  him  a  copy  of  the  vote  of  the 
Trustees  relative  thereto;  explain  to  him  the  nature,  necessity  and 
advantage  of  such  a  provision;  and  give  me  the  result  of  the  con- 
versation. At  the  first  meeting  of  the  Committee  of  Exigencies,  I 
will  mention  the  application  of  Messrs.  Abbot  and  Nelson  and  ac- 
quaint you  with  their  decision.  I  regret  very  much  your  embar- 
rassment, occasioned  by  Dr.  P.  But  as  to  the  charge  of  "  turn- 
coat and  weather-cocks,"  I  hope  and  trust  that,  while  conscien- 
tiously engaged  in  the  cause  of  truth  and  of  God,  we  shall  be 
rendered  duly  insensible  to  the  censure  and  praise  of  man.  If 
permitted  to  possess  the  hope,  we  must  be  willing,  joyfully  willing, 
to  be  partakers  of  the  afflictions  of  the  gospel.  Did  our  Divine 
Master  suffer  even  to  death,  and  can  we  have  the  face  to  ask 


APPENDIX.  569 

exemption  from  trials  ?  Is  the  servant  above  his  Lord  ?  If  they 
called  the  master  of  the  house  Beelzebub,  how  much  more  those  of 
his  household  ?  Wherefore  let  us  not  be  weary  in  well-doing,  nor 
faint  under  suffering;  knowing  that  in  due  time,  we  shall  reap  a 
glorious  harvest.  With  heaven  in  our  eye,  with  the  company  of 
martyrs  before  us,  with  the  general  assembly  of  saints  in  our 
.view,  and  with  the  hope  of  being  admitted  after  a  short  warfare 
to  sit  down  with  our  ascended  Jesus  on  His  throne,  and  of  being 
admitted  into  the  presence  of  Jehovah,  to  be  made  like  Him  in 
holiness,  and  to  enjoy  Him  forever;  is  it  possible  for  us  to  be 
moved  by  the  mistaken  apprehensions  and  unguarded  speeches 
of  men  of  this  world,  led  blindfold  by  the  god  of  this  world,  ex- 
cept it  be  to  pity  and  pray  for  them,  and  to  exert  ourselves  more 
than  ever,  that  they,  as  well  as  others,  may  be  brought  to  the 
knowledge  of  the  truth  and  be  saved  ?  Oh  that  our  hearts  may 
be  filled  with  the  spirit  of  Jesus,  and  overflow  with  benevo- 
lence to  our  fellow  sinners !  If  we  have  indeed  tasted  that 
the  Lord  is  gracious,  let  us  manifest  our  gratitude  by  do- 
ing everything  in  our  power  to  convince  others  of  the  same 
truth,  and  in  the  meekness  of  wisdom,  and  by  our  unwearied 
benevolence,  let  us  convince  gainsayers;  and  let  "Chrisio  duce" 
be  our  motto. 

Thursday  noon. 

I  have  kept  my  letter  open  till  now,  hoping  to  have  some- 
thing to  communicate  from  Newburyport.  But  am  disappointed. 
I  fear  all  is  not  right  at  Salem.  The  communication  how- 
ever may  be  made  through  Charlestown.  Let  me  know  every- 
thing interesting,  as  I  do  not  expect  to  see  you  these  ten 
days.  Hope  you  will  be  careful  of  your  health,  and  particu- 
larly of  your  eyes.  Mrs.  P  and  Maria  join  me  in  presenting  our 
affectionate  respects  to  each  of  your  amiable  fireside,  and  believe 
me  as  ever, 

Your  very  sincere  friend, 

E.  PEARSON. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBUET,  Feb.  26,  1808. 

MY  DEARLY  BELOVED  SIR, — Yours  of  the  23d  inst.  was  re- 
ceived the  next  day.  I  have  deferred  writing,  that  I  might 
give  information  respecting  the  measures  at  Newburyport,  and 
Salem.  To-morrow  I  expect  to  go  to  Newburyport,  and  shall 


570       HISTORY  OF   ANDOYER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

leave  a  place  in  this  letter  to  give  you  an  account  of  what  has 
been  done  this  week.  I  hope  to  find  everything  in  the  best 
state. 

It  grieves  me  to  think  that  I  wrote  in  a  manner  to  give  you  so 
much  pain.  I  wrote  in  a  gloomy,  agitated  state  of  mind,  when 
every  expression  was  extravagant.  Your  letter  in  which  there  is 
so  much  gentleness,  and  love,  and  prudence,  has  scattered  every 
cloud,  and  filled  me  with  quiet  and  joy.  I  have  not  an  uncom- 
fortable thought  or  emotion,  as  to  anything  you  have  said  or 
done.  From  the  first,  it  was  my  full  belief,  that  your  friendly, 
brotherly  efforts  had  been  perverted.  As  our  views  respecting 
the  rules  of  discretion  and  judgment  in  these  circumstances  so 
entirely  harmonize,  there  is  no  need  of  any  farther  enlargement 
on  the  subject.  As  to  myself;  it  does  not  trouble  me  to  expect, 
that  the  darts  of  malice  will  be  shot  at  me.  I  can  sleep  well  in  the 
midst  of  a  shower.  But  when  anything  takes  place  which  threatens 
the  Institution,  or  the  harmony  of  orthodox  ministers,  it  ought  to 
be  felt.  Oh,  may  the  Lord  help  us,  and  teach  us  in  everything 
that  we  may  know  how  to  take  care  of  His  cause.  As  to  you,  be- 
loved sir,  He  will  give  you  support.  He  will  not  leave  you.  No 
burden  will  be  laid  upon  you,  which  He  will  not  strengthen  you 
to  bear.  You  will  be  called  to  no  duty,  which  He  will  not  help 
you  to  perform.  He  has  helped  you  in  times  past,  and  will  not 
fail  you  in  time  to  come.  Such  a  review  of  His  amazing  kindness,  as 
we  once  took  when  we  slept  together  at  your  house,  tends  to  ex- 
cite gratitude,  and  to  strengthen  faith  in  God.  How  wonderfully 
has  He  brought  us  along !  What  opportunities  of  usefulness  has  He 
given  us !  What  friends  has  He  raised  up  for  us !  What  influence 
has  He  given  us  !  He  has  placed  you  in  the  front  of  the  battle, 
and  I  doubt  not  He  will  help  you  to  fight  "  a  good  fight."  But 
you  must  take  care  of  your  slender  health,  and  save  all  your 
strength  for  the  best,  works. 

Your  difficulties  with  Dr. give  me  painful  feelings.  I  thank 

you  for  your  caution  respecting  him.  My  mind  is  prone  to  con- 
fide. I  am  disarmed  and  satisfied,  when  a  man  appears  frank  and 

friendly.  Mrs.  W knew  my  weakness,  and  said  to  me,  when 

I  was  setting  out  to  visit  him,  "Remember  caution  will  do  no 
hurt."  I  pray  that  you  may  have  the  meekness  of  wisdom,  so 
that,  whatever  be  the  conduct  of  others,  yours  may  be  to  the 
praise  of  God,  and  the  furtherance  of  His  cause.  I  have  a  great 
desire  to  see  you.  I  know  not  yet  how  to  answer  your  agreeable 
request  that  I  would  spend  a  Sabbath  with  you.  I  will  inform 
you  as  soon  as  I  am  determined,  which  will  be  in  favor  of  coining, 


APPENDIX.  571 

if  it  will  bear.     'Tis  most  likely,  according  to  present  views,  that 
it  must  be  deferred  a  little  longer. 

NEWBURYPORT,  Saturday,  Feb.  27. 

Dr.  Spring  has  been  to  Salem.  After  much  reasoning  in  vain, 
he  resorted  to  prayers  and  tears. 

Mr.  N.  has  signed.  The  others  are  ready.  All  will  be  exe- 
cuted next  week.  Deo  vol. 

Adieu, 

L.  W. 

From  Mr.  Norris  to  Dr.  Church. 

SALEM,  Feb.  26,  1808. 

REV.  AND  DEAR  SIB, — I  received  your  kind  letters,  and  duly 
note  the  contents,  for  which  be  pleased  to  receive  my  sincere 
thanks.  Your  goodness  will  forgive  my  not  answering  your 
kind  letters  before.  Indisposition,  and  the  many  other  necessary 
calls  in  my  business,  together  with  the  feeling  anxiety,  and  the  ex- 
ercise of  my  mind  on  our  great  and  good  object,  the  Theological 
Institution,  has  crowded  on  me,  and  taken  up  all  my  time  and 
attention.  We  have  been  led  in  the  course  of  Divine  Providence 
in  a  path  which  we  did  not  see  when  we  first  contemplated  this 
great  object.  God's  ways  are  wonderful,  and  we  are  now  brought 
into  that  path  which  we  hope  and  trust  is  God's  direction,  and 
will  be  for  His  glory;  a  union  with  Andover  Seminary  on  an  experi- 
ment of  seven  years  on  Visitatorial  principles. 

I  have  made  my  offering,  and  signed  the  Constitution,  and  I 
hope  and  trust  with  uprightness  of  soul,  and  godly  sincerity,  as  an 
offering  to  my  Saviour,  which  I  hope  He  will  own  and  bless. 
Oh  may  this  Institution  be  His,  and  owned  and  blessed  by  Him,  for 
His  own  glory.  My  dear  friend,  let  us  hope  and  pray  that  the 
ministers  of  Jesus,  His  dear  Church  and  people  may  be  refreshed 
by  the  streams  from  this  great  Institution. 

Accept  our  love  and  respect  for  yourself  and  family, 

JOHN  NORRIS. 

P.  S. — Mr.  S.  went  from  here  this  morning.  We  unite  with 
Mr.  Abbot,  in  the  choice  of  all  the  Professors. 

From  Dr.  Pearson  to  Dr.  Morse. 

ANDOVER,  Feb.  29,  1808. 

MY  DEAR  SIR, — "  This  is  the  Lord's  doing,  and  it  is  wondrous 
in  our  eyes.  Bless  the  Lord,  O  my  soul ;  bless  Him  all  ye  His  saints. " 


572       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

How  visible,  how  wonderful  lias  been  the  hand  of  God  in  this 
event!  After  laboring  eleven  months  under  unexpected  em- 
barrassments, and  struggling  with  invincible  obstacles,  how  are 
we  extricated  !  By  the  very  finger  of  God.  When  all  human 
efforts,  reasonings,  and  hopes  failed,  God  became  our  refuge  in 
prayer;  He  heard,  and  said,  "Let  there  be  light ; "  and  the  heart 
of  His  servant  was  turned,  the  scales  fell  from  his  eyes,  and  with 
his  hand  he  subscribed  for  the  Lord;  and  let  God  have  all  the 
glory.  Not  unto  us,  not  unto  us,  but  unto  thy  name,  O  most 
mighty,  be  all  the  praise;  who  hast  done  all  things  well;  and  in 
such  a  way,  as  to  exclude  boasting  from  man,  and  to  teach  us 
humility,  dependence,  and  faith.  Oh  that  our  hearts  may  be  all 
gratitude  and  devotion  to  God,  love  and  good  will  to  man !  In 
the  exercise  of  this  temper,  and  with  constant  reliance  on  God 
alone,  let  us  set  forward  in  this  great  work.  We  have  difficulties 
and  it  is  doubtless  best  for  us,  that  we  have  difficulties  still  to 
encounter.  Let  us  engage  in  the  strength  of  the  Lord,  and  be 
gentle  toward  all  men,  even  toward  them  that  oppose  themselves 
as  well  as  God's  truth;  remembering  that  we  ourselves  were 
sometimes  in  darkness;  and  that  if  now,  light  in  the  Lord,  we 
can  never  pray  too  much,  do  too  much,  nor  suffer  too  much 
that  others  may  be  brought  to  the  knowledge  of  the  truth  and 
saved.  Wherefore,  let  us  be  steadfast  and  immovable,  always 
abounding  in  the  work  of  the  Lord;  inasmuch  as  we  find  that  our 
labor  is  ^ot  in  vain.  My  kindest  salutations  attend  all  who  are 
dear  to  you;  and  may  God  strengthen,  direct,  and  bless  you, 
prays  your  constant  friend, 

E.  PEARSON. 

From  Dr.  Church  to  Mr.  Norris. 

PELHAM,  N.  H.,  Feb.  29,  1808. 

KESPECTED  SIR, — Your  favor  of  the  26th  inst.  is  exceedingly 
precious  and  gratifying.  It  gives  me  much  joy.  I  rejoice  that 
"you  have  made  your  offering  and  signed  the  Constitution."  By 
such  offerings  made  in  love  to  Christ,  and  the  souls  of  men,  your 
treasures  will  be  great  in  heaven.  Thanks  be  unto  the  Lord  that 
you  enjoy  the  privilege  of  being  able  to  dedicate  so  much  to  Him, 
for  the  advancement  of  His  kingdom.  May  you  see  your  best  and 
most  enlarged  desires  fulfilled  in  the  prosperity  and  usefulness  of 
the  Seminary.  I  hope  you  will  have  increasing  evidence  of  the 
Lord's  wise  and  merciful  direction  in  the  steps  you  are  now  tak- 
ing. Many  prayers  I  trust  have  been  offered  unto  God,  that 


APPENDIX.  573 

those  concerned  in  founding  the  Institution,  and  in  forming  the 
Statutes,  etc.,  may  be  wisely  directed.  These  prayers  I  hope  are 
graciously  answered.  Numbers  have  trembled  lest  the  union 
should  not  take  place.  A  worthy  brother  in  the  ministry,  the 
Kev.  Mr.  McFarland  of  Concord,  who  has  lately  published,  "  A  His- 
torical View  of  Heresies,"  observed  in  a  letter  some  time  since,  that 
if  the  union  was  not  effected,  the  issue  would  be  just  what  the 
enemies  of  evangelical  truth  would  wish.  This,  I  believe,  has 
been  the  decided  opinion  of  others.  How  animating  it  must  be 
to  all  who  love  the  truth  as  it  is  in  Jesus,  to  see  His  Mends  firmly 
uniting  in  support  of  His  cause !  How  many  will  give  thanks  to  God 
that  you,  dear  sir,  and  your  very  worthy  associates,  are  devising 
and  accomplishing  such  liberal  and  extensive  measures  for  pro- 
moting the  cause  of  truth !  How  many  generations  yet  unborn 
may  enjoy  your  liberality  and  call  you  blessed ! 

I  hope,  my  honored  sir,  you  will  enjoy  more  satisfaction  re- 
specting the  state  of  your  own  soul.  You  are  sensible  that  a  man 
may  give  all  his  goods  for  charitable  purposes,  and  yet  be  desti- 
tute of  that  love  which  unites  the  soul  to  God  through  Christ. 
This  love,  I  hope,  is  shed  abroad  in  your  heart  by  the  Holy 
Ghost.  May  you  abound  more  and  more  in  this  love.  May  the 
Spirit  witness  with  your  spirit,  that  you  are  a  child  of  God  and 
heir  of  glory.  How  abundant  then  will  be  your  peace  and  joy. 
May  your  amiable  and  worthy  consort  enjoy  the  same  unspeakable 
blessings.  May  you  walk  together  as  heirs  of  the  grace  of  life, 
enjoying  the  love  of  Jesus,  with  the  abundance  of  your  earthly 
possessions,  and  finally  be  received  to  dwell  with  Him  in  glory. 
Accept,  respected  Sir,  and  Madam,  our  united  love  and  respects. 
Your  friend  and  humble  servant, 

JOHN  H.  CHURCH. 

From  Dr.  Spring  to  Mr.  Norris. 

NEWBUBTPOBT,  March  7,  1808. 

HONORED  AND  DEAR  FRIEND, — I  am  bound  to  communicate  all 
matters  of  importance.  I  have,  previously  to  showing  the  ar- 
ticles, as  you  condescendingly  regard  them,  been  to  Andover 
to  obtain  an  alteration  of  that  article  relative  to  the  permanent 
Board  of  three.  As  it  stood  the  Board  must  consist  of  two 
clergymen  and  one  layman.  I  have  been  dissatisfied  with  it,  for 
in  case  of  the  death  of  one  clergyman,  the  layman,  who  may  be 
a  law  character,  may  have  much  influence  under  their  Trustees 
who  are  electors  to  pervert  our  design;  and  in  case  of  the  death 


574       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

of  the  two  ministers  the  layman  or  the  law  character  may  rule 
the  whole  business  by  choosing  a  wrong  character  who  will  elect 
another  wrong  character.  I  think  the  door  for  the  election  of 
the  third  Visitor  ought  to  be  left  by  the  article  open  for  the  two 
ministers  in  case  of  a  vacancy  to  elect  from  the  ministry  a  Davis., 
if  thought  best;  or  a  Thornton  from  the  laity,  if  it  be  thought  best. 
What  say  you  to  this  article  f  I  could  not  get  Dr.  Pearson's  con- 
sent directly.  Mr.  Farrar  made  the  alteration  with  his  own 
hand,  and  I  supposed  the  business  done,  for  the  Doctor  was  silent 
when  he  did  it,  and  his  silence  was  taken  for  consent,  but  the 
Doctor  has  come  down  and  opposed  it.  We  have  laid  the  matter 
before  your  brother  Donors.  Nothing  is  decided.  I  write  to  YOU, 
SIR,  and  hope  you  will  give  us  a  line  by  the  first  mail.  Make  love 
to  your  lady,  and  let  me  be  yours  forever, 

S.  SPRING. 

P.  S. — We  must  have  the  door  open  to  elect  the  best  of  min- 
isters or  the  best  of  laymen,  as  needed.  They  have  not  a  word  to 
say  against  it,  on  the  principle  that  there  will  be  two  ministers  in 
the  Board.  For  it  is  a  Theological  Institution  and  not  a  Medical 
Institution,  and  must  be  backed  up  by  ministers.  If  we  can't  now 
have  what  we  ask  for,  we  can  have  what  we  insist  upon  having. 
The  ship  is  near  about  sailing,  and  we  must  see  to  it  that  she  is 
well  officered  and  manned. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBURY,  March  11,  1808. 

MOST  BELOVED  SIR, — I  have  been  waiting  for  the  time  when 
I  could  tell  you  that  the  business  of  the  three  Donors  is  com- 
pleted. When  I  wrote  last,  I  expected  it  would  have  been  done 
long  before  this  time.  The  delay  is  not  to  give  any  alarm,  though 
it  is  in  itself  painful.  The  simple  fact  is  this.  In  order  to  induce 
Mr.  Norris  to  subscribe,  Dr.  S.  found  it  necessary  to  make  some 
minute  alterations.  Looking  over  the  Statutes  again,  after  he 
got  home,  he  thought  of  some  more  still.  We  judged  it  best  to 
have  an  intervew  with  Dr.  P.  and  Esqr.  F.  with  reference  to  those 
alterations.  This  took  place  the  beginning  of  last  week.  Every- 
thing was  agreeably  settled  except  one  point,  which  has  been  the 
subject  of  consideration  since,  but  which  will  not,  I  know,  make 
any  difficulty.  The  whole  is  now  in  the  hands  of  a  transcriber, 
who  is  preparing  the  last  copy.  I  have  no  doubt  but  it  will  be 
finished,  and  signed,  and  sent  to  Andover  next  week.  We  find  all 


APPENDIX.  575 

our  plans  are  vain,  unless  it  please  God  to  succeed  them.  These 
scenes  are  fitted  to  teach  us  wisdom.  "We  are  to  learn  that  rap- 
tures are  not  the  portion  of  man.  Nothing  conies  unmingled. 
Something  has  attended  every  instance  of  success -in  our  great 
business,  which  tends  to  mortify  and  humble  us.  I  hope  it  will 
prepare  us  for  duty  and  usefulness.  Since  I  saw  you,  I  have  had, 
if  possible,  more  objects  of  attention  than  ever.  I  have  seen  the 
dangers  which  surround  us  in  this  last  stage  of  the  business;  and 
have  not  been  inattentive  to  the  necessary  means  of  safety  to  our 
great  object.  I  went  to  Andover  with  Dr.  S.  How  many  times 
I  have  been  to  Newburyport,  I  know  not;  and  how  many  letters 
I  have  written,  and  how  many  hours  of  anxious  contemplation  I 
have  had,  I  know  not.  These  things  I  mention,  to  account  for 
the  little  I  have  done  in  other  respects.  I  meant  to  finish  an- 
other number  of  Pastor,  but  have  not.  The  answer  to  J.  on  Gen- 
eral Association  is  done,  such  as  it  is.  I  have  given  long  and 
careful  attention  to  that  thing.  I  am  more  and  more  satisfied 

that  it  is  best  to  publish.     The  long  piece  from  Dr.  L 's  friend 

will  never  do  for  us.  Should  rather  write  a  whole  number  of  the 
Panoplist  de  novo,  than  to  make  that  piece  fit  for  publication.  We 
can  give  a  handsome  acknowledgment,  assigning  the  length  as  a 
principal  reason  for  deferring  the  publication,  and  let  it  be  grad- 
ually forgotten.  The  piece  on  Justification  is  not  written  by  a 
weak  man.  A  number  or  two  of  profitable  matter  may  be  had 
from  it. 

As  to  Magazine  and  Panoplist,  I  conversed  with  Dr.  S.  yester- 
day. He  will  not  oppose  our  wishes,  but,  as  T  have  real  reason 
to  expect,  will  favor  them.  He  thinks  further,  if  Dr.  Emmons  can 
get  his  mind  informed  and  settled  as  to  union  in  the  Seminary,  he 
will  not  oppose  union  in  Panoplist.  The  Magazine  affords  nothing 
for  their  fund;  and  who  will  take  the  responsibility  of  publishing  it,  is 
a  hard  question.  From  Sanf ord  and  Niles,  as  Dr.  S.  thinks,  we  should 
have  opposition.  And  they  will  have  influence.  But  Sanford  is  para- 
lytic, if  I  mistake  not,  and  Niles'  influence  must  be  countervailed 
by  previous  attention  to  secure  weight  on  our  side.  I  will  sound 
Dr.  Worcester  and  the  Emersons  soon.  Think  of  the  proposals 
which  we  can  make,  as  most  likely  to  conciliate.  We  must  offer 
to  publish  everything  they  send  as  a  Society.  We  must  invite 
them  to  write,  etc.,  and  tell  them,  if  one  year's  experiment  does 
not  convince  them  that  their  union  with  us  is  better  for  their 
funds  and  better  on  every  account,  they  can  return  to  their  own 
separate  ground.  To  this  subject  I  will  give  as  much  attention 
as  possible.  I  am  happy  to  find  that  your  prospect  with  respect 


576      HISTORY  OF  ANDOYER   THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

to  Dr.  P.  is  more  agreeable;  hope  before  now  it  is  clear  sky.     As 

to  Mr. ,  I  can't  say  much.     He  has  made  me  a  visit.     Much 

was  said,  but  I  was  very  cautious.  The  door  is  left  open  for 
further  correspondence  or  conversation.  I  expect  he  will  write. 
I  propose  to  write  myself.  I  intend  to  see  you  next  week.  I 
shall  send  nothing  before  I  come,  if  I  can  do  as  I  hope,  that  is, 
see  you  by  the  middle  of  the  week.  I  wish  you  not  to  write  to 
Dr.  S.  or  anybody  else  respecting  the  little  point  which  remained 
unsettled  when  we  were  at  Andover.  The  matter  was  in  such  a 
state  that  a  full  representation  could  not  be  made  without  seeing 
you.  But  all  this  way  are  of  one  mind,  that  is,  not  to  have  any 
difficulty.  We  are  well,  and  unite  in  love  to  you  and  your  dear 
family. 

With  best  esteem  and  love,  yours, 

L.  WOODS. 

From  Dr.  Church  to  L.  Woods. 

PELHAM,  March  12,  1808. 

DEAR  BROTHEK, — I  hope  all  things  are  progressing  very  favor- 
ably respecting  the  Seminary.  Good  Mr.  Norris  thus  writes  in  a 
letter  of  the  26th:  "I  have  made  an  offering  and  signed  the  Con- 
stitution, and  I  hope  and  trust  with  uprightness  of  soul  and  godly 
sincerity,  as  an  offering  to  my  Saviour,  which  I  hope  He  will  own  and 
bless.  Oh,  may  this  Institution  be  His,  and  owned  and  blessed 
by  Him  for  His  own  glory !  My  dear  friend,  let  us  hope  and  pray, 
that  the  ministers  of  Jesus,  His  dear  church  and  people  may  be 
refreshed  by  the  streams  from  this  great  Institution."  In  the 
margin  he  observes,  "  We  unite  with  Mr.  Abbot  in  the  choice  of 
all  the  Professors."  You  will  perceive  that  he  feels  agreeably. 
I  am  longing  to  have  a  letter  from  you.  May  you  enjoy  the  Di- 
vine direction  and  blessing  in  all  your  concerns.  Our  love  to 
your  dear  consort,  and  other  friends. 

Yours  in  tender  love, 

J.  H.  CHURCH. 

P.  S. — The  enclosed  you  will  convey  to  Dr.  Spring. 


From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBUBYPOBT,  March  28,  1808. 

VERY  BELOVED  SIR, — If  your  ideas  respecting  the  part  which 
Dr.  Spring  is  acting  in  the  present  attitude  of  things,  be  incor- 


APPENDIX.  577 

rect,  they  ought  to  be  set  right.  The  delay  of  the  appointment 
of  Visitors  did  not  originate  from  Dr.  S.  but  from  the  Donors, 
particularly  from  Mr.  Bartlett.  Dr.  S.  has  all  along  consented, 
and  still  consents  to  Dr.  D wight.  Nay  he  more  than  consents.  He 
is  decided  in  preferring  him,  all  things  considered.  He  conversed 
with  Rev.  Mr.  Hopkins,  [of  Salem]  and  finding  his  opinion  was 
in  favor  of  Dr.  Dwight,  mentioned  it  to  Mr.  N.  to  confirm  him.  He 
is  doing  all  that  prudence  dictates  with  Mr.  Bartlett.  But  it 
should  be  remembered  that  Mr.  B.  is  a  man  of  peculiar  independ- 
ence, whom  the  world  cannot  move  out  of  his  own  way, — who  will 
act  for  himself.  There  is  not  the  least  reason  to  doubt,  but  he 
will  agree  to  Dr.  D.  But  it  must  not  be  urged;  and  he  and  his 
associates  must  know,  that  Col.  P.  chooses  not  to  be  considered 
among  the  Visitors.  Again,  care  must  be  taken  that  this  matter 
be  not  ascribed  to  Dr.  S.,  for  he  has  always  felt  the  utmost  deli- 
cacy in  speaking  on  the  subject.  But  Mr.  N.  first,  and  then  the 
other  two  expressed  their  objections,  of  their  own  accord.  They 
are  fixed.  I  believe  there  is  no  possibility  of  moving  them.  'Tis 
best  not  to  try  it.  Col.  P.  had  better  make  it  easy,  by  his  own 
prudence.  You  find  what  the  feelings  of  the  Donors  are  respect- 
ing Dr.  P.  I  wish  he  may  not  know  all,  which  would  hurt  his 
feelings.  Mr.  Norris  would  not  have  united  with  Messrs  B.  and 
B.  in  appointing  him  alone.  The  form  of  the  appointment  is  awk- 
ward and  unconstitutional;  bnt  the  best  must  be  made  of  it.  It 
is  all  to  accommodate  Mr.  N.'s  feelings  and  prevent  difficulties. 
Mr.  Bartlett  feels  that  it  is  now  his  right,  and  he  claims  the  sole 
right,  of  appointing  the  third  Professor.  They  have  no  idea  of 
intruding  upon  Mr.  A.'s  ground,  or  superseding  his  previous  act. 
It  must  be  considered,  and  represented  to  the  Trustees,  as  a  mere 
friendly,  conciliating  act,  designed  to  show  that  these  Donors 
harmonize  with  Mr.  A.  in  the  first  appointments.  The  informality 
of  it  must  be  overlooked.  Now  if  your  meeting  is  called,  and 
Col.  P.  is  not  again  brought  forward,  there  is  not  the  least  degree 
of  difficulty  or  danger.  The  three  Visitors  all  along  proposed, 
will  be  appointed,  before  the  time  of  your  meeting  arrives.  I  will 
pledge  myself  that  it  will  be  done.  I  will  carry  it  to  Andover 
myself,  if  this  be  necessary  to  make  the  communication  seasonable 
and  sure. 

I  have  seen  your  letter  to  Dr.  S.  He  receives  it  well,  but 
knows  you  will  find  some  of  your  apprehensions  groundless.  His 
feelings  toward  you  are  very  affectionate  and  confidential. 

I  have  had  a  gloomy  week  since  I  left  you.  To  see  such  a 
struggle,  when  all  ought  to  be  love  and  harmony,  distresses  my 


578       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

heart,  as  I  know  it  does  yours.  I  am  for  union; — wholly  for  it. 
And  if  any  man  will  put  union  at  hazard,  for  the  sake  of  any  small 
matters,  I  will  not  believe  he  loves  union,  as  you  and  I  do.  I  am 
ready  to  act  any  part  in  these  minor  points,  which  will,  make  for 
peace.  But  if  you  touch  the  coalition,  you  touch  the  apple  of  my 
eye.  I  feel  as  I  did  last  summer  and  fall,  and  as  I  supposed  all 
felt  at  that  time,  that  is,  willing  to  give  up  everything  for  union. 
You  know  I  don't  mean  truth  or  duty.  But  we  must  not  expect 
in  such  a  great  and  complicated  plan,  that  any  of  us  can  have  every- 
thing to  our  mind. 

I  am  anxious  about  Panoplist,  etc.  Write  immediately  after 
receiving  this.  As  soon  as  the  matter  is  fixed  at  Andover, 
I  am  ready  to  go  to  Salem,  and  take  Bro.  Emerson  with  me  to 
Mr.  N.  and  have  a  trial  about  Panoplist.  The  sooner  these  Don- 
ors hear  that  the  affair  of  Col.  P.  is  concluded  according  to  their 
views  the  better.  The  Lord  prevent  evil  at  this  time.  I  know 
that  all  the  three  Donors  are  prepared  for  final  separation,  and 
going  on  with  their  Academy  in  Connecticut  or  somewhere  else, 
if  their  statutes  are  refused.  Therefore  take  care  or  all  is  lost. 
If  there  is  a  breaking  to  pieces  now,  it  will  be  a  thousand  times 
worse  than  if  it  had  been  last  summer,  and  it  will  send  the  church 
to  pieces,  not  one  stone  will  be  left  upon  another. 

P.  S. — Dr.  S.  has  seen  Messrs.  B.  and  B.  Their  decision  is  now 
known.  They  both  agree  to  appoint  Dr.  Dwight  and  Gov.  Strong, 
with  Dr.  S.  They  would  have  preferred  Dr.  Thayer,  but  wish  to 
be  condescending.  But  remember  that  they  are  unalterably  fixed, 
that  no  alteration  shall  be  made  in  their  statutes,  and  no  addition 
be  made  to  their  Board  of  Visitors.  They  wish  to  see  the  Insti- 
tution going  on,  but  will  give  up  no  more.  They  think  they  have 
done  enough,  and  will  rather  withdraw  and  go  on  by  themselves 
than  have  any  more  difficulty,  or  any  alteration,  before  the  seven 
years  experiment. 

Now  I  pray,  sir,  that  it  may  be  known,  that  this  is  no  scare- 
crow, no  imaginary  state  of  things,  but  a  reality.  And  the  conse- 
quences WILL  be  accordingly.  This  letter  is  not  to  be  shown. 
Dr.  S.  will  write  officially  in  the  name  of  the  Donors.  There 
is  infinite  hazard.  Be  awake  and  decided. 

Yours, 

L.  WOODS. 


APPENDIX.  579 

From  Dr.  Spring  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBURYPOKT,  March  28,  1808. 

DEAR  BROTHER, — Tour  ardent  letter  I  have  read.  You  have 
mistaken  the  state  of  things.  The  appointment  of  the  Visitors  has 
rested  with  Mr.  Bartlett  as  I  intimated.  He  and  Mr.  Brown  have 
this  morning  desired  me  to  inform  you,  that  they  accept  the  list, 
which  you  gentlemen  have  made,  viz.,  Gov.  Strong,  Dr.  D wight, 
etc.  They  prefer,  considering  a  number  of  things,  Dr.  Thayer. 
They  are  afraid  that  you  depend  too  much  upon  great  popular 
characters.  Please  to  remark  that  they  expect  no  alteration  in 
the  Board  of  Visitors.  They  will  not  yield  to  the  Board's  consist- 
ing of  eight,  and  you  know  Mr.  Norris  concurs  with  them.  The 
design  to  introduce  Col.  Phillips  into  the  Board,  has  hurt  their 
feelings,  especially  Mr.  Bartlett's.  I  never  saw  Mr.  Bartlett  so 
much  afraid  of  the  union  as  he  is  this  moment,  and  they  told  me 
decidedly  and  unitedly  to  inform  Dr.  Morse  that  there  must  be 
no  alterations.  For  they  are  fixed  and  cannot  consistently  yield 
any  further.  I  give  it  as  my  opinion,  if  you  do  not  accept  us, 
according  to  our  Statutes  relative  to  the  Visitatorial  Board,  the 
union  must  be  given  up.  Mr.  Bartlett  was  bold  in  the  expression, 
that  he  had  rather  double  the  donation,  and  go  on  as  first  intended, 
than  to  be  perplexed  any  farther.  They  will  not  submit  to  any 
alteration.  I  hope  we  shall  all  be  directed  to  walk  in  the  path  of 
wisdom.  I  never  did  fear  the  final  consequences  of  a  solitary 
academy,  nor  do  I  now.  But  I  am  willing  to  be  united;  and  God 
grant  that  the  stock  of  Judah  and  the  stock  of  Joseph  may  now 
be  joined  together  and  remain  identically  and  indissolubly  one 
for  ever  and  ever  and  ever.  Amen. 

Let  me  hear  from  you  soon.  Make  my  respects  to  your  lady 
and  Dr.  Pearson.  From  your  friend  and  brother, 

SAML.  SPRING. 

From  Dr.  Morse  to  Mr.  Farrar. 

CHABLESTOWN,  March  28,  1808. 

DEAR  SIR, — I  wrote  you  this  morning  by  stage,  which  I  hope 
ere  this  you  have  received.  Having  now  an  opportunity  by  Mrs. 
Bartlett,  I  send  you  the  Associate  Donors'  Statutes,  and  the 
nomination  of  Professors,  which  you  and  the  other  gentlemen  may 
wish  to  see.  Pray  write  me  by  Mrs.  B.  It  is  time  to  be  acting. 
Delay  is  dangerous.  Sat  verbum.  I  have  no  time  to  add. 

Truly  yours, 

J.  MORSE. 


580       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBUEY,  March  30,  Wednesday,  1808. 

DEAR  SIR, — I  write  in  great  haste,  as  the  bearer  is  just  ready 
to  go.  I  have  been  to  Andover  since  I  wrote  on  Monday.  Have 
communicated  what  you  have  received  from  me  and  Dr.  Spring; 
and  had  a  long  talk.  Dr.  P.  appears  as  we  wish,  is  glad  to  have 
his  mind  relieved  in  a  good  degree  respecting  Dr.  S.,  says  he 
will  endeavor  to  make  the  affair  of  Col.  P.  as  easy  as  possible,  and 
has  no  doubt  but  the  Statutes  will  be  accepted  in  their  present 
form.  He  will  see  you  soon.  He  advises  me  to  proceed  with  my 
people  without  delay,  which  I  propose  to  do.  Beloved  sir,  be 
watchful  and  prayerful,  prudent  and  resolved,  lest  some  evil 
should  get  in  to  prevent  our  hopes.  What  will  oe  the  conse- 
quence if  the  coalition  should  now  fail?  It  cannot.  What? 
reject  forty  thousand  dollars,  yea,  and  forty  thousand  more,  in 
reversion,  and  plunge  New  England  into  the  dreaded  evils  of  di- 
vision and  strife,  yea,  of  an  endless  war,  and  lose  all  the  blessings 
of  spiritual  peace  and  prosperity,  because  every  iota  is  not  as 
might  be  wished  ?  reject  all,  because  an  unessential  word  is  omitted? 
reject  all,  because  a  letter  is  wanting,  or  the  dot  of  an  i?  Just 
so  it  seems  to  me.  It  cannot,  it  will  not,  be.  The  friends  of 
peace  and  truth  aoid  love  will  now  see  the  Temple  go  up  without 
noise.  Let  everything  be  done  to  remove  unhappy  impressions. 
Dr.  S.  can  be  melted  by  kindness,  and  frankness,  and  piety; — 
but'  cannot  be  subdued  by  the  violence  of  opposition.  The  way 
is  prepared  for  him  and  Dr.  P.  to  return  to  all  their  former  hap- 
piness. I  have  said  all  to  Dr.  P.  that  was  in  my  heart.  He  re- 
ceived your  letter  while  I  was  there  yesterday.  Your  plan  is 
good.  Hoskins  has  doubtless  made  a  handsome  copy.  But  there  is 
no  need  of  a  moment's  delay  on  that  account.  It  can  be  signed, 
and  exchanged  before  your  meeting.  You  are  to  consider  the  Visi- 
tors as  appointed,  and  no  other  addition  or  alteration  to  be  made. 
Your  letter  to  Col.  P.  I  trust  will  remove  every  difficulty. 

As  soon  as  this  affair  is  ended,  I  will  take  the  first  opportunity  to 
talk  with  Mr.  B.  concerning  Professor  of  Ecclesiastical  History.  I 
hope  it  will  come  right.  I  told  Dr.  P.  how  the  appointment  of  Profes- 
sors was  managed — I  did  it  in  a  way  that  pleased  him  and  Esqr.  A. 

Mr.  French  is  very  kind.  I  went  and  saw  the  house,  and  like 
it  pretty  well.  I  cannot  wait  long  without  seeing  you  or  hear- 
ing. Depend  on  it,  Dr.  S.  will  do  well — will  make  no  difficulty 
—will  perhaps  do  more  for  the  Institution  in  connection  with  hia 
men  than  any  of  us.  I  don't  believe  they  have  half  done  yet. 


APPENDIX.  581 


From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Church. 

NEWBUBY,  April  2,  1808. 

MY  VERY  DEAR  BROTHER, — I  received  yours  of  the  12th  inst.  in 
season;  have  been  waiting  for  an  opportunity  to  send  you  good 
news,  which  I  am  now  able  to  do.  The  Statutes  are  signed  by 
the  three  Donors,  and  sent  on;  their  first  Professor,  Dr.  P.,  is  ap- 
pointed, and  their  Visitors,  Dr.  Dwight,  Dr.  Spring,  and  Gov. 
Strong,  with  the  four  Founders,  are  fixed  upon.  Col.  Phillips  was 
talked  of,  but  is  objected  to  because  he  is  a  Trustee.  Dr.  P.  has  no 
doubt  but  the  Statutes  will  be  accepted.  Mr.  Bartlett  has  just 
put  down  $20,000  and  engaged  to  add  $400  a  year  for  the  first 
seven  years.  He  says  he  shall  do  no  more  now.  The  prospect  is 
pleasing.  Since  I  saw  you,  we  have  had  as  great  and  distressing 
a  struggle  as  ever.  I  feared  the  union  must  be  given  up.  But 
God  has  given  a  happy  issue.  I  hope  we  have  been  humbled. 
We  needed  it. 

With  you  and  Mrs.  Church  we  sincerely  condole.  The  Lord 
deals  with  you,  I  have  no  doubt,  as  a  kind  father  with  beloved 
children.  He  has  supported  you  in  many  trials,  and  I  trust  He 
will  never  forsake  you.  We  long  to  hear  of  Mrs.  Church's  re- 
covery to  health,  and  to  see  you  both. 

I  expect  without  delay  to  lay  matters  before  my  church  and 
people.  My  heart  is  ready  to  sink  at  the  thought.  Pray  for  me 
in  this  and  in  all  respects. 

We  expect  the  Institution  will  be  opened  the  17th  of  May, 
and  that  Dr.  Dwight  will  preach.  The  revival  at  New  Haven  in- 
creases. They  have  three  Conferences  a  week  in  College.  Sev- 
enteen of  the  freshman  class  serious,  one  profane  one  awakened. 
At  Litchfield  in  Connecticut  seventy  admitted  in  one  day.  At 
Newark,  under  Mr.  Griffin,  one  hundred  and  two  stood  pro- 
pounded at  once.  Ordination  of  Mr.  Hubbard  in  the'  Parish  be- 
low me  llth  of  May — and  of  Mr.  Huntington,  Boston,  the  same 
day;  Dr.  Dwight  to  preach.  I  write  in  great  haste,  Saturday. 

Yours  truly,  with  united  love  to  Mrs.  Church  and  your  parents, 
and  the  little  daughter. 

LEONARD  WOODS. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBUKY,  April  4,  1808. 

MY  DEAR  SIR, — I  have  received  your  comforting,  animating 
letter  of  the  31st  ult.  It  is  to  me  a  time  of  peculiar  emotion. 


582       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

'Tis  a  most  mingled  scene.  Joy  from  one  quarter,  and  tender 
and  almost  overwhelming  trials  from  another.  But  I  hope  God 
will  give  wisdom  and  strength  according  to  occasion.  To-day 
I  have  seen  Dr.  Spring  and  Mr.  Bartlett.  They  appear  as  we 
should  wish.  The  Donors  don't  expect  to  hear  a  lisp  more  as  to 
Col.  Phillips  being  a  Visitor.  It  would  be  exceedingly  offensive. 
Dr.  S.  thinks  favorably  as  to  uniting  publications.  He  will 
probably  come,  though  he  thinks  it  will  be  best  for  him  to  act 
with  much  circumspection,  as  he  has  a  long  account  to  settle 
with  Hopkinsians  on  the  score  of  union  in  Seminary.  Dr.  Parish 
will  come  D.  Y.  You  may  expect  me.  I  will  bring  the  papers  com- 
municated, and  a  number  from  Law  prepared,  but  cannot  take 
another  survey  this  month.  Friday  I  expect  a  church  meeting. 
I  hope  things  will  go  well. 

We  think  the  number  to  meet  next  week  is  too  large.  But 
perhaps  'tis  best.  The  mode  of  ultimate  operation  which  has 
just  occurred  to  my  thoughts  is  this,  viz.,  after  a  plan  is  well 
understood  by  a  number  sufficient  to  have  influence,  let  one  of 
the  Editors  of  Panoplist,  in  the  name  of  all,  make  proposals  to 
the  Missionary  Society  for  a  united  publication,  which  proposals 
shall  be  advocated  and  supported  by  Dr.  S.,  Dr.  P.,  Mr. 
Worcester,  Mr.  Strong,  etc.  I  shall  not  be  afraid  to  risk  my  in- 
fluence to  make  the  proposals,  with  proper  reasons  to  support 
them,  in  writing  in  the  name  of  the  Editors,  if  it  shall  be  judged 
best — not  otherwise.  I  only  hint  at  things  as  they  rise. 

I  am  in  haste  and  cannot  enlarge.  I  long  to  see  you  and 
enjoy  your  sweet,  instructive,  and  enlivening  conversation.  Accept 
and  make  love.  We  are  all  well. 

Yours  in  the  dearest  bonds, 

LEONARD  WOODS. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Church. 

NEWBTJBY,  April  9,  1808. 

MY  DEAR  BROTHER, — I  received  yours  by  Mr.  S.  yesterday. 
Last  week  I  wrote  you  a  line  in  haste,  which  probably  you  have 
received.  You  need  not  feel  as  you  do  about  my  omitting  to 
write.  I  waited  to  be  able  to  tell  you  what  you  wished  to  hear, — 
from  week  to  week  I  was  hindered  by  the  new  and  unthought  of 
difficulties,  which  kept  our  great  affair  in  suspense.  It  is  now 
closed  as  far  as  relates  to  the  three  Donors.  The  Trustees  have 
their  meeting  May  4th.  It  was  necessary  to  warn  a  special  meeting 
four  weeks.  I  wrote  you  some  particulars  in  my  last.  Yesterday 


APPENDIX.  583 

I  had  a  church  meeting.  As  some  members  are  absent,  for 
various  reasons  we  adjourned  to  next  Tuesday.  Then  I  expect 
the  business  to  be  done.  Probably  we  shall  have  a  parish  meet- 
ing the  Monday  after.  I  expect  no  great  difficulty,  because  I  am 
determined  to  let  my  people  state  the  conditions  of  my  dis- 
mission as  they  please.  Next  Thursday  I  expect  to  be  at  Charles- 
town.  We  are  aiming  to  unite  our  two  publications.  Why  can't 
you  call  on  us  when  you  go  to  Stoneham  ?  The  Lord  be  with 
you  and  Mrs.  Church,  and  grant  you  peculiar  light  and  consola- 
tion. We  hope  Mrs.  Church  is  comfortable  and  will  be  able  to 
visit  us  with  you  before  long.  As  to  your  books,  I  know  not 
where  you  can  get  them  to  the  best  advantage;  I  presume  you 
will  do  well  at  Ethridge.  I  expect  to  send  Pano2)list;  unless  Mr. 
S.  forgets  to  call  for  it  at  Whipple's.  Will  you  both  accept  our 
sincere  and  tender  affection,  and  remember  us  respectfully  to 
your  parents. 

Yours  truly, 

L.  WOODS. 

From  Dr.  Pearson  to  Dr.  Morse. 

ANDOVEB,  April  10,  1808,  Sabbath  eve.  10  o'clock. 

MY  DEAR  SIB, — Have  just  received  yours  of  yesterday.  And 
why  art  thou  cast  down,  O  my  friend;  and  why  art  thou  disquieted 
within  thee  ?  Hope  thou  in  God,  for  thou  wilt  yet  praise  Him. 
All  things  will  be  ordered  in  wisdom  and  terminate  in  good. 
This  is  my  faith,  support  and  comfort.  The  Associates  here  met 
yesterday  for  consultation  at  Mr.  A.'s,  who  is  deeply  affected  and 

firmly  fixed.  The  result  is  that  Mr.  F r  and  myself  are  to 

set  off  to-morrow  morning  for  Newburyport,  to  negotiate  some 
new  arrangement  of  the  united  Board,  on  the  idea  of  leaving  out 
Col.  P.  We  shall  submit  two  propositions  to  the  Donors;  viz., 
that  from  the  first  the  Board  consist  of  the  three  permanent 
Visitors  only;  but  if  this  proposition,  which  is  certainly  equal,  be 
not  accepted,  then  that  Col.  P.  and  his  mother  be  represented 
at  the  Board,  during  his  life,  by  a  Visitor  of  their  appointment. 
We  hope  to  address  them  in  the  meekness  of  wisdom,  and  that 
we  shall  have  your  prayers  for  our  success. 

With  respect  to  the  other  source  of  your  uneasiness,  be 
quieted,  till  I  see  you.  I  shall  have  some  things  farther  to 
communicate,  though  in  the  most  sacred  confidence,  which  I 
hope  will  relieve  you  on  this  head.  In  meantime  accept  my 
warmest  assurances  of  unalterable  friendship,  and  that  noth- 


584       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

ing  can  ever  afflict  or  grieve  you,  without  producing,  when 
known,  a  correspondent  effect  in  the  bosom  of  your  sincere 
and  affectionate 

E.  PEAKSON. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr  Morse. 

NEWBUET,  April  11,  1808. 

VERY  DEAR  SIR, — Dr.  Spring  is  here,  with  whom  I  have  had 
free  and  serious  talk  on  all  our  matters.  I  give  you  our  views  in 
short.  We  both  cordially  harmonize  in  the  design  of  uniting 
the  publications;  and  wish  it  to  be  brought  forward  in  the  most 
favorable  time  and  manner,  and  in  circumstances  which  shall 
be  most  advantageous  to  the  reputation  and  usefulness  of  the 
Institution.  But  in  the  present  state  of  things  we  have  some 
serious  apprehensions.  The  Missionary  Society  in  general  will 
be  in  a  state  of  alarm  and  fear  as  to  the  Institution,  and  cannot 
be  at  once  satisfied  that  things  are  safe  there.  To  bring  forward 
the  design  of  uniting  publications  now,  and  urge  it,  would  be 
attended  with  peculiar  danger.  It  is  thought  best  to  postpone 
this  business  till  the  Institution  is  settled  and  in  operation,  lest 
in  the  midst  of  the  struggle,  the  Institution  should  lose  influence 
and  suffer  in  point  of  utility.  There  is,  besides,  much  apprehen- 
sion remaining,  which  must  be  removed,  respecting  the  General 
Association.  These  three  objects  cannot  be  crowded  together, 
without  danger  of  injuring  them  all.  Dr.  Spring  thinks  it  will  be 
most  prudent,  not  to  press  the  design  respecting  the  publications 
at  this  crisis;  that  it  is  not  the  propitious  time;  that  it  will  be  bet- 
ter to  let  the  Missionary  Society  feel  their  need  of  the  joint  influence, 
and  be  prepared  to  make  the.  proposal  themselves.  Besides  we 
fear  the  tendency  of  the  meeting.  It  may  make  too  much  noise. 
Some  may,  and  probably  will  be  offended  that  they  were  not  in- 
vited. It  can't  be  private.  It  may  look  like  a  plot;  and  great  sus- 
picion, and  very  perverse  and  hurtful  constructions  may  follow. 
We  therefore  propose  to  your  consideration,  the  expedient, — of 
your  sending  immediately  to  Mr.  Strong  to  prevent  his  coming, 
informing  him  that  the  meeting  is  postponed,  till  an  oppor- 
tunity shall  be  had  for  conversation  just  before  Election;  and 
that  you  likewise  inform  Dr.  H.  and  Mr.  W.  Dr.  S.  could  not 
come  as  it  is  his  lecture,  etc.  I  mean  to  be  at  Charlestown  myself 
at  the  time  appointed,  whatever  be  your  judgment  and  measures 
as  to  the  subject  before  us.  I  shall  go  through  Andover,  and  see 
Dr.  P.,  etc. 


APPENDIX.  585 

Dr.  Emmons,  Mr.  Niles,  and  Dr.  Austin  will  be  in  the  way  of 
the  uniting  plan  of  publication,  with  all  vigor,  in  the  present  circum- 
stances. A  premature  attempt  proving  unsuccessful,  may  pre- 
vent a  union,  which  is  very  important  to  both  sides,  and  which 
would  undoubtedly  come  in  due  time,  if  not  excluded  by  un- 
seasonable alarm.  You  know  Mr.  Norris's  feelings.  He  will  be 
present  at  next  meeting  of  Missionary  Society,  and  will  advocate 
the  favorite  publication,  with  all  the  eloquence  of  a  Senator,  and 
all  the  weight  of  one  who  has  done  much  and  will  do  much  for 
the  Missionary  fund.  He  can  have  what  influence  he  pleases  in 
the  Society. 

If  you  think  it  best  to  have  the  meeting,  we  think  it  will  be 
safest  not  to  urge  the  point  vigorously,  but  to  let  it  fall  into  the 
hands  of  others.  You  are  acquainted  with  the  ideas,  very  unjust 
and  cruel,  which  many  of  the  Missionary  Society  have  had  of  you. 
This  may  be  a  reason  against  a  vigorous  effort  at  this  time.  Dr. 
Pearson  must  save  ah1  his  influence  as  sacred  to  the  Seminary. 
So  must  I,  what  I  have.  It  is  a  suspicious  time.  If  we  let  folks 
alone  a  few  months,  they  will  be  quiet.  If  we  attempt  to  pull 
them  they  will  go  further  off.  In  great  haste,  and  in  greater 
love  and  esteem, 

L.  WOODS. 

From  Dr.  Spring  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBUETPOKT,  April  13,  1808. 

DEAR  BROTHER, — I  am  sorry,  as  far  as  union  is  the  desirable  ob- 
ject, that  the  Andover  gentlemen  have  made  another  effort  to  in- 
crease the  Board  of  Visitors.  You  may  depend  upon  it,  that  it 
makes  uneasiness  and  creates  fear.  Mr.  Bartlett  made  his  second 
donation  on  the  principle  that  the  Associates  should  have  the  con- 
trol of  two  Professorships.  But  even  this  was  in  a  measure  re- 
moved by  the  joint  Board  which  he  has  accepted.  My  Associates 
feel  and  know  that  Gov.  Strong  and  Dr.  Dwight  in  common  with 
your  trust  will  have  as  much  influence  over  them  as  they  can  de- 
sire. Esqr.  Abbot  has  no  reason  to  fear,  and  it  is  thought  he 
would  not,  aside  from  other  influence.  So  Mr.  Brown  feels,  etc. 
If  the  matter  be  pushed,  the  joint  Board  will  be  given  up,  if  not 
the  union.  Excuse  my  openness.  You  are  a  friend  to  the 
union,  but  not  to  anything  which  is  monopoly  in  its  consequences. 
From  your  friend  and  brother, 

S.  SPRING. 


586       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBTJBY,  Saturday,  April  16,  1808. 

DEAR  SIR, — Arrived  last  night.  I  saw  Mr.  Norris.  He  shows 
an  excellent  spirit.  There  will  be  no  difficulty.  He  has  proposed 
to  Messrs.  B.  and  B.  that  the  Founders  meet  next  Thursday  or 
Friday  at  Mr.  Abbot's.  He  says  his  only  objection  to  having  Mr. 
Phillips  of  the  Board  was  his  being  a  Trustee.  His  heart  is 
all  in  the  union ;  and  he  is  pleased  with  the  plan  of  publication. 
If  the  Founders  can  be  together,  there  will  be  no  difficulty. 
This  interview  has  been  my  favorite  object.  I  calculate  much 
upon  it. 

Messrs.  B.  and  B.  are  to  give  Mr.  N.  word  whether  they  will 
meet  him  at  A.  and  which  of  the  two  days  above  mentioned. 

In  love,  yours, 

L.  WOODS. 

P.  S. — I  am  not  sure  whether  it  will  be  best  to  send  word  to 
Andover;  if  you  do,  it  must  be  what  Mr.  N.  has  proposed.  But  it 
may  not  take  place.  I  will  send  word  to  you,  or  to  Andover,  as 
soon  as  I  know  the  determination. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBUBY,  April  20,  1808. 

DEAR  SIR, — To-morrow  the  three  Donors  go  to  Andover  ac- 
cording to  proposal.  I  doubt  not  they  will  do  well.  Next  Mon- 
day we  have  our  council.  Dr.  Dana,  by  my  request,  is  added. 
If  you  could  take  the  stage  next  Wednesday  morning  early  and 
come  to  Newburyport,  you  would  have  the  pleasure  of  attending 
Mr.  Mittimore's  ordination,  and  of  hearing  Dr.  Buckminster 
preach.  You  will  likewise  give  us  all  the  pleasure  of  seeing 
you.  And  if  anything  remains  to  be  done  respecting  this  last 
difficulty  at  Andover,  or  respecting  the  signing  the  last  and 
completed  copy  of  the  Statutes,  we  will  attend  to  it  together. 
I  will  lay  out  to  spend  the  night  with  you  at  Newburyport. 
I  wish  very  much  to  see  you  on  various  accounts.  If  you  come, 
bring  the  artillery  election  sermons,  the  manuscript  you  men- 
tioned, and  anything  you  wish  for  Panoplist.  I  think  our  plan 
of  union  in  publication  will  succeed.  Has  Gov.  Strong  been  con- 
sulted? Will  Dr.  Dwight  be  in  readiness?  Let  me  have  a  line 
immediately.  The  ordination  will  not  be  before  afternoon.  The 
council  doesn't  meet  till  eleven.  'Tis  the  27th  inst.  Come  if  you 


APPENDIX.  587 

can,  you  can  return  next  day,  dining  at  Salem.     The  ride  will  do 
you  good.     In  great  love, 

Yours, 

L.  WOODS. 

P.  $.— Come  directly  to  Esqr.  Little's,  in  High  Street,  and  dine 
with  the  Council.  I  suppose  the  plan  is,  to  dine  early,  and  or- 
dain afterward,  or  to  have  the  exercises  begin  about  noon,  and 
dine  late.  Their  calling  us  at  eleven  o'clock  seems  designed  to 
prevent  much  examination. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBURY,  Saturday,  April  23,  1808. 

VERY  BELOVED  SIR, — I  most  heartily  rejoice  with  you,  and  I 
know  you  will  rejoice  with  me,  in  the  happy  interview,  which  the 
Founders  have  had  at  Andover.  They  were  all  there.  Mr. 
Abbot's  mind  is  wholly  relieved,  and  all  are  satisfied  with  the 
conversation.  The  last  arrangement  remains  as  it  was.1  I  am 
glad  the  Founders  have  seen  each  other,  and  commenced  an  ac- 
quaintance, which  will  be  both  pleasant  and  profitable,  as  I  hope, 
for  many  years.  Their  interview  was  my  favorite  object.  I  did 
more  than  was  strictly  decorous,  to  bring  it  about.  But  I  was 
willing  to  run  some  risk  for  that  which  I  expected  would  be  so 
beneficial.  All,  then,  is  well  at  Andover. 

It  is  probable  you  received  my  letter  dated  about  the  20th. 
But  lest  it  should  be  otherwise,  I  will  repeat  the  substance  of  it. 
'Tis  Mr.  Mittimore's  ordination  next  Wednesday.  The  council 
meet  at  eleven.  If  you  come  on  in  the  morning  stage,  you  may 
be  in  season.  You  can  hear  Dr.  Buckminster  preach;  you  can  see 
Newburyport  Donors;  we  will  spend  the  night  together,  perhaps 
at  Mr.  Dana's;  }^ou  will  wish  to  see  him  before  your  meeting,  and 
I  will  do  what  I  can  to  make  all  easy.  I  called  there  Wednesday 
but  he  was  absent.  Mrs.  D.  and  her  sister  were  exceedingly  pleas- 
ant. You  can  bring  anything  you  wish  me  to  see  for  the  Pano- 
plist;  we  can  talk  further  about  union  in  the  publications;  you 
can  see  Dr.  Parish,  and  on  your  return  Mr.  Norris  and  Mr.  Wor- 
cester. All  can  be  done  in  two  days. 

Messrs.  B.  and  B.   called  here  going  and  returning.     They 
both  say,  they  have  been  greatly  rewarded  for  going. 
Yours  with  unfailing  love  and  confidence, 

L.  WOODS. 

1  The  meaning  was  that  the  Statutes  of  the  Associate  Founders  respecting 
the  Board  of  Visitors  remain  as  the  Donors  had  signed  them. 


588       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Church. 

NEWBUBY,  April  25,  1808. 

MY  DEAR  BROTHER, — I  have  just  received  yours  of  the  16th 
inst,  for  which  I  thank  you.  Oh  that  you  had  better  reason  for 
your  affection  and  confidence!  As  to  the  church  meeting,  the 
church  in  general  acted  as  I  wished.  They  took  up  the  matter  in 
a  serious,  tender,  Christian  manner,  and  voted  their  consent  that 
I  should  be  dismissed  if  a  council  should  judge  it  expedient. 
The  parish  united  with  the  church  in  calling  a  council.  Our  As- 
sociation, with  Rev.  Mr.  Allen,  constituted  the  council,  who  met 
to-day  at  ten  o'clock,  and  rose  at  four.  The  church  and  parish 
committees  presented  a  handsome  written  remonstrance  against 
my  dismission.  All  the  doings  of  the  council  were  unanimous. 
Almost  all  were  present.  I  felt  I  was  acting  for  my  own  Christian 
and  ministerial  character,  for  the  Institution  and  for  Zion.  To- 
morrow we  have  a  church  and  parish  meeting  to  finish  the  busi- 
ness. I  apprehend  no  difficulty. 

Everything  is  in  the  most  promising  state  respecting  the 
union.  A  fortnight  ago  a  new  difficulty  arose  which  made  me 
trouble.  It  was  my  favorite  object  to  get  the  Founders  together, 
and  let  them  settle  it  themselves.  I  went  to  see  them  all.  They 
met  last  Thursday  at  Andover,  had  a  most  happy  interview,  and 
settled  the  question  which  appeared  so  difficult  and  alarming  to 
the  satisfaction  of  all.  It  is  now  as  we  wish  it.  If  the  Founders 
had  been  acquainted  earlier,  it  might  have  prevented  much 
trouble.  I  expect  to  send  my  answer  to  the  Trustees,  to  be  read 
at  their  next  meeting,  after  the  business  of  union  is  completed  and 
established. 

Mr.  Huntington's  ordination  in  Boston  is  to  be  May  18th.  It 
has  been  thought  probable  that  the  time  of  inauguration  will  be 
May  17th  or  19fch.  This  will  be  determined  May  4th.  The  time 
may  be  put  off  till  after  election — but  I  rather  think  it  will  not. 
'Tis  my  design  however  to  be  at  the  ordination  in  Boston.  Shall 
be  very  glad  to  meet  you  there.  Hope  you  will  favor  us  with  your 
presence  and  the  help  of  your  friendship  and  prayers,  at  inaugu- 
ration. Oh,  my  brother,  what  a  scene  is  before  me !  How  much 
do  I  need  the  Spirit  of  God !  I  cannot  describe  so  well  as  you 
can  conceive  the  various  affecting  circumstances  of  the  present 
time.  Oh,  my  dear  church  and  people;  how  can  I  give  them  up  ? 
May  God  in  mercy  keep  them !  Oh,  the  importance  of  the  Semi- 
nary, and  the  responsibility  of  my  office  in  it !  I  tremble.  My 
poor,  low,  wretched  heart  is  not  fitted  for  the  place.  But  I  know 


APPENDIX.  589 

God  can  fit  me,  as  I  trust  He  has  called  me  to  it.  I  hope  He  will 
be  with  me  and  give  me  grace.  If  He  don't  all  is  lost,  as  far  as  I 
am  concerned. 

We  rejoice  in  Mrs.  Church's  restoration  to  health.  Present  to 
her  and  accept  yourself  our  most  affectionate  regards,  and  remem- 
ber me  dutifully  to  your  parents. 

Probably  you  have  heard  of  the  catastrophe  to  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Dutch  and  child.  He  was  confined  a  fortnight  at  my  house  and 

Mrs.  D almost  as  long  at  Deacon  Osgood's  in  consequence  of 

wounds  they  received  in  the  most  awful  and  frightful  situation 
with  their  horse  and  chaise.  He  went  home  Saturday.  If  you 
could  get  Mr.  Hardy  to  supply  you,  and  you  preach  for  him  next 
Sabbath,  it  would  be  a  great  favor. 

Yours  in  brotherly  love, 

L.  WOODS. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBUBT,  April  29,  1808. 

MOST  BELOVED  SIR, — I  retain  the  pleasing  impression  of  my 
last  interview  with  you,  and  with  other  friends  to  this  time.  But 
no  friend  did  I  see  at  the  ordination  who  has  got  my  whole  heart 
like  you.  Oh,  how  sweet  where  there  is  entire  confidence;  an 
entire  idem  velle  and  idem  nolle,  where  we  may  indeed  think 
loud,  and  yet  have  nobody  hear  but  another  self.  My  family  is 
pretty  well.  Mrs.  Woods  needs  a  journey. 

Br.  Church  and  Br.  Allen  were  with  me  yesterday;  their  hearts 
are  with  us;  and  good  hearts  they  have.  You  told  me  nothing 
you  had  done  about  General  Association.  I  don't  wish  you  to 
trouble  yourself  to  tell  me,  only  I  hope  it  will  be  done  in  season. 

In  a  letter  I  have  received  from  Mr.  Murdock,  Princeton,  he 
says,  referring  to  the  Institution,  "  Now  a  foundation  is  laying  for 
our  country's  being  enriched  with  a  learned,  pious,  and  orthodox 
ministry.  Blessed  be  the  Lord  who  hath  done  such  great  things 
for  us." 

I  send  a  short  letter  to  my  dear  father  Abbot.  The  answer 
to  the  Trustees  you  will  enclose  in  it,  unsealed.  I  wish  him  to 
have  the  care  of  it.  You  will  deliver  it  when  you  first  get  to 
Andover.  I  trust  Dr.  P.  will  give  his  answer  at  the  same  meeting. 

Adieu.  With  our  best  regards  to  Mrs.  Morse  and  to  all  your 
dear  household,  I  subscribe,  belpved  Sir, 

Your  sincere  friend  and  humble  servant, 

L.  WOODS. 


590      HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBTJKT,  May  2,  1808. 

BELOVED  SIR, — I  hope  the  wisdom  from  above  will  be  given  to 
you  and  all  -the  Trustees.  A  difficulty  and  delay  now  would  be 
fatal.  I  have  not  received  anything  from  you  since  I  saw  you. 
You  must  send  every  particular  respecting  your  doings  by  Mr. 
D . 

I  send  Pastor.  'Tis  serious  enough,  if  that  will  answer.  I 
want  to  know  how  Br.  Worcester  has  succeeded,  and  whose 
pulse  he  has  felt.  What  says  Dr.  Holmes  ?  It  seems  to  me  that 
his  ideas  are  apt  to  come  too  thick.  He  has,  at  least,  some  diffi- 
culty in  converting  his  thoughts  into  words.  I  mention  it  as  an 
infelicity,  not  as  detracting  from  the  real  goodness  of  his  character. 

I  am  affected  and  melted,  as  I  visit  and  converse  with  my 
people.  My  heart  knows  not  how  to  leave  them.  One  very 
amiable  woman  lately  sent  for  me,  who  appears  to  have  had  a  re- 
cent acquaintance  with  religion,  and  wishes  to  join  the  church 
while  I  am  here.  Others  appear  very  seriously  impressed.  May 
the  mercy  of  God  visit  them.  May  the  great  Shepherd  keep 
them.  With  love  and  esteem  to  you  and  yours,  I  am,  beloved  Sir, 

Your  friend  and  servant, 

L.  WOODS. 

P.  8. — Query.  Will  it  not  be  best  for  you  to  propose  a  suit- 
able notification  of  the  inauguration  day,  to  be  published  in  news- 
papers? It  will  save  trouble  in  writing;  it  will  probably  prevent 
mis-statements  and  errors.  I  believe  it  will  be  judged  decorous 
by  all.  As  many  particulars  may  be  introduced  as  you  judge 
best.  Perhaps  it  will  be  best  to  direct  the  attention  of  the  public 
to  the  Panoplist  for  particular  information  as  to  the  Institution. 
Something  must  be  published  to  inform  and  satisfy  the  public. 

From  Dr.  Morse  to  L.  Woods. 

ANDOVER,  May  10,  1808. 

VERY  DEAR  BROTHER, — I  received  yours  of  Saturday  by  Mr. 
Dana.  Hope  you  received  mine  of  the  1st  inst,  which  you  do  not 
in  your  letter  mention.  All  but  the  four  gentlemen  from  Boston 
are  here,  whose  absence  all  things  considered  is  favorable.  They 
quietly  give  us  the  ground.  We  have  had  a  pleasant  meeting  from 
four  o'clock  to  ten  yesterday,  and  gone  through  the  discussion. 
The  great  question  of  acceptance  is  to  be  taken  between  eight  and 


APPENDIX.  591 

nine  o'clock  this  morning.  We  hope  for  a  unanimous  vote.  I  will 
inform  you  before  the  close  of  this  letter.  Dr.  P.  will  go  on  with 
Mr.  D.  to  Byfield.  I  shall  try  to  persuade  him  to  see  you  and 
give  you  the  details  and  make  arrangements.  I  shall  leave  this 
letter  unclosed  till  after  our  meeting — and  add  such  information 
as  shall  be  important  to  you.  If  Dr.  P.  goes,  shall  leave  him  to 
inform  you. 

Mr.  Hyde  and  his  wife  spent  last  Thursday  night  till  ten  o'clock 
next  day  at  our  house.  We  had  a  charming  time.  He  is  a  good 
man — is  appointed  with  Mr.  Catlin  a  delegate  to  General  Asso- 
ciation. He  is  highly  pleased  with  our  creed,  and  wishes  it  may 
be  the  creed  of  General  Association.1  He  likes  the  plan  of  union 
in  Panoplist  and  Magazine. 

10  o'cfocfc,  A.  M. 

The  important  question  has  been  taken.  Seven  affirma- 
tives. One  chose  not  to  act  pro  or  con.  All  well.  Dr.  P.  will 
see  you  before  he  returns  from  Newburyport.  He  will  not  be 
ready  for  his  installment  at  present.  He  doubts  whether  he  shall 
accept.  Nothing  will  be  done  as  to  inauguration  at  present. 
Dr.  P.  will  explain  all.  Esqr.  A.  will  support  you.  Your  salary 
will  commence  at  the  proper  time.  I  haven't  time  to  add. 
Yours  truly  and  faithfully, 

J.  MOESE. 

P.  S. — Mrs.  M.  is  with  me  and  sends  with  me  love  to  you  and 
Mrs.  W. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBUBT,  May  12,  1808. 

MY  MOST  BELOVED  FRIEND, — I  received  yours  of  the  1st  inst. 
and  of  the  10th.  I  trusted  that  God  would  give  such  an  issue. 
How  precious  is  this  great  good,  for  which  we  have  long  labored, 
and  for  which  we  have  suffered  much  anxiety  and  distress.  To 
think  what  was  the  state  of  things,  when  we  first  conversed  in  my 
study,  and  what  God  has  carried  us  through  and  to  what  He  has 
brought  us,  is  very  interesting  and  affecting.  May  His  goodness 
be  most  thankfully  and  devoutly  acknowledged.  Oh  that  our 

friend  Mr. could  see  what  we  do  of  the  wisdom  and  love  of 

God  in  this  affair !  Oh  that  his  heart  could  be  enlarged  and  set  at 
liberty!  He  is  acting  against  God's  cause  and  kingdom,  I  am 
clear — though  I  ope  he  does  it  ignorantly.  I  can  do  as  well 
again  with  his  father,  as  with  him. 

1  The  General  Association  adopted  the  Shorter  Catechism  as  their  basis. 


592       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

The  Boston  gentlemen  acted  consistently.  I  wish  they  woul 3 
go  a  step  further.  But  Heaven  will  direct.  I  am  glad  inaugura- 
tion is  put  off.  We  could  not  have  been  ready  next  week  without 
hurry.  But  my  expectation  led  me  to  fix  a  time  for  my  dismission 
to  take  place  different  from  what  I  should  have  done  if  I  had 
known  the  present  course  of  things.  Your  suggestion  about  my 
salary  beginning  at  the  proper  time  shows  your  kind  afcd  parental 
attention.  Of  this  I  most  gratefully  acknowledge  that  I  have 
abundant  and  affecting  proof.  Oh  that  I  may  have  opportunity 
to  express  my  gratitude  by  some  real  service  to  you ! 

I  should  write  several  sheets,  did  I  not  hope  to  see  you  next 
week.  I  mean,  if  Providence  permit,  to  spend  Monday  night 
with  Mrs.  Woods  at  Andover,  and  to  go  to  Charlestown  Tuesday, 
Dr.  Pearson  has  not  been  here.  I  hope  to  see  him  before  his  re- 
turn, and  to  be  animated  by  information  and  counsel  from  him. 
If  he  don't  accept,  I  must  resign,  or  rather  withdraw  my  accept- 
ance. 

We  are  in  health,  and  unite  in  most  affectionate  regards  to 
you  and  Mrs.  M.,  with  all  the  dear  family. 

I  hope,  beloved  sir,  ever  to  have  the  honor  and  happiness  to 
subscribe  myself 

Your  sincere  friend  and  obliged,  grateful,  and  obedient  servant, 

L.  WOODS. 

May  4,  1808.  The  Founders  of  the  Seminary,  according  to 
their  reserved  right,  communicated  their  Additional  Statutes,  to 
be  taken  as  part  of  the  Constitution  of  the  Seminary,  said  Addi- 
tional Statutes  being  then  received  by  the  Trustees  as  the  Found- 
ers proposed. 

The  same  day  the  Associate  Statutes  were  communicated. 
Whereupon,  May  10, 

Voted,  That  this  Board  deeply  impressed  with  the  magnitude 
of  the  object  of  the  donations  presented,  and  with  the  goodness 
of  G-od  in  putting  it  into  the  hearts  of  his  servants,  the  Associate 
Founders,  to  give  so  liberally  to  the  offerings  of  the  Lord,  do 
cheerfully  accept  the  same  for  the  purposes,  and  upon  the  terms 
and  conditions,  expressed  in  the  same  Instrument;  and,  that  we 
do  covenant  and  engage  faithfully  to  execute  the  sacred  trust  re- 
posed in  us,  agreeably  to  the  said  Statutes ;  and  that  we  will  cor- 
dially and  actively  co-operate  with  the  said  Founders  in  the  pro- 
motion of  an  object,  so  intimately  connected  with  the  glory  of 
God,  and  inconceivably  momentous  to  the  present  and  future 
generations  of  men,  and  in  relation  both  to  time  and  eternity. 


APPENDIX.  593 

From  Dr.  Pearson  to  Dr.  Morse. 

ANDOVER,  May  13,  1808. 

DEAR  SIR,— The  enclosed  notice  of  Dr.  Dwight's  appointment 
you  will  please  on  receipt  to  give  him.  If  arguments  be  neces- 
sary to  induce  his  acceptance  or  attendance,  you  will  add  and 
urge  them.  Shall  expect  to  welcome  you  both  here,  early  on 
Tuesday  if  not  the  preceding  evening.  It  may  be  very  beneficial 
to  have  previous  conversation  on  the  subject  of  the  Institution, 
and  the  business  of  the  meeting.  Gov.  Strong  I  presume  will  be 
chosen  President,  and  Dr.  Day,  Secretary.  Such  an  arrangement 
will  give  the  open  field  of  eloquence  and  influence  to  Dr.  Dwight. 
What  think  you  of  a  welcome  address  to  the  Donors  and  Visitors? 
Let  me  know  by  a  line  Monday  morning.  I  returned  from  By- 
field  on  Wednesday  evening — could  not  see  Mr.  Woods  at  New- 
bury,  but  through  Dr.  Parish  requested  to  see  him  here.  Weather 
has  probably  prevented.  Mr.  Abbot  sent  an  express  with  the 
official  notice  to  the  Donors  at  Newburyport,  and  by  him  a  verbal 
request  to  Mr.  Woods  to  be  here  next  Tuesday.  Col.  Phillips,  in 
the  name  of  his  mother,  has  sent  written  invitations  to  the  three 
Donors  and  Dr.  Spring  (who  by  the  way  had  not  returned  when 
I  was  at  Byfield).  I  have  also  written  Mr.  Norris  on  the  subject 
of  acceptance  of  the  Statutes.  Dr.  Dwight  must  not  fail  to  come 
with  you,  and  may  God  be  present  with  his  subjects. 

Yours, 

E.  PEARSON. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBTJRY,  May  31,  1808. 

MY  BELOVED  SIR, — I  am  busy  in  preparing  for  artillery  day. 
My  time  is  too  short,  but  I  hope  to  get  through  decently.  I  may, 
and  I  may  not,  spend  Sabbath  with  you.  You  will  not  depend, 
though  'tis  most  likely  I  shall.  If  so,  I  will  preach  half  day  if 
necessary.  I  think  of  postponing  my  journey  to  New  Haven  till 
the  hurry  of  business  is  over.  I  shall  probably  remove  to  An- 
dover  within  three  or  four  weeks.  I  must  haste  to  bid  you 
adieu,  wishing  health  and  prosperity  to  your  family. 

L.  WOODS. 

From  Dr.  Spring  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBUBYPORT,  June  10,  1808. 

DEAR  BROTHER, — Our  Institution  places  us  on  high  ground. 
What  an  advocate  either  directly  or  indirectly  must  be  evangelical 
truth.  Sat  verbum. 


591       HISTORY  OF  ANDOVER   THEOLOGICAL   SEMINARY. 

I  have  read  the  Dissertation  on  the  Soiislrip  of  Christ.     It  is 

no  more  nor  less  than  is  to  be  expected  from  a  disciple  of  N s. 

The  author  I  suppose  resides  on  the  high  waters  of  Mt.  and 

means  to  construct  an  ark  to  descend  the  river  and  vend  his  novel 
commodities.  He  appears  to  feel  himself  quite  adequate  to  the 
business  of  correcting  the  Fathers  of  the  church.  I  hope  his  con- 
fidence will  not  annihilate  his  modesty.  For  he  aims  to  show  that 
first  always. 

If  you  will  review  his  ninth  page  you  will  find  in  connection 
with  the  whole  dissertation,  that  except  the  humanity  of  Christ,  he 
ever  was  and  ever  will  be  destitute  of  any  personal  existence 
which  authorizes  the  endearing,  incomprehensible  relation  sub- 
sisting between  him  and  God  to  be  denominated  by  the  word  Son 
or  even  by  the  word  Fellow  as  expressed  Zechariah  xiii.  7. 

"We  need  not  feel  incumbered  with  the  doctrine  of  eternal  gen- 
eration because  God  is  styled  the  Father  and  Christ  the 
Son  of  God,  any  more  than  with  the  eternal  fellowship  of  the 
Trinity.  The  endearing  words  Father  and  Son  are  used  to  ex- 
press the  sublime,  eternal  relation  between  the  first  two  persons 
of  the  Godhead,  because,  as  I  conceive,  no  better  words  could  be 
adopted.  The  relation  is  the  most  sublime  and  endearing. 

The  author  modestly  says,  page  niutn:  "Those  worthy  authors 
permit  it  to  be  suggested,  will  probably  perceive  that  their  authorities  are 
adapted  to  prove  either  the  divinity  of  Christ,  about  which  they  have  no 
dispute  with  their  brethren,  and  which  is  remote  from  the  subject,  or 
that  Christ  is  the  eternal  Son  of  God."  Here  my  faith  staggers  re- 
lative to  his  system.  For  how  can  any  man  however  ingenious 
establish  the  divinity  of  Christ,  except  upon  Sabellian  ground,  if 
all  the  texts  and  passages  which  treat  of  his  Sonship  and  God's 
Fatherhood  be  impertinent  ? 

I  may  be  wrong,  but  I  fear  that  the  author  of  the  dissertation  is 
a  man  of  too  rational  a  head  to  believe  that  there  are  three  dis- 
tinct, co-equal,  and  co-existent  persons  in  the  Godhead. 

With  due  consideration,  I  am  yours, 

S.  S. 

P.  S. — Inter  nos.  I  have  used  freedom.  I  really  believe 
the  scheme  is  Sabellianism  at  bottom.  The  author  is  too  mathe- 
matical to  believe  three  distinct  pieces  of  gold  make  but  one  sum 
of  money,  if  I  mistake  him  not.  But  what  Trinity  is  there  in 
three  offices  to  one  person  ? 


APPENDIX.  595 

From  Dr.  Morse  to  Dr.  Dwight. 

CHARLESTOWN,  July  7,  1808. 

DEAR  SIR, — You  have  probably  heard  that  Mr.  Griffin  has 
been  appointed  Bartlett  Professor  of  Pulpit  Eloquence  in  our 
Theological  Seminary.  He  has  preached  in  Boston  and  here  with 
high  acceptance,  as  has  Mr.  Stuart  from  New  Haven.  They 
will  inform  you  how  things  are  proceeding  here.  I  shall  not  add 
on  these  subjects.  We  have  hope  that  Mr.  G-.  will  accept  his 
appointment.  We  think  he  is  called  by  Providence.  We  wish 
your  influence  in  our  favor  with  him.  A  great  sphere  of  useful- 
ness opens  for  him  here.  I  am  requested  particularly  by  Dr. 
Pearson  and  others,  to  write  you  to  use  your  interest  with  G-ov. 
Strong  to  accept  his  appointment  as  Visitor  of  our  Institution.  It 
is  of  immense  importance  to  us  that  he  accept  it,  if  it  be  but  for 
a  short  season,  till  the  Institution  shall  get  organized  and  officered. 
We  wish  you  to  write  him  on  this  subject.  We  know  your  influ- 
ence with  him.  You  may  at  once  perceive  in  how  many  ways  his 
acceptance  will  benefit  us,  by  securing  the  confidence  of  many 
who  are  now  in  a  state  of  doubt  as  to  the  complexion  of  the 
Institution. 

I  hope  my  sons  are  doing  well;  you  know  how  we  feel  concern- 
ing them.  We  wish  you  to  give  them  as  often  as  you  can  your 
parental  advice, — they  need  it,  and  I  trust  will  highly  value  it.  I 
wish  to  hear  from  Mr.  Day  concerning  them.  Shall  write  him  if 
I  can  possibly  get  time.  I  hope  he  will  yet  come  to  Andover  this 
fall.  Things  look  more  favorable  than  when  I  last  wrote.  Dr. 
Pearson  and  myself  have  given  a  verbal  message  to  him,  through 
Mr.  Stuart,  which  we  hope  will  be  satisfactory  to  Mr.  Day  should 
I  not  have  time  to  write  him.  I  hope  to  be  at  Commencement. 
We  expect  you  and  Mrs.  D.  will  come  on  immediately  after.  Mrs. 
M.  unites  in  kind  regards  to  Mrs.  D.  and  your  sons  with,  dear  sir, 

Your  friend  and  brother, 

J.  MORSE. 

From  Dr.  Spring  to  Dr.  Monte. 

NEWBTTRYPOKT,  July  15,  1808. 

DEAR  BROTHER, — Alas !  Alas !  What  a  mammoth  of  an  orator 
have  we  had  along.  Shall  we  after  all  admit  him,  considering  the 
present  state  of  our  funds?  We  shall  have  work  enough  to 
print  his  paragraphs.  I  have  had  thoughts  of  holding  my  own  in 
the  pulpit,  but  if  we  do  not  confine  the  monster  within  the  firm 


596       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

walls  of  the  Institution,  all  will  be  up  witli  poor  me.  They  even 
say  that  they  "never,  never  in  their  born  days  heard  the  like."  I  can 
bear  tolerably  well  to  be  equalled  when  I  feel  good;  but  to  be  so 
astonishingly  outdone — it  is  too  much  for  flesh  and  blood  and  my 
common  share  of  humility.  What  say  you,  sir,  must  we  not  slip 
our  cables  and  get  out  of  harbor  as  soon  as  we  can  ?  No,  no,  you 
will  say,  let  us  be  men  and  ride  it  out.  So  be  it,  so  be  it,  if  the 
thing  can  be  done. 

I  think  he  will  come.  All  that  he  says  against  is  not  more  than 
he  ought  to  say,  "omnibus  consideratis  et  considerandis." 

Pray  tell  me  what  was  done,  said  and  felt  before  he  left  Bos- 
ton? Write  me  soon.  You  must  also  write  to  Dr.  Dwight,  and 
tell  him  from  us  all  that  he  must  write  to  Gov.  Strong  and  Mr. 
Griffin  and  compel  them  to  accept.  He  must  not  defer  doing  it. 
He  can  do  much.  The  Lord  help  us  all.  We  must  prosper.  All 
depends  upon  proper  exertions. 

As  to  the  united  publication.  Please  to  direct  the  printer  to 
do  up  for  me  two  hundred.  Let  there  be  four  bundles,  fifty  in 
each  bundle,  done  very  firmly  in  strong  paper.  Let  him  send  me 
one  hundred  and  fifty  of  the  minor  work,  and  fifty  of  the  major. 
They  must  be  seasonably  lodged  at  Davenport's  in  Boston,  di- 
rected to  me  for  the  Newburyport  stage  (not  the  mail  stage). 
Please  to  accept  and  make  my  love  to  your  lady. 

From  your  friend  and  brother, 

S.  SPKING. 

From  Dr.  Morse  to  Dr.  Dwight. 

CHABLESTOWN,  July  15,  1808. 
DEAK  Sm, — I  wrote  you  by  Mr.  Stuart  who  I  conclude  will 

reach  New  Haven  to-day.     I  now  drop  a  line  by  Mr. ,  just  to 

say  that  Mr.  Griffin  has  made  a  very  strong  and  universal  im- 
pression this  way  in  his  favor.  All  the  orthodox  who  are  friends 
to  our  Institution  and  to  Boston  unite  in  saying — "  he  must  come." 
Dr.  S.  in  a  letter  of  yesterday  among  other  things  says — "you 
must  write  to  Dr.  Dwight,  and  tell  him  from  us  all  that  he  must 
write  to  Gov.  Strong  and  Mr.  Griffin  and  compel  them  to  accept. 
He  must  not  defer  doing  it.  He. can  do  much.  The  Lord  help  us 
all.  We  must  prosper.  All  depends  upon  proper  exertions."  This 
is  the  language  and  feeling  at  Andover,  where  we  had  a  Trustee 
meeting  last  Wednesday.  We  have  agreed  to  open  the  Institution 
the  21st  of  September.  Dr.  Pearson  has  accepted,  and  is  then 
to  be  ordained — your  sermon  to  be  the  ordination  sermon — 01 


APPENDIX.  597 

which  you  will  hear  officially  soon  from  Dr.  P.  It  is  a  most 
critical  and  anxious  period  with  us.  The  camp  of  the  enemy  is 
alarmed,  they  are  awake,  and  every  engine  of  opposition  is  in 
requisition.  But  we  are  better  fortified  and  are  stronger  than 
they  imagine.  The  union  in  Theological  Institution  and  in  Pano- 
plist  and  Magazine  makes  us  powerful  and  enables  us  to  look  them 
in  the  face  boldly.  Mr.  Stuart  will  tell  you  much.  Pray  use  all 
your  influence  directly  and  through  the  clergy  of  New  York  to  per- 
suade Mr.  Griffin  to  come  over  and  help  us.  Mr.  Stuart  was  also 
highly  acceptable  and  would  make  an  excellent  Professor  (either 
of  Christian  or  Natural  Theology).  As  to  Mr.  G.,  Dr.  S.  calls  him 
the  "  Mammoth  Orator,"  and  adds  that  his  people  say  "  that  they 
never,  NEVER  in  their  born  days  heard  the  like."  This  indicates  the 
impression  made. 

We  intend  giving  a  character  of  Mr.  Ames  in  next  Panoplist, 
notwithstanding  what  Mr.  D.  said  in  his  eulogy,  "  that  he  (Mr. 
Ames)  did  not  attribute  to  Deity  those  moral  qualities  which 
would  shock  us  in  man — that  he  delighted  not  in  impossibilities 
— that  he  rejected  the  additions  made  to  religion  by  cunning 
statesmen  and  aspiring  priests,  and  treated  them  as  his  Master 
did  the  traditions  of  the  elders;  by  which  he  evidently  aimed 
backhanded  strokes  at  orthodoxy.  We  shall  be  able  authentically 
to  say,  that  Mr.  Ames  was  an  avowed  Trinitarian — that  he  was 
an  admirer  and  warm  advocate  of  the  Assembly's  Catechism — and 
that  he  declared  that  his  hope  of  salvation,  which  was  Calvinistic, 
and  strong,  rented  wholly  on  the  mercy  of  God  through  Jesus  Christ. 
Yet  Mr.  D.  says,  "  He  saw  death  approaching,  but  that  rectitude 
of  intention,  that  sublimity  of  virtue  which  had  governed  and  exalted 
him  in  life,  sustained  him  in  his  last  hour." 

I  am  drawn  unintentionally  to  prolong  this  letter.  On  Thurs- 
day last  the  Africans  of  Boston  kept  a  day  of  Thanksgiving,  in 
consequence  of  the  abolition  of  the  slave  trade.  I  preached  on 
the  occasion.  I  will  tell  you  more  of  this  business  when  I  see 
you. 

Should  you  see  Mr.  Evarts,  I  will  thank  you  to  say  to  him, 
we  are  waiting  to  have  article  America  complete.  Can  you  spare 
time  to  look  over  the  review  of  article  Angel,  in  Anthology,  with  Mr. 
E.,  and  suggest  how  we  shall  review  the  same  Article  3  ?  It  is 
of  some  importance.  I  think  it  is  in  the  number  of  Anthology 
for  April  or  May.  It  is  three  weeks  since  we  heard  from  our  sons. 
We  are  anxious  for  them.  All  well.  Mrs.  M.  expects  Mrs.  D. 
with  you  in  September.  As  I  shall  see  you  here,  possibly  I  shall 
not  come  on  to  Connecticut.  I  don't  give  it  up  however.  I  send 


598       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

you  one  of  my  ordination  sermons.    Yours  ought  to  have  occupied 
its  place  before  the  public.     We  send  regards  as  usual. 

Affectionately  yours, 

J.  MORSE. 

P.  S. — Think  if  you  please  to  bring  on  Dr.  Smith's  Diploma; 
Dr.  Burder  has  written  me  about  it.  We  have  agreed  to  issue 
subscriptions  to  purchase  a  Library  for  Theological  Institution. 
Can  anything  be  obtained  for  us  in  New  Haven  and  Connecticut 
generally  ?  We  shall  need  all  the  aid  which  can  possibly  be  ob- 
tained. Pray  give  your  influence  to  our  united  publication,  Pano- 
plisl  and  Magazine.  It  is  very  important  that  this  work  should 
prosper.  It  is  a  powerful  engine  in  support  of  orthodoxy. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Horse. 

ANDOVEB,  July  25,  1808. 

YERY  DEAR  SIR, — We  are  determined  not  to  accept  Gov.  Strong's 
negative.  The  Founders  have  signed  a  letter  to  that  purpose,  and 
deputed  Dr.  P.  to  visit  the  Governor.  He  set  out  this  morning. 
I  mean  to  visit  Dr.  Osgood  this  week  in  order  to  open  the  whole 
business  of  the  Institution  and  prevail  on  him  to  advise  Mr. 
Gray  rightly.  I  went  to  Newburyport  with  the  letter  Thursday 
and  returned  Friday.  Mr.  Bartlett  is  charmed  with  his  Pro- 
fessor, will  do  everything  to  induce  him  to  come;  but  will  not 
consent  to  his  receiving  any  part  of  his  support  from  Boston  or 
any  where  else.  He  will  support  him,  and  let  him  preach  gratis 
where  he  pleases.  I  hope  to  spend  Friday  night  with  you  this 
week, — I  have  engaged  to  preach  for  Brother  Walker  next  Sab- 
bath. The  matter  of  advertisement  will  be  attended  to  without 
delay. 

We  are  all  in  health.  I  talked  of  setting  out  for  New  Haven 
ten  days  ago,  but  Dr.  Spring  urged  me  to  stay  till  some  arrange- 
ment could  be  made  for  Library.  That  matter  hangs.  But  as 
Dr.  Spring  is  engaged  in  the  business,  I  hope  it  will  not  fail.  It 
must  not.  It  is  a  trial  to  my  feelings,  that  no  direct,  effectual 
measures,  can,  in  present  circumstances,  be  taken  to  bring  for- 
ward what  we  wish  respecting  the  department  of  Ecclesias- 
tical History.  May  Divine  wisdom  guide  in  that,  and  in  all 
respects. 

Lately  I  have  had  two  free  conversations  with  Mr.  D — 
We   shall   be    right.     The    day   dawns.     The    manner    in   which 
our  Association  have  treated  D.  prepares  the  way  for  a  general 


APPENDIX.  599 

peace.     May  we  all   have   Christ's  spirit,  and  be  useful  to  His 
cause. 

In  health,  and  with  united  love  to  you  and  Mrs.  Morse,  we 
are  yours, 

L.  AND  A.  WOODS. 

From  Dr.  Griffin  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWARK,  N.  J.,  July  28,  1808. 

REV.  AND  DEAR  SIR, — Your  favor  of  the  23d  inst.  was  received 
last  evening  I  have  every  reason  to  be  grateful  to  you,  and  to 
the  gentlemen  connected  with  you,  for  the  respectful  attentions 
which  have  been  gratuitously  bestowed  upon  me.  I  thank  you 
particularly  for  the  obliging  sentiments  contained  in  your  letter. 
While  I  contemplate  the  friends  of  your  Institution  and  our  friends 
in  Boston,  animated  with  such  desires,  and  struggling  with  such 
difficulties  to  promote  the  interest  of  our  common  family,  I  feel 
that  you  are  entitled  to  the  generous  thanks,  and  firm  support  of 
the  whole  Christian  church.  What  I  can  consistently  do  with  ray 
feeble  talents,  and  very  limited  influence,  shall  be  done.  In  say- 
ing this,  however,  I  would  not  be  understood  to  hold  out  any  en- 
couragement of  co-operating  with  you  in  the  manner  proposed. 
This  suggestion  would  be  inconsistent  with  that  frankness  which 
your  object,  your  character,  and  your  treatment  of  me  deserve. 
The  appointment  at  Andover  considered  distinct  from  any  other  ob- 
ject, and  in  the  form  in  which  it  is  now  presented  before  me,  I  can- 
not accept.  My  reasons  have  been  detailed  in  a  letter  to  Dr.  Spring, 
and  need  not  here  be  repeated.  In  regard  to  another  object  con- 
nected with  that  appointment,  permit  me  to  say  it  is  not  before  me  in 
any  form  in  which  it  is  proper  for  me  to  consider  it.  For  (1.)  the 
Constitution  of  the  Seminary  forbids  a  Professor  to  be  connected 
with  a  Parish.  (2.)  I  have  no  written  request  from  any  gentle- 
men in  Boston  which  I  can  show  to  my  friends,  or  to  which  I  can 
make  a  written  reply.  In  an  affair  of  this  nature,  in  which  friends 
are  to  be  consulted,  and  the  correctness  of  a  minister's  conduct  is 
to  be  examined  by  the  churches  and  the  world,  the  whole  transac- 
tion ought  to  appear  on  paper,  and  no  blank  should  be  left  to  be 
filled  up  with  verbal  explanations.  '  I  am  aware  that  no  regular 
call  can  be  given  before  a  congregation  is  formed.  But  I  did 
suppose  (unless  the  object  as  it  relates  to  me  were  abandoned) 
that  two  or  more  gentlemen  would  lay  open  the  whole  business 
in  a  letter  jointly  subscribed,  in  which  their  wishes  would  be  ex- 
pressed;— the  principles  on  which  a  church  is  to  be  formed,  either 


600       HISTORY  OF  ANDOVER   THEOLOGICAL   SEMINARY. 

referred  to  me,  or  else  distinctly  stated; — the  contemplated  pro- 
vision for  support,  the  quantity  of  service  expected,  the  proba- 
bility that  a  congregation  can  be  formed,  and  the  importance  of 
the  object,  all  definitely  explained.  Then  I  could  take  advice 
and  deliberate. 

I  was  disposed  when  at  Andover  and  Newburyport  to  give  a 
negative  answer  at  once,  but  I  was  pressed  so  hard  by  the  gen- 
tlemen who  had  written  me  not  to  take  that  step,  till  both 
objects  should  be  fully  laid  before  me,  that  I  was  perhaps  im- 
prudently induced  to  promise  to  wait  and  hear  all.  I  must,  and 
here  I  do,  protesting  all  the  while  against  any  inference  that  may 
be  drawn  from  the  exact  position.  And  if  I  must  hear,  it  would 
be  hard  to  deny  me  the  right  of  speaking.  Thus  then  I  come  by 
irrefragable  arguments  to  the  conclusion,  that  my  tongue  is  loosed 
from  all  restraint  and  I  may  indulge  my  garrulous  propensity  to 
my  heart's  content.  And  since  I  am  just  now  in  a  loquacious 
humor  I  will  speak  on.  Should  so  strange  a  thing  turn  up  as 
that  I  should  come  to  Boston,  is  it  expected  that  I  should  reside 
in  town  all  the  year  ?  If  not,  could  I  be  accommodated  there  in 
the  winter  with  leave  to  pursue  my  studies  without  the  distraction 
of  parochial  care  ?  If  at  any  time  I  should  find  it  necessary  to 
spend  the  winter  out  of  Boston  (not  however  neglecting  the  pul- 
pit) would  this  give  satisfaction?  Will  a  house  be  provided  by 
the  congregation  ?  In  what  part  of  the  town  ?  Two  houses  must 
be  furnished  instead  of  one.  And  I  suppose  it  would  make  any- 
body laugh  to  see  Mr.  Griffin's  furniture  split  into  two,  and  one 
half  of  every  chair  and  table  at  Boston,  and  the  other  half  at  An- 
dover;— or  to  see  the  integrity  of  each  preserved,  and  the  whole 
marching  twenty  miles  at  every  vernal  and  autumnal  equinox. 
These  and  many  such  questions  I  know  it  is  not  for  you  to  an- 
swer. You  cannot  answer  satisfactorily;  but  you  know  who  can. 
These  hints  ought  not  to  come  from  me, — and  they  come  only 
to  you;  they  will  go  no  further. 

But  there  is  one  question  which  ought  to  be  treated  with  more 
seriousness.  Is  the  new  church  to  be  founded,  and  the  sacra- 
ments to  be  administered  on  Edwardean  principles  ?  If  so,  will 
Dr.  Kollock  conform  ?  Or  must  there  be  two  different  modes  of 
practice  in  one  church?  If  but  one  mode,  who  is  expected  to 
yield?  You  know  my  sentiments,  and  I  know  what  his  once 
were.  They  may  have  changed.  But  certainly  we  ought  to  un- 
derstand each  other  before  we  set  out.  I  love  my  brother  Kollock. 
He  is  my  particular  and  dear  friend,  and  I  should  delight  to  have 
him  for  a  colleague  more  than  almost  any  other  man,  if  that  single 


APPENDIX.  601 

difficulty  were  removed.  Perhaps  it  can — merely  by  his  silence. 
I  expect  him  to  see  this. 

My  own  opinion  of  the  sacraments  out  of  the  question,  I  am 
persuaded  that  the  confidence,  zeal  and  energies  of  the  New  England 
churches  can  never  be  enlisted  to  support  the  Theological  Institu- 
tion unless  that  Institution  be  known  to  favor  the  opinions  of  their 
revered  Edwards.  This  is  certainly  true  of  that  portion  of  the 
Presbyterian  church,  from  which  the  Seminary  has  the  best  pros- 
pect of  deriving  support.  The  most  evangelical,  and  therefore 
the  most  effective  portion  of  the  American  churches,  are  I  believe 
every  day  becoming  more  and  more  impressed  with  the  necessity 
of  taking  a  decided  stand,  ^ow  I  take  it  for  granted  that  the 
Academy  and  the  new  congregation  will  be  generally  understood 
to  be  united;  and  the  public  will  look  to  the  congregation  for  a 
practical  illustration  of  the  doctrines  taught  in  the  Academy.  If  a 
discipline  which  they  consider  lax,  be  supported  in  the  one,  they 
will  have  less  confidence  in  the  other.  It  will  be  presumed  that 
the  two  agree,  and  they  ought  to  agree.  If  the  object  and  interest 
of  both  be  one  (and  not  otherwise)  every  accession  to  the  congre- 
gation will  increase  the  friends  of  the  Academy,  and  the  Pastors 
will  only  be  enlarging  the  influence  of  the  Professors,  in  the  very 
heart  of  Boston.  May  I  add,  that  in  my  humble  opinion,  the  im- 
mediate interest  of  the  congregation  itself  greatly  depends  on  pre- 
serving strictness  in  these  matters.  The  stand  to  be  made  in 
Boston  must  be  on  ground  encircled  by  a  very  distinct  line  of 
demarcation.  Unless  there  be  a  visible  and  palpable  difference 
between  the  old  churches  and  the  new  ones,  who  will  see  any 
reason  for  coming  over  to  the  latter  ?  Accessions  will  depend  on 
accident  and  caprice  rather  than  on  principle,  and  who  will  re- 
joice in  such  accessions  as  additions  to  the  Redeemer's  Kingdom, 
or  calculate  on  the  permanency  of  ties  so  brittle  and  deceptive? 
In  a  congregation  already  formed  and  living  in  peace,  good  men 
will  differ  on  the  degree  of  indulgence  to  be  exercised  towards 
" tender  consciences"  But  if  there  ever  was  a  clear  case  for  deci- 
sion and  thorough-going  discipline,  there  is  a  call  for.  both  in  the 
congregation  to  be  formed,  at  this  crisis,  in  Boston.  The  motto 
which,  glossed  with  "  the  meekness  of  wisdom,"  should  be  inscribed 
on  the  portals  of  the  new  church,  and  on  the  foreheads  and  hearts 
of  the  Pastors  is  this,  "Come  out  from  among  them  and  be  ye 
separate."  Men  of  this  decided  character,  if  they  are  men  of 
prayer  and  prudence,  will  succeed  in  Boston,  and  none  else  will, 
I  believe. 

Thus,  sir,  I  have  opened  my  mind  to  you  without  reserve,  that 


602       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

you  may  have  opportunity  to  correct  me  where  I  err.  With  per- 
fect confidence  in  you,  I  commit  the  whole  to  your  discretion. 
With  my  best  respects  to  Mrs.  Morse  and  yourself,  in  which 
Mrs.  G.  joins, 

I  am,  dear  sir, 

Your  friend  and  obedient  servant, 

E.  D.  GRIFFIN. 

From  Dr.  Dwight  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEW  HAVEN,  Aug.  I,  1808. 

DEAR  SIR, — I  have  written  to  Gov.  Strong,  and  have  received 
his  answer  in  the  negative.  It  will,  I  think,  be  useless  to  write 
again. 

Mr.  Griffin  in  a  long  conversation  with  me,  explained  to  me, 
in  confidence,  his  situation,  and  views,  very  fully;  and  then  asked 
me  whether  I  thought  it  his  duty  to  leave  his  present  station.  I 
was  unable  conscientiously  to  answer  in  the  affirmative.  I  can 
say  nothing  more  to  him  in  a  letter. 

Mr.  Holly  of  Greenfield  is  about  leaving  his  cure,  because  the 
congregation  has  through  the  acts  and  falsehoods  of  somebody, 
whom  I  could  name,  become  too'  small  to  support  him.  If  he 
does  not  go  to  New  York,  as  I  am  fearful  he  will,  to  the  church 
just  now  finishing  there,  I  am  apprehensive  he  might  be  obtained; 
he  is  young  but  possessed  of  fine  talents,  an  excellent  writer  and 
speaker,  and  both  very  studious  and  very  able.  At  the  same  time 
he  is  more  correct  in  his  exhibitions  than  most  men,  especially  of 
his  standing.  Within  a  few  years  he  would,  in  my  view,  be  more 
than  commonly  well  qualified  for  the  department  of  sacred  elo- 
quence, and  indeed  for  any  other.  I  heard  him  preach  for  the 
first  time  in  New  York.  He  was  highly  applauded  and  deserved 
it.  Our  Commencement  is  on  Sept.  14.  Our  prudential  Com- 
mittee breaks  up  on  Friday  noon,  or  in  the  evening.  If  I  could 
set  out  on  Saturday,  (which  will  be  impossible,)  I  could  not  reach 
Andover  on  the  following  Tuesday.  You  must  therefore  appoint 
another  preacher,  or  another  day.  Either  will  be  acceptable 
to  me. 

I  cannot  conceive  how  I  am  to  comprise  the  opening  of  the 
Theological  Seminary,  and  the  concerns  of  an  ordination  in  one 
discourse.  The  proposition  makes  two  capital  subjects,  and 
makes  two  discourses  of  necessity;  only  they  are  both  to  be 
delivered  by  one  person  at  one  time.  Surely  a  discourse  of  this 
nature  ought  never  to  be  printed.  I  should  think  there  ought  to 


APPENDIX.  603 

be  an  ordination  sermon,  and  another  for  the  other  purpose.  If 
you  alter  the  time,  as  possibly  you  may,  I  am  willing  to  take 
either. 

Some  other  person  should  invest  the  Professors  with  their 
privileges,  and  salute  them.  In  my  opinion,  more  than  one  office 
should  never  be  given  to  one  man  on  a  public,  solemn  occasion. 
I  could  give  my  reasons;  but  you  will  readily  collect  them.  I 
shall  soon  write  to  Dr.  Pearson  and  Mr.  Woods.  My  love  to  them 
both.  I  wish  for  early  information  concerning  what  I  am  to  do. 

Mr.  Day  will  go  to  Andover  for  a  year,  if  he  may  attend  the 
Academy  only  six  hours  a  day.  I  have  tried  this  business  as 
long  as  most  men;  I  am  certain  that  neither  the  master  nor  the 
scholars,  can  safely  spend  more  time,  ordinarily,  than  this.  The 
health  will,  I  am  sure,  never  admit  of  more. 

I  doubt  of  any  success,  at  present,  to  your  subscription  to  your 
Library,  here.  Our  people  feel  embarrassed. 

I  thank  you  for  your  sermon,  and  think  it  a  very  good  one. 
The  people  lost  nothing  by  my  absence. 

My  eyes  permit  me  to  add  nothing  but  Mrs.  Dwight's  and  my 
own  affectionate  remembrances  to  you  and  yours. 
I  am,  as  ever,  your  friend  and  brother, 

TIMOTHY  DWIGHT. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Osgood. 

ANDOYER,  Aug.  2,  1808. 

EESPECTED  AND  BELOVED  SIR, — I  reflect  with  great  satisfaction 
on  my  visit  at  your  house.  Your  approbation  of  our  Institution, 
and  your  kind  offer  of  your  assistance  to  me,  have  operated,  as  a 
peculiar  encouragement,  as  well  as  pleasure.  Nor  can  I  help  in- 
dulging a  hope,  that  the  views  which  you  have  of  the  Seminary 
will  be  communicated,  with  effect,  to  Mr.  Gray  and  others,  and 
thus  you  will  then  be  eminently  useful  to  the  cause  of  Sacred 
Literature,  and  confer  a  great  obligation  on  all  concerned  in  this 
Institution.  We  are  fully  aware  of  your  influence,  and  have  no 
doubt  of  your  success  if  you  are  favored  with  a'  good  opportunity 
to  disclose  your  feelings.  The  approaching  time  of  opening  the 
Institution  renders  it  very  desirable,  that  something  be  done  for 
a  Library  without  delay.  Shall  I  ask  the  favor  of  your  informing 
me  respecting  your  interview  with  Mr.  Gr.  as  soon  as  it  shall  have 
taken  place?  If  he  should  conclude  to  do  any  thing,  he  will 
doubtless  request  you  to  furnish  a  list  of  books.  We  want  ten 
thousand  dollars'  worth  at  the  outset.  Of  those  which  are  to  be 


604       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

our  classics  in  theology,  we  shall  wish  for  a  considerable  number 
of  copies. 

The  mistaken  report  respecting  the  students  being  required 
to  subscribe  a  creed  has  been  strangely  circulated,  and  busily 
used,  as  an  instrument  to  disgrace  the  Institution.  The  pretence, 
that  there  is  any  hostility  designed  against  Harvard  College,  is 
wholly  groundless.  We  have  nothing  to  do  with  college  ground. 
A  college  education  is  required  in  order  to  admission  into  our 
Seminary.  The  business  of  college  is  totally  distinct  from  ours. 

As  our  Institution  is  designed  for  extensive  operation,  and  as 
we  wish  to  consider  it  the  property  of  the  Christian  public,  it  is 
important  that  we  should  have  the  direct  patronage  of  all  who  have 
influence  in  the  cause  of  truth,  and  that  our  funds  should  be  suf- 
ficient to  raise  the  Institution  above  the  contempt  of  its  enemies. 
Our  funds  have  only  begun.  Our  prospect  in  this  respect  is 
pleasing.  It  is  with  pleasure  I  can  tell  you,  that  Gov.  Strong 
gives  our  Institution  his  cordial  approbation  and  good  wishes, 
and  says,  if  he  were  within  thirty  miles,  he  should  have  no  hesita- 
tion about  accepting  the  office  of  Visitor.  We  hope  he  will  accept, 
distant  as  he  is. 

With  cordial  affection  and  esteem,  and  with  devout  wishes  for 
the  health  and  happiness  of  your  family, 
I  am,  Eev.  Sir, 

Your  friend  and  servant, 

L.  WOODS. 

P.  S. — Why  will  you  not  make  arrangements  to  come  to  An- 
dover  ?  The  ride  would  be  serviceable  to  Mrs.  Osgood  and  the 
visit  very  pleasant  to  all  your  friends  here. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morxe. 

ANDOVER,  Aug.  4,  1808. 

BELOVED  SIR, — Dr.  Osgood  has  followed  up  the  business  with 
Mr.  Gray.  He  has  done  nobly.  Mr.  Norris  says,  he  could  not 
wish  the  Dr.  to  say  more  or  better,  than  he  did  at  his  house 
Monday  with  Mr.  Gray.  But  in  vain.  There  is  no  prospect. 
You  must  attend  to  Deacon  Salisbury,  before  it  is  too  late. 
Perhaps  Dr.  Kollock  will  be  a  good  and  to  help  with  him. 
But  other  measures  must  be  taken.  I  think  a  subscription  must 
soon  be  set  going.  But  the  Founders  must  be  applied  to  first. 
I  think  I  shall  see  them  and  Dr.  S.  this  week.  Mrs.  Spring, 
Tuesday  was  hardly  able  to  live.  I  fear  the  next  tidings,  but 


APPENDIX.  605 

hope  God  will  show  favor  to  the  family,  and  to  many  besides,  by 
sparing  her  life. 

I  send  three  sermons.  You  may  pick  out  something  that  will 
do  in  a  pinch.  Two  of  them  are  the  first  two  sermons  I  preached. 
The  matter  of  Mr.  Griffin  must  be  kept  right;  the  people  in  Boston 
must  know  delicately  by  and  by,  at  least  some  leading  men,  that 
Mr.  B.  must  wholly  support  his  Professor,  though  he  will  let  him 
preach  where  he  will.  The  recompense  .may  come  to  the  Institu- 
tion, and  the  sum  may  be  privately  talked  of  by  and  by. 
In  great  haste,  yours  with  love, 

L.  WOODS. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

ANDOVEB,  Aug.  10,  1808. 

DEAB  SIR, — I  have  lately  been  to  Newburyport  to  consult 
about  Library.  I  think  Dr.  S.  will  exert  himself  with  effect. 
You  shall  hear  soon  how  matters  succeed.  Meantime,  it  is  im- 
portant that  Deacon  Salisbury  come  to  a  conclusion,  if  he  have 
not  already.  If  he  consult  with  ....  there  is  no  hope.  We 
judged  it  best  not  to  open  a  subscription,  before  something  hand- 
some should  be  secured  of  the  Founders,  or  from  some  individual. 
Afterwards,  I  think  a  subscription  will  fill  up  fast,  in  Boston, 
Salem,  Newburyport,  etc.  In  New  York  and  Philadelphia,  I 
believe  something  can  be  done.  If  Deacon  S.  concludes  to  give 
something,  I  think  it  best  not  to  communicate  the  information 
just  yet.  Get  his  answer,  and  keep  it.  Mr.  Codman  promised 
me  a  list  of  his  books.  Has  he  gone  ?  If  not,  do  remind  him. 
I  shall  esteem  it  a  great  favor.  I  think  he  has  been  judicious  in 
his  selection.  If  you  can  get  the  list,  please  to  send  it  on  im- 
mediately, as  the  business  must  be  attended  to  without  delay. 
The  catalogue  of  books  in  Boston  Atheneum  might  be  some  help. 

I  shall  hope  to  see  you  at  the  annual  meeting.  If  Mrs.  Morse 
can  ride  with  you,  and  make  us  a  visit,  it  will  give  us  much  joy. 
Accept  with  her,  our  very  cordial  esteem  and  love.  All  well. 
I  am,  beloved  sir, 

Your  friend  and  servant, 

L.  WOODS. 

P.  S. — A  subscription  paper  is  in  readiness,  well  written  by 
Dr.  P.  Mrs.  Spring  has  been  much  lower  within  ten  days 
than  before.  But  little  hope  remaining.  I  long  to  see  you,  as 
though  I  had  been  absent  from  you  half  a  year.  Adieu. 

L.  W. 


606       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

From  Dr.  E.  Pearson  to  Dr.  Morse. 

ANDOVEK,  Aug.  19,  1808. 

DEAR  SIR, — I  returned  last  evening  from  Newburyport,  via 
Salem,  left  Mrs.  Spring  very  low,  scarcely  able  to  articulate 
in  audible  whispers;  may  God  in  His  great  mercy  still  spare 
her  to  her  family  and  friends,  and  as  a  living  example  of  the 
excellence  of  the  Christian  religion.  Her  situation  necessarily 
engages  most  of  the  Doctor's  attention;  he  will,  however,  see 
Mr.  Norris  on  the  subject  of  Library,  as  soon  as  practica- 
ble. By  his  advice  I  waited  on  Mr.  Gray,  and  had  a  free, 
open  and  full  conversation,  which,  though  it  will  probably 
procure  no  books,  will  have  its  use.  Dr.  Spring  is  averse  to  the 
idea  of  picking  up  books  here  and  there,  by  a  general  sub- 
scription. He  has  received  no  answer  from  Deacon  Salisbury. 
I  hope  you  will  see  him  before  Trustee  meeting.  I  am  disap- 
pointed in  having  no  letter  from  Dr.  D wight.  We  shall  be 
obliged  to  postpone  matters  a  week  I  expect.  The  examination 
of  the  Academy  is  to  commence  on  Monday,  2  o'clock  p.  M.  As 
one  of  the  Committee,  I  wish  you  may  be  able  to  attend;  but  if 
not,  don't  fail  of  coming  on  Monday,  and  of  sleeping  with  us. 
We  must  have  previous  communication  on  several  points.  Re- 
member the  manoeuvres  of  last  year,  and  be  not  again  taken  by 
surprise.  Learn  how  the  cat  jumps  at  Boston.  Depend  upon  it, 
endeavors  will  not  be  wanting  to  obstruct  our  views,  and  in 
every  way  to  oppose  our  object.  An  eagle  eye  is  necessary, 
tim.eo  Danaos  eliam  dona  ferentes.  Sat  verbum,  when  we  meet 
more  may  be  suggested.  In  meantime,  with  affectionate  remem- 
brance of  Mrs.  Morse, 

I  am  your  undeviating  friend, 

E.  PEARSON. 

P.  S. — Saturday,  10  o'clock  A.  M.  A  letter  from  Mr.  Day,  this 
moment  received,  says  "  he  will  come  on  and  make  an  experiment." 
Your  son  Eichard  is  very  well. 

From  Dr.  Griffin  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWARK,  N.  J.,  Aug.  20,  1808. 

REV.  AND  DEAR  SIR, — Your  favor  of  the  9th  ult.  arrived  in  its 
proper  time.  It  appeared  at  first  to  require  no  answer,  being  in- 
tended only  as  an  introduction  to  a  more  full  communication. 
But  from  a  reconsideration  of  one  passage  in  connection  with  what 


APPENDIX.  607 

I  have  heard  from  New  Haven,  I  am  led  to  believe  that  candor 
calls  for  some  explanation  from  me.  I  allude  to  the  following 
sentence,  "  I  write  this  merely  to  let  you  know  we  are  thinking 
of  you  and  making  every  arrangement  to  prepare  the  way  for 
your  removal."  This  has  the  appearance  of  calculating  on  the 
event,  as  at  least  highly  probable.  I  am  the  rather  disposed  to 
give  it  this  construction,  as  I  have  learned  that  Dr.  Dwight  has 
told  you  that  I  will  come.  I  can  only  say  that  I  did  not  author- 
ize Dr.  Dwight  to  write  in  this  manner,  nor  did  I  in  my  letter  to 
Mr.  Stuart,  on  which  the  Dr.  founded  his  conjecture,  express  any 
decision  of  my  own  mind,  nor  I  believe  any  opinion.  In  regard 
to  my  letter  to  you,  you  will  please  to  bear  in  mind,  that  I  stood 
bound  to  the  gentlemen  at  Andover  and  Newburyport,  to  with- 
hold my  final  answer  until  both  objects  should  be  fairly  and  fully 
presented  before  me.  This  engagement  I  made  out  of  respect  to 
their  feelings  and  opinions,  while  my  own  mind  was  impressed  with 
a  belief  that  I  could  not  remove.  I  did  not  conceal  from  them 
this  impression,  but  explicitly  and  repeatedly  declared  it.  Still 
they  urged  me  to  wait,  and  hear  all.  I  was  prevailed  on  to 
promise  this.  I  was  afraid  to  do  otherwise.  I  was  so  affected 
by  tlieir  anxiety  and  kindness,  that  I  thought  I  could  not  do 
otherwise.  And  yet  upon  reflection  I  am  far  from  vindicating  the 
prudence  of  that  promise.  I  fear  that  I  did  wrong.  Having, 
however,  bound  myself  to  give  the  gentlemen  in  Boston,  oppor- 
tunity to  exhibit  their  object  at  full  length,  I  thought  it  a  duty 
which  I  owed  them  to  facilitate  their  application  by  suggesting 
what  I  deemed  the  only  way,  in  which  they  could  give  me  a  full 
view  of  the  object.  This  I  supposed  consistency  and  candor  re- 
quired me  to  do,  whatever  might  be  my  own  opinion  in  the  event.  If 
in  atr^mpting  this,  I  was  understood  to  hold  out  any  encour- 
aqpme>^  I  beg  leave  to  correct  that  impression.  I  am  still  free; 
and  so  are  my  friends  in  Boston.  If  they  think  proper  to  pro- 
ceed no  farther,  I  acquit  them  of  all  obligation.  If  they  proceed, 
they  must  do  it  without  any  encouragement  from  me.  In  regard 
to  the  line  of  distinction  on  which  you  promise  to  write  more  at 
large,  I  shall  suspend  all  remarks  until  I  hear  further  from  you. 
Mrs.  Griffin  joins  me  in  respectful  and  affectionate  salutations  to 
Mrs.  Morse  and  yourself. 

I  am,  dear  sir,  with  the  greatest  respect, 

Your  friend  and  obedient  servant, 

E.  D.  GRIFFIN. 


608       HISTORY   OF    ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

From  Dr.  Spring  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBURYPOKT,  Aug.  29,  1808. 

DEAR  BROTHER, — Mr.  G.,  D.  P.,  and  Mr.  S.  have  failed.  They 
will  furnish  no  Library.  So  be  it.  If  they  had  done  it,  we  should 
be  embarrassed  by  the  measure.  I  shall  look  to  the  Associates. 
What  they  will  do  in  these  horrid  embargo  times  I  cannot  tell. 
They  have  the  object  under  consideration.  I  hope  nothing  will 
be  done  at  Boston  relative  to  a  connection  between  Mr.  Griffin 

and  Dr.  K which  will  prove  unsafe  or  not  pleasing  to  Mr. 

Bartlett.  I  depend  upon  him  for  the  Library,  and  you  must 
know  that  he  means  to  support  his  Professor  wholly,  aside  from 
any  other  help.  I  hope  I  shall  not  do  wrong  in  remarking,  that 
Dr.  D 1  has  a  question  whether  Dr.  K is  shaped  for  Bos- 
ton. Sat  verbum.  I  have  always  supposed  that  Mr.  G.  is  obtain- 
able; and  charity  calls  us  to  believe  ah1  things  and  hope  all  things 
relative  to  him ;  and  that  which  we  have  heard  is  the  expression  of 
envy  and  malignity.  No  wonder  if  he  be  hated  without  a  cause. 
Accept  much  love  from  yours  impartially, 

S.  SPRING. 

P.  S. — Mrs.  Spring  is  better.  I  saw  Dr.  Pearson's  lady  to-day. 
She  has  a  bad  cold,  but  is  mending.  Mrs.  S.  has  been  confined 
to  her  bed  thirty  days.  If  she  continues  to  mend  we  shall  get  her 
into  an  easy  chair,  we  hope,  this  week.  Mrs.  Morse  will  feel  for 
her. 

From  Dr.  Spring  to  Mr.  Norris. 

NEWBTTEYPORT,  Sept.  1,  1808. 

DEAR  BROTHER, — I  am  glad  they  have  all  refused  to  furnish  a 
Library.  If  they  had  subscribed  we  should  be  embarrassed  by 
the  donation.  To  have  the  influence  we  ought  in  the  Institution 
we  must  furnish  the  Library  on  the  principle  of  the  seven  years 
experiment,  as  you  have  committed  the  Associate  Foundation,  and 
then  we  shall  have  an  interest  to  bring  away,  and  one  which  will 
influence  them  to  let  us  remain  at  Andover  on  our  own  terms. 
Mr.  Brown  has  subscribed  $1,000;  Captain  Holland  $500;  Mr. 
Bartlett  will  be  generous,  and  will  you,  my  friend,  put  your  influ- 
ential name  after  Mr.  "Brown?  I  am  ashamed  to  ask  it  as  a  man, 
but  not  as  a  servant  of  Christ,  who  purchased  the  church  with  His 
own  blood,  and  makes  you  debtor  for  interest  which  He  has  gen- 
erously lodged  in  your  hands.  The  question  which  I  put  to  you, 


APPENDIX.  609 

I  also  put  to  dear  Mrs.  Norris.  Where  and  how  can  you  more 
wisely  appropriate  a  portion  of  your  property  ?  Am  I  too  free 
and  importunate  ?  No  !  not  for  Christ's  sake.  The  will  of  the 
Lord  be  done.  I  cannot  help  repeating  it,  we  must  furnish  the 
Library,  to  command  influence  in  the  Institution,  whether  at  the 
expiration  of  the  seven  years  experiment  we  coalesce  or  remove. 
I  intend  to  be  at  Andover  next  week,  perhaps  on  Monday.  Will  you 
be  on  the  ground  ?  Will  you  be  prepared  to  meet  the  Lord  with 
A  NEW  OFFERING  ?  I  believe  you  will,  if  the  Lord  intends  to  smile 
on  the  original  design  of  the  Institution.  The  will  of  the  Lord  is 
our  rule.  Make  and  receive  my  love  and  Mrs.  Spring's  as  due. 
Mrs.  S.  is  better  we  all  think.  Margaret  makes  her  grateful  respects. 
We  all  remember  Sally  with  love  and  solicitude,  dear  girl.  Mr. 
Brown  and  Mr.  Bartlett  have  done  nobly  in  giving  bonds  for  the 
first  prize  lately  brought  in  by  the  pirates,  so  called  by  the  body 
of  the  people.  Excuse  all  my  freedom  by  one  extensive  grant  of 
friendship,  and  let  me  be  yours  forever, 

S.    SPRING. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

ANDOYEB,  Sept.  7,  1808. 

I  am  sorry,  my  dear  sir,  that  it  is  out  of  my  power  to  comply 
with  your  request.  My  engagements  to  the  other  Parish  in  An- 
dover are  such  as  to  prevent.  Besides  this,  I  must  be  at  Byfield 
Monday,  by  previous  engagement,  to  do  business  with  a  Com- 
mittee of  our  Association  which  is  to  meet  Tuesday,  at  Dr.  Parish's. 
I  must  be  at  Newburyport  likewise  on  Monday.  I  have  no  doubt 
you  will  engage  somebody  to  supply.  Mr.  Allen  may  do  it  by 
exchange.  Perhaps  Dr.  Mason  can.  There  is  Mr.  Nourse  too, 
and  others.  I  wish  you  to  go  to  New  Haven  for  your  health, 
(which  may  God  continue  and  increase  for  many  years,)  and  like- 
wise for  other  important  purposes.  Why  don't  we  hear  from  Gov. 
Strong  ?  Dr.  Dwight  need  have  no  difficulty  about  the  complex 
nature  of  the  occasion,  when  his  sermon  is  to  be  delivered.  It 
is  to  be  a  sermon  adapted  to  the  Institution  and  the  inauguration. 
The  ordination  is  secondary  and  subservient.  I  hope  his  sermon 
will  be  shaped  for  the  public  eye.  It  must  be  published,  and 
in  order  to  that,  it  must  be  excellent. 

My  chief  concern  respecting  the  scheme  at  Boston  is,  lest  ar- 
rangements should  not  be  made  satisfactory  to  Mr.  B.,  etc.  They 
will  not  alter  their  statutes  unless  their  minds  alter  very  much 
from  what  they  now  are.  Mr.  Griffin  may  preach  at  Boston  half 


610      HISTORY  OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

the  time  for  the  present,  and  the  people  may  find  him  a  house  for 
himself  and  family,  to  be  at  command  whenever  they  wish  to  be 
in  Boston.  Mr.  G.  may  have  all  that  he  ought  to  wish  in  a  way 

of  support  from  Mr.  B 1.     But  the  honor  of  the  Institution, — 

would  it  not  suffer  to  let  out  one  of  its  Professors  to  preach?  This 
construction  would  be  put  upon  it. 

Remember  us  very  affectionately  to  Mrs.  Morse.  When  you  or 
Mrs.  Morse  write  to  Madam  Breese,  let  her  know  that  Mrs.  Woods 
and  I  think  of  her  and  her  son's  family  very  tenderly  in  this  time 
of  affliction.  Carry  love  and  respects  to  New  Haven  friends.  A 
letter  from  Dr.  Spring  to-day  informs  us  that  Mrs.  S.  is  still  so 
feeble,  that  he  could  not  come  to  Andover  as  he  meant.  Esqr, 
Pikes'  son  is  in  a  hazardous  state;  I  suppose  a  consumption  is 
feared. 

Do  inquire  for  Hebrew  Bibles,  and  Septuagints  and  buy  all  you 
can  find  at  New  Haven,  etc.  Also  Hebrew  and  Greek  Lexicons. 
We  shall  not  be  able  to  get  enough.  Be  upon  the  look-out  for 
other  rare  books,  to  be  given,  or  sold.  I  want  Stapfer,  Calvin's 
Institutes,  Lat.  Mastrieth,  etc. 

I  wish  you  a  pleasant  and  profitable  journey.  May  the  good- 
ness of  God  follow  you.  Remember  me  to  your  sons. 

In  sincerity, 

L.  WOODS. 

P.  S.—  A  letter  from  Mr.  Griffin,  lately  received,  speaks  pretty 
distantly  as  to  his  appointment.  Perhaps  his  Doctorate  will  pull 
him  along. 

From  Dr.  Griffin  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWARK,  N.  J.,  Sept.  24,  1803. 

REV.  AND  DEAR  SIB, — Your  kindness  and  respect  have  brought 
me  into  a  situation  of  perplexity,  which  after  waiting  a  week,  I 
can  no  longer  conceal  from  you.  /  shall  not  lay  my  call  before  the 
Presbytery.  You  are  entitled  to  know  the  reasons;  they  are  the 
following — 1.  I  know  not  what  the  gentlemen  mean  by  half  of 
the  time.  Is  it  expected  that  I  ever  should  ride  from  Andover 
to  Boston,  during  my  residence  in  the  country,  to  preach  on  a 
week  day  ?  2.  The  Constitution  of  your  school,  and  the  mind  of 

Mr.  Bartlett,  as  Dr.  informs  me;  also,   as  to  letters  from 

Newburyport  or  Andover,  I  have  had  none  except  what  I 
found  on  my  return  from  New  England  are  opposed  to  the  view 
of  the  two  stations.  3.  I  do  not  perceive  as  I  should  be  of  much 


APPENDIX.  611 

use  in  Boston;  I  could  have  no  influence  in  promoting  that  dis- 
cipline, which  I  view  of  great  importance  to  the  success  oi  the 
gospel.  On  the  contrary  I  must  be  present  to  see,  and  in  ap- 
pearance to  approve  of  baptisms  administered  to  persons  whom 
I  consider  improper  subjects.  Were  those  baptisms  administered 
in  private,  as  is  frequently  done  in  the  Presbyterian  church,  I 
should  have  no  concern  with  them.  But  as  they  are  likely  to  be 
conducted,  I  am  embarrassed.  4.  There  is  another  reason  which 
it  is  mortifying  to  state,  because  it  is  connected  with  the  subject  of 
"filthy  lucre"  I  desire  no  more  than  a  handsome  support  such  as  I 
have  at  present.  I  have  now  the  use  of  a  house  and  a  lot  of  eight 
or  ten  acres,  fire  wood  and  twelve  hundred  dollars,  together  with 
perquisites  and  presents  amounting  to  several  hundred  dollars  a 
year.  This  is  just  about  the  same  as  the  Congregational  min- 
isters receive  in  Boston.  Were  I  to  reside  in  Boston  without 
any  connection  with  Andover,  what  is  offered  in  my  call  would  be 
enough;  were  I  to  live  at  Andover,  without  any  connection  with 
Boston,  and  could  spend  the  winter  there,  what  I  receive  at 
Newark  (throwing  away  perquisites  and  presents)  would  be 
enough.  But  this  double  station  is  attended  with  some  peculiar 
disadvantages,  which  my  friends  appear  to  have  overlooked.  For, 
first,  after  receiving  a  house  and  salary  as  large  as  any  in  Boston, 
according  to  the  tenor  of  my  call,  I  must  both  rent  and  furnish 
another  house.  Secondly,  my  connection  with  Andover,  would 
oblige  me  to  keep  a  horse  and  chaise  which  I  suppose  no  Congre- 
gational minister  in  Boston  can  afford  to  do  if  confined  to  his 
salary.  Thirdly,  not  being  a  resident  Pastor,  I  should  receive 
few  or  no  perquisites  or  presents. 

My  residing  in  the  country  half  the  time  would  indeed  save 
something.  But  to  counterbalance  that,  I  should  be  obliged  to 
move  twice  a  year,  to  keep  two  houses  in  order,  two  sets  of 
furniture  in  repair,  to  lay  up  stores  in  two  places,  and  ride  from 
one  to  the  other  and  back  every  week.  By  these  means,  as  much 
would  be  lost  perhaps  as  would  be  saved  by  a  summer  residence 
in  the  country.  If  so,  I  should  be  on  a  footing  with  a  minister 
residing  constantly  in  Boston,  and  laboring  under  the  three  dis- 
advantages above  mentioned. 

On  the  whole,  I  am  discouraged  about  the  union  of  these  two 
stations.  The  expenses  are  too  great  for  me  to  support,  and  they 
are  greater  than  I  can  consent  to  lay  upon  my  friends.  Indeed 
my  character  would  suffer  in  view  of  the  world,  should  I  accept 
what  would  in  this  double  station,  render  my  support  equal  to 
that  of  a  resident  minister  in  Boston,  or  equal  to  what  it  now  is. 


612       HISTORY  OF  ANDOVER   THEOLOGICAL   SEMINARY. 

Therefore  as  things  at  present  appear,  I  see  that  I  must  make 
my  election  between  one  of  those  stations,  and  Newark.     At  least 
I  must  wait  to  see  what  agreement  c*«n  be  entered  into,  between 
Mr.  Bartlett  and  the  gentlemen  in  Boston,  and  what  apportion- 
ment of  my  salary  will  be  made  between  them. 
I  am,  dear  sir,  with  great  esteem  and  respect, 
Your  friend  and  obliging  servant, 

EDWARD  D.  GRIFFIN. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

Sept.  30,  1808,  Friday  night,  9  o'clock. 

VERY  BELOVED  SIR, — I  have  been  wholly  occupied  since  your 
departure,  with  the  business  of  examining,  etc.,  and  have  done 
nothing  as  you  requested  and  expected.  Nor  can  I.  For  to- 
morrow morning  early  I  go  to  Bradford  and  Newburyport  on 
business  which  cannot  be  neglected  nor  postponed.  The  letter 
from  Groshen,  you  will  answer.  I  think  encouragement  may  be 
given  the  young  men.  They  can,  probably,  be  supported  in  whole 
or  in  part.  But  we  cannot  promise.  We  hope  for  scholarships 
from  the  Associate  Founders,  if  there  be  occasion.  Six  are  ad- 
mitted. Two  more,  Abbot  and  Baily,  are  considered  on  the  old 
Foundation.  Two  more  will  be  here  immediately.  The  Founda- 
tions will  not  support  more  than  twelve.  But  I  wish  there  were 
twenty  on  the  spot.  It  would  rouse  the  hearts  of  some,  who  can 
and  will  do  nobly.  I  must  be  excused  from  preparing  the  article 
for  your  History.  We  object  to  anything  but  a  bare  statement 
of  facts.  I  would  attempt  it,  if  I  could.  But  'tis  impossible  at 
present.  As  to  the  book  business,  I  will  let  you  know  soon 
what  we  will  take.  Is  Armstrong  printing  J.  P.  Smith  ?  I  hope 
he  will  do  it  correctly.  I  think  I  shall  not  consent  to  print  my 
oration.  I  have  more  reasons  against  publishing  than  for  it, 
Dr.  P.  will  not  publish  his. 

Dr.  Dwight  did  not  stay  half  long  enough  with  us.  The  de- 
parture of  such  a  man  takes  away  much  happiness.  Remember 
us  most  affectionately  to  him  and  his  amiable  lady.  To  Mrs.  M. 
and  yourself  we  feel  ever  ardent  love  and  esteem.  Give  our 
love  to  all  your  dear  children. 

In  great  haste,  and  with  a  warm  heart, 

L.  WOODS. 

P.  S. — I  wish  a  new  edition  of  Dr.  Dwight's  sermon  on  in- 
fidel philosophy. 


APPENDIX.  613 

From  Dr.  Spring  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBUBYPOBT,   Oct.  6,  1808. 

DEAR  BROTHER, — Your  letter  by  Mr.  Gillet  came  to  hand 
last  night.  If  it  had  come  seasonably,  we  could  have  gone  on. 
Now  it  is  too  late.  Mr.  Bartlett  goes  this  morning  to  meet  the 
Federalists  of  the  County  on  politics.  Mr.  Bartlett  has  added 
ten  thousand  dollars  MORE  ad  aternum  to  the  other  ten  thousand 
for  the  support  of  his  Professor,  and  will  withdraw  that  temporary 
obligation.  He  is  wholly  averse  to  Dr.  Griffin's  being  concerned 
with  Boston  business.  He  does  not  care  how  much  he  preaches 
at  Boston  and  other  places,  but  he  will  not  have  him  incumbered. 
It  is  my  real  opinion  that  we  shall  raise  him  too  high  on  the  lad- 
der to  be  safe,  if  we  connect  him  with  the  Boston  society.  No 
man  can  stand  long  so  high  without  being  dizzy,  or  without  being 
invidiously  thrown  down.  I  don't  wish  to  see  the  mammoth  fall; 
for  he  will  shake  the  world  and  who  can  tell  the  consequences. 
I  shall  write  to  Dr.  Griffin  to-day.  He  will  have  twelve  hundred 
dollars  and  be  removed  without  expense,  etc.  If  this  will  not  in- 
duce him  I  shall  be  sorry  on  HIS  account.  I  believe  if  I  have  heard 
right,  that  Dr.  Griffin  will  not  approve  one  of  the  peculiarities 
of  the  Boston  connection.  At  any  rate,  if  we  do  not  mean  to  kill 
him,  and  wound  the  Institution,  he  must  be  confined  to  his  Pro- 
fessorship. In  haste, 

From  your  brother, 

S.  SPRING. 

P.  S. — Please  to  make  my  respects  to  Mrs.  Morse. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

ANDOVEE,  Oct.  16,  1808. 

DEARLY  BELOVED  SIR, — It  seems  truly  long  since  I  conversed 
with  you,  either  verbally  or  by  writing.  Since  the  opening  of  the 
Institution,  we  have  had  enough  to  do.  The  Saturday  after,  I 
was  obliged  to  go  to  Newbury  and  stay  till  the  next  Tuesday,,  as 
chaplain  of  the  Eegiment.  After  Dr.  P.'s  return  we  examined 
and  admitted  four  students;  since  then  we  have  admitted  one 
more,  making  eleven.  We  have  attended  to  plans  of  study,  etc. 
The  students  are  in  two  classes,  acd  have  attended  to  their  first 
exercises.  To  have  so  many  students,  of  such  a  character  in  point 
of  genius  and  piety,  is  a  great  token  for  good,  especially  at  the 
beginning.  We  expect  others  soon.  I  wish  to  know  whether 


614       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

you  have  written  to  the  young  gentlemen  in  Connecticut,  and 
whether  they  are  coming.  The  house  is  in  a  good  way, — the  roof 
is  to  go  on  in  two  or  three  weeks.  I  care  not  how  many  students 
come;  I  am  not  anxious  about  funds.  Everything  seems  to  be 
going  well  here,  excepting  my  poor,  dull,  earthly  heart.  I  can't 
do  without  more  grace,  if  I  have  any.  The  fountain  is  full,  \rhy 
may  I  not  have  a  supply  ?  I  desire  to  wait  on  God,  and  to  be  of 
good  courage. 

As  to  Dr.  Griffin,  the  state  of  things  seems  rather  forbidding 
and  trying.  But  has  not  God  ordered  everything  in  mercy?  Is 
not  the  cause  His  ?  Will  He  not  direct  all  as  wisely  as  He  has 
done  ?  I  have  seen  these  evils  at  a  distance.  I  never  expected 
Mr.  B.  would  fall  in  with  the  plan.  Nor  do  I  think  that  either 
Dr.  P.  or  Esqr.  F.  thinks  it  best.  I  should  cordially  acquiesce  in 
it,  if  it  could  be  adopted.  But,  I  fear  the  Institution  would  suffer, 
if  it  should  send  one  of  its  Professors  a  missionary  into  Boston. 
Why  cannot  they  go  on  with  Dr.  K.  ?  He  has  weight  enough  for 
all  Boston,  and  he  is  very  popular.  I  don't  indulge  such  hope, 
as  I  once  did,  that  Dr.  G.  will  come  to  Audover.  But  I  believe 
he  will  repent  if  he  does  not. 

What  do  you  hear  from  Gov.  Strong?  Were  not  my  time 
wholly  occupied,  I  would  most  joyfully  ride  to  Charlestown  this 
week.  But  I  cannot.  I  must  study,  study,  study,  or  my  de- 
ficiency will  be  known  to  all  men. 

Mrs.  W.  is  well.  We* unite  in  most  cordial  regards  to  Mrs.  M. 
and  yourself.  The  Lord  support  you  under  every  burden,  and 
help  you  in  every  duty.  We  must  look  for  rest  in  heaven.  There 
Jesus  found  it,  and  there  His  followers  will.  The  hope  is  cheer- 
ing. May  it  excite  us  all  to  useful  and  harmonious  exertion. 

Write  soon  to  your  ever  mindful,  grateful,  but  unworthy 
friend  and  brother, 

L.  WOODS. 

From  Dr.  Griffin  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWARK,  N.  J.,  Oct.  17,  1808. 

REV.  AND  DEAR  SIR, — Your  obliging  letter,  so  full  of  affection 
and  solicitude,  came  in  on  Friday  last,  as  did  your  favor  of  the 
7th  inst.  a  few  days  before.  I  feel  for  you  and  for  my  friends  in 
Boston  under  the  present  embarrassed  state  of  affairs,  and  I  wish 
with  all  rny  heart  that  it  was  within  my  power  to  afford  you  any 
relief.  But  really  I  know  not  what  to  say,  except  that  we  must 
submit  to  the  will  of  God.  I  have  attentively  watched  the  indi- 


APPENDIX.  615 

cations  of  His  providence.  We  have  both  prayed  that  His  will 
might  be  made  plain.  Why  then  should  we  shrink  from  the  light 
when  it  begins  to  shine  upon  the  path  of  duty  ?  The  cause  is 
God's  and  not  o\irs.  The  Lord  reigneth,  and  blessed  be  our 
eternal  rock. 

I  received  Dr.  Spring's  letter  at  the  same  moment  that  I  re- 
ceived yours  of  the  7th.  I  have  prepared  an  answer  to  it  by  this 
day's  mail,  which  I  believe  is  couched  in  "acceptable  words."  I 
thank  you  kindly  for  your  hint  on  that  subject.  It  reminds  me  of  a 
remark  of  Mr.  Hillyer  on  the  copy  of  my  last  letter  to  you,  made, 
however,  too  late  for  me  to  avail  myself  of  it.  He  feared  that 
said  letter  would  seem  abrupt,  and  impress  you  with  the  idea 
that  I  was  not  perfectly  satisfied  with  your  conduct,  and  he  was 
quite  apprehensive  that  you  would  suspect  him  of  not  doing  jus- 
tice to  the  verbal  message  with  which  you  had  intrusted  him.  I 
promised  the  good  man  that  I  would  do  away  every  such  im- 
pression by  assuring  you  that  he  delivered  your  message  and 
plead  your  cause  with  great  candor  and  fidelity,  that  the  letter  in 
question  was  written  under  an  unabated  sense  of  your  friendship 
and  kindness.  I  beg  for  his  sake  as  well  as  rny  own  that  you  will 
accept  this  assurance. 

You  propose  two  alterations  in  the  place  of  the  contemplated 
union.  I  thank  you  for  your  friendly  solicitude,  but  you  must 
permit  me  to  say  that  neither  of  thejn  is  satisfactory.  Of  the 
two,  however,  that  which  proposes  a  connection  with  the  school, 
with  the  privilege  of  residing  at  Boston  in  the  winter,  and  preach- 
ing without  being  installed,  is,  as  things  now  appear,  perhaps  the 
least  exceptionable.  But  I  dare  not  give  the  smallest  encourage- 
ment. I  cannot  say  it  is  probable. 

It  may  be  not  unsatisfactory  to  you  to  know  the  tenor  of  my 
answer  to  Dr.  Spring.  I  will  therefore  give  you  as  large  an  ex- 
tract from  it  as  the  sheet  will  contain.  It  follows — "  I  am  sorry 
that  it  is  not  in  my  power  to  comply  with  your  wishes  and  those 
of  your  generous  founder.  Your  object  and  views  are  of  so  ex- 
cellent a  nature,  that  I  cannot  without  deep  regret  cross  any  of 
your  plans  or  disappoint  your  expectations.  But  if  you  will  please 
to  advert  to  the  6th  and  7th  objections  stated  in  my  former  letter 
and  which  contained  nothing  but  solemn  matter  of  fact,  you  will 
perceive  that  Mrs.  Griffin's  state  of  health  precludes  the  possibility 
of  accepting  my  appointment,  when  the  two  contemplated  stations 
are  disjoined.  Whatever  inclinations,  therefore,  I  may  have  to 
assist  in  the  execution  of  your  laudable  plans,  the  irresistible  veto 
of  Providence  is  put  upon  my  zeal.  I  was  aware  that  some  serious 


61  6       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

difficulties  must  be  encountered  in  an  attempt  to  unite  the  two 
objects;  but  I  was  induced  to  think  on  the  whole,  that  the  advan- 
tages of  the  union,  would  outweigh  the  disadvantages.  I  should 
not  for  a  moment  have  presumed  to  think  of  occupying  both  sta- 
tions, had  I  not  supposed  that,  instead  of  opposing,  they  would 
have  a  beneficial  influence  on  each  other.  I  did  believe  that  the 
practice  of  preaching  to  a  mixed  congregation  nominally  under 
my  own  charge  would  suggest  many  rules  for  composing  and 
delivering  sermons  to  enrich  my  lectures,  which  never  would 
occur  to  a  man  not  in  the  habit  of  preaching,  or  in  the  practice  of 
preaching  only  to  a  handful  of  pious  youth.  I  did  believe  that 
the  constant  practice  of  preaching  was  absolutely  necessary  to 
disclose  many  of  the  difficulties  to  be  surmounted,  dangers  to  be 
avoided,  and  expedients  to  be  resorted  to,  in  the  solemn  and  criti- 
cal work  of  preparing  and  presenting  matter  proper  for  the  pulpit. 
And  if  one  may  be  allowed  to  know  something  of  the  cast  and  oper- 
ations of  his  own  mind,  I  must  still  be  indulged  in  the  opinion, 
that  in  my  own  case,  whatever  might  be  in  the  case  of  another, 
a  connection  with  a  parish,  not  more  close  than  the  one  hereto- 
fore contemplated,  would  render  my  lectures  on  pulpit  eloquence 
richer  and  more  useful  to  the  Institution  than  though  my  whole 
time  was  engrossed  at  Andover." 

I  never  for  a  moment  had  the  idea  of  being  encumbered  with 
any  other  parochial  duties  than  those  of  the  pulpit,  which,  con- 
sidering the  number  of  sermons  I  have  on  hand,  I  suppose  need 
not  occupy  much  of  my  time,  and  would  not  occupy  more  than 
would  be  judged  necessary  to  fit  me  the  better  for  the  duties  of  a 
lecturer.  At  the  time  of  receiving  your  letter,  I  was  taking  meas- 
ures to  have  it  expressly  stipulated,  that  I  should  be  exempted 
from  all  other  services,  and  be  allowed  to  devote  even  the  season 
of  my  residence  in  Boston  to  study.  I  proceeded  then  to  state 
the  cogitations  which  had  passed  through  my  mind,  on  the  advan- 
tages of  my  being  installed,  and  on  the  importance  which  might 
be  rendered  to  the  school  by  Pastors  in  Boston  in  close  alliance 
with  that  Institution.  I  then  added,  "  I  venture  to  hope  that  by 
the  combined  exertions  of  the  Professors  and  Pastors,  under  God, 
Boston  might  in  time  be  gained,  and  with  it  Cambridge  College, 
to  serve  as  a  future  nursery  for  the  school  at  Andover."  I  went 
on  to  suggest  the  influence  which  I  had  supposed  the  establish- 
ment of  orthodoxy  in  Boston  if  an  obvious  part  of  the  same  plan 
would  have,  to  interest  the  public  in  favor  of  the  school  by  engag- 
ing them  in  favor  of  the  plan  generally.  I  observed  that  many 
letters  bringing  me  the  opinions  of  numerous  ministers  in  New 


APPENDIX.  617 

England  and  in  the  Presbyterian  Church  had  confirmed  me  in 
this  belief.  They  who  had  regarded  the  school  with  coolness, 
before  they  knew  of  the  Boston  object  are  now  warm  advocates 
for  it,  and  press  me  to  accept  my  appointment,  urging  as  the 
principal  motive  and  as  their  favorite  object,  the  good  to  be  done  by 
preaching  in  Boston.  I  dismissed  the  discussion  of  this  general 
subject  by  saying,  "I  regret  that  your  objection  to  the  union  was 
not  earlier  stated.  You  would  thus  have  prevented  the  disap- 
pointment which  will  now  be  felt  by  many  ministers  in  New  Eng- 
land and  in  the  Presbyterian  Church,  who  I  calculated  would  be 
among  the  most  efficient  friends  of  the  Institution.  What  effect 
this  defeat  of  a  favorite  expectation,  by  an  objection  brought  up 
at  this  late  hour  will  have  on  their  future  attachment  to  the  school 
it  is  not  for  me  to  decide." 

So  far  for  the  letter.  Here,  my  dear  friend,  I  must  leave  the 
business,  and  commit  it  wholly  to  Him  who  orders  all  things  in 
wisdom  and  goodness.  I  pray  you  to  present  me  affectionately 
to  my  friends  in  Boston,  and  with  Mrs.  Griffin's  love  to  Mrs.  Morse. 

I  am,  dear  sir,  affectionately  and  with  great  respect, 
Your  friend  and  obedient  servant, 

E.  D.  GRIFFIN. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

ANDOVER,  Oct.  22,  1808. 

BELOVED  FRIEND, — I  have  received  nothing  from  you  for  some 
time.  I  hope  ill  health  does  not  prevent  your  writing.  I  ascribe 
it  to  the  most  probable  cause, — a  multiplicity  of  engagements 
and  labors.  The  Lord  grant  that  your  days  may  not  be  short- 
ened by  this  constant  pressure  of  business.  May  He  help  you  to 
action,  and  support  you  in  it.  Dear  sir,  my  heart  is  with  you. 
My  affections  kindle  and  glow  when  I  think  of  you.  The  band 
which  unites  my  heart  to  yours  can  never  bo  broken.  Oh,  how 
happy  the  friendship  where  there  is  one  interest  and  one  will,  where 
confidence  is  mutual,  and  it  is  easy  and  delightful  to  open 
the  whole  heart;  where  no  event  can  ever  excite  suspicion,  where 
no  change  of  situation,  and  no  length  of  time  can  produce  cold- 
ness! Oh.  friendship,  pure,  cordial,  pious,  Christian  friendship; 
it  is  a  prelibation  of  heavenly  bliss ! 

To-day  we  have  admitted  the  thirteenth  student.  We  have 
just  set  out  in  a  course  of  instruction.  Our  young  men  generally 
appear  well;  some  very  well.  We  are  encouraged  highly.  Every- 
thing between  Dr.  P.  and  myself  is  most  happy.  Dr.  Spring  prayed, 


618       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

you  recollect,  that  we  might  be  a  lovely,  happy  pair.  I  wish  Li  j 
pra}rer  may  be  answered.  Dr.  P.  begins  to  appear  happy  in  his 
office. 

Mr.  Merrill  of  Middlebury  has  written  to  me.  They  think  of 
a  little  cheap  publication  in  that  place;  mean  to  make  large  ex- 
tracts from  Panophst,  which  they  hope  will  continue  a  standard 
work.  The  large  Panoplist,  Mr.  Merrill  hopes,  will  be  taken  by  the 
more  respectable  sort  in  Vermont.  But  he  expects  the  minor 
Panoplist  will  not  be  taken.  Their  little  cheap  thing  will  take  its 
place.  He  wished  me  to  hint  this  to  you. 

Dr.  Spring  is  still  active  for  the  Seminary.  Esqr.  Marsh  has 
signified  to  him  that  he  shall  do  something.  A  scholarship  or  two 
is  the  least  we  expect  from  him.  Can't  you  soon  do  something 
for  scholarships  in  Boston  and  Charlestown  by  subscription. 
Something  must  be  done.  Students  are  coming,  and  if  promising, 
must  be  received  and  supported.  If  the  first  three  weeks  give 
thirteen,  what  shall  we  have  by  and  by?  I  now  begin  to  feel 
what  a  great  work  is  before  me,  and  what  responsibility  my  office 
involves.  May  I  not  hope  that  God  who  has  put  me  here  will 
help  me?  I  cannot  do  without  His  grace.  I  must  have  more 
grace. 

Where  is  Mr.  Codman  ?  Have  you  heard  from  Dr.  Griffin  ? — 
from  Dr.  Dwight  ? — from  Gov.  Strong  ?  What  was  and  is  the  im- 
pression, after  the  open  discussion  on  Inauguration  Day  ?  What 
says  Boston  ? — Cambridge  ? — the  whole  circle  ?  I  am  not  anxious 
at  all,  but  you  know  'tis  natural  for  Yankees  to  ask,  What  news  ? 
If  we  can  have  the  good  young  men,  and  mind  our  business,  we 
need  not  fear. 

In  good  health,  and  with  love  and  esteem  to  you  and  Mrs. 
Morse,  in  which  Mrs.  Woods  very  heartily  joins, 

I  am,  dear  sir,  your  friend  and  fellow-laborer, 

L.  WOODS. 

p.  £ — I  hope  God  has  merciful  designs  respecting  your  sons, 
and  will  prepare  them  to  be  useful  in  Christ's  kingdom. 

From  Mr.  Bartlett  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBUBYPOBT,  Oct.  28,  1808. 

DEAK  SIR, — Dr.  Spring  has  lately  received  a  letter  from  Dr. 
Griffin,  the  purport  is; — that  he  cannot  come  to  Andover  as  a  Pro- 
fessor alone.  He  feels  his  usefulness  would  be  too  circumscribed, 
which  is  what  I  hope  I  have  no  desire  for.  I  am  willing,  and  I 


APPENDIX.  619 

have  often  said  that  to  you,  that  he  should  preach  where  and  when  he 
has  a  mind  to,  and  if  I  may  be  allowed  to  give  an  opinion,  I  be- 
lieve he  would  do  more  good  by  preaching  in  different  places, 
than  by  preaching  at  one  place  the  most  of  his  time.  For  I  think 
his  talent  in  preaching  is  excellent,  perhaps  equal  to  his  manner 
and  address.  I  think  the  doctrine  he  delivers  superior  to  the 
sermons  of  Whitfield,  who  certainly  did  much  in  instruction,  and  in 
reforming  people ;  and  he  shone  abundantly  more  by  his  itinerat- 
ing, than  he  would  had  he  been  a  preacher  to  a  solitary  society. 
I  have  a  most  ardent  desire  he  should  be  at  Andover.  I  am,  sir, 
with  respect, 

Your  humble  servant, 

WM.  BABTLETT. 

From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

ANDOVER,  Oct.  29,  1808. 

DEARLY  BELOVED  SIR, — Your  letter  by  Mr.  Farrar  is  interest- 
ing in  every  part.  I  have  so  many  things  to  say  respecting  Dr. 
Griffin  that  I  cannot  begin.  Only  I  must  say,  I  have  a  happy 
confidence  in  Him  who  doeth  all  things  after  the  counsel  of  His 
own  will.  You  have  seen  Dr.  Spring,  and  will  see  Dr.  Pearson. 
It  is  my  expectation,  that  their  views  and  yours  will  in  the  issue 
be  one;  and  that  such  a  plan  will  be  devised,  as  will  meet  the 
approbation  of  Dr.  Griffin. 

Respecting  the  subject  on  which  Mr.  Hazard  has  written,  I 
feel  as  I  have  felt.  And  if  my  desires  could  have  been  accom- 
plished, something  effectual  would  have  been  done  before  now. 
But  the  interesting  business  in  which  we  have  all  been  engaged, 
the  difficulties  which  have  constantly  met  us,  and  those  which 
still  remain,  have  occupied  our  whole  time,  and  called  for  all  our 
vigor.  The  present  state  of  things  is  such  in  some  respects,  as  to 
discourage  an  effort  which  in  other  circumstances  might  be  made 
with  success.  In  the  first  place,  our  funds  are  all  taken  up,  and 
more,  much  more  is  wanted.  Unless  more  be  soon  obtained  for 
the  support  of  scholars,  we  must  terminate  the  business  of  admis- 
sion, till  these  fourteen,  or  a  part  of  them,  finish  their  studies, 
which  will  not  be  probably  under  two  years.  Great  exertions 
must  be  made  for  this  purpose.  The  prospect  of  success  in  another 
object,  though  highly  important,  is  less  on  this  account.  Secondly, 
when  the  matter  of  scholarships  has  been  presented  as  in  an  ur- 
gent state,  Esqr.  A.  has  lately  told  me,  he  could  do  no  more  at 
present.  Besides  he  has  frequently  given  it  as  his  opinion,  that 


620       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

we  have  Professors  enough,  and  that  Mr.  Bartlett's  twenty  thou- 
sand dollars,  for  the  present,  had  better  be  used  for  scholars. 
Accordingly  he  has  expressed  a  wish  that  Dr.  Gr.  may  not  think 
of  coming  for  some  time. 

The  manner  in  which  you  speak,  "  of  saving  a  brother  alive, "- 
"  of  his  being  in  danger," — "  if  he  is  worth  preserving," — "  if  he  is  of 
no  further  use,"  etc.,  is  so  extremely  wounding  to  my  feelings  that  I 
know  not  how  to  reply.  Dear  sir,  dearest  friend  of  my  heart,  why 
should  you  even  admit  such  a  train  of  thought  ?  Why  use  lan- 
guage so  groundless  ?  Why  make  suppositions  so  contrary  to  the 
truth  of  things,  and  so  contrary  to  the  sincerest  thoughts  and 
feelings  of  every  one  who  belongs  to  the  hosts  of  your  friends? 
I  am  distressed.  I  cannot  read  your  expressions  again.  Accord- 
ing to  your  wish,  I  now  consume  the  part  of  the  letter  which  con- 
tains them.  My  heart  is  too  full  of  love  and  esteem  ever  to  take 
up  the  subject  in  such  a  light.  I  cannot  consent  for  a  moment  to 
view  my  dearest  friend,  my  brother,  my  father,  in  a  situation  which 
calls  for  compassion  and  assistance.  But  I  shall  deem  it  my  joy 
to  do  everything  which  friendship  can  prompt,  and  which  Heaven 
shall  render  practicable. 

I  long  to  see  you,  but  I  must  stick  to  my  business.  I  must  be 
with  my  dear  pupils.  I  MUST  be  in  my  study.  But  I  do  mean,  in 
the  course  of  a  few  weeks,  to  steal  away  to  Charlestown  one  night. 
I  hope  things  go  well  here.  Dr.  P.'s  exertions  and  his  usefulness 
will  answer,  if  not  surpass,  our  highest  calculations.  All  concerned 
in  the  Institution  appear  very  happy.  Mr.  French  is  kindness  and 
goodness  itself. 

Accept  our  united  love;  to  which  Mrs.  Morse  also  has  a  large 
claim.  The  Lord  be  with  you,  and  bless  your  house.  May  your 
sons  be  trees  of  renown  in  the  courts  of  the  Lord. 

Yours  truly, 

L.  WOODS. 

P.  8. — You  speak  of  sending  a  letter  from  Mr.'Storrs;  but  it 
did  not  come,  therefore  I  cannot  say  anything  on  the  subject. 
We  must  pick  out  the  likeliest  fellows. 

I  think  we  shall  take  some  more  of  your  books.  But  I  can't 
examine  the  matter  so  as  to  say  what  ones  now.  We  will  let  you 
know  soon. 


APPENDIX.  621 

From  Dr.  Griffin  to  L.  Woods. 

NEWARK,  N.  J.,  Nov.  26,  1808. 

MY  DEAB  BROTHEE, — Your  very  affectionate  and  acceptable 
letter  of  the  14th  inst.  was  received  on  Monday  the  20th.  Your 
apology  for  not  writing  sooner  is  perfectly  satisfactory,  as  is  your 
explanation  of  the  motives  which  have  actuated  your  opposition 
to  my  installment  in  Boston.  The  objection  arising  from  its  pro- 
ducing a  separation  of  one  half  of  the  pastoral  duties  from  the 
other,  had  not  struck  me  before;  and  I  confess,  it  appears  worthy 
of  serious  consideration.  I  do  not  know  but  it  ought  to  raise  a 
doubt  sufficiently  strong  to  prevent  the  measure  from  being  taken. 
I  never  have  positively  decided  that  an  installment  was  indispensa- 
ble; though  I  thought  it  probable  on  two  grounds.  The  first, 
which  I  have  sufficiently  explained  in  former  letters,  (which  I 
suppose  you  may  have  read,)  is  considerably  weakened  by  what 
you  have  suggested.  The  second,  which  rested  on  the  opinion 
of  my  friends  in  Boston,  can  be  removed  only  by  them. 

Your  letter  has  given  me  an  enlarged  view  of  the  importance 
of  the  Institution,  and  of  course,  of  the  Professorship  assigned  to 
me.  But  you  must  not  suppose  that  my  adherence  to  the  pastoral 
office  arose  from  an  idea  that  I  should  not  find  business  enough 
to  do  at  Andover  and  business  too  of  a  highly  important  nature. 
But  it  arose  from  a  belief  that  preaching  was  my  proper  work, 
preaching,  not  here  and  there,  but  statedly  to  one  congregation 
— and  that  too  under  circumstances  calculated  to  give  my  preach- 
ing the  best  effect.  I  also  believe  that  seclusion  at  Andover, 
though  highly  pleasing  in  itself,  and  happily  calculated  for  the 
greatest  improvement  of  every  other  Professor,  would  want  those 
excitements  which  would  be  essential  to  the  Professor  of  Pulpit 
Eloquence.  I  was  sensible  of  the  importance  of  spending  much 
time  in  private  with  the  students,  in  attending  to  their  composi- 
tion and  speaking.  But  I  did  believe  that  six  months  in  a  year 
devoted  to  these  private  duties,  with  the  advantages  derived  from 
acting  on  the  public  theatre  of  Boston,  would  be  of  more  service 
than  twelve  months,  with  a  mind  sunk  into  an  inanimate  state. 
From  the  knowledge  which  I  have  of  myself,  I  still  believe,  that 
I  should  make  a  most  miserable  (miserable  I  must  be  at  the  best) 
Professor  of  Pulpit  Eloquence,  if  confined  to  the  small  congrega- 
tion who  will  meet  in  your  chapel. 

You  allow,  my  dear  brother,  that  I  may  have  "  liberty  to  preach 
in  Boston,  or  elsewhere,  as  I  shall  judge  best."  But  how  will  this 
comport  with  my  being  "  principally  at  least,  the  preacher  of  the 


622       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

Institution  "  ?  You  allow  that  Mrs.  Griffin  may  "  reside  in  Boston, 
when  expedient,  whether  I  am  installed  as  pastor,  or  engaged  as 
preacher."  But  how  does  this  comport  with  your  Constitution, 
which  requires  every  Professor  to  reside  constantly  at  Andover, 
except  in  vacations  ? 

I  assure  you  there  is  no  pecuniary  difficulty  in  the  case.  Mr. 
Bartlett  has  lately  offered  me  more  than  I  could  expect.  I  should 
not  gain,  nor  do  I  wish  to  gain,  anything  of  this  nature,  by  a  con- 
nection with  Boston.  There  would,  indeed,  be  some  extra  expenses 
which  the  congregation  must  support.  If  this,  and  my  winter  res- 
idence at  Boston,  should  be  thought  not  to  contravene  your  Stat- 
utes, I  know  not  but  some  compromise  may  be  made. 

You  terrify  me  when  you  speak  of  adding  the  duties  of  another 
Professorship  to  my  department.  One  Professorship  would  be 
enough  in  all  conscience  for  me.  Two  would  render  me  useless 
in  both.  Besides  the  hint  awakens  fear  that  the  purpose  of  hav- 
ing five  Professors  is  relinquished.  Tell  me  if  it  be  so;  and  tell 
me,  my  brother,  how  often  I  should  be  expected  to  deliver  lec- 
tures. Detail  to  me,  if  you  please,  the  whole  order  of  the  school. 
It  is  Saturday  night  and  I  am  in  great  haste.  Please  to  present 
my  respects  to  Madam  Phillips  and  Mr.  Farrar,  my  love  to  Dr. 
and  Mrs.  Pearson,  and  to  Mrs.  Woods,  in  all  which,  as  well  as  in 
cordial  salutations  to  yourself,  Mrs.  Griffin  unites. 
I  am,  dear  sir, 

Your  affectionate  brother, 

E.  D.  GRIFFIN. 

From  Dr.  Spring  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBUBTPOBT,  Dec.  15,  1808. 

DEAR  BROTHER, — Yours  of  this  day  I  have  before  me.  Thank 
you  for  it.  "United  we  stand,  disunited  we  fall."  Mr.  B.  has 
given  Dr.  G.  his  ultimatum,  viz.,  twelve  hundred  annually,  his 
firewood,  the  use  of  a  house  and  situation  equal  to  what  he  enjoys 
at  Newark,  $500  to  gratify  his  convenience  or  fancy  about  the 
house  or  out-houses,  after  he  shall  have  completed  them,  and  the 
expense  of  removal.  This  is  ample ;  this  is  noble,  is  it  not  ?  But 
though  his  wife  and  family  (without  making  any  previous  words 
relative  to  it)  may  reside  where  it  may  be  most  convenient  and 
conducive  to  health,  the  Dr.  must  come  to  Andover,  as  his  ONLY 
OFFICIAL  ground.  Mr.  Bartlett  will  not  have  him  officially  divided. 
He  is,  however,  willing,  and  we  at  the  north  are  all  willing,  and  we 
wish  to  have  it  mutually  understood,  at  the  outset,  that  Dr.  Griffin 


APPENDIX.  623 

shall  spend  much  time  in  Boston,  and  do  you  and  Boston  friends 
more  good,  than  can  be  possibly  realized,  in  the  plan  of  opera- 
tion which  you  have  proposed. 

Thus  far  we  have  gone.  Dr.  Griffin  by  this  time  possesses  my 
communication:  and  he  will  come  and  bless  us  all,  ALL,  if  you  will 
with  your  influence  coincide.  I  beg  and  pray  of  you  and  your  Boston 
friends  to  do  so,  and  Dr.  G.  will  be  pleased.  If  not  the  whole  affair, 
must  be  relinquished.  God  forbid  that  we  shall  lose  the  promis- 
ing object,  by  grappling  at  what  mortals  cannot  obtain.  You  will 
concur;  and  if  Dr.  Griffin  needs  your  concurrence  to  ease  his  mind, 
pray  give  it  without  hesitation.  This  is  the  way  to  effect  what 
you  wish.  Take  our  love  and  give  it  to  dear  Mrs.  Morse. 

S.  SPUING. 

From  Dr.  Spring  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBUBYPOBT,  Dec.  16,  1808. 

DEAE  BROTHER, — Please  to  read  the  enclosed1  first.  I  have 
seen  the  Review.  It  is  well  done,  but  it  is  feeble  fight.  For  it 
has  correctly  proved  that  Calvinists  and  Hopkinsians  are  the 
genuine  legitimate  offspring  of  the  same  parent;  and  that  it  is 
foolish  and  wicked  for  them  to  contend.  It  has  proved  that  the 
coalition  had  eyes  and  judgment  to  see  and  judge  rightly.  It 
has  proved  that  we  all  have  the  Bible  on  our  side  when  we  de- 
part from  several  answers  in  the  Catechism.  The  transfer  of 
sin,  the  sin  of  Adam,  and  the  transfer  of  Christ's  righteousness 
are  scholastic  nonsense  and  jargon.  We  are  personally  guilty  and 
only  so,  though  we  should  not  have  sinned  if  Adam  had  continued 
innocent.  And  we  are  justified  on  account  of,  and  for  the  sake 
of  Christ's  righteousness.  I  have  and  will  be  kind  to  your 
children  for  the  sake  of  their  parents;  but  if  I  hate  the  lovely 
children,  because  their  parents  are  hateful,  common  sense  will 
curse  me  forever.  I  hope  no  notice  will  be  taken  of  that  Review. 
Silence  at  present  is  an  ample  answer  to  the  low  and  base  de- 
signs of  the  authors.  They  have  no  reason,  and  they  shall  have 
none,  to  depreciate  Calvinists  because  they  love  Hopkinsians. 
But  before  long  we  will  take  these  men  of  Succoth,  and  treat 
them  with  the  thorns  and  briars  of  the  wilderness,  good  manners. 
Pray  if  you  must  write  soon  to  Dr.  Griffin,  press  him  to  come  on 
agreeably  to  Mr.  Bartlett's  communication.  So  it  must  be;  and 
all  will  be  well.  But  if  we  pursue  any  other  plan  we  are  undone. 
The  path  of  consistency  is  the  path  of  duty.  If  you  will  let  us 
1  That  is,  Dec.  15. 


624       HISTORY  OF  ANDOVER   THEOLOGICAL   SEMINARY. 

keep  the  road  we  shall  enter  the  strong  fortress;  but  if  we  leave 
the  road  and  cross  lots,  we  shall  lose  all,  and  plunge  into  inevitable 
evils.  The  Lord  direct  us  all. 

From  your  friend  and  brother, 

S.  SPRING. 

P.  S. — Please  to  send  me  eight  of  the  statute  pamphlets.  I 
have  had  none. 

From  Dr.  Griffin  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWARK,  N.  J.,  Dec.  19,  1808. 

REV.  AND  DEAK  SIR, — The  die  is  cast;  the  long  idle  game  is 
closed,  and  whoever  is  the  winner  I  am  not; — I  hope  I  am  no 
loser.  The  same  mail  which  brought  your  letter  of  the  13th 
brought  me  one  from  Dr.  Spring  of  the  12th,  which  has  done  the 
business  to  purpose.  Having  found  that  there  were  some  ma- 
terials in  my  composition  capable  of  yielding  to  the  pressure  of 
a  friend,  he  seemed  to  take  it  for  granted  that  I  was  all  wax. 
Like  a  good  Christian,  therefore,  after  giving  me  some  wholesome 
lessons  on  "modesty,"  "humility,"  and  "prudence,"  he  plainly 
told  me,  that  I  must  give  up,  in  toto,  all  connection  with  Boston, 
otherwise,  says  he,  "we  cannot  encourage  you  to  leave  Newark." 
"The  Boston  object,"  adds  he,  "must  be  relinquished!"  As  to 
my  holding  even  the  loose  connection  with  Boston  which  was 
proposed  last,  he  says,  "  It  must  not  be  done."  The  consequence 
was,  that  I  took  the  liberty  to  seat  myself  in  my  chair,  and  with- 
out the  least  delay  wrote  him  the  following  answer — 

NEWAEK,  N.  J.,  Dec.  17,  1808. 

REV.  AND  DEAR  SIR, — Your  favor  of  the  12th  inst.  has  been  just 
now  received.  Wm.  Bartlett  adds  new  proofs  of  his  kindness  and 
generosity  every  time  I  hear  from  him.  The  request  that  I  would 
send  him  the  plan  of  a  house  is  very  obliging,  and  I  might  be  in- 
duced to  comply,  were  there  any  prospect  of  my  ever  occupying 
a  house  at  Andover.  That  prospect  I  am  compelled  to  say  has 
vanished  since  the  arrival  of  your  letter.  My  private  feelings  would 
be  gratified  with  the  retirement  at  Andover  unconnected  with  a 
more  public  station,  rather  than  with  the  united  objects.  But  my 
conscience  gives  me  a  law  which  is  not  to  be  broken. 

Possibly  I  might  do  more  good  at  Andover,  than  I  shall  ever 
do  at  Newark.  But  this  does  not  determine  my  duty.  Another 
may  do  that  good  at  Andover  who  would  not  enjoy  equal  advari- 


APPENDIX.  625 

tages  to  be  useful  here.  I  know  not  that  the  union  of  the  two 
objects  is  expedient  or  even  practicable.  I  leave  wiser  men  to 
think  of  that.  But  this  I  know,  that  if  it  be  not  practicable  and 
expedient,  my  duty  is  plain.  It  may  be  best  for  the  school,  for  the 
Professor  of  Pulpit  Eloquence  to  be  confined  to  Andover,  but  if  it 
be,  I  am  not  the  man  to  bear  that  title.  This  has  been  my  uni- 
form opinion  from  the  first.  I  have  had  no  change  of  impression. 
I  have  never  expressed,  myself  doubtfully  on  this  point.  I  have 
pursued  one  consistent  and  uniform  course.  I  shall  still  pursue 
it.  Be  assured,  dear  sir,  that  I  have  not  been  trifling  with  you  in 
what  I  have  said  from  the  beginning.  I  know  how  to  respect 
you  and  the  gentlemen  concerned  with  you,  and  the  object  you 
are  pursuing,  too  well  to  admit  of  such  conduct. 

It  only  remains  for  me  to  request  you  and  the  other  three 
gentlemen,  to  whom  I  made  that  unfortunate  promise,  to  grant 
•me  permission  to  give  my  final  answer.  This,  I  think,  I  have  a 
right  to  expect.  The  understanding  was,  that  I  should  delay 
only,  till  the  whole  business  could  be  laid  before  me.  That  has 
now  been  done.  I  cannot  consent  to  have  my  mind  longer 
agitated  with  the  matter.  It  can  be  of  no  avail.  I  am  well 
assured  that  I  shall  not  alter  my  purpose.  I  beseech  you  let  this 
be  the  last  letter  but  one  that  I  shall  ever  have  occasion  to  write 
on  this  subject. 

I  wish  you  entire  success  in  your  benevolent  undertaking  with 
all  my  heart.  I  tender  to  you  and  Mr.  Bartlett  my  respects  and 
gratitude. 

Thus  you  see,  my  dear  friend,  that  I  have  done  with  Andover. 
I  make  no  remarks  on  the  manner  in  which  this  business  has 
been  conducted.  It  has  issued,  as  every  business  conducted  in 
this  manner,  must. 

The  settlement  of  Mr.  Codman  is  an  important  event.  The 
prospect  in  regard  to  Mr.  Holly  and  Dr.  Kollock  is  also  highly 
interesting.  Brother  K.'s  answer  is  better  than  I  expected.  I 
hope  God  has  great  blessings  in  reserve  for  Boston. 

I  have  this  day  written  to  Dr.  Miller  on  the  subject  of  the 
Review.  I  had  before  sent  him  my  thoughts  in  regard  to  it.  The 
gentlemen  in  New  York  must  do  the  rest. 

Mrs.  Griffin  'unites  in  the  most  cordial  and  respectful  saluta- 
tions to  Mrs.  Morse  and  yourself  with,  dear  sir, 

Your  affectionate  friend  and  obedient  servant, 

E.  D.  GKIFFIN. 


626      HISTORY  OF  ANDOVER   THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 


From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

ANDOVEB,  Dec.  27,  1808. 

MY  DEAR  SIR, — I  did  not  receive  yours  of  the  24th  before  to-day. 
The  contents  are  very  interesting.  As  I  could  not  go  to  Salem 
to-day  to  attend  the  funeral  of  the  dear  Mr.  Norris,  on  account 
of  health  and  other  urgent  reasons,  I  persuaded  Mr.  Farrar  to 
go  this  afternoon,  soon  after  receiving  your  letter,  for  the  purpose 
of  seeing  Dr.  S.,Dr.  P.  and  Mr.  Bartlett  together  this  evening.  I 
gave  him  my  letter  from  you, — he  likewise  took  the  one  to  Dr.  P. 
I  told  Mr.  F.  before  he  went  my  feelings,  as  to  the  vast  import- 
ance of  obtaining,  and  the  danger  of  losing  Dr.  G-.  His  feelings 
are  coincident  with  ours  on  that  subject.  I  told  him  my  mind 
was  greatly  agitated.  I  hope  they  will  have  wisdom  from  above. 
I  do  not  despair  yet.  Somebody,  I  think,  must  go  on  and  see  Dr. 
G-.  without  delay.  The  result  of  this  evening's  interview,  you  will 
know  soon.  Let  us  trust  in  Him  who  has  helped  us.  The  cause 
is  His.  He  will  not  forsake  it,  nor  give  it  over  to  the  enemy. 
Let  us  guard  against  offending  Him  by  unbelief.  Let  us  try  to 
reduce  to  practice  the  words  of  the  Prophet,  "  He  that  believeth 
shall  not  make  haste."  It  does  not  forbid  vigilance,  activity,  and 
zeal;  but  it  does  forbid  impatience,  and  perturbation  of  mind, 
and  despondency  in  consequence  of  dark  appearances. 

I  have  read  Brother  "Worcester's  strictures  with  much  pleasure. 
He  has  done  WELL,  especially  considering  the  shortness  of  the 
time,  etc. 

I  have  written  to  Dr.  Lyman  in  the  spirit  in  which  we  con- 
versed. I  have  proposed  a  Professorship  for  Ecclesiastical  His- 
tory, Scholarships,  Library,  and  building  for  Chapel,  etc.  I  stated 
the  peculiar  and  most  inviting  things  pertaining  to  each;  leaving 
it  to  Dr.  L.  and  his  friend  to  come  in  at  any  of  the  doors  which 
are  open. 

Mr.  Norris's  death  is  a  great  breach.  But  God  can  supply 
it.  Let  us  look  to  Him. 

If  the  Boston  gentlemen  unite  Christian  love  and  condescen- 
sion with  zeal,  I  yet  have  hope.  We  must  pray  more  and  contend 
less. 

Accept  our  united  love  and  good  wishes,  for  yourself  and 
family.  The  Lord  grant  health  and  composure  to  your  amiable 
wife.  The  Lord  be  her  refuge  and  strength,  and  fill  both  your 
hearts  with  joy  and  praise.  Let  me  hear  from  you  soon. 

Yours  in  sincerity, 

L.  WOODS. 


APPENDIX.  627 


From  L.  Woods  to  Dr.  Morse. 

ANDOVER,  Dec.  28,  1808. 

MY  DEAR  AND  LONO-TRIED  FRIEND, — I  know  I  can  address  you 
with  perfect  freedom.  I  have  no  fear  of  jour  putting  a  wrong 
construction  upon  what  I  write.  What  is  done  between  us,  is 
done  "in  simplicity  and  sincerity."  Let  it  be  so  forever.  I 
write  now  late  at  night  and  desirous  to  rest,  because  I  perceive 
your  mind  has  been  much  agitated  since  I  left  you.  I  sympathize 
with  you,  I  long  to  bear  part  of  your  burden.  The  state  of  things 
respecting  Dr.  G.  is  distressing.  But,  my  dear  sir,  I  entreat  you 
not  to  let  any  personal  feelings,  respecting  any  one,  to  lodge  in 
your  heart.  Let  us  believe,  candor  requires  us  to  believe  that 
men  whom  we  have  long  known,  whose  uprightness  we  have  long 
proved,  have  not  suddenly  changed,  and  become  opposite  in 
principle  to  what  they  were.  Your  feelings  respecting  Dr.  P.  are 
as  wrong  as  they  possibly  can  be.  There  is  nothing  in  his  heart, 
there  has  been  nothing,  voluntary,  in  his  practice,  which  can 
justify  your  suspicion.  Depend  upon  it,  my  dear  Dr.  Morse,  de- 
pend on  it,  you  mistake  exceedingly.  To  observe  such  emotions 
in  you  towards  one,  whom  I  know  to  be  your  friend,  one  of  your 
best  friends,  wounds  me  to  the  heart,  and  brings  tears  from  my 
eyes.  Time  will  show  you,  eternity  will  show  you  that  Dr.  P.  is 
as  he  was.  And  there  has  been  nothing  but  a  small  difference  of 
judgment,  respecting  the  mode  of  union.  You  know  Dr.  P.  will 
always  speak  and  act,  as  he  thinks.  He  ought  to.  If  he  has  been 
unhappy  in  the  manner,  I  pray  you  forgive  him.  It  is  not  the 
first  time  we  have  been  called  to  forgive  and  forbear  one  another 
in  this  momentous  business.  I  thought  I  left  you  comfortable 
in  your  feelings  towards  Dr.  P.  But  your  last  letter  to  him  shows 
your  feelings  are  returned.  Dear  sir,  I  could  willingly  lie  down 
and  let  you  trample  me  under  your  feet  rather  than  that  you 
should  have  such  ideas  fixed  in  your  mind.  You  are  agitated  too 
much.  Your  sensibilities  are  too  high  and  you  will  see  it  by  and 
by  on  reflection.  Oh  sir,  we  are  engaged  in  too  great  matters, 
to  fall  out  among  ourselves.  I  know  not  what  to  do  or  what  to 
say.  If  the  seeds  of  alienation  and  suspicion  are  sown  among  our- 
selves, it  will  do  more  hurt  than  all  our  enemies.  Dr.  P.  will 
write  to  you  and  visit  you.  Heaven  grant  your  feelings  may  be 
relieved;  they  certainly  will,  if  Dr.  P.  talks  and  appears  to  you  as 
to  me. 

I  congratulate  you  and  Mrs.  Morse.  May  the  dear  daughter 
be  spared  and  be  a  rich  gift  to  parents  and  the  world. 


628       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

I  cannot  close  without  begging  you  to  forgive  me  this  freedom 
and  importunity.  My  heart  is  full.  I  must  write  as  I  feel;  which 
is  that  your  emotions  are  taking  a  wrong  direction,  and  tending 
to  a  wrong  issue.  If  you  are  suspicious  of  Dr.  P.  you  may  as  well 
be  suspicious  of  all  your  friends  on  earth.  Write  soon;  forgive 
this  which  comes  from  a  heart  of  unalterable  love;  burn  it,  and 
never  cease  to  love  and  pray  for  the  writer, 

L.  WOODS. 

From  Dr.  Spring  to  Dr.  Morse. 

NEWBURYPOBT,  Jan.  14.  1809. 

REV.  AND  DEAR  BROTHER, — We  most  cordially  sympathise  and 
condole  with  you  and  your  dear  lady.  Your  loss  is  great.  We 
hope  and  trust  that  you  feel  the  advantage  of  affliction.  Shall  we 
not  all  realize  this  truth,  that  adversity  is  better  for  God's  chil- 
dren than  prosperity.  We  both  wish  you  and  lady  and  children 
the  Divine  blessing. 

The  die  is  cast  relative  to  Dr.  Griffin.  Mr.  Bartlett  has  received 
his  ultimatum  and  the  Dr.  has  received  Mr.  Bartlett's  ultimatum. 
Mutual  conditions,  as  I  understand  them  both  are  fixed.  No  In- 
stallment. The  Dr.  has  liberty  to  reside  at  Boston  a  third  part  of 
the  year,  on  account  of  Mrs.  G-.'s  feeble  state  of  body;  and  also  to 
preach  at  Boston  and  other  places  one  half  of  the  Sabbaths  in  the 
year,  on  condition  of  complying  with  the  duties  of  the  Seminary. 
Have  we  discovered  ample  condescension.  You  will  be  satisfied, 
and  good  people  in  Boston  will  not  complain  whatever  may  be 
said  by  others  who  are  peculiarly  emulous.  Dear  brother,  now 
let  your  influence  go  into  the  scale  of  conciliation.  Please  to 

write  me  your  last  from  Dr.  Kollock,  the  present  state  of 

as  to  the  rising  society.  We  shall  all  feel  deeply  interested  in 
their  prosperity.  Tell  the  leaders  from  poor  me,  that  they  must 
recommence,  that  they  must  lay  the  foundation  of  their  house  con- 
tiguous with  the  Seminary  Chapel.  They  must  help  us  and  we  must 
help  them,  by  every  laudable  measure.  God  bless  them  and  make 
them  prosper  by  exercising  the  meekness  of  wisdom.  I  hope 
they  will  not  aim  at  great  things,  but  let  them  come  in,  in  conse- 
quence of  not  seeking  them.  Please  to  accept  and  make  our  re- 
spectful love  to  Mrs.  Morse. 

From  your  friend  and  brother, 

S.  SPRING. 


APPENDIX.  629 

From  Dr.  Griffin  to  L.  Woods. 

•    NEWARK,  N.  J.,  March  27,  1809. 

MY  DEAR  BROTHER, — Your  letter  to  Mr.  Thurston,  which  he 
did  not  fail  to  enclose,  gave  me  entire  satisfaction.  Did  you  ever 
see  the  slander  against  you,  contained  in  one  of  my  letters  to  Dr. 
Morse  ?  But  it  is  every  word  of  it  true.  You  are  the  hardest 
antagonist  I  ever  had  to  encounter.  There  is  something  that  you 
bring  with  you  that  one's  heart  cannot  resist,  and  there  is  no  way 
of  breaking  from  you.  And  so  I  yield  your  willing  captive. 

I  am  perfectly  satisfied  with  the  explanations  which  come  from 
every  quarter,  of  all  doubts  that  have  arisen,  and  of  all  measures 
that  have  been  taken.  I  never  for  a  moment  doubted  that  every 
person  concerned  was  actuated  by  the  best  regard  for  my  happi- 
ness and  usefulness,  as  well  as  for  the  interest  of  the  Institution. 
But  there  was  a  difficulty  concealed,  which  grew  in  the  dark  before 
the  eye  of  imagination,  until  it  was  as  large  as  any  spectre  which 
fancy  ever  engendered.  But  your  letter,  with  the  aid  of  others 
lately  received,  has  effectually  laid  the  Ghost.  Not  a  disagreeable 
impression  remains  on  my  mind.  I  see  the  Institution  and  the 
congregation  already  in  a  warm  embrace,  and  a  large  progeny  of 
delightful  effects  springing  up  around  them. 

Under  this  date  I  have  given  my  answers  to  the  Trustees,  and  to 
the  congregation.  That  to  the  Trustees  you  will  perceive  was  dic- 
tated by  your  letter  to  Mr.  Thurston.  I  thank  you  for  the  hint. 

In  case  I  have  a  seasonable  and  favorable  answer  from  the 
Trustees,  I  hope  to  be  with  you  in  May.  My  dear  brother,  I 
want  you  should  tell  me  whether  there  is  any  nearer  route  from 
Worcester  to  Andover  than  by  Boston  or  Cambridge ;  and  whether 
the  road  be  perfectly  good  for  a  chaise.  If  there  be  such  a  road, 
at  what  point  does  it  leave  the  great  road  to  Boston?  Take  good 
care,  my  brother,  that  you  don't  remember  to  forget  this  request; 
for  I  see  you  have  a  talent  that  way,  when  you  find  it  convenient 
to  exercise  it. 

Tell  me  too,  if  you  please,  whether  you  have  yet  fixed  your 
vacations,  and  at  what  season  or  seasons  of  the  year.  If  they  be 
not  yet  fixed,  I  think  that  something  may  depend  upon  fixing 
them  right.  It  seems  desirable  that  the  Professors  should  travel 
at  a  time  when  they  will  have  the  best  opportunity  to  see  large 
numbers  of  the  clergy  together. 

I  have  been  making  interest  for  the  school,  as  much  as  I  could, 
and  collecting  information,  ever  since  my  return  from  the  east- 
ward. The  result  of  my  inquiries,  I  have  taken  the  liberty  to  sug- 


630       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

gest  to  Dr.  Spring.     I  beg  leave  to  recommend  to  your  attention 
some  of  the  hints  contained  in  that  letter. 

I  rejoice  at  the  number  of  the  students  which  are  collected 
around  you;  I  hope  to  add  three  to  the  number  when  I  come. 

Every  day  brings  new  evidence  that  I  have  decided  right.  I 
trembled  for  the  fate  of  this  congregation.  They  themselves 
thought  that  they  were  rained.  But  I  felt  confidence  that 
God  would  provide  for  them  if  it  was  His  will  to  take  me  away. 
So  it  seems  about  to  hapDen.  After  weeping  one  week,  they  have 
tui":?d  thei-i  eyes  to  the  man  of  my  choice, — a  much  better  man 
than  they  have  lately  had;  and  from  present  appearances  I  judge 
that  a  call,  nearly  unanimous,  will  be  presented  to  him  on  the  day 
that  I  am  dismissed.  I  believe  in  my  heart,  that  they  are  the 
kindest  and  best  people  (except  those  at  Newbury,)  that  ever  a  min- 
ister voluntarily  left.  Some  few  sons  of  Belial  there  are,  whose 
malice  is  scarcely  exceeded  by  that  of  the  lower  world.  But  their 
number  is  small,  and  their  influence  nothing.  Indeed,  for  the 
most  part,  they  do  not  belong  to  the  congregation.  But  'tis  in 
vain  to  mourn  or  look  back;  my  business  is  before  me.  I  wish  to 
leave  all  my  tears  behind  and  have  nothing  but  smiles  to  present 
to  you  and  dear  Mrs.  Woods  when  we  meet.  Mrs.  Griffin  loves 
you  both  already,  and  will  love  you  better  soon.  She  joins  in  af- 
fectionate salutations  to  you  both,  with  your  own  brother, 

E.  D.  GRIFFIN. 

P.  S. — Mr.  Bartlett  mentioned  a  man  and  woman  he  had  engaged 
to  keep  the  house.  If  they  are  not  likely  to  stay  or  to  answer  for 
us,  will  Mrs.  Woods  have  the  goodness  to  be  looking  out  for  a 
girl  for  Mrs.  G.  and  will  you  be  so  good  as  to  look  out  for  a  man 
for  me.  Perhaps  those  two  will  stay. 

From  Mr.  Paul  Couch  to  L.  Woods. 

NEWBUBYPOKT,  June  19,  1809. 

REV.  AND  DEAR  SIR, — You  have  engaged  more  or  less  of  my 
thoughts  in  my  devotional  hours  ever  since  I  had  the  honor  and 
happiness  of  your  acquaintance.  But  more  especially  since  Di- 
vine Providence  hath  exalted  you  to  the  very  important  post  which 
you  now  improve.  Your  responsibility  was  great  before,  it  is  now 
infinitely  increased.  If  your  responsibility  was  great,  while  you 
supported  and  honored  the  character  of  a  reaper  in  the  vineyard 
of  the  Lord,  what  must  it  be  now  you  are  called  to  furnish 
and  prepare  those  "  beautiful  feet  which  shall  bring  glad  tidings, 


APPENDIX.  631 

and  those  tongues  of  the  learned  which  shall  say  unto  Zion,  Thy 
God  reigneth." 

Your  pupils,  dear  sir,  are  little  angels  looking  up  to  you  for 
wings.  I  am  consent  you  will  give  them  wings  (not  of  wax)  but 
of  truth,  solid,  durable  truth,  from  that  pure  Hopkinsian  fountain 
the  Bible.  With  such  wings  they  will  be  able  to  fly,  and  they  will 
fly,  through  the  midst  of  heaven,  and  no  opposition  shall  by  any 
means  impede  or  interrupt  their  progress,  "for  the  truth  is  great 
above  all  things  and  shall  prevail."  To  the  church  and  the  world 
they  will  declare  "  all  the  words  of  this  life."  They  "  will  preach 
Christ  and  Him  crucified,  und  they  will  be  determined  to  know 
nothing  else";  for  this  will  the  Lord  "train  them  up  in  the  way 
they  ought  to  go  and  they  never  will  depart  from  it."  Moses,  al- 
though he  was  so  highly  favored  of  God,  yet  he  greatly  felt  the  need 
of  Hobab.  Accordingly  he  says  to  his  father-in-law,  "  Thou  knowest 
how  we  are  to  encamp  in  the  wilderness  and  thou  mayest  be  to 
us  instead  of  eyes."  So,  dear  sir,  I  doubt  not  you  feel  with  respect 
to  your  very  dear  and  much  loved  friend,  the  Rev.  Dr.  Spring. 
Much  thought,  continual  trials,  and  much  experience  hath  made 
him  exceeding  wise.  So  that  you  may  very  properly  say  to  him 
when  courting  his  influence, — "  thou  knowest  how  I  have  to  en- 
camp in  the  wilderness,  that  there  is  much  opposition  and  great 
trials;  and  thou  shalt  be  to  me  instead  of  eyes." — I  feel  it  very  im- 
portant that  you  and  he  should  be  united  in  the  most  strong  and 
solemn  manner.  That  you  should  be  one  in  head,  heart  and  ex- 
ertions. You  know,  sir,  that  Dr.  Spring  has  been  for  a  great  while 
obliged  to  oppose  a  violent  stream  almost  alone.  I  feel  confident 
that  if  you  pull  with  him,  great  good  must  be  done,  and  you  will 
be  victorious.  "  Two  are  better  than  one,"  and  your  united  exer- 
tions will  rid  the  church  of  all  this  half -way  trumpery,  this  limy 
woolsy  stuff  which  hath  so  long  marred  its  beauty  and  perfection. 
I  pray  you  may  duly  feel  the  great  responsibility  imposed  upon 
you,  of  uniting  your  exertions  with  his,  in  purging  the  church  of 
their  "  half  Israel  and  half  Ashdod  speakers,"  and  that  you  may 
be  instrumental  of  restoring  to  the  church  "a  pure  language." 
I  pray  that  God  would  fill  you  with  light  and  love — give  you  to 
be  faithful  and  independent,  that  you  may  call  no  man  father,  any 
further  than  you  know  them  to  be  followers  of  Christ.  Pardon  my 
presumption  in  writing.  I  do  feel  strongly,  and  I  wanted  you  to 
know  it.  You  will  remember  me  in  your  prayers,  for  the  hand  of 
the  Lord  is  yet  heavy  upon  me.  Please  to  make  my  respects  to 
Mrs.  Woods. 

Yours  most  affectionately, 

PAUL  COUCH. 


632       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

From  Dr.  Spring  to  L.  Woods. 

NEWBUBYPOBT,  Nov.  21,  1809. 

DEAR  BROTHER, — Twice  I  have  written  to  brother  Stuart;  but 
modesty  forbids  an  answer.  Never,  Brother  Woods,  have  I  felt 
more  concerned  for  the  Seminary.  Never  felt  so  deeply  the  ne- 
cessity of  that  covenant  of  Salt.  Never  was  I  more  afraid  of  that 
settlement  between  you  and  Mr.  D.  It  was  designed  to  give  his 

F r  his  usual  influence,  which  is  dangerous,  because  he  does 

not  merit  it.  His  finger  may  not  direct  our  object. 

While  sitting  at  the  common  tablA  the  other  morning  in  the 
hall,  one  of  the  prominent  geniuses  said  to  me — "  It  is  time  that 
the  Hopkinsian  name  be  done  away."  I  have  really  feared,  (and 
you  may  style  me  what  you  please)  that  the  expression  was  bor- 
rowed from  a  Professor.  I  am  no  prophet,  but  with  deep  solem- 
nity I  say,  that  the  intelligent  preacher,  who  is  unwilling  to  be 
styled  a  Hopkinsian,  or  rather  who  is  ashamed  of  the  name  or  the 
distinction,  loves  the  praise  of  men.  For  the  name  cannot  be 
done  away  without  doing  away  with  the  edge  and  the  most 
prominent  face  of  truth.  Every  Christian  is  at  heart  a  Hopkin- 
sian or  a  consistent  Calvmist.  Theologians  ought  to  be  Hopkinsians 
in  their  brains,  if  they  have  any.  Surely  your  young  men  of  ability 
ought  to  be  indulged  with  the  best  means  to  travel  on  in  the  path 
of  disquisition  to  the  "  ne  plus  "  of  the  argument  with  Arminians. 
I  insist  upon  it,  that  no  man  except  a  thorough-going  Hopkinsian 
is  able  with  advantage  to  meet  an  argumentative,  subtle  Ar- 
minian.  And  shall  your  able- students  be  deficient.  The  doctrines 
of  vicarious  suffering,  of  unreserved  submission,  of  the  Divine 
efficiency,  and  the  doctrine  of  means  when  used  and  abused,  and 
the  necessity  of  contrast,  must  be  inculcated  with  line  upon  line, 
and  they  will  be  digested  by  every  real  divine.  But,  brother, 
be  not  soon  displeased  with  your  old  friend.  For  though  I 
thus  speak,  I  have  better  thoughts  of  your  faithfulness  and  ability 
as  a  theological  teacher  than  to  deem  that  you  will  suffer  students 
of  divinity  to  slide  out  of  your  hands  but  half-formed  divines  in 
reference  to  cardinal  principles  and  points.  You  will  do,  since 
the  leading  influence  of  the  College  has  wonderfully  fallen  into 
your  hands  and  Dr.  Griffin's,  what  I  expected,  and  what  your 
covenant  of  Salt  engaged,  when  I  yielded  to  the  coalition.  For 
if  the  coalition  shall  not  make  as  many  Hopkinsian  Calvinists  as 
the  Associates  had  full  advantage  to  raise  up  in  spite  of  all  op- 
position, the  promised  ground  is  comparatively  lost  in  our  day, 
to  say  nothing  of  futurity.  You  know  that  I  am  not  very  partial 


APPENDIX.  633 

to  indiscreet  Hopkinsians,  but  I  love  those  who  are  masters  of 
their  business,  and  can  let  blood  without  the  patients  knowing  it. 
We  have  but  a  little  while  to  live,  and  what  cannot  you  do  for 
Zion  if  God  spare  your  valuable  life,  till  the  present  number  of 
students  be  qualified  for  the  work  ? 

Yours  forever, 

S.  SPRING. 

From  Dr.  Morse  to  L.  Woods. 

NEwYoBK,s£ec.  1,  1809. 

MY  DEAR  FRIEND, — The  Theological  Institution  is  an  object  which 
excites  great  attention  this  way.  The  magnitude  of  its  funds  and  the 
number  of  its  students  fill  people  with  astonishment.  You  are 
placed,  my  dear  friend,  in  a  situation  of  high  responsibility.  I  feel 
much  for  you  and  I  pray  the  Lord  to  be  with  you,  and  to  give'-you 
wisdom,  grace  and  strength,  according  to  your  necessities.  I  hope 
Dr.  P.  will  lend  you  his  aid,  till  his  place  shall  be  occupied  by  a 
successor.  Mr.  Stuart,  I  think,  will  find  it  difficult  to  get  away 
from  his  people.  The  state  of  his  church  and  society  is  peculiar  and 
trying,  and  renders  the  path  of  his  duty  in  some  respects  obscure.' 
I  think,  however,  that  it  is  his  duty  to  go,  and  that  this  is  the 
course  he  will  ultimately  pursue,  though  it  must  not  be  hurried. 

I  think  Mr.  Evarts  will  remove  to  Charlestown,  and  take  on 
himcelf  the  editorship  of  the  Panoplist.  He  will  be  a  great  ac- 
quisition to  the  evangelical  cause  among  us,  and  an  important 
aid  to  me  particularly.  Those  who  know  him  best  have  a  high 
opinion  of  his  learning,  talents  and  piety.  He  is  thought  to  be 
one  of  the  best  writers  in  Connecticut.  He  wishes  to  pursue  a 
literary  life. 

I  shall  expect  a  long  and  particular  letter  from  you,  containing 
all  the  information  which  you  know  I  wish  for;  viz.,  how  many 
students  are  added  to  the  former  number;  what  has  become  of 
the  subscription  for  your  benefit;  how  do  you  get  along  with  the 
business  of  instruction  and  government;  and  whether  the  aspect 
of  ecclesiastical  affairs  has  undergone  any  material  change  since 
I  left  home;  and  what  is  to  be  the  effect  of  my  absence  at  and 
around  home,  etc.  I  trust  we  daily  remember  each  other  in  our 
prayers,  let  us  meet  daily  at  the  throne  of  grace.  Remember  us 
very  affectionately  to  Mrs.  W.,  Madam  Phillips,  Esqr.  F.,  Esqr, 
A.  and  lady,  Dr.  P.  and  family,  and  believe  me  as  ever, 

Your  friend  and  brother, 

J.  MOUSE. 


634       HISTORY   OF   ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 


From  Mr.  Bartlett  to  Dr.  Griffin. 

NEWBUBTPOKT,  Dec.  29,  1809. 

REV.  AND  DEAE  SIK, — Your  letters  of  the  15th  and  27th  inst. 
duly  reached  me.  You  expressed  yourself  feelingly  on  the  house 
building  at  Andover.  I  am  sensible  that  it  will  cost  considerable 
and  that  the  preparation  of  the  garden  is  more  than  was  calcu- 
lated upon ;  yet,  sir,  when  it  is  finished,  I  think  it  will  look  well, 
and  I  hope  meet  your  and  Madam  Griffin's  approbation,  which 
will  give  me  great  pleasure.  The  plan  being  laid  out,  I  saw  no 
need  of  altering.  I  believe  the  workmen  are  going  on  well.  Mr. 
Palmer  has  received  my  instructions  to  employ  as  many  hands  as 
will  have  it  finished,  so  that  it  will  be  ready  to  receive  your  family 
by  the  first  week  in  May.  As  Providence  has  opened  a  way  for 
some  of  its  stewards  to  promote  His  honor  and  glory  at  Andover, 
nothing  ought  to  be  wanting  on  their  part  to  effect  it  who  have 
that  privilege.  If  I  have  shared  of  His  bounty  largely,  I  must  be 
accountable,  and  to  know  how  to  dispose  of  it  requires  a  great 
deal  of  wisdom  to  do  it  right.  Perhaps  I  am  wrong  and  my  mo- 
tives are  bad;  if  so,  I  must  forever  lie  under  the  displeasure  of 
'Heaven,  a  solemn  consideration.  I  stand  in  absolute  need  of  the 
direction  of  Heaven,  and  that  I  may  be  directed  rightly  is  my  sin- 
cere desire  and  prayer.  I  beg,  sir,  you  would  not  give  yourself 
the  least  uneasiness  as  to  the  expense  of  the  place  at  Andover.  I 
hope,  sir,  you  have  not  seen  the  least  unwillingness  in  me  to  com- 
ply with  your  wishes.  I  have  never  complained  to  any  person  of 
the  expense  being  beyond  what  I  am  cheerfully  willing  to  defray. 
I  think,  sir,  that  Providence  has  pointed  the  choice  of  the  Trustees 
of  Andover  Academy  to  a  man  to  fill  one  of  the  Professorships  at  the 
Divinity  College,  that  is  well  calculated  to  do  great  good,  and  I 
have  full  faith  to  believe  that  the  benefits  the  students  will  have 
from  him  will  be  remembered  in  this  world,  and  in  the  world  to 
which  we  are  all  hastening,  to  the  honor  and  glory  of  our  Re- 
deemer. If  this  should  be  the  case,  shall  we  who  are  more  im- 
mediately engaged  have  any  reason  to  reflect  that  we  have  failed 
in  any  part  of  our  duty  ?  Your  invitation  to  be  at  Boston  at  the 
dedication  of  your  new  church,  with  my  friends,  I  received  with 
a  mark  of  respect.  Circumstances  of  the  time  must  determine 
whether  I  shall  be  present  or  not.  I  hope  you  and  Madam  G. 
will  have  occasion  in  due  time  to  rejoice  in  special  mercies.  Mrs. 
B.,  Hannah,  and  myself  wish  to  be  remembered  to  Madam  Griffin 
and  yourself. 

I  remain,  with  respect,  your  friend  and  well-wisher, 

WM.  BAKTLETT. 


APPENDIX.  635 


From  Dr.  Spring  to  L.  Woods. 

NEWBUKYPOET,  Jan.  1,  1810. 

DEAREST  BROTHER, — Your  long  epistles  are  always  short.  Your 
last  letter  has  called  my  heart  into  a  state  of  interesting  exercise. 
As  to  our  going  to  New  Haven  to  wait  on  Council,  I  cannot  coin- 
cide with  your  opinion.  It  is  my  real  judgment  that  an  impartial 
letter  will  have  more  important  influence  than  any  personal  rep- 
resentation we  can  make.  Oar  letters  will  tell  the  truth  to  ad- 
vantage. But  were  we  to  be  personally  before  the  Council  we 
should  be  considered  as  presenting  a  demand  rather  than  a 
petition.  I  am  afraid  that  personal  application  would  appear 
officious,  and  excite  in  the  Council  prejudice,  suspicion  and  dis- 
trust, rather  than  confidence.  I  can't  tell  with  what  air  I  could 
appear  before  that  deliberating  body  with  dignity  and  advan- 
tage. This  however  is  but  the  opinion  of  one  who  needs  more 
information  relating  to  the  expediency  of  the  measure  which  you 
propose.  Let  the  matter  be  duly  weighed. 

I  have  desired  Mr.  Stuart  to  inform  me  who  will  probably  be 
the  Moderator  of  the  Council,  and  if  he  think  it  expedient,  I  will 
address  the  Council  in  the  name  of  the  Visitors  present.  Why 
cannot  the  Professors  do  the  same  in  a  separate  letter.  But 
wisdom  is  profitable  to  direct. 

I  have  written  to  Brother  Stuart  all  that  I  can  say  from  the 
Associates.  I  tell  him  that  he  will  have  the  use  of  Mr.  Bartlett's 
house  gratis  till  other  accommodations  be  made,  and  that  Mr. 
Bartlett's  delicacy  forbids  his  saying  that  he  shall  be  decently  ac- 
commodated on  the  hill.  Mr.  Bartlett  says,  "  If  there  be  honor 
concerned  in  the  business,  I  am  willing  Mr.  B.  and  Mrs.  N.  shall 
have  their  share  as  I  don't  choose  to  hurt  their  feelings.  But  if 
they  decline,  I  don't  know  but  I  should  myself  effect  what  is  nec- 
essary." This  is  saying  enough,  and  the  substance  I  have  com- 
municated to  Mr.  Stuart,  reminding  him  that  the  expense  of  re- 
moving will  be  defrayed  on  gratuitous  principles  without  doubt. 

I  am  sorry  to  hear  of  Conger's  illness,  how  does  the  dear  soul 
do  ?  Give  him  my  love. 

Last  Saturday  I  went  into  Mr.  Bartlett's  store  while  he  was 
concluding  a  letter  to  Dr.  Griffin  relative  to  his  difficulty  about 
the  unexpected  expense  of  the  house.  He  tells  the  Dr.  that  the 
situation  costs  more  than  was  expected.  But  he  says  "  no  one 
has  heard  me  complain."  He  says  all  that  he  can  to  relieve  the 
Dr.  and  to  comfort  him  under  his  burden.  What  a  man  I  I  told 
him  he  had  said  quite  enough  on  that  head.  With  one  circuin- 


636       HISTORY  OF  ANDOVER    THEOLOGICAL    SEMINARY. 

stance  I  was  deeply  impressed.  In  the  course  of  the  letter  he 
notices  the  goodness  of  God  in  clothing  him  with  ability  to  do 
good,  and  his  obligations  to  conduct  answerably,  and  says, '  Woe 
is  me  if  I  do  not.'  While  entering  on  this  branch  of  his  letter  in 
reading  it  to  me,  I  was  surprised  that  he  could  not  read  his  own 
writing.  But  I  soon  found  that  he  was  completely  overwhelmed 
with  tenderness,  and  bathed  in  tears.  I  desired  him  to  read  no 
further  and  turned  away  to  give  relief.  He  soon  came  and  with 
the  most  affecting,  broken  accent,  put  the  letter  into  my  hand  and 
desired  me  to  read  it.  He  has  left  the  affair  of  the  house  where 
he  left  it  when  at  Andover,  with  confidence  in  Dr.  Griffin. 

As  to  the  Bell  all  is  well.  Last  week  I  addressed  a  line  to  a 
gentleman  like  a  sturdy  beggar,  for  a  Bell;  not  however  to  any 
one  of  the  Associates,  nor  to  any  one  whom  I  have  mentioned  to 
you.  His  name  I  shall  never  mention  in  the  connection,  nor 
give  any  one  any  advantage  to  designate  by  the  art  of  guessing. 
The  next  day  he  sent  me  his  obligation  of  $500  for  the  purpose. 
The  Lord  be  praised.  For  I  believe  He  commands  and  has  the 
direction  of  the  bell  money  at  least.  I  have  since  written  Revere 
telling  him  what  b'ell  we  want  and  that  I  have  heard  several  of 
his  bells  whose  tones  did  not  please.  I  also  remarked  for  the 
sake  of  pleasing  on  laudable  ground,  for  you  know  that  I  am  pe- 
culiarly conscientious,  that  I  believed  from  report  that  he  had  been 
fortunate  in  casting  some  excellent  bells;  and  desired  him  to  state 
his  terms  allowing  me  to  have  the  list  of  bells.  He  has  answered 
the  letter  and  given  me  his  terms.  He  has  two  good  bells  already 
cast,  he  informs  me,  one  of  four  hundred  pounds  weight,  one  of 
two  hundred  pounds  weight — desires  me  to  make  proof.  Now, 
sir,  when  we  attend  the  Dedication  on  the  tenth  inst.  let  us 
combine  our  auditory  nerves  after  clearing  our  ears  of  all  ob- 
structions and  judge  with  all  possible  accuracy.  Let  us  an- 
ticipate how  it  will  sound  when  nobody  hears  it;  how  it  will 
sound  when  it  will  wake  up  sleepy,  lazy  Professors  who  love 
a  morning  bed,  and  how  it  will  sound  too  when  all  the  mon- 
strous great  folks  are  on  the  hill.  On  the  whole  if  our  auditory 

nerves  be  found  incompetent,  let  us  call  in  the ,  the 

awful  discriminating  taste  of  Dr.  Pearson.  And  if  it  will  not 
make  him  more  than  sick  at  his  stomach,  the  Bell  will  pass  for  a 
good  sounding  instrument,  and  answer  every  purpose.  If  you 
have  opportunity  let  me  have  a  line  before  we  meet  on  the  9th 
inst.  at  Charlestown  or  Boston;  for  I  want  to  know  Conger's  state, 
and  the  state  of  Bates,  and  the  movements  at  Andover. 
From  yours,  to  you  and  yours, 

S.  SPRING. 


APPENDIX.  637 


From  Mr.  Barllelt  to  Dr.  Griffin. 

NEWBUKYPOET,  Jan.  9,  1810. 

DEAK  AND  REV.  SIR, — With,  sorrow  I  write  you  upon  the  death 
of  our  beloved  friend  Conger.  This  unexpected  and  repeated 
frown  of  that  Providence  which  cannot  err,  calls  on  us  all  that 
are  connected  with  our  College  to  mourn  and  sympathize  with 
you  and  Madam  Griffin  in  this  Providence  in  taking  as  it  were  one 
of  your  family.  I  sympathize  with  the  friends  of  the  deceased  that 
their  lovely  son  on  whom  their  hopes  and  expectations  must  have 
been  highly  raised  is  so  soon  taken  from  them.  May  this  instructive 
Providence  be  sanctified  to  us  all,  and  rightly  improved.  I  must 
beg  to  be  excused  for  not  coming  to  Boston  at  this  time.  I  hope 
you  and  Madam  G.  with  your  daughter  Louise  are  well.  You 
have  my  best  wishes  for  the  church  and  society  you  are  connected 
with  in  Boston,  that  it  may  grow  and  nourish  and  be  a  pure 
church,  that  nothing  may  hinder  its  increase,  that  the  glory  of 
God  may  be  only  sought  for,  is  the  sincere  desire  of  your  friend. 
Capt.  Jenkins,  with  my  daughter  Jenkins  and  my  daughter  Han- 
nah, intend  to  be  in  Boston  to-morrow.  My  respects  to  Madam 
G.  and  yourself.  Mrs.  Bartlett  wishes  to  be  particularly  remem- 
bered to  you  both. 

I  am  truly  your  sincere  friend  and  humble  servant, 

WM.  BARTLETT. 

From  Mr.  Bartlett  to  Dr.  Griffin. 

NEWBURYPORT,  March  23,  1810. 

REV.  AND  DEAR  SIR, — I  received  your  favor  of  the  21st  inst.  by 
last  mail.  I  have,  ever  since  our  beloved  friend  Mr.  Stuart  has 
engaged  himself  to  the  College,  been  concerned  for  his  accommoda- 
tion at  Andover.  As  I  stand  in  relation  to  the  Professorship 
which  he  fills, — and  lest  I  should  take  too  much  upon  me,  and 
nay  own  forwardness  give  my  beloved  colleagues  offence,  I  must 
act  prudently.  I  had  my  fears,  that  when  I  proposed  that  he 
might  live  in  the  house  that  you  occupy  at  Andover  after  I 
made  the  offer,  that  I  had  given  you  reason  to  complain  of  me.  I 
so  viewed  the  offer  afterwards  myself;  but  I  hope,  sir,  you  will 
.excuse  it.  I  did  it  without  consideration,  and  hoping  the  new 
house  would  be  done  in  season  for  you  to  move  into  when  you 
left  Boston.  I  still  feel  a  desire  to  accommodate  our  friend  with 
a  house,  but  how  to  do  it,  I  don't  know.  I  have  already  men- 
tioned it  to  our  friend  Brown,  but  got  no  encouragement  what- 


638       HISTORY  OF  ANDOVER   THEOLOGICAL   SEMINARY. 

ever.  I  have  not  had  opportunity  to  say  a  word  to  our  worthy 
friend  Mrs.  Norris.  I  hope  time  will  furnish  the  house  I  wish,  the 
shorter  the  better.  I  enclose  you,  for  Mr.  Stuart,  a  check  on  the 
Branch  Bank  at  Boston  for  five  hundred  dollars,  to  be  for  his 
use  without  interest  for  one  year.  Please  to  present  him  with 
the  money.  It  may  be  of  service  in  providing  him  with  furniture 
to  begin  with.  Please  to  present  my  respects  to  Mr.  Stuart,  be- 
lieving that  the  same  Providence  that  directed  him  to  Andover 
will  support  and  make  his  way  prosperous.  My  respects  to 
Madam  Griffin  and  yourself. 

I  remain,  with  much  respect,  your  servant, 

WM.  BARTLETT. 

P.  S. — Please  to  take  Mr.  Stuart's  receipt. 

From  Mr.  Bartlett  to  Dr.  Griffin. 

NEWBUKYPOET,  Jan.  23,  1812. 

KEV.  AND  DEAR  SIR, — Your  favor  of  the  20th  inst.  I  duly  re- 
ceived. I  am  of  the  opinion  with  you  that  a  publication  of  a 
magazine  is  very  necessary  for  the  missionary  business,  and  I 
know  of  no  publication  that  would  be  so  likely  to  be  well  received 
as  the  Panoplist,  to  the  promotion  of  the  missionary  cause.  The 
Prudential  Committee  had  a  meeting  yesterday  and  have  proposed 
to  assist  Mr.  Evarts  with  $200.  Perhaps  that  sum  will  induce  him 
to  continue  as  the  Editor  of  the  Panoplist  one  year  longer.  I  am 
sensible  that  if  this  'publication  is  dropped,  it  will  be  difficult  to 
get  another  of  equal  goodness  for  some  time  to  come,  and  the 
mission  might  be  injured,  perhaps  lost.  I  received  your  several 
favors  and  have  not  answered  them  as  I  ought.  The  sermons  I 
received,  for  which  you  will  please  accept  my  thanks.  The  letter 
of  request  from  Mr.  Blair,  I  have  received,  but  having  so  many 
calls  other  ways  I  must  beg  to  be  excused  at  this  time.  My 
respects  to  Madam  Griffin.  Mrs.  Bartlett  sends  hers  to  you 
both,  and  please  to  accept  of  mine. 

I  remain,  dear  sir,  your  friend  and  humble  servant, 

WM.  BARTLETT. 


HOME  USE 

CIRCULATION  DEPARTMENT 
MAIN  LIBRARY 

This  book  is  due  on  the  last  date  ^'"elow- 


THE  UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA 'LIBRARY 


