OR 


THE    STORY    OF    THE 


OUT   OF 

DEATH 


AFRICA 
INLAND 
MISSION, 


MABEL  S.  GRIMES, 

WITH    AN1 

AFTERWORD   COMPILED 

BY  A  MEMBER  OF  THE 

COUNCIL. 

Stiff  Boards,  Is.  4d  "fit. 
Paper  Covers,  1  s.  net. 

(Postage  2d. 


UCLA  LIBRA! 


AFRICA   INLAND    MISSION. 


CHARLES  E.  HURLBURT,   General  Director. 

BRITISH  COUNCIL. 

*REV.  J.  STUART  HOLDEN,  D.D.,  President. 
PASTOR  A.  C.  DIXON,  D.D.,  Vice-President. 
'ALFRED  COLEMAN,  Chairman. 
*E.  A.  NEATBY,  M  D.,   Treasurer. 
*REV.   D.  P.  ROBINSON,   M.A.,   Secretary. 

REV.  SIR  M.  BEAUCHAMP,  Bart.     *REV.  T.  H.  LINGLEY.  M  A. 
*PASTOR  D.  J.  F1NDLAY.  *REV.  J.  M.  POLLOCK,  M.A. 

*J    G.  GOVAN.  ERNEST  E.  SHAW. 

A.  A.  HEAD.  *REV.  R    A.  SMITH,  M.A. 

REV.  F.  S.  LAURENCE,  M.A.  REV.  H.  WIGAN,  M.A. 

*H.  R.  WYATT. 

*   Executive  Memberg. 

AMERICAN    COUNCIL. 

REV.   R.  A.  TORREY,  D.D.,  President. 
PASTOR  O.  R.  PALMER,  Director. 

POLICY    OF    THE    MISSION. 

While  seeking  to  give  full  information  to  the  Church  at  large  con- 
cerning  Africa,  its  need  of  the  Gospel,  its  wide-open  doors,  and  the 
responsibility  of  Christian  stewardship,  the  Mission  does  not  solicit  individuals 
to  make  contributions  nor  ask  Churches  for  collections  Its  policy  is  to  give 
information,  but  to  ask  God  alone  to  lay  upon  the  hearts  of  His  children 
where  and  what  they  are  to  give.  If  individuals  or  churches  are  thus  led  of 
God  to  give  to  the  work,  such  gifts  are  gladly  accepted  as  a  token  of  His 
grace  and  answer  to  prayer,  and  used  carefully  and  prayerfully  in  His  service- 
All  contributions  are  acknowledged  to  the  donors  and  all  gifts  appear 
by  number  (not  by  name)  in  "Hearing  and  Doing,"  the  organ  of  the 
Mission  (Post  free  Is).  The  accounts  of  the  Mission  are  audited  yearly  by 
chartered  accountants. 

The  Hon.  Secretary  of  the  Prayer  Union  is  Miss  Mabel  S.  Grimes. 
See  p.  93  for  Form  of  Application. 

Sample  copies  of  the  literature  will  be  sent  upon  request.  Cheques 
and  money  orders  should  be  made  payable  to  the  Africa  Inland  Mission  and 
all  addressed  to  78a,  EAST  STREET,  BAKER  STREET,  LONDON,  W.  1 


/i 


THE  LIBRARY 

OF 

THE  UNIVERSITY 
OF  CALIFORNIA 

LOS  ANGELES 


REV.    PETER   CAMERON    SCOTT. 
(Founder  of  the  Africa.  Inland  Mission). 


LIFE 


OUT    OF 


OR 

:    THE  STORY  OF  THE     : 
AFRICA  INLAND  MISSION 

By 

MABEL  S.  GRIMES 

With  an 

AFTERWORD 

Compiled  by   a  MEMBER  OF  THE  COUNCIL 

And  a 

FOREWORD 
By  REV.  CHARLES   INWOOD 


(With  numerous  Illustrations  and  a  Map.) 

LONDON 

AFRICA   INLAND    MISSION 
78a,  EAST   STREET,  W.I 

1917 


PREFACE. 

THE  following  story  of  the  Africa  Inland 
Mission  is  only  a  sketch  of  the  work  and  is 
therefore  incomplete,  but  it  is  hoped  it  will 
supply  a  long-felt  need  to  give  fuller  information 
to  the  British  public. 

It  is  sent  forth  with  the  earnest  prayer  that 
it  may  be  used  of  God  to  bring  many  to  the  joy  of 
full  surrender ;  to  be  willing  to  count  not  their 
lives  dear  unto  themselves,  but  in  utter  abandon- 
ment to  the  will  of  God  to  lay  themselves  at  His 
feet,  ready  to  press  forward  into  the  dense 
darkness  of  the  untouched  tribes  of  Africa,  as 
He  shall  direct  and  equip. 

The  writer  is  largely  indebted  for  much  of  the 
information  given  in  Sections  I.  and  II.,  to  Mr. 
John  W.  Stauffacher,  from  whose  writings  she 
has  culled  whole  sentences. 

M.S.G. 


A  FOREWORD. 

IT  is  to  me  a  privilege  of  no  common  sort  to  be 
permitted  to  commend  a  story  so  intensely 
Christlike  as  this.  It  is  a  typical  African  pioneer 
missionary  story,  with  a  grace  and  charm  all  its 
own.  It  is  told  by  one  who  knows  the  field's 
work  at  first  hand,  and  in  whose  heart  the 
missionary  passion  glows  at  white  heat.  There 
is  that  realistic  touch  which  comes  only  through 
intimate  personal  knowledge. 

Like  the  early  chapters  of  all  missionary 
enterprise,  and  indeed  like  all  sacrificial  work  for 
Christ,  this  history  records  sorrows  that  only  faith 
can  bear  and  joys  that  only  Christ  can  impart. 
It  abounds  with  sharp  tests  of  faith  and  courage 
and  devotion — tests  which  after  patient  waiting 
lead  up  to  glorious  victories.  It  furnishes  one 
more  witness  to  the  regenerating  power  of  the 
old  Gospel  when  that  Gospel  is  preached  and 
loved  and  lived  in  the  power  of  the  Holy  Spirit. 
Its  bold  reliance  on  God  as  One  Who  answers 
prayer  for  temporal  supplies  as  liberally  as  for 
spiritual  needs  is  a  much  needed  message  to  us 
all  in  the  testing  days  through  which  we  are 
passing.  It  reminds  us  with  fresh  emphasis 
that 

"  They  that  trust  God  wholly 
Find  Him  wholly  true." 

(Signed)  CHARLES  IN  WOOD. 

1216750 


CONTENTS. 

SECTION  I. 
"  THE  VALLEY  OF  THE  SHADOW  OF  DEATH." 

I.     A  WHOLLY  YIELDED  LIFE  -          9 

II.     A  LIFE  LAID  DOWN  13 

III.     THE  DARK  DAYS  THAT  FOLLOWED  21 

SECTION  II. 
"  NEW  LIFE." 

I.  NEW  LIFE  EMERGING  27 

II.  THE  LIFE  GROWING  32 

III.  FRUIT  OF  THE  NEW  LIFE  -  42 

IV.  HARVEST  PROSPECTS,  OR  THE  CALL  TO  ADVANCE  53 

AN  AFTERWORD. 
(COMPILED  BY  A  MEMBER  OF  THE  BRITISH  COUNCIL.) 

I.    THE  WORK  IN  THE  BRITISH  ISLES  59 

II.    THE  BRITISH  MISSIONARIES  OF  THE  AFRICA 

INLAND  MISSION  65 

MAP    ILLUSTRATING    THE    AFRICA    INLAND 

MISSION'S  SPHERE  OF  WORK          facing  p.        94 


SECTION  I. 
THE  VALLEY  OF  THE  SHADOW  OF  DEATH. 

"  O  cross  that  liftest  up  my  head, 

I  dare  not  ask  to  fly  from  thee  ; 
/  lay  in  dust  life's  glory  dead, 
And  from,  the  ground  there  blossoms  red 

Life  that  shall  endless  be." 


CHAPTER  I. 
A  WHOLLY  YIELDED  LIFE. 

"  Except  a  grain  of  wheat  fall  into  the  earth  and  die,  it  abideth 
by  itself  alone  :  but  if  it  die  it  beareth  much  fruit." 

John  xii.  24   (R.V.). 

"  WHAT  waste  !  "  some  foolish  and  ignorant  people 
might  say  when  they  see  grains  of  corn  in  the  hands  of  the 
farmer  scattered  broadcast  over  the  earth  !  "  Why  is 
it  not  stored  up  and  preserved  ?  Shall  we  not  die  of 
famine  with  such  ruthless  waste  ?  "  But  the  grain 
which  lies  buried  for  a  time  and  goes  through  the  process 
of  death  soon  becomes  animated  with  a  new  life.  Little 
shoots  burst  out,  then  the  tall  stalks  appear,  capped 
by  the  golden  ears,  bringing  forth  "  some  thirty-fold, 
some  sixty,  and  some  an  hundred."  Had  the  grain  been 
stored  it  would  possibly  have  become  mouldy  and 
useless  !  Now  in  this  field  of  beautiful  waving  corn  is 
food  for  a  multitude  of  people  ! 

THE  AFRICA  INLAND  MISSION  was  founded  by  the 
Rev.  Peter  Cameron  Scott  in  1895.  He  was  born  of 
Scottish  parents  in  Scotland,  March  7th,  1867.  In 
November,  1879,  *ne  Scott  family  crossed  the  water  and 
settled  for  a  time  in  Philadelphia.  At  fifteen  years  of 
age  Peter  Scott  united  with  one  of  the  Presbyterian 
churches  of  that  city,  though,  it  seems,  more  from  a  sense 
of  duty  than  from  any  change  of  heart.  Soon  after,  he 
became  a  solo  singer  in  one  of  the  city  churches,  and 
following  this  received  a  flattering  invitation  to  sing 


10 

on  the  concert  stage.  Much  to  his  disappointment  he  was 
obliged  to  decline  this  owing  to  his  parents'  firm  refusal. 
They  said,  "  No  son  of  ours  shall  use  for  a  worldly 
purpose  what  God  has  given  for  His  glory  only  !  " 

In  1887  his  health  broke  down  and  he  went  for  a  change 
to  Scotland.  Soon  after  his  return  to  Philadelphia  the 
Holy  Spirit's  call  to  a  surrendered  life  began  to  be  heard  in 
his  heart,  but  it  was  resisted.  Worldly  disappointments, 
baffled  plans,  sickness,  and  bodily  afflictions  were  used 
by  God  to  show  him  the  vanity  of  the  world  and  to  beget 
soul  hunger  for  a  deeper  knowledge  of  the  Christ  whom 
he  was  serving  only  in  name.  At  this  time  the  words, 
"  Ye  are  not  your  own  ;  ye  are  BOUGHT  with  a  price  " 
rang  in  his  ears  again  and  again.  These  words  so  troubled 
his  resisting  heart  that  he  tried  to  erase  them  from  his 
Bible.  God  in  His  infinite  love  and  patience  continued 
to  deal  with  him.  Oh,  that  wonderful  love  that  will 
not  let  u^  go  ! 

In  March,  1889,  unable  to  do  any  manual  labour 
through  ill-health,  in  desperation  he  answered  an  ad- 
vertisement for  chorus  singers  in  an  opera  and  was 
accepted.  His  parents'  opposition  was  no  longer  bind- 
ing, as  Mr.  Scott  was  now  of  age.  But  God  had  greater 
work  than  chorus  singing  for  him,  and  now  laid  His  hand 
upon  him  in  a  marvellous  way.  One  day,  as  he  was 
ascending  the  steps  of  the  Opera  House,  a  still  small 
voice  seemed  to  penetrate  his  innermost  being  with 
the  question,  "  Are  you  going  to  glorify  God  by  going  in 
there  ?  "  Still  resisting  the  voice  of  God,  he  tried  to 
continue  to  mount  the  steps.  Again  it  came  a  second  time 
and  yet  a  third  time.  At  last  he  recognised  God's  voice 
and  was  conquered.  The  conviction  laid  hold  of  his  heart : 
"  It  is  the  Lord  !  "  Turning  abruptly  round,  he 
descended  the  steps  and  looking  up  to  heaven,  he 


II 

answered,  "  No,  Lord,  and  I  shall  never  go  into  such  a 
place  again."  His  was  now  the  attitude  of  Saul  of 
Tarsus,  "  What  wilt  Thou  have  me  to  do  ?  "  He  yielded 
himself  wholly,  absolutely  to  God,  spirit,  soul,  and  body, 
in  definite  consecration  to  Him.  He  became  a  trans- 
formed man.  His  lips  were  touched  with  divine  power  ; 
his  heart  yearned  over  lost  men  ;  his  life  was  lifted  from 
the  world  plane  to  the  Christ  plane,  into  the  closest 
sympathy  with  God's  loftiest  purpose  for  the  world.  His 
spiritual  life  grew  by  leaps  and  bounds,  and  the  Word  of 
God  and  secret  prayer  become  well-springs  of  joy.  His 
whole  being  throbbed  and  glowed  with  eager  devotion, 
until  at  last  it  burnt  out  its  intense  life  for  His  Lord  and 
King.  Later  he  was  wondrously  healed  of  bodily 
ailments,  including  defective  eyesight  of  four  years' 
standing. 

The  Lord  now  began  to  lay  on  his  heart  the  "  regions 
beyond,"  and  he  soon  gave  himself  to  Him  for  Africa. 
His  mother's  reply  when  hearing  of  his  decision,  was  : 
"  I  consecrated  you  to  God  for  His  service  before  you 
were  born,  and  the  day  you  left  home  to  go  to  college, 
I,  on  my  knees  in  my  room,  gave  you  up  more  than  ever 
to  the  Lord,  to  go  wherever  He  might  call  you."  Would 
that  all  Christian  parents  would  so  yield  up  their 
children ! 

On  November  28th,  1890,  Peter  Cameron  Scott  started 
for  the  West  Coast  of  Africa,  to  labour  under  the  Inter- 
national Missionary  Alliance  upon  the  Congo.  For  two 
years  he  toiled  faithfully  in  that  region,  blessed  of  God 
wherever  he  went.  During  that  time  he  was  joined  by  his 
elder  brother  John,  who,  after  only  a  few  months'  service, 
died  upon  the  field.  In  unspeakable  grief  and  loneliness, 
young  Cameron  with  his  own  hands  made  the  coffin,  dug 
the  grave,  and  laid  to  rest  the  body  of  his  brother.  Over 


12 

the  newly-made  grave  a  solitary  figure  bowed  in  the 
Presence  of  Him  who  had  sent  him,  and  in  heroic,  holy 
resolve  gave  himself  more  wholly  than  ever  to  God  for 
the  evangelisation  of  the  Dark  Continent. 

A  few  months  later  he  was  carried  out  of  the  country 
unconscious  and  so  broken  in  health  that  it  seemed  as 
though  the  devil  had  dealt  a  final  blow  to  his  service  in 
Africa.  But  out  of  this  seeming  death  to  all  his  hopes  and 
plans,  the  seed  began  to  germinate  and  spring  forth, 
finally  to  develop  into  the  very  work  for  which  God  had 
called  him.  How  often  in  our  Christian  experience  God 
allows  us  to  be  brought  to  this  place  of  death  to  all  our 
hopes,  wishes  and  plans  !  But  only  in  order  that  new  life 
may  spring  out  of  death,  and  that  we  may  enter  into  His 
hopes,  wishes  and  plans  for  our  lives  ! 


CHAPTER  II. 
A  LIFE  LAID  DOWN. 

"  He  that  taketh  not  his  cross  and  followeth  after  Me  is  not 
worthy  of  Me." 

"  He  that  findeth  his  life  shall  lose  it ;  and  he  that  loseth  his 
life  for  My  sake  shall  find  it." — Matt.  x.  38,  39. 

WHILE  seeking  to  regain  his  health  in  America  and 
Scotland,  Mr.  Scott  set  himself  to  study  carefully  the 
physical  conditions  of  the  Dark  Continent.  In  this  way 
he  was  led  to  the  conclusion  that  there  was  a  thickly- 
populated  region  in  the  high  uplands  of  British  East 
Africa,  not  as  yet  entered  by  missionaries,  where  effective 
service  could  be  done  by  white  people.  Circumstances 
having  arisen  which  led  to  his  leaving  the  International 
Missionary  Alliance,  the  desire  began  to  unfold  in  his  mind 
to  enter  Africa  by  the  East  Coast,  landing  at  Mombasa, 
and  to  plant  a  chain  of  stations  reaching  to  Lake  Chad  in 
the  far  Sudan.  He  began  to  pray  for  workers.  Seven 
young  men  in  America  gathered  round  him,  believing 
that  God  had  called  them  to  give  their  lives  to  His  service 
in  Africa.  They  had  previously  been  prevented  from 
going  to  the  Field  by  the  fact  that  nearly  every  home 
agency  was  heavily  involved  in  debt,  and  so  could  not 
assume  the  responsibility  of  more  missionaries  and  new 
fields. 

Mr.  Scott  and  his  little  company  agreed  to  pray  to  God 
for  funds  to  enable  them  to  go  forth,  and  to  trust  Him  for 
the  full  supply  of  their  needs  on  the  Field.  Thus  the 
AFRICA  INLAND  MISSION  was  commenced  on  a  faith  basis, 
and  has  continued  so  throughout. 

13 


14 

Much  prayer  was  made  with  earnest  and  faithful  friends 
of  missions,  amongst  whom  was  Dr.  A.  T.  Pierson,  who 
mentioned  in  an  address  given  some  ten  years  later,  that 
he  was  present  at  the  birth  of  the  Mission  in  Philadelphia, 
and  had  watched  it  grow  as  carefully  as  though  it  had 
been  his  child  ! 

A  small  council  was  formed,  of  which  Rev.  Chas.  E. 
Hurlburt  was  made  the  President  and  the  Rev.  James 
McConkey  Secretary  and  Treasurer.  It  was  decided  it 
should  be  inter-denominational  and  that  its  function 
should  be  to  spread  the  knowledge  of  mission  work,  and 
to  forward  workers  and  means  to  the  Field,  as  God 
supplied  them  in  answer  to  prayer. 

With  their  needs  fully  met,  the  first  party,  numbering 
seven,  sailed  from  New  York  on  August  I7th,  1895.  They 
were  joined  by  an  eighth  member  in  Scotland.  Mr. 
Peter  Scott  had  been  appointed  Superintendent  and 
was  in  charge  of  the  party.  They  reached  Mombasa 
the  latter  part  of  October,  1895. 

One  can  hardly  imagine  what  must  have  been  the 
feelings  of  the  first  party,  as  they  landed  on  the  East 
Coast  of  Africa  and  began  the  preparations  for  their 
inland  journey.  To  use  the  expression  of  their  leader, 
they  were  "  preparing  to  make  their  way  into  the  un- 
known and  untried  mysteries  of  the  interior."  Little 
did  they  imagine  then  that  those  who  followed  them  ten 
years  later,  would  step  from  the  large  ocean  steamers  into 
the  waiting  railway  train  (Uganda  Railway),  and  in  less 
than  twenty-four  hours  travel  to  their  destination  in 
comparative  comfort,  not  "  into  the  unknown,  untried 
mysteries  of  the  interior,"  but  to  a  country  already  partly 
occupied  by  a  civilised  race.  Traces  were  already  to  be 
found  here  and  there  of  the  great  changes  which  were  to 
take  place,  but  who  could  have  thought  then  that  the 


i6 

change  would  have  been  so  rapid  that  some  of  this  very 
party  would  live  to  see  some  part  of  British  East  Africa 
transformed  into  a  busy,  enterprising  British  colony  ! 

On  the  morning  of  November  I2th,  1895,  all  prepar- 
ations being  completed,  the  little  band  of  missionaries 
started  on  their  journey  into  the  interior.  The  caravan 
consisted  of  forty-two  camels  and  about  300  men, 
including  a  military  escort.  The  latter  was  thought 
necessary,  as  a  famous  Arab  Chief,  Mbaruk,  was  in 
rebellion  against  the  Government.  When  they  arrived 
at  Rabai,  a  C.M.S.  Station,  they  heard  Mbaruk  had  been 
there  only  a  short  time  before,  and  that,  in  a  conflict, 
thirty  of  his  men  had  been  killed. 

Many  were  the  difficulties  and  dangers  of  the  way,  but 
their  faces  were  set  like  a  flint  towards  their  goal,  the 
Nzawi  hills,  some  250  miles  into  the  interior.  They  came 
in  contact  with  lions  ;  rhinoceroses  attacked  the  party 
once  or  twice,  porters  deserted  them,  and  fever  laid  them 
low,  until,  at  one  time,  all  but  one  of  the  party  were  in 
bed.  The  Masai  were  causing  great  alarm  at  this  time 
as  they  were  roaming  over  a  large  section  of  the  country, 
murdering  and  plundering  wherever  they  went.  A  man 
from  the  interior  brought  them  the  news  that  Mr.  Dick, 
a  transport  agent,  and  his  large  party  of  porters,  had  been 
killed  by  this  wild  tribe,  not  far  ahead  of  them. 

They  reached  Nzawi  on  December  I2th,  1895,  just  a 
month  after  their  start  from  Mombasa.  The  Lord  had 
led  and  guided  safely  all  the  way.  A  site  was  soon  found, 
and  after  a  long  discussion  with  the  natives,  they  began 
cutting  poles  and  grass  to  erect  the  first  house.  Mr. 
Scott  went  to  Machakos,  a  government  station  near  by, 
to  meet  the  Sub-Commissioner,  who  treated  the  mission- 
aries very  kindly  and  sanctioned  their  settling  in  the 
district.  In  a  short  time,  the  house  was  finished,  and  the 


17 

Africa  Inland  Mission  was  established  in  the  Field. 
This  first  station  was  called  Nzawi.  Men,  beasts,  fever, 
the  very  prince  of  darkness  himself,  all  sought  to  shut  our 
friends  out  of  the  Nzawi  valley.  But  God,  Who  ever 
proves  Himself  faithful  to  those  who  will  press  forward 
in  His  name,  did  not  fail  them.  He  supplied  the  means, 
when  from  the  human  standpoint  it  seemed  impossible. 
He  caused  ocean  steamers  to  wait  for  the  party  when  they 


HOUSE-BUILDING. 

were  delayed.  He  raised  up  C.M.S.  friends  to  welcome 
and  care  for  them  in  Mombasa  and  Freretown,  and  on  the 
journey  at  Rabai  and  Voi ;  and  Church  of  Scotland 
friends  at  Kibwezi.  He  delivered  them  from  the  lawless 
bands  of  Mbaruk  and  the  Masai  raiders.  He  rebuked 
fevers  and  saved  them  from  ravenous  beasts.  He  gave 
them  favour  with  natives  and  government  officials.  He 
directed  their  steps  to  a  peaceable  people  (the  Akamba), 
and  to  a  comparatively  healthy  location  Here,  240 


AKAMBA    WOMEN    GARDENING. 


AKAMBA    YOUNG    MEN     READY    FOR    DANCE. 


19 

miles  from  Mombasa,  and  near  the  equator,  yet  5,000  feet 
above  the  sea  level,  with  a  temperature  that  falls  to 
50  or  60  degrees  at  night,  a  large  company  of  people  in 
gross  darkness,  had  awaited  the  coming  of  the  heralds 
of  the  Cross. 

Eight  workers  being  considered  too  many  for  one 
station,  Mr.  Scott  began  to  look  about  for  sites  for  new 
ones.  He  encountered  great  opposition.  At  one  place 
the  natives  came  out  in  large  numbers  and  threatened  to 
fight  the  intruders,  but  notwithstanding  all,  new  stations 
were  opened  at  Sakai,  Kilungu  and  Kangundo.  Mr. 
Scott  writes  at  this  time  :  "In  humble  dependence  upon 
God,  we  have  moved  steadily  forward,  no  doubt  in  our 
blindness  making  many  mistakes,  but  we  ascribe  all 
praise  to  Him  for  anything  that  has  been  done  which  can 
bring  glory  to  His  name  and  honour  to  His  cause.  Four 
stations  have  been  established  and  manned  in  less  than 
ten  months  after  our  arrival  in  Nzawi.  During  this 
period  we  have  made  brick  for,  and  erected  six  buildings, 
besides  six  good  grass  dwelling  houses  ;  also  houses  for 
native  workers,  chickens  and  goats."  He  also  adds, 
"  Since  first  leaving  Mombasa,  I  have  walked  2,600  miles, 
and  have  seen  many  strange  and  sorrowful  sights.  We 
have  had  times  of  trial,  also  times  of  blessing  ;  times  of 
sorrow  and  times  of  joy.  Patience  has  been  put  to  the 
test,  but  God  has  answered  prayer.  Our  need  in  every 
particular  has  been  great,  but  His  promise  has  not  failed  !  " 

After  spending  over  a  year  in  British  East  Africa,  he 
planned  to  start  on  his  homeward  journey  in  January,. 
1897,  but  God's  plan  for  his  life  was  swiftly  nearing  its 
completion.  He  was  stricken  down  with  the  dreaded 
hsematuria.  All  that  could  be  done  for  him  was  done 
lovingly  and  tenderly,  but  God's  time  had  come  for 
His  young  servant,  who  had  so  devotedly  given  his  life 


20 

in  the  service  of  His  King,  to  be  called  into  His  immediate 
Presence !  He  passed  away  December  4th,  1896,  at 
Nzawi. 

The  day  of  his  death  he  would  not  let  his  mother  (who 
had  joined  him  on  the  Field)  out  of  his  sight.  He  asked 
her  if  she  was  ready  to  go  with  him,  and  when  she  replied, 
"  Yes,  my  son,"  he  said,  "  I  am  only  waiting  for  you." 
He  then  asked  those  standing  round  his  bed  if  they  had 
taken  their  "  hands  off  "  and  when  he  had  the  reply  in  the 
affirmative,  he  said,  "  Let  us  go  then."  "  Where  to, 
Peter?  "  "The  Eternal  City."  Then  raising  his  thin 
arm  he  said,  "  I  want  the  arm  of  the  Lord  of  Hosts  around 
me,"  and  thus  he  passed  into  the  presence  of  Him  Who 
did  not  deny  the  request  of  His  child. 

His  father  and  sister,  who  had  also  followed  him  to 
Africa,  had  been  sent  for,  but  they  only  arrived  in  time  to 
see  the  missionaries  at  the  sad  task  of  preparing  the 
coffin,  which  they  made  with  boxes  and  covered  with  white 
muslin,  decorated  with  flowers.  The  last  words  found 
written  in  his  diary  were  "  Here  am  I,  Lord  :  use  me  in 
life  or  in  death."  And  so  the  grain  of  wheat  fell  into  the 
ground,  but  only  to  bear  the  most  precious  fruit  to  His 
glory,  and  to  provide  the  Word  of  Life  to  many  aching, 
perishing  souls  in  the  centre  of  dark  Africa.  The  strong 
band  of  Christians  that  God  is  calling  out  from  the  thirteen 
different  tribes  amongst  whom  the  Africa  Inland  Mission 
now  works  (1917),  will  one  day  rejoice  the  heart  of  Peter 
Scott  as  they  meet  one  other  around  the  Throne  of  God. 


CHAPTER  III. 
THE  DARK   DAYS  THAT  FOLLOWED. 

"  Yea,  though  I  walk  through  the  valley  of  the  shadow  of 
death  (Deep  darkness  R.V.M).  I  will  fear  no  evil,  for  Thou  art  with 
me." — Psalm  xxiii.  4. 

THE  Mission  now  seemed  doomed.  It  also  had  to  pass 
through  a  time  of  death.  Two  other  faithful  souls  laid 
down  their  lives  ;  several  others  left  the  Mission  ;  and 
famine  closed  the  first  three  stations.  So  great  were 
the  inroads  made  by  the  enemy  into  the  ranks  of  the 
little  company  of  workers  that  at  last  only  one  out  of 
fifteen  was  left.  This  one  (Mr.  Bangert)  remained 
faithfully  at  his  post  in  the  midst  of  the  famine  and  other 
appalling  difficulties,  which  are  best  described  in  his  own 
words  :  "  Things  at  the  station  (Kangundo)  go  on  as 
before,  only  that  the  natives  seem  to  take  advantage  of 
my  being  alone  and  not  too  well  acquainted  with  their 
customs  and  language.  They  have  been  made  desperate 
by  long  fasting  and  hunger  and  are  bound  to  have  what 
they  can  lay  their  hands  on  at  any  cost.  Thieving  is  an 
added  plague  of  the  country  at  the  present  time,  and  I 
have  been  convinced  several  times  that  the  natives  would 
fill  me  with  arrows  for  the  sake  of  the  little  rice  I  have  in 
the  house,  if  they  had  the  chance.  They  are  really  des- 
perate, and  prowl  around  the  place  at  night.  They  have 
already  stolen  one  load  of  rice.  ...  Go  in  any 
direction  and  you  are  bound  to  stumble  over  dead  bodies. 


22 

It  is  getting  so  awful  that  I  really  dread  to  leave  the  station, 
even  to  go  out  on  the  plain.  The  drawn  agonised  looks 
on  their  faces  plainly  speak  of  the  horror  of  death  by 
starvation.  The  natives  with  few  exceptions,  are  existing 
on  a  little  root  berry,  about  the  size  of  a  pea,  which  they 
dig  out  of  the  sand.  Where  these  are  found  you  will 
daily  see  hundreds  of  the  most  pitiable  specimens 
imaginable,  poor,  thin,  bony  men,  women  and  children, 
with  mouths  besmeared  with  dirt,  squatting  about, 
digging  these  roots  and  eating  them  as  fast  as  found. 
How  many  of  these  are  perishing  day  by  day,  one  does  not 
know,  but  the  fact  that  they  lie  but  a  short  time  before 
being  eaten  by  hyenas  and  jackals,  and  the  many  bodies 
lying  about  wherever  you  go,  compels  one  to  believe  the 
number  is  considerable.  I  sometimes  think  I  am  getting 
hardened  to  the  awfulness  of  all  this.  Just  think  of 
poking  corpses  out  of  trees,  where  starving  natives  have 
crawled  to  escape  wild  beasts,  and  then  hearing  them  fall 
with  a  thud,  and  leaving  them  to  be  eaten  by  animals  ! 
This  may  seem  like  an  idle  tale,  but  it  is  not,  and  has  been 
a  part  of  my  revolting  work  for  the  past  few  weeks. 
The  shambas  and  paths  are  literally  strewn  with  corpses. 
Thousands  have  died,  and  scores  are  dying  daily.  I  am 
writing  this  while  listening  to  the  pitiful  cry  of  starving 
children  outside  the  door !  .  .  .  Less  than  one 
fourth  of  the  Akamba  tribe  remain  to  tell  the  tale  of  their 
awful  suffering,  and  before  the  crops  come  on,  a  still 
smaller  percentage  will  remain." 

To  the  horror  of  famine  was  added  an  awful  cattle 
plague,  in  which  thousands  upon  thousands  of  cattle 
died  ;  also  terrible  ravages  of  small-pox  among  the  Masai 
tribe.  This  latter  came  with  the  appearance  of  the 
European  and  his  mysterious  railway,  and  so  upon  the 
white  man  was  placed  all  the  blame,  in  the  mind  of  the 


23 

natives.  It  is  perhaps  difficult  to  imagine  what  must 
have  been  the  awful  suffering  of  this  solitary  missionary 
of  the  cross,  who  stood  alone  at  this  time  to  represent  all 
there  was  of  the  Africa  Inland  Mission.  To  him  will 
surely  be  granted  a  "  crown  of  glory,"  the  reward  of  those 
who  are  "  partakers  of  the  sufferings  of  Christ." 


SECTION  II. 
"NEW  LIFE." 

Life  !  Life  !  eternal  life  ! 

Jesus  alone  is  the  giver  ! 
Life  !  Life  !  abundant  life  ! 

Glory  to  Jesus  for  ever." 


CHAPTER  I. 
NEW  LIFE  EMERGING. 

"  God,  Who  commanded  the  light  to  shine  out  of   darkness." 

2  Cor.  iv.  6. 

IN  the  midst  of  the  suffering  and  death  the  new  shoots 
began  to  appear.  God  never  lays  upon  man  more  than  he 
can  bear,  no  matter  how  great  the  calamity.  He  was 
working  His  wonderful  purposes  out  and  preparing 
another  of  His  chosen  servants  to  carry  on  His  work. 
When  the  time  was  darkest  on  the  Field,  a  little  company 
of  His  faithful  ones  met  in  Philadelphia,  U.S.A.,  to 
consider  and  pray  over  what  was  best  to  be  done.  The 
Rev.  A.  T.  Pierson  was  present  at  the  conference.  After 
hearing  the  entire  history  of  the  Africa  Inland  Mission, 
he  remarked  (i)  That  the  Mission  had  not  met  with 
greater  difficulty  nor  hindrance  than  any  other  mission 
that  had  sought  to  be  wholly  used  of  God  :  (2)  That  he 
felt  that  all  the  difficulties  were  the  opposition  of  the 
adversary,  and  not  the  manifestation  of  God's  displeasure  : 
(3)  That  we  ought,  humbly  walking  with  God,  to  go 
forward.  God  was  no  doubt  seeking  to  test  the  faith- 
fulness of  His  servants  and  these  lessons  came  to 
strengthen  rather  than  to  weaken.  Only  as  those  to 
whom  the  testing  came  laid  hold  on  God's  promises  in 
mighty  faith  would  He  be  able  to  bless  in  opening  up  the 
great  Dark  Continent  to  His  marvellous  light.  His 
words  much  encouraged  those  responsible  in  the  Home- 
land. 

27 


28 

On  the  death  of  Peter  Scott,  Rev.  Charles  E.  Hurlburt, 
then  President  of  the  Home  Council,  was  unanimously 
elected  General  Director  of  the  Mission.  It  was  soon 
found  necessary  that  he  should  pay  an  immediate  visit  to 
the  Field.  He  sailed  on  October  i6th,  1898,  with  Mr. 


REV.  C.    E.    HURLBURT. 


Bangert,  whose  subsequent  experiences  have  already  been 
related  on  p.  2 iff.  They  made  their  journey  at  the  time 
of  the  most  awful  ravages  of  the  men-eating  lions  of 
Tsavo.  Colonel  Patterson,  an  engineer,  gives  a  full  and 
graphic  account  of  these  terrible  beasts,  in  his  book, 
entitled  "  The  Man-Eaters  of  Tsavo."  It  seems  strange 


29 

that  these  horrible  scenes,  which  were  unknown  before, 
should  come  at  a  time  when  other  calamities  were  about 
to  take  place,  namely  the  Masai  cattle  plague,  and  the 
still  more  awful  famine  amongst  the  Akamba. 

Mr.   Hurlburt,  on  arrival  at    Kangundo,    spent    two 
months  in  careful  studv  of  conditions  on  the  Field,  and 


GROUP    OF    NATIVE    GIRLS    AT    KIJABE, 
including   some    of    the    Orphan    Children    handed    over   by    the    Government. 

then  returned  to  America  fired  with  a  holy  zeal  to  win  for 
God  the  degraded  heathen  he  had  seen  around  him  in  the 
dark  continent.  In  October,  1899,  the  lonely  worker 
at  Kangundo  was  cheered  by  the  coming  of  Mr.  C.  F. 
Johnston  and  Mr.  Elmer  Bartholomew.  It  is  doubtful  if 
reinforcement  were  ever  more  welcome  than  were  those  to 


30 

Mr.  Bangert,  who,  in  his  loneliness  and  suffering,  had  been 
earnestly  praying  for  months  that  God  would  send  some 
one  to  be  with  him  in  his  work.  There  was,  no  doubt, 
earnest  prayer  going  up  in  many  places  for  the  work  at 
the  time,  but  who  can  say  to  what  extent  the  burning 
petitions  offered  in  great  weakness  and  utter  loneliness 
in  the  midst  of  overwhelming  need,  by  the  only  survivor 
on  the  Field,  have  brought  about  the  marvellous  success 
which  has  since  come  to  the  Africa  Inland  Mission  ? 

The  dark  clouds  lifted ;  the  awful  results  of  the 
famine  began  to  clear  away  and  new  life  in  the  work 
became  manifest. 

In  the  early  part  of  1900,  the  British  Government 
handed  over  to  our  Missionaries  about  twenty-five 
orphan  children,  survivors  of  the  famine.  Most  of  them 
remained  in  the  Mission  a  number  of  years,  some  finally 
becoming  successful  teachers  in  the  school  at  Kijabe. 

The  first  chapel  was  built  and  translations  in  the 
Akamba  language  were  made  so  that  regular  services 
could  be  held  in  that  tongue. 

Xot  only  was  great  blessing  coming  to  the  work  on  the 
Field,  but  greater  still  to  the  work  in  the  Homeland. 
Candidates  were  being  prepared,  a  new  statement  of  the 
plans  and  policy  of  the  Mission  was  being  published,  and 
also  a  brief  history  of  the  work. 

A  party  arrived  at  Mombasa  on  December  nth,  1901, 
including  Rev.  Chas.  E.  and  Mrs.  Hurlburt  and  their  five 
children.  With  the  arrival  of  this  family  on  the  Field 
began  an  entirely  new  life  for  the  mission.  The  cold, 
dreary,  lonely  life  was  transformed  into  the  real  joys  of 
home.  Only  those  whose  privilege  it  was  to  live  with  the 
Hurlburt  family  in  those  early  days,  can  testify  to  what 
extent  the  pangs  and  heart-aches  of  being  away  from  home 
and  friends  in  a  strange  and  far  off  land  were  dispelled  ! 


Mr.  Hurlburt  speaking  of  God's  faithfulness  in  bringing 
them  out,  writes  at  that  time  : — 

"  God  heard  our  cry,  and,  without  any  appeal  save  to 
Him,  opened  the  way  for  us  to  go.  With  innumerable 
signs  He  answered  prayer  and  confirmed  the  word  which 
He  had  spoken  to  our  hearts.  .  .  Every  inch  and 
every  step  has  been  gained  through  prayer  alone.  First 
the  house  on  the  Field  was  provided  for,  then  with 
nothing  left,  prayer  was  made  for  the  passage  money. 
With  this  provided  we  asked  for  needed  equipment,  and 
from  day  to  day  the  need  was  met.  The  specific  answers 
to  prayer  which  were  beyond  the  possibility  of  human 
connivance  would  require  a  considerable  volume  for  their 
rehearsal." 

Was  there  not  every  evidence  that  out  of  the  furnace 
of  suffering,  God  was  bringing  forth  the  pure  gold  ? 

Only  a  short  time  before  this,  Mr.  Bangert  was  waiting 
alone  mid  most  terrible  surroundings,  at  the  very  spot 
where  now  there  was  a  company  of  twelve,  enjoying  the 
bright  and  cheery  influence  of  home  life.  Who  could 
not  now  look  forward  with  hope  and  confidence,  expect- 
ing great  blessing  in  the  near  future  !  God  proved 
faithful  to  His  promises.  In  the  short  period  of  ten  years 
time,  new  workers  for  the  Africa  Inland  Mission  were 
pushing  on  beyond  British  East  Africa,  into  German  East 
Africa,  and  eventually  far  on  into  the  Belgian  Congo 
beyond  Lake  Albert. 


CHAPTER  II. 
THE  LIFE  GROWING. 

"First  the  blade,  then  the  ear,  after  that  the  full  corn  in  the 
ear." — Mark  iv.  28. 

IMMEDIATELY  upon  his  arrival  on  the  Field,  Mr.  Hurlburt 
began  to  make  plans  to  extend  the  work.     In  little  more 


GROUP    OF    KIKUYU    PEOPLE. 
32 


33 

than  a  year  three  new  stations  had  been  opened,  amongst 
the  Agikuyu  at  Ngenda,  Kambui,  and  amongst  the 
Akamba  at  Machakos  ;  several  converts  had  been 
baptised,  and  new  missionaries  welcomed.  In  1903,  it 
was  thought  necessary  to  change  the  headquarters  of  the 
Mission.  The  Uganda  railway  to  Lake  Victoria  was 
completed.  Nairobi  was  becoming  a  flourishing  little 
town,  and  the  country  was  beginning  to  go  ahead.  It 
seemed  necessary  for  the  headquarters  of  the  Mission  to 
come  into  closer  touch  with  the  new  life  that  was  being 
developed.  Kijabe  was  chosen  and  a  picturesque  site 
found  only  three  miles  from  the  railway  station,  and 
about  forty  miles  north-west  of  Nairobi.  Mr.  Hurlburt's 
family  moved  here  on  August  loth,  1903. 

From  this  station  Mr.  Stauffacher  commenced  work 
amongst  the  Masai,  the  tribe  that  had  been  the  terror  of 
all  East  Africa,  but  which  was  at  this  time  completely 
broken  by  small-pox  and  cattle  plague  and  subdued  by 
the  British  government.  They  were  roaming  over  the 
plains  about  Naivasha  spending  part  of  the  year  in  the 
Kidong  Valley  near  Kijabe. 

The  frequent  moving  of  the  Masai  tribe  by  the  Govern- 
ment and  their  own  roving  nature  has  made  the  work 
amongst  them  difficult.  They  are  composed  however  of 
the  most  excellent  material,  as  has  been  proved  by  the 
lives  of  Tagi  and  Mulungit.  Tagi  was  so  bright  that  he 
was  able  to  finish  reading  the  New  Testament  in  Swahili 
three  months  after  he  began  his  first  attempt  at  school 
work.  He  refused  a  most  flattering  position  from  the 
government,  preferring  to  remain  in  the  Mission,  where  he 
is  now  being  largely  used  in  translation  work.  Mulungit 
was  the  chosen  chief  of  the  tribe,  but  he  put  aside  all 
earthly  honour  to  become  a  follower  of  the  meek  and 
lowly  Jesus.  He  suffered  much  persecution  from  his 


36 

people,  which  caused  a  relapse  at  one  time,  but  he  was 
fully  restored  and  is  now  an  evangelist  to  his  tribe. 


It  is  too  late  for  me  ;     teach   my  children  !  " 

The  work  vibrating  with  its  new  life  grew  steadily. 
New  stations  were  opened  up  amongst  the  Akamba  and 
Agikuyu,  new  chapels  built,  schools  opened,  native 


37 

Christians  baptised  and  fresh  reinforcements  arrived  each 
year.  These  latter  made  further  extension  possible. 
In  1909,  Nasa,  in  German  East  Africa,  was  handed  over 
to  the  Africa  Inland  Mission  by  the  Church  Missionary 
Society.  From  there,  the  work  at  Nera  was  opened  in 
1910,  and  at  Chamagasa  in  1911,  and  Busia  in  1913. 

In  British  East  Africa  we  have  advanced  northward. 
In  1907,  Mr.  Hurlburt  with  several  of  the  missionaries 
visited  the  Kamasia  country  and  Lake  Baringo.  As  a 
result  of  this  journey  Kapropita  amongst  the  Kamasia, 
and  Kilombe  amongst  the  II  Uashin  Gishu  were  occupied 
in  1914  ;  Aldai  (Nandi)  and  Mutee  (II  Geyo)  in  1915. 

The  long  lapse  between  the  exploration  journey  and  the 
opening  up  of  these  stations  will  be  noted.  Again  and 
again  the  request  came  from  the  various  tribes  visited,  that 
the  white  man  would  settle  amongst  them  and  teach 
them.  What  then  was  the  cause  of  the  delay  ?  Does  not 
the  answer  lie  with  the  Church  of  God  in  the  Homelands  ? 
If  all  Christians  were  alive  to  their  responsibilities  and 
privileges  in  spreading  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  in 
heathen  lands,  belated  missionaries  would  not  have  to  hear 
the  sad  cry,  "  It  is  too  late  for  me  ;  teach  my  children  !  " 
(This  was  said  by  a  native  who  brought  his  two  little  ones 
to  be  trained  at  Kijabe.).  See  photo,  on  opposite  page. 

Notwithstanding  the  tardiness  of  professing  Christians 
in  the  more  favoured  lands  God  is  using  the  lives  laid  at 
his  disposal  for  the  development  of  the  work.  The 
"  corn  "  is  spreading  over  the  country — the  precious  fruit 
of  that  first  "  grain  "  that  fell  into  the  ground  and  died  ! 

To  carry  out  Mr.  Scott's  original  intention  of  opening 
up  a  chain  of  stations  from  British  East  Africa  in  a  north- 
westerly direction,  finally  to  reach  as  far  as  Lake  Chad, 
Mr.  Hurlburt 's  thoughts  began  to  turn  towards  the  North 
Belgian  Congo.  Ex-President  Roosevelt,  when  he  visited 


38 

the  country  in  1909,  was  instrumental  in  obtaining  from 
the  Belgian  Government  permission  for  the  Africa  Inland 
Mission  to  open  up  work  in  this  territory.  An  exploration 


AZANDI   MEN    AND   REV.   G.   FRED   B.   MORRIS. 

tour  was  made  in  1910.  In  1912,  a  mission  station  was 
opened  at  Mahagi  amongst  the  Alur  tribe.  From  there 
the  Mission  pressed  on  to  Dungu,  about  300  miles  from 


39 

Mahagi  and  work  was  commenced  amongst  the  Azandi 
tribe  in  1913.  Since  then  stations  have  been  opened  at 
Bafuka  and  Yakaluku  (Azandi),  and  two  out-stations  from 


SONS  OF   RENZI 
(Azandi  Chief),  training  at  Dungu   Mission  Station. 

Kacengu  near  the  chiefs  Rija  and  Songa  (Alur)  in  1915. 
In  1915,  a  further  advance  has  been  made  in  the  Congo 


4o 

and  now  two  more  wild  tribes,  the  Lubgwara  and  Logo, 
are  beginning  to  have  the  Gospel  preached  to  them.  The 
stations  amongst  these  tribes  are  called  Nyangarakata 
and  Moldisa  (or  Misa). 

It  is  comparatively  easy  to  write  of  this  extension  work, 
but  words  can  hardly  describe  the  hardships  encountered 
by  our  pioneer  missionaries.  Every  step  has  been 
resisted  by  the  enemy  of  souls.  They  have  been  faced 
with  numerous  difficulties,  such  as  those  of  transport 
and  travel,  roughness  of  the  way,  desertion  of  porters, 
opposition  of  natives,  storms  (blowing  down  tents  at 
night  and  sweeping  off  the  roofs  of  newly-made  houses), 
and  fevers.  Perhaps  one  of  the  greatest  difficulties  of 
all  is  that  of  acquiring  a  new  and  barbarous  language. 
Where  there  are  no  books  to  help,  the  only  way  is  to  get 
the  words  one  by  one  from  the  natives.  But  in  spite 
of  all,  they  are  pressing  through  into  the  dark  interior  ! 
The  Mission  continues  to  grow,  and  we  are  triumphing  over 
all  difficulties  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  !  Hallelujah  ! 

We  now  work  (1917)  among  thirteen  different  tribes, 
speaking  ten  different  languages  : — Akamba,  Kikuyu, 
Masai,  II  Uashin  Gishu,  Kamasia,  Nandi,  II  Geyo  and 
Luo  in  British  East  Africa ;  Wanyamwezi  in  (late) 
German  East  Africa  ;  Alur,  Azandi,  Lugbwara  and  Logo 
in  Belgian  Congo.  We  have  about  164  missionaries  and 
thirty  mission  stations. 


CHAPTER  III. 
FRUIT  OF  THE  NEW  LIFE. 

"  That  which  thou  sowest  is  not  quickened  except  it  die." 

i  Corinthians  xv.  36. 
"  If  it  die,  it  bringeth  forth  much  fruit." — John  xii  24. 

THIS  chapter  could  be  a  book  in  itself  as  there  is  precious 
fruit  to  His  glory  on  all  the  Africa  Inland  Mission 
Stations,  on  some  abundant  fruit.  It  is  not  my  intention 
to  mention  the  number  of  converts  who  are  church 
members,  and  of  those  preparing  for  baptism.  This  is 
dangerous  and  often  misleading,  especially  where  the 
African  is  concerned.  I  propose  rather  to  give  some 
instances  from  the  lives  of  our  professing  Christians  which 
will  show  that  the  new  life  in  them  is  manifest  by  the 
"fruit.' 

There  is  conviction  of  sin.  One  young  man,  with  whom 
the  Spirit  was  dealing  very  definitely,  bringing  to  his 
remembrance  past  sins,  confessed  that  when  he  was  a  boy 
he  stole  a  sheep  from  a  man,  and  also  two  rupees  from 
another. 

Some  have  confessed  to  stealing  rupees  from  mission- 
aries and  others  ;  another  to  stealing  an  axe  from  a 
settler  ;  others  to  taking  cakes,  etc.,  etc.  But  confession 
has  not  been  the  only  result  ;  for,  as  much  as  lay  in  their 
power,  restitution  has  been  made,  the  articles  being 
restored,  and  in  the  case  of  the  sheep  another  given. 

They  give  up  old  habits  and  heathen  ways  of  decorating 
themselves.  They  have  been  known  to  bring  their 
tobacco  and  burn  it  publicly  in  the  chapel.  Their  bead 


43 

ornaments  are  left  oft  and  often  brought  to  the  mission- 
aries, and  this  without  their  being  told  to  do  so. 

They  give  to  God.     They  set  aside  their  tenth.     Two 
lads  employed  in  house  work  on  one  of  the  stations  came 


One  of  the  young  men  who  said:    "  We  do  not  want 
to  rob  God,"  with   his  young  bride. 

to  the  missionary  saying,  "  Bwana,  we  do  not  want  to  rob 
God  (Mai.  iii.  8),  and  when  you  give  us  our  wages  we  have 
many  affairs  and  we  may  want  the  money ;  will  you 
therefore  always  keep  back  the  tenth  for  God  ?  " 


44 

Some  give  over  and  above  the  tenth.  One  little  lad 
brought  a  rupee  to  our  Director  one  day,  saying,  "  Please 
I  want  to  give  this  to  God."  It  was  about  half  his  wage 
for  a  month  !  Money  given  by  the  native  Christians  is 


KIKUYU   CHRISTIAN    WOMAN,    NYAKEIRA, 
the  first   Bible-woman  to   her  tribe. 

mostly  sent  away  to  other  lands  and    societies.      This 
is  an  effort  to  develop  in  them  an  interest  in  world-wide 
evangelism.     Some  has  been  sent  for  work  amongst  the 
Jews,  some  to  South  America,  some  to  Bible  Societies. 
They  bear  persecution.     One  of  the  Wanyamwezi  con- 


45 

verts  was  out  with  others  preaching  in  a  village  ;  three 
natives  set  on  him  and  beat  him  with  clubs.  He  came 
home  with  a  big  cut  over  the  eye  and  an  ugly  welt  on  his 
body,  saying,  "  God  was  with  us  in  mighty  power  so  Satan 
had  to  do  something." 
A  Kikuyu  young  woman  was  led  out  into  the  bush  by 


MULUNGIT. 

her  husband  and  thrown  on  the  ground  ;  he  placed  his 
fingers  on  her  throat  and  threatened  to  strangle  her  if  she 
would  not  renounce  her  new  religion  and  give  up  going  to 
the  Mission.  She  remained  true  and  loyal  to  Jesus 
through  the  terrible  ordeal,  and  was  left  in  the  bush  for 
dead  ;  but  she  was  only  unconscious  and  when  she  came 
to,  escaped  to  the  Mission  station. 


46 

They  trust  God.  Mulungit  the  Masai  "  boy  "  when  being 
persecuted  by  his  people  was  threatened  to  be  speared, 
cursed  and  poisoned.  During  one  of  these  trying  times 
he  asked  to  see  the  missionary's  watch.  Holding  it  in 
his  hand,  he  said  :  "  Can  you  make  a  watch  ?  "  "  Xo," 
was  the  reply,  "  but  we  have  clever  men  in  our  home 
countries  than  can."  "  The  man  who  made  this  watch," 
continued  Mulungit,  "  knows  all  about  it,  does  he  not  ? 
If  he  wishes  to  stop  it,  he  can ;  if  he  wants  it  to  go,  can  he 
not  make  it  go  ?  "  Then  applying  the  argument  he  said  : 
'  Just  so,  God  made  these  '  boys  '  ;  He  can  prevent  them 
from  putting  poison  into  my  food,  and  He  can  keep  them 
from  spearing  me  !  " 

They  return  good  for  evil.  A  young  girl  was  hung  up 
in  a  tree  by  her  little  finger,  by  her  brother.  The  finger 
was  torn  from  her  hand.  When  she  became  a  Christian 
she  asked  to  be  allowed  to  go  and  cook  food  for  the  brother 
who  had  treated  her  so  cruelly. 

They  give  God  the  right  place.  A  chief  of  the  Alur  tribe 
in  the  Belgian  Congo  prayed,  "  God,  our  Father,  when  the 
white  people  first  came,  they  built  a  house,  and  said  it 
was  your  house,  God,  but  we  could  not  see  You,  and  said, 
You  were  deceiving  us  ;  now  we  know  You  are  here. 
The  white  people  also  gathered  our  children  together  and 
taught  them  to  sing  and  pray,  but  we  said  they  were 
deceiving  our  children  ;  now  we  know  the}'  are  not.  We 
know  Your  words  are  true  words.  Some  people  in  the 
villages  say  Your  words  are  not  true  words.  We  pray  for 
them.  Help  them  to  believe  in  You.  In  the  past  we 
said  that  the  land  was  ours.  Now  we  know  the  land  is 
Yours  because  You  made  it  ;  the  trees  are  Yours  because 
You  made  them  ;  the  cows,  sheep  and  goats  are  Yours. 
We  thought  they  were  ours,  but  now  we  know  they  are 
all  Yours.  Help  us  to  overcome  Satan.  Help  us  to  tell 


47 

Your  words  to  others.  Help  us  that  shyness  may  not  hurt 
us  and  prevent  us  from  telling  Your  words  to  others. 
God,  You  saved  us.  You  have  put  happiness  in  us,  God 
our  Father." 


MISS   MADGE   HURST  (now   Mrs.    Fred  Morris)    amongst  the  ALUR. 


They  go  out  to  spread  the  good  news  of  the  Gospel  among 
their  own  people  and  are  zealous  for  souls.  We  have 
many  Christian  natives  now  as  evangelists,  in  most  of  the 
tribes  amongst  whom  the  Africa  Inland  Mission  works, 
but  perhaps  this  phase  of  the  work  is  most  marked  in 
that  part  of  East  Africa  that  was  known  as  German  East 


48 

Africa.  Out  of  one  church  (Nasa)  of  only  seventy-six 
members,  twenty  have  gone  to  preach  to  their  tribesmen. 
From  another  German  East  Africa  station  we  had  this 
report  ;  "  Last  Sunday  with  no  thought  of  pre-arrange- 
ment  or  preparation  for  the  event,  nine  men  (eight  of 


whom  five  months  before  had  probably  never  heard  of  the 
name  of  Jesus),  rose  one  after  another  in  our  morning 
service  and  gave  their  hearts  to  Christ.  Their  testimony 
was  clear,  earnest  and  convincing.  Six  of  them  have  been 
taught  daily  in  our  Mission  School  and  have  endured 


49 

considerable  persecution.  Two  are  fruits  of  the  medical 
work,  and  the  ninth  has  been  taught  at  Nasa,  but  had 
steadily  refused  to  give  himself  to  Christ.  It  was  a 
wonderful  morning  of  blessing.  Our  Christian  boys  were 
radiant,  and  their  hearts  sang  with  ours.  By  way  of 
contrast  in  the  afternoon,  they  all  scattered  to  take  the 
Word  into  the  villages." 

Tagi,  a  Masai  evangelist,  sent  an  earnest  appeal  to  the 
people  of  Great  Britain  to  pray  for  his  father,  brothers, 
step-mother  and  step-sisters.  He  wrote  :  "  I  want  you  to 
to  pray  for  me  that  God  will  help  me  to  lead  many  people 
to  Jesus.  There  are  10,000  Masai  people  and  only  we  four 
Macai  boys  to  tell  them.  We  take  our  tents  and  two  of  us 
go  together  and  stay  among  them  for  a  month  at  a  time, 
preaching  to  them." 

Boys  have  been  known  to  get  up  at  5  a.m.  for  prayer  and 
then  go  into  the  villages  to  spread  the  Good  News  before 
the  day's  work  begins. 

They  have  power  in  prayer.  Among  many  instances 
that  could  be  recorded  here,  I  will  give  one  written  by 
Rev.  Lee  H.  Downing  : — "  A  lad,  after  receiving  his 
month's  pay,  told  me  he  had  decided  to  leave,  and 
neither  prayer  nor  argument  could  induce  him  to  stay. 
Some  of  the  Christians  told  him  he  would  soon  be  back  ; 
he  assured  them  he  would  not.  It  was  three  days  before 
our  Day  of  Prayer.  In  the  afternoon  session,  he  was  the 
special  subject  of  prayer.  One  boy  prayed  :  "  Lord,  send 
him  back,  send  him  back  before  he  finds  work  for  his 
hands  in  Nairobi;  send  him  back  to-day,  Lord."  Mr. 
Downing  thought  in  his  heart,  '  That  is  impossible  ; 
there  is  no  train,"  and  instantly  felt  condemned  as  he 
remembered  that  nothing  was  impossible  with  God.  The 
next  morning  one  of  the  Christian  boys  came  to  him  and 
said  "  M is  back."  He  had  come  back  the  night  be- 


50 

fore,  but  being  late  he  had  not  liked  to  disturb  anyone. 
He  handed  Mr.  Downing  a  long  letter  of  confession  ;  he 
said  he  was  afraid  he  would  not  be  strong  enough  to  tell 
him  all,  so  he  had  written  it.  He  was  then  asked  "  When 
did  you  write  this  letter  ?  "  "  About  three  o'clock." 
"  The  hour  we  were  at  prayer  !  "  The  boy  related  how  he 
could  not  get  work  in  Nairobi,  so  he  loafed  about  with  a 
friend.  Then  he  was  taken  very  ill  and  could  not  sleep  ; 
so  when  able  he  decided  to  go  back  to  Kijabe  Railway 
Station  (three  miles  from  the  mission)  and  look  for  a 
position  with  a  hunting  party.  He  found  just  what  he 
wanted  ;  the  hunter  was  most  anxious  to  have  him  as  he 
could  speak  English  and  cook.  A  number  of  rupees 
was  offered,  but  why  could  he  not  accept  ?  Hardly 
understanding,  he  felt  a  strong  restraint  on  him  (the  little 
company  were  praying  at  the  mission  station  "  send  him 
back  before  he  finds  work  for  his  hands  ").  He  told  the 
hunter  he  would  give  him  his  answer  later.  He  went 
back  to  a  hut  and  there  he  was  convicted  of  his  sin  and 
wrote  the  letter  and  returned  to  the  mission  that 
evening  (he  had  come  on  the  train  the  day  before). 

Revival  movements  are  taking  place  on  several  of  the 
stations.  At  Kacengu  on  the  shores  of  Lake  Albert, 
amongst  the  Alur  tribe,  in  1915,  on  Easter  Sunday  morning 
in  the  chapel,  an  invitation  was  given  to  any  who  were 
willing  to  forsake  their  heathen  ways  and  follow  Christ, 
to  come  forward  and  kneel  in  the  front.  Sixty  responded. 
This  movement  went  on  week  by  week  until  the  number 
had  reached  150.  Perhaps  it  was  the  more  remarkable 
on  this  station  as  mission  work  had  only  been  started 
there  less  than  three  years  before  ! 

From  Kinyona  in  the  same  year  a  missionary  writes  : 
"  The  awakening  amongst  the  people  is  almost  unbeliev- 
able. It  is  the  easiest  thing  in  the  world  to  speak  to  them. 


(l 

S  x 


52 

The  Spirit  just  seems  to  carry  one  out  of  one's  self.  I  see 
now  that  for  which  I  have  prayed  ever  since  I  came  to 
Africa.  A  number  have  professed  to  give  themselves 
to  Christ  on  this  station." 

From  Kijabe  another  writes  in  January,  1916  :  "  Since 
September  iqth,  (1915)  fifty  have  publicly  confessed 
Christ  in  the  Chapel  services.  I  think  some  have 
come  forward  every  Sunday  since  that  date." 

From  Mukaa,  amongst  the  Akamba  tribe,  we  heard  at 
the  close  of  1916,  that  at  the  dedication  service  of  the 
new  chapel  318  were  present.  When  an  opportunity  was 
given  for  any  who  wished  to  confess  Christ  to  rise,  thirty- 
four  stood  up.  How  we  praise  God  for  His  goodness  and 
His  wonder-working  power  that  out  of  one  grain  of  wheat 
fallen  into  the  ground,  such  precious  fruit  could  spring 
forth  ! 

Reader,  what  of  your  life  ?  Are  you  hugging  it  for 
yourself  ?  If  so  you  will  find  it  described  by  our  Lord  as 
a  lost  life.  "  He  that  loveth  his  life  shall  lose  it."  But  if 
laid  at  His  feet  in  full,  whole-hearted  surrender  for  all 
the  Divine  will  and  purpose  to  be  carried  out  through  it, 
it  can  bring  forth  its  hundredfold  to  the  glory  of  God  ! 
Hallelujah  ! 

Time  is  short !  JESUS  is  COMING  !  Will  you  have  an 
abundant  entrance  into  the  Kingdom  (i  Peter  i.  n)  ? 


CHAPTER  IV. 

HARVEST  PROSPECTS,  AND  THE  CALL  TO 
ADVANCE. 

"  Lift  up  your  eyes  and  look  on  the  fields,  for  they  are  white 
already  to  harvest." — -John  iv.  35. 

"  Speak  unto  the  children  of  Israel  that  they  go  forward." 

Exodus  xiv.   15. 

THE  story  has  been  told,  and  now  the  call  comes  to  us  to 
"lift  up  our  eyes  and  look  " 

(1)  On  the  Fields  where  the  "  seed  "  has  been  sown  ; 
we  have  ?een  "  they  are  white  already  to  harvest."     The 
precious  fruit  is  being  gathered  in  but  it  promises  to  be  so 
abundant  that  more  sanctified,  Spirit-filled  reapers    are 
needed.     What   a   precious   service   to   be   called   into  ! 
May  many  get  the  vision  of  that  waving,  golden  grain, 
waiting  for  us  !     Ours  may  be  the  privilege  of  putting  in 
the  sickle  and  presenting  the  "  hundredfold  "    of    that 
first  life  laid  down  at  the  Master's  feet  (that  of  the  Founder 
of  the  Africa  Inland  Mission).     We  shall    receive    our 
wages  and  he  that  sowed  and  we  that  reap  will  rejoice 
together  round  the  Throne  !     Glory  ! 

"  Bringing  in  the  sheaves,  bringing  in  the  sheaves, 
We  shall  come  rejoicing,  bringing  in  the  sheaves  !  " 

(2)  On  the  unreached  tribes.     Oh,  that  we  might  get 
the  vision  of  those  fifty  millions  or  more  still  lying  in 
heathen  darkness  !     The  door  is  wide,  open  to  reach  them. 
Travelling    is    made    comparatively    easy ;     there     are 
steamers  on  the  lakes,  railways,  and  even  motor  roads   in 
"he  interior  of  the  dark  continent.     Through  this  open 

53 


54 

door  one  sees  millions  of  people  with  sad  despairing  faces, 
holding  out  their  hands  to  us,  and  one  hears  their  bitter 
cry  "  Come  over  and  help  us  before  it  is  too  late." 

One  day  in  London  when  alone  with  God  preparing  for 
a  missionary  message  I  was  disturbed  by  piercing  cries 
proceeding  from  the  street.  Looking  out  of  my  window, 
I  saw  a  little  girl  of  about  three  years  old  on  the  pavement 
holding  out  her  hands  piteously  to  her  mother,  a  well 
dressed  young  woman.  Instead  of  the  mother-love  one 
would  have  expected  in  response  to  that  piteous  appeal, 
the  hands  were  roughly  pushed  on  one  side.  All  down 
the  road  I  watched  the  little  form,  still  with  those  out- 
stretched hands,  still  with  that  piteous  cry  !  It  pierced 
my  heart,  but  through  it  God  gave  me  my  missionary 
message.  Through  the  wide  open  door  of  the  Dark 
Continent  I  had  a  fresh  vision  of  those  sad  despairing 
faces,  and  of  their  hands  held  out  to  tts  in  their  darkness  ! 
Their  cries,  owing  to  the  many  cruelties  practised  upon 
them,  pierced  deeper  into  my  heart.  Reader,  those  hands 
are  held  out  to  you  just  now  ;  what  are  you  doing  to 
them  ?  Pushing  them  roughly  from  you  ?  Perhaps 
not,  and  yet  you  may  be  standing  "  aloof  "  '(Obad.  u 
R.V.M.)  as  though  it  were  no  concern  of  yours,  or  you 
may  be  quieting  your  conscience  with  an  occasional 
subscription  or  a  coin  dropped  on  to  a  collection  plate. 
'  The  day  of  the  Lord  is  near  ...  as  thou  hast 
done,  it  shall  be  done  unto  thee  "  (Obad.  15).  Will  you  let 
those  cries  pierce  your  heart  and  lay  yourself  (whatever 
the  cost)  in  whole-hearted  devotion  at  the  Saviour's  feet, 
ready  to  respond  to  that  piteous  wailing,  in  whatever  way 
He  shall  show  you  ? 

The  cries  of  those  without  hands,  cut  off  as  a  punish- 
ment for  theft,  of  others  without  ears,  cut  off  for 
disobedience  ;  of  that  poor  woman  bound  to  a  stake 


55 

being  cruelly  beaten  to  death,  and  of  many  similar 
cases,  are  now  entering  the  ears  of  God.  At  the  same 
time  your  song  of  praise  may  be  going  up  from  some 
Convention  meeting  for  all  He  has  done  for  you.  He  is 
looking  down  on  you  feeling  you  are  the  one  to  help  to 
silence  those  cries.  Never  shall  we  be  used  to  silence 
them  except  by  sacrifice.  We  want  the  tender  com- 
passionate heart  of  Jesus,  Who  when  He  beheld  the  sin 
and  degradation  of  Jerusalem  could  weep.  His  was  a 
heart  brimming  over  with  love  that  poured  itself  out  for 
the  salvation  of  those  for  whom  He  wept  !  Shall  we  pray 

"  Give  me  a  heart  like  Thine  ! 
By  Thy  wonderful  power, 
By  Thy  grace  every  hour, 
Give  me  a  heart  like  Thine  ?  " 

It  will  be  (a)  a  clean  heart,  the  selfishness  cleansed  out 
of  it ;  (b)  a  tender  heart ;  (c)  a  heart  full  of  God's  love, 
the  love  that  sacrificed  His  all ! 

The  tribes  assigned  to  the  Africa  Inland  Mission  in  the 
north  of  British  East  Africa  are  the  Njamus,  Sambur, 
Rendili,  Suk  and  Marquet.  These  are  entirely  without 
the  Gospel,  waiting  for  us.  Other  waiting  tribes  in  the 
Belgian  Congo  are  the  Itura,  Balega,  Bahema  and  the 
Balendu.  These  have  been  visited  by  our  Director 
Rev.  C.  E.  Hurlburt.  Others  he  mentions  in  the 
Congo  without  the  Gospel  are  the  Ndo,  Bari,  Kebu,  Madi, 
Mungutu,  Bangba,  Momvu  and  the  Kakua.  Besides 
these  Mr.  Hurlburt  mentions  the  urgent  need  for 
more  workers  to  open  up  new  stations  amongst  the  tribes 
we  have  already  entered  and  more  efficiently  to  man  the 
stations  already  occupied.  Making  an  earnest  appeal 
for  large  numbers  to  respond  he  writes,  "  I  recognise  the 
danger  of  a  too  rapid  growth,  but  it  is  more  dangerous  to 
fail  to  be  ready  in  the  day  of  God's  power." 


AN  AFTERWORD. 
COMPILED  BY  A  MEMBER  OF  THE  COUNCIL* 


CHIEF  MISA  (Logo  Tribe.) 
Station  MOLDISA.          See  pp.  40,  83,  84,  85. 


CHAPTER  I. 
THE  WORK  IN  THE  BRITISH  ISLES. 

IN  the  preceding  sections  an  outline  has  been  given  of 
the  early  history  of  the  Africa  Inland  Mission.  The 
following  pages  will  trace  the  extension  of  the  work  to  the 
British  Isles  and  its  organisation  there.  An  attempt 
will  be  made  to  introduce  to  the  reader  the  British 
members  of  the  Mission,  most  of  whom  have  gone  out 
in  quite  recent  years.  The  object  of  referring  to  the 
personnel  in  detail  is  to  enlist  on  the  part  of  our  readers 
that  prayerful  and  intelligent  interest  in  individuals 
which  is  the  best  means  of  securing  God's  blessing  on  the 
work  as  a  whole  and  which  cannot  fail  to  come  back  in 
blessing  on  those  who  pray. 

Several  circumstances  combined  to  bring  about 
an  extension  of  the  work  to  the  United  Kingdom. 
The  founder  of  the  Mission  was  himself  a  Scotchman  and 
the  ties  which  connected  his  family  with  the  Homeland 
had  not  been  severed.  Peter  Cameron  Scott  had  heard 
and  read  of  the  Constitution  of  the  China  Inland  Mission 
which,  founded  on  faith  principles  in  this  country  by 
J.  Hudson  Taylor,  had  spread  to  the  continent  of  America. 
Scott  had  the  privilege  of  the  personal  acquaintance  of 
Mr.  Taylor,  whose  simple,  childlike  faith  deeply  impressed 
the  young  missionary.  He  was  greatly  blessed  and  his 
heart  yearned  to  follow  in  the  steps  of  the  veteran  servant 
of  Christ,  as  he  followed  his  Master. 

Another  contributory  cause  was  Peter  Scott's  visit  to- 
England  in  1895.  After  the  death  of  his  brother  John 


6o 

and  his  own  serious  breakdown  in  health  on  the  west  coast 
of  Africa  (page  12),  he  returned  to  America  via  England, 
and  stayed  for  a  little  while  with  friends  in  London. 
His  arrival  at  their  home  one  foggy  November  evening 
was  a  memorable  one.  It  happened  that  several  out- 
going missionaries  of  the  Christian  Alliance  (U.S.A.)  were 
assembled  in  the  drawing-room  of  these  friends.  Full 
of  fresh  zeal  and  enthusiasm  they  were  singing  hymns  and 
songs  of  praise.  In  the  midst  of  it  all  a  cab  drew  up  at 
the  door  and  Peter  Cameron  Scott  was  helped  out  of  it. 
Leaning  on  a  strong  arm  he  came  into  the  room.  The 
young  warrior,  returned  from  the  "  firing  line,"  bearing 
the  deep  scars  of  the  conflict  he  had  been  in,  sat  down 
amongst  the  outgoing  recruits.  Although  broken  in 
health  and  changed  in  appearance,  it  was  apparent  to 
those  who  knew  him  that  he  had  deepened  in  spirit. 
Looking  the  new  missionaries  in  the  face,  he  said,  "  Well, 
friends,  you  are  going  forth — I  have  come  back.  It  is  no 
child's  play  ;  it  is  a  battle  !  "  A  hush  fell  upon  the 
gathering  as  they  realised  afresh  the  insufficiency  of 
human  wisdom  and  strength,  and  were  cast  upon  God 
Whose  presence  was  solemnly  felt. 

In  the  days  that  followed,  Peter  Scott  had  time  to 
commune  with  God  and  was  strengthened.  He  was 
present  at  one  of  the  weekly  prayer  meetings  of  the 
China  Inland  Mission,  and  was  greatly  helped  through  it. 
Another  day  he  visited  Westminster  Abbey,  and  kneeling 
on  Livingstone's  grave,  he  again  dedicated  his  life  to 
God,  to  help  to  heal  the  "  open  sore  "  of  the  Dark 
Continent. 

Peter  Scott  being,  as  stated,  a  native  of  Scotland,  and 
having  friends  there  and  in  England,  it  naturally  followed 
that  the  seed  of  his  mission  should  be  sown  in  Great 
Britain.  The  soil  may  be  said  to  have  been  prepared  by 


6i 

Scott's  prayers  and  his  accounts  of  the  vast  untilled 
fields  of  Africa,  but  the  first  definite  seed-sowing  was  after 
the  pioneer  servant  had  been  called  to  his  rest,  when  the 
Rev.  C.  E.  Hurlburt  visited  England  in  July,  1904.  How 
often,  in  our  impatience,  we  are  inclined  to  think  "  The 
mills  of  God  grind  slowly  !  " 

A  short  missionary  address  delivered  at  Keswick  that 
year  by  Mr.  Hurlburt,  was  followed  by  the  welcome 
evidence  of  awakened  interest  in  the  shape  of  a  small 
Committee  formed  to  develop  the  work.  The  Rev.  J. 
Stuart  Holden,  of  St.  Paul's  Church,  Portman  Square, 
London,  accepted  the  position  of  Chairman ;  Miss 
Elizabeth  Parker-Brown  acted  as  Secretary  and  the  late 
Mr.  James  Brodie  became  Hon.  Treasurer.  Later,  Mr. 
Albert  A.  Head  and  Dr.  A.  C.  Dixon  consented  to  act  as 
referees. 

About  this  time  Miss  Mabel  Grimes  was  on  a  visit  to  her 
sister,  Mrs.  Crawford,  who,  with  her  husband,  Dr. 
Crawford,  was  working  in  British  East  Africa,  in  con- 
nection with  the  Church  Missionary  Society.  This  visit 
deepened  her  longing  to  become  a  missionary,  and  later  on, 
in  1906,  Miss  Grimes  joined  the  Africa  Inland  Mission 
while  still  in  Africa,  one  of  the  first  of  the  British  members 
of  the  Mission.  Her  call  may  be  accepted  as  God's 
gracious  answer  to  the  prayers  which  had  risen  to  Him  on 
behalf  of  the  work. 

Events  showed  that  the  call  was  not  to  end  thus. 
"  The  eyes  of  the  Lord  are  in  every  place,"  and  He 
saw  that  at  home  there  were  no  eye-witnesses  connected 
with  the  Mission  to  tell  of  the  clamant  wants  of  the 
heathen  in  British  East  Africa  and  neighbouring  countries. 
Early  in  1907  when  Miss  Grimes  was  at  Kijabe  engaged 
in  the  study  of  one  of  the  difficult  languages  of  the  local 
tribes,  she  became  deeply  impressed  with  the  feeling  that 


b2 

God  was  calling  her  back  to  England  to  make  known  the 
needs  of  the  work  to  Christians  in  the  Homeland.  "  How 
shall  they  hear  without  a  preacher  ?  ' '  After  much  prayer 
in  which  fellow  missionaries  and  the  General  Director, 
Mr.  Hurlburt  (who  was  at  Kijabe  at  the  time),  joined,  it 
was  arranged  that  she  should  return.  The  call  was 
confirmed  while  she  was  on  a  four  days'  journey  across 
country  to  say  farewell,  before  leaving,  to  her  sister.  One 
evening,  while  sitting  on  the  rocky  bank  of  a  beautiful 
river,  waiting  upon  God,  the  message  which  came  to  the 
prophet  Ezekiel  by  the  river  Chebar,  was  illuminated  for 
Miss  Grimes,  and  in  the  solitude  she  heard  God,  through 
His  word,  saying  :  "  Thou  art  not  sent  to  a  people  of  a 
strange  speech  and  of  a  hard  language.  .  .  Behold, 
I  have  made  thy  face  strong  against  their  faces  and  thy 
forehead  strong  against  their  foreheads  "  (Ezekiel  iii. 
5,  8).  With  this  seal  to  her  call,  she  left  for  England,  and 
for  nearly  eighteen  months  devoted  herself  to  deputation 
work  in  Britain,  God  supplying  all  her  needs  and  furnish- 
ing the  "  word  in  season  "  at  her  meetings. 

A  further  period  of  service,  covering  over  two  years 
in  Africa,  was  followed  by  a  serious  illness  and  break- 
down in  health,  and  once  more  Miss  Grimes  returned 
home  in  May,  1911.  Deputation  work,  correspondence 
and  editing  the  Prayer  Letters  have  occupied  her  up  to 
the  present  time,  all  of  which  have  been  greatly  blessed 
and  used  by  God  towards  the  growth  of  the  Mission  in 
Great  Britain  and  Ireland. 

From  1911  to  1912  the  Rev.  F.  B.  Morris,  B.A.,  curate 
of  St.  Paul's,  Portman  Square,  acted  as  Hon.  Secretary, 
and  when  his  call  came  for  service  on  the  field,  the  Rev. 
D.  P.  Robinson,  M.A.  (also  connected  with  St.  Paul's 
Church)  took  up  the  work,  devoting  the  principal  part  of 
his  time  to  the  steadily  increasing  duties  of  the  post. 


63 

About  this  time  the  Committee  was  strengthened  by  the 
addition  of  a  number  of  new  members,  many  of  them 
well-known  servants  of  Christ  and  commanding  the 
confidence  of  His  people,  and  all  warmly  interested  in 
Foreign  Mission  work  (see  inside  front  cover.) 

During  1913  the  Mission  was  indebted  to  the  kindness  of 
Dr.  Stuart  Holden  for  the  use  of  a  room  in  St.  Paul's 
Mission  Buildings,  in  which  the  business  was  conducted. 
More  space  being  required,  a  small  house  was  rented  in 
the  vicinity,  and  now  forms  the  "  local  habitation  "  of 
the  Mission  in  Great  Britain. 

Since  the  formation  of  the  new  Council  the  work  has 
gone  on  rapidly.  In  1911  there  were  only  two  British 
missionaries  on  the  field  ;  now,  in  1917,  there  are  twenty 
three,  who,  with  the  exception  of  a  few  honorary  workers, 
are  entirely  dependent  on  the  supplies  sent  in  for  them 
from  the  British  Isles. 

In  May,  1911,  the  Misses  Garratt  (of  Blackrock,  Dublin) 
came  into  touch  with  the  Mission,  and  through  them  the 
work  opened  up  in  Ireland,  Scotland,  and  Wales. 

Each  Council  has  complete  control  of  the  work  and 
finance  in  its  own  country  ;  the  branches  are  connected, 
however,  by  having  the  same  Constitution  and  by  Rev. 
C.  E.  Hurlburt,  who  as  General  Director,  is  over  the  work 
at  home  and  on  the  Field. 

There  are  now  sixty-six  Prayer  Centres  and  a  large 
Prayer  Union  of  1,600  members  in  the  United  Kingdom. 
We  believe  that  THE  MOST  IMPORTANT  PART  OF  THE  WORK 
is  PRAYER. 

God  help  us  to  be  faithful  in  doing  our  part  at  home 
so  that  those  on  the  field  may  not  suffer  by  our  slackness 
and  that  we  who  "  tarry  by  the  stuff  "  and  those  who  go 
to  the  forefront  of  the  battle  may  rejoice  together  in  the 
great  day  of  Victory  and  Reward. 


64 

Reader,  if  Gou  has  stirred  your  heart  and  given  you 
the  vision  of  Africa's  perishing  millions  during  the 
perusal  of  this  story,  will  YOU  help  us  in  this  way  and 
join  the  Prayer  Union  ?  To  keep  you  informed  as  to 
the  need  of  the  work  and  to  enable  you  to  pray  intelli- 
gently you  will  then  receive  the  bi-monthly  magazine, 
''  Hearing  and  Doing,"  in  which  will  be  incorporated  the 
Prayer  Union  Letter.  (See  form  on  page  93). 


MR.  JACK  BATSTONE  AND  SOME  OF  HIS  BOYS. 

(reading  from   left  to  right),  top  row :   Karanga,  Miani,  and  Galangba  (cook) ;    Mbe 
and"  Sunny  Jim  "  (helps  in  dispensary),  in  front.     AZANDI  tribe,  DUNGU  station. 
(See  p.  71.) 


CHAPTER  II. 

THE   BRITISH  MISSIONARIES  OF  THE  AFRICA 
INLAND  MISSION. 

"  Lord,  what  wilt  Thou  have  me  do  ?  " — Acts  ix.  5. 

THIS  chapter  is  to  introduce  to  you  our  British 
workers.  Some  of  the  channels  through  which  they  have 
come  to  us  are  St.  Paul's  Church,  Portman  Square, 
London  ;  Cambridge  University ;  the  Keswick  Con- 
vention ;  the  Faith  Mission  (Scotland  and  Ireland)  ;  the 
Glasgow  Bible  Training  Institute  ;  Miss  Camp's  Mission- 
ary Training  Home  (Bristol)  ;  Days  of  Prayer  held  by  the 
Mission ;  and  the  weekly  prayer  meeting  held  at 
Headquarters. 

A.— THE  BELGIAN  CONGO. 

To  the  following  band  of  workers  God  has  given  the 
honour  of  the  advance  work  in  the  North-East  Belgian 
Congo.  They  are  in  the  front  of  the  battle,  in  the  firing 
line.  They  cannot  hold  their  positions  or  advance  further 
into  the  untouched  tribes  without  our  constantly  sending 
them  supplies  and  reinforcements  and  upholding  them  in 
prayer. 

Miss  HARLAND,  although  one  of  the  British  workers, 
was  trained  at  the  Moody  Bible  Institute  at  Chicago. 
She  was  accepted  by  the  Council  in  Philadelphia  and 
sailed  for  the  field  in  1911.  She  was  one  of  the  first  party 
to  enter  the  N.E.  Belgian  Congo  (see  p.  38).  Her  work 
is  at  Kacengu,  on  the  western  shore  of  Lake  Albert 
amongst  the  Alur  tribe,  where  there  has  been  a  real 

65 


66 

awakening.  She  writes :  "  Last  Thursday,  forty-one 
expressed  their  desire  to  receive  Jesus  as  their  Saviour. 
There  is  a  definite  work  of  the  Spirit  in  our  midst.  The 
interest  in  the  school  is  great  and  many  come.  Two 
hundred  or  more  are  often  present  at  the  morning  session. 
.  .  Yesterday  was  a  day  of  prayer,  and  we  had  such 
a  good  time.  Foya,  the  chief,  called  the  people  to  help 

him  in  his  garden  and  after 
they  had  finished  digging, 
instead  of  the  usual  beer 
drinking,  they  came  to  the 
prayer  meeting.  Mr.  Lan- 
ning  gave  them  tea  and 
bananas,  which  they  seemed 
to  enjoy  immensely.  How 
we  praise  God  for  the  change 
wrought  in  such  a  little 
while.  Last  evening  we  had 
singing  and  a  talk  and  prayer 
with  some  of  our  boys.  It 
was  good  to  hear  them  speak 
and  pray.  Wacoko  prayed 
and  said  how  he  thanked 
God  for  sending  the  white 
people  to  tell  them  the  words 
of  God  ;  if  they  had  never 
come  they  would  still  be  doing  the  works  of  Satan. 

"  When  Foya  had  his  garden  dug  once  before  and 
called  all  his  people  together,  we  went  down  and  had  a 
service.  When  the  garden  was  finished  we  all  returned 
to  the  village,  and  found  the  women  busy  preparing  beer 
to  drink.  Foya  was  anxious  for  us  to  leave.  He  and 
the  old  men  came  with  us  on  the  path  some  of  the  way. 
I  said, '  I  know  you  want  us  to  go,  so  that  you  can  drink.' 


MISS    EDITH    HARLAND. 


67 

He  said, '  Oh,  Wingo,  you  have  much  wisdom.'  Now  what 
a  change  has  been  wrought  !  "* 

Miss  STIRTON  is  a  certificated  nurse  ;  she  sailed  from 
England  for  Africa  in  December,  1912.  Her  sphere 
of  service  is  also  at  Kacengu,  among  the  Alur  tribe.  She 
helps  in  the  work  amongst  the  boys  and  the  women. 

(1)  Of  that  amongst  the  former  we  have  the  following 
account  :  "  At  present, 

1916,  we  have  nearly 
thirty  boys.  We  take 
them  on  for  a  period 
of  three  months  and  in 
this  time  they  are  able 
to  learn  something  of 
God's  words,  and  some 
accept  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  as  their  Saviour 
before  they  leave. 
Every  morning  they 
attend  school  and  the 
other  native  meetings 
and  then  do  work  on 
the  station." 

(2)  About      the 
women  :    Miss  Stirton 
tells   us    some    of   her 

difficulties  in  this  part  of  the  work.  "  Not  long  ago  a 
woman  was  taken  very  ill  in  a  village  near.  We  heard 
that  her  husband  had  taken  one  of  our  most  interested 
women,  and  tied  her  in  the  hut  close  to  the  woman  that 
was  ill,  saying  that  she  was  the  cause  of  the  trouble.  We 
went  and  demanded  that  she  should  be  allowed  to  come 


M1S3    SARAH   STIRTON. 


* "  Wingo "  is  the    name    the    natives    have     given     to     Miss 
Harland. 


68 

away  with  us.  They  wanted  to  kill  her,  and  the  only  way 
we  could  rescue  her  was  by  having  her  in  our  house 
until  her  husband  was  able  to  take  her  quietly  away  to 
her  parents'  home  a  long  distance  off.  She  is  not  allowed 
to  return  to  her  village.  I  miss  her  in  my  work  among 
the  women,  but  I  am  glad  to  have  been  able  to  save  her 
life.  A  few  weeks  later  we  heard  of  a  similar  case.  A 
man  was  ill  and  the  people  took  the  mother  of  one  of 
our  school  boys.  We  tried  every  means,  by  pleading  and 
threatening,  to  save  the  woman,  but  were  unable  to  do  so. 
The  following  morning  we  heard  that  she  had  been  killed. 
The  village  in  which  this  happened  was  on  a  hill  over- 
looking the  valley  which  we  had  to  cross.  When  the 
people  saw  us  coming,  they  guessed  our  errand  and  hid 
the  poor  woman  and  possibly  killed  her  then." 

We  are  apt  to  regard  such  events  as  these  as  being 
merely  incidents  (lamentable  or  detestable  according  to 
our  own  point  of  view)  of  a  degraded  and  uncivilised  life, 
which  arouse  in  our  mind  a  passing  and  regretful  feeling 
of  pity  for  the  particular  victim.  In  reality  such  degra- 
dation and  uncivilisation  are  but  indications  of  the  power 
of  Satan,  always  the  enemy  of  God  and  man  ;  evidences 
of  the  unveiled  hatred  of  the  Adversary  against  God's 
creatures  ;  the  shackles  of  fear  and  sin  which  bind  man- 
kind hand  and  foot.  Truly  "  the  dark  places  of  the 
earth  are  full  of  the  habitations  of  cruelty,"  but  the  dark- 
ness is  due  to  the  god  of  this  age,  who  has  blinded  the 
eyes  of  mankind  and  it  is  only  the  "  light  of  the  knowledge 
of  the  Glory  of  God  ir  the  face  of  Jesus  Christ  "  which 
can  dissipate  this  darkness.  "  Civilisation  "  apart  from 
Jesus  Christ  can  only  substitute  a  more  subtle  form  of 
servitude  for  the  superstition  of  heathendom  ;  only  the 
power  of  Christ's  gospel  can  "  set  the  captive  free  " 
and  bring  him  into  "  the  glorious  liberty  of  the  sons  of 


69 

God."  The  black  man  of  this  part  of  Central  Africa  has 
never  had  a  personal  offer  of  this  glorious  light  and 
liberty  ;  he  is  stretching  out  his  hands,  asking  he  knows 
not  for  what.  The  Lord  Christ,  too,  is  standing,  waiting, 
asking — for  messengers  and  light-bearers.  "  Whom  shall 
I  send  and  who  will  go  for  us  ?  "  Shall  He  ask  in  vain  ? 
MRS.  FRED  MORRIS  (nee  M.  Hurst),  and  her  sister, 
Miss  G.  HURST,  were  converted  at  a  mission  held  at 
Ranelagh  Hall,  Bayswater,  conducted  by  Messrs.  G.  and 


REV.    G.    FRED    B.    MORRIS,    B.A.,    AND    MRS.    MORRIS. 

M.  Goodman,  and  received  their  call  to  the  Mission  Field 
through  an  address  given  by  Dr.  A.  T.  Pierson  at  Dr. 
Stuart  Holden's  Mission  Hall.  Mrs.  Morris  sailed  with 
Miss  Stirton  in  December,  1912.  She  first  worked  at 
Kacengu,  but  after  her  marriage  to  the  Rev.  Fred  Morris 
she  removed  to  Dungu. 

REV.  G.  F.  B.  MORRIS,  B.A.,  was  formerly  curate  to 
Dr.  J.  Stuart  Holden.  He  was  Hon.  Home  Secretary  for 
the  A.I.M.  from  1911  to  1912  :  but  God  "  laid  the  neces- 


7o 

sity  of  hastening  with  the  Gospel  into  the  interior  of 
Africa  "  heavily  on  his  heart  through  an  address  by 
Rev.  C.  E.  Hurlburt  at  Keswick.  He  sailed  for  the  field 
in  January,  1913,  and  led  the  pioneer  party  to  the  wild 
Azandi  tribe  in  the  N.E.  Belgian  Congo.  He  is  now  the 
Field  director  for  that  district  with  his  headquarters  at 
Dungu . 

Although  this  station  (Dungu)  was  only  opened  in  1913, 
the  work  is  developing  rapidly.  Mr.  Morris  writes  in 
March,  1917  : — "  We  have  a  number  of  new  boys  and 
girls  and  shall  have  a  bigger  school  than  ever.  May  we 
put  first  things  first  and  teach  God's  word  in  dependence 
on  His  power  alone  !  We  have  a  translation  of  St.  Mark's 
Gospel  and  part  of  St.  Luke's.  We  have  over  150  scholars 
daily  this  term,  including  six  chiefs'  sons.  The  first  hour 
is  devoted  to  the  Scripture  lesson  ;  pray  much  for  this, 
the  most  important  part  of  our  school  work." 

As  Field  Director  for  the  N.E.  Belgian  Congo,  Mr. 
Morris  travelled  with  the  Rev.  C.  E.  Hurlburt  in  1916, 
looking  out  for  sites  for  probable  mission  stations  amongst 
the  untouched  tribes,  and  thus  describes  the  journey  : 
"  We  are  going  from  Dungu  to  Moto*  ;  the  latter  is  a 
gold  mining  centre,  and  the  places  around  are  camps, 
with  an  official  in  charge.  We  saw  the  gold -wash, 
which  was  very  interesting.  There  are  crowds  of  natives 
here  being  ruined  by  civilisation.  The  tribes  are  all  mixed  up 
— the  Logo,  Mangbetu,  Lubgwara  and  Ndo — but  speaking 
different  languages.  Their  need  is  great  .  .  .  We 
want  someone  with  exceptional  language  ability  to  lead 
the  work.  We  have  a  warm  invitation  from  chief  and 
native.  How  soon  will  it  be  accepted  ?  Perhaps 
sooner  than  we  expect,  but  by — Romanists  !  I  trust  not. 

"  I  saw  the  biggest  dance  I  have  yet  seen  in  Africa— 
*  East-south-east  of  Dungu. 


about  500  or  600  Lubgwara,  savage,  naked  and  painted, 
dancing  in  a  mass,  holding  up  hands  outstretched  towards 
the  sky,  like  a  mute  appeal  to  God.  Why  can't  we  get  the 
Gospel  to  them  quickly  ?  " 

Praise  God,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Ellson  are  now  working 
amongst  this  tribe  (see  pages  40  and  77). 

MR.  J.  BA.TSTONI-,  B.A. 
was  a  fellow  undergraduate 
with  Mr.  Morris  at  Cam- 
bridge, and  sailed  with  him 
in  January,  1913.  Previous 
to  this  date  he  was  a 
worker  at  the  Cambridge 
Medical  Mission,  Bermond- 
sey,  founded  by  the  Rev. 
H.  D  Salmon.  He  received 
his  call  to  Africa  through 
messages  delivered  by  Rev. 
C.  E.  Hurlburt  at  Keswick 
and  Cambridge.  He  is  also 
at  Dungu  engaged  in  the 

medical  work.  "  Things  are  very  promising  here,"  is 
the  encouraging  word  we  have  from  him,  "  and  boys 
come  in  to  me  every  evening  for  a  talk  and  prayer. 
Beri,(one  of  the  first  Azandi  converts)  also  comes  in  about 
5.30  a.m.  for  a  short  prayer  meeting  before  the  day's 
work." 

In  one  of  his  1916  letters  Mr.  Batstone  gives  us  a  little 
insight  into  the  seriousness  and  genuineness  of  the  work 
as  carried  on  at  Dungu — a  sample  no  doubt  of  what 
obtains  elsewhere  also.  Firstly  he  alludes  to  the  "  lack 
of  conviction  of  sin  "  and  asks  our  prayers  not  for  the 
natives  only  but  that  learners  and  teachers  alike  may  be 
enabled  to  realise  the  "  exceeding  sinfulness"  of  sin.  If 


J.   BATSTONE,    B.A 


72 

we  know  our  own  hearts  can  we  not  go  out  in  prayerful 
sympathy  with  our  brother  ?  Secondly  we  are  reminded 
that  ''it's  so  awfully  hard  to  explain  spiritual  matters 
in  a  language  of  which  so  far  we  know  so  little."  Thirdly 
he  gives  a  most  interesting  evidence  of  the  care  taken  in 


MISS    GWENNIE    HURST. 

the  admission  of  candidates  to  the  church.  He  says, 
"  we  have  not  had  anytbaptisms  yet,  but  we  give  a  paper 
to  those  who  satisfy  us  that  they  have  a  reasonable 
knowledge  of  the  gospel  and  who  come  to  us  desiring  to 
make  a  profession." 

Other  fascinating  details  of  life  on  the  Dungu  station 
are  given  by  Mr.  Batstone — of  medical  work,  and  brick- 


73 

making  and  fishing  in  the  river.  All  these  things  go  to 
make  up  the  busy  life  of  a  missionary  in  Africa.  Some 
idea  of  their  activity  can  be  obtained  by  reading  the 
letters  to  the  members  of  the  Prayer  Union. 

Miss  G.  HURST,  after  having  been  trained  two  years 
at  Miss  Camp's  Missionary  Training  Home,  sailed  in 
November,  1914,  and  joined  her  sister  at  Dungu. 

She  writes  :  "  We 
want  much  prayer 
for  the  women  at 
Dungu. 

The  work  is  going 
well  and  we  have 
much  to  praise  God 
for  and  take  fresh 
courage.  Miss  In- 
goldby  and  I  are  in 
charge  of  the  nine 
little  girls  who  have 
been  sent  us  in 
answer  to  prayer. 
.  .  .  Four  have 

expressed  a  real  desire  to  follow  Jesus,  and  I  believe 
they  are  sincere.  It  is  difficult  to  get  little  girls  away  from 
their  villages.  The  fathers  do  not  like  their  going  out  of 
their  sight,  not  for  love  of  the  children  so  much  as  for  love 
of  the  money  they  get  for  selling  them  to  be  wives  to  the 
first  man  that  comes  along  and  will  give  a  good  price.  It 
is  this  child-marriage  that  causes  so  much  of  the  im- 
morality. One  of  our  little  girls  was  married  a  little 
while  ago  to  an  old  man,  we  did  feel  so  sad  about  it,  but 
could  do  nothing,  as  it  was  her  father's  wish  and  the 
money  had  already  been  paid  to  him.  The  money 
generally  consists  in  spears,  knives,  etc." 


\ 


MISS   M.   JOAN    INGOLDBY  (see  p.   74.) 


74 

Miss  M.  J.  INGOLDBY  was  associated  with  St.  Paul's 
Church,  Portman  Square,  and  received  her  training  at  the 
Glasgow  Bible  Training  Institute,  at  the  Rev.  Dr. 
Holden's  Training  Home  for  Missionaries,  and  at  the 
Missionary  School  of  Medicine.  She  heard  God's  call  to 
Africa  through  an  address  given  at  St.  Paul's  Mission  Hall 
by  Rev.  C.  E.  Hurlburt,  and  realised  for  the  first  time  that 

she  was  saved  to  serve  ! 
She  "  arose  "  to  obey 
the  call,  and  sailed  in 
1915  to  join  the  workers 
at  Dungu. 

MR.  FLINN  and  MR. 
GUILDING,  while  working 
a  caravan  together  under 
the  Children's  Special 
Service  Mission,  had 
Africa  and  its  needs 
brought  vividly  home  to 
them — so  much  so  that 
they  were  under  the 
constraint  of  the  Spirit 
to  offer  to  the  A.I.M. 
They  were  accepted 
and  sent  out  in  October, 


R.  B.  FLINN. 


Mr.  Flinn  is  now  holding  the  fort  alone  at  Bafuka, 
among  the  Azandi.  When  this  station  was  opened,  Mr. 
Morris  wrote  ;  "  The  work  will  be  hard  because  the 
Roman  Catholics  have  been  there  and  they  will  embitter 
the  natives  against  us  terribly.  .  .  Satan  has  opposed 
every  step  forward  and  will  surely  oppose  this.  It  is 
another  step  towards  Lake  Chad  "  (see  page  37).  Bafuka 
is  situated  near  the  northern  borders  of  the  Belgian  Congo. 


75 

On  one  of  his  exploration  tours  in  the  untouched 
regions,  Mr.  Flinn  travelled  500  miles  all  on  foot.  He 
sends  us  the  following  description  of  this  journey  : 
"  Some  of  the  way  led  through  long  grass  15  ft.  to  16  ft. 
high,  thick  with  dew  in  the  early  morning.  Over  the 
numerous  streams  the  style  of  bridge  varied  from  a  single 
log  thrown  across,  to  a  "  monkey-bridge,"  i.e.,  a  big 
tree  felled  on  each  side  of  the  stream,  so  that  in  falling  the 
topmost  branches  touched  in  mid  stream.  We  had  to 
climb  along  the  trunk  and  then  to  negotiate  the  branches, 
then  to  the  further  trunk,  and  thus  to  get  across.  The 
art  of  balancing  is  quite  easy  after  a  little  practice,  and 
Blondin  was  not  such  a  wonderful  man  after  all  !  I 
got  soaked  several  times  a  day  !  The  last  day's  journey 
revealed  great  signs  of  destruction  by  the  elephants, 
making  travelling  difficult,  because  of  trees  being  knocked 
down  across  the  path  and  the  deep  footholes  all  along  the 
track  ;  so  I  was  quite  pleased  to  meet  a  band  of  thirty  to 
forty  men  all  armed  with  muskets,  on  elephants  intent." 

At  a  Belgian  customs'  fort,  called  Bangaru,  which  he 
reached  on  October  isth,  1916,  he  found  a  hospital  for 
sleeping  sickness — the  patients  were  too  drowsy  to  under- 
stand his  message.  Continuing  on  his  way,  he  came 
across  a  gang  of  natives  clearing  the  track,  in  charge  of  a 
black  sergeant,  who  gathered  them  all  together — one 
hundred  and  sixty  in  number — to  hear  the  "  Old,  old 
Story."  He  continues :  "  I  could  not  let  this  fine 
opportunity  slip.  The  road  is  cut  through  the  territories 
of  the  various  chiefs,  and  each  chief  must  send  all  his 
available  men,  thus  all  the  men  of  this  district  can  be 
easily  reached  .  .  .  Alas !  the  country  is  full  of 
opportunities,  but  where  are  the  labourers  ?  The 
official  and  the  rubber  merchant  are  here  and  are  busy  and 
contented  ;  why  no  missionary  ?  My  station  is  170  miles 


76 

south-east  of  here.  There  is  no  station  to  the  northward 
for  2,000  to  3,000  miles ;  yet  methinks  I  can  catch  the  echo 
of  that  wondrous  Voice  :  '  Go  ye  into  all  the  world  and 
preach  the  Gospel  to  every  creature  !  ' 


MR.   AND  (the  late)   MRS.    ELLSON    AND  THEIR   CHILDREN. 

As  a  result  of  Mr.  Flinn's  tours  four  sons  of  chiefs  have 
been  sent  to  Dungu  to  be  taught. 

Africa  seems  to  act  like  a  loadstone  to  those  who  have 
once  been  drawn  to  her  by  the  constraining  love  of  Christ. 
They  cannot  get  away  from  her  influence.  MR.  and  the 
late  MRS.  ELLSON  had  seen  previous  service  in  Africa  [in 


77 

Nyasaland,  but  at  the  time  of  their  being  brought  into 
touch  with  the  A.I.M.  Mr.  Ellson  was  in  business  in 
England.  They  gave  up  their  home  and  sold  their 
furniture  to  help  to  obtain  the  money  to  send  them  to 
the  field.  They  sailed  in  October,  1913,  and  for  some 
time  were  much  used  of  God  at  Kinyona,  among  the 


MISS    HENTON,    NOW    MRS      ELLSON. 

Agikuyu.  Here  Mrs.  Ellson  was  called  to  "  Higher 
Service."  Mr.  Ellson  is  now  doing  pioneer  work  among 
the  Lubgwara  and  is  stationed  at  Nyangarakata  (N.E. 
Belgian  Congo). 

The  news  from  him  is  very  encouraging  :  "  Since 
coming  here  early  in  1916  we  have  seen  quite  a  measure  of 
success,  for  a  distinctly  pioneer  effort.  The  chief  is 
very  friendly  and  so  are  the  headsmen  both  of  the  Logo 
and  the  Lubgwara.  The  Logo  is  the  ruling  tribe  and  the 
Lubgwara  are  their  slaves.  Their  language  is  quite  a 
'  poser  '  so  far.  What  you  think  you  have  learnt,  you 


78 

find  you  have  to  unlearn  later  on.  For  instance,  we  have 
for  over  a  week  been  trying  to  find  out  the  word  for 
'  help  '  and  cannot  get  it. 

"  The  Lubgwara  just  round  us  seem  to  be  the  very  lowest 
I  have  met  in  any  part  of  Africa  yet.  They  have  no 
clothes  at  all — male  or  female.  They  live  in  the  worst 
hovels  I  have  seen,  while  the  Logo  live  in  very  good  huts. 
Such  are  the  people  to  whom  we  have  come.  Please 
pray  that  this  exceedingly  difficult  language  may  soon 
be  conquered  enough  to  give  them  the  Gospel." 

Miss  HENTON  (now  MRS.  ELLSON)  was  a  worker  at 
Christchurch,  Westminster  Bridge  Road,  S.E.  She 
attended  one  of  the  Days  of  Prayer  held  by  the  A.I.M. 
The  great  need  of  Africa  pressed  heavily  upon  her  ;  this 
was  deepened  as  she  came  time  after  time  to  the  weekly 
prayer  meetings  at  78a,  East  Street,  until  it  led  to  her 
offering  herself  for  the  field.  She  felt  it  would  be  a 
shameful  thing  in  the  eyes  of  God  to  rest  comfortably  at 
home  !  Together  with  Miss  Martin  she  sailed  in  1915, 
and  they  commenced  the  work  amongst  the  Lubgwara 
tribe  at  Nyangarakata. 

Miss  MARTIN  also  received  her  call  through  the  weekly 
prayer  meetings  held  at  the  A.I.M.  Headquarters.  She 
was  a  co-worker  with  Miss  Henton  at  Christchurch, 
Westminster  Bridge  Road.  One  evening  after  leaving 
the  A.I.M.  prayer  meeting  where  God  had  been  defi- 
nitely speaking  to  her,  she  went  on  to  one  of  the  great 
conference  meetings  of  the  Salvation  Army.  The 
atmosphere  there  seemed  full  of  the  call  to  her  ;  the  texts 
on  the  walls  and  the  messages  spoken  all  seemed  to  point 
the  same  way.  At  the  close,  "  I  will  follow  all  the  way  " 
was  sung,  and  while  singing  this  hymn  her  will  was 
surrendered.  She  sailed  in  March,  1915,  and  is  now  at 
Nyangarakata  with  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Ellson,  a  pioneer 


79 

missionary  to  the  Lubgwara.  Nyangarakata  is  twenty- 
eight  miles  from  Am,  where  the  nearest  Government 
Station,  the  nearest  white  people  and  the  nearest  Greek 
store  are  to  be  found.  It  is  about  one  hundred  miles 
north-west  of  Lake  Albert. 


MISS    GERTRUDE    P.    MARTIN. 


She  thus  describes  the  people  :  "  The  home  of  the 
Lubgwara  tribe  lies  in  the  North  Belgian  Congo.  As  far 
as  we  know,  no  missionary  has  ever  touched  the  tribe,  no 
white  man  has  ever  tried  to  learn  the  language,  and  no 
other  than  native  foot  has  ever  trod  the  winding  paths 
to  their  poor  little  villages.  The  A.I.M.  has  sent  us, 


8o 

its  first  representatives,  to  work  amongst  this  people. 
Those  workers  who  have  visited  our  station  have  spoken 
most  emphatically  of  this  being  the  saddest  and  most 
depraved  of  the  African  tribes.  .  .  .  These  poor  folk 
do  not  seem  to  understand  any  treatment  but  blows. 


THE    LATE    J.    F.    CLARKE. 


The  people  expect  no  kindness,  but  they  do  respond  to  it. 
.  .  .  Oh,  when  will  more  of  you  be  coming  to  help  to 
ingather  this  waiting  harvest — before  they  die — before 
Jesus  comes  ?" 

MR.  J.  F.  CLARKE  had  been  some  years  working  at 


8i 

Nyakach  among  the  Luo  tribe  in  British  East  Africa.  At 
that  time  the  station  was  worked  by  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Innis 
as  a  separate  Mission,  but  they  all  joined  the  A.I.M.  in 
1913.  After  visiting  the  Azandi  tribe,  Mr.  Clarke  had 
a  brief  furlough  in  England  and  then  opened  a  new  station 
among  the  Alur  in  the  Belgian  Congo  and  worked  it 
single-handed. 

Of  his  work  he  wrote  :  "I  have  just  returned  from  a 
short  trip  to  the  country  of  two  neighbouring  chiefs, 
Aldongo  and  Wuzeguru.  No  work  is  being  done  at 
present  among  the  people  of  either.  Aldongo  and  his 
people  listened  attentively  to  the  gospel  messages  and 
would  welcome  the  missionary.  .  .  Ngena,  the  brother  of 
of  the  chief  Rija,  has  now  at  the  order  of  the  Belgian 
Official,  come  to  live  at  the  foot  of  the  Hill  Ara  (the 
site  of  this  station),  and  is  bringing  all  his  people.  He 
has  again  sent  a  message  telling  me  of  his  wish  to  build  a 
school-house  immediately,  and  I  have  promised  to  teach 
his  people  daily.  .  .  .  My  great  difficulty  at  present 
is  the  lack  of  labour,  and  for  this  reason  the  work  is 
developing  slowly.  The  chief  Rija  has  always  been  most 
friendly,  and  owing  to  his  help  three  houses  have  been 
put  up,  also  a  cook-house.  I  am  feeling  the  loneliness 
intensely  but  am  conscious  that  God  is  strengthening 
me  in  answer  to  prayer." 

Mr.  Clarke,  we  deeply  regret  to  say,  was  "  called  Home  " 
on  April  27th,  1917. 

Miss  MARY  MOZLEY'S  desire  to  become  a  missionary 
was  first  awakened  by  reading  k'  Things  as  they  are,"  by 
Miss  Carmichael.  Her  heart  was  filled  with  pity  for  the 
heathen.  She  felt  that  was  not  sufficient,  so  she  prayed 
earnestly  that  God  would  give  her  a  burning  passion  for 
His  glory,  that  would  send  her,  in  His  will,  to  the  utter- 
most parts  of  the  earth.  This  prayer  has  been  answered 


82 


fully  ;  she  is  now  a  zealous  worker  at  Moldisa,  among 
the  Logo  tribe,  to  whom  she  is  one  of  the  pioneer 
missionaries.  She  was  trained  at  the  Faith  Mission  in 
Ireland  and  took  a  short  medical  course  at  the 
Missionary  School  of  Medicine,  having  previously 
qualified  as  a  nurse,  and  she  sailed  in  November,  1914. 

She  first  went 
with  her  sister  to 
Dungu  and  from 
there  they  spent 
some  months 
alone  in  an  Azandi 
village  some  miles 
from  that  station, 
living  in  a  tent. 
The  Chief,  Beka, 
was  opposed  to 
their  being  there, 
and  threatened  to 
kill  them.  They 
had  at  last  to 
leave,  but  not 
before  the  ''good 
seed "  had  been 

sown  in  the  hearts  of  some  of  his  wives,  who  seemed 
very  responsive  to  the  word.  This  was  in  1915.  Now 
the  news  has  come  that  Mr.  Flinn,  in  one  of  his 
initerating  tours,  visited  Beka's  village  at  the 
beginning  of  this  year  (1917),  and  found  his  opposition 
removed.  He  now  wants  the  missionary,  and  has  offered 
to  build  a  church  and  send  his  children  to  school !  "  Cast 
thy  bread  upon  the  waters  and  thou  shalt  find  it  after 
many  days."  May  some  one  soon  be  sent  to  "  occupy  " 
here  "  till  He  come." 


MISS    MARY    MOZLEY. 


83 

The  Misses  Mozley  have  been  spending  the  last  year 
(1916)  at  Feradje,  in  a  rest  house,  kindly  placed  at  their 
disposal  by  the  Belgian  Government,  learning  the  Logo 
language.  With  no  books  to  help,  this  has  been  no 
easy  task.  The  only  way  is  to  get  the  words  one  by  one 
from  the  natives.  Miss  Mozley  says  :  "  We  feel  God  has 


MISS    CATHERINE    MOZLEY,   NOW   MRS     MILLER. 

helped  us  so  much  in  getting  what  little  of  the  language 
we  have.  We  have  a  simple  catechism  and  a  few  hymns 
out  now.  It  was  good  news  to  hear  the  other  day  of 
Berangi,  our  Logo  '  Epasnetus  '*  —  the  first-fruit  of 

*  Romans  xvi.    5. 


84 

that  tribe  unto  Christ.     He  is  the  boy  who   has   taught 
us  what  Logo  we  know." 

Miss  CATHERINE  MOZLEY   (now  Mrs.  D.  M.  Miller) 
sailed   with   her   sister   in   November,    1914 ;     she   was 
definitely  led  to  consecrate  her  life  to  God  for  service  in 
Africa  through  a  vision  given  in  the  night.     It  is  best 
described  in  her  own  words  :    "  While  Mr.  Hurlburt  was 
staying  with  us  the  Lord  drew  near  in  the  night  and  gave 
me  a  vision  of  the  heathen.     He  showed  me  them  in 
their  darkness  groping  after  light  and  not  able  to  find  it. 
Then  the  cry  of  need  in  their  utter  despair  rang  in  my 
ears  :   '  I  had  no  place  to  flee  unto  ;  refuge  failed  me  ;  no 
man  cared  for  my  soul.'     Never  shall  I  forget  how  those 
words  rang  out  in  the  stillness  of  the  night — '  No  man 
cared  for  my  soul.'     I  was  humbled  as  I  confessed  I  had 
not  cared.     The  cry  was  only  too  true.     Then  He  again 
opened  my  eyes  and  I  saw  Christ  on  the  Cross  with  his 
hands  outstretched  with  such  yearning  love  over  those 
dying  millions.     '  I  thirst/ He  said.     Then  turning  to  me 
with  His  hands  outstretched  towards  them,  He  added, 
'  Give  ye  them  to  drink.'     He  said  again,  '  God  so  loved 
.     .     .     that    He    gave,'     '  Christ    loved     .     .     .     and 
gave  Himself,'  and  turning  to  me,  '  Love  as  I  have  loved 
you.'     The  next  morning  I  offered  to  Mr.  Hurlburt  for 
the  A.I.M.  and  now  I  feel  that  through  all  eternity  I 
shall  never  be  able  to  praise  Him  enough  that  He  enabled 
me  to  be  '  obedient  to  the  heavenly  vision.'  ' 

MR.  D.  M.  MILLER  was  an  evangelist  in  the  Faith 
Mission  and  had  been  engaged  in  Christian  work  for  five 
years  in  Rothesay,  and  for  a  short  time  in  the  North  of 
Ireland,  before  sailing  for  Africa.  At  the  time  of  his 
acceptance  by  our  council,  he  wrote  : — "  My  heart 
is  set  on  Africa  and  I  look  forward  with  joy  to  going  forth 
in  the  name  of  the  Lord."  He  sailed  in  May  1913  and  was 


85 

one  of  the  pioneer  party  to  the  Azandi  tribe.  In  March 
1916  he  went  to  Moldisa  to  open  up  work  amongst  the 
Logo  people.  He  has  been  engaged  during  the  last  year 
(1916)  in  building  the 
Mission  station  there. 
A  missionary  writes  of 
him  at  this  time  : — "  It 
is  wonderful  how  he  has 
been  helped  in  planning 
and  building  on  the 
station  !  The  amount 
he,  the  solitary  individ- 
ual, has  accomplished 
is  amazing  !  One  cannot 
but  realize  that  indeed 
God  has  been  with  him. 
One  could  not  wish  for 
a  better  house  than 
these  mud  ones.  They 
are  beautifully  built 
and  are  nothing  like  so 
expensive  as  the  brick 
ones.  They  have  brick  D.  M.  MILLER. 

floors." 

Miss  CATHERINE  MOZLEY  and  MR.  D.  M.  MILLER  were 
united  in  marriage  in  April  1917  and  are  now  living  at 
Moldisa  with  Miss  MOZLEY,  Miss  EVANS,  and  MR.  FALLOWS. 
The  station  work  amongst  this  wild  tribe  has  been 
begun  in  good  earnest  and  we  hope  soon  to  hear  of  rich 
fruit  for  his  glory. 

MR.  J.  FALLOWS  was  led  to  consecrate  his  life  to  God 
for  the  Foreign  Mission  Field  through  a  mission  held  in 
Londonderry  by  MESSRS.  CHAPMAN  and  ALEXANDER. 
He  received  his  call  to  the  Congo  at  an  A.  I.  M.  meeting 


MR.   J.   FALLOWS. 


held  in  the  same  town.  This 
was  deepened  through  reading  the 
Monthly  Prayer  Letters  and  led  to 
his  application.  He  was  much 
used  of  God  in  Ireland  in  connection 
with  the  Faith  Mission.  He  sailed 
in  October,  1916,  and  is  at  present 
at  Moldisa  with  the  other  Faith 
Mission  workers. 

Miss  M.  EVANS  of  Port  Talbot, 
S.  Wales,  went  out  in  October  1916. 
She  received  her  training  at  the 

Missionary  Training  Home,  Ancoats,  Manchester.      God 

laid   on    her    heart    the  heathen  in  Africa  as  a  heavy 

burden.      She  sent  in  her   application   "  because,"    she 

said,    "  the  love  of  God  in   my 

heart  constrains  me   to   offer." 

She    was    associated    with    the 

Faith   Mission    and  is   now    at 

Moldisa. 

B.— BRITISH  EAST  AFRICA. 
The  following  are  working 
in  British  East  Africa;  Miss 
E.  NORTON  was  sent  to  the 
Field  by  one  who  first  offered 
herself  to  the  Mission,  but  who 
through  medical  reasons  was 
not  accepted.  God  burdened 

her  with  the  desire  to  support  another  missionary  instead. 
Miss  Norton  was  a  worker  in  the  '"London  Bible- Women 
Nurses  Mission."  She  sailed  in  November  1907  and  has 
been  much  used  of  God  among  the  women  and  girls  in 
Ukamba,  at  Mboni.  "  We  now,"  she  writes,  "  have  fifteen 


MISS   M.    EVANS. 


87 

girls  in  the  home.     About  three  weeks  ago  two  of  these, 

and  another  who  has  since  been  married,  and  two  boys, 

confessed    Christ    publicly     in      baptism.     .     .     .     At 

5.  p.m.  on  the  same  day  we 

gathered  in  the  Chapel  for 

the  Lord's  Supper  and  the 

newly-baptised  ones  joined 

us.     I  always  feel  that  the 

Lord  is  so    near   on    these 

occasions." 

When  the  girls'  work 
was  first  started  at  Mboni 
a  crowd  of  angry  women 
came  round  the  station 
shouting,  "  You  shall  not 
have  our  girls  !  ''  But, 
praise  God,  Jesus  has 
triumphed. 

MR.  and  MRS.  ALEXANDER 
sailed  for  Africa  in  October 
1913.  They  have  been 
working  at  Kijabe  ever 
since,  Mr.  Alexander  being 
engaged  in  industrial  work. 

They  were  members  of  the  Faith  Mission  at  Dundee 
for  some  years  before  they  were  called  to  the 
A.  I.  M.  through  a  visit  to  Dundee  by  the  Rev.  C. 
E.  Hurlburt.  He  writes  of  his  work  at  Kijabe : — "  In 
the  industrial  school  we  give  training  in  sawmill 
work,  carpentry,  blacksmithy,  stone-work  and  ox- 
driving.  Young  men  and  boys  who  attend  the 
native  day  school  have  to  be  provided  with  work  in 
the  industrial  school. 

"  Through  the  work  carried  on  in   this  department 


MISS    E.    NORTON. 


many  have  been  won  for  the  Lord  and  are  now  evangelists 
and  teachers  in  the  native  school. 

"  We  have  young  men  and  boys  from  five  or  six  different 
tribes.  We  try  to  keep  them  three  years  ;  some  stay 
on  after  and  become  leaders  and  strong  Christians." 


MR.    AND    MRS.    A.    D.    ALEXANDER,    BABY,    AND    HIS    MOTHER. 

MR.  ALBERT  CLARKE  had  seen  previous  service  among 
the  Akamba  tribe  when  he  joined  the  A.  I.  M.  on  the 
field  in  1913.  He  came  from  Hull  and  was  trained  at 
the  Bible  Training  Institute,  Glasgow.  He  is  working 
at  Mukaa  where  there  seems  to  be  a  real  spiritual 
awakening. 


"  The  work  here  is  growing 
last  week  I  felt  that  God  had 
called  the  Christians  together 
until  on  the  fourth  night 
the  people  were  praying 
and  testifying  as  never 
before.  At  the  Sunday 
morning  service  six  people 
stood  to  accept  Christ. 
In  the  afternoon  we  went 
to  the  more  distant 
villages  and  reached 
about  350  people.  We 
had  a  time  of  blessing 
throughout  the  whole 
series  of  meetings,  char- 


much,"  he  says.  "  Only 
a  blessing  for  us  and  so  I 
each  night  for  eight  days 


W.   3.    GUILDING. 


ALBERT  CLARKE. 

acterised  by  a  better 
fellowship,  with  liberty 
in  prayer  given  to  these 
who  had  never  prayed  in 
public  before,  and  by  a 
desire  which  has  gripped 
us  to  evangelise  the 
outlying  districts. 
Altogether  the  work  is 
at  a  very  encouraging 
stage.  Since  July  ist, 
1916,  eight  people  have 
joined  the  catechumen's 
class,  and  at  our  week- 
night  meeting  for  prayar. 
we  have  an  attendance 
of  from  40  to  50.  This 
month  sixteen  [native 


9° 

Christians  are  on  the  volunteers'  list  to  preach  in  the 
more  distant  centres  each  Sunday.  This  is  a  matter 
for  much  prayer  and  praise  to  God.  Many  of  them  are 
young  believers  for  whom  we  wish  an  infilling  of  the  Holy 
Spirit." 

MR.  W.  GUILDING  is  stationed  at  Nyakach  among 
the  Luo.  His  previous  work  in  association  with  Mr. 
Flinn  and  his  call  to  the  field  are  narrated  on  page  74. 

From  him  we  hear  of  the  Spirit's  working  in  that 
district.  "  New  boys  and  girls  are  coming  to  the  Mission 
and  desiring  the  Word  of  God.  The  other  day  101  boys 
and  girls  were  present.  Boys  often  come  and  ask  for 
teachers  to  come  to  their  villages  to  instruct  them. 

••  Last  Sunday  I  visited  a  village  where  they  had  just 
built  a  school-house  ;  on  the  Saturday  night  they  put 
the  roof  on.  On  Sunday  morning  the  hut  was  full  of 
people  who  had  come  to  hear  the  Word  of  God,  and  some 
were  standing  outside.  .  .  .  The  Roman  Catholics 
are  about  the  district  doing  their  work  of  deception,  and 
we  need  to  pray  that  the  Devil's  power  through  them  may 
be  defeated.  The  needs  of  this  section  are  great,  the  most 
urgent  need  being  more  helpers." 

*  *  *  * 

The  foregoing  extracts  quoted  from  letters  of  our 
missionaries  show  that  there  are  openings  for  very  varied 
talents  and  gifts.  While  the  main  and  essential  qualifi- 
cation is  whole  hearted  devotion  to  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
and  His  Gospel,  this  may  be  coupled  with  educational 
advantages,  facility  in  learning  languages  for  conversa- 
tional and  translation  purposes,  medical  or  nursing 
skill,  agricultural  knowledge,  experience  in  builders'  or 
carpenters'  work  etc.  Most  of  these  and  other  gifts 
and  callings  can  be  utilised  in  one  or  other  part  of  the 
Field. 


91 

We  praise  God  for  the  workers  gone  forth  in  obedience 
to  their  call  from  God  and  for  the  manifest  signs  of  the 
Holy  Spirit  working  amongst  them.  They  are,  however, 
wholly  inadequate  to  cover  the  vast  regions  inhabited  by 
the  untouched  millions  of  Africa.  This  cry  comes  in 
nearly  all  their  letters  to  us  !  Let  us  ask  ourselves  the 
penetrating  question  "  Lord,  what  wilt  Thou  have  me  to 
do  ?"  If  we  ask  it  on  our  knees  alone  in  His  presence  in 
the  spirit  of  full  surrender,  without  doubt  He  will  show 
that  we  as  consecrated  Christians  should  have  our  share 
in  hastening  the  spread  of  His  Kingdom  in  this  dark 
Continent  or  in  some  other  section  of  His  great  harvest- 
field. 

The  Roman  Catholics  and  the  Mohammedans  are 
passing  in  before  us — to  our  shame  !  One  of  our  mission- 
aries on  his  way  out  to  the  field  visited  the  Mohammedan 
University  in  Cairo.  At  that  time  there  were  10,000  young 
students  there,  and  he  was  told  that  sometimes  there  were 
as  many  as  13,000.  He  asked  what  was  to  become  of 
them  all.  The  reply  was  : — "  They  are  to  spread  the 
Mohammedan  religion  all  over  Africa.  We  are  de- 
termined to  take  Africa  for  Mahomet."  Surely  here  is 
a  zeal  which  shames  us  !  Shall  we  not  stand  shoulder 
to  shoulder  in  these  dark  testing  days  and  be  determined 
to  take  Africa  for  Jesus  Christ  ?  This  will  only  be  as  we 
let  Him  have  His  way  with  us  fully  ! 

"  Jesus,  see  me  at  Thy  feet, 
With  my  sacrifice  complete  ; 
I  am  bringing  all  to  Thee, 
Thine  alone  I'll  be. 

Have  Thy  way,  Lord,  have  Thy  way  ; 
This  with  all  my  heart  I  say  ; 
I'll  obey  Thee,  come  what  may  ; 
Dear  Lord,  have  Thy  way." 


MAP. 
ERRATA. 

The  names  REJAF  (in  the  N.W.  corner  of  Uganda) 
and  BANGARU  (on  the  borders  of  the  British  and  French 
Sudan  and  of  the  Belgian  Congo)  should  not  be 
underlined. 


o 

oq 


Ch 


03 
-Q 


73 


CC 

Q 


Se 
O 


QZ 

UJ 

i 


SSION 


ND 


o     c; 

•^         05 


03 

•d 


73     73 


O 


o, 

6 

03 

CO 


R  -S 

C 

o 

73 
C 
0 

ti 
.0 

s 

«N 

Ho 

rviee, 

03 

CO       ^ 

-4 

; 

03 

co 

0 

OJ       ~3 

<;    o 

03 

'      5 

73      3 

Ss        O 
O       Ck 

CC 

oT 

s 

o 

Ho 

t  Street, 

Ho 

03 
03 

is 

Ho 
V> 

is 

.  03 
CO 

Q, 

CC 

is 

CC 

i 

03 

6j 

;§ 
0 

Q 

73 

q 

03 

s 

.q 

CO 

CO 

>--< 

-4 
^    |" 

£5 

co 
CO 

03 

•^ 
CO 

QQ 

1 

HO 

73 
C3 

CO 
Oi 

.d 
£ 

s^ 
a 
o 

X 

ft: 

CO 

•^  s 

3 

CO 
CO 

& 

CO- 
CD 

-4 

^3 

"s 

03 

K 

"£» 

a" 

^ 

C3 

Ql 

*" 

o 

- 

03 

0} 

\iJ 

f>^* 

Ho 

ts 

"^ 

^S 

^  v3 

.0, 

03 

^C 

^i 

CO 

Cj 

Q 

^^ 

Ss. 

CO 

i 

• 

CO 

s 

s 

C3 
03 

SH 

d 

03 

<n 

N 

CC 

o, 

03 

Q 

*^4 

3 
O 

^ 

Cj 

o 

-Q 

CC 

UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA  LIBRARY 

Los  Aneeles 


University  of  California 

SOUTHERN  REGIONAL  LIBRARY  FACILITY 

405  Hilgard  Avenue,  Los  Angeles,  CA  90024-1388 

Return  this  material  to  the  library 

from  which  it  was  borrowed. 


NON-RENEWABLE 

APR  23 

DUE  2  mm  DATE  RECEIVED 
&$Wk 

HAY  28  T9* 


Form  L9-Ser 


University 
Soutfcerr 
Library 


Headley  Brothers, 
18,  Devonshire  St. 
Bishopsgate.  E.G. 2. 
and  Ashford,  Kent. 


