Tsing Ch it 


Never t? We) 


S 
= 


Xx 
& 
=. 
€ 


Zhe 
YA 
1 


A CRY FROM AFRICA 


“Why didn’t you tell us sooner?” 
The words came sad and low ; 
**O ye who knew the gospel truths, 
Why didn’t you let us know ? 
The Saviour died for all the world, 
He died to save from woe ; 
But we never heard the story, 
Why .didn't you let us know ? 


You have had the gospel message, 
You have known a Saviour’s love ; 
Your dear ones passed from Christian hom>s, 
To the blessed land above. 
Why did you let our fathers die, 
And into the silence go ? 
With no thought of Christ to comfort, 
Why didn’t you let us know ? 


We appeal te you, O Christians, 
In lands beyond the sea ! 
Why didn’t you tell us sooner, 
Christ died for you and me. 
Nineteen hundred years have passed 
Since disciples were told to go 
To the uttermost parts of the earth and teach ; 
Why: didn’t yeu let us know ? 


You say you are Christ’s disciples .; 
That you try His work to do ; 
And yet His very last command 
Is disobeyed by you. 
“Tis indeed a wonderful story ! 
He loved the whole world so, 
That He came and died to save us, 
But_you didn’t let us know ! 


Hear this*pathetic cry of.ours, 
O dwellers in- Christian lands’! 
¥or Africa stands before you, 
With pleading outstretched hands ; 
You may not be able to come yourself, 
But some in your stead can go. 
‘Will you not send us teachers ? 
Will you not.let-us know ?”’ 


Pete Yorn 


A DIVINE COMMAND 


Pray ye therefore the Lord of the Harvest 
that He will send forth labourers into His 
harvest.—Luke 16: 2. 


AN APOSTOLIC APPEAL 


Now I b2seech you, brethren, by our Lord 
Jesus Christ, and by the love of the Spirit, 
that ye strive together with me in your 
prayers to God for me.—Romans 15: 30. 


A MISSIONARY’S CRY 


“Unprayed for I feel like a diver at the 
bottom of a river with no air to breathe, 
or like a fireman on a blazing building 
with an empty hose.’’—Gilmour. 


If after reading the following story you 
feel moved to pray for the Sudan, write 
the Secretary that he may enrol yeu 
among our Prayer-Helpers and send you, 
without charge, the Monthly l.etter of 


the Mission. 


Che Burden of 
the Sudan 


ee 


Che Story of the Sudan 
Suterior Mission 


had what he called a ‘“‘Burden”’ for the 

nations. He speaks of ‘‘The Burden of 
Babylon,” ‘‘ The Burden of Moab,” ‘‘The Burden 
of Damascus,” etc. And if the great prophet 
Isaiah found his message springing forth from a 
“burden,’’? what wonder, in this Christian age, 
that the Missionary movements and the Mis- 
sionary message spring forth from hearts bur- 
dened with the woes of the nations, and burning 
with a Saviour’s love ? 


The Burden of the Sudan! Thus would we 
commence the story of the Sudan Interior 
Mission. 


In the year 1892, the great Sudan—in extent 
larger than the whole of India—with its teeming 
population of upwards of sixty millions of souls 
in pagan and Moslem darkness, lay untouched— 
uninfluenced by the Church of Christ. Not one 
missionary lived within its borders, and the 
Gospel story was unknown throughout its vast 
extent. 


Could anyone, appreciating the infinite value 
of a soul, look out upon this great field and con- 


ot great evangelist of the Old Testament 


sider unmoved the well nigh hopeless destiny of 
its dying millions ? While the Church was just 
concluding the first century of modern missions, 
was it possible that this vast unreached field 
should continue unoccupied ? 
The Origin Is it surprising that young men 
of the in America, who had taken the 
Mission missionary aim as the purpose 
of their life, and were weighing 
the claims of the different dark fields with the 
intention of going not merely to those in need, 
but to those who needed them most, should have 
had laid upon their hearts a ‘‘burden for the 
Sudan ?” 


Others had had that burden before them. 
Graham Wilmott Brooke, and his companion, 
Mr. Robinson, had already laid down their lives 
on the threshold of the Central Sudan as the 
culmination of three brave attempts to enter the 
field. A similar effort was in progress toward the 
Western Sudan, but the expedition was all but 
wiped out by death succeeding death. The 
Church as a whole was coming to regard it as one 
of the great ‘‘closed’’ fields. It was certainly 
unoccupied, but we still think not closed. 

It was early in 1893 that Mr. Walter Gowans, 
a young Scotch-Canadian, after in vain endeavor- 
ing to secure the co-operation of any Board in 
America, felt the burden of the Sudan so strong 
that he was impelled to cross the Atlantic to see 
if it were not possible to enlist the aid of some 
Society in England to undertake a new effort for | 
that great dark land. .But there was no en- 
couragement from the Churches or the Boards, 
for added to the excuse of the failure of previous 
attempts, another effort had just been put forth 
by an independent Mission which had ended in 
the death of Mr. E. White, one of the party, and 
the return home of Mr. Thomas Holt, the sur- 
viving member. Moreover, most of the Boards 
could point to a treasury empty througk existing 
obligations. 


4 


In May, Mr. Gowans was joined 
British by another worker from Canada, 
Societies Mr. Rowland V. Bingham, an 
Discouraged Englishman by birth ; and later 
on Mr. Thomas Kent, of 
Buffalo, N.Y., increased the party to three. 
Having done their best to enlist the prayerful 
help of Churches and Boards in vain, they felt 
that if others had not been given their vision, 
their special “‘burden’’ made them responsible 
as individuals before God, to do what they could 
to give the Gospel to the Sudan. 


Mr. Gowans used to say that the Sudan was 
a closed field simply because the Church had 
never in any adequate sense put her hand to the 
door to open it. We expressed our conviction 
in a little Sudan battle song, which we recall 
to-day, not as having any poetic value, but as 
expressive of the faith with which the little band 
was actuated. One verse ran: 
“For many years have Christians gazed, and then stood 

still aghast, 


And said the dangers were too great, this field was closed 
fast, 


But Jesus’ power shall break the bars, and burst the 
gates of brass, 


The dark Sudan shall hear the name of Jesus.”’ 


With this conviction the little party set forth- 
expecting that God who was sending would also 
care for them. Judged by the world’s standards 
or by the unbelief so current in the Church, we 
knew the attempt would be regarded as fool 
hardy. But many were the answers to prayer in 
the providing of passages and equipment and 
necessary supplies that confirmed the faith of 
these young men. We know that, after all, 
resources were slender, and provisions did not 
leave a wide margin beyond needs, and that 
funds were inadequate to large missionary 
operations. But we still believe that it is better 
to have a handful of meal and a cruse of oil and 


5 


God, than to meet famine with our barns filled 
with plenty but without Divine resources. 


Landing at Lagos, because of 

Landing in the refusal of the Royal Niger 
Africa Co. to permit them to proceed 

up the River Niger, they pre- 

pared for that long overland journey up to the 
Sudan. Missionaries at the coast discouraged 
the project as an impossible undertaking. The 
Superintendent of Wesleyan Missions in Lagos 
said to us one evening, in all seriousness, 
‘“‘ Young men, you’ll never see the Sudan ; 
your children will never see the Sudan ; 
your grandchildren may.’’ What a difference 
between the best forecasts of even good men 
and the prophetic utterance by the Spirit of 
God. We were to see the Sudan that year, 
although we had hoped to reach it for years of 
service rather than to have planted therein two 
living seeds in two lonely graves. It was neces- 
sary that one remain at the coast to keep up 
communication and receive and forward supplies. 
Messrs. Gowans and Kent went forward to the 
interior. Reaching the city of Bida, it was 
evident that more supplies would be needed in 
order to proceed to the city of Kano, which was 
their objective, and so Mr. Kent returned. to the 
coast, while Mr. Gowans still pressed forward. | 
The country was in a turmoil owing to the 
devastating slave-raiding wars being carried on 
by the powerful Moslem kings of Sokoto and 
Kontagora. On his journey, Mr. Gowans was 
surrounded in a small town, where, in their 
defence, the inhabitants were well-nigh starved. 
He shared with them in their suffering, and when 
the place was finally captured, the king of 
* Kontagora took the remainder of his trade goods 
on which he was dependent for future supplies, 
promising to repay them in cowry shells, the 
common currency of the country. Instead of 
this, he sent Mr. Gowans some of the captured 


6 


slaves, which were indignantly refused. No 
other return was made. Wasted with dysentery 
and with scarcely any goods left, he reached 
Zaria. 


Arriving at the coast, Mr. Kent found a good 
supply of provisions and trade goods awaiting 
him, and with these he once more started for the 
far interior, while Mr. Bingham followed to the 
nearest point at which it was possible to keep up 
communication and get out supplies for the 
party. However, such was the unsettled state 
of the country, that it was well nigh impossible 
to get a message or native messenger through, 
and when at last word reached him from the 
interior it was the heart-rending news that Mr. 

Kent had passed away at Bida, 
The Death while Mr. Gowans, after being 
of the overtaken by a party of English 

Pioneers’ travellers at Zaria, had been 

sent to the coast, but had died 
shortly after leaving them, at the little town of 
Ghirku, right up in the heart of the Sudan, 
where he was buried by their faithful Kroo boy. 


After some five months’ further labour, the 
solitary survivor retttrned home to voice anew 
to the home Churches the needs of that land 
without a missionary. 


Thus had the first effort—failed ? Nay. 
We think not. General Gordon died in Khar- 
toum because British help and British troops 
came too late. But Gordon did not fail. 
Gardiner starved to death in South America 
because the supplies from a sleepy Church came 
too late. Gardiner died, but he did not fail. 
He could not have been a man of faith, do you 
say ? Read his last journal, and dare repeat 
that statement. He starved, he died, but he 
died ‘“‘unto the Lord.” 


The great apostle to the Gentiles was a man 
of faith, but in his journal he recorded his 


7 


T. KENT. 


Died 8™ December 1894. 


The grave of Mr. Kent with Mr. Lang and | Chief 


experience of having been “in labor and travail, 
in hunger and thirst, in cold and nakedness.’’ 
Why ? I do not know, except to show that 
faith could triumph over these things. 


You ask if this attempt to reach 

The the Sudan with the Gospel was 

Conclusion of God, why He permitted His 

of the First two ambassadors to be smitten 

Attempt down while the weaker of the 

three was left behind ? I donot 

know. But I do know that these young men 

died in faith, and will yet have a glorious heritage 
from the Sudan. 


Mr. Kent had expressed his faith in the 
autograph album of the last missionary he had 
met on his way up, wherein he wrote, ‘“‘Our 
citizenship is in heaven, from whence also we 
look for a Saviour, the Lord Jesus Christ, who 
shall fashion anew the body of our humiliation 
and make it like unto His own glorious body.”’ 
And so that body now in the dust outside of 
Bida awaits that glorious resurrection as the 
first-fruits from the Sudan. 


The words spoken to Mr. Bingham by the 
mother of one of these young men on his return 
are such a good comment on these lives laid 
down that we venture to record them here. 
The words were uttered without thought of 
publicity, and were probably forgotten when 
spoken. Upon Mr. Bingham’s memory they 
‘made an indelible impression. This mother 
had given a daughter to China before her son 
was cajled to the Sudan ; and when her son was 
called she wished him God-speed on that difficult 
and dangerous mission. When she met the 
survivor of that little pioneer band, for a few 
moments there was. silence, and then she said, 
with her quiet voice, from a heart bowed with 
sorrow, “Well Mr. Bingham, I would rather 


have had Walter go out to the Sudan and die 


9 


there all alone, than have him home now dis- 
obeying his Lord.’’ Would that there were more 


mothers like this, then there were more mis- 
sionary sons. With others, she began to pray 
that God would raise up a witness where her son 
fell. It seemed impossible of realization then, 
but in less than ten years the Gospel was being 
preached in the very town in which Mr. Gowans 
had died. In a marvellous way God answered 
that prayer. 


After Mr. Bingham’s return home, broken 
in health, and not knowing what course to 
pursue, hesitating to start a new Society, he 
accepted a call to a Church in New York State, 
on the distinct understanding that the emphasis 
of his ministry would be placed upon the foreign 
mission work. 


But the call of the Sulan was 


A ever before him, and he could 
Ceaseless not rest content with the or- 
Call dinary influences of the home 


pastorate, although given much 
to encourage in his ministry. Securing leave 
of absence he once more began to advocate a 
work for Africa, and at last, in May, 1898, 
succeeded in organizing in Toronto an inter- 
denominational Society, now known as the 
Sudan Interior Mission. 


Another attempt was made to reach the 
Sudan in January of 1900, but Mr. Bingham . 
was stricken down with fever soon after landing, 
and carried from the Government Hospital on 
board ship for home. His two companions, dis- 
couraged with the loss of their leader, followed 
on the next boat. 


Never was the outlook more discouraging. 
Friends of the work felt that it was useless to 
continue longer in such a fruitless endeavour. 
But, quietly, steps were taken and plans were 
laid for another attempt. The sole income of 


10 


the Mission for the six months following this 
last effort was $62.50 (£12 10s. Od.), which was 
not a large su:n to support the Secretary and his 
family while pleading for workers for this forlorn 
hope. But, in spite of this discouragement, in 
less than twelve months another party was 
sent to Tripoli to study the Hausa language 
preparatory to a third attempt. 


During the seven years of 

Seven Years unsuccessful effort, God was 
of schooling His servants in that 
Failure ? peerless school of experience. 
Those were wonderful years of 

profit to the leaders of the work. Most neces- 
sary was-the discipline of trial and disappoint- 
ment. More necessary and less dangerous to us 
than progress and success. We might not have 
been able to stand the latter then, and so God 
made those seven years of seeming fruitless 
effort to be to us as the years in the backside of 
the desert to Moses. It took seven years of 
failure to 'earn something of the meaning of 


that simple word, ‘‘ Without me ye can do 
nothing.’’ It took seven years of failure to 
learn the counterpart, ‘*I can do all things 
through Christ which strengtheneth me.”’ 


When the years of fruitfulness come in our 
work—and we trust we have now entered upon 
that stage—it will bring no glory then to the 
instruments, for it will be known that in this 
work God has followed His well-nigh unvarying 
rule of choosing ‘‘the foolish things, the weak 
things, the base things, the things which are 
despised, yea, and the things which are not,” 
to accomplish His purposes in the Sudan. It is 
still open to demonstration that “‘the foolish- 
ness of God is wiser than men ; and the weak- 
ness of God is stronger than men.” 


11 


Then those seven years were 

Seven Years driving us to prove the power of 

of Answered prayer. We are so slow to 

Prayer pray. But so often has it been 

our only resource, that, we 

sorrowfully admit it, we were compelled to pray. 

Those great barriers to the establishment of 

miissionary work in the Sudan have fallen before 

weak but persistent prayer. We look back over 

the past and marvel at two things, the mighty 

working of our God, and our own unbelief in 

the face of His exceeding great and precious 
promises. 

While we prayed, God wrought, and in every 
sphere where it was necessary for Him to operate 
in order to open wide the door into the Sudan, 
His hand was seen. 

1. By the rescinding of the 
Seven Years Royal Niger Co.’s Charter in 
of Prayer 1899, the River Niger was 
and What’ thrown open to us, and by the 
Hath God conquest and annexation of 
Wrought ? Northern Nigeria, in 1900-2, 
the whole Central Sudan _ be- 
came British. The maladministration of Moslem 
Emirs gave place to the peaceable rule of the 
British Governor and his staff of Residents. 
The slave-raiding wars, which formerly -de- 
populated vast regions and kept the pagan 
tribes in, censtant terror, have ceased. 

2. Communication and transportation, once 
well-nigh impossible because of the inter-tribal 
strife, under British rule have made such advance 
as to demand from all a just tribute to the pro- 
gressiveness and enterprise of successive Gover- 
nors. The telegraph line is fast linking to- 
gether the territory of the twelve great pro- 
vinces of the Protectorate. It is now possible 
to communicate with several stations, reached 
22 years ago after months of difficult and dan- 
gerous travelling, by cable from the homeland in 
a single day. A penny stamp carries letters 


12 


from England or Canada to most of our mis- 
sionaries, and to cities yet unoccupied by the 
missionary. The railway is now open from 
Lagos to Kano—800 miles in the interior. The 
Niger has been bridged over 500 miles from its 
delta. A branch railway has been constructed 
to the Bauchi Highlands, primarily for the 
purpose of reaching the tin mines there, but 
incidentally to furnish us easy transport to our 
new Sanatorium. And now a third trunk line is 
under construction from the newly-discovered 
Port Harcourt to the heart of the country. 

3. The white man’s grave is not yet a health 
resort, but conditions have been so changed by 
recent discoveries that it has ceased to be a 
place to be dreaded. In 1900, the British 
expedition to the Niger lost 87 per cent. of its 
force by death and invaliding home. ‘This con- 
dition of affairs gave rise to the investigation 
which led to the discovery of the cause of the 
African fever and robbed it of its terrors. It 
has revolutionized health conditions in Equa- 
torial Africa. Our own death-rate in this 
Mission has for the last ten years averaged con- 
siderably less than 20 per thousand per annum.” 
The conquest of the ferocious cannibal mountain 
tribes and the opening up of the healthy High- 
lands was another great step in the transforma- 
tion of Northern Nigeria. 

Thus, after our seven years of prayer, we 
watched the-barriers fallone by one. Seven years 
of the discipline of trial and defeat, and we were 
ready to begin again. (How often did we plead our 
weakness and insufficiency as a reason why some 
other instrument should take our place, but He 
kept our hands to the plough.) Seven years of 
answered prayer and the field was wide open 
before us. 

In October, 1901, our third 

A Foothold expedition left for the Sudan. 
at Last The members of the party were 
Messrs. Anthony, Taylor, Ro- 


13 


binson and Banfield, soon followed by our first 
medical missionary, Dr. Stirrett. Under God’s 
blessing they were enabled to get a foothold in the 
country, and our first station was formed at 
Patigi, five hundred miles up the Niger. 


Then has followed nineteen years of foundation 
work. Houses had to be erected for the mis- 
sionaries. For a while they lived in native huts 
and grass houses, but with much labour our 
Mission House was finally completed at Patigi. 
The hearts of the natives had to be won, and 
their most difficult language mastered. There 
was little or no literature available, and progress 
was consequently slow. ‘The so-called teachers 
or interpreters knew but a mere smattering of 
English, and had no method of teaching their 
own native tongue. And yet, if the aim of the 
mission was to be accomplished, these tongues 
must be mastered. 


One of the principal assets of 

First-Fruits these years of foundation work 
has been the gathering of an 

increasing number of missionaries who are now 
able , in an intelligent way, to tell out the Gospel 
story in the language of the people. We now 
know that the “‘old, old Story”’ is being preached 
to thousands each year who had never before 
heard the Good News. ‘This in itself repays us 


for all the labour and sorrow of the early days. 


But more. The Word of God proclaimed is 
producing the same transformation in the lives 
of natives in the Sudan that has always in all 
ages marked it as the Living Word. Yes, ‘‘the 
tears of the sower, and the songs of the reaper”’ 
are beginning to mingle together in joy in the 
Sudan. We know it is only a few hundreds that 
yet compose the Church of Christ in Nigeria. 
But they are very precious to us—full reward for 
the tearful sowing. 


14 


sji9AuOT) SUuIznd vg 


And then some have joined the redeemed 
around the throne. What must have been the 
joy of those who laid down their lives in those 
pioneer efforts without seeing any results, when 
the first trophies of grace from that land joined 
them in the presence of the Master. 


¢ 


We rejoice, therefore, that we have not only 
the beginning of the Church militant in Nigeria, 
but that in the Church triumphant, some who 
are of the “‘kindred, tribe and tongue,” of the 
Sudan, are now joining in the wonderful chorus, 
“Unto Him that loved us and loosed us from our 
sins by His blood, to Him be the glory and 
dominion for ever and ever.” Could we only 
rightly appreciate the infinite worth of a soul, we 
should regard these saved ones around the 
throne as ample return for all the cost of missions 
to the Sudan. 


During these nineteen years we 
Giving the have had the joy of sharing in 
Bible toa the giving of the Gospel to a 
Nation Nation. In our pioneer party 
was a young Canadian, Rev. 
Alex. Banfield. Mr. Banfield became so pro- 
ficient in the Nupe language that at a Union 
Language Conference of the Missionaries six- 
teen years ago, he was requested to undertake 
the translation of the four Gospels into that 
language. He had the joy of completing 
that task, and with the assistance of the British 
and Foreign Bible Society, sent out to the field 
that priceless gift—the printed Gospels in the 
tongue of the native. It is impossible for us 
to express what a wonderful boon this is to the 
young converts who are being gathered out of 
heathenism, or to estimate the value it will be 
to all succeeding missionaries labouring among 
the people. 


16 


More recently, Mr. Banfield, in conjunction 
with a language committee, has completed the 
translation of the whole New Testament. He 
has also issued a translation of Old Testament 
Stories. 


Because of the growing need of Scriptures, 
hymn books, readers, etc., on the field, and the 
difficulty of sending home for printing in these 
strange languages, Mr. Banfield with the aid of 
the Church Missionary Society, secured a small 
printing press. So great was the need thus met 
that a larger press was soon necessary. 


From the commencement of this 

The Niger’ enterprise, which Mr. Banfield 

Press named ‘‘The Niger Press,’’ the 

effort has been a union one. 

The C.M.S. supplied the first little press, and the 

Sudan Interior Mission paid for the erection of 

the printing shop, while Mr. Banfield was sup- 
ported by his own Church. 


Portions of Scripture in thirteen dif- 
ferent languages for missionaries of various 
societies have been printed upon ‘‘ The 
Niger Press.”’ 


When the success of the work attracted the 
attention of the British and Foreign Bible 
Society, and they asked Mr. Banfield to under- 
take the superintendence of the whole of their 
work for West Africa, a crisis came in the history 
of the Niger Press. 

In accepting the new appointment Mr. Ban- 
field asked the Sudan Interior Mission to under- 
take the carrying on of the printing. However, 
it was thought wise to place it under the direc- 
tion of ‘‘ The Evangelical Publishers” of Toronto, 
so that all missions and missionaries could be 
served on equal terms. 

In 1918 Mr. and Mrs. E. F. George were sent 
out by the Evangelical Publishers to carry on 


17 


the work of the Niger Press, and it is hoped that 
an ever-increasing volume of printed Gospels, 
Bibles, and other good literature will be sent 
forth from the new printing house, which has 
been erected at Minna, to bless the different 
tribes and nations of the Sudan. 


While thus detailing the development of the 
work among the people with whom our mis- 
sionaries first settled, we know of no higher joy, 
next to the saving of a soul, than that of having 
given the printed Word of God as a legacy to 
a nation. 


Any desiring to aid this work can send gifts 
to EVANGELICAL PUBLISHERS, 858 College Street, 
Toronto, Canada. 


We have not only had the ‘joy of influencing 
in some measure the people of one language, but 
step by step we have been able to go forward, and 
in response to the Macedonian call we have the 
beginnings of work among eight distinct peoples. 
We have already referred to the work among the 
Nupes. From our station at Patigi the Gcspel 
has been.sounded forth. The meetings here are 
well attended, and the workers are encouraged 
with manifest signs of the transforming power 
of the Spirit of God, although progress has been 
very slow on account of the attitude of the 
bigoted Moslem population. The majority of 
the Nupe tribe are now Mohammedans. <A new 
station was opened among these people at 
Kpada, and for some years Mr. and Mr. Merry- 
weather have labored there. Special prayer 
is asked for this tribe, that the antagonism 
of the Moslem may be broken down, and 
the stolid indifference of the pagan minority 
may be turned toa spirit of enquiry. A decided 
change of attitude is already apparent, quite a 
number now openly confessing Christ, and we 
believe that prayer and persistence in the end 
will triumph over bigotry and indifference. 


18 


From the inception of our 

The work we have aimed to reach 

Hausa the great Hausa nation—the 

Nation strongest race of the Sudan, 
if not the whole of Africa. 


The first objective of our pioneers was the 
great Hausa metropolis, Kano. The Mission 
has never abandoned this purpose, and as soon 
as permission can be obtained, hope to enter it. 
Preparatory steps have been taken in the training 
of a number of workers in the Hausa language, 

-and in faith our first Hausa station was opened 
at Wushishi by Dr. Stirrett and his companions. 

Wushishi is on one of the main caravan routes, 
and in the dry season there is a constant stream 
of these travelling traders up and down this great 
thoroughfare. Night after night our missionaries 
visit their caravan encampments, and these 
Hausa traders, most of them nominally Mos- 
lems, will drink in the words {rom our mis- 
sionaries, as in no hurried manner they tell out 
the old, old story. In these caravans one finds 
people from well nigh every province of Nigeria, 
and even from the desert tribes of the great 
Sahara representatives have listened to the 
Gospel from our missionaries at Wushishi. It is 
not an uncommon experience now, after the 
mixed crowd has listened to the Gospel, to see 
one rise and declare that he had heard the story 
before, away up in his own country, as some of 
his people were down last year, and on their 
return brought back the ‘“‘good news” he had 
just listened to. God may use this widely scat- 
tered seed in His own wonderful way. Changes 
in the centres of population may make it advis- 
able to seek another centre for the Hausa work, 
but the work itself must be carried on. 


Our station at Minna, at the railway junction, 
is probably a more effective position to reach the 


19 


Hausas than Wushishi, as well as the other 
tribes which congregate at this centre. Pray 
especially for our missionaries to the Moslems, 
as they need special faith in their difficult task. 


Our next station was opened 
A Great among the Yagba_ tribe—a 
Awakening branch of the strong Yoruba 
nation. When itinerating from 
Patigi, Mr. Lang first came into touch with this 
people. On entering one of their towns, he was 
‘surprised to find a man reading the Bible, and 
trying to teach others to read. It appéars that . 
this man ran away as a slave and fled to Lagos, 
where he learned to read and procured a Bible. 
Later on, when the British took over the terri- 
tory, he returned to his own people, and with his 
little knowledge was seeking to let his light shine. 
On Mr. Lang’s advent they appealed to him to 
come and labor in their midst. He could not do 
this, as the responsibility of the work in Patigi 
rested upon him, but they came to him again and 
-again to urge that a teacher be sent. Mr. Lang 
visited them several times, and quite a number of 
young people came out and definitely decided to 
accept and follow Christ, and have already 
shown their earnestness by suffering persecution 
for the Name. 


Twelve years ago (1908) we were able to 
appoint a special missionary to the Yagbas, and 
he was received with open arms, in fact, it 
became a most difficult question to decide upon 
the place of his abode, as it was impossible to 
select one place without causing the keenest 
disappointment in another. In one place they 
were actually building a little church with the 
hope that the missionary would settle in their 
town. Making his headquarters in the capital 
of the tribe at Egbe, Mr. Titcombe applied him- 
self to the language, and did his best to spread 
abroad a knowledge of Christ. In about a year 
and a half the first converts were baptized and 


20 


suvnsiyy vqsex jo dnoig vy 


the first church formed. During the past ten 
years and a half there seems to have been a 
marked movement of the Spirit of God upon 
this tribe, producing a great awakening, so that 
it is safe to say that hundreds are asking the 


way of life. At Egbe about a thousand people 
gather to the Sunday meeting. There is great 
demand for Bibles and Primers. In a number 
of places the people have already erected their 
churches in readiness for the native missionary 
for whom they are asking, and they undertake - 
to support the man whom we may send. If ever 
we prayed for laborers to be sent, we should 
pray for them for this tribe, where the awakened 
multitudes are literally begging for teachers. 


In October, 1909, Mr. Titcombe was joined 
by Mr. F. Rutherford, but he was not permitted 
to labour long, as in 1911 he was invalided home, 
and after some six months of sickness passed 


away in London, Ontario. His place was taken 
by Mr. Guy Playfair, a young Canadian. In 
1912, Mr. Playfair opened a new station at Oro, 
not far from Eghe, a site selected by Mr. Ruther- 
ford before his departure. Two new stations 
have recently been opened in this tribe, one at 
Isanlu and the other at Agunjin, and quite a 
number of other stations are ministered to by 
natives. During the past six years hundreds of 
Yagbas have been baptized, and the prospects 
of advance in this part of the work are so great 
that the faith of the whole mission has been 
kindled to expectancy in the other tribes which 
we occupy. We are aware that a tremendous 
task is before us in instructing these young 
converts, many of whom have only faintly 
grasped the great truths of the Christian faith. 
What has been accomplished in this tribe is 
surely possible in the other tribes already 
occupied by us. 


x 22 


The next extension was amongst 
Another _ the Gbaris, a nation occupying 
Nation a hilly country east of Wushishi. 
Reached ‘They are a pagan race, and 
their country was a regular 
hunting ground for the Moslem slave-raider. 
They sought to secure their homes in their 
rocky fastnesses, but the Mohammedan kings 
were a constant terror to them. With the 
advent of the British, the power of their oppres- 
sors was broken, and their slave-raiding ceased. 
The Gbaris look upon the white man as their 
deliverer, and have given a special welcome to the 
white missionary. The door is wide open to us. 


Our first station at Paiko is in an excellent 
position to reach this people. 


This town had been visited from time to 
time by Mr. Rice, Mr. Hein, and others, and 
early in 1909 Messrs. Hein, Sanderson, and 
Dudley erected temporary buildings, and a little 
later Mr. and Mrs. Rice took up their residence 
under regular appointment to this tribe. They 
have been working steadily on the language, and 
aggressively evangelizing. Just recently news 
has come of several converts in this place. From 


Paiko, the work has advanced in this tribe, and 
Mr. and Mrs. Boyd have taken up residence at 
Idda, and a third station has been opened at 
Gaegi, where Mr. and Mrs. Stanley now labor. 
Ere another year closes we hope to have the first 
portions of the Scripture in the Gbari tongue. 
Of the other stations, there are already very 
cheering indications of response to the Gospel 
message through the prayers of God’s people and 
the active work of our corps of missionaries. In 
this tribe we should soon see repeated the work 
of grace manifest among the Yagbas. 


23 


In 1910, our field-secretary, Dr. 

A Call for  Stirrett, in seeking a site for a 

Advance _ sanitarium in the highlands, to 

Among the which missionaries could go and 
Pagan Tribes recuperate each year, took a 
long journey into the regions 
beyond our furthest station, and during his two 
months’ absence visited no less than ten tribes to 
whom no missionary had yet been sent. On his 
return to his station he reported meeting people 
in inconceivable moral degradation, but who 
were willing to receive the missionary. The 
opportunity is unique, but the situation i& 
critical. The danger lies in the advent of the 
Moslem. In several tribes they have not yet 
entered, but in others they have commenced 
operations. 

In response to Dr. Stirrett’s earnest appeal, 
that same year two of our missionaries struck out 
six days’ journey to the east of Paiko, beginning 
work in the Jaba tribe at a place called Kwoi. 
The Jabas are a small tribe occupying a territory 
about thirty miles long by twenty wide, with an 
estimated population of fifteen to twenty thou- 
sand. ‘The arrival of the missionaries here was 
very opportune, as the chief was seriously con- 
sidering the Moslem.faith. To-day he attends 
the mission school, and his cousin has “openly 
confessed Christ. 


Our two young Scotch brethren, Messrs. 
Watson and Allan, expect this year (1920) to 
have a primer and some Scripture portions in the 
Jaba tongue ready for the press. 


Most hopeful signs of spiritual awakening 
are already seen in the tribe, and Dr. Stirrett 
writes that a goodly number are ready for 
baptism. While this country is higher and more 
healthy than that of our other stations, we are 
sorry to have here to record our first missionary 
loss by death in seven years, Mrs. Watson having 
passed away through ‘‘flu”’ toward the close of 


24 


uosves AuIvey SulING OSURIW 18 ST[ey 


1918. In her short term of service she had 
endeared herself to native and missionary alike. 


In 1912 our sanatorium site at Miango was 
selected by Messrs. Lang and Sanderson, and 
later Mr. Sanderson went up to begin operations. 


While the building is now com- 

Our Rest pleted, it is not yet furnished, 
Home but when finished it is our ex- 
pectation that the efficiency of 


the missionaries will be greatly increased by the 
annual visit to our Rest Home, and that their 
term of service will also be lengthened. One other 
great hope is that it may be suitable as a perma- 
nent residence for the children of our missionaries 
and thus save the heart-rending permanent 
separation between parents and children. We 
can always use special gifts for the equipping of 
the Sanitarium, the improving of its grounds, 
and also to aid our missionaries with the neces- 
sary railway fare. 


There is a great call for Mission work at our 
Sanatorium Station, as the adjoining towns of 
Miango and Kwoi have a population of seven- 
teen thousand, belonging to the Iregwe tribe 
entirely unevangelized. We have made a 
beginning in reducing the language to writing, 
and Mr. and Mrs. Appel, with Mr. and Mrs. 
Ogilvie and several helpers, are now undertaking 
work among the people here. Twelve miles 
from this starion, Mr. Hummel in 1916 opened a 
new station among the Rukuba people, a tribe 
absolutely untouched before, and at Zagun the 
work is already quite encouraging. He has been 
joined by Mr. Alfred Bannister. 


In the year 1914-15, just after the war broke 
out in Europe, Mr. Bingham after being absent 
from the field ever since his breakdown at the 
time that he led the second attempt to reach the 
Sudan, was permitted to re-visit the work. 


26 


When he first essayed to go into the Sudan there 
was not a single Christian among its fifty mil- 
lions of people. Now he was welcomed by 
hundreds of native Christians. Churches have 
been established, the Scriptures are being trans- 
lated into tongue after tongue. At present 
writing, the Mission has eighteen stations and 
over fifty white Missionaries. 


After visiting all the Mission Stations, Mr. 
Bingham spent three months in journeying into 
the unoccupied regions, where he met the repre- 
sentatives of at least ten tribes, varying in size 
from ten thousand to a hundred thousand, and 
all without a single witness for Christ. A 
beautiful country, but the people literally living 
in naked heathenism. 


In response to his appeals Messrs. Hall and 
Beacham, in 1917, undertook to open a new 
station in the Tangale country, two weeks’ 
journey beyond our furthest station at Miango. 
Accompanied by Mr. Sanderson these two 
young men took their long journey and already 


Enroute to Tangale 


have succeeded in mastering the language to the 
extent of being able to get the Gospels trans- 
lated into that hitherto unwritten tongue. The 
outlook is very promising. 


Our cry to the Lord of the Harvest is for 
men of God for each of these waiting tribes. 
There is no barrier in the way but our indifference 
and our prayerlessness at home, and the dis- 
obedience of those whom God would send forth. 


If we pray the Lord of the 

I Will Pray Harvest as we ought, He will 
most assuredly send forth the 

labourers that are needed into this needy field. 
If those upon whom the Spirit of God lays His 
hand for service respond to the 

I Will Go call “Whom shall I send and 
who will go for us?” with a 

willing ‘‘Here am I, Lord, send me,”’ we have no 
doubt but that with every one thus thrust forth 
by God there will be a corres- 

I Will Give ponding burden laid upon the 
hearts of God’s stewards in the 

homeland to meet the financial needs thus arising. 


Whether your responsibility is to pray, to 
give, or to go, should be prayerfully con- 
sidered before God and in full view of the 
tremendous needs of this great field. 


During all these years every 

Financial worker who has stepped out in 
Provision true faith has found abundant 
reason to praise God for His 

bountiful supply of their needs. Without person- 
al solicitation or financial wirepulling the money 
required for the work has been sent in. God has 
moved hearts to minister to us—many from their 
poverty, a few out of their riches. He some- 
times has tried our faith, and we have often and 
sorely tried His faithfulness. Our faith has 


28 


sometimes been wanting, but His faithfulness 
never. At times He seemed to us long in answer- 
ing, but He was never late. No good thing has 
He withheld from us, but ‘“‘goodness and 
mercy have followed us” all the days. As the 
number of workers to be cared for has increased, 
in like manner has He increased the supply. 
During one year our little force of missionaries 
was nearly doubled, and God sent in the double 
supply. Even during the war years it was 
decided to continue to go forward in faith and in 
consequence our missionary force was again 
doubled during the war, and double supplies 
were sent in. 


No worker has had a salary guaranteed from 
man, but all who have gone forth trusting in the 
Lord have found that He sustains all His workers. 
As William Carey used to say: “If we make 
God our chief care, God will make us His chief 
care.” Co-operating with the missionaries on 

the field, the affairs of the Mis- 

Home sion have bten administered 
Helpers under the Divine Head of the 
Church by an Executive Coun- 

cil, with headquarters in Toronto, but having 
general representatives in Canada and the 
United States, and an Advisory Council in 
Britain. By evil and good report, in discourage- 
ment and defeat, as well as in the hour of success, 
they have upheld the workers at the front of the 
battle. Some have been with us from the very 
beginning, and we believe that all have been as 
truly raised up of God as the missionaries on the 
field. Coming from different churches, repre- 
senting nearly every evangelical denomination, 
they have sought with single eye to advance the 
work in Nigeria. The spirit of love has bound all 
together, and unity has been the prevalent 
characteristic of all our deliberations. It has 
not been our desire to secure rich men or great 
men for this position, but we believe the Apostolic 


29 


njunction, ‘‘Look ye out from among you men 
of good report, full of the Spirit and of wisdom,”’ 
to be the safest rule to follow in the filling of any 
post for the carrying on of the work of the Master. 


Our sketch of the work would 

The Loss’ be incomplete without some 

of reference to those who have laid 
Workers —_ down their lives in the interests 

of the Sudan. Of our pioneer 

party of four, only one remains at his work. The 
leader, the Rev. A. Anthony, and Mr. Robinson, 
were forced to leave in broken health, and. Mr 
Albert Taylor laid down his life on the field. 
Since then we have been called to mourn the loss 
of five workers, in the death of Mr. Smedley, 
Mrs. Lang, Miss Clothier, Mr. F. Rutherford 
and Mrs. W. Watson. Just recently the first 
break in our ranks has occurred through un- 
toward circumstances. Miss Helen Millar, one 
of our most promising new workers losing her 
life through snake bite. But her end was peace, 
and she left behind an inspiring testimony. We 
do not realize how much our missionaries are 
surrounded by dangers of all kinds and how 
much they need prayer for divine protection 


Those who have gone before most surely share 
in the fruit for which they willingly gave their all. 


Mrs. Lang and Miss Clothier lived to rejoice 
over the first fruits being gathered from the 
women of the Sudan, and helped to lay the 
foundations of work amongst the women and 
children which will yet prove one of the most 
useful departments of activity. The work for 
women in Nigeria must be largely done by 
women. Herein isa call to our sisters in England 
and America. 


30 


And now what of the future ? 

The Closing Shall we rise to the opportunity 

Appeal and enter the open door which 
God has set before us ? 


The pagan tribes appeal to us! Our 
failure to respond will mean that we lose our 
reward, bloodguiltiness will be laid to our charge 
if through our neglect these souls are lost. 
Further, we are making the task a hundred-fold 
more difficult for those who later on take up the 
work, for the welcome of the pagan will be 
turned into the hatred and opposition of the 
‘Moslem, for it must be remembered that if the 
British conquest has broken the power of slave- 
raiding Mohammedan kings, it has furnished 
protection to the Moslem priests and they are 
now sending their emissaries in great numbers 
amongst these pagan peoples that they formerly 
sought to enslave, and are now seeking by peace- 
able means to win them over to the false faith 
of Islam. We commence work with a people 
biased in our favour, but while we are 
occupying one station the Mohammedans 
are entering a dozen towns. Oh! that the 
Church would awake to the opportunity, 
the responsibility, the critical danger ! 


The Moslem challenges us ! The memor- 
able utterance sent to British Christians from 
Cairo—‘‘ Islam defies your King ’’—should ' 
stir the Church to face the Moslem problem. 
Nowhere could Islam be met with more hope of 
ultimate triumph than in the Sudan. We can- 
not rest until every Moslem city of Nigeria has 
its Christian missionaries. God is working to 
furnish the open door among them. Kano, 
Ilorin, Sokoto must open their gates to us if the 
Church will join in believing prayer. We know 
that it is the purpose of God that the whole of 
the Sudan should have the Gospel. What part 


31 


you can take in the matter should be settled by 
yourself in quietness before God. 


You may be able to go. 
You may be able to pray. 
You may be called to help those who go. 


What share we as a Mission may be permitted 
to have in the accomplishment of that great task 
we cannot say, but we would ask the prayers of 
God’s children that we may as a Mission be 
kept so low at the Master’s feet, and so willing 
to share with Him the cup of suffering, that He 
may be able to entrust us with much more ser- 
vice and give us much more fruit in the evangeli- 
zation of the great Sudan. Our work will not be 
done until that glad day dawns when every: 
tribe of the Sudan shall know that Jesus died 
to save the lost. 


THEN SHALL OUR ‘‘ BURDEN FOR THE 
SUDAN ”’ CEASE. 


32 


Our Mission Stations 


CHAWI—Dama Kasuwa. JABA—Kwoi. 


GBARI—Paiko, Kuta. NUPE—Patigi, Kpada. 
Edda, Geagi. RUKUBA—Zagun. 

HAUSA—Wushishi, TANGALI—Kaltungo. 
Minna. YAGBA—Egbe, Isanlu. 

IREGWE—Miango. YORUBA—Oro, Aguujin. 


We need more men and women for our work 
among the above peoples, and our Field-Secretary 
appeals for workers for the following tribes yet un- 
reached: Kadie, Koro, Dass, Ningi, Dugurawa, 
Filani, Seiyawa, Fika, Bedde, Mada, Kamuku, Kam- 
beri, Tulawa. 


Field Director—Guy W. PLAYFAIR. 


Field Secretary—ANDREW P. STIRRETT, M.D. 


Our Missionaries 


Allan, Mr. and Mrs. T. Merryweather, Mr. & Mrs. F. 
Appel, Rev. & Mrs, W. J. Munns, Miss M. 

Beacham, Gordon. Nethercott, Miss Jessie. 
Bannister, A. E. Nethercott, Miss Joyce. 
Boyd, Mr. & Mrs. S. E. Ogilvie, Rev. & Mrs. H. L. 
Clark, Miss E. A. |B.A.] Parker, Miss W. 


Craig, Mr. & Mrs. W. S. Playfair, Mr. & Mrs. G. 

Davis |B.A.j Rev. & Mrs. Playford, Miss EK. M. 
N.W. D. Rice, Mr. & Mrs. E. F. 

Donaldson, Mr. & Mrs. L. C. Sandercock, H. 

Dudley, Mr. & Mrs. C. E. Sanderson, Rev. & Mrs. G. 


Fellows, Miss I. ’ Stanley, Mr. & Mrs. F. 
Hall (B.A,) Rev. & Mrs. J. Stirtett, Dr. A. P. 

Hay, Mr. & Mrs. J. Titcombe,. Rev. & Mrs. T. 
Hummel, Mr. & Mrs. C. F. Wallis, Miss H. 

Kirk, H. Watson, Miss M. 


Lang, Rev. & Mrs. EK. F. Watson, W. 


Mr. & Mrs. E.F. George, “Niger Press.” 
33 


oh 


10. 


Facts About the Hield 


.. The Sudan is as large as India, Germany, France and 


the British Isles combined, or as large as the whole of 
Europe minus Russia. 


. The population of the Sudan, formerly estimated at 


from sixty to ninety millions, has been reduced by 
slave-raiding wars to not more than fifty millions. 


The whole region has only about 150 missionaries, the 
greater number of whom have but recently gone to 
the field. 


. Northern Nigeria, our special field, is the centre of the 


vast Sudan, and is the most densely populated region 
of Africa, still having large cities without a missionary. 


It contains the most enterprising African race, the 
Hausas, who travel and trade throughout the whole 
of North Africa. 


It presents a wide open door for the gospel, missionary 
operations being facilitated by British control, ensuring 
stable government, with postal and telegraphic com- 
munication 


. The pagan tribes are urging us to send them mis- 


sionaries, and unless we respond to their appeal they 
will go over to Mohammedanism, whose teachers are 
flocking in since the British conquest. 


. Five out of the twelve great provinces of Northern 


Nigeria have not a single mission station or missionary 


For 1,500 miles the Niger flows through a region 
where Christ is not known. 


If we were to send out one new missionary every 
day, and give to each one a parish of ten thousand 
people, it would take over thirteen years before 
the Sudan would be occupied. 


34 


5. 


=] 


Je] 


Facts About the Mission 


. The Sudan Interior Mission is a union effort of Chris- 


tians of all denominations, organized to mect the 
spiritual crisis in the Sudan. 


. It is international in scope, having co-operative com- 


mittees in three different countries and having on its 
missionary staff representatives of five different nations 


The Mission is the outgrowth of the first pioneer 
expedition that reached the heart of the Sudan in 18938, 
led by Messrs. Gowans, Kent and Bingham. 


. Its doctrinal basis is evangelical and it accepts and 


sends forth consecrated workers from any church, 
sound in the fundamental truths of the Bible. 


It is supported by the voluntary offerings of God’s 
people, its missionaries and home staff having no 
guaranteed salary. 


. It has eighteen stations with a number of out-stations 


already established, and several other towns are about 
to be occupied. 


It is operating in nine different languages and trans- 
lating the Scriptures and other literature into these 
tongues. 


A number of the missionaries speak the native languages 
fluently, and already first-fruits have been gathered 
from several of the tribes. 


. The Mission places the greatest emphasis upon 


its evangelistic work, believing that all other 
means must be subservient to the one great 
purpose of giving the Gospel! to all. 


For further information address 


THE SECRETARY 


860 College Street - - - Toronto 


35 . 


What Jt Custs 


Our friends frequently ask us what it costs to support 
a Missionary, etc. The following gives approximate cost : 


£7 or $35 will support a Missionary for a month. 

£80 or $400.00 will support a Missionary for a year. 

£70 or $350.00 will supply outfit for a Missionary. 

£80 or $400.00 will pay passage of Missionary to the field. 


A good Mission Home and Station can be erected for from 
$200 to $1,009, or £40 to £200, according to the 
material used, the situation and size, ete., ete. 


News of the Work 


The General Director of the Mission is also the Editor of 


“THE EVANGELICAL CHRISTIAN AND 
MISSIONARY WITNESS,” 


in which frequent reports of the work in the Sudan appear. 


The paper is a general Christian and Missionary 
Magazine, published monthly, containing Sermons and 
Expositions by able contributors, striking conversion 
stories, Notes on the International S.S. Lesson, together 
with Missionary News from all parts of the world, and 
many other helpful features. 


Sent post paid to any address for one dollar and 
twenty five cents a year. 


36 


Sudan Suterior Mission 


Mission Home and Office 
860 COLLEGE STREET, TORONTO, CANADA 
ROWLAND V. BINGHAM, General Director 
E. H. DICKSON, Treasurer 
ERNEST JONES, Secretary 


Hon. Secretary for Great Britain 
ALEX. S. WATSON, 3 Hackins Hey, Liverpool 


COUNCIL OF THE MISSION 
Dr. E. St. G. Baldwin W. H. Howitt, M.D. 


J. R. Beckett He Tiee LU Seeeite Uveletn euler, 
S. H. Chapman Martin Love 

VGN eked eal Rey. H.; Mackenzie 
EK. H. Dickson W. H. Noble 

T. B. Escott ‘AA. G. Olive 

John G. Greey Rev. P= -wW... Philpott 
William Henderson Henry W. Stock 


E. Ralph Hooper, M.D.J. Laing Stocks 
Rev. John McNicol, B.D. 


BRITISH COUNCIL AND REFEREES 


Pastor. Dk Hindlay, J:-P.. “Glaszows 

James Merry, Esq., London. 

Rev. Robert Graham, Supt. Liverpool City 

; Mission. 

Hugh A. Kerr. Esq., Blundellsands. 

Alex. S. Watson, Liverpool. 

Rev. Norman Fraser, B.D., Mt. Pleasant Presb. 

Church, Liverpool. 
Principal McIntyre, EDS Bible Training Insti- 
tute, Glasgow. 
Rewer. se Macpherson, M.A., St. Paul's Presb. 
Church; Birkenhead. 
Rev. W. M. Robertson, Toxteth Tabernacle, 
Liverpool. 
Rev. W. Graham Scroggie, Charlotte St. Bap- 
tist Church, Edinburgh. 

Pastor James Heap, Brunel Hall, Liverpool. 

William Nairn, Esq:. Dundee. 
Joseph Smithard, Esq., Anfield, Liverpool. 
EHdwin ~ Redwood; — Esa. Wark Road Bast, 
Birkenhead. 


ill YOU help give the Gospel message 
to the rising generation in the Sudan? 


Sudan Interior Mission 


860 College Street 


TORONTO CANADA 


