DOCUMENT_ID: luther1530-sermon
TITLE (as printed): A Sermon on Keeping Children in School
DATE: 1530 (original German, composed at Coburg during the Diet of Augsburg; first edition printed 1 August 1530); this translation copyright 1931
LANGUAGE: en (translated from German by Charles M. Jacobs, from the text of Clemen IV, 144 ff.)
SOURCE URL/SHELFMARK: https://archive.org/download/in.ernet.dli.2015.75685/2015.75685.Works-Of-Martin-Luther-Volume-Iv_djvu.txt
EDITION: Works of Martin Luther, with Introductions and Notes, vol. IV (Philadelphia: A. J. Holman Company and The Castle Press, 1931), pp. 133-181 (translator's introduction pp. 133-134; dedicatory letter and sermon text follow). Public domain in the US (pre-1932 Philadelphia edition).
TRANSCRIPTION METHOD: copied (Internet Archive djvu OCR text, item in.ernet.dli.2015.75685); page markers [[p. N]] inserted by this session from the running heads visible in the OCR; no spelling/OCR corrections made.
TOTAL PAGES: 133-181
WORD COUNT: approx. 18,250 (this excerpt, source file raw/sermon_marked.txt; a short closing passage of the *preceding* document (the last two sentences of the 1524 Councilmen letter, ending "...our Saviour. Amen,") was found misplaced at the head of this file by a mechanical page-split error during this session's extraction and has been moved to the end of luther1524-councilmen.txt, where it belongs; this file now begins directly with the "A SERMON ON KEEPING CHILDREN IN SCHOOL" title)

A SERMON 
ON 

KEEPING CHILDREN IN SCHOOL 
1530 




INTRODUCTION 


In the Spring of 1529, Luther wrote a preface for a book, published 
by his friend, Justus Menius, under the title, Oeconomia 
Christiana/ The book dealt with the duties of married folk 
and the Christian training of children. Luther’s preface emphasized 
the duty of Christians to provide their children with an education, and 
concluded as follows: 

“Thus, even in temporal government, you can serve your lord or your city 
better by training children than by building him castles and cities and gathering 
the treasures of the whole world; for what good does all that do, if there are 
no learned, wise, godly people? I shall say nothing of the temporal benefit 
and eternal reward that accrue to you before God and the world, if you have 
thus raised your child better than was in your shameful, hoggish counsel and 
intention. I shall give an exhortation on this subject another time in a separate 
book, God willing I and write against the shameful, dangerous, damned parents, 
who are not parents but shameful hogs and poisonous beasts, who devour their 
own children.” 

Luther carried out this intention in the Summer of 153(). The diet 
was in session at Augsburg, and he spent the time at the castle of 
Coburg, where he had greater leisure than in Wittenberg. It was 
there that he wrote the Sermon. We do not know the date when 
the work was begun, but it was completed July 15th and the first 
edition came from the press August 1st, 1530- 

The work is described in the title as “a sermon,” and was intended 
to furnish preachers with arguments that could be used to persuade 
people to provide their sons with an education, but it grew into a 
book, of which he says, in the dedication, that he has had to restrain 
himself by force, to keep it from getting too big. In letter to 
Melanchthon, dated July 5th, he had referred to this and remarked, 
'T was never so verbose as I seem now to have become ; perhaps it is 
the garrulity of old age.”^ 

This Sermon should be read alongside the letter To the 
Councilmen of all the Cities of Germany.® The 
two works are complementary. The earlier argues for the estab- 
lishment and maintenance of schools; the later for the use of the 
schools thus established. The two together enable the reader to 
form a clear conception of Luther’s ideas on education. 

The text of the Sermon is found in Weimar Ed. XXX®, 


* The preface is printed in Erlangen Ed. LXIII, pp. 277 ff. 
^Enders VIII, 80. 

•Above, pp. 103 ff. 


[[p. 133]]




[[p. 134]]


517 ff.; Erlangen Ed‘, XX, 1 ff.; Erlangen Ed.*. XVII, 

378 ff., St. Louis Ed. There is an English translation in F. V. N. 
Painter, Luther on Education (1889). The following trans- 
lation is from the text of Clemen, IV, 144 ff. 

For literature, see the Introduction in Weimar Ed. and 
the introduction to the letter To the Councilmen, above, pp, 
101 f. 

CHARLES M. JACOBS, 

Mount Airy, 

Philadelphia. 



A SERMON 
ON 

KEEPING CHILDREN IN SCHOOL 

1530 


DEDICATORY LETTER 
To the 

Honorable and Wise 
Lazarus Spengler, 

S3Uidic of the City of Nuremberg, 
my especially dear sir and friend 

Grace and peace in Christ, our dear Lord and true 
Saviour. Amen. 

Honorable and wise dear sir and friend. 

I have composed a sermon to the preachers here and there, 
to the effect that they shall exhort their people to keep their 
children in school. The thing has grown under my hands 
and become almost a book, though I have had to restrain 
myself by force in order that it might not become altogether 
too big, so full and rich is this subject. I hope that it may do 
much good, and I have published it under your name^ with 
the sole thought that it may thereby secure greater respect, 
and be read, if it be worthy, by the burghers of your city, for 
I well perceive that your preachers will be diligent enough in 
this matter and (because they are people whom God has 
endowed with great gifts) that they understand the case and 
push it forward. Thus, praise God! they need neither my 
admonition nor my instruction. And yet it does no harm 
to have many people agreeing with one another and resisting 
the devil the more strongly. 

For it can scarcely be possible that, in so great a city, with 
such a large crowd of citizens, the devil will not try his arts 
and tempt some to despise the Word of God and the schools. 


^ i.e., dedicated it to Spengler. 

[[p. 135]]



[[p. 136]]


This is the case particularly because there are many things 
there (especially commercial business^) to turn the children 
from the schools to the service of Mammon, and without 
doubt the devil has these things in mind. If he could cause 
the Word and the schools to be despised in Nuremberg, his 
attack would have had no small measure of success, for he 
would have set an example that would have mighty im- 
portance throughout Germany, and he would, in truth, deal 
all the schools in other cities a hard blow. For Nuremberg 
truly shines throughout all Germany like a sun among moon 
and stars, and what is practiced there has a powerful in- 
fluence on other cities. 

But praise and thanks be to God, Who has long hindered 
the devil’s purposes, and put it into the heart of an honorable 
and wise Council to found and equip such a fine and glorious 
school, at great cost and expense.’* It elects and appoints to 
it the very finest people, so that (not to boast too much!) 
it used to be the case that no university, not even Paris, was 
so well provided with teachers. I say this on the testimony 
of those who were trained with me in universities, for I 
know their wisdom, and have learned it too, and, sad to say ! 
I still know it all too well. This is indeed a fine achievement,® 
and a virtue of such a famous city, and an honor to its well 
known Council. For in this they have given rich Christian 
thought to their subjects, and have contributed to their 
eternal salvation, as well as to their temporal profit and 
honor. Such a work God will assuredly strengthen with ever 
increasing blessing and grace, though the devil must strive 
against it for a while, since he cannot be happy when such a 
fine tabernacle is built to the Lord in this sun. He must 
assemble clouds and mist and dust, and try in every way 
to keep such glory from shining too far, or to turn it into 
darkness ; what else could he do ? 

Therefore I hope that the citizens will acknowledge the 
fidelity and the love of their lords by keeping their children 

^Luther saw peculiar snares of Satan in commercial pursuits. See his work 
On Trade and Usury, above, pp. 12 ff. 

*In 1526 the city of Nuremberg had founded a new gymnasium. 
Among its teachers were such distinguished scholars as Joachim Camcrarius and 
Eobanus Hess. 

•C ato r r homa. 



[[p. 137]]


in school and honestly helping to support this work, because 
they see that, without cost to themselves^ their children are 
so richly and diligently cared for and that everything is 
provided for them. This will be the case, especially if the 
preachers are really active; for if they are not active, the 
common man will be attacked and overcome by thoughts 
that come from Satan and give this up and turn to other 
affairs. Indeed he cannot think this matter through, as a 
preacher can, and see how important it is, or how great the 
chances are for profit or for loss; therefore we must have 
patience with them, if only they are not obdurate or wicked. 
I know Nuremberg well enough to know that it has, thank 
God ! many fine Christian citizens, who do gladly and from 
the heart that which they ought to do, if only they know or 
are told their duty. They have this reputation not only with 
me, but far and wide, and there is no reason to fear that 
they will fail in this. There may, indeed, be an idolater or 
servant of the idol (I mean of Mammon) who takes his son 
out of school and says, ‘T£ my son can do sums and read, he 
can do enough ; we now have German books, etc.*' Thus he 
sets other citizens who are pious, a bad example, which they 
follow without reckoning the harm it does, and with the best 
intentions, thinking it the right thing and the only thing to 
do. This mistake the preachers can easily provide against, 
for every community, and especially so great a city, must 
have more people in it than merchants, and other people who 
can do more than keep accounts and read German books. 
German books are made especially for the common man to 
read at home. But for preaching and governing and sitting 
in judgment, all the knowledge and all the languages in the 
world are too little, to say nothing of Germany only. This 
is particularly true in these days of ours, when one has to 
talk with other peoples more than with Neighbor Hans. 
These idolaters think nothing about governing, and do not 
realize that without the preachers and the rulers they could 
not serve their idol a single hour. 

Of course, I believe that among so many people there may 
be an idolater, or a few of them, who would not care whether 
honor or shame came to the noble city of Nuremberg, so 



[[p. 138]]

long as they got their pfennig. On the other hand, 
people ought not to care about these mischievous idolaters, 
and should let them and their bad example go, and think, 
‘‘The greater the reputation that comes to our city when 
an honorable Council deals so faithfully and honestly with 
the schools, the greater were the shame if the citizens were 
to despise this fidelity and kindness, and become partakers of 
the bad example and offence given to other cities which then 
could say, ‘Yes, that is what they do at Nuremberg; there are 
people there too ; why should we do any better ?’ 

You idolater, if you will not consider what God and honor 
require, and will think of nothing but your idol,"^ God will 
yet find people who will consider it. Thank God! I have 
known several cities where the Council cared nothing for 
the Word or the schools, but where there were many pious 
citizens, who by daily persistence compelled the Council to 
found schools and churches. Therefore, if God will, the 
shameful report will not go out from Nuremberg, on your 
account, that the citizens followed your example and despised 
the schools which an honorable Council founds and maintains 
with so great fidelity, at such great cost, when in much 
smaller cities the citizens have got their schools, even though 
their Councils thought nothing of them. 

But where am I getting to with my talk, dear friend? I 
suppose it lies in the nature of these things that there has 
to be much talk about them. In this case the talking has 
been done under your name and that of all the burghers of 
your city. I beg that you will take it kindly, and help to 
further and to push this matter, as, indeed, you have done 
and are doing. God knows, I mean it well. 

May Christ our Lord strengthen and preserve you until 
that day when, if God will, we shall see each other with joy 
and in another shape. He who has given you so much to do 
for His work and His Word will also go on and complete it 
all. To Him be praise and thanks forever. Amen. 

Your obedient, 

MART. LUTHER. 


i.e., Money. 



TO ALL MY DEAR FRIENDS, 
PASTORS AND PREACHERS, 


WHO TRULY LOVE CHRIST, 

MARTIN LUTHER. 

Grace and peace in Christ Jesus, our Lord. 

My dear friends, you see with your own eyes how that 
wretch of a Satan is now attacking us in all sorts of ways, 
with force and guile, and is afflicting us with all kinds of 
plagues, in order to destroy the holy Gospel and the kingdom 
of God, or if he cannot destroy them, to hinder them at 
every turn and prevent them from making progress and 
gaining the upper hand. Among his wiles, one of the very 
greatest, if not the greatest of all, is this — ^he deludes and 
deceives the common people so that they are not willing to 
keep their children in school or bring them up as scholars. 
He puts the mischievous idea into their minds that because 
there is no hope for monkery, nunnery, or priestcraft, as 
they have existed heretofore, there is no more need for 
scholars or for much studying, but that we must consider 
how to make a living and get rich. 

This seems to me to be a real masterpiece of the devil’s 
art. He sees that in our time he cannot do what he would 
like to do; therefore he thinks to have his own way with 
our descendants, whom he is getting ready in our very sight, 
so that they may learn nothing and know nothing, and when 
we are dead, he will have before him a naked, bare, defence- 
less people, with whom he can do as he pleases. For if the 
Scriptures and learning disappear, what -will remain in Ger- 
many but a disorderly and wild crowd of Tartars or Turks, 

[[p. 139]]


Keepinr 
Children 
Out af 
Schoul % 
Wile of 
Satan 



[[p. 140]]


or perhaps, a pig-sty and a mob of wild beasts ? But he does 
not let them see this now. He blinds them in masterly fashion, 
so that, when it has gone to the point where he wants it and 
their own experience compels them to see it, he can laugh in 
his sleeve at all the complaining and the howling. However 
much they may wish, they will then be able to do nothing 
that will help, and will have to say that things have gone on 
too long. They will then be willing to give a hundred 
gulden for half a scholar, though now they will not 
give ten for two whole scholars. 

And it will serve them right. Because they are not now 
willing to support and keep pious, honorable, virtuous school- 
masters and teachers, offered them by God, to raise their 
children in the fear of God, and in virtue, knowledge, learn- 
ing, and honor, with great labor, diligence, and care, and at 
small cost and expense; therefore they will get in their places 
Locaten and Bacchanten,^ gross asses and louts, 
such as they have had before, who at great cost and ex- 
pense, will teach the children nothing else than how to be 
utter asses, and in return will dishonor their wives and 
daughters and maid-servants, and become lords over their 
houses and goods, as has happened heretofore. This will be 
the reward of the great and shameful ingratitude into which 
the devil is so craftily leading them. 

Pastaw Now because, as pastors, it is a part of the duty of our 
office to be on our guard against these and other wicked 
Guard wiles, we must not go to sleep on this matter, which is of 
Affainst importance ; but we must incite, exhort, torment, 

and nag, with all our power and diligence and care, so that 
the common people may not let themselves be so deceived and 
deluded by the devil. Therefore let each of us look to 
himself and remember his office, so that he does not go to 
sleep and allow the devil to become god and lord. For if we 
are silent about this and go to sleep on it, and the young 
people are neglected and our descendants become Tartars or 


^ Names applied in contempt to teachers whose education was defective and 
who could not hold the higher placea in the schools. 



[[p. 141]]

wild beasts, it will be the fault of our silence and our snoring, 
and we shall have a heavy account to render for it. 

To be sure, I know very well that many of you, without 
my exhortation, are doing this work better than I can advise 
you; also I have previously published a book to the Coun- 
cillors of the cities/ Nevertheless, because some may have 
forgotten this, or would be more persistent on account of 
my example, I have sent you this sermon of mine, which I 
have preached more than once to our people. From it you 
can observe that I am working faithfully with you in this 
matter, and that we are doing our best everywhere and are 
guiltless before God in the conduct of our ofl&ce. The case 
is truly in our hands, because we see that even those who are 
called clergy take the attitude of men who would let all the 
schools, and their discipline and teaching, go to destruction, 
or even help to overthrow them, because they cannot have 
their own way with them, as they once did. This, too, is the 
devil’s doing, through them. God help us. Amen. 


* Above pp. 103 



A SERMON ON 


KEEPING CHILDREN IN SCHOOL 

Dear friends : I see that the common people are indifferent 
to the maintenance of the schools, and are taking their chil- 
dren entirely away from learning, and are turning them only 
to the making of a living and to care for their bellies. Be- 
Proflt sides, they either will not or cannot think what a horrible 
^^^^®®and unchristian undertaking this is, and what great and mur- 
catwn derous harm they are doing throughout the world, in the 
service of the devil. Therefore I have undertaken to give 
you this exhortation, on the chance that there may still be 
some who believe a little that there is a God in heaven and a 
hell prepared for unbelievers, and that they may be converted 
by this exhortation ; though almost all the world is acting as 
though there were neither a God in heaven nor a devil in hell. 
Therefore, I shall count up the profit and loss in this thing. 
First we shall take up the spiritual, or eternal, profit and 
loss, and then the temporal, or worldly. 

I hope, indeed, that believers, and those who want to be 
The called Christians, know very well that the spiritual estate^ 
Spiritual has been established and instituted by God, not with gold or 
silver, but with the precious blood and the bitter death of 
His only Son, our Lord Jesus Christ. From His wounds 
flow the Sacraments’" (they used to depict this on the broad- 
sides®), and He earned it dearly that in the whole world 
tutedbjr men should have this office of preaching, baptizing, loosing, 
binding, giving the Sacrament, comforting, warning, exhort- 
ing with God^s Word, and whatever else belongs to the 
pastoral office. This office not only helps to further and 
maintain this temporal life and all the worldly classes, but it 


^]>er geistliche Stand, ^ i.e., the clergy, or the ministry. 
^The blood and water from the side of Christ. 

* One-page tracts, frequently illustrated with wood-cuts. 

[[p. 142]]



[[p. 143]]


also delivers from sin and death, which is its proper and 
chief work. Indeed, the world stands and abides only be- 
cause of the spiritual estate ; if it were not for this estate, it 
would long since have gone to destruction. 

I am not thinking, however, of the present spiritual estate 
in the monastic houses and the foundations, with its celibacy, 
for it has long since fallen from its first glorious foundation 
and is now nothing more than an estate founded by worldly 
wisdom for the getting of money and income. There is 
nothing spiritual about it except that the clergy are not 
married, and they do not need marriage, for they have some- 
thing else in its place; except for this, ever3d:hing about it 
is merely external, temporal, perishable pomp. They give no 
heed to the Word or the office of preaching ; and where the 
Word is not in use, the clergy must be bad. But the estate 
of which I am thinking is that which has the office of preach- 
ing and the service of Word and Sacraments, which gives 
the Spirit and all blessedness such as one cannot attain by 
any chanting or pomp. It includes the work of pastors, 
teachers, preachers, lectors, priests (whom men call chap- 
lains), sacristans, school-teachers, and whatever other work 
belongs to these offices and persons. This estate the Scrip- 
tures highly exalt and praise. St. Paul calls them God’s 
stewards and servants; bishops, doctors, prophets; God’s 
ambassadors to reconcile the world to God. Joel calls them 
“saviors,” David “kings and priests,” Haggai “angels”; and 
Malachi says, “The lips of the priest keep the law, for he is 
an angel of the Lord of Sabaoth.” Christ Himself gives 
them the same name, not only in Matthew xi, where He calls 
John the Baptist an angel,^ but also through the whole book 
of John's Revelation. 

For this reason the ancients greatly avoided this estate 
and dreaded to take the office upon them because of its great 
dignity and honor, and had to be forced and driven into it. 
To be sure, there have been many since then who have 
praised this estate highly, though more because of the saying 
of mass than because of preaching. This praise and glorifica- 

*Of course Luther is pla 3 ring upon the mcauing o£ angel, i.e., “messenger.'* 

Vol. IV.— 10 


Not the 
Monastic 
Clergy 


But the 
Ministry 
of the 
Word 


2 Cor. 
5:20 

Hag. 

1:13 


Matt. 

11:10 



[[p. 144]]


tion grew to the point where the office and estate of the 
priesthood (i. e. of the sacrificing of the mass) was placed 
above Mary and the angels, because the angels and Mary 
could not say mass, and a priest could. A new priest and 
his first mass were glorious, and blessed was the woman who 
had borne a priest; though the office of preaching is the 
highest and chief of all, and it was not regarded so highly. 
In a word, a priest was a man who could say mass, even 
though he did not know a word to preach and was an 
unlearned ass. That is in fact the spiritual estate even to 
the present day. 

Now if it is sure and true that God Himself has established 
and instituted the spiritual estate with His own blood and 
death, it is easy to conclude that He will have it highly 
honored and not suffer it to be destroyed or to cease, but 
will have it maintained until the Last Day. For the Gospel 
and the Church'" must abide until the Last Day, as Christ 
Matt says in the last chapter of Matthew. But by whom shall it 
28:20 be maintained? Oxen and horses and dogs and swine will 
not do it, neither will wood and stone. We men shall have 
to do it, for this office is not committed to oxen and horses, 
but to us men. But where shall we get men for it except 
from those who have children? If you will not raise your 
Giving child for this office, and the next man will not, and so on, 
^ ^ and no father or mother will give a child to God for this 
Ministry work, what will become of the spiritual office and estate? 
The old men, who are now in the office, will not live forever, 
but are dying off every day, and there are no others to take 
their place. What will God say to this at last ? Think you 
that He will be pleased because we so shamefully despise 
His office, divinely instituted for His praise and our salva- 
tion, and won so dearly, and because we so ungratefully let 
it drop and pass away? 

He has not given you children and the means to support 
them, only that you may do with them as you please, or 
train them for worldly glory. You have been earnestly com- 
manded to raise them for God’s service, or be completely 


^Christenheit. 




[[p. 145]]


rooted out, with your children and everything else; then 
everything that you have spent on them will be lost. The 
First Commandment says, “I visit the iniquities of the fathers 
upon the children unto the third and fourth generation of 
them that hate me."' But how will you raise them for God’s 
service if the office of preaching and the spiritual estate have 
gone down? And it is your fault; you could have done 
something for it and helped to maintain it, if you had 
allowed your child to study. If you can do it, and your child 
has the ability or the desire, and you do it not, but stand in 
the way, listen to this, — ^You are guilty of the harm that is 
done if the spiritual estate goes down, and neither God nor 
God’s Word remains in the world. In so far as you are able, 
you are letting it go down ; you will not give one child to it, 
and you would do the same thing about all your children, if 
you had a world full of them; thus, so far as you are con- 
cerned, the service of God simply goes to destruction. 

It does not help your case to say, ‘‘My neighbor keeps his 
son in school and so I need not” ; for your neighbor can say 
the same thing and so can all the neighbors; meanwhile, 
where is God getting people for His spiritual office? You 
have the people and will not give them ; your neighbor also 
will not give them ; thus the office goes to destruction, so far 
as your part in it is concerned. Because, then, you allow the 
office, instituted and established by your God and so dearly 
won, go to ruin and be destroyed, with such horrible ingrati- 
tude, you will be accursed and have nothing but shame 
and misery for yourself and your children, or be so tor- 
mented otherwise that both you and they will be damned, 
not only here on earth, but eternally in hell. This will not 
fail; and you will learn that your children are not so wholly 
yours that you need give nothing of them to God. It is His 
will that He shall also have a right in them; and they are 
more His than yours. 

In order that you may not think that I am too severe with 
you in this, I shall lay before you a partial statement of the 
profit and the loss (for who can tell it all?) that you experi- 
ence, so that you yourself may be compelled to say that you 


Respoiir 

Edbillty 

far fhe 
MiniatxT 



[[p. 146]]


belong to the devil and ought rightly to be damned eternally 
in heU, if you find yourself guilty in this matter and do not 
reform; or else that you may rejoice and be glad from the 
heart, if you find that you are chosen by God, with your 
wealth and your labor, to raise a son who will be a pious 
Christian pastor, preacher, or school-teacher, and thereby 
have raised for God a special servant, nay (as has been said) 
an angel of God, a true bishop before God, a savior of many 
people, a king and prince in the kingdom of Christ, and a 
teacher of God’s people, a light of the world. Who can tell 
all the glory and the virtue that a real and faithful pastor has 
in the eyes of God? There is no dearer treasure, nor any 
more precious thing on earth or in this life than a real and 
faithful pastor or preacher. 

^ Reckon for yourself the profit which the preaching-office 
of souls produce ; your son is assuredly produc- 
Ministry ing this profit, if he is conducting this office faithfully. For 
example, — So many souls are daily taught by him, converted, 
baptized and brought to Christ and saved, redeemed from 
sins, death, hell, and the devil, and through him come to ever- 
lasting righteousness, to everlasting life and heaven. As 
^^’,3 Daniel says, ‘They that teach others shall shine as the 
heavens, and they that turn many to righteousness shall be 
as the stars in eternity.” Because God’s Word and office 
when they are rightly administered, must without ceasing do 
great things, and work actual miracles, so your son must 
without ceasing do great miracles before God, such as raising 
the dead, driving out devils, making the blind to see, the deaf 
to hear, the lepers clean, the dumb to speak. Though these 
things may not happen in a bodily way, yet they do happen 
spiritually in the soul, where the miracles are even greater. 
Christ says, in John xiv, “He that believeth on Me shall do 
° u-12 works that I do, and do still greater works.” If a believer 
can do this to single individuals, how much more will a public 
preacher do it to a great crowd? Not that he does this as a 
man ! It is his office, ordained by God for this purpose, that 
does it, that and the Word of God which he teaches ; he is 
the instrument for this. 



[[p. 147]]

Now if he does such great works and miracles spiritually, 
it follows that he does them also in a bodily way, or at 
least begins and causes them* For how does it happen that Miracie« 
Christians will rise from the dead at the Last Day, and that ^ 
all the deaf, blind, lame, and those that suffer other bodily 
ills, must lay these ills off, and their bodies become not only 
fine and beautiful and sound, but even shine as bright and 
fair as suns, as Christ says? Is it not because here on Miatt. 
earth, through God's Word, they have been converted, become 
believers, been baptized, and been incorporated into Christ? 

Thus Paul says, in Romans viii, that God will raise up our Rom. 
mortal bodies because of the Spirit Who dwelleth in us. 

Now who helps men to this faith and to this beginning of 
the resurrection of the body without the office of preaching 
and of the Word of God, which your son has ? Is that not 
an immeasurably greater and more glorious work and miracle 
than if he were in a bodily or temporal way to raise the dead 
again to this life, or help the blind, deaf, dumb, and leprous 
in the world and in this transitory life? 

If you were sure that your son would do this work for 
one single man, viz., that he would make one blind man see 
or one dead man rise, take one soul from the devil, rescue 
one person from hell; whichever one of these things he 
would do, ought you not rightly, with all joy, pledge all of The Be^ 
your property to train him for this office and work, and leap 
for joy because with your money you had accomplished so » son 
great a thing for God? What are all the foundations and 
monastic houses, as they now exist, with all their works, ^ 
compared with one such pastor, preacher, or school-teacher? 

In former times, and at the beginning, they were founded, 
indeed, by pious kings and lords for the precious work of 
training such preachers and pastors ; but now, sad to say ! 
they have fallen, through the devil’s activity, into such a 
wretched state that they have become caves of death and 
outer courts of hell, for the conuption and injury of the 
Churdi* 

See, now ! Your son does these works, not only for one 
person, but for many, nay, for all men together; and he 



[[p. 148]]


does them every day. Best of all, he does them in the sight 
of God, Who looks upon them and holds them so high and 
dear, as has been said,^ even though men may not recognize 
them or pay any heed to them. Nay, if all the world calls 
him a heretic, a deceiver, a liar, a rebel, it is so much the 
better, and is a good sign that he is an upright man and like 
his Lord Christ, For Christ, too, had to be a rebel, a 
murderer, and a deceiver, and be judged and crucified with 
the murderers. What would it matter, if I were a preacher, 
that the world called me a devil, if I knew that God called 
me His angel ? Let the world call me a deceiver as long as 
it will ; God calls me His true servant and steward, the angels 
call me their comrade, the saints call me their brother, be- 
lievers call me their father, wretched souls call me their 
savior, the ignorant call me their light; and God says ‘Wes, 
it is so,” and the angels and all creatures join in. Ah! 
How prettily has the world, together with the devil, deceived 
me, with its slanders and scoffings! What has it won at 
my expense ? What harm has it done me ? The dear thing 1 
I have spoken of the works and wonders which your son 
does for souls, to help them against sin and death and the 
Wo^ devil. But for the world, too, he does great and mighty 
for th© works. He informs and instructs all classes how they are to 
World (>onduct themselves outwardly in their offices and ranks, so 
that they may do what is right before God; he can comfort 
wTin- advise those who are troubled, compose difficulties, 
teiuuice relieve troubled consciences, help to maintain peace and to 
of Peace settle and remove differences, doing innumerable works of 
this kind every day. For a preacher confirms and strengthens 
and helps to maintain government, and temporal peace of all 
kinds. He checks the rebellious ; teaches obedience, morals, 
discipline, and honor; instructs fathers and mothers and 
children and servants in their duties; in a word, he is the 
teacher of all secular offices and ranks. These are, indeed, 
the smallest good works of a pastor, and yet they are so 
high and noble that no wise men among all the heathen have 


^Scc ab(3(vc, p. 143, 




[[p. 149]]


either known them or understood them, still less been able to 
do them. Nay more, even today no jurist, no university, 
foundation, or monastery knows these works, and they are 
not taught either in canon law or secular law. For in these 
spheres there is no one who calls these offices God’s great 
gifts, or His gracious ordinances; it is only the Word of 
God and the preachers that praise and honor them so highly. 

Therefore, to tell the truth, peace, which is the greatest 
of earthly goods, and in which all other temporal goods are 
comprised, is really a fruit of true preaching, for where true 
preaching is, there war and discord and bloodshed do not 
come; but where the preaching is not right, it is no wonder 
that there is war or constant unrest and the desire and the 
will for fighting and the shedding of blood. We can see 
right now that the sophists can do nothing but cry ^^Blood’^ 
and spit fire. They are shedding the blood of innocent 
priests because they have married, although the pope and 
their own canon law, while they punish this kind of marriage 
severely, only depose the priest from his office, but leave their 
persons and their property untouched and allow them to 
retain their Christian honor ; still less do they condemn such 
priests to hell or regard them as heretics. To this the jurists 
and all the world bear witness, and it was made a law at the 
diet of Nuremberg. But these blind blood-hounds have 
given up preaching and betaken themselves to lies, and there- 
fore they cannot desist from murder. The devil, their god, 
does this also. He was from the beginning, and still re- 
mains, "'a liar and a murderer.” 

A true pastor, then, serves men in body and soul, in 
property and honor. See now how he serves God and what 
a glorious sacrifice, or service,^ he renders ; for by his work 
and his word the kingdom of God is maintained in the 
world; so, too, are kept the Name and the honor and the 
glory of God, the true knowledge of God, the right faith 
and understanding of Christ, the fruits of the suffering and 
blood and death of Christ, the gifts and works and power of 


John 

8:44 


The 
Service 
ot God 


^Gottesdienst ^'senrice of God” or “worship.” 



[[p. 150]]


the Holy Spirit, the true and saving use of baptism and the 
Sacrament, the right and pure doctrine of the Gospel, the 
right way of disciplining and crucifying the body. Who 
could ever give high enough praise to any one of these 
things? What more can be said about them? The more 
one does with these things, the more he carries on the battle 
against the devil, the world's wisdom, and the imaginations 
of the flesh; the more victories he wins; the more he puts 
down error and prevents heresy. For he must strive and 
fight against the gates of hell and overcome the devil. He 
does it, too; and yet not he, but his work and his word.' 
These are the innumerable and unspeakable works and 
miracles of the preaching-office. In a word, if one would 
praise God to the uttermost, one must praise His Word and 
the preaching of it; for it is God's Word, and the preaching 
of it is His. 

Now even though you were a king, you ought not think 
yourself worthy to give your son and train him to this office 
and work, even at the cost of all that you had. Is not the 
money and the labor that you expend on such a son too 
highly honored, too gloriously blessed, too profitably in- 
vested? Is it not counted in God's sight better than any 
kingdom or empire? A man ought to go on his knees to the 
ends of the earth, carrying his penny, if he were sure that 
there it could be so gloriously and profitably invested; and 
yet, only see ! You have in your house and on your lap that 
in which you can invest it so gloriously. Shame, and shame, 
and shame again upon our blind and shameful ingratitude! 
We do not see what a fine and beautiful service we could 
render to God; nay, what great lords we could be in His 
sight, with just a little effort, and that with our own money 
and property. 

The sophists accuse us Lutherans of not teaching good 
works. Fine fellows they are! They have not so bad an 
understanding of good works ! Are not the things that have 
been mentioned good works? What are all the works of 
the foundations and the monasteries compared with these 

^Scin ampt, i.c., the work of his office. 




[[p. 151]]


glorious wonders? They are the cawings of daws and 
ravens, and not as good as the cawing of the daws; for 
the daws caw from love, because they take pleasure in it, 
but they howl their croakings without pleasure, like hoopees 
or owls. Now if it was formerly the custom to think 
highly of new priests and their first masses,^ and if fathers 
and mothers and all their friends were glad that they had 
raised a son to be an idle, lazy, useless mass-priest, or 
glutton,’ who puts God to shame with his blasphemous sacri- 
fice of the mass and his wasted prayers, and scandalizes and 
defrauds the world with his unchaste life; how much more 
should you rejoice if you have raised a son for this office* 
and are sure that he serves God so gloriously, helps men so 
richly, and smites the devil in such knightly fashion? You 
have made your son a genuine and fine sacrifice to God, and 
the very angels must look upon it as a splendid miracle. 

You ought also to know the harm that you are doing, if 
you take the opposite course. If God has given you a child 
who has the ability and the talent for this office, and you do 
not train him for it, but look only to the belly and to temporal 
livelihood, then take the list of things mentioned above and 
run over the good works and wonders noted there, and see 
what a pious prig and small potato* you are. For, so far as 
in you lies, you are depriving God of an angel, a servant, a 
king and prince in His kingdom, a savior and comforter of 
men in matters that pertain to body and soul, property and 
honor, a captain and a knight to fight against the devil. 
Thus you are making place for the devil and advancing his 
kingdom, so that he keeps souls in sin and death and hell, 
and daily brings more into them, and wins victories every- 
where; the world remains in heresy, errors, contention, war, 
and strife and gets worse every day; the kingdom of God 
goes down, together with Christian faith, the fruits of the 
sufferings and the blood of Christ, the work of the Holy 
Spirit, the Gospel, and all worship of God; and all devil- 
worship and misbelief get the upper hand. All of this need 

^ Sec aboye p. 144 . ^Messpfaffen oder fresspfaffen. 

• le., The office of preaching. 

* The exact equivalent of Luther’s kreutlciu. 


The 
Wrong 
of Keep- 
ing a Son 
from the 
Ministry 



[[p. 152]]


not have happened and could have been hindered, or even 
improved, if your son had been trained for this work and 
entered it. 

Suppose that God were to address you on your death-bed, 
or at the Last Judgment, and say, — “I was hungry, thirsty, a 
stranger, naked, sick, imprisoned, and you rendered me no 
g ' service? For in that you have not done it to people on 
earth, or to my kingdom or Gospel, but have helped put them 
down and allowed men's souls to be ruined, you have done 
this to me; for you could have helped. I had given you a 
child and money for this purpose, but you wantonly allowed 
me and my kingdom and all men's souls to suffer want and 
pine away, and thereby served the devil and his kingdom 
against me and my kingdom; now let him be your reward. 
Go with him into the abyss of hell. My kingdom in heaven 
and earth you have not helped to build, but to destroy and 
weaken ; but you have helped the devil to build and increase 
his hell; live, therefore in the house that you have built.” 
How shall you stand then? 

What think you? Will you not be overwhelmed, not by 
little drops of sin, but by whole cloudbursts of it — ^you, who 
now give no heed and go along securely, as though you were 
doing well not to train your child in doctrine ? But then you 
will have to say that you are justly condemned to the abyss 
of hell as one of the worst and most harmful of men who 
have lived on earth, and indeed, if you were to consider these 
things, even now, while you are living, you would be truly 
horrified at yourself, for no conscience can endure it to be 
found guilty of the things that have been mentioned; how 
much less can it endure it, if things like this, more than can 
be numbered, fall on it all at once, and suddenly? Your 
heart will then have to cry out that your sins are more than 
Prayer the leaves and the grass, and greater than heaven and earth; 

you will say, with Manassah, king of Judah, “My sins 
are more than the sands of the sea, and my iniquity is great.” 
Even the law of nature tells you that. He who can prevent 
injury, and does not, is guilty of the injury, because he 
certainly desired and willed the injury, and would inflict it 



[[p. 153]]


himself, if he had occasion or opportunity. These people, 
therefore, are certainly as good as the devil himself, because 
they are so hostile to both God and the world that they help 
to ruin both heaven and earth, and serve the devil so faith- 
fully. In a word, if we can call the devil hard enough names, 
then we can give hard enough names to these people, who 
hinder the work of God ; for they are the servants of the 
devil. 

By what I have said I do not want to insist that every man 
must train his child for this office, for not all the boys must 
become pastors, preachers and school-masters. It is well to 
know that the children of lords and great men are not to be 
used for this work, for the world needs heirs and people, 
otherwise the government will go to pieces.'^ I am speaking 
of the common people, who used to have their children 
educated for the sake of the livings and benefices, and now 
keep them away, only for the sake of support. They do 
not need heirs, and yet they keep their children out of 
school, regardless of the fact that the children are clever 
and apt for these offices, and could serve God in them, with- 
out privation or hindrance. Such boys of ability ought to 
be kept at study, especially if they are poor men's sons, for 
all the foundations and monasteries and livings endowments 
were established for this purpose. Beside them, indeed, 
other boys ought also to study, even though they are not so 
clever, and ought to learn to understand, write, and read 
Latin; for it is not only highly learned Doctors and Masters 
of Holy Scripture, that we need. We must also have ordi- 
nary pastors, who will teach the Gospel and the Catechism* 
to the young and the ignorant, and baptize, and administer 
the Sacrament. They are of no use in a conflict with heretics, 
but that does not matter; in a good building we must have 
not only hewn facings, but also backing-stone; so we must 
have sacristans and other persons, who serve and help the 
preachers and the Word of God. 

* The hereditary feudal lordship was the only form of government that Luther 
knew. 

“the catechism” Luther means her^ as generally, the Commandments, 
the Creed, and the Lord’s Prayer, 


Ldaca- 
tioiL Not 
for tile 
Ministry 
Only 



[[p. 154]]

Even though a boy who has studied Latin afterwards 
learns a handicraft, and becomes a burgher, we have him in 
reserve, in case he should have to be used as a pastor, or in 
some other service of the Word. His knowledge does not 
hurt him in the earning of a living ; on the contrary, he can 
rule his house all the better because of it, and besides, he is 
prepared for the work of preacher or pastor, if he is needed. 
It is especially easy in our day to train persons who can teach 
the Gospel and the Catechism, because not only Holy Scrip- 
tures, but knowledge of all kinds is so abundant, what with 
so many books, and so much reading, and (thank God!) so 
much preaching, that one can learn more in three years than 
used to be possible in twenty. Even women and children 
can now learn from German books and sermons more about 
God and Christ (I am telling only the truth!) than all the 
imiversities, foundations, monasteries, the whole papacy and 
all the world used to know. But the ordinary pastors must 
be able to use Latin; they cannot do without it any more 
than the scholars can do without Greek and Hebrew; so 
St. Augustine says, and so even the canon law prescribes. 

But you say, ^^Suppose things were to turn out badly, and 
my son were to become a heretic, or a knave of some other 
kind; it is said that the learned are the crooked, etc.^’ O 
well! You have to take that chance. Your diligence and 
labor will not be lost. God will have regard to your faithful 
service and count it as though it had turned out well. You 
have to take the chance of how he will turn out in any other 
occupation for which you train him. How was it with the 
good Abraham? His son Ishmael did not turn out well; 
neither did Isaac's son Esau, or Adam's son Cain. Should 
Abraham have given up training his son Isaac, or Isaac his 
son Jacob, or Adam his son Cain for the service of God? 
How many bad kings and people there were among the holy 
and chosen nation of Israel, who were the cause of heresies 
and idolatries and all kinds of misfortune, and who killed all 
the prophets ! Ought Levi the priest to have let the whole 
nation go on that account, and no longer trained anyone for 
the service of God? How many bad priests and I-evitea 



[[p. 155]]

were there in the tribe of Levi, which God Himself had 
chosen for the priesthood? How many people has God on 
the earth who misuse all His kindness and all His creatures? 

Ought He on that account desist from His kindness and let 
no man live? Ought He cease to do good? 

Then, too, in order that you may not worry too much 
about where your son^s living will come from, if he gives Tiie sap. 
himself to learning, and to God’s work and service, He has 5 
not left you or forgotten you, and you ought not to worry 
or complain. He has promised by St, Paul in I Corinthians ^ 
ix, that serves the Gospel shall be supported by the 9 :i 4 
Gospel”; and Christ Himself says in Matthew x, “A laborer 
is worthy of his hire ; eat and drink what they have.” Under 
the Old Testament, in order that His office of preaching 
might not perish, He chose and took the whole family 
of Levi, one-twelfth of the whole nation of Israel, and 
gave them the tithe from the whole nation, ,beside the 
first-fruits of all kinds of sacrifices, their own cities 
and villages, fields, pasture-lands, cattle, and all that goes 
with them. Under the New Testament, see how, in former 
times, emperors, kings, princes, and lords gave to this 
office rich possessions, which the foundations and monas- 
teries now hold, and use them to surpass kings and princes. 

He will not and cannot leave those who serve Him faith- 
fully ; the promises that He has made are too great, when get, 

He has said, in Hebrews xiii, “I will not leave thee nor i3;5 
neglect thee.” 

Count for yourself, too, how many parishes, preaching 
places, schools, and sacristanships there are. Most of them 
are sufficiently provided for,* and vacancies are occurring 
every day. What does that mean except that God has pro- 
vided kitchen and cellar for your son, so that his living is 
ready for him before he needs it, and he does not have to 
seek it? When I was a young student, I heard it said that 
in Saxony there were (if I remember rightly) about eighteen 
hundred parishes. If that were true, and every parish re- 
quired at least two persons, a pastor and a sacristan (except 


^ Le., By cndowmests. 



[[p. 156]]

that in the cities there are preachers, chaplains, assistants, 
schoolteachers, and helpers), then in this one principality, 
there are needed about four thousand educated persons, of 
whom about one-third die off every ten years. I would wager 
that in half of Germany there are not four thousand pupils in 
the schools. I estimate that there are scarcely eight hundred 
parishes in Saxony; how many will that make for the whole 
of Germany? I would like to know where we are going to 
get pastors, schoolteachers, and sacristans three years from 
now. If we do nothing about this, and if the princes espe- 
cially do not try to see that the boys’ schools and the 
universities are properly provided for, there will be such a 
scarcity of men that we shall have to give three or four 
towns to one pastor and ten villages to one chaplain, if we 
can get even that many men. 

The universities at Erfurt, Leipzig, and elsewhere are 
ruined, and so are the boys’ schools here and there, so that it 
is distressing to see them, and little Wittenberg now has to 
do better than any of them.'' The foundations and the mon- 
asteries (bad luck to them!) will also feel the scarcity, I 
think. They will not sing the song through on the high pitch 
that they have struck, however refractory they become, and 
even though they have to put up with, or even reverence, 
in their chapters people whom they would once have been 
unwilling to look at. Let your boy go on with his studying 
then, and do not worry; perhaps if the world stands for a 
while longer and God gives the princes and the cities grace to 
act, the property of the foundations and the monasteries will 
come back to the use for which it was appointed. And 
where is the use of worrying much about the belly? There 
stands Christ, and says, ''Do not worry about what ye shall 
6:31-33 eat and drink; your heavenly Father well knows that you 
need this ; seek first the kingdom of God and His righteous- 
ness, and all this will come to you.” If anyone does not 
believe, let him keep on worrying and die of hunger. 

To be sure, it is true that a few years ago many pastors 

^The average number of students at Wittenberg between 1526 and 1530 wat 
250; at Leipzig 145; at) Erfurt 44. See W eimar Ed. XXX,* 550, n. 2. 



[[p. 157]]


did suffer great want, and they still do. That must be blamed 
on the evil that is in the world, making the people so wicked 
and ungrateful and avaricious, and making them persecute 
the Gospel. By this God is trying us to see whether we are 
upright and sincere. We must think of this time as like the 
time of the martyrs, for then, too, godly teachers suffered 
great want and poverty, as Paul himself boasted, and Christ 
also prophesied in Matthew ix, 'When the bridegroom is 
taken from them, then shall they fast/' That is the true 
fasting of the Gospel. Seldom, too, has God's Word come, 
that hard times have not come with it. In the days of 
Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Joseph, Elijah, and Elisha, there 
was cruel want, alongside of the great light of the truth; 
and in the beginning of the Gospel there was a great famine 
throughout the world. This has to be the fault of the dear 
Gospel and the Word of God, and not of the world’s previous 
iniquity and present obstinate ingratitude! Thus the Jews 
blamed all their misery on the teaching of Jeremiah, and the 
Romans, when they were overthrown by the Goths, knew 
nothing to blame it on except the fact that they had become 
Christians; against this St. Augustine wrote a great book, 
De civitate dei.^ 

No matter what people say,* the world is the world. As 
those men became liars and were destroyed, so these shall 
become liars and pass away, that Christ and His Word may 
abide. He is seated firm and high, as it is written, “The 
Lord said to my Lord, Sit thou at my right hand." There 
He sits; if anyone likes, and is wicked, let him pull Him 
down I But as long as He remains seated there, we too shall 
remain; what is the use? To put it in a word, your son can 
easily get as good a living in the preaching office as in a 
trade ; unless it be that you are thinking of great wealth and 
of making your son a great lord in the eyes of the world, 
such as the bishops and canons are. If that is in your mind, 
then what I am saying does not concern you. I am speaking 


Privar 
tions of 
Ministen 


2 Cor. 
11:27 

Matt. 

9:15 


Acts 

11:28 


Jer. 44: 
16 ff. 


Fs. 

110:1 


^The City of God, written shortly after 410 A.D., wHen Rome was 
captured by the Visigoths, under Alaric. 

*La8 wasschen wer da wesscht 



[[p. 158]]


now to believers, who honor the preaching office and hold 
it high above all riches, as the office that is nearest to God 
Himself and the highest treasure that is given to men, so 
that they may know how great is the service they can render 
to God in this, as men who would rather have a part in this 
work, even with small possessions, than have this world’s 
goods and be without this work. These men will recognize 
that the soul is more than the belly, and that the belly may 
easily have enough and be obliged to leave behind that which 
is more than enough. But they that seek riches will take all 
their goods with them; how can that fail? 

Let this be the first part of this sermon, a hasty and brief 
account of the spiritual profit and loss which one has from 
the support or the neglect of the schools. 

The second part will deal with the temporal, or 
'Ww* worldly, profit and loss. And in the first place, it is true 

por^ that the office of worldly government is in no way to be 

Profit compared with the spiritual office of preaching, as St. Paul 
calls it; for it is not purchased at so dear a price as the 
preaching office, with the blood and the death of the Son of 
God ; therefore it cannot do such great wonders and works 
as the preaching office. For all the works of this estate 
belong to this temporal, transient life, — ^the maintaining of 
body, wife, child, house, property, and honor, and what be- 
longs to the needs of this life. As far as eternal life sur- 
passes this temporal life, so far and so high above the 
temporal office does the preaching office go. For worldly 
lordship is a picture, shadow, and figure of the lordship of 
Christ. The office of preaching (where it exists as God 
ordained it) brings and bestows eternal righteousness, eternal 
2 Cor eternal life. This is the praise that St. Paul gives 

4;i ff, Second Corinthians iv. But worldly government main- 
tains temporal and transient peace and life. 

Govern^ Nevertheless it is a glorious ordinance of God and splendid 
ment gift of God, Who has established and instituted it, and will 
have it maintained, as something that men cannot do without 
If there were no worldly government, no man could live be- 
cause of other men; one would devour the other, as the brute 



[[p. 159]]


beasts do. Therefore as it is the function and the honor of the 
office of preaching to make sinners saints, and dead men live, 
and damned men saved, and the devirs children God’s chil- 
dren ; so it is the function and the honor of worldly govern- 
ment to make men out of wild beasts and to prevent men 
from becoming wild beasts. It keeps a man^s body, so that 
not everyone may slay it; it keeps a man’s wife, so that not 
everyone may seize and defile her ; it keeps a man’s child, his 
daughter or son, so that not everyone may carry them away 
and steal them ; it keeps a man’s house, so that not everyone 
may break in and commit outrage there; it keeps a man’s 
fields and cattle and all his goods, so that not everyone may 
attack and steal and rob and damage them. There is nothing 
of this among the beasts, and if it were not for worldly 
government, there would be nothing of it among men, but 
they would cease to be men and become mere beasts. Do 
you not think that, if the birds and beasts could speak, and 
were to see worldly government among men, they would say, 
ye men ! You are not men but gods, compared with us ! 
How safe you live and hold your property, while among us 
no one is sure for an hour of life, or property, or means of 
livelihood, because of the others ! Out upon your thankless- 
ness, who do not see what a glorious life the God of all of 
us has given you compared with us beasts !” 

It is certain, then, that government is a creation and ati 
ordinance of God, and that for us men in this life it is a 
necessary office and rank, which we can no more do without 
than we can do without life itself, since without government 
this life cannot continue. Therefore it is easy to understand 
that God has not commanded it and instituted it in order that 
it may be destroyed, but that He will have it maintained, as 
is clearly stated in Romans xiii by Paul, and in First Peter 
iii, where it is said that they are to protect the good and 
punish the bad. Now who will maintain it except us men, 
to whom God has committed it and who verily need it for 
ourselves? The wild beasts will not maintain it, nor will 
wood and stone. But who are the men that can maintain it? 
Assuredly not only those men who want to rule with the fist, 
Vol. IV.— 11 


Xom. 

13:4 
1 Pet. 
2:13f. 


Wisdom 

Needed 



[[p. 160]]


Prov. 

8:14 


Ecd. 

9:18 

9:16 


Educa^ 
tion for 
Ruler- 
idiip 


as many now think to do. For if the fist alone is to rule, 
things will surely come to such a condition as exists among 
the beasts, and whoever gets the better of another will stick 
him in the bag. We have before our eyes enough examples 
of how much good the fist does without wisdom or reason. 

Therefore Solomon says, in Proverbs viii, that wisdom 
must rule, not force, and speaks of wisdom thus, ''Mine is 
both counsel and help; mine is both understanding and 
might; by me must kings be kings, and counsellors sit justly” ; 
and in Ecclesiastes x, "Wisdom is better than armor or 
weapons” ; and again, "Wisdom is better than strength.” All 
experience proves this and in all the histories we find that 
force, without reason or wisdom, has never once accom- 
plished anything. Therefore the murderers and tyrants, if 
they do not proceed cautiously and get some justice and 
counsel and laws among them (even though they are them- 
selves wicked), and direct and use their fist and their power 
accordingly, will not be able to continue, but will fall out 
with one another and go to destruction of themselves. Briefly, 
then, it is not the law of the fist, but the law of the head 
that must rule; not force, but wisdom or reason, among the 
wicked as among the good. 

Accordingly, since our government in Germany must be 
guided by the Roman imperial law, and this is our govern- 
ment's wisdom and reason, given it by God, it follows that 
this government cannot be maintained, but must go to de- 
struction, unless this law is maintained. Now who will main- 
tain it ? Fist and armor do not ; heads and books must do 
it. Men must learn and know the law and the wisdom of 
our worldly government. It is a fine thing, to be sure, if an 
emperor, prince, or lord is by nature so wise and able that 
he can get at the law without studying it,^ as could Duke 
Frederick of Saxony^ and Sir Fabian von Feilitsch,® both 
of whom I knew. I will not mention any men who are 

^Das er das recht atiswen.dig trefen kan. 

^The Elector Frederick, d. 1525. 

•Fabian von Feilitscb, d. 1520, one of the councillors of Frederick of Saxony. 
Luther dedicated to him the Assertio omnium articulorum, of 
1521, though he died before the work was published. Cf. Weimar Ed. Vll, 
91 ff.; Enders, III, 3. 



[[p. 161]]


now living. But because such birds are rare and their ex- 
amples are dangerous on account of the others who have not 
this power by nature, it is better, in ruling, to keep the 
common law that is written in the books, so that the govern- 
ment may have greater reputation and honor and need no 
miracles or special gifts. 

Thus the jurists and scholars in this worldly government 
are the persons who preserve this law, and maintain the 
worldly government; and just as a pious theologian and 
sincere preacher is called, in the realm of Christ, an angel 
of God, a savior, prophet, priest, servant, and teacher (as 
has been said above) so a pious jurist and true scholar can 
be called, in the worldly realm of the emperor, a prophet, 
priest, angel, and savior. Moreover, as a heretic or false 
preacher is, in the realm of Christ, a devil, thief, murderer, 
and blasphemer, so a false and faithless jurist, in the em- 
peror^s house or realm, is a thief and a knave and a traitor, 
a scoundrel and a devil for the whole Empire. When I 
speak of the jurists, I do not mean only the Doctors of Laws, 
but the whole profession,* including chancellors, secretaries,* 
judges, advocates, notaries, and all who have to do with the 
legal side of government ; also the big-bugs known as coun- 
sellors, for they, too, work with law, and belong among the 
jurists; and just as the word ‘"counsellors’" (Rethe) 
is not far from the word “traitors” (Verrether),* 
so the deeds of the two are not far apart; they “counsel” 
their lords, at times, so faithfully that no traitor could betray 
them so well. 

You see, then, the profit that a pious legal scholar, or 
jurist, can produce; nay, who can tell it all? For whatever 
belongs to the work and ordinance of God produces con- 
stantly so many and so great fruits that they cannot be 
counted or comprehended. For one thing, he maintains and 
helps to further with his law book, (by God’s ordinance), 


1 See above, p. 143, 145 fF. 

®Das gantze handwerck. 

*The ‘‘secretaries” were tbe law officers of the mcorporrated towns. 

* The play on words cannot he rendered into English. Luther writes, W i e 

das wort Rethe nicht weit rom wort Verrethcr ist. 




[[p. 162]]


the whole worldly goviernment, — emperor, princes, lords, 
cities, land, and people, as been said above for all of 
these must be preserved by wisdom and law. But who will 
praise this work highly enough? From it you have guardian- 
ship and protection for your body and life, against neighbors, 
enemies, murderers. Then, too, you have protection and 
peace for your wife, daughter, son, house, and home, ser- 
vants, money, property, lands, and everything that you have. 
For all of tliis is bound around, walled in, and hedged about 
with law. The greatness of all this can never be completely 
written in any books ; for who will speak fully of the un- 
speakable blessing of peace, and say how much it both gives 
and saves in one single year? 

All these great works your son can do, and he can become 
so useful a man, if you will hold him to it, and have him 
study; and you can become a partaker of all this, and invest 
your money thus profitably. Ought it not to flatter you, and 
be a great honor for you, to see your son an angel in the 
empire and an apostle of the empire, and a cornerstone and 
bulwark of temporal peace on earth, and all this with the 
certainty that God so regards it, and that it is really true? 
For although this work does not make men righteous before 
God, or save them, nevertheless, it is a joyful comfort to 
know that these works please God so well, and please Him 
even more when such a man is a believer and in the kingdom 
of Christ ; for in this way he thanks God for His benefits 
and presents the finest thank-offering, the highest worship. 

You must be a gross, ungrateful clod, worthy that men 
should drive you out among the beasts, if you saw that your 
Sons for son could become a man to help the emperor preserve his 
tiw Law empire, sword, and crown; to help the prince rule his land; 
to coimsel and help cities and territories; to help protect so 
many men’s bodies, wives, children, property, and honor; 
and would not risk enough on it to permit your son to study 
and come to this position. Tell me, what do all the founda- 
tions, monasteries, and the like do? I would take the work 
of a faithful, pious jurist and secretary in preference to the 


^P. 1S9, 161. 


[[p. 163]]


holiness of all priests, monks, and nuns, even when they are 
doing their very best. If these great and good works do 
not move you, then you ought at least be moved by the 
honor and the good pleasure of God, when you know that 
by this means you thank God so gloriously and render Him 
such great service, as has been said. It is a shameful despis- 
ing of God that we do not grant this glorious and divine work 
to our children, and only stick them into the service of the 
belly and of avarice, and do not let them study except to 
seek a living, like hogs, wallowing forever with noses in the 
filth, and do not train them to so worthy a rank and duty. 
Certainly we must either be crazy, or without love for our 
children. 

But listen still further. Suppose that it is God’s will, and 
that He demands your son for this office! You surely owe 
it to your God to help maintain this institution, if you can. 

Now it cannot be maintained unless we keep our children at 
their studies and in school; there is no doubt about that. 

And there is need in this office of abler people than are 
needed in the office of preaching, so that it is necessary to 
keep the best boy for this work ; for in the preaching office 
Christ does the whole thing, by His Spirit, but in worldly 
government one must use reason, — from which the laws have 
come, — for God has subjected temporal rule and bodily Gen. 
things to reason (Genesis ii), and has not sent the Holy 
Spirit from heaven for this purpose. Therefore governing 
is harder, because it cannot be ruling over things that are 
certain, and must act, so to speak, in the dark. 

Now if you have a son who is gifted for learning, and you 
can keep him at it, and do not do so, but go your way without 
asking what is to become of worldly government and law 
and peace; then you are doing everything you can against 
worlffiy authority, like the Turks, nay, like the devil himself. 

For you are taking from empire, princedom, land, city, a 
savior, comforter, cornerstone, helper, and deliverer, and so 
far as you are concerned, the emperor might lose sword and 
crown, the land lose protection and peace ; and you are the 
man through yrhose fault (so far as your power goes) no 



[[p. 164]]

one may have securely his body, wife, child, house, home, or 
goods ; but you offer all these freely on the butcher's bench, 
and become the reason why men are to become mere beasts, 
and devour one another in the end. All this you assuredly 
are doing, especially if you are knowingly keeping your son 
out of this wholesome office for the belly's sake. Now are 
you not a fine, useful man in the world ? Every day you use 
the empire and its peace, and by way of thanks you rob it 
of your son and stick him into the service of avarice, and 
thus you strive with all diligence that there may be no one 
to help maintain the empire and law and peace, but that 
ever3rthing may go to destruction, provided only that by this 
empire you may have and keep your own body and life, 
property and honor. 

What do you think you have deserved by this ? Are you 
worthy that men should let you live among them? But 
what will God say to it, Who has given you your child and 
your property so that you may serve God with them and 
keep your son in His service? Or is it not serving God 
when we help maintain His ordinance, and worldly govern- 
ment? Now you neglect that service as though it were no 
concern of yours, or as though you were more free than 
other men, and were not bound to serve God, but might do 
as you pleased with your son and your property, even though 
God, with both His worldly and His spiritual empire, were 
to fall into the abyss. And yet you want to make daily use 
of the empire's protection, peace, and law, and to have the 
preaching office and the Word of God ready for you and at 
your service, so that God may serve you free of charge both 
with preaching and with worldly government, in order that, 
without any worry, you may take your son away from Him 
and teach him to serve only Mammon Do you not think 
that God will some day say such a Benedicite 
over your avarice and belly-care as will ruin you, both here 
and hereafter, with your son and all that you have? Dear 
fellow, is not your heart terrified at this abominable abomina- 
tion, — ^your idolatry, despising of God, ingratitude, your 
destruction of both of God's institutions and ordinances. 



[[p. 165]]


nay, the injury and ruin that you inflict on all men? Ah, 
well! I have told you and warned you; do you see to it! 
You hear both the profit you can gain and the loss that you 
can suffer, do as you please; God will recompense you. 

I shall say nothing here about the fine pleasure that a man 
gets from having studied, even though he never has an 
office of any kind; how at home by himself he can read all 
kinds of things, how he can talk and associate with the 
learned; travel and do business in foreign lands; for perhaps 
there are very few people who are moved by this pleasure. 
But since you are so bent on the pursuit of Mammon and of 
a living, see how much and how great is the wealth that 
God has put at the disposal of the schools and scholars, so 
that you have no need to despise learning and knowledge 
because of your poverty. Then see that emperors and kings 
must have chancellors and secretaries, counsellors, jurists, 
and scholars ; there is no prince who does not need to have 
chancellors, jurists, counsellors, scholars, and secretaries; 
all the counts, lords, cities, and castles must have syndics, 
secretaries, and other scholars; there is not a noble but 
must have a secretary; and to speak of men of ordinary 
education, there are also the miners and the merchants and 
the traders. Only count the number of kings, princes, counts, 
lords, cities, etc. Three years from now, where shall we be 
getting the educated men, when the scarcity is now beginning 
here and there? I really believe that kings will have to 
become lawyers, princes chancellors, counts and lords secre- 
taries, and burgomasters sacristans. 

Unless something is done about this quickly, we must 
become Tartars or Turks, or an uneducated schoolmaster* 
will become a doctor and counsellor at court. Therefore I 
hold that there was never a better time to study than now; 
not only because knowledge is so abundant and so cheap, but 
also because of the great wealth and honor that must follow 
knowledge. Those who study in these times will become ex- 
pensive folk, for two princes and three cities will yet compete 
for one scholar. For whether you look above you or about 


The Re- 
wards 
of Eda- 
catioin 


Scarcity 
of Edit* 
cated 


*Locat Oder bacchant, see above, p. 140. 



[[p. 166]]


you, you find that countless offices are waiting in these next 
ten years for scholars, and yet there are very few who are be- 
ing trained for them. And not only has God appointed such 
great wealth for schools and scholars, but it is honorable and 
divine wealth, earned in a divine and honorable position, by 
many glorious, good, and useful works, which please God 
and are a service of God. The avaricious man, on the con- 
trary, earns his wealth with despite (even though his works 
are not Godless and sinful) and with hateful works, about 
which he cannot have a glad conscience, and cannot say that 
he is serving God with them. For my part, I would rather 
earn ten gulden by a work that is a service of God, 
than a thousand gulden by a work that is not a 
service of God, but only of my own profit and of Mammon. 

But with this honorable wealth honor also goes. Chan- 
cellors, secretaries, and the people who hold the offices sit 
also in high places and help to counsel and to rule, as has 
been said,^ and they are in actual fact lords upon earth, even 
though they are not lords personally and by birth and rank. 

^^7 king's work, and it is true. 

A chancellor must attend to the work or business of em- 
peror, king, or prince; a town secretary must do the work 
of the Council or the town; and this with God and with 
honor, for God gives it blessing and good fortune and suc- 
cess. And when an emperor, king, prince is not at war, but 
rules by law, what is he except a secretary and a jurist, if it 
is the work he does that we are speaking of ? For they deal 
with the law, and that is the work of a secretary or a jurist. 
Who rules the prince's land and people when there is peace, 
and not war? Is it the fighting-men, or the captains? I 
think it is the pen that does it. And what is greedy-belly 
doing, meantime, with his Mammon ? He comes to no such 
honor, and dirties himself the while with his rust-eaten 
money. 

The Emperor Justinian* himself declares; 0 portet 

^ See above, p. 162. 

^Justinian (Roman Empercw:, 527-565) caused the preparation of the great 
code of Roman Law which was the basis of the German legal system of Luther's 
day. Luther is quoting the Constitutio imperitoriaxn majes- 
tatem, which forms the preface to his Institutions. 



[[p. 167]]


majestatem imepritoriam non solum armis 
decoratum, sed etiam legibus armatam 
esse. ‘Imperial majesty/’ he says, “must not only be 
adorned with arms, but also armed with laws.” See how 
daringly this emperor turns his words about. He calls the 
laws his armor and weapons, and arms his decoration and 
adornment; he would make his secretaries his knights and 
fighting-men. It is finely said indeed. For the laws are 
indeed the true armor and weapons which maintain and 
protect land and people, nay, the very empire itself, and the 
worldly government, as has been sufficiently told above. Thus 
wisdom is better than might, and pious jurists are the true 
knights, who defend the emperor and the princes. Many 
sayings of this kind couM be brought out of the poets and 
the histories, but it would take too long. Solomon himself 
says, in Ecclesiastes ix, that a poor man saved a city, by his 
wisdom, from a mighty king. 

I do not wish to be understood as breaking off, by what I Hanor- 
have said, with soldiers, fighting-men, and those whose busi- 
ness is war, or as despising or casting them off. They too, 
when they are obedient, help with their fist, to protect peace 
and ever3^hing. Everything has its own honor before God, 
as His ordinance and work. But I must also praise my 
own trade" for once because my neighbors have fallen out 
with it and there is danger that it may come into contempt. 

This is the way that St. Paul praises his own office so con- 
stantly that some think he goes too far and is guilty of pride. 

If there is anyone who wants to have force and soldiers 
praised and honored, he will find enough about the things 
for which they are to be praised, I hope, in another little 
book, in which I have praised them honestly and fully. 

For the jurists and petty secretaries do not please me at all 
when they so praise themselves as to despise or mock at 
other classes, as though they were the whole thing and there 
was nobody else in the world who amounted to anything 
except themselves. This is what the shavelings* and the 

Schoilarsliip. 

*Schucrlingc, the tonsured clergy. 



16y A Sermon on Keeping UUUdren in scnooi 


whole papacy have done heretofore. All classes and all the 
works of God are to be praised as highly as ever they can 
be, and none of them is to be despised in favor of another, 
for it is written, Confessio et magnificentia 
opus e j u s , “What God does is fair and fine’' f and again 
Ps. ’ in Psalm civ, “God is well pleased with His works." Espe- 
104:31 dally ought preachers to impress these ideas upon the people 
from their youth up, schoolteachers impress them on the 
boys, and parents on their children, so that they may well 
learn what classes and offices are God's and ordained of 
God. If they know this, so that they despise and mock at 
and speak evil of none of them, but hold them all in honor, 
that pleases God and serves the cause of peace and unity; 
for God is a great lord, and has many kinds of servants. 
Scholars We find, too, some swaggerers who permit themselves to 
think that the name “secretary" is scarcely worthy to be 
Com- mentioned or listened to. 0 well! Do not let that worry 
pared you! Remember that these good fellows must sometimes 
have a little pastime and fun, and let this be their fun ! You 
are still a secretary before God and the world. They may 
swagger, but notice that they pay the highest honor to the 
quill. They put it" on the top of their hats and their helmets, 
as though to confess, by this act, that the quill is the highest 
thing in the world, without which they would be armed for 
battle and could not walk about in times of peace, still less 
swagger so boldly. For they, too, must make use of the 
peace which the emperor's preachers and teachers, i. e. the 
jurists, teach and maintain. You see, therefore, that they 
put the tool of our trade, the good quill, on top, and rightly; 
but the tool of their trade, the sword, they gird about their 
loins, where it hangs well and is ready for their work. On 
their heads it would not be becoming; there the quill must 
wave. So if they have sinned against you, this is their 
penance, and you should forgive them. 

But that brings me to this fact. There are many great 
to whom the trade of a writer is a hateful thing, because 


^ “His work is honor and majesty” (Eng. R. V.) 

* Luther’s f e d d e r means both "pen” and “plume.’ 



[[p. 169]]

they do not know, or do not consider, that it is a divine 
ofEce and work, and do not see how necessary and useful 
it is to the world; and if they were to see (which may 
God forbid!), their knowledge would come too late. There- 
fore, this is what you ought to do. Pay no attention to 
them, and look around at fine, pious noblemen, such as 
Count George von Wertheim,^ Hans von Schwarzenberg/ 

George von Frundsberg,® and their like, who are dead, for I 
will say nothing about the living. Refresh yourself and 
comfort yourself with them, and remember that for the sake 
of one man, Lot, God honored the whole land of Zoar; for 1^:21 
the sake of a single Naaman, the whole land of Syria; for 2 Kings 
the sake of one Joseph, the whole kingdom of Egypt. Why 
should not you also honor all the nobility for the sake of 4 i ;47 
the many honest noblemen whom you, without doubt, have 
before your eyes ? And when you look at them, you must 
think that there is not a bad one left. How could it be that 
untimely fruit should not fall from the fair tree of nobility, 
and that some of the fruit should not be wormy and warty? 

That does not make it a bad tree, to be condemned. Thus 
it is with the children of God. For God Himself spares 
the whole human race for the sake of one man, whose name 
is Jesus Christ ; if He were to look only at men, He would 
have nothing but wrath. The preachers, to be sure, and the 
worldly authorities, cannot do this, and neither look at nor 
consider anything bad, for they must punish the bad, one 
with the word, the other with the sword. But I am speaking 
to individuals, as Christians, and say that they ought to 
learn to distinguish between God’s work and men’s wicked- 
ness. In all of God’s offices and ranks there are many 
wicked men; but the rank is and remains good, no matter 
how much men misuse it. You find many bad women, many 
false servants, many unfaithful maids, many wrong-doing 


^ George von Wertheim (d.lS30) introd'uccd tte Refonnatioii into his terri- 
tories in 1522. Cf. Enders, IV, 3 r. n. 11. 

^Johann von Schwarzenbcrg (1463-1528) a patron of learning, as well as or 
the Reformation. Biographies hy Wagner (Berlin, 1893) and W. Scheee (Ber- 
lin. 1905). 

•George von Fmndsherg (d. 1527), one of tlje moat famous German soldiers 
of his day. See Allgem. Deutsche Biographic, VIII, 154 ff. 



[[p. 170]]

officials and counsellors; nevertheless, the classes — ^wlves, 
servants, maids — and all the offices are Gk)d's institution, 
work, and ordinance. The sun remains good, even though 
the whole world misuse it, one to rob and another to kill, one 
to do this kind of evil and another that. Who could do 
anything evil, unless he had the sun to light him to it, and 
the earth to hold him up, and the air to keep him alive, and 
thus had God Himself to guard him? The saying continues 
true, Omnis creatura subjecta est vanitate, 
sed non volens^ (Romans viii). 

Some think that the office of writer is a light and little 
office, while it is a real work to ride in armor and endure 
heat, frost, dust, thirst, and other discomforts. Of course ! 
That is the old story! No one sees where the other’s shoe 
pinches, and stands agape at the other man’s good luck. 
True it is that it would be hard for me to ride in armor; 
but, on the other hand, I would like to see the horseman 
who could sit still the whole day and look into a book, even 
though he had nothing to care about, to dream, to think, or 
to read. Ask a writer, preacher, or speaker whether writing 
and speaking is work; ask a schoolmaster whether teaching 
and training boys is work? The pen is light; that is true. 
Also there is no tool of any of the trades that is easier to 
get than the writer’s tool, for all that is needed is goose 
feathers, and there are enough of them everywhere. But 
the best part of the body (which is the head) must lay hold 
here and do most of the work, and the noblest of the mem- 
bers (which is the tongue), and the high faculty (which is 
speech) . In other occupations, it is only the fist or the foot 
or the back or some other such member that has to work ; 
and while they are at it, they can sing and jest, which the 
writer cannot do. “Three fingers do it,” they say of writers ; 
but a man’s whole body and soul work at it. 

I have heard it said of the praiseworthy and dear Emperor 
Maximilian,* that when the big men complained because he 
used writers so much for embassies and work of the kind, 

4 “Every creature was subjected to vanity, but not willingly.” 

^Died 1519. 



[[p. 171]]


he said, '‘What shall I do ? They cannot be used, so I have 
to take writers’"; and again, ‘T can make knights, but I 
cannot make doctors.” So, too, I have heard of a fine noble- 
man, who said, “I will have my son study. It is no great 
art to hang two legs over a horse and become a knight ; he 
has already learned that from me.” That was well said. 
Once more, I do not want this to be understood as though I 
were speaking against the knightly class, or any other class, 
but only against the worthless swaggerers, who despise all 
learning and wisdom, and can boast of nothing except wear- 
ing armor and hanging two legs over a horse, though they 
seldom have to do it, and in return have enough of comfort, 
pleasure, joy, honor, and wealth the whole year round. It is 
true that, as they say, knowledge is light to carry and armor 
heavy; but wearing armor is soon learned, and wisdom is 
not soon learned, and is not easily practiced or used. 

To bring this talk to an end ! We ought to know that God 
is a wonderful lord. His trade is to take beggars and make 
them lords, just as He makes all things out of nothing. 
This trade of His no one will interfere with or hinder. He 
has the whole world sing of Him, in Psalm cxii, “Who is 
like the Lord, Who sitteth so high and beholdeth so deep? 
Who lifteth the small out of the dust and raiseth the poor 
out of the filth, that He may make them sit among the 
princes, even among the princes of His people."" Look 
about you, at the courts of all the kings and princes, at the 
cities and the parishes; see whether this Psalm does not 
rule with many strong examples. There you will find jurists, 
doctors, counsellors, writers, preachers, who were usually 
poor and have certainly been boys at school, and have 
mounted and flown up by their pens,^ until they are lords, as 
the Psalm says, and like princes, help to rule lands and 
peoples. It is not God’s will that bom kings, princes, lords, 
and nobles should rule and be lords alone ; He wills to have 
His beggars with them, so that they may not think that noble 
birth alone, and not God alone, makes lords and rulers. It 
is said, and it is true, that the pope too was a school boy. 


SchalaiB 
Not to 
l>eI)o- 
spiMd 


Ps. 113: 
5-8 


»Or “their feathers.* 



[[p. 172]]


Therefore do not despise the fellows who come to your 
door and say, Panem propter deum^ and sing for 
bread; you are listening, as this Psalm says, to the singing 
of great princes and lords. I too was such a P a r - 
tekenhengst/ and got bread at the house-doors, espe- 
cially at Eisenach, my dear town, although afterwards my 
dear father lovingly and faithfully kept me at the university 
at Erfurt, and by his sweat and labor helped me to what I 
have become. Nevertheless, I was a Parteken- 
h e n g s t and I have come so far by means of the writer^s 
pen, as this Psalm says, that I would not change with the 
emperor of the Turks, and have his wealth and do without 
my knowledge; nay, I would not take for it all the wealth 
in the world heaped up many times. And without any 
doubt, I should not have come to this, if I had not got into 
school and into the trade of writing. 

Therefore, have your son study, and do not hesitate about 
it, and even if he has to go after his bread meanwhile, you 
are giving our Lord God a fine bit of wood out of which He 
can carve you a lord. It must continue to be a fact that your 
son and my son,^ — ^that is, the sons of common folk, — ^must 
rule the world, both in the spiritual and the worldly ranks, 
as this Psalm testifies. For the rich misers cannot and will 
not do it ; they are the Carthusians® and monks of Mammon, 
and they must serve him day and night. The born princes 
and lords cannot do it alone, and especially they cannot under- 
stand anything at all about the spiritual office. Thus both 
kinds of government on earth must remain with the middle 
class common people, and with their children. 

And do not be disturbed because the common miser de- 
spises knowledge so deeply and says, 'Ha, if my son can 
read and write German and do sums, he can do enough, I 
am going to make a business man of him.” They will soon 
be so tame that they will dig ten ells deep into the earth with 


^ “Bread for God’s sake.” 

“Possibly “crumb-horse,” a school boy who sang, with others, in the streets 
for bread (particula panis). On Luther’s singing at Eisenach, see 
especially, Scheel, Martin Luther, I (1916), pp. 104 ff. 

• i.e., The strictest devotees. 



[[p. 173]]


their fingers to get a scholar. For the business man will not 
be a business man long, if preaching and law shall fail; this 
I know for sure. We theologians and jurists must continue, 
or all the rest will go to ruin with us; this will not fail. 
When the theologians disappear, God’s Word also disappears, 
and there remain nothing but heathen, nay, notliing but 
devils ; when the jurists disappear, then the law disappears, 
and peace with it, and there remains nothing but robbery, 
murder, crime, and violence, nay, nothing but wild beasts. 
But what earnings and profits the business man will have 
when peace is gone, I shall let his ledger tell him; and what 
good all his property will do him when preaching goes down, 
I shall let his conscience show him. 

It is particularly vexing that such rude and unchristian 
words are spoken by those who want to be so altogether 
evangelical. They know how to get the better of everyone 
and cry down everyone with Scripture, and yet they will 
not grant either God or their own children so much honor or 
wealth as to train them in the schools, so that they may come 
to glorious and divine positions, in which they can serve God 
and the world, even though it is plain and certain that these 
positions are established and ready, and well provided with 
wealth and honor. On the contrary, they turn their sons 
away from them and shove them into the service of Mammon, 
of which nothing is plain and certain, which must be full of 
danger to body and wealth and soul, and which cannot be, 
besides, a service of God. 

At this point I should also tell how many scholars are 
needed in medicine and other liberal arts, concerning which 
a great book could be written and about which one could 
preach for a half year. Where would the preachers and 
lawyers and physicians come from, if we had not grammar 
and the other sciences of speech? They must all flow from 
this spring. But the task would be too long and too great. 
I would be brief and say that a diligent and pious school- 
teacher, or master, or whoever it is that faithfully trains and 
teaches boys, can never be sufficiently rewarded, or repaid 
with any money, as even the heathen Aristotle says. Never- 


Other 
Kinds of 
Scholars 



[[p. 174]]


Wisdom 

38 : 1-8 


theless, this work is as shamefully despised among us as 
though it was nothing at all. I myself, if I could leave the 
preaching ofSce and other things, or had to do so, would not 
be so glad to have any other work as that of schoolmaster, 
or teacher of boys, for I know that this is the most useful, 
the greatest, and the best, next to the work of preaching. 
Indeed, I scarcely know which of the two is the better ; for 
it is hard to make old dogs obedient and old rascals pious ; 
and that is the work at which the preacher must labor, often 
in vain. But young trees can be better bent and trained, 
though some of them break in the process. Let it be one of 
the greatest virtues on earth faithfully to train other people's 
children ; very few people, almost none, in fact, do this for 
their own. 

That the physicians are lords, we can see with our own 
eyes, and that we cannot do without them, our own experi- 
ence teaches. But that they are a class that is useful to the 
world, a comforting and wholesome class, and that their 
work is a service acceptable to God and made and founded 
by Him, — all of this not only is proved by the nature of the 
work itself, but it is testified by the Scriptures,^ in Ecclesias- 
ticus xxxviii where almost a whole chapter is given up to 
praise of the physicians, It says, — “Thou shalt honor the 
physician, for one cannot do without him, and God has 
appointed him, for all healing is of God. The skill of the 
physician bringeth him to honor, and in the sight of great 
men he shall be held worthy. God hath created medicines 
out of the earth, and he is no reasonable man who despiseth 
them. For as in the time of Moses the bitter water was 
sweetened with wood, it was His will to make known to men 
thereby what medicine can do; and He hath also given to 
men this skill, that His wonders may be praised. For here- 
with can the physician soothe all kinds of pain, and make 
many sweet and good confections, and prepare salves whereby 
the sick become well ; and of these works of his there is no 
end, etc.” But I have said too much about this ; the preachers 

'Luther here quotes the Apocrypha as “Scripture.** He renders the whole 
passage very freely. 



[[p. 175]]

can draw all these things out more fully, and impress upon 
the people the profit and the loss that they can here produce, 
for the whole world, and for our descendants, better than I 
can write it. 

I will let everything rest here, for it has been my purpose 
faithfully to exhort and urge everyone who can help in this The 
cause. Only think for yourself how many good things God 
has given you gratis, and is daily giving, namely, body and 
soul, house and home, wife and child, the services and the 
use of all His creatures in heaven and earth; beside all this, 
the Gospel and the office of preaching, baptism, the Sacra- 
ment, and the whole treasure of His Son and His Spirit, not 
only without your merit, but also without cost or trouble 
to you, for you do not now have to support either schools 
or parishes,"^ as you would be bound to do according to the 
Gospel. And you are such an accursed, ungrateful wretch 
that you will not give a son to be trained to preserve these 
gifts of God. You have everything, gratis; and you show 
not a particle of gratitude, but you let God’s kingdom and 
men’s souls’ salvation go to ruin and help cast it down to 
the ground. 

Ought not God to be angry over this ? Ought not famine 
come? Ought not pestilence, the sweating-sickness, and the 
French disease find us? Ought not blind folk, wild, raving 
tyrants, rule ? Ought not war and contention arise ? Ought 
not government in Germany become bad? Ought not Turk 
and Tartar plunder us? Nay, it would be no wonder if 
God opened the doors and windows of hell and snowed and 
hailed devils among us, or let brimstone and hell-fire rain 
from heaven and sink us, all together, into the abyss of hell, 
like Sodom and Gomorrah. For if Sodom and Gomorrah 
had had or seen or heard as much as we, they would be 
standing today. They were not one tenth as wicked as 
Germany is, for they had not God’s Word and the preaching 
office, while we have both gratis, and act like men who want 
God and His Word, and all moral control and honor to go 
to ruin ; indeed, the fanatics have actually begun to suppress 

^ i. c. Because they are supported by endowments- 

Vol. IV.-12 



[[p. 176]]


the Word of God. The nobles and the rich men, too, have 
attacked it to overthrow good morals and honor, so that we 
may become the kind of people that we have deserved to be. 

For what else are the Gospel and the preaching office that 
we have than the blood and sweat of our Lord? He won 
them by His anguished, bloody sweat, earned them by His 
blood and Cross, and gave them to us. We have them with- 
out any cost to ourselves, and have done nothing for them, 
nor given anything. Ah, God! How bitter it was for Him, 
and yet how kindly and gladly He did it 1 How greatly the 
dear Apostles and all the saints suffered in order that these 
things might come to us ! How many have been put to 
death for them in our own time! To speak of myself, too, 
how many times I have had to suffer death for them, so that 
I might serve my Germans with them! But all this is 
nothing, compared with what Christ, God's Son and our dear 
heart, has spent on them. And yet, by all this suffering, He 
will have earned from us only this, — some persecute this 
office, and condemn, and slander it, and wish it to the devil ; 
while others keep hands off, support neither pastors nor 
preachers, and give nothing toward their maintenance. Be- 
sides this, they turn the children away from this office, so 
that it will soon go to destruction, and Christ’s blood and 
agony be in vain; and yet, they go their ways undisturbed, 
have no qualms of conscience, no repentance, and no sorrow 
for this hellish and more than hellish ingratitude, this un- 
speakable sin and blasphemy. They show neither fear nor 
awe of God's wrath, neither desire nor love for the dear 
Saviour in return for His bitter and hard pains. Neverthe- 
less, with these terrible abominations they want to be Evan- 
gelicals and Christians ! 

If this is the way that things are to go in Germany, I am 
sorry that I was born a German, or ever wrote or spoke 
German; and if I could do it with a good conscience, I 
would give my aid and counsel to have the pope come back 
over us, and oppress and shame and ruin us worse than ever 
he did before. Formerly, when people served the devil and 
put the blood of Christ to shame, all the purses were wide 



[[p. 177]]


open, and there was no limit to men’s giving to churches, 
schools, and all sorts of abominations. Children could be 
driven, pushed, and forced into monasteries, churches, foun- 
dations, and schools, at unspeakable cost, and all of it was 
lost. But now, when they are to found real schools and real 
churches, — nay, not found them, but keep them in repair, 
for God has founded them and given enough even for their 
maintenance, and we know what God’s Word is and that to 
honor Christ’s blood is to found a real church, now, I say, 
all the purses are closed with iron chains, and nobody can 
give anything. And besides, they tear their children away, 
and do not allow them to be supported by the churches (to 
which we give nothing) and to enter these wholesome offices, 
in which, without their effort they are cared for even in tem- 
poral things, in order to serve God and honor and preserve 
Christ’s blood and pains; but they push them, rather, into 
the jaws of Mammon, meanwhile treading Christ’s blood 
under foot; and yet they are good Christians! 

I pray that God -will graciously let me die^ and take me 
hence, that I may not see the misery that must come over 
Germany. For I believe that if ten Moseses stood and 
prayed for us, they would accomplish nothing. I feel, too, 
when I would pray for my dear Germany, that my prayer 
rebounds, and does not press up to heaven, as it does when 
I pray for other things. For it shall be that God will save 
Lot and sink Sodom. God grant that I am compelled to lie, 
and be, in this matter, a false prophet! That would happen, 
if we reformed, and honored our Lord’s Word and His 
precious blood and death otherwise than we have done here- 
tofore, and helped and trained our young people for God’s 
offices, as has been said. 

But I hold that it is the duty of the government to compel 
its subjects to keep their children in school, especially those ComwU 
children who were mentioned above. For it is truly its duty 
to maintain the offices and classes that have been mentioned, tioo 
so that preachers, jurists, pastors, writers, physicians, school- 
masters, and the like may continue, for we cannot do without 

*Ich bitte Gott umb ein gnedigs stundlin. 



[[p. 178]]


them. If it can compel its subjects who are fitted for the 
work to carry pike and musket, man the walls, and do other 
kinds of work, when war is necessary ; how much more can 
it and ought it compel its subjects to keep their children in 
school, because here there is a worse war on, a war with the 
very devil, who goes about to suck out secretly the strength 
of cities and princedoms, and empty them of able persons, 
until he has bored out the pith, and left an empty shell of 
useless folk, with whom he can play and juggle as he will. 
That is, indeed, starving out a city or a land; it destroys 
itself without battle, before one is aware of it. The Turk 
acts differently. He takes every third child in his whole 
empire and trains it for what he will. How much more 
ought our lords take some boys for schooling, since that 
does not take the child away from its parents, but is for 
their own good too ; and it trains him for usefulness to the 
community, and for an office in which enough is given him. 

Therefore let everyone be on his guard who can. Let the 
government, when it sees a promising boy, have him kept in 
school; if the father is poor, let it help him with church 
property. Let the rich make their wills with this work in 
view, as some have done who have endowed stipends ; that is 
the right way to bequeath your money to the Church. This 
way you do not, to be sure, release departed souls from 
purgatory, but by maintaining God's offices, you help the 
living and those to come who are not yet born, so that they 
do not get into purgatory, nay, so that they are released from 
hell and go to heaven ; and you help the living to peace and 
comfort. That would be a praiseworthy Christian testament, 
and God would have delight and pleasure in it, and would 
bless and honor you in return, by giving you pleasure and 
joy in Him, 

Well, then, dear Germans, I have said enough to you. 
You have heard your prophet. God grant that we may obey 
His Word, to praise and thank our dear Lord for His 
precious blood, so freely offered for us; and may He keep 
us from the abominable wickedness of ingratitude and forget- 
fulness of His blessings. Amen. 

