fcibrarjp  of  t:he  Cheolocjical  ^tminary 

PRINCETON  •  NEW  JERSEY 


■a^D- 


ANMLS  or  THE  DISRUPTION. 


^ 


M^'?^x.^ry(^- 


z/^^-^/ 


Yly^yi2^Q^ 


•kA 


/ 


ANNALS 


OP 


THE     DISRUPTION; 

WITH 

EXTEACTS  FROM  THE  NARRATIVES 

OF 

MINISTERS   WHO  LEFT  THE  SCOTTISH  ESTABLISHMENT 

IN 

1843. 


BY    THE 

REV.  THOMAS   BROWN,  D.D.,  F.R.S.E. 

EDINBURGH. 


NEI^V  EDITION. 


MAGNIVEN  &  WALLACE,  138  PRINCES  STREET. 

18  9  2. 


P  E  E  F  A  C  E. 


The  object  of  these  Annals  is  to  recall  the  circumstances  of 
the  Disrui^tion  as  described  by  the  men  who  took  part  in  the 
struggle.  The  general  and  more  public  aspects  of  the  event 
have  been  admirably  brought  out  by  Dr.  Buchanan  in  the 
"  History  of  the  Ten  Years'  Conflict,"  and  by  Dr.  Hanna  in  his 
"Memoirs  of  Dr.  Chalmers."  But  there  are  other  important 
objects  which  may  be  served  by  giving  more  in  detail  the 
experience  of  individual  ministers  in  their  separate  parishes. 
Fortunately  we  have  from  various  parts  of  the  country  narra- 
tives written  immediately  after  the  event,  and  portions  of  these 
may  now  be  made  available  to  tell  in  their  own  words  what  it 
was  that  led  the  men  of  the  Disruption  to  separate  from  the 
State,  and  what  dijBBculties  were  encountered  by  the  Church  in 
taking  up  her  new  position. 

The  proposal  that  such  narratives  should  be  prepared  seems 
to  have  originated  with  Mr.  Craig  of  Rothesay,  who  went  to 
Edinburgh  in  the  spring  of  1845  to  bring  the  subject  before  the 
leading  men  of  the  Free  Church.  During  the  following  autumn 
it  was  taken  up  by  the  General  Assembly  which  met  at  Inverness, 
and  a  Committee  was  appointed,  with  Dr.  Lorimer  of  Glasgow, 
as  convener,  charged  with  the  duty  of  carrying  out  the  proposal. 
In  answer  to  their  earnest  appeals  thirty-seven  narratives  were 
sent  in  describing  the  experience  of  diflferent  ministers — those 
which  in  the  following  pages  are  referred  to  as  "  Disr.  Mss. 
i.-xxxvii."    It  was  soon  found,  however,  that  there  were  practical 


iv  PREFACE. 

difficulties  in  the  way,  little  further  progress  was  made,  and 
after  a  time  the  subject  fell  into  abeyance.  ^ 

In  1864  it  was  resumed  and  zeaiously  prosecuted  in  a  differ- 
ent form  by  Dr.  Parker  of  Lesmahagow,  then  of  Glasgow.  The 
papers  collected"  or  prepared  by  him  will  be  quoted  as  the 
"  Parker  Mss.,"  under  the  names  of  the  different  ministers  and 
Presbyteries  from  whom  he  obtained  returns. 

At  various  times  the  General  Assembly  expressed  a  desire 
that  some  portions  of  these  Disruption  narratives  should  be 
published,  but  delay  was  caused  by  the  lamented  death  of  Dr. 
Parker  and  by  other  circumstances  which  the  Committee  had 
great  reason  to  regret.  One  convener  was  laid  aside  by  ill  health, 
and  another  was  called  to  the  colonial  field. 

At  last,  in  1876 — three  years  after  the  present  convener  was 
appointed — it  was  felt  that  a  beginning  must  be  made,  and  the 
first  part  of  these  Annals  was  published.  The  result  was,  that 
additional  narratives  began  to  come  in,  and  the  work  has  been 
carried  out  in  the  form  in  which  it  is  now  submitted  to  the 
Church. 

It  would  have  been  greatly  to  the  advantage  of  the  Convener 
if  the  whole  materials  had  been  before  him  from  the  first.  All 
that  could  be  done  was  to  turn  the  new  contributions  to  the  best 
account  that  the  case  admitted  of  as  the  publication  went  on. 

In  preparing  this  work,  one  great  difficulty  has  been  to  avoid 
the  sameness  of  so  many  narratives  detailing  similar  occurrences 
in  different  localities.  This  has  made  it  necessary  to  omit 
much  which  would  otherwise  have  been  well  deserving  of 
notice ;  but  if  there  be  any  of  the  outgoing  ministers  who  may 
feel  that  the  part  which  they  took  in  the  sacrifices  of  1843 
has  been  overlooked,  the  Convener  can  at  least  say  that  in  no 
case  has  this  been  done  more  completely  than  in  his  own. 

The  plan  has  more  than  once  been  changed  as  the  work  went 
on  under  different  conveners.  At  one  time  it  was  intended  to  have 
been  a  list  of  the  ministers,  all  the  facts  of  the  Disruption  being 
grouped  round  their  personal  history.     At  another  time  it  was 


PEEFACE.  ▼ 

to  have  been  a  series  of  district  histories,  all  the  incidents  being 
told  in  connection  with  the  locality  in  which  they  occurred. 
For  this  latter  plan  there  were  not  sufficient  materials — many 
districts  of  Scotland  would  have  appeared  blank,  no  returns 
having  been  sent  in.  But  the  great  objection  to  both  methods 
was  the  sameness  which  would  have  been  almost  unavoidable. 

The  plan  adopted,  therefore,  was  to  take  a  series  of  different 
subjects,  each  presenting  a  separate  phase  of  the  experience 
through  which  our  Church  passed  in  Disruption  times,  and  to 
group  together  such  facts  and  incidents  as  might  cast  light  on 
that  portion  of  the  history. 

The  extracts — of  which  to  a  large  extent  the  work  consists — 
are  given  simply  in  the  words  of  the  authors.  In  some  cases 
where  the  narrative  was  prolix,  it  has  been  to  some  extent 
condensed,  and  in  a  few  instances  the  privilege  of  an  Editor  has 
been  exercised  in  correcting  minor  defects  of  style,  &c.,  such  as 
an  author  would  himself  put  right  in  going  to  press.  This  has 
been  sparingly  done,  and  in  all  cases  with  scrupulous  care,  to 
preserve  the  meaning  of  the  writer. 

A  brief  narrative  is  given  for  the  purpose  of  connecting  the 
different  statements,  and  reminding  the  reader  of  how  the  great 
change  was  brought  about.  It  will  serve,  at  least,  to  show  in 
what  light  the  passing  ecclesiastical  events  of  the  day  were 
viewed  in  a  country  manse  by  one  who  entered  on  the  duties 
of  his  parish  in  the  midst  of  the  Ten  Years'  Conflict.  At  all 
the  great  turning-points  of  the  struggle  it  seemed — and  the 
subsequent  experience  of  forty  years  has  only  deepened  the 
conviction — that  the  Church  did  what  she  simply  could  not 
help  doing,  if  she  were  to  remain  faithful  to  Christ  her  Head, 
and  to  the  people  under  her  care. 

The  Convener  desires  to  express  his  obligations  to  many 
friends  who  have  greatly  aided  him  in  his  work.  His 
thanks  are  specially  due  to  two  members  of  the  Committee 
— Mr.  William  Dickson  and  Mr.  David  Dickson — and  to  his 
friend  and  relative,  the   late   Dr.    Alexander   Wood,   for   the 


Vi  PREFACE. 

interest  which  they  have  taken,  and  the  advice  and  assistance 
they  have  given.  ^ 

It  is  with  no  desire  to  provoke  controversy  that  these  Annals 
have  been  prepared,  but  rather  in  the  full  belief  that,  if  the  facts 
as  they  actually  "took  place  were  better  known,  the  hostility  of 
adversaries  would  be-  to  a  great  extent  disarmed,  and  the  attach- 
ment of  friends  confirmed  and  strengthened.  It  is  true  that 
when  men  are  describing  sacrifices  and  sufferings — their  own 
or  others' — there  is  a  difficulty  in  avoiding  a  certain  amount 
of  feeling.  It  is  not  every  one  who  can  dismiss  such  matters 
as  one  of  the  sufferers  does  in  speaking  of  trials  overcome : 
"  The  facts  which  might  be  mentioned  are  of  so  very  delicate 
a  character  that  they  cannot  be  stated,  and  must  be  left  to  the 
disclosures  of  that  day  when  the  secret?  of  all  hearts  shall  be 
revealed."  If,  however,  we  are  to  have  a  truthful  view  of  Dis- 
ruption times,  such  circumstances  cannot  be  wholly  suppressed  ; 
and,  surely,  they  may  now  be  spoken  of  aU  the  more  calmly 
and  frankly  when  the  keen  feelings  of  former  days  have  to  so 
great  an  extent  passed  away. 

When  the  subject  was  first  entered  on  in  1845,  the  desire  of  the 
Church  was  to  record  "  the  wonderful  goodness  of  God  at  a  most 
trying  season,"  and  to  illustrate  "  the  reality,  nearness,  and  con- 
descension of  His  providence,"  "  as  subservient  to  the  purposes 
of  His  grace,  and  the  interests  of  His  kingdom."  It  is  hoped  that 
these  Annals,  imperfect  as  they  are,  may  be  found  to  contribute 
to  this  great  end,  and  may  serve  in  some  measure  to  show  to 
the  "generations  to  come  the  praises  of  the  Lord,  and  His 
strength  and  His  wonderful  works  which  He  hath  done." 
Amidst  all  the  elements  of  human  imperfection  which  mingled 
in  the  great  movement  of  1843,  it  is  impossible  not  to  recognise 
the  signal  tokens  of  God's  goodness  to  His  servants  in  a  day  of 
trial,  interposing  to  uphold  and  guide  them  for  His  own  glory 
in  the  path  of  duty.  And  now  that  it  has  been  given  to  the 
Free  Clmrch  to  gather  into  her  communion  so  much  of  what 
constitutes  the  strength  of  Scotland — the  intelligence,  the  faith, 


PREFACE,  VU 

and  energy  of  her  people — the  younger  generation,  who  have 
risen  into  the  place  of  their  Disruption  Fathers,  may  well  take 
encouragement  to  hold  fast  the  noble  heritage  of  Christian 
truth  and  sacred  principle  for  which  their  Church  has  once 
more,  as  in  the  days  of  old,  been  honoured  to  contend. 

The  subjoined  minute  states  the  authority  under  which  this 
publication  appears. 

THOMAS  BROWN, 
Convener  of  Committee. 
16  Carlton  Street,  Edinburgh, 
March,  1884. 


Extract  Minute  of  the  Committee  op  the  General 
Assembly  of  the  Free  Church  on  the  Records 
OF  Disruption  Ministers,  17th  May,  1876. 

The  Committee  agreed  to  authorise  the  publication  of  the 
*'  Annals  of  the  Disruption,"  prepared  by  the  Convener,  and 
cordially  to  recommend  the  same  to  the  members  of  the  Church. 
In  doing  so,  they  think  it  right  to  state  that,  all  the  materials 
in  their  possession  having  been  placed  at  the  disposal  of  the 
Convener,  he  holds  himself  alone  responsible  for  the  selection 
and  arrangement  of  the  various  extracts,  as  well  as  for  the 
narrative  that  is  given  and  the  expressions  of  opinion  which 
that  narrative  contains. 


«• 


CONTENTS. 


lp)art  I. 

THE  DISRUPTION- HOW  IT  ^WAS  BROUGHT  ABOUT— 
THE  IMMEDIATE  RESULTS. 

■KOTIOX 

I.  Free  Church  Principles  an  Inheritance. 

The  Disruption  and  its  Results — Descendants  of  Persecuted  Fore- 
fathers— Personal  Hardships — Choosing  a  Watchword — Testimony 
of  Mr.  M'Cheyne, pp.  1-6 

n.  Keligious  Revival  a  Preparation. 

Evangelical  Eeligion  revived — Spiritual  Life  in  Scotch  Manses — And 
among  the  People  —  Strathb«gie  —  Lawers  and  Lochtayside — 
Mr.  Milne  of  Perth— The  Cause  of  Christ  at  Stake— Mr. 
M'Cheyne's  Labours — Rev.  George  Davidson — Mr.  Mackenzie, 
of  Farr — Dr.  A.  Bonar — Public  Attention  roused — Mr.  Thomson 
ofMuckhart, 7-19 

III.  Non-Intrusion  Conflict. 

Leading  Events— "Resolution"  of  the  Church  in  1834 — Auchterarder 
Vacancy — Case  of  Mamoch,  Strathbogie— Moderate  Party  in  the 
Presbytery — Decision  of  the  Assembly's  Commission  in  1839 — 
Solemn  Protest  of  the  Strathbogie  People— Touching  and  Impres- 
sive Scene — The  Principle  of  Non-Intrusion,  .         .        .         20-26 

IV.  Struggle  for  Spiritual  Independence. 

Church  Establishment  Principle — True  Cause  of  the  Disruption — 
Decision  of  the  Judges — Spiritual  Independence  of  the  Church 
proclaimed  —  Sacredness  of  this  Principle  in  Scotland  — "  The 
Church  the  Creature  of  the  State" — Memorable  Debate  —  Dr. 
Chalmers's  "Resolution"  triumphantly  passed — Collision  Inevitable 
— Summons  issued  against  the  Presbytery  of  Dunkeld — That 
Presbytery  rebuked  and  threatened — "  Interdict  "  in  Strathbogie — 
Effect  on  the  whole  District — Extends  Southward — Dr.  Duncan 


CONTENTS. 


of  Ruth  well— Narrative  by  Mr.  Wood,  of  Elie — Strange  Time  in 
.  Scotland — Parish  of  Stewarton  assailed — Attempts  at  Concitiation 
— Danger  of  a  Compromise^^The  "  Claim  of  Right "  prepared — 
Disregarded  at  first — Final  decision  of  the  Auchterardar  Case — 
Course  taken  by  the  Moderate  Party  —  Signs  of  a  Fatal 
Crisis 26-48 

V.  Tf.e  Convocation. 

Welcome  "Suggestion  thrown  out — Important  Meeting  of  1842— 
Determination  to  stand  firm — Convocation  Resolutions  passed — 
Scheme  -for  a  Sustentation  Fund — Formal  and  Solemn  Address 
to  Government  —  Parting  Scene  —  Impressions — "  The  Rubicon 
crossed," 49-57 

VL  Appeal  to  the  Country. 

Ministers  pledged  to  Resign  —  Disheartening  Prospects  —  General 
Hostility  from  Newspapers — Excitement  throughout  Parishes — 
Dr.  M'Donald  welcomed  at  Dornoch — Sir  James  Graham's  Letter 
— Open-air  Night-meetings — Mr.  Wood  of  Elie  in  Dumfriesshire — 
Meeting  at  Fintry — People  ordered  Home  by  a  Factor  —  'Sir. 
M'Cheyne's  Visit  there, 58-74 

VII.  Close  op  the  Struggle. 

Appeal  rejected  by  Parliament — Evangelical  Ministers  unanimous — 
Individual  Testimonies — Mr.  M'Cheyne's  Remark  on  the  Parlia- 
mentary Debate — Popular  Sympathy  manifested — The  "  Moderate  " 
Party  precipitate  Events — Stewarton  Case — Quood /Sacra  Members 
ejected  from  Church  Courts — Parting  Scenes,  .         ,         75-80 

vnL  Making  Ready. 

Plans  Matured — Second  "  Watchword  " — Local  Associations  formed 
— The  Day  approaches — Linlithgow  Presbytery  the  first  to  flinch 
—  Dr.  M'Farlane's  Manifesto  —  Dr.  Gumming,  of  London, 
prognosticates  unfavourably — Other  Estimates — Conference  of  the 
Evangelical  Party — Tanfield  Hall  prepared,    .         .        .         81-87 

IX.  The  Disruption. 

Its  Decisive  Day  arrives — Opening  Scene  at  Holyrood — Ominous 
Occurrence  there — Dr.  Welsh's  Sermon  before  the  Lord  Com- 
missioner —  General  Assembly  in  St.  Andrew's  Church  —  The 
"Solemn  Protest" — Subsequent  Departure  thence  of  the  Evan- 
gelical Majority — Enforced  Line  of  Procession — The  Moderate 
Party  peri)lexed  —  Personal  Reminiscences  of  the  Day  —  Lord 
Jeffrey — In  Tanfield  Hall — Singular  Incident — First  Sederunt  of 
the  Free  Assembly — Tidings  awaited  throughout  Scotland,     88-96 


CONTENTS.  XI 

SECTION 

X,  The  Free  Assembly. 

Deed  of  Demission — Number  of  Names  aflSxed  to  it — Unbroken 
Ranks — The  Cause  of  Missions  made  prominent — Adherence  of 
Missionaries  counted  on — The  National  Impression,  .       97-99 

XI.  Faeewell  Seevicb  in  the  Parish  Church. 

Country  Ministers — No  Farewell  Sermons — Simple  References  to 
the  Event — Brief  Leave-taking — Assemblage  ^.t  Woodside,  Aber- 
deen— Rev.  Dr.  Grierson's  Experience — Dr.  Ross  of  Lochbroom  — 
Pulpit  Statements  in  general,  .....     100-107 

XII.  First  Service  in  the  Free  Chdroh  Congregation. 

Scenes  which  took  place — Roslin — Stevenston — Dr.  Chalmers  at 
Morningside  —  Innerwick — Monkton  —  Moy  —  Ruthwell — Ayr — 
Kilsyth  —  Aberdeen  —  Greenock  —  Errol — Kintore —  Rothesay  — 
Interposition  of  Providence  at  Rosehall,  .         .         .     108-121 

XIII.  The  Preaching  of  Churches  Vacant. 

Empty  Parish  Churches  —  Langton  —  Bolton — Island  of  Lewis — 
Shieldaig  —  Poolewe  —  Killearnan  —  Skirling  — ■  Watten  —  Hugh 
Miller  at  Resolis— The  "  Peace  "  of  the  "  Moderates,"    .     122-126 

XIV.  The  Licensed  Preachers. 

Numerous  Adherence  of  Probationers  and  Students — Rise  of  this 
Movement — Convocation  of  Probationers — Encouraging  to  the 
Free  Church — Personal  Sacrifices  thus  made — Enlarged  Field  for 
their  Employment, 127-131 

XV.  Leaving  the  Manse. 

Few  Details  left  regarding  this — Some  Special  Cases — Durness — 
Latheron  —  Errol  —  Bolton  —  Eastwood  —  Lochbroom  —  Painful 
"  Flittings  " — Ministers'  Wives  under  Trial — Letter  from  a  True 
Helpmate — Various  Instances  of  the  Husband's  Courage  being 
thus  cheered, 132-143 

2 VI.  The  Ministers'  Reasons  for  Going  Oct. 

Rev.  Mr.  Stewart  of  Aberdeen — Dr.  Bonar  of  Larbert — Other  such 
Testimonies — A  Mental  Struggle  undergone  by  many — Christ's 
Headship  the  Main  Ground — Individual  Addresses  to  Parishioners 
—Rev.  Dr.  M'Cosh's  Pamphlet— Mr.  Taylor  of  Flisk— Mr.  Wood 
of  Elie — Mr.  Gregory  of  Anstruther — Letter  from  an  Aged 
Minister — Mr.  Anderson  of  Kippen,  his  remarkable  "  One  Reason 
for  going  out," 144-157 

XVII.  Reasons  for  Going  Oct  given  by  the  People. 

Extensive  Support  by  the  Laity — Dislike  of  "  Moderatism  " — Spread 
of  Serious  Religion  in  the  Church — Earnestness  generally  found  on 


xn  CONTENTS. 


the  Evangelical  Side — Prompt  Intelligence  among  the  Humbler 
Ranks — Ecclesiastical  Independence  well  understood — Casog  of 
Perplexity — Rural  Incidents  injllustration — Working-men's  Logic 
— Johnstone,  Renfrewshire — A  Fife  Woman's  Subscription  to  the 
Free  Church— Dundee  "Betty" — Dr.  Chalmers  on  the  People's 
Liberality 158-172 

XVni.'  A   CONFIRMATIOJJ. 

The  Establishment's  General  Assembly  Puzzled — No  Answer  to  the 
"  Protest  " — Settled  Erastianism — Quoad  Sacra  Ministers  left  out 
• — These  and  other  Circumstances  tend  to  show  the  Soundness  of 
Disruption  Procedure,      .......     173-175 

XIX.  The  Dwellings  to  which  Ministers  Retired. 

Want  of  House  Accommodation — Trials  cheerfully  borne — Instances 
of  Hardships — Manse  Sites  refused — Conspicuous  Case  at  Farr — 
The  Two  Mackenzies  of  Tongue — Mr.  Baird,  of  Cockburnspath — 
Mr.  M'Vean,  of  lona — Berriedale — Ruthwell  Manse — Painful 
Circumstances  at  Lairg, 176-189 

XX.  The  Advancement  of  Religion. 

New  Responsibility  felt  —  Impression  among  the  People — Fresh 
Impulse — Prayerful  Spirit  deepened — More  Earnest  Preaching — 
The  Establishment  and  the  Free  Church  contrasted— Pastoral 
Work  Advanced — Various  Instances — "  Revivals  " — Luss — Ayr — 
Flisk — "  Awakening  "  in  Skye — Wide  Increase  of  Evangelism — 
Disruption  Sacrifices  not  in  vain — Future  Good  betokened, 

19C-206 


part  M. 

THE  REBUILDING— THE  SACRIFICES. 

XXI.  The  Situation  in  June,  1848. 

First  Difficulties  of  the  Free  Church — Magnitude  of  Undertaking- 
Serious  Opposition — Prospective  View,  ....     207-209 

xiii.  Temporary  Places  of  Worship. 

Old  Chapels,  &c.,  obtained— Meeting-houses  lent  by  Dissenters- - 
Barns  .used — Other  Curious  Expedients — Communion  at  Helms- 
dale—Temporary  Erections— Open-air  Worship— Site-refusing — 
Illustrative  Notices  —  Highland  Tent-preaching  —  Consequent 
Hardships— Wide  Sowing  of  the  Gospel  Seed,         .         .     210-245 


CONTENTS.  xili 

SECTION 

XXIII.  Church  Building. 

General  Plan  for  New  Churches — The  Building  Committee— Contri- 
butions to  the  Fund— Difficulty  as  to  Sites— Lord  Aberdeen's 
Kindness— Establishment  Opposition — Case  of  Methlic — Refusals 
of  Building  -  materials — Janet  Fraser's  Gift  of  a  Site — Mrs. 
Gardyne's  Case — Aristocratic  Hostility — Liberal  Friends — Hearti- 
ness of  the  People — Favourable  Circumstances — The  Committee's 
Reports,  1843-46  —  Retrospective  Interest  of.  the  Transition 
Period, 246-290 

XXIV.  The  Sustentation  Fund, 

Originality  of  this  Scheme — By  whom  first  conceived — Its  Main 
Principles — How  organised — Dr.  Chalmers's  Account  of  its  Success 
— Self-denial  among  Ministers — Slow  Increase  of  the  "Equal 
Dividend" — "Power  of  Littles" — Dr.  R.  Buchanan's  Manage- 
ment— Instances  of  Liberality — General  Results — Indirect  Benefits 
— Its  apparent  Stability, .......     291-308 

XXV.  The  Schools. 

Elementary  Schools  set  up — Dr.  Chalmers's  Statement  at  Tanfield — 
Privations  of  Outed  Teachers — Tribute  of  Admiration  paid  to  them 

— School-building   Proposal — Mr.  Macdonald's  Laborious  Tour 

Amusing  Incident  —  His  visit  to  London — Statement  in  the 
Assembly,  1844 — The  Moderator's  Thanks  to  Mr.  Macdonald — 
The  Church  in  earnest  for  Education — Note,  .         .         .     309-326 

XX vL  The  New  College. 

Divinity  Hall  proposed — Memorable  Appeal  by  Dr.  Candlish — A 
Free  Church  College  opened  in  Edinburgh — Mr.  Macdonald's 
Offer— He  raises  £10,000— His  Bold  Suggestion— Dr.  Candlish's 
Humorous  Comment — New  College  erected — Its  Gratifying  Success 
— Two  Sister  Colleges  established, 327-337 

xxvii.  Manses. 

The  Manse-building  Scheme — Its  Importance — Migratory  Residence 
of  Ministers — Privations  endured — Rev.  E.  Findlater — Rev.  A. 
W.  Milroy — Rev.  Mr.  Garioch — Dr.  Guthrie  requested  to  under- 
take the  Scheme — He  accepts  his  Commission — Hearty  Response 
of  the  People — One  Painful  Ciixumstance,       ,         .         .     338-352 

xxviii.  Trials  of  the  People. 

Bitter  Feeling  on  the  part  of  Adversaries — Cases  of  Intimidation — 
Treatment  of  Paupers  —  Penalty  for  Conscientious  Worship — 
Family  Divisions  —  Wish  to  exclude  Free  Church  Members 
from  Burial  in  Parish  Churchyards — A  "Reign  of  Terror"  set 
up, 353-371 


XIV  CONTENTS. 

SECTION 

XXIX.  Hard  Work. 

The  Toil  required  of  Ministers — Unequal  Distributiofl — Gospel 
Preaching  welcomed — Odd  Circumstances  occur — Cases  of  Health 
impaired  and  Life  endangered — Martyr  Spirit  needed,    .     372-382 

XXX.  Trials  of  Ministers. 

Anxieties-  in  Manses — Examples — Pressure  of  Private  Appeals — 
Generous  and  Chivalrous  Spirit — Indignities  endured — Suffering 
undergone  in  Country  Charges — Solemn  and  Touching  Scenes — 
Dying  Testimonies, 383-408 


Ipart  lEi. 

DIFFICULTIES   OF   THE   POSITION— PROGRESS. 

XXXI.  Refusal  of  Sites. 

Difficulties  at  First  —  Private  Appeals  unavailing  —  House  of 
Commons  Committee — Case  of  Eallater — Duthil,  Strathspey — 
Kilmuir,  Skye — Paible,  North  Uist — Donald  Matheson — E,ev. 
Norman  M'Leod — Eig — Coll — Torosay — Mull — Strontian,  Float- 
ing Church  —  Landlords'  Reasons  —  Canonbie  —  Wanlockhead — 
Suffering  and  Death — Disturbances  at  Resolis,        .         .     409-449 

xxxii.  Friends. 

Kilsyth  Weavers — Farm  Overseers — Mr.  Morton — Mr.  Gumming, 
Factor,  Braemar — Mr.  Inglis,  Farmer,  Lochlee — Mr.  Walker, 
Kilcalmonell — Mr.  Lockhart,  of  Laggan,  Ballantrae — Messrs.  Ross, 
Bryden,  Cathcart,  Ochiltree — Mr.  Stewart,  Braco — Miss  Donald — 
Marchioness  of  Breadalbane,  and  Lady  Hannah  Tharp — Countess 
of  Effingham,  Unst — Edinburgh  Laymen — Glasgow  Laymen — 
Heritors — Cluny  Macpherson — George  Lyon  of  Glenogil — Mr. 
Rigg  of  Tarvit — Marquis  of  Breadalbane,         .         .         .     450-467 

xxxiii.  Prejudices  Removed. 

Lord  Aberdeen  and  Sir  J.  Graham — Mr.  Sym  of  Edinburgh,  and 
Mr.  Craig  of  Sprouston — Collesaie,  Mr.  Macfarlane's  Letter — St. 
Cyrus — Callander,  Mr.  MT^aren — Kilwinning — Torosay — Heritors 
at  Latheron — Portpatrick,  General  Hunter  Blair,  .     468-483 

XXXIV.  Quoad  Sacra  Churches. 

Difficulties,  Lord  Cockburn — Dr.  Chalmers  and  Church  Exten- 
aiou — Equitable   Adjustment   refused   after   Disruption — Cases, 


CONTENTS.  XV 


Saltcoats  —  Sheuchan  —  Trinity,  Aberdeen  —  Lybster  —  Blair- 
ingone — Ardoch — Saturday-night  Surprises — Attempts  to  seize 
the  Church  and  Refuse  the  Debt— Lord  Ivory's  Decision- 
Churches  saved— Cases  of  Hardship— Dr.  Beith  and  the  New 
Church  at  Stirling— Ladyloan,  Arbroath— Lady  Glenorchy's, 
Edinburgh 484-500 

XXXV.  The  Missionaries. 

Strong  Inducements  to  prefer  the  Establishment— The  Whole  Stafi 
Unanimous— Dr.  Duff's  Reasons— The  Missionaries  are  expelled 
from  the  Premises  at  Calcutta  and  Bombay— Dr.  Smyttan— 
Generous  Aid— New  Premises,  Increased  Success— The  Aberdeen 
Ladies  and  the  Scientific  Apparatus— Nagpore— South  Africa  — 
Conversions  at  Calcutta — Funds, 501-513 

xxsvi.  Pledges  Unfulfilled. 

The  Trial  it  was  to  go  out — Cases  of  those  who  drew  back — Unhappy 
Effect  on  the  People, 514-522 

xxxviL  Disruption  in  England. 

The  London  Presbytery  broken  up — Dr.  Candlish  at  Cambridge — 
Movement  by  the  Rev.  J.  Hunter  of  Bath— Dr.  N.  Paterson  and 
Mr.  Buchan  of  Hamilton — Manchester,  .         .         .     523-528 

xxxviii.  London  Reminiscences,  by  Eev.  J.  C.  Burns,  Kirkliston. 

London  Presbytery,  Contest  for  Minute-Book — Churches  kept- 
Exeter  Hall — Back  Parlour  in  Berners  Street — James  Nisbet — 
Mr.  Bunting's  Narrative — Baptist  Noel — Wesleyans  the  Chief 
Supporters — Dr.  Bunting — Independents,  Baptists — Manchester — 
Southampton — Oxford,  the  Vice-Chancellor  interviewed — Cam- 
bridge— Birmingham — Rev.  J.  A.  James— Money  raised,  529-543 

xxxix.  Ireland  and  America. 

Irish  Deputation  at  Tanfield — Assembly  at  Belfast — Warm  Support 
through  the  Country — Dr.  Cunningham  and  Mr.  Ferguson  in 
America — Mr.  Ferguson — Dr.  Cunningham — Dr.  Hodge — Prince- 
ton Review — Moses  Stuart — Kirwan — The  Free  Church  invited,  . 

544-550 
XL.  The  Continent. 

Interest  taken  in  our  Church's  Struggles — Mr.  Frederick  Monod — 
Dr.  Merle  D'Aubigne — Disruption  in  Canton  de  Vaud — Disruption 
of  the  French  Protestant  Church— Deputies'  Meeting  at  Tanfield 
— Dr.  Stewart  at  Leghorn — Preaching  Stations — Foreign  Students 
at  our  Colleges — Professor  Francis  Ealogh,     .         .         .     C51-559 


XVI  CONTENTS. 


xLi.  The  Colonies.  ^ 

Church  Question  in  Canada — Qandlish  nearly  sent  out  of  Scotland  — 
Canadian  Disruption — Deputations — Theological  Colleges — Dr, 
Burns  goes  out — Revival — Disruption  in  Australia — Mr.  Salmon — 
Gold  "Discoveries — Dr.  Cairns — Dr.  Nicolson,  Hobart  Town — Dr. 
Bums,  Dunedin — Dr.  Cairns  in  Edinburgh,     .         .         .     560-576 

XLii.  -External  Progress. 

Few  fexpected  to  join  at  First — Dr.  Candlish  is  hopeful — ilinisters 
and  Congregations  multiplied — Table  showing  the  advance, 

577-581 
XLiii.  The  Disruption  in  Glenisla. 

Narrative  of  Events  in  the  Glen — A  Strong  Free  Church  formed, 

582-597 
XLiv.  Social  Standing  of  Free  Church  Ministers. 

Loss  of  status  dreaded — Lord  Cockburn  describes  the  trial — Social 
Relations  modified — Broken  Ties — Dr.  Guthrie  and  Lord  Medwyn 
— Experience  of  Ministers — Marquis  of  Bute  and  Mr.  Bannatyne, 

598-606 
xlv.  The  Funds. 

Misgivings  of  Friends — Anticipations  of  Adversaries — Estimate  by 
Dr.  Chalmers — Table  showing  the  Amount  of  Money  realised, 

607-610 


part  119. 

THE   EFFECT   OF   THE   DISRUPTION   ON   THE 
RELIGIOUS   LIFE   OF  SCOTLAND. 

XL VI.  Dangers  in  1843. 

Christian  Work  done  by  Free  Church — Difficulties — Danger  of 
Re-action,  of  Controversial  Spirit,  of  Boastfulness — Warning  by 
Dr.  Candlish— Dr.  H,  Grey— Rev.  A.  Gray,    .         .         .     611-614 

XLVii.  Church's  Testimony  for  Christ's  Headship. 

This  runs  through  her  Past  History — Disruption  Testimony — Dr. 
James  Hamilton — Quarterly  Review — Meeting  at  Dumfries — 
Glenkens — Larbert — Dr.  Angell  James — Dr.  Hodge,      .     615-622 

XLvm.  The  Call  to  Work. 

Dr.  Chalmers— Mr.  Sym— Robert  Paul,  Esq 623-626 

XLix.  The  General  Assembly  of  1844. 

Personal  Religion — Dr.  Charles  Brown's  Sermon — Dr.  Chalmers — 
Dr.    Laird— Rev.    Andrew   Gray — Dr.    Elder,   of   Rothesay — Dr. 


CONTENTS.  XVll 


Hetherington — Mr.  Johnston — ¥.  Monod — Deputations   sent  out 
—Dr.  Thomson,  Paisley, 627-637 

L.  The  Whole  Membees  of  the  Church  Invited. 

Purer  Communion  in  Free  Church — Roslin,  Woodside,  &c.- — Mi. 
Melville,  of  Logie — Mr.  Thomson,  Prestonkirk — Kirk-Session  of 
Dunnichen — Young  Men's  Societies — Appeals  by  Dr.  Chalmers, 
&c 688-648 

L]    The  Highlands. 

People  adhere  generally  to  Free  Church — Kiltearn — Latheron — 
Preaching  Deputations — Breadalhane  Yacht — Famine — Dr.  Beith 
— Resolis — Mr.  Fraser,  of  Kirkhill,  in  Skye — Dr.  Begg  at  Apple- 
cross — Mr.  M 'Bride,  Rothesay — Torosay  in  Mull,  .         .     649-66.') 

Lii.  "The  Men." 

Two  Parties  among  "The  Men" — Communion  at  Snizort — "The 
Men's  Day  "  at  Duirness — Mr.  Findlater — Professor  Blackie — Dr. 
M'Lauchlan's  View— Mr.  Mackenzie  of  Farr,         .         .     666-682 

Liii.  The  Ladies'  Associ.vtions. 

Supply  of  Gaelic  Preachers  deficient — Ladies'  Associations  formed— 
Student-Teachers — Favourable  Educational  Results — Nearly  One 
Hundred  go  forward  to  the  Ministry  of  the  Free  Church — Con- 
tributions raised — Blessing  to  the  People,         .         .         .     683-690 

Liv.  St.  Kilda. 

Its  neglected  State — Dr.  M'Donald  of  XJrquhart's  Visit — Church  and 
Manse  built — People  join  the  Free  Church — Deprived  of  Church 
and  refused  a  Site — Remain  firm — After  Ten  Years  get  use  of  the 
Church— Minister  settled, 691-699 

L"^ .  Rural  Districts. 

The  Moderates — Dr.  Ramsay  Davidson — Mr.  Hutchison,  of  Udding- 
ston — "  Zaccheus  " — Open-air  Preaching— Mr.  Cormick,  of  Kirrie- 
muir— Muirkirk — Northern  Parish — Favourable  Results,    700-712 

lvi.  Sabbath  Observance. 

The  Cause  zealously  taken  up — Parish  Ministers — Sir  A.  Agnew — 
Railway  System — Principal  Fairbairn — Post-Office — Appeals  bj 
Mr.  Nixon  and  Dr.  Chalmers, 713-71/ 

Lvn.  Temperance. 

Intemperance  the  Great  Obstacle — Committee  appointed — House  o) 
Commons  appealed  to — Kirk -Sessions  enjoined,  .     718-720 


XVIU  CONTENTS. 

SECTIOX 

LViii.  Sabbath  Schools 

At  once  taken  up  in  1843 — Statistics — Mr.  William  Dickson 
appointed  Convener — Ministers  enjoined — A  New  Departure  in 
1SG9 — Valuable  Reports — Liberal  Donors — New  Year's  Contribu- 
tions— Encouraging  Success, 721-729 

liix.  Unions. 

Old  Light  Burgher  Synod  in  1839 — United  Original  Seceders  in  1852 
— ;The    Reformed    Presbyterians    in    1876 — Testimony    to    Free 

Church  Principles 730-734 

Lx.  The  Larger  Cities— Home-Mission  Work. 

Dr.  Chalmers  at  the  West  Port — Small  Beginnings — Mr.  Tasker — 
Great  Success — Other  Cases  in  Edinburgh — The  Wynds,  Glasgow 
—Mr.  M'Coll— Wonderful  Results,  ....     735-745 

LXi.  Results  of  the  Disruption — Spiritual  Fruit. 

Men  impressed  —  D'Aubignd  —  Mr.  Wood,  of  Elie  —  Larbert — 
Kenmore — Kirkbean — Dunnichen — Keith — Dr.  John  Bruce,  of 
Edinburgh — Huntly — Mr.  Taylor,  of  Flisk — Cases  of  Conversion — 
Dinwoodie  Green — Jedburgh — Professor  Miller — Mr.  Rattray, 
Glenisla — Case  in  Breadalbane, 746-764 

LXii.  Longing  Desires  for  Revival. 

Statement  by  Mr.  Sym — Elders  at  Kirkbean — Experience  of  Mr. 
Glen,  of  Benholm — His  Trials — New  Church  opened — Course  of 
Sermons  on  Revivals — Discouragements — Longing  Desires, 

765-772 
Lxiii.  Revivals. 

Ferryden  in  1846 — Revivalin  Ireland  (1859)— Awakening  in  Scot- 
land— Professor  James  Buchanan — Carnwath — Flisk — Deskford — 
Mr.  Brownlow  North  —  West  Port  —  Pleasance  —  Finnieston — 
Latheron — Ferryden  in  1860 — Permanence  of  the  Results — Dr. 
Robert  Buchanan's  Estimate,  ......     773-786 

lxiv.  Final. 

The  Disruption  the  Lord's  Doing — Some  of  its  Results  and  Lessons, 

787-796 
Appendix  L— Pre-Disruption  Ministers,  Surviving  and  Deceased, 

797-813 
M        IL — List  op  Disruption  Manuscripts,  .        .        .    814,815 

„  III. — Amount  of  Funds  raised  by  the  Free  Church  from 
the  Disruption  to  1873-74, 816 

M  IV. — Pre-Disruption  Ministers  Deceased  since  1st 
March,  1890,  and  Names  of  Pre-Disruption  Min- 
isters surviving,  15th  October,  1892,        Slow,  816a 

Index  to  Names  op  Persons  and  Places,  .        .        .     817-341 


Ipart    £ 


The  Disruption— How  it  was  brought  about 
— The  Immediate  Results. 


ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 


I.  Febe  Chukch  Peinciples  an  Inheritance. 

The  Disruption  and  its  results  will  be  best  understood  if  we 
begin  by  inquiring  how  it  came  that  so  many  of  the  ministers 
and  people  were  prepared  to  meet  the  crisis  of  1843,  and  to 
act  the  part  which  they  did.  In  not  a  few  cases  they  tell 
us  that  little  was  needed  in  the  way  of  special  preparation. 
Dr.  Poote,  of  Aberdeen,  in  speaking  of  his  own  experience, 
mentions,  what  was  equally  true  of  many  of  his  brethren  : 
"  In  my  early  years  I  held  those  views  which  belong  to  evan- 
gelical, orthodox,  thorough-paced  Presbyterian  ism.  ...  I  take 
no  credit  for  standing  to  what  I  ever  felt  to  be  the  essen- 
tial principles  of  the  Church  of  Scotland ;  but  I  bless  God 
that,  after  co-operating  with  others,  ...  to  prevent  the  neces- 
sity of  breaking  our  connection  with  the  State,  I  felt  no  desire, 
and  no  temptation,  not  to  act  with  decision  when  that  neces- 
sity became  plain."*  These  views  would  seem  in  some  cases 
to  have  come  down  by  hereditary  descent  from  those  who 
had  fought  the  same  battle  in  former  times.  Dr.  Patrick 
M'Farlan,  of  Greenock,  whose  name  stands  first  at  the  Deed  of 
Demission,  belonged  to  a  family  who  for  four  generations  in 
succession  held  office  in  the  Church  of  Scotland,  his  great- 
grandfather having  been  ordained  shortly ^after  the  Kevolution. 
Dr.  Welsh,  who  headed  the  procession  on  the  day  of  the  Dis- 
ruption, was  descended  from  forefathers  who,  amidst  the  upper 
moorlands  round  the  sources  of  the  Tweed,  had  suffered  for  the 
cause,  of  Christ  in  the  days  of  persecution.  Mr.  Garment,  of 
Rosskeen,  was  the  grandson  of  John  Garment,  born  in  1G72, 
*  Db.  Mss.  xxiv.  p.  2. 


2  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

and  baptised  under  cloud  of  night  among  the  hills  of  Irongray 
by  the  well-kuown  John  Welsh. .  These  men — and  there  "were 
others  of  similar  ancestry — were  obviously  in  the  right *place 
when,  amidst  the  struggles  of  1843,  they  proved  their  heredi- 
tary attachment  to  the  cause  of  Christ's  Crown  and  Covenant. 

Apart,  however,  from  all  connection  in  the  way  of  lineal 
descent,  these  historical  associations  exercised  a  powerful  influ- 
ence among  the  people  of  Scotland.  Mr.  Taylor,  of  Flisk,  thus 
refers  to  the  effect  of  such  memories  on  his  own  mind  :  "  I  owe 
much  to  the  early  and  frequent  reading  of  the  '  Scots  Worthies,' 
from  which  I  saw  that  the  principles  of  the  Free  Church  are 
those  for  w^hich  the  Church  of  Scotland  has  always  contended 
in  her  best  times.  Tliese  princijiles  are  truly  Scottish,  as  well 
as  truly  scriptural.  They  have  been  baptised  by  the  sufferings 
and  blood  of  our  fathers,  and  this  has  doubly  endeared  them  to 
me.  As  I  benefited  so  much  by  the  reading  of  that  book,  I 
have  generally  recommended  it,  .  .  .  as  one  of  the  best  books  to 
throw  light  on  our  principles  and  position."*  The  results  of 
such  reading,  accordingly,  were  met  with,  not  only  among  the 
ministers,  but  in  many  districts  among  the  people  also.  At 
Monkton,  in  Ayrshire,  it  is  stated  that  "  much  of  the  spirit  of 
the  old  Covenanters  "  remained.  "  There  are  few  dwellings  in 
which  there  is  not  a  small  library,  and  in  these  libraries  there  is 
generally  a  well-thumbed  copy  of  the  'Scots  Worthies,'  the  'Cloud 
of  Witnesses,*  or  'Foxe's  Book  of  Martyrs,'  in  which  they  find  that 
the  principles  for  which  the  Church  is  contending  are  principles 
in  maintenance  of  which  their  fathers  shed  their  blood." •}- 

Thus,  over  wide  districts  of  Scotland  there  were  very  many 
even  of  the  humblest  classes  to  whom  the  names  and  principles 
connected  with  covenanting  times  had  long  been  familiar. 
Weavers  at  the  loom,  artisans  in  the  workshop,  ploughmen  in  the 
fields,  and  shepherds  outamong  the  hills,  cherished  those  memories 
and  felt  their  power,  and  all  through  the  conflict,  we  ♦find 
allusions  to  those  times  meeting  us  at  every  step. 

Sometimes  there  were  local  associations  which  gave  special 
force  to  the  appeal.  At  Lesmahagow,  the  people  lived  in  a 
district  round  which  lay  Bothwell  Bridge,  and  Airsmoss,  and 

*  Dis.  Mss.  xxxvii.  pp.  1,  2.  +  Dis.  Mss.  xxxiv.  p.  2. 


FEEE  CHUKCH  PRINCIPLES  AN  INHERITANCE.  3 

Drumclog,  and  the  spot  where  John  Brown,  of  Priesthill,  was 
shot  by  Claverhouse.  A  single  example  may  be  given  of  those 
mentioned  by  Dr.  Parker  to  illustrate  the  ties  which  connect  the 
present  with  that  former  generation.  "  James  Dykes,  of  Leads- 
head,  is  the  senior  member  of  my  session.  Though  now  [1846] 
at  the  advanced  age  of  eighty-seven,  he  is  regular  in  his  attend- 
ance at  church  from  Sabbath  to  Sabbath,  not  excepting  wet 
and  stormy  days.  He  is  the  great-grandson  of  John  Steel,  of 
Waterhead,  who  occupied  so  conspicuous  a  place  in  the  troublous 
times  of  the  Second  Charles.  He  was  by  far  the  most  dis- 
tinguished man  in  this  district  of  country  ['  looked  up  to  as 
leader  and  counsellor  of  the  Covenanters  in  the  West '  ].  He 
was  driven  from  his  house  and  lands  by  the  force  of  persecution, 
and  wandered  as  an  outlaw  for  many  a  weary  day.  He  was 
present  with  a  brother  at  Airsmoss,  and  narrowly  escaped  with 
his  life.  Towards  the  close  of  the  battle,  a  trooper  rode  up  to 
Steel  and  his  brother,  who  were  making  their  way  from  the 
field  on  foot.  They  were  both  exceedingly  nimble,  but  the 
horseman  soon  came  up  to  them,  and  addressing  the  laird  of 
Waterhead,  cried,  '  Stand,  dog,  and  die.'  The  laird  turning 
dexterously  round  on  his  pursuer,  with  a  heavy  back-stroke 
brought  him  to  the  ground.  He  then  set  his  brother  on  the 
trooper's  horse,  and  he  himself  ran  on  foot.  .  .  .  His  daughter, 
Isabella,  the  grandmother  of  my  elder,  was  one  of  the  first 
children  baptised  in  Lesmahagow  Parish  Church  after  the 
Revolution.  .  .  .  She  was  married  to  William  Dykes,  in  St. 
Bride's  Chapel,  Parish  of  Avondale ;  and  after  she  became  a 
widow,  she  resided  with  her  son,  the  father  of  my  elder.  He 
remembers  her  well.  He  was  sixteen  years  old  when  she  died, 
and  many  a  winter  night  he  has  sat  by  her  side  listening  to  the 
tales  she  told  of  the  times  of  persecution,  and  of  the  eventful 
scenes  through  which  her  father  passed.  ...  It  is  interesting  to 
remark  that  he  is  separated  by  so  small  an  interval — as  it  were 
a  single  life — from  the  period  in  which  men  were  doomed  to 
imprisonment  and  death,  for  no  other  cause  than  choosing  to 
worship  God  according  to  the  dictates  of  conscience."*  In  a 
parish  where  such  hereditary  connections  prevailed,  it  was  no 
*  Dis.  Mss.  xxxi.  p.  28. 


4  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISKUPTION. 

accidental  coincidence  that,  when  the  d;iy  of  trial  came  in  1843, 
Dr.  Parker,  on  abandoning  the  Establishment,  Avas  accompanied 
by  five  of  his  seven  elders,  and  hy  a  strong  body  of  SOO^com- 
municants,  comprising  in  their  number  fifty  of  the  farmers  who 
belonged  to  the  district. 

At  Edinburgh  also  such  local  associations  with  those  old 
times  were  not  unfrequently  referred  to.  Thus,  at  one  of  the 
meetings,  an  oflfice-bearer  appealed  to  the  people  :  "  Lawsuits, 
fines,  and  actions  of  damages  have  now  superseded  the  gibbet 
and  the  stake.  But  the  spirit  of  persecution  is  as  truly  at  work 
as  ever  it  was  in  the  days  of  King  Charles.  .  .  .  What  cowardly 
dastards  we  must  be,  if  we  lose  without  a  struggle  what  cost 
our  forefathers  so  much  to  gain.  Imprisonment,  fines,  death, 
tortures  had.  no  terrors  for  them.  .  .  .  Yonder  lies  the  Grey- 
friars'  Churchyard,  where  our  fathers  solemnly  subscribed  the 
Covenant — some  of  them  with  their  very  blood  ;  and  there,  sir, 
lies  the  Grassmarket,  where  the  fires  of  persecution  were  often 
lighted.  .  .  .  Who  is  there  who  can  stand  where  we  now  stand 
.  .  .  without  feeling  the  glow  of  enthusiastic  zeal  thrilling 
through  his  every  nerve  and  fibre?  Let  us,  then,  with  one 
heart  and  mind,  declare  our  unalterable  adherence  to  the  prin- 
ciples for  which  our  fathers  bled,  and  died,  and  for  which  our 
Church  is  now  contending.  Let  us  declare  that,  come  what 
may,  we  will  abide  by  these,  and.  stand  by  the  ministers  who 
are  ready  to  maintain  them  to  the  uttermost.  But,  sir,  let  us 
not  attempt  to  do  this  in  our  own  strength ;  ...  let  us  resolve 
to  do  it  in  the  strength  of  God."  * 

Sometimes  there  were  cases  in  which  the  personal  element 
was  specially  prominent,  as  in  a  speech  by  Mr.  Garment,  of 
Rosskeen,  already  referred  to.  After  alluding  to  the  hard- 
ships of  the  Church,  he  went  on  to  say  :  "  Bad  as  matters  are, 
v»e  should  remember  it  is  no  new  thing  that  has  befallen  us.  .  .  . 
My  son  is  the  outed  minister  of  Comrie.  On  coming  South  I 
went  to  see  him,  for  there  was  some  work  waiting  for  me.  He 
had  got  an  infant  son,  and  the  boy  had  been  left  unbaptised 
till  the  old  man,  his  grandfather,  should  come  and  baptise  him. 
At  Comrie,  just  as  in  tlie  Highlands,  the  congregatioi^  had  to 

*  Witness,  4tb  January,  1S43.  y 


FllEE  CHUECH  PRINCIPLES  AN  INHERITANCE.  6 

meet  on  the  bare  hillside  ;  and  when  the  child  was  brought  up 
to  me  to  be  baptised,  it  did  forcibly  strike  me,  as  well  it  might, 
that  the  circumstances  in  which  we  were  placed  were  not  new. 
And  so  I  said  to  the  people  before  I  began :  '  Here  am  I  ,  .  . 
going  to  baptise  my  grandson  in  the  open  air  on  the  bare  hill- 
side— I,  whose  grandfather  was  baptised  in  the  open  air  on 
the  bare  hillside,  in  the  times  of  the  last  great  persecution. 
.  .  .  My  father  has  told  me  that  in  carrying  out  the  infant 
under  the  cloud  of  night  they  had  to  pass  the  curate's  house, 
and  they  were  greatly  alarmed  lest  it  should  cry  in  the  passing, 
and  bring  out  the  curate  on  them.  But  it  kept  quiet,  and 
they  regarded  the  thing  as  a  special  Providence."  * 

Frequent  allusions  such  as  these  meet  us  all  through  the 
conflict,  not  only  influencing  men's  views,  but  moulding  the 
very  terms  and  modes  of  expression  in  which  the  great  princi- 
ples were  set  before  the  country.  "  I  have  often  thought  of 
late,"  Dr.  Candlish  said  on  the  eve  of  the  Disruption,  "  since  we 
have  been  compelled  to  make  ourselves  familiar  with  the  stories 
of  the  martyrs,  .  .  .  that  in  the  course  of  these  painful  con- 
troversies we  have  not  yet  got  a  suitable  watchword  .  .  . 
a  banner  worthy  of  the  days  of  old,  worthy  of  the  Covenant. 
Non-intrusion  is  a  good  enough  word,  but  it  would  look  ill 
upon  some  lonely  gravestone  in  the  wilds  of  Ayr.  Spiritual 
independence  is  a  good  enough  phrase,  but  it  would  scarcely 
bear  to  be  emblazoned  on  our  banner  in  the  day  of  battle,  when 
the  stormy  winds  shall  blow.  It  is  not  non-intrusion  or 
spiritual  independence  that  will  do  now,  but  the  old  time-worn 
and  hallowed  watchw:ord  of  our  fathers — '  The  Croiun-rights 
of  the  Redeemer.'  .  .  .  We  shall  maintain  these  Crown- rights, 
perhaps  in  a  state  of  exile  from  the  Establishment,  perhaps  in 
a  state  of  sufiering — of  toil  and  privation.  It  is  possible  that 
even  out  of  the  Establishment,  the  claims  which  have  been  put 
forth  against  us  by  Caesar  and  his  Courts  may  follow  us,  for 
indications  and  hints  were  given  in  Parliament  of  principles 
which,  if  carried  out,  would  deny  freedom,  not  only  to  the 
Church  Established,  but  to  the  Church  of  Christ.  Be  that  as  it 
may,  oh,  let  us  be  resolved  and  determined  that  we  shall  raain- 
*  Witness  Newspaper,  4th  November,  1843. 


6  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION, 

tain  the  rights  of  Christ  the  King,  whether  in  or  out  of  the 
Establishment — under  persecution  if  need  be."  * 

Thus,  as  the  controversy  went  on  it  connected  itself  witli  the 
struggles  of  former  times,  but  not  often  was  that  connection 
more  fittingly  expressed  than  in  the  words  of  M'Cheyne  :  "  In 
generations  past  this  cause  has  been  maintained  in  Scotland  at 
all  hands  and  against  all  enemies,  and  if  God  calls  us  to  put  our 
feet  in  the  blood-stained  footsteps  of  the  Scottish  Worthies,  I 
dare  not  boast,  but  I  will  pray  that  the  calm  faith  of  Hugh 
Mackail,  and  the  cheerful  courage  of  Donald  Cargill,  may  be 
given  me."  -}* 

*  PFitness,  25tli  March,  1843.  The  reader  will  observe  there  was  no 
expectation  that  by  going  out  at  the  Disruption  the  Free  Church  would, 
ipso  facto,  be  free  from  the  encroachments  of  the  Civil  Courts.  Irre- 
spective of  all  consequences,  however,  we  shall  see  how  the  Church,  for 
the  relief  of  her  own  conscience,  had  to  abandon  her  position  in  the 
Establishment,  in  order  that  she  might  remain  faithful  to  Christ.  What- 
ever came  of  it,  she  would  at  least  not  be  compromised  by  retaining  her 
emoluments  under  such  conditions  as  came  to  be  attached  to  them. 

t  Memoir,  p.  560. 


EELIGIOUS  EEVIVAL  A  PREPAEATION. 


II.  Keligious  Revival  a  Peepa  ration. 

But  there  was  another  cause  which  prepared  men  for  the 
change,  and  which  was  much  more  generally  and  powerfully  felt 
— the  revived  spirit  of  vital  religion  then  pervading  the  country. 
This  is  frankly  spoken  of  by  some  of  the  ministers  as  having 
been  experienced  by  themselves.  Of  all  such  examples  the 
most  conspicuous  is  that  of  Dr.  Chalmers,  as  given  in  his  bio- 
graphy. In  the  Disruption  Mss.  there  are  similar  instances 
more  briefly  referred  to. 

"  I  had  been  led/'  says  Mr.  Innes,  of  Deskford,  "  by  the 
blessing  of  God  to  a  more  evangelical  style  of  preaching  and  to 
greater  seriousness  than  at  the  earlier  period  of  my  ministry,"* 

Mr.  Jeffrey,  of  Girth  on,  stated,  a  few  days  before  his  death, 
"  that  from  the  first  he  had  preached  the  Gospel  to  the 
light  he  had  received,  but  that  a  great  change  had  taken  place 
fifteen  years  before,  when  his  views  of  religion  became  much 
more  earnest  and  deeply  evangelical."-|- 

Such,  also,  was  the  experience  of  Dr.  Landsborough,  of 
Stevenston,  who,  as  appears  from  a  letter  of  his  friend,  Professor 
Thomas  Brown,  had  been  brought  forward  in  1811  by  Dr.  Inglis 
and  the  "  desperately  moderate  men."  Looking  back  to  that 
period  he  states  in  his  Diary  for  1842,  "How  great  was  then  my 
darkness,  how  unfit  my  spirit  for  the  solemn  work  on  which  I 
was  about  to  be  engaged."  And  again,  under  another  date,  "  My 
birthday.  What  changes  in  the  world  since  my  life  began. 
How  many  changes  in  my  own  life.  Thou  hast  borne  with  me. 
.  .  .  Thou  hast  enlightened  me.  I  have  reason  to  hope  that  I 
am  renewed,  and  on  the  way  to  heaven."+     It  seems  to  have 

*  Dis.  Mss.  XV.  p.  1.  t  Parker  Mss.,  Pres.  of  Kirkcudbright. 

:::  Memoir,  p.  163. 


8  ajstnals  of  the  disruption. 

been  at  a  comparatively  early  period  in  his  ministry  that  the 
change  had  taken  place,  and  we  find  him  in  the  midst  of  the 
revival- work  of  1840,  labouring  in  his  parish,  and  rejoicing 
with  all  his  heart. 

Throughout  the  manses  of  Scotland,  it  is  believed  that  such 
cases  were  not  rare.  But  few  were  so  remarkable  as  that  of  Mr. 
Roderick  M'Leod,  whose  name  is  identified  with  the  revival  of 
religion  in  Skye.  "During  the  first  three  years  of  my  minis- 
try," he  says,  "I  was  an  entire  stranger  to  the  Gospel  scheme 
of  salvation  ;  and  no  wonder,  for  the  staple  theology  of  Skye 
preaching  in  those  days  was  nothing  better  than  scraps  of 
Blair's  Sermons  or  of  some  other  equally  meagre  stufi",  so  that 
I  have  often  thought  that  I  scarcely  ever  heard  the  Gospel  till 
I  began  to  preach  it  myself,  with  the  exception  of  going  two  or 
three  times  to  the  Gaelic  Chapel  in  Aberdeen."  He  refers  to 
one  evangelical  minister  in  Skye,  Mr.  Shaw,  of  Bracadale,  from 
whom  he  borrowed  a  treatise  of  Bellamy's,  which  threw  him 
into  a  state  of  alarm  for  his  own  salvation.  It  was  a  sermon 
by  Dr.  Chalmers  which  opened  his  eyes  to  the  Gospel.  After 
this  he  preached  two  years  at  the  station  of  Arnisort,  and  then, 
on  the  death  of  Mr.  Shaw,  was  translated  to  Bracadale.  His 
change  of  views  and  principles  brought  a  corresponding  change 
in  dealing  with  his  parishioners,  more  especially  on  the  subject 
of  baptism,  and  there  followed  a  series  of  collisions  wuth  the 
Moderate  Presbytery,  who  would  fain  have  deposed  him,  and 
cast  him  out  of  the  Church.  The  Disruption  is  accordingly 
spoken  of  as  having  brought  him  "unmingled  relief,  and  a 
happy  termination  to  a  twice  ten  years'  conflict."  * 

It  was  among  the  people,  however,  that  this  awakening  was 
most  general,  and  its  effects  most  clearly  seen  in  preparing  men 
for  the  Disruption.  The  concurrence  of  testimony  on  this  point 
is  very  striking.  Thus  at  Kilsyth,  well  known  as  the  scene  of  a 
remarkable  revival  under  the  Rev.  Mr.  Robe  in  1742,  there 
occurred  a  similar  time  of  blessing  in  1 839,  when  "  from  July 
to  October  the  whole  community  flocked  to  hear  the  Word  with 
the  deepest  earnestness."  This  movement,  which  attracted  at 
the  time  the  attention  of  all  Scotland,  is  described  by  Dr.  Burns 
*  Parker  Mss..  Pres.  of  Skj'e. 


RELIGI0I3S  REVIVAL  A  PREPAEATION.  9 

as  "a  sun  blink  of  Gospel  liglit  and  warmth;"  and,  he  adds,  "the 
fact  is  unquestionable,  that  the  greater  number  of  those  who 
have  been  seriously  impressed,  at  the  time  referred  to,  have 
attached  themselves  to  the  Free  Church."*  It  was  an  interest- 
ing coincidence,  that  a  prayer  meeting  which  dates  from  the 
time  of  Mr.  Robe,  and  which  for  fifty  years  had  been  held  in 
an  upper  rooiu,  gave  accommodation  to  the  first  meetings  for 
organising  the  Free  Church  movements  in  the  parish. 

In  Strathbogie  similar  preparatory  work  is  described.  Mr. 
Cowie,  a  dissenting  minister  in  Huntly,  "  a  man  of  eminent 
piety,  vigorous  mind,  .  .  and  remarkable  zeal  in  his  Master's 
work,"  is  said  to  have  produced  a  powerful  effect  on  the  district, 
and  to  have  left  many  seals  of  his  ministry.  "  Another  of  these 
Strathbogie  parishes  is  Botriphnie,  where,  about  eighty  years  ago, 
there  was  a  godly  parish  minister,  Mr.  Campbell,  to  whose 
ministry  the  people  were  wont  to  travel  for  many  miles."  One 
of  the  fruits  of  his  ministry  was  Mr.  Cowie  just  referred  to. 
"  It  is  said  that  a  godly  farmer,  who  had  been  converted  under 
the  ministry  of  Mr.  Campbell,  mourning  over  the  almost  univer- 
sal deadness  both  of  ministers  and  people,  was  wont  to  spend 
much  of  the  night  in  prayer  in  his  barn  for  times  of  awakening 
and  revival,  and  that  long  after  this  godly  man  was  gathered  to 
his  fathers,  this  very  barn  was  it  in  which,  for  five  and  a-half 
years,  the  Free  Church  congregation  found  a  shelter  for  the 
worship  of  God,  and  in  which  many  precious  sermons  were 
preached,  and  not  a  few  souls  were  converted. "*f 

A  revival  of  religion  is  recorded  to  have  taken  place  in 
Lawers  and  Lochtayside  in  1815.  Again  a  similar  work 
appeared  in  1834<,  and  subsequent  years,  in  connection  with 
the  ministry  of  Mr.  Campbell,  of  Lawers,  and  his  younger 
brother  in  Glenlyon,  assisted  by  the  Eev.  William  Burns. 
Often  would  Mr.  Campbell,  of  Lawers,  afterward  of  Kiltearn, 
"  when  in  company  with  Christian  friends,  revert  to  these 
great  days  of  the  Son  of  man."  His  younger  brother,  Mr. 
Campbell,  of  Glenlyon,  afterwards  of  Tarbat,  writing  under 
date  October,  1864,  mentions  : — "  I  witnessed  three  religious 
revivals — one  in  Breadalbane  and  Glenlyon,  in  the  year  1816  : 
*  Dis.  Mss.  xxix.  pp.  2,  3.  t  Dis.  ]\Iss.  x.  pp.  1,  2,  5. 


10  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 

one  in  Tarbat  and  other  parishes  in  Eoss-shire,  in  the  years 
1840  and  1841 ;  a  third  in  Lawers  in  the  year  1861.  Let 
sovereign  grace  have  all  the  glory."  Both  brothers  took  a 
decided  part  in  the  "  Ten  Years'  Conflict,"  and  were  of  signal 
service  to  the  Eree 'Church  in  1843,  and  afterwards. 

In  Eoss-shire,  Mr.  Plyter,  of  Alness,  gives  his  view  of  how 
men  were  made  ready  for  the  Disruption  : — "Preparation  was 
made  in  regard  to  elders  and  people  in  the  influences  with 
which  the  Lord  accompanied  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel.  This 
influence  was  striking  and  impressive  in  various  parts  of  the 
country  in  1840.  About  that  time  in  every  district  of  the  parish 
of  Ahiess  there  were  some  sin-sick  souls."  * 

Dr.  Mackintosh,  of  Tain,  bears  his  decided  testimony  to  the 
reality  of  this  movement.  "  What  I  believe  to  be  a  genuine 
revival  of  religion — the  work  of  the  Spirit  of  God — has  taken 
place  during  the  past  year  [1840]  to  a  considerable  extent  in 
this  parish  and  district.  .  .  .  There  was  at  first  a  good  deal  of 
outward  excitement  on  some  occasions  under  the  Word,  but 
this  gradually  diminished.  .  .  .  The  experience  which  I  had  of 
the  revival  of  religion,  though  limited  and  partial,  is  such  as 
would  lead  me  to  long  for  its  continuance  and  to  pant  for  its 
return,  as  bringing  with  it  the  blessed  results  for  which  a 
minister  of  Christ  would  desire  to  live  and  die — the  conversion 
of  sinners  and  the  increasing  consolation  and  edification  of 
saints."  + 

At  Collace,  Dr.  A.  Bonar  speaks  of  the  parish  having  been 
"  prepared  by  a  work  of  Divine  grace  in  the  souls  of  many 
among  us.  After  my  return  from  the  mission  to  the  Jews  in 
Palestine  and  other  countries  a  decided  awakening  took  place. 
In  the  month  of  May,  1840,  there  was  a  deep  impression  on 
many,  attended  with  outward  expressions  of  concern  upon  one 
occasion  when  we  were  met  during  the  week  for  prayer,  but 
in  general  the  work  was  silent.  After  that  date  one  and 
another  at  difierent  intervals  seemed  brought  under  the  power 
of  the  truth.  On  the  fast  day  appointed  by  our  Assembly — in 
prospect  of  the  solemn  crisis  of  the  Disruption — two  persons 

*  Parish  of  Alness,  by  the  Eev.  A.  Flyter,  Parker  Mss. 
+  Memorials  of  Kev.  C.  Mackintosh,  D.D.,  p.  53. 


RELIGIOUS  EEVIVA.L  A  PEEPARATION.  ]1 

were  led  to  the  cross.  In  all  these  cases,  without  one  exception, 
the  individuals  became  most  decided  in  their  views  regarding 
the  Headship  and  Crown-rights  of  the  Redeemer ;  and  neither 
in  this  nor  any  of  the  neighbouring  parishes  did  any  of  these 
awakened  persons  remain  in  the  Establishment  when  the  crisis 
came."  * 

Mr.  Garment,  of  Rosskeen  (Ross-shire),  writes,  under  date. 
January,  1841  : — "  Though  the  prospects  of  the  beloved  Church 
of  my  fathers  are  becoming  every  day  more  dark  and  gloomy, 
.  .  .  yet  the  prospects  of  this  parish  are  becoming  increasingly 
bright  and  pleasing.  There  has  been  since  1840  a  very  remark- 
able awakening  and  religious  revival  in  this  parish  and  neigh- 
bourhood, especially  among  the  young;  and  numbers,  I  have 
reason  to  believe,  have  been  savingly  converted.  ...  I  have  been 
enabled  to  preach  frequently  on  week  days  to  attentive,  impressed, 
and  weeping  congregations,  who  flock  by  night  and  by  day  to 
hear  the  Word."  At  the  previous  communion  he  had  admitted 
more  communicants  than  during  the  whole  of  the  preceding 
eighteen  years  of  his  ministry.  "  It  seems  to  me  a  token  for 
good  that  our  present  contendings  as  a  Church  are  approved 
by  God,  when  revivals  of  religion  are  taking  place  in  various 
parts  of  Scotland  at  a  time  when  the  Court  of  Session  is,  like 
the  Scottish  Council  of  old,  trying  not  only  to  intrude  unac- 
ceptable ministers  into  parishes  by  an  illegal  assumption  of 
power  not  sanctioned  by  the  constitution  of  the  country,  but 
in  direct  violation  of  all  those  Statutes  which  were  passed  to 
secure  the  Church  against  all  such  attempts."  i* 

One  additional  example  may  be  given,  on  the  testimony  of  Mr. 
M'Cheyne,  as  to  the  work  in  Dundee  : — "  It  is  my  decided  and 
solemn  conviction,  in  the  sight  of  God,  that  a  very  remarkable 
and  glorious  work  of  God,  in  the  conversion  of  sinners  and  edify- 
ing of  saints,  has  taken  place  in  this  parish  and  neighbourhood. 
This  work  I  have  observed  going  on  from  the  very  beginning 
of  my  ministry  in  this  place  in  November,  1836,  and  it  has 
continued  to  the  present  time.  But  it  was  much  more  remark- 
able in  the  autumn  of  1839,  when  I  was  abroad  on  a  mission 

*  Dis.  Mss.  xxi.  pp.  1,  2. 
t  Parish  of  llosskeen,  Eev.  J.  Garment,  Parker  Mss. 


12  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

of  inquiry  to  the  Jews,  and  when  my  place  was  occupied  by 
tlie  Kev.  W.  C.  Burns.  .  .  .  Immediately  after  the  beginning  of 
the  Lord's  work  at  Kilsyth,  the  Word  of  God  came  with  such 
power  to  the  hearts  and  consciences  of  the  people  here,  and 
their  thirst  for  hearing  it  became  so  intense,  that  the  evening- 
classes  in  the  schoolroom  were  changed  into  densely-crowded 
congregations  in  the  church  ;  and  for  nearly  four  mouths  it  was 
found  desirable-  to  have  public  worship  almost  every  night. 
At  this  time,  also,  many  prayer  meetings  were  formed,  some 
of  which  were  strictly  private  or  fellowship  meetings ;  and 
others,  conducted  by  persons  of  some  Christian  experience, 
were  open  to  persons  under  concern  about  their  souls.  .  .  . 
Many  hundreds,  under  deep  concern  for  their  souls  have  come 
from  first  to  last  to  converse  with  the  ministers,  so  that  I 
am  deeply  persuaded  the  number  of  those  who  have  received 
saving  benefit  is  greater  than  any  one  will  know  till  the 
judgment  day."  * 

Nor  was  it  only  at  Dundee  that  such  effects  were  produced  ; 
a  blessing  was  seen  to  go  with  Mr.  M'Cheyne's  labours  in  other 
districts.  At  Wanlockhead,  Mr,  Hastings  speaks  of  a  change 
having  taken  place  in  his  congregation  "  since  the  sacrament 
in  July,  1841,  when  the  late  Eev.  Mr.  Murray  M'Cheyne  assisted 
me.  Many,  indeed,  Avere  melted  under  his  preaching,  and 
became  obviously  more  serious  in  their  demeanour,  and  the 
chapel  afterwards  more  regularly  crowded."  ..."  The  people 
here  understood  well  the  principles  of  the  Free  Church."  •}- 

In  the  district  of  Buchan,  Aberdeenshire,  "  the  various 
parishes  were  blessed  with  the  preaching  of  the  saintly 
M'Cheyne  in  the  early  part  of  1843,  and  in  Ellon,  as  elsewhere, 
he  left  precious  fruits  of  his  ministry.  Accordingly,  though  a 
year  before  the  Disruption  there  were  not  known  to  be  half-a- 
dozen  Non-intrusionists  in  the  whole  parish  of  Ellon,  when  the 
event  came,  a  congregation  of  above  a  hundred,  with  more  than 
eighty  communicants,  was  at  once  formed  in  this  stronghold  of 
Moderatisni ;  and  since  that  time  the  congregation  has  greatly 
increased  [1846]."  I 

It  was  a  striking  circumstance  that  the  whole  circle  of  friends 

♦  Memoir,  pp.  495,  496.         t  Dis.  Mss.  xix.         J  Dis.  Mss.  ix.  p.  4, 


KELIGIOUS  REVIVAL  A  PEEPARATION.  13 

with  whom  Mr.  M'Cheyne  was  specially  associated  were  of  one 
mind  through  the  whole  time  of  the    great  conflict.      There 
was  much  to  be  done  for  Christ  in  Scotland,  and  God  had 
raised  up  a  remarkable  band  of  labourers  in  the  zeal  of  their 
first  love,  and  in  the  strength  of  early  manhood.     What  Dr. 
Horatius  Bonar  says  of  one  of  their  number — Mr.  Milne,  of 
Perth — was  equally  true  of  them  all : — "  In  the  movements  of 
the  '  Ten  Years'  Conflict'  he  took  no  lukewarm  part,  though  by 
no  means  an  Ecclesiastic  in  the  common  sense  of  the  word ;  he 
was  a  thorough  Presbyterian — a  vigorous  maintainer  of  Kefor- 
mation  doctrine  and  Eeformation  discipline.    Those  who  counted 
upon  his  laxity  in  regard  to  Church  principles,  and  who  were 
persuaded  that  a  man  so  spiritual  and  so  silent  in  Church  Courts 
would  take  no  part  in  the  struggles  of  these  years,  were  surprised 
at  the  resolute  decision  which  he  showed  in  adopting,  and  the 
energy  in  maintaining,  the  great  ecclesiastical  principles  then 
battled  for.  .  .  .  The  ecclesiastical  turmoil  seemed  to  elevate,  not 
to  depress — to  spiritualise,  not  to  secularise.     All  the  brethren 
whom  he  loved,  and  in  whose  fellowship  he  delighted,  were  of 
one  mind  on  the  questions  which  were  dividing  the  Church 
Courts.     Hence  they  could  meet  together,  confer  together,  pray 
together.    All  were  of  one  heart  and  of  one  soul,  .  .  .  The  Church 
questions  agitated  were  not  those  of  partisanship  or  routine, 
they  were  vital  and  spiritual,  both  in  themselves  and  in  their 
bearings.     They  centred  in  Christ  Himself — Christ,  the  Law- 
giver  of   the    Church — Christ,   the    Lawgiver   of  the  realm. 
Hence,  in  handling  them.  Christian  men  were  dealing  with  the 
Master  and  the  Master's  honour.     The  questions  were  summed 
up  in  two  :  '  Shall  Christ  give  laws  to  the  Church,  or  shall  the 
Church  give  laws  to  herself?     Shall  Christ  give  laws  to  the 
nations,  or  shall  the  nations  give  laws  to  themselves  ?'    Christian 
men  had  not  to  come  down  to  secularities  and  externalisms 
in  maintaining  these.     They  felt  they  were  discussing  matters 
which  touched  their  spiritual  interests  on  every  side,  and  they 
were  contending  for  truths  which  brought  their  souls  in  contact 
with  the  Lord  Himself."  * 

The  testimony  of  such  men  was  of  incalculable  value — drawing 
*  Life  of  Rev.  J.  Milne,  by  Dr.  Horatius  Bouar,  pp.  74-7ti. 


14  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

the  hearts  and  prayers  of  God's  people,  and  constraining  some 
even  of  the  adversaries  to  treat  the  cause  with  unwilling  respect. 
These  extracts  and  incidents  iave  been  selected  as  refer- 
ring to  different  localities,  in  order  to  show  how  widespread 
was  the  movement  which  then  pervaded  Scotland,  and  how 
deeply  the  questions  at  issue  were  felt  to  be  connected  with  the 
most  sacred  feelings  of  the  people.  As  the  struggle  went  on, 
it  became  obvious  to  very  many  men  of  the  truest  spiritual 
discernment  that  it  was  the  cause  of  Christ  itself  in  the  land 
which  was  at  stake ;  and  wherever  men's  minds  were  most 
earnest — wherever  religious  life  was  most  active,  there  the  con- 
viction was  deepest.  In  that  lay  the  secret  of  the  whole  move- 
ment which  took  so  many  by  surprise.  If  something  of  the 
fervour  of  old  covenanting  times  again  broke  forth,  it  was 
because  the  same  principles  were  believed  to  be  at  issue.  Once 
more  the  same  cause  had  taken  hold  of  the  heart  and  conscience 
of  Scotland,  and  that  with  a  force  in  many  cases  so  overpower- 
ing as  to  set  all  obstacles  at  defiance.  This,  as  we  shall  see, 
was  the  reason  why  the  movement  became  one  which  the  people 
to  so  large  an  extent  took  into  their  own  hands,  and  carried 
out  independently  of  the  ministers. 

But  while  the  revival  of  rehgious  life  prepared  men  for  the 
sacrifice,  it  yet  made  the  Disruption  more  painful,  in  so  far  as 
it  broke  up  many  of  those  parochial  and  home  mission  opera- 
tions into  which  they  had  thrown  themselves.  There  are  many 
published  biographies  which  are  full  of  the  details  of  such  work, 
but  one  or  two  examples  taken  from  the  Disruption  Mss.  may 
serve  further  to  illustrate  what  was  going  on. 

In  1820  the  Eev.  George  Davidson  was  ordained  at  Latheron, 
Caithness,  and  found  himself  the  minister  of  a  parish  covering 
850  square  miles,  with  8000  of  a  population.  For  several  years 
he  was  in  the  habit  of  preaching  four  sermons  and  travelling 
twenty  miles  every  Sabbath.  The  labour,  he  quietly  remarks 
"  was  perhaps  greater  than  could  long  have  been  borne ;"  and  he 
was  much  concerned  as  to  how  adequate  provision  could  be 
made  for  the  parish.  A  plan  of  church  extension  was  devised, 
and  vigorously  carried  out,  in  no  small  measure  on  his  own 
pecuniary  responsibility.      Sir  John  Sinclair,  he  mentions,  in  a 


RELIGIOUS  REVIVAL  A  PREPARATION,  15 

most  liberal  way  gave  his  assistance,  and,  he  adds,  "  I  received 
great  encouragement,  and  afterwards  aid,  from  the  eminent  Dr. 
Chalmers.  ...  I  sent  him  the  sketch  of  a  plan  by  which  I  pro- 
posed to  divide  this  large  parish,  extending  nearly  thirty  miles 
along  the  sea  coast,  into  manageable  districts,  five  in  number." 
How  this  object  was  attained  he  records,  and  the  result  was 
that  "the  year  1843  found  the  parish  possessed  of  five  distinct 
and  regularly  organised  congregations,  having  each  its  own 
minister,  elders,  teachers,  and  communicants." 

There  is  a  touch  of  sadness  when  he  comes  to  speak  of  the 
way  in  which  this  work  was  cut  short.  In  1842  he  was  busy 
with  the  last  of  these  chuiches — that  of  Dunbeath — when  "  a 
serious  obstacle  presented  itself ;  for  the  Church  question,  which 
was  for  several  years  depending  before  the  Civil  Courts,  had  just 
assumed  a  rather  alarming  aspect,  and  warned  us  to  cease  from 
building."  For  long  this  devoted  man  had  toiled  to  make  full 
provision  for  the  religious  wants  of  his  parish.  The  last  stone 
was  about  to  be  laid  on  the  structure,  and  he  went  to  Edinburgh 
in  May,  1843,  "  almost  hoping  against  hope — scarcely  believing 
that  the  Government  of  the  country  would  have  been  so  infatu- 
ated as  to  hazard  the  breaking  up  of  the  Establishment,  and  that 
some  relief  would  be  afforded  to  save  the  consciences  of  the 
evangelical  party,  at  least  at  the  eleventh  hour."  *  How  vain 
was  that  hope  he  was  destined  soon  to  learn. 

Beside  this  example  from  the  far  North,  we  may  place  the 
experience  of  Dr.  Eoxburgh,  then  at  Dundee.  He  had  been 
licensed  in  1831,  at  the  time  "when  Dr.  Chalmers'  labours  in 
the  cause  of  Church  extension  had  fired  the  young  preachers  of 
the  Church  with  a  portion  of  his  enthusiasm."  He  was  "one  of  six 
probationers  who  tendered  their  services  to  the  parish  ministers 
[of  Glasgow]  to  aid  them  in  the  supervision  of  the  neglected  and 
overgrown  population."  To  Dr.  Roxburgh  was  assigned  the 
Cowcaddens,  then  one  of  the  worst  localities  in  the  city,  where 
he  met  with  signal  success.  "  He  used  to  pride  himself  on  being 
the  first  parochial  missionary  in  the  Church  of  Scotland."  While 
acting  as  assistant  in  St.  George's,  Edinburgh,  he  "became  per- 
sonally acquainted  with  Dr.  Chalmers,  with  whom  he  had  much 

*  Dis.  Mss.,  Parish  of  Latheron,  pp.  2,  3. 


16  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISKUPTION. 

congenial  intercourse."  Accordingly,  on  being  settled  in  Dundee 
in  1834),  his  first  effort  was  in  the  direction  of  Church  extension. 
"  Finding  himself  burdened  witb  the  oversight  of  a  population 
of  about  9000  souls,  in  addition  to  the  families  of  his  flock,  he 
forthwith  set  Jiiniself  to  have  a  church  erected  in  the  west  end 
of  his  parish.  To  this  Mr.  M'Cheyne  was  appointed,  with 
whom,  until  the  day  of  his  death,  he  lived  in  habits  of  almost 
daily  and  most  cordial  co-operation.  The  Presbytery  of  Dundee 
(2nd  August,  1837),  having  formed  an  association  in  aid  of 
Church  extension  generally,  and  especially  within  their  own 
bounds,  appointed  Dr.  Eoxburgh  convener,  and  Mr.  M'Cheyne 
secretary.  .  .  .  The  town  and  parish  were  mapped  out  into 
districts  of  such  extent  and  population  as  appeared  to  form  a 
suitable  parochial  charge.  .  .  .  And  in  a  short  time  the  erections 
of  Dudhope  andWallacetown  Churches  in  some  measure  rewarded 
the  efforts  of  the  association."  Steps,  indeed,  were  taken  towards 
a  wider  circle  of  operation  by  means  of  an  association  for  the 
county.  "But  the  time  was  now  at  hand  when  all  these  and 
other  promising  efforts  for  the  religious  and  educational  well- 
being  of  the  country  began  to  be  paralysed,  and  were  ultimately 
brouofht  to  a  stand,  through  the  infatuated  conduct  of  the 
Government  in  resisting  the  righteous  claims  of  the  Church. 
From  the  first,  Mr.  Eoxburgh  was  an  ardent  defender  of  the 
Church's  spiritual  independence  and  the  rights  of  the  Christian 
people.  In  maintaining  the  controversy  in  which  these  high 
interests  were  involved,  he  greatly  valued  the  aid  derived  from 
the  earnest  spiritual  pleadings,  both  in  the  Presbytery  and  in 
public,  of  his  friend  and  brother,  Mr.  M'Cheyne,  wliose  devout 
mind  deeply  felt  how  much  the  interests  of  vital  godliness  were 
concerned  in  the  preservation  of  the  principles  for  which  the 
Church  was  contending."  * 

Examples  such  as  these,  which  it  would  be  easy  to  multiply, 
will  give  some  idea  of  the  kind  of  work  that  was  being  done, 
and  of  the  hopeful  prospects  which  the  Established  Church  then 
had  before  her. 

And  how,  then,  was  it  that  men  in  this  state  of  mind,  and 
zealously  engaged  in  such  work,  came  to  abandon  their  position 
*  Rev.  Dr.  Roxburgh,  Parker  Mss. 


EELIGIOUS  EEVIVAL  A  PEEPAKATION.  17 

within  the  Establishment,  and  to  face  all  the  sacrifices  of  the 
Disruption  ?  The  question  has  often  been  asked,  and  the  answer 
simply  is,  that  they  were  constrained  by  the  successive  attacks 
of  the  patrons,  and  the  encroachments  of  the  Civil  Courts.  The 
minds  both  of  ministers  and  people  were  gradually  awakened 
by  the  progress  of  events.  The  sacred  principles  involved 
became  from  time  to  time  clear,  in  view  of  what  was  actually 
taking  place.  Step  by  step — one  step  at  a  time — the  path  of 
duty  was  made  plain,  and  it  was  thus  by  the  hand  of  God  Him- 
self, in  the  leadings  of  His  Providence,  that  the  Church  was 
made  ready  for  the  final  crisis. 

Various  allusions  to  this  preparatory  process  occur  in  the 
Disruption  Mss.  "  As  the  battle  became  hotter,"  Mr.  Mackenzie, 
of  Farr,  states,  "  I  found  the  concern  for  the  prosperity  of 
Christ's  cause  was  getting  stronger,  especially  among  the  serious 
and  godly.  ...  I  had  frequent  demands  upon  me  for  communi- 
cating in  their  own  language  [the  Gaelic]  information  regarding 
the  causes  and  progress  of  the  struggle.  While  thus  preparing 
to  gratify  their  anxiety,  and  give  them  correct  information,  .  .  . 
I  obtained  a  closer  and  more  intimate  acquaintance  with  the 
subjects  for  my  own  satisfaction,  so  that  endeavouring  to  instruct 
my  people  in  this  remote  locality,  additional  light  was  darting 
daily  on  my  own  mind  as  to  the  line  of  my  duty  should  the 
State  carry  matters  so  far  as  they  ultimately  did."  * 

At  Collace,  Dr.  A.  Bonar  speaks  of  the  weekly  prayer  meet- 
ing, at  which,  "  as  the  events  of  our  Church's  history  became 
more  and  more  solemnising,  we  used  to  speak  of  them  and  pray 
over  them.  This  prepared  the  people  in  some  measure  for  the 
events  that  followed." -f* 

So  far  as  the  ministrations  of  the  pulpit  were  concerned,  there 
seems  to  have  been  little  of  what  has  been  called  preaching  to 
the  times,  but  as  public  attention  was  more  and  more  roused,  it 
became  impossible  to  avoid  all  reference  to  passing  events. 
For  the  most  part  this  seems  to  have  been  quietly  and  calmly 
done,  as  in  the  case  of  Dr.  Lorimer,  of  Glasgow.  "  In  regard  to 
preparations  for  the  Disruption,  I  am  disposed  to  account  the 
circumstance  of  my  having  for  some  time  before  been  lecturing 
*  Dis.  Mss.  XX.  p.  2.  t  Dis.  Mss.  xxi.  p.  1. 


18  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

through  the  Acts  of  the  Apostles  as  useful  to  myself  and  con- 
gregation in  the  prospect.  Thus  the  essential  principles  of  a 
Church  of  Christ,  the  heroic  spirit  of  the  early  Apostles  and 
teachers,  in  contending  with  the  encroachments  of  civil  authority, 
and  various  important  lessons  for  the  ministers  and  people,  were 
brought  out  in  a  guiet  way,  without  any  direct  allusion  to  our 
own  great  controversy.  The  hearers,  I  have  no  doubt,  saw  and 
made  the  application  for  themselves."  * 

In  other  cases  the  reference  was  more  distinctly  stated.  Mr. 
Thomson,  of  Muckhart,  as  clerk  of  the  Presbytery  of  Auchter- 
arder,  was  from  the  first  in  the  thick  of  the  fight.  Yet, 
"personally,"  he  says,  "strife  and  dissension  was  always  some- 
thing from  which  I  shrank — over-sensitively  shrank.  While 
some  of  my  brethren  had  held  meeting  after  meeting,  ...  I  had 
contented  myself  with  merely  circulating  tracts.  This  state  of 
matters  had  continued  till  near  the  end  of  1842,  when,  for  the 
greater  part  of  a  week,  I  could  fix  on  no  subject  on  which  I 
might  discourse  to  my  people  on  the  Sabbath.  I  turned  over 
in  my  mind  text  after  text,  but  I  felt  that  I  could  not  break 
ground  at  all.  Friday  passed  over,  and  it  was  still  the  same. 
Saturday  forenoon  passed,  .  .  .  until  about  seven  o'clock  in 
the  evening,  and  I  was  concluding  that  I  must  take  up  some 
old  sermon,  which  I  was  very  unwilling  to  do.  .  .  .  In  these 
circumstances,  in  almost  hopelessly  turning  over  the  Bible,  the 
book  of  Daniel  opened  before  me,  and  it  occurred  to  me  that 
even  yet  I  might  obtain  some  fresh  and  profitable  materials  in 
Daniel's  conduct.  .  .  .  The  subject  with  great  rapidity  opened 
itself  before  nie  with  an  unusual  vividness  ;  and  (to  me)  in  an 
incredibly  short  sj^ace  of  time,  the  whole  materials  of  the 
discourse  were  collected  and  arranged.  1  saw  it  was  to  lead 
me  to  a  full  explanation  of  our  position,  duty,  and  prospects, 
whether  as  office-bearers  or  as  individuals,  in  reference  to  our 
present  difficulties.  I  was  disposed  to  shrink  from  it.  I  felt, 
however,  completely  shut  up  to  it,  and  was  impressed  with  the 
feeling  that  it  was  the  call  of  God;  and  after  some  little  struggle 
at  thus  throwing  myself  into  the  field  of  controversy,  I  pro- 
ceeded with  the  preparation  of  the  discourse.  I  was  led,  first, 
*  Dis.  Mss.  i.  p.  2. 


RELIGIOUS  REVIVAL  A  PREPARATION.  19 

to  advert  to  the  snare  or  temptation  in  the  way  of  the  prophet, 
to  obey  man  rather  than  God,  or  evil,  apparently,  would  be 
the  consequence  :  the  loss  of  station,  power,  influence — ruin, 
utter  ruin  ;  secondly,  his  conduct  under  temptation — calmly, 
resolutely,  without  hedging,  without  hesitation,  without  hanker- 
ing, doing  his  duty;  and  thirdly,  the  consequences  that  resulted 
from  the  line  of  conduct  he  followed — the  trial  not  altogether 
averted — the  triumphant  issue  out  of  it — the  ruin  brought  on 
his  enemies,  and,  ultimately,  the  declarative  glory  of  God  greatly 
promoted.  All  this  I  was  led  to  apply  to  the  circumstances  of 
the  Church  with  considerable  enlargement  and  solemnity  of 
mind,  and  never,  perhaps,  did  I  see  my  people  more  solemnised 
and  deeply  impressed.  From  that  tiaie,  I  believe,  may  be 
dated  the  determination  of  many  of  them  to  cast  in  their  lot 
with  us."  * 

Dis.  Mss.  xxviii.  pp.  3-6. 


20  ANKALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 


III.  Non-Intrusion  Conflict. 

Here  it  may  be  right  to  recount  briefly  the  leading  events  of 
the  conflict,  and  to  point  out  the  great  principles  which  came  to 
be  involved. 

In  1834,  the  Church  resolved  that  her  Christian  people 
should  have  an  effective  voice  in  the  calling  of  their  pastors. 
On  every  vacancy  the  wishes  of  the  congregations  were  to  be 
effectually  considered.  This  had,  indeed,  from  the  first,  been 
the  princii^le  of  the  Church  of  Scotland,  and  it  was  still  part  of 
her  constitution,  according  to  the  opinion  of  the  highest  legal 
authorities  who  were  consulted,  among  others  the  Crown  lawyers 
for  the  time.  And  so  the  Act  on  Calls — the  Veto  Act — was 
passed  by  the  Church  in  the  full  belief  that  it  was  in  accordance 
with   the   mind   of  Christ,  was   legally   within   her   powers,* 

*  The  highest  legal  authorities  in  England  were  as  decided  as  those 
in  Scotland.  The  day  after  the  Veto  Act  was  passed,  Lord  Campbell 
(then  Sir  John  Campbell)  addressed  a  meeting  in  Edinburgh,  and  gave 
his  opinion  in  explicit  terms  :  "  I  rejoice  to  think  that  not  many  hours 
since  a  law  has  gone  forth  from  the  General  Assembly  which  may  have, 
under  the  blessing  of  Providence,  the  effect  of  reforming  the  Church  of 
Scotland,  and  bringing  it  back  to  the  standard  of  its  former  purity,  and 
removing  from  it  every  objection  and  complaint.  By  a  majority  of  46 
last  night  Lord  Moncreiff's  motion  was  carried." — Quoted  in  Witness. 
13th  April,  1842.  A  few  weeks  afterwards  Lord  Brougham,  in  the  House 
of  Lords,  took  occasion  to  say  ;  "  The  late  proceedings  in  the  General 
Assembly  have  done  more  to  facilitate  the  adoption  of  measures  which 
shall  set  that  important  question  [Patronage]  at  rest,  upon  a  footing 
advantageous  to  the  community,  and  that  shall  be  safe  and  beneficial  to 
the  Establishment,  and  in  every  respect  desirable,  than  any  other  course 
that  could  have  been  taken." — Mirror  of  Parliament.  These  statements 
are  not  quoted  here  for  the  purpose  of  comparing  what  the  learned  Lords 


NON-INTRUSION  CONFLICT,  21 

and  would  conduce  to  the  best  interests  of  the  people.  Un- 
acceptable ministers  were  no  longer  to  be  thrust  on  unwilling 
congregations. 

It  was  in  the  autumn  of  that  same  year  (1834),  that  the  import- 
ant parish  of  Auchterarder,  pleasantly  situated  at  the  foot  of  the 
Ochils,  became  vacant,  and  Lord  Kinnoul,  the  patron,  on  the 
14th  of  October,  presented  to  the  living,  Mr.  Robert  Young,  a 
preacher  of  the  Gospel.  The  people  had  the  usual  opportunity 
of  testing  his  ministerial  qualifications,  but  their  opinion  was  so 
adverse,  that  out  of  a  population  of  8000,  only  two  individuals, 
Michael  Tod  and  Peter  Clark,  could  be  found  to  express  appro- 
bation by  signing  the  call.  Five-sixths  of  the  congregation,  on 
the  other  hand,  came  forward  solemnly  to  protest  against  his 
settlement.  The  Church,  accordingly,  found  that  they  could 
not  proceed  to  his  ordination  at  Auchterarder,  and  the  patron 
was  requested  to  make  another  appointment. 

Unfortunately,  this  was  not  done.  Lord  Kinnoul-  and  his 
presentee  resolved  to  carry  the  case  into  the  Civil  Courts,  and 
after  the  usual  preliminary  delays,  the  pleadings  began  in 
November,  1837.  On  the  8th  of  March,  the  sentence  of  the 
Court  was  pronounced  adverse  to  the  Church  and  the  Christian 
people.  It  was  decreed  that  in  the  settlement  of  pastors  the 
Church  must  have  no  regard  to  the  feelings  of  the  congregation. 
The  trials  of  the  presentee  must  be  proceeded  with  in  order  to 
ordination,  just  as  if  the  refusal  of  the  people  had  not  been  given. 
To  ward  off,  if  possible,  from  the  Established  Church  the 
consequences  of  this  decision,  the  case  was  appealed  to  the 
House  of  Lords,  where  the  pleadings  were  heard  in  March, 
1839,  and  the  decision  given  on  2iid  May  of  that  year.  The 
sentence  of  the  Scottish  Court  was  confirmed!  The  wishes  of 
Christian  congregations  were  to  be  considered  of  no  value  in 
any  way,  and  Lord  Brougham,  in  order  to  make  his  meaning 

then  said  with  what  they  afterwards  did — though,  certainly,  the  contra.st 
is  sufficiently  striking.  The  reader  is  merely  asked  to  observe  what  good 
reason  the  Church  had  to  believe  that  the  Veto  Act  was  within  her  com- 
petency when  such  authorities  were  so  profuse  in  their  congratulations, 
without  once  hinting  a  doubt  as  to  the  legality  of  the  course  that  haij 
been  taken. 


22  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

plain,  introduced  a  simile  which  attracted  much  attention  in 
Scotland.  Alluding  to  the  fact  that  when  the  Sovereign  of 
Britain  is  crowned  in  Westminster  Abbey,  one  of  the  corona- 
tion ceremonies  is  the  appearance  of  a  champion  on  horseback, 
his  Lordship  remarked  that  as  no  one  could  suppose  that  the 
recalcitration  of  the  champion's  horse  could  invalidate  the  act 
of  coronation,  so  the  protest  of  a  reluctant  congregation  against 
an  unacceptable  presentee  would  be  equally  unavailing.  The 
solemnly  declared  judgment  of  a  Christian  congregation  would 
have  as  little  value  as  the  kick  of  the  champion's  horse. 

Such  a  decision,  so  explained,  was  sufficiently  startling ;  but 
as  if  to  make  the  matter  yet  more  plain,  the  case  of  Auchterarder 
was  followed  by  those  of  Lethendy  and  Marnoch.* 

At  Lethendy  the  people  had  rejected  Mr.  Clark,  the  presentee, 
an  unhappy  man,  who  subsequently  gave  himself  up  to  drunken- 
nes.s.  The  patron  and  the  Presbytery  had  agreed  to  settle,  and 
actually  did  settle,  another  preacher  in  the  pastoral  charge  ; 
but  Mr,  Clark  dragged  the  Presbytery  into  the  Court  of  Session, 
when  certain  proceedings  took  place  to  which  we  shall  after- 
wards refer. 

The  case  of  Marnoch,  Strathbogie,  deserves  special  attention. 
It  was  in  1837  that  the  vacancy  occurred,  and  Mr.  Edwards,  a 
preacher  of  the  Gospel,  was  presented  to  the  living.  For  three 
years  hs  had  officiated  in  the  church  as  assistant  to  the  former 
minister,  and  the  parishioners  knew  him  only  too  well — so 
well,  that  only  one  man,  Peter  Taylor,  the  innkeeper,  signed 
his  call,  while  six-sevenths  of  the  congregation  actively  opposed, 
his  settlement.    In  May,  1838,  he  was  set  aside  by  the  Church. 

As  in  the  former  cases,  Mr.  Edwards  appealed  to  the  Civil 
Courts,  and  in  June,  1839,  a  decision  was  given  to  the  same 
eflFect  as  before.  No  regard  was  to  be  liad  to  any  opinions  or 
feelings  of  the  parishioners. 

*  It  must  not  be  inferred  from  these  cases  that  the  veto  was  often 
exercised.  Patrons,  for  the  most  part,  were  careful ;  and  of  the  150 
vacancies  which  took  place  during  the  five  years  following  1834,  it  is 
stated  that  there  were  about  140  where  the  settlements  were  harmonious. 
Even  the  adversaries  of  the  law  began  to  praise  it.  The  people  were  not 
willing  generally  to  object,  unless  the  reasons  were  supposed  to  be  strong. 


NON-INTEUSION  CONFLICT.  23 

At  Marnocb,  however,  a  new  feature  came  into  view.  The 
majority  of  the  Presbytery  belonged  to  that  party  of  IModevates 
in  the  Church  who  ao;reed  with  the  Civil  Courts  in  wishino-  to 
retain  the  power  of  intruding  presentees  on  unwilling  congrega- 
tions ;  and  so,  when  the  Court  of  Session  ordered  the  settlement 
of  Mr.  Edwards  to  go  forward,  they  readily  lent  themselves  to 
the  work  The  supreme  Courts  of  the  Church  %yere  obliged  to 
interfere,  and  this  they  did  in  the  most  decisive  way.  At  the 
rising  of  the  Assembly  in  1839,  the  Commission  of  that  Court 
expressly  prohibited  the  Presbytery  of  Strathbogie  from  taking 
any  steps  towards  the  settlement  of  Mr,  Edwards.  It  soon 
appeared,  however,  that  the  majority  of  that  Court  were  re- 
solved to  ignore  the  prohibition ;  and  this  having  been  formally 
brought  before  the  Commission  at  its  next  meeting,  the  Mode- 
rate  majority  of  the  Presbytery  were  suspended  from  their  office 
as  ministers  of  the  Church,  and  prohibited  from  all  acts,  minis- 
terial or  judicial.  This  was  done  because  they  would  give  no 
promise  to  refrain  from  the  intrusion  of  Mr.  Edwards,  and 
because  the  Church  was  resolved  to  protect  the  people  from 
such  intrusion. 

It  might  have  been  expected  that  ministers  of  the  Gospel, 
who  had  at  their  ordination  vowed  obedience  to  their  eccle- 
siastical superiors,  would  have  respected  their  vows.  But  their 
desire  to  obey  the  Court  of  Session,  and  carry  out  the  forced 
settlement,  prevailed.  In  breach  of  their  sacred  engagenients, 
they  resolved  to  meet  at  Marnoch  on  the  21st  of  January,  1841  ; 
and  the  striking  scene  which  then  took  place  will  not  soon  be 
forgotten. 

The  snows  of  mid- winter  lay  deep  on  the  ground,  but  when 
the  seven  Strathbogie  ministers  met  at  the  church,  2000  people 
were  gathered  around  and  within  it.  No  sooner  had  the  pre- 
tended Presbytery  taken  their  places  than  a  solemn  protest 
was  handed  in  by  the  parishioners  against  the  deed  that  was 
about  to  be  done.  "  We  earnestly  beg  you  ...  to  avoid 
the  desecration  of  the  ordinance  of  ordination  under  the  cir- 
cumstances ;  but  if  you  shall  disregard  this  representation,  we 
do  solemnly,  and  as  in  the  presence  of  the  great  and  only 
Head  of  the  Church,  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  repudiate  and  dis- 


24  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 

own  the  pretended  ordination  of  Mr.  Edwards,  and  his  pre- 
tended settlement  as  minister  of  Marnoch.  We  delibe^tely 
declare  that,  if  such  proceedings-  could  have  any  effect,  they 
must  involve  the  most  heinous  guilt  and  fearful  responsibility 
in  reference  to  -  the' dishonour  done  to  religion,  and  the  cruel 
injury  to  the  spiritual  interests  of  a  united  Christian  congrega- 
tion." Having  delivered  this  protest,  it  was  intimated,  the 
people  would  leave  them  to  force  a  minister  on  the  parish, 
with  scarcely  one  of  the  parishioners  to  witness  the  deed. 

"  The  scene  that  followed,  was  indeed  touching  and  impressive. 
In  a  body  the  parishioners  rose,  and,  gathering  up  the  Bibles" 
which  some  of  them  had  been  wont  to  leave,  for  long  yearb, 
from  Sabbath  to  Sabbath  in  the  pews,  they  silently  retired. 
"The  deep  emotion  that  prevailed  among  them  was  visible  in 
the  tears  which  might  be  seen  trickling  down  many  an  old 
man's  cheek,  and  in  the  flush,  more  of  sorrow  than  of  anger, 
that  reddened  many  a  younger  man's  brow.  '  We  never  wit- 
nessed,' said  an  onlooker,*  '  a  scene  bearing  the  slightest  resem- 
blance to  this  protest  of  the  people,  or  approaching  in  the 
slightest  degree  to  the  moral  beauty  of  their  withdrawal ;  for, 
stern  though  its  features  "were,  they  were  also  sublime.  No 
word  of  disrespect  or  reproach  escaped  them ;  they  went  away 
in  a  strong  conviction  that  their  cause  was  with  the  Most  Power- 
ful, and  that  with  Him  rested  the  redress  of  all  their  wrong. 
Even  the  callous-hearted  people  that  sat  in  the  pew,  the  only 
pew  representing  intrusionism  and  forced  settlements,  were 
moved — they  were  awed ;  and  the  hearts  of  some  of  them 
appeared  to  give  way.  "  Will  they  all  leave  ?"  we  heard  some  of 
them  whispering.  Yes;  they  all  left,  never  to  return  until  the 
temple  is  purified  again,  and  the  buyers  and  sellers — the  traf- 
fickers in  religion — are  driven  from  the  house  of  God.     TiiEY 

ALL  LEFT."'f 

In  this  way  it  was  that  the  course  of  events  did  more  than 
anything  else  to  open  men's  eyes  to  the  great  principle  of  Non- 
intrusion. During  the  whole  of  the  Church's  history  it  had 
been  held  that  the  call  of  the  people  was  essential  before  a 

*  Mr.  Troup,  of  the  Aberdeen  Banv^r  newrfpuper. 
S-  Ten  Years'  Conflict,  ii.  198. 


NON-INTEUSION  COKFLICT.  25 

minister  could  be  settled.  The  congregation  must  invite  before 
the  Presbytery  could  ordain.  Here  were  cases,  however,  one 
after  another,  in  which  the  parishioners  were  virtually  unani- 
mous in  their  opposition  to  the  presentee.  Was  the  call,  then, 
to  be  treated  as  a  mockery  ?  Were  the  Michael  Tods  and  the 
Peter  Taylors  of  Scotland  to  overbear  the  whole  Christiat  people 
of  united  parishes  ?  Was  it  to  be  tolerated  that,  the  members 
of  Christian  congregations  must  submit  to  have  obnoxious  pre- 
sentees forced  on  them  ?  Surely  it  is  not  to  be  wondered  at 
that  so  large  a  body  of  the  ministers  and  members  of  the 
Church  should  have  felt  that  these  proceedings  could  not  be 
in  accordance  with  the  mind  of  Christ,  and  should  have  deter- 
mined that  in  such  settlements  they  must  at  all  hazards  refuse 
to  take  part. 


26  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 


IV.  Struggle  for  Spiritual  Independence. 

At  this  point,  however,  there  came  into  the  field  the  still 
more  formidable  question  of  Spiritual  Independence,  which  was 
destined  to  act  with  such  decisive  eflPect  on  the  issues  of  the 
conflict.  As  Spiritual  Independence  is  the  distinctive  principle 
on  which  the  Free  Church  has  taken  her  stand  before  the 
country,  it  is  right  that  we  should  retrace  the  course  of  events, 
and  mark  the  steps  by  which  the  great  truth  on  this  subject 
was  brought  into  prominence. 

But  there  is  one  general  explanation  which  seems  to  be  called 
for  at  the  outset.  Many  persons  object  altogether  to  Churcli 
Establishments  on  the  ground  that  if  the  Church  accept  the  pay 
of  the  State,  she  must,  in  some  degree,  yield  her  spiritual 
authority  to  be  controlled  by  the  State.  On  behalf  of  the 
Church  of  Scotland  this  was  all  along  resolutely  denied.  The 
Church,  though  allied  to  the  State,  was  in  this  honourable 
position,  that  she  had  the  aid  and  support  of  Government  in 
all  Christian  work,  while  she  retained  her  uncontrolled  spiritual 
freedom,  and  independence  of  action.  This  view  Dr.  Chalmers 
proclaimed  in  London,  amid  the  universal  applause  of  all  our 
leading  public  men,  both  in  Church  and  State,  so  late  as  1838. 
"  It  should  never  be  forgotten,  that  in  things  ecclesiastical,  the 
highest  power  of  our  Church  is  amenable  to  no  iiigher  power 
on  earth  for  its  decisions.  It  can  exclude,  it  can  deprive,  it  can 
depose,  at  pleasure.  External  force  might  make  an  obnoxious 
individual  the  holder  of  a  benefice,  but  there  is  no  external  force 
in  these  realms  that  could  make  him  a  minister  of  the  Church 
of  Scotland.  There  is  nothing  which  the  State  can  do  to  our 
independent  and  indestructible  Church,  but  strip  her  of  her 
temporalities  :  nee  tamen  cotisumehaiur :  she  would  remain  a 
Church  notwithstanding,  as  strong  a.s  ever  in  the  props  of  her 


STKUGGLE  FOR  SPIRITUAL  INDEPENDENCE.  27 

own  moral  and  inherent  greatness.  And  though  shrivelled  in 
all  her  dimensions,  by  the  moral  injury  inflicted  on  many 
thousands  of  fiimilies,  she  would  be  at  least  as  strong  as  ever  in 
the  reverence  of  her  country's  population.  She  vsras  as  much  a 
Church  in  her  days  of  suffering  as  in  her  days  of  outward 
security  and  triumph — when  a  wandering  outcast  with  nothing 
but  the  mountain  breezes  to  play  around  her,  and  nought  but 
the  caves  of  the  earth  to  shelter  her — as  now  when  admitted  to 
the  bowers  of  an  Establishment.  The  magistrate  might  with- 
draw his  protection,  and  she  cease  to  be  an  Establishment  any 
longer,  but,  in  all  the  high  matters  of  sacred  and  spiritual  juris- 
diction, she  would  be  the  same  as  before.  With  or  without  an 
Establishment,  she,  in  these,  is  the  unfettered  mistress  of  her 
doings.  The  King,  by  himself  or  his  representative,  might  be 
the  spectator  of  our  proceedings,  but  what  Lord  Chatham  said 
of  tlie  poor  man's  house  is  true  in  all  its  parts  of  the  Church  to 
which  I  have  the  honour  to  belong  :  '  In  England  every  man's 
house  is  his  castle.'  Not  that  it  is  surrounded  with  walls  and 
battlements,  it  may  be  a  straw-built  shed.  Every  wind  of 
heaven  may  whistle  round  it,  every  element  of  heaven  may 
enter  it ;  but  the  king  cannot — the  king  dare  not."  * 

Now,  what  really  brought  about  the  Disruption  was  the  fact 
that  the  civil  authorities  of  the  country  adopted  and  enforced 
the  opposite  view,  holding,  with  those  advocates  of  disestablish- 
ment, that  Government  connection  infers  civil  control  over  the 
Church  in  her  own  proper  functions.  At  the  very  crisis  of  the 
contest,  on  the  11th  of  August,  1842,  Lord  Campbell,  in  the 

*  Nine  bishops  of  the  Church  of  England  attended  the  lecture  from 
which  the  above  extract  is  taken.  An  American  traveller — the  Eev.  Dr. 
Clark — who  was  present,  dwells  with  delight  on  the  sight  of  so  many 
dukes,  marquises,  earls,  viscounts,  &c.,  in  the  audience.  Dr.  Chalmers 
was  seated  at  a  table  while  reading  the  lecture,  but  at  the  more  emphatic 
passages  he  rose  to  his  feet,  the  audience  in  their  enthusiasm  rising  with 
hun, "  waving  their  hats  above  their  heads,  and  breaking  into  tumultuous 
approbation."  Dr.  Begg  was  beside  him  on  the  platform,  and  states  that 
in  delivering  the  above  passage,  the  words,  "  the  king  cannot — the  king 
dare  not,"  were  uttered  in  accents  of  prophetic  vehemence  .  .  .  and  were 
responded  to  by  a  whirlwind  of  enthusiasm,  which  was  probably  never  ex- 
ceeded in  the  history  of  eloquence. — Memoirs  of  Dr.  Chalmers,  iv.  38,  39. 


28  ANXALS  OF  THE  DISKUPTION. 

House  of  Lords,  spoke  the  mind  of  the  Judges  :*  "  While  the 
appellants  remain  members  of  the  Establishment,  they  are,  in 
addition  to  their  sacred  character^  public  functionaries  appointed 
and  paid  by  the  State  ;  and  they  must  perform  the  duties  which 
the  law  of  thfr  land  imposes  upon  them.  It  is  only  a  voluntary 
body,  such  as  the  Kelief  or  Burgher  Church  in  Scotland,  self- 
founded,  and  self-supported,  that  can  say  they  will  be  entirely 
governed  by  their  own  rules/'f 

No  less  clearly  did  Sir  Eobert  Peel  state  the  views  held  at 
the  time  by  the  statesmen  of  the  country  in  the  year  following 
the  Disruption :  "  I  think  it  of  the  greatest  importance  that  the 
spiritual  authority  of  the  Church  should  be  restrained,  as  it  is 
restrained  and  made  subordinate  to  Parliament," 

These  statements  were  not  the  mere  unguarded  utterances  of 
the  moment ;  they  really  embodied  a  theory  definitely  held,  and 
carried  out,  as  the  only  theory  on  which  the  Church  of  Scotland 
could  be  continued  as  an  Establishment,  But  how  utterly  repug- 
nant such  views  were  both  to  the  ministers  and  laymen  of  our 
country  need  not  be  said.  They  held,  as  their  fathers  had  done, 
that  no  Church  had  the  right,  for  any  earthly  consideration,  to 
barter  away  that  sacred  authority  in  things  spiritual  which 
Christ  had  given  her  in  trust,  and  which  she  must  retain  and 
administer  as  responsible  to  Him  alone. 

What  brought  these  opposite  views  into  conflict  was  the 
question  as  to  forming  the  pastoral  tie  in  such  cases  as  Auchter- 
arder.  When  the  Judges  decided,  as  we  have  seen,  that  un- 
acceptable ministers  must  be  forced  on  unwilling  parishes,  it 
followed  that  the  Church  must  ordain  them,  for  not  otherwise 
could  they  get  the  living.  The  views  of  the  court  therefore 
were  decided.  The  Church  must  go  on  to  examine  Mr.  Young 
with  a  view  to  his  settlement — i.e.,  his  ordination.  The  Church 
replied,  that  she  had  already  ascertained  there  was  a  fatal  bar 
to  ordination.  It  was  in  vain  that  the  Lords  of  Session  decreed 
the  refusal  of  the  people  to  be  no  obstacle.     The  Church  held 

*   Witness  Newspaper,  13tli  August,  1842. 

t  It  ought  to  be  observed  that  this  view  of  the  freedom  of  Non- 
conformist Churches  is  practically  the  same  with  that  which  was  adopted 
by  the  Court  of  Session  in  finally  deciding  the  Cardross  Case,  in  1863. 


STRUGGLE  FOR  SPIRITUAL  INDEPENDENCE.  29 

that  to  ordain  a  minister  over  a  conc:jreo;ation  who  refused  him 
would  be  to  desecrate  the  ordinance  and  sin  against  the  mind 
of  Christ. 

And  what,  then,  was  to  be  done  ?  At  once  the  question  arose 
— Had  the  Church  of   Scotland,  because  Established, 

LOST  the  right  TO  BE  GUIDED  BY  HER  OWN  CONSCIENTIOUS 
C(3NVICTI0NS  ON  A  MATTER  SO  OBVIOUSLY  SPIRITUAL  AS  THE 
FORMING  OF  THE  PASTORAL  TIE  ?  Men  stood  forth  at  once  to 
repudiate  the  idea.  The  Spiritual  Independence  of  the  Church 
was  proclaimed.  The  fact  was  appealed  to,  that  in  her  Stan- 
dards, ratified  by  the  State,  it  was  written  as  plainly  as  words 
could  express  it,  that  the  Church  Courts  were  supreme  in  things 
spiritual,  as  surely  as  the  Civil  Courts  in  things  civil.  The  sole 
Headship  of  Christ,  His  Crown-rights  as  Redeemer,  the  duty  of 
undivided  allegiance  to  Him,  became  the  watchwords  of  a  mo- 
mentous struggle.  But  though  the  point  at  issue  thus  inevitably 
involved  questions  of  the  deepest  sacredness,  yet  the  matter 
itself  was  plain  and  simple.  Were  the  Civil  Courts,  on  account 
of  the  stipend,  entitled  to  put  a  force  on  the  conscience  of  the 
Church  in  such  a  thing  as  the  forming  of  the  pastoral  tie  ? 
Must  she,  at  their  bidding,  break  through  what  she  held  to  be 
the  law  of  her  Divine  Master  ?  Unlike  the  Church  of  Rome, 
she  made  no  claim  to  infallibility — only  that,  having  done  her 
best  to  ascertain  her  duty  to  Christ,  she  must  be  allowed,  in 
this  spiritual  matter,  faithfully  to  follow  out  her  convictions. 
Unlike  the  Church  of  Rome,  she  pretended  to  no  right  to  impose 
her  views  on  the  Civil  Courts,  or  to  interfere  with  their  inde- 
pendent jurisdiction.  It  lay  with  them  to  judge  and  dispose  of 
all  civil  interests  which  might  be  involved.  But  the  responsi- 
bility of  things  spiritual,  which  she  had  herself  to  carry  out, 
must  be  left  in  her  hands. 

This  was  the  whole  claim  of  the  Church  to  Spiritual  Inde- 
pendence ;  and  surely  it  is  not  to  be  wondered  at  if  men  held 
that  no  secular  judge  ought  to  have  the  power  to  force  the  con- 
science of  the  Church  in  things  spiritual. 

To  the  sacredness  of  this  principle  the  Scottish  mind  has  all 
along  from  of  old  been  keenly  alive.  It  surprised  Bishop 
Burnet  and  his  friends  to  find  in  Scotland  "  a  poor  commonalty 


30  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

capable  to  argue  upon  points  of  government,  and  on  the  bounds 
to  be  set  to  the  power  of  princes  in  matters  of  religion."  It 
has  astonished  many  a  reader  to  find  Andrew  IMelville,  in  the 
previous  century,  at  the  Scottish  Court,  boldly  confronting  his 
sovereign  with  the  declaration :  "  I  must  tell  you  there  are  two 
kings  and  two  kingdoms  in  Scotland :  there  is  King  James,  the 
head  of  this  commonwealth ;  and  there  is  Christ  Jesus,  the 
Head  of  the  Church,  whose  subject  James  the  Sixth  is,  and 
of  whose  kingdom  he  is  not  a  king,  nor  a  lord,  nor  a  head, 
but  a  member."  Of  our  martyrs  not  a  few  suflFered  imprison- 
ment and  death  with  that  very  confession  on  their  lips.  And 
here,  amidst  the  keen  contendings  of  the  Ten  Years'  Conflict,  the 
same  truth  was  once  more  coming  to  the  front,  and  that  with 
such  resistless  power  as  ultimately  at  the  Disruption  to  rend 
asunder  Church  and  State.* 

With  this  general  explanation,  we  return  to  the  course 
of  events ;  for  it  was  only  by  the  hard  logic  of  actual  facts 
that,  step  by  step,  the  truth  as  to  spiritual  independence  was 
brought  up  and  forced  anew  practically  on  the  uund  of  the 
Church. 

So  early  as  1838  there  were  signs  of  what  was  coming.  In 
deciding  the  Auchterarder  case,  not  only  had  it  been  broadly 
stated  from  the  bench  that  the  Church  of  Scotland  was  the 
creature  of  the  State,  but  the  general  principles  of  law  on  which 
the  Court  proceeded  were  felt  to  have  struck  a  heavy  blow  at 
her  spiritual  liberties.  Men  took  alarm.  Within  two  months 
the  General  Assembly  was  to  meet ;  and  at  once,  from  all  parts 
of  the  country,  overtures  were  sent  up  calling  on  that  Court  to 
stand  firm.  And  very  remarkably  was  that  appeal  responded 
to.  when  Dr.  R.  Buchanan  presented  himself  on  the  floor  of  the 

*  It  iiiny  he  worth  while  to  give  a  sentence  from  John  Welsh,  of  Ayr, 
the  son-in-law  of  John  Knox.  From  his  prison  at  Blackness  he  wrote 
the  Countess  of  Wigton,  in  1G05  :  "  These  two  points— /rs<,  That  Christ 
is  the  Head  of  JJis  Church ;  secondly,  That  she  is  free  in  her  government 
from  all  other  jurisdiction  except  Christ's — these  two  points,  I  say,  are 
the  special  cause  of  our  imprisonment,  being  now  convicted  as  traitors  for 
the  maintaining  thereof." — History  of  INIr.  John  Welsh,  Wodrow  Soc. 
Select  Biographies,  vol.  i.  p.  23.  What  else  than  this  did  the  Free  Church 
assign  in  1843  as  the  ground  of  the  Disruption  ? 


STKUGGLE  FOR  SPIRITUAL  INDEPENDENCE.  31 

Assembly  to  move  the  Independence  Resolutions,  and  take  his 
destined  place  in  the  councils  of  the  Church.  "  Spiritual 
independence,"  he  showed,  "  was  familiar  to  the  mind  of  Scot- 
land, inscribed  not  unfrequently,  in  characters  of  blood,  on 
many  of  the  brightest  and  most  memorable  pages  of  our  eccle- 
siastical history.  Like  some  ancient  banner  which  had  been 
borne  in  triumph  through  many  a  hard-fought  field,  it  hung, 
honoured  and  venerated,  within  our  Church's  armoury."  But 
there  were  indications  that  the  time  had  come  when  we  should 
be  "  shaking  the  dust  from  its  folds,  and  flinging  it  again 
abroad  to  the  winds  of  heaven."  Thus  the  memorable  debate 
of  23rd  May  was  opened,  and  it  ended  in  a  resolution  giving 
no  uncertain  sound.  By  a  decisive  majority  the  Assembly 
declared  that  the  supremacy  and  sole  headship  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  and  the  spiritual  jurisdiction  which  depends 
thereon,  "  they  will  assert,  and  at  all  hazards  defend,  by  the 
help  and  blessing  of  that  great  God  who  in  the  days  of  old 
enabled  their  fathers,  amid  manifold  persecutions,  to  maintain 
a  testimony  even  to  the  death  for  Christ's  kingdom  and  crown." 

During  the  year  which  followed,  the  House  of  Lords  (May, 
1839)  gave  their  decision,  already  referred  to,  in  the  Auchter- 
arder  case ;  and  on  that  occasion  there  had  been  some  remark- 
ably plain  speaking.  Sir  Frederick  Pollock,  counsel  for  the 
Church,  had  thought  it  right  to  intimate  to  their  Lordships 
that  if  their  decision  were  adverse,  it  could  not  be  complied  with 
in  its  spiritual  efl"ects ;  and  Lord  Brougham,  when  decree  was 
pronounced,  referred  to  this  statement :  "  My  Lords,  it  is  inde- 
cent to  suppose  any  such  case.  You  might  as  well  suppose 
that  Doctors'  Commons  would  refuse  to  attend  to  a  prohibition 
from  the  Court  of  Queen's  Bench  ;  you  might  as  well  suppose 
that  the  Court  of  Session,  when  you  remit  a  cause  with  orders 
to  alter  the  judgment,  would  refuse  to  alter  it."  His  Lordship, 
like  all  who  hold  Erastian  views,  had  forgot  the  difference  be- 
tween the  civil  and  the  spiritual,  the  allegiance  due  to  Caesar 
and  the  allegiance  due  to  God. 

Within  a  fortnight,  however,  the  General  Assembly  again 
met,  and  that  distinction  was  held  forth  before  the  country  by 
one  to  whom  all  men  gave  heed.     A  resolution,  moved  by  Dr. 


32  ANXALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION, 

Chalmers,  was  passed  by  a  triumphant  majority,  pledging  the 
Onurch  implicitly  to  obey  the  Civil  Courts  in  all  matters  of 
civil  interest,  but  firmly  refusing^ their  control  in  things  spiritual. 

A  collision  was  now  inevitable.  The  Church  would  loyally 
support  the  authority  of  the  judges  in  their  own  civil  depart- 
ment, but  in  a  spiritual  matter  like  the  settlement  of  a  pastor — 
i.e.,  ordination — she  could  bow  to  no  authority  but  the  law  of 
her  Lord.  In  the  years  that  followed,  it  was  in  vain  that  this 
position  was  assailed  from  the  bench  by  decision  after  decision, 
and  interdict  after  interdict.  The  Church  had  taken  her  ground, 
and  with  unswerving  fidelity,  amid  conflicts  and  sacrifices,  she 
was  enabled  to  hold  it  to  the  end. 

The  first  testing  case  was  that  of  Lethendy,  where  the  Pres- 
bytery of  Dunkeld  found  themselves  within  the  grasp  of  the 
Court  of  Session,  and  placed  as  culprits  at  the  bar.  Mr.  Clark, 
the  presentee,  as  already  stated,  had  proved  unacceptable  to  the 
people,  owing  to  his  preaching,  and  for  other  reasons.  He  had 
been  set  aside,  and  the  patron  had  presented  another  in  his 
room,  Mr.  Kessen,  whom  the  people  welcomed,  and  the  Presby- 
tery were  preparing  to  ordain.  Meanwhile,  Mr.  Clark  stepped 
forward  to  claim  what  he  called  his  rights,  applied  to  the  civil 
judges,  and  obtained  an  interdict  prohibiting  the  Presbytery 
from  proceeding  to  ordain  Mr.  Kessen.  In  consequence  of  this, 
the  Church  resolved  to  abandon-  all  claim  to  the  fruits  of  the 
benefice,  leaving  these  to  be  disposed  of  between  Mr.  Clark  and 
other  parties  as  the  civil  judges  might  think  right;  but  in 
regard  to  ordination  to  the  cure  of  souls,  that  was  a  spiritual 
matter  which  the  Church  was  bound  to  care  for.  The  interdict 
was  disregarded,  and  Mr.  Kessen  ordained. 

No  sooner  bad  this  been  done  than  a  summons  was  issued 
against  the  Presbytery,  and  they  were  brought  to  the  bar  of 
the  Civil  Court,  June  14,  1839.  The  scene  has  been  depicted 
by  the  hand  of  Hugh  Miller : — "  In  front,  elevated  on  their 
bench,  clothed  in  their  robes  of  human  authority,  and  invested 
with  the  stern  insignia  of  human  power,  sat  the  judges,  twelve 
in  number.  Opposite  stood  another  Court — the  Court  of  Christ 
— called  to  their  bar  for  executing  the  spiritual  functions  con- 
ferred by  the  Lord  Jesus  on  His  Church.  .  .  .  With  a  demeanour 


STRUGGLE  FOK  SPIRITUAL  INDEPENDENCE.  33 

touching  from  its  perfect  simplicity,  which  indeed  characterised 
the  bearing  of  them  all,  the  Rev.  Mr.  Stirling,  of  Cargill,  the 
senior  minister,  read  a  statement,"  to  the  effect  that  they  appeared 
in  obedience  to  the  citation,  because  they  were  deeply  impressed 
with  the  oblioation  of  givinor  all  honour  and  reverence  to  the 
judges  of  the  land  ;  disclaiming  any  intention  of  disrespect  to 
the  Court  in  what  they  have  done.  But  in  ordaining  to  the 
oflSce  of  the  holy  ministry,  and  in  admitting  to  the  pastoral 
charge,  to  which,  in  their  proceedings  complained  of,  they  had 
strictly  limited  themselves,  they  acted  in  obedience  to  the 
superior  Church  judicatory,  to  which,  in  matters  spiritual,  they 
were  subordinate,  and  to  which  at  ordination  they  had  vowed 
obedience.  "  It  is  commonly  understood  that  five  of  the  judges 
voted  in  favour  of  the  sentence  of  imprisonment,  and  six  for 
the  more  lenient  measure  of  rebuke,  and  that  the  Lord  Presi- 
dent did  not  vote  at  all." 

They  were  accordingly  rebuked  in  terms  as  strong  as  the 
Court  could  well  employ,  and  a  distinct  intimation  given,  that 
should  any  breach  of  interdict  again  occur,  the  offenders  would 
inevitably  be  sent  to  prison.  How  little  effect  this  threat 
produced  was  soon  to  be  seen.  But  in  the  meantime  legal 
proceedings  of  another  kind  were  taken.  An  action  was  raised 
by  Mr.  Clark,  and  the  Presbytery  were  cast  in  damages  and 
expenses  to  the  extent  of  several  thousand  pounds.  And  so 
the  first  case  of  conflict  came  to  an  end — the  Church  making 
good  her  object  in  shielding  and  caring  for  the  spiritual  interests 
of  her  people,  while  the  Court  of  Session  had  shown  their  power 
not  only  in  rebukes  and  threats  of  imprisonment,  but  in  fines 
30  heavy  that,  looking  to  the  income  of  Presbyterian  ministers, 
they  might,  if  help  had  not  been  contributed  by  friends,  have 
proved  oppressive  and  ruinous. 

Far  more  formidable,  however,  was  the  next  case  of  collision 
arising  out  of  the  settlement  at  Marnoch.  We  saw  how,  amid 
the  snows  of  winter,  the  seven  ministers  of  Strathbogie  had 
ordained  Mr.  Edwards,  and  forced  him  on  the  parish.  Expressly 
to  prevent  this,  the  Church  had  suspended  them  from  the  office 
of  the  ministry  and  all  its  sacred  functions ;  and  hence  it  fol- 
lowed that  other  ministers  had  to  be  sent  to  preach  and  dispense 


34  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

ordinauces  to  tlie  parishioners.  Here,  again,  to  the  amazement 
of  many,  the  Court  of  Session  interposed  by  an  interdict, 
making  it  an  oflfence  for  ministers  to  preach  the  Gospel  in  those 
seven  parishes.  Such  assumption  of  spiritual  authority  by 
civil  judges  was  a  new  thing  in  Scotland  since  the  days  of 
the  Stuarts.  It  had  been  believed  that  at  common  law  there 
was  freedom  for  any  minister  of  any  denomination  in  any 
part  of  the  country  to  preach  the  Gospel  to  those  who  chose 
to  hear  him  ;  and  men  opened  their  eyes  wlien  the  Court  of 
Session  were  found  laying  the  Word  and  ordinances  of  God 
under  civil  interdict. 

On  the  part  of  the  ministers  so  prohibited  there  was,  of 
course,  only  one  thing  to  be  done,  and  this  has  been  well  described 
by  Dr.  Guthrie,  one  of  the  first  on  whom  the  prohibition  fell : — 
"  In  going  to  preach  in  Strathbogie,"  he  said,  "  I  was  met  by 
an  interdict  from  the  Court  of  Session — an  interdict  to  which 
as  regards  civil  matters,  I  gave  implicit  obedience.  On  the 
Lord's  day,  when  I  was  preparing  for  divine  service,  in  came 
the  servant  of  the  law,  and  handed  me  an  interdict.  I  told  him 
he  had  done  his  duty,  and  I  would  do  mine.  The  interdict 
forbade  me,  under  penalty  of  the  Calton  Jail,  to  preach  in  the 
parish  churches  of  Strathbogie.  I  said.  The  parish  churches 
are  stone  and  lime,  and  belong  to  the  State  ;  I  will  not  intrude 
there.  It  forbade  me  to  preach  the  Gospel  in  the  school-houses. 
I  said.  The  school-houses  are  stone  and  lime,  and  belong  to  the 
State ;  I  will  not  intrude  there.  It  forbade  me  to  preach  in 
the  churchyard.  I  said,  The  dust  of  the  dead  is  the  State's  ;  I 
will  not  intrude  there.  But  when  the  Lords  of  Session  forbade 
me  to  preach  my  Master's  blessed  Gospel  and  offer  salvation  to 
sinners  anywhere  in  that  district  under  the  arch  of  heaven,  I 
put  the  interdict  under  my  feet,  and  I  preached  the  Gospel."  * 

The  effect  of  this  on  the  surrounding  district  was  very  great. 
"  I  recollect,"  says  Mr.  Dewar,  of  Fochabers,  "  the  Sabbath 
morning  when  the  interdict  was  served  on  Dr.  Guthrie  in  Fife- 
Keith.  I  called  at  his  lodgings  on  my  way  from  Botriphnie 
to  preach  to  my  own  congregation.  During  the  short  time  I 
was  in  the  room  a  messenger  was  sent  to  him  by  some  person 
*  Memoir  of  Dr.  Guthrie,  vol.  ii.  p.  18. 


STRUGGLE  FOR  SPIRITUAL  INDEPENDENCE.  35 

who  wished  to  see  him.  He  returned  immediately,  held  up  the 
interdict  in  his  hands,  and  I  shall  never  forget  the  indignation 
that  flashed  in  his  eye  while  he  exclaimed,  '  No  interdict  shall 
prevent  me  from  preaching  the  blessed  Gospel  of  my  Lord  and 
Saviour  Jesus  Christ.*  .  .  .  He  preached  that  week,  night  after 
night,  to  crowded  audiences  in  several  parishes  in  Strathbogie. 
There  was  intense  excitement  when,  at  the  conclusion  of  his 
discourses,  he  held  up  the  interdict,  and  declared  that  at  all 
hazards,  and  whatever  the  consequence  might  be,  he  would 
proclaim  the  everlasting  Gospel  to  his  fellow-men."  * 

The  whole  district  of  Strathbogie  was  at  that  time  in  a  state 
which  none  who  witnessed  it  can  ever  forget,  and  the  effects 
were  felt  all  over  Scotland.  As  time  went  on  the  ministerial 
supplies  had  to  be  drawn  from  all  diflerent  quarters  of  the 
Church.  And  it  naturally  followed  that,  as  the  ministers  went 
down,  a  feeling  of  personal  concern  was  roused  in  their  con- 
gregations, and  spread  from  parish  to  parish,  when  they  knew 
that  a  threat  of  imprisonment  was  hanging  over  their  pastor. 

This  was  seen,  for  example,  at  Kuthwell,  on  the  extreme  south 
of  Scotland,  when  the  venerable  Dr.  Duncan,  then  Moderator 
of  the  General  Assembly,  went  north  to  Strathbogie.  During 
the  earlier  stages  of  the  Church  conflict  his  people  had  been 
somewhat  apathetic.  "  The  first  incident  that  seemed  really  to 
pierce  the  heart  of  the  parish  was  when  "  he  "  was  invited  to 
proceed  to  Strathbogie  to  supply  for  a  time  one  or  two  of  the 
parishes  whose  ministers  had  been,  for  contumacy,  suspended. 
The  emotion  and  anxiety  were  very  great,  for  they  understood 
that  he  went,  having  professed  his  willingness,  if  interdicted, 
to  pay  the  forfeit  of  disobedience,  though  it  should  be  imprison- 
ment. .  .  .  When,  instead  of  any  such  extreme  measure,  they 
learned  that  the  legal  officer,  who  followed  him  to  a  country 
inn,  was  so  ashamed  of  his  mission  that  he  could  hardly  muster 
courage  to  execute  it ;  -f-  and  that  in  all  places  he  found  a 
hungering  after  the  good  news  of  salvation,  we  were  all  filled 

*  Dis.  Mss.  xliv.  p.  4,  Rev.  D.  Dewar. 

t  "The  act  was  performed  with  downcast  looks  and  stammered 
apoloD;ies,  as  by  one  ashamed  of  his  office."— Memoir  of  Dr.  H.  Duncan, 
p.  274. 


36  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

with  a  lively  joy.  .  .  .  He  himself  was  never  more  refreshed 
in  his  ministry  than  by  his  visit  to  that  enlivened  region.  .  .  . 
When  he  came  home  to  Ruthwell  his  lively  prayers  and  inter- 
esting narratives  of  the  state  of  souls  in  Strathbogie  refreshed 
us  all."  * 

The  reader,  however,  will  best  understand  the  experience  of 
the  ministers  who  were  engaged  in  this  service  by  our  giving 
the  narrative  of  Mr.  Wood,  of  Elie,  then  of  Westruther.  He 
had  travelled  north  over  night,  and  after  arriving  at  Huntly,  he 
says :  "I  was  engaged  with  my  toilet,  when  a  gentleman  was 

announced,  who  introduced  himself  as ;  and  almost  the 

very  first  words  he  spake  were :  '  Have  you  got  your  name  on 
your  luggage  ?  Excuse  me,'  he  added,  seeing  that  I  was  some- 
what startled  by  his  salutation,  '  but  there  is  no  need  that  you 
should  assist  the  officers  in  finding  out  your  name.'  The  only 
article  of  my  luggage  which  bore  my  name  was  a  hat-box,  which 
I  produced,  and  this  he  immediately  took  in  charge.     Having 

completed  my  toilet,  I  rejoined ,  who  took  me  across  to  his 

own  house.  .  .  .  '  You  must  understand,*  said  he,  as  we  crossed 
the  street,  'there  are  two  inns.  The  one  out  of  which  we  have 
come  is  the  Non-intrusion,  and  that  other  one  is  the  Moderate 
inn.  And  there,'  pointing  to  an  individual  in  a  shabby  black 
coat,  the  pockets  of  which  were  evidently  distended  by  papers, 
who  was  pacing  up  and  down  on  the  flagstones,  '  there  is  the 
messenger-at-arms  waiting  to  serve  the  interdicts.  You  have 
no  idea,'  he  added,  '  of  the  length  to  which  the  Moderates  are 
going,  in  order  to  obtain  the  names  of  the  ministers.  We  found 
our  servant-girl  listening  at  the  back  of  the  door  of  our  sitting- 
room  for  this  purpose.     No  doubt  she  was  bribed.'  .  .  . 

"  I  dined  at  the  inn  with  Dr.  Duncan,  of  Ruthwell,  who  was 
returning  from  a  fortnight's  visit  to  one  of  the  parishes,  and  who 
gave  me  some  very  interesting  details  of  the  religious  awakening 
which  seemed  to  have  visited  them. 

" had  given  me  directions  how  to  proceed  to  my  destina- 
tion. The  inn  pony  was  brought  to  the  door,  and  when  asked 
where  I  was  going,  in  order  to  fill  up  the  duty  ticket,  I  told 
them  to  the  country,  according  to  arrangement.  I  then  waited 
*  Dis.  Mss.  xvi.  p.  2. 


STEUGGLE  FOE  SPIEITUAL  INDEPENDENCE.  37 

a  few  minutes  till  I  saw on  horseback  at  the  foot  of  the 

street,  and  then  mounted,  and  rode  after  him.  Little  more  than 
an  hour's  ride  brought  us  to  a  farm-house  of  one  storey,  con- 
sisting of  a  but  and  a  ben,  to  the  inmates  of  which,  a  middle- 
aged  man  and  his  sister,  I  was  introduced  as  the  minister  that 
was  to  be  with  them  for  a  fortnight. 

"  The  parish  of  Cairnie  is  chiefly  upland,  and  presented  several 
features  which  were  new  and  strange  to  me.  With  the  excep- 
tion of  the  portion  of  the  high  road  to  Elgin,  which  ran  along 
the  borders  of  it,  I  believe  there  was  not  a  made  road  in  the 
parish.  ,  .  .  The  harvest  was  got  in  upon  sleds — i.e.,  two  long 
poles  trailing  behind  a  horse,  and  connected  by  a  cross  piece. 
Corn  was  carried  to  market,  and  lime  fetched  for  farm  purposes, 
on  horseback.  My  host  was  a  small  farmer,  who  lived  with  his 
sister  in  a  one-storey  house — a  but  and  ben,  as  I  have  said. 
They  were  godly  people,  connected,  I  think,  with  the  Indepeii- 
dents,  but  I  remember  the  woman  saying  that  they  had  sent 
word  to  their  itinerant  minister,  '  that  he  need  not  come  the  noo, 
for  they  had  plenty  of  Gospel  preaching.'  The  arrangements  of 
the  house  were  of  the  most  primitive  kind.  .  .  .  No  grate  of 
any  kind ;  the  turf  jailed  up  in  a  heap  on  the  hearth,  which  it 
required  some  skill  to  arrange.  My  kind  hostess  used  to  comt 
in  in  the  evening  and  pile  the  turf  secundum  artem,  and 
after  lingering  about  the  room  for  a  while,  she  would  open  the 
door  and  call  to  her  brother,  'Are  ye  no  comin'  ben  to  have  a 
crack  wi'  the  minister?'  and  then  they  would  both  come  and 
have  a  good  long  talk  about  many  things.  My  heart  was  much 
moved  when,  years  afterwards,  I  learned  that  my  name  was 
among  the  last  words  she  spoke  before  her  spirit  took  its  flight 
for  the  realms  of  glory. 

"Sunday,  the  17th  of  May,  was  one  of  the  stormiest  days  I 
was  ever  out  in,  and  well  it  was  that  we  had  the  use  of  a 
small  building  erected  for  a  Mason  lodge,  where  I  preached  to 
a  good  congregation  from  Acts  ii.  41,  and  in  the  evening  from 
Johvi  iii.  3. 

"  As  I  by  no  means  intended  to  spend  an  idle  week  at  Cairnie, 
I  gathered  a  meeting  of  the  most  responsible  men  in  the  neigh- 
bourhood, to  consider  what  it  might  be  best  to  do.     They 


38  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 

recommended  diets  of  catechising,  and  I  put  all  the  arrangements 
into  their  hands.  As  a  specimen  of  the  work,  I  shall  give  an 
account  of  the  proceedings  on  Monday.  We  were  to  have  two 
meetings  that  day.  A  pony  was  provided  for  me,  and  after 
breakfast  I  set-  forth,  accompanied  by  some  of  the  neighbours  to 
guide  me  to  my  destination,  which  was  a  large  barn,  belonging 
to  a  farm  at  the  distance  of  a  mile.  I  found  it  crammed  to  the 
very  doors,  and  persons  sitting  even  on  the  baulks  of  the  roof. 
I  soon  got  the  young  people  gathered  together,  and  put  to  them 
a  few  questions ;  but  the  greater  part  of  the  business  was  a 
lecture  or  running  commentary  of  my  own. 

"  Having  finished  my  work  in  that  place,  I  started,  under  the 
direction  of  my  guides,  for  the  place  where  the  second  meeting 
was  to  be  held.  As  far  as  I  recollect,  the  distance  was  about  a 
couple  of  miles,  and  our  procession  was  to  me  both  novel  and 
interesting.  Some  forty  or  fifty  people  accompanied  me.  One 
group  would  close  round  my  pony  and  indulge  themselves  in  con- 
versation for  a  time,  and  then,  falling  back,  would  give  way  to 
another.  Then,  perhaps,  some  individual  would  make  his  or  her 
way  toward  me  with  the  words :  '  Eh  !  sir,  there's  an  auld.  man 
lying  bedrid  in  yon  cot-house,  and  naebody  gangs  near  him  to 
speak  to  him  about  his  souL  Would  ye  no  just  gang  in  and  see 
him  for  a  minute  or  twa  ? '  Of  course,  the  appeal  could  not  be 
resisted,  and  the  whole  crowd  stopped  at  the  door,  and  my  pony 
was  held  for  me  till  I  had  gone  in  and  spoken  a  few  words,  and 
prayed  with  him.  This  was  repeated  two  or  three  times  in  the 
course  of  our  journey.  Our  second  diet  of  catechising  was  just 
like  the  first,  and  need  not  be  particularly  described.  These 
meetings  were  held  every  day  of  the  week  except  Priday,  which 
was  the  day  of  the  fair  at  Keith,  and  the  most  numerously- 
attended  one  was  on  Saturday,  when  nearly  a  hundred  persons 
were  present. 

"  I  preached  again  on  Sunday,  the  24th  May,  from  Job 
xxvii,  10  in  the  morning,  and  from  1  John  ii.  15-17  in  the  after- 
noon. Next  day  I  left,  not  having  had  an  interdict  served  on  me, 
because  the  messenger  who  held  them  had  never  discovered  ray 
name.  Nobody  in  the  parish  knew  it,  and  I  was  among  them 
simply  as  the  minister  that  had  come  for  a  fortnight.     I  found 


STEUGGLE  FOR  SPIEITUAL  INDEPENDENCE.  39 

out  afterwards  that  extraordinary  pains  had  been  taken  to  dis- 
cover it,  a  person  having  actually  been  sent  out  to  find  where  I 
had  my  linen  washed ;  but,  as  I  had  a  sufficient  supply  with  me, 
r  had  no  need  to  employ  a  washerwoman,  and  so  that  plan 
failed.  .  .  . 

"  I  had  been  so  interested  in  the  parish  of  Cairnie,  that  before 
leaving  I  had  promised  to  return  and  dispense  the  sacrament. 
Accordingly,  I  went  north  by  the  Aberdeen  boat  on  Tuesday 
the  28th  July.  As  we  approached  Aberdeen,  an  old  woman  in 
a  red  cloak  came  up  to  me  on  the  deck.  '  Ye'll  be  ane  of  the 
ministers  that's  gaun  to  Strathbogie?'  said  she.  I  signified 
that  I  was.  She  then  told  me  of  the  deep  interest  she  took  in  the 
whole  matter,  and  her  earnest  desire  to  give  her  aid  to  the  cause 
in  any  way  that  she  could.  'An'  whaur  will  ye  be  ga'in  when 
ye  get  to  Aberdeen,  for  I'm  thinkin'  ye'll  be  a  stranger  there  ?' 
I  told  her  I  was  a  stranger,  and  had  no  acquaintances  in  the 
city.  On  which  she  kindly  offered  me  her  hospitality  for  the 
night,  and  took  me  to  her  son's  house,  a  Mr.  Rodger,  one  of  Dr. 
M'Crie's  people.  Next  morning  I  started  from  Aberdeen,  and 
arrived  in  due  time  at  Cairnie,  where  I  received  a  very  warm 
welcome.  Thursday  was  our  Fast  Day,  and  I  had  just  finished 
breakfast,  and  was  preparing  to  go  down  to  our  place  of  worship, 
when  a  messenger-at-arms  appeared,  accompanied  by  two  wit- 
nesses, and  served  me  with  an  interdict. 

"  This  interdict  is  now  before  me,  having  been  carefully 
bound  up  with  other  papers,  after  having  done  good  service  in 
its  day  at  many  a  non-intrusion  meeting,  and  I  think  a  sentence 
or  two  descriptive  of  it  will  not  be  amiss. 

"  The  document  consists  of  forty-two  quarto  printed  pages, 
each  page  signed  by  John  Smith,  the  messenger-at-arms.  It 
commences  with  an  application  to  the  Court  of  Session,  rehears- 
ing the  whole  proceedings  of  the  General  Assembly  of  1840 
towards  the  seven  ministers  of  Strathbogie,  and  praying  their 
lordships  to  suspend  the  resolutions  and  sentence  of  the  General 
Assembly,  to  interdict  the  minority  of  the  Presbytery,  and  the 
special  commission  appointed  by  the  Assembly  to  co-operate 
with  them,  from  acting  on  the  said  resolutions  and  sentence, 
and  especially   from   appointing  ministers  or  probationers  to 


40  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

preach  or  administer  ordinances  in  the  parishes  of  the  coni- 
plaiuers,  and  to  'interdict,  prolnbit,  and  discharge,  all  presby- 
teries and  all  ministers  and  projjationers  who  by  the  aforesaid 
resolutions  and  sentence  may  be  appointed  or  called  upon  to 
preach  and  administer  ordinances  within  the  jjarishes  of  the 
complainers/  Then  follows  a  '  Statement  of  Facts,'  giving  a 
complete  history  of  the  Marnoch  case  from  the  date  of  the 
vacancy  in  tlmt  parish.  It  is  worthy  of  notice  that  it  appears 
from  this  Statement  that  the  interdict  as  first  granted  on  20tb 
December,  1839,  was  only  against  intruding  into  the  churches, 
churchyards,  or  school-houses,  and  from  using  the  church-bells  ; 
and  that  it  was  only  on  the  14th  February  that  the  Court,  on  a 
reclaiming  petition  from  the  seven  ministers,  altered  the  int-er- 
locutor  of  the  Lord  Ordinary  (Murray),  which  had  refused  to  go 
farther  than  the  interdict  already  given,  and  granted  the  inter- 
dict as  craved — that  is  to  say,  interdicted  all  ministers  and 
probationers  from  intruding  into  the  parishes  of  Strathbogie. 
This  interdict  had  been  before  the  meeting  of  the  General 
Assembly,  and  the  'Statement'  goes  on  to  rehearse  the  whole 
proceedings  of  the  Assembly,  against  which  a  renewal  of  the 
interdict  was  desired.  Then  follow  eleven  'pleas  in  law.'  I 
recollect  that  I  had  some  difficulty  in  discovering  from  the 
document  what  thing  it  was  that  was  forbidden.  The  last,  or 
outside  page,  certainly  intimated  to  me,  by  name,  the  '  inter- 
locutor, note  of  suspension,  and  interdict,  statement  of  facts, 
pleas  in  law,  and  appendix,'  interdicting,  prohibiting,  and  dis- 
charging me  in  terms  thereof;  but  it  was  not  till  after  some 
search  that  I  discovered  on  the  41st  page,  in  smaller  type 
than  all  the  rest  of  the  document,  the  words:  'Edinburgh, 
11th  July,  1840.  The  Lords  having  advised  the  note  of  sus- 
pension and  interdict,  on  report  of  Lord  Ivory,  pass  the  note, 
and  grant  the  interdict  as  craved.  (Signed)  C.  Hope,  I.P.D.' 
So  that  the  terms  thereof  were,  that  I  should  not  preach  nor 
administer  ordinances  within  any  of  the  seven  parishes  of 
Strathbogie. 

"  I  put  the  interdict  into  my  pocket,  and  walked  down  to  the 
Mason  lodge,  where  I  preached  to  a  large  congregation  from 
Zech.  xii.  1 0.      After  sermon,   I   exhibited  the  interdict'  and 


STBUGGLE  FOR  SPIRITUAL  INDEPENDENCE,  41 

pointed  out  that  though  I  recognised  the  authority  of  the  Civil 
Court  in  regard  to  churches,  churchyards,  and  school-houses,  I 
never  could  acknowledge  any  right  in  the  Court  of  Session  to 
prohibit  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel  and  the  administration  of 
the  sacraments,  and  therefore  I  had  not  for  one  moment  hesi- 
tated to  break  it, 

"  The  hall  or  Mason's  lodge  being  too  coufinedi  we  resolved 
to  have  the  sacrament  in  the  open  air,  A  suitable  meadow  was 
secured.  An  immense  block  of  granite  with  a  flat  surface  was 
made  the  head  of  the  table,  and  posts  driven  into  the  ground 
supported  planks,  which  formed  the  remainder  of  the  table  and 
the  seats.  A  slight  tent  was  also  erected  for  the  protection  of 
the  speaker  in  case  of  bad  weather.  On  Friday,  I  walked  over 
to  Grange  and  obtained  the  assistance  of  two  elders  for  the  Sab- 
bath-day services.  Saturday  was  occupied  with  divine  service, 
when  I  preached  from  1  John  v.  1-3  ;  with  conversing  with 
communicants  for  the  first  time,  of  whom  there  were  a  good 
many,  and  not  all  of  them  were  young  persons ;  and  with  com- 
pleting the  arrangements  of  the  tent  and  tables. 

"  Sabbath,  the  2nd  day  of  August,  was  the  communion  Sab- 
bath. The  text  of  the  action  sermon  was  Heb.  x.  13.  I  also 
fenced  the  tables,  served  three  (the  whole  number),  and  gave 
the  concluding  address.  Mr.  Moncur,  the  probationer,  who  had 
by  that  time  been  permanently  stationed  at  Cairnie,  preached  in 
the  evening.  The  season  was  a  very  remarkable,  and,  as  I  be- 
lieve, a  profitable  one.  The  people  were  deeply  affected — many 
of  them  in  tears.  A  good  many  grown-up  people  sat  down  at 
the  table  for  the  first  time.  Among  these  there  were  a  grand- 
mother and  granddaughter,  who  sat  side  by  side.  The  scene 
was  the  occasion  of  a  good  deal  of  curiosity  among  outsiders. 
As  we  came  down  to  the  place  where  we  celebrated  the  com- 
munion, we  could  see  the  suspended  parish  minister,  with  a 
group  around  him,  scanning  the  proceedings  through  a  telescope 
over  the  wall  of  the  manse  garden ;  and  I  well  remember  that, 
while  I  was  fencing  the  tables,  the  mail  coach  from  the  north  to 
Aberdeen,  passing  along  the  highroad  about  a  furlong  oflf,  and 
probably  within  reach  of  my  voice,  actually  pulled  up,  and  stood 
for  about  five  minutes,  the  passengers  looking  with  curiosity  on 


42  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISKUPTION, 

the  strange  scene.  The  services  were  closed  on  the  Monday 
with  a  thanksgiving  sermon  from  Gen.  xviii.  19.  On  Tuesday  I 
left  by  the  mail  for  Aberdeen.  >  It  was  blowing  a  hurricane  (we 
had  reason  to  be  thankful  that  we  had  had  a  quiet  Sunday),  and 
T  recollect  that  we  had  to  walk  the  horses  very  carefully  across 
the  long  bridge  at  Inverury,  lest  we  should  be  blown  over."* 

It  was  a  strange  time  in  Scotland,  when  for  many  months  the 
attention  of  the  whole  country  was  fixed  on  those  seven  parishes. 
A  continuous  supply  of  interdicts  went  down  from  Edinburgh ; 
they  were  served  on  each  minister  as  he  arrived — so  soon  as  his 
name  could  be  ascertained — and  invariably,  without  the  least 
hesitation,  they  were  broken,  A  state  of  things  such  as  this 
was  deeply  to  be  regretted — was,  indeed,  without  parallel 
among  a  law-abiding  and  loyal  people  like  those  of  Scotland 
since  the  old  persecuting  times.  But  the  same  vital  questions 
were  again  being  stirred,  the  old  fire  was  rising.  The  Civil 
Court  had  at  last  fairly  *'  overshot  the  mark — it  was  Erastian 
over-much."  Broken  interdicts  were  shown  as  common  things 
all  over  the  country,  and  the  remarkable  circumstance  was, 
that,  notwithstanding  the  distinct  threat  of  imprisonment  held 
out  by  the  Court,  neither  the  private  parties  nor  the  legal  autho- 
rities ever  ventured  to  put  that  threatened  penalty  in  force. 

Connected  with  this  case,  however,  there  were  other  and  far 
more  serious  matters  in  reserve.'  At  first,  it  seemed  as  if  the 
seven  ministers  had  intended  to  observe  their  ordination  vows. 
On  being  suspended,  they  ceased  the  exercise  of  their  ministry. 
But  soon  there  came  a  change — they  presented  a  formal  appli- 
cation to  the  Civil  Court,  asking  the  secular  judges  to  take  off 
the  spiritual  sentence,  and  restore  them  to  the  exercise  of  their 
sacred  functions.  And  this  the  Court  actually  professed  to  do 
by  a  formal  decree.  It  was  one  of  the  startling  decisions  of 
that  strange  time  when  the  civil  judges  assumed  the  power  of 
restoring  the  sacred  functions  which  the  only  competent  spiritual 
authorities  had  taken  away.  But  the  grave  ecclesiastical  offence 
was  not  that  the  judges  gave  such  a  decision,  but  that  the 
Church's  own  sons,  her  ordained  ministers,  should  have  asked 
a  Civil  Court  to  exercise  the  power  of  the  keys,  so  as  to  set  aside 
*  Dis.  Mss.  1. 


STEUGGLE  FOE  SPIEITUAL  INDEPENDENCE.  43 

and  overbear  the  spiritual  authority  which  the  Church  holds 
from  Christ.  Had  this  been  submitted  to,  it  is  obvious  that 
all  spiritual  authority  was  laid  prostrate  at  the  feet  of  the 
Court  of  Session.  The  seven  ministers,  accordingly,  for  this 
offence,  were  put  on  trial.  Slowly  and  reluctantly  their  case 
was  gone  into  by  the  Church,  as  may  be  seen  at  various  stages 
of  the  procedure.  Every  effort  was  made  to  prevail  on  them, 
as  brethren,  to  withdraw  from  a  position  so  false.  The  case 
was  most  painful  in  itself,  and  in  the  results  to  which  it  pointed. 
But,  ultimately,  all  efforts  to  ward  off  the  final  issue  were  un- 
availing, and  in  the  Assembly  of  IS-il  they  were  deposed  from 
the  office  of  the  ministry. 

There  is  only  one  more  of  these  leading  cases  requiring  briefly 
to  be  noticed — that  of  Stewarton,  which  arose  in  1840,  though 
not  decided  till  January,  1843.  It  had  much  to  do  with  forcing 
on  the  Disruption. 

The  parish  of  Stewarton,  in  Ayrshire,  was  extensive  and 
populous,  and  the  Presbytery,  anxious  for  the  spiritual  welfare 
of  the  people,  proposed  to  have  a  portion  of  it  attached  quoad 
sacra  to  a  Chapel  of  Ease,  and  put  under  the  charge  of  an 
additional  minister  and  kirk-session.  Six  years  before,  the 
Church,  following  many  unchallenged  precedents  in  her  own 
history,  had  raised  such  chapels  into  quoad  sacra  parishes, 
leaving  all  civil  interests  connected  with  the  old  parochial 
arrangements  unaffected,  the  only  result  being  that  the  minis- 
ters were  rendered  truly  Presbyterian,  were  put  on  a  par  with 
their  brethren  in  Church  Courts,  and  had  kirk-sessions  to  aid 
them  in  their  pastoral  work.  The  immediate  effect  of  the 
act  had  been  very  great.  Nearly  200  churches  at  once  rose 
over  the  land,  not  only  in  populous  cities,  but  in  extensive 
country  districts,  as  at  Latheron  already  referred  to,  where  a 
parish  with  thirty  miles  of  sea-board,  and  320  square  miles  ot 
area,  instead  of  its  one  parish  church,  had  five  fully-equipped 
charges,  each  with  its  own  minister,  kirk-session,  and  school. 
It  was  blessed  work  for  the  great  Master,  into  which  Dr. 
Chalmers,  Mr.  M'Cheyne,  and  many  men  of  kindred  spirit  had 
thrown  their  whole  heart. 

But  on  this  field  also  the  Church  was  now  to  be  assailed, 


44  ANNALS  OP  THE  DISEUPTION. 

and  once  more  the  Court  of  Session  was  called  in  to  deal 
the  blow.  Certain  heritors  of  Stewarton  applied  for  an  inter- 
dict. It  could  not  be  shown  that  any  civil  interests  were 
infringed  on ;  the  Church  had  been  careful  to  leave  these 
where  she  found  -them.  No  civil  law,  not  even  the  formidable 
Patronage  Act  of  Queen  Anne,  had  been  touched.  The 
wliole  action  of  the  Church  was  confined  to  making  more 
efficient  provision  for  having  her  spiritual  work  carried  out. 
But  in  spite  of  this  fact,  and  of  the  masterly  argument  and 
protest  of  Lord  Moncreifi",  the  interdict  was  granted.  At  a 
blow,  more  than  200  ordained  Presbyterian  ministers  were 
stripped  of  one-half  their  sacred  functions,  more  than  200 
kirk-sessions  were  extinguished,  and  this  was  done  by  civil 
judges  sitting  in  a  secular  court.  Without  any  allegation  that 
a  sino-le  Act  of  Parliament  had  been  infringed  on,  the  Lords  of 
Session  wrested  from  the  Church  the  power  of  administering  in 
such  matters  the  spiritual  affairs  belonging  to  her  as  a  Church 
of  Christ. 

How  the  decision  was  received  may  be  seen  from  the  speech 
of  Dr.  Chalmers,  when  immediately  afterwards,  addressing  the 
Commission  of  Assembly,  he  exclaimed,  "  It  is  not  on  one 
point,  but  on  all  that  we  are  assailed.  .  .  .  The  ancient  wall  of 
circum valla tion  that  has  protected  us  in  former  days  has  all 
been  broken  down."* 

And  not  less  decisive  was  the  language  of  Dr.  Begg,  who  was 
prepared  to  accept  the  judgment  in  the  Stewarton  case  as  of 
itself  enough  to  drive  the  evangelical  majority  out  of  the  Estab- 
lishment— "  This  judgment  is  deserving  of  the  most  solemn  and 
serious  consideration  of  the  Church,  as  one  of  the  most  violent 
attempts  which  has  yet  been  made  to  overturn  the  foundations 
of  our  Church.  Our  foundation  principle  is  Presbyterianism — 
that  all  our  ministers  are  equal — that  every  minister  is  bound 
to  rule  as  well  as  teach — and  it  appears  to  me  that  the  Civil 
Courts  have  no  more  right  to  subvert  that  principle  than  they 
have  to  overturn  the  whole  constitution  of  the  Church;  or 
rather,  this  is  the  constitution  which  the  Civil  Courts  are  now 
attempting  to  overturn. 

*  Witness  Newspaper,  1st  February,  1843. 


STEUGGLE  FOR  SPIEITUAL  INDEPENDENCE.  45 

"But  whatever  the  Government  may  do  or  not  do,  we  have  a 
plain  and  clear  course  of  duty  to  follow — to  stand  upon  our 
Presbyterian  principles  and  say,  If  you  drive  these  men  out  of 
the  Church  you  will  drive  us  also.  We  will  go  with  them. 
They  shall  not  be  separated  from  us,  nor  will  we  allow  the  Civil 
Courts  to  separate  those  whom  Christ  has  united,  or  to  separate 
rule  from  teaching  in  Christ's  house.  There  is  a  formidable 
prospect  as  well  before  the  Church  as  before  the  kingdom  of 
Scotland.  Our  leaving  the  Establishment  I  reckon  to  be  a 
very  insignificant  matter  as  compared  with  what  is  to  come 
after."  * 

While  a  struggle  such  as  this  was  going  on,  the  feelings  of 
both  parties,  as  might  have  been  expected,  began  to  get  em- 
bittered. Hard  sayings  came  from  the  bench,  little  in  keeping 
with  the  usual  judicial  calmness  of  the  place ;  while  on  the 
other  side  bold  words  were  fearlessly  spoken,  according  to  the 
use  and  wont  of  Scottish  Churchmen  since  the  days  of  Knox. 
Obviously,  things  were  getting  dangerous,  and  if  the  conflict 
went  on  in  this  fashion,  the  most  disastrous  results  must  be 
looked  for. 

It  was  the  fear  of  this  that  had  led  to  certain  private 
attempts,  so  early  as  1840  and  1841,  to  come  to  a  common 
understanding.  On  the  one  hand,  Lord  Aberdeen  and  Mr. 
Hope,  Dean  of  Faculty,  and  on  the  other,  Dr.  Chalmers 
and  Dr.  Candlish,  sought  to  reach  some  common  ground  on 
which  the  controversy  might  be  arranged.  The  direct  result  was 
unfortunate,  and  yet,  when  these  negotiations  ceased,  the  Church 
was  not  without  reasons  for  thankfulness,  both  because  of  what 
had  been  escaped  from,  and  what  had  been  gained. 

There  had  been  great  danger  of  a  compromise.  The  Veto  law 
was  to  be  repealed,  and  to  this  the  friends  of  the  Church  would 
have  willingly  agreed,  provided  some  other  plan  could  have 
been  found  for  securing  the  standing  of  the  Christian  people, 
and  skilful  lawyers  and  statesmen  were  exercising  all  their 
ingenuity  in  devising  a  way  in  which  the  Veto  law  was  really 
•  Witness,  28th  January,  1843. 


46  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

to  be  set  aside,  and  yet  the  object  of  it  substantially  gained. 
The  problem  was  found  to  be  insoluble,  and  in  the  opinion  of 
many  it  was  well.  Under  all  tlie  specious  appearances  of  agree- 
ment, there  lay  a  real  antagonism  of  principle — Erastianism 
against  Spiritualr  Independence — and  in  the  end  it  was  surely 
best  that  such  questions  should  be  dealt  with  frankly  and 
honestly,  apart  from  all  appearance  of  evasion. 

And  there -was  one  other  reason  for  thankfulness.  In  after 
days,  when  the  great  breach  had  actually  taken  place,  the  leading 
men  who  guided  the  counsels  of  the  Church  had  the  satisfaction 
of  thinking  that  the  most  sincere  desire  had  been  manifested  to 
go  as  far  as,  in  honour,  they  could — to  the  extreme  limit  indeed 
— in  the  way  of  fair  and  reasonable  concession  to  the  views  of 
their  opponents.  Even  at  the  time  the  negotiations  had  one 
beneficial  result.  The  favourite  cry  against  the  Church,  which 
her  adversaries  were  never  tired  of  repeating,  was  that  the 
whole  movement  was  due  to  clerical  ambition.  The  Church 
was  merely  grasping  at  power  for  herself.  Mr.  Hope,  the 
Dean  of  Faculty,  had  made  that  the  great  theme  of  a  bulky 
pamphlet,  and  year  after  year  the  secular  press  had  kept 
incessantly  ringing  the  changes  on  priestly  love  of  power.  It 
turned  out  that  the  measure  which  Lord  Aberdeen  pressed 
on  their  acceptance  was  designed  to  take  the  power  from  the 
people  and  give  it  to  the  Church.  This,  in  the  face  of  the 
country,  she  distinctly  refused,  insisting  that  her  Christian 
people  should  have  their  rights  fully  preserved.  In  some 
quarters  this  announcement  seems  to  have  been  received  with 
surprise,  more  especially  in  the  House  of  Peers,  where  some 
even  of  those  opposed  to  the  Church  could  not  withhold  a 
tribute  of  respect  to  her  for  the  course  which  she  had  fol- 
lowed. 

There  is  no  need  to  dwell  on  the  cases  which  began  rapidly 
t^  multiply  towards  the  close  of  the  conflict.  Hardly  any  step 
could  be  taken  by  the  Church  in  which  she  was  not  obstructed 
by  some  interdict.  When  a  minister  was  about  to  be  deposed 
for  theft,  on  the  ground  of  a  sentence  acquiesced  in  by  himself, 
an  interdict  came  from  the  Court  of  Session  to  prevent  his 
deposition.     When  a  Presbytery  was  about  to  try  a  minister 


STKUGGLE  FOR  SPIKITUAL  INDEPENDENCE.  47 

on  a  charge  of  fraud  and  swindling,  an  interdict  came  to  arrest 
the  process.  And  the  worst  feature  of  these  and  simihir  inter- 
ferences was,  that  they  resulted  logically  from  those  general 
principles  of  law  which  had  been  deliberately  adopted  by  the 
Court.  Thus  it  was  that,  while  the  secular  judges  were  invad- 
ing the  spiritual  province,  and  subverting  the  authority  of 
the  Church,  the  minds  both  of  ministers  and  people  were 
opened,  step  by  step,  to  the  true  meaning  of  spiritual  in- 
dependence, and  men  were  made  to  feel  the  vital  importance 
of  the  principles  at  stake. 

When  the  meeting,  therefore,  of  the  Assembly  of  1 842  drew 
near,  it  was  felt  that  some  far  more  decisive  step  must  be  taken 
on  the  part  of  the  Church.  Accordingly,  the  Claim  of  Right,  the 
most  important  document  in  the  whole  "  Ten  Years'  Conflict," 
was  prepared.  It  was  drawn  by  Mr.  Alexander  Dunlop,  to 
whom  the  Church  was  so  deeply  indebted,  and  after  being  urged 
on  the  Court  by  the  eloquence  of  Dr.  Chalmers,  it  was,  by  an 
overwhelming  majority,  adopted  and  passed.  It  consisted  of  a 
formal  appeal  to  the  Queen  and  Government  of  the  country, 
narrating  the  grievances  of  the  Church,  and  claiming,  under 
the  constitution  of  Scotland,  a  right  to  be  protected  from  the 
encroachments  of  the  Civil  Court.  The  language  was  firm,  but 
according  to  the  admission  of  even  hostile  statesmen,  it  was 
calm  and  respectful.  Addressing  the  Throne,  the  Church  made 
a  solemn  demand  for  relief,  accompanied  by  a  no  less  solemn 
assurance,  that  if  her  claim  were  refused,  she  could  no  longer 
continue  to  discharge  her  functions  within  the  Establishment. 

For  many  months  no  notice  was  taken  in  high  quarters  of 
the  appeal  thus  formally  made,  but  as  summer  and  autumn 
passed  away,  there  were  ominous  signs  of  approaching  danger. 

In  the  House  of  Lords  the  final  decision  in  the  Auchterarder 
case  was  pronounced  on  the  9th  of  August.  The  Court  found, 
on  the  application  of  Mr.  Young,  that  he  was  entitled  to 
damages — estimated  by  himself  at  £10,000 — due  from  the 
Presbytery  on  account  of  their  decision.  It  was  a  new  state  of 
things.  Presbyteries  were  Courts  known  to  and  sanctioned  by 
the  constitution  of  the  country,  and  hitherto  it  had  been 
believed  that,  as  jurymen  in  their  box  and  judges  on  the  bench 


48  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

are  exempted  from  actions  for  damages,  even  when  found  wrong 
in  their  decisions,  so  the  members  of  Presbyteries  were  equally 
protected,  and  it  became  a  question  whether  the  Church  could 
remain  in  this  position,  that  when  she  was  addressing  herself  to 
the  solemn  respcmsibilities  connected  with  the  ordination  of  a 
minister,  she  might  have  an  action  of  damages  for  £10,000 
hano-ino;  over  her  head. 

There  was- yet  more  serious  cause  for  alarm.  Principal  Mac- 
farlane.  Dr.  Cook,  and  the  Moderates  as  a  party,  resolved  finally 
to  make  common  cause  with  the  deposed  ministers  of  Strathbogie. 
There  were  among  their  number,  indeed,  those  who,  like  Dr. 
Brunton,  repudiated  the  idea  of  spiritual  sentences  being  invali- 
dated by  the  decisions  of  secular  judges.  But  the  party,  as  a 
whole,  took  their  stand  on  the  civil  law,  as  entitling  them  to 
treat  the  spiritual  sentence  as  a  nullity.  It  was  difficult  to  view 
this  as  anything  else  than  a  combination  within  the  Church 
herself  for  the  overthrow  of  that  sacred  authority  which  she  held 
from  Christ,  her  Head ;  and  it  was  obvious  that  this  attitude  of 
the  Moderates  must  lead  to  new  and  yet  more  formidable  com- 
plications. 

The  sm'viving  ministers  of  that  time  may  still  recall  the  feel- 
ing with  which  on  every  side  the  clouds  were  now  seen  to  be 
gathering,  and  all  the  signs  of  a  fatal  crisis  hurrying  on.  The 
principles  for  which  it  was  th-eir  duty  to  contend  were  never 
felt  to  be  more  sacred,  but  perplexities  were  rising,  the  path  of 
duty  was  getting  dark,  and  in  many  a  manse  men  were  in  a 
season  of  felt  need,  looking  up  to  the  great  Master  not  only  for 
grace  to  be  found  faithful,  but  for  wisdom  to  "know  what 
Israel  ouwht  to  do." 


TUE  COiS VOCATION.  49 


V.  The  Convocation. 

In  these  circumstances  a  suggestion  was  thrown  out  and  eagerly 
welcomed,  that  all  the  ministers  who  had  acted  together  during 
the  conflict  should  meet  at  Edinburgh  for  mutual  conference. 
Thirty-two  fatliers  of  the  Church  issued  the  invitation  ;  travel- 
ling expenses  were  provided  ;  the  laity  of  Edinburgh  opened 
their  homes  to  receive  the  ministers,  and  the  result  was,  that  in 
the  wintry  days  of  November  they  came  from  all  parts  of 
Scotland,  474*  in  number,  the  largest  Assembly  of  ministers 
which  up  to  that  time  Edinburgh  had  ever  seen.  They  were  a 
band  of  brethren  among  whom  one  felt  it  was  no  common  privi- 
lege to  be  allowed  to  take  a  place.  A  keen  observer  from  the 
outside.  Lord  Cockburn,  has  testified  that  the  whole  chivalry  of 
the  Church  of  Scotland  was  in  that  Convocation,  and  there  was 
one  in  their  own  ranks,  Dr.  James  Hamilton,  himself  a  "  man 
greatly  beloved,"  who  with  loving  hand  has  sketched  the 
gathering. 

"When  we  looked  at  the  materials  of  the  meeting  .  .  . 
we  wished  that  those  were  present  in  whose  power  it  lies  to 
preserve  to  the  Scottish  Establishment  all  this  learning  and 
this  worth.  There  was  the  chairman  [Dr.  Chalmers],  who 
might  so  easily  have  been  the  Adam  Smith,  the  Leibnitz,  or 
the  Bossuet  of  the  day,  but  who,  having  obtained  a  better  part, 
has  laid  economics,  and  philosophy,  and  eloquence  on  the  altar 
which  sanctified  himself.  There  was  Dr.  Gordon,  lofty  in  sim- 
plicity, whose  vast  conceptions  and  majestic  emotions  plough 
deeper  the  old  channels  of  customary  words,  and  make  common 
phrases  appear  soleum  and  sublime  after  he  has  used  them. 
There  were  Dr.  Keith,  whose  labours  in  the  Prophecies  have  sent 
his  fame  through  Europe,  and  are  yearly  bringing  converts 
into  the  Church  of  Christ ;  and  Mr.  James  Buchanan,  whose  deep- 


50  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

drawu  sympathy,  and  rich  Bible  lore,  and  Christian  refinement 
have  made  him  a  son  of  consolation  to  so  many  of  the  sons  of 
sorrow.  There  were  Dr.  Welsli,  the  biographer  and  bosom 
friend  of  Thomas  Brown  ;  Dr.  Forbes,  among  the  most  inventive 
of  modern  mathematicians  ;  and  Dr.  Paterson,  whose  '  Manse 
Garden'  is  read  for  the  sake  of  its  poetry,  and  wisdom,  and 
Christian  kindness  where  there  are  no  gardens,  and  will  be  read 
for  the  sake  of  other  days  when  there  are  no  manses.  And 
there  was  Dr.  Patrick  Macfarlan,  whose  calm  judgment  is  a 
sanction  to  any  measure,  and  who,  holding  the  richest  benefice 
in  Scotland,  most  appropriately  moved  the  resolution  that 
rather  than  sacrifice  their  principles  they  should  surrender  their 
possessions.  And  not  to  mention  'names  the  poet  must  not 
speak,'  there  were  in  that  Assembly  the  men  who  are  dearest 
of  all  to  the  godly  throughout  the  land,  the  men  whom  the 
Lord  has  delighted  to  honour — all  the  ministers  in  whose 
parishes  have  been  great  revivals,  from  the  Apostle  of  the  North, 
good  old  Dr.  Macdonald,  whose  happy  countenance  is  a  signal 
for  expectation  and  gladness  in  every  congregation  he  visits, 
and  Mr.  Burns,  of  Kilsyth,  whose  affectionate  counsels  and 
prayers  made  the  Convocation  feel  towards  him  as  a  father, 
doAvn  to  those  younger  ministers  of  whom,  but  for  our  nmtual 
friendship,  I  could  speak  more  freely."* 

It  was  on  Thursday,  the  17th  of  November,  1842,  that  this  im- 
portant meeting  assembled  in  St.  George's  Church,  where,  after 
an  hour  spent  in  devotional  exercises,  Dr.  Chalmers  preached 
to  an  overflowing  audience  one  of  those  sermons  which  once 
heard  can  never  be  forgotten.  His  text,  "Unto  the  upright 
there  ariseth  light  in  the  darkness,"  went  straight  to  men's 
hearts.  Frankly,  and  without  disguise,  he  pointed  to  the  dark- 
ness gathering  round  the  Church's  path  of  duty,  and  then  broke 
forth  in  the  confidence  of  assured  faith  as  he  spoke  of  the  light 
promised  to  the  upright. 

The  meetings  which  followed  were  held  in  Roxburgh  Church, 

near  the  University.     The  proceedings  were  stiictly  private. 

Only  ministers   were    present,   and   the    whole  arrangements 

vvere  studiously  made  to  facilitate  the  interchange  of  sentiment 

*  Harp  on  the  Willows,  pp.  14,  15. 


THE  CONVOCATION.  fil 

among  brethren  who  had  this  in  common,  tliat  all  their 
earthly  interests  were  at  stake.  Twice  a-day  the  Convocation 
met,  a  considerable  portion  of  the  time  at  each  diet  being  spent 
in  prayer,  with  occasional  intervals  of  praise.  And  thus  men 
proceeded,  as  best  they  could,  to  look  in  the  face  the  whole 
difficulties  of  their  position. 

On  one  point  there  was  found  from  the  outset  to  be  complete 
agreement :  For  the  Church  to  recede,  or  in  any  way  abandon 
the  ground  she  had  taken  up,  was  held  at  once  to  be  impossible. 

But  while  this  was  clear,  there  was  yet  considerable  diflFerence 
of  opinion  as  to  the  course  which  ought  actually  to  be  taken. 
Some  of  the  more  ardent  friends  of  Evangelism  regarded  the 
whole  question  as  already  settled,  and  wished  at  once  to  pre- 
cipitate the  Disruption,  as  if  the  only  thing  to  be  done  was 
immediately  to  separate  from  the  State.  Others  whose  Church 
principles  were  not  less  decided  shrank  from  such  a  course, 
proposing  to  remain  in  the  Establishment,  fighting  the  battle  as 
hitherto  inside  the  Church,  and  leaving  it  for  the  State  to  take 
the  serious  responsibility  of  breaking  the  tie  and  driving  them 
out.  It  was  on  the  evening  meeting  of  the  18th  that  the  whole 
differences  of  opinion  on  these  and  other  points,  more  especially 
Patronage,  came  into  view,  and  they  were,  it  must  be  confessed, 
urged  with  sufficient  keenness — so  much  so,  indeed,  that  there 
arose  in  many  minds  no  little  anxiety  as  to  the  result.  The  pre- 
diction of  the  adversaries  had  on  one  point  been  signally  falsified. 
The  Convocation  was  to  be  a  failure,  they  said,  because  so  few 
would  attend.*  But  the  adversaries  had  another  ground  of  com- 
fort in  reserve.  Even  if  they  came  together,  said  the  Times, 
"  We  may  safely  leave  the  dissensions  which  already  manifest 
themselves  among  the  Non-intrusion  party  to  humble  the  pride 
and  overthrow  the  power  of  their  leaders."-f-  Was  this,  then, 
going  to  be  realised  ?      One  of  the  members  has  recorded  his 

*  Dr.  Guthrie  tells  how  Mr.  Maitland  (afterwards  Lord  Dundrennan) 
meeting  Mr.  Craufurd  (Lord  Ardmillan),  assured  him  that  the  Convocation 
was  to  be  "  a  complete  foilure.  '  What,'  said  Craufurd,  '  would  you  call  it 
a  failure  if  two  hundred  were  to  attend  1  Would  you  call  that  a  failure  1 ' 
'  No,'  says  Maitland,  '  but  catch  two  hundred  of  them  coming  ujj  for  such 
a  purpose.' " — Memoir  of  Dr.  Guthrie,  vol.  ii.  p.  44. 

t  Ten  Years'  Conflict,  vol.  ii.  p.  392. 


52  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

impression  that  "  altogether  the  tone  of  this  evening  was  fitted 
to  alarm  and  humble.  To  an  adverse  and  reproachful^eye  it 
would  present,  indeed,  nothing  .but  conflicting  views  and  irre- 
concilable feelings.  Yet,  to  one  who  looked  deeper,  and  with 
no  partial  bias,  it  might  have,  even  now,  been  obvious  that 
the  confusion  was  not  that  of  angry  feud,  but  of  honest  and 
courageous  freedom.  There  was  union  of  purpose  and  mutual 
confidence  iimong  all.  They  saw  eye  to  eye,  and  were  not 
afraid  to  look  each  other  in  the  face."  At  the  same  time  there 
was  much  to  show  the  need  of  prayer.  "  And  to  this  duty  were 
the  brethren  forthwith  admonished  with  consummate  tact,  and 
touching  pathos,  and  gracious  success  by  Dr.  Candlish.  It  was 
manifest  that  the  speaker  himself  was  peculiarly  solemnised."* 

With  what  feelings  men  separated  late  on  that  evening  may 
be  seen  from  the  journal  of  Dr.  Landsborough  :  "  Went  to  my 
lodgings  full  of  fears.  Prayed  for  union  and  heavenly  wisdom. 
Awoke  in  the  morning  with  a  sigh."  Next  day  he  notes  a 
change.  "  19th  November. — Went  to  Convocation.  Dr.  Chal- 
mers began  the  business.  He  seemed  sent  by  the  Lord  in 
answer  to  prayer.  The  Spirit  of  the  Lord  seemed  to  breathe 
on  the  troubled  waters.  All  became  wonderful  harmony  and 
agreement.""!-  Another  has  said  :  "  It  was  the  same  Convocation 
that  had  met  the  previous  evening,  but  how  difi'erent  its  aspect 
and  omen,  .  .  .  Light  had  broken,  and  order  was  restored.  Sud- 
denly the  heavens  became  clear,  and  there  was  a  great  calm."]: 

These  feelings  prevailed  and  deepened  through  the  five  suc- 
ceeding days  that  the  Convocation  lasted.  Men  were  obviously 
in  earnest  in  seeking  light,  the  difficulties  of  each  course  were 
conscientiously  weighed,  and  ultimately  there  came  to  be  sub- 
stantial unity. 

The  first  series  of  resolutions — passed  almost  unanimously — 
stated,  as  the  previous  Assembly  had  done,  the  only  terms  on 
which  the  Church  could  discharge  her  functions  in  connection 
with  the  State.  To  this  declaration  423  ministers  declared 
their  assent  on  the  spot,  and  the  number  was  largely  increased 
by  subsequent  adherences. 

*  Pres.  Eevieiv,  January,  1843,  pp.  584,  585. 
t  Memoir,  p.  174.  %  Pres.  lievicw,  January,  1843,  p.  585. 


THE  CONVOCATION.  53 

This  was  well ;  but  what  if  the  claims  of  the  Church  should 
be  refused  ?  Looking  to  such  an  issue  as  all  but  certain,  the 
Convocation  felt  it  their  duty  to  speak  out  in  such  terms  that 
no  blame  should  rest  with  them  if,  when  the  crisis  came,  men 
were  taken  by  surprise.  By  a  deliberate  vote,  a  second  series 
of  resolutions  was  passed,  in  which  they  pledged  themselves 
that  if  the  claim  for  redress  were  rejected,  they  would  "  tender 
the  resignation  of  those  civil  advantages  which  they  can  no 
longer  hold  in  consistency  with  the  free  and  full  exercise  of 
their  spiritual  functions."  It  was  during  the  second  week  that  this 
decision  was  come  to,  when  many  of  the  members  had  already 
gone  home  ;  but  these  resolutions  were  agreed  to  by  354  minis- 
ters, ultimately  increased  by  adherents  to  the  number  of  480. 

Before  the  Convocation  closed.  Dr.  Chalmers  unfolded  his 
scheme  for  a  Sustentation  Fund,  and  recommended  it  with  such 
eloquence  that  Dr.  Nathaniel  Paterson  exclaimed,  "  The  life- 
boat looked  almost  better  than  the  ship."  It  is  believed  that 
few,  if  any,  members  of  the  Convocation  had  the  least  idea  of 
the  far-seeing  sagacity,  worthy  of  the  highest  statesmanship, 
with  which  the  plan  was  devised.  Could  they  have  known  the 
actual  results,  their  trial  would  have  been  comparatively  light, 
but  men  only  smiled  as  they  listened  with  good-humoured 
incredulity  to  what  seemed  a  visionary  scheme.  Their  trust 
was  in  the  promised  care  of  Him  wdiose  word  cannot  fail. 

The  work  was  now  over,  but  before  closing  they  adopted 
unanimously  a  formal  and  solemn  address  to  Government,  which 
was  to  accompany  the  resolutions.  They  appointed  a  commit- 
tee to  send  deputations  throughout  the  country.  It  was  fur- 
ther agreed,  on  the  motion  of  Dr.  Lorimer,  of  Haddington,  to 
make  the  state  of  the  Church  a  subject  of  special  prayer,  a  fixed 
time  being  set  apart  for  this  purpose  in  all  their  manses  each 
Saturday  evening.  A  resolution  was  also  passed  appointing  Dr. 
James  Buchanan  to  draw  up  an  address  to  the  people  of  Scot- 
land ;  and  this  when  it  appeared  was  found  to  be  written  with 
all  his  w^ll-known  gracefulness  of  style  and  power  of  appeal, 
and  was  widely  circulated  over  the  country. 

The  last  meeting  was  in  public,  and  was  held  in  Lady  Gleh- 
orchy's  Church,  where  addresses  were  delivered  stating  the  results. 


64  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

And  so  men  prepared  to  part,  and  go  home  to  their  parishes 
with  the  feeling  that,  however  hopeless  might  be  their  appeal 
to  Government,  yet  there  was  not  only  the  unfailing  promise  of 
a  gracious  God  to  sustain  them,  but  they  had,  throughout  the 
Church,  a  gre-at  brotherhood  of  men  like-minded  with  them- 
selves, on  whose  unflinching  steadfastness  in  the  day  of  trial 
they  could  firmly  rely.  "  The  scene  we  witnessed  when  as  a 
band  of  sworn  brothers  they  stood  up  to  close  and  seal  their 
work  with  a  hymn  of  thanksgiving,  on  the  evening  of  the  24th 
November,  in  Lady  Glenorchy's  Church,  we  shall  never  forget. 
The  solemn  awe  of  eternity  had  fallen  upon  the  vast  congrega- 
tion. And  the  brethren  seemed  as  if  a  sacred  host  of  chosen 
warriors,  who  just  had  .  .  .  plighted  their  faith  to  one  another, 
and  were  now  prepared,  even  unto  death,  to  follow  the  Captain 
of  their  salvation."* 

It  may  be  well  now  to  glance  at  the  impressions  which  all 
this  made  on  the  minds  of  some  who  took  part  in  it,  as  these 
are  to  be  found  in  the  Disruption  Mss.  Dr.  Lorimer,  of  Glas- 
gow, observes  :  "  I  was  present,  heard  the  whole  discussions,  and 
gave  in  my  adhesion  without  any  reservation.  .  .  .  My  venerable 
father  was  in  the  chair  of  the  Convocation  on  the  memorable 
night,  or  rather  morning,  when  the  final  resolutions  were  voted 
upon.  It  might  be  between  two  and  three  o'clock  in  the 
morning  when  Mr.  Guthrie,  of  Edinburgh,  called  the  roll.  I 
have  ever  felt  the  Convocation  to  have  been  the  real  Disruption 
of  the  ministers.  I  was  encouraged  by  the  effects  of  the  Con- 
vocation on  the  country.  Down  to  that  moment  there  had  been 
an  ominous  and  most  discouraging  apathy.  The  decision  and 
self-denial  of  the  ministers  first  aroused  their  congregations." -f- 

Mr.  Kobertson,  of  Gartly,  one  of  the  faithful  minority  in 
Strathbogie,  who  bore  themselves  so  steadfastly  through  the 
battle  of  interdicts,  mentions  that  he  "  hailed  with  delight  the 
circular  calling  the  Convocation."  Describing  the  effect  of 
Dr.  Chalmers'  opening  sermon,  he  says  it  was  attended  *'  with 
such  Divine  wisdom  and  unction  as  to  strengthen  and  support 
me  in  my  principles ;  and  I  firmly  believe  that,  to  the  great  body 
of  ministers  who  had  the  privilege  to  hear  it,  by  God's  blessing, 
♦  Prcs.  Review.  January,  1S43,  p.  586.  t  Dis.  Mss.  i.  p.  3. 


THE  CONVOCATION.  55 

it  *  created  the  spirit  it  described,  and  conveyed  the  light  of 
which  it  showed  the  need.'  .  .  .  What  with  this  and  the  spirit 
of  prayer  and  supplication  which  was  evidently  poured  out,  I 
felt  myself  enabled  to  address  the  Convocation ;  .  .  .  and 
I  have  to  bless  the  Lord  that  what  such  an  humble  individual 
as  I  was  enabled  to  say  .  .  .  had,  from  the  circumstance  of  my 
advanced  years  and  numerous  family,  contributed  somewhat  to 
nerve  the  courage  of  some  weak  and  wavering  spirits."  *  Such 
was  the  good  man's  remembrance  within  four  years  of  the  event. 
A  report  of  what  he  actually  said  was  published  immediately 
afterwards  by  one  who  was  present :  "  I  am  advanced  in  life, 
with  a  family  of  twelve  yet  to  be  provided  for.  Above  all, 
if  I  am  driven  from  the  Church  I  must  leave  my  people ;  for 
not  a  foot  of  ground  will  I  be  allowed  within  the  parish  whereon 
to  build  a  place  of  worship.  Nevertheless,  my  family  interests, 
my  early  associations,  my  people,  whom  I  have  tended  so  long, 
I  am  willing  to  surrender  at  the  call  of  duty."  -f* 

The  remark  of  another  country  minister,  the  Kev.  K.  Inglis, 
of  Edzell,  attracted  notice  at  the  time  :  "  Some  of  my  brethren 
have  a  difficulty  in  pledging  themselves  to  go  out,  because  of 
their  numerous  families  ;  I  merely  wish  to  say  that  that  is  one 
of  my  reasons  for  resolving  to  make  the  sacrifice.  I  am  the 
father  of  a  young  family;  I  shall  have  little  to  leave  them, 
more  especially  if  we  are  forced  to  give  up  our  livings.  But  I 
want,  at  least,  to  leave  them  a  good  name — I  wish  all  my 
children,  when  I  am  gone,  to  be  able  to  say  that  they  are  the 
children  of  an  honest  man."  ^ 

*  Dis.  Mss.  xvii.  p.  2. 

t  Pres.  Review,  January,  1 843,  p.  589. 

X  He  died  19th  January,  1876,  and  his  copresbyter  and  friend,  Mr.  Nixon, 
of  Montrose,  after  mentioning  the  difficulties  which  Mr.  Inglis  had  in 
the  education  of  his  family,  in  consequence  of  the  Disruption,  adds  : 
"  It  says  much  for  the  nobleness  with  which  difficulties  can  be  overcome, 
and  the  blessing  that  rests  on  the  right  rearing  of  children,  that  the 
parents  of  the  children  in  the  Free  Manse  of  Edzell  so  reared  theirs, 
that  nine  sons  have  gone  out  into  the  world,  some  to  the  most  distant 
regions,  and  are  not  only  making  for  themselves  good  outward  positions, 
but  as  regards  the  bulk,  if  not  the  whole  of  them,  are  remembering  and 
exemplifying  the  lessons  taught  them  under  the  parental  roof." — Free 
Church  Monthly  Record,  1st  March,  1876. 


86  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

"  Mr.  M'Cheyne  was  never  absent  from  any  of  the  diets  of  this 
solemn  assembly.  He  felt  the  deepest  intere.st  in  every  matter 
that  came  before  them  ;  got  great  light  as  to  the  path  of  duty 
in  the  course  of  the  consultations  ;  and  put  his  name  to  all  the 
resolutions,  heartily  sympathising  in  the  decided  determination 
that,  as  a  Church  of  Christ,  we  must  abandon  our  connection 
with  the  State  if  "our  Claim  of  Rights  were  rejected.  These 
eight  days  were  times  of  remarkable  union  and  prayerfulness. 
The  proceedings  from  time  to  time  were  suspended  till  the 
brethren  had  again  asked  counsel  of  the  Lord  by  prayer ;  and 
none  present  will  forget  the  affecting  solemnity  with  which, 
on  one  occasion,  Mr.  M'Chejme  poured  out  our  wants  before 
the  Lord."* 

There  were  some  whose  enforced  absence  prevented  their 
taking  part  in  the  consultations,  but  whose  impressions  may 
also  be  noted.  Mr.  Taylor,  of  Flisk,  then  of  Grangemouth,  thus 
records  his  experience  :  "  Often  has  it  been  said  that  it  was  the 
inspiriting  influence  of  the  public  meetings  which  hurried  on 
our  ministers  to  take  the  steps  which  led  to  the  Disruption. 
My  own  experience  contradicts  this.  It  was  home  thought 
and  home  reflection  which  regulated  every  step  I  had  taken. 
I  sought  guidance  from  God,  and  '  with  His  eye  set  on  me,  He 
gave  me  direction.'  "  After  telling  how  he  was  one  of  those  who, 
in  the  first  instance,  thought  "  that  no  step  toward  separation 
should  be  taken  by  the  Church  herself,  but  that,  maintaining  at 
once  her  principles  and  her  position,  she  should  leave  the  awful 
responsibility  of  disestablishing  her  upon  the  State,"  he  goes  on  to 
mention  how  be  came  to  be  convinced  of  the  untenableness  of 
this  position,  "  and  well  has  it  been  for  the  eflBciency  of  our  move- 
ment that,  instead  of  wasting  her  energies  in  fruitless  litigations, 
the  Church  was  led  at  once  to  come  out  on  the  ground  of  her 
Protest."  In  estimating  the  importance  of  the  Convocation,  he 
says,  "  the  Rubicon  was  passed."  f 

A  similar  case  was  that  of  Mr.  M'Millan,  minister  of  Kilmory, 
a  parish  in  one  of  the  secluded  districts  of  the  island  of  Arrau. 
It  is  said  he  had  not  much  turn  or  taste  for  the  business  of 
Church    Courts,    and    at    Kilmory  could   with    difficulty  have 

*  Memoir,  p.  154.  t  Dis.  Mss.  xxxvii. 


THE  CONVOCATION.  57 

attended  either  Presbytery  or  Synod.  Yet  he  was  much  inter- 
ested in  Church  affairs,  and  the  interest  deepened  as  there  was 
the  prospect  of  a  serious  issue.  He  was  unable,  through  bodily 
infirmities,  to  attend  the  Convocation,  but  he  cheerfully  appended 
his  name  to  both  series  of  resolutions.  "  I  think,"  he  says, 
writing  to  a  friend  at  the  time,  "  that  the  Church  should  accept 
of  no  measure  whatever  which  leaves  her  at  the  .mercy  of  the 
Civil  Court,  for  it  is  perfectly  evident  that  the  Court  of  Session  at 
present  takes  a  kind  of  pleasure  in  opposing  and  oppressing  the 
Evangelical  party  in  the  Church.  ...  I  have  received  a  copy 
of  the  Memorial  to  Government.  The  concluding  part  of  it  is 
very  solemn  and  pressing,  and  our  rulers  must  be  perfectly 
regardless  of  the  real  welfare  of  the  nation,  and  of  their  own 
responsibility  to  God,  if  they  dare  to  set  it  at  nought." 


68  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 


.   -     VI.  Appeal  to  the  Countky. 

A  geeat  step  had  now  been  taken.  Men  stood  pledged,  if 
there  were  no  redress,  to  give  up  their  livings,  and  abandon  the 
Establishment.  It  may  well  be  believed  that,  on  returning  to 
their  parishes,  there  was  no  little  anxiety  as  to  what  impression 
all  this  would  make  on  their  people.  In  many  cases  they 
left  Edinburgh  with  the  foregone  conclusion,  not  only  that 
their  demands  would  be  rejected  in  Parliament,  but  that  they 
themselves  would  have  to  separate  from  their  congregations, 
and  to  leave  the  country.  Mr.  Thomson,  of  Muckhart,  says : 
"  My  hopes  of  success  in  the  country  districts  were  but  small. 
The  tenantry,  by  long-continued  efforts  on  the  part  of  the  gentry, 
have,  in  the  great  majority  of  instances,  in  some  districts  been 
brought  into  a  state  of  complete  subserviency  to  their  landlords 
in  political  matters  ;  and  I  fear  the  pressure  has  been  so  long 
continued,  that  even  in  reference  to  ecclesiastical  matters  there 
would  be  submission  too."  *  After  referring  to  other  discourage- 
ments, he  states  : — "  Under  these  circumstances,  I  have  been 
seriously  turning  over  in  my  mind  whether  I  should  fix  on 
Australia  or  America  as  the  scene  of  my  future  labours." 

In  regard  to  city  congregations,  Dr.  Lorimer,  of  Glasgow,  had 
similar  misgivings  :  "  It  was  impossible  to  hide  from  one's 
self  (so  we  judged  before  the  Disruption)  that  there  would  not 
be  room  in  Glasgow  for  all  who  were  certainly  resolved  to 
come  out.  The  next  consideration  with  me  was  that  those  who 
had  been  longest  in  Glasgow  .  .  .  would  naturally  be  the 
persons  to  remain.  Consequently  that  for  myself,  and  various 
other  younger  brethren,  there  was  no  course  but  to  remove  to 
a  distance.     Despairing,  or  at  least  very  doubtful,  of  finding  a 

*  Dis.  Mss.  xxviii.  p.  6. 


APPEAL  TO  THE  COUNTEY.  69 

sphere  of  usefulness  as  a  minister  of  the  Gospel  at  home,  J 
seriously  bethought  me  to  what  other  department  I  could  turn 
myself.  When  I  thought  of  the  ministry  abroad,  my  mind  turned 
towards  Canada.  Eepeatedly  did  I  speak  of  Holland  as  pro- 
bably a  cheap  and  pleasant  residence.  Mrs.  Lorimer  and  I  had 
been  not  a  little  interested  in  that  country  on  a  brief  tour 
in  1839."  * 

It  seems  strange  that  even  Mr.  M'Cheyne,  of  Dundee,  should 
have  thought  there  would  be  no  sphere  for  him  in  Scotland.  A 
copresbyter,  Mr.  Stewart,  of  Lochee,  who  returned  with  him 
from  the  Convocation,  mentions  that  they  had  been  consulting 
"  as  to  what  it  might  be  their  duty  to  do  in  the  event  of  the  Dis- 
ruption, and  where  they  might  be  scattered.  Mr.  Stewart  said  he 
could  preach  Gaelic,  and  might  go  to  the  Highlanders  in  Canada 
if  it  were  needful.  Mr.  M'Cheyne  said  :  "  I  think  of  going  to 
the  many  thousand  convicts  that  are  transported  beyond  the 
seas,  for  no  man  careth  for  their  souls."  -f-  In  the  same  spirit 
Dr.  James  Hamilton,  looking  on  the  Convocation,  and  saddened 
by  the  prospect  of  their  being  cast  out,  takes  comfort  in  the 
thought  of  what  a  blessing  it  would  be  to  the  world  if  they  were 
"  scattered  abroad,  everywhere  preaching  the  Word."  J 

It  was  with  such  feelings,  and  in  the  face  of  such  difficulties, 
men  had  to  go  forward.  In  some  cases,  when  they  returned  to 
their  parishes,  it  might  well  have  seemed  that  their  worst  fears 
were  going  to  be  realised.  At  Dundee,  Mr.  Lewis  found  that 
the  intelligence  of  the  resolution  he  had  taken  "  was  received 
generally  in  solemn  silence,  not  unfrequently,  also,  with  a  look 
of  doubt  and  hesitation,  as  if  inquiring  whether  we  had  done 
wisely.  They  were  evidently  unprepared  for  so  serious  an  issue. 
The  prudence  and  caution  of  the  national  character  now  showed 
itself  as  decidedly  as  its  love  of  the  logic  and  discussion  of  the 
question  had  in  the  preceding  ten  years.  They  seemed  to 
hang  back  and  shrink  from  the  practical  issue,  as  if  a  thing 
never  in  their  contemplation.  The  more  outspoken  would  say  : 
'  I  hope  you  have  well  thought  of  it.'  '  Are  you  sure  there  is  no 
other  course?'  'Have  you  not  been  hasty?'  ...  In  my  then 
state  of  mind,  it  seemed  as  if  the  people  were  about  to  desert 
*  Dis.  Mss.  i.  p.  4.       +  Memoir,  p.  155.        +  Harp  on  the  Willows,  p.  15. 


60  AXNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

their  ministers,  and  they  were  about  to  be  left  alone  in  that 
sacrifice  to  principle."  *     He  was  soon  to  be  undeceivecL^ 

At  Cleish,  in  Kinross-shire,  Mr.  Duncan  mentions :  "  I  had 
no  reason  to  expect  any  sympathy  from  the  greater  part  of  the 
people  of  Cleish;  ...  so  that  there  appeared  to  be  a  moral 
certainty  that  a  mere  handful  would  leave  along  with  me."  -|- 

At  Stevenston,  in  Ayrshire,  Dr.  Landsborough's  people  "  did 
not  appear  to  take  much  interest  in  the  matter.  Even  after 
the  Convocation,  which  I  attended,  the  interest  was  not  greatly 
increased,  so  that  when  meetings  were  called,  to  be  addressed 
...  on  the  state  of  the  Church,  it  was  disheartening  to  see 
that  few  attended.  As  my  own  mind  was  made  up  to  leave  the 
Establishment  if  matters  were  not  satisfactorily  settled,  my 
prospects  were  far  from  being  bright.  I  said  to  some  who  I 
knew  were  friendly:  .  .  .  *I  think  very  few  will  follow  me.' 
'  They  will,  perhaps,  be  more  numerous  than  you  expect,'  was 
the  reply."  I 

Even  at  Kilsyth,  after  the  time  of  revival,  and  the  numerous 
meetings  called  by  Dr.  Burns,  the  prospect  at  first  was  not 
encouraging.  "  When  [after  the  Convocation]  names  and  subscrip- 
tions were  called  for,  preparatory  to  the  anticipated  Disruption, 
few  seemed  ready  to  take  the  step,  .  .  .  cherishing,  no  doubt, 
the  hope  that  the  dreaded  catastrophe  might  somehow  be  averted. 
One  member,  a  pious  weaver  in  the  village,  said  that  '  as  it  was 
not  till  the  people  saw  David  going  up  by  the  ascent  of  Olivet, 
his  head  covered  as  he  went  up  barefoot,  that  all  the  people  that 
was  with  him  went  up  weeping,  ...  so  it  would  be  in  this 
case.' "  § 

One  great  difficulty  with  which  the  Church  had  to  contend  at 
the  time  was  the  general  hostility  of  the  newspaper  press,  and 
its  formidable  power  in  the  country.  Hugh  Miller  had,  indeed, 
been  for  some  years  in  the  field,  giving  powerful  aid  in  the 

*  Pres.  of  Dundee,  Parker  Mss. 

t  Dis.  Mss.  xii.  p.  1.  His  fiither,  Dr.  Duncan,  of  Ruthwell,  had  said 
(Memoir,  p.  286),  "  I  hope  none  of  my  children  will  show  the  white  feather. 
Indeed,  I  know  they  will  not."  He  was  right  in  regard  to  them  all ;  and 
not  even  the  above  discouragement  made  the  young  pastor  of  Cleish 
hesitate. 

X  Dis.  Mss.  xxxviii.  p.  1.  §  Dis.  Mss.  xxix.  p.  6. 


APPEAL  1-0  THE  COUNTRY.  61 

columns  of  the  Witness.  The  Scottish  Guardian  and  other  prints 
were  doing  valuable  work,  but  as  a  whole,  the  press  was  hostile. 
Of  the  sixty-three  newspapers  published  in  Scotland,  only  eight 
were  on  the  side  of  the  Church,*  and  the  holding  of  the  Convo- 
cation seemed  only  to  have  rendered  the  opposition  of  the  hostile 
press  more  bitter. -f-  Difference  of  political  sentiment  made  no 
difference  in  this.  "  By  asserting  the  independent  jurisdiction  of 
the  Church,"  said  Dr.  Cunningham,  "  we  have  drawn  upon  our 
head  the  wrath  of  Tories,  Wliigs,  and  Eadicals.  .  .  .  There  is 
scarcely  an  organ  of  public  opinion  that  supports  our  principles. 
And  if  you  attend  to  the  public  press  you  will  find,  perhaps,  the 
attack  of  a  High  Church  journal  on  Friday,  followed  upon  Satur- 
day by  a  Voluntary  print ;  .  .  .  but  in  spite  of  all  this  misrepresen- 
tation, ...  we  are  confident  in  the  goodness  of  our  cause." 

In  view  of  the  momentous  interests  at  stake,  it  obviously 
became  the  duty  of  the  Church,  by  means  of  deputations, 
addresses,  and  otherwise,  to  come  into  direct  communication 
with  her  people,  and  make  known  her  principles  all  over  the 
land ;  and  such  appeals,  for  the  most  part,  met  with  the  most 
hearty  and  cordial  response.  In  dealing  with  the  apathy  of  his 
people,  for  example,  above  referred  to,  Mr.  Lewis,  of  Dundee, 
delivered  a  series  of  six  lectures,  in  the  course  of  which  he 
remarks :  "  I  never  had  a  more  attentive  or  interested  auditory, 
the  same  persons  making  it  a  point  of  duty  to  hear  me  out. 
On  the  sixth  and  last  night,  I  put  the  question  :  Leave  the 
Established  Church  or  remain — when  upwards  of  400  signed 
their  adherence  [to  the  Convocation  resolutions] ;  and  subse- 

*  Life  of  Dr.  Cunningham,  p.  134. 

t  A  single  illustration  may  be  given  to  sho^Y  the  spirit  in  which  the 
warfare  was  carried  on.  Mr.  ]\Iaitland  Makgill  Crichton  was  an  active 
supporter  of  the  Church.  "  With  our  two  editorial  auxiliaries,  paste  and  the 
scissors,"  says  the  Witness,  "  we  have  been  painfully  clipping  out  and 
fastening  together  in  a  single  column  every  vituperative  scrap  of  which 
Mr.  Crichton  has  been  the  subject,  for  the  last  fortnight,  and  find, 
on  spreading  the  roll  before  us  on  the  carpet,  that  it  already  extends  to 
the  astounding  length  of  eleven  feet,  six  inches,  and  three  eighth-parts  of 
undiluted  abuse  in  one  brief  fortnight.  Depend  upon  it,  Mr.  Makgill 
Crichton  is  a  very  formidable  man.  His  efforts  are  telling  ;  he  strikes  so 
hard  that  the  blow  rebounds," — Memoir  of  INIr.  M.  Crichton,  p.  16G. 


62  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISKUPTIOII. 

quently  the  number  was  nearly  doubled.  .  .  .  On  looking  over 
the  list  ...  it  was  obvious  that  both  the  intelligence  and  heart 
of  the  congregation  were  with  us."  * 

In  most  cases  it  was  found  that  a  single  meeting  was  enough 
to  gain  the  abject.  Thus  at  Woodside,  Aberdeen,  "  the  actings 
of  the  Convocation  were  fully  explained  to  the  people.  The 
answer  of  Government  to  the  Church's  Claim  was  fully  discussed 
at  a  meeting-  held  on  the  25th  January,  and  an  adherence  of 
1145  persons  belonging  to  the  congregation  obtained. "-j-  At 
Ardoch,  in  Perthsliire,  the  Convocation  gave  a  powerful  impulse 
to  the  process  of  preparation.  "Then  was  my  congregation," 
says  Mr.  Grant,  "  convinced  that  the  Church  was  truly  in 
earnest,  that  the  principles  for  which  she  was  contending  deeply 
affected  the  glory  of  the  Eedeemer  and  vital  godliness.  .  .  . 
This  produced  a  marked  solemnity,  and  not  a  few  made  the 
difficulties  of  their  minister  to  be  their  own,  the  difficulties  of 
the  Church  their  own.  .  .  .  Two-thirds  of  my  congregation  .  ,  . 
signed  the  Convocation  resolutions."! 

At  Lesmahagow,  "  after  the  Convocation,  considerable  interest 
was  excited  throughout  the  parish.  .  .  .  The  Disruption  being 
now  to  all  appearance  inevitable,  I  deemed  it  my  duty,"  Dr. 
Parker  states,  "  to  summon  a  general  meeting  of  the  parishioners 
on  a  week-day  evening,  that  I  might  state  what  had  been  done, 
and  the  steps  that  now  behoved  to  be  taken  in  order  to  the 
maintenance  of  a  Free  Presbyterian  Church.  The  meeting  was 
peculiarly  solemn.  From  the  commencement  to  the  close  the 
deepest  attention  prevailed.  Many  were  in  tears,  and  when 
we  joined  in  singing.  Pray  that  Jerusalem  may  have  peace  and 
felicity,  &c.,  it  seemed  that  the  associations  of  many  years  were 
awakened,  and  the  spirit  of  the  olden  time  brought  back  again. 
Numbers  pressed  forward  to  subscribe  their  adherence  to  the 
resolutions  of  the  Convocation,  and  to  declare  their  determina- 
tion of  making  common  cause  with  the  faithful  ministers."^ 
The  meeting  was  held  on  the  28th  December,  a  date  which 
was  merely  fixed  as  convenient  for  the  parties,  but  it  "  was  the 
anniversary  of  the  death  of  one  of  the  martyrs  of  Lesmahagow 

*  IMr.  Lewis,  Pres.  of  Dundee,  Parker  Mss. 
t  Dis.  Ms6.  xxvii.  p.  3.       I  Dis.  Mss.  xiii.  p.  2.         §  Dis.  Mss.  xlix.  p.  8. 


APPEAL  TO  THE  COUNTRY.  63 

(1680),  Steel  of  Skellyhill,  who  was  shot  dead  at  his  own  door 
before  the  eyes  of  his  beloved  wife,  who  had  her  infant  and 
only  child  in  her  arms."* 

There  were  cases,  indeed,  in  which  the  people  went  beyond 
their  ministers  in  zeal  for  the  cause.  Mr.  Thomson,  of  Wick, 
belonged  to  the  Evangelical  party  in  the  Church,  but  as  the 
crisis  approached  he  felt  considerable  perplexity,  and  on  return- 
ing from  the  Convocation  he  called  his  people  together  on  the 
28th  November  in  order  to  explain,  which  he  did  at  some  length, 
why  he  had  not  seen  it  to  be  his  duty  to  sign  the  resolutions. 
During  his  address,  the  congregation  "  sat  looking  at  each  other 
much  astonished,"  and  after  the  meeting  had  been  dismissed, 
the  people,  on  the  motion  of  Mr.  Davidson,  banker,  sat  still, 
elected  a  chairman,  and  asked  Mr.  Thomson  to  remain  and 
listen  to  the  proceedings.  They  went  on  to  express  their  views 
with  much  personal  respect  for  their  pastor,  but  in  direct 
opposition  to  the  sentiments  of  his  address.  "  It  was  then  pro- 
posed that  solemn  thanks  should  be  offered  up  to  God  for  the 
grace  which  had  been  vouchsafed  to  the  350  members  of  the 
Convocation  who  had  bound  themselves  to  go  out,  and  this  was 
done  in  a  most  impressive  manner  by  Mr.  Donald  George."t 
At  a  second  meeting  held  shortly  after,  they  formally  adopted 
the  Convocation  resolutions ;  and  the  result  was,  that  Mr. 
Thomson  saw  it  to  be  his  duty  to  go  along  with  his  people,  a 
resolution  which  was  received  with  much  satisfaction. 

But  what  produced  the  deepest  impression  was  the  presence 
of  the  deputations  sent  forth  to  hold  meetings  and  give  addresses 
through  all  the  parishes  of  Scotland.  It  was  in  the  dead  of 
winter  that  these  movements  took  place,  at  a  time  when  the 
short  day  left  the  population  in  coimtry  districts  fully  at  leisure  ; 
and  many  a  strange  incident  of  that  stirring  time  still  lives  in 
the  memory  of  survivors. 

The  state  of  the  weather  sometimes  made  it  difficult  to  carry 
on  the  work.  At  Moy,  Dr.  M'Lauchlan  mentions  that  a  meeting 
was  called  with  the  view  of  having  the  resolutions  of  the  Con- 
vocation expounded  by  a  deputation  from  head-quarters,  con- 
sisting of  Mr.  Topp,  of  Elgin,  Mr.  Macrae,  of  Knockbain,  and  ]\Ir, 

•  Dis.  Mss.  xxxi.  pp.  5,  18.  t  IVibiess  Newspaper,  7th  Dec,  1842. 


64  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

JSttwart,  of  Cromarty.  "The  day;,  which  was  the  1 1th  of  Janua ry, 
was  stormy,  and  although  the  people  collected  in  great  nvwnbers, 
none  of  the  deputies  appeared,  akrmed  by  the  depth  of  the  snow. 
I  went  in  consequence  to  the  pulpit  myself,  and  explained  the 
object  of  the  meeting.  .  .  .  The  resolutions  were  afterwards 
signed  almost  universally  throughout  the  parish."* 

So  also  at  Kiltarlity,  in  Inverness-shire  :  "  On  Friday  [8th 
January]  the  "deputation  went  to  Kiltarlity.  From  unavoidable 
circumstances  the  intimation  was  veiy  imperfect,  and  the  parish 
church  [the  minister  being  adverse]  was  inaccessible,  yet  a 
congregation  of  700  met  the  deputation  in  the  open  air — snow 
on  the  ground — and  had  a  rustic  tent  erected  for  their  accom- 
modation. After  an  address  in  both  languages,  584  gave  in 
tlieir  names,  and  as  half  the  parish  had  not  heard  of  the  visit,  as 
many  more  names  at  least  are  expected.  The  meeting  was 
concluded  by  prayer  by  the  Catechist,  an  aged  patriarch,  the 
Christian  father  of  the  parish.  He  was  so  feeble  that  he  had 
to  be  literally  supported,  like  Moses  of  old  by  Aaron  and  Hur, 
while  standing  at  prayer."-f- 

Dr.  Macdonald's  visit  to  the  Presbytery  of  Dornoch  was 
enthusiastically  welcomed.  "  Nothing  could  be  more  triumphant 
than  the  worthy  Doctor's  defence  of  the  truths  for  which  the 
Church  is  contending,  and  nothing  more  withering  than  his 
expose  of  Moderate  principles.  The  crowds  which  assembled 
were  immense.  ...  It  showed  the  depth  of  feeling  with  which 
the  Highlanders  view  the  present  contest,  and  no  doubt  also 
their  veneration  for  the  'Apostle  of  the  North,'  .  .  .  when 
crowds  assembled  to  open  up  the  roads  which  were  blocked  with 
snow,  and  when  the  horse  could  not  carry  through  his  gig,  tlie 
Highlanders  carried  him  and  his  gig  over  all  impediments. 
Their  answer  was,  when  anything  in  the  way  of  remuneration 
was  offered,  ...  0  sir,  when  you  come  to  preach  to  us  and 
tell  us  of  our  Church  which  our  fathers  loved,  the  danger  she 
is  in,  and  that  she  looks  to  us  for  defence,  oh,  let  it  not  be  said 
that  we  would  not  do  what  we  could."  J 

While   this  was    going   on,  various   efforts  were  made   by 

*  Uis.  Mss.  xlix.  p.  8.  t  Witness  Newspaper,  11th  January,  184A 

X  Ibid.  29th  March,  1843. 


APPEAL  TO  THE  COUNTRY.  65 

opponents  to  counteract  the  movement.  Sometimes  they  had 
recourse  to  the  circulation  of  pamphlets. 

"Sir  James  Graham's  letter  [to  be  afterwards  noticed]  was 
widely  circulated  in  the  North,  but  with  little  impression.  One 
Highlander  remarked,  We  see  a  great  deal  about  the  law  in  this 
letter,  but  very  little  of  the  Gospel.  As  Mr.  Mackintosh,  of 
Tain,  and  Mr.  Matheson,  of  Kilmuir,  were  going,  through  the 
Presbytery  of  Tongue,  the  letter  was  drifting  along  before  them, 
.  .  .  thick  as  the  winter  snow ;  but  the  Gospel  .  .  .  had  a  hold 
of  the  hearts  of  the  people  which  all  law  could  not  subvert. 
One  man,  in  obedience  to  his  master's  instructions,  had  been 
seen  running  at  a  great  rate  distributing  copies.  As  he  went 
along,  his  neighbour  accosted  him.  ...  0  Donald,  what  is  all 
this  haste  for  ?  0  sir,  replied  Donald,  I  am  in  a  great  hurry, 
for  I  am  very  anxious  to  be  back  in  time  to  hear  Mr.  Mac- 
kintosh, and  sign  for  the  Church." 

Sometimes  they  applied  to  the  sheriffs  for  interdicts.  At 
Aberdeen  the  use  of  the  city  churches  was  interdicted,*  but  others, 
of  course,  were  obtained,  and  crowded  enthusiastic  meetings  of 
each  congregation  were  held.  The  whole  ministers,  without 
one  exception,  adhered  to  the  Convocation  resolutions,  and 
their  feelings  were  rendered  all  the  more  decided  because  of  the 
interdicts. 

"At  Largs, -f  in  Ayrshire,  a  meeting  was  about  to  be  held  on 
a  requisition  by  the  people,  when  a  small  laird,  whose  property 
was  rated  at  one  shilling  and  ninepence  of  yearly  stipend,  ob- 
tained an  interdict,  shutting  the  parish  church.  The  result 
was  a  triumphant  and  successful  meeting  in  the  Relief  church, 
filled  to  overflowing  by  a  most  enthusiastic  audience.  Mr. 
Scott,  of  Hawkhill,  one  of  the  principal  heritors,  was  in  the 
chair, 

"  At  Smailholm,  a  meeting  had  been  called  for  Monday,  the 
6th  of  March,  in  the  barn  of  Mr.  Dickson,  of  West  Third.  On 
the  Sabbath  afternoon,  however,  Mr.  Dickson's  landlord,  Geo. 
Baillie,  Esq.  of  Jerviswood,  sent  him  a  message  to  the  effect 
that  the  barn  was  not  to  be  given  to  the  deputation,  and  that 
Mr.  B.  would  not  allow  a  meeting  such  as  that  proposed  to  be 

*  IVitiiess  Newspaper,  18th  Jan.,  1843.  t  Ibid.  15th  Feb.  1843. 


66  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

held  on  the  premises  of  which  he  was  the  proprietor.  This 
announcement  caused  erreat  excitement  in  the  villasre,  and  as 
Mr.  Dickson  was  a  yearly  tenant,  j,he  people  resolved  that  rather 
than  expose  him  to  the  risk  of  losing  his  farm,  another  place 
should  be  sought  for,  failing  which,  they  would  willingly  stand 
in  the  open  air.  ...  At  length,  within  four  hours  of  the  time 
of  meeting,  a  carpenter's  shop  was  obtained  about  a  mile  west 
of  the  village.  -  The  place  was  filled  to  overflowing,  the  opposi- 
tion of  Mr.  Baillie  having  brought  out  many  who  might  other- 
wise have  been  absent.  .  .  .  Planks  had  been  laid  across  the 
couples  of  the  roof,  so  that  about  a  hundred  individuals  sat 
overhead  listening  to  the  speakers  although  they  could  not  see 
them.  About  two-thirds  of  the  audience  were  obliged  to  stand 
the  two  hours  and  a-half  the  meeting  lasted,  but  not  the  least 
symptom  of  impatience  was  manifested,  every  one  appearing  to 
be  more  interested  than  another."  * 

A  similar  interference  was  met  with  in  the  parish  of  Syming- 
ton. Mr.  Orr,  assistant  and  successor,  had  experienced  the 
hostility  of  the  proprietors  after  the  Convocation.  "At  the 
first  meeting  of  the  heritors,  which  took  place  about  six  weeks 
afterwards,  and  at  which  I  was  present,  Lieut.-Col.  Kelso,  of 
Dankeith,  a  retired  Indian  officer  and  the  principal  proprietor 
of  the  parish,  asked  me  if  it  was  true  that  I  had  signed  the 
resolutions  of  that  Convocation,  and  when  I  answered  in  the 
affirmative,  he  said  that  he  would  cease  to  contribute  further  a 
single  shilling  of  my  salary.  At  this  time  my  salary  was  paid 
chiefly  by  the  minister,  and  partly  by  the  voluntary  assessment 
on  the  part  of  the  heritors  ;  and  those  of  them  who  were 
present  seemed  to  acquiesce  in  the  threat  of  the  Colonel,  as 
they  said  nothing  to  the  contrary.  At  that  meeting  I  said 
nothing  further  than  that  if  they  deemed  me  unworthy  of  their 
support,  I  did  not  desire  it,  and  that  though  they  withdrew 
every  shilling  of  what  they  had  hitherto  contributed,  it  would 
not  move  me  a  single  hair's-breadth  from  the  path  of  duty,  and 
from  the  obedience  I  owed  to  the  great  Head  of  the  Church.  .  .  . 

"The  deputation  appointed  to  visit  Symington  consisted  of 
the  Kev.  Dr.  Paterson,  of  St.  Andrew's  Church,  Glasgow,  and 
*  Witness,  18th  March,  1843. 


APPEAL  TO  THE  COUNTRY.  67 

the  Rev.  Mr.  Buchan,  of  Hamilton.  I  accordingly  intimated 
from  the  pulpit,  on  a  Sabbath  in  January,  that  these  ministers 
were  about  to  visit  the  parish,  and  appointed  a  meeting  to  be 
held  in  the  church  on  the  Wednesday  evening  following,  and 
asked  the  people  to  come. 

"  And  well  did  they  respond  to  the  call,  for  nearly  the  whole 
congregation  assembled  ...  on  a  dark  night  in  the  month  of 
January,  so  interested  were  they  in  the  subject.  But,  alas, 
when  the  hour  arrived,  they  were  denied  admission  to  the 
church,  for  on  the  very  day  after  the  meeting  was  intimated 
from  the  pulpit,  Colonel  Kelso  went  to  the  Sheriff  at  Ayr  and 
obtained  an  interdict  against  the  meeting  being  held,  on  the 
ground  that  there  would  likely  be  a  disturbance  in  the  church, 
and  the  seats  might  be  damaged  and  destroyed.  A  short  time 
before  the  hour  of  meeting,  when  sitting  at  tea  with  the  deputa- 
tion, three  sheriff-officers  entered  the  room,  and  put  into  each 
of  our  hands  a  copy  of  the  interdict  which  the  Colonel  had 
obtained.  Of  such  a  thing  I  had  never  once  dreamed,  and  was 
so  taken  aback  that  for  a  time  I  could  not  speak  a  word,  and 
sat  perfectly  dumb.  And  well  do  I  recollect  the  venerable  Dr. 
Paterson  clapping  me  on  the  shoulder  and  saying,  '  Cheer  up,  man, 
there  are  worse  things  in  the  world  than  an  interdict.  You  may 
soon  find  that  it  has  done  you  a  great  deal  of  good.'  And  I 
believe  it  did,  for  the  people  were  so  irritated  at  the  way  they 
had  been  treated,  that  they  became  more  resolute  in  adhering  to 
what  they  believed  to  be  the  cause  of  righteousness  and  truth. 

"  In  the  meantime,  what  was  now  to  be  done  ?  The  people 
were  all  assembled  in  the  street,  and  could  not  be  addressed 
there  in  the  dark  winter  night.  It  was  decided  to  invite  them 
down  to  my  house.  .  .  .  This  was  accordingly  done.  Every 
room  was  filled,  all  the  doors  thrown  open,  and  the  ministers 
stood  on  chairs  in  the  lobby  and  addressed  the  people,  who  all 
heard  distinctly.  It  was  a  most  enthusiastic  meeting,  and  the 
Colonel  was  rather  roughly  handled  by  the  speakers  for  the  way 
he  had  acted  towards  the  congregation  of  which  he  himself  was 
an  office-bearer."* 

There  were  cases  in  which,  instead  of  interdicts,  opposition 
*  Dis.  Mss.  xlviii.  pp.  4-8. 


C>8  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISKUPTION. 

came  in  a  different  form,  leading  sometimes  to  rather  remarkable 
scenes.  "  At  Torosay,"  Mr.  Middleton  states,  "  I  remember  when 
two  esteemed  clergymen,  the  Eev.  P.  Macbride,  Rothesay,  and 
the  Rev.  Finlay  Macpherson,  of  Kilbrandon,  were  on  a  tour 
in  Ai)iil,  1843,  explaining  the  state  of  Church  affairs,  while 
preaching  to  a  congregation  of  from  300  to  400,  at  the  Bridge 

of  Loch-don-headj  that  Mr. hurriedly  rode  up  to  the  spot 

where  the  service  was  going  on,  said  that  he  was  the  son  of  one 
of  the  heritors,  that  he  had  a  deep  interest  in  the  welfare  of  the 
people,  that  he  had  a  high  esteem  for  the  parish  minister,  and 
that  he  warned  the  people  against  those  who  were  now  going 
among  them  to  seduce  and  draw  them  from  the  Church  of  their 
fathers,  or  words  to  that  effect ;  and  he  concluded  by  taking  ofif 
his  hat  and  calling  for  three  cheers  for  Mr.  Clark,  the  parish 
minister.  The  officiating  clergyman  took  no  notice  of  this 
strange  proceeding,  and  very  little  heed  was  given  to  it  by  the 
people  in  the  way  of  resijonse,  though  it  created  a  great  sensa- 
tion in  the  audience.  Only  one  man  took  off  his  hat — the 
schoolmaster — and  even  he,  as  if  ashamed,  replaced  it  imme- 
diately upon  his  head."  * 

Mr.  Wood,  of  Elie,  describes  his  visit  to  the  southern  districts 
of  Dumfriesshire : — 

"In  the  winter  of  1842-43,  the  Disruption  being  now  con- 
sidered inevitable,  deputations  were  sent  out,  under  the  auspices 
of  the  Convocation  which  had  met  in  Edinburgh,  to  different 
parts  of  the  country.  Among  others,  Mr.  Jollie,  of  Bowden,  and 
I  were  commissioned  to  visit  Dumfriesshire.  Having  stayed  all 
the  previous  night  at  Bowden  Manse,  I  started  with  Mr.  Jollie 
on  Monday,  the  30th  January,  We  travelled  in  my  gig,  by  a 
road  the  remarkable  scenery  of  which  is  little  seen  now-a-days, 
dining  at  Mosspaul,  and  arriving  at  Langholm  about  9  p.m. 
Next  afternoon  we  were  joined  by  Mr.  Clarke,  of  Half  Morton, 
who  was  one  of  the  deputation,  and  who  had  the  charge  of  the 
local  arrangements.  That  evening  we  held  our  first  meeting  in 
the  Secession  Meeting  House — U.  P.  was  a  title  yet  unknown, 
nor  did  the  Seceders  at  that  time  call  their  places  of  worship 
churches.  Our  meeting  was  most  successful,  crowded  to  the 
*  Dis.  Mss.  ix.  pp.  2,  3. 


APPEAL  TO  THE  COUNTRY.  69 

very  doors.  One  incident  which  occurred  has  fixed  itself  in  my 
memory,  and  deserves  to  be  recorded.  I  was,  I  think,  the  last 
speaker,  and  after  dwelling  on  the  encroachments  made  by  the 
Court  of  Session,  confirmed  by  the  final  judgment  of  the  House 
of  Lords,  and  on  the  manner  in  which  we  had  been  treated  in 
Parliament,  where  the  voice  of  the  Scottish  Members  had  been 
altogether  overborne  by  the  English  majority,  I  said,  on  tlie 
spur  of  the  moment,  that  such  injustice  was  enough  to  justify 
Scotland  in  demanding  the  repeal  of  the  Union.  With  that,  to 
my  surprise,  and  somewhat  to  my  consternation,  the  meeting 
rose  as  one  man,  waving  hats  and  handkerchiefs,  and  cheering 
again  and  again.  No  doubt  the  enthusiastic  feelings  of  the 
people  assisted  our  object,  but  I  took  care  not  to  speak  of  repeal 
of  the  Union  at  our  subsequent  meetings. 

"  Next  day  we  drove  out  to  Eskdalemuir,  a  sort  of  colony  of 
Cameronians,  where  we  had  a  very  good  meeting  in  the  Cam- 
eronian  place  of  worship.  We  stayed  all  night  with  Mr.  Walter 
Laidlaw,  and  in  the  morning  visited  Hislop's  grave,  which  is 
close  by.  Then  we  started  for  Ewes  in  a  snow-storm,  resting  at 
Westerkirk  on  the  way.  At  Ewes  we  held  a  meeting  in  a  barn 
belonging  to  Mr.  Comyn,  with  whom  we  stayed  all  night.  The 
day  after  we  went  to  Half  Morton,  and  held  meetings  at  Water- 
beck  and  Gretna,  and  on  Saturday  at  Half  Morton  itself,  where 
I  preached  on  Sunday,  5th  February,  from  Zeph.  i.  12.  On 
Monday  I  drove  Mr.  Clarke  from  Half  Morton  to  Lockerby, 
where  we  had  an  excellent  meeting  in  the  evening.  Next  day 
we  started  for  Dinwiddle,  in  the  parish  of  Applegarth.  Mr. 
Jollie  and  I  were  in  the  gig,  and  Mr.  Clarke  was  riding  in 
advance  of  us,  evidently  rehearsing  a  speech  to  himself,  and 
amusing  us  now  and  then  by  the  involuntary  action  which 
accompanied  his  mental  labours.  The  day  was  intensely  cold, 
and  the  '  roaring  game,'  so  keenly  engaged  in  during  winter  in 
Dumfriesshire,  was  in  full  play  on  every  pool  and  lakelet.  As 
we  drew  near  the  place  of  our  destination,  groups  of  curlers 
were  overtaken  on  the  road  carrying  their  stones  and  brooms. 
'  Depend  upon  it,'  said  I,  '  they  have  got  up  a  bonspiel  on  the 
ice  to  engage  the  people,  and  prevent  them  from  coming  to  our 
meeting.'     The  case,  however,  turned  out  to  be  far  otherwise. 


70  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

The  Rev.  Dr.  Dunbar,  minister  of  Applegarth,  indignant  that 
his  parish,  hitherto  as  thoroughly  under  Moderate  rul^  as  any 
in  Scotland,  should  be  invaded  by  a  band  of  uncommissioned 
agitators,  sent  intimation  through  the  parish  that  all  must 
attend  the  meeting — that  he  would  himself  be  present,  and 
would  soon  scatter  it.  Nay,  so  great  was  the  interest  which  he 
took  in  the  matter,  that  he  had  that  morning  gone  down  to  the 
ice,  and  brought  up  a  whole  band  of  curlers,  telling  them  that 
there  was  more  important  work  on  hand. 

"This  we  learned  on  our  arrival  atDinwiddie,  and  found  that 
the  crowds  we  had  seen  trooping  along  the  road  bearing  their 
curling  implements,  were  not  going  to  the  ice,  as  we  had  sup- 
posed, but  were  coming  y*?-om  it,  many  of  them  sorely  grudging 
the  loss  of  a  day's  play.  The  barn,  one  of  the  largest  in  the 
country,  was  crowded  to  the  doors ;  ladders,  couples,  the  top  of 
the  thrashing  machine,  all  were  thronged,  and  a  meeting  had 
been  got  together  for  us  by  our  opponents  far  larger  than  we  had 
ever  expected  to  see  in  so  remote  a  part  of  the  country.  Mr. 
Jollie  having  opened  the  meeting  with  prayer,  Dr.  Dunbar  rose 
and  said  that  he  and  his  parishioners  had  come  to  hear  what  the 
deputation  had  to  say.  Mr.  Clarke  addressed  the  meeting  at 
some  length,  and  at  the  close  of  his  speech  made  some  allusion 
to  the  reply  he  expected  from  Dr.  Dunbar.  That  gentleman, 
however,  declared  that  before  he  opened  his  mouth  he  wished 
to  hear  all  that  the  deputation  had  to  say.  Of  course,  no 
objection  could  be  made  to  this,  and  I  went  on  with  my  address, 
stating  however  at  the  outset,  that  I  intended  to  take  the  op- 
portunity of  replying  to  any  remarks  which  Dr.  Dunbar  might 
make,  and  that  we  (the  deputation)  would  shorten  our  addresses 
in  order  that  full  time  might  be  given  to  him.  Accordingly, 
when  I  had  concluded,  Mr.  Jollie  declined  to  make  any  remarks. 
Dr.  Dunbar  then  rose,  and  after  a  speech,  in  which  he  never 
even  attempted  to  reply  to  the  arguments  which  had  been 
adduced,  jiroposed  a  resolution  to  the  effect,  that  the  meeting 
disapprove  of  the  conduct  of  the  deputation  in  intruding  into 
other  parishes ;  '  and  those '  added  the  Doctor,  '  who  think  with 
me  have,  of  course,  no  longer  any  business  here.'  Considerable 
excitement  was  occasioned   by  this  proposition ;    half  uttered 


APPEAL  TO  THE  COUNTPvY.  71 

niurmunngs  of  'shame'  and  'uiiiuanly'  were  heard,  in  the 
midst  of  which  a  farmer  of  the  parish  seconded  the  resolution. 
Dr.  Dunbar  then  called  for  a  show  of  hands,  but  to  this  I  stoutly 
objected  until  the  reply  which  I  had  risen  to  make  should  have 
been  heard.  '  Then,  my  friends,'  said  Dr.  Dunbar,  '  you  have 
no  longer  anything  to  do  here.'  '  We  shall  be  sorry,'  was  our 
reply,  '  if  Dr.  Dunbar  leaves  us,  but  if  a  vote  is  to  ,be  taken,  this 
can  only  be  done  after  a  reply  has  been  made,  according  to  the 
arrangement  proposed  at  the  outset.'  Dr.  Dunbar,  however, 
was  not  to  be  detained,  and  left  the  place,  accompanied,  however, 
only  by  eleven  persons.  Some  few  more  left  the  barn  along 
with  him,  but  returned  as  soon  as  he  was  well  out  of  sight. 
Mr,  Clarke  and  I  then  replied  at  length,  pointing  out  the  gross 
Erastianism  of  Dr.  Dunbar's  statement,  and  at  the  close  of  the 
proceedings,  the  people  crowded  round  us,  expressing  their  regret 
that  we  could  not  remain  with  them  an  hour  or  two  longer. 
This,  however,  was  impossible,  as  we  had  to  address  a  meeting 
at  Wamphray  in  the  evening.  The  moral  effect  of  this  meeting 
was  very  great  over  a  large  district  of  country.  That  a  man 
whose  character  was  so  thoroughly  respected,  should  have  been 
defeated  in  his  own  parish  by  three  strangers  showed  plainly 
the  direction  in  which  public  feeling  was  tending. 

" '  The  battle  of  Dinwiddle,'  as  it  was  called,  became  a  fertile 
theme  for  ballads,  articles,  and  correspondence  in  the  local 
papers.  I  am  sorry  that  I  have  not  preserved  any  of  them, 
of  which  many  were  sent  to  me  by  friends  in  Dumfriesshire, 
during  the  months  which  followed  my  return  home."  * 

Yet  another  of  these  meetings  may  be  noticed,  and  one  in 
which  the  opponents  were  successful.  The  account  has  been 
thrown  by  the  reporter  into  a  form  somewhat  grotesque,  but  in 
regard  to  the  facts  themselves  it  is  certified  as  correct. 

"  On  Thursday  evening,  January  19,  agreeably  to  a  previous 
intimation  by  handbill,  a  large  number  of  the  parishioners  of 
Fiutray  [Aberdeenshire],  assembled  at  Mr.  Geo.  Knight's,  Cothill, 
for  the  purpose  of  hearing  addresses  from  the  Rev.  Mr.  Macdonald, 
of  Blairgowrie,  and  other  ministers,  on  the  subject  of  the  position 
and  prospects  of  the  Church.  Now  in  this  parish  there  resides  a 
*  Dis.  Mss.  1.  pp.  18-21. 


72  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 

Mr.  Strachan,wlio  is  Sir  John  Forbes'  factor.  He  commanded  tlu- 
people  to  go  home.  As  factor  he  did  this,  of  course.  The^eoplc 
refused,  and  stayed  till  the  ministers  came.  As  the  ministers  were 
approaching,  they  were  met  at  a  little  distance  from  the  pre- 
mises where  the  meeting  was  to  be  held  by  Mr.  Strachan  and 
one  or  two  of  his  friends,  whose  object  it  was,  now  that  the 
meeting  could  not  be  prevented  by  dispersing  the  audience,  to 
prevent  it  by.  sending  the  ministers  away.  They  first  coaxed, 
which  was  proper,  and  then  threatened,  which  was  natural,  but 
the  ministers  did  not  go  back,  but  went  in.  They  found  between 
two  and  three  hundred  individuals  waiting  to  hear  them.  But 
hear  them  they  could  not.  Mr.  Strachan,  with  a  large  thick 
stick  in  his  hand,  ascended  the  platform,  and  began  to  use  all 
the  means  he  had  of  making  a  noise — i.e.,  to  bawl  at  the  pitch 
of  his  voice,  and  strike  with  his  stick  as  hard  as  he  could.  What 
between  the  articulate  noise  from  his  own  head  and  the  inar- 
ticulate noise  from  the  head  of  his  stick — the  difference  between 
the  two  being  that  his  head  cried,  Oh,  oh,  and  the  head  of  his 
stick  cried.  Whack,  whack — it  was  impossible  for  any  other  voice 
to  be  heard  than  his  and  his  stick's.  Three  of  the  members  of 
the  deputation  went  upon  the  platform  and  attempted  to  obtain 
a  hearinc',  but  upon  this  Mr.  Strachan  and  his  stick  called  in 
the  powerful  assistance  of  Mr.  James  Crombie,  manufacturer, 
and  his  stick  (if  he  had  one),  who  is  a  relative  to  the  family  of 
the  minister  of  the  parish  (Mr.  Crombie,  we  mean,  not  his  stick), 
and  six  other  individuals  and  their  sticks,  and  thus  noise  was 
produced  sufficient  to  deafen  any  voice.  An  offer  was  made  on 
the  part  of  the  deputation  to  hear  all  the  men  of  the  party,  and 
we  suppose  we  may  say  also  all  the  sticks  of  the  party,  in 
regular  succession — first,  a  man  and  then  a  stick,  then  another 
man  and  then  another  stick,  till  they  had  all  delivered  theij 
opinion,  upon  condition  that  the  members  of  the  deputation 
should  then  be  heard  in  turn,  and  that  no  man  and  no  stick 
should  interrupt  them.  This  condition  the  men  and  the  sticks 
unanimously  refused  to  agree  to,  and  then  the  men  bellowed 
more  beautifully  and  the  sticks  beat  louder  than  ever.  By  this 
time  it  was  apparent  to  the  members  of  the  deputation  that  if 
they  remained  longer  serious  consequences  were  inevitable,  owing 


APPEAL  TO  THE  COUNTKY.  73 

to  the  now  excited  feelings  of  many  of  the  parishioners,  and 
therefore  the  meeting  broke  up.  Mr.  Moir  and  Capt.  Shepherd 
retired  into  Mr.  Knight's  dwelling-house,  and  Messrs.  Mac- 
donald  and  Spence  remaining  without,  and  waiting  for  the 
chance  of  an  opportunity  to  address  the  people.  This  they 
partially  obtained."  * 

Even  in  that  district,  however,  there  was  one  whose  appearance 
made  its  way  to  men's  hearts  amidst  all  the  excitement  and 
hostility  which  prevailed.  Mr.  M'Cheyne  "  accompanied  Mr. 
Alexander,  of  Kirkcaldy,  to  visit  the  districts  of  Deer  and  Ellon, 
districts  over  which  he  yearned,  for  Moderatism  had  held  un- 
disputed sway  over  them  for  generations."  It  was  no  easy  work. 
During  the  space  of  three  weeks,  he  preached  and  spoke  at 
meetings  in  four-and-twenty  places,  sometimes  more  than  once 
in  the  same  place.  On  14th  February,  he  writes  :  "  The  weather 
has  been  delightful  till  now,  to-day  the  snow  is  beginning  to 
drift."  On  the  24th,  he  says :  "  To-day  is  the  first  we  have 
rested  since  leaving  home,  so  that  I  am  almost  overcome  with 
fatigue."  One  who  tracked  his  footsteps  a  month  after  his 
death  states  that  "  sympathy  with  the  principles  of  our  suffering 
Church  was  awakened  in  many  places ;  but,  above  all,  a  thirst 
was  excited  for  the  pure  Word  of  Life.  His  eminently  holy 
walk  and  conversation  .  .  .  were  specially  felt.  ...  In  one 
place  where  a  meeting  had  been  intimated  the  people  assembled, 
resolving  to  cast  stones  at  him  as  soon  as  he  should  begin  to 
speak,  but  no  sooner  had  he  begun  than  his  manner,  his  look, 
his  words  riveted  them  all,  and  they  listened  with  intense 
earnestness,  and  before  he  left  the  place  the  people  gathered 
round  him,  entreating  him  to  stay  and  preach  to  them.  One 
man  who  had  cast  mud  at  him  was  afterwards  moved  to  tears 
on  hearing  of  his  death."  + 

Such  incidents  taking  place  in  districts  so  widely  separated 

*  Witiiess,  25th.  January,  1843.  Dr.  Spence,  of  Aberdeen,  states  :  "The 
scene  described  is  one  of  which  I  have  a  most  vivid  recollection,  and  is 
literally  true,  though  described  in  a  burlesque  style.  .  .  .  Unfortunately, 
I  was  the  only  one  of  the  party  who  had  a  white  neckcloth,  .  .  .  and  they 
directed  their  fury  mainly  against  me." — In.  lit.  22nd  Nov.,  1875. 

t  Memoir,  p.  167. 


74  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

may  give  some  idea  of  what  was  going  on  all  over  Scotland,  but 
only  those  who  lived  through  that  time  can  understand  the 
agitation  which  shook  all  classes  of  society,  and  the  struggles 
and  difficulties  in  the  midst  of  which  the  cause  of  the  Church 
had  to  be  maintained^ 


CLOSE  OF  THE  STRUGGLE.  75 


VI J.  Ct.ose  op  THE  Struggle. 

It  was  while  men  were  thus  engaged  that  the  answer  to  the 
claims  of  the  Church,  by  the  Government  and  the  House  of 
Commons,  at  last  came,  and  gave  a  new  impulse  and  direction 
to  the  movement.  On  the  4th  of  January,  Sir  James  Graham 
transmitted  his  celebrated  letter,  in  which  the  Crown,  through 
its  advisers,  formally  rejected  the  appeal  of  the  Church,  and 
intimated  that  Patronage  must  be  maintained  in  its  strin- 
gency. The  letter  was  found  to  contain  obvious  misrepre- 
sentations, such  as  the  allegation  that  the  Claim  of  the  Church 
was  identical  with  the  claims  of  Popery.  It  was  mortifying 
to  find  Government  having  recourse  to  such  special  pleading ; 
but  whatever  might  be  thought  on  this  and  other  points,  the 
hostility  of  at  least  one  branch  of  the  Legislature  was  now 
decisively  declared.  All  that  remained  was  to  appeal  to  Parlia- 
ment, An  extraordinary  meeting  of  the  Commission  was  called 
for  the  31st  of  January,  when  it  was  resolved  to  petition  the 
House  of  Commons,  and  make  one  final  attempt,  even  at  the 
eleventh  hour,  to  arrest  the  catastrophe.  Mr.  Fox  Maule 
having,  accordiugly,  presented  this  petition,  proceeded,  on  the 
7th  of  March,  to  move  the  House  for  a  committee  to  examine 
and  report  on  the  grievances  complained  of.  With  singular 
ability  Mr.  Maule  and  others  who  followed  pled  the  cause, 
Mr.  Rutherfurd  especially  signalising  the  occasion  by  a  masterly 
argument  founded  on  the  laws  and  constitution  of  Scotland. 
With  no  less  singular  unanimity  did  Sir  R.  Peel,  Sir  J.  Graham 
and  other  opponents  evade  all  these  grounds  of  fact  and  argu- 
ment, taking  refuge  in  vague  generalities  and  preconceived 
opinions.*  But  the  vote  was  decisive.  By  a  majority  of  211 
against  76  the  Claim  of  the  Church  was  thrown  out,  the  House 

*  This  seems  to  have  struck  impartial  observers,  even  when  they  did  not 
agree  with  the  Church.     The  distinguished  naturalist,  Dr.  Johnston,  of 


76  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION, 

refusing  even  to  go  through  the  form  of  an  inquiry.  "  It  is  not 
undeserving  of  notice  that  of  the  37  Scotch  Members^  who 
were  present  at  the  division,  25 -voted  for  Mr.  Maule.  It  was 
not  simply,  therefore,  the  voice  of  Scotland's  Church,  but  the 
voice  of  her  national  representatives  that  was  that  night  over- 
borne in  the  British  Parliament.  The  fact  is  one  which  an  im- 
partial posterity  will  mark  and  remember."  * 

Had  the  statesmen  of  that  day  known  what  they  were  doing, 
probably  some  via  media  would  have  been  at  least  attempted, 
some  temporising  expedient  to  hold  parties  together,  as  in  sub- 
sequent decisions  connected  with  the  Church  of  England.  But 
statesmen  in  authority  had  not  yet  been  scared  by  the  effect  of 
their  own  work  in  dealing  with  these  Church  questions.  In 
1848,  they  were  told  that  a  little  firmness  was  all  that  was 
required.  It  was  only  the  clergy  of  Scotland  who  had  to  be 
dealt  with,  and  if  the  great  Tory  and  Whig  parties  would  com- 
bine to  bring  down  all  the  weight  of  imperial  authority,  then, 
though  a  few  of  the  leaders  of  the  Church — firebrands  they 
were  called — might  go  out,  yet  the  Evangelical  party,  as  a 
whole,  would  succumb.  All  difiiculty  would  be  cleared  away, 
and  the  great  question  would  be  settled. 

Beyond  all  doubt,  it  was  settled.  On  that  memorable  7th 
of  March,  earnest  eyes  from  all  parts  of  Scotland  had  been 
turned  towards  the  House  of  Commons.  "  An  eventful  night, 
Mr.  M'Cheyne  wrote,  this  in  the  British  Parliament.  Once 
more  King  Jesus  stands  at  an  earthly  tribunal,  and  they  know 
Him  not."    It  was  even  so.    Worldly  politicians  did  their  work, 

Berwick-on-Tweed,  one  of  the  most  amiable  of  men,  writes  to  Dr.  Lands- 
borough,  of  Stevenston  :  "  I  have  read  the  discussion  in  the  House  of 
Commons  on  your  kii-k  question,  and  the  result  pained  me.  You  have 
never  since  been  out  of  my  mind,  nor  can  I  dissever  your  name  from 
Stevenston  Manse,  though  I  fear  you  will  be  cruel  enough  to  separate 
from  it  bodily.  I  will  say  nothing,  but  surely  you  will  allow  me  to  weep 
at  such  a  stern  resolve.  ...  So  far  as  I  can  judge,  the  speech  of  Mr. 
Rutherfurd  was  never  answered,  and  the  arguments  of  Sir  James  Graham 
and  Sir  Robert  Peel  were  rather  of  what  would  be  expedient  were  a  new 
law  to  be  made  than  a  reply  to  the  law  of  the  Church,  as  established  by 
several  solemn  Acts." — Memoir  of  Dr.  Landsborough,  p.  182. 
*  Ten  Years'  Conflict,  vol.  ii.  p.  427. 


CLOSE  OF  THE  STKUGGLE.  77 

intelligence  was  sent  forth  over  Scotland  that  the  final  blow 
had  been  struck,  and  it  may  be  interesting  to  note  one  or  two 
examples  showing  how  the  news  was  received,  not  only  in  cities, 
but  in  quiet,  rural  parishes. 

Dr.  Landsborough,  of  Stevenston,  thus  refers  to  his  service 
on  the  succeeding  Sabbath  :  "  12th  March,  1843. — In  the  after- 
noon my  discourse  was  intentionally  suited  to  ,the  peculiar 
circumstances  in  which  we  were  placed  after  the  news  had 
come  that  Parliament  had  resolved  to  give  us  no  relief,  and 
that,  consequently,  we  must  leave  our  churches  and  homes.  Oh, 
may  grace  be  given  to  us  to  glorify  God  in  the  fires  !  May  the 
affliction  be  sanctified  to  us,  to  wean  us  more  from  the  world, 
and  to  fit  us  more  for  heaven ;  and  do  Thou,  0  God,  overrule 
the  trying  dispensation  for  Thine  own  glory,  and  for  the  good  of 
Thy  Church  and  people."* 

In  the  case  of  Dr.  Mackintosh,  of  Dunoon,  then  of  Tain,  we 
get  almost  a  photograph  of  one  of  those  who,  in  their  far-ofi" 
quiet  manses,  were  intently  watching  the  result.  "  A  son  of  one 
of  his  elders,  who  was  but  a  little  boy  in  that  eventful  year, 
and  could  understand  little  of  what  was  about  to  occur,  has 
given  us  a  graphic  account  of  the  effect  produced  on  his  youth- 
ful mind  by  the  minister's  demeanour  on  the  morning  when 
tidings  came.  .  .  .  One  morning  in  the  spring  of  1843  I 
jumped  early  out  of  bed,  for  my  head  was  full  of  marbles  and 
pegtops,  and  a  dozen  or  so  of  games  before  breakfast  has  its 
attractions  for  a  schoolboy.  To  my  astonishment,  I  found  my 
father  down  before  me — nay,  he  had  evidently  been  there  for 
some  time,  for  the  moment  I  appeared  he  folded  up  the  news- 
paper on  which  he  had  been  so  unseasonably  engaged,  and  with 
a  break  in  his  voice,  indicating  an  emotion  that  was  quite  un- 
accountable to  me,  he  asked  me  to  take  it  at  once  to  the  manse, 
with  his  compliments  to  the  minister.  My  visit  was  shorter 
than  I  anticipated,  for  I  had  scarcely  got  out  of  the  sunshine 
into  the  manse  evergreens  when  I  found  the  minister  in  the 
porch,  and  when  I  offered  him  the  newspaper  he  showed  me 
that  he  had  already  got  the  Times  by  some  unusual  express, 
and  as  he  spoke,  he  patted  my  head  and  smiled ;  but  such  a 
*  Memoir,  p.  176. 


78  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 

smile  !  so  full  of  radiant  kindness.  I  was  confounded,  and  as  I 
went  back  between  the  hedges,  the  birds  sang  unheeded  while 
I  thought  what  could  have  come^  over  the  minister.  Had  any- 
body left  him  a  fortune  ?  or  had  he  met  one  of  the  Shining 
Ones  walking  .among  the  hollies  in  that  early  dawn  ?  And  it 
was  not  for  some  weeks  that  I  found  out  that  this  was  what 
had  happened — the  newspaper  that  morning  had  brought  him 
the  vote  of  the  House  of  Commons  finally  refusing  an  inquiry 
into  the  affairs  of  the  Scottish  Church,  and  so  making  it  certain 
that  within  a  few  weeks  he  would  leave  for  ever  the  home,  at 
the  door  of  which  I  saw  him,  in  which  his  father  had  dwelt 
before  him,  and  which  he  now  would  have  to  leave  without 
stipend,  and  not  knowing  what  was  before  him.  Of  course,  he 
came  out."* 

The  feeling  of  gladness  thus  expressed  it  was  not  difficult 
to  understand.  Men  were  thankful  that  the  path  of  duty  had 
at  last  been  made  so  plain.  The  fear  had  been  that  Govern- 
ment, as  Dr.  Guthrie  says,  "  would  bring  in  a  Bill  which,  if  it 
won't  please  us,  will  be  made  so  as  if  possible  to  entrap  us."  It 
was  the  only  danger  which  threatened  to  separate  between 
brethren,  and  so  make  shipwreck  of  the  cause.  The  refusal  of 
Parliament  even  to  go  through  the  form  of  an  inquiry  put  an 
end  to  all  such  anxiety.  It  was  an  unspeakable  relief  to  be 
delivered  from  all  harassing  suspense,  and  to  find  that  God  had 
in  His  goodness  made  the  way  so  plain,  that  he  who  ran  might 
read.     All  that  remained  was  to  make  ready. 

While  this  was  going  on,  it  must  not  be  supposed  that  the 
Moderate  party,  on  their  side,  were  idle.  In  1841  they  had 
already  gone  to  Government  and  asked  them  definitely  to  make 
their  choice  as  to  whether  they  or  their  opponents  were  to  be 
the  Church  of  the  nation.  They  knew  that  they  were  them- 
selves safe  in  making  this  conclusive  appeal  to  Government, 
and  their  application,  therefore,  was  merely  a  request  for  the 
expulsion  of  Dr.  Chalmers  and  his  friends.  The  Government, 
however,  declined  to  move. 

At  last  the  Stewarton  decision,  casting  out  the  quoad  sacra 
ministers,  put  a  weapon  into  eager  hands  which  was  at  once 
*  Memoir,  p.  56. 


CLOSE  OF  THE  STRUGGLE.  79 

used,  not  only  to  hasten,  but  to  antedate  the  Disruption.  With- 
out waiting  till  the  decree  became  final — for  the  question  of 
appeal  was  pending  when  Dr.  Cook,  at  the  Commission,  gave 
the  signal — they  proceeded  to  break  up  Presbyteries  and  Synods. 
At  the  first  meeting  of  the  Presbytery  of  Irvine,  for  example, 
they  moved  the  expulsion  of  the  quoad  sacra  ministers ;  and 
when  the  vote  went  against  them,  they  rose  in  a  body,  left  the 
Court,  with  Dr.  Norman  Macleod  at  their  head,  held  a  separate 
meeting,  and  constituted  a  rival  Presbytery.  Dr.  Bryce,  their 
historian,  admits,  rather  boastfully,  that  this  was  in  "  thorough 
contempt  of  all  ecclesiastical  authority,"  In  Moderate  Presby- 
teries and  Synods,  where  the  vote  went  the  other  way,  the 
Evangelical  party  refused  to  abandon  their  brethren,  and  had 
in  self-defence  to  take  a  similar  course.  Already  in  her  essen- 
tial Courts  the  Church  was  broken  up  ;  but  it  should  be  noticed 
that  it  was  the  Moderate  party — the  men  who  ultimately  formed 
the  Establishment — who  took  the  initiative,  and  Dr.  Bryce  is 
anxious  that  the  glory  of  the  first  step  should  be  reserved  for 
those  to  whom  it  is  due,  the  Presbytery  of  Fordyce. 

These  parting  scenes,  when  men  went  asunder  never  again 
to  reunite,  were  often  striking,  and  in  some  cases  painful. 

At  Linlithgow,  when  Dr.  Bell  moved  the  expulsion  of 
his  quoad  sacra  brethren,  "  It  was  mine,"  says  Mr.  Taylor, 
of  Grangemouth,  "  to  reply ;  and  although  I  rose  with  a 
faltering  tongue,  this  being  my  first  endeavour  to  express  my 
views  in  a  Church  Court,  I  was  yet  enabled  to  speak  in  defence 
of  my  position  to  the  approbation  of  my  brethren.  I  chal- 
lenged Dr.  Bell  to  discuss  the  question  as  a  Doctor  of  Divinity, 
and  not  to  skulk  behind  the  decision  of  a  Law  Court,  With 
the  ecclesiastical  functions  of  a  minister  the  Law  Courts 
had  nothing  to  do,  either  constitutionally  or  scripturally.  The 
Church,  upon  scriptural  and  presbyterian  grounds,  had  given 
me  my  standing  as  a  member  of  Court,  and  upon  these  grounds 
I  was  prepared  to  maintain  my  position."*  For  an  onlooker  it 
must  have  been  interesting  to  observe  the  silence  with  which 
this  challenge  was  received,  and  the  way  in  which  the  motion 
was  allowed  to  drop. 

*  Dis.  Mss.  xxxvii.  p.  3 


80  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 

At  Glasgow,  when  Principal  Macfarlane  moved  the  expulsion 
of  h\s^  quoad  sacra  brethren,  Mr.  Arnot  demanded  that, -if  this 
were  done,  they  should  come  to'St,  Peter's  and  remove  one-half 
of  the  ordination, vow  which  they  had  laid  on  him  when  he  was 
taken  bound  to  exercise  discipline  in  his  congregation  through 
means  of  his  kirk-session.  It  must  have  been  a  remarkable 
thing  to  observe  the  way  in  which  this  demand  was  ignored. 

In  the  Synod  of  Dumfries  the  proposal  of  the  Moderate 
party  was  carried  by  vote,  and  only  they  who  knew  the  per- 
sonal attachment  of  the  two  brothers  here  referred  to  can 
understand  the  scene  : — "  Previous  to  the  great  Disruption, 
Synods  felt  the  shock.  Hot  words  had  passed  in  that  of  Dum- 
fries, and  those  who  ultimately  became  Free  Churchmen  arose 
and  left  the  Synod.  Dr.  Duncan  sat  still,  with  his  face  covered, 
till  the  bustle  of  departure  was  over ;  then  rose  and  took  leave 
of  his  old  associates  with  the  meekness  of  wisdom  which 
belonged  to  him.  His  poor,  dear  brother,  still  minister  of  the 
New  Church  [Established],  Dumfries,  who  had  never  in  life 
before  parted  from  him,  laid  his  head  on  the  table  and  sobbed 
aloud,  and  many  were  moved." 

*  Dis.  Mss.  xvLp.  4. 


>^ 


PR.    CHALMERS. 


MAKING  READY.  81 


Vin.  Making  Eeady. 

Meantime  the  loud  note  of  preparation  was  being  sounded 
over  the  land.  From  the  7th  of  March  till  the  18th  of  May 
the  weeks  were  few  enough  for  474  ministers,  and  a  still  larger 
number  of  congregations,  to  get  ready.  But  not  a  moment  was 
lost.  A  committee  of  the  most  distinguished  ministers,  and 
not  a  few  of  Scotland's  ablest  laymen,  met  daily  at  headquar- 
ters. Plans  were  matured,  agents  commissioned  to  organise 
the  parishes,  and  a  series  of  weekly  "  communications "  sent 
out,  and  so  eagerly  welcomed,  that  an  impression  of  150,000 
copies  sometimes  failed  to  meet  the  demand.  As  we  look  back 
on  the  movements  of  that  stirring  time,  there  is  one  whose 
well-remembered  form  is  seen  for  ever  coming  to  the  front. 
It  was  the  voice  of  Dr.  Chalmers,  which  was  heard  all  over 
Scotland,  rousing  the  country ;  and  it  was  the  impetuous  energy 
which  he  threw  into  every  department  that  carried  all  before  it. 
In  these  eflEbrts  he  was  looking  far  beyond  a  mere  provision  for 
himself  and  his  outgoing  brethren  to  a  still  nobler  object,  now 
fully  in  view.  At  last,  after  long  waiting,  the  prospect  had  fairly 
dawned  of  Church  extension  in  a  form  far  different  from  what 
he  had  expected.  "  I  knocked  at  the  door  of  a  Whig  Ministry, 
and  they  refused  to  endow.  I  then  knocked  at  the  door  of  a  Tory 
Ministry.  They  perhaps  would  have  endowed,  but  they  offered 
to  enslave.  I  now,  therefore,  turn  aside  from  both,  and  knock 
at  the  door  of  the  general  population."  Here  at  last  was  the 
prospect  of  realising  what  had  been  the  lifelong,  eager  desire  of 
his  heart ;  and  with  indomitable  ardour  he  gathered  up  his 
strength  for  the  great  achievement.  "  Dr.  Chalmers,"  says  Dr. 
Guthrie,  "  has  a  kind  of  desperate  joy  in  the  prospect  of  an 
overthrow,  in  the  idea  that  some  four  or  five  hundred  churches 
would  be  built." 

6 


82  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

One  of  the  speeches  which  he  delivered  deserves  special 
notice,  on  account  of  two  watchwords  then  given  fortti,  the 
effects  of  which  it  wonld  be  difficult  to  over-estimate. 

The  first  was  a  demand  for  "  a  penny  a- week."  A  penny 
a-week  from  every  family  in  Scotland,  he  announced,  would 
serve  to  equip  the  Church,  and  provide  ordinances  over  the 
land.  Men.  were  startled.  Were  we  to  have  a  Free  Church, 
delivered  from  all  these  conflicts  and  trammels,  with  such  men 
as  Chalmers,  and  Candlish,  and  Gordon  at  its  head,  and  was 
the  sacrifice  to  be  no  more  than  this  ?  But  how  could  such  a 
thing  be  ?  "  People  say,"  he  exclaimed,  "  A  penny  a-week ! 
that  is  utterly  insignificant  to  the  wants  of  the  Church.  How 
can  you  possibly  transmute  a  penny  a-week  into  the  basis  of 
the  support  of  a  Church  which  has  for  its  object  the  Christian 
instruction  of  one  and  all  the  families  of  the  land  ?  Is  it 
possible  that  a  penny  a-week  can  work  such  a  marvel  ?  Just 
as  possible  as  that  the  successive  strokes  of  the  chisel  should 
raise  the  pyramids  of  Egypt,"  And  then  followed  the  calcula- 
tion on  which  this  was  founded. 

The  second  watchword  was  more  important  still :  Organise 
— organise — organise  !  "  The  time  for  argument  is  now  over ; 
the  time  for  action  has  come.  We  have  entered  on  a  new  era 
of  deeds,  which  has  followed  the  era  of  speeches.  .  .  .  O'Connell 
gave  forth  his  watchword  :  Agitate — agitate — agitate !  .  .  .  Sir 
Robert  Peel  gave  forth  his  watchword :  Register — register — 
register!  .  .  .  Scotland  seeks  the  Christian  freedom  of  her 
Church,  and  the  Christian  good  of  her  people ;  and  to  make 
out  this  let  her  watchword  be  :  Organise — organise — organise  1 
.  .  .  We  confess  our  main  dependence  to  be  on  the  prayers  of 
the  Christian  people  of  the  land,  but  we  also  know  that  prayer 
does  not  supersede  either  efl'orts  or  wisdom.  Therefore  I 
repeat,  Organise — organise — organise  !  and  without  the  objects 
of  tlie  demagogue  on  the  one  hand,  or  the  statesman  on  the 
other,  Ipt  us  not  cease  our  endeavours  till,  by  the  blessing  of 
God,  the  country  in  which  we  live  becomes  a  sacred  land  of 
light  and  liberty — a  portion  of  that  greatest  and  best  of  empires, 
the  empire  of  truth  and  righteousness." 

The  cry  thus  raised  was  in  reality  a  call  for  the  forming  of 


MAKING  READY,  83 

local  associations,  in  which  parishes  might  combine  for  raising 
funds,  preparing  temporary  accommodation,  and  arranging 
permanently  for  the  future.  Church  Defence  Associations  had 
been  formed  at  an  earlier  period,  but  Free  Church  Associa- 
tions had  now  to  take  their  place,  and  very  cordial  was  the 
response  given  to  this  appeal.  Already,  on  March  15  th,  the  Church 
Defence  Association  at  Woodside,  Aberdeen,  as'  Mr.  Forbes 
states,  was  dissolved,  for  two  reasons — viz.,  1st,  Because  the 
attempt  which  had  been  made  to  defend  the  Church  from 
the  encroachments  of  the  civil  power  had  failed ;  and  2ndly, 
"Because  the  Church  as  established  by  law,  as  its  constitution 
was  interpreted  by  the  civil  powers,  was  not  loorth  defending. 
The  spiritual  province  was  invaded,  the  Headship  of  Christ 
denied,  and  the  people  trampled  on  and  enslaved."  Accord- 
ingly, "  on  Wednesday,  the  15th  March,  a  meeting  was  held,  at 
which  an  association  was  formed  for  the  support  of  a  Free 
Presbyterian  Church  in  Scotland."*  Similar  movements  were 
common  over  the  country.  By  the  19th  of  April  405  associa- 
tions had  been  reported,  and  at  the  meeting  of  the  Assembly 
the  number  had  risen  to  G87.  One  of  the  earliest  to  respond 
to  the  appeal  of  Dr.  Chalmers  was  Mr.  M'Cheyne,  of  Dundee. 
"  We  are  proposing,"  he  wrote  on  the  7th  of  March,  "  to 
organise  for  the  support  of  a  Free  Presbyterian  Church."  He 
asked  the  aid  of  Mr.  Makgill  Crichton  at  a  meeting  to  be  held 
on  the  following  Tuesday.  "All  the  accommodation  of  my 
humble  dwelling  is,  of  course,  at  your  service."  The  meeting 
was  held,  and  the  association  formed.  Mr.  M'Cheyne  was 
heard  "  pleading  fervently  the  cause  of  the  Free  Presbyterian 
Church."  It  was  his  last  service — his  work  was  done,  he 
went  home  and  lay  down  to  die  ;  and  there  were  many  in  Scot- 
land whose  attachment  to  the  cause  of  the  Free  Church  was  all 
the  deeper  from  the  fact  that  his  latest  public  testimony  was 
borne  so  earnestly  on  its  behalf 

And  now,  as  the  day  approached,  the  question  began  to  be 

everywhere  keenly  debated — how  many  ministers  would  really 

go  out  ?     Nothing  in  all  this  history  was  more  remarkable  than 

the  utter   incredulity  of  opponents   as  to  any  large  number 

*  Dis.  Mss.  xxvii.  p.  3. 


84  AifNALS  OF  THE  DISKUPTION. 

standing  true  to  their  word.  There  was,  perhaps,  an  excuse  for 
some  measure  of  doubt,  owing  to  the  signs  of  faltering^which 
had  appeared  in  certain  quarters.  In  May,  1842,  an  unfortu- 
nate attempt  had-  been  made  to  break  up  the  Evangelical  party 
by  a  band  of  waverers,  who  came  forward  in  the  Synod  of 
Glasgow,  saying,  "We  oxe  forty ;  a  movement  really  insignificant, 
but  which  made  it  more  easy  for  politicians  and  others  to  believe 
what  they  wished  to  believe.  Even  after  the  Convocation,  there 
were  some  proceedings  which  might  well  have  strengthened  the 
impression,  and  of  these  we  give  one  example — the  account  of  a 
meeting  of  Presbytery  at  Linlithgow,  as  described  by  Mr.  Taylor. 
"  Our  Presbytery  of  Linlithgow,  at  its  meeting  (March), 
secured  for  itself  the  inglorious  pre-eminence  of  being  the  first 
Presbytery  in  the  Church  to  flinch  in  the  prospect  of  danger,  to 
reverse  its  majority,  and  thus  to  lead  in  the  unprincipled  retreat. 
Our  little  Presbytery  room  was  crowded,  there  being  a  large 
muster  of  members  and  a  goodly  company  of  onlookers.  .  .  .  The 

great  question  was  introduced  by  Mr. of ,  who  moved  an 

overture  to  the  General  Assembly  for  the  repeal  of  the  Veto  Act. 
He  had  hitherto  been  a  very  forward  supporter  of  reformation 
measures,  and  had  advocated  the  overtures  for  giving  efficacy  to 
the  call.  At  all  public  meetings  in  Edinburgh  for  Church- 
reform  he  was  present.  But  recent  events  had  altered  his  views. 
His  speech  was  carefully  prepared.  It  was  written  out  and  laid 
before  him,  and  was  delivered  with  that  forced  and  vehement 
oratory  which  showed  that  the  chief  opponent  with  whom  he 
had  to  contend  was  the  conviction  of  his  own  heart.  He  has, 
since  the  Disruption,  got  the  reward  of  his  unfaithfulness,  in 

being  preferred  to  the  desirable  parish  of .     Mr.  Laing,  of 

Livingstone,  replied,  and  replied  etfectively.  But  the  most 
effective  speech  was  Mr.  Martin's,  of  Bathgate,  wherein,  before 
the  vote  was  taken,  he  reviewed  the  debate  and  the  argument, 
and  the  altered  position  of  the  speakers.  It  was  more  than 
eloquent ;  but  vain  is  every  appeal  to  men  bent  on  following 
not  what  their  convictions  but  what  their  interests  suggest*    I 

*  Mr.  Martin,  in  a  letter  written  at  the  time,  himself  refers  to  the  part 
he  took  in  this  discussion.  "  The  biu-den  of  the  debate  .  .  .  fell  on  me. 
As  I  expected  it  would  be  so,  I  let  them  all  speak  before  I  rose  ;  but, 


MAKING  KEADY.  85 

remember  distinctly,  as  if  it  were  yesterday,  the  humbled 
appearance  of  the  brethren  who  now  openly  disavowed  their 

former  principles.     Mr. ,  of ,  sat  silent,  but  voted  right 

against  his  former  party.     Mr. ,  of ,  betrayed  his  folly 

by  attempting  an  explanation.     Poor  Mr. ,  of ,  hung 

down  his  head,  as  if  in  agony  of  spirit,  and  refused  to  give  a 

vote.     Mr. ,  of ,  who  in  a  fit  of  extreme  haste  had 

written  Sir  Eobert  Peel  to  say  that  if  a  right  settlement  were 
not  soon  given  to  the  principles  for  which  the  Church  was 
contending,  he  must  resign  his  connection  with  it,  and  who  got 
for  answer  that  so  soon  as  he  resigned,  Government  would  be 
prepared  to  present  a  successor  to  him ;  had  a  printed  paper, 
which  he  circulated  among  the  members,  wherein  he  attempted 
to  justify  his  remaining  in  the  Church  from  the  example  of 

great  men  in  former  days,     Mr. ,  of ,  said  that  much 

as  he  valued  the  Veto,  he  was  not  prepared  to  peril  the  Church's 

endowments  for  it.      Mr. ,  of ,  a  sort  of  Presbyterian 

Puseyite,  though  a  good  man,  contended  for  his  own  favourite 
dogma,  which  was,  that  all  the  afiairs  of  the  Church  were  managed 
absolutely  by  the  [Church]  rulers,  and  that  the  only  duty  devolving 

on  Church  members  was  that  of  entire  submission.    Mr. ,  of 

,  whom,  as  my  copresbyter,  I  chiefly  regretted  leaving  in  the 

Establishment,  fell  the  victim  of  his  own  timidity  and  irresolu- 
tion, and  urged  it  as  a  reason  for  repealing  the  Veto,  that  we 
were  only  putting  ourselves  in  a  favourable  position  for  getting 
Government's  sanction  to  some  other  preferable  measure.*     By 

truly,  as  man  after  man  renounced  his  principles,  amid  many  shameful 
pretences  of  maintaininf];  them,  it  wiis  not  indignation  I  felt,  but  sorrow ;  and 
I  never  rose  to  speak,  I  believe,  sadder  or  sicker  at  heart.  I  spoke  long, 
and  demolished,  I  think,  every  vestige  of  argument,  .  .  .  yet  did  not  use 
an  angry  or  bitter  word.  I  do  confess  it  was  difficult  to  keep  off." — 
Life,  p.  114. 

*  This  was  a  vain  idea,  because  the  cases  of  intrusion — Mr.  Young's,  at 
Auchterarder,  and  the  others — would  have  had  to  be  carried  out  in  the  mean- 
time by  a  series  of  forced  settlements.  In  such  things  the  Church  could 
take  no  part.  Besides,  Lord  Aberdeen's  Act  was  all  that  men  in  authority 
were  prepared  to  give — an  Act  which,  by  common  consent,  had  to  be 
thrown  aside  as  an  intolerable  burden.  It  was  only  the  existence  of  the 
Free  Church  which  ultimately  forced  those  in  authority  to  go  further. 


86  AKNALS  OF  THE  DISRUrilON. 

a  majority  of  votes  was  the  overture  carried,  and  by  tins  black 
act  was  the  first  note  of  faint-heartedness  and  treachery  sounded 
within  the  ranks  of  the  Church."  * 

But  not  in  -  Church  Courts  only  were  such  things  going  on. 
All  over  the  country  private  efforts  were  being  made  to  work 
on  men's  selfish  hopes  and  fears,  no  agents  being  more  zealous 
than  those  who  had  themselves  deserted  their  colours.  For 
honourable  men  one  of  the  heaviest  trials  of  that  time  was  the 
breaking  down  and  failure  of  former  friends,  whose  principles 
had  not  been  able  to  withstand  the  pressure. 

When  the  day  drew  near,  accordingly,  estimates  were  being 
formed  among  all  ranks  of  society  as  to  the  number  of  those 
who  would  go  out ;  and,  probably,  men  put  their  estimates  at  a 
higher  or  lower  figure  in  proportion  as  their  own  sense  of  the 
importance  of  the  principles  at  stake  was  high  or  low. 

It  is  strange  to  observe  how  incapable  the  Moderate  party  as 
a  whole  were  of  estimating  the  position  of  afiairs.  In  a  mani- 
festo, issued  on  the  ist  of  March,  1843,  and  signed  by  Principal 
Macfarlane,  they  assured  the  Government  that  they  looked  witii- 
out  apprehension  to  the  threatened  Disruption  of  the  Church. 
"  Its  office-bearers  may  in  SOME  instances  be  changed,  and  a  FEW 
of  its  lay  members  be  withdrawn  fok  a  time,  but  the  tempest 
will  soon  pass  over." 

Dr.  Cumming,  of  London,  who  has  had  much  experience  in 
prognosticating  future  events,  was  very  confident  in  this  case. 
"  I  venture,  on  pretty  accurate  information,  to  assert  that  less 
than  one  hundred  will  cover  the  whole  secession.  ,  .  .  But  I 
am  not  satisfied  that  any  will  secede."  -f  He  was  certain  that 
more  than  three-fourths,  probably  the  whole  of  his  brethren, 
would  prove  false  to  their  pledges. 

Even  in  Scotland,  amid  the  preparation  and  bustle  that  was 
going  on,  many  were  equally  in  ignorance.  Mr.  Grant,  of  Ayr, 
states :  "  On  my  way  to  the  General  Assembly,  one  of  the 
principal  bankers  in  Ayr  was  in  the  railway  carriage  with  me. 
The  conversation  naturally  turned  to  the  state  of  the  Church, 
Turning  to  me,  he  offered  to  bet  £5  that  not  forty  would  come 

*  Dis.  Mss.  xxxvii.  p.  4. 
t  Quoted  in  ]\Iemoirs  of  Dr.  Cliahuers,  vol.  iv.  p.  334. 


MAKING  READY.  87 

out.  I  answered  that  I  never  betted,  but  that  if  he  were  to 
make  his  forty  four  hundred,  and  if  I  were  to  take  it,  his  £5 
would  be  mine  in  three  days."  * 

In  Edinburgh  they  were  just  as  little  aware  of  what  was 
coming.  "  Mark  my  words,"  wrote  one  of  the  best-informed 
and  most  sagacious  citizens  of  Edinburgh  a  day  or  two  before 
the  Disruption,  "  not  forty  of  them  will  go  out."  -|*' 

With  similar  anticipations,  the  Marquis  of  Bute,  as  Eoyal 
Commissioner,  arrived  at  Holyrood,  and  nothing  shows  more 
strikingly  how  little  the  best-informed  politicians  knew  what  they 
were  doing  than  a  fact  which  has  been  recorded  by  Mr.  Dunlop. 
In  the  circle  at  the  Palace,  on  the  evening  of  the  17th,  within 
a  few  hours  of  the  Disruption,  the  calculation  was  that  the 
number  who  would  separate  would  be  between  twenty  and 
thirty.  J  One  circumstance,  if  they  had  only  been  aware  of  it, 
would  have  opened  their  eyes.  Already  the  Evangelical  party 
had  been  in  conference,  arranging  for  the  final  step,  and  that 
forenoon  (the  17th)  the  Protest  which  Dr.  Welsh  was  to  lay  on 
the  table  of  the  Assembly,  renouncing  the  Establishment,  had 
been  signed  by  400  ministers.  § 

Preparation,  also,  for  a  place  of  meeting  had  been  completed 
at  Tanfield,  near  Canonmills,  one  of  the  suburbs  of  Edinburgh. 
The  hall  there,  after  being  built  for  other  purposes,  was  occu- 
pied as  a  wareroom ;  and  when  visited  by  Mr.  Dunlop  in  February 
the  wide  floor,  with  its  piles  of  boxes,  wore  an  "  aspect  of  cold- 
ness and  deadness."  Hurriedly  seated  and  fitted  up,  it  now  stood 
ready  to  give  accommodation  to  fully  3000  people.  On  one  side 
was  a  spacious  platform,  with  its  blue  drapery  in  front,  while 
on  either  hand,  to  right  and  left  of  the  great  area,  the  benches 
rose  on  a  gentle  slope.  The  roof  was  low,  but,  to  the  delight  of 
all,  the  acoustics  of  the  place  were  found  to  be  perfect — speakers 
with  even  the  weakest  voice  being  heard  with  ease. 

*  Dis.  Mss.  xli.  p.  2. 

t  Memoirs  of  Dr.  Chalmers,  vol.  iv.  p.  335. 

t  Memoir  of  Dr.  Welsh,  p.  103. 

§  lucluding  signatures  to  a  paper  of  concurrence. 


88  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 


IX.  The  Disruption. 

At  last  the  decisive  day  arrived — the  18th  of  May.  Business 
•in  Edinburgh  -was  for  the  most  part  suspended,  and  all  along 
the  streets  there  was  general  excitement,  as  if  men  felt  them- 
selves in  presence  of  some  great  event.  Already,  at  break  of 
day,  an  eager  crowd  besieged  the  doors  of  St.  Andrew's  Church, 
where  the  Assembly  was  to  meet ;  and  no  sooner  were  they 
opened  than  every  inch  of  space  available  for  the  public  was 
densely  crowded.*  There  had  been  numerous  arrivals  from  all 
parts  of  Scotland,  and  even  from  abroad.  Dr.  Stewart, — then  of 
Erskine, — for  example,  who  had  been  ordered  for  his  health  to  the 
south  of  Europe,  tells  how  he  arrived  just  in  time  to  take  part  in 
the  proceedings :  "  I  had  to  leave  my  family  in  London,  and  hur- 
ried down  by  mail-coach  and  rail  to  Edinburgh,  to  be  present  at 
the  Disruption — arriving  from  Constantinople  by  uninterrupted 
travelling  at  four  o'clock  on  the  morning  of  that  eventful  day."-)- 

The  opening  scene  was  at  Holyrood,  where,  as  usual,  the  Lord 
High  Commissioner  held  his  levee,  while  "  the  yearly  gleam  of 
royalty  was  flickering  about  the  old  grim  turrets."  Never  had 
the  reception-rooms  of  the  Palace  been  more  densely  crowded, 
for  those  who  were  about  to  abandon  the  Establishment  sought 
all  the  more  to  testify  their  abiding  loyalty. 

"  Being  a  member  for  the  last  time,"  says  Mr.  Lewis,  of 

*  Mr.  Kerr,  of  H.M.  Office  of  Works,  who  was  placed  in  charge  of  the 
preparation  of  St.  Andrew's  Church,  states  :  "On  the  evening  of  the  17th, 
when  about  to  lock  up  the  chivrch  for  the  night,  we  were  informed  that 
the  door-keepers,  who  had  duplicate  keys,  had  been  offered  considerable 
sums  of  money  to  allow  parties  to  occupy  the  pews  all  night.  .  .  .  Pad- 
locks were  put  on  the  doors  to  prevent  the  duplicate  keys  being  used." 
Next  morning  when  the  public  were  admitted  they  "  were  very  orderly  and 
quiet ;  and,  indeed,  so  obliging,  that  ultimately  the  greater  number  stood  up 
in  the  pews,  and  allowed  the  seat-boards  to  be  filled  by  others  standing  on 
them." — Dis.  ]\Iss.  lii.  t  Parker  Mss.,  Pres.  of  Greenock. 


THE  DISRUPTION.  89 

Dundee,  "  of  the  General  Assembly  of  the  Established  Church 
in  May,  1843,  I  was  in  Edinburgh  on  the  appointed  day,  and 
attended  the  levee  of  Her  Majesty's  Commissioner,  the  Marquis 
of  Bute,  anxious  to  show  our  loyalty  to  Caesar  when  about  to 
give  to  Christ  the  things  that  belong  to  Christ.  While  crowding 
the  ante-room,  and  waiting  the  opening  of  the  door,  the  portrait 
of  William  III.,  oddly  enough,  gave  way,  and  seemed  about  to 
fall,  some  one,  as  we  tried  to  prop  it  up,  exclaiming,  '  There  goes 
the  Revolution  Settlement ! '  *  an  incident  which,  a  hundred 
years  earlier,  had  been  interpreted  as  one  of  evil  omen  and  warn- 
ing ;  but,  like  other  omens,  it  came  too  late  to  be  of  much  use."  -f- 

At  the  close  of  the  levee,  shortly  after  noon,  the  Commissioner 
entered  his  carriage ;  the  procession,  with  its  military  escort, 
moved  round  by  the  Calton  Hill,  up  the  North  Bridge,  and  on 
to  the  High  Church,  where  sermon  was  preached  by  Dr.  Welsh, 
the  retiring  Moderator,  from  the  words:  "Let  every  man  be 
fully  persuaded  in  his  own  mind." 

"  The  discourse,"  says  Dr.  James  Hamilton,  "  was  a  produc- 
tion which,  for  wise  and  weighty  casuistry,  for  keen  analysis  of 
motives,  and  fine  discrimination  of  truth,  and  for  felicity  of 
historic  illustrations,  would  have  been  a  treat  to  such  a  congre- 
gation at  a  less  eventful  season.  With  the  solemn  consciousness 
that  in  the  full  persuasion  of  their  own  minds,  they  had  decided 
in  another  hour  to  take  a  step  in  which  character,  and  worldly 
comfort,  and  ministerial  usefulness  were  all  involved,  each  sen- 
tence came  with  a  sanction  which  such  sermons  seldom  carry."  + 

Service  being  over,  men  hurried  along  the  streets  and  through 
the  gathering  crowds  to  St.  Andrew's  Church.  Outside,  the 
spacious  street  was  an  impressive  spectacle,  with  its  masses  of 
eager  spectators,  while  inside  the  Church  the  dense  crowd,  after 
long  hours  of  suspense,  were  intently  waiting  for  the  issue. 

"  I  was  one  of  the  first,"  says  Dr.  M'Lauchlan,  "  who  made 
his  way  from  the  High  Church,  where  Dr.  Welsh  preached,  to 

*  "  The  voice  was  that  of  William  Howison  Craufurd,  Esq.  of  Crau- 
furdland,  the  representative  of  one  of  Scotland's  oldest  families,  and  an 
unflinching  supporter  of  the  Church  of  1690."  — Ten  Years'  Conflict, 
vol.  ii.  p.  434. 

t  Parker  Mss.,  Pres.  of  Dundee.  X  Farewell  to  Egypt,  p.  7. 


90  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

St.  Andrew's  Church,  where  the  Assembly  met.  When  I  entered, 
the  seats  on  the  Evangelical  side  were  almost  all  empty.  On  the 
Moderate  side  they  were  quite  full,  with  Dr.  Cook  in  front — the 
ministers  from  that  side  not  having  been  at  the  sermon.  I  sat 
beside  Dr.  John  Smyth,  of  Glasgow.  The  galleries  were  packed 
full,  and  soon  the  whole  liouse  was  crowded.  When  silence 
followed  the  rush  of  members,  as  we  waited  for  the  Moderator 
and  Commissioner,  I  turned  to  Dr.  Smyth.  His  eyes  were  full 
of  tears,  and  he  remarked,  *  This  is  too  much.'"  * 

It  was  about  half-past  two  o'clock,  or  rather  later,  when  Dr. 
Welsh  was  seen  to  enter  and  take  the  chair.  Soon  after  there  was 
heard  the  measured  tramp  of  the  soldiery  outside,  and  the  swell  of 
martial  music,  with  the  sounds  of  the  Queen's  Anthem,  announc- 
ing the  approach  of  the  Commissioner,  and  almost  immediately 
he  appeared  and  took  the  Throne,  the  whole  assembly  rising  to 
receive  him.  When  Dr.  Welsh  presented  himself  to  the  house 
all  the  hesitancy  which  often  marked  his  speaking  had  left  him. 
"  He  was  firm  and  collected,"  writes  his  friend,  Mr.  Dunlop, 
"  very  pale,  but  full  of  dignity,  as  one  about  to  do  a  great  deed — 
and  of  elevation,  from  the  consciousness  that  he  was  doing  it  for 
the  cause  of  Christ."  In  solemn  and  fitting  words  the  opening 
prayer  was  oSered,  and  then  a  stillness  as  of  death  fell  over  the 
great  assembly.  Men  held  their  breath — "  every  heart  vibrated 
with  a  strange  awe." 

Again  Dr.  Welsh  rose.  "  Fatliers  and  Brethren,"  he  said, 
and  his  voice  sounded  clear  to  the  furthest  limits  of  the  great 
audience,  "  according  to  the  usual  form  of  procedure,  this  is 
the  time  for  making  up  the  roll,  but  in  consequence  of  certain 
j)roceedings  affecting  our  rights  and  privileges — proceedings 
which  have  been  sanctioned  by  Her  Majesty's  Government,  and 
by  the  Legislature  of  the  country;  and  more  especially  in  respect 
that  there  has  been  an  infringement  on  the  liberties  of  our 
Constitution,  so  that  we  could  not  now  constitute  this  Court 
without  a  violation  of  the  terms  of  the  Union  between  Church 
and  State  in  this  land,  as  now  authoritatively  declared — I  must 
protest  against  our  proceeding  further.  The  reasons  that  have 
led  me  to  come  to  this  conclusion  are  fully  set  forth  in  the  docu- 
*  Dis.  Mss.  xlix,  p,  9. 


THE  DISRUPTION.  91 

ment  which  I  hold  in  my  hand,  and  which,  with  permission  ol 
tlie  House,  I  shall  now  proceed  to  read." 

Then  followed  the  memorable  Protest,  in  which,  after  briefly 
stating  the  sacred  principles  for  which  the  Church  had  con- 
tended, the  encroachments  by  which  her  spiritual  powers  had 
been  overthrown,  and  the  impossibility  of  constituting  the 
Assembly  under  such  Erastian  conditions,  it  was  declared : 

"  We  protest  that,  in  the  circumstances  in  which  we  are  placed, 
it  is  and  shall  be  lawful  for  iis,  and  such  other  Commissioners  chosen 
to  the  Assembly,  appointed  to  have  been  this  day  holden,  as  may 
concur  with  us,  to  withdraw  to  a  separate  place  of  meeting,  for 
the  purpose  of  taking  steps,  along  with  all  who  adhere  to  us — 
maintaining  with  us  the  Confession  of  Faith  and  Standards  of  the 
Church  of  Scotland  as  heretofore  understood — for  separating  in  an 
orderly  way  from  the  Establishment,  and  thereupon  adopting  such 
measures  as  may  be  competent  to  us,  in  humble  dependence  on 
God's  grace  and  the  aid  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  for  the  advancement  of 
His  glory,  the  extension  of  the  Gospel  of  our  Lord  and  Saviour, 
and  the  administration  of  the  affairs  of  Christ's  house  according  to 
His  Holy  Word  ;  and  we  now  withdraw  accordingly,  humbly  and 
solemnly  acknowledging  the  hand  of  the  Lord  in  the  things  which 
have  come  upon  us  because  of  our  manifold  sins,  and  the  sins  of 
this  Church  and  nation,  but,  at  the  same  time,  with  an  assured 
conviction  that  we  are  not  responsible  for  any  consequences  that 
may  follow  from  this,  our  enforced  separation  from  an  Establish- 
ment which  we  loved  and  prized,  through  interference  with  con- 
science, the  dishonour  done  to  Christ's  crown,  and  the  rejection  of 
His  sole  and  supreme  authority  as  King  in  His  Church." 

With  these  closing  words,  the  Moderator  laid  the  Protest  on 
the  table — lifted  his  hat — turned  to  the  Commissioner,  who 
had  risen — and  bowed  respectfully  to  the  representative  of 
Royalty,  an  act  which  seemed  to  many  as  if  the  true  old 
Church  of  Scotland  were  then  and  there  bidding  farewell  to  the 
State  which  had  turned  a  deaf  ear  to  her  appeals.  Leaving  the 
chair,  Dr.  Welsh  moved  toward  the  door,  and  Dr.  Chalmers, 
who  all  the  time  had  been  close  at  his  side,  was  seen  eagerly 
following,  along  with  Dr.  Gordon,  Dr.  M'Farlan,  Dr.  Macdonald, 
and  the  other  occupants  of  the  bench  in  front. 


92  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

At  the  sight  of  the  movement,  a  loud  cheer — but  only  for  a 
moment — burst  from  the  gallery.  At  once  it  was  hushOd,  for 
the  solemnity  and  sympathy  were  too  deep  for  such  a  mode  of 
expression,  and  silence  again  fell  over  the  house,  as  all  were 
eagerly  gazing  at  the  seats  to  the  left  of  the  chair.  It  was  a 
sight  never  to  be  forgotten,  as  man  after  man  rose,  without 
hurry  or  confusion,  and  bench  after  bench  was  left  empty,  and 
the  vacant  space  grew  wider  as  ministers  and  elders  poured  out 
in  long  procession. 

Outside  in  the  street,  the  great  mass  of  spectators  had  long 
been  waiting  in  anxious  anticipation,  and  when  at  last  the  cry 
rose,  "They  come!  they  come!"  and  when  Dr.  Welsh,  Dr. 
Chalmers,  and  Dr.  Gordon  appeared  in  sight,  the  sensation, 
as  they  came  forth,  went  like  an  electric  shock  through  the 
vast  multitude,  and  the  long,  deep  shout  which  rang  along  the 
street  told  that  the  deed  had  been  done.  No  arrangement  had 
been  made  for  a  procession,  for  the  strong  wish  of  the  ministers 
was  to  avoid  all  display.  But  there  was  no  choice.  On  either 
hand  the  crowd  drew  back,  opening  out  a  lane  wide  enough  to 
allow  of  three,  or  at  most  four,  walking  abreast.  And  so  in  steady 
ranks  the  procession  moved  on  its  way,  while  all  around  they 
were  met  with  expressions  of  the  deepest  emotion. 

The  writer  of  this  was  not-  a  member  of  Assembly,  but  in 
that  part  of  the  House  allotted  to  ministers  not  members  he 
was  in  a  favourable  position,  where  all  that  went  on  could  be 
fully  seen.  After  the  movement  had  been  made,  he  remained 
for  some  time,  side  by  side  with  Dr.  Horatius  Bonar,  to  witness 
the  departure  of  friends,  and  especially  to  note  the  effect  on  the 
Moderate  party  who  remained  behind.  At  first.  Dr.  Cook  and 
his  friends  were  all  complacency,  but  as  the  full  extent  of  the 
Disruption  began  to  disclose  itself,  there  came  an  expression  of 
perplexity,  which  in  not  a  few  instances  seemed  to  deepen  into 
bewilderment  and  dismay. 

On  leaving  the  church  and  falling  into  the  line  of  procession, 
it  was  evident  that  amidst  the  crowd  the  first  sensation  was 
over,  though  tears  were  seen  in  many  eyes,  and  other  signs  of 
emotion  con  Id  be  observed.  But  what  showed  most  strikingly 
tlie  magnitude  of  the  movement  was  the  view  from  that  point 


THE  TROCESSION   ON   THE   18tii   01'   MAY. 


THE  DISRUPTION.  93 

in  Geoi'ge  Street  where  you  look  down  the  long  vista  toward 
Tanfield,  and  where  one  unbroken  column  was  seen,  stretching, 
amidst  numerous  spectators,  all  the  way  till  lost  in  the  distance. 

But  now  we  turn  to  the  Disruption  Mss.  to  note  what  personal 
reminiscences  there  may  be  of  a  day  on  which  men  were  sacri- 
ficing their  all. 

Some  record  little  else  than  the  names  of  the. friends  with 
whom  they  went  forth  side  by  side  as  comrades  in  the  hour  of 
trial.  Mr.  Flyter,  of  Alness,  says  :  "  I  walked  down  in  proces- 
sion to  Tanfield  in  company  with  Dr.  Smyttan,  late  of  Bombay, 
and  General  Munro  of  Teaninich."*  Mr.  Dodds,  of  Humble, 
records :  "  I  walked  down  in  procession  to  Canonmills  along 
with  my  ven'erable  father-in-law.  Dr.  Duncan,  of  Ruthwell,  Dr. 
Henry  Grey,  of  St.  Mary's,  Edinburgh,  and  my  brother-in-law, 
Mr.  George  John  Duncan,  of  Kirkpatrick-Durham."-f- 

"  The  Rev.  Nathaniel  Paterson,  D.D. ;  his  brother  the  Rev. 
Walter  Paterson ;  and  Dr.  Landsborough  (Stevenston)  walked 
arai-in-arm.  What  noble  heads  and  fine  countenances  the 
three  presented  !  Here  were  original  genius  ;  accurate  scholar- 
ship, with  varied  accomplishments ;  and  fine  taste,  with  scientific 
learning.  The  three  had  in  boyish  days  wandered  together  by 
the  banks  of  the  Ken ;  and  now,  when  time  had  whitened  their 
iieads  with  the  snow  of  age,  they  walked  together  in  this  memor- 
able procession,  being,  by  God's  grace,  willing  to  sacrifice  all 
for  the  glory  of  that  Saviour  who  had  redeemed  them  with  His 
blood."  + 

Dr.  Burns,  of  Kilsyth,  goes  more  fully  into  detail :  "  On 
that  memorable  day,  after  hearing  the  sermon  by  the  lamented 
Welsh,  the  writer  of  this  walked  over  to  St.  Andrew's  Church 
in  company  with  a  faithful  man,  Mr.  Thomson,  of  Dysart.  Ere 
he  was  aware,  he  found  himself  in  what  has  been  called  the 
Moderate  side  of  the  Assembly,  and  was  saluted  by  one  of  the 
Evangelicals  who  remained,  as  if  he  had  been  with  them.  The 
countenances  of  some  old  Moderates  near  him  were  very  expres- 
sive of  mingled  astonishment  and  sorrow.  On  making  egress 
from  the  house  of  bondage  among  the  first,  and  being  on  the 

♦  Parker  Mss.,  Pres.  of  Dingwall.  ^t  Dis.  Mss.  xxxiiL 

X  Memoir  of  Dr.  Landsborough,  p.  176. 


94  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 

side  next  tlie  street  leading  down  to  the  new  Assembly  Hall, 
he  was  very  near  the  front  of  the  procession,  being  join«d  by 
[his]  brother,  Dr.  George  Burns,-  of  Tweedsmuir,  and  by  [his] 
son,  W.  0.  Burns.  It  was  doubtless  a  solemn,  yet  felt  to 
be  a  noble  and  soul-stirring  scene.  The  day  was  clear,  and 
the  path  of  duty. equally  so.  The  Lord  was  with  us,  and 
assuredly  the  best  by  far  of  the  Scottish  Church.  The  incubus 
of  Moderatism  and  secularity  seemed  to  be  shaken  oflf;  and 
though  legal  stipend  was  now  gone,  away  also  went  bonds,  and 
horn,  and  poind.     Truly,  it  has  been  the  exodus  from  Egypt."  * 

Mr.  Kerr,  of  H.M.  Office  of  Works,  being  in  charge  of  St. 
Andrew's  Church,  remained  after  Dr.  Welsh  and  his  friends 
had  left.  He  states  that  "  in  the  course  of  about  twenty  minutes 
there  did  not  remain  inside  the  church  above  one  hundred  human 
beings."  -f-  Looking  at  such  a  sight,  what  could  men  think  but 
that  it  was  the  Church  of  Scotland  which  had  gone  out? 

Of  the  procession  Mr.  Dunlop  says :  "  True  and  great 
dignity  and  moral  power  impressed  awe,  which  spoke  in 
the  silent  language  of  respectful  observance ;  and  every  now 
and  then,  as  some  more  venerable  father,  or  some  tried  cham- 
pion of  the  cause,  passed  down,  might  be  seen  a  head  uncovered 
and  bent  in  quiet  reverence."  J  This  struck  Mr,  Duncan,  of 
Kirkpatrick-Durham,  as  "  the  deepest  touch  of  all,  showing 
that  earnest  solemnity  and  the  spirit  of  prayer  had  its  place 
in  the  gazing  throng."  "  There  were  hats  raised  from  vener- 
able heads,  and  words  such  as  these  dropped  into  the  ears  of 
the  passing  ministers :  '  The  Lord  be  with  you  ! '  '  God  guide 
you  !'  '  May  He  strengthen  you  and  bear  you  through ! '  " 

"  Here  and  there,  as  the  child  or  wife  of  some  outgoing 
minister  caught  sight  of  a  husband  or  father's  form,  accomplish- 
ing an  act  which  was  to  leave  his  family  homeless  and  unpro- 
vided, warm  tear-drops  formed,  which,  as  if  half-ashamed  of 
them,  the  hand  of  faith  was  in  haste  to  wipe  away,"  § 

And  sometimes,  under  the  impulse  of  the  moment,  there 
were  yet  more  demonstrative  expressions  of  feeling.     As  Dr. 

*  Dis.  Mss.  xxix.  p.  8.  t  Ibid.  lii. 

X  Memoir  of  Dr.  Welsh,  p.  110. 

§  Memoirs  of  Dr.  Chalmers,  vol.  iv.  p.  339. 


THE  DISRUPTION.  95 

Landsborough  moved  in  the  procession,  "  an  aged  minister  was 
a  little  ahead  of  him.  On  a  sudden  the  crowd  broke,  and  a 
young  lady  sprang  forward  and  caught  the  hand  of  the  vener- 
able servant  of  God,  raised  it  up,  and  kissed  it,  and  then,  allow- 
ing it  to  drop,  fell  back  into  the  crowd ;  while  the  old  man 
seemed  so  much  occupied  with  his  own  thoughts  as  scarcely  to 
have  noticed  what  had  been  done."  * 

Nor  were  such  feelings  confined  to  those  who  were  out  on 
the  street.  "Elsewhere  in  the  city,  Lord  Jeffrey  was  sitting 
reading  in  his  quiet  room,  when  one  burst  in  upon  him,  saying, 
'  Well,  what  do  you  think  of  it  ?  More  than  four  hundred  of 
them  are  actually  out !'  The  book  was  flung  aside,  and,  spring- 
ing to  his  feet,  Lord  Jeffrey  exclaimed,  '  I  am  proud  of  my 
country.  There  is  not  another  country  upon  earth  where  such  a 
deed  could  have  been  done.'  "+ 

The  hall  at  Tanfield  had,from  an  early  hour,been  crowded  by  an 
audience  bound  together  by  common  sympathies,  and  anxiously 
waiting  the  result.  Long  hours  had  passed,  and  when  a  shout 
from  the  outside  announced  the  appearance  of  the  procession, 
the  excitement  grew  intense.  At  last  they  entered — not  only 
the  well-known  champions  of  the  cause,  but  rank  after  rank  the 
ministers  and  elders  came  pouring  in,  till  all  the  allotted  space 
was  filled ;  and  when  friend  after  friend  was  recognised,  there 
came  from  the  audience  an  irrepressible  outburst  of  feeling 
which  carried  all  before  it,  and  found  expression  in  acclamations 
and  tears. 

The  opening  prayer  of  Dr.  Welsh  was  an  outpouring  of 
devout  and  holy  feeling,  which  moved  every  heart  in  a  way 
never  to  be  forgotten.  In  proceeding  to  elect  a  Moderator,  all 
eyes  turned  at  once  to  Dr.  Chalmers,  and  at  the  mention  of  his 
nama  by  Dr.  Welsh,  the  whole  Assembly  rose  and  broke  forth 
in  enthusiastic  applause.  When  he  came  in  and  took  the  chair 
a  singular  incident  occurred.  A  heavy  passing  cloud  had  for  a 
time  cast  a  gloom  over  the  Assembly,  and  when  Dr.  Chahners 
rose  to  give  out  the  opening  Psalm,  "  0  send  thy  light  forth 

*  Memoir  of  Dr.  Landsborough,  p.  179. 
t  Memoirs  of  Dr.  Chalmers,  toL  iv.  p.  339. 


96  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 

and  thy  truth,  let  them  be  guides  to  me,"  the  cloud  suddenly 
broke,  the  full  sunlight  came  pouring  through  the  wi»dows, 
brightening  the  scene,  and  "  there  were  some  who  thought  of  Dr. 
Chalmers'  text  but  six  months  before,  Unto  the  upright  there 
ariseth  light  in  the  darkness."  The  opening  address  which 
followed  was  worthy  of  the  occasion,  vindicating  the  posi- 
tion of  the  Free  Church,  and  defining  the  place  she  was  to 
occupy. 

Thus,  with  feelings  of  indescribable  relief  and  thankfulness, 
the  first  sederunt  of  the  Free  Assembly  was  brought  to  a  close. 
Every  single  step  during  the  anxious  hours  of  that  day  had 
been  in  perfect  keeping  with  the  momentous  character  of  the 
event.  Many  a  heart  looked  up  in  gratitude  to  God  for 
strength  in  the  hour  of  trial — the  feeling  which  Dr.  Lands- 
borough,  with  expressive  abruptness,  wrote  down  at  the  time 
in  his  brief  journal  of  the  Disruption  day :  "  Remained  till 
six  o'clock.  Exceeding  order.  Halleluiah !  I  shall  never  see 
the  like  till  heaven."* 

Such  feelings  were  not  confined  to  Edinburgh.  Over  all 
Scotland,  far  away  from  the  scene  of  action,  there  were  many 
thousands  of  quiet  homes  in  which  anxious  hearts  were  eagerly 
awaiting  the  tidings.  "It  was  a  time,"  says  Mr.  Taylor,  of 
Flisk,  "  of  unutterable  anxiety,  and  prayer  was  the  only  relief. 
Eli-like,  we  watched  and  thought  that  they  were  happiest  who 
were  engaged  actually  in  the  work.  Diligence  itself  seemed 
lazy  until  we  got  the  newspaper  which  told  that  the  act  was 
done,  and,  by  the  blessing  of  God,  nobly  done.  With  a  full 
heart  we  read  the  account,  and  by  some  of  the  speeches  were 
affected  to  tears."  f 

Thus,  also,  it  was  with  the  aged  Dr.  Eoss,  of  Lochbroom : 
"  When  the  papers  containing  the  news  of  the  Disruption 
arrived,  with  streams  of  joyous  tears  flowing  down  his  cheeks, 
he,  Simeon-like,  praised  God  that  he  was  spared  to  see  the  day 
on  which  such  an  event  took  place,  and  repeatedly  offered  his 
'Nunc  dimittis.'  "\ 

*  Memoir,  p.  173.  t  Dis.  Mss.  xxxvii.  pp.  9,  10. 

X  Parker  Mss.,  Pres.  of  Lochcarron. 


THE  FEEE  ASSEMBLY.  97 


X.  The  Feee  Assembly. 

The  deed  of  the  18th  of  May  having  been  thus  completed, 
the  members  of  Assembly  at  once  set  themselves  to  arrange  for 
the  building  of  churches,  providing  ministerial  support,  and  all 
else  that  was  required  in  their  new  position.  With  what 
sagacity  and  business-talent  these  affairs  were  adjusted  has 
been  shown  by  the  results.  But  it  seems  impossible  to  avoid 
the  conviction  that  the  guidance  and  blessinor  of  God  were 
specially  present  with  those  who  in  a  time  of  need  were  seeking 
tlie  best  methods  by  which  to  develop  the  resources  of  His 
Church.  From  the  18th  to  the  30th  of  May  was  a  period  of 
earnest  work,  into  the  details  of  which  it  is  not  for  us  here  to 
enter. 

Perhaps  the  most  impressive  act  was  the  public  signing  of  the 
Deed  of  Demission,  a  formal  legal  paper  by  which  the  emolu- 
ments and  position  of  the  Establishment  were  finally  surrendered. 
This  was  done  on  Tuesday,  the  23rd,  in  presence  of  a  vast 
audience  who  hung  in  silence  on  the  scene.  Dr.  M'Farlan,  of 
Greenock,  whose  living  was  the  richest  in  Scotland,  appropri- 
ately led  the  way.  Special  interest  attached  to  the  appearance 
of  some  of  the  more  aged  ministers — to  Dr.  Muirhead,  of 
Cramond,  for  example,  who  was  ordained  in  1788,  when 
Moderatism  was  in  the  zenith  of  its  power ;  and  Dr.  Sommer- 
ville,  of  Drumelzier,  whose  few  theological  writings,  apologetical 
and  doctrinal,  had  been  of  rare  excellence,  and  who  came  forward 
with  feeble  steps,  leaning  on  the  arm  of  his  son,  but  firm  in  his 
determination  to  give  that  testimony  for  Christ.  It  was  alto- 
gether a  memorable  spectacle — ministers  in  one  day  signing 
away  more  than  £100,000  a-year,  "  a  Church  disestablishing 
herself." 

H 


98  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

The  number  of  the  names  affixed,  including  subsequent  ad- 
herences,  was  474  In  November,  480  ministers  (also  ineluding 
subsequent  adherences)  had  pledged  themselves  that  if  the 
Government  gave  no  relief,  they  must  abandon  the  Establish- 
ment. For  six  months  many  an  attempt  had  been  made  to 
tempt  or  terrify  them,  but  when  in  May  the  day  of  trial  came, 
the  whole  ba-ud,  their  numbers  hardly  diminished,  stood  in 
unbroken  ranks.  Not  that  the  men  were  in  all  cases  the  same. 
Too  many  of-  the  loudest  talkers  had  been  found  faithless,  but 
for  every  man  who  failed,  another  who  had  said  little  was  ready 
to  step  forward  and  take  his  place ;  and  so  in  the  view  of  the 
world,  the  honour  of  the  Church  was  intact,  and  her  fidelity  to 
the  cause  of  Christ  was  openly  vindicated. 

In  the  proceedings  of  the  Assembly  much  prominence  was 
given  to  the  cause  of  missions.  It  was  evident  that  the  Church 
would  have  to  struggle  hard  for  existence  at  home,  but  not  for 
a  moment  was  the  work  of  missions  allowed  to  fall  into  a 
secondary  place.  Two  days  after  the  movement  to  Tanfield  the 
Assembly  was  already  calling  on  Dr.  Keith,  of  St.  Cyrus,  to 
report  on  the  mission  to  the  Jews,  and  often  in  after  days  has 
that  distinguished  minister  dwelt  with  delight  on  the  thought 
that  it  was  "  to  the  Jew  first "  the  Free  Church  turned  her 
regards,  believing  in  the  promise,  "  I  will  bless  them  that  bless 
thee." 

The  whole  missionary  work  at  home  and  abroad  was  arranged 
in  the  full  expectation  that  all  the  labourers  in  the  mission- 
field  would  adhere  to  the  Free  Church.  It  was  one  of  the  most 
signal  testimonies  ever  given  to  her  principles  when  the  entire 
missionary  staff  belonging  to  the  Establishment,  without  a 
single  exception,  gave  in  their  adherence.  They  were  far 
removed  from  the  din  of  controversy  or  the  stir  of  public 
assemblies,  and  had  in  no  way  committed  themselves.  They 
might  well  have  thought  that  a  Church  stripped  of  her  tem- 
poralities, and  having  everything  to  provide  for  herself,  would 
be  little  able  to  take  the  additional  burden  of  all  the  missions. 
But  not  for  a  moment  did  they  hesitate.  The  same  faith  and 
self-sacrifice  which  led  them  at  first  into  the  mission-field  guided 
them  once  more.     The  cause  of  the  Free  Church  was  for  them 


THE  FEEE  ASSEMBLE".  99 

the  cause  of  Christ.     They  renounced  the  Establishment,  and 
cast  in  their  lot  with  their  out-going  brethren. 

Thus  the  meeting  of  the  Assembly  passed  away — ^a  bright 
blessed  time  of  unbroken  brotherly  love,  of  intellectual  eleva- 
tion and  spiritual  enlargement,  the  happy  memories  of  which  the 
men  who  took  part  in  it  can  never  cease  to  cherish. 


^ 


100  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 


XI.  Farewell  Service  in  the  Parish  Church. 

The  great  crisis,  then,  was  over.  The  crowded  meetings,  over- 
flowing with  joyful  enthusiasm,  liad  to  be  left  behind,  and  men 
parted  to  go  home  and  meet,  as  best  they  might,  the  exertions 
and  privations  consequent  on  what  had  been  done.  Then  it 
was  that,  in  many  a  solitary  country  parish,  on  returning  to 
manses  and  churches  no  longer  their  own,  the  true  nature  of  the 
trial  was  fully  realised. 

"  It  was  my  privilege,"  says  Dr.  Hanna,  referring  to  the 
country  ministers,  the  real  sufferers  of  the  Disruption,  "to  know 
one  of  these  men,  the  father  of  a  large  family.  He  came  into 
Edinburgh,  signed  the  Deed  of  Demission,  and  set  out — it  was 
a  long  day's  journey — to  travel  home  on  foot  to  that  family 
whose  home  and  whose  support  he  had  signed  away.  He 
entered  a  house  by  the  wayside.  As  he  crossed  its  threshold, 
the  remembrance  flashed  suddenly  upon  him  that  it  was  thirty 
years  since  he  had  entered  that  door,  going  into  Edinburgh  to 
College,  a  solitary  and  friendless  youth.  Quickly  upon  that 
memory  the  thought  of  piety  linked  itself.  '  The  God,'  said  he 
to  himself,  *  who  has  hitherto  guided  me  and  mine  these  thirty 
years,  will  not  forsake  me  now.'  His  faith  in  his  Heavenly 
Father  put  fresh  strength  into  his  heart,  and  he  went  on  his 
way  with  a  light  and  elastic  step."  * 

Before  leaving  Edinburgh,  a  general  understanding  had  been 
come  to,  that  there  should  be  no  farewell  sermons,  no  formal 
taking  leave  of  the  parish  churches.  The  intensity  of  feeling  was 
already  so  deep  that  it  was  deemed  best  to  avoid  adding  to  the 
excitement.  In  towns,  and  among  the  leading  congregations, 
this  understanding  was  generally  acted  on,  but  each  minister 
*  The  Church  and  its  Living  Head,  by  Eev.  Dr.  Hanna,  pp.  23,  24. 


FAREWELL  SERVICE  IN  THE  PARISH  CHURCH.  101 

was  left  to  judge  for  himself,  and,  as  some  of  the  brethren 
resolved  to  hold  a  parting  service,  it  is  right  to  notice  the 
accounts  which  they  have  themselves  given  of  these  scenes. 

For  the  most  part  they  are  very  quietly  referred  to.  "  On 
the  11th  of  June  I  preached  for  the  last  time  in  the  Established 
church  which  I  had  occupied  for  twenty-eight  years,  taking  for 
a  text  in  the  Gaelic,  Micah  ii.  and  10,  'Arise  ye  and  depart,  for 
this  is  not  your  rest ;'  and  in  the  English,  Hebrews  xiii.  and  13, 
'  Let  us  go  forth  therefore  unto  him  without  the  camp,  bearing 
his  reproach.'  I  may  remark  here,  that  this  text  in  Hebrews 
occurred  to  me  with  particular  force  just  as  I  joined  the  pro- 
cession in  George  Street,  on  the  day  of  the  Disruption,  and  by 
the  comforting  impression  then  made  on  my  own  mind,  I  was 
led  to  address  my  congregation  from  it  in  taking  leave  of  the 
church."  * 

At  Flisk,  Mr.  Taylor's  statement  is  brief  :  "  On  the  next 
Sabbath  I  took  farewell  of  the  Establishment,  in  a  sermon  on 
Rev.  iii.  11,  '  Hold  that  fast  which  thou  hast,  that  no  man  take 
thy  crown.'  I  formally  stated  my  reason  for  the  decided  step. 
The  church  was  very  full.  There  was  deep  silence  and  solem- 
nity, and  some  were  in  tears."  -f- 

Mr.  Davidson,  of  Latheron,  gives  no  account  of  his  sermon, 
but  says  :  "  I  took  the  opportunity  of  explaining  to  my  congre- 
gation what  had  taken  place,  .  .  .  and  my  own  altered  situation 
in  consequence,  asking  them  to  make  up  their  minds  deliberately 
and  prayerfully  as  to  the  course  they  should  adopt  in  circum- 
stances so  solemn.  At  the  same  time,  I  intimated  a  meeting  of 
session  for  next  day,  in  order  to  afford  the  elders  an  oppor- 
tunity of  declaring  their  sentiments.  ...  I  pronounced  the 
benediction  and  left  the  pulpit,  where  I  had  been  privileged  to 
minister,  however  unworthily,  for  the  long  period  of  twenty-three 
years.  That  I  did  so  with  a  heavy  heart  may  readily  be  con- 
ceived, believing  as  I  did  that  in  all  probability  I  should  never 
enter  it  again.  In  this  feeling  the  congregation  very  deeply 
shared,  for  many  of  them  seemed  affected  to  tears  on  leaving 
the  church."  J 

*  yir.  Mackenzie,  of  Farr,  Dis.  Mss.  xx.  p.  4. 
t  Dis  Mss.  xxxvii.  p.  10.         +  Dis.  Mss.,  Parish  of  Latheron  p.  3. 


102  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

There  were  some  of  the  ministers  who  passed  through  a 
similar  state  of  feeling  at  an  earlier  stage,  their  knowledge  of 
the  world  causing  them  to  anticipate  the  time  of  trial.  Writing 
of  Dr.  Duncan  at  Euthwell,  Mrs.  D.  says :  "  About  that  time 
[more  than  a  year  before  the  Disruption]  I  think  the  deepest 
feeling  was  experienced.  ...  He  looked  on  the  Church  of  his 
childhood's .  habit  and  his  manhood's  choice  with  profound 
respect.  Convinced  that  in  her  principles  there  was  soundness 
and  strength,  it  overwhelmed  him  with  grief  to  see  her  overborne 
by  an  interference  that  he  counted  unscriptural  and  illegitimate. 
So  keen  was  this  feeling  in  him  that  more  than  once  at  the 
meetings  he  was  obliged  to  stop.  ...  It  was  remarkable  that 
he  never  was  overcome  to  that  extent  in  the  other  villages,  but 
in  the  Society  room  at  Euthwell  he  could  not  command  himself. 
.  .  .  For  forty  years  he  had  wedded  his  affections  to  his  people. 
That  room  he  had  procured  for  the  male  and  female  friendly 
societies,  and  there  were  carried  on  many  of  his  useful  opera- 
tions. There  he  had  helped  them  about  their  ballots  for  the 
militia  in  war  time.  There,  in  time  of  threatened  invasion,  he 
had  aroused  his  volunteers.  There,  in  times  of  scarcity,  he  had 
planned  with  them  the  bringing  of  ship-loads  of  Indian  corn 
and  potatoes,  and  there  the  stores  had  been  distributed.  There 
he  had  first  unfolded  his  opening  scheme  of  a  savings  bank  for 
his  own  parish.  There  he  had  many  times  examined  the  village 
Sabbath  school ;  and  there,  times  uncounted,  he  had  met  with 
them  of  an  evening  to  worship  God.  Two  evenings  in  parti- 
cular, when  he  was  completely  overcome,  there  sat  before  him 
those  whose  spiritual  condition  he  had  never  been  able  to 
influence,  and  when  he  looked  on  them  he  wept.  From  the 
time,  however,  when  the  Home  Secretary's  harsh  and  ill-con- 
sidered replies  to  all  the  Church's  requests  proved  to  him  that 
we  had  nothing  to  look  for  from  Government,  his  natural  forti- 
tude was  restored  to  him.  He  felt  that  each  must  take  their 
own  place,  and  stand  in  their  otvti  lot.  He  warned  his  people 
firmly  and  affectionately,  but  he  never  failed  again." 

Bearing  this  in  mind,  we  can  understand  the  calmness  witn 
which  the  farewell  service  was  quietly  gone  through  at  Euth- 
well on  the  last  Sabbath  before  the  Disruption.     "  The  period 


FAREWELL  SEKVICE  IN  THE  PARISH  CHURCH.  103 

seemed  perilous  ;  small  things  were  noted  with  unusual  obser- 
vance. As  we  crossed  the  grounds,  rendered  so  beautiful  by  his 
taste  and  skill,  on  our  way  to  church,  the  Sabbath  before  the 
Assembly,  to  our  astonishment  we  found  the  sun-dial  overturned. 
No  part  of  it  was  broken  but  the  stile.  *  You  will  never  more 
point  your  people  to  the  Sun  of  Eighteousness  in  Ruthwell 
Church,'  remarked  one  by  his  side.  '  Very  likely,'  was  his  quiet 
reply.  Farther  on  in  the  lawn  we  found  a  flourishing  evergreen 
torn  up  by  the  roots,  and  saw  our  neighbour's  herd  of  cattle 
before  us,  which  had  broken  into  the  garden.  '  Will  you  say 
next  that  old  James  is  not  to  work  again  in  this  garden/  asked 
another.  *  Most  likely,'  was  the  answer.  We  entered  the  dear 
old  church  with  solemn  thoughts,  and  heard  him  preach  a  ser- 
mon on  Christ  a  Priest  on  His  throne,  in  which  he  bore  his  last 
testimony  in  that  place  to  the  priestly  and  kingly  offices  of  his 
Divine  Redeemer."  * 

In  certain  cases  the  parting  took  place  after  the  Assembly, 
but  previous  to  the  Sabbath.  "  At  Woodside,  Aberdeen,  on 
Thursday,  June  1st,  a  large  assemblage  was  convened  in  the 
church  for  the  purpose  of  fully  discussing  the  whole  question. 
After  addressing  the  people  for  nearly  two  hours,  the  minister 
proceeded  in  conclusion  to  advert  to  the  prospects  of  the  con- 
gregation with  reference  to  their  place  of  worship,  and  to  the 
arrangements  necessary  to  be  made  for  the  succeeding  Sabbath, 
when  it  was  expected  that  the  pulpit  would  be  declared  vacant 
by  the  Established  Presbytery.  He  urged  upon  the  people  the 
necessity  of  quiet  and  becoming  conduct  on  the  solemn  occa- 
sion of  leaving  their  church,  entreating  them  to  show  to  their 
opponents  that  their  quarrel  was  not  with  men,  hut  with  prin- 
ciples, and  to  exhibit  towards  those  that  differed  from  them  the 
meekness  and  gentleness  of  Christ.  He  impressed  further  upon 
the  people  the  necessity  of  decision,  and  that  their  next  Sabbath 
would  be  the  testing  day  as  to  their  principles.  ...  He  con- 
cluded by  taking  a  solemn  leave  of  those  walls  within  which  they 
had  worshipped  so  long,  trusting  that  the  Lord  the  Spirit  would  be 
with  them  under  a  lowlier  roof,  and  prepare  them  for  meeting  at 
last  in  *a  house  not  made  with  hands,  eternal  in  the  heavens.'"i- 
*  Dis.  Mss.  xvi.  p.  4.  t  Dis.  Mss.  xxvii.  p.  5. 


104  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

Dr.  Grierson,  of  Errol,  has  given  his  experience  with  greater 
fulness.  "  There  was  a  very  large  attendance  of  the  parisWoners 
to  meet  with  me  in  church  on  the  Sabbath  after  my  return  from 
the  Assembly.  1 4iad  not  thought  it  either  expedient  or  natural 
to  take  leave  of  the  place  of  worship  before  the  Disruption  actu- 
ally occurred,  and  as  there  had  been  no  worship  in  the  parish 
church  on  the  first  Sabbath  of  the  Assembly,  I  was  anxious  to 
meet  with  all  my  people  there  once  more,  although  I  had  signed 
my  demission  as  a  minister  of  the  Establishment,  in  order  that 
I  might  under  such  solemn  circumstances  preach  and  press  on 
them  the  blessed  Gospel  which  many  of  them  would  never  again 
hear  from  my  lips,  and  that  I  might  afterwards,  lay  before  them 
all  when  thus  assembled  a  full  and  emphatic  statement  of  the 
grounds  on  which  I  had  taken  that  final  step  by  which  T  had 
surrendered  so  many  earthly  attachments  and  advantages.  .  .  . 
As  the  meeting  was  held  only  for  these  purposes,  the  services, 
though  I  preached  twice,  were  all  confined  to  that  one  meeting, 
at  the  close  of  which  I  took  as  solemn  a  leave  of  that  place  of 
worship  and  of  many  of  the  worsliippers  as  I  had  already  done 
of  the  Establishment,  and  intimated  that  public  worship  with 
the  adherents  of  the  Free  Church  would  be  observed  next  Lord's 
Day  in  the  open  air,  and  on  the  green  in  front  of  the  Manse. 
The  whole  audience  was  most  .deeply  afi'ected.  .  .  .  This  burst 
of  feeling  was  perfectly  overwhelming  to  myself  as  well  as  to 
others.  After  having  with  great  difficulty  of  articulation  pro- 
nounced the  benediction,  I  had  to  remain  in  the  pulpit  nearly  a 
quarter  of  an  hour  till  every  person  had  left  the  place  except 
my  chief  companion  in  this  painful  trial,  whom  I  found  standing 
at  the  end  of  her  accustomed  pew  in  tears,  the  children  having 
left  her.  .  .  .  That  was  to  me  the  most  heartrending  moment 
connected  with  the  Disruption,  yet  the  depth  of  the  sympathy 
and  attachment  which  had  been  manifested  afforded  me  very 
precious  consolation."  * 

One  more  of  these  parting  services  deserves  notice,  as  bringing 

out  the  testimony  of  a  father  of  the  Church,  already  referred  to 

in  these  pages,  who  held  a  prominent  place  in  the  North — Dr. 

Ross,  of  Lochbroom.     He  was  considered,  it  is  said,  the  best 

*  Dis.  Mss.  xi.  p.  5. 


FAEEWELL  SERVICE  IN  THE  PARISH  CHURCH.  105 

Gaelic  scholar  of  his  day,  spoke  with  fluency  five  languages, 
read  Hebrew  and  Greek  ad  aperturam,  a  man  of  general  culture, 
whom  Sir  David  Brewster  engaged  to  assist  him  when  publish- 
ing the  Edinburgh  Encyclopedia.  "  He  spent  a  most  useful  and 
honourable  life  among  his  people,  who  still  cling  to  his  memory 
with  fond  affection.  Dr.  Ross  was  one  of  those  who  saw,  at 
an  early  stage  of  the  struggle  with  the  Civil  Courts,  that  the 
maintenance  of  a  faithful  testimony  for  Christ  and  the  spiritual 
rights  of  His  people  would  end  in  the  separation  of  the  Church 
of  Scotland  from  the  State.  They  are  still  living  to  whom  he 
said,  five  years  before  the  Disruption,  that  it  would  take  place, 
and  that  they  would  see  the  road  leading  to  the  door  of  the 
Established  Church  of  Lochbroom  covered  with  grass,  as  the 
church  would  be  deserted  by  the  people,  because  it  would  be 
occupied  by  such  as  are  described  by  the  prophet  Isaiah,  Ivi.  10. 
The  first  Sabbath  after  the  Disruption,  Dr.  Eoss,  then  in  very 
infirm  health,  attended  the  church  as  a  hearer.  After  sermon 
by  the  Rev.  Mr.  Grant,  Dr.  Ross  rose  in  his  seat,  and,  with  tears 
running  from  his  eyes,  praised  the  Lord  for  the  testimony  to 
the  honour  of  Christ  given  by  the  Disruption  party.  He  then 
exhorted  the  people  to  leave  the  State  Church,  which,  almost 
to  a  man,  they  then  did,  and  to  this  day  [1867]  have  never 
returned,"* 

The  kind  of  statements,  however,  made  from  the  pulpit 
on  these  occasions  will  be  best  understood  from  one  or  two 
examples.  "In  May,  1840,"  says  Dr.  Parker,  of  Lesmaha- 
gow,  "  I  began  a  series  of  lectures  on  the  Old  Testament. 
...  On  the  Lord's  day  preceding  my  departure  to  attend  the 
Assembly  of  May,  1843,  I  was  brought  in  providence  to  the 
close  of  the  exposition  of  Genesis.  ...  I  preached  in  the 
parish  church  for  the  last  time  (May  28),  I  mentioned  that  I 
had  intended  that  day  ...  to  enter  on  the  exposition  of 
Exodus,  but  the  Lord  had  provided  other  work  for  me,  and 
was  calling  on  me  to  make  a  practical  Exodus,  and  depart  from 
the  thraldom  of  Egypt — the  Establishment,  now  thoroughly 
Erastianised.  ...  I  took  a  brief  review  of  God's  providential 
dealings  towards  our  Church  in  the  great  controversy  in  which 
*  Parker  Mss..  Pres.  of  Lochcarron. 


106  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

she  had  been  engaged.  I  added  that  while,  by  the  help  of  God, 
desirous  to  adhere  to  all  the  vows  and  obligations  under  t^hich- 
I  had  come  at  my  ordination,  .  .  .  and  maintaining  firmly  all 
the  standards  and  'principles  of  the  Church  of  Scotland,  I  could 
no  longer  continue  in  connection  with  an  Establishment  which 
had  virtually  denied  the  kingly  office  of  Christ,  and  submitted 
its  spiritual  jurisdiction  to  the  control  of  Csesar."  * 

In  closing  his  sermon  at  Crailing,  Mr.  Milroy  put  the  ques- 
tion :  "Why  is  our  relation  disturbed  ?  .  .  .  "Why,  so  happy,  so 
peaceful,  so  united,  do  we  not  remain  so  ?  .  .  .  Why  shall  the 
simple  music  of  the  church-bell  not  summon  us  again  together 
into  this  house  of  prajer,  awakening  devout  feelings,  solemn 
retrospect,  heavenly  anticipation?  Think  not,  dear  brethren, 
that  I  am  a  stranger  t(  these  ties.  .  .  .  Mine  is  not  the  heart 
to  be  insensible  to  sweet  associations  and  solemn  recollections, 
neither  do  I  disregard  the  manifold  advantages  of  the  position 
I  have  held.  .  .  .  But  there  is  something  dearer  to  the  Christian's 
heart  than  outward  peace,  .  .  .  and  that  is  the  honour  of  his 
Lord  and  Redeemer.  ...  By  events,  in  hastening  which  I  have 
had  no  part,  the  point  has  been  raised,  whether  or  not  we  shall 
continue  to  retain  the  civil  advantages  of  our  position  as  an 
Establishment  on  grounds  which,  to  say  the  least,  set  aside  and 
merge  the  glory  of  the  Redeemer  as  King  of  Zion  and  sole  Head 
of  the  Church.  ...  I  have  preferred  to  resign  worldly  advan- 
tages, rather  than  retain  them  on  wrong  conditions.  I  am  not 
insensible  to  the  sacrifice,  neither  are  my  hopes  sanguine  as  to 
the  future,  but  the  present  path  of  duty  only  is  ours. 

"Ever  since  I  came  amongst  you,  ...  I  have  set  myself 
against  that  accommodating  religion  which  will  go  so  far  with 
Christ,  but  will  not  follow  Him  wholly.  And  now  I  am  called 
myself  to  set  you  the  example.  Interest  and  feeling  stand 
ranged  on  one  side,  principle  on  another.  I  choose  the  latter. 
I  cleave  to  Christ's  supremacy,  and  I  trust  to  be  remembered 
among  you  even  after  my  body  shall  slumber  in  the  dust,  as  one 
who  honestly  urged  you  to  give  yourselves  wholly  to  Christ,  and 
who  himself  set  you  the  example  by  sacrificing  his  earthly 
advantages  for  Christ's  crown  and  glory.  .  .  .  Between  me  and 
*  Dis.  Mss.  xxxi.  p.  5. 


FAREWELL  SERVICE  IN  THE  PARISH  CHURCH.  107 

not  a  few  of  this  flock  I  trust  the  bond  will  yet  subsist.  .  .  . 
With  others  I  fear  the  pastoral  connection  is  to  cease,  because 
of  their  mistaken,  I  question  not,  conscientious  attachment  to 
the  walls  and  notion  of  an  Establishment.  Such,  in  my  estima- 
tion, prefer  the  outward  shadow  to  the  inward  substance,  these 
external  circumstances  to  the  grand  principles  on  which  the 
Church  of  Scotland  has  been  based.  These  principles  we  retain. 
.  .  .  With  us,  then,  is  the  Church  of  Scotland;  with  others 
are  the  civil  advantages  she  once  enjoyed. 

"  For  yourselves,  I  entreat  you  to  consider  well  the  part  you 
act.  As  for  me,  God  forbid  that  I  should  cease  to  pray  for  you. 
.  .  .  When  I  look  back,  dear  brethren,  if  I  feel  regret,  it  is  the 
regret  of  not  holding  forth  with  sufficient  fervour  the  over- 
whelming love  of  Jesus,  of  not  being  touched  enough  with  the 
misery  of  perishing  souls.  Oh !  that  I  may  live  henceforth  under 
this  twofold  impression  of  the  love  of  Jesus,  and  the  value  of 
immortal  souls.  Him,  having  not  seen,  do  I  love.  He  is  a 
blessed  Master  to  serve.  This  has  been  my  testimony  when  the 
candle  of  prosperity  has  been  shining ;  it  is  my  testimony  now 
that  the  cloud  of  adversity  is  overhanging.  Come,  oh,  come  into 
the  service  of  this  Master.  Away  with  coldness,  away  with 
formality,  away  with  deadness.  Arise,  arise,  and  return  to 
your  God.  .  .  .  Come,  0  Spirit  of  the  living  God,  and  breathe 
on  these  slain,  that  they  may  live.     Amen  and  amen."  * 

*  Extracted  from  Mss.  furnished  by  his  son,  the  Kev.  A.  W.  Milroy, 
M.A.  Oxon.,  Keader  at  the  Eolls,  London. 


108  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 


XII.  First  Service  in  the  Free  Chuech  Congregation. 

If  there  was  pain  in  leaving  the  old  churches,  the  loved  scenes 
of  former  labour,  yet  the  real  point  of  anxiety  was  the  first 
meeting  of  the  several  Free  Church  congregations  on  the  suc- 
ceeding Sabbath.  On  the  numbers  who  might  then  rally 
round  the  pastor  depended  his  whole  prospects  of  usefulness, 
and,  indeed,  of  support,  through  life.  In  many  a  manse  men 
looked  forward  with  much  misgiving  to  that  memorable  Sab- 
bath morning  when,  all  over  Scotland,  the  hitherto  united  con- 
gregations were  to  be  seen  breaking  up  and  going  in  opposite 
directions.  In  giving  some  examples  of  the  scenes  which  took 
place,  it  will  be  seen  how  calmly,  for  the  most  part,  the  circum- 
stances are  spoken  of. 

There  were  parishes  in  which  the  results  went  far  beyond 
what  ministers  had  expected.  At  Eoslin,  for  three  months 
after  the  Convocation,  Mr.  Brown  states,  the  aspect  of  matters 
was  very  dark  and  discouraging.  About  the  end  of  that  period 
he  tried  privately  what  could  be  done  in  the  way  of  collecting 
money  for  building  a  new  church,  but  he  found  no  one  willing 
to  do  anything.  Subsequently,  matters  were  more  promising, 
and,  after  the  Disruption,  "  the  first  meeting  was  held,  on  the 
28tli  of  May,  in  the  old  graveyard  near  Roslin  Castle,  in  the 
presence  of  a  very  large  congregation,  though  the  intimation 
of  the  meeting  there  had  been  made  only  on  the  preceding  day. 
He  conducted  public  worship  on  each  of  the  next  eighteen 
Sabbaths  in  succession  in  the  same  beautiful  and  romantic 
situation,  with  the  exception  of  one  Sabbath,  which  was  rather 
unfavourable."  Of  240  communicants,  200  came  out,  and  40 
remained  in  the  Establishment.* 

*  Dis.  Mss.  xiv.  pp.  1-3. 


FIEST  SERVICE  IN  THE  FKEE  CHUECH  CONGREGATION.         109 

Dr.  Landsborough,  of  Stevenston,  had,  as  we  have  seen, 
declared  that  very  few  would  follow  him,  and  had  received  the 
reply,  "  There  will  perhaps  be  more  than  you  think."  Accord- 
ingly, he  tells  the  result :  "  When  I  returned  from  the  General 
Assembly,  it  was  arranged  that  I  should  preach  in  the  Free- 
masons' Hall  in  the  forenoon.  ...  In  going  to  the  hall  I  met 
few  coming  to  the  Established  church,  and  I  saw  few  going  on 
their  way  to  the  hall,  so  that  I  knew  not  how  matters  were 
going  on.  When  I  reached  the  hall  I  found  that  it  was  com- 
pletely filled,  and  a  crowd  standing  about  the  door  who  could 
not  gain  admission.  The  Eev.  Gilbert  Laing,  who  imexpectedly 
arrived,  readily  consented  to  officiate  in  another  hall.  ...  In 
the  Freemasons'  Hall,  for  the  first  time  as  a  minister  of  the 
Free  Protesting  Church  of  Scotland,  I  preached  to  a  densely 
crowded  and  most  attentive  congregation."* 

Sometimes  the  meeting  was  held  in  the  minister's  house. 
At  Morningside,  Dr.  Chalmers  opened  his  own  dwelling-house, 
and  converted  it  into  a  church ;  and  "  perhaps  he  never  occu- 
pied a  more  picturesque  position  than  when,  planted  midway 
up  the  staircase,  he  preached  to  a  disjointed  congregation, 
scattered  into  dififerent  rooms,  all  of  whom  could  hear,  but 
not  half  of  whom  could  see,  the  clergyman." -f- 

At  Innerwick,  near  Dunbar,  the  first  Free  Church  service 
was  held  on  11th  June  in  the  manse.  The  congregation, 
amounting  to  about  the  usual  number,  filled  the  rooms  and 
staircase,  while  the  minister,  Mr.  Forman,  stood  in  the  lobby. 
When,  at  the  close,  he  intimated  that  in  the  course  of  the  week 
he  would  remove  with  his  family  to  the  town  of  Dunbar,  and 
that  he  was  as  yet  uncertain  where  a  place  would  be  found  in 
which  to  address  them  next  Lord's  Day,  there  were  many  of  his 
hearers  whose  stifled  sobs  and  watery  eyes  expressively  testi- 
fied the  intensity  of  their  feelings.J 

For  the  most  part,  however,  it  was  in  the  open  air  that  the 
first  meetings  were  held.  At  Monkton,  Mr.  Burns  and  his 
adhering  people  retired  to  a  stackyard  at  the  back  of  the 
farm    of  West  Orangefield,  where   for   many  months  in  the 

*  Dis.  Mss.  xxxix.  p.  3.  t  Memoirs  of  Dr.  Chalmers,  iv.  357. 

X  Witness,  14th  June,  1$43. 


110  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISKUPTION. 

memorable  summer  of  1843  they  heard  the  "Word  with  glad- 
ness *  '^ 

At  Moy,  Inverness-shire,  Dr.  M'Lauchlan  states  :  "  The  first 
Sabbath  after  niy -return  from  Edinburgh  and  the  Disruption 
Assembly  was  the  4th  of  June.  The  day  was  cold  and  dis- 
couraging, the  only  one  of  the  kind  during  the  summer.  The 
place  of  meeting  was  chosen  by  the  people  themselves  in  the 
Ballintraan  Wood,  about  the  middle  of  the  parish.  This  day 
was  to  test  the  feelings  of  the  people,  and  I  was  anxious  ;  but 
the  attendance  was  good,  embracing  every  man  of  any  conse- 
quence in  the  parish  at  the  time,  and  several  from  the  parish 
of  Duthil.  My  text  was  from  Ps.  Ixxxiii.  4.  I  was  much 
encouraged  to  find  the  people  so  hearty." -f* 

At  Euthwell,  on  the  second  Sabbath  of  the  Assembly,  "  the 
Rev.  Horatius  Bonar,  of  Kelso,  preached  on  the  green  hillside 
[on  the  farm  of  Mr.  Rogerson],  to  between  2000  and  3000 
people  [Dr.  Duncan  had  written  from  Edinburgh,  giving  direc- 
tions to  have  the  whins  removed].  Vehicles  of  many  descrip- 
tions were  there  from  great  distances.  Solemnity,  curiosity, 
and  anxiety  occupied  the  feelings  of  the  crowd.  They  expected 
much  of  Church  affairs;  but  it  was  too  good  an  opportunity 
for  preaching  the  everlasting  Gospel.  .  .  .  The  Plant  of  Renown 
was  his  subject ;  and  I  have  heard  some  who  say  that  in  eter- 
nity they  will  bless  the  Lord  for  having  heard  the  Plant  de- 
scribed that  day."  J 

At  Ayr,  the  church  of  Mr.  Grant  was  one  of  the  quoad  sacra 
churches,  built  chiefly  by  the  Evangelical  party ;  and  he  says  : 
"  We  were  inclined,  if  possible,  to  retain  the  building.  .  .  .  The 
first  Sabbath  of  August,  1843,  was  to  be  my  first  communion 
[Mr.  Grant  had  been  ordained  23rd  April,  1843].  Eight  days 
previously,  an  interdict  from  the  Court  of  Session  was  handed 
to  me,  forbidding  me  the  use  of  the  church.  This  quite  took 
us  by  surprise.  We  were  not  aware  that  such  a  step  had  been 
proj)osed.  At  the  instigation  of  the  parish  minister  of  St. 
Quivox,  a  few  members  of  the  congregation,  who  had  not  con- 
tributed one  sixpence  towards  the  erection  of  the  church,  had 

*  Dis.  Mss,  xxxiv.  p.  3.  t  Dis.  xlix.  p.  6. 

X  Dis.  Mss.  xvi.  pp.  5,  6. 


FIEST  SERVICE  IN  THE  FEEE  CHUKCH  CONGREGATION.        Ill 

been  induced  to  apply  for  an  interdict ;  and  the  matter  had 
been  pressed  on  quickly,  for  the  purpose  of  excluding  us  from 
the  church  on  our  communion  Sabbath,  This  was  done,  as  we 
afterwards  learned,  under  the  idea  that,  as  my  people  had  never 
partaken  of  the  Supper  with  me,  they  might  not  consider  them- 
selves bound  to  my  ministry  ;  and,  if  prevented  from  partici- 
pating at  that  time  in  their  own  church,  might  detach  themselves 
from  me.  It  proved  a  great  mistake ;  for  not  a  few  of  my 
people  who  were  at  that  time  irresolute,  regarded  the  interdict 
as  an  insult  to  the  congregation,  and  dishonouring  to  the  Lord's 
Supper,  and  at  once  gave  in  their  adherence  to  the  Free  Church. 

"  The  interdict  was  received  at  the  end  of  the  week — I  think, 
on  Saturday.  On  Sabbath,  when  the  congregation  assembled 
they  found  the  doors  locked.  The  elders  directed  tiiem  to  a 
school-house  close  beside.  When  I  entered,  it  was  crowded. 
Among  others,  I  recognised  the  well-known  face  of  Alexander 
Murray  Dunlop,  then  on  a  visit  in  Ayr,  After  the  first  Psalm, 
we  adjourned  to  the  street,  and  kept  our  preparation  Sabbath 
in  the  open  air.  I  well  remember  the  relief  I  felt  when,  during 
prayer,  a  lady  held  her  parasol  to  shelter  my  head  from  the 
blazing  sun.  .  .  .  On  the  sacramental  Sabbath  we  assembled  in 
Mr.  William  Alexander's  woodyard.  The  logs  were  arranged 
for  seats  for  the  congregation,  and  the  pulpit  and  tables  were 
placed  under  cover  of  the  sawpit.  Rain  having  come  on,  some 
old  sails  were  stretched  out  as  a  covering  for  the  people.  It 
was  a  day  much  to  be  remembered.  Some  of  my  people  still 
surviving  [1875]  often  speak  of  it,  and  especially  of  the  evening 
sermon  by  the  Rev.  P.  Borrowman,  of  Glencairn,  on  the  white 
stone  and  the  New  Name."* 

The  venerable  Dr.  Burns,  at  Kilsyth,  on  returning  from 
Edinburgh,  had  preached  his  farewell  sermon  in  the  churchyard, 
"  near  the  tomb  of  Mr,  feobe,  of  pious  memory,  to  a  very  large 
assembly,  from  1  Peter  iv.  17,  '  If  judgment  begin  at  the  house 

of  God,'  &c The'  day  was  favourable,  the  sun   shone 

bright,  the  scene  was  truly  affecting  and  impressive."  It  was 
on  the  succeeding  Sabbath,  4th  June,  that  the  Free  Church 
congregation  first  met.  Public  worship  was  conducted  on 
*  Dis.  Mas,  xli,  pp.  6-8. 


■^^* 


112  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

"  a  beautiful  sloping  bank  on  the  side  of  the  Garrel  Burn, 
.  .  .  near  the  church  now  left  after  twenty-two  years'  opcupa- 
tion,  and  within  the  walls  of  which  scenes  ever  memorable  and 
sweet  and  solemn  had  been  witnessed.  The  morning  had 
threatened  rain,  but  many  prayers  had  been  put  up  for  a 
favourable  day.  By  eleven  o'clock  the  day  cleared  up.  Within 
the  house  of  Mr.  Thomas  Shaw  the  minister's  Bible  was  deposited, 
and  this  godly  man  accompanied  him  to  the  tent  carrying  the 
Bible  under  his  arm,  and  as  the  church-bell  sounded  to  declare  a 
vacancy,  the  Free  Church  hearers  were  thronging  to  the  tent  brae, 
where,  for  two  hours,  they  heard  the  Word  from  their  outed 
minister — the  text,  2  Cor.  ii.  14.  He  was  carried  through  the 
work  of  the  day  comfortably,  though  it  is  not  easy  to  describe 
the  feelings  of  himself  and  family  on  that  occasion."  "  We 
trust  the  Lord  was  with  us  in  the  field,  by  the  stream  from  the 
mountain,  while  there  were  some  falling  tears  when  we  thought 
of  the  Sabbaths  gone  by."  * 

Such  scenes  as  these  were  taking  place  in  all  the  country  dis- 
tricts of  Scotland.  Even  in  the  larger  towns  the  first  meetings 
of  the  Free  Church  congregations  were  often  held  in  striking 
circumstances. 

At  Woodside,  Aberdeen,  it  was  resolved  to  meet  "  in  the  open 
air,  in  the  spacious  playground  of  the  school,  which  was  accord- 
ingly seated  for  the  purpose,  and  was  capable  of  containing 
upwards  of  1500  persons.  A  small  pulpit  was  placed  at  one 
end,  and  an  awning  spread  above  it  as  a  protection  from  the 
weather.  The  morning  of  Sabbath,  4th  June,  was  cold  and  un- 
genial.  Dark  clouds  overspread  the  sky,  and  a  cold  wind  blew 
from  the  north.  Long  before  the  hour  of  worship  the  people 
began  to  assemble  in  the  playground,  and  by  eleven  o'clock  it 
was  densely  filled  by  more  than  1500  persons,  many  having 
come  from  a  distance  to  witness  so  novel  a  spectacle.  The 
minister  commenced  by  singing  the  first  four  verses  of  Psalm 
XX.,  and  after  prayer, preached  from  Acts  xxiv.  14-16,  'But this 
I  confess  unto  thee,  that  after  the  way  which  they  call  heresy,  so 
worship  I  the  God  of  my  fathers,'  &c.  The  service  closed  with 
the  baptism  of  two  children.  The  whole  proceedings  were  con- 
*  Dis.  Mss.  XX ix.  pp.  9,  31. 


FIRST  SERVICE  IN  THE  FREE  CHURCH  CONGREGATION.        113 

ducted  in  the  most  orderly  manner.    A  spirit  of  deep  solemnity 
pervaded  the  assembly."  * 

Mr.  M'Eean,  minister  of  the  Gaelic  congregation  at  Greenock, 
attempted  at  first  to  keep  possession  of  his  quoad  sacra 
church,  but  the  Established  Presbytery  were  prompt  in  their 
action.  On  Saturday,  24th  June,  he  was  at  their  instance 
interdicted  from  entering  his  pulpit.  "This  Was  the  crisis 
in  the  history  of  the  Gaelic  congregation,  ...  a  time  of 
great  anxiety.  .  .  .  The  office-bearers,  in  the  emergency,  agreed 
to  ask  the  magistrates  for  the  use  of  the  Duncan  Street  burying- 
ground,  the  right  of  management  being  in  the  corporation. 
Their  application  was  at  once  granted,  and  the  people  assembled 
there  the  following  day  at  eleven.  This  Sabbath,  June  25th, 
will  be  ever  memorable  in  the  history  of  the  Free  Gaelic  con- 
gregation. The  burying-ground  presented  a  scene  that  day 
which  can  never  be  forgotten  by  those  who  witnessed  it.  It 
was  a  bright,  warm,  sunny  day,  so  that  the  people  experienced 
little  inconvenience  by  worshipping  in  the  open  air.  Let  us 
hope  it  was  also  a  day  in  which  the  Sun  of  Righteousness 
arose  with  healing  on  His  wings  to  many.  A  tent  was  erected 
near  the  centre  of  the  ground,  from  which  Mr.  M'Bean  preached 
in  the  forenoon  in  Gaelic,  from  Hebrews  xi.  25,  '  Choosing 
rather  to  suffer  affliction  with  the  people  of  God,'  &c.  ;  and  it 
aflforded  him  unfeigned  satisfaction  to  see  that  the  people  had 
all  adhered  to  the  Free  Church,  with  only  one  or  two  exceptions. 
In  the  afternoon  many  from  other  congregations  joined  in  the 
services,  being  drawn  together  partly  from  sympathy  with  the 
outed  minister  and  his  people,  and  partly,  no  doubt,  from  the 
novelty  of  the  scene,  so  far  at  least  as  Greenock  was  concerned. 
His  text  on  this  occasion  was  Hebrews  x.  34,  '  For  ye  had 
compassion  on  me  in  my  bonds,  and  took  joyfully  the  spoil- 
ing of  your  goods,'  &c.,  from  which  he  preached  an  eloquent 
and  powerful  discourse ;  and  in  the  evening  the  Eev.  John 
Glass,  of  Bracadale,  afterwards  of  Musselburgh,  preached  from 
Hebrews  ii.  3,  '  How  shall  we  escape  if  we  neglect  so  great 
salvation,'  with  his  characteristic  earnestness  and  zeal,  to  a 
large  and  attentive  assemblage."  -|- 

*  Dis.  Mss.  xxviL  p.  5.  t  Parker  Mss.,  Pres.  of  Greenock. 

I 


]14  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISKUPTION. 

So  far  as  the  town  congregations,  however,  were  concerned, 
open-air  services  were  the  exception.  A  much  more  fre- 
quent case  was  such  as  that  of  St.  Andrew's  congregation, 
Glasgow,  so  well' described  by  Dr,  Paterson,  On  returning 
from  the  Assembly,  he  states  that  he  found  "  the  elders  in  a 
pother,  totally  unprovided  with  a  place  for  the  remnant  to 
meet  in  next  -Sabbath,  and  it  was  then  Friday  evening  .  .  . 
Instead  of  going  to  my  sermons  (I  had  counted  on  only  one,  but 
a  scheme  of  exchange  had  failed),  I  must  set  out  in  quest  of  the 
elders,  to  see  what  must  be  done  in  such  an  emergency.  I  had 
only  gone  a  little  way  when  I  met  an  angel  with  a  smiling  face 
— Meekie,  who,  with  her  brother,  was  hieing  to  our  house. 
She  is  my  jewel,  I  should  rather  say  God's,  and  the  world  will 
never  go  ill  with  me  as  long  as  she  is  in  it.  She  had  that  day 
more  joy  than  a  kingdom  could  have  given  her.  One  of  her 
nearest  friends  had  become  serious.  After  a  brief  welcome,  she 
told  me  a  place  was  procured,  and  an  advertisement  sent  to  two 
newspapers,  placards  ready,  and  circulars,  which  were  to  be  sent 
to  some  hundreds  of  the  congregation.  It  was  justly  said  by 
one  of  the  best  of  our  session,  that  Miss  M.  was  better  than  six 
elders.  I  immediately  turned  with  the  party  to  see  the  place. 
It  was  the  very  room  where  the  same  congregation  gave  me  a 
public  dinner  on  my  installation  in  Glasgow.  .  .  .  This  room  of 
the  Black  Bull  Inn  had  been  obtained  at  the  request  of  Miss  M. 
The  landlady  is  decidedly  with  us ;  her  husband  wavering  ;  the 
family  belong  to  my  flock.  Mercy  is  twice  blessed.  The 
hostess  consented  with  tears,  saying  that  my  angel  had  been 
sent  by  God,  for  they  had  been  in  doubt  whether  to  remain 
with  the  walls,  and  this  had  come  just  to  confirm  them.  On 
Sabbath  morning,  instead  of  the  vestry,  I  was  accoutred  in  the 
parlour  of  a  public-house.  I  could  not  help  asking  an  elder 
who  was  present,  whether  anybody  had  come.  He  said,  with  a 
grave  countenance,  there  were  some.  My  text  was,  '  Behold 
the  Bridegroom  cometh,  go  ye  out  to  meet  him.'  This  subject 
for  both  diets  was  suggested  by  Meekie  on  her  seeing  a  miUe- 
narian  placard  to  that  effect  on  the  posts  of  the  doors  within 
which  we  were  to  assemble.  My  use  of  the  text,  no  doubt  differ- 
ing from  that  of  the  millenarian,  was,  Go  out,  for  the  Bridegroom 


FIRST  SERVICE  IN  THE  FREE  CHURCH  CONGREGATION.        115 

will  not  come  in.  When  the  bells  had  rung  their  last  peal,  the 
grave  elder  returned  with  a  bright  face,  and  said  the  hall  was 
choke  full,  and  that  one  of  the  audience  had  just  been  to  St. 
Andrew's  for  his  books,  where  Mr.  Smith,  of  Cathcart,  a  sympa- 
thiser, was  to  preach,  and  where,  at  five  minutes  to  eleven 
o'clock,  only  three  persons  had  assembled.  This  was  something 
like  going  out ;  my  heart  rose  like  a  balloon,  and  I  never  went 
to  a  pulpit  with  more  comfort,  or  preached  with  more  freedom. 
They  say  that  listeners  never  hear  good  of  themselves,  and  it 
is  as  probable  that  spies  see  as  little.  In  our  hall,  a  boy  was 
heard  counting  away  at  heads  behind  backs,  and  the  vile  work 
came  afterwards  to  be  explained.  The  boy  is  a  boarder  with 
Mr.  Allan,  a  teacher,  a  probationer,  a  rampant  Moderate,  and 
an  elder  of  St.  Andrew's  walls.  The  boy  knows  my  boys,  and 
told  them  he  was  sent  by  his  master  to  count  both  congrega- 
tions. His  report  was  :  in  the  hall,  456 — alas,  it  could  hold  no 
more ;  in  the  church,  35 — alas,  it  could  hold  1200.  .  .  .  And 
now,  having  done  with  this  wonderful  day,  I  am  grateful  to 
add,  that  never  had  I  more  content  or  a  frame  of  spirit  more 
disposed  to  praise  the  Lord  for  His  goodness.  I  shall  have  less 
money,  but  many  retrenchments  will  now  be  honourable,  and 
I  have  no  fear  of  suffering  want."*  [It  may  be  added,  Dr. 
Forbes,  of  St.  Paul's,  in  a  letter  of  date  10th  August,  1874, 
not  long  before  his  death,  characterises  the  above  statement  as 
an  admirable  account  of  the  proceedings  of  the  first  Sabbath, 
and  adds,  that  it  may  be  taken  as  a  lively  account  of  the  general 
proceedings  of  that  day  in  Glasgow.] 

At  Errol,  Dr.  Grierson's  expectations  of  the  numbers  who 
should  adhere  to  the  Free  Church  were  not  great.  The  place  of 
meeting  was  the  green  in  front  of  the  manse.  "  When  the  day 
came  (June  4th),  the  appearances  at  first  were  very  unpromising. 
I  had  shut  myself  up  in  my  study,"  he  says,  "  that  I  might  not 
have  my  thoughts  distracted  or  my  feelings  agitated  by  what 
was  passing  without.  I  learned,  however,  that  even  when  the 
time  appointed  for  our  public  worship  was  almost  come,  an 
earlier  hour  than  usual  having  been  found  necessary,  no  hearers 
had  come  to  occupy  the  seats  placed  for  them  on  the  green 
•  Mr.  Nath.  Paterson's  Letters,  with  Memoir,  pp.  149,  150. 


116  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

except  two  widows  in  bumble  life,  each  of  whom  as  she  passed 
the  collection  plate,  dropped  into  it  her  consecrated  mit5^  But 
shortly  afterwards,  the  people  began  to  assemble  in  considerable 
numbers^  when  it  appeared  that  they  had  lingered  in  the  neigh- 
bourhood, and  had  not  taken  their  places  till  almost  the  last 
moment,  as  if  they  had  felt  that  their  assembling  in  such  a  spot 
before  the  worship  was  about  to  begin  was  somewhat  like 
invading  the  privacy  of  domestic  life. 

"  The  place  of  meeting  was  extremely  picturesque  and  retired. 
It  was  immediately  in  front  of  the  manse,  in  the  form  of  an 
oval,  and  entirely  enclosed  by  tall  shrubs,  chiefly  laurels,  inter- 
spersed with  lilacs  and  laburnums — the  former  lifting  their 
fragrant  and  massy  tufts,  and  the  latter  hanging  forth  their 
golden  and  waving  tassels  over  the  others.  The  scenery  of  the 
immediate  neighbourhood  was  all  shut  out,  except  the  tower 
and  pinnacles  of  that  church  which  we  had  so  lately  left.  The 
pulpit,  which  had  been  brought  down  the  evening  before  on  the 
willing  shoulders  of  some  dozen  of  the  young  men,  was  placed 
with  its  back  to  the  east,  so  that  the  occupant  might  be  shel- 
tered from  the  wind  blowing  from  that  quarter,  and  was  flanked 
by  a  tall  and  taper  young  yew-tree,  whose  solemn  verdure  har- 
monised well  with  the  nature  of  the  services  which  were  to  be 
celebrated  so  near  it. 

"  The  pulpit  itself  was  thatwhich  had  belonged  to  the  church 
that  was  taken  down  after  the  present  one  had  been  erected. 
It  had  been  presented  to  me  by  the  heritors  as  the  one  from 
which  I  had  been  addressed  on  the  day  of  my  ordination,  and 
from  which  I  had  preached  for  nearly  the  first  fourteen  years 
of  my  ministry ;  and,  as  was  noticed  at  the  time,  the  person 
who  by  appointment  that  day  occupied  the  pulpit  I  had  left 
was  the  very  individual  who  had  presided  when  the  Presbytery 
ordained  me.  A  few  of  my  parishioners,  not  quite  two  years 
before,  though  not  in  anticipation  of  the  events  which  had 
now  occurred,  had  presented  me  with  a  handsome  family  Bible 
and  Psalm-book ;  and  when  these  were  carried  before  me,  and 
placed  in  the  pulpit  by  my  youngest  child,  a  boy  of  seven  years 
of  age,  who  had  requested  permission  to  perform  this  service, 
many  in  the  meeting,  as  I  was  afterwards  informed,  were  sen- 


FIRST  SERVICE  IN  THE  FREE  CHURCH  CONGREGATION.        117 

sibly  affected.  When  I  walked  through  the  rows  of  the  people, 
some  seated  on  forms,  some  on  the  grass,  and  many  of  them 
standing,  and  took  my  seat  in  my  old  pulpit,  I  was  at  first 
much  overpowered ;  but  during  the  singing  of  the  psa]m,  which 
in  ordinary  course  happened  to  be  the  65th,  I  regained  ray 
composure,  which  was  not  again  disturbed,  although  in  the 
course  of  the  first  prayer  the  bell  of  the  parish  dhurch,  which 
had  then  ceased  to  be  under  my  control,  kept  ringing  for  the 
whole  of  the  usual  time. 

"  My  text  was  Hebrews  xi.  24-27,  which  occupied  me  the 
whole  day.  The  people  were  extremely  attentive,  and  when  I 
came  to  the  application  of  the  subject  in  the  afternoon,  having 
by  this  time  obtained  a  lithographed  copy  of  the  Deed  of  Demis- 
sion, with  the  signatures  of  all  the  470  ministers,  I  threw  it 
open  over  the  side  of  the  pulpit,  as  a  recent  and  practical  illus- 
tration of  the  noble  principles  embodied  in  the  text,  which 
seemed  to  produce  a  very  powerful  impression.  It  was  calcu- 
lated that  between  six  and  seven  hundred  persons  were  present. 
Some  of  them,  as  I  was  fully  aware,  had  been  attracted  merely 
by  the  novelty  of  the  occasion,  or  some  such  motive,  and  with- 
out any  intention  of  adhering  to  our  solemn  Protest ;  while 
others  who  really  intended  to  do  so  would,  as  it  was  to  be 
feared,  and  ultimately  proved  to  be  the  case,  be  intimidated, 
importuned,  or  enticed  to  withdraw  from  us.  The  first  time 
that  I  had  any  leisure  to  attend  particularly  to  the  numbers 
that  were  present  was  at  the  dismissal  after  the  forenoon  ser- 
vice. Being  called  up  to  the  staircase  window,  I  saw  the  road 
from  the  manse  to  the  village,  a  distance  of  fully  two  hundred 
yards,  covered  with  people  for  nearly  its  whole  extent  as  closely 
as  they  could  walk.  They  were  generally  of  the  humbler 
classes ;  but  their  liberal  collection  —  about  eight  times  the 
amount  of  the  average  before  we  left  the  Establishment — 
showed  that  their  hearts  were  with  us.  At  this  sight  I  burst 
into  tears,  thanked  God,  and  took  courage."  * 

Dr.  Simpson,  of  Kintore,  h  id  looked  forward  to  the  Disrup- 
tion with  painful  emotions  on  many  grounds.  "  Though  I 
never  failed,"  he  says,  "  to  record  my  vote  in  the  Church 
*  Dis.  Mss.  xi.  pp.  .5-7. 


118  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

Courts,  and  to  keep  the  subject  in  the  view  of  my  people,  yet 
the  controversy  became  to  me  extremely  unpleasant^  and, 
strange  as  it  may  seem,  I  sought'  refuge  from  it  in  a  course  of 
study  altogether  unconnected  with  its  immediate  bearing.  .  .  . 
I  was  all  the  while,  however,  .  .  .  determined  to  stand  or 
fall  by  the  principles  I  had  conscientiously  espoused,  leaving 
events  to  God. 

"  I  was  perfectly  aware  that  a  considerable  number  of  my 
people  favoured  the  cause  to  which  I  adhered ;  but  I  did  not 
expect  that  more  than  a  small  section  of  them  would  take  the 
decisive  step  of  seceding  from  the  Established  Church  along 
with  me.  I  had  even  some  doubts  whether  it  would  be  practi- 
cable or  expedient  to  form  a  Free  Church  congregation  in  Kin- 
tore.  But  these  unworthy  misgivings  were  speedily  dissipated. 
The  event  showed  that  I  did  my  people  great  injustice  in  the 
opinion  I  had  formed  of  them.  I  shall  never  forget  the  feel- 
ings I  experienced  on  first  entering  the  Farmers'  Hall,  in  which 
we  held  our  meetings  for  public  worship  till  the  new  church 
was  erected.  Mrs,  Simpson  had  been  taken  iU  that  Sabbath 
morning,  and  I  felt  very  much  the  want  of  her  cheering  sup- 
port in  the  trying  duties  of  the  day.  I  therefore  left  the  manse 
with  inexpressible  sadness  of  heart.  Such  was  my  extreme 
depression  of  spirits  that  I  fancied  I  derived  strength  and 
encouragement  from  the  presence  even  of  my  two  eldest  chil- 
dren [both  under  ten  years  of  age],  whose  little  hands  I  grasped 
with  eagerness  as  I  walked  along.  But,  oh,  how  my  almost 
fainting  heart  was  revived  and  sustained  when  I  surveyed  the 
interesting  assembly,  and  saw  so  many  of  those  of  my  former 
flock,  whom  I  loved  most  dearly,  seated  around  my  humble 
pulpit,  and  bending  on  me  intent  looks  of  the  tenderest  attach- 
ment and  kindest  sympathy.  The  only  tears  I  shed  in  con- 
nection with  the  Disruption  burst  from  my  eyes  at  this  moment, 
and  they  were  not  tears  of  grief,  but  of  lively  gratitude  and  joy."* 

Even  in  localities  where  the  Free  Church  proved  to  be  excep- 
tionally strong,  that  Sabbath  morning  was  a  time  of  anxiety 
and  misgiving,  as  may  be  seen  from  the  experience  of  Mr. 
Craig  of  Eothesay  : — 

*  Dis.  Mss.,  Dr.  Simpson,  Kintore,  pp.  2,  3. 


FIRST  SEEVICE  IN  THE  FEEE  CHUECH  CONGEEGATION.        119 

"The  parish  manse  of  Rothesay  stands  on  the  slope  of  a 
hill  by  the  side  of  the  road,  called  the  Minister's  Brae.  ...  It 
looks  across  the  valley  in  which  the  town  is  situated.  .  .  .  From 
the  upper  windows  a  fine  view  is  obtained  of  the  entire  town 
and  bay,  .  .  .  the  entrance  to  the  Kyles  of  Bute,  and  their 
varied  and  attractive  scenery.  It  is  surrounded  by  trees,  all  of 
which  were  planted  by  Mr.  Craig,  among  which  he  had  often 
walked  with  delight,  pruning-knife  in  hand,  and  enjoying 
instructive,  playful,  and  exhilarating  conversation  with  a  friend. 
Each  of  them  might  almost  be  looked  on  as  an  old  acquaint- 
ance. .  .  . 

"  The  parish  church  is  situated  about  a  mile  out  of  town,  at 
the  lower  end  of  Loch  Fad.  .  .  .  The  road  that  conducts  to  it 
from  the  town  resembles  an  avenue,  a  row  of  elegant  trees 
lining  it  all  the  way.  Arrangements  had  been  made  for  con- 
ducting worship,  on  the  first  Sabbath  after  Mr.  Craig's  return, 
in  the  Gaelic  Church.  Its  accommodation  was  small,  but  it 
was  not  known  to  what  extent  the  congregation  might  assemble 
round  their  minister  on  this  occasion.  It  was  known  that  at 
least  a  few  decided  and  faithful  witnesses  would  be  found,  true 
to  their  principles  and  true  to  their  friend.  Sabbath,  4th  June, 
was  a  calm  and  lovely  day.  The  sun  shone  bright  and  clear. 
The  air  was  balmy  and  pure.  Scarcely  a  breath  of  wind  was 
felt,  or  the  slightest  rustling  of  the  foliage  observable.  The  bay 
was  still  and  peaceful  as  a  lake.  .  .  . 

"  As  he  was  wont,  Mr.  Craig  left  the  manse  about  half-an- 
hour  before  the  time  of  beginning  public  worship.  It  is  scarcely 
possible  for  any  one  who  has  not  passed  through  a  similar 
experience  and  mental  state  to  enter  into  the  feelings  of  a 
minister's  heart  on  such  an  occasion  as  this.  He  has  left  for 
God's  and  conscience'  sake  the  place  w*herein  he  has  proclaimed 
for  years  the  grand  doctrines  of  salvation  to  a  large  and  affec- 
tionate congregation.  He  has  cast  himself  on  the  care  of  a 
gracious  and  loving  Providence,  not  knowing  what  shall  befall 
him.  Principles  are  at  stake,  a  testimony  for  which  is  to  be 
lifted  up,  and  in  the  defence  of  which,  for  the  Lord's  sake  and 
their  own,  he  would  be  joined,  if  possible,  by  those  whose 
happiness  is  dear  to  him  as  his  own  soul.     The  hour  of  trial  is 


120  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 

come.  He  may  have  his  misgivings.  Who  are  the  faithful 
ones  ?  How  many  "will  be  on  the  Lord's  side  ?  Like*Eli  of 
old,  trembling  for  the  ark,  his  heart  trembles  for  the  honour  of 
his  Lord.  If  that  be  evidently  safe,  all  selfish  considerations 
entirely  laid  aside,  he  is  happy  and  glad.  Some  such  emotion 
as  this  may  have  passed  through  his  mind  on  the  present 
occasion. 

*'  For  many  years  past,  a  long  continuous  stream  of  men  and 
women  and  children  was  to  be  seen  each  Sabbath  morning 
Avending  their  way  solemnly  and  thoughtfully  along  the  road, 
literally  as  in  the  case  of  Israel,  •  going  up  to  give  thanks  unto 
the  Lord.'  The  minister  walks  down  the  avenue  from  the 
manse,  and  goes  out  upon  the  highway.  Not  a  creature  is  to  be 
seen.  A  single  remark  is  made  to  his  friend  accompanying 
him,  and  then  he  is  silent.  Passing  onward,  he  reaches  the 
High  Street,  and  changing  his  usual  route — formerly  to  the  left 
— he  turns  down  to  the  right.  A  solemn  silence  reigns.  Not 
a  human  being  has  yet  been  seen.  Into  what  channel  has  the 
usual  stream  been  directed  ?  '  There  are  to  be  few  in  church 
to-day — the  next  corner  will  disclose  something  surely,'  and 
again  all  is  silence.  Not  a  word  is  spoken.  The  mental 
excitement  is  intense.  Curiosity  is  fully  awakened.  Hope  has 
been  wound  up  to  the  highest  pitch.  The  given  spot  is  reached, 
and  the  discovery  is  now  to  be  made.  He  turns  oflF  to  the  left, 
and  at  riuht  ano-les  to  the  High  Street.  Now  a  cheering  sioht 
greets  the  eye  and  fills  the  heart  with  devoutest  gratitude  to 
God.  A  dense  multitude  crowds  round  the  door  of  the  Gaelic 
Church,  vainly  expecting  admittance  to  what  was  already  a 
packed  house.  The  lobbies,  the  passages,  the  pulpit  stairs,  all 
are  filled.  Every  inch  of  standing  room  is  occupied.  His 
former  beadle,  John  Macdonald,  is  waiting  to  attend  him  as 
usual.  The  greater  number  of  his  attached  elders  surround 
him  as  usual.  His  congregation,  too,  is  there  much  as  usual. 
With  great  difficulty,  from  the  density  of  the  crowd,  the  pulpit 
is  reached.  After  praise,  prayer,  and  the  reading  of  the  Word, 
in  all  which  exercises  his  own  spirit  was  deeply  moved,  he  dis- 
coursed with  remarkable  unction  and  power  to  the  joy  and 
edification  of  his  people,  from  Psalm  cxxvi.  3 :  '  The  Lord  hath 


FIRST  SERVICE  IN  THE  FREE  CHURCH  CONGREGATION,        121 

done  great  things  for  us,  whereof  we  are  glad.'  This  was 
indeed  a  day  never  to  be  forgotten.  There  was  not  a  little  of 
the  Spirit's  presence  and  the  Spirit's  power,  and  thus  began 
his  ministry  in  the  Free  Church  of  Scotland,"  * 

In  connection  with  the  services  of  that  day,  there  occurred  in 
one  of  the  northern  parishes  a  remarkable  interposition  of 
Providence,  which  must  have  made  a  deep  impression  on  the 
surrounding  population, 

"  At  Rosehall,  Sutherlandshire,  the  Established  Church  fell  in 
on  the  first  Sabbath  after  it  had  been  vacated  by  the  congrega- 
tion. The  whole  area  and  pulpit  were  covered  with  slates, 
stones,  and  rubbish,  which  must  have  occasioned  much  loss 
of  life  if  the  congregation  had  been  assembled,  the  church  having 
fallen  during  the  hours  of  the  usual  Sabbath  service."  •!- 

It  was  one  of  those  incidents  which  might  not  unnaturally 
have  been  viewed  as  ominous  of  evil,  and  interpreted  by  some 
to  the  disadvantage  of  the  Established  Church.  But  apart  from 
all  such  views,  the  people  had  great  reason  for  thankfulness  to 
God  on  account  of  that  providential  care  which  had  permitted 
them  to  worship  in  safety  in  their  parish  church  up  to  the  time 
when,  under  a  sense  of  duty,  they  had  been  compelled  to 
assemble  elsewhere.  Such  an  event  in  the  history  of  the  parish 
could  not  fail  to  leave  a  deep  impression  behind  it. 

*  Memorials  of  the  Eev.  R.  Craig,  pp.  216-220. 
t  Parker  Mss.,  Pres.  of  Dornoch. 


122  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 


XIII.  The  Peeaching  of  Churches  Vacant. 

After  the  removal  of  a  minister  by  death  or  otherwise,  the 
custom  in  Scotland  is,  that  a  member  of  Presbytery  is  sent  on 
an  early  Sabbath  to  preach  the  church  vacant,  as  it  is  termed — 
that  is,  to  read  at  the  close  of  the  usual  service  a  formal  docu- 
ment announcing  the  vacancy.  At  the  Disruption  there  was, 
of  course,  much  of  this  kind  of  work  to  be  done,  and,  not 
unfrequently,  it  was  carried  out  under  somewhat  remarkable 
circumstances. 

The  difficulty  in  some  cases  was  to  get  together  an  audience 
sufficient  to  witness  the  ceremony.  At  Langton,  in  Berwick- 
shire, when  Dr.  Brown  left,  the  member  of  Presbytery  who 
came  to  preach,  found  it  impossible  to  get  a  single  parishioner 
to  listen  to  him,  and  it  was  believed  that  he  had  to  return  with- 
out holding  any  service,  or  even  reading  the  intimation  at  the 
church.  What  made  the  matter  more  noticeable  was  the  cii-- 
cumstance,  that  a  proclamation  of  banns  had  to  be  made  that 
day,  and  the  session-clerk  found  that  no  witnesses  could  be  got 
to  go  near  the  church  till  the  people  had  made  sure  that  the 
representative  of  the  Presbytery  had  fairly  left  the  village,  and 
was  well  on  his  way  home. 

At  Bolton,  in  East-Lothian,  when  the  day  came,  Mr.  Aber- 
nethy  was  on  his  deathbed.  The  Presbytery  had  selected  for 
the  work  one  who  formerly  had  professed  non-intrusion  prin- 
ciples. He  "put  the  horse  into  the  stable,  and  went  to  the 
minister's  room  to  announce  his  mission.  He  then  proceeded 
to  the  church,  but  the  bell-man  and  precentor  were  absent,  and 
not  one  individual  appeared.  In  this  extremity,  he  invited  the 
hinds  of  a  neighbouring  farmer  to  be  witnesses  that  the  church 
was  declared  vacant,  but  they  refused  to  come.     He  then  insti- 


THE  PEEACHING  OF  CHURCHES  VACANT.  123 

tuted  a  search  in  the  village,  and  at  length  lighted  upon  two  old 
men,  whom  he  invited  to  '  come  this  way,'  who  did  not  know 
what  his  purpose  was.  Taking  his  stand  in  front  of  the  church, 
the  rev.  gentleman  prayed,  and  before  proceeding  to  read  his 
document,  said,  '  Stop,  I  see  a  dressed  man  coming,  perhaps  he 
intends  to  hear  sermon.'  The  dressed  man,  however,  passed  on, 
and  the  rev.  gentleman  read  his  paper.  ...  In  this  case  the 
parishioners  have  anticipated  the  Presbytery  by  saving  them  the 
trouble  of  declaring  the  church  vacant."  * 

Throughout  the  North  of  Scotland  there  was  much  reluctance 
to  engage  in  this  work.  It  is  believed,  indeed,  that  in  some 
cases  it  was  never  done,  and  in  others,  it  was  only  after  long 
delay.  In  the  island  of  Lewis,  it  was  the  3rd  of  September 
before  a  beginning  was  made  by  preaching  vacant  the  church  of 
Lochs.  The  minister  of  Stornoway,  who  was  sent  to  officiate, 
had  first  himself  to  perform  the  office  of  beadle,  and  then  con- 
duct the  service  in  presence  of  his  own  domestics — the  ground 
officer  of  Stornoway  and  his  manservant,  the  entire  audience 
having  been  brought  from  a  distance.'f 

At  Sheildaig,  the  whole  attendance  consisted  of  three,  only 
one  of  whom  was  a  parishioner.]: 

At  Poolewe,  the  delegate  of  the  Presbytery  officiated  to  an 
audience  of  one — "  his  own  gillie."  § 

At  Killearnan,  in  Ross-shire,  the  attendance  was  more  exten- 
sive, consisting  of  thirteen  strangers  and  nine  parishioners,  five 
of  whom  belonged  to  one  family.  When  the  minister  of  Avoch 
arrived  to  do  duty,  it  was  found  that  there  was  no  bell-rope, 
but  a  beam  was  procured,  and  with  it  the  minister's  man  was 
"forked  up  "  till  his  hand  reached  the  residue  of  the  rope,  when 
the  bell  was  rung,  and  the  service  went  on.** 

At  Skirling, -}"f-  near  Biggar,  intimation  had  courteously  been 
sent  that  service  would  be  held  at  four  o'clock,  on  Sabbath, 
2nd  July.  In  this  way,  "  any  of  the  parishioners  who  were  at 
all  anxious  to  be  present  had  ample  opportunity,  as  the  Free 
Church  service  was  over  by  two.     Shortly  after  four  o'clock  the 

*  Witness,  21st  June,  1843.  t  Ibid.  20th  September,  1843. 

X  Ihid.  26th  August.  §  Ibid. 

**  Ibid.  19th  July.  +t  Ibid.  5th  July,  1843. 


124  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

Presbyterial  delegate  drove  into  the  village,  attended  by  his 
man,  and  from  the  turn  out  of  the  villagers  at  their  doors,  there 
was,  no  doubt,  good  reason  to  expect  a  well-filled  church.  The 
rev.  gentleman  alighted  and  took  a  turn  back  and  forward  on 
the  green,  expecting  every  moment  to  hear  the  bell  summon 
the  villagers  to  church  ;  but  the  bell  maintained  an  obstinate 
silence,  and  the  people  doggedly  kept  their  places  at  their  doors, 
and  as  he  was  unable  to  account  for  this  anomalous  conduct,  he 
had  recourse  to  the  schoolmaster.  'Where's  the  beadle?'  was  at 
once  asked.  '  Oh  !  there's  no  beadle,'  was  the  reply.  *  Where's 
the  precentor,  then  ? '  *  Oh  !  there's  no  precentor  neither.'  This 
was  certainly  very  embarrassing  ;  but  the  happy  thought  im- 
mediately struck  the  rev.  gentleman  that  a  precentor  might  be 
got  among  the  congregation  after  they  were  met,  and  his  own 
man  might  perform  the  important  functions  of  beadle  for  a  day. 
So  Sandy  got  the  Bible  and  the  keys,  and  repaired  to  the  church 
to  open  the  pews  and  ring  the  bell,  and  the  minister  foUow^ed. 
Soon  after  he  entered,  the  bell  was  seen  by  the  watchful 
villagers  to  commence  swinging  with  great  vehemence.  *  Come 
and  see  how  the  bell's  gawin,'  was  the  general  cry  ;  but  the  bell 
had  just  uttered  five  tolls,  when,  as  if  questioning  Sandy's  right 
to  handle  her  so  roughly,  she  suddenly  and  simultaneously 
became  mute  and  motionless,  without  assigning  reasons. 
Several  vigorous  jerks  were  then  observed,  but  they  made  no 
impression  on  the  bell ;  there  it  stood,  and  there  it  still  remains 
perched  on  the  top  of  the  vestry,  with  its  mouth  turned  up- 
wards, and  there  it  may  remain  till  the  residuary  Presbytery 
appoint  a  committee  to  deal  with  it,  if  haply  it  may  he  brought 
round.  What  passed  within  the  church  is  known  to  no  human 
being  but  the  minister  and  Sandy.  The  service,  if  any,  could 
not  have  been  very  long,  for,  after  about  seven  minutes,  they  were 
both  seen  to  issue  from  the  church  in  great  haste.  Sandy  did 
not  appear  to  relish  the  duties  he  had  so  lately  undertaken,  for, 
declaring  he  '  didna  like  the  job  ava,'  he  left  the  Bible  to  be 
lifted  and  the  doors  to  be  locked  by  any  individual  who  chose 
to  install  himself  into  the  office.  *  We  take  you  to  witness,' 
said  the  minister  to  some  of  the  parishioners  as  he  passed,  'that 
we  rung  the  bell  and  preached  the  church  vacant.'     '  We  a' 


THE  PREACHING  OF  CHURCHES  VACANT.  125 

witnessed  the  ringing  o'  the  bell,'  was  the  reply,  '  but  what  was 
done  in  the  kirk  naue  but  your  twa  sel's  can  tell.' " 

Sometimes  untoward  incidents  occurred,  and  attracted  notice. 
At  Watten,  Caithness,  "  the  congregation  adhered  to  the  Free 
Church,  and  cheerfully  followed  their  minister  to  worship  in 
the  fields ;  only  two  or  three  persons  remained  behind.  .  .  . 
The  minister  who  was  appointed  to  intimate  the  vacancy  was 
afraid  he  might  not  have  the  fragment  of  a  flock  to  be  hearers 
and  witnesses  on  the  occasion.  A  man  was  despatched  on 
horseback  to  summon  a  few  individuals,  and  urge  them  to  be 
present  in  Watten  Church  on  the  Sabbath.  This  man's  horse, 
on  his  homeward  ride,  fell;  and,  in  consequence  of  the  fall,  died. 
A  cartful  of  people  were  gathered  in  obedience  to  the  above 
summons,  and  were  proceeding  to  the  church,  but  the  horse 
also  stumbled  and  fell,  and  did  not  long  survive."  * 

Hugh  Miller  was  in  the  North  when  the  vacancy  was  declared 
at  Eesolis,  and  writes,  18th  July  : — "  Mr.  Sage  was  preached 
out  on  Sunday  last,  and,  by  dint  of  superhuman  exertion  among 
all  the  lairds,  a  congregation  of  thirty  were  brought  together  to 
see  that  he  was  ;  .  .  .  and  of  the  thirty,  two  whole  individuals,  a 
man  and  his  wife,  were  stated  hearers  in  the  parish  church. 
There  could  be  found  no  one  to  ring  the  bell,  and  no  one  to  be 
precentor,  though  twenty  shillings  were  offered  as  remuneration  ; 
and  a  man  and  gig  had  to  be  sent  rattling  to  Cromarty  an  hour 
ere  service  began,  to  procure  both  out  of  M'Kenzie's  congrega- 
tion. The  story  goes,  that  with  the  first  tug  the  bellman  gave, 
a  swarm  of  angry  bees  came  down  about  his  ears  with  wrathful 
fizz,  and  that,  to  avoid  their  stings,  he  had  to  quit  his  hold  and 
show  them  a  clean  pair  of  heels.  The  Moderates  are  in  a 
perilous  state,  when  every  untoward  incident  that  occurs  is 
regarded  as  an  omen,  and  interpreted  to  their  disadvantage." -f- 

It  is  not  to  be  supposed  that  in  all  cases  it  was  their  adher- 
ence to  the  Free  Church  which  led  the  people  to  absent  them- 
selves on  these  occasions.  Even  those  who  meant  to  adhere  to 
the  Establishment  had  in  some  instances  so  much  of  personal 
respect  and  regard  for  the  outed  minister,  that  they  felt  little 
inclination  to  witness  the  final  act  by  which  the  last  tie  was 
*  Parker  Mss.,  Eev.  A.  Giinn.  +  Life,  vol.  ii.  375. 


126  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

formally  severed.  At  the  same  time  there  can  be  no  doubt  that  the 
specimens  which  we  have  given. from  widely  separated  districts 
of  Scotland,  represent  truly  the  feelings  which  to  a  large  extent 
pervaded  the-  country,  more  especially  in  the  North.  For  years 
the  Moderate  party,  while  refusing  to  abate  their  policy,  had 
been  calling  aloud  for  peace ;  and  in  many  a  parish,  while 
declaring  the"  vacancy,  it  might  well  have  seemed  as  if  they  had 
got  their  wish  in  the  old  Roman  fashion — Solitudinem  faciunt, 
pacem  appellant. 


THE   LICENSED   PEEACHEES.  127 


XIV.  The  Licensed  Peeachees. 

One  fact  of  great  importance  was  the  adherence  to  the  cause 
of  a  numerous  body  of  students  and  probationers.  Already,  in 
1840,  a  memorial  had  been  presented  to  the  General  Assembly 
by  107  students  of  divinity,  intimating  their  resolution  to 
maintain  the  principles  for  which  the  Church  was  contending. 
When  the  Convocation  of  November,  ]  842,  drew  near,  a  still 
more  decided  step  was  taken  by  a  large  body  of  probationers. 
It  was  well  known  that  if  the  threatened  Disruption  took  place, 
many  parishes  throughout  Scotland  would  be  left  vacant,  and 
the  licensed  preachers  of  the  Church  might  well  have  looked 
forward  to  obtaining  positions  not  only  of  comfort,  but  of 
influence.  Unaffected  by  such  considerations,  a  numerous  band 
of  young  men  resolved  to  cast  in  their  lot  with  the  outgoing 
ministers. 

The  Rev.  W.  Grant,  soon  afterwards  settled  at  Ayr,  narrates 
the  rise  of  this  movement.  "  The  origin  of  the  movement  was 
as  follows : — The  Convocation  of  ministers  having  been  sum- 
moned, I  was  strongly  impressed  by  the  conviction  that  the 
probationers  who  sympathised  with  the  Evangelical  party  should 
be  invited  to  meet  to  consider  the  propriety  of  issuing  a  public 
and  united  declaration  of  their  approval  of  the  principles  con- 
tended for,  and  of  their  determination  to  adhere  to  those  who 
maintained  them. 

"Being  at  that  time  assistant  to  Rev.  Dr.  Thomas  Brown, 
of  St,  John's,  Glasgow,  I  had  occasion  to  walk  home  from 
church  (I  think  after  sermon  on  the  Monday  after  the  com- 
munion) with  the  Rev.  Dr.  Patrick  M'Farlan,  of  Greenock.  I 
availed  myself  of  the  opportunity  to  ask  his  opinion  of  my  idea. 
I  well  remember  the  warm  manner  in  which  he  gave  it  his 


128  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 

hearty  approval,  encouraging  me  to  proceed.  His  son,  then 
his  assistant,  has  often  afterwards  assured  me,  that  nothttog  had 
more  encouraged  his  father  to  face  the  difficulties  of  those  da5^s 
than  the  helpful  and  hearty  spirit  with  which  so  large  a  body 
of  probationers  entered  into  this  movement. 

"  Encouraged  by  Dr.  M'Farlan's  kind  words,  I  wrote  to  my 
dear  friend/ John  MTarlan,  to  come  and  consult  with  me  in 
regard  to  the  matter.  .  .  .  Having  met  and  formed  our  plan  of 
procedure,  we  invited  the  only  probationers  we  knew  of  in  the 
neighbourhood  who  sympathised  with  us  to  join  in  calling  a 
meeting  of  probationers  to  be  held  in  Glasgow.  These  were 
Eric  Eindlater,  now  Free  Church  minister  at  Lochearnhead, 
Andrew  Cunningham,  now  Eree  Church  minister  at  Eccles, 
and  Eev.  James  Porteous,  now  minister  of  Eree  Church  at 
Ballantrae.  ...  It  is  important  to  observe  that  this  was  the 
origin  of  the  movement  of  the  probationers,  inasmuch  as  it 
shows  that  this  movement  was  their  spontaneous  act.  It  was 
not  at  the  call  nor  by  the  suggestion  of  ministers  that  it  was 
begun ;  and,  as  Dr.  Chalmers'  letter  ...  in  the  minute-book 
proves,  the  movement  was  persisted  in  although  cold  water  was 
thrown  on  it  by  some  of  the  ministers  of  the  Evangelical  party, 
and  much  dissuasion  and  cajolery  was  employed  by  many 
ministers  who  then  belonged  to  that  party,  but  who  at  last 
stayed  in.  Though  Mr.  M'Earlan  and  I  only  knew  of  three 
probationers  already  named  as  sympathising  with  our  views, 
yet  by  consultation  with  them,  and  with  others  whom  they  knew, 
our  list  speedily  began  to  increase.  Eesponding  to  our  first 
circular,  28  probationers  assembled  in  Glasgow  to  our  first 
general  meeting,  and  19,  who  could  not  attend,  sent  in  letters 
approving  of  the  proposal  to  call  a  convocation  of  probationers. 
At  the  convocation  of  probationers  in  Edinburgh  on  14th 
December,  1842,  our  numbers  had  increased  to  between  70  and 
80.  And  192  gave  in  their  names  to  the  first  General  Assembly 
of  the  Free  Church.  .  .  . 

"  I  remember  that  we  then  estimated  that  there  were  about 
500  probationers  who  held  licenses  in  the  Established  Church. 
Many  of  these  had  become  teachers  or  farmers,  or  were  em- 
ployed in  other  secular  callings.     Besides,  our  difficulty  was  to 


THE  LICENSED  PEEACHEKS.  129 

ascertain  who  were  likely  to  sympathise  with  us.  I  think  we 
must  have  corresponded  with  considerably  above  200  proba- 
tioners. 

"  I  wish  I  could  have  gone  over  the  names,  .  .  .  marking  their 
subsequent  history  or  steadfastness.  This  I  have  not  leisure  to 
attempt,  but  many  of  their  names  are  now  well  known  as 
holding,  or  as  having  held,  prominent  places  in  the  Free  Church. 
Some  have  fallen  away  from  their  profession,  but  most  of  them 
have  laboured  faithfully  amid  the  quiet  of  their  own  congrega- 
tions. I  can  unhesitatingly  say  that,  with  one  exception,  I 
never  heard  any  of  them  express  regret  for  the  step  they  then 
took."* 

The  meeting  of  Convocation  on  the  evening  of  23rd  Novem- 
ber, at  which  the  preachers  were  received,  was  one  of  the  most 
interesting  diets  of  that  Assembly.  Complete  unanimity  had 
just  been  reached  in  regard  to  the  terms  of  the  address  to  be 
sent  to  Government  along  with  the  resolutions.  Men  were 
rejoicing  in  the  fact  that  the  last  trace  of  diversity  of  opinion 
had  disappeared,  when  the  probationers  were  introduced.  They 
were  represented  by  a  deputation  consisting  of  Mr.  Grant,  Mr. 
John  M'Farlan  (now  of  Greenock),  Mr.  Islay  Burns  (after- 
wards Professor),  Mr.  Patrick  Muirhead  (now  of  Kippen),  Mr 
WiUiara  Makellar  (afterwards  of  Pencaitland),  and  others. 
After  a  short  address  from  Mr.  Grant,  stating  the  substance 
of  the  memorial  which  they  had  come  to  present,  Mr.  M'Cheyne 
oflFered  up  the  prayer  which  made  so  deep  an  impression  on 
the  House.  In  name  of  the  Convocation,  Dr.  M'Farlan,  of 
Greenock,  gave  a  warm  welcome  to  the  preachers.  Dr.  Cun- 
ningham also  spoke,  and  congratulated  them  on  the  honest  and 
manly  course  which  they  had  taken,  and  assured  them  that 
no  eflfort  would  be  spared  in  order  to  provide  opportunities  of 
usefulness.  He  referred  with  much  interest  to  the  fact  that 
Dr.  M'Farlan,  who  had  himself  done  so  much,  and  was  ready 
to  sacrifice  so  much  for  the  principles  of  the  Church,  had  now 
a  son  standing  in  the  front  rank  of  the  rising  generation. 

During  the  following  month  (l-ith  December)  a  general 
meeting  of  the  preachers  was  held  in  Edinburgh,  and  passed 

*  Narrative  by  Rev.  W.  Grant,  of  Ayr,  Dis.  Mss. 

K 


130  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISKUPTION. 

still  more  decided  resolutions.  ,  How  cordially  the  movement 
was  welcomed  may  be  seen  from  a  communication  writ^^en  by 
Dr.  Candlish,  in  name  of  the  committee  of  Convocation,  and 
addressed  on  their  behalf  to  the  meeting  of  probationers.  "  "We 
heartily  welcome  the  accession  to  our  number  of  so  many 
ardent  and  youthful  spirits  ready  to  make  common  cause  and 
cast  in  their  lot  with  us  in  this  time  of  trial ;  and  as  we  have 
already  taken  encouragement  from  the  reflection  that,  among 
the  adherents  to  the  resolutions  which  have  been  adopted,  we 
may  reckon  so  large  a  proportion  of  aged  and  venerable  ser- 
vants of  Christ,  whose  lengthened  ministry  has  been  that  of 
men  willing  to  spend  and  be  spent  for  Christ's  sake  and  the 
Gospel's,  and  who  now,  drawing  near  the  close  of  life,  have  not 
hesitated  to  put  their  earthly  all  in  peril  for  the  great  love  they 
bear  to  His  kingly  throne  and  His  free  Church ;  so,  on  the 
other  hand,  we  cannot  but  be  cheered  by  the  prospect  of  so 
goodly  a  company  of  the  youth  of  our  Zion — worthy,  as  we 
trust,  to  be  the  children  of  these  men  of  God  in  spirit,  as  some 
of  you  are  in  the  flesh — coming  forward  in  the  fresh  prime  and 
enthusiasm  of  opening  manhood  to  take  up  in  active  service  the 
testimony  to  which  these  fathers  have  consecrated  the  prayers 
and  patience  of  their  declining  years.  .  .  . 

"  We  are  well  aware  of  the  sacrifices  which  many  of  you  may 
be  called  to  make  of  worldly  prospects  of  advancement  which 
hitherto  you  have  been  warranted  in  cherishing,  and  remember- 
ing well  our  own  sentiments  and  feelings  when  we  were  in  your 
position,  and  being  fully  aware  of  the  exaggerated  value  which 
hope  is  ever  apt  to  set  on  untried  good,  we  can  well  imagine 
that  it  may  be  in  some  respects  more  difficult  and  painful  for 
you  to  forego  those  rewards  of  honourable  ambition  which  the 
influential  position  of  an  Establishment  holds  out,  than  for  us 
to  relinquish  them  after  having  proved  what  is  in  them.  In  all 
these  elements  which  must  mingle  with  your  deliberations,  we 
assure  you  of  our  earnest  sympathy ;  and  we  cannot  but  regard 
it  as  a  noble  and  generous  spectacle,  fitted  to  tell  on  an  age 
incredulous  of  the  reality  of  great  principle,  if  a  considerable 
body  of  the  pious  and  devoted  candidates  for  the  ministry 
among  us,  who  otherwise  might  have  commanded  the  highest 


THE  LICENSED  PREACHERS.  131 

prizes  of  their  profession,  and  might  have  found,  perhaps,  some 
plausible  plea  to  justify  their  silence  at  least,  if  not  their  sub- 
mission, shall  be  found  fearlessly  speaking  out  on  the  side  of 
truth  and  integrity — willing  to  go  forth  unto  Christ  without 
the  camp,  bearing  His  reproach."* 

When  the  Assembly  came,  it  was  found  that  192  probationers 
gave  in  their  names  as  having  resolved  to  take  part  in  the 
Church's  trials  and  toils  ;  and  it  soon  appeared  that  the  devoted 
band  were  all  too  few  for  the  many  fields  of  usefulness  which 
the  adherence  of  the  people  opened  up  in  all  districts  of  the 
country. 

*  Witness  Newspaper,  28th  December,  1842. 


132  ANNALS  OP  THE  DISRUPTION. 


XV.  Leaving  the  Manse. 

It  is  remarkable  that  so  many  of  the  ministers  have  said 
nothing  as  to  the  actual  removal.  Only  they  who  have  known 
the  quiet  happiness  of  these  manses  can  tell  what  sadness  there 
was  in  parting  from  the  old  home,  and  the  pain  of  recalling  that 
time  of  trial  may  have  been  one  reason  why  the  circumstances 
have  been  passed  over  in  so  many  of  the  narratives.  In  other 
cases,  however,  such  feelings  have  evidently  been  lost  in  the  far 
higher  thoughts  which  filled  the  mind.  "  Is  it  not  difficult  to 
give  up  all  this  ? "  the  writer  asked  Mr.  Mellis,  of  TeaKng,  as  we 
were  walking  round  his  garden,  three  weeks  before  the  Disruption. 
The  spring  flowers  were  bursting  into  beauty,  the  manse  and  its 
surroundings  were  bright  in  the  morning  sun.  "No,"  he 
replied  ;  "  I  am  thankful  to  feel  that  I  have  something  to  give 
up  for  Christ." 

In  the  same  frame  of  mind.  Dr.  Duncan,  of  Euthwell,  "  took 
joyfully  "  the  actual  leaving  of  his  manse.  "  On  the  previous 
evening  his  eldest  son  and  two  little  grandsons  had  arrived  to 
look  again  at  the  birthplace  of  one  and  a  scene  which  he  wished 
the  other  two  to  remember  if  they  should  live  to  be  old.  On 
the  next  day  we  had  agreed  to  meet  and  eat  our  last  mid-day 
meal  in  the  dear  old  parlour,  which  for  forty-three  years  had 
witnessed  much  hospitality  and  kindness.  But  Dr.  Duncan  and 
his  son  had  gone  to  look  after  the  workmen  at  the  rising  church. 
Noon,  one,  two,  three  o'clock  passed.  We  were  in  despair  it 
would  be  night.  The  people  who  were  working  suggested  the 
idea  that  he  could  not  bear  to  take  leave  of  the  house,  and  did 
not  mean  to  return.  We  dined  without  them,  and  the  last  chair 
was  placed  on  the  cart,  when,  clieerful  and  hungry,  they 
returned  to  the  door  of  the  dismantled  dwelling.     A  messaije 


LEAVING  THE  MANSE.  133 

from  a  sick  man  had  drawn  them  to  a  distance  of  eight  miles, 
and,  little  occupied  about  where  or  how  he  should  be  lodged,  he 
had  pursued  his  ministerial  work  as  if  no  removal  had  been  in 
the  way.  Yet  he  was  bent  on  making  the  best  of  our  discom- 
forts. Next  morning,  when  he  found  rain  pouring  into  our 
new  pantry,  he  returned  quietly  to  the  home  of  his  early  happi-  ;p^' 
ness  to  bring  a  bit  of  lead,  which  he  had  observed  in  the  rubbish 
of  the  garret,  that  with  it  he  might  stop  the  hole  that  was 
adding  to  our  discomfort.  We  smiled  at  the  incident,  as  prov- 
ing how  far  they  were  mistaken  who  thought  he  indulged  in 
anything  like  sentimental  sorrow  for  what  he  had  resigned."  * 
[Dr.  Duncan  was  at  that  time  nearly  seventy  years  of  age.] 

On  the  part  of  many  besides  Dr.  Duncan  there  is  little 
disposition  to  make  much  of  these  trials.  Mr.  Thomson,  of 
Muckhart,  dismisses  them  as  briefly  as  possible.  His  "  experi- 
ence in  connection  with  the  change  has  not  been  one  of  special 
trial.  The  last  sermon  to  my  old  flock,  the  roup,  and  the 
flitting,  no  doubt,  were  trying  enough,  but  these  were  trials 
common  to  nearly  all."  -f-  So,  also,  at  "Walls,  in  Shetland,  Mr. 
Elder  quietly  remarks  :  "  The  circumstance  of  leaving  a  comfort- 
able manse,  and  coming  to  a  cold,  damp  house,  was  a  little  trial 
to  myself  and  family,"  J  and  then  he  goes  on  to  speak  of  his 
mercies. 

Others,  who  were  not  less  willing  for  the  sacrifice,  yet  seem 
to  have  felt  more  keenly  the  breaking  of  the  local  tie.  "  After 
the  business  of  the  Assembly  was  over,"  says  Dr.  M'Lauchlan, 
"  and  the  deed  of  demission  signed,  I  returned  home,  and  per- 
haps the  greatest  pain  I  suffered  connected  with  the  Disrup- 
tion was  as  I  walked  down  from  the  coach  to  the  manse,  and 
realised  that  the  tie  between  me  and  this  place,  where  I  was 
born  and  bred,  and  which  I  had  latterly  done  much  to  beautify, 
was  now  for  ever  at  an  end.  The  pain  was  but  momentary,  but 
it  was  severe,  for  I  have  by  nature  a  strong  attachment  to 
places."  § 

"  I  write  at  the  distance  of  six  years  from  the  Disruption," 
says  Mr.  Taylor,  of  Flisk,  "and  every  time  I  look  back  I  am 

*Dis.  Mss.  xvi.  pp.  8,  9.      '  t  Ibid,  xxviii.  p.  8. 

+  Ibid,  xviii.  p.  1.  §  Ibid.  xlix.  p.  9. 


134  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISETJPTION. 

filled  with  thankfulness  to  God  for  the  part  He  led  me  to  act  at 
that  trying  time.  No  regrets  or  longings  even  for  the  tenlporali- 
ties  have  ever  disquieted  my  mind.  The  only  time  I  felt  some- 
what overcome  was  in  the  evening  of  leaving  the  manse,  when, 
having  sent  every  person  and  thing  away,  I  remained  behind, 
and  the  empty  house  resounded  to  the  departing  tread,  and  I 
turned  the.  key  on  the  outer  door,  and  my  back  upon  the  house 
and  church,  in  which  I  had  hoped  to  have  spent  years  of  useful- 
ness and  happiness,  and  as  the  shadows  of  evening  were  falling 
thickly  and  gloomily,  so  also  did  the  uncertainties  of  the  fatm-e. 
But  these  were  passing  feelings.  They  soon  gave  place  to 
brighter  feelings  when  I  considered  the  blessed  results  which 
God  speedily  brought  out  of  the  Disruption  to  this  neighbour- 
hood." * 

Family  ties,  as  might  have  been  expected,  often  gave  addi- 
tional sadness  to  the  act  of  parting.  Of  Mr.  Martin,  Bathgate, 
it  is  said:  "After  the  Assembly  of  1843,  he  returned  to  the 
manse,  in  which  nearly  twenty  of  the  most  eventful  years  of  his 
life  had  been  spent,  and  began  to  prepare  for  leaving  it.  How 
little  the  mere  spectators  of  these  manse-quittings  could  under- 
stand the  wounds  thereby  made  on  some  of  the  strongest  and 
most  homely  affections  of  our  nature.  There  was  the  study, 
where  his  soul  had  been  ripening  both  in  heavenly,  and  earthly 
knowledge,  and  there  he  had  borne  his  people  so  often  on  his 
heart  before  God  ('  If  you  knew  what  prayers  were  offered  up 
for  you  in  the  study,'  said  a  domestic  to  one  of  his  people,  '  how 
you  would  prize  the  minister ')  ;  the  garden,  where,  year  after 
year,  he  had  watched  the  growth  of  trees  planted  by  his  own  hand, 
^nd  tended  the  large  white  daisies  which  he  had  brought  from 
the  manse  garden  of  Kirkcaldy  (years  after,  when  passing  with 
him  one  bright  moonlight  night,  he  said,  '  Well,  you  may  smile, 
but  I  felt  it  hard  in  1843  to  leave  these  trees')  ;  and  the  home 
into  which  he  had  brought  the  beloved  wife  of  his  youth,  and 
which  had  become  the  home  of  his  children.  ,  .  .  The  procession 
from  the  manse  was  touching  enough.  The  elder  children  and 
furniture  had  been  sent  on  before ;  Mrs.  Martin  followed,  with 
her  fifth  boy,  William,  in  her  arms ;  and  her  husband  walked 
*  Dis.  Mss.  xxxvii.  p.  12. 


LEAVING  THE  MANSE.  135 

beside  her  with  the  large  family  Bible  under  his  arm.  '  We 
hoped  that  we  would  not  meet  any  one,'  said  Mrs.  Martin,  after- 
wards, '  as  we  could  not  have  spoken.'  They  moved  along  in 
silence  to  the  small  upper  flat  which  they  had  rented,  and 
which  was  the  only  dwelling  they  could  then  obtain.  The 
prayer  that  night  at  the  household  altar  told  of  a  soul  at  liberty, 
and  satisfied  with  God  for  a  portion."  * 

Mr.  Findlater,  of  Durness,  writes,  on  20th  July,  1843  :  "  I 
could  not  possibly  leave  the  manse  till  a  fortnight  ago,  waiting 
an  opportunity  of  conveying  my  furniture  and  part  of  my  family 
by  sea,  from  near  the  shores  of  Cape  Wrath  to  Thurso,  and  my 
wife  and  the  younger  branches  of  my  family  by  land,  being  a 
distance  of  at  least  70  miles.  Not  a  house  or  hut  could  be  got 
nearer  for  their  accommodation.  I  have  taken  a  room  in  the 
only  inn  in  the  district,  where  I  at  present  sojourn.  .  .  .  My 
feelings,  and  those  of  my  family,  on  leaving  the  manse,  after  a 
residence  of  thirty-one  years,  I  cannot  describe.  Though  pain- 
ful in  some  respects,  yet  I  trust  it  was  a  willing  sacrifice.  .  .  . 
Jehovah- Jireh  is  a  strong  tower.  .  .  .  My  wife  was  born  in  the 
manse  she  lately  left  empty,  left  two  of  our  children's  dust 
behind,  and  accompanied  by  six,  all  hitherto  unprovided  for,  to 
sojourn  among  strangers,  has  displayed  a  moral  heroism  which 
is  soothing  to  my  feelings."  •]- 

The  flitting  at  Kilsyth  is  very  simply  noticed  :  "  June  14th. — 
Returned  home  [from  the  settlement  of  his  son,  Dr.  Islay  Burns, 
at  Dundee].  Found  the  manse  vacated,  as  expected — the  re- 
moval having  been  completed  on  the  evening  preceding.  On 
passing  from  the  canal  boat,  went  into  the  manse — not  quite 
sure  how  matters  were.  Pound  emptiness.  Mrs.  Rankin,  of 
Boynbie,  and  Mrs.  Kennedy,  both  friendly,  were  there,  who 
were  much  moved  at  the  unusual  meeting.  The  family  were 
comfortably  located  in  our  hired  house,  Charles  Street — all 
well  after  the  fatigues  of  flitting.  .  .  .  Twenty-three  years  in 
the  manse  left;  in  manse  of  Dun,  eighteen  years.  Psalm  cxix.  9: 
'  I  am  a  stranger  in  the  earth  :  hide  not  thy  commandments 
from  me.'  .  .  .  Slept  sound  in  the  new  lodgings."l 

*  Memoirs,  p.  117.  t  Wityiess  Newspaper,  25th  October,  1843. 

X  Dis.  Mss.  xxix.  p.  11. 


136  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 

Mr.  Duncan,  of  Cleish,  states  :  "I  left  the  Manse  of  Cleish 
on  the  Monday  immediately  succeeding  the  General  AsSfembly, 
and  after  all  my  family  had  been  despatched  to  the  apartments 
prepared  for  .them  at  Kinross,  three  miles  off,  and  the  last  cart 
was  nearly  loaded  with  the  remaining  furniture,  I  entered  my 
dismantled  study  for  the  last  time,  and  on  looking  around  me, 
with  feelings-  which  I  shall  not  attempt  to  describe,  I  saw  one 
of  the  little  printed  tickets  which  I  was  in  the  habit  of  using 
in  the  Sabbath  School  lying  on  the  mantelpiece.  Impressed 
with  the  idea  that  the  texts  which  it  contained  might  be  charged 
with  a  message  suited  to  the  solemn  occasion,  I  lifted  it,  and 
read  the  following  verses  : — '  But  seek  ye  first  the  kingdom  of 
God  and  his  righteousness,  and  all  things  shall  be  added  unto 
you,'  Matt,  vi.  S3.  '  But  my  God  shall  supply  all  your  need 
according  to  his  riches  in  glory  by  Christ  Jesus,'  Phil,  iv,  19. 
That  ticket,  I  need  hardly  say,  I  have  carefully  preserved,  not- 
withstanding the  dingy  appearance  which,  in  consequence  of 
passing  through  so  many  hands,  it  had  come  to  bear.  The 
words  came  on  my  heart  like  a  voice  from  heaven."  * 

At  Latheron,  Mr.  Davidson  writes  :  "  The  last  load  of  fur- 
niture being  despatched,  I  deliberately  visited  every  room  in 
the  house  for  the  last  time,  with  very  solemn  feelings,  and  then 
took  my  departure — locking  the  door,  and  sending  the  key  to 
the  nearest  proprietor — never,  in  aU  probability,  to  enter  it 
again.  That  I  felt  this  to  be  a  very  trying  moment  I  have  no 
wish  to  conceal.  The  loss  of  my  stipend — which  was  the  largest 
in  the  county  (except  the  towns),  and  that  of  the  glebe,  which 
was  of  the  same  description,  and  upon  which  I  had  expended 
fully  £200  in  enclosing  and  subdividing  it  by  stone  fences,  and 
otherwise  ornamenting  it — scarcely  gave  me  a  passing  thought ; 
for  I  believed  we  should  be  provided  for,  though  by  more  limited 
means ;  and  to  this  I  felt  perfectly  willing  to  submit.  But  the 
leaving  of  the  residence  where  I  had  lived  for  so  many  years, 
and  in  which  I  had  enjoyed  so  much  comfort  and  happiness, 
mingled,  no  doubt,  with  occasional  heavy  afflictions,  did  indeed 
deeply  affect  me  at  the  time.  Still,  upon  entering  the  cottage, 
where  all  things  were  speedily  set  in  order,  I  felt  cheered  in 
♦  Dia.  Mss.  xii.  p.  2. 


LEAVING  THE  MANSE.  137 

contrasting  my  own  lot  with  tliat  of  many  of  my  less  favoured 
brethren,  who  were  far  worse  accommodated ;  and  especially 
that  of  the  Saviour  Himself,  who,  though  Creator  of  all  things, 
had  not  where  to  lay  His  head.  With  these  reflections,  we 
united  in  pouring  out  our  hearts  to  God  in  grateful  thanks- 
giving for  enabling  us  to  pass  through  this  trying  ordeal,  and 
in  committing  ourselves  to  His  fatherly  protection  for  the 
future."  * 

Another  remai'kable  case  was  that  of  Dr.  Grierson,  of  Errol : 
"  My  stipend  was  one  of  the  largest  belonging  to  a  country 
charge  ;  my  family  was  rather  numerous  ;  •  .  .  their  education 
being  not  only  unfinished,  but,  in  the  case  of  the  younger 
members,  not  advanced  beyond  its  earlier  stages  ;  while  the 
length  of  time  that  we  had  enjoyed  the  advantages  of  a  liberal 
income  ...  all  served  to  increase  the  painfulness  of  the  sacri- 
fice which,  from  a  sense  of  duty,  we  were  constrained  to  make. 
I  hope  I  shall  be  excused  when  I  add  that  the  external  amenities 
of  the  home  which  for  more  than  twenty  years  I  had  been 
seeking  to  improve,  together  with  the  richness  and  splendour  of 
tlie  extensive  landscape  of  which  it  commanded  a  view,  did 
not  give  it  so  strong  a  hold  on  my  heart  as  that  which  it 
possessed  from  being  the  birthplace  of  all  my  children — the 
scenes  of  all  their  youthful  joys  and  sorrows — and  the  house  of 
mourning,  from  which  I  had  successively  conveyed  the  mortal 
remains  of  nearly  one-half  of  their  whole  number  to  that  resting- 
place  on  which  my  eye  used  to  fall  from  Sabbath  to  Sabbath  as 
I  entered  the  house  of  God. 

"  When  the  last  cart-load  of  furniture  was  despatched,  and 
while  the  vehicle  which  was  to  convey  my  family  to  their 
new  residence  was  getting  ready,  I  went  out,  and  took  a  last 
turn  round  my  garden  walks,  and  a  farewell  gaze  on  the  scenery 
which  I  had  so  often  viewed  with  admiration  and  delight.  On 
returning,  I  went  through  every  room  and  apartment  of  the 
bouse,  as  if  to  gather  up  the  endearing  or  interesting  associa- 
tions with  which  they  were  connected.  All  was  empty  and 
desolate — the  last  fire  was  extinguished  on  the  blackened  hearth. 
The  younger  part  of  my  family  had  entered  the  vehicle,  but  my 
*Dis.  Mss.,  Latheron,  p.  3. 


138  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

partner,  waiting  to  enter  it  when  all  was  ready  to  move,  had  sat 
down  exhausted  on  the  lower  steps  of  the  stair — the  on^  seat 
then  to  be  found.  I  raised  her  up,  and  placed  her  beside  her 
children,  and-  having  locked  the  door  behind  her,  I  gave  the  key 
to  the  person  who  had  been  appointed  to  receive  it.  As  the 
road  at  first  was  somewhat  steep,  I  walked  for  some  distance, 
.  .  .  but  looked  not  back  with  any  desire  to  remain.  I  felt 
as  if  I  heard  the  words  of  the  prophet :  '  Arise  ye,  and  depart : 
for  this  is  not  your  rest,'  Micah  ii.  10."  * 

Tlie  effect  of  these  manse-flittings  in  a  district  cannot  be 
understood  without  knowing  what  manner  of  men  they  were 
who  sacrificed  their  all,  and  what  place  they  held  in  the  afiec- 
tions  of  the  people.  The  Eev.  Angus  M'Millan  was  a  native 
of  Glen  Sannox,  in  Arran,  and  working  at  his  trade  for  "self- 
support,  had  fought  his  way  through  a  regular  course  at  the 
University  of  Glasgow,  studied  divinity  in  Edinburgh,  was 
licensed  and  appointed  in  1812  to  Lochranza,  in  Arran,  a 
mission  station,  supported  by  the  Duchess  of  Hamilton,  where 
his  income,  ^yithout  house  or  glebe,  was  £84!  a-year.  There  he 
found  himself  in  the  midst  of  a  remarkable  revival,  which  spread 
over  a  large  portion  of  the  island,  and  of  which  he  afterwards 
wrote  an  account.  Of  this  movement  he  was  for  many  years 
the  centre,  and  his  usefulness  was  still  more  marked  when,  in 
1821,  at  the  urgent  entreaty  of  the  people,  he  was  presented  to 
the  parish  of  Kilmory.  From  1821  to  1843  his  ministry  was 
greatly  blessed,  and  when  the  day  of  trial  came,  he  was  found 
faithful.  The  leaving  of  the  manse  has  been  described  by  his 
early  and  attached  friend,  the  Eev.  A.  Macbride,  of  North  Bute  : — 

"  The  aged  minister,  his  locks  thin  and  silvery,  his  counte- 
nance pale  and  placid,  his  frame  frail  and  emaciated,  his  whole 
appearance  betokening  a  man  who  had  seen  length  of  service  in 
his  Master's  vineyard,  and  .  .  .  who  had  faithfully  borne  the  burden 
and  heat  of  many  an  anxious  day,  looked  on  till  room  after  room 
was  dismantled,  and  cart  after  cart  had  wound  down  by  the  side 
of  the  old  churchyard,  as  calm  and  composed  as  if  no  change 
were  taking  place  in  his  circumstances  ;  and  when  the  last  cart 
returned  to  take  himself  away,  he  asked  if  all  were  ready.  Being 
*  Dis.  Mss,  xi.  p.  8. 


LEAVING  THE  MANSE.  139 

told  it  was, '  Well,  come  in  for  a  little  ;  and  entering  the  empty 
parlour  which  for  twenty-two  years  had  been  his  sitting-room, 
his  study,  and  his  sanctuary,  he  said,  'Let  us  pray.'  The 
prayer  chiefly  consisted  of  adoration  and  praise,  but  towards 
the  conclusion  he  earnestly  implored  that  the  same  goodness 
and  mercy  which  had  hitherto  followed  them,  might  follow  them 
till  they  reached  the  house  not  made  with  hands,  eternal  in  the 
heavens.  When  engaged  in  prayer,  he  was  frequently  inter- 
rupted by  the  sobs  of  those  around  him  ;  and  once  he  was 
himself  so  overcome  that  he  had  to  pause.  When  he  finished 
prayer,  he  walked  out  of  the  house  with  Ms  usual  step,  and 
having  been  assisted  into  the  cart,  he  proceeded  to  the  little 
thatched  cottage  at  Clachaig,  which  devoted  friendship  had 
prepared  for  his  reception — a  cottage  which  he  was  soon  to 
exchange  for  a  mansion  in  his  Father's  house."  * 

Among  the  aged  fathers  of  the  Church,  there  were  some 
whose  great  anxiety  arose  from  a  fear  lest  the  hand  of  death 
should  overtake  them  in  the  old  manse,  and  so  prevent  the 
completeness  of  their  testimony  to  the  principles  of  the  Free 
Church.  There  were  three  instances  in  which  the  wish  of  their 
hearts  in  this  respect  was  denied.  One  was  Mr.  Abernethy,  of 
Bolton,  in  East  Lothian,  a  godly  minister,  "  held  in  the  greatest 
respect  by  all  the  brethren  in  the  Presbytery  and  the  people 
generally  in  the  district.  His  health  began  to  decline  in  the 
spring  of  1843,  and  it  was  soon  ascertained  that  he  was  labour- 
ing under  an  internal  malady  from  which  there  was  little  or  no 
prospect  of  recovery.  .  .  .  The  parish  church  was  preached 
vacant  a  few  Sabbaths  before  his  death,  or,  rather,  was  pro- 
nounced vacant,  for  no  audience  could  be  got  to  witness  the 
ceremony."-}-  He  died  in  the  manse,  after  severe  suffering,  on 
the  26th  July,  1843,  in  the  sixty-third  year  of  his  age. 

A  similar  case  was  that  of  Mr.  Logan,  of  Eastwood,  born  in 
1759,  a  distinguished  classical  scholar  at  the  University  of 
Glasgow,  and  presented,  at  the  instance  of  the  celebrated  Dr. 
Balfour,  to  the  parish  of  Eastwood.  He  had  proved  himself  a 
minister  eminently  learned  and  devoted  in  his  I\Iaster's  service. 
"  His  age  had  prevented  his  taking  part  in  the  struggles  of  the 

*  Parker  Mss.,  Eev.  A.  M'Millan.  +  Ibid.  Pres.  of  Haddington. 


140  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

'  Ten  Years'  Conflict,'  but  he  warmly  espoused  the  cause  of  the 
Church.  There  were  not  wanting  friends  who  endeav(tUred  to 
turn  the  aged  servant  of  the  Lord  aside  from  the  path  of  duty, 
alleging  that  it  could  not  be  expected  that,  at  his  age,  lying,  as 
he  was,  on  a  bed  of  languishing,  he  should  leave  the  house 
where  he  had  lived  so  long.  He  replied  that  he  was  simply 
obeying  his  -Master — discharging  a  plain  duty  which  love  to  his 
Lord  demanded.  In  the  spring  of  1843  a  friend  [the  Kev.  Mr. 
Gemmell,  of  Fairlie]  preached  for  him,  and  after  sermon  went 
in  to  see  him,  now  confined  entirely  to  bed,  and  began  to  speak 
with  him  on  the  perils  of  the  Church.  '  Yes,'  said  Mr.  Logan, 
*  but  I  trust  we  shall  at  all  hazards  maintain  the  spiritual  rights 
of  our  Zion.  When  Ceesar  was  crossing  the  Adriatic  in  a  small 
vessel,  the  boatman  hesitated  and  was  afraid.  Caesar  said,  "  Ne 
timeas,  Gcesarem  vehis"  (Fear  not,  you  carry  Caesar).  Mucli 
more  reason  have  we  to  say,  " Nil  timendum  Christo  diice"' 
(There  is  nothing  to  be  feared  with  Christ  for  our  leader).  The 
old  man,  in  repeating  these  words,  elevated  himself  in  bed,  and, 
having  pronounced  them  with  a  firm  voice,  immediately  sank 
back,  and  laid  his  head  upon  the  pillow,  breathless  and  ex- 
hausted with  the  effort."  "  He  died  on  the  2nd  day  of  July, 
1843,  in  the  eighty-fifth  year  of  his  age  and  the  fifty-eighth  of 
his  ministry."  * 

The  third  case  was  that  of  Dr.  Ross,  of  Lochbroom.  "  When 
the  Disruption  came,  he  was  very  earnest  as  to  sending  up  his 
signature  and  having  it  added  to  the  Deed  of  Demission,  and 
himself  enrolled  as  a  minister  of  the  Free  Church.  He  was 
anxious  also  to  follow  up  the  step  by  removing  as  soon  as  pos- 
sible from  the  old  manse.  But  what  was  to  be  done  ?  ...  To 
attempt  to  remove  him,  even  to  the  nearest  house,  would  mani- 
festly endanger  his  life.  .  .  .  God  in  His  gracious  providence 
solved  the  difficulty.  He  died  in  the  old  manse  of  Lochbroom, 
a  sufferer  from  paralysis,  on  the  21st  day  of  July,  1843,  before 
the  arrangements  which  were  begun  for  his  reception  in  another 
place  could  be  completed.  He  expired  in  the  seventy-fifth  year 
of  his  age  and  fortieth  of  his  ministry."  -f- 

Similar  interest  attaches  to  the  case  of  Mr.  Ferguson,  of 
*  Parker  Mss.,  Rev.  G.  Logan.  t  Thid.  Pres.  of  Lochbroom. 


LEAVING  THE  MANSE.  141 

Marytown,  near  Montrose.  He  had  been  minister  of  the  parish 
for  about  fifty  years,  and  was  from  the  first  an  adherent  of  the 
Evangelical  minority  in  the  Church  at  a  time  when  it  was 
weak  in  numbers.  He  cheerfully  demitted  his  civil  status  as  a 
parish  minister  at  the  Disruption.  Not  being  able,  from  age 
and  infirmity,  to  go  to  Edinburgh  to  sign  the  Deed  of  Demis- 
sion, his  signature  was  taken  in  his  own  manse  a '  few  weeks 
after  the  Disruption.  Aware  of  his  intention,  two  of  his 
copresbyters  called  upon  him,  and  urged  him  to  remain  in  the 
Establishment,  especially  pressing  his  advanced  age  and  the 
hardship  of  leaving  his  manse  at  his  period  of  life ;  that  in  his 
circumstances  none  could  reasonably  expect  this  of  him,  and 
offering  their  services  to  get  an  assistant  who  should  be  accept- 
able to  him.  "  He  told  me,"  says  his  sou,  "  that  he  replied  to 
them,  '  I  cannot  abandon  the  principles  I  have  held,  or  separate 
from  the  friends  with  whom  I  have  acted  through  life.'  The 
circumstances  of  his  death  were  these  : — The  farm-house  of  Bal- 
dovie  (the  birthplace  of  Andrew  Melville,  and  scene  of  his 
youth)  was  fitted  up  for  his  reception.  On  the  day  preceding 
his  death,  he  left  his  manse,  intending  that  evening  to  take  up 
his  abode  at  Baldovie,  after  spending  a  few  hours  at  Marytown 
farm-house,  which  is  about  half-way  between  the  manse  and 
Baldovie.  Here  he  was  taken  suddenly  ill,  and  died  next  day 
at  ten  p.m."  * 

In  connection  with  these  "  flittings "  from  the  manse  there 
occur,  as  was  natural,  various  references  to  the  minister  s  wife, 
on  whom  so  much  of  the  trial  fell.  Those  opposed  to  the 
Church  in  her  contendings  calculated  largely  on  men  giving 
way  out  of  feeHngs  of  regard  for  wife  and  children.  In  the 
last  Strathbogie  case,  pled  before  the  Court  of  Session  in 
January,  184:3,  Mr.  Hope,  the  Dean  of  Faculty — by  no  means 
given  to  the  melting  mood — grew  pathetic  as  he  appealed  to 
the  ministers  of  the  Church,  urging  them  to  have  regard  to 
"  the  imploring  looks  and  tearful  eyes  of  their  wives  and  chil- 
dren." He  little  knew  those  of  whom  he  spoke.  In  many  a 
manse,  when  the  hour  of  trial  came,  the  faith  of  the  wife  was  at 
least  as  fearless  as  that  of  the  husband.  At  Lesmahagow,  Mrs. 
*  Parker  Mss.,  Pres.  of  Brechin. 


142  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 

Par]£er  writes,  in  that  same  month  of  January :  "  So  far  as  1 
can  judge,  .  .  .  the  Church  in  her  present  struggles  i&  doing 
no  more  than  her  duty  to  her  great  Head;  and  I  trust  she  may 
be  strengthened  to  go  boldly  forward.  .  .  .  No  doubt  the  sword 
of  power  is  against  her,  and,  to  all  human  appearances,  about  to 
fall  on  her ;  but  that  is  no  reason  why  any  of  her  faithful 
ministers  should  swerve  from  the  principles  for  which  their 
fathers  suffered.  ...  I  trust  you  will  give  me  credit  for  being 
sincere  in  what  I  say.  .  .  .  No  one  values  more  than  I  do  my 
present  comforts,  and  few  are  less  qualified  for  making  sacri- 
fices and  enduring  hardships,  and  sometimes  my  very  heart  is 
sore  when  I  look  at  my  dear  children ;  but  I  trust  that  God  in 
His  providence  may  prepare  a  place  for  us — a  sphere  of  duty 
where  my  dearest  husband  may  exercise  those  gifts  with  which 
God  has  endowed  him."  Thus  wrote  the  wife  and  mother, 
when  the  prospect  was  looking  dark ;  and  then,  two  months 
later,  she  returns  to  it :  "  Every  day  that  passes  only  shows 
more  clearly  the  necessity  there  is  for  leaving  the  Establish- 
ment. Oh !  I  hope  it  may  issue  in  the  purification  of  the 
Church,  and  the  enlargement  of  our  Kedeemer's  kingdom.  We 
cannot  look  forward  to  be  here  now  (I  mean,  in  this  house) 
much  beyond  May,  and  we  are  looking  out  for  another.  .  .  . 
I  am  expecting  my  aunt  and  sister  next  week,  to  take  farewell 
of  the  manse."  * 

Dr.  N.  Paterson,  of  Glasgow,  mentions  an  anecdote  connected 
with  the  Convocation  :  "  I  was  much  strengthened  by  a  conver- 
sation with  an  old  college  acquaintance,  and  now  a  faithful 
minister  in  the  city  of  Aberdeen.  "We  had  spoken  of  the  num- 
ber of  our  children,  and  with  respect  to  his  own  family  he  said 
— '  If  we  are  driven  out  we  shall  be  as  poor  as  any  wanderers 
on  nature's  common,  but  I  had  a  letter  from  my  wife  this 
morning,  and  she  exhorts  me  to  stand  true.  Give  up  all  for 
Christ,  and  your  peace  shall  flow  like  a  river.' "  f 

In  the  manse  of  Farr,  when  the  prospects  of  the  Church 
were  getting  dark,  Mrs.  Mackenzie  lay  on  her  dying  bed,  "with 
seven  children  all  unprovided  for."     "  About  nineteen  months 

*  Dis.  Mss.  xxxi.  pp.  7-9. 
t   Witness  Newspaper,  7th  December,  1842. 


LEAVING  THE  MANSE.  143 

before  the  Disruption,"  her  husband  states,  "it  pleased  the  Lord 
to  remove  my  wife  by  death,  depriving  me  of  a  most  affectionate 
and  dutiful  partner,  and  our  children  of  one  of  the  best  of 
mothers.  I  trust  it  will  not  be  considered  irrelevant  to  mention 
here  in  regard  to  my  wife  that  she  felt  a  deep  interest  in  the 
great  Church  question.  That  day  on  the  evening  of  which  she 
died,  we  had  a  prayer  meeting  in  reference  to  the  proceedings 
in  the  West  Church  of  Edinburgh  in  August,  1841,  and  although 
exceedingly  weak  and  much  pained,  yet  quite  collected,  she 
insisted  on  my  attending  the  meeting  in  church,  and  not  to  leave 
it  imtil  we  concluded,  unless  she  sent  for  me.  But  although 
the  separation,  after  a  union  of  twenty-five  years,  was  to  me  and 
the  children  most  painful,  yet,  when  the  Disruption  came,  I  saw 
much  of  the  Lord's  goodness  toward  my  partner,  in  removing 
her  from  the  trials  and  privations  which  I  with  my  children 
had  to  bear,  as,  from  her  delicate  health,  she  could  not  so  well 
endure  them."  * 

One  more  example  we  give  to  show  what  brave  hearts  were 
in  many  of  those  manses.  The  Rev.  Roderick  M'Leod  states  : 
"  When  many  were  pleading  with  ministers  the  argument  ad 
misericordiam  to  dissuade  them  from  the  final  and  decisive  step 
out  of  regard  to  their  wives  and  children,  she  [Mrs.  M'Leod] 
wrote  to  her  husband  to  Edinburgh,  encouraging  him  to  hold 
on  in  the  course  before  him,  adding  that  when  some  of  her 
neighbours  came  to  condole  with  her  on  her  prospects,  she  hav- 
ing at  the  time  twelve  children  entirely  dependent  on  a  scanty 
income,  '  I  got  courage  to  tell  them  that  I  would  rather  hear  of 
your  death  than  of  your  denying  your  principles.'  Truly  she 
was  a  wife  that  did  her  husband  good  and  not  evil,  all  the  days 
of  her  life."  t 

*  Dis.  Mss.  XX.  p.  2.  t  Parker  Ms?.,  Rev.  R.  M'Leod. 


144  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISKUPTION. 


XVI.  The  Ministers'  Reasons  foe  Going  Out. 

The  Disruption  was  now  complete  :  stipend,  church,  and  manse 
had  been  given  up.  We  shall  speak  of  the  hardships  which 
followed  the  sacrifice  ;  but  before  doing  so,  some  account  must 
be  given  of  the  reasons  which  led  men  thus  to  abandon  the 
Establishment.  There  has  been  much  debate  as  to  what  were 
the  true  grounds  of  the  Disruption.  It  would  surely  be  best 
to  let  men  speak  for  themselves,  not  merely  the  great  leaders, 
but  still  more  those  ministers  who  took  little  part  in  the  con- 
troversy, and  whose  statements  were  written  down  in  their  quiet 
homes  either  in  1843  or  shortly  afterwards. 

Although  the  Deed  of  Demission  was  signed,  as  we  have  seen, 
firmly  and  without  a  murmur,  and  though  the  sacrifice  brought 
its  own  satisfaction  and  relief,  yet  there  are  not  a  few  state- 
ments in  the  Disruption  Mss.  which  show  the  inward  struggle 
through  which  many  had  to  pass  before  the  resolution  was  finally 
taken. 

Thus  a  young  minister  wrote  at  the  time — Mr,  Stewart,  of 
Aberdeen,  who  soon  afterwards  died,  in  early  manhood,  to  the 
grief  of  many  :  "  How  many  overpowering  associations  crowd 
on  one's  mind  when  thinking  of  leaving  the  Establishment ! 
The  Established  Church  of  Scotland  has  been  to  me  an  object 
of  idolatry.  To  be  one  of  its  ministers,  to  be  received  into  the 
goodly  company  of  its  pastors,  and  set  upon  one  of  its  watch- 
towers,  was  long  the  very  crown  of  my  ambition.  And  now,  to 
be  told  that  on  account  of  the  very  principles  which  constitute 
its  peculiar  glory,  and  in  my  estimation  always  did  so,  I  must 
quit  the  position  to  which,  though  most  unworthy,  I  have  been 
raised,  goes  to  my  very  heart.     How  grievously  our  Legislators 


THE  MINISTEKS'  REASONS  FOR  GOING  OUT.  145 

misunderstand  us.  ...  I  love  my  country.  ...  I  would  die 
for  her  hoary  institutions,  and  yet  I  am  told  that  I  am  an  enemy 
to  order  and  social  happiness,"  * 

Dr.  John  Bonar,  then  of  Larbert,  states  his  own  feelings 
and  those  of  many  others  in  view  of  the  sacrifice  :  "  Already 
poverty  and  destitution  stare  every  minister  in  the  face  who 
will  hold  to  tlie  noble  place  which,  by  the  grace  of  God,  tlie 
Church  has  taken.  Family,  friends,  dependant  relatives,  sickness, 
death,  destitution,  neglect,  rise  oft  to  the  faucy.  ...  Do  people 
think  we  are  not  men  ?  Do  they  think  we  are  not  men  of  like 
passions  ?  Do  they  not  know  the  weakness  of  human  nature, 
and  with  such  fightings  without  and  fears — ^not  for  ourselves, 
but  for  what  shall  come  on  them  who  are  more  to  us  than 
ourselves  on  the  earth — within,  do  they  not  think  we  emi- 
nently need  the  sympathies  and  prayers  of  all?  But  higher 
interests  are  at  stake.  'Take  heed  to  the  flock  over  which 
the  Holy  Ghost  hath  made  you  overseers.'  This  swallows  up 
everything  else."  ^f- 

Dr.  Buchanan,  of  Glasgow,  addressing  his  brethren  in  the 
Convocation,  said  that  "  the  thought  of  a  Voluntary  Church  was 
to  him  as  darkness  ;  but  the  pillar  of  fire  would  be  there,  and  he 
would  go  as  led." 

Dr.  Gordon,  of  Edinburgh,  declared,  "  I  do  it  most  unwillingly, 
I  am  compelled  by  a  force  far  more  terrible  to  me  than  the 
baton  of  the  constable,  or  the  musket  of  the  soldier — I  am 
compelled  by  my  conscience." 

It  has  been  the  dream  of  many  that  the  leaders  of  this 
movement  were  recklessly  determined  to  urge  on  their  own 
ambitious  designs,  and  that  their  followers  were  hurried 
along  under  the  impulse  of  blind  partisanship.  Nothing  can 
be  more  fallacious. 

On  the  part  of  the  leaders,  it  is  recorded  that  when  Lord 
Aberdeen  came  forward  with  what  professed  to  be  a  healing 
measure,  "  a  friend,  calling  on  another  Church  leader,  found 
Dr.  Cunningham  and  him  going  over  the  Bill.  The  former 
[Dr.  C]  was  in    the  deepest  anxiety,  and  again  and   again 

*  Parker  Mss.,  Eev.  J.  Stewart. 
t  Reasons  for  Religious  People,  &c.,  by  the  Rev.  J.  Bonar,  p.  8. 

L 


146  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 

returned  to  the  Bill  to  pore  over  its  clauses,  as  if  he  could  not 
make  up  his  mind  to  the  cruel  conviction  that  it  kept  carefully 
short  of  the  essential  and  indispensable  provisions,  and  that  all 
the  consequences  of  rejecting  it  must  be  faced."  * 

At  the  time  of  the  Convocation,  Dr.  Candlish  publicly  declared 
that  the  position  of  the  Church  had  not  been  hastily  taken  up : 
"On  the  contrary,  I  will  say  for  myself,  and  for  many  of  my 
fathers  and  brethren,  that  it  is  a  position  which  we  have  most 
reluctantly  taken,  against  the  necessity  of  which  we  defended 
and  guarded  ourselves  by  all  kinds  of  argument,  and  to  which 
we  shrank  from  committing  ourselves.  .  .  .  But  now,  not  of  our 
own  seeking,  for  God  knows  that  we  have  sought  anything  but 
this,  we  have  listened  to  every  proposition,  to  every  suggestion 
but  this,  we  have  been  ready  to  conciliate,  I  fear  we  have  been 
ready  to  compromise, — not  of  our  own  seeking,  then,  but  in  the 
leadings  of  God's  providence,  and  by  the  teaching  of  His  Spirit, 
we  have  again  got  that  glorious  watchword  with  which  our 
fathers  were  so  familiar."  -f* 

In  regard  to  the  more  retiring  country  ministers,  it  is  certain 
that  never  were  there  men  who  had  greater  reason  to  look  nar- 
rowly to  the  grounds  on  which  they  were  called  to  act ;  and  we 
find  them  accordingly  giving  to  the  whole  subject  the  most 
conscientious  and  thoughtful  consideration.  "  I  felt,"  Mr. 
Mackenzie,  of  Farr,  writes  after  the  Convocation,  "  the  necessity 
of  close  application  in  private  study,  .  .  .  especially  in  reference 
to  the  Supreme  Headship  of  Christ.  I  felt  the  necessity  of 
closer  attention  than  ever  to  this  infinitely  important  subject, 
as  brought  to  light  in  the  Scriptures,  and,  as  stated,  illustrated, 
and  confirmed  in  the  writings  of  godly  witnesses  in  England 
and  Scotland,  who,  for  their  adherence  to  the  Eedeeraer  in  His 
Divine  Headship  over  His  Church,  suffered  persecution,  im- 
prisonment, and  death.  I  felt  the  necessity  of  this,  and  that, 
by  the  Divine  blessing,  I  might  obtain  to  greater  clearness  and 
a  firmer  faith.  ...  I  have  to  confess,  that  in  such  exercises  1 
felt  much  satisfaction."  | 

Mr.  Mather,  of  Stanley,  states :  "  I  was  led  to  reflect  much 

*  Life  of  Dr.  Cunningham,  p.  152.    Note  by  Dr.  Rainy. 

t  Witness,  26th  November,  1842.  X  Dis.  Mss.  xx.  p.  3. 


THE  MINISTEES'  REASONS  FOR  GOING  OUT.  147 

on  the  great  principles  that  were  involved  in  the  controversy, 
and  to  feel  that  no  Church  which  abandoned  these  principles 
for  the  sake  of  secular  advantage  could  expect  the  Divine  bless- 
ing. And  as  the  controversy  proceeded,  all  hopes  of  an  honour- 
able and  scriptural  settlement  of  the  question  being  taken  away, 
my  way  was  hedged  in,  like  that  of  my  brethren,  to  leave  the 
Establishment.  ...  It  was  a  solemn  season,  and  1  often  felt 
deeply  awed  and  impressed  during  the  Convocation,  at  the 
Disruption ;  and  most  of  all,  while  signing  the  Deed  of  Demis- 
sion, at  the  honour  put  on  me,  His  unworthy  servant,  by  my 
Divine  Lord,  in  making  me  a  witness  for  His  truth."  * 

The  results  of  such  consideration  appear  in  various  statements 
which  we  meet  with  in  the  narratives. 

Dr.  Moody  Stuart,  of  Edinburgh,  presents  the  Bible  aspect 
of  the  great  question  that  was  involved  in  the  struggle :  "  While 
preaching  in  the  district  of  Strathbogie,"  he  says,  "  the  labour 
and  exposure  had  brought  on  a  severe  affection  of  the  throat, 
for  which  I  was  ordered  to  Madeira.  .  .  .  Distance,  time,  quiet, 
sickness  had  altered  or  modified  many  of  my  thoughts.  .  ,  . 
In  the  silent  retrospect  of  life,  with  the  prospect  of  a  possibly 
near  eternity,  much  that  had  seemed  first  was  now  last,  and  the 
last  was  first ;  but  the  truth  and  magnitude  of  our  Church's 
testimony  to  the  Heatiship  of  Christ  over  His  own  house — 
even  unto  separation  from  the  State — liad  only  stood  forth  in 
greater  clearness.  After  every  deduction  for  the  elements  of 
earth  that  had  mingled  in  the  conflict,  the  great  principles 
looked  still  greater  than  before,  and  the  broad  lines  of  procedure 
more  brightly  shone  upon  by  the  Word,  by  grace,  and  by  Pro- 
vidence." "f 

His  testimony  was  made  yet  more  distinct  by  a  brief  address, 
delivered  in  remarkable  circumstances  :  "  The  first  verses  of  the 
23rd  of  Luke  were  read  and  explained.  Christ's  kingdom 
is  in  the  world,  yet  not  of  the  world :  the  Church  is  subject 
and  responsible  to  Him  alone  in  the  appointment  and  removal 
of  pastors,  and  in  the  entire  rule  and  discipline  of  His  house. 
And  she  is  unfaithful  to  her  Head  if  she  resigns  that  trust  to 

*  Dis.  ISIss.  V.  pp.  2,  3. 
+  Life  of  the  Last  Duchess  of  Gordon,  p.  263. 


148  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

any  other,  or  executes  it  at  the  command  of  the  highest  power 
on  earth.  Nor  was  the  question  a  light  one,  since  on  it  had 
hinged  the  death  of  our  blessed  Lord  Himself.  This  truth  w'as 
not  the  end -for  which  He  died,  but  it  was  the  turning-point  of 
His  death.  It  was  the  good  confession  He  had  witnessed  before 
Pilate,  and  it  was  because  He  would  not  retract  His  declaration 
that  He  was  a  King,  that  He  was  led  to  crucifixion.  If  this 
truth  was  great  enough  for  our  Master  to  suffer  death  for 
declaring  it,  it  could  not  he  too  little  for  us  to  accept  as  a 
ground  of  suffering,  of  impy^isonment,  or  of  death  itself."* 

Mr.  Thomson,  of  Muckhart,  was  clerk  to  the  Presbytery  of 
Auchterarder,  and,  as  was  natural,  he  dwells  on  tlie  legal  and 
constitutional  aspects  of  the  question.  Almost  from  the  outset 
of  the  great  lawsuit  he  had  anticipated  an  adverse  result.  One 
circumstance  which  specially  prepared  his  mind  for  the  Disrup- 
tion "  was  a  clear  exhibition  of  the  hopelessness  of  our  position, 
unless  we  were  to  prove  traitors  to  Christ,  brought  before  us 
at  a  private  meeting  of  the  brethren,  held  under  St.  George's 
Church  in  August,  1842,  by  our  valued  friend,  Mr.  John  Hamil- 
ton, advocate,  when  he  directed  our  attention  to  the  circumstance, 
that  all  the  decisions  of  the  Supreme  Civil  Court  rested  in  reality, 
not  upon  a  rigid  interpretation  of  the  various  Statutes,  but  upon 
this :  '  There  cannot  be  an  imperium  in  iniperio.'  The  whole 
truth,  the  peril,  the  hopelessness  of  our  position  then  fully 
flashed  upon  my  mind,  and  I  saw  the  certainty  of  the  coming 
event."  -f- 

Three  years  after  the  event,  Dr.  Burns,  of  Kilsyth,  reviews 
his  position.  He  is  not  insensible  to  the  sacrifice  he  has  made  : 
"  The  breaking  up  of  intercourse  with  the  gentry  of  the  vicinity, 
the  loss  of  a  commodious  manse,  where,  for  twenty-three  years, 
much  comfort  was  enjoyed,  a  good  glebe  of  ten  acres,  a  living  of 
about  £300  per  annum,  an  elegant  church,  a  status  in  society, 
&c. ;"  but  he  adds  :  "What  is  all  this  compared  with  the  approba- 

*  Life  of  the  Last  Duchess  of  Gordon,  p.  269. 

t  Dis.  Mss.  xxviii.  p.  3.  This  view,  asserting  the  supremacy  of  the 
civil  power  over  both  the  civil  and  spiritual  spheres,  goes  much  deeper, 
it  will  be  seen,  than  anything  merely  connected  with  the  Patronage  Act 
us  an  individual  statute. 


THE  MINISTEKS'  KEASONS  FOR  GOING  OUT.  149 

tion  of  conscience,  and  the  peace  of  God  keeping  the  heart  ana 
mind,  the  honour  of  taking  a  part  in  upholding  the  Crown  rights 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  of  co-operating  with  the  best  of 
the  ministers  and  elders  in  this  land,  the  freedom  from  the  most 
galling  yoke  of  servitude  being  forced  upon  us,  and  last,  not 
least,  deliverance  from  the  incubus  and  unequal  yoking  of  what 
has  been  called  Moderatism,  impeding  us  in  every  spiritual  and 
zealous  movement,  hedging  us  up  from  every  attempt  to  benefit 
the  poor  people  of  any  conterminous  district.  The  incongruous 
union  has  continued  by  far  too  long,  and  coalition  in  future 
cannot  be  contemplated  as  possible."  * 

The  sermon  which  Dr.  Sieve wright,  of  Markinch,  addressed 
to  his  congregation  on  the  first  Sabbath  after  the  Disruption 
will  show  how  vigorously  those  country  ministers,  who  took 
but  little  part  in  the  conflict,  were  able  to  think  and  speak  on 
the  great  questions  at  issue.  "  What  doest  thou  here,  Elijah  ?" 
was  the  text  from  which  he  addressed  his  people.  "  We  are 
not  willingly  here.  Nothing  short  of  a  great  moral  necessity 
has  severed  ties  long  and  fondly  cherished,  involving  an  amount 
of  sacrifice  the  incredulous  world  did  reckon  far  beyond  .  ,  . 
our  limited  virtue  to  attain,  ...  to  renounce  what  toiling 
industry  pants  to  acquire — a  desirable  home,  an  honourable 
competency,  a  certain  and  sufficient  provision  for  life,  together 
with  an  official  position  which,  unless  misconduct  disgraces  it, 
has  usually  commanded  respect." 

But,  turning  to  the  parishioners,  he  repeats  the  question, 
"  What  doest  thou  here  ? — here,  in  this  limited  and  incom- 
modious place,  that  little  resembles  a  place  of  worship,  and 
has  many  ideas  associated  with  its  ordinary  uses  that  ill  accord 
with  the  sanctity  we  fondly  attach  to  a  temple.  Hard  by,  too, 
stands  an  edifice  of  more  seemly  appearance,  ...  of  old  conse- 
crated to  the  rites  of  Divine  worship.  There  your  fathers 
adored  their  fathers'  God.  There  yourselves  and  your  children 
were  baptised  into  the  faith  and  privileges  of  the  Christian 
Church.  There  many  of  you  have  kept  solemn  holy  days.  .  .  . 
And  is  it,  brethren,  to  you  no  sacrifice  to  turn  your  backs  on  so 
hallowed  a  spot,  endeared  by  tokens  of  a  Divine  presence,  by 
*  Dis.  !Mss.  xxix.  pp.  29,  30. 


150  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISKUPTION. 

recollections  of  the  living,  and  of  the  dead  who  sleep  round  its 
aucient  tower,  waiting  for  the  restitution  of  all  things  ?  We 
are  not  here  by  a  willing  and  costless  transition.  Wherefore, 
then,  have  we  come  ?  A  great  moral  necessity  enforced  our 
removal.  .  .  .  The  day  has  come  when  the  Church  Established 
has  forfeited  a  just  pretension  to  be  regarded  as  the  Church  of 
Scotland,  because  she  has  departed  from  that  Church's  constitu- 
tion and  principles  in  two  leading  particulars — the  supremacy 
of  Christ  as  actual  and  acting  Head  of  the  Church,  and  the 
spiritual  independence  of  the  Church,  which  is  His  body.  The 
regal  supremacy  of  Christ  is  a  doctrine  written  as  with  a  sun- 
beam on  many  a  page  of  Scripture.  .  .  .  His  kingdom  is  not  of 
this  world,  as  Himself  witnessed  before  Pilate;  but  yet  that 
He  was  a  King,  and  had  a  kingdom,  He  shunned  not  to  avow 
in  the  presence  of  that  imperious  Roman.  And  if  this  be  so — 
if  Christ  is  living  Head  of  the  Church,  and  reigning  King  of 
Zion — what  recognition  and  reverence  are  due  to  His  Majesty, 
what  respect  and  submission  to  His  every  ordinance  and  enact- 
ment !  and  has  He  given  power  to  His  servants  to  administer 
the  affairs  of  His  house,  and  shall  these  servants  disclaim  the 
power  and  forego  the  exercise  of  it  in  deference  to  secular  usur- 
pation ?  .  .  .  And  hath  it  come  to  this  that  a  Christian  Church 
.  .  .  shall  be  treated  as  a  mere  civil  corporation  ?  .  .  .  Shall 
we  turn  away  from  the  King  that  God  the  Father  hath  put 
upon  His  holy  hill,  the  King  whom  our  ancient  worthies  there 
worshipped  and  obeyed  ?  .  .  .  From  Him  shall  we  go  to  Csesar 
for  redress,  as  if  He  who  shall  judge  the  world  were  of  no 
account  or  estimation  ?  Shall  we  ask  leave  of  civil  judicatories 
to  bind  and  loose,  to  open  and  shut,  ordain  or  depose,  making 
diligent  suit  to  them  to  tell  us  precisely  what  is  right  and  what 
were  wrong  in  questions  of  Church  order  and  spiritual  jurisdic- 
tion ?  Because  we  would  not  consent  to  this  disparagement  and 
defection,  we  stand  before  you  this  day  divested  of  .  .  .  all 
parish  immunities."  * 

In  addition  to  such  sermons,  a  large  proportion  of  the  minis- 
ters, at  the  time  when  they  left  the  Establishment,  assigned 

*  A  Protester's   A.pology  for   Quitting  the  Established  Church,  &c. 
pp.  4-10. 


THE  MINISTEES'  EEASONS  FOR  GOING  OUT.  X61 

their  reasons  in  the  form  of  addresses,  printed  and  circulated 
among  their  parishioners.  Looking  back  from  the  distance  of 
thirty  years  on  this  great  array  of  pamphlets,  one  is  struck  by  the 
prominence  which  they  give  to  the  one  subject  of  the  spiritual 
independence  of  the  Church  in  connection  with  the  Headship 
of  Christ.  Approaching  the  question  at  issue,  as  they  do,  in 
many  different  methods,  this  is  the  central  point  on  which  they 
all  converge.  We  can  give  only  a  very  few  examples  to  illustrate 
the  views  which  then  prevailed. 

One  of  the  pamphlets  which  attracted  notice  was  by  Dr. 
M'Cosh,  then  of  Brechin.  He  began  by  stating  that  he  would 
find  little  difficulty  in  proving  two  things — "  first,  That  the 
judges  and  statesmen  of  the  land  do  hold  that  the  Established 
Church  is  bound  to  obey  them  in  spiritual  matters ;  and  second, 
That  the  Established  Church  has  in  its  deeds  (whatever  may 
be  its  professions  in  words)  taken  orders  from  the  Civil  Courts 
in  the  most  sacred  spiritual  matters,  and  given  unto  Caesar 
the  things  that  be  God's."  By  an  overwhelming  array  of  proof 
he  establishes  the  first  of  these  positions,  and  then  proceeds 
to  inquire  "  how  far  the  Church  has  acquiesced  in  that  law, 
.  .  .  Those  who  remained  in  the  Establishment  did  so  on  the 
express  understanding  that  they  were  to  submit  to  the  supre- 
macy of  the  civil  law.  Where  is  now  the  party  in  the  Church 
protesting  against  the  acts  or  the  language  of  our  statesmen 
and  judges  ?  There  is  no  such  party,  and  there  can  be  no 
such  party ;  for  the  law  and  constitution  are  now  settled,  and 
it  is  in  vain  for  persons  to  remain  in  any  society,  and  protest 
against  its  constitution. 

"  How,  then,  did  the  General  Assembly  deal  with  those  acts  [of 
the  Church]  when  the  protesting  party  left  in  May,  1843  ?  .  .  . 
The  Assembly  did  not  retain  so  much  as  the  semblance  of  inde- 
pendent authority.  It  hastened  to  fling  itself  in  abject  prostra- 
tion at  the  feet  of  its  master.  It  declared  that,  because  the 
Civil  Court  said  so,  the  Veto  was  no  law,  and  never  had  been  a 
law  of  the  Church,  and  that  the  Strathbogie  ministers  never 
had  been  deposed.  .  .  .  Was  the  Church  obeying  Christ  or 
obeying  the  House  of  Lords  in  intruding  Mr.  Young  into 
Auchterarder  ?      We  can  point  to  the  orders  of   the  House 


152  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

of  Lords  to  this  eflfect ;  but-  it  is  more  difficult  to  point  to 
the  command  of  Christ  in  His  Word.  .  .  .  Was  the  Church 
obeying  Christ  or  obeying  the  Courts  of  law  when  it  declared 
that  between  two  and  three  hundred  pastors  of  quoad  sacra 
parishes,  with  their  numerous  elders,  all  elected  according  to 
Scripture,  had  no  power  to  hold  kirk-sessions,  to  admit  com- 
municants, to  exercise  discipline,  or  generally  to  rule  in  Christ's 
Church  ?  We  can  point  to  many  passages  of  God's  Word  in 
which  it  is  said  to  be  the  duty  of  ministers  and  elders  to  rule  in 
conformity  to  Christ's  laws.  .  .  .  Where,  then,  was  the  Assem- 
bly's authority  for  declaring  they  should  not  rule  ?  .  .  .  I  know 
they  can  give  us  the  authority  of  the  Court  of  Session ;  and  if 
they  say  they  were  obeying  that  authority,  I  believe  them.  .  .  . 
Here  we  have  a  state  of  things  in  which  the  commands  of 
Christ  and  those  of  the  civil  authority  were  manifestly  opposed ; 
and  the  Assembly,  by  obeying  the  latter,  declared,  in  the  face 
of  the  whole  world,  that  they  acknowledged  it  to  be  the  true 
master  of  the  house  and  head  of  the  kingdom."  ...  "It  was 
because  they  felt  that  the  fundamental  principles  and  very  con- 
stitution of  the  Establishment  had  been  changed  by  the  recent 
decisions  that  so  many  were  constrained  to  abandon  it  by  the 
highest  of  all  compulsions — the  compulsion  of  conscience  and 
of  duty."  * 

The  address  of  Mr.  Taylor,  of  Flisk,  was  called  forth  in  re- 
markable circumstances.  His  settlement  in  the  parish  took 
place  on  the  14th  of  April,  the  very  eve  of  the  Disruption.  "  The 
manner  of  my  entry  at  Flisk  was  very  stormy,  but  God  over- 
ruled it  for  good.  Dr.  Anderson,  of  Newburgh,  officiated  at  the 
induction,  and  as  he  regarded  himself  as  the  mouthpiece  of  his 
party,  he  considered  that  something  would  be  expected  of  him. 
.  .  .  After  putting  the  questions  and  receiving  the  suitable 
answers,  the  Dr.  politely  asked  me  to  sit  down,  and  in  a  care- 
fully prepared  address  of  about  an  hour's  length,  he  condemned 
the  agitation  movements  of  the  Evangelical  party,  and  the  Con- 
vocation deliberations,  and  praised  the  Church  of  Scotland  as 
shaped  and  modelled  by  the  decisions  of  the  Law  Courts,  he  took 

*  Does  the  Establislied  Church  Acknowledge  Christ  as  its  Head  ?  By 
the  Eev.  J.  M'Cosh,  Brechm.     1846. 


THE  MINISTERS   REASONS  FOR  GOING  OUT.  153 

me  bound  by  the  solemn  vows  then  administered  to  me  not  to 
leave  the  Church  as  by  law  established,  and  not  to  meddle  with 
those  who  are  given  to  change.  The  address  to  the  people  was 
much  in  the  same  strain.  During  its  delivery  the  congregation 
looked  on  with  a  sober  unmeaning  gravity.  Many  of  the  Mo- 
derate brethren  seemed  to  enjoy  a  great  satisfaction  as  the  roll 
of  the  Dr.'s  artillery  was  directed  against  their  opponents.  One 
little  incident  there  was  which  enlivened  and  gave  character  to 
the  scene.  An  old  man,  blind  Jamie  Blyth,  whose  intellectual 
perceptions  were  keener  than  those  of  his  neighbours,  and  who 
was  most  keen  in  his  abhorrence  of  anything  that  savoured  of 
Moderatism,  listened  patiently  until  he  discovered  the  drift 
of  the  Dr.'s  address,  and  then  indignantly  rising,  he  called, 
'  Hand  me  my  hat,  and  let  me  to  the  door,  for  I  canna  thole 
this.' " 

At  the  close  of  the  address  an  animated  discussion  took  place, 
in  the  course  of  which  Mr.  Taylor  disclaimed  the  interpretation 
put  on  the  ordination  vows,  and  subsequently  he  published  a 
reply  to  the  address  under  the  title  of  "  A  few  words  to  the 
Parishioners  of  Flisk."  He  shows  the  change  effected  by  recent 
decisions  on  the  constitution  of  the  Church  of  Scotland.  Of 
that  Church  as  set  forth  by  Dr.  Anderson  he  says  :  "  This  is  not 
the  Zion  which  was  of  old,  .  .  .  which  Knox  founded  and 
Melville  built  up.  These  are  not  the  bulwarks  which  Henderson, 
and  Welsh,  and  Guthrie  raised.  This  is  not  the  carved  work 
which  the  hands  of  Kutherford,  and  Boston,  and  Willison  formed. 
This  is  not  the  Zion  which  was  lately  attacked,  and  on  the 
battlements  of  which  were  seen  the  venerable  forms  of  Chalmers, 
and  Gordon,  and  Brown,  and  the  day  of  whose  danger  called 
forth  the  youthful  defence  of  Candlish,  and  Begg,  and  Buchanan, 
and  gathered  round  her  the  weighty  and  talented  support  of 
such  elders  as  Dunlop,  and  Crichton,  and  Spiers,  and  Monteith, 
and  Buchan,  and  Collins.  .  .  .  That  Establishment  was  an  Estab- 
lishment which  claimed  the  power  to  do  what  Christ  wills,  and 
not  the  power  of  doing  merely  what  the  State  allows.  .  .  . 
Sooner  far  join  with  the  Voluntary  in  saying,  '  No  Establish- 
ment,' than  join  with  the  Erastian  in  seeking  a  shackled  and 
secularised  one.  .  .  . 


154  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

"I  have  no  interest  in  leaving  the  Establishment.  Considera- 
tions of  worldly  interest  call  upon  me  to  remain.  There  is  not 
a  morning  I  wake  amid  the  song  of  early  birds,  there  is  not  a 
time  I  saunter  in  the  enclosures  of  this  sweet  solitude,  every  one 
of  which  tells  of  the  taste  of  him  who  designed  them,  I  never 
■recline  in  its  den,  soothed  by  the  soft  sound  of  its  falling  waters, 
I  never  look  forth  to  the  distant  hills  which  seem  as  a  frame  to 
the  picture  formed  by  Tay's  broad  waves,  and  the  rich  mansion- 
studded  fields  of  Gowrie — but  I  feel  the  rising  desire,  here  to 
stay.  The  harmonious  and  happy  nature  of  my  settlement,  so 
far  as  you  were  concerned,  your  own  kindness,  of  which  I  am 
daily  receiving  fresh  instances,  and  instances  the  most  abundant 
from  quarters  where  they  were  least  looked  for,  the  size  of  the 
church  and  the  extent  of  my  parish,  and  the  fear  that  if  I  am 
forced  to  leave  this  sphere  of  labour,  my  weakly  health  may  be 
unable  to  contend  with  the  excitements  and  increased  labours 
of  a  secession  state — all  these  things  move  me.  But  much  as  I 
value  these  things,  I  would  wish  to  value  my  principles  more. 
I  would  wish  to  prefer  the  honour  of  Christ  as  King  in  Zion, 
and  the  time-honoured  testimony  of  the  Church  of  Scotland, 
'  that  she  is  free  in  her  government  from  all  other  jurisdictions 
except  Christ's,'  and  the  Christian  rights  of  her  Christian  people. 
To  these  principles  I  am  pledged :  from  them  I  cannot,  I  dare 
not — God  strengthening  me — I  will  not  go  back."  * 

In  addition  to  the  addresses  from  which  these  extracts 
have  been  taken,  there  is  a  long  series,  in  which  the  questions 
at  issue  were  ably  handled.  One  by  Mr.  Wood,  of  Elie  (then 
of  Westruther),  was  widely  circulated.  It  contained  an  elabo- 
rate discussion  of  the  kingly  office  of  Christ  in  the  visible 
Church,  with  an  explanation  of  what  is  meant  by  "  the  power 
of  the  keys,"  and  after  showing  how  the  spiritual  authority 
thus  conferred  on  the  Church  had  been  invaded  and  overthrown 
by  the  Law  Courts,  he  argued  that,  "If  the  Statutes  warrant 
these  decisions,  then  no  Church  of  Christ  can  remain  without 
sin  in  connection  with  the  State  under  these  Statutes."  -f 

Another  which  met  with  much  acceptance  was  by  Mr.  Gregory, 

*  A  Few  Words  to  the  Parishioners  of  Flisk,  pp.  14,  15. 

t  Present  Duty,  Pastoral  Address,  &c.,  fourth  thousand,  p.  7. 


THE  MINISTERS    REASONS  FOR  GOING  OUT,  155 

of  Anstruther,  then  of  Eoxburgh  Church,  Edinburgh,  in  wliich 
the  meetings  of  the  Convocation  were  held.  He  enters  fully 
into  the  matter  of  Christ's  Headship,  explaining  clearly  the 
great  principle  of  spiritual  independence,  and  then  points  out 
the  state  to  which  the  Established  Church  had  been  reduced. 
She  holds  her  emoluments  on  this  condition,  that  she  "  shall 
take  laws  and  directions  from  the  civil  authorities,  instead  of 
Christ,  in  spiritual  things,  and  shall,  through  her  office-bearers, 
settle  ministers  over  reclaiming  congregations.  There  is  no 
disguising  or  denying  this.  .  .  .  We  dare  not  hold  by  State 
endowments,  as  we  should  be  free  of  the  fearful  sin  of  selling 
our  allegiance  to  our  King  for  filthy  lucre."  * 

Enough  has  now  been  said  to  show  the  general  drift  of  these 
addresses,  which  came  from  many  of  the  ablest  and  most  devoted 
ministers  all  over  the  country.  But  there  is  one  additional 
statement  which  must  not  be  omitted — the  letter  of  an  aged 
minister,  Mr.  M'Kenzie,  of  Tongue,  whom  the  trials  of  the 
Disruption  sent  to  his  grave,  under  painful  circumstances,  to  be 
afterwards  noticed.  The  reader  will  observe  how  the  firmness 
of  his  decision  was  great  in  proportion  to  the  painful  struggle 
through  which  he  had  to  pass.  Addressing  Mr.  Pitcairn,  clerk 
to  the  Convocation,  he  says,  under  date  29th  December,  1842  : 
"  I  write  to  intimate  my  adherence,  as  minister  of  Tongue,  to  all 
the  resolutions  of  the  late  Convocation  at  Edinburgh.  I  resolved 
this  from  the  first  communication  to  me,  but  immediately 
thereafter,  being  assured  by  local  authority  that  no  separatist 
would  be  permitted  to  remain  as  officiating  minister  within  the 
bounds  of  the  Presbytery,  all  the  property  of  the  Duke  of 
Sutherland  ;  agonised  at  the  thought  of  parting  with  my  beloved, 
sympathising,  and  attached  parishioners  ;  haunted  by  the  denun- 
ciations of  Scripture  against  the  shepherds  who  leave  their  flocks, 
suflering  them  to  wander  on  the  mountains  and  bills,  to  be  meat 
for  the  beasts  of  the  field,  my  resolution  was  staggered  for  a  time, 
and  I  paused  to  examine  the  subject  more  fully  by  the  light  of 
Scripture,  by  meditation  and  prayer,  more  especially  as  from  my 
age  and  infirmities,  obliged  lately  to  engage  an  assistant,  I  could 

*  Good  reasons  for  leaving  the  present  Ecclesiastical  Establishment,  &c., 
sixth  thousand,  pp.  7,  8. 


156  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

expect  no  other  sphere  to  exercise  my  worn-out  faculties  in  luy 
Master's  vineyard,  and  could  not  readily  reconcile  myself  to  be 
wholly  excluded,  silent,  and  useless.  At  length,  with  clear  light 
and  a  good  conscience,  I  said.  Come  what  will,  and  whatever  the 
sacrifice  I  must  render,  that  no  proposed  good  can  sanction 
doing  evil  to  attain  it,  that  nothing  can  warrant  my  remaining 
in  an  Erastian  Church,  and  allying  myself  with  ministers  who 
would  consent  to  make  the  Church  of  Christ  a  creature  of  the 
State,  .  .  .  and  its  servants  only  to  be  the  slaves  of  a  worldly 
tyranny — not  the  commissioned  office-bearers  of  Zion's  King, 
teaching  only  the  doctrines  of  His  instruction,  and  ruling  only 
for  the  glory  of  His  name,  and  the  spiritual  interests  of  His 
purchased  inheritance.  With  unceasing  prayer  for  the  success  of 
the  objects  of  the  Convocation  resolutions  and  memorial,  from 
God  and  man,  and  fully  resolved  to  embark  and  keep  embarked 
with  them,  assured  theirs  is  the  ship  in  which  Christ  is,  and 
which  shall  be  safe,  however  tossed  or  likely  to  perish,  when  He 
sees  meet  to  interpose  and  give  the  command  to  be  still." 

We  close  these  statements  with  one  remarkable  case,  in  which 
old  age  is  assigned  as  one  reason  for  going  out.  "  For  fifteeii 
months  previous  to  the  Disruption,  Mr.  Anderson,  of  Kippen,  suf- 
fered from  a  severe  illness,  which  laid  him  aside  from  ministerial 
work.  In  1843  he  demitted  his  charge,  and  preached  during  the 
summer  in  the  open  air,  and  occasionally  in  a  barn.  The  out- 
ward hardships,  however,  which  he  underwent  were  slight  com- 
pared with  the  scorn  of  former  friends.  He  *  suffered  shame' for 
his  Master — he  became  'a  fool  for  Christ's  sake;'  for  those  who  had 
no  sympathy  with  his  principles  could  only  brand  his  sacrifice  as 
an  act  of  aggravated  folly,  especially  considering  his  advanced 
time  of  life.  Such  objections,  however,  were  thoroughly  met 
by  his  own  words,  '  Tlie  older  I  am,  I  have  the  more  need  to  be 
faithful'  He  lived  only  a  year  and  a-half  after  the  Disruption. 
...  He  died  on  the  27th  of  March,  1845,  in  the  66th  year 
of  his  age,  and  34th  of  his  ministry.  It  is  but  just  to  state 
that  the  painful  opposition  referred  to  wore  away  with  his  life, 
and  disappeared  in  his  grave.  His  funeral  was  a  remarkable 
evidence  of  this.  All,  without  exception,  united  in  the  last 
tribute  to  his  worth,  while  his  widow  and  his  son  gladly  ackuow- 


THE  MINISTERS   REASONS  FOE  GOING  OUT.  157 

ledge  their  obligations  to  his  memory.  They  deeply  feel  that 
much  of  the  favour  withheld  from  him  during  his  trial  has  since 
descended  on  them  for  his  sake.  '  Them  that  honour  me  I  will 
honour.' "  ♦ 

*  I'uiker  Mss.,  Pres.  of  Stirling. 


168  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 


XVlI.  Reasons  foe  Going  Out  given  by  the  People. 

What  made  the  Free  Church  movement  so  formidable  was  the 
extensive  support  which  it  received  from  the  laity,  not  only 
among  the  leading  elders,  but  among  the  general  population. 
Their  reasons  were  various.  Personal  attachment  to  the  out- 
going ministers  was  a  strong  inducement  on  the  part  of  many ; 
but  it  is  obvious  that  if  that  had  been  all,  the  movement,  instead 
of  being  what  we  now  see  it,  would  soon  have  lost  its  hold 
amidst  the  changes  of  succeeding  years.  There  must  have  been 
some  far  more  deeply-seated  and  powerful  impulse  which  swayed 
the  popular  mind.  And  this  is  all  the  more  obvious  when  we 
consider  the  numerous  cases  in  which  respected  parish  minis- 
ters remained  in  the  Establishment,  while  the  people  took  their 
own  course,  and  formed  Free  Church  congregations. 

One  reason  which  powerfully  influenced  many  was  their 
opposition  to  the  preaching  and  policy  of  what  were  called 
"  the  Moderates."  The  origin  of  this  Moderate  party  (the 
name  is  of  their  own  choosing),  is  usually  traced  back  to  that 
class  of  ministers  who  changed  from  Presbytery  to  Episcopacy, 
and  from  Episcopacy  to  Presbytery,  as  each  party  rose  into  the 
ascendant.  After  the  Revolution  of  1688,  the  presence  of  such 
men  ("  the  court  party,"  as  Dr.  M'Crie  styles  them)  was  felt  as  a 
great  weakness  to  the  Church.  Unfortunately,  as  time  went 
on,  their  influence  increased,  till,  in  1734,  they  cast  out  the 
Erskines  and  other  Seceders  ;  and  by  a  still  more  flagrant 
abuse  of  power  in  1752,  deposed  Gillespie,  the  founder  of  the 
Relief  Synod.  Then  the  free-tliiuking  spirit  of  the  age  began 
to  prevail  in  their  ranks,  till,  publicly  and  privately,  all  strictness 
of  doctrine  was  discarded.  It  is  now  known  that  if  it  had  been 
safe,  they  would  have  thrown  aside  the  Confession  of  Faith.    In 


REASONS  FOR  GOING  OUT  GIVEN  BY  THE  PEOPLE.  159 

1796  they  passed  an  Act  of  Assembly  condemning  Christian 
missions,  and  in  1799  another  forbidding  the  pulpits  to  all 
ministers  of  any  other  denomination;  their  object  in  thus  cutting 
themselves  off  from  Christendom  being  to  exclude  the  earnest 
Gospel  ministrations  of  such  men  as  Simeon  of  Cambridge. 

All  through  the  Ten  Years'  Conflict  this  party  identified 
themselves  with  the  proceedings  of  the  Civil  Courts,  and  at  the 
Disruption  the  Established  Church  passed  into  their  hands,  with 
its  constitution  moulded  according  to  their  Moderate  views — 
the  old  scriptural  constitution  of  the  Scottish  Establishment 
being  thus  completely  and,  it  is  feared,  finally  overthrown,  as 
regards  the  vital  question  of  spiritual  independence. 

From  the  commencement  of  the  century  the  Moderate  party 
had  begun  rapidly  to  lose  ground  before  the  rising  power  of 
Evangelism,  led  on  by  the  late  Sir  Henry  Moncreiff,  Dr.  Thom- 
son, and  Dr.  Chalmers.  Some  of  their  number — not  a  large 
section — became  themselves  evangelical  in  sentiment  and  zeal- 
ous in  action,  while  still  holding  the  anomalous  position  of 
being  Moderates  in  policy.  There  were  others  who  held  by 
the  doctrines  of  the  Confession  in  all  their  strictness,  but  who 
had  little  zeal  in  their  ministerial  work.  The  great  mass 
of  the  party,  however,  stiU.  continued  to  be  what  they  had 
been  before.  There  was  much  ground  for  the  strong  view 
taken  by  Hugh  Miller :  "  We  have  but  one  Bible  and  one  Con- 
fession of  Faith  in  our  Scottish  Establishment,  but  we  have 
two  religions  in  it ;  and  these,  though  they  bear  exactly  the 
same  name,  and  speak  nearly  the  same  language,  are  yet  funda- 
mentally and  vitally  different."  In  Church  politics  the  single 
rule  of  the  Moderate  party  was  to  uphold  the  views  of  the  Civil 
Courts  and  to  maintain  patronage  ;  while,  in  regard  to  the  usual 
style  of  their  pulpit  ministrations,  the  following  estimate  may 
be  accepted  as  a  close  approximation  to  the  truth :  "  In  theo- 
logy the  Moderate  inclines  to  what  is  loosely  styled  Arminian 
doctrine,  although  Arminius  himself  would  have  disowned  it, 
but  what  may  be  more  properly  called  legal  doctrine.  He 
exhibits  the  precepts  of  Christianity  apart  from  the  remedial 
and  strengthening  grace  of  Christianity.  Somehow,  although 
he  may  not  state  it,  he  leaves  his  hearers  to  think  that  man  is 


160  ANNALS  OP  THE  DISRUPTION. 

the  author  and  finisher  of  his  own  salvation.  Even  many  of 
the  Moderate  clergy  who  profess  a  sounder  creed  than  that 
we  have  described  are  most  confused  in  their  statements  of  what 
the  Gospel  is.  With  them  it  is  a  Yea  and  a  Nay  Gospel,  com- 
pounded "of  alternate  averments  and  retractations."  * 

Such  was  the  class  of  ministers  whose  preaching  and  policy 
had  for  long  been  distasteful  to  the  Scottish  people ;  and,  as  may 
well  be  understood,  the  feeling  of  dislike  became  only  the  more 
intense  in  proportion  as  the  revived  spirit  of  rehgious  earnest- 
ness spread  over  the  country.  For  two  or  three  generations 
many  of  the  more  earnest  members  of  the  Church  had  been 
gradually  going  over  to  the  Seceders,  and  even  among  those 
who  clung  to  the  Establishment  there  were  large  numbers  who 
did  so  with  extreme  reluctance  and  dissatisfaction.  In  Lesma- 
hagow.  Dr.  Parker  thus  describes  the  situation  :  "  In  this  quarter 
a  change  took  place  to  the  worse,  similar  to  what  has  been 
observed  in  other  districts  of  Scotland.  .  .  .  The  Upper  Ward 
of  Lanarkshire  was  for  many  years  previous  to  the  Disruption 
characterised  by  a  painful  apathy  on  religious  subjects.  The 
ministers  belonging  to  the  Establishment  were  for  the  most 
part  of  the  Moderate  school ;  the  few  who  professed  different 
principles  did  not  manifest  much  zeal  in  their  propagation  and 
defence.  .  .  .  Meetings  for  prayer  and  fellowship  were  almost 
wholly  unknown,  and  the  discipline  of  the  Church  had  sunk  in 
many  cases  into  a  vain  and  lifeless  form.  It  must  not  be  for- 
gotten, however,  that,  while  many  a  pulpit  gave  forth  an  uncer- 
tain sound,  and  little  was  done  by  direct  ecclesiastical  agency 
to  advance  the  cause  of  Christ,  there  were  fiimilies  not  a  few  in 
which  pure  religion  found  a  home.  The  children  were  dili- 
gently instructed  in  the  Scriptures  and  the  Shorter  Catechism, 
domestic  worship  was  regularly  observed,  the  writings  of  the 
old  divines  were  eagerly  and  assiduously  perused,  and  every- 
thing contrary  to  good  morals  was  carefully  repressed.  They 
remained  reluctantly  within  the  pale  of  the  Establishment,  little 
edified  by  the  Sabbath  lessons  to  which  they  listened,  but 
indulging  the  hope  that  better  days  would  come — that  God 
would  again  visit  the  vine  which  His  own  right  hand  had 

*  Memoir  of  D.  M.  M.  Crichton.     By  Rev.  J.  W.  Taylor,  p.  206. 


REASONS  FOR  GOING  OUT  GIVEN  BY  THE  PEOPLE.     161 

planted,  and  revive  His  work  in  the  midst  of  the  years.  They 
watched  with  growing  interest  the  advance  of  evangelical  senti- 
ment in  the  Church  of  their  fathers.  They  rejoiced  when  these 
sentiments  gained  the  ascendancy  in  the  General  Assembly,  and 
they  were  gradually  prepared,  when  the  day  of  trial  and  the 
hour  of  separation  came,  to  cast  in  their  lot  with  the  protesting 
minority  of  her  faithful  ministers."  * 

In  the  North,  we  find  the  Duchess  of  Gordon,  after  her 
widowhood,  thus  lamenting  her  isolation  at  Huntly :  "  It  is 
really  a  trial  to  feel  that  the  truth  is  preached  in  the  dissenting 
chapels ;  but  then  they  are  Voluntaries,  and  here  am  I  on  a  hill. 
0  for  wisdom,  and,  above  all,  grace  and  love  ! "  -l* 

Now,  it  should  be  remembered  that,  up  to  the  time  of  the 
Disruption,  Scotland  was  still,  to  a  large  extent,  in  the  hands  of 
this  school  of  divines,  and  they  had  the  people  at  their  mercy ; 
for  by  a  law  of  the  Church  no  minister  could  preach  in  the 
parish  of  any  other  minister  without  his  permission.  It  is  well 
known  that  Dr.  M'Donald,  of  Urquhart,  narrowly  escaped 
rebuke  at  the  bar  of  the  Assembly,  for  having,  without  leave 
from  the  parish  minister,  preached  to  people  who  were  longing 
to  hear  the  Gospel  from  his  lips. 

How  irksome  this  state  of  matters  was  in  many  of  the 
parishes  need  not  be  said.  There  were  some  of  the  ministers 
who  felt  it  keenly,  as  may  be  seen  from  an  entry  in  the  diary  of 
Mr.  M'Cheyne  :  "  Have  been  laying  much  to  heart  the  absolute 
necessity  laid  upon  the  Church  of  sending  the  Gospel  to  our 
dead  parishes  during  the  life  of  the  present  incumbents.  It  is 
confessed  that  many  of  our  ministers  do  not  preach  the  Gospel 
— alas !  because  they  know  it  not.  Yet  they  have  complete 
control  over  their  own  pulpits,  and  may  never  suffer  the  truth 
to  be  heard  there  during  their  whole  incumbency.  And  yet 
our  Church  consigns  these  parishes  to  their  tender  mercies  for 
perhaps  fifty  years  without  a  sigh."  J 

Here,  then,  was  one  ground  on  which  the  Disruption  was 
heartily  welcomed  by  many  of  the  people.  It  broke  the  monopoly. 
Ministers  and  laymen,  in  regard  to  the  preaching  of  a  free  Gos- 

*  Dia.  i\Is3.  xxxi.  p.  2.  t  Lite,  p.  226. 

t  Memoir,  p.  140. 


162  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

pel,  escaped  from  under  the  trammels  of  Moderatism.  Ministers 
might  preach  and  the  people  hear  the  message  of  salvation  when- 
ever there  was  an  opportunity. 

This,  indeed,  was  a  change  for  which  it  appears  many  had 
been  longing  and  praying.  It  was  so  at  Luss,  in  Dumbar- 
tonshire. '  The  people  of  the  parish  were  church-goers,  and 
nothing  more.  There  were  a  few,  however,  who  mourned  over 
the  prevalent  apathy,  and  as  they  talked  apart  with  each  other 
on  the  Sabbath  day  among  the  gravestones  in  the  churchyard, 
cried  out,  '  What  a  dead  place  this  is !'  or,  after  they  had 
thought  over  it  in  their  dwellings,  '  How  long  is  this  to  last  ? ' 
Surely  those  who  were  thus  sighing  for  spiritual  life  .  .  .  were 
inwardly  preparing  for  what  was  to  come."  * 

In  a  similar  way,  in  Strathbogie,  it  is  stated :  "  I  have 
been  often  told  by  humble  Christians  in  Huntly,  who  were 
brought  to  the  love  of  the  truth,  that,  just  before  the  suspension 
of  the  seven  ministers,  many  among  them  felt  a  craving  for 
something  they  did  not  well  know  what;  and  when  the  Assem- 
bly's ministers  were  sent  down,  ...  I  believe  it  was  the  almost 
universal  feeling — This  is  the  very  thing  we  needed.  .  .  .  This 
is  the  thing  we  have  been  seeking."  f 

In  the  same  district  there  was  one  who  spake  yet  more 
emphatically.  "  *  Nobody  need  tell  me  about  the  Moderates,' 
said  the  Duchess  of  Gordon.  '  I  know  them  well.  I  should 
never  think  of  consulting  them  on  any  religious  subject,  or 
asking  them  to  my  house  for  spiritual  profit.  All  I  can  do  is 
to  invite  them  to  dinner,  when  the  Duke  of  Richmond  is  here, 
with  the  farmers  at  the  cattle  show.'  ...  In  the  end  of  Decem- 
ber, 1837,  soon  after  her  return  to  Huntly  Lodge,  we  find  her 
writing  these  striking  words  :  '  We  must  pray  very,  very  hard 
for  more  labourers  in  the  Lord's  vineyard,  and  that  He  may 
send  us  pastors  after  His  own  heart.  I  do  not  see  where  they 
are  to  come  from  at  all,  and  therefore  I  think  I  can  pray  with 
the  more  entire  faith,  and  feel  sure  that  the  Lord  will  give  them 
in  His  own  time  and  way.' "  J 

At  Huntly,  a  young  woman  from  the  country  said :  **  The 

*  Dis.  Mss.  XXX.  pp.  1,  2,  +  Ibid.  x.  p.  2. 

X  Life,  p.  226. 


REASONS  FOE  GOING  OUT  GIVEN  BY  THE  PEOPLE,  163 

rich  folk  talks  about  la',  la' ;  we  puir  folk  ken  naething  about 
the  la',  but  we  ken  fine  fa's  the  best  preachers."  * 

Further  to  the  North,  it  is  stated  that  "  all  the  people  through- 
out the  whole  county  of  Caithness,  who  had  been  noted  for 
their  piety  long  before  the  Disruption  took  place,  most  cordially 
embraced  the  principles  of  the  Free  Church.  This  knowledge 
of  our  having  an  interest  in  the  prayers  of  these  Christians 
most  undoubtedly  had  a  very  powerful  eflfect  in  sustaining  us 
in  the  path  of  duty."  -f- 

But,  apart  from  the  question  of  evangelical  preaching,  there 
were  many  of  the  humbler  ranks  who  well  understood  the  great 
question  that  was  at  issue,  and  were  as  ready  as  their  forefathers 
to  repudiate  the  policy  of  Moderatism,  Mi".  Lewis,  of  Dundee, 
says  of  his  own  congregation :  "  Many  were  doubtless  carried 
away  by  personal  liking  for  the  minister,  and  many  of  the 
young  by  national  feeling  and  generous  sympathy  with  those 
about  to  make  a  sacrifice  for  what  they  regarded  as  principle 
and  duty;  but,  on  looking  over  the  list  of  adherents,  it  was 
obvious  that  both  the  intelligence  and  heart  of  the  congregation 
were  with  us.  .  .  .  All  who  had  been  most  ready  to  do  aught 
for  the  young  through  weekly  and  Sabbath  schools — aU.  who 
took  an  interest  in  missions  in  our  Church  at  home  and  abroad 
— all  who  were  readers  of  Scottish  history,  or  ever  took  any 
interest  in  questions  peculiarly  national  and  Scottish.  The 
older  members  were  with  us  almost  to  a  man  among  the  work- 
ing classes,  recognising  the  contest  as  the  old  question,  and  not 
being  able  to  understand  how  a  Church  of  Christ  could  part 
with  her  right  of  self-government  for  any  civil  or  State  advan- 
tages. The  new  name  for  an  Established  Church,  '  the  creature 
of  the  State,'  seems  to  them  inexpressibly  odious.  Nothing  le.-?s 
than  denying  its  Divine  origin,  and  shrivelling  it  up  into  a 
mere  instrument  of  civil  government  and  police."  \ 

At  the  close  of  his  farewell  sermon  at  Latheron,  Mr.  Davidson 
summoned  a  meeting  of  session,  to  be  held  nexc  day,  to  afford 
the  elders  an  opportunity  of  declaring  their  sentiments  on  a 
matter  so  important.     Accordingly,  he  states  :  "  Met  in  session 

*  Life,  p.  240.  +  Dis.  Mss.  xxv.  p.  2. 

X  Parker  Mss.,  Pres.  of  Dundee. 


164  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

as  proposed,  and  the  elders  having  been  asked  to  declare  their 
sentiments  as  to  the  altered  state  of  matters,  and  their  own 
intention  thereanent,  George  Mackay,  the  senior  elder,  after  a 
pause  and  prayer  for  direction,  said  that  he  had  no  hesitation  as 
to  the  course  they  should  take,  that  he  approved  heartily  of  the 
manner  in  which  their  ministers  had  contended  for  the  liberty 
with  which  Christ  had  made  His  people  free,  and  prayed  that 
grace  might  be  given  them  to  persevere,  and  cast  their  burden 
upou  the  Lord,  who  would  not  fail  them  in  the  day  of  trial. 
He  blessed  God  that  they  had  been  privileged  to  witness  for  His 
cause,  and  pitied  the  poor  Moderates  who,  like  Esau,  had  sold 
their  birthright  for  their  stipend,  but  expected  no  better  of  them. 
He  cordially  adhered  to  the  Free  Protesting  Church  of  Scot- 
land, and  would  only  say,  Jehovah-jireh.  All  the  other  six 
elders  expressed  themselves  in  similar  terms,  and  without  the 
least  hesitation."  * 

It  must  be  admitted  that  there  were  cases  of  a  different  kind. 
Some  of  the  people  were  sorely  perplexed  by  the  movement. 
Speaking  of  the  farmers  generally  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Flisk, 
Mr.  Taylor  remarks  :  "  The  Disruption  was  to  them  a  mystery. 
It  seemed  in  their  eyes  madness  that  men  should  give  up 
temporal  advantages,  glebes,  and  stipends,  when  no  man  was 
touching  them,  and  when  we  could  preach  what  we  chose  with- 
out interference.  A  Flisk  farmer  speaking  to  a  friend  of  mine 
about  the  folly  of  my  leaving  the  Establishment,  my  friend  said 
that  it  was  right  that  I  should  follow  the  light  and  guidance  of 
my  own  conscience.  *  Conscience !  conscience ! '  said  the  farmer, 
'it's  a  puir  conscience  that'll  no  rax '  [stretch].*!- 

A  second  story  from  Dunbog  sets  tlie  matter  in  a  similar 
light.  "  A  month  or  two  after  the  Disruption,  a  Moderate 
farmer,  in  a  parish  whose  minister  had  remained  faithful  to 
Christ,  was  making  some  inquiry  as  to  how  his  former  mmister 
was  getting  on,  and,  amongst  other  things,  was  told  in  reply,  he 
was  preaching  better  than  ever.  'Indeed  !  well,  that  is  too  bad. 
He  had  a  good  stipend  with  us — was  well  paid  for  preaching 
— and  if  he  didn't  do  his  best  it  was  too  bad.     And  now, 

♦  Parker  Mss.,  Pres.  of  Latheron,  p.  4. 
t  Dis.  Mss.  xxxvii.  pp.  11,  12. 


EEASONS  FOE  GOING  OUT  GIVEN  BY  THE  PEOPLE.  165 

when  he  gets  less  for  it,  he  is  preaching  better.  It's  a  great 
shame.' "  * 

It  would  appear  that  some  of  those  who  remained  in  the 
Establishment  had  a  secret  consciousness  that  they  were  not 
following  the  path  of  duty  When  Mr.  Manson,  of  Fyvie,  on 
the  third  Sabbath  after  the  Disruption,  was  driving  in  his  gig 
to  the  barn  where  he  was  to  preach,  he  tells  us  :  "I  met  an  aged 
parishioner  wending  his  way  to  the  parish  church.  As  my  gig 
neared  him,  with  a  respectful  salutation,  and  apologising,  evi- 
dently under  deep  feeling,  he  laid  hold  of  the  bridle  reins  of  my 
horse,  and  looking  up  to  me,  said,  '  Turn,  Mr.  Manson,  turn.' 

*Ah,  no,  J ,'  I  remarked,  'it  is  you  that  should  turn.     My 

course  is  taken,  and  I  stated  the  grounds  of  it  to  you  in  the 
church  a  few  Sabbaths  ago.  'Well,'  was  the  reply,  'we  are 
maybe  nae  a'  richt ;  I  dinna  say  that  I  think  it,  but  couldna  ye 
jist  come  back  and  tak'  yer  place  amongst  us  again,  and  be  as 
Naaman  was,  when  he  bowed  himself  in  the  house  of  Eimmon, 
saying.  The  Lord  pardon  thy  servant  in  this  thing.' "  -f* 

Another  incident,  which  took  place  at  Muthill,  Perthshire, 
illustrates  the  same  truth  in  yet  more  striking  circumstances. 
"A  farmer,  a  man  advanced  in  life,  and  with  a  large  family,  had 
all  along  shown  an  enmity  to  us  of  an  almost  incredible  kind. 
His  wife  and  family  were  friendly  to  our  cause,  and  were  deter- 
mined at  all  hazards  to  join  us.  This  made  him  furious.  When 
any  of  his  family  failed  to  attend  the  parish  church  and  came  to 
ours  his  rage  knew  no  bounds.  He  was  a  man  of  very  violent 
temper,  and  he  spoke  and  acted  on  such  occasions  in  a  way  which 
made  his  neighbours  ashamed,  and  filled  them  with  alarm  for  the 
consequences.  Every  week  added  to  his  rage,  and  he  had  almost 
succeeded  by  sheer  violence  in  making  his  family  desert  the 
cause.  This  continued  for  three  months  or  so.  The  neighbours 
at  last  interfered,  but  only  made  matters  worse.  All  his  rage 
was,  however,  suddenly  and  remarkably  subdued.  One  day 
while  he  was  blasting  stones,  a  shot  exploded  in  his  very  face. 
He  was  dangerously  hurt,  his  eyes  almost  destroyed,  and  his 
face  fearfully  disfigured.     Almost  the  very  first  use  he  made 

*  Parker  Mss.,  Eev.  Mr.  Murray,  Dunbog. 
+  Tbid.  Rev.  ]\Ir.  Manson,  Fyvie. 


166  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

of  his  speech  was  to  assure  those  who  came  to  his  assistance 
that  he  would  never  speak  any  more  against  the  Pree  Church, 
and  never  object  to  his  family  attending  it.  Accordingly,  they 
have  had  full  liberty  and  peace  to  attend  ever  since."* 

There  were  many  who  hesitated  long  before  they  could  take 
the  step.  "  One  of  the  most  zealous  adherents  in  this  parish 
(Deskford),  desirous  of  persuading  as  many  as  he  could  to 
enlist  themselves  on  what  he  believed  to  be  the  Lord's  side, 
was  answered  by  some  of  them  that  they  would  wait  till  they 
saw.  He  replied  that  it  was  not  very  like  valiant  soldiers,  to 
lie  behind  a  dyke  and  leave  others  to  bear  the  brunt  of  the 
battle."  f 

At  Kilsyth,  on  the  morning  after  the  farewell  sermon  at  the 
Established  Church,  a  meeting  of  the  elders  and  friends  was  held 
at  seven  o'clock.  "About  forty  came.  After  joining  in  prayer 
and  praise,  various  resolutions  were  passed.  .  .  .  Previous  to 
this,  a  few  minntes  past  6  a.m.,  Matthew  Adam,  the  beadle,  who 
had  adhered  for  one  day  to  the  Establishment,  .  .  .  came  to 
the  manse,  declaring  that  he  had  stayed  in  too  long,  comparing 
himself  to  the  son  who  said  at  first,  '  I  will  not,'  but  afterward 
repented  and  went."  ^ 

In  the  midst  of  all  this,  however,  the  strongest  encourage- 
ments by  which,  under  God,  the  ministers  were  sustained,  was 
the  intelligent  support  of  so  many  of  the  best  of  their  people. 
Even  those  in  the  humblest  ranks  often  knew,  and  could  state 
in  few  words,  the  great  truths  that  were  contended  for ;  and  if 
the  mode  of  expression  was  sometimes  homely,  it  often  bore 
the  true  stamp  of  Scottish  character. 

Thus,  in  one  of  the  Ayrshire  parishes,  a  plain  man  settled 
the  controversy  in  a  simple  way :  "  Wha  would  think  o'  going 
to  the  Court  o'  Session  to  ask  the  way  o'  salvation  for  a  sinner, 
and  why  should  men  think  o'  going  to  that  Court  to  ask  how 
to  govern  Christ's  Church  ? "  § 

Dr.  A.  Bonar  records  a  statement  found  on  the  blank-leaf  of 
a  Bible,  belonging  to  a  poor  woman  in  Collace,  who  had  borne 
more  bodily  pain  than  could  well  be  believed,  and  who  expected 

*  Dis.  Mss.  viii.  p.  11.  t  Tbid.  xv.  p.  9. 

X  Ibid.  xxix.  p.  35.  §  Ibid.  i.  p.  6. 


EEASONS  FOR  GOING  OUT  GIVEN  BY  THE  PEOPLE,  167 

soon  to  be  taken  to  Him  who  had  given  her  the  heart  to  love 
Him.  It  was  her  testimony  to  the  Crown-rights  of  Christ. 
"I  write  this  22nd  May,  1843,  after  a  long  time  of  extreme 
pain  and  sore  temptation,  out  of  a  full  heart,  feeling  the  love 
wherewith  the  Lord  has  loved  me.  It  was  on  Tuesday,  after  all 
the  beloved  servants  of  God  and  people  left  the  Established 
Church  of  Scotland,  because  the  laws  of  Christ  were  denied  in 
her.  So,  in  the  strength  of  Jesus,  I  desire  to  stand  by  my 
Father's  cause.  This  I  write  to  comfort  my  mother  when  I  am 
gone." 

Mr.  Robertson,  of  Gartly,  tells  of  a  poor  woman  in  his  con- 
gregation who  took  a  deep  interest  in  the  question.  "  When  a 
paper  was  being  sent  round  the  parish  for  ascertaining  the 
number  of  our  adherents,  she  said  she  would  sign  it  if  she  had 
a  hundred  hands."  -f 

"  William  Weir,  one  of  the  outgoing  elders  (Lesmahagow), 
who  was  very  frail  at  the  time  of  the  Disruption,  and  who  has 
since  been  removed  by  death  [1846],  was  pressed  to  remain  in 
the  Establishment  on  the  ground  that  his  days  could  not  be 
many.  He  replied,  '  It's  never  too  late  to  do  weel.  I  canna 
remain  in  the  house  when  my  Master  is  shut  out.' 

"  An  aged  widow,  a  warm  advocate  of  Moderatism  and  the 
Establishment,  called  on  one  of  my  elders  (Lesmahagow)  soon 
after  the  close  of  the  Assembly  of  1844.  She  remarked  to  him 
that  both  Assemblies  got  en  very  well — she  saw  no  difference 
between  theui.  He  said  he  thought  there  was  a  little  difference, 
for  in  the  old  Assembly,  when  any  difficulty  arose,  they  referred 
to  Lord  Aberdeen's  Act  to  see  what  it  said,  but  in  the  Free 
Assembly  they  referred  to  the  Word  of  God.  The  old  woman 
.  .  .  rose  abruptly,  and  left  the  house."  \ 

But  not  only  could  they  thus  express  their  views  in  brief  and 
homely  words,  they  could,  when  occasion  called  for  it,  argue 
the  question  at  length.  At  Ochiltree,  in  Ayrshire,  Mr.  Boyd, 
the  parish  minister,  saw  it  his  duty  to  remain  in  the  Establish- 
ment; and  after  doing  so,  he  complained  publicly  from  the 
pulpit,  and  afterwards  in  print,  that  so  many  of  his  people  had 

*  Dis.  Mss.  xxi.  p.  4.  +  Ibid.  xvii.  p.  7. 

X  Ibid.  xxxi.  p.  30. 


168  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

left  him  without  giving  their  reasons.  A  working  man,  Mr. 
John  Andrew,  a  hand-loom  weaver,  undertook  to  supply  the 
omission  in  name  of  himself  and  his  friends,  and  it  is  to  be 
hoped  that  the  parish  minister  was  pleased  with  the  result. 
His  letter  deserves  to  be  read  by  those  who  wish  to  judge 
■whether  the  common  people  of  Scotland  understood  the  ques- 
tion then  at  issue,  "You  are  right,  reverend  sir,  ...  in 
supposing  that  we  are  not  guided  by  any  personal  dislike  to 
you.  .  .  .  When  you  remember  that  we  always  cherished 
and  manifested  a  becoming  respect,  esteem,  and  affection  for 
you,  .  .  .  and  were  ever  ready  to  aid  and  assist  you  in  every 
Christian  enterprise,  you  cannot  but  be  convinced  that  we  are 
actuated  by  higher  than  personal  considerations.  .  .  . 

"You  speak  of  attempts  .  .  .  to  convert  your  peaceful  parish 
into  a  scene  of  strife  and  warfare.  We  recognise  no  such 
melancholy  state  of  things.  .  .  .  The  liberty  we  take  to  ourselves 
in  leaving  the  Church,  that  liberty  we  willingly  give  to  our 
brethren  who  stay  behind  us.  We  are  disposed  for  charity,  and 
are  willing  to  believe  their  motives  good,  and  if  they  act  on  the 
same  principle,  and  walk  in  the  same  spirit,  all  bitterness  .  .  . 
must  soon  die  away.  .  .  . 

"  In  speaking  of  yourself  as  a  minister  of  the  venerable  Church 
of  Scotland,  you  say  you  are  as  free,  unfettered,  and  independent 
as  ever.  .  .  .  The  assertion  seems  more  bold  than  true.  Pardon 
us,  reverend  sir,  if  we  say  we  do  not  believe  it.  .  .  .  We  know, 
indeed,  you  are  free  to  preach,  administer  the  sacraments, 
marry,  visit,  and  the  like.  These  are  parts  of  the  ministerial 
office,  with  the  liberties  of  which  the  State  has  not  as  yet  inter- 
fered. But  here  your  freedom  ends,  for  as  a  member  of  Pres- 
bytery in  the  settlement  of  ministers,  .  .  .  you  are  bound,  under 
pains  and  penalties,  to  act,  it  may  be  not  according  to  your  own 
conscientious  view,  but  according  to  the  independent  will  of  the 
patron,  and  the  determination  of  the  Civil  Courts,  and  to  place 
a  minister  not  only  against  the  conscientious  objections  of  the 
people,  but  against  the  conscientious  objections  of  the  Presbytery 
itself — a  state  of  things  diametrically  opposite  to  the  original 
liberties  of  the  Established  Kirk  of  Scotland,  subversive  of  our 
natural  birthright,  and  at  variance  with  the  Word  of  Almighty 


REASONS  FOR  GOING  OUT  GIVEN  BY  THE  PEOPLE.  169 

God.  .  .  .  The  plain,  unvarnished  truth  is,  that  by  the  late 
decisions  of  the  Civil  Courts,  .  .  .  the  freedom  and  indepen- 
dence, such  as  it  was  which  you  enjoyed  two  years  ago,  has 
been  totally  uprooted  and  taken  away.  .  .  .  The  State  has 
declared  itself  your  master,  without  a  check  or  limit  to  your 
servitude,  save  its  own  good  pleasure.  .  .  . 

"  And  now,  in  taking  farewell  of  you,  reverend  sir,  permit  us 
to  entreat  you  to  reconsider  the  subject,  .  .  .  We  can  and  we  do 
appreciate  your  good  qualities  as  well  as  others,  and  sorry  would 
we  be  to  say  one  word  unnecessarily  to  wound  your  feelings.  .  .  . 
May  the  God  of  love  and  peace,  who  brought  again  from  the  dead 
our  Lord  and  Saviour  Jesus  Christ,  that  great  Shepherd  of  the 
sheep,  make  you  perfect  in  every  good  work ;  .  .  .  and  may 
He  promote  between  us  and  our  brethren  who  remain  under 
your  care  the  spirit  of  love  and  goodwill."  * 

The  earnestness,  indeed,  with  which  the  people  made  the 
cause  their  own  is  seen  especially  in  those  parishes  where,  as  in 
Ochiltree,  the  ministers  remained  in  the  Establishment.  We 
give  one  of  these  cases  in  full  detail,  in  order  to  illustrate  the 
way  in  which  the  matter  was  conducted  when  in  the  hands  of 
the  laity. 

At  Johnstone,  Renfrewshire,  it  is  stated  that  in  March,  1843, 
"  two  elders  from  Bridge-of-Weir,  Mr.  Gemmill,  teacher,  and 
Dr.  Munro,  along  with  two  elders  from  Paisley,  Mr.  Archibald 
Gardner,  writer  [and  Mr.  Archibald  Hodge,  banker],  met  by 
agreement  in  Johnstone,  in  the  shop  of  Mr.  Archibald  Watson, 
along  with  four  Johnstonians,  Messrs.  Nesbit"  Thomson,  baker ; 
John  Maxton,  joiner ;  James  Laird,  boot  and  shoemaker ; 
and  Mr.  Archibald  Watson,  boot  and  shoemaker,  tenant  of 
the  place  of  meeting.  At  this  meeting  steps  were  taken 
for  diffusing  information  on  the  Church  question  through- 
out the  town  and  neighbourhood.  Mr.  Alex.  Steel,  minister 
of  the  Free  Church  at  Dairy,  and  then  a  preacher,  had 
a  school  in  Quarrelton,  beside  Johnstone.  The  second  meeting 
of  the  committee  was  held  in  it.  The  original  committee,  joined 
by  Messrs.  Joseph  Laird,  teacher ;  Robert  M'Nair,  spinner ; 

*  Farewell  Address  of  the  Free  Presbyterians  of  Ochiltree  to  the  Rev. 
James  Boyd,  their  late  Pastor. 


170  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

Mr.  Eichard  Gardner,  and  others,  was  very  active.  They 
obtained  parties  to  lecture  on  the  subject.  .  .  .  The  town  was 
divided  into  districts,  and  carefully  visited,  when  it  was  found  that 
about  140  expressed  their  intention  to  leave  the  Establishment 
unless  the  demands  of  the  Church  were  granted  by  Government." 
•  At  the  first  meeting  of  the  Free  Church  Presbytery,  the  Court 
was  induced  to  take  Johnstone  under  its  fostering  charge. 
"  A  hair  in  M'Dowall  street  was  obtained  as  a  place  of  worship 
for  the  infant  congregation,  in  which  it  regularly  worshipped  for 
about  two  years.  The  Eev.  Mr.  Makellar,  son  of  the  Rev.  Dr. 
Makellar,  of  Pencaitland,  was  sent  to  labour  in  Johnstone,  and 
there  he  laboured  faithfully  and  diligently  for  about  two  months. 
.  .  .  Shortly  after  my  induction,  a  church  was  built  on  a  favour- 
able site,  granted  free  of  feu-duty  by  Mr.  Graham,  of  Fernese. 
The  opening  collection  amounted  to  £103,  a  large  collection  for 
a  few  poor  people,  and  the  largest  ever  made  in  Johnstone.  A 
certain  party  would  not  believe  we  had  made  such  a  collection,  and 
unserved  some  of  us  had  put  the  greater  part  of  it  in  the  plate  in 
order  to  make  a  show,  and  had  had  it  returned  on  Monday 
morning.  I  said  the  Free  Church  knew  better  than  to  return 
what  was  given  to  her.  The  Johnstone  Free  Church  cost  about 
£1100,  but  it  had  subsequently  to  be  repaired  at  an  expense  of 
£500.  In  three  years  there  were  250  members  and  120 
adherents."  * 

Nothing  was  more  touching  in  all  that  time  than  the  zeal 
and  self-sacrifice  with  which  even  the  poorest  of  the  people  threw 
themselves  into  the  work — widows,  in  many  instances,  casting 
their  mite  into  the  treasury  unasked.  Three  of  the  cases 
recorded  in  the  Disruption  Mss.  will  show  the  kind  of  spirit 
which  pervaded  the  country. 

At  Deskford,  Mr.  Junes  remarks  :  "  Some  of  my  congrega- 
tion, who  are  very  poor,  must,  I  am  sure,  exercise  no  inconsider- 
able degree  of  self-denial  to  enable  them  to  contribute  as  they 
do.  I  may  here  mention  a  small  anecdote  of  one  of  them  who, 
though  in  very  sober  circumstances,  values  herself  not  a  little 
on  her  being  of  the  same  family  with  the  great  and  good 
Samuel  Rutherford.  When  the  time  of  the  Disruption  was 
*  Dis.  Mss.  xlii. 


REASONS  FOR  GOING  OUT  GIVEN  BY  THE  PEOPLE.  171 

drawing  nigh,  .  .  .  she  called  one  morning  upon  one  of  my 
elders,  and  put  into  his  hands  a  crown  piece  (5s.),  saying, 
'  There,  tak'  this,  John ;  I  have  been  makin'  an  eedol  o't 
[making  an  idol  of  it].  That's  hansel  to  your  new  kirk.'  .  .  . 
It  is  almost  unnecessary  to  say  she  has  been  contributing  since 
with  distinguished  liberality  in  proportion  to  her  means — 
giving  very  much  in  the  spirit  of  her  who  gave  her  two  mites ; 
and  she  says  she  was  never  better  off  than  since  she  has  been 
doing  so.'  * 

Mr.  Murray,  at  Newburgh,  in  Pife,  says :  "  Margaret 

was  a  saving,  thrifty  woman.  As  her  former  minister  was  a 
Moderate,  and  she  rarely  ever  saw  a  newspaper,  she  knew 
nothing  of  the  Disruption  till  it  took  place ;  but  when  it  came 
it  stirred  her  whole  soul,  and,  as  in  many  other  cases,  it  opened 
her  heart.  Her  new  minister,  having  recently  come  to  her 
neighbourhood,  knew  at  first  but  little  of  her.  One  day  he  saw 
an  elderly  woman  without  her  bonnet,  with  a  white  cap  and  a 
black  ribbon  round  it,  coming  towards  his  house.  She  had 
her  apron  drawn  together  as  if  containing  something  rather 
heavy.  He  could  not  guess  what  her  errand  would  be.  On 
sitting  down,  she  opened  out  her  apron,  and  there  were  twenty 
pounds,  seven  in  one-pound  notes  and  thirteen  in  silver — the 
gatherings  of  many  a  day's,  or  rather  of  many  a  year's,  winding 
of  pirns — all  which  she  now  offered  to  the  Lord,  to  be  divided 
among  the  schemes  of  the  Church.     It  was  all  her  living."  -f- 

At  Dundee,  Mr.  Lewis,  after  mentioning  some  of  the  higher 
contributions,  states :  "  The  largest  in  the  eye  of  Christ  was 
one  offered  by  an  aged  woman,  little  removed  from  pauperism, 
who,  at  one  of  my  ministerial  visits,  produced  from  its  many 
wrappings  a  piece  of  gold  which  she  had  received  recently  from 
America.  I  thought  to  refuse  it,  but  remembered  that  Christ 
would  not  have  denied  her  the  pleasure  of  contributing  to  His 
cause  out  of  her  poverty,  '  more  than  they  all.'  Her  name 
— the  only  one  by  which  she  was  known  in  the  congregation — 
was' Betty.'"  + 

*  Dis.  Ms8.  XV.  p.  5. 

+  Parker  Mss.,  Mr.  Murray,  of  Newbur>rh. 
X  Ibid.  Rev.  G.  Lewis,  Dundee,  p.  18. 


172 


ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 


It  was  thus  that  people  of  all  ranks,  rich  and  poor,  showed 
their  earnestness  on  behalf  of  the  cause  which  they  had  at 
heart ;  and  when  this  spirit  was  abroad  there  was  little  cause 
to  wonder  at  the  way  in  which  the  money  was  provided. 
Already,  in  February,  1843 — three  months  before  the  Disrup- 
tion— Dr.  Chalmers  speaks  of  it  as  coming  in  "  like  a  set  rain 
at  the  rate  of  a  thousand  pounds  a-day."  * 

*  Witness  Newspaper,  18th  February,  1843. 


A  CONFIRMATION.  IVS 


XVIII.    A  Confirmation. 

One  of  the  most  striking  confirmations  of  Free  Church  prin- 
ciples was  given  in  1843  by  the  General  Assembly  of  the 
Establishment  itself.  On  the  18th  May,  as  we  saw.  Dr.  Welsh 
read  from  the  chair  a  solemn  Protest,  formally  stating  the 
grounds  on  which  the  constitution  of  the  Establishment  was 
held  to  have  been  fatally  vitiated.  "When  in  the  act  of  retiring, 
he  laid  that  Protest  on  the  table,  and  left  it  lying  openly  there 
for  aU  who  remained  behind  to  answer  it  if  they  could. 

To  do  the  Moderate  party  justice,  the  challenge  was  accepted 
bravely  enough.  "When  they  found  themselves  masters  of  the 
situation,  and  had  taken  the  Established  Church  into  their 
hands,  Dr.  Cook,  their  leader,  brought  the  subject  formally 
before  the  House.  "  It  will  be  proper,"  he  said,  "  that  an 
examination  of  the  minutest  kind  should  be  made  of  this 
Protest,  that  a  formal  answer  to  it  should  be  drawn  up,  which 
should  be  widely  circulated  through  the  country."  A  committee 
of  Assembly  was  accordingly  appointed,  who,  no  doubt,  after 
doing  their  best,  reported  to  a  subsequent  diet.  It  appeared 
that  three  separate  forms  of  answer  had  been  prepared,  but 
after  due  consideration,  the  House  had  no  difficulty  in  coming 
to  a  unanimous  decision  :    These  answers  would  not  do. 

On  this,  Mr.  Robertson,  of  Ellon,  afterwards  Professor  Robert- 
son, of  Edinburgh,  proposed  a  resolution  (a  most  reasonable 
one  in  the  circumstances),  to  the  effect  that  "  a  paper  so  im- 
portant as  the  Protest  under  consideration  requires  to  be 
answered  with  greater  care,  and  with  fuller  leisure  for  mature 
deliberation,  than  it  was  found  possible  to  give  it  during  the 
pressure  of  business,  that  the  General  Assembly  recommit  the 
whole  case  for  the  further  consideration  of  their  committee, 
and  instruct  them  accordingly  to  report  on  the  whole  case  to 


174  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 

the  Commission  in  August."  This  proposal  was  supported  by 
Dr.  Cook,  who  suggested  that  "the  best  wisdom  of  the  House" 
should  be  given  to  the  matter,  and  in  order  to  secure  this  the 
committee  was  enlarged. 

The  challenge,  then,  had  been  publicly  accepted,  and  the 
Established  Assembly  had  pledged  themselves  to  answer  the 
Protest.  Nearly  three  months  were  allowed  for  mature  delibera- 
tion, the  best  wisdom  of  the  House  was  engaged,  and  what  was 
the  result  ?  Will  it  he  believed  that  the  whole  ended  in  failure  ? 
The  more  the  committee  looked  at  the  Protest,  the  less  they 
seem  to  have  liked  it.  The  appointed  time  came,  the  meeting 
of  Commission  in  August  was  duly  held,  other  business  was 
disposed  of,  and  a  separate  diet  was  fixed  for  hearing  the  answer 
to  the  Protest.  But  no  House  was  made,  and  nothing  more 
was  ever  heard  of  the  subject,  either  in  the  Commission  or  the 
Assembly.  After  bravely  pledging  themselves  to  frame  a  reply 
which  was  to  be  "  circulated  widely  through  the  country," 
engaging  "  the  best  wisdom  of  the  House,"  and  taking  time 
"for  mature  deliberation,"  the  whole  thing  collapsed.  Not 
even  the  strongest  supporters  of  the  Establishment  could  feel 
surprised  if,  in  these  circumstances,  men  very  generally  drew 
the  inference  that  THE  Protest  was  left  unanswered,  be- 
cause IT  WAS  FOUND  TO  BE  UNANSWERABLE. 

The  truth  is,  that  the  proceedings  of  that  Assembly  itself  in 
1843  had  made  it  an  exceedingly  awkward  thing  even  to 
attempt  an  answer.  It  would  never  have  done  to  go  before  the 
public  without  claiming  for  the  Established  Church  some  kind 
of  spiritual  independence  and  freedom.  But  there  lay  the 
difficulty.  The  Assembly  had  resolved  after  consideration 
not  to  repeal  the  Veto  Law,  not  to  rescind  the  Act  admittmg 
quoad  sacra  ministers,  nor  to  take  ofi"  the  sentence  of  deposition 
solemnly  pronounced  by  the  Church  on  the  ministers  of  Strath- 
bogie,  but  to  hold  that  all  this  had  been  effectually  done  for 
them  already  by  the  civil  judges — the  Court  of  Session.  If 
the  Church  had  herself  passed  a  rescissory  Act  there  might 
have  been  some  semblance  of  a  claim  to  spiritual  independence 
and  freedom — she  might  have  frankly  avowed  a  change  of 
opinion,  and  proceeded  herself  to  undo  what  had  been  done. 


A  CONFIRMATION.  175 

But  instead  of  this,  she  simply  abdicated  her  own  spiritual 
functions,  and  sat  down  at  the  feet  of  the  Court  of  Session. 
There  was  no  need  to  reverse  her  decisions — the  Civil  Courts 
had  reversed  them  for  her.  Everything  she  had  done  was 
null,  and  had  been  null  all  along,  because  the  civil  judges  so 
decreed.  Without  reserve,  the  Church  seemed  to  have  taken 
on  herself  the  badge  of  Erastian  servitude. 

What  made  all  this  the  more  serious  was  the  manifestly 
spiritual  nature  of  the  functions  so  surrendered.  The  case  of 
the  quoad  sacra  ministers  affected  the  power  of  a  pastor,  in 
conjunction  with  his  elders,  to  take  the  spiritual  oversight  of 
his  flock.  The  Auchterarder  and  other  cases  affected  the  for- 
mation of  the  pastoral  tie  by  the  sacred  act  of  ordination,  while 
the  cases  of  deposition  came  in  contact  with  one  of  the  most 
delicate  and  solemn  acts  in  the  whole  range  of  the  Church's 
sacred  functions.  If  the  Established  Church  gave  over  such 
matters  into  the  hands  of  the  Civil  Courts,  and  allowed  them 
THE  KiGHT  OF  EXPUNGING  her  Sentences,  was  it  not  plain  that 
her  whole  spiritual  independence  was  gone — she  had  yielded  up 
the  rule  and  discipline  of  Christ's  house  into  the  hands  of 
secular  judges. 

It  may  well  have  been  the  consciousness  of  this  which  formed 
the  real  difficulty — found  to  be  insuperable — in  the  way  of 
answering  the  Protest.  But  it  is  a  far  more  serious  considera- 
tion for  the  members  of  the  Establishment  that  the  whole 
series  of  these  precedents  have  been  so  homologated  that  they 
must  be  held  to  be  now  in  full  force,  and  to  have  settled  the 
constitution  of  the  Church  on  what  is  obviously  an  Erastian 
basis.  In  any  case,  it  must  be  allowed  that  the  members  of 
the  Eree  Church  have  had  good  reason  to  view  such  proceed- 
ings as  affording  a  signal  confirmation  of  the  soundness  of  the 
course  which  they  followed. 


176  ANNALS  OP  THE  DISEUPTION. 


XIX.  The  Dwellings  to  which  Ministees  Eetieed. 

One  great  trial  which  pressed  immediately  on  outgoing 
ministers  was  the  want  of  house  accommodation — "  a  place,"  as 
one  of  them  expresses  it,  "  where  to  lay  my  own  and  so  many 
other  heads  dear  to  me." 

In  the  larger  towns  this  was  easy,  though  even  there  the 
change  was  often  sufficiently  marked.  Dr.  M'Parlan,  of  Green- 
ock, had  held  a  conspicuous  place  in  the  counsels  of  the  Church 
ever  after  the  debate  on  Pluralities  in  1825.  So  early  as 
December,  1839,  he  made,  at  a  public  meeting,  the  remarkable 
declaration  :  "  It  has  pleased  God,  in  His  providence,  to  fill  me, 
as  far  as  stipend  is  concerned,  a  fuller  cup  than  has  fallen  to 
any  of  my  brethren  ;  but  this  I  say — and  I  say  it  advisedly,  so 
help  me  God — holding  the  views  I  entertain  on  the  subject, 
and  regarding  it  as  impossible  without  a  sacrifice  of  conscience 
to  submit  to  and  acquiesce  in  that  decree  to  which  I  have 
referred,  I  would  rather  cast  that  cup  to  the  ground  than  I 
would  taste  it  again,  embittered,  as  it  would  be,  if  I  were  to 
yield,  by  the  consciousness  of  having  deserted  what  I  believe  to 
be  my  duty  to  God  and  my  duty  to  the  Church." 

Accordingly,  at  the  Disruption,  he  made  the  sacrifice,  and 
his  friends  remarked  that  "he  seemed  as  one  relieved  of  a 
heavy  burden,  .  .  .  cheerful  and  happy."  He  left  the  spacious 
house  he  had,  and  retired  to  a  flat*  Those  who  had  seen  him 
in  his  former  residence  will  remember  how  bright  his  presence 
made  it,  but  all  who  had  intercourse  with  him  after  the  change 
will  testify  that  a  yet  fairer  sunshine  seemed  to  rest  on  his  new 
I'.ome,  as  if  more  than  ever  the  joy  of  the  Lord  was  his  strength. 

In  country  districts  the  trial  through  which  ministers  and 
*  Parker  Mss.,  Rev,  Dr.  M'Farlan. 


THE  DWELLINGS  TO  WHICH  MINISTERS  EETIEED.  177 

their  families  had  to  pass  was  often  of  a  kind  the  full  details  of 
which  will  never  be  told  on  earth.  The  few  examples  now  to  be 
given  may  serve  in  some  measure  to  show  what  was  going  on. 

When  Mr,  Lumsden,  of  Barry,  afterwards  Principal  Lums- 
den,  of  Aberdeen,  removed  from  the  manse,  he  had  to  retire  to 
a  labourer's  cottage.  Dr.  M'Donald,  of  Ferintosh,  the  most 
venerated  and  influential  minister  in  the  North  of  Scotland,  was 
not  allowed  to  remain  in  the  house  to  which  he  removed  after 
leaving  the  manse,  but  was  compelled,  along  with  his  family,  to 
occupy  a  small,  uncomfortable  cottage  in  the  neighbourhood.* 

So  long  as  health  was  not  affected,  such  changes  were 
accepted  with  all  cheerfulness.  Mr.  Innes,  of  Deskford,  states : 
"  My  experience  in  connection  with  the  change  has  not  been 
one  of  special  trial,  but  of  very  great  encouragement.  I  have 
felt  the  goodness  of  the  Lord  in  a  variety  of  respects,  both  to 
myself  and  to  those  in  whom  I  am  most  deeply  interested." 
He  makes  nothing  of  the  fact  which  he  afterwards  states 
incidentally,  that  "  the  accommodation  with  which  upon  leav- 
ing the  parish  manse  I  and  my  family  were  glad  to  put  up  was, 
on  account  of  its  meanness,  and  the  little  respectability  of  our 
neighbours,  made  the  subject  of  scorn  and  derision."  Nor  is 
he  troubled  by  the  fact  that,  in  his  old  age,  he  had  to  walk 
three  miles  to  the  barn  in  which  he  preached,  and  three  miles 
returning,  sometimes  having  to  do  this  twice  on  the  Sabbath. 
He  merely  adds,  "Through  the  Lord's  great  goodness,  I  have 
never,  from  the  state  of  the  weather,  nor  from  the  state  of  my 
health,  been  prevented  from  preaching  on  any  one  Sabbath,  and 
never  .  .  .  have  I  been  the  worse  for  doing  so,  though  I  be 
now  in  my  sixty-ninth  year,  and  have  a  delicate  frame  and 
constitution. "-[- 

At  Koslin,  near  Edinburgh,  the  circumstances  were  trying. 
After  occupying  for  eleven  years  a  very  comfortable  manse 
which  was  built  for  him,  the  minister  "  was  obliged  to  rent  two 
small  cottages  in  the  village  of  Eoslin,  having  been  decidedly 
refused  the  only  houses  in  the  vicinity  which  were  suitable, 
though  they  were  offered  to  be  let  to  the  general  public.  One 
of  the  two  cottages,  containing  a  single  apartment,  with  a  tiled 

♦  Paikor  Mas.,  Eev.  Dr.  M'Donald.  t  Dis,  ]\[ss.  xv.  pp.  7,  8. 


178  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISKUPTION. 

roof  and  an  earthen  floor,  the  minister  occupied  as  a  bedroom 
till  he  lost  his  health.  At  present  [1846]  that  room  is  occupied 
by  part  of  his  family,  who  retire  to  it  at  night  by  going  out  of 
the  door  of  the  one  cottage  and  into  the  door  of  the  other, 
there  being  no  internal  communication  between  them.  The 
floor  of  this  room  is  covered  by  a  piece  of  felt,  obtained  by  pur- 
chase from  a  neighbouring  paper-mill,  and  as  one  piece  becomes 
rotten  another  piece  is  procured.  Chairs  and  other  articles 
used  in  the  manse  are  hung  round  the  walls  of  the  room  some- 
what in  the  mode  of  a  broker's  warehouse,  the  two  cottages 
being  too  little  to  contain  the  furniture  in  the  usual  way.  As 
may  well  be  conceived,  the  valuable  furniture  which  was  in  the 
manse  has  been  much  deteriorated."* 

So  also  in  the  case  of  Mr.  Lamb,  of  Kirkmaiden.  "  Of  all 
the  incidents  of  1843,  none  produced  such  a  deep  and  general 
impression  on  the  minds  of  men  of  all  denominations  in  the 
district  as  the  demission  of  Mr.  Lamb.  His  family  were  deli- 
cate, and  himself  unfit  for  any  but  the  quietest  .  .  .  duties,  yet 
he  left  his  manse  for  a  comfortless  dwelling  with  a  loveable 
cheerfulness  equalled  only  by  the  gentleness  which  had  beauti- 
fied his  uncompromising  firmness  of  principle  during  the  whole 
course  of  the  Ten  Years'  Conflict."-f- 

In  some  cases  the  distance  to  which  men  were  forced  to 
remove  involved  much  trial,  and  in  others  it  is  believed  to  have 
sent  them  to  an  untimely  grave.  "  After  leaving  the  manse, 
Mr.  Aitken,  of  Dyke,  was  put  to  much  inconvenience.  .  .  .  He 
was  obliged  to  remove  to  the  town  of  Forres,  which  was  four 
miles  distant,  and  here  he  continued  for  ten  years.  The  visita- 
tion of  his  people  and  the  performance  of  public  duties  were 
the  occasion  of  much  labour  and  travelling,  both  by  day  and 
by  night." 

"  In  1852,  a  site  was  at  last  granted  by  Mr.  Brodie,  of 
Brodie,  and  a  manse  built  in  1853,  but  the  harassment  and 
fatigue  to  which  Mr.  Aitken  had  long  been  subjected  now 
began  to  tell  on  his  constitution,  and  in  1855  his  health  broke 
down.  ...  He  was  soon  completely  laid  aside. "j 

*  Dis.  Mss.  xiv.  p.  4.  t  Parker  Mss.,  Pres.  of  Stranraer. 

t  Tbid.  Pres.  of  Forres. 


THE  DWELLINGS  TO  "WHICH  MIKISTJCKS  KETIKED.  179 

Mr.  Roderick  M'Leod,  of  Skye,  writes,  in  1867 :  "  Perhaps 
Dr.  Candlish  may  still  remember  his  visit  to  Skye  with  the  late 
lamented  Dr.  Makellar,  when,  after  breakfasting  with  us  and 
looking  on  our  accommodation,  he  called  Dr.  Makellar  to  show 
him  a  curiosity,  .  .  .  the  small  dimensions  of  a  room  where  six 
or  seven  children  were  packed  together.  ...  To  the  discom- 
forts of  these  Sittings,  especially  the  first,  I  have  often  thought 
that  the  seeds  of  the  fell  disease  that  has  made  my  company  so 
desolate  were  mainly  to  be  traced."* 

The  Eev.  Thomas  Davidson,  of  Kilmalie,  Abertarff,  had  a 
still  harder  struggle.  After  leaving  the  manse,  he  had,  down 
to  May,  1844,  two  or  three  apartments  in  Annat  House,  but 
after  that  "  the  only  accommodation  he  could  obtain  was  a  hut 
twelve  feet  square  and  six  feet  high,  and  so  open  that  it  was 
necessary  by  means  of  blankets  and  bedcovers  to  stop  out  the 
wind  and  rain.  After  this  he  got  two  small  rooms  in  a  High- 
land ferry-house,  and  when  a  friend  came  to  visit  him,  he  was 
obliged  to  part  with  one  of  these,  and  his  wife  and  children 
slept  on  the  floor.  Even  this  accommodation  he  was  compelled 
to  surrender.  ...  In  March,  1847,  he  and  his  wife  paid  a  visit 
to  Glasgow,  chiefly  with  the  view  of  obtaining  medical  advice. 
Mrs.  Davidson's  case  was  one  in  which  medical  skill  was 
unavailing.  She  died  in  Glasgow,  on  the  24th  May,  '  another 
victim,'  says  her  husband,  '  to  the  cruel  oppression  of  the  site- 
refusing  proprietors  of  Scotland.'  "-f* 

In  those  parishes  where  the  land  was  in  the  hands  of  a  single 
hostile  proprietor,  the  difiiculties  were  much  enhanced.  In  the 
Presbytery  of  Arbroath,  the  first  Lord  Panmure  was  well  known 
as  a  site-refuser,  and  several  of  the  ministers  on  his  estates  were 
driven  to  live  at  a  distance.  Dr.  Wilson,  now  of  Dundee,  then 
at  Carmylie,  was  obliged  to  reside  about  seven  miles  from  the 
scene  of  his  labours,  "  at  an  old  farm-house,  given,"  as  he  states, 
"  rent  free,  through  the  generous  kindness  of  Mr.  David  Ander- 
son, Westhaven."  For  two  years  he  had  to  walk  those  seven 
miles  going  and  returning  in  the  discharge  of  his  duty. 

So  also  Mr.  Kirk,  of  Arbirlot — father  of  Dr.  Kirk,  surgeon  to 
the  expedition  of  Dr.  Livingstone,  and  now  Consul  at  Zanzibar — 

*  Parker  Mss.,  Pres.  of  Skye.  t  Ibid.  Pies,  ol'  Abertmil'. 


180  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

had  to  leave  his  parish  and  live  in  Arbroath.  On  the  31st 
December,  1846,  he  writes  :  "Another  year  has  gone.  Shall  I 
live  through  that  which  succeeds  ?  I  feel  myself  carried  for- 
ward to  the  first  rank — exposed  more,  as  it  were,  to  the  arrows 
of  death.  Three  yeai's  and  seven  months  have  elapsed  since  I 
left  the  manse.  I  have  walked  to  preach  the  Gospel  on  Sab- 
bath during  this  period  one  thousand  and  fifty-six  miles,  week- 
day duty  requiring  much  more.  I  have  thus  had,  in  three  and 
a-half  years,  to  walk  upwards  of  two  thousand  miles  to  do 
ministerial  work  ;  yet  I  may  set  up  my  Ebenezer."  The  follow- 
ing is  a  specimen  of  the  week-day  work  :  "  Spent  the  forenoon 
visiting  sick  ;  home  ;  left  at  four  to  attend  a  meeting  announced 
on  Sabbath  ;  the  night  damp  and  roads  bad.  After  the  people 
met,  a  storm  of  wind  and  rain  came  on.  In  a  lull  of  the  storm, 
set  ofiF  at  nine  to  return  home.  The  lull  was  short.  I  had  to 
brave  the  blast  from  the  sea,  cold  and  wet.  The  rain  pene- 
trated every  part  of  my  dress.  The  frost  still  bound  the  earth, 
which  refused  to  admit  a  drop  of  rain.  The  night  dark  :  came 
upon  a  large  body  of  navvies  ;  dashed  on  one  of  them,  then  on 
another.  Eeached  home  by  eleven  at  night,  in  a  state  of  weari- 
ness not  well  to  be  conceived."  Other  notices  of  excessive 
fatigue,  and  frequent  sickness  and  fainting,  follow ;  but  the 
work  goes  on  until,  in  February,  1847,  he  is  laid  up  with 
severe  illness — fainted.  His  reflections  were  at  this  time  very 
solemn.  After  years  of  such  exposure,  he  was  able  to  leave 
Arbroath  and  return  to  the  parish ;  but  it  was  with  broken 
health,  whicli  took  the  form  of  heart-complaint,  under  which  he 
became  gradually  weaker,  and  ultimately  sank  in  1858.* 

The  account  of  the  refusal  at  Shieldaie;  shows  the  feelino-s 
with  which  the  Free  Church  was  too  frequently  regarded.  At 
the  Disruption,  says  the  Eev.  Colin  Mackenzie,  "  the  whole 
pojnilation,  with  one  exception,  adhered  to  the  Free  Church 
and  to  my  ministry.  After  my  return  from  Edinburgh  in  June, 
1843,  I  did  not  preach  in  the  parish  church,  but  did  not,  like 
most  other  ministers,  quit  the  manse,  just  because  there  was  no 
house  of  any  kind  to  be  got  within  the  bounds  of  the  parish,  or 
within  many  miles  beyond  it,  to  which  I  could  remove  with, 
*  Parker  Mss.,  Pies,  of  Arbroath. 


THE  DWELLINGS  TO  WHICH  MINISTERS  RETIRED.  181 

my  aged  mother  and  other  two  members  of  my  family.  .  .  . 
Meantime  I  made  several  applications  to  the  proprietor  of 
Shieldaig,  ...  by  letter,  who  always  replied  with  a  positive 
refusal,  at  the  same  time  assuring  me  that  the  Free  Church 
would  get  no  footing  on  any  part  of  his  property.  Before  going 
south  to  the  General  Assembly,  which  met  at  Glasgow,  I  deter- 
mined to  make  one  more  attempt  to  obtain  a  site  by  applying 
to  him  personally  at  his  residence  at  Applecross  House,  hoping 
that,  from  the  intimate  and  friendly  terms  on  which  he  and  I 
always  were  from  boyhood,  that  on  my  own  account,  as  a  near 
relative,  he  might  consent.  On  the  contrary,  he  received  me 
coldly,  and  expressed  his  wonder  that  I  had  taken  upon  me  to 
call  upon  him,  and  expect  that  he  would  receive  me,  after  act- 
ing so  foolish  a  part  as  to  bring  myself  and  family  to  beggary 
at  the  very  time  when,  as  M.P.  for  the  county,  he  had  it  in  his 
power,  and  was  determined  to  promote  me  to  a  better  living ;  at 
the  same  time  giving  me  to  understand  that  he  would  not  only 
not  grant  my  request,  but  that  I  must  quit  the  manse  and 
remove  myself  from  the  parish  of  Shieldaig  and  from  his  estate, 
otherwise  he  would  make  my  life  bitter  to  me,  as  he  was  deter- 
mined to  interdict  all  his  tenants  from  giving  me  so  much  as 
one  apartment  in  any  of  their  poor  dwellings.  Perceiving  his 
hostile  feeling  towards  me,  I  got  up  to  get  quarters  for  the 
night  at  a  miserable  inn  not  far  from  the  mansion-house ;  but 
he  objected,  stating  that  I  should  have  Highland  hospitality  for 
the  night,  but  that  I  must  be  off  after  breakfast  next  morning, 
and  he  hoped  that  I  should  never  again  use  the  same  liberty  of 
calling  upon  him,  since  he  could  not  now  recognise  me  as  a 
minister,  nor  yet  as  an  old  friend."* 

But  of  all  such  cases  the  most  conspicuous  was  that  of  the 
Duke  of  Sutherland.  Mr,  Mackenzie,  of  Farr,  describes  the 
circumstances :  "  However  numerous  the  adherents,  yet  the 
people  were  poor,  and  in  a  state  of  dependence  as  tenants-at- 
will  and  cottars.  Against  them  there  was  a  powerful  Duke, 
supported  in  his  disapproval  of  the  Free  Church  by  his  array  of 
factors  and  agents,  the  minor  heritors  in  the  county,  and  all  the 
wealthy  sheep  and  corn-farmers,  who  acquired  fortunes  by  occu- 
*  Dis.  Mss.  xlvi.,  Rev.  C.  ^lackenzie,  Shieldaig. 


182  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

pying  the  lands  from  which  the  peasantry  had  been  expelled. 
...  I,  in  common  with  all  the  members  of  this  Presbytery 
who  adhered  to  the  Convocation  resolutions,  had  a  trial  before 
the  Disruption  as  to  our  fidelity.  It  was  stated,  soon  after  the 
Convocation,  by  one  of  the  Duke  of  Sutherland's  officials,  that 
should  our  resolutions  be  carried  into  effect,  not  an  inch  of 
ground  would  be  given  within  the  bounds  of  our  Presbytery 
whereon  to  build  a  church  and  manse.  ...  At  the  hour  of  the 
Disruption,  perhaps  in  no  county  in  Scotland  was  there  a  darker 
cloud  over  the  prospects  of  the  Free  Church."  * 

It  is  painful  to  tell  how  these  forebodings  of  trial  were 
realised.  The  account  of  the  two  Mackenzies,  of  Tongue — 
father  and  son — attracted  much  notice.  The  family  had  occupied 
the  manse,  a  very  beautiful  residence,  for  nearly  a  hundred  years. 
At  the  age  of  seventy-two  the  elder  Mr.  Mackenzie,  afflicted  with 
asthma,  had  to  leave  his  house  and  send  his  family  forty  miles 
away  to  Thurso,  because  the  only  accommodation  he  could  get 
for  himself  and  his  son  (his  assistant  and  successor)  was  a  room 
and  bed-closet  in  a  mean  cottage,  for  which  the  rent  was  four 
shillings  a-week.  In  these  circumstances  the  son  was  attacked 
by  fever,  and  both  died — the  father  on  the  30th  of  June,  and 
the  son  on  the  26th  July,  1845.  During  that  illness.  Dr. 
Guthrie,  of  Edinburgh  had  gone  to  see  them,  and  afterwards 
described  his  visit  in  an  address  to  the  General  Assembly. 

"  I  fancy  most  of  the  members  of  this  House  are  aware  that 
I  had  the  pain — the  exquisite  pain — and  I  must  at  the  same  time 
say,  the  very  high  privilege,  of  seeing  that  noble  father  and  his 
no  less  noble  son  witnessing,  under  the  most  affecting  circum 
stances,  a  good  and  blessed  confession.  I  shall  never  forget  to 
my  dying  day  the  scene  I  witnessed  at  the  manse  at  Tongue ; 
or  rather — I  forget  myself — in  a  mean,  at  least  a  humble 
cottage,  to  which  that  father  and  son  had  retired,  parting 
with  family,  rather  than  part  with  their  flock.  I  say,  I  will 
never  forget  this.  I  was  never  so  unmanned  by  any  sight  I 
ever  saw,  if  I  may  call  it  being  unmanned,  for  I  am  not  ashamed 
of  being  afiected  by  such  a  sight.  I  shall  not  venture  to 
describe  what  I  saw.  I  shall  only  say,  in  the  words  of  Scripture, 
*  Dis.  Mss.  XX.  pp.  5,  1 2. 


THE  DWELLINGS  TO  WHICH  MINISTERS  RETIKED.  183 

that  they  were  lovely  and  pleasant  in  their  lives,  and  in  their 
deaths  they  were  not  divided.  I  rise  to  bear  my  humble  testi- 
mony to  the  worth  of  these  men,  I  should  rather  say,  to  the 
worth  of  these  martyrs  for  those  great  principles  for  which  we 
abandoned  our  earthly  all.  They  lay  on  their  dying  beds  in 
peace.  Never  shall  I  forget  the  sight  of  that  venerable  old  man, 
a  man  who  would  have  adorned  any  church,  who  would  have 
adorned  any  society.  Never  shall  I  forget  seeing  him  in  his 
mean  cottage,  nature  exhausted,  buried  in  the  sleep  he  had  not 
tasted  the  livelong  night,  his  venerable  locks  streaming  over 
the  chair  where  he  was  sitting  asleep,  for  in  the  bed  he  could 
not  sleep.  I  went  up  to  him  and  intended  to  awake  him,  but 
thought  it  cruelty  to  do  so,  I  passed  him  over  and  over  again 
in  the  room,  and  still  he  slept  on,  and  after  seeing  his  son  lying 
in  an  adjoining  closet  on  a  fever-bed — a  son  that  had  never 
closed  his  eyes  all  the  night  long  either,  for  his  father's 
groans  were  like  daggers  in  his  heart — I  left  the  house,  and  the 
last  words  I  heard  that  son  say  on  this  earth  were  :  '  Mr.  Guthrie, 
this  is  hard  enough,  but  I  thank  God  I  do  not  lie  here  a  rene- 
gade. My  father's  conscience  and  mine  are  at  peace.'  Yes,  sir, 
they  are  now  at  peace,  both  of  them.  They  are  gone  to  the  place 
where  the  wicked  cease  from  troubling,  and  the  weary  are  at 
rest.  I  believe  that  the  memory  of  these  two  men  will  live  fresh 
in  the  minds  of  the  people  of  the  parish  of  Tongue  for  genera- 
tions yet  to  come."  * 

Another  of  these  sufferers  was  Mr.  Baird,  of  Cockburnspath. 
"  I  went  out  last  winter,"  says  Dr.  Guthrie,  "  and  found  him  in 
a  mean  cottage,  consisting  of  two  rooms — a  but  and  a  ben — 
with  a  cellar-like  closet  below,  and  a  garret  above.  Night  came 
on,  and  I  asked  where  I  was  to  sleep.  He  showed  me  a  closet. 
The  walls  were  damp  —  no  fire  could  be  put  in  it.  I  looked 
horrified  at  the  place,  but  there  was  no  better.  '  Now,'  said 
I,  '  Mr.  Baird,  where  are  you  to  sleep  ? '  '  Come,'  said  he, 
*  and  I  will  show  you.'  So  he  climbed  a  sort  of  trap-stair,  and 
got  up  to  the  garret,  and  there  was  the  minister's  study,  with  a 
chair,  a  table,  and  a  flock-bed.  A  few  inches  above  were  the 
slates  of  the  roof,  without  any  covering,  and  as  white  with  hoar- 
*  Parker  Mss.,  Pres.  of  Tongue. 


184  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISKUPTION. 

frost  within  as  they  were  white  with  snow  without.  When  he 
came  down  the  next  morning,  after  a  sleepless  night,  I  asked 
him  how  he  had  been,  and  he  told  me  that  he  had  never  closed 
an  eye  from  the  cold.  His  very  breath  on  the  blankets  was 
frozen  as  hard  as  the  ice  outside.  I  say  that  man  lies  in  a 
martyr's  grave."  * 

Hardly  less  painful  was  the  case  of  Mr.  M'Vean,  of  lona,  who 
was  exposed  to  many  hardships  after  leaving  the  manse.  First  he 
crossed  over  to  the  Mull  coast,  to  an  old  house,  which,  with  the 
exception  of  one  unoccupied  room,had  been  used  only  as  a  granary 
for  many  years.  It  proved  so  open  to  wind  and  cold,  that  all 
winter  there  was  illness  in  his  family,  and  after  the  death  of  one 
of  his  children  he  was  driven  to  seek  shelter  elsewhere.  The 
schoolmaster  in  lona  let  him  his  house,  but  was  so  severely 
handled  by  his  Presbytery  (Established  Church)  for  the  counte- 
nance shown  to  the  Free  Church  minister,  that  he  was  obliged 
to  give  Mr.  M'Vean  notice  to  quit.  Rather  than  remove  to 
Tobermory,  a  distance  of  forty-five  miles,  Mr.  M'Vean  took 
refuge  in  a  small  and  most  uncomfortable  hut.  It  was  there 
he  was  found  by  the  well-known  Dr.  Merle  D'Aubignd,  who 
could  not  refrain  from  tears  at  the  sight.  "  When  entering,"  he 
says  in  a  letter  to  Dr.  Chalmers,  "  one  of  the  miserable  huts  on 
the  shore,  I  heard  that  there,  almost  exposed  to  the  inclemency  of 
the  weather,  the  minister  and  his  family  had  taken  refuge.  .  .  . 
Then  I  better  understood  the  Free  Church.  I  better  under- 
stood the  devotion  and  the  sacrifice  of  so  many  of  your 
friends."  + 

These  trials  were  not  rendered  less  difficult  to  bear  when  one 
took  into  account  the  obvious  design  which  the  opponents  had 
in  view.  In  returning  from  the  fever-stricken  cottage  at  Tongue, 
Dr.  Guthrie  says,  "  I  confess  I  felt  my  corruption  rising."  But 
afterwards,  he  adds,  "  The  object  was  to  crush  the  minister — 
not  for  the  sake  of  injuring  him — God  forbid  that  I  should  say 
that — but  to  compel  him  to  leave  the  district,  that  thus  the 
flock  of  the  Free  Church  might  be  scattered."  It  was  the 
old  policy  of  the  persecuting  Stuarts  revived,  and  adapted  to 
modern  circumstances. 
*  Memoir  of  Dr.  Guthrie,  ii.  p.  89.         +  Parker  Mss.,  Rev.  Mr.  M'Vean. 


THE  DWELLINGS  TO  WHICH  MINISTERS  RETIRED.  185 

Were  ministers,  then,  to  be  driven  from  the  post  where  God 
had  set  them  ? 

An  old  military  officer,  Charles  Maitland  Christie,  Esq.  of 
Durie,  once  said,  in  the  General  Assembly :  "  You  are  aware, 
Moderator,  that  when  two  hostile  armies  come  into  the  vicinity 
of  each  other,  it  is  not  unusual  to  place  pickets  of  defence  in 
front  of  the  main  body.  ...  I,  sir,  have  had  the  honour  of 
being  placed  in  such  a  picket,  and  when  I  was  told  by  my 
commanding  officer  to  consider  it  not  as  a  picket  of  alarm,  but 
as  a  picket  of  defence,  I  felt  that  if  the  enemy  should  advance 
upon  that  picket  of  the  line,  it  would  be  my  duty  to  fight  there 
and  to  die  there."  *  It  was  with  something  of  this  feeling  that 
the  men  of  1843  prepared  to  face  the  hardships  of  the  positions 
in  which  God  had  placed  them.  How  much  they  were  prepared 
to  endure  rather  than  flinch  may  be  seen  from  the  above 
examples,  but  one  more  instance — painful  enough  in  some  of 
its  details — may  be  given,  to  show  how  hard  the  struggle 
sometimes  became. 

Mr.  Campbell,  the  minister  of  Berriedale,  in  Caithness,  relates 
his  experience :  "  We  sufiered  much  hardship  as  a  congrega- 
tion. We  could  not  get  sites  for  our  church  and  manse  for 
eleven  years.  .  .  .  The  teacher  and  myself  lived  in  a  most 
miserable  place.  The  people  would  not  dare  to  receive  us  into 
their  houses.  The  teacher,  therefore,  put  a  temporary  roof  upon 
the  ruin  of  an  old  cottage.  In  that  miserable  place  we  lived  for 
seven  years.  ...  If  there  were  heavy  rain  during  the  night,  there 
was  a  pool  of  water  before  my  bed  to  welcome  my  rising  in  the 
morning.  If  there  was  high  wind,  the  ashes  were  blown  up  in 
my  face.  The  wind  had  free  course  under  the  foundation,  the 
house  having  been  built  upon  a  heap  of  stones.  It  was  so  damp 
and  cold  that  I  had  to  wear  my  greatcoat  at  the  fireside.  I  felt, 
by  degrees,  that  my  life  was  in  danger.  My  feet  began  to  swell 
much  from  the  dampness  of  the  place.  ...  I  walked  about  a 
great  deal,  to  prevent  my  getting  worse,  if  possible.  One  night 
I  was  awakened  from  sleep  by  a  tremendous  noise  on  the  roof 
of  the  house,  very  like  the  noise  of  people  in  danger  of  ship- 
wreck on  the  sea-shore.  There  was  a  great  storm  of  wind. 
*  Ten  Years'  Conflict,  vol.  ii.  p.  175. 


186  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 

which  was  carrying  away  the  roof.  The  noise  was  made  by 
men,  who  came  together  to  keep  the  roof  on  the  house,  if  possible. 
They  raised  their  voices  to  the  highest  pitch,  the  wind  was  so 
high  that  they  could  not  otherwise  hear  each  other.  But,  in 
spite  of  all  their  exertions,  the  roof  was  carried  away,  and  the 
curtains  of  my  bed  had  enough  to  do  to  withstand  the  storm. 
They  have  been  more  than  once,  upon  other  occasions,  flapping 
about  me  like  the  sails  of  a  ship  in  a  storm. 

"Feeling  my  life  thus  exposed  to  danger,  I  set  about  building 
a  school-house  and  teacher's  dwelling-house — the  teacher's  house 
first.  We  entered  the  teacher's  house  before  it  was  plastered. 
We  had  to  remove  from  one  room  to  another  till  it  was  finished. 
It  was  very  damp  and  uncomfortable,  but  better  than  the  place 
we  were  in," 

These  trials  passed  away.  Twelve  years  after  the  Disruption 
saw  the  congregation  in  a  new  church  and  the  minister  in  a 
comfortable  manse.  Though  he  had  been  thus  successful  after 
a  fight  so  hard,  he  shows  little  disposition  to  take  credit  either 
for  his  trials  or  his  success.  "  We  are  apt,"  he  says,  "  to  com- 
plain of  our  trials  and  losses,  but  what  are  they  in  comparison 
with  those  of  the  first  preachers  of  the  Gospel?  We  have 
suffered  much,  yet  it  is  not  impossible  that  some  may  have 
suffered  as  much  for  His  sake,  and  have  forsaken  His  service 
at  last.  We  have  need  of  praying,  like  David,  *  Lord,  search  me, 
and  know  my  heart :  try  me,  and  know  my  thoughts.'  We 
have  need  of  the  operation  of  the  Holy  Spirit  to  number  us 
among  the  blessed."  * 

It  is  interesting  to  notice  how  calmly  many  of  the  sufferers 
were  prepared  to  make  the  best  of  the  circumstances  in  which 
they  were  placed.  One  of  the  most  beautiful  manses  in  the 
south  of  Scotland  was  that  at  Kuthwell,  formerly  referred  to. 
The  garden  and  all  the  grounds  round  the  house  and  church 
had  been  laid  out  in  exquisite  taste,  showing  not  a  few  objects 
of  singular  interest.  At  one  point  stood  the  far-famed  Runic 
cross,  which  Dr.  Duncan  had  restored  and  made  known  to 
archieologists,  while  at  another  there  had  been  built  into  the 
walls  of  a  garden-house  the  sandstone  slabs  from  Corncockle 
*  Parker  Mss.,  Pies,  of  Caithness. 


THE  DWELLINGS  TO  WHICH  MINISTERS  EETIEED.  187 

Moor,  showing  those  footprints  which,  at  their  first  discovery, 
had  startled  the  geological  world.  How  cheerfully  all  this  was 
left  by  the  old  minister,  we  have  already  seen.  At  first  the  diffi- 
culties in  the  way  of  obtaining  accommodation  had  been  great. 
"  At  last  the  heart  of  an  old  neighbour  was  inclined  to  offer 
shelter  to  her  old  minister ;  and  though  no  Free  Churchwoman 
herself,  Miss  Dickson  packed  herself  in  one  end  of  her  cottage, 
and  allowed  us  to  pay  a  rent  for  the  other ;  which  we  did 
thankfully,  though  the  accommodation  was  inconvenient  for  both 
parties."  After  a  time  this  arrangement  had  to  terminate. 
"We  used  to  console  each  other  by  saying  that  our  Father 
knew  we  could  not  in  our  climate  live  under  a  hedge.  We 
felt  much  at  a  loss,  and  having  looked  all  around  in  vain  for 
help,  we  committed  it  to  Him,  and  waited  for  direction.  We 
bad  promised  to  remove  on  the  1st  of  May.  It  wanted  four 
days  of  the  time,  and  was  Saturday  night.  Dr.  Duncan  was 
called  to  hear  the  will  of  an  old  lady  read,  whose  death  produced 
some  changes.  At  eight  o'clock  he  came  in  and  said,  '  We 
are  to  have  a  house  to  cover  us.  W.  B.  is  to  remove  into  the 
large  house,  and  on  Tuesday,  at  noon,  we  may  begin  to  clean 
his  cottage.'  I  do  not  stop  to  say  that  it  is  damp,  very  smoky, 
and  part  of  it  unceiled.  There  were  so  many  people  glad  for 
us,  and  we  ourselves  were  so  filled  with  thankfulness,  that  we 
seemed  to  have  found  a  palace.  We  saw  that  we  had  been 
left  to  the  last  moment,  that  we  might  discern  more  clearly 
the  hand  that  provided.  It  seemed  far  more  the  people's 
concern  than  our  first  removal.  They  came  and  cleaned  and 
scrubbed,  whitewashing  the  very  outside  of  the  cottage.  Then 
they  carried  furniture,  and  by  mid-day  on  the  1st  May,  we 
had  entered  our  new  resting-place.  No  one  of  all  who  helped 
us  on  that  occasion  would  receive  anything  for  their  labour. 
Indeed,  we  felt  that  this  little  event  of  the  cottage  drew  into 
exercise  more  faith  on  our  part  and  more  love  on  the  people's 
than  all  that  had  preceded  it.  The  only  pang  in  it  was  the 
parting  word  of  those  who  had  helped  us  with  such  a  free 
heart — *  Now,  we  hope  there  will  be  no  more  heard  of  removing 
to  Edinburgh.'  A  man  who  had  a  field  behind  our  house, 
without  saying  anything  about  it,  opened  his  hedge  and  put  in 


188  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

a  gate,  so  that  we  could  walk  in  a  very  pleasant  place,  and  often 
escaped  from  the  smoke  of  the  house  to  the  green  field,  with 
its  little  plots  of  wild  roses  and  honeysuckles  ;  and  there,  with 
our  books,  we  were  as  happy  as  we  could  have  been  in  the 
garden,  whose  every  graceful  nook  was  so  endeared  to  us."  * 

The  reader  may  feel  some  interest  in  comparing  this  nar- 
rative of  Mrs.  Duncan  with  the  account  of  another  observer  • 
"  Dr.  Henry  Duncan,  the  originator  of  savings  banks,  left  a 
manse  which  his  taste  during  forty  years  had  made  a  paradise. 
He  took  up  his  abode  in  a  labourer's  cottage  on  the  side  of  the 
turnpike  road  from  Dumfries  to  Carlisle.  It  contained  a  room, 
a  kitchen,  and  a  bed-closet.  Behind  it  lay  a  great  old  quarry, 
with  unsightly  rubbish  mounds,  and  deep  pools  of  water.  I 
saw  the  fine  old  gentleman  in  his  roadside  cottage  about  the 
year  1846.  He  entertained  his  company,  a  few  ministers  in 
the  neighbourhood,  with  the  polished  courtesy  of  the  old  school 
Dinner  over,  he  said,  'Will  you  go  into  the  drawing-room, 
gentlemen  V  His  guests,  puzzled  where  the  drawing-room 
could  be,  rose  and  followed  him.  Opening  the  back  door  of 
the  cottage,  *  My  drawing-room  is  the  great  drawing-room  of 
Nature,'  he  said.  We  stepped  out,  and  there  was  the  deserted 
quarry,  its  rubbish  mounds  all  planted  with  spruce  and  larch  ; 
winding  paths  led  among  them  ;  a  rustic  bridge  made  by  his 
own  hands  spanning  a  space  between  two  pools,  and  the  whole 
huge  deformity  transformed  into  beauty."  i*  He  said  to  his 
daughter  and  her  husband,  who  had  come  to  visit  him — Mr. 
Dodds,  of  Belhaven  :  "  They  talk  of  sacrifices  ;  I  never  can  feel 
that  I  have  made  any.  I  never  was  more  happy.  I  have  all 
that  my  necessities  require.  The  only  thing  that  would  have 
made  me  unhappy  would  have  been  to  act  contrary  to  con- 
science." 

There  is  yet  another  of  these  painful  cases  which  it  would  be 
improper  to  omit,  that  of  the  Eev.  Duncan  M'Gillivray,  of 
Lairg,  a  venerable  minister,  who  was  eighty  years  of  age  at  the 
Disruption.  The  only  house  in  the  parish  to  which  he  could 
retii'e  was  the  cottage  of  a  widowed  daughter,  the  use  of  which 

*  Dis.  Mss.  xvi.  pp.  9,  1 0. 
+  Life  of  Dr.  Cunningham,  p.  192.     Eev.  James  Mackenzie. 


THE  DWELLINGS  TO  WHICH  MINISTEKS  KETIEED.  189 

had  been  given  her  by  the  Duke  of  Sutherland.  The  week 
before  Mr.  M'Gillivray  left  the  manse,  Mr.  Gunn,  the  factor, 
called  for  Mrs.  Henderson,  and  gave  her  significant  hints  as  to 
the  inexpediency  of  her  father's  going  to  the  cottage.  At  last 
she  put  the  question  :  "  Do  you  mean,  Mr.  Gunn,  that  I  am 
not  to  admit  my  own  father  into  my  house  when  he  has  no 
other  place  to  go  to?"  His  answer  was:  "Just  that,  Mrs. 
Henderson ;"  and  her  reply  was,  that  so  long  as  she  was  there 
her  father  should  share  her  cottage.  Soon  after  he  came  to  be 
her  guest,  Mr.  Taylor,  the  Duke's  law-agent,  called  for  him, 
and  said  twice  and  very  significantly,  "  Mr.  M'Gillivray,  I  wish 
you  to  know  that  Mr.  Gunn  has  acquainted  me  that  you  have 
come  to  reside  here  without  his  permission."  Convinced  that 
the  Duke's  agents  had  resolved  to  get  rid  of  them,  and  dreading 
the  idea  of  being  ejected  in  winter,  both  father  and  daughter 
left,*  the  father  going  to  reside  with  his  sons — first  at  Dairsie, 
and  afterwards  at  Mains.  But  after  all  this,  he  would  allow  no 
one  to  make  much  of  his  trials.  "  I  have  no  difficulty  what- 
ever," he  said,  "  in  the  matter ;  I  see  clearly  that  Christ's  glory 
demands  the  sacrifice."  He  has  been  known  to  leave  the  room 
when  severe  remarks  were  made  in  his  hearing  against  the 
Duke  of  Sutherland.  Few  things  were  more  touching  than 
the  prayers  which  he  continued  to  offer  to  the  last  on  behalf  of 
that  nobleman,  and  there  is  reason  to  believe  that  in  his  case 
"  the  eff'ectual  fervent  prayer  of  the  righteous  man "  was  not 
off'ered  in  vain.  It  is  due  to  the  Duke  of  Sutherland  to  say 
that,  after  a  time,  his  feeling  changed,  and  sites  were  granted 
all  over  his  property. 

♦  For  fuller  details  see  Witness,  25th  October,  1843. 


190  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 


XX.  The  Advancement  of  Religion. 

It  is  impossible  to  close  the  first  part  of  these  annals  with- 
out referring  to  the  most  important  of  all  subjects  in  connection 
with  the  Church — the  advancement  of  vital  religion  in  the  land. 
We  have  seen  what  reason  there  is  to  believe  that  the  revival 
of  religion  prepared  the  way  for  the  Disruption;  but  one  is 
naturally  led  to  ask  whether  the  cause  did  not  suflFer  when 
the  controversy  fairly  broke  out.  For  ten  years  and  more, 
all  over  Scotland,  there  was  contention  everywhere.  Families 
were  divided,  children  at  school  took  sides,  bitter  pamphlets 
were  poured  forth  from  the  press,  the  whole  frame-work  of 
society  was  dislocated,  and  high  above  the  turmoil  were  heard 
the  voices  of  Scotland's  most  venerated  ministers,  engaged  in 
keen  debate.  In  such  an  atmosphere  as  this  would  not  the 
cause  of  vital  godliness  decay,  and  the  Christian  graces  them- 
selves languish  and  wither  ?  So  men  often  asked  reproachfully 
during  the  progress  of  the  conflict,  but  the  result  proved  far 
otherwise. 

That  the  alloy  of  human  infirmity  mingled  in  the  struggle 
none  were  so  ready  to  confess  as  the  controversialists  themselves, 
but  a  great  responsibility  had  been  put  into  their  hands,  and, 
Siuidst  difficulties  and  imperfections,  they  must  strive  faithfully 
to  uphold  the  cause  of  Christ.  Just  in  proportion  as  the 
consciousness  of  this  came  home  to  their  minds,  the  controversy 
was  safe.  "  The  ecclesiastical  turmoil,"  as  Dr.  Bonar  expresses 
it,  "  seemed  to  elevate,  not  to  depress ;  to  spiritualise,  not  to 
secularise." 

This  is  not  the  place  to  discuss  the  philosophy  of  such  a 
subject,  but  experience  everywhere  shows  that  the  Church  has 


THE  ADVANCEMENT  OF  RELIGION.  191 

far  more  to  dread  from  the  quiescent  indifference  of  peaceful 
worldly  times  than  from  the  shock  of  controversy  quickening 
the  intellectual  activities  of  men.  It  is  a  remarkable  fact 
that  the  most  deplorable  division  which  ever  rent  our  Pres- 
byterianism  was  coincident  with  the  time — from  1650  to 
1660 — when  the  Church  had  the  firmest  hold  on  all  classes 
of  the  people,  and  when  the  religion  and  morality  of 
the  country  rose  to  a  far  higher  level  than  ever  v^as  attained 
before  or  since.  A  contemporary  historian  states :  "I  verily 
believe  there  were  more  souls  converted  to  Christ  in  that  short 
period  of  time  than  in  any  season  since  the  Reformation,  though 
of  triple  its  duration.  Nor  were  there  ever  greater  purity  and 
plenty  of  the  means  of  grace.  ...  I  have  lived  many  years  in 
a  parish  where  I  never  heard  an  oath,  and  you  might  have 
ridden  many  miles  before  you  heard  any.  Also  you  could  not, 
for  a  great  part  of  the  country,  have  lodged  in  a  family  where  the 
Lord  was  not  worshipped.  .  .  .  Nobody  complained  more  of  our 
Church  government  than  our  taverners,  whose  ordinary  lamenta- 
tion was,  their  trade  was  broke,  people  were  become  so  sober."  * 
Such  were  the  results  wrought  out  among  the  Scottish  people 
by  our  Church  at  a  time  when,  from  the  highest  nobleman  to 
the  humblest  peasant,  she  had  the  whole  community  within 
her  pale.  A  lamentable  controversy,  indeed,  raged  within  her 
borders,  but  the  Gospel  did  its  blessed  work  none  the  less,  and 
with  this  outstanding  fact  in  our  Church's  history,  we  need  feel 
no  surprise  if  in  connection  with  the  ten  years'  conflict  there 
were  tokens  of  success  in  the  spiritual  field,  for  which  our 
Church  had  reason  to  give  thanks. 

There  was  one  thing,  at  least,  on  account  of  which  all  the  friends 
of  religion  might  well  be  grateful :  the  ministers  of  the  Convo- 
cation had  stood  true  to  their  pledges  in  the  day  of  trial.  The 
world  had  ridiculed  the  bare  idea  of  400  of  their  number  laying 
down  their  livings  for  conscience'  sake.  A  triumph  for  the 
cause  of  irreligion  was  confidently  expected  by  the  more  careless. 

*Kirkton's  History,  pp.  63,  64.  Attempts  have  been  made  to  cast 
doubt  on  these  statements  by  some  who  had  little  sympathy  with  Kirk- 
ton's  religious  views.  For  a  complete  vindication  of  his  accuracy  the 
reader  may  refer  to  a  pamphlet  by  the  Rev.  Dr.  Brown,  of  Langton. 
Letter  to  Dr.  Chalmers,  &c.,  1833. 


192  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 

After  all  the  loud  professions  of  the  Evangelical  party,  the  love 
of  stipend  was  expected  to  prevail,  pledges  would  be  cast  aside, 
some  back-door  would  be  found,  and  when  men  were  seen 
coming  down  from  the  high  ground  they  had  so  boldly  taken, 
the  world  was  prepared  with  its  scornful  laugh  to  greet  the 
•  ignominious  retreat.  One  of  the  English  judges,  on  being  told 
by  a  Scottish  M.P.  that  the  holder  of  the  richest  benefice  in 
Scotland  had  pledged  himself  to  resign  it,  replied,  with  a  sneer, 
"I  will  believe  it  when  I  see  it."  At  Perth,  "many  of  the 
worldly  and  ungodly  in  the  town  and  neighbourhood  were 
eagerly  watching  the  event,  and  had,  it  is  understood,  consider- 
able bets  depending  on  the  conduct  of  particular  ministers. 
When,  contrary  to  their  expectations,  the  Disruption  actually 
took  place  on  such  an  extensive  scale,  they  seemed  completely 
taken  by  surprise."  *  The  system  of  bets  on  the  result  is  said 
to  have  been  common  in  the  clubs  of  Edinburgh  and  else- 
where, and  the  surprise  felt  at  Perth  was  very  generally  shared 
in,  over  the  country.  When  the  news  of  the  Disruption  day 
reached  Glasgow,  and  was  announced  on  the  Exchange,  the 
usual  busy  hum  of  voices  suddenly  ceased,  and  silence  fell  on 
the  assembled  merchants.  For  a  brief  moment  the  reality  of 
Christian  principle  seemed  suddenly  to  reveal  itself  even  to  men 
of  the  world.  As  Mr.  Lewis  says  of  Dundee,  "  Even  those  most 
opposed  to  us  respected  our  courage  and  constancy."  It  was 
religion  itself  that  had  been  put  on  trial  in  the  persons  of  its 
most  zealous  professing  friends,  and  if  all  the  truth  could  be 
told  as  to  the  kind  of  talk  that  had  gone  on  in  those  clubs  and 
elsewhere  among  worldly  circles,  it  would  be  seen  how  great  a 
danger  had  been  escaped  from. 

"  If  we  had  failed  in  the  day  of  trial,"  says  Mr.  Thomson,  of 
Muckhart,  "  and  become  traitors  and  renegades,  infidelity  would, 
ere  long,  have  walked  triumphantly  through  the  length  and 
breadth  of  the  land."  Mr.  Mather,  of  Stanley,  tells  of  one  of 
those  ministers  who  had  turned  back  in  the  day  of  trial,  and 
who,  in  the  hearing  of  an  elder  of  the  United  Secession,  was 
railing  at  the  Eree  Church,  when  he  received  the  reply  :  "  Mr. 

■ ,  had  all  the  non-intrusion  ministers  acted  as  you   have 

*  Dis.  Mss.  iv.  p.  8. 


THE  ADVANCEMENT  OF  KELTGION.  193 

done,  a  greater  injury  would  have  been  done  to  the  interests  of 
religion  and  morality  than  could  have  been  repaired  by  a 
hundred  years'  preaching."  *  All  the  friends  of  our  common  faith 
in  all  the  churches  might  well  rejoice  that  the  sacrifice  which  had 
been  laid  on  the  altar  of  Christian  principle  had  at  least  taken 
away  this  ground  for  reproach.  "  There  is  something,"  says  Dr. 
Guthrie,  "  more  eloquent  than  speech.  I  am  bold  to  say  that 
Hall,  Foster,  or  Chalmers  never  preached  a  sermon  so  impressive 
or  sublime  as  the  humblest  minister  of  our  Church  did  on  the 
18th  of  May,  when  he  gave  up  his  living  to  retain  his  principles, 
and  joined  the  crowd  which,  bursting  from  the  doors  of  St. 
AndreAv's  Church,  with  Chalmers  at  its  head,  marched  out,  file 
by  file,  in  steady  ranks,  giving  God's  people  reason  to  weep 
tears,  not  of  grief,  but  of  joy."  -f* 

But  not  only  had  a  great  danger  been  escaped  from ;  a  new 
impulse  had  been  given  to  the  spiritual  work  of  the  Church — 
the  grand  object  for  which  she  exists  on  earth. 

One  signal  proof  of  this  was  the  spirit  of  prayer  which  showed 
itself  all  through  the  conflict.  Days  were  again  and  again  set  apart 
by  the  Church  in  which  her  people  were  invited  to  public  and 
private  prayer.  In  November,  1842,  for  example,  an  earnest 
appeal  was  widely  circulated,  calling  all  the  friends  of  the 
Church  to  "the  duty  of  pouring  out  their  hearts  to  God  in 
frequent  and  fervent  prayers,  in  the  view  of  the  approaching 
Convocation.  .  .  .  Let  those  occupying  a  private  station  in  the 
Church  bear  in  mind  that  as  Aaron  and  Hur  of  old  bore  up  the 
hands  of  Moses  while  Israel  was  contending  with  Amalek,  and 
as  the  people  in  the  wilderness  brought  to  the  service  of  the 
tabernacle  according  to  their  several  abilities,  ...  so  those  in 
the  most  retired  and  private  spheres  may,  by  prayer,  render  just 
as  real  and  essential  a  service  to  this  assembly  of  ministers  as 
those  who  shall  be  called  to  take  the  most  active  share  in  its 
proceedings." 

In  the  Disruption  Mss.  there  are  traces  of  how  these  appeals 

were  responded  to.     "  Looking  back  as  far  as  1839,  I  recollect 

that,  during  the  sitting  of  the  General  Assembly  that  year, 

there  was  a  more  than  ordinary  concern  manifest  in  all  our 

*  DLs.  Mss.  V.  p.  6  t  Life,  vol.  ii.  p.  59. 

0 


194  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 

\  i  public  and  private  religious  exercises  [at  Farr]  for  the  Divine 
blessing  and  presence  on  and  with  the  ministers  and  elders 
of  our  Church.  This  concern  was  increasing  during  the  years 
following.'  * 

"  A  little  before  my  leaving  to  attend  the  Convocation,  I  was 
-  much  impressed  with  an  ejaculatory  prayer  of  an  old  woman, 
who  had  been  long  bedrid,  whom  I  was  visiting  [in  Gartly].  I 
had  been  telling  her  where  and  for  what  purpose  I  was  going. 
The  poor  woman  raised  herself  as  well  as  she  could  in  her  bed, 
and  prayed  fervently  that  the  Lord  would  be  with  the  ministers 
who  were  to  assemble,  and  enable  them  to  stand  together  and 
be  faithful  to  Jesus,  the  Church's  only  Head  and  King."  -f* 

At  Tobermory,  in  the  Island  of  Mull,  the  parish  had  been 
under  "a  Moderate  ministry,  and  there  were  few  among  the 
people  who  truly  feared  God.  One  of  the  brightest  lights  of 
the  place  was  an  old  man,  a  weaver,  named  John  M'Innes.  He 
was  a  man  of  faith  and  prayer.  .  .  .  Previous  to  and  about  the 
time  of  the  Disruption,  he  was  known  often  to  spend  most  of  the 
night  in  prayer — literally  wrestling  till  the  breaking  of  the  day, 
that  the  Lord  would  give  grace  to  His  witnesses  to  be  faithful 
in  the  day  of  trial.  Some  time  before,  he  one  night  came  out  of 
his  closet  with  his  face  shining  with  joy.  He  said  he  firmly 
believed  that  at  no  distant  time  the  Lord  was  going  to  send  the 
Gospel  to  the  poor  Isle  of  Mull.  .  .  .  When  the  Disruption 
took  place,  the  people  seemed  instinctively  to  turn  to  M'Innes's 
house,  round  which,  the  first  Sabbath,  five  hundred  assembled  for 
admission.  Though  the  Church  which  I  saw  is  not  yet  opened, 
the  number  of  adherents  is  about  1000.  .  .  .  The  minister 
is  Mr.  M'Lean,  in  the  settlement  of  whom  in  the  place  old  John 
M'Innes's  prediction  has  been  eminently  fulfilled."  + 

"  I  think  about  this  time  [after  the  Convocation]  many  of  my 
people  [at  Errol]  as  well  as  myself  experienced  an  increased  spirit 
of  seriousness  and  prayer.  One  of  the  first  things  that  impressed 
them  very  deeply  in  this  way  was  the  circumstance  that  one  of 
my  co-presbyters,  while  assisting  at  the  communion,  which  took 
place   about   three  weeks  after  the    Convocation,  dwelt  very 

*  Dis.  Mss.  XX.  p.  1.  t  Ibid.  xvii.  p.  7. 

1  IMss.  by  W.  Dickson,  Esq.,  of  notes  taken  on  the  spot. 


THE  ADVANCEMENT  OF  RELIGION.  105 

largely  in  pra5^er  on  tlie  trial  that  was  coming  on  the  minister 
and  people,  and  represented  that  as  likely  to  be  the  last  time 
they  would  meet  together  in  that  j^lace  for  the  celebration  of 
that  solemnity.  Many,  as  well  as  the  parties  immediately  con- 
cerned, were  affected  by  the  way  in  which  that  brother  prayed 
for  sustaining  faith  to  the  writer  and  his  partner  in  life."  * 

"  My  soul  often  goes  out  at  the  throne  of  grace  on  behalf  of 
Larbert  and  Dunipace.  May  the  Disruption  be  more  blessed  to 
them  than  days  of  peace  \"  -f- 

These  extracts  may  serve  to  indicate  the  spirit  of  prayerful- 
ness  which  was  spreading  throughout  the  congregations  and 
among  the  ministers. 

Another  circumstance  no  less  deserving  of  notice  was  the  earnest 
preaching  of  the  Gospel,  and  the  way  in  which  ministers  were 
pressing  home  its  invitations.  Amid  the  heat  and  fervour  of  con- 
troversy men  seemed  to  grow  more  urgent,  and  the  very  events 
which  were  transpiring  were  dwelt  on  as  giving  impressiveness 
to  the  appeal.  We  see  this  in  the  address  written  by  Dr.  James 
Buchanan,  and  circulated  by  the  Convocation  among  the  people  of 
Scotland,  in  which,  after  arguing  the  public  questions  at  issue, 
they  urge  men  solemnly  to  consider  the  great  question  of  personal 
salvation.  "  Are  there  none  among  you  who  have  often  been 
solemnly  warned  to  flee  from  the  wrath  to  come,  and  affectionately 
invited  to  close  with  Christ,  who  are  still  living  without  Christ 
and  without  hope  in  the  world  ?  Are  there  none  who,  while 
the  throne  of  grace  has  been  at  all  times  accessible,  have  habitu- 
ally neglected  secret  prayer  ?  Are  there  none  of  your  houses 
in  which  there  is  no  domestic  altar  ?  .  .  .  A  season  of  trial  has 
often  been  a  time  of  reviving  from  the  presence  of  the  Lord ; 
and  it  is  our  hearts'  desire  and  prayer  for  you  that,  now  when 
the  clouds  are  gathering,  and  a  storm  seems  to  be  at  hand,  the 
careless  may  be  awakened  to  serious  thought,  and  may  be  found 
safe  in  the  ark  when  the  deluge  comes,  and  that  the  faithful 
may  be  strengthened  to  endure,  as  seeing  Him  who  is  invisible. 
.  .  .  In  contending  for  Christ's  crown  as  the  King  of  saints, 
and  your  right  to  serve  Him  as  Master  in  His  own  house, 
according  to  the  rule  of  His  Word,  see  that  you  obey  Christ  as 
*  Dis.  Mss.  xi.  p.  3.  +  Life  of  M'Cheyne,  p.  140. 


196  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 

your  Lord,  and  walk  worthy  of  the  vocation  wherewith  you  are 
called." 

In  a  similar  spirit,  ministers  in  their  own  parishes  availed 
themselves  of  the  opportunity,  and  we  give  two  examples  to 
show  how  this  was  done.  "It  is  pre-eminently  necessary,"  said 
Dr.  John  Bonar,  of  Larbert,  "  that  every  man  should  look  to 
his  own  saving  interest  in  Christ.  Have  we  such  an  interest  in 
Him  ?  Have  we  anything  in  Christ  really  possessed  which 
would  counterbalance  the  loss  of  the  earthly  things  which  are 
perilled  ?  Have  we  anything  in  religion  for  the  sake  of  which 
it  would  be  wise  to  suffer  the  loss  of  all  earthly  things  ?  He 
would  be  a  fool  to  throw  away  all  the  advantages  of  this  life  if 
he  had  nothing  after  all  in  the  life  to  come ;  but  he  would  be 
infinitely  worse  than  a  fool  who  would,  for  the  sake  of  the 
world,  sell  his  soul  or  betray  his  Saviour.  See  to  it,  then,  that 
you  gain  the  soul  and  hold  the  Saviour.  'I  bless  God,'  said 
James  Guthrie,  when  under  sentence  of  death  for  maintaining 
the  Headship  of  Christ,  '  I  die  not  as  a  fool  dieth.  I  know 
what  I  die  for,  and  I  know  it  is  worth  dying  for.'  See  that  ye 
know  what  ye  suffer  for,  and  how  much  it  is  worth  suffering 
for."* 

"  And  now,  my  dear  friends,  I  cannot  close  without  remem- 
bering that  God  appears  to  be  preparing,  by  the  solemn  move- 
ments of  His  providence,  for  a  process  of  sternest  sifting, 
when  those  of  you  who  are  Christians  by  mere  profession  will 
probably  be  separated  from  those  who  are  Christians  in  deed 
and  in  truth,  .  .  Let  me,  therefore,  urge  upon  you  all  the 
vast  and  infinite  importance  of  closing,  in  right  earnest,  with 
the  overtures  of  the  Gospel,  and  entering  with  the  Divine 
Redeemer  into  a  covenant  never  to  be  forgotten.  If  you  rest 
satisfied  with  anything  short  of  this,  it  is  not  for  a  moment  to 
be  supposed  that  you  can  stand  in  the  day  of  visitation  and 
trial."  t 

If  the  approach  of  the  Disruption,  however,  was  viewed  in 
this  light,  the  change,  when  it  actually  came,  brought  with  it  a 
new  and   far  more  serious  responsibility,  for  not  only  were 

*  Reasons  for  Religious  People,  &c.,  pp.  5,  6. 
t  Rev.  Mr.  Wallace,  of  Hawick,  Witne^f,  28th  December,  184iJ. 


THE  ADVANCEMENT  OF  EELIGION.  197 

parishes  and  whole  districts,  formerly  closed,  laid  open  to  the 
preaching  of  the  Gospel,  but  the  outgoing  ministers,  to    an 
extent  never  before  equalled,  had  the  ear  of  the  people,  who 
were  eager  and  longing  to  hear  the  Gospel  from  their  lips.     Of 
the   solemn   responsibility   arising   out   of  this,  Dr.   Candlish 
reminded  the  first  Assembly :  "  I  trust  we  have  now  made  up 
our  minds  to  look  only  to  the  great  prospects  hefore.  lis,  and 
have  dismissed  all  bitterness  and  lurath,  so  that  in  all  that  has 
occurred,  we  now  recognise,  not  the  instrumentality  of  man,  but 
the  doing  of  the  Lord.  .  .  .  We  have  cause  to  wonder  at  this 
condescension  of  the  Lord,  in  having  counted  us  worthy  to  bear 
such  a  testimony  before  Christendom.     But  let  us  now  address 
ourselves  to  the  work  on  hand.  ...  A  very  weighty  respon- 
sibility rests  on  us.     We  have  been  instrumental  throughout 
all  the  land  in  exciting  a  thirst  for  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel, 
and  if  now  we  shall  slack  our  exertions,  and  fold  our  hands,  and 
grow  weary,  unquestionably  we  shall  incur  the  heavy  responsi- 
bility of  leaving  the  fields  which  are  now  white  unto  the  harvest 
unreaped  and  ungathered.  .  .  .  What  remaineth  but  to  gird  up  the 
loins  of  our  mind,  to  watch  with  prayer,  labouring  to  win  souls 
unto  Christ,  and  coveting  nothing  as  a  recompense  for  all  the 
sacrifices  we  have  been  enabled  to  make,  but  that  ours  may  be  the 
gloriousreward  of  those  who  have  turned  many  to  righteousness."* 
Before  giving  examples  to  show  how  this  work  was  carried 
out,  there  is  one  circumstance  which  must  be  borne  in  mind,  if 
one  would  understand  the  situation — viz.,  the  line  of  distinction 
which  separated  between  the  Establishment  and  the  Free  Church. 
Nothing  connected  with  the  movement  was  more  obvious  than 
that,  as  a  general  rule,  the  more  earnest  and  spiritually-minded 
among  both  ministers  and  people  had  gone  to  form  the  Free 
Church.    The  consciousness  of  this,  as  may  be  seen  from  certain 
of  their  own  statements  recently  published,  weighed  heavily  on 
the  more  far-seeing  friends  of  the  Establishment.    It  was,  how- 
ever, only  what  might  have  been  expected  in  the  very  nature  of 
things.     Not  only  did  it  require  a  certain  degree  of  earnestness 
for  a  man  to  cast  in  his  lot  with  those  who  were  preparing  to 
share  the  sacrifices,  and  provide  for  the  support  of  the  outgoing 
*    Witness,  2.'5rcl  May,  1843. 


198 


ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 


ministers,  but  it  could  hardly  be  that  the  more  careless  members 
of  the  Church  could  feel  any  real  interest  in  the  Headship  of 
Christ,  or  in  His  crown-rights  as  Redeemer.  That  not  a  few  of 
those  who  adhered  to  the  Establishment  did  so  from  conscien- 
tious feelings  is  true,  but  the  mass  of  those  men  whose  religion 
was  a  mere  form  naturally  remained  where  they  got  all  they 
cared  for  without  trouble  or  sacrifice.  Some  of  the  anecdotes 
which  obtained  currency  in  the  country  show  what  the  popular 
impression  on  the  subject  was.  At  Carmylie,  "in  stormy 
weather,  during  the  winter  of  1844-45,  the  congregation  had 
to  leave  their  tent  and  worship  in  the  barn  of  Mr.  Kydd, 
farmer  at  Mains  of  Carmylie.  One  stormy  Sabbath,  when  the 
congregation  were  repairing  as  usual  to  the  barn,  the  congre- 
gation of  the  Establishment  were  also  on  their  way  to  the 
parish  church.  Some  of  the  members  of  the  difierent  congre- 
gations, accordingly,  met  and  crossed  each  other.  A  member 
of  the  Established  Church  thus  accosted  an  elder  of  the  Free 
Church,  '  Well,  John,  you  are  on  the  way  to  the  barn  to  get  a 
thrashing,'  alluding  to  the  reputed  severity  of  the  minister's 
preaching.  '  Na,  na,'  said  John,  '  the  thrashing  is  ower,  and 
we're  now  at  the  dichtin'  (winnowing).  D'ye  not  see  the  chaff 
blowing  down  yonder  ? '  pointing  to  the  Established  Church."  * 
In  this  case  the  love  of  repartee  had  something  to  do  with  the 
strength  of  the  statement,  but  similar  views  meet  us  in  the 
deliberately  expressed  opinions  of  ministers,  speaking  from  their 
own  experience.  "  There  were  exceptions,  certainly,"  says  Dr. 
Foote,  of  Aberdeen,  "some  going  with  us  who  had  not  given  any 
evidence  of  vital  religion,  and  some  remaining  behind,  of  whom 
better  things  might  have  been  expected  ;  but  the  division,  in 
the  main,  turned  out  just  as  I  looked  for."  -f- 

"  I  have  always  had  reason  to  conclude  that  those  who  came 
out  along  with  me  were,  with  very  few  exceptions,  the  most 
pious  and  godly  of  the  parish."  J 

"My  expectation  was,  that,  if  the  Disruption  should  take 
place,  a  very  considerable  part  of  my  congregation  would  re- 
main faithful.    There  was  much  prayer  among  them,  both  social 

*  Parker  Mss.,  Eev.  W.  Wilson,  Pres.  of  Arbroath. 
t  Dis.  Mss,  xxiv.  1  Ihid.  xii.  Cleisb. 


THE  ADVANCEMENT  OP  RELIGION.  199 

and  otherwise,  before  and  during  the  memorable  Assembly. 
.  .  .  The  praying  part  of  them  have  favourably  realised  my 
expectations."  * 

The  division  which  thus  took  place  was,  in  many  respects, 
painful,  yet  it  drew  the  more  devoted  followers  of  Christ  closer 
to  each  other,  and  inasmuch  as  the  communion  of  saints  is 
one  of  the  means  of  grace,  it  brought  with  it  spiritual  advantages 
which  both  ministers  and  people  were  not  slow  to  acknowledge. 
Mr.  Thomson,  of  Muckhart,  tells  how,  in  consequence  of  the 
Disruption,  "  a  very  great  and  decided  change  had  taken  place  in 
the  whole  aspect  of  the  congregation.  .  .  .  There  is  much  more 
of  cordial  and  kindly  interest  in  each  other.  I  have  got  much 
better  acquainted  with  them  than  I  did  for  the  ten  preceding 
years.  I  have  been  led,  from  greater  frankness  in  intercourse 
with  them,  to  believe  there  are  more  of  God's  people  among 
them  than  I  at  first  anticipated."*!- 

It  was  in  the  pastoral  work  itself  that  the  results  were 
most  visible  in  the  increasing  earnestness  both  of  preachers 
and  hearers,  the  greater  purity  of  communion,  and  the  new 
life  that  was  thrown  into  all  departments  of  Christian  work. 
The  following  extracts,  referring  to  different  districts  of  the 
country,  will  show  how  widely  the  impulse  was  felt. 

"  I  am  conscious,"  says  Dr.  Lorimer  [Glasgow],  "  speaking 
generally,  of  more  liberty  and  freedom,  both  in  prayer  and 
preaching.  .  .  .  There  is  more  lively  attention,  too,  on  the  part 
of  the  people  to  the  Word  preached.  More  than  one  has  assured 
me  that  my  entire  services  come  home  with  much  more  power 
to  the  heart  and  conscience  than  they  once  did.  Prom  time  to 
time  I  hear  of  cases  of  spiritual  good.  Among  the  believing 
members  of  my  flock  there  is  more  activity  and  prayer,  and 
greater  zeal  for  the  good  of  others.  This  is  particularly  apparent 
among  the  youth  of  both  sexes,  who  assemble  in  prayer  meet- 
ings, and  distribute  tracts,  and  teach  in  Sabbath  schools."  J 

"  I  have  no  hesitation  in  stating  that  the  Disruption  has  had 

a  most  beneficial  effect  on  the  minds  of  many  of  my  flock,  and 

especially  among  the  young.  ...  A  considerable  majority  of 

this  class  adhere  to  the  Free  Church,  and,  I  am  happy  to  say, 

*  Dis.  :Mbs.  XV.  t  Ibid,  xxviii.  p.  8.  X  md.  i.  p.  8. 


200  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

now  manifest  a;  much  livelier  interest  in  spiritual  things  than 
before.  The  institution  of  a  very  interesting  meeting,  for  re- 
ligious improvement  and  prayer,  on  the  morning  of  the  Lord's 
day,  has  been  the  result.  There  is,  likewise,  a  greater  readiness 
displayed  by  qualified  persons  to  act  as  Sabbath-school  teachers 
. — a  circumstance  which  gives  me  particular  delight.  Another 
pleasing  fruit  of  the  separation  has  been  a  spirit  of  sincere 
cordiality  among  my  people  as  a  congregation,  a  new  bond  of 
mutual  attachment  has  been  created,  which  promises  to  be  pro- 
ductive of  lasting  good." 

"  There  has  been  great  and  spiritual  concern  manifested  [at 
Ardoch],  and  much  greater  solemnity  in  hearing  the  Gospel  than 
before  the  Disruption,  especially  on  sacramental  occasions,  when 
the  sufferings  of  our  Lord  brought  nigh  made  His  people  forget 
their  own.  .  .  .  There  has  also  been  exhibited  much  greater 
union  of  heart  among  the  members  of  the  congregation."* 

"  The  cause  of  vital  godliness  has  been  promoted  by  the  Dis- 
ruption [Lesmahagow].  My  observation  leads  me  to  think  that, 
both  before  and  since  that  event,  more  attention  has  been  paid  to 
the  preaching  of  the  Gospel  from  Sabbath  to  Sabbath,  and  also 
to  the  duties  of  secret  and  family  religion.  Generally  speaking, 
a  deeper  interest  is  felt  in  spiritual  subjects;  but,  alas,  it  is 
still  with  us  the  day  of  small  things.  .  .  .  Oh  !  for  a  larger  out- 
pouring of  the  Spirit  of  God  to  water  the  weary  wilder n ess." -f- 

"  At  Humbie,  I  found  my  facilities  for  preaching  the  Gospel 
and  doing  good  among  the  people  increased  after  the  Disrup- 
tion. I  myself  felt  more  free  both  to  speak  and  to  act,  and  my 
people  were  more  willing  and  attentive.  Our  mutual  attach- 
ment was  also  increased  by  our  mutual  trials."  I 

At  Arbirlot,  Mr.  Kirk  preached  in  the  barn,  which  became 
his  church  ;  "  but  the  crowd  was  often  so  great  that  they  had  to 
remove  to  the  field,  which  was  no  great  hardship,  the  Sabbaths 
being  fine  that  summer  ;  and  the  warm  devotion  of  the  hearers, 
and  the  deep  impression  made,  caused  thankfulness  and  joy. 
Often  did  the  people  speak  of  the  good  they  got  at  that  time  ; 
several  have  dated  their  new  birth  from  that  period."  § 

*  Parker  Mss.,  Kintore,  p.  4.  t  Dis.  Mss.  xxxi.  p.  14. 

t  Ibid.  xiLxiii.  p.  8.  §  Parker  Mss.,  Pres.  of  Arbroath. 


THE  ADVANCEMENT  OF  RELIGION.  201 

"  The  people  in  general  [Muckliart]  seem  to  listen  to  the 
Word  with  much  more  earnestness.  Considerable  emotion  is 
from  time  to  time  manifested.  They  seem  much  more  alive 
to  the  realities  and  importance  of  religion.  .  .  .  Some,  appar- 
ently, have  been  awakened  for  the  first  time,  and  more 
quickening  and  life  imparted  to  those  previously  renewed."  * 

"  Since  the  Disruption  the  most  favourable  circumstances  in 
our  congregation  [CoUace]  have  been — the  visiting  of  their  dis- 
tricts by  the  elders  in  a  spiritual  manner,  and  the  much  purer 
exercise  of  discipline.  .  .  .  Three  months  after  the  Disruption 
one  of  the  most  intelligent,  but  most  careless,  lads  in  the  place, 
but  not  very  friendly  to  us,  was  the  subject  of  so  decided  a 
change  as  to  be  remarked  in  the  whole  neighbourhood.  He 
soon  found  joy  and  peace  in  believing,  and  has  proved  one  of 
our  steadiest  and  most  efficient  helps  in  the  deaconship."  -f* 

Dr.  Lorimer  states  that  "many  of  the  young  people  who 
applied  for  admission  to  the  Lord's  table  at  Bothwell,  in  the 
summer  of  1844,  when  I  resided  there  for  a  short  time,  and 
took  ecclesiastical  charge,  .  .  .  attributed  their  first  serious 
thoughts  of  religion  to  that  great  event  [the  Disruption],  and 
its  immediate  consequent  widespread  and  warm  gospel  preach- 

At  Luss,  in  Dumbartonshire,  it  is  said  that,  "  since  the  Dis- 
ruption there  have  been  some  awakenings.  Great  outward 
changes  have  taken  place  on  some  who  were  careless,  and  I  have 
reason  to  believe  that  several  have  been  converted.  .  .  .  There 
are  inquirers  after  truth  in  the  congregation  who  seem  to  have 
been  brought  into  a  state  of  concern  since  the  Disruption,  and 
who  confess  that  they  spent  sleepless  nights  thinking  over  it. 
In  reference  to  this  matter,  I  quote  again  from  Lady  Colquhoun: 
'A  great  change  since  the  event  is  manifest  in  the  spiritual 
concern  of  many,  and  the  conversion  of  some.  The  appearance 
of  the  congregation  is  also  most  encouraging,  from  the  apparent 
impression  under  the  Word  preached,  frequently  from  a  solemn 
silence.' "  § 

Of   the   work   in   the  Presbytery  of   Ayr,  Mr.  Grant  gives 

*  Dis.  Mss.  xxviii.  t  Ibid.  xxi.  p.  2. 

X  Ibid.  i.  p.  9.  §  Ibid.  xxx.  p.  6. 


202  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 

an  interesting  account : — "  The  months  that  followed  [the 
Disruption]  were  busy  months.  The  eleven  who  came  out 
undertook  to  supply  ordinances  in  thirty-three  charges.  It 
was  no  easy  task.  I  find  that  I  preached  on  an  average 
twenty  times  a-month.  My  brethren  were  equally  busy.  But 
two  things  combined  to  make  it  very  pleasant  work.  First, 
there  was  little  rain — Sabbath  seemed  invariably  to  be  calm 
and  sunshiny  ;  so  that  our  meeting  in  the  open  air  was  really 
more  pleasant  than  it  would  have  been  in  a  crowded  church. 
Secondly,  the  earnestness  with  which  the  people  listened  was 
most  remarkable.  I  have  now  lived  to  see  the  revival  of  1859 
and  the  religious  movement  of  1874.  I  cannot,  and  therefore  do 
not,  speak  of  other  localities ;  but  I  may  safely  say  that  in  Ayr 
the  earnestness  was  deeper  and  the  fruit  more  abundant  in  the 
summer  and  autumn  of  1843  than  during  any  part  of  my 
ministry.  It  was  not  merely  nor  mainly  a  time  of  ecclesias- 
tical controversy  about  Church  government,  but  especially  a 
ime  of  deep,  earnest,  and  widespread  spiritual  awakening.  As 
I  gazed  on  the  upturned  countenances  of  the  assembled  people, 
they  always  seemed  to  me  to  say,  '  Sir,  we  would  see  Jesus.' " 

Mr,  Taylor,  of  Flisk,  enumerates  the  spiritual  benefits  arising 
from  the  change  in  his  neighbourhood :  "  First,  we  got  free 
from  the  fellowship  of  many  in  the  ministry  with  whom  we  had 
little  sympathy.  .  .  .  Secondly,  we  saw  that  God  was  owning 
the  testimony  that  was  borne  to  the  mediatorial  glory  of  His 
Son  in  the  increased  earnestness  of  those  who  waited  on  our 
ministry,  and  in  bringing  out  the  distinction  which  it  is  ever 
salutary  to  maintain  betwixt  the  Church  and  the  world. 
Thirdly,  we  felt,  what  has  since  been  a  source  of  constant  satis- 
faction, that  we  did  not  provoke  Christ  to  blast  our  ministry  by 
a  deliberate  disowning  of  Him  in  His  kingly  office.  Probably 
there  was  no  one  feeling  which  more  effectually  constrained  me 
to  join  in  the  Disruption  movement  than  just  the  fear  that 
Christ  would  refuse  to  remember  me  among  His  servants  should 
I  have  followed  any  other  course.  And  what  I  have  since  seen, 
both  in  the  personal  and  ministerial  history  of  many  who  apos- 
tatised from  the  truth  and  their  own  professions,  has  shown  me 
that  the  fear  was  well  founded." 


THE  ADVANCEMENT  OF  RELIGION.  203 

In  reojard  to  the  actual  results  in  his  own  experience,  Mr. 
Taylor  goes  on  to  say  :  "  My  labours  lay  among  the  farmers,  and 
ploughmen,  and  villagers.  Amongst  these  God's  saving  grace 
was  effectually  put  forth  in  the  Disruption  year,  and  in  some  of 
the  years  which  immediately  followed.  It  is  true  that  things 
did  not  turn  out  as  I  expected  and  prayed  for.  My  hope  was 
that  there  would  be  some  marked  and  outwardly, recognisable 
work  of  grace,  some  visible  acknowledo;ment  from  God  of  the 
testimony  which,  as  a  Church,  we  were  endeavouring  to  bear  to 
His  glory.  Now  it  was  not  so  ;  and,  doubtless,  this  expectation 
was  my  infirmity.  The  great  scriptural  principle  was  literally 
fulfilled — the  kingdom  of  God  cometh  not  with  observation. 
There  was  a  measure  of  hearty  interest  among  the  people,  and 
hopefulness  in  connection  with  ordinances,  which  was  encourag- 
ing. But  it  was  years  afterwards  before  I  knew  of  cases  of 
conversion  which  had  really  taken  place  at  that  time. 

"  I  remember  well  the  first  intimation  I  got.  A  poor  plough- 
man, of  simple  mind  and  manner,  called  for  his  certificate.  He 
had  been  with  us  at  the  Disruption,  and  had  worshipped  with 
us  in  the  barn.  He  was  affected  at  parting,  and  he  said,  with 
much  feeling,  '  Sir,  the  Word  gripped  me  in  the  barn.'  One 
and  another  of  the  most  decided  of  the  people  have  spoken  to 
that  as  the  time  when  they  were  affected  by  spiritual  things  as 
they  had  never  been  before."* 

What  Mr.  Taylor  had  longed  to  see  in  Fife — a  marked  revival 
of  religion — took  place  in  the  Island  of  Skye,  simultaneously 
with  the  Disruption.  It  was  carefully  inquired  into  on  the  spot 
during  the  following  year,  by  W.  Dickson,  Esq.,  to  whom,  as 
Convener  of  the  Committee  on  Sabbath  Schools,  the  Church  is 
so  deeply  indebted.  Some  portions  of  his  notes  taken  at  the  time 
may  tend  to  show  the  reality  and  interesting  nature  of  the  work. 

"  The  awakening  first  began  in  Skye  about  the  month  of  April, 
1843,  at  Unish,  a  small  village  on  the  west  side  of  the  island, 
where  for  some  time  Norman  M'Leod,  an  old  soldier,  who  was 
present  at  the  landing  in  Egypt  under  Sir  Ralph  Abercrombie, 
had  been  stationed  in  the  service  of  the  Gaelic  School  Society. 

"  One  night  Norman  was  conducting  family  worship  in  a  cot- 
*  Dis.  Mss.  xxxvii.  part  2,  p.  9. 


204  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

tage.  As  was  frequently  the  case,  some  others  from  about  the 
doors  came  in  to  be  present.  Among  these  were  some  fishermen 
from  the  small  Island  of  Issay,  which  is  nearly  opposite  Unish, 
on  the  west  coast  of  Skye.  That  evening,  among  the  poor 
fishermen,  the  work  of  the  Lord  first  appeared.  Their  minds 
were  filled  with  anxiety  and  distress  about  their  souls.  For  two 
days  they  would  not  go  to  bed  at  all,  and  would  give  the  old 
man  no  r6st  from  speaking  to  them,  praying  with  them,  and 
reading  the  Bible.  Awakened  to  a  sense  of  eternal  realities, 
hearing  the  voice  which  called  the  fishermen  of  Galilee,  they  left 
their  nets  and  followed  Him.  They  would  not  rest,  day  nor 
night,  till  they  had  fled  from  the  wrath  to  come.  .  .  ." 

"  Shortly  after  the  awakening  began,  the  Eev.  Roderick 
M'Leod  came  from  Snizort  and  preached  at  Fairybridge,  at  a 
place  where  three  roads  met ;  and  continued  to  do  so  weekly 
for  a  long  while.  On  such  occasions  the  gatherings  were 
often  very  great ;  the  numbers  who  left  their  work  and  came 
to  hear  were  said  to  have  been  sometimes  from  five  to  nine 
thousand.  The  word  was  quick  and  powerful,  and  many  who 
seemed  to  feel  little  while  under  it,  were  struck  with  convic- 
tions on  their  way  home,  and  turned  aside  to  pray.  .  ,  .  One  "Wed- 
nesday he  preached  from  the  words,  *  Behold,  I  stand  at  the  door 
and  knock.'  On  this  occasion  the  presence  of  the  Spirit  of  God 
was  manifested  in  great  power.  Mr.  M'Leod  was  using  the 
words,  '  Oh  !  it  is  not  my  fear  that  Christ  will  not  accept  you,  but 
my  fear  is  that  you  will  not  accept  of  Christ/  when  the  cries  of 
the  people  were  such  that  his  voice  was  drowned,  and  he  had  to 
stop  speaking.  Some,  after  that  solemn  sermon,  refused  to 
remove  from  the  place.  When  their  friends  ofiered  to  take  them 
they  would  cry,  '  Oh  !  will  I  go  away  without  Christ  ?  will  I  go 
home  without  Christ  ? '  .  .  .  The  power  which  on  many  occa- 
sions about  this  time  attended  the  preaching  of  the  Word  at 
Fairybridge  was  overwhelming." 

After  mentioning  many  striking  cases  of  conversion  among  old 
and  young,  the  details  of  which,  as  well  as  all  the  facts  above 
stated,  were  noted  down  from  the  lips  of  the  Rev.  Roderick 
M'Leod,  the  catechists  and  elders  who  were  personally  engaged 
in  the  work,  and  which  give  reality  to  the  narrative,  Mr.  Dick- 


THE  ADVANCEMENT  OF  RELIGION.  205 

son  records  Mr.  M'Leod's  views  as  to  "  the  probable  ends  for 
which  the  Lord  had  at  this  time  made  such  wonderful  dis- 
plays of  His  power  in  the  awakening  and  conversion  of  sinners. 
He  said  that  two  views  in  particular  had  occurred  to  him. 
First,  that  it  was  for  the  awakening  of  the  Church  of  God,  so 
long  settling  on  her  lees,  to  a  new  and  realising  sense  of  the 
necessity  and  power  of  the  Spirit's  work,  and  quickening  her  to 
renewed  effort  and  diligence  for  the  conversion  of  perishing 
souls ;  and  secondly,  that  the  mouth  of  the  scoffer  and  infidel 
might  be  stopped,  and  the  Gospel  be  anew  established  in  evidence 
by  manifest  miracles  of  grace,  in  the  same  way  that  Christ 
at  first  established  its  truth  to  an  unbelieving  world  by  work- 
ing miracles  of  nature." 

"  It  was  matter  of  common  remark,"  Mr.  Dickson  adds,  "  both 
here  and  in  Eoss-shire,  that  wherever  any  one  previously  care- 
less became  awakened  to  concern  for  his  soul,  he  cast  in  his  lot 
with  the  ministers  and  people  of  the  Free  Church."  * 

From  these  extracts  the  reader  will  be  able  to  form  some  esti- 
mate of  the  kind  of  work  which  was  going  on  in  Scotland.  The 
year  of  the  Disruption  proved  to  be  a  great  time  of  evangelistic 
effort  in  all  parts  of  the  land,  and  the  Word  of  God  had  "  free 
course  "  to  the  awakening  of  sinners  and  quickening  of  believers. 
In  some  localities  the  work  was  more  quiet,  in  others  its  results 
were  more  openly  manifest,  but  everywhere  there  was  reason  to 
believe  that  God  in  no  common  measure  was  giving  "testimony 
to  the  word  of  His  grace,"  and  owning  His  servants  in  bringing 
sinners  to  Christ,  and  building  up  His  people  in  their  most  holy 
faith. 

It  was  not  in  vain,  then,  that  the  sacrifice  had  been  made  by 
the  Church,  and  the  testimony  borne  to  the  crown-rights  of  her 
Lord.  Those  tokens  of  success,  quietly  given  in  so  many  con- 
gregations, and  those  'showers  of  blessing,'  coming  down  in 
separate  localities,  were  a  rich  reward.  In  no  small  measure 
the  anticipations  of  Dr.  Duncan  were  realised.  "  Those  who 
valued  religion  and  religious  privileges,  would  go  out  along 
with  their  beloved  pastors,  and  rally  round  them  with  an 
interest  not  unlike  that  with  which  our  forefathers  followed 

*  Mss.  Not()3  of  Journey  to  Skye,  &c.,  in  1844,  by  W.  Dickson,  Esq. 


206 


ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 


their  persecuted'  ministers  to  the  retired  glen  and  the  wind- 
beaten  mountain-side.  Is  it  too  much  to  anticipate  as  a  cer- 
tain consequence  that,  while  the  virtues  and  graces  of  these 
true-hearted  men,  as  well  as  of  their  teachers,  would  be  strength- 
ened by  the"  sacrifices  which  they  made  for  the  sake  of  their 
adorable  Head,  a  spirit  would  by  the  blessing  of  God  be  awak- 
ened among  those  who  had  hitherto  cared  for  none  of  those 
things,  and,  cherished  by  Divine  grace,  would  spread,  as  it  did 
of  old,  till  its  blessed  influences  might  perhaps  be  felt  over  the 
whole  mass  of  society  ?  .  .  .  Among  Christ's  ministers,  indeed, 
the  event  would  doubtless  occasion  many  painful  privations,  and 
destroy  many  earthly  hopes,  but  it  would  shake  their  hearts 
more  loose  from  the  cherished  things  of  time,  and  give  them 
freer  scope  and  warmer  zeal  in  their  Master's  cause,  whilst 
among  their  people  it  would  light  a  new  and  more  holy  flame. 
.  .  .  Oh  !  would  not  this  repay  tenfold  our  privations  and  suffer- 
ings, while  it  afforded  a  new  proof  of  that  blessed  promise,  so 
incomprehensible  to  worldly  men,  that  those  who  leave  houses 
and  lands  and  all  that  is  dear  to  them  on  earth  for  the  sake  of 
Christ,  shall  obtain  even  of  blessings  in  the  present  life 
'  manifold  more '  than  they  have  abandoned,  as  well  as  what 
is  infinitely  more  valuable,  'life  everlasting  in  the  world  to 
come  ? '  "  * 

*  Lettei  from  the  Minister  of  Ruthwell  to  his  flock. 


part   M. 


The  Rebuilding— The  Sacrifices. 


¥ 


THK  SITUATTON  IN  JUNE,   1843.  207 


XXI.  The  Situation  in  June,  1843. 

The  Disruption  having  taken  place  under  the  circumstances 
already  described,  we  are  now  to  follow  the  Church  when,  no 
longer  aided  by  State  endowments,  she  suddenly  found  herself 
involved  in  all  the  difficulties  of  disestablishment.  Outwardly, 
in  the  view  of  the  world,  the  overthrow  had  been  complete. 
All  was  lost,  save  the  great  cause  for  which  she  had  contended, 
and  which  now  more  than  ever  she  was  bound  to  maintain  at 
the  cost  of  new  sacrifices  and  efforts.  It  was  not  long  till  these 
additional  demands  began  to  make  themselves  severely  felt. 
Before  two  months  had  passed,  hundreds  of  thousands  of  the 
Scottish  people  had  joined  her  communion ;  the  numbers  were 
increasing,  and  church-building  on  an  extensive  scale  was 
immediately  required.  Six  hundred  and  sixty-seven  ministers 
and  preachers  were  henceforth  dependent  on  the  contribu- 
tions of  the  people.  The  entire  staff  of  missions  to  Jew  and 
Gentile  must  be  sustained.  A  college  had  to  be  provided, 
where  Dr.  Chalmers  and  Dr.  Welsh  might  continue  their  labours 
in  training  students  of  divinity  for  the  service  of  the  Church. 
On  behalf  of  the  expelled  teachers,  and  for  other  reasons,  a  whole 
system  of  elementary  schools  was  seen  to  be  necessary.  It  soon 
appeared  that  manses  must  be  built,  for  it  was  impossible  to 
leave  ministers  and  their  families  in  such  dwellings  as  have  been 
described.  A  fund  was  also  needed  for  the  aged  and  infirm 
ministers,  and  another  for  the  widows  and  orphans  of  the 
manse ;  while,  to  meet  the  whole  of  these  and  other  similar 
requirements,  the  Church  had  absolutely  nothing  but  the 
free-will  ofiferings  of  her  people. 


208  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

If  men  could- have  paused  to  estimate  the  magnitude  of  such 
demands  coming  upon  a  portion  of  the  Scottish  people  hitherto 
little  accustomed  to  the  habit  of  giving,  the  enterprise  might 
well  have  seemed  utterly  hopeless.  But  there  was  no  time  to 
pause.  The  call  of  duty  was  plain.  These  things  had  to  be 
done,  and  men  felt  that  they  must  arise,  and  by  the  help  of 
God  meet  as  best  they  might  the  difficulties  of  the  crisis. 

Difficult  enough  certainly  the  struggle  would  have  proved 
even  if  the  hostility  of  the  Church's  adversaries  had  been 
appeased  and  had  given  way,  in  view  of  the  great  sacrifices  to 
which  she  had  submitted.  Unfortunately,  instead  of  being  left 
at  liberty  to  do  her  be&t  in  the  circumstances,  she  continued  for 
long  to  be  assailed  and  thwarted  by  formidable  opposition  from 
various  influential  quarters. 

It  is  not  desirable  after  so  many  years  to  reopen  the  full 
details  of  those  grievances  and  hardships,  but  it  is  obvious  that 
if  a  just  estimate  is  to  be  formed  of  the  Free  Church,  and  if 
the  lessons  of  her  experience  amidst  the  difficulties  of  disestab- 
lishment are  to  be  read  aright,  some  account  must  be  given 
not  only  of  her  eS'orts  and  sacrifices,  but  of  the  persistent  oppo- 
sition in  the  face  of  which  her  work  had  to  be  done. 

It  is  the  rebuilding  of  the  Church,  then,  that  the  following 
pages  are  intended  to  describe — the  rearing  up  of  her  external 
framework  on  the  old  foundations,  after  the  overthrow  of  the 
Disruption.  No  attempt,  indeed,  can  be  made  to  give  a 
full  history  of  the  time ;  the  materials  in  the  hands  of  the 
Committee  are  as  yet  far  too  imperfect  to  allow  of  this  being 
done.  It  will  be  enough  if  the  extracts  and  incidents  here 
recorded  shall  serve  in  some  degree  to  recall  the  general  aspect 
of  those  busy  years.  "With  thankfulness  we  shall  have  to  speak 
of  help  received  in  the  hour  of  need — of  the  friends  who  were 
raised  up — of  the  generous  aid  sent  from  foreign  lands — and 
stUl  more,  of  what  was  done  by  the  zeal  and  self-sacrifice  of  the 
Church's  own  members  at  home.  But  in  the  multiplicity  of 
these  details  there  is  one  thing  which  must  never  be  forgotten, 
— the  sacredness  of  the  great  cause  for  which  all  was  done  and 
suffered — the  spiritual  independence  of  the  Church  under  her 
Divine  Head.     And  not  less  must  we  in  humble  thankfulness 


THE  SITUATION  IN  JUNE,  1843.  209 

recognise  the  hand  of  God  leadincr  His  people  forward  step 
by  step — often  by  a  way  which  they  knew  not — till,  amidst 
innumerable  tokens  of  blessing,  the  Church  has  risen  into  the 
position  which  this  day  she  is  permitted  to  occupy.  Surely 
in  the  retrospect  of  all  that  has  been  done  and  suffered, 
her  members  may  well  unite  their  efforts  and  their  prayers, 
that,  knowing  the  day  of  her  visitation,  the  Free  Church  of 
Scotland  may  prove  faithful  to  the  high  trust  which  has  been 
given  into  her  hands. 


i 

I 


210  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 


XXII.  Temporary  Plages  of  Worship. 

When  the  time  for  parting  came  in  1843,  and  the  parish 
churches  were  left,  the  first  object  was  to  obtain  temporary 
accommodation  for  the  worship  of  God.  DifiFerent  methods 
were  taken  according  to  circumstances,  and  nothing  in  the 
whole  history  of  that  period  is  more  remarkable  than  the  strange 
variety  of  expedients  which  suggested  themselves  to  the  people 
in  different  parts  of  the  country.  The  details  may  in  many  cases 
seem  simple  and  trivial,  but  they  serve  at  least  to  bring  into 
view  the  exigencies  of  the  time  and  the  difficulties  in  which  our 
congregations  were  often  placed. 

As  was  natural,  wherever  there  were  disused  places  of 
worship,  they  were  at  once  applied  for,  and  in  some  instances 
they  passed  by  lease  or  purchase  into  the  hands  of  the  Free 
Church.  The  Independent  Church  at  Banchory-Ternan,*  for 
example,  was  fitted  up  anew  for  public  worship,  and  opened 
on  the  21st  of  May,  three  days  after  the  Disruption.  At 
Kirriemuir,-}-  an  old  unoccupied  Eelief  church  was  rented. 
In  the  village  of  Keith,  Strathbogie,  there  were  two  Seces- 
sion churches,  and  one  of  them,  on  a  vacancy  occurring, 
was  sold  to  the  Non-intrusionists.  At  Ellon,J  Aberdeen- 
shire, where  "it  would  have  been  very  difficult  to  procure 
a  site,  the  way  was  made  plain  by  a  small  chapel,  Avith 
ground  for  enlargement,  having  been  sold  to  the  Free  Church 
by  a  small  body  of  Independents,  most  of  whom  united  them- 
selves to  the  new  congregation." 

*   Witness  Newspaper,  10th  June,  1843.  t  Ibid. 

X  Disr.  Mss.  x.  p.  7. 


TEMPORAET  PLACES  OF  WOKSHIP.  211 

Perhaps  the  most  remarkable  case  of  this  kind  was  at  Greenock, 
where  the  Gaelic  congregation  were  accommodated  in  the  very 
last  place  that  could  have  been  expected — one  of  the  old 
Established  churches  of  the  town.  "The  old  West  Kirk  at  the 
foot  of  Nicholson  Street  had  been  lying  in  a  ruinous  condition 
since  the  transference  of  the  Rev.  Dr.  M'Farlan's  congregation 
to  the  new  parish  church  in  Nelson  Street  in  May,  1841.  It 
had  been  formally  condemned  by  the  Presbytery,  so  far  back  as 
16th  October,  1837,  as  quite  unfit  for  a  place  of  worship,  and 
being  allowed  to  fall  into  a  state  of  utter  decay,  it  was  at  this 
time  the  very  picture  of  desolation.  But  it  occurred  to  some 
of  the  Gaelic  people  that  if  it  could  be  procured  temporarily, 
and  the  dust  which  lay  deep  on  pulpit  and  pew  cleared  away, 
some  slight  repairs  to  the  windows  and  roof  would  make  it 
habitable  until  a  new  church  could  be  erected.  Application 
was  accordingly  made  to  the  late  David  Crawford,  Esq.,  then 
baron  bailie,  for  permission  to  occupy  it  for  a  time,  which 
was  granted  in  the  most  courteous  manner  by  that  gentleman, 
so  that  the  congregation  worshipped  there  undisturbed  for 
rather  more  than  twelve  months."  * 

Apart,  however,  from  such  exceptional  cases,  the  common 
arrangement  in  towns  was,  that  Dissenting  congregations, 
at  much  inconvenience  to  themselves,  gave  the  use  of  their 
churches  at  separate  hours,  and  the  cordial  spirit  with  which 
this  was  done  should  not  be  forgotten.  Three  weeks  before 
the  Disruption,  Dr.  Lindsay  Alexander  at  Edinburgh  wrote 
to  his  neighbour,  Dr.  Charles  Brown :  "  It  gives  me  much 
pleasure  to  be  able  to  inform  you  that  last  night,  at  one 
of  the  fullest  church  meetings  at  which  I  ever  presided,  it  was 
agreed  unanimously  that  the  use  of  our  place  of  worship  should 
be  offered  to  you  and  your  congregation  for  such  time  as  you 
might  require  it  after  leaving  your  present  place. 

"  I  cannot  refuse  myself  the  pleasure  of  saying  that  the  de- 
cision was  come  to  last  night  by  our  church  without  so  much 
as  one  individual  intimating  doubt,  difficulty,  or  dissent ;  and 
I  was  especially  requested  to  say  to  you  that  we  felt  it  to  be  a 
privilege  to  be  enabled  to  show,  in  this  way,  our  fraternal 
*  Disruption  Eeminiscences,  &c.  &c.,  p.  19,  by  A.  J.  Black. 


212  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

regard  for  those  who  are  acting  so  conscientious  a  part  as  that 
which  you  and  your  brethren  are  pursuing."  * 

At  Perth,  it  is  stated  by  the  congregation  of  St.  Leonard's : 
'  We  met  for  public  worship  for  the  first  time  in  our  separate 
capacity  in  ttie  Original  Secession  Meeting-House,  which  was 
kindly  offered  for  the  purpose  after  their  forenoon's  service  was 
over.  But  this  house  beino-  too  small  for  the  large  numbers  in 
attendance,  the  two  large  meeting-houses  belonging  to  the 
United  Secession  Church  were,  the  following  week,  also  promptly 
and  unanimously  offered  for  our  accommodation  at  meetings  of 
the  managers  of  the  respective  congregations,  which  we  gladly 
and  gratefully  accepted.  The  hours  were  so  arranged  as  to 
suit  all  parties  as  conveniently  as  possible,  but  the  North 
Secession  Congregation  put  themselves  to  peculiar  incon- 
venience on  our  account."  -f- 

Thus  it  was  that,  in  cases  far  too  numerous  to  mention.  Free 
Church  congregations  found  welcome  at  the  hands  of  their 
brethren.  The  intercourse  which  followed  did  much  to  smooth 
away  any  asperities  arising  from  former  conflicts,  and  instances 
were  not  wanting  in  which  kindly  feelings  were  fittingly  ex- 
pressed. At  Dunblane,  on  the  14th  December,  a  deputation  of 
ladies  connected  with  the  Free  Church,  headed  by  Mr.  Mackenzie, 
their  minister,  and  Mr.  Cross,  sheriff-substitute,  waited  on  the 
minister  of  the  United  Secession,  and  in  name  of  the  congrega- 
tion, presented  Mrs.  Henderson  with  two  solid  silver  salvers  as 
an  expression  of  "  high  gratification  arising  from  the  pastoral 
and  Christian  intercourse  that  has  been  maintained  by  the 
ministers  and  people  of  these  respective  congregations  since  the 
period  of  the  Disruption." ;;: 

In  rural  parishes  it  was  usually  arranged  that  some  friendly 
farmer  should  give  the  use  of  his  barn.  At  Garvald,  East 
Lothian,  Mr.  Dodds  "  preached  in  a  barn,  which  had  been  kindly 
granted  and  fitted  up  as  a  temporary  place  of  worship,  to  over- 
flowing audiences.  .  .  .  There  could  not  be  less  than  nearly  five 
hundred  persons  present." § 

♦   Witness,  29th  April,  184a  t  Witness,  20th  December,  1843. 

t  hisT.  jVIss.  iv.  p.  4.  §  Ibid.  28th  June.  1843. 


TEMPOEARY  PLACES  OF  WORSHIP.  213 

At  Bowden,  Koxburghshire,  on  the  4th  June,  the  Eev.  Thos. 
Jolly  preached  "  in  a  large  barn  in  the  village  at  the  usual  hour. 
The  place  of  meeting  was  so  densely  crowded  that  considerably 
above  a  hundred  were  unable  to  gain  admittance."* 

"In  a  barn,"  at  Flisk,  Fifeshire,  Mr.  Taylor  states,  "under  the 
shadow  of  the  Castle  of  Criech,  which  belonged  in  a  former 
age  to  a  branch  of  the  Beaton  family,  we  met  on  the  first 
Sabbath  after  the  Disruption.  We  had  much  anxiety  before 
coming  to  the  place  of  meeting  ;  but  all  our  fears  were  removed 
when  we  found  the  place  quite  full."  -f- 

A  remarkable  case  was  that  of  Mr.  Stirling,  of  CargilL  We 
formerly  saw  his  appearance  as  leader  of  the  Presbytery  of  Dun- 
keld,  when  he  stood  up  at  the  bar  of  the  Court  of  Session  to  be 
rebuked.  The  reader  may  be  interested  in  seeing  him  again  in 
other  circumstances  when  on  the  road  to  his  barn.  "  The  parish 
church  of  Cargill  was  vacated  on  the  4th  June  by  its  venerable 
pastor,  who  preached  to  his  much  attached  flock,  to  the  extent 
of  eight  hundred,  in  a  barn  belonging  to  Mr.  James  Irving,  of 
Newbiggings.  The  place  was  found  much  too  small,  but  those 
who  could  not  be  accommodated  inside,  cheerfully  joined  in  the 
praise  standing  round  the  door.  After  solemn  prayer  that  the 
Father  of  all  would  perfect  His  strength  in  their  weakness,  the 
reverend  gentleman  delivered  an  impressive  discourse  with  a 
fervency  which  caused  deep  emotion,  and  tears  started  to  many 
an  eye  not  accustomed  to  weep,  on  beholding  their  aged  pastor, 
who  had  broke  the  Bread  of  Life  amongst  them  for  thirty-four 
years,  forsaking  all  earthly  benefits,  that  he  might  be  at  liberty 
to  preach  the  Word  of  God  in  its  purity,  beyond  the  pale  of  an 
Erastianised  Establishment.  .  .  .  When  the  hour  of  worship 
arrived,  the  people  from  the  surrounding  cottages  were  seen  in 
crowds  thoughtfully  wending  their  way  to  the  place  of  meeting, 
and  in  the  midst,  their  aged  and  venerated  pastor  hearing  the 
sacred  volume  beneath  his  arm!'  | 

Such  examples  will  show  what  was  taking  place  in  hundreds 
of  localities  over  the  country.  The  writer  can  never  forget  his 
own  experience  at  Kinneff,  where  his  friend,  Mr.  Hector,  of 

*   Witness,  10th  June,  1843. 
t  Disr.  Mss.  xxxvii.  p.  10.  X  Witness,  24th  June,  1843. 


214  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

Fernyflatt,  tenant  of  the  largest  farm  in  the  parish,  had  his  barn 
seated,  so  as  to  form  a  commodious  place  of  worship — this  being 
only  one  of  many  kind  services  rendered  to  his  minister  and  the 
congregation  of  which  he  was  a  devoted  and  zealous  member. 

Barns,  however,  with  sufficient  accommodation  were  not 
always  to  be  had,  and  a  great  variety  of  other  expedients  had 
to  be  resorted  to. 

At  Berriedale,  in  Caithness,  the  congregation  obtained  the  use 
of  a  cottage — an  old  schoolhouse.  After  trying  for  a  consider- 
able time  to  meet  in  the  open  air,  by  permission  of  the  factor 
they  took  possession  of  this  cottage,  enlarged  it  for  the  purpose, 
and  used  it  for  many  years,  till  in  1857  their  church  was 
built — the  only  subject  of  regret  being,  that  the  factor  was 
dismissed,  losing  his  situation,  as  was  believed,  because  of  the 
considerate  kindness  he  had  showed  to  the  people.* 

In  the  village  of  Muthill,  Perthshire,  a  hall  was  obtained. 
There  was  a  Mason-lodge  in  the  village,  which  would  have 
given  more  ample  accommodation,  but  the  parish  minister,  of 
unhappy  memory,  had  secured  a  lease  of  it  for  a  year,  so  as  to 
exclude  the  Free  Church.  "One  other  hall  alone  could  be 
obtained,  and  the  tenant  let  it  to  us  almost  under  the  ban  of 
his  superiors.  We  took  out  one  of  the  windows,  and  when  the 
hall  filled,  the  rest  of  the  people  sat  in  a  court-yard,  and  I 
preached  to  them  out  of  the  window.  There  was  not  another 
spot  about  Muthill,  within  or  out  of  doors,  on  which  we  durst 
meet  for  the  first  two  months."  -|- 

At  Monquhitter,  Aberdeenshire,  the  congregation  obtained,  as 
a  temporary  place  of  worship,  a  temperance  hall  in  the  village  of 
Cuminestown,  "  which  was  providentially  in  process  of  building, 
and  nearly  completed  at  the  Disruption,  so  that  we  had  to 
worship  only  for  three  Sabbaths  in  the  open  air. "J 

At  St.  David's,  Dundee,  it  was  an  old  abandoned  mill  that 
was  got,  "  in  the  lower  flat  of  which  we  found  refuge  until  a 
new  church  was  erected."  § 

*  Parker  Mss.,  Presb.  of  Caithness,  p.  2. 

+  Disr.  Mss.  viii.  p.  9. 

X  Parker  Msa.,  Presb.  of  Turrifil     §  Ibid.  Dundee,  Rev.  G.  Lewis,  1>.1L 


TEMPOEARY  PLACES  OF  WORSHIP.  215 

Mr.  Melville,  an  adherent  of  the  Establisliment  at  Tony- 
burn,  granted  Mr.  Doig  and  his  congregation  the  use — rent 
free — of  a  shed  attached  to  his  place  of  business,  for  worship, 
fitting  up  the  same  gratuitously  with  a  pulpit  and  seats.  Four- 
fifths  of  the  communicants  adhered  with  Mr.  D.  to  the  Free 
Church.* 

There  were  special  difficulties  at  Stanley,  Perthshire,  and 
they  were  met  in  an  unexpected  way.  The  large  factory  and 
most  of  the  village  belonged  to  a  manufacturing  firm  who  made 
no  secret  of  their  hostility,  forbidding  the  use  of  all  the  rooms 
and  halls.  But  if  there  was  no  place  for  the  Free  Church  in 
the  halls  of  the  manufacturers,  room  was  found  in  a  stable. 
"  The  year  before  the  Disruption,  James  M'Gregor,  Esq.,  a 
gentleman  who  had  made  a  fortune  in  America,  came  home  to 
Stanley,  his  native  district,  intending  to  settle  there  for  life,  and 
for  his  accommodation  he  built  a  very  large  stable  for  six 
horses,  with  hay-loft  above,  &c.  But  it  was  no  sooner  completed 
than  the  commercial  convulsions  in  America  required  his  pre- 
sence again  in  that  country ;  and  Mr.  M'Gregor  being  friendly 
to  the  Free  Church,  this  house  was  placed  at  our  disposal ;  and 
with  some  slight  alterations,  it  afforded  accommodation  and 
shelter  to  the  congregation  until  our  church  was  built,  and  it 
still  continues  [1846]  to  be  used  by  us  as  a  schoolroom.  But 
for  this  building,  though  the  builders  little  imagined  that  they 
were  rearing  a  dwelling  to  shelter  a  church  of  Christ,  the  Free 
Church  must  have  worshipped  from  May  till  March  next  year 
in  the  open  air."  -f- 

At  Fairlie,  near  Largs,  Mr.  Gemmel  on  leaving  his  church 
retired  lo  a  schoolroom,  which  had  been  built  at  a  cost  of 
nearly  £200  by  Mr.  Parker  and  Mr.  Tennent,  of  Wellpark, 
two  members  of  the  Free  Church.  They  had,  however, 
neglected  to  obtain  a  lease  from  the  Earl  of  Glasgow,  on  whose 
ground  the  schoolhouse  stood ;  and  availing  himself  of  this 
legal  technicality,  his  lordship  resolved  to  seize  the  property. 
On  the  following  Saturday  evening  the  factor  appeared  along 
with   a   notary-public,   to   prohibit   Mr.    Gemmel  from  again 

*  Parker  Mss.,  Presb.  of  Dunfermline. 
t  Diar.  Mss.  v.  p.  4- 


216  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

entering  the  building.  The  congregation,  accordingly,  had  to 
retire  to  the  stable  at  Fairlie  Lodge.  Mrs.  Parker  had  the 
place  fitted  up,  and  supplied  with  forms,  and  she  placed  in  it 
the  pulpit  that  had  belonged  to  the  well-known  Kev.  W. 
Scoresby,  F.R.S.,  of  Mariner's  Church,  Liverpool,  which  had 
come  into  her  possession.  There  the  congregation  continued 
to  worship  for  nine  months,  and  there  they  were  engaged  in 
celebrating  the  Sacrament  of  the  Supper  on  the  second  Sabbath 
of  February,  at  the  time  when  Mr.  Gemmel's  former  church, 
after  being  locked  up  for  three  months,  was  reopened  by  the 
Established  Presbytery.  Mr.  Gemmel,  writing  in  1876,  and 
referring  to  the  winter  when  they  worshipped  in  the  stable, 
states :  "  There,  exposed  to  open  doors  and  draughts,  I  received 
a  severe  cold,  from  which  I  have  never  entirely  recovered."  * 

At  Langton,  Berwickshire,  a  spacious  granary  was  fitted  up 
as  a  place  of  worship  by  the  Dowager-Marchioness  of  Breadal- 
bane.  Forty-five  years  previously  it  had  been  used  in  a 
similar  way  while  a  new  parish  church  was  being  built ;  and 
some  of  the  parishioners  who  had  worshipped  in  it  on  that 
occasion  were  there  once  more  to  take  part  in  the  service.  The 
Dowager-Marchioness,  with  her  cousin.  Lady  Hannah  Tharp, 
were  regular  worshippers;  and  it  was  interesting  to  see  the 
Marquis,  when  on  a  visit,  taking  his  place  on  the  same  benches 
with  the  rest  of  the  people,  after  assisting  one  of  the  elders,  who 
was  in  infirm  health,  into  the  place  of  honour  which  had  been 
prepared  for  himself. 

When  the  Disruption  took  place,  Mr.  Miller,  of  Monikie, 
"could  obtain  no  suitable  site  for  building  a  church,  his  per- 
sonal application  to  the  first  Lord  Paninure,  of  whom  he  was 
an  intimate  friend,  having  been  refused.  He  obtained  a 
meeting-place  for  his  congregation  in  a  grain-loft  at  Aflleck. 
...  At  the  time  of  the  Disruption,  Mr.  Miller  had  begun  to 
be  touched  by  the  infirmities  of  age ;  and  there  can  be  no 
doubt  that  his  health  and  strength  were  still  further  impaired 
by  the  extremely  cold  and  uncomfortable  place  of  worship  in 

*  See  further  details  by  Mr.  Gemmel  in  Appendix  to  A  Discourse 
delivered  at  Faii-lie,  &c.  »Stc.,  1844.  See  also  Letter  to  Inhabitants,  &c., 
1876. 


TEMPOEARY  PLACES  OF  WORSHIP.  217 

whicTi  the  congregation  met,  just  under  the  slates,  and  without 
windows.  It  was  only  after  the  accession  to  the  title  and 
estates  of  the  present  Earl  of  Dalhousie  that  the  congre- 
gation were  provided  with  a  place  of  worship  and  the  minister 
with  a  manse.     This  was  nine  years  after  the  Disruption."  * 

At  Fort-Augustus,  it  was  not  till  the  28th  of  March,  1844, 
that  the  foundation-stone  of  the  Free  Church  was  .laid.  Pre- 
viously the  congregation  had  assembled  in  a  large  malt-ham 
from  the  time  of  the  Disruption.-f* 

At  Campbeltown,  the  Gaelic  congregation  found  accommo- 
dation (4th  June,  1843)  at  the  distillery  of  Messrs.  John  Grant 
&  Co.  A  large  court  belonging  to  the  works  had  been  "  almost 
completely  covered  in  with  a  wooden  roof  in  a  day  and  a  half 
by  the  Highlanders  themselves.  From  1500  to  2000  gathered, 
and  patiently  endured  the  cold  rather  than  desert  their  ministers 
or  their  cause.     The  place  was  crowded."  J 

A  still  more  remarkable  transformation  took  place  at  Syming- 
ton, in  Ayrshire.  "  The  very  day  after  I  left  the  old  church  the 
elders  and  others  set  to  work  to  find  a  temporary  place  of 
worship,  and  they  fortunately  secured  for  that  purpose  an  old 
public-house,  which  was  then  empty.  They  took  down  all  its 
partitions,  threw  all  its  rooms  into  one,  had  it  all  seated  by  the 
following  Sabbath,  and  it  was  sufficiently  large  to  hold  a  good 
congregation,  I  preached  there  for  nine  months  with  great 
comfort  and  satisfaction.  My  pulpit  was  an  old  door  laid 
across  two  small  tressles,  and  upon  it  a  table  and  chair ;  and  it 
was  the  finest  pulpit  I  ever  occupied.  It  was  so  near  the 
people,  they  were  all  seated  around  and  in  front  of  it,  and  as 
they  were  at  that  time  so  eager  to  hear  the  Gospel,  I  believe  I 
never  preached  with  greater  eflFect  or  with  more  acceptance."  § 

Among  the  fishing  population  it  sometimes  happened  that 
the  only  available  building  was  a  herring-store.  Thus  at  Keiss, 
it  is  said — For  the  first  four  months  after  the  Disruption  they 
worshipped  in  a  barn,  but  when  harvest  came,  and  the  barn 
was  required  for  farm  purposes,  they  had  to  retire  to  a  herring 

*  Parker  Mss.,  Presb,  of  Dundee,  Eev,  Dr.  Wilson. 

t  Witness,  6th  April,  1844.  J  Ibid.  10th  June,  1843. 

§  Disr.  Mss.  xlviii.  pp.  11,  12,  Rev.  G.  Orr. 


218  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

storehouse,  "in  a  compartment  of  which  public  worship  was 
carried  on,  and  wherein  to  this  day  [1846]  the  people 
assemble."* 

In  similar  circumstances  was  the  Lord's  Supper  dispensed  at 
Helmsdale,  on  the  26th  November,  1843.  "To  keep  within 
bounds,  the  congregation  must  have  been  from  2200  to  2400, 
which  was  considered  a  great  number  for  this  season  of  the 
year.  There  was  house  accommodation  for  about  1400  in  a 
curing-yard  and  stores,  the  front  of  which  is  closed  in  with 
deals.  Some  of  the  deals  were  removed  to  enable  those  out- 
side to  see  and  hear.  The  scene  was  solemn  and  affecting. 
So  eager  were  the  people  to  listen  to  the  Gospel  preached,  that 
those  outside  waited  patiently  from  10  A.M.  till  6  P.M."-f- 

At  the  Disruption,  two-thirds  of  the  parishioners  at  Burg- 
head  followed  Mr.  Waters  to  the  green,  where  he  conducted 
public  worship  for  some  time.  By-and-by  two  granaries — a 
lower  and  an  upper  floor — were  rented,  in  which,  ill-adapted 
though  they  were  for  the  purpose,  public  worship  was  conducted 
on  ordinary  Sabbath  days,  while  the  Sacrament  of  the  Lord's 
Supper  was  dispensed  in  a  herring-curing  shed  until  the  Free 
Church  was  built.  J 

The  Kev.  Gustavus  Aird  could  get  no  site  at  Croich ;  but 
one  of  the  sheep  farmers,  George  Murray,  Esq.,  of  Rosemount, 
"  kindly  ofiered  to  me  the  cottage  on  the  farm  for  a  dwelling,  and 
also  grass  for  a  cow  and  horse,  and  the  use  of  the  large  wool- 
barn  for  the  congregation  as  a  place  of  worship,  with  the  exception 
of  a  few  weeks  in  July,  when  it  was  filled  with  wool."  § 

At  Oyne,  Aberdeenshire,  the  only  place  of  worship  allowed 
to  the  minister  and  people  is  a  large  cart-shed,  with  a  wooden 
addition  to  it,  which  neither  excludes  the  summer  shower 
nor  the  winter's  snow.  It  was  pitiful  during  the  winter  [of  1844] 
to  see  the  old  people  sitting  in  this  cold  place  of  worship,  and 
the  snow  drifting  about  them  ;  and  even  the  young  people  dis- 
missed from  their  Bible  classes  on  account  of  the  cold.  || 

In  this  way,  wherever  existing  buildings  could  furnish  the 

*  Disr.  Mss.  xxv.  p.  3.  X  Parker  Mss.,  Presb.  of  Elgin. 

t  Witne^i,  29th  November,  1843.       §  Ibid.  Presb.  of  Tain. 
Jl  See  Witness,  22nd  July,  1845. 


TEMPORARY  PLACES  OF  WORSHIP.  219 

needful  accommodation,  they  were  turned  to  account,  without 
waiting  for  a  moment  to  consider  how  far  their  ordinary 
uses  might  be  in  harmony  with  the  sacred  purpose  for  which 
they  were  employed.  Under  the  pressure  of  necessity  as  the 
people  then  were,  outward  appearances  were  of  small  account. 

But  there  were  cases  of  still  greater  difficulty  where  no  exist- 
ing accommodation,  even  of  the  humblest  kind,  could  be  obtained, 
and  where  various  shifts  and  expedients  had  to  be  tried. 

Sometimes  wooden  churches  were  erected.  Thus  at  Largo, 
Mr.  Brown  and  his  people  were  allowed  for  two  Sabbaths  to 
occupy  the  parish  schoolroom  ;  but  "  knowing  that  this  was  to 
be  refused  for  longer  use,  we  instantly  raised  a  wooden  erection, 
called  'The  Tabernacle,'  very  deficient  in  the  shelter  it 
afforded,  and  we  continued  to  worship  there  until  the  perma- 
nent building  could  be  got  ready."  * 

For  three  Sabbaths  the  congregation  at  Woodside,  Aberdeen 
met  in  the  open  air,  on  the  school-ground.  After  that,  a  large 
temporary  wooden  building,  seated  for  1500  persons,  being  com- 
pleted in  the  immediate  neighbourhood,  they  removed  thither 
on  Sabbath,  the  26th  June.  The  number  at  the  first  dispensation 
of  the  Lord's  Supper,  July  2,  amounted  to  1351  communicants.-j- 

For  two  years,  says  Mr.  Grant,  of  Ayr,  "  we  worshipped  in  a 
wooden  church  behind  Alloway  Place,  which  was  opened  by 
the  Eev.  Dr.  Gordon,  of  Edinburgh,  in  October,  1843.  It  was 
infested  by  beetles,  earwigs,  and  mice,  annoyed  by  drops  of 
rain  in  wet  weather,  and  of  pitch  in  hot  summer  days.  Yet 
these  were  the  months  to  which  I  have  referred  "  as  a  time  of 
special  blessing.  + 

How  rapidly  these  wooden  structures  could  be  put  together, 
was  seen  in  the  case  of  Khynie  before  the  Disruption.  The 
people  had  great  difficulty  in  obtaining  a  site,  and  it  was  not 
till  after  very  considerable  delay  that  a  suitable  one  was  pro- 
cured. "  They  were  quite  willing  to  put  up,  for  a  time,  with 
temporary  accommodation ;  and,  accordingly,  they  formed  a 
plan,  which  was  successfully  carried  out,  and  with  so  much 

*  Disr.  Mas.  xlv.  p.  2.  t  Diss.  Mss.  xxvii,  p.  7. 

X  Ibid.  xlL  p.  12. 


220  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISKUPTION. 

secrecy,  that  those  who  were  opposed  had  not  the  slightest  idea 
of  what  was  going  on.  It  was  on  a  Saturday  morning,  if  I 
recollect  aright,  that  the  congregation,  and  some  of  their  friends 
from  a  distance,  assembled  at  a  very  early  hour.  The  neces- 
sary materials  were  brought  in  carts  from  a  little  distance  to  a 
small  plot  of  ground  out  of  the  village,  where  it  was  believed 
they  would  not  be  interfered  with;  and  such  was  the  activity 
displayed,  that  before  the  shades  of  evening  fell,  they  had  a 
plain  but  substantial  wooden  church  erected,  in  which  they 
worshipped  on  the  following  day.  There  were  no  railways  in 
those  days,  and  no  telegraphic  communication,  so  that  there 
was  no  time  to  send  to  Aberdeen  for  an  interdict,  had  any 
attempt  been  made  to  obtain  it."  * 

The  example  thus  set  was  followed  at  a  subsequent  period  in 
the  neighbouring  parish  of  Bellie.  The  town-hall  of  Fochabers 
was  put  at  the  disposal  of  the  congregation,  and  occupied  for 
two  Sabbaths ;  but  so  many  had  to  remain  outside  for  want  of 
room,  that  it  was  resolved  to  erect  a  wooden  church  to  contain 
400  or  500  hearers.  On  Tuesday,  June  9,  the  parishioners 
commenced  the  work ;  and  on  Saturday  a  band  of  fifty  carpenters 
having  come  up  from  Garmouth  and  volunteered  their  services, 
the  whole  was  finished  that  night.  The  materials  were  carted 
to  the  ground,  and  the  work  carried  on  and  completed  free  of 
any  charge,  i* 

At  Kirkhill,  where  Gaelic  as  well  as  English  services  were 
required,  a  similar  lively  scene  is  described  :  "  A  site  for  the 
church  having  been  kindly  granted  by  John  Fraser,  Esq.,  on 
his  property  of  Achnagairn,  and  Mr.  John  M'Lennan,  mer- 
chant, Beauly,  having  handsomely  presented  manufactured 
timber  for  a  place  of  worship,  on  Tuesday  the  people  assembled 
and  gave  their  gratuitous  aid  in  erecting  the  building.  During 
that  and  the  four  following  days,  successive  relays  of  workmen 
arrived,  carrying  their  tools  with  them,  there  being  seldom  less 
than  from  fifty  to  sixty  men  on  the  spot,  some  clearing  the 
ground  of  whins  and  stones,  and  levelling  it  for  the  Gaelic 
congregation.  On  Saturday  morning  the  preaching  box  was 
set  up,  and  it  was  most  interesting  to  witness  the  people  com- 
*  Disr.  Mss.  xliv,  p.  8.  t   Witness,  28th  June,  1843. 


TEMPOEAEY  PLACES  OF  WORSHIP.  221 

ing  from  all  quarters  of  the  parish,  and  many  from  the  neigh- 
bouring parishes,  carrying  forms  on  their  shoulders,  and 
anxiously  placing  them  in  favourable  situations  near  the  pulpit. 
On  Saturday  night  the  wooden  church  was  likewise  finished, 
neatly  seated,  and  the  pulpit  erected.  On  Sabbath  forenoon 
Mr.  Praser  preached  in  Gaelic  to  a  congregation  of  about  two 
thousand,  and  in  the  afternoon  in  English  in  the  church,  to 
about  four  hundred,  the  people  being  densely  crowded,  and 
many  being  disappointed  in  obtaining  admission."  * 

It  was  not  to  be  wondered  at  if  these  wooden  erections, 
owing  to  their  homely  appearance,  were  occasionally  made  the 
subject  of  sarcastic  remark.  A  story  is  told  of  a  meeting  of 
farmers  in  the  north,  chiefly  belonging  to  the  Moderate  party, 
where  a  member  of  the  Free  Church  who  happened  to  be  pre- 
sent was  asked,  "  How  are  ye  getting  on  with  your  wooden 
kirks?"  When  the  laugh  which  followed  this  question  had 
subsided,  he  replied — "  Oh,  very  well ;  but  how  are  you  getting 
on  with  your  wooden  ministers  ? "  It  must  be  confessed  that 
these  churches,  intended  only  for  temporary  purposes,  were 
often  sufficiently  humble,  and  yet  there  were  cases  in  which, 
despite  their  lowly  appearance,  marks  of  respect  were  not  with- 
held. The  congregation  of  Dr.  Macintosh,  of  Tain,  accom- 
panied him  out  with  very  few  exceptions.  "  They  met  with  him 
in  a  wooden  building,  hurriedly  erected,  even  the  magistrates 
of  the  town,  preceded  by  their  red-coated,  halbert-armed 
officers,  walking  in  procession,  and  taking  their  place  of 
honour  in  the  Free,  as  they  were  wont  to  do  in  the  Established 
Church."  t 

The  most  interesting  of  these  scenes,  however,  were  the  fields 
and  hillsides,  and  glens,  where  congregations  unable  to  find 
shelter  met  under  the  open  canopy  of  heaven.  A  few  cases 
will  be  sufficient  to  show  the  circumstances  under  which  such 
gatherings  were  held. 

After  preaching  his  farewell  sermon  at  Farr,  Mr.  Mackenzie 
states :   "  Monday,  12th  June,  we  kept  our  prayer  meeting  in 

*  Witness,  21st  Jime,  1843. 
t  Memorials  of  Dr.  Macintosh,  p.  57. 


222  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

the  open  air,  and  on  the  15th  we  observed  the  fast  appointed 
by  our  Free  Assembly,  and  henceforward,  until  December  follow- 
ing, we  met  for  public  worship  in  the  field,  taking  the  most 
sheltered  spots  we  could  find."  The  reader  will  have  no  difii- 
culty  in  understanding  how,  in  the  month  of  November,  on  the 
shores  of  the  Northern  Ocean,  while  meeting  in  the  open  air, 
it  was  necessary  to  take  "  the  most  sheltered  spots  "  they  could 
find.  Mr.  Mackenzie  mentions  thankfully  that  after  December 
they  were  "allowed,  unmolested,  ...  to  fit  up  a  gravel-pit, 
where  we  had  our  canvas  tent  for  a  year."  * 

The  state  of  mind  in  which  the  poor  Highlanders  of  these 
northern  parishes  were  during  that  season  may  be  inferred  from 
a  statement  made  by  Mr.  Garment,  of  Rosskeen,  in  the  month  of 
November,  1843.  "  Old  as  I  am,  and  lame  through  rheumatism, 
I  lately  travelled  through  Sutherlandshire  and  part  of  Argyll- 
shire." .  .  .  On  visiting  one  of  the  parishes  "we  asked  the 
people,  '  Where's  the  tent  [a  kind  of  pulpit]  to  preach  in,  for 
we  saw  none  near  us ;  and  what,  think  you,  was  the  people's 

answer  ? '     '  Oh,  Mr. [the  Factor]  is  here  just  now,  and  the 

tent's  away  up  there ' — pointing  to  a  hill  half  as  high  as  Ben 
Ledi  or  Ben  Lomond,  and  more  fitted  for  an  eagle's  eyrie  than 
for  a  preaching  place.  '  We  put  it  up  there  as  we  are  afraid  it 
should  he  seen.'  '  Monstrous  !'  said  I ;  *  how  do  you  expect  me 
ever  to  get  up  there  ?  I'm  not  able  to  climb,'  '  Oh,  sir,'  they 
said,  '  we'll  get  a  horse  for  you.'  '  Impossible,'  said  I, 
'neither  horse  nor  man  will  ever  get  up  there.'  And  so 
they  had  to  send  up  messengers  and  bring  the  people  down, 
and  I  preached  to  them  in  the  open  air  at  the  bottom  of 
the  hill."  t 

Hugh  Miller  writes,  on  the  9th  of  July :  "  I  have  just  re- 
turned from  Helmsdale,  where  I  have  been  hearing  sermon  in 
the  open  air  with  the  poor  Highlanders.  .  .  .  The  congregation 
was  numerous — from  six  to  eight  hundred  at  least — and  all 
seemed  serious  and  attentive.  It  must  have  been  the  power  of 
association,  but  I  thought  their  Gaelic  singing,  so  plaintive  at 
all  times,  even  more  melancholy  than  usual."  \ 

*  Disr.  Mss.  xx.  pp.  4,  5.  t   Witness,  4th  November,  1843. 

%  Life  of  Hugh  Miller,  vol.  ii.  p.  358. 


TEMPOEARY  PLACES  OF  WORSHIP,  223 

But  such  scenes  were  not  confined  to  the  North.  At  Humbie, 
East  Lothian,  Mr.  Dodds  states :  "  On  Sabbath,  11th  June,  I 
preached  at  Upper  Keith  in  front  of  the  schoolhouse,  from  a 
wooden  tent,  to  a  large  and  attentive  congregation.  .  .  .  Hav- 
ing had  reason  to  believe  that  several  of  the  heritors,  all  of 
whom,  ten  in  number,  were  hostile  to  the  Free  Church,  were 
about  to  take  steps  to  prevent  me  from  preaching  a  second  time 
at  the  schoolhouse,  though  it  was  only  by  the  highwayside,  I 
was  obliged  to  look  out  for  another  place  of  meeting  for  next 
Sabbath.  A  wright  in  the  village  of  Upper  Keith,  an  elder  in 
the  Secession  Church,  offered  me  the  use  of  his  woodyard,  but 

the  farmer  from  whom  he  rented  it — Mr. ,  of ,  a  man 

on  whom  and  whose  family  I  had  been  able  to  confer  repeated 
obligations — interfered  to  prevent  me  from  receiving  that  accom- 
modation. I  was  at  a  loss  what  to  do,  when  I  heard  that  Mr. 
Lawson,  tenant  at  Humbie  Mains,  also  an  elder  in  the  Secession 
Church,  was  willing  to  allow  us  to  meet  on  his  farm,  in  a  deep 
and  wooded  glen  or  ravine,  called  Humbie  Dean.  By  the  kind 
permission  of  Mr.  Lawson,  we  continued  to  meet  at  that  place 
during  the  whole  summer,  till  our  new  church  was  finished." 

So  also  at  Lesmahagow  in  the  west.  Dr.  Parker  writes :  "  Our 
ordinary  meetings  for  public  worship  were  held  in  a  field,  .  .  . 
kindly  granted  for  the  purpose  by  Mr.  Robert  Frame,  surgeon, 
a  member  of  the  Establishment.  This  field  was  admirably 
adapted  for  the  object,  having  a  gentle  slope,  and  being  sur- 
rounded on  three  sides  by  trees,  which  afforded  partial  shelter. 
Many  a  happy  Sabbath  we  spent  here  under  the  open  canopy  of 
heaven,  and  here  also  was  dispensed,  on  the  first  occasion  after 
the  Disruption,  the  holy  ordinance  of  the  Lord's  Supper,  with 
circumstances  of  peculiar  solemnity,  which  many,  I  believe,  will 
remember  to  their  dying  hour.  On  the  green  grass  was  the 
table  spread,  and  all  around  were  the  congregation  gathered, 
some  on  chairs  or  rustic  seats  which  they  had  brought,  others 
on  the  bare  ground.  The  service  commenced  at  half-past  ten 
o'clock,  and  continued  without  intermission  till  near  five."  .  .  . 
After  the  interval  of  an  hour,  Dr.  Hanna  preached  the  evening 
sermon  from  Hebrews  vi.  19.* 

*  DLsr.  Mss.  xxkL  pp.  15,  16. 


224  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 

It  is  obvious  that  congregations  compelled  to  worship  in  the 
open  air  in  such  a  climate  as  that  of  Scotland  must  have  met  with 
no  little  discomfort,  and  indeed  danger  to  life  and  health,  but 
never  was  the  goodness  of  God  more  conspicuously  seen.  From 
all  parts  of  the  country  there  are  found  in  the  Disruption  Mss. 
expressions  of  wonder  and  thankfulness  for  the  unexampled 
fineness  of  the  weather  during  the  whole  summer  and  autumn 
of  1843.  Generally  throughout  the  bounds  of  the  Free  Church 
this  had  been  the  subject  of  much  prayer,  even  in  congre- 
gations who  had  themselves  found  shelter,  and  it  afterwards 
appeared  that  among  the  Nonconformist  Churches  of  England, 
many  a  fervent  supplication  had  been  offered  up  on  behalf  of 
their  Scottish  brethren.  There  is  hardly  a  district,  accordingly, 
from  which  we  have  not  impressive  and  grateful  acknowledg- 
ments of  the  goodness  of  God  in  connection  with  the  fair 
bright  Sabbaths  given  during  those  months  of  exposui'e. 

Mr.  Campbell,  of  Berriedale,  Caithness,  states  :  "  I  preached 
during  the  winter  and  spring  of  1843-4,  from  October  till  May, 
and  was  not  once  interrupted  by  a  shower  of  rain  or  snow  all 
that  time,  and  I  preached  almost  always  in  the  open  air.  Such 
a  circumstance  would  seem  to  me  incredible  had  I  not  experi- 
enced it.  ...  I  could  not  but  look  upon  it  as  an  evidence  of 
God's  approval  of  our  conduct,  in  separating  from  the  Establish- 
ment in  the  circumstances."  * 

At  Cromarty,  Hugh  Miller  writes  :  "  There  has  been  much 
rain  of  late,  and  it  has  been  of  great  use  and  greatly  needed,  but 
scarce  any  of  it  fell  during  the  time  of  divine  service  on  the 
Sabbath.  In  his  prayer,  Mr.  Stewart  made  appropriate  men- 
tion of  a  goodness  which  could  be  at  once  favourable  to  exposed 
congregations  and  to  the  concerns  of  the  husbandman."  -f- 

In  the  neighbourhood  of  Perth,  it  is  mentioned  by  Dr. 
Grierson :  "  TiU  the  very  week  before  the  event  [the  Disrup- 
tion], the  weather  had  been  unusually  wet,  but  from  that  week, 
and  for  four  months  and  a-half  afterwards,  there  was  not  a 
Emi;le  Sabbath  on  which  it  rained."  J 

*  Parker  Mss.,  Presb.  of  Caithness. 
t  Life  of  Hugh  Miller,  voL  ii  p.  384. 
J  Disr.  Mss.  jd.  p.  12. 


TEMPOEAIIY  PLACES  OF  WORSHIP.  225 

Close  to  the  water-slied,  between  the  valleys  of  the  Tay  and 
Forth,  Mr.  Grant,  of  Eraco,  writes  :  "  I  took  particular  notice 
of  the  weather  .  .  .  and  I  found  by  a  correct  calculation  that 
fifteen  Sabbaths  elapsed  after  the  Disruption  before  even  a 
shower  fell  to  the  inconvenience  of  worshippers  during  divine 
service."  * 

"  Divine  Providence  remarkably  interposed  in  behalf,  not 
only  of  this  congregation  [Roslin],  but  also  of  many  other  con- 
gregations of  the  Free  Church,  by  sending  favourable  weather 
on  the  day  of  holy  rest,  even  when  the  state  of  the  weather  on 
the  other  days  of  the  week  did  not  warrant  such  an  expecta- 
tion."! 

And  it  was  the  same  at  Ruthwell,  near  the  borders  of  Scot- 
land, on  the  south-west.  "  The  first  really  stormy  Sabbath 
after  we  became  houseless  we  were  able  to  take  shelter  under 
the  new  roof,  and  seated  on  planks  to  worship,  while  wind  and 
fain  beat  without.  This  was  in  October.  During  the  summer 
the  threatening  skies  had  called  forth  more  petitions  for  weather 
tempered  to  our  circumstances  than  ever  we  had  used  before. 
In  one  instance  we  had  so  tempestuous  a  morning  that  we 
feared  it  would  be  impossible  to  meet.  The  storm  became  a 
calm  in  good  time,  and  as  I  set  out  for  the  Sabbath  school  .  .  . 
the  sun  shone  out.  When  church  time  came  the  wind  had  dried 
even  the  turf  on  which  we  sat,  and  many  enjoyed  the  Word  of 
Life  the  more  that  our  comfortable  position  in  hearing  it  was 
regarded  thankfully  as  an  answer  to  prayer."  J 

But  remarkable  as  all  this  was,  the  climate  had  showed 
enough  of  its  fickleness  to  remind  the  hearers  how  much 
they  were  dependent  on  the  special  and  gracious  care  of 
God. 

Thus  at  Lesmahagow,  Dr.  Parker  states  :  "During  many  con- 
secutive Sabbaths  of  the  summer  of  1843,  scarcely  a  drop  of 
rain  fell.  ...  On  one  Sabbath  in  the  month  of  August  the  case 
was  otherwise.  While  the  service  was  going  on  a  dark  cloud 
gradually  overspread  the  sky,  and  the  rain  began  to  fall.  1 
persevered  for  a  time,  but  at  last  the  rain  became  so  heavy  and 

*  Disr.  Mss.  xiii.  p.  8.  t  Ibid.  xiv.  p  2. 

I   Ibid.  xvi.  pp.  G,  7. 

Q 


226 


A^STNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 


the  sound  of  its  pattering  on  the  umbrellas  so  loud,  as  almost  to 
drown  my  voice,  and  ...  as  Mr.  Logan's  place  of  worship  was 
that  day  unoccupied,  we  adjourned  to  it,  and  concluded  the 
service  within  its  walls.  .  .  .  My  pulpit  Bible  was  spotted  and 
injured  in  the  part  which  happened  to  be  open  for  exposition 
and  exposed  to  the  rain — the  Epistle  to  the  Galatians.  These 
spots  cannot  be  effaced,  they  will  continue  as  long  as  the  Bible 
lasts,  a  memorial  of  the  day.  On  showing  them  to  one  of  my 
elders,  he  remarked,  they  are  scars  in  an  honourable  war- 
fare." * 

At  Crailing,  Roxburghshire,  not  far  from  the  Cheviot  Hills, 
"there  were  many  interesting  incidents  in  connection  with  the  ser- 
vices in  the  open  air.  On  one  occasion  the  people  were  assembled 
in  a  field,  when  suddenly  the  sky  grew  black  and  loud  peals  of 
thunder  rolled  over  their  heads.  The  preacher  [Mr.  Milroy] 
adapted  his  discourse  to  the  circumstances,  and  dwelt  on  the 
solemnity  of  the  voice  of  God.  The  people  were  then  dismissed, 
and  had  only  reached  their  homes  when  a  most  terrific  storm 
burst  over  the  whole  neighbourhood,  and  lasted  for  the  whole 
of  that  night."  f 

"  There  has  been  a  night  of  weighty  rain,"  Hugh  Miller  writes 
from  Cromarty,  on  the  morning  of  Sabbath,  the  23rd  July,  "  the 
streets  have  been  swept  clean,  and  the  kennels  show  their 
accumulations  of  sand  and  mud  high  over  their  edges.  I  awoke 
several  times  during  the  night  to  hear  the  gush  from  the  eaves, 
and  the  furious  patter  on  the  panes,  and  I  thought  of  the  many 
poor  congregations  in  Scotland  who  would  have  to  worship  to- 
day in  the  open  air.  But  the  rain  is  now  over,  and  a  host  of 
ragged  clouds  are  careering  over  the  heavens  before  a  strong 
easterly  gale." 

"  I  do  begrudge  the  Moderates  our  snug  comfortable 
churches.  I  begrudge  them  my  father's  pew.  It  bears  date 
1741,  and  has  been  held  by  the  family  through  times  of 
poverty  and  depression,  a  sort  of  memorial  of  better  days, 
when  we  could  afford  getting  a  pew  in  the  front  gallery.  But 
yonder  it  lies  empty,  within  an   empty  church,   a  place  for 

*  Disr.  Mss.  xxxi.  p.  16. 

t  Memorials  of  a  Quiet  Ministry,  p.  50. 


TEMPORAEY  PLACES  OF  WORSHIP.  227 

spiders  to  spin  undisturbed,  while  all  who  should  be  occupying 
it  take  their  places  on  stools  and  forms  in  the  factory  close."  * 

As  the  season  went  on  the  perils  of  out-door  exposure  began 
to  be  more  severely  felt.  The  Rev.  Mr.  Logan,  of  Lawers,  who 
was  appointed  by  the  Free  Presbytery  of  Breadalbane  "  to  preach 
to  tbe  adhering  people  in  Rannoch  last  Sabbath  [15th  October], 
could  find  nowhere  to  address  them,  save  on  the  shore  of  the 
loch.  It  was  the  most  inclement  day  we  have  had  this  season, 
and  twice  during  the  service  did  the  wind  reach  such  a  height 
that  the  preacher  could  not  fe.ear  his  own  voice,  and  it  is  no 
weak  one,  while  the  spray  was  ever  and  anon  falling  among  the 
congregation."  -f- 

It  was  to  escape  such  risks  that  the  wooden  churches  already 
described  were  put  up  ;  but  the  expense  was  often  greater  than 
could  be  met  in  the  face  of  other  demands,  and  simpler  expe- 
dients had  to  be  tried.  Perhaps  the  simplest  of  all  was  one 
mentioned  in  the  Witness  newspaper :  "  We  have  lately  heard 
of  a  friendly  farmer  in  the  west  who,  in  gratitude  to  God  for 
the  abundant  harvest,  has  arranged  the  stacks  in  his  stack-yard 
in  a  circle,  so  that  the  sheltered  space  within  may  accommodate 
the  Pree  Church  of  his  parish."  |  In  rendering  this  service 
to  the  congregation,  he  evidently  acted  under  the  feeling 
expressed  in  another  part  of  the  country  by  one  of  the  parish- 

*  Life  of  Hugh  Miller,  vol.  ii.  p.  383.  The  carrying  forth  of  stools  out 
of  the  parish  church  of  Cromarty  must  have  been  rather  a  remarkable  scene. 
The  time  of  seat-letting  occurred  a  few  days  after  the  Assembly  of  1 843. 
Public  intimation  was  made  of  the  day  and  hour,  and  the  sub-factor  was 
on  the  spot  to  receive  applications.  "  He  waited  in  vain.  Instead  of  the 
crowd  who  used  to  fill  pews  and  passages,  not  a  solitary  sitter  put  in  ap- 
pearance. At  the  end  of  some  hours,  as  he  sat  alone,  a  sound  was  heard, 
the  shuffling  of  feet  in  the  passages  made  it  evident  that  a  goodly  number 
of  people  were  entering  the  church.  Nor  was  the  factor  disappointed,  for 
all  the  poor  bodies  who  used  to  occupy  the  passages  came  to  take  their  seats 
— to  take  them,  however,  in  a  sense  very  different  from  the  usual  accep- 
tation of  the  term  when  applied  to  seat-letting.  For,  availing  themselves 
of  the  open  doors,  many  with  weeping  eyes  and  aching  hearts  came  to 
gather  up  their  stools,  and  take  them  away  from  the  place  where  prayer 
was  wont  to  be  made." — Witness,  7th  June,  1843. 

t   Witness,  18th  October,  1843.  J  Ibid. 


228  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 

ioners  of  Muckhart,  a  man  iu  humble  circumstances.  "  Happen- 
ing," says  Mr.  Thomson,  "  one  day  when  I  called  upon  him,  to 
remark  on  the  number  of  carriages  driven  by  the  farmers  in  the 
parish  to  the  building  of  the  church  [carting  of  materials],  in 
addition  to  their  direct  contributions,  he  said,  'But,  sir,  they 
have  gotten  it  all  back  again.'  Supposing  that  he  alluded  to 
spiritual  benefits,  I  added,  '  I  hope  they  have.'  His  answer  was : 
'  Yes,  sir,  God  has  given  them  it  all  back  again  in  giving  them 
such  a  harvest.  They  have  not  been  called  upon  to  turn  a 
stook,  nor  yet  have  they  had  to  complain  of  a  spoiled  sheaf. 
When  had  we  such  a  harvest  ? '  "  * 

In  various  localities  tents  were  procured.  It  was  a  remark- 
able example  of  the  law  of  demand  and  supply,  that  before  the 
first  Assembly  of  the  Free  Church  rose,  a  London  manufacturing 
firm  had  a  specimen  tent  pitched  close  to  Tanfield,  and  were 
ceady  to  take  orders.  The  objection  in  this  case  also  was,  that 
the  expense  was  greater  than  was  warrantable  for  a  merely 
temporary  purpose.  There  were  parishes,  however,  in  which 
they  were  employed. 

"  At  first  we  worshipped  in  the  open  air  on  a  green  at  the  end 
of  the  village  [Collace].  ,  .  .  Thereafter  a  kind  friend  in  Dundee, 
who  had  been  interested  in  the  congregation  because  of  the 
lamented  Mr.  ]\I'Cheyne's  connection  with  their  pastor,  provided 
for  us  a  spacious  canvas  tent,  under  the  roof  of  which  we  wor- 
shipped till  our  new  church  was  ready  to  receive  us.  During 
all  the  time  we  were  in  this  tent  not  a  shower  of  rain  ever 
annoyed  us  ;  once  only  there  were  a  few  drops  in  the  time  of 
public  worship.  And  this  was  the  case  also  in  regard  to  our 
week-day  meetings  in  it,  as  well  as  Sabbaths.  The  weather  was 
80  remarkable  that  many  observed  it,  and  it  was  made  a  matter 
of  public  thanksgiving.  What  led  to  the  more  impressive 
observation  of  this  matter  was  the  fact  that  in  the  following 
summer  the  weather  was  altogether  unlike  the  preceding,  many 
of  the  Sabbaths  being  wet  and  stormy ;  while,  on  the  other 
hand,  the  Sabbath  days  which  followed  the  Disruption  were  so 
favourable  to  us  in  our  tent,  that  the  first  day  of  wind  and  rain 
was  the  very  day  iu  which  we  found  ourselves  able  to  meet 
•  Dim:  Mss.  xxviii.  p.  10. 


TEMPOEAEY  PLACES  OF  WORSHIP.  229 

under  the  roof  of  the  new  church,  which,  though  not  seated, 
was  sufficiently  ready  to  afford  us  comfortable  accommodation."* 

In  the  parish  of  Forgandenny,  Mr,  Drummond  states :  "  Dur- 
ing the  summer  of  1843  we  worshipped  under  a  canvas  tent  in 
the  corner  of  a  small  field  which  lies  immediately  to  the  south 
of  the  Established  manse.  That  field,  with  a  dwelling-house 
upon  it,  had  belonged  to  my  immediate  predecessor,  Mr.  Willison. 
It  consisted  of  two  acres.  In  his  will  he  left  it  to  aid  in  support- 
ing a  small  school  at  the  Path  of  Condie,  It  was  to  be  occupied 
by  the  parish  minister  in  all  time  coming,  at  a  moderate  rent,  to 
be  fixed  by  his  executors,  who  were  to  be  four  of  the  principal 
heritors.  I  accordingly  occupied  it  till  the  term  of  Martinmas, 
1843,  and  could  not  be  dispossessed  till  then.  There  we  pitched 
our  humble  tent,  and  continued  to  hold  public  worship  as  well 
as  our  weekly  prayer  meetings,  till  the  church  was  ready  to 
receive  us.  Had  I  not  possessed  that  field,  I  verily  believe  we 
should  not  have  been  allowed  to  worship  on  the  road  side.  For 
a  while  many  of  the  people  had  a  good  deal  to  endure  in  resort- 
ing to  that  spot.  Two  ways  led  to  it,  and  there  two  of  the 
heritors  took  their  stand  for  a  number  of  Sabbaths,  watching 
and  even  threatening  those  who  ventured  to  pass  them.  Such 
conduct,  however,  only  tended  to  confirm  and  embolden  the 
adhering  people."  "f 

In  other  cases  the  parishioners,  instead  of  procuring  ready- 
made  tents,  fitted  them  up  for  themselves. 

On  Sabbath,  11th  June,  Mr.  Thomson,  of  Yester,  preached 
in  the  large  room  of  the  inn  at  Gifford  to  an  audience  of 
upwards  of  400.  As  this  place  of  meeting  could  not  be  used 
with  safety,  and  as  no  barn  or  other  place  of  worship  could  be 
procured  for  the  adhering  congregation,  it  was  resolved  to  erect 
a  tent ;  but  instead  of  purchasing  one  from  London,  a  village 
wright  was  employed.  Two  cart-loads  of  wood-thinnings  J  were 
kindly  sent  by  John  Martine,  Esq.  of  Moreham  Bank;  and 
with  these  the  walls  were  formed.  Unbleached  cloth  was  got 
from  Edinburgh  to  cover  the  walls,  and  stronger  material  from 
Dundee  to  form  the  roof     Care  was  taken  to  have  ventilation 

*  Disr.  Mss.  xxi.  p.  3.  t  Ibid.  liii.  pp.  14,  15. 

1   Witness,  21st  June,  184a. 


230  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

without  draughts,  and  in  the  course  of  a  week,  it  is  said,  the 
place  was  ready,  capable  of  containing  very  comfortably  500 
persons  ;  and  it  has  been  crowded  ever  since.  During  the  late 
very  severe  rains  it  was  not  affected  in  the  smallest  degree.  And 
to  crown  all,  the  entire  cost  will  hardly  amount  to  £17,  while 
already  the  minister  has  been  offered  half-price  for  the  materials 
when  he  has  got  his  new  church  erected. 

"  It  was  situated  in  a  very  pleasant  and  romantic  spot,  beside 
a  running  stream  and  waterfall,  the  sound  of  which  suggested  to 
a  worthy  lady  the  place  by  the  river-side, '  where  prayer  was  wont 
to  be  made,'  and  where  Lydia  *  attended  unto  the  things  spoken 
by  Paul.' "  * 

At  even  an  earlier  date,  similar  steps  had  been  taken  at 
Blairgowrie,  the  following  account  of  which  we  give  at  length, 
along  with  the  various  incidents  that  occurred  in  connection 
with  tlie  tent : — 

"  We  had  been  over  in  Edinburgh  attending  the  never-to-be- 
forgotten  Assembly  of  May,  1843,  and  returned  home  on  Friday, 
the  2nd  June,  reaching  the  manse  in  the  course  of  the  afternoon. 
The  first  object  which  greeted  our  view  was  a  large  tent  that 
had  been  erected  in  our  absence,  on  a  piece  of  ground  adjoining 
the  glebe-field,  conspicuous  from  the  manse,  and  still  more  so 
from  the  only  road  leading  up  to  the  Established  Church  ; 
so  that  it  was  impossible  to  go  there  without  beholding  this 
speaking  testimony  of  the  people's  faithfulness  to  the  crown 
rights  of  the  Kedeemer.  It  was  put  up  while  we  were  in  Edin- 
burgh at  the  General  Assembly,  begun  and  finished  in  about 
two  days,  and  capable  of  containing  nearly  a  thousand  people 
— a  labour  of  love,  in  which  many  willing  hands  and  loving 
hearts  helped.  And  it  will  ever  be  associated  in  our  memory 
as  a  sanctuary  which  God  hallowed  by  His  presence — making  it 
a  birthplace  of  souls,  and  greatly  refreshing  His  people.  We 
owed  it  mainly  to  the  kindness  of  our  dear  elder,  Mr.  John 
Thain,  shipowner  in  Dundee.  He  it  was  who  furnished  us 
with  sail-cloth  sufficient  for  its  covering ;  and,  when  finished, 
with  its  patchwork  cover  of  black  and  white  sails,  a  thinner 
piece  of  canvas  round  the  sides  serving  as  walls,  windows,  and 
*  Rev.  Dr.  Tliouison.  Paisley,  formerly  of  Yester,  Disr.  INIss.  IviL 


TEMPORARY  PLACES  OF  WORSHIP.  231 

blinds,  we  thought  it  a  wonderful  structure.  The  site  had  been 
chosen  and  materials  for  its  erection  laid  down  a  day  or  two 
before  we  went  to  the  Assembly.  And  when  Sir  William 
Chalmers,  of  Glen  Ericht,  one  of  our  heritors,  beheld  these  sure 
indications  of  the  coming  separation,  he  called  at  the  manse 
and,  with  deep  emotion,  said,  '  Oh,  Mr.  Macdonald,  is  it  really 
come  to  this!  Can  nothing  be  done  to  save  the  Disruption?' 
Although  an  Episcopalian,  he  was  deeply  concerned  at  the 
breaking-up  of  the  Establishment ;  and  when  afterwards  some 
of  the  Moderate  party  tried  to  prevent  our  having  a  bell  to 
our  Free  Church,  he  resisted  the  movement,  and  said,  '  If  they 
stop  the  bell,  I  shall  send  down  my  own  gong.' 

"  Wearied  by  all  the  exciting  scenes  through  which  we  had 
passed,  we  were  glad  to  retire  to  rest.  Next  morning,  shortly  after 
breakfast,  a  deputation  of  our  people  came  to  the  manse  with  a  re- 
quest that  we  would  allow  them  to  flit  us,  adding,  that  as  the  min- 
ister would  on  the  morrow  be  in  his  new  church,  they  would 
like  him  also  to  be  in  his  new  house.  To  this  we  could  not 
agree,  things  were  not  in  a  state  for  so  summary  a  removal ; 
and  the  confusion  we  felt  would  be  all  the  greater,  as  the  manse 
was  large,  whereas  our  new  abode  was  simply  three  rooms  and 
a  bedcloset  in  a  new  house  built  by  one  of  our  elders,  who  very 
kindly  gave  up  these  rooms  for  our  use,  whilst  his  own  family 
occupied  the  rest,  the  kitchen  being  used  between  us ;  and  we 
could  not  imagine  how  all  our  furniture  could  be  got  stowed 
away.  Besides,  it  was  Saturday,  and  we  dreaded  the  impossi- 
bility of  getting  all  settled  before  night.  In  vain,  however, 
did  we  reason.  They  continued  still  to  urge,  until  at  length 
we  consented,  and  in  a  few  minutes  men,  women,  and  children 
fell  to  work,  and  Saturday,  by  night,  we  were  fairly  settled  in 
our  new  house — nor  was  a  single  thing  missing,  nor  aught  in 
any  way  injured.  The  only  martyr  to  principle  was  our  poor 
cat.  So  strongly  was  she  attached  to  the  manse,  that  no  means 
could  prevail  on  her  to  leave  it ;  and  there  is  reason  to  fear 
that  she  came  to  an  untimely  end. 

"  Sabbath,  the  4th  June,  was  our  first  in  our  new  tent-church  ; 
and  truly  it  was  one  of  the  most  solemn,  sweet,  and  blessed 
Sabbaths  we  ever  enjoyed.     At  an  early  hour  the  tent  was 


232  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

completely  filled.  It  was  seated  for  nearly  1000  people ;  but 
as  forms  were  placed  all  round  outside  also,  the  number 
assembled  was  very  large.  There  was  just  one  door  of  entrance, 
with  a  long,  narrow  passage  leading  to  the  pulpit  at  the  other 
end.  Seats  neatly  covered  with  white  cotton  cloth  were  placed 
very  close  upon  each  other  on  both  sides,  with  a  piece  of 
board  under  each,  which,  as  every  seat  was  filled,  was  drawn 
out  and  placed  between  the  two  opposite,  so  that  there  was 
no  getting  out  or  in  till  a  general  movement  was  made  at 
the  close  of  the  service.  The  whole  ground  had  been  thickly 
laid  over  with  sawdust ;  and  when  the  minister  entered,  pre- 
ceded by  his  glebe-servant,  now  transformed  into  his  beadle, 
and  with  noiseless  step  walked  up  the  long  passage  to  the 
pulpit,  the  feelings  of  the  people  were  stirred  to  their  very 
depths,  and  many  a  tear  stole  silently  down  the  cheek.  At 
first,  when  the  psalm  was  given  out,  no  one  joined — emotion 
choked  their  utterance ;  but  at  last  a  loud  peal  of  praise  burst 
forth,  and  the  grand  Old  100th  Psalm  was  sung  with  intense 
gratitude  and  thanksgiving.  The  presence  of  the  Lord  was 
felt  throughout  the  whole  service — it  seemed,  indeed,  the 
house  of  God  and  the  very  gate  of  heaven. 

"  At  the  close  of  the  sermon  a  movement  was  made  near  the 
pulpit,  and  it  was  evident  that  some  difiiculty  or  other  had 
occurred.  This  was  soon  explained.  Two  infants  were  to  be 
presented  for  baptism ;  but  as  it  was  impossible  they  could  be 
borne  through  the  dense  crowd,  the  question  was  how  they 
could  be  got  in.  Happily  the  thought  occurred  of  cutting  the 
canvas  near  the  pulpit,  and  through  this  somewhat  novel 
entrance  the  little  ones  were  handed  in  to  the  parents  inside, 
and  were  baptised.  One,  if  not  both  of  these,  are  now  heads 
of  families.  All  the  time  we  worshipped  in  the  tent — about 
five  or  six  months — God's  answers  to  prayer  were  most  striking. 
Often  on  the  Saturdays  the  rain  poured  in  torrents,  but  by 
Sabbath  the  sun  and  wind  were  sent,  and  we  worshipped  in 
comfort."* 

There  was  one  class  of  cases  for  which  tents  were  held  to  bo 
peculiarly  adapted — those  in  which  sites  had  been  refused, 
♦  Disr.  Mss.  Iv.  pp.  2-6. 


I 


TEMPOEAEY  PLACES  OF  WORSHir.  233 

The  idea  was,  that  as  tents  were  movable,  the  people  might 
carry  their  churches  from  place  to  place,  in  search  of  some  spot 
where  standing-ground  could  be  had.  As  Mr.  Dunlop  stated 
in  the  first  General  Assembly,  "  Large  tents  had  been  provided 
which  could  hold  about  500  people,  and  which  did  not  weigh 
more  than  four  hundredweight ;  so  that  they  might  be  carried 
from  place  to  place  in  a  small  cart  or  boat  along  the  sea-shore 
from  farm  to  farm,  so  that  when  driven  from  one  quarter,  the 
people  might  escape  the  tyranny  by  transporting  them  to 
another."  * 

Occasionally  this  was  put  to  the  proof,  as  in  the  parish  of 
Fortingal,  Perthshire.  "  All  the  heritors  were  extremely  hostile, 
so  that  no  site  could  be  obtained  ;  a  tent,  however,  was  procured, 
and  erected  on  the  common  hitherto  used  as  a  market-place. 
No  sooner,  however,  did  the  laird,  on  whose  property  this 
common  lies,  get  notice  of  what  had  taken  place,  than  he 
immediately  sent  a  peremptory  order  to  have  the  tent  removed. 
The  good  people  of  Fortingal  immediately  turned  out  and 
carried  their  tent  shoulder-high  over  the  Eiver  Lyon,  and  placed 
it  safely  on  the  land  of  the  Marquis  of  Breadalbane."  f 

In  certain  districts  it  is  strange  to  think  of  the  difficulties 
which  had  to  be  overcome  before  a  footing  could  be  obtained. 

Sometimes  the  opposition  came  from  the  manse.  "  A  minister 
in  East  Lothian  wrote  to  the  Earl  of  Haddington  requesting 
him  to  prevent  a  tenant  from  giving  the  use  of  his  barn  to  a 
Free  Church  minister,  as  he  wished  to  keep  him  out  of  his 
parish.  His  Lordship  replied,  that  he  was  not  in  the  habit  of 
interfering  with  the  use  which  his  tenants  made  of  their  barns, 
and  that  the  true  way  to  get  the  Free  Churchman  out  of  the 
parish  was  to  preach  him  out."  J 

In  Fife,  the  Rev.  Mr.  Thomson,  of  St.  Ninian's,  Leith,  met 
with  a  yet  more  remarkable  experience.  "  Early  in  the  summer 
of  1843,  I  was  sent  by  the  Committee  on  the  interim  supply  of 
ordinances  to  preach  for  three  Sabbaths  at  St.  Andrews,  with 
instructions  to  preach  on  the  intervening  week  evenings  in  all 

*  Assembly  Proceedings,  1843,  p.  46. 
t   Wittiess,  22nd  July,  1843.  1  Ibid.  Ttii  October,  184a. 


234  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 

the  neighbouring  parishes.  In  these  duties  I  derived  valuable 
assistance  from  a  band  of  devoted  divinity  students.     Among 

other  parishes  my  attention  was  directed  to ,  the  minister 

of  which  had  been  heard  to  declare  that  no  Non-intrusionist 
should  ever'  enter  his  parish.  Arrangements  had  been  made 
for  a  place  of  meeting ;  a  farmer,  who  was  a  Dissenter,  having 
at  once,  on  being  applied  to,  agreed  to  place  his  barn  at  our 
service.  Accordingly  we  set  out  at  the  hour  appointed.  We 
had  not  gone  far  before  we  learned  that  adverse  influence  had 
been  brought  to  bear  upon  the  farmer,  and  that  his  barn  was 
locked  against  us.  We  proceeded  onward,  hoping  to  find  a  spot 
where  the  service  might  be  held  in  the  open  air.  When  a  little 
farther  on,  we  were  met  by  a  working  man  with  a  very  kindly 
expression,  who,  on  ascertaining  our  errand,  entreated  us  not 
to  go  forward,  as  a  party  had  been  sent  to  St.  Andrews  by 
the  minister's  son  to  purchase  a  large  quantity  of  fireworks 
which  were  to  be  thrown  at  us.  We  thanked  the  man,  but  said 
we  would  face  the  fireworks.  On  arriving  in  the  parish  we 
found  a  large  mass  of  people,  eagerly  waiting  for  us  on  the  pub- 
lic road.  We  were  told  that  no  place  could  be  got  other  than 
the  public  road,  except  one ;  '  But,'  added  our  friend,  *  it  is  a 
wood-yard,  and  we  cannot  go  there  for  fear  of  the  fireworks.'  I 
replied  at  once,  '  It  is  the  safest  of  all  places,  for  though  they 
may  not  hesitate  to  injure  us,  they  may  take  care  not  to  set  a 
wood-yard  in  a  blaze.'  We  had  a  very  quiet  and  enjoyable 
meeting,  and  though  many  efforts  were  made  to  get  up  a  dis- 
turbance, so  completely  were  all  arrested  and  subdued,  that  I 
had  a  good  opportunity  of  making  a  full  statement  of  the  prin- 
ciples of  the  Church.  On  returning  to  St.  Andrews  we  met  the 
fireworks  on  the  road,  but  alas  !  they  were  too  late."  * 

Usually,  however,  it  was  the  proprietor  and  his  factor  who 
were  eager,  if  possible,  to  suppress  the  Free  Church.  In  some 
cases  even  standing -ground  was  refused,  "  In  the  parish  of 
Logic  there  is  a  large  gravel-pit  in  a  fir  wood,  in  which  on 
sacramental  occasions  the  outdoor  congregation  used  to 
assemble.  At  other  times  it  is  a  famous  resort  of  the  gipsies. 
Their  smoke  may  be  seeu  rising  over  the  trees  six  months 
■^  Disr.  Mss.  ]ir. 


TEMPOEAEY  PLACES  OF  WORSHIP.  235 

in  the  year,  and  their  rude  tents  pitched  in  a  corner  of  the 
hollow.  Some  of  the  neighbouring  farmers  and  cottars  expressed 
a  wish  not  very  long  ago,  that  persons  so  dangerous  and  dis- 
reputable should  be  prevented  from  making  it  a  place  of  resort, 
but  tliey  were  told  by  the  proprietor's  doer  to  be  kind  to  the 
gipsies  and  they  would  find  them  harmless.  On  the  Disruption 
the  minister  of  Logie  respectfully  applied  for  leave  to  erect  his 
preaching  tent  in  the  hollow,  in  the  expectation,  fond  man,  of 
being  permitted  to  rank  with  the  gipsies.  But  alas,  no ! 
Tinkers  may  be  patronised  as  picturesque,  but  the  Free  Church 
is  dangerous,  and  so  the  use  of  the  hollow  was  promptly  and 
somewhat  indignantly  refused."  * 

In  the  parish  of  Dunbeath  the  people  were  denied  a  site,  but 
after  worshipping  during  the  summer  in  the  open  air,  they 
bethought  them  as  winter  approached,  of  "  erecting  on  a  very 
extensive  moss,  a  rude  temporary  structure  composed  of  useless 
turf,  such  as  boys  tending  cattle  on  the  hills  are  accustomed  to 
rear.  Having  witnessed  the  erection  of  many  rude  bothies  for 
the  sale  of  whisky,  where  it  had  been  well  for  the  temporal  and 
spiritual  interests  of  the  tenants  if  such  erections  had  been 
interdicted,"  the  people  concluded  that,  driven  as  they  were  to 
this  alternative,  they  would  forthwith  proceed  to  raise  this 
shieling.  They  thought  it  right,  however,  to  let  the  representa- 
tive of  the  proprietor  know  of  their  intention,  but  the  reply  to 
the  very  humble  request  of  the  people  was,  that  no  such  erection 
could  be  allowed — no  shelter  of  any  kind  could  be  given  to  the 
adherents  of  the  Free  Church.  -}- 

At  Menmuir,  Forfarshire,  the  parishioners  had  to  worship  for  a 
time  in  the  open  air.  The  village  carpenter  was  willing  to  give 
the  use  of  his  workshop,  but  the  consent  of  the  landlord  was 
necessary,  and  this  was  applied  for  in  the  most  respectful  and 
even  humble  terms.  In  answer,  they  were  told  that  there  was 
room  in  the  parish  church  ;  that  he,  the  proprietor,  had  no 
objection  to  let  those  of  them  who  were  his  tenants  resign  their 
leases  and  go  elsewhere.  "  Having  given  you  unasked  leave  of 
becoming  free,  I  must  insist,  if  you  do  not  take  advantage  of  it, 

*  Life  of  Hugh  Miller,  vol.  ii.  p.  382. 
■t"    IVitnesSj  2nd  December,  1843. 


236  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISKUPTION. 

that  you  do  nothing  in  future  to  attempt  to  intrude  on  my 
ground  any  promulgation  of  your  peculiar  views."  The  local 
press  called  attention  to  the  fact,  that  being  himself  an  Episco- 
palian, the  landlord  declined  to  attend  the  church  to  which  he 
wished  to  compel  all  his  people  to  go,  and  added — "  We  do 
much  mistake  the  spirit  of  the  Menmuir  people  generally,  if  the 
.  .  .  paltry  persecution  with  which  they  are  now  visited  do  not 
make  them  cling  closer  to  a  church  which  is  standing  up  for  the 
civil  as  well  as  the  spiritual  freedom  of  the  people."  *  This  an- 
ticipation proved  correct.  The  people  stood  fast,  and  the  cause 
of  the  Free  Church  took  firm  root  in  the  parish. 

In  the  case  of  Edzell,  another  of  these  Forfarshire  parishes, 
Lord  Panmure,  when  the  people  applied  for  a  site,  refused  their 
request  in  no  gentle  terms.  Mr.  Inglis,  however,  the  outgoing 
minister,  held  a  small  piece  of  land  on  lease  from  his  lordship, 
and  there  he  had  a  tent  erected,  but  not  in  the  first  instance  so 
successfully  as  in  the  parishes  already  referred  to.  On  Sabbath, 
the  4th  June,  he  says :  "  I  preached  at  the  manse  door  from 
Titus  ii,  13,  14.  Frail  and  infirm  persons  were  taken  into  the 
rooms  and  passages  of  the  manse  so  that  they  could  hear,  and  a 
large  congregation  were  seated  upon  hastily  made  forms  and 
upon  the  grass  at  the  door.  I  went  into  a  private  room  some- 
time before  the  hour  of  worship,  and  my  feelings  were  inde- 
scribable. I  remember  as  the  hour  drew  very  near,  that  I  was 
almost  despairing  of  any  one  coming,  when,  just  as  the  clock 
warned  to  strike,  I  heard  the  patter  of  a  single  coin  fall  into  the 
plate  which  was  near  the  window  where  I  sat.  I  was  in  such  a 
state  of  agitation  that  I  could  not  look  up  to  see  who  it  was 
that  put  it  in.  Immediately  there  was  the  patter  of  another, 
then  a  continual  patter  patter  patter,  till  I  went  out  and  stood 
at  the  table  on  which  the  Bible  and  Psalm-book  had  been  placed. 
I  did  not  miss  -many  of  the  familiar  faces  that  I  had  been 
accustomed  to  see  in  the  church,  but  how  different  the  sur- 
roundings. The  beautiful  grass  on  which  many  of  the  congre- 
gation were  reclining,  and  the  green  hedge  bounding  the  little 
lawn,  the  full-leaved  trees  skirting  one  side,  the  everlasting 
mountains  in  Lethnot  and  Lochlee,  and  the  upper  part  of 
♦    lVit7U'.ss,  22ud  July,  1843. 


TEMPOEAEY  PLACES  OF  WOESHIP.  237 

Edzell  towering  in  the  distance,  and  the  bright  midsummer 
sun  shining  down  upon  us  in  all  his  glory.  This  was  the  only 
diflBculty  which  I  provided  against  on  future  Sabbaths,  by 
driving  a  pole  into  the  ground,  tying  an  outspread  umbrella 
upon  the  top  of  it,  and  moving  round  so  as  to  keep  it  between 
me  and  the  sun.  That  sermon  was  not  preached  in  vain. 
Many  took  notice  of  it,  and  even  spoke  unto  their  dying  day  of 
the  benefits  they  had  received  from  it.  ...  I  looked  upon  this 
as  a  reward  for  all  the  sacrifices  I  had  made  and  was  making. 
[  preached  the  two  following  Sabbaths  at  the  manse  door  to 
increasing  audiences,  the  weather  continuing  so  propitious  that 
every  person  was  taking  notice  of  it. 

"  I  had  arranged  to  leave  the  manse  as  soon  as  possible,  and 
when  I  left,  the  manse  door  could  no  longer  be  the  place  of 
meeting  for  the  congregation.  Accordingly,  arrangements  were 
made  for  erecting  a  tent  on  a  piece  of  the  barren  ground  that 
I  rented,  and  only  about  one  hundred  yards  west  from  the 
parish  church,  A  framework  of  wood  was  put  up.  and  covered 
with  drugget  got  at  a  low  rate  from  a  member  of  the  congrega- 
tion. ...  On  the  25th  June  I  preached  for  the  first  time 
in  the  tent.  It  was  only  about  half  covered  with  drugget,  and 
during  the  service  a  gale  of  wind  rose  and  shook  the  frame- 
work so  much  that  the  congregation  were  greatly  alarmed. 
The  gale  increased  in  the  afternoon  and  during  the  night,  but 
the  tent  stood  till  between  five  and  six  o'clock  on  Monday 
morning,  when  a  heavy  blast  levelled  it  with  the  ground.  ,  ,  . 
The  tent  was  re-erected,  and  the  framework  strengthened  and 
covered  with  deal,  to  be  afterwards  used  in  the  rootins;  of  the 
church.  The  drugget  was  sent  to  Menmuir,  and  used  as  a  tent 
by  the  congregation  there  till  they  got  their  church  erected." 

Mr.  Inglis  goes  on  to  tell  of  a  series  of  legal  proceedings  to 
which  Lord  Panmure  and  his  factor  had  recourse  in  order  to 
break  the  lease : — "  The  secret  of  their  wish  to  get  the  land, 
and  my  desire  to  keep  it,  was  that  the  Free  Church  tent  was 
erected  upon  it ;  and  if  they  had  got  possession,  the  tent  would 
have  been  immediately  pulled  down,  and  the  congregation 
would  have  had  no  place  to  meet  in.  One  day  after  this, 
Mr,  ,  who  was  a  frequent  visitor  at  Brechin  Castle  [Lord 


238  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 

Panmure's  residence],  met  me  in  the  rauir  at  Edzell ;  and  look- 
ing to  the  tent,  which  was  a  great  eyesore  to  certain  persons, 
he  said  :  '  Do  you  know  that  Lord  Panraure  says  he  is  to  make 
a  dog-kennel  of  that  thing  V  I  immediately  replied  :  '  G-ive 
my  compliments  to  Lord  Panmure,  and  tell  him  he  must  ask 
my  leave  first.'"*  Mr.  Inglis  was  successful  in  retaining  his 
right  to  the  lease,  and  the  tent  was  undisturbed. 

It  was  in  the  North  of  Scotland,  however,  that  tents  most 
frequently  came  into  use.  They  were  of  the  best  manufacture, 
and  were  supplied  at  the  expense  of  the  general  funds  of  the 
Free  Church,  but  amid  the  storms  of  those  northern  coasts 
they  were  subjected  to  weather  of  which  their  makers  had 
evidently  little  idea.  Two  examples  which  are  here  given  will 
show  the  hardships  which  had  to  be  encountered. 

Mr.  Davidson,  of  Kilmalie,  records  his  experience : — 

"  I  preached  my  last  sermon  in  the  parish  church  on  the 
•ith  day  of  June,  1843,  and  on  the  following  Sabbath  I  preached 
in  Kilmalie  churchyard,  where  I  had  the  pleasure  of  seeing  the 
greater  part  of  the  church-going  people  of  the  parish  come  out 
along  with  me.  I  continued  to  preach  to  my  people  in  the 
churchyard  for  about  two  months,  till  we  were  excluded  by  the 
force  of  an  interdict  from  the  heritors  of  the  parish,  instigated, 
no  doubt,  by  the  Established  Presbytery  of  the  bounds. 

"  When  thus  excluded  by  interdict  from  the  churchyard,  we 
took  up  our  next  position  on  a  little  green  spot  upon  the  sea- 
shore, witliin  high-water  mark,  immediately  below  the  public 
road,  opposite  the  monument  of  Colonel  John  Cameron,  where 
we  continued  to  assemble  for  public  worship  for  a  period  of  five 
months  in  the  open  air,  without  anything  to  cover  or  protect 
us  from  the  inclemencies  of  the  weather  excepting  a  small  can- 
vas tent  for  myself.  On  this  spot  we  had  our  first  Communion 
after  the  Disruption,  on  the  30th  day  of  July,  1843,  which  was 
well  attended  from  all  parts  of  the  country. 

"From  the  1st  January,  1844,  I  preached  to  my  people  in  a 
large  canvas  tent,  capable  of  containing  from  six  hundred  to 
eight  hundred  people,  erected  close  to  the  sea-shore,  on  the  site 

*  Memorials  of  the  Disruption  in  Eilzell,  &c..  Rev.  R.  Inglis,  1872. 
pp.  14-23. 


TEMPOEAKY  PLACES  OF  WORSHIP.  239 

now  occupied  by  the  garden  attached  to  Mr.  Simpson's  cottage, 
on  the  part  to  the  west  of  the  cottage.  Under  the  cover  of  this 
large  canvas  tent  the  congregation  were  comparatively  com- 
fortable so  long  as  it  lasted — i.e.,  during  a  period  of  one  year 
and  three  months.  On  the  80th  of  March,  1845,  this  tent  was 
most  completely  destroyed  by  a  storm,  with  the  exception  of 
the  side-walls,  which  were  supported  and  protected  by  wooden 
slabs  six  feet  high  all  round.  Within  this  humble  enclosure, 
or  remains  of  the  tent,  I  was  enabled  to  preach  to  my  people 
assembled  for  public  worship  during  a  period  of  two  years  and 
four  months,  exposed  to  all  the  inclemencies  of  the  weather, 
summer  and  winter,  until  in  August,  1847,  a  wooden  shed  was 
erected  on  a  part  of  the  ground  then  at  length  given  for  » 
site  for  the  church  and  manse.  There  the  people  continued  to 
assemble  for  public  worship,  and  I  continued  to  officiate  every 
Sabbath  for  a  period  of  about  twelve  months  while  the  church 
was  a-building."  * 

On  the  Communion  Sabbath  above  referred  to,  there  was 
among  the  audience  one  who  was  well  able  to  record  his 
impressions.  "  We  attended,"  writes  Hugh  Miller,  "  about 
two  months  ago,  the  public  service  of  a  Communion  Sabbath  in 
Lochiel's  country.  The  congregation  consisted  of  from  three 
to  four  thousand  persons,  and  never  have  we  seen  finer  speci- 
mens of  our  Highland  population.  We  needed  no  one  to  tell 
us  that  the  men  at  our  side — tall,  muscular,  commanding,  from 
the  glens  of  Lochaber  and  the  shores  of  Lochiel — were  the 
descendants,  the  very  fac-similes,  of  the  warriors  whose  battle- 
cry  was  heard  farthest  amid  the  broken  ranks  at  Preston,  and 
who  did  all  that  almost  superhuman  valour  could  do  to  reverse 
the  destinies  of  Culloden.  And  yet  here  they  were  assembled 
as  if  by  stealth — the  whole  population  of  a  whole  district — 
after  being  chased  by  the  interdicts  of  the  proprietor  from  one 
spot  of  ground  to  another.  .  .  .  They  had  gone  first  to  the 
parish  burying-ground.  It  was  the  resting-place  of  their  brave 
ancestors.  One  family  had  been  accustomed  to  say,  *  This  little 
spot  is  ours  ;'  and  another,  '  This  little  spot  is  ours  ;'  and  they 
reasoned,  rationally  enough,  that  as  the  entire  area  belonged  to 
*  Paper  by  Mr.  Davidson,  Parker  Mss.,  Presb.  of  Abertarflf. 


240  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISKUPTIOJN. 

them  in  its  parts,  it  might  be  held  to  belong  to  them  as  a 
whole  also,  and  that  they  might  meet  in  it,  therefore,  to  wor- 
ship their  God  over  the  ashes  of  their  fathers.  Alas !  their 
simple  logic  was  met  by  a  stringent  interdict.  ...  As  we  stood 
and  listened,  the  rippling  dash  of  the  waves  mingled  with  the 
-voice  of  the  preacher ;  and  there,  half  on  the  beach  and  half  on 
an  unproductive  strip  of  marginal  sward,  .  .  .  did  m.eet  to  wor- 
ship God,  patient  and  unresisting,  though  grieved  and  indig- 
nant, from  three  to  four  thousand  of  the  bravest  hearts  in 
Scotland."* 

A  companion  picture  we  take  from  Durness,  a  scene  vividly 
described  by  the  Rev.  Eric  Findlater,  of  Lochearnhead,  who  had 
gone  north  to  preach  for  his  father.  The  reader  will  specially 
notice  the  characteristic  action  of  the  Highlanders,  drawing  their 
plaids  closer,  and  fixing  their  thoughts  on  the  sermon. 

The  scene  "had  nothing  very  remarkable  about  it,  at  least  for 
those  days.  It  occurred  oe  the  18th  of  February,  1844. 
During  that  month  there  had  been  a  heavy  snowstorm  in  the 
North.  Although  negotiations  were  going  on  between  the 
Duke  and  the  people  for  sites,  they  had  not  come  to  a  satisfac- 
tory conclusion,  and,  like  their  Drethren  in  the  neighbouring 
[)arishes,  my  father's  people  were  forced  to  worship  under  shelter 
of  one  of  those  canvas  tents  which  were  sent  to  various 
places  where  sites  had  been  refused,  from  Edinburgh.  In 
calm  weather  they  did  tolerably,  but  their  continued  ex- 
posure to  wet,  and  especially  the  gales  of  that  climate, 
soon  began  to  tell  on  them,  for  there,  especially  in  winter, 
Boreas  reigns.  The  one  at  Durness  was  pitched  in  a  gravel - 
pit,  in  a  centrical  part  of  the  parish.  On  the  nortli-west 
side  it  was  sheltered  by  a  Gaelic  schoolhouse,  which  belonged 
to  the  people,  and  on  the  west  by  a  high  wall,  which  they  them- 
selves built,  in  order  to  break  the  force  of  the  prevailing  wind, 
the  W.  and  S.W.  In  the  centre  of  it  stood  the  wooden  box  from 
which  the  minister  used  to  address  them  on  the  hillside — it  was, 
in  short,  a  niovable  pulpit.  In  it  I  was  preaching  on  the  said 
Sabbath  of  February.  When  about  the  middle  of  my  sermon, 
which  was  in  Gaelic,  there  came  on  a  snow-shower,  accompanied 
*  Witness,  27tli  September  and  7th  October,  1843. 


TEMPOKAKY  PLACES  OF  WORSHIP.  241 

by  a  fierce  blast  from  the  north.  The  consequence  was  that 
the  cloth  gave  way — it  was  rent  from  top  to  bottom.  The 
people  sat  still,  while  a  few  of  the  more  active  young  men, 
expert  at  the  furling  of  sails,  from  their  intimacy  with  the  sea, 
in  fewer  minutes  than  I  take  to  describe  it,  laid  hold  of  the 
fluttering  mass,  and  secured  it  to  the  poles  with  its  own  cords. 
I  then  turned  my  back  to  the  blast,  and  having  Covered  my 
head  with  a  handkerchief,  went  on  and  finished  my  discourse. 
The  people  crouched  a  little  closer  to  each  other,  and  adjusted 
their  cloaks  and  plaids,  and  then  continued  to  listen  as  if 
nothing  had  happened.  If  they  thought  of  their  ill-advised 
landlord,  it  was  but  for  a  moment,  for  they  seemed  to  feel  as 
if  their  business  was  with  One,  from  listening  to  whose  mes- 
sage not  even  the  wrath  of  men  ought  to  move  them." 

"  The  scene  where  this  incident  occurred  lies  about  a  quarter 
of  a  mile  from  the  sea-shore,  but  overlooking  the  ocean.  On  a 
fine  day  it  is  a  fair  prospect  that  presents  itself  to  the  eye. 
In  the  foreground  there  are  some  high  rocks,  farther  in  the 
distance  the  Whiten  Head  stands  majestically  forth,  as  if  doing 
homage  to  the  Northern  Ocean  as  the  rays  of  the  evening  sun 
fall  upon  its  venerable  but  wrinkled  face,  while  in  the  distance 
appear  the  storm-swept  Orcades,  their  dissolving  blue  com- 
mingling with  that  of  the  sky ;  but  on  such  a  day  as  that  it 
was  a  far  difierent  picture.  The  shore  was  one  continued  line 
of  foam  and  spray.  The  multitudinous  waves  lifted  up  not 
only  their  crests,  but  their  voices.  The  Whiten  Head  looked 
sullen  from  under  a  cloud,  while  the  Orkney  Islands  were  hid 
in  the  womb  of  the  storm.  Yet,  while  we  were  worshipping 
under  such  circumstances,  the  lord  of  the  soil  on  which  we 
stood  was  perhaps  worshipping  the  same  God  under  the  roof 
of  some  aisled  and  groined  cathedral  in  his  cushioned  pew,  his 
eyes  delighted  with  dim  religious  light,  and  his  ears  regaled 
with  the  sounds  of  the  solemn  organ."  * 

The  incidents  and  details  now  given  will  enable  the  reader 

to  form  some  idea  of  the  difficulties  with  which  pastors  and 

people   had   to   contend   all    over   Scotland,    and    what    were 

*  Disr.  Mss.  Iri. 

R 


Ifii 


242  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISKUPTION. 


the  strange  circumstances  under  which  the  worship  of  God 
had  to  be  conducted.  Our  Presbyterian  Churches,  it  is  well 
known,  do  not  recognise  the  peculiar  sanctity  of  consecrated 
buildings — the  sacredness  of  divine  worship,  according  to 
their  ideas,  depending  rather  on  the  spirituality  and  devout- 
ness  of  mind  with  which  the  worshippers  draw  near  to  God. 
Under  the  pressure  of  necessity,  indeed,  in  that  season  of 
1843,  there  was  no  alternative  ;  all  external  circumstances  were 
lost  sight  of  in  far  higher  thoughts.  Barns  and  stables,  and 
old  mills  and  granaries,  wool-stores  and  malt-barns,  and  cart- 
sheds  and  saw-pits,  and  wooden  churches  and  tents — all  kinds 
of  accommodation  were  welcome  anywhere,  under  any  roof 
that  could  give  them  shelter ;  and  when  everything  else  failed, 
then  out  in  the  open  air,  among  the  green  fields  and  glens. 
It  was  amid  such  strange  surroundings  that  from  week  to 
week  hundreds  of  thousands  of  the  most  earnest  minds  in 
Scotland  came  together  for  the  worship  of  God.  If  one 
could  combine  into  a  single  picture  these  various  scenes, 
it  would  form  a  spectacle  such  as  no  country  in  modern 
times  has  witnessed,  and  one  which,  in  the  estimation  of  many, 
is  not  altogether  unworthy  to  be  associated  with  the  memories 
of  former  days  of  trial  and  struggle.  Many  a  time  under  those 
lowly  roofs,  or  out  on  those  bare  hillsides,  men's  thoughts 
went  back  to  the  days  of  persecution  when  our  covenanting 
forefathers  met  for  the  worship  of  God  amid  the  glens  and 
moors  of  our  native  land,  or  to  scenes  associated  with  memories 
more  sacred  still — the  river-side  at  Philippi,  where  prayer  was 
wont  to  be  made — the  boat  floating  on  the  Sea  of  Galilee,  out 
of  which  One  spake  as  man  never  spake — or  the  lonely  desert 
which  the  presence  of  God  turned  into  a  Bethel,  the  very  gate 
of  heaven. 

But  without  attempting  to  follow  out  such  thoughts,  we 
turn  to  the  statements  of  those  ministers  and  people  who  were 
actually  engaged  in  these  services. 

"  At  one  time  I  was  called,"  says  Mr.  M'Indoe,  of  Galston, 
in  describing  his  experience  during  the  summer  of  1843,  "to 
address  an  audience  in  an  open  shed,  at  another  in  a  splendid 
hall,   and   again    in   a   crowded   schoolroom,  with   temporary 


TEMPOEAKY  PLACES  OF  WORSHIP.  243 

wooden  erections,  where  the  people  could  only  obtain  an  occa- 
sional glimpse  of  the  minister.  Most  encouraging,  however,  it 
was  to  witness  the  humble  peasant  and  the  titled  nobility 
pouring  their  offerings  into  the  treasury  of  the  Lord,  and  after- 
wards taking  their  seats  on  the  same  bench,  and  listening  with 
eagerness  to  the  words  of  eternal  life."  * 

"  When  the  weather  permitted,"  writes  Mr.  Gibson,  of  Kirk- 
bean,  "  we  met  in  the  open  air,  and  served  God  in  the  open 
plain,  or  on  the  mountain-side,  or  along  the  sea-shore.  As 
attested  by  many,  these  were  precious  Sabbaths,  sweet  times  to 
souls.     Jehovah  Shammah — the  Lord  was  there."  -'- 

Such  testimonies  on  the  part  of  ministers  it  is  not  needful 
to  multiply. 

Erom  among  the  hearers,  we  may  refer  to  a  letter  of  Mrs. 
Coutts,  well  known  in  the  Edinburgh  circles  of  that  day,  as 
one  whose  heart  and  whose  wealth  were  consecrated  to  the 
cause  of  Christ.  She  writes  from  the  Bridge-of-Earn :  "  In 
the  coal-shed  which  we  have  as  a  tent,  I  have  sat  five  Sabbaths 
with  much  delight,  with  between  600  and  700  worshippers.  I 
do  think  ministers  and  people  seem  enlarged  and  solemnised."  J 

In    greater  detail,  and  with  his  own  graphic  power,  Hugh 

Miller   conducts    us   into   the    midst  of  one    of  these    lowly 

assemblies.     In  the  Island  of  Eigg,  "  the  building  in  which  the 

congregation  meets  is  a  low  dingy  cottage  of  turf  and  stone. 

.  .  .  We  found  the  congregation  already  gathered,  and  that  the 

very  bad  morning  had  failed  to  lessen  their  numbers.     There 

were  a  few  of  the  male  parishioners  keeping  watch  at  the  door, 

looking   wistfully    out   through   the   fog    and    rain   for   their 

minister ;  and  at  his  approach  nearly  twenty  more  came  issuing 

from  the  place,  like  carder  bees  from  their  nest  of  dried  grass 

and  moss,  to  gather  round  him  and  shake  him  by  the  hand.  .  .  . 

Earely  have  I  seen  human  countenances  so  eloquently  vocal 

with   veneration    and   love.  .  .  .  The   rude   turf  building   we 

found  full  from  end  to  end,  and  all  asteam  with  a  particularly 

wet  congregation,  some  of  whom,  neither  very  robust  nor  youno-, 

had  travelled  in  the  soaking  drizzle  from  the  further  extremities 

*  Disr.  Mss.  xxxv.  p.  9.  t  Disr.  Mss.  xxiii.  p.  4. 

X  INIemoir  of  Mrs.  Coutts,  p.  391. 


244  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 

of  the  island.  And  judging  from  the  serious  attention  with 
which  they  listened  to  the  discourse,  they  must  have  deemed  it 
full  value  for  all  it  cost  them.  I  have  never  yet  seen  a  con- 
gregation more  deeply  impressed,  or  that  seemed  to  follow  the 
preacher  more  intelligently;  and  I  was  quite  sure,  though 
ignorant  of  the  language  in  which  my  friend  addressed  them, 
that  he  preached  to  them  neither  heresy  nor  nonsense.  There 
was  as  little  of  the  reverence  of  externals  in  the  place  as  can  well 
be  imagined.  An  uneven  earthen  floor — turf  walls  on  every 
side  and  a  turf  roof  above ;  two  little  windows  of  four  panes 
apiece,  adown  which  the  rain-drops  were  coursing  thick  and 
fast ;  a  pulpit  grotesquely  rude,  that  had  never  employed  the 
bred  carpenter ;  and  a  few  ranges  of  seats  of  undressed  deal. 
Such  were  the  mere  materialisms  of  this  lowly  church  of  the 
people ;  and  yet  here,  notwithstanding,  was  the  living  soul  of  a 
Christian  community,  understandings  convinced  of  the  truth  of 
the  Gospel,  and  hearts  softened  and  impressed  by  its  power."  * 

Yet  another  of  these  scenes  we  have  it  in  our  power  to  give, 
interesting  in  itself,  and  important  as  an  indication  of  how  much 
our  Church  owes  to  the  services  of  that  first  summer,  not  only 
in  large  congregations,  but  in  retired  rural  districts. 

"  During  the  summer  of  1843,  my  father's  family  resorted 
for  country  quarters,  as  we  had  done  for  some  summers  before, 
to  that  part  of  the  parish  of  Eoseneath  which  looks  out  on  Loch 
Long,  and  down  towards  Dunoon  and  Arran.  In  previous 
seasons  the  pedestrian  part  of  the  family  used  to  cross  the  moor 
to  the  parish  church  of  Eoseneath,  while  those  who  were  not  up 
to  walking  proceeded  to  the  same  destination  in  a  seated  cart, 
by  the  beautiful  road  which,  after  winding  at  some  height  above 
the  sea  in  full  view  of  Arran  and  the  Gourock  and  Greenock 
hills,  turns  inland  through  a  valley,  and  crossing  a  peninsula, 
emerges  again  on  the  sheltered  shores  of  the  Gareloch,  and 
follows  them  up  to  the  clachan  of  Eoseneath. 

"  The  arrangements  for   the  Disruption  congregation  were 

made  by  Mr.   Lome  Campbell,  the  excellent  commissioner  of 

that  part  of  the  Argyll  estates.     A  saw-pit,  adaptable  beyond 

most  saw-pits,  was  utilised  for  the  purpose.     It  was  in  the  valley 

*  Witness,  19th  Apri],  1845. 


TEMPOEARY  PLACES  OF  WOESHIP.  245 

above  referred  to,  and  not  very  far  from  the  site  of  the  present 
Free  Church,  but  nearer  the  Gareloch,  if  I  remember  right. 
The  sawn  planks  helped  the  accommodation,  and  I  am  not  sure 
but  some  shelter  was  knocked  up  which  partly  protected  the 
congregation  ;  or  rather,  a  few  of  them,  for  most  of  us  sat  sub 
jove.  It  was  a  beautiful  summer,  and  I  remember  some  very 
hot  Sundays.  I  remember  still  more  the  animation  of  the 
preaching,  and  the  cordiality  of  the  hearing  ;  some  who  are  gone 
hence  are  much  associated  in  my  mind  with  the  peculiar  mood 
of  thankfulness,  tenderness,  and  hope  which  characterised  these 
Sabbaths  of  1848.     That  year  made  me  a  minister."* 

At  last  these  memorable  months  passed  away,  and  in  October, 
when  the  General  Assembly  met  at  Glasgow,  presided  over  by 
Dr.  Brown,  of  St.  John's,  one  of  the  most  devout  and  earnest 
men  who  ever  sat  in  that  place  of  honour,  this  was  his  testi- 
mony, as  given  from  the  moderator's  chair  : 

Our  ministers  "  have  gone  forth  and  scattered  the  seed  of 
the  "Word  in  every  corner.  They  have  preached  by  the  sea- 
shore or  the  river's  brink,  in  the  retired  glen  or  the  mountain- 
side, and  in  many  instances  with  powerful  and  blessed  effect. 
In  many  of  the  districts  which  they  visited,  the  doctrine  which 
they  preached  or  their  mode  of  preaching  it  was  new.  In  many 
corners  the  cold  chilling — at  best  but  moral — disquisitions 
and  addresses  issuing  from  many  pulpits  (we  make  exceptions), 
had  induced  an  apathetic  indifference  to  the  things  of  God 
and  eternity ;  but  the  soul-melting,  heart-subduing  strains  of 
the  Gospel,  accompanied  by  stirring  appeals  to  the  conscience, 
aroused,  and  captivated,  and  enchained  many.  Many  a  parched 
spot  has  thus  been  watered  and  refreshed,  and  many  a  soul,  wc 
doubt  not,  has  been  brought  to  a  knowledge  of  the  truth,  and 
won  to  the  Saviour.  Had  no  other  good  effects  flowed  from  the 
Disruption,  this  of  itself  is  a  blessed  consummation,  proving 
that  God  can  and  will  bring  good  out  of  evil;  for  oh !  what  are 
all  our  movements  to  be  directed  to,  what  are  we  to  covet  and 
sigh  for,  but  that  a  people  may  be  gained  unto  the  Lord,  and 
brands  plucked  from  the  everlasting  burning."  f 

*  Statement  by  Principal  Rainy,  New  College,  Edinburgh, 
t  Assembly  Pioceeding>!,  Glasgow,  1843,  p.  178. 


246  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 


XXIII,  Church  Building. 

We  have  thus  seen  what  a  happy  time  of  blessing  it  was  during 
the  bright  days  of  that  first  summer  after  the  Disruption.  All 
temporary  inconveniences  in  those  strange  meeting-places  were 
welcomed  and  made  light  of  The  very  novelty  of  the  scene, 
the  freedom  from  conventional  restraint,  gave  zest  and  interest 
to  the  service ;  men  felt  they  were  acting  under  a  sense  of  duty ; 
the  heart  was  enlarged,  and  never  was  there  deeper  earnestness 
and  never  brighter  or  happier  Sabbaths.  But  the  stormy  months 
of  a  Scottish  winter  were  coming,  the  building  of  substantial 
churches  was  obviously  a  matter  of  urgent  necessity,  and  ere- 
long architects  and  tradesmen  in  every  district  of  Scotland  had 
their  energies  taxed  to  the  uttermost.  As  Mr.  Lewis,  of  Dundee, 
expresses  it,  "  All  were  now  as  busy  building  as  before  in  battling 
for  our  freedom,  that  we  might  again  raise  our  heads  as  a 
Church  in  the  land."  *  Before  the  month  of  June  was  past, 
one  of  the  ministers  wrote :  "  An  acute  sense  of  the  dangers 
of  winter  is  the  reason  why  at  all  hazards  the  resolution  was 
taken  yesterday  to  begin  the  work  of  building  instantly,  and 
to-day  I  shook  hands  with  a  tenant  driving  his  own  horses  with 
the  first  two  carts  of  lime,  while  others  are  loading  the  sand.  .  .  . 
One  carpenter  subscribes  six  weeks'  work."  f 

The  most  formidable  difficulty,  however,  was  to  know  where 
the  funds  were  to  come  from.  If  the  600  or  700  churches 
were  to  be  of  stone  and  lime,  roofed  and  slated,  and  properly 
fitted  up  inside,  would  not  the  cost  be  enormous — out  of  all 
proportion  to  the  resources  of  the  people?      The  committee 

*  Parker  Mss.,  Tics,  of  Dundee.     Paper  by  Rev.  G.  Lewis.,  p.  13. 
t  Witness,  28tli  June,  1843. 


CHUECH  BUILDING.  247 

sitting  at  headquarters  in  Edinburgh  gave  it  as  their  opinion, 
in  February,  1843,  that  "  the  expense  of  such  erections  for  all 
the  congregations  of  the  Church,  even  on  the  most  moderate 
scale  of  expense  for  buildings  of  that  description,  would  exceed 
half-a-million  sterling,  and  any  attempt  therefore  to  realise  the 
object  in  that  way  would  at  once  crush  and  overwhelm  the 
Church  under  an  insuperable  load,  and  leave  it  struggling 
after  an  unattainable  object,  with  its  energies  cramped  and 
paralysed."  * 

Holding  these  views — and  it  was  impossible  to  judge  other- 
wise at  the  time — there  had  been  much  serious  deliberation 
among  our  leading  men.  The  advice  of  eminent  architects 
and  builders  had  been  taken,  and  the  results  were  brought  out 
by  Dr.  Candlish,  so  early  as  the  great  West  Church  meeting, 
held  in  August,  1841.  On  that  memorable  occasion — one  of  the 
marked  turning-points  of  the  conflict — two  announcements  were 
made  which  had  no  small  influence  on  the  course  of  events. 
First,  it  was  in  contemplation  to  erect  churches  partly  of  wood 
and  partly  of  brick,  roofed  with  felt,  and  if  such  buildings  were 
heated  and  ventilated  on  approved  principles,  they  would  be 
found  suSiciently  comfortable,  and  might  be  put  up  at  moderate 
expense.  This  was  followed  by  the  still  more  important  sug- 
gestion that  the  wealthy  congregations  in  towns  and  the  poorer 
congregations  in  the  country  should  go  hand  in  hand,  uniting 
to  raise  a  general  building  fund,  out  of  which  all  should  receive 
share  and  share  alike.  Among  the  pre-Disruption  ministers 
who  still  survive,  there  must  be  some  who  can  to  this  day 
recall  the  sense  of  relief  with  which  these  announcements 
were  welcomed.  When  the  great  enterprise  of  church 
building  was  placed  on  this  footing,  men  began  to  see  their 
way,  as  if  the  undertaking  were  fairly  brought  within  the 
limits  of  possibility,  and  might  really  be  entered  on  with  some 
hope  of  success. 

At  last  the  time  came  when  such  general  suggestions  had  to 
be  put  in  shape,  and  practically  carried  out.  A  building  com- 
mittee was  appointed,  having  at  its  head  Mr.  John  Hamilton, 
advocate,  one  of  the  Church's  most  esteemed  and  ablest  laymen. 
■*  First  Circulax,  p.  2. 


248  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISKUPTION. 

With  great  wisdom,  as  the  event  proved,  it  was  resolved  that 
money  should  be  raised  in  two  ways.  First,  there  was  to  be 
the  general  fund  already  spoken  of,  but  along  with  that  there 
was  to  be  a  local  fund  in  each  parish,  every  separate  congrega- 
tion being  expected  to  do  what  they  could  for  themselves.  In 
this  way  the  generous  feelings  of  the  richer  congregations  were 
powerfully  appealed  to,  urging  them  to  do  their  utmost  in  aid 
of  their  poorer  brethren  in  remote  localities  ;  while,  on  the  other 
hand,  the  weaker  congregations  were  encouraged  and  stimulated 
by  the  knowledge  that  they  had  behind  them  the  general 
funds  of  the  Church  on  which  to  lean.  Detailed  plans  of  those 
brick  churches,  along  with  practical  suggestions,  were  sent  forth 
to  all  corners  of  the  land. 

Everything  was  now  ready  for  action — plans  were  adjusted, 
and  on  the  eve  of  the  Disruption,  when  the  event  had  become 
inevitable,  the  actual  appeal  for  funds  was  sent  forth.  The 
result  proved  a  signal  rebuke  to  many  whose  faith  had  been 
weak,  God,  whose  is  the  silver  and  gold,  touched  the  hearts 
of  His  people,  and  the  flow  of  contributions  which  came 
into  the  treasury  was  like  the  rush  of  pent-up  waters.  From 
the  wealthier  members,  gifts  followed  in  rapid  succession  of 
from  £100  to  £500  and  £1000.  But  far  more  important  were 
the  contributions  of  the  middle  classes  and  the  poor,  who  pressed 
eagerly  forward,  as  if  they  felt  that  this  was  a  great  national 
Christian  work  in  which  they  must  be  allowed  to  have  their 
part.  A  few  days  after  the  Disruption  had  taken  place,  it  was 
announced  in  the  General  Assembly  that  the  contributions  to 
the  two  branches  of  the  building  fund,  general  and  local, 
amounted  together  to  £104,776.  By  the  time  the  next 
Assembly  came  round,  there  had  been  added  a  sum  of  £123,060, 
and  during  the  succeeding  year,  a  further  sum  of  £131,737  had 
been  raised,  so  that  by  the  month  of  May,  1845 — two  years 
after  the  Disruption — the  free-will  ofiferings  of  the  people  for  the 
building  of  their  churches  alone  had  risen  to  the  sum  of  £359,573. 
And  beyond  this  there  was  the  value  of  ground  given  for  sites, 
materials,  and  driving  free  of  charge,  and  gratuitous  labour, 
representing  in  all  a  very  large  additional  sum. 

The  great  difficulty,  however,  in  some  parts  of  the  country  was 


CHURCH  BUILDING.  249 

to  obtain  a  site  on  which  to  build.  Already  we  have  seen  how 
hard  it  was  in  many  parishes  to  get  ground  on  which  to  set  up  a 
tent  or  wooden  shed.  The  objection  was,  of  course,  still  greater 
when  it  came  to  actual  church  building.  In  the  long  run,  the 
more  flagrant  cases  of  site-refusing  had  to  be  brought  before  a 
committee  of  the  House  of  Commons  ;  but  these  we  reserve  for 
separate  notice  in  a  future  section.  In  the  meantime,  it  may 
be  interesting  to  mention  some  of  the  parishes  in  which 
difficulties  were  overcome,  and  sites  obtained  at  an  earlier 
period. 

Here,  however,  it  is  only  right  to  make  due  acknowledgment 
of  the  honourable  conduct  of  Lord  Aberdeen.  During  the  Teu 
Years'  Conflict,  so  long  as  the  fight  went  on,  the  Church  had  no 
more  determined  or  formidable  opponent,  but  no  sooner  had 
the  Disruption  taken  place  on  a  scale  so  different  from  what  he 
had  been  taught  to  expect,  than  he  at  once  acted  towards  the 
members  of  the  Free  Church  in  the  most  kind  and  liberal  spirit. 
In  the  parish  of  Fyvie,  when  Mr.  Manson  and  his  friends  applied 
for  a  site — which  they  did  with  many  misgivings — an  immediate 
reply  came  from  his  lordship  at  the  Foreign  Office,  expressing 
his  difference  of  opinion,  and  his  deep  regret  at  the  step  which 
they  had  seen  it  to  be  their  duty  to  take,  but  frankly  agreeing  to 
give  them  all  the  accommodation  they  required. 

In  the  neighbouring  parish  of  Methlic,  where  the  family 
residence,  Haddo  House,  is  situated,  he  acted  in  a  way  not  less 
considerate  and  kind.  The  whole  account  deserves  to  be  given, 
though  it  somewhat  anticipates  the  course  of  events. 

The  parish  minister  was  opposed  to  the  Free  Church,  and  the 
earlier  movements  in  favour  of  the  cause  had  been  on  a  slender 
scale.  The  first  meeting  in  the  parish  was  held  by  Mr.  M'Cheyne 
in  February ,  1843,  when  a  deep  impression  was  produced,  but  only 
seven  individuals  signed  the  Convocation  resolutions.  A  second 
meeting  was  held  on  the  10th  of  June,  one  of  the  farmers  giving 
his  barn  in  spite  of  a  "  home-made  interdict  by  the  factor." 
Between  two  hundred  and  three  hundred  people  attended,  more 
than  the  barn  could  hold,  and  were  addressed  by  the  Kev.  G. 
Garioch,  of  Old  Meldrum.  When  the  Disruption  took  place, 
only  nine  persons  left  the  Establishment,  and  these  all  joined 


250  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

Free  Church  congregations  in  the  neighbourhood.  In  the  end 
of  1843,  application  for  the  supply  of  ordinances  was  made  to 
the  Free  Presbytery,  but  they  were  unable  to  comply. 

"  Little  more  was  done  for  Methlic  for  a  considerable  time, 
but  in  July,  1846,  Francis  Main  .  .  .  went  to  a  meeting  of 
Presbytery  at  Ellon,  and  with  tears  besought  them  to  do  some- 
thing for  Methlic.  The  result  was,  that  the  Presbytery  agreed 
to  give  services  on  each  alternate  Sabbath,  the  Presbytery  having 
by  this  time  been  increased  by  the  addition  of  Mr.  Garioch, 
Old  Meldrum,  and  Mr.  Moir,  of  New  Machar. 

"  The  first  who,  in  accordance  with  this  resolution,  preached 
in  Methlic  was  the  Eeverend  Mr.  Brown,  of  Cruden,  Mr. 
Philip  having  by  this  time  been  translated  to  Dunfermline. 
In  the  forenoon  he  preached  in  a  grass  field  on  the  south  side  of 
the  parish  to  a  congregation  of  200,and  in  the  afternoon  in  a  grass 
field,  on  the  north  side,  to  a  congregation  of  about  800.  The  next 
who  preached  was  Mr.  Moir,  of  New  Machar,  to  fully  as  large 
eongregations.  At  this  time  Mr.  William  Grant,  merchant  in  the 
village,  had  fitted  up  a  hall  for  his  own  convenience ;  but  also 
as  a  place  where  public  meetings  might  be  held.  It  was 
rumoured  that  Mr.  Grant  would  be  willing  to  let  the  hall  for 
£10  per  annum.  I  consulted  with  Mr.  Moir  about  the  pro- 
priety of  taking  it,  on  condition  that  the  Presbytery  would  give 
occasional  help  in  the  way  of  supply.  Next  day  I  went  down 
and  spoke  to  Mr.  Grant  about  it,  when  he  said  that  if  we  were 
willing  to  give  £10  he  would  provide  seats  and  let  us  have  it. 
The  bargain  was  made  ;  and  here  I  would  say,  and  would  like 
to  have  it  recorded,  that  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Grant,  although  mem- 
bers of  the  Established  Church,  were  most  kind  and  obliging, 
and  at  considerable  inconvenience  lodged  our  probationers  for 
more  than  two  years,  when  no  other  house  sufiicient  could  be 
had  in  the  parish.  We  entered  the  hall  on  the  23rd  August, 
184G,  and  had  it  filled  to  the  door  every  Sabbatli. 

"  We  then  commenced  a  Sabbath  school.  With  the  exception 
of  the  minister's  class,  there  was  no  such  thing  in  the  parish. 
But  no  sooner  had  we  set  one  agoing  than  the  Established 
Church  had  one  begun  alongside  of  it. 

"  Towards  the  end  of  the  same  year  we  had  two  lectures  on 


CHUECH  BUILDING.  251 

the  difference  between  the  Free  and  the  Established  Churches. 
They  were  well  attended,  and  numbers  gcxve  in  their  adherence, 
though  not  a  few  went  back  afterwards. 

"  Our  first  probationer  was  the  Eev.  Mr.  Duncan,  a  good 
minister  in  every  sense  of  the  word  ;  one  who,  if  spared,  would 
have  left  his  mark.  After  a  while  he  was  settled  at  Gartly, 
and  preached  only  four  Sabbaths,  when  he  was  laid  aside  by 
sickness,  and  did  not  live  long  after.  After  this  our  pulpit  was 
generally  supplied  by  probationers  or  students  from  Aberdeen, 
and  very  frequently  by  Mr.  Alexander  Laing,  an  elder  in  Aber- 
deen, whose  services  were  very  much  prized. 

"  On  the  first  day  of  the  year  1847  Mr.  John  Brown,  Mr. 
James  Davidson,  Gowanwell,  and  Mr.  John  Burnett,  watch- 
maker, Tarves,  were  appointed  by  the  congregation  to  apply  to 
the  Earl  of  Aberdeen  for  a  site  for  a  church.  In  due  time  John 
Burnett  and  I  went  and  presented  to  his  lordship  a  petition  to 
this  efi'ect,  signed  by  between  200  and  300  adherents.  His 
lordship  frankly  said  that  we  would  get  a  site,  after  he  had 
looked  over  the  names  to  see  where  the  parties  signing  were 
located,  as  he  wanted  to  give  also  a  croft  large  enough  to  keep  two 
cows  and  a  pony.  On  this  assurance  we  busied  ourselves  raising 
funds  for  the  building  of  a  church.  But  April  had  now  arrived, 
and  we  had  heard  nothing  about  the  site.  I  thought  of  writing 
his  lordship,  then  in  London,  about  the  promised  site,  which  I 
did,  and  in  three  or  four  days  after  I  got  a  note  from  his  factor, 
saying  that  he  would  meet  us  on  a  certain  day  to  arrange  about 
the  site.  We  met  in  due  course.  The  first  site  he  ofi'ered  us 
was  two  miles  from  the  Parish  Church,  and  within  two  miles 
of  the  U.P.  Church  of  Savoch.  This  we  refused.  He  then 
offered  us  one  a  mile  and  three-quarters  from  the  parish 
church.  This  we  also  refused,  as  not  at  all  centrical,  and  as 
we  had  mentioned  in  our  petition  to  his  lordship  that  we 
desired  a  site  in  or  not  far  from  the  village.  Some  time  after 
the  factor  wrote  to  us  that  he  would  try  again  to  satisfy  us. 
According  to  appointment,  we  met  with  him,  when  he  offered 
us  the  site  on  which  the  church  is  now  built,  less  rather  than 
half-a-mile  from  the  parish  church.  Plans  and  specifications 
for  our  church  were  prepared  by  Mr.  James  Henderson,  Abcr- 


252  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION.' 

deen.  The  building  went  on  as  quickly  as  possible,  and  on  the 
6th  of  Aucjust,  1848,  it  was  opened  by  Professor  M'Laggan, 
Free  Church  College,  Aberdeen,  The  collection  on  that  occa- 
sion amounted  to  £23. 

"  Having  thus  got  the  church  erected,  our  next  object  was  the 
providing  of  a  manse,  as  there  was  no  convenient  house  for  a 
minister  to  live  in.  We  applied  to  the  factor  to  make  out  our 
lease,  as  we  might  proceed  at  once  to  build  part  of  a  manse. 
He  sent  word  to  the  local  land-surveyor  to  draw  a  plan  of  the 
piece  of  ground  on  which  the  church  was  built,  including  aa 
much  more  as  would  be  half-an-acre.  Immediately  to  the 
south  of  the  church  lay  a  bog,  and  it  came  out  that  this  was 
to  be  included  in  the  half-acre,  and  was  to  be  the  site  for  the 
manse.  On  hearing  this  I  went  into  Aberdeen,  a  distance  of 
24  miles,  called  on  the  factor,  and  said  I  had  come  to  see  about 
a  site  for  the  manse.  He  took  out  the  plan  prepared,  and 
showed  me  the  place.  I  said,  '  It  would  not  do  ;  we  would 
never  build  in  such  a  place  ;  we  would  like  it  on  the  New  Deer 
Road,  opposite  the  church.'  He  said  he  would  come  out  and 
look  at  the  ground  again.  But  I  said  I  would  not  meet  any 
more  with  him,  as  there  was  little  likelihood  of  getting  things 
right ;  that  I  had  travelled  so  much  already,  hither  and  thither, 
that  I  would  put  the  case  into  the  hands  of  the  Presbytery.  I 
asked  him  whether  he  would  be  willing  to  meet  with  a  deputa- 
tion from  the  Presbytery  in  the  matter.  He  said  he  would. 
Tiie  Presbytery  met  at  Old  Lleldrum,  and  I  went  to  it,  and 
stated  our  case,  askmg  them  to  appoint  a  committee  of  their 
immber  to  wait  on  the  factor.  This  they  did,  appointing  the 
Eev.  Mr.  Archibald  of  Udny,  with  Mr.  Manson  of  Kilblean, 
and  Mr.  Harvey  of  Tillygrieg.  In  pursuance  of  this  resolution 
of  the  Presbytery,  Rev.  Mr.  Archibald  called  on  the  factor,  at 
his  office  in  Aberdeen,  to  arrange  regarding  the  time  when  he 
would  meet  the  deputation  from  the  Presbytery  at  MethUc.  He 
said  he  would  not  go  out  to  Methlic,  he  had  given  them  a  site  for 
a  manse,  and  if  they  would  not  accept  it  they  would  get  no  other. 

"  When  we  were  made  acquainted  with  this  decision  of  the 
factor,  we  resolved  to  have  a  congregational  meeting  ;  and  such 
meeting  was  duly  held,  when  it  was  unanimously  agreed  that 


CHUKCH  BUILDlNa.  253 

the  whole  proceedings  in  the  case  should  be  laid  before  the 
Earl  of  Aberdeen.  This  having  been  done  by  letter,  a  day  was 
appointed  for  meeting  his  lordship.  I  went.  His  first  remark 
was  to   this  effect :  '  You  seem  to  think  that  my  factor,  Mr. 

,  has   been    dealing    deceitfully   by   you.'      I   answered, 

'  We  don't  say  that ;  we  only  say  that  he  does   not  see  the 

matter  in   the    proper   light.'      His  lordship  saidj  ' says 

he  cannot  give  you  a  site  any  other  way,  because  the  New  Deer 
Road  passes  between  the  church  and  the  site  you  want.'  I 
answered  his  lordship  that  his  factor's  case  was  worse,  for  he 
was  putting  a  burn  as  well  as  a  road  between  the  church  and 
the  manse  on  his  site  ;  and  I  took  my  staff  and  drew  the  plan 
in  either  case  on  the  carpet,  when  his  lordship  said,  '  Oh,  I 
see  it  now !  It  is  long  since  I  have  been  in  that  place,  but  I 
remember  it  now.  You  will  have  your  site  where  you  please. 
I  wish  to  do  as  well  to  you  Free  Church  people  as  to  the 
others.  You  will  get  the  site  you  want,  and  as  much  land,  and 
inland,  too,  mind  that,  as  will  keep  two  cows  and  a  pony.' 
After  this,  when  building  ojSice  houses  in  connection  with  the 
manse  and  croft,  I  asked  the  factor  for  slates,  and  without  a 
word  we  got  slates  to  the  value  of  £15.  So  much  for  the  kind- 
ness and  liberality  of  Lord  Aberdeen.  Few  landlords  acted  as 
he  did,  and  it  may  be  added  that  his  successors  have  been 
equally  kind  and  considerate."* 

Such  was  the  generous  treatment  which  the  people  received 
at  the  hands  of  a  former  opponent.  Unfortunately,  there  were 
too  many  lesser  men,  who  acted  in  a  far  different  spirit.  Thus 
at  Humble,  East  Lothian,  Mr.  Dodds  states  :  "  We  had  very 
great  difficulty  in  procuring  a  site  for  a  church  ;  all  the  heri- 
tors, and  most  of  the  farmers,  being  hostile  to  our  cause.  At 
length,  through  the  kind  intervention  of  George  Buchan,  Esq. 
of  Kelloe,  his  brother,  Sir  John  Buchan,  the  proprietor  of 
Upper  Keith,  consented  to  give  us  a  site  on  his  property."  The 
farm,  however,  was  in  the  hands  of  the  trustees  of  a  deceased 

farmer,  and   Mr. ,    who    had   the   practical  management, 

"  opposed  us  in  every  way,  and  nearly  prevented  our  getting  the 

*  Disr.  Mss.  xxxviii.  pp.  2-8,  statement  by  Mr.  Joliu  Brown,  elder, 
Cairnorrie. 


254  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

site  we  wanted.  It  was  only  through  the  solicitations  of  Mr. 
Cadell,  of  Cockenzle,  who  had  considerable  influence  with  him, 

that   Mr.  at   last  withdrew  his  opposition."     "  In   this 

way/'  Mr.  Dodds  adds,  "  we  got  a  site  for  a  church,  against  the 
judgment  and  wish  both  of  the  proprietor  of  the  ground  and 
the  person  who  exercised  the  rights  and  authority  of  tenant,  a 
case  perhaps  unparalleled  in  the  Free  Church."  * 

At  Flisk,  "  many  fruitless  attempts  were  made  to  get  a  site 
for  our  church.  We  thought  of  one  in  the  village  of  Luthrie, 
which  was  to  be  sold  by  public  roup.  But  the  minister's  sister 
had  secretly  instructed  the  man  of  business  to  secure  it  for  her 
at  any  price.  In  our  desire  to  get  it  we  ran  up  the  price  far 
beyond  its  real  value,  and  then  left  it  to  her.  ...  In  a  way 
we  little  expected  a  site  was  procured,  and  probably  a  more 
suitable  one  than  any  that  could  have  been  selected.  Mr.  Boyd, 
Wright,  Brunton,  the  only  remaining  elder  in  the  parish  of 
Creich,  joined  us,  and  as  he  had  a  small  stripe  of  land  close  by 
the  very  spot  on  which  it  had  once  been  contemplated  to  build 
the  parish  church,  he  disposed  of  it,  both  for  church  and  manse. 
These  seem  little  things,  but  they  were  great  providences  to  us."  f 

Sometimes  the  people  were  in  straits,  and  thankfully  accepted 
of  sites  on  which  it  was  difficult  to  get  a  church  of  any  kind 
built.  At  Ardrossan,  the  Earl  of  Eglinton,  a  kindly  and  popu- 
lar nobleman,  on  being  applied  to  by  Dr.  Landsborough,  met 
his  request  by  a  curt  refusal.  In  the  neighbouring  village  of 
Saltcoats,  however,  a  small  piece  of  ground  was  heard  of, 
belonging  to  Dr.  Dow,  of  Greenock,  with  a  small  house  on  it, 
much  dilapidated.  There  was  some  doubt  as  to  whether  the 
space  would  be  sufficient.  Dr.  Landsborough  made  an  apialica- 
tion  for  it  to  Dr.  Dow,  and  that  venerable  and  benevolent 
gentleman,  as  he  states,  "  immediately  wrote  to  me,  that 
for  the  sake  of  the  gude  auld  Kirk,  and  for  the  sake  of 
the  good  old  man,  his  father,  who  had  long  been  a  mini- 
ster of  that  Kirk,J  he  would  be  delighted  to  give  the  ground 

'  Disr.  Mss.  xxxiii.  pp.  5-8.  t  Disr.  Mss.  xxxvii.  p.  11. 

J  "  The  kind-hearted  doctor,  who  is  above  ninety  years  of  age,  took  a 
right  view  of  the  matter,  in  thinking  that  though  for  conscience'  sake  we 
have  given  up  the  temporalities,  we  have  not  loft  the  beloved  Church  of 
our  fathers." — IVitnesa, '2nd  March,  1844,  Dr.  LaudsborougL 


CHURCH  BUILDING.  255 

as  a  free  gift,  and  would  be  happy  to  learn  that  it  was  large 
enough.  The  materials  of  the  old  house  also  were  kindly 
offered.  A  plan  and  measurement  of  the  ground  having  been 
sent  to  Mr,  Cousin,  architect,  Edinburgh,  he  said  that  there 
would  be  room  for  a  church,  but  that  a  special  plan  would  be 
necessary."*  This  having  been  furnished  by  Mr.  Cousin,  a  hand- 
some church  was  built,  and  opened  by  Dr.  Brown,  .of  Glasgow, 
in  January,  1844.  It  was  seated  for  seven  hundred,  and  the 
whole  sittings  were  at  once  let.  The  attendance  was  afterwards 
affected,  to  some  extent,  by  the  opening  of  two  Free  Churches 
in  the  neighbourhood — at  Stevenston  and  Ardrossan. 

The  case  of  Dr.  Simpson  at  Kintore  was  more  trying. 
"  Much  difficulty  was  experienced  in  procuring  a  site  for  the 
Free  Church  here.  Our  application  to  the  late  Earl  of  Kintore, 
on  whose  ground  it  was  most  desirable  to  have  our  place  of 
worship  erected,  met  with  a  refusal.  In  consequence  of  this  we 
were  obliged  to  erect  it  in  a  swampy  situation  on  the  proj^erty 
of  Mr.  William  Smith,  merchant,  within  flood-mark  of  the  Don, 
which  circumstance  has  proved  the  source  of  very  great  incon- 
venience and  discomfort.  Owing  to  the  extreme  softness  of  the 
foundation,  thin  brick  walls  were  built  on  a  basement  of  stone, 
and  these  being  found  incapable  of  sustaining  a  slated  roof,  felt 
was  resorted  to,  which  has  proved  an  insufficient  covering.  Our 
case  in  this  respect  is  rather  singular,  for  when  the  river  over- 
flows, the  water  finds  its  way  to  a  considerable  depth  into  the 
under  building,  while,  during  a  shower,  the  rain  has  often  come 
down  upon  us  overhead  in  many  places.  This  has  been  no 
slight  trial,  but  we  have  now  [1847]  the  prospect  of  relief,  as  the 
guardians  of  Lord  Kintore  have  granted  an  eligible  site  in  the 
most  handsome  manner."-f- 

There  were  parishes  in  which  it  was  only  in  consequence  of 
some  remarkable  conjunction  of  circumstances  that  sites  were 
obtained.  At  Forgandenny,  the  difficulties  threatened  to  prove 
insurmountable.  "  While  we  were  in  our  thatched  cottage," 
Mr.  Drunimond  writes,  "  a  note  was  sent  to  me  from  the  lady 
of  one  of  the  leading  heritors,  to  ask  if  I  and  my  adhering 

*  Disr.  ]Mss.  xxxix.  p.  5. 

t  Parker  Mss.,  Paper  by  Dr.  Simpson,  p.  5. 


256  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISKUPTION. 

people  would  be  content  with. a  site  at  the  Path  of  Condie,  if 
such  a  site  could  be  obtained.  Now,  the  Path  of  Condie  lies 
fully  five  miles  from  the  bulk  of  our  people,  and  in  the 
highest  part  of  the  Ochils.  It  was  utterly  impossible  that  we 
could  accept  of  such  an  oflFer.  It  was  as  much  as  to  say  that 
there  could  be  no  Free  Church  here,  and  that  we  must 
abandon  all  hope  of  remaining  in  the  parish.  Besides,  as 
she  added  in  her  note,  she  was  not  sure  whether  her  husband 
would  be  able  to  secure  ground  for  us  there.  Indeed,  a  United 
Presbyterian  Chapel  existed  in  that  elevated  region  already, 
so  that  there  was  no  room  for  us.  .  .  .  We  had  just  begun 
to  consider  whether  it  were  possible  to  obtain  sites  for  church 
and  manse,  and  we  had  made  two  applications  to  the  heritors, 
whose  ground  was  in  all  respects  the  most  suitable.  We 
knew  well  that  it  would  be  utterly  hopeless  to  approach  the 
other  two.  Both  of  these  applications  were  indignantly  rejected. 
In  the  meantime,  we  had  some  slight  hope  that  we  might  secure 
a  portion  of  a  liferent  property,  which  would  perfectly  suit  our 
purpose.  The  liferenter  having  previously  fallen  into  pecuniary 
difiiculties,  had  sold  his  right  to  a  party  in  Perth,  who  was  then 
in  possession  of  it. 

"That  property  had  an  interesting  history.  When  the  last 
holder,  who  succeeded  to  his  grandfather,  took  possession  of  it, 
the  proprietor,  to  whom  it  was  to  lapse  at  his  death,  disputed 
his  title  to  it,  and  accordingly  raised  an  action  against  him 
before  both  the  Sheriff-Substitute  and  Sheriff  of  Perth,  and  lost 
in  both  cases.  When  this  heritor,  however,  learned  that  we  were 
looking  after  a  part  of  it,  he  determined,  if  possible,  to  get  hold 
of  the  whole  property.  With  that  view  he  carried  the  question 
to  the  Court  of  Session,  and  the  day  was  actually  fixed  by  the 

Supreme  Court  for  trying  the  case.    But  in  the  meantime, 

happened  to  be  on  a  visit  to  the  said  proprietor,  who  showed 

him  the  papers  connected  with  the  business ; advised  him 

to  proceed  no  farther,  for,  said  he,  the  Court  is  sure  to  decide 
against  you.  Disappointed  in  this  direction,  his  next  plan  was 
to  buy  up  the  liferent.  Accordingly,  he  actually  went  to  the 
holder's  man  of  business  in  Perth,  with  the  intention  of  pur- 
chasing it.     But  it  so  happened  that  a  friend  of  ours  preceded 


CHUECH  BUILDING.  257 

him,  and  having  concluded  a  bargain  for  part  of  the  land  in  our 
favour,  was  coming  down  stairs  from  the  agent's  office,  when 
he  met  the  said  heritor  going  up  on  his  fruitless  errand."  * 

At  Peebles,  the  site  on  which  the  church  is  built  "  belonged  to 
nine  different  proprietors,  all  either  indifferent  or  hostile  to  the 
Church.  Yet,  to  the  amazement  of  not  a  few,  every  difficulty 
yielded  to  the  indefatigable  perseverance  and  consummate  pru- 
dence of  the  Free  Church  Committee  in  their  negotiations  with 
the  proprietors  of  the  ground.  This  was  all  the  more  remark- 
able, seeing  that  it  was  the  very  spot  which  the  Relief  congre- 
gation earnestly  desired,  and  strove,  without  success,  to  obtain, 
.  .  .  some  fifteen  or  twenty  years  before." -|- 

In  not  a  few  of  these  cases  much  of  the  burden  and  anxiety 
fell  on  the  minister. 

"Peculiar  difficulties  occurred  in  connection  with  the  Free 
Church  cause  in  Roslin.  The  landed  proprietors  were  all  hostile, 
and  ground  for  building  could  not  be  obtained  from  any  of 
them.  The  elders  were  despondent,  and  knew  not  what  to  do. 
In  these  circumstances,  Mr.  Brown  was  constrained,  entirely  on 
his  own  responsibility,  to  purchase  an  old  house  in  EosKn 
village,  in  order  to  get  the  garden  as  a  site  for  a  Free  Church. 
The  old  house  was  repaired  and  used  for  some  years  as  a  school- 
house."  I 

At  Girthon,  Mr.  Jeffrey's  "  greatest  anxiety  during  the  five 
months  of  his  last  illness  was  about  a  site  for  the  church. 
It  appears  marvellous,  on  looking  back  twenty  years,  to  com- 
prehend the  hatred  evinced  by  the  Established  party  against 
the  Free  Church,  and  in  Girthon,  every  kind  of  petty  scheme  of 
annoyance  was  resorted  to  to  prevent  a  site  being  got,  I  do 
not  know  how  many  sites  were  fixed  on,  and  when  almost 
everything  was  arranged,  objections  were  raised  against  the 
work  proceeding.  All  this  lay  most  heavily  on  Mr.  Jeffrey's 
head  during  his  illness,  and  he  was  not  aware  of  the  site  being 
finally  obtained  till  about  an  hour  before  his  death.  Mr. 
Pearson,  one  of  his  elders,  told  him  of  it.     He  was  very  thank- 

*  Disr.  Mss.  liii,  pp.  12-13. 
+  Disr.  Mss.  xii.  p.  6. 
I  Parker  Mss.,  Presb.  of  Dalkeith,  Kev.  D.  Brown,  p.  1. 

S 


258  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

ful,  and  prayed  for  a  blessing  to.  rest  upon  the  cliurcli  about  to 
be  erected."  * 

These  extracts  will  show  the  obstacles  which  had  in  many 
cases  to  be  overcome  ;  but  even  after  sites  had  been  obtained  the 
difficulties  were  often  far  from  being  ended.  It  not  unfrequently 
happened  that  the  opposition  of  landlords  and  tenants  showed 
itself  in  refusing  the  usual  facilities  for  obtaining  building 
materials,  and  there  were  districts  in  which  this  proved  a  very 
serious  hindrance. 

At  one  time  it  was  thought  that  a  site  for  a  church  would  not 
be  obtained  in  Madderty,  Perthshire — "But  at  last  the  people 
succeeded  in  procuring  a  piece  of  moor-ground  from  a  small 
proprietor,  having  been  refused  a  site  on  another  property  on 
which  it  would  have  been  mo.st  suitable  and  central  for  the 
scattered  population.  On  the  same  property  on  which  a  site 
was  refused  there  was  a  quarry,  from  which  the  people  could 
not  be  allowed  to  take  stones  for  the  building  of  the  church,  and 
they  were  consequently  under  the  necessity  of  bringing  all  the 
stones  froui  a  place  ten  miles  distant.  All  the  landed  proprietors 
in  the  parish  were  hostile  to  the  principles  of  the  Free  Church." -f- 

The  greatest  difficulty  in  some  cases  was  sand.  When  the 
church  was  commenced  at  Kelty,  for  the  parishes  of  Cleish 
and  Beath,  "  none  of  the  neighbouring  proprietors  would 
allow  us  to  take  sand  from  the  pits  on  their  property, 
so  that  the  work  was  put  a  stop  to,  till  the  wife  of  the  pro- 
prietor of  Gairney  Bank,  parish  of  Kinross,  in  the  absence 
of  her  husband,  ventured  to  send  us  several  cart-loads  of  sand 
which  were  afterwards  repeated  with  his  consent.  Previous  to 
this,  however,  permission  had  been  obtained  to  dig  sand  from 
the  side  of  a  public  road.  A  man  was  sent,  accordingly,  to  pro- 
cure the  necessary  supply,  and  already  a  considerable  quantity 
had  been  thrown  out,  and  was  lying  on  the  roadside  ready  to 
be  wheeled  away  next  morning.  But  during  the  night  a  man, 
who  possessed  a  small  property  in  the  neighbourhood  of  the 
spot,  .  .  .  filled  up  the  hole  with   the   sand,  alternating  each 

*  Parker  Mss.,  Presb.  of  Kirkcudbright. 
+  Disr.  Mss.  XXV.  p.  4. 


CHUECH  BUILDING.  259 

spadeful  with  a  spadeful  of  earth,  thus  rendering  it  useless  for 
the  purpose."  * 

At  Portpatrick,  they  had  to  bring  their  supply  from  a  greater 
distance.  "  The  Free  Church  congregation  at  the  time  of  the 
Disruption  were  exposed  to  considerable  hardship  from  the 
refusal  of  sites.  The  proprietor  of  the  soil  was  keenly  opposed 
to  the  movement,  and  did  all  in  his  power  to  put  it  down. 
Sand  for  building  required  to  be  brought  all  the  way  from 
Brodick  Bay,  in  Arran."  -f- 

At  Forgandenny,  the  circumstances  that  occurred  called  forth 
an  unusual  amount  of  feeling.  "  Having  fixed  upon  a  suitable 
spot  for  the  church,  we  instantly  made  preparations  for  build- 
ing, as  we  were  anxious  to  have  the  congregation  safely  under 
roof  before  winter  should  come.  A  plan  was  got  and  approved 
of.  Estimates  for  the  different  departments  of  the  work  were 
accepted.  And  now  to  us  a  very  important  question  arose — 
where  was  the  needful  sand  to  be  got  ?  There  was  no  diflSculty 
about  stones,  for  the  contracting  masons  had  a  quarry  on  lease 
in  the  neighbourhood,  from  which  they  could  take  as  much 
building  material,  unchallenged,  as  they  might  require.  But 
the  sand — where  could  we  look  for  it  ? 

"  We  were  aware  that  sand  of  the  best  kind  had  for  a  long 
time  been  taken  from  a  bank  in  the  bed  of  the  Eiver  Earn.  We 
resolved  therefore  to  supply  ourselves  with  what  we  might 
require  from  that  quarter,  not  dreaming  that  opposition  would 
be  ofi'ered  on  the  part  of  any  one.  Accordingly,  carts  were  sent 
down  to  bring  up  a  first  supply,  but  on  the  servants  returning  for 
a  second  they  were  served  with  an  interdict,  at  the  instance  of  a 
neighbouring  proprietor,  and  were  obliged  to  come  back  empty. 
They  were  summoned  to  appear  before  the  Sheriff  on  a  charge 
of  trespass  and  theft.  This  looked  a  very  serious  case.  Still 
we  were  convinced  that  we  had  a  right  to  take  as  much  sand  as 
we  needed  from  that  spot.  Six  men,  all  of  excellent  character, 
informed  us  that  they  had  driven  it,  unhindered,  one  for  sixty 
years,  two  for  more  than  fifty,  and  the  rest  for  upwards  of  forty- 
five  years,  and  that  they  were  willing  to  attend  the  Sheriff  Court 
and  give  evidence  upon  oath  to  that  effect.  They  did  so,  and 
*  Disr.  Mss.  xii.  p.  3.  t  Parker  Mss.,  Presb.  of  Stranraer. 


260  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

thus  the  Sheriff  had  no  alternative  but  to  declare  from  the  bench 
that  the  servants  had  committed  no  trespass,  seeing  that  the 
public  had  a  prescriptive  right  to  take  sand  for  building  and 
other  purposes  from  the  bed  of  the  Earn.  And  yet  he  most 
unwarrantably  saddled  the  innocent  men  with  the  expenses  of 
the  process. 

"  It  so  happened,  however,  that  a  gentleman  in  Edinburgh,  who 
had  long  been  in  the  habit  of  frequenting  Pitkaithly  Wells 
for  two  or  three  months  in  the  year,  and  who,  therefore,  felt 
some  interest  in  what  transpired  in  our  county,  read  the  account 
of  the  decision  in  a  Perth  newspaper  which  he  was  wont  to 
receive.  He  felt  for  the  servants,  and  was  shocked  to  learn  that 
any  expenses  were  laid  upon  them.  I  had  never  met  with  that 
benevolent  individual  before,  and  had  had  no  previous  correspon- 
dence with  him.  The  expenses  had  been  already  paid  by  us, 
but  he  sent  me  an  order  for  the  amount,  to  be  handed  to  the 
servants,  which  they  on  the  following  Sabbath  put  into  the  plate 
to  aid  in  building  the  church.  We  had  no  further  trouble 
about  the  sand."  * 

In  the  midst  of  these  difficulties  there  were  cases  in  which 
the  most  effective  help  came  from  the  female  members  of 
the  church.  At  Old  Meldrum,  Aberdeenshire,  the  site  was 
obtained  in  a  way  well  deserving  of  notice.  A  lady, 
Mrs.  Smith,  had  a  small  piece  of  ground  very  near  Old 
iVIeldrum,  where  she  came  to  reside.  Formerly  she  had  lived 
in  Aberdeen,  and  while  there  had  attended  a  meeting  of 
Synod,  in  which  the  Church  question  was  discussed,  and  at 
which  Mr.  Garioch,  of  Old  Meldrum,  had  taken  part  in  the 
debate.  She  had  formerly  been  opposed  to  the  principles  of 
the  Evangelical  majority ;  but  the  effect  of  that  discussion  was 
an  entire  change  of  her  views,  and  a  firm  resolution  to  advance 
the  cause  which  hitherto  she  had  opposed.  Along  with  her 
husband,  she  removed  to  Old  Meldrum,  and  occupied  one  of  the 
houses  that  belonged  to  her.  One  day,  in  the  course  of  his  visi- 
tation, Mr.  Garioch  called  at  the  house,  and  as  he  left,  Mrs.  Smith 
said  to  him,  "  I  see  now  the  likelihood  of  a  speedy  disruption  in 
♦  Disr.  Mas.  liii.  pp.  14-16. 


CHUKCH  BUILDING.  261 

the  Church,  and  when  that  takes  place,  if  you  will  accept  of  a 
site  on  my  ground  for  the  church  which  will  then  be  required, 
I  will  not  only  give  it  with  pleasure,  but  will  consider  that  the 
favour  is  done  to  me  in  its  being  accepted."  The  generous 
offer  was  cordially  welcomed,  and  when  the  time  came  the 
church  was  built  on  the  site  thus  providentially  procured.  * 

At  Penicuik,  the  ground  belonged  to  Sir  George  Clerk,  who 
held  an  important  office  under  Government.  He  had  taken  an 
active  part  in  the  Ten  Years'  Conflict ;  but  after  the  Disruption, 
the  spirit  which  he  displayed  was  widely  different  from  that  of 
Lord  Aberdeen.  On  being  applied  to,  he  not  only  refused  a  site, 
but  when  the  people  had  bought  for  themselves  an  eligible  piece 
of  ground,  he  interposed,  as  superior  of  the  barony,  to  claim  the 
right  of  pre-emption,  and  so  effectually  shut  them  out.  At  a 
subsequent  period,  when  they  had  purchased  a  cottage  and  pro- 
posed to  enlarge  it  as  a  manse,  he  again  successfully  interfered  to 
prevent  their  adding  to  the  comfort  of  their  pastor.  These  efforts, 
however,  to  put  down  the  obnoxious  Free  Church  were  not 
successful.  A  respectable  old  woman  named  Helen  Wilson 
had  died  leaving  part  of  a  cottage  and  a  garden,  which  were 
put  up  for  sale  by  public  auction.  The  purchaser  was  Charles 
Cowan,  Esq.,  M.P.,  who  made  a  present  of  the  garden  as  a 
site  to  the  Free  Church.  The  ground  was  held  on  lease  from 
Sir  George's  estate  at  Penicuik,  but  as  400  years  of  the  lease 
had  still  to  run,  it  was  fortunately  a  good  way  out  of  reach. 
On  this  piece  of  ground  a  church  was  built.  As  the  little 
garden,  however,  was  triangular  in  shape,  the  church  had  neces- 
sarily to  be  somewhat  similar  in  form.  It  was  opened  in  the 
month  of  October.  "  The  pulpit  was  placed  behind,  near  the 
apex  of  the  triangle,  and  the  seating  was  necessarily  disposed  in 
segments  of  a  circle,  the  area  of  the  church  being  somewhat  in 
the  form  of  a  fan.  The  front  is  about  a  hundred  feet  in  length, 
and  considering  the  very  awkward  shape  of  the  ground,  "  the 
effect  of  the  whole  is  peculiarly  pleasinL>."-f-  Subsequently  Sir 
G.  Clerk  gave  ground  for  a  manse,  and  ultimately  the  advan- 
tageous site  where  the  present  Free  Church  stands,  on  reasonable 
terms. 

*  Paiker  Mss.,  Presb.  of  Gaiioch. 
t  WitneAs.  26th  June,  1844,  aud  16th  October,  1844. 


262  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

A  similar  case,  which  obtained  a  yet  greater  share  of  public 
notice,  occurred  at  Thornhill,  a  considerable  village  in  the  upper 
part  of  Dumfriesshire.  Most  of  the  ground  belongs  to  the 
Duke  of  Buccleuch,  whose  influence  was  paramount  in  the  dis- 
trict, and  as  he  had  unfortunately  taken  an  attitude  of  keen  hos- 
tility to  the  Free  Church,  there  was  great  diflBculty  in  obtaining 
a  site.  It  happened,  however,  that  a  poor  woman  named  Janet 
Fraser,  a  stocking  weaver,  had  a  small  property,  consisting  of  two 
cottages  and  a  plot  of  ground,  the  whole  yielding  a  rent  of  about 
£6  a-year.  Thirty  years  before  she  had  formed  a  resolution  to 
dedicate  this  property  in  some  way  to  the  cause  of  God,  and 
when  the  Free  Church  congregation,  finding  themselves  in 
difficulties,  asked  whether  she  would  sell  it,  she  intimated  her 
purpose  to  hand  it  over  as  a  free  gift.  Some  delay  occurred, 
as  there  was  another  site  wliich  the  congregation  would  have 
preferred,  and  the  poor  woman  spent  the  interval  in  some 
anxiety,  the  idea  having  taken  possession  of  her  mind  that  if  the 
site  were  refused  it  would  be  a  token  that  the  Lord  had  cast  out 
her  gift.  "  In  the  meantime,  there  came  a  person  who  was  under- 
stood to  act  for  the  Duke  of  Buccleuch,  and  offered  to  treat  for 
the  purchase  of  the  ground.  He  began  by  offering  £25,  but 
presently  advanced  to  £50.  Janet  cut  him  short  by  her  noble 
reply — she  had  devoted  it  to  her  Maker,  and  she  would  not  take 
£500,  no  nor  all  the  dukedom  of  Queensberry  for  her  ground, 
under  a  prohibition  to  give  it  to  the  Almighty.  It  was  finally 
arranged  that  she  should  receive  a  small  rent  for  it  during  her 
life,  and  that  on  her  death  it  should  become  the  property  of  the 
congregation.  Upon  the  ground  thus  bestowed  the  Free  Church 
of  Thornhill  has  been  erected.  It  has  one  rather  significant 
peculiarity.  The  south  wall  has  a  deforming  bend,  which  in- 
terferes with  the  symmetry  of  an  otherwise  goodly  edifice. 
Eighteen  inches  more  of  ground  would  have  made  the  wall 
straight.  But  these  eighteen  inches  would  have  encroached  on 
the  Duke's  march  [boundary],  and  so  the  wall  is  crooked." 

When  a  deputation  from  the  Free  Church  visited  America, 
this  story  of  Janet  Fraser  seems  greatly  to  have  taken  the 
fancy  of  our  Transatlantic  friends.  At  the  meetings,  Dr.  Burns 
says  :  "  We  always  placed  the  Principal  (Cunningham)  in  the 


CHUECH  BUILDING.  263 

foreground,  as  the  vigorous  and  successful  exponent  of  Acts  of 
Parliament  and  Claims  of  Eight.  But  he  generally  con- 
cluded when  he  paid  a  tribute  to  worthy  Janet  Eraser  and 
the  '  crook  in  the  wa'.'  On  such  occasions  the  starched  features 
of  our  dear  American  friends  were  pleasantly  relaxed  into  some- 
thing not  unlike  a  laugh,  by  the  exciting  contrast  between  the 
outgoings  of  a  massive  intellect  and  the  playings  of  fancy  around 
the  circle  of  a  good  story."  * 

Dr.  Cunningham  himself,  when  addressing  the  Assembly  on 
his  return,  adverted  to  the  topic.  "  Perhaps  no  one  in  this  coun- 
try has  excited  a  greater  degree  of  sympathy  in  America  than 
Janet  Eraser.  They  were  acquainted  with  her  case,  they  knew 
the  trials  to  which  she  had  been  subjected,  and  I  have  brought 
home  many  expressions  of  cordial  regard  and  sympathy  for  her. 
I  hold  in  my  hands  a  pair  of  silver  spectacles,  the  gift  of  a 
Scotchwoman  in  New  York,  who  desired  me  to  send  them  to 
Janet." 

At  Carraylie,  Forfarshire,  Mrs.  Gardyne,  a  member  of  the 
congregation,  attempted  to  render  a  similar  service,  but  un- 
fortunately it  cost  her  the  loss  of  the  property  which  she 
believed  was  hers  in  liferent.  The  narrative,  by  Dr.  Wilson, 
of  Dundee,  then  of  Carmylie,  strikingly  brings  out  the  difficul- 
ties of  the  time. 

"  The  factor  of  Lord  Panmure  offered  a  site  at  the  extreme 
western  boundary  of  the  parish,  which  was  refused  as  ineligible, 
being  so  remote  from  the  great  bulk  of  the  congregation. 
During  the  summer  of  1843,  the  congregation  worshipped 
in  the  open  air  at  the  small  hamlet  of  Milton.  An  aged  widow, 
Mrs.  Gardyne,  a  member  of  the  congregation,  who  supposed 
she  had  a  liferent  interest  in  the  cottage  and  garden  she 
occupied  at  Milton,  offered  to  the  congregation  a  portion  of  her 
garden  on  which  to  erect  a  temporary  building  for  worship. 
The  congregation  gladly  availed  themselves  of  this  offer,  and 
erected,  accordingly,  a  wooden  church,  roofed  with  felt,  which 
was  opened  for  worship  on  the  fir.st  Sabbath  of  October,  184o. 
In  this  building  the  congregation,  numbering  from  300  to 
40(\  worshipped  with  great  comfort  till  Whitsunday,  1844. 
*  Lifr  of  Dr.  Bums,  p.  1V&. 


264  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISKUPTION. 

At  this  date  Mrs.  Gardyne  was  evicted  from  her  cottage,  and 
obliged  to  take  refuge  with  her  son  in  Arbroath,  with  whom  she 
lived  thereafter,  till  her  death  ;  and  the  congregation,  by  inter- 
dict granted  by  the  Sheriff  of  the  county,  was  prohibited  from 
again  entering  the  church  which  they  had  built.  During  the 
summer  of  1844-,  as  in  the  summer  of  the  previous  year,  they 
worshipped  in  the  open  air  by  the  wayside.  Before  the  winter 
set  in  they  procured  a  canvas  tent,  and  in  that  they  worshipped 
during  the  winter  of  1844-45,  when  the  weather  was  quiet. 
There  was  no  sort  of  shelter  from  the  wind  in  the  locality,  and 
in  stormy  weather  the  tent  could  not  be  erected.  In  stormy 
weather,  therefore,  they  worshipped  in  the  barn  at  Mains  of 
Carmylie,  the  use  of  which  was  kindly  granted  by  Mr.  James 
Kydd,  farmer  at  Mains,  an  elder  of  the  congregation.  .  .  . 
It  is  worth  while  to  record  one  of  those  humourous  hits  to  which 
the  circumstances  of  the  congregation  gave  rise.  A  farmer, 
James  Gardyne,  a  member  of  the  Free  Church,  was  walking 
home  from  Arbroath  on  the  market-day,  Saturday,  and  overtook 
by  the  road  a  brother  farmer,  Henry  Suttie,  a  member  of  the 
Established  Church,  who  was  riding  home.  Henry's  horse  had 
taken  an  obstinate  fit,  and  refused,  in  spite  of  flogging  and 
spurring,  to  move  onwards.  '  Oo,  Henry,  man,'  said  James  in 
passing,  '  what's  the  matter  wi'  your  horse  ?  Has  onybody 
put  an  interdict  upon  him  ? '  Henry  had  been  particularly 
jubilant  on  the  subject  of  the  interdict  served  upon  the  Free 
Church. 

"  In  the  spring  of  1845,  frequent  consultations  were  held 
among  the  office-bearers  as  to  what  should  be  done.  There 
seemed  to  be  no  prospect  of  relief  from  the  hardships  under 
which  the  congregation  were  suffering,  and  although  none  of 
the  members  had  been  shaken  in  their  allegiance  through  the 
hardships  to  which  they  were  exposed,  it  was  clearly  their  duty, 
if  possible,  to  alleviate  these  hardships.  It  is  proper  to  record, 
however,  to  the  praise  of  a  bountiful  Providence,  that  though 
the  congregation  often  sat  in  the  tent  at  worship  on  winter  days 
with  their  feet  resting  upon  ice,  none  of  them,  so  far  as  is 
known,  suffered  in  health.  Two  neighbouring  congregations, 
those  of  Aibirlot  and  Panbride,  to  whom  a  site  had  also  been 


CHUECH  BUILDING.  265 

refused  by  Lord  Panmure,  following  the  example  of  the  con- 
gregation at  Carmylie,  had,  in  the  summer  of  1843,  erected 
wooden  churches  after  the  model  of  the  one  at  Carmylie,  and 
Lord  Panmure  had  not  interfered  with  their  occupancy  of  them. 
These  churches  were  built  on  the  lands-  of  farmers  who  had  a 
lease,  and  could  not  be  evicted,  as  Mrs.  Gardyne  had  been. 
The  congregation  at  Carmylie  resolved  to  adopt'  a  similar 
course,  and  for  the  second  time  to  erect  a  wooden  church. 

"  It  is  necessary  to  explain  why  they  did  not  make  the  attempt 
at  an  earlier  date.  Those  members  of  the  congregation  who 
rented  lands  on  the  Panmure  estates  were  of  two  classes — 
crofters  and  farmers.  In  Carmylie  there  were  a  large  number 
of  these  crofters  renting  from  four  to  fifteen  acres  of  land. 
They  had  no  written  leases,  and  were  liable  to  be  evicted  at  the 
will  of  the  proprietor.  In  1843,  it  happened  that  the  leases 
of  all  the  farmers  in  Carmylie  expired.  During  the  summer 
of  1843,  all  the  crofters  and  farmers  who  were  members  of  the 
Free  Church  were  waited  upon  by  the  ground-officer,  and 
warned  that  the  only  condition  on  which  they  would  be  allowed 
to  retain  their  premises,  was  by  returning  to  the  Established 
Church.  They  were  assured  that  Lord  Panmure  would  not 
tolerate  on  his  estates  any  member  or  adherent  of  the  Free 
Church.  The  farmers  who  applied  for  a  renewal  of  their  leases 
received  the  same  information  from  the  factor.  At  Whitsunday, 
1844,  some  of  the  crofters  were  evicted  as  a  warning  to  all  the 
rest,  who  were  informed  that  they  would  be  allowed  to  continue 
in  occupancy  for  another  year,  to  see  whether  they  would  not 
within  that  time  quietly  return  to  the  Established  Church.  It 
is  due  to  the  people  who  were  thus  harassed  and  threatened,  to 
say  that  not  one  of  them  complied  with  the  terms  of  the 
proprietor. 

"  Meantime,  during  the  summer  of  1844,  a  new  trial  awaited 
them.  In  the  neigljbouring  parish  of  Panbride,  Mr.  Ireland 
had  held  the  lease  of  the  farm  of  Firth,  bordering  on  Carmylie 
parish.  Mr.  Ireland  had  subscribed  the  Convocation  resolu- 
tions of  1842,  and  professed  the  principles  of  the  Free  Church. 
His  lease,  like  those  of  the  Carmylie  farmers,  expired  in  1843, 
and,  as  matter  of  course,  he  was  subjected  to   the  same  test. 


266  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

He  consented  to  return  to  the  Established  Church,  and  as  a 
reward  for  his  apostasy,  had  his  lease  renewed  in  1844  on 
highly  advantageous  terms.  He  immediately  set  to  work  as  an 
emissary  of  the  proprietor,  and  waited  upon  the  Free  Church 
farmers  of  Carmylie  to  represent  to  them  what  an  excellent 
bargain  he  had  made  with  the  factor,  having  got  his  lease 
renewed  at  a  greatly  reduced  rent,  and  that  if  they  would  only 
consent  to  return  to  the  Established  Church  he  was  authorised 
to  assure  them  that  their  leases  would  be  renewed  on  equally 
advantageous  terms.  Some  of  the  farmers  were  in  greater 
danger  of  being  shaken  by  this  inducement  than  by  the  threats 
which  had  previously  been  thundered  against  them.  It  is 
possible  that  some  of  them  might  have  been  worn  out  and 
induced  to  yield,  but  for  a  providential  occurrence  which  pro- 
duced a  considerable  sensation  in  the  district. 

"  The  autumn  of  1844  came  on,  and  Mr.  Ireland  reaped  his 
crop  of  grain,  the  first  crop  under  his  new  lease,  and  had  it  all 
safely  lodged  in  the  barn-yard.  The  Sabbath  after  such  an 
important  operation  is  finished  is  regarded  by  the  farmers  in 
the  locality  as  an  occasion  for  peculiar  thanksgiving.  Mr. 
Ireland,  of  course,  on  that  Sabbath  went  to  the  parish  church, 
and  died  there  during  the  celebration  of  public  worship,  before 
he  had  sold  one  boll  of  that  crop  for  which  he  had  paid  so  dear. 
This  striking  and  awful  occurrence  in  Providence  had  the  effect 
of  showing  the  Carmylie  farmers  how  little  security  the  pro- 
prietor could  give  them  in  the  most  favourable  bargain  they 
could  make  with  him.  Perhaps,  also,  it  had  its  influence  on 
those  who  had  been  so  sorely  trying  and  oppressing  them.  At 
all  events,  the  system  of  threatening  and  bribing  ceased  from 
that  time. 

"  In  1845,  Lord  Panmure  commenced  giving  leases  to  the  Free 
Church  farmers.  Now,  therefore,  the  congregation  were  in  a 
position  to  follow  the  course  which  had  been  adopted  at 
Arbirlot  and  Panbride.  During  the  summer  of  that  year, 
therefore,  they  commenced  the  erection  of  a  new  wooden 
church,  having  obtained  the  permission  of  the  tenant,  Mr. 
James  Kydd,  the  renewal  of  whose  lease  had  also  led  to  another 
important  amelioration  in  their  circumstances.     On  the  farm 


CHUECH  BUILDING.  267 

there  was  an  old  and  a  new  farm-house.  Mr.  Kydd  occupied 
the  old  house  and  gave  the  new  one  for  the  temporary  occu- 
pancy of  the  minister,  who  was  thus,  after  a  banishment  of  two 
years,  restored  to  the  close  neighbourhood  of  his  people,  and  to 
liis  pastoral  work  among  their  families.  No  sooner,  however, 
had  they  commenced  preparations  for  the  erection  of  a  second 
wooden  church,  by  building  a  dwarf  stone  wall  for  a  foundation, 
than  Lord  Panmure's  factor  interposed.  He  ordered  the  mason 
who  was  engaged  at  the  work  immediately  to  stop,  and  when 
the  mason  answered  that  he  would  only  stop  on  the  order  of 
those  who  employed  him,  the  factor  had  recourse  to  Mr.  Kydd, 
and  informed  him  that  he  had  no  right  to  permit  the  erection 
of  such  a  building,  and  that  unless  its  progress  was  immediately 
arrested,  an  interdict  would  be  obtained,  both  against  him  and 
the  office-bearers  of  the  congregation.  Mr,  Kydd  having  con- 
sulted with  the  minister,  who  now  resided  in  the  adjoining 
house,  answered,  that  of  course  they  would  submit  to  an  inter- 
dict, but  that  nothing  else  would  arrest  the  progress  of  the 
building. 

"  Having  heard  this  conclusive  reply,  the  factor  immediately 
changed  his  tactics,  for  neither  he  nor  Lord  Panmure  was  quite 
prepared  to  brave  the  odium  of  another  interdict.  He  then,  on 
the  part  of  Lord  Panmure,  made  the  offer  of  a  site,  on  very 
reasonable  terms,  and  on  the  very  spot  of  ground  which  the 
congregation  had  vainly  solicited  for  the  purpose  more  than 
two  years  previously.  A  missive,  conveying  the  ground  to  the 
extent  of  a  Scotch  acre  for  the  erection  of  a  church  and  manse 
on  a  lease  of  ninety-nine  years,  was  drawn  up  and  subscribed 
on  the  spot,  and  the  protracted  conflict  seemed  to  be  now 
happily  ended.  The  mason  was  instructed,  not,  indeed,  to 
suspend  operations,  but  merely  to  change  the  locality  of  them. 
The  ground  thus  leased  was  taken  possession  of  on  that  very 
day ;  and  as  the  congregation  needed  a  temporary  shelter  for 
the  approaching  winter,  they  set  to  work  to  erect  a  wooden 
church  on  the  site.  They  were  the  rather  induced  to  do  this, 
inasmuch  as  the  factor,  to  their  surprise,  made  it  a  condition,  to 
them  a  very  welcome  one,  that  they  should  forthwith  remove 
the  wooden  church  they  had  built  at  Milton   two  years  pre- 


268  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

viously,  and  from  which  they  had  been  shut  out  by  interdict. 
This  church,  so  long  locked  up,  was  accordingly  transferred  to 
the  new  and  central  site  which  had  been  granted. 

"  But  a  new  difficulty  occurred  before  this  could  be  accom- 
plished. The  ground  for  which  the  missive  had  been  obtained 
formed  part  of  the  farm  of  Mr.  Henry  Suttie.  On  the  day 
after  the  factor  had  subscribed  the  missive,  his  son  was  observed 
riding  up  to  the  farm.  The  congregation  suspected  no  harm, 
for  it  might  be  necessary  to  negotiate  with  Mr.  Suttie  for  the 
transference  of  the  acre  of  ground,  and  the  compensation  to  be 
given  him  for  the  loss  of  it.  At  the  end  of  the  week,  however, 
the  object  of  the  visit  became  apparent,  for  on  Saturday  all  the 
office-bearers  of  the  congregation  were  served  with  an  interdict 
at  the  instance  of  Mr.  Suttie.  It  appeared  that  while  Lord 
Pan  mure  and  his  factor  were  desirous  of  escaping  the  odium  of 
an  interdict,  they  had  no  objection  to  expose  the  farmer  to  it. 
Building  operations  were  thus  again  suspended. 

"  On  the  Monday  after  the  service  of  the  interdict,  however, 
the  minister  and  two  of  the  elders  waited  upon  Lord  Panmure's 
agent  in  Forfar,  and  represented  to  him  that  the  interdict  really 
lay  against  his  lordship  ;  that  he  had  granted  the  congregation 
a  site,  and  was  bound  to  put  them  in  possession  of  it ;  and  that 
if  it  was  pleaded  that  he  had  no  control  over  Mr.  Suttie,  and 
could  only  put  them  in  possession  of  the  ground  with  his  con- 
sent, there  was  more  than  one  of  the  crofters  in  the  immediate 
neighbourhood  who  would  interpose  no  obstacle  in  the  way  of 
his  lordship's  granting  an  acre,  which  the  congregation  were 
quite  willing  to  accept.  In  these  circumstances  the  agent  could 
scarcely  fail  to  see  that  the  odium  of  the  interdict  would  still 
attach  to  Lord  Panmure.  He  was  evidently  a  good  deal  per- 
plexed, and  asked  the  minister  what  could  be  done.  The 
minister  replied,  'It  was  at  the  suggestion  of  the  factor  that 
Mr.  Suttie  applied  for  this  interdict,  and  if  the  factor  teUs  him 
to  withdraw  it  he  will  be  equally  obedient.'  This  was  the 
course  actually  followed ;  and  on  the  following  Saturday  the 
interdict  was  witlidrawn,  and  the  harassing  troubles  of  the  con- 
gregation were  thus  ended."* 

*  Parker  Mss.,  Presb.  of  Dundee.     Paper  by  Dr.  Wilson. 


CHUECH  BUILDING.  269 

In  contrast  to  all  this  hostility,  however,  there  were,  in  many 
parts  of  the  country,  singular  examples  of  generous  liberality 
among  the  friends  of  the  Church.  At  the  General  Assembly 
which  met  five  months  after  the  Disruption,  Mr.  Hamilton,  in 
stating  the  general  amount  of  contributions,  referred  to  some  of 
these  cases  as  specially  deserving  of  notice.  "  To  this  sum  must 
be  added  the  munificent  donations  in  kind  which  have  been  con- 
tributed to  our  cause,  but  which  do  not  appear  as  cash  in  our 
treasurer's  books — that  is  to  say,  the  entire  churches  which 
have  been  built  by  individuals  at  their  own  charges,  and  freely 
presented  to  the  Church.  Of  these  we  have  to  record  the  fol- 
lowing— VIZ.,  the  Dowager  Marchioness  of  Bieadalbane  gives  a 
church  and  also  a  manse  at  Langton  ;  Mr.  Hog,  of  Newliston, 
gives  a  church  and  manse  at  Kirkliston ;  Mr.  Campbell,  of  Monzie, 
gives  a  church  at  Monzie  and  another  at  Dalmally ;  Mrs.  Col. 
Paston  and  Miss  Arthur  of  Barnslee  give  a  church  and  manse  at 
Markinch ;  Miss  Ann  Trail  gives  a  church  at  Papa  Westra  ;  Mr. 
iToung  gives  a  church  at  Burntisland  ;  Mr.  Johnston  and  Mr. 
Lennox,  of  New  York,  give  £1100  to  erect  a  church  at  Kirk- 
cudbright ;  and  to  these  most  honourable  instances  of  liberality 
we  have  to  add  the  bounty  of  that  distinguished  nobleman 
who,  after  having  proved  from  first  to  last  the  staunch  and 
unflinching  advocate  of  our  principles  in  high  places,  has 
given  us  the  satisfaction  of  seeing  him  this  day  in  the  midst 
of  us  an  efficient  working  elder  of  the  Free  Church  of  Scot- 
land. Lord  Breadalbane,  besides  presenting  to  the  Presbytery 
of  Perth  the  entire  stock  of  larch  timber  stored  in  his  yards 
at  Perth — being  timber  of  the  noblest  growth  produced  in 
Scotland,  and  in  the  most  perfect  state  of  seasoning — has 
given  two  million  of  slates  from  his  celebrated  quarries  in 
Argyllshire,  the  value  of  which  alone  is  not  less  than  £4000 
sterling.  His  lordship  has  further  proposed  to  confer  on 
the  Church  the  benefit  of  the  right  which  he  enjoys  under  his 
patent  as  Admiral  of  the  West  Coast  of  Scotland  to  the  drift- 
wood stranded  upon  its  shores.  .  .  .  And  in  addition  to  all 
this,  Lord  Breadalbane  is  now  exercising,  in  innumerable  name- 
less acts,  a  liberality  and  bounty  toward  the  various  churches 
rising   within  the  bounds  of  his  own  princely  domain  which 


"270  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 

will  promote  the  vital  interests  of  his  people,  and  root  him  in 
their  affections  to  a  degree  which  nothing  else  could  accomplish, 
and  which  present  an  example  to  the  aristocracy  of  Scotland 
which  it  is  deeply  to  be  deplored  that  so  few  of  them  have  yet 
shown  a  disposition  to  imitate,"* 

But  while  the  wealthy  members  of  the  Church  were  thus 
casting  their  costly  gifts  into  the  treasury  of  the  Lord,  there 
was  something  peculiarly  touching  in  the  way  in  which 
the  poorer  classes  gave  according  to  their  ability,  and  when 
money  failed  them,  supplemented  their  offerings  by  gratuitous 
labour.  The  carriage  of  materials  in  many  districts  is  a  heavy 
item  of  expense,  and  this  was  usually  done  free  of  charge  by  the 
farmers.  The  working  classes  had  to  take  other  methods,  and  in 
the  following  extracts  the  reader  will  find  some  examples  of  what 
was  occurring  to  a  great  extent  in  very  many  of  the  parishes  of 
Scotland. 

At  Catrine  it  is  reported :  "  "We  found  the  people  assembled 
for  the  purpose  of  collecting  funds  to  build  a  church."  An  inter- 
dict had  been  applied  for  by  the  Establishment  party  to  turn 
them  out  of  their  quoad  sacra  place  of  worship.  "  The  spirit 
that  prevailed  was  most  healthful.  Three  hundred  of  the 
young  women  employed  in  the  mill  have  undertaken  to  raise 
£300,  by  leaving  one  shilling  a-week  of  their  wages  in  the 
hands  of  their  employer  for  the  purpose  of  building.  Before 
the  meeting  concluded  a  hundred  and  thirty  persons  had  sub- 
scribed £450,  and  I  have  no  doubt  that  before  this  month  is 
ended  the  whole  sum  required  to  build  a  church  of  1100  or  1200 
sittings  will  be  subscribed."-f- 

At  Olrig,  in  the  North,  the  foundation-stone  was  laid  on 
the  28th  of  June  by  Mr.  Mackenzie,  the  minister,  and  this 
having  been  done,  "  in  the  evening  after  the  labours  of  the  day 
were  over  the  people  turned  out  to  gather  materials  to  build 
the  walls.  Upwards  of  100  men  commenced  carrying  from  the 
sea-shore  to  the  beach  large  stones,  to  which  there  was  no  access 
by  carts,  some  of  them  bearing  their  burdens  on  hand-barrows — 
some  bearing  them  on  their  backs."  J 

*  Assembly  Proceedings,  Glasgow,  1843,  p.  111. 
t  Monthly  Statement,  March,  1844,  p.  3.        t  Witness,  12th  July,  1843. 


CHUECH  BUILDING.  271 

At  Tobermory,  in  the  Island  of  Mull,  a  site  was  obtained 
from  Mr.  Caldwell.  Next  day,  "  a  number  of  the  people  com- 
menced quarrying  and  blasting  stones,  others  clearing  the  foun- 
dation, under  the  superintendence  of  two  aged  and  experienced 
tradesmen,  chosen  by  the  people  at  a  meeting  held  for  arranging 
matters,  and  for  appointing  a  committee  of  management  to  guide 
our  proceedings,  and  among  other  becoming  resolutions  it  was 
agreed  that  no  person  was  to  be  employed  about  the  work  found 
guilty  of  taking  excess  of  ardent  spirits,  or  swearing  of  any  kind. 
The  foundation-stone  was  laid  on  the  14th  July.  The  Rev.  P. 
Maclean,  our  minister,  attended,  .  .  .  read  the  7th  chapter  of 
2  Samuel,  and  offered  up  a  most  impressive  prayer  in  the  hearing 
of  the  multitude,  who  united  in  their  Amen.  Lime  and  gravel 
have  been  brought  to  the  stance  by  boatmen,  mostly  free  from 
freight,  as  their  aid  to  build  the  Free  Church.  Masons  are 
offering  a  week  of  their  labour  gratis  ;  some  with  horses  and 
carts  work  to  the  value  of  a  pound  sterling,  and  poor  labourers 
do  work  generally  six  and  seven  days,  to  some  of  whom  we  are 
obliged  to  give  meal  while  serving  some  of  their  time,  for  which 
they  work,  in  addition  to  the  time  subscribed  for.  Such  is  the 
poverty  of  most  of  the  people  that  the  plan  is  unavoidably  neces- 
sary. .  .  .  However,  we  are  resolved  to  show  that  what  we  can 
do  we  shall  do."  * 

"  At  Aberdour,  Fifeshire,  a  beautiful  and  central  site  for  the 
Free  Church  has  been  procured  from  Robert  Anderson,  Esq., 
.  .  ,  and  such  is  the  life  and  energy  of  the  people  that  every 
night  from  50  to  100  men,  after  closing  their  daily  labour,  are 
to  be  seen  working  with  all  their  might  till  dark,  gratuitously, 
at  the  building."  -f- 

From  a  parish  in  Caithness,  a  report  comes  in  the  month 
of  June  :  "  The  people  are  most  impatient  to  have  the  church 
up,  and  last  evening  old  and  young  turned  out — eighty  spades 
were  at  work — and  in  less  than  half-an-hour  the  foundation  was 
dug  out,  and  before  two  hours  had  elapsed  the  earth  was  all  dis- 
posed of  in  making  up  some  hollow  ground  in  the  neighbour- 
hood. Nothing  can  exceed  the  enthusiasm  of  all  parties.  We 
are  the  first  to  commence,  and  I  hope  in  the  course  of  three 

♦  Monthly  Statement,  August,  1843.         +  Witness,  12th  August,  1843. 


272  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

months  the  roof  will  be  on.  The  wood  for  the  roof  and  floor  is 
ordered.  Lime  and  stone  we  have.  The  farmers  turn  out  to- 
morrow to  the  cartage,  and  the  masons  commence  on  the  26th  to 
the  side  walls."  * 

In  this  way  the  humbler  classes  evinced  their  attach- 
ment to  the  cause  which  they  had  at  heart.  Any  one  who 
has  stood,  as  the  writer  has,  in  the  midst  of  such  a  group  of 
workers  on  these  occasions,  must  have  felt  what  a  labour  of 
love  it  was.  They  were  joyful  scenes  at  the  time,  and  in  after 
days  the  very  fact  of  the  people  having  themselves  put  a  hand  to 
the  work,  attached  them  to  the  building  in  a  way  which  no 
money  contributions  could  have  done.  Ever  afterwards  the 
church  was  felt  to  belong  personally  to  themselves. 

One  of  the  most  lemarkable  examples  of  the  extent  to  which 
the  people  sometimes  carried  this  feeling — identifying  themselves 
with  their  church — occurred  at  Methven,  Perthshire. 

"  Considerably  more  than  a  hundred  years  ago,  Mr.  Graham,  of 
Balgowan  (Lord  Lynedoch),  was  one  day  passing  through  the 
village  of  Methven,  on  his  return  from  shooting,  when  a  dog, 
suddenly  rushing  out  from  a  house,  frightened  his  horse.  Mr. 
Graham  instantly  levelled  his  fowling-piece  and  shot  the  dog,  at 
the  same  time,  unfortunately, wounding  a  child  sitting  on  the  door- 
step. In  order  to  make  up  matters  with  the  father,  he  purchased 
from  the  laird  of  Methven  about  an  acre  of  ground,  contiguous 
to  the  man's  house,  and  presented  it  to  him,  as  a  solatium  for 
the  rash  act  he  had  committed.  On  that  piece  of  ground  the 
Free  Church  is  built.  When  I  came  to  the  place,  upwards 
of  thirty-one  years  ago,  that  child  was  still  alive,  upwards  of 
eighty  years  of  age,  a  member  of  the  Free  Church,  and  she 
prided  herself  not  a  little  on  the  facts  above  stated.  She  was 
then  a  pauper,  and  unable  to  contribute  anything  for  the  good 
cause,  but  she  considered  that  in  the  providence  of  God  she  had 
been  honoured  to  do  more  for  the  Free  Kirk  than  any  one  in 
this  quarter,  inasmuch  as  while  *  others  gae  their  siller  to  help 
to  build  it,  she  was  shot  to  get  a  site  for  it.'  "  f 


*   Witness,  28th  June,  1843. 
+  Letter  from  Mr.  M'Leish,  of  Methven,  22nd  January,  1877. 


CHUKCH  BUILDING,  273 

But  now,  instead  of  multiplying;  such  details,  it  may  be  best 
to  select  some  examples  of  parishes  in  different  parts  of  the 
country,  where  the  narratives  can  be  given  with  some  degree  of 
fuhiess,  enabling  the  reader  to  judge  of  wliat  was  actually  going 
forward,  and  how  building  operations  were  being  carried  on 
under  difficulties. 

The  first  case  is  that  of  Latheron,  in  the  North,  where  we  find 
]\Ir.  Davidson,  after  building  the  four  or  five  churches  which 
he  lost  at  the  Disruption,  entering  once  more,  with  characteristic 
ardour,  into  the  same  congenial  work. 

"  Measures  were  taken  for  the  immediate  erection  of  a  church 
to  accommodate  the  same  number  of  sitters  as  the  one  we  had 
left,  viz.,  about  800,  and  the  management  of  the  whole  concern 
committed  to  myself.  The  site,  contractor,  and  materials  for 
building  and  roofing  were  got  on  very  reasonable  terms ;  for  it 
so  happened,  providentially  for  the  Free  Church,  that  a  large 
vessel  laden  with  foreign  timber  was  cast  ashore  on  the  coast, 
and  the  whole  cargo  purchased  at  a  low  price  by  a  very  zealous 
Free  Churchman  ;  and  all  the  churches  built  that  season  in  the 
county  were  supplied  with  wood  of  the  best  quality,  at  a  very 
cheap  rate.  The  foundation-stone  of  our  church  was  laid  with 
great  solemnity  in  the  beginning  of  September,  and  the  building 
was  so  far  finished  as  to  admit  of  our  worshipping  in  it  in  the 
end  of  December.  The  people  cheerfully  gave  their  labour  in 
quarrying  stones  and  carrying  all  the  materials,  so  that,  when 
finished,  the  cost  did  not  exceed  £350.  Thus  the  work  went  on 
prosperously  until  brought  to  a  speedy  conclusion,  for  although 
little  obstacles  occasionally  presented  themselves,  they  were 
always  easily  removed,  and  sometimes  in  ways  rather  remarkable. 

"  At  one  time  six  lintels  were  wanted  for  the  windows,  and 
the  man  in  charge  came  and  told  me  that  they  had  been 
trying  to  get  such  in  the  quarry  for  a  week  back  and  had  not 
succeeded,  and  unless  procured  without  delay  the  work  would 
be  stopped.  This  was  rather  serious,  as  the  only  quarry  where 
such  could  be  purchased  was  eighteen  miles  distant.  I  there- 
fore asked  him  to  make  one  trial  more,  and  went  with  him,  but 
he  thought  it  would  be  in  vain.  I  said,  we  must  try ;  so  we 
examined  it,  and  at  a  particular  place  I  said,  '  What  if  you 

T 


274  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

should  try  that,  as  the  bed  seems  long  and  narrow.'  'Yes/  he 
replied  ;  '  but  it  is  so  bound  that  a  shot  may  break  it  in  pieces, 
but  will  not  move  the  whole;  only,  to  please  you  I  will  try/  So 
he  did.  The  whole  bed  was  moved  to  a  considerable  depth, 
and  next  day  he  told  me  that  it  had  just  furnished  the  six  solid 
lintels,  and  neither  more  or  less. 

"  Another  somewhat  remarkable  occurrence  happened  a  week 
or  two  afterwards.  We  had  forgotten  to  provide  freestone 
spurs  for  receiving  the  skews  on  the  gables,  and  none  were  to 
be  had  nearer  than  the  towns  of  Thurso  or  Wick,  distant 
respectively  twenty-three  and  seventeen  miles.  This  would 
occasion  delay ;  and  an  attempt  was  being  made  to  prepare 
them  of  common  stone,  when  a  large  stone  resembling  free- 
stone was  reported  as  discovered  on  a  hill  about  a  mile  distant. 
A  workman  was  sent  to  examine  it,  and  found  that  it  was  real 
freestone.  It  was  easily  broken  up,  and  conveyed  to  the 
building,  and  out  of  it  the  spurs  required  were  all  furnished. 
How  or  when  this  block  of  stone  came  to  be  here  no  one 
could  tell,  as  the  hill  was  entirely  barren,  covered  with  moss 
and  heath,  without  any  trace  of  the  humblest  dwelling  within 
half-a-mile  of  it,  and  no  account  of  anything  of  the  kind  having 
ever  been  found  in  the  locality,  or,  indeed,  in  the  parish  before 
or  since.  These  little  incidents  struck  us  very  forcibly  at  the 
time,  and  I  can  hardly  omit  noticing  them  as  tending  to  cheer 
us  in  the  work."* 

Beside  this  example  from  the  far  North,  we  place  the  case 
of  Westruther,  in  the  South,  where  difficulties  of  the  most  for- 
midable kind  had  to  be  overcome.  "  So  hostile,"  says  Mr. 
Wood,  "was  the  feeling  towards  the  newly-organised  Free  Church 
of  Scotland,  that  every  one  of  the  heritors  of  the  parish  combined 
to  refuse  every  facility  toward  the  building  of  a  place  of  wor- 
ship. Spottiswoode  of  that  ilk,  the  Earl  of  Lauderdale,  Ker 
Seymour  of  Cattleshiels,  Lord  Blantyre  of  Wedderlie,  Curie  of 
Evelaw,  and  Home  of  Bassendean,  would,  if  they  could,  have 
prevented  us  from  obtaining  a  site  on  which  to  build.  In  this 
matter,  however,  I  had  been  beforehand  with  them,  and  had 
secured  a  portion  of  a  feu  in  the  village  sufficient  for  the  pur- 

*  Parker  Mss.,  Pres.  of  Caithuess.     Paper  by  Mr.  Davidson,  pp.  5,  6. 


I 


CHURCH  BUILDING.  275 

pose,  and  the  missive  was  signed  before  any  one  knew  anything 
about  it.  Fortunate  it  was  that  I  had  succeeded  in  this,  for 
every  attempt  was  made  to  prevent  our  getting  possession.  The 
disposition  had  been  drawn  up,  and  the  lawyer  from  Dunse  had 
fixed  a  day  for  its  being  executed,  when  the  proprietor  informed 
us  that  he  had  changed  his  mind,  and  did  not  intend  to  sell. 
He  was  immediately  told  that  if  he  did  not  execute  the  disposi- 
tion an  action  would  be  raised  to  compel  him,  and  the  costs 
paid  out  of  the  price  of  the  land ;  and  as  he  found  on  inquiry 
that  he  was  bound  by  his  missive,  he  consented  with  a  suffi- 
ciently bad  grace  to  sign  the  deed,  on  which  we  immediately 
took  infeftment. 

"  Our  site  was  thus  secured,  but  every  quarry  and  every 
sand-pit  in  the  neighbourhood  was  closed  against  us.  Wood 
we  could  procure,  and  lime ;  but  the  other  necessaries  for 
building  were  not  within  our  reach.  In  these  circumstances,  I 
applied  to  one  whom  I  am  proud  to  call  my  friend,  the  late 
James  Cunningham,  of  Coldstream,  then  at  Greenlaw.  Few 
men  have  more  cheerfully  hazarded  all  for  the  principles  which 
they  held  than  he  did.  At  the  time  when  I  became  acquainted 
Avith  him,  he  was  in  the  employment  of  the  county  as  architect, 
surveyor  of  roads,  &c.  He  was  naturally  inclined  towards 
Liberal  sentiments,  which  made  him  give  some  attention  to  the 
progress  of  the  conflict  that  ended  in  the  Disruption,  and  it  was 
not  long  before  he  recognised  the  higher  and  holier  principles 
involved  in  it.  Then  he  heartily  cast  in  his  lot  with  the  Evan- 
gelical party.  No  one  who  knows  how  county  business  is 
managed,  especially  in  such  a  county  as  Berwickshire,  will  be 
surprised  to  learn  that  Mr.  Cunningham  was  looked  on  coldly 
because  of  his  Liberal  sentiments ;  that  his  leaving  the  Estab- 
lished Church  at  the  Disruption  was  considered  to  be  an  offence, 
and  his  giving  counsel  to  me  regarding  the  building  of  a  Free 
Church,  when  the  land-owners  had  resolved  that,  if  they  could 
help  it,  no  Free  Church  should  be  erected  at  Westruther,  was 
held  to  be  a  dereliction  of  duty  to  his  employers.  All  this 
time,  frankly,  freely,  generously  he  gave  his  valuable  assistance, 
and  I  never  heard  a  word  drop  from  his  lips  which  indicated 
the  slightest  reluctance  to  expose  himself  to  peril,  which  he 
must  very  weU  have  known  was  han<iinii  over  his  head.  .  .  . 


276  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISKUPTION. 

"  But,  to  return  to  my  narrative,  I  laid  all  my  difficulties 
before  my  counsellor — no  stone,  no  sand ;  how  are  we  to  build 
the  church ?  *  We  must  not  be  beat,'  said  he ;  'if  we  cannot  build 
of  stone,  we'll  build  of  wood.'  And,  accordingly,  he  drew  out  a 
plan  for  such  a  structure.  It  was  to  consist  of  wooden  pillars 
resting  on  stone  sockets,  for  we  had  the  means  of  securino-  a 
sufficient  number  of  stones  for  this  purpose,  and  the  space 
between  the  pillars  was  to  be  filled  up  with  planking.  With 
this  I  returned  home,  well-pleased  to  find  that  we  would  not  be 
obliged  to  succumb.  But  matters  turned  out  somewhat  better 
than  we  expected.  A  few  days  after  this,  and  before  any  steps 
hail  been  taken  toward  the  erection,  I  was  told,  late  in  the  evening, 
that  a  man  wanted  to  speak  to  me,  who  would  not  give  his 
name.  On  being  shown  into  my  study,  he  divested  himself  of 
wrappers  which  had  hitherto  concealed  his  identity,  and  I  recog- 
nised the  familiar  face  of  a  feuar  in  the  village.  *  Mr.  Wood,'  said 
he,  'I  hear  that  ye're  gaun  to  be  sair  pit  till't  to  get  yer  kirk  built, 
and  though  I  havena  joined  ye,  yet  I  like  ill  to  see  ye  beat.  I 
dinna  ken  about  stanes,  but  I  think  I  can  help  ye  to  sand.  My 
feu,  ye  ken,  lies  next  to  your  bit  land.  Noo,  I  hear  ye  canna  get 
sand,  and  I'm  bound  to  tell  ye  that,  there's  a  vein  of  extra- 
ordinary fine  building  sand  in  my  ground,  and  I  mak  nae  doot 
it  gangs  through  to  yours.  Ye  hae  only  to  dig,  and  ye'll  find 
plenty  o'  sand.  But  be  sure  ye  dinna  let  on  that  I  tell't  ye,  for 
I  dinna  want  to  hae  onybody's  ill-will  on  my  head.'  Having 
said  his  say,  he  nmffled  himself  up  again  so  as  not  to  be  recog- 
nised, and  took  his  departure.  The  vein  of  sand  was  found 
exactly  as  had  been  described,  and  the  discovery  in  some  degree 
altered  our  plan.  We  began  to  collect  all  the  stones  to  be 
found  in  the  neighbourhood.  A  friendly  farmer  carted  down 
for  us  all  that  were  lying  at  the  corners  of  his  fields,  and,  if  I 
recollect  right,  was  threatened  for  doing  so.  In  the  end  we 
found  ourselves  able  to  build  a  low  wall  a  foot  and  a-half  above 
the  ground,  into  which  the  stone  sockets  were  built  which  sup- 
ported the  wooden  pillars  ;  while  the  interval  between  the  pillars 
was  filled  up  with  a  wall  four  inches  thick,  built  of  small  stones 
and  mortar,  instead  of  the  planking  which  had  been  at  first  pro- 
posed.    The  roof,  as  the  fashion  was  in  Disruption  days,  was 


CHURCH  BUILDING.  277 

made  of  tarred  canvas,  and  indeed  our  walls  wonld  not  have 
borne  a  heavier  fabric.  Our  church  lasted  for  nine  or  ten 
years,  by  which  time  the  hostility  to  the  Free  Church  had 
ceased  to  manifest  itself  in  the  same  outrageous  fashion,  and 
the  temporary  building  was  replaced  by  a  solid  and  comfortable 
structure  of  stone,  which  was  formally  opened  op  the  1st  of 
November,  1854."* 

A  third  example  we  take  from  Muthill,  Perthshire,  in  one  of 
the  central  districts  of  Scotland.  It  will  show  with  what  in- 
domitable perseverance  the  difficulties  of  many  country  parishes 
were  met  and  overcome.  Mr.  Douglas,  one  of  the  licensed 
probationers  of  the  Church,  had  been  appointed  to  serve  there 
for  a  time,  and  tells  how  he  found  the  people  in  a  state  of  dis- 
couragement. "On  calling  a  meeting  the  evening  after  I 
arrived,  I  found  them  warm  in  the  cause,  but  labouring  under 
the  impression  that  they  would  never  be  able  to  build  a  church 
nor  to  get  a  minister  for  themselves.  .  .  .  They  had  collected 
up  to  the  second  week  of  June  only  £29  for  the  building  and 
Snstentation  Fund.  My  first  object  was  to  assure  them  that 
they  must  have  both  a  chiu-ch  of  their  own  and  a  settled 
minister  among  them,  and  accordingly  we  made  arrangements 
for  working  vigorously  during  a  collecting  week  to  raise  more 
funds  for  building.  The  week  came  and  passed,  and  the  sum 
total  of  the  collection  was  only  £11.  This  was  a  proof  that 
the  fear  of  having  no  church  of  their  own  was  chillino;  and 
damping  all  their  efforts.  .  .  . 

"  It  was  no  easy  matter  to  get  this  fear  altogether  removed, 
for  as  the  people  began  to  be  convinced  of  the  willingness  of  the 
church  at  large  to  help  them,  they  began  to  see  and  to  feel 
difficulties  which  the  church  had  not  the  power  to  remove.  No 
site  could  be  obtained — no  stones — no  sand  for  building  could 
be  had  on  any  terms.  "We  had  held  many  meetings,  to  which  all 
friendly  parties  were  freely  admitted.  There  was  nominally  a 
committee,  but  it  consisted  of  all  who  chose  to  come  and  offer 
advice.  We  had  thus  every  engine  at  work.  Some  were 
appointed  to  inquire  for  a  site,  some  for  stones,  some  for  build- 
ing sand,  and  most  earnestly  did  they  fulfil  their  tasks.  But  all 
*  Disr.  jMss.  1.  pp.  37-41. 


278  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 

returned  with  the  same  answer — no  site,  stones,  or  sand  could 
be  obtained  for  love  or  money.  There  were  some  feus  for  sale 
in  the  village,  but  there  were  legal  difficulties  connected  with 
every  one  of  them,  which  we'  saw  no  prospect  of  removing. 
The  factor,  who  had  the  disposal  of  the  land  all  around,  was 
applied  to  by  as  influential  a  deputation  as  we  could  muster. 
That  deputation  waited  on  "  him,  "  and  tried  all  possible  means 
to  obtain  what  we  needed,  but  the  stern  reply  was,  no  site,  no 
stones,  no  sand.  There  was '  plenty  at  our  very  doors,  and  we 
ofifered  payment,  but  nothing  could  we  get.* 

"  Hitherto  all  was  dark.  Some  were  despairing,  many  were 
beginning  to  consider  what  congregation  in  the  neighbourhood 
they  should  join — not  one  thought  of  going  back,  not  one  left 
us.  Meanwhile,  I  had  been  reappointed  to  serve  some  time 
longer  in  the  Presbytery,  and  still  to  reside  in  Muthill,  But 
there  was  less  prospect  than  ever  of  getting  a  church,  and  con- 
sequently of  forming  a  permanent  congregation.  However,  our 
efforts  were  still  continued.  We  were  persecuted,  but  not  for- 
saken ;  we  were  perplexed,  but  not  in  despair.  At  last  light 
began  to  dawn.  An  old  man  in  the  village  offered  to  give  us  a 
part  of  his  garden  as  a  site,  and  as  there  was  no  proper  entry, 
he  agreed  to  let  us  a  small  house  in  front,  part  of  which  might 
be  removed  to  form  an  entry.  We  took  the  whole  on  a  lease 
for  fifty  years,  the  longest  period  he  would  agree  to,  and  engaged 
to  pay  £4,  8s.  as  rent. 

"  Thus,  then,  we  had  got  a  site,  but  not  a  stone  could  be  had 
to  build  on  it,  neither  could  we  get  sand.  Here  we  met  with  a 
most  striking  providence.  Two  men,  masons,  whom  we  had 
appointed  to  scour  the  country  far  and  wide  in  search  of  build- 
ing sand,  were  on  their  way  to  a  place  six  miles  off,  where  they 
thought  they  might  get  it.  In  crossing  along  they  saw  a  huge 
heap  of  stones  in  a  field,  almost  hidden  by  young  trees.  They 
went  aside  to  look  at  them,  and  though  they  were  great  coarse 

*  "  It  is  but  justice,  however,  to  add,  that  we  afterwards  got  both 
stones  and  sand  without  payment  for  building  the  schoolhouse,  by  apply- 
ing directly  to  Lord  Willoughby,  the  proprietor  of  the  surrounding  lauds. 
Unfortunately,  he  was  in  Italy  when  we  were  in  our  difficulties  about  the 
church. 


CHUECH  BUILDING.  279 

boulders  of  the  most  unpromising  kind,  the  men  thought  they 
would  do  for  building,  provided  they  could  be  obtained.  Being 
satisfied  of  this,  they  went  directly  to  the  proprietor  and  stated 
the  case.  He  received  them  most  kindly,  and  gave  them  a  full 
free  grant  of  the  whole  heap.  It  contained  700  or  800  cart- 
loads, which  had  been  dug  out  of  the  land  and  heaped  up  there 
ten  years  before.  The  place  was  four  miles  distant  from  the 
site,  but  no  toll  to  pay  for  cartage.  The  proprietor  who  thus 
dealt  so  kindly  toward  us  was  Mr.  Gillespie  Graham,  of 
Orchill. 

"  The  two  men  were  overjoyed.  They  went  next  to  Braco 
Castle,  and  waited  on  Mr,  G.  D.  Stewart.  He  gave  them  at 
once  a  free  grant  of  as  much  sand  as  they  might  need.  They 
came  back  rejoicing.  Our  way  so  far  was  now  plain  ;  we  had 
a  site,  and  stones,  and  sand  for  building,  but  we  had  little  or 
no  money.  We  had  a  distant  promise  of  help  from  the  Building 
Committee  in  Edinburgh,  but  we  had  only  £35  in  hand  to  go 
on  with,  and  the  month  of  July  was  already  past. 

"  We  determined,  however,  to  proceed.  We  already  began  to 
say  to  one  another,  surely  the  Lord  is  preparing  our  way,  and 
we  trusted  that  as  He  had  now  removed  so  many  strange  and 
apparently  insurmountable  obstacles.  He  would  in  due  time 
enable  us  to  surmount  all  that  might  meet  us.  We  felt  that 
what  had  been  accomplished  on  our  behalf  was  a  call  to  go  on 
in  faith.  Accordingly,  plans  were  sketched  out  for  the  proposed 
building,  and  one  for  676  sittings,  with  galleries,  was  approved  of. 
Specifications  for  the  walls  were  written  out,  and  a  contract  taken 
for  building  them.  Some  in  the  congregation  disapproved  of  this 
step.  They  thought  it  rash — nay,  madness,  to  commence  build- 
ing a  church  for  nearly  700  persons,  with  only  £35  in  hand,  and 
without  knowing  where  we  are  to  get  another  penny.  It  certainly 
did  seem  rashness,  but  the  reasons  which  moved  us  to  attempt 
building  so  large  a  church  with  such  small  funds  in  hand  could 
not  be  understood  except  by  those  who  were  on  the  spot  at  the 
time,  and  acquainted  with  the  general  state  of  feeling  amono- 
the  people.  We  acted,  as  we  thought,  for  the  best.  We  could 
count  on  all  the  cartage  of  materials  free,  and  we  thought  that 
our  £35  would  meet  some  incidental  expenses  till  the  walls 


280  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 

would  be  finished,  and  then  we  could  go  to  the  people  and  ask 
more  money.  We  went  even  further — we  bought  wood  for  roof 
and  floors,  and  took  contracts  for  finishing  the  whole  outer 
shell  of  the-  church  without  ever  attempting  to  raise  more 
money. 

"  We  were  in  this  state,  the  work  going  on  in  the  month  of 
November.  The  Assembly  met  in  Glasgow,  .  .  .  and  I  shall 
never  for^ret  the  feelings  awakened  within  me  when  in  giving 
in  one  of  the  reports,  Dr.  Chalmers  spoke  of  the  pernicious  mad- 
ness of  a  congregation  in  the  North,  who  proposed  to  build  a 
church  for  700,  with  less  than  £40  in  their  subscription  books. 
Perhaps  he  alluded  to  some  other,  but  I  felt  that  it  could  be  no 
other  than  my  own  poor  congregation  (I  had  been  ordained  to 
the  pastoral  charge  of  it  in  September).  I  felt  crushed  by  the 
expression,  but  was  relieved  a  good  deal  when  the  Rev.  Dr.  said 
he  would  name  no  names. 

"  On  my  return  from  the  Assembly,  I  found  the  work  still  going 
on.  The  roof  was  up  and  the  slates  ready  to  put  on.  It  was 
high  time  to  get  more  cash.  We  were  already  in  debt  for  upwards 
of  £200,  and  our  £35  was  all  spent.  We  resolved  to  try  another 
subscription,  although  the  two  previous  trials  had  yielded  only 
£35.  The  great  bulk  of  the  people  had  said  they  would  subscribe 
no  more  till  they  saw  a  church  built ;  not  a  very  likely  way,  cer- 
tainly, to  get  a  church,  but  such  was  their  determination,  and  so 
strong,  that  we  saw  it  vain  to  attempt  overcoming  it.  But  we 
could  now  go  to  the  people  and  meet  them  on  their  own  ground — 
the  church  was  built.  Accordingly,  the  collectors  were  furnished 
with  books,  a  week  appointed  for  collecting,  an  appeal  made 
to  the  people  on  the  Sabbath,  and  it  was  well  answered.  In 
less  than  a  week  we  had  collected  about  £100.  This  surprised 
everybody — the  people  were  so  poor.  However,  this  sum  was 
not  enough.  Another  effort  must  be  made.  A  day  was  fixed, 
about  a  month  thereafter,  for  opening  the  church,  which  was  as 
yet  only  a  mere  shell,  fitted  up  with  temporary  benches  on  the 
ground  floor.  The  day  was  stormy,  but  £57  was  collected  at  the 
church  door,  and  the  highest  offering  was  £1  note.  This 
astonished  every  one,  and  did  more  to  confound  our  adversaries 
than   anything  that  had  yet  happened.     About  the  same  time 


I 


CHUECH  BUILDING,  281 

we  got  £169  from  the  General  Building  Fund.  Thus  we  were 
out  of  debt,  all  things  paid  for,  and  £80  in  the  bank. 

"We  now  saw  our  way  more  clearly.  The  people  were  in  better 
spirits.  They  saw  more  what  they  could  do.  Yet  every  one 
felt  disposed  to  admire  the  wonderful  providence  by  which  our 
matters  had  hitherto  been  overruled. 

"  In  the  spring  of  1844  we  behoved  to  make  further  efforts. 
The  church  was  not  half-finished.  Contracts  were  taken  for 
finishing  it.  Another  subscription  was  raised  in  May,  1844,  and 
wlien  the  work  was  finished  we  had  another  opening  collection 
in  November,  which  produced  £26.  In  that  month  the  seats 
were  allocated,  and  the  congregation  requested  to  contribute 
whatever  they  felt  able  as  entry-money  for  the  seats.  This  pro- 
duced nearly  £30.  Still  there  was  debt,  and  some  work  to  do 
in  fittings  and  painting,  &c.  &c.  Another  subscription  was 
raised  to  meet  these  demands,  and  exceeded  them.  Thus  every 
farthing  of  debt  was  paid,  and  a  balance  over."  * 

In  the  midst  of  these  struggles,  however,  there  was  one 
favourable  circumstance  which  should  not  be  forgotten — the 
low  rate  of  building  materials  and  wages  in  1843.  If  the  price 
had  been  what  it  soon  afterwards  became,  it  would  have 
been  hard,  even  with  all  the  self-denial  of  the  Church's  friends, 
to  have  contended  with  the  difficulties  of  such  an  undertaking. 
But  in  the  providence  of  God  it  was  so  ordered  that  there  was 
little  demand  for  building  operations  in  the  country,  except  the 
building  of  these  churches. 

"  Many  remarked,"  Dr.  Lorimer,  of  Glasgow,  states,  "  the 
moderate  cost  of  building  in  that  year.  It  was  commonly  said 
that  the  same  buildings  a  few  years  later  would  have  cost  one- 
third  more."  -f 

In  1845,  Mr.  Earle  Monteith,  in  giving  in  the  report  on  the 
New  College,  mentioned  that,  "  from  circumstances  which  are  too 
well  known  to  require  illustration,  the  rate  of  wages  and  the 
price  of  materials  have  so  much  increased,  that  although  when 
the  estimates  were  made  out  it  would  have  been  built  for 
£20,000,  we  have  learned  from  Mr.  Playfair  that  if  it  is  to  be 

*  Disr.  Mss.  viii.  py.  o-U.  t  Parker  jSIss.,  Presb.  of  Glasgow. 


282  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

built  now,  there  will  be  25  per  cent,  of  an  increase  on  the  esti- 
mates, and  that  which  will  now  cost  £25,000  might  have  been 
built  last  year  (1844)  at  a  cost  of  £20,000."* 

Even  in  1844  one  of  the  Glasgow  newspapers  states  :  "  We 
are  informed  that  the  advance  in  the  price  of  American  timber 
within  the  last  twelvemonths  has  been  nearly  50  per  cent."  -f- 

Thus  rapidly  were  the  prices  going  up.  It  was  surely  one  of 
the  providential  circumstances  connected  with  the  Disruption 
that  at  a  time  when  700  churches  had  to  be  erected  the  building 
trades  had  less  employment  of  any  other  kind  than  had  been 
known  for  a  long  course  of  years,  and  that  both  wages  and  the 
price  of  building  materials  had  sunk  to  a  point  which  they  have 
not  often  reached. 

There  is  a  deeply-seated  instinct  of  the  Scottish  national 
character  which  occasionally  came  into  view — the  desire,  amidst 
the  activities  of  the  present,  to  keep  hold  of  the  memories  of 
the  past. 

ISuuietimes  it  appeared  in  connection  with  trivial  circum- 
stances. The  old  parish  church  of  Stevenston  dated  back  to 
Roman  Catholic  times,  and  when  a  new  church  was  erected,  the 
old  weather-cock  had  been  given  to  Major  Martin,  who  made  a 
present  of  it  to  Mr.  Landsborough.  It  had  been  fixed  in  one  of 
the  outhouses  of  the  manse,  but  at  the  flitting  after  the  Disrup- 
tion, Mr.  Landsborough  did  not  forget  it,  "  and  when  Saltcoats 
Free  Church  was  completed,  the  poor  cock,  who  had  fallen 
from  his  high  estate  and  passed  through  many  vicissitudes, 
was  again  exalted  to  his  former  dignity,  where  he  looks  as 
proud  and  self-important  as  when  he  presided  over  'the  auld 
kirk  o'  Steynstoune."':J: 

Sometimes  it  came  in  a  form  which  appealed  to  more  solemn 
memories.  At  Muirkirk,  the  people  met  on  the  27th  of 
August,  when  addresses  were  delivered  and  services  held  for 
two  hours,  which  ended  in  the  singing  of  the  last  verses  of  Psalm 
cxxii.  "  A  blue  silk  banner,  having  a  St.  Andrew's  cross  in  faded 
Avhite  on  the  upper  and  inner  border,  and  a  dark-coloured  crown 
over  a  thistle  opposite,  with  the  words  painted  brown  in  the  centre, 
*  Assembly  Proceedings,     t  Witness,28th. Dec.  1S44.     X  JMemoir,  p.  170. 


CHUECH  BUILDING.  28:5 

*  Moorkirk — For  God — King  and  Covenant/  and  which  is  said  to 
have  seen  service  at  Drumclog,  was  furnished  for  the  occasion  bv 
Mr.  John  Gemmill,  farmer  at  Garple,  in  the  parish,  to  whose  family 
this  heirloom  has  nowdescendedfrom  the  Campbells  of  Auldhouse 
Burn,  also  in  the  parish."  *  It  is  not  difficult  in  such  an 
incident — the  carrying  forth  of  that  old,  faded,  blue-silk  banner 
— to  read  what  the  sentiments  were  which  filled  men's  hearts 
when  they  met  together  to  lay  the  foundation-stone  of  their 
church. 

But  now,  in  the  midst  of  these  difficulties  on  the  one  hand, 
and  that  assistance  on  the  other,  we  may  note  the  progress  of 
church  building.  It  was  marked  and  rapid.  In  May,  1844! — 
one  year  after  the  Disruption — 470  churches  were  reported  as 
already  built  and  completed,  or  on  the  point  of  immediate 
completion.  Fifty  of  the  quoad  sacra  churches  were  still  re- 
tained, so  that  as  the  result  of  one  year's  work,  520  congrega- 
tions were  already  provided  for. 

In  May,  1845,  sixty  additional  churches  were  reported  as 
finished. 

Again,  in  1846,  ninety-five  new  churches  were  added,  and  in 
May,  1847,  fifty-five  more  were  reported.  Thus,  at  the  end  of 
four  years,  considerably  more  than  700  churches  had  been 
provided. 

Among  the  hundreds  of  buildings  thus  put  up,  it  must  be 
admitted  that  there  were  many  whose  architectural  appearance 
was  of  the  humblest  kind.  The  Free  Church  might  well  be 
satisfied,  indeed,  with  the  skill  of  those  architects — men  of  hifrh 
standing — who,  with  more  than  professional  zeal,  gave  their  ser- 
dces  to  the  cause.  But  their  task  was  difficult.  The  grant  from 
the  general  fund  was  at  the  rate  of  five  shillings  a-sitting.  In 
many  cases  the  poverty  of  the  people  did  not  allow  of  their 
raising  any  adequate  additional  sum,-f-  and  very  humble  build- 
ings, therefore,  had  to  be  erected.     Even  in  the  larger  towns, 

*   Witness,  14th  Sept.  1844. 
t  At  Latheron,  a  church  seated  for  800  is  built  for  £ZbO,  another  in 
the  North  is  reported   as  finished  at  eight   shillings    a-sitting.     What 
could  architects  do  within  such  limits  1 


284  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 

wealthy  congregations  vied  with  each  other  in  the  effort  to 
make  their  churches  cheap  and  plain,  in  order  that  they  might 
be  able  the  more  liberally  to  help  their  poorer  brethren  in  the 
country. 

.  And  yet,  in  spite  of  all  this,  cases  were  not  awanting  in 
which  cheapness  of  construction  was  combined  with  no  small 
measure  of  architectural  effect.  This  was  seen,  for  example,  at 
Saltcoats,  where  a  site  was  obtained,  as  we  saw,  through  the 
kindness  of  Dr.  Dow.  "  The  ground,"  Dr.  Landsborough  writes, 
"was  in  an  excellent  situation,  but,  as  it  was  triangular,  we 
feared  that  it  might  not  answer  as  a  site  of  a  church,  especially 
as  a  person  of  some  architectural  skill  said  that  it  was  out  of 
the  question.  Knowing  the  high  character  of  Mr.  Cousin,  of 
Edinburgh,  as  an  architect,  we  applied  to  him  for  advice,  giving 
him  a  plan  of  the  ground.  He  wrote,  that  a  church  contain- 
ing 700  sittings  might  be  erected  on  it,  but  that  it  would 
require  a  special  plan."  Though  they  had  to  keep  within 
fifteen  shillings  a-sitting,  it  is  stated :  "We  have  got  not  only  a 
cheap  and  substantial  church,  but  one  which  is  tasteful  in  its 
external  appearance,  and  still  more  so  in  its  internal  arrange- 
ments. I  am  more  than  borne  out  in  all  that  I  have  stated  by 
what  was  said  to  me  by  a.  baronet,  not  only  of  good  taste,  but 
of  so  much  acknowledged  worth,  that  I  wish  I  could  say  he  is  a 
Free  Churchman.  '  I  have  just  been  admiring,'  said  he,  '  your 
new  church.  It  and  the  church  at  Ascog,  in  Bute,  are 
the  most  beautiful  churches  in    Scotland.'     'That  is  highly 

complimentary,  Sir ,'  said  I.     '  Yes,'  he  replied,  *  but  the 

compliment  is  merited.' "  * 

The  most  remarkable,  however,  of  such  cases,  was  the  build- 
ing erected  for  the  three  leading  congregations  in  Aberdeen, 
The  site  was  the  finest  in  that  city,  and  was  admirably  turned 
to  account  by  the  architect  who  had  been  selected.  One  of  the 
local  newspapers,  far  from  friendly  to  the  Free  Church,  described 
the  building  at  the  time  of  its  opening  as  having  "  added  a  new 
and  strikingly  picturesque  feature  to  the  already  numerous 
architectural  embellishments  of  our  city.  The  fabric  is  composed 
of  a  group  of  three  churches,  and  when  viewed  from  Union 
*  Witness,  2nd  March,  1844. 


CHUECH  BUILDING.  285 

Bridge  has  the  aspect  of  a  cathedral.  ...  In  the  angle,  formed 
by  the  nave  and  south  transept,  rises  a  lofty  square  tower,  from 
which  springs  a  spire  of  the  most  airy  proportions.  The  height 
of  the  tower  is  90  feet,  and  of  the  spire,  8-i  ;  making  the  whole 
elevation  above  the  ground  level  174  feet,  and  above  the 
Denburn,  204  feet.  .  .  .  The  style  of  the  fabric,  which  is  most 
chastely  and  appropriately  sustained  throughout,  is  that  of  the 
simple  lancet  Gothic.  The  eflfect  of  the  group  is  extremely 
imposing  and  picturesque,  partly  owing  to  the  advantages  of  the 
site  selected  for  the  fabric.  Perhaps  the  most  picturesque  view 
of  the  building  is  obtained  from  a  point  in  Union  Terrace, 
where  the  great  western  window,  tower,  and  spire  are  partially 
revealed  through  the  intervening  foliage.  The  building  is  from 
a  design  from  Mr.  Archibald  Simpson  of  this  city,  and  deserves 
to  be  classed  with  the  most  successful  specimens  of  his  skill, 
genius,  and  taste.  We  understand  the  whole  expense  of  the 
building  [containing  3446  sittings  in  the  three  churches]  will 
be  under  £5000.  Considerations  of  economy  suggested  the 
employment  of  the  least  expensive  materials,  and  the  result  has 
been  a  remarkable  exemplification  to  how  great  account  such 
means  may  be  turned  in  the  hands  of  professional  talent."*  It 
is  only  right  to  state  that  much  of  this  success  was  due  to 
Francis  Edmond,  Esq.,  advocate,  who  rendered  valuable  service, 
first  in  securing  the  site,  and  afterwards  in  carrying  througli 
the  undertaking. 

Thus,  amidst  the  co-operation  of  many  willing  hands,  hun- 
dreds of  churches,  in  very  various  forms  rose  over  the  land. 
There  were  interesting  days  connected  with  the  laying  of  the 
foundation-stones,  and  not  less  interesting  scenes  at  the  opening 
of  the  churches  themselves.  In  the  great  majority  of  cases, 
winter  had  come  before  the  buildings  were  ready.  Of  the 
incidents  connected  with  the  opening  services,  a  few  examples 
may  be  given. 

The  Free  Church  of  Gatehouse  (Girthon)  was  opened  on  the 

8th  December.     "  No  doubt,  nmny  of  the  congregation  called 

to  remembrance  the  dying  prayer  of  their  late  much-beloved 

pastor  [Mr.  Jetirey],  when  he  said,  in  reference  to  this  building, 

*  Quoted  in  Witness,  28th  August,  1844. 


286  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

'Let  the  copestone  be  brought  forth  with  shoutings,  crying, 
Grace,  grace,  unto  it ! '  .  .  ,  Every  pew  and  passage  was  crowded 
to  excess."  * 

At  Torphichen,  the  Free  Church  was  opened  by  Dr.  Hether- 
ington,  on  Sabbath,  the  6th  August.  It  is  seated  for  400,  but 
the  day  was  fine,  and  soon  after  the  door  was  opened  the  build- 
ing was  filled,  there  being  within  the  walls  nearly  500,  and 
many  were  standing  in  the  porch  and  round  the  doors.  The 
meeting  displayed  not  only  the  greatest  regularity,  earnestness, 
and  order,  but  repeatedly  manifested  deep  emotion  when  even  a 
brief  reference  was  made  to  the  solemn  circumstances  of  the 
event.  -|- 

"At  the  end  of  November,  1845,  our  new  church  [Ayr]  was 
opened  by  the  Eev.  Dr.  Brown,  of  Free  St,  John's,  Glasgow  ;  and 
the  Eev.  Dr.  Candlish,  of  Free  St.  George's,  Edinburgh.  Our 
opening  collection  amounted  to  £300,  then  thought  a  large  sum. 
The  church  cost  £3300.  In  preaching  for  the  last  time  in  the 
wooden  church,  my  text  had  been,  '  If  Thy  presence  go  not 
with  us,  carry  us  not  up  hence.'  I  still  remember  the  thrill  of 
delight  with  which  I  heard  Dr.  Brown  give  out  the  first  text  in 
our  new  church — '  My  presence  shall  go  with  thee.'  The  people 
thought  that  Dr.  Brown  and  I  had  arranged  it  thus.  But  it 
was  not  so.  It  was  only  the  night  before  that  Dr.  Brown  had 
learned  what  my  text  had  been,  and  I  did  not  know  what  his 
text  was  until  I  heard  it  from  the  pulpit."  I 

The  feelings  with  which  the  people  entered  on  the  posses- 
sion of  their  new  churches  were  sometimes  very  openly  shown. 
"We  are  all  very  anxious,"  one  writes,  4th  November,  1843, 
"  at  the  thought  of  being  two  more  Sundays  in  the  barn.  Last 
day  some  of  the  people  were  trembling  with  cold  the  whole  time." 
Again,  23rd  November — "  We  had  a  beautiful  day  last  Sabbath 
for  the  opening — the  roads  hard  and  dry,  the  church  packed 
full.  I  wish  you  could  have  seen  the  faces  of  the  people,  who 
are  not  great  adepts  at  concealing  their  feelings,  each  looking 
as  if  the  church  was  his  own  individual  concern.  .  .  .  And  oh  I 

*   IVitness,  14th  Decexnher,  1S44. 

t   Witness,  12th  August,  1843. 

I  Disr.  Mss.  xli.  p.  12,  Rev.  W.  Grant 


CHUKCH  BUILDING.  287 

the  faces  of  some  of  them  as  they  came  out ;  they  seemed  to 
feci  as  if  it  were  a  subject  beyond  speaking  about." 

Of  the  minister's  feelings  in  his  opening  services,  we  give  a 
single  example  from  the  sermon  of  Dr.  Candlish  when  enter- 
ing his  new  church  in  the  Lothian  Eoad.  "  It  was  a  grand 
Gospel  sermon,"  says  Mr.  Maclagan,  "  very  full  of  solemnity, 
in  argument  and  appeal.  The  roll  of  that  musical  voice  is 
perhaps  in  the  ears  of  others  as  it  is  in  mine,  when  with  these 
words,  thrilling  like  a  prophet's  warning,  he  concluded :  '  Such 
is  our  Gospel.  We  have  considered,  brethren,  how  best  we 
might  improve  this  occasion  of  the  opening  of  our  new  house 
of  prayer,  and  we  have  been  led  to  take  advantage  of  it  for 
bringing  before  you,  as  God  enabled  us,  a  simple  summary  of 
the  evangelical  message  in  its  connection  with  the  sovereignty 
which  it  asserts  on  the  one  hand,  and  the  submission  which  it 
requires  on  the  other. 

"  '  Nor  does  it  seem  necessary  to  add  more  than  a  single 
remark.  Your  presence  in  this  sanctuary,  and  my  occupying 
this  chair  of  truth,  pledge  us  mutually — you  to  hear,  and  me  to 
proclaim  this  counsel  of  God.  May  the  Lord  give  us  grace  to 
be  faithful.  Or,  if  ever  the  time  shall  be  when  you,  or  those 
who  come  after  you  to  fill  these  seats,  may  refuse  to  hear  this 
wholesome  doctrine ;  or  when  I,  or  those  who  take  my  place  in 
this  pulpit,  may  shun  to  declare  it — sooner  may  this  fair  and 
goodly  structure  crumble  in  the  dust,  and  of  all  its  ample  walls 
not  one  stone  be  left  upon  another  that  shall  not  be  cast 
down.' "  * 

But  while  men  were  thankful  thus  to  enter  their  churches, 
yet  there  were  sacred  memories  connected  with  many  of  those 
temporary  places  of  worship  which  were  fondly  cherished,  and 
in  some  cases  they  found  touching  expression  in  various  forms. 

Thus,  at  Kilsyth,  Dr.  Burns  states :  "  Our  people  have  a 
sweet  recollection  of  the  meetings  we  have  had  at  the  tent  by 
the  Garrel  stream.     The  summer  following  we  had  one  meeting 

*  History  of  St.  George's,  Edinburgh,  p.  92. 


288  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 

there,  on  a  warm  Sabbath-day,  as  a  pleasing  renovation  and 
reminiscence  of  those  days  gone  by."  * 

At  Greenock,  during  the  time  that  the  Gaelic  congregation 
were  worshipping  in  the  old  dilapidated  West  Church,  three 
communions  were  dispensed ;  "  and  solemn  communion  seasons 
they  were,  Mr.  M'Bean  (the  pastor)  often  remarking  to  his 
friends,  in  the  course  of  conversation,  that  he  enjoyed  much  of 
his  Master's  presence  on  these  occasions."-|- 

Of  the  wooden  churches,  that  which  outlasted  all  others  was 
the  church  at  Monzie,  erected  at  the  expense  of  Mr.  Campbell, 
then  M.P.  for  Argyllshire.  Mr.  Omond  states  :  "  It  was  more 
commodious  than  ornamental ;  but  it  was  comfortable,  and  its 
acoustics  were  perfect.  It  was  completed  and  taken  possession 
of  on  the  27th  August.  It  was  replaced  in  1868  by  a  per- 
manent and  more  beautiful  structure  ;  but  hallowed  memories 
cluster  round  the  old  place — memories  of  a  time  when  the 
Lord's  goings  were  heard  in  that  sanctuary,  and  when  much 
blessing  was  experienced  by  many  who  have  left  the  service 
on  earth  for  the  higher  service  above.";}: 

With  similar  feelings,  Mr.  Maclagan  refers,  to  the  memorable 
brick  church  in  Castle  Terrace,  which  Dr.  Candlish  and  his 
congregation  occupied  at  first  as  a  temporary  place  of  worship. 
"  I  cannot  allow  myself  to  part  from  the  brick  church  without  a 
few  words.  I  know  not  how  it  may  be  with  others  among  us 
who  remember  our  services  there,  but  to  me  its  memories  are 
inexpressibly  solemn  and  tender.  The  Disruption,  no  doubt, 
was  a  quickening  time  in  the  highest  and  best  sense,  but  it  was 
also  a  time  full  of  affecting  associations  and  painful  regrets. 
Both  combined  made  the  eighteen  mouths  of  our  brick-church 
worship  very  memorable.  Its  communions  were  singularly 
impressive  occasions,  and  there  are  other  days  of  bright  and 
hallowed  service  which  are  quite  unforgettable.  It  was  at  the 
July  Communion  of  1843  that  Dr.  Chalmers  preached,  with 
wonderful  vigour,  on  the  Sabbath  evening  from  the  text,  '  The 
harvest  is  past,  the  summer  is  ended,  and  we  are  not  saved ' 

*  Disr.  Mss.  xxix.  p.  14. 

t  Disruption  Eeniinisceuces,  &c.,  by  A.  J.  Black,  p.  19. 

X  Disr.  Mss.  IxL 


CHUECH  BUILDING.  289 

(Jer.  viii.  20) — the  sermon  published  in  his  works.  It  may 
be  sentimentalism,  or  that  tenderness  with  which  as  our  years 
increase  upon  us  we  regard  old  times  and  places,  but  whatever 
may  be  its  origin,  I  have  a  feeling  of  refreshing  and  revival  as 
I  look  back  upon  the  brick  church.  One  of  our  poets  has 
expressed  the  experience  I  refer  to — 

"  '  There  are  in  our  existence  spots  of  time 
That  with  distinct  pre-eminence  retain 
A  renovating  virtue.' "  * 

One  more  illustration  we  take  from  a  country  parish  in  East 
Lothian,  as  described  by  Mr.  Dodds,  partly  in  prose  and  partly 
in  verse.  "  I  preached  during  the  whole  summer  in  Humbie 
Dean,  from  the  tent  that  was  erected  every  Sabbath  morning. 
The  spot  where  we  met  was  a  hollow  in  the  steep  bank,  formed 
by  the  hand  of  nature,  and  overshadowed  by  tall  trees.  It  was 
a  secluded  and  romantic  place,  and  most  convenient  for  our 
purpose.  Both  the  people  and  myself  became  much  attached 
to  it,  and  it  is  now  famous  in  the  paiish  of  Humbie.  -f- 

"  In  that  sweet  spot,  the  summer  long, 
We  met  each  Sabbath  day. 
***** 

"  There,  oft  the  father  gave  his  child 

In  covenant  to  God, 
And  vowed  to  rear  it  in  the  paths 

His  faithful  fathers  trod. 
God's  grace  be  with  the  little  babes 

Who  thus  in  faith  have  been 
Baptised  with  water  from  the  brook 

In  lovely  Humbie  Dean. 

"  And  there  one  holy  Sabbath  day, 

The  blest  Communion  board 
We  spread  in  reverence  and  love — 

The  table  of  the  Lord. 
We  biake  the  bread,  and  di'ank  the  wine, 

And  oh  !  what  things  unseen  ; 
We  saw  so  clear,  and  felt  so  near. 

In  lovely  Humbie  Dean. 

*  History  of  St.  George's,  Edinburgh,  pp.  90,  91, 
+  Disr.  Mss.  xxxiii.  pp.  3-5. 

U 


290  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISKUPTION. 

"  Oh  !  never  let  from  me  depart 

The  memory  of  that  place, 
Where  on  the  worn  and  weary  heart 

Fell  such  sweet  showers  of  grace. 
And  may  we  meet  before  the  throne. 

Our  robes  washed  white  and  clenn. 
Who  met  as  followers  of  the  Lamb 

In  lovely  Humbie  Dean.'' 


THE  SUSTENTATION  FUND.  291 


XXIV.  The  Sustentation  Fund. 

The  first  step,  then,  had  been  successfully  taken — the  build- 
ing of  churches  was  provided  for.  But  there  was  another 
demand,  not  less  immediately  urgent.  Incomes  must  be  found 
for  the  hundreds  of  ministers  whose  livings  had  been  sacrificed, 
and  religious  ordinances  must  be  supplied  in  answer  to  those 
appeals  of  the  people,  which  came  from  every  district,  and 
from  almost  every  parish  in  the  land.  To  meet  the  demands 
of  such  an  emergency  it  was  evident  that  some  special  effort 
would  be  required. 

The  keen  discussions  of  the  voluntary  controversy  had  so  far 
prepared  the  way.  There  had  been  laid  bare — as  was  believed 
— one  point  of  weakness  in  the  system  of  those  Dissenting 
Churches,  where  each  was  left,  financially,  to  stand  alone.  In 
not  a  few  weak  and  struggling  congregations  there  was  much 
that  was  trying  both  to  minister  and  people,  while  in  poor  and 
thinly-peopled  districts,  like  those  of  the  Highlands,  Dissent  had 
hardly  been  able  to  obtain  a  footing.  Now  the  claim  of  the 
Free  Church  to  be  the  true  National  Church  of  Scotland  made 
it  necessary  to  supply  ordinances  to  her  adherents  all  over  the 
country,  and  nowhere  more  than  in  those  Highland  districts  into 
wliich  Dissent  had  hitherto  been  unable  to  penetrate. 

It  was  to  meet  the  demands  of  such  an  undertaking  that  the 
Sustentation  Fund  was  instituted — a  bold  experiment,  for  which 
there  was  really  no  precedent  anywhere  in  the  history  of  the  Chris- 
tian Chuich,  and  which  deserves  special  attention  as  constituting 
the  peculiar  and  distinctive  feature  of  Free  Church  finance. 
Under  God  it  was  due  to  the  marvellous  sagacity  of  Dr.  Chal- 
mers, from  whose  mind  it  came  forth  at  the  time  of  the  Convo- 


292  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

cation,  elaborated  and  complete,  down  almost  to  its  minutest 
detail. 

The  general  idea  of  the  scheme  was,  that  for  the  purposes  of 
this  fund  the  whole  Free  Church  should  be  combined  into  one  great 
confederacy,  where  each  congregation  should  do  its  part  in 

SUSTAINING  THE  WHOLE,  AND  THE  WHOLE  SHOULD  SUSTAIN  EACH 

congregation.  This  grand  principle  of  share  and  share  alike 
was  first  announced  by  Dr.  Candlish,  in  August,  1841,  and  it  came 
well  from  his  lips  as  minister  of  the  wealthiest  congregation  iu 
the  Church.  No  less  nobly  was  the  same  sentiment  uttered  by 
Dr.  Chalmers :  "  It  is  well  that  the  ministers  of  our  most 
remote  and  destitute  localities  should  know  that  they  have  the 
capability  of  the  whole  religious  public  of  Scotland  to  count 
upon  ;  yea,  more,  it  were  one  of  the  most  precious  fruits  of  this 
arrangement,  that  the  very  oldest  of  our  ministers,  those  vener- 
able fathers  who  have  borne  the  burden  and  heat  of  the  day, 
perhaps  unable  to  labour,  yet  unwilling  and  ashamed  to  remain 
in  fellowship  with  a  Church  that  has  bowed  the  knee  to  an 
Erastian  domination — it  were  indeed  a  heartfelt  satisfaction  to 
assure  all  such  that  they  will  not  be  forsaken  by  their  brethren 
at  large,  but  that,  admitted  to  the  highest  place  of  honour  in  the 
Fi'ce  and  unfettered  Church  of  Scotland,  they,  to  the  day  of  their 
death,  will  be  made  to  participate  equally  and  alike  with  them 
in  the  joint-offerings  of  her  children."  * 

Such  was  the  great  principle,  the  corner-stone  on  which  the 
Sustentation  Fund  was  built.  But  it  was  obvious  from  the 
first  that  much  would  depend  on  the  practical  arrangements  by 
which  the  scheme  was  carried  out.  With  marvellous  skill  on 
the  part  of  Dr.  Chalmers,  these  were  elaborated  and  adjusted  so 
as  to  work  in  harmony  with  the  general  principles  of  our  Pres- 
byterian system.  In  every  parish  an  association  was  to  be 
formed,  of  collectors  to  go  the  round  of  the  families  month  by 
month,  or  oftener,  and  to  receive  such  contributions  as  were 
offered.  These  collectors  were  placed  in  connection  with  the 
deacons  and  other  office-bearers  of  each  congregation,  under 
whose  management  the  whole  proceedings  were  to  be  conducted  ; 
and  periodically  the  amount  of  these  contributions  was  to  be 
*  Assembly  Proceedings,  1843,  pp.  157,  168. 


THE  SUSTENTATION  FUND.  293 

remitted  to  the  great  central  treasury  of  the  Church,  out  of  which 
the  ministers  were  each  to  receive  an  equal  dividend. 

If  this  had  been  all,  however,  it  is  obvious  that  an  equal  divi- 
dend would  have  been  the  most  unequal  of  all  arrangements — the 
exj^ense  of  maintaining  the  social  jDosition  of  a  minister  in  certain 
localities  being  so  much  greater  than  in  others. 

Along  with  the  Sustentation  Fund,  therefore,  there  was  con- 
joined another — the  Congregational  Fund — to  enable  the  people 
in  each  parish,  by  collections  or  otherwise,  to  supplement  the 
income  of  their  own  pastor  according  to  their  ability.  By 
means  of  this  twofold  arrangement,  scope  was  given  for  appeal- 
ing to  the  most  powerful  motives,  for  in  contributing  to  the 
General  Sustentation  Fund,  men  would  be  acting  from  the  pure 
and  high  principle  of  looking  not  on  their  own  things  but  on 
the  things  of  others — the  generous  feeling  that  they  were  standing 
side  by  side  with  their  poorer  brethren,  in  providing  the  ordin- 
ances of  the  Gospel  throughout  the  most  remote  localities  in  the 
land.  On  the  other  hand,  in  contributing  to  the  Cono;reo;ational 
Fund,  men  were  acting  under  the  motive  to  which  the  Apostle 
appeals — "  Let  him  that  is  taught  in  the  word  communicate  to 
him  that  teacheth,"  &c.  The  home  feeling  of  affectionate  per- 
sonal regard  for  their  own  pastor, — the  satisfaction  of  ministering 
in  carnal  things  to  him  who  was  ministering  to  them  in  things 
spiritual — would  thus  have  free  scope,  and  so  these  two  funds 
were  intended  to  act  as  combined  forces,  each  strengthening  the 
other  in  building  up  the  Church,  and  fostering  the  interests  of 
congregations  in  every  separate  locality. 

Such  was  the  general  idea  of  the  fund  as  announced  before- 
hand. Then  came  the  practical  object,  to  which,  with  charac- 
teristic ardour.  Dr.  Chalmers  directed  his  energies,  the  actual 
setting  up  and  putting  in  motion  of  the  machinery  by  which  the 
fund  was  to  be  wrought. 

First,  there  was  a  loud  and  earnest  appeal  for  men  to  give 
their  aid  as  collectors.  "  In  ordinary  times,  and  for  ordinary 
objects,  the  management  of  religious  appeals  is  entrusted  to  a 
few,  and  those  who  are  specially  invited  or  appointed  to  the  task 
of  collection  go  forth  on  the  good  errand,  while  others  do  not 
run  because  they  have  not  been  sent. 


294  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 

"  It  must  be  otlierwise  in  a  movement  like  ours.  For  a  work 
so  large,  and  entitled  to  the  best  exertions  of  all,  we  invite  every 
man  and  every  woman  in  whom  is  found  willingness  of  mind 
and  concern  for  the  glory  of  the  Redeemer's  crown,  to  hold  them- 
selves appointed  to  this  work,  as  if  they  had  been  personally 
selected  and  called  by  name." 

Female  help  was  specially  invited.  "  Whether  we  look  for 
a  greater  enthusiasm  at  the  outset,  or  for  patient,  untiring 
duteous  attention  and  assiduity  afterwards,  for  devotedness  of 
purpose  and  principle,  followed  up  by  diligent  and  ever-doing 
performance,  it  will  be  found  in  greatest  readiness  and  perfec- 
tion among  the  members  of  a  female  agency,  who  still,  as  in  the 
purely  apostolic  times  of  Paul,  are  ready  to  give  themselves  up, 
like  Phoebe  of  old,  as  servants  of  the  Church  ;  or  like  Priscilla, 
to  be  our  helpers  in  Christ  Jesus  ;  or  like  Mary,  to  bestow  much 
labour  on  us ;  or  like  Tryphena  and  Tryphosa,  who  laboured 
in  the  Lord ;  or  Persis,  who  laboured  much  in  the  Lord."  * 

The  spirit  in  which  they  were  to  go  forth  was  laid  down — two 
things  being  specially  insisted  on. 

First,  there  must  be  earnest  prayer.  "  We  trust  there  has 
been  amongst  you  much  fervent  and  special  prayer  for  a  blessing 
on  this  effort,  for  guidance  and  direction  to  all  who  shall  take 
part  in  it,  and  that  you  are  in  a  state  of  preparedness  for  going 
forth  on  your  holy  duty,  seeking  that  in  you  and  by  you  the 
Lord  may  be  glorified." 

Then,  special  care  must  be  taken  to  repress  the  spirit  of  con- 
troversy. "  Cease,  as  we  have  already  counselled  you,  from  all 
debate.  Let  not  your  voice  be  heard  in  the  streets.  In  the 
spirit  of  meekness  let  the  object  at  which  we  aim  be  plainly, 
truly,  firmly,  but  temperately  stated.  .  .  .  Ours  is  a  spiritual 
warfare,  our  weapons  are  spiritual  also.  We  seek  to  establish 
no  domination,  to  wage  warfare  with  none  around  us ;  but  our 
heart  is  set  upon  maintaining  a  testimony  for  God  in  the  land."  -f- 

It  was  in  this  way  that  the  work  of  the  collectors  must  be  done. 
But  it  was  not  enough  to  send  forth  these  appeals  and  instruc- 
tions :  Dr.  Chalmers  resolved  to  go  before,  and  show  the  way. 

*  Memoirs  of  Dr.  Chalmers,  vol.  iv.  p.  557. 
t  Tenth  Communication,  p.  2. 


THE  SUSTENTATION  FUND.  295 

Few  who  heard  him  can  forget  the  scene  when  he  stood 
on  the  platform  of  the  first  Free  Assembly,  and  told  of  the  pro- 
gress which  had  been  made.  "  The  great  obstacle,"  he  said,  "was 
the  idea  that  the  raising  of  so  large  a  sum  was  an  impossibility. 
By  this  thought  some  were  paralysed,  as  it  were,  into  despair. 
It  was  far  easier  practically  to  do  the  thing  than  to  convince  the 
people  that  the  thing  was  practicable.  The  difficulty  lay  not  in 
doing  the  work  when  begun,  but  wholly  in  getting  it  begun  ; 
not  in  the  execution  of  its  process  after  its  commencement,  but 
in  overcoming  the  incredulity  which  stood  as  a  barrier  in  the 
way  of  its  commencement.  ...  In  order  to  overcome  this 
in  my  own  little  sphere,  and  in  a  parish  where  eight-ninths 
of  the  aristocracy  of  the  soil  are  against  us,  I  did  begin  a  little 
association — I  mean  the  parish  of  Morningside.  But  we  re- 
mained for  six  whole  weeks  in  a  state  of  single  blessedness — we 
had  not  a  single  companion,  but  stood  as  a  spectacle  to  be  gazed 
at  with  a  sort  of  gaping  wonder  till  we  actually  felt  our  situa- 
tion painful,  and  felt  as  if  we  stood  on  a  pillory  ;  but  now  that 
we  have  been  followed  by  no  less  than  687  associations,  our 
singularity,  we  begin  to  feel,  sits  rather  gracefully  upon  us." 
He  recounted  the  results  of  a  few  weeks  operations,  and  declared 
— "  Experience  has  already  made  it  palpable,  and  is  making  it 
more  and  more  so  every  day,  that  these  associations  will  prove 
the  sheet-anchor,  as  it  were,  of  the  financial  prosperity  of  our 
Protesting  Church.  Their  individual  contributions  may  be 
small,  but  the  aggregate  produce  of  them  all  will  come  to  a 
much  mightier  sum  than  you  will  arrive  at  by  casting  up  all  the 
donations  which  the  rich  throw  into  the  treasury." 

And  then,  rising  from  these  details,  he  referred  to  the  grand 
object  of  all  such  efibrts.  "You  will  recollect  that  though  the 
application  of  the  first  portion  of  the  fund  goes  towards — I  will 
not  say  the  support  of  the  ejected  ministers,  but  towards  the 
upholding  of  the  continuance  of  their  services — yet,  after  that 
is  secured,  and  after  the  maximum  has  been  attained,  the  sums 
over  and  above  contributed  will  go,  not  to  the  augmentation  of 
ministerial  income,  but  to  the  augmentation  of  ministerial 
services — not  to  the  increase  of  the  salaries  of  the  ministers,  but 
to  the  increase  of  their  numbers  ;  and  we  shall  not  stop  short, 


296  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

I  trust,  in  our  great  and  glorious  enterprise  till,  in  the  lan- 
guage you  have  already  heard,  the  light  of  the  Gospel  be 
carried  to  every  cottage  door  within  the  limits  of  the  Scottish 
territory.  You  are  familiar  with  the  liberal  and  large-hearted 
aspirations  of  John  Knox,  when  he  talked  of  a  college  for  every 
great  town,  and  a  minister  for  every  thousand  of  the  popula- 
tion. I  will  not  specify  at  present  any  limits  to  our 
ministerial  charges,  but  there  is  an  indefinite  field  of  Christian 
usefulness  before  us,  and  we  must  not  let  down  our  exer- 
tions till  the  optimism  of  our  condition  as  a  Church  is  fully 
realised."  * 

With  these  noble  aspirations  the  scheme  of  the  Sustentation 
Fund  was  launched.  One  essential  feature — referred  to  above 
— was  the  fixing  of  a  maximum  sum,  which  each  minister  should 
receive  as  an  equal  dividend.  If  the  fund  fell  short,  the 
dividend  would  be  proportionally  diminished  to  any  extent ;  if 
the  fund  rose,  the  dividend  should  not  rise  beyond  the  fixed 
sum  agreed  on,  and  then  the  overflow  would  be  applied  to  the 
extension  of  the  Church, 

At  the  meeting  of  the  first  Assembly,  it  was  necessary  to 
consider  what  this  maximum  amount  should  be,  and  on  the 
25th  of  May  the  question  was  taken  up  at  a  private  meeting, 
from  which  reporters  were  excluded.  The  original  idea  which 
Dr.  Chalmers  had  propounded  at  the  Convocation  in  the  pre- 
vious November  was,  to  fix  the  amount  at  £200  a-year.  It 
was  now  pointed  out,  that  if  the  outgoing  ministers  were  to 
receive  this  sum  it  would  greatly  obstruct  the  advancement  of 
the  Church,  by  preventing  the  addition  of  new  ministerial 
charges.  On  the  other  hand,  there  were  some,  chiefly  among 
the  laity,  who  advocated  the  larger  amount  in  consideration  of 
the  sacrifices  to  which  ministers  had  submitted,  and  in  view  of 
the  fact,  that  in  the  great  majority  of  rural  parishes,  the  equal 
dividend  would  constitute  the  whole  living.  The  result,  however, 
was,  that  the  general  interests  of  the  Church  and  of  the  people 
prevailed,  and  the  lower  sum  was  fixed.  One  of  the  most  dis- 
tinguished laymen — Alexander  Thomson,  Esq.  of  Banchory,  a 
member  of  Assembly — refers  to  the  circumstance  in  his  diary, 
*  Assembly  Proceedings,  1843,  pp.  52,  53. 


THE  SUSTENTATION  FUND.  297 

and  bears  his  testimony  to  "  the  noble  conduct  of  the  ministers 
in  taking  £150  rather  than  £200."  * 

In  after-years  the  same  spirit  of  self-denial  was  acted  on. 
At  first  the  understanding  was,  that  the  equal  dividend  thus 
fixed  on  must  be  reached  before  any  extension  should  take  place, 
and  that  only  the  overplus  should  be  employed  in  adding  to 
the  number  of  ministerial  charges.  That,  indeed,  was  the 
meaning  of  the  arrangement.  In  practice,  however,  it  was  at 
once  lost  sight  of.  New  congregations  were  constantly  coming 
in  considerable  number,  asking  a  place  on  the  platform,  certain 
to  add  new  burdens  and  keep  down  the  dividend ;  but  none  were 
so  sure  to  vote  for  their  reception  as  the  ministers  already 
dependent  on  the  proceeds.  For  many  a  day,  although  the  gross 
amount  of  the  fund  was  steadily  rising,  no  approximation  was 
made  to  either  of  the  sums  which  had  been  spoken  of — the  £150 
or  the  £200. 

Tor,  indeed,  the  enterprise  had  at  the  outset  great  difficulties 
to  contend  with.  There  were  many  other  clamant  demands 
pressing  on  the  people  during  those  opening  years,  and  a  still 
greater  obstacle  was  presented  by  the  circumstance  just  referred 
to — the  rapid  multiplication  of  ministerial  charges. 

In  the  course  of  the  first  year  the  amount  raised  for  the 
general  fund  was  £61,000,  but  the  ministers  had  increased  to 
583,  and  the  stipend  to  each  was  only  £105. 

During  the  second  year  the  sum  had  risen  to  £76,180,  but 
the  ministers  were  now  627,  and  the  stipend  was  £122. 

This  was  the  process  which,  for  a  considerable  number  of 
years,  went  steadily  forward.  The  fund  was,  on  the  whole, 
increasing,  but  the  number  of  ministers  increased  also,  and  the 
ministerial  income  continued  long  to  be  far  below  what  the 
Church  desired  to  see. 

There  was,  however,  a  still  more  serious  question — could  even 
this  amount  of  success  be  relied  on  to  continue  in  the  future  ? 
Amid  the  fervour  and  excitement  of  Disruption  times,  men's 
hearts  were  opened,  their  contributions  freely  flowed,  but  as  the 
years  began  to  pass  away,  would  not  these  sources  of  income 
*  Memoir,  p.  288. 


298  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

gradually  dry  up  ?  It  was  no .  secret  that  this  was  what  many 
of  the  adversaries  of  the  Free  Church  confidently  expected,  and 
there  were  not  a  few  even  of  her  warmest  friends  who  were 
unduly  apprehensive. 

In  combating  such  fears,  Dr.  Chalmers  set  himself  from  the 
very  outset  to  proclaim  the  necessity  of  looking  to  "  the  power 
of  littles,"  and  to  the  steady  working  of  associations,  rather  than 
to  the  generous  donations  of  a  few  of  the  Church's  wealthy 
members.  "  To  rest  the  prosperity  of  the  Church  on  powerful 
but  momentary  appeals,  and  not  on  regularly  working  associa- 
tions, were  as  grievously  impolitic  as  to  build  our  calculations 
for  the  agriculture  of  a  country  on  the  brawling  winter  torrents 
which  perform  their  brief  and  noisy  course  in  channels  that  soon 
run  out,  and  are  only  known  to  have  existed  by  the  dry  and 
deserted  beds  they  have  left  behind  them,  instead  of  building 
our  calculations  and  our  hopes  on  those  tiny  but  innumerable 
drops  which  fall  in  universal  and  fertilising  showers  on  the 
thirsty  ground  that  is  beneath  them."  * 

With  this  view,  Dr.  Chalmers,  at  so  early  a  period,  struck  the 
key-note — a  penny  a-week  from  every  family  in  Scotland.  In 
the  hearing  of  the  Convocation,  he  referred  to  the  case  of  a 
clerical  friend  from  the  Island  of  Skye,  to  whom  it  had  seemed 
impossible  that  the  inhabitants  of  a  certain  parish  in  that  island 
could  give  any  assistance  whatever,  and  that  they  must  be 
altogether  helped  from  without  in  keeping  up  the  Gospel 
ministry  amongst  them,  "  When  I  asked  whether  absolutely 
nothing  could  be  looked  for — no,  not  even  at  the  rate  of  a  penny 
a-week  from  each  household,  he  at  once  admitted,  that  if  I  came 
down  to  such  a  nothing,  such  a  bagatelle  as  this,  it  could  be 
easily  afforded.  Now,  it  is  by  just  a  putting  together  of  such 
bagatelles,  that  I  arrive  at  my  conclusion,  and  I  therefore  repeat, 
that  as  far  as  the  means  are  concerned  we  could  obtain,  and  it 
is  the  very  least  and  lowest  computation  we  should  think  of 
making — we  could  obtain,  after  the  loss  of  all  our  endowments, 
the  sum  of  £100,000  in  the  year  for  the  support  of  a  Christian 
ministry  in  Scotland,  without  sensible  encroachment  on  the 
comfort  of  any,  without  as  much  as  the  feeling  of  a  sacrifice."  f 

*  Assembly  Proceedings,  1843,  p.  156. 
f  Memoirs  of  Dr,  Chalmers,  vol.  iv.  Appendix,  p.  555. 


THE  SUSTENTATION  FUND.  299 

In  the  first  General  Assembly  he  returned  to  the  subject. 
The  success  of  the  scheme  would  be  "  the  achievement  of  many 
men,  each  doing  a  small  thing.  We  deal,  it  is  true,  in  the 
magnificent  prediction  of  a  magnificent  result,  but  it  is  the 
result  of  a  summation — the  summation  of  little  efibrts  made 
everywhere,  nowhere  of  a  strength  that  is  gigantic.  .  .  .  We  have 
thousands  of  collectors,  but,  as  far  as  I  know,  riot  one  giant 
among  them  ;  and  hundreds  of  thousands  of  contributors,  among 
whom  we  look  for  no  other  greatness  than  the  moral  great- 
ness wherewith  Christianity  assimilates  the  men  and  women 
of  all  classes  in  society — from  her  who  throws  the  widow's  mite, 
to  him  who  throws  the  costly  gift  into  the  Church's  treasury. 
We  count  on  no  miracles,  save  those  miracles  of  grace  by  which 
God  makes  a  willing  people  in  the  day  of  His  power,  and 
through  the  operation  of  whose  blessed  Spirit  it  is  that  there 
are  so  many  willing  hearts  as  well  as  giving  hands."  * 

Once  more,  at  the  Assembly  of  1844,  he  reverted  to  this 
favourite  theme,  when  dealing  with  some  Highland  ministers 
who  had  been  pleading  the  poverty  of  their  people  as  disabling 
them  from  contributing,  "  I  am  only  sorry,"  he  said,  "  when 
they  were  telling  us  of  the  inability  of  the  people,  that  I  did 
not  put  the  question,  whether  the  'practice  of  snuffing  was  at  all 
prevalent  among  them.  Why,  I  believe  that  I  could  make  out, 
by  the  Excise  returns,  that,  in  the  Island  of  Islay  alone,  some 
£6000  a-year  is  spent  on  tobacco.  The  power  of  littles  is  won- 
derful. I  began  with  pennies,  I  now  come  down  to  pinches, 
and  say  that,  if  we  got  but  a  tenth  of  the  snuff  used  by  High- 
landers— every  tenth  pinch — it  would  enable  us  to  support  our 
whole  ecclesiastical  system  in  the  Highlands.  It  is  astonishing 
the  power  of  infinitesimals.  The  mass  of  the  planet  Jupiter  is 
made  up  of  infinitesimals,  and  surely,  after  that,  it  is  in  the  power 
of  infinitesimals  to  make  up  a  stipend  for  the  minister  of  Balla- 
hulish."t 

Such  was  the  truth  which,  in  every  varied  form,  Dr.  Chalmers 
enforced  and  urged.  The  strength  of  the  Sustentatiou  Fund  lay, 
not  in  the  large  contributions  of  the  wealthy,  but  in  the  numerous 

*  Assembly  Proceedings,  1843,  p.  155. 
+  Assembly  Proceedings,  1844,  p.  2J3. 


300  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 

oflFerings  of  those  in  the  middle  and  humbler  ranks  of  life.  It 
was  on  these  that  the  safety  and  stability  of  the  whole  financial 
movement  depended. 

But,  in  connection  with  this,  there  was  another  and  still  more 
important  truth — the  springs  of  that  liberality  would  be  found 
to  lie  in  the  hearts  and  consciences  of  Christian  men.  Dr.  R. 
Buchanan,  into  whose  hands  the  management  of  the  fund  passed, 
and  to  whom  it  was  so  largely  indebted,  has  said :  "  The  dyna- 
mics of  Church  finance  lie  not  in  the  physical  force  which 
silently  backs  the  tax-gatherer's  demand,  but  in  the  region  of 
conscience  alone.  What  the  Church  member  shall  give,  or 
whether  he  shall  give  at  all,  is  a  question  between  himself  and 
God — a  question  in  which  he  may  be  advised  and  exhorted,  but 
on  which  he  may  not,  by  any  human  force,  be  compelled.  He 
to  whom  the  ofi'ering  is  professedly  brought,  will  not  have  it 
given  grudgingly,  or  of  necessity.  It  has,  and  can  have,  no 
acceptance  with  Him,  save  in  so  far  as  it  is  brought,  not  by 
constraint,  but  willingly.  And  hence  the  true  secret  of  abiding 
success  for  any  system  of  Church  finance,  however  wisely  planned, 
will  be  found  chiefly  and  ultimately  to  depend  on  the  Church's 
own  practical  efficiency  in  sustaining  and  cultivating  the  moral 
and  spiritual  life  of  its  members.  Superstition,  indeed,  may 
thrive  and  grow  rich  among  an  ignorant  population ;  but  in  an 
intelligent  community,  true  religion  can  obtain  adequate  supjjort 
for  its  ordinances  and  institutions  only  in  proportion  as  it  is 
accomplishing  its  high  end  in  the  hearts  and  lives  of  men.  If 
this  greatest  of  all  the  factors  out  of  which  the  result  comes  be 
not  taken  into  account,  no  reliable  calculation  as  to  the  efficiency 
of  any  system  of  Church  finance  can  be  made."  * 

The  great  truth  thus  strikingly  expressed  and  confirmed  by  long 
experience  was  jusc  what  Dr.  Chalmers  had  no  less  strikingly 
proclaimed  at  the  outset.  "  The  contributions,"  he  says,  "  will 
rise  or  fall  just  with  the  rise  or  fall  of  personal  Christianity 
among  our  people.  It  is  to  Him  who  toucheth  and  turneth  the 
hearts  of  men  whithersoever  He  will  that  we  look  for  all  our 
present  and  all  our  future  sufficiency.  ...  It  is  not  to  excite- 

*  Rev.  Dr.  Robert  Buchanan.     Finance  of  the  Free  Church,  p.  92. 


THE  SUSTENTATION  FUND. 


301 


raent,  or  novelty,  or  ingenious  devices  for  raising  money,  or  the 
transient  impression  of  oratory  from  a  platform  on  the  feelino-s 
of  an  assembled  multitude,  or  even  to  the  influx  of  liberality 
from  abroad — it  is  not  to  any  or  all  of  these  put  together  that 
we  would  confide  either  the  solid  progress  or  the  ultimate 
settlement  and  completion  of  our  Church  in  these  lands ;  but, 
under  God,  we  hope  for  all  our  prosperity  in  the  calm  and 
steady  growth  of  Christian  and  devoted  principle  in  the  midst 
of  our  congregations.  In  other  words,  our  immediate  or — so 
palpable  is  it,  that  we  had  almost  said — our  whole  dependence 
for  the  enlargement  of  our  means  is  on  the  visitation  and  descent 
of  God's  own  Spirit  finding  His  way  to  human  consciences,  and 
making  them  alive  to  the  urgencies  and  the  claims  of  our  great 
Home  Mission,  and  to  the  sacred  obligation,  not  of  supporting 
our  present  ministrations  alone,  but  of  extending  and  carryin^^ 
them  forward  among  the  perishing  thousands  of  Scotland.  This 
is  alone  the  perennial  fountain  on  which  we  reckon  for  all  our 
abundance,  which  will  only  yield  an  overflow  if  fed  by  supplies 
of  living  water  from  the  upper  sanctuary — those  supplies  which 
are  withheld  from  the  vain  and  boastful  confidence  of  man,  and 
not  given  but  to  his  humble  aud  believing  prayers."  * 

Such  were  the  views  with  which  the  Fund  was  commenced,  and 
no  sooner  were  they  fairly  set  before  the  Church,  than  everywhere 
there  was  the  most  generous  and  cordial  response.  Nothing  was 
more  wonderful  during  those  early  years  than  the  way  in  which 
all  ranks,  rich  and  poor,  cast  their  gifts  into  the  treasury. 
The  few  instances  to  which  we  here  refer  must  be  taken 
merely  as  common  examples  of  the  spirit  which  generally 
prevailed  in  the  Church. 

Dr.  Guthrie  writes  from  Edinburgh  :  "  The  people  here, 
not  excepting  the  folks  of  the  Bow  and  Grassmarket,  are  in 
a  very  lively  and  resolute  state.  For  example.  Lord  Medwyn's 
servant  .  .  .  came  over  to  me  last  week  with  £2  for  the 
service  of  the  Church.  I  proposed  that,  instead  of  givino-  it 
away  at  present,  I  would,  with  her  leave,  put  it  in  the  bank, 
when  she  told  me  that  I  might  do  so  if  I  chose,  but,  she  added, 
*  Assembly  Proceedings,  1844,  p.  13S. 


302  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

'  I  am  laying  by  money  at  present  in  the  savings  bank  for  that 
very  purpose.'  Yesterday,  a  Highland  woman,  a  namesake  of 
our  own,  from  the  Braes  of  Lochaber,  a  member  of  my  Church, 
and  a  servant  in  town,  came  with  eight  shillings  for  the  service 
of  the  Church  also,  though  I  learned  by  cross-examination  that 
she  had  her  father  in  the  Highlands  to  support.  ...  I  have  no 
doubt,  from  the  way  that  public  feeling  is  rising  and  running, 
that  our  opponents  will  be  astonished  by-and-by."  * 

A  collector  in  St.  Luke's,  Edinburgh,  now  a  minister  of  the 
Free  Church,  states :  "  One  day  in  my  collecting  rounds  a  ser- 
vant woman  offered  me  a  pound  note  for  the  Sustentation  Fund. 
I  was  rather  unwilling  to  receive  it,  thinking  it  too  much  for  one 
in  her  station.  I  therefore  told  her  as  much,  but  she  pressed  it 
upon  me,  saying,  '  Take  it.  I  believe  it  is  for  Christ  and  His 
cause.'  Trifling  as  this  incident  may  appear,  it  struck  me 
forcibly." 

"  A  lady,  looking  at  her  district,  said,  '  I  fear  I  will  rather 
need  to  give  than  get'  When  her  visits  terminated,  she 
returned,  saying,  '  I  have  not  been  in  a  house  where  I  hav6  not 
got  at  least  a  halfpenny  a-week,  and  the  persons  who  gave  this 
mite  would  have  been  grieved  if  I  had  passed  them  over.'"-}- 

The  value  of  such  gifts  lay  in  the  spirit  of  self-denial  which 
they  evinced.  The  money  thus  given  to  the  cause  of  Christ 
had  not  only  been  hardly  earned,  but  the  gift  implied  the  priva- 
tion, in  many  cases,  of  what  could  ill  be  spared. 

It  must  not,  however,  be  thought  that  there  was  no  self-denial 
among  the  rich.  In  ordinary  circumstances  there  is  not  much 
of  this.  Rich  men,  for  the  most  part,  cast  their  gifts  into  God's 
treasury,  and  continue  to  surround  themselves,  as  before,  with 
the  enjoyments  of  life,  sitting  as  easily  as  ever  in  the  midst  of 
their  comforts.  But  at  the  time  of  the  Disruption  there  was  a 
spirit  of  self-denial  which  went  far  beyond  such  limits. 

A  month  before  the  event,  it  is  stated  in  the  "  Eighth 
Monthly  Communication,"  edited  by  Dr.  Chalmers  :  "  We  know 
that  in  many  instances  measures  of  retrenchment  in  unnecessary 
expenditure  are  going  forward,  that  nothing  may  be  lacking  in 
the  House  of  the  Lord." 

*  Memoir,  vol.  ii.  p.  52.  +  Eighth  Comnumication,  p.  4. 


THE  SUSTENTATION  FUND.  303 

Even  at  the  Convocation  he  had  announced :  **  Let  me  only, 
without  giving  names,  tell  of  four  specimens  which  have  cast  up 
within  these  few  days.  First,  a  thriving  manufacturer,  who 
is  to  stake  £150  a-year  on  the  moment  when  we  are  severed 
from  endowments ;  then  a  gentleman  of  monied  fortune,  who 
undertakes  in  that  event  to  furnish  the  maintenance  of  three 
clergymen  and  their  families  ;  then  a  widow,  who,  from  the  pro- 
ceeds of  her  dowry  and  her  own  little  fortune,  dedicates  £200  to 
the  cause  ;  and  lastly,  a  master  tradesman,  who  will  let  down  his 
establishment  to  that  of  a  journeyman  or  common  mechanic, 
rather  than  that  the  Church,  if  abandoned  by  the  State,  should 
not  be  upheld,  at  least  at  the  present  extent  of  her  efficiency 
and  her  means."  * 

When  the  Disruption  actually  took  place,  such  anticipations 
were  amply  fulfilled.  Mrs.  Coutts,  for  example,  who  had 
recently  succeeded  to  the  liferent  of  a  fortune  of  £30,000,  found 
that  her  means,  "  though  ampler  than  she  had  ever  before  pos- 
sessed, seemed  now  more  limited  than  ever,  owing  to  her  vastly 
more  ample  desires  to  extend  her  Christian  benevolence.  Being 
under  the  necessity,  for  the  sake  of  her  health,  of  changing  her 
x-esidence,  she  continued  almost  to  grudge  herself  the  small  addi- 
tional expense,  "when  she  thought  of  the  hardships  and  sufierings 
ancomplainingly  borne  by  a  large  number  of  the  ministers  of 
ihe  Free  Church."  f 

In  Edinburgh  society  at  the  time,  one  heard  on  all  sides  of 
families  whose  style  of  living  had  been  changed.  Things  of  the 
kind  could  not  be  concealed.  There  were  houses  in  which  a 
footman  was  no  longer  kept,|  some  who  resided  in  the  country 
drove  a  single  horse  instead  of  two,§  in  other  cases  the  carriage 
was  given  up.||  One  well-known  member  of  St.  George's  con- 
gregation sold  her  house  in  a  fashionable  street,  and  retired  to 
a  small  residence  in  what  was  then  the  farthest  boundary  of  the 
city  to  the  west,  exposing  herself  to  the  good-humoured  banter 

of  Lord  Cockburn  :  "  Miss  ,  what  is  this  I  hear  !     Is  it 

true  that  you  have  sold  that  fine  house  and  gone  to  live  some- 
where about  half-way  to  Glasgow  ?" 

"Two  ladies  of  my  own  acquaintance,"  says  Dr.  Chalmers, 

*  Memoirs,  vol.  iv.  p.  553.  t  Misses  Mure,  Warriston. 

+  Memoir,  p.  411.  §  Captain  Shepherd,  Kirkville. 

II  Mrs.  Lee,  of  Rothesay. 


304  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

"the  descendants  of  a  noble  family,  have  quitted  their  commo- 
dious and  elegant  house  in  the  country,  and  come  to  reside  in 
Edinburgh  for  the  purpose  of  being  enabled  to  devote  a  larger 
sum  to  the  support  of  the  Free  Church  of  Scotland.  Another 
lady  called  on  me  to  consult  me  in  regard  to  an  income  of  £200 
a-year,  and  the  amount  which  she  ought  to  spend  of  it,  and  she 
offered  to  board  herself  with,  and  give  her  whole  income  to,  the 
family  of  one  of  the  ejected  ministers."  * 

These  examples  will  show  the  spirit  which  prevailed.  There 
came,  indeed,  to  be  a  strange  kind  of  ingenuity  among  all 
ranks,  in  devising  expedients  by  which  they  might  be  enabled  to 
increase  their  contributions,  as  if  to  show  that  where  there  is  a 
will  there  is  a  way. 

"  We  know  of  one  instance  of  a  merchant  in  the  West  of 
Scotland,  who  has  set  apart  a  portion  of  his  capital  with  which 
to  trade  on  behalf  of  the  Free  Church.  All  that  that  portion  of 
his  capital  realises  he  intends  to  cast  into  the  General  Sustenta- 
tion  Fund."-}- 

Captain  Shepherd,  of  Kirkville,  Aberdeenshire,  recommended 
that  in  all  families  in  the  Free  Church,  every  child  should  be 
"  entered  as  a  member  of  the  association  as  soon  as  it  was  entered 
on  the  baptismal  register.  That  was  the  plan  he  had  adopted, 
and  he  hoped  his  brethren  in  the  eldership  especially  would 
adopt  it  also.":}: 

In  the  family  of  a  baronet,  well  known  in  the  religious 
world,  the  children  took  their  own  way  of  contributing,  giving 
up  the  use  of  sugar,  that  the  cost  of  it  might  be  added  to  the 
Sustentation  Fund. 

Sometimes  the  matter  took  rather  amusing  forms.  In  the 
Island  of  Arran,  there  was  a  well-known  lady,  who,  at  the  time 
of  the  Disruption,  resided  with  her  father  and  brother,  both 
decided  .supporters  of  the  Establishment.  She  was  equally  de- 
cided in  favour  of  the  Free  Church,  and  having  no  money  of 
her  own,  she  resolved,  as  the  only  thing  she  could  do,  to  give  up 
her  snuff,  and  pay  what  it  cost  to  the  Sustentation  Fund.     Even 

*  Sixth  Communication,  p.  1. 

t  Monthly  Statement,  March,  1844,  p.  3. 

t  Assembly  Proceedings,  1846,  p.  100. 


THE  SUSTENTATION  FUND.  305 

in  the  best  of  people,  however,  human  nature  will  assert  itself, 
and  the  privation  had,  unfortunately,  such  an  effect  on  her 
temper,  that  her  father  and  brother  besought  her  to  resume  her 
snuff,  and  they  would  most  gladly  pay  the  equivalent  into  the 
fund.  After  the  death  of  her  relatives,  she  had  considerable 
means.  "The  wortliy  and  pious  lady,  for  such  she  was,  is  now 
where  no  such  acts  of  self-denial  are  required  ! "  * 

"  A  poor  man  gave  sixpence  to  the  collector  of  his  district, 
who  said  to  bim,  '  This  is  too  much,  as  I  am  going  to  come  back.' 
The  man  thought  for  a  moment,  and  his  face  brightened.  '  I 
have  it,'  said  he ;  so,  taking  back  the  sixpence,  he  gave  twopence, 
saying,  '  You  shall  get  this  every  week.'  '  But  is  not  this  still 
too  much  ? '  said  the  conscientious  collector.  '  No,'  said  the 
Christian  contributor  ;  '  I  have  been  giving  twopence  a- week  to 
the  barber  for  shaving  me,  and  now  I'll  shave  myself  "  -f- 

Stories  of  this  kind  may  seem  trivial,  but  none  can  fail  to 
recognise  the  spirit  of  self-sacrificing  earnestness  which 
prompted  such  gifts. 

"  A  young  woman,  who  maintains  herself  by  sewing  in 
families,  gave  £1,  and  said  that  as  long  as  she  could  thread  a 
needle  she  would  contribute  this  sum."  | 

In  a  parish  near  the  southern  borders  of  Scotland,  there 
was  a  poor  widow,  who  had  two  children  to  support,  and  to  do 
this  mainly  by  her  own  industry,  as  only  the  merest  pittance 
was  allowed  her  by  the  heritors.  Tiie  third  week  after  the  col- 
lections began  she  called  on  the  collector,  who  had  previously 
passed  her  door,  and  said,  "  Why  did  you  not  come  to  me  ?  " 
*'  I  thought  you  so  poor,  we  had  more  need  to  collect  for  than  to 
take  from  you."  "  It  is  the  first  time,  though,  that  my  Master 
ever  made  such  a  demand  on  me,  and  He  must  not  be  gainsaid, 
nor  me  denied  the  pleasure  of  doing  any  little  I  can  for  Him. 
There  are  my  three  weeks'  contributions — we'll  trust  Him  for 
the  time  coming." 

It  was  while  this  spirit  prevailed  among  all  classes  of  adher- 
ents that  the  Sustentation  Fund  was  commenced,  and  it  was 
left  for  the  collectors  to  sustain  and  foster  it  while  gathering  iu 

*  Coiiimuuiuiited  by  Rev.  D.  Liuidsboiougli,  Kiliii;u-uock. 
+  Ei;,'lith  Communication,  ]>.  4.  1  Ibid. 

X 


306  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 

the  fruits.  They  must  be  prepared,  however,  as  Dr.  Chalmers 
warned  them,  to  encounter  difficulties.  Eeferring  to  his  own 
particular  parish  at  Morningside,  Edinburgh — "  We  began 
operations,"  he  says,  "  amidst  a  perfect  storm  of  opposition  from 
the  higher  ranks.  ...  I  was  not  previously  aware — indeed  I 
had  no  idea  at  all — that  we  should  have  had  to  encounter  such 
a  storm,  but  the  collectors  persevered,  and  we  are  now  receiving 
at  the  rate  of  £6,  14s.  a-week." 

If  opposition  came  in  the  form  of  scornful  reproach,  the  col- 
lectors were  urged  to  bear  in  mind  that  the  fund  was  no  mere 
provision  for  the  ejected  ministers,  but  a  great  Church  exten- 
sion movement,  for  the  benefit  of  the  community  at  large.  "  One 
could  pleaii  and  hold  up  iiis  face  unabashed  for  such  a  design 
m  any  company,  and  before  any  assemblage.  It  may  be  stig- 
matised by  our  enemies  as  a  beagarly  expedition  for  a  beggarly 
purpose.  It  will  be  no  such  thing.  It  will  be  a  high  errand  of 
religious  philanthropy,  an  enlarged  and  liberal  scheme  of  Church 
extension,  carried  forward  by  periodical,  generous,  and  heart-stir- 
ring appeals  in  behalf  of  a  great  object  of  Christian  patriotism."* 

All  this,  however,  did  not  prevent  such  reproaches  overtaking 
the  collectors  in  due  time ;  and  though  few  could  reply  to  them 
in  language  like  that  of  Dr.  Chalmers,  yet  the  common  people, 
in  their  own  homely  way,  could  sometimes  deal  with  the  adver- 
saries effectively  enough.  By  way  of  contrast,  a  single  example 
may  be  given.  "  A  godly,  aged  man,  who  was  a  catechist  in  a 
neighbouring  parish,  being  jeered  by  a  worldly  rich  sheep- 
farmer,  a  Moderate,  saying,  '  You  of  the  Free  Church  are  a  set 
of  beggars,'  referring  to  our  having  few  rich  folk  among  us,  and 
also  to  our  collections.  The  honest  man  replied,  '  Well,  be  it  so  ; 
we  read  that  at  death  the  beggar  went  to  heaven,  but  the  rich 
man  to  hell.'     The  sheep-farmer  said  no  more."  f 

Meanwhile,  amidst  difficulties  on  the  one  hand,  and  encourage- 
ments on  the  other,  the  scheme  was  carried  forward ;  but  it  is 
no  part  of  our  design  to  trace  here  the  history  of  its  progress. 
As  time  went  on,  modifications  were  suggested,  and  to  some 
extent  adopted  ;  yet  to  this  day  the  Sustentation  Fund  pre- 

*  Assemblj'  Proceedings,  1843,  p.  157. 

t  Disr.  Mss.  xx.  p.  10,  Farr,  Sutheilandshixe. 


THE  SUSTENTATION  FUND.  307 

serves  its  original  character,  and  moves  along  the  lines  whicb 
were  at  first  laid  down.  Without  going  into  details,  the  general 
results  may  be  briefly  stated  : — 

During  the  first  ten  years,  the  average  annual  income  was  £85,121 

second     „  „  „  108,312 

third       „  „  „  128.299 

For  the  three  years  since  completed,  the  average  is'   .    160,745 

The  sujDplements  given  by  congregations  have  gone  on  in- 
creasing at  a  similar  ratio. 

It  should  be  added  that  there  is  a  surplus  Sustentation  Fund, 
out  of  which  a  very  considerable  proportion  of  the  ministers 
have  had  their  allowances  largely  augmented. 

The  number  of  ordained  ministers,  which  at  the  Disruption 
was  470,  is  now  upwards  of  1000. 

Such  figures  may  give  some  idea  of  the  progress  of  the  fund, 
and  of  what  it  has  done  for  that  Church-extension  movement 
of  which  Dr.  Chalmers  was  the  recognised  leader  and  head.  Its 
real  value,  however,  is  not  to  be  measured  by  statistical  tables. 

It  is  the  Sustentation  Fund  which  has  enal)led  the  Church  to 
supply  religious  ordinances  in  many  a  Highland  and  Lowland 
parish  where  the  poverty  of  the  people  Avould  have  made  it 
difficult,  if  not  impossible,  to  maintain  a  Gospel  ministry. 

It  is  the  Sustentation  Fund  which  has  enabled  the  Church  to 
plant  amidst  the  wynds  and  closes  of  our  large  cities  so  many 
of  those  ministerial  charges  which  have  been  crowned  with 
signal  success  in  carrying  the  message  of  mercy  to  the  most 
degraded  portions  of  the  population. 

Results  such  as  these  might  well  be  enough  to  recom- 
mend the  system.  But  there  are  other  advantages  which 
should  not  be  overlooked.  It  has  consolidated  the  Church, 
drawing  closer  the  bonds  of  brotherhood,  making  each  minister 
feel  that,  however  remote  or  obscure  the  locality  in  which  he 
labours,  he  is  not  only  the  minister  of  his  own  congregation, 
but  a  minister  of  the  whole  Free  Church  which  he  represents, 
and  in  which  all  his  brethren  are  identified  with  him,  sustainins 
and  strengthening  his  hands. 

And  added  to  this,  there  were  indirect  benefits,  of  no  small 
importance,  among  the  people.      The  Sustentation  Fund  has 


308  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

drawn  into  closer  fellowship  the  different  ranks  of  society,  and 
fostered  Christian  intercourse  among  the  members  of  the  same 
congregation.  "  More  than  once,"  in  St.  David's,  Glasgow,  for 
example,  "  the  remark  has  been  made  to  collectors  as  they  went 
their  rounds,  '  Is  it  not  strange  that  money,  which  is  so  often 
the  source  of  division  among  friends,  should  prove  among  us  a 
bond  of  love  and  union.'"*  This  had  been  fully  anticipated. 
"  You  will  be  delighted,"  said  Dr.  Chalmers,  "  with  the  dis- 
coveries of  kindly  feeling  you  will  meet  with  in  the  most 
wretched  districts.  ...  I  have  always  felt  that  if  the  people 
were  rightly  addressed,  there  would  be  a  response  from  them  of 
which  we  have  no  imagination.  .  .  .  The  thing  that  delights 
me  in  the  working  of  this  system  is,  that  it  brings  the  various 
classes  of  the  community  into  more  near  converse  and  com- 
panionship with  each  other,  and  with  those  above  them,  and 
calls  forth  the  same  sympathies,  the  same  neighbour-like  feel- 
ings, the  same  play  of  kind  and  generous  affections."  -|- 

In  view  of  all  this,  the  Free  Church  has  surely  good  reason 
to  give  thanks  for  the  institution  of  this  great  central  Sustenta- 
tion  Fund ;  and  still  more  for  the  fact  that,  after  the  lapse  of 
thirty  years,  it  not  only  holds  its  ground,  but  gives  increasing 
indications  of  stability  and  success. 

*  Disr.  Mss.  i.  j^).  7.  t  Sixth  Commuuication,  p.  i. 


TiiE  SCHOOLS.  309 


XXV.  The  Schools. 

One  thing  done  by  the  Free  Church  at  the  time  of  the  Disruption 
must  now  be  admitted  to  have  conferred  signal  benefits  on  the 
people  of  Scotland — the  setting  up  of  her  elementary  schools. 
In  this,  however,  as  in  various  other  parts  of  her  work,  her 
course  was  decided  by  the  conduct  of  others  rather  than  by  any 
preconceived  purpose  of  her  own.  The  circumstances  in  which 
she  was  placed  compelled  her  to  do  what  she  did. 

The  way,  indeed,  had  been  well  prepared.  The  men  of  the 
Disruption  were  strongly  attached  to  the  cause  of  scriptural 
education.  All  along,  the  Scottish  Church  has  been  the  great 
promoter  and  guardian  of  the  education  of  the  people.  Under 
Knox  and  Melville  she  fought  against  the  selfishness  of  the 
Court  on  behalf  of  the  parochial  schools.  The  battle  was  long 
and  hard  ;  and  when  the  real  history  of  Scottish  education  comes 
to  be  written,  it  will  be  found  that  in  many  districts  Acts  of 
Parliament  were  of  little  weight  with  the  heritors,  and  it  was 
only  in  the  face  of  their  opposition  or  neglect  that  the  estab- 
lishment of  schools  was  carried  out  by  the  parochial  clergy. 
In  more  recent  times,  great  efforts  had  been  made  to  increase 
the  means  of  instruction,  Dr.  Welsh,  in  Edinburgh,  and  Mr. 
Stow,  in  Glasgow,  being  especially  conspicuous  for  the  part 
which  they  took  in  setting  up  the  Normal  schools.  In  a 
similar  way,  many  of  the  outgoing  ministers  had,  at  great 
trouble  and  expense,  engaged  in  the  work  of  education,  attach- 
ing to  the  Establishment  the  schools  which  they  had  erected ; 
and  what  is  said  of  Mr.  Andrew  Gray,  of  Perth,  applies  to  many 
of  his  brethren  :  "  Of  all  the  losses  he  had  to  sustain,  what  he 
felt  perhaps  most  keenly  was  the  loss  of  his  schools.  They 
might  well  be  called  his  schools  " — their  erection  beinfr  due  to  his 


310  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISKUPTION. 

untiring  energy  and  zeal,  aided  by  a  noble  coadjutor,  "his  warm 
friend,  Mr.  Stewart  Imrie,  one  of  the  most  generous  and  large- 
hearted  supporters  of  every  good  cause  that  Perth  ever  num- 
bered among  her  citizens."  These  schools  had  to  be  let  go  out 
of  his  hands  in  1813.* 

Even  if  nothing  had  occurred  to  decide  the  course  of  the 
Church,  there  were  strong  reasons  why  such  zealous  educationists 
should  have  continued  their  efforts  after  the  Disruption  as 
they  had  done  before.  The  importance  of  religious  education — 
the  training  of  the  young  for  Christ — was  still  as  great.  It 
was  still  as  essential  a  part  of  Home-Mission  work,  to  be 
fostered  and  cherished  alongside  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel. 

Added  to  this,  there  was  a  special  inducement  which  might 
well  have  weighed  with  every  patriotic  Scotsman — the  manifest 
deficiency  in  the  amount  of  education  then  existing  in  the 
country.  The  parish  schools  had  been  stereotyped  for  gener- 
ations, while  the  population  had  increased  twice  or  threefold. 
In  1834  it  was  found,  as  the  result  of  careful  inquiry,  that 
Scotland,  as  compared  with  other  countries,  stood  low  in  the 
scale  of  school  attendance.  At  the  time  when  the  Free  Church 
Education  Scheme  was  set  up  there  were  good  grounds  for 
believing  that  more  than  200,000  Scottish  children,  who  ought 
to  have  been  at  school,  were  growing  up  without  the  reality, 
and  most  of  them  without  the  semblance  of  education. 

All  this,  however,  would  probably  have  failed  to  move  the 
Church.  Her  hands,  it  might  well  have  seemed,  were  already 
only  too  full  of  work  that  was  indispensable — building  churches, 
planting  congregations,  and  sustaining  ministers  and  mission- 
aries. Whatever  individual  ministers  might  have  thought,  the 
Church  as  a  whole  would  probably  have  been  inclined  to  leave 
the  question  as  to  education  in  abeyance  for  the  time. 

But  the  conduct  of  the  Establishment  and  its  friends  decided 
the  matter.     There  was  no  alternative. 

The  first  hint  of  the  new  movement  came  from  Dr.  Chalmers 
at  Tanfield,  two  days  after  the  Disruption  ;  and  his  statement 
deserves  attention,  as  explaining  how  the  education  scheme 
of   the  Free   Clmrch   took  its  rise.      "  I  am  aware,   and  you 

*  Memoir  of  Rev.  A.  Gray,  by  Pr.  Caiidlish,  p.  Ixvi, 


THE  SCHOOLS.  311 

may  have  heard  of  some  instances  in  which,  not  parish 
teachers  [these  required  more  time],  but  private  teachers,  most 
efficient  teachers  besides,  have  been  dismissed  from  their  em- 
ployment, and  turned  adrift  with  their  families  on  the  wide 
world,  for  no  other  reason  than  that  they  approve  of  our  prin- 
ciples. Such  cases,  I  think,  fiiirly  come  within  our  cognisance, 
and  it  is  our  duty  to  provide  for  them.  We  can  get  teaching 
for  schoolmasters."  * 

This  was  followed,  three  days  afterwards,  by  the  statement  of 
Dr.  Welsh.  "  Schools  to  a  certain  extent  must  be  opened  to 
afford  a  suitable  sphere  of  occupation  for  parochial,  and  still 
more  for  private  teachers  of  schools,  who  are  threatened  with 
deprivation  of  their  present  office  on  account  of  their  opinions 
upon  the  Church  question.  Such  individuals  should  be  invited 
instantly  to  give  in  their  names  to  the  Church,  and  provision 
should  at  once  be  made  for  their  employment.  Instances  of 
tyranny,  in  some  cases  unmanly,  and  in  all  unworthy,  threats  of 
expulsion  from  their  situations,  of  withdrawing  small  endow- 
ments, of  taking  away  scholars  supported  by  donations,  have 
been  brought  under  the  notice  of  the  Committee.  They  are  the 
more  deserving  of  attention  on  this  account,  that  we  have  not 
only  the  case  of  cruelly  injured  teachers,  but  still  more,  perhaps, 
of  the  children  who  are  to  be  put  into  different  hands."  -f- 

It  may  be  right  to  give  some  examples,  showing  how  well 
founded  such  statements  were.  At  Fairlie,  near  Largs,  it  is 
said  :  "  The  schoolhouse,  which  was  claimed  and  taken  posses- 
sion of  by  Lord  Glasgow  on  the  feasible  ground  of  the  want  of 
a  lease,  was  built  at  the  entire  expense  of  Mr.  Tennent,  of 
Wellpark,  and  the  late  Mr.  Parker  [both  members  of  the  Free 
Chui'ch],  at  a  cost  of  little  less  than  £200,  with  the  exception 
of  some  unwrought  wood  from  the  Kelburn  estate."  Mr. 
Pinkerton,  the  teacher,  had  joined  the  Free  Church,  and  was  at 
once  warned  to  quit  his  schoolhouse  and  dwelling,  "  by  Satur- 
day first" — i.e.,  in  five  days.  But  he  had  a  written  agreement 
as  teacher,  requiring  six  months'  warning  before  his  dismissal, 
and  as  he  paid  a  nominal  rent  for  his  dwelling-house,  his  lord- 
ship found  that  this  order  could  not  be  carried  into  execution. 
*  Assembly  Proceedings,  1843,  p.  54.  t  Ibid.  p.  125. 


312  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION, 

Accordingly,  he  gave  his  consent — with  what  grace  the  reader 
may  judge — to  the  school  continuing  "  under  the  charge  of  Mr. 
Pinkerton,  the  present  teacher,  for  the  next  six  months,  and 
subject  as  hitherto  to  the  direction  of  Mr.  Tennant."  "  I  did  so," 
he  says,  "  as  a  matter  of  necessity,  after  seeing  the  agreement 
with  Mr.  Pinkerton,  which  entitles  him  to  six  months'  notice  of  an 
intention  of  removing  him,  and  requires  him  to  give  three  months' 
notice  of  a  wish  to  retire.  If  no  such  agreement  had  existed,  I 
sliould  have  proceeded  immediately  to  appoint  another  school- 
master," * 

The  Duke  of  Sutherland  was  equally  decided.  "  My  parish," 
said  Mr.  Garment,  of  Rosskeen,  "  is  a  very  extensive  one,  and  I 
got  erected  in  it  two  schools,  one  of  which  was  put  up  chiefly 
at  my  own  expense.  Last  year  [1844]  a  summons  of  removal 
was  served  by  the  Duke  of  Sutherland  to  the  schoolmaster,  and 
another  schoolmaster  put  into  the  school,  erected  principally  by 
my  money." -f- 

In  this  way  the  lay  friends  of  the  Establisliment  signalised 
their  zeal ;  but  the  ministers  were  not  less  energetic.  Every 
teacher  adhering  to  the  Free  Church  who  could  by  any  means 
be  reached  was  relentlessly  assailed.  In  the  parish  of  Camp- 
beltown, for  example,  the  educational  staff  was  composed  of 
nineteen  male  and  female  teachers,  of  public  and  private  schools. 
"  The  process  of  ejection  on  the  part  of  the  Establishment  of  all 
the  teachers  who  were  under  their  control  in  any  respect,  and 
of  some  who  were  presumed  to  be  under  their  jurisdiction,  has 
been  unsparingly  executed.  Nevertheless,  this  ruthless  crusade 
against  the  faithful  teachers  has  certainly  not  increased,  either 
morally  or  physically,  its  shattered  ranks."  J 

And  as  at  Campbeltown,  so  elsewhere  in  Scotland,  no  mercj 
was  shown.  Seventy-seven  of  those  who  held  parish  schools, 
sixty  Assembly-school  teachers,  and  seventy-five  belonging  to  the 
Society  for  Propagating  Christian  Knowledge,  were  expelled  for 
no  other  reason  than  holding  Free  Church  principles.  Among 
others,  the  staff  of  the  two  Normal  Schools  in  Edinburgh  and 
Glasgow    were   ejected — the    rectors,    teachers,   students,   and 

*  Discourse,  &c.,  by  the  Rev.  J.  Gemmel,  1844.     Appendix, 
f  Assembly  Proceedings,  1845,  p.  77.  J   Witness,  ist  March,  1845. 


THE  SCHOOLS.  313 

pupils  going  over  en  masse.  When  the  General  Assembly  met, 
at  Glasgow  it  was  reported  that  196  teachers  of  private  schools 
had  been  cast  out.  In  various  parts  of  the  country,  indigna- 
tion meetings,  as  they  were  called,  were  held,  to  protest  against 
this  treatment  of  men  whom  all  classes  of  the  community 
regarded  with  respect.  But  the  ministers  of  the  Establishment 
were  remorseless,  and  the  work  of  expulsion  went  bravely  for- 
ward till  nearly  400  of  the  best  teachers  in  Scotland  were 
sacrificed.  And  this  was  done  by  those  who  all  the  time  were 
crying  aloud  in  the  ears  of  the  country,  that  there  was  no 
diflference  between  the  two  Churches  ! 

Teachers  thus  cast  out  could  not  be  treated  with  neglect  by  the 
Church  to  which  they  adhered.  The  Free  Church  was  com- 
pelled, by  the  Establishment  itself,  to  find  employment  for  these 
men,  and  so  to  set  up  that  Educational  Scheme,  the  power  of 
which  was  soon  to  be  felt  in  the  remotest  corners  of  the  land. 

Assuredly  it  was  in  no  half-hearted  way  that  the  cause  was  pro- 
secuted. Mr.  Lewis,  of  Leith,  five  months  after  the  Disruption, 
gave  in  a  report  to  the  Glasgow  Assembly,  in  which  he  paid  a 
high  tribute  to  those  who  had  made  the  sacrifice.  "  We 
cannot  close  our  report  without  rendering  our  humble  passing 
tribute  of  admiration  to  the  men  who  have  so  nobly  witnessed 
for  the  truth,  in  the  certain  prospect  of  being  thrown  on  the 
wide  world  for  a  provision  for  themselves  and  families.  We 
speak  not  to  depreciate  the  testimony  borne  by  our  fathers  and 
brethren  of  this  Assembly,  or  that  which  has  so  recently  given 
new  occasion  for  thanksgiving  and  many  prayers — the  testimony 
from  the  banks  of  the  Ganges ;  but,  faithful  as  these  have  been, 
we  can  discover  an  element  that  gives  even  a  purer  character  to 
that  lifted  up  by  the  teachers  of  Scotland,  in  their  comparatively 
more  obscure  and  humble  walk  of  life.  There  was  no  visible 
necessity  laid  upon  them  as  upon  us  to  take  up  a  self-denied 
testimony.  They  were  not  publicly  committed.  Their  refusal 
of  the  testimony  would  not  have  been  dishonour  and  apostasy. 
They  had  few  or  none  of  those  advantages  of  mutual  conference 
by  which  one  man  strengthens  the  heart  of  another,  and  which 
we  so  largely  enjoyed.  It  was  a  question  resolved  between  God 
and  theii'  own  consciences,  decided  by  each  man  apart  in  tho 


314  ANNATES  OF  TEE  DISRUPTION. 

communiugs  of  his  heart  with  the  Word  of  truth,  and  in  pro- 
spect of  his  final  accountability  to  the  God  that  gave  it.  Theirs 
has  been  a  testimony  proceeding  from  faith  unfeigned,  and  from 
a  pure  heart  fervently."  * 

And  what  then — if  these  were  the  feelings  of  the  Church — 
what  was  to  be  done  ?  At  this  point  a  youthful  minister  stepped 
forward  to  take  up  the  cause,  in  a  way  which  even  yet,  as  we 
look  back  on  it,  may  well  be  regarded  with  astonishment. 
Introduced  by  the  convener,  Mr.  Macdonald,  of  Blairgowrie 
(now  Dr.  Macdonald,  of  North  Leith),  ascended  the  platform 
and  laid  his  proposals  before  a  crowded  evening  meeting  of  the 
Assembly.  His  idea  was  to  go  forth  immediately  and  raise 
£50,000  for  building  500  schools.  It  should  be  remembered 
that  men  at  the  time  were  laboriously  striving  to  raise  funds  for 
church  building,  and  the  sustentation  of  the  ministry.  Every 
nerve,  as  it  seemed,  had  already  been  strained  to  the  uttermost, 
and  it  is  not  surprising  that  when  men  heard  Mr.  Macdonald's 
announcement,  they,  in  the  first  instance,  listened  with  wonder. 
But  he  had  his  plan  ready,  and  with  the  utmost  earnestness,  it 
was  laid  before  the  House.  He  would  himself  go  forth  over  all 
Scotland,  and  hoped  to  find  subscribers  enough  to  fill  up  the 
following  scale  of  contributions  : — 

"  Scheme  for  raising  £50,000  to  aid  in  the  erection  of  500 
schools  for  the  Pree  Church  of  Scotland.  Each  school  to  be 
aided  to  the  extent  of  £100. 

Plan  of  Contribution. 

500  persons  giving  Is.  to  each  of  500  schools  yields  £12,500 

being  £25  individual  contributions. 
1000  persons  giving  6d.  to  each  of  500  schools  yields     12,500 

being  £12,  10s.  individual  contributions. 
2000  persons  giving  3d.  to  each  of  500  schools  yields     12,500 

being  £6,  5s.  individual  contributions. 
6000  persons  giving  Id.  to  each  of  500  schools  yields     12,500 

being  £2,  Is.  8d.  individual  contributions. 


9500  persons  giving  at  the  above  rates  yields  .         .    £50,000  " 
*  Assembly  Proceedings,  Glasgow,  184:3,  p.  81. 


THE  SCHOOLS.  315 

Such  were  the  details,  and  as  he  went  on  to  advocate  the 
scheme  with  all  the  ardour  of  youthful  enthusiasm,  the  Assembly 
was  fairly  carried  away.  The  approval  of  the  plan  was  moved 
by  Mr.  Thomson,  of  Banchory,  seconded  by  Dr.  M'Farlan,  of 
Greenock,  agreed  to  by  acclamation,  recommended  to  the  people 
of  the  Free  Church,  and  Mr.  Macdonald  commissioned  to  go 
forth  on  his  chosen  work.  Three  days  afterwards,  Dr.  Welsh 
wrote  in  the  following  terms : — "  Edinburgh,  23rd  October, 
1843. — My  dear  Sir, — The  more  I  reflect  upon  your  plan,  the 
more  admirable  it  appears ;  and  now  that  you  have  got  the 
deliverance  of  the  General  Assembly  in  its  favour,  it  requires 
only  diligence  and  perseverance  in  the  working  to  ensure  success. 
It  could  not  be  in  better  hands  than  yours,  and  I  sincerely  hope 
that  the  members  of  our  Church  and  the  friends  of  education 
generally  to  whom  you  may  apply,  will  do  everything  to  facilitate 
your  labours. — I  am,  with  much  esteem,  my  dear  Sir,  yours 
very  sincerely,  David  Welsh." 

In  this  way  the  fund  was  commenced,  but  the  reader  will  be 
best  pleased  to  have  the  history  of  the  movement  as  given 
in  notes  contributed  by  the  members  of  Dr.  Macdonald's 
family  and  other  friends. 

"  Immediately  after  the  close  of  that  Assembly,  Mr.  Mac- 
donald made  arrangements  for  proceeding,  without  delay,  to 
carry  out  his  scheme.  In  the  earliest  notices  received,  and 
before  the  full  amount  subscribed  in  many  of  the  places  visited 
by  him  could  be  ascertained,  we  find  in  the  east,  for  example, 
that  Edinburgh  subscribed  £7000;  Leith  £1125;  Musselburgh, 
£180  ;  Newhaven,  £300  ;  Orraiston,  £200  ;  Prestonpans,  £283 ; 
Cockpen,  £260  ;  Dirleton,  £300 ;  Haddington,  £530  ;  Gifford, 
£150  ;  Prestonkirk,  £371  ;  while,  farther  south,  such  places  as 
Dunse,  Kelso,  Jedburgh,  and  Hawick  were  visited,  and  sub- 
scribed liberally.  Proceeding  northward,  we  find  St.  Andrews 
subscribing  £600 ;  Cupar-Fife,  £400  ;  Perth,  £1400  ;  Dundee, 
£2700;  Arbroath,  £1100;  Montrose,  £900;  and  following 
Mr.  Macdonald  in  his  laborious  journey,  we  find  him  writing 
from  Aberdeen :  *  My  first  meeting  in  Aberdeen  is  to  be  on 
Monday  evening,  at  seven  o'clock.  On  Wednesday  I  proceed  to 
Peterhead,  to  hold  a  meeting  there.     I  come  back  to  hold  a 


316  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

second  meeting  in  Aberdeen  on  Friday,  and  on  Saturday  I 
journey  northward  to  Inverness,  where,  God  willhig,  I  intend 
preaching  on  the  Sabbath.  Ask  strength  for  body  and  soul. 
Ask  for  the  Spirit's  presence  and  power  in  every  meeting,  and 
ask  for  the  full  completion  of  the  present  work  ;  and  to  all  your 
asking  join  thanksgiving  for  the  innumerable  mercies  we  are 
daily  receiving.  I  am  often  astonished  at  the  kind  and  Christian 
hospitality  I  have  uniformly  received.  I  have  never  yet,  I  think, 
been  one  night  in  an  inn.'  The  above  extract  from  a  letter,  written 
at  a  time  when  very  few  railways  were  available  even  in  the  centre 
of  Scotland,  and  none  at  all  in  the  North,  may  serve  to  indicate 
the  arduous  nature  of  Mr.  Macdonald's  labour  in  ^prosecuting 
his  great  scheme,  and  also  to  reveal  the  secret  of  his  powers  of 
endurance  and  of  his  wonderful  success.  In  every  place  that 
he  visited  he  first  preached,  and  then  expounded  the  plan  by 
which  he  expected  to  raise  so  much  money  for  schools ;  and, 
where  the  district  admitted  of  it,  he  sometimes  preached  and 
explained  his  scheme  at  meetings  held  each  day,  for  five  or  six 
days  in  succession !  Proceeding  to  the  far  North,  we  find 
Inverness  subscribing  £1000  ;  Tain,  £500 ;  Wick,  £775  ; 
Thurso,  £503 ;  and,  in  like  proportion,  such  places  as  Elgin, 
Banfi",  and  Peterhead.  In  the  West,  Glasgow  subscribed  with 
its  usual  munificence,  although  the  writer  is  unable  to  state  the 
amount.  Paisley,  about  £1300 ;  Port-Glasgow,  £400  ;  Dum- 
barton and  neighbourhood,  £600  ;  Rothesay,  £1000  ;  Ayr,  £800. 
Kilmarnock,  Maybole,  Irvine,  Dunoon,  and  such  places,  also 
subscribing  with  corresponding  liberality." 

"  The  correspondent  quoted  at  the  beginning  of  these  notes, 
relative  to  this  scheme,  writes  :  '  Little  did  we  dream,  when  first 
hearino-  from  Mr.  Macdonald  from  Glasgow  detached  accounts 
of  a  scheme  for  providing  schools,  that  it  would  ultimately  grow 
to  such  formidable  dimensions,  and  involve  so  much  personal 
labour  arid  lengthened  absence  from  his  family  and  congregation. 
But  so  it  was ;  nor  do  we  grudge  it,  although  now  we  feel  as  if, 
ill  after-life,  it  liad  told  somewhat  heavily  on  his  constitution. 
It  was  a  good  work,  and  God  was  graciously  pleased  to  mark 
His  a]iproval  of  it,  for  in  no  other  way  can  we  account  for  the 
almost  marvellous  success  that  attended  his  continued  exertions. 


THE  SCHOOLS.  317 

Often  did  we  smile  when,  on  reading  his  letters,  such  passages 
would  occur — '  I  have  had  the  pleasure  of  meeting  with  Mr. 

.     He  is  a  delightful  man.     By  the  by,  he  has  subscribed 

to  my  school  scheme.'  Indeed,  we  began  to  find  that  that  was 
almost  an  infallible  test  of  the  real  worth  of  his  many  friends ! 

'''  He  used  to  tell  us  of  an  amusing  incident  connected  with 
his  visit  to  Manchester.  The  meeting  had  been  all  arranged, 
and  the  night  fixed,  but,  unfortunately,  it  turned  out  wet  and 
stormy,  so  that  it  was  feared  there  would  be  but  a  thin  gathering. 
However,  the  hour  arrived,  and  the  audience  had  taken  their 
seats,  when,  alas  !  the  gas  entirely  failed,  and  all  seemed  doomed 
to  disappointment.  What  was  to  be  done  ?  Light  must  be 
had  ;  so,  making  the  best  of  what  they  could,  candles  were 
brouglit  in.  Two  were  placed  on  each  side  of  the  speaker,  and 
from  the  midst  of  such  illumination  he  proceeded  to  address 
the  meeting.  Dark  and  discouraging  as  was  the  prospect,  you 
may  imagine  his  delight  when,  at  the  close  of  the  meeting,  £500 
was  got.  At  Liverpool  he  had  a  very  large  and  enthusiastic 
meeting,  and  at  the  close  of  it  £1000  was  subscribed. 

"  Thinking  that  he  might  be  able  to  advance  his  scheme  by  a 
visit  to  London,  he  proceeded  thither.  A  few  days  after  his 
arrival  he  found  that  a  large  and  influential  deputation  had  come 
from  Scotland  for  the  purpose  of  interesting  the  people  in  the 
Free  Church  struggle,  and,  if  possible,  securing  pecuniary  help. 
They  were  ther-^fore  by  no  means  greatly  pleased  that  he  should 
come  as  an  interloper  with  his  scheme  while  they  were  advocat- 
ing theirs,  both  by  holding  public  meetings  and  making  private 
appeals.  In  deference  to  them,  therefore,  he  did  nothing,  and 
thus  nearly  a  fortnight  of  his  valuable  time  was  lost,  and  he  felt 
quite  disheartened.  At  length,  however,  he  was  informed  that 
the  deputation  were  to  hold  a  public  meeting  in  Regent  Square 
Church,  and  that  he  being  in  London,  they  would  give  him,  as 
a  personal  favour,  the  last  half-hour  in  which  he  might  plead 
his  own  scheme.  Limited  as  such  an  arrangement  was,  he  was 
thankful  to  get  even  this  brief  opportunity,  and  waited  with  no 
small  impatience  until  the  several  speakers  should  be  done  ;  but 
alas  !  this  consummation  seemed  a  far  way  off.  The  first  gentle- 
man spoke  for  about  an  hour,  the  second  nearly  as  long,  and 


318  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISKUPTION. 

knowing  that  a  London  audience  rarely  stayed  longer  that  ten 
o'clock,  he  sighed  as  a  third  speaker  rose,  and  he  not  the  last  of 
their  number. 

"  The  platform  on  which  they  were  seated  had  been  raised 
very  considerably,  so  that  those  in  the  gallery  might  hear  better, 
■  and  a  kind  of  ladder-stair  at  the  back  gave  access  to  it.  Mr. 
Macdonald,  who  was  sitting  behind,  quietly  rose,  slipped  down 
the  steps,  and  gained  the  vestry.  There  he  earnestly  prayed 
that  God  might  so  influence  the  minds  of  the  speakers  that  they 
might  be  short,  and  that  there  might  yet  be  time  for  his  unfold- 
ing his  scheme.  After  thus  committing  it  to  the  Lord,  he  quite 
unobservedly  resumed  his  seat,  and  you  may  imagine  his  feelings 
when  the  speaker  unexpectedly  closed,  and,  turning  round  to 
him,  said,  'Now,  I  have  just  been  short  for  your  sake  !'  Oh  ! 
the  goodness  of  the  Lord ;  how  wonderfully  He  can  and  does 
answer  prayer  !  The  last  speaker  was  also  brief,  and  Mr. 
Macdonald  was  just  about  to  begin,  wlien  the  assembly  simul- 
taneously arose,  and  began  to  leave  their  seats. 

"  This  was  an  unforeseen  trial ;  but  Mr.  Patrick  Shaw  Stewart, 
M.P.  for  Eenfrewshire,  who  was  in  the  chair,  kindly  came  to 
the  rescue.  Kising  up,  he  said  :  '  I  wish  very  much  that  you 
would  wait  a  little  longer.  There  is  a  young  friend  here  from 
Scotland  with  some  very  ingenious  plan  for  getting  schools, 
and  I  should  like  much  to  hear  him.  Would  you  do  me  the 
favour  of  remaining  a  little  while.'  Thus  appealed  to,  the 
audience  resumed  their  seats ;  and  Mr.  Macdonald,  lifting  up 
his  heart  to  God  for  help,  began  his  tale,  putting  forth  all  his 
powers  to  make  the  best  of  his  short  but  golden  opportunity. 
Facts,  anecdotes,  appeals  were  all  used  to  gain  the  desired  end, 
and  at  the  close,  when  subscription  papers  were  handed  round, 
the  sum  amounted  to  between  £800  and  £1000.  It  was  sub- 
sequently increased  to  £1400.  At  first  the  deputation  were 
not  altogether  pleased  that  the  lion's  share  had  fallen  to  the 
schools,  but  in  the  end  they  heartily  rejoiced  in  the  result." 

"  No  wonder  though,  as  remarked  by  the  writer  of  the  pas- 
sage just  quoted,  the  labour  involved  in  Mr.  Macdonald's 
prosecution  of  his  scheme  had  in  after-life  told  somewhat 
heavily  on  his  constitution.     This  journey  to  England,  and  th^ 


THE  SCHOOLS.  319 

long  and  arduous  journeys  in  Scotland,  accomplished  by  him 
between  October,  1843,  and  May,  1844',  were  fitted  to  try  very 
severely  the  constitution  of  even  so  young  a  man,  as  he  was  at 
this  time,  and  of  a  much  stronger  man  than  he  ever  was. 
Apropos  of  his  youth,  an  amusing  exhibition  of  incredulity 
as  to  his  identity,  owing  to  his  youthful  appearance,  occurred 
on  one  of  his  journeys  in  the  far  North.  Returning  from 
Wick,  he  and  other  two  male  passengers  were  inside  the  stage- 
coach, when  one  of  the  two,  addressing  Mr.  Macdonald, 
remarked :  '  I  understand  that  this  Mr.  Macdonald,  who  is 
raising  so  much  money  for  building  schools,  was  in  Wick  last 
night.  I  wonder  if  he  had  a  good  meeting.'  '  Oh,  yes,'  was 
the  reply,  '  it  was  a  very  good  meeting,  and  upwards  of 
£700  was  subscribed.'  '  That,'  said  the  passenger  who  had 
not  yet  spoken,  '  that  is  Mr.  Macdonald  whom  you  are  now 
speaking  to.'  But  the  inquirer  about  the  preceding  night's 
meeting  was  not  to  be  so  imposed  upon  ;  and  scrutinisingly  sur- 
veying Mr.  Macdonald  from  head  to  foot,  he  exclaimed,  with  a 
leer  of  incredulity,  '  Na,  na  ;  his  faither  might  be  the  man,  but 
that's  no  him.' 

"  As  the  month  of  May  approached,  Mr.  Macdonald  had  made 
such  progress  that  he  felt  certain  of  the  complete  attainment  of 
his  object  before  the  meeting  of  the  General  Assembl}^  Early 
in  May,  1844,  he  wrote  from  Hamilton  as  follows: — 'The 
various  reports  of  what  has  been  done  between  last  May  and 
this  May  will  be  truly  wonderful.  Never,  I  suppose,  in  the 
history  of  the  Church  was  so  much  done  in  one  year — so  many 
churches  built,  so  many  ministers  sustained,  such  large  mis- 
sionary operations  carried  on,  and  such  a  large  sum  subscribed 
for  schools.  The  success,  indeed,  is  so  wonderful  that  scarcely 
any  one,  unless  wilfully  blind,  can  fail  to  see  the  hand  of  God 
in  it  all' 

"At  the  Assembly  which  met  in  Edinburgh  in  1844,  and  on 
the  evening  of  the  28th  of  May,  a  truly  noble  and  astonishino- 
result  was  announced  by  Mr.  Macdonald.  There  were,  it 
appeared,  many  important  places  which  he  had  not  been  able, 
during  the  few  months  since  last  October,  to  visit,  and  some 
reports  having  not  yet  come  in.  he  could  not  state  exactly  what 


320  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

had  been  subscribed ;  but  he  could  certainly  state  that  it  was 
upwards  of  £52,000  !  And  excepting  £3000  subscribed  in 
England,  and  mainly  by  Scotch  Presbyterians,  the  whole  amount 
had  been  subscribed  by  those  very  people  who  had  already  con- 
tributed with  such  unbounded  liberality  for  the  building  of 
churches  and  sustaining  a  Gospel  ministry  both  at  home  and 
abroad.  .  .  . 

"  Dr.  Candlish  said  '  that  he  could  not  but  express  the  feeling 
which  he  entertained  towards  his  friend,  Mr.  Macdonald,  in 
reference  to  the  matter  which  had  that  evening  been  before 
them.  He  has  opened  the  springs  of  faith  in  the  Divine  pro- 
mises among  a  large  class  of  our  people,  and  it  were  inexcusable 
in  us  to  omit  acknowledging  the  good  hand  of  God  in  the 
success  with  which  he  had  begun,  carried  on,  and  completed 
in  faith  this  good  work.'  As  convener  of  another  committee, 
Dr.  Candlish  further  said :  '  We  are  deeply  indebted  to  the 
labours  of  Mr.  Macdonald,  not  only  in  reference  to  the  scheme 
he  has  been  the  instrument  of  promoting,  but  for  the  great  aid 
he  has  given  us  in  preaching  the  Gospel,  and  administering 
ordinances  in  various  parts  of  the  country.  In  the  present 
scarcity  of  ministerial  labourers,  and  in  the  demand  which 
exists  for  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel  wherever  he  has 
arrived,  he  has  not  only  made  his  appeal  to  the  pockets  of 
the  people,  but  has  filled  their  souls  with  the  bread  of  life.' 
'  I  have  thought  it  was  a  providential  thing  that  Mr.  Mac- 
donald was  led  to  devise  such  a  scheme  as  that  which  has 
occupied  his  attention,  seeing  it  has  been  the  cause  of  so  much 
spiritual  good  throughout  those  parts  of  Scotland  that  he  has 
visited.'  .  .  . 

"  The  Moderator,  Dr.  Henry  Grey,  then  returned  thanks  to 
Mr.  Macdonald.  '  The  scheme,'  said  Dr.  Grey,  '  was  indeed 
an  admirable  one — simple  in  its  means,  sublime  in  its  object, 
and  I  congratulate  you  on  your  success.  In  the  other  Chris- 
tian enterprises  of  our  Church  many  heads  have  combined  their 
counsels,  many  hands  have  co-operated,  many  agents  have  been 
employed,  and  the  Church  in  all  its  congregations  has  exerted 
its  efforts.  Your  scheme  originated  with  yourself;  you  have 
been  the  contriver,  the  counseller,  the  agent,  the  accomplisher 


THE  SCHOOLS.  321 

of  it.  No  doubt  you  have  received  hearty  sympathy  and  much 
valuable  help;  but  you  have  won  these  for  yourself,  and  to 
you,  therefore,  our  thanks  are  due.  And  we  have  the  purer 
pleasure  in  giving  them  that  we  know  you  will  unite  with  us  in 
rendering  thanks  supremely  to  Him  from  whom  all  good  flows  ; 
who  taught  you  to  conceive,  and  enabled  you  to  peifoim,  the 
honourable  service  you  have  accomplished.'  The'  Moderator 
concluded  by  requesting  Mr.  Macdonald  to  convey  to  his  flock 
the  thanks  of  the  Assembly  for  the  patience  and  generosity  they 
had  shown  by  so  cheerfully  acquiescing  in  his  long  and  neces- 
sary absence.  .  .  . 

"  One  of  the  most  gratifying  results  of  Mr.  Macdonald's  recent 
visit  to  so  many  parts  of  Scotland  was  the  impressively  interest- 
ing evidence  thereby  afforded  that  the  people  of  Scotland  not 
only  sympathised  with,  and  were  resolved  to  stand  by  and  sup- 
port, ministers  and  teachers  adhering  to  Free  Church  principles, 
and  ejected  from  their  livings  for  conscience'  sake,  but  also 
desired  with  heartfelt  anxiety  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel  to 
themselves  and  a  Christian  education  for  their  young.  Thv'^ 
response  to  Mr.  Macdonald's  appeals,  it  will  be  observed,  was 
alike  hearty  and  liberal,  whether  in  the  north,  the  south,  the 
east,  or  the  west.  He  was  never  allowed  to  lodge  a  single 
night  in  an  inn,  and  at  a  very  early  stage  of  his  labours  he 
observed  with  peculiar  satisfaction  that  at  the  first  meeting  in 
evei^y  place  yet  visited  by  him  the  amount  subscribed  had 
never  been  less  than  £100 ;  and  this  interesting  fact  he  did  not 
fail  to  refer  to  as  a  stimulus  in  places  subsequently  visited,  the 
final  result  being,  that  not  even  in  Shetland  was  less  than  £100 
subscribed  at  the  first  meeting."  * 

This  remarkable  movement,  welcomed  as  it  thus  was,  and 
crowned  with  such  success,  sufficiently  proved  that  the  Church 
was  in  earnest  in  the  work  of  education ;  but  not  less  is  this 
seen  when  we  look  to  the  character  of  the  men  into  whose 
hands  the  management  of  the  scheme  was  entrusted.  At  first 
Mr.  Lewis,  of  Leith  (afterwards  Dr.  Lewis,  of  Kome)  held  the 
convenership.  Then,  for  a  short  time,  it  was  entrusted  to 
*■  Disr.  Mss.  Iv. 

Y 


322  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

Dr.  Cunningham,  and  subsequently,  in  1846,  it  was  put  into 
tlie  hands  of  Dr.  Candlish,  under  whom  the  work  finally  took 
shape.  For  many  years  the  writer  sat  with  him  in  this  com- 
mittee and  its  sub-committees.  There  is  no  need  that  he 
should  say  anything  as  to  the  powerful  influence  of  the 
-Convener,  and  the  rare  administrative  talent  which  was 
brought  to  bear  in  furtherance  of  the  work ;  but  he  may 
be  allowed  to  give  his  testimony  to  the  amount  of  labour 
and  anxious  thought  expended  on  it  by  Dr.  Candlish  to  an 
extent  far  beyond  anything  that  the  Church  in  general  was 
aware  of. 

Under  such  guidance  it  was  not  long  till  the  educational 
movement  began  to  be  rapidly  developed,  giving  proof — if  that 
had  been  needful — of  how  great  the  demand  for  additional 
means  of  instruction  was  in  the  country.  In  May,  1845,  280 
schools  were  already  in  operation,  but  within  two  years  there 
were  513  teachers  on  the  scheme,  and  there  was  also  a  class  of 
schools  which,  though  not  supported  by  the  Committee,  belonged 
really  to  the  Free  Church,  bringing  the  whole  number  up  to  650. 
Of  these,  595  sent  in  returns  in  1847,  showing  an  attendance 
of  more  than  44,000,  and  the  estimate  was  that,  including 
the  whole,  the  number  of  scholars  would  compare  favourably 
with  the  attendance  at  all  the  parochial  schools  of  Scotland. 
"  The  committee  dwell  on  this  result  not  in  a  spirit  of  boasting 
or  exultation,  but  rather  for  the  purpose  of  impressing  on  the 
Free  Church  a  sense  of  her  deep  responsibility  to  God  and  the 
rising  generation.  She  has  a  price  given  into  her  hands  to  buy 
wisdom.  She  has  a  precious  opportunity  in  God's  providence, 
and  the  Lord  is  making  it  manifest  that  the  people  of  the  land 
are  not  slow  to  answer  any  efforts  that  she  may  make.  The 
committee  press  this  consideration — viz.,  that  already  the 
number  of  children  in  attendance  at  the  Free  Church  of 
Scotland's  schools  may  be  regarded  as  equal  in  number  to 
the  attendance  on  the  whole  parochial  schools  of  Scotland 
altogether."  * 

In  regard  to  the  teachers  to  whom  these  schools  were  at  first 
entrusted,  it  must  be  said  that,  as  a  class,  they  were  men  of  no 
*  Assembly  Proceedings,  1847,  p.  126. 


THE  SCHOOLS.  323 

common  eminence  in  their  profession.  Making  full  allowance 
for  individual  cases,  and  speaking  only  of  the  general  result, 
there  were  good  grounds  for  the  statement  made  by  Dr. 
Candlish  in  1847.  "  In  point  of  fact,  when  this  Church  was 
separated  from  the  State  at  the  Disruption,  she  obtained  the 
services,  in  her  educational  department,  of  the  very  elite,  the 
very  flower,  of  all  the  educational  bodies  in  all  broad  Scotland. 
She  got  the  flower  of  the  parochial  teachers,  she  got  the  flower 
of  the  Assembly  teachers,  and  by  an  act  of  infatuation  during 
the  past  year,  the  Establishment  has  again  given  her  the  flower 
of  that  valuable  body  of  men — the  teachers  of  the  Society  for 
Propagating  Christian  Knowledge." 

In  proof  of  this  he  dwelt  on  the  fact  that  they  were  men  who 
had  acted  on  their  own  views  of  Christian  principle.  "  And  if 
you  take  one  with  another,  the  men  of  any  body,  you  will  find 
that  the  men  of  Christian  principle  are,  generally  speaking,  the 
men  of  intellectual  power ;  where  you  have  men  of  a  firm 
principle,  you  will  invariably  find  that  these  are  not  the  men 
of  the  least  intellectual  energy.  We  have  got  the  flower  of  our 
Scottish  teachers,  and  already  the  steps  taken  by  this  Church, 
allow  me  to  say,  have  had  the  effect  of  putting  a  spirit  of  en- 
thusiasm, a  spirit  of  heartiness,  into  your  teachers  that,  as  you 
will  presently  see,  has  stimulated  them  to  high  attainments,  and 
encouraged  them  to  persevere  in  your  service  in  the  face  of  all 
difficulties."  * 

It  is  not  our  purpose  in  these  pages  to  trace  the  history  of 
the  scheme.  One  great  difficulty  which  soon  presented  itself, 
arose  out  of  the  agitation  for  a  national  system  of  education  ; 
and  what  made  the  difficulty  greater  was  the  avowed  preference 
which  the  Church  and  Dr.  Candlish  soon  showed  in  favour  of 
the  movement.  A  feeling  of  uncertainty  thus  began  to  arise 
as  to  when  our  own  scheme  might  be  superseded,  and  in  this 
way  the  hands  of  the  committee  were  greatly  weakened  in 
appealing  to  the  people.  Yet,  in  the  face  of  every  difficulty, 
the  scheme  was  carried  steadily  forward,  with  what  results 
may  be  seen  from  the  following  authoritative  statement, 
drawn  up  and  laid  before  Members  of  Parliament  in  18G9. 
*  Assembly  Proceedings,  p.  12tj. 


324  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

At  the  close  of  twenty-five  years'  work,  this  is  what  could 
be  said : 

"There  are  connected  with  and  supported  by  the  Free 
Church  598  schools  (including  two  normal  schools),  with  633 
teachers  and  64,115  scholars.  The  results  of  the  examination 
of  schools  receiving  grants  from  the  Privy  Council  by  Her 
Majesty's  inspectors,  according  to  the  revised  code,  show  that 
the  Free  Church  schools  stand  at  the  top  of  the  elementary 
schools  both  in  Scotland  and  England. 

"  The  school  buildings  belonging  to  the  Free  Church  have  been 
erected  at  a  cost  of  £220,000.  Of  this  sum  the  Committee  of 
Privy  Council  contributed  £35,000,  and  the  remainder,  £185,000, 
has  been  raised  by  subscriptions  and  grants  from  the  Free  Church 
School  Buildino;  Fund.  The  most  of  the  buildings  have  been 
kept  in  good  repair,  at  considerable  expense  to  the  congregations 
with  which  they  are  connected,  and  their  present  estimated 
value  is  about  £180,000. 

"  The  annual  payments  made  to  teachers  from  the  education 
fund  of  the  Free  Church,  amount  to  £]  0,000  ;  and,  in  addition, 
congregations  spend  in  supplementing  the  salaries  of  teachers 
and  in  charges  connected  with  the  maintenance  of  the  schools, 
£6000  a-year. 

"  The  total  sum  expended  by  the  Free  Church  since 
the  Disruption  for  educational  purposes,  is  not  less  than 
£600,000." 

The  statement  is  brief,  but  it  would  be  difficult  to  say  what 
amount  of  skill,  and  labour,  and  prayer,  and  self-denying  zeal 
were  required  to  achieve  such  results  ;  and  it  would  be  not  less 
difficult  to  measure  the  benefits  conferred  on  hundreds  of  thou- 
sands of  the  youth  of  the  land  who  have  passed  through  these 
schools,  and  are  now  rising  up  and  taking  their  part  in  the  work 
and  responsibilities  of  life. 

Note. — The  attention  of  the  reader  is  directed  to  the 
fact,  that  the  r<ree  Church  schools,  as  tested  by  Govern- 
ment examination,  stood  at  the  head  of  the  elementary 
schools  of  the  country.  There  was  nothing  on  which  the 
Church   was  from  the    first   more   determined   than   to   have 


THE  SCHOOLS.  325 

the  education  which  she  offered  to  the  people  of  the  very- 
highest  quality. 

One  proof  of  this  among  many  which  might  be  given,  is  a 
fact  of  some  interest  in  the  existing  circumstances  of  Scotland 
at  the  present  moment. 

It  is  well  known  that  an  unfiiendly  feeling  towards  Normal 
schools  has  arisen  in  some  quarters,  as  if  they  were  antagonistic 
to  the  universities,  and  were  meant  to  come  between  the  teachers 
and  a  higher  style  of  culture.  If  this  ever  were  so  in  any  quarter, 
it  certainly  never  was  in  the  Normal  schools  connected  with  the 
Free  Church.  A  remarkable  statement  on  the  subject,  made  by 
Dr.  Candlish  just  thirty  years  ago,  on  giving  in  his  first  report 
to  the  Assembly,  deserves  to  be  noticed.  He  was  showing  that 
these  schools  are  really  institutions  for  elevating  and  enlarging 
the  minds  of  the  teachers.  "  I  will  just  say  on  this  point,  that 
the  Committee  are  far  from  desiring  that  your  Normal  schools 
for  teachers  should  ever  take  the  place  of,  or  supersede  atten- 
dance at,  the  ordinary  colleges  or  universities  of  Scotland.  On 
the  contrary,  your  Committee  are  perfectly  prepared  to  recom- 
mend, if  the  House  will  adopt  the  recommendation,  that  it 
should  be  a  condition,  that  any  one  competing  for  your  higher 
rates  of  salary  should  show  that  he  has  been  at  least  one  or 
more  years  in  attendance  at  the  literary  classes  of  the  university. 
But  the  Committee  beg  to  observe  that  attendance  at  the  classes 
of  the  university  has  never  until  now,  under  any  system  in 
Scotland,  been  a  necessary  qualification,  and  we  all  know  that 
the  teachers,  under  the  system  that  prevailed  in  the  parochial 
schools,  have  been  selected,  except  in  some  favoured  districts 
of  the  country,  very  much  without  regard  to  such  qualifications. 
This  I  state,  not  by  any  means  as  if  it  were  not  a  right 
qualification,  or  as  if  it  were  not  one  which  the  Free  Church 
ought  to  insist  upon,  but  rather  to  explain  why  we  have  not 
hitherto  insisted  on  this  qualification  in  the  teachers  of  your 
schools." 

The  view  thus  stated  was,  that  the  Normal  schools  ought  to 
be  a  link  of  connection  with  our  colleges,  so  as  to  confer  on  the 
teaching  profession  the  benefits  of  a  liberal  university  education. 
All  along  this  result  has  to  a  considerable  extent  been  attained, 


326  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 

and  at  the  present  moment  (1877)  more  than  ever  it  is  the  aim 
of  the  Education  Committee  of  the  Free  Church.  The  reader, 
however,  will  not  fail  to  observe  how  decidedly  the  church, 
thirty  years  ago,  was  looking  in  this  direction,  and  in  what 
strong  terms  her  views  were  expressed  by  Dr.  Candlish. 


THE  NEW  COLLEGE.  327 


XXVI.  The  New  College. 

Theee  are  many  in  the  Free  Church  who  must  still  remember 
the  rooms  in  George  Street,  where  the  classes  of  the  New  College 
met  during  the  first  years  of  its  history.  Dr.  Chalmers  and  Dr. 
Welsh  had  resigned  those  professorships  which  they  held  and 
adorned  in  the  University  of  Edinburgh,  their  last  session  in 
connection  with  the  Establishment  having  terminated  a  few 
weeks  before  the  Disruption.  Without  hesitation  it  was  at  once 
resolved  to  open  a  Divinity  Hall  for  the  Free  Church,  and  a 
Committee  was  empowered  to  appoint  professors,  to  engage 
premises,  and  to  have  everything  prepared  for  beginning  at 
the  usual  time  in  November.  There  was,  indeed,  no  time  to  be 
lost  in  bringing  forward  young  men  for  the  ministry.  The 
fields  were  white  to  the  harvest,  the  labourers  were  few,  and  on 
all  sides  the  cry  was  rising,  "  Send  us  ministers."  Accordingly,  at 
the  Glasgow  Assembly,  the  Committee  were  ready  with  their 
report.  Dr.  Chalmers  and  Dr.  Welsh  were  to  be  joined  by  Dr. 
Duncan  as  Professor  of  Hebrew  and  Dr.  Cunningham  in  the 
Chair  of  Church  History,  and  the  Eree  Church  might  well  feel 
thankful,  that  in  such  men  she  had  a  staff  of  professors  whose 
names  were  a  tower  of  strength  in  support  of  the  cause  of  God 
in  the  land. 

Immediately  before  the  close  of  the  Assembly,  Dr.  Candlish 
made  a  memorable  appeal  for  young  men  to  devote  themselves 
to  the  work  of  the  ministry.  "  We  are  to  expect  no  miracle, 
no  baring  of  the  Lord's  arm  in  any  unusual  manner — that  is, 
without  the  use  of  means.  Let  us,  then,  see  what  are  the  sources 
of  the  supply  of  labourers  on  which  we  may  depend.  .  .  .  The 
first  and  chief  of  these  ...  is  the  piety  of  Christian  parents 
and  the  early  devotion  of  Christian  youth  to  the  cause  of  the 


328  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

Lord.  On  this  point  I  think  the  parents  in  our  congregations, 
and  the  young,  need  to  be  reminded  of  their  obligations,  and  it 
were  well  if  ministers  more  habitually  pressed  on  the  attention 
of  their  congregations  the  duty  of  parents  to  devote  their  chil- 
dren to  the  work  of  the  ministry,  even  in  their  early  infancy,  and 
the  duty  of  the  pious  among  the  youth  of  the  land  to  devote 
themselves  early  to  this  sacred  work.  In  this  way  we  would 
have  coming  into  our  colleges,  with  a  view  to  the  ministry,  the 
godly  youth  of  the  land,  from  all  parts  of  the  country.  .  .  .  We 
hail  every  new  instance  of  a  parent,  stirred  up  by  a  sense  of  the 
loud  call  the  Lord  is  addressing  to  him,  to  devote  and  consecrate 
a  child  to  His  service — every  new  instance  of  a  young  man 
turning  away  from  the  secular  pursuits  of  earthly  ambition,  and 
consecrating  himself  to  the  ministry  of  the  Word,  in  the  service 
of  a  Church  which  has  no  higher  prize  to  offer  now  than  the 
prize  of  winning  souls  unto  God."  * 

Within  a  week  from  the  time  when  these  words  were  spoken, 
the  New  College  was  opened  at  Edinburgh,  the  inaugural  address 
being  delivered  in  the  Brick  Church,  Castle  Terrace,  by  Dr. 
Chalmers,  in  the  presence  of  "  a  large  number  of  students,  and 
a  numerous  and  highly  respectable  audience."  It  was  encour- 
aging to  see  103  young  men  of  those  formerly  enrolled  as 
students  of  divinity,  rallying  round  the  professors  of  the  Free 
Church,  and  still  more  so,  to  find  seventy-six  entering  as 
students  of  the  first  year.  The  number  was  large,  but  the 
fervour  of  Disruption  feeling  was  strong  among  the  youth 
of  Scotland,  and  not  among  the  youth  alone.  "  We  have 
had  some  very  cheering  instances,"  Dr.  Chalmers  said,  "  I 
could  name  about  twenty  or  thirty,  of  men  abandoning  secular 
employments  and  professions,  giving  up  the  prospect  of  a 
large  and  liberal  competency  in  the  walks  of  business,  to 
devote  themselves  to  the  Christian  ministry,  and  who  are  in 
actual  attendance  at  the  theological  seminary,  or  are  engaged 
some  of  them  in  learning  Greek,  and  studying  the  very  elements 
of  a  collegiate  education  in  the  University  of  Edinburgh,  and 
that  in  the  hope  that  .  .  .  they  may  fulfil  the  object  upon 
which  their  hearts  are  set — that  is,  to  labour  in  the  service 
*  Assembly  Proceedings,  1843,  Glasgow,  p.  170. 


THE  NEW  COLLEGE.  329 

of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  during  the  remainder  of  their 
lives."  * 

A  commencement  such  as  this  was  full  of  encouragement, 
but  that  first  session  had  not  run  its  course  before  the  friends 
of  the  college  felt  that  it  was  essential  to  have  suitable  collegiate 
buildings  provided  without  delay.  A  movement  with  this 
object  in  view  was  set  on  foot,  Mr.  Earle  Monteith,  advocate, 
taking  the  lead.  The  first  thing  was  to  find  a  fitting  site  in 
some  central  and  prominent  position.  It  might  be  difficult  to 
obtain,  and  costly,  but  the  fact  that  so  many  of  the  leading 
congregations  had  been  forced  to  place  their  churches  out  of 
sight,  in  back  lanes  and  back  greens,  rendered  it  only  the 
more  needful  to  have  the  college  set  advantageously  in  public 
view. 

In  May,  1844,  Mr.  Monteith  laid  the  subject  before  the 
Assembly,  stating  on  high  authority  that  from  £20,000  to 
£25,000  would  be  required  to  "  erect  a  college  which  would  be 
a  credit  to  the  Church."  If  to  this  were  added  the  cost  of  such 
a  site  as  was  intended,  the  expense  would  be  great,  but  there 
was  one  circumstance  which  had  given  him  confidence  in  the 
result.  He  had  met  Mr.  Macdonald,  of  Blairgowrie,  fresh  from 
that  wonderful  tour  in  which,  with  such  ease  and  so  much 
pleasure  to  all  parties,  he  had  in  half-a-year  raised  the  sum  of 
£50,000,  and  Mr.  Monteith  said,  "  When  I  stated  this  to  him 
[the  cost],  and  told  him  that  I  thought  the  time  was  now  come 
when  we  should  set  about  the  erection,  before  he  would  give  his 
approbation  to  the  plan,  he  made  it  a  condition  that  we  should 
accept  of  £10,000  from  himself.  Some  would  have  been  very 
apt  to  take  this  as  a  boast,  and  I  confess  that  had  he  made  the 
offer  to  me  six  months  ago,  I  would  have  been  very  apt  to  smile 
at  it,  but  when  we  see  that  within  the  last  six  months  he  has 
raised  five  times  the  sum,  I  think  we  may  consider  that  in  the 
course  of  twelve  months  his  £10,000  will  be  as  sure  as  if  we 
had  his  bank-bill  for  it."  f 

It  need  not  be  said  how  gladly  this  proposal  was  welcomed. 
Mr.  Macdonald  was  cordially  thanked  for  the  £50,000  he  had 
already  raised,  and  with  all  the  encouragement  which  the 
♦  Assembly  Proceedings,  1844,  p.  250.  f  Ibid.  p.  177. 


330  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION, 

Assembly  could  give,  he  was  sent  forth  anew  in  quest  of  the 
£]  0,000  for  the  college. 

Availing  ourselves  again  of  the  narrative  formerly  quoted, 
we  find  that  in  this  new  undertaking  Mr,  Macdonald  "  met 
with  the  same  overflowing  kindness  to  himself  personally,  and 
the  same  liberality  in  subscribing  to  the  cause,  as  had  every- 
where been  extended  to  him  when  collecting  the  £50,000  for  the 
erection  of  schools.  He  was  frequently  pronounced  to  be  the 
most  notable  beggar  of  the  time,  and  the  enthusiasm  manifested 
in  favour  of  his  schemes  was  truly  astonishing.  He  diligently 
availed  himself,  no  doubt,  of  every  argument  fitted  to  reach  the 
hearts  and  consciences  of  his  auditors,  whether  they  were  based 
upon  facts  gathered  as  he  went  along,  or  upon  anecdotes,  or 
passages  of  Scripture.  He  sometimes  told  a  very  eSective  illus- 
tration of  a  favourite  text — '  There  is  that  scattereth  and  yet 
increaseth ;  and  there  is  that  withholdeth  more  than  is  meet, 
but  it  tendeth  to  poverty.'  A  lady  resident  in  Edinburgh,  and 
bearing  a  well-known  and  much-respected  name,  had  undertaken 
to  collect,  in  contributions  of  one  shilling,  a  given  amount  for  a 
very  good  purpose.  There  were,  among  others,  two  sisters, 
friends  of  hers,  from  each  of  whom  she  expected  a  shilling. 
Calling  at  their  residence  in  the  suburbs,  she  found  only  one  of 
them  at  home.  She,  however,  at  once  contributed  a  shilling  for 
herself  and  also  a  shilling  for  her  absent  sister.  The  absent  sister 
by-and-by  met  the  lady  who  had  been  collecting  the  shillings, 
and  informed  her,  to  her  utter  amazement,  that  she  decidedly 
objected  to  the  contribution  made  by  her  sister  on  her  behalf, 
and  that  the  shilling  must  be  returned.  In  vain  did  the  lady 
remonstrate  with  her  friend — the  shilling  must  be  paid  back,  and 
paid  back  there  and  then.  It  accordingly  was,  but  with  this  remark, 
*  Well,  well,  there  it  is,  but,  depend  upon  it,  you  will  get  no  blessing 
with  it.'  After  some  time,  the  two  friends  met  again.  Allud- 
ing to  their  last  interview,  the  lady-collector  said,  '  Now,  honestly 
tell  me,  did  you  get  a  blessing  with  that  shilling  ? '  Somewhat 
hesitatingly,  the  other  replied,  '  Well,  to  tell  the  real  truth,  the 
very  day  I  took  back  the  shilling  /  lost  a  pound  !' 

"  In  fulfilling  his  present  task,  Mr.  Macdonald  visited  such 
localities  as  he  had  not  been  able  to  visit  before.     When  in  the 


THE  NEW  COLLEGE.  331 

North,  he  was  urged  to  go  to  Shetland;  writing  from  which,  in 
July,  1844,  he  says :  '  The  Lord  has  sent  me  here,  and  He  has 
blessed  my  labours.  I  have  got  upwards  of  £100  in  Lerwick, 
but,  what  is  better,  I  think  I  have  got  souls.  As  we  have  no 
Free  Church  in  Lerwick,  I  preached  in  the  Secession  Chapel,  in 
the  Independent  Chapel,  and  last  night  in  the  Methodist  Chapel.' 
It  happened  at  this  very  time  that  Mr.  Bruce,  better  known  as 
Dr.  Bruce,  of  Free  St.  Andrew's  Church,  Edinburgh,  had  arrived 
from  Edinburgh,  for  the  purpose  of  organising  a  Free  Church 
congregation  there ;  and  while  Mr.  Macdonald  preached  in  the 
Methodist  Chapel  the  building  was  so  crowded  that  Mr.  Bruce 
and  his  sister,  who  were  present,  were  obliged  to  sit  on  the 
pulpit  stair.  Mr.  Macdonald  visited  Orkney  at  this  time  also, 
and  there  he  received  subscriptions  for  £340.  Cromarty  sub- 
scribed £150 ;  and  from  Cromarty  Mr.  Macdonald  wrote  in 
August :  *  I  had  the  rare  pleasure  of  meeting  two  very  distin- 
guished men  here — Mr.  Stewart,  of  Cromarty,  and  Hugh  Miller, 
of  the  Witness.  We  had  breakfast  together  at  the  minister's 
house,  and  I  spent  a  most  enjoyable  morning  with  these  remark- 
able men.  They  were  both  greatly  interested  in  my  work.' 
Nairn,  Forres,  Fochabers  were  visited  on  this  journey,  and 
subscribed.     Huntly  gave  £818  and  Keith  £348. 

"  Keturning  from  the  North,  Mr.  Macdonald  visited  Hawick, 
Selkirk,  Galashiels,  Melrose,  Bowden,  Peebles,  all  in  one  week, 
and  in  October  he  visited  Dumfries  and  Thornhill.  An  interest- 
ing account  of  his  visit  to  these  two  last-named  places  appears 
in  a  local  newspaper,  as  follows : — '  Eev.  Mr.  Macdonald. — This 
gifted  and  devoted  minister,  before  returning  to  his  own  flock, 
made  a  descent  upon  Dumfries,  not  with  the  highest  expectations 
as  to  the  result.  Spite  of  the  Caledonian  Hunt,  however,  and 
other  attractions  there,  a  large  assembly  collected  to  hear  him 
on  the  evening  of  Monday  last,  and,  ere  they  parted,  subscribed 
the  sum  of  £806,  17s.  8d.  On  the  same  day,  and  in  the  same 
place.  Dr.  John  Hunter,  of  the  Tron,  and  Mr.  J"ames  Cochrane,  of 
Cupar  [both  belonging  to  the  Establishment],  after  very  emphatic 
addresses,  succeeded  in  inducing  the  ladies  of  Dumfries  to  con- 
tribute the  sum  of  £8,  3s.  4d.  for  the  advancement  of  female 
education  in  India.     Next  day  Mr.  Macdonald  set  off  for  Thorn- 


332  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

hill,  and,  after  paying  his  respects  to  Janet  Fraser,  who  was 
greatly  delighted  with  his  visit,  preached  at  Virginhall  in  the 
evening,  and  explained  his  school-building  scheme.  The  sum 
of  £240  was  raised  without  any  difficulty.  A  shepherd,  who 
had  travelled  all  the  way  from  Crawford  Moor  to  hear  him, 
subscribed  his  500  pennies — more  than  a  fourth  part  of  the  sum 
which  the  whole  female  aristocracy  of  Dumfries  had  contributed 
on  the  previous  day  for  the  cause  of  female  education  in  India.' 

"  In  the  General  Assembly  of  1845,  and  on  the  31st  of  May, 
Mr.  Macdonald  addressed  the  Assembly,  and  reported  that  he 
had  fulfilled  the  three-months*  duty  on  behalf  of  the  College 
Fund,  devolved  upon  him  by  the  Assembly  of  1844.  He  also 
expressed  how  much  he  regretted  that  he  had  not  been  able  to 
visit  many  places  in  which  he  knew  that  a  visit  would  have 
been  very  acceptable.  The  £10,000  additional,  however,  had 
all  been  subscribed."  * 

Thus  successfully  had  Mr.  Macdonald  brought  into  the 
treasury  the  sum  which  he  had  promised  to  raise,  and  Mr- 
Monteith  was  ready  no  less  successfully  to  do  his  part  in 
laying  it  out  to  the  best  advantage.  Already  in  the  Assembly 
he  had  announced  the  purchase  of  a  site  at  the  head  of  the 
Mound,  of  which  it  was  said,  on  the  best  authority,  that  "  no 
better  could  have  been  found  had  we  searched  all  Scotland." 
The  expense,  indeed,  had  been  proportionally  great — the  first 
outlay  (subsequently  modified)  had  amounted  to  just  £10,000 
for  the  site  alone,  so  that  after  the  efi'ort  that  had  been  made, 
the  whole  cost  of  the  building  had  still  to  be  provided  for. 

Here,  once  more,  Mr.  Macdonald  interposed  to  offer  a  sugges- 
tion, perhaps  the  boldest  in  its  conception,  and  that  which,  in 
the  hands  of  Dr.  Welsh,  became  the  happiest  in  its  execution 
of  all  these  movements.  "  In  the  summer  of  1844,  and  just 
before  he  had  completed  the  work  assigned  to  him  by  the 
Assembly  in  May,  of  raising  subscriptions  for  £10,000  in  aid  of 
the  New  College,  a  munificent  contribution  was  placed  at  Mr, 
Macdonald's  disposal,  which,  under  God,  was  the  means  of 
drawing  forth,  on  the  part  of  several  individuals,  '  an  exhibition 
of  the  power  of  Christian  principle'  very  seldom  equalled.  The 
*  Disi.  IMss.  Iv. 


THE  NEW  COLLEGE.  333 

honoured  contributor,  whose  generous  gift  of  £2000  was  thus 
blessed,  handed  that  amount  to  Mr.  Macdonald,  with  power  to 
him  to  apply  it  as  he  might  believe  to  be  most  advisable  for  the 
benefit  of  the  New  College.  .  .  . 

"  Now,  the  idea  occurred  to  him  that,  as  the  less  wealthy 
members  of  the  Free  Church  had  subscribed  so  heartily 
for  the  erection  of  schools,  so  the  more  wealthy  members 
might  be  willing,  if  asked,  to  contribute  of  their  abundance 
for  the  erection  of  a  college.  At  the  earliest  opportunity  he 
waited  upon  Dr.  Welsh,  the  convener  of  the  college  com- 
mittee, and  informed  him  that  he  had  received  £2000  which 
could  be  applied  for  the  building  of  the  proposed  New  College  ; 
and  then,  for  the  first  time,  Mr.  Macdonald  suggested,  and  urged 
upon  the  convener,  the  propriety  of  trying  to  raise  £20,000  in 
subscriptions  of  £1000  each,  from  twenty  individuals,  for  this 
object.  Dr.  Welsh  was  not  a  little  startled  at  this  bold  pro- 
posal of  his  young  friend,  but  after  di- cussing  it,  and  looking  at 
it  on  all  sides,  he  agreed  to  give  it  a  trial.  Next  morning,  how- 
ever, after  sleeping  over  it,  the  revered  and  excellent  doctor  was 
much  troubled  with  doubts  as  to  the  wisdom  of  acting  on  the 
suggestions  of  so  ardent  and  youthful  a  counsellor.  But  while 
he  was  in  this  state  of  hesitation,  Mr.  Macdonald  happened,  for- 
tunately, to  call  again.  E-eturning  to  the  subject  with  his  usual 
enthusiasm.  Dr.  Welsh  was  prevailed  upon  finally  to  undertake 
the  scheme.  The  result  will  be  told  by  Dr.  Welsh  himself,  in 
the  following  letter  to  Dr.  Candlish,  read  at  the  Commission 
of  Assembly  on  the  20th  November,  1844  : — 

"  '  59  Melville  Street,  20th  November,  1844. 
"  *  My  deae  Sie, — As  in  the  present  state  of  my  healtli,  I  am 
advised  not  to  attend  the  meeting  of  Commission  this  day,  I 
shall  be  obliged  to  you  to  give  in  a  report  respecting  the  pro- 
ceedings for  building  the  college.  The  facts  are  simply  these : 
About  two  months  ago  Mr.  Macdonald,  of  Blairgowrie,  called 
upon  me  to  inform  me  that  he  had  got  £2000 — or,  perhaps, 
£o000 — for  building  a  new  college,  and  urged  upon  me  the 
propriety  of  endeavouring  to  raise  £20,000  from  twenty  indi- 
viduals.    As  I  had  got  £1000,  in  addition  to  the  sum  procured 


334  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

by  Mr.  Macdonald,  I  felt  stronc^ly  inclined  to  undertake  the 
duty,  mainly  from  the  desirableness  of  not  distracting  the  people 
of  Scotland  in  general  with  a  new  scheme,  and  partly  also  from 
the  consideration  that,  as  the  middle  and  lower  orders  had 
raised  £50,000  for  the  building  of  schools,  £20,000  was  not 
too  much  to  expect  from  twenty  of  our  wealthier  adherents, 
who  would  thus  perpetuate  their  names  as  exhibiting  the  power 
of  Christian  principle.  Accordingly,  I  commenced  operations, 
and  in  about  a  mouth  £17,000  in  all  was  the  sum  that  was 
raised  ;  and  I  have  since  that  period  got  two  additional  names, 
making  £19,000  in  all.  Had  I  not  been  taken  ill  in  Glasgow 
when  engaged  in  the  work  of  raising  subscriptions,  I  have  no 
doubt  whatever  the  sum  of  £20,000  would  have  been  procured 
long  ago,  and  it  would  have  been  more  pleasant  to  me  to  have 
given  a  report  that  the  whole  was  completed.  But  we  must 
cheerfully  submit  to  the  ways  of  Divine  Providence,  knowing 
that  they  are  always  for  the  best.  At  present  I  do  not  mention 
the  names  of  any  of  the  contributors,  as  several  of  them  objected 
to  having  their  names  published  in  the  newspapers,  and  several 
of  the  donors  are  anonymous.  While  for  the  present,  therefore, 
I  abstain  from  giving  any  names,  I  think  it  proper  to  state  that, 
while  the  motives  of  the  individuals  who  have  a  hesitation  as  to 
giving  publicity  to  their  benevolence  are  of  the  most  praise- 
worthy description,  there  are  names  on  the  list  which,  by  their 
piety  and  station,  would  adorn  any  cause.  I  had  almost  forgot 
to  state  that  I  have  the  most  perfect  confidence  in  the  sum  being 
completed  in  a  few  days. — I  am,  &c.,  David  Welsh.' 

"  Dr.  Candlish,  in  some  humourous  remarks,  stated  '  that  the 
shares  of  this  stock  were  at  a  premium,  that  only  one  share  was 
in  the  market,  for  which  the  College  Committee  expected  several 
competitors ;  and  if  the  biddings  for  it  were  spirited  it  might 
be  a  matter  of  consideration  whether  or  not  a  few  more  shares 
might  not  with  propriety,  and  with  great  generosity  on  their 
part,  be  allocated.  To  our  friends  in  the  West  we  are  greatly 
indebted,  in  coming  forward  with  their  wonted  liberality  ou 
behalf  of  this  scheme.' 

"  In  ihe  editorial  column  of  the  Witness  newspaper  of  the  day, 


THE  NEW  COLLEGE.  335 

the  following  notice  appeared : — *  Our  readers  will  peruse  with 
peculiar  interest  and  satisfaction  the  letter  of  Dr.  Welsh  in 
regard  to  the  New  College.  Such  a  splendid  and  munificent 
subscription  list  will,  we  have  no  doubt,  equally  cheer  our 
friends  and  astonish  our  enemies ;  and  should  encourage  us  to 
onward  and  persevering  progress  in  the  great  work  in  which  the 
Free  Church  is  engaged.' 

"At  the  General  Assembly,  and  on  the  2nd  of  June,  1845,  Dr. 
Cunningham  read  the  report  of  the  College  Committee  (the 
revered  Dr.  Welsh  having  gone  to  his  reward),  in  which  it  was 
stated  that  Dr.  Welsh  had  succeeded  in  raising  the  £20,000 
referred  to  in  his  letter  of  November  last.  Mr.  Monteith  read 
a  report  to  the  eflfect  that  £21,000  had  been  raised  in  all — 
£2000  from  one  contributor,  and  £19,000  from  nineteen  others. 
Mr.  Monteith  also  reported  with  reference  to  the  plans  for  the 
new  building.  Mr.  Hog,  of  Newliston,  at  the  same  time  made 
an  interesting  statement  relative  to  a  bursary  fund  which  he 
had  been  exerting  himself  in  raising  for  the  benefit  of  young 
men  preparing  for  the  Free  Church.  After  some  discussion 
relative  to  these  several  reports,  on  the  motion  of  Dr.  Buchanan, 
the  Moderator  returned  thanks  to  Dr.  Cunningham,  Mr.  Mon- 
teith, and  Mr.  Hog.  In  the  motion  submitted  by  Dr.  Buchanan, 
the  following  passage  occurred  : — *  In  reference  to  that  part  of 
the  report  which  relates  to  the  erection  of  suitable  collegiate  build- 
ings, the  Assembly  have  heard  with  the  highest  satisfaction  and 
thankfulness  that  the  munificent  sum  of  £20,000,  in  sums  of 
£1000  each,  excepting  one  case,  in  which  the  subscription 
amounted  to  £2000,  has  been  subscribed  towards  carrying  this 
object  into  effect ;  and  they  remit  to  the  Committee,  of  whose 
past  proceedings  they  cordially  approve,  to  proceed  with  all 
convenient  speed  towards  the  accomplishment  of  this  important 
undertaking.' 

"  Before  this  subject  was  passed  from,  Mr.  Sheriff  Monteith 
stated,  that  although  the  raising  of  the  £20,000  for  the  college 
from  twenty  individuals  had  been  attributed  to  Dr.  Welsh,  and, 
no  doubt  it  was  in  a  great  degree  rightly  attributed,  still,  the 
idea  of  the  scheme  did  not  originate  with  him,  but  with  a 
gentleman  to  whom  the  Church  owed  much.     A  few  days  after 


336 


ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 


the  Assembly  of  last  year  (probably  the  Commission  in  August), 
Dr.  Welsh  called  upon  him  (Mr.  M.),  and  stated  that  a  scheme 
had  been  suggested  to  him  whereby  £20,000  could  be  obtained 
from  twenty  individuals  for  the  College  Fund,  each  paying 
£1000.  He  (Mr.  M.)  thought  the  proposal  altogether  visionary, 
but  Dr.  Welsh  said  that  he  had  such  confidence  in  Mr.  Mac- 
donald,  of  Blairgowrie,  who  was  the  person  who  suggested  it — 
(hear  hear) — that  he  would  try  its  success,  and  that  success  was, 
that  within  six  months  he  had  the  sum  required  (hear,  hear)." 

How  the  enterprise  thus  auspiciously  begun  was  subsequently 
carried  out  it  is  not  for  us  here  to  tell.  The  handsome  build- 
ings now  seen  at  the  head  of  the  Mound  were  erected,  after  a 
design  by  Mr.  Playfair,  at  an  expense  of  £46,506.  The  New 
College  has  gathered  round  it  endowments  and  funds  which 
now  amount  to  about  £44,000.  A  library,  containing  35,000 
volumes  of  the  most  valuable  literature,  has  been  brought 
together.  Upwards  of  1300  students  of  divinity,  intended  for 
the  ministry  of  the  Free  Church,  have  attended  the  Hall,  and 
in  addition  to  these,  there  have  been  41  Scottish  students  of 
difierent  denominations,  120  from  Ireland,  14  from  England, 
and  14  from  Wales.  The  following  also  have  attended  from 
abroad — namely,  from 

Canada, SO 


United  States, 

Cape  of  Good  Hope, 

Hungary, 

Bohemia, 

Italy,    . 

France, 

Switzerland, 

Belgium, 


30 

^20 

15 

15 

11 

8 

4 

2 


A  few  from  other  nationalities,  bring  up  the  whole  number  of 
foreign  students  to  145. 

But  this  is  not  all.  Not  only  has  the  New  College  in 
Edinburgh  been  attended  by  a  measure  of  success  so  grati- 
fying, the  Church  has  further  reason  to  be  thankful  for  the 
establishment  of  two  sister  colleges,  the  first  at  Aberdeen  and 
the  second  at  Claseow.     Into  the  history  of  these  important 


THE  NEW  COLLEGE.  337 

institutions  we  do  not  at  present  enter.  They  were  built,  and, 
to  a  large  extent,  endowed  by  the  munificence  of  generous 
friends  who  feit  the  importance  of  having  a  Divinity  Hall  in 
each  of  these  seats  of  learning.  Thus,  while  many  prayers 
have  been  going  up  to  the  Lord  of  the  vineyard  to  send 
forth  the  needful  labourers,  the  Church  and  her  supporters 
have  been  enabled  to  show  the  sincerity  of  their  prayers  by 
those  efforts  and  sacrifices  through  means  of  which  ample 
opportunities  have  been  provided  for  the  education  of  all  the 
youth  of  Scotland  whose  hearts  are  turned  towards  the  work 
of  the  ministry. 

The  whole  sums  expended  on  these  colleges  and  their  endow- 
ments were  stated  in  1874  as  amounting  to  £201,353,  and  they 
have  since  been  increased. 


» 


338  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 


XXVII.  Manses. 

Chueches,  and  schools,  and  colleges  were  thus  provided  for  ; 
but  there  was  yet  another  of  those  great  euterptises  requiring 
to  be  brought  before  the  people — the  Manse-building  Scheme, 
which  was  destined  to  be  so  closely  associated  with  the  name 
of  Dr.  Guthrie. 

In  rural  districts,  as  all  Scotland  knows,  a  manse  for  the 
minister  is  essential,  not  merely  for  his  personal  comfort,  but 
tliat,  dwelling  in  the  midst  of  his  flock,  he  may  have  ready 
means  of  access  to  the  people.  Accordingly,  at  the  Disruption, 
where  money  could  be  found,  there  were  parishes  in  which  the 
church  and  the  manse  were  seen  rising  together. 

One  instance  of  this  we  may  take  from  the  parish  of  Tor- 
phichen.  Dr.  Hetherington  had  held  a  prominent  place  as  an 
able  advocate  of  Free  Church  principles,  through  the  press  and 
from  the  platform ;  and  the  same  energy  which  he  had  displayed 
during  the  conflict  was  conspicuous,  both  in  himself  and  among 
his  leading  parishioners,  after  the  battle  was  over,  "  The  earth," 
it  is  stated,  "  was  begun  to  be  cleared  away  for  the  foundation  of 
the  church  on  the  12th  day  of  June,  and  the  church  was  opened 
for  public  worship  on  the  6th  day  of  August,  being  the  first 
Sabbath  of  that  month,  the  whole  having  been  completed  within 
the  short  space  of  eight  weeks.  This  almost  unequalled  rapi- 
dity was,  under  the  blessing  of  God,  owing  to  the  remarkable 
activity  and  energy  of  Mr.  David  Macnair,  by  whom  the  whole 
work  was  managed.  On  the  24th  day  of  August  Mr.  Hether- 
ington entered  into  the  manse,  which  was  also  ready  for  his 
reception  ;  and  on  the  2ntl  day  of  October  the  new  school  was 
opened  by  Mr.  Alex.  Bethune,  who  had  been  chosen  to  be 
schoolmaster  by  the  congregation  after  a  public  examination. 


MANSES.  339 

Thus,  by  the  singular  goodness  of  God  to  the  people  of  Tor- 
phichen,  theirs  was  the  first  church,  the  first  manse,  and  the 
first  school  opened  for  public  use  in  connection  with  the  Free 
Church  of  Scotland ;  and  this  is  here  registered,  not  as  a 
ground  of  boasting,  but  of  fervent  and  grateful  thanksgiving 
to  that  all-gracious  God  who  wrought  great  things  for  them."  * 

Individual  cases  such  as  this,  in  which  manses  were  built 
during  the  first  summer,  occurred  in  various  parts  of  the 
country ;  but  time  was  needed  to  bring  home  to  the  Church 
in  general  a  sense  of  those  hardsliips  under  which  ministers 
were  suffering.  Already  in  a  former  section  we  have  described 
the  dwellings  to  which  the  families  of  the  manse  had  to 
retire,  involving  in  many  cases  trials  almost  as  hard  for  the 
people  to  witness  as  for  the  ministers  to  bear.  It  may  be 
right,  however,  to  give  some  additional  examples,  in  order  to 
remind  the  reader  of  the  extent  to  which  such  things  prevailed 
all  over  the  country. 

There  were  localities  in  which  the  inconveniences  were 
slight.  "  I  have  been  badly  situated  for  a  residence,"  says 
Mr.  Gibson,  of  Kirkbean ;  "  sometimes  under  the  necessity 
of  living  with  one  family,  and  sometimes  with  another.  Now 
[1846]  I  am  living  with  a  large  family  for  a  time,  and  in  a  very 
small  cottage,  in  every  way  uncomfortable  for  a  minister's 
residence."  + 

A  migratory  life  such  as  this  had  its  discomforts,  but 
frequently  the  trials  were  of  a  more  serious  kind.  "  Mr. 
Edmondston,  of  Ashkirk,  was  a  man  of  much  refinement  and 
classical  culture,  in  whom  learning  and  piety  were  always  exhibited 
in  happy  union.  .  .  .  When  the  Disruption  became  inevi- 
table, he  did  not  hesitate  to  surrender  one  of  the  few  good 
livings  in  the  south  of  Scotland — a  beautiful  manse  and  glebe, 
and  the  position  of  a  parish  minister,  which,  to  one  of  his  tastes 
and  education,  was  more  trying  than  the  surrender  of  income. 
.  .  .  Certain  legal  difficulties  were  interposed  in  the  way  of 
granting  a  site  for  a  manse.  Mr.  Edmonston  accordingly  was 
obliged  to  take  up  his  residence  in  a  small  house  four  miles 

*  Kirk-session  Record,  Torphichen. 
+  Disr.  Mss.  xxiii.  p.  7. 


340  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

distant  from  his  church,  andj  being  soon  deprived  of  this,  he  had 
to  remove  to  a  damp,  decayed  farmhouse  three  miles  farther 
distant.  Under  the  excessive  fatigue  to  which  he  had  thus  been 
exposed,  and  in  this  unhealthy  residence,  his  health  failed,  and 
it  was  only  after  a  lengthened  sojourn  at  Harrogate  that  he  was 
enabled  to  resume  his  ministerial  labours.  In  1845  he  trans- 
ferred his  residence  to  Selkirk.  Here  he  remained  for  fourteen 
years,  subjected  to  all  the  inconvenience  of  carrying  on  his 
pastoral  work  at  the  distance  of  six  miles  from  his  flock.  Few 
ministers  suffered  more.  For  nearly  eight  years  he  walked  every 
Lord's  day  to  his  church  and  back,  after  preaching  and  holding 
a  Sabbath  school.  He  was  accustomed  to  say,  when  remon- 
strated with,  '  It  is  my  Master's  work,  and  I  rejoice  to  do  it.' 
But  the  fatigue  and  excitement  proved  too  great  a  strain  on 
his  constitution,  and  he  was  again  ordered  to  the  south  of 
England."  * 

In  contrast  to  this  and  the  cases  which  follow,  it  ought  to  be 
acknowledged  that  among  the  landlords  of  Scotland  opposed  to 
the  Free  Church  there  were  some  who  acted  a  very  generous 
part  towards  the  outgoing  ministers.  One  of  these  was  the 
Marquis  of  Tweeddale,  who,  during  the  conflict,  had  resisted 
the  claims  of  the  Church,  without,  however,  allowing  any  keen- 
ness of  controversy  to  interfere  with  the  kindness  of  private 
intercourse.  In  1843  he  was  in  India  as  Governor  of  Madras, 
but,  opposed  though  he  was  to  the  Disruption,  he  did  not  forget 
his  parish  minister,  for  whose  personal  comfort  in  that  time  of 
trial  he  showed  the  most  kind  and  thoughtful  consideration. 

Dr.  Thomson,  then  of  Yester,  writes  :  "  At  first  there  seemed 
to  be  even  greater  difficulty  in  procuring  a  dwelling-house  than 
in  procuring  a  place  for  public  worship.  If  Lord  Tweeddale  had 
been  at  home,  I  was  sure  that  he  would  have  given  me  one  of 
his  empty  houses  in  the  village  for  the  accommodation  of  my 
family  ;  but  I  was  not  sure  that  the  factor — though  he  always 
acted  a  fair  and  honourable  part — would  feel  at  liberty  to  grant 
it.  At  that  time,  however — before  the  Disruption — I  went  to 
him  to  inquire  if  he  could.  He  told  me  that  he  had  just  had  a 
letter  from  his  lordship  at  Madras,  to  say  that  he  hoped  I  would 

*  Puiker  Mss.,  Presb.  of  Selkirk. 


MANSES.  341 

not  leave  the  manse  ;  but  that  if  I  did,  I  was  to  take  any  house 
of  his  that  I  might  prefer.  The  factor  offered  me  the  choice 
of  two  houses,  and  pressed  me  to  take  the  larger  one ;  but  I 
preferred  the  smaller  cottage  on  account  of  its  superior  situa- 
tion and  view.  I  asked  him  what  the  rent  would  be.  He 
replied  that  his  instructions  were  that  I  was  to  sit  rent-free.  I 
demurred  to  this  ;  and  at  length  the  difficulty  was  removed  by 
his  sa3dng  that  it  would  be  £6  yearly.  So  that,  unlike  many 
of  my  less  favoured  brethren,  my  difficulty  was  not  about  getting 
a  house,  but  about  inducing  the  owner  to  accept  any  rent  for  it. 
I  have  great  pleasure  in  recording  this,  in  gratitude  to  my  noble 
patron,  and  also  to  his  factor,  Henry  M.  Davidson,  Esq.  In  a 
week  or  two  after  the  Disruption  we  quitted  the  manse ;  and 
this  unquestionably  was  the  most  painful  part  of  the  whole  pro- 
cess. It  was  done  very  rapidly  by  my  worthy  partner.  In  the 
morning  I  went  to  Haddington  to  attend  a  meeting  of  Pres- 
bytery, and  when  I  returned  in  the  evening,  I  found  the  manse 
empty  and  the  cottage  in  beautiful  order ;  so  that  I  was  almost 
inclined  to  say,  like  Dr.  N.  Paterson,  of  Glasgow,  at  the  Con- 
vocation, that  the  lifeboat  looked  nearly  as  beautiful  as  the 
ship."  * 

Such  acts  of  kindness  should  not  be  forgotten,  though  the 
contrast  only  sets  other  cases  in  a  more  painful  light. 

At  Forgandenny,  Mr  Drummond  states:  "  Before  leaving  home 
for  the  Disruption  Assembly  I  arranged  with  a  neighbour  who 
had  a  couple  of  comfortable  rooms  to  spare,  to  let  us  have 
them  should  we  require  them.  And  when  the  great  event  had 
actually  taken  place,  I  wrote  to  my  wife,  who  remained  in  the 
manse  during  my  absence,  to  remind  that  person  of  his  pro- 
mise, and  to  make  sure  that  we  should  have  the  apartments. 
His  answer  was  that  he  dared  not,  and  plainly  signified  that  he 
had  been  warned  of  the  risk  he  would  incur  should  he  let  them 
to  us.   .  .  . 

"  There  being  now  no  other  suitable  dwelling  in  the  parish, 
we  were  obliged  to  take  refuge  in  a  small  thatched  cottage  in 
the  village,  where  we  remained  for  upwards  of  four  months, 
till  the  health  of  both  of  us  began  to  suffer,  and  our  medical 

*  Disr.  Mss.  Ivii. 


I 


342  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

friend  insisted  that  we  should  remove  as  speedily  as  possible. 
In  that  cottage  we  had  but  one  small  room  for  all  purposes; 
our  servant  had  to  sleep  and  prepare  our  victuals  in  another 
cottage."  * 

The  privations  thus  submitted  to  were  often  of  the  most  pain- 
ful kind.  A  much  respected  minister  writes  that,  "  when  he  and 
his  family  left  the  manse,  they  took  up  their  abode  in  a  house, 
...  the  only  one  they  could  get  in  the  parish;  and  the  place  was 
30  small  that  they  had  to  pack  two  nurses  and  eight  children 
into  two  beds  which  were  scarcely  large  enough  to  hold  two 
adults."  f 

It  was  not  easy  to  exchange  comfortable  manses  for  such 
dwellings.  How  this  was  done  in  most  cases  we  have  already 
seen;  but  additional  examples  may  be  given,  still  further  to 
show  how  such  experiences  were  met,  and  especially  what 
impressions  were  made  on  the  children  of  the  manse. 

The  Eev.  Eric  Findlater,  at  Lochearnhead,  writes  to  his 
father  :  "  I  well  remember  the  leaving  of  the  manse.  It  was 
in  a  warm  but  dull  July  night.  During  the  day  all  was  excite- 
ment about  the  house,  in  consequence  of  the  sale ;  but  towards 
the  evening  the  people  had  dispersed,  and  I  accompanied  the 
children  in  sight  of  the  farm-house  where  they  were  to  spend 
the  night,  but  soon  returned.  At  the  manse  I  found  none  but 
yourself  and  my  mother.  You  may  remember,  about  this  time 
the  godly  miller  from  Balnakeel  came  up,  and  that  either  he  or 
yourself  joined  in  prayer.  I  could  do  little  else  than  traverse 
all  the  rooms  in  the  house  for  the  last  time,  which  I  did  again 
and  again,  a  hundred  youthful  and  pleasing  associations  crowd- 
ing upon  me  at  every  step.  At  length  the  miller  departed. 
I  remember  that  neither  my  mother  nor  you  spoke  much,  and 
when  you  wished  to  lock  the  door,  she  insisted  on  doing  so 
herself,  and  with  her  own  hands  quenching  the  dying  embers 
of  the  nursery  fire.  Having  done  this,  she  turned  the  key  in 
the  door  of  that  house  in  which  she  was  born,  and  where  she 
had  spent  the  greater  part  of  her  life.  Not  a  word  was  spoken. 
We  then  slowly  walked  away,  and  when  outside  the  gate  that 
*  Disr.  Mss.  liii.  pp.  5-7. 
t  Assembly  Proceedings,  1845,  p.  242. 


MANSES.  343 

bounds  the  glebe,  we  stood  for  an  instant  and  looked  back — 
I  trust,  none  of  us  in  the  spirit  of  Lot's  wife — and  then  resumed 
our  silent  walk.  I  remember  thinkino;  at  the  time,  when  look- 
ing on  you  as  a  houseless  old  man  that  night,  I  felt  prouder  of 
having  such  a  father  than  if  I  had  seen  you  sitting  in  the 
house  we  had  just  left  enjoying  otium  cum  dignitate,  but  want- 
ing the  approbation  of  a  good  conscience,  which  at  that 
moment  I  was  convinced  you  enjoyed  without  the  least  alloy. 
As  we  proceeded  to  the  inn,  the  people  had  too  much  of  the 
fine  feelings  so  characteristic  of  the  poor  Highlanders  to  allow 
them  to  make  any  open  or  noisy  demonstration,  though  there 
was  many  a  weeping  eye  and  sobbing  heart  among  them. 
When  we  arrived  at  the  inn,  my  dear  mother's  courage,  which 
had  never  failed  during  the  hard  ordeal  of  the  previous  days, 
now  gave  way,  and  got  relief  in  a  gush  of  womanly  feeling  in 
the  privacy  of  her  own  chamber."  *  .  .  . 

So  also,  at  Orailing, Roxburghshire, the  Eev.  A.W.  Milroy states: 
"  It  was  a  lovely  evening  in  July  when  the  manse  was  left.  When 
all  was  ready,  and  they  were  about  to  start,  my  father  gathered 
his  family  in  the  empty  room,  and  then  kneeling  down,  com- 
mended us  all  in  prayer  to  God's  keeping  and  love.  Such 
times  were  never  forgotten  even  by  the  youngest.  Long  after- 
wards my  brother,  who  had  knelt  as  a  boy  in  that  room,  wrote, 
when  embarking  for  Turkey  for  service  in  the  Crimean  war ; 
'  I  remember  our  father  assembling  us  all  in  Crailing  manse, 
and  committing  us  to  the  care  of  our  Heavenly  Father.  In  like 
manner  I  now  commit  myself  to  His  watchful  love.'  "  i* 

But  it  is  of  the  trials  that  were  met  with  after  the  change 
that  we  have  now  to  speak. 

Only  they  who  had  seen  Mr.  Garioch  in  the  manse  of  Old 
Meldrum  can  appreciate  what  he  tells  us  of  his  new  home : — 
■  When    my    late   wife   and   I,   with   our   servants,   left   the 

■  manse  of  the  Established  Church  at  Meldrum,  we  took  up 

■  our  abode  in  what  was  called  the  stocking-house,  probably 
I       from  the  purpose  to  which  it  had  been  applied  by  a  former 

■  proprietor.  ...  It  consisted  of  four  apartments — two  on  the 

I  *  Disr.  Mss.  Ivii. 

B  ♦■  Memorials  of  A  Quiet  Ministry,  p.  40. 

I 


344  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 

ground  floor,  which  were  used,  one  for  the  kitchen,  and  the  other 
as  a  place  for  lumber  ;  and  two  on  the  next  floor,  the  one  occu- 
pied as  a  sitting-room,  and  the  other  as  our  sleeping  apartment. 
The  larger  part  of  the  latter  room  was  so  low  in  the  roof,  and 
nothing  above  but  the  naked  rafters,  with  a  flooring  over 
them,  that  I  had  to  walk  very  warily,  and  to  be  careful 
lest  I  struck  my  head  against  one  or  other  of  them.  There 
was  also  a  sort  of  loft  or  garret  above  these,  into  which  as 
much  of  our  furniture  as  it  could  contain  was  packed,  and  the 
remainder  not  used  by  ourselves  was  received  under  safe  custody 
by  our  kind  neighbours  and  friends.  While  residing  here,  my 
dear  wife  was  seized  with  typhus  fever,  under  which,  in  this  poor 
state  of  accommodation,  she  lay  for  several  weeks  ;  but,  through 
the  great  mercy  of  our  God,  she  was  again  restored  to  health ; 
and  to  the  praise  and  glory  of  His  grace  I  can  say  that,  during 
all  the  hardships  of  that  period,  we  enjoyed  the  greatest  peace 
and  tranquillity  of  soul,  and  many  tokens  of  the  goodness  of 
our  Heavenly  Father.  One  of  our  servants,  while  we  were  in 
this  house,  also  had  an  attack  of  fever."  * 

The  breaking  up  of  families  was  another  trial  of  that  time, 
of  which  many  examples  might  be  given.  In  Aberdeenshire 
there  were  two  brothers — Mr.  Henry  Simson,  of  Chapel  of 
Qarioch,  and  Mr.  David  Simson,  of  Oyne — who  were  held  in 
high  respect  and  esteem  by  all  classes  of  society.  "  At  Oyne, 
Mr.  David  Simson  could  not  obtain  a  house  to  dwell  in,  in  any 
part  of  the  parish  or  neighbourhood.  At  last  he  got  two  small 
rooms  and  a  bed-closet  from  a  day-labourer,  who  occupied  the 
old  schoolhouse.  This  house  had  been  condemned  as  unsafe 
several  years  before.  The  joists  were  quite  gone,  the  stair  was 
rotten  and  propped  up.  There  were  holes  in  the  doors,  some 
inches  wide.  The  windows  at  times  neither  kept  out  rain, 
wind,  nor  snow.  A  great  part  of  the  roof  was  twice  blown  off 
while  he  possessed  it.  Still  it  was  the  only  house  in  the  parish 
that  could  be  obtained.  Mr.  Simson  was  thankful  to  get  it,  and 
lived  in  it  for  nearly  six  years."  -f* 

In  regard  to  Mr.  Henry  Simson,  it  is  stated  that  "  the  evil 
which  he  felt  most  keenly  was  the  difficulty  he  experienced  in 

*  Parker  Mss..  Presb.  of  Garioch.  +  Ibid. 


I 


MANSES.  345 

providing  in  the  scene  of  his  labours  a  suitable  residence  for 
himself  and  his  family.  He  often  mourned  over  his  protracted 
separation  from  them.  ...  He  was  under  the  necessity  of 
sending  his  wife  and  their  numerous  young  family  to  Aberdeen, 
a  distance  of  twenty  miles,  where  they  had  to  remain  three 
years ;  while  he,  during  that  period,  in  order  to  reside  in  the 
midst  of  his  flock,  was  constrained  to  betake  himself  to  lodgings 
of  a  very  insufficient  and  uncomfortable  description,  granted 
by  a  farmer.  The  proprietor,  however,  did  not  approve  of  this, 
and  gave  notice  to  the  farmer  that  this  would  not  be  permitted, 
and  desired  him  to  inform  Mr.  Simson  that  he  must  remove, 
which  accordingly  he  was  obliged  to  do.  He  then  got  a  small, 
damp  cottage,  in  another  part  of  the  parish  in  which  he  had 
faithfully  laboured  for  no  less  a  period  than  twenty-six  years, 
and  there,  we  believe,  he  contracted  a  disease  which  resulted  in 
his  death."  * 

Another  trying  case  was  that  of  Mr.  Inglis,  at  Edzell.  "  On 
the  20th  of  June  I  and  my  family  left  the  manse,  and  went  to 
a  house  in  the  village,  where  we  had  very  insufficient  accommo- 
dation. We  had  only  three  small  apartments  and  two  very 
small  closets.  The  largest  apartment  was  about  ten  feet 
square,  and  when  the  family  assembled  for  worship  there  was 
barely  room  to  kneel  round  a  small  table  in  the  middle  of  the 
room,  A  place  for  a  kitchen  was  fitted  up  in  an  outhouse 
forty  yards  away  from  the  room  where  we  took  our  meals.  We 
were  directly  opposite  the  inn,  and  visitors  there  were  much 
amused  for  years  to  see  the  dinner  of  the  Free  Church  minister 
and  his  family  carried  up  a  lane  and  down  a  street  to  the  place 
where  they  dwelt.  They  always  saw,  however,  that  we  were 
neither  starved  nor  starving,  as  some  of  our  Moderate  friends 
and  fearful  supporters  anticipated  that  we  would  be ;  but,  on 
the  contrary,  that  we  really  were  getting  something  to  eat  and 
keep  us  alive.  The  rooms  that  we  occupied  would  only  hold  a 
very  small  part  of  my  furniture,  and  the  bulkiest  and  best  of  it 
was  sent  to  friends'  houses  in  the  neighbourhood.  It  thus 
happened  to  be  in  three  different  parishes,  and  two  different 
counties.     I  used  to  joke  a  good  deal  about  this,  and  speak  ol 

*  Parker  Mss.,  Presb.  of  Gaiioch. 


346  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

my  town  and  two  country  residences,  in  the  one  of  which  I 
could  sit  upon  my  own  chairs,  and  in  the  other  stretch  my  legs 
under  my  own  mahogany.  .  .  .  The  insufficient  accommodation 
in  which  I  and  my  family  were  cooped  up  at  length  produced 
the  inevitable  consequence.  Gastric  fever  broke  out  amongst 
us.  I  escaped  it  myself,  but  I  was  for  six  weeks  prevented 
from  putting  off  my  clothes,  as  some  of  those  who  were  in  the 
fever  needed  constant  attendance  by  night  as  well  as  day.  My 
health,  in  consequence  of  this  night-work  and  want  of  rest, 
together  with  my  anxiety  about  those  who  were  ill,  began  to 
give  way.  The  Eev.  Mr.  Nixon,  of  St.  John's,  Montrose,  on  a 
friendly  visit  which  he  paid  me,  saw  the  state  I  was  in,  and 
resolved  that  it  should  be  endured  no  longer.''  * 

It  is  not  to  be  wondered  at  if,  under  such  a  strain,  painful 
results  frequently  followed.  The  case  of  Mr.  Davidson,  of  Kil- 
malie,  was  formerly  referred  to,  and  the  hardships  under  which 
his  wife's  health  gave  way,  and  her  life  was  ultimately  sacri- 
ficed. Five  times  he  had  to  change  his  temporary  places  of 
residence,  refusing  to  leave  his  people,  though  the  wretched 
accommodation  with  which  he  was  content  was  again  and  again 
taken  from  him.  "  He  was  driven  to  Fort-William,  over  an  arm 
of  the  sea,  which  he  had  to  cross  in  an  open  boat  on  every  occa- 
sion on  which  he  visited  his  people.  .  .  .  The  heart  of  this 
worthy  man  filled,  and  he  burst  into  tears  when  he  spake  of 
his  trials ;  .  .  .  yet  he  makes  little  complaint.  He  expresses 
his  determination  to  remain  by  his  people,  and  even  speaks 
kindly  of  those  that  have  done  him  wrong."  -f  But  the  inevit- 
able consequences  followed.  "  I  was  suddenly  laid  low  with  a 
dangerous  illness,  which  brought  on  a  stroke  of  paralysis,  in 
consequence  of  which  I  was  laid  aside  from  my  work  for  a 
period  of  twelve  months,  during  which  period  my  pulpit  was 
suj)plied  partly  by  the  kindness  of  friends,  and  partly  by  pro- 
bationers appointed  by  the  Church."  I  "  It  was  an  illness," 
says  one  who  knew  him  well,  "  from  which  he  never  thoroughly 
recovered."  § 

*  Memorials  of  Disruption  in  Edzell,  by  the  Rev.  R.  Inglis,  pp.  16, 42. 
t  Free  Church  Mag.  ii.  199.  I  Parker  Mss.,  Presb.  of  Abertarff. 

§  Hovie  mid  Foreign  Missionary  Record,  1872,  p.  57. 


MANSES.  347 

But  not  only  did  disease  enter  these  desolate  homes ;  there 
was  death,  as  the  above  extracts  show.  We  have  recorded  the 
cases  of  Bairdof  Cockburnspath,  and  the  Mackenzies  of  Tongue, 
described  by  Dr.  Guthrie.  Additional  instances  might  still 
be  mentioned,  as,  for  example,  Mr.  Thomson,  of  Peterculter — 
a  young  minister  of  high  promise,  who  was  believed  to  have 
died  of  the  damp  of  an  unhealthy  cottage,  the  only  residence 
he  could  obtain  in  the  midst  of  his  people. 

The  sight  of  such  things  going  on  in  the  country  roused 
men's  feelings.  At  Edzell,  the  condition  of  Mr.  Inglis  and  his 
family  led  to  a  movement,  headed  by  Mr.  Nixon,  in  which 
many  friends  took  part.  Contributions  were  raised  throughout 
the  Synod ;  a  feu  was  purchased  in  the  village,  at  a  price 
beyond  its  value ;  and  a  commodious  cottage  was  built  and 
presented  to  the  minister. 

The  feeling  thus  roused  in  Forfarshire  by  an  individual  case 
was  already  stirring  all  over  the  country.  One  of  the  leading 
elders,  Mr.  Thomson,  of  Banchory,  was  the  first  to  move, 
declaring  in  the  Assembly  of  1844  that  it  was  a  state  of  things 
not  to  be  borne.  A  committee,  consisting  of  none  but  laymen, 
was  appointed  ;  and  a  subscription  list  was  opened,  the  Dowager 
Marchioness  of  Breadalbane  and  Mr.  Campbell,  of  Tilliechewan, 
leading  the  way  with  donations  of  £500  each.  But  while  the 
laity  were  thus  eager,  the  ministers  generally  regarded  the 
movement  as  premature.  Precedence  must  be  given  to  the 
appeals  of  Mr.  Macdonald  and  Dr.  Welsh.  They  therefore  laid 
an  arrest  upon  the  proposed  eflforts,  resolving  that  "  until  the 
Church's  necessary  machinery  was  all  in  working  order  they 
would  not  allow  their  personal  comfort  to  be  consulted."  The 
progress  of  such  movements,  however,  in  those  days  was  rapid. 
Within  a  year  all  that  was  asked  for  those  schemes  had  been 
subscribed,  the  way  was  clear,  and  in  May,  1845,  it  was  felt 
that  the  building  of  manses  must  be  set  about  in  serious  earnest. 

That  the  cause  was  good  no  one  could  doubt,  the  only  thing 
required  was  an  advocate  to  do  for  it  what  Mr.  Macdonald  had 
done  for  the  schools  and  Dr.  Welsh  for  the  college.  A  most  for- 
tunate choice  it  was  when — on  the  suggestion,  it  is  believed,of  Dr. 
Chalmers — Dr.  Guthrie  was  called  to  undertake  the  work.     It 


348  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 

would  be  difficult  to  say  whether  the  cause  was  more  fortunate  in 
its  advocate,  or  the  advocate  in  his  cause.  That  oratory,  of  which 
he  was  a  consummate  master,  could  nowhere  have  found  a  theme 
more  congenial  or  better  fitted  to  call  out  the  powers  with  which 
he  was  gifted,  and  never  could  the  cause  have  found  one  whose 
pleadings  and  appeals  were  so  sure  to  urge  home  its  claims  on 
the  hearts  of  men.  On  the  last  day  of  May,  1845,  he  stood 
before  the  Assembly,  and,  in  the  act  of  accepting  his  commis- 
sion, he  declared  that  for  such  an  object  he  was  prepared  to 
spend  and  be  spent.  "  I  go  forth  on  the  promise  of  God's  Word, 
.  .  .  the  best  guarantee  for  the  goodness  of  a  cause,  and  the 
best  means  of  raising  the  sympathy  of  the  human  heart."  * 

Several  weeks  were  needed  to  make  preparation  for  a  period 
of  absence  so  prolonged,  but  on  the  9th  of  July  all  was  ready, 
and  he  left  to  begin  operations  in  Glasgow.  Dr.  Buchanan 
will  remember,  he  afterwards  said,  he  met  me  at  the  railway 
terminus,  and  saw  me  with  nothing  but  a  flower  in  my  button- 
hole. I  knew  that  I  had  a  good  cause  ;  I  knew  that  I  had 
good  clients.  "  I  showed  no  little  common  sense  in  going  to 
Glasgow  first.  I  understand  very  little  of  music,  but  I  under- 
stand enough  to  know  that  if  you  begin  to  sing  in  a  low  key, 
you  cannot  easily  get  up  to  a  higher  one  ;  and  it  is  with  money 
as  with  music — if  you  begin  on  a  low  key,  you  cannot  get  up 
without  great  difficulty."  -f- 

Very  generously  did  the  friends  of  the  Free  Church  in  that  city 
justify  this  confidence.  At  first,  the  intention  at  headquarters 
had  been  to  raise  £50,000,  but  before  a  single  step  was  taken, 
the  friends  in  Glasgow — prominent  among  whom  was  Professor 
Rainy,  M.D. — earnestly  urged  that  the  sum  aimed  at  should 
be  raised  to  £100,000.  Aided  by  such  hearty  support,  Dr. 
Guthrie  began  his  work ;  and  he  was  soon  able  to  say,  "  I  have 
spent  three  of  the  happiest  days  I  ever  spent  in  my  life  in  this 
city.  I  have  gone  from  house  to  house,  and  from  counting- 
room  to  counting-room,  and  I  have  found  no  cold  looks,  but 
genuine  kindness.  I  have  often  been  told,  '  Oh,  Mr.  Guthrie, 
there  is  no  use  in  making  a  speech.     We  are  quite  prepared 

*  Assembly  Proceedings,  1845.     Edinburgh,  p.  241. 
+  Life  of  Dr.  Guthrie,  vol.  ii.  p.  74. 


MANSES.  349 

for  you,  sir  ;  where's  your  book?'"  The  result  of  these  three 
days  was  just  £10,000  ;  and  he  was  able,  six  weeks  afterwards, 
to  tell  the  Assembly  at  Inverness  that  in  Glasgow  and  its 
neighbourhood  he  had  raised  upwards  of  £35,000.  Cheered  by 
such  success,  Dr.  Guthrie  went  on  his  way  to  encounter  the 
incessant  toil  of  the  next  ten  months,  during  which  "  he  visited 
thirteen  Synods,  fifty-eight  Presbyteries,  and  several  hundreds 
of  separate  congregations,  in  many  cases  preaching  the  Gospel, 
always  making  a  fervent  appeal  of  an  hour  or  more  for  his 
manse  scheme.  In  the  more  important  places  he  spent  the 
following  day  in  making  personal  visits,  subscription-book  in 
hand.  .  .  . 

"  The  speeches  which  Mr.  Guthrie  delivered  during  these 
months  would  of  themselves  fill  a  volume ;  and  although 
the  main  burden  of  them  all  was  necessarily  similar,  one  is 
struck,  in  reading  them,  by  his  versatility  in  adapting  his 
remarks,  pathetic  or  humourous,  to  the  locality,  the  time,  and 
the  class  which  he  addressed."  * 

The  writer  may  be  allowed  to  refer  to  the  only  meeting  of 
the  series  at  which  he  was  personally  present — that  held  at 
Fordouu,  where  Dr.  Guthrie  was  the  guest  of  Captain  Burnet, 
of  Monboddo.  The  district  was  not  far  from  Brechin  and 
Arbirlot.  Dr.  Guthrie  well  knew  the  class  of  people,  and  never 
did  he  show  more  signally  the  rare  power  with  which  he  could 
adapt  himself  to  his  audience,  and  the  resistless  influence  which 
he  wielded,  both  in  the  sermon  and  the  address.  The  result 
greatly  exceeded  his  expectations.  Before  going  to  the  meeting, 
after  dining  at  Monboddo,  he  had  been  "  somewhat  disconcerted 
by  the  evident  flurry  and  annoyance  into  which  Captain  Burnet 
was  thrown  by  the  disappearance  of  a  pair  of  spectacles.  '  Too 
bad  !  too  bad  !'  he  exclaimed  more  than  once  ;  '  these  glasses 
cost  me  fourteen  shillings  last  year  in  London,  and  now  the 
money's  gone.'  This  don't  look  well  for  my  subscription- 
book  to-night,  was  my  mental  reflection,"  added  Dr.  Guthrie, 
in  telling  the  story;  "  if  the  loss  of  a  pair  of  spectacles  be  counted 
so  serious,  how  am  I  to  look  for  £50  ?  But  what  was  my 
surprise  and  delight  when  Captain   Burnet   headed  the   list, 

*  Life  of  Dr.  Guthrie,  vol.  n.  p.  7C. 


350  ANXALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

after  ray  speech,  with  a  subscription  of  £200  to   the  manse 
fund."  * 

Moving  thus  from  place  to  place  all  over  the  country,  and 
raising  contributions  differing  greatly  in  amount,  from  the  mini- 
mum of  £5  up  to  Lord  Breadalbane's  munificent  subscription 
of  £5000,  Dr.  Guthrie  finished  this  great  undertaking  by 
reporting  to  the  Assembly  of  1846  that  he  had  raised 
£116,370  from  6610  subscribers,  being  an  average  of  £19 
from  each.  It  was  a  great  success,  and  all  the  greater 
because  the  money  had  been  freely  and  generously  given. 
"  I  could  bring  before  you,"  he  said,  addressing  the  Assembly, 
"many  instances  in  which  I  have  actually  restrained  people 
from  subscribing,  I  may  mention  one  instance,  which  Mr. 
Buchanan,  of  Glasgow,  will  remember.  He  and  I  waited  upon 
a  lady  in  Glasgow,  and  told  her  that  we  had  come,  not  to 
urge  her  to  give,  but  to  prevent  her,  when  she  was  called  upon, 
from  giving  too  much.  In  fact,  wherever  I  went  I  was  cordially 
received ;  and  I  found  that  I  was  no  beggar  at  all.  I  had  no 
more  to  do  than  to  mention  my  errand,  and  the  people  at  once 
subscribed.  Ours,  sir,  were  the  generous  grapes  which  yield 
the  wine  freely,  and  not  the  husks  to  which  they  need  to  apply 

*  Captain  Burnet  deserves  to  be  remembered  as  one  of  the  very  few 
landed  proprietors  in  Kincardineshire  who  stood  by  the  Free  Church.  Grand- 
son of  the  famous  Lord  Monboddo,  along  with  some  trace  of  eccentricity, 
he  inherited  no  small  share  of  the  family  talent.  For  a  considerable 
number  of  years  he  had  openly  taken  his  stand  on  the  side  of  Christ,  and 
when  the  Disruption  came,  it  seemed  fairly  to  open  his  heart.  Notices 
like  the  following,  which  appeared  from  time  to  time  in  the  local  news- 
papers, showed  what  he  was  : — "  The  Deacons'  Court  of  Laurencekirk  have 
thankfully  to  acknowledge  the  grant  of  £40  from  Captain  Burnet,  of 
Monboddo,  whereby  the  entire  debt  of  their  neat  and  commodious  church 
has  been  extinguished.  This  is  but  one  of  the  many  acts  of  generosity 
which  this  Christian-minded  gentleman  has  done  to  this  and  other  con- 
gregations of  the  Free  Church  in  this  quarter."  Quoted  in  Witness,  9th 
August,  1845.  Dr.  Chalmers,  after  three  days  spent  at  Monboddo  in  1843, 
makes  this  entry  in  his  diary  :  "  I  took  leave,  with  much  feeling,  of  the 
whole  family,  children  and  all.  I  have  been  treated  with  the  greatest 
cordiality,  and  I  owe  nothing  to  the  Captain  but  the  utmost  gratitude 
and  respect.  What  a  difference  it  would  make  in  Scotland  if  we  had  one 
such  as  he  within  every  ten  miles  of  each  other." — Memoirs  of  Dr. 
Chalmers,  vol.  iv.  p.  361. 


MANSES.  351 

the  screw.  So  far  from  pressing,  I  have  often  been  struck 
with  the  way  in  which  many  a  one  put  down  his  subscription  ; 
and  when  my  heart  was  full,  and  I  was  ready  to  say.  Thank 
you,  sir,  many  and  many  a  time  I  have  been  answered,  '  You 
are  not  to  thank  us,  Mr.  Guthrie,  but  we  have  to  thank  you 
for  giving  us  the  opportunity  to  subscribe.' "  * 

The  money  thus  raised  was  energetically  administered  by  the 
committee  of  management.  The  subscriptions  were  spread  over 
five  years,  during  which  the  fund  was  gathered  in  ;  but  before 
the  third  year  had  closed  it  was  reported  that  409  manses  were 
already  built  or  in  progress.  To  each  of  these  the  grant  from 
the  general  fund  was  from  £150  to  £200,  the  rest  being  left  for 
local  subscriptions.  From  year  to  year  the  work  went  forward, 
till  in  1870  Dr.  Buchanan  was  able  to  state  that  719  manses 
had  been  completed,  at  a  cost  of  £467,350. 

This  great  enterprise  thus  successfully  wrought  out  has 
proved  in  every  point  of  view  an  unspeakable  blessing  to  the 
Free  Church. 

It  was  a  welcome  relief  to  the  hearts  of  many  among  the 
laity  when  they  saw  their  ministers  taken  out  of  those  comfort- 
less and  unhealthy  cottages  into  which  they  had  been  driven. 

It  gave  stability  to  the  cause  of  the  Free  Church.  "  The 
very  name  of  a  manse  carries  permanency  with  it.  It  so 
happens,"  said  Dr.  Guthrie,  "  that  I  lately  met  a  man  who  was 
a  keen  opponent  of  the  Free  Church,  and  he  said  that  he 
thought  that  the  Free  Church  was  getting  into  a  highly  danger- 
ous position.  As  long  as  she  merely  built  churches  he  was  not 
afraid  of  her ;  she  was  like  a  vessel  lying  in  a  bay  which  might 
be  driven  out  to  sea  after  all ;  but  if  she  got  manses  too,  she 
would  become  like  a  ship  dropping  anchor,  and  which  there  was 
little  chance  of  driving  back  to  sea  again." 

"  It  added  to  the  comfort  of  the  minister,  supplementing  his 
.stipend  to  the  extent  of  £30  or  £40,  not  rising  or  falling,  but 
fixed  and  sure, 

"  It  strengthened  his  hands  for  ministerial  work  in  the  midst 
of  his  people.  This  was  specially  true  of  the  brethren  in 
country  districts.  On  them  the  burden  and  heat  of  the  day 
*  Assembly  Proceedings,  1846,  p.  189. 


352  AJS'NALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTIOJM.  • 

has  lain.  It  fell  comparatively  little  on  us  who  were  in 
the  town.  .  .  .  We  saw  the  wave  of  the  Disruption  coming 
upon  us — we  faced  it  boldly — it  broke  over  us — and  we  were 
little  the  worse  of  it.  But  it  was  different  in  country  parishes ; 
the  wave  of  the  Disruption  came,  they  saw  it  plainly,  and  they 
■  faced  it  boldly ;  but  it  broke  over  them,  and  left  many  of  them 
amid  the  wreck  of  their  worldly  all.  ...  I  rejoice,  among  other 
things,  that  comfort  is  coming  to  them,  and  that  it  is  not  far 
away." 

There  was  but  one  painful  circumstance  connected  with  all 
this — the  effect  which  the  labours  of  these  months  produced 
on  the  health  of  Dr.  Guthrie.  "  No  one,"  said  Dr.  Buchanan, 
"  who  was  in  any  way  cognisant  of  his  labours,  who  witnessed 
the  energy  with  which  he  threw  his  whole  heart  and  soul  into 
that  movement,  who  had  occasion  to  observe  the  extraordinary 
amount  not  merely  of  mental  energy,  but  of  bodily  strength, 
given  to  that  cause — none  who  is  acquainted  with  these  cir- 
cumstances can  fail  to  trace  no  small  measure  of  the  weakness 
which  henow[1848]  suffers,  tohislaboursonthatgreatoccasiou."* 
As  years  passed  on  these  effects  were  much  alleviated,  and  if 
the  results  of  such  toil  were  never  wholly  removed,  Dr.  Guthrie 
had  at  least  the  satisfaction  of  feeling  that,  though  he  had  spent 
his  strength,  it  was  not  spent  in  vain.  Over  all  broad  Scotland 
there  were  hundreds  of  pleasant  homes,  which,  but  for  that 
Manse  Scheme,  would  never  have  been  built.  The  ministers  of 
the  Free  Church  had  their  comforts  largely  increased,  and,  what 
was  far  more  important,  they  were  enabled  to  live  among  their 
people — having  access  to  the  families  and  doing  the  pastoral 
work — feeding  the  flock  over  which  the  Holy  Ghost  had  made 
them  overseers. 

■*  Assembly  Proceedings,  1848,  p.  271. 


TRIALS  OF  THE  PEOPLE-  353 


XXVIII.  Trials  of  the  People. 

It  is  no  pleasant  task  to  speak  of  the  trials  to  which  so  many 
of  the  people  were  subjected  on  leaving  the  Establishment. 
The  ten  and  a-half  millions  sterling*  which  they  have  contributed 
in  free-will  offerings  to  the  cause  of  their  Church  have  suffi- 
ciently proved  how  deep  and  abiding  their  convictions  must 
have  been  ;  but  not  less  was  this  attested,  even  at  the  outset,  by 
the  steadfastness  with  which  hardships  of  many  different  kinds 
were  unflinchingly  endured. 

The  hostile  feeling  of  adversaries  was  sometimes  seen  in 
matters  of  very  small  account.  "  In  a  parish  by  no  means  so 
far  as  100  miles  from  Cockburnspath,  .  .  .  some  time  ago  a 
small  rustic  bridge,  formed  of  rude  planks  covered  with  turf, 
which  furnished  a  passage  to  the  members  of  the  Free  Church 
over  a  burn  on  their  way  to  their  place  of  worship,  was  found 
one  morning  burned  to  the  water-edge.  As  it  was  discovered 
that  after  this  the  refractory  Free  Church  goers  had  succeeded 
in  getting  across  the  burn  at  a  place  where  it  divided  itself  into 
two  streams,  this  was  ingeniously  prevented  in  all  time  coming 
by  converting  the  two  streams  into  one."  f 

At  Roslin,  Mr.  Brown  preached  from  a  tent  in  the  old  Eomau 
Catholic  burying-ground  for  eighteen  successive  Sabbaths.  On 
one  of  the  Sabbaths  "  three  elderly  men,  having  the  appearance 
of  gentlemen,  visited  Koslin,  and  spent  the  day  in  a  variety  of 
amusements,  and  having  dined  at  the  inn,  they  went  to  the  old 
graveyard  and  overturned  the  tent,  left  it  lying  in  fragments, 
and  then  left  in  great  haste  for  Edinburgh."  .t 

*  The  exact  sum  in  1874  was  ;£10,723,102,  15s.  lid. 
t    JVitness,  2nd  August,  1845. 

:;  Paper  by  the  Eev.  LIr.  Brown,  Parker  Mss.,  Presb.  of  DalkeitL 

2  A 


354  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

"  There  is  a  certain  southern  parish,  where  the  Free  Church 
people  gathered  from  great  distances,  in  a  thinly  peopled 
district,  for  public  worship.  The  summer  of  184<3  was  warm 
and  dry,  and  that  congregation  found  untold  comfort  in  a  fine 
spring  of  cool  delicious  water,  which  issued  from  a  bank  by  the 
roadside,  near  their  place  of  meeting.  This  was  observed.  The 
proprietor  of  the  soil  had  a  drain  dug,  and  cut  off  the  spring. 
Such  things  are  remembered  still."  * 

These  annoyances,  after  all,  were  of  little  importance  ;  but  soon 
matters  took  a  more  serious  form.  Sometimes  the  trial  came 
in  the  shape  of  threats,  by  landlords,  and  factors,  and  employers 
attempting  to  establish  somethiug  like  a  reign  of  terror. 

"Immediately  after  the  Disruption,"  says  Mr.  Forbes,  of 
Woodside,  "  the  female  collectors  who  worked  at  the  cotton 
factory  were  told  that  if  they  continued  to  act  in  that  capacity 
they  would  be  dismissed  from  their  work.  Others,  accordingly, 
took  their  places,  until  the  indignation  of  the  parties  in  question 
somewhat  cooled,  which  it  soon  did."  •)* 

"  One  of  my  heritors  [at  Lesmahagow]  met  a  working-man,  who 
was  the  proprietor  of  a  single  tenement,  and  said  to  him,  'Peter, 
if  you  join  these  Free  Church  folks,  you  will  lose  your  house — 
all  will  be  taken  from  you  to  pay  law  expenses.'  The  plain 
working-man  was  somewhat  disconcerted  by  this  appeal  to  his 
fears,  and  forthwith  repeated  the  matter  to  his  wife,  who  had  a 
firmer  faith.  She  encouraged  her  husband,  and  said,  'Never 
mind,  Peter ;  just  say  to  the  gentleman,  better  lose  our  house 
than  lose  our  souls.'  "  ^ 

Dr.  Simpson,  of  Kintore,  states  :  "Both  the  principal  heritors 
were  avowedly  hostile,  but  they  never  directly  interfered  with 
the  members  of  the  Free  Church,  so  far  as  is  known  to  me. 
Very  unscrupulous  use,  however,  was  made  of  the  late  Lord 

Kintore's  name  by ,  who  did  all  he  could  to  intimidate  the 

smaller  tenants.  Grievous  complaints  of  this  interference  were 
made  to  me  by  several  of  the  parties  thus  heartlessly — and,  as  I 
believe,  without  authority — assailed  and  threatened.  Though 
most  of  the  people  stood  firm  under  these  attacks,  there  can 

*  Life  of  Dr.  Cunningham,  p.  194. 
t  Disr.  Mss.  xxvii.  p.  11.  J  Disr.  Mss.  xxxi.  p.  20. 


TRIALS  OF  THE  PEOPLE.  355 

be  no  doubt  that  some  timid  persons  gave  way  before  the 
temptation."  * 

"  I  know  of  one  instance,"  said  Mr.  Garment,  of  Rosskeen, 
"  in  which  a  pious  parishioner  in  the  North  was  willing  to 
accommodate  her  pastor  and  his  family  in  her  house.  She  was 
told  that  if  she  did  so  it  would  be  to  her  hurt.  Her  answer 
was,  '  Well,  I  cannot  help  it,  although  it  be  to  my  hurt — 
although  you  should  send  me  to  jail  for  it.  I  must  and  will 
receive  that  servant  of  the  Lord.' "  f 

In  one  of  the  rural  districts  of  a  southern  parish  there  lived  a 
poor  woman  on  the  barony  of  the  chief  resident  heritor.  "  She 
alone  of  all  the  people  on  the  estate  joined  the  Free  Church. 
Of  course,  such  a  bold  step  was  instantly  marked  by  him  who 
seemed  resolved  that  there  should  be  but  one  conscience  in  all 
the  barony.  A  message  was  openly  sent  through  her  son,  given 
to  him  by  the  proprietor's  own  lips  in  the  midst  of  a  number  of 
workmen  engaged  on  a  bridge,  for  the  purpose,  I  suppose,  of 
striking  terror  into  all,  '  that  her  husband  (he  was  then  upwards 
of  fourscore  years  of  age)  must  seek  another  house  at  the  term, 
if  his  wife  did  not  cease  going  to  the  Free  Church.'  In  the 
house  to  which  this  message  was  brought  there  lived  at  the 
time  the  patriarch  of  upwards  of  eighty  years  and  his  little 
grandchild — the  fifth  generation  in  the  house  and  on  the 
property.  When  the  message  was  given  in  the  evening,  the 
spirited  woman  said  to  her  husband,  '  Wattie,  it's  now  come 
to  this — we  must  decide  between  keeping  this  house  and  getting 
a  right  and  a  readiness  for  the  house  not  made  with  hands, 
eternal  in  the  heavens.'  '  Aweel,  then,'  said  the  old  patriarch, 
'  the  thing's  soon  decided — gang  where  your  conscience  bids  ; 
I  would  gang  wi'  ye,  if  I  could  gang  onywhere.  He  whom  we 
seek  to  serve  will  aye  keep  some  house  abune  our  heads  as  laug 
as  we're  here.'  She  went,  as  usual,  in  the  face  of  the  proprietor 
and  all  his  dependents.  She  abides  in  the  house.  It  was  too 
strong  a  step  to  take  in  the  light  of  day,  to  turn  out  the  oldest 
residenters  on  the  property,  the  more  especially  as  the  old  man 
Boon  took  his  last  illness." 

*  Parker  Mss.,  Paper  by  Rev.  Dr.  Simpson,  Kintore. 
t   Witness,  4th  November,  1843. 


356  ANNALS  OP  THE  DISRUPTION. 

But  these  threats  were  not  confined  to  labourers  and  domes- 
tics. Farmers  also  were  to  be  influenced — sometimes  indirectly, 
and  at  other  times  by  distinct  warnings. 

Mr.  Brown,  of  Largo,  refers  to  certain  of  his  heritors  whose 
object  was  to  discountenance  the  members  of  the  Free  Church. 
"  They  were  threatened  with  the  loss  of  employment,  and  tenants 
who  were  in  arrears  with  the  loss  of  all  favour,  and  no  doubt 
there  were  those  of  both  classes  earnest  supporters  of  the  Free 
Church  who  had  come  out,  and  yet  afterwards  returned  to  the 
Establishment  for  such  reasons."  * 

"  Different  cases  of  intimidation  exercised  on  the  part  of  land- 
lords towards  their  tenants  have  been  mentioned  to  me.  One 
landlord  intimated  to  the  farmers  on  his  estate  that  it  would  be 
for  their  advantage  to  have  nothing  to  do  with  the  Free  Church 
and  that  they  should  remain,  like  himself,  where  they  were."-f- 

In  another  district  the  intimation  was  made  more  distinctly, 
in  a  different  way.  "  There  lives,  west  from  Stirling,  but  not 
within  ten  miles  of  the  Parliamentary  burgh,  a  certain  landed 
proprietor,  who  has  been  receiving  rent  from  his  tenants.^  At 
this  audit,  as  it  is  called  in  England,  a  strange  scene  happened. 
When  a  tenant  appeared  who  still  adhered  to  the  Kirk,  he  was 
received  with  a  cheerful  countenance  and  a  hearty  shake  of 
the  hand,  and  10  per  cent,  of  his  rent  was  returned,  with  best 
wishes  that  it  might  prosper  in  his  hands.  But  when  a  luck- 
less wight  {:j  made  his  appearance  who  had  adhered  to  the  Free 
Church,  the  landlord  left  the  room,  and  the  tenant  had  his  rent  to 
pay  to  the  factor,  who  had  no  authority  to  return  him  one  farthing, 
but  he  must  pay  the  whole  sum,  plack  and  bawbee,  without  one 
single  smile  from  the  dignitary,  or  one  wish  for  his  prosperity.",! 

When  Mr.  M'Leod,  of  Maryborough,  went  to  preach  among  the 
parishes  of  Strathspey,  the  state  of  matters  was  such  as  is  diffi- 
cult to  conceive  of.  The  opposition  came  from  hostile  local 
officials,  urged  on  by  the  clergy  of  the  Established  Church,  and 
"  manifested  itself  in  every  shape  and  form.  The  tents  erected 
in  the  open  air  for  his  preaching  were  often  thrown  down  at 
night,  the  people  were  interfered  with  on  the  high  roads  when 

*  Disr.  Mss.  xiv.  %  Mr.  Stirling,  of  Garden, 

t  Disr.  Mss.  xxxi.  p.  17.  §  Alexander  Blair,  elder,  F.C.,  Gurtmore. 

II  iritness,  29th  July,  1843. 


TKIALS  OF  THE  PEOPLE.  357 

assembling  for  public  worship,  every  species  of  annoyance  was 
resorted  to,  from  low  threats  and  insinuations  to  gross  mis- 
representations in  the  public  prints.  Factors  visited  tenants, 
exhibiting  a  document  called  the  black  list,  to  inform  them 
that  they  were  taking  up  the  names  of  all  that  would  attend 
the  Free  Church,  to  be  produced  at  the  expiry  of  their  leases. 
Shop-keepers  were  told  that  they  would  forfeit  the*  custom  and 
countenance  of  the  wealthy  and  influential  in  the  country. 
Servants  of  every  description  holding  situations,  from  the  local 
manager  or  grieve  down  to  the  herd,  were  threatened  with 
deprivation  of  office  and  service.  Feuars  who  signified  their 
intention  to  grant  ground  for  the  Free  Church  congregation  to 
worship  on,  had  their  charters  demanded  and  their  rights  ques- 
tioned. Wood  merchants  were  interfered  with  for  selling  wood 
for  any  Free  Church  purpose."  * 

Such  threats  were  not  uttered  without  the  full  intention  of 
carrying  them  into  efi'ect.  "I  saw  two  servants  in  livery  at  the 
tent,"  says  Hugh  Miller.    "  They  are,  I  have  been  told,  domestics 

of ,  a  fierce  Intrusionist,  and  have  been  warned  to  quit  his 

service  at  the  term  for  their  adherence  to  the  Free  Church."-|- 

"  Only  yesterday,  we  heard  of  a  most  respectable  aged  widow 
who  had  been  just  turned  away  from  her  employment  by  the 
factor  of  a  south-country  nobleman,  and,  after  a  lifetime  of 
hard  service  on  the  estate,  thrown  on  the  charity  of  a  married 
daughter,  solely  on  the  ground  that  she  had  allowed  the  wor- 
ship of  God  to  be  conducted  in  her  house  by  a  Free  Church 
minister."  ^ 

"  I  know  an  instance  in  which  a  servant  was  turned  off  for 
no  other  reason  than  his  adherence  to  the  Free  Church.  When 
he  asked  his  master  if  he  bad  not  always  proved  a  faithful  ser- 
vant to  him,  what  was  his  master's  reply  ?  '  Oh  yes,  you  have 
always  proved  a  faithful,  honest  servant,  but  I  cannot  keep 
you  if  you  will  not  leave  those  ministers.'  '  Sir,'  retorted  the 
servant,  *  if  I  give  up  my  conscience  for  food  and  clothing,  you 
could  trust  but  little  to  my  honesty.'  "  § 

•  Parker  Mss.,  Statement  by  Rev.  jVIr.  M'Leod,  p.  5. 

t  Life,  vol.  ii.  p.  384.  J   Witness,  23rd  September,  1843. 

§    Witness,  4th  Noveiuber,  1843,  Mr.  Carmeut. 


358  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 

"  Our  difficulties,"  says  Mr.  Taylor,  of  Flisk,  Fifeshire,  "  came 
thick  upon  us  ;  many  of  the  neighbouring  proprietors  were 
roused  to  opposition  by  the  extent  of  the  movement.  Mr. 
,  of ,  prevented  his  cottars  and  dependants  from  wor- 
shipping with  us,  and  those  who  were  resolute  in  their  adher- 
ence he  dismissed  from  his  grounds  and  service,  ostensibly  for 
other  reasons,  but  this  was  known  to  be  the  real  one.  He 
traces  his  lineal  descent  from  Claverhouse."  * 

"  The  spirit  of  the  Moderates,"  again  writes  Hugh  Miller, 
from  Cromarty,  "  in  this  part  of  the  country  is  bitterness  itself. 
Servants  dismissed,  labourers  thrown  out  of  employment,  angry 
interviews  between  landlord  and  tenant — we  hear  of  little  else 
in  this  corner."  -f* 

But  the  extent  to  which  all  this  was  carried  may  perhaps  be 
best  learned  from  a  statement  of  Mr.  Hamilton,  convener  of 
the  Building  Committee,  when  giving  in  his  report  in  May, 
1844  : — "  The  committee  do  not  intend  at  present  to  bring  for- 
ward details.  .  .  .  They  will  only  select  as  a  specimen  a  single 
sentence,  contained  in  a  letter  lately  received  from  a  most  respect- 
able minister,  who,  speaking  of  his  own  parish,  says:  'About  fifty 
servants  and  day-labourers,  several  of  them  with  weak  families 
and  destitute  of  means,  have  been  dismissed  and  thrown  out  of 
employment,  and  everything  done  against  them  to  render  their 
adherence  bitter.  Yesterday,  in  addition  to  the  servants  removed 
at  last  term,  about  twenty  more,  with  their  families,  were  served 
with  summonses  of  removal  for  supporting  and  attending  the 
Free  Church  ;  while  such  as  agree  to  oppose  it  are  called  from 
distant  parishes  to  supply  their  places,  and  are  encouraged 
and  protected,  whatever  character  they  bear.'  "  | 

There  was  much  to  regret  in  the  state  of  society  which  all 
this  was  fitted  to  produce ;  but  in  every  part  of  Scotland  there 
are  stories  innumerable  of  how  fearlessly  the  old  Scottish 
spirit  of  independence  rose  to  resist  such  attempts  at  oppres- 
sion, showing  at  the  same  time  the  enlightened  attachment  of  the 
people  to  what  they  believed  to  be  the  cause  of  God  and  of  truth. 

For  the  most  part,  the  resistance  was  as  quiet  as  it  was  firm. 

*  Disr.  Ms3.  xxxvii.  p.  11.  t  Life,  vol.  ii.  p.  376. 

X  Assembly  Proceedings,  1844,  p.  229. 


TRIALS  OF  THE  PEOPLE.  359 

Mr.  Middleton  of  Torosay,  Mull,  writes  :  "  In  the  year  1843 

I  was   treating  with  Colonel  about   a  farm;    and  when 

speaking  of  the  sheep  stock  upon  it,  I  got  a  plain  enough  hint 
that  it  might  be  mine  were  I  to  leave  off  certain  divisive 
courses,  as  some  termed  the  Free  Church  movement.  But  I 
was  enabled  through  grace  to  resist,  and  have  had  no  cause  to 
repent  since,  either  on  the  score  of  principle  or  of  w6rldly  profit ; 
for  by  following  the  path  of  duty  I  have  had  a  clear  con- 
science, and  Providence  has  since  prospered  me  in  my  worldly 
circumstances  more  than  during  any  previous  period  of  my 
life."* 

At  Latheron,  where  the  people  had  stood  out  against  all  hostile 
influence,  the  leading  heritor,  who  was  "  highest  in  rank  as  well 
as  in  zeal  for  Moderatism,  resolved  to  make  one  more  attempt 
before  yielding.  His  farm-grieve,  who  was  also  manager  of  his 
extensive  estate,  had  been  with  him  for  a  great  many  years — 
probably  not  less  than  twenty — and  on  his  services  he  placed 
the  highest  possible  value ;  but  he  having  adhered  to  the  Free 
Church,  it  might  perhaps  be  supposed  that  his  examjile  had 
influenced  the  other  servants  and  tenants  also,  so  it  was 
resolved  to  select  him  for  the  first  assault.  One  day,  there- 
fore, his  master  called  him,  and  having  stated  how  much 
annoyed  he  was  that  he  and  all  the  other  servants  and  tenants 
had  left  the  good  old  Kirk,  how  long  they  had  been  together, 
and  how  well  pleased  and  satisfied  he  always  had  been  with 
him,  he  added,  '  I  fear  this  foolish  breach  will  be  the  means 
of  separating  us,  unless  you  come  back  to  the  Kirk  ;  for  it  will 
never  do  for  me  and  you  to  be  going  to  different  kirks ;  so 
think  of  it  and  come  with  me,  and  we  will  continue  good 
friends,  as  we  have  always  been.'  The  poor  grieve  Avas,  of 
course,  taken  a  little  by  surprise ;  but,  being  a  man  of  good 
sense  and  resolution,  as  well  as  firmness,  he  at  length  said  that 
he  was  sorry  that  his  honour — for  he  was  an  honourable — had 
thought  of  interfering  in  a  matter  of  this  kind ;  that  they 
certainly  had  been  long  together;  that  he  felt  he  had  endea- 
voured to  serve  him  faithfully  to  the  best  of  his  ability,  and 
was  willing  to  do  so  still;  but  that  if  this  was  to  depend  on  his 

*  Disr.  Mss.  ix.  p.  4. 


360  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

joining  the  Establishment  in  its  now  altered  state,  he  was  quite 
ready,  rather  than  do  so,  to  leave  his  honour's  service  at  the 
first  term.  This  decided  and  suitable  reply  settled  the  whole 
matter,  and  saved  the  other  servants  from  being  interfered 
with ;  for  the  grieve's  services  were  too  valuable  to  be  dis- 
pensed with,  and  he  was  never  again  questioned  on  the 
subject."  * 

"  Mr. ,  who  held  an  extensive  sheep-farm  in  one  of  the 

parishes  of  Sutherland,  was  very  desirous  that  all  in  his  employ- 
ment should  adliere  to  the  Establishment.  One  day  in  the 
summer  of  1843,  when  his  shepherds  had  occasion  to  meet 
at  sheep-washing  or  sheep-shearing,  he  rode  up  to  the  place, 
accompanied  by  his  son ;  and,  addressing  "  the  manager,"  said 
that  he  had  brought  a  paper  for  them  all  to  sign.  He  was 
going  to  a  distant  part  of  his  farm,  and  would  call  for  it  on  his 
return,  when  he  expected  to  find  that  all  had  signed  it.  The 
paper  contained  the  following  declaration — "  We,  the  under- 
signed, adhere  to  the  Established  Church  of  Scotland."  •}-   When 

Mr. and  his  son  had  left,  the  manager  (an  excellent  and 

very  intelligent  man),  addressed  the  shepherds — "Well,  men, 
I  know  what  I'll  do;  but  don't  let  me  influence  you.  What 
do  you  say  ?  Will  you  sign?"  An  emphatic  and  unanimous 
"  No  !"  was  the  reply.  "  Well,  but,"  continued  the  manager, 
"  don't  you  think  that  it  would  be  more  respectful  to  sign  some- 
thing, rather  than  to  return  the  paper  blank  ?"  and,  turning  up 
the  other  side  of  the  paper,  he  wrote — "  We,  the  undersigned, 
adhere  to  the  Free  Church  of  Scotland."  This  he  himself 
signed  first,  and  then  all  the  shepherds  adhibited  their  names. 

When  Mr. and  his  son  rode  back,  he  asked  the  manager 

— "  Well,  is  that  paper  signed  by  you  all  ?"  "  Yes,  sir,"  replied 
the  manager.     "  We  have  all  signed  it,  but  on  the  other  side." 

Mr. turned  the  paper  round,  examined  it  silently,  pocketed 

it,  and  rode  off  without  uttering  a  word.  He  never  afterwards 
gave  the  slightest  annoyance  to  any  of  his  shepherds  because 
of  their  adherence  to  the  Free  Church."  \ 

*  Parker  Mss.,  Paper  by  Rev.  Mr.  Davidson,  p.  16. 

t  Then  followed  the  signatures  of  Mr. and  his  son. 

J  Communicated  by  the  Pi.ev.  A.  M'Gillivray,  Koseburn,  Edinburgh. 


TEIALS  OF  THE  PEOPLE.  361 

Sometimes  the  interference  was  not  only  resisted,  but  resented 
as  unrighteous.  Lord  Kinnoull,  with  whom  the  fatal  Auchter- 
aider  litigation  originated,  was  not  content  with  doing  battle  in 
the  civil  courts,  but,  aided  by  a  zealous  factor,  he  carried  the 
war  among  his  own  dependants  and  day-labourers.  The  following 
will  illustrate  the  spirit  of  the  time  : — During  the  Ten  Years' 
Conflict,  Church-defence  associations  were  formed  in  many 
parishes,  one  of  the  objects  being  to  raise  funds  to  meet  the 
expenses  of  litigation,  deputations,  &c.,  needful  during  the  con- 
troversy. One  of  these  associations  was  formed  in  Aberdalgie, 
Perthshire,  under  the  direction  of  the  parish  minister.  This 
soon  reached  the  ears  of  the  factor,  who  endeavoured  to  put  a 
stop  to  it  by  threatening  with  ejection  from  his  lordship's  service 
all  who  should  subscribe  to  any  such  fund.  The  following  con- 
versation took  place  "  between  the  factor  and  the  only  surviving 
elder  of  the  parish,  as  it  was  reported  to  the  minister  by  the 
elder  himself: — 

"  Factor.  I  hear  the  minister  is  raising  money  by  subscrip- 
tion from  the  parishioners.  Why  is  he  doing  this  ?  Into  whose 
pocket  does  the  money  go  ? 

"  Elder.  I  understand  it  is  for  the  purpose  of  defraying  the 
expenses  of  publishing  information  among  the  people  on  the 
Non-intrusion  controversy. 

"  F.  Do  you  subscribe  to  the  funds,  David  ? 

"  E.  Yes,  sir,  I  do. 

"  J^.  Do  you  know  if  any  of  Lord  Kinnoull's  work-people  or 
retainers  subscribe  to  this  scheme  of  the  minister  ? 

"  E.  Yes,  I  do  ;  almost  all  of  them  are  subscribers  to  it. 

"  F.  Will  you  give  me  their  names,  as  they  are  not  to  be 
allowed  to  continue  in  his  lordship's  employment  if  they 
subscribe. 

"  E.  You  can  ask  themselves,  sir,  as  you  have  asked  me. 

"  F.  Oh  yes,  to  be  sure  I  can ;  but  it  would  save  me  trouble 
if  you  were  to  mention  them. 

"  E.  Am  I  to  understand  that  because  I  am  a  subscriber  to 
the  Church  Defence  Fund,  you  intimate  now  to  me  that  I  am 
dismissed  from  Lord  Kinnoull's  service  ? 

"  F.  Not  just  yet ;  I'll  give  you  timely  warning  of  your  dismissal. 

"  E.  Perhaps  it  will  save  his  lordship  and  you  the  trouble  of 
doing  so,  if  I  inform  you  now  that  it  is  my  intention  to  leave 
his  lordship's  service  at  next  term. 

"  F.  Oh,  very  well 


362  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

"  The  elder  Here  referred  to  was  house-carpenter  to  the  Earl 
of  Kinnoull,  a  godly  man.  .  .  .  The  old  man  died  in  1872  at  an 
advanced  age,  in  his  native  parish  of  Forgandenny,  beloved  and 
respected  as  a  Christian  man,  and  an  elder  of  the  Free  Church."* 

A  similar  spirit  was  exhibited  in  a  case  which  occurred  farther 
south,  where  conscience  was  attempted  to  be  overborne.  The 
lady  to  whom  a  large  part  of  the  parish  belonged  "  had  a  superior 
servant  as  forester,  who  had  been  born  and  brought  up  on  the 
property,  and  was  the  special  favourite  of  her  late  husband,  by 
whom  he  was  respected  and  trusted  in  everything.  He  had 
the  boldness  to  join  the  Free  Church.  The  factor,  who  knew 
his  worth,  came  to  him,  and  told  him  that  the  step  had  given 
the  deepest  displeasure,  and  that  if  he  did  not  return  to  the 
Establishment,  he  would  certainly  lose  his  place,  her  resentment 
was  so  great.  '  This  comes  well  from  her,  who  is  a  dissenter 
herself,  and  doing  more  to  ruin  the  Establishment,  by  building 
an  Episcopalian  chapel,  than  anybody  else.  But  you  may  tell 
her,  if  she  thinks  I  will  make  a  worse  servant  by  trying  to  be 
a  servant  of  God  according  to  my  own  conscience,  I  am  as 
ready  to  part  with  her  as  she  can  be  to  part  with  me.'  He  was 
too  good  a  servant,  and  too  indispensable  to  the  property,  to  be 
dismissed.  Though  all  the  wonted  marks  of  favour  were  with- 
drawn, he  was  continued  in  his  place." 

It  must  not,  however,  be  supposed  that,  in  all  cases,  this 
spirit  of  hostility  failed  to  reach  its  victims.  John  Smith  was 
the  Marquis  of  Bute's  head-gardener  at  Mount  Stuart.  He 
was  a  remarkable  man  of  God,  of  whom  William  Burns  says, 
"  His  memory  was  sweet  to  many,  and  to  me  also,  ...  as  I  had 
often  enjoyed  the  solemn  privilege  of  visiting  his  abode,  and 
being  benefited  by  his  heavenly  converse  and  prayers."  At  the 
Disruption  he  was  cast  out  of  his  situation  for  following  the  Free 
Church.  He  had  held  many  meetings  for  prayer  at  Kilchattan 
Bay,  and  when  debarred  by  the  factor  from  the  people's  houses, 
he  hired  a  room  in  the  inn,  and  met  them  there.  "  He  was  in 
the  act  of  beginning  one  of  these  meetings  when  the  letter  was 
put  into  his  hands  which  dismissed  him  from  his  place."  In 
184(J   Mr.  Burns  found  his  widow  at  Eothesay,  in  a  cottage 

*  Disr.  Mss.  xl. 


TRIALS  OF  THE  PEOPLE,  3g3 

which  he  had  built  in  the  midst  of  a  garden,  rented  and  culti- 
vated in  his  last  days  for  his  support.  She  was  unwell  and  in 
difficulties,  as  her  husband  had  always  been  open-handed, 
saying,  the  Marquis  would  not  see  him  want.  Mr.  Burns  was 
able  to  give  assistance  for  the  time  by  handing  over  "  a  few 
pounds  "  which  the  people  had  raised  for  himself,  but  which  he 
said  he  doubted  not  God  intended  for  her.  "  She  wept  as  she 
received  it."  * 

One  of  the  most  painful  parts  of  this  painful  subject  was 
the  treatment  to  which  paupers  were  subjected,  in  the  attempt 
to  use  the  poor's  funds  as  a  means  of  overbearing  their  con- 
science, and  forcing  them  in  their  helplessness  to  attend  the 
Established  Church.  A  general  statement  on  this  point  was 
made  by  Mr.  Dunlop  at  the  Assembly  of  1844  : — "  It  seems 
that  in  some  instances  poor  people,  influenced  by  the  common 
sympathy  which  has  been  so  generally  evinced  towards  the 
Free  Church,  have  been  desirous  to  share  the  privilege  of  con- 
tributing their  mite — the  merest  trifle — at  the  sacrifice  of  some 
little  thing  which  they  call  a  luxury,  such  as  tobacco,  and 
thus  be  enabled  to  put  a  halfpenny  into  the  plate  on  collection 
day.  .  ,  .  We  do  not  ask  these  contributions,  by  any  means,  nor 
do  we  expect  them ;  but  it  would  be  a  cruelty  to  refuse  to  take 
anything  when  ofiered  in  the  feeling  that  accompanies  them. 
Well,  inquiries  are  in  many  cases  now  instituted,  whether  or 
not  the  poor  people  give  anything  in  this  shape  to  the  Free 
Church,  or  to  any  other  congregation  with  which  they  are  con- 
nected, and  it  has  been  proposed  by  the  h.eritors  that  in  any 
case  where  a  pauper  is  found  to  contribute  to  the  Free  Church 
he  shall  be  cut  off  the  roll."-}- 

At  Lairg,  Sutherlandshire,  they  fell  on  an  ingenious  device. 
The  day  of  the  sacramental  fast  of  the  Free  Church  was 
appointed  as  the  day  for  the  yearly  distribution  of  poor's  money. 
Few  of  the  paupers  attended,  and  such  as  did  not  attend,  received 
no  allowance.! 

*  See  the  full  account  in  the  Life  of  Rev.  W.  C.  Burns,  pp.  320,  321. 
t  Assembly  Proceedings,  1844,  p.  151. 
X  Witness,  2nd  September,  1843. 


364  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

Individual  cases  of  refusal  and  of  threats  are  spoken  of  as 
occurring  in  various  parts  of  the  country. 

At  Gartly,  owing  to  "  the  hostility  of  the  Duke  of  Richmond — 
the  sole  proprietor  of  the  parish — and  his  factors,  together  with 
the  means  used  by  some  of  the  Moderates  in  the  parish  (a  small 
minority,  but  influential  in  point  of  worldly  status)  with  those 
who  wanted  strength  of  principle,  not  a  few  who  subscribed 
their  adherence  to  the  Church  were  induced  to  draw  back." 
Mr.  Robertson  mentions  the  case  of  "  an  old  woman — a  pauper, 
who  was  imbecile — she  was  threatened  that  if  she  continued  a 
hearer  of  the  Free  Church  she  would  get  no  allowance  from  the 
poor's  fund.     Well,  well,  she  replied,  I'll  follow  Christ."  * 

In  another  locality  we  are  told :  "  Even  the  paupers  were  not 
thought  beneath  the  arts  of  some  of  the  heritors.  At  their 
meetings,  and  in  the  act  of  administering  public  funds  drawn 
from  all  parties,  some  of  them  insisted  upon  knowing  whether 
the  poor  persons  went  to  the  Free  Church,  and  whether  they 
gave  anything  to  its  funds,  with  looks  and  tones  which  left  a 
very  distinct  impression  that  all  in  such  connection  would  be 
deprived  of  their  legal  allowance.  All  the  paupers,  accordingly, 
with  the  exception  of  a  very  few,  remain  in  the  Establishment. 
The  following  fact  may  be  relied  upon.  It  was  told  by  the 
young  woman  who  is  all  but  siUy,  yet  a  real  saint  withal.  The 
heritors'  clerk,  who  managed  the  small  property  on  which  she 
usually  worked,  came  to  her  one  day,  and  said  that  unless  she 
ceased  to  attend  the  Free  Church,  the  work  would  be  taken 
from  her;  and  not  only  so,  but  the  aliment  from  her  old  widowed 
bed-rid  mother,  one  of  the  paupers,  who  lived  with  her.  Her 
reply  was,  she  could  not  help  them  doing  what  they  liked  with 
her  mother  and  her  ;  there  was  One  who  would  take  care  of 
them.  One  thing  only  she  had  to  care  for,  and  that  was  to 
gang  where  her  Master  bid  her." 

At  Errol,  Dr.  Grierson  states :  "  It  is  painful  to  add  that 
there  have  been  instances  in  which  the  private  gratuities 
distributed  to  the  poor  at  the  time  of  Christmas  were  rigidly 
withheld  from  those  individuals,  however  destitute,  who  attended 
my  ministrations.  .  .  .  Their  reply  was.  Well,  poor  as  we  are, 
*  Disr.  j\Iss.  xvii.  p.  3. 


TEIALS  OF  THE  PEOPLE.  365 

we  will  not  sell  our  consciences  for  a  peck  of  meal  or  a  firlot 
of  coals."  * 

"  I  felt  the  utmost  indignation,  not  long  ago,"  says  Dr.  Begg, 
"when  a  devout  old  woman  came  into  my  house  and  told  me 
the  following  tale.  She  said  that  she  and  her  ancestors  had 
been  servants  in  the  family  of  a  nobleman  for  many  generations 
— she  was  above  seventy — but  the  other  night,  said  she,  I 
allowed  a  preacher  of  the  Free  Church  to  come  into  my  house 
and  conduct  the  worship  of  God,  and  next  morning,  at  ten 
o'clock,  I  was  dismissed  from  my  employment,  and  I  am  now 
houseless  and  destitute  in  the  world."  -f- 

Thus  among  the  very  humblest  ranks  of  society  the  spirit  of 
hostOity  sought  to  overbear  the  consciences  of  those  who  seemed 
to  be  defenceless.  But  it  is  strange  to  observe  how  some  of 
the  highest  and  noblest  in  the  land  were  subjected  to  similar 
treatment. 

In  June,  1845,  the  Duchess  of  Gordon  wrote  :  "  I  believe  you 
judge  very  truly,  that  the  honour  from  man  I  have  so  long 
enjoyed  and  cherished  will  be  much  withdrawn."  "  The  penalty 
for  worshipping  Christ  was  no  longer  to  be  summoned  before 
the  judges,  and  to  be  fined  like  her  ancestor.  Lady  MaryBrodie; 
but  it  was  to  stand  on  a  pinnacle  alone,  bearing  His  reproach. 
To  give  a  single  instance :  she  had  a  visit  from  Lord  Aberdeen, 
who,  after  the  controversy  had  terminated  in  the  Disruption, 
was  most  liberal  in  his  own  district  in  granting  sites  and  other- 
wise, but  was  naturally  vexed  at  the  new  position  taken  by  the 
Duchess.  He  reasoned  with  her  earnestly  on  the  line  of  conduct 
she  had  adopted ;  and  when  his  arguments  failed,  he  remon- 
strated with  a  warmth  unlike  the  usual  amiableness  of  his 
disposition,  and  the  extreme  courtesy  of  his  manners.  But  the 
able  statesman  mistook  his  gentle  hostess  when  he  hoped  to 
turn  her  from  her  course  by  strong  representations,  unsupported 
by  convincing  arguments.  The  Duchess  felt  the  interview 
more  keenly  than  almost  any  incident  that  we  have  ever  seen 
cross  her  path.  But,  like  the  taunt  of  Methodism  in  earlier 
years,  it  only  tended  to  root  her  more  deeply  in  her  own  convic- 

*  Errol.     Disr.  Mss.  xi.  p.  17. 

■<■  Assembly  Proceedings,  184^,  p.  153. 


366  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

tions,  and  to  make  her  advance  more  boldly  in  the  way  she 
had  chosen."  * 

There  is  a  form  of  trial  witli  which  it  is  difficult  to  deal 
— those  family  divisions,  so  delicate  in  themselves,  and  so 
painfu'l  in  their  results,  which  men  sought  naturally  to  bury 
out  of  sight.  From  the  Mss.  we  select  two  cases,  in  illustration 
of  what  was  only  too  common  in  the  land.  They  occurred  in 
parts  of  the  country  far  apart  from  each  other  ;  and  we  not  only 
suppress  all  reference  to  names  and  places,  but  we  shall  avoid 
even  the  language  in  which  they  are  recorded. 

At  a  distance  from  Edinburgh  there  lived  a  proprietor,  in 
whose  family  there  was  a  favourite  daughter.  Immediately 
before  the  Disruption,  she  had  been  awakened  and  brought  to 
the  saving  knowledge  of  Christ,  under  a  series  of  sermons  which 
accidentally,  as  men  would  say,  she  had  the  opportunity  of 
hearing  in  an  unexpected  way.  As  the  minister  whose  words 
had  reached  her  heart  was  one  of  those  who  afterwards  formed 
the  Free  Church,  she  was  naturally  led  to  examine  the  ques- 
tions then  in  debate.  After  a  course  of  reading  and  prayerful 
consideration,  she  adopted  the  principles  of  the  Free  Church, 
and  resolved  to  become  a  member.  The  announcement  of  her 
determination  called  forth  a  degree  of  anger  which  none  could 
have  anticipated.  At  first,  she  was  cast  out  of  her  father's 
home,  and  had  to  take  refuge  elsewhere.  When  readmitted, 
it  was  to  be  treated  very  much  as  an  alien  by  him  who  had 
formerly  been  one  of  the  fondest  of  fathers.  The  distance  to 
the  parish  church,  and  also  to  the  Free,  was  great,  so  that  the 
family  and  servants  had  to  drive.  She  was  forbid  a  place  in 
the  family  carriage,  forbid  a  place  in  the  conveyance  used  by 
the  servants ;  and  year  after  year,  in  the  heat  of  summer  and 
cold  of  winter,  the  strange  spectacle  was  seen  of  the  once-loved 
daughter  walking  the  long  miles  on  foot,  while  the  father,  in 
his  carriage,  passed  her  on  the  road,  and  even  the  servants  did 
not  dare  to  interfere  in  her  behalf.  It  was  in  vain  that  his 
own  relatives,  holding  his  own  views  on  Church  matters, 
remonstrated    against    such    treatment.      There    was    every 

*  Life,  p.  273. 


I 


TRIALS  OF  THE  PEOPLE.  36Y 

reason   to    believe   that   he    most   sincerely  thought   he    was 
doing  God  service. 

In  another  widely  dififerent  district  there  occurred  a  yet  more 
painful  case.  Among  the  resident  landowners  was  a  family 
who  had  sent  two  daughters  to  be  educated  in  Edinburgh, 
and  on  their  return,  following  their  conscientious  views  of  duty, 
they  announced  their  resolution  to  join  the  Free  Church.  This 
was  resisted,  and  by  force  they  were  compelled  to  attend  the 
Establishment.  For  a  time  this  went  on,  but  in  the  case  of  the 
younger,  the  burden  lying  on  her  conscience  became  more  than 
she  could  bear,  and  one  winter  morning  she  rose  in  the  early 
dawn,  left  her  home,  and  went  to  some  relatives,  where  her 
sister  soon  after  joined  her.  Following  out  their  convictions, 
they  became  members  of  the  Free  Church  ;  but  it  was  an  offence 
which  their  mother  never  forgave.  In  the  course  of  the  following 
year  she  took  ill.  Her  daughters  begged  humbly  and  earnestly 
to  be  allowed  to  come  home  and  nurse  her,  but  she  was  inexor- 
able. The  painful  disease  rapidly  ran  its  course,  and  she  died, 
never  having  admitted  her  daughters  into  her  presence. 

In  contrast  to  these  painful  cases  there  is  an  incident 
briefly  recorded  by  Mr,  Davidson,  of  Latheron,  Caithness,  which 
deserves  to  be  mentioned.  "  For  one  of  the  proprietors  I  felt 
very  much.  He  was  a  widower,  and  had  an  only  daughter, 
about  fifteen  years  of  age,  and  when  Sabbath  came  he  wished 
her  to  accompany  him  to  church  to  welcome  the  new  minister. 
This  she  begged  to  be  excused  from  doino;  assigning  as  a  rea- 
son  that  she  did  not  think  they  were  a  right  Church  at  all, 
after  the  unfaithful  way  in  which  they  had  acted.  So  he  had 
to  go  alone,  and  she  joined  us,  as  did  her  elder  brother  also, 
when  he  came  to  the  parish."  * 

There  was  still  another  evidence  of  hostile  feeling  which 
must  not  be  left  unnoticed — the  attempt  to  pursue  the  members 
of  the  Free  Church  even  beyond  death.  "In  the  winter  of 
ISiS,"  says  Mr.  Grant,  of  Ardoch,  "we  were  interdicted  from 
our  burying-ground,  bought  and  inclosed  with  our  own  money." 
It  seems  that  the  ground  being  attached  to  a  quoad  sacra 
church,  an  interdict  was  issued  against  the  right  of  burial  of 
*  Parker  ]\Iss.,  Paper  by  Eev.  Mr.  Davidson,  p.  15. 


368  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

members  of  the  Free  Church.  It  was  noticed  that  immediately 
after  this  prohibition  the  first  two  who  were  buried  there  were 
the  most  influential  and  wealthiest  of  the  party — husband  and 
wife — who  had  taken  out  the  interdict,  * 

Those  friends  of  the  Establishment  in  Ardoch  who  wished  to 
exclude  the  members  of  the  Free  Church  from  burial  did  not 
stand  alone  in  their  desire.  The  following  notice  of  incidents 
in  the  parish  of  Kilmodan  (Glendaruel),  Argyllshire,  will  show 
what  sometimes  occurred  in  remote  parts  of  the  country,  where 
the  power  of  public  opinion  could  not  be  brought  to  bear : — 

"  In  the  class  of  parishes  to  which  mine  belonged,  it  was  not 
till  the  Disruption  was  fairly  past  that  the  hostility  of  our 
opponents  reached  its  full  height.  Till  the  event  took  place, 
they  always  laughed  to  scorn  the  idea  of  hundreds  of  ministers 
resigning  their  livings,  and  even  should  one  here  and  there, 
more  fanatical  than  the  rest,  make  the  sacrifice,  they  were  just 
as  confident  that  to  maintain  a  Free  Church  ministry  in  places 
like  mine  was  the  wildest  of  all  projects.  But  when  they  saw 
us  steadily  pursuing  our  wonted  path,  not  even  staggered  by 

*  Disr.  Mss.  xiii.  pp.  6,  9.  Coincidences  of  this  kind  have  been 
observed  in  various  parts  of  the  country.  At  Symington,  in  Ayr- 
Bhire,  the  leading  heritor  "  could  not  bear  the  idea  of  a  Free  Church 
being  established  in  the  parish  against  his  wishes.  He  therefore 
used  all  his  influence,  and  it  was  not  small,  to  prevent  his  tenants 
and  others  from  joining  us,  and  to  defeat  our  purpose  in  building 
a  new  church.  But  all  in  vain.  The  people  who  had  come  out,  with 
few  exceptions,  steadfastly  adhered  to  us,  and  the  church  gradually 
rose  towards  completion.  The  Colonel  was  often  heard  to  say,  as  the  new 
church  rose  before  his  eyes,  that  he  hoped  to  God  he  would  never 
hear  our  bell  ring,  and  he  got  his  wish,  for  on  the  very  Sabbath  on  which 
the  church  was  opened,  he  was  lying  a  corpse,  having  died  the  previous 
Friday.  His  health  during  the  latter  part  of  the  year  had  not  been  good, 
and  it  was  generally  believed  in  the  parish  at  the  time  that  the  vexation 
and  disappointment  he  experienced  in  connection  with  the  Disruption  had 
much  to  do  with  undermining  and  injuring  it.  Be  that  as  it  may,  it 
rapidly  declined,  so  that  he  was  lying  cold  in  death  on  the  day  our  church 
was  opened,  and  opened,  too,  by  the  very  man  he  had  interdicted.  The 
Colonel's  death  made  a  deep  and  profound  impression  in  the  parish,  the 
people  were  overawed  and  solemnised  by  it,  and  well  do  I  remember  how 
they  used  to  speak  to  me  of  it  in  private,  saying,  with  bated  breath,  '•  It 
was  unco  judgment  like." — Disr.  Mss.  xlviii.  p.  13. 


TEIALS  OF  THE  PEOPLE.  369 

the  blow  which  they  thought  was  to  annihilate  us,  and  our 
principles  striking  their  roots  deeper  and  wider  everywhere, 
their  wrath  knew  no  bounds.  A  '  reign  of  terror '  was  then 
set  up  ;  I  speak  the  words  of  truth  and  soberness  when  I  say 
so.   * 

Mr.  M'Lean  goes  on  to  speak  of  the  leading  heritor  who  "  took 
it  at  once  for  granted  that,  in  the  emergency  which  had  now 
occurred,  the  cure  of  souls,  of  which,  in  his  view,  I  was  now 
stripped,  was  added  to  his  other  duties,  jure  devoluto,  as  the 
'civil  magistrate'  of  the  place.  And  he  certainly  magnified 
this  odd  mixture  of  offices  in  many  remarkable  ways.  On  one 
of  his  warlike  rounds  of  weekly  visitation,  he  came  suddenly 
and  unexpectedly  on  a  group  of  eager  inquirers,  earnestly  dis- 
cussing the  question  of  the  day.  Fiercely  fixing  on  a  young 
Free  Churchman,  who  was  endeavouring  to  make  good  his 
retreat,  as  the  presumed  fomenter  of  these  treasonable  practices, 
he  thus  addressed  him :  '  How  dare  you,  sir,  speak  on  such 
subjects  in  this  glen  ?  I  must  put  them  down !  The  charge 
of  this  parish  is  committed  to  me  as  an  heritor,  a  gentleman, 
and  a  justice  of  the  peace ;  and  if  ever  I  catch  you  at  this  work 
again,  FU  split  your  head  down  to  the  shoulders.'  And,  suit- 
ing the  action  to  the  word,  he  grasped  and  brandished  his 
heavy-handled  whip.  I  cannot,  especially  in  such  short  space, 
do  any  justice  to  this  scene.  The  language,  however,  I  give 
literally  as  employed,  and  communicated  to  me  at  the  time  by 
the  youth  who,  now  a  respectable  teacher  in  one  of  our  pro- 
vincial academies,  is  still  ready  to  bear  witness  to  this  and 
other  specimens  of  the  '  reign  of  terror'  in  the  glen. 

**  Such  being  the  law  and  practice  of  the  place,  as  laid  down 
by  its  highest  authority,  *  an  heritor,  a  gentleman,  and  a  jus- 
tice of  the  peace,'  it  was  only  what  might  be  expected  if  others 
were  led  to  employ  a  mode  of  argument  recommended  by  such 
eminent  example.  And  so  it  was.  Not  long  after,  a  poor  lame 
lad,  a  servant  of  mine,  sent  by  me  to  superintend  the  valuation 
of  some  furniture  which  my  successor  in  the  manse  wished  to 
retain,  was,  while  on  that  duty,  knocked  down  and  trampled  on 
so  severely,  that  he  went  home,  took  to  his  bed,  and  in  a  short 

*  See  belosv,  at  pp.  393-398. 

2  B 


370  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION, 

time  died.  He  told  me  repeatedly,  on  his  death-bed,  that  it 
was  for  his  expressed  opinion  on  the  Church  question  he  was 
assaulted,  and  that  he  ascribed  his  death  to  the  injuries  then 
received.  I  reported  the  case  to  the  procurator-fiscal  of  the 
district,  who  came  and  took  a  kind  of  precognition,  with  which 
I  had  every  reason  to  be  dissatisfied,  neither  my  presence  nor 
evidence  being  invited  at  all !  .  . 

"  One  instance  more,  and  I  have  done.  As  the  drift  of  what 
was  done  was  to  make  the  people  believe  that  no  spiritual 
ordinances  or  privileges  were  to  be  had  at  the  hands  of  Dis- 
ruption ministers,  so,  with  the  same  view,  the  monstrous  threat 
was  held  out  that,  the  churchyard  being  heritors*  property,  they 
had  the  power,  and  would  exercise  it,  of  excluding  from  burial 
there  all  who  seceded  from  the  Established  Church.  An  elder 
of  mine,  venerable  for  his  years  and  gray  hairs,  singularly 
amiable  and  inofiensive  in  his  manners,  and  highly  respected 
for  his  guilelessness  and  worth,  was  one  day  musing  over  the 
graves  of  his  children,  some  of  whom  had  grown  to  manhood, 
giving  fair  promise  of  being  the  staff  of  his  old  age.  Sud- 
denly, in  the  midst  of  these  sad  and  sacred  meditations,  the 
gentleman  to  whom  I  have  so  often  alluded  came  upon  him, 
and  had  the  heart  to  say,  '  Unless  you  leave  that  Free  Church, 
I'll  take  good  care  that  your  old  bones  shall  never  lie  beside 
those  below.'  The  words  are  taken  down  from  the  old  man's 
lips,  literally  translated,  for  he  spoke  in  Gaelic.  It  was  when 
standing  on  the  very  spot  that  he  himself  told  me  the  touching 
story  ;  and  on  my  remarking  that  surely  the  savage  threat  was 
not  made  in  earnest,  '  But  indeed  it  was,  though,  and  in  rage 
too,'  said  the  gentle  old  man ;  and  as  he  spoke  through  the 
quivering  smile  with  which  he  tried,  but  failed,  to  veil  the 
agony  in  his  features,  I  saw  '  the  iron  enter  into  his  soul/ 

"  Such  are  a  few  of  the  leading  facts  in  my  experience  of 
Disruption  times.  They  are  not  only  truthful,  but  capable  of 
being  substantiated  still.  They  may  give  some  idea  of  the 
relentless  and  unceasing  process,  applied  for  years,  to  waste  and 
wear  out  our  people  and  our  principles.  Only  a  small  part, 
however,  has  been  told ;  and  even  in  the  case  of  some  whose 
hearts  and  consciences  were  with  us,  but  who  shrank  from  the 


TEIALS  OF  THE  PEOPLE.  371 

threatened  ordeal  of  'forsaking  all  things,'  I  have  witnessed 
tears  of  anguish  and  entreaties  to  accept  a  contribution,  '  to 
add  their  stone  to  the  building  of  our  church,'  of  which,  though 
at  the  distance  of  ten  years,  I  could  not  speak  more  particu- 
larly, lest  the  same  vindictive  spirit  of  persecution  should  be 
guided  even  yet  [1853]  to  its  prey. 

"  The  worst  is  now  over.  We  may  say  '  Forsan  et  hgec  olim 
meminisse  juvabit.'  By  the  good  hand  of  God  upon  us,  that 
brighter  future  has  already  come.  .  .  . 

"  And  even  apart  from  the  joyful  contrast,  not  all  unpleasant 
in  themselves  were  those  troublous  times.  In  them  the  Word 
of  the  Lord  was  precious,  men's  hearts  were  stirred  to  their 
depths,  God's  quickening  Spirit  was  sent  forth,  and  there  were 
times  of  refreshing  from  on  high.  Thus  '  He  giveth  songs  in 
the  night.' "  * 

•  Disr.  Mss.  bdi.  pp.  9-14. 


372  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 


XXIX.  Hard  Work. 

It  was  a  happy  circumstance  that  among  the  outgoing  minis- 
ters so  many  were  in  the  vigour  of  youth,  and  ready  to  devote 
the  first  and  best  of  their  strength  to  the  cause  of  Christ.  It 
is  difficult  to  give  an  idea  of  the  toil  that  was  required. 
Ministers  and  preachers  had  gone  out,  more  than  600  strong ; 
but  the  people  seemed  at  once  to  recognise  the  Free  Church  as 
the  true  old  Church  of  Scotland,  and  the  call  for  the  supply  of 
ordinances  at  her  hands  rapidly  assumed  national  proportions. 
A  committee  was  appointed  to  make  arrangements,  but  the 
difficulties  were  great.  *'  The  problem,"  as  Dr.  Candlish  stated 
in  giving  in  the  first  report,  "  was  to  meet  the  large  and  still 
increasing  demand  with  a  greatly  inadequate  supply ;  and  this 
explains  much  of  the  embarrassment  which  the  Committee  has 
experienced  in  carrying  out  the  object  for  which  it  was 
appointed.  We  were  working  out  the  insoluble  problem  of 
how  one  loaf  of  bread  was  to  do  the  work  of  two,  or  how  a 
hundred  ministers  and  probationers  were  to  do  the  work  of  two 
hundred.  This  was  the  problem  we  had  to  solve ;  and  in  the 
struggle  to  work  it  we  had  to  give  and  take — to  withdraw  a 
man  here,  and  send  him  there,  so  that,  if  possible,  something 
approaching  to  a  competent  provision  might  be  made  for  the 
wants  of  the  adhering  population."  * 

What  aggravated  the  difficulty  was  the  unequal  distribution 
of  the  ministers  who  went  out.  There  was  one  Presbytery — 
that  of  Tongue,  in  Sutherlandshire — in  which  not  a  single 
parish  minister  remained  in  the  Establishment.  There  were 
other  Presbyteries — one,  for  example,  in  the  Synod  of  Aberdeen 
— where  not  a  single  minister  came  out.  More  frequently, 
*  Assembly  Proceedings,  Glasgow,  1843,  p.  167. 


HAED  WORK.  373 

two  or  three  men  found  themselves  burdened  with  the  charge 
of  the  parishes  of  a  whole  Presbytery  or  county.  Even  where 
the  number  was  greatest,  the  people  who  had  followed  them  out 
naturally  claimed  a  right  to  their  services.  The  supply  of 
preachers,  on  the  other  hand,  was  utterly  inadequate  to  the 
demand.  In  the  Synod  of  Moray  there  were  twelve  new  con- 
gregations demanding  supply,  but  only  seven  preachers  could 
be  sent.  In  that  of  Aberdeen  there  were  forty  additional  con- 
gregations, but  there  were  only  twenty-five  preachers  to  keep 
up  the  services ;  and  in  other  districts  there  was  a  similar 
deficiency.  And  what,  then,  was  to  be  done  ?  Men  could  not 
sit  still ;  the  fields  were  white  to  the  harvest.  Here  was  one 
reward,  which  had  been  longed  for  amid  the  battling  of  the  Ten 
Years'  Conflict.  A  great  door  and  efiectual  was  opened  up. 
Cost  what  it  might,  the  golden  opportunity  must  not  fail  to  be 
turned  to  account;  and  ministers  threw  themselves  into  the 
work,  little  caring  how  it  might  afiect  life  or  health.  The 
result  was,  that  the  struggle  to  supply  ordinances  under  such 
difficulties  entailed  an  amount  of  exertion  which,  though  little 
thought  of  at  the  moment,  sent  many  a  man  ofi"  the  field 
with  shattered  health,  and  consigned  others  to  an  untimely 
grave. 

To  show  the  eagerness  with  which  Gospel  preaching  was 
welcomed,  we  may  refer  to  the  West  of  Argyllshire,  one  of  the 
districts  scantily  supplied  by  the  Eree  Church.  It  was  visited 
by  Dr.  Begg,  who  says  :  "  We  crossed  from  Tobermory  to  the 
district  of  Ardnamurchan  at  a  point  called  Laga.  ...  It  was 
mid-day,  but  the  people  had  nevertheless  assembled  to  hear 
sermon,  some  of  them  having  walked  fifteen  miles.  I  there  saw, 
for  the  first  time,  what  I  had  often  read  of  before — a  light  burn- 
ing on  the  hill  as  we  advanced  to  the  place,  and,  on  inquiry, 
was  told  that  it  was  to  intimate  to  the  people  on  the  opposite 
side  that  there  was  to  be  sermon ;  and  I  saw  the  boats  coming 
from  the  opposite  shore  with  people  to  attend  the  service. 
Here  was  the  fiery  cross,  that  used  to  bring  out  the  Celts  to 
war,  now  used  to  bring  them  out  to  hear  the  Gospel  of  peace. 
Mr.  Stewart,  of  Cromar,  whom  we  left  behind,  as  we  were 
forced  to  press  on  towards  Strontian,  began  the  services  of  the 


374  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 

day ;  and  we  heard  the  solemn  sound  of  the  psalmody  die  away 
in  the  distant  hills. 

"  We  went  to  Strontian,  where  public  worship  was  to  take 
place,  and  as  no  previous  intimation  had  been  given,  it  was 
necessary  that  means  should  be  taken  for  summoning  the 
people.  As  we  sailed  along  the  shore,  I  was  much  struck  with 
the  primitive  way  in  which  the  intimation  was  made.  A  cate- 
chist  was  seated  in  the  boat,  and  as  she  brushed  along  the 
shore,  he  cried  out  in  Gaelic,  'Sermon  at  six  o'clock.'  This 
flew  from  hamlet  to  hamlet,  and  a  large  audience,  when  the 
worship  commenced,  was  assembled  on  the  hill.  I  could  not, 
of  course,  understand  the  Gaelic  sermon  preached  by  Mr.  Mac- 
lean, of  Tobermory ;  but  one  thing  I  could  not  faO.  to  observe, 
that  the  Spirit  of  the  living  God  seemed  to  accompany  the 
Word  with  Divine  power.  Not  only  did  the  people  hang  on 
the  lips  of  the  speaker,  but  they  exhibited  the  deepest  emotion. 
The  audience  was  dissolved  in  tears,  and  deep  sobs  were  heard 
throughout.  It  was  a  calm  and  lovely  evening,  .  .  .  and  I 
cannot  tell  how  I  felt  when  I  stood  in  that  neighbourhood 
where  the  Spirit  of  God  seemed  to  be  at  work.  ...  I  shortly 
spoke  to  the  people,  and  a  venerable  patriarch  afterwards  came 
forward,  and  made  an  address  to  me  in  his  native  tongue, 
shedding  tears  as  he  spoke.  That  address  was  interpreted,  and 
the  meaning  of  it  was,  that  he  blessed  God  that  he  had  lived  to 
see  the  day  when  the  Church  of  Scotland  was  taking  so  deep  an 
interest  in  her  scattered  children,  and  sending  men  to  witness 
the  trials  to  which  they  were  subjected,  with  a  prayer  that  all 
blessings  might  descend  upon  the  Church  and  upon  us."  * 

Another  who  went  for  a  time  to  labour  in  the  same  county — 
Mr.  Campbell,  of  Berriedale,  in  Caithness — states  his  experience  : 
"  During  the  winter  and  spring  of  1848,  the  work  was  very 
heavy,  for  the  excitement  caused  by  the  Disruption — the  hunger 
and  thirst  of  the  people  for  hearing  the  Word — was  very  great. 
They  were  not  satisfied  with  hearing  on  the  Sabbath;  we 
required  to  preach  to  them  on  week-days  also,  not  only  in  the 
open  air  during  the  day,  but  at  night  also  in  private  houses.  In 
the  Island  of  Islay  I  preached  forty  times  in  two  weeks.     Their 

*  Free  Church  Magazine,  ii.  p.  340. 


HAKD  WORK.  375 

earnestness  was  the  same  everywhere,  and  the  opportunity  of 
preaching  the  Word  was  remarkable  during  the  whole  of  that 
year."  * 

This  state  of  mind  was  by  no  means  confined  to  the  High- 
lands. At  Glasgow,  Dr.  Lorimer  states  :  "  On  looking  back,  I 
often  feel  that  I  could  not  go  through  the  same  service  again. 
I  am  disposed  to  wonder  how  I  succeeded,  and  by  this  very 
feeling  am  reminded  that  it  was  not  in  my  own  strength — that 
a  gracious  Sustainer  was  standing  unseen  behind."  -f- 

Of  Mr.  Buchan,  of  Hamilton,  it  is  stated :  "  At  the  memor- 
able Disruption  he  left  the  Established  Church,  carrying  along 
with  him  a  large  and  influential  congregation.  Nearly  another 
generation  has  risen  up  since  then,  and  it  is  now  little  known 
what  prodigious  efforts  he  put  forth  in  organising  the  Free 
Church  within  the  bounds  of  his  Presbytery.  From  aU  sides 
requests  were  made  to  him,  and  deputations  waited  on  him,  that 
he  should  take  the  charge  of  the  congregation  in  their  new  and 
unwonted  circumstances — people,  elders,  precentor,  beadle, 
having  seceded,  and  the  sacramental  season  being  near — that 
he  should  come  and  preside  on  the  occasion,  and  take  the 
superintendence  of  their  affairs.  To  such  appeals  he  could  not 
lend  a  deaf  ear,  .  .  .  and  many  of  the  most  flourishing  congre- 
gations within  the  bounds  regard  him  as  their  father."  J 

Mr,  Martin,  of  Bathgate,  is  said,  at  the  time  of  the  Disrup- 
tion, and  for  several  years  after  it,  to  have  had  "  a  very  great 
amount  of  labour  and  anxiety  thrown  upon  him.  As  clerk 
to  the  Presbytery,  he  had  to  direct,  in  a  great  measure,  all  the 
business  arrangements  connected  with  the  congregations  in  the 
district."  "  Linlithgow,  Broxburn,  Bo'ness,  &c.,  were  all  witness 
to  his  self-denying  exertions  iu  their  behalf."  As  if  this  were 
not  enough,  in  the  summer  of  1844  he  undertook  deputation- 
work  within  the  bounds  of  the  Presbyteries  of  Stranraer  and 
Wigtown.  "  I  left  home,"  he  says,  "  on  Thursday,  the  16th, 
reached  Stranraer  about  eight  the  same  evening.  ...  In  thir- 
teen days  I  delivered  twenty-one  addresses  or  sermons,  most  of 
them   pretty   long ;    was    altogether   seventeen    days   away — 

*  Parker  Mss.,  Presb.  of  Caithness.  t  Disr.  Mss.  i.  p.  10. 

I  Monthly  Record  of  Free  Church,  18G9,  p.  185. 


376  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

travelled  very  considerably  above  400  miles,  and  at  an  expense 
under  £3,  3s.  I  was  very  jaded  when  I  returned."  "  It  was 
commonly  said  of  him  at  that  time,  *  Mr.  Martin  is  killing  him- 
self ;  he  is  doing  the  work  of  three  men.'"  *  He  died  at  Bath- 
gate, on  the  15th  of  May,  1850,  at  the  age  of  48  years. 

Even  those  ministers  who  were  far  advanced  in  Kfe  seemed 
to  shake  off  the  burden  of  years.  Dr.  Landsborough  "  had 
charge  of  Kilwinning,  Stevenston,  Saltcoats,  and  Ardrossan. 
Every  Sabbath  he  preached  three  times,  and  on  several  occa- 
sions he  even  preached  four  times.  On  one  occasion,  in  addi- 
tion to  preaching  four  times  on  a  Sabbath,  he  had  a  short 
service  in  a  private  house,  where  he  baptised  a  child,  whose 
father  was  at  sea,  .  .  .  Dr.  Landsborough,  although  near  the 
close  of  his  sixty-fourth  year,  showed  a  strength  and  endurance 
— a  freedom  and  power — far  exceeding  that  of  any  former 
period  of  his  life.  Weary  he  might  be  in  his  work,  but  never 
weary  of  it.  The  congregations  also  were  wonderfully  large, 
and  the  ears  of  the  people  were  open  to  hear,  .  .  .  They  listened 
as — with  the  exception  of  the  time  of  revival — they  never  had 
done  before."  -}- 

In  the  same  way  at  Ruthwell,  "  Dr.  Duncan  felt  glad  that  he 
was  now  at  liberty  to  carry  the  message  of  peace  over  borders 
which  had  long  been  to  him  painfully  impassable.  Though  in 
his  seventieth  year,  he  went  every  alternate  Sabbath  evening 
along  the  shores  of  the  Solway  during  summer  to  preach  in  the 
open  air  to  about  200  people  in  Caerlaverock  parish.  In 
Mousewald  and  Dalton  also  he  had  preaching  stations,  and  in 
each  of  these  parishes  we  got  Sabbath  schools  placed."  "  Sure 
I  am  that  his  energy  was  never  greater ;  his  youth  seemed  to 
be  renewed — his  labours  were  more  abundant — and  when  he 
returned  late  and  cold  from  distant  prayer-meetings  during 
that  severe  winter  (1844-45)  in  the  little  open  gig,  he  would 
not  allow  us  to  express  any  concern  as  if  he  were  exerting 
himself  beyond  his  strength,"  | 

There  are  some  of  the  narratives,  however,  which  deserve 

"  Piu-ker  Mss.,  Presb.  of  Linlithgow.     See  also  Memoir,  pp   118,  125. 

t  Memoir  of  Dr.  Landsborough,  p.  184. 

X  Disr.  Mss.  xvi.  pp.  8,  9. 


HARD  WORK.  377 

to  be  given  at  greater  length.     The  first  is  by  Mr.  M'Leod, 
of  Maryborough,  afterwards  of  Lochbroom. 

"  Of  the  increase  of  labour  brought  on  by  the  Disruption,  in 
supplying  the  adhering  population  in  those  parishes  and  districts 
where  the  ministers  remained  in  the  Establishment,  Mr.  M'Leod 
had  a  large  share.  During  the  following  months  of  this  summer, 
and  the  harvest  season  of  1843,  besides  having  the  charge  of 
two  congregations  in  his  own  Presbytery,  he  frequently  responded 
to  the  almost  daily  calls  from  other  parts  of  the  country  for 
assistance  at  the  administration  of  the  Lord's  Supper  ;  for  help 
and  encouragement  to  the  adherents  of  the  Church,  specially 
where  the  cause  was  much  opposed. 

"  With  other  places,  he  visited  Lochaber,  and  assisted  at  the 
memorable  communion  at  Kilmalie,  when  the  congregation 
worshipped  on  the  sea-shore  below  flood-mark,  under  circum- 
stances which,  with  other  incidents  of  the  times,  no  doubt  will 
be  detailed  by  the  much-respected  Free  Church  minister  of  that 
congregation. 

"  After  the  solemn  occasion  in  this  parish  was  over,  and  spend- 
ing some  days  lecturing  in  that  wide  and  wild  country,  where 
attempts  were  made  in  some  localities  to  prevent  the  adherents 
of  the  Free  Church  meeting  at  all,  even  in  the  open  air,  he 
visited,  by  special  appointment  of  the  Home  Mission  Committee, 
Badenoch  and  Strathspey  for  the  first  time,  and  followed  up 
arrangements  made  by  the  late  Mr.  Shepherd,  of  Kingussie, 
who  was  the  only  minister  along  the  line  of  the  [Upper]  Spey 
who  had  left  the  Establishment. 

"  By  holding  meetings  in  eight  of  the  parishes  of  that  exten- 
sive country,  where  the  people,  till  then,  had  continued  to  give 
such  careless  attendance  as  they  were  in  the  habit  of  giving  at 
the  parish  church,  a  very  general  interest  was  awakened  in  the 
cause  and  principles  of  the  Free  Church.  One  meeting  at  least 
was  held  in  one  or  other  of  these  parishes  daily  ;  and  the  only 
Sabbath  he  had  at  this  time  in  the  country,  he  met  the  people 
on  the  well-known  knowe  of  Tullochgorum,  a  central  point, 
where,  it  was  stated  in  the  local  papers  of  the  time,  upwards  of 
4000  assembled.  .  .  . 

"  After  being  some  days  with  the  congregations  under  his 


378  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

charge,  and  meeting  several  urgent  engagements,  he  was  asked 
to  visit  Lochbroom,  on  the  west  coast.  On  the  29th  of  Septem- 
ber, he  crossed  the  Dithreabh  Mor,  for  the  first  time,  on  a  very 
dark  night  of  heavy  rain,  when,  under  Providence,  he  owed  much 
of  his  safety  to  the  sagacity  of  an  old  Highland  pony,  which  had 
■  been  sent  to  meet  him,  and  was  so  well  acquainted  with  the  hills, 
burns,  and  rivers.  When  his  guide  and  himself  failed  to  make 
out  the  path,  this  sure-footed  animal  kept  its  way  till  after 
crossing  the  river  Broom,  which  was  greatly  flooded,  it  arrived 
at  the  old  manse  of  Lochbroom,  where  the  widow  of  the  late 
Dr.  Ross  was  still  residing.  .  .  . 

"  Mr.  M'Leod  preached  at  Ullapool  on  the  first  Sabbath  of 
October,  in  the  open  air,  and  also  on  Monday,  and  lectured  on 
the  Church  question.  The  extent  and  physical  difficulties  of 
the  parish  seemed  not  to  interfere  with  the  attendance,  for  the 
whole  adult  population,  with  few  exceptions,  indeed,  attended — 
from  two  to  three  thousand  people.  Although  it  was  thought 
that  Monday  should  have  ended  the  service  here,  he  was  obliged 
to  officiate  on  Tuesday  and  Wednesday,  the  people  from  the 
distant  districts  remaining  without  a  break. 

"  During  the  days  of  this  sojourn,  it  was  very  manifest  that 
the  impressions  were  very  favourable,  both  as  regarded  the 
spiritual  interests  of  the  people,  and  their  views  of  the  prin- 
ciples and  position  of  the  Free  Church.  The  weeping  aloud  of 
several,  the  abundant  tears  of  many  more,  the  solemn  and  fixed 
attention  of  all,  clearly  indicated  the  depth  of  their  feelings." 

Mr.  M'Leod  closes  his  notes  of  these  and  other  similar 
journeys  with  the  significant  statement :  "  In  his  labours  in  the 
West  Highlands  alone,  during  the  last  twenty-one  years,  he  has 
travelled  upwards  of  9000  miles  in  open  boats."  * 

And  what  the  hardships  of  these  journeys  often  were  may  be 
learned  from  the  narrative  of  his  friend,  Mr.  Sinclair,  of  Plock- 
ton  :  "  The  work  to  be  done  was  almost  gigantic.  Only  a  man 
of  Mr.  M'Leod's  well-knit,  stalwart  frame,  and  vigorous,  elastic 
constitution,  could  have  stood  for  any  time  the  labours  he  went 
through,  and  which  many  friends  in  the  south  would  consider 
incredible.  For  instance,  we  have  known  Mr.  M'Leod,  in 
*  Parker  Mss.,  Presb.  of  Lochcarron,  paper  by  Mr.  M'Leod. 


HARD  WOKK.  379 

returning  home  after  preaching  at  one  of  the  more  remote 
stations  of  his  charge,  forced  by  stress  of  weather  to  pass  the 
night  on  a  bare,  insular,  uninhabited  rock  of  the  sea,  on  a  rainy 
October  night,  with  little  food,  without  fire,  no  better  shelter 
than  the  '  oilskins '  of  his  crew,  and  no  better  mattress  than 
their  jackets,  which  the  brave,  loving  fellows  could  ill  afibrd  to 
want.  We  have  accompanied  him  in  his  good  boat  on  a  Sabbath 
morning  in  the  month  of  June,  from  his  manse  in  Ullapool  to 
one  of  his  distant  stations.  The  wind  turned  contrary,  and  it 
was  4  o'clock  p.m.,  instead  of  12  noon,  when  we  arrived  at  the 
appointed  place  ;  the  *  dear  people,'  as  he  himself  invariably 
called  them,  patiently  waiting  our  arrival,  and  as  patiently  wait- 
ing for  two  hours  after  that  in  the  open  air,  till  the  services  of 
the  day  were  over.  It  was  10  o'clock  at  night  ere  we  got  back 
to  Ullapool."* 

Not  less  remarkable  is  the  statement  by  the  Rev.  Eric 
Findlater,  of  Lochearnhead : — 

"  As  to  my  own  personal  privations,  as  it  does  not  become 
me,  so  I  am  unwilling,  to  speak  of  them.  I  had  youth  and 
good  health  on  my  side,  and,  I  trust,  the  approbation  of  a 
good  conscience  in  the  part  I  took.  Suf&ce  it  to  say,  that  during 
the  year  of  the  Disruption  I  was  seldom  three  nights  running, 
in  the  same  bed ;  and  I  recollect  of  having  made  a  calculation 
at  this  time  of  having  travelled  in  my  gig  or  on  horseback  about 
1800  miles  in  about  eighteen  months ;  but  you,  who  know  how 
wide  the  districts  were  in  which  I  had  to  ofl&ciate,  will  not  be 
surprised  at  this.  My  chief  regret  in  those  days  was,  that  I 
could  not  carry  on  anything  like  systematic  study.  When  I 
now  look  back  upon  the  variety  of  places  in  which  I  oflBciated, 
it  looks  more  like  romance  than  reality.  Again  and  again  on 
the  bare  hillside,  in  that  winter  of  1843-44,  the  Sabbath-days 
of  which  were  unprecedentediy  fine  ;  often  under  the  precarious 
shelter  of  a  canvas  tent ;  on  one  occasion  at  Durness  it  was 
rent  from  top  to  bottom  by  a  squall  in  the  middle  of  the  service  ; 
at  times  in  the  shelter  of  a  stone  dyke  ;  sometimes  from  a 
wooden  tent  or  box ;  at  other  times  in  a  cottage,  having  a  fire 
in  the  centre  and  the  people  grouped  round  it ;  at  other  times 

*  Free  Church  Monthly  Record,  August,  1871. 


380  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

ill  a  gravel-pit.  On  one  occasion  in  a  cave  in  the  island  of 
E-aasay,  on  another  on  a  hill-top,  again  in  a  large  barn,  and  once 
on  board  one  of  Her  Majesty's  cruisers,  with  the  Bible  placed 
on  the  flag  of  Old  England.  But  always  in  those  years  it  was 
to  large  and  attentive  audiences. 

'*  Some  odd  circumstances  occurred.  I  remember  my  horse,  in 
his  love  for  the  clover  of  the  glebe  at  Durness,  where  he  was 
bred,  gave  me  the  slip  in  Assynt,  and  travelled  a  distance  of 
thirty  miles  before  he  was  overtaken.  I  had  to  spend  a  whole 
winter  evening  in  the  same  room  in  a  public-house  with  an 
Established  Church  probationer ;  and  I  suppose  both  of  us  would 
have  preferred  any  other  society.  I  had  to  exchange  civilities 
with  factors  who  would  avoid  me  as  they  would  the  plague, 
because  they  knew  I  was  often  engaged  in  drawing  out  peti- 
tions to  the  Duke  for  sites.  I  had  to  perform  ordinances  while 
wet  to  the  skin,  after  riding  perhaps  fourteen  miles,  and  having 
no  possibility  of  changing  my  clothes.  And  I  remember  on  two 
occasions  how  the  same  idea  crossed  me.  One  of  these  was  on 
a  cold  night,  in  the  house  of  a  Gaelic  schoolmaster ;  the  curtains 
were  but  thin,  and  the  window  but  poorly  supplied  with  glass. 
The  other  was  while  eating  oatcake  and  milk  out  of  an  iron 
spoon  in  a  smith's  house  in  Mull,  after  preaching  two  sermons. 
There  was  a  slate  hung  up  on  the  wall  with  the  honest  man's 
accounts  jotted  on  it,  and,  among  other  items,  one  struck  my 

fancy — viz.,  '  To  putting  a  ring  in 's  pig's  snout.'     I  could 

not  choose  but  think  on  both  these  occasions  on  the  luxurious 
tables  I  had  but  a  year  previously  been  a  guest  at — the  rich 
hangings,  the  gildings,  plate,  and  company.  Yet  I  believe  I  can 
say,  without  ostentation,  that  my  sleep  was  as  sound,  and  my 
enjoyment  of  my  plain  fare  as  great,  on  these  occasions,  as  when 
reposing  on  down,  or  associating  with  nobility ;  and  that  I  did 
not  grudge  the  sacrifice."  * 

But  while  youth  and  strength  were  able  to  withstand 
such  pressure,  there  were  numerous  cases  in  which  health 
suffered,  and  life  itself  was  endangered.  Dr.  M'Gilvray,  of 
Aberdeen,  then  of  Glasgow,  writes  : — "  During  the  last  year  of 
the  struggle,  and  the  first  of  the  Disruption,  he  visited  the 
*  Disr.  Mss.  Ivi. 


HARD  WORK.  381 

counties  of  Argyll,  "Wigtown,  and  Perth,  for  the  purpose  of 
explaining  the  principles  [of  the  Free  Church],  and  was  the 
means  of  securing  the  adhesion  of  great  numbers  to  the  cause. 
To  some  of  the  remotest  of  these  places,  such  as  Islay,  Arran, 
and  Kintyre,  he  travelled  in  the  dead  of  winter,  holding  meet- 
ings every  day  at  diflferent  points,  exposed  to  all  the  hardships 
and  discomforts  peculiar  to  these  bleak  and  stormy  districts. 
Owing  to  the  opposition  of  lairds  and  factors,  the  meetings 
were  mostly  held  in  the  open  air,  sometimes  on  the  public 
highway,  and  sometimes  on  the  bare  sea-beach ;  and  more  than 
once  he  had  to  address  them  with  wet  clothes  drying  on  his 
back,  and  his  feet  sunk  to  the  ankles  in  snow.  .  .  . 

"  His  congregation  was  one  of  the  few  which  suffered  no  loss 
by  the  Disruption.  .  .  .  But  the  case  was  different  with  himself. 
In  consequence  of  the  heavy  labours  and  self-denying  sacrifices 
connected  with  the  Disruption  year,  along  with  personal  and 
family  afflictions  of  no  ordinary  kind,  his  health  became  seri- 
ously impaired,  and  he  was  at  last  seized  with  an  attack  of 
fever,  which  proved  nearly  fatal.  As  he  was  slowly  recovering 
from  the  state  of  prostiation  to  which  he  was  reduced  at  thi? 
period,  he  was  asked  by  the  Colonial  Committee  to  go  out  as  a 
deputy  to  Canada  for  six  months ;  and  hoping  that  the  sea- 
voyage  and  change  of  climate  might  have  some  effect  in  restor- 
ing his  exhausted  energies,  he  accepted  the  appointment,  and 
set  out  on  his  colonial  mission  in  September,  1846."* 

So,  also,  it  is  said  of  Mr.  Nairn,  of  Forgan,  Fifeshire,  that 
when  the  Disruption  came  he  saw  the  path  of  duty  clearly,  and 
took  it  without  hesitation.  But  the  bodily  fatigue  and  mental 
anxiety  that  he  underwent  at  that  period,  in  forming  and 
fostering  Free  Church  congregations  in  the  parishes  adjoining 
his  own,  so  injured  his  health  that  he  was  obliged  to  resign  his 
charge,  f 

Thus  health  and  strength  gave  way,  and  in  some  instances 
life  was  sacrificed  ;  but  with  all  this  there  is  usually  little 
desire  to  dwell  on  these  stories  of  toil,  and  exposure,  and 
death.      Wiiat  can    be  more   simple  than  an  entry  such   as 

*  Parker  Mss.,  Presb.  of  Gkusgow. 
t  Free  Church  Record,  August,  1873,  p.  109. 


I 


382  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 

this  ? — "  Mr.  Gordon,  of  Edderton,  had  to  remove  with  his 
family  to  Tain,  a  distance  of  five  miles,  as  no  dwelling  could 
be  got  in  the  parish.  In  1846  his  last  illness  was  incurred  by 
over-fatigue  and  exposure  on  his  third  preaching  tour  that  year 
in  the  remote  Highlands.  He  returned  home  on  the  20th 
November,  became  ill  on  the  25th,  and  lingered  on  till 
August."  * 

In  terms  similarly  brief  we  are  told  that  in  the  Presbytery 
of  Stranraer  five  ministers,  with  a  preacher  (sometimes  two), 
had  to  supply  ten  congregations.  These  duties  "  caused  much 
exhaustion  to  all  the  ministers.  To  this  may  be  ascribed  the 
acceleration  of  the  death  of  Mr.  Lamb."  -f- 

Much  has  been  said,  even  by  adversaries — in  many  cases, 
perhaps  too  much — of  the  money  sacrifices  of  the  Free  Church, 
which  bulked  so  largely  in  public  view.  If  the  full  history  of 
the  toil  and  struggle  of  those  years  could  be  told,  it  would  be 
seen  that  in  many  a  home  there  were  results  beside  which  mere 
pecuniary  loss  was  of  small  account.  It  was  happy  to  work 
and  contend  in  the  cause  of  Christ ;  but  the  above  extracts 
will  show  at  what  cost  it  was  often  done.  "  The  Disruption 
was  a  necessity  of  conscience  which  the  providence  of  the 
Church's  Head  had  made  inevitable,  and  out  of  which  He  has 
in  various  ways  brought  unthought-of  good.  .  .  .  Yet  the 
excitement  and  labours,  as  well  as  the  anxieties  and  hardships, 
consequent  on  the  great  change  of  circumstances,  brought  pre- 
mature age  on  many  of  the  most  devoted  ministers,  cutting 
some  of  them  off  in  the  prime  of  life,  and  forcing  others  to 
remove  from  loved  and  loving  flocks  to  lighter  spheres  of 
work."  \  Something,  in  short,  of  the  martyr-spirit  was  needed 
to  meet  the  difiiculties  of  that  time.  Men  had  not  only  to 
spend,  but  to  be  spent,  for  Christ. 

*  Parker  Mss.,  Presb.  of  Tain. 

t  Parker  Mss.,  Presb.  of  Stranraer. 

X  Memorials  of  the  Kev.  0.  Macintosh,  p.  Sflu 


TEIALS  OF  MINISTEES.  383 


XXX.  Trials  of  Ministers. 

Iir  many  a  manse  the  anxieties  of  the  weeks  that  preceded 
the  Disruption  formed  by  far  the  severest  trial  to  which 
ministers  were  subjected.  During  previous  controversies  there 
had  risen  up  a  feeling  of  chivalrous  devotedness  to  the  cause  of 
the  Established  Church,  and  nothing  could  exceed  the  reluc- 
tance with  which  men  contemplated  the  abandonment  of  their 
position.  But  a  still  greater  difficulty  was  the  fear  that  only  a 
mere  handful  of  people  would  stand  by  them  when  the  final 
step  was  taken.  It  was  loudly  proclaimed  that  Government 
had  a  healing  measure  in  preparation ;  and  as  the  decisive 
moment  drew  near,  there  appeared  in  some  quarters  ominous 
signs  of  a  disposition  to  hang  back,  as  if  congregations  were 
shrinking  from  the  burden  of  ministerial  support.  In  many 
parishes  the  prospects  of  the  outgoing  ministers  were  of  the 
gloomiest  kind. 

"  I  am,  perhaps,  more  faithless  than  some  of  my  brethren," 
says  Mr.  Martin,  of  Bathgate ;  "  but  I  certainly  expect  much 
sufi'ering  in  connection  with  our  future  position."  * 

Mr.  Walker,  of  Dysart,  writes :  "  I  remember  a  son  of  Mr. 
Proudfoot,  of  Culter,  telling  me  that  he  was  walking  as  a  boy 
with  his  father,  shortly  before  the  Disruption,  when  they  stopped 
to  speak  to  a  man  by  the  roadside.  The  conversation  turned 
upon  what  was  coming,  and  young  Proudfoot  heard  his  father 
calmly  say  that  he  had  no  expectation  of  being  able  to  remain 
with  his  congregation  (an  entirely  rural  one),  and  that  his 
thoughts  were  directed  to  seeking  employment  in  Canada,  or 
in  some  office  at  home.  The  man  remonstrated,  and  the  talk 
then  took  the  shape  of  discussing  how  much  it  might  be 
possible  for  the  minister  and  his  large  young  family  to  live 
*  Memoir,  p.  115. 


384  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION, 

upon — the  issue  being,  that  Mr.  Proudfoot  thought  that  he 
might  be  able  to  remain  if  he  could  be  secure  of  an  income  of 
£80  a-year.  Culter  is  one  of  the  prettiest  parishes  in  the 
Upper  Ward,  and  the  manse  is  in  one  of  its  sweetest  nooks. 
One  can  imagine,  therefore,  the  greatness  of  the  quiet  pressure 
which  was  brought  to  bear  upon  its  minister  (himself  a  man  of 
the  Nathanael-Paterson  type  of  mind)  when  he  could  calmly 
contemplate  the  surrender  of  so  much  of  what  made  life  attrac- 
tive for  him,  and  the  burying  himself  during  the  remainder  of 
his  days  in  a  counting-room." 

At  Yester,  Dr,  Thomson,  now  of  Paisley,  describes  the  diffi- 
culties of  his  position.  "The  very  paupers  —  old,  helpless 
women — were  threatened  with  the  loss  of  their  weekly  allow- 
ance if  they  left  the  parish  church ;  and  a  system  of  terrorism 
was  employed  by  farmers  and  others  against  their  workmen 
and  servants.  In  all  this  Lord  Tweeddale  had  no  share,  for  he 
had  been  absent  about  a  year  in  Madras  as  Governor.  Still, 
there  were  those  who  wielded  territorial  influence  in  a  way 
which,  if  he  had  known  of  it,  he  would  have  strongly  repudiated 
and  effectively  prevented.  Then,  too  many  of  the  people  clung 
to  the  hope  that  Parliament  would  yet  pass  a  measure  which 
might  satisfy  the  Church  ;  and  others  even  expressed  the  wish 
that  the  ministers  would  remain  at  their  posts. 

"  This  made  the  prospect  very  dark,  especially  as  even  those 
who  turned  out  to  be  the  most  staunch  in  their  adherence  to 
principle  refrained  from  saying  what  they  would  do  if  the  crisis 
came,  and  left  their  ministers  in  doubt,  .  .  .  All  this  was  very 
depressing  and  discouraging  to  us,  and  our  prospect  not  merely 
of  future  support,  but  of  future  usefulness,  seemed  dark. 

"  As  an  illustration  of  our  state  of  feeling,  I  may  mention 
the  following  incident.  About  a  month  or  two  before  the  Dis- 
ruption, the  late  Principal  Fairbairn,  then  minister  of  Salton, 
four  miles  distant  from  Yester,  called  at  my  manse.  We  had 
a  long  walk  and  conversation  as  to  our  future  prospects.  He 
asked  me  whether  I  thought  that  many  of  my  people  would 
come  out.  I  said  that  I  thought  very  few  would — certainly 
not  above  fifty,  but  that  if  even  fifty  came  out,  I  would  remain 
as  their  minister ;  if  not,  I  had  made  up  my  mind  to  emigrate 


TEIALS  OF  MINISTERS.  385 

to  America.  I  then  asked  him  if  many  of  the  Salton  people 
were  likely  to  come  out.  He  replied  that  the  patron  had  told 
the  congregation  that  if  he  came  out  they  should  have  the  choice 
of  a  successor,  and  the  hostile  influence  was  so  strong  that  he 
did  not  expect  any  at  all.  '  The  fact  is/  he  added,  '  they  will 
just  say,  when  they  see  me  leaving  the  manse,  He  was  a  good 
sort  of  man,  Mr.  Fairbairn  ;  it's  a  pity  he  gaed  awa'.' "  * 

It  was  in  the  face  of  such  prospects  that  men  had  to  make 
up  their  minds.  They  must  walk  by  faith — there  was  no  alter- 
native. They  literally  "  went  out,  not  knowing  whither  they 
went."  This  was  none  the  less  true  that  the  moment  the 
decisive  step  had  been  taken  the  tide  at  once  turned,  and  popular 
sympathy  rapidly  rose  and  flowed.  After  that  conversation 
with  Professor  Pairbairn,  Dr.  Thomson  goes  on :  "  What  was 
our  surprise,  when  the  Disruption  actually  occurred,  to  find 
that  in  his  parish,  out  of  a  population  of  800,  he  had  an 
adherence  of  600,  and  in  my  parish  of  1050,  there  were  880 
members  and  adherents  of  the  Free  Church.  We  never 
expected  anything  of  the  kind,  and  we  could  only  say,  The 
Lord  hath  done  great  things  for  us,  whereof  we  are  glad."  -p 

One  thing  not  easily  borne  in  some  cases  was  the  interference 
of  friends  who  held  opposite  sentiments,  and  anxiously  sought 
to  prevent  ministers  from  joining  the  Free  Church.  "  I  was 
exposed,"  says  Mr,  Eobertson,  of  Gartly,  "  to  many  temptations 
to  remain  in  the  Establishment  from  the  remonstrances  of 
worldly  friends  and  relatives,  who  insisted  that  at  my  advanced 
years,  and  having  such  a  numerous  family,  it  would  be  anything 
but  duty  to  expose  myself  to  the  privations  I  must  endure,  and 
bring  my  family  to  ruin.  The  patron  of  the  parish,  too, 
dechned  till  the  eleventh  hour  to  listen  to  any  applications  made 
to  him  for  the  living,  in  the  hope  that  I  might  be  induced  to 
change  my  mind,  and  accept  a  new  presentation.  I  had  a  com- 
munication from  a  friend  in  London  intimating  this  to  me,  and 
beseeching  me,  for  the  sake  of  my  wife  and  family,  to  write  the 
Duke  of  Richmond  immediately,  or  allow  him  to  apply  for  me, 
that  he  might  present  me  anew  to  the  living  I  had  resigned."  :J: 

*  DLsr.  Ms3.  Ivii.  +  Ibid.  X  Di'^r.  Mss.  xv.  p.  4. 

2  C 


386  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

So  also  at  Errol,  Dr.  Grierson  states  :  "The  amount  of  personal 
attachment  manifested  to  me  on  all  hands  was  very  gratifying, 
but  on  the  part  of  many  it  showed  itself  rather  by  the  prepos- 
terous though  combined  attempt  to  induce  me  to  remain  in 
the  Establishment,  than  by  anything  like  a  readiness  to  follow 
■  me  out  of  it."  * 

Mr.  Grant,  of  Ayr,  was  appealed  to  in  a  different  way. 
"  After  the  Disruption  took  place,  the  clerk  of  the  Established 
Presbytery  of  Ayr  wrote  me  a  formal  letter,  to  the  effect  that 
the  Presbytery  had  heard  that  I  had  signed  the  Deed  of  Demis- 
sion, and  joined  the  Free  Church,  and  intimating  that  unless  I 
appeared  at  next  meeting  of  Presbytery  my  name  would  be 
deleted  from  the  roll  of  ministers.  A  few  days  later,  the  clerk, 
an  old  and  respected  minister  of  the  Moderate  school,  and  a 
man  of  very  genial  and  kindly  disposition,  ran  across  the  street, 
grasped  my  hand,  and  apologised  for  sending  me  that  letter,  on 
the  ground  that  he  was  obliged  to  do  so  in  his  official  capacity. 
I  assured  him  that  I  had  understood  it  so,  and  had  no  occasion 
to  be  offended.  '  But,'  said  he,  *  you  will  come  back,  and  with- 
draw your  name,  and  it  will  be  all  right  again.'  I  told  him  I 
would  not  do  so.  I  still  remember  the  strange  feelings  with 
which  I  heard  the  old  man  urge  me  to  withdraw  from  my 
position,  saying,  '  It  is  all  very  well  for  Drs.  Chalmers,  Cand- 
lish,  &c.,  to  hold  to  their  position.  They  have  publicly  com- 
mitted themselves,  but  you  have  not.'  I  looked  at  the  old 
man  with  amazement,  but  seeing  the  real  kindliness  of  his  eye, 
I  could  not  find  it  in  my  heart  to  utter  the  words  that  were 
in  my  mouth — Is  there,  then,  no  such  thing  as  religious  prin- 
ciple ?"t 

When  Dr.  Duncan,  of  Ruthwell,  went  to  attend  the  Assem- 
bly in  1843,  he  was  followed  to  Edinburgh  by  a  petition  which 
evidently  gave  him  some  annoyance.  The  parishioners  thought 
"  that,  as  he  had  been  presented  by  a  patron,  their  call  on  him 
thus  to  remain  would  turn  his,  at  least,  into  a  popular  settle- 
ment. It  was  believed  to  be  urged  on  under  the  influence  of  a 
neighbouring  minister,  who  having  turned  back  himself  would 
have  been  glad  of  countenance.  .  .  .  The  reply  was  rather 
*  Disr.  :Mss.  xi.  p.  3.  t  Disr.  Mss.  xli.  pp.  3,  4. 


TKIALS  OF  MINISTERS.  387 

brief,  expressing  surprise  and  disappointment  that,  after  all  his 
efforts  to  enlighten  them,  they  should  not  see  that  not  only 
his  duty  but  theirs  was  to  quit  the  Establishment,  which 
secular  legal  encroachment  had  made  no  longer  the  Church  of 
our  fathers."  "  It  is  well  meant,"  he  himself  says  in  referring 
to  it,  "  although  very  injudicious,  and  I  am  sorry  to  see  that 
there  are  so  many  who  have  so  little  apprehension  of  the  real 
merits  of  the  question  or  of  the  position  which  I  have  conscien- 
tiously taken  up."  * 

The  pressure  of  private  appeals  was  still  harder  to  bear.  Only 
let  the  reader  conceive  the  feelings  with  which  such  a  letter  as 
this  was  read  in  a  far-off  country  manse,  coming  as  it  did  from 
one  who  held  a  prominent  place  in  the  legal  and  political  circles 
of  Edinburgh  : — "I  now  once  more,  ere  it  be  too  late,  address  you 
on  the  painful  subject  of  this,  in  my  humble  opinion,  most  incon- 
siderate and  fatal  step  which  you  are  about  to  take,  to  the  ruin 
of  my  sister  and  your  children."  The  writer  then  goes  into  an 
argument,  strongly  expressed,  and,  from  his  own  point  of  view, 
well  put,  against  Free  Church  principles  : — "  You  know  my 
opinion  of  the  leaders,  .  .  .  and  to  what  extent  pious  men 
have  been  made  dupes  of.  The  prospects  of  the  secession  with 
respect  to  pecuniary  matters,  I  also  know,  are  delusive ;  and 
whatever  a  few  of  the  popular  preachers,  as  they  are  called, 
may  make  of  it  in  towns,  you  and  other  quiet  country  clergy- 
men will  be  very  soon  thrown  overboard.  I  therefore  implore 
you  to  have  done  with  this.  I  write  all  this  in  very  sincere 
sympathy  for  your  wife  and  children,  whom  I  think  you  are, 
without  honest  cause,  deserting  and  leaving  to  certain  ruin. 
...  If  my  poor  father  and  mother  had  been  alive,  you  may 
figure  what  they  would  have  felt  on  seeing  their  daughter,  who 
was  always  accustomed  to  ease  and  competency,  thus  thrown 
adrift  on  the  wide  world,  with  a  large  family  and  the  burden  of 
increasing  years.  I  cannot  bear  to  think  of  it,  or  bring  my 
mind  to  believe  it.  But  I  can  only  conclude  by  saying  that  if 
I  thought  your  course  was  honourable  in  pursuing  the  pliantom 
of  independence,  I  would  not  ask  you  to  desert  it,  even  with  the 
fatal  consequences  which  must  ensue,  and  the  extent  of  which 
*■  Memoir  of  Dr.  Duncan,  p.  300. 


388  ANNALS  OP  THE  DISRUPTION. 

it  is  impossible  to  foresee."  Quietly  and  calmly,  in  the  face 
of  this,  the  path  of  duty  was  followed  ;  and  to  the  praise  of 
God's  goodness  it  should  be  told  that  to  the  upright  there  arose 
light  in  darkness,  and  that  the  blessing  which  follows  the  seed 
of  the  righteous  has  not  been  withheld. 

That  diminished  incomes  should  lead  to  many  privations 
was  only  what  men  had  looked  for.  In  the  nature  of  things  it 
could  not  otherwise  be.  They  had  counted  the  cost.  There  now 
lies  before  us  a  pale  note,  written  in  pencil  in  Tanfield  Hall 
on  the  18th  of  May,  posted  after  the  Assembly  broke  up,  and 
carefully  treasured  for  these  thirty  years  by  her  who  received 
it.  "  My  own  beloved  and  disinherited  wife,"  it  begins,  "  the 
deed  has  been  done !  We  are  now  sitting  in  the  hall  of  our 
new  Assembly,  with  feelings  of  the  deepest  solemnity,  and 
yet  holy  joy  and  unutterable  peace  ;"  and  so  the  sentences  run 
on,  traced  by  one  who  took  a  prominent  part  in  the  discussions 
of  that  day.  Disinherited,  indeed,  tbey  felt  themselves  to  be, 
— except  that  they  had  respect  to  the  better  inheritance. 

It  was  natural  at  the  same  time,  that  anxious  thoughts 
should  rise  in  the  new  homes  of  ministers  as  the  months 
went  on,  and  it  became  a  question  where  the  support  of 
wife  and  children  was  to  be  obtained.  From  Blairgowrie 
we  have  the  following  reference  to  the  Glasgow  Assem- 
bly : — "  We  had  been  led  to  expect  that  by  that  time 
the  ministers  would  have  some  idea  of  what  their  income  from 
the  Sustentation  Pund  might  be ;  therefore,  there  was  some 
'ittle  disappointment  felt  by  those  at  home  when,  in  the  letters 
received  from  Mr.  Macdonald,  there  were  constant  references 
to  some  scheme  which  he  was  planning  for  the  building  ot 
schools,  and  providing  for  our  outed  teachers,  but  not  a  single 
word  as  to  the  provision  to  be  made  for  the  ministers'  wives  and 
children.  Just  at  this  time  a  lady  called — one  of  those  kindly 
disposed  friends  who  had  remained  in  the  Establishment.  After 
talking  about  indifferent  matters,  she  said,  '  Really,  Mrs.  Mac- 
donald, your  husband  did  very  wrong  in  leaving  the  Church.  He 
should  have  given  it  up.  It  is  all  very  well  to  talk  of  making 
sacrifices,  but  when  a  man  has  a  wife  and  family  to  provide  for  it 
will  not  do.     You  cannot  keep  a  house,  and  servant,  and  child 


TRIALS  OF  MINISTERS.  389 

on  nothing,  and  we  hear  that  all  you  are  to  have  is  £40  j.-year.' 
INIrs.  M.'s  heart  almost  failed  her  as  she  saw  in  prospect  the 
hard  struggle  that  awaited  them ;  but,  concealing  her  feelings, 
she  replied  :  '  Well,  my  husband  took  the  step  in  faith  at  the 
call  of  duty,  and  although  it  were  again  in  his  choice,  he  would 
just  act  as  he  has  done.  We  are  trusting  in  God  for  our  sup- 
plies, and  He  that  sent  the  ravens  to  feed  Elijah  can  equally 
provide  for  us.  We  did  it  in  faith,  and  will,  without  doubt, 
be  cared  for.'  There  was  not  much  agreement  with  these 
views,  and  soon  after  the  lady  left ;  and  no  time  was  allowed 
to  pass  till  a  letter  was  wending  its  way  to  Glasgow,  saying : 
'  You  are  always  speaking  about  some  scheme  for  raising  money 
for  schools,  but  you  have  never  yet  told  us  what  is  to  be  the 

dividend,  and  Mrs. has  been  telling  us  that  we  are  only 

to  have  £40  a-year.  Be  sure  and  write,  for  we  cannot  think 
how  we  shall  manage  on  that.'  Next  post  brought  the  reply  : 
'  Let  my  good  wife  take  courage.  We  are  to  have  £40,  not  for 
the  whole,  but  for  the  half-year ;  and  He  that  hath  provided 
this  will  give  all  else  that  is  needed."  * 

That  the  ministers  of  country  charges  were  the  greatest  sufferers 
was  obvious  on  all  hands,  and  yet  few  things  are  more  remark- 
able than  the  generous  and  chivalrous  spirit  in  which  those  who 
had  wealthy  town  congregations  willingly  took  their  share  in 
the  privations  of  their  brethren.  At  St.  George's,  Edinburgh, 
during  the  ministry  of  Dr.  Candlish,  the  money  raised  for  Church 
purposes  reached,  on  an  average,  upwards  of  £7000  a-year.  In 
1843  the  Deacons'  Court  resolved  to  make  the  annual  income 
of  their  minister  £400 — their  opinion  being,  that  for  a  man 
placed  as  Dr.  Candlish  was,  with  many  demands  on  his 
hospitality  and  otherwise,  a  stipend  of  £400  a-year  was  a  very 
moderate  and  reasonable  one.  This  Dr.  Candlish  declined, 
telling  them  that  until  time  revealed  what  was  in  store  for  his 
brethren  in  the  ministry  throughout  the  Church,  he  would  accept 
only  £300  a-year,  without  a  house,  as  minister  of  St.  George's.-f* 

At  Greenock,  the  stipend  of  Dr.  M'Farlan  was  £780 — 
said  to  be  the  largest  at  that  time  in  the  Established  Church. 

*  Disr.  Mss.  Iv.  p.  12. 
t  History  of  St.  George's,  by  D.  Maclagan,  Esq.,  pp.  95,  06. 


390  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

It  had  been  cheerfully  resigned,  and  after  the  Disruption,  his 
income — without  a  house — averaged  £317  ;  involving  an 
annual  sacrifice  of  £463. 

In  Glasgow,  the  incomes  of  the  ministers  had  all  along  been 
barely  adequate,  and  after  the  Disruption,  therefore,  the  change 
was  the  more  felt.  Dr.  Lorimer  states  that  in  his  case  "his 
stipend  was  much  short  of  what  it  used  to  be — hitherto  [1846] 
the  diminution  has  been  from  £150  to  £160  a-year."* 

If  it  was  thus  in  towns,  there  were  greater  privations 
which  had  to  be  submitted  to  in  the  country.  At  Errol,  Dr. 
Grierson  says  :  "  In  reference  to  temporal  emoluments,  I  have 
to  observe  that  the  amount  now  is  not  one-half  of  what  it  was 
formerly,"  -f* 

Of  Mr.  Dickie,  of  Dunlop,  it  is  stated  that  "  at  the  Disruption 
he  saw  no  prospect  before  him  but  to  quit  the  scene  of  his 
ministry  altogether,  from  the  scantiness  of  the  population.  Yet 
never  for  one  moment  did  he  hesitate.  No  one  cast  in  his  lot 
more  cheerfully,  and  few  surrendered  more  than  he — for  taking 
the  diff'erence  of  his  former  and  after  stipend,  he  sacrificed  not 
less  than  £150  a-year  for  the  cause;  and  if  the  sum  be  reckoned  up 
for  the  twenty  years  that  have  followed,  it  gives  £3000  as  the  con- 
tribution of  one  man.  Yet  no  one  ever  heard  him  complain,  and 
never  did  one  feeling  of  regret  take  possession  of  his  mind.^'J 

How  such  a  change  of  circumstances  aff'ected  ministers  and 
their  families  may  be  shown  by  a  few  examples.  In  the  Estab- 
lishment, Dr.  Landsborough's  stipend  had  averaged  above  £350, 
including  manse  and  glebe — being  higher  than  three-fourths  of 
the  parishes  in  Ayrshire.  "  The  first  year  after  the  Disruption  it 
was  £105  without  a  house,  and  for  several  years  it  did  not 
average  more  than  £120,  though  still  he  had  no  manse. 
Previously  he  had  derived  about  £100  from  private  means, 
which  of  late  had  been  gradually  reduced  to  little  more  than 
half.  .  .  .  For  long  he  had  made  it  a  rule  to  give  away  £50 
yearly — thus  dedicating  to  the  Lord  an  eighth  part  of  his 
income.  Now  he  gave  in  the  same  proportion  as  before,  though 
he  could  not  give  to  the  same  amount."  ..."  One  of  the  two 

*  Disr.  Mss.  i.  p.  5.  t  Disr.  Mss.  xi.  p.  13. 

I  Record  of  Free  Church,  November,  1863,  p.  319. 


TEIALS  OF  MINISTERS.  391 

valued  domestics,  who  had  been  long  in  his  service,  must  be 
parted  with.     The  pony  and  cow  must  he  sold  !"  * 

Dr.  Duncan,  of  Kuthwell,  had  been  accustomed  to  a  phaeton 
for  himself  and  family.  He  at  once  gave  it  up,  and,  at  seventy 
years  of  age,  prepared  to  do  the  work  of  his  parish  on  foot. 
The  gift  of  a  low  gig,  exempt  from  taxation,  presented  to  him 
by  his  brother,  in  part  relieved  him.  -f- 

That  the  privations  which  such  straitened  circumstances 
involved  must  often  have  been  severely  felt  is  obvious,  and 
there  is  no  pretence  of  indifference  to  such  trials  on  the  part  of 
ministers.  One  thing  was  especially  painful — the  impossibility 
of  obtaining  for  the  children  of  the  manse  the  education  which 
their  parents  would  fain  have  given  them.  Of  these  things 
little  is  said  in  most  of  the  Mss.,  but  Mr.  Robertson,  of 
Gartly,  expresses  what  many  others  must  have  experienced : 
"  My  altered  circumstances  prevent  me  from  educating  my 
children  as  I  would  wish,  and  deprive  me  in  my  old  age  of 
many  comforts  which  I  enjoyed  when  a  younger  man,  and 
expose  my  family  to  privations  which,  I  trust  in  the  Lord's 
sovereign  hand,  will  prove  blessings  in  disguise.  ...  By  the 
Lord's  goodness,  my  state  of  health  since  the  Disruption  has 
been,  upon  the  whole,  better  than  for  many  years  before,  though 
for  some  months  past  [1846],  owing  to  my  labouring  somewhat 
above  my  strength  during  the  summer  and  autumn  months,  my 
want  of  means  for  keeping  a  horse,  and  other  causes,  I  have 
felt  my  strength  much  exhausted."  :|: 

Apart,  however,  from  pecuniary  loss,  there  were  other  circum- 
stances which  were  hard  to  bear.  Sometimes  the  trial  came  in 
the  form  of  contemptuous  treatment,  in  quarters  where  minis- 
ters had  been  accustomed  to  receive  consideration  and  respect. 
"  I  was  exposed  to  many  indignities,"  Mr.  Dodds,  of  Humbie, 
states,  "  from  many  quarters."  The  particulars  he  refrains 
from  giving,  but  Dr.  Grierson,  of  Errol,  one  of  those  ministers 
whose  years  and  standing  entitled  him  to  the  highest  regard, 
goes  more  into  detail.  "  I  am  sensible  that  I  have  incurred  the 
loss  of  a  considerable  share  of  social  respect  and  influence, 

*  Memoir,  pp.  186,  181.  t  Disr.  Mss.  xvi.  p.  6. 

X  Disr.  Mss.  xvii.  pp.  5,  6. 


392  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

especially  among  the  wealthiest  classes  in  the  community.  .  .  . 
In  one  instance  I  have  been  explicitly  and  absolutely  refused 
admittance  under  the  roof  of  one  of  the  principal  families,  whom 
I  have  frequently  visited  in  affliction,  although  my  known  and 
acknowledged  object  was  to  meet  with  one  or  two  of  the  ser- 
vants who  belonged  to  my  congregation,  and  to  whom  it  was 
my  duty  to  pay  a  ministerial  visit."  * 

Sometimes  the  gentlest  natures  were  subjected  to  the  rudest 
treatment.  No  minister  in  the  Church  was  more  conspicuous 
than  Dr.  Landsborough  for  the  inoffensiveness  and  meekness  of 
the  Christian  character.  Yet  he  must  take  his  share  of  the 
indignities  which  at  that  time  were  common.  "  He  was  one  day 
seen  scanning  the  houses  in  Saltcoats  more  carefully  than  usual. 
A  well-known  gentleman  accosts.  '  Mr.  L.,  you  seem  to  be 
looking  about  you  more  than  is  your  wont.'  '  Yes,'  was  the 
reply ;  '  I  am  looking  for  a  house  for  myself  and  family.'  '  Oh, 
in  that  case,'  said  he,  '  I  know  one  that  will  exactly  suit  you.' 
'  Where  is  it  ? '  asked  Mr.  L.  '  Bedlam,'  was  the  insulting 
answer,  as  the  gentleman  moved  oflf,"-f- 

Such  expressions  of  hostile  feeling  were  not  always  con- 
fined to  words.  At  Aberdour,  on  the  coast  of  Fife,  they  took 
tangible  shape.  "  The  congregation  had  to  worship  for  a  time 
in  the  open  air,  near  the  sea-side.  They  had  difficulty  in 
obtaining  a  site,  in  consequence  of  the  opposition  of  the  Earl  of 
Moray's  commissioner,  Mr.  Ainslie,  who  prevailed  with  two  pro- 
prietors not  to  grant  ground,  and  bought  a  third  piece  to  hinder 
the  Free  Church  from  getting  it.  Subsequently,  after  the 
church  was  built,  and  a  manse  for  the  minister  was  nearly  com- 
pleted, the  same  Mr.  Ainslie  caused  a  dead  wall  to  be  built  of 
stone  and  lime  close  up  to  the  manse,  and  as  high  as  the  top  of 
the  highest  windows,  thus  darkening  the  house — the  windows 
being  chiefly  on  that  side  for  the  sake  of  the  view — and  render- 
ing it  uninhabitable  till  windows  were  opened  on  the  other  side. 
This  wall,  which  obtained  the  soubriquet  of  *  Claverhouse 
Tower,'  was  removed  by  Mr.  Ainslie's  successor.  A  lithograph 
of  it  was  taken,  and  it  gave  occasion  to  '  arte  hallant'  "  X 

*  Disr.  Mss.  xi.  pp.  13,  14.  t  Memoir,  p.  182. 

+  Parker  Mss.,  Presb.  of  Dunferuiliue. 


TEIALS  OF  MINISTERS.  393 

But,  leaving  these  details,  let  us  take  the  experience  of  Mr. 
M'Lean  at  Kilmodan  (Gleudaruel),  Argyllshire  (subsequently 
of  Callander),  as  showing  the  contrast  between  a  minister's 
position  before  and  after  the  Disruption. 

"  When  that  now  memorable  event,  the  Disruption,  began  to 
cast  its  shadow  before  it,  I  was  the  happy  pastor  of  a  peaceful 
Highland  parish.  The  population  did  not  exceed'  a  hundred 
families,  sweetly  located  along  the  sides  of  a  valley — all,  with  a 
single  exception,  firmly  attached  to  the  Church  of  their  fathers, 
and  all  so  easy  of  access  that  a  few  days  of  active  visitation 
could  overtake  the  whole.  Grouped  prominently  together,  in 
this  pleasant  field  of  ministerial  labour,  are  seen  the  manse 
with  its  garden,  and  the  Church  with  its  grave-yard.  On  every 
side,  hills  rise  abruptly  to  a  considerable  height ;  while  above, 
the  blue  vault  seems  to  rest  all  round  on  their  summits,  and  to 
roof  in  the  whole  scene.  'Faultless  is  the  glen,  but  for  the 
difficulty  of  getting  in  and  out,'  says  an  old  Gaelic  proverb  of 
the  place ;  and  though  the  perfect  roads  and  bridges  of  modern 
times  have  removed  the  implied  complaint  of  the  rough  passes, 
and  even  changed  them  into  the  chief  beauties  of  the  district, 
the  old  proverb  graphically  pictures  the  ruling  feature  still — 
peculiarly  isolated  and  lovely  seclusion.  A  slow  stream,  well- 
known  to  the  lovers  of  'old  Isaak's'  craft,  winds  in  silvery 
links  along  the  plain ;  at  first  through  fragrant  meadows  and 
fertile  fields,  then,  seeking  through  a  narrow  outlet  the  shade 
of  rich  woodland,  it  wanders,  'at  its  own  sweet  will,'  round 
fairy  knolls  clothed  with  lovely  copse,  or  by  giant  crags  crested 
with  sombre  pines,  till  at  last  it  issues  into  light  only  to  lose 
itself  for  ever  in  a  little  arm  of  the  sea — one  of  those  exquisite 
recesses  between  woods  and  streams  and  heathery  precipices, 
which  add  such  a  charm  to  our  western  shores.  Across  the 
entrance  to  this  lake,  and  securing  a  calm  within,  stretches  a 
noble  breakwater  of  rocky  islets,  one  of  which,  the  innermost, 
crowned  with  the  ruins  of  a  castle,  possesses  not  only,  like  the 
rest,  the  charm  of  picturesque  beauty,  but  the  romantic  interest 
of  old  historic  association.  It  was  alongside  of  it  that,  trust- 
ing to  the  intricacy  of  the  rocky  labyrinth  which  the  king's 
frigates  would  have  to  thread  before  they  could  reach  him.  the 


394  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISKUPTION. 

noble  patriot  Argyle  moored  his  little  squadron,  in  that  un- 
fortunately premature  expedition,  which,  had  it  been  as  success- 
ful as  it  was  disastrous,  would  have  spared  our  country  the 
worst  of  our  '  killing  time,'  saved  from  a  bloody  death  many 
of  her  noblest  and  best,  and  anticipated  by  some  years  the 
blessings  of  the  glorious  Revolution. 

"Such  were  the  external  attractions  of  this  quiet  retreat, 
while,  not  less  peaceful,  and  still  more  endearing,  were  the 
relations  between  pastor  and  people,  from  the  highest  to  the 
humblest.  And  in  these  circumstances,  so  pleasing  to  my 
tastes,  suited  to  my  capacity,  and  satisfactory  to  my  ambition, 
with  a  numerous  family  besides,  all  of  us  literally  dependent 
on  the  benefice  as  our  sole  means  of  support,  to  imperil  all, 
hastily  or  on  light  grounds  (as  we  are  sometimes  accused  of 
having  done),  to  sacrifice  it  from  any  motive  short  of  the 
inexorable  constraint  of  conscience,  would  have  been  a  folly,  a 
sin,  and  a  shame. 

"  Such  a  constraint  did,  in  the  sovereign  providence  of  God, 
unmistakably  come.  And  if  in  ordinary  circumstances  and 
peaceful  times  my  position  was  so  eminently  desirable,  as  I 
have  described  it,  it  was  certainly  about  the  very  last  one 
would  have  chosen  for  the  conflict  in  which  we  were  now  to 
engage.  In  a  parish  leavened  with  '  Moderatism '  from  time 
immemorial,  not  a  village,  not  a  feu  even,  within  its  bounds, 
and  the  whole  resident  influence  decidedly  hostile — such  was 
the  field  on  which  we  stood  forth  at  the  stern  call  of  duty,  set 
up  the  banner  God  had  given  us,  and  displayed  it,  '  because  of 
the  truth.' 

"  In  these  circumstances,  I  spared  no  pains  from  the  first  in 
publicly  plying  the  people  with  week-day  lectures  on  the  great 
question  at  issue ;  but  I  could  never  bring  myself  to  deal 
privately  and  personally  with  them,  never  asking  even  my 
elders  what  part  they  purposed  to  take  in  the  approaching 
Disruption.  .  .  .  And  so  it  was,  that  even  so  late  in  the  day  as 
the  '  Convocation,'  I  did  not  know,  on  going  to  that  meeting,  of 
a  single  individual  prepared  to  take  the  step  to  which  I  then 
pledged  myself.  The  lowest  ebb,  however,  was  the  turning 
point  of  the  tide ;  and  it  flowed  from  that  time  forward.     It 


TEIALS  OF  MINISTEKS.  395 

was  known  what  I  had  done,  and  it  was  not  doubted  that  I 
would  redeem  my  pledge.  On  my  return  home,  a  written 
assurance  was  sent  me  from  all  my  elders — six  in  number,  and 
none  of  them  appointed  during  my  incumbency — that,  come 
what  might,  the  session  would  remain  unbroken.  The  great 
mass  of  the  people,  too,  adhered,  their  understandings  and  their 
hearts  owning  the  identity  of  the  principles  expounded  to  them 
with  those  embodied  in  our  Standards,  and  inseparably  inter- 
woven with  the  eventful  history  of  our  Church.  All  now  gave 
good  promise  that,  under  God's  blessing,  these  principles  had 
taken  deep  root  in  the  land." 

Referring  to  the  severe  treatment  to  which  he  and  his  people 
were  exposed,  Mr.  M'Lean  supposes  that  a  question  may  arise, 
whether  it  was  "  not  provoked  on  our  part  by  indiscretion  or 
violence.  Such  is  always  the  persecutor's  apology.  But  it  was 
Qot  so.  For  the  people,  I  can  testify  there  are  none  more 
peaceably  disposed  anywhere,  or  more  deferential  to  their 
superiors  in  all  things  lawful.  And  for  myself,  I  will  call  a 
witness  whose  testimony  here  is  conclusive.  The  gentleman, 
«vhom  I  may  call  the  author  and  manager  of  the  persecution  in 
the  Glen,  the  proprietor  of  more  than  one-half  of  the  parish, 
called  on  me  on  the  eve  of  the  Disruption,  and  asked  me,  seem- 
ingly much  affected,  if  there  was  no  alternative,  but  that  I 
must  '  go  out.'  Nothing,  he  said,  had  ever  so  grieved  him  as 
the  thought  that  such  might  be  the  case.  He  was  on  all  sides 
congratulated  on  its  being  a  model  parish,  educationally,  as 
well  as  otherwise,  under  my  auspices,  and  he  had  hoped  for 
himself  and  his  children  long  to  enjoy  the  blessing  of  my 
ministry.  He  was  pleased  to  say  so,  and  much  more  whicli  I 
will  not  repeat.  But,  finding  that  he  had  failed  in  the  main 
object  of  his  visit,  he  forgot  all  this ;  and  from  that  day  forth 
he  exerted  himself  to  the  very  utmost  when  we  became  house- 
less to  keep  us  so,  and  have  us  exterminated  altogether  as  a 
nuisance  from  the  district.  Even  on  his  own  showing,  however, 
he  could  'find  no  occasion  against  us,  except  concerning  the 
law  of  our  God.'  .  .  . 

"  I  pass  on  to  the  period  of  the  Disruption  in  which  I  had  the 
honour  of  bearing  ray  humble  part  as  a  member  of  Assembly. 


396  ANNALS  OF  THE  DTSEUPTION. 

So  confident  was  1  of  that  event  being  inevitable,  that,  notwith- 
standing all  the  arts  of  those  *  lying  in  wait  to  deceive,'  I  had, 
before  leaving  home,  sold  off  all  the  stock  and  implements  of  a 
valuable  glebe  ;  and  now,  on  my  return,  with  those  things  out 
of  the  way,  we  at  once  set  about  packing  furniture  and  pre- 
paring for  instant  removal.  We  had  just  finished  our  heavy 
task  by  Saturday  evening.  On  Sabbath  the  church  was  to  be 
preached  vacant,  while  I  was  to  address  ray  flock  on  the  green 
in  front  of  the  manse.  On  Monday  morning  we  were  to  bid  a 
final  farewell  to  the  sweet  spot,  and  proceed  to  a  temporary 
home,  mercifully  opened  to  us  in  a  neighbouring  parish,  when 
unexpectedly  (at  this  hour)  a  deputation  of  the  heritors  was 
announced.  They  found  me  pondering  all  these  things  in  a 
dismantled  apartment,  and  amid  the  heart-sickening  desolations 
of  an  uprooted  home.  Without  one  softening  word  of  sym- 
pathy, to  their  object  they  went  hard  and  straight.  And  it  was 
this — that  either  I  should  not  preach  at  all  on  the  morrow,  or 
go  away  somewhere  out  of  sight  and  hearing,  lest  I  should 
disturb  the  feelings  of  the  reverend  gentleman  who  was  to 
preach  in  the  church  and  declare  it  vacant !  This  modest 
request,  though  little  careful  of  my  feelings,  was  certainly  most 
considerately  tender  towards  his.  He  had  inducted  me  to  the 
charge,  introduced  me  to  the  congregation,  held  our  principles 
all  along  till  he  must  needs  sufl'er  for  them,  solemnly  pledged 
himself  to  them  at  the  Assembly  of  1842,  and  at  the  Con- 
vocation of  the  same  year ;  and  now,  having  deserted  the 
cause,  he  was  the  man  whom  its  enemies  delighted  to  honour 
in  dealing  the  coup  de  grace  to  an  old  friend  ! 

"  Many  a  solemn  and  touching  scene  did  those  trying  times 
make  us  acquainted  with.  I  am  not  sure,  however,  but  that 
the  Sabbath  meeting  on  the  green  was  the  most  trying  of  all 
in  my  experience.  Not  only  did  most  trying  circumstances, 
inseparable  from  such  a  meeting,  concur  to  impart  to  it  a  deep 
and  painful  interest,  but  special  care  was  taken  to  produce  the 
impression  among  the  people  that,  if  I  ventured  to  preach, 
measures  were  all  ready  and  constables  at  hand  for  my  forcible 
removal.  More  than  this,  a  most  friendly  note  from  a  non- 
resident heritor  was  handed  to  me  at  the  eleventh  hour,  advis- 


TEIALS  OF  MINISTERS.  397 

ing  me,  for  my  own  sake,  to  yield  the  point,  as  he  understood 
they  were  fully  resolved  to  proceed  to  extremities.  Eeluctantly 
declining  the  kind  counsel,  however,  and  entirely  disregarding 
the  threats,  I  felt  it  to  be  my  duty  to  take  my  stand  there ; 
and  there,  accordingly,  in  the  presence  of  my  persecutors,  who 
kept  walking  round  about  us,  speaking  loudly  within  earshot, 
and  with  significant  looks,  I  conducted  public  -rt^orship,  with 
such  emotions  as  I  may  never  feel  again ;  while  my  poor  flock, 
apprehensive  every  moment  of  what  might  happen,  sat  closer 
and  closer  together,  like  a  fluttered  covey  when  the  hawk  sails 
overhead.  Further  than  this,  however,  we  were  not  disturbed 
on  this  occasion,  an  interdict  not  having  been  obtained — ^just 
as  I  had  calculated  upon — till  the  vacancy  was  declared. 

"  I  shall  not  dwell  on  our  '  quitting  the  manse.'  Monday 
came,  with  all  the  dreary  accompaniments  of  such  a  '  flitting ' 
as  ours.  Nearly  twenty  carts  mustered  on  that  morning — not 
all  actually  needed,  perhaps,  but  not  the  less  tokens  of  their 
owners'  sympathy  and  respect.  In  silence  and  with  subdued 
air,  like  men  on  solemn  and  afi'ecting  duty,  each  took  his  allotted 
share  of  the  disjecta  membra  of  our  home,  and  formed  into 
line.  Our  six  children,  the  oldest  just  eight,  wondering  what 
the  doing  of  the  day  might  mean,  took  their  places  in  the  rear  ; 
and  all  things  being  now  ready,  we  quenched  our  hearth,  took 
a  last  look  through  the  deserted  apartments,  sounding  strange 
to  us  already  with  their  '  echo  and  their  empty  tread,'  and, 
having  turned  the  key  in  the  door  of  our  once  happy  but  now 
desolate  dwelling,  slowly  and  sadly  the  long  procession  moved 
on.  Immediately,  by  the  hands  of  a  messenger-at-arms,  a  fare- 
well shot  was  fired  after  us  in  the  shape  of  a  very  formidable 
interdict,  which,  fortunately  for  me,  would  not,  as  I  have 
said,  go  off  till  after  the  Sabbath.  Another  discharge  soon 
followed  from  a  reverend  doctor,  the  clerk  of  Synod,  in  the 
form  of  a  summons  for  some  five  days'  rent,  which  time,  he 
alleged,  though  incorrectly,  we  had  tarried  in  the  manse  beyond 
the  legal  period.  I  notice  these  as  specimens  of  the  sharp 
practice  to  which  we  were  exposed  from  more  quarters  than  one. 

"  In  recording  this  succession  of  depressing  experiences,  it 
would  be  deep  ingratitude  to  forget  the  many  mercies  and 


398  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION, 

tokens  for  good  from  our  Heavenly  Father,  by  which  these 
were  alleviated,  *  He  stayeth  the  rough  wind  in  the  day  of 
His  east  wind.'  It  was  an  unspeakable  blessing  to  be  sus- 
tained and  cheered,  instead  of  being  weakened  and  hindered, 
as  it  might  have  been,  by  her  on  whom  a  full  share  of  the 
heavy  burden  fell,  and  of  whom  I  will  say  no  more — less  I 
scarcely  could  say — than  that  throughout,  whether  in  doing  or 
suffering,  it  was  nobly  suffered  and  nobly  done.  Streaks  of 
light,  too,  in  God's  good  time,  began  to  appear  in  the  horizon, 
giving  hopeful  promise  that  the  darkest  hour  was  past.  Shortly 
previous  to  the  crisis,  with  no  prospect  of  accommodation  in 
the  district  for  my  family,  I  fully  expected  to  be  separated  from 
them  by  a  long  distance  and  for  a  considerable  time,  when, 
unsolicited,  a  farm-house,  providentially  vacant  for  a  season, 
was  placed  at  my  disposal  by  a  noble-minded  benefactor  of  the 
cause.  More  than  that,  he  gave  me  not  only  a  house,  but  a 
church  also,  which  he  had  built  for  his  tenantry  in  that  neigh- 
bourhood ;  and  they  welcomed  me  to  be  their  pastor  with  a 
cordial  call.  Nor  was  this  all.  In  the  Glen,  which  still 
engaged  my  chief  interest,  a  suitable  site  was  obtained,  and 
steps  taken  for  the  erection  of  a  church.  An  elder  of  mine 
possessed  a  small  property,  completely  surrounded  by  wide 
territories,  on  which  we  dared  not  have  set  foot  for  God's  wor- 
ship, no,  not  even  on  their  lone  heathery  fells;  and  there,  in  a 
spot  suggestive  of  the  sweet  description  of  the  Psalmist,  '  We 
found  a  place  for  the  Lord,  we  found  it  in  the  fields  of  the 
wood,'  There,  till  we  could  'go  into  His  tabernacles,'  we 
worshipped  on  His  footstool,  the  green  earth,  heaven  alone  our 
canopy,  and  He  whose  throne  it  is,  our  glory  and  defence. 
These  my  two  congregations  being  ten  miles  apart,  and  it  being 
desirable,  for  a  time  at  least,  that  they  should  have  regular 
supply,  in  Gaelic  and  English,  I  travelled  twenty  miles  and 
preached  four  sermons  every  Sabbath  for  two  summers.  My 
hearers  had  increased  in  numbers,  instead  of  being  diminished, 
by  the  Disruption  ;  while  a  mere  handful  was  left  in  both 
parishes  in  connection  with  the  now Erastianised  Establishment."* 

*  Disr.  Mss.  Ixii.     See  The  Trials  of  the  People,  described  ante,  pp, 
368-371. 


TEIALS  OF  MINISTERS.  399 

Of  the  spirit  in  which  such  changes  were  accepted  by  many, 
we  give  an  example  in  the  case  of  Dr.  Duncan,  of  Ruthwell. 
Through  life  he  had  laboured  on  behalf  of  his  parishioners,  both 
for  their  temporal  and  spiritual  welfare  ;  and  after  the  Disrup- 
tion his  desire  was  to  maintain  the  old  kindly  relations,  even 
with  those  who  refused  to  follow  him.  "  As  time  rolled  on," 
says  Mrs.  Duncan,  "  the  necessities  of  some  of  those  who  had 
been  most  angry  against  him  led  them  to  seek  help  from  their 
old  friend.  It  was  curious  to  observe  that  if  there  was  any 
change  in  his  demeanour  at  all,  it  was  visible  in  an  increased 
desire  to  do  them  service.  One  small  incident,  a  type  of  what 
I  mean,  will  explain  the  whole. 

"  A  family  was  bereaved  of  a  little  one.  Whether  there  being 
no  parish  minister,  it  would  not  be  decent  not  to  have  one  at 
all,  or  whether  some  better  feeling  dictated  the  act,  I  know  not ; 
but  in  spite  of  many  unkind  motives  imputed  to  the  ministers 
who  had  demitted,  and  such  sayings  as  we  have  all  heard  of, 
the  father  asked  Dr.  Duncan  to  attend  the  funeral.  His  prayer 
was  so  full  of  love  for  those  who  had  divided  from  his  ministry, 
that  some  of  the  women,  unable  to  contain  themselves,  rushed 
out  of  the  house,  and  wept  it  out  together  with  their  Free 
friends.  The  day  was  hot,  and  the  churchyard  at  some  distance. 
Dr.  Duncan  offered  to  place  the  remains  of  the  child  in  his 
small  gig,  and  after  some  difficulty  about  the  adjustment,  he 
walked  while  they  took  their  way  to  the  grave.  So  simple  an 
act  was  this  with  him  that  he  did  not  recollect  to  mention  it, 
though  he  came  straight  from  the  scene  to  carry  me  home  from 
visiting  a  widow  to  whom  I  had  walked  in  the  morning.  Nor 
did  I  hear  of  it  till  some  days  after,  when  I  found  the  village 
still  in  a  stir  about  it.  Even  the  bo7id  Church  wives  who 
thought  he  should  not  have  been  invited,  and  the  Fi^ee  Church 
wives  who  thought  he  should  not  have  accepted  the  invitation, 
were  at  least  agreed  in  this,  that  their  old  friend  was  their  old 
friend  still,  and  bore  the  same  Christian  heart  to  them  all." 

But  if  such  were  the  sentiments  of  the  parishioners,  it  was 
otherwise  with  the  "parochial  authorities."  In  one  respect 
they  had  the  power  of  wounding  the  old  pastor,  and  they  did  not 
faU  to  use  it.    "  One  thing  really  vexed  him,  and  only  one,  of  all 


400  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

that  he  resigned.  Nearly  thirty  years  before  he  had  opened  the  first 
bank  for  savings  in  the  world.  It  was  constructed  so  as  annually 
to  form  what  he  called  a  surplus  fund,  from  which  a  secretary  and 
treasurer  might  have  been  paid ;  but  as  he  did  all  gratuitously 
the  fund  accumulated,  and  in  course  of  years,  by  the  vote  of 
the  governors,  he  was  permitted  to  employ  the  fund  in  erecting 
a  school  and  teacher's  dwelling  at  Locharwoods,  four  miles  from 
the  parish  school.  It  had  been  used  for  years  as  a  Sabbath 
school  and  preaching  station."  These  services  he  was  anxious 
to  continue,  and  it  was  evidently  with  some  surprise  that  he 
heard  of  a  proposal  for  his  being  excluded.  "  An  attempt  is 
made  to  shut  us  out  of  the  school-house  built  by  me  out  of  the 
surplus  funds  of  the  savings  bank."  He  wrote  at  once  to 
remonstrate.  "  My  dear  Sir, — Allow  me  to  say  that  my  having, 
from  conscientious  motives,  thrown  up  the  emoluments  of  the 
Established  Church,  does  not,  in  my  opinion,  materially  alter 
my  duty  in  this  respect.  ...  I  did  flatter  myself  that  if  there 
was  a  place  in  the  parish  to  which  I  should  be  cheerfully 
welcomed  by  all  classes,  it  would  be  this  school-house — a  build- 
ing planned  by  my  regard  to  the  best  interests  of  the  district, 
and  erected,  I  may  say,  at  my  own  expense.  .  .  .  My  wish  is 
to  hold  prayer  meetings  occasionally  for  the  religious  edifica- 
tion of  those  who  choose  to  attend.  .  .  .  This,  one  would  think, 
is  a  small  boon,  but  it  is  one  on  which  I  place  a  high  value, 
I  am  sure  you  cannot  wonder  if  I  should  think  it  hard  were 
my  own  door  to  be  shut  in  my  face." 

The  appeal  was  in  vain.  The  place  was  seized,  and  its  door 
closed  against  Dr.  Duncan,  who,  by  that  means,  "passed  it 
unemployed  each  Sabbath  evening,  when  he  went  to  preach  in 
Caerlaverock  parish."  There  was  a  trifling  circumstance  which 
should  perhaps  be  mentioned,  as  giving  completeness  to  the 
narrative.  A  neatly  carved  stone  had  been  put  up  over  the 
entrance,  narrating  the  history  of  the  erection,  but  after  Dr. 
Duncan's  exclusion,  "the  tablet  was  torn  down."* 

But  now,  after  the  Disruption  had  come  and  gone,  and  trials 
began  to  accumulate,  was  there  no  repining  among  the  ministers 
of  the  Free  Church  ?     The  excitement  of  the  conflict  was  over, 

*  For  further  details,  see  JMeiuoir  of  Dr.  Duucau,  pp.  322-325. 


TEIALS  OF  MINISTEKS.  401 

and  the  pressure  of  privation  was  felt  in  their  families — the 
pony  could  no  longer  be  kept,  the  cow  was  sold,  the  old 
servants  were  parted  with,  the  favour  of  heritors  was  lost  or 
turned  to  bitterness,  the  whole  worldly  position  was  changed. 
And  was  there  in  the  midst  of  all  this  no  regret  for  the  step 
they  had  taken?  In  the  calm  retrospect  of  the  past,  did  the 
wish  never  arise  that  they  had  the  power  to  undo  what  they  had 
done? 

If  one  gave  heed  to  what  was  said  all  over  Scotland  in 
worldly  circles,  there  could  be  no  doubt  as  to  how  such  questions 
should  be  answered.  Before  the  Disruption,  the  opponents  of  the 
Church  had  been-  quite  sure  that  few  or  none  of  the  ministers 
would  go  out ;  and  now  after  the  Disruption  they  were  just  as 
sure  that  they  would  fain  get  back  if  they  could.  It  was  most 
natural  for  such  men  to  think  so.  They  were  merely  judging 
others  by  themselves,  and  to  a  great  extent  they  lacked  the  means 
of  measuring  the  power  of  Divine  truth  over  the  human  conscience. 

In  referring  to  such  matters,  the  common  people — as  is  their 
wont — used  great  plainness  of  speech.  In  the  parish  of  Edzell, 
Mr.  Inglis  tells  how  "  James  Moir,  at  Inchbare,  a  blacksmith, 
was  talking  in  his  smithy  with  some  persons  who  had  not  left 
the  Established  Church.  They,  thinking  to  annoy  James,  said 
to  him,  *  Oh,  ye're  a'  just  like  Lot's  wife — ^ye're  lookin'  back 
again  to  Sodom.'  James  very  unexpectedly  turned  the  laugh 
against  themselves  by  saying,  *  No  doubt  it  was  ill  wi'  her  for 
lookin'  back ;  but  it  was  as  ill,  if  no  waur,  wi'  them  that  didna 
come  out  ava."'* 

But  though  it  was  no  use  trying  to  annoy  the  blacksmith, 
there  were  others  who  could  be  made  to  feeL  Mrs.  Duncan 
tells  of  a  time  when  she  met  Mr.  Elliot,  author  of  the  "  Horae 
Apocalypticse,"  and  found  to  her  surprise  how  far  the  prejudices 
of  a  good  man  can  sometimes  carry  him. 

"  It  was  with  feelings  of  sorrow,  surprise,  and  some  degree  of 
indignant  shame  that  I  heard  the  Apocalyptic  interpreter,  Mr. 
Elliot,  assure  me  that  not  more  than  six  of  them  came  out  from 
any  cause  but  having  gone  too  far  to  recede,  and  that  all  but 
about  six  would  flock  back  into  the  Established  Church  were 
*  Memorials  of  the  Disruption  in  Edzell,  &c.,  p.  17. 

2  D 


402  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

the  way  open.  I  am  sure  that,  had  he  been  aware  that  he  was 
trampling  on  the  feelings  of  a  widow  whose  husband,  with  his 
two  sons  and  two  sons-in-law,  had  resigned  their  temporalities 
in  one  day,  he  is  too  humane  to  have  done  so.  Yet  I  marvel 
much  that  a  man  entertaining  Christian  principle  should  judge 
so  like  the  world  with  regard  to  mere  matters  of  emolument, 
and  I  marvel  more  that  a  man  who  seeks  to  explain  events 
veiled  in  prophetic  vision  cannot  study,  without  the  veil  of  pre- 
judice, events  and  their  causes  which  have  occurred  within  a 
few  miles  of  him,  and  amongst  a  people  who  speak  his  own 
tongue."* 

The  truth  is,  that  if  ever  there  were  men  fully  persuaded  in 
their  own  minds,  they  were  the  ministers  of  the  Free  Church ; 
and  their  homes  were  scenes  of  quiet  contentment  and  happiness, 
which  made  itself  felt  by  all  who  ever  crossed  their  thresholds. 

Before  the  Disruption,  many  of  their  manses  were  visited  by  a 
literary  man  from  England,  the  well-known  Christian  poet,  James 
Montgomery.  He  belonged  to  a  different  Church,  his  preposses- 
sions were  all  unfavourable,  and  this  is  the  account  he  gives — 
"  Wherever  I  went  I  came  in  contact  with  those  who  have  now 
seceded  from  the  Church,  and  I  found  them  under  the  influence 
of  the  spirit  in  which  they  have  now  acted,  and  which  has  brought 
about  this  great  movement.  I  was  received  into  their  houses ; 
I  witnessed  their  family  devotions,  and  the  earnestness  and 
simplicity  with  which  they  were  regularly  performed.  I  at 
that  time  knew  little  of  the  question,  and  from  what  I  had 
heard  I  had  been  strongly  prejudiced  against  them.  But  when 
I  went  among  them  and  saw  their  spirit,  my  prejudices  were 
removed,  for  I  found  them  not  only  ready  to  be  confessors  but 
martyrs  for  their  principles.  They  have  witnessed  a  good  con- 
fession. Nearly  five  hundred  good  men  have  gone  out  at  the 
call  of  duty,  like  Abraham,  not  knowing  whither  they  went. 
My  whole  heart  goes  with  them."-f- 

Such  was  the  impression  made  on  a  stranger  before  the  Dis- 
ruption,  but   not  less  emphatic  were  the  testimonies  borne 

*  Disr.  Mss.  xvi.  p.  12. 

+  Testimonies  in  favour  of  the  Free  Church,  &c.,  by  the  Rev.  J.  A. 
Wallace,  Hawick,  pp.  71,  72. 


TRIALS  OF  MINISTEKS.  403 

after  the  event.  If  there  were  two  men  entitled  above  all 
others  to  speak  on  the  subject,  they  were  Dr.  Guthrie  and 
Dr.  Macdonald,  who,  in  the  manse  and  school  building  tours, 
had  gone  familiarly  among  their  brethren  from  end  to  end  of 
Scotland,  and  this  is  the  report  which  they  gave : — 

"  I  have  had  occasion,"  says  Dr.  Guthrie,  "  to  enter  many  of 
\he  cottages  where  our  ministers  are  now  living,  and  I  say  as  an 
honest  man  that  there  never  was  a  greater  calumny  than  to 
allege  that  any  of  these  men  regret  the  step  they  have  taken ; 
but,  .  .  .  contented,  and  quiet,  and  happy  as  they  are  in  their 
privations,  there  are  many  of  them  subsisting  with  their 
families  on  one-third  of  their  former  incomes."* 

Not  less  warmly  did  Dr.  Macdonald  speak  in  addressing  the 
Assembly  :  "  We  have  heard  it  publicly  stated  that  there  are 
many  of  our  country  brethren  lamenting  sadly  that  they  gave 
so  much  when  they  gave  up  their  all  for  Christ,  and  even  that 
there  is  a  large  number  anxious  to  return  to  the  blessedness  ot 
keeping  all,  if  they  could  only  find  a  door  open  to  receive  them 
Now,  it  has  happened  that  I  have  been  privileged  to  see  more 
of  them  than  any  one  in  this  Assembly — and  that  in  no  time  of 
excitement,  or  when  we  were  all  assembled  here,  and  felt 
cheered  and  supported  in  each  other's  society — but  in  the 
retirement  of  their  own  houses ;  and  I  feel  bound  to  say  that 
I  have  seen  them  happier,  I  believe,  than  they  ever  were  before" 
— (here  the  members  of  Assembly  lent  such  a  universal  burst 
of  corroboration  to  Mr.  Macdonald's  statement,  that  his  voice, 
though  pitched  in  a  high  tone,  was  for  some  seconds  inaudible) 
— "  and  so  far  from  repenting  that  step,  they  never  felt  more 
satisfied  that  it  was  the  step  pointed  out  to  them  by  God ;  and 
instead  of  longing  to  retrace  it,  they  now  feel  thankful  to  God 
for  giving  them  grace  to  take  it.    (Renewed  plaudits)."  f 

But  if  it  was  thus  that  others  spoke  of  them,  we  naturally 
turn  to  the  Mss.  to  see  what  they  say  for  themselves.  At 
various  times,  as  the  years  went  on,  their  feelings  are  found 
recorded  as  they  wrote  them  down  in  the  quiet  of  their  own 
homes ;  and  the  following  extracts  will  serve  to  show  what 
their  experience  really  was : — 

*  Memoir,  vol.  ii.  p.  71.  t  Disr.  Mss.  It.  p.  24. 


404  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION, 

On  the  1st  of  January,  1844,  Dr.  Landsborough  writes  :  "God 
has  spared  me  to  enter  upon  a  new  year ;  and  how  changed  my 
circumstances  since  the  beginning  of  last  year.  For  no  event 
in  my  life  am  I  so  thankful  as  that  the  Lord  gave  me  grace  to  be 
faithful  in  the  day  of  trial,  and  enabled  me  to  bear  witness  to 
the  honour  of  the  Head  and  King  of  the  Church."  * 

In  similar  terms  Mr.  Milroy  speaks :  "  Yesterday  was  the 
anniversary  of  our  leaving  the  manse  at  Crailing.  In  looking 
back,  I  have  perfect  satisfaction  in  that  surrender  in  so  blessed 
a  cause  ;  and  I  could  not  but  feel  how  much  cause  of  gratitude 
we  have  to  our  Heavenly  Father,  who  has  led  us  and  fed  us  all 
along ;  who  has  sustained,  and  cheered,  and  blessed  us  amid 
circumstances  of  no  ordinary  discouragement."  -f- 

Dr.  Burns,  of  Kilsyth,  was  in  the  forty-sixth  year  of  his 
ministry,  and  drawing  near  the  end  of  life.  Three  years  after 
the  Disruption,  it  is  pleasant  to  see  the  cheerful  contentment 
with  which  he  meets  his  altered  circumstances.  Referring  to 
his  privations,  he  says :  "  What  are  all  these  compared  with 
the  approbation  of  conscience  and  the  peace  of  God  keeping 
the  heart,  and  the  honour  of  taking  a  part  in  upholding  the 
Crown  Rights  of  his  Lord  ?"  "  Much  personal  kindness  has 
been  experienced  from  a  truly  attached  people.  The  want  of 
a  horse  has  no  doubt  been  felt,  but  with  staff  in  hand,  and 
occasional  cheerfully  proffered  aid  of  a  pony  or  of  a  car  from  a 
kind  neighbour,  the  old  minister  has  got  on  wonderfully."  + 

In  1853,  Mr.  Wallace,  of  Hawick,  addressed  his  congre- 
gation :  "  Now  that  the  turmoil  of  the  conflict  is  over,  and  an 
interval  of  ten  years  has  elapsed,  it  may  be  admitted  that  we 
now  occupy  a  better  position  that  we  ever  had  before  for 
entering  upon  a  calm  and  dispassionate  review  of  the  moment- 
ous step  we  have  taken.  ...  To  these  days  [the  time  of  the 
Disruption]  we  now  look  back  with  a  feeling  of  intensest  interest. 
They  are  connected  with  sweet  associations,  and  with  the  memory 
of  many  dear  friends  now  gone  to  their  everlasting  rest.  And 
though  there  might  be  some  sacrifices  made,  and  some  priva- 
tions endured,  yet  they  were  far  more  than  counter-balanced 

*  Memoir,  p.  187.  t  Memorials  of  a  Quiet  Ministry,  p.  61. 

X  Disr.  Mss.  xxix.  p.  22. 


TKIALS  OF  MINISTERS.  405 

by  the  kindliness  of  your  feeling,  and  by  the  cordiality  and 
earnestness  with  which  you  were  accustomed  to  join  in  the 
ordinances  of  God's  house.  We  therefore  number  them  among 
the  happiest  days  of  our  life.  They  are  fragrant  with  pleasant 
recollections.  We  look  back  upon  them  as  upon  times  of 
revival  and  refreshing  from  the  presence  of  the  Lord."  * 

In  1865,  twenty-two  years  after  the  Disruption,  Mr.  Taylor, 
of  Flisk,  gives  us  another  glimpse  into  the  manse-Hfe  of  Disrup- 
tion ministers :  "  When  I  gave  up  my  living  in  the  Established 
Church,  I  never  expected  to  receive  an  income  exceeding  £100. 
I  had  no  thoughts  of  again  occupying  a  manse.  Yet  have  I  been 
dwelling  since  1844!  in  a  pleasant  manse,  which  for  many  years 
has  been  free  of  debt,  and  receiving  an  income  of  £138,  raised,  by 
the  generous  collection  for  pre-Disruption  ministers,  to  £170.  It 
is  the  doing  of  the  Lord,  and  it  is  marvellous  in  our  eyes."  .  .  . 

"  There  is  another  mercy  for  which  I  daily  give  thanks  to 
the  Lord,  and  that  is  for  fixing  my  lot  in  this  beautiful  locality, 
and  giving  me  the  quiet  duties  of  a  country  pastorate.  It  is 
what  Henri  Lacordaire  coveted — '  I  would  bury  myself  in  the 
depths  of  the  country  ;  I  would  live  only  for  a  little  flock,  and 
find  all  my  joy  in  God  and  in  the  fields.'  .  .  .  Often  when  I  saunter 
on  the  knoll  at  the  top  of  the  garden,  thinking  out  my  Sabbath 
sermon  ;  or  when  on  a  day  of  languor,  which  feeble  health  occa- 
sions, I  walk  here,  yielding  myself  up  to  the  fresh  invigorating 
influences  of  nature ;  or  when,  in  company  with  a  friend,  the 
social  chat  is  interrupted  to  admire  some  opening  in  the  varied 
view ;  or  when  on  Sabbath  evening  I  can  refresh  my  thoughts 
with  the  air  and  calm  of  the  silent  fields,  and  with  quiet  medita- 
tion, I  often  feel,  Can  I  be  thankful  enough  to  the  Lord  for  a 
retreat  so  congenial  ?"  -f- 

These  were  the  feelings  of  ministers,  as  expressed  by  them- 
selves and  described  by  others.  Many  worldly  advantages  once 
enjoyed  had  been  given  up,  and  yet  they  were  happy.  Christ 
has  assured  us  that  they  who  forsake  houses  and  lands  for  His 
sake  shall  be  recompensed  an  hundredfold  even  in  this  life.  God's 
blessing  was  surely  sufficient  to  fill  the  heart  with  satisfaction 

♦  Pastoral  Recollections,  &c.,  by  the  Rev.  J.  A.  Wallace,  pp.  115,  123. 
■<■  Disr.  Mas.  xxxvii.  Part  II.  pp.  21,  24. 


406  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 

and  peace,  and  give  such  a  relish  for  the  mercies  of  life  as 
might  well  sweeten  a  far  harder  lot  than  any  which  the  ministers 
of  the  Free  Church  were  called  to  encounter.  The  Apostles 
speak  of  having  nothing,  and  yet  it  seemed  as  if  they  possessed 
all  things.  "  The  reproach  of  Christ  was  once  felt  to  be  greater 
riches  than  all  the  treasures  of  Egypt,  and  why  should  men  not 
believe  that  something  of  this  was  once  more  experienced  by  those 
who  had  sought  to  follow  their  Divine  Master  in  the  face  of 
trial  and  sacrifice.  Under  many  a  lowly  roof  they  were  dwell- 
ing beneath  the  shadow  of  the  Almighty,  and  the  sense  of  His 
love  was  the  joy  and  the  rejoicing  of  their  hearts. 

Peculiar  tenderness  belongs  to  the  dying  testimonies  of 
certain  fathers  of  the  Church,  who,  after  having  long  endured 
the  burden  and  heat  of  the  day,  were  drawing  near  the  end  of 
their  course.  In  the  beginning  of  the  year  1846,  Dr.  Duncan  was 
in  Liverpool  raising  money  for  a  manse,  intended,  not  for  himself, 
but  for  his  colleague  and  successor  at  Euthwell.  He  was 
within  less  than  three  weeks  of  his  death,  but  a  friend  writes  : 
"  He  was  in  excellent  spirits  the  whole  time,  and  seemed 
to  participate  in  all  that  was  going  forward  with  great 
animation  and  pleasure,  referring  to  old  stories  with  much 
enjoyment  and  cheerfulness.  I  fear  his  life  was  shortened  by 
over-exertion  in  the  cause  he  espoused."  "  This  surmise  was 
perhaps  favoured  by  the  lively  pleasure  with  which  he  spoke  of 
the  state  and  prospects  of  the  Free  Church,  and  the  interest  which 
he  manifested  in  its  progress  and  prosperity.  .  .  . 

"  On  one  of  these  occasions  in  which  he  was  thus  expatiating, 
bearing  his  testimony  to  the  faithfulness  of  God  in  sustaining 
and  comforting  His  faithful  ministers  and  people,  a  friend  who 
was  present  expressed  the  very  common  sentiment  that  the  Free 
Church  movement  had  been  occasioned  by  passion  more  than 
principle,  and  appealed  to  Dr.  Duncan  whether,  on  a  calm  review 
of  the  past,  he  was  not  conscious  of  some  regret.  '  Regret !'  he 
exclaimed,  with  deep  feeling — 'what  have  I  to  regret?  Can  a 
man  regret  having  had  grace  to  act  up  to  his  principles  ?  No, 
God  forbid.  Were  I  placed  in  similar  circumstances  to-morrow, 
it  would  be  my  only  happiness  to  do  as  I  have  done.' "  * 

*  Memoir,  p.  334, 


TKIALS  OF  MINISTERS.  407 

Mr.  Campbell,  of  Kiltearn,  Ross-shire,  "  resigned  one  of  the 
best  livings  in  the  Church  at  the  call  of  duty,  thereby  incurring 
altogether  a  loss  of  some  thousands  of  pounds  for  conscience' 
sake."  He  had  large  experience  both  of  the  sacrifices  and 
hard  labour  of  Disruption  times.  Referring  to  1843,  when 
engaged  on  deputation-work,  he  says :  "  In  my  absence  my 
family  removed  from  the  manse  to  an  old  wreck '  of  a  house 
three  miles  from  the  church,  which  previously  had  been 
unoccupied  for  fifteen  years.  Notwithstanding  considerable 
repairs  made  on  the  house  at  my  own  expense,  it  was  most 
uncomfortable.  Two  of  our  domestics  almost  lost  their  lives 
in  consequence  of  the  desperate  state  of  the  house."  At  a 
subsequent  period,  amidst  the  infirmities  of  advancing  years,  he 
writes  :  "  My  days  are  now  drawing  to  a  close,  and  I  have 
great  cause  to  praise  the  Lord  for  His  goodness  to  me  and 
mine.  He  has  borne  with  my  manifold  infirmities  and  short- 
comings. .  .  .  Having  now  had  the  trial  of  twenty- two  years 
as  a  Disruption  minister,  I  bless  the  Lord  for  honouring  me  to 
be  one  of  that  band  of  witnesses  for  Christ."  * 

Such  testimonies,  however,  may  now  be  fittingly  closed 
in  the  words  of  Dr.  Brewster,  of  Craig,  who,  like  his  more 
celebrated  brother,  Sir  David  Brewster,  was  a  man  of  dis- 
tinguished talent  and  culture,  and  possessed  literary  powers  of 
the  highest  order.  When  he  entered  the  ministry,  evangelical 
religion  was  at  a  low  ebb  within  the  Establishment,  but  with 
all  his  gifts  and  talents  he  threw  himself  into  the  work  of  the 
Lord,  and  soon  won  for  himself  a  high  position  in  the  respect 
and  esteem  of  all  classes  of  the  community.  Modest  and  retiring 
almost  to  a  fault,  he  had  kept  himself  far  from  the  din  of 
controversy,  yet,  when  the  crisis  of  the  Ten  Years'  Conflict  came, 
the  principles  of  the  Free  Church  had  no  more  intrepid  defender 
and  none  more  resolute  to  make  all  the  sacrifices  that  were 
demanded. 

The  circumstances  in  which  he  gave  his  testimony  were 
remarkable.  About  a  year  before  his  death  he  was  attacked 
by  severe  illness,-)-  and  brought  to  the  brink  of  the  grave  ;  and 
while  lying  in  that  state  a  report  had  gone  abroad  that  he  and 

*  Parker  Mss.,  Presb.  of  DingwalL  f  Ibid.  Presb.  of  Brecliin. 


408  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 

others  of  his  brethren  had  repented  of  having  left  the  Established 
Church  at  the  Disruption.  The  crisis  of  the  illness  passed ; 
for  a  time,  in  the  good  providence  of  God,  he  was  restored  to 
some  measure  of  health,  and  one  of  the  first  uses  which  he 
made  of  returning  strength  was  to  write  and  publish,  for  the 
benefit  of  his  people,  an  account  of  his  experience  in  the  imme- 
diate view  of  death.  Among  other  topics,  he  speaks  of  the 
rumour  above  referred  to  :  "  We  know  what  has  been  said  as 
to  our  repentings,  but  I  am  bound  to  testify,  and  am  bold  to 
testify,  that  of  such  repentings  I  had  no  experience.  On  the 
contrary,  it  was  one  of  my  chief  rejoicings  that  we  had  taken 
such  a  step.  .  .  .  This  I  may  be  said  to  give  as  my  dying 
testimony — for  I  cannot  well  be  nearer  death  than  I  was  sup- 
posed to  be,  and  at  least  thought  myself  to  be.  In  that  solemn 
prospect,  it  was  one  of  my  greatest  consolations  that  I  was 
dying  as  a  poor  minister  of  the  Free  Church  of  Scotland."  * 

Thus,  in  the  quiet  retirement  of  their  country  parishes,  these 
honoured  fathers  of  the  Free  Church  prepared  to  pass  away.  No 
doubt  or  misgiving  troubled  them  as  to  the  path  of  duty  which 
they  had  followed  in  1843.  The  voice  of  the  Master  who  in  that 
day  of  trial  had  called  them  to  leave  all  and  follow  Him  was  still  in 
their  ears.  Not  in  the  heat  of  controversy  or  amidst  the  excite- 
ment of  public  meetings  was  their  testimony  given.  Mr.  Campbell, 
of  Kiltearn,  stands  as  one  "  ready  to  be  ofi'ered,"  knowing  that  the 
"time  of  his  departure  is  at  hand;"  but  ere  he  goes  he  gives 
thanks  to  God  for  the  honour  put  on  him  as  a  witness  for  Christ 
at  the  Disruption.  Dr.  Brewster  lies  on  what  is  felt  to  be  his 
dying  bed,  and  in  the  calm  retrospect,  it  fills  him  with  gratitude 
to  think  of  the  part  he  had  been  permitted  to  take  in  connection 
with  the  Free  Church — gratitude  none  the  less  deep  because  of 
those  privations  in  the  midst  of  which  he  must  end  his  days. 
The  short  year  of  restored  health  passed  away,  and  death  came. 
"  He  was  not,  for  God  took  him ; "  and  never  was  mourning 
more  sincere*  than  when  his  sorrowing  people  bore  his  remains 
to  the  lonely  burying-ground  of  St.  Skeoch, — 

"  And  left  him  there  in  his  house  of  clay 

Till  the  glorious  morn  of  the  Advent  Day." 


See  lines  in  Free  Church  Magazine,  iv.  144. 


part   Ift 

Difficulties  of  the  Position— Progress. 


REFUSAL  OF  SITES.  409 


XXXI.  Eefusal  of  Sites. 

In  following  the  history  of  Disruption  times,  we  come  now  to 
those  cases  of  site-refusing  which  were  brought  before  a  Com- 
mittee of  the  House  of  Commons.  A  gratifying  change  has 
since  taken  place  in  the  feelings  of  our  landed  proprietors ;  but, 
while  this  is  cordially  acknowledged,  we  must  not  forget  what  is 
due  to  the  memory  of  those  friends  and  supporters — many  of 
them  men  in  humble  life — who  stood  true  to  their  conscientious 
convictions,  and  loyal  to  their  Church  in  the  face  of  trials  which 
it  is  difficult  to  think  of  as  having  occurred  in  the  times  in 
which  we  live. 

It  was  no  wonder  that  the  Free  Church  should  have  met  with 
difficulties  at  the  outset.  Proprietors  who  had  keenly  resisted 
the  Disruption  movement,  could  not  willingly  submit  to  have  the 
churches  and  manses  of  the  outgoing  ministers  built  on  their 
lands.  But  in  many  of  these  cases  the  feeling  of  hostility  soon 
began  to  give  way.  The  landed  proprietors  of  Scotland,  as  a 
class,  have  the  most  kindly  regard  for  the  people  on  their  estates, 
and  though  they  might  be  angry  with  the  Free  Church — some 
of  them  were  very  angry — yet  when  they  saw  their  tenants  and 
country  neighbours,  industrious,  intelligent,  God-fearing  men, 
meeting  for  Divine  service  in  the  open  air,  exposed  to  all  the 
hardships  of  the  climate,  their  better  feelings  prevailed,  and  for 
the  most  part  they  made  concessions,  and  met  the  wishes  of 
the  people  in  a  frank  and  generous  spirit.* 

Unfortunately,  there  were  some  extensive  properties  on  which 
a  different  course  was  followed.     Sites  were  persistently  refused, 

*  Report  on  Sites,  L  p.  7,  q.  95. 


410  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

and  much  painful  feeling  was  called  forth.  In  the  Christian 
Church,  when  one  member  suffers  all  the  members  suffer  with 
it ;  and  for  many  years  at  the  approach  of  winter,  as  each  suc- 
cessive Sabbath  came  round,  there  was  not  a  stormy  wind  blew 
from  the  heavens,  nor  a  shower  of  snow  fell,  that  men  did  not 
think  of  their  brethren  compelled  to  worship  God  in  the  open 
air  among  the  cold  fir  woods  of  Strathspey,  or  shivering  on  the 
bleak  uplands  of  Wanlockhead.  The  pity  is  that  these  things 
cannot  be  told  without  referring  to  the  conduct  of  those  pro- 
prietors with  whom  the  trials  originated. 

During  the  first  winter  things  were  left  to  take  their  course, 
and  congregations  had  to  bear  as  best  they  could  the  perils  of 
exposure.  The  second  winter,  however,  was  more  severe,  and 
when  the  stormy  weather  had  fairly  set  in,  it  was  felt  that  some- 
thing must  be  done.  Deputations  were  sent  to  make  inquiries 
on  the  spot.  At  the  Assembly  of  1845,  the  subject  was  taken 
up  in  earnest,  a  Committee  was  named  to  take  charge  of  the 
subject,  and  by  a  most  fortunate  choice  Mr.  Graham  Spiers 
was  appointed  convener.  Connected  by  birth  and  marriage  with 
the  landed  gentry  of  Scotland,  Mr.  Spiers  was  known  to  the 
public  as  Sheriff  of  Mid-Lothian,  and  still  more  as  a  man 
of  ability,  whose  high-toned  Christian  character  and  calm 
courtesy  commanded  universal  respect  among  all  ranks  of 
society.  Amidst  the  delicate  and  difficult  negotiations  of  that 
trying  time,  the  Church  might  well  be  thankful  that  the  interests 
of  her  people  were  in  the  hands  of  one  on  whom  such  perfect 
reliance  could  be  placed. 

In  entering  on  their  work,  the  first  thing  done  by  the  Com- 
mittee was  to  proceed  to  London,  and  approach  the  leading 
site-refusers  in  private,  in  order  to  offer  explanations,  and,  if 
possible,  remove  misconceptions.  "  We  had  no  wish,"  said  Dr. 
Buchanan,  "  to  brand  any  man  in  the  face  of  the  public,  and  in 
the  face  of  Parliament."  This  well-meant  effort  almost  entirely 
failed,  and  a  public  movement  became  absolutely  necessary.  A 
discussion  took  place  both  in  the  House  of  Lords  and  Commons, 
and  the  hope  was  expressed  by  leading  men  of  all  parties  that 
without  any  specific  enactment  sites  would  be  granted  through 
the  pressure  of  public  opinion.     Little  effect,  however,  was  pro- 


REFUSAL  OF  SITES.  411 

duced  by  these  statements.  The  leading  opponents  resolutely 
held  their  ground,  and  at  last,  on  the  motion  of  Mr.  Bouverie, 
M.P.  for  the  Kilmarnock  Burghs,  the  House  of  Commons  named 
a  Committee  of  Enquiry  on  the  9th  of  March,  ]  847. 

It  is  well  known  that  there  is  no  more  searching  ordeal 
through  which  any  such  question  can  be  put  than  a  Committee 
of  the  House  of  Commons.  Certainly  on  this  occasion  the  re- 
cusant landlords  had  every  reason  to  be  satisfied  with  the  friends 
who  represented  them  in  the  course  of  the  inquiry.  Sir  James 
Graham  especially,  with  all  his  great  ability  and  practised  skill, 
proved  himself  an  eager  partisan,  sifting  every  part  of  the  evid- 
ence with  a  view  to  discredit  the  Free  Church  and  her  claims. 
One  great  benefit,  however,  has  resulted  from  this.  The  evid- 
ence presented  to  the  Committee,  which  such  an  advocate  was 
unable  to  shake,  may  now  be  quoted  and  relied  on  with  the 
most  implicit  confidence,  and  we  shall  accordingly  freely  avail 
ourselves  of  it  in  the  following  pages. 

Of  the  cases  which  attracted  public  notice,  one  of  the  first 
was  that  of  Ballater,  on  Deeside,  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Bal- 
moral, the  favourite  residence  of  the  Queen,  and  at  that  time  of 
Prince  Albert,  The  proprietor,  Mr.  Farquharson  of  Monaltrie, 
had  recently  died,  and  a  site  had  been  refused  by  his  trustees, 
one  of  whom  happened  to  be  a  personal  friend  of  Mr.  Spiers. 
Availing  himself  of  this  circumstance,  he  wrote  on  behalf  of 
the  people,  but  was  told  in  reply  that  however  painful  it  was  to 
refuse  any  request  of  his,  yet  the  trustees  knew  the  sentiments 
of  "  the  late  Monaltrie,"  and  it  was  their  imperative  duty  to  do 
what  they  were  sure  he  would  have  done — the  site  must  be 
refused.* 

This,  however,  was  only  the  first  step.  In  the  village  of 
Ballater  there  is  a  public  hall,  which  the  owners  were  accus- 
tomed to  let  on  hire  for  meetings  of  many  different  kinds,  and 
the  congregation  had  rented  it  on  the  usual  terms.  The  trus- 
tees, however,  were  what  is  called  the  Feudal  Superiors  of  the 
place.  They  claimed  the  right  to  prohibit  the  use  of  the  hall, 
went  to  law  before  the  Sheriff  of  Aberdeen,  and  got  a  decision 
in  their  favour,  closing  the  door  against  the  members  of  the 
*  Report  on  Sites,  i.  p.  100. 


412  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

Free  Church,  who  were  at  the  same  time  saddled  with  the 
expense  of  the  lawsuit. 

Driven  thus  from  the  village,  where  every  available  build- 
ing was  under  the  power  of  the  trustees,  they  met  during 
the  first  winter  on  an  exposed  muir  in  the  open  air.  After- 
wards, they  found  partial  shelter  in  a  rude  sheep-cote  which 
one  of  the  farmers  allowed  them  to  occupy.  It  was  nine 
feet  in  breadth,  the  walls  five  feet  high,  without  windows. 
The  roof,  of  course,  was  low ;  the  place  dark  and  com- 
fortless ;  and  the  people  proposed  to  heighten  the  walls  and 
put  on  a  new  roof,  thinking,  in  their  simplicity,  that  as  this 
would  improve  the  property  at  their  own  expense,  no  objection 
would  be  ofi'ered.  But  the  farm  was  on  the  Monaltrie  estate, 
and  the  trustees  at  once  interposed  to  forbid  the  improvement. 
The  congregation  had  no  desire  for  a  second  experience  of  the 
Sherifi"  Court,  and  had  to  submit. 

But  necessity  is  the  mother  of  invention.  If  they  could  not 
heighten  the  roof,  might  they  not  get  room  by  lowering  the 
floor?  Fortunately  at  this  point  the  trustees  drew  a  line  in 
their  favour.  Men  were  set  to  work,  and  by  burrowing  into 
the  ground  greater  space  was  got  overhead  between  the  audience 
and  the  rafters.  There  were,  however,  certain  drawbacks.  In 
rainy  weather,  the  water  which  ran  from  the  hillside  could 
with  difficulty  be  kept  out,  while  the  leakage  from  the  roof 
added  to  the  discomfort.  After  all,  as  Dr.  Guthrie  remarked. 
Divine  service  had  to  be  carried  on  while  the  congregation  were 
"  sitting  in  a  hole."  * 

Ballater,  it  should  be  remembered,  stands  amidst  the  beautiful 
scenery  of  Deeside,  and  is  a  favourite  health-resort  in  the  North 
of  Scotland.  Among  the  visitors  who  came  from  many  difierent 
parts  of  the  country,  it  was  the  subject  of  much  remark  to  see 
the  circumstances  in  which  a  Christian  Congregation  were  com- 
pelled to  worship  God,  not  only  in  full  view  of  the  public,  but 
in  the  immediate  neighbourhood  of  the  Queen  and  her  Court. 

Further  to  the  north,  similar  trials  were  met  with  on  a  larger 
scale  in  Strathspey,  where  the  property  of  the  Earl  of  Seafield 

*  Report  oa  Sites,  i.  p.  71,  qq.  1081-1088.  See  also  Illustrations  of 
Toleration.     Edinburjjh,  1846?,  p.  4. 


i 


^ilillill!. 

iiiin 


iii;ii;iii' 


REFUSAL  OF  SITES.  413 

is  described  as  extending  twenty-eight  miles  in  length  by  fifteen 
.  in  mean  breadth.*  Over  this  wide  district  the  adherents  of  the 
Free  Church  were  dependent  on  the  will  of  a  single  proprietor, 
but  there  was  every  reason  to  anticipate  the  kindest  treatment 
at  his  hands.  On  his  other  estates  at  Cullen  and  Glenurquhart 
sites  had  been  freely  granted,  while  in  Strathspey  itself — as  Mr. 
Dickson,  banker,  a  member  of  the  Free  Church  testifies — Lord 
Seafield  was  very  much  "  respected  and  beloved ;  "  "  no  landlord 
could  be  more  so."  -j-  Unfortunately,  there  were  evil  advisers 
at  hand.  A  hostile  factor  got  up  a  petition — as  factors  well 
know  how — urging  that  sites  should  be  refused.  The  signatures 
were  not  numerous — twelve  in  all,  one  of  the  witnesses  said  ; 
but  it  is  to  be  regretted  that  we  find  among  them  the  names  of 
the  Established  Church  ministers  in  the  district,  J  one  of  whom 
was  bold  enough  to  tell  the  Committee  of  the  House  of  Com- 
mons that  he  did  not  think  he  would  object  to  Roman  Catholics 
obtaining  sites, §  but  would  resist  the  Free  Church  to  the  utter- 
most. To  such  counsellors  Lord  Seafield  deferred,  and  all  along 
Strathspey  much  hardship  had  to  be  endured. 

The  parish  of  Duthil  may  be  taken  as  an  example.  The 
people  in  large  numbers  joined  the  Free  Church,  and  having  to 
worship  in  the  open-air,  chose  as  their  place  of  meeting  a  fir 
wood  near  Carrbridge  || — a  portion  of  those  grand  old  pine 
forests  for  which  Strathspey  has  so  long  been  famous.  A  rude 
pulpit  was  set  up,  round  which  in  all  weathers  the  people 
gathered,  often  in  circumstances  painful  to  witness.  Early  in 
the  winter  of  1844,  the  Presbytery  of  the  bounds  took  an  oppor- 
tunity, during  a  severe  snowstorm,  to  appeal  to  Lord  Seafield. 
"  We  cannot  believe  that  it  is  your  Lordship's  wish  to  oblige 
them  to  continue  meeting  in  the  open  air  at  the  risk  of  health 
and  even  of  life,  in  such  weather  as  the  present."  <f[  It  should 
be  remembered  that  the  cold  of  that  northern  district  is  often 
intense,  and  that  the  fir  wood  of  Carrbridge  lies  some  700  feet 
above  the  sea  level.  The  adverse  influence,  however,  was  too 
strong,  and  the  appeal  was  in  vain. 

*  Report  on  Sites,  ii.  p.  22,  q.  1841.     t  Ibid.  ii.  p.  34,  q.  2103. 

X  Ihid.  ii.  p.  24,  q.  1879.  §  Ibid.  ii.  p.  57,  q.  2685,  2701. 

II  Ibid.  ii.  p.  24,  q.  1886.  1  Ibid.  ii.  p.  142. 


414  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

The  pastoral  care  of  all  these  congregations  in  Upper  Strath- 
spey had  devolved  on  the  only  outgoing  minister,  Mr.  Shepherd, 


DUTHIL. 

of  Kingussie.     Often  in  going  to  Duthil  the  weather  he  met 
with  was  severe.     On  22nd  November,  1846,t  there  was  inces- 

*  The  above  woodcut  is  taken  from  "  Illustrations  of  the  Principles  of 
Toleration  in  Scotland.  Edinburgh  :  Kennedy  "  (1846  0-  The  views  were 
prepared  at  the  time  when  the  subject  began  to  be  spoken  of  in  Parlia- 
ment, and  care  was  taken  to  secure  accuracy.  At  page  440  another  of 
the  views  is  given — that  of  Wanlockhead. 

t  Report  on  Sites,  ii.  p.  IG,  q.  1687  seq. 


KEFUSAL  OF  SITES.  415 

sant  rain  during  the  whole  service.  During  sermon  in  January, 
1847,  it  rained  "  without  interruption,  and  there  was  high  wind," 
Another  visit  was  yet  more  remarkable.  The  service  had  been 
announced,  but  a  snowstorm  had  begun  on  the  previous  Satur- 
day, and  a  message  had  been  sent  from  the  Duthil  elders 
requesting  him  not  to  come,  "  it  was  impossible  they  could 
stand  it  out."  Mr,  Shepherd  had  twenty  miles  to  drive,  but 
owing  to  the  scanty  supply  of  preachers  the  arrangements  once 
made  had  to  be  carried  out,  and  he  went  to  do  his  duty.  "  It 
was  very  stormy,"  he  says,  "  and  I  had  great  difficulty  in  getting 
from  my  house  to  the  place."  On  arriving,  about  200  people 
were  found  assembled — one-third  of  the  usual  number — and  the 
first  thing  was  to  have  the  snow  cleared  away  from  the  pulpit, 
the  precentor's  desk,  and  the  seats  on  which  they  required  to 
sit.  This  was  trying  work — not  easy  for  the  people  who  had  to 
attend  on  the  services,  and  specially  difficult  for  the  officiating 
minister,  who  had  to  drive  forty  miles  going  and  returning 
through  the  falling  snow. 

While  these  things  were  going  on  in  Strathspey,  there  were 
similar  times  of  trial  in  Skye  and  Uist  among  the  tenantry  of 
Lord  Macdonald,  To  all  their  petitions  his  invariable  reply 
was,  "  I  must  positively  decline  to  give  a  site ; "  and  thus,  over 
the  whole  of  his  extensive  estates  in  Portree,  Kilmuir,  Sleat, 
Stenscholl,  Uig,  and  Trumisgarry,  the  people  had  to  submit  to 
severe  hardships.  The  one  outgoing  minister  who  remained  in 
Skye  to  uphold  single-handed  the  cause  of  the  Free  Church  was 
the  Rev.  Roderick  Macleod,  of  Snizort,  a  man  of  rare  force  of 
character,  who  has  been  already  referred  to  in  these  pages.  It 
would  take  long  to  tell  the  sacrifices  and  labours  which  he 
went  through.  As  at  Duthil,  the  weather  in  the  open  air 
was  often  trying.  At  Kilmuir,  he  speaks  of  conducting  the 
whole  service  under  very  heavy  rain ;  and  at  Uig,  during  ser- 
mon on  one  occasion,  it  began  to  snow,  the  fall  being  so  heavy 
that  at  the  close  he  says  :  "  I  could  hardly  distinguish "  the 
congregation  from  the  ground  on  which  they  sat,  "  except  by 
their  faces."  *    It  would  be  difficult  anywhere  else  in  all  Christen- 

*  Report  on  Sites,  iii.  p.  33,  q.  4647. 


416  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

dom  to  find  ministers  willing  to  preach,  and  people  willing^  to 
listen,  during  such  a  service. 

At  the  hamlet  of  Paible,*  in  North  Uist,  the  circumstances 
are  given  in  greater  detail.  The  people  had  set  about  erecting 
a  rude  shelter  of  turf  and  stone,  on  what  was  called  a  common, 
where  the  ground  was  of  little  value.  The  factor,  after  warning 
them  in  vain,  came  personally  on  the  scene,  got  together  the 
carts  belonging  to  members  of  the  Established  Church,  and 
removed  the  materials  to  a  distance.  When  the  next  term  came, 
he  summoned  out  of  their  lands  all  the  crofters  who  had  taken 
part  in  the  erection,  actually  ejected  some  of  the  more  promi- 
nent, and  imposed  fines  of  from  £1  to  £2  on  those  who  were 
suffered  to  remain.-f- 

The  poor  Islemen,  however,  did  not  flinch.  In  March,  1847, 
when  Dr.  Macintosh  Mackay  came  to  preach  at  Paible,  he  had 
— owing  to  the  state  of  the  weather — to  stand  within  the  door 
of  a  cart-shed  in  order  to  get  some  protection.  The  congregation 
"  stood  all  round  on  a  level  piece  of  ground  sheltered  by  the  walls 
of  the  houses  on  one  side.  It  was  a  stormy  day,  and  there  were 
heavy  showers  of  sleet  and  rain."  Afterwards  they  met  under 
the  shelter  of  a  peculiar  jutting  rock  near  the  hamlet.  "  I  could 
compare  it  to  nothing  but  what  is  sometimes  seen  on  the 
quarter-deck  of  a  vessel — an  oval  skylight."  In  all  states  of  the 
weather  it  was  possible  to  get  some  shelter  by  going  round  to 
the  point  opposite  to  that  from  which  the  wind  blew.  I 

On  these  estates,  however,  there  were  worse  things  than  the 
storms  of  winter.  The  crofters  and  small  farmers,  having  no 
leases,  were  at  the  mercy  of  the  landlord,  and,  as  the  factor 
admitted,  a  good  many  of  them  were  charged  to  leave  because 
they  supported  the  Free  Church.  "  He  (the  landlord)  gave  me  a 
list,  and  said,  '  Here  is  a  list  of  fellows  that  must  have  notice  to 
quit."'§  How  many  were  actually  expelled  does  not  appear, 
but  one  or  two  cases  may  be  given  to  show  how  completely  his 
Lordship  was  in  earnest. 

Mr.  Donald  Matheson  was  a  member  of  the  Free  Church  at 

*  Report  on  Sites,  ii.  p.  Ill,  q.  3674  seq.s  ill.  p.  9,  q.  4442  seq. 

t  Ibid.  ui.  pp.  23,  24,  qq.  4440-4459.  %  Ibid.  ii.  p.  Ill,  q.  3684. 

§  Ibid.  iii.  p.  61,  q.  5285.  This  was  afterwards  attempted  to  be  explained  away. 


EEFUSAL  OF  SITES,  417 

Portree,  became  a  collector  for  the  Sustentation  Fund,  and  refer- 
ring to  the  year  1846,  states:*  "I  was  warned  out  of  the  lands 
which  my  forefathers  had  held  from  immemorial  ages."  On  ap- 
pealing to  the  factor,  Mr.  Mackinnon,  of  Corry,  he  was  told  it  had 
been  resolved  to  remove  him  from  the  property.  Before  sub- 
mitting, however,  he  determined  to  try  the  effect  of  a  personal 
interview,  and  with  some  difficulty  obtained  from  thef  factor  Lord 
Macdonald's  London  address.  He  at  once  started  for  Edinburgh, 
took  the  London  steamboat,  and,  with  a  strange  mixture  of  sim- 
plicity and  shrewdness,  recounts  his  adventures.  On  landing,  the 
first  thing  he  did  was  to  get  into  a  cab,  and  direct  the  man  to 
go  straight  to  the  address  he  had  received.  For  some  reason,  it 
took  them  three  hours  driving  through  the  streets  before  the 
house  could  be  found,  and  then  it  was  only  to  ascertain  that  his 
Lordship  had  gone  on  a  visit  to  Yorkshire.  To  Yorkshire  accord- 
ingly he  followed, and  among  other  incidents  he  describes  the  great 
satisfaction  he  had  at  an  inn  where  he  stayed,  in  proving  to  his 
host — so  he  thought — the  superiority  of  Highland  politeness  over 
that  of  Englishmen.  On  arriving  in  Yorkshire,  Mr.  Matheson 
went  at  once  to  find  Lord  Macdonald,  but  he  was  not  to  be 
seen,  having  gone  out  shooting  for  the  day.  Next  morning,  no 
time  was  lost  in  making  an  early  call,  but  he  was  again  disap- 
pointed. Lord  Macdonald  had  left  for  London  that  morning 
at  seven  o'clock.  Nothing  daunted,  he  started  again  in  pursuit, 
took  the  coach  for  London,  and  next  day  succeeded  in  obtaining 
an  interview.  It  proved,  however,  the  reverse  of  satisfactory. 
"  He  wanted  to  know  my  name  before  my  admission  to  his  pre- 
sence. On  being  introduced,  he  asked,  '  What  is  it  you  want  ? ' 
*I  wish  that  your  Lordship  would  be  pleased  to  look  at  my  humble 
petition.'  He  turned  round,  and  said,  in  a  voice  so  loud  as  to 
make  the  whole  fabric  re-echo,  'No,no  ;  I  am  glad  Corry  has  dealt 
with  you  in  the  way  he  has  done — away,  away ! ' — calling  on  his 
valet  to  come  and  wait  on  me.  I  indeed  thought  that  if  I  was 
to  say  a  single  word  he  would  use  me  nothing  better  than  Baalam 
would  his  ass."  On  retiring,  Mr.  Matheson  at  once  forwarded 
his  petition  to  Lord  Macdonald  by  post,  started  for  Liverpool, 
and  arrived  at  home  two  days  before  the  term  at  which  he  had 
to  remove. 

*  Personal  Narrative,  Parker  JNlss. 

2  E 


418  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

The  breaking-lip  of  his  home  was  painful.  "  My  dear  spouse 
was  confined  on  her  deathbed."  Through  fear  of  the  factor,  she 
had  to  be  removed  to  "  very  poor  and  insufficient  accommoda- 
tion, and  there  she  ended  her  earthly  career,"  and  with  a  sore 
heart  he  laid' her  in  the  grave. 

Driven  from  his  farm,  the  energy  of  the  man  did  not  forsake 
him.  He  betook  himself  to  business  as  a  shipper  and  provision 
merchant,  and  seems  to  have  prospered.  It  is  strange  to  ob- 
serve how  it  brought  him  again  in  contact  with  those  who  had 
tried  to  get  rid  of  him. 

A  year  and  nine  months  after  that  visit  to  London,  Lord 
Macdonald  and  his  factor  "were  standing  at  the  quay  at  my 
potato  vessel.  I  went  out,  and  Corry  introduced  me  politely  to 
his  Lordship,  and  said,  '  Lord  Macdonald  wants  some  potatoes 
for  seed,  and  I  want  some  also  ;  but  unfortunately  we  have  no 
money,  and  maybe  your  manner  of  dealing  would  not  allow  of 
giving  us  credit  for  three  months.'  I  said,  'You  are  quite  welcome 
to  as  many  as  you  want.'  Next  season  the  Inspector  of  Poor 
called  on  Corry,  and  told  him  that  the  merchant  who  used  to 
supply  him  with  meal  for  the  poor  "  (the  jjarish  paupers)  "  would 
give  him  no  more,  because  he  was  not  yet  paid  for  what  they  got. 
Corry  bid  him  come  to  me,  and  try  if  I  would  supply  him  for  a 
month.  I  told  him  I  would  supply  him  for  a  twelvemonth 
without  money,  but  that  the  amount  would  have  to  be  paid  on 
that  day,  or  they  would  be  put  to  expense."  When  the  time  for 
payment  came,  no  money  was  forthcoming.  Legal  steps  were 
taken.  Lord  Macdonald  and  his  factor  begged  for  indulgence, 
but  Mr.  Matheson  was  firm.  The  whole  amount,  with  interest 
and  legal  expenses,  was  paid,  and  the  intercourse  of  the  noble- 
man with  his  former  tenant  was  at  an  end. 

The  case  of  one  of  the  ministers — the  Rev.  Norman  M'Leod 
— is  not  less  remarkable.*  He  had  been  settled  at  Trumis- 
garry,  in  North  Uist,  and  joined  the  Free  Church  in  1843, 
with  nearly  the  whole  Protestant  population  of  the  district. 
His  living  was  one  of  the  so-called  Parliamentary  Churches, 
and  there  being  no  manse,  he  rented  from  Lord  Macdonald 
a  small  farm  on  which,  at  his  own  expense,  he  had  built  a 
*  Report  on  Sites,  iii.  pp.  18-22,  qq.  4355-4417. 


REFUSAL  OF  SITES.  419 

cottage  "with  six  fireplaces."  After  the  Disruption,  at  the 
first  term  he  received  notice  to  quit.  "I  trust,"  he  wrote 
in  reply,  "  your  Lordship  does  not  really  intend  to  drive  me, 
with  my  young  and  helpless  family,  out  of  my  present  dwelling- 
house.  I  am  willing  to  give  any  rent  another  will  oflfer,  and 
should  your  Lordship  not  choose  to  give  the  farm  on  any  terms, 
I  would  be  satisfied  with  the  house,  and  grass  for  two  cows  and 
a  horse."  He  mentions  also  that  he  had  been  at  considerable 
expense  in  improving  the  farm,  from  which  he  had  as  yet 
received  little  or  no  return.  The  answer  to  this  request  was 
a  peremptory  refusal  sent  through  the  factor.  "  I  have  also  to 
intimate  to  you  that  Lieutenant  John  Macdonald  is  to  get  the 
lands  possessed  by  you,  and  you  should  make  the  best  bargain 
you  can  with  him  about  the  house.  It  will  be  against  you  his 
not  getting  a  lease  of  the  lands,  for  as  yet  Lord  Macdonald  has 
only  agreed  to  let  him  have  the  place  from  year  to  year."  The 
new  tenant  holding  the  place  on  a  tenure  so  precarious  could 
not  of  course  give  value  for  the  premises.  The  sum  of  £40 
was  all  that  Mr.  M'Leod  could  obtain  for  unexhausted  improve- 
ments, and  for  the  house  he  had  built,  and  he  was  left  to  extract 
what  comfort  he  could  from  the  closing  sentence  of  the  factor's 
letter.  "  I  can  only  again  express  my  regret  at  the  disagreeable 
situation  you  are  placed  in,  but  hope  that  you  may  get  well  over 
it,  and  with  kind  compliments  to  Mrs.  M'Leod, — I  am,  &c," 

It  is  incredible  that  the  nobleman  and  factor  intended  to  take 
an  undue  advantage.  Their  object  must  simply  have  been  to 
drive  Mr.  Macleod  from  the  Island,  in  the  hope  that  the  people 
would  return  to  the  Established  Church. 

But  the  ministers  of  the  Free  Church  were  not  easily  driven. 
The  nearest  house  Mr.  M'Leod  could  get  was  on  the  farm  of 
Callan,  about  twenty  miles  distant  from  the  scene  of  his  labours. 
It  was  in  a  bad  state  of  repair,  and  the  roads  were  such  that  he 
states  :  "  I  cannot  take  a  horse  within  three  miles  of  it."  The 
distances  were  great,  and  the  weather  often  so  inclement  that, 
"  with  the  exception  of  one  or  two  occasions,  he  did  not  think  that 
he  ever  reached  his  congregation  and  got  back  to  his  house 
without  being  drenched  through,  and  this  even  though  covered 
with  six  or  seven   ply   of  as  good  cloth   as   the   Highlands 


420  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

could  produce."  *  In  the  face  of  all  difficulties,  however,  Mr. 
Macleod  stood  to  his  post.  The  time  came  when  a  comfortable 
church  and  manse  were  provided ;  and  there  down  to  the  pre- 
sent day,  1881,  he  reraains,-|-  after  a  long  ministry,  the  pastor  of 
an  attached  flock,  while  of  those  who  oppressed  him,  it  must  be 
said  that  their  place  knows  them  no  more. 

The  island  of  Eig,  one  of  the  smaller  Hebrides,  was  the 
scene  of  another  of  these  struggles.;]:  There  was  a  Protestant 
population  of  about  200  persons,  who  all  joined  the  Free  Church 
with  three  exceptions — the  servant  in  the  Established  Church 
Manse,  the  ground-officer  on  the  estate,  and  his  father,  a  pauper. 
The  whole  island  belonged  to  Professor  Macpherson,  of  Aberdeen, 
who  refused  a  site.  Already  in  these  pages  §  we  have  seen,  from 
the  vivid  description  of  Hugh  Miller,  how  it  fared  with  the 
people  for  church  accommodation ;  but  for  the  outgoing  minister 
(Mr.  Swanson)  and  his  family,  no  house-room  could  be  got. 
If  he  had  chosen  to  accept  a  call  he  might  soon  have  found  a 
more  advantageous  position  elsewhere,  but  he  had  seen  among 
his  people  the  promise  of  spiritual  blessing,  and  when  a  call 
came  unsought,  he  told  the  Assembly  that  if  he  might  ask  a 
favour  it  was  that  they  would  leave  him  where  he  was. 

Denied  accommodation  on  the  island,  the  nearest  residence 
he  could  obtain  was  at  Ornsay,  in  Skye,  across  many  miles  of 
stormy  sea.  There  his  family  were  settled,  while  his  own  home 
was  really  on  the  deep.  To  visit  and  preach  to  his  people,  he 
procured  a  small  vessel,  the  Betsy,  on  board  which  so  much  of 
his  time  was  spent  that  she  came  to  be  spoken  of  as  the  floating 
manse.  In  the  autumn  of  1843,  when  the  Assembly  met  at 
Glasgow,  it  was  aimounced  that  the  minister  of  Eig  was  coming 
up,  bringing  his  manse  with  him.  The  idea  of  seeing  her  on  her 
way  as  she  came  up  the  Clyde  running  before  the  wind,  with 
the  minister  "at  home"  on  board,  was  sufficiently  romantic; 
but  when  men  went  to  "  call  at  the  manse,"  she  was  found  to  be 

*  Blue  Book,  1848,  p.  295. 

t  Since  this  was  written,  iind  while  it  is  passing  through  the  press,  in- 
telligence comes  of  his  death  "  m  a  good  old  age."  He  was  in  his  80th 
year. 

I  Report  on  Sites,  iii.  pp.  12-18,  qq.  4294-4354.         §  Page  243. 


REFUSAL  OF  SITES.  421 

a  poor  vessel  of  twelve  tons  burden,  some  thirty  feet  in  length, 
by  eleven  in  breadth,  utterly  unfit  to  contend  with  the  storms 
of  the  Atlantic. 

Connected  with  the  Betsy  there  is  a  child's  story  told  by  Mr.  W. 
Dickson  in  the  Children's  Record  (1844),  which  brings  back  some 
of  the  trials  of  that  time.  At  the  removal  from  the  Manse  of  Eig, 
while  the  furniture  was  being  packed,  Mr.  Swanson  set  sail  for 
Ornsay,  taking  with  him  his  son,  a  child  five  years  of  age.  It 
was  a  grand  thing  at  first  for  "  Billy  "  to  go  with  his  father  in 
the  ship,  but  by-and-by  he  could  not  understand  his  new  home. 
His  mother  was  amissing  ;  his  father  had  to  make  the  porridge  ; 
they  had  nobody  but  John  Stewart,  the  sailor,  for  a  servant- 
girl.  He  tried  hard  to  be  manly,  but  the  wind  began  to  blow. 
Billy  got  sick,  and  lay  down  on  the  cabin  floor,  crying  to  be 
taken  home.  "  My  boy,"  his  father  said,  "  You  have  no  home 
now."  "  I  never  so  felt  the  desolateness  of  my  condition,"  Mr. 
Swanson  declared,  "  as  when  the  cry  of  my  boy,  '  Home,  home,' 
was  ringing  in  my  ears."     Billy  sobbed  himself  asleep. 

It  is  needless  to  recount  the  various  eff'orts  made  to  obtain  a 
site.  Professor  Macpherson  said  he  was  afraid  of  perpetuating 
religious  dissension  on  the  island — an  odd  objection  in  a  case 
where  the  Protestants  were  virtually  unanimous  —  the  only 
jarring  element  being  that  which  came  from  himself  at 
Aberdeen. 

After  the  hardships  of  the  first  winter  a  petition,  signed  by 
the  whole  Protestant  population,  was  sent  applying  a  second 
time  for  a  site.  Mr.  Swanson  was  on  the  best  terms  with  the 
few  adherents  of  the  Establishment,  and  with  one  exception 
they  forwarded  a  separate  application  to  the  effect  that  Mr. 
Swanson's  health  was  failing,  and  that  they  could  not  bear  to 
see  the  hardships  to  which  he  was  subjected.  The  Professor 
replied  that  he  was  sorry  to  hear  of  it,  but  he  must  do  his 
duty  even  though  it  was  painful.  He  was  a  professor  in  Old 
Aberdeen  ;  he  must  uphold  the  Established  Church ;  and  no 
site  could  be  granted.* 

*  When  attention  was  called  to  the  matter,  five  sites  were  offered. 
Mr.  Swanson  gives  the  details  of  the  one  which  was  "  by  far  the  best." 
The  offer  could  hardly  have  been  serious. — Report,  iii.  p.  17,  q.  4326. 


422  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 

Meanwhile  Mr.  Swanson's  life  was  in  danger.  The  cabin  of 
his  vessel  was  a  small  place — twelve  feet  by  six.  When  closed 
on  account  of  the  weather,  it  soon  got  overheated,  and  to  pass 
out  in  cold  and  storm,  as  he  often  had  to  do,  to  take  his  place  on 
deck,  was  a  trial  which  few  constitutions  with  the  training  of  a 
clergyman  could  be  expected  to  stand.  And  there  were  other 
dangers.  Hugh  Miller  was  his  companion  for  a  time,  and  in 
his  well-known  work,  " The  Cruise  of  the  Betsy"  has  with  his 
own  graphic  power  shown  the  kind  of  perils  which  were  met 
with  even  during  the  best  months  of  summer.  Dr.  Mackintosh 
Mackay,  then  of  Dunoon,  who  knew  the  circumstances  well, 
remarks  that,  "  when  one  thinks  of  the  vessel  which  Mr.  Swan- 
son  had  to  make  his  home — an  unseaworthy,  sorry  craft,  which 
seamen  would  style  a  mere  rattle-tiap,  and  of  the  dangers  of 
that  coast  exposed  to  tlie  storms  of  the  Atlantic — we  may  thank 
God  that  the  history  of  the  Free  Church  escaped  the  recording 
of  a  tragical  story." 

Another  of  these  cases  occurred  in  the  Island  of  Coll,  which 
has  belonged  from  time  immemorial  to  the  Clan  Maclean.  One 
of  the  chieftains  in  former  days  is  said  to  have  become  a  Protes- 
tant, at  a  time  when  the  people  still  adhered  to  the  Koman 
Catholic  Church.  He  saw  no  reason  why  the  clan  should  not 
believe  what  the  chief  believed,  and  he  took  energetic  measures 
to  enforce  his  views,  driving  them  before  him  to  the  Protestant 
Church.  Protestantism  thus  came  to  be  known  in  the  island  as 
the  "  religion  of  the  yellow  cane,"  from  the  colour  of  the  stick 
which  the  chief  had  used  to  second  his  arguments  while  actively 
dealing  with  the  people.* 

In  1843  the  island  belonged  to  one  of  his  descendants, 
who  resided  on  another  property  in  Mull,  where  he  took  an 
attitude  of  keen  hostility  to  the  Pree  Church. 

It  was  reserved,  however,  for  the  men  of  Coll  to  make  the 
landlord  feel  that  times  had  changed.  Though  nearly  the 
whole  population  of  the  island  had  joined  the  Free  Church,  the 
chief  believed  that  if  proper  arguments  were  addressed  to  them, 
and  if  his  personal  influence  were  brought  to  bear,  they  would 
return  to  the  Establishment.  He  engaged  a  minister  in  whom 
*  Report  oil  Site:<,  ii.  \^.  108,  q.  3G15. 


REFUSAL  OF  SITES.  423 

he  had  confidence  to  accompany  him  to  Coll ;  sent  word  fixing 
a  particular  Sabbath,  and  invited  his  clansmen  and  depend- 
ents— the  wliole  population  of  the  island — to  come  and  meet 
him. 

Duly  at  the  appointed  time  the  chief  was  on  the  spot  with 
his  champion.  The  people  whom  he  had  called  were  seen 
gathering  along  the  roads,  but  instead  of  meeting  him  at  the 
Established  Church,  they  kept  streaming  past,  on  their  way  to 
the  Free  Church  service  in  the  open  air.  It  was  in  vain  that 
the  chief  addressed  them,  placing  himself  on  the  road  along 
which  they  had  to  go,  reasoning  and  remonstrating  with  groups 
and  with  individuals,  urging  them  to  come  and  at  least  give  his 
friend  a  hearing.*  Their  reply  was  a  resjjectful  but  firm  refusal. 
"  Ask  us  anything  but  this,"  they  said,  "  and  we  are  ready  to 
comply;  we  will  serve  you — we  will  enlist  as  soldiers  or  join 
the  navy  if  you  wish — we  will  follow  you  as  our  fathers  fol- 
lowed your  fathers  in  the  days  of  old — we  will  stand  by  you  to 
the  last, — but  our  consciences  are  our  own,  and  our  religious 
convictions  we  cannot  surrender."  To  that  resolution  they 
stood  firm.  Inside  the  threshold  of  the  Established  Church 
they  could  not  be  got ;  and  yet  Dr.  Mackay,  who  narrates  the 
facts,  declares  that  "  there  is  a  very  strong  feeling  of  attachment 
to  Mr.  Maclean  and  his  family."  They  are  "  universally  beloved 
by  the  people."  j- 

On  the  Island  of  Mull  there  is  an  extensive  parish — Torosay 
— where  the  incidents  of  1843  deserve  to  be  recorded.  The 
people  in  considerable  numbers  joined  the  Eree  Church,  and 
applied  to  Mr.  Campbell  of  Possil,  the  only  proprietor  on  whose 
lands  a  suitable  site  could  be  got.  But,  unfortunately,  his  feel- 
ings against  the  Eree  Church  were  particularly  keen.  The  cir- 
cumstances and  incidents,  however,  will  be  best  understood 
from  the  following  narrative  by  the  Eev.  J.  A.  Eletcher  of 
Bothwell  :— 

"The  greater  number  of  the  parishioners  who  adhered  to  the 
Free  Church  lived  at  the  small  village  of  Lochdonhead,  about 
2^  miles  from  the  parish  church,  and  here,  consequently,  the  cou- 

*  Report  on  Sites,  ii.  p.  107. 
t  Ibid.  ii.  p.  107. 


424  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 

gregation  usually  met  for  public  worship.  But  a  place  of  worship, 
in  the  ordinary  sense  of  the  term,  they  had  not,  for  many  years 
subsequent  to  the  Disruption.  The  proprietor  of  that  part  of 
the  parish,  in  other  respects  a  most  generous  landlord,  and  an 
elder  in  the  Established  Church,  persistently  refused  all  appeals 
for  a  site,  though  approached  respectfully  by  petition  from  the 
people,  and  by  letter  from  Sheriff  Graham  Speirs,  the  Convener 
of  the  Church's  Committee  on  Sites.  The  people,  thus  driven 
to  shift  as  best  they  could,  met  ordinarily  for  worship  in  a 
gravel-pit,  which  during  spring  tides  was  under  high-water 
mark.  In  this  gravel-pit  a  canvas  tent  was  erected,  which  was 
seldom  sufficient  to  accommodate  all  the  worshippers  who  as- 
sembled. Indeed,  I  remember  to  have  seen,  on  more  than  one 
occasion,  the  preacher,  some  neighbouring  minister — for  not  till 
18G9  did  they  have  a  settled  minister  in  the  congregation — take 
up  his  position  at  the  door  of  the  crowded  tent,  facing  outwards, 
so  that  the  rest  of  the  audience,  some  seated  on  stones,  some 
reclining  on  the  heather  and  bracken  which  grew  in  the  vicinity 
of  the  gravel-pit,  might  hear  him  to  advantage.  When  the 
weather  was  fine,  the  congregation  could  meet  even  in  a  gravel- 
pit  in  some  degree  of  comfort.  But  on  the  west  coast,  so  pro- 
verbial for  wind  and  rain,  long  spells  of  fine  weather  are,  of 
course,  rare,  so  that  the  people  had  often  to  assemble  in  circum- 
stances most  uncomfortable,  and  in  tlie  highest  degree  unfavour- 
able for  the  becoming  worship  of  God.  I  remember  having  to  sit 
outside  the  tent  along  with  many  others,  some  of  them  frail, 
delicate  women,  my  mother  being  among  the  number,  during 
pelting  showers  of  hail.  I  shall  never  forget  the  touching  sight 
of  an  old  man — a  Waterloo  veteran— who  sat  not  far  from  me 
on  one  occasion.  He  was  sitting  on  a  large  rough  stone,  clad 
in  tartan,  his  grey  locks  blown  about  his  face,  bonnet  in  hand, 
stoutly  defying  the  storm,  sternly  refraining  from  what  he  feared 
mio-ht  be  the  irreverent  act  of  coverincr  his  head,  even  in  such 
circumstances,  while  engaged  in  the  worship  of  God.  But 
bad  as  wind  and  rain  and  hail  were,  this  faithful  band  of  wor- 
shippers had  sometimes  to  contend  with  a  foe  more  relentless 
than  any  of  these.  For  sometimes  the  tide  rose  so  high  during 
worship  that  preacher  and  people  had  not  only  to  quit  the  tent 


EEFUSAL  OP  SITES.  425 

but  the  gravel-pit  as  well,  and  thus  continue  the  service,  in 
spite  of  all  restrictions,  above  high-water  mark. 

"  In  connection  with  these  encroachments  of  the  tide,  I  have 
often  heard  a  pathetic  story  which,  in  these  days  of  comfortable 
and  even  luxurious  places  of  worship,  is  worth  the  telling.  It 
was  the  communion  Sabbath.  A  large  conoregation  filled  the 
tent,  and  spread  themselves  over  every  available  seat  within 
reach  of  the  preacher's  voice.  The  sacrament  was  dispensed, 
and  the  minister  was  delivering  the  after-table  address,  stand- 
ing, as  I  have  already  described  him,  looking  outwards  to  the 
larger  part  of  the  congregation,  who  could  not  be  accommodated 
in  the  tent.  An  eyewitness  has  often  described  the  scene  to  me 
somewhat  as  follows : — '  I  was  seated  near  the  minister,  at  the 
door  of  the  tent,  earnestly  listening,  when  by-and-by  my  atten- 
tion was  diverted  by  an  unaccountable  commotion  among  those 
who  were  seated  within  the  tent.  I  could  not  understand  the 
cause  of  the  commotion  which  was  evidently  spreading,  so 
that  those  sitting  nearest  me  began  also  to  be  affected.  My 
feet  were  stretched  out  before  me,  resting,  not  on  the  ground, 
but  on  a  stone  which  supported  the  end  of  a  plank  that  did 
duty  as  a  seat  on  the  occasion.  At  last  I  observed  the  minister 
looking  towards  the  ground  in  an  uneasy  manner,  as  if  even  he 
had  been  seized  by  the  spirit  of  restlessness  that  was  disturbing 
the  occupants  of  the  tent.  Looking  to  the  ground  also,  I  at 
once  perceived  the  cause  of  it  all.  The  tide  had  crawled  up 
unperceived,  and  there  sat  the  congregation — not  one  left  his 
seat — and  there  stood  the  preacher,  all  ankle-deep  in  the  tide, 
which  had  thus  stealthily  crept  up  to  them  while  they  were 
solemnly  engaged  in  the  most  sacred  rite  of  the  Church.  The 
preacher  drew  his  address  to  a  close,  a  short  parting  psalm  was 
sung,  for  the  spot  was  on  the  margin  of  a  shallow,  land-locked 
bay,  in  which  the  tide  rose  slowly ;  the  benediction  was  pro- 
nounced, and  the  congregation,  many  of  them  moved  to  tears, 
quietly  dispersed  to  their  homes.' 

"  The  tent,  as  may  be  easily  supposed,  could  not  long  withstand 
the  combined  attack  of  the  elements,  and  it  soon  became  useless 
as  a  place  of  worship.  After  it  was  destroyed,  though  the 
people  still  worshipped  in  the  open  air  when  the  weather  was 


426  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

fine,  they  had  to' find  accoramo.Jation  during  boisterous  weather 
as  best  they  could,  among  the  houses  of  friends  to  the  cause. 
Among  these  was  the  blacksmith  of  the  village,  M'Kane, a  devoted 
Free  Churchman.  At  one  end  of  his  smithy  was  a  wooden 
shed,  in  Avhich  he  shod  horses  when  the  weather  was  too  in- 
clement to  permit  of  his  doing  so  in  the  open  air.  Into  this 
shed  the  congregation  crowded  during  rough  weather.  M'Kane, 
however,  was  a  tenant  at  will,  and  soon  he  got  warning  to  quit 
from  the  proprietor.  The  impression  then  was,  and  still  is, 
among  those  who  remember  the  circumstances,  that  M'Kane  was 
turned  out  of  his  home  because  he  gave  the  use  of  his  wretched 
shed  to  the  Free  Church  congregation. 

"  My  father,  who  could  not  be  banished  at  will,  among  others, 
received  the  Free  Church  ministers  into  his  house  ;  and  one  of 
my  earliest  recollections  is  seeing  the  English-speaking  portion 
of  the  congregation  worship  in  our  house,  while  the  Gaelic- 
speaking  portion,  being  by  far  the  larger,  had  to  resort  to  the 
baru.  The  proprietor,  still  resolved  to  "stamp  out"  the  Free 
Church,  if  possible,  expressed  unmeasured  indignation,  and 
uttered  threats  of  expulsion  at  the  end  of  my  father's  lease.  Of 
course,  to  neither  threats  nor  indignation  did  my  father  pay  any 
heed,  but  continued,  if  possible,  more  zealously  than  ever  to 
befriend  Free  Church  ministers,  and  to  help  the  Free  Church 
cause.  The  upshot  is,  that  he  is  still  in  the  same  house,  while 
the  estate  of  Torosay  is  in  the  possession  of  strangers."* 

It  was  hard  enough  to  be  worshipping  down  below  high- 
water  mark,  but  on  the  opposite  coast  of  the  mainland,  at 
Strontian,  the  congregation  had  to  go  further  out  to  sea.  The 
whole  district  of  Ardnamurchan  was  the  property  of  Sir  James 
Riddell,  extending  over  an  area  some  40  miles  in  length.-f- 
Many  of  the  people  joined  the  Free  Church,  and  forwarded 
a  respectful  petition,  asking  for  sites.  His  reply  was  a  refusal, 
and  the  people  of  Strontian  had  to  meet — which  they  did 
to  the  number  of  about  500  :j: — in  the  open  air.  At  com- 
munion seasons,  and  at  other  times,  Mr.  M'Lean  of  Tober- 
mory held  service  on  the  hillside,  often  in  severe  weather,  and 

*  Disr.  ]\Iss.  Ixxxii.  pp.  1-4.         t  Report  on  Sites,  i.  p.  8,  q.  125  scq. 
X  Ibid.  iii.  p.  2,  q.  4120  seq. 


EEFUSAL  OP  SITES.  427 

soinetiraets  when  the  congregation  "  was  very  wet."  Mr.  M'Rae, 
of  Knockbain,  has  preached  to  them  with  snow  on  the  ground, 
and  when  "  it  was  laying  snow  "  at  the  time.*  At  the  summer 
communion  he  has  had  an  audience  of  2000  gathered  from 
Stroutian  and  the  neighbouring  districts. 

The  refusal  of  sites  by  the  proprietor  of  40  miles'  landed 
estates-f-  was  a  serious  matter,  but  men  at  that  time  were  not  easily 
baffled.  A  ifloating  church  was  proposed,  which  might  be 
anchored  in  some  sheltered  bay  near  the  beach,  and  give  accom- 
modation to  the  people  till  better  days  came  round.  The  idea 
was  eagerly  taken  up,  subscriptions  were  raised,  plans  carefully 
drawn  out,  the  vessel  was  contracted  for  at  an  expense  of  £1400, 
and  much  interest  was  felt  as  her  construction  went  on  in  one 
of  the  building  yards  of  the  Clyde,  under  the  skilful  superin- 
tendence of  Robert  Brown,  Esq.  of  Fairlie.  Then  came  the 
launch,  and  the  voyage  from  Greenock  to  Loch  Sunart.  At 
first  there  was  some  difficulty  as  to  a  proper  anchor- 
age for  the  vessel.  Mr.  Graham  Spiers,  Convener  of  Com- 
mittee, had  at  one  time  served  in  the  Royal  Navy,  and, 
accompanied  by  a  naval  friend,  he  went  down  in  July,  1846,  to 
fix  on  the  site.  The  best  place,  safest  for  the  ship,  and  most 
convenient  for  the  people,  would  have  been  just  under  the 
windows  of  Sir  James  Riddell's  Mansion,  but,  as  a  matter  of 
good  taste,  another  was  chosen  j  two  miles  off,  and  there,  at  a 
point  about  150  yards  from  the  shore,  the  vessel  was  safely 
moored. 

How  gladly  the  people  left  the  storm-beaten  hillside  for  this 
strange  Highland  church  of  the  sea,  need  not  be  said.  It  was 
a  singular  spectacle  on  each  returning  Sabbath  morning,  as  the 
hour  of  public  worship  drew  near,  to  see  the  boats  coasting 
along  from  north  and  south,  each  with  its  contingent  of  hearers, 
while  numerous  groups  could  be  descried  far  inland,  wending 
their  way  down  from  the  hills  to  where  the  floating  church  lay 
moored.  Men  speak  of  it  as  a  stirring  scene,  when  ropes  and 
c.ibles  were  run  out  from  the  beach,  and  the  boats  were  rapidly 
passed  backwards  and  forwards,  conveying  the  worshippers  on 

*  Report  on  Sites,  ill.  ix  11,  q.  4260  seq. 
t  Ibid.  i.  p.  8,  q.  138  seq.  X  Ibid.  i.  p.  9,  q.  141. 


428  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

board.  In  winter,  the  hearers  came  from  a  distance  of  eight  or 
nine  miles,  and  in  summer  from  a  still  wider  circuit.  In  rough 
weather  it  was  no  slight  undertaking  to  get  so  many  people  on 
board.  Even  in  summer,  when  all  was  calm,  it  was  a  tedious 
operation,  and  not  unfrequently  darkness  was  setting  in  before 
all  were  again  on  shore.*  The  numbers  who  assembled 
depended  on  the  reputation  of  the  minister  expected  to  preach, 
and  the  people  had  their  own  way  of  testing  the  esteem  in 
which  the  different  clergymen  were  held.  It  was  found  that, 
for  every  hundred  hearers,  the  vessel  sank  an  inch  in  the  water, 
Nothing,  therefore,  could  be  easier  than  to  keep  the  register. 
They  could  tell  to  an  inch  the  popularity  of  every  minister  who 
came.  A  depression  of  six  inches  told  that  a  congregation  of 
600  had  been  drawn  together,  and  on  some  occasions  it  is  said 
that  this  number  was  exceeded. 

On  the  whole,  it  would  appear  that  this  plan  of  church 
extension,  so  novel  among  the  Highlanders,  was  found  to  answer 
well.  There  was  only  one  person  whom  it  did  not  altogether 
please.  The  letters  of  Sir  James  Eiddell  are  those  of  a 
kind-hearted  and  friendly  landlord,  strongly  prejudiced  against 
the  Free  Church ;  but  when  he  came  from  the  Continent 
and  saw  what  was  going  on,  it  was  not  to  his  mind.  In 
an  interview  with  Dr.  Beith,  of  Stirling, -f*  one  of  the  officiat- 
ing ministers,  he  expressed  a  wish  to  have  the  iron  vessel 
brought  in  close  to  the  shore,  and  made  fast,  so  as  to  be  more 
convenient  for  the  people.  Dr.  Beith,  while  willing  to  consider 
the  proposal,  suggested  that,  in  agreeing  to  this,  he  was  really 
yielding  the  whole  jDrinciple,  and  might  as  well  give  a  site  at 
once.     For  that,  however,  the  time  had  not  yet  come. 

Before  going  further,  it  may  be  right  to  speak  of  the  reasons 
which  induced  these  landlords  in  so  many  cases  to  act  so  unlike 
themselves.  Their  letters  of  refusal  in  some  instances  found 
their  way  to  the  newspapers,  but  it  would  hardly  be  fair  to 
quote  statements  evidently  written  in  haste  under  the  excite- 
ment of  keen  feeling.  Their  case  appears  to  most  advantage  as 
presented  by  Sir  James  Graham  and  their  other  friends  in  the 
Committee  on  Sites. 

*  Keport  on  Sites,  ii.  p.  85,  q.  3263.  t  Ibid.  iii.  p.  93,  q.  5923. 


REFUSAL  OF  SITES.  429 

One  allegation  was  that  the  Free  Church  had  no  real  grounds 
to  stand  on ;  that  the  Disruption  was  caused  by  some  obscure 
ecclesiastical  opinion  of  no  practical  moment,  and  that  the 
people  should  just  go  back  to  the  Establishment.  To  this  the 
answer  was  obvious,  that,  in  the  opinion  of  the  Eree  Church,  the 
question  was  one  of  vital  moment.  Ministers  gave  up  their 
livings  on  account  of  it,  laymen  perilled,  and  often -lost,  their 
situations,  and  what  right  had  landlords  to  judge  other  men's 
consciences  in  regard  to  the  importance  of  their  religious  prin- 
ciples ?  It  was  clear  also,  even  on  the  showing,  of  their  oppo- 
nents, that  the  difiference  was  important.  Sir  James  Graham  and 
other  statesmen,  instead  of  yielding  the  point  at  issue,  resolved 
on  account  of  it  to  allow  the  Church  to  be  broken  up  and  her 
ministers  and  people  to  be  driven  out.  After  proving  in  this  way 
their  sense  of  its  importance,  it  was  strange  to  have  them  turning 
round  and  attempting  to  speak  of  it  as  a  thing  of  trifling  moment. 

A  second  objection  was  the  avowed  hostility  of  the  Free 
Church  to  the  Establishment.  This  was  much  dwelt  on.  Dr. 
Chalmers  denied  all  hostility,  except  that  of  fair  argument. 
Dr.  Makellar  avowed  that  if  we  could  lead  all  the  people  of 
Scotland  to  right  apprehensions  of  what  we  considered  to  be  the 
truth  of  God,  we  should  certainly  do  so.*  But  this,  some  of 
the  Committee  insisted,  would  be  to  subvert  the  Established 
Church.  The  point  was  pressed  by  question  after  question,  till 
one  of  the  English  members,  Mr.  Baines,-}-  of  Leeds,  seems  to 
have  lost  patience,  and  asked  whether  there  were  any  religious 
body  who  did  not  think  it  their  duty  by  fair  means  to  draw 
converts  to  their  side.  As  to  the  hostility  of  the  Free  Church, 
Dr.  Gordon  said  | :  "  I  do  not  know  very  well  what  is  meant  by 
the  term  hostile.  If  it  is  for  a  Church  to  propagate  its  own 
views  of  Divine  truth,  then  every  conscientious  Church  must  be 
hostile  to  every  other.  But  I  would  not  be  disposed  to  use  the 
term  hostility  in  that  case.  It  is  no  more  than  an  honest  man's 
duty  to  extend  what  he  believes  to  be  the  truth  of  God." 

A  third  point  much  urged  was  the  severity  of  the  Umguage 
used  by  Free  Churchmen.     As  to  this,  it  was  frankly  admitted 

♦  Eeport  on  Sites,  i.  p.  59,  q.  891.  t  Ibid.  p.  60,  q.  905. 

I  Ibid.  p.  69,  q.  1042. 


430  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION, 

that  the  oppression  which  makes  even  a  wise  man  mad  had  in 
some  cases  called  forth  language  which  could  not  be  defended. 
In  the  heat  of  debate  there  had  been  a  good  deal  of  this  on 
both  sides  ;  and  it  was  not  a  pleasant  thing  when  the  worst 
sayings  of'  each  were  set  in  array  before  the  Committee,  and 
-English  gentlemen  were  asked  to  judge  whether  the  Establish- 
ment had  succeeded  in  saying  the  hardest  things  against  the 
Free  Church,  or  the  Free  Church  against  the  Establishment. 
It  turned  out  that  some  of  the  harshest  sayings  imputed  to 
Free  Churchmen  owed  much  of  their  offensiveness  to  the  gar- 
bled form  in  which  they  had  been  quoted.  The  truth,  however, 
was  well  put  by  Dr.  Chalmers: — "I  will  not  justify  hard  say- 
ings. .  .  .  Those  hard  sayings  were  all  very  natural,  as  far  as  I 
understand,  but  not  justifiable."  He  reminded  the  Committee, 
however,  that  there  was  a  great  difference  between  the  random 
sayings  of  those  who  suffer  wrong,  and  the  deliberate  doings  of 
those  who  inflict  the  wrong.* 

But,  after  all,  even  if  the  offensive  language  had  been  worse 
than  it  was,  where  was  the  justice  of  making  the  punishment 
fall  on  the  inhabitants  of  distant  country  parishes,  who  were 
in  this  respect  wholly  blameless?  If  some  newspaper  article 
was  unduly  severe,  why  should  the  shepherds  of  Strathspey  have 
to  suffer  for  it,  while  the  editor  went  free.  If  some  too  fervid 
speaker  had  let  his  eloquence  run  riot  at  Edinburgh  or  Glasgow, 
was  that  a  reason  why  fhe  congregations  in  Skye  should  have 
to  sit  and  be  snowed  upon  while  worshipping  in  the  open  air  ? 
The  cruelty  of  this  was  referred  to  by  Dr.  Candlish  at  the  Inver- 
ness Assembly  of  184:5,  in  terms  which  show  how  keenly  the 
injustice  was  felt. 

Passing  from  these  general  statements,  however,  we  must  now 
refer  to  certain  cases  which  occurred  in  the  south  of  Scotland, 
and  which  unhappily  became  only  too  prominent  in  public 
view. 

Canonbie  is  a  rural  parish  in  Dumfriesshire,*!-  lying  along  the 
English  border.  The  whole  land  belongs  to  the  Duke  of  Buc- 
cleuch,  who  is  known  in  Scotland  as  one  of  the  most  fair-minded 

*  Keport  on  Sites,  iii.  p.  120,  q.  6349  ;  p.  143,  q.  6477. 
+  Ibid.  i.  p.  39,  q.  541  seq. 


REFUSAL  OF  SITES.  431 

and  kindest  of  proprietors.  With  few  exceptions,  the  inhabitants 
were  in  his  Grace's  employment  as  tenants-at-will  or  dependents. 
At  the  Disruption,  the  adherents  of  the  Free  Church  met  in  the 
open  air  for  public  worship  in  front  of  a  row  of  cottages.  The 
numbers  were  considerable,  but  before  applying  for  a  site,  they 
wished  to  have  the  congregation  consolidated.  A  canvas  tent 
was  procured  from  Edinburgh ;  and  relying  on  the  kindly  feel- 
ings of  the  landlord,  they  had  it  erected  on  the  corner  of  a  moss 
or  moor,  where  the  land  was  of  little  value,  in  the  confident 
expectation  that  no  offence  would  be  taken.  For  three  or  four 
Sabbaths  all  went  well  but  suddenly  that  formidable  engine  of 
law,  an  interdict,  came  from  the  sheriff.  The  tent  was 
ordered  to  be  removed,  and  the  people,  as  they  believed,  were 
prohibited  from  meeting  on  any  part  of  the  Duke's  lands. 

At  first  sight  it  appeared  as  if  this  must  be  fatal.  A  solitary 
case  had  at  last  occurred  in  which  the  Free  Church  must  be 
overborne.  There  was  no  friendly  sea-shore  where  they  might 
meet  between  tide-marks,  and  the  far-reaching  Buccleuch 
estates  stretching  on  either  hand  left  them  no  hope  of  taking 
refuge  on  any  neighbouring  property.  There  was  just  one 
resource  left — the  open  grassy  side  of  the  public  road  where 
the  people  might  meet  to  worship  God.  No  tent  could  be  used 
as  it  would  have  been  illegal  to  dig  holes  on  the  roadside  for  the 
necessary  supports.  All  that  could  be  done  was  to  select  a  spot 
near  some  trees  which  on  stormy  days  might  serve  partially  to 
break  the  force  of  the  blast. 

In  these  circumstances  the  congregation  met  from  Sabbath 
to  Sabbath,  comprising  not  only  the  day-labourers  and  the 
smaller  tenants,  but  some  of  the  leading  farmers  in  the  district. 
At  the  approach  of  the  first  winter,  a  petition  was  got  up  asking 
for  a  site.  It  was  signed  by  1083  persons,  and,  to  their  credit 
be  it  said,  fully  the  half  of  the  names  were  those  of  persons 
belonging  to  the  Established  Church,  who  were  anxious  to  see 
such  a  public  grievance  removed.  The  petition  was  duly  sent, 
but,  to  the  surprise  of  many,  the  receipt  of  it  was  not  even 
acknowledged.* 

How  the  months  of  winter  were  got  through  we  shall  see ; 
*  Report  on  Sites,  i.  p.  41,  q.  585. 


432  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

but  during  the  following  summer  an  incident  took  place  which 
was  not  without  effect.  In  the  month  of  July  a  rumour  spread 
through  the  parish  that  the  Rev.  Dr.  Gordon,  of  the  High 
Church,  Edinburgh,  himself  a  Dumfriesshire  man,  who  stood  in 
the  foremost  rank  of  Scotland's  most  honoured  clergymen,  was 
coming  to  dispense  the  Lord's  Supper  to  that  outcast  congrega- 
tion on  the  wayside.  He  was  to  be  accompanied  by  three 
devoted  elders,  landed  proprietors  of  high  social  position,  ]\Ir. 
Claud  Alexander  of  Ballochmyle ;  Mr.  Howieson  Crawfurd  of 
Crawfurdland ;  and  Mr.  Adam  Rolland  of  Cask,  who  were  to 
be  joined  in  the  services  of  the  communion  by  Sir  Patrick 
Maxwell  of  Springkell,  an  extensive  Dumfriesshire  landlord. 
The  situation  was  becoming  serious.  It  would  hardly  do  to 
treat  this  intelligence  as  the  Canonbie  petition  had  been  treated. 
The  factor  of  the  Duke  appeared  on  the  scene  to  say  that  his 
Grace  could  not  bear  to  think  "that  so  holy  an  office  should 
be  desecrated  by  being  unnecessarily  celebrated  by  the  side  of 
the  public  highway."  The  use  of  a  field  was  offered  for  the 
purpose  ;  and,  under  the  superintendence  of  the  factor,  the  place 
was  fixed  on,  a  gravel-pit  was  cleared  out  and  levelled,  the  tent 
was  erected,  and  all  was  made  ready. 

When  Sabbath  morning  came,  and  Dr.  Gordon  and  his 
friends  arrived  on  the  ground,  they  found  an  audience  assembled 
of  at  least  a  thousand  hearers,  who  had  come  from  all  the 
surrounding  parishes.  It  was  vain  to  think  of  using  a  tent. 
Out  on  the  open  field,  under  the  canopy  of  heaven,  the  communion 
tables  were  spread.  The  day  was  bright  and  pleasant;  the 
services  peculiarly  solemn  and  memorable  to  many  for  the  deep 
impression  which  was  made,  and  the  spiritual  benefits  which 
were  received. 

A  great  point  had  now  been  gained.  Under  the  sanction  of 
the  factor,  the  tent  had  been  pitched  at  the  gravel-pit.  Thank- 
fully the  people,  in  an  address  which  they  sent  to  the  Duke, 
acknowledged  his  kindness,  and  were  assured  in  reply,  that  as  a 
temporary  arrangement  the  tent  might  be  allowed  to  stand,  but 
no  site  must  be  expected  to  be  given  on  his  lands.  The  congre- 
gation must  disperse. 

It  is  touching  to  see  the  gratitude  of  the  people  for  such  a 


REFUSAL  OF  SITES.  433 

concession ;  and  some  readers  may  be  ready  to  think  that  it  was 
quite  as  great  as  the  occasion  called  for.  But  during  the 
previous  winter  there  had  been  trials  and  hardships  severe 
enough  to  make  them  sincerely  thankful  for  even  such  a  favour. 
The  Rev.  Peter  Hope,  afterwards  settled  at  Wamphray,  brings 
their  trials  strikingly  before  us. 

"  After  the  struggle  between  the  Duke  and  the  Free  Church 
was  fairly  begun,  I  preached  my  first  sermon  in  Canonbie  as  a 
probationer  appointed  to  the  post  by  the  Free  Church.  It  was 
on  the  ]ytli  of  November  that  I  first  addressed  the  houseless 
and  shivering  congregation.  I  had  preached  the  year  before 
in  the  parish  church,  where  everything  was  comfortable.  But 
how  different  were  the  circumstances  in  which  I  now  proclaimed 
the  Word  of  God  !  It  was  indeed  sad  to  see  old  men  and  women 
and  little  children  standing  exposed  on  the  open  road  to  the  wind 
and  rain  in  this  Christian  land,  and  near  the  middle  of  the 
nineteenth  century,  listening  to  no  political  harangue,  but 
simply  to  the  Gospel  of  Christ ;  and  all  because  of  their  having 
been  driven  from  a  barren  moor,  where  the  wandering  gipsies 
are  made  welcome  to  pitch  their  tents,  and  dwell  for  weeks 
together.  During  the  winter  we  met  Sabbath  after  Sabbath, 
the  length  of  the  service  being  determined  by  the  state  of  the 
weather.  The  firmness  and  steadiness  of  the  congregation  were 
truly  admirable. 

"  The  last  Sabbath  of  February  was  the  stormiest  of  the  winter. 

I  had  arranged  to  exchange  services  with  the  Rev.  Mr.  Ross, 

afterwards  settled  at  Langholm,  and  early  in  the  morning  I  rode 

through  the  blinding  drift  of  snow  to  that  town,  in  order  to 

fulfil    my  engagement ;    but  on  arriving  there   it  was  found 

impossible  for    Mr.  Eoss    to    go    to   Canonbie,  owing    to    the 

tremendous  boisterousness  of  the  weather.    With  great  difficulty 

I  rode   back   through  wind  and  snow  to  our  usual  place  of 

meeting,  and  found  actually  between  thirty  and  forty  people 

assembled.     I  conducted  a  short  service,  and  sent  them  home. 

It  was  certainly  an  impressive  and  solemn   sight,   that  little 

company   of  worshippers,  their  plaids  and   clothes   all    white 

with  snow,  standing  on  the  highway,  listening  to  the  injunction 

to  have  the  same  mind  in  them  which  was  also  in  Christ ;  to 

2F 


434  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

render  to  no  man  evil  for  evil,  but  to  overcome  evil  with 
good. 

"  During  the  month  of  March,  Mr.  Guthrie  preached  at 
Canonbie.  The  day  was  wet,  windy,  and  cold.  During  the 
interval  between  the  services,  and  during  almost  the  whole  of 
the  afternoon  services,  the  rain  fell  in  torrents.  But  it  did  not 
prevent  a  congregation  of  between  five  and  six  hundred 
people  assembling  to  hear  the  striking  and  impassioned  preacher. 
He  was  himself  deeply  impressed  with  the  scene  ;  and  he  will 
be  sure  to  give  the  world  a  vivid  picture  of  what  he  saw.  I  had 
a  good  deal  of  intercourse  with  Mr.  Guthrie  during  his  short 
visit,  and  was  highly  pleased  with  his  curious  and  fervid  con- 
versation. He  is  a  man  not  merely  to  dazzle  and  delight  by 
his  free  and  happy  fancy,  and  bold  and  moving  eloquence,  but 
he  can  also  guide  by  his  sagacious  counsel,  and  draw  every  one 
to  his  side  by  his  frank  and  gladsome  spirit,  and  by  the  kindli- 
ness of  his  heart."  * 

How  vivid  was  the  impression  of  this  scene  on  his  mind 
the  following  description,  in  a  letter  written  at  the  time, 
will  show.  On  the  previous  day,  he  had  reached  Langholm, 
where  he  stayed  over  night,  and  next  morning,  he  says  : — 
"Well  wrapped  up,  I  drove  out  to  Canonbie — the  hills  white 
with  snow — the  roads  covered  ankle  deep  in  many  places  with 
slush,  the  wind  high  and  cold,  thick  rain  lashing  on,  and  the 
Esk  by  our  side  all  the  way  roaring  in  the  snow-flood  between 
bank  and  brae.  We  passed  Johnnie  Armstrong's  Tower,  yet 
strong  even  in  its  ruins,  and  after  a  drive  of  four  miles,  a  turn 
of  the  road  brought  me  in  view  of  a  sight  which  was  over- 
powering, and  would  have  brought  the  salt  tear  into  the  eyes  of 
any  man  of  common  humanity.  .  .  .  [The  person  who  drove  me, 
when  we  came  in  sight  of  that  congregation,  burst  into  tears, 
<ind  asked  me, '  Was  there  cer  sight  seen  like  that  ?']...  There, 
under  the  naked  boughs  of  some  spreading  oak  trees,  at  the 
point  where  a  county  road  joined  the  turnpike,  stood  a  tent 
[pulpit],  around,  or,  rather,  in  front  of  which  was  gathered  a 
large  group  of  muffled  men  and  women,  with  some  little  children 
— a  few  sitting,  most  of  them  standing,  and  some  old  venerable 
*  Memoir  of  Rev.  P.  Hope,  by  Eev.  J.  Dodds,  p.  33. 


EEPUSAL  OF  SITES,  435 

widows  cowering  under  the  scanty  shelter  of  an  umbrella.  On 
all  sides,  each  road  was  adding  a  stream  of  plaided  men  and 
muffled  women  to  the  group,  till  the  congregation  had  increased 
to  between  500  and  GOO,  gathering  on  the  very  road,  and  wait- 
ing my  forthcoming  from  a  mean  inn  where  I  found  shelter  till 
the  hour  of  worship  had  come.  During  the  psalm  singing  and 
first  prayer,  I  was  in  the  tent,  but  finding  that  I  would  be 
uncomfortably  confined,  I  took  up  my  position  on  a  chair  in 
front,  having  my  hat  on  my  head,  my  Codrington  close-buttoned 
up  to  my  throat,  and  a  pair  of  boots,  which  were  wet  through 
with  rain  ere  the  service  was  over.  The  rain  lashed  on  heavily 
during  the  latter  part  of  the  sermon,  but  none  budged  ;  and 
when  my  hat  was  off  during  the  last  prayer,  some  man  kindly 
extended  an  umbrella  over  my  head.  I  was  so  interested,  and 
so  were  the  people,  that  our  forenoon  service  continued  for 
about  two  hours.  At  the  close,  I  felt  so  much  for  the  people, 
it  Avas  such  a  sad  sight  to  see  old  men  and  women,  some 
children,  and  one  or  two  people  joale  and  sickly,  and  apparently 
near  the  grave,  all  wet  and  benumbed  with  the  keen  wind  and 
cold  rain,  that  I  proposed  to  have  no  afternoon  service,  but  this 
met  with  universal  dissent.  ,  .  ,  So  we  met  again  at  three 
o'clock,  and  it  poured  on  almost  without  intermission  during  the 
whole  service  ;  and  that  over,  shaken  cordially  by  many  a  man 
and  woman's  hand,  I  got  into  the  gig  and  drove  here  [Langholm] 
in  time  for  an  evening  service,  followed,  through  rain  from 
heaven  and  wet  snow  on  the  road,  by  a  number  of  the  people. 
I  hope  that  the  Lord  will  bless  the  words,  and,  with  spiritual 
grace,  make  up  to  the  people  for  their  bodily  sufferings."* 

When  such  trials  were  made  public,  they  naturally  awakened 
considerable  feeling,  and  ministers  from  a  distance  came  to  show 
their  sympathy  with  the  people,  especially  when  the  Lord's  Supper 
was  dispensed.  One  of  the  venerated  fathers  of  the  Church,  Dr. 
Makellar,  speaks  of  his  experience  on  two  of  these  occasions.*!- 
In  July,  1845,  the  year  following  the  visit  of  Dr,  Gordon,  the 
tent  again  proved  to  be  too  small,  and  the  communion  table  was 
spread  outside  on  the  grass.  The  morning  was  fine,  but  rain 
came  on  during  service,  which   exceedingly   incommoded   the 

*  Report  on  Sites,  i.  p.  71,  q.  1092.  +  Ibid.  i.  p.  56,  q.  844  seq. 


436  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

people;  and,  he  states,  "injured  wliat  we  call  the  communion 
elements."  But  in  1846,  when  they  once  more  had  to  meet  in 
the  open  air,  things  were  more  trying.  "  The  early  part  of  the 
day  was  one  of  the  finest  I  ever  witnessed.  About  the  middle 
of  the  service,  clouds  began  to  collect,  thunder  and  lightning 
came  on,  forming  altogether  a  storm,  the  most  tremendous  I 
ever  witnessed."  Dr.  Makellar  adds  that,  in  the  midst  of  this 
scene,  the  administration  of  the  Lord's  Supper  was  proceeded 
with  quietly  and  calmly,  about  a  thousand  people  being  present. 

As  time  went  on,  it  became  a  question  what  was  to  be  done, 
the  tent  being  held  by  a  tenure  so  precarious.  The  congregation, 
however,  instead  of  dispersing,  went  on  increasing  in  numbers 
and  determination.  "  The  canvas  tent,"  an  eye-witness  writes,* 
"  found  shelter  from  the  violence  of  the  winter  storms  in  an  old 
gravel-pit  in  the  valley,  under  the  shadow  of  one  of  Canonbie's 
thousand  oaks — meet  emblems  of  her  sturdy  sons.  When  the 
Free  Church  proceedings  began,  many  came  from  motives  of 
curiosity  to  hear,  and,  blessed  be  God,  the  word  came  in  power  to 
some  of  their  hearts.  The  first-fruits  of  the  Free  Church  in  Canon- 
bie  have  been  '  the  swearer  forgetting  his  oath,  and  the  drunk- 
ard forsaking  his  haunts.'  I  have  heard  instances  of  this  which 
would,  perhaps,  call  tears  to  the  eyes  of  some  of  your  readers," 

In  these  circumstances,  the  Church  resolved  to  do  what 
every  Church  deserving  of  the  name  would  have  done.  They 
disregarded  the  precariousness  of  the  tenure.  The  General 
Assembly  formed  the  people  into  a  regularly  constituted 
congregation.  Taking  all  risks,  they  called  a  minister, 
who  was  duly  settled.  A  kirk-session  was  ordained,  the 
ecclesiastical  arrangements  were  all  complete,  and  they  calmly 
awaited  the  time  when  a  site  would  be  given. 

More  striking,  perhaps,  than  even  Canonbie  was  another 
case  in  the  northern  division  of  Dumfriesshire,  where  it  borders 
on  the  county  of  Lanark. 

Wanlockliead,f  one  of  the  most  remarkable  villages  in  Scot- 

*  Witness  newspaper,  5th  February,  1845. 

t  The  facts  here  given  in  this  account  of  Wanlockhead  are  all  taken 
either  from  the  Report  on  Sites  or  from  the  Disruption  Mss.  xix.  and 
Ixviii. 


REFUSAL  OF  SITES.  437 

land,  consists  of  scattered  rows  of  thatched  cottages,  built  some 
1500  feet  above  the  sea  among  "a  wilderness  of  mountains,"  at 
the  highest  elevation  on  which  it  is  believed  any  village  stands 
in- Britain.  During  the  reign  of  Queen  Elizabeth,  a  German  of 
the  name  of  Cornelius  Hardskins,  coming  to  the  place  in  search 
of  gold,  discovered  those  lead  mines  which  ever  since  have  proved 
"  the  most  productive  in  the  kingdom."  The  place. is  bleak  and 
inhospitable,  "  where  one  might  hardly  expect  to  find  a  shep- 
herd's hut ; "  but  homes  were  required  for  the  miners,  and  thus 
the  village  was  built,  which  in  1843  contained  rather  more 
than  800  inhabitants. 

In  this  remote  locality  the  people  had  developed  to  an  extra- 
ordinary degree  the  best  national  characteristics  of  Scotchmen. 
Dr.  Richardson,  the  traveller,  whose  works  were  at  one  time  in 
high  repute,  compares  the  Wanlockhead  mountains  to  some  of 
the  mountainous  districts  of  Palestine,  but  speaks  of  the  remark- 
able difference  of  the  inhabitants  —  the  thievinof,  ignorant 
Orientals  as  contrasted  with  the  men  of  Wanlockhead,  an 
honest,  industrious  population,  where  "  the  conversation  of  the 
commonest  people  will  often  delight  and  surprise  the  man  of 
letters."  The  estimate  of  Dr.  Chalmers  was  not  less  emphatic  : 
"  These  miners  were  the  finest  specimen  of  the  Scottish  peas- 
antry he  had  ever  seen." 

Blessings  often  come  to  us  in  disguise.  The  unhealthy  occu- 
pation of  lead-mining  prevented  the  men  working  more  than 
six  hours  a-day ;  and,  happily,  the  leisure  thus  obtained  was 
turned  to  good  account.  About  the  year  1756  they  established 
a  subscription  library  for  their  amusement  and  edification  ;  the 
ordinances  of  religion  were  regularly  observed ;  and  they  have 
maintained  "  a  high  character  for  intelligence,  sobriety,  and 
morality,"  enjoying  their  excellent  library,  and  exhibiting  "  a 
zeal  in  the  acquisition  of  useful  knowledge  which  is  truly 
astonishing."  Few  persons,  Mr.  Hastings  adds,  leave  their 
native  place  without  desiring  to  get  back.  The  people  live  in 
great  comfort,  peace,  and  happiness. 

In  such  a  community,  as  might  have  been  expected,  the  Ten 
Years'  Conflict  was  eagerly  watched.  Pamphlets  and  news- 
papers were  read  and  canvassed  with  keen  intelligence ;  and 


438  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

when  the  crisis  came  they  were  ready.  Three-fourths  of  the 
peojDle,  along  with  their  minister,  Mr.  Hastings,  at  once  joined 
the  Free  Church,  and  brought  on  themselves  a  series  of  trials  of 
which  they  had  little  idea. 

The  mines  and  surrounding  lands  belonged  to  the  Duke  of 
Buccleuch ;  the  miners  were  his  workmen ;  but  the  kindly 
treatment  which  they  had  invariably  received  at  his  hands 
made  them  confident  that  none  of  his  dependents  would  be  sub- 
jected to  personal  hardship  because  of  their  religious  opinions. 

In  July,  1843,  the  first  petition  was  sent  respectfully  apply- 
ing for  a  site ;  but,  as  in  the  case  of  Canonbie,  the  receipt  of  it 
was  not  acknowledged.* 

Six  weeks  afterwards,  they  again  appealed  in  more  urgent 
terms.  They  are  his  Grace's  workmen  and  dependents,  they 
say ;  they  are  much  attached  to  his  interests  and  to  his  person ; 
and  they  express  a  hope  that  he  will  grant  what  they  so 
greatly  need.  This  time  the  factor  writes  that  the  request  is 
refused. -f- 

Winter  came,  and  amidst  the  storms  of  January  the  out- 
going minister  makes  a  personal  appeal  for  the  use  of  a  school- 
room standing  empty.  Again  the  factor  writes  that  the  request 
is  declined.^ 

In  July,  1844,  the  Presbytery  addressed  the  Duke  in  urgent 
terms,  asking  for  some  concession  before  the  people  are  over- 
taken by  the  storms  of  a  second  winter.  "  May  the  Lord  God 
of  our  fathers,  who  has  been  pleased  to  make  you  the  steward 
of  so  large  a  portion  of  this  earth,  incline  your  heart  to  grant 
the  request  1"  Once  more  there  came,  through  the  factor,  a 
simple  refusal.  § 

Then  the  people  resolved  on  yet  another  attempt.  The 
Duke  had  come  to  their  neighbourhood — was  staying  at  Drum- 
lanrig,  the  grand  old  castle  of  the  Queensberry  family  ;  and  if 
only  they  could  get  a  personal  interview^  they  were  confident  he 
would  not  refuse  them.  For  the  time,  however,  this  led  to  no 
favourable  result.  Last  of  all,  Dr.  Chalmers  made  an  attempt. 
In  former  days  he  had  received  convincing  proof  of  the  Duke's 

*  Report  on  Sites,  ii.  p.  139.  +  Ibid.  p.  140. 

X  Ibid.  §  Ibid.  p.  141.  IT  Ibid.  p.  142. 


REFUSAL  OF  SITES.  439 

kindness  and  confidence  ;  and  he  resolved  to  use  whatever  influ- 
ence he  had,  on  behalf  of  the  people.  The  receipt  of  his  letter 
was  never  even  acknowledged.* 

All  this  was  so  utterly  unlike  the  Duke's  usual  mode  of  act- 
ing that  it  was  obvious  some  false  or  exaggerated  information-|- 
must  have  reached  him  from  those  who  were  hostile  to  the 
Free  Church.  It  almost  seemed  as  if  he  had  yielded  to  the 
suggestions  of  some  who  wished  to  try  the  experiment  whether. 
a  Free  Church  congregation  could  be  driven  back  into  the 
Establishment.  The  circumstances,  it  must  be  confessed,  were 
favourable.  Up  among  these  wild  hills,  1500  feet  above  the 
sea,  the  wind  even  in  summer  blows  chill  and  keen,  while  in 
winter,  as  one  of  the  witnesses  states,  it  has  occasionally  been 
found  impossible  for  a  human  being  to  stand  for  an  hour 
exposed  in  the  open  air.J  The  plan,  therefore,  was  a  simple 
one  :  deny  the  people  ground  on  which  to  build  ;  let  the  minis- 
ter get  no  site  for  a  manse;  and  that  terrible  climate  will 
do  the  rest.  The  people  must  go  back  to  the  pews  they 
have  left,  and  the  Free  Church  would  be  driven  from  the 
glen. 

If  men  reasoned  thus,  they  should  have  known  their  country- 
men better.  Two  miles  beyond  the  head  of  the  valley  in  which 
the  village  stands,  lies  the  Pass  of  Enterkin,  with  its  memories  of 
the  time  when  the  shepherds  of  these  hills  rose  for  the  rescue  of 
their  covenanting  brethren,  and  met  and  overthrew  the  dragoons 
of  Claverhouse.  Not  far  off  over  the  mountains  was  the  battle- 
field of  Airs  Moss,  where  Cameron  laid  down  his  life ;  and  under 
the  thatched  roofs  of  Wanlockhead,  there  still  lived  a  race  of 
humble,  intelligent.  God-fearing  men,  ready,  if  called  on,  to  let 
the  world  see  that  the  national  manhood  of  Scotland,  and  the 
earnest  spiritual  life  of  former  generations,  were  not  yet  dead. 
The  bearing  of  the  people  was  indeed  calm  and  respectful. 
Even  when  matters  were  at  the  worst,  visitors  who  went  among 
them  testified  that  not  an  angry  word  could  be  heard.  Tiiat, 
however,  is  only  another  national  characteristic.    When  the  best 

*  Report,  i.  p.  94. 

t  Report  on  Sites,  i.  p.  55,  56,  qq.  S18,  829. 

I  Ibid.  i.  p.  54,  q.  769. 


440  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

class  of  the  Scottish  people  are  most  determined,  they  are  often 
most  calm ;  and  when  that  is  their  mood,  the  very  last  thing 
to  be  expected  is  that  they  will  submit  to  have  their  conscien- 
tious convictions  overborne. 

To  these  poor  miners  it  had  become  plain  at  last  that  all 
appeals  to  the  forbearance  and  kindness  of  their  landlord  were 
in  vain,  and  preparations  were  made  for  the  coming  struggle. 
Mr.  Hastings,  their  minister,  had  broken  up  his  home,  and  sent 
his  wife  and  family  to  Dumfries — a  distance  of  thirty  miles. 
For  himself  he  found  accommodation  in  a  workman's  thatched 
cottage,  where  the  widow  of  one  of  the  miners  gave  him  the  use  of 
a  single  room,  low  in  the  roof,  ten  feet  square,  as  stated  in 
evidence,*  and  this  was  the  minister's  sitting-room,  bedroom, 
and  study,  all  in  one.  "  A  miserably  small  place,"  Dr.  Guthrie 
says  after  visiting  it ;  and  there  Mr.  Hastings  prepared  to  face 
pastoral  work  such  as  has  seldom  if  ever  been  known  in 
Scotland. 

The  conducting  of  Sabbath  services  was  the  great  difficulty. 
Sometimes  the  congregation  met  on  the  bare  hillside,  sometimes 
in  one  of  the  valleys,  changing  the  locality  so  as  to  escape  as 
far  as  possible  the  fury  of  the  blast,  though  no  change  could 
free  them  from  the  cold  benumbing  wind,  and  the  frequent 
showers  of  rain  and  snow.-f- 

Mr.  Graham  Spiers  tells  of  a  day  when  he  was  present  in  the 
beginning  of  March,  1846.  Dr.  Candlish  preached  in  the  small 
ravine  near  the  village.  "  The  wooden  erection  which  served  for 
a  pulpit  was  placed  in  the  bottom  of  the  hollow,  and  the  people 
sat  most  of  them  on  stones  upon  the  side  of  the  hill,  and  some 
of  them  round  the  minister  on  chairs  which  they  had  brought." 
It  was  a  very  wet  and  boisterous  day.    "  The  service  lasted  about 

*  The  height  is  6  feet  8  inches.  Mr.  Hastings  was  inclined  to  make 
the  best  of  his  "  wee  room."  He  "  often  spoke  of  its  comfort."  He 
considered  it  indeed  a  most  favourable  circumstance  that  he  was  able  to 
obtain  even  such  a  lodging.  It  enabled  him  to  remain.  That  his 
health  suffered,  however,  cannot  be  doubted.  While  preaching  in  the 
open  air,  "  the  exposure  to  the  brightness  of  the  sun,"  he  says,  "  has 
injured  my  eyes."  Perliaps  the  confined  room  had  also  something  to  do 
with  it. 

+  See  note  at  p.  414,  ante. 


V 


REFUSAL  OF  SITES.  441 

an  hour  and  three-quarters.  I  was  quite  wet  through,  and  I 
suppose  every  other  person  must  have  been  the  same."  * 

During  the  following  month  Dr.  Guthrie  was  in  Dumfries  on 
his  celebrated  manse-building  tour,  and  went  to  show  his 
sympathy.  He  was  struck  with  the  appearance  of  the  place 
— a  very  high,  stormy,  inhospitable  locality. f  "I  preached  on 
the  open  hill,  down  in  a  sort  of  hollow,  and  the  people  were 
ranged  on  the  side  of  the  mountain.  It  was  a  swampy  place, 
and  I  wished  to  have  some  protection  between  ray  feet  and  the 
wet  ground.  I  saw  some  fine  planks  of  wood  lying  close  by, 
and  I  wondered  why  the  people  did  not  take  them  and  use 
them.  In  place  of  that  they  went  to  a  house  and  brought  an 
old  door.  After  service,  they  said  that  the  planks  belonged  to 
the  Duke  of  Buccleuch,  and  they  would  not  touch  them  in  case 
any  offence  should  be  taken.  The  people  were  standing  on  the 
wet  grass,  and  there  were  showers  lashing  on  occasionally  dur- 
ing service  —  what  they  call  hill  showers  -r-  and  they  were 
exposed  to  the  storm  and  rain." 

The  Eev.  P.  Borrowman,  minister  of  Glencairn,  in  the  same 
Presbytery,  had  much  to  do  in  strengthening  the  hands  of  Mr. 
Hastings  and  his  people.  Often  in  summer  he  has  preached  to 
them  in  the  open  air,  and  has  seen  them  "  v/et  through."  When 
winter  came  with  frost  and  snow,  the  cold  caused  extreme 
suffering.  He  has  felt  so  benumbed  that  at  the  close  of  the 
service  he  could  not  get  off  the  stone  on  which  he  was  standing 
till  he  was  helped  down.  J  This  was  not  due  to  any  unusual 
degree  of  cold.  The  congregation  had  often  to  encounter  such 
weather. 

For  two  winters  these  trials  were  patiently  borne,  but  when 
a  third  season  was  approaching  an  attempt  was  made  to  mitigate 
the  evil.  A  canvas  tent  was  got  from  Edinburgh,  in  the  hope 
that  it  might  give  some  relief,  but  the  climate  soon  proved  too 
much  for  it.  Mr.  James  Weir,  who  acted  as  precentor  at  the  time, 
narrates  the  circumstances  of  the  experiment: — "The  tent, 
though  it  lasted  only  a  few  months,  had  an  eventful  history, 

*  Report  on  Sites,  i.  pp.  7,  8,  qq.  105-123. 

+  Ibid.  p.  72,  q.  1094  seq. 

I  Ibid.  ii.  p.  3,  qq.  1377-1391. 


442  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

during  which  the  young  men  of  the  congregation  acquired  con- 
siderable experience  in  handling  canvas.  On  Saturday,  the  27th 
December,  1845,  the  day  after  it  arrived,  the  office-bearers  and 
a  good  many  of  the  congregation  assembled  for  its  erection ; 
but  before  it  was  up  heavy  rain  came  on,  completely  drenching 
us,  and  afterwards  the  wind  rose,  and  the  tent  was  levelled  to 
the  ground  by  eleven  o'clock  that  night.  Next  day  was  frosty, 
and  the  ground  was  white  with  snow.  Mr.  Borrowman,  of 
Glencairn,  standing  on  the  top  of  an  old  dyke,  preached  to  a 
congregation  of  two  hundred.  We  next  erected  the  tent  in  the 
somewhat  sheltered  kailyard  of  one  of  our  number  ;  but  on  the 
first  very  stormy  Sabbath,  the  21st  February,  1846,  some  of  us 
had  to  go  out  and  tighten  the  ropes  during  the  sermon,  as  the 
canvas  was  coming  and  going,  and  flapping  so  much  about  the 
minister's  ears  that  he  could  not  get  on.  In  the  course  of  a  few 
months  the  canvas  was  so  torn  by  the  wind  that  no  tightening 
of  the  ropes  would  do  any  good,  and  we  were  again  unsheltered."  * 

Without  shelter,  however,  it  was  impossible  to  face  the  rigor- 
ous severities  of  winter,  and  new  arrangements  had  to  be  made. 
The  congregation  was  divided  into  sections,  five  of  the  most 
commodious  cottages  were  fixed  on  as  places  of  meeting,  each 
having  a  certain  number  of  the  hearers  assigned  to  it,  and  in 
these  the  Sabbath  services  were  held,  the  minister  going  from 
cottage  to  cottage,  till  the  whole  congregation  were  gone  over. 
This  continued  for  a  time  ;  but  six  services  of  an  hour  and 
a-half  each  were  too  much  for  human  strength,  and  the  num- 
ber was  diminished,  the  object,  however,  being  still  kept  in 
view  of  securing  for  the  people  the  benefits  of  public  worship. 
The  neighbouring  ministers  came  to  the  aid  of  Mr.  Hastings. 
"  We  felt,"  Mr.  Borrowman  states,  "  that  he  was  exposed  to 
harder  work  than  the  rest  of  us,  and  we  used  to  take  it  in  turn 
to  assist  him."  -|- 

Thus  the  years  passed  on,  and  while  Mr.  Hastings  was 
wearing  himself  out,  the  people  not  only  remained  unshaken  in 
their  attachment  to  the  Free  Church,  but  the  trials  seemed  to 
have  brought  a  blessing,  and  their  spiritual  earnestness  was 
growing  deeper.  Little  was  said  of  their  trials:  when  the 
*  Disr.  Mss.  Ixviii.  +  Report  on  Sites,  ii.  p.  3,  q.  1386. 


EEFUSAL  OF  SITES.  443 

weather  would  at  all  admit  of  it,  they  met  in  the  open  air.  "  I 
have  seldom,"  says  Mr.  Hastings,  "referred  to  our  peculiar 
circumstances  except  that,  when  the  rain  was  pouring  down  on 
us  in  torrents,  I  may  have  prayed  that  the  Lord  would  open 
the  Duke's  heart  to  relieve  us  from  the  great  difficulties  of  our 
position.  Many  times  my  heart  failed  me,  and  my  utterance 
was  choked,  to  witness  the  patient  endurance  of  the  people.  .  .  . 
Even  last  Sabbath,  when  our  Communion  was  celebrated,  both 
minister  and  elders  were  nearly  drenched  during  the  solemn 
services."  * 

But  while  at  Wanlockhead  itself,  they  showed  such  calmness 
and  resignation,  yet,  when  the  facts  were  made  known  through 
the  country,  much  painful  feeling  began  to  arise.  "  One  does 
not  like  to  trust  himself  to  speak  of  them,"  said  Dr.  Candlish. 
"  Such  instances  of  patient  suffering  excite  feelings  in  reference 
to  those  whom  we  desire  to  reverence  as  occupying  the  higher 
grades  of  society,  which  we  are  anxious,  for  their  sakes  and  for 
ourselves,  to  repress."  Indignant  utterances,  however,  sometimes 
came  from  other  quarters.  A  few  lines  from  a  short  poem, 
published  anonymously  at  the  time,  may  serve  to  show  the 
state  of  feeling  which  was  beginning  to  prevail : — 

"  I  heard,  on  the  side  of  a  lonely  hill, 

The  Free  Kirk  preacher's  wrestling  prayer  ; 
Blue  mist,  brown  muir,  and  a  tinkling  rill, 

God's  only  house  and  music  there. 
And  aged  men,  in  mauds  of  gray, 
Bare-headed  stood  to  hear  and  pray. 

*■)(•*** 
Is  it  to  pomp  and  splendour  given 

Alone  to  reach  the  throne  on  high  ? 
The  hill-side  prayer  may  come  to  heaven 

From  plaided  breast  and  up-cast  eye. 

*  *  *  *  -x- 

The  storm  is  out,  the  wind  is  up, 

God's  Israel  sit  in  mire  and  clay  ; 
Eain-drenched  we  take  the  sacred  cup, 

Shivering  with  cold  we  turn  to  pray." 

***** 

The  whole  situation,  in  short,  was  getting  painful  to  con- 
*  Witness,  16th  August,  1845,  quoted  by  Mr.  Duncan. 


444  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

template.  The  struggle  was  between  worldly  wealth  and  power 
on  the  one  side,  and  patience  and  faith  on  the  other.  The 
Duke  has  determined  that  no  Free  Church  shall  be  allowed;  the 
people  have  determined  that  to  the  Free  Church  they  must  and 
shall  adhere.-  Through  the  exposure  of  summer  and  the  storms 
of  winter,  the  struggle  went  on ;  and  the  question  arose,  bow 
long  was  this  to  last?  Would  the  country  look  on  and  see  these 
humble  workmen  overborne  ?  or  would  the  Duke  do  justice  to 
his  own  better  feelings,  and  allow  his  dependents  to  follow  their 
sense  of  religious  duty  in  the  worship  of  God? 

At  last  some  concession  was  made.  They  were  looking  with 
dismay  to  the  approach  of  the  sixth  winter,  when  a  Free  Church 
minister,  who  had  some  connection  with  the  district,  unexpectedly 
came  to  the  rescue.  The  Rev.  Lewis  Irving,  of  Falkirk,  wrote 
the  Duke,  saying  that  he  felt  a  personal  interest  in  Wanlock- 
head,  from  having,  in  his  youth,  lived  much  in  that  neighbour- 
hood with  his  uncle,  Lord  Newton.  He  asked  permission  to 
put  up  a  wooden  erection,  which  might  give  some  shelter  from 
the  storms  of  the  coming  winter  ;  representing  that  this  might 
be  allowed,  while  the  question  of  a  permanent  site  was  left  in 
abeyance. 

Of  this  letter  no  notice  was  taken,  but,  assuming  that  silence 
might  mean  consent,  Mr.  Irving  went  forward  and  put  the 
matter  to  the  proof.  Subscriptions  were  raised,  wood  was 
bought  and  prepared  in  Edinburgh.  Along  with  a  band  of 
workmen,  it  was  forwarded  by  railway  to  Abington,  carted  over  the 
hills,  and  the  work  was  at  once  commenced.  For  about  a  week 
no  opposition  was  offered ;  but  just  as  the  side  walls  were 
finished,  the  manager  of  the  mines  took  alarm  at  the  responsi- 
bility he  was  incurring,  and  the  proceedings  were  stopped. 
Meantime  Mr.  Irving  was  on  his  way  to  preach  the  opening 
sermon  on  the  second  Sabbath  of  October,  and,  notwithstand- 
ing the  arrest  which  had  been  laid  on  the  work,  he  went  on 
with  the  service,  the  congregation  being  glad  to  find  themselves 
under  the  protection  of  the  side  walls  and  within  the  roofless 
shelter. 

Then  another  favourable  symptom  appeared.  A  well-known 
Edinburgh  lawyer,  the  Duke's  agent,  wrote  to  suggest  that  the 


REFUSAL  OF  SITES.  445 

people  should  send  in  another  petition.  It  might  have  been 
thought  that  they  had  been  suppliants  often  enough,  but  they 
were  in  no  mood  to  hesitate.  An  earnest  application  was  made 
by  the  elders  and  people,  and  in  due  time  permission  was  given 
to  roof  in  the  Wooden  Church,  the  agent,  at  the  same  time, 
in  name  of  the  Duke,  expressing  his  regret  that  any  misunder- 
standing or  disagreement  should  have  occurred,  and  ascribing 
it  to  the  interference  of  others.  The  wooden  erection  accordingly 
was  finished,  and  on  Sabbath,  the  10th  of  December,  the  con- 
gregation sat  down  to  the  Lord's  Supper,  with  a  wooden  cover 
to  shelter  them  from  the  inclemency  of  the  climate. 

In  all  this  there  is  one  point  on  which  justice  must  be  done  to 
the  honourable  conduct  of  the  Duke  of  Buccleuch.  In  other 
parts  of  the  country,  we  have  seen  how  the  adherents  of  the  Free 
Church  lost  their  situations,  and  were  deprived  of  their  means  of 
support ;  but,  in  this  respect,  his  Grace  acted  as  became  his  well- 
known  character.  At  the  collieries  of  Canonbie  and  the  mines  of 
Wanlockhead,  all  the  workmen  were  in  his  employment,  but  not 
even  when  the  controversy  was  at  the  hottest  was  any  one  inter- 
fered with  for  his  religious  opinions.  Many  of  those  who  held 
the  most  responsible  situations  were  leading  members  of  the 
Free  Church,  but,  except  in  the  matter  of  granting  a  site,  the 
treatment  which  they  received  at  the  hands  of  the  Duke  was 
uniformly  fair  and  kind,*  and  the  time  ultimately  came  when 
sites  for  church  and  manse  were  given. 

Having  now  seen  the  hardships  to  which  so  many  congrega- 
tions were  subjected,  one  is  led  naturally  to  ask  what  effect  this 
exposure  had  on  the  health  of  the  people.  When  Dr.  Guthrie 
described  to  the  Committee  his  preaching  at  Wanlockhead  in 
the  open  air,  amidst  the  piercing  winds  and  cold  showers  of 
April,  they  asked  him  whether  that  would  be  injurious  to 
health,  and  he  replied,  '  more  Scottico' — "  how  could  it  be  other- 
wise ?"+  When  Mr.  MacLeod  told  them  of  his  addressing  the 
people  at  Uig  amidst  that  heavy  snowfall  already  referred  to,  a 
member  of  the  Committee  asked,  with  much  naivete,  Did 
he  think  it  desirable  for  the  health  of  the  people  that  a  church 
should  be  erected  ?     And  yet  there  ajjjDears  little  desire  on  the 

*  Eeport  on  Sites,  i.  qq.  706-71'2.  t  Ibid.  i.  p.  73,  q.  1107. 


446  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

part  of  the  hearers  to  make  much  of  their  hardships.  On  the 
day  when  Mr.  Shepherd,  of  Kingussie,  preached  at  Duthil,  we 
saw  how  pulpit,  precentor's  desk,  and  seats  had  to  be  cleared  of 
snow  before  the  service  could  go  on.  Mr.  MacGregor,  one  of  the 
audience  present  on  a  similar  occasion,  must  have  had  a  good, 
■  Strong  Highland  constitution.  When  asked  by  the  Committee 
whether  his  health  had  sujBfered,  "  1  can  hardly  say,"  he  replied, 
"  that  I  suflFered,  but  I  was  that  cold  that  I  could  hardly  stand." 
There  were  others,  however,  who  were  not  equally  fortunate  on 
such  occasions.  A  medical  man  in  Argyllshire,  Dr.  Aldcorn, 
of  Oban,  was  well  acquainted  with  the  surrounding  districts. 
While  visiting  among  his  patients  in  Strontian  and  Torosay,  he 
had  met  with  cases  where  the  people  ascribed  their  illness  to 
worshipping  in  the  open  air  during  inclement  weather.  "  I  my- 
self caught  one  of  the  most  sudden  and  severe  illnesses  I  ever 
had  in  my  life  from  attending  public  worship  in  the  open  air  in 
Strontian  on  a  cold  evening,  and  several  other  persons  were 
taken  ill  the  day  after."  * 

Similar  testimony  is  borne  by  Dr.  Orchard,  a  medical  prac- 
titioner in  Grantown,  Strathspey.  In  the  course  of  his  practice 
he  had  met  with  many  cases  (at  least  fifty)  in  which,  as  a 
medical  man,  he  ascribed  their  illnesses  to  exposure  to  the 
inclemency  of  the  weather  at  open-air  meetings.  They  suffered, 
and  in  some  cases  died,  of  various  diseases — bronchitis,  inflam- 
mation, rheumatism,  spitting  of  blood,  and  similar  ailments.-f* 

Sometimes  the  trial  fell  heavily  on  the  minister.  "What 
did  they  think,"  Mr.  Garment  of  Eosskeen  asked  in  the  General 
Assembly,  "  of  an  old  man  like  him  having  to  preach  the  Gospel 
amidst  rain,  and  hail,  and  snow,  exposed  to  the  pelting  of  the 
storm  and  the  winter  blast,  as  he  had  often  been  ?"  But  there 
were  some  of  the  younger  ministers  who  suffered  even  more 
severely.  "  I  have  a  painful  recollection,"  Dr.  Elder  states  of 
one  case  in  Argyllshire,  "  where  I  addressed  a  large  congrega- 
tion on  a  stormy  evening  under  a  canvas  tent,  erected  be- 
cause of  difficulties  in  procuring  a  site.  The  minister  of  the 
parish  had  remained  in,  and  we  had  planted  a  young  minister 
there  on  the  call  of  the  peojole,  who,  after  prosecuting  his  work 

*  Keport  on  Sites,  iii.  q.  4987.  t  Ibid.  iii.  p.  82,  q.  5743  seq. 


EEFUSAL  OF  SITES.  447 

for  a  short  time  with  gieat  zeal,  and  under  great  difficulties, 
fell  into  bad  health  and  died,  the  result  unquestionably  of  his 
exposure  in  that  tent  to  the  storms  of  winter,  and  of  the  other 
discomforts  to  which  he  was  subjected."  * 

In  the  same  way  the  young  minister  of  Canonbie  was  cut 
down.-|-  At  the  time  he  was  inducted  the  only  church  was  that 
poor  canvas  tent,  standing  on  sufferance,  and  affording  but 
slight  protection  at  the  best.  When  examined  before  the  Com- 
mittee, he  told  how  in  winter  he  had  seen  the  rain  freely  per- 
colating through  the  canvas,  and  falling  on  the  heads  of  the 
worshippers.  "  I  often  saw  tlie  seats  thoroughly  wet,  as  if  they 
had  been  dragged  through  the  river.  I  saw  the  floor  often  a 
puddle  of  mud."  :|: 

The  remarkable  thing  was  that,  in  the  face  of  this,  the  con- 
gregation went  on  increasing.  In  1843  Dr.  Gordon  dispensed 
the  communion  to  120  members ;  in  1847  Mr.  Innes  com- 
puted the  congregation,  including  the  children,  from  500  to  600 
persons.  But  though  the  people  were  able  to  endure  such 
hardships,  they  were  too  much  for  the  young  pastor.  It  was 
not  long  till  symptoms  of  consumption  appeared.  The  disease 
rapidly  ran  its  course,  and  he  sank  into  an  early  grave. 

It  was  computed  that  the  Free  Church  population  subjected 
to  these  hardships  by  the  refusal  of  sites  amounted  to  about 
16,000  persons.  "  I  state  it  as  a  fact,"  Mr.  Graham  Spiers 
said,  "  respecting  which  there  can  be  no  dispute,  that  in  more 
than  one  of  these  congregations  members  have  been  hurried 
to  a  premature  grave  by  their  exposure  to  the  weather."  § 
They  were  in  many  cases  the  excellent  of  the  earth,  who,  in 
faithful  adherence  to  what  they  held  to  be  the  truth  of  God, 
laid  down  their  lives. 

Meantime  we  have  seen  the  patience  with  which  all  this  was 
endured  by  the  people.  The  question  at  issue  was  one  on 
which  their  feelings  were  keenly  excited.  They  saw  their 
neighbours  and  friends,  through  the  effect  of  site-refusing,  laid 
on"  a  sick-bed  or  carried  to  the  grave  ;  but  though  they  felt  the 
wrong  they  were  orderly  and  law-abiding,  and  they  bore  it  in 

*  Disr.  Mss.  Ixxi.  p.  14.  f  Report  on  Sites,  i.  87,  q.  1287  seq. 

I  Ibid.  §  Blue  Book,  1847,  p.  232. 


448  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

patience,  waiting  for  better  times.  Only  in  one  locality — as  if 
it  required  an  exception  to  prove  the  rule — was  there  a  slight 
outbreak. 

In  the  parish  of  Eesolis,  near  Cromarty,  a  minister  was  about 
to  be  settled  as  successor  to  Mr.  Sage,  who  had  "gone  out." 
Almost  the  whole  parishioners  having  joined  the  Free  Church, 
the  presentee  was  to  "get  the  cure  of  souls  with  hardly  a  soul 
to  cure,"  and  would  have  nothing  to  do  but  consume  the  living 
which  the  State  had  provided  for  the  good  of  the  people. 
Besides,  as  Mr.  Macculloch  states,  there  was  not  in  the  parish  a 
single  proprietor  who  was  not  a  site-refuser,  the  respectful  peti- 
tions of  the  people  having  been  rejected,  and  in  some  cases  "  the 
petitioners  themselves  repulsed  with  contumely  and  scorn," 

Unfortunately,  some  of  the  younger  men  resolved  to  take 
their  own  way  of  opposing  the  settlement  of  "  the  Intrusionist 
from  Sutherlandshire,"  and  when  the  clergymen  and  heritors 
met  at  the  church,  they  found  a  band  of  lads  with  some  women 
prepared  to  resist  their  entrance.  The  authorities,  however,  had 
got  previous  warning,  and  a  detachment  of  soldiers  had  been 
marched  over  from  Fort  George.  Mr.  Macculloch  remembers 
"  well  to  this  hour  (1877)  the  sensation  caused  by  the  sight 
of  the  red-coats,  and  the  sound  of  their  measured  tread  as 
they  passed  down  the  quiet  street  of  a  small  town  which  lay 
in  their  line  of  march,  with  their  commanding  officer  at  their 
head." 

Arrived  at  the  church,  they  found  a  mob  prepared  to  bar  all 
access.  There  were  cries  of  defiance,  and  some  stones  were 
thrown,  certain  obnoxious  "  moderate  lairds  "  receiving  more 
than  their  own  share  of  attention.  The  order  was  then  given  to 
fire,  which  was  done  with  blank  cartridge — the  only  effect  being 
to  exasperate  the  people.  In  the  midst  of  the  turmoil,  the 
reverend  "  presentee  whom  they  came  to  induct  was  the  first — as 
was  reported  in  the  newspapers  of  the  day — to  call  on  the  mili- 
tary to  do  their  duty,  and  load  with  ball.  This  was  accordingly 
done,  but  whether  the  shots  were  purposely  fired  in  the  air,  as 
we  shall  charitably  hope,  or  only  missed  their  aim,  the  result  was 
that  nobody  was  either  killed  or  seriously  wounded."  Of  course, 
the  people  had  to  give  way,  and  the  presentee  was  installed ;  but 


REFUSAL  OF  SITES.  449 

his  word  that  day  procured  for  him  a  sobriquet  which  stuck  to 
him ;  through  the  whole  district  he  was  popularly  known  as  the 
"  Rev.  Ball-cartridge."  * 

The  crowd,  however,  at  the  church  door  lost  some  of  their 
number.  Among  others  a  woman,  guilty  of  "  cheering  on  the 
mob,"  was  captured,  and  carried  to  Cromarty  in  a  gig,  and  there 
lodged  in  jail.  "  That  evening  a  party  of  Resolis  men  entered  the 
town  of  Cromarty,  marched  through  the  streets,  and  halted  in 
front  of  the  jail.  They  had  come,  they  said,  to  bail  out  the  woman. 
They  remained  for  two  full  hours  urging  on  the  authorities  to 
accept  their  bail,  and  release  the  woman.  Finding  that  their 
bail  was  not  to  be  accepted,  they  rushed  upon  the  prison,  broke 
in  the  doors,  set  the  woman  free,  and  bore  her  back  in  triumph 
to  Resolis.  A  detachment  of  them,  in  investing  the  jail,  had  to 
make  their  way  through  the  flower-garden  of  a  lady  in  the 
neighbourhood.  She  was  looking  at  them  in  extreme  anxiety, 
well  aware  of  the  mischief  into  which  they  were  running  them- 
selves ;  but  mistaking  the  cause  of  her  anxiety,  they  imagined 
that  she  was  merely  alarmed  for  her  flowers,  "  Ah  !  lady,"  they 
said,  as  they  carefully  threaded  the  narrow  walks,  "  dinna  be 
feart  for  the  floors  ;  we  winna  tramp  ane  o'  them  ; "  and  they 
kept  their  word.  Such  were  the  Ross-shire  rioters.  Surely 
never  were  more  gentle-hearted  men  forced  into  collision  with 
the  law."  i" 

*  Disr.  Mss.  Ixxx.  p.  5.  +  Life  of  Dr.  Cunningham,  p.  193. 


20 


450  AJ^NALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 


XXXII.  Feiends. 

Feom  the  difficulties  and  trials  thus  far  described  we  gladly 
turn  to  the  friends  who  came  to  the  help  of  the  Church  in  her 
time  of  need.  Among  the  leading  Scottish  Churchmen  of  that 
day,  there  were  many  zealous  supporters  of  evangelical  religion, 
and,  for  the  most  part,  they  joined  the  Free  Church  in  1843,  while 
among  the  humbler  classes  there  were  thousands  to  whom,  in  their 
own  sphere,  the  cause  was  not  less  deeply  indebted.  To  many 
of  these  we  have  already  referred ;  but  in  the  Disruption  Mss. 
there  are  additional  instances,  some  of  which  may  here  be 
given. 

It  was  among  the  handloom  operative  weavers  of  Kilsyth, 
for  example,  that  Dr.  Burns  found  many  of  his  most  efficient 
supporters.  "  Some  ministers  shrink  from  weavers  as  Eadical 
or  opinionative.  Among  the  best  friends  and  upholders  of  the 
hands  of  the  minister  here  have  been  the  men  of  this  class. 
They  are  the  most  pious  and  best  informed.  .  .  .  Well-read, 
sober,  and  regular  in  waiting  on  ordinances,  they  take  an  intel- 
ligent and  lively  interest  in  the  concerns  of  our  Church."* 

At  Flisk,  Mr.  Taylor  expresses  a  similar  estimate  of  the  farm- 
overseers  or  foremen  : — "  These  men  are  placed  above  their 
fellow-servants,  being  esteemed  trustworthy,  receiving  their 
masters'  orders  and  seeing  them  executed.  A  better  income  is 
connected  with  their  office.  They  are  the  best  representatives 
of  what  the  Scottish  peasantry  once  were.  Out  of  this  class 
we  have  received  many  of  our  best  adherents  among  the  agri- 
cultural population."  "  They  are  the  most  intelligent  and  best 
instructed  in  matters  of  religion."  'f' 

Thus  it  was  all  over  Scotland.  Among  multitudes  of  the 
*  DLsr.  j\Is.s.  xxix.  pp.  19  seq.  t   Ibid,  xxxvii.^  p.  13. 


FRIENDS.  451 

common  people  there  was  a  spirit  of  intelligence  abroad,  and  of 
determination  which  would  shrink  from  no  difficulties,  some- 
times showing  itself  in  stern  endurance,  as  among  the  miners  of 
Wanlockhead,  but  more  frequently  in  their  self-sacrificing  con- 
tributions. "  It  was  wonderful,"  says  Dr.  Elder,  "  how  the  Lord 
opened  the  hearts  and  hands  of  our  people.  One  servant-girl, 
a  member  of  my  congregation,  gave  £5  to  the  Building  Fund, 
and  subscribed  £2  a-year  to  the  Sustentation  Fund."*  Such 
examples  it  is  needless  to  multiply.  There  was  hardly  a  parish 
in  all  the  land  where  the  common  people  did  not  signalise  their 
devotedness  by  acts  of  self-denial  and  sacrifice  which  well 
deserve  to  be  held  in  remembrance. 

One  striking  circumstance  was  the  way  in  which  men  were 
raised  up  to  meet  special  cases  of  need.  Wherever  difficulties 
arose,  no  matter  how  remote  or  obscure  the  locality,  some  one 
was  sure  to  stand  forward,  round  whom  the  people  rallied  as 
their  natural  leader ;  and  it  is  pleasant  to  observe  how,  in  after 
days,  ministers  loved  to  speak  of  the  important  help  thus  given. 

In  enumerating  the  causes  of  encouragement,  "  It  would  ill 
become  me,"  says  Mr.  Taylor,  "  to  overlook  the  great  comfort 
and  assistance  Mr.  Thomas  Morton,  farmer.  East  Flisk,  and  the 
only  elder  in  the  parish,  has  been  to  me.  He  was  forward  in 
planning  and  executing  all  that  our  altered  circumstances  had 
rendered  necessary,  sparing  neither  time  nor  pains." -f- 

At  Braemar,  "  It  was  the  complaint  of  the  parish  minister  that 
the  flower  of  the  congregation  had  left  the  Establishment.  .  .  . 
There  were  some,  too,  among  our  followers  whose  experience 
and  influence  were  of  great  service  to  us,  particularly  Charles 
Gumming,  Esq.,  factor  for  the  trustees  of  the  Earl  of  Fife, 
whose  adherence  I  cannot  but  regard  as  providential." :|:  The 
value  of  such  help,  however,  was  best  appreciated  in  those  cases 
where  the  opposition  was  most  formidable. 

Lochlee  is  well  known  to  the  readers  of  Dr.  Guthrie's  Life  as 
a  retired  parish  among  the  Grampians,  about  twenty  miles  from 
Brechin.  The  tenants,  being  without  leases,  were  at  the  mercy 
of  Lord  Pan  mure,  their  landlord,  and  were  formally  warned  that 

*  Disr.  Mss.  Ixxi.  p.  11.  t  Ibid,  xxxvii.  p.  13, 

t  Ibid.  Ixx.  p.  18. 


452  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

all  who  joined  the  Free  Church  would  be  evicted  at  the  first  term. 
In  the  midst  of  them  there  lived  a  son  of  their  former  minister,  Mr, 
Inglis,  tenant  fanner  of  Baillies,  whose  education  and  natural 
character  gave  him  an  ascendency  over  his  neighbours  ;  and  under 
his  leadership  the  people  quietly  took  their  own  way,  in  defiance 
-of  the  warning.  A  Mason  lodge  in  the  glen  was  the  only 
place  of  meeting  to  be  had ;  and  there,  in  connection  with  the 
Free  Church  (July,  1843),  one  hundred  and  eighty  communi- 
cants sat  down  at  the  Lord's  Supper,  including  "almost  all" 
the  tenants  over  whose  heads  the  threat  of  expulsion  was  hang- 
ing. Things  went  smoothly  for  a  time;  but  at  the  annual 
meeting  of  the  Mason  lodge  in  November,  an  attempt  was  made 
to  dispossess  the  congregation.  An  insidious  proposal  to  let 
the  place  to  the  highest  bidder  having  been  defeated,  one  of  the 
farmers  who  was  opposed  to  the  Free  Church  called  out,  "  I 
will  give  £10  yearly  rent  for  it  for  Lord  Panmure ;"  when  he 
was  met  by  two  or  three  voices  at  once  crying  out,  "  Is  Lord 
Panmure  to  preach  in  it  ?" — a  sufficiently  ludicrous  idea  to 
those  who  knew  his  Lordship ;  and  amidst  the  laughter  which 
followed,  the  whole  opposition  collapsed,  and  the  meeting-place 
was  secured  for  a  year. 

War  was  now  declared.  Mr.  Inglis  was  deprived  of  one  of 
his  farms,  and  in  an  interview  with  the  factor  was  told  that, 
unless  he  ceased  to  thwart  Lord  Panmure,  he  would  be  sum- 
moned out  of  Baillies  at  Whitsunday,  and  all  the  other  Free 
Churchmen  would  have  to  go.  He  said  something  about  con- 
science, but  was  "  sharply  told  to  pocket  his  conscience  if  it 
were  opposed  to  Lord  Panmure."  *  The  factor  ought  to  have 
known  better  the  man  with  whom  he  was  dealing. 

A  further  step  was  taken.  The  teacher  in  the  glen,  belong- 
ing to  the  "  Society  for  Propagating  Christian  Knowledge,"  was 
ill  and  dying ;  but  instead  of  letting  the  man  die  in  peace,  they 
moved  for  his  expulsion ;  and  the  sentence  of  dismissal  arrived 
from  Edinburgh  just  in  time  to  reach  his  dying  bed  on  the  day 
of  his  decease. 

Then  came  the  legal  summonses.     Farmers  were  to  lose  their 

*  Mr.  Inglis'  brother,  minister  of  the  Free  Church,  Edzell,  is  incKned 
to  think  this  must  have  been  a  slip  of  the  tontine,  hastily  uttered 


FRIENDS.  453 

farms,  and  about  eighty  persons  to  be  driven  from  the  Glen ; 
but  they  were  so  calm  and  resolute  in  their  attitude  of  deter- 
mination that  the  landlord  felt  it  would  not  do.  The  sum- 
monses were  never  enforced. 

The  Mason  lodge  was  next  assailed.  The  building  was  to  be 
resumed  by  the  proprietor,  and  both  the  members  of  the  lodge 
and  the  Free  Church  expelled.  Foreseeing  this  result,  Mr. 
Inglis  erected  on  his  farm  an  unusually  large  house  for  the 
accommodation  of  a  shepherd,  one  end  of  which  was  reserved 
for  the  man  and  his  family,  while  the  other  was  fitted  with  seats 
and  a  temporary  pulpit.  In  this  way  he  evaded  a  threatened 
interdict.  They  could  not  well  prevent  him  building  a  good 
house  for  his  servant,  nor  the  servant  from  fitting  up  one  end 
of  it  as  he  j^leased.  Lord  Panmure  at  last  confessed  that 
"  Baillies  had  outgeneralled  him,"  and  gave  up  the  contest.  In 
that  humble  building  the  congregation  met  till  the  accession  of 
the  second  Lord  Panmure,  the  Earl  of  Dalhousie,  brought  better 
times,  and  a  church  and  manse  were  provided.  On  the  death 
of  Mr.  Inglis,  in  1868,  a  local  newspaper  declared:  "  No  such 
man  has  died  in  the  Glen  or  in  any  of  the  surrounding  parishes 
for  many  a  long  year  and  day.  Though  a  resolute  Free  Church- 
man, Mr.  Inglis  never  limited  the  flow  of  his  kindness  and 
charity  to  denominational  channels.  Eeady  to  do  good  to  all,  he 
was  respected  and  esteemed  by  all,  ...  an  admirable  example 
of  how  a  man  should  live  so  as  to  be  missed  when  he  dies,"  * 

In  the  district  of  Kintyre,  Argyllshire,  the  leading  supporter 
of  the  Free  Church  was  Mr.  John  Walker,  teacher  of  a  school 
under  the  Society  for  Propagating  Christian  Knowledge.  The 
parish  of  Kilcalmonell,  where  he  taught,  had  at  one  time  dis- 
tinguished itself  in  connection  with  the  well-known  James 
Haldane,  who,  along  with  his  brother  Robert  Haldane,  had 
done  so  much  as  a  zealous  evangelist  in  Scotland.  At  the 
instance,  it  was  believed,  of  the  parish  minister,  Mr.  Haldane 
had  been  arrested  in  Kilcalmonell,  given  in  charge  to  the 
constables,  and  sent  a  prisoner  to  the  county  town  to  be 
tried   for  the   crime   of    preaching   the   Gospel   in  the   open 

*  Memorials  of  the  Disruption  in  Edzell  and  Lochlee,  by  the  Rev.  K. 
Inglis,  Edzell,  pp.  53-65. 


454  ANNALS  OP  THE  DISRUPTION. 

air.  In  1843  a  good  deal  of  the  same  spirit  seems  to  have 
survived  among  the  upper  classes.  The  use  of  any  house  or 
barn  had  been  interdicted.  "  For  two  winters,"  says  Mr. 
Walker,  "  we  worshipped  the  God  of  our  fathers  in  the  grave- 
yard of  Tarbert,  sitting  on  the  graves  of  our  forefathers  with 
only  a  canvas  tent  for  our  minister."  Afterwards  Mr.  Walker 
had  to  take  his  blankets  to  cover  the  tent  [pulpit],  putting  it  up 
every  Saturday  night  beside  the  public  road  under  the  shade  of 
a  wide-spreading  tree.  In  spite  of  dire  opposition,  he  continued 
to  give  accommodation  to  the  Free  Church  ministers,  "  so  that 
his  house  came  to  be  called  the  Non-Intrusion  inn." 

The  proprietor,  Mr.  Campbell  of  Stonefield,  "  whose  title,"  Mr. 
Walker  says,  "is  an  exponent  of  his  heart  towards  the  Free 
Church,"  refused  a  site,  and,  when  one  was  got  against  his  will, 
forbade  the  use  of  all  his  quarries.  The  spirit  of  the  people, 
however,  was  roused.  The  old  proverb  about  carrying  coals 
to  Newcastle  received  a  new  application — when  it  was  found 
they  had  to  bring  stones  to  Stonefield,  "  a  district  where  nineteen- 
twentieths  of  the  surface  is  rock."  It  had  to  be  done,  however. 
Building  stones  were  conveyed  in  boats  from  Cowal,  across  an 
arm  of  the  sea  thirteen  miles  wide,  and  under  the  care  of  Mr. 
Walker,  and  Mr.  John  M'Lauchlan,  postmaster,  the  Free  Church 
was  erected. 

But  further  troubles  were  in  store.  The  Society  for  Pro- 
pagating Christian  Knowledge  dismissed  Mr.  Walker  and  the 
other  teachers  who  joined  the  Free  Church.  Mrs.  Wallace,  a  poor 
widow,  who  taught  the  female  school,  "  had  her  furniture  laid  out 
on  the  public  road,  and  Mr.  Dugald  Sinclair,  the  factor,  came  to  my 
house  while  I  was  in  the  act  of  removing,  and  told  me  that  unless 
I  made  speedy  exit  he  would  treat  my  effects  in  the  same  way." 

Deprived  thus  of  his  situation,  Mr.  Walker  found  employment 
elsewhere,  and  went  at  last  across  the  Atlantic,  where  God 
prospered  him.  Writing  in  1879  from  his  home  in  Canada,  he 
says — "  I  have  sufifered  much  and  done  much  for  the  Free 
Church,  of  which  I  am  now  glad.  I  have  never  repented  it. 
The  time  of  the  struggle  was  the  happiest  part  of  my  life."* 

Ballantrae,  Ayrshire,  furnishes  a  favourable  example  of  those 
*  Disr.  Mss.  Ixxxiii. 


FPJENDS.  455 

cases  where,  amidst  opposition  of  a  milder  type,  friends  were 
raised  up  to  guide  congregations  in  remote  country  districts.  A 
former  minister — Mr.  Burns,  afterwards  of  Monkton  and  Dun- 
edin,  New  Zealand — nephew  of  the  great  Ayrshire  poet,  had 
imbued  the  people  with  the  love  of  Gospel  truth,  and  though  his 
successor  remained  in  the  Establishment,  they  in  large  numbers 
went  out,  having  at  their  head  Mr.  Lockhart,  farmer  at  Laggan. 

The  proprietor,  the  Earl  of  Stair,  refused  a  site ;  but  the 
people  got  from  Mr.  Aitken,  one  of  the  tenants,  permission  to 
meet  in  Collingmill  Glen,  a  beautiful  and  picturesque  spot  not 
far  from  the  village.  "  Some  are  still  alive  who  recall  the  happy 
solemn  Sabbath  services  held  there  during  the  summer  of  1843, 
and  dwell  with  special  delight  on  the  first  communion,  when 
Mr.  Burns,  their  former  pastor,  presided.  The  loveliness  of  the 
day,  the  stillness  of  the  scene,  and  the  solemn  impressiveness  of 
the  service  are  held  in  vivid  remembrance." 

At  the  approach  of  winter,  they  retired  to  the  school-house 
of  Garleffin  ;  but  the  great  object  was  to  get  as  soon  as  possible 
permanent  accommodation. 

"  It  had  come  to  the  knowledge  of  Mr.  Lockhart  that  certain 
properties  in  the  village — including  an  old  inn,  with  stables  and 
garden — were  to  be  sold  by  private  bargain.  There  was  no 
time  to  lose.  Consultation  with  others  might  be  dangerous. 
The  sale  was  to  take  place  at  Stranraer,  seventeen  miles  from 
Ballantrae.  Mr.  Lockhart  said  nothing — rose  early  in  the 
morning — reached  Stranraer  by  business  hours,  and,  taking  all 
risks,  purchased  the  property  in  his  own  name. 

"  Glad  at  heart,  and  grateful  to  God  for  enabling  him  to  secure 
ground  for  the  church  he  loved,  he  turned  homewards,  and 
having  got  about  half-way,  was  ascending  the  wild  romantic 
glen  of  App,  when  he  saw  approaching  from  the  opposite  direc- 
tion Mr.  White,  an  elder  of  the  Establishment.  The  two  elders 
— the  Free  and  the  Established  Church — met,  and,  curiously 
eyeing  each  other,  held  a  short  conversation : — 

"Mr.  Lockhart.  I  have  an  idea,  Mr.  White,  of  the  object  of 
your  journey,  and,  if  I  am  right,  you  need  go  no  further. 

"  Mr.  White.  How  can  you  know  my  business  ? 

"  Mr.  Lockhart.  My  impression  is,  that  you  are  on  your  way 


456  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 

to  purchase  the  old  inn.  I  have  bought  it  this  morning,  and 
mean  to  give  it  to  the  Free  Church  for  a  site. 

"  ilfr.  White.  Indeed  !  Well,  that  vt'as  my  object,  and,  as  you 
have  got  before  me,  I  will  turn,  and  we  will  go  home  together. 

"  The  site"  was  found  very  suitable,  and  it  was  not  long  till  one 
of  the  plain  churches  of  those  days  was  erected  on  it. 

"  But  a  manse  was  urgently  required,  and  as  the  old  inn  and 
its  garden  could  not  give  the  space  requii-ed,  Mr.  Lockhart 
resolved — notwithstanding  the  discouragement  of  a  former 
refusal — to  make  another  application  to  his  landlord,  the  Earl 
of  Stair.  Waiting  on  his  lordship,  he  was  kindly  received, 
stated  his  object,  and  met  at  once  with  a  frank  reply — '  I  con- 
sidered a  second  minister  at  Ballantrae  a  manifest  surplusage, 
and  wished  to  prevent  it ;  but  you  have  got  a  minister  and  church 
in  spite  of  me,  and  there  is  no  use  refusing  you  a  manse — where 
do  you  wish  to  build  ? '  Mr.  Lockhart,  doubtless,  like  Nehe- 
miah  of  old,  praying  in  heart  to  the  God  of  heaven,  said,  '  The 
field  next  the  old  inn  would  suit.'  It  was  the  best  site  in 
Ballantrae,  and  near  the  church.  '  You  shall  have  it,'  replied 
the  Earl,  and  again  Mr.  Lockhart  returned  home  blessing  God 
for  having  prospered  him  in  his  efforts."* 

In  after  days  when  a  new  church  was  required,  it  is  interest- 
ing to  observe  the  cordial  goodwill  with  which  the  movement  was 
welcomed  by  all  classes  in  the  parish.  The  best  site  in  the  place 
was  alongside  of  the  manse,  and  it  was  most  handsomely  given 
at  a  nominal  feu-duty  by  the  present  Earl  of  Stair,  who  had  suc- 
ceeded his  uncle.  A  plan  was  prepared  by  Messrs.  Barclay,  archi- 
tects, Glasgow.  Every  heritor  in  the  parish  subscribed  toward 
the  building,  the  lowest  of  these  subscriptions  being  £10,  the 
highest  £50,  the  aggregate  £200.  The  congregation,  the  entire 
community  of  the  parish,  and  also  friends  at  a  distance,  all  gave 
liberally.  The  foundation  stone  was  laid  by  the  late  Lord  Ard- 
millan  amid  a  large  concourse  of  the  inhabitants.  The  church 
cost  £1013,  and  was  opened  by  the  Kev.  Sir  Henry  Moncreiff. 
With  the  broad  Atlantic  in  front,  the  manse  with  spacious 
lawn  on  the  north,  the  noble  river  Stinchar  on  the  south,  a  bold 
hill  crowned  by  the  ruins  of  the  grand  old  castle  of  At  dstinchar 
*  Disr.  Mss.  Ixxxi. 


FRIENDS.  457 

behind — the  Free  Church  is  the  finest  architectural  ornament 
of  Ballantrae,  and  is  all  the  more  pleasing  that  it  is  entirely  free 
of  debt."  * 

There  were  parishes  in  which  relief  came  in  a  remarkable 
way,  through  the  sale  of  estates  and  the  transference  of  the 
land  from  hostile  to  friendly  hands.  At  Ochiltree,  Ayrshire, 
the  proprietors  were  almost  all  adverse ;  but  a  change  took 
place,  and  the  new  landlords  seem  to  have  vied  with  each  other 
in  their  acts  of  kindness  to  the  Free  Church.  An  eligible  site 
on  a  nominal  feu-duty  was  given  by  Mr.  Bryden ;  a  temporary 
place  of  worship  was  provided,  rent  free,  by  Mr.  Cuthbert; 
while  Mr.  Ross  of  Lesnessock  gave  in  perpetuity  two  acres 
of  the  best  land  in  the  parish  as  a  glebe  for  one  shilling  a 
year.-f- 

At  Braco,  Perthshire,  no  site  could  be  got  on  the  property 
where  the  people  chiefly  reside,  but  in  the  summer  of  the  Dis- 
ruption the  estate  was  bought  by  G.  D.  Stewart,  Esq.,  and  Mr. 
Grant  states  he  "  not  only  granted  sites  to  our  heart's  desire, 
but  he  also  gave  his  cordial  sympathy.  While  we  worshipped 
in  the  open  air  in  the  midst  of  winter,  he  stood  among  my 
people — for  there  were  no  seats — during  Divine  service.  He 
gave  his  money,  his  wood,  his  counsel,  his  influence,  in  support 
of  our  sacred  cause,  and  his  acts  of  personal  kindness  to  myself 
were  incessant.  When  I  first  waited  on  him,  after  he  came  to 
the  property,  and  made  him  acquainted  with  our  circumstances, 
he  said,  '  I  knew  that  God  did  not  send  me  here  in  vain.'  The 
remark  has  been  fully  verified."  | 

It  is  right  that  the  zealous  aid  given  by  many  of  the  female 
friends  of  the  Free  Church  should  not  be  forgotten. 

At  Kilwinning,  Ayrshire,  it  was  a  devoted  Christian  lady, 
Miss  Donald  of  Glenbervie,  who  originated  the  movement. 
When,  at  her  request.  Dr.  Landsborough  opened  the  services 
(15th  June,  1848),  she  warned  him  to  expect  only  from  12  to 
15  hearers.  The  actual  attendance  was  50.  An  old  Baptist 
chapel  was  rented,  which  soon  got  overcrowded.  Ninety-nine 
members  joined  at  the  first  communion.  Miss  Donald  purchased 
a  site  for  a  church.     A  promising  young  preacher  was  called  and 

*  Disr.  Mss.  l.xxxi.  t  Ihiil  xxxvi.  p.  4.  X  J^bid.  xiii.  p.  8. 


458  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

ordained,  and  they  soon  had  a  congregation  of  170  members, 
with  a  church  seated  to  hold  450  sitters,  free  of  debt. 

In  this  connection  the  writer  may  be  allowed  to  record  one 
personal  reminiscence  of  a  call  which  he  made  by  invitation,  in 
the  summer  of  1843,  at  Langton  House,  where  the  Dowager 
Marchioness  of  Breadalbane  and  Lady  Hannah  Tharp  then 
resided.  Much  was  said  about  the  Free  Church  and  her  pro- 
spects, and  many  inquiries  as  to  the  circumstances  of  his  parish 
at  Kinneff,  and,  when  he  rose  to  leave,  they  put  into  his  hands, 
with  a  few  kind  words,  the  sum  of  £150  to  aid  in  providing  a 
manse.  It  was  in  this  quiet  way  that  many  a  generous  act  was 
done,  of  which  little  mention  was  made  beyond  the  congrega- 
tions and  ministers  immediately  benefited. 

In  the  Disruption  Mss.  we  find  the  name  of  another  friend — 
the  Countess  of  Effingham — whose  delight  it  seems  to  have 
been  to  aid  our  struggling  congregations.  At  Kilsyth,  Dr. 
Burns  mentions  that  her  attention  had  been  "providentially 
directed  to  this  poor  place,"  and  she  assisted  "  so  largely  and 
substantially  as  to  leave  no  residuum  of  debt,  without  aid  from 
the  central  fund  ;  besides  giving  pulpit  cloth,"  &c.* 

Again,  at  Unst,  the  most  northerly  parish  in  the  Shetland 
islands,  we  find  her  doing  similar  work.  Before  the  Disruption, 
the  venerable  Dr.  Ingram  had  much  opposition  to  contend  with. 
In  the  spring  of  1843,  one  of  those  formidable  documents — 
an  interdict — was  obtained  by  the  leading  heritor,  prohibiting 
him  from  holding  a  meeting  in  the  church.  It  now  lies  before 
us  duly  written  and  signed  in  legal  form,  but  pale  and  dingy 
with  the  lapse  of  years.  In  proper  time  it  left  Lerwick,  in  1843, 
on  its  way  to  Dr.  Ingram,  but  among  the  winds  and  currents  of 
those  northern  seas  its  progress  had  not  been  propitious. 
Before  Unst  could  be  reached  the  meeting  had  been  held,  the 
speeches  delivered,  and  the  congregation  had  pledged  themselves 
to  leave  the  Establishment — a  pledge  which  was  amply  fulfilled, 
when  out  of  1100  communicants  1000  joined  the  Free  Church. 
It  turned  out  that  two  churches  were  required,  owing  to  the 
position  of  the  population  in  different  parts  of  the  island.  The 
difficulty  would  have  been  great,  but  it  was  met  by  one  of  these 
*  Disr.  Mss.  xxix.  p.  15. 


FRIENDS.  459 

churcheb— chat  at  Uyasound. — being  "erected  chiefly  by  the 
liberality  of  the  Countess  of  Effingham,  who  was  led,  through 
Dr.  Chalmers,  to  take  a  warm  interest  in  the  religious  condition 
of  this  remote  island — the  Ultima  Thule  of  Scotland."  It  may 
be  added  that,  at  the  opening  of  the  other  church,  in  November, 
1843,  a  striking  incident  took  place.  The  tent  under  cover  of 
which  the  congregation  had  worshipped,  during  summer  and 
autumn,  was  carried  away  by  a  furious  tempest  on  the  very  day 
when  for  the  first  time  the  people  entered  their  new  church.* 

It  is  difficult  for  the  younger  generation  to  understand  what 
the  Free  Church  of  1843  owed  to  that  noble  band  of  influential 
laymen  who  stood  forward  in  her  support,  and  to  whom  we 
have  already  referred. 

Nowhere  was  the  revival  of  evangelical  religion  more  maiked 
than  among  the  upper  circles  of  Edinburgh  society.  Dr. 
Erskine,  Sir  H.  Moncreiff",  and  Dr.  Jones  had  done  much  during 
the  former  generation,  but  it  was  when  Dr.  Andrew  Thomson 
appeared  in  St.  George's  and  was  joined  by  Dr.  Gordon  and 
other  men  of  similar  power  in  the  Edinburgh  pulpits,  and  by 
Dr.  Chalmers  and  Dr.  Welsh  in  the  Professors'  chairs,  that  the 
array  of  intellect  and  genius  on  the  side  of  Gospel  truth  made 
its  influence  felt  through  all  classes  of  the  community.  The 
general  feeling  changed.  A  series  of  sermons  by  Dr.  Thomson 
on  the  evils  of  the  stage  had  such  eSect  that  the  Edinburgh 
theatre  was  almost  deserted.  Many  of  the  leading  lawyers, 
physicians,  bankers,  and  merchants  were  earnest  Christian  men, 
keeping  up  family  worship  regularly  in  their  houses,  and 
devoting  themselves  to  Christian  work  in  the  diff'erent  congre- 
gations with  which  they  were  connected.  This  was  the  class 
who  instinctively,  in  the  great  majority  of  cases,  rallied  round 
the  Free  Church  in  her  contendings. 

What  admirable  men  these  Edinburgh  laymen  were  as  a 
class,  all  Scotland  knew.  Of  two  of  their  number  full  bio- 
graphies have  been  published,  that  of  Mr.  Robert  Paul,  Banker, 
by  Dr.  Benjamin  Bell,  and  that  of  James  Wilson,  Esq.  of 
Woodville,  by  Dr.  James  Hamilton.  There  are  also  in  the 
"Disruption  Worthies"  sketches  of  the  lives  of  Alexander 
*  Parker  Mss.,  Ingram  of  Unst. 


460  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

Murray  Dunlop,  M.P. ;  Graham  Spiers,  Sheriff  of  Mid-Lothian  ; 
John  Maitland,  Auditor  of  the  Court  of  Session ;  Alexander 
Earle  Monteith,  Sheriff  of  Fife ;  John  Hamilton,  Advocate  ; 
James  Crawfurd,  W.S. ;  and  James  Bonar,  W.S.  And  others 
there  were  not  less  distinguished  :  men  like  Lord  Ardmillan  and 
Lord  Cowan  among  the  Judges  of  the  Court  of  Session ;  lawyers 
like  J.  G.  Wood,  W.S.,  Sheriff  Jameson,  and  Sheriff  Cleghorn ; 
eminent  physicians  like  Dr.  Abercromby,  Dr.  James  Wood,  Sir 
James  Y.  Simpson,  and  Professor  Miller,  in  whose  case  the  Dis- 
ruption formed  the  great  turning-point  of  his  religious  history, 
and  whose  gift  of  ready  eloquence  was  always  at  the  service  of 
every  good  cause  ;  these,  and  many  other  influential  supporters 
who  might  be  named,  gave  to  the  Free  Church  an  importance 
which  even  the  men  of  the  world  could  not  fail  to  recognise. 

Alexander  Dunlop,  advocate — afterwards  M.P.  for  Greenock 
— deserves  special  notice.  More  than  any  other  layman  he  was 
prominent  in  the  midst  of  the  Disruption  conflict,  arguing  the 
case,  guiding  the  counsels  of  the  evangelical  party,  and  shaping 
the  course  of  the  movement.  Sacrificing  his  prospects  at  the 
bar,  where  he  had.  given  high  promise  of  distinguished  success, 
he  threw  himself  into  the  struggle  for  what  he  felt  to  be  the 
cause  of  God,  upholding  it  with  all  the  resources  of  his  great 
legal  learning  and  powerful  reasoning.  It  was  to  him  men 
looked  for  the  drawing  up  of  those  documents  in  which  the 
claims  of  the  Free  Church  were  embodied.  It  was  he  who 
arranged  the  course  of  procedure  on  the  Disruption  day,  and 
ever  afterwards,  as  her  legal  adviser,  he  gave  himself  heart  and 
soul  to  the  advancement  of  the  Church  in  all  her  interests. 

Another  champion  of  the  cause  must  also  be  specially  re- 
ferred to — Hugh  Miller,  editor  of  the  Witness.  The  story  of  his 
life  is  as  a  household  word  in  many  districts  of  Scotland.  The 
orphan  child  whose  father  was  lost  at  sea — the  stone  mason — 
the  banker's  clerk — the  man  of  science — the  editor,  his  whole 
career  at  every  step  brought  out  the  rare  mental  gifts  of  a  man 
destined  powerfully  to  influence  the  generation  in  which  he 
lived.  In  the  midst  of  the  ten  years'  conflict,  the  thrilling 
appeals  of  his  pamphlets  and  newspaper  articles  went  all  over 
Scotland,  and  stirred  the  hearts  of  his  countrymen.     Arguments 


HUGH  Mir.LKR. 


FRIENDS.  461 

which  in  other  hands  were  dry  and  abstruse,  were  translated  by 
him  into  a  style  of  English  so  pure,  and  presented  in  forms  so 
powerfully  attractive,  that  they  came  home  at  once  to  the  feelings 
of  the  people.  When  the  battle  for  Christ's  headship,  and  for 
the  liberties  of  the  people,  was  fought  and  won  in  the  country, 
it  was  Hugh  Miller  who  stood  in  the  front  of  the  conflict. 

In  Glasgow  the  support  of  the  laity  was  not  less  remarkable. 
There  now  Hes  before  us  a  list  of  the  office-bearers  of  a  single 
congregation,  St.  Enoch's,  which  includes  the  names  of  Henry 
Dunlop  of  Craigton,  Richard  Kidston,  John  Wright,  George  Lyon 
Walker,  James  Stevenson,  and  others  who  rallied  round  Dr. 
Henderson ;  and  if  to  these  were  added  the  kirk-sessions  of 
St.  George's,  St.  John's,  the  Tron,  St.  Matthew's,  and  other 
churches,  there  would  be  found  a  long  array  of  the  most  pro- 
minent citizens,  —  men  like  Dr.  Harry  Eainy,  Dr.  Charles 
Ritchie,  Nathaniel  Stevenson,  the  Messrs.  Blackie,  publishers, 
Allan  and  William  Buchanan,  James  Buchanan  of  Woodlands, 
Peter  Brown,  IslayBm-ns,  William  Towers  Clark,  William  Crichton, 
R.N.,  Allan  Cuthbertson,  John  Park  Fleming,  John  James  Muir, 
Matthew  Montgomerie  of  Kelvinside,  James  Playfair,  John  Wil- 
son, and  many  another  name  of  high  standing  in  the  community. 
Some  idea  of  what  they  were  may  be  formed  from  the  sketches 
of  two  of  their  number,  which  have  found  a  place  among 
"  The  Disruption  Worthies  " — William  Collins,  so  distinguished 
for  ardent  zeal  and  untiring  energy ;  and  William  Campbell, 
whose  splendid  liberalities  can  never  be  forgotten. 

And  as  in  Edinburgh  and  Glasgow,  so  in  Dundee,  Aberdeen, 
Paisley,  Greenock,  the  lay  friends  of  the  Church  stood  eagerly 
forward  in   her  support ;  indeed,  there  was  hardly  a  town  in " 
Scotland  where  some  of  the  leading  citizens  did  not  zealously 
uphold  the  cause. 

In  country  districts  we  have  also  gratefully  to  recall  the 
support  given  by  a  portion  of  the  landed  proprietors.  Three 
months  before  the  Disruption,  they  met  in  Edinburgh,  coming 
up  from  their  country  seats,  for  the  purpose  of  uniting  to  make 
known  their  views  to  the  Government  in  favour  of  the  Free 
Church.  The  list  of  seventy  names  included  men  of  the  highest 
consideration — the  Duke  of  Argyle,  the  Marquis  of  Breadalbane 


462  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

Sir  Andrew  Agnew,  Fox  Maule,  Sir  Patrick  Maxwell  of  Spring- 
kell,  Alexander  Campbell  of  Monzie,  Claude  Alexander  of  Bal- 
lochinyle,Heriot  of  Ramornie,  Captain  Christie  of  Durie,  Dickson 
of  Hartree,  Craigie  of  Glendoick,  and  others  who  were  either  pre- 
sent or  intimated  their  adherence  by  letter.  Of  this  honoured 
list  there  are  some — alas  !  very  few — who  remain  unto  this  day, 
but  most  have  fallen  asleep.  It  would  be  interesting  to  tell  what 
they  afterwards  did  for  the  cause  in  their  separate  localities,  but 
no  such  record  can  be  attempted  in  these  pages.  It  may  be 
enough  to  refer  the  reader  to  the  "  Disruption  Worthies,"  where 
sketches  are  given  of  George  Buchan  of  Kelloe,  James  Mait- 
land  Hog  of  Newliston,  Patrick  Boyle  Mure  Macredie  of  Perceton, 
Alexander  Campbell  of  Monzie,  Howieson  Crawfurd  of  Craw- 
furdland,  and  Fox  Maule,  afterwards  Earl  of  Dalhousie ;  and  to 
the  separate  memoirs  of  Maitland  Makgill  Crichton  by  Mr. 
Taylor  of  Flisk,  and  Alexander  Thomson  of  Banchory  by 
Professor  Smeaton. 

To  the  valuable  services  rendered  by  these  and  others  among 
our  country  gentlemen,  we  would  fain  pay  the  tribute  that  is 
due  ;  but  for  the  present  we  must  confine  ourselves  to  some  of 
the  brief  notices  found  in  the  Disruption  Mss. 

One  of  the  outstanding  supporters  in  the  North  was  Cluny 
Macpherson,  chief  of  the  clan,  who,  living  in  the  midst  of  his 
people  at  Cluny  Castle,  zealously  upheld  the  cause  of  the 
Church.  Besides  contributions  in  money,  he  gave  sites  for 
church  and  manse  free  of  charge,  with  garden,  pasture-ground, 
and  much  else  for  the  use  of  the  minister — all  bestowed  in  a 
spirit  of  generous  liberality.  He  has  all  along,  says  Mr.  Shaw 
of  Laggan,*  been  zealous  in  the  cause  of  temperance  and  of 
education  in  the  district.  In  passing  through  the  country  of 
the  Macphersons,  Dr.  Begg  was  glad  to  find  that  the  Free 
Church  was  attended  by  the  chief  of  the  clan.  "  I  had  the 
pleasure  of  preaching  to  him  when  he  appeared  in  full  costume, 
with  philabeg  and  with  all  the  other  accessories  of  the  High- 
land garb.  I  must  say  he  has  shown  both  good  sense  and  iiigh 
principle  in  joining  his  people  to  maintain  amongst  them  a 
Dure  and  free  Gospel  ministry." -f- 

"^  Disr.  Mss.  Ixxxvii.  t  Blue  Book,  1845,  p.  67. 


FRIENDS,  463 

In  the  Presbytery  of  Forfar  mention  is  made  of  G.  Lyon, 
Esq.  of  Glenogil,  an  heritor  in  the  parish  of  Tannadyce.  "At  a 
period,"  says  the  Rev.  D.  Fergusson,  "  when  few  of  the  gentry  of 
Forfarshire  or  representatives  of  old  county  families  manifested 
any  sympathy  with  the  Gospel,  Mr.  Lyon,  rising  above  the  pre- 
judices of  his  order,  devoted  his  youthful  energies  to  the  cause 
of  evangelical  truth.  When  the  testing  hour  came  in  1843,  he 
never  hesitated  as  to  his  course  of  action."  After  the  Disruption, 
he  gave  himself  largely  to  the  service  of  the  Church,  and  was  very 
helpful  in  establishing  and  organising  the  new  Free  Church  con- 
gregations within  the  bounds  of  the  Presbytery.  "  When  I 
presided  at  the  first  dispensation  of  the  Lord's  Supper  in  the 
congregation  of  Memus  of  Tannadice,  he  officiated  as  an  elder, 
and  helped  on  the  good  cause  with  characteristic  ardour.  Some 
months  later,  I  was  present  when  he  laid  the  foundation-stone  of 
the  Free  Church  in  South  Kirriemuir.  This  is  not  the  place  to 
enlarge  on  the  services  which  were  rendered  by  that  truly  good 
man  to  the  cause  of  truth  ;  but  the  Free  Church  does  well  when 
she  embalms  the  memory  of  that  small,  but  noble,  band  of 
country  gentlemen  who  broke  away  from  the  traditional  policy 
of  their  order,  and  were  not  ashamed  to  confess  Christ."  * 

Mr.  Taylor  states  that  within  the  bounds  of  the  Presbytery  of 
Cupar  (Fife),  they  had  a  goodly  number  of  persons  who,  by 
their  position  in  society,  were  fitted  to  conduct  and  encourage 
the  movement.  '*  There  was  Maitland  Makgill  Crichton  of  Ran- 
keillor,  and  his  brotiier.  Captain  James  Maitland  at  Rossie. 
There  was  James  Ogilvie  Dalgliesh  of  Woodburn,  and  his 
brother.  Captain  Archibald  Dalgliesh.  There  were  the  Heriots 
of  Ramornie,  Mrs.  Makgill  of  Kemback  and  her  daughters, 
Mrs.  Bethune  of  Blebo,  and  Mr.  Meldrum  of  Craigfoodie.  Mr. 
Rigg  of  Tarvit  returned  from  the  Continent  in  1843.  An 
hour's  conversation  with  Dr.  Begg  supplied  the  old  man's  mind 
with  the  leading  facts  and  strong  points  of  the  controversy. 
He  declared  himself  for  the  Free  Church,  and  unflinchingly  and 
most  heartily  he  stood  by  her  to  his  life's  end.  My  pen  would 
readily  record  my  impressions  of  this  '  good  old  country  geutle- 
nian,  all  of  the  olden  time.'  As  an  only  son,  and  the  heir  of 
*  Rev.  D.  Fergusoon,  Disr.  Mss.  Ixxviii.  pp.  11,  12. 


464  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISETJPTION. 

Tarvit,  he  held  in  his  early  days  a  commission  in  the  Guards. 
I  remember  him  telling  me,  with  great  pleasure,  of  a  little 
interview  he  had  with  George  III.  He  was  on  duty  in  one  of 
the  London  Parks,  mounted  on  horseback,  and  in  full  regimen- 
tals. His-  Majesty  accosted  him  in  passing — '  From  what  part 
of  the  country  are  you,  young  man  ? '  '  From  Scotland,  please 
your  Majesty.'  This  was  all,  but  simple  as  it  was,  it  dwelt  on 
the  old  man's  mind,  as  a  sunny  spot,  that  he  had  spoken  to  the 
King.  Mr.  Rigg  had  been  a  foxhunter  in  his  day,  and  his  house 
was  distinguished  for  its  lavish  hospitality ;  and  he  was  obliged 
to  live  for  a  time  on  the  Continent.  When  he  returned  to 
Tarvit,  in  1843,  his  old  kindness  and  liberality  continued,  but 
they  were  directed  into  new  channels.  He  now  laid  himself 
and  his  means  out  for  good-doing.  He  opened  his  house  for 
the  entertainment  of  those  who  came  on  the  Church's  work. 
Mr.  Reid  of  Collessie  named  him  the  '  Gains  of  the  Church.' 
In  all  this,  he  was  aided  and  guided  by  his  daughter,  who  was 
ready  for  every  good  work. 

"  I  must  not  omit  in  this  enumeration,  the  Misses  Moncrieff 
of  Southfield,  Auchtermuchty.  They  lived  a  life  of  faith,  and 
prayer,  and  devotedness.  The  cause  and  Church  of  Christ  were 
their  chief  interest  and  joy."  * 

Of  all  the  landlords,  however,  who  befriended  the  Free  Church, 
the  most  conspicuous  was  the  Marquis  of  Breadalbane,  the 
notices  of  whom,  as  given  in  the  Disruption  Mss.,  must  not  be 
omitted.  Educated  for  a  time  under  the  care  of  Dr.  Brown,  of 
Langton,  he  had  been  early  taught  the  principles  of  Presby- 
terianism — his  country's  religion — and, in  after  life,  adopted  them 
on  thorough  conviction,  identifying  himself  with  his  Church  in 
London  as  well  as  in  Scotland.  Of  his  services  in  Parliament, 
when  single-handed  he  upheld  the  cause  of  the  Free  Church 
among  his  Peers,  this  is  not  the  place  to  speak,  but  the  sup- 
port which  he  gave  to  the  cause  on  his  extensive  estates  well 
deserves  to  be  remembered. 

During  the  spring  of  1843,  the  Rev.  A.  Sinclair  states, 
a  deputation  came  to  Kenmore  to  address  the  people  of  the 
parish,  and  were  cordially  received  by  the  Marquis.  "  Mr.  Duff, 
*  Disr.  Mss.  xxxvii^. 


FKIENDS.  4(j5 

then  parish  minister,  declined  to  give  the  keys  of  the  church, 
on  the  ground  that  the  object  of  the  deputation  was  to  disturb 
the  peace  of  the  Church.  The  Marquis,  however,  was  not  to 
be  defeated.  He  sent  a  second  messenger  to  say  to  Mr.  Duff 
that  while  on  Sabbath  he  would  be  left  in  undisturbed  pos- 
session, on  every  other  day  he  held  his  right  as  heritor  to  have 
the  use  of  them.  The  keys  were  given  up,  the  church  doors 
thrown  open,  and  the  deputies  addressed  a  large  and  enthusiastic 
meeting.  His  Lordship  also  spoke,  and  gave,  as  he  was  well 
able  to  do,  a .  lucid  and  convincing  exposition  of  the  points  he 
handled.  The  result  was  that  the  people  in  a  body  signed 
their  adherence."  * 

The  keynote  was  thus  struck  in  the  Breadalbane  district,  and 
after  the  Disruption,  which  soon  followed,  the  most  effectual 
help  was  given.  The  following  description  by  Mr.  Clark  of 
Aberfeldy  will  enable  the  reader  to  understand  the  important 
services  which  were  rendered  : — 

"  It  is  pleasing  to  record  that  there  was  no  refusal  of  sites 
no  real  hardship  worth  mentioning.  This  was  owing,  under- 
God,  in  no  small  measure  to  the  influence  of  the  most  extensive 
landed  proprietor  within  the  bounds — an  enlightened,  patriotic. 
Christian  nobleman — the  last  Marquis  of  Breadalbane,  who, 
while  most  of  the  landed  aristocracy  were  indifferent  or  hostile, 
cast  in  his  lot,  heart  and  soul,  with  the  Free  Church.  '  Out- 
and-out  a  Scotchman  in  his  spirit,  his  predilections,  his  prin- 
ciples, and  in  the  higher  aims  and  objects  of  his  life,'  says  one 
who  knew  him  well  (Professor  William  Chalmers,  of  London), 
'  his  general  character  was  that  of  manly  strength.  Like  his 
person,  firmly  built,  it  was  solid,  sturdy,  simple,  unpretentious, 
but  breathing  unmistakably  an  air  of  conscious  elevation,  inborn 
dignity,  and  native  greatness.  His  intellect  was  uncommonly 
vigorous,  searching,  and  comprehensive,  capable  of  grappling 
with  any  subject,  sure  to  examine  it  on  every  side,  and  almost 
certain,  not  swiftly,  but  after  due  deliberation,  to  arrive  at  the 
soundest  conclusion.' 

"  His  sympathies  had  been  with  the  Non-Intrusion  party 
throughout   the   whole   of   the  controversy.      In  his  place  in 
*  Disr.  Mss.  Ixiii.  p.  4. 

2H 


466  ANNAI.R  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 

the  House  of  Lords,  in  a  masterly  manner,  he  vindicated 
the  claims  of  the  Church  and  the  independent  jurisdiction 
of  her  Courts.  When  the  crisis  came,  he  showed  his  inde- 
pendence of  thought  and  action,  and  strength  of  principle, 
yet  acted  with  his  usual  deliberation.  It  was  not  for  some  days 
after  the  Disruption  that  he  announced  his  resolution  to  vindi- 
cate his  own  principles  as  a  Presbyterian,  and  to  leave  the 
Established  Church.  *  In  what  I  did  for  the  Presbyterian 
cause,'  said  he,  '  although  my  services  were  poor  and  small,  I 
trust  they  were  honest.  I  endeavozired  to  follow  those  prin- 
ciples in  which  I  was  first  instructed  as  a  Presbyterian,  and 
which  I  am  determined  to  pursue  through  life.  Let  them  say 
luhat  they  will,  it  is  we  who  have  succeeded.  We  have  lost  the 
aliment  of  the  State,  and  pain  and  privation  have  been  the  con- 
sequence ;  but  at  this  moment  here  we  stand,  safe  through  the 
trials  of  the  conflict,  pure  as  in  the  times  of  our  fathers,  the 
Free  and  ancient  Church  of  Scotland.  We  acknowledge  no 
Head  but  Christ' 

"■  With  the  sympathy  and  substantial  help  of  such  a  nobleman 
and  elder  on  her  side,  the  Free  Church  in  the  district  of  Bread- 
albane  speedily  grew  in  strength  and  shape.  It  was  no  easy 
task  to  supply  ordinances  to  so  many  hungering  for  the  word 
of  life.  The  cry  from  every  side — from  Amulree  to  Poss  and 
Rannoch — was.  Send  us  ministers  to  preach.  It  was  a  busy 
time,  but  a  time  of  quickened  earnestness,  and  of  real  blessing 
to  many.  Ministers  from  a  distance  came  and  gave  help.  The 
Marquis  showed  them  much  kindness  and  hospitality.  Con- 
veyances from  Taymouth  were  placed  at  their  disposal,  to  carry 
them  from  place  to  place  to  proclaim  the  Gospel  of  the  king- 
dom. With  all  his  favour  for  the  Free  Church,  never  did 
tenant,  servant,  or  dependant  suffer  at  Lord  Breadalbane's 
hands  for  his  religious  convictions,  nor  was  he  asked  what 
Church  he  belonged  to. 

"  Mr.  Stewart,  the  outgoing  minister  of  Killin,  had,  of  course, 
to  quit  his  manse ;  but  the  residence  at  Finlarig  was  at  once 
fitted  up  for  his  reception.  At  Strathfillan  and  on  both  sides 
of  Loch  Tay  the  places  of  worship  and  manses  were  given  for 
the  use  of  the  Free  Church.     The  time  and  services  of  his 


FRIENDS.  467 

Lordship's  overseers  were  as  entirely  given  to  the  planning  and 
erection  of  temporary  places  of  meeting  as  if  these  were  parts  of 
the  estate's  improvement.  His  contributions  in  timber  and  money 
to  these,  and  afterwards  to  the  substantial  building  of  churches 
and  manses  at  Kenmore,  Aberfeldy,  &c.  &c.,  were  very  munifi- 
cent. He  gave  the  same  friendly  help  to  the  Free  Church  on 
his  extensive  estates  in  Argyllshire,  besides  his  many  liberal 
contributions  to  meet  other  pressing  requirements  of  the  Church 
beyond  his  own  territory.  Nothing  lay  so  near  his  heart  as  the 
mental,  moral,  and  religious  elevation  of  the  people  on  his 
estates,  which  he  justly  regarded  as  the  best  guarantee  for  the 
improvement  of  their  social  condition  and  material  comforts ; 
and  cheerfully  and  liberally  did  he  help  the  people  in  the  erec- 
tion of  schools  on  his  extensive  property,  which  have  proved 
an  incalculable  blessing  to  the  rising  generation."* 

How  all  this  drew  to  him  the  hearts  of  his  people  may  be 
seen  from  the  statement  of  Dr.  Chalmers  at  the  Inverness 
Assembly  in  1845: — "As  a  living  proof  that  our  position 
has  no  effect  in  loosening  those  ties  which  ought  to  subsist 
between  superiors  and  inferiors,  let  me  advert  to  what  came  under 
my  own  observation  last  week  in  the  district  of  Breadalbane. 
I  was  then  on  a  visit  to  the  Marquis,  .  .  .  and  I  will  just 
say  that  so  far  from  devotion  to  superiors  being  slackened  or 
relaxed  by  our  Free  Church  system,  there  is  no  district  in  the 
Highlands  where  you  see  it  in  greater  perfection  at  this  moment 
than  in  the  district  of  Breadalbane,  enthroned  as  that  noble 
Marquis  is  in  the  love  and  confidence  of  all  his  people.  ...  In 
virtue  of  his  being  a  friend  of  the  Free  Church,  the  high  views 
of  chieftainship  sit  all  the  more  securely  and  all  the  more 
gracefully  upon  him."  f 

*  Disruption  Mss.  Ix.  pp.  1-3. 

T  Dr.  Chalmers,  Ass.  Proc.  1845,  ii.  p.  106. 


468  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISKUPTION. 


XXXIII.  Prejudices  Eemoved. 

It  is  right  to  record  some  of  those  cases  in  which  the  hostility 
of  adversaries  was  changed  into  a  feeling  of  cordial  goodwill 

"  Be  it  remembered  to  their  praise,"  says  Dr.  Guthrie,  "  that 
the  two  great  statesmen  [Lord  Aberdeen  and  Sir  James 
Graham,]  who  were  made  tools  of  by  a  miserable  party  on  this 
side  of  the  border,  did  confess — the  one  publicly,  on  the  floor 
of  the  House  of  Commons,  and  the  other,  to  my  knowledge, 
privately — that  the  one  act  of  their  lives  which  they  looked 
back  on  with  the  deepest  regret  was  the  part  they  had  been 
led  to  play."  Alluding  to  Dr.  Guthrie's  statement,  Mr.  Murray 
Dunlop,  M.P.,  said  publicly  at  Carlisle  (26th  September,  1862)  : 
"  I  think  it  right  to  confirm  that  statement  by  repeating  what 
Sir  J.  Graham  said  to  myself.  About  a  year  or  two  before  his 
death  he  said,  in  a  very  earnest  tone  and  manner :  '  I  have 
never  ceased  to  deplore  the  part  I  took  in  your  Scotch  Church 
affairs.' "  * 

This  change  was  what  Dr.  Chalmers  confidently  expected: 
— "I  believe  the  upper  classes  very  honestly  thought  very 
ill  of  us.  They  looked  on  us  as  so  many  Radicals  and  revo- 
lutionaries ;  and  I  have  heard  some  of  <he  higher  classes  for 
whom  I  have  the  greatest  respect  associate  the  Disruption 
with  the  idea  of  a  coming  revolution.  I  have  myself  heard 
them  speak  so  r  but  I  believe  that  the  experience  of  our  being 
a  far  more  harmless  generation  than  they  had  any  conception 
of  previously,  has  gone  a  considerable  way  to  mitigate  that  feel- 
ing, and  I  trust  that  the  mitigation  will  go  on."  -f- 

Within  three  weeks  of  the  time  when  these  kindly  words 

*  Life  of  Dr.  Guthrie,  ii.  p.  66. 

+  Report  on  Sites,  iii.  p.  136,  q.  6436. 


PREJUDICES  REMOVED.  469 

were  spoken,  the  great  leader  had  gone  to  his  rest ;  but  many 
examples  of  the  happy  change  he  expected,  soon  showed  them- 
selves. 

One  thing  which  helped  forward  this  result  was  the  tone  of 
those  farewell  sermons — the  parting  words  in  which  the  out- 
going ministers  had  taken  leave  of  their  people.  How  this 
was  done  the  reader  has  already  seen ;  but  additional  ex- 
amples may  here  be  given  from  the  feelings  expressed  by  Mr. 
Sym,  of  Edinburgh,  and  his  friend,  Mr.  Craig,  of  Sprouston. 
While  urging  his  hearers  solemnly  to  consider  what  faithful- 
ness to  Christ  required,  Mr.  Sym  went  on  to  say  :  "  There  are 
some  among  you  from  whom  I  expect  to  be  separated,  and  for 
whom  I  cherish  a  profound  respect  and  most  affectionate 
esteem.  .  .  .  Examine  narrowly  the  grounds  of  your  conduct. 
'  Prove  all  things ;  hold  fast  that  which  is  good.'  '  Let  every 
man  be  fully  persuaded  in  his  own  mind;'  for  'whatsoever  is 
not  of  faith  is  sin.'  If  we  must  separate,  let  us  at  least  part 
in  peace,  not  in  anger ;  for  the  wrath  of  man  worketh  not 
the  righteousness  of  God — not  in  the  exercise  of  supercilious 
pride  or  intolerant  bigotry,  but  in  the  exercise  of  an  enlarged 
charity,  with  mutual  regret  and  with  mutual  desires  for  each 
other's  welfare."  * 

In  similar  terms  Mr.  (/raig  took  leave  of  those  who  remained 
in  the  Establishment : — "  I  have  but  one  request  to  make — viz., 
that  you  would  call  to  mind  and  lay  to  heart  the  truths  of  the 
Gospel  which  it  has  been  my  privilege  from  Sabbath  to  Sab- 
bath to  make  known  to  you.  You  have  my  sincere  wishes 
and  prayers  for  your  spiritual  and  temporal  wellbeing ;  and  let 
me  assure  you  that  I  will  not  soon  forget  the  uniform  kindness, 
and  forbearance,  and  respect  which  I  have  experienced  at  your 
hands." 

When  ministers  thus  publicly  left  their  churches  with  the 
law  of  kindness  on  their  lips,  the  hostility  of  their  opponents 
might  well  be  disarmed.  In  private,  also,  efforts  were  made 
to  retain  the  goodwill  of  former  friends. 

A  fine  instance  of  this  occurred  at  Collessie,  in  Fife.     Mr. 
M'Farlan,  minister  of  the  parish  (afterwards  Dr.  M'Farlan,  of 
*  Memoir  of  Rev.  J.  Sym,  p.  80. 


470  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

Dalkeith),  had  rendered  effective  service  during  the  Ten  Years' 
Conflict,  and  had  been  honoured  by  an  interdict.  He  was 
conspicuous,  for  example,  on  that  day  already  referred  to,  when 
the  Presbytery  of  Cupar  met  in  the  church  at  Flisk,  and  Dr. 
Anderson,  in  presiding  at  the  induction  of  Mr.  Taylor,  took 
.advantage  of  his  position  to  make  an  attack  on  the  evangelical 
majority  of  the  Church  of  Scotland  under  cover  of  a  charge 
to  the  newly-settled  minister.  The  address,  Mr.  Taylor  states, 
gave  rise  to  an  animated  discussion.  "Mr.  M'Farlan,  of 
Collessie,  but  since  removed  to  Dalkeith,  to  our  Presbytery's 
loss,  a  man  of  clear  mind  and  ready  words,  asked  the  people 
to  remain ;  and  animadverting  with  merited  severity  upon 
the  Doctor's  address,  moved  that  the  term  'suitable,'  with 
which  the  clerk  in  his  blundering  haste  had  characterised 
the  address,  be  omitted."  * 

Eeady  thus  to  take  his  part  in  debate,  and  to  suffer  when  the 
time  came,  he  knew  at  the  same  time  what  was  due  to  the 
courtesies  of  life.  The  patron  of  the  parish — a  resident  heritor, 
who  had  been  uniformly  kind,  to  whom,  indeed,  he  owed  his 
appointment — had  shown  signs  of  dissatisfaction,  and  Dr. 
M'Farlan  wrote  him  a  letter,  which  deserves  to  be  given  in 
full  :— 

"Manse  of  Collessie,  Mmj,  1843. 

"  Dear  Sir, — You  have  already  received,  I  have  no  doubt, 
official  notice  of  the  vacancy  in  the  parish  of  Collessie,  and  the 
cause  of  that  vacancy.  I  think  it,  however,  only  an  expression 
of  due  respect  to  you  as  the  patron  of  that  parish,  and  by 
whom  I  have  been  so  much  obliged,  to  communicate  with  you 
directly  on  the  subject.  I  shall  not  trouble  you  by  an  attempt 
to  detail  the  reasons  that  have  influenced  me,  along  with  so 
many  of  my  brethren  in  the  ministry,  to  resign  my  connection 
with  the  Establishment.  Suffice  it  to  say,  that  we  are  acting  on 
a  clear,  deep,  and  conscientious  conviction  that  the  Established 
Church  of  Scotland,  as  defined  by  recent  decisions  of  the  Civil 
Courts — decisions  virtually  approved  and  ratified  by  the  Legis- 
lature of  the  country — convert  it  into  a  kind  of  institution  which 
we  did  not  understand  it  to  be  when  we  became  ministers  of  thac 
*  Disr.  Mss.  xxxvii.  p.  8. 


PEEJUDICES  REMOVED.  47l 

Church;  and  that  the  only  course  that  remained  for  us,  as  honest 
men  and  ministers  of  the  Gospel,  was  to  retire  from  an  Estab- 
lishment, the  constitution  of  which,  as  so  explained,  we  could  no 
longer  approve.  Allow  me,  however,  to  say  that  I  do  not  on 
that  account  feel  the  less  indebted  to  you,  as  patron  of  the 
parish  of  Collessie,  for  the  very  handsome  and  disinterested 
manner  in  which  you  presented  me  to  that  charge.  .  You  acted, 
I  believe,  on  public  grounds  alone,  with  exclusive  reference  to 
the  interests  of  the  parish  in  making  that  appointment,  and  I 
can  only  desire  that  during  the  period  of  my  incumbency  I  had, 
by  the  blessing  of  God,  been  enabled  more  fully  to  justify  your 
choice.  You  will  believe  me,  that  it  is  not  any  want  of  grati- 
tude to  you,  or  any  feeling  of  dissatisfaction  with  a  situation  in 
every  respect  so  very  desirable,  that  influenced  me  in  coming  to 
the  resolution  I  have  taken.  So  far  from  it,  the  greatest  sacri- 
fice I  have  ever  been  called  upon  to  make  is  that  which  I  have 
made  in  resigning  my  place  as  a  minister  of  the  Establishment. 
Nothing  but  a  deep  sense  of  duty  could  have  induced,  or  indeed 
would  have  warranted,  our  taking  the  step  we  have  done.  The 
course  we  have  felt  ourselves  bound  to  adopt  you  may  not  think 
was  called  for,  you  may  not  approve.  But  you  will  allow  me  to 
express  a  hope  that  those  mutual  feelings  of  personal  respect 
and  goodwill  which  should  universally  prevail,  will  not  be  ex- 
tinguished, or  even  diminished,  by  the  distressing  circumstances 
which,  in  the  course  of  a  wise  but  inscrutable  providence,  have 
been  permitted  to  arise." 

The  desire  thus  shown  by  the  ministers  to  remove  prejudice 
and  restore  kindly  feeling  met  its  reward. 

Sometimes  the  response  came  at  once.  At  St.  Cyrus,  where 
the  farewell  sermon  was  preached  by  the  Rev.  A.  Keith,  jun., 
assistant  and  successor  to  his  father,  the  well-known  Dr.  Keith, 
one  of  the  heritors,  Mr.  Straiton  of  Kirkside,  an  adherent  of  the 
Establishment,  gave  a  signal  proof  of  personal  regard.  That 
Sabbath  afternoon  he  sent  a  letter  expressed  in  strong  terms 
of  respectful  kindness,  and  enclosing  a  contribution  of  £30  in 
aid  of  the  Free  Church  of  St.  Cyrus. 

Another  of  these  marked  examples  occurred  at  Callander, 
•n    the    case    of  Mr.  Donald  M'Laren,  who  is  described  as  a 


472  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

true  Highlander  of  the  Celtic  type.  He  had  begun  life  as  a 
small  farmer  and  drover,  had  added  to  this  the  business  of 
private  banking,  and  being  a  man  of  great  sagacity  and  energy,  as 
well  as  benevolence,  had  risen  to  a  position  of  affluence  and 
almost  unlimited  influence  in  the  town  and  parish,  owing  to  the 
confidence  which  all  men  reposed  in  him. 

At  first  he  was  not  only  hostile  to  the  Free  Church,  but 
looked  on  the  active  members  of  the  party  with  keen  feelings  of 
resentment.  With  all  his  influence  he  took  a  leading  part  along 
with  the  parish  minister  in  his  eflforts  to  defeat  them.  Circum- 
stances, however,  the  details  of  which  need  not  be  given,  led 
him  to  reconsider  the  whole  question,  and  the  result  was  a  com- 
plete change  of  his  opinions.  He  was  not  a  man  of  many  words, 
but  once  his  mind  was  made  up  he  sought  the  leaders  and  asked, 
"  What  progress  have  you  made  in  this  Free  Church  undertaking 
of  yours  ? "  "  They  frankly  told  him  all.  The  beginning  was 
small;  but  small  as  it  was,  their  hope  was  good.  'Our  great 
difficulty,'  they  said,  '  at  present  is,  to  obtain  a  site  on  which  we 
may  build  our  church.'  '  That  ought  not  to  be  a  difficulty  in 
this  wide  country,'  casting  his  eyes  round  on  the  landscape  as 
he  spoke  ;  '  and  it  will  no  longer  be  your  difficulty.'  He  asked 
to  see  the  design  of  their  future  church  which  they  had  adopted  in 
view  of  building.  A  Tanfield  Hall  sketch  was  produced,  simple 
enough,  but  of  the  kind  which  was  then,  especially  in  the  poorer 
localities,  very  generally  chosen  by  the  people  for  the  accom- 
modation which  they  should  require  when  compelled  to  abandon 
the  places  of  worship  in  which  they  and  their  fathers  in  past 
generations  had  worshipped.  Mr,  M'Laren  invited  his  wonder- 
ing auditors  to  meet  him  next  morning,  and  to  bring  with  them 
implements  for  digging.  They  did  so,  filled  with  thankfulness 
for  the  light  thus  shed  on  their  path.  The  site  was  granted,  a 
gift,  and  on  easy  conditions.  It  was  the  beautiful  spot  on  which 
the  Free  Church  of  Callander  now  stands,  close  to  the  river,  and 
in  the  immediate  vicinity  of  the  chapel  where  the  meeting  was 
held  at  which  was  inaugurated  the  movement  that  had  this 
happy  termination.  To  the  gift  of  the  site  Mr.  M'Laren  added 
a  contribution  to  the  funds  of  the  local  committee  of  £200. 
Thus  it  was  all  joy  and  gladness  in  the  hearts  of  the  friends  of 


PREJUDICES  REMOVED.  473 

the  suffering  Church  at  Callander."*  The  gift  thus  bestowed 
was  the  first  of  a  long  series  of  munificent  contributions  by  the 
donor  to  the  cause  of  the  Free  Church. 

In  another  district  of  the  Perthshire  Highlands  there  was  an 
influential  landed  proprietor  who,  "partly  from  not  having  given 
attention  to  the  subject,  and  partly  from  having  imbibed  the 
prejudices  of  the  social  circle  in  which  he  moved,  had  taken  up 
an  attitude  of  decided  opposition  to  the  Free  Church.  The 
minister  of  a  neighbouring  charge  had  been  appointed  to  preach 
in  the  glen.  The  laird  invited  him  to  the  hospitality  of  his 
mansion  on  the  Saturday,  for  in  spite  of  his  prejudice,  he  had 
as  kindly  a  heart  as  ever  beat  in  a  Highlander's  breast.  Next 
morning  the  people  would  scarcely  believe  their  eyes  when  they 
saw  the  laird  driving  the  Free  Church  minister  up  to  the  wooden 
church,  or  refrain  from  looking  their  delight — for  he  was  greatly 
beloved — when  they  saw  him  sitting  among  them  as  a  devout 
worshipper.  The  truth  commended  itself  to  his  conscience.  It 
was  his  first  Sabbath  in  the  Free  Church,  but  not  his  last.  He 
was  rarely  absent  on  a  Sabbath  thereafter.  Not  long  after,  he 
gave  sites  for  church  and  manse  on  his  own  lands,  and  contri- 
buted handsomely  to  the  buildings.  Not  in  all  the  Highlands 
was  there  a  more  punctual  attender  on  ordinances,  or  a  member 
more  warmly  interested  in  the  prosperity  of  the  congregation, 
or  a  more  regular  and  generous  contributor  to  its  funds,  or  one 
whose  removal  by  death  in  1868  was  more  sincerely  and  exten- 
sively lamented — as  the  considerate  friend  of  the  poor — ever  ready 
to  lend  a  helping  hand  to  all  that  was  for  the  good  of  the  people 
among  whom  he  dwelt, — the  useful  country  gentleman  and  the 
Christian.  '  Come  and  see.'  He  came  among  us,  saw,  heard, 
judged  for  himself,  and  groundless  prejudice  gave  place  to 
cordial  sympathy."  -f* 

Among  the  Ayrshire  proprietors  one  of  the  most  prominent 
site  refusers  was  the  amiable  and  popular  Earl  of  Eglinton,  but 
Mr.  Pinkerton  of  Kilwinning  tells  how  in  the  course  of  a  few 
years  the  congregation  had  to  acknowledge  his  kindness  as  well 
as  that  of  the  parish  minister.     The  site  at  first  purchased  by 

*  Memories  of  Disruption  Times,  by  Rev.  Dr.  Beith,  p.  100. 
t  Disr.  Mss.  Ix.  p.  3,  4. 


474  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

Miss  Donald  was  the  best  that  could  be  got  at  the  time,  but 
proved  not  very  suitable.  The  congregation  continued  to 
increase  ;  the  church  got  to  be  too  small.  "  It  was  resolved  that 
a  new  church  should  be  built,  but  it  was  felt  that  it  would  be 
vain  to  build  unless  a  good  site  were  obtained.  It  happened 
that  one  of  the  best  sites  in  the  parish  was  unoccupied.  The 
lord  superior  was  the  late  Earl  of  Eglinton.  But  would  he 
grant  a  site  for  a  Free  Church  ?  I  resolved  to  wait  upon  his 
lordship,  but  I  did  so  with  many  fears.  He  received  me 
courteously,  and  on  my  stating  the  object  of  my  mission,  he  at 
once  said,  '  I  shall  be  very  happy  to  give  you  what  you  wish  ; 
where  do  you  desire  to  build  ? '  My  answer  was — '  Unless  we 
get  a  good  site  we  need  not  build.  The  most  desirable  place  is 
on  the  rising  ground  in  the  Howgate,  in  the  field  adjoining  the 
Parish  Church  manse.'  '  By  all  means,  you  shall  have  it,'  was 
the  Earl's  reply. 

"  Thankful  and  gratified  in  the  highest  degree,  I  took  my 
leave.  In  passing  through  the  hall  I  met  his  lordship's  factor, 
to  whom  I  communicated  the  result  of  my  interview.  '  Oh,' 
replied  he,  '  you  cannot  get  that  site.  His  lordship  has  forgotten 
the  promise  he  made  to  Dr.  Campbell  (the  Established  Church 
minister),  that  the  field  should  not  be  built  upon  during  Dr. 
Campbell's  life  ;  that  field  is  tabooed.' 

"  Dr.  Camj)bell  was,  and  had  long  been,  the  leader  of  the 
Moderates  [in  the  Presbytery].  He  was  a  most  honourable  and 
gentlemanly  man.  I  immediately  went  to  him  and  stated  how 
matters  stood,  '  It  is  true  that  Lord  Eglinton,  out  of  regard 
to  myself,  promised  that  this  field,  being  alongside  of  my  manse, 
would  not  be  built  upon  in  my  lifetime  ;  yet  I  cannot  refuse  ;  I 
will  not  stand  in  your  way  in  building  a  church.' 

"  A  very  handsome  church  on  a  commanding  site  was  built ; 
and  as  building  happened  at  the  time  to  be  very  cheap,  church 
and  spire,  together  with  an  illuminated  clock,  which  sends  its 
light  all  along  the  main  street,  cost  only  £2300.  It  was  opened 
clear  of  debt  in  September,  1861,  by  the  Rev.  Dr.  Guthrie." 

In  Fife,  Mr.  Taylor  speaks  of  a  proprietor  in  the  neighbour- 
hood who  had  refused  a  site  to  the  Free  Church  in  decided 
terms,  but  who,  in  after  years,  became  a  frequent  attendant 


PREJUDICES  REMOVED.  475 

along  with  his  family.  "  Born  an  Episcopalian,  and  bred  at 
Oxford,  his  views  of  Divine  truth  were  Arminian,  if  not  semi- 
Pelagian.  In  a  house  where  he  was  calling,  a  little  volume 
which  treats  of  Divine  grace  lay  on  the  table.  He  looked  at 
it,  and  read  its  contents,  and  his  remark  was,  *  I  hate  these 
doctrines.'  These  doctrines  he  now  holds  and  loves.  I  have 
noticed  a  very  great  change  in  his  views  ;  others  have  observed 
it.  What  a  first-rate  Presbyterian  elder  he  would  have  made. 
He  visits  the  sick  and  prays  with  them.  He  is  ready  for  every 
good  work.  But  this  is  one  of  the  sad  legacies  which  the 
Stuart  dynasty  have  left  to  our  country — the  gentry  separated 
from  their  country's  Church."* 

One  of  the  most  interesting  examples  of  these  favourable 
changes  occurred  in  the  family  of  Colonel  Campbell  of  Possil. 
We  have  seen  the  hardships  under  which  the  congregation  at 
Torosay  had  to  worship  in  the  gravel  pit  under  high-water 
mark.  "  But  better  days  dawned  at  last  on  this  faithful  people, 
not  one  of  whom  ever  showed  the  white  feather,  or  returned  to 
the  Establishment,  though  without  a  place  of  worship  for  nearly 
ten  years,  and  without  a  minister  of  their  own  for  twenty-six 
years.  The  son  of  Colonel  Campbell;  who  succeeded  to  the 
estate  on  his  father's  death,  with  l  generosity  which  was 
characteristic  of  him,  granted  a  site  on  the  most  favourable 
terms, — indeed  for  a  nominal  feu-duty.  And  what  was  more 
gratifying  stiU,  the  site  was  granted  on  a  beautiful  knoll  near  to 
the  old  and  much-loved  gravel  pit  round  which  so  many 
memories  had  gathered,  and  which  was  rendered  sacred  by  so 
many  hallowed  associations.  But  the  obligations  of  the  Free 
Church  people  of  Torosay  to  cherish  with  deepest  gi-atitude  the 
memory  of  Captain  Campbell  and  his  family,  did  not  cease  even 
with  the  gift  of  a  site.  Where  was  the  money  to  come  from 
with  which  to  build  a  church  ?  The  congregation  was  poor  and 
comparatively  small.  The  Free  Church  had  her  hands  full — 
more  than  full — of  the  work  of  building  churches,  to  be  able  to 
render  very  substantial  aid  to  the  poor  congregation  at  Torosay. 
But  neither  the  Church  at  large,  nor  the  congregation  at  Toro- 
say,  was  called  upon  to  raise  the  necessary  funds,  for  they  were 
*  Disr.  Mss.  xxxvii.-  p.  20. 


476  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISKUPTION. 

already  raised  chiefly  by  the  kind  exertions  of  the  then  Mrs. 
Campbell,  with,  I  believe,  the  help  of  her  sisters-in-law,  who  were 
active  helpers  in  every  good  cause.  Thus  at  length,  in  1852, 
a  neat  and  comfortable  edifice  was  reared,  rejoicing  in  a  belfry 
and  bell,  the  pride  of  the  villagers  ;  and,  thanks  to  the  generous- 
hearted  son  and  other  members  of  the  family,  the  ill-advised 
treatment  which  the  Free  Church  congregation  at  Torosay  had 
received  at  the  hands  of  the  father  was  more  than  atoned  for. 
The  few  who  still  remain  of  those  who  passed  through  these 
times  of  trial  look  back  upon  them  with  joy  and  thankfulness 
as  times  of  blessing — times  of  strong  faith,  fervent  prayer,  and 
a  quickened  religious  life.  And  as  they  rejoice  in  the  grace 
that  has  enabled  them  to  stand  faithful  in  bearing  testimony  to 
the  crown  rights  of  Christ,  and  that  has  so  abundantly  bestowed 
upon  them  all  the  religious  privileges  which  they  now  enjoy 
in  connection  with  their  much-loved  Free  Church,  they  heartily 
exclaim,  '  Not  unto  us,  0  Lord !  not  unto  us ;  but  unto  Thy 
name  give  glory,  for  Thy  mercy  and  Thy  truth's  sake.' "  * 

At  Latheron,  Caithness,  the  circumstances  also  are  full  of 
interest.  Mr.  Davidson  had  always  lived  on  friendly  terms  with 
the  heritors  of  the  parish,  not  a  single  misunderstanding  having 
arisen  during  the  long  period  they  had  been  together.  "I 
always  treated  them  with  the  respect  due  to  their  station,  and  I 
never  found  that  they  undervalued  the  influence  and  importance 
that  belonged  to  mine.  .  .  .  But  while  they  were  thus  favour- 
ably disposed  towards  me,  several  of  them  were  bitterly  opposed 
to  the  principles  I  held,  and  to  the  Free  Church  as  a  body. 
This  they  soon  manifested  in  various  ways,  especially  when  the 
time  came  for  inducting  my  successor  into  the  Parish  Church." 
The  whole  proprietors  supported  the  new  comer,  and  exerted 
their  influence  to  make  up  a  congregation.  "Promises  and 
threats  were  resorted  to  by  one  or  two,  but  when  Sabbath  came 
there  was  no  response ;  nothing  save  empty  seats  stared  the 
poor  minister  in  the  fiace,  with  a  solitary  heritor  perched  in  each 
of  the  large,  deep  galleries.  Even  liveried  coachmen  and  foot- 
men refused  to  accompany  their  masters  into  the  deserted 
church,  for,  after  unyoking  their  horses,  they  came  and  worship- 
*  Disr.  Mss.  Ixxxii. 


PKEJUDICES  REMOVED,  477 

ped  with  the  Free  congregation.  All  this  must  have  been  sadly 
annoying  to  their  masters,  who  were  high-spirited  gentlemen,  and 
I  often  wondered  how  they  bore  it,  especially  considering  that, 
in  all  other  cases,  they  were  accustomed  to  implicit  obedience 
from  all  their  dependents,  for  their  tenants  had  no  leases  and 
could  be  removed,  as  was  often  the  case,  for  any  act  of  dis- 
obedience. ...  To  be  deserted  by  their  servants  in.  particular, 
was  intolerable,  for  they  had  not  a  single  person  without  or 
within  doors,  from  the  grieve  and  housekeeper  down  to  the  herd 
boy  or  girl,  that  would  enter  the  church  with  them.  Here  was 
evidence — if  such  had  been  wanting — that  the  reign  of  feudal- 
ism was  gone." 

How  the  leading  heritor,  the  highest  in  rank  as  well  as  in 
zeal  for  Moderatism,  acted  on  the  occasion  we  formerly  saw 
(see  ante,  at  page  359)  ;  but  ere  long  there  came  a  change. 
"  Strange  to  say,  from  being  the  most  opposed,  this  proprietor 
was  the  first  to  acknowledge  his  error,  and  to  become  a  regular 
worshipper  in  our  church.  Some  time  after  the  Disruption  he 
fell  into  rather  delicate  health,  and  on  one  occasion  when  visiting 
him — for  our  friendship  had  not  ceased,  although  not  quite  so 
cordial  as  formerly — he  asked  me  if  we  had  any  seat  to  spare  in 
our  church,  as  he  had  a  mind  to  become  a  hearer  with  us.  I 
told  him  that  we  had  just  reserved  one  principal  seat  in  case  any 
of  the  heritors  should  wish  for  it,  and  that  I  was  sure  none  would 
be  more  welcome  to  it  than  himself.  He  thanked  me  very 
kindly,  and  said  that  he  intended  coming  the  first  Sabbath, 
which  he  did,  and  ever  after  so  long  as  health  permitted. 

"  A  few  months  after  this,  another  principal  heritor,  who  also 
was  formerly  much  opposed  to  us,  asked  me  the  same  question, 
but  to  him  I  was  sorry  we  had  no  seat  to  give.  I  added, 
however,  that  there  was  room  in  the  manse  seat  to  which  he 
would  be  most  welcome,  only  it  was  close  to  the  pulpit.  '  No 
matter,'  he  said,  *  for  I  am  not  coming  to  see  or  be  seen,  but 
to  hear.*  He  did  come,  and  a  more  serious  and  devout  hearer 
I  never  saw.  ...  At  the  first  term  he  had  a  seat  expensively 
fitted  up  by  himself,  and  when  asked  by  his  workmen  what 
colour  of  cloth  should  be  used,  his  answer  was,  '  By  all  means 
uniform  with  the  pulpit.'     Indeed  he  became  truly  serious,  and 


478  ANNAl.S  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

seemed  daily  to  rise  in  the  estimation  of  all  ranks.  But  alas, 
the  seeds  of  consumjjtion  (of  which  liis  mother  died),  were 
deeply  sown  in  his  constitution,  and  carried  him  oflf  in  a  few 
years  in  the  prime  of  life,  to  the  great  grief  of  his  numerous 
tenantry,  to  whom  he  had  latterly  much  endeared  himself.  The 
other  proprietor  to  whom  I  have  alluded  was  cut  off  much  in 
the  same  way.  Both  of  them  became  remarkably  changed  in 
all  respects ;  were  much  occupied  in  reading  the  Scriptures ; 
would  converse  freely  on  religious  subjects,  and  from  being  our 
open  foes  became  our  warmest  friends."  * 

Of  all  these  cases,  however,  the  most  remarkable  is  that  of 
Portpatrick,  the  full  details  of  which  are  given  by  Mr.  Urqu- 
hart : — 

"  The  old  parish  church  had  become  insufficient,  and  a  hand- 
some new  church,  with  ample  accommodation,  was  erected  about 
a  year  before  the  Disruption.  The  site  had  been  selected,  and 
the  building  planned  with  a  view  to  extensive  land  decorations 
on  the  surrounding  slopes,  which,  had  they  been  carried  out, 
would  have  made  Portpatrick  one  of  the  finest  pictures  on  the 
south  of  Scotland.  All  had  been  taken  from  a  sketch  of 
admirable  artistic  skill  by  the  accomplished  wife  of  the  prin- 
cipal and  only  resident  heritor.  General  Hunter  Blair  of  Dun- 
skey.  He  was  very  proud  of  it,  and  it  would  be  heartless  to 
deny  him  all  sympathy  with  his  bitter  disappointment,  when  he 
was  informed  after  the  Convocation,  that  a  large  majority  of 
the  communicants  had  signed  a  resolution  to  leave  the  Estab- 
lished Church  if  the  apprehended  Disruption  took  place.  He 
wrote  to  a  relative,  that  as  Mr.  Urquhart  had  first  persuaded  him 
to  erect  a  church  and  then  robbed  it  of  its  congregation,  he 
could  have  no  further  intercourse  of  any  kind  with  him.  This 
apparently  hopeless  ending  of  ten  years'  friendship,  was  suc- 
ceeded immediately  by  active  opposition.  Tenants  and  retainers, 
all  who  were  likely  to  desire  the  patronage  or  to  fear  the  displeasure 
of  the  Laird  of  Dunskey,  were  set  upon  by  the  factor,  and  urged 
to  withdraw  their  adherence.  One  widow,  on  her  refusing,  was 
deprived  of  a  salary  formerly  paid  to  her  as  a  favourite  teacher. 
But  all  proved  so  unavailing,  that  even  some  of  the  principal 
*  Parker  Mss.,  Latheron,  p.  17. 


PREJUDICES  REMOVED.  479 

servants  of  the  family,  on  the  morning  of  the  first  Sabbath  after 
the  Disruption,  when  asked  where  they  were  preparing  to  go, 
were  strengthened  to  reply,  civilly  but  firmly,  that  they  meant  to 
go  to  the  Green.  The  Green,  commonly  called  '  the  Ward,'  was 
the  open  space  under  the  cliffs  to  the  north  of  the  harbour, 
which  had  been  selected  for  the  open-air  worship  of  the  Free 
Church,  because,  being  in  possession  of  the  Commissioners  of 
the  harbour  works,  it  was  free  from  any  immediate  danger 
of  an  interdict  by  local  parties,  and  admitted  of  an  easy  ad- 
journment to  the  sea-beach  in  case  of  unexpected  interference. 
Here  the  congregation  worshipped  for  four  months  un- 
molested. 

"The  church  at  Portpatrick  was  roofed  before  winter,  but 
before  this.  General  Blair  and  his  wife  had  left  the  neighbour- 
hood and  gone  to  the  Continent  in  disgust,  having  advertised 
the  mansion-house  and  policies  to  be  let  for  years.  Before  they 
left  two  most  desirable  offers  were  sent  in.  But  both  were 
respectfully  refused  on  the  ground  that  Dunskey  could  not  be 
let  to  any  one  who  was  not  attached  to  the  Established  Church, 
and  those  who  had  offered  were  known  to  belong  to  the  Free 
Church.  This  principle  of  exclusion  was  carefully  observed  in 
the  leases  afterwards  granted,  but  without  much  of  the  benefit 
contemplated.* 

"  After  a  site  for  the  church  was  obtained  with  some  diffi- 
culty, neither  stone  for  building  nor  sand  could  be  got  from 
any  of  the  proprietors.  By  the  kindness  of  a  tenant,  the  neces- 
sary quantity  of  stone  was  procured  from  blocks  scattered  over 
his  farm,  about  three  miles  distant.  A  young  grocer  in  the 
village,  a  Keformed  Presbyterian,  offered  gratuitously  the  use  of 
a  small  vessel  belonging  to  him  to  bring  granite  sand  from 
Brodick  Bay,  in  the  Island  of  Arran.  On  learning  of  this  offer, 
the  factor  earnestly  warned  him  that  he  would  lose  all  the 
export  trade  from  the  Dunskey  estate ;  but  he  answered,  with 
his  compliments,  that  he  would  be  very  sorry  to  lose  the  cus- 
tom of  Dunskey,  yet,  if  it  should  be  so,  he  would  look  for  cus- 
tomers to  some  other  quarter.  No  one  could  then  have  believed  it 
possible  that  he  would  in  after  years  become  the  largest  tenant 
*  Disr.  Mss.  Ixxxviii. 


480  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

and  the  factor,  not  only  on  the  Dunskey  estate,  but  on  the  larger 
estates  belonging  to  the  family  in  Ayrshire. 

"  Of  all  the  breaches  of  friendship  caused  by  the  struggles  of 
the  Disruption,  that  with  General  and  Mrs.  Hunter  Blair  lay 
heaviest  and  longest  on  my  heart.  I  could  not  forget  the  years 
of  familiar  intercourse  in  which  I  experienced  their  kindness. 
I  could  not  fail  to  see  that  a  long  life  of  military  service  in  the 
wars_both  of  Europe  and  India,  had  established  in  the  mind  of 
the  General  such  habitual  intolerance  of  insubordination  that 
everything  having  the  slightest  aspect  of  this,  was  sure  to  ex- 
clude considerations  which  would  otherwise  have  influenced  bis 
naturally  tender  and  generous  heart.  Nor  could  I  forget  his 
singularly  accomplished  wife,  whose  music  was  fascination,  her 
painting  exquisite,  and  her  figure  and  manner  such  as  might 
have  been  the  model  of  Rebecca  on  the  tower. 

"  With  such  remembrances  and  associations,  it  would  have 
been  unpardonable  if  I  had  not  felt  it  to  be  my  duty  to  avoid 
everything  which  might  even  appear  to  be  irritating.  Accord- 
ingly, I  objected  earnestly  in  private  to  the  applications  for  a  site, 
and  for  indulgence  in  stone  and  sand,  which  I  knew  would  be 
refused,  as  they  were.  And  I  took  care  that,  as  far  as  possible, 
the  case  of  Portpatrick  should  not  have  a  prominent  place  in  the 
reports  of  the  Church  or  in  pubKc  discussions.  Still  the  anti- 
pathy continued  unabated,  so  that  when,  two  or  three  years 
afterwards,  the  General  was  on  a  visit  to  Portpatrick,  and  saw 
me  coming  up  the  street,  he  coolly  took  the  arm  of  a  friend, 
and,  turning  half  aside,  allowed  me  to  pass  within  about  a  yard 
of  him,  and  in  view  of  the  gentlemen  who  were  walking  around. 
All  seemed  to  be  very  hopeless  in  the  case. 

"  In  1847  Miss  Hunter  Blair*  wrote  to  me  from  Edinburgh 
that  she  was  just  leaving  for  Leamington,  where  her  brother  was 
ill,  and,  she  feared,  was  drawing  near  his  end.  I  was  greatly 
distressed.  This  was  the  only  breach  which  had  not  been 
healed.  Even  the  minister  whose  deposition  by  the  Assembly 
I  had  been  commissioned,  in  the  face  of  interdicts,  to  intimate 
on  the  street  of  Stranraer, — even  he  had  welcomed  me  to  his 

*  A  most  generous  friend  of  the  Free  Church,  who  reduced  her  estab- 
lishment that  she  might  have  the  more  to  give. 


PEEJUDICES  KEMOVED.  481 

bedside  in  liis  last  illness.  I  could  not  go  to  bed  without 
writing  and  posting  a  letter,  in  which  I  asked  Miss  Blair,  if  she 
should  see  fit,  to  say  to  her  brother  that  I  was  grieved  to  hear 
of  his  illness ;  that  I  had  not  forgot  years  of  intercourse  with 
him  at  Dunskey ;  and  that  I  prayed  the  Lord  might  be  with 
him  to  bless  his  sickness  to  him,  &c.  &c. 

"  Immediately  after  posting  the  letter,  I  took  fear  lest  it  might 
prove  offensive,  and  continued  anxious  for  a  fortnight,  till  Miss 
Blair  informed  me  that,  after  consulting  Mrs.  Blair,  she  had 
handed  my  letter  to  her  brother;  and  that  in  a  day  or  two  after- 
wards, on  going  to  his  room,  he  put  his  hand  under  his  pillow, 
saying,  '  Here,  Jemima,  is  Mr.  Urquhart's  letter.  Give  him  my 
kindest  regards.'  It  was  a  relief  inexpressibly  comfortable.  I 
knew  the  ice  had  been  broken,  but  I  could  not  anticipate  the 
warm  current  which  was  to  flow,  and  which  warms  my  heart 
still  in  the  remembrance  of  it. 

"  The  General  recovered,  and  was  able  to  visit  Portpatrick  in 
August,  1848,  along  with  Mrs.  Blair.  As  soon  as  they  arrived 
she  called  when  I  was  from  home,  but  instead  of  merely  ex- 
pressing her  love  to  my  wife  as  she  did  before  leaving  in  1848, 
with  a  refusal  to  see  me,  she  expressed  her  regret  that  I  was 
from  home,  as  the  General  was  very  desirous  to  see  me.  On 
my  return  I  went  immediately  to  his  hotel,  where  Mrs.  Blair 
welcomed  me  with  all  the  cordial  freedom  of  former  days. 
After  some  kind  conversation,  she  said  that  the  General  would 
be  sorry  for  not  being  at  home  to  see  me  ;  that  a  quarrel  between 
two  of  their  friends,  whom  she  named,  was  making  them  very 
uncomfortable ;  and  the  General  thought  I  might  be  able  to 
compose  the  strife,  if  I  would  allow  him  to  refer  the  parties  to 
me,  as  an  old  friend  of  the  family.  I  could  not  fail  to  see  the 
exquisite  delicacy  which  had  suggested  this  proposal,  as  silently 
conclusive  of  everything  in  my  relation  to  them,  and  of  those 
around  them.  There  was  no  difficulty  in  the  case  referred  to 
me.  The  parties  generously  accepted  my  recommendation,  and 
were  reconciled.  A  day  or  two  after  I  had  the  pleasure  of 
meeting  them,  and  the  other  gentlemen  of  the  neighbourhood, 
at  dinner  with  the  General  and  Mrs.  Blair  in  the  hotel. 

"  Oh  !  how  freely  I  breathed  the  air  on  the  following  morning, 

21 


482  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

when  I  hastened  to  the  private  walks  of  Dunskey,  on  which 
for  six  years  I  never  had  set  foot.  When  I  came  in  sight  of 
ray  old  favourite  walk  in  the  glen,  I  felt  it  needful  to  lie  down 
in  the  grassy  slope,  and  to  relieve  my  full  heart  by  a  flood  of 
tears  and  thankfulness  to  God.  But  even  then  I  did  not  know 
how  truly  the  change  for  which  I  gave  thanks  was  a  work  of 
grace.  Nor  did  I  know  this  till,  on  the  General's  death,  about 
a  year  after,  his  widow  came  to  secure  some  pictures  and  other 
things  left  to  her.  I  had  some  sad  but  blessed  interviews  with 
her  in  the  half-dismantled  and  desolate  apartments  of  Dunskey, 
when  she  was  weeping  her  eyes  out,  in  painting  from  memory 
a  likeness  of  her  departed  husband,  which,  as  one  well  qualified 
to  judge  said  to  me,  no  one  but  a  wife  could  have  produced. 
I  tlien  learned  that  he  had  died  blessedly  in  closest  fellowship 
with  a  godly  clergyman  of  the  Church  of  England  in  whom  he 
delighted. 

"I  could  have  no  doubt  that  she  had  given  herself  to  the 
Lord's  service.  On  her  return  to  London,  her  special  interest 
was  in  a  provision  for  the  Sabbath  comfort  and  spiritual  wel- 
fare of  girls  engaged  in  warehouses  and  other  establishments. 
They  were  provided  for  by  their  employers  during  the  week, 
but  were  left  to  shift  for  themselves  on  the  Sabbath.  With  the 
aid  of  Christian  friends  whom  she  engaged  in  her  scheme,  she 
secured,  in  various  parts  of  London,  accommodation  to  which 
girls  might  be  invited,  and  might  enjoy  the  order  and  privilege 
of  godly  families  ;  morning  and  evening  services  being  provided 
for  them.  About  this  scheme  and  its  progress,  she  wrote  to  me 
freely.  Her  labours  in  visiting,  inquiring,  and  arranging  for  it, 
must  have  been  very  great.  A  friend  of  mine  calling  on  Mr. 
Nisbet,  the  well-known  Christian  bookseller,  asked  him  if  he 
knew  Mrs.  Hunter  Blair,  when  he  answered,  '  O,  yes ;  she  was 
here  just  a  little  ago.  She  is  one  of  the  most  devoted  Christian 
workers  in  London.'  Dr.  Merle  D'Aubignd,  of  Geneva,  took  a 
great  interest  in  her  woik.  In  a  letter  to  me  she  apologised  for 
delay,  saying  that  she  had  been  so  much  engaged ;  that,  having 
received  a  letter  from  Dr.  Merle  D'Aubign^,  at  same  time  with 
mine,  she  was  answering  both  for  the  same  day's  post.  It  was  her 
last  letter  to  me.     No  one  could  tell  me  of  her  last  houis ;  but, 


PEEJUDICES  EEMOVED.  483 

I  know  that,  having  passed  through  the  society  of  the  Court  in 
India,  and  through  the  society  of  artists  in  Eome,  she  gave  up 
all  to  win  poor,  neglected  girls  to  Christ ;  and  that,  after  having 
at  one  time  manifested  such  disgust  at  the  Free  Church  as  drove 
her  and  her  husband  from  their  home  at  Dunskey,  she  died  a 
member  of  the  Free  Church,  under  the  pastorate  of  Mr. 
Alexander,  at  Chelsea,  In  noting  this  last  fact,  however,  I  feel 
persuaded  that  churchism  had  nothing  to  do  with  it ;  but  no 
one  can  mark  the  fact,  as  compared  with,  its  antecedents,  with- 
out seeing  in  it  a  clear  illustration  of  that  new  life  in  which  old 
things  are  passed  away,  and  behold  all  things  have  become 
new."  * 

There  were  many  tokens  of  the  goodness  of  God  to  the  Free 
Church  in  Disruption  times,  but  not  the  least  remarkable  was 
the  change  of  feeling  which  such  extracts  show.  Surely  we 
may  be  allowed  to  regard  these,  and  similar  incidents,  as  in 
some  measure  the  fulfilment  of  the  promise  that,  "  When  a  man's 
ways  please  the  Lord,  He  maketh  even  his  enemies  to  be  at 
peace  with  him." 

*  DLsr.  Mss.  Ixxsviii. 


484  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 


XXXIV.  Quoad  Sacra  Churches. 

There  was  one  class  of  conorrewations  whose  sacrifices  were 
keenly  felt  at  the  Disruption — those  in  which  the  people,  after 
building  their  own  churches,  were  expelled  from  them  by  force 
of  law.  On  leaving  the  Establishment,  it  was  well  understood 
that  the  old  parish  churches  which  the  State  had  provided  must 
be  given  up,  but  it  was  a  different  thing  when  men  came  to  be 
deprived  of  buildings  which  they  had  themselves  erected  and 
paid  for. 

A  story  is  told  of  a  shrewd  old  Scotchman  during  last  century, 
who  on  hearing  any  one  praised  as  a  very  good  man,  used  always 
to  ask,  "  Have  you  ever  had  any  dealings  with  him  about 
money  ? "  That  he  considered  to  be  the  real  test ;  and  cer- 
tainly in  the  case  of  these  churches  at  the  Disruption,  it  yielded 
some  rather  remarkable  results. 

During  the  reign  of  Moderatism,  certain  Chapels  of  Ease,  as 
they  were  called,  had  been  erected  in  different  parts  of  the 
country,  but  it  had  been  done  by  the  people  under  great  diffi- 
culties— the  heritors  and  the  parish  ministers  being  usually 
opposed  to  it. 

On  this  point  Lord  Cockburn  speaks  with  authority  : — 

"  I  was  counsel  for  several  years  in  all  the  chapel  cases  before 
the  General  Assembly,  and  can  attest  that  what  was  'professed 
by  the  Moderates  was  that  they  had  no  dislike  to  chapels,  but 
what  was  b'uly  felt  and  privately  avowed  was  that  they  would 
much  rather  have  a  Roman  Catholic  Chapel  than  a  Chapel  of 
Ease  in  their  parishes."  * 

"  The  very  first  time,"  Dr.  Begg  says,  "  I  ever  was  in  the  old 
Assembly  place  of  meeting  in  St.  Giles',  I  witnessed  one  of  the 
*  Journal,  i.  p.  342. 


QUOAD  SACRA  CHURCHES.  485 

last  cases  of  disputed  quoad  sacra  churches.  I  remember 
very  well  forcing  myself  into  that  small,  dark,  cramped  place, 
and  seeing  an  old  minister,  who  admitted  that  there  was  a  popu- 
lation of  6000  in  his  parish,  resisting  most  vigorously  an 
attempt  by  the  people  to  have  a  Chapel  of  Ease  erected."  * 

Such  resistance  was  not  easily  overcome ;  and  during  the 
hundred  years  which  ended  in  1834  there  were  only  about  sixty- 
three  of  these  chapels  built,  all  of  them  being  left  without  Kirk- 
Sessions,  and  their  ministers  without  a  seat  in  the  Presbytery. 

The  year  1834,  however,  marked  the  ascendency  of  the 
evangelical  party,  and  a  new  era  began.  At  once  the  chapels 
were  taken  out  of  their  false  position,  and  made  parish  churches 
quoad  sacra.  The  meaning  of  the  change  was,  that  a  parish  was 
assigned  to  what  were  formerly  chapels — a  district  within  which 
ministers  and  elders  might  work  for  the  spiritual  good  of  the 
people.  The  territorial  principle  on  which  Dr.  Chalmers  laid  such 
stress  was  thus  made  to  take  effect,  and  the  moment  this  was  done 
he  felt  himself  free  to  begin  the  grand  Church  Extension  move- 
ment, on  which  his  heart  had  long  been  set.  Aided  by  a  band 
of  able  coadjutors,  he  traversed  Scotland,  and  roused  the 
country.  It  had  taken  100  years  to  get  sixty- three  chapels 
built,  but,  at  the  close  of  one  year's  work,  he  was  able  to  tell 
the  Assembly  of  1835  that  a  sum  of  £65,626  had  been  raised, 
and  sixty-two  additional  churches  had  been  built  or  were  in 
progress,  to  meet  the  spiritual  wants  of  destitute  localities. 
Soon,  the  turmoil  of  the  Ten  Years'  Conflict  began,  but  he 
held  on  his  course  notwithstanding,  and  by  the  end  of  1841 
it  was  found  that  upwards  of  200  new  churches  had  been  pro- 
vided, at  a  cost  of  more  than  £300,000 — a  noble  work,  nobly 
carried  out. 

But  then,  in  1843,  the  question  arose,  What  was  to  be  done 
with  all  this  property  ?  Both  parties  having  contributed  to  it, 
ought  it  not  on  some  fair  principle  to  be  equitably  divided  be- 
tween them  after  the  Disruption  had  taken  place  ? 

The  two  Churches  indeed  might  go  to  law,  but  it  was  repre- 
sented that  this  would  be  an  unseemly  thing,  injurious  to  reli- 
gion, and  that  the  better  course  would  be  to  have  the  question 
*  Blue  Book,  1847,  p.  25. 


486  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISKUPTION. 

submitted  to  some  fair-minded  laymen  chosen  by  each  of  the 
parties,  who  could  hardly  fail  to  find  a  scheme  of  equitable 
adjustment. 

By  the  Establishment,  these  proposals  were  rejected, — they 
t70uld  have  the  law  enforced  in  all  its  rigour.  In  the  state  of 
mind  in  which  the  Judges  on  the  bench  then  were,  the  result 
could  easily  be  foreseen.  Lord  Cockburn  has  spoken  strongly 
of  the  bias  under  which  they  acted.  Legal  grounds  of  course 
were  found,  and  the  whole  property  raised  by  the  exertions 
of  Dr.  Chalmers  was  wrested  from  him  and  his  friends. 

The  chief  reason  alleged  by  the  Establishment  in  defence  of 
this  line  of  action  was  that  they  were  trustees,  and  must  take 
all  that  the  law  gave,  not  being  entitled  to  do  what  a  private  in- 
dividual might  do.  "We  all  know,"  Dr.  Begg  said  in  reply, 
"the  theory  of  a  corporate  conscience,  which,  I  understand,  was 
described  by  Lord  Thurlow  as  having  neither  a  heart  to  be 
touched,  nor  a  conscience  to  feel,  nor  a  back  to  be  scourged." 
But  surely  it  was  strange  that  a  Christian  Church,  in  dealing 
with  another  Christian  Church,  should  refuse  to  be  guided  by 
those  principles  of  honour  which  ought  to  guide  a  private  in- 
dividual in  money  matters. 

There  were  among  the  members  of  the  Establishment  some 
who  were  staggered  by  such  considerations.  Even  M'PhaiVs 
Edinburgh  Journal,  the  bold  opponent  of  the  Free  Church,  is 
doubtful  whether  the  Establishment  were  acting  rightly  in  re- 
taining these  chapels.  "  Although,  by  some  narrow  legal  tech- 
nicalities they  should  continue  in  her  possession,  how  could 
the  blessing  of  God  be  expected  to  rest  on  a  Church  unright- 
eously extended  and  aggrandised  ? "  * 

On  the  part  of  the  Free  Church,  there  was  a  deep  sense  of 
the  injustice  of  such  proceedings. 

One  reason  was,  that  by  far  the  greater  part  of  the  money 
which  had  built  these  churches  had  been  contributed  by  those 
who  afterwards  joined  the  Free  Church.  None  knew  so  well  as 
Dr.  Chalmers,  for  it  was  he  who  had  raised  it,  and  his  estimate 
was  distinctly  stated.  The  churches  from  which  the  Court  of 
Session  has  ejected  us  were  built — I  do  not  think  I  over- 
*  Blue  Book,  1847,  p.  222. 


QUOAD  SACEA  CHURCHES.  487 

estimate  it  when  I  say  to  the  extent  of  seven-eighths — with  our 
money.* 

It  so  happened  that  a  testing  case  occurred  at  Dundee,  which 
put  Dr.  Chalmers's  opinion  to  the  proof,  and  showed  who  were 
the  real  builders  of  these  quoad  sacra  churches.  Just  on  the 
eve  of  the  Disruption,  the  friends  there  were  about  to  erect  a 
mariners'  church,  and  the  money,  amounting  to  £1000,  had 
been  subscribed  and  paid  in,  but  the  building  had  not  been 
commenced.  After  May,  1843,  it  was  resolved  to  return  the 
money,  -f-  to  the  subscribers,  leaving  such  of  them  as  chose  to 
take  steps  for  the  same  object  in  connection  with  the  Free 
Church.  The  result  was  that  of  the  £1000,  upwards  of  £900 
was  again  subscribed  and  paid,  and  the  building  was  proceeded 
with  on  the  new  footing.  Had  the  work  been  begun  a  little 
earlier,  the  law  would  have  deprived  them  both  of  the  money 
and  the  building. 

At  BroomknoU,  Airdrie,  the  same  thing  was  shown  in  a 
different  way.  A  legal  deed  had  been  drawn  out  in  the  usual 
form  settling  the  property,  but  fortunately  the  last  step  had  not 
been  taken,  the  constitution  had  not  been  extracted.  The 
congregation  were  able  to  do  with  their  own  what  they  chose, 
they  retained  it  for  themselves,  and  attached  it  to  the  Free 
Church.  If  the  titles  had  been  completed,  the  Establishment 
would  have  had  the  power  of  seizing  the  church,  and  it  would 
have  gone  like  the  rest.;): 

These  cases  which  actually  occurred  may  be  held  as  showing 
approximately  how  the  matter  stood  in  other  localities.  Per- 
haps it  was  the  consciousness  of  this  which  made  the  Establish- 
ment so  unwilling  to  have  the  subscription  lists  looked  into  with 
a  view  to  some  equitable  arrangement.  But  many  members  of 
the  Free  Church,  who  knew  well  where  the  money  had  come 
from,  felt  all  the  more  keenly  the  treatment  to  which  they  were 
subjected. 

There  was  a  still  stronger  ground,  however,  on  which  they 
felt  themselves  aggrieved. 

The  civil  courts  decided  that  the  quoad  sacra  churches  must 

*  Report  on  Sites,  ill.  p.  143,  q.  6480. 
t  Blue  Book,  1844,  p.  28.  X  Parker  Mss. 


488  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

be  reduced  to  the  position  of  chapels  of  ease,  and  the  Establish- 
ment acquiesced.  But  the  money  which  built  them  had  been 
raised  on  condition  that  they  should  be  churches,  not  chapels, — 
churches  quoad  sacra.  Men  felt  strongly  the  wrong  that  was 
done  in  keeping  the  money,  and  evading  the  express  condition 
on  which  it  had  been  paid. 

The  case  of  the  new  Glasgow  churches  will  show  how  the 
question  stood.  A  society  had  been  formed  for  church  exten- 
sion in  the  city,  and  it  was  one  of  the  fundamental  articles  under 
which  the  society  was  constituted  that  the  money  should  be 
raised  only  on  condition  that  the  buildings  should  be  churches 
quoad  sacra,  and  not  chapels.  Under  this  stipulation  the  sub- 
scriptions were  paid,  and  the  work  went  on. 

Now  what  the  Free  Church  felt  was,  that  afterwards,  when  the 
conditions  could  not  be  carried  out,  owing  to  the  civil  courts  bar- 
ring the  way,  the  money  in  all  fairness  ought  to  be  returned  to  the 
subscribers,  or  at  least  that  they  had  a  claim  for  some  equitable 
settlement,  by  way  of  compromise. 

There  is  a  yet  stronger  point  in  the  case,  as  a  legal  friend 
suggests — the  money  was  given  not  only  on  condition  that  the 
chapels  should  be  made  churches,  but  that  they  should  be  so  by 
the  authority  inherent  in  the  Church  herself.  That  was  in  the 
view  of  the  subscribers.  They  paid  their  money  to  the  Church 
which  claimed  to  do  this  in  her  own  right,  and  did  it.  The 
money  is  retained  by  a  Church  which  owns  that  she  has  no  such 
power  or  right  as  that  on  the  faith  of  which  the  subscribers 
acted.     Is  that  righteously  done  ? 

The  result,  however,  was  that  the  whole  of  these  twenty 
churches,  and  many  others  in  the  same  position,  were  seized  by 
the  Establishment  as  chapels  of  ease,  and  all  proposals  for 
an  equitable  adjustment  were  rejected. 

What  was  felt  about  this  at  the  time  may  be  seen  from  the 
statement  of  Dr.  Burns,  in  whose  parish  one  of  these  cases  oc- 
curred. "  The  Banton  Church  (Kilsyth)  was  for  some  years  a 
very  cherished  object  of  proud  regard.  How  is  the  gold  become 
dim  !  Oh,  how  changed  is  the  view  in  that  direction.  Doubt- 
less had  it  been  foreseen  that  the  onward  march  of  the  Esta- 
blished Church  was  to  be  arrested,  and  the  quoad  sacra  system 


QUOAD  SACRA  CHURCHES.  489 

ruthlessly  broken  up,  one  stone  would  never  have  been  laid  upon 
another."  * 

"  A  few  years  before  the  Disruption,  the  Gaelic  Church  of 
Saltcoats  was  built  by  subscription  at  a  cost  of  nearly  £1000. 
More  than  half  of  this  sura  was  collected  by  a  blind  gentleman 
— Alexander  M'Dougall,  Esq.,  Edinburgh — who,  hearing  of  the 
difficulties  of  the  poor  Highlanders  (they  had  only  been  able  to 
subscribe  £71),  most  generously  came  to  their  assistance,  and, 
groping  his  way  through  the  length  and  breadth  of  Scotland, 
raised  for  them  the  sura  of  £539,  8s.  lOd.,  while,  in  addition  to 
this,  the  Kev.  Mr.  M'Millan,  Kilraorie,  Arran,  gave  out  of  his 
own  purse  £40.  At  the  Disruption,  Mr.  M'Dougall  and  Mr. 
M'Millan  both  joined  the  Free  Church,  as  also  did  the  congre- 
gation almost  to  a  man,  along  with  the  Rev.  Mr.  Hamilton,  their 
minister.  For  sorae  years  the  Highlanders  were  allowed  to  remain 
in  possession  of  their  church,  but  at  length  the  Established 
Presbytery  invoked  the  strong  arm  of  the  law,  and  the  poor 
Highlanders  were  cast  out — two  members  only  remaining — and 
the  fruit  of  Mr.  M'Dougali's  labours  is  now  a  parish  church.  It 
is  right  to  add,  that  when  this  was  first  proposed,  Hugh  Weir, 
Esq.  of  Kirkhall,  himself  a  member  of  the  Established  Church, 
sought  to  shield  the  poor  man's  ewe  lamb,  indignantly  saying, 
'Take  a  church,  built  in  this  way,  by  subscription  !  "We  are 
not  so  poor  that  we  cannot  build  one  ourselves — let  the  poor 
Highlanders  keep  their  church.' "  -)- 

The  church  of  Sheuchan,  Wigtownshire,  may  be  taken  as  an- 
other example.  It  was  built  in  1840,  at  an  expense  of  £1780, 
chiefly  contributed  by  Sir  Andrew  Agnew  of  Lochnaw,  Major- 
General  M'Dowall,  C.B.,  and  their  personal  friends.  A  congre- 
gation of  humble  but  respectable  hearers  had  been  gathered. 
At  the  close  of  1844  legal  proceedings  were  taken  by  the  Estab- 
lishment, and  they  were  dispossessed.  In  handing  over  the 
keys,  the  two  gentlemen,  "  the  originators  and  chief  promoters," 
entered  a  formal  protest  to  the  effect  that  the  building  was 
now  to  be  devoted  to  purposes  "  diverse  to  what  they  in- 
tended "  when  they  gave  their  money.     The  Presbytery,  how- 

*  Disr.  Mss.  xxix.  p.  21. 
t  Statement  by  Rev.  D.  Landsborough,  Kihiiainock. 


490  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

ever,  got  the  keys,  and  the  only  use  they  could  make  of  them 
was  to  lock  up  the  church  and  lock  out  the  people  to  whom  it 
rightfully  belonged.  The  congregation,  without  one  solitary 
exception,  went  along  with  their  minister,  and  got  temporary 
accommodation  at  a  neighbouring  mill. 

It  seemed  strange  that  the  Establishment  should  grasp  at 
churches  for  which  they  really  had  no  use.  At  Haddington,  for 
example,  it  was  not  pleasant  to  see,  alongside  of  the  Free 
Church,  the  former  buildino;  from  which  the  cong-regation  were 
expelled  standing  for  twenty  years  and  more  with  its  doors 
locked  and  windows  broken. 

Trinity  Church,  Aberdeen,  one  of  the  old  chapels  of  ease,  was 
long  known  in  the  city  for  the  warm-hearted  devoted  congrega- 
tion which  filled  its  pews.  The  Rev.  D.  Simpson,  their  minister 
— one  of  the  gentlest  men  who  ever  took  part  in  religious  contro- 
versy— was  summoned  to  the  bar  of  the  Court  of  Session  for 
breach  of  interdict.  In  his  farewell  sermon  at  the  Disruption, 
he  "  spoke  in  generous  and  affectionate  terms  to  the  few  who 
remained  behind  him,"  adhering  to  the  Establishment.  The 
changed  aspect  of  the  building,  however,  after  he  left,  was  too 
much  for  them.  "  They  were  soon  scattered,  and  came  to 
nought,  and  old  Trinity  Church  was  transformed  into  a  dilapi- 
dated structure  as  if  to  remind  the  Establishment  of  the  grie- 
vous wrong  they  had  committed."  * 

The  more  respected  members  of  the  Established  Church 
must  not  be  held  responsible  for  much  that  was  done,  but  there 
were  too  many  cases  in  which  these  congregations  were  not 
only  expelled  from  their  churches,  but  it  was  carried  out  in  such 
a  way  as  to  make  the  expulsion  needlessly  irritating  and  offensive. 

Sometimes  legal  expenses  were  unfairly  run  up.  At  Lybster, 
Caithness,  the  whole  population  of  2600  adhered  to  the  Eree 
Church,  with  the  exception  of  six  heads  of  families,  and  these  had 
not  contributed  to  the  building  of  the  church  "  above  £5  [in  all], 
if  so  much."  When  the  Established  Presbytery  took  action,  they 
did  so  without  notice.  "A  warrant "  came  down  from  the  Court 
of  Session  demanding  the  church.  "  This  course  was  quite  unne- 
cessary, as  we  never  intended  to  dispute  the  case,  nor  said  that 
*  Parker  Mss.,  Rev.  D.  Simpson. 


QUOAD  SACRA  CHURCHES.  491 

we  would,  had  the  church  been  claimed  by  the  Presbytery.  We 
tlierefore  made  no  appearance  in  court,  but  were  subjected  to 
all  the  expenses  incurred,  amounting  to  £20.  This  was  the 
most  cruel  part  of  the  whole,  and  might  well  have  been  spared ; 
but  it  was  only  of  a  piece  with  measures  adopted  elsewhere  by 
the  Establishment."  * 

At  Blairingone,  in  the  Presbytery  of  Auchterarder,'  the  same 
thing  was  done  with  some  aggravating  circumstances.  On  Satur- 
day evening,  17th  February,  1844,  the  Rev.  Mr.  Noble  and  seven 
of  the  nine  managers  of  his  church  were  served  with  an  inter- 
dict. No  attempt  was  made  to  turn  out  the  congregation  until 
the  stormy  weather  set  in ;  and  the  communion  was  fixed  for 
the  Sabbath  following.  At  the  same  time  an  interdict,  with 
the  attendant  annoyance  and  expense,  was  altogether  uncalled 
for,  as  in  December  last  the  Presbytery  were  officially  informed 
that,  while  the  congregation  would  do  nothing  to  compromise 
their  right  to  the  building,  they  would  deliver  up  the  keys  if 
demanded.  .  .  .  The  sole  object  of  the  movement,  it  would 
seem,  was  to  inflict  trouble  and  expense  on  the  adherents  of  the 
Free  Church,  who,  with  few  exceptions,  embraced  the  whole 
population.-f- 

At  Ardoch,  Perthshire,  the  opposition  was  not  less  keen.  An 
interdict  had  been  obtained,  but  was  held  back  for  a  time. 
They  delayed  "  till  the  shortest  day  of  the  year  and  the  storms 
of  winter  before  they  cast  us  out.  '  Turn  them  oot !  Turn 
them  oot  in  the  sua',  and  they  will  soon  come  in !'  was  the  lan- 
guage of  ,  an  elder  who  left  the  Establishment  at  the  Dis- 
ruption, and  then  returned  into  it  in  the  month  of  August." 
"  For  three  Sabbaths  I  had  to  preach  in  the  open  field,  but  on 
the  fourth  we  found  shelter  in  a  wooden  shed.";}: 

In  using  the  forms  of  law,  a  favourite  device  was  to  obtain 
an  interdict,  and  suddenly  serve  it  without  warning  on  Satur- 
day evening,  so  as  to  take  minister  and  people  by  surprise.  It 
was  a  vexatious  proceeding,  which  went  on  for  years.  Judges 
who  had  never  cited  the  congregation,  or  heard  whether  they 

*  Parker  Mss.  Latheron,  pp.  9,  10. 

t  Witness  newspaper,  24th  February,  1844. 

1  Disr.  Mss.  xiii.  p.  5. 


492  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

had  a  word  to  say  in  their  own  behalf,  gave  their  decree;  and 
people  and  minister  found  on  a  Saturday  night  that  they  were 
to  be  houseless  on  the  morrow. 

A  curious  example  of  this  had  previously  occurred  at  Tain 
in  connection  with  the  old  parish  church  and  buryiiig-ground. 
"Under  the  evangelical  ministry  of  the  saintly  Dr.  C.  C. 
M'Intosh,  nearly  the  whole  population  of  the  town  and  parish 
of  Tain  joined  the  Free  Church  with  him  at  the  Disruption, 
leaving  only  a  handful  of  people  connected  with  the  Established 
Church. 

"  In  the  centre  of  the  town  stands  an  old  Romish  church, 
which  from  the  Reformation  had  been  used  as  the  Presbyterian 
parish  church,  until,  on  account  of  its  insufficiency  to  contain 
the  increased  population,  it  was  in  ]815  relinquished  for  a 
larger  new  church.  Surrounding  the  old  church  is  the  parish 
graveyard,  through  which  a  broad  footpath  ran ;  and  on  this 
path,  at  communion  seasons,  the  communion  table  of  the 
Gaelic  congregation — who  worshipped  without,  while  the  Eng- 
lish worshipped  within  the  church — was  wont  to  be  placed, 
the  congregation  being  seated  around  the  tent  in  the  church- 
yard. It  was  disused  for  this  purpose  after  1815,  sufficient 
^ound  being  provided  at  the  new  church  for  the  Gaelic  congre- 
gation ;  and  the  old  church  was  allowed  by  the  heritors  to  fall 
into  partial  ruin. 

"  The  Free  Church  had  no  difficulty  in  obtaining  a  site  in 
town  for  the  erection  of  a  church,  but  was  unprovided  with 
any  place  for  the  accommodation  of  the  out-door  Gaelic  con- 
gregation at  communion  times.  They,  therefore,  on  occasion 
of  the  two  summer  communions  following  the  Disruption, 
pitched  their  tent  in  the  old  churchyard,  wliere  many  genera- 
tions of  their  forefathers  sleep.  The  assembling  there  of  such 
large  congregations,  numbering  2000  to  8000  people  connected 
with  the  Free  Church,  was  distasteful  to  one  of  the  few  people, 
a  large  heritor,  who  still  adhered  to  the  Establishment ;  and  he, 
therefore,  resolved  to  dislodge  them,  and  that,  too,  in  circum- 
stances deliberately  calculated  to  embarrass  and  annoy.  Ac- 
cordingly, at  the  communion  in  July,  1845,  worship  was 
allowed  to  be  held  as  usual  undisturbed  on  the  Thursday,  Fri- 


QUOAD  SACRA  CHUECHES.  493 

day,  and  Saturday.  The  elders  had  placed  the  table,  and  made 
all  other  needful  arrangements  on  Saturday  evening  for  the 
service  of  the  approaching  Sabbath.  But  on  Saturday  night  a 
Sheriff's  interdict  was  served  at  this  heritor's  instance,  '  pro- 
hibiting the  Kev.  C.  C.  M'Intosh,  Free  Church  minister  of 
Tain  ;  his  coadjutors.  Rev.  Dr.  John  M'Donald,  Ferintosh  ;  Rev. 
David  Campbell,  Tarbat ;  Rev.  Gustavus  Aird,  Criech  ;  Rev. 
Simon  M'Lachlan,  Cawdor,  and  all  others  whomsoever,  from 
preaching  or  celebrating  the  Lord's  Supper  in  the  churchyard  of 
the  parish  surrounding  the  old  church.' 

"  The  plan  of  interdict  and  time  of  serving  it  were  well  chosen 
to  produce  the  utmost  inconvenience  to  the  congregation,  or  a 
breach  of  interdict  by  the  officiating  ministers.  But  a  pious 
widow  lady  in  the  town  had  in  her  possession  a  field  in  the 
immediate  neighbourhood  of  the  Free  Church,  which  she 
instantly  put  at  the  service  of  the  congregation,  thankful  for 
having  the  opportunity  of  thus  serving  the  Lord.  To  it  the 
tent  and  communion  table  were  instantly  transferred  late  on 
Saturday  night:  there  a  happy  communion  season  was  enjoyed 
on  the  Sabbath.  And  thus  the  malice  of  the  oppressor  only 
served — no  doubt,  to  his  great  disappointment — to  find  on  an 
emergency  a  more  convenient  site  for  the  worshippers.  An  old 
townsman,  in  speaking  of  this  event,  in  which  he  made  himself 
helpful  to  the  elders,  said  to  the  writer :  '  The  whole  town 
turned  out  as  one  man  when  the  interdict  became  known.  We 
swept  ofl"  tent,  table,  forms,  and  chairs  in  one  visit  to  the 
churchyard,  so  that  there  was  no  occasion  for  any  one  to  pay  a 
second  visit  to  it.'  And  it  was  for  ever  abandoned,  as  a  type  of 
Moderatism. 

"  So  little  has  the  state  of  matters  altered  as  to  the  return  of 
the  people  to  the  Established  Church  that,  when  an  assessment 
for  the  repair  of  the  ecclesiastical  buildings  was  laid  on  in  1877, 
amounting  to  £720,  of  this  there  was  paid  by  Established 
Church  lairds  and  feuars  the  sum  of  only  £12."  * 

Such  sudden  expulsions  seem  to  have  been  quite  common  in 
the  case  of  quoad  sacra  churches. 

On  Saturday,  24th  June,  1843,  the  Rev.  Angus  M'Bean, 
*  Disr.  Mss.  Ixix. 


494  ANNALS  OP  THE  DISRUPTION, 

Greenock,  was  interdicted  from  again  entering  his  pulpit , 
and  on  the  following  day  his  church  was  preached 
vacant.* 

On  the  4th  February,  1 844,  the  doors  of  St.  John's,  INIon- 
trose,  were  shut  against  the  congregation  by  interdict  obtained 
by  the  Presbytery  of  the  Establishment.  The  effect  was  to 
cast  out  a  congregation  of  1200  to  1400  people,  including  not  a 
few  of  the  leading  citizens,  in  the  midst  of  a  severe  snowstorm, 
and  without  warning,  t 

At  Strathaven  on  the  21st  July,  1843,  late  on  the  Saturday 
evening,  before  the  Sabbath  preparatory  to  the  dispensation  of 
the  sacrament,  the  pastor  was  stunned  by  receiving  a  letter 
requiring  him  either  to  give  up  the  possession  of  his  church  or 
to  submit  to  the  legal  consequences  of  the  refusal.  :j: 

At  Barrhead,  near  Paisley,  the  interdict  was  obtained  on  a 
Tuesday,  but  "  was  kept  up  and  served  only  on  Saturday  even- 
ing. The  congregation  was  accordingly  driven  out,  and  forced 
to  worship  in  the  open  air  for  three  months  in  sight  of  their  own 
church,  locked  up  and  empty." § 

But  the  most  remarkable  of  all  these  proceedings  was  a 
proposal  as  to  the  debt  on  the  buildings.  Free  Churchmen  had 
been  calling  out  for  some  equitable  division  of  the  property,  and 
it  occurred  to  some  friends  of  the  Establishment  that  the  best 
plan  would  be  to  give  Free  Churchmen  the  debt  to  pay,  while 
the  Established  Church  got  the  buildings  free.  This  was 
seriously  contemplated. 

At  Woodside,  Aberdeen,  there  was  a  debt  of  £1200,  and  the 
members  of  the  Establishment  "  wished  to  hold  the  managers 
[with  one  exception,  Free  Churchmen]  responsible,  avowing 
their  intention  of  seizing  the  building,  leaving  the  managers  to 
pay  its  liabilities."  1 1 

In  the  case  of  Belhaven  Church,  Dunbar,  there  was  a  debt  of 
£183,  for  which  an  elder  in  the  Free  Church  had  become  re- 

*  Par.  Mi<s.  Presb.  of  Greenock. 

t  Witness  newspaper,  14tli  February,  1844. 

X  Ibid.  21st  February,  1844. 

§  Free  Church  Mag.  iv.  p.  140. 

II  Disr.  Mss.  xxvii.  pp.  8,  9. 


QUOAD  SACRA  CHURCHES.  495 

sponsible.  The  Established  Presbytery  demanded  the  church, 
but  refused  to  acknowledf^e  the  debt.* 

There  was  a  beautiful  simplicity  in  tliis  arrangement  which 
seems  to  have  commended  itself  greatly  to  the  Established 
Church  in  different  parts  of  the  country.  At  last  the  matter 
was  actually  taken  into  Court.  The  public  had  come  to  believe 
that  any  kind  of  action  was  sure  to  be  successful  if,  only  it  was 
against  the  Free  Church,  and  the  then  Earl  of  Glasgow,  along 
with  the  Presbytery  of  Paisley,  acting  apparently  on  this  belief, 
took  up  the  case  of  Barrhead  Church,  Paisley.  They  appeared 
in  Court  pleading  that  the  debt  (£1313)  should  be  separated 
from  the  property,  and  the  property  given  to  them  free,  leaving 
the  debt  to  others.  But  Lord  Ivory,  before  whom  the  action 
came,  made  short  work  of  their  plea.  The  property  and  the  debt 
on  it  must  go  together.  If  the  Earl  wanted  the  one  he  must  take 
the  other ;  and  so  that  scheme  of  division  fell  to  the  ground.-f* 

The  result  was  that  a  good  many  of  these  churches  were 
saved  by  the  debt  on  them,  and  were  retained  for  the  people. 
The  parties  who  had  lent  the  money  foreclosed ;  the  property 
was  put  up  for  sale,  bought  by  the  congregation,  and  attached  to 
the  Free  Church. 

Union  Church,  Aberdeen,  for  example,  had  at  the  Disruption 
a  communion  roll  of  1000  members,  of  whom  900,  with  all  the 
officebearers,  joined  the  Free  Church,  along  with  Mr.  Allan,  their 
minister.  There  was  a  debt  of  £1200.  The  large  church  soon 
presented  a  deserted  and  empty  appearance  with  seldom  more 
than  thirty  hearers  in  it.  It  was  sold  by  public  roup,  and 
bought  for  the  Free  Church  by  the  congregation,  who  gladly 
returned  to  worship  within  the  old  walls.  There  were  similar 
results  at  Bonaccord  and  Woodside,  Aberdeen  ;  St.  John's,  Mon- 
trose ;  Hope  Street,  Glasgow  ;  and  in  not  a  few  other  cases  over 
the  country,  congregations  considered  themselves  fortunate 
when  there  was  debt  on  their  churches. 

And  yet  cases  did  occur  where,  in  spite  of  Lord  Ivory's  de- 
cision, the  property  went  to  the  Establishment,  while  the  Free 
Churchmen  had  to  meet  the  obligations. 

*  Free  Church  Mag.  iv.  p.  142. 
t  Decision  given  19th  Jul}',  1845. —  Witnesx  newspaper,  Snth  Jnly,  1845. 


496  ANNALS  OP  THE  DISRUPTION. 

A  mild  example  of  this  is  given  by  Dr.  Begg  : — 

There  was  a  chapel  not  far  from  Edinburgh,  which  was 
relinquished  not  long  after  the  Disruption,  in  coimection  with 
which  a  spire  had  been  built,  and  a  bell  hung  thereon.  The 
spire  had  been  paid  for,  but  the  bell  had  not.  By-and-by  an 
account  came  to  one  of  the  members  of  the  Free  Church  for  the 
bell,  with  an  intimation  that  he  must  pay  for  it ;  and,  at  the 
same  time,  he  was  told  he  could  not  remove  it,  because  it 
was  a  fixture.  In  point  of  fact,  the  worthy  man  had  to  pay  £16, 
and  two  of  the  elders  an  equal  sum,  as  the  price  of  the  bell, 
after  they  had  left  the  church.* 

But  there  were  more  serious  cases.  A  church  was  built 
in  Stirling  by  the  indefatigable  exertions  of  Dr.  Beith,  who, 
along  with  other  managers,  undertook  the  liabilities  of  the 
erection,  on  condition  of  being  relieved  by  having  the  seat-rents 
for  thirty  years.  When  the  Disruption  came,  these  seat-rents 
were  worth  precisely  nothing  at  all,  and  Dr.  Beith  was  obliged, 
with  other  managers,  to  pay  the  debt — his  share  was 
£200,  five  other  members  of  the  Free  Church  losing  similar 
sums — out  of  his  own  pocket ;  the  Establishment  at  the  same 
time  taking  from  them  the  church.  It  was  remarked  at  the 
time  that,  whatever  law  there  might  be  in  this  case,  there  was 
great  injustice.-j- 

In  the  case  of  St.  Leonards,  Lanark,  there  was  a  considerable 
debt  on  the  building.  The  congregation  off"ered  at  once  to 
vacate  it,  if  the  adherents  of  the  Establishment  would  relieve 
them  of  the  burden.  But  they  had  taken  up  the  favourite  idea 
of  that  time :  "  they  insisted  that  the  members  of  the  Free 
Church  should  both  pay  the  debt  and  give  up  the  property." 
The  matter  hung  in  suspense  for  two  years,  causing  great 
inconvenience  to  the  Free  Church  congregation.  After  Lord 
Ivory's  decision,  the  Establishment  took  different  ground, 
"  claiming  the  funds  which  they  (the  Free  Church)  might  raise 
in  St.  Leonards."  The  congregation  decided  at  once  to  leave, 
purchased  and  enlarged  another  church  belonging  to  the  Old 
Light  body,  and  there  they  continued  to  worship.^ 

*  Blue  Book,  1848,  p.  288. 
t  Ibid.  1847,  p.  222.  I  Parker  Mss.,  Presb.  of  Lanark. 


QUOAD  SACKA  CHURCHES.  497 

At  Arbroath,  however,  the  question  which  had  aioparently 
been  evaded  at  Lanark,  came  up  in  another  form.  In  Lady- 
loan,  the  minister  Mr.  Leslie,  and  all  his  managers  with  one 
exception,  adhered  to  the  Free  Church.  It  was  not  till  1845 
that  the  building  was  claimed,  and  the  moment  the  Establish- 
ment moved,  they  at  once  gave  it  up.  Then,  in  1848,  an  action 
was  raised  before  the  Court  of  Session,  in  which  the  Establish- 
ment claimed  the  whole  seat-rents,  collections,  &c.,  during  the 
time  the  congregation  were  meeting  in  the  church  from  1843  to 
1845.  These  sums  had  all  been  expended  for  the  purposes  for 
which  the  people  gave  the  money — minister's  stipend,  pre- 
centor's salary,  &c., — and  yet  the  claim  was  that  they  should  be 
refunded  to  the  Establishment.  After  a  lengthened  litigation, 
the  result  was  that  the  poor  Free  Churchmen  were  glad  to 
submit  to  a  decision  which  cost  them  £157,  8s.  9d.,  besides 
interest  and  modified  expenses.* 

How  the  ministers  of  the  Free  Church  in  those  days  dreaded 
the  Court  of  Session,  and  shrank  from  it,  may  be  seen  from 
many  of  the  records.  In  the  words  of  Dr.  Beith — "Justice, 
according  to  our  impressions,  had  laid  aside  the  band — the 
emblem  of  impartiality."  "  Only  at  rare  intervals  has  anything 
of  this  sort  been  known.  But  at  the  time  to  which  I  refei 
we  had  fallen  on  evil  days."  "f 

The  surrender  of  Lady  Glenorchy's  Church,  Edinburgh,  was 
one  of  the  most  mortifying  incidents  in  the  whole  history  of 
these  cases.  The  distinguished  Christian  lady  whose  name  it 
bears  built  the  chapel  in  1774,  much  against  the  will  of  the 
old  Moderates,  whose  opposition  was  with  difficulty  overcome 
by  Dr.  Erskine,  Sir  H.  Moncreiff,  and  others.  The  highest 
legal  skill  was  employed  by  Lady  Glenorchy  to  secure  the 
building  against  that  party  in  the  future ;  she  called  in  the  aid 
of  Mr.  Crosbie,  "  the  original  of  the  skilful  lawyer  in  '  Guj 
Mannering,'  and  so  securely  had  he  drawn  the  deeds  that  it 
required  an  Act  of  Parliament  to  set  them  aside."  In  an  evil 
hour  this  was  done.  The  congregation  whom  Dr.  Jones 
gathered  round  him  were  devotedly  attached  to  the  cause  of 

*  Parker  Mss.,  Presb.  of  Arbroath. 
+  Disr.  Memories,  pp.  257-8, 

2K 


498  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

evangelism.  It  was  not  to  be  borne  that  when  other  chapels 
were  raised  to  the  status  of  parish  churches,  they  should  be  left 
behind.  A  private  Act  of  Parliament  was  got — an  expensive 
proceeding — and  the  old  chapel  took  its  place  with  the  rest,  and 
shared  their  fate,  falling  into  the  hands  of  that  party  from  which 
-it  had  been  the  great  wish  of  the  foundress  to  preserve  it. 
When  the  time  came  for  the  people  to  leave  the  building,  round 
which  many  tender  memories  gathered,  it  turned  out  by  a  strange 
coincidence  that  the  place  was  required  for  a  railway  station, 
and  the  church  had  to  be  swept  away.  Lady  Glenorchy  had 
been  buried  within  the  walls,  and  before  they  were  actually 
pulled  down,  it  was  resolved  to  have  the  coffin  lifted  and 
removed  to  the  new  building  which  was  to  bear  the  name  of 
Free  Lady  Glenorchy 's.  The  incident  has  been  graphically 
described  by  Hugh  Miller,  and  by  another  gifted  writer,  who 
knew  how  to  embalm  in  verse  the  impressions  of  such  a 
scene.  The  following  extracts  will  enable  the  reader  to  judge 
how  this  was  done  :  — 

"Is  it  night,  or  is  it  morning, 

In  the  city's  silent  streets  1 
Feebly  strives  the  stagnant  dawning 

With  the  darkness  which  it  meets. 
Labour's  self  is  scarce  astir, — 

Ghostly  shows  each  living  thing  ; 
Seems  as  day  oppressed  were 

'Neath  some  evil  angel's  wing. 

"  Silence — silence — deep  and  lonely, 

In  the  once  resounding  place  ; 
Here  and  there  a  dim  lamp  only 

Shows  and  magnifies  the  space. 
Oh  !  the  solemn  recollections, 

Clinging  round  the  desert  walls  ! 
Oh  !  the  dear  and  deep  affections, 

Every  hallowed  spot  recalls. 

"  But  a  hollow  sound  is  ringing 

On  the  pavement  wide  and  bare  ; 

■Manhood  all  his  strength  is  bringing 

To  upheave  the  flagstones  there. 


QUOAD  SACKA  CHUKCHES,  499 

'  Few  and  sad  a  band  is  meeting 

Here,  where  thousands  met  before  ; 
Brief  their  speech,  and  still  their  greeting, 

And  their  eyes  are  brimming  o'er. 
Clad  as  mourners  for  the  dead, 

Yet  not  theirs  a  kindi-ed  woe  ;  — 
Guardians  of  an  honoured  head. 

Sepulchred  long  years  ago. 

"  Now  the  ponderous  stone  is  raised,- 

Now  the  light  hath  flashed  beneatli, 
And  the  living  eye  hath  gazed 

On  the  secret  pomp  of  death  ! 
Coronet  and  scutcheon  there, 

Gathering  unseemly  rust ; 
HeedfuUy  the  burden  bear, — 

Mouldering  case  of  crumbling  dust ! 


"  My  God,  my  Saviour  !  unto  Thee 

This  my  humble  gift  is  given  ; 
Work  Thy  goodwill  in  it — in  me, 

And  make  it  as  the  porch  of  Heaven  ! 
Thus  prayed,  with  many  an  instant  prayer, 

One  of  Jehovah's  chosen  few  ; 
Not  many  such  on  earth  there  are, 

For  she  was  wise  and  noble  too  ! 

"  And  when,  ere  life's  brief  prime  was  o'er. 

She  bowed  in  death  her  gracious  head, 
'  Lay  me  within  that  Chapel  floor — 

I  shall  sleep  sweetly  there,'  she  said  ! 
They  scooped  the  rock — they  graved  the  stone — 

They  laid  her  body  down  to  rest ; 
And  thousands  were  bereaved  for  one 

So  early  called, — so  early  blessed. 

"  But  still  that  lady's  prayer  was  heard, 

And  still  the  showers  of  blessing  fell, 
And  rich  the  increase  of  the  Word, 

Within  the  House  she  loved  so  well. 
And  one  whom  she  had  planted  there 

In  youth's  strong  promise,  stood  and  fed 
Her  people,  with  his  snow  white  hair 

A  crown  of  elorv  round  his  head. 


500  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

"  Often  threatened,  often  taunted, 

Week  by  week  they  met  once  more  ; 

It  may  be  their  foes  were  daunted 
By  the  dust  beneath  the  floor ; 

But  at  length  the  summons  came. 


'~  Tears  were  shed,  and  hearts  were  breaking, 

With  a  grief  no  tears  can  tell  ; 
Life-long  memories  were  waking, 

In  that  brief  but  last  farewell. 
Winter's  snows  were  falling  fast, 

Some  were  old,  and  many  poor  ; 
Forth  the  congregation  passed, 

And  oppression  barred  the  door. 

"  Silence — silence — lonely — deep, 
In  the  desecrated  spot  ; 
They  have  seized  who  cannot  keep  : 
Is  the  prayer  of  faith  forgot  ? 


"  Pass  we  on,  the  mist  is  breaking, 
Gloom  and  darkness  roll  away  ; 
Each  the  precious  burden  taking 
Bears  the  cofiiu  on  its  way."  t 

t   Witness  newspaper,  29th  January,  1845. 


THE  MISSIONARIES.  501 


XXXV.  The  Missionaries. 

At  the  Disruption,  the  Church  had  a  staff  of  twenty  Mission- 
aries employed  in  the  foreign  field  among  Jews  and  Gentiles, 
and  it  was  a  question  of  deep  interest  how  they  would  act  ifter 
the  great  breach  had  taken  place.  The  Church  which  sent  them 
out  had  been  broken  in  two — to  which  of  the  sections  would  they 
adhere  as  the  true  Church  of  Scotland  ? 

They  were  men  of  no  common  mental  gifts.  Dr.  Duff  at 
Calcutta,  and  Dr.  Wilson  at  Bombay,  had  made  their  influence 
felt  among  all  classes  of  Indian  society.  Not  only  on  religious 
questions,  but  on  much  else  that  concerned  the  welfare  of  our 
Indian  Empire,  their  advice  had  been  sought  for  and  valued  by 
the  highest  Government  authorities. 

It  need  not  be  said  that  in  spiritual  earnestness  and  devoted- 
ness  they  were  among  the  most  eminent  of  the  ministry,  and,  in 
that  respect,  were  specially  fitted  to  deal  with  the  question  of  the 
Disruption.  Was  it,  as  some  alleged,  merely  a  debateable  point 
of  Church  politics ;  or  was  it,  as  the  Evangelical  party  main- 
tained, a  spiritual  principle  of  vital  moment  to  the  cause  of 
Christ  ?  Looking  to  the  missionaries,  where  were  men  to  be 
found  who  could  bring  to  bear  on  the  points  at  issue  such 
intellectual  power,  combined  with  such  spiritual  discernment  ? 

In  other  respects  also,  their  position  was  favourable.  Having 
gone  out  into  a  wider  world  beyond  Scotland,  they  might  be 
supposed  to  have  got  free  from  much  narrowness  of  view. 
Mingling  with  men  of  other  churches  and  nationalities 
in  the  mission-field,  and  looking  on  from  a  distance  with 
wider  sympathies,  they  could  better  judge  the  relative  import- 
ance of  the  questions  in  debate. 

And  they  had  the  great  advantage  of  having  taken  no  part 


502  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

in  the  strife.  Their  delicacy  in  this  respect,  indeed,  had  led 
to  a  degree  of  reticence  which  was  almost  excessive  ;  but  when 
reproached  for  it  by  those  who  could  not  enter  into  their  feel- 
ings, Dr.  Duff  replied  that,  as  a  missionary,  he  held  himself  to 
represent  the  whole  Church  both  of  the  majority  and  minority. 
-  He  had  no  right  to  make  himself  a  partisan  on  either  side,  and, 
as  long  as  he  could,  he  was  resolved  to  ig-nore  the  existence  of 
the  conflict.  Calmly  looking  on  from  a  distance,  the  mission- 
aries were  thus  in  the  best  position  for  making  up  their  minds. 

In  one  respect,  they  had  the  strongest  inducement  to  avoid 
the  Free  Church  and  adhere  to  the  Establishment. 

Ominous  warnings  reached  them  in  the  spring  of  1843,  not 
only  from  the  Moderates,  but  from  members  of  the  Evangelical 
party,  assuring  them  that  the  Free  Church  would  have  a  hard 
struggle  for  bare  existence  at  home,  and  the  support  of  foreign 
missions  would  be  impossible.  These  declarations  were  "very 
strong  and  baffling,"  Dr.  Duff  says  (Life,  ii.  p.  44).  To  join  the 
Free  Church  was  not  only  to  risk  their  whole  means  of  sub- 
sistence, but  they  were  threatened  with  the  overthrow  of  that 
noble  work,  so  full  of  promise,  to  which  they  had  given  their 
lives. 

The  first  to  decide  were  the  missionaries  to  the  Jews.  Cordi- 
ally and  unanimously  they  resolved  to  adhere  to  the  Free  Church  ; 
one  of  their  number,  the  Eev.  W.  Wingate,  remarking  that  "  the 
Church  of  Scotland  never  looked  so  like  the  Church  of  Scot- 
land since  her  Confession  and  Standards  were  compiled."*  But, 
while  the  Free  Church  got  all  the  men  and  the  missions,  she 
lost  all  the  money.  There  was  a  sum  in  the  exchequer  amount- 
ing to  £3500,  and  an  attempt  was  made  to  have  it  equitably 
divided,  on  the  ground  that  it  had  been  raised  by  both  parties, 
and  chiefly  by  those  who  were  now  members  of  the  Free  Church. 
It  had,  moreover,  been  given  for  the  support  of  those  individual 
men — the  missionaries — actually  in  the  field.  But  the  Estab- 
lishment would  listen  to  no  plea  of  equity.  An  appeal  to  law 
would  have  been  vain.  The  result  was,  that  the  Establishment, 
with  no  missionaries  to  support,  got  all  the  money,  while  the  Free 
Church,  with  an  empty  exchequer,  had  to  support  the  men  and 
*  Miss.  Record,  1843,  p.  4-1. 


THE  MISSIONARIES.  503 

meet  all  the  expenses  of  these  missions.  That  is  why  the  first 
missionary  collection  in  the  Free  Church  was  in  aid  of  the 
Jewish  Mission.  It  yielded  £3400,  just  the  amount  required 
for  tlie  first  year. 

The  list  of  the  Missionaries,  and  their  stations  at  that  time, 
were  : — ■ 

Pesth,     ....     John  Duncan,  D.D. 
William  Wingate. 
Eobert  Smith,  A.M. 

Assisted  by  Alexander  S.  T.  Saphir, 
Frederick  Tm.  Neuhaus. 
Jassy,    ....     Daniel  Edward. 

Assisted  by  Herman  Phillip. 
Constantinople,    .     C.  Schwartz. 
Syria,     ....     AVilliam  Owen  Allan. 

But  it  was  the  decision  of  the  missionaries  in  India  that  ex- 
cited the  deepest  interest,  both  the  Churches  in  Scotland  eagerly 
awaiting  the  result.*  The  first  to  respond  was  perhaps  the  most 
learned  of  that  devoted  band — Dr.  Wilson,  of  Bombay.  He 
was  returning  to  Scotland  on  furlough,  and  was  making  his  way 
through  Egypt  when  the  Disruption  took  place.  No  time  was 
lost  by  him  in  resigning  his  position,  and  sending  in  his  cordial 
adherence  to  the  Free  Church. 

In  India,  it  was  the  month  of  July  before  the  mail  arrived 
bringing  the  intelligence  of  what  had  taken  place  in  Scotland, 
along  with  formal  offers  from  each  of  the  Churches.  The 
response  at  once  given  was  a  unanimous  and  joyful  adherence 
of  the  whole  staff  to  the  Free  Church.  From  Calcutta,  Bom- 
bay, and  Poonah  resolutions  were  sent  off,  and  reached  Scotland 
in  time  to  be  reported  at  an  early  diet  of  the  General  Assembly 
sitting  in  Glasgow.  Tiiat  from  Madras  was  awanting,  owing  to 
an  untoward  accident ;  but  Dr.  Gordon,  the  Convener,  confidently 
foretold  that  the  brethren  there  would  take  the  same  position. 

*  For  full  information  the  reader  is  referred  to  the  able  Biographies  of 
Dr.  Wilson  and  Dr.  Duff  by  Dr.  George  Smith  ;  also  to  the  interesting 
account  of  Messrs.  Anderson  and  Johnston,  of  Madras,  by  the  Eev.  J. 
Braid  wood,  ]\I.A. 


504  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 

On  10th  July  their  reply  had  been  sent  by  the  steamer  Memnon, 
which  was  overtaken  by  a  storm  in  the  Ked  Sea  and  sunk  on 
tlie  1st  August.  By  the  next  mail,  however,  it  was  found  that, 
though  the  Madras  resolutions  were  the  last  to  come,  they  were 
not  the  least  cordial  in  their  terms ;  and  they  were  in  time  to 
•be  reported  before  the  Assembly  closed.  A  curious  circum- 
stance was  the  arrival  of  the  original  despatch  some  time  after- 
wards. "  A  band  of  divers  succeeded  in  recovering  the  mails  ; 
and  the  principal  copy  of  the  document,  in  a  dilapidated  state, 
was  received  on  the  17th  of  November,  after  lying  some  months 
at  the  bottom  of  the  sea.  We  need  not  add  that  it  is  carefully 
preserved."  * 

Thus,  in  the  most  decisive  way,  the  views  of  the  missionaries 
had  been  declared.  The  Establishment — look  to  what  quarter 
she  might — saw  herself  without  the  support  of  a  single  adherent 
in  the  whole  field  of  missions,  while  one  and  all  had  rallied  to 
the  side  of  the  Free  Church.  The  Committee  announced  the 
result  in  the  General  Assembly  with  "  unspeakable  satisfaction, 
and,  they  trust,  with  a  feeling  of  deep  and  devout  gratitude  to 
God."-[-  It  was  the  most  encouraging  event  which  took  place  in 
the  early  history  of  the  Free  Church. 

But  what  enhanced  its  importance  was  the  way  in  which  the 
missionaries  stated  and  enforced  their  views. 

Dr.  Duff  indeed  avows  the  severe  struggle  it  cost  him  before 
he  could  decide.  There  were  dear  personal  friends  to  be  parted 
from,  amidst  feelings  of  mutual  alienation ;  "  and  that  heart 
must  be  colder  and  deader  than  mine  which  could  contemplate 
without  pain"  such  a  result.  There  was  much  else  which  he 
speaks  of  as  embittering  the  prospect.  It  tried  his  faith ;  but 
not  for  a  moment  was  the  result  doubtful.  "  The  question  at 
issue  was  of  vital  moment,"  he  said.  "  In  early  youth  he  had 
drunk  in  Free  Church  principles  from  '  The  Cloud  of  Witnesses ' 
and  kindred  works,  and  time  and  mature  reflection  had  only 
strengthened  the  conviction  of  their  truth  and  paramount  im- 
portance to  the  spiritual  interests  of  man."  There  shone 
before  him  what  lie  describes  as  "  the  blazing  apprehension  of 

*  Miss.  Record,  1843,  p.  116. 
+  Ass.  Proc,  Gins.,  p.  11,  12. 


THE  MISSIONARIES.  505 

the  truth  and  reality  of  the  principles  at  issue,"  as  "revealed 
in  Jehovah's  infallible  oracles,"  and  "  embodied  in  the  constitu- 
tion and  history  of  the  Church  of  Scotland."  "  How  could  I 
decide  otherwise  than  I  have  done  ? "  * 

In  terms  not  less  emphatic  did  his  brethren  state  their  views  ; 
and  taking  into  account  the  whole  circumstances  of  their  posi- 
tion, it  was  beyond  all  question  the  most  signal-  testimony 
which  could  have  been  borne  in  favour  of  the  Free  Church  and 
her  principles.     Their  names  and  stations  were — 

Calcutta Alexander  Duff,  D.D. 

,,  William  Sinclair  Mackay. 

„  David  Ewart. 

„  John  Macdonald. 

„  Thomas  Smith. 

Bombay John  Wilson,  D.D. 

Robert  Nisbet. 

J.  Murray  Mitchell. 

Poonah  James  Mitchell. 

Madras John  Anderson. 

„  Robert  Johnstone. 

„  John  Braidwood. 

Ghospara Mahendra  Lul  Basack,  native  Catechist, 

Khorlas. 

It  is  painful  to  refer  to  the  questions  which  arose  as  to  the 
future  arrangements  of  the  mission. 

Nothing  could  be  more  undesirable  than  to  set  up  rival  insti- 
tutions in  view  of  the  heathen  populations  of  India,  and  have 
the  controversy  which  had  rent  asunder  the  Presbyterianism  of 
Scotland  fought  over  again  on  the  banks  of  the  Ganges.  If 
this  was  to  be  avoided,  either  Dr.  Duff  must  leave  Calcutta,  or  the 
Scottish  Establishment  must  seek  elsewhere  to  break  new  ground. 

As  to  the  idea  of  Dr.  Duff  and  his  colleagues  leaving  Calcutta, 
it  must  have  been  difficult  even  for  the  boldest  opponent  to 
propose  such  a  thing  in  the  religious  circles  of  that  city.  The 
other  missionaries  belonging  to  all  different  denominations — 
Episcopalians,  Independents,  American  Presbyterians,  Baptists 

*  Explanatory  Statement,  &c.,by  the  Rev.  A.  Duflf.D.D.,  Edinburgh,  1844. 


506  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

— rose  as  one  fnan  to  remonstrate.  The  whole  Christian  com- 
munity would  have  cried  shame  if  it  had  been  really  attempted 
to  part  him  from  the  many  hundreds  of  the  native  youth  of 
Calcutta,  whom  he  had  gathered  round  him,  and  who  looked  to 
him  as  their  father. 

Might  not  the  Scottish  Establishment  then — the  question 
arose — seek  new  openings  for  the  new  men  whom  they  were  to 
appoint?  There  was  a  noble  field  for  missionary  effort,  Dr. 
Duff  suggested,  lying  unoccupied  in  the  once  imperial  cities  of 
Agra  and  Delhi.  India  was  surely  wide  enough  to  give  scope 
for  the  energies  of  both  Churches,  without  their  sitting  down  in 
open  rivalry  and  collision  with  each  other. 

The  feeling  of  partisanship,  however,  was  keen  at  the  time, 
both  in  Calcutta  and  at  home  ;  and  it  was  resolved  to  expel  Dr. 
Duff  and  his  colleagues  from  the  Institution,  and  wrest  the 
whole  missionary  property  from  his  hands.  By  force  of  law  it 
could  be  done,  but  it  was  a  strong  step  to  take.  The  buildings 
were  of  his  planning.  He  had  toiled  hard  by  correspondence 
and  personal  application  among  his  friends  to  raise  the  funds. 
The  erection  of  the  institution  was  as  really  his  work  as  if  with 
his  own  hands  he  had  built  it.  Sums  of  money  given  to 
himself  for  the  use  of  his  family  he  had  at  different  times  laid 
out  on  it.  The  fair  thing  would  have  been  to  let  him  remain 
in  possession,  the  Committee  of  the  Established  Church  receiv- 
ing compensation  for  such  claims  as  they  might  have.  If,  on 
the  other  hand,  they  felt  bound  to  take  possession,  ought  they 
not,  as  honourable  Christian  men,  to  have  made  some  return 
to  Dr.  Duff  and  his  friends  ? 

The  Committee  in  Edinburgh,  however,  and  the  representa- 
tives of  the  Establishment  in  Calcutta,  had  other  views.  Tech- 
nically they  had  the  law  on  their  side,  and  disregarding  all 
claims  of  equity  between  man  and  man,  they  decided  that  Dr. 
Duff  and  the  other  missionaries  must  be  simply  expelled. 

It  was  a  painful  scene.  "  On  Saturday  morning,  9th  March, 
1844,  an  official  appeared,  and  I  delivered  up  to  him,"  Dr.  Dutt 
says,  "  the  keys  of  the  Institution,  dwelling-house,  and  other 
premises,  leaving  behind  library,  apparatus — everything  down  to 
the  minutest  atom  that  could  by  the  most  microscopic  ingenuity 


THE  MISSIONAEIES.  507 

be  claimed  by  our  friends  of  tlie  Establishment."  "  Our  sensa- 
tions on  leaving  a  place  so  endeared  to  us  by  labours  and  trials 
and  hallowed  associations,  it  were  vain  for  me  to  attempt  to 
describe."* 

At  Bombay  there  had  been  a  similar  transaction.  For  long 
years  the  missionaries  had  toiled  in  confined,  overcrowded 
rooms,  and  new  buildings  were  nearly  finished,  which  they  had 
striven  hard  to  raise,  by  the  help  of  friends.  With  the  simple 
confidence  of  an  honourable  mind,  Dr.  Wilson  was  sure  the 
Establishment  would  make  an  equitable  arrangement,  and  let 
him  have  them  on  receiving  compensation.  He  was  soon 
undeceived.  Not  only  was  the  house  they  had  built  taken  posses- 
sion of,  but  a  German  agent  appeared  demanding  the  library 
and  scientific  apparatus,  the  fruit  of  their  own  and  their  friends' 
generosity,  property  to  the  value  of  £8000.  Quietly  and  calmly, 
"  as  Christian  gentlemen,"  they  gave  it  up  without  compensa- 
tion ;  and  in  after  days  they  were  none  the  less  ready  to  do 
kind  service  to  the  Institution  which  had  so  used  them. 

Some  of  the  subscribers,  however,  could  not  refrain  from  ex- 
pressing what  they  felt.  Dr.  Smyttan,who  had  given  £200,  wrote 
the  Committee  stating  that  he  knew  almost  all  the  contributors 
— that  nine-tenths  of  them,  like  himself,  never  thought  of  the 
Established  Church  of  Scotland.  It  was  these  men — Dr. 
Wilson,  Dr.  Murray  Mitchell,  and  the  other  missionaries — whom 
they  wished  personally  to  aid  in  their  work,  and  it  would  be  a 
deep  disappointment  to  see  the  buildings  wrested  from  the 
individual  missionaries,  the  very  men  for  whom  they  had  been 
expressly  intended.  To  such  considerations,  however,  the 
members  of  the  Establishment  were  impervious. 

At  Madras  the  buildings  were  rented,  and  there  was  a 
Missionary  Board  in  which  men  of  all  religious  denominations 
united  to  provide  the  local  expenses.  This  they  continued  to 
do  after  the  Disruption,  as  before.  They  had,  however,  £500 
on  hand  in  1843,  and  offered  by  public  advertisement  to  repay 
any  subscription  which  might  be  asked  back,  an  example  of 
fair  dealing  which  deserves  notice  in  contrast  to  the  above. 
Not  a  single  subscription  was  withdrawn. 

*  Record,  July,  1844,  p.  179. 


508  ANNALS  OP  THE  DISRUPTION. 

Thus  the  mission  property  in  Calcutta  and  Bombay  was  lost, 
no  single  fragment  being  saved  out  of  the  wreck.  But  the 
faith  under  which  the  missionaries  acted,  did  not  fail  to  bring 
the  promised  blessing.  Across  the  Atlantic,  it  occurred  to  an 
American  merchant,  Mr.  Lennox,  of  New  York,  that  they  must 
be  in  difficulties,  and  at  once  he  and  his  sisters  remitted  to  Dr. 
Duff  a  sum  of  £500.  Before  it  arrived,  a  physician  in  Calcutta, 
the  well-known  Dr.  Simon  Nicolson,  handed  over  £500,  and 
told  Dr.  Duff  to  let  him  know  when  he  wanted  more.  One 
young  officer  sent  £83  "  donation  batta "  which  he  had  just 
received,  and  another,  £100  which  had  come  in  the  same  way ; 
and  so  the  money  came  pouring  in  from  many  a  generous 
friend  whose  heart  the  Lord  had  opened.  A  single  incident 
will  show  the  spirit  in  which  it  was  received.  When  that  sum 
of  £500  arrived  from  New  York,  Dr.  Duff  set  apart  a  propor- 
tion of  it  for  Madras,  as  well  as  for  Calcutta  and  Bombay.  Mr. 
Anderson  at  once  replied,  "  I  felt  the  moment  I  got  your  letter 
that  we  could  not  take  it.  We  are  not  the  less  grateful  to  Mr. 
Lennox  and  his  sisters,  but  your  necessities  are  more  pressing 
than  ours.  Give  us  your  prayers,  and  keep  the  money ;  we  have 
enough,  my  brother — what  is  that  between  thee  and  us  V  "A 
finer  example,"  Dr.  Duff  records,  "of  the  genuine  spirit  of 
Christian  brotherhood  cannot  well  be  conceived."  * 

Men  animated  by  such  principles  could  not  fail  of  success. 
It  was  on  9th  March,  1844,  as  we  have  seen,  that  Dr.  Duff  and 
his  colleagues  were  expelled  from  the  premises  ;  scholars  and 
teachers,  including  the  whole  personnel  of  the  mission,  being 
turned  out.  Ten  months  after  he  is  able  to  say  —  4th 
January,  1845 — "  All  things  have  prospered  with  us  ;  we  have 
a  more  capacious  edifice  for  our  operations  than  before ;  the 
pecuniary  resources  have  been  adequate ;  the  attendance  of 
pupils — 1257 — has  been  great  beyond  any  former  precedent, 
and  the  organic  workings  of  the  system  have  been  carried  on 
throughout  all  departments  with  new  life  and  renovated  vigour. 
Our  Institution,  as  a  Free  Church  one,  instead  of  falling  behind, 
has  already  started  considerably  in  advance  of  its  former  self."f 

*  Miss.  Record,  1844,  p.  295. 
t  Ibid.  1845,  p.  59. 


THE  MISSIONARIES,  509 

This  estimate  was  fully  confirmed  by  the  unanimous  testimony 
of  the  newspaper  press  at  the  annual  examination. 

Connected  with  all  this  there  are  many  interesting  details 
which  we  must  not  attempt  to  record,  but  one  incident  may  be 
given  as  an  example  of  many  others. 

The  loss  of  his  scientific  apparatus  and  library  was  one  of 
the  sacrifices  Dr,  Duff  most  keenly  felt.  Personally  he  had 
brought  it  together  by  his  own  contributions  and  those  of  his 
friends.  It  had  been  in  his  hands  of  the  highest  value  in  the 
religious  training  of  the  Hindoo  youth,  and  it  was  with  some 
soreness  of  feeling  he  saw  himself  deprived  of  it. 

Within  a  few  days,  however,  after  it  became  known,  a 
noble  beginning,  as  he  calls  it,  was  made ;  1100  volumes 
were  sent  in  as  the  commencement  of  a  new  library,  and  to 
his  special  delight,  a  medical  friend,  Dr,  Stewart,  a  son  of  the 
Manse,  and  like  himself  a  native  of  Moulin,  presented  him  with 
a  ten  feet  telescope,  "  one  of  the  finest  instruments  of  the  kind 
in  existence."  * 

This  good  beginning  required  to  be  followed  up,  and  the 
work  fortunately  fell  into  good  hands.  "  A  gentleman  " — Mr. 
Arthur  Eraser — "  visits  Dr.  Duff's  school  in  Calcutta,  sees  1250 
Hindoo  scholars,  hears  the  Doctor  lament  the  loss  of  books  and 
apparatus,  and  then  writes  to  his  sister,  a  lady,  we  believe,  in 
the  North — "  Could  not  you  ladies,  who  are  so  good  at  begging, 
set  to  work  and  get  up  a  subscription,  and  send  him  the  amount 
to  purchase  books  and  apparatus  ? "  The  simple  suggestion  was 
enough.  The  ladies  went  to  work  as  their  manner  is  ;  the  sub- 
scription lists  rapidly  filled;-}-  the  £1000  required  was  remitted 
to  Dr,  Duff,  and  soon,  a  reply  was  received  warmly  acknowledg- 
ing the  gift,  in  one  of  the  most  vehement  outpourings  of  thanks 
that  ever  came  even  from  his  pen. 

It  is  strange  to  observe  how  soon  the  views  of  the  Church 
began  to  enlarge.  Before  Dr,  Wilson  reached  the  shores  of 
Scotland  he  wrote,  "  We  must  begin  anew  by  resolving  to 
extend  our  operations,"  |  and  Dr,  Gordon,  at  the  Gla.sgow 
Assembly,    announced,  five  months  after  the  Disruption,  that 

*  Record,  July,  1844,  p.  179.  t  Witness,  8th  February,  1845. 

I  Life,  p,  387. 


510  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

the  Church  could  not  dream  of  resting  satisfied  with  upholding 
the  missions  as  already  established.  By  the  very  success  which 
God  vouchsafes  to  her  efforts,  He  will  compel  her  to  make  still 
greater  exertions.* 

The  first  step  was  the  opening  of  a  new  mission  at  Nagpore. 
A  distinguished  Madras  officer,  Sir  William  Hill,  had  lost  his 
wife  by  death,  and,  in  accordance  with  her  dying  wish,  had 
devoted  her  fortune,  with  a  contribution  (£500)  from  him- 
self, to  the  founding  of  a  mission  at  that  station,  where  the 
last  year  of  her  life  had  been  spent.  Though  himself  an  Epis- 
copalian, he  put  the  matter  into  the  hands  of  Dr.  Wilson.  This 
was  in  the  spring  of  1842,  but  Dr.  Brunton,  on  the  part  of  the 
Established  Church,  refused  to  undertake  the  responsibility 
in  the  midst  of  the  Disruption  controversy.  No  sooner,  how- 
ever, were  Dr.  Gordon  and  his  committee  free  to  act,  than  the 
offer  thus  made  by  the  member  of  another  church,  in  circum- 
stances so  touching  and  in  favour  of  the  capital  of  the  great 
central  province  of  India,  was  felt  to  be  irresistible.  The  Church, 
while  holding  her  position  with  increased  strength  at  Calcutta, 
Bombay,  and  Madras,  obeyed  the  call  to  "go  forward."  Mr. 
Stephen  Hislop,  "  a  man  after  Dr.  Wilson's  own  heart,"  was 
sent  out,  and  a  commanding  position  in  the  centre  of  the  vast 
continent  was  taken  possession  of,  by  one  who  ere  long  showed 
himself  worthy  to  be  "ranked  with  Duff",  and  Wilson,  and 
Anderson,  as  the  fourth  founder  of  Scottish  missions  to  India." 

Hardly  was  this  step  resolved  on  when  a  new  proposal  was 
made  to  add  another  continent  to  the  field  of  missionary  opera- 
tions. For  more  than  twenty  years  there  had  been  in  Glasgow 
a  Missionary  Society,  whose  sphere  of  work  was  in  South  Africa, 
at  stations  the  very  names  of  which — Lovedale,  Burnshill, 
Macfarlan — recall  the  venerated  men  by  whom  the  mission 
was  begun  and  sustained.  In  1843  the  staff  consisted  of  six 
missionaries,  and  a  still  larger  number  of  female  teachers  and 
native  assistants ;  and  hardly  had  the  Disruption  taken  place, 
when  the  Society  proposed  to  dissolve  itself  and  hand  over  the 
whole  agency  and  property  to  the  Free  Church.  The  offer  was 
one  which  it  was  impossible  to  refuse.  With  the  cordial 
*  Record,  July,  1844,  pp.  180.  181. 


THE  MISSION AKIES.  511 

acquiescence  of  the  missionaries  the  agreement  was  made,  and 
the  African  Mission  engrafted  on  the  Foreign  Mission  Scheme 
of  the  Free  Church.  There  were  some  who  felt  anxious  as  the 
burdens  on  the  funds  began  thus  to  multiply  ;  yet  it  was  noble 
work  for  the  Church  to  be  diffusing  the  light  of  education  and 
saving  knowledge  amidst  the  heathenism  of  the  "dark  continent," 
and  it  was  encouraging  to  find  with  how  cordial  a  welcome  the 
change  was  hailed  at  the  mission  stations  themselves.  When 
the  news  reached  Caffraria,  a  meeting  of  the  native  Christians 
was  held,  with  a  Caffre  chief  in  the  chair,  and  subscriptions  for 
the  Free  Church  set  on  foot.  The  contributions  being  given  in 
kind  had  to  be  disposed  of,  and  the  result  was  that  a  sum  of 
£180  was  sent  to  Scotland  as  a  free-will  offering  of  first-fruits 
from  this  portion  of  the  mission  field.  * 

Thus,  from  the  first,  the  desire  was  to  enter  in  at  the  open 
doors  which  God  in  His  providence  set  before  the  Church. 
How  this  process  of  enlargement  went  on  in  the  years  that 
followed,  it  is  not  for  us  here  to  tell. 

But  while  the  mission  field  thus  grew  wider,  there  were  mani- 
fest tokens  of  blessing  on  the  ground  already  occupied.  The 
funds  were  more  than  sustained,  and  spiritual  fruit  began  to 
appear. 

The  great  cause  of  regret  hitherto  had  been  the  small  propor- 
tion of  conversions  and  baptisms ;  but  it  almost  seemed  as  if 
the  Disruption,  in  this  respect,  had  brought  a  time  of  blessing. 
Hardly  had  the  Institution  removed  to  its  new  quarters  in  Cal- 
cutta when  a  highly-educated  Hindoo  youth  applied  for  bap- 
tism. In  the  course  of  the  year  another  and  another,  young 
men  of  good  position,  followed,  till  the  Hindoo  community  took 
alarm.  A  feeling  of  hostility  was  roused,  in  which  the  "  rank, 
wealth,  and  power  of  the  native  community "  took  part.  Still 
conversions  went  on,  and  the  tumult  got  worse.  A  great  anti- 
missionary — or,  rather,  anti  -  Free  -  Church  -  Institution — move- 
ment was  entered  on.  A  Hindoo  society  for  the  protection  of 
their  religion  was  formed.  Dr.  Duff's  house  was  besieged, 
Some  of  the  most  violent  resolved  to  take  what  they  considered 
the  most  effectual  way  of  getting  rid  of  these  conversions  by 
*  Ass.  Proc,  1845,  p.  214. 


512  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

getting  rid  of  Dr.  DuflF.  He  was  warned  that  "  a  body  of 
ruffians  of  the  baser  sort "  had  been  hired  to  assault  him,  and 
entreated  not  to  expose  himself  by  going  out  at  night,  and 
never  to  return  home  by  the  same  road  by  which  he  had  gone.* 

All  this  was  full  of  encouragement.  None  of  those  things 
moved  him.  The  mission  work  was  at  last  telling.  A  bless- 
ing was  on  it ;  and  very  thankfully  was  this  fact  acknowledged 
by  one  of  his  colleagues,  Mr.  Mackay,  at  the  Inverness  Assembly 
in  1845.  There  were,  he  said,  twenty-two  native  Christians  in 
Calcutta,  the  fruits  of  their  mission,  now  forming  the  nucleus 
of  a  native  Christian  Church.  I  do  not,  he  added,  wish  to 
attach  undue  weight  to  it,  but  "  surely  it  is  a  striking  fact,  and, 
I  trust,  a  token  for  good,  that  of  the  twenty-two  now  in  Cal- 
cutta no  less  than  eighteen  have  been  added  to  the  Church 
since  the  Disruption."  God  had  blessed  to  them  that  momen- 
tous event.  Friends  had  been  raised  up ;  good  men  of  other 
denominations  joined  them ;  funds  [local]  had  poured  in  to 
tenfold  their  usual  amount.-}*  Their  adherence  had  drawn  on 
them  the  favourable  notice  of  the  Church  at  home,  and  won  for 
them  a  warm  interest  in  their  prayers.  "  And  to  this  outpour- 
ing of  prayer  on  our  behalf  I  do  not  hesitate  to  ascribe,  under 
God,  the  success  which  has  lately  attended  us."| 

While  the  field  was  thus  widening  and  becoming  more  pros- 
perous abroad,  it  was  an  anxious  question  how  the  Church  at 
home  could  bear  the  burden.  Numerous  poor  congregations 
all  over  Scotland  were  oppressed  by  money  difficulties.  The 
demands  on  all  sides  were  unexampled.  How  in  the  midst  of 
such  a  struggle  could  increasing  funds  be  looked  for  to  meet 
their  increasing  liabilities?  The  result  fairly  took  men  by 
surprise. 

To  show  the  state  of  the  facts,  perhaps  the  best  way  will  be 
to  take  what  was  done  for  all  missionary  objects  during  the  six 
years  before  the  Disruption,  while  the  Church  was  yet  unbroken, 
and  compare  it  with  the  six  years  of  the  Free  Church  after  the 
Disruption.  § 

*  Life,  ii.  69.  t  Ass.  Proc,  Inverness,  p.  26. 

X  Within  two  years  the  sum  raised  in  Bengal  was  upwards  of  ^6000. — 
Ibid.  p.  27.  §  Assembly  Proceedings,  1849,  p.  18. 


THE  MISSIONAKIES. 


513 


In  the  Established  Church,  while  yet  unbroken,  there  was 
contributed  for  all  the  missionary  schemes — 


In  1837, 

.  £10,070 

„  1838, 

.  13,800 

„  1839, 

.  14,353 

„  1840, 

.  16,156 

„  1841, 

.  17,588 

„  1842, 

.  20,191 

£98,158 

In  the  Free  Church,  after  the  Disruption,  there  was  con- 
tributed for  missionary  schemes — 

In  1843-4, 


1844-5,   . 

.  35,526 

1845-6,   . 

.  43,310 

1846-7,   . 

.  43,327 

1847-8,   . 

.  47,568 

1848-9,   . 

.  49,214 

£242,819 

Annual  Average  in  United  Church,  before  the  Disruption,£16,359 
„  „        in  Free  Church,  after  the  Disruption,  .    40,469 

It  was  impossible  to  avoid  the  feeling  that  God  had  touched 
the  hearts  of  His  people.  It  was  a  surprise  to  themselves  to  see 
what  they  were  able  to  do ;  and  both  the  missionaries  abroad 
and  the  Church  at  home  might  well  thank  God  and  take 
courage. 


2  L 


514  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISKUPTION. 


XXXVT.  Pledges  UNFULFrLLED. 

In  contrast  to  the  unanimous  adherence  of  the  Missionaries 
we  must  now  allude  to  those  ministers  in  Scotland  who,  after 
publicly  pledging  themselves,  failed  in  the  day  of  trial.*  Their 
conduct  requires  to  be  noticed  because  of  the  keen  feeling  which 
it  excited  at  the  time,  and  because  the  favour  which  many  of 
them  received  within  the  Establishment  seriously  aifected  the 
relation  of  the  two  Churches  to  each  other. 

When  the  Convocation  met  in  November,  1842,  the  first 
step  taken,  was  to  pass  resolutions  laying  down  the  conditions 
absolutely  necessary,  if  the  Church  was  to  continue  in  connec- 
tion with  the  State. 

Upwards  of  500  ministers  voted  for,  or  signed,  these  resolu- 
tions ;  and,  of  these,  there  were  61  who,  after  Government 
refused  their  terms,  still  kept  their  places  in  the  Establishment. 

There  was  a  second  and  stronger  series  of  resolutions  signed 
by  474,  in  which  they  distinctly  pledged  themselves,  in  express 
terms  before  the  jDublic,  to  resign  their  livings ;  and,  of  these, 
there  were  29  who,  when  put  to  the  proof,  forgot  their  pledges 
and  retained  their  parishes. 

It  would  have  been  marvellous  if  nothing  of  the  kind  had 
occurred.  In  an  assembly  of  so  many  hundreds,  there  were 
sure  to  be  some  timid  men  who  were  not  able  to  face  the  danger 
when  it  actually  came.  Some  were  known  to  be  in  debt,  and 
creditors  bore  hard  on  them  ;  some  were  in  feeble  health — one 
especially,  in  the  West,  was  sinking  into  the  grave. -f* 

*  In  this  section,  for  obvious  reasons,  no  names  will  be  given  nor 
authorities  quoted  through  which  the  names  can  be  traced. 

t  There  were  cases,  however,  as  we  have  seen,  in  which  this 
did  not  shake  their  resohition.      An  additional  example  may  here  be 


PLEDGES  UNFULFILLED.  515 

Even  when  there  were  no  such  difficulties,  the  trial  in  itself, 
as  many  could  tell,  was  severe.  Dr.  Guthrie  gives  us  a  glimpse 
of  two  cases  which  he  met  with  immediately  before  the  Dis- 
ruption :  "  A  minister  in  a  certain  district  of  country  said  to 
me — '  You  think  there  is  no  chance  of  a  settlement.'  '  No/ 
said  I,  '  we  are  as  certain  of  being  out  as  that  the  sun  will 
rise  to-morrow.'  I  was  struck  by  something  like  a  groan,  which 
came  from  the  very  heart  of  the  mother  of  the  family.  They 
had  had  many  trials ;  there  had  been  cradles  and  coffins  in 
that  home.  There  was  not  a  flower,  or  a  shrub,  or  a  tree,  but 
was  dear  to  them.  Some  of  them  were  planted  by  the  hands  of 
those  who  were  in  their  graves.  That  woman's  heart  was  like 
to  break." 

"  In  another  locality  there  was  a  venerable  mother  who  had 
gone  to  the  place  when  it  was  a  wilderness,  but  who,  with  her 
husband,  had  turned  it  into  an  Eden.  Her  husband  had  died 
there.  Her  son  was  now  the  minister.  This  venerable  woman 
was  above  eighty  years  of  age.  Yes,  and  I  never  felt  more 
disposed  to  give  up  my  work  [advocating  the  cause  of  the 
Disruption]  than  in  that  house.  I  could  contemplate  the 
children  being  driven  from  their  home,  but  when  I  looked 
upon  that  venerable  widow  and  mother,  with  the  snows  and 
sorrows  of  eighty  years  upon  her  head,  and  saw  her  anxiety 
about  two  things — viz.,  that  Lord  Aberdeen  should  bring  in 
a  bill  to  settle  the  question,  but  her  anxiety,  at  the  same 
time,  that  if  he  did  not  bring  in  a  satisfactory  measure,  her 
son  should  do  his  duty,  I  could  not  but  feel  that  it  was  some- 
thing like  a  cruel  work  to  tear  out  such  a  venerable  tree — 
to  tear  her  away  from  the  house  that  was  dearest  to  her  upon 
earth."* 

Another  example  refers  to  a  later  period,  but  is  hardly  less 
striking.  "  I  remember,"  said  Dr.  Guthrie,  "  jjassing  a  manse  on 
a  moonlight  night  with  a  minister  who  had  left  it  for  the  cause 
of  truth.     No  light  shone  from  the  house,  and  no  smoke  rose. 

given  : — The  Rev.  D.  Davidson,  of  Broughty-Ferry,  after  years  of  failing 
health,  died,  25th  August,  1843  ;  "  one  of  his  last  acts  being  the  append- 
ing of  his  name  to  the  Deed  of  Deniission." — Parker  Mss. 
*  Memoir  of  Dr.  Guthrie,  ii.  p.  70. 


516  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

Pointing  to  it  in  the  moonlight,  I  said,  '  Oh  !  my  friend,  it  was 
a  noble  thing  to  leave  that  manse.'  'Ah,  yes!'  he  replied; 
'  but  for  all  that  it  was  a  bitter  thing.  I  shall  never  forget  the 
night  I  left  that  house,  till  I  am  laid  in  the  grave.  When  I 
saw  my  wife  and  children  go  forth  in  the  '  gloaming ' — when 
I  saw  them  for  the  last  time  leave  our  own  door ;  and  when,  in 
the  dark,  I  was  left  alone  with  none  but  my  God,  and  when 
I  had  to  take  water  to  quench  the  fire  on  my  own  hearth,  and 
put  out  the  candle  in  my  own  house,  and  turn  the  key  against 
myself,  and  my  wife  and  my  little  ones,  I  bless  God  for  the  grace 
which  was  given  me ;  but  may  He  in  His  mercy  grant  that  such 
a  night  I  may  never  see  again."  * 

Surely,  in  the  view  of  those  and  similar  cases,  every  one 
must  feel  how  little  cause  there  is,  without  discrimination,  to 
judge  severely  those  men  whose  faith  was  not  equal  to  such 
a  trial. 

Sometimes  the  results  were  deeply  to  be  regretted  on  account 

of  the  men  themselves.     "  The  Eev.  Mr. was  minister  of 

,  a  member  of  the  Convocation,  and  pledged  to  all  that 

had  been  agreed  to  in  that  great  assemblage.  A  man  of  ami- 
able character,  who  had  always  followed  with  those  who  fought 
in  our  great  battle,  he  was  generally  held  in  high  esteem.  .  .  . 
Under  what  influence  no  one  was  able  to  say,  but  fail  us,  when 

the  crash  came,  poor did.     All  who  knew  him  mourned 

over  it,  chiefly  for  his  own  sake.  He  never  was  to  his  old 
friends  or  to  society  what  he  had  been.  It  was  said  to  have 
affected  his  health.  However  that  might  be,  he  did  not  long 
survive  our  Disruption.  We  all  believed  that  a  happier  man 
he  would  have  been  had  he  continued  with  us.  Some  men 
there  were,  at  the  era  of  the  catastrophe,  whose  defection  was 
not  less — perhaps  was  more — inconsistent  and  blameworthy 
than  that  of  this  man  of  quiet  spirit ;  but  these  men  were  made 
of  grosser  material  than  he,  and  could  withstand  without  shrink- 
ing, as  he  could  not,  the  silent  contempt  of  what  some  might 
call  a  harshly-judging  world." 

It  was  the  latter  more  obtrusive  class  whose  conduct  and 
bearing  were  felt  by  the  public  to  be  offensive.  The  remark- 
*  Memoir  of  Dr.  Guthrie,  ii.  p.  85. 


PLEDGES  UNFULFILLED.  517 

able  thing  was  that,  during  the  earlier  stages  of  the  conflict, 
many  of  them  had  been  the  most  extreme  in  their  views  and 
violent  in  their  language.  One,  who  belonged  to  a  Presbytery 
in  the  West,  objected  to  the  resolutions  of  the  Convocation  as 
too  temperately  worded.  Another,  in  Perthshire,  used  to  de- 
nounce the  Moderates,  and  denounce  his  brethren  who  had  any 
intercourse  with  them.  A  third,  in  one  of  our  larger  towns, 
had  "outshone  all  his  brethren  by  his  intemperate  zeal  and 
violent  denunciations  of  the  Court  of  Session  and  of  the  minis- 
ters who  yielded  to  it.  Indeed,  his  brethren  at  public  meetings 
had  sometimes  to  disclaim  any  sympathy  with  the  bitter  ex- 
pressions he  made  use  of."  When  such  men  broke  their 
pledges,  remained  in  the  Establishment,  and  got  promotion,  it 
was  natural  that  some  keenness  of  feeling  should  be  called 
forth. 

In  coming  down  from  the  high  ground  which  they  had 
taken,  there  was  a  strange  variety  in  the  ways  by  which  they 
eflfected  their  retreat. 

There  was  a  Doctor  of  Divinity  in  the  West,  who  held  anti- 
patronage  views,  and  was  a  decided  member  of  the  Evangelical 
party,  but  his  theory  was  that  after  the  passing  of  the  Roman 
Catholic  Emancipation  Act  of  1829,  the  favour  of  God  was 
necessarily  withdrawn  from  us.  Even  measures  which  he  would 
otherwise  have  approved  of  would  now  be  no  blessings.  He 
would  have  nothing  to  do  with  the  resolutions  of  the  Convoca- 
tion, or  with  leaving  the  Establishment. 

A  minister  in  the  Western  Highlands,  who  was  deeply  pledged, 
intimated  to  his  people,  the  first  Sabbath  after  the  Disruption, 
that  he  would  take  a  few  days  to  think  over  the  matter.  Then 
he  was  asked  to  stay  in  till  after  the  communion.  Then,  he 
simply  stayed  in  altogether. 

Another,  who  at  the  Convocation  had  adhered  to  both  series 
of  resolutions,  continued  steadfast  till  within  a  few  weeks  of  the 
Disruption,  when  he  got  new  views  as  to  "  the  two  witnesses  " 
in  the  Book  of  Ptevelation,  which,  he  thought,  made  it  impera- 
tive on  him  to  stay  in  the  Establishment. 

In  the  North,  there  was  a  parish  minister  who  had  "  made  a 
flaming  and  ultra  profession," — not  only  going  all  lengths  with 


518  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

the  Convocation,  but  taking  active  steps  to  prepare  his  people 
for  the  Disruption.  He  came  to  the  Assembly  of  1843  ;  did 
not,  however,  sign  the  deed  of  demission,  but  published  a  letter 
saying  he  intended  to  remain  in  the  Establishment  "  for  a  time 
at  least."  -On  returning  home,  he  got  such  a  reception  from  his 
.  people  that  he  turned  and  set  off  again  for  Edinburgh  for  the 
purpose  of  resigning.     Somehow,  he  stopped  by  the  way. 

In  one  of  our  manufacturing  towns,  there  was  a  steady  sup- 
porter of  the  Evangelical  party,  who  went  still  further.  He  was 
a  member  of  the  Convocation.  After  the  Disruption,  he  ap- 
plied to  the  Assembly  at  Tanfield,  and  was  received  into  the 
Free  Church — preached  for  one  Sabbath  to  those  of  his  people 
whom  he  led  out  of  the  Establishment — then  quietly  turned, 
went  back,  and  left  them. 

It  was  difficult  to  know  how  the  men  who  had  broken 
their  pledges,  should  be  treated  in  the  private  intercourse  of  life. 
"During  the  Ten  Years'  Conflict,"  said  the  late  Mr,  Grant  of 
Ayr,  "  twenty-two  ministers  of  the  Presbytery  had  voted  with 
the  Evangelical  party.  When  the  day  of  trial  came,  only  eleven 
of  these  joined  the  Free  Church.  The  case  of  one  who  drew 
back  was  remarkable.  He  had  formed  an  association  to  collect 
for  the  Sustentation  Fund,  and  had  obtained  from  the  proprietor 
a  site  for  his  church,  which,  by  his  own  selection,  was  directly 
opposite  the  parish  church.  He  went  to  Edinburgh  to  the 
Assembly  with  the  avowed  intention  of  leaving  the  Establish- 
ment, but  failed  to  do  so.  I  do  not  mention  his  name,  as  he 
has  recently  passed  beyond  the  judgment  of  men," 

"  With  those  eleven  who  drew  back  in  the  day  of  battle  I  am 
not  aware  that  I  ever  afterwards  exchanged  as  much  as  one 
word.  Indeed,  I  do  not  remember  that  they  ever  gave  me  the 
opportunity  of  doing  so.  But  with  the  eleven  who  continued 
to  be  what  they  had  always  professed  themselves  to  be — con- 
sistent Moderates — I  remained  on  a  footing  of  mutual  courtesy 
and  kindly  feeling,  and  with  none  more  so  than  with  Dr.  Auld, 
the  clerk  of  the  Presbytery." 

Meetings  with  the  former  class,  however,  could  not  always  be 
avoided.  Mr.  Milne,  of  Perth,  "conversing  one  day  with  a 
minister  before  the  Disruption,  and  finding  that  notwithstanding 


PLEDGES  UNFULFTLLED.  519 

former  professions  lie  was  resolved  to  keep  hold  of  the  Establish- 
ment, tui-ned  suddenly  round  upon  him  and  said — '  I  see  how 
it  is.  You  are  just  like  Issachar.  You  see  that  the  land  is 
pleasant,  and  rest  is  good,  and  so  you  are  about  to  bow  your 
shoulder  to  bear.'  " 

After  the  Disruption,  Mr.  Martin,  of  Bathgate,  "  continued 
to  meet  on  friendly  terms  those  he  had  been  accustomed  to 
oppose ;  but  his  attitude  to  others  who,  under  '  shameful  pre- 
tences, had  renounced  their  principles,'  was  different.  Public 
morality  demanded  a  testimony  against  them.  An  incident 
which  occurred  in  the  house  of  one  of  the  landed  proprietors  of 
the  district  illustrates  this.  One  of  the  latter  class  being 
ushered  into  the  drawing-room,  where  Mr.  Martin  was  with 
the  lady  of  the  house,  walked  hastily  towards  him  with  a  fawn- 
ing look,  and  an  '0  Mr.  Martin' — on  his  lips.  When  lie 
had  come  near  him,  Mr.  Martin  turned  round  on  his  heel,  and 
walked  away  in  silence  to  another  part  of  the  room." 

The  feelings  of  the  laity  were  often  expressed  in  a  way  not 
less  decided.  An  extensive  landed  proprietor  in  the  West  was 
remonstrated  with  by  a  neighbouring  country  gentleman  for 
having   said   that   on   no   account   would  he  ever  again  hear 

Mr.  preach.      His  reply   was — 'You   and  I  were   once 

members  of  the  Jockey  Club.  Now,  if  any  of  us  had  acted  as 
Mr.  •  has  acted  would  he  not  have  been  expelled  ? '  '  Cer- 
tainly he  would.'  'Well,  then,  how  can  you  expect  me  to 
hear  Mr. preach  ? '  " 

The  thing  sometimes  took  a  ludicrous  turn.  "  One  of  these 
men,  near  Edinburgh,  big  talking,  had  publicly  declared  that, 
for  his  principles,  he  would  lay  his  head  on  the  block  as  calmly 
as  ever  he  laid  it  on  his  pillow.  But  when  the  Free  Church 
ministers  left  their  houses  he  sat  still  in  his.  Local  waggery 
took  its  joke.  On  a  summer  morning,  as  the  minister  stepped 
out  to  take  his  delight  in  his  garden,  just  before  his  door  there 
stood  an  axe  and  a  block.  What  thoughts  he  had  at  the  sight 
of  the  grim  pair  he  did  not  divulge."  * 

"I  heard  the  other  day,"  said  Dr.  Guthrie,  "  of  a  minister  who 
had  come  with  us  to  the  very  verge  of  the  Disruption,  who  had 
*  Life  of  Dr.  Cunningham,  p.  194. 


520  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

actually  obtained  a  site  for  a  church  and  manse,  but  who  when 
the  Disruption  came  remained  where  he  was.  The  gentleman 
who  gave  him  the  site  was  riding  one  day  in  a  narrow  lane 
when  he  saw  the  minister  approaching.  The  gentleman,  of 
course,  felt  rather  uncomfortable  at  the  prospect  of  the  meet- 
ing. He  wondered  what  he  would  say,  but  to  his  great  sur- 
prise, as  he  approached  him,  his  old  friend  went  over  the  hedge 
like  an  antelope — cleared  it  at  a  bound — and  was  in  a  moment 
out  of  sight.  My  friend,  of  course,  expected  to  see  him  run 
across  the  field,  but  no,  he  had  vanished.  So,  when  he  came 
to  the  spot  where  the  minister  had  disappeared,  he  drew  his 
horse  gently  close  to  the  hedge,  and,  looking  over, — there  he 
beheld  him,  squat  like  a  hare  in  a  furrow." 

Sometimes  in  such  incidents  the  serious  was  mixed  with  the 

ludicrous.     At in  the  North,  the  successor  appointed  was 

*'  the  Kev.  Mr. ,  of  Disruption  notoriety.  He  had  no  diffi- 
culty in  signing  the  deed  of  demission,  and,  Jehu-like  to  mark 
his  zeal,  he  subjoined  to  his  name,  '  Please  take  notice  that  I 
am  the  father  of  four  children.'  After  spending  two  or  three 
weeks  in  different  districts,  in  preaching  up  the  principles  of  the 
Free  Church  and  preaching  down  those  of  the  Establishment,  he 
suddenly  stopped  short,  exclaiming  '  Peccavi,'  expressing  the 
deepest  repentance,  and  praying  to  get  back  to  the  Established 
Church.  .  .  . 

"  Though  he  had  been  several  weeks  in  the  parish,  I  had  not 
seen  him.  At  length,  however,  we  met  on  the  high  road,  and 
the  meeting  had  nearly  proved  memorable  to  him.  I  had  been 
visiting  a  family  at  a  distant  village,  and  on  leaving,  the  person 
accompanied  me.  As  we  walked  slowly  along,  I  observed  a 
person  dressed  in  black  clothes  coming  meeting  us,  and  I  asked 
my  companion  who  this  was  just  before  us.  He  said  he  did 
not  know,  unless  that  it  might  be  a  traveller  at  the  village  on 
business.  I  had  my  pony  by  the  bridle,  but  presently,  as  the 
stranger  came  close  up,  it  reared  up  in  his  face  and  attempted 
to  strike  him  down  with  its  fore  feet.  Fortunately,  by  leaping 
aside,  he  escaped.  ...  I  felt  amazed,  and  turned  to  apologise,  but 
he  made  off,  knowing,  as  I  afterwards  understood,  who  I  was, 
although  I  did  not  know  him.     Never  having  seen  the  pony  act 


PLEDGES  UNFULFILLED.  521 

in  this  way  before,  although  I  had  ridden  it  for  fifteen  years,  I 
began  to  chastise  it,  saying  to  my  companion  how  vexed  I  was 
for  such  an  attack.  Several  people  in  the  village  witnessed 
what  had  happened,  and  immediately  a  report  was  circulated 
that  the  minister's  pony  had  tried  to  kill  the  Moderate.  This 
report  furnished  the  first  tidings  I  had,  as  to  who  the  person 
was  upon  whom  my  pony  had  made  such  a  determined  assault, 
as  if  it  knew  the  person  who  had  dispossessed  it  of  its  former 
residence." 

In  the  districts  of  the  country  where  such  cases  occurred,  the 
results  were  in  some  respects  to  be  deeply  regretted.  It  had 
been  said  by  Dr.  Chalmers,  that  if  the  470  ministers  who 
signalised  themselves  as  supporters  of  Free  Church  principles 
had  turned  round  when  they  saw  their  emoluments  threatened, 
a  Church  containing  hundreds  of  men  who  thus  had  trampled 
on  what  they  professed,  would  have  scandalised  the  com- 
munity.* Thanks  to  the  steadfastness  of  the  great  majority, 
the  country  was  spared  such  a  spectacle ;  and  thanks  to  those 
others  who  had  modestly  kept  in  the  background,  but  who  stood 
forward  in  the  hour  of  danger,  there  was  hardly  a  vacancy  in 
the  ranks ! 

But  in  the  parishes  of  those  who  did  draw  back,  the  effect 
could  not  fail  to  be  prejudicial  to  themselves,  and  to  the  cause 
of  religion.  The  subject  is  painful,  and  our  extracts  must  be 
brief. 

Sometimes  the  people  were  outspoken.  One  of  the  ministers 
already  referred  to  in  this  section  had  been  promoted  to  a 
desirable  parish,  and  set  about  "  courting  the  acquaintance  "  of 
his  parishioners  in  various  ways.  "  At  times  he  might  be  seen 
in  the  public  road  addressing  all  and  sundry,  and  offering  his 
snuff-box.  This  practice  was  easily  seen  through,  and  duly 
appreciated  by  the  sharp  people  he  had  to  deal  with.  One  day, 
when  in  this  mood,  he  met  a  very  sagacious  old  man,  and, 
shaking  hands,  asked  him  how  he  was.  '  Very  well,'  said  the 
man,  '  but  I  do  not  know  who  is  speaking  to  me.'  '  Oh  ! '  said 
the  minister,  'I  am  the  bad  man — droch  duine — that  lives 
in  that  house,'  pointing  to  the  parish  manse.  '  Well,'  replied 
*  Report  on  Sites,  iii.  p.  137,  q.  6446. 


522  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION, 

the  other,  'many  a  bad  man  has  got  a  good  house  in  these 
times ! '" 

One  of  the  outgoing  ministers,  after  speaking  of  the  deep 
injury  which  would  have  been  inflicted  on  the  cause  of  religion 
and  morality  if  the  Church  had  drawn  back,  adds,  "  I  think  I 
can  already  see  clearly  a  hardening  eflfect  produced  upon  many  of 
those  who  remain  in  the  Establishment,  to  be  traced,  I  believe, 
to  nothing  but  the  feeling  engendered  by  sitting  under  the 
ministry  of  men  whom  they  cannot  but  regard  as  not  actuated 
by  high-toned  feeling  and  right  principle — placing  their  own 
interest  above  the  call  of  duty." 


DISKUPTION  IN  ENGLAND.  523 


XXXVII.  Disruption  in  England.  ' 

Few  events  in  modern  Scottish  history  have  awakened  such 
interest  in  other  countries,  as  the  Disruption  of  1843.  Even 
Englishmen  began  to  ask  what  could  have  induced  nearly  500 
Scottish  ministers  to  resign  their  livings.  There  were  clamorous 
demands  for  information  from  various  quarters,  and  the  Free 
Church  gladly  responding  to  such  appeals,  sought,  by  deputa- 
tions and  otherwise,  to  make  known  the  great  principles  for 
which  she  had  contended. 

Among  the  Presbyterians  belonging  to  the  English  Synod, 
the  event  led  to  scenes  second  in  excitement  only  to  those  which 
had  taken  place  in  the  North.  At  the  first  meeting  of  the 
Presbytery  of  London,  the  Disruption  repeated  itself  in  miniature, 
with  this  difiference  that  it  was  the  Moderates  who  went  out. 
Writing  under  date  14th  June,  1843,  Dr.  Hamilton  has 
described  the  circumstances  : — "  Yesterday,  the  Presbytery  met 
• — Blair  in  the  chair.  After  sundry  matters  of  business  had 
been  harmoniously  settled,  the  call  from  Commercial  Eoad 
came  on.  The  Moderator,  who  had  evidently  received  his 
instructions,  said — '  Mr.  Ferguson,  in  the  name  of  the  Presbytery 
of  London,  in  connection  with  the  Established  Church  of  Scot- 
land, I  ask  you  if  you  accept  of  this  call.'  Mr.  Ferguson  said — 
'  I  accept  the  call  to  be  minister  of  that  church.'  Whereupon 
Mr.  Burns,  seconded  by  Dr.  Brown,  moved  that  the  Presbytery 
proceed  with  the  settlement.  This  was  agreed  to,  and  Mr. 
Loriraer  was  appointed  to  preside  at  the  induction."  Then  the 
question  arose  as  to  whether  it  was  to  be  in  connection  with 
the  Scottish  Establishment  ?  The  Moderator  maintained  that 
it  must ;  Dr.  Hamilton  held  that  admission  into  this  Presbytery 
did  not  imply  the  recognition  of  the  Scottish  Establishment, 


524  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

for  most  of  them  were  only  waiting,  in  the  altered  circumstances, 
till  their  ecclesiastical  superior,  the  Synod,  should  erase  from 
its  title  any  recognition  of  that  Church.  "  However,  as  it  was 
very  plain  that  they  meant  to  make  a  sinistrous  use  of  the 
present  designation  of  the  Presbytery,  it  might  simplify  matters 
to  alter  it  at  once,  which  we  were  quite  competent  to  do,  the 
Presbytery  having  existed  as  a  Presbytery  before  it  entered  into 
the  Church  of  Scotland.  It  was  accordingly  moved  that  the 
words,  '  in  connection  with  the  Established  Church  of  Scotland,' 
be  henceforth  omitted  in  the  designation  of  the  Presbytery. 
The  Moderator  refused  to  put  the  motion,  as  being  revolutionary 
and  incompetent.  Whereupon  it  was  moved  that  the  Moderator, 
having  refused  to  discharge  his  duty,  has  lost  the  confidence  of 
the  Presbytery,  and  that  Mr.  Lorimer  be  appointed  Moderator 
in  his  stead, — which  motion  was  put  by  the  Clerk,  and  carried ; 
the  Moderator  not  voting.  This  disconcerted  the  enemy  a  little, 
and  in  a  sort  of  panic,  Blair  declared  the  Presbytery  adjourned  ; 
and,  amidst  much  outcry  of  the  audience  against  its  profanity, 
pronounced  the  blessing,  on  which  the  four  ministers,  with 
Stewart  and  Nicolson,  elders,  marched  out,  and  Kay  and  the 
Woolwich  elder,  Rutherford,  retired  from  the  table.  Their 
departure  elicited  a  burst  of  hissing  and  derisive  cheers  from  the 
audience,  which  was  considerable.  When  they  were  gone,  and 
our  own  Moderator  was  in  the  chair,  after  prayer,  the  business 
again  proceeded.  The  motion  to  erase  the  words,  *  in  connection,' 
&c.,  was  harmoniously  agreed  to;  and  after  some  further  business, 
the  Presbytery  adjourned.  We  had  thirty-four  at  the  Presby- 
tery dinner,  and  far  the  happiest  evening  we  have  spent  there. 
The  Moderates,  before  adjourning,  forgot  to  fix  a  day  and  place 
for  their  next  meeting,  so  that  they  are  presbyterially  defunct. 
Though  my  own  wish  was  to  stave  off  this  disruption  for  a 
time ;  now  that  it  is  over,  every  one  feels  relieved  and  lightened. 
Our  way  was  fenced  with  thorns,  so  that  we  had  no  alter- 
native." * 

It  was  unfortunate,  certainly,  for  the  Moderates,  that  they 
adjourned  in  such  fashion  as  to  render  themselves  presbyterially 
defunci;  but  there  were  other  things  which  weakened  their 
*  Life  of  Dr.  Hamilton,  p.  220. 


DISRUPTION  IN  ENGLAND.  525 

hands.  In  Northumberland,  a  faithful  minister,  who  stood  to 
his  post,  and  prevented  the  Establishment  from  seizing  his 
church,  says : — "  I  saw  my  neighbours  running  helter-skelter 
across  to  take  parishes.  These  men  are  now  (1874)  all,  or 
almost  all,  dead,  some  never  having  comfort  in  their  charges, 
so  far  as  I  could  hear.  I  walked  out,  on  the  18th  May,  with 
the  rest,  and  was  on  the  platform  with  James  Hamilton,  James 
Nisbet,  &c."  * 

When  deputations  were  sent  from  Scotland,  however,  it  was 
not  so  much  with  the  English  Presbyterians  that  they  had  to 
deal  as  with  the  general  public.  Dr.  Guthrie,  Dr.  Cunningham, 
and  Dr.  H.  Grey,  made  the  first  movement,  giving  addresses  in 
London,  Liverpool,  and  Manchester,  where  it  is  said  they  "  found 
the  highest  enthusiasm  prevailing  in  the  cause  of  the  Free 
Church."  In  the  course  of  time,  a  whole  series  of  deputations 
followed.  All  over  England  the  leading  towns  were  visited, 
and  everywhere  the  ministers  of  the  Free  Church  met  with  the 
most  cordial  welcome. 

The  most  difficult  class  to  deal  with  were  the  clergy  and 
members  of  the  Church  of  England.  When  Dr.  Candlish  went 
to  Cambridge,  he  says : — "  I  got  about  200  gownsmen  to  listen 
to  both  of  my  addresses  with  profound  attention,  and  many  of 
them  with  ardent  earnestness."  Objections  were  raised,  but 
the  ready  tact  of  the  great  debater  did  not  fail  him.  One  of 
the  University  men  said,  since  Dr.  Candlish  spoke  so  strongly 
of  the  rights  of  the  Church,  he  would  like  to  know  what  he 
understood  by  the  Church  ?  Dr.  Candlish  replied  at  once,  "  I 
accept,  without  qualification,  the  definition  given  in  the  Thirty- 
nine  Articles."  Another  then  said  that  he  could  not  un- 
derstand how  the  Free  Church  claimed  to  be  the  Church  of 
Scotland,  when  they  were  separate  from  the  State,  and  another 
Church  was  established.  "  I  would  reply  to  that,"  said  Dr. 
Candlish,  "  by  asking  my  friend  another  question.  Where  was 
the  Church  of  England  during  the  Commonwealth?"  After 
this  there  was  no  farther  interruption.  How  his  addresses  im- 
pressed the  audience  may  be  gathered  from  the  description  given 
in  a  local  newspaper.  "  His  voice  falls  at  first  slowly  and  harshly 
*  Disr.  Mss.  xliii.  p.  4. 


526  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

upon  the  ear^  as  he  proceeds,  hoAvever,  it  gathers  force  and 
volume.  His  slight  figure  seems  to  distend  its  proportions,  his 
gesticulation  becomes  vehement,  his  utterance  rapid,  and  his 
tones  loud.  His  style  of  language  rises  as  he  proceeds,  and  the 
effect  he  produces  upon  his  hearers  is  exhibited  in  the  intense 
attention,  broken  only  by  loud  and  simultaneous  bursts  of 
applause,  when  the  orator  reaches  the  climax  of  his  subject. 
His  oratory  is  fascinating  from  its  originality  and  wild  fer- 
vour." * 

In  the  meeting  at  Gravesend,  two  magistrates,  members  of 
the  Church  of  England,  were  present,  and,  in  consequence  of 
subscribing  to  the  fund,  Dr.  Begg  tells  how  they  were  called  to 
account,  next  Sabbath,  by  the  rector  of  the  parish,  in  a  ser- 
mon in  which  he  denounced  them  for  encouraging  schismatics 
in  the  North.-f- 

And  yet  there  were,  even  among  zealous  Churchmen,  some  warm 
supporters  of  Disruption  principles.  One  of  the  most  powerful 
speeches  ever  heard  in  defence  of  the  Free  Church,  was  that  of 
the  Hon.  and  Rev.  Baptist  Noel,  then  of  St.  John's,  Bedford 
Row.  Another  of  the"  London  clergy  also — the  Rev.  Thos. 
Mortimer,  B.D. — was  not  less  earnest  in  his  advocacy.  "  I  have 
watched  the  Church  of  Scotland,"  he  said,  "with  intense  interest. 
I  have  wept  over  her  manifold  afflictions,  and  I  do  feel,  most 
conscientiously,  that  the  cause  our  Scottish  brethren  have 
espoused  is  the  cause  of  God." 

There  was  another  movement,  however,  of  a  more  private 
nature,  which  deserves  notice,  as  having  given  special  pleasure 
to  Dr.  Chalmers.  It  originated  with  a  warm-hearted  member 
of  the  Evangelical  party  of  the  Church — the  Rev.  John  Hunter 
of  Bath.  Educated  at  Magdalen  College,  Oxford,  he  had  served 
for  a  time  at  Watton,  Herts,  the  parish  of  the  well-known  Rev. 
Edward  Bickersteth,  till  compelled  by  ill  health  to  retire.  His 
whole  sympathies  were  with  the  Free  Church  ;  and  soon  after 
the  Disruption,  he  drew  up  a  paper — pronounced  by  Dr. 
Ciialmers  to  be  "  complete  and  faultless  " — in  which  he  pled 
the  cause  and  appealed  for  subscriptions.     One  brief  extract, 

*  Memorials  of  Dr.  Candlish,  p.  331. 
t  Blue  Book,  Glasgow,  1843,  p.  88. 


DISEUPTION  IN  ENGLAND.  527 

given  below,*  will  show  how  the  question  of  spiritual  indepen- 
dence was  stated  by  an  English  Churchman,  and  may  interest 
the  reader  all  the  more  that  it  is  singled  out  for  special  com- 
mendation by  Dr.  Chalmers.  "  What  I  particularly  like  is  your 
selection  of  the  one  point  of  jurisdiction  to  the  exclusion  of  the 
other  of  non-intrusion."  The  circulation  of  this  appeal  drew 
forth  most  gratifying  testimonies  from  the  members  of  the 
Evangelical  party  in  the  Church.  When  the  Free  Church 
deputation  visited  Bath,  five  or  six  of  these  ministers  solicited 
an  interview,  and  one  of  them,  says  Dr.  Begg,  "  opened  one  of 
our  meetings  with  prayer."  The  appeal  that  had  pleased  Dr. 
Chalmers  appeared  to  him  also  so  excellent  that,  at  the  next 
meeting  of  the  General  Assembly,  he  read  the  greater  part  of  it, 
adding,  "  I  have  seen  the  men  from  whom  this  document  pro- 
ceeds, and  I  never  met  with  more  amiable  or  Christianlike 
men." 

But  while  English  Churchmen,  to  some  extent,  gave  their 
sympathy  and  support,  it  was  among  the  Nonconformists  that 
the  real  success  of  the  movement  was  mot  with.  "  You  have 
heard,"  said  Dr.  Begg,  "  that  the  Mayor  of  Manchester,  an 
eminent  British  merchant,  the  Mayor  of  Birmingham,  and  the 
Mayor  of  Bath,  all  presided  at  our  meetings,  and  all  these 
gentlemen  are  members  of  the  Independent  denomination.  We 
also  found  strenuous  support  from  many  eminent  ministers  of 
that  body."  So  it  was  also  among  the  Baptists.  "  In  a  word, 
all  the  men  who  held  the  fundamental  truths  of  the  Bible,  more 
or  less,  came  to  our  assistance."  There  was  one  denomination, 
however,  which  stood  out  beyond  all  others  as  the  friends  of 
the  Free  Church — the  Wesleyan  Methodists. 

It  is  impossible  to  give  here  any  detailed  account  of  what 
was  done  in  the  different  localities.  Dr.  Nathaniel  Paterson, 
of  Glasgow,  and  Mr.  Buchan,  of  Hamilton,  visited  the  North  of 

*  "  We  feel  that  the  claim  of  the  civil  court  to  enforce  ordination  to  the 
ministry,  whether  directly  or  indirectly,  under  any  possible  circumstances, 
is  an  unjustifiable  usurpation  in  a  matter  purely  spiritual ;  and,  conse- 
quently, we  judge  that  those  of  our  Northern  brethren,  who  view  the  subject 
in  the  same  light  with  ourselves,  could  not,  as  Christian  men,  do  otherwise 
than  resign  their  connection  with  the  State." 


628  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 

England,  and  obtained,  as  the  result  of  their  different  meetings, 
the  sum  of  £1200.  Two  enthusiastic  meetings  were  held  in 
Manchester,  and  on  the  following  Sabbath  collections  were  made 
in  thirty-five  places  of  worship  in  the  town,  amounting  to 
upwards  of  £4000.*  These  are  examples  of  what  was  going  on. 
During  the  first  summer,  it  was  stated  that  £20,000  was  raised 
in  aid  of  the  Free  Church,  but  greater  things  were  expected. 
Mr.  Bunting,  the  generous  and  large-hearted  friend  of  the 
movement,  proposed  that  a  hundred  pulpits-j-  should  be  occupied 
in  one  day  in  London  to  "  enforce  those  Bible  principles  on 
which  we  have  taken  our  stand,  and  to  obtain  additional  col- 
lections." 

With  these  introductory  notices,  we  now  submit  to  the  reader 
the  statement  of  Mr.  Burns,  of  Kirkliston,  who,  in  1843,  was 
minister  of  London  Wall  Church,  and  was  honoured  to  take  a 
leading  part  in  the  work,  in  England. 

*  Eeport  of  Glasgow  Assembly,  1843,  p.  85.  The  above  sum  of  £4000 
must  have  included  several  large  subscriptions  given  privately,  and  coilec- 
tions  at  the  public  meetings. 

t  Ibid.  p.  90. 


LONDON  REMINISCENCES,  1843-  539 


XXXVIII.  London  Reminiscences,  1843. 

By  the  Rev.  James  C.  BuR^^a,  Kirkliston. 

OuB  modest  "  miniature "  Disruption  in  the  Presbytery  of 
London  took  place  within  a  month  of  the  great  event  in  Edin- 
burgh. It  might,  and  probably  would  have  been  warded  off  till 
the  April  following,  when  the  Synod  was  indicted  to  meet  at  Liver- 
pool, but  for  the  circumstance  that  the  induction  of  a  minister  (the 
Eev.  James  Ferguson)  into  a  vacant  charge  made  it  necessary 
to  determine  in  what  sense  the  "  formula  "  was  to  be  understood, 
alike  by  the  presiding  minister  in  putting  the  questions  pre- 
scribed by  it,  and  by  him  in  answering  them.  The  point  at 
issue  was — "  Is  the  Church  of  Scotland,  as  by  law  established," 
the  present  Establishment  ?  or  is  it  the  Establishment  as  it  was 
till  the  18th  of  last  month,  alias  the  disestablished,  "  the  Free 
Church  of  Scotland  "  ?  Though  the  Moderator  refused  to  act, 
in  taking  a  vote  on  the  question  thus  raised,  the  Presbytery 
acted  for  itself,  superseding  him  in  his  office,  and  resolving  to 
obliterate  from  its  title  the  words  which  up  till  that  time 
had  given  it  a  nominal  connection  with  the  mother  Church. 
This  resolution — moved  by  Mr.  Hamilton — and  carried,  was 
the  solution  of  all  our  other  controversies,  and  brought  to  a 
speedy  end  our  collisions  with  the  "  moderate  "  brethren,  which 
had,  of  late,  not  been  few,  for  it  relieved  us  at  once  of  their  com- 
pany ;  in  a  very  short  time  after  the  vote  was  declared,  they  rose 
simultaneously  from  their  seats  and  departed.  The  only  further 
"conflict"  which  took  place  was  one  of  muscular  force  between 
the  Clerk  and  one  of  the  out-going  minority  (the  most  athletic  of 
the  number)  ;  the  former  tightly,  though  stealthily  holding, 
the  latter  stoutly  grasping  at  the  Presbytery  minute-book  as  it 
lay  open  on  the  table,  with  the  result  that  it  remained  in  posses- 
sion of  its  lawful  owners.     Its  brazen  clasps  saved  it. 

•2  M 


530  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

That  was  a  truly  liappy  event,  making  the  day  and  the 
place  memorable — the  13th  of  Jmie  1843 — in  the  Scots' 
Church  at  Woolwich.  Among  other  spectators  or  participants 
of  the  scene,  were  General  Anderson,  RA.  (so  well  known  in 
his  later  years  in  the  Free  Assembly),  and  Mr.  Mure  Macredie 
of  Perceton,  both  of  whom,  by  their  genial  presence  and  fellow- 
ship, helped  to  make  our  social  meeting  afterwards  (as  Mr. 
Hamilton  testifies),  "  by  far  the  happiest  evening  we  had  ever 
spent,"  in  a  Presbyterial  capacity. 

Though  we  thus  "  came  out "  in  one  sense,  in  another  we 
"  staid  in."  We  not  only  kept  possession  of  the  building  in 
which  we  met,  and  of  the  book  in  which  our  proceedings  were 
being  recorded ;  we  also  kept  our  several  churches,*  and  if  we 
had  had  manses,  would  have  kept  them  too,  our  experience  in  this 
respect  widely  differing  from  that  of  our  dear  brethren  elsewhere, 
— the  trial  in  our  case,  scarcely  a  trial  at  all.  Not  indeed,  in 
some  cases,  was  this  accomplished  without  difl&culty,  arising  from 
obsolete,  inconvenient  title-deeds  and  threatenings  of  ejectment 
founded  thereon ;  but  ultimately  there  wasn't  a  member  of  the 
Presbytery  (as  now  constituted),  who,  besides  retaining  his 
people,  did  not  succeed  in  retaining,  or  rescuing  his  place  of  wor- 
ship also,  with  whatever  of  "  possessions  or  goods  "  might  belong 
to  it !  The  securest  of  all  our  churches  was  the  oldest,  "  the 
Scots'  Church,  London  Wall."  Fortunately  for  the  peace  of 
mind  of  its  minister  and  congregation,  it  had  a  constitution, 
which,  if  the  quoad  sacra  churches  across  the  border  had  been 
equally  fortunate  and  far-seeing,  would  probably  have  saved 
them,  as  it  saved  it,  from  the  hand  of  the  spoiler ;  being  bound 
only  to  the  "  Westminster  Confession  of  Faith,"  and  "  the  form 
of  worship  commonly  practised  in  the  Church  of  Scotland  ! " 

Numerically,  no  doubt,  we  sufi'ered  by  the  aforesaid  secession. 
Three  of  the  London  congregations,  with  their  ministers,  left 
us ;  but  what  we  lost  in  one  direction,  we  gained  in  another. 
Our  separation  from  them  brought  us  into  fellowship  with  all 
the  Evangelical  Churches  around,  from  which  we  had  in  a  great 
measure  been  excluded  before.     We  were  isolated  no  longer. 

*  It  should,  however,  be  mentioned  that  in  the  Provinces  several  churches 
were  seized  after  much  litigation — e.g.,  Dr.  Munro's  at  Manchester. 


LONDON  EEMINISCENCES,  1843.  531 

Though  we  had  always  been  "  Nonconformists  "  in  fact,  we  were 
not  regarded  as  such  (except  by  the  Establishment),  so  that  our 
position  between  the  two  great  parties  of  "  Church  and  Dissent," 
was  alike  anomalous  and  difficult.  We  were  disowned  equally 
by  both,  and  we  were  not  strong  enough  to  stand,  or  at  least, 
to  make  ourselves  visible  as  a  denomination,  alone. 

Tiie  Disruption  changed  all  that.  We  became  a  denomina- 
tion, and  instead  of  being  stationary  or  stereotyped  as  hitherto, 
we  began  forthwith  to  multiply  and  grow — to  break  forth  on 
the  right  hand  and  on  the  left.  The  six  or  seven  charges 
which  constituted  the  whole  Presbytery,  in  1843,  (along  with  a 
similarly  small  number  belonging  to  the  "  United  Presbyterian 
Church,"  afterwards  happily  amalgamated  with  them),  have 
now  grown  into  upwards  of  seventy — twice  as  large  a  body  as 
was  the  entire  Synod  in  England  up  to  that  time. 

Havinoj  neither  church  nor  manse -buildings  to  look  after, 
immediately,  for  ourselves,  we  were  all  the  better  situated  for 
taking  part  in  the  great  movement  in  that  direction,  which,  by 
this  time,  had  begun  to  stir  all  Scotland.  We  were  ready  to 
welcome  the  General  Assembly's  deputies  when  they  came  to 
us  ;  to  work  with  them,  or  to  work  for  them.  And  there  were 
not  a  few  of  us  who  did. 

The  first  of  those  deputies  were  Dr.  Henry  Grey,  Dr.  Cunning- 
ham, and  Dr.  Guthrie  ;  and  their  first  meeting  was  held  in  the 
church  at  London  Wall,  as  a  sort  oi feeler,  or  pioneer  to  the  great 
meeting,  announced  for  the  day  following,  in  Exeter  Hall, — its 
proximity  to  Lombard  Street  and  the  Bank  of  England  being  (as 
Dr.  Guthrie  jocularly  remarked),  one  of  its  recommendations. 
Mr.  Patrick  Maxwell  Stewart,  M.P.  for  Renfrewshire,  presided  at 
the  former,  and  the  Marquis  of  Breadalbane  at  the  latter.  Both 
meetings  were  successful,  to  a  wish  ;  and  those  three  distinguished 
men  never  appeared  to  more  advantage,  or  spoke  with  better 
effect,  than  they  did  on  both  occasions.  The  enthusiasm 
evoked  was  wonderful, — scarcely  less,  or  less  unmistakable, 
than  that  of  similar  gatherings  in  Scotland ; — "  liberal  things  " 
were  both  devised  and  done  (several  large,  surprisingly  large, 
contributions  being  intimated  in  course  of  the  proceedings) ; 
and  such  was  the  demand  for  the  services  o£  the  Deputies  in 


532  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

addressing  meetings  elsewhere,  everywhere,  that  a  systematic 
movement  for  pervading  London,  and  gathering  in  the  offered 
contributions  of  the  several  churches,  became  as  necessary  as  it 
was  desirable. 

A  committee  accordingly  was  formed,  to  act  in  concert  with 
.  another  formed  about  the  same  time  in  Manchester ;  and, 
between  the  two,  arrangements  were  speedily  made  with  the 
Home  authorities  for  sending  deputies  from  Scotland,  not  only 
to  these  great  cities,  but  to  every  considerable  town  in  England, 
wherever  there  was  an  open  door.  Of  the  London  committee, 
the  most  active  member  imdoubtedly  was  good  James  Nisbet, 
of  Berners  Street,  Oxford  Street,  who  threw  his  whole  energies 
into  it,  and  gave  it  most  of  his  time,  heading  the  subscription 
list,  besides,  with  £1000  ; — ^his  brother  elders,  Messrs.  William 
Hamilton  and  Alexander  Gillespie,  likewise  doing  their  part 
nobly,  as  in  all  good  causes  they  were  wont  to  do.  Our  place 
of  business  was  the  back  parlour  in  Berners  Street,  where  all 
letters  were  received  and  answered, — and  where  the  secretaries, 
of  whom,  along  with  "  the  well-beloved  "  James  Hamilton,  I  had 
the  honour  to  be  one,  held  themselves  in  readiness  to  meet  with 
whoever  might  come  to  get  information,  to  arrange  for  pulpit 
supply,  or  to  offer  help.  Many  a  pleasant  hour  was  spent  in 
that  quiet  committee-room,  and  the  work  done  there  was  much 
more  than  its  own  reward,  by  the  substantial  results  of  it.  One 
of  our  most  distinguished  visitors  was  the  late  Countess  of 
Effingham,  and  it  was  in  consequence  of  the  information  we 
were  able  to  give  her  respecting  certain  needy  and  deserving 
congregations  in  Scotland,  about  which  she  made  inquiry,  that 
she  selected  them  as  the  objects  of  her  thoughtful  and  mimiticent 
liberality.  At  most  of  the  district  meetings  held  in  London, 
her  ladyship  was  present ;  at  that  in  Surrey  Chapel,  where  Dr. 
Begg  was  the  "  chief  speaker,"  offering  her  services  as  a  "  deacon- 
ess "  or  collector.  For  a  time,  also,  it  should  be  mentioned,  a 
room  was  hired  in  Exeter  Hall,  as  being  more  central,  and  there 
the  two  committees  carried  on  the  work  together. 

But  before  saying  more  about  London,  I  am  happy  to  be 
able  to  report  on  the  doings  of  the  committee  at  Manchester,  on 
the  authority,  and  in  the  words  of  the   one  man  who,   more 


LONDON  EEMINISCENCES,  1843.  533 

than  all  other  men,  laboured  in  our  cause  there,  and  contributed 
to  the  success  of  it, — he  being  neither  a  Scotchman  nor  a 
Presbyterian — viz.,  Mr.  Percival  Bunting,  then  practising  as  a 
Solicitor,  who  still,  though  no  longer  resident  in  Manchester, 
happily  survives.  He  has  favoured  me  with  some  of  his  "  Re- 
miniscences "  both  of  what  was  done  in  England  before  the 
Disruption,  with  a  view  to  the  enlightenment  of  the  English 
public  on  the  great  question  at  issue,  and  also  of  what  was 
done  afterwards  in  the  way  of  evoking  the  sympathy  and  the 
"  siller  "  of  the  Christian  people.  On  the  former  of  these  sub- 
jects this  is  what  he  says  : — 

"  During  the  Ten  Years'  Conflict  successive  deputations  visited 
London  with  the  view  of  influencing  Parliament  or  Administra- 
tions in  favour  of  the  Evangelical  party  in  the  Church  of 
Scotland.  As  to  religious  parties,  they  were,  I  think,  somewhat 
shy  at  first  of  seeking  aid  from  Nonconformist  sources.  The 
appeal  was  rather  to  the  Church  of  England,  and  to  it,  as 
having  a  common  sympathy  on  the  question  of  religious  estab- 
lishments ;  and  Chalmers's  recent  great  display  in  London  on 
that  topic  gave  them  a  vantage  ground  of  which  they  made  all 
possible  use.  Gradually,  and  just  as  they  were  learning  severe 
lessons  as  to  the  obstinate  ignorance  or  indifference  of  states- 
men, it  became  obvious  that  the  common  ground  on  which  they 
commanded  the  general  sympathy  of  some  English  Churchmen 
was  too  narrow  for  any  sustained  common  action.  Indeed,  by 
one  of  those  strange  revolutions  of  opinion,  of  which  in  our 
time  we  have  seen  so  many,  it  turned  out  that  the  then 
narrowest  school  of  English  ecclesiastics — the  school  of  which 
Henry  Philpotts,  Bishop  of  Exeter,  was  the  foremost  repre- 
sentative— had  the  deeper  sympathy  with  the  Scotch  movement. 
With  thoughtful  men  of  all  schools,  then,  as  now,  the  national 
establishment  of  religion  is  one  (and,  with  some,  a  subordinate) 
question,  spiritual  independence  another  (and,  perhaps,  with 
more)  one  far  more  important." 

The  one  man  in  the  Church  of  England,  of  name  or  note, 
who  both  understood  the  question  and  embraced  the  principle, 
— as  he  publicly  expounded  and  defended  it,  with  admirable 
ability — was  the  Hon.  and  Ptev.  Baptist  W.  Noel,  then  minister 


534  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISKUPTION. 

of  St.  John's  Ohapel,  Bedford  Row.  How  far  he  was  consistent, 
as  the  minister  of  a  Church  so  ostentatiously  Erastian  as  the 
Church  of  England,  in  speaking  and  writing  as  he  did,  it  is 
needless  now  to  inquire.  He  was  not  long  in  vindicating  his 
consistency,  and  that  at  great  cost,  by  acting  on  his  convic- 
tions, and  joining  the  ranks  of  the  Nonconformists.  He  was 
one  of  the  most  estimable  and  lovable  of  men,  whose  "  memory 
is  blessed." — Several  other  clergymen  (all,  without  exception, 
of  the  Evangelical,  or  "Low  Church"  school),  expressed  their 
sympathy  (afterwards),  not  only  in  words,  but  in  deeds,  among 
whom  it  is  pleasant  to  record  the  names  of  Mr.  Mortimer,  of 
Gray's  Inn  Road  Chapel,  London  ;  Mr.  Oswald  Mosley,  the 
Vicar  of  Birmingham  ;  Mr.  Wilson,  the  Vicar  of  Southampton  ; 
and  last,  not  least,  Mr.  Edward  Bickersteth.  Still,  as  might 
have  been  anticipated,  there  was  no  substantial  help  to  be 
looked  for  from  that  quarter,  and  the  leaders  were  not  long  in 
discovering  that  it  was  so. 

"  Then  "  (Mr,  B.  goes  on  to  say),  "  they  turned  to  the  Non- 
conformist Gentiles,  and  found  (some  of  them  to  their  glad 
surprise),  that  here, — here  almost  exclusively,  warm  sympathy 
and  active  aid  were  to  be  found.  Not,  however,  from  some 
of  them  in  a  very  great  hurry.  To  an  English  mind,  Scotch 
ecclesiastical  principles  do  not  lie  on  the  surface,  and  many  a 
man,  when  he  fishes  for  them,  catches  a  crab  from  which  he 
never  extricates  his  line.  It  was  patent  to  any  English  Non- 
conformist that  ministers  ought  not  to  be  intruded  upon  re- 
claiming congregations,  just  as  confessedly  patent  in  some 
cases,  as  the  sentiment  which  dictates  the  grand  old  cry,  '  No 
Popery.'  It  was  plain,  too,  that  civil  authority  should  not 
rule  the  Church.  But  the  pazzle  became  intensely  perplexing 
to  easy-thinking,  easy-going  people,  when  this  latter  proposi- 
tion was  predicated  of  an  Established  Church,  claiming  to  be 
both  rightfully  established,  and  rightfully  independent  of  the 
State. 

"  It  came  to  pass,  however,  that  enlightened  by  successive 
deputations,  the  real  leaders  of  Nonconformist  opinion  and 
activity,  even  before  the  Disruption  took  place,  enlisted  heartily 
in  the  cause  which   stirred   so   deeply  the  hearts  of   Scotch 


LONDON  REMINISCENCES,  1843.  535 

churchmen. — But  here  I  must  distinguish.  I  have  no  hesita- 
tion in  placing  in  the  van,  the  Wesleyan  body,  and  its  leaders. 
It  is  a  fact,  and  it  ouglit  to  be  a  part  of  the  history,  that  they 
were  the  first  to  listen,  consider,  and  approve,  and  then  most 
vigorously  to  act,  as  best  they  could.  I  claim  no  credit  for 
them.  Their  position  was  freer  than  that  of  other  Noncon- 
formists. With  that  intense  practical  instinct  which  is  charac- 
teristic of  them,  they  set  themselves  to  inquire  what  it  was  all 
about,  whether  they  ought  to  help,  and  if  so,  how.  Further, 
they  had  no  general  disposition  to  weaken,  or  embarrass  Esta- 
blished Churches, — much  less  to  pull  them  down, — while  they 
were  entirely  free  from  their  control,  and  were  almost  nervously 
sensitive  as  to  their  undue  influence.  As  to  the  formation  of 
the  pastoral  tie,  indeed,  their  system,  at  the  first  blush  of  it, 
seemed  contrary  to  that  contended  for  in  Scotland  ;  but  at  its 
very  foundation,  when  it  came  to  be  looked  at,  there  lay  the 
popular  veto.  As  to  spiritual  independence,  who  but  world- 
lings dispute  it  ?  As  to  the  compatibility  of  spiritual  inde- 
pendence with  the  establishment  of  the  Church  insisting  on  it, 
they  were  convinced  that  such  was  the  constitutional  and  legis- 
lative bargain  in  Scotland,  between  Church  and  State ;  that  the 
system  had  worked  well,  so  far,  and  so  long  as  it  had  worked 
at  all ;  and  that  when  thoroughly  worked,  in  one  of  its  essential 
features,  that  of  endowment, — as  for  instance,  in  the  case  of  the 
Irish  Presbyterians, — whatever  its  effect  might  have  been  on 
the  Church,  it  had,  to  say  the  least,  done  no  mischief  to  the 
State." 

Mr.  Bunting  then  proceeds  to  refer  to  the  actual  service 
rendered  by  the  Wesleyan  body,  as  "  the  most  considerate,  and 
best  persuaded  friends  of  the  movement,"  through  the  medium  of 
its  literary  organs — by  petitions  to  the  Legislature — by  the 
speeches  and  writings  of  its  most  distinguished  men,  and  pre-emi- 
nently by  the  devoted  zeal  of  his  own  venerable  father,  Dr.  Jabez 
Bunting,  to  whom  he  lovingly  refers  as  "the  friend  of  Chalmers, 
and  so  predisposed  to  listen  to  the  faintest  whisper  of  his 
voice."  All  he  says,  and  more  than  all,  on  this  head,  I  know 
to  be  true.  Dr.  Bunting  was  the  author  of  the  petition,  which 
in  name  of  the  Conference,  was  laid  on  the  table  of  the  House 


536  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISKUPTION. 

of  Commons.  I  heard  it  read  there  by  Mr.  Fox  Maule,  when  he 
presented  it,  and  I  remember  well  how  visibly  every  sentence 
and  syllable  of  it  seemed  to  tell  on  the  eagerly-listening  audi- 
ence ;  how  admirably  clear  and  cogent  it  was  ;  and  how,  within 
quite  a  moderate  compass,  it  set  forth  alike  the  facts  and  argu- 
ments of  the  case,  in  such  a  way  as  to  leave  nothing  to  be 
desired.  The  names  of  John  Beecham  and  George  Cubitt 
deserve  also  to  be  mentioned  with  gratitude  for  work  done  by 
them,  along  with  that  of  Thomas  Farmer,  Esq.  (Treasurer  of 
the  Wesleyan  Foreign  Missions),  whose  hospitality  before  the 
Disruption,  and  whose  gifts  after  it,  were  alike  munificent. 

If  the  other  Nonconformist  bodies  were  somewhat  shy  before 
the  event  (of  which,  like  many  people  nearer  home,  and  who 
should  have  known  better,  they  were  somewhat  incredulous),* 
they  made  up  amply  for  their  shyness  by  the  overflow  of  their 
kindness  and  cordiality,  afterwards. 

To  this  also,  Mr.  Bunting  bears  willing  testimony  : — "  In 
cordiality  of  co-operation,  the  leaders  of  the  Congregational 
and  Baptist  bodies  were  by  no  means  excelled  even  by  the 
"Wesleyans.  Binney,  like  all  other  great  men,  growing  more 
candid  and  tolerant  of  the  position  and  opinions  of  others, 
every  day  he  lived;  Raffles,  with  his  straightforward  good 
sense,  and  affectionate  geniality  of  temper ;  Parsons,  a  Puritan 
of  the  best  modern  type  ;  those  and  men  like  those,  were 
foremost  in  kindly  service."  With  the  above-named  honoured 
fathers,  I  have  pleasure  in  associating  Dr.  Andrew  Reed,  and 
Dr.  John  Leifchild  of  London,  Mr.  Angell  James  of  Birming- 
ham, and  Mr.  Adkins  of  Southampton,  than  whom,  none  of  the 
many  Congregational  brethren,  whose  acquaintance  I  had  the 
happiness  of  making,  were  more  hearty  in  their  sympathy,  or 
more  energetic  in  their  efforts  to  enlist  the  sympathy  of  others  in 
our  behalf.     Among  the  Baptists  I  remember  best  Dr.  Cox  of 

*  One  of  my  own  co-presbyters  assured  me,  in  the  month  of  March,  that 
not  more  than  six  men  would  come  out ;  another,  more  given  to  prophetic 
calculation,  insisted  there  would  be  only  two,  and  that  one  of  the  two  M^as 
so  clever,  that  if  there  was  a  loophole  open,  he  would  certainly  go  in 
again.  On  my  expressing  the  belief  that  there  would  be  nearer  six 
hundred  than  six,  I  was  told  that  I  had  taken  leave  of  my  senses. 


LONDON  EEMINISCENCES,  1843.  537 

Hackney,  and  Mr.  Andrew  Fuller  (son  and  name-son  of  a 
much  revered  father),  as  having  warmly  espoused  our  cause. 

What  the  Manchester  Committee  did, — when  the  time  came 
not  for  argument,  but  for  action, — let  Mr.  Bunting  again  tell. 

"  I  have  no  access,"  he  says,  "  to  the  vast  heap  of  papers 
which  were  it  worth  while  would,  if  still  extant,  record  the 
extensive  action  of  that  busy  time,  nor  can  I  tell  even  its 
pecuniary  results.  Enough  to  say,  that  in  every  county  of  Eng- 
land, and  in  the  innermost  recesses  of  each,  a  system  of  public 
sermons  and  meetings  was  arranged  and  perseveringly  pur- 
sued, which  set  English  Nonconformity  in  a  blaze. 

"  The  campaign  commenced  in  Manchester.  What  a  force 
was  that  which  came  to  help !  Guthrie,  Buchanan,  Begg, 
and  a  host  of  English  ministers  (interchanging  pulpits),  by 
public  collections  made  in  almost  every  Evangelical  Noncon- 
formist Chapel  raised  £800  in  that  city  on  one  memorable 
Sabbath  day.  Then,  Manchester  itself,  and  the  neighbouring 
towns  were  saturated  with  public  meetings.  Buchanan,  with 
insinuating  clearness  explained.  Begg  thundered,  yet  always 
with  a  downfall  of  healthful  rain.  Makgill  Crichton  with  such 
vehement  eloquence  asserted  his  principles  that  people  hardly 
dared  question  them.  Then  Guthrie,  that  great  genius  of 
universal  oratory,  played  and  pleaded  till  large  congregations, 
in  consentaneous  laughter  or  tears,  were  overwhelmingly  con- 
vinced. 

"  There  were  some  curious  expressions  of  sympathy.  In  one 
large,  but  not  very  civilised,  town,  a  thistle  in  a  flower-vase  was 
placed  conspicuously  on  the  table  at  which  the  chairman  sat, 
and,  after  devotional  exercises,  the  people  insisted  on  singing, 
'  Scots  wha  hae  wi'  Wallace  bled ' !  I  remember  how  at  the 
Kochdale  meeting,  John  Bright,  not  professing  to  be  very  deep 
in  the  mystery  of  the  contention,  enjoyed  it  all  the  same,  made 
a  short  but  serviceable  speech,  and  gave  us  £25." 

At  Southampton  (it  may  be  mentioned  here,  as  a  parallel  to 
the  Scotch  thistle)  the  Mayor  of  the  city,  Mr.  Andrews  (Coach- 
builder  to  the  Queen),  on  occasion  of  an  annual  entertainment 
which  he  was  in  the  habit  of  giving  to  his  employes  and  other 
citizens  (the  day  of  which  celebration  happened  to  be  on  the 


538  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

Monday,  after  our  public  meeting  and  the  pulpit  services  of  the 
Sabbath),  had  his  large  saloon,  where  the  banquet  was  being 
spread,  decorated  with  banners — these  banners  bearing  inscrip- 
tions large  enough  to  be  legible  by  every  passer-by  on  the  street, 
— and  of  these,  four  in  number,  that  one  which  was  most  con- 
spicuous, and  which  seemed  to  attract  universal  notice,  was  the 
one  which  had  to  do  neither  with  England,  Ireland,  nor  Wales, 
nor  "  All  the  world,"  besides,  but  with  Scotland  alone,  and  the 
"  Justice  "  due  to  it — "  A  Free  Church  for  Scotland." 

I  had  a  pleasant  interview  with  Mr.  Andrews,  as  well  as  a 
kind  invitation  to  the  banquet ;  nor  did  he  fail  to  swell  by  his 
contribution  the  very  handsome  amount  which  had  been  already 
received — larger,  I  was  told,  than  had  ever  gone  from  South- 
ampton before  for  any  religious  purpose,  even  the  Bible  Society 
itself — not  much  short  of  £200. 

Mr.  Bunting  goes  on  to  mention  the  names  of  the  deputies 
with  whom,  as  they  passed  through  Manchester,  he  had  pleasing 
intercourse,  most  of  whom  stayed  a  night  or  two  at  his  house,  and 
left  hallowed  memories  behind — such  men  as  Drs.  Julius  Wood, 
Kobert  Elder,  Alexander  Beith,  Kobert  Macdonald,  William 
Hetherington,  William  Hanna,  Thomas  Main,  &c.;  with  such 
elders  as  James  Crawford,  George  Meldrum,  and  George  Lyon. 
"  Candlish,"  he  says,  "  was  much  wanted  at  home,  but  he  came 
on  rare  occasions." 

One  of  these  occasions  was  when  an  attempt  was  to  be  made 
to  storm  the  University  of  Oxford, — Mr.  Bunting  himself,  along 
with  Mr.  George  Lyon,  of  Glenogil,  having  gone  as  a  deputation 
beforehand  to  feel  the  way,  and  make  necessary  arrangements. 
"  We  enlisted,"  he  says,  "  the  aid  of  all  the  Nonconformists  of 
the  town,  and  arranged  for  a  public  meetmg.  Candlish  was  to 
come  as  one  of  the  preachers  and  speakers,  and  had  prepared  a 
sermon  such  as  no  other  modern  preacher  could  prepare,  on 
Christian  ethics — a  sermon  which  was  afterwards  published  as 
an  article  in,  I  think,  the  first  number  of  the  North  British 
Review.  We  had  got  hold  of  the  town,  but  we  had  no  kind  of 
access  to  the  University.  Not  a  Don  could  be  got  to  sympathise 
with,  or,  indeed,  to  patiently  hear  us.  We  had  to  resolve  to 
trust  to  the  chance  of  the  undergraduates  attending  the  public 


LONDON  EEMINISCENCES,  1843,  539 

meeting. — We  were  dining  merrily  at  the  *  Mitre,'  two  or  three 
hours  before  the  time  when,  having  completed  our  task,  we  had 
arranged  to  take  our  departure,  when  the  waiter  brought  in  a 
very  polite  note  from  the  Vice-Ohancellor,  requesting  the  deputa- 
tion from  Scotland  to  call  on  him  next  morning  at  nine.  We 
arranged,  however,  to  call  on  him  that  evening.  At  nine 
punctually  we  waited  on  him.  There  was  nothing  to  dread  from 
his  appearance.  A  small-built  man,  with  silver  hair  ;  his  face 
wearing  a  pleasant,  post-prandial  bloom,  not,  however,  too 
highly  coloured,  every  inch  that  was  of  him  gentlemanly  and 
refined,  with  a  pleasant,  perplexed  air  bowed  us  into  our  seats 
and  took  his  own.  He  was  positively  unable  to  commence  the 
conversation,  and  the  Englishman"  (of  the  deputation),  "when  he 
saw  how  the  land  lay,  began  with  an  apology  for  the  hour  of 
call.  Still,  though  smoothing  by  every  phrase  of  politeness, 
the  way  for  what  was  to  be  said,  the  high  dignitary  paused. 
Again  he  had  to  be  helped.  He  was  told,  what  he  very  well 
knew,  that  we  were  the  deputation  from  Scotland  which  had 
arranged  for  a  public  meeting  in  the  town,  in  the  course 
of  a  week  or  two.  It  would  be  impossible  to  caricature 
what  followed.  '  Yes,  gentlemen,'  he  started,  '  oh  yes,  I 
am  quite  aware ;  but,  in  the  present  circumstances  of  the 
University, — the  Bishop  of  Exeter,  you  know, — I  hardly  think 
— do  you  think  ? '  We  quite  understood  what  both  of  us 
thought,  but  it  was  hard  to  answer  him.  We  did  our  best, 
but  could  get  nothing  out  of  him  but  half-finished  sentences 
about  the  circumstances  of  the  University,  and  the  Bishop  of 
Exeter ;  and  as  to  what  he  thought,  and  whether  we  did  not 
think.  We  took  courage  at  last ;  conciliatorily  admitted  that 
we  could  not  expect  him  to  express  any  approbation  of  our 
intended  proceedings  ;  but  felt  sure  that  if  he  did  not  approve, 
he  would  not  prohibit.  But,  no!  'He  hardly  thought  in  the 
present  circumstances  of  the  University,  and  the  Bishop  of 
Exeter,  we  knew, — he  could  avoid  prohibiting  it,  and  he  did 
prohibit  it, — and  didn't  we  think  ? '     So  we  left  him, — and  a 

pleasant  murmur  of  '  Circum Uni •  Ex Hard, 

Think,'  wafted  us  to  the  door.  .  .  .  The  great  meeting,  at  which 
Candlish  was  to  inform  and  inflame  the  great  University  of 


540  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

Oxford,  was  held  in  a  Dissenting  chapel — a  place  to  which,  in 
those  days,  no  undergraduate  would  resort.  How  much  Free 
Churchism  has  been  talked  at  Oxford  since  that  time  !" 

A  similar  attempt  had,  before  this  time,  been  made  on  Cam- 
bridge, by  the  same  two  valiant  men,  with  as  little  success,  inside 
the  University,  but  with  much  more  success  without.  The 
Eegius  Professor  of  Greek,  who  was  waited  on  as  the  reputed 
head  of  the  Evangelical  Churchmen,  both  in  the  University  and 
town  (Charles  Simeon's  successor),  though  quite  as  polite  as  the 
Vice-Chancellor,  was  no  less  peremptory  in  his  refusal  either  to 
discuss  the  question  with  his  visitors  (pleading  a  providential 
cold),  or  to  countenance  their  intended  proceedings.  Nothing 
daunted  by  their  repulse,  the  deputies  resolved  to  call  a  meet- 
ing of  the  undergraduates,  without  other  patronage  than  that 
which  they  had  already  secured  from  the  mayor  of  the  city  and  the 
Nonconformist  clergy.  It  was  a  brave  thing  to  do ;  and  to  Mr. 
Lyon  chiefly  belonged  the  credit  of  having  pluck  enough  both 
to  make  the  proposal  and  to  go  through  with  it.  A  large  room 
in  the  Hotel  was  the  place  of  meeting,  and  two  o'clock  P.M.  was 
the  hour.  "  At  five  minutes  to  two  not  a  creature  had  entered 
the  room,  but  as  the  clock  struck,  hundreds  of  undergraduates 
swarmed  from  the  adjoining  colleges,  and  in  an  instant 
sat  with  eyes  fixed  on  the  speaker  at  the  rostrum.  He 
began  admirably — best,  like  most  Scotchmen,  at  the  begin- 
ning. For  perhaps  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  he  had  given  a  very 
succinct,  and,  so  far  as  history  tells  truth,  accurate  account  of 
the  Scotch  Reformation,  when,  suddenly,  a  clear,  sharp  voice 
ranor  out  from  the  further  end  of  the  room  with  the 
question,  '  Who  killed  Archbishop  Sharp  ? '  The  Englishman 
trembled  for  fear ;  but  he  will  never  forget  the  air  of  subdued 
penitence  and  pain  with  which  Lyon,  crossing  one  arm  on 
his  breast,  answered  the  question — '  Gentlemen,'  said  he, 
*no  one  can  possibly  regret  that  unfortunate  circumstance 
more  than  I  do.'  There  was  a  round  of  immense  applause, 
and  the  lecture,  capitally  conceived,  expressed,  and  delivered, 
concluded  with  a  demonstration  quite  as  hearty  as  the  first. 
Then  rose  a  young  man  (I  am  bound  to  confess,  previously 
instructed  what  to  do  in  case  of  emergency,  and  notwithstand- 


LONDON  REMINISCENCES,  1843.  541 

ing  no  emergency  had  arisen),  and  asked  whether  the  principles 
for  which  the  lecturer  had  contended  were  not  substantially 
identical  with  those  for  which  the  Bishop  of  Exeter  was  con- 
tending in  the  Church  of  England  ?  A  very  cautious  reply  in 
the  affirmative  brought  the  house  down,  and  Lyon,  that  day, 
was  the  most  famous  man  in  the  University.  And  I  do  not 
know  what  good  seed  was  that  day  sown,  or  has  since  sprung 
up  a  hundredfold." 

The  Presbytery  of  London  now  includes  a  "  Preaching 
Station"  at  Cambridge,  the  success  of  which  encourages  the 
hope  of  its  soon  becoming  a  fixed  charge.  Doubtless,  the  afore- 
said meetings  had  not  a  little  to  do  with  the  origination  of  it. 

So  much  for  the  Manchester  Committee  and  the  movements 
emanating  therefrom.  We  return  now  to  London.  The  duty 
that  devolved  on  the  London  Committee  was  to  supplement  the 
work  of  the  central  body,  hailing  from  Manchester,*  and  to  look 
after  those  places  in  town  or  country  which  they  had  been 
unable  to  overtake.  Thus  it  came  to  pass  that,  along  with  one 
or  more  deputies  from  Scotland,  I  was  despatched,  generally 
on  short  notice,  to  such  places  as  Walworth,  Stepney,  Ken- 
sington, Paddington,  and  Battersea  (suburbs  of  London),  to 
preach;  or  to  Chelmsford,  Gravesend,  Southampton,  York, 
Chester,  StaflFord,  and  Birmingham,  to  address  public  meetings. 

Many  are  the  pleasing  recollections  connected  with  all  those 
places — so  warm  and  cordial  everywhere  were  both  ministers 
and  people ;  with  none  of  them  more  than  with  Birmingham. 
There,  associated  with  my  friend  and  fellow-townsman.  Dr. 
Davidson,  of  Lady  Glenorchy's,  our  mission  was  simply,  in  the 
first  instance,  to  reconnoitre,  with  a  view  to  subsequent  pro- 
ceedings, it  being  considered  doubtful  whether  it  would  be 
expedient  at  that  time,  when  Chartism  was  rampant  and  rough, 
to  attempt  a  public  meeting.  The  first  thing  we  did,  accord- 
ingly, was  to  announce  an  exposition  of  the  principles  of  the 
Free  Church  in  the  small  place  of  worship  then  known  as  the 
"  Scots'  Church,"  Broad  Street,  on  a  week-day  evening.  Before 
the  hour  of  meeting  the  place  was  crammed,  but  no  one 
appeared  to  bid  us  welcome,  with  the  exception  of  one  courteous 
*  Organised  and  for  several  months  worked  by  Mr.  Bunting. 


542  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

elderly  gentleman,  who  introduced  himself  as  Aldemian  James 
James  (brother  of  the  well-known  minister),  who  said  he  had 
come  for  information,  that  all  his  sympathies  were  with  us,  and 
that  if  his  impressions  of  the  goodness  of  our  cause  were 
confirmed  by  what  he  heard  at  the  meeting,  he  would  be  glad 
to  be  of  service  in  any  way,  with  a  view  to  a  larger  movement 
than  could  be  then  originated,  and  that,  being  Mayor  of  the 
town,  he  would  willingly  take  the  chair  at  any  public  meeting 
that  might  be  called. 

It  turned  out,  by-and-by,  that  Mr.  J.  A.  James  was  in 
the  body  of  the  meeting  while  we  were  addressing  it.  He 
abstained,  however,  from  showing  himself  till  he  saw  what 
the  temper  of  the  audience  appeared  to  be,  and  what  the  likeli- 
hood of  success  in  proposing  any  further  demonstration. 
Appearances  being  favourable,  he  rose  from  a  back  bench, 
where  the  noisiest  part  of  the  audience  was  (as  though  he  had 
been  one  of  them),  and,  after  skilfully  anticipating  the  objec- 
tions and  diflaculties  that  might  be  felt  by  Dissenters  and 
Voluntaries,  like  himself,  who  had  been  accustomed  to  identify 
all  Establishments  of  religion  with  oppression,  injustice,  and 
abuse,  and,  stating  them  somewhat  strongly,  he  went  on  to 
show  that  these  were  not  such  as  to  justify  their  looking  coldly 
on  the  great  movement  in  Scotland,  or  withholding  their 
sympathy  and  help.  He  put  the  case  of  the  Wesleyan  body, 
who  held  the  Establishment  principle  as  firmly  as  did  the  Eree 
Church,  and  making  the  supposition  that  they  (the  ministers  of 
that  body),  by  the  wrongous  interpretation,  or  application,  of 
John  Wesley's  trust-deed  in  the  courts  of  law,  should  be  all 
ejected  in  one  day  from  their  chapels  and  stripped  of  their 
property, — (quite  a  conceivable  thing),  "would  not  the  hearts 
and  the  homes  of  all  Christian  people  in  England,"  he  asked, 
"  be  open  to  succour  and  shelter  them  ? "  Even  so,  and  yet  more, 
were  they  not  bound  to  show  the  like  sympathy  with  their 
brethren  in  Scotland,  from  the  closer  relationship,  in  various 
respects,  between  English  Nonconformity  and  Scottish  Presby- 
terianism,  and  from  the  close  historical  connection  between  the 
struggles  of  their  Puritan  forefathers  and  the  brave  Covenanters 
of  old  whose  descendants  the  Free  Churchmen  of  Scotland 


LONDON  REMINISCENCES,  1843.  543 

claimed  to  be  ?  His  proposal  of  a  great  meeting  in  the  Music 
Hall,  under  the  presidency  of  the  Mayor,  was  thereafter  carried 
by  acclamation. 

In  due  time,  accordingly,  the  meeting  took  place,  and  the 
four  men  whom  Mr.  James  bargained  for  as  deputies  having 
been  all  secured — viz.,  Drs.  Cunningham,  Guthrie,  and  James 
Hamilton  (whom  he  dubbed  "the  Macaulay  of  Evangelical 
Literature  "),  with  Mr.  Maitland  Makgill,  it  proved  quite  as 
great  a  success  as  he  assured  us  it  would  be.  His  owii  address 
on  that  occasion  he  closed  with  these  weighty  words,  "  In  my 
view,  the  Disruption  is  one  of  the  greatest  events  of  modern 
times,  and  that  man  must  have  the  eye  of  futurity  who  would 
pretend  to  set  limits  to  its  influence  and  tell  where  and  how  the 
effects  of  it  shall  extend !" 

The  financial  result  of  the  whole  "raid"  on  England,  as 
reported  at  next  General  Assembly  (1844)  by  Dr.  Tweedie  (my 
much  esteemed  predecessor  in  London  Wall),  who  was  con- 
vener of  the  "  Committee  on  English  Deputations,"  amounted  to 
£27,689,  Is.  9^d. 


544  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 


XXXIX.  Ireland  and  America. 

Of  the  sister  Churches  who  came  to  the  aid  of  the  Free  Church, 
the  first  to  stretch  out  a  helping  hand  was  the  Presbyterian 
Church  of  Ireland.  On  the  morrow  of  the  Disruption,  within 
twenty-four  hours  after  the  event,  a  deputation  of  Irish  brethren, 
with  Professor  Killen  at  their  head,  appeared  in  Tanfield  to 
offer  their  cordial  greetings,  which  they  did  in  warm  and  eloquent 
terms.  They  had  come,  they  said,  commissioned  to  represent 
their  own  Irish  Church  at  the  General  Assembly  of  their  Mother 
Church,  the  Church  of  Scotland.  Their  first  business  after 
landing  on  these  shores  was  to  inquire  where  that  Church  was 
now  to  be  found.  They  knew  the  distinctive  features  by  which 
she  was  to  be  recognised,  as  these  had  been  delineated  in  her 
standards  and  realised  in  her  history.  Their  inquiry  after  these 
had  guided  them  in  their  search,  and  it  was  at  Tanfield,  in  the 
General  Assembly  of  the  Free  Church,  they  had  found  what 
they  sought.  It  is  true  you  have  not  the  representative  of 
earthly  royalty  among  you.  We  do  not  hear  your  meetings 
announced  by  the  sound  of  martial  music,  or  the  tramp  of 
soldiery  ;  but  what  we  see  is  the  distinct  recognition  of  Christ 
as  King  and  Head  of  His  Church.  Such,  in  substance,  was 
their  introductory  statement  as  they  laid  their  credentials  on 
the  table.  We  rejoice  that  we  have  succeeded  in  our  search, 
and  we  tender  our  commission  to  you  as  the  Church  of  Scot- 
land ;  and  this  announcement  having  been  made,  they  pro- 
ceeded, in  the  most  fervent  spirit  of  Christian  brotherhood,  to 
address  the  Assembly. 

Thus,  on  their  own  responsibility,  they  had  passed  by  the 
Scottish  Establishment,  and  attached  themselves  to  the  Free 
Church.    Immediately  afterwards,  when  their  own  Assembly  met 


IRELAND  AND  AMERICA,  545 

at  Belfast,  the  step  which  they  had  taken  was  not  only  sustained 
and  sanctioned,  but  the  only  question  was,  how  best  to  follow 
up  what  had  been  done,  and  do  justice  to  the  feelings  with 
which  the  Irish  Church  regarded  their  brethren  in  Scotland. 
Mr.  Makgill  Crichton,  who  had  gone  to  represent  the  Free 
Church,  tells  how  they  took  up  the  matter,  as  if  the  cause  had 
been  their  own.  Not  content  with  giving  their  sympathies  and 
their  prayers,  not  even  content  with  calling  on  their  people  to 
contribute,  the  members  of  the  Assembly  proceeded  at  once 
themselves  to  raise  money  on  the  spot.  With  the  impulsive 
ardour  of  the  Irish  character,  they  put  down  their  names,  and  in 
one  night  nearly  £3000  was  subscribed.  When  the  deputation  of 
the  Free  Church  went  through  the  North  of  Ireland,  the  same 
spirit  was  displayed,  and  soon  the  amount  reported  was  £10,000, 
a  sum  that  was  afterwards  very  largely  increased.  As  one  of 
iheir  ministers  stated,  there  never  was  a  claim  made  on  the 
Irish  Presbyterians  which  was  so  heartily  responded  to. 

And  others  besides  the  Presbyterians  took  part  in  the  move- 
ment, even  the  Episcopalians,  to  some  extent,  giving  their  aid. 
One  of  their  number — the  Earl  of  Roden — who  was  as  pro- 
minent in  the  religious  circles  of  his  day  as  he  was  high 
in  worldly  rank,  deserves  special  notice.  Writing  to  the  Eev. 
James  Shields,  of  Newry  (19th  Aug.  1843),  he  says :  "  I 
assure  you  no  one  can  sympathise  with  these  good  men  who,  for 
conscience'  sake,  have  left  house  and  home  and  kirk  more  than  I 
do  ;  and  I  wish  it  was  in  my  power  to  contribute  more  largely 
to  your  fund  for  building  churches  in  which  they  might 
preach  the  Gospel  of  Christ.  But  I  am  grieved  to  say  the 
demands  upon  me  in  this  country  of  various  kinds  keep  me 
very  bare.  I  enclose  you  a  check  for  £10  as  a  token  of  my 
goodwill,  if  it  is  worth  having  ;  and  hoping  that  a  great  blessing 
may  attend  the  movement  by  the  spreading  of  the  Gospel  far 
and  wide. — I  am,"  &c. 

Another  conspicuous  movement  of  the  same  kind  was  the 
appeal  to  the  Churches  of  America.  Towards  the  end  of  1843, 
Dr.  Cunningham  went  out,  accompanied  by  Henry  Ferguson, 
Esq.,  an  elder  from  Dundee,  for  the  purpose  of  making  the  ca^e 

2  N 


546  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

of  the  Free  Cbiirch  known  to  our  American  brethren.  Other 
deputies  followed  to  take  part  in  the  work,  conspicuous  among 
whom  were  Dr.  Burns,  of  Paisley,  and  Professor  Chalmers, 
now  of  London.  A  series  of  meetings  was  held  in  the  leading 
towns,  at. forty  of  which  Dr.  Cunningham  delivered  addresses. 
Among  the  Presbyterians  the  greatest  interest  was  awakened, 
which  to  a  great  extent  was  shared  in  by  the  Congregation- 
alists,  Methodists,  and  Baptists.  The  story  of  the  Pree  Church 
was  told  to  listening  thousands ;  her  principles,  her  sacrifices, 
and  the  struggle  for  self-support  in  which  she  was  engaged 
were  fully  explained ;  and  everywhere  there  were  the  mani- 
festations of  the  deepest  interest  and  most  cordial  sympathy. 

"  The  only  difference  betwixt  us  in  matters  of  opinion,"  says 
Dr.  Cunningham,  which  was  brought  out  was  "  in  relation  to 
the  question  of  national  establishments  of  religion.  Even  in 
regard  to  this  there  was  not  so  much  difference  of  principle  as 
at  first  sight  might  appear.  It  is  true,  in  that  country  a  general 
horror  is  entertained  of  a  union  between  the  Church  and  the 
State ;  and  the  great  body  of  those  whom  you  meet  are  rather 
anxious  to  profess  their  abhorrence  of  any  such  union.  ,  .  . 
But  I  find,  at  the  same  time,  a  very  general  admission  of  the 
great  Scriptural  principle,  for  which  alone  we  contend,  that  an 
obligation  is  laid  on  nations  and  rulers  to  have  regard  to  the 
moral  government  of  God  as  supreme,  and  to  the  welfare  of 
the  Church  of  Christ.  Tlie  general  admission  of  the  doctrine 
is  all  that  we  care  about.  ...  I  need  scarcely  say  that  neither 
I  nor  any  of  my  colleagues  ever  concealed  or  compromised  our 
principles  in  regard  to  this  matter ;  .  .  .  and  I  think  it  right 
to  say  that  the  Churches  of  America  knew  full  well  that  we  do 
adhere  to  this  great  and  important  Scriptural  truth.  I  have 
not  seen  or  heard  anything  in  America  at  all  to  shake  my  firm- 
ness in  this  great  principle  as  a  principle  of  our  Church.  But  I 
have  seen  much  fitted  to  modify  the  impressions  which  some  of 
us  may  once  have  entertained  of  the  importance  of  State  assist- 
ance to  the  Church  of  Christ  and  to  the  cause  of  religion."  * 

It  is  interesting  to  observe  what  the  Americans  thought  of 
our  deputies.     Dr.  J.  W.  Alexander,  of  New  York,  speaks  of 
*  Blue  Book,  1844,  p.  C7. 


M 


m' 


DK.    CL'NMNGIIAM 


IRELAND  AND  AMERICA.  547 

Mr.  Ferguson.  At  first  he  had  felt  some  surprise  at  his  being 
sent,  especially  when  he  found  that  Chalmers  had  "  picked  him 
out.  But  my  wonder  ceased  when  I  heard  him  on  the  even- 
ing of  the  18th.  He  spoke  an  hour  and  three-quarters  by  the 
watch.  I  wish  it  had  been  twice  as  long.  In  the  first  half  of 
his  speech  he  erred  by  causing  too  much  laughter.  His  vis 
comica  is  amazing.  In  the  latter  part  he  rose  to  a  height  of 
passion  such  as  I  have  seldom  witnessed,  A  critic  would  have 
condemned  everything  in  the  elocution,  but  the  eloquence  was 
penetrating  and  transporting.  ...  As  he  rose,  his  diction  be- 
came elegant  and  sublime ;  and  yet  he  is  only  a  merchant  at 
Dundee."  * 

Of  Dr.  Cunningham,  the  same  writer  speaks  : — "  He  is  the 
most  satisfactory  foreigner  I  have  seen.  By  the  Scotch  papers 
I  perceive  he  ranks  among  the  first  four  or  five  of  the  Free 
Church.  Height  about  six  feet,  and  large  in  proportion — a 
stout  but  finely  formed  man,  very  handsomely  dressed,  and  in 
an  eminent  degree  the  gentleman  in  everythiug  but  in  excess  of 
snufi".  .  .  .  Powerful  reasoning  and  sound  judgment  seemed  to 
be  his  characteristics,  and  he  is  a  walking  treasury  of  facts, 
dates,  and  ecclesiastical  law.  I  heard  him  for  an  hour  on  Friday 
in  a  speech  to  the  students.  Indescribable  Scotch  intonation, 
but  little  idiom  and  convulsion  of  body,  but  flowing,  elegant 
language,  and  amazing  power  in  presenting  an  argument.  .  .  . 
He  is  a  powerful  fellow,  and  a  noble  instance  of  what  may  be 
done  without  any  pathos  or  any  decoration."  + 

Dr.  Hodge  speaks  of  him  in  private  intercom-se  : — "  He  was 
twice  at  Princeton,  and  on  both  occasions  made  my  house  his 
home.  He  was  a  man  whom  you  knew  well  as  soon  as  you 
knew  him  at  all.  He  revealed  himself  at  once,  and  secured  at 
once  the  confidence  and  love  of  those  in  whom  he  felt  confidence. 
I  do  not  recollect  of  ever  having  met  any  one  to  whom  I  was 
so  much  drawn,  and  for  whom  I  entertained  such  hish 
respect  and  so  warm  a  regard,  as  I  did  for  him  on  such  a  short 
acquaintance.  His  strength  of  intellect  and  force  of  character 
were  manifest  at  first  sight.  With  this  strength  was  combined 
a  winning  gentleness  of  spirit  and  manner  in  private  social 
*  Life  of  Dr.  Cunninghaui,  p.  203,  t  Ihid.  p,  205, 


548  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 

intercourse.  It  was,  however,  seen  to  be  the  gentleness  of  the 
lion  in  repose.  His  visit  was  one  of  those  sunny  spots  on 
which  whenever  I  look  back  on  life  my  eyes  rest  with  delight."* 

An  onlooker  has  described  the  meeting  with  Dr.  Hodge : — 
''  You  know  brother  Hodge  is  one  of  the  most  reserved  of  men, 
nor  is  a  first  acquaintance  with  him  generally  very  assuring  or 
very  attractive  to  strangers.  But  I  remarked  with  what  warmth 
and  cordiality  he  met  Dr.  Cunningham,  as  if  he  had  met  an  old 
friend  from  whom  he  had  been  long  separated.  And  it  was  so 
with  Cunningham  too.  The  two  greatest  theologians  of  the  age 
were  at  once  friends  and  brothers.  They  seemed  at  once  to 
read  and  know  each  the  other's  great  and  noble  mind."-j- 

In  his  report  to  the  General  Assembly,  J  Dr.  Cunningham 
stated  that  money  had  been  collected  to  the  amount  of  £9000, 
and  some  thousands  more  were  expected.  In  the  then  circum- 
stances of  the  country,  he  considered  this  a  liberal  contribution. 

But  more  important  by  far  was  the  impression  made  on  the 
American  Churches,  and  the  response  which  was  called  forth. 

"  I  confess  to  you,"  says  Dr.  Sprague,§  "  that  the  aggregate 
of  the  collection,  so  far,  is  not  by  any  means  what  I  think  it 
should  have  been,  and,  so  far  as  that  is  concerned,  I  feel  rather 
mortified  than  gratified  by  the  result ;  but,  though  we  may  not 
have  done  you  much  good,  I  am  sure  your  mission  has  been 
of  great  use  to  us." 

The  Princeton  Review,  one  of  their  leading  periodicals, 
states  : — "  We  doubt  not  that  the  clear  exhibition  of  this  truth 
[the  Headship  of  Christ],  by  the  Scottish  delegates,  will  be  a 
means  of  spiritual  good,  for  which  all  our  contributions  will  be 
a  most  inadequate  compensation.  Nay,  were  we  to  increase 
them  a  hundredfold  we  should  still  be  their  debtors,  if  only 
we  are  made  to  feel,  more  than  we  have  hitherto  done,  that 
Jesus  Christ  is  indeed  our  Lord.  It  is  this  more  than  anything 
else  that  has  interested  us  in  their  mission.  We  have  felt  under 
some  of  their  addresses  as  we  never  have  felt  before.  We  have 
had   clearer    views   of   the  intimate   connection   between   the 

*  Life  of  Dr.  Cunningham,  p.  206.  t  Ibid. 

X  Blue-Book  1844,  p.  71. 
§  Life  of  Dr.  Cunuin^iham,  p.  217. 


IRELAND  AND  AMEEICA,  549 

practical  recognition  of  Christ's  kingly  office  and  the  life  of 
God  in  the  soul,  and  we  think  we  see  one  of  the  principal 
sources  of  that  strength  of  character,  elevation  of  mind,  and 
constancy  in  trials  which  Scottish  Christians  have  so  often 
exhibited.  Let  any  man,  with  this  principle  before  his  mind, 
read  the  history  of  Scotland,  and  he  will  have  the  solution  of 
the  mystery  of  servant  girls  and  labourers  dying,  on  the  gibbet 
or  at  the  stake  for  a  question  of  Church  government.  Let  him 
contrast  the  bearing  of  Knox,  Melville,  or  Henderson  when 
they  stood  before  kings — we  will  not  say  with  the  slavish 
adulation  of  the  unworthy  bishops  of  King  James,  but — with 
the  spirit  of  such  good  men  as  Cranmer,  and  they  will  see 
the  difference  between  believing  that  Christ  is  King  and  believ- 
ing that  the  king  is  Head  of  the  Church."  * 

The  well-known  Moses  Stuart  was  drawing  near  his  end, 
and  writes  :  —  "I  am  nearly  worn  out"  ;  "deep  is  the  interest 
I  feel  in  your  undertaking.  Persevere.  It  is  the  cause  of 
truth  and  duty.  The  great  Head  of  the  Church  will  smile 
upon  it,  and  bless  you  sooner  or  later.  Never  I  never  !  commit 
the  precious  Church  to  the  hands  of  graceless  politicians."  -f* 

Dr.  Murray,  better  known  as  "  Kirwan,"  wrote  : —  "  Your 
example  in  Scotland  is  putting  new  life  into  the  religious 
world.  Switzerland  is  feeling  it, — India,  Canada,  all  America. 
Your  action  in  favour  of  a  free  Gospel  and  Church,  and  of  a 
living  Christianity,  will  tell  upon  the  world  throughout  unborn 
generations.  The  time  will,  perhaps,  come  when  I  can  look 
upon  your  Free  Assembly — then  I  shall  die  in  peace"  X 

Thus  in  various  ways  the  friends  of  the  Free  Church  in 
America  showed  their  cordial  feelings  in  her  favour.  But  there 
was  one  proposal  which  proved  more  strikingly  than  all  the  rest 
the  depth  of  their  sympathy  and  friendship.  Dr.  Cunningham 
had  been  telling  of  the  hardships  to  which  congregations  in 
Scotland  were  subjected,  when  he  was  met  with  the  following 
question :  "  Why  do  not  your  whole  seven  hundred  congrega- 
tions come  out  here  in  a  body,  and  settle  in  some  of  our 
Western  States  ?    .  .  .    The  Americans  generally  entertain  a 

*  Blue  Book,  1844,  p.  70. 
t  Life  of  Dr.  Cunningham,  p.  2]  4.  X  Ibid.  p.  214. 


550  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 

high  respect  for  the  Scotch  Presbyterians,  as  well  as  for  the 
Irish  Presbyterians,  wliom  they  distinguish  as  the  Scotch-Irish, 
and  I  have  met  many  persons  who,  without  any  joke,  but  in 
perfect  sincerity,  entertained  the  question  of  the  whole  Church 
coming  out  in  a  body  to  the  Western  States,  where  they  could 
get  as  much  land  as  they  choose — a  location  as  large  as  Scot- 
land itself,  if  they  required  it,  and  possessing  a  soil  of  great 
fertility.  .  .  ,  The  answer  I  gave  to  such  proposals  was  this — 
but  the  Assembly  may  give  a  different  one  if  they  choose — my 
answer  was,  that  we  could  not  consent  to  abandon  Scotland  to 
Erastians  and  Moderates,  and  from  the  many  tokens  we  experi- 
enced of  the  favour  of  God,  we  entertained  a  well-grounded 
hope  that  the  Free  Church  of  Scotland  would  be  honoured  in 
largely  promoting  the  cause  of  Christ,  and  be  a  blessing  to  the 
people  of  the  country." 


THE  CONTINENT.  555 

residence  could  be  got  in  the  parish,  and  the  exposure  which 
this  involved  brought  on  attacks  of  illness,  so  often  repeated, 
and  so  severe,  that  he  was  forced  to  part  from  his  people,  and 
seek  a  sphere  of  labour  in  some  milder  climate. 

Already,  while  yet  a  student,  he  had  spent  three  years  on  the 
Continent — one  of  them  in  Italy.  Just  at  the  time  when  his 
resignation  was  given  in,  a  minister  was  wanted  for  Leghorn, 
where  the  Free  Church  was  about  to  open  a  station,  a  committee 
of  ladies  in  Glasgow  having  undertaken  to  provide  the  funds. 
Dr.  Stewart  received  the  appointment,  and  was  settled  in  1845. 
In  the  first  instance,  his  pastoral  work  lay  amidst  the  English- 
speaking  residents,  the  sailors  in  the  port  also  receiving  a  great 
part  of  his  attention. 

On  leaving  Scotland  for  Italy,  however,  his  hope  had  been  to 
find  mission  work  among  the  Italians,  and  to  be  of  use  to  the 
Waldensian  Church,  in  which,  from  boyhood,  he  had  taken  the 
deepest  interest.  Year  after  year,  accordingly,  he  was  up  in  the 
valleys,  attending  the  meeting  of  their  Synod  as  representing 
the  Free  Church,  and  ready  at  all  times  to  give  them  his 
zealous  aid. 

But  it  was  after  the  great  political  changes  of  1862  had  fairly 
set  Italy  free  to  receive  the  Gospel  that  his  influence  was 
specially  put  forth.  In  1866  he  came  over  to  Britain  to  intro- 
duce Dr.  Eevel  and  Signor  Prochet,  asking  the  aid  of  English 
and  Scottish  Christians ;  and,  single-handed,  he  took  on  him- 
self to  a  large  extent  the  financial  burdens  of  the  Waldensian 
Church. 

For  the  congregation  in  Leghorn  itself,  he  raised  £1800. 
The  schools  in  connection  with  it  were  six  in  number,  attended 
by  800  scholars,  nine-tenths  of  them  belonging  to  Eoman 
Catholic  families.  They  were  superintended  by  himself  and 
Mrs.  Stewart,  and  the  greater  part  of  the  expense — £350  a-year 
— was  raised  by  him.* 

At  no  small  cost  he  provided  a  Grammar  school  at  Pomaret, 
Theological  Libraries  at  Florence  and  La  Tour,  and  annual  Bur- 
saries for  Theological  students. 

At  Florence  a  Theological  college  was  opened  in  the  Salviati 
*  Blue  Book,  1S72,  Eep.  vii.  p.  17. 


556  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

Palace,  aud  the  price,  amounting  in  all  to  £6846,  had  to  be 
found  by  him.  His  last  great  effort  in  the  way  of  pecuniary 
aid,  was  the  providing  of  the  Waldensian  Church  at  Rome, 
which  cost  £14,000. 

But  there  was  more  important  work  than  the  raising  of  funds. 
.When  the  Waldensians  launched  their  scheme  of  missions,  taking 
Italy  with  its  Popish  population  as  their  great  mission  field,  it 
was  Dr.  Stewart  who  counselled  and  guided  the  movement. 

When  the  Scottish  Bible  Society  entered  on  their  Italian 
work,  and  sent  forth  theii-  Colporteurs  to  circulate  the  Word  of 
God,  the  management  of  their  operations  devolved  on  Dr. 
Stewart,*  involving  an  amount  of  laborious  and  anxious  care 
which  few  would  have  been  willing  to  undertake. 

One  more  service  he  has  rendered  to  the  country  of  his 
adoption  in  preparing  a  commentary  on  the  Gospels,  a  large 
portion  of  which  has  already  apf)eared,  and  which  is  destined 
to  prove  a  signal  boon  to  those  Italians  who  have  few  oppor- 
tunities of  knowing  what  Evangelical  Protestant  literature 
really  is. 

For  the  first  five  years  Dr.  Stewart  stood  alone ;  but  Naples, 
Rome,  Florence,  Geneva,  Nice,  followed  one  after  another. 
Churches  were  built,  congregations  formed,  ministers  ordained, 
and  the  result  has  been  that,  owing  to  Dr.  Stewart  and  his 
work,  a  new  Presbytery  has  been  added  to  the  roll  of  the  Free 
Church. 

Assuredly  it  has  not  been  in  vain  that  the  former  minister  of 
Erskiue  was  led  to  leave  his  native  land,  and  induced  to  make 
the  evangelisation  of  Italy  the  great  work  of  his  life.  Among 
the  Waldenses  especially,  he  is  regarded  with  feelings  of  no 
common  gratitude.  "  You  claim  Dr.  Stewart  as  one  of  your- 
selves," said  Signor  Pruchet  at  the  General  Assembly  in  Edin- 
burgh,-}- "  bone  of  your  bone  and  flesh  of  your  flesh,  and  you 
may  well  do  so,  because  in  the  land  in  which  he  has  been  living 
for  thirty  years,  he  has  taught  not  only  the  Protestants  but  the 
Roman  Catholics  to  respect  and  esteem  Scotland  and  Scottish 
Protestants.  But,  if  you  claim  him  as  yours,  we  also  claim  him 
as  being  ours.  He  has  not  been  thirty  years  by  our  side,  not 
*  Blue  Book,  1869,  Rep.  vii.  p.  6.  +  Ibid.  1874,  p.  161. 


THE  CONTINENT.  557 

to  become  part  of  us.  It  is  true,  I  have  no  parchment  to  show 
to  you  with  the  name  of  Dr.  Stewart  saying  that  he  has  become 
a  citizen  of  the  Waldensian  Alps.  But,  if  ever  you  come  to 
those  valleys,  I  will  show  you  20,000  living  hearts,  upon  which 
his  name  is  written  in  characters  that  can  never  be  blotted 
out."  * 

Important  service  has  also  been  rendered  by  these  preaching 
stations,  which  are  kept  up  during  part  of  the  year.  The 
number  of  persons  on  the  Continent  speaking  English  is  great, 
and  constantly  increasing.  Besides  residents,  there  are  tourists 
invalids,  pleasure-seekers,  students,  governesses,  servants.  The 
Anglican  Church  is  not  unfrequently  in  the  hands  of  Eitualists, 
and  it  is  most  important  to  bring  within  the  reach  of  such 
classes,  religious  services  in  which  the  Gospel  is  faithfully 
preached. 

Our  hard-working  ministers  at  home  are  often  the  better  for 
the  change.  Where  health  is  failing,  and  strength  is  worn 
down,  great  benefit  is  often  derived  from  a  time  of  comparative 
rest,  and  men  return  to  their  homes  braced  and  invigorated  ;  all 
the  better  for  the  new  scenes  they  have  witnessed,  and  the 
Christians  belonging  to  other  Churches  whom  they  have  met. 

It  is,  indeed,  remarkable  how  the  Pree  Church  in  these 
stations  comes  in  contact  with  persons  of  many  different 
nationalities  and  denominations.  Those  who  never  enter  a  Free 
Church  at  home,  not  only  freely  join  in  her  services  abroad,  but 
in  many  cases  express  their  grateful  sense  of  the  privileges  en- 
joyed. "  I  think,"  says  Mr.  Fergusson  of  Leven,  "  I  had  on  one 
occasion  eight  or  nine  nationalities  in  the  audience  I  was  address- 
ing at  Montreux ' — an  example  of  what  is  going  on,  in  some 
degree,  at  the  other  stations.  It  is  something  to  send  men  back 
to  their  homes  in  different  parts  of  the  world  carrying  with  them 
a  friendly  feeling  in  favour  of  the  Free  Church  and  her  work. 
It  is  something  to  let  the  Roman  Catholics  of  those  countries  see 
the  true  unity  of  the  Church  when  Protestants  of  different  deno- 
minations prove  their  oneness  of  heart  in  worshipping  together, 
and  sitting  round  the  same  Communion  table.  It  brings  out 
*  Blue  Book,  1874,  p.  161. 


558  ANNALS  OP  THE  DISRUPTION. 

their  true  brotherhood  in  Christ,  as  opposed  to  the  external  and 
mechanical  unity  of  which  Popery  boasts.  But,  more  important 
still,  there  is  the  opportunity  of  preaching  the  Gospel  and  scat- 
tering the  good  seed  of  the  Word,  which  may  be  carried  to  the 
ends  of  the  earth.  Many  a  passing  stranger  has  been  refreshed, 
and  many  a  suffering  invalid  has  been  comforted,  and  borne 
grateful  testimony  to  the  benefits  they  have  received. 

Thus  an  intelligent  American,  Dr.  Buist,  states,  that  "in  almost 
every  town  on  the  Mediterranean  coast,  and,  indeed,  in  the  in- 
terior of  the  Continent  where  any  considerable  number  of 
English  people  sojourn,  there  is  found  a  preaching  station,  if 
not  an  organised  Free  Church.  I  was  surprised  to  find  the 
number  of  places  thus  occupied.  Travelling  over  those  Roman 
Catholic  countries,  one  is  scarcely  ever  out  of  sight  of  the  Blue 
Banner  of  Presbyterian  Protestantism,  thrown  to  the  breeze  by 
the  zealous  hands  of  the  Scottish  Free  Church.  These  stations 
are  intended,  in  the  first  place,  to  secure  for  resident  Scotchmen 
and  their  families  their  accustomed  privileges.  For,  go  where 
you  will,  Scottish  enterprise  has  gone  before  you,  and  Scotch- 
men have  made  themselves  a  home  where  you  are  still  a 
stranger ;  and  commonly  the  Scotchman  is  unwilling  to  remain 
long  in  a  place  without  enjoying  the  privileges  of  '  ordinances.' 
But  iiot  unfrequently  these  preaching  places  are  at  the  same 
time  missionary  stations,  for  operating  on  the  native  population." 

"  The  eyes  of  the  Churches  on  the  Continent,"  Dr.  Candlish 
exclaimed,  in  1847,  are  fixed  on  us.  I  cannot  imagine  that 
this  Church  wiR  abandon  the  glorious  work  which  God  has 
given  her  to  do. 

Yet  another  important  step  has  been  taken  in  brmging  over 
students  of  divinity  belonging  to  the  Continental  Churches  to 
study  in  our  Scottish  colleges.  The  Jewish  missionaries  in 
Hungary  and  Bohemia  had  come  in  contact  with  some  of  the 
more  promising  young  men,  and  it  occurred  to  them  that  much 
good  might  be  done  by  these  candidates  for  the  ministry  coming 
to  reside  and  study  for  a  time  in  our  divinity  halls.  A  living 
bond  of  mutual  sympathy  would  be  formed  with  these  young 
pastors,  through  whom  the  influence  of  the  Free  Church  would 
make  itself  felt  in  those  lands. 


THE  CONTINENT.  559 

Bursaries  were  accordingly  provided,  and  the  results  have 
proved  eminently  satisfactory.  Already,  in  the  Bohemian  and 
Hungarian  Churches,  there  has  been  raised  up  a  band  of  de- 
voted and  youthful  pastors,  who  speak  in  the  most  grateful 
terms  of  the  benefits  received  during  their  residence  in  the 
midst  of  us.  Besides  attending  our  divinity  halls,  they  have 
been  brought  in  contact  with  our  home  missions,  our  prayer 
meetings,  and  Sabbath  schools,  and  seen  the  different  methods 
in  which  our  Scottish  Churches  carry  on  their  work.  What  is 
still  more  important,  they  have  been  brought  in  contact  with 
religious  life,  as  seen  in  the  family,  and  in  the  intercourse  of 
society.  Many  of  them  have  spoken  with  the  deepest  gratitude 
of  the  impression  which  all  this  has  produced,  leading,  in  some 
cases,  to  a  complete  change  of  their  religious  views  and  feel- 
ings, and  conferring  lasting  benefits  on  their  souls. 

As  an  example,  we  may  refer  to  the  first  of  these  students 
who  came  from  Hungary, — Francis  Balogh, — now  Professor  of 
Church  History  in  the  University  of  Debreczin,  where  his 
lectures  are  attended  by  a  class  of  150  students: — "I  cannot 
say,"  he  states,  writing  in  English,  "what  an  edifying  thing  it 
is  to  me  to  read  something  about  your  state  and  advancement 
The  Polar  star  to  which  I  turn  is  your  Church.  There  I  re- 
ceived the  real  lasting  impression — the  evangelical  rays  which 
illumined  my  soul  since.  I  shall  be  for  ever  grateful  to  it.  As 
a  professor,  I  endeavour  to  spread  among  my  students  the 
evangelical  truth,  and  they  hear  me  with  satisfaction." 

The  Church  to  which  he  belongs  numbers  1400  congregations. 

Thus  quietly  and  earnestly  has  the  Free  Church  sought  to 
enter  through  those  doors  of  usefulness  which  God  in  His 
providence  has  opened  up  on  the  Continent.  Our  relations  with 
these  Churches  are  on  the  most  cordial  footing.  Instinctively  in 
times  of  difiiculty  they  have  learned  to  turn  to  the  Free  Church 
for  counsel  and  aid.  It  is  a  privilege  to  have  won  the  confidence 
of  so  many  of  these  faithful  men,  and  to  be  fellow-workers  with 
them  in  the  cause  of  God. 


560  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 


XLI.  The  Colonies. 

While  the  Ten  Years'  Conflict  was  going  on  in  Scotland,  its 
effects  soon  began  to  be  felt  in  Canada,  Australia,  and  wherever 
Presbyterianism  had  obtained  a  footing  in  the  Colonies.  Still 
hiore,  when  the  Disruption  had  actually  taken  place,  a  feeling 
of  keen  interest  was  awakened  among  the  Scotchmen  settled  in 
those  lands. 

There  were  some,  however,  to  whom  this  gave  serious  oflFence. 
Dr.  Norman  Macleod  complains  that  "  the  angry  spirit  of 
Churchism,  which  has  disturbed  every  fireside  in  Scotland, 
thunders  at  the  door  of  every  shanty  in  the  backwoods."  But, 
the  truth  is,  that  the  Colonial  ministers  who  adhered  to  the 
Scottish  Establishment,  had  themselves  to  blame  for  much  of 
that  keenness.  The  news  of  the  Disruption  had  acted  on  them 
like  a  charm.  Hundreds  of  pulpits  were  vacant  in  Scotland, 
and,  in  hot  haste,  men  left  their  Canadian  congregations,  and 
started  across  the  sea  eager  to  have  a  share  of  the  spoil.  Their 
congregations,  meantime,  did  not  like  it.  "  You  see,  sir,"  one  of 
the  people  said,  "  they  were  on  our  side,  but  Satan  took  them 
up  to  an  exceeding  high  mountain  and  showed  them,  across  the 
Atlantic,  empty  manses,  good  stipends,  and  comfortable  glebes 
in  Scotland,  and — they  fled  from  us."  *  It  was  natural  in  such 
circumstances  that  the  people  should  turn  to  those  who  now 
formed  the  Free  Church,  and  who  previously  had  done  so  much 
on  their  behalf. 

In  1825,  the  Glasgow  Colonial  Society  had  been  formed  for 
the  purpose  of  supplying  religious  ordinances  to  the  Canadians. 
Dr.  Burns,  of  Paisley,  had  been  the  very  life  and  soul  of  the 
movement,  ably  assisted,  however,  by  men  like  Dr.  Beith,  Dr. 

*  Blue  Book,  1846,  p.  125,  From  the  district  of  Pictou  alone,  there 
were  six  who  at  once  set  off. 


THE  COLONIES.  561 

Welsh,  Dr.  Henderson,  and  others  who  belonged  to  the  Evan- 
gelical party  in  the  Church.*  Their  operations  were  carried  on 
with  energy.  Not  a  few  of  the  most  promising  young  preachers 
were  sent  out — men  like  John  Bayne,  Matthew  Miller,  George 
Romanes,  "William  Eintoul — and  soon  the  Presbyterian  cause  in 
Canada  assumed  a  new  aspect.  Among  others,  they  had  all  but 
succeeded  in  sending  away  from  Scotland  Dr.  Qandlish,  then 
assistant  at  Eonhill.  He  had  been  actually  nominated  for  one 
of  their  stations,  when  circumstances  occurred  which  induced 
him  to  pause  before  closing  with  the  appointment.  This 
incident,  as  Dr.  Besg  remarked,  was  "  not  unlike  the  arrest  of 
Cromwell  when  about  to  sail  for  America,  and  it  strikingly 
illustrates  the  wonderful  way  in  which  God  overrules  the  desires 
of  His  servants,  and  marks  out  the  bounds  of  their  habitations."  -f- 
At  the  Disruption,  amidst  the  many  other  pressing  claims 
which  came  upon  the  Free  Church,  the  Colonies  were  not 
forgotten.  An  affectionate  address  was  sent  to  all  the  Synods, 
inviting  them  to  place  themselves  in  connection  with  the  Free 
Church,  and  assuring  them  that  the  work  would  be  carried  on 
with  not  less,  but  rather  with  greater,  zeal.  From  the  Synod  of 
Canada  there  came  a  courteous,  but  hesitating  reply.  There  was 
some  doubt  as  to  whether  the  proposed  change  of  connection 
would  not  involve  the  loss  of  their  Government  allowances. 
Ultimately  it  was  ascertained  that  if  the  vote  in  favour  of  the 
Free  Church  were  unanimous,  the  grants  would  be  continued ; 
but  if  the  Synod  divided,  all  the  money  would  go  to  those  who 
adhered  to  the  Scottish  Establishment.  Unanimity  was  found 
to  be  impossible,  and  the  result  was  that  in  July,  IS-i-i,  a 
Disruption  took  place.  By  a  majority  of  39  to  21  (23)  the 
Synod  resolved  to  continue  in  the  old  connection.  The  minority 
protested,  withdrew,  and  constituted  themselves  into  a  separate 
Synod,  taking  the  original  name,  "  The  Presbyterian  Church  of 
Canada,"  and  placing  themselves  in  fellowship  with  the  Free 
Church  of  Scotland. 

*  When  a  Colonial  Committee  was  afterwards  appointed  by  tlie  Church 
of  Scotland,  the  Conveuership  was  given  to  another,  and  Dr.  Burns  wuo 
passed  over.     There  was  a  feeling  in  some  quarters  that  this  was  unjust. 

t  Free  Church  Magazine,  iv.  p.  329. 

20 


562  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

In  Nova  Scotia  the  vote  went  the  other  way,  the  Synod,  by  a 
majority  of  two-thirds,  setting  itself  free  from  its  connection 
with  the  Established  Church  of  Scotland,  and  taking  a  position 
similar  to  that  of  the  minority  in  Canada. 

Very  cordially  did  the  Free  Church  at  once  stretch  out  a 
helping  hand  to  their  brethren.  The  Committee  which  was 
appointed  had  indeed  to  begin  their  work  with  an  empty 
exchequer,  but  they  went  on  in  the  faith  that  God  would  fill  it ; 
and  nine  months  afterwards  it  was  found  that  a  sum  of  £3619 
had  been  put  at  their  disposal.  A  single  incident  may  be 
mentioned  as  showing  who  they  were  who  all  along  had  been 
the  friends  of  these  Colonial  missions.  A  Ladies'  Committee  in 
connection  with  the  Church  of  Scotland  had  been  formed  in 
Edinburgh  for  the  purpose  of  collecting  funds  in  aid  of  the 
scheme.  In  1843,  it  appears  that,  without  a  single  exception, 
the  members  of  that  Committee  joined  the  Free  Church.* 

In  coming  to  the  help  of  the  Canadian  Churches,  the  first  step 
was  to  send  out  deputations.  Men  like  Dr.  Begg,  Dr. 
M'Lauchlan,  Mr.  Arnot  of  Glasgow;  Dr.  Alexander  of  Kirk- 
caldy ;  Dr.  Couper  of  Burntisland,  and  many  others  of  the  more 
able  and  devoted  ministers,  went  to  give  their  aid ;  and  all  over 
the  Provinces  there  was  a  busy  time  of  preaching,  consulting 
with  brethren,  addressing  meetings,  and  holding  intercourse 
with  the  people.  Of  all  these  deputies,  none  had  such  a  welcome 
as  Dr.  Burns  of  Paisley.  In  1844  he  had  gone  to  America, 
where  he  was  associated  with  Dr.  Cunningham  in  his  visits  to 
the  churches.  By  special  invitation,  he  was  induced  to  prolong 
his  tour  into  Canada,  where  he  had  many  friends.  Delegates 
from  the  various  churches  came  to  meet  him  at  Brockville  and 
Prescott.  "His  reception  was  most  enthusiastic.  He  was 
escorted  from  Brockville  to  Prescott  by  a  long  train  of  men  on 
horseback ;  and  men,  women,  and  children,  in  all  kinds  of 
waggons  and  carriages,  so  that  the  procession  extended  for 
upwards  of  half-a-mile.  In  fact,  his  reception  in  this  part  of 
Canada  was  like  a  military  triumph.'  '-f- 

In  reply  to  the  appeal  of  Dr.  Burns  and  his  fellow- deputies, 

*  Blue  Book,  Glasgow,  1843,  p.  102. 
t  Life  of  Dr.  Burns,  p.  186. 


THE  COLONIES.  563 

Mr.  Lewis  states :  "  The  Canadas  contributed  about  £2000  to 
the  Free  Church — a  plain  indication  that  the  heart  of  the 
people  is  toward  us." 

One  thing  urgently  pressed  from  the  outset  was,  that  the 
Colonists  should  set  up  theological  halls,  and  rear  a  native 
ministry  of  their  own.  A  grant  of  £200  was  voted  to  enable 
them  to  make  a  beginning  at  Toronto.  What  was  of  far  more 
importance,  Mr.  King  of  Glasgow — afterwards  Dr.  King  of 
Halifax — was  sent  to  supply  temporarily  one  of  the  pulpits,  and 
begin  a  divinity  hall.  His  work,  as  described  in  one  of  the 
local  newspapers,  was  singularly  successful.  In  church  it  is 
said,  the  people  hang  on  his  lips  with  the  deepest  attention, 
and  evidently  with  great  delight.  He  teaches  the  divinity 
students  five  days  a-week,  presides  at  the  prayer-meetings,  and 
takes  much  to  do  with  the  Sabbath  school.  When  not  in  the 
class-room  during  the  week,  he  is  visiting  the  sick,  &c,  "  It  is 
impossible  to  describe  the  attachment  of  the  people  to  their 
temporary  pastor."  * 

The  attendance  at  his  theological  classes,  also,  was,  from  the 
first,  encouraging.  Two  or  three  years  before,  a  college  had 
been  opened  at  Kingston  in  connection  with  the  Established 
Church,  which,  in  1844,  was  attended  by  seven  theological 
students ;  but  when  the  Disruption  (Canadian)  took  place,  six 
of  these  went  over  to  the  Free  Church.  At  Toronto,  Dr.  King- 
began  with  a  class  of  fourteen  young  men,  of  whose  talents  and 
diligence  he  speaks  in  high  terms. 

It  is  interesting  to  observe  how,  in  the  Eastern  provinces,  a 
similar  course  was  followed.  Mr.  Forrester,  formerly  of  Sorby, 
afterwards  of  Paisley,  had  gone  as  a  deputy  to  Halifax,  and  like 
Mr.  King  at  Toronto,  while  supplying  the  pulpit,  had  gathered 
round  him  a  band  of  students — sixteen  in  number — to  whom  he 
taught  theology.  The  commencement  was  so  full  of  promise, 
that  the  matter  was  taken  up  by  local  parties. -f-  The  Free 
Church  gave  their  aid.  The  Colonists  in  one  year  raised  £740. 
Dr.  King  was  appointed  first  Professor  of  Divinity,  and  the 
Presbyterians  of  the  three   Eastern  provinces  united   in  their 

*  IVitness  Newspaper,  19th  IMarch,  1845. 
t  Blue  Book,  1848,  p.  171. 


564  ANNALS  OP  THE  DISRUPTION. 

determination  to.  raise  a  native  ministry  from  among  them- 
selves.* 

No  less  energy  was  shown  in  other  departments,  and  soon 
the  results  began  to  appear.  In  the  Canadian  Synod,  instead 
of  the  twenty-three  ministers  of  1844,  there  were,  after  four 
years'  work,  seventy  ministers  in  settled  congregations,  besides 
a  hundred  separate  missionary  stations,  and  numerous  openings 
for  yet  further  extension.  "The  Church,"  said  Dr.  Willis,  "now 
numbers  seventy  ministers ;  but  I  am  perfectly  satisfied  that  it 
might  soon  number  three  times  that,  if  only  we  liad  a  due 
contribution  not  of  money,  but  of  men."  -}* 

More  important,  however,  was  the  step  taken  by  Dr.  Burns 
when  he  left  his  native  land,  joined  the  Theological  College  of 
Toronto,  and  threw  himself  into  the  work  of  the  Canadian 
Church.  He  had  long  held  a  prominent  position  in  Scotland  as 
one  of  the  Evangelical  party.  When  the  commercial  depression 
of  1816  and  1820  had  forced  many  of  the  Paisley  weavers  to 
emigrate,  the  cry  of  not  a  few  of  his  own  former  hearers  had  come 
to  him  from  the  backwoods  asking  the  bread  of  life.  In  response 
to  these  appeals  he  had  succeeded  in  instituting  the  Glasgow 
Colonial  Society  already  referred  to.  Ever  afterwards  the 
religious  interests  of  these  provinces  had  lain  very  near  his  heart ; 
and  now,  after  a  long  ministry  in  Paisley,  it  was  an  interesting 
spectacle  to  see  him  set  forth  resolved  to  spend  the  last  of  his 
days  in  the  work  of  training  young  ministers,  and  consolidating 
the  rising  Church  of  the  Colony. 

In  name  of  the  Colonial  Committee  Dr.  James  Buchanan 
wrote  bidding  him  farewell,  and  congratulating  him  on  the 
"  central  and  commanding  position  "  he  was  to  occupy,  whence 
"  an  evangelical  influence  might  emanate  over  the  whole  of 
Canada."  It  was  impossible,  he  said,  to  over-estimate  its  im- 
portance, and  "  it  is  a  source  of  heart-felt  satisfaction  to  us  all 
that  one  so  eminently  qualified  in  point  of  talent,  learning,  and 
piety,  has  been  found  willing  to  devote  himself  to  the  work." 

Dr.  Burns  was  far  advanced  in  life,  but  the  vivacity  and 
ardour  which  he  displayed  took  men  by  surprise.  It  is  a  noble 
thing,  said  Dr.  Begg,  that  Dr.  Burns  has  done,  leaving  his 
*  Blue  Book,  1849.  f  i^id.  1848,  p.  178. 


THE  COLONIES,  565 

native  country  at  his  time  of  life,  settling  in  a  distant  land,  and 
working  there  with  such  energy  and  zeal  and  untiring  vigour. 
"  It  is  in  the  highest  degree  honourable."*  "  I  saw  twenty-five 
students  under  his  care." 

As  might  have  been  expected  the  cause  of  theological  educa- 
tion continued  to  prosper.  In  one  year  the  Synod  collected  for 
their  college,  £1200.  Dr.  Willis,  of  Glasgow,  well-known  in 
Scotland  as  an  able  theologian,  was  appointed  Principal  and 
Professor.  In  1847  the  attendance  at  the  Divinity  Hall  was 
37,  in  1848  it  had  increased  to  43.  The  rising  generation  were 
giving  themselves  to  the  work  of  the  ministry.  In  1868,  when 
Dr.  Burns  addressed  the  General  Assembly  at  Edinburgh,  he  was 
able  to  state,  that  about  170  ministers  had  gone  forth  from  the 
Divinity  Hall  in  Toronto  to  join  the  ranks  of  the  Canadian 
Church,  -f- 

Everywhere  among  the  people  there  had  arisen  at  that  time 
an  eager  desire  for  Gospel  ordinances.  "  I  can  testify,"  says 
Dr.  Begg,  "  that  the  Disruption  in  Scotland  sounded  like  a  peal 
of  Gospel  truth  throughout  Canada,  and  over  the  whole  New 
World.  I  It  was  one  of  the  most  powerful  sermons  ever  preached 
— a  sermon  that  all  parties  could  understand.  A  most  excellent 
man  in  Canada  told  me — and  I  know  that  his  words  describe 
the  case  of  many  others — '  Why,  Sir,'  said  he,  '  the  first  thing 
that  made  me  think  of  Scotland  and  understand  its  church  was 
the  Disruption.'  It  has  filled  the  world  and  paved  the  way  for 
the  missionaries  and  ministers  of  our  Church." 

In  some  cases  the  warmth  of  denominational  zeal  came  out 
very  decisively,  and  as  might  have  been  expected  it  was  met 
with  especially  among  the  Highlanders.  On  a  late  occasion 
word  had  come  to  one  of  their  settlements  that  a  Gaelic  minister 
was  to  hold  a  service  forty  miles  from  where  they  lived,  and 
they  set  off,  some  of  them  carrying  their  infant  children  all  that 
distance,  along  almost  impassable  roads,  but  finding  on  their 
arrival  that  it  was  an  Established  Church  minister  who  was  to 
officiate,  they  simply  carried  their  children  home  again,  saying 
that  they  would  wait  for  a  minister  of  their  own  Church.  § 

*  Blue  Book,  1846,  p.  126.       f  Life  of  Dr.  Burns,  p.  458. 

X  Ibid.  1846,  p.  134.  §  Blue  Book,  1845,  Inverness,  p.  5. 


560  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

But,  ajDart  from  such  denominational  feelings,  the  Presbyterian 
population  all  over  Canada  had  been  greatly  stirred  up,  and  felt 
deeply  the  religious  impulse  of  the  time.  The  years  which 
followed  their  Disruption  of  1844  are  spoken  of  as  "  a  period  of 
awakening  zeal  and  quickening  spiritual  life  among  the  people." 
Long  afterwards  one  of  the  outgoing  Canadian  ministers  re- 
marks, "  These  were  glorious  times."  With  one  voice  the 
deputies  from  Scotland  declared  that  wherever  they  went  they 
were  received  with  open  arms — men  were  eager  to  listen  to  the 
Gospel  message,  and  all  over  the  country  there  was  the  promise 
of  abundant  spiritual  fruit,  Mr.  Macnaughtan  from  Paisley, 
indeed,  was  able  to  assure  the  Assembly  that  there  was  more 
than  the  promise.  In  Canada  East  "  they  can  point  to  special 
cases  of  conversion,  the  fruit  of  the  ministry  of  every  deputy 
without  exception  who  had  visited  those  parts."* 

Of  another  district  it  is  said,  "  The  Lord  has  been  pleased 
to  bless  the  labours  of  His  servants  very  peculiarly.  ...  A  time 
of  refreshing  from  the  presence  of  the  Lord  came,  and  almost  at 
the  same  time,  in  different  places  of  that  wide-spread  district, 
many  came  under  concern  for  their  souls.  The  whole  aspect 
of  the  people  was  changed,  they  eagerly  hastened  to  the  preach- 
ing of  the  word,  old  and  young  together  seemed  deeply  affected. 
Meetings  for  prayer  sprung  up  on  every  side.  Family  worship 
begun  where  it  had  never  been,  and  men  spake  often  one  to 
another  of  the  things  of  God.  The  impression  reached  over  a 
great  extent  of  country,  and  eye-witnesses  declare  that  you 
would  scarcely  have  gone  to  any  part  of  the  whole  district  with- 
out finding  ample  proof  of  the  remarkable  change."  •[• 

The  Disruption  in  Canada  was  thus  a  memorable  event 
leading  to  results  which  deserve  to  be  gratefully  recorded  in  the 
religious  history  of  the  country. 

In  the  more  distant  colonies  of  Australia  and  New  Zealand, 
the  course  of  events  may  be  more  briefly  noticed. 

At  first  the  Australian  Synod,  by  a  majority,  resolved  to 
adhere  equally  to  the  Scottish  Establishment  and  to  the  Free 
Church,!  but  finding  that  this  would  put  them  out  of  connection 

*  Blue  Book,  1848,  p.  180.  f  Ibid.  p.  172. 

I  Ibid.  1845,  p.  1C7. 


THE  COLONIES.  567- 

with  both,  they  resolved  to  continue  in  fellowship  with  the 
Establishment,  and  so  to  retain  their  Government  allowances. 
When  the  resolution  was  come  to  at  Sydney  (October,  184G)» 
after  a  painful  discussion  extending  over  three  days,  there  was 
a  Disruption.  Three  ministers — afterwards  joined  by  a  fourth 
— laid  their  protest  on  the  table,  retired  to  an  upper  room,  and 
there,  with  two  adhering  elders,  formed  themselves  into  the 
"  Synod  (Free)  of  Australia."  *  At  the  same  time  Mr.  Forbes, 
of  Melbourne,  resigned  his  State  connection,  and  the  following 
year  united  with  Mr.  Hunter,  late  of  Launcestown,  Mr.  Hastie, 
of  Buninyong,  and  Mr.  Gordon,  of  Adelaide,  in  forming  a  second 
Synod  in  the  south. 

They  were  certainly  a  small  company  to  lay  the  foundations  of 
the  Free  Presbyterian  Church  in  those  widely-extended  countries, 
but  it  was  wonderful  with  what  zeal  the  laity  took  up  the  cause. 

Of  the  Disruption  ministers  from  Scotland,  the  first  to  land 
on  these  shores  was  Mr.  Salmon  from  Paisley,  who  went  to 
Sydney.  No  sooner  was  his  arrival  known  than  he  wrote,  "  I 
have  letters  from  all  parts  of  the  country,  and  personal  calls 
from  settlers  urging  their  necessities  and  claims  on  the  Free 
Church.  At  one  place  the  people  are  chiefly  men  of  education, 
and  they  offer  at  once  to  build  a  manse,  and  ensure  an  mcome 
of  £800  a-year.  At  another,  some  wealthy  Scotch  settlers  had 
previously  raised  £220  to  build  in  connection  with  the  Establish- 
ment, but  they  at  once  transferred  their  contributions  to  the 
Free  Church,  and  one  of  them  gave  three-quarters  of  an  acre 
for  church  and  manse  with  garden,  and  when  I  saw  it,  the 
peaches,  plums,  and  nectarines  were  growing  luxuriantly." 
From  yet  another  place,  "  The  leading  man  called  on  me  this 
week.  He  had  built  a  beautiful  little  church  ;  the  Establish- 
ment party  expected  he  would  give  it  them,  but  he  told  me  he 
would  make  it  over  to  the  Free  Church  as  soon  as  we  could  give 
him  the  model-deed." 

Thus  the  Disruption  of  the  Scottish  Church  was  stirring  the 
hearts  of  men  to  the  ends  of  the  earth.  The  only  limit  to  the 
extension  of  the  Free  Church  seems  to  have  been  the  number 
of  men  whom  she  could  send  out. 

*  Blue  Book,  1847,  p.  102. 


568  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 

It  is  impossible  to  trace  here  the  future  progress  of  these 
Churches.  The  gold  discoveries  changed  at  once  the  whole 
aspect  of  the  colonies.  Men  flocked  in  thousands  to  the  centre 
of  attraction,  and  to  provide  them  with  the  means  of  grace  ten 
young  preachers  were  sent  out  in  1853,  having  at  their  head 
two  ministers  of  high  standing.  Dr.  Cairns  of  Cupar,  and  Dr. 
jMackay  of  Dunoon. 

When  Dr.  Cairns  arrived  in  Melbourne  he  was  welcomed  at 
a  public  meeting — one  of  the  largest  ever  held  in  the  city — 
and  without  delay  began  his  work  by  delivering  a  powerful 
address.  One  who  was  present  proposed  that  those  who  were 
willing  should  at  once  meet  in  the  session-room  for  practical 
purposes.  A  crowd  followed,  a  committee  w^as  named,  and 
about  £900  subscribed.  "  Next  evening  we  met,  and  resolved 
that  we  should  not  wait  for  an  iron  church,  but  so  soon  as  a 
site  could  be  obtained,  we  would  erect  a  wooden  church.  This 
was  commenced  on  the  1st  of  November,  and  to-morrow  the 
20th  it  is  to  be  opened — that's  Colonial — and  a  most  delightful 
comfortable  church  it  is,  the  pulpit  covered  with  blue,  and 
candles  all  ready  for  the  evening  service."  The  result  was  that 
one  of  the  most  important  congregations  in  the  colonies  was  at 
once  formed,  and  Dr.  Cairns  entered  on  a  ministry  the  influence 
of  which  was  destined  to  be  felt  as  a  power  for  good  in  Victoria, 
and  all  over  Australia.     To  this  we  shall  afterwards  refer. 

In  Tasmania  similar  steps  had  been  taken  at  an  earlier 
period.  Dr.  Nicolson  was  one  of  the  men  of  the  Disruption.  He 
resigned,  in  1848,  the  living  of  Ferry-Port-on-Craig  near  Dun- 
dee, was  subsequently  invited  to  form  a  congregation  at  Hobart 
Town ;  and,  on  landing,  he  received  a  warm  welcome  from  a 
numerous  company  of  friends.  The  large  hall  which  had  been 
engaged  for  public  worship,  soon  became  overcrowded.  Within 
sixteen  months  of  his  arrival,  a  handsome  church,  to  contain 
750  sitters,  was  erected.  The  opening  collection  amounted  to 
£170  ;  and  within  a  few  days  almost  every  sitting  was  let. 
"  I  suspect,"  Dr.  Nicolson  wrote  at  the  time,  "  few  of  our  friends 
at  home  can  imagine  anything  so  elegant  in  this  distant  land." 
Indeed,  down  to  the  present  day,  the  tower  of  his  church  is  one 
of  the  leading  architectural  features  of  that  now  flourishing 


THE  COLONIES.  569 

city.  Still  more  gratifying  is  it  to  find  him  in  a  recent  letter 
(1879)  speaking  of  his  long  ministry  in  Hobart  Town  as  "a, 
period  of  much  concord,  and,  I  hmiibly  think,  of  much  spiritual 
profit."  After  referring  to  the  uninterrupted  outward  success 
which  all  along  has  attended  the  congregation,  he  adds  :  "  I  am 
far  from  taking  it  for  granted  that  outward  prosperity  is 
evidence  of  spiritual  prosperity,  but  it  is  to  be  gratefully 
acknowledged  that  there  have  been  many  encouraging  evidences 
of  spiritual  good  as  the  result  of  our  labours.  On  a  calm  review 
of  all  the  circumstances  of  my  ministerial  life  since  the  exciting 
times  of  the  Disruption,  I  feel  warranted  to  say,  with  thankful 
and  adoring  praise  :  "  What  hath  the  Lord  wrought !  " 

In  New  Zealand  there  was  something  still  more  remarkable  in 
the  course  of  events.  The  civil  authorities  had  resolved  to  try 
a  system  of  "  Class  Colonies."  The  Episcopalians  were  to  have 
the  Province  of  Canterbury,  with  the  town  of  Christchurch,  all 
to  themselves,  while  the  Province  of  Otago  was  made  over  to 
the  Presbyterians,  and  put  into  the  hands  of  the  Free  Church. 
A  body  of  emigrants,  accordingly,  from  the  Presbyterian 
Churches  of  Scotland  sailed  from  the  Clyde,  having  at  their 
head  one  of  the  Disruption  ministers,  who  had  resigned  the 
parish  of  Monkton,  Mr.  Burns  already  referred  to,  the  nephew 
of  the  great  poet.  In  March,  1848,  they  reached  Otago,  on  a 
Saturday  afternoon,  landed  at  Dunedin,  and  next  day,  at 
twelve  o'clock,  began  those  religious  services  which  ever  since 
have  been  regularly  observed.  The  first  six  years  were  a  time 
of  severe  toil,  but  Mr.  Burns  was  the  right  man  in  the  right 
place,  caring  faithfully  for  the  settlers  in  their  religious  interests, 
and  ready  to  counsel  and  aid  them  in  all  the  affairs  of  colonial 
life.  Dunedin  was  his  headquarters;  but  as  the  population 
spread,  he  dispensed  religious  ordinances  among  the  outlying 
settlements.  Dr.  Nicolson,  on  his  way  to  Hobart  Town  in 
1851,  stayed  two  months  with  him,  and  has  described  the 
work:  "Dunedin,  now  (1879)  a  fine  city,  consisted  only  of  a 
few  wooden  cottages  erected  amongst  the  native  flax.  Among 
the  interesting  incidents  of  my  residence  there,  was  a  visit  to 
the  Taieri  Plain,  then  a  great  open  and  nearly  uninhabited 
expanse.    The  only  human  habitations  were  two  sheep  stations, 


670  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISKUPTION. 

about  five  miles  apart.  I  was  accompanied  by  three  guides,  all 
of  us  on  horseback,  and  reached  the  first  station  on  a  Saturday 
afternoon.  The  station  consisted  of  a  single  tent  of  one  apart- 
ment. There  we  remained  for  the  night,  and  next  mornino: 
proceeded  to  the  other  station,  to  which  notice  had  been  previously 
sent  to  have  all  their  people  collected  for  a  religious  service. 
We  made  up  a  congregation  of  thirteen  persons,  to  whom  I 
preached  the  Gospel.  This  may  reasonably  be  reckoned  the  first 
time  the  Gospel  had  been  preached  in  that  region.  That  place, 
then  a  wilderness,  has  now  a  thriving  population  and  two 
Presbyterian  churches." 

It  was  in  1854  that  Mr.  Burns  was  joined  by  two  fellow- 
labourers — Messrs.  Will  and  Bannerman — a  Presbytery  was 
constituted,  the  affairs  of  the  Church  took  shape,  and  its  sub- 
sequent history  has  been  one  of  steady  advancement.  At  last 
in  1866  a  Synod  was  formed,  and  Dr.  Burns — the  honorary 
degree  of  D.D.  having  been  conferred  on  him  by  the  University 
of  Edinburgh  —  in  delivering  the  opening  address,  briefly 
sketched  the  progress  which  had  been  made. 

That  day,  he  declared,  was  the  consummation  of  the  leading 
aim  of  the  last  twenty-two  years  of  his  life.  The  first  year  after 
their  arrival,  the  population  of  the  Province  of  Otago  had  been 
444.  In  1864  there  was  a  population  of  57,104.  Por  six  years 
he  had  stood  alone,  the  solitary  minister  of  religion  ;  now  he  saw 
around  him  a  whole  Synod  of  brethren,  consisting  of  three  Pres- 
byteries. They  had  been  conducting  an  experiment  full  of  interest 
— the  transplanting  of  an  entire  section  of  the  home  Presby- 
terianism  of  Scotland  into  a  new  country.  He  had  seen  it 
done — had  seen  the  settlers,  with  little  or  no  capital,  and  no 
resources  but  the  indomitable  perseverance  of  their  own  Scottish 
hearts,  and  the  sturdy  strokes  of  their  own  brawny  Scottish 
arms,  turn  the  wilderness  into  a  fruitful  field.  And  all  the 
time  they  had  never  relaxed  in  the  higher  task  of  making 
provision  for  the  ordinances  of  religion  and  the  education  of 
the  young.*  As  the  population  of  Dunedin  increased,  strangers 
bad  come  in,  yet  the  stillness  of  the  Sabbath,  and  their  churches 

*  During  the  first  six  years  they  had  only  one  minister,  but  they  set  up 
four  schools. 


THE  COLONIES.  571 

filled  with  earnest  hearers,  were  the  subject  of  remark  by  visitors 
from  neighbouring  colonies. 

"  Fathers  and  brethren,"  he  said  in  closing,  "  let  it  be  our 
part,  through  the  grace  of  God,  to  realise  to  our  own  hearts  the 
grandeur  of  that  work  to  which,  in  God's  providence,  we  have 
been  called  in  these  utmost  parts  of  the  earth,  to  bear  our 
testimony  in  behalf  of  the  whole  circle  of  Divine  truth  in  its 
integrity,  and  of  Christian  worship  in  its  purity,  for  the  glory  of 
God  and  the  advancement  of  undefiled  religion." 

The  rapid  view  which  we  have  thus  taken  of  the  colonial 
field  may  give  some  idea  of  what  the  Free  Church  had  to  do  in 
this  department  of  her  work.  The  story  of  the  Disruption  with 
its  details  of  trial  and  self-sacrifice,  seems  fairly  to  have  touched 
the  hearts  of  Scotchmen  all  over  the  world,  awakening  the 
memories  of  former  days,  and  calling  forth  their  desires  after  a 
higher  life.  From  all  lands  they  were  stretching  forth  their 
hands  to  the  Free  Church,  the  Church  of  their  fathers,  asking 
her  aid.  Never  since  the  days  of  the  Apostles  did  any  Church 
have  greater  opportunities.  The  colonies  of  Great  Britain 
encircle  the  earth — the  outlying  portions  of  that  empire  on 
which  the  sun  never  sets — and  all  over  these  regions  there  were 
doors  of  usefulness  set  open,  and  men  eagerly  pleading  for  help. 
No  one  could  look  at  such  a  spectacle  without  the  feeling  of 
solemn  responsibility.  These  colonies  were  infant  kingdoms, 
the  empires  of  the  future,  and  on  their  religious  condition  must 
depend  the  destinies,  for  time  and  eternity,  of  millions  yet 
unborn.  It  was  to  the  Free  Church  of  Scotland  many  of  their 
people  were  looking. 

Dr.  John  Bonar,  formerly  of  Larbert,  was  set  apart  to  take 
charge  of  the  colonial  work,  a  man  singularly  fitted  for  his  posi- 
tion, whose  name  is  destined  to  be  held  in  grateful  remembrance 
in  many  a  home  of  these  distant  lands.  As  years  went  on,  the 
demands  of  the  colonists  and  the  efforts  of  the  Church  increased, 
but  to  show  what  was  done  it  may  be  enough  to  take  the  state- 
ment of  1849  : — "  This  year,"  the  report  runs,  "  we  have  admin- 
istered funds  to  the  extent  of  £6000,  and  have  found  the  money 
little  enough  to  carry  forward  the  work  that  has  come  to  our 


672  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

hand.  In  the  course  of  these  few  years  we  have  been  able  to 
send  upwards  of  sixty  labourers  to  the  Colonial  field,  and  to  lend 
for  a  longer  or  shorter  time  nearly  fifty  more.  We  have  seen  the 
Church  of  Canada,  under  our  fostering  help,  double  its  numbers, 
and  again  -  hastening  to  do  the  same.  We  have  seen  different 
portions  of  the  field  blessed  with  times  of  special  refreshing.  .  .  . 
We  have  seen  one  college  rising  in  the  far  West,  and  promising 
soon  to  equal  those  from  which  it  sprang.  We  have  seen  a 
second  ready  to  follow  its  onward  path,  and  we  have  seen  pre- 
parations making  for  a  third,  in  a  yet  more  distant  country."* 

The  trials  and  toils,  however,  of  colonial  work  will  be  best 
understood  by  attending  to  the  actual  experience  of  those  who 
were  engaged  in  it.  To  show  how  laborious  the  struggle  often 
was,  it  may  be  enough  if  we  take  the  account  which  Dr.  Cairns 
of  Melbourne  gives  of  what  had  to  be  done  on  his  arrival. 

His  parting  from  Scotland  had  been  a  trial.  "  It  is  with 
peculiar  pain,"  he  had  said  in  the  General  Assembly,  "  that  I 
take  leave,  as  I  must  now  do,  of  the  Free  Church — the  Church 
of  my  heart,  my  afi'ections,  and  my  hopes — the  Church  of  my 
country  and  my  God."  It  was  a  sacrifice,  but  at  the  call  of 
duty  it  was  unreservedly  made. 

On  reaching  Melbourne  we  have  seen  how  he  threw  himself 
into  the  work  of  his  congregation.  The  Synod  to  which  he 
belonged  at  once  put  much  of  its  most  important  business  into 
his  hands.  "  I  was  immediately  appointed,"  he  says,  "  Convener 
of  the  Committees  on  Union ;  on  Education ;  on  the  Scotch 
College  ;  on  an  incipient  Divinity  Hall ;  and,  in  addition,  I  had 
to  join  in  promoting  the  Benevolent  Institutions  in  Melbourne, 
while  busy  with  my  work  as  minister  of  Chalmers'  Church. 
The  labour  was  heavy,  and  the  effect  after  a  time  disastrous. 
For  twelve  years  ray  '  rest '  was  about  four  hours  out  of  the 
twenty-four.  In  December,  1864,  my  old  complaint  returned, 
my  nervous  system  gave  way,  and  ever  aince  I  have  been  half 
an  invalid,  and  now  and  then,  a  whole  one,"i- 

But  all  this  was  not  in  vain.  "  By  his  marked  strength  and 
individuality  of  character,   he   succeeded  in   rapidly  bringing 

*  Blue  Book,  1849,  p.  142. 
+  Letter  to  his  friend,  Rev.  G.  Divorty.  11th  August,  1880. 


THE  COLONIES.  573 

about  a  great  change  in  the  prospects  of  his  Church  in  Victoria. 
His  eloquence  and  earnestness  soon  won  him  a  large  congrega- 
tion. Mainly  by  his  efforts  the  Union  of  the  Presbyterian  bodies 
was  effected — the  Scotch  College  was  built  and  carried  on — 
provision  for  education  made — young  men  trained  for  the 
ministry — and  much  other  important  work  done  for  the  social, 
religious,  and  intellectual  advancement  of  the  colony.* 

When  health  broke  down,  his  congregation  arranged  for  his 
returning  to  Scotland,  and  taking  rest  for  a  year,  his  brethren 
volunteering  with  one  consent  to  take  charge  of  his  pulpit. 

He  appeared  in  the  General  Assembly  where  his  speech  pro- 
duced a  deep  impression.  The  following  extracts  will  enable 
the  reader,  better  than  anything  else,  to  judge  of  his  work  and 
its  results. 

"  After  a  long  and  interesting  voyage,  which  has  refreshed 
me  not  a  little,  I  am  here  to  my  own  surprise.  Edinburgh 
seems  to  me  more  beautiful  than  ever.  I  have  seen  a  little 
of  her  surroundings,  and  her  manifold  improvements  have  filled 
me  with  admiration.  Edinburgh  is  a  delectable  city,  the  queen 
of  cities.  And  this  Assembly  Hall  is  a  new  thing  to  me.  I 
had  heard  of  it,  but  now  I  see  it.  It  is  elegant,  commodious, 
comfortable.  It  speaks  of  your  progress,  and  is,  I  hope,  the 
symbol  of  your  stability.  But  my  affections  go  back  to  good 
old  Canonraills,  and  that  famous  hall  Avhich  God  did  Himself 
provide  for  His  faithful  witnesses  in  the  memorable  day  of  the 
Disruption. 

"  TAvelve  years  have  rolled  away  since  I  bade  you  farewell. 
I  went  with  your  Commission,  in  the  very  height  of  the  pro- 
digious stream  of  emigration,  to  Victoria,  consequent  on  the 
discovery  of  the  gold-fields,  to  do  what  I  could  to  provide  for 
the  spiritual  wants  of  our  people,  and  to  co-operate  with  others 
in  building  up  our  Presbyterian  cause  in  that  far  distant  land. 
I  have  now  returned  as  it  were  to  report  progress — to  tell  how 
your  Commission  has  fared  in  the  hands  of  those  to  whom  it 
was  confided.  Well,  I  have  seen  many  strange  and  many 
wonderful   things,     I    have   seen   a   city,    little  better  than  a 

*  From  a  detailed  statement  in  The  Age  newspaper,  Melbourne,  31st 
January,  1881. 


574  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISKUPTION. 

collection  of  hovels  built  of  brick,  of  wood,  of  zinc,  of  corrugated 
iron,  of  canvas,  of  lath  and  plaster,  of  wattle  and  daub,  rise  and 
expand  into  the  form  and  dimensions,  with  something  of  the 
beauty  and  something  of  the  splendour,  of  a  magnificent 
metropolis.  I  have  seen  a  state  of  social  anarchy  and  utter 
confusion  give  place  to  one  of  order  and  comfort — the  certain 
proof  of  a  thriving  and,  I  hope,  upon  the  whole,  a  very  promising 
young  commonwealth.  I  have  seen  a  population  of  70,000  or 
80,000  multiplied  eight  times.  I  have  seen  a  country,  whose 
only  roads  were  bush-tracts,  intersected  with  railways  of 
admirable  construction.  I  have  witnessed  also  the  origin  and 
development  of  those  philanthropic  institutions  which  attend 
the  progress  of  Christian  civilisation  ;  hospitals  for  the  sick  and 
maimed ;  refuges  for  the  destitute  and  helpless ;  asylums  for  the 
orphan  and  stranger,  the  deaf  and  dumb,  »Sz;c.  I  have  assisted 
at  the  setting  up  and  establishing  of  a  system  of  common 
schools,  which  has  ripened  into  a  liberally  supported  educational 
system,  almost  commensurate  with  the  necessities  of  the  popula- 
tion. Alongside  of  this  national  scheme  for  the  education  of  all, 
there  are  well-appointed  and  ably  conducted  grammar  schools, 
of  which  the  most  popular  and  most  prosperous  is  our  own 
Scotch  College,  under  the  efficient  management  of  Mr. 
Morrison.  And  this  educational  edifice  is  crowned,  as  it  ought 
to  be,  with  a  university  built  at  great  cost,  with  a  competent 
staff  of  professors,  with  ample  means  and  very  considerable 
pretensions.  But  more  interesting  to  this  audience  will  be  an 
account  of  our  religious  operations.  Twelve  years  ago  there 
were  in  the  colony  just  fourteen  Presbyterian  members  of  all 
sections.  These  were  divided  amongst  themselves,  weakened 
each  other's  hands,  and  embarrassed  each  other's  movements. 
Now  the  Presbyterian  Church  of  Victoria,  the  United  Church, 
consists  of  ninety-four  ministers,  ordained  and  settled  in 
charges,  together  with  ten  at  the  disposal  of  our  Home  Mission 
and  eligible  for  calls,  and  two  missionaries — one  to  the  Chinese 
and  one  to  the  Aborigines.  The  word  'charge'  has  a  more 
extensive  meaning  with  us  than  with  you.  Here  it  signifies  a 
single  congregation,  the  cure  of  souls  of  one  minister.  We 
have  similar  charges  in  the  colony.     In  our  towns,  generally 


THE  COLONIES.  575 

speaking,  our  ministers  are  pastors  of  single  congregations. 
But  our  towns  are  few  in  number,  and  outside  of  them  in  the 
Bush,  as  we  call  the  country,  the  charge  assigned  to  one 
minister  includes  a  district  often  as  large  as  the  bounds  of  one 
of  your  Presbyteries.  Within  these  limits  he  is  not  simply  the 
pastor  of  a  flock,  but  a  planter  of  churches.  His  office  is  more 
that  of  an  apostolic  missionary  than  of  an  ordinary  minister. 
He  is  the  originator  and  fosterer  of  two,  or  three,  or  many 
congregations ;  and  when  fit  for  the  work,  and  earnestly 
devoted  to  it,  he  sees  the  promise  fulfilled  as  the  fruit  of  his 
own  labours,  *  the  wilderness  and  the  solitary  place  made  glad, 
and  the  desert  to  rejoice  and  blossom  as  the  rose.' " 

Such  was  the  work  to  which  Dr.  Cairns  invited  his  younger 
brethren.  But  not  for  a  moment  did  he  conceal  the  sacrifice  of 
natural  feeling  which  it  demanded.  The  tear  was  in  his  eye, 
and  in  the  eyes  of  many  around  him,  as  he  told  the  Assembly 
how  no  distance  of  time  or  place  could  weaken  the  love  he 
bore  to  his  native  land.  "  O  happy  Scotland,  highly  favoured 
of  God !  No  country  can  compare  with  thee,  either  as  to  the 
riches  of  Gospel  privileges,  or  of  names  that  are  so  many  towers 
of  strength.  Let  no  one  suppose  that  lapse  of  time  or  remote- 
ness of  position  has  cooled  or  tended  to  cool  the  ardour  of  my 
devotion  to  my  native  land.  No,  Scotland  is  dearer  to  me  than 
ever.  I  love  every  feature  of  her  countenance,  every  line  and 
nook  and  point  of  her  varied  and  beautiful  scenery.  Dear  to 
me  are  her  mountains  and  hills,  her  glens  and  straths,  her  lochs 
and  rivers,  her  mossy  waters  and  wimpling  burns,  her  bonny 
haughs  and  heathery  braes ;  dear  to  me  are  the  voices  of  her 
nature,  the  song  of  her  birds  and  the  murmur  of  her  streams. 
.  .  .  But  immeasurably  dearer  is  Scotland  to  me  for  her  noble 
army  of  martyrs  and  confessors — from  Hamilton,  from  Wishart, 
from  hira  of  the  lion  heart  and  the  eagle  eye,  the  fervent,  the 
sagacious,  the  prophetic,  the  indomitable  Knox,  down  through 
a  long  and  illustrious  succession  of  burning  and  shining  lights 
of  whom  the  world  was  not  worthy  ;  to  him,  in  many  respects, 
the  brightest  of  them  all,  the  champion  of  all  righteousness 
and  goodness  and  truth — that  tongue  of  fire,  that  old  man 


576  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

eloquent,  the  beneficent,  the  gracious,  the  incomparable  Chalmers. 
To  these  men  of  God  and  their  associates,  to  their  sanctified 
wisdom,  to  their  self-denying  lives,  to  their  wrestling  prayers, 
Scotland  is  indebted  for  her  marvellous  prosperity,  for  her  peer- 
less and  imperishable  renown.  In  that  far-off  region  of  the 
earth  from  which  I  have  come  to  visit  you,  I  have  often 
experienced  the  agony  of  home  sickness,  a  vehement  craving  for 
my  native  country.  At  times  nature  has  reasserted  her  former 
sway.  Feeling  has  broken  loose  in  a  tide  of  emotion  that  has 
quite  overwhelmed  me.  Busy  memory  has  recalled  some  fondly 
loved  face  or  form,  some  dear  friends  or  happy  scenes,  or 
perhaps  some  line  or  verse  of  a  ballad  has  haunted  me  like  a 
fairy. 

"  '  Oh  !  why  left  I  my  hame  1     Why  did  I  cross  the  deep  ? 
Why  left  I  the  land  where  my  forefathers  sleep  ] 
I  sigh  for  Scotia's  shore,  and  I  gaze  across  the  sea ; 
But  I  canna  get  a  blink  o'  my  ain  countrie.' 

"  But  truth  is  stronger  and  better  than  sentiment,  and  the  love 
of  Christ  is  at  once  sweeter  and  more  constraining  than  any  tie 
or  sympathy  of  nature.  My  choice  is  Australia ;  my  deliberate 
choice  is  Australia.  I  will  soon  go  back  never  to  return,  with 
no  wish  to  return,  because  I  believe  such  is  the  will  of  the  Lord. 
There  He  hath  appointed  me  to  labour  for  Him.  There  is  the 
sphere  of  my  ministry,  the  home  of  my  children,  and  by-and-by 
in  its  soil  this  anxious  body  will  find  a  quiet  tomb.  In  that 
sunny  land  I  expect  and  wish  to  spend  the  remainder  of  my 
days  in  serving  the  Lord  as  He  shall  enable  me,  and  as  a  fellow- 
worker  with  others  in  opening  up  and  preparing  the  way  for  the 
coming  of  the  great  King,  to  take  possession  of  His  own,  for 
the  ends  of  the  earth  are  His  by  the  promise  of  the  eternal 
covenant.  Bind  Thy  sword  upon  Thy  thigh  Thou  most  Mighty, 
with  Thy  Glory  and  Thy  Majesty ;  and  ride  on,  ride  on  pros- 
perously, because  of  truth,  and  meekness,  and  righteousness."* 

*  Blue  Book,  1865.  Address  by  Dr.  Cairns,  Appendix  to  Colonial 
Keport. 


EXTEKNAL  PKOGRESS,  577 


XLII.  External  Progress. 

While  the  Free  Church  was  thus  doing  her  work  at  the  ends 
of  the  earth,  she  was  receiving  accessions  to  her  strength  in 
Scotland,  and  it  may  be  interesting  to  compare  these  Colonial 
experiences  with  what  was  taking  place  about  the  same  time  in 
the  midst  of  our  home  population.  The  steady  increase  in  the 
number  of  adhering  congregations  and  ministers  is  one  of  the 
most  remarkable  facts  in  the  Church's  history. 

We  have  already  seen  how  from  the  first  the  number  of  the 
outgoing  ministers  was  far  greater  than  the  world  had  expected. 
Some  additional  indications  of  this  may  be  given ;  they  meet  us 
in  many  different  quarters. 

"  The  venerable  Principal  of  one  of  our  Universities,"  says 
Mr.  Cowan  (formerly  M.P.  for  Edinburgh),  "  whose  deep  sepul- 
chral voice  I  well  remember  in  the  Assembly,  thirty-five  years 
ago  sounded  like  that  of  an  oracle,  was  said  to  have  replied  to 
the  question  put  by  Government  as  to  the  extent  of  the  impend- 
ing exodus — '  Five  must,  ten  may,  but  twenty  never ! '  "  * 

The  biographer  of  Dr.  Cunningham  states :  "  One  gentle- 
manly Moderate  known  to  me,  and  still  alive  (1871),  declared 
from  the  pulpit  in  the  public  service  on  the  Sabbath  day,  in  a 
populous  burgh  town,  that  he  would  eat  all  the  ministers  who 
came  out."  + 

Another  of  the  brethren  in  a  rural  parish  expressed  a  similar 
resolution  :  "  I'll  eat  a'  that  come  oot."  "  Wlien  this  boast," 
Mr,  Cowan  states,  "  was  mentioned  to  Dr.  Chalmers  a  few  days 
before  the  Disruption,  he  laughed  most  heartily,  and  sent  a 
message  through  me  to  the  rev.  gentleman  to  congratulate  him 
on  the  prospect  of  a  plentiful  meal.     On  the  day  of  the  Dis- 

*  Eeminisceuces  by  Charles  Cowan,  Esq.  (private  cii-culation),  p.  309. 
+  Life  of  Dr.  Cuuuiugliam,  p.  191. 

2P 


578  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

ruptiou  I  walked  down  to  Holyrood,  having  frequently  in  former 
years  attended  the  levees  of  Her  Majesty's  Commissioners  as  I 
have  done  since ;  but  on  this  occasion,  in  view  of  the  cruel 
robbery  about  to  be  inflicted  by  the  Government  upon  the 
Church  and  the  people  of  Scotland,  I  had  not  the  heart  to  enter 
tlie  ancient  palace,  but  turned  my  back  upon  it  and  walked 
slowly  and  sadly  up  the  Canongate.  When  at  the  Tron  Church, 
which  was  open,  I  met  the  rev,  gentleman,  above  referred  to, 
and  in  the  porch  delivered  to  him  Dr.  Chalmers'  congratulatory 
message,  his  reply  was :  '  Did  I  really  say  that  ?  I  dinna 
mind,  but  it's  very  like  me.  But  I  hope  I'm  no  bund  to  eat 
them  a'  at  aince.'"* 

When  ministers  spoke  thus  of  their  brother  ministers,  it  is  no 
wonder  if  the  laity  were  equally  incredulous. 

Dr.  Burns  of  Kilsyth  refers  to  the  factor  who  acted  for  a  lead- 
ing proprietor  in  the  parish.  He  "  had  often  said  that  when  it 
came  to  the  point,  few,  excepting  the  noted  men  in  Edinburgh, 
would  give  up  their  situations,  to  whom  from  their  popularity  it 
would  be  a  small  sacrifice,  although  he  did  the  writer  the  justice 
or  the  honour  of  allowing  that  he  would  very  likely  go  out  after 
what  he  had  heard  him  say.  The  teacher  of  the  school  adjacent 
to  the  factor's  dwelling  had  conversed  with  him  frequently  on 
the  subject,  and  on  the  evening  of  the  Disruption  was  invited  to 
come  over  next  morning  when  the  letters  and  newspapers  should 

arrive  so  as  to  get  the  earliest  news.      While  Mr.  was 

opening  his  letters  he  threw  the  Herald  to  Mr.  Towers,  and  in  a 
few  moments  after  asked,  'Well,  what  about  the  ministers'? 
When  Mr.  T.  gave  him  the  intelligence  he  said  not  a  word,  but 
his  visage  told  how  strange  and  how  strong  were  the  emotions 
produced." -f- 

In  Sutherland,  Mr.  Mackenzie  of  Farr  describes  a  similar  scene 
between  two  neighbouring  country  gentlemen,  one  favourable, 
and  the  other  opposed  to  the  Free  Church.  The  latter  had  been 
accustomed  to  say:  "Wait  till  it  comes  to  the  test,  and  these 
Oonvocation  ministers  will  find  a  loophole  to  get  through,  so  as 
to  hold  their  livings."    On  the  day  when  the  news  was  expected 

*  Reminiscences,  pp.  309,  310. 
t  Disr.  Mss.  xxix.  p.  29. 


EXTERNAL  PKOGEESS.  579 

to  arrive,  this  gentleman  was  entertaining  his  friend  at  dinner ; 
and  when  the  papers  came  in  conveying  the  intelligence,  he 
"  was  quite  astounded  "  on  looking  over  the  list,  and  asked  the 
other,  "  You  always  said  this  would  be  the  case — what  was  your 
ground  for  believing  it?"  "I  believed  it,"  was  the  reply, 
"  because  I  believed  the  Convocation  ministers  to  be  honest 
men." 

But  while  the  first  aspect  which  the  Free  Church  presented 
was  thus  far  beyond  what  men  had  looked  for,  yet  many  of  the 
opponents  clung  to  the  idea  that  it  was  only  a  temporary  outburst 
of  hot  zeal,  and  would  soon  cool  down  ;  and  that  as  the  men  of 
the  Disruption  died  out,  the  Church  would  soon  dwindle  into 
feebleness,  and  lose  her  hold  of  the  people.  Not  such  were  the 
anticipations  of  her  leading  men.  Dr.  Candlish,  at  Glasgow, 
five  months  after  the  Disruption,  was  forecasting  what  the 
position  of  the  Free  Church  should  be  at  the  end  of  the  first 
year's  experience  of  her  disestablished  position.  "  I  trust  that 
by  next  May  the  Church  will  exhibit  to  the  country  and  the 
world  the  aspect  of  a  settled  and  confirmed  institute,  and  that 
we  shall  proceed  to  the  discharge  of  our  business  as  if  we  had 
met  with  no  interruption.  The  connexion  of  the  Church  with 
the  State  is  to  be  viewed  as  a  comparatively  accidental  circum- 
stance. The  essence  of  a  Church  consists  in  her  relation  to  her 
Great  Head  ;  .  .  .  and  it  will  be  a  noble  spectacle  which,  under 
God,  the  Free  Church  may  exhibit  to  all  Christendom,  when  it 
is  seen  that  she  has  sustained  the  shock  of  separation  from  the 
State  without  staggering  under  the  blow — that  she  has  gone  on, 
majestically  I  would  almost  say,  under  the  guidance  of  her 
Great  Head,  on  her  own  straightforward  course,  and  after  the 
lapse  of  a  brief  year  she  is  found  in  all  her  order  and  regularity, 
without  State  support,  as  regularly  and  effectually  working  as 
when  she  enjoyed  the  smiles  of  the  great."  * 

To  a  large  extent  these  anticipations  were  realised.  But 
there  remained  the  question  of  Church  extension  on  the  part 
of  the  Free  Church.  She  would  never  rest  satisfied,  it  was 
declared,  until  she  had  planted  a  church  in  every  district  of 
Scotland,  "and  completely  re-established  by  the  voluntary 
*  Dr.  Candhsh,  Assembly  Proceedings,  Glasgow,  p.  166. 


580  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

contributions  of  the  people  wliat  was  recently  the  Established 
Church  of  Scotland."  * 

In  1867  Dr.  R.Buchanan  looks  back  to  1843,  and  marks  the 
position  of  the  Church  "after  nearly  a  quarter  of  a  century 
has  passed  away."  It  would  "tax  the  powers  of  some 
future  Church  historian  to  sum  up  and  describe  the  results " 
which  had  been  attained  — "  nearly  a  thousand  churches 
built,  and  almost  as  many  manses  and  schools;  nearly  a 
thousand  congregations  formed,  and  as  many  ministers  and 
missionaries  sustained  all  over  the  length  and  breadth  of  the 
land ;  in  a  word,  the  whole  equipment  of  a  Christian  Church 
set  up  and  provided  for,  with  its  theological  halls  for  the 
training  of  candidates  for  the  ministry,  its  missions  to  the 
heathen  and  to  the  Jew,  and  to  our  own  expatriated  countrymen 
in  every  quarter  of  the  world.  In  view  of  all  this,  not  we  our- 
selves only,  but  onlookers  outside  of  us,  have  been  constrained 
to  say — What  hath  God  wrought ! "  -f- 

Thus  it  was  in  1867.  In  the  following  table,  however,  the 
reader  will  see  at  a  glance  how  the  Church  has  been  strengthen- 
ing her  position — how  the  number  of  her  congregations  and  of 
her  ordained  ministers  has  gone  on  progressively  advancing  at 
every  stage  of  her  history  since  1843. 

•^  Missionary  Record,  1848,  p.  462. 
t  Blue  Book,  1867,  p.  180. 


[Tablb. 


EXTERNAL  PKOGRESS.  581 


TABLE  SHOWING  THE  Progressive  Increase  of  Ordained 
Ministers  in  the  Free  Church. 

5fEAR,  No.  of  Ministers. 

ISlt  583 

1845  627 

1846  672    \    Average  during  the  first  five  years,         ,         .         647 

1847  673 

1848  684 

1849  705 

1850  720 

1851  736    >    Average  during  the  second  five  years,    .         .         733 

1852  745 

1853  759 

1854  765 

1855  786 

1856  790    y    Average  during  the  third  five  years,       .         .         795 

1857  811 

1858  825 

1859  827 
1800  846 

1861  859    >    Average  during  the  fourth  five  years,     .         .         857 

1862  872 

1863  885 


1864  894 

1865  903 

1866  902    ).    ..Average  during  the  fifth  five  years,         .         .         907 

1867  917 

1868  923 

1869  942 

1870  947 

1871  948    >    Average  during  the  sixth  five  years,       .         .         952 

1872  957 

1873  969 

1874  975 

1875  997 

1876  1014    y    Average  during  the  seventh  five  years,  .         .       1024 

1877  1059 

1878  1075 

It  should  be  explained  that  a  few  invalided  ministers,  who  have  retired  from 
active  duty,  are  included  in  these  lists,  but  they  do  not  materially  affect  the 
results.  Thus  in  1879  there  were  1094  ministers  on  the  list,  of  whom  54 
were  invalided,  leaving  1040  in  active  service.  A  similar  proportion  will 
be  found  ill  the  previous  years. 


582  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISEUPTION. 


XLIII.  The  Diseuption  in  Glenisla. 

Thus  steadily  was  the  Church  going  forward  to  occupy  the 
field  which  had  been  marked  out  for  her  in  Scotland.  As  one 
example  of  how  this  was  done,  we  may  refer  to  what  took 
place  at  Glenisla,  a  retired  country  district  among  the  mountains 
of  Forfarshire. 

At  one  time  the  parish  had  enjoyed  the  services  of  Mr. 
Martin,  one  of  the  most  gifted  and  devoted  ministers  in  the 
Church.  He  was  afterwards  translated  to  Edinburgh,  and  died 
minister  of  St.  George's,  where  he  succeeded  Dr.  Andrew  Thom- 
son, and  preceded  Dr.  Candlish.  "  The  fruits  of  his  ministry," 
it  is  said,  "remain  unto  this  day  (1881)  in  Glenisla."* 

In  the  Glen  there  were  several  estates,  the  proprietors  of 
which  resided  on  their  own  lands,  and  had  great  influence  among 
the  people.  One  of  those  gentlemen,  Mr.  M'Kenzie  of  Alrick, 
an  elder  of  the  Church,  has  given  a  narrative  which  enables  us 
clearly  to  follow  the  course  of  events,  and  of  this  we  shall  freely 
avail  ourselves  in  a  form  somewhat  condensed. 

The  conflict  which  ended  in  1843,  Mr.  M'Kenzie  states,  was 
unknown  and  uncared  for  in  their  quiet  glen.  They  were  like 
the  men  of  Laish,  living  quiet  and  secure,  among  the  fastnesses 
of  their  Grampian  mountains,  and  not  wishing  that  the  troublers 
of  Israel  should  come  among  them. 

There  was  a  man  among  us,  he  goes  on  to  tell,  who  "  was  like 
to  lose  the  sight  of  one  of  his  eyes.  He  had  heard  of  a  Dr. 
Irving,  somewhere  near  Moulin,  and  asked  a  friend  to  accom- 
pany him  to  this  eye  doctor,  for  it  was  reported  that  he  had 
cured  many,  and  could  restore  sight  to  those  who  were  nearly 
blind.  Well,  on  the  10th  of  May,  184-0,  these  two  friends  set 
out,  over  hill  and  dale,  on  their  way  to  the  famous  oculist — one 

*  Disr.  Mss.  Ixxxvi. 


THE  DISRUPTION  IN  GLENISLA.  583 

of  them  nearly  blind  of  an  eye,  and  both  of  them  mentally 
blind  as  to  Church  matters ;  but  they  got  a  little  light  before 
tliey  came  home.  They  found  the  doctor,  got  the  prescription, 
stayed  all  night  as  it  was  late  ;  and  on  their  way  home  next  day, 
as  they  came  through  Kirkmichael,  who  should  be  standing  on 
the  street  but  Mr.  Drummond,  the  minister.  They  both  knew 
him,  and  often  heard  him  preach  in  his  own  church  on  sacra- 
mental occasions,  and  they  both  liked  him  well,  as  a  good 
preacher.  He  frankly  spoke  to  them,  and  among  other  things 
asked  about  Church  matters  in  their  parish.  They  told  him 
they  took  no  interest  in  these  things,  that  they  thought  these 
contendings  did  much  hurt  to  religion,  and  let  him  know  that 
ill  their  glen  they  stood  neutral.  He  rather  sharply  said,  '  What 
sort  of  men  are  you,  to  take  no  interest  in  matters  like  these  ? ' 
for  he  was  a  man  of  hasty  temper.  He  told  us  there  could  be  no 
neutrality,  and  '  what  are  you,  but  Judases  and  traitors  to  act  in 
this  manner?'  He  asked  if  there  had  been  no  public  meetings  in 
their  parish,  and  they  told  him  there  had  been  none.  They  both 
made  for  going  on  their  way,  for  they  did  not  wish  to  anger  the 
minister,  nor  yet  to  dispute  with  him.  However,  he  said,  '  Come 
into  the  manse  with  me,  and  I  will  tell  you  something  about  these 
things,  and  if  you  will  be  ruled  by  me,  I  will  give  you  some  direc- 
tions how  to  do  when  you  go  home.'  They  followed  him  into  the 
manse,  and  he  took  them  into  a  large  room  and  shut  the  door, 
and  then  he  gave  them  a  long  lecture  on  the  evils  of  patronage, 
the  harm  it  had  done,  and  how  many  gross  intrusions  had  taken 
place  under  it.  He  also  told  them  that  matters  had  come  to  a 
crisis,  and  that  now  either  the  Church  must  submit  to  have  the 
Government  and  Court  of  Session  for  its  head,  or  renounce  its 
connection  with  the  State.  For  himself,  his  mind  was  made  up, 
and  that  he  would  rather  leave  manse,  stipend,  and  glebe,  and 
preach  on  the  hill  sides,  as  our  forefathers  had  done,  than  betray 
the  Church.  He  walked  from  side  to  side  of  his  room  in  great 
agitation,  till  his  cloak  had  nearly  fallen  from  his  shoulders,  while 
they  sat  silently  listening,  never  venturing  to  speak  or  contra- 
dict. Indeed,  they  saw  so  much  good  reason  in  what  he  said, 
that  they  both  felt  inclined  to  cast  in  their  lot  with  the  good 
man.     He,  seeing  he  had  so  far  gained  his  point  with  them, 


584  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

said,  '  I  will  tell  you  what  you  must  do.  I  will  get  you  two 
petitions,  and  you  will  first  go  to  your  minister  and  get  him,  if 
possible,  to  sign  them  first.  But,  as  you  have  never  heard  from 
him  about  these  matters,  it  is  likely  he  will  be  of  the  opposite 
side.  Howjever,  do  not  lose  your  temper  with  your  minister, 
but  tell  him  plainly  that  you  see  matters  in  a  different  light 
than  he  does,  and  go  through  the  whole  parish,  and  get  the 
petitions  as  numerously  signed  as  possible,  and  sent  up  to 
Parliament.'  They  told  him  they  had  no  objections  to  do  what 
he  said,  provided  their  own  minister  was  agreeable,  but  they  did 
not  like  to  do  anything  in  opposition  to  him,  for  they  were  sure 
it  would  breed  much  sore  feeling  and  division." 

How  the  minister  opposed  and  resisted  this  movement  is 
fully  told,  and  how  they,  on  the  other  hand,  with  Scottish  per- 
tinacity, carried  out  what  they  had  once  begun. 

Fuller  information  soon  began  to  reach  the  glen,  and  among 
other  things,  they  had  a  visit  from  Mr.  M'Cheyne.  Several 
years  before,  some  of  the  people  had  gone  to  Dundee  and  urged 
him'  to  come  to  preach  in  Glenisla — a  request  which  he  was 
obliged  to  decline,  knowing  that  the  parish  minister  would  be 
hostile.  In  the  beginning  of  1843,  however,  he  unexpectedly 
made  his  appearance ;  and  when  he  came  into  the  parish,  he 
said  that  he  felt  as  if  he  stood  on  consecrated  ground — it  was  the 
place  where  Mr.  Martin  had  laboured.  Application  was  made  to 
the  parish  minister  for  the  use  of  the  church  on  a  week-day, 
that  Mr.  M'Cheyne  might  preach  to  the  people.  As  Mr.  Watt 
stood  at  the  manse  door,  however,  he  said,  "  Well,  I'll  be  very 
candid  with  you  ;  he  shall  never  preach  in  my  pulpit."  Again 
the  church  was  asked  for,  as  a  great  favour,  with  the  assurance 
that  no  discussion  would  take  place,  and  that  only  a  sermon 
would  be  preached.  He  replied,  "  Mr.  M'Cheyne  had  plenty  of 
work  to  do  in  Dundee,  without  raising  divisions  in  quiet 
parishes."  This  refusal  was  felt  to  be  a  great  disappointment, 
after  Mr.  M'Cheyne  had  come  so  far,  in  such  cold  and  stormy 
weather,  on  the  10th  of  January,  1843.  He  had,  however,  to  be 
told,  that  "  we  could  not  get  the  church  for  him,  and,  at  the  same 
time,  we  stated  that  we  were  exceedingly  sorry  at  these  divisions, 
as  we  feared  they  might  do  much  hurt.     He  said  in  reply, 


THE  DISRUPTION  IN  GLENISLA.  585 

'These  are  the  best  things  that  have  happened  in  our  day,'  and 
that  he  believed  they  would  do  much  good.  He  let  us  know- 
that  there  was  nothing  to  be  looked  for  but  a  breaking  up  of 
Church  and  State  ;  and,  he  added,  *  the  next  time  I  come  to  Glen- 
isla,  I  will  preach  in  the  open  air,  and  we  will  see  who  will 
join  our  new  church.'  While  we  were  thus  talking  a  man 
came  into  the  room,  and  he  said  to  him  in  a  very  solemn 
manner :  '  Well,  what  do  you  think  of  yourself  ? '  The  man 
said :  '  I  think  I  am  a  stony-ground  hearer ; '  and  oh  !  can 
we  ever  forget  with  what  a  solemn  look  and  manner  he  addressed 
him,  and  warned  him  of  his  danger  ?  The  neighbouring  church 
at  Lintrathen  was  then  got,  where  Mr.  M'Cheyne  preached  to  a 
crowded  congregation  from  the  words  :  *  Except  a  man  be  born 
again,  he  cannot  see  the  kingdom  of  God.'  This  was  among  the 
last  journeys  of  Mr.  M'Cheyne.  He  died  soon  after,  and  we 
never  saw  him  more.  Some  among  us  had  got  their  eyes 
opened  to  see  what  was  impending  over  the  Church,  and  were 
alarmed  at  what  might  be  the  result ;  but  felt  inclined  to  cast 
in  our  lot  with  those  whom  we  believed  to  be  faithful  ministers, 
whatever  the  consequences  might  be." 

In  the  month  of  May  following,  Mr.  G-.  Brown,  afterwards  of 
Castle-Douglas,  a  deputy  from  the  Committee  of  Convocation, 
appeared,  and  held  a  public  meeting  in  the  glen,  but  his  state- 
ments seem  to  have  been  stronger  than  the  people  were  prepared 
for.  It  was  putting  new  wine,  Mr.  M'Kenzie  says,  into  old 
bottles.  At  an  adjourned  meeting,  only  six  gave  in  their  names 
as  adherents  —  Messrs.  John  M'Kenzie,  John  Donald,  James 
Cargill,  John  Grant,  William  Gellatly,  and  John  Stewart, — a 
very  small  beginning  for  a  church  and  congregation. 

While  these  things  were  going  on,  "  we  heard  that  the  Disrup- 
tion had  taken  place  ;  and  now  we  were  at  a  dead  stand.  To  go 
back  to  the  Established  Church  we  would  not,  and  we  had 
nowhere  else  to  go.  John  Grant  had  a  child  to  baptise,  and  a 
note  was  written  to  the  Kev.  Mr.  Macdonald  of  Blairgowrie, 
informing  him  of  the  state  of  matters,  and  asking  him  if  he 
would  come  to  our  glen  to  advise  with  us  and  preach,  and  to 
baptise  the  child.  Some  of  us  had  hearJ  him,  and  most  of  us 
bad  heard  of  him,  as  his  fame  was  spread  far  and  wide.     He  let 


586  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

US  know  that  he  would  come,  and  desired  intimation  to  be 
made.  We  were  all  lifted  up  with  the  thought  that  he  was  to 
come,  and  there  was  a  great  out-turn  of  the  people  to  hear  him. 
After  singing  and  prayer,  he  read  out  the  text  (Acts  viii.  1-4) : 
*  At  that  time  there  was  a  great  persecution,  .  .  .  therefore  they 
that  were  scattered  abroad  went  everywhere  preaching  the 
Word.'  Those  of  us  who  had  given  our  names  were  thrilled 
with  joy  when  we  heard  the  text  read  out.  Long  as  we  had 
wished  the  people  of  Glenisla  to  hear  that  man  of  God,  Mr. 
M'Cheyne,  and  much  as  we  were  disappointed,  now  beyond  our 
expectations  Mr.  Macdonald  had  come  to  meet  them  face  to  face, 
and  was  to  preach  to  them.  It  was  a  calm  summer  evening, 
about  the  4th  of  June,  we  were  full  of  the  highest  hopes  that 
it  would  be  a  night  to  be  remembered,  and  we  were  not  dis- 
appointed. He  told  us,  among  other  things,  that  had  it  not  been 
for  the  persecution  of  Jerusalem,  the  apostles  and  believers  did 
not  seem  to  have  had  any  desire  to  separate,  but  that  the  persecu- 
tion spread  them  all  abroad.  God  overruled  the  wrath  of  man 
for  good.  He  had  no  doubt  that  the  Disruption  of  the  Church 
of  Scotland  would  be  overruled  for  good  to  many  a  dark  place  in 
the  land.  He  encouraged  those  who  had  given  in  their  names, 
and  exhorted  all  to  acknowledge  Christ  as  Head  of  the  Churcli, 
both  by  word  and  deed.  We  asked  where  we  should  go  to 
church  now,  and  what  we  had  to  do.  We  offered  a  site  for  a 
church  and  manse,  and  three  or  four  acres  of  ground  for  a  glebe, 
if  only  we  could  get  a  minister.  Mr.  Macdonald  said,  '  We  will 
go  over  to  Mr.  Ferguson  at  Drumfork,  and  see  what  number  of 
adherents  are  there.'  After  consultation,  it  was  arranged  that  a 
station  should  be  opened  at  Cray,  to  suit  Glenisla,  Blackwater, 
and  Glenshee.  Mr.  Macdonald  did  us  much  good  by  this  visit. 
He  was  dearly  loved  by  all  the  peojale,  and  he  promised  to 
befriend  us  every  way  in  his  power,  advising  us  to  get  as  many 
adherents  as  possible.  The  more  adherents  we  had,  there  was 
the  better  chance  of  our  speedily  getting  a  minister. 

"  While  these  things  were  going  on  amongst  us,  we  heard  that 
Mr,  Brown,  who  came  to  us  at  the  first,  had  gone  to  visit 
Kirkmichael,  and  asked  Mr.  Drummond's  permission  to  hold  a 
meeting  in  his  church.     This  was  granted  on  condition  that 


THE  DISRUPTION  IN  GLENISLA.  587 

Mr.  Drummond  should  have  a  right  to  reply.  Accordingly, 
after  Mr.  Biown's  address,  Mr.  Drummond  arose,  and  forbade  the 
hearers  giving  their  adherence  to  the  Free  Church.  There  was 
an  angry  discussion,  which  had,  no  doubt,  a  bad  effect  upon 
many.  However,  a  good  number  gave  in  their  names,  and  left 
their  minister,  who  had  been  their  leader  in  the  Non-Intrusion 
question,  but  now,  in  the  time  of  need,  had  deserted , them.  We, 
in  our  glen,  when  we  heard  of  these  things,  wished  very  much 
to  see  him  again,  to  hear  what  he  would  say  for  himself  He 
had  called  us  Judases  and  traitors  for  not  taking  any  active 
hand  in  the  beginning  of  the  struggle  ;  but  now  in  the  day  of 
battle  he  himself  had  faintly  turned  back.  '  Let  him  who 
thinketh  he  standeth,  take  heed  lest  he  fall.'  Mr.  Brown  called 
upon  us  again,  and  told  us  what  a  strange  man  Mr.  Drummond 
was ;  that  after  all  their  disputings  in  the  church,  he  took  him 
into  the  manse  and  lodged  him  all  night,  and  was  kind  and 
courteous.  Our  own  minister  did  not  fail  to  tell  us  of  Mr. 
Drummond,  in  whom  we  had  so  much  confidence,  and  so  rashly 
followed  his  advice,  how  he  had  given  us  the  slip  himself  in  the 
time  of  need.  Notwithstanding  all  this,  we  were  convinced  from 
the  Word  that  the  people  had  the  right  to  choose  their  own 
minister.  The  only  thing  we  regretted  was,  we  had  so  few 
adherents,  and  that  Cray  was  too  far  from  us,  and  that  the 
distance  would  be  a  great  barrier  to  many  joining  us. 

"  Soon  after  this,  there  were  some  devoted,  faithful  ministers 
who  made  their  appearance  in  the  glen — viz.,  Messrs.  Bain, 
Edgar,  Brown,  and  others.  They  preached  for  the  most  part  in 
the  open  air,  when  the  weather  permitted,  for  the  people  flocked 
to  hear  them,  and  we  could  get  no  house  that  would  hold  the 
congregation.  Mr.  Bain  was  dearly  loved  by  all  who  heard 
him,  but  he  had  got  a  call  to  Coupar- Angus  before  we  were  in 
circumstances  to  have  a  mi-nister.  Mr.  W.  Brown  was  appointed 
for  a  number  of  weeks  to  labour  amongst  us.  He  was  not  so 
popular  as  a  preacher,  but  a  most  devoted,  prayerful  man,  best 
loved  by  those  who  were  most  intimately  acquainted  with  him." 

The  sacrament  was  dispensed  at  the  barn  in  Cray,  when  Mr. 
!Macdonald,  Mr.  Gillies,  and  Mr.  Bonar  from  Collace  assisted, 
much  to  the  delight  and  edification  of  the  people  who  flocked 


588  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

together,  and  those  that  the  barn  could  not  contain  stood  in  the 
open  air,  James  Cargill,  one  of  the  six  who  first  gave  in  their 
names  in  Glenisla,  called  upon  Mr.  Watt,  the  parish  minister, 
for  a  certificate  in  order  to  communicate  at  Cray,  and  was  duly 
furnished-  with  it.  In  the  evening,  however,  the  minister 
thought  better  of  it,  and  sent  David  Clark,  the  minister's-man,  to 
demand  it  back,  with  a  letter  to  Mr.  Cargill's  father,  stating 
that  upon  further  reflection  he  was  convinced  he  did  wrong  in 
giving  his  countenance  to  any  one  to  join  with  those  who 
have  separated  from  the  Church  of  their  forefathers  "  without 
any  sufiicient  reason  that  I  can  see,  and  I  think  I  am  conscien- 
tious. I  hope,  therefore,  you  will  give  back  the  certificate  to 
the  bearer."  A  few  sentences  from  Mr.  Cargill's  reply  may  be 
quoted  as  showing  the  intelligence  of  these  humble  parishioners. 
"We  have  returned  the  certificate,  according  to  your  request, 
but  we  wonder  much  to  hear  you  say,  that  you  see  no  reason  for 
leaving  what  you  term  the  Church  of  our  forefathers.  We 
think  we  are  only  clinging  to  the  Church  of  our  forefathers,  the 
Church  of  the  Reformation,  the  Church  which  the  Covenanters, 
Richard  Cameron,  Donald  Cargill,  Renwick,  and  others  sufiered 
and  shed  their  blood  for.  Was  it  not  for  this  one  point  they 
suffered,  that  Christ  is  the  Head  of  the  Church,  and  not  the  King 
nor  Court  of  Session  ?  and  we  hope  you  wiU  give  us  credit  when 
we  say,  that  we  also  think  ourselves  conscientious  in  leaving  the 
Established  Church  now,  and  joining  ourselves  with  those  who 
are  at  liberty  to  legislate  for  themselves,  without  any  interference 
from  the  civil  rulers,  rather  than  submit  to  Lord  Aberdeen's  Act, 
as  the  Established  Church  has  now  done." 

While  matters  were  thus  going  on  at  Cray,  "  we  were  not  idle 
at  Glenisla.  We  fitted  up,  as  a  place  of  worship,  a  large  empty 
house,  and  we  got  forms  made,  and  a  pulpit  placed,  and  stipulated 
to  have  a  sermon  once  in  three  weeks,  if  nut,  once  a  fort- 
night. Mr.  Brown  often  came  over  in  the  afternoon,  after 
preaching  in  Glenshee,  but  few  adherents  came  to  him,  so 
we  felt  very  discouraged  and  disheartened.  We  were  few  in 
number — about  a  score — we  were  laughed  at  by  the  opposite 
party,  called  '  Nons '  and  rebels,  rebelling  against  the  law  of  the 
land.     Nevertheless,  we  heeded  not,  but  went  to  Cray  regularly, 


THE  DISRUPTION  IN  GLENISLA.  589 

and  had  sermon  in  our  own  glen  occasionally.  Matters  went  on 
in  this  way  for  four  or  five  years,  and  both  parties  had  settled 
down." 

About  that  time,  however,  a  circumstance  occurred  which 
changed  the  whole  aspect  of  affairs.  A  vacancy  took  place  in 
the  parish  church,  and  various  movements  were  made  by  the 
parishioners  to  get  the  man  of  their  choice.  At  first  there  were 
some  hopes  of  success,  but  ultimately  they  were  disappointed. 

So  long  as  the  vacancy  lasted,  there  was  preaching  in  the 
parish  church  only  on  alternate  Sabbaths.  The  Free  Church 
adherents  applied  to  their  presbytery  for  a  supply  on  the  inter- 
vening Sabbaths,  which  was  accordingly  granted.  The  first  who 
was  appointed  to  come  was  Mr.  Bain  from  Coupar- Angus.  "  There 
was  a  great  out-turn,  so  that  our  large  house  was  for  the  first  time 
filled  to  overflow.  Mr.  Bain  did  not  come,  something  having 
occurred  to  prevent  him,  but  he  sent  Mr.  Ross  of  Rattray :  the 
people  were  highly  delighted,  and  intimation  was  given  at  the 
close  of  the  sermon,  as  usual,  that  there  would  be  a  similar 
service  that  day  fortnight.  Mr,  White  of  Airlie  came,  and 
although  we  did  not  know  who  would  come  next,  we  yet — as 
the  people  had  turned  out  so  well  both  days — took  it  upon  our- 
selves to  intimate  that  a  similar  service  would  be  held  that  day 
fortnight.  This  continued  all  the  time  that  the  church  was 
vacant.  Messrs.  Stewart  of  Kirkmichael,  Bain,  Macdonald,  and 
Ferguson  from  Alyth,  all  came  in  regular  succession,  and  our 
place  of  worship  could  not  nearly  contain  the  numbers  that 
attended." 

On  one  occasion  it  had  been  announced  that  Mr.  Macdonald 
of  Blairgowrie  was  coming  to  preach.  It  happened  to  be  an 
ujicommonly  stormy  north  wind,  but  the  news  of  Mr. 
Macdonald's  coming,  had  brouglit  together  a  very  great  multi- 
tude. "  \Ye  were  at  a  loss  to  know  what  to  do.  At  last,  we 
thought  of  going  to  the  best  sheltered  part  of  the  wood.  We 
erected  a  tent  and  tied  it  to  trees,  so  that  it  might  not  be  over- 
turned. For  a  time  there  was  no  appearance  of  the  minister.  He 
had  gone  round  by  Cray,  and  had  been  detained.  We  were 
glad  when  we  saw  him  coming,  and  we  saw  also  Mr.  Rattray  of 
Brewlands,  one  of  the  leading  heritors,  and  Mrs.  Rattray  coming 


590  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

across  the  fields.  Mr.  Macdonald  was  a  little  beyond  the  time, 
and  there  was  a  very  large  congregation  waiting  him.  It  was 
very  solemn  to  hear  the  voice  of  psalms  rising  from  so  many 
voices,  mingling  with  the  sound  of  the  wind,  among  the  tops  of 
the  trees,  which  brought  forcibly  to  mind  the  words  of  the 
Lord :  "  When  thou  hearest  the  sound  of  a  going  on  the 
tops  of  the  mulberry  trees,  then  thou  shalt  bestir  thyself,  for 
then  shall  the  Lord  go  out  before  thee,  to  smite  the  host  of  the 
Philistines."  When  he  rose  to  prayer,  he  prayed  that  the  wind 
might  be  stayed,  and  it  was  observed  in  a  little  it  had  greatly 
subsided,  and  before  he  had  finished  the  sermon  it  was  almost  a 
calm.  He  gave  out  for  text  Luke  vii.,  and  read  from  the  86th 
verse.  This  was  a  great  day  amongst  us — one  of  the  days  of 
the  Son  of  Man — a  day  which  some  among  us  will  never  forget. 
The  people  had  come  with  great  expectations,  and  they  were  not 
disappointed." 

Another  circumstance  now  occurred  which  had  important 
results.  The  members  of  the  Establishment  had  expected  to  be 
consulted  as  to  the  minister  to  be  settled  among  them,  when 
suddenly,  without  the  least  warning,  an  announcement  appeared 
in  the  newspaper  that  Mr.  Gibb  had  got  the  presentation,  a  man 
whom  they  had  never  seen  nor  heard  of.  "  How  the  people  were 
astounded  at  this.  Two  of  the  proprietors,  Mr.  Rattray,  and 
Mr.  Spalding  of  Broomhall,  another  of  the  leading  Heritors, 
were  determined  not  to  submit  to  be  used  in  this  manner.  They 
knew  nothing  about  the  man,  nor  could  ascertain  what  kind 
of  preacher  he  was,  but  they  found  out  that  he  was  a  man  far 
advanced  in  years,  and  so  was  unfit  for  a  large  Highland  parish. 
Almost  all  the  people  were  roused  to  a  pitch  of  indignation. 
Mr.  Spalding  wrote  out  a  petition  to  be  laid  before  the  Presby- 
tery, objecting  to  his  being  settled ;  and  as  it  was  signed  by  a 
great  majority  of  the  people,  they  expected  to  be  able  to  prevent 
the  settlement." 

The  narrative  of  what  took  place,  given  by  Mr.  M'Kenzie, 
deserves  notice,  as  illustrating  the  way  in  which  Lord  Aberdeen's 
Act  was  wrought  at  the  time. 

"The  day  came  when  Mr,  Gibb  had  to  make  his  personal 
appearance  in  the  parish  church.    A  very  crowded  congregation 


THE  DISEUPTION  IN  GLENISLA.  59 1 

assembled  to  see  and  hear  a  man  about  whom  so  much  had 
been  said  and  done.  The  seats  and  passages  of  the  church  were 
filled  up.  Well,  the  rev.  gentleman  at  last  made  his  appearance, 
and  came  into  the  church — a  tall,  stout  man,  of  majestic  appear- 
ance, like  Saul  among  the  people,  head  and  shoulders  above  most 
of  them,  and  something  determined-like  in  his  aspect.  If  his 
first  appearance  were  anything  like  a  criterion  to  judge  by,  his 
opposers  might  at  once  be  led  to  conclude  that  they  had  to 
contend  with  one  who  knew  his  rights  and  would  have  them — 
a  man  who  understood  better  than  any  of  them  the  liberties  of 
Lord  Aberdeen's  Act ;  liberty  for  him  to  come  and  be  their 
minister  at  all  hazards,  and  liberty  for  them  to  grumble  and 
leave  the  church  if  they  chose. 

"  There  was  no  one,  in  a  friendly  way,  to  show  him  to  the 
pulpit,  but  he  was  a  man  of  firm  nerve,  and  did  not  seem  to 
care,  and  made  his  way  to  it  through  the  people.  He  read  his 
lecture  and  sermon  closely,  in  a  formal,  business-like  manner, 
and  did  not  at  all  give  satisfaction. 

"  The  day  came  at  last  for  the  moderation  of  the  call,  and 
Mr.  Gibb  preached  from  these  words :  '  I  am  not  come  to 
destroy  the  law,  but  to  fulfil  it,'  which  were  thought  very 
appropriate.  After  sermon,  the  Moderator  of  the  Presbytery 
went  up  to  the  pulpit,  and  called  on  heritors,  elders,  and 
parishioners  to  come  forward  and  sign  Mr.  Gibb's  call,  but  there 
was  no  response  made  by  the  people.  A  second  announcement 
was  then  made,  with  the  same  result,  except  a  sullen  look  of 
opposition,  and  a  smile  from  one  to  another  among  the  people. 
A  third  call  was  made,  when  two  persons  rose  from  their  seats 
and  signed — namely,  Mr.  James  Stewart,  gamekeeper,  Tulchan  ; 
and  one  of  the  elders,  Mr.  William  M'Nicoll,  who  came  forward, 
and  with  trembling  hand,  which  all  could  see,  appended  his 
name.  Not  one  more  could  be  prevailed  upon,  notwithstanding 
calls  and  entreaties  ;  and  it  was  announced  from  the  pulpit 
that  the  call  was  left  for  some  days  with  the  schoolmaster  for 
the  purpose  of  getting  additional  signatures." 

The  attempt  to  arrest  the  settlement  of  the  presentee  was  not 
successful.  ]\Ir.  Gibb,  and  a  large  number  of  the  objectors,  met 
face  to  face  at  an  adjourned  meeting  of  Presbytery  held  at 


592  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

Meigle,  when  a  disagreeable  discussion  took  place,  which  served 
to  convince  the  parishioners  that  they  had  little  chance  of 
gaining  their  object,  and  they  set  themselves  to  consider  what 
should  be  done. 

About  that  time,  Mr.  Stewart  from  Kirkmichael  "came  to 
-preach  in  the  usual  place  of  meeting,  which  could  not  nearly 
contain  the  people,  and  they  had  just  to  go  to  the  wood  again. 
It  was  a  cold  day,  but  dry,  and  the  people  sat  upon  the  ground 
all  round  about.  He  preached  twice  from  the  words:  'The 
harvest  is  past,  the  summer  is  ended,  and  ye  are  not  saved.'  It 
was  a  very  alarming  sermon.  This  was  another  of  our  great 
days  among  us.  Many  felt  deeply  solemnised,  and  the  text,  and 
the  spot,  and  the  tree  under  which  he  stood,  are  hallowed  in  the 
remembrance  of  many  to  the  present  day.  .  .  .  "When  they 
pass  the  place,  the  people  will  say  one  to  another :  '  Here  is 
the  tree  where  Mr.  Stewart  stood  when  he  preached  yon  terrible 
sermon  ; '  and  then  the  text  is  repeated." 

Immediately  afterwards,  a  public  notice  appeared,  summoning 
a  meeting  of  the  objectors,  and  of  the  whole  of  the  inhabitants,  to 
be  held  in  the  school  at  Glenisla,  on  Thursday,  4tli  May,  1849. 
"  There  was  a  large  assemblage,  many  coming  from  a  distance,  as 
Glenisla  matters  were  much  noised  abroad.  The  first  thing  was 
to  vote  Mr.  Spalding,  one  of  the  proprietors,  into  the  chair,  but 
he  declined,  as  he  was  of  a  mind  to  take  part  in  the  discussion, 
which  he  could  not  so  well  do  were  he  chairman.  Mr.  Thomas 
Farquharson,  farmer,  Coldside,  was  then  appointed.  Mr.  Spalding 
stood  up,  and  began  showing  the  evils  of  patronage,  saying  it 
was  unscriptural,  and  had  been  a  great  evil  from  first  to  last, 
having  caused  all  the  divisions  and  disruptions  of  the  Church — 
the  Secession,  Eelief,  and  Free  Church.  He  produced  evidence 
of  what  he  said,  and  then  went  on  to  show  that  as  gross  an 
intrusion  was  about  to  be  perpetrated  in  that  parish  as  ever  had 
taken  place,  that  the  call  of  the  people  was  a  farce  and  a 
mockery  ;  that  only  two  among  them  were  got  to  sign  Mr. 
Gibb's  call,  while  so  many  objected  to  his  settlement ;  and  yet, 
so  far  as  any  one  could  see,  he  would  be  settled.  In  such  a  state 
of  things,  it  would  be  far  better  to  leave  the  Established  Church 
at  once,  than  go  up  to  Synod  and  Assembly,  with  a  great  deal  of 


THE  DISRUPTION  IN  GLENISLA.  593 

trouble  and  expense,  besides  making  a  fool  of  themselves.  His 
mind  was  made  up  to  leave  the  Established  Church,  and  it  was 
a  matter  of  consideration  with  what  body  they  should  join.  He 
thought  the  minority  should  go  in  with  the  majority,  and  let  no 
more  divisions  be  among  them.  It  would  be  very  little  trouble 
to  himself  to  go  to  Alyth,  but  many  of  them  could  not  do  so, 
and  he  would  be  willing  to  do  what  he  could  for  the  good  of  the 
people. 

"  Mr.  Eattray  of  Brewlands  then  stood  up,  and  said  that  he 
had  made  up  his  mind  not  to  sit  under  Mr.  Gibb.  He  could 
himself  go  either  to  Liutrathen  or  to  Persie,  but  he  was  well 
aware  that  the  people  could  not  do  so,  and  he  felt  it  to  be  his  duty 
to  remain  with  them,  provided  they  left  the  Establishment,  as  he 
might  be  useful  to  them.  Every  man  should  be  decided  one 
way  or  other,  and  openly  tell  what  they  were  resolved  to  do. 
There  were  three  motions  to  be  submitted  that  evening, — that 
they  should  join  the  Free  Church,  the  Seceders,  or  the  Independ- 
ents. His  wife,  Mr.  Spalding,  and  himself  had  made  up  their 
minds  to  join  one  or  other  of  these  Churches  whichever  the 
majority  might  prefer.  Those  who  were  for  the  Free  Church, 
he  said,  would  go  to  the  back  seats  on  the  north  side  of  the 
school ;  those  who  were  for  the  Seceders  should  go  to  the  seats 
on  the  south  side ;  and  another  seat  was  pointed  out  for  those 
who  voted  for  the  Independents.  Let  it  be  understood,  he  said, 
that  whatever  side  has  the  majority,  the  minority  will  fall  in  with 
it.  Mr.  Spalding  and  he  were  to  keep  the  middle  of  the  house,  and 
would  fall  in  with  the  majority  on  whatever  side  that  might  be. 
Mr.  Spalding  added  that  there  need  be  no  hesitation.  No  man 
can  submit  to  be  used  as  we  have  been,  and  now  is  the  time  to 
decide.  Mr.  Eattray  said  that  it  would  be  obliging  if  all  who 
did  not  belong  to  the  parish  would,  for  a  few  moments,  retire. 
After  they  left,  Mr.  Eattray  and  Mr.  Spalding  went  to  the 
middle  of  the  house,  so  as  not  to  influence  any  one. 

"  This  was  felt  to  be  a  very  interesting  moment.  When  they 
were  asked  to  take  their  side,  the  whole,  with  two  or  three  excep- 
tions, rose,  and  dehberately  went  to  the  seats  on  the  north  side 
— thus  voting  for  the  Free  Church — and  crowded  together,  so 
that  there  was  not  half  room  for  them,  amidst  clapping  of  hands 

2  Q 


594  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

and  cougratulq,tions  one  with  another.  John  Crombie,  the  inn- 
keeper, and  one  or  two  others,  took  the  seats  for  the  Independ- 
ents. Mr.  Rattray  went  and  asked  them  kindly  to  go  over  and 
join  the  others,  saying  he  was  glad  to  see  so  much  good  feeling. 
Then  he  said,  with  tears  in  his  eyes,  and  almost  choked  with 
emotion,  I  never  tliought  I  would  live  to  see  the  day  when  I 
would  be  forced  to  leave  the  Church  of  my  forefathers,  but  now 
the  day  has  come  contrary  to  my  wishes.  We  are  driven  from 
the  Establishment  by  the  hand  of  oppression.  The  first  thing 
they  had  to  do  was  to  see  where  they  should  meet  for  public 
worship.  We  must  immediately  set  about  getting  a  tent 
erected.  I  will  give  you  wood  from  East  Mill,  and  immediately 
get  sawyers  to  cut  it  for  that  i^urpose.  Mr,  Spalding  will  be 
appointed  to  correspond  with  the  Free  Church  Presbytery  as  to 
the  regular  supply  of  preaching  at  the  usual  hours. 

"  Mr.  Spalding  rose  and  said, — We  are  now  Free  Kirk  people 
by  our  own  consent.  We  cannot  say  we  left  the  Established 
Kirk  with  the  same  honour  as  if  we  had  done  it  at  the  first 
Disruption ;  but  we  have  stayed  in  till  we  have  been  rudely 
handled.  Now  let  us  act  as  those  that  are  worthy  of  freedom. 
Let  there  be  no  division  amongst  us.  We  have  been  much 
indebted  to  the  Free  Church  Presbytery  already  ;  and  now  much 
more  may  we  expect  their  help  when,  by  our  own  consent,  we 
are  united  to  them." 

Accordingly  a  deputation  appeared  before  the  Presbytery, 
consisting  of  between  thirty  and  forty  of  the  parishioners,  among 
whom  were  five  of  the  elders,  and  handed  in  a  memorial,  signed 
by  175  persons  who  had  been  members  of  the  Established 
Church,  intimating  their  resolution  to  join  the  Free  Church,  and 
stating  the  grounds  on  which  they  proceeded.  It  was  their 
unanimous  opinion  that  there  were  300  communicants,  par- 
ishioners of  Glenisla,  who  were  prepared  to  join  the  congregation 
when  it  was  formed.* 

Mr.  M'Kenzie  continues  his  narrative  of  what  went  on  in 
the  Glen  after  the  meeting  in  the  schoolhouse. 

"  Mr.  Bain  came  on  the  following  Sabbath  and  preached  in 
John  Crombie's  cart-shed.  It  was  a  very  rainy  day,  and  the 
*  Disr.  Mss.  Ixxxvi. 


THE  DISEUPTION  IN  GLENISLA.  595 

shed,  barn,  and  loft  were  filled,  while  the  rest  of  the  people 
stood  in  the  open  court,  with  plaids  and  umbrellas.  The 
text  was  Numbers  x.  29,  '  Come  with  us,  and  we  will  do  you 
good.'  It  was  a  precious  and  seasonable  sermon  to  us,  and 
listened  to  with  the  deepest  attention,  although  there  was  no 
allusion  to  what  had  taken  place  among  us. 

"  After  sermon,  the  intimation  was  made  that  the  Presbytery 
were  to  meet  at  Grlenisla.  This  was  a  novelty  in  the  Glen. 
The  meeting  was  held  at  Alrick,  and  was  very  numerously 
attended,  many  coming  from  Kirriemuir,  &c.  It  was  a  fine 
calm  afternoon,  with  the  sun  shining,  so  that  no  tent  was 
required.  The  people  went  to  the  side  of  the  wood,  where  a 
table  was  set,  and  as  many  chairs  as  could  be  got  for  the 
ministers  and  strangers  from  a  distance.  Mr.  Macdonald 
preached  from  these  words  :  '  God  is  love.'  After  sermon,  Mr. 
Stewart,  of  Kirkmichael,  gave  a  condensed  history  of  the  Church 
from  the  Eeformation.  Mr.  Bain,  of  Coupar- Angus,  brought 
down  the  history  to  the  Disruption,  and  Mr.  Ferguson,  from 
Alyth,  carried  it  on  to  the  present  time.  Mr,  Brown  spoke  a 
few  words,  very  atfectingly  stating  how  often  he  had  gone 
up  and  down  our  road  through  the  Glen,  praying  that  a  door  of 
usefulness  might  be  opened  among  us,  A  large  sheet  of  paper 
was  then  spread  out  on  the  table,  and  all  adherents  to  the  Free 
Church  were  called  to  come  forward  and  sign  it,  when  many 
cheerfully  put  down  their  names,  and  intimation  was  made  that 
those  not  present  would  have  an  opportunity  afterwards.  Steps 
also  were  taken  for  raising  the  Sustentation  Fund  ['  and  it  was 
resolved  to  start  at  once  as  a  self-supporting  congregation,  and 
build  the  church,  manse,  and  school  free  of  debt ']. 

"  This  was  one  of  our  greatest  days — a  day  to  be  held  in  re- 
membrance. None  of  us  ever  heard  of  an  open-air  meeting  of 
Presbytery  at  the  Glen.  The  large  multitude  was  dismissed  late 
in  the  evening,  seemingly  deeply  impressed  and  pleased. 

"  A  large  tent  was  soon  erected  at  the  side  of  the  road,  and 
we  had  regular  sermon  at  the  usual  hour,  and  the  Lord's  Supper 
was  dispensed  on  the  second  Sabbath  of  July. 

Steps  were  now  taken  for  building  a  church,  "  Mr.  Rattray 
offered  a  site  and  ground  for  a  glebe,  provided  we  would  trench 


596  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

and  inclose  it.  He  promised  also  to  put  the  bell  on  the  church, 
but  we  all  knew  he  would  do  more  than  that.*  A  subscription 
was  begun,  Mr.  Spalding  leading  the  way  with  a  sum  of  £20, 
seven  of  the  parishioners  following  with  £10  each.  Mrs. 
Fordyce,  from  Blairgowrie,  came  afterwards  and  left  £20,  while 
many  friends  sent  subscriptions.  The  building  was  commenced, 
and  the  church  roofed  in  before  the  winter. 

With  the  view  of  calling  a  minister,  "  probationers  were  sent 
to  preach  to  us.  We  had  got  so  much  freedom,  and  such  a 
variety  of  candidates,  that  it  was  feared  we  would  want  unan- 
imity in  our  choice.  One  day  Mr.  Rattray,  on  going  from 
home,  met  with  Mr.  Guthrie  of  Finhaven,  who  told  him  that 
there  was  a  Mr.  Simpson  in  Brechin  whom  we  should  hear 
before  we  fixed  on  any  one.  Accordingly  he  was  got  to  come, 
and  stayed  a  few  weeks,  after  which  he  was  unanimously  chosen, 
and  was  ordained  on  24th  January,  1850.  The  day  of  his 
ordination  happened  to  be  in  the  midst  of  a  very  great  storm 
and  heavy  fall  of  snow.  The  roads  were  entirely  blocked  up, 
and  there  was  no  access  to  the  Glen ;  the  snow  in  many  places 
having  drifted  to  a  great  depth.  It  was  obvious  there  was  no 
possibility  of  the  Presbytery  getting  forward,  and  great  anxiety 
was  felt,  when  the  day  drew  near,  with  no  appearance  of  the 
weather  breaking  up  and  getting  more  settled.  It  was  resolved 
to  clear  the  roads  by  manual  labour,  and  that  could  not  be  done 
a  night  beforehand,  as  one  night  might  make  them  as  bad  as 
ever.  Early  on  the  day  of  ordination,  therefore,  about  two 
score  of  able-bodied  young  men  commenced  work  in  right 
good  earnest,  and  cleared  the  road  for  about  four  miles  or 
thereby,  till  they  met  the  Presbytery  at  Milnacraig,  all  on  horse- 
back, following  each  other  in  a  straight  line,  and  Mr.  Simpson 
among  them.  All  parties  seemed  pleased.  The  people  were 
glad  when  they  saw  the  ministers  coming  in  such  numbers. 
They  had  felt  uncertain  whether  any  of  them  would  come 
through  such  a  storm  of  snow,  and  with  one  exception  all  were 
present.     The  Presbytery,  on  the  other  hand,  seemed  greatly 

*  Quite  a  well-founded  expectation.  Mr.  Eattray's  contributions  proved 
to  be  on  the  most  liberal  scale.  The  congregation  will  long  have  good  rea- 
son gratefully  to  cherish  his  memory. 


THE  DISRUPTION  IN  GLENISLA.  597 

pleased  that  such  exertions  had  been  made  by  the  peojale,  as 
they  had  been  doubtful  of  getting  through  the  snow. 

"  Mr.  Simpson's  settlement  was  very  cordial  and  harmonious. 
Mr.  Tasker,  from  Edinburgh,  who  came  on  the  following 
Sabbath  to  introduce  him,  congratulated  us  very  much  on  our 
choice,  and  told  us  openly  from  the  pulpit  that  we  had  been 
wisely  guided,  and  that  the  more  anyone  got  to  know  him,  the 
more  they  would  appreciate  his  worth.  We  have  now  (1865) 
had  him  labouring  amidst  us  for  fifteen  years,  and  find  that  this 
was  a  true  report,  but  that  the  one-half  had  not  been  told  us. 

"  The  disruption  in  our  glen,  we  believe,  has  been  one  of  the 
greatest  blessings  that  ever  happened  to  it.  One  minister  said, 
You  are  the  youngest  daughter  of  the  Disruption,  and  we  have 
all  sympathised  very  much  with  you.  See  that  you  be  not  like 
a  spoiled  child.  When  Dr.  Duff,  from  India,  visited  us,  he  told 
us  that,  when  he  read  in  the  newspapers,  on  the  banks  of  the 
Ganges,  the  account  of  the  Glenisla  Disruption,  he  rejoiced  with 
.  .  .  all  his  heart,  and  Glenisla  was  the  first  place  he  preached 
in  after  he  arrived  in  Scotland,     His  text  was  :  '  God  is  love.' 

"  We  have,  in  great  mercy,  been  blessed  with  a  time  of  revival 
and  many  precious  meetings  we  have  had,  and  many  have  been 
awakened  to  concern  about  the  state  of  their  souls  and  a  comino- 
eternity ;  and  not  a  few,  we  fondly  hope,  have  been  brought  to 
a  saving  knowledge  of  the  truth.  May  all  that  we  have  seen 
and  tasted  in  this  respect  be  only  as  the  small  drops  before  the 
full  shower  I  * 

*  Disr.  Mss.  IxxxvL 


598  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 


XLiV.  Social  Standing  of  Free  Chuech  Ministers. 

On  leaving  the  Established  Church,  it  was  expected  that  parish 
ministers  would  sacrifice  the  influential  position  which  they  held 
in  society,  and  to  many  of  them  the  prospect  of  this  change  was 
one  of  the  trials  most  keenly  felt.  In  vScotland,  indeed,  Dissent 
has  never  stood  in  a  position  of  social  inferiority  to  the  same 
extent  as  in  England,  owing,  perhaps,  to  the  fact  that  with  us 
the  Episcopalian  clergy  and  laity  are  Dissenters.  It  was  true, 
at  the  same  time,  that  a  certain  prestige  attached  to  those  who 
held  ofiice  in  the  Establishment,  and  it  was  not  without  reluc- 
tance that  men  prepared  to  give  up  their  position. 

It  was  under  this  aspect  also  that  the  change  presented 
itself  to  those  who  were  outside  the  Church.  When  Lord  Cock- 
burn,  with  his  usual  warmth  of  feeling,  is  describing  the  Dis- 
ruption sacrifice,  it  is  this  loss  of  worldly  position  on  which  he 
fixes  as  the  hardest  part  of  the  trial. 

"  For  the  present  the  battle  is  over.  But  the  peculiar  event 
that  has  brought  it  to  a  close  is  as  extraordinary,  and  its  con- 
sequences will  probably  prove  as  permanent  as  any  single  trans- 
action in  the  history  of  Scotland,  the  Union  alone  excepted. 
The  fact  of  above  450  clerical  members  of  an  Establishment, 
being  above  a  third  of  its  total  complement,  casting  it  off,  is 
sufficient  to  startle  any  one  who  considers  the  general  adhesive- 
ness of  Churchmen  to  their  sect  and  their  endowments.  But 
when  this  is  done  under  no  bodily  persecution,  with  no  accession 
of  power,  from  no  political  motive,  but  purely  from  the  dictates 
of  conscience,  the  sincerity  of  which  is  attested  by  the  sacrifice 
not  merely  of  professional  station  and  emoluments,  but  of  all 
worldly  interests,  it  is  one  of  the  rarest  occurrences  in  moral 
history.  I  know  no  parallel  to  it.  There  have  been  individuals 
in  all  ages  who  have  defied,  and  even  courted,  martyrdom  in  its 


SOCIAL  STANDING  OF  FEEE  CHUECH  MINISTERS.  599 

most  appalling  forms,  but  neither  the  necessity  of  such  a  fate 
nor  its  glory  have  been  within  the  view  of  any  one  in  modern 
times,  and  we  must  appreciate  recent  sacrifices  in  reference  to 
the  security  of  the  age  for  which  these  clergymen  were  trained. 
Such  a  domestic  catastrophe  never  entered  into  their  calcula- 
tions of  the  vicissitudes  of  life."  "  They  have  abandoned  that 
public  station  which  was  the  ambition  of  their  lives,  and  have 
descended  from  certainty  to  precariousness,  and  most  of  them 
from  comfort  to  destitution,  solely  for  their  principles.  And 
the  loss  of  the  stipend  is  the  least  of  it.  The  dismantling  of 
the  manse,  the  breaking  up  of  all  the  objects  to  which  the 
hearts  and  the  habits  of  the  family  were  attached,  the  shutting 
the  gate  for  the  last  time  of  the  little  garden,  the  termination  of 
ull  their  interest  in  the  humble  but  respectable  kirk — even  all 
these  desolations,  though  they  may  excite  the  most  immediate 
pangs,  are  not  the  calamities  which  the  head  of  the  house  finds 
it  hardest  to  sustain.  It  is  the  loss  of  station  that  is  the  deep 
and  lasting  sacrifice,  the  ceasing  to  be  the  most  important  man 
in  the  parish,  the  closing  of  the  doors  of  the  gentry  against  him 
and  his  family,  the  altered  prospects  of  his  children,  the  extinc- 
tion of  everything  that  the  State  had  provided  for  the  decent 
dignity  of  the  manse  and  its  inmates.  And  in  some  views 
these  self-immolations  by  the  ministers  are  surpassed  by  the 
gallantry  of  the  200  probationers  who  have  extinguished  all 
their  hopes  at  the  very  moment  when  the  vacancies  of  450 
pulpits  made  their  rapid  success  almost  certain. 

"  Yet  these  sacrifices  have  been  made  by  churchmen,  and  not 
by  a  few  enthusiastic  ones ;  and  with  no  bitterness  ;  with  some 
just  pride,  but  with  no  boasting ;  no  weak  lamentations,  but 
easily,  contentedly,  and  cheerfully.  I  have  conversed  with 
many  of  them,  especially  of  the  obscure  country  ministers,  who 
are  below  all  idea  of  being  ever  consoled  by  the  fame  and  large 
congregations  which  may  support  a  few  of  the  city  leaders,  and 
their  gentleness  and  gaiety  *  is  inconceivable."    "  It  is  the  most 

*  "  The  only  regret  expressed  to  me  by  the  minister  of  a  small  Highland 
parish,  a  good,  simple,  innocent  man,  who  had  to  quit  the  favourite  manse 
garden,  was  implied  in  this  question,  '  But,  my  Lord,  can  ye  tell  me  are 
thae  Moderates  entitled  to  eat  ma  rizzards  this  summer  ?'" 


600  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

honourable  fact  for  Scotland  that  its  whole  history  supplies. 
The  common  sneers  at  the  venality  of  our  country,  never  just, 
are  now  absurd."  * 

It  was  in  the  full  expectation  of  this  sacrifice  that  men  went 
forward ;  they  had  counted  the  cost.  At  once,  however,  it 
-became  plain  that  the  Disruption  had  modified  the  whole  rela- 
tions of  society  in  Scotland.  Even  worldly  rank  was  not  awanting 
to  the  new  movement.  Three  sons  of  baronets  were  in  the 
ministry  of  the  Church  of  Scotland  at  the  time,  and  one  was 
just  about  to  enter,  and  they  all  cast  in  their  lot  with  the  Free 
Church.  Among  the  leading  laymen  of  Edinburgh,  the  merchant 
princes  and  citizens  of  Glasgow,  the  farmers,  landed  proprietors 
and  untitled  gentry  over  Scotland,  there  were  thousands  whose 
adherence  was  enough  to  give  weight  to  any  cause,  even  in  the 
view  of  the  world.  And  along  with  these  there  were  some  of  the 
noblest  and  most  influential  of  our  noblemen.  Membership  in 
such  a  Church  could  hardly  be  supposed  to  infer  anything  like 
social  inferiority,  and  still  more  was  this  true  when  men  saw 
how  she  was  setting  herself  to  do  the  work  of  God  in  the  land. 

It  is  true  there  was  many  a  breach  of  social  ties,  and  the 
change  was  sometimes  painfully  felt.  The  minister  of  a  large  city 
congregation,  for  example,  had  been  the  familiar  friend  of  another 
distinguished  minister  in  a  similar  position.  For  twenty  years 
they  had  annually  assisted  each  other  on  the  communion 
Sabbath  in  their  respective  churches.  When  at  the  Disruption 
they  took  opposite  sides,  he  of  the  Free  Church,  one  of  the 
gentlest  and  most  lovable  of  men,  told  the  writer  of  this,  that 
he  had  sought  to  keep  the  bond  of  private  friendship  unbroken, 
but  found  that  it  was  not  to  be.  Once  they  met  where  he 
thought  the  barrier  might  have  been  broken  down.  On  a  foot- 
path along  the  banks  of  the  Clyde  they  were  walking  on  a 
summer  evening,  each  accompanied  by  his  wife,  the  one  party 
going  up  and  the  other  down  the  river-side.  On  meeting,  he  of 
the  Established  Church  sought  to  pass  with  a  distant  bow,  but 
the  ladies  refused  to  go  without  some  friendly  talk  for  the  sake  of 
former  days.  This  caused  a  few  minutes'  delay,  during  wliich 
the  Doctor  of  Divinity  belonging  to  the  Establishment  turned 
*  Journal,  ii.  p.  2,9. 


SOCIAL  STANDING  OF  FREE  CHUECH  MINISTERS.  601 

his  back,  and  became  intently  absorbed  in  admiring  the  beauties 
of  a  very  lovely  landscape. 

Although  this  breach  was  never  healed,  yet  in  many  such 
cases  the  feeling  of  alienation  was  only  temporary. 

Dr.  Guthrie  tells  how  in  his  parochial  work  he  had  received 
important  help  from  Lord  Medwyn — one  of  the  Judges  of  the 
Court  of  Session.  Though  he  was  a  rigid  Episcopalian,  while  Dr. 
Guthrie  was  a  no  less  determined  Presbyterian,  yet  they  were 
mutually  attracted  to  each  other,  and  stood  on  the  most  friendly 
footing.  After  some  of  Dr.  Guthrie's  speeches  on  the  Dis- 
ruption controversy,  however,  he  received  a  letter  from  Lord 
Medwyn  to  which  it  was  necessary  to  send  a  firm  reply. 

"  A  few  days  afterwards  I  passed  him  in  York  Place,  and,  lift- 
ing my  hat,  got  no  acknowledgment  of  my  courtesy.  It  was  the 
first  time  in  my  life  that  I  had  been  fairly  '  cut ' ;  and  it  was  not 
a  pleasant  sensation.  However,  respecting  his  sterling  worth,  and 
grateful  for  the  interest  he  had  taken  in  my  poor  parishioners 
I  resolved,  if  occasion  offered,  to  repeat  the  experiment  a  second 
and  even  a  third  time,  though  it  should  be  attended  with  no 
better  success.  Nor  was  it ;  I  mentally  saying  as  I  passed  him 
and  submitting  to  cut  the  third,  '  Three  times  is  fair  play.  You 
will  get  no  more  hats  from  me,  my  lord  ! ' 

"  Yet  it  turned  out  that  we  had  not  parted  for  ever  in  this  world, 
and  how  that  fell  out,  I  think  it  due  to  Lord  Medwyn  to  relate: — 

"  There  was  an  extraordinary  demand  for  sittings  in  Old  St. 
John's ;  and,  with  the  exception  of  a  few  pews  appropriated  to 
the  office-bearers  and  their  families,  the  whole  area  of  the  church 
was  kept  sacred  to  parishioners,  and  open  only  to  them  till  the 
first  Psalm  was  sung.  Then  on  the  doors  being  flung  open  to 
the  general  public,  the  throng  came  rushing  in  like  a  tide  to  fill 
every  vacant  corner  of  pew  and  passage. 

"  In  this  state  of  matters,  a  respectable-looking  woman  was 
one  day  ushered  into  my  study,  who  came  with  a  most  earnest 
request  that  she  might  get  a  sitting  in  the  gallery  of  our  church 
— the  only  part  of  it  allotted  to  outsiders  or  extra-parishioners. 
She  would  grudge  no  money  for  it.  I  advised  her  to  seek  a 
sitting  elsewhere,  as  there  were  hundreds  before  her  making 
similar  application.      She  looked  so  much  mortified  and  dis- 


602  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

tressed  that  I  was  induced,  as  she  opened  the  door  to  leave,  to 
ask  who  and  what  she  was.  '  The  housekeeper  of  Lord  Medwyn,' 
she  said.  At  once  I  called  her  back,  told  her  what  her  master 
had  done  to  serve  us,  and  that,  thinking  that  she  had  on  that 
account  a  better  right  to  a  sitting  than  almost  any  other  body  in 
-  the  church,  I  would  find  accommodation  for  her  in  my  own  family 
pew  until  a  vacancy  in  the  gallery  occurred. 

"  Well,  I  resumed  my  work,  the  work  which  she  had  inter- 
rupted ;  and  next  morning  was  thinking  no  more  of  Lord 
Medwyn  or  the  matter,  when,  on  hearing  my  study  open,  and 
turning  round  to  see  who  the  intruder  was,  what  was  my 
astonishment,  after  the  letter  he  had  written  me,  and  the  cool 
determined  way  in  which  he  had  three  times  cut  me  in  the 
street,  to  see  Lord  Medwyn  himself !  Before  I  had  recovered 
my  astonishment  he  stepped  up  to  me,  and  said,  with  a  noble 
generosity  of  temper,  sense  of  justice,  and  true  Christian 
humility,  '  Mr.  Guthrie,  before  I  ask  how  you  are,  let  me  say 
how  sorry  I  am  that  I  ever  wrote  you  that  letter.  I  have  heard 
from  my  housekeeper  the  manner  in  which  you  received  her  and 
spoke  of  me,  and  I  have  hastened  over  here  to  acknowledge  my 
error  and  tender  this  apology.' 

"  I  mention  this  to  the  honour  of  his  memory,  and  that  we 
may  learn  charity,  and  how  much  more  of  the  grace  of  God 
there  may  be  in  those  from  whom  we  differ  than  in  ourselves."  * 

But  while  some  breaches  were  healed,  and  some  were  never 
healed,  yet  there  were  on  the  whole  few  of  the  outgoing  ministers 
who  had  to  complain  of  the  loss  of  social  standing.  The  subject 
is  frequently  referred  to  in  the  Disruption  Mss.,  and  only  in  two 
cases  do  they  speak  of  anything  like  an  unfavourable  change.  "  I 
am  sensible,"  says  Dr.  Grierson  of  Errol,  "  that  I  have  incurred 
the  loss  of  a  considerable  share  of  social  respect  and  influence, 
especially  amongst  the  wealthier  classes  of  the  community.  .  .  . 
I  certainly  enjoy  increased  facilities  for  doing  good  to  the 
characters  and  souls  of  my  people.  1  am  sensible  of  en- 
joying, at  same  time,  a  larger  measure  of  attachment  from 
those  who  adhere  to  my  ministry."  •[•     So  also  Mr.  Eobertsou 

*  Memoir  of  Dr.  Guthrie,  i.  p.  406. 
t  Disr.  Mss.  xi.  p.  14. 


SOCIAL  STANDING  OF  FEEE  CHUECH  MINISTERS.  603 

of  Gartly  states:  "In  our  country  parishes  wliere  the  proprietors 
are  generally  hostile,  our  people  generally  poor,  and  the  wealthier 
classes  are  Moderates,  it  is,  I  think,  clear,  that  our  status  is  con- 
sidered as  lowered,  and  our  influence  is  lessened  with  the  higher 
classes,  though,  I  believe,  that  even  with  these  there  is  no 
diminution  of  real  respect."  * 

How  far  such  experiences  were  due  to  personal  or  local 
circumstances,  it  is  impossible  to  say,  but  usually  the  results  are 
spoken  of  in  a  very  different  way.  Mr.  Innes  of  Deskford, 
Banffshire,  experienced  little  or  no  diminution  of  social  respect 
or  influence.  "  Those  friends  whom  I  formerly  most  respected 
and  esteemed,  still  continue  their  friendship,  even  in  cases 
where  they  are  not  members  of  the  Free  Church,  and,  I  believe, 
I  may  add,  with  increasing  cordiality."  -j- 

At  Ardoch,  Perthshire,  Mr.  Grant  writes:  "That  I  was  to 
lose  social  respect  and  influence  gave  me  much  pain  at  the 
Disruption,  but  I  have  been  agreeably  disappointed,  for  I  never 
enjoyed  so  much  respect  and  influence  as  since  that  event."  I 

At  Farr,  Sutherland,  Mr.  M'Kenzie  was  not  sensible  of  having 
experienced  any  loss  of  social  position.  "  It  is  true  that  the 
richer  classes,  such  as  factors  and  sheep-farmers,  and  a  few 
calling  themselves  gentry,  have  remained  in  the  Establishment, 
but  of  such  persons  the  number  is  small  in  this  locality.  With 
them  I  had  been  on  friendly  terms  before  the  Disruption,  and 
my  observation  and  experience  prove  to  me  that  the  ministers 
of  the  Free  Church  are  more  respected  by  the  few  genteel 
Moderate  hearers  than  their  successors  in  office."  § 

Dr.  Burns,  of  Kilsyth,  states  :  "  In  respect  of  influence  in 
society,  there  is  really  scarcely  any  diminution.  The  Superior 
(Sir  A.  Edmonstone,  Bart.)  shows  unfeigned  regard  on  all  occa- 
sions, listens  to  all  recommendations  as  to  the  poor  and  public 
good,  although  anxious  to  guard  consistency."  |) 

Mr.  Greig,  of  St.  Ninians,  lived  only  eleven  months  after  the 
Disruption,  but  that  period  he  considered  the  happiest  he  spent 
on  earth.  One  who  knew  him  well  states  that  never  did  he 
shine  more  in  the  pulpit,  or  preach  more  to  the  delight  and 

*  Disr.  Mss.  xvii.  p.  6.  t  Ibid.  xv.  p.  8.  t  Ibid.  xiii.  p.  9. 

§  Ibid.  XX.  p.  9.  II  Ibid.  xxix.  pp.  23,  24. 


604  ANNALS  OP  THE  DISKUPTION. 

profit  to  his  hearers,  and  never  did  he  meet  with  more  numerous 
and  gratifying  tokens  of  affection  and  respect.  At  the  time  of 
his  sudden  death,  he  occupied  a  more  influential  position  than 
ever  before.  He  felt  as  if  he  were  breathing  a  purer  and 
fresher  air.     His  last  days  were  his  best  days.* 

Such  was  the  experience  of  the  outgoing  ministers  in  the 
rural  districts  and  county  towns  all  over  Scotland.  In  the 
larger  cities  the  change  was  even  less  percejDtible,  as  the  state- 
ment of  Dr.  Lorimer  of  Glasgow  shows.  It  may  be  taken  as 
expressing  the  general  result  in  similar  circumstances  : — 

"  I  am  not  aware  of  any  real  disadvantages  which  I  have 
suffered  [socially]  by  the  change.  There  has  been  so  far  a 
change  in  outward  position,  but  certainly  there  has  been  no 
loss  of  social  respect.  On  the  contrary,  the  outward  tokens 
of  such  respect  have  been  multiplied  and  rendered  more  warm. 
.  .  .  My  general  influence  in  society,  I  am  pretty  sure,  has  been 
increased."  -f- 

It  thus  became  plain  that  the  Disruption  had  modified  the 
whole  relations  of  society.  The  world  involuntarily  pays 
respect  to  integrity  and  self-sacrifice  in  connection  with  reli- 
gious principle ;  and  ministers  of  the  Free  Church  found 
that  they  were  followed  by  so  much  of  respect  on  the  part  of 
their  fellow-men  as  preserved  the  weight  and  influence  which 
they  formerly  had.  What  helped  in  this  was  the  readiness 
which  the  Free  Church  showed  to  take  her  share  in  any 
good  work  that  was  required  in  the  community.  There  was 
no  standing  aloof.  When  famine  broke  out  in  the  Highlands 
in  1844,  she  raised  at  once  a  sum  of  £15,000  and  sent  relief. 
When  religious  revival  arose,  the  Free  Church  united  with  other 
Christian  brethren,  and  threw  herself  into  the  work. 

It  is  not  for  us  to  go  into  detail  as  to  the  tokens  of  social 
respect,  but  one  example  may  be  given  to  show  how  such  things 
were  sometimes  met  with  in  the  highest  circles  and  in  unex- 
pected quarters. 

The  Marquis  of  Bute  was  one  of  those  to  whom  the  Disrup- 
tion was  a  great  disappointment.     As  Eoyal  Commissioner  it 
had  been  hoped  that  a  nobleman  of  his  influence  might  have 
*  Parker  Mss.  f  Disr.  Mss.  i.  pp.  10,  1 1. 


SOCIAL  STANDING  OF  FREE  CHUECH  MINISTERS.  605 

done  mucli  to  prevent  the  threatened  breach,  and  the  result 
seems  to  have  wounded  hira.  At  all  events  he  lost  no  time  in 
making  the  Free  Church  feel  the  weight  of  his  hostility.  There 
was  a  quoad  sacra  church  in  North  Bute  which  the  Marquis 
had  built ;  the  minister,  Mr,  M'Bride  had  "  gone  out,"  and  the 
sacrament  was  to  be  dispensed  within  a  fortnight  of  the  rising 
of  the  Assembly.  Mr.  M'Bride  had  applied  for  leave  to  use 
the  building  till  after  the  communion,  and  470  communicants 
including  the  whole  tenantry  of  the  parish,  with  two  or  three 
exceptions,  had  sent  a  petition  to  the  same  effect.  A  few  hours, 
however,  after  the  petition  had  been  despatched,  a  letter  from 
his  Lordship  was  received  by  Mr.  M'Bride,  ordering  him  at  once 
to  send  the  keys  of  the  church  to  the  factor.  Next  day,  the 
congregation  met  for  Divine  worship  on  the  public  highway 
amidst  torrents  of  rain,  while  the  church  was  locked  up.  "  No 
graphic  pencil  is  wanted  to  portray  the  scene  or  the  feelings  of 
the  people,"  *  who  stood  without  flinching,  while  the  solemn 
services  of  the  day  were  gone  through. 

Other  incidents  which  took  place  showed  the  same  keenness 
of  feeling,-f-  and  yet  his  respect  for  the  outgoing  ministers  of  the 
Free  Church  could  not  be  wholly  concealed.  One  interesting 
example  is  given  by  Mr.  Landsborough  of  Kilmarnock : — 

"As  the  late  Mr.  Bannatyne,  Old  Cumnock,  was  much  my 
senior  in  age,  and  also  in  a  different  Presbytery,  I  was  not  inti- 
mately acquainted  with  him.  I  assisted  him,  however,  in  the 
year  1862  on  the  Monday  of  a  communion,  and  after  service  he 
and  I  had  a  good  deal  of  conversation.  As  I  was  aware  that  he 
had  been  chaplain  to  the  late  Marquis  of  Bute  when  Royal  Com- 
missioner, I  knew  he  would  be  intimately  acquainted  with  the 
Church  affairs  of  Disruption  times,  and  purposely  endeavoured 
to  lead  the  conversation  to  that  topic.  The  information  he  gave 
was  so  important  and  interesting  that  as  soon  as  I  got  home  I 
noted  it  down.  Passing  by  statements  such  as  that  'it  was  under- 
stood that  Sir  Robert  Peel  would  have  acceded  to  the  demands 
of  the  Church  had  not  Lord  Aberdeen  and  Sir  James  Graham 
declared  that  if  he  did,  they  would  resign,'  for  the  truth  of  which 

*  Witness  Newspaper,  14tli  June,  1843. 
t  One  of  them  is  recorded,  p.  362. 


606  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

Mr.  Bannatyne  did  not  vouch,  I  give  in  full  what  he  told  ma 
regarding  himself,  and  that  of  which  he  had  personal  knowledge. 
*  The  Marquis  of  Bute,  having  been  appointed  Queen's  Commis- 
sioner in  1842,  did  me  the  honour  of  electing  me  to  be  his 
chaplain.  When  the  General  Assembly  of  1843  was  approach- 
ing, having  made  up  my  mind  to  leave  with  the  Evangelical 
party,  I  felt  that  after  all  the  kindness  I  had  received  from  his 
Lordship  I  ought  not  to  allow  him  to  be  subjected  to  the 
awkwardness  of  being  left  without  a  chaplain ;  and  therefore 
wrote  to  him  in  good  time,  resigning  the  appointment,  explain- 
ing my  reason  for  so  doing.  The  Marquis,  in  his  reply,  wrote 
that  the  Government  had  received  assurances  from  the  best 
authorities  that  not  more  than  twelve  ministers  would  go  out, 
and  he  asked  me  not  to  resign,  but  to  allow  another  to  take  my 
place  for  one  year,  and  by  another  the  storm  would  have  blown 
past.  I  wrote  that  the  Government  were  being  misled,  that  I 
was  quite  decided  as  to  the  course  I  must  take,  and  respectfully 
renewed  my  resignation.  I  went  to  town  two  days  before  the 
Assembly  met,  and  at  once  called  on  the  Marquis,  who,  referring 
to  my  letter,  said  that,  in  addition  to  former  assurances,  my 
neighbour,  Mr.  Stewart  of  Sorn  (afterwards  of  Liberton)  had 
told  him  that  not  more  than  ten  ministers  would  leave.  I 
replied  that  400  would,  when  his  Lordship  became  excited.  I 
had  no  further  intercourse  with  the  Marquis  till  a  son  and  heir 
was  born  to  him  (1847),  when,  remembering  past  kindnesses,  I 
wrote  to  congratulate  him,  and  received  a  reply  in  course,  in 
which  he  wrote  that  he  had  received  congratulations  innumer- 
able from  royalty  downward,  but  not  one  of  them  had  given  him 
so  much  gratification  as  that  from  his  old  friend  Mr.  Bannatyne, 
and  that  he  hoped  that  in  future  I  would  be  a  frequent  visitor 
at  Dumfries  House.' " 

It  was  a  cordial  and — coming  from  such  a  quarter — a  re- 
markable tribute  to  the  secret  respect  with  which  the  ministers 
of  the  Free  Church  were  regarded. 


THE  FUNDS.  607 


XLV.  The  Funds. 

In  closing  this  Part  of  the  "  Annals,"  we  must  now  refer  to  the 
amount  of  money  raised  by  the  Free  Church  in '  aid  of  her 
operations  at  home  and  abroad.  Not,  assuredly,  in  the  spirit  of 
boasting,  but  in  thankfulness  to  God,  who  opened  the  hearts  of 
the  people,  we  must  speak  of  the  liberality  with  which  they 
brought  their  free-will  offerings  into  the  treasury. 

In  judging  of  this,  "we  must  remember,"  says  Dr.  Dufit" 
"  that  at  the  Disruption  we  came  out  of  a  Church  system  and 
polity  in  which  almost  everything  was  done  for  us,  so  that  we  our- 
selves had  almost  nothing  to  do.     We  had  everything  to  learn." 

There  were,  indeed,  voluntary  self-supporting  churches  in  Scot- 
land before,  but  the  course  on  which  the  Free  Church  was 
entering  was  new  and  untried.  The  Old  Seceders  had  risen  up 
to  their  position  by  a  slow  process  of  growth.  The  Free  Church 
had  started  with  583  ministers  during  the  first  year.  What  if 
men  should  get  weary  of  the  Sustentation  Fund  after  the  first 
flush  of  novelty  was  past,  and  the  plan  hitherto  untried  should 
give  way  ?  The  struggle  with  poverty  would  be  hard  for  the 
outgoing  ministers. 

Misgivings  of  this  kind  were  present  to  the  hearts  of  many 
friends  of  the  Free  Church,  while  among  her  opponents  the 
future  was  often  spoken  of  in  such  terms  as  showed  that  "  ridi- 
cule and  mockery  did  not  cease  with  the  days  of  Nehemiah." 

In  one  of  the  Border  counties,  where  a  flourishing  Free 
Church  now  stands,  the  people  had  with  difficulty  obtained  a 
site  in  an  unfavourable  position.  While  the  workmen  were 
beginning  their  operations,  it  happened  that  two  Established 
Church  ministers  rode  past  on  their  way  home  from  a  meeting 
of  Presbytery,  and  were  heard  amusing  themselves  by  remark- 
ing on  the  appearance  of  the  ground.  "  It's  a  poor  place, '  one 
of  them  said.  "  Yes,"  said  the  other,  "  but  I  daresay  it  will  grow 
as  many  potatoes  as  the  minister  will  be  able  to  get  salt  for." 


608  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

Thus,  amidst  the  fears  of  friends,  and  the  exjDectations  of 
adversaries,  much  uncertainty  hung  over  the  future,  but  there  was 
one  man  in  Scotland  who  foresaw  what  was  really  coming.  A  per- 
sonal reminiscence  in  illustration  of  this  may  here  be  given : — 

In  the  summer  of  1843  I  happened  to  meet  Dr.  Chalmers 
at  Monboddo  House,  the  hospitable  mansion  of  Captain  Bur- 
nett, and  to  drive  with  him  and  Mrs.  Burnett  in  their  carriage 
over  the  Garvock  hills,  on  the  way  to  St.  Cyrus.  After 
pausing  on  the  summit  to  admire  the  long,  richly -culti- 
vated valley  of  Strathmore,  with  its  western  rampart  of  Gram- 
pian Mountains,  we  began  to  descend  towards  St.  Cyrus, 
where  Dr.  Chalmers  was  to  be  the  guest  of  Dr.  Keith,  and  to 
address  a  meeting  in  the  barn  then  occupied  as  a  place  of 
worship.  On  the  way,  he  relapsed  into  one  of  those  fits  of 
abstraction  and  silence  so  common  with  him,  but  which  in 
this  case  lasted  longer  than  usual.  Suddenly,  after  a  time, 
he  roused  himself,  and  speaking  with  singular  emphasis,  ex- 
claimed, "  I  will  not  be  satisfied  unless  the  Free  Church  has 
an  income  of  £300,000  a-year."  I  confess  it  startled  me.  I 
had  indeed  some  doubt  whether  I  had  heard  aright,  and 
ventured  some  remark  as  to  the  amount.  "  Yes  !"  he  repeated 
"  we  must  have  £300,000  a-year."  *  I  then  took  the  liberty  of 
referring  to  a  recent  Parliamentary  return,  which  showed  that 
the  whole  income  of  the  Establislied  Church  was  considerably 
less  than  this,  and  suggesting  whether  it  would  not  be  difficult 
for  our  people  by  their  free-will  ofl'erings  to  go  beyond  the 
whole  of  those  endowments  which  the  State  had  provided.  "  I 
do  not  care.  Sir,"  he  replied  with  increasing  vehemence ;  "  it 
will  be  seen  what  the  people  can  do."  And  then,  as  he  opened 
out  his  views,  one  could  only  listen  with  delight  while  he  spoke 
of  "  the  power  of  littles,"  and  how  full  of  encouragement  the 
future  of  the  Free  Church  was.  It  was  delightful  to  listen  to, 
but  not  very  easy  to  believe. 

The  truth  is — as  Mr.  Dunlop  frankly  confessed  in  1845 — 
these  sanguine  anticipations  of  Dr.  Chalmers  were  "  looked  on 
as  enthusiastic  dreams."  How  they  became  realised  facts,  and 
more  than  realised,  we  have  already  seen  in  part.     We  now 

*  Stated  afterwards  in  public  at  Inverness,  Blue  Book,  1845,  p.  105. 


THE  FUNDS. 


609 


present  in  one  view  the  whole  money  contributions  raised  by 
the  Eree  Church  for  the  first  thirty-five  years.  The  reader  will 
see  at  a  single  glance  what  has  been  done,  and  how  the  expecta- 
tions of  Dr.  Chalmers  have  been  not  only  fulfilled  but  exceeded. 


Total  Amount  of  Money  contributed  by  the  Free  Church. 

Average  for  Periods 
of  Five  Years. 

Annual    Average 
for  the  first  five  }  £318,086  10     4 
years, 


Annual    Average 
for   the    second  }     285,683     C  10 
five  years. 


lEAR. 

AmouB 

t. 

r.  31,1844 

£366,719 

14 

3 

1845 

334,483 

18 

9 

1846 

301,067 

5 

8 

„   1847 

311,695 

18 

7 

1848 

276,465 

14 

5 

1849 

275,081 

4 

4 

1850 

306,622 

0 

1 

1851 

303,484 

6 

9 

1852 

267,479 

12 

5 

1853, 

275,749 

10 

9 

1854 

287,574 

12 

4 

1855 

307,523 

11 

0 

„   1856 

289,305 

5 

9 

„   1857 

308,875 

0 

3 

1858 

331,871 

3 

4 

1859 

343,377 

12 

10 

1860 

316,557 

19 

9 

1861 

329,941 

2 

4 

„   1862 

337,204 

4 

11 

„   1863, 

341,935 

9 

2 

„   1864 

343,134 

8 

9 

1865 

356,660 

13 

9 

1866 

383,572 

4 

10 

1867 

369,088 

1 

6 

1868 

395,638 

14 

5 

1869 

421,783 

13 

10 

1870 

,  427,621 

18 

10 

„   1871 

413,398 

2 

4 

„   1872, 

432,623 

9 

9 

1873, 

452,789 

7 

3 

„   1874 

511,884 

4 

6 

1875 

525,424 

12 

1 

1876 

534,450 

14 

9 

1877 

565,195 

10 

3 

„   1878, 

575,718 

19 

9 

Annual    Average 
for  the  third  five  )-     305,029  10     6 
years, 


Annual    Average 
for    the    fourth  )■     333,803     5     9 
five  years, 


Annual    Average 

for  the  fifth  five  V     369,618  10     3 
years, 


Annual    Average  ~| 

for     the     sixth  V     429,643     4     2 
five  years,  .  ) 


Annual    Average  } 

for  the  seventh  V     542,534     9   10 
five  years,  .  j 

2R 


610  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

The  total  amount  for  these  thirty-five  years  is  a  sum  of 
Twelve  million  nine  hundred  and  twenty-two  thousand  pounds, 
four  shillings  and  threepence. 

The  annual  average  over  the  whole  is  £369,200. 

And  this  all  proceeds  from  the  free-will  offerings  of  the  people. 

Tlie  sanguine  estimate  of  Dr.  Chalmers  has  been  actually 
exceeded  on  the  whole  average  of  these  years  by  nearly  £70,000 
of  annual  income. 

It  is  still  more  striking  to  observe  that  for  the  last  seven 
years  (1874-80),  instead  of  the  estimated  £300,000,  the  revenue 
has  largely  exceeded  £500,000 — half-a-million  sterling. 

Such  results  sufficiently  show  the  strength  of  principle  and 
depth  of  religious  feeling  which  were  enlisted  in  the  cause. 
The  Free  Church  appealed  to  the  love  and  loyalty  which  men 
bore  to  Christ,  and  it  was  this  which  set  open  the  fountain  of 
Christian  liberality,  and  ever  since  has  kept  the  stream  not 
only  flowing  but  deepening. 

Not  since  Apostolic  times,  said  Dr.  R  Buchanan  (1867),  has 
there  ever  been  a  more  noble  "  outburst  of  joyful,  self-denying, 
large-hearted,  loving  liberality  to  God's  cause  than  was  exhi- 
bited by  this  Church  of  ours  in  the  ever-memorable  1843.  It  was 
a  blessed  time  of  refreshing  from  the  presence  of  the  Lord  and 
from  the  glory  of  His  power.  .  .  .  Who  that  had  any  part  in  that 
time  can  look  back  on  it  without  feeling  as  if  no  other  words  could 
adequately  describe  it  but  those  of  the  68th  Psalm :  "  O  God, 
when  Thou  wentest  forth  before  Thy  peojjle,  when  Thou  didst 
march  through  the  wilderness  ;  the  earth  shook,  the  heavens  also 
dropped  at  the  presence  of  God :  even  Sinai  itself  was  moved 
at  the  presence  of  God,  the  God  of  Israel.  Thou,  0  God,  didst 
send  a  plentiful  rain,  whereby  Thou  didst  confirm  Thine  inherit- 
ance, when  it  was  weary.  Thy  congregation  hath  dwelt  therein  : 
Thou,  0  God,  hast  prepared  of  Thy  goodness  for  the  poor.  The 
Lord  gave  the  Word ;  great  was  the  company  of  those  that 
published  it." 


part   IF. 


The  Effect  of  the  Disruption  on  the 
Religious  Life  of  Scotland. 


DANGERS  IN  1S43.  611 


XLVI.  Dangers  in  1843. 

In  the  following  sections  our  object  will  be  to  give  some  account  of 
the  work  done  by  the  Free  Church  in  advancing  the  cause  of  true 
religion  in  the  land.  Already  in  these  Annals  we  have  seen  the 
conflict  through  which  she  passed  when  the  battle  of  spiritual 
freedom  was  fought  and  won.  We  have  traced  her  after  history, 
amidst  those  sacrifices  and  trials  which  followed  the  Disruption. 
And  now  we  come  to  the  more  peaceful  and  less  exciting  scenes 
in  which  she  was  seeking  to  carry  out  the  great  work  for  which 
the  Christian  Church  exists  on  earth — the  upholding  of  the 
cause  of  Christ,  and  spreading  among  the  people  the  blessings 
of  salvation. 

There  were,  it  must  be  admitted,  very  serious  difficulties  in 
her  way  at  the  outset.  For  many  months  the  anxiety  and  toil 
of  the  conflict  had  been  excessive.  Working  at  high  pressure, 
with  every  power  of  body  and  of  mind  stretched  to  the 
uttermost,  it  was  obvious  that  men  could  not  long  endure  the 
strain — a  time  of  reaction  might  be  expected  to  set  in,  when  those 
who  had  borne  the  burden  and  heat  of  the  day  might  sink  into 
lassitude  and  depression.  If  this  fear  had  been  realised,  the 
warmth  of  spiritual  earnestness  which  had  carried  them  through 
the  struggle  would  soon  have  grown  cold — the  tide  of  religious 
zeal  which  had  been  running  at  high  flood  would  have  been 
followed  by  the  inevitable  ebb,  and  the  bright  promise  of 
spiritual  blessing  would  have  passed  away. 

The  fickleness  and  instability  of  the  human  mind,  might 
well  have  given  rise  to  such  misgivings,  but  there  was 
still  greater  cause  for  anxiety,  on  looking  to  certain  ominous 
warnings  in  the  past  history  of  the  Church.  Times  of  remarkable 
spiritual  life  and  activity  have  not  unf  requently  been  followed  by 


612  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

times  of  degeneracy  and  decay.  Among  the  Protestant  Churches 
of  the  Continent  there  was,  at  the  Reformation,  a  great  outburst 
of  religious  earnestness ;  but,  one  by  one,  they  lost  their  first 
love,  and  fell  into  coldness  and  deadness.  In  our  own  country, 
the  marvellous  awakening  of  the  Second  Reformation  soon  had 
its  bright  promise  overcast ;  and,  after  the  Revolution,  our 
Church,  which  had  stood  the  fierce  fires  of  the  long  persecution, 
no  sooner  came  forth  from  the  furnace  than  signs  of  unfaithful- 
ness appeared,  and  went  on  increasing  till  she  sank  into  the 
depths  of  Moderatisra.  Thus  it  was  that  past  experience  might 
well  suggest  anxious  misgivings  for  the  future,  lest  what  had 
happened  before  should  happen  again. 

There  was  some  reason  to  fear,  also,  that  the  spirit  of  contro- 
versy in  the  Free  Church  might  prove  hostile  to  her  spiritual 
life.  For  ten  years,  controversy  of  a  very  serious  kind  had 
been  unavoidable,  and  men  had  become  inured  to  it.  But  the 
training  which  makes  a  good  soldier  is  not  that  which  makes  a 
good  agriculturist,  and  practised  skill  in  the  conflicts  of  religious 
debate  might  seem  to  be  but  an  indifferent  preparation  for  the 
work  of  ministering  to  the  wants  of  human  souls,  and 
spreading  among  the  people  the  blessings  of  the  Gospel  of 
peace.  Apart,  indeed,  from  the  question  of  personal  fitness,  it 
might  well  have  been  doubted  how  far  God's  blessing  could 
be  expected  on  her  efforts.  In  Bible  history,  King  David  was 
not  allowed  to  build  the  Temple,  because  he  had  been  a  man  of 
war.  The  battles  he  fought  were  the  battles  of  the  Lord ;  but 
the  mere  fact  that  he  had  been  a  warrior  was  enough  to  set  him 
aside,  and  no  stone  of  the  sacred  building  could  be  laid  by  his 
hand.  And  so,  when  it  came  to  the  great  work  of  spreading 
spiritual  religion  among  the  people,  might  not  the  Free  Church 
have  been  passed  over  ?  It  had  been  a  good  fight  for  great 
Scriptural  principles  which  she  had  fought,  but  the  very 
consciousness  of  this  had  given  a  certain  sternness  to  the 
conflict ;  and  might  not  a  Church  which  had  been  thrown  into 
such  an  attitude  have  been  made  to  stand  aside,  and  leave 
to  other  hands  the  great  practical  work  of  spreading  the  blessings 
of  salvation  among  the  people  ? 

But  the  Greatest  risk  of  all  was  the  danger  of  a  boastful 


DANGERS  IN  1843.  613 

spirit  showing  itself  in  the  Free  Church,  The  way  in  which  she 
had  risen  from  the  ruins  of  the  Disruption  had  filled  both  friends 
and  foes  with  wonder.  The  deed  of  self-sacrifice  at  the  outset, 
the  energy  of  her  subsequent  proceedings,  and  the  unheard-of 
liberality  of  her  contributions,  were  everywhere  spoken  of. 
Congratulations  came  pouring  in  from  so  many  of  the  Churches 
of  Britain,  America,  and  the  Continent,  that  she  found  herself 
the  observed  of  all  observers.  Most  perilous  of  all,  her  ministers 
and  members  were  looked  up  to  as  conspicuous  examples  of 
high-toned  spirituality  and  religious  earnestness.  All  this 
might  have  proved  a  fatal  snare  if  the  Free  Church  had  given 
way  to  the  spirit  of  boastfulness  and  pride,  tarnishing  the 
lustre  of  the  sacrifice  she  had  made,  and  bringing  a  fatal  blight 
over  all  her  prospects  of  spiritual  usefulness. 

It  is  interesting  to  observe  how  the  men  who  were  prominent 
in  Disruption  times  were  alive  to  the  dangers  of  the  position. 
"  It  seems  to  have  fallen  in  the  providence  of  Cod  to  the  Free 
Church,"  said  Dr.  Candlish,  "  to  attract  on  various  accounts  the 
attention  of  other  bodies,  and  we  cannot  but  feel  that  this, 
among  other  circumstances,  puts  this  Church  in  a  situation  of 
peculiar  responsibility.  If  we  are  as  a  city  set  on  an  hill,  and 
if  we  have  been  so  moved  and  directed  in  the  adoption  of  our 
measures  as  to  call  forth  the  regards  and  attract  the  sympathies 
of  other  bodies  of  evangelical  Christians, — and,  above  all,  if  we 
have  any  reason  to  believe,  as  others  are  ready  to  believe,  and 
some  of  us  are  constrained  to  feel  that,  as  a  Church,  we  have, 
in  some  measure,  experienced  the  presence  and  power  of  the 
Spirit  of  God, — I  say,  all  these  considerations  are  fitted,  not  to 
fill  us  with  exalted  feelings  of  complacency,  but  rather  to 
make  us  sensible  of  our  deep  unworthiness  and  heavy  responsi- 
bility."* 

Dr.  Henry  Grey,  Moderator  of  the  Assembly  of  1844,  brought 
the  whole  subject  before  the  Presbytery  of  Edinburgh  in  an 
elaborate  paper-j*;  and  Mr.  Andrew  Gray,  of  Perth,  in  a  still 
more  powerful  address,  gave  an  emphatic  warning  in  the 
Assembly  of  1848  :  while  incidental  statements  in  the  same 

*  Commission  of  General  Assembly,  August,  1844 — Wit7iess  newspaper, 
t  Free  Church  Marjaxine,  v.  65. 


614  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

strain  will  be  -found  scattered,  from  time  to  time,  through  the 
speeches  of  the  more  prominent  leaders  of  the  Church. 

That  the  Free  Church  was  able,  in  all  respects,  to  keep  clear 
of  these  dangers  no  one  will  allege.  It  was  inevitable  tliat 
among  so -many  ministers  and  members  exposed  to  the  temjata- 
tions  incident  to  their  new  position,  there  would  be  errors 
in  judgment,  and  shortcomings  and  failures  in  duty.  And 
yet,  amidst  all  such  results  of  human  imperfection,  the  Free 
Church  was  enabled  steadfastly  to  hold  on  her  course  and  do 
much  earnest  work  for  the  cause  of  Christ.  It  may  safely  be  left 
for  future  years  to  determine  how  far  the  Disruption  of  1843  is 
destined  to  form  a  marking  epoch  in  the  religious  history  of 
Scotland.  In  the  meantime,  it  will  be  our  object  in  the  follow- 
ing pages  to  show  in  what  spirit  the  Free  Church  addressed 
herself  to  the  work  which  God  had  given  her  to  do,  and  what 
efforts  she  was  prepared  to  make  in  carrying  it  forward. 


THE  church's  testimony  FOR  CHRIST'S  HEADSHIP.       615 


XL VII.  The  Church's  Testimony  for  Christ's  Headship. 

The  first  great  service  which  the  Free  Church  rendered  to  the 
cause  of  true  religion  was  the  testimony  which  she  bore  to  the 
sole  headship  of  Christ  as  King  over  His  Church.  It  fell  to 
her  to  vindicate  the  crown  rights  of  the  Redeemer,  while 
maintaining  that  no  civil  court  must  interfere  in  regard 
to  things  spiritual  so  as  to  prevent  the  Church  from  following 
out  what  she  held  to  be  the  mind  of  Christ.  It  was  to  Him 
alone,  in  things  sacred,  she  owed  allegiance.  Whatever  Kings, 
or  parliaments,  or  judges  might  say,  One  was  her  master,  even 
Christ,  whom  she  was  bound  to  serve ;  and  her  single  object 
must  ever  be  to  know  His  will  and  do  it,  despite  of  all  inter- 
ference. For  this  great  principle  she  contended  and  suffered — 
the  spiritual  freedom  and  independence  of  the  Church  under 
Christ,  her  only  Head. 

It  is  strange  to  look  back  and  see  how,  at  every  step  of  our 
Church's  former  history,  the  same  conflict  has  been  going  on 
from  age  to  age. 

At  the  Reformation,  John  Knox,  with  characteristic  firmness, 
claimed  for  the  Church  entire  independence  in  her  spiritual 
functions.  In  1567,  he  obtained  from  Parliament  the  formal 
sanction  of  this  claim ;  and,  subsequently,  one  great  object  of 
his  life  was  to  guard  it  from  the  insidious  efforts  of  a  hostile 
party  in  the  Court. 

Then  came  the  reigns  of  King  James  and  his  son,  Charles  I., 
presenting  to  the  historian  one  long  conflict  between  the  Church 
and  the  State — the  King  asserting  his  supremacy,  and  the 
Church  standing  out  for  her  spiritual  independence. 

With  the  Second  Reformation  in  1638,  and  the  swearing  of 
the  Covenant,  it  might  well  have  seemed  as  if  Scotland's  Church 


G16  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

had  achieved  hex  deliverance ;  but  the  Restoration  of  1660  soon 
saw  her  plunged  deeper  than  ever  into  the  sufferings  of  persecu- 
tion, amidst  which  the  civil  and  religious  liberties  of  the  country 
were  alike  overthrown. 

Still  the  banner  was  upheld  for  Christ's  Crown  and  Covenant. 
On  the  scaffold  and  in  the  dungeon  men  gave  their  testimony, 
and  sealed  it  with  their  blood. 

Then  came  the  Eevolution  of  1688,  brinoing  the  blessings  of 
civil  libertj^  and  the  Church  fondly  believed — though  there 
were  misgivings — that  her  spiritual  freedom  was  also  secured  on 
the  Scriptural  footing  on  which  Knox  and  Melville  and  Hender- 
son had  placed  it. 

The  century  which  followed  was  a  time  of  spiritual  declension, 
laxity,  and  deadness.  A  new  enemy — Moderatism — rose  within 
the  Church,  and  the  Seceders  were  driven  out.  But,  while 
religious  life  was  decaying,  all  through  those  years  there  was  a 
noble  band  of  faithful  men  who,  in  the  face  of  adverse  majorities, 
upheld  the  cause  of  spiritual  freedom  and  evangelical  truth  in 
the  Church — the  Bostons,  and  Witherspoons,  and  Erskines,  on 
to  the  time  of  Sir  Henry  Moncreiff,  and  Andrew  Thomson,  and 
Thomas  Chalmers. 

How  the  Ten  Years'  Conflict  arose  and  ended  we  have  seen 
already  in  these  Annals.*  The  Church  was  seeking  to  give  the 
people  their  due  place  and  to  advance  the  cause  of  evangelical 
religion,  when  she  was  assailed  in  the  Civil  Courts.  We  have 
seen  how,  step  by  step,  the  secular  judges  encroached  on  her 
spiritual  functions,  casting  out  ministers  whom  the  Church  had 
ordained,  reponing  to  office  those  whom  she  had  deposed,  and 
claiming  the  right  to  prohibit  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel  in 
particular  districts  of  the  land.  It  was  plain  that  if  these  thingg 
were  submitted  to,  the  Church's  claim  to  spiritual  freedom  and 
independence  was  gone — that  great  principle  for  which  our 
fathers  shed  their  blood  was  overthrown. 

In  these  circumstances,  the  Free  Church  made  her  choice. 
The  sacred  functions  with  which  the  Church  was  invested  by 
Christ  she  could  surrender  to  no  earthly  king  or  civil  court. 
The  claim  to   spiritual   independence  must  be  vindicated  on 

*  See  ante,  p.  26,  et  seq. 


THE  church's  testimony  FOR  CHRIST'S  HEADSHIP.       617 

behalf  of  the  Christian  j)eople,  and  for  such  a  cause  she  was 
content  to  suffer  the  loss  of  all  things. 

Now,  in  following  this  course,  it  was  her  privilege  not  only 
to  bear  witness  to  a  truth  of  vital  importance  as  touching  the 
honour  due  to  Christ,  but  the  peculiar  circumstances  in  which 
she  was  placed  enabled  her  to  give  it  special  prominence,  bring- 
ing it  out  into  public  view  in  such  a  way  that  the  attention  of 
the  whole  country,  and  of  many  in  other  lands,  was  fixed  on  it. 

At  once,  by  general  consent,  it  was  felt  that  she  was  fighting 
the  old  battle  of  Reformation  and  Covenanting  times.  Dr. 
James  Hamilton,  of  London,  has  well  said  that  some  who 
garnish  the  sepulchres  of  the  Covenanters  and  build  the  tombs 
of  the  Puritans  may  grudge  a  stone  to  this  modern  cairn.  "  But 
when  we  consider  that  this  Disruption  of  the  Northern  Estab- 
lishment is  the  resuscitation  of  the  National  Church — the 
revival  of  the  Kirk  in  the  energy  of  its  first  Reformation,  in  the 
purity  of  its  second  Reformation,  and  in  the  catholicity  of  this, 
its  third  Reformation,  we  almost  forget  the  privations  with 
which  it  has  been  purchased."* 

In  a  different  tone.  Dr.  Norman  M'Leod  confesses  "  the  Free 
Kirk  are  the  descendants  of  the  Covenanters,"  and  the  Quarterly 
i?e view  is  still  more  explicit: — The  Free  Church  is  "the  hard- 
favoured  but  manifestly  legitimate  descendant  of  Knox,  and 
Melville,  and  Cameron,  and  Cargill.  .  .  .  The  spirit  which 
animated  those  men  is  ...  at  this  moment  a  living  reality, 
though  softened  and  attempered  by  the  powerful  influence  of 
time  to  the  age  in  which  we  live,  yet  still  retaining  some  of  the 
narrowness  and  some  of  the  sternness, — with,  as  we  believe, 
all  the  courage  and  all  the  fervour, — of  its  earlier  and  more 
renowned  existence."  i* 

In  Scotland  itself  the  humbler  classes  of  society — the  working 
men — entered  with  keen  sympathy  into  these  memories  of  the 
past,  and  strange  incidents  sometimes  served  to  show  how 
readily  their  thoughts  went  back  to  Covenanting  times.  In 
January,  1840,  for  example,  a  Non-Intrusion  Meeting  was  held 
in  Dumfries,  when  Drs.   Elder,  Begg,  and  Guthrie  spoke  in 

*  Farewell  to  Egypt. 
t  Quarterly  Review,  vol.  Ixxvii.,  p.  222,  December,  1845. 


618  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

the  midst  of  much  interruption  raised  by  a  body  of  Chartists. 
At  the  close  of  their  addresses'  one  of  the  leading  Chartists  of  the 
town  rose  to  reply,  "  in  a  very  offensive  way,"  says  Dr.  Elder,* 
"  bordering  on  profanity.  Dr.  Guthrie  whispered  to  us,  '  We 
are  in  a  scraj)e  with  this  fellow,  and  must  watch  our  opportunity 
to  get  out  of  it.'  So  after  a  few  minutes  the  man  came  out 
with  a  sort  of  profane  and  obscene  allusion  to  Scripture,  when 
Dr.  Guthrie,  starting  from  his  seat  and  raising  himself  to  his 
full  height,  lifted  his  long  arm  above  his  head  and  exclaimed  in 
a  voice  of  thimder,  '  Shocking !  shocking  !  I  call  on  all  Christian 
men  and  women  to  leave  this  meeting ;'  and  as  he  strode  out 
of  the  church  he  was  followed  by  the  chairman  and  the  greater 
part  of  the  audience."  The  Chartists  then  attempted  to  put  their 
leader  into  the  chair,  but  at  that  point  there  rose  from  a  seat 
close  to  the  pulpit  a  woman  belonging  to  the  humbler  ranks  of  life 
— Mrs.  Ewart,  the  wife  of  a  working  mason — "a  second  edition," 
says  a  local  paper,  "  of  Jenny  Geddes,  not  flourishing  her  stool, 
but  collaring ""  the  proposed  chairman,  calling  out,  in  no  gentle 
terms,  ''Comedoon — come  doon;"  and  suiting  the  action  to 
the  word  she  summarily  effected  her  purpose.  She  is  described 
as  "a  powerful  and  vigorous  matron,"  and  how  completely 
public  feeling  was  in  her  favour  was  seen  from  the  applause 
with  which  she  was  greeted  on  the  spot — the  allusions  at  once 
made  to  Jenny  Geddes,  and  from  a  testimonial  afterwards 
presented  "in  approbation  of  her  spirited  and  praiseworthy 
act."  Such  incidents  may  serve  to  show  how  readily  in  the 
minds  of  the  Scottish  people  the  events  of  the  present  link 
themselves  on  to  the  memories  of  the  past. 

But  there  were  scenes  of  a  different  kind  in  which  these 
memories  were  more  fittingly  recalled.  The  opening  of  the 
Free  Church  at  Glenkens — 21st  September,  1845 — was  very 
memorable.  Dr.  N.  Paterson,  Glasgow,  preached,  and  was 
followed  by  his  brother,  the  Rev.  W.  Paterson,  Kirkurd,  and 
Dr.  Landsborough,  of  Stevenston,  all  natives  of  the  parish. 
There  was  an  immense  gathering  of  the  people,  and  during 
he  services  of  the  day  reference  was  made  to  the  time  when 
"  the    Glenkens   gave   her  testimony   for  Christ's  Crown  and 

*  Memoir  of  Dr.  Guthrie,  ii.  p.  26. 


THE  church's  testimony  FOR  CHRIST'S  HEADSHIP.       619 

Covenant  by  acts  which  live  in  the  annals  of  the  country. 
Her  M'Adams  and  M'Millans,  her  Semples,  and  Cannons,  and 
Gordons,  maintained  the  hated  doctrines  for  which  we  have 
been  exposed  to  trial,  by  the  forfeiture  of  their  goods  and  by 
the  shedding  of  their  blood."  * 

Such  appeals  and  reminiscences  were  all  the  more  effective  in 
a  district  where  not  a  few  of  the  inhabitants  were,  actually  the 
descendants — the  blood  relations — of  those  who  suffered  in 
Covenanting  times.  In  the  parish  of  Glencairn,  for  example — 
not  far  from  Glenkens — there  lived,  up  to  the  middle  of  the 
Ten  Years'  Conflict,  as  occupant  of  a  small  farm,  a  Mr.  Thomas 
Tod,  whose  father  was  baptised  by  Kenwick.  He  died  in  1839, 
in  his  ninety-third  year.  It  was  no  wonder  that  in  the  districts 
where  such  ties  with  former  times  were  found,  men  cherished 
the  memories  of  the  martyrs,  and  the  movement  of  1843  found 
such  ready  sympathy.  Mr.  Tod's  family  became  zealous 
members  of  the  Free  Church.-f- 

At  Larbert,  Dr.  John  Bonar.  in  preparing  his  people  for  the 
Disruption,  "preached  at  Torwood  in  commemoration  of  Cargill's 
excommunicating  the  king  and  his  unscrupulous  agents,  and  he 
found  ground  for  great  comfort  and  encouragement  as  regards 
the  temper  and  the  convictions  of  the  people.  The  service 
referred  to  was  held  on  a  Sabbath  evening  on  the  very  spot  on 
which,  according  to  tradition,  the  sentence  was  pronounced.  The 
congregation  assembled  numbered  several  thousands,  gathered 
from  the  whole  surrounding  neighbourhood.  Dr.  Bonar's  text 
was,  ' We  ought  to  ohey  God  rather  than  man'  and  the  sermon 
was  in  his  freest  and  happiest  style,  embodying,  as  his  wont  was, 
with  clear  and  express  reference  to  current  events  and  present 
duties,  plain  and  full  announcements  of  Gospel  truth.  The 
impression  produced  was  very  deep  and  very  manifest,  and  to 
the  present  writer  it  appears  that,  looking  back  over  the  events 
which  have  intervened  between  that  Sabbath  evening  and  this 
present  time,  the  battle  of  the  Disruption  for  the  Larbert 
district  was  won  by  the  sermon  then  preached."  | 

*  Witness  newspaper,  1845,  1st  October. 

t  Statement  by  the  Rev.  D.  Landsborough,  of  Kilmarnock. 

1  Disr.  Mss.,  Ixiv. 


620  AI^NALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

Thus  all  over- Scotland  the  outgoing  ministers  found  zealous 
support.  "We  were  followed,"  says  Dr.  Guthrie,  "by  a  host  of 
our  countrymen  whose  enthusiasm  had  been  kindled  at  the 
ashes  of  the  martyrs,  and  who  saw  in  our  movement  but  another 
phase  of  the  grand  old  days  that  won  Scotland  her  fame  and 
made  her  a  name  and  a  praise  in  the  whole  earth."  * 

But,  while  such  were  the  feelings  of  the  Scottish  people,  the 
principles  of  the  Free  Church  spread  far  beyond  Scotland.  All 
over  Christendom,  her  testimony  for  the  spiritual  independence 
and  freedom  of  the  Church  of  Christ  arrested  attention  and  met 
with  the  most  cordial  response,  the  leading  men  of  almost  all 
Evangelical  Churches  coming  eagerly  forward  to  express  their 
concurrence  and  their  sense  of  the  vital  importance  of  the  truths 
contended  for. 

Thus  Dr.  Angell  James,  of  Birmingham,  warmly  responds  to 
the  Free  Church  sentiments,  speaking  as  one  of  the  great 
leaders  of  English  Nonconformity  :  — "  I  have  been  much  im- 
pressed by  the  felicity  of  a  phrase  adopted  as  the  watchword  by 
the  champions  who  have  lately  achieved  their  spiritual  freedom 
in  Scotland  —  I  mean  the  '  Grown  Rights  of  the  Redeemer.^ 
It  has  floated  on  their  banners,  sounded  from  their  lips,  run 
along  their  Ihies,  and  done  much  to  inspire  their  courage  in 
fighting  the  battles  of  their  Lord.  They  contended  for  Christ 
as  the  only  Spiritual  Head  of  the  Church,  and  this  was  their  war- 
cry — '  The  Crown  Eights  of  the  Kedeemer.'  That  name  was 
more  potent  than  those  of  Wallace  or  of  Bruce  to  their  ancestors 
when  fighting  for  their  country,  and  that  theme  had  more 
charms  than  even  the  precious,  spirit-stirring  note  of  civil  and 
religious  liberty.  The  success  of  their  conflict  was  owing,  in 
no  small  measure,  to  this  glorious  phrase.  It  was  their  zeal  for 
Christ  that  was  appealed  to ;  it  was  this  sacred  and  mighty 
sentiment  which  penetrated  into  their  glens,  echoed  from  their 
mountain-sides,  and,  floating  over  their  border  plains,  roused 
all  their  piety  as  Christians  as  well  as  their  energies  as  men, 
and  brought  out  such  a  confederated  sacramental  host  to  the 
help  of  the  Lord  against  the  mighty."  f 

*  Life,  vol.  ii.  p.  60. 

t  Free  Church  Magazine,  i.  331. 


THE  church's  testimony  FOR  CHRIST'S  HEADSHIP.        621 

At  the  Glasgow  Assembly  of  1843,  the  Kev.  Mr.  Edwards, 
Professor  of  Divinity,  appeared  as  deputy  from  the  Welsh 
Calvinistic  Methodists.  "  They  had  heard,"  he  said,  "  that  Christ 
was  afflicted  in  Scotland  [suffering  in  His  members],  and  they 
sent  him  to  visit  them.  He  had  come  to  see  the  bush  that 
burned  in  the  northern  part  of  the  island,  and  yet  was  not  con- 
sumed. And  he  had  seen  it — he  saw  it  now  before  him."  In 
Wales,  they  heard  that  the  Free  Church  was  reviled  and  perse- 
cuted as  their  own  fathers  in  Wales  were,  and  therefore  they 
.sympathised  with  them.  One  thing  he  wished  to  notice.  All 
the  landed  proprietors  in  the  neighbourhood  from  which  he 
came  were,  at  the  commencement  of  the  Calvinistic  Methodist 
movement,  persecutors  except  one.  Now,  he  would  only  men- 
tion the  fact,  without  attempting  to  explain  it,  that  the  name  of 
all  those  persecutors  had  perished  from  the  face  of  the  earth,  and 
their  whole  property  had  passed  into  the  hands  of  those  descended 
from  the  one  who  was  favourable  to  them.  The  answer  which 
Christ  gave  to  his  enemies  was  sufficient  for  us  also  :  My 
Kingdom  is  not  of  this  world.  This  the  Free  Church  had 
said — not  by  words,  but  by  deeds.  "  They  had  taken  the  field  in 
the  great  controversy  between  the  Lamb  of  God  and  the  Man 
of  sin ;  but  truth  is  great  and  will  prevail."* 

Page  after  page  of  such  testimonies  might  be  given,  if  need- 
ful, to  almost  any  extent.  We  invite  special  attention,  however, 
to  the  statement  of  one  well  able  to  look  below  the  surface  and 
estimate,  as  few  in  Christendom  could  do,  the  bearing  of  the 
Free  Church  testimony  and  its  importance  in  the  cause  of  true 
religion.  Writing  in  the  Princeton  Review,  Dr.  Hodge  says : — 
"The  truths  which  the  Free  Church  is  now  holding  up  to  the 
world,  and  for  which  she  is  bearing  testimony  by  suffering,  are 
truths  essential  to  the  vigour  of  spiritual  life  in  the  Church 
and  its  members.  They  are  truths  which  we  all  admit,  but 
which  we  have  let  slip.  We  have  not  felt  as  we  ought,  that 
Jesus  Christ  is  our  Lord.  ,  .  .  We  must  live  by  faith,  not 
only  in  His  atonement  and  intercession,  but  also  in  His  autho- 
rity and  protection.  He  is  our  Master,  and  we  must  have  no 
other.  Feeling,  personally,  our  shortcomings  in  this  matter,  we 
*  Blue  Book,  Glas.  Ass.  pp.  95,  96. 


622  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

have  thought  it  miglit  be  useful  to  call  the  attention  of  our 
readers  to  the  truths  which  this  Scottish  movement  has  brouglit 
so  prominently  to  view.  ,  .  .  With  such  principles  at 
work,  and  with  such  men  engaged  in  her  service,  we  have  no 
doubt  of  the  success  of  the  Free  Church.  Her  cause  is  the 
cause  of  Christ,  and  must  succeed."* 

When  Dr.  Cunningham  visited  America,  he  met  with  "  one  of 
the  most  eminent  men  in  the  States — a  man  of  European 
reputation  " — who  said  that  he  could  tell,  in  a  single  sentence, 
what  he  thought  of  the  Free  Church  movement: — "My  opinion 
is  this.  It  is  the  greatest  event  that  has  taken  place  in  the 
Church  of  Christ  since  the  Reformation  in  Germany,  and  the 
reason  is  just  this — it  has  brought  out  more  fully  and  more 
impressively,  and  in  a  way  more  fitted  to  attract  notice  and 
command  the  respect  of  men  than  any  other  event,  the  great 
fundamental  principles  of  the  supremacy  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  and  the  truth  of  the  revealed  Word  of  God."-f- 

The  impressions  thus  made  on  the  Christians  of  other  lands 
were  surely  enough  to  show  that  the  Ten  Years'  Conflict  and 
the  sacrifice  of  1843  had  not  been  in  vain.  The  spectacle  was 
that  of  a  Church  signalising  her  loyalty  to  Christ  and  appealing 
to  Christendom  on  behalf  of  the  great  principle  of  spiritual  inde- 
pendence and  the  freedom  of  the  Christian  people.  Whatever  her 
after  history  might  be,  this  much  was  secured  at  the  outset — 
she  had  borne  witness  for  Christ  as  the  only  Authority  and  Head 
of  the  Church  in  things  spiritual,  and  it  was  a  service  to  the 
cause  of  religious  truth  which  had  made  itself  widely  felt  both 
at  home  and  abroad. 

*  Blue  Book,  1844,  pp.  70,  71.  +  Ibid.,  1844,  p.  69. 


THE  CALL  TO  WOKE,  623 


XLVIII.  The  Call  to  Work. 

It  was  a  great  thing  for  the  Church  to  have  lifted  up  such  a 
testimony ;  but  it  was,  at  the  same  time,  all-important  that  no 
wrong  use  should  be  made  of  what  had  been  done.  If  the 
Free  Church,  for  example,  had  attempted  to  live  on  the  past, 
and  fight  over  again  for  ever  the  old  battles  of  the  Disruption, 
the  greatest  injury  would  have  been  done  both  to  herself  and 
to  the  grand  truths  for  which  she  had  contended.  Better  than 
these  vain  contentions — better  far  than  all  other  arguments — 
would  be  the  spectacle  of  ministers  and  elders  throwing  them- 
selves with  energy  into  their  own  proper  work,  and  manifesting 
the  presence  of  Christ  Himself  in  the  Free  Church  as  her  living 
Head — the  source  of  that  spiritual  power  which  she  was  enabled 
to  put  forth ;  most  earnestly  was  she  urged  to  make  this  the 
great  object  of  her  eflforts  and  her  prayers. 

"  Who  cares  about  the  Free  Church,"  Dr.  Chalmers  ex- 
claimed, in  one  of  those  emphatic  utterances  in  which 
he  delighted,  "  compared  with  the  Christian  good  of  the 
people  of  Scotland !  Who  cares  about  any  Church,  but  as 
an  instrument  of  Christian  good ;  for,  be  assured,  the  moral 
and  religious  well-being  of  the  population  is  of  infinitely  higher 
importance  than  the  advancement  of  any  sect."*  Not  that  he 
did  not  care  for  the  Free  Church,  for  indeed  it  was  on  behalf 
of  her  principles  he  had  given  up  his  position  and  his  income ; 
but  his  thoughts  for  the  moment  Avere  preoccupied  with  the 
evangelisation  of  the  masses,  and  he  would  fain  save  his  Church 
from  sectarian  narrowness,  f 

*  Memoirs,  iv.  p.  394. 
+  Within  three  weeks  of  his  death,  his  testimony  on  behalf  of  the  Free 


624  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

Jt  would,  indeed,  have  been  a  miserable  result  if  the  doctrine 
of  Christ's  headship,  which  the  Church  had  defended  at  such 
cost,  had  been  taken  apart  from  its  practical  influences  and  set 
up  as  the  mere  shibboleth  of  a  sect — a  form  of  words  from 
which  the  life  and  the  power  had  departed.  During  the  Ten 
Years'  Conflict,  men  were  forced  to  feel  the  value  of  the  truths  for 
which  they  were  contending.  With  the  sacrifices  of  the  Dis- 
ruption in  view,  they  were  thrown  back  on  the  great  realities  of 
faith  and  hope,  seeking  that  Christ  their  Master  might  be  with 
them  in  the  day  of  trial.  But  in  after  times,  when  the  struggle 
was  over,  the  danger  was  that  the  truth  might  be  retained  as 
the  mere  badge  of  a  Church  denomination,  while  its  vital  influ- 
ence might  have  gone.  It  was  to  guard  against  such  defections 
that  the  warnings  of  Dr.  Chalmers  and  others  were  directed. 
We  had  better  work  to  do  than  to  be  for  ever  assailing  the 
Establishment  which  we  had  left,  and  exposing  the  Erastian 
encroachments  of  the  State.  The  proper  attitude  of  the  Free 
Church,  while  ready  to  defend  on  all  proper  occasions  her  own 
position,  would  be  to  cultivate  close  communion  with  Christ 
her  living  Head ;  and  as  God  had  done  great  things  for  us  to 
make  it  our  desire  and  prayer  that  we  might  be  enabled  to  do 
some  service  in  advancing  His  cause  on  earth. 

These  were  the  sentiments  which  leading  ministers  and  lay- 
men were  on  all  occasions  eager  to  express. 

"  I  have  an  earnest  desire,"  said  Mr.  Sym,  of  Greyfriars, 
Edinburgh,  in  the  General  Assembly,  "  that  the  Church  which 
has  been  so  eminent  in  fighting  the  battles  of  the  faith  should 
be  no  less  distinguished  in  the  way  of  doing  good.  You  see  a 
Divinity  in  the  bush  that  burned  and  was  not  consumed ;  but 
is  the  Church  in  reality  less  Divine,  or  is  her  vocation  less 
lofty,  when  scattering  the  Gospel  blessings  of  holiness,  peace, 
and  everlasting  life  among  the  destitute  around  them ;  making 
the  wilderness  to  be  glad,  and  the  solitary  place  to  rejoice  and 
blossom  as  the  rose."  * 

In  responding  to  this  statement,  Dr.  Candlish  maintained 

Church  was  given  in  the  strongest  terms  before  the  Committee  of  the 
House  of  Commons  on  Sites. 
■*  Blue  Book,  1852,  p.  228. 


THE  CALL  TO  WORK.  625 

that  we  were  to  prove  our  identity  with  the  Church  of  Scot- 
hxncl  from  the  beginning,  not  merely  by  historical  evidence,  but 
by  the  palpable  evidence  of  present  exertion.  "I  would 
despair  for  my  Church,  if  we  were  to  lie  upon  our  oars, 
resting  on  tlie  mere  evidence  which  historical  documents, 
or  transactions  founded  on  historical  documents,  may  afford. 
If  we  have  nothing  more  to  show  in  proof  of  'our  being 
in  very  deed  and  truth  the  Church  whicli  from  the 
beginning  conferred  essential  blessings  on  Scotland,  I  should 
be  ashamed  of  our  Church — I  should  despair  of  our  having 
God's  blessing  on  any  steps  we  took  ...  if  we  were  to  rely  on 
such  evidence,  solely  to  prove  our  identity  with  the  Church  of 
Scotland  from  the  beginning.  No,  sir,  it  is  not  by  raking  up 
musty  documents ;  it  is  not  by  going  back  to  old  testimonies 
.  .  .  that  we  are  to  establish  really  our  claim  to  be  the  living 
representatives  of  our  forefathers  ;  but  by  showing  that  we 
have  the  life  in  us — that  we  are  alive  to  the  exigencies  of 
the  times  in  which  our  lot  is  cast,  and  that  we  are  prepared  to 
take  the  full  responsibility  of  the  Church  of  Scotland  in  refer- 
ence to  dealing  with  the  spiritual  wants  of  our  countrymen 
everywhere."  * 

And  not  less  emphatic  were  the  testimonies  of  our  laymen, 
one  of  the  ablest  and  most  devoted  of  whom — Eobert  Paul,  Esq., 
banker — declared : — 

"  Much  as  I  love  the  Free  Church — much  as  I  am  interested 
in  all  her  doings — strongly  attached  as  I  feel  to  her  principles, 
and  greatly  as  I  will  ever  rejoice  in  the  testimony  to  vital  and 
Scriptural  truths  which  she  has  been  honoured  and  enabled  to 
bear,  I  look  on  all  this  as  comparatively  nothing,  unless  our 
Church  sliall  be  made  a  great  instrument  for  maintaining  and 
extending  the  cause  of  sound  religion  and  vital  godliness  in  the 
land."t 

With  these  views  the  Free  Church  was  urged  from  the  first 
to  go  forth  to  the  work  set  before  her  by  God,  not  merely  con- 
tendhig  for  the  truth,  not  merely  relying  on  testimonies,  but 
ready  to  labour  in  the  vineyard  and  bear  the  burden  and  heat  of 
the  day.      It  would   be   impossible    for   her   to  flourish  out- 

*  Blue  Book,  p.  231.  t  Ibid,  1850,  p.  274. 

2S 


626  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

wardly,  if  her  inner  spiritual  life  should  decay.  Her  one  grand 
object  must  be  to  preach  the  Gospel  of  the  grace  of  God; 
faithfully  to  bear  witness  for  the  truth  as  it  is  in  Jesus, 
and  to  save  immortal  souls.  If  such  efforts  were  crowned 
with  success  she  might  well  leave  her  cause  in  the  hands  of 
God. 


THE  GENERAL  ASSEMBLY  OF  1844.  627 


XLIX.  The  General  Assembly  of  1844. 

During  the  spring  of  1844  the  meeting  of  the  General  Assembly 
was  looked  forward  to  with  eager  anticipation.  Among  the 
people  there  had  been  unwonted  manifestations  of  religious 
earnestness,  while  among  the  ministers  there  had  arisen  a 
corresponding  sense  of  responsibility,  and  a  fear  lest  any  back- 
wardness or  unfaithfulness  on  their  part  should  mar  the  prospects 
of  success.  As  the  months  went  on  this  feeling  deepened, 
and  when  the  various  Synods  met  at  the  usual  time,  there 
was  a  general  movement  to  send  forward  overtures  asking 
the  Assembly  to  take  up  specially  the  work  of  personal 
religion,  and  to  make  the  consideration  of  it  the  great 
outstanding  feature  of  their  proceedings. 

Most  cordially  were  these  overtures  responded  to.  Hardly 
had  the  Assembly  met  when  Dr.  Candlish,  at  one  of  its  earliest 
diets,  referred  to  the  urgent  need  there  was  of  something  being 
done.  "All  of  them,"  he  observed,  "had  found  the  people 
waiting  on  their  ministrations  with  a  seriousness,  attention, 
and  devotion,  such  as  they  never  before  observed,  the  young 
more  open  to  instruction,  the  aged  more  anxious  for  consolation, 
the  careless  more  ready  to  be  awakened,  the  worldly  more 
ready  to  be  rebuked,  the  people  of  God  expecting  large  advances 
in  the  Divine  life.  They  had  been  meeting  with  congregations, 
all  of  whom  laboured  under  the  impression  that  something 
ought  to  come  out  of  this  great  work  of  God ;  and,  oh !  it  is  a 
solemn  question  for  each  of  us  to  ask,  '  How  much  of  all  this  has 
been  counteracted  by  my  unfaithfulness,  by  my  want  of  an 
adequate  sense  of  the  importance  of  this  most  important  event.' " 
In  view  of  such  considerations  it  was  agreed  that  Tuesday,  the 
iilst  of  May, should  be  set  apart  as  a  day  of  humiliation  and  prayer 


628  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

— the  sermon  to  be  preached,  and  the  opening  religious  services 
conducted,  by  the  Eev.  Charles  Brown  of  Edinburgh,  after  which 
the  members  of  Assembly  should  engage  in  religious  conference. 
"  I  shall  deeply  regret,"  Dr.  Candlish  added,  "  if  we  enter  into 
any  consultation  as  to  what  ought  to  be  done  before  we  have 
thoroughly  and  truly  humbled  ourselves  in  the  sight  of  God, 
and  spread  out  before  Him  our  sins  and  failings." 

AmOng  the  cherished  memories  of  those  early  years  which 
men  love  to  recall,  none,  it  is  believed,  have  left  a  deeper 
impression  than  the  proceedings  of  that  21st  day  of  May.  The 
object  of  the  meeting,  as  Dr.  Brown  stated,  was  "not  so  much 
to  speak  to  one  another  as  to  speak  to  the  Lord  our  God,  and 
pour  out  our  hearts  before  Him  in  sorrowful  confession  of  our 
many,  many  shortcomings  and  sins,  in  order  that,  betaking 
ourselves  to  the  fountain  of  Immanuel's  blood,  and  taking  hold 
of  the  strength  of  the  good  and  holy  Spirit  of  Christ,  we  may 
humbly  and  heartily  offer  ourselves  to  the  Lord,  that  if  He  have 
any  delight  in  us,  and  if  we  have  found  grace  in  His  sight,  it 
may  please  Him  in  infinite  mercy  to  tnake  some  use  of  us  as 
His  instruments  in  the  great  work  on  which  His  heart  is  set, 
and  for  which  the  Son  of  God  died." 

Very  memorable  was  the  sermon  which  these  words  served 
to  introduce.  Taking  as  his  text  Habakkuk  ii.  1,  the  preacher 
began  by  "assuming  that  the  ministers  and  elders  in  that 
Assembly  were  Christians,  although  the  Lord  is  witness  that 
I  assuuie  it  not  as  thinking  it  a  matter  of  course — in  reference 
to  myself  at  least.  It  were  a  very  salutary  thing  this  day,  be 
our  state  and  character  before  God  what  it  may,  if  we  were 
bearing  solemnly  in  mind  that  a  man  may  preach  the  Gospel  to 
others  and  be  himself  a  castaway.  Oh,  it  were  well  if  we  this 
day  heard  the  great  and  gracious  One  addressing  to  each  of  us 
the  inquiry,  '  Lovest  thou  Me  ? '  Blessed  if  we  are  able  in 
humble  hope  to  answer,  '  Lord,  Thou  knowest  all  things,  Thou 
knowest  that  I  love  Thee  ! ' " 

Starting  from  this  point,  he  proceeded  to  lay  open  the  low 
state  of  our  souls  as  Christians,  the  low  state  of  religion  in  our 
own  hearts.  We  might  have  been  awakened  recently,  and 
made  some  happy  progress,  and  this  very  fact  that  we  were 


THE  GENERAL  ASSEMBLY  OF  1S44.  629 

not  quite  so  far  off  as  before  might  just  be  the  secret  of  our 
now  seeing  more  distinctly  our  sad  distance  from  the  mark  of 
what  Scripture  requires. 

This  it  was  which  weakened  their  whole  ministry.  "  How  is 
a  minister  to  teach  to  others  the  ways  of  God  unless  he  is 
walking  close  and  straight  in  them  himself?  How  shall  he  lay 
open  the  sins  of  others,  not  harshly  but  tenderly,  unless  he  is 
seeing  and  mourning  in  secret  over  his  own.  The  Word  of 
God  is  the  weapon  we  must  wield,  but  the  only  way  to  get  to 
the  very  heart  of  the  Word  is  nothing  else  than  our  living  on 
it  ourselves  in  secret.  What  guilt  lies  on  us  in  this  matter. 
We  who  ought  to  have  been  ensamples  to  the  flock,  who  have 
had  so  many  and  peculiar  advantages  for  walking  with  God, 
alas,  our  distance  from  Him  has  all  but  paralysed  our  ministry 
We  have  not  dwelt  in  the  secret  place  of  the  Most  High.  His 
Word  has  not  dwelt  richly  in  us.  What  mischief  have  we 
thus  done  to  souls — what  good  have  we  failed  to  do — what 
endless  opportunities  have  we  lost !  '  Have  mercy  on  us,  0 
God ! ' " 

Such  statements,  however,  were  not  left  in  their  vague 
generality.  After  striking  this  key-note,  Dr.  Brown  followed 
out  eight  separate  lines  of  thought,  laying  open  various  short- 
comings and  sins,  and  searching  with  keen  analysis  the  secrecies 
of  the  heart,  as  well  as  the  course  of  life  and  work  in  the 
ministry  of  the  Gospel.  If  it  was  unsparingly  done,  there  was 
yet  the  faithful  tenderness  and  pathos  of  one  who  was  feeling 
all  the  time  his  own  full  share  of  what  he  was  addressing  to 
others ;  and  it  was  amidst  deep,  solemn  melting  of  heart  on  his 
own  part,  and  that  of  his  audience,  that  he  took  up,  in  closing, 
the  words  of  Isaiah, "  Woe  is  me,  for  I  am  undone  ;  I  am  a  man 
of  unclean  lips ; "  and  then  referred  to  the  time  when  the  live 
coal  from  off  the  altar  touched  the  lips  of  the  prophet,  and  the 
assurance  was  given,  "  Thine  iniquity  is  taken  away,  and  thy  sin 
is  purged  ; "  and  this  followed  by  the  statement,  "  I  heard  the 
voice  of  the  Lord  saying,  Whom  shall  I  send,  and  who  will  go 
for  us  ?     Then  said  I,  Here  am  I :  send  me." 

Thus  the  sermon  closed  in  the  midst  of  an  audience  of 
ministers  and  elders  who  were  universally  and  deeply  moved. 


630  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

Many   a   head  was   bowed,  and   here   and   there   amidst   the 
Assembly  men  were  silently  seeking  relief  in  tears. 

After  praise  and  prayer,  Dr.  Chalmers  rose  to  begin  the 
conference.  There  was  something  inexpressibly  touching  in 
hearing  the  greatest  preacher  of  his  day  expressing  his  earnest 
desire  that  these  searching  truths  might  sink  deep  into  our 
hearts,  so  that  with  a  sense  of  our  own  nothingness,  our  own 
helplessness,  thus  laid  before  us,  we  may  learn  henceforth  to 
keep  closer  than  heretofore  to  the  great  fountainhead  of  our 
strength.  "  Many  are  the  temptations  to  which  our  profession  is 
exposed,  and  of  which  our  lay  brethren  and  friends  have  no 
adequate  conception.  Our  very  familiarity  with  the  topics  we 
handle  is  itself  a  snare.  The  lesson  of  death  is  not  given  to  the 
hackneyed  grave-digger,  conversant  with  the  skulls  and  skeletons 
of  the  churchyard.  Neither  does  it  follow  that  because  the 
great  topics  of  salvation  are  present  to  our  minds,  they  should 
tell  practically  on  the  heart.  But  if  they  do  not  soften  us,  is 
there  no  danger  lest  they  harden  us  ?  Oh,  that  we  were  suffi- 
ciently impressed  with  the  solemnity  of  our  position,  and  were 
unceasing  in  prayer  to  heaven  for  that  unction  from  the  Holy 
One,  without  which  we  cannot  save  our  own  souls,  neither  can 
we  save  the  souls  of  others." 

Dr.  Chalmers  sat  down.  It  was  in  vain  that  the  Moderator 
invited  further  discussion.  Men's  hearts  were  full ;  the 
Assembly  remained  for  a  time  hushed  in  silence.  It  seemed  as 
if  members  were  afraid  to  disturb  the  solemnity  of  the  scene ; 
as  if  it  would  be  best  for  each  to  retire  and  enter  into 
his  closet,  and  shut  the  door  behind  him.  At  a  quarter  past 
two  o'clock  the  blessing  was  pronounced,  and  men  went  to 
their  homes. 

That  same  evening  a  second  conference  was  held,  and  again 
on  one  of  the  subsequent  days  the  subject  was  resumed — the 
most  honoured  ministers  and  elders  taking  part,  and  deepening 
the  impression.  Many  a  powerful  word  was  spoken.  An  aged 
minister,  for  example — Dr.  Laird,  of  Portoioak — described  him- 
self as  standing  between  the  living  and  the  dead.  After  a 
ministry  of  nearly  fifty  years,  he  could  look  back  with  regret  on 
much  loss  of  time  and  misapjjlication  of  talent.     There  were 


THE  GENERAL  ASSEMBLY  OF  1844.  631 

many  in  that  Assembly  in  the  full  vigour  of  health  and  strength 
(three  of  his  sons  were  ministers,  and  along  with  their  father  in 
1843  cast  in  their  lot  with  the  Free  Church),  and  before 
descending  into  the  vale  of  years  he  would  urge  them  on  to  the 
right  discharge  of  their  duty,  assuring  them  that  if  they  wrought 
with  all  their  heart  the  blessing  of  God  would  descend  on  their 
labours. 

Dr.  Cunningham  had  just  returned  from  a  visit  to  the 
American  Churches,  and  told  how  he  found  the  ministers  there 
animated  generally  by  a  distinct  desire  and  confident  expecta- 
tion of  their  labours  being  blessed  to  the  conversion  of  sinners 
and  the  edification  of  saints.  In  the  course  of  his  ministry,  he 
regarded  it  as  one  of  the  many  sins  of  which,  in  common  with 
his  brethren,  he  had  been  guilty,  that  he  had  often  engaged  in 
ministerial  services  without  any  distinct  and  positive  and  ardent 
desire  of  such  definite  results.  In  America  it  may  have  been 
carried  too  far,  but  we  may  have  the  use  without  the 
abuse. 

As  the  Conference  went  on,  the  statements  of  Dr.  Gordon,  of 
Edinburgh ;  Dr.  Brown,  of  Glasgow  ;  Prof.  Duncan,  and  others, 
with  some  from  the  more  eminent  elders,  gave  deeper  and 
deeper  impressiveness  to  the  discussion.  But  the  general  result 
cannot  be  better  expressed  than  in  the  words  of  Dr.  Candlish. 
"One  feels — I  speak  with  all  frankness — after  what  we  have 
heard,  as  if  till  this  day  we  had  scarce  known  or  realised  our 
position  as  ministers  of  the  everlasting  Gospel,  and  the  weight 
of  our  responsibility  as  appointed  to  wield  an  instrument  of 
tremendous  efiicacy,  whether  for  weal  or  woe.  It  is  not  that  I 
wish  to  make  any  profession  of  my  own  feelings,  but  I  think  I 
am  only  giving  utterance  to  the  feelings  of  fathers  and  brethren 
in  this  Assembly  when  I  venture  to  say  that  this  night  we  are 
called  on  in  the  providence  of  God,  and  by  the  outpouring,  as  I 
trust  and  believe,  of  His  Holy  Spirit,  to  a  new  dedication  of 
ourselves,  soul  and  body  and  spirit,  to  God,  declaring  our  pur- 
pose by  His  grace  and  strength,  to  be  His  servants,  to  spend  and 
be  spent  in  His  cause.  Oh,  let  it  not  be  a  rash  resolution  flow- 
ing from  the  impulse  of  temporary  excitement.  Once  and 
again  have  these  words  burst  from  the  lips  of  God's  servants 


632  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

this  day — '  The  place  whereon  we  stand  is  holy  ground  ; '  and 
if  it  so  be,  and  if  in  any  measure  standing  on  that  holy  ground 
we  have  been  enabled  to  put  our  shoes  from  off  our  feet,  and  to 
behold  the  Angel  of  the  Covenant  in  the  bush  burning  but  not 
consumed,  may  we  not,  sir,  led  by  the  Spirit  and  constrained 
by  the  mercies  of  God,  present  ourselves  anew  to  Him,  and  say, 
■ '  Lord,  we  are  Thine ;  Thine,  for  Thou  hast  made  us ;  Thine, 
for  Thou  hast  redeemed  us ;  Thine — shall  we  say  ? — Thine 
because  Thou  hast  revived  us.  And  now.  Lord,  take  us  and 
make  us  instruments  in  Thy  hand  ;  Lord,  enable  us  to  enter  into 
Thy  mind.'"* 

These  scenes,  it  must  not  be  forgotten,  were  in  perfect  keep- 
ing with  what  had  been  going  on  for  years  before.  The  leaders 
of  the  Pree  Church  had  been  known  to  the  public  chiefly  as 
eager  combatants  on  the  field  of  controversy,  or  able  business 
men  in  building  up  the  fabric  of  the  Church  after  the  Dis- 
ruption. All  the  time,  however,  as  the  Diary  of  Dr. 
Chalmers,  for  example,  fully  shows,  these  engrossing  conflicts 
and  toils  had  been  uncongenial  work,  from  which  they  were 
glad  to  escape  and  find  relief  in  seasons  of  devout  and  earnest 
prayer. 

We  see  this  in  the  case  of  the  Eev.  Andrew  Gray  of  Perth, 
one  of  the  Church's  most  formidable  champions  on  the  field  of 
argument.  What  nerved  him  for  the  struggle  was  the  convic- 
tion that,  "  deep  at  the  foundation  of  the  Ten  Years'  Conflict 
lay  the  question  whether  godliness  in  its  living  power  and 
genuine  evangelical  development  was  to  prevail  in  the  Church." 
And  hence  the  spirit  in  which  his  work  was  done.  He  was 
extremely  solicitous  about  his  jDeople's  prayers  iu  connection 
with  the  Church's  struggles  and  his  own  part  in  them.  While 
in  Edinburgh,  attending  to  his  duties  as  member  of  Assembly, 
his  practice  was,  during  the  years  1840-44,  to  write  daily  to 
the  West  Church  prayer-meeting,  so  as  to  keep  his  people 
informed  of  the  Assembly's  proceedings,  "  thus  making  theif 
petitions  on  its  behalf  more  pointed  and  precise  than  they 
would  otherwise  have  been."  The  direct  breathings  of  his  soul 
come  out  in  these  letters  in  connection  with  each  step  that  was 

*  Blue  Book,  1844,  p.  92. 


THE  GENERAL  ASSEMBLY  OF  1844.  633 

taken  in  the  progress  of  the  conflict.  He  frequently  also 
acknowledges,  in  warm  terms,  the  assurances  which  he  receives 
of  these  prayer-meetings  being  numerously  attended  and  per- 
vaded by  a  spirit  of  deep  earnestness  and  seriousness."* 

Another  similar  testimony,  by  Dr.  Elder  of  Kothesay — 
at  the  time,  of  St.  Paul's,  Edinburgh — gives  us  an  interesting 
glimpse  into  the  private  intercourse  of  those  who  stood  in  the 
high  places  of  the  field  : — "  I  cherish  a  warm  and  grateful  recol- 
lection of  a  monthly  conference  held  in  each  other's  houses  by 
some  twelve  or  fourteen  brethren  of  the  Edinburgh  Presbytery 
at  that  time,  and  on  to  the  Disruption,  at  which,  along  with 
earnest  waiting  on  the  Lord  for  light  and  guidance,  all  the 
various  aspects  of  the  Church  question  were  discussed  in  a 
spirit  of  brotherly  love  and  confidence.  .  .  .  We  could  not 
but  regard  it  as  a  token  for  good,  that  the  prayerful  spirit 
seemed  to  increase  as  the  time  approached.  I  remember  well 
how  manifest  this  was  in  the  case  of  our  honoured  leader. 
Dr.  Chalmers,  and  of  other  prominent  men,  clerical  and  lay, 
who  were  chiefly  called  to  bear  reproach  for  the  truth's 
sake."-|- 

With  such  feelings,  men  had  come  up  to  the  Assembly  of 
1844  still  further  solemnised  and  quickened  by  the  experience  of 
the  first  year  after  the  Disruption.  Never,  probably,  did  preacher 
address  an  audience  with  hearts  more  open,  and  never  did 
preacher  enter  the  pulpit  better  fitted  than  Dr.  Charles  Brown 
to  rise  to  the  full  height  of  such  an  occasion.  The  general  impres- 
sion has  been  well  described  by  Dr.  Hetherington :  "  Seldom 
has  a  more  solemn  scene  been  beheld.  The  vast  hall  in  which 
the  Assembly  met  was  crowded  with  ministers,  elders,  and  a 
large  number  of  earnest  and  devoted  worshippers.  And  as  the 
preacher  prosecuted  his  great  work,  his  faithful  and  searching 
confessions  and  admonitions,  urged  with  all  the  impressive 
power  of  a  heart  thoroughly  in  earnest  in  his  Master's  cause, 
and  directed,  as  we  fully  believe,  to  the  hearts  of  the  assembled 
audience  by  the  Spirit  of  God,  the  whole  vast  multitude  were 
bowed  and  shaken  like  a  forest  of  trees  beneath  a  mighty  wind 

*  Memoir  of  Rev.  A.  Gray,  p.  IxiiL 
+  Disr.  Mss.  Ixxi.  pp.  2,  9. 


634  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

— were  melted  and  fused  together  like  masses  of  golden  ore  in 
a  seven-times  heated  furnace.  Never  will  the  remembrance  of 
that  day  pass  away  from  the  hearts  and  minds  of  those  who  felt 
and  enjoyed  its  humbling,  searching,  and  yet  refining  and 
elevating  power.  And  if,  as  may  be  hoped,  and  as  has  been 
earnestly  implored,  the  ministers,  elders,  and  private  Christians 
who  were  present  retain  the  impressions  then  made, and  go  forward 
to  the  discharge  of  their  respective  duties,  in  the  strength  of  the 
grace  then  felt  and  sought,  and  with  the  resolutions  then 
humbly  formed,  a  time  of  much  refreshing  from  the  presence  of 
the  Lord  may  be  hoped,  and  an  era  in  the  annals  of  religious 
revival,  and  the  progress  of  vital  and  personal  godliness,  will  be 
dated  from  that  memorable  day. 

"Nor  did  the  solemnising  and  hallowing  influence  of  that 
day  pass  away  and  lose  its  power,  among  the  many  duties  which 
the  Assembly  had  to  discharge.  In  every  stage  of  its  procedure 
that  influence  was  felt,  returning  and  hallowing  every  delibera- 
tion. Topics  from  the  discussion  of  which  some  had  almost 
shrunk,  lest  something  like  strife  or  disagreement  might  arise, 
were  brought  forward,  investigated  and  determined  with  perfect 
harmony.  And  so  strong  was  the  feeling  still  entertained  by 
all,  that  the  Assembly  prolonged  its  sitting  for  one  day  in  order 
to  receive  the  report  of  a  Committee  which  had  been  appointed 
to  take  the  subject  into  consideration,  that  something  like  a 
repetition  of  the  same  sacred  and  soul-subduing  power  might 
be  again  experienced.  They  were  not  disappointed.  And, 
especially,  when  some  of  the  elders  spoke  in  the  fulness  of 
their  hearts,  both  ministers  and  people  felt  constrained  to 
thank  God  and  take  courage,  believing  that  God  not  only 
would  return  and  re-visit  the  vine  which  His  right  hand  had 
planted,  but  that  His  presence  and  blessing  were  already 
realised." 

In  the  view  of  strangers  from  a  distance,  these  scenes  appear 
to  have  been  not  less  impressive. 

Thus  a  minister  from  Ireland  states  : — "  There  was  no  atti- 
tude in  which  his  soul  felt  more  profound  sympathy  than  on 
that  memorable  Tuesday,  when,  as  a  body,  they  bowed  down 
before  God,  and  when,  instead  of  railing  against  their  enemies, 


THE  GENERAL  ASSEMBLY  OF  1844.  635 

they  confessed,  in  deep  prostration,  the  plagues  of  their  own 
hearts  and  the  sins  of  their  own  lives,  and  in  one  universal  cry 
that  prayer  arose — '  God  be  merciful  to  us  sinners.'  We  never 
witnessed  a  scene  more  solemnly  sublime."* 

In  similar  terms  Mr.  Frederick  Monod,  of  Paris,  refers  to  one 
of  the  subsequent  meetings  : — "  I  will  have  much  to  say  when  I 
return  to  my  own  people,  of  what  I  have  seen,  heard,  and  ex- 
perienced among  you.  Oh,  how  I  wish  that  all  those  who  do 
not  understand,  or  who  do  not  approve  of  the  position  you  have 
been  compelled  to  assume,  had  been  present,  as  it  was  my 
privilege  to  be,  on  Friday  night  last.  Ah,  they  would  have  seen 
— would  have  felt,  that  the  Spirit  of  God,  the  Spirit  of  our 
great  God,  in  His  Son  Jesus  Christ,  is  with  this  Church — that 
this  is  not  the  work  of  man — that  the  whole  will  turn  out  to 
be  the  work  of  God  indeed  ;  and  nothing  can  overthrow  it. 
.  .  .  Take  courage,  my  dear  Christian  friends ;  go  on  in 
the  strength  of  the  Lord — go  on  in  faithfulness  to  yourselves 
and  charity  towards  those  who  do  not  go  along  with  you.  So 
long  as  your  Church  shall  possess  that  faith  so  warmly  expressed 
and  so  warmly  responded  to — so  long  as  you  have  that  faith, 
fear  not ;  fear  not.  Here  is  a  new  era  in  the  history  of  our 
blessed  and  glorious  Reformation."  -f- 

But,  gratifying  as  all  this  was,  those  who  guided  the  affairs 
of  the  Church  knew  well  that  the  emotions  of  such  a  time  might 
soon  pass  away.  Even  in  regard  to  things  the  most  spiritual  they 
were  practical  men  of  business,  and  the  question  was  how  best 
to  turn  to  account  these  meetings  so  as  to  make  them  a  source 
of  spiritual  life  and  power  over  the  land.  Presbyteries  were 
instructed  to  hold  similar  conferences  for  mutual  edification. 
The  bold  resolution  was  taken  that  every  congregation  of  the 
Free  Church  should  be  addressed  by  deputations  of  the  most 
earnest  and  fervent  of  the  ministers,  who  were  to  press  home 
the  offers  of  the  Gospel,  and  make  known  the  deep  desire  of  the 
Church  for  revived  spiritual  life  in  all  her  borders.  The 
next  summer,  accordingly,  was  a  time  of  religious  effort  such 
as  Scotland  has  seldom  seen  ;    and  which,  as  many  can  tell, 

*  The  Rev.  Mr.  Johnston— Blue  Book,  1845,  p.  34. 
t  Blue  Book,  1844,  p.  217. 


636  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

left  a  deep  impression  on  the  hearts  and  consciences  of  the 
people, 

A  single  specimen  may  be  given  from  the  account  of  one  of 
the  respected  fathers  of  the  Church,  to  show  how  the  work  was 
carried  on  : — :"  The  late  Dr.  Henderson  of  Glasgow  and  myself  * 
were  appointed  to  Ayrshire  and  Dumfriesshire.  Our  duty  was 
to  preach  every  week-day  evening  for  a  fortnight,  and  twice  or 
thrice  on  Sabbath.  We  commenced  on  the  21st  of  August, 
and  concluded  on  the  5th  of  September,  having  visited  between 
twenty  and  thirty  parishes.  At  Thornhill,  we  took  part  in 
laying  the  foundation  stone  of  the  Free  Church,  after  an 
eloquent  sermon  by  Dr.  Henderson  to  an  audience  of  between 
two  thousand  and  three  thousand.  At  Keir,  on  the  following 
day.  Sabbath,  I  preached  to  nearly  as  many  in  a  beautiful  glen, 
where  my  pulpit  was  a  country  cart."  In  this  way  all  Scotland 
was  pervaded  by  the  earnest  evangelistic  preaching  of  chosen 
deputies.  At  the  meeting  of  the  Commission,  in  August,  the 
subject  was  referred  to  in  an  elaborate  report.  The  approval  of 
it  was  moved  by  Dr.  Candlish  :  "  I  cannot  in  too  strong  terms 
express  my  admiration.  But  admiration  is  not  the  word  which 
such  a  report  deserves  at  our  hands.  I  trust  it  will  tend,  by 
the  blessing  of  God,  to  promote  that  spirit  of  seriousness  in  our 
several  Presbyteries  and  congregations — that  spirit  of  serious 
anxiety  regarding  the  state  of  vital  godliness  which  it  has 
pleased  God  to  call  forth  among  us." 

"  In  looking  back,"  says  Dr.  Thomson,  *'  on  the  Disruption 
period,  the  events  of  which  are  as  fresh  in  my  remembrance 
as  if  they  had  happened  but  yesterday,  I  can  truly  say 
that  it  was  a  deeply  interesting  and  solemn  season,  when  the 
Gospel  was  prized,  when  brotherly  love  abounded,  and  when 
there  was  a  manifest  revival  of  the  life  and  power  of  true 
religion.  Consciences  were  awakened,  hearts  were  stirred  to 
their  depths,  the  Holy  Spirit  was  at  work,  many  received  a 
blessing  to  their  souls  for  the  first  time,  and  others  received  a 
fresh  baptism  from  above.  The  memory  of  these  times  is  very 
pleasant  and  profitable,  cheering  and  encouraging,  and  any 
hardships  or  trials  endured  were  not  to  be  compared  with  the 

*  Eev.  J.  Thomson,  D.D.,  Paisley,  Disr.  Mss,  Ivii. 


THE  GENERAL  ASSEMBLY  OF  1844.  637 

rich  consolation  enjoyed  and  the  abundant  blessings  bestowed. 
May  a  similar  revival  be  granted  to  us  now,  especially  to  the 
young,  and  may  there  be  such  an  eflFusion  of  the  Spirit  on  all 
the  Churches,  that  every  true  member  of  them  may  see  eye  to 
eye,  and  be  of  one  heart  and  one  mind,  so  that  the  dispersed  of 
our  Israel  may  soon  be  gathered  into  one."  * 

*  Eev.  J.  Thomson,  D.D.,  Paisley,  Disr.  Mss.  IriL 


638  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 


L.  The  Whole  Members  of  the  Church  Invited. 

In  the  midst  of  this  awakening  of  religious  life,  there  was  one 
point  on  which  special  stress  was  laid — the  duty  of  all  private 
Christians  to  work  for  Christ,  Men  were  eager  to  strike  while 
the  iron  was  hot,  and  get  the  whole  membership  of  the  Church 
enlisted  in  active  service.  Like  Nelson  on  the  eve  of  battle, 
hoisting  the  signal,  "  England  expects  every  man  this  day  to 
do  his  duty,"  the  Free  Church  in  the  day  of  reviving  reli- 
gious zeal,  sent  the  appeal  through  the  ranks  of  her 
adherents,  summoning  each  man  to  enrol  himself  among  the 
workers  and  stand  to  his  post  amidst  the  pressing  needs  of 
the  time. 

In  carrying  out  this  proposal  there  was  one  advantage  on  the 
side  of  the  Church — her  communion  had  been  purified  to  a 
large  extent  by  the  Disruption.  A  kind  of  natural  selection 
had  been  going  on  by  which  the  most  earnest  minds  had  been 
brought  into  the  Free  Church,  while  many  of  the  more  careless, 
and  of  those  whose  presence  was  a  hindrance,  were  left  behind. 
This  was  the  subject  of  common  remark  in  different  parts  of  the 
country,  as  a  few  extracts  will  show. 

At  Roslin,  Mr.  Brown  states,  "  The  result  has  been  very  con- 
siderably to  purge  the  communion  roll."*  At  Huntly  they  say, 
"  We  carried  with  us  almost  all  the  pious,  and  most  of  those 
who  had  any  earnestness  about  Divine  things."!  Sometimes  it 
is  with  a  feeling  of  thankfulness  that  such  results  are  referred 
to.  "The  Disruption  had  the  incidental  eflect  (at  Collace) 
of  freeing  our  communion  roll  from  all  those  in  the  parish 
who  were  communicants  in  former  days,  and  who  had  not 
*  Disr.  Mss.  xiv.  p.  5.  t  Disr.  Mss.  x.  p.  13. 


THE  WHOLE  MEMBERS  OF  THE  CHURCH  INVITED.         639 

even  the  form  of  religion  in  their  families."*  In  the  con- 
gregation of  Woodside,  Aberdeen,  Mr.  Forbes  states, 
"Certainly  one  of  the  best  results  has  been  to  lead  to  a 
purer  communion.  Generally  speaking,  the  parties  who  left 
us  were  those  whom  we  were  least  solicitous  to  retain  in 
our  membership."*!- 

"Before  the  Disruption  there  were  many,"  says.  Mr.  Grant 
at  Braco,  "  in  communion  with  the  Church,  who  were  by 
no  means  a  credit  to  religion,  but  upon  whom  we  could 
not  bring  the  discipline  of  the  Church  to  bear.  Often, 
indeed,  have  the  office-bearers  of  my  congregation  expressed 
their  thankfulness  they  were  no  more  in  communion  with 
them."+ 

Such  statements  from  different  parts  of  the  country  show 
what  the  general  results  were.  Additional  testimonies  of  a 
similar  kind  could  be  multiplied  if  needful,  but  it  may  be 
enough  to  give  one  from  outside  the  Free  Church,  from  the 
ablest,  indeed,  of  those  who  appeared  in  defence  of  the  Establish- 
ment. "  The  best  ministers,"  Dr.  Norman  M'Leod  states  sorrow- 
fully, "  and  the  best  portion  of  our  people,  have  gone."§  Nor 
was  he  alone  in  this  view.  "  A  minister  who  remained  in  the 
Establishment  wrote  to  me,"  says  Mr.  Macrae  of  Braemar  and 
Knockbain,  "  with  sadness  that  all  his  good  people  had  deserted 
him,  and  acknowledged  that  it  was  an  immense  advantage  to 
the  ministers  of  the  Free  Church  that  they  had  the  countenance 
and  sympathy  of  the  piety  of  the  land."  || 

After  Mr.  Edgar  of  Memus  had  been  called  and  fairly  begun 
his  work  in  1843,  one  of  the  neighbouring  ministers  (Established 
Church)  told  him  that  "  the  Free  Church  had  got  all  his  good 
people  and  all  who  had  contributed  anything  to  the  mission 
schemes  of  the  Church."  IF 

All  this  might  well  make  the  Free  Church  feel  more  deeply 
the  responsibility  of  her  position. 

"We  have,  in  a  great  measure,"  says  Dr.  Burns,  "got  free 
from  worldly  conformity,  at  least  in  one  of  its  most  ensnaring 

*  Disr.  Mss.  xxi.  p.  4.  §  ]\Iemoir,  Edinburgh,  1878,  p.  119. 

t  Disr.  Mss.  xxvii.  p.  11.  ||  Disr.  Mss.  Ixx.  p.  33. 

Z  Disr.  Mss.  xiii.  IT  Disr.  Mss.  Ixxviii.  p.  12. 


640  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

forms.  May  we  have  grace  to  improve  our  freedom  and  be  kept 
from  evils  on  other  hands."  * 

In  Fife,  Mr.  Melville  of  Logie  is  said  to  have  been  remark- 
able for  the  godliness  of  his  life.  "While  he  was  the  humblest 
of  the  humble,  all  who  came  in  contact  with  him  felt  the  piety 
of  the  man.  He  told  the  writer  of  these  notes  (the  clerk  of  the 
Presbytery)  that  the  two  things  which  God  had  most  blessed  to 
him  were  the  death  of  his  only  son  and  the  Disruption.  He 
said  that  up  to  the  Disruption  he  had  at  communions,  and  on 
other  occasions,  to  associate  with  moderate  ministers,  and  that 
their  society  was  blighting  to  his  soul ;  but  that  after  separating 
from  the  Establishment  he  felt  himself  breathing  a  purer 
atmosphere."  -|- 

In  similar  terms  Mr.  Thomson  of  Prestonkirk  records  his 
experience,  looking  back  over  an  interval  of  more  than  thirty 
years  : — "  On  the  whole,  I  believe  I  have  been  happier  than  I 
might  have  been  had  there  been  no  Disruption.  I  have  had 
a  more  select  people,  more  intelligent  and  more  religious  to  deal 
with ;  for,  of  course,  it  was  for  the  most  part  such  only  that 
joined  the  Free  Church.  One  great  advantage  to  myself, 
personally,  has  been  the  being  delivered  from  the  constantly 
deadening  influence  of  intercourse  with  the  moderate  ministers,  j 
At  Braemar  the  greatest  encouragement  arose  from  the  appear- 
ance of  the  congregation.  There  was  "  a  solemnity  that  never 
was  observable  before,  and  there  was  the  irresistible  impression 
that  our  cause  was  the  cause  of  God.  I  felt  that  the  position  I 
occupied  as  a  Free  Church  minister  had  many  advantages.  My 
situation  as  a  minister  of  the  Established  Church  had  brought  me 
often  into  society  where  I  felt  uncomfortable,  being  unable  to 
receive  or  to  communicate  good,  and  often  when  it  was  felt  to 
be  a  duty  to  observe  the  courtesies  of  life  the  observance  was  a 
bondage.  From  this  the  Disruption  has  set  me  free,  and  as 
freedom  the  change  is  certainly  regarded.  .  .  .  Had  our  trials 
been  greater  they  would  have  been  unfelt  amid  the  comforts  we 
enjoyed.      The  general   heartiness  of  the  people,  the  solemn 

*  Disr.  Mss.  xxix.  p.  18 
+  Parker  Mss.  Pres.  Cupar. 
X  Disr.  Mss.  Ixv.  p.  2. 


THE  WHOLE  MEMBERS  OF  THE  CHURCH  INVITED.  641 

prayer-meetings,  attended  by  so  many  respectable  strangers 
from  all  parts  of  the  kingdom,  and  the  impression  on  the  young, 
who,  of  their  own  accord,  commenced  prayer-meetings  among 
themselves  in  the  most  retired  places  in  the  open  air ;  such 
circumstances  were  calculated  to  encourage  and  animate  our 
hearts,  and  to  render  light  any  difficulties  with  which  we  had 
to  contend."* 

In  many  cases  it  was  in  the  kirk-session  of  the  parish  that 
outgoing  ministers  found  their  chief  support.  In  Edinburgh 
and  Glasgow,  and  the  other  larger  towns,  we  have  seen  how  the 
office-bearers  rallied  round  their  outgoing  pastors  in  such 
numbers,  and  in  many  cases  of  such  high  social  position,  as  at 
once  gave  weight  and  importance  to  the  cause  of  the  Free  Church. 
In  many  a  country  district  also  it  is  impossible  to  over-estimate 
what  the  Church  owed  to  the  adhering  elders.  Mr.  Fergusson, 
for  example,  gives  an  account  of  the  Kirk-Session  at  Dunnichen, 
and  his  statement  would  apply  in  greater  or  lesser  measure  to 
many  another  parish  at  the  time: — "The  outcoming  elders  of 
Dunnichen  were  joined  by  three  elders  from  the  contiguous 
parish  of  Rescobie,  which  had  been  ministered  to  by  the  Rev. 
William  Rogers,  a  man  of  God,  who  had  laboured  and  prayed 
for  his  flock  for  more  than  thirty  years,  and  who  left  behind 
him  not  a  few  gracious  fruits  of  his  ministry  to  swell  the  Free 
Church  congregations  of  Forfar,  Dunnichen,  and  Aberlemno. 
The  Free  Kirk  Session  of  Dunnichen  comprised  a  body  of 
country  men,  specially  remarkable  for  gifts  and  graces — men  of 
deep  piety  andconstant  prayer,  distinguishedbyuncommonnatural 
intelligence  and  sagacity — and,  on  the  part  of  several  of  them, 
by  extensive  reading  in  the  field  of  Puritan  theology,  and  whose 
moral  influence  in  the  district  was  consequently  prodigious.  I 
remember  a  specimen  of  shrewd  remark  upon  the  part  of  one 
of  them,  which  I  record  as  not  unworthy  of  the  consideration  of 
young  ministers  at  the  present  day.  A  minister,  who  had 
preached  at  the  moderation  of  a  call,  having  remarked  in  the 
presence  of  some  ministers  and  elders  that  he  had  written  the 
sermon  before  he  had  selected  his  text,  called  forth  from  this 
elder  the  remark  : — '  Hoot,  hoot,  sir,  surely  that's  no  the  way 

*  Disr.  Mss.  Ixx.  pp.  18-24. 

2T 


642  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

ava.'  '  And  how,  John/  remarked  one  of  the  other  ministers 
present,  '  how  would  you  do  if  you  were  to  write  a  sermon  ? ' 
'  Perhaps,'  said  the  elder,  '  I  should  not  give  an  opinion,  but  I 
think  that  I  would  first  try  to  find  out  a  text,  then  I  would  try 
to  find  out  the  meaning  of  it,  and  then  1  would  stick  to  it' 
In  this  Kirk-Session  of  the  Free  Church  of  Dunnichen  there 
were  five  men,  any  one  of  whom  could  (when,  as  frequently 
happened  in  these  days,  no  ministerial  services  could  be 
obtained)  conduct  Divine  service  in  the  congregation,  reading  a 
sermon  of  Newton,  or  Elavel,  or  some  approved  Divine,  to  the 
edification  and  satisfaction  of  an  audience  which  contained 
several  educated  and  intelligent  members,  so  that  the  congrega- 
tion came  out  as  largely  in  such  circumstances  as  when  any  of 
the  members  of  Presbytery  was  ofiiciating.  A  minister  who 
visited  the  congregation  after  I  had  been  translated  elsewhere, 
remarked  to  me  that  he  had  never  seen  anywhere  a  kirk-session 
like  it:  composed  of  men  all  in  the  lower  walks  of  life,  and  who 
j'Bt,  by  their  piety  and  prudence  and  consistent  profession,  were 
looked  up  to  and  revered  by  all  classes  of  the  community.  The 
sole  survivor  of  that  cluster  of  elders  is  my  friend,  Mr.  George 
Milne,  who  is  now  the  chaplain  of  the  Magdalene  Asylum  in 
Edinburgh,  and  who  has  adorned  the  office  of  the  eldership 
since  1843." 

In  these  circumstances,  the  religious  earnestness  formerly  to 
be  found  with  the  Establishment  having  to  a  large  extent  been 
transferred  to  the  Free  Church,  it  was  the  bounden  duty  of  her 
ministers  and  elders  to  make  the  most  of  their  opportunity. 
Not  for  many  a  day  had  there  been  such  advantages.  The 
pulse  of  spiritual  life  was  beginning  to  beat  more  vigorously. 
The  members  of  the  General  Assembly  met  in  conference  were 
earnestly  seeking  a  new  consecration  of  themselves  to  God's 
service  ;  but,  while  taking  their  own  place  and  leading  the  way, 
the  point  most  urgently  pressed  was  that  private  Christians, 
one  and  all,  ought  to  be  workers. 

As  to  this,  the  Moderator — Dr.  Henry  Grey — spoke  out  in 
plain  terms  in  his  address  at  the  close  of  the  Assembly  : — 
"  There  are  hundreds  of  labourers,  male  and  female,  standing 
idle  around  us,  who  want  to  be  enlisted  in  this  interesting  ser- 


I 


THE  WHOLE  MEMBERS  OF  THE  CHURCH  INVITED.  643 

vice.  None  should  come  into  the  vineyard  to  be  idlers  there 
A  useless  Christian  is  like  a  cold  fire  or  a  dark  sun — a  con- 
tradiction in  terms.  Why  might  not  our  hearers  be  called  out, 
classified,  and  engaged  in  work  for  their  own  improvement  and 
the  welfare  of  others  ?  "* 

Again,  in  the  following  Assembly  the  appeal  was  no  less 
emphatic. 

"  It  is  the  duty  of  as  many  as  know  Christ  to  commend  Him 
to  others,  saying  every  man  to  his  neighbour,  '  Know  ye  the 
Lord,'  and  that  this  should  take  place  in  an  orderly  and 
approved  way.  A  Church  of  Christ  ought  to  leaven  the  world 
not  merely  by  means  of  its  ministers  and  office-bearers,  but  by 
the  testimony  and  influence  and  example  of  its  ordinary  mem- 
bers. When  we  look  abroad  on  this  country  of  ours, 
with  its  multitudinous  population,  never  can  we  discharge  our 
duty  till  every  good  man,  woman,  and  child,  who  have  a  care  for 
their  own  souls,  shall  also  be  engaged  in  caring  for  the  soul  of 
another.  If  every  living  soul  would  stir  up  one  which  is  dead, 
the  blessed  work  would  go  on  by  geometrical  progression  till 
believers  would  soon  be  increased  an  hundredfold.  Oh,  that 
every  member  of  our  Church  was  found  relying  on  Christ, 
feeding  on  Christ,  and  growing  in  Christ,  to  the  salvation  of  his 
own  soul  and  that  of  his  neighbour !  "-f* 

There  was  one  class  of  her  adherents  from  whom  the  Church 
received  an  early  and  most  cordial  response — The  Young  Men. 
In  the  Assembly  of  1847  attention  had  been  called  to  the 
societies  of  young  men  already  formed  in  connection  with 
various  congregations,  especially  in  the  city  of  Glasgow,  and 
the  Court  formally  recommended  the  setting  up  of  such 
associations.  Peculiar  interest  attaches  to  the  origin  of  this 
movement,  and  we  gladly  avail  ourselves  of  the  narrative  of 
one  of  those  who  took  part  in  it  at  the  outset : — 

"  Early  in  the  year  1842,  and  at  the  time  when  the  Church 
of  Scotland  was  in  the  midst  of  the  throes  of  the  Pre-Disruption 
controversy,  a  dozen  young  men  met  in  a  room  in  Glasgow  to 
talk  over  the  questions  which  were  the  absorbing  topics  of  the 

*  Blue  Book,  1844,  p.  269  ;  Ass.  Proc.  1844,  p.  269. 
t  Blue  Book.  iv.  98-110. 


844  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

day,  when  it  was  resolved  that  they  should  form  themselves  into 
a  society,  to  be  called  'The  Young  Men's  Free  Protesting 
Church  of  Scotland  Society.'  The  objects  of  the  Society  were 
for  the  mutual  information  of  its  members  on  the  great  question 
then  agitating  the  mind  of  the  country  in  connection  with  the 
Church,  and  for  interesting  the  young  men  throughout  the 
city  and  neighbourhood,  and  preparing  them  for  taking  their 
part  in  the  work  which  seemed,  by  that  time,  to  be  becoming 
inevitable — viz.,  the  organising  and  carrying  on  of  a  Church 
unconnected  with  the  State,  and  free  from  all  State  control. 
In  the  course  of  a  few  months  the  organisation  was  so  com- 
plete that  a  great  meeting  was  held  in  the  City  Hall  to 
inaugurate  the  Society. 

"  That  meeting  was  addressed  by  Guthrie,  Candlish,  Cunning- 
ham, Buchanan,  and  others — the  leading  men  in  the  Non- 
intrusion controversy.  The  result  was  the  formation  of  a  branch 
of  the  Society  in  connection  with  every  congregation  in  the  city. 
This  was  the  origin  of  the  Young  Men's  Societies  in  our  congre- 
gation. Two  of  the  original  twelve  young  men  who  founded 
the  parent  Society  were  more  or  less  connected  with  Laurieston 
Free  Church — one  of  them  is  now  a  minister  in  the  Presbyterian 
Church  in  England,  and  the  other  is  a  merchant  in  the  city. 
Of  the  twelve  young  men  who  founded  the  parent  Society,  so 
far  as  is  known  to  the  writer  of  these  notes,  only  six  survive — 
two  of  them  became  ministers,  and  the  other  four  are  merchants 
resident  in  Glasgow.  It  may  be  interesting  here  to  note  that, 
after  the  Disruption,  the  societies  then  formed  still  continued 
to  exist  as  young  men's  societies  in  connection  with  the  various 
congregations  in  Glasgow,  and  long  after  the  time  when  the 
original  object  for  which  they  were  founded  had  ceased  to  be 
the  primary  business,  they  became  the  nucleus  of  what,  in 
the  course  of  time,  has  become  a  great  power,  not  only 
in  Glasgow,  but  throughout  the  country  and  the  whole 
Christian  world — viz.  "  The  Young  Men's  Christian  Associa- 
tion.'"* 

In  this  way,  from  the  Disruption  onward,  has  the  Free  Church 
summoned  and  welcomed  all  her  people  of  all  positions  in  life  to 
•   Union  Free  Church  Monthly  liecord,  March,  1881. 


THE  WHOLE  MEMBERS  OF  THE  CHURCH  INVITED.  645 

"come  to  the  help  of  the  Lord."  There  is  no  need  for  the  Christ- 
ian to  leave  his  calling — to  become  a  minister  or  to  go  abroad  as  a 
missionary  to  the  heathen.  In  the  neighbourhood  to  which  he 
belongs  he  will  find  work  enough  to  be  done  for  Christ.  There 
is  ignorance,  and  drunkenness,  and  infidelity,  and  sin  in  the 
community,  and  with  these  he  must  contend,  striving  as  he  finds 
opportunity  to  win  souls  for  Christ.  In  this  way  it  is  that  the 
Church  is  to  be  built  up  and  the  world  subdued,  so  that  at  the 
name  of  Jesus  every  knee  may  bow. 

Outside  the  Free  Church — beyond  the  limits  of  denom- 
inational work — there  was  a  wide  field  where,  as  Christians, 
they  would  find  scope  for  works  of  faith  and  labours  of 
love. 

Inside  their  own  Church,  on  the  other  hand,  there  was  no 
want  of  work  waiting  to  be  done.  Collectors  were  needed  for 
raising  funds,  and  that  in  no  secular  spirit,  but  prayerfully  and 
in  faith,  as  a  sacred  duty  to  Christ.  There  were  agencies  for 
tract  distribution,  and  district  visitation  ;  there  were  missionary 
associations,  prayer-meetings,  and  fellowship  meetings.  Sab- 
bath-schools also  opened  an  inviting  field  in  which  private 
Christians  could  engage,  not  only  giving  instruction  to  the 
children  of  church-going  parents,  but  gathering  in  those  of  the 
careless  outside  population,  through  whom  the  parents  might 
be  reached,  and  so  they  might  influence  the  most  careless.  Thus, 
whatever  a  man's  gifts  might  be,  if  only  he  had  the  desire,  it  would 
be  hard  if  he  did  not  find  that  the  Free  Church  had  some  con- 
genial work  to  put  into  his  hands  which  would  suit  his  tastes. 
All  who  were  willing  to  work  would  find  some  recognised 
position  in  which  they  might  give  their  help. 

In  the  enforcing  of  this  duty,  no  appeals  were  more  urgent 
than  those  of  Dr.  Chalmers: — 

"  The  bringing  in  of  the  lay  element — drawing  out  all  members 
of  the  Church  and  setting  them  to  work — is  of  vast  moment.  I 
am  sure  many  of  the  elders  could  officiate  at  congregational 
meetings,  and  give  great  satisfaction  to  the  people.  While 
talking  on  this  subject,  I  am  reminded  of  a  circumstance  which 
took  place  in  the  parish  of  Markinch  a  good  many  years  ago. 
Old  Lord  Leven  commenced  very  extensive  ironworks  in  that 


646  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

part,  at  which  -a  great  many  workmen  were  employed,  and  these 
the  noble  Earl  thought  proper  to  have  opened  with  prayer. 
This  was  all  good;  but  when  the  clergyman  of  the  parish 
who  was  called  upon  to  officiate  was  told  so,  he  received 
the  intelligence  with  some  degree  of  suspicion,  remarking  that 
he  saw  no  warrant  in  Scripture  for  opening  an  iron-house  with 
prayer.  Accordingly  the  company  who  had  assembled  on  the 
occasion  waited  and  better  waited,  but  no  minister  appeared, 
upon  which  the  venerable  Earl,  baring  his  head  and  exposing 
his  grey  hairs  to  the  elements  in  the  presence  of  all  the  gentry 
and  peasantry,  oifered  up  a  most  impressive  prayer.  And  so 
well  did  he  discharge  the  duty  that,  as  the  story  goes,  one  of  the 
workmen,  when  it  was  over,  addressing  his  neighbour,  said, '  My 
Lord  did  better  than  any  blackcoat  o'  them  a'.'"* 

Such  was  the  attitude  taken  by  the  Church  when  the  key- 
note was  struck  in  the  early  Assemblies,  and  as  years  went  on 
it  is  important  to  observe  that  the  point  was  pressed  with  ever- 
growing earnestness.  It  is  remarkable  how  often  men  reiterated 
this  admonition.  "All  that  was  required,"  said  Dr.  Rainy, 
"was,  that  men  should  go  forth  and  tell  their  fellow- 
sinners  that  they  are  perishing,  and  that  they  must  come  to 
Christ  or  they  are  lost.  It  really  amounted  to  nothing  else 
than  that,  man  by  man,  they  should  go  forth  and  say,  not  to 
the  people  generally,  but  to  individuals,  'You  must  be  converted 
and  come  to  Christ.'" 

"  They  would  never,"  Dr.  Roxburgh  declared,  "  be  in  a  sound 
condition  until  all  the  Christians  of  Scotland  came  to  regard 
themselves  as  Christian  missionaries  in  the  spirit  of  self-denying, 
self-sacrificing  love.  Did  every  church-going  family  undertake 
the  spiritual  oversight  of  some  one  among  the  countless  number 
of  our  prayerless  and  neglected  families,  did  they  make  them 
the  subject  of  daily  prayer  at  their  own  family  altars,  what  a 
blessed  change  would  speedily  be  wrought."  How  would  the 
Church  realise  the  character  of  the  leaven  that  leaveneth  the 
whole  lump ! 

In  the  words  of  Professor  Miller,  "If  each  man  and  each  woman 
were  doing  the  Home  Mission  work  what  a  help  there  would 
*  Blue  Book,  1844,  252. 


THE  WHOLE  MEMBERS  OF  THE  CHURCH  INVITED.  647 

be  given  to  the  ministry  of  the  Gospel.  They  remembered  the 
wall  of  Jerusalem  was  built  by  every  man  building  opposite  his 
own  door.  Let  that  be  the  work  —  the  work  of  laymen, 
church  members,  every  one  who  had  known  something  of  what 
it  was  to  be  themselves  taught  under  the  influence  of  Divine 
truth."  * 

This  is  one  of  the  main  causes  of  the  success  of  our  terri 
torial  churches.  The  best  agency  in  them  is  found  to  be  the 
humble  hardworking  men  and  women,  who,  having  themselves 
tasted  that  the  Lord  is  gracious,  devote  a  portion  of  their  time 
after  working-hours  to  visiting  and  dealing  with  their  care- 
less companions  and  neighbours  about  the  welfare  of  their 
souls.-f- 

"  Our  Free  Church  has  250,000  communicants.  Were  aU 
these  alive  to  their  privileges  and  duties,  what  a  mighty  force 
they  would  constitute.  It  is  our  part  to  urge  on  our  people  the 
imperative  necessity  of  their  breaking  forth  on  the  right  hand 
and  on  the  left  to  gather  in  the  souls  that  lie  around 
them.'  + 

Thus  urgently  did  the  Free  Church  continue  to  summon  her 
members  one  and  all  to  work  for  Christ.  It  was  nothing  more 
than  John  Knox  had  done  at  the  Eeformation.  "  In  1560  he 
found  his  country  emerging  from  the  darkness  of  popery. 
Getting  round  him  a  band  of  twelve  fellow-labourers  in  the 
ministry,he  called  forth  everymanwho  could  read  the  Bible, called 
him  a  reader,  and  set  him  to  read  to  the  people  in  public.  If  he 
could  add  some  words  of  exhortation,  he  called  him  an  exhorter, 
and  thus  prepared  them  step  by  step  for  the  ministry.  In 
seven  years  he  had  called  into  existence  a  body  of  1200  workers, 
who  took  possession  of  the  country.  The  Free  Church  was  in 
far  more  favourable  circumstances  for  calling  out  a  willing 
agency."§  The  Scotland  of  184<3  was  in  a  far  other  condition 
as  an  educated  country — thanks  to  what  Knox  had  done.  Still, 
the  need  for  Christian  workers  was  not  less  pressing,  and  hence 

*  Blue  Book,  1860,  p.  76. 

t  Ibid.,  1868 — Report  on  Religion  and  Morals,  pp.  4,  5. 

X  Ibid.,  1868,  p.  18. 

§  Dr.  Hetherington,  in  Free  Church  Mag.  ii.  p.  47. 


648  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION, 

her  urgent  appeal  for  men  in  all  positions  of  life  to  give  theii 
services. 

But,  indeed,  the  Free  Church  went  beyond  John  Knox.  It 
was  a  levie  en  masse  which  was  contemplated — the  enrolling  of 
one  and  all  her  members  as  workers  for  the  cause  of  Christ. 
In  this  sinful  world  there  were  on  all  sides  of  us  open  doors  of 
Christian  usefulness,  and  all  were  bound  to  give  ear  to  the  cry, 
rising  on,  every  hand,  "  Come  over  and  help  us !  come  to  the 
help  of  the  Lord!" 


THE  HIGHLANDS.  649 


LI.  The  Highlands, 

One  of  the  first  demands  most  urgently  pressing  on  the  Free 
Church  was  the  appeal  which  came  from  the  Highlands  for  the 
supply  of  religious  ordinances.  The  Celtic  population,  differing 
in  language  and  customs  from  the  rest  of  Scotland,  and  marked 
by  many  noble  characteristics,  had  adhered  to  the  Free  Church 
in  such  numbers  that  they  had  a  special  claim  on  her  regard. 
Of  the  474  ministers  who  came  out  at  the  Disruption,  there 
were  101  who  were  in  the  habit  of  using  the  Gaelic  language 
in  public  worship.  All  over  the  mainland,  beyond  the  Cale- 
donian Canal,  the  population  had  joined  the  Church  almost  en 
masse,  and  though  in  some  parts  of  Argyle  and  the  Isles  most 
of  the  ministers  remained  in  the  Establishment,  and  Moderatism 
had  held  their  congregations  in  ignorance,  yet  after  a  time  the 
light  began  to  be  diffused,  and  to  a  great  extent  the  people 
rallied  round  the  Free  Church.  "  It  is  the  testimony,"  said  Dr. 
Candlish  in  1844,  "  not  only  of  our  friends,  but  of  many  who 
are  not  connected  with  us,  that  the  Highland  population  are  all 
but  entirely  on  our  side,  and  that  at  present  the  only  limit  to 
the  number  of  our  congregations  arises  from  the  scanty  supply 
of  labourers."* 

That  this  was  no  mere  clerical  movement  was  shown  in 
various  ways ;  the  congregations,  indeed,  in  many  cases 
were  in  advance  of  the  ministers.  "  The  principles  of  the 
Church,"  Dr  Mackay  states,  "  were  rivetted  on  the  souls 
of  the  people,  and  taught  from  generation  to  generation. 
The  Church  is  the  constant  subject  of  conversation  and  prayer." 
In  Sutherland,  he  tells  of  a  parish  minister — a  much-esteemed 
friend  of  his  own — who,  during  the  conflict,  had  been  rather 
*  Blue  Book,  1844,  p.  195. 


650  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

slow  in  announcing  the  course  he  intended  to  take,  when,  one 
Sabbath  forenoon,  on  the  eve  of  the  Disruption,  he  was  brought 
to  the  point.  On  approaching  his  place  of  worship,  he  was 
met  by  his  whole  congregation — "  not  assembled  as  usual,  but 
standing  round  the  outside  of  the  church  in  a  compact  body  ; 
and  as  he  drew  near,  the  elders,  in  a  band,  came  forward  with 
this  message  :  '  Sir,  you  must  now  declare  to  us  what  your 
resolution  is.  Are  you  to  remain  in  the  Establishment,  or  join 
the  faithful  band  who  are  about  to  quit  it  ?  for,  if  you  are  to 
remain,  we,  as  a  body,  have  come  to  the  resolution  of  never  sub- 
mitting ourselves,  from  this  day,  to  your  ministry.'  "  * 

In  the  midst  of  such  a  state  of  feeling  in  the  North,  it  is  not 
difficult  to  explain  the  almost  universal  adherence  of  the  people 
to  the  Free  Church.  A  few  instances  may  be  given  to  show  the 
condition  to  which  the  Establishment  was  reduced. 

In  1849,  Sir  George  Sinclair-f-  states  :  "  It  is  but  yesterday  that 
a  gentleman,  himself  an  adherent  of  the  Establishment,  said  to 
me,  with  a  sigh,  '  You  are  far  better  off  here  (Caithness)  than 
we  are  in  Sutherland.  Our  congregations  are  everywhere 
smaller.  In  one  large  parish  there  are  none ;  in  another,  when 
I  went  to  attend  the  induction  (I  think  he  said)  of  a  new 
minister,  the  number  of  attendants  was  only  two,  and  through- 
out whole  districts  of  that  extensive  county  our  situation  and 
prospects  are  equally  discouraging.'"]: 

At  Kiltearn,  Ross-shire,  the  whole  people  went  out,  except 
"  two  or  three  individuals."  "  Only  six  persons  were  present  in 
the  old  Church  at  the  moderation  of  the  call  to  the  new  incum- 
bent, and  the  six  included  the  Presbytery  and  the  presentee." 

In  the  parish  of  Latheron,  Caithness,  with  its  six  churches 
and  8000  of  a  population,  there  remained  in  the  Establishment 
"  not  a  single  minister,  elder,  catechist,  or  teacher,  and  not  even 
a  single  communicant,  except  one  South-country  grieve  (steward). 
The  teachers,  in  particular,  who  numbered  twenty-one — includ- 
ing parochial.  Assembly,  Society,  and  adventure,  male  and  female 
— all  left  in  a  body,  several  of  them  having  the  prospect  of 

*  Blue  Book,  October,  1843,  p.  68. 

t  As  yet  a  supporter  of  the  Establishment. 

t  Witness  Newspaper,  21st  November,  1849. 


THE  HIGHLANDS.  651 

great  hardships  before  them.  .  .  .  One  of  our  most  hostile 
proprietors  remarked,  with  deep  sadness,  that  we  had  made  a 
clean  sweep  of  the  parish,"  * 

The  case  of  the  South-country  grieve,  however,  was  not  over- 
looked. "  A  missionary,  on  the  Eoyal  Bounty,  had  been  sent 
from  Edinburgh  by  the  Established  Church  to  labour  among 
a  Gaelic-speaking  population,  who,  to  a  man,  had  joined  the 
Free  Church.  Strange  to  say,  he  had  no  Gaelic,  and  even  if  he 
could  have  spoken  the  language,  he  had  no  hearers  to  speak  to. 
Sir  George  Sinclair,  the  proprietor,  in  a  letter  to  the  local 
papers,  suggested  that  he  knew  of  no  better  plan  than  for  the 
stranger  missionary  to  sojourn  with  the  solitary  shepherd,  whose 
language  he  understood,  and  that  the  shepherd  should  adopt 
him  as  Micah  did  the  Levite,  saying.  Dwell  with  me  and  be 
unto  me  a  priest,  and  I  will  give  thee  thy  wages. "•!• 

At  the  Inverness  Assembly,  Dr.  Buchanan  remarked :  "  I 
remember  Dr.  Guthrie  amusing  us  very  much  in  Glasgow,  by 
telling  us  of  the  state  in  which  he  found  a  footpath  through  a 
(Highland)  churchyard.  There  was  no  mark  of  the  path,  but 
every  blade  of  grass  on  what  had  been  the  footpath,  was  stand- 
ing up  as  straight  as  a  halberdier's  pike.  But  he  now  tells  me 
they  are  making  an  improvement  on  the  pathways  in  the  church- 
yards, by  sowing  them  with  salt,  killing  the  grass  so  as  to  keep 
up  the  appearance  of  a  road,  even  if  there  is  none  to  travel  it."  j 

Gratifying  as  this  general  adherence  was  on  the  part  of  such 
a  population,  yet  the  demands  which  arose  caused  no 
little  embarrassment.  In  October,  1843,  it  was  reported  at  the 
Glasgow  Assembly  that  in  the  Gaelic-speaking  districts  there 
were  no  fewer  than  150  vacant  congregations  and  preaching 
stations,  all  calling  out  for  ministers,  while  not  more  than  31 
preachers  were  available  for  supply.  It  was  obviously  impos- 
sible that  the  Church  could  leave  such  a  body  of  supporters  as 
sheep  without  a  shepherd,  and  temporary  arrangements  were 
made  at  once.  Twelve  of  the  most  eminent  Highland  ministers 
were  set  free  from  their  congregations  for  six  months  to  go 

*  Latheron,  Parker  Mss.  p.  5. 

t  Ibid.,  pp.  10-12. 

X  Blue  Book,  Inverness,  1845,  p.  64. 


652  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

forth  with  Dr.  M'Donald,  "  the  Apostle  of  the  North,"  at  their 
head,  to  itinerate  and  preach  wherever  the  want  was  greatest. 
Added  to  these,  there  were  about  eighty  Gaelic-speaking 
ministers  who  agreed  to  give  similar  service  for  a  month ;  and 
for  several -years  this  arrangement  was  continued. 

Thus,  the  most  strenuous  efforts  were  made  to  meet  the  immediate 
want,  but  a  far  more  important  object  was  to  provide  permanent 
supply,  and  with  this  view  steps  were  taken  without  delay.  Every 
minister  in  the  Highlands  was  required  to  send  in  the  names  of 
promising  young  men,  to  be  educated  for  the  ministry.  About 
eighty  names  were  reported,  but  a  large  proportion  of  these  being 
comparatively  young,  means  had  to  be  provided  for  having 
them  educated  and  j&tted  for  entering  college  and  passing 
through  the  Divinity  Hall.  Under  the  fostering  care  of  the 
Highland  Committee,  this  work  was  carried  out  to  some 
extent.  After  a  time,  however,  another  agency  entered 
the  field,  destined  to  aid  the  Free  Church  in  a  way  for 
which  she  might  well  be  thankful.  The  ladies  of  Edin- 
burgh and  Glasgow  formed  associations,  one  object  of  which 
was  the  employment  of  young  students  in  the  work  of  educa- 
tion among  the  remote  Highlands  and  Islands.  The  assistance 
rendered  by  these  associations,  however,  was  so  important  that 
we  shall  refer  to  it  more  at  length  in  a  subsequent  section. 

Such  efforts,  it  was  obvious,  would  require  years  before  they 
could  take  effect.  In  the  meantime,  it  was  all-important  that 
the  deputations  above  referred  to  should  be  enabled  to  do  their 
work  in  the  most  effective  way.  Many  of  the  localities  were 
remote  and  difficult  of  access,  lying  out  of  the  usual  line  of 
communication.  To  save  time  and  trouble,  and  to  make  the 
service  of  the  deputies  more  effective,  it  was  resolved  to  build  a 
vessel  specially  adapted  for  the  purpose,  to  be  placed  at  the 
disposal  of  the  ministers.  The  whole  arrangements  were  put 
into  the  hands  of  Kobert  Brown,  Esq.,  of  Fairly,*  who  "devoted 
his  great  inteUigence  as  well  as  much  zealous  attention  to  the 
subject."  Built  under  his  skilful  supervision  the  vessel — The 
Breadalhane  schooner — proved  to  be  "admirably  suited  for  the 
purpose,"  and  was  universally  spoken  of  in  the  highest  terms 
*  Blue  Book,  1843,  Glasgow,  p.  115. 


THE  HIGHLANDS.  653 

for  "her  comfortable  accommodation,  her  remarkable  sailing- 
powers,  and  steadiness  as  a  sea-boat." 

At  the  end  of  five  years  the  Highland  Committee  bore 
grateful  testimony  to  the  great  value  of  the  service  she  had 
rendered.*  Her  log  for  1846  is  given  in  the  Missionary 
Record,'^  and  taking  it  as  an  example,  it  is  interesting  to 
observe  how  busily  she  was  engaged  from  11th  May  to 
14th  November.  Clearing  out  from  Kothesay,  she  takes  on 
board  Mr.  Colin  Mackenzie,  of  Arrochar,  at  Oban,  and 
Mr.  Mackenzie,  of  Beauly,  at  Castle  INIoyle,  sails  for 
Lewis,  and  lands  them  at  Stornoway. — Mr,  M'Innes,  of 
Tummelbridge,  is  conveyed  to  Ulva ;  Mr.  Clark,  of  Aberfeldy, 
to  Harris;  Mr.  Stewart,  of  Blair  Athole,  to  Loch  Spelvie  ; 
Mr.  Maclean,  of  Tobermory,  to  Glen  Borrodale ;  Mr.  Stark,  of 
Raasay,  to  Lochalsh.  On  Srd  August,  Mr.  Roderick  M'Leod, 
of  Snizort,  embarks  for  St.  Kilda,  where  he  lands  on  5th 
August.  In  September  she  is  off  Oban,  where  Dr.  Aldcorn 
and  l)r.  Campbell  come  on  board  requesting  the  schooner  to 
proceed  with  them  direct  to  Easdale  on  a  medical  visit  to  the 
Rev.  Peter  M'Bride,  suddenly  taken  ill  in  the  midst  of  his 
devoted  labours.  And  so  the  narrative  of  these  busy  months 
runs  on  as  the  ship  goes  threading  her  way  from  island  to  island, 
and  coasting  along  the  shores  of  the  mainland,  landing  ministers 
where  help  was  needed  and  transferring  them  from  place  to 
place,  till  at  last  we  find  her  lying  wind-bound  in  Benbecula 
from  29th  October  to  10th  November,  on  which  date  she  sails 
for  Oban,  her  last  voyage  for  the  season,  conveying  home  Dr. 
Aldcorn  and  Mr.  M'Lean,  of  Glenorchy,  on  his  return  after  a 
five  months'  service  in  the  Long  Island. 

The  glimpse  thus  obtained  of  what  was  being  done  may  give 
some  idea  of  the  efforts  made  for  the  supply  of  ordinances.  The 
number  of  ministers  conveyed  during  that  summer  by  The 
Breadalbane  was  forty-six.  And  everywhere  they  met  with 
the  most  cordial  welcome,  "  The  Breadalbane  carries  the 
messengers  of  Christ  from  island  to  island,  and  her  blue  flag  is 
welcomed  in  many  a  creek  where  hitherto  the  Gospel  has  been 

*  Blue  Book,  1848,  p.  242. 

+  Missionary  Record,  1846,  p.  552. 


654  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

a  strange  sound.  You  can  have  no  idea  of  the  feelings  with 
which  these  islanders  view  the  good  schooner,  I  will  never 
forget  one  evening  when  a  party  came  from  a  distance,  'just  to 
get  a  sight  of  the  ship,'  and  having  examined  her  snug  and 
comfortable  cabin,  one  of  them  came  to  me,  and  with  tears  in 
his  eyes  said,  'I  now  see  the  Free  Church  is  determined  to 
send  us  the  preaching  of  the  Cross,  and  to  look  after  oui 
souls.'"* 

While  this  was  going  on,  there  fell  on  Britain  the  famine  of 
1846,  which  was  destined  so  seriously  to  affect  the  political 
and  commercial  destinies  of  the  nation.  Nowhere  in  Scotland 
was  the  calamity  so  grievously  felt  as  in  these  remote  Highlands 
and  Islands,  where  the  potato  crops  had  almost  entirely  failed. 
The  Free  Church,  to  which  the  starving  people  chiefly  belonged, 
were  the  first  to  come  to  the  rescue,  raising  at  once  a  sum 
of  more  than  £15,000.  In  that  crisis  the  services  of  The 
Breadalhane  were  invaluable  ;  first  on  a  voyage  of  inquiry,  to 
ascertain  where  the  pressure  of  want  was  most  severe,  and 
afterwards  to  carry  the  supplies  of  meal  to  the  destitute.  The 
twofold  ministry  went  M'ell  together — the  temporal  and  the 
spiritual.  We  can  easily  understand  what  one  has  stated, 
that  the  sensation  in  whole  congregations  and  districts  was  very 
great  when  The  Breadalhane,  appeared  in  the  offing.  Many 
a  day  the  sight  of  her  flag  had  been  a  cordial  to  the  hearts  of 
the  poor  people  hungering  for  the  bread  that  perisheth  as  well 
as  for  that  which  endureth  unto  everlasting  life.-f" 

A  general  fund  to  meet  the  wants  of  the  sufferers  was  after- 
wards raised  by  public  subscription,  and  in  this  the  members  of 
the  Free  Church  took  their  full  share,  notwithstanding  their 
previous  effort.  It  is  believed  that  not  a  single  person  died  of 
famine  during  the  whole  of  that  calamitous  time. 

Our  chief  concern  here,  however,  is  with  the  spiritual  work  of 
the  Church,  and  her  efforts  while  ministering  to  the  religious 
wants  of  the  people.  Nothing  was  more  remarkable  at  that 
time  than  the  eagerness  with  which  congregations  assembled  to 
listen  to  the  Gospel.     It  had  but  to  be  announced  that  a  Free 

*  Missionary  Record,  Sept.  1845,  p.  202. 
t  Ihid.,  1846,  p.  351. 


THE  HIGHLANDS.  655 

Church  minister  had  arrived  in  any  district,  and  crowds  flocked 
to  hear  him,  and  would  sit  the  livelong  day  listening  to  him. 
They  were  thirsting  for  the  Gospel. 

"  In  those  days  there  was  no  complaining  of  cold,  no  expres- 
sions of  dissatisfaction  with  their  uncomfortable  position.*  To 
wipe  off  the  hoar  frost  or  snow  of  a  Sabbath  forenoon  from  their 
seats  and  then  sit  down  was  almost  a  matter  of  course.  Deli- 
cate persons,  who  under  other  circumstances  would  on  no  con- 
sideration run  the  risk  of  exposure  to  the  elements,  would  come 
and  sit  out  the  whole  service,  forgetful  of  consequences.  The 
truth  is  they  felt  that  the  cause  was  the  Lord's,  and  that  it  was 
their  high  privilege  to  witness  for  it.  But  those  were  great 
times,  to  be  held  in  everlasting  remembrance.  The  shadow  of 
Jehovah's  mighty  hand  was  over  and  around  us.  His  power 
was  felt  in  our  midst.  Souls  thirsted  for  the  Word.  Preaching 
became  delightful,  and  fatigue  and  exposure  were  little  thought 
of." 

Some  examples  of  these  scenes  deserve  to  be  given. 

Already  in  these  Annals  (p.  427)  we  have  narrated  the 
strange  incidents  connected  with  the  iron  church  at  Stron- 
tian,  Argyllshire.  Dr.  Beith  of  Stirling  was  one  of  those  who 
took  a  deep  interest  in  the  case,  and  has  kindly  furnished  us 
with  the  following  notes  taken  at  the  time.  The  reader  will 
best  appreciate  his  narrative  by  referring  to  the  frontispiece  of 
this  Part,  giving  a  view  of  the  iron  ship  on  her  voyage  up  the 
Loch,  showing  the  strange  expedients  to  which  the  Free  Church 
was  compelled  to  have  recourse  where  sites  were  refused. 

"  Loch  Sunart  runs  far  up,  from  the  Sound  of  Mull  and  the 
open  Atlantic,  into  the  country,  and  possesses  on  its  shores  on 
both  sides  a  large  population.  It  was  resolved  to  have  a 
Floating  Chuech,  to  be  moored  in  Loch  Sunart,  to  which  the 
people  might  have  access  by  boat  from  all  quarters.  A  central 
spot  was  fixed  on,  and  the  effort  was  made.  The  enemies  of 
our  cause  were  incredulous,  but  we  were  in  earnest.  The  good 
Graham  Spiers  entered  with  great  spirit  into  the  scheme.  A 
sum  of  £2000  was  speedily  realised.  The  huge  hulk,  con- 
structed of  iron,  was  built,  fitted  up  w^ith  pulpit  and  benches, 
*  Disr.  Mss.  bcvii.  pp.  2,  3. 


656  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

small  vestry,  &c.,  and  successfully  towed  from  the  Clyde  round 
the  Mull  of  Kintyre  by  one  or  two  tug-steamers,  and  in  the 
end  safely  moored  in  the  appointed  place.  The  exploit  of  her 
voyage  over  so  dangerous  a  sea  had  not  been  without  peril. 
The  structure  was  so  great  and  clumsy,  withal  so  unmanage- 
able, that  more  than  once  she  had  nearly  dragged  the  tugs  upon 
the  rocks.  By  the  kindness  of  an  over-ruling  Providence  the 
risks  were  surmounted,  a  safe  arrival  at  the  intended  destina- 
tion was  accomplished,  and  regular  worship  was  established. 
As  a  place  of  worship  the  accommodation  was  very  comfortable. 
The  pulpit  stood  at  the  bow — under  cover  of  course — having 
the  vestry  at  one  side.  The  entrance  for  the  congregation  was 
towards  the  stern  ;  that  for  the  minister  near  the  bow.  A 
passage  on  one  side,  running  the  whole  length  of  the  church, 
afforded  access  to  the  benches,  which  were  ranged  straight 
across  ship  throughout  her  whole  length,  and  occupied  the  entire 
breadth,  excepting  what  was  required  for  the  passage.  About 
750  hearers  could  be  comfortably  accommodated.  Too  large 
the  church  was  for  the  neighbouring  population,  but  some- 
times it  was  quite  filled,  even  crowded,  A  little  experience 
taught  the  method  of  judging  of  the  number  present  by  the 
gauge  provided  at  the  bow-post.  One  number  sank  the  church 
to  a  depth  which  was  marked  by  the  index.  Another  number 
sank  it  to  a  different  depth.  So  it  became  a  very  simple  ques- 
tion in  arithmetic  to  determine  whether  the  number  at  any 
time  present  at  worship  was  two  or  four,  five,  or  seven  hundred. 
"  Here  I  preached  thrice  on  the  Sabbath — twice  in  Gaelic, 
once  in  English — to  a  very  interesting  congregation  of  Morvern 
and  Argyllshire  Highlanders.  When  we  arrived  at  the  ship 
by  boat,  and  took  our  places  about  twelve  o'clock,  the  day  was 
fine,  scarcely  a  breath  of  wind,  the  floating  leviathan  heading 
up  loch,  and  looking  to  the  east.  Our  last  look  of  the  land — 
sloping  beautifully  up  from  both  shores — before  service,  was 
obtained  from  that  point  of  view.  During  the  service  I  became 
conscious  of  some  unaccountable  change,  from  the  altered 
position  of  the  sun's  shadow,  and  from  the  sound  of  water 
striking  the  outside  of  our  place  of  worship  with  the  swashy 
noise  so  familiar  to  one's  ears  on  shipboard.      By-and-by  I 


jiijiijit.'":':::!;:.!!'::/!;,!:.. 


THE  HIGHLANDS.  657 

fancied  I  felt  some  slight  motion,  as  of  heaving  and  rolling. 
It  was  very  slight,  and  disturbed  nobody.  By  half-past  three 
o'clock  the  thiree  services  had  been  brought  to  a  close.  Mean- 
while the  sunshine  had  disappeared,  and  a  rather  deep  shadow 
prevailed  in  our  church  nothwithstanding  the  numerous  and 
large  '  skylights '  overhead.  When  we  emerged  from  our 
under-water  condition  we  found  that  the  wind  had  quite 
changed,  and  that  it  now  blew  up  the  Loch  from  the 
south-west — somewhat  sharply  too — quite  enough  to  expose  the 
boats  and  their  occupants,  as  they  made  their  very  frequent 
trips  to  and  from  the  shore,  to  considerable  showers  of  spray. 
All,  however,  got  safe  to  land,  after  much  time  was  consumed — 
no  casualty,  and  no  discomfort  even,  of  any  kind  occurring  to 
cause  aught  that  was  unpleasant. 

"  I  was  thanked  by  the  office-bearers,  and  told  that  their 
church  had  never  been  so  deep  down  in  the  water  before  ! " 

Here  is  another  interior  in  different  circumstances: — "At 
Resolis,  Mr.  Sage  and  his  people  had  to  meet  in  an  old 
dilapidated  storehouse  on  the  seashore,  in  an  out-of-the- 
way  corner  of  the  parish.  The  building  had  once  been 
uSed  as  a  granary  or  meal  store  by  the  lairds  of  Newhall,  at 
a  time  when  the  tenants  paid  rent  in  kind ;  but  for  years 
it  had  been  unoccupied  except  by  the  rats.  The  place  of 
meeting  was  the  upper  floor  or  storey,  approached  by  an  outside 
stair;  and  as  there  were  no  windows,  the  only  ray  of  light  was 
admitted  through  a  solitary  pane  of  glass  in  the  roof,  not  over 
a  foot  square,  directly  under  which  the  minister  had 
to  stand  to  enable  him  to  read.  The  congregation,  number- 
ing several  hundreds  of  people,  —  one  could  scarcely 
guess  how  many,  the  dim  light  barely  serving  to  make 
darkness  visible,  —  were  packed  as  closely  as  they  could 
sit  or  stand  together.  And  as  most  of  them  had  come  long 
distances  to  hear  the  Word,  it  was  not  a  brief  hour  and  half  of 
it  that  would  satisfy  them,  but  some  four  or  five  hours  at  least ; 
in  the  course  of  which  there  were  three  services  in  succession, 
without  any  interval."  "  The  writer's  impression  is  that  the 
place  of  meeting  was  used  only  when  the  weather  did  not  admit 

of  their  sitting  with  comfort  in  the  open  air.     On  the  western 

2U 


658  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

side  of  the  parish  there  was  another  place  of  meeting  under  the 
shelter  of  a  wood.  One  of  the  elders  remarked  that  what  the 
Psalmist  had  said  of  the  ark  in  the  132nd  Psalm,  agreed  well 
with  the  experiences  there  of  the  Divine  presence  in  the  wood  : — 

" '  We  did  find  it  in  the  fields, 
And  city  of  the  wood.' "  * 

The  open-air  meetings  were  often  deeply  impressive.  Mr. 
Fraser,  of  Kirkhill,  refers  to  his  experience  immediately  before 
the  Disruption  at  the  crisis  of  the  Ten  Years'  Conflict : — 

"  In  October,  184-2,  it  was  reported  that  there  was  a  great 
religious  movement  throughout  Skye,  and  need  of  more  ministers. 
Accordingly,  I  went  to  assist,  accompanied  by  the  Eev,  Mr. 
Macdonald,  of  Urray.  We  found  the  people  ready  to  assemble 
in  eager  crowds  on  week  days  as  well  as  Sabbaths,  whether  the 
weather  was  wet  or  dry.  One  day,  in  Bracadale,  the  Eev.  Mr. 
Glass  and  I  rode  to  a  remote  mission  station  to  preach.  The 
day  was  so  rainy  that  we  looked  for  a  very  small  audience  ; 
but,  to  our  surprise,  we  overtook  group  after  group  wending 
their  way,  wet  and  draggled.  We  came  to  a  rather  broad  and 
flooded  stream,  and,  for  a  little,  hesitated  whether  we  should 
attempt  to  ford  it,  though  mounted  on  strong  horses.  After 
crossing,  we  waited  to  see  what  the  pedestrians  would  do. 
They  ingeniously  formed  a  chain,  linking  arm  in  arm,  the 
strongest  men  at  the  head  of  it  towards  up  stream.  They  then 
stepped  in,  the  men  first,  bearing  the  force  of  the  stream,  sup- 
ported by  the  rest  leaning  against  them.  They  thus  diverted  the 
force  of  the  current  from  the  women,  who  formed  the  lower  part  of 
the  chain.  All  got  through,  slowly  but  safely,  and  proceeded 
a  mile  further  to  church,  wet  and  dripping.  The  little  church 
was  filled,  and  where  there  was  such  eagerness  to  hear  the  Word 
it  was  to  be  expected  it  would  make  some  impression.  So  it 
was ;  for,  about  the  middle  of  the  service,  all  heads  were  down, 
silently  weeping  and  wiping  their  eyes,  but  one  hard-featured 
old  man  who,  though  he  held  up  his  head,  had  some  tears  run- 
ning down  his  furrowed  cheeks. 

"  One  day  we  sent  intimation  that  there  would  be  preaching 

*  Disr.  Mss.  Ixxx.  pp.  14-16. 


THE  HIGHLANDS.  659 

at  Sconser.  The  day  turned  out  wet,  and  there  was  no  place 
for  the  people  to  sit  with  any  degree  of  comfort,  but  on  the 
shingle  of  the  sea-shore  when  the  tide  was  out.  For  a  shelter 
and  pulpit  for  the  ministers,  oars  were  set  upon  end  and  a  sail 
thrown  over  them.  The  Rev.  Mr.  Macdonald  preached  with 
effect  to  an  eager  congregation,  and  we  then  wished  to  dismiss 
them,  but  they  would  not  go  away.  They  would  insist  on 
getting  another  sermon.  I  then  preached  ;  and,  after  a  time,  the 
tide  was  gaining  upon  us,  so  that  those  in  front  of  the  tent  had  to 
retire  by  degrees  to  the  sides.  Still  they  would  not  go  away, 
until  I  intimated  to  them  that  I  hoped  to  preach  next  day  in 
the  parish  church  at  Broadford,  some  eight  miles  off,  where  they 
might  go  and  hear  more.  This  intimation  spread  far,  and  next 
day  many  came  great  distances  to  hear ;  but,  unfortunately, 
the  parish  minister  would  not  give  the  use  of  the  church  on 
that  day,  but  offered  to  give  it  the  following  day,  and  word  to 
that  effect  was  sent  to  those  assembling.  We  were  much  dis- 
appointed as  well  as  they.  Among  them,  a  boatful  of  people 
came  from  Strathaird,  who  offered  to  take  us  to  see  the  stalactite 
cave  there  on  condition  that  we  would  afterwards  preach  in 
their  mission  church.  We  gladly  agreed,  and  set  off  with  them. 
After  a  time  we  landed  the  female  passengers,  who  ran  in 
various  directions,  intimating  that  there  would  be  sermon  at 
three  o'clock.  At  that  hour  the  little  church  was  crowded. 
After  sermon,  we  proceeded  to  the  boat  to  return  to  the  manse 
by  six  o'clock,  as  had  been  arranged  ;  but  the  whole  congrega- 
tion followed  us,  and  pled  so  earnestly  for  another  sermon, 
many  weeping  as  they  spoke,  that  I  agreed  to  remain,  and 
preached,  though  at  the  risk  of  offending  the  parish  minister, 
and  being  denied  the  use  of  the  church  next  day,  thereby  dis- 
appointing hundreds.  The  minister  was  highly  displeased,  and 
went  from  home  next  morning  without  seeing  me,  but  left  the 
key  of  the  church.  The  church  is  some  distance  from  the 
manse,  and,  on  arriving  at  it,  we  learned  that  a  large  congrega- 
tion had  assembled  on  the  previous  day,  when  we  had  gone  to 
Strathaird,  and,  though  disappointed  of  a  sermon,  they  returned 
this  day,  and  crowded  the  large  church.  During  the  sermon  it 
was  necessary  to  stop  twice,  and  sing  some  verses  of  a  psalm  to 


660  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

calm  their  excited  feelings,  so  impressible  were  their  minds  at 
that  time.  "What  ordinary  congregations  would  hear  with  com- 
posure affected  them  so  that  many  trembled,  others  wept  aloud, 
and  some  fainted.     It  was  altogether  a  striking  scene." 

In  1845,  Dr.  Begg  visited  Applecross  and  preached  to  the 
people.  "  We  were  little  prepared,"  he  says,  "  for  the  scene  we 
were  now  to  witness.  The  night  was  very  chilly,  and  when  we 
asked  where  the  people  were  to  meet  we  were  led  along  to  a 
place  on  the  very  shore,  amidst  the  stones  and  tangle  of  the 
sea-beach,  and  which  could  only  be  approached  by  clambering 
over  a  precipice.  Here  the  tent  [pulpit  ?]  was  erected,  and  old 
and  young  assembled  and  sat  without  a  murmur,  singing  the 
praises  of  God  in  these  singularly  wild  and  plaintive  notes 
which  melted  all  our  hearts  at  the  Inverness  Assembly,  and 
hearing  the  Gospel  preached  in  the  face  of  a  biting  wind,  and 
with  the  waves  of  the  Atlantic  dashing  at  their  feet.  I  question 
if  the  world,  at  this  moment,  can  match  such  scenes  as  these. 
It  seems  that  the  people — nearly  all  of  whom  left  the  Establish- 
ment— had,  at  first,  taken  their  station  at  the  roadside.  This 
was  reckoned  too  good  for  them,  and  they  were  driven  down  to 
the  place  to  which  I  have  referred."  "  A  more  noble  people," 
Dr.  Begg  states,  "  I  have  never  seen,  and  the  eagerness  with 
which  they  listened  to  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel  was  indeed 
remarkable.  We  were  particularly  struck  with  one  woman, 
who  told  us  that,  from  her  youth,  she  had  occasionally  walked 
fifty  miles  to  hear  the  Gospel.  '  Death,'  she  said,  emphatically, 
'  has  reigned  in  this  place  for  many  years.'  She  has  still  to 
walk  fifteen  miles  to  hear  the  Gospel ;  but,  since  the  Free 
Church  began,  she  walks  that  distance  most  cheerfully." 

"  We  announced  a  sermon  at  Shieldag  the  following  day,  a 
place  at  least  ten  miles  from  Applecross.  The  first  thing  I  saw 
when  I  looked  out  in  the  morning  was  people  starting  for  this 
sermon.  The  way  was  over  a  rough  mountain  without  a  road. 
We  performed  the  journey  on  foot,  and  it  was  no  easy  task  to 
climb  so  steep  a  hill,  and  to  leap  from  point  to  point,  over  such 
rude  stepping-stones.  ...  A  large  congregation  had  been 
waiting  for  two  hours,  but  this  is  thought  nothing  of  in  the 
Hishlands. 


THE  HIGHLANDS.  661 

"  Here  was  another  scene  like  that  at  Applecross.  The  tent 
(pulpit)  was  placed  amid  the  naked  rocks  on  the  sea-shore,  the 
sound  of  the  Psalms  literally  mingled  with  the  roar  of  the  waves 
of  the  Atlantic.  The  tent  was  fastened  down  with  strong  ropes 
to  prevent  its  being  upset,  and  there  were  grey-headed  men 
sitting  uncovered  in  the  cold, — and  several  of  them  with  tears 
streaming  down  their  cheeks,  whilst  Mr.  Glass  preached  to  them 
the  blessed  Gospel  in  their  native  tongue. 

"  Every  new  spectacle  I  witnessed  deepened  my  impression  of 
astonishment.  These  poor  Highlanders  must  face  all  the 
storms  of  winter  on  the  bare  sea-beach,  denied  a  single  inch  of 
land  on  which  to  erect  a  place  of  worship.  Such  a  state  of 
matters  in  Ireland  would  shake  the  empire,  and  it  is  Christian 
principle  alone  which  has  borne  it  so  meekly.  We  were 
told  by  the  catechist,  a  worthy  and  somewhat  picturesque- 
looking  man,  called  in  Gaelic  '  White  John,*  that  there  had 
lately  been  a  revival  of  vital  godliness  in  this  district,  especially 
amongst  the  young,  and  produced  by  the  simple  instrumentality 
of  reading  the  Word  of  God ;  and  the  whole  aspect  of  the 
congregation  bore  evident  marks  of  the  power  of  the  Spirit 
of  God."* 

Three  years  after  this  visit  the  people  of  Applecross  had 
obtained  a  site ;  and,  certainly,  their  anxiety  to  listen  to  the 
preaching  of  God's  Word  had  not  diminished — assembling,  as 
they  continued  to  do,  from  distances  of  from  twelve  to 
eighteen  miles.  "During  my  stay  there,"  a  minister  who 
preached  to  them  reports,  "  the  weather  was  very  wet,  so  much 
so,  that  I  often  observed,  after  sermon,  females  rising  from  the 
stones  on  which  they  sat,  wringing  the  water  out  of  their  clothes 
before  starting.  But  no  weather,  however  unfavourable,  could 
keep  these  people  back  from  ordinances.  Indeed,  I  never  saw 
people  more  eagerly  desirous  to  hear.  Nor  have  I  met  with 
any  who  seem  more  determined  in  their  attachment  to  the  Free 
Church,  though  the  difficulties  which  they  had  long  to  contend 
with  were  many  and  trying. 

"  They  are  getting  on  but  slowly  with  the  building  of  their 
church,  owing  to  the  difficulty  of  carrying  materials.  I  dare- 
*  Free  Church  Mag.  ii.  370-71, 


662  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION, 

say  you  are  aware  of  one  striking  peculiarity  in  the  economy  of 
this  district.  There  are  no  horses  in  it.  In  consequence  of 
this,  both  men  and  woman  carry  the  stones  on  hand-barrows 
and  on  their  backs.  The  women  are  at  heart  as  active  and 
hearty  as  the  men  in  carrying  the  materials.  If  the  weather 
continue  open,  they  may  be  under  shelter  by  the  middle  of 
December,"  * 

"  Last  winter,"  one  of  the  catechists  in  another  district 
reports,  "  it  was  with  my  plaid  I  kept  the  snow  off  my  Bible 
while  I  was  preaching  to  the  people  in  the  open  air."  -f- 

The  earnestness  with  which  the  simple-minded  hearers 
"received  the  Word"  was  sometimes  touchingly  expressed.  "I 
inquired  in  one  place  at  a  woman  whether  a  minister  of  the 
Free  Church  had  not  been  present  here  last  year,  when  I  was 
informed  that  there  had,  and  that  he  preached  in  a  tent  (pulpit) 
made  up  of  a  few  sticks  and  a  blanket.  *  Yes,'  she  said,  '  and 
many  is  the  day  that  I  have  gone  since,  to  recollect  myself  of 
what  he  was  telling  us,  by  standing  in  the  place  where  the  soles 
of  his  feet  stood.' "J 

Such  extracts  might  be  multiplied,  but  it  is  enough  to  give 
the  experience  of  Dr.  Mackay,  at  a  Highland  communion  in  the 
spring  of  1848,  as  showing  the  eagerness  of  the  people, 

A  congregation  of  6000 — some  said  7000 — had  assembled, 
many  of  them  having  come  from  a  distance  of  twenty-five  or 
thirty  miles,  on  one  of  the  coldest  April  days,  and  amidst  one 
of  the  bitterest  showers  of  snow.  Beginning  at  eleven  o'clock, 
he  was  able  to  continue  the  service  till  seven  o'clock  in  the 
evening,  when  he  dismissed  the  congregation,  feeling  himself 
"  rather  fatigued."  "To  my  astonishment  I  learned,"  he  says, 
"  that  after  my  departure  the  congregational  services  were  con- 
tinued till  past  twelve  o'clock  at  night."  §  There  was  surely 
something  more  than  Scottish  earnestness  and  endurance  in 
this ! 

It  may  well  be  believed  that  such  hungering  and  tliirsting  for 
the  Word  of  God  would  not  fail  to  be  followed  by  spiritual 
blessings. 

*  Missionary  Record,  March,  1848,  p.  357.  %  Ibid.,  1848,  p.  240. 

t  Blue  Book,  1848,  p.  232.  §  Ibid. 


THE  HIGHLANDS.  663 

In  May,  1844,  Mr.  Macrae  tells  how  he  visited  and  preached 
in  the  district  of  Lochcarron,  and  the  marked  effects  of  the 
preaching.  Old  and  young  were  brought  under  the  power  of 
the  truth.  It  was  felt  almost  universally  that  the  way  of  justi- 
fication freely  by  grace  is  the  only  way  through  which  a  guilty 
creature  can  escape  the  wrath  of  the  righteous  Judge.  For 
the  last  fourteen  months  the  good  work  has  been  making 
progress.  A  goodly  number  are  feeding  on  Christ,  the  Bread  of 
Life,  while  many  others  are  standing  with  awakened  con- 
sciences and  humbled  hearts  anxiously  seeking  an  interest  in 
Christ.* 

The  following  year,  the  Eev.  Mr.  M'Bride  of  Eothesay  gave 
an  account  of  the  revival  of  religion  in  Knapdale.  The 
awakening  had  been  most  remarkable  and  unexpected.  From 
early  winter  till  May  he  had  gone  down  weekly,  and  the  impres- 
sion made  at  first  had  continued.  Every  new  visit  he  paid  he 
heard  of  new  cases  of  awakening,  and  that  among  some  who 
had  scoffed  at  the  beginning.  Between  200  and  800  had  been 
brought  under  serious  religious  impressions ;  of  these  a  portion 
had  found  peace  in  Christ.  There  had  been  no  going  back 
— rather  it  was  found  that  some  who  were  doubtful  at  first  got 
more  decided.  There  had  been  outcries  and  bodily  agitation; 
but  these  were  not  the  leading  features.  There  was  weeping, 
however,  to  an  extent  he  had  never  witnessed.  They  readily 
acknowledged  that  the  cause  of  this  was  sin.  He  was  happy  to 
say  that  their  religious  characters  were  emerging  beautifully. 
There  was  a  humbleness,  a  self-abasement,  a  love  of  the  Saviour, 
and  devotedness  to  the  glory  of  God,  which  it  was  delightful 
to  witness.  The  people  were  altogether  free  from  extravagance. 
The  only  means  he  used  was  the  open  preaching  of  the  Gospel. 
He  regarded  what  had  occurred  as  a  token  of  encouragement — 
a  proof  that  the  Lord  had  not  forsaken  his  people. -f- 

It  was  at  no  slight  cost,  however,  that  such  work  was  carried 
on.  Dr.  Elder,  who  succeeded  Mr.  M'Bride  in  his  charge  at 
Rothesay,  referring  to  the  circumstances  just  mentioned,  goes  on 
to  say  that  "undoubtedly  he  (Mr.   M'Bride)   fell  a  sacrifice, 

*  Blue  Book,  1844,  p.  199. 
t  Ibid.,  1845,  pp.  101,  102. 


664  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

while  yet  in  the  prime  of  life,  to  his  great  labours  throughout 
the  West  Highlands  at  and  after  the  Disruption.  It  is,  how- 
ever, a  cheering  reflection  that  his  labour  was  not  in  vain  in  the 
Lord.  There  are  good  grounds  for  believing  that  many  souls 
were  quickened  and  brought  to  the  Saviour  under  his  earnest 
and  widely  extended  labours."  * 

The  island  of  Mull  may  be  taken  as  an  example  of  how  the 
work  went  on  even  under  circumstances  the  most  adverse. 
Before  the  Disruption  the  ministers  all  belonged  to  the  Moderate 
party,  and  remained  in  the  Establishment.  There  was  a  general 
state  of  spiritual  deadness  ;  and  out  of  a  population  of  10,000, 
only  a  few  joined  the  Free  Church.  In  Torosay,  as  we  saw, — the 
most  sorely  tried  congregation  in  the  island, — they  had  to  wor- 
ship in  a  gravel  pit  under  high  water  mark,  and  there  they  were 
still  meeting  in  1848.  "  Hearts,  however,  have  been  warmed  by 
the  love  of  Christ  in  the  cold  gravel  pit  which  now  acknowledge 
Him  as  their  only  Lord ;  there  are  members  of  this  congrega- 
tion of  whom  the  world  is  not  worthy." -j-  At  the  same  time 
congregations  were  formed  at  three  or  four  other  points  in  the 
island.  "  In  1857,  Mr.  Sinclair,  of  Lochalsh,  dispenses  the  com- 
munion at  Torosay.  Great  changes  have  taken  place.  Instead 
of  the  gravel  pit,  there  is  a  neat,  substantial,  and  well-finished, 
little  church,  with  a  vestry  and  belfry,  within  a  few  yards  of  the 
pit,  built  almost  entirely  by  funds  left  for  that  purpose  by  the 
late  Mrs.  Campbell,  of  Possil,  the  niece  and  daughter-in-law  of 
the  gentleman  who  formerly  declined  giving  a  site.  In  that 
church  the  bulk  of  the  piety  and  intelligence  of  the  district 
assemble  for  worship."  J 

Of  the  religious  awakenings  which  took  place  at  Islay,  Coll, 
and  elsewhere,  it  is  not  for  us  here  to  speak.  Enough  has  been 
said  to  show  the  spirit  in  which  Free  Church  ministers  threw 
themselves  into  this  work  among  our  Highland  population,  and 
the  results  which  followed  their  efforts.  Already,  in  1844,  the 
committee  state  their  conviction  that  the  great  Lord  of  the 
Vineyard  has  been  in  several  districts,  signally  crowning  the 

*  Disr.  Mss.  Ixxi.  p.  18. 

t  Bine  Book,  1848,  pp.  241,  242. 

X  Missionary  Record,  1857,  p.  210. 


THE  HIGHLANDS.  665 

labour  of  our  ministers,  and  blessing  the  means  of  grace  for 
gathering  sinners  to  Himself.* 

In  yet  stronger  terms,  Dr.  Mackay,  who  well  knew  the  High- 
lands, and  their  religious  history,  summed  up  the  results: — "I  feel 
the  strongest  conviction  that  never  since  thefirstlightof  the  Refor- 
mation dawned  on  the  land  of  our  fathers,  has  there  been  such 
a  universal  religious  movement  over  the  whole  of  the  Highlands 
and  islands  as  there  is  at  this  day.  There,  at  this  moment,  we 
have  presented  to  view  a  spiritual  realisation  of  the  prophet's 
vision  of  the  valley — there  is  a  moving  and  a  shaking  of  the 
dry  bones,  and  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  evidently  going  forth  to 
work  a  work  which  shall  be  great  in  our  day,  and  the  effects  of 
which  eternity  itself  alone  will  unfold." 

*  Blue  Book,  1844,  p.  199. 


6({5  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 


LII.  "The  Men." 

To  understand  the  effect  of  the  Disruption  in  the  Highlands,  it 
is  necessary  to  take  into  account  a  peculiar  class  of  the  people 
known  as  "  The  Men."  They  belonged,  for  the  most  part,  to  the 
working  classes,  and  were  frequently  to  be  seen  wearing  a  dis- 
tinctive dress  as  a  badge  of  their  order — a  long  blue  cloak,  with 
a  spotted  cotton  handkerchief  bound  round  the  head.  Many 
of  them  were  men  of  superior  natural  abilities,  though  with  little 
education  ;  but,  having  carefully  studied  the  Bible,  along  with 
certain  favourite  Puritan  authors,  and  having  a  high  reputation 
for  personal  religion,  they  wielded,  in  some  localities,  a  pre- 
dominant influence  over  the  popular  mind.  In  the  South  of 
Scotland  their  position  has  often  been  misunderstood  and  mis- 
represented, but  what  chiefly  concerns  us  here  is  the  part  which 
they  took  at  and  after  the  Disruption. 

Two  parties,  it  appears,  had  arisen  in  their  ranks,  widely 
different  in  spirit  and  aims,  and  serious  mistakes  have  some- 
times been  made  in  attributing  to  the  whole  body  what  was 
true  only  of  the  less  numerous  and  more  unsatisfactory  of  the 
two  sections. 

The  better  class — the  more  devout  and  earnest — were  spoken 
of  by  Dr.  Candlish  in  terms  of  high  commendation.  "Un- 
authorised they  might  be  of  men,  but  the  Head  of  the  Church 
had  owned  and  blessed  their  labours  ...  all  the  more  because 
they  have  known  their  place  in  the  Church, — have  intruded 
into  no  office,  labouring,  as  God  gave  them  opportunity,  in 
reading  and  expounding.  They  have  heartily  co-operated  with 
the  ministers  whom  they  esteemed,  not  weakening  but  strength- 
ening their  hands."* 

*  Blue  Book,  Inverness,  1845,  p.  113. 


"  THE  MEN."  667 

It  was  in  connection  with  the  Lord's  Supper  that  "  The  Men  " 
came  prominently  into  view — those  "sacramental  occasions" 
which,  all  over  the  Highlands,  were  the  great  events  of  the 
year.  Usually,  in  each  parish,  when  the  time  came  round,  there 
were  four  or  five  ministers  who  met  to  give  assistance.  They 
lived  together  in  the  manse,  enjoying  much  profitable  ministerial 
intercourse,  discussing  any  questions  which  might  affect  the 
cause  of  true  religion  at  the  time,  and  comparing' notes  as  to 
the  spiritual  state  of  their  various  congregations.  Among  the 
people  the  greatest  interest  was  excited,  gathering  as  they  did 
in  crowds  from  wide  districts  of  the  country,  and  remaining  for 
days  together  in  attendance  on  the  ordinances  of  the  Church. 

Of  aU  these  gatherings  the  most  remarkable  was  the  annual 
communion  at  Ferintosh  (Urquhart),  under  the  ministry  of  Dr. 
M'Donald,  where  ten  thousand  hearers  were  wont  to  assemble 
in  the  glen.  When  the  vast  audience  were  seen  hanging  on 
the  lips  of  the  greatest  preacher  in  the  north,  and  fairly  moved 
by  his  stirring  appeals,  the  whole  scene  was  such  as  no  one  who 
witnessed  it  was  ever  likely  to  forget.*  As  an  example,  how- 
ever, of  what  was  more  frequently  to  be  met  with,  we  may  take 
one  of  later  date — the  communion  at  Snizort,  in  Skye,  presided 
over  by  the  well-known  Rev.  Roderick  M'Leod.  On  the  occasion 
referred  to,  he  had  as  his  assistants  the  Rev.  Dr.  Mackintosh  Mac- 
kay  of  Harris,  Mr.  M'Phail  of  Sleat,  Mr.  Kippen  of  Raasay,  and 
Mr.Gualter  of  Hawick.  On  the  Fast-day — 16th  July — the  people 
assembled  "  long  before  the  hour  of  worship  "  to  unite  in  prayer 
for  a  blessing  on  "  the  Word  and  ordinances."  The  opening 
services  were  conducted  by  Mr.  M'Leod  in  Gaelic,  after  which 
Mr.  Gualter  preached  in  English,  and  Mr.  Kippen  followed  in 
Gaelic,  the  whole  service  lasting  four  and  a-half  hours. 

The  meeting  on  Friday,  however,  which  is  conducted  in  Gaelic, 
and  in  which  "  The  Men"  take  a  prominent  part,  forms  the  great 
distinctive  feature  of  a  Highland  communion.  The  object  is  to 
assist  intending  communicants  in  the  duty  of  self-examination, 
the  speakers  endeavouring  to  point  out  the  marks  which  dis- 
tinguish the  true  Christian  from  the  mere  professor  or  hypocrite. 
So  much  is  this  kind  of  religious  conference  relished  by  the 
*  Life,  by  Dr.  Kennedy,  p.  79. 


668  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

people  that  the  Friday  meeting — "  The  Men's  day  " — is  usually 
very  largely  attended. 

On  the  occasion  referred  to  at  Snizort,  the  church,  which 
holds  1200  people,  was  quite  full.  The  minister,  the  Rev.  R. 
M'Leod,  presided,  and  opened  the  meeting  with  praise,  prayer, 
and  a  short  exposition.  He  then  asked  the  brethren  for  "  a 
question,"  when  an  aged  and  respected  elder  rose  and  gave 
Eph.  V.  8, — "  Ye  were  sometimes  darkness,  hut  now  are  ye  light 
in  the  Lord ;  walk  as  children  of  the  light."  He  asked  the 
marks  of  those  who  are  light  and  walk  as  children  of  light, 
distinguishing  them  from  those  who  are  still  in  darkness.  Mr. 
M'Leod  then  stated  and  opened  the  question,  telling  the  people 
that  it  was  most  suitable  for  a  day  of  self-examination  and 
preparation  for  the  Lord's  table.  He  then  called  in  turn  upon 
six  or  eight  elders,  men  of  approved  Christian  character,  to 
speak  on  the  question.  This  they  did  with  a  wisdom  and  a 
power  of  discrimination  between  truth  and  error  that  gave 
evidence,  not  only  of  an  intimate  and  experimental  acquaintance 
with  the  truth  as  it  is  in  Jesus,  but  also  of  a  clear  and  sound 
knowledge  of  the  doctrines  of  the  faith  and  the  writings  of  such 
eminent  divines  as  Owen  and  Boston,  The  addresses  were 
occasionally  intermingled  with  praise  and  prayer ;  and  the 
whole  was  ably  summed  up  and  improved  in  a  few  closing 
remarks  from  Dr.  Mackay.* 

Sometimes  these  Friday  gatherings  were  held  in  the  open  air, 
and  the  following  vivid  sketch  from  the  graphic  pen  of  the  Rev. 
Eric  Findlater  (Lochearnhead)  will  enable  the  reader  to  picture 
the  scenes  which  were  witnessed  on  such  occasions.  He  is 
describing  the  meeting  in  his  father's  parish  of  Duirness, 
Sutherlandshire,  as  it  used  to  be  before  the  Disruption,  and 
as  it  continued  to  be  afterwards,  with  a  change  of  place  to  the 
Free  Church : — 

"  The  old  parish  church  of  Duirness  stands  on  a  very  pictur- 
esque spot.  It  is  an  ancient  cross-shaped  building,  roofed  with 
grey  slate,  and  surrounded  by  the  churchyard  or  burying-ground, 
which  is  thickly  studded  with  graves  and  grave-stones,  and  over- 
looked by  an  ancient  manor  house,  once  the  dwelling  of  the  Barons 
*  Miss.  Record,  1863,  pp.  351,  352. 


"  THE  MEN.  669 

of  Eeay,  It  is  a  July  day,  bright  and  warm  and  beautiful,  and 
Balnakeel  with  its  wide  bay  is  seen  to  the  best  advantage.  On 
the  shore  everything  is  green  as  an  emerald — the  wild  flowers 
in  full  blow.  If  you  look  seaward  you  could  perceive  the  white 
ships  of  various  sizes,  some  under  a  full  press  of  sail,  standing 
out  for  the  wide  Atlantic,  carrying  perhaps  to  our  distant 
colonies  those  who  are  now  casting  a  last  fond  look  on  the  bold 
coast  of  their  native  Scotland — others  lying  to,  fishing  among 
the  shoals  of  cod  that  frequent  the  coast.  If  you  turn  your  eye 
landward  there  is  a  range  of  hills — some  of  them  upwards  of 
8000  feet  in  height — encircling  the  parish  and  standing  as  its 
giant  guardians.  In  the  churchyard,  with  its  back  to  an  old 
monument,  stands  the  tent  (pulpit),  and  before  it  are  stones, 
stools,  and  various  kinds  of  seats  for  the  people.  Shortly  after 
ten  o'clock  they  may  be  observed  making  their  appearance 
in  twos  and  threes,  generally  the  old  and  those  from  other 
parishes  coming  first  to  the  place  of  meeting,  and  by-and-by 
these  tiny  streams,  by  accessions  at  every  point,  soon  increase 
until  at  the  two  gates  of  the  churchyard  they  flow  in  like  a 
river.  And  you  could  observe  the  solemnity  that  spread  itself 
over  them  all.  This  is  not  like  an  ordinary  assemblage.  The 
step,  even  of  the  elastic  young,  is  slower  and  more  staid,  and  all 
neither  converse  so  much  nor  in  so  loud  a  tone  as  on  other 
occasions.  '  The  Men ' — i.e.,  those  of  an  established  religious 
character — are  evidently,  though  unconsciously,  the  teachers ;  for 
as  one  or  two  of  them  walk  slowly  together — first,  young 
inquirers  might  be  seen  at  their  side,  silent  auditors  of  the 
words  falling  from  their  lips  ;  and  next,  the  young  and  the 
thoughtless,  by  their  proximity  to  such  characters,  subduing 
much  of  their  thoughtlessness.  At  length  the  bell  in  the  old 
belfry  announces  that  the  clergymen  are  at  hand,  at  the 
hearing  of  which  such  as  may  have  previously  been  conversing 
or  standing  in  groups  become  silent  and  betake  themselves  to 
a  seat — some  sitting  upon  the  grave-stones  and  others  upon  the 
graves,  with  a  part  of  their  plaids  under  them,  and  the  re- 
mainder drawn  over  their  face  to  screen  them  from  the  sun. 
The  bell  tolls  again,  and  the  ministers  enter  the  tent  (pulpit), 
threading  their  way  cautiously,  each  hat  in  hand,  through  the 


670  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

lane  of  human,  beings  before  them.  The  oldest  minister  rises 
and  gives  out  a  portion  of  a  psalm,  in  the  singing  of  which  all 
join.  He  then  oflfers  up  an  impressive  and  suitable  prayer. 
After  a  short  pause  he  again  gets  up,  and  briefly  alluding  to 
the  well-known  services  of  that  day  being  one  set  apart  for 
Christian  conference,  he  asks  if  any  of  the  people  of  God  then 
present  have  a  portion  of  Scripture  upon  which  they  would  like 
to  get  the  opinion  of  their  fellow-Christians.  Sometimes  there 
is  a  considerable  pause,  while  the  silence  is  such  that  you  could 
hear  the  twittering  of  the  sparrow  that  sits  upon  the  church 
roof — all  eyes  however  are  anxiously  looking  round.  At  length 
some  Christian  gets  up  and  mentions  some  passage — such  as, 
'Blessed  are  they  that  hunger  and  thirst  after  righteousness, 
&c.,'  and  wishing  to  have  the  Scriptural  marks  of  such.  Thus, 
then,  the  question  is  fairly  launched.  The  presiding  minister 
having  turned  up  the  passage,  announces  it  again  to  the  people, 
and  opens  it  by  making  a  few  pertinent  remarks  as  an  intro- 
duction, and  indicating  the  line  of  discussion  which  it  is 
expected  will  be  followed.  He  then  calls  upon  such  and  such 
a  man — some  Christian  from  a  neighbouring  parish — to  rise  and 
give  his  opinion  on  the  subject.  This  he  generally  at  the  first 
request  refuses,  but  being  told  that  he  is  setting  a  bad  example 
for  the  day,  he  agrees ;  and  having  smoothed  down  his  hair, 
adjusted  his  mantle  or  plaid,  and  taking  his  staff,  he  gets  up, 
looks  round,  professes  his  own  unsuitableness  for  the  service, 
but  gives  what  he  thinks  are  true  marks — generally  from  his 
own  experience — and  to  this  it  is  owing  that  there  is  generally 
so  little  hesitation  in  these  extempore  effusions.  It  is  not  theo- 
retical but  practical  Divinity  that  is  given  forth,  and  that  with 
an  unction  and  a  pathos  that  clearly  shows  they  have  not  learned 
from  books,  but  that  they  speak  as  they  believe,  and  because 
they  believe  they  have  been  taught  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

"  A  word  in  regard  to  the  audience.  It  might  amount  to 
upwards  of  1000,  and  of  all  ages.  There  might  be  seen  an  occa- 
sional sheep  farmer,  if  a  native  of  the  district,  but  never  a  factor. 
There  might  also  be  seen  the  old  and  hardened  in  sin  and  the 
thoughtless  youth ;  in  short,  the  various  elements  of  which  an 
ordinary  congregation  is  composed.     As  the  speakers  seldom 


"  THE  MEN."  671 

exceeded  a  quarter  of  an  hour  each,  there  was  no  occasion  for  the 
attention  to  flag,  and  the  variety  kept  it  up  during  the  whole 
time,  which  was  from  three  to  five  hours  according  to  circum- 
stances. .  .  . 

"  If  you  will  not  be  fatigued,  I  will  continue  my  sketch  :  and 
here  let  me  remind  you  that  the  individuals  I  mention  are  no 
fanciful  creation,  and  that  I  give  their  real  names,  and,  so  far 
as  I  am  able,  their  real  characters.  Many  of  them;  alas !  have 
gone  to  join  the  general  assembly  on  high,  but  there  are  some  of 
them  still  [1858]  living.  '  Is  Niel  Bain  from  Assynt  here?'  asks 
the  moderator,  as  he  scans  the  faces  of  the  congregation ;  all  eyes 
instinctively  are  pointed  to  the  spot  where  the  worthy  man  is 
seated.  Then,  assured  by  this  that  he  is,  he  says,  '  Niel,  will 
you  speak  to  the  question?'  The  individual  thus  appealed  to 
unhesitatingly  gets  up — for  he  is  a  man  in  whose  very  counten- 
ance there  is  exemplified  that  '  perfect  love  which  casteth  out 
fear.'  He  is  an  aged  man  with  a  head  bald  on  the  top  but 
encircled  with  a  wreath  of  silvery  hair.  His  eye  is  blue,  his 
face  round,  his  complexion  clear,  and  a  beautiful  smile  lights 
up  not  only  his  mouth  but  his  countenance.  He  is  dressed  in 
a  blue  coat  with  gilt  buttons,  and  in  corduroy  shorts,  and  over 
all  is  thrown  a  blue  cloth  mantle  with  a  deep  cape.  He  has 
no  difficulty  in  speaking  to  the  question — he  speaks  con  amove 
— not  for  the  love  of  speaking,  but  from  his  love  to  the  subject 
which  is  treated  of.  I  could  not  in  those  years  resist  a  tend- 
ency I  felt  to  associate  the  personal  appearance  of  such  '  Men' 
with  some  of  the  Scripture  characters,  and  worthy  Niel  Bain 
was  to  my  imagination  the  beau  ideal  of  the  apostle  John — 
the  loving  disciple.  What  he  spoke  had  a  wonderfully  telling 
influence,  for  you  felt  he  did  not  speak  about  the  truth — he 
gave  forth  that  which  had  permeated  the  faculties  of  his  own 
soul. 

"  If  Niel  was  the  personification  of  the  apostle  John — the  next 
who  gets  up,  Angus  Calder,  is  a  very  different  person.  He  had 
what  you  would  conceive  as  having  been  the  look  of  Ezekiel. 
He  was  a  tall  dark-complexioned  man,  with  a  countenance 
which  seemed  as  if  cast  in  bronze,  a  sharp  black  eye  deeply  set 
in  the  head  and  surmounted  by  shaggy  eyebrows.     His  hair 


672  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

was  long  and  dark- brown,  and  he  wore  a  greatcoat  made  of 
homespun  cloth.  His  look  was  downcast,  his  voice  was  deep 
but  not  harsh,  and  though  he  knew  the  greatest  of  all  the 
graces,  like  the  individual  who  preceded  him,  he  did  not  choose 
to  follow  this  path.  He  took  a  deeper  and  darker  one,  and  had  a 
sortof  morbid  delight  in  revisiting  the  Slough  of  Despond,  in  again 
unmasking  the  hypocrites  he  had  met  with  in  his  journey,  or  in 
threading  again  the  labyrinth  out  of  whose  miry  clay  his  own 
feet  had  been  extricated ;  you  felt  that  before  you  stood  one 
who  had  deep  experience  in  the  Christian  warfare. 

"Who  is  that  man  who  has  just  concluded  that  remarkable 
prayer  towards  the  middle  of  the  service  ?  His  name  is  Andrew 
Ross.  He  is  a  native  of  Eoss-shire,  but  has  been  residing  in 
the  parish  of  Tongue  during  the  greater  part  of  his  long  life. 
As  you  may  perceive,  his  outward  man  is  now  failing ;  but  the 
inward  is  growing  day  by  day.  The  shock  of  corn  is  fully 
ripe,  and  may  at  any  time  be  brought  to  the  garner  above. 
He  is  one  of  the  most  spiritually  minded  men  in  the  north. 
Did  you  not  observe  the  extraordinary  nearness  of  access  which 
he  had  to  God  in  that  prayer  which  he  has  just  offered  up,  and 
the  peculiar  expression  he  made  use  of  in  addressing  the 
Almighty  ? — '  Everlasting  Love  ' — and  as  often  as  the  word 
escaped  his  lips  the  whole  physical  frame  became  agitated, 
his  voice  became  choked,  and  his  eyes  rained  down  tears ; 
but  they  were  not  the  tears  of  remorse,  but  those  of  over- 
powering love.  He  is  one  whose  spirit  longs  to  be  with 
Christ,  which  is  far  better — its  very  workings  after  emancipation 
will  soon  loose  the  pins  of  the  frail  tabernacle,  and  the  soul  of 
the  man  who  stands  before  you  will  then  find  itself  at  rest  and 
at  home. 

"George  Campbell,  a  Gaelic  schoolmaster,  and  a  native  of 
Sutherland,  renews  the  discussion.  He  is  a  man  about  sixty, 
dressed  in  a  camlet  cloak,  and  with  a  head  of  long  steel-grey 
hair,  parted  in  the  midst,  and  falling  down  in  a  mass  behind. 
His  features  are  well  proportioned,  and  a  quick  intelligence 
courses  over  them  as  the  aurora  borealis  does  across  his  native 
sky.  He  is  one  of  nature's  orators  ;  and  so  well  toned  was  his 
voice,  so  harmonious  his  periods,  and  so  graceful  his  action,  that 


"  THE  MEN.  673 

it  was  like  music  to  the  ear.  But  all  this  was  sanctified  ;  and 
as  he  discourseth  of  what  the  Lord  had  done  for  his  soul,  they 
wouLl  be  indifferent  indeed  who  could  do  else  than  listen ;  and 
though  in  general  he  showed  the  harmlessness  of  the  dove,  there 
were  occasions  when  he  could  testify  that  he  had  the  spirit 
of  the  lion.  If  he  had  but  occasion  to  allude  to  'Eadical' 
[Separatist]  principles,  his  denunciation  of  them  had  something 
tremendous  about  it.  Our  testimony  to  him  would  infer  that 
he  was  a  man  who  knew  divinity  not  only  experimentally  but 
systematically."  * 

Such  were  the  Friday  meetings  and  the  men  by  whom  they 
were  conducted.  The  object  was  to  prepare  the  minds  of  the 
people  for  engaging  with  benefit  to  themselves  in  the  services 
which  followed.  Of  the  Communion  Sabbath  itself,  and  its 
peculiar  solemnity,  we  give  as  an  example  what  took  place  at 
Snizort : — 

"  In  the  kind  providence  of  God,  a  bright,  sunny  day  dawned  ; 
and  though  the  wind  was  cold,  and  clouds  began  to  appear,  it 
was  pronounced  to  be  favourable  for  out-door  services.  At  an 
early  hour  the  people  began  to  assemble ;  along  the  roads  and 
by-ways,  over  hill  and  moor,  they  were  seen  flocking  in  com- 
panies to  the  house  of  God.  It  was  a  scene  of  thrilling  interest, 
fitted  to  call  forth  the  joyful  admiration  of  every  pious  heart,  to 
see  so  many  thronging  the  roads  for  mUes — coming  up,  like 
Israel's  ancient  tribes,  to  worship  God;  and  the  sight  of  the 
people  at  once  suggested  David's  thought  as  the  feeling  of  many 
that  morning :  '  I  was  glad  when  they  said  unto  me,  Let  us  go 
into  the  house  of  the  Lord,'  It  is  supposed  that  nearly  3000 
people  assembled  together  from  all  parts  of  Skye  and  the 
neighbouring  isles.  The  audience  would  even  have  been  much 
larger,  but  a  great  many  of  the  men  and  some  of  the  women 
were  away  from  the  island  at  the  time,  working  at  the 
fisheries  or  railways.  Eound  the  spot  where  the  field- 
preaching  was  held,  the  fields  and  roads  were  lined 
with  horses  and  ponies,  gigs,  carts,  and  vehicles  of  every 
description,  which  were  used  in  conveying  the  people  from  a 
distance.     Others,  again,  came  in  boats,  which  were  lying  at 

*  Disr.  Mss.  Ivi. 

2X 


674  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

anchor  in  the  neighbouring  bay.  The  scene  presented  at  the 
field-preaching  was  most  impressive ;  one  cannot  imagine  a 
finer  subject  for  a  painter's  pencil  or  a  poet's  pen. 

"  The  tent  in  which  the  minister  stood  was  pitched  at  the 
foot  of  a  sloping  hill,  gradually  rising  in  an  undulating  form 
.  till  it  terminated  in  a  heathery  knoll.  On  a  smooth  sward,  in 
front  of  the  tent,  the  table,  covered  with  clean  white  linen,  was 
prepared:  The  whole  face  of  the  little  hill  was  clothed  with 
people,  some  lying  on  the  green  grass  and  on  the  slopes  of  the 
hill,  others  sitting  on  pieces  of  rock,  or  stools  provided  for  the 
occasion.  Kound  the  outskirts  of  the  crowd  lay  the  little 
children  and  younger  portion  of  the  audience,  who  had  come  to 
witness  the  solemn  scene.  Within  this  circle  lay  the  older 
portion  of  the  people,  while  nearer  to  the  tent,  and  close  to  the 
communion-table,  sat  the  catechists  and  elders.  The  Kev. 
Eoderick  Macleod  preached  to  this  large  and  interesting  con- 
gregation from  the  appropriate  words  in  Ps.  xl.  6-8.  And 
during  the  time  that  the  venerable  Moderator  was  engaged  in 
this  Gaelic  service,  the  Eev.  Mr.  Gualter  was  conducting  the 
English  service  in  the  church  to  a  smaller  audience,  consisting 
of  those  families  in  the  neighbourhood  who  spoke  the  English 
language,  and  of  strangers  from  Edinburgh  and  Glasgow,  and 
other  parts  of  the  mainland,  who  had  come  to  spend  a  few 
weeks  in  this  beautiful  island. 

"  At  the  conclusion  of  the  service  the  English  congregation 
left  the  church  and  joined  the  Gaelic  congregation  in  the  fields. 
Just  as  they  approached,  the  invitation  to  come  forward  to  the 
first  Gaelic  communion-table  was  being  issued.  After  a  few 
minutes'  profound  silence,  a  venerable  old  man  wrapped  in  a 
shepherd's  plaid  came  slowly  forward  and  took  his  seat ;  soon 
after  he  was  followed  by  others,  who  advanced  to  the  table  in 
the  same  slow  and  reveren*^ial  manner,  till  it  was  filled  with 
about  forty  communicants.  And  when  seated,  there  was  no 
staring  about,  nor  appearance  of  thoughtlessness ;  but  each 
head,  wrapped  in  a  mantle  or  piaid,  was  bent  in  solemn  reverence, 
as  if  engaged  in  heavenly  communion  with  Him  whose  death 
they  were  met  to  commemorate.  The  second  table  was  served 
in  English ;  and  after  this  three  other  tables  were  administered 


"  THE  MEN.  675 

in  Gaelic.  The  whole  services,  which  lasted  about  seven  hours 
and  a-half,  were  brought  to  a  close  by  an  earnest  and  impressive 
address  by  the  Rev.  Dr.  Mackay.  The  immense  audience  then 
slowly  dispersed  ;  some  returning  to  their  homes,  others  to  quiet 
retreats  on  the  hill-sides  to  pray,  while  many  others  retired  to 
the  church,  where  a  prayer  meeting  was  conducted  by  the 
elders  for  other  two  hours."  * 

The  better  class  of  "  The  Men " — as  distinguished  from 
the  extreme  party  —  without  exception  joined  the  Free 
Church.  From  his  personal  experience,  Hugh  Miller  speaks  of 
them  in  the  highest  terms  :  "  We  think  we  must  know  nearly 
as  much  about  '  The  Men  '  of  the  North  as  any  one  else.  We 
have  resided  in  districts  in  which  they  were  comparatively 
numerous ;  we  saw  in  early  life  our  first  parish  minister  (a 
good  and  wise  man,  who  knew  their  value)  surrounded  by  a 
session  almost  exclusively  composed  of  them;  at  an  after  period 
we  were  tolerably  intimate  with  a  few  very  noble  specimens  of 
the  class." -f- 

Others  who  are  not  identified  with  the  Free  Church  have  borne 
testimony  not  less  decided.  Professor  Blackie,  after  full  inquiry, 
records  his  opinion  that  they  were  "  thoughtful  and  serious 
Highland  peasants,  deeply  impressed  with  the  importance  of 
religious  and  moral  truth,"  whose  object  was  to  stir  up  the 
people  to  "  a  loving  consciousness  and  a  consistent  practice  of 
the  Christian  faith  which  they  professed."]: 

A  minister  of  the  Established  Church,  while  fuUy  alive  to 
certain  drawbacks  connected  with  the  Friday  meetings,  yet 
gives  it  as  his  opinion  that  the  general  results  were  highly 
beneficial :  "  I  learned  from  the  speakers  the  best  notes  and 
sayings  of  the  most  noted  divines  in  the  country,  and  it  was 
always  the  sayings  of  most  pith  and  significance  that  obtained 
currency  among  the  people.  I  may  say  that  I  got  much  more 
of  real  divinity  from  '  The  Men '  than  ever  I  got  at  the  Divinity 
Hall." 

It  is  right,  however,  that  some  account  should  be  given  of 

*  Miss.  Record,  1863,  p.  353. 
t   Witness,  8th  November,  1851. 
t  Altavona,  i>.  332. 


676  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

that  class  of  "  The  Men  " — the  extreme  section — who  absented 
themselves  from  church,  set  up  rival  services,  and  sought  to 
draw  away  the  people.  Dr.  M'Lauchlan  describes  their  origin  : 
"The  system  is  said  to  have  originated  in  the  parish  of  Kil- 
donan,  in  Sutherland.  About  the  beginning  of  this  century  it 
.was  the  custom  in  the  North  Highlands  to  have  the  communion 
dispensed  only  once  in  the  two  years.  With  the  growth  of 
religious  life,  however,  among  the  people,  the  desire  was  often 
felt  to  have  the  ordinance  more  frequently  dispensed,  and  on 
one  occasion  this  desire  was  strongly  expressed  by  the  good 
"  Men  "  of  the  parish  to  the  minister  of  Kildonan.  He  diflfered 
from  them,  and  probably  not  liking  the  excitement  consequent 
on  a  great  gathering,  he  agreed  on  condition  that  only  one  week 
should  elapse  between  the  intimation  of  the  sacrament  and  the 
day  of  its  dispensation.  This  was,  however,  enough.  Messengers 
were  sent  to  all  the  neighbouring  parishes  to  let  the  people  know, 
and  a  great  concourse  of  worshippers  convened  on  the  Sabbath 
of  the  communion.  The  ordinance  was  to  have  been  dispensed 
in  the  church,  but  the  building  was  not  capable  of  containing 
one  half  of  the  people.  The  elders  came  to  tell  the  minister 
that  they  must  meet  outside,  as  the  people  could  not  find  room 
in  the  church.  His  reply  was,  '  If  not,  there  are  doors  to  keep 
them  out.'  This  was  enough;  a  famous  man,  John  Grant,  with 
another  like  himself,  withdrew  with  a  host  of  followers  to  a 
neighbouring  hillside,  and  kept  a  meeting  of  their  own  while 
the  services  were  conducted  in  the  church.  The  spirit  which 
was  generated  that  day  continued  and  spread  over  large  sections 
of  the  country,  and  led  to  the  formation  of  a  party  strongly 
opposed  to  the  Church  and  its  ministers." 

The  real  cause  of  this  disafifection  was  the  state  of  the  Church 
itself.  On  the  highest  authority*  we  are  told  that  hardly  any  part 
of  Scotland  was  more  intensely  moderate  during  the  latter  part 
of  last  century  than  Caithness  and  large  portions  of  the  neighbour- 
ing county  of  Sutherland,     There  was  just  one  pulpit  in  Caith- 

*  For  the  facts  stated  in  this  and  the  following  paragraph,  we  are 
indebted  to  a  valuable  letter,  signed  "  M.,"  which  appeared  in  the  Witness 
newspaper  of  10th  March,  1852.  It  is  from  the  pen  of  the  Kev.  Dr. 
M'Lauchlan. 


"  THE  MEN."  677 

ness  from  which  the  Gospel  of  Christ  issued  in  its  purity.  Among 
the  other  parishes  you  might  have  found  one  in  which  the  minister 
was  so  careless  that  he  passed  his  lifetime  with  only  three 
sermons,  which  he  read  and  read  till  his  whole  parishioners 
found  their  amusement  in  rehearsing  them ;  in  another,  there 
was  the  rankest  heresy,  while  in  another  there  was  utter  stupidity, 
if  not  gross  immorality.  Among  the  people  true  religion  kept 
its  hold,  but  they  were  disgusted  with  the  ministrations  of  the 
pulpit,  and  when  their  religion  was  left  to  itself  and  allowed  to 
train  itself,  what  wonder  if  in  many  cases  it  ran  wild  ?  The 
people  drew  off,  and  began  to  set  up  in  their  secluded  glens 
meetings  of  their  own.  The  consequence  was  as  might  have 
been  expected.  In  many  cases  a  fanatical  spirit  manifested 
itself ;  all  ministers  were  denounced,  and  church  membership 
was  repudiated.  The  misfortune  was  that  the  hostility  was 
directed  not  only  against  ministers  of  indifferent  character  or 
those  destitute  of  zeal  and  earnestness,  but  was  cherished  with 
equal  intensity  against  many  of  the  best  and  most  faithful 
ministers  in  the  country.  So  true  it  is  that  when  party  spirit 
enters  it  knows  no  bounds,  but  extends  to  everything  that  does 
not  yield  to  itself. 

At  the  time  of  the  Disruption  the  party  was  not  numerous. 
In  Caithness,  it  was  confined  almost  entirely  to  the  two  parishes 
of  Latheron  and  Eeay.  In  Koss-shire,  there  were  a  few  in  the 
parish  of  Fodderty,  and  some  scattered  individuals  through 
parts  of  Sutherland.  In  Inverness  and  Moray,  they  had  pene- 
trated into  the  parishes  of  Daviot,  Moy,  and  Duthil,  and  a  small 
section  of  Kilmorack.  In  Arran,  also,  some  traces  of  the  same 
spirit  were  found,  but  over  the  whole  200  parishes  which  con- 
stituted the  Highlands  there  were  not  so  many  as  ten  in  whicli 
these  parties  had  any  real  footing. 

Among  their  number  there  were  some  who,  like  their  leader, 
Alexander  Gair,  were  sincere  Christian  men.  But  there  were 
others  of  whom  Mr.  Findlater  speaks  as  holding  "  Antinomian 
views,  which  at  times  they  carry  into  practice."  Of  their 
separatist  meetings  some  account  is  given  by  Dr.  A.  Mackay 
the  biographer  of  Mr.  Davidson  of  Latheron,  who  writes  from 
personal  observation : — 


678  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

"  When  such  meetings  were  held  during  church  hours  the 
attendance  was  usually  very  small,  for  Mr.  Davidson  was  greatly 
respected  by  the  whole  body  of  his  parishioners.  After  the 
reading  of  Scripture,  there  were  addresses,  usually  giving  a 
highly  allegorical  interpretation  of  the  passage  read.  The 
degeneracy  of  the  times  was  much  insisted  on,  and  the  prevail- 
ing fashions  of  dress  were  vigorously  condemned.  We  well 
remember,  when  a  student  at  college,  going  to  hear  Alexander 
Gair — by  far  the  most  gifted,  original,  and  talented  of  these 
laymen — accompanied  by  two  of  our  college  companions.  We 
were  seated  immediately  behind  the  bench  occupied  by  the 
speakers.  Alexander  Gair  delivered  the  opening  address,  and 
fairly  astonished  us  by  the  sparkling  brilliancy  of  his  oratory, 
by  his  wonderful  acquaintance  with  Scripture — by  the  ingenious, 
original,  but  often  highly  mystical  interpretations  he  assigned 
to  many  passages,  by  his  scathing  invectives  against  many 
classes  of  evil-doers,  and  by  his  awful  denunciations  of  '  grace- 
less ministers.'  Then,  turning  round  so  as  to  have  the  students 
fully  in  view,  he  exclaimed:  'Which  of  you  young  ministers  will 
begin  his  first  sermon  with  the  words — May  the  curse  of  God 
alight  on  the  ministers  ?  '"* 

If  the  leading  men  of  the  party  could  speak  thus,  the  lesser 
men,  it  may  well  be  believed,  were  guilty  of  still  greater  extra- 
vagance, and  sometimes  of  absurdity.  An  effort  was  made  by 
a  defender  of  the  Establishment  in  Disruption  times  to  collect 
the  worst  specimens  of  their  sayings,  which  were  represented 
as  characteristic  of  the  whole  body  of  "  The  Men,"  and  then  the 
discredit  of  them  was  attempted  to  be  fastened  on  the  Pree 
Church  as  it  existed  in  the  North. 

This  was  doubly  unfair.  That  party  of  separatists  was 
repudiated  by  many  of  "  The  Men  "  themselves — as  by  James 
M'Donald,  father  of  Dr.  M'Donald,  William  Calder,  and  many 
others  who  defended  the  Church  and  her  faithful  ministers.  In 
fact,  the  party  "  were  hemmed  in  by  a  body  of  intelligent 
Christian  '  Men ' "  who  stood  opposed  to  them.  On  this  point 
Mr.  Findlater  expresses  himself  in  decided  terms  :  "  The  whole 
class  are  well  known  in  the  Highlands — every  child  there 
*  Life  of  Mr.  Davidson,  p.  184. 


"THE  MEN."  679 

could  draw  the  distinction  between  them  and  'The  Men.' 
I  am  anxious  that  the  distinction  should  be  clearly  under- 
stood."* 

The  attempt  to  identify  the  Free  Church  in  the  North  with 
the  extreme  party  was,  if  possible,  still  more  unfair.  "  Few  of 
them  sympathised  with  us  during  the  controversy  when  it  really 
became  serious,  and  few  of  them  joined  us  at  the  Disruption. 
Joseph  Mackay,  at  Keay,  their  leader  in  the  northern  portion 
of  Caithness,  avowedly  adhered  to  the  Establishment,  and  with- 
drew himself  altogether  from  the  ministry  of  the  Free  Church 
there." -f-  Alexander  Gair,  also,  already  referred  to,  never 
appeared  within  the  door  of  the  Free  Church  at  ordinary 
worship,  but  usually  held  rival  meetings  during  the  hours  of 
Divine  service. 

At  Farr,  Mr.  Mackenzie  met  with  the  same  spirit :  "  Some 
who  made  a  high  profession  of  superior  knowledge  and  zeal, 
and  inveighed  loudly  and  bitterly  against  the  Church  of  Scot- 
land before  the  Disruption,  are  now  very  cold  towards  the  Free 
Church,  and  in  some  cases  hostile." 

There  was  often  much  difficulty  in  dealing  with  this  class. 
Mr.  Carment,  of  Rosskeen,  set  his  face  determinedly  against 
them,  came  to  an  open  rupture,  lost  a  few  of  his  people,  but  so 
few  that  it  made  no  perceptible  difference  in  his  large  congre- 
gation, which  continued  till  his  death  one  of  the  largest  in 
Ross-shire.  In  other  parts  of  the  country,  where  the  party  were 
resident  in  greater  force,  ministers  in  some  cases  felt  that  they 
would  do  more  harm  than  good  by  any  open  attempt  to  put 
them  down.  We  ask  special  attention,  however,  to  the  account 
which  Dr.  M'Lauchlan  gives  from  his  own  experience  of  the 
difficulties  of  such  a  position,  and  of  the  way  in  which  they  could 
best  be  overcome  : — 

"  In  the  parishes  of  Moy,  Daviot,  and  Duthil,  the  catechist 
was  a  native  of  Caithness,  and  belonged  to  this  party.  He  was 
a  man  of  talent  and  character,  and  was  followed  by  a  large 
section  of  the  people.  Most  of  these  very  rarely  attended  wor- 
ship in  the  parish  church,  never  joined  in  the  communion,  and 

*  Disr.  Mss.  Ivi.  pp.  18-20. 
t  Dr.  M'Lauchlan — Witness^  10th  March,  1852. 


680  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

■were  most  unsparing  in  tlieir  criticisms  on  ministers  and  their 
supporters.  In  such  circumstances,  as  might  be  expected, 
religion  ceased  to  flourish,  party  spirit  took  its  place,  and 
parishes  tliat  had  been  distinguished  for  Christian  life  and 
earnestness,  became  gradually  spiritual  wastes.  In  the  parishes 
of  Moy  and  Dalarossie  at  least,  the  men  who  could  take  part  in 
public  religious  meetings  from  being  numerous  came  to  be  very 
few  ;  while  the  communicants  connected  with  the  Church  were 
latterly  not  above  a  dozen,  and  these  not  all  of  the  number  who 
were  most  esteemed  in  the  parish  for  their  religious  character. 
.  .  .  The  church  was  attended  chiefly  by  the  young  and  careless, 
while  the  older  people,  and  those  who  made  a  religious  profes- 
sion, either  stayed  at  home  or  attended  meetings  of  their  own. 
There  was  some  religious  life,  but  it  was  narrow  and  exclusive 
in  its  character,  and  ready  to  be  censorious  in  judging  of  any- 
thing that  differed  from  itself,  however  earnest  and  sincere.  In 
the  earlier  days  of  the  writer,  the  ministers  most  esteemed  in 
the  quarter  were  the  Eev.  Dr.  M'Donald,  of  Ferintosh;  the 
Rev.  Donald  Fraser,  of  Kirkhill ;  the  Rev.  John  Kennedy,  of 
Redcastle,  and  some  others ;  but  those  most  excellent  ministers 
were  not  held  in  repute  by  the  party  to  which  I  refer,  and  it 
was  only  on  rare  occasions  that  they  would  go  to  hear  them.  I 
am  free  to  confess  that  I  was  at  one  time  somewhat  impressed 
by  the  views  maintained  by  this  section  of  the  community.  I 
thought  them  faithful,  earnest,  and  anxious  for  the  purity  of  the 
Church,  and  was  somewhat  disposed  to  sympathise  with  theia 
Time  and  experience,  however,  have  led  me  to  think  differently  ; 
and  without  denying  to  them  in  the  least  the  merit  of  honesty 
in  what  they  said  and  did,  I  believe  they  made  a  poor  repre- 
sentation of  a  loving  Christianity  beyond  their  own  immediate 
party,  and  afforded  a  poor  specimen  of  the  activities  which 
should  characterise  the  Christian  life.  .  .  . 

"At  the  time  of  my  settlement  the  parish  was  still  divided, 
and  there  was  much  to  discourage  any  young  minister.  There 
were  a  few  good  pious  men,  but  they  were  chiefly  among  th«» 
dissentients,  and  the  general  state  of  religion  was  low.  I  set  about 
visiting  and  catechising  so  soon  as  I  could,  after  my  settlement. 
It  was  rather  an  arduous  undertaking,  especially  in  winter,  for 


"  THE  MEN."  681 

some  of  the  people  were  sixteen  miles  distant  from  the  manse, 
and  the  winters  were  usually  stormy.  Still  I  overtook  the  work 
and  found  the  benefit  of  it.  The  people  began  to  frequent  the 
parish  church  in  larger  numbers  and  the  congregation  increased 
manifestly  in  members  and  interest.  There  was  a  strong  tide 
of  prejudice  against  the  ministry  to  contend  with,  but  gradually 
the  prejudice  became  weaker  and  was  supplanted  by  a  consider- 
able degree  of  warmth."* 

The  work  which  had  thus  been  so  eJOFectively  carried  on  the 
Disruption  completed,  dissension  of  every  kind  rapidly  dis- 
appeared, "  and  there  is  not  a  more  united  people  now  within 
the  Free  Church  of  Scotland,"  f 

Mr.  Mackenzie  of  Farr,  we  have  already  seen,  had  similar 
difficulties  to  encounter,  and  he  too  describes  the  softening  efiect 
of  the  Disruption  : — 

"  We  have  continued  this  Friday  exercise  since  the  Disruption, 
and  in  regard  to  my  experience  in  my  own  congregation,  I  can 
candidly  declare  I  never  had  greater  satisfaction  in  such 
exercises  than  during  the  three  communion  solemnities  we  have 
had  since  we  left  the  Establishment.  It  seemed  to  me  that 
worthy  Christians  had  more  than  ordinary  freedom  in  com- 
municating the  marks  of  God's  dealing  with  their  souls,  in 
converting  and  building  up  in  holiness  and  comfort  through 
faith  unto  salvation.  There  was  an  unction  of  brotherly  love 
and  unity  which  was  truly  gratifying,  and  a  shrinking  from 
every  ingredient  of  the  old  leaven  of  division,  which  through 
the  injudicious  remarks  of  certain  conceited  speakers  had  on 
former  occasions  frequently  disturbed  the  harmony  which  ought 
to  prevail." 

Stornoway,  Creich,  and  other  localities  are  referred  to  by 
Mr.  Findlater,  where  the  people  had  drawn  back  from  the  Church 
and  held  meetings  of  their  own ;  bat  after  the  sacrifice  of  1843 
they  gave  over  the  invectives  in  which  they  were  accustomed  to 
indulge  against  the  Church,  "  returned  within  her  pale,  and  are 
now  among  her  staunchest  supporters." 

Even  Alexander  Gair,  after  his  life-long  attitude  of  opposition 

*  Disr.  Mss.  xlix.  pp.  4-6. 
t  Ibid.,  p.  12. 


682  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

and  separation,  gave  way  at  last.  Mr.  Davidson,  the  minister, 
hearing  that  he  was  on  his  death-bed,  went  to  visit  him,  and  the 
interview  is  said  to  have  been  affecting.  "  The  dying  saint 
embraced  him  affectionately,  assuring  him  that  after  the  unam- 
biguous testimony  he  had  emitted  at  the  time  of  the  Disruption, 
and  tlie  noble  sacrifices  he  had  then  made  for  Christ's  cause,  he 
had  become  perfectly  reconciled  to  him,  believing  him  to  be  a 
true  servant  of  the  Lord  who  had  the  welfare  of  souls  at  heart," 
It  is  the  testimony  of  one  who  well  knew  the  whole  circum- 
stances, that  "  the  Disruption  and  its  consequences  did  more  to 
put  down  the  disorders  connected  with  this  class  of  men  than 
all  other  agencies." 


THE  LADIES  ASSOCIATIONS.  683 


LIII.  The  Ladies'  Associations. 

The  Church,  as  we  have  seen,  was  at  the  outset  confronted  with 
the  diflficulty  of  providing  supply  for  150  vacant  congregations 
in  the  Highlands,  while  only  thirty-one  of  her  licensed  proba- 
tioners could  use  the  Gaelic  language.  At  her  call  eighty 
young  men  from  those  districts  ofiFered  themselves  for  the 
ministry,  but  it  was  no  easy  task  to  provide  for  the  long  course 
of  education  required.  Though  some  aid  was  given  by  the 
Highland  Committee,  the  matter  obviously  required  to  be  taken 
up  in  a  more  systematic  and  effective  way. 

To  Dr.  Mackintosh  Mackay,  then  of  Dunoon,  the  Church  was 
indebted  for  the  suggestion  that  the  training  of  such  students 
might  be  carried  on  in  connection  with  a  scheme  for  the  educa- 
tion and  religious  improvement  of  tbe  remote  Highlands  and 
Islands.  At  the  General  Assembly  of  1850  he  stated  that  there 
were  "  hundreds  and  thousands  of  children  in  the  outer  Hebrides 
and  along  the  coasts  of  the  mainland  growing  up  in  ignorance 
of  the  very  elements  of  knowledge."  His  idea  was  that  aid- 
schools  should  be  established  in  the  more  destitute  localities,  to 
be  taught  by  students ;  and  along  with  this  a  scheme  might  be 
devised  enabling  the  young  men  to  pass  through  the  usual  course 
of  college  training.  The  proposal  thus  made  was  not  allowed  to 
fall  out  of  sight.  Most  fortunately,  as  the  event  proved,  Dr. 
Mackay  resolved  to  appeal  for  help  to  the  ladies  of  Scotland,  and 
more  especially  to  those  of  Edinburgh  and  Glasgow.  It  happened 
to  the  writer  to  be  present  at  one  of  the  interviews  in  which  he 
explained  his  views  to  the  lady  who,  in  future  years,  acted  as 
secretary  at  Edinburgh,  and  has  all  along  done  so  much  for  the 
cause.  The  clamant  nature  of  the  demand  and  the  best  methods 
of  meeting  it  were  dwelt  on  with  great  earnestness.     In  various 


684  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

quarters  the  subject  was  in  this  way  fully  considered  in  private ; 
plans  were  matured,  and  the  work  was  entered  on  with  character- 
istic energy. 

At  Edinburgh  the  first  steps  were  taken.  A  list  was  made  of 
twelve  of  the  principal  Free  Church  congregations  ;  one  lady  in 
each  was  asked  to  invite  ten  or  twelve  others  belonging  to  the 
congregation  ;  and  the  result  was  that  a  large  attendance  was 
present  to  meet  with  Dr.  Mackay  in  the  old  Bible  Society's 
Kooms,  York  Place,  on  the  20th  of  November,  1850,  when  the 
Edinburgh  Ladies'  Association  was  formed.  In  the  following 
April  the  work  was  begun  with  the  opening  of  five  schools  in 
the  island  of  Harris.  Similar  steps  were  taken  at  Glasgow,  where 
an  association  was  also  formed,  and  down  to  the  present  day  the 
work  goes  on  with  unabated  zeal.  Never  did  Christian  ladies 
meet  with  a  more  congenial  sphere  of  work,  never  were  their 
efibrts  conducted  with  more  devoted  zeal  or  with  more  practical 
wisdom,  and  never  were  they  crowned  with  more  signal 
success.  In  all  this,  it  is  right  to  say,  they  received  from  Dr. 
M'Lauchlan,  of  Edinburgh,  most  valuable  counsel  and  aid. 

Certainly  the  educational  destitution  of  many  of  those  outlying 
districts  in  the  Highlands  and  Islands  was  very  great.  Even  so 
late  as  1872 — before  the  passing  of  the  Education  Act — it  was 
reported  by  a  Royal  Commission  that  in  the  whole  range  of  the 
Hebrides  only  twenty-four  out  of  the  1000  of  the  population 
could  sign  their  names.  Twenty  years  previously — at  the  time 
when  these  Associations  began — the  state  of  the  people  was  mucli 
worse.  "  When  the  island  of  Eriskay,  in  the  Southern  Hebrides, 
was  visited  by  an  agent  of  the  Glasgow  Ladies'  Association,  he 
took  a  careful  census  of  the  whole  island,  and  found  that  out  of 
a  population  of  over  300  only  three  persons  could  read,  and  there 
was  only  one  copy  of  the  Scriptures  on  the  island,  with  the  frag- 
ment of  another  copy.  .  .  .  In  the  island  of  Rum,  with  a  consider- 
able population,  there  had  been  no  school  within  the  memory 
of  man  until  the  Association  (Glasgow)  planted  a  school  there."* 

It  was  to  meet  such  a  state  of  things  that  these  Ladies' 
Associations  began  their  work.      The  plan  proposed  by  Dr. 
Mackay  was  that  schools  should  be  set  up  in  neglected  localities, 
*  Statement  by  Rev.  A.  C.  FullartOD,  Glasgow. 


THE  LADIES  ASSOCIATIONS.  685 

to  be  taught  from  April  on  through  summer  and  autumn  by- 
students  from  the  Highlands  who,  during  winter,  should  attend 
college,  passing  through  the  regular  course  of  education  for  the 
ministry.  Their  absence  from  these  schools  for  five  months  in 
the  year  was  no  doubt  a  disadvantage,  but  usually  they  devoted 
special  attention  to  some  promising  pupil,  whom  they  trained  to 
act  as  a  paid  substitute,  interchanging  between  the  different 
schools,  and  carrying  on  the  work  in  their  absence.'  This  was 
the  more  easily  done  because  in  many  localities,  owing  to  the 
great  distances  and  the  state  of  the  roads,  the  attendance  of  the 
younger  children  in  the  winter  months  was  much  diminished. 
The  substitutes,  of  course,  were  coming  forward  ultimately  to 
take  the  place  of  the  teachers  wlien  their  course  of  study  was 
finished,  and  so  a  continuous  supply  of  students  was  kept  up. 

Even  the  absence  of  the  teachers  during  the  college  session 
was  not  without  compensating  advantages.  As  a  rule,  they 
were  young  men  of  ability  and  of  devoted  Christian  character  ; 
and  when  they  came  down  each  returning  spring,  fresh  from 
the  mental  stimulus  of  university  life,  they  were  found  to  throw 
themselves  into  the  work  with  all  the  ardour  of  youthful  zeal. 
The  course  of  instruction  was  adapted  to  each  locality,  Gaelic 
being  invariably  the  language  of  the  school,  especially  in  teach- 
ing the  Bible  and  Catechism.  English  was  also  included,  and, 
for  the  most  part,  some  of  the  usual  branches  of  an  English  educa- 
tion, instruction  being  at  the  same  time  given,  according  to  the 
use  and  wont  of  Scotland,  in  Latin,*  Greek,  and  mathematics, 
wherever  there  were  advanced  pupils  prepared  to  profit  by  it. 

The  result  was  satisfactory  to  a  high  degree.  Strangers  from 
a  distance — Englishmen  and  others — who  visited  these  schools 
so  humble  in  outward  appearance,  were  often  taken  by  surprise, 
when  they  found  what  was  going  on,  and  in  some  cases  wrote 
to  express  their  approbation  in  the  strongest  terms.  It  may  be 
enough,  however,  to  refer  to  two  authorities  whose  opinion  is 
entitled  to  the  greatest  deference. 

*  This  was  taken  advantage  of.  In  the  schools  of  South  Uist,  for 
example,  there  were  fifteen  pupils  learning  Latin — four  in  the  parish 
school,  eleven  in  the  schools  of  the  Ladies'  Association. — Parliamentary 
Eeport,  by  Alex.  Nicolson,  Esq.,  Advocate,  p.  41. 


686  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

The  first  is  an  elaborate  Parliamentary  report,  prepared  by 
Alex.  Nicolson,  Esq.,  Advocate,  on  the  state  of  education  in  the 
Hebrides.  After  referring  to  certain  defects — the  limited  income 
of  the  Associations,  and  the  absence  of  the  teachers  during 
winter — lie  goes  on  to  speak  of  the  schools  :  "  I  can  only  attri- 
bute their  generally  high  character  to  the  prevalence  among 
the  teachers  of  something  of  that  missionary  spirit  which  I  have 
elsewhere  spoken  of  as  demanded  in  these  regions.  They  are  all 
young  men,  and  though  many  of  them  have  received  no  special 
training  as  teachers,  they  often  make  up  for  the  want  of  it  by 
a  large  amount  of  the  earnestness  and  activity  still  more 
essential  to  the  life  of  a  school."  * 

Not  less  emphatic  is  the  testimony  of  Dr.  Dufi^,  referring  to 
a  visit  to  one  of  the  schools  in  Harris :  "  I  can  only  say  that  I 
was  at  once  delighted  and  astonished  at  the  progress  of  the 
pupils  in  circumstances  so  unpropitious,  considering  the 
singularly  rugged  and  uncouth  materials  on  which  the  teacher 
had  to  operate.  The  order,  the  discipline,  the  amount  of  solid 
instruction,  and  especially  Bible  instruction,  imparted  within  so 
short  a  time,  was  such  as  to  justify  the  fullest  expression  of 
confidence  in  him,  and  of  thankfulness  to  God  on  account  of 
the  inestimable  benefits  conferred  by  your  Society.  On  the 
spot  the  involuntary  exclamation  was, — Would  to  God  that  the 
operations  of  the  Society  were  similarly  extended  over  all  these 
destitute  isles."  -f- 

The  poverty  of  the  people  made  it  impossible  to  charge  fees, 
and  the  teaching  accordingly  was  free.  Indeed  it  was  necessary 
to  provide  clothing  for  many  of  the  children,  if  they  were  to 
attend  school.  This  led  to  much  attention  being  given  to  the 
industrial  department,  and  sewing  mistresses  were  attached  to 
many  of  the  schools  "  so  as  to  teach  the  young  women  needle- 
work and  knitting."  In  this  part  of  the  work  many  of  the 
ladies  took  a  special  interest,  and  when  the  young  student- 
teachers  went  North  at  the  end  of  each  college  session,  they 
usually   took    with    them   "large   parcels  of    clothing."     This 

*  Keport  on  the  State  of  Education  in  the  Hebrides,  by  Alex.  Nicolson, 
Esq.,  Advocate,  pp.  91,  92. 
f  Missionary  Record,  March,  1853,  p.  207. 


THE  ladies'  associations.  687 

department  has  gone  on  increasing  so  that  in  the  year  1882 
upwards  of  fifty  packages  were  despatched ;  "  but  that  is 
nothing  in  comparison  with  the  boon  conferred  on  the  girls 
who  attend  these  schools  by  teaching  them  to  sew  and  make 
clothes  for  themselves.  A  most  wonderful  change  has  been 
wrought,  not  only  in  the  outward  appearance  but  in  the  whole 
habits  of  the  young  people." 

Invaluable  as  all  this  was,  the  educational  work  was  only  a 
means  to  a  higher  end — "  the  religious  improvement "  of  these 
remote  localities,  and  the  bringing  forward  of  Gaelic-speaking 
young  men  for  the  work  of  the  ministry.  Strictly  speaking, 
the  schools  were  missionary  schools.  The  young  men  were 
preparing  for  license,  and  they  in  very  many  cases  gave  them- 
selves to  missionary  work  in  the  midst  of  a  neglected  popula- 
tion. Very  generally  they  were  young  men  of  devoted  piety, 
and  the  school  became  a  centre  of  religious  life.  Among  the 
outlying  hamlets  far  from  church  they  visited  the  sick,  held 
religious  meetings  attended  by  young  and  old,  gaining  experi- 
ence which  fitted  them  for  the  future  work  of  their  lives. 
These  services  were  highly  prized,  and  in  some  cases  much 
spiritual  blessing  is  known  to  have  followed. 

Outside  the  Highlands,  comparatively  few  are  aware  of  the 
scale  on  which  this  work  has  been  carried  on. 

The  Edinburgh  Association  have  had  schools  for  longer  or 
shorter  periods  at  116  stations,  and  given  aid  at  17  others — 
183  in  all.  The  great  object  was  to  select  the  most  necessitous 
places  all  over  the  Highlands  and  Islands.  Even  in  1882, 
after  the  work  has  been  interfered  with  by  the  Parochial  School 
Boards,  a  large  number  of  stations  are  still  kept  up,  and  will 
probably  continue  to  be  required  in  localities  too  remote  for 
School  Boards  to  reach. 

In  these  pages,  however,  our  main  object  is  to  record  the 
help  given  to  the  Church  in  recruiting  the  ranks  of  the 
ministry. 

The  number  of  students  employed  down  to  1882  has  been 
in  all,  307. 

Of  these — 

18  died  before  completing  their  studies. 


688  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

30  are  now  employed   as   probationers,  teachers,  and 

medical  men. 
27  are  on  the  present  staflf, 

87  were  licensed  and  ordained  as  ministers  of  the  Free 
Church,  of  whom  5  have  died,  leaving  82  at  present 
in  full  work.     Of  the   others,  a  large   proportion 
went  to  the  Colonies,  where  in  some  cases  they  are 
known  to  have  been  eminently  useful. 
In  Glasgow  a  similar  association  was  formed  contemporane- 
ously with  that  of  Edinburgh,  and  though  on  a  less  extensive 
scale,  it  has  yet  been  enabled  to  render  important  service  in 
the  same  cause.     The  especial  field  of  its  operations  was  South 
Uist,  Benbecula,  and  the  neighbouring  islands,  where  the  great 
majority  of  the  population  are  Koman  Catholics.     In   these 
localities — among  the  most  destitute  in  Scotland — about  fifty 
young  men  have  been  employed,  sixteen  of  whom  have  gone  on 
to  the  ministry,  for  the  most  part  in  the  Free  Church,  but  a 
few  in  the  Colonies.     Four  are  doctors  of  medicine,  and  one  a 
medical  missionary,  "  giving  promise  of  great  usefulness." 

All  this  required  considerable  outlay.  There  was  the  expense 
of  keeping  up  the  schools,  finding  an  income  for  the  teachers, 
and  clothing  for  many  of  the  children ;  and  there  was  the  money 
needed  to  support  the  young  men  while  attending  college. 
The  remarkable  thing  is  that,  without  any  grant  from  the 
Church,  the  whole  funds  were  raised  by  the  ladies  in  the  form 
of  private  subscriptions  and  legacies.  In  Edinburgh,  the 
income  for  the  first  year  was  £378  and  this  gradually 
increased  till  it  rose  to  about  £2000  annually — a  sum  which  in 
some  instances  was  exceeded.  The  whole  amount  for  the  thirty- 
one  years  has  been  £44,684,  8s.  lOd. ;  and  to  this  must  be 
added  the  cost  of  a  considerable  amount  of  clothing — an 
absolute  necessity  in  some  localities  if  the  little  Highland 
children  were  to  be  able  to  attend  school. 

It  is  hardly  possible  to  over-estimate  the  blessings  which 
these  schools  have  conferred  on  the  population  of  these  remote 
localities.  "  The  object  aimed  at " — one  who  knew  them  well 
has  said — "was  to  give  a  Christian  education  to  the  young, 
both  in  English  and  Gaelic,  and  thus  enable  them  to  work  their 


THE  LADIES'  ASSOCIATIONS.  689 

way  in  the  world.  To  a  very  large  extent  this  has  been  accom- 
plished. In  these  districts  a  very  large  proportion  of  the  people 
— especially  the  younger  portion  of  them — can  read  and  write 
and  understand  English  and  speak  it.  Large  numbers  of  the 
young  men  have  been  able  to  work  their  way  to  the  Lowlands, 
to  the  sea  and  the  Colonies,  and  young  women  to  make  their 
way  into  domestic  service.  Besides,  those  who  traversed  the 
Eoman  Catholic  islands  thirty-two  years  ago,  and  who  have 
traversed  them  again  recently,  are  forcibly  impressed  with  the 
improved  moral  tone  of  the  community  and  the  manifest  soften- 
ing of  the  animosity  arising  from  dififerent  religious  beliefs,  and 
the  appreciation,  in  some  measure,  of  the  gentle  and  loving 
spirit  of  the  New  Testament."* 

For  more  than  thirty  years  these  two  Ladies'  Associations 
have  wrought  harmoniously  side  by  side.  Kecently  they  have 
resolved  to  combine  their  forces,  and  the  united  Association  has 
now  a  staff  of  seventy  teachers,  including  sewing  mistresses, 
maintained  for  the  year  1882  at  an  expenditure  or  £1792,  6s. 
ll|d. 

Their  work,  however,  is  by  no  means  finished.  "  The  Educa- 
tion Act  (1872)  has  undoubtedly  been  a  great  boon  to  the 
Highlands,  as  well  as  to  other  parts  of  Scotland.  .  .  .  But  the 
villages  and  hamlets  in  many  parts  of  the  Highlands  are  so 
scattered,  and  the  land  so  poor  and  the  rents  so  small,  that  no 
reasonable  rate  laid  on  the  rental  can  enable  the  School  Boards 
to  meet  the  educational  requirements.  Take,  for  example,  the 
large  parish  of  South  Uist,  about  thirty  miles  long,  with  a  low 
range  of  uninhabited  mountains  running  through  its  entire 
length,  separating  the  flat  and  more  densely-populated  plain  to 
the  west  from  the  fishing  villages  on  the  lochs  and  bays  of  the 
east.  All  the  public  schools  are  on  the  flat  plain  to  the  west, 
and  the  villages  on  Lochuskevagh,  Lochcarnan,  Locheynart, 
Lochskipport,  and  Lochboisdale,  have  no  public  school  within 
reasonable  distance.  Unless  in  so  far  as  the  Ladies'  Associa- 
tion cares  for  the  educational  wants  of  these  villages,  they  are 
uncared  for."  This  example — and  there  are  other  localities  in 
which  the  same  thing  holds  good — may  serve  to  show  that  the 

*  Statement  by  Rev.  A.  C.  Fullarton,  Glasgow. 

2  Y 


690  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

work  which  has  been  so  blessed  in  the  past  will  still  be  required 
in  the  future.* 

But,  apart  from  these  educational  results  among  the  people, 
there  is  the  outstanding  fact  that  so  many  young  men  able  to 
speak  the  Oaelic  language  have  been  trained  for  the  work  of 
-  the  ministry.  Besides  medical  men  and  professional  teachers, 
there  have  come  forth  from  these  schools  nearly  one  hundred 
who  have  been  ordained  over  Free  Church  congregations,  and 
no  one  can  look  over  the  list  of  their  names,  and  take  note  of 
the  important  positions  which  many  of  these  young  ministers 
hold,  without  feeling  how  much  has  been  done  for  the  cause  of 
true  religion,  and  what  a  debt  of  gratitude  the  Free  Church 
owes  to  these  Ladies'  Associations.  So  quietly  and  unobtrusively 
have  their  operations  been  carried  on  that  very  many  of  our 
ministers  and  members  are  hardly  aware  of  what  has  been  done. 
No  names  must  be  mentioned  here,  but  the  friends  who  have 
taken  the  lead  in  this  labour  of  love  are  well  known  in  many  a 
distant  home,  and  will  be  long  held  in  grateful  remembrance 
by  every  friend  of  the  Highlands. 

*  Statement  by  Rev.  A.  C.  FuUarton,  Glasgow. 


MAP 

Shoi^Tiift' flip  loaiKties  dccnpiei 
l)\  tin    LADIES'  SCHOOLS  ill  the 

OF. 


Butt  o£  Lewis 

ianoL 


A'tiL'KJolmitrn.rdiiibnr^ 


ST.  KILDA.  691 


LIV.  St.  Kilda. 

It  has  sometimes  been  asked  how  the  population  of  the  High- 
lands came  to  have  such  decided  views  on  the  questions  which 
led  to  the  Disruption.  Did  they  really  understand  the  headship 
of  Christ,  and  how  it  was  involved  in  the  Ten  Years'  Conflict  ? 
The  people  of  St.  Kilda,  for  example,  when  they  adhered  to  the 
Free  Church,  was  their  adherence  intelligently  given  ? 

The  island,  as  is  well  known,  lies  out  in  the  Atlantic,  far  away 
beyond  the  Outer  Hebrides — its  bare  rampart  of  precipitous 
rocks  risino;  in  rug-Q-ed  grandeur  from  the  sea,  inaccessible  save 
where  on  the  east  there  is  an  opening  at  which  in  certain  states 
of  the  weather  it  is  possible  to  land.  Twenty  years  before  the 
Disruption  this  loneliest  and  least-known  portion  of  the  British 
islands  was  inhabited  by  a  population  of  108  persons,  among 
whom  there  was  only  one  man — John  Ferguson — who  "  could 
read  to  any  purpose." 

It  was  in  the  year  1822  that  Dr.  M'Donald,  of  Urquhart 
(Ferintosh),  whose  evangelistic  labours  were  well  known  all  over 
the  North,  resolved  to  pay  a  visit  to  St.  Kilda,*  at  the  instance  of 
the  Society  for  Propagating  Christian  Knowledge.  On  his  way 
he  went  to  see  a  minister  in  Harris,  who  stated  that  St.  Kilda 
was  part  of  his  parish,  but  owned  that  he  had  never  seen  it. 
For  a  long  course  of  years  the  people  had  been  left  destitute  of 
religious  ordinances. 

The  vessel  in  which  Dr.  M'Donald  sailed  belonged  to  "  the 
tacksman "  of  the  island,  who  went  annually  to  receive  his 
rents.  On  the  15th  of  September  they  sailed  from  the  Long 
Island  at  4.30  a.m.,  and  though  the  voyage  was  somewhat 
delayed,  yet  by  two  o'clock  they  reached  St.  Kilda,  where  they 
*  Life  of  Dr.  M'Donald,  by  Dr.  Kennedy,  p.  110  et  seq. 


692  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

were  warmly  welcomed,  and  the  best  accommodation  which  the 
island  could  afford  was  at  once  put  at  their  disposal.  That 
evening  at  six  o'clock  the  whole  population  met  in  a  barn,  used 
as  the  school-house  of  a  Gaelic  teacher  recently  appointed,  and 
Dr.  M 'Donald  .preached,  taking  as  his  text  the  message  of 
"  o-ood  will  to  men."  It  was  the  busiest  season  of  the  year — the 
scanty  harvest  of  the  island  was  being  cut — the  young  solan 
creese,  on  which  the  people  depended  for  their  livelihood,  had  to 
be  collected ;  but  it  was  resolved  that  for  the  ten  days  during 
which  the  vessel  remained,  public  worship  should  be  held,  at 
which  they  should  all  attend,  every  evening  when  the  work  of 
the  day  was  over. 

Now,  we  ask  attention  to  the  subjects  selected  by  the  preacher 
on  that  occasion.  The  sermons  would  be  delivered  with  all  the 
Avarmth  and  fervour  by  which  Dr.  M' Donald's  preaching  was 
distinguished ;  but  the  reader  will  observe  they  form  a  con- 
nected course  of  religious  instruction,  in  which  the  hearers  are 
carried  forward  through  the  most  important  truths  relating  to 
sin  and  salvation  : — 

IQth  Sept. — His  discourse  was  on  Eom.  iii.  12:  Showing 
the  evil  and  the  extent  of  sin.  "Some  of  the  hearers 
discovered  signs  of  being  affected,  as  if  the  view  pre- 
sented was  new  and  alarming." 
17 th  Sept. — The  text  was  Eom.  iii.  19  ;  compared  with  Gal. 
iii.  10 :  Showing  man's  natural  state  as  condemned 
under  the  law.  "  All  listened  with  uncommon  attention, 
and  some  were  evidently  impressed." 
ISth  Sept. — The  subject  was  taken  from  Eom.  iii.  20  :  The 
impossibility  of  being  justified  by  our  own  good  works. 
"  I  could  perceive  that  some  were  aflPected,  and  disposed 
to  ask,  What  must  we  do  ? " 
10th  Sept. — The  fourth  sermon  was  on  Eom.  iii.  21  :  The 
righteousness  of  Christ  as  the  ground  of  a  sinner's 
forgiveness  and  acceptance.  "  While  speaking  of  the 
Eedeemer's  sufierings,  some  appeared  to  be  deeply  im- 
pressed ;  there  was  something  like  a  melting  under  the 
Word.  The  Cross,  I  see,  is  that  which  chiefly  moves  the 
sinner." 


ST.  KILDA.  693 


in 


2,0th  Sept. — Preached  from  Eom.  iii.  22,  on  The  manner  i 
which  the  righteousness  of  Christ  becomes  ours.  "  Some, 
both  old  and  young,  were  aflfected  to  tears,  among  others 
an  old  man  upwards  of  sixty  years  of  age." 
21st  Sept. — Preached  from  Eom.  v.  1,  on  The  effects  of 
justification.  "The  Gaelic  teacher  told  me  that  he 
saw  this  morning  one  of  the  people  engaged  earnestly  at 
prayer  in  one  of  the  fields— a  new  thing  in  St.  Kilda." 
22nd  Sept. — Preached  on  The  work  of  the  Spirit.     "  At  one 

time  almost  all  were  in  tears." 
While  this  course  of  sermons  was  going  on  he  went  freely 
among  the  people  in  private.  All  who  ever  met  Dr.  M'Donald 
know  how  frank  and  genial  his  nature  was,  and  can  well  under- 
stand how  welcome  such  intercourse  must  have  been.  One  day, 
for  example,  he  finds  the  whole  population  out  in  the  harvest- 
field,  every  family  busy  cutting  down  their  own  small  crop.  They 
were  eager  for  giving  and  receiving  news.  "  I  endeavoured  to 
gratify  them  as  much  as  I  could,  and  they  in  return  entertained 
me  with  all  the  little  tales  of  their  island.  I  found  this  eave 
me  readier  access  to  their  minds." 

One  afternoon  there  was  a  diet  of  catechising  held,  which  was 
pretty  numerously  attended.  "Spoke  to  them  of  the  excellence 
of  the  Shorter  Catechism,  heard  the  people  most  of  the  questions, 
and  found  that  though  they  could  not  read  they  could  repeat 
them  with  tolerable  accuracy,  but  were  deficient  in  their  know- 
ledge of  the  meaning  of  them." 

It  was  to  rouse  and  awaken  their  intelligence  as  well  as  to 
reach  their  hearts  that  the  above  course  of  sermons  was  delivered. 
Dr.  M'Donald  was  the  greatest  Gaelic  preacher  of  his  day, 
dealing  as  none  but  he  could  with  the  minds  of  his  Highland 
countrymen ;  but  his  grand  object  was  to  present  God's  truth 
objectively,  so  as  to  convince  the  reason,  and  through  the  reason 
to  impress  the  heart. 

This  style  of  preaching  was  sought  and  relished  all  over  the 
North.  However  much  or  however  little  of  secular  education 
the  people  might  have,  yet  on  the  great  principles  of  Divine 
truth  it  was  no  vague  or  superficial  mode  of  treatment  that 
would  satisfy  them.     It  is  surely  a  striking  illustration  of  this 


694  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

which  meets  us  here,  when  Dr.  M'Donald  is  breaking  ground 
in  St.  Kilda,  and  asking  these  simple-minded  people  to  enter 
into  the  strong  arguments  and  powerful  appeals  of  the  great 
apostle. 

It  was  at  the  close  of  the  services,  however,  that  they  began 
to  show  how  the  truth  had  taken  hold  of  their  minds.  His 
last  two  sermons  were  from  2  Cor.  v.  17.  Many  were  much 
impressed — some  in  tears — among  others,  the  old  man  formerly 
referred  to.  "  On  my  hinting  that  this  would  be  the  closing 
sermon,  they  all  began  to  weep.  The  scene  quite  overcame  me. 
I  concluded  abruptly." 

Next  morning  the  whole — men,  women,  and  children — came 
down  to  the  shore,  and  amidst  cries  and  tears,  in  which 
my  landlord  and  I  were  obliged  to  share,  we  shook  hands. 
After  we  got  under  weigh  they  ascended  the  brow  of  a  steep 
hill  and  sat,  following  us  with  their  eyes,  till  our  little  bark 
became  no  longer  visible." 

During  next  winter  his  thoughts  were  often  dwelling  on 
St.  Kilda,  and  the  following  May  found  him  on  his  way  to 
revisit  the  people.  On  catching  sight  of  his  approach  they  flew 
down  to  the  shore,  and  when  he  stepped  on  land  "they  all 
pressed  round  me,"  he  says,  "  and  grasped  my  hand,  each  in  his 
two,  till  I  thought  they  would  have  wrung  the  very  blood  out 
of  it."  Few  words  passed,  but  there  were  tears — "  God  knows 
my  heart  was  full." 

On  this  occasion  they  had  service  twice  a-day,  with  a  still 
more  systematic  course  of  religious  instruction,  both  doctrinal 
and  practical — the  details  of  which  need  not  be  given. 

A  resident  teacher  had  been  appointed  by  the  Gaelic  School 
Society,  and  Dr.  M'Donald  held  an  examination  of  his  school. 
The  scholars  numbered  fifty-seven,  including  fifteen  or  sixteen 
married  persons — fully  half  the  population  of  the  island.  "  The 
appearance  they  made  was  wonderful." 

On  this  second  visit  the  hearts  of  the  people  were  more  open 
to  receive  the  Gospel.  The  old  man  previously  referred  to  had 
lost  his  eyesight.  "  On  my  saying  it  would  be  well  if  his 
mental  eyes  were  opened — 

"  '  I  trust  they  are,'  he  said. 


ST.  KILDA.  695 

" '  But  what  then  do  you  see  V 

"  '  That  I  am  blind — that  in  myself  I  am  a  ruined  sinner,  but 
Christ  is  an  Almighty  Saviour.' 

" '  But  what  if  He  is  not  willing  ? ' 

" '  Willing !  would  He  die  for  sinners  if  He  were  not  willing 
to  save  them ? — No  !  no  !'" 

The  impression  seems  to  have  been  general,  "  It  was  delight- 
ful in  the  evening,  between  nine  and  ten  o'clock,  to  hear  the 
praises  of  God  and  prayer  ascending  from  almost  every  family 
— a  new  thing  in  St.  Kilda." 

It  now  became  necessary  to  think  of  some  provision  being 
made  for  the  regular  supply  of  religious  ordinances.  Dr. 
M'Donald  went  forth  over  the  country  and  succeeded  in  raising 
a  sum  of  £800  for  the  erection  of  a  church  and  manse.  It  was 
not  till  the  summer  of  1830,  however,  that  the  buildings  were 
ready — when  Mr.  N.  Mackenzie  was  appointed  as  an  ordained 
missionary,  and  Dr.  M'Donald  went  to  introduce  him  to  his  flock. 
After  a  warm  and  cordial  welcome  and  a  fortnight  of  religious 
services  as  on  former  years,  the  parting  came.  In  his  last  sermon 
he  "  sought  to  lead  their  views  to  the  cross  of  Christ  and  fix 
them  there,  and  told  them  I  felt  both  joy  and  sorrow — joy  that 
I  left  with  them  a  Gospel  minister — and  sorrow  that  on  this 
very  account  I  should  in  all  probability  see  them  no  more. 
After  this  the  whole  house  became  a  Bochim"  (a  place  of 
weeping). 

Trained  for  twenty  years  in  these  views  of  Divine  truth,  the 
men  of  St.  Kilda  were  not  unprepared  to  appreciate  the  questions 
which  arose  in  1843.  Within  four  years  of  that  last  visit  of 
Dr.  M'Donald  the  great  struggle  had  begun.  Mr.  Mackenzie, 
the  resident  pastor,  was  one  of  the  evangelical  party,  and  is  said 
to  have  kept  the  people  well  informed  as  to  the  course  of  events. 
When  the  Disruption  came,  he  disappointed  his  former  friends 
by  leaving  his  post  and  going  over  to  the  opposite  party — 
seeking  a  living  within  the  Establishment ;  but  the  whole 
people  of  St.  Kilda  without  one  dissenting  voice  resolved  to 
attach  themselves  to  the  Free  Church. 

As  in  many  other  cases,  they  had  trials  to  encounter  at  the 
hands  of  the  proprietor,  who  locked  up  church  and  manse  to 


696  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

keep  out  any  one  belonging  to  the  Free  Church,  and  refused 
ground  on  which  the  people  might  build  for  themselves. 

There  were  peculiarities  in  the  case  which  made  it  a  hard 
one.  The  building  had  been  erected,  not  by  the  heritor  or 
proprietor,  but  by  money  raised  from  the  public  by  subscription. 
It  had  been  subscribed  expressly  for  the  benefit  of  the  St.  Kilda 
people,,  and  now  they  were  locked  out.  It  is  quite  possible  that 
the  proprietor,  having  given  the  site,  had  the  legal  right  to  do 
what  he  did  ;  but  it  was  a  strong  step  to  take,  to  shut  out  Dr. 
M'Donald,  who  had  built  the  church,  and  the  people  for  whom 
it  was  built. 

There  was,  however,  a  more  serious  question.  The  whole 
island  belonged  to  this  single  proprietor.  The  nearest  land  was 
sixty  miles  ofi",  across  a  sea  so  stormy  that  for  the  greater  part 
of  the  year  landing  at  St.  Kilda  is  all  but  impossible.  In  such 
a  case  the  question  is  forced  on  us  whether  a  proprietor  is 
entitled  to  deny  a  site.  He  has  his  right  to  the  soil,  but  is  he 
authorised  to  push  his  right  so  far  as  to  refuse  the  people  the 
means  of  worshipping  God  according  to  their  consciences  ? 
Was  not  the  proprietor  of  St.  Kilda  practically  suspending  the 
law  of  religious  toleration  ? 

Yet  for  ten  years  this  went  on.  No  noise  was  made.  Quietly 
and  patiently  the  people  continued  tilling  the  inhospitable  soil 
— paying  their  rents  and  determinedly  adhering  to  their  prin- 
ciples, while  church  and  manse,  which  were  theirs  in  equity, 
stood  locked  up  and  empty. 

Meantime,  an  efi'ort  was  made  to  draw  them  into  the  Estab- 
lishment. Their  former  pastor,  who  had  himself  gone  over, 
arrived  at  the  island,  prepared  to  use  all  his  influence.  They 
received  him  kindly,  but  utterly  refused  to  accept  religious 
ordinances  at  his  hands.  Their  resolution  was  calmly  to  wait 
the  time  when  their  own  Church  could  come  to  their  aid. 

At  the  outset,  the  numerous  demands  which  came  on  the 
Free  Church  made  it  difficult  to  give  supply  to  St.  Kilda,  but 
at  last  a  catechist  was  sent.  Aoain  and  ao;ain  he  was  driven 
back  from  these  stormy  shores,  and  when  at  last  he  landed,  he 
found  that,  notwithstanding  the  unanimous  adherence  of  the 
people,  manse  and  church  were  locked  up,  and  no  accommoda- 


ST.  KILDA.  697 

tion  was  to  be  had,  "  When  he  was  about  to  leave  the  island 
the  people  besought  him,  telling  him  they  would  do  anything 
to  keep  him,  and  reminding  him  that  our  blessed  Lord  Himself 
had  not  where  to  lay  His  head.  That  man  stayed  and  preached 
the  Gospel  to  this  interesting  people."* 

For  the  next  five  years,  however,  owing  to  the  refusal  of  the 
proprietor,  no  regular  supply  of  Christian  ordinances  could  be 
given,  except  that  stated  religious  meetings  were  held  by  the 
elders — a  body  of  devoted  Christian  men.  Once  a-year,  how- 
ever, an  important  event  took  place — The  Breadalbane  yacht 
arrived  off  the  shore,  bringing  a  deputation  of  ministers  to 
preach  and  dispense  the  ordinances  of  the  Church. 

Mr,  Angus  M'Gillivray,  of  Dairsie,  describes  his  visit  in 
1849  : — "  Our  first  view  was  anything  but  inviting.-|-  The  wind 
was  strong  and  the  swell  heavy ;  the  drifting  mists  concealed 
the  tops  of  the  hills,  and  the  sea  dashed  wildly  against  the 
rocks.  Next  morning  the  weather  moderated.  .  .  .  During  the 
whole  of  our  stay  it  was  lovely — the  sea  calm  as  glass — the  sky 
cloudless — and  when  at  night,  from  the  deck  of  the  little  vessel, 
we  viewed  the  lofty  peaks  of  the  island  standing  out  in  bold 
relief  from  the  northern  twilight,  and  the  rays  of  the  moon 
dancing  on  the  slight  ripple  with  nothing  but  the  ocean  around 
us,  the  whole  combined  to  form  a  scene  which  a  painter  might 
have  envied." 

The  people,  he  found,  were  intelligent  and  deeply  serious. 
The  population  "  is  at  present  109, — last  year  it  was  106  ;  but 
there  have  been  three  births  and  no  deaths."  As  regards  social 
comfort,  they  seem  equal,  if  not  superior,  to  their  neighbours  on 
the  Long  Island,  There  is  no  want  of  food,  and  though  their 
clothes  being  homespun  are  coarse,  you  never  see  even  a  child 
in  rags — a  sight  too  common  in  the  Uists  and  Barra. 

The  following  year — 1850 — he  again  formed  one  of  a 
deputation,  along  with  Dr.  M'Lauchlan.  Arriving  on  the 
ord  July,  they  met  with  the  elders,  a  body  of  "  excellent 
and  highly  intelligent  men,  who  stated  that  the  whole 
community    were    as    firmly  attached    as    ever   to   the    Free 

*  Blue  Book,  1848,  pp.  232,  233. 

•;•   WUness  Newspaper,  18th  Auffust,  1849. 


698  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

Cliurcli ;  and  that  from  us  alone  holding  the  principles  which 
they  did,  could  they  receive  sealing  ordinances."  On  the  day 
of  arrival  one  sermon  was  preached  in  the  evening,  and  for  the 
five  following  days  there  were  sometimes  two  and  sometimes 
three  sermons,  the  Lord's  Supper  being  dispensed  on  the 
Sabbath.  Of  seven  who  applied  for  the  first  time  as  young 
communicants,  three  were  admitted  after  examination  to  sit 
down  at  the  table.  "  The  people  were  much  aff"ected  during 
the  communion  services,  their  sobs  at  one  time  almost  drowning 
the  voice  of  the  speaker.  They  have  universally  a  deep  reverence 
for  the  truth,  and  many  of  them  seem  to  have  felt  its  power." 

After  sermon  on  Monday  the  deputation  explained  how  every 
means  had  been  used  to  obtain  permanent  supply.  No  reflec- 
tions were  cast  on  the  proprietor,  to  whom  the  people  seemed 
grateful  and  attached ;  but  without  a  site  the  Free  Church 
could  do  nothing.  The  people  declared  their  belief  in  the 
principles  of  their  Church,  and  that  nothing  would  shake  their 
attachment  to  them.  The  deputation  were  convinced  that  they 
are  intelligent  Free  Churchmen,  and  any  effort  at  turning  them 
aside  will  be  utterly  vain.* 

This  conviction  at  last  forced  itself  on  the  proprietor,  who,  in 
1853,  handed  over  church  and  manse ;  when  at  once  Mr. 
Duncan  Kennedy  was  appointed  resident  catechist,  and  sailed 
in  September  along  with  Mr.  M'Gillivray  (Dairsie),  who  went 
to  introduce  him  and  dispense  the  sacrament.  With  great  joy 
they  were  welcomed  by  the  people.  Sabbath  was  appointed  for 
the  communion,  and  Thursday  kept  as  a  fast  day,  when  four 
children  were  baptised,  two  of  them  a  year  old.  Even  then, 
however,  at  the  very  time  when  a  resident  catechist  was 
welcomed,  the  importance  of  this  plan  of  ministerial  supply 
was  seen.  On  Thursday  the  wind  began  to  rise.  The  captain 
dared  not  risk  his  vessel  in  the  open  bay  of  St.  Kilda,  lifted  his 
anchor,  and,  after  beating  for  two  days  in  the  offing,  was  forced 
to  run  for  the  coast  of  Sutherland,  where  they  came  to  anchor 
in  one  of  the  heaviest  gales  Mr.  M'Gillivray  was  ever  out  in. 
"  We  felt  deeply  that  for  a  whole  year  the  people  have  been 
deprived  of  the  ordinance  of  the  Supper." 

*  Free  Church  Record,  January,  1851,  p.  191. 


ST.  KILDA.  699 

The  labours  of  the  catechist  and  the  visits  of  such  deputa- 
tions were  much  appreciated  by  the  people ;  but  in  1868  they 
urged  the  appointment  of  an  ordained  minister.  Through 
the  effective  appeals  of  Dr.  M'Lauchlan,  convener  of  the  High- 
land Committee,  a  sum  of  £500  was  raised  as  an  endowment, 
which,  added  to  the  other  allowances,  enabled  the  Church  to 
send  a  minister,  and  in  1865,  Mr.  John  Mackay  was  ordained 
by  the  Presbytery  of  Skye  and  Uist  as  missionary"  to  St.  Kilda. 
Thus  after  long  delay,  and  privations  patiently  borne,  the 
Church  has  been  enabled  to  plant  among  her  faithful  adherents 
in  St.  Kilda  one  from  whose  hands  they  can  receive  all  religious 
privileges  and  ordinances.* 

*  Blue  Book  Eeport,  1866,  p.  7. 


700  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 


LV.  Rural  Districts. 

We  must  now  speak  of  those  rural  districts  in  the  Lowlands,  to 
which  the  Disruption  brought  the  most  signal  blessings.  The 
need  in  many  cases  was  very  great.  At  various  points  the 
opening  of  iron  works  and  large  factories  had  drawn  together 
masses  of  workmen,  under  circumstances  most  adverse  to  their 
moral  and  religious  welfare ;  while  in  many  of  our  retired  rural 
parishes  moderatism  had  long  held  sway,  and  had  brought  the 
people  into  a  low  state  of  indifference  and  carelessness.  This 
was  the  result,  even  where  the  moderate  clergy  were  personally 
respected. 

In  many  cases  there  was  such  laxity  of  doctrine  among  them, 
and  such  coldness  and  indifference  on  the  subject  of  religion,  as 
could  not  fail  to  have  a  most  injurious  effect  on  their  people. 
In  the  Disruption  Mss.,  for  example,  one  is  referred  to  who,  for 
upwards  of  fifty  years,  held  a  prominent  place  in  an  important 
provincial  town.  "  After  preaching  for  him,"  the  writer  says, 
"  while  a  very  young  man,  the  doctrine  of  justification  by  faith 
alone,  which  had  been  stated  in  the  sermon,  was  impugned  by 
him  in  private  as  having  no  foundation  in  God's  Word,  and  a 
conversation,  or  rather  discourse — for  he  was  the  only  speaker 
— having  arisen  as  to  what  should  be  a  young  man's  studies 
and  mode  of  preaching,  his  advice  was  given,  with  a  warmth 
approaching  to  bitterness,  to  shun  all  systematic  theology — to 
study  such  books  as  tend  to  enlarge  and  liberalise  the  mind, 
and  it  was  closed  with  this  sentence,  too  memorable  to  be 
forgotten  as  coming  from  the  lips  of  one  who  had  signed  the 
Confession  of  Faith — '  I  do  not  mean  that  you  should  fly  in  the 
face  of  public  prejudice,  but,  whatever  a  man  preaches,  he  may 
have  his  own  opinions.' " 


RURAL  DISTRICTS.  701 

Without  giving  more  of  these  details,  howevei,  it  may  be 
enough  to  refer  to  the  statements  of  Dr.  DufiF,  the  great  Indian 
missionary,  who  knew  the  whole  party  well,  having  gone 
familiarly  among  their  manses  from  1835  to  1840.  His 
reminiscences,  as  given  in  his  biography  by  Dr.  Smith,*  show 
only  too  plainly  the  state  in  which  he  found  them.  They  were 
farmers  and  politicians  whose  conversation  was  divided  between 
agricultural  talk  and  political  criticism.  "  I  do  not'  remember," 
he  said,  "  of  their  volunteering  any  remarks  on  the  vastly  higher 
subject  of  the  spiritual  culture  of  the  human  mind."  He  gives 
a  sad  picture  of  the  intemperance  and  other  evils  which  he 
found  prevailing  among  them,  especially  in  the  Highlands.  At 
the  upper  end  of  a  long  strath,  for  example,  there  lived  a  parish 
minister  who  was  scarcely  ever  known  to  be  sober.  Another 
parish  was  a  preserve  of  smugglers,  whose  rendezvous  was  the 
kirk,  where  the  little  barrels  of  Highland  whisky  were  concen- 
trated before  despatch  to  the  south.  Further  north,  Dr.  DufF 
found  himself  the  inhabitant  of  a  room  in  the  manse  which  was 
curiously  stained.  On  asking  an  explanation  he  was  told  that, 
as  the  most  secure  place,  the  attics  had  long  been  the  storehouse 
of  the  smugglers  of  Hollands  and  small  sacks  of  salt.  .  .  .  The 
manse  had  been  arranged  for  the  purpose  of  receiving  the 
contraband  articles,  which  were  hoisted  up  by  a  pulley  swung 
from  a  hook  projecting  from  the  window  in  the  high-pointed 
gable.  The  plaster  of  the  roof  below  was  saturated  with  salt, 
which  appeared  in  moist  weather." 

"With  such  men  as  its  representatives,  religion  itself  must 
have  been  in  danger  of  dying  out,  and  in  such  parishes  one  can 
well  understand  how  cordially  the  Disruption  was  welcomed  by 
the  most  earnest-minded  among  the  people.  "The  restraints 
and  delicacies  of  the  old  parochial  system,"  says  Dr.  Grierson 
of  Errol,t  "  have  been  removed.  The  Gospel  has  been  fully 
and  energetically  proclaimed  in  many  a  neighbourhood  and 
many  a  house  to  which  it  had  been  practically  denied." 

In  entering  on  their  work.  Free  Church  ministers  in  such 
localities  had  sometimes  strange  evidence  presented  to  them  of 
how  much  their  services  were  needed. 

*  Life,  ii.  pp.  5-7.  t  Disr.  Mss.  xL 


702  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

Dr.  G.  Ramsay  Davidson  —  Lady  Glenorchy's,  Edinburgh — 
mentions  a  singular  welcome  which  he  met  with  in  the  North, 
on  entering  a  private  house  for  the  purpose  of  holding  a 
religious  service.  "  An  old  woman,  a  warm  sympathiser  with 
our  work,  accosted  me — 'Come  awa',  sir,  weel  a  wat  ye're 
.welcome  here !  Aye,  ye're  like  your  work,' — looking  hard  at 
him, — 'ye're  no  like  the  red-cheekit  anes  that  we  hae  here 
aboot.'"* 

Mr.  Hutchison  of  Uddingston,  afterwards  of  Johnstone,  had 
gone  among  the  iron-workers  of  an  Ayrshire  parish,  and  tells 
how  on  meeting  one  of  the  miners,  and  asking  what  religious 
denomination  he  belonged  to,  the  man  replied  with  all  frankness: 
"  I  belong  to  the  horse  religion."  "  Well,"  said  Mr.  Hutchison, 
"  I  know  a  little  of  the  different  religious  sects,  but  that  is  one 
I  never  heard  of.  What  may  its  tenets  be?"  Again  the  man 
frankly  answered :  "  Work  a'  week  and  grass  i'  the  Sabbath." 
It  was  a  state  of  matters  calling  for  the  most  energetic  efforts, 
and  it  was  not  long  before  a  Free  Church  congregation  began 
vigorous  operations  in  the  place. 

In  a  rural  parish  in  the  North,  a  minister  who  had  preached 
with  much  acceptance  reports  the  impressive  saying  of  one  of 
the  people.  At  the  close  of  his  service,  an  old  man  came  up 
and  said :  "  Sir,  we  were  but  ill  prepared  here  for  the  Disruption. 
We  were  in  a  sad  state  when  it  occurred,  but  it  has  given  lis  a 
chance  of  etei^al  life," — a  simple  remark  which  came  home 
with  startling  effect  on  the  mind  of  the  preacher. 

Even  before  the  Disruption,  there  were  parishes  in  which  the 
preaching  of  evangelical  ministers  was  hailed  with  delight  as  a 
foretaste  of  better  things.  "  I  remember  when  I  was  a  boy," 
writes  Mr.  Hall,  farmer  at  Braehead  of  Leslie,  Aberdeenshire, 
in  a  letter  to  Dr.  G.  Eamsay  Davidson,  "any  time  that 
you,  Mr.  Manson  of  Fyvie,  or  Mr.  Garioch  of  Old  Meldrum, 
got  into  the  pulpit,  the  tremendous  difference  I  felt.  I  do  not 
mean  to  say  that  I  distinguished  between  the  Gospel  truths 
spoken  by  you,  and  the  dry  moral  nonsense — neither  law  nor 
Gospel — we  were  accustomed  to ;  but  your  intense  earnest 
manner  and  the  grasp  it  took  of  my  soul,  together  with  the 
*  Disr.  Mss.  Iviii. 


RURAL  DISTRICTS.  703 

remarks  of  my  parents  going  home,  brought  me  in  love  with 
the  evangelical  ministers,  which  has  never  for  one  moment 
cooled,  and  never  will  while  reason  retains  her  seat." 

The  urgent  requests  made  for  the  services  of  such  ministers 
pressed  heavily  on  their  energies.  "  When  I  look  back,"  says 
Dr.  G.  Ramsay  Davidson,*  "  on  the  incessant  demands  made  ou 
my  time  and  strength  in  those  days,  and  from  so  many  quarters, 
I  marvel  now  how  I  possibly  could  have  stood  it.  By  notes  I 
have  in  my  possession,  I  find  that,  on  one  occasion,  I  rode  on 
horseback  more  than  forty  miles  and  preached  three  times  the 
same  day.  Returning  on  Saturday  from  Rhynie,  where  I  had 
been  preaching,  and  doing  like  work  in  other  parishes  during 
the  week,  I  had  just  remarked  to  my  wife  that  this  would  never 
do — I  must  now  give  the  bulk  of  my  work  to  my  own  people. 
On  reaching  home,  however,  I  found  '  a  man  from  Culsalmond 
waiting  for  me,  entreating  me  to  come  over  on  the  morrow,  for 
there  would  be  a  great  gathering.'  I  objected  so  far  as  I  could, 
reminding  he  himself  had  a  brother,  a  probationer — why  not 
send  him  ?  This,  he  said,  was  out  of  the  question  :  the  people 
would  be  so  disappointed.  It  was  the  first  Sabbath  of  the  year, 
and  I  had  resolved  to  preach  to  my  own  people  at  Drumblade. 
Finally,  we  settled  it  that  his  brother  should  come  over  to 
preach  to  my  people  in  the  morning,  and  announce  that  I 
should  preach  in  the  afternoon.  When  I  reached  Culsalmond, 
I  found  such  a  concourse  gathered  that  the  grain  loft  intended 
for  the  service  would  not  nearly  accommodate  them.  There 
was  nothing  for  it,  therefore,  but  that  I  must  preach  in  an  open 
stack-yard,  the  snow  falling  the  most  of  the  time.  I  blessed 
God  for  that  service,  for  many  were  not  merely  impressed  at 
the  time,  but  I  have  had  reported  to  me  by  letter,  years  after  I 
removed  to  Edinburgh,  the  saving  fruits  of  that  day." 

As  the  town  of  Keith  was  tlie  most  important  in  Strathbogie, 
special  attention  was  directed  to  it,  and  for  the  first  celebration 
of  the  ordinance  of  the  Lord's  Supper  a  select  number  of  elders 
were  sent  to  officiate.  "  I  do  not  remember  the  whole,  but  I 
know  that  James  Hog,  Esq.  of  Newliston,  L.  Craigie,  Esq.  of 
Glendoick,  and  Robert  Bruce,  Esq.  of  Kennet,  were  of  the 
*  Disr.  Mss.  Iviii.,  p.  9. 


704  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

uumber.  On  one  of  the  days  I  preached  in  the  gardens  adjoin- 
ing. The  subject  was  the  call  and  conversion  of  Zacchseus. 
On  describing  the  scene  of  Christ's  approach  and  his  address 
to  Zacchseus  in  the  tree,  being  in  the  open  air,  and  seeing 
close  by  a  tree  of  thick  foliage,  I  said,  naturally  enough,  that 
it  might  be  such  a  tree  as  that  to  which  I  pointed.  I  observed 
a  peculiar  look  and  smile  pass  over  the  countenances  of  my 
hearers,  which  I  could  not  understand  at  the  time ;  but  it 
turned  out  that  one  of  the  Old  Church  adherents,  anxious  to 
spy  the  land,  had  been  discovered  by  them  perched  within  the 
branches  of  this  very  tree,  to  which,  unconscious  of  his  presence, 
I  had  pointed,  and  I  was  told  that  for  long  afterwards  he  was 
known  by  the  name  of  "  Zacchseus," 

"  I  preached  the  action  sermon  from  a  tent  placed  on  the 
market  muir  outside  the  town,  and  then  adjourned  to  hold  the 
table  services  in  a  Secession  church,  kindly  placed  at  our 
disposal  for  the  day.  I  was  assisted  on  that  and  the  other  days 
by  the  Rev.  David  Thorburn,  of  Leith ;  Mr.  Davidson,  of 
Broughty-Ferry ;  and  Mr.  Patrick  Miller,  afterwards  of  Dundee. 
It  proved  a  most  interesting  and  solemn  occasion.  On  the 
Thursday  before  serving  out  tokens,  every  room  in  the  house 
we  occupied  was  filled  with  anxious  men  and  women,  many  of 
the  stoutest  men  in  tears,  confessing  their  past  sins,  and  the  sin 
especially  of  unworthy  communicating.  The  place  was  verily  a 
Bochim." 

For  some  time  after  the  Disruption,  all  that  the  Church 
could  do  was  required  to  meet  the  spiritual  wants  of  her  own 
adherents ;  but  in  1846  it  was  felt  that  some  systematic  efibrt 
must  be  made  to  reach  the  outside  rural  population.  Twelve 
ministers  were  sent  on  a  preaching  tour  among  the  more 
necessitous  districts,  and  after  the  work  of  a  month  reported 
that,  besides  private  pastoral  visitation,  240  sermons  had  been 
preached,  and  with  results  so  encouraging  that  next  season  the 
number  of  deputies  was  increased.  It  was  the  commencement 
of  a  work  which  has  since  continued  and  been  prosecuted  with 
much  success. 

Sometimes  the  reports  of  the  deputies  disclosed  a  sad  state 
of  religious  destitution.     In   one   of  the   mining  districts,  for 


RURAL  DISTRICTS.  705 

example,  a  population  of  70,000  were  found  living  together, 
among  whom,  it  was  reported,  there  was  almost  universal 
deadness  in  regard  to  spiritual  things.  "  I  have  visited  thirty  or 
forty  families  in  a  row  of  houses,  not  three  of  whom  went  to 
any  church.  Many  who  once  attended  cliurch  elsewhere, 
had  given  it  up.  Their  state  is  truly  deplorable.  One  cannot 
overrate  the  necessity  of  such  districts  being  energetically  dealt 
with.  I  preached  forty-five  times,  in  churches,  schoolrooms, 
and  the  open  air."  * 

The  work  required  peculiar  qualifications  in  the  preacher. 
"  It  must  be  an  earnest,  aggressive  agency.  You  must  carry 
the  Gospel  to  them :  they  will  not  come  to  you  for  it.  You 
umst  go  and  seek  them  in  their  own  homes  at  meal  times  ;  in  the 
evening,  after  their  day's  toil  is  over ;  at  the  forge,  the  furnace, 
the  mine  head,  the  quarry.  You  must  continue  patiently  and 
lovingly  to  seek  them,  before  you  will  find  them  for  good,  and 
lead  them  to  God  and  to  His  house,  and  His  holy  heaven."  -f- 

It  may  be  right  to  give  an  example  of  how  these  operations 
were  carried  on.  "  I  began  on  the  14th  July,  and  continued  to 
the  28th  of  same  month.  During  these  two  weeks  I  visited 
.jOO  houses,  spending  more  or  less  time  with  the  resident 
families.  I  had  the  opportunity  of  preaching  fourteen  times, 
twelve  times  out-of-doors  and  twice  under  roof  The  audiences 
varied  from  80  to  150.  On  one  occasion  there  were  250 
present,  and  on  another  no  fewer  than  820  in  attendance — 
mostly  all  the  class  sought — viz.,  non-church-goers.  It  was 
deeply  interesting  to  watch  the  appearance  and  behaviour  of 
these  people.  The  countenances  of  some  of  them  betokened 
the  vacancy  of  their  minds,  and  plainly  showed  that  they  had 
long  been  unused  to  a  preached  Gospel.  Others  seemed  anxious 
to  understand  the  meaning  of  the  words  spoken,  and  looked  as 
if  they  were  comprehending  it.  A  few  shed  tears,  as  if  the 
remembrance  of  other  days  were  melting  their  hearts.  Indeed, 
the  large  majority  were  most  attentive,  and  appeared  to  be  most 
impressible,  so  that  one  could  not  but  rejoice  to  have  such  a 
soil  on  which  to  cast  the  good  seed  of  the  kingdom. 

*  Blue  Book,  1847,  pp.  182,  183. 
+  Home  and  Foreign  Miss.  Record,  December,  1857. 

•2Z 


706  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

"  These  out-of-door  meetings  are  becoming  well  understood 
in  the  neighbourhood.  Soon  as  the  preacher  arrives  in  the 
evening,  at  the  row  or  the  square  where  he  has  been  visiting 
during  the  day,  some  one  is  ready  to  bring  out  a  table  and  a 
chair  for  his  -use.  All  at  once  the  people  begin  to  gather — 
women  with  their  stools,  workmen  without  their  coats,  little 
children  in  groups.  By  the  time  the  psalm  is  sung,  and  a 
short  prayer  offered,  your  congregation  is  assembled,  and  ar- 
ranged in  all  possible  postures  and  attitudes.  One  seats  him- 
self on  the  ground,  another  lies  on  it  as  if  he  were  about  to 
swim,  a  third  reclines  on  a  hedge  or  leans  on  a  wall,  while  a 
fourth  stands  bolt  upright,  and  fixes  his  eyes  upon  you  during 
the  whole  of  the  service.  All  are  respectful,  and  usually,  at  the 
close  of  the  exercises,  some  of  the  hearers  remain  to  express 
their  thanks  and  invite  you  back  again.  On  one  occasion,  a 
few  papists  stood  at  a  little  distance  and  made  a  considerable 
noise,  as  if  for  the  purpose  of  disturbing  us.  No  attention  was 
paid  to  the  interruption,  and  it  soon  ceased.  On  another  occa- 
sion, two  drunken  men  placed  themselves  a  few  yards  from  my 
table  and  commenced  to  utter  all  sorts  of  discordant  sounds.  I 
was  very  much  put  out.  At  length,  a  sturdy-looking  labourer 
in  the  audience  removed  the  two  disturbers  to  a  neighbouring 
house,  and  returned  to  his  place.  All  the  while,  the  attention 
of  the  people  was  never  lost,  I  mention  these  circumstances  to 
show  the  thorough  hold  we  get  of  these  out-door  audiences. 

"  The  last  meeting  I  addressed  was  the  most  interesting  I  ever 
saw.  I  had  said  to  the  people  the  evening  before,  that  I  had 
seen  habits  and  practices  among  them  about  which  I  should  like 
to  speak  to  them  before  leaving.  At  the  hour  appointed  there 
were  upwards  of  120  working  men  present,  besides  women  and 
children. 

"The  evil  practices  discoursed  upon  were  drunkenness,  pro- 
fane swearing,  Sabbath  breaking,  neglect  of  public  ordinances, 
family  mismanagement,  &c.  All  present  were  living  in  one  or 
more  of  these  sins.  Still  they  listened  with  much  apparent 
earnestness  to  a  very  plain  condemnation  of  them.  May  God 
lead  to  a  forsaking  of  these  great  evils."* 

*  Missionary  Record,  March,  1859. 


KURAL  DISTRICTS.  707 

Sometimes  strange  incidents  served  to  test  the  earnestness 
both  of  preacher  and  hearers.     "  I  preached  a  third  time,"  says 
another,  "  in  the  open  air.     About  an  hour  before  the  service 
commenced,  we  had  a  heavy  thunder-shower,  so  that  I  feared 
we  could  not  expect  a  large  audience  on  the  wet  grass  ;  but,  on 
proceeding  to  the  green,  I  found  a  more  formidable  obstacle  in 
the  way.     The  spot  which  I  intended  to  occupy  was  in  posses- 
sion of  a  clown  and  harlequin,  who  were  surrounded  by  a  dense 
circle  of  gaping  and  wondering  auditors,  while  peals  of  laughter 
from  time  to  time  showed  that  their  interest  was  awakened,  and 
that  they  were  not  in  the  fittest  state  of  mind  for  listening  to 
things  belonging  to  their  everlasting  peace.    I  resolved,  however, 
to  make  the  attempt,  and  took  my  station  within  100  yards 
from  the  crowd,  so  that  the  two  speakers  could  distinctly  hear 
the  sound  of  each  other's  voices.     On  giving  out  the  first  psalm 
a  slight  shower  fell,  and  strange  to  say,  whether  it  was  owino-  to 
one  or  both  of  these  causes,  the  clown's  circle  was  immediately 
broken  up,  and  not  only  his  whole  audience  but  himself,  after 
washing  the  paint  from  his  face  and  slipping  off  his  fantastic 
dress,  came   to   hear   the    sermon,  and  waited   patiently  and 
listened  attentively  till  the  service  was  concluded.      Findino- 
that  the  ground  was  deserted,  I  immediately  took  possession  of 
it.     The  number  present  could  not  be  less  than  300,  and  most 
of  them  were  men.     I  never  saw  a  more  attentive  audience, 
and  several  young  men  especially  attracted  my  notice  by  their 
earnest  and  eager  looks.     It  was   a   scene  that  would  have 
warmed    the    coldest    heart,  and   roused  the    most    sluggish 
spirit."* 

There  were  great  benefits  arising  out  of  this  work,  not  only 
to  the  people  but  to  the  ministers  who  were  engaged  in  it. 
"  They  were  all  in  great  danger,"  as  Dr.  Main,  of  St.  Mary's,  said, 
"  of  falling  into  a  routine  perfunctory  style  in  the  discliarge  of 
duty,  satisfied  with  doing  their  best  without  aiming  directly  and 
immediately  at  the  conversion  of  the  souls  of  men.  He  knew 
nothing  so  fitted  to  shake  a  man  out  of  that  style  as  to  set  him 
with  the  highway  for  his  pulpit  and  the  open  firmament  of 
heaven  for  his  canopy,  to  deal  face  to  face  with  men  whom  he 
*  Missionarij  Record,  December,  1857. 


706  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION, 

had  never  seen  before  and  might  never  see  again,  having  but  a 
few  short  days  to  dwell  among  them.  He  is  made  to  feel  that 
whatever  he  means  to  do,  he  must  do  with  all  his  might.  A 
man  in  that  position  is  driven  back  to  the  great  central  truths 
of  the  glorious  Gospel,  and  to  bring  these  to  bear  directly  and 
immediately  on  the  consciences  and  hearts  of  men.  He  would 
cease  to  reason  before  them  and  begin  to  reason  with  them  in 
the  way  of  earnest  and  pleading  importunity,  striving  to  prevail 
with  the  people  in  regard  to  preaching,  just  as  the  old  patriarch 
did  in  regard  to  praying, — for  as  the  one  hung  on  the 
Almighty  and  said  he  would  not  let  Him  go  unless  He  blessed 
him,  so  would  the  other  hang  on  the  people,  unwilling  to  let 
them  go  until  they  had  surrendered  their  hearts  to  the  Lord 
Jesus."  * 

In  this  way,  what  Mr.  M'Naughtan,  then  of  Paisley,  says  of 
Dr.  Macfarlane,  of  Renfrew,  was  equally  true  of  many  of  his 
brethren: — "The  Disruption  produced  a  most  evident  and,  I 
believe,  a  most  beneficial  change  in  the  pulpit  ministrations  of 
our  beloved  friend.  His  style  of  address  became  decidedly 
more  popularised.  From  the  cast  of  his  mind,  his  discourses 
had  been  somewhat  metaphysical  in  their  structure.  His  new 
position,  however, — the  necessity  of  addressing  men  in  barns, 
in  fields,  and  on  the  mountain  side, — seemed  wondrously  to 
simplify  his  style  of  thought  and  manner  of  expression ;  and 
hence,  while  his  sermons  gained  largely  in  the  qualities  that 
rendered  them  more  generally  useful,  they  lost  nothing  of  that 
richness  of  illustration,  that  depth  of  thought  and  fulness  of 
exposition,  that  rendered  them  so  acceptable  to  the  scholar  and 
the  advanced  Christian."  -|- 

One  other  example  we  give,  from  the  experience  of  one  of  the 
deputies,  Mr.  Cormick,  of  Kirriemuir,  a  youthful  minister  whose 
early  death  was  a  cause  of  lamentation  to  many.  He  had  gone, 
on  the  16th  July,  1848,  on  a  preaching  deputation,  returning 
home  on  9th  August,  after  conducting  service  twenty-eight 
times.  "  So  far  as  God  gave  me  grace,"  he  says,  "  I  endea- 
voured, with  all  the  tenderness  and  earnestness  in  my  power, 

*  Blue  Book,  1860,  p.  78. 

+  Life  of  Eev.  D.  Macfarlane,  D.D.,  p.  132. 


RURAL  DISTRICTS.  709 

to  deal  with  the  souls  of  men,  in  order  that  all  who  heard  the 
Word  from  my  mouth  might  be  led  to  serious  consideration  of 
the  things  that  pertained  to  their  peace.  What  the  result  will 
be,  the  day  will  declare ;  but  if  there  has  been  even  one  soul 
awakened  and  brought  to  Christ,  I  will  rejoice."  "  I  preached 
thirteen  times  in  the  open  air.  After  sermon  I  distributed 
some  tracts,  and  spoke  to  the  people  as  often  as  I  could  about 
their  souls.  This  gave  me  an  opportunity  of  knowing  some- 
thing of  their  spiritual  state."  The  whole  district,  so  far  as  1 
could  discover,  is  very  barren.  Oh,  what  a  call  is  made  to  us 
ministers,  to  preach  for  eternity  !  * 

The  work  carried  on  in  this  spirit  might  well  be  expected  to 
be  crowned  with  success.  Instead,  however,  of  giving  any 
general  statements  on  the  subject,  it  may  be  best  to  take  one  or 
two  actual  examples  of  how  the  good  seed  took  root  even  in  the 
most  unpromising  localities. 

Among  the  ironworkers  at  Muirkirk,  Ayrshire,  the  beginnings 
of  the  movement  were  discouraging.  After  the  Disruption,  the 
parish  was  visited  by  Mr.  Hutchison  of  Uddingston,  who 
preached  and  gave  addresses.  A  few  of  the  people  were  formed 
into  an  association  to  see  what  they  could  do  in  the  way  of 
providing  for  ordinances ;  but  at  first  the  success  was  not 
great.  Between  the  2nd  August  and  25th  September  they 
had  collected  a  sum  of  only  16s.  7d.  Still,  in  the  face  of 
difficulties,  the  work  was  carried  on.  In  December,  Mr. 
Hutchison  dispensed  the  communion,  when  about  ninety 
persons  joined.  Thereafter  the  appearances  were  more  pro- 
mising. In  March,  a  prayer  meeting  was  begun;  in  April, 
three  elders  were  ordained;  in  May,  a  site  for  a  church  was  got; 
in  July,  120  persons  sat  down  at  the  communion.  On  the 
second  Sabbath  of  April  the  church  was  opened,  the  collection 
being  twenty  guineas,  and  by  the  end  of  1845  they  had  an 
earnest  minister  ordained  over  the  congregation,  with  G  ciders, 
8  deacons,  IGG  communicants,  and  the  funds  steadily  in- 
creasing.-f- 

Another  example,  very  different  in  its  incidents,  we  take  from 

*  Blue  Book,  1848,  p.  237. 
+  Disr.  Mss.  iiL 


710  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

a  rural  parish  in  the  North.  The  minister  had  belonged  to  the 
evangelical  party,  and  had  voted  with  them  during  the  conflict — 
a  good  man  who  had  little  force  of  character,  and  who  failed  in 
the  day  of  trial 

In  a  remote  corner  of  the  parish  there  lived  a  godly  elder, 
a  small  farmer,  who  kept  a  Sabbath  school  and  was  much 
respected.  Along  with  a  few  of  his  neighbours,  he  left  the 
Establishment  at  the  Disruption,  and  joined  the  Free  Church  in 
a  neighbouring  congregation. 

"  One  of  the  largest  farms  in  the  parish  was  held  by  a  gentle- 
man of  the  old  school,  a  man  of  influence  in  the  district.  He 
was  a  Conservative  in  politics  and  wrote  ably  on  that  side,  and 
being  an  elder  in  the  Established  Church,  he  was  accustomed 
to  speak  much  of  the  duty  of  holding  up  the  law  of  the  land 
against  the  Non-intrusionists.  No  one  could  have  thought  that 
ere  long  he  himself  would  take  a  Eree  Church  station  under 
his  wing,  give  it  help,  and  ultimately  become  a  member. 
A  few  months  after  the  Disruption,  his  eldest  daughter  was  the 
means  of  beginning  the  Free  Church  movement  in  the  place. 
An  old  house  was  got  which  had  formerly  been  a  dwelling- 
house,  and  was  then  used  as  a  carpenter's  shop.  Preaching 
was  begun,  the  neighbouring  Free  Church  ministers  coming 
to  officiate.  The  godly  elder  formerly  referred  to,  along 
with  his  neighbours,  at  once  joined,  and  very  soon  the  old 
house  assumed  a  new  appearance.  When  first  taken  possession 
of,  it  was  rough  enough.  One  half  of  it  formed  the  carpenter's 
shop,  the  other  half  was  a  byre ;  so  that  in  conducting  the 
service,  the  preacher  took  his  stand  beside  the  old  fire-place,  he 
and  his  audience  being  in  one  end  of  the  house,  and  the  cows 
and  straw  in  the  other,  with  only  a  wooden  partition  five  feet 
high  between.  This  was  soon  changed.  The  house  was 
cleared,  a  wing  was  thrown  out,  and  the  whole  neatly  lined 
with  wood — roof  and  sides.  It  looked  like  a  good  cabin  in 
a  large  ship,  holding  150  to  200  hearers,  and  was  very  com- 
fortable. 

"  Among  others  who  came  to  officiate  was  Dr.  M'Lagan,  Pro- 
fessor of  Divinity  in  Aberdeen,  and  on  some  one  remarking  to 
him  that  children  had  been  born  in  the  old  house,  he  quietly 


RURAL  DISTRICTS.  711 

said,  in  his  earnest,  beautiful  way  : — "  Well,  I  hope  that  of  it 
the  Word  may  be  true, — that,  in  the  highest  sense,  this  man, 
and  that  man  was  born  there." 

"  Ere  long  the  work  began  more  decidedly  to  take  shape.  The 
services  of  a  preacher  were  obtained,  a  Sabbath  school  and 
Bible  class  were  begun,  the  number  of  adherents  increased,  and 
the  station  continued  to  advance. 

"  It  had  been  said  by  the  supporters  of  the  Estacblished  Churcli 
that  the  whole  movement  depended  on  the  two  elders  above 
referred  to,  and  when  the  one  was  "  awa'  and  the  other  was 
deid,  the  Free  Kirk  would  come  to  naething."  Both  events 
occurred.  The  elder  who  first  joined  emigrated  to  Canada, 
where,  after  a  long  life  of  Christian  usefulness,  he  died  at  the 
age  of  eighty-two.  The  latter  died  a  few  years  after  he  joined 
the  Free  Church,  and  his  family  removed  from  the  parish ;  but 
the  station  continued  to  develop  self-sustaining  powers.  A 
new  Free  Church  was  built,  and  ere  long  a  comfortable  manse 
was  added,  and  the  congregation,  with  a  roll  of  150  members, 
has  taken  its  place  as  a  sanctioned  charge  of  the  Free 
Church." 

It  would  be  easy  to  multiply  examples,  showing  how,  in  this 
way,  from  small  beginnings,  the  congregations  of  the  Free 
Church  rose  into  importance.  It  is  of  more  consequence,  how- 
ever, to  refer  to  the  beneficial  results  of  such  movements. 
As  an  example,  we  take  the  experience  of  a  minister  settled  in 
1844,  who  in  1864  describes  the  favourable  change  which  he 
has  witnessed.  The  moral  tone  of  the  people,  he  says,  is 
better.  Every  way  they  stand  on  a  higher  platform  than  they 
did  twenty  years  ago.  The  social  immorality  of  the  district 
had  been  advancing  at  a  fearful  rate.  It  is  the  sin  of  the 
district.  There  have  been  nineteen  illegitimate  births  last  year 
in  the  parish,  with  the  population  of  2600 ;  but  of  these  nine- 
teen only  two  were  in  connection  with  the  Free  Church  congre- 
gation, which  numbers  about  1260  of  the  population.  For  the 
last  two  or  three  years  the  above  is  the  proportion  of  illegitimate 
births  in  our  congregation.  "  The  sin  of  drunkenness  has  greatly 
decreased  in  the  district.  I  believe  it  is  less  by  one-half  within 
these  twenty  years.     We  have  not  a  public-house  in  the  parish, 


712  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

only  a  good  inn..    Twenty  years  ago,  there  were  six  public- 
houses,  besides  the  inn."* 

It  was  not  the  mere  multiplying  of  congregations,  or  adding 
to  the  number  of  adherents  that  was  the  great  object  at  which 
the  Free  Church  aimed — it  was  the  conversion  of  sinners  and 
the  awakening  of  a  warmer  spiritual  life  among  professing 
Christians  who  belonged  to  her  communion. 

*  Blue  Book,  1864,  Report,  p.  7. 


SABBATH  OBSERVAJSrCK  713 


LVI.  Sabbath  Obseevancb,     • 

One  of  the  first  subjects  in  connection  with  which  the  revived 
life  of  the  Church  showed  itself  was  the  desire  for  a  more  strict 
observance  of  the  Lord's  Day.  Not  long  before  the  Disruption 
the  Christian  public  of  Scotland  had  been  agitated  by  the  pro- 
posal to  open  the  railways  for  Sabbath  traffic,  and  no  sooner  had 
the  Free  Church  made  good  her  position  in  the  country  than  the 
question  was  zealously  taken  up.  The  Scottish  Church  had 
from  the  first  in  her  catechisms  and  Confession  laid  down  the 
duty  of  Sabbath  observance  more  fully  than  any  of  the  other 
Churches  of  the  Reformation,  and  in  practice  there  had  been  a 
corresponding  strictness  among  the  people.  To  a  great  extent, 
indeed,  this  had  begun  to  be  relaxed,  but  when  the  Disruption 
took  place  the  hope  was  fondly  cherished  in  many  quarters  that 
the  event  might  be  the  means  of  bringing  back  much  of  the 
spirit  and  practice  of  better  days. 

It  might  seem  indeed  as  if  the  change  of  1843  had  placed  the 
Free  Church  at  a  disadvantage.  Parish  ministers  had,  or  were 
supposed  to  have,  a  certain  power  of  legally  enforcing  the  duty 
of  Sabbath  observance,  and  this  of  course  had  passed  out  of 
their  hands.  It  was  soon  felt,  however,  that  in  the  Free  Church 
they  really  stood  on  a  higher  platform,  when  they  rested  their 
appeals,  not  on  the  ground  of  Statute  law,  but  on  the  claims  of 
morality  and  religion,  and  on  the  duty  which  men  owed  to  their 
own  souls  and  to  God.  It  was  well  known,  indeed,  that  the 
most  zealous  friends  of  Sabbath  observance  had  usually  been 
found  among  the  Seceders.  "In  our  boyhood,"  Dr.  Candlish  said, 
"  dissenter  was  another  name  for  one  who  was  peculiarly  strict 
in  his  observance  of  the  Lord's  Day."  This  view  had  been 
confirmed  at  a  former  period  by  a  prominent  minister  of  the 


714  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

Established  Church,  Dr.  Irvine  of  Dunkeld.  "  I  think,"  he  says, 
writing;  in  1810,  "the  members  of  the  Secession  are,  generally 
speaking,  more  attentive  to  the  sanctifi cation  of  the  Lord's  Day 
than  others.  I  am  afraid  some  of  us  are  rather  lax  in  this  respect, 
and  God  knows  I  do  not  exempt  myself  from  blame.  As  our 
Church  is  sanctioned  by  law,  we  might,  if  we  did  not  fear  to 
oflfend  men,  with  more  propriety  call  upon  the  magistrate  to  do 
his  duty.  But  from  one  reason  of  expediency  and  another 
time  passes  on,  the  evil  increases,  morals  are  corrupting, 
piety  is  undermined,  and  society  ripening  for  heavy  chastise- 
ments."* 

At  the  Glasgow  Assembly  of  1843,  Sir  Andrew  Agnew,  one 
of  the  noblest  of  our  Christian  patriots,  who  had  unflinchingly 
in  Parliament  upheld  the  cause  of  the  Sabbath,  made  a  powerful 
appeal,  urging  ministers  and  people  to  "  give  life  to  the  excellent 
standards  "  of  the  Church.  It  was  the  zeal  of  the  Free  Church  for 
the  Sabbath  that  made  him  love  her.  To  Principal  Fairbairn, 
then  of  Salton,  the  Assembly  was  indebted  for  a  singularly  able 
report  on  the  subject,  as  judicious  in  its  recommendations  as  it 
was  powerful  in  its  appeals.  The  Free  Church,  he  showed,  owed 
it  to  her  people  to  make  known  her  views  for  their  guidance. 
It  was  due  also  to  other  Churches  that  she  should  define  her 
position ;  standing  conspicuous  as  she  did  in  the  view  of  Christen- 
dom, her  testimony  on  the  Sabbath  question  could  not  fail  to  be 
influential  over  a  wide  circle.  Accordingly  the  great  principles 
on  which  the  duty  of  Sabbath  observance  rests  were  distinctly 
set  forth,  and  the  ground  was  laid  for  any  subsequent  procedure 
which  might  be  necessary.  Thus  from  the  first  year  of  our 
Church's  separation  from  the  State  she  was  enabled  to  show  her 
concern  for  the  due  observance  of  the  Lord's  Day. 

Two  years  afterwards  the  struggle  began.  The  railway  system 
was  on  the  eve  of  a  great  development,  connecting  us  more 
closely  with  England,  and  bringing  laxer  ideas  and  new  influ- 
ences to  bear  on  Scotland.  Plausible  reasons  were  given  for  run- 
ning a  single  Sabbath  train.  Then,  after  the  minds  of  men  had 
become  familiarised  with  it,  a  second  was  added,  and  so  the  evil 

*  Biographical  Notices  of  Rev.  W.  Taylor,  by  the  Rev.  J.  W,  Taylor, 
of  Flisk,  p.  156. 


SABBATH  OBSERVANCE.  716 

gradually  advanced,  threatening  to  break  down  the  sacredness  of 
the  Lord's  Day  as  hitherto  observed  in  Scotland.  "  I  feel  the  thing 
in  my  own  mind,"  Dr.  Candlish  exclaimed ;  "  I  desire  to  strive 
and  pray  against  it."  On  the  general  population  the  sight  of  these 
railway  trains  traversing  the  great  lines  of  traffic,  and  penetrat- 
ing every  district  of  the  country,  could  not  fail  to  have  a  most 
injurious  effect. 

In  view  of  such  dangers,  Christians  of  different  denominations 
combined,  resolving  to  use  all  their  influence  to  arrest  the  evil 
At  one  time  it  seemed  as  if  there  were  good  prospects  of  success. 
In  1847,  the  directors  of  the  Edinburgh  and  Glasgow  Railway 
resolved  to  stop  the  trains  hitherto  running,  and  the  following 
year  the  Scottish  Central  opened  with  the  resolution  that  no 
Sabbath  traffic  should  be  allowed  on  their  line. 

In  the  Free  Church  Assembly  these  announcements  were  joy- 
fully welcomed,  but  it  soon  appeared  that  such  rejoicing  was  pre- 
mature— the  progress  of  adverse  influences  was  too  powerful,  and 
railway  trains  were  soon  running  where  they  had  been  stopped. 
The  battle,  however,  was  not  given  up.  "  It  is  not  for  the  servants 
of  God,"  Mr.  Fairbairn  said,  "to  despair,*  but  resolutely  to  work, 
doing  what  they  can  to  leaven  the  public  mind  with  sound 
principles,"  so  that,  if  the  Sabbath  traffic  cannot  be  altogether 
arrested,  it  may  be  restrained  and  its  evils  minimised. 

In  connection  with  the  Post-Office,  also,  various  efforts  were 
made.  In  1848  there  were — besides  letter-carriers — about 
1000  persons  employed  in  the  post-offices  of  Scotland,  and 
three-fourths  of  these  had  to  work  on  Sabbaths.  As  if  this 
were  not  enough,  an  attempt  was  made  to  introduce  a  Sabbath 
delivery  of  letters  in  Edinburgh  all  over  the  town  ;  but  on  this 
occasion  the  friends  of  Sabbath  observance  were  successful — all 
classes  of  the  community  rising  to  resist  it.-j*  In  1850,  when 
Lord  Ashley  brought  in  a  bill  to  abolish  Sabbath  work  in  the 
post-offices  throughout  the  kingdom,  the  Town  Councils  of 
Glasgow  and  Edinburgh  petitioned  in  favour  of  it — the  former 
unanimously  ;  while  in  the  Edinburgh  Merchant  Company  the 
same  motion  was  carried  by  a  majority  of  60  to  18.  Such 
*  Blue  Book,  1845,  p.  19. 
t  Ibid.,  1848,  p.  256. 


71 C  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION 

movements   were  not   confined  to  any  denomination,  but  the 
Free  Church  put  forth  all  her  influence  in  their  support. 

The  whole  subject  excited  the  liveliest  interest.  Almost 
every  Synod  had  its  separate  committee  charged  to  watch  over 
the  observance  of  the  Lord's  Day  in  the  district.  An  annual 
sermon  was  appointed  to  be  preached  on  the  same  day  all  over 
the  Church.  Young  Men's  Sabbath  Observance  Societies  were 
formed,  the.  more  energetic  members  of  the  congregation  being 
thus  enlisted  in  the  cause ;  and  from  time  to  time  the  subject 
was  brought  forward  in  tracts  and  pastoral  addresses  distributed 
among  the  people. 

In  this  way  the  Church  sought  to  do  her  duty  as  guardian 
of  the  sacredness  of  the  Lord's  Day.  The  pulpit,  the  platform, 
and  the  press  were  all  called  into  requisition.  The  object  was 
to  have  the  claims  of  this  great  cause  made  to  take  a  firmer 
hold  on  the  minds  and  consciences  of  the  people — setting  forth 
the  principles  involved,  in  such  a  way  as  to  raise  the  standard 
of  Sabbath  observance.  It  was  thus,  by  exercising  her  influence 
for  good,  and  not  by  appealing  to  the  law  of  the  land,  that  the 
Free  Church  strove  to  meet  the  evils  of  railway  trains  and  post- 
office  work.  If  the  minds  of  her  own  members  could  only 
be  imbued  with  right  views  and  feelings,  and  if  in  their 
own  lives  there  was  consistent  Sabbath  observance,  they  were 
sufficiently  numerous  and  influential  to  make  the  power  of  their 
example  to  be  felt  in  the  land.  Year  after  year  the  subject 
occupied  a  large  share  of  attention  at  the  meetings  of  the 
Assembly.  It  was  felt  that  Scotland  and  the  Free  Church  were 
on  their  trial.  The  due  observance  of  the  Lord's  Day  was  an 
object  the  importance  of  which  it  was  impossible  to  over-estimate. 
"  Everything  dear  to  us,"  Mr.  Nixon  exclaimed,  "  is  at  stake. 
What  but  the  Sabbath  keeps  up  the  knowledge,  worship,  and 
fear  of  God  in  the  land  ?  What  but  it  preserves  in  remembrance 
the  finished  work  and  glorious  resurrection  of  Christ  ?  What 
else  can  secure  the  cultivation  and  practice  of  all  the  personal 
and  social  virtues  ?  What  else  can  be  so  efficacious  an  instru- 
ment in  leading  the  people  to  prepare  for  death,  and  for  the 
services  and  joys  of  heaven?  No  one  can  exaggerate  the 
calamities  which  would  follow  the  destruction  of  our  Scottish 


SABBATH  OBSERVANCE.  717 

Sabbath.  If  the  Sabbath  depart  from  us,  the  religion  and 
morality  of  our  people  will  depart  along  with  it.  Tlie  favour 
of  God,  which  has  hitherto  rested  so  remarkably  on  our  beloved 
country,  will  forsake  it,  and  it  will  go  down  under  His  just 
displeasure."* 

The  alarm  with  which  Dr.  Chalmers  viewed  the  encroach- 
ments of  Sabbath  desecration  in  the  country  was  emphatically 
expressed  :  "  It  should  be  recollected,"  he  said, "  'that  there  is  not 
a  peasantry  in  Europe  who  have  been  so  trained  by  the  good  old 
habits  and  observances  of  other  days  to  look  on  the  Sabbath  as 
forming  an  integral  part  of  Christianity,  or  in  whose  minds  the 
Sabbath  law  is  so  bound  up  and  associated  with  the  obligations 
of  deepest  sacredness.  You  cannot,  therefore,  bring  down  this 
law  from  its  wonted  authority  without  an  utter  dislocation,  or 
rather  dissolution,  of  the  religious  character  of  the  people  of 
Scotland,  and  the  inevitable  result  on  every  principle  of  human 
nature  must  be  a  more  rapid  and  ruinous  degeneracy  than  per- 
haps has  ever  taken  place  in  the  melancholy  decline  of  com- 
munities and  nations  from  the  virtues  of  their  older  and  better 
times."-|- 

Impressed  by  these  views,  the  Free  Church  has  not  ceased  to 
call  on  all  her  ministers,  office-bearers,  and  members  to  main- 
tain and  defend  the  sacredness  of  the  Lord's  Day.  Privately,  in 
the  intercourse  of  domestic  and  social  life — publicly,  by  means 
of  all  the  influence  and  efforts  which  could  be  brought  to  bear, 
it  was  their  duty  to  maintain  this  great  cause  with  which  so 
many  interests  were  bound  up.  In  view  of  the  world — in  view 
of  all  the  Churches — they  were  bound  to  honour  the  "  Lord  of 
the  Sabbath,"— to  "remember  the  Sabbath  day  to  keep  it 
holy." 

*  Blue  Book,  1848,  p.  260. 
+  Ibid.,  1864  ;  Report,  p.  4. 


718  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 


LVII.  Temperance. 

In  close  connection  with  Sabbath  observance,  the  subject  of 
Intemperance  was  earnestly  taken  up.  In  our  larger  towns 
especially,  the  desecration  of  the  Lord's  Day  and  the  degeneracy 
of  the  masses  was  to  a  large  extent  due  to  the  drinking  habits 
of  the  people.  Thus,  in  Glasgow  it  was  ascertained,  as  the  result 
of  careful  inquiry,  that  on  the  evening  of  Sabbath,  22nd  Novem- 
ber, 1846,  there  were  1317  places  open  for  the  sale  of  intoxi- 
cating drink,  and  many  of  the  scenes  witnessed  in  these  dram 
shops  and  spirit  shops  were  deplorable.  The  evils  of  drunken- 
ness, especially  in  connection  with  Sabbath  desecration,  were 
■'simply  appalling." 

Already  the  subject  had  been  pressed  on  the  General 
Assembly.  In  one  of  the  earlier  reports  on  the  state  of 
religion,  intemperance  was  denounced  as  the  great  hindrance 
to  the  spread  of  the  Gospel ;  the  Eree  Church  was  reminded 
that  her  very  position  demanded  that  she  should  deal  with  this 
stumbling-block ;  she  was  a  city  set  on  an  hill,  and  some  testi- 
mony as  regards  this  crying  evil  was  due  to  society,  and  due  to 
her  own  members,  if  she  would  be  faithful  to  the  cause  of  her 
great  Master.* 

In  1846  the  subject  was  again  brought  forward,  and  the 
Assembly  was  reminded  that  the  Free  Church  was  the  Church 
of  the  people — that  her  own  members  were  anxiously  watching 
her  movements ;  and  others  interested  in  the  temperance  cause 
were  looking  wistfully  to  see  whether  some  decided  step  would 
be  taken.  Accordingly,  a  day  was  appointed  on  which  all  the 
ministers  were  enjoined  to  preach  on  the  subject,  and  a  tract 

•  Blue  Book,  1845. 


TEMPERANCE.  Vl9 

warning  the  people  against  the  evils  of  intemperance  was  pre- 
pared for  distribution  at  the  same  time. 

Again,  in  1847,  a  still  more  decided  course  was  taken. 
Immediately  before  the  meeting  of  Assembly  a  conference  was 
held  of  those  ministers  and  elders  who  were  specially  interested 
in  the  cause,  and  it  was  resolved  to  ask  the  Assembly  to  appoint 
a  standing  committee  charged  with  the  duty  of  dealing  with  the 
subject.  The  language  of  the  report  becomes  more  emphatic. 
Intemperance  stands  in  the  way  of  every  attempt  to  reclaim 
the  irreligious.  In  many  cases  it  is  not  unlike  the  demoniacal 
possessions  common  during  our  Lord's  public  ministry.  Some- 
thing must  be  done  to  cast  out  the  demon  of  drunkenness.  The 
Free  Church  is  spoken  of  as  standing  between  the  living  and 
the  dead ;  "  God  seems  in  a  very  pointed  and  impressive 
manner  to  be  saying  to  this  Assembly:  'Cast  ye  up;  cast  ye 
up  ;  prepare  the  way ;  take  the  stumbling-block  out  of  the  way 
of  my  people  ! ' " 

To  give  effect  to  these  views,  the  Committee  was  strengthened, 
and  from  time  to  time  various  suggestions  were  offered. 
Temperance  societies  and  abstinence  societies  had  for  many 
years  been  at  work,  and  in  all  their  best  efforts  we  ought  to  bid 
them  God  speed.  For  the  Church,  however,  in  her  Assemblies  and 
other  courts,  it  was  necessary  carefully  to  consider  what  was 
incumbent.  Dr.  Cunningham,  speaking  as  one  who  had  long 
supported  the  temperance  cause,  laid  down  the  principle  that 
the  Church,  in  her  character  as  a  Church,  should  abstain  from 
broaching  schemes  or  plans  except  in  so  far  as  they  had  the 
express  sanction  of  God's  word.*  It  was  the  duty  of  the  Church 
to  give  more  attention  to  the  subject  than  she  had  yet  done, 
in  order  that  she  might  see  her  way  calmly,  deliberately, 
and  conscientiously,  to  the  adoption  of  the  principles  and  plans 
of  action  best  fitted  for  dealing  with  the  evils  of  prevailing 
intemperance. 

Year  after  year  the  subject  was  brought  forward,  and  different 
lines  of  action  were  suggested. 

The  Committee  of  the  Assembly  was  enlarged  in  order  to  have 
in  every  Synod  a  sectional  committee  instructed  to  counteract 
*  Blue  Book,  1847,  p.  245. 


720  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

the  evils  of  drunkenness,  each  in  its  own  district  seeking  at 
the  same  time  to  enlist  the  sympathies  of  the  general  public  in 
the  cause  of  temperance. 

The  House  of  Commons  was  approached  with  a  view  to 
having  a  better  licensing  system  introduced. 

The  ministers  of  the  Church  were  enjoined  to  give  pro- 
minence, in  their  pulpit  ministrations,  to  the  Scriptural 
denunciations  of  the  sin  of  drunkenness. 

Kirk-sessions  were  called  upon  to  exercise  greater  faithfulness 
in  dealing  with  such  offences,  guarding  the  purity  of  the  Church 
and  her  members  from  such  vicious  indulgence. 

Ministers,  and  office-bearers,  and  people  were  solemnly 
admonished  to  give  the  testimony  of  their  personal  example  in 
favour  of  temperance,  leading  lives  of  strict  sobriety,  and 
bringing  all  their  influence  to  bear  for  the  suppression  of  the 
enormous  evils  of  intemperance. 

Thus  the  Free  Church,  in  the  commencement  of  her  work, 
sought  to  deal  with  this  gigantic  evil,  which  every  one  felt  was 
the  great  obstacle  in  the  way  of  all  movements  for  the  moral 
and  religious  welfare  of  the  community.  It  was  impossible  to 
contemplate  without  the  deepest  pain  that  widespread  ruin  which 
intemperance  was  causing  among  large  masses  of  a  degraded 
population — its  fatal  influence  in  paralysing  and  making  of 
no  effect  the  efforts  of  the  Church  and  the  ministry  of  the 
Gospel.  The  great  duty  lying  on  all  Christians  to  combat  these 
evils  has  been  steadily  kept  in  view,  and  never  has  it  been 
more  deeply  felt  than  it  is  at  the  present  day.  As  time  passes 
on,  men  are  becoming  more  alive  to  the  great  urgency  of  the 
demand  that  the  whole  Church  should  combine  in  one  united 
movement,  striving,  by  their  efforts  and  their  prayers,  to 
suppress  the  widespread  evils  of  intemperance. 


SABBATH  SCHOOLS.  751 


LVIII.  Sabbath  Schools.* 

DUEING  the  first  year  of  her  separate  existence,  amidst  the  toils 
and  cares  of  the  Disruption,  the  Free  Church  was  enabled  to 
show  the  deep  interest  which  she  took  in  Sabbath  schools. 
When  her  great  scheme  for  week-day  scriptural  education  was 
set  up  in  May,  1843,  a  committee  was  at  the  same  time 
appointed  with  instructions  to  "  direct  special  attention  to 
Sabbath  schools  as  one  of  the  stated  congregational  means  of 
grace."  At  the  Glasgow  Assembly  in  October  the  subject  was 
again  referred  to,  and  in  1844,  amidst  the  fervour  which 
followed  the  memorable  sermon  of  Dr.  Charles  Brown,  a 
report  was  given  in,  and  a  memorial  was  at  the  same  time 
presented  from  176  male  teachers  in  Edinburgh,  calling  atten- 
tion to  the  great  importance  of  the  work. 

During  the  following  year  efforts  were  made  to  obtain  fuller 
information,  and  returns  were  received  from  420  congregations, 
who  reported  that  they  had  91G  Sabbath  schools  in  operation, 
with  50,472  scholars  and  4248  teachers,  while  in  not  a  few 
cases  manifest  tokens  of  spiritual  blessing  were  spoken  of  in 
connection  with  the  work. 

Again,  in  1846,  progress  was  reported  by  the  Convener,  Mr. 
Manson,  who  described  the  deep  and  prayerful  interest  awakened 
throughout  the  Church,  and  the  large  amount  of  earnest 
labour  which  was  devoted  to  Sabbath  schools.  At  that  time, 
however,  it  was  felt — as  ever  since  it  has  been — that  the  work 
of  the  Committee  was  not  so  much  "to  undertake  separate 

*  In    this   section   we   have   been   largely   indebted   to  notes  kindly 

furnished  by  Mr.  William  Dickson,  whose  labours  for  the  last  forty  years 

deserve  the  grateful  acknowledgments  not  only  of  the  Free  Church,  but 

of  every  friend  to  the  cause  of  Sabbath  schools. 

3  A 


722  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

operations  of  their  own  "  as  to  endeavour  "  to  excite  a  deeper 
interest  in  the  spiritual  welfare  of  the  young,"  keeping  the  sub- 
ject before  kirk-sessions  and  the  higher  courts  of  the  Church. 

In  1849,  a  change  took  place,  when  Dr.  Candlish  was 
appointed  Convener,  with  Mr.  Maitland  Heriot  of  Kamornie 
as  Vice-Convener.  Fresh  energy  was  thrown  into  the  work. 
Presbyteries  were  corresponded  with  to  stir  up  their  interest ; 
ministers  were  appointed  to  preach  to  the  young;  normal  classes 
were  formed  for  the  training  of  inexperienced  teachers;  helpful 
books  were  supplied  to  the  teachers  and  cheap  Bibles  to  the 
scholars,  and  aid  was  given  for  the  formation  of  libraries  ;  and 
last,  not  least,  the  editing  of  the  Children's  Record,  which 
had  been  begun  in  1845,  was  in  1850  entrusted  to  Mr. 
William  Dickson,  whose  life-long  labours  have  been  devoted 
in  its  pages  to  the  godly  upbringing  of  the  young. 

It  was  not  long,  however,  till  Mr.  Dickson  was  called  to  take 
a  more  prominent  place,  having  been  induced  in  1855,  on  the 
personal  solicitation  of  Dr.  Candlish,  to  undertake  the  Con- 
venership  of  the  Committee.  The  difficulty  which  hampered  every 
movement  was  the  want  of  funds,  and  for  some  time  little 
could  be  done  beyond  issuing  an  occasional  circular,  gathering 
statistics,  and  presenting  an  annual  report  to  the  Assembly. 

In  18G0-G1,  a  season  of  revival  came — a  time  of  blessing 
for  Scotland;  a  marked  work  of  grace  appeared  among  the 
young,  and  at  once  the  interest  of  the  Church  in  her  Sabbath 
schools  received  a  new  impulse. 

One  effect  of  this  was  seen  in  1868,  when  the  Assembly  took 
the  strong  step  of  enjoining  ministers,  presbyteries,  and  synods 
to  see  that  complete  returns  of  the  work  should  be  sent  up  from 
year  to  year.  This  injunction  took  effect,  and  Mr.  Dickson,  in 
the  report  of  1869,  was  able  to  begin  a  practice  which  more 
than  anything  else  has  stimulated  and  advanced  this  depart- 
ment of  the  Church's  work.  In  the  annual  schedule  of  queries, 
information  had  been  asked  on  all  points  aflPecting  the  manage- 
ment of  the  schools — how  the  teachers  were  trained — the 
lessons  prepared — prayer  meetings  held — missionary  contribu- 
tions raised — the  Children's  Record  circulated — what  hopeful 
indications  there  were  of  spiritual  results,  &c.  &c.     On  these 


SABBATH  SCHOOLS.  723 

and  many  other  points,  statements  were  received  full  of  most 
valuable  details,  setting  forth  the  methods  which  liad  been 
found  most  effective  in  the  different  localities. 

But  how  was  all  this  information  to  be  turned  to  account  ? 
It  occurred  to  Mr.  Dickson  that  the  most  important  hints  and 
practical  suggestions  scattered  through  the  various  returns 
might  be  digested  and  classified,  and  embodied  in  the  Annual 
Report  in  such  a  way  as  to  awakeu  the  interest  of  the  Church. 
No  sooner  was  this  done  than  Mr.  Kidston  of  Ferniegair,  him- 
self a  veteran  Sabbath-school  teacher,  on  reading  that  first 
report  (1869),  saw  the  importance  of  putting  a  copy  into  the 
hands  of  each  of  the  teachers  who  were  actually  engaged  in  the 
work,  and  at  once  offered  to  defray  the  needful  expense.  The 
practice  thus  begun  has  ever  since  been  continued,  and  in  this 
way  every  practical  hint  which  the  yearly  report  contains — many 
of  them  fresh  and  suggestive — has  been  brought  under  the 
notice  of  every  teacher,  all  new  ideas  of  any  practical  value 
being  at  once  made  known  in  every  Sabbath  school  throughout 
the  Church.  The  Report  now  embraces  returns  from  more  than 
3000  Sabbath  schools  and  Bible-classes,  and  is  put  into  the 
hands  of  17,000  teachers.  In  many  cases  it  has  been  the  cus- 
tom, shortly  after  the  Report  has  been  circulated,  for  the  minister 
to  have  a  conference  with  his  teachers  for  the  purpose  of  going 
over  the  suggestions,  and  considering  how  far  any  of  them  might 
be  utilised  in  their  own  school.  The  work  has  come  to  be  one 
of  no  common  magnitude,  and  the  results  have  been  in  the 
highest  degree  advantageous. 

It  may  not  be  without  interest  to  record  the  names  of  those 
generous  friends  of  the  cause  who  have  year  by  year  enabled 
the  Church  to  present  all  her  Sabbath-school  teachers  with  this 
small  but  kindly  recognition  of  their  loving  labours — 

1869  Mr.  W.  Kidston. 

1870  Mr.  W.  Henderson,  Aberdeen. 

1871  Mr.  John  Muir,  Glasgow. 

1872  Mr.  James  Stevenson,  Glasgow. 

1873  Mr.  P.  D.  Swan,  Kirkcaldy. 
187-i  Mr.  John  Cowan,  Beeslack. 

1875  Mr.  George  Martin,  Auchindennan. 


724  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

1876  Mr.  Robert  Watt,  Airdrie. 

1877  Anonymous. 

1878  Lord  Kintore. 

1879  Mr.  James  S.  Napier,  Glasgow. 

1880  Professor  Simpson,  Edinburgh. 

1881  Mr.  James  White,  Overtoun. 

1882  Mr.  George  F.  Barbour,  Bouskeid. 

In  tracing  the  history  of  the  movement,  as  shown  in  the 
reports,  and  in  the  yearly  statement  of  the  Convener  to  the 
General  Assembly,  there  are  various  respects  in  which  a  marked 
improvement  may  be  observed. 

Details  cannot  here  be  given,  but  one  or  two  points  of  interest 
may  be  noted. 

In  the  training  of  teachers,  for  example,  and  the  pre- 
paration of  lessons,  a  great  advance  has  been  made.  At  first 
one  great  cause  of  discouragement  was  the  difficulty,  especially 
in  remote  and  small  congregations,  of  procuring  properly 
qualified  teachers.  The  choice  seemed  to  lie  between  engag- 
ing some  who  were  but  ill  fitted  for  the  work,  and  having 
no  Sabbath  school  at  all.  Year  by  year  that  want  is  being 
rapidly  remedied.  Ministers  are  training  teachers  for  them- 
selves. A  '  preparation  meeting,'  on  a  week  evening,  is  very 
commonly  held,  for  going  over  the  lesson,  and  otherwise 
promoting  intelligence  and  efficiency.  It  is  interesting  to 
observe  that  for  several  years  past,  this  old  complaint,  so  com- 
mon in  former  reports,  is  not  once  to  be  found. 

Another  gratifying  circumstance  is  the  increase  in  numbers 
and  in  religious  earnestness.  In  the  report  presented  to  the 
Assembly,  1882,  it  was  shown  that  the  Free  Church  had  then 
more  than  17,000  Sabbath-school  teachers,  and  more  than 
200,000  young  people  under  Bible  instruction. 

"  That  our  numbers  should  have  gone  on  so  to  increase,  in 
the  face  of  such  influences  as  many  of  our  Sabbath  schools  are 
exposed  to,  is  a  fact  that  may  well  arrest  the  attention  of 
the  Church,  even  if  regarded  merely  as  a  means  of  feeding 
her  congregations,  and  ultimately  of  reinforcing  her  office- 
bearers and  her  ministry.  But,  as  we  were  impressively 
reminded  in  the  Moderator's  opening  address,  mere  numbers  in 


SABBATH  SCHOOLS.  725 

a  Church,  or  in  a  department  of  Christian  work,  are  of  them- 
selves no  necessary  sign  of  prosperity.  Important  as  those 
figures  are,  there  is  an  element  manifest  throughout  this  report 
which  cannot  but  be  regarded  as  a  far  deeper  and  surer  ground 
of  encouragement.  I  refer  to  the  earnest  scriptural  tone  of  the 
teaching  which  is  brought  to  bear  upon  that  great  multitude  of 
young  people.  Everywhere  in  that  teaching,  as  the  report  so 
clearly  shows,  there  is  perceptible  the  throb,  the  glow,  the 
yearning  prayerfulness  of  soul-seeking  spiritual  life.  For  this, 
far  more  than  even  for  our  numbers,  though  these  are  this 
year  higher  than  they  have  ever  been  before,  have  we  not 
cause  to  thank  God  and  take  courage  ?  Prayer,  prayer,  every- 
where prayer,  seems  to  be  the  watchword  among  our  Sabbath 
schools. 

"Much  of  this  progress,  both  in  practical  eflBciency  and  in 
earnestness  of  spirit,  is,  doubtless,  to  be  accounted  for,  under 
God,  by  the  great  increase  of  interest  shown  in  the  young,  not 
only  by  the  Church  generally,  but  by  individual  ministers.  One 
can  remember  when  many  of  our  Sabbath  schools  were  very  much 
left  to  take  care  of  themselves ;  when  a  request  for  an  address 
to  the  children  was  too  often  met  by  the  answer,  '  Oh,  children 
are  not  in  my  way;  I  don't  know  how  to  speak  to  children.' 
But  now  in  this  work,  turn  where  we  will,  we  find  the  minister 
at  the  front,  encouraging,  fostering,  directing.  Do  we  not 
in  this  see  the  precious  fruit  of  the  training  through  which, 
now  almost  universally,  our  students  pass,  by  the  Sabbath 
school  and  missionary  work  engaged  in  during  their  theological 
course  ? 

"  A  student  thus  continuing  in  his  prayerful  care  and  personal 
dealing  may  find,  when  he  leaves  the  Divinity  Hall,  and  leaves 
his  scholars,  that  while  engaged  in  this  humble  work,  he  has 
been  passing  through  a  course  of  pastoral  practice,  and  of 
pastoral  theology,  which  is  likely  to  be  of  use  to  him  all  the 
days  of  his  life.  It  is  after  an  experience  something  like  this 
that  many  of  our  students  now  pass  on  to  the  work  of  the 
ministry.  If  this  be  so,  can  we  wonder  that  it  .should  soon 
show  itself  in  our  Sabbath  schools  ?  No  longer  kept  away  by 
a  painful  consciousness  of   inability  to  interest,  the  minister 


726  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

loves  to  be  where  the  children  are,  for  he  has  found  it  to  be  the 
bit  of  his  vineyard  which,  as  it  were,  lies  most  sweetly  to  the 
sun.  And  then,  what  a  joy  he  finds  in  sustaining  and  being 
sustained  by  the  sympathy  of  his  fellow-labourers  !  He  knows 
the  heart  of  a  Sabbath-school  teacher,  for  he  has  been  a  Sabbath- 
school  teacher  himself."  * 

Better  accommodation  for  our  Sabbath  schools  is  another 
matter  about  which,  in  recent  years,  some  stir  has  been  made. 
The  remonstrance  was  not  without  reason,  and  good  has  come 
of  it.  While  much  consideration,  and  rightly,  was  given  to  the 
comfort  of  a  church,  almost  any  place,  however  inconvenient, 
was  thought  good  enough  for  a  Sabbath  school.  In  187G,  the 
case  was  thus  put  before  the  Assembly.  "  Many,  especially  of 
our  missionary  schools,  are  held  in  places  utterly  unfit  for 
the  purpose ;  ill-lighted,  ill-ventilated,  depressing  alike  to 
teachers  and  to  scholars.  A  case  was  discovered  by  the 
Assembly's  evangelistic  deputies  last  autumn,  where  a  Free 
Church  elder  had  kept  a  Sabbath  school  for  thirty  years  with 
no  better  accommodation  than  a  cave  in  a  rock  on  the  shores  of 
Argyleshire.  Things  ought  not  so  to  be.  If  the  teacher  gives 
his  love  and  his  labour,  surely  the  Church  should  see  to  his 
proper  accommodation.  The  Sabbath  school,  like  the  visible 
Church,  has  a  body  as  well  as  a  soul.  It  is  well  for  us  to  say 
to  it,  '  Depart  in  peace,  be  ye  warmed  and  filled  ; '  but  if,  not- 
withstanding, we  give  them  not  those  things  which  are  needful 
for  the  body,  what  doth  it  profit  ?  Let  kirk-sessions,  in  their 
care  for  the  sciiools,  see  that  the  best  available  accommodation  be 
provided ;  and  let  deacons'  courts  see  that  rents  and  all  expenses 
are  paid,  and  not  left  to  come  out  of  the  pocket  of  the  teacher,  as 
hitherto  has  sometimes  been  the  case.  When  a  new  church  is 
built, let  the  Assembly's  Building  Committee,  and  all  contributors, 
stipulate  that  there  shall  be  a  fit  place  for  the  Sabbath  school. 
We  don't  turn  our  cellars  into  nurseries ;  are  we  not  glad 
rather  when  we  can  give  up  the  brightest  room  in  the  house 
for  the  little  ones  ?  Shall  the  Church  do  less  for  her 
children  ? "  -f- 

*  Blue  Book,  1882,  p.  193. 
+  Ibid.,  1876,  p.  264. 


SABBATH  SCHOOLS.  727 

There  is  no  feature  in  this  whole  movement,  however,  more 
remarkable  than  the  care  taken  to  foster  among  the  young  an 
interest  in  the  cause  of  Missions.  Even  in  the  first  report,  given  in 
by  Mr.  Lewis  at  the  Assembly  of  1844,  this  was  put  in  the  fore- 
ground. Every  Sabbath  school,  he  said,  ought  to  be  in  fact  a  juve- 
nile missionary  association.  If  they  hoped  to  realise  the  character 
of  a  Missionary  Church,  it  would  be  by  beginning  at  the  begin- 
ning— infusing  with  the  first  breath  of  spiritUfal  life  into  our 
children  the  missionary  spirit.  It  might  surprise  those  not  in 
the  habit  of  reflecting  on  what  Dr.  Chalmers  called  '  the  power 
of  littles'  to  learn  that  the  children  had  raised  upwards  of 
£500  for  the  Orphan  Refuge  in  India,  besides  their  contribu- 
tions to  other  missionary  schemes.*  The  keynote  thus  early 
struck  has  been  faithfully  followed  up.  By  facts  and  incidents 
conveyed  through  the  Children's  Record,  it  has  been  sought  to 
make  the  young  familiar  with  our  missions  and  missionaries, 
and  thereby  to  foster  an  intelligent  interest  in  the  whole  mis- 
sion work  of  the  Church.  As  regards  juvenile  contributions, 
the  result  has  been  remarkable.  The  amount  for  all  missionary 
purposes  raised  during  the  year  by  the  children,  and  reported 
for  1881-82,  was  £4806,  Os.  2d.,  being  nearly  £300  in  excess  of 
the  previous  year.  This  is  inclusive  of  a  "  New  Year  Offering  " 
of  £648,  2s.  4d.  for  Medical  Mission  Buildings  at  Madras. 
For  these  "New  Year  Offerings  "  on  behalf  of  special  objects,  the 
contributions  of  the  young  people,  in  response  to  appeals  made 
to  them  through  the  Childrens  Record  during  the  thirteen 
years  ending  1882,  have  been  as  follows  : — 

1867.  Waggons  for  Nagpore,     .  .  .    £315 

312 
334 
G33 
670 
840 
1005 
750 
800 
532 


1870.  School  for  Lovedale,  South  Africa, 

1871.  Mr.  Narayan  Sheshadri's  "  Bethel"  at  Jalna, 

1873.  Jewish  Mission  Girls'  School  at  Constantinople, 

1874.  Iron  Mission  Church,  Baillieston, 

1875.  Hospital  for  Santal  Mission, 

1876.  Waggons  for  Africa, 

1877.  School  and  Dispensary  for  Lebanon, 

1878.  Children's  Books  for  Waldenses  and  Bohemia, 

1879.  Steamer  and  Cloth  for  Livingstonia, 

*  Blue  Book,  1844,  p.  171. 


728  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

1 880.  Home  and  Printing  Press  for  Poona  Orphans,  .    £600 

1881.  Ne^y  "  Floating  Betiiel  "  for  Genoa,         .  .725 

1882.  Medical  I\Iission  Hall,  Madras,     .  .  .648 


£8164 

"  Besides  the  great  material  help  thus  supplied  to  these 
various  missions,  and  to  the  comfort  of  the  missionaries,  can  it 
be  doubted  that  the  collecting  of  that  £8000  must  have  had  an 
important  educational  eflFect  upon  those  who  collected  it  ?  Is 
it  nought  that  the  children  of  the  Free  Church  should  be 
remembered,  as  they  very  surely  are,  with  gratitude  and  affection 
by  native  communities  in  so  many  distant  parts  of  the  mission 
field  and  of  the  world  ? "  * 

Up  to  1869,  when  the  statistics  began  to  be  annually  printed, 
it  is  difficult  to  ascertain  correctly  the  amount  of  the  juvenile  con- 
tributions. But  for  the  fifteen  years  from  1869  to  1888,  as  shown 
in  the  yearly  reports,  the  givings  of  the  children  of  the  Church, 
for  all  missionary  purposes,  have  together  amounted  to  con- 
siderably more  than  fifty-two  thousand  eight  hundred  pounds. 

Looking  back  now  on  those  forty  years  of  Sabbath-school 
work  in  the  Free  Church,  no  one  can  fail  to  observe  the  advance 
which  has  been  made,  and  the  different  position  in  which  the 
whole  subject  now  stands.  It  has  been  the  aim  of  the  Com- 
mittee to  have  these  schools  of  the  Church  incorporated  as  an 
integral  part  of  her  regular  ecclesiastical  organisation,  and  this 
has  now  been  practically  accomplished.  All  over  the  Church 
the  cause  is  being  cared  for  and  fostered,  and  returns  sent  in 
from  kirk-sessions,  presbyteries,  and  synods.  These  returns 
form  the  basis  of  the  yearly  reports,  in  which  the  work,  in  all 
its  breadth  and  importance,  is  from  year  to  year  presented  before 
the  view  of  the  General  Assembly. 

And  other  significant  signs  may  be  seen  of  the  ever-deepening 
interest  which  is  taken  in  the  young.  In  the  stated  pulpit 
services  of  the  Sabbath,  for  example,  there  is  now  usually  a  portion 
for  the  children.  And  at  family  worship  on  Sabbath  mornings, 
a  practice,  recommended  by  the  General  Assembly  (1SG8),  is 
very  commonly  observed  in  households  belonging  to  the  Free 
*  Blue  Book,  1881,  p.  195. 


SABBATH  SCHOOLS.  729 

Church  —  prayer    is    specially  offered   on  behalf    of    Sabbath 
schools. 

But  of  all  these  tokens  of  encouragement,  the  most  remark- 
able was  the  appointment  by  the  General  Assembly,  1882,  of  a 
particular  day, — Sabbath,  the  5th  of  November, — in  which  the 
whole  public  services  throughout  the  congregations  of  the  Church 
should  have  reference  to  the  young.  Never  before  had  such  an 
appointment  been  made  ;  but  more  remarkable  and  more  cheer- 
ing still  was  the  heartiness  with  which  it  was  taken  up,  and  the 
impressiveness  and  success,  for  the  most  part,  of  the  services 
which  were  held.  As  years  pass  on,  the  interest  grows,  and  more 
than  ever  the  Church  seems  to  be  taking  to  heart  the  words  of 
our  Lord,  "  Feed  my  lambs." 


730  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 


LIX.  Unions. 

It  is  remarkable  how  the  Disruption,  while  directly  causing 
division,  was  yet  the  means  of  healing  former  breaches  by 
gathering  into  one  various  divided  sections  of  Scottish  Presby- 
terianism.  Four  years  before  the  separation,  one  of  the 
branches  of  the  Original  Secession — the  Old  Light  Burgher 
Synod — had  been  drawn  within  the  bosom  of  the  Establishment, 
avowedly  on  the  ground  that  the  Evangelical  party  were  in 
the  ascendant  and  had  brought  the  Church  into  the  position 
to  which  their  forefathers  looked  forward. 

Another  union  of  the  same  kind  took  place  in  1852,  when 
the  United  Original  Seceders — the  body  to  which  Dr.  M'Crie 
and  his  friends  belonged — cast  in  their  lot  with  the  Free  Church, 
adding  upwards  of  thirty  congregations  to  the  roll.  Previously, 
at  the  Glasgow  Assembly  in  1843,  when  they  appeared  with 
other  Churches  to  express  their  sympathy  with  the  position  of 
the  Free  Church,  Dr.  Candlish  suggested  that  the  address 
which  they  presented  should  be  separated  from  the  others — the 
principles  on  which  it  proceeded  were  in  such  "perfect  practical 
agreement"  with  those  of  the  Free  Church  as  to  "point  to  an 
incorporating  union." 

Negotiations  were  accordingly  entered  on ;  but  time  was 
required  before  a  complete  understanding  could  be  come  to, 
and  it  was  not  till  Tuesday,  the  1st  of  June,  1852,  that  the 
union  was  actually  carried  out.  The  motion  on  that  occasion 
«^as  made  by  Dr.  Candlish  and  seconded  by  Sir  George  Sinclair 
in  language  of  peculiar  warmth  and  fervour.  "  I  cannot  express 
to  you,"  Sir  George  remarked,  "  the  sentiment  of  joy  with  which 
I  contemplate  this  event.  I  estimate  the  importance  of  the 
venerable  body  which  has  united  itself  to  ours  by  their  excel- 


UNIONS.  731 

lence  and  not  by  their  numbers.  In  the  days  of  ancient  warfare, 
any  general  would  have  hailed  with  much  more  satisfaction  the 
junction  to  his  ranks  of  300  Spartans  with  Leonidas  at  their 
head  than  if  Mardonius  had  presented  himself  with  100,000 
followers."  Alluding  to  the  dead,  he  continued,  "  I  cannot 
mention  without  feelings  of  deep  emotion  the  venerated  name 
of  M'Crie,  a  man  gifted  with  a  most  powerful  intellect,  and 
at  the  same  time  with  the  most  profound  humility,  possessing 
the  most  undaunted  courage  and  the  most  unostentatious 
simplicity.  Never  was  there  a  man  so  qualified  to  delineate  for 
the  admiration  and  example  of  every  subsequent  generation  of 
Scotchmen,  the  virtues,  the  sufferings,  the  trials,  and  triumphs 
of  our  ancestors."* 

Dr.  M'Crie,  the  younger,  in  reply,  declared :  "  For  myself  I 
shall  only  say  that  much  as  I  respect  the  memory  of  the  Erskines, 
the  Fishers,  and  Moncreiffs  of  the  Secession,  still  deeper  is  my 
veneration  for  the  worthies  who  have  adorned  the  history  of  the 
Chm-ch  of  Scotland.  And  I  confess  that  my  heart  rejoices — I 
may  say  leaps  for  joy — in  the  act  of  returning  as  I  do  to  the 
Church  of  Knox,  and  Melville,  and  Henderson — the  Church  of 
Thomas  Boston,  of  Andrew  Thomson,  and  of  Thomas  Chalmers. "f 
Mr,  White  of  Haddington  reciprocated  the  sentiments  of  Dr. 
Candlish,  that  this  union  was  matter  of  rejoicing  because  it  was 
a  union  in  the  truth.  For  himself,  personally,  he  did  not 
rejoice  because  he  was  a  Seceder — "  No,  I  have  ever  been  far 
more  in  heart  and  soul  a  Church  of  Scotland  man  than  ever  I 
was  a  Secession  man.  I  became  a  Seceder  just  because  I  was  a 
Church  of  Scotland  man,  and  I  cease  to  be  a  Seceder  just 
because  I  can  be  a  Church  of  Scotland  man,  out  and  out,  within 
the  Church  of  Scotland.  I  believe  that  Knox,  and  Melville, 
and  Henderson,  if  they  had  lived  in  the  days  of  the  Eiskines, 
would  have  become  Seceders,  and  I  believe  that  Ebenezer 
Erskine  and  "W.  Wilson,  if  they  had  been  living,  would  this 
evening  have  ceased  to  be  Seceders  by  joining  the  Free  Church 
of  Scotland." 

Thus  heartily  did  the   brethren  express  the  feelings  with 
*  Blue  Book,  1852,  Appendix,  pp.  22.  23. 
t  Ibid.,  p.  25. 


732  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

which  they  took  their  place  within  the  Assembly,  and  with  no 
less  warmth  did  the  Assembly  respond.  "  I  do  rejoice,"  said 
Dr.  Duff,  "with  exceeding  great  joy,  that  by  their  vitalising 
accession,  the  Free  Church,  which  we  and  they  maintain  to  be 
the  ancient,  veritable,  reformed,  covenanted  Church  of  Scotland 
— the  Church  founded  by  Scotland's  dauntless  reformers,  fed 
and  nourished  by  Scotland's  holiest  confessors,  and  cemented 
by  the  blood  of  Scotland's  noble  army  of  martyrs — may  be  still 
further  consolidated  and  perpetuated  to  the  ages  of  latest 
posterity."  * 

Again,  in  1876,  there  took  place  a  union  with  the  Reformed 
Presbyterian,  popularly  known  as  the  Cameronian,  Church. 
Before  the  Revolution  of  1688,  they  were  part  of  the  Presby- 
terian Church  of  Scotland,  and  were  the  strength  of  that  body 
during  the  days  of  persecution.  Their  great  principle  was  not 
only  a  Free  Church  in  a  free  State,  but  a  Christian  Church  in  a 
Christian  State,  and  the  covenants  by  which  Scotland  had  bound 
herself  to  this  principle  they  held  to  be  still  in  force.  When 
the  Established  Church,  therefore,  accepted  the  Revolution 
Settlement,  it  seemed  to  them  an  unfaithful  compromise,  and 
they  stood  out  on  the  old  ground  on  which  the  whole  Church  of 
the  Second  Reformation  had  previously  stood. 

The  accession  of  such  a  body  was  thus  an  event  well  fitted  to 
excite  the  deepest  interest  among  all  parties.  From  the  first 
they  had  been  strongly  attached  to  the  Free  Church,  expressing 
at  the  Glasgow  Assembly  (1843)  their  admiration  of  what  she  had 
done  in  separating  from  the  Establishment.  "  In  our  opinion 
no  event  of  equal  importance  to  the  interests  of  religion  has 
occurred  in  our  land  for  a  century  and  a-half."  It  will  "  con- 
stitute a  memorable  epoch  in  the  page  of  history."  f 

Such  sentiments  might  well  have  seemed  to  pave  the  way  for 
a  speedy  incorporating  union,  but  public  bodies  move  slowly,  and 
there  were  strong  reasons  why  the  Reformed  Presbyterians, 
looking  to  the  past,  should  cling  tenaciously  to  their  separate 
existence. 

They  had,  indeed,  a  very  noble  history — their  ancestors  were 

*  Bhie  Book,  1852,  pp.  27-33. 
t  Ibid.,  Glasgow  Assembly,  p.  43. 


UNIONS,  733 

the  Covenanters  on  whom  had  fallen  the  sufferings  of  martyrdom 
during  that  long  persecution,  when  with  unflinching  faith  they 
struggled  for  the  civil  and  religious  liberties  of  Scotland,  and 
kept  the  banner  flying  for  Christ's  crown  and  covenant.  No 
body  of  Scotchmen  had  done  so  much  to  bring  about  the 
Revolution,  and  when  it  seemed  to  be  imperilled  by  the 
battle  of  Killiecrankie,  it  was  they,  with  the  gallant  Colonel 
Cleland  at  their  head,  who  volunteered  in  its  defence,  and  turned 
the  tide  of  war  in  the  valley  of  Dunkeld. 

After  all  this  the  Revolution  Settlement  excluded  them,  as 
they  believed,  from  the  Established  Church,  unless  they  were 
prepared  to  sacrifice  those  very  principles,  adherence  to  which 
had  carried  them  through  the  struggle.  It  was  a  poor  reward, 
but  with  unflinching  steadfastness  they  faced  their  new  position. 
Patient  martyrs  in  the  days  of  persecution,  gallant  soldiers  on  the 
field  of  battle,  they  now  consented  to  be  left  outside, — actually 
for  a  time  they  were  sheep  without  a  shepherd,  till  they  formed 
themselves  into  a  regularly  constituted  Church.  Then  came 
long  years  of  comparative  obscurity,  in  which  their  flocks  stood 
by  their  principles  and  by  each  other  with  a  tenacity  worthy  of 
the  highest  admiration.  Their  views  in  regard  to  the  civil 
magistracy  might  seem  to  many  to  be  extreme — but  their 
ministers  were,  in  many  cases,  men  of  talent,  and  their  mem- 
bers, as  a  rule,  were  known  for  the  consistency  and  godliness 
of  their  lives.  No  branch  of  the  Presbyterian  Church  enjoyed 
a  larger  measure  of  public  respect. 

Of  the  negotiations  which  preceded  the  union  it  is  not  needful 
that  we  should  speak.  Ultimately,  in  187G,  when  they  were 
brought  to  a  successful  issue,  it  was  found  that  among  the 
thirty-eight  ministers  who  belonged  to  the  Synod  there  was  all 
but  complete  unanimity.  The  25th  of  May,  1876,  was  a  day 
to  be  remembered,  when  that  Synod,  as  a  body,  entered  the  hall 
of  the  Free  Assembly  and  the  union  was  consummated,  the  two 
Churches  taking  their  seats  side  by  side  as  brethren  in  Christ. 
The  scene  was  one  which  called  up  solemn  memories  of  Cargill, 
and  Cameron,  and  Guthrie,  carrying  the  mind  away  to  the  days 
of  Henderson,  and  Melville,  and  Knox — memories  associated 
with  the  banner  so  long  upheld  by  the  strong  arms  of  our 


734  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

covenanting  fathers,  "of  which,"  Dr.  Goold  remarked  at  the 
time,  "no  ri.iicule  will  ever  make  us  ashamed, as  no  persecution 
ever  made  us  relax  our  grasp — riddled  with  the  shot  of  Claver- 
house  and  Dalzell — consecrated  with  the  blood  of  martyrdom, 
and  inscribed  -with  the  imperishable  legend  '  For  Christ's  Crown 
and  Covenant/" 

The  event  was  not  only  welcomed  by  the  Free  Church,  but 
was  felt  to  be  an  important  testimony  to  her  position  in  con- 
nection with  the  religious  history  of  Scotland.  In  1839,  the 
Original  Burgher  branch  of  the  Secession  Church  had  joined 
the  Church  of  Scotland  when  the  evangelical  party  had  established 
their  ascendency.  In  1852,  the  Anti-Burgher  branch  had  cast 
in  their  lot  with  the  Free  Church — these  two  bringing  with  them 
the  testimony  of  the  Erskines,  and  Fishers,  and  M'Crics.  And 
now  the  Reformed  Presbyterians  came  to  add  the  suffrages  of 
covenanting  times.  All  along,  the  Free  Church  felt  that  they 
were  contending  for  the  same  great  cause  for  which  our  godly 
forefathers  struggled  and  died,  and  here  were  the  stricter 
Presbyterian  Churches  in  Scotland — the  men  who  had  inherited 
most  fully  and  held  most  firmly  the  principles  of  former  days 
— not  only  uniting  to  testify  that  the  Free  Church  was  the 
modern  representative  of  former  witnesses  for  God's  truth,  but 
actually  finding  their  own  proper  home  and  resting  place  in  the 
bosom  of  that  Church.  Once  and  again,  and  yet  a  third  time, 
the  most  strict  and  uncompromising  of  the  old  Presbyterian 
communions  joined  the  Free  Church,  and  when  they  were  seen 
identifying  their  cause  with  hers,  the  testimony  which  they  bore 
to  her  position  was  in  the  highest  degree  important  in  the  view  of 
all  thoughtful  men.  She  might  well  thank  God  and  take 
couriige. 


THE  LARGER  CITIES. — HOME  MISSION  WORK.  735 


LX.  The  Lakger  Cities, — Home  Mission  Work. 

The  larger  cities  of  Scotland,  with  their  masses  of  neglected 
and  degraded  inhabitants,  have  all  along  been  an  object  of 
special  concern  to  the  Free  Church.  A  stranger  passing  along 
the  more  conspicuous  streets  of  Edinburgh  and  Glasgow,  admir- 
ing the  architecture  of  their  crescents  and  terraces,  could  have 
little  idea  of  the  dark  closes  and  "  wynds  "  where  so  many  of 
the  people  are  sunk  in  poverty,  and  living  amidst  physical  and 
moral  debasement,  all  the  more  painful  because  in  so  many 
cases  they  had  formerly  known  the  outward  decencies  of  a 
Christian  life.  It  was  to  these  classes  that  the  Free  Church 
from  the  outset  specially  directed  her  efforts. 

In  some  unfriendly  quarters  it  had  been  loudly  proclaimed 
that  such  localities  would  be  forsaken  when  the  Establishment 
was  left.  The  Free  Church  having  no  endowments,  would  have 
to  go  where  money  was  to  be  had,  and  must  confine  her  atten- 
tion to  those  well-to-do  people  who  could  afford  to  pay  for 
her  services. 

Men  ought  to  have  known  Dr.  Chalmers  and  his  fellow- 
labourers  better.  For  many  a  year  the  elevation  of  these 
sunken  masses  had  been  to  him  an  object  of  anxious  solicitude, 
and  with  this  feeling  the  Free  Church  fully  sympathised.  Into 
these  poor  localities  where  the  population  was  densest,  and  the 
leaven  of  sin  and  sorrow  most  active,  they  sought  to  enter, 
striving  in  some  measure  to  follow  the  steps  of  Him  who  went 
amongst  publicans  and  sinners.  Assuredly,  it  was  not  to  gather 
money,  or  seek  self-aggrandisement,  that  such  obscure  districts 
were  chosen.  It  was  that  in  the  strongholds  of  poverty  and 
sin  they  might  reclaim  some  of  the  lost  sheep,  and  gather  from 


73G  ANXALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

the  off-scourings  of  the  people  immortal  souls,  who  might  shine 
one  day  as  jewels  in  the  Saviour's  crown. 

In  this,  as  in  so  many  departments,  it  was  Dr.  Chalmers  who 
led  the  way.  Hardly  had  he  seen  the  Free  Church  well  afloat  when 
casting  aside -everything  but  his  professorship,  disentangling 
himself  from  convenerships  and  every  other  kind  of  Church 
occupation,  he  concentrated  all  his  energies  on  his  loved  Home 
Mission  work.  Within  a  year  of  the  Disruption  he  was  already 
looking  round  to  see  where  lay  the  worst  district  in  the  city  of 
Edinburgh,  in  order  that  he  might  make  it  the  object  of  his 
care.     It  was  on  the  West  Port  that  he  fixed  his  choice. 

The  place  some  years  before  had  become  infamous  as  the 
scene  of  a  whole  series  of  cold-blooded  secret  murders,  the 
discovery  of  which,  with  their  circumstances  and  objects,  had 
sent  a  thrill  of  horror  through  the  community.  The  population 
of  the  district  was  two  thousand,  of  whom  fifteen  hundred  had 
no  connection  with  any  Christian  Church,  living  chiefly  in  filthy 
closes  where  drunkenness  and  vice  prevailed.  There  were  four 
hundred  and  fifty  children  of  school  age,  two  hundred  and 
ninety  of  whom  were  growing  up  untaught  and  utterly 
neglected. 

Here  was  a  district  wholly  to  the  mind  of  the  great  philan- 
thropist, on  the  reclaiming  of  which  he  could  fairly  set  his 
heart.  The  effort,  he  confessed,  was  too  great  for  his  "  declining 
strength  and  means"  but  gladly  would  he  make  it  the  conclud- 
ing act  of  his  public  life,  if  he  could  only  succeed  in  showing 
how  such  a  locality  could  be  rescued  from  the  moral  wilderness, 
holding  it  up  as  an  example  in  the  view  of  all  Christian 
churches,  and  leaving  it  behind  him  as  "  a  model  and  normal 
specimen,"  "  a  made-out  experience "  of  successful  territorial 
work. 

It  was  in  July,  1844,  that  the  ground  was  first  broken. 
Gathering  around  him  a  band  of  Christian  friends.  Dr.  Chalmers 
mapped  out  the  West  Port  into  twenty  districts,  assigning  one 
to  each  visitor,  with  instructions  to  go  round  the  families  every 
week,  reading  the  Bible  if  they  got  opportunity,  conversing  with 
the  people,  and  showing  a  kindly  interest  in  them  and  their 
children.      Once  a-week.  also,  they  were  to  meet  on  Saturday 


THE  LARGKll  CITIES. — HOME  MISSION  WOllK.  737 

evening  to  report  progress,  and  pray  over  the  work ;  and  in  these 
meetings  he  was  himself  to  preside,  infusing  into  them  his  own 
ardent  zeal. 

It  must  be  confessed  that  at  first  the  progress  was  not  encou- 
raging. At  the  end  of  January  a  tan  loft  was  opened  for  public- 
worship,  the  first  sermon  being  preached  by  Dr.  Chalmers  in 
the  forenoon.  "We  were  present," *  says  Dr  Hanna,  "in  the 
evening  of  that  day,  when  the  city  missionary  officiated,  and  when 
we  looked  round  and  saw  that  the  whole  fruit  of  the  advices,  and 
requests,  and  entreaties  which  for  many  previous  weeks  had 
been  brought  to  bear  upon  all  the  families  by  the  visitors,  was 
the  presence  of  about  a  dozen  adults,  and  these  mostly  old 
women,  we  confess  to  strong  misgivings  as  to  the  result."  There 
was  a  maxim,  howevei',  which  was  often  on  the  lips  of  Dr. 
Chalmers,  that  prayer  and  pains  with  faith  could  do  anything, 
and  it  was  in  this  spirit  they  were  resolved  to  go  forward. 

Accordingly  much  prayer  was  offered.  Page  after  page  of  the 
secret  diary  of  Di\  Chalmers,  as  Dr.  Hanna  states,  bears  witness 
to  the  deep  and  devout  earnestness  of  these  supplications. 
"There  may  have  been  other  works  of  his  hands,  upon  which 
a  larger  amount  of  labour  was  bestowed — but  there  was  none 
over  which  so  many  prayers  were  offered." 

Along  with  this  there  was  much  strenuous  effort.  By  a  most 
fortunate  selection  Mr.  Tasker  was  chosen  to  take  charge  of  the 
station,  and  many  an  urgent  appeal  was  addressed  to  him  and 
other  friends  by  Dr.  Chalmers.  "  We  are  not  worthy  of  having 
entered  on  the  experiment  if  not  capable  of  persevering  with  it, 
under  the  discouragement  of  many  alternations,  and  for  a  time — 
if  so  it  pleased  God  to  exercise  our  faith  and  patience — of 
reverses,"  -}* 

Fostered  in  this  way,  it  was  not  long  till  the  promise  of 
abundant  fruit  began  to  appear.  The  meetings  increased,  a 
church  seated  for  520  hearers  was  built,  and  largely  attended — 
the  great  bulk  of  the  communicants  being  from  the  closes  of  the 
West  Port.  Writing  to  his  friend,  Mr.  Lennox  of  New  York, 
Dr.  Chalmers  expressed  the  gratification  which  he  felt.    "  I  wish 

*  ^lemoirs  of  Dr.  Chalmers,  iv.  p.  404. 

t  Ibid.,  iv.  408. 

3R 


738  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

to  coiuiuunicate  what  to  me  is  the  most  joyful  event  of  my  life. 
I  have  been  intent  for  thirty  years  on  the  completion  of  a  terri- 
torial experiment,  and  I  have  now  to  bless  God  for  the  consum- 
mation of  it."  To  Mr.  Tasker  he  said :  "  I  have  got  now  the 
desire  of  my  heart — the  church  is  finished,  and  the  schools  are 
flourishing,  our  ecclesiastical  machinery  is  about  complete,  and 
all  in  good  working  order.  God  has  indeed  heard  my  prayer, 
and  I  could  now  lay  down  my  head  in  peace  and  die." 

And  even  such  was  the  result.  Hardly  had  the  new  church 
at  West  Port  been  opened,  when  all  Scotland  was  called  to 
mourn  the  death  of  the  noblest  of  her  sons.  But  how 
thoroughly  that  last  part  of  his  work  had  been  done  was  seen 
from  the  fact  that  not  even  the  removal  of  his  guiding  hand 
retarded  its  progress.  Year  by  year  increasingly  the  con- 
gregation prospered.  The  place  became  too  strait,  the  accom- 
modation was  enlarged,  and  the  whole  expense  of  religious 
ordinances  was  more  than  met  by  the  freewill  offerings  of  the 
people  themselves.  There  was  not  a  child  of  all  the  families  who 
was  not  at  school.  The  whole  aspect  of  the  West  Port  was 
changed,  and  when  men  saw  such  a  result  wrought  out  within  a 
time  so  brief  and  at  a  cost  so  small,  many  felt  that  the  appeal 
was  irresistible  to  go  and  do  likewise. 

The  Presbytery  of  Edinburgh  more  especially  could  not 
remain  passive.  Dr.  Gandlish  and  his  people  had  been  before- 
hand with  the  Presbytery,  the  congregation  of  Free  St.  George's 
having  already  taken  up  the  work  at  Pountainbridge.  But 
the  Court  resolved  that  some  systematic  efibrt  must  be  made. 
Every  congregation  in  the  city  was  formally  called  upon  to  con- 
sider the  duty  of  selecting  some  destitute  locality  as  a  field  for 
Home  Mission  operations,  and  ere  long  a  whole  array  of  these 
territorial  movements  was  in  progress.  Besides  Fountainbridge 
on  the  Canal,  and  the  West  Port  at  the  one  end  of  the  Grass- 
market,  another  church — that  of  Cowgatehead — was  planted  at 
the  other.  Further  to  the  east,  Dr.  Charles  Brown  and  his 
people  took  up  the  Cowgate.  Dr.  Guthrie  and  Dr.  Hanna,  in 
St.  John's,  selected  the  Pleasance.  There  was  Moray  Church, 
and  Holyrood,  and  various  others  carried  on,  till  the  more 
densely  peopled  districts  of  the  city  were  penetrated  by  a  whole 


THE  LARGER  CITIES. — HOME  MISSION  WORK.  739 

chain  of  territorial  charges.*  Wherever  poverty  and  wretched- 
ness were  most  to  be  found,  there  the  Free  Church  was  seen 
planting  her  churches,  and  bringing  all  her  energies  to  bear  on 
the  evangelisation  of  the  masses.  How  the  blessing  of  God 
rested  on  many  of  these  efforts  was  well  known  both  by  the 
Church  and  the  general  public.  Fountainbridge,  for  example, 
under  the  remarkable  pastorate  of  Mr.  Wilson,  ere  long  over- 
flowed and  gave  off  a  separate  congregation  for  Barclay  Church  ; 
and  again,  under  the  no  less  successful  ministry  of  Mr.  Morgan, 
it  has  given  off  a  second  swarm  to  form  the  Viewforth  Church, 
thus  establishing  two  of  the  largest  and  most  flourishing  con- 
gregations in  Edinburgh. 

But  after  all,  it  was  in  Glasgow  that  the  Home  Mission 
efforts  of  the  Free  Church  produced  the  most  striking  results. 
The  enormous  increase  of  the  population  in  that  city  had 
brought  about  a  state  of  matters  with  which  it  was  difficult  to 
deal.  The  church  extension  movement,  which  took  place  before 
the  Disruption,  had  done  much,  but  there  still  remained  80,000 
people  with  no  church  connection,  living  in  practical  heathen- 
ism. The  Free  Churchmen  in  Glasgow,  with  the  example  of 
Dr.  Chalmers  before  their  eyes,  could  not  possibly  allow  such  a 
state  of  matters  to  continue.  Dr.  Lorimer  tells  how  his  con- 
gregation, avowedly  following  the  West  Port  movement, 
selected  a  district — Dempster  Street  and  its  neighbourhood — 
which  popularly  bore  the  name  of  "  Botany  Bay,"  and  in  which 
the  carelessness  and  the  obduracy  of  the  people  were  appalling 
Into  that  locality  they  threw  a  band  of  office-bearers  and 
Christian  workers,  and  Dr.  Lorimer,  writing  in  1S4G,  describes 
the  prospects  of  the  undertaking  as  full  of  promise.-f* 

Of  all  these  efforts,  however,  the  most  conspicuous  was  that 
begun  in  the  Tron  Church  Parish  by  Dr.  Buchanan  and  his 
congregation.  Mr.  M'CoU  was  chosen  to  take  charge  of  the 
movement,  and  proved  himself  fitted  for  the  work  in  a  very 

*  It  should  be  stated  that  the  movement  at  Cowgate  Head  was  begun 
by  Lady  Effingham,  and  the  church  built  by  the  trustees  of  William 
Whyte,  Esq.,  bookseller  ;  Holyrood  was  begun  by  St.  Luke's  Congregation, 
and  largely  aided  by  the  Duchess  of  Gordon. 

t  Disr.  Mss.  i. 


740  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION, 

high  degree.  The  district  of  the  parish  where  his  operations 
began  was  known  as  "The  Wynds,"  covering  a  space  of  twelve 
acres,  and  inhabited  by  a  dense  population  of  about  12,000 
souls.  Under  the  guidance  of  a  friend  who  had  previously 
done  good  work  in  the  place,  Mr.  M'Coll  tells  how  he  paid  his 
first  visit  to  an  upper  room,  which  was  reached  by  climbing 
half-a-dozen  dirty  crazy  stairs,  where,  from  the  upper  window, 
they  could  see  the  old  crow-stepped  gables  and  broken  chimney- 
pots over  many  a  roof.  The  work  of  visiting  he  found  was  by 
no  means  pleasant  to  the  eyes,  or  to  any  of  the  senses.  In  the 
iiot  summer  days,  among  ill-ventilated  rooms  and  badly-drained 
closes,  it  required  considerable  courage  to  face  such  well- 
defended  walls  ;  and  often  by  the  bedside  of  the  dying,  it  was 
painful  to  see  the  coverlet  crowded  with  flies,  and  not  a  hand 
to  keep  from  the  clammy  face  the  tormentors  that  would  admit 
of  no  repose.  The  cases  of  typhus  and  cholera  were  the  most 
trying,  especially  when,  entering  some  low  cellar,  you  were  met 
by  the  salvo  of  an  infected  atmosphere,  well  rammed  home, 
with  no  possible  escape  but  by  the  way  you  entered. 

But  worse  than  all  else  was  the  moral  condition  of  the  people 
— there  were  "  so  many  dark  devious  dens  to  which  the  thief  and 
the  harlot,  like  beasts  of  prey,  could  retire,  and  from  which,  as 
night  came  down,  they  might  creep  forth  and  seek  their  prey. 
The  sober,  industrious  inhabitants  left  the  place — whisky-shops 
multiplied — there  were  the  wild  orgies  of  Saturday  night,  and  the 
saturnalia  of  the  Glasgow  Fair  ;  and  in  the  midst  of  these  evil 
influences,  '  The  Wynds  '  were  getting  worse  and  worse  every 
year.  1  shall  never  forget  my  first  impressions  of  the  houses 
T  visited,  and  the  people  gathered  out  to  be  taught,  nor  the 
remark  with  which  I  was  greeted  among  my  first  efl'orts,  by  an 
experienced  Sabbath-school  teacher :  '  Ah,  sir,  its  awfu'  work 
this.  The  folk  here  are  like  rotten  wood — they  winna  hold  the 
nail.' "  Into  the  midst  of  this  district,  with  all  its  diflficulties, 
Mr.  M'CoU  cast  himself,  and  went  to  work  with  a  zeal  and 
tact  which  soon  led  to  very  remarkable  results. 

Among  the  methods  he  pursued,  and  which  we  cannot  here 
describe  in  detail,  there  was  one  thing  deserving  special  notice 
— the  way  in  which  he  got  all  hands  to  work. 


THE  LARGER  CITIES. — HOME  MISSION  WORK.  741 

At  first  it  was  bis  own  personal  labour  that  was  required  ; 
and  certainly  it  was  given  with  unsparing  zeal — "  I  often 
visited  thirty  or  forty  houses  in  a  day, — now  standing  beside  a 
woman  with  her  washing-tub,  speaking  about  the  things  of  her 
peace  until  she  would  dry  the  soap-suds  from  her  arms  and 
then  from  her  eyes ;  and  then  sitting  beside  the  tailor  and 
shoemaker — urging  them  to  seek  the  Lord."  * 

Labouring  on  thus  with  all  his  might,  it  was  not  long  till  a 
band  of  devoted  Christian  workers  gathered  round  him.  They 
undertook  to  visit  the  district  each  Sabbath  between  sermons, 
leaving  tracts  in  the  houses,  and  inviting  people  to  Church  in 
the  afternoon.  Forty  visitors  were  thus  employed  ;  and  before 
the  end  of  the  first  year,  the  eflfect  of  their  work  began  to  be 
seen. 

Still  more  remarkable  was  the  movement  that  followed. 
"  It  was  in  the  beginning  of  our  second  winter  that  another 
agency,  of  prime  importance  to  us,  was  started — our  Sabbath 
evening  services  for  people  in  working  clothes.  Some  of  the 
visitors  came  to  me,  headed  by  my  friend  David  Cunninghame, 
who  was  one  of  the  first  few  sent  to  us.  '  We  cannot  longer,' 
they  said,  *  get  people  to  follow  us  into  church  in  the  afternoon, 
because,  they  say,  we  are  all  now  so  well  dressed  ? '  '  What  do 
you  propose  then?'  I  asked.  'Could  we  have  a  short  service 
in  the  evening  specially  for  this  class  V  I  at  once  answered 
that  I  would  make  a  beginning.  I  would  preach  again  in  the 
evening,  if  they  would  come  out  in  their  working  clothes,  so  as 
to  induce  others  to  do  the  same.  The  tame  elephants,  as  in 
jungle  hunting,  might  thus  bring  in  the  wild.  This  was  at 
once  agreed  to,  and  about  thirty  visitors — the  young  women 
putting  aside  their  nice  dresses  and  bonnets,  and  the  men  their 
broadcloth,  and  coming  out  in  the  dress  which  they  wore  at 
work,  went  round  and  gathered  the  first  evening  thirty  others. 
We  now  instituted  what  we  called  our  Night  Brigade,  a  band 
of  male  visitors  armed  with  bull's-eye  lanterns,  who  penetrateil 
the  dark  closes  and  stairs  a  little  before  the  service  began  to 
get  promises  fulfilled.  The  second  evening  we  had  ninety 
present,  the  third  about  a  hundred  and  fifty,  and  soon  we  had 
*  Work  in  the  Wynds,  page  34      By  the  Rev.  D.  M'Coll. 


742  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

the  church  half-filled,  sometimes  crowded,  when  some  of  tha 
visitors  would  peep  into  the  vestry  before  service,  and  say,  'We 
have  swept  the  closes  clean  to-night.' 

"  From  the  very  first  this  service  was  to  me  the  most  impressive 
I  had  then  seen.  It  was  very  short,  never  exceeding  an  hour 
or  an  hour  and  a-quarter,  and  conducted  with  the  same  atten- 
tion to  details  as  the  other  church  services.  But  the  audience 
affected  me  profoundly.  They  taught  me  how  to  preach.  There 
they  sat,  many  of  them  in  rags,  some  of  them  unwashed,  some 
brought  in  from  their  firesides  as  they  sat  after  their  Saturday 
night's  dissipation.  Many  had  never  in  their  life  been  within 
a  church  door,  many  had  not  been  for  ten  or  twenty  years. 
And  there  they  sat,  as  I  stood  up  to  preach,  looking  into  my 
eyes  with  eager  search  as  if  for  light,  waiting  to  know  if  I  really 
had  any  good  news  for  them.  They  seemed  to  say  :  '  We  have 
come  for  once  at  anyrate  within  your  reach,  and  we  shall  listen 
to-night  till  you're  done.  Say  your  best.  Do  your  utmost. 
We  are  dead  hopeless  creatures.  We  know  we're  lost,  you 
need  not  tell  us  that.  We  believe  in  hell ;  we  have  been  there. 
But  is  there  salvation  for  us  ?  Can  you  do  anything  to  save 
us?  For  God's  sake  try!'  And  I  did  try.  But  for  a  little  I 
lost  sight  of  them  in  tears.  For  my  words  were  broken  and 
mingled  with  sobs.  But  as  it  happened,  my  emotion  moved 
them.  Some  of  them  were  softened,  and  their  hearts  took  away 
impressions  from  the  truth.  I  told  them  in  the  end  that  I  had 
been  preaching  Christ,  and  now  I  preached  myself,  their  servant, 
for  His  sake.  I  offered  them  the  church ;  I  offered  them 
myself  as  their  minister ;  I  offered  them,  if  they  would  rise  and 
follow  the  Lord  with  us,  houses,  and  brethren,  and  sisters,  and 
such  help  as  was  promised  us  of  God.  We  spoke  to  them  as 
they  came  in  and  went  out,  and  tried  to  make  them  feel  at 
home.  We  had  in  those  days  no  Dorcas  Society.  We  had  to 
say  like  Peter  and  John,  '  Silver  and  gold  we  have  none,  but 
what  we  have  give  we ;  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  rise  up 
and  walk.'  Soon  we  saw  those  who  had  lain  for  years  at 
the  Beautiful  Gate  of  the  temple,  mere  lame  beggars  from  their 
birti),  rise  up  as  we  said,  'Look  on  us,'  and  especially  when  we 
'  took  them  by  the  hand '  and  helped  them  to  rise.     They  were 


THE  LARGER  CITIES. — HOME  MISSION  WORK.  743 

seen  goino-  into  the  temple,  leaping  and  praising  God.  How 
soon,  when  they  sat  at  the  feet  of  Jesus,  they  were  '  clothed  and 
in  their  right  mind.' " 

The  Church  now  began  to  fill  more  rapidly,  and  then  it  was 
when  the  congregation  began  to  overflow  that  we  reach  the 
point  of  deepest  interest,  A  new  aggressive  movement  was 
resolved  on,  the  locality  selected  being  the  Bridgegate,  noted  for 
its  rioting,  the  very  centre  of  the  popish  population  of  (jrlasgovv. 
A  church  was  built;  448  members  and  6  elders,  with  Mr. 
M'Coll  at  their  head,  moved  off  to  commence  work  in  the  new 
locality,  and  there  it  was  not  long  till  the  same  success  attended 
his  efforts. 

But  the  most  wonderful  thing  was  that  the  Wynd  Church, 
where  250  of  the  old  members  had  remained,  soon  began  once 
more  to  fill  under  the  pastorate  of  Mr,  Howie.  Ere  long  it 
began  a  second  time  to  overflow,  and  a  new  disjunction  to  take 
place.  A  site  was  got  in  Charlotte  Street.  Trinity  Church 
was  built,  to  which  400  members  followed  Mr.  Howie,  and 
within  three  years  the  numbers  on  the  communion  roll  had 
risen  to  1100. 

Still,  the  old  Wynd  Church  held  on  its  way.  The  Rev.  J. 
Wells  had  succeeded  Mr.  Howie,  and  soon  found  the  place  again 
too  strait.  The  process  had  to  be  repeated,  the  old  hive  send- 
ing ofi"  yet  another  swarm.  This  time  a  site  was  got  in  the 
Barony  Parish  at  an  expense  of  £8000,  and  a  handsome  church 
erected  at  a  cost  of  £7000  additional,  the  money  being  contri- 
buted chiefly  through  the  munificence  of  two  of  Glasgow's  most 
generous  merchant  princes,  the  Messrs.  Burns,  son  and  grandson 
of  the  well-known  Dr.  Burns,  who  for  sixty  years  had  been 
minister  of  the  Barony  Parish.  The  new  church  was  associated 
with  his  name,  and  intended  to  keep  alive  his  memory. 

Looking  to  all  this,  Dr.  Buchanan  once  remarked  that  only 
they  who  had  known  the  Wynds  in  their  former  state  could 
appreciate  the  change.  Many  a  day,  as  minister  of  the  parish, 
he  had  walked  sadly  and  sorrowfully  up  and  down  those  closes, 
and  climbed  dark  and  filthy  stairs,  where  it  was  difficult  to  get 
any  one  to  listen,  and  where  it  seemed  to  be  all  sowing  and  no 
reaping  ;  but  now,  what  a  difference !     He  had  gone  into  these 


744  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

lanes,  in  one  of  these  churches,  on  a  week-day  evening,  when  he 
could  hardlj'  get  to  the  church  door  for  the  crowd  that  was 
crathered  round  it.  "That  Wynd  district,  that  was  the  oppro- 
brium of  the  city,  to  which  strangers,  curious  in  such  sights,  were 
taken  that  they  might  see  to  what  depths  it  was  possible  for 
Iniman  beings  to  sink — that  very  district  had  become  within  a 
few  years  literally  a  centre  of  moral  and  religious  influence  in 
the  great  city  of  Glasgow."* 

While  all  this  was  going  on,  other  congregations  were  not 
idle.  Within  a  very  few  years  twenty  additional  Free  Church 
congregations  were  formed  in  the  Presbytery  of  Glasgow.  The 
whole  narrative  of  work  connected  with  the  Wynd  Church  is 
one  to  which  it  would  be  difficult  to  find  a  parallel  in  the 
history  of  Christian  effort.  But  what  gives  it  tenfold  interest 
is  the  earnest  spirituality  which  pervaded  the  whole  operations. 
It  was  the  winning  of  souls  that  was  the  one  grand  object  in 
view.  If  adherents  were  gained  for  the  Free  Church,  and 
churches  were  built  and  congregations  formed,  these  were 
secondary  results.  Here  was  a  degraded  population  perishing 
in  wretchedness  and  vice,  and  the  one  grand  question  was  how 
to  reclaim  those  backsliders,  and  to  rescue  those  of  our  own 
flesh  and  blood  who  were  ready  to  perish. 

It  is  impossible  for  us  here  to  attempt  any  sketch  of  what 
was  done  in  Dundee,  Aberdeen,  and  other  towns,  but  these  two 
examples — of  the  West  Port  in  Edinburgh,  and  the  Wynd 
Church  in  Glasgow — will  enable  the  reader  to  understand  how 
such  territorial  work  was  carried  on.  Though  the  results 
were  not  in  all  cases  equally  striking,  yet  over  the  whole 
field  there  were  tokens  of  blessing  for  which  men  might 
well  thank  God.  The  Church,  Dr.  Roxburgh  declared,  "  was 
not  sufficiently  aware  how  much  of  that  measure  of  Christian 
usefulness  to  which  she  had  attained  was  due  to  these  territorial 
operations.  He  could  name  twenty-six  of  these  stations,  which 
within  the  last  very  few  years  had  risen  into  congregations, 
some  of  them  most  vigorous  and  flourishing — some  of  them 
shining  as  centres  of  light  in  the  midst  of  the  darkest  and 
neediest  districts."-}-  It  was  a  noble  thing  to  listen  to  him  when, 
*  Blue  Book,  1861,  p.  107.  f  Blue  Book,  1859,  p.  203. 


THE  LARGER  CITIES. — HOME  MISSION  WORK.  745 

as  Convener  of  Home  Mission  Committee,  year  after  year  he 
laid  before  the  Assembly  a  review  of  this  work,  tlirilling  them 
with  his  appeals  and  making  men  feel  how  truly  this  was  the 
proper  work  of  the  Christian  Church.  All  too  soon  his  failing 
strength  forced  him  to  retire  from  his  post,  yet  not  less  did  the 
work  continue  to  prosper,  and  Dr.  Wilson,  his  successor,  was 
able  to  say  :  "  We  are  adding  year  after  year  to  the  number  of 
such  missions,  and  year  by  year  God  is  showing '  how  wide  and 
effectual  is  the  door  open  to  us  for  obtaining  access  to  the 
masses  of  the  population  crowding  the  lanes  and  closes  of  our 
large  cities.  And  if  I  may  venture  to  say  it,  nowhere  in  the 
field  of  missions  at  home  or  abroad  in  connection  with  the 
agency  of  the  Free  Church  has  such  an  abundant  blessing  been 
poured  out  as  in  connection  with  these  territorial  missions."  * 

»  Blue  Book,  1865,  p.  79. 


746  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 


LXT.  Results  of  the  Disruption. — Spiritual  Fruit. 

It  was  the  great  hope  of  the  Free  Church  that  the  Disruption, 
with  all  its  trials,  would  yet  prove  a  blessing  by  awakening  men 
to  a  sense  of  the  reality  and  power  of  vital  religion.  Such  an 
event  could  not  fail  to  have  a  powerful  effect  for  good  or  evil. 
All  Scotland  had  been  shaken — every  circle  of  society  had 
been  agitated ;  and  now,  when  we  look  back,  it  may  well  be 
asked,  How  far  did  the  cause  of  religion  gain  or  lose  ?  Various 
statements  bearing  on  this  occur  in  the  Disruption  Records. 

The  remark  of  a  working  man — "  a  pious  weaver,  a  student 
of  his  Bible " — is  mentioned  by  Dr.  Burns  of  Kilsyth.  For 
some  time  he  had  been  expecting  what  took  place.  "  The 
Church,"  he  said,  "including  the  different  denominations,"  had 
become  "  very  dormant,"  and  much  in  need  of  being  stirred  up. 
The  Lord  behoved  to  touch  the  mainspring.  He  had  begun  at 
the  house  of  God — the  ministers. 

Cases  have  occurred,  says  Mr.  Innes  of  Deskford,  Banffshire, 
in  which  individuals  have  traced  their  first  serious  impressions 
to  the  Disruption,  with  its  accompaniments — but  especially 
where  individuals,  well  disposed  before  that  event,  have  had  their 
ideas  of  the  reality  and  importance  of  vital  religion  greatly 
enlarged  and  strengthened.* 

Such  instances  confirm  the  remark  of  Dr.  Burns,  that  the 
Disruption,  as  "  a  practical  demonstration  of  the  power  of  the 
truth,"  was  "better  than  a  new  treatise  on  the  evidences  of 
Christianity." 

At  Larbert,  when  Dr.  John  Bonar,  as  all  men  expected,  proved 
true  to  his  colours,  and  took  part  in  the  Disruption,  the  effect 
on  the  parish  and  throughout  the  district  generally  was  to 

*  Diar.  Mss.  XV. 


RESULTS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. — SPIRITUAL  FRUIT.        747 

beget  and  spread  abroad  a  conviction  as  to  the  power  of  con- 
science and  the  practical  force  of  truth  which  itself  was,  as  the 
present  writer  knows,  and  has  good  reason  to  say,  a  powerful 
means  of  grace.  They  had  had  in  that  parish  some  experience 
of  forced  settlements  and  of  the  coldness  of  a  Moderate  ministry, 
and  they  questioned  whether  the  ministry  could  be  anything 
but  Moderate  and  time-serving.  Many  of  them  did  so  ;  yet  all, 
with  beautiful  and  most  natural  inconsistency,  thought  better 
of  their  own  minister,  and  it  came  to  them  like  a  pleasing 
proof  of  the  correctness  of  their  judgment,  whilst  it  was  an 
evidence  also  that  religion  is  real  and  has  power,  that  he  and 
many  more  were  valiant  and  true  in  the  hour  of  trial.  "We 
happen  to  know  that  a  thought  and  course  of  reasoning  of  this 
kind  had  very  strong  and  blessed  influence  in  Larbert ;  and  we 
believe  also  that  in  many  other  parts  of  the  land  as  well, 
Disruption  bravery  and  consistency  were  in  this  way  made  a 
blessing.  Men  saw  therein  the  power  of  religious  truth  and 
the  living  reality  of  evangelical  piety,  and  the  sight  availed  for 
bringing  them  "under  the  powers  of  the  world  to  come."* 

Still  more  were  these  impressions  confirmed  by  the  course  of 
Christian  usefulness  to  which  the  Church  devoted  herself.  In 
December,  1862,  nearly  twenty  years  after  the  Disruption,  a 
member  of  Parliament,  representing  one  of  the  largest  counties 
in  Scotland,  wrote  to  a  minister  of  the  Free  Church :  "  At  one 
time  I  thought  that  you  and  the  able  men  with  whom  you 
acted  were  wrong,  .  .  .  But  no  impartial  observer  can  look 
round  and  see  the  number  of  new  churches  and  new  schools 
which  have  been  built,  and  the  increased  number  of  ministers 
and  teachers,  without  frankly  admitting  that  the  formation  of 
the  Free  Church  has  been  a  great  blessing  to  Scotland."i- 

How  the  Disruption  roused  the  Church  in  her  own  pro- 
per sphere  was  obvious  even  to  strangers  from  a  distance. 
D'Aubigne,  for  example,  is  struck  by  the  life  and  earnestness 
apparent  in  the  very  aspect  of  the  General  Assembly  : — "  The 
hall  at  Canonmills  is  low,  but  under  its  bare  rafters  and 
rude    beams   there  was   assembled   an   enthusiastic   auditory, 

*  Disr.  Mss.  Ixiv. 

t  Bhie  Book,  Ixiii.  p.  7. 


748  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

filling  the  vast  area.  A  Scottish  assembly  is  no  gathering 
of  cold,  impassive  listeners,  as  those  in  Switzerland  and 
the  Continent  too  often  are ;  it  is  a  living  body  of  extreme 
sensibility,  ready  to  respond  to  every  touch.  These  multi- 
tudes feel  an  interest  in  the  discussions  affecting  the  cause  of 
God,  and  the  religious  interests  of  mankind,  more  keen  than 
the  world  does  in  political  debates.  Neither  in  the  Houses  of 
Parliament  in  London,  nor  in  the  Palais  Bourbon  in  Paris,  is  to 
be  seen  anything  like  what  is  witnessed  in  the  Canonmills  at 
Edinburgh."  The  world  "sneers  at  the  Church  ;  but  it  is  right 
to  show  that  she  can  feel  more  enthusiasm  for  the  cause  of 
Christ  than  the  world  does  for  political  and  material  interests."  * 

In  country  districts  even  the  most  remote  much  of  the  same 
earnestness  was  manifest — conspicuously  in  the  Highlands,  as 
we  have  seen  ;  but  in  many  a  Lowland  parish  also  men  were 
thirsting  for  the  Word.  Thus,  in  the  Synod  of  Merse  and 
Teviotdale,  with  its  seventy  parishes,  only  seventeen  ministers 
came  out.  Mr.  Wood,  of  Elie — then  of  Westruther — was  one 
of  the  number,  and  much  of  the  burden  of  giving  supply  was 
laid  on  him.  The  work  was  heavy,  but  full  of  encouragement. 
"  There  was  at  the  time  a  very  great  willingness  to  hear  the 
Gospel.  I  had  but  to  send  a  message  to  a  farm-steading  in 
the  forenoon  of  a  week-day,  and  I  had  a  good  congregation 
assembled  in  the  evening  to  hear  the  Word."  -f-  In  this  way 
the  supply  of  ordinances  was  kept  up  till  better  arrangements 
could  be  made. 

To  meet  this  state  of  mind,  ministers  everywhere  were  put- 
ting forth  all  their  powers.  Before  the  Disruption,  when  they 
were  prohibited  by  the  Court  of  Session  from  preaching  in 
Strathbogie,  the  sainted  Robert  M'Cheyne,  one  of  the  inter- 
dicted, gave  this  reply :  "  I  can  say  with  Paul  that  I  have 
preached  the  Gospel  from  Jerusalem  round  about  unto  Illyricum, 
and  no  power  on  earth  shall  keep  me  from  preaching  it  in  the 
dead  parishes  of  Scotland."  f  And  if  the  ministers  were  thus 
resolute,  the  audiences  were  equally  sympathetic.     A  survivor 

*  Free  Church  Mag.  v.  p.  25. 

t  Disr.  Mss.  1.  p.  35. 

J  Life  of  Duchess  of  Gordon,  p.  230. 


RESULTS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. — SPIRITUAL  FRUIT.        749 

from  these  times  in  Strathbogie  states  :  "  There  was  a  reverence 
and  anxiety  to  hear  the  Gospel  that  struck  all  that  attended 
those  meetings.  The  preachers  were  not  only  men  of  ability, 
but  they  preached  what  they  appeared  to  feel;  and  it  came 
home  with  power,  so  that  many,  young  and  old,  were  led  to  the 
knowledge  of  the  truth."  * 

And  as  in  Strathbogie,  so  it  was  generally  over  the  country 
after  the  impulse  of  1843. 

"  "We  enter  the  tent,"  says  Mr.  Hastings,  of  Wanlockhead, 
"  with  more  earnestness  and  seriousness  in  meditating  upon  our 
own  responsibility  ;  and  the  people  seem  to  listen  with  a  greater 
degree  of  attention  and  self-application." -f- 

At  Ardoch  "  there  has  been  a  greater  spiritual  concern  mani- 
fested, and  much  greater  solemnity  in  hearing  the  Gospel,  than 
before  the  Disruption,  especially  on  sacramental  occasions,  wheu 
the  sufferings  of  our  Lord  brought  nigh  made  His  people  forget 
their  own.  Indeed,  I  may  say  that  never  did  minister  or  people 
enjoy  such  seasons  so  much  before." :|: 

"  The  building  of  the  new  church  [Larbert]  was  at  once  pro- 
ceeded with,  the  style  to  be  pure  Tanfield  Hall  architecture; 
and  in  the  meantime  a  tent  was  erected  on  the  ground,  where 
regularly,  Sabbath  by  Sabbath,  the  usual  services  were  con- 
ducted with  a  fervour  and  earnestness  that  made  that  time  the 
happiest  to  himself,  we  believe,  of  all  John  Bonar's  ministry, 
as  certainly  it  was,  for  quickening,  to  the  people  the  most 
markedly  blessed.  The  stated  congregation  was  as  large  as  had 
been  the  average  attendance  in  the  parish  church,  and  with 
scarcely  an  individual  exception,  contained  all  within  the 
bounds  of  the  parish  who  had  at  any  time  given  evidence  of 
true  graciousness  of  mind.  This  was  true  less  or  more,  we 
believe,  of  the  general  constituency  of  the  Free  Church  through- 
out all  the  parishes  of  Scotland  at  the  time ;  but  in  Larbert  it 
was  very  specially  noticeable — a  thing  which,  indeed,  through- 
out the  whole  of  John  Bonar's  ministry  made  itself  manifest. 
While   gathering   the   godly  around   him,  he   had   the   effect 

*  Notes  by  Mr.  Robb,  Keith. 
t  Disr.  Mss.  xix.  p.  11. 
X  Disr.  Mss.  xiii.  p.  7. 


750  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

somehow  of  making  others  stand  apart  and  separate  themselves 
— a  state  of  things,  we  remember,  heightened  greatly  at  the 
time  when  Mr.  M'Cheyne  was  his  assistant,  and  arising,  we  do 
not  doubt,  from  subtile  and  fundamental  resemblance  between 
the  two  men.  Anyhow,  the  minister  was  cheered  by  seeing 
from  his  new  pulpit  the  faces  of,  we  may  say,  all  the  godly 
whom  he  had  been  wont  to  address,  and,  by-and-by,  of  many 
more  besides,  in  whom  even  he  must  have  thankfully  wondered 
at  seeing  spiritual  life  getting  developed."  * 

At  Kenmore  there  was  a  vacancy  of  nearly  three  years  after 
May,  1843,  but  under  the  influence  of  the  Marquis  of  Breadal- 
bane,  able  ministers  were  brought  to  supply  the  pulpit,  and  Mr, 
Sinclair,  on  entering  on  his  labours  in  the  spring  of  1846,  had 
"  abundant  evidence  "  that  the  preaching  had  been  blest  to  not 
a  few  of  the  people.  The  first  communion  in  the  summer  of 
1846  was  a  precious  and  refreshing  season — a  time  of  revival. 
"So  was  the  next  communion  in  the  winter  following.  In 
particular,  on  the  Sabbath,  and  during  a  powerful  and  affecting 
address  in  Gaelic  by  the  late  Mr.  M'Eae  of  Knockbain,  there 
was  an  impression  so  deep  and  general  that  it  has  left  its 
memories  to  this  day  [1877]  in  the  hearts  of  the  people."  -|- 

Such  earnestness  on  the  part  of  ministers  and  people  might 
well  be  expected  to  yield  fruit.  One  result  frequently  observed 
was  the  impulse  given  to  meetings  for  prayer  and  Christian 
fellowship  among  the  people.  In  the  East  Church  congregation, 
Aberdeen,  "  there  has  been  a  large  increase  in  the  number  of 
prayer-meetings  since  the  Disruption."  I 

In  the  parish  of  Monkton,  Mr.  M'Farlane  states,  "many  of  the 
elders  hold  prayer-meetings,  and  preside  at  fellowship  meetings, 
in  their  several  districts,  and  many  of  the  people  have  formed 
themselves  into  fellowship  associations,  meeting  once  every  fort- 
night. There  is  a  great  increase  in  regularity  of  attendance  on 
ordinances.  We  thankfully  receive  these  things  as  tokens  for 
good."  § 

Along  with  this  there  were  other  encouraging  results. 

*  Disr.  Mss.  Ixiv.  p.  8. 
t  Ibid.,  IxiiL  p.  6. 
Z  Ihid.,  xxiv.  p.  3. 
§  Ihid.,  xxxiv.  p.  4. 


RESULTS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. — SPIRITUAL  FRUIT.        751 

At  Galston,  Mr.  M'ludoe  states,  "there  are  several  cases 
"well  attested  of  individuals  who  have  become  sober  and 
orderly  in  their  conduct  since  their  adherence  to  the  Free 
Church."  * 

"  I  have  no  doubt  that  by  God's  grace  it  was  a  time  of  spiritual 
quickening  to  many,  instances  of  this  kind  having  come  under 
my  own  observation.  The  spirit  of  Christian  love,  unity,  and 
liberality  which  prevailed,  powerfully  helped  to  sustain  and 
animate  us  in  the  great  and  onerous  work  then  laid  to  our 
hands."  t 

But  what  men  longed  to  see  were  the  true  fruits  of  the  Christ- 
ian ministry — the  actual  conversion  of  souls  ;  and  this  blessing 
was  not  withheld.  Sometimes  it  was  given  as  the  result  of 
private  dealing  on  the  part  of  the  people  themselves. 

"  A  young  woman,  whose  parents  were  both  exceedingly 
hostile  to  the  Free  Church  movement,  happened  at  the  Disruption 
to  be  a  servant  in  the  house  of  an  old  farmer,  who  was  a  man  of 
decided  piety,  and  cordially  attached  to  our  cause.  In  this  house 
she  was  first  taught  to  think  seriously,  and  pray  to  God  for  her 
soul's  salvation.  She  went  along  with  her  master,  and  became 
a  member  of  our  Church.  This  step  was  so  repugnant  to  the 
feelings  of  her  parents  that  they  would  scarcely  permit  her  for  a 
time  to  come  under  their  roof.  One  day  her  father  said,  "  Your 
master  has  deluded  you,  and  led  you  astray."  She  replied, 
"  Father,  I  got  much  good  from  my  master ;  he  put  a  question 
to  me  you  never  put ;  he  asked  me  if  I  ever  prayed  to  God, 
and  was  in  earnest  about  my  soul."  Her  father,  whose  house 
was  a  stranger  to  the  exercises  of  family  worship,  made  no 
reply.  This  youthful  disciple  has  continued  firm  and  faithful, 
though  her  old  master  is  now  in  his  grave.  | 

More  frequently  such  cases  of  conversion  were  met  with  in 
connection  with  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel. 

Mr.  Gibson,  of  Kirkbean,  has  no  doubt,  from  what  had  come 
under  his  own  observation,  that  the  Disruption  has  been  "  in  its 
own  sphere  instrumental  in  producing  the  conversion  of  many 

*  Disr.  Mbs.  XXXV.  p.  6. 
t  Disr.  Mas.  Ixxi.  p.  12. 
t  Disr.  Mss  xxxi. 


752  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

souls.  .  .  .  Many  are  under  deep  impression,  and  are  asking 
the  way  to  Zion."  * 

Mr.  Fergusson,  of  Dunnichen,  laboured  not  only  in  his  own 
parish  but  among  the  other  congregations  in  the  Presbytery  of 
Forfar: — "We  had  a  busy  time  during  that  summer  [1843] 
and  autumn,  but  I  believe  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  was 
honouring  the  means  of  grace  as  I  have  seldom,  if  ever,  seen 
them  honoured  before  or  since.  '  I  believe,'  says  Mr. 
Edgar  [of  Memus]  in  a  letter  to  me,  '  that  there  are  souls 
who  trace  their  conversion  to  the  sermons  in  the  cart -shed 
at  West  Memus ; '  and  perhaps  there  was  not  one  of 
these  congregations  that  had  not  trophies  of  Divine  grace 
among  them  as  the  result  of  those  post-Disruption  ministra- 
tions."-f- 

It  was  in  these  results  that  ministers  found  their  best 
comforts  in  the  midst  of  trial.  One  of  those  who  belonged  to 
the  South  of  Scotland,  refers  to  this  experience  : — 

"  As  for  house  accommodation  I  had  for  two  years  a  poor, 
thatched  cottage  with  two  rooms  and  a  closet — the  ceiling  of 
neither  of  the  rooms  being  above  six  feet  in  height."  In  one  of 
them  the  ceiling  stooped  so  much  at  the  sides  that  "  I  had  to 
stoop  low  to  see  out  of  the  small  window."  And  illness  came,  and 
death,  making  that  small  cottage  a  scene  of  sore  bereavement. 
As  years  went  on  the  prospects  brightened.  "  Means  were  pro- 
vided for  a  comfortable  old  age.  I  not  only  never  regretted 
for  one  moment  the  sacrifices  I  had  made,  but  even  in  the 
darkest  hours  of  poverty,  bereavement,  and  distress,  I  could  say, 
and  can  say  still,  He  hath  given  me  *  an  hundred-fold  more, 
even  in  this  present  life,'  than  aU  that  was  given  up,  in  satis- 
faction, and  peace,  and  a  competent  portion  of  the  things  of  this 
life,  with  the  good  hope,  which  is  far  better,  in  the  world  to  come 
of  life  everlasting.  But  more  still, — He  has  given  me  jewels  to 
place  in  Christ's  crown, — some  of  the  brightest  and  purest,  dug 
out  of  the  earth,  and  some  out  of  the  mire,  polished  by  the  hand 
of  God  himself:" 

Some  of  the  most  eminent  ministers  of  the  Church  visited 

*  Disr.  Mss,  yyiii-  p.  8. 
tDisr.  Mss.  IxxviiL  p.  13. 


RESULTS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. — SPIRITUAL  FRUIT.        753 

Strathbogie,  and  preached  in  all  the    seven    parishes    of    the 
suspended  ministers. 

"The  Gospel  was  a  new  thing  in  these  congregations,  and 
the  ministrations  of  the  evangelical  ministers  were  accompanied 
by  a  rich  blessing,  which  had  the  effect  of  awakening  a  deep 
interest  in  spiritual  matters,  and  resulted  in  the  saving  con- 
version of  many  souls. 

"  There  was  one  elder  in  Keith,  Mr.  Mitchell,  who  had  long 
been  praying  for  a  blessing  on  that  place,  and  finding  few 
in  the  Established  Church  who  were  willing  to  join  with  him 
in  prayer,  had  formed  a  united  prayer-meeting  consisting  of 
Independents  and  United  Presbyterians.  One  of  the  two 
Secession  churches  in  Keith  happened  to  be  vacant,  and  this 
church  was  used  by  the  congregation  adhering  to  the  prin- 
ciples of  the  Free  Church  as  a  place  of  worship.  That 
church  was  the  birth-place  of  many  souls.  Such  was  the 
desire  for  prayer  that  in  the  parish  of  Keith,  where  in  184-0  only 
one  elder  connected  with  the  Established  Church  was  found 
to  take  part  in  a  meeting  for  prayer,  in  1842  seven  prayer- 
meetings  were  held  every  week  in  various  districts  of  the 
parish,  conducted  by  members  of  the  congregation,  in  addition 
to  the  weekly  prayer-meeting  held  in  the  church,  and  a  Sabbath 
morning  meeting,  attended  by  upwards  of  a  hundred,  in  the 
house  occupied  by  the  probationer. 

"The  first  communion  dispensed  in  connection  with  the 
General  Assembly's  ministers,  as  they  were  called,  was  a  very 
memorable  occasion. 

"  Sixty  young  persons  applied  for  admission  to  the  Lord's 
table,  and  a  great  number  of  them  gave  most  satisfactory  evidence 
of  having  given  their  hearts  to  the  Lord.  Mr.  ISI'Donald,  of 
Blairgowrie,  now  Dr.  M'Donald  of  North  Leith,  assisted  on  the 
Sabbath,  and  such  was  the  interest  awakened  under  the  preach- 
ing during  that  season,  that  on  Tuesday  morning,  at  seven 
o'clock,  the  church  was  crowded  to  receive  a  parting  word  from 
Mr.  M'Donald,  before  he  left  by  the  coach  at  nine  o'clock. 
That  communion  was  the  beginning  of  a  work  of  grace,  the 
fruits  of  which  are  yet  apparent  in  the  life  and  conversation 
of   many    who   are   now   office-bearers   and   members    in   the 

3C 


754  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

congregation.  Some  who  are  now  honoured  and  faithful 
ministers  of  the  Free  Church  attended  the  Sabbath  school  and 
Bible  classes  held  during  these  years  in  Keith."  * 

An  Independent  minister  wrote  Dr.  Guthrie  to  say  that  he 
had  a  brother  who  had  gone  astray,  and  was  sent  abroad  that  he 
might  not  disgrace  his  friends.  Years  afterwards,  in  a  distant 
land,  that  brother  had  been  reached  by  the  grace  of  God — been 
plucked  as- a  brand  from  the  burning;  and  it  was  a  sentence  in 
one  of  the  sermons  which  Dr.  Guthrie  had  preached  many  years 
before  in  Strathbogie  which  had  been  blessed  as  the  means  of 
his  conversion.  The  seed  of  the  Word  had  sprung  up  into 
eternal  life,  f 

One  remarkable  circumstance  was  the  frequency  with  which 
Free  Church  ministers  were  called  to  attend  the  death-beds 
of  those  who  had  been  opposed  to  them  during  life. 

In  Covenanting  times  this  had  been  the  experience  of  the 
persecuted  ministers,  as  in  the  well-known  case  of  the  Duke  of 
Kothes,  who  sent  for  some  of  them  to  comfort  him  in  his  dying 
hours,  giving  occasion  to  the  remark  of  his  friend  the  Duke  of 
Hamilton :  "  This  is  melancholy  work ;  we  banish  these  men 
from  us,  and  yet  when  dying  we  call  for  them."  Something  of 
the  same  kind  was  no  infrequent  experience  after  the  Dis- 
ruption. 

At  Stanley,  Perthshire,  for  example,  Mr.  Mather  of  Stanley 
was  often  sent  for  to  visit  the  dying  not  connected  with  his 
"  denomination,  and  even  by  those  who  were  unfriendly  to  it. 
To  these  calls  he  was  always  ready  to  respond,  deeming  it 
sufficient  reward  if  he  should  be  the  means  of  cheering  the 
dying,  and  of  throwing  light  upon  the  dark  valley  through  which 
their  spirits  were  about  to  pass." 

In  no  case  was  this  more  remarkably  seen  than  in  the  experi- 
ence of  Dr.  John  Bruce  of  Edinburgh.  Before  the  Disruption 
"  he  was  pastor  of  a  congregation  which  had  long  been  under  a 
succession  of  able  Moderate  ministers,  having  as  members  of 
it  the  Lord  President  of  the  Court  of  Session  and  other  legal 
functionaries,  as   well  as  non-professional  men  of  high  social 

*  Disr.  Mss.  Ixxxiv. 
t  Memoir,  vol.  ii.  p.  20. 


RESULTS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. — SPIRITUAL  FRUIT.        755 

position,  most  of  them  stroni^  in  their  conservative  tendencies, 
as  well  as  gentlemen  of  excellent  personal  character." 

When  the  Disruption  came,  the  parting  between  pastor  and 
people  had  been  more  than  usually  painful.  "  It  is  an  instructive 
fact,"  says  Mr.  Burns  in  his  interesting  "  Biographical  Sketch,"  * 
"  that  though  none  of  Dr.  Bruce's  old  elders  in  St.  Andrew's 
Church  ever  came  to  hear  him  after  their  separation,  several  of 
them,  and  these  the  most  conspicuous,  as  well  as  other  private 
members  of  the  congregation,  were  at  their  own  request 
ministered  to  by  hiiu  on  their  death-beds." 

At  Huntly,  Mr.  Sinclair  found  that  his  visits  as  a  Free  Church 
minister  were  welcomed  by  the  adherents  of  the  Establishment. 
Especially  were  those  visits  welcomed  in  times  of  sickness  where 
death  seemed  to  be  in  the  cup.  One  case  he  mentions  of  the 
daughter  of  a  man  in  good  position,  a  leading  supporter  of  the 
Establishment,  who  was  attacked  by  severe  illness.  She  pro- 
fessed to  have  examined  the  Church  question,  and  adhered  on 
principle  to  the  Established  Church.  Under  the  hand  of  disease 
her  conscience  was  awakened,  and  her  mind  filled  with  distress 
as  to  her  spiritual  state.  The  visits  and  exhortations  of  her  own 
minister  gave  her  no  relief,  and  Mr.  Sinclair  was  sent  for.  The 
Church  question  was  of  course  left  in  abeyance,  "  both  she  and 
I  feeling  that  we  had  other  and  more  important  business  in  hand," 
Finding  the  state  in  which  she  was,  Mr.  Sinclair  sought  to  probe 
the  wound,  exhibiting  at  once  her  guilt  and  the  remedy,  and  the 
result  was  an  almost  immediate  closing  with  the  offer  of  salva- 
tion in  Christ.  She  grew  rapidly  in  grace,  her  spirit  naturally 
was  deeply  humbled,  and  all  who  saw  her  wondered  at  the 
heavenly  sweetness  which  her  very  looks  exhibited.  She  felt 
it  her  duty  to  see  her  former  pastor,  and  give  her  testimony  that 
"  should  she  recover  she  could  no  longer  adhere  to  his  ministry, 
but  must  go  to  the  Free  Church."  f 

Mr,  Taylor,  of  Flisk,  mentions  an  instance  in  his  experience. 
The  daughter  of  a  neighbouring  landholder  had  been  taken 
suddenly  ill.  She  was  about  eighteen  or  nineteen  years  of  age, 
when  symptoms  of  consumption  showed  themselves,  and  he 

*  P.  89, 

+  Disr.  Ms3,  X- 


756  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

was  asked  to  call : — "  For  eight  or  nine  months  I  visited  her, 
speaking  to  her  as  an  invalid,  and  praying  with  her.  It  was 
only  at  the  very  last  that  I  saw  the  impression  which  had  been 
produced.  All  along  there  had  been  great  gentleness  and 
willincrness  to  enter  into  the  exercises  ;  but  she  was  able  to  walk 
out  and  sit  up  all  day,  and  being  naturally  reserved,  she  had 
not  expressed  to  me  anything  which  indicated  real  concern.  It 
was  for  my  last  interview  this  was  reserved.  Her  brother  was 
sent  up  to  tell  me  that  she  had  become  rapidly  worse.  I  rode 
down  quickly  and  saw  how  hastily  the  disease  had  hurried  on. 
Death  was  busy  changing  her  beautiful  countenance  and  glazing 
her  soft  eye.  I  repeated  some  passages  of  Scripture  and  prayed 
with  her,  and  then  it  was  that,  in  the  most  simple  manner,  she 
gave  utterance  to  her  feelings,  and  begged  me,  after  she  was 
gone,  to  continue  my  visits  to  the  family.  It  was  a  most  touch - 
inc  scene,  and  I  yet  remember  the  part  of  the  road  where,  on 
returning  on  horseback,  I  lifted  up  a  full  heart  in  thanksgiving 
to  the  Lord.  I  need  not  particularise  more  cases ;  but  I  may 
remark  that  when  a  minister  goes  to  a  sick-chamber  with  the 
simple  aim  of  speaking  a  word  in  season  to  the  weary  sufferer, 
and  when  in  answer  to  the  silent  uplifting  of  his  soul  on  the  way, 
he  is  guided  to  a  right  diagnosis  of  the  case,  and  the  Lord  has 
sped  him  in  the  visit,  few  parts  of  the  ministerial  work  are  more 
solacing  and  instructive  to  himself.  To  several  individuals  be- 
longing to  the  Established  Church  I  have  been  privileged  thus  to 
minister ;  and  in  one  or  two  cases  the  widows,  seeing  how  these 
visits  have  been  viewed,  have,  with  their  families,  connected 
themselves  with  the  Free  Church."  * 

The  subject  is  not  often  referred  to  in  the  Disruption  Mss., 
but  the  above  are  instances  of  what  was  no  unusual  experience 
all  over  Scotland,  giving  to  the  ministers  of  the  Free  Church 
many  an  opportunity  of  usefulness  of  which  they  gladly  availed 
themselves. 

Of  those  cases  of  conversion  which  were  met  with  in  Disrup- 
tion times  not  a  few  occurred  in  remarkable  circumstances. 

While  attending  a  meeting  of  the  General  Assembly,  Mr. 
"Wood  of  Elie,  not  long  before  his  death,  was  walking  in  the 
*  Disr.  Mss.  xxsvii.  p.  10. 


RESULTS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. — SPIRITUAL  FRUIT.        757 

corridor,  when  he  was  addressed  by  an  elder  from  the  country. 
"  You  will  not  remember  me,  Mr.  Wood,  The  last  time  we  met 
was  in  February,  1843,  at  Dinwoodie  Green." 

"  I  remember  the  meeting  well,  but  I  cannot  recall  having 
met  you." 

"  Ah,  we  were  both  young  then  ;  we  are  changed  now.  But 
I  want  to  tell  you  that  that  meeting  was  the  means  of  my  con- 
version," 

Of  the  interesting  conversation  which  followed,  Mr.  Wood 
did  not  mention  the  details ;  but  he  referred  to  the  great  pleasure 
which  the  interview  had  given  him. 

A  Dumfriesshire  minister,  however,  the  Eev.  Mr.  Smith  of 
Half-Morton,  who  knows  the  circumstances,  supplies  fuller  infor- 
mation. The  parishioners  of  Applegarth — as  told  in  a  former 
section  of  these  Annals — were  engaged  in  the  game  of  curling, 
when  their  minister  called  them  to  aid  him  in  opposing  the  Non- 
intrusion deputation.  The  young  man  was  one  of  the  company 
who  left  the  ice  and  crowded  into  the  barn.  Nothing  unusual 
occurred  during  the  singing  of  the  psalm  or  prayer,  but  when  Mr. 
Clark,  of  Half-Morton,  was  reading  the  4th  chapter  of  Acts,  a 
strange  feeling  came  over  him — a  sense  of  sin  such  as  he  never 
had  before  experienced.  Every  successive  sentence  seemed  to 
strike  a  new  chord  of  feeling  in  the  young  man's  heart,  and  before 
the  twentieth  verse  had  been  reached,  he  felt  himself  standing 
naked  and  defenceless  in  the  very  presence  of  the  Lord.  With 
difficulty  he  restrained  his  emotions,  and  would  have  made  his 
escape  from  the  meeting  if  the  dense  crowd  had  allowed  him  to  do 
so  without  disturbing  an  assembly  of  men  in  whom  the  light  of 
subdued  and  solemnised  feeling  was  already  displayed.  The 
same  spirit  that  led  him  to  look  into  the  darksome  abyss  of  sin, 
showed  him  Christ  in  the  richness  of  His  grace.  He  became  a 
changed  man,  and  has  continued  for  these  forty  years  to  Avalk 
worthy  of  his  calKng.  As  a  Christian,  his  hand  has  been  ready 
for  every  good  work.  As  an  elder  of  the  Free  Church,  he  has 
striven  in  every  possible  way  to  advance  her  interests  and 
maintain  her  honour.  Mr.  William  Brockie,  whose  portrait 
many  in  Annaudale  will  recognise  in  these  statements,  has  said 
in  regard  to  that  meeting :  "  How  many  like  myself  were  con- 


758  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

vinced  of  sin  I  never  got  to  know ;  but  of  this  I  am  certain, 
that  there  was  a  power  greater  and  higher  than  the  arguments 
of  the  deputation,  convincing  though  they  were — a  power  mov- 
ing on  the  hearts  of  that  meeting,  constraining  them  to  disobey 
the  order  of  their  much  respected  minister  to  leave  the  meeting 
at  the  end  of  his  own  address." 

These  were  not  the  only  results.  Multitudes  flocked  to  a 
service  conducted  by  Mr.  Wood  on  the  following  Sabbath,  in 
the  church  of  the  neighbouring  parish  of  Dryfesdale.  The 
truth  was  felt  in  much  of  its  power  over  the  district.  The 
settlement  of  Mr.  Hugh  M'Bryde  Broun  at  Lochmaben,  and  Mr. 
Thomas  Duncan  at  Lockerbie,  contributed  to  deepen  and  extend 
the  impression.  The  cause  of  Christ  was  greatly  revived  in 
connection  with  their  varied  services  on  Sabbath  days  and  week 
days. 

The  meeting  at  Dinwoodie  Green  should  not  be  dismissed 
without  referring  to  another  fact.  The  three  ploughmen  on  the 
farm  gave  in  their  adherence  to  the  Free  Church  in  consequence 
of  what  they  heard  and  felt  on  the  occasion ;  and  what  is  far 
better,  furnished  evidence  of  having  given  their  hearts  to 
Christ. 

At  Jedburgh,  Mr.  Purves  records  a  noble  instance  of  God 
honouring  a  firm  adherence  to  principle,  when  apparently  expedi- 
ency of  the  highest  kind,  and  human  and  even  Christian  affec- 
tions would  point  in  the  opposite  way.  All  the  particulars  are 
from  the  parties'  own  lips.  In  a  manufacturing  town  about 
ten  miles  from  this,  lived  a  couple  not  equally  yoked.  The 
wife  is  one  of  the  excellent  of  the  earth,  meek,  gentle.  Christian, 
devoted.  Her  husband,  a  large  manufacturer,  naturally  very 
fiery  and  imperious  in  his  temper,  had  quarrelled  with  the 
parish  minister,  and  made  this  a  pretext  for  deserting  all 
church-going  habits,  and  abandoning  himself  to  open  un- 
godliness. Both  his  and  her  friends  having  resolved  to  remain 
in  the  Establishment  themselves,  seized  on  the  circumstance 
of  his  hatred  to  the  parish  minister,  one  of  the  convocationists, 
as  affording  the  finest  opportunity  for  retaining  her  in  the 
Church.  "  Now,"  they  said,  "  is  the  salvation  of  your  husband 
in  your  own  hand  ?  if  you  remain  in  the  Church  he  will  return 


RESULTS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. — SPIRITUAL  FRUIT.       759 

with   you  to   the  house  of  God  whenever  Mr.  leaves." 

Nothing  could  be  more  likely,  nor  more  desirable  to  all  the 
natural  and  Christian  affections  of  a  wife.  She  felt  the 
temptation  to  be  very  strong,  the  more  especially  as  the  retiring 
minister  had  never  been  very  profitable  to  her.  She  resolved 
on  her  knees  to  consider  the  point  of  duty,  and  to  cry  for  grace 
to  follow  it.  The  result  was  a  firm  conviction  that  the  truth 
of  Christ  was  with  the  party  leaving  the  Establishment,  and 
that  with  them  she  must  cast  in  her  lot,  come  what  might 
either  to  herself  or  others  dear  to  her.  She  did  so.  On  the 
second  Sabbath  after  the  Disruption  her  husband  came  down 
to  Jedburgh  on  some  business,  and  to  see  a  friend  away. 
We  then  met  in  a  room  in  the  Inn,  for  the  Dissenters  did  not 
look  on  us  with  a  more  kindly  eye  than  the  Establishment.  The 
novelty  of  the  place  made  him  an  auditor,  and  an  attentive  one 
he  seemed  to  be  ;  but  no  very  decided  impression  was  left  on  his 
mind.  Next  Sabbath  morning,  rising  early,  as  his  practice 
always  was,  and  walking  out  to  see  his  horses,  "  What  shall  I 
do  with  myself  to-day  ?  "  he  asked,  when  suddenly  the  thought 
darted  like  lightning  into  his  mind,  "  I'll  go  down  to  Jedburgh 
again."  His  gig  was  got  instantly  ready,  and  a  second  time  he 
appeared  among  us.  And  a  blessed  time  it  was  to  him  and  all 
his  house.  The  very  place,  the  psalm,  the  prayer,  seemed  to 
bring  a  strange,  unwonted  awe  upon  his  mind,  as  he  afterwards 
told  me,  and  the  sermon  ten-fold  deepened  the  impression.  The 
sermon  was  on  the  joy  of  believing  the  Gospel.  I  saw  the  strange 
and  arrested  face,  and  noticed  the  unconscious,  involuntary  signs 
of  deep  emotion.  The  arrow  went  to  his  heart.  He  returned  to 
his  home,  an  awakened,  changed  being,  and  made  open  avowal 
of  it  there.  It  may  be  well  conceived  what  must  have  been  the 
feelings  of  his  pious  wife,  half  afraid  her  leaving  the  Church 
might  result  in  the  ruin  of  her  husband,  when  on  the  third 
Sabbath  thereafter,  he  came  home  to  her,  Saul  like,  a  new 
creature.  The  change  produced  a  deep  sensation  in  the  whole 
place,  his  previous  carelessness  had  been  so  conspicuous,  and 
the  revolution  now  effected  standing  out  to  every  eye.  With 
characteristic  boldness  he  avowed  his  change  to  everybody. 
Every  Sabbath,  he  who  never  entered  a  place  of  worship  at  his 


760  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

door,  was  seen  to  set  out  on  a  ten-mile  journey  to  the  house  of 
God,  Numbers  used  to  turn  out  at  the  early  hour  to  assure 
their  eyes  of  a  fact  so  strange.  Though  he  liked  to  be  fed, 
however,  at  the  place  where  he  was  born  again,  and  these  four 
years  has  scarcely  ever  once  been  absent  summer  or  winter, 
trying  also  to  bring  as  many  with  him  as  he  can,  it  should  be 
mentioned  as  an  evidence  of  the  genuineness  of  his  change, 
that  he  immediately  went  and  was  reconciled  to  the  minister 
with  whom  he  had  been  at  war,  and  now  presents  the  beautiful 
spectacle  of  helping  that  minister  in  any  of  his  schemes,  and  in 
driving  him  in  his  gig  whenever  on  a  week-day  he  has  occasion 
to  go  from  home  to  preach.  And,  perhaps,  a  still  more  un- 
equivocal evidence  is  afforded  in  the  saying  of  his  wife  to  an 
intimate,  who  mentioned  it  to  me :  "  What  a  change  now 
in  our  house ;  it  is  like  heaven  in  comparison  with  what  once  it 
was !  "  How  much  better  to  follow  the  plain  path  of  principle 
and  duty  at  the  risk  of  every  consequence,  than  to  give  ear  to 
the  plans  of  human  expediency,  or  even  the  pleadings  of  Christ- 
ian, yet  mere  affection.  This  good  woman  followed  God,  dark 
to  nature  as  the  step  seemed  to  be,  and  immediately  all  was 
light.     The  heavens  dropped  down  fatness  on  her." 

The  late  James  Miller,  Professor  of  Surgery  in  the  Edin- 
burgh University,  was  at  first  strongly  opposed  to  the  idea  of  a 
Disruption  from  the  Established  Church.  His  father  and  elder 
brother  being  both  ministers  in  the  Church,  and  his  house  in 
Edinburgh  being  their  home  during  Assembly  times  and  on  other 
occasions  when  they  came  to  Edinburgh,  Mr.  Miller  frequently 
heard  and  joined  in  discussions  on  the  principles  of  the  evan- 
gelical and  moderate  parties  in  the  Church,  Though  both  his 
father  and  brother  held  the  evangelical  principles  strongly, 
Professor  Miller  did  not  agree  with  them,  and  always  main- 
tained that  it  was  both  a  foolish  and  wrong  thing  to  leave  the 
Establisiiment  for  a  mere  fancy  or  idea.  His  opposition  was 
due  to  the  fact  that  he  had  never  studied  the  question,  and  also 
to  the  fact  that  at  that  time  he  was  not  a  converted  man.  But 
as  he  was  not  of  a  mind  that  could  long  remain  unacquainted 
with  what  was  interesting  so  keenly  others  around  him,  he 
determined  to  examine  the  whole  matter  for  himself,  and  go  to 


RESULTS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. — SPIRITUAL  FRUIT.       761 

the  fountain-head  of  all  truth.  Accordingly,  he  resolved  to 
study  the  Bible  with  a  view  to  ascertain  whether  the  doctrine 
of  the  headship  of  Christ  had  Scriptural  foundations  or  not. 
The  result  was  as  might  be  expected.  He  became  convinced 
that  the  evangelical  party  in  the  Church  were  right ;  but  not 
only  so — in  studying  the  Word  he  found  Clirist  Himself,  the 
doctrine  of  whose  Headship  he  afterwards  maintained  by  joining 
the  Free  Church. 

"  His  studying  of  the  Scriptures  was  conducted  secretly,  and 
though  it  was  known  and  talked  of  among  his  family  that 
something  was  engrossing  him,  and  that  he  was  studying  some 
book  very  earnestly,  yet  it  was  not  known  till  afterwards  that 
it  was  the  Bible ;  and  also  the  fact  of  his  change  of  opinion  as 
to  the  propriety  of  leaving  the  Establishment  was  not  known 
till  he  joined  the  Free  Church.  On  the  day  of  the  Disruption 
he  was  confined  to  bed ;  but  on  hearing  of  the  event,  and  of  his 
father  and  brother  being  '  out,'  with  a  sigh  he  said  to  one  of 
his  sisters  who  brought  him  the  news,  'Well,  I  must  go  out  too.' 

"  It  was  thus  that  the  events  connected  with  the  Disruption 
were  the  means  of  bringing  about,  in  God's  providence,  the 
conversion  of  Professor  James  Miller,  a  man  who  among  all  his 
friends  was  considered  a  typical  Christian,  active,  earnest,  and 
joyous."* 

Another  memorable  instance  was  that  of  Mr.  Rattray  of 
Brewlands,  in  Glenisla.  "  He  was  the  second  largest  proprietor 
in  the  Glen,  and  was  like  a  father  to  the  people  of  that 
sequestered  strath,  residing  in  the  midst  of  them — the  wise 
counsellor  and  kind  helper  of  all  who  needed  advice  or  assist- 
ance. 

"At  first  he  was  by  no  means  favourable  to  the  Free  Church, 
but  the  circumstances  wliich  have  already  been  referred  to  in 
these  Annals  led  to  his  taking  up  the  cause.  '  His  hospitable 
house  was  opened  to  the  ministers  who  preached  in  the  Glen  ; 
and  his  intercourse  with  them  awakened  in  his  mind  a  deep 
interest  in  evangelical  truth.  He  listened  with  great  delight  to 
the  preaching  of  the  Gospel — the  old  old  story,  which  since  the 
days  of  Martin  had  rarely  been  heard  in  that  district.  He  was 
*  Statement  by  Dr.  A.  Miller. 


762  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

greatly  instrumental  in  the  organisation  of  the  congregation 
and  the  erection  of  the  church  and  manse,  the  completion  of 
which,  free  of  debt,  he  was  permitted  to  witness.  In  all  these 
efforts  for  the  advancement  of  the  cause  of  Christ  he  received 
the  cordial  co-operation  of  Mrs.  Rattray,  and  his  liberal  spirit 
had  the  effect  of  stimulating  the  congregation  to  efforts  similar 
to  his  own."  * 

Dr.  Wilson  of  Dundee — now  of  Edinburgh — was  one  of  those 
to  whom  Mr.  Eattray  opened  his  mind.  "  I  was  invited,"  he 
says,  "  to  go  to  the  Glen  and  expound  to  the  people  the  principles 
of  the  Free  Church,  and  the  conditions  under  which  the  present 
Established  Church  was  constituted.  There  was  a  large  meeting, 
which  was  held  in  the  open  air  on  a  fine  summer  evening,  and 
I  have  since  been  told  that  no  person,  young  or  old,  who 
attended  that  meeting  continued  to  adhere  to  the  Established 
Church.  I  was  the  guest  of  Mr.  Eattray,  and  remember  being 
very  much  impressed  with  what  he  said  in  the  course  of  the 
evening,  as  indicating  that  the  cause  of  the  Free  Church,  which 
he  had  espoused,  was  not,  at  the  root  of  it,  an  ecclesiastical  or 
political  movement,  but  in  the  deepest  sense  religious.  He 
spoke  with  trembling  tones  of  the  new  interest  he  felt  in  the 
Gospel  of  grace,  and  of  the  new  sense  of  indebtedness  to  Christ 
which  had  been  awakened  within  him.  He  said  that  some  of 
his  old  friends  had  been  representing  to  him  how  much  his 
adherence  to  the  Free  Church  would  cost  him,  what  large  demands 
would  necessarily  be  made  upon  him  for  the  building  of  a  new 
church  and  manse,  and  for  giving  a  site  for  both,  besides  for 
the  maintenance  of  a  minister  of  the  Free  Church  from  year  to 
year.  He  said  he  was  by  no  means  blind  to  these  facts,  and 
had  his  mind  been  in  the  same  state  as  formerly  they  might 
have  diverted  him  from  the  course  he  was  pursuing.  '  But,'  he 
added,  '  these  people  do  not  know  that  these  things  are  a  great 
inducement  to  me  to  persevere.  1  cannot  tell  what  pleasure  it 
gives  me  to  be  called  upon  to  give,  and  to  be  able  to  do  it.  It 
has  been  to  me  a  new  and  delightful  sensation  to  give — to  know 
that  the  Lord  Jesus  is  conferring  on  me  the  privilege  of  doing- 
some  little  thing  for  Him  to  whom  I  owe  all." 
*  Disr.  Mss.  Ixxxv. 


RESULTS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. — SPIRITUAL  FRUIT.        763 

Animated  by  such  principles,  he  was,  as  might  have  been 
expected,  liberal  in  his  gifts.  Besides  subscribing  for  the  erection 
of  church  and  manse,  he  paid  off  all  the  debt  remaining  on  the 
buildings  after  they  were  finished.  He  gave  the  site  for  church 
and  manse  along  with  five  acres  of  land  as  a  glebe,  at  a  merely 
nominal  feu-duty.  Half  the  cost  of  building  the  congregational 
school  was  paid  by  him.  By  will  he  left  a  property  valued  at 
£6000  to  certain  mission  schemes  of  the  Free  Church,  besides 
£20  a-year  to  the  congregational  school.  And  finally  he 
bequeathed  £50  a-year  as  a  permanent  contribution  to  the 
Sustentation  Fund  of  the  congregation  in  Glenisla.* 

It  was  not  long  before  his  end  that  these  generous  arrange- 
ments were  completed,  and  soon  afiliction  came.  His  only  son 
— a  most  promising  boy — was  removed  by  death  about  a  week 
before  himself.  "I  visited  him,"  says  Mr.  Bain,  of  Coupar- 
Angus,  "  on  his  dying  bed  at  Bridge  of  Allan,  where  he  had 
gone  for  his  health,  and  I  was  greatly  cheered  to  find  how 
abundantly  the  Lord  had  rewarded  him  for  his  efforts  in 
advancing  His  cause  by  the  calm  peace  and  full  assurance  which 
he  possessed  ;  '  I  found  Christ'  said  he  to  me,  'in  that  tent,' 
referring  to  the  temporary  erection  which  had  been  put  up 
before  the  church  was  built." 

Father  and  son  were  laid  in  the  same  grave,  and  his  memory 
is  still  cherished  with  the  deepest  afiection  in  the  Glen,  where 
he  had  been  so  long  and  so  universally  loved. 

One  additional  example  may  be  given  from  the  Presbytery  of 
Breadalbane  : — "  In  a  populous  parish  in  the  Presbytery,  one 
solitary  member  of  the  kirk-session  came  out.  He  was  a  farmer, 
a  steady  man  of  good  moral  character ;  but,  as  he  afterwards 
declared,  '  it  was  cruel  to  make  him  an  elder  at  all,  for  he  was 
not  a  Christian.'  What  moved  him  to  come  out  was  the  con- 
viction, which  he  felt  strongly,  that  the  God-fearing  people 
joined  the  Free  Church,  and  that,  therefore,  it  was  his  duty  and 
safety.  He  became  an  elder  of  the  newly-formed  congregation 
of  the  Free  Church,  over  which  a  young  minister  had  been 
ordained.  Some  months  after,  he  sent  in  a  letter  resigning  his 
office.  Without  accepting  it,  the  minister  was  requested  by 
*  Statement  by  the  Rev.  Mr.  Simpson,  of  Glenisla. 


764  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

the  session  to  confer  with  him.  The  elder  said  with  tears  :  '  The 
sermons  I  have  been  listening  to  of  late  have  shown  me  my 
utter  unfitness.  /  am  a  lost  sinner  ! '  He  was  for  weeks  in 
deep  distress  of  soul,  and  earnestly  seeking  the  Saviour.  At 
the  following  communion  season,  the  Lord  revealed  Himself  to 
his  soul  in  the  glory  of  His  love.  His  bonds  were  loosed.  He 
was  filled  with  peace  and  joy,  which  he  could  scarce  refrain  from 
giving  public  expression  to.  Ever  since,  he  has  consistently 
maintained  his  profession — a  lively  Christian  and  warm-hearted 
office-bearer.  '  I  will  bring  the  blind  by  a  way  that  they  knew 
not.' "  * 

Thus  it  was  all  through  the  conflict  and  turmoil  of  Disruption 
times.  God  was  giving  testimony  to  the  word  of  His  grace. 
Even  in  the  hottest  of  the  fight  the  sermons  and  addresses  were 
finding  their  way  to  the  hearts  of  the  people,  and  impressions 
were  made  and  results  obtained  for  which  many  a  hearer  will 
have  reason  to  bless  God  in  time  and  in  eternity. 

*  Disr.  Mss,  Ix.  p.  S. 


LONGING  DESIRES  FOR  REVIVAL. — MR.  GLEN  OF  BENHOLM.    765 


LXII.  Longing  Desires  for  Revival. — Mr.  Glen  of 
Benholm. 

During  the  years  which  followed  the  Disruption  there  pre- 
vailed generally  throughout  the  Free  Church  an  eager  desire 
for  such  a  revival  of  religion  as  had  been  seen  in  1839  at  Kil- 
syth and  Dundee.  "  In  temporal  things  God  has  prospered 
us,"  said  Mr.  Sym,  of  Greyfriars,  Edinburgh,  "beyond  our 
most  sanguine  expectations  ;  but  is  it  not  notorious  that  many 
of  the  more  devout  among  us  are  waiting  for  the  outpouring 
of  the  Divine  Spirit,  and  wearying  for  a  revival  of  pure  ana 
undefiled  religion  ? "  * 

At  Kirkbean  :  "The  office-bearers  and  members  are  like  a  band 
of  men  whose  hearts  the  Lord  has  touched.  Many  souls  are  under 
deep  concern.  The  Session  have  special  meetings  for  prayer 
for  the  outpouring  of  the  Spirit,  and  are  looking  out  for  a 
time  of  soul-refreshing  and  soul-reviving.  Lord,  when  shall 
it  be  ?     How  long,  0  Lord !     Send  the  breath  of  the  Spirit." 

If  the  secret  communings  of  many  a  manse  and  many  an 
elders'  meeting  could  be  opened,  it  would  be  seen  that  this  was 
the  object  for  which  men  laboured  and  prayed  to  an  extent  of 
which  the  public  were  little  aware. 

As  an  example  of  this,  we  shall  take  the  case  of  a  Kincardine- 
shire minister,  Mr,  Glen,  of  Benholm,  who  lived  and  died  in  the 
midst  of  his  people  comparatively  unknown.  A  regular  attendant 
at  Synod  and  Assembly,  he  never  let  his  voice  be  heard  in  their 
debates.  He  was  a  classical  scholar  of  cultivated  tastes — a 
faithful  preacher  of  no  common  gifts  ;  but,  above  all,  a  man 
whose  force  of  character  and  transparent  simplicity  and  godly 
sincerity  won  the  respect  of  all  classes  in  the  community — one 
•  Blue  Book,  1852,  p.  227. 


766  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

of  those  devout  and  devoted  men  who  are  the  true  strength  of 
any  Church.  The  manuscript  notes  which  he  has  left  behind 
will  enable  us  to  give  some  indication  of  the  earnestness  of  his 
desires.  It  may  be  well,  however,  in  the  first  instance,  briefly 
to  sketch  the  trials  through  which  he  passed.  It  was  no  easy 
thing  in  those  days  to  be  a  Free  Church  minister. 

After  the  meeting  of  Convocation  in  November,  184-2,  where 
he  gave  in  his  adherence  without  reserve,  it  was  necessary  to 
make  known  to  the  congregation  what  he  had  done.  "  The 
Lord  guide  me,"  he  says,  "  and  my  people  in  these  trying  times. 
May  I  not  be  rash  or  seK-confident.  Oh,  for  daily  supplies  of 
heavenly  grace  !" 

On  the  9  th  of  January,  the  Kirk-Session  met  in  the  Manse — 
all  the  ten  elders  being  present — to  consider  what  course  must 
be  taken  in  consequence  of  the  minister  having  signed  the 
Convocation  resolutions  binding  himself  to  leave  the  Establish- 
ment. After  prayer  for  light,  the  elders  were  left  by  themselves 
to  deliberate.  "  When  I  returned,  it  was  intimated  to  me  that 
the  Session  unanimously  and  strongly  approved  of  my  conduct, 
and  resolved  to  hold  by  my  ministry,  and  yet,  when  the  form 
of  concurrence  was  produced,  only  four  elders  found  themselves 
at  liberty  to  sign  it.  Another  has  agreed  this  day  [10th].  The 
result  of  this  meeting  is  somewhat  discouraging,  but  we  must 
lay  our  account  with  difficulties." 

The  next  step  was  an  appeal  to  the  people.  "  On  the  evening 
of  19th  February,  we  had  a  meeting  in  the  church  to  hear 
addresses  from  a  deputation  of  ministers  on  the  Church  ques- 
tion. The  evening  was  most  unfavourable — wet,  dark,  and 
stormy — and  yet  there  were  a  good  many  people  in  the  church. 
The  addresses  were  good.  Mr.  Lumsden,  of  Barry,  gave  a  short 
history  of  the  present  conflict,  and  the  gradual  encroachments 
of  the  civil  courts.  Mr.  "Wilson,  of  Carmylie,  took  a  Scriptural 
view  of  the  subject,  hinting  that  those  who  remained  in  the 
old  Establishment,  which  was  about  to  disclaim  the  headship  of 
Christ,  may  be  putting  themselves  in  a  position  in  which  they 
cannot  expect  the  blessing  of  God.  This  idea  he  brought  out 
very  strikingly,  drawing  his  illustration  from  John  xiv.  22,  23. 
We  got  more  adhercnccs  than  I  expected.     The  step  I  have  now 


LONGING  DESIRES  FOR  REVIVAL.— MR.  GLEN  OF  BENHOLM.     767 

taken  has  subjected  me  to  the  persecution  of  the  heritors  of 
this  parish.  I  pray  God  to  give  me  grace  to  bear  it  meekly 
without  returning  reviling  for  reviling,  but  contrariwise,  I 
would  ask  all  blessings  on  my  opponents." 

In  this  spirit  he  went  forward.  Men  have  admired  the 
courage  with  which  parish  ministers  in  the  country  gave  up 
their  all ;  but  little  did  the  public  know  at  what  cost — in  many 
cases — it  was  done.  As  the  crisis  approached,  there  was  a  dark 
cloud  hanging  over  the  Manse  of  Benholm.  When  the  elders 
held  that  meeting  in  the  manse  on  the  9th  of  January,  and 
Mr.  Glen  left  them  to  deliberate  on  their  course,  he  retired  to 
another  room  to  hang  in  trembling  anxiety  over  the  sick-bed  of 
a  beloved  child  lying  between  life  and  death.  Next  day  hopes 
of  recovery  revived.  "Our  little  boy  has  been  better,  and  our 
hearts  are  beginning  to  be  lightened."  The  following  week 
there  was  a  change  :  "  Alas,  the  clouds  have  returned  after  the 
rain."  The  illness  was  such  that  the  doctor  intimated  there 
was  no  hope,  and  "we  endeavoured  with  all  earnestness  to 
commend  our  little  one — our  boy — into  the  hands  of  God. 
This  was  a  very  solemn  transaction  when  we  went  to  prayer, 
the  poor  mother  having  her  apparently  dying  child  on  her 
knee.  This  was  my  birth-day  (21st  January)  ;  at  one  time  I 
thought  my  birth-day  might  have  been  the  dying  day  of  my 
son."  Again  there  was  a  brief  interval  of  reviving  strength 
but  on  the  26th  of  the  month  the  end  came.  We  saw  that  he 
was  fast  dying,  and  "  in  a  few  trembling  words  I  endeavoured 
to  commend  his  departing  spirit  into  the  hands  of  God.  His 
breathing  was  now  quick,  and  within  two  or  three  seconds  of 
the  time  I  ceased  to  speak  he  gently  fell  asleep  on  his  mother's 
knee."  Then  came  the  funeral — "  a  day  never  to  be  forgotten 
by  me,  in  which  I  laid  the  head  of  my  beloved  child  in  the  dust. 
Oh,  how  humbling — how  crushing  to  frail  humanity — a  mother's 
delight — a  father's  right  hand  taken  from  our  warm  embrace 
and  laid  in  the  cold  earth.  Oh,  how  could  nature  endure  the 
thought,  had  we  not  the  sure  hope  of  the  soul's  salvation  that 
while  the  dust,  according  to  the  Divine  decree,  has  returned  to 
its  kindred  element,  the  soul  redeemed  by  the  precious  blood  of 
Christ  has  gone  to  glory." 


768  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

If  we  have  dra^vn  aside  the  veil  from  these  scenes  of  domestic 
sorrow,  it  is  only  that  the  reader  may  know  what  the  trials 
were  which  had  to  be  endured,  and  how  at  the  very  time  when 
the  sacrifice  of  the  Disruption  must  be  made,  personal  grief 
added  bitterness  to  the  cup.  Mr.  Glen  could  not  flinch,  but  his 
feelino-s  were  naturally  keen,  and  it  was  no  wonder  that  the 
strain  told  on  his  health.  Pulpit  duty  began  to  press  heavily  : 
"  I  am  well,  aware  that  the  troubles  in  which  I  am  involved  are 
preying  upon  my  spirits  and  impairing  my  strength.  Oh  that 
the  Lord  would  show  me  the  path  of  duty,  give  me  a  clear 
conscience,  and  that  peace  in  Himself  which  the  world  cannot 
impart ! "  "  It  is  sometimes  painful  to  flesh  and  blood  to 
anticipate  a  speedy  separation  from  the  mass  of  my  people,  and 
even  to  leave  this  sweet  abode.  Lord,  give  direction  and 
support." 

Cahiily  in  the  midst  of  these  feelings  he  held  on  his  course, 
but  he  was  not  insensible  to  the  sacrifice :  "  Oh  that  I  were  duly 
impressed  with  the  solemn  circumstances  in  which  I  am 
placed ;  if  spared  likely  soon  to  be  stripped  of  all  my  earthly 
substance,  and  cast  on  the  bounties  of  God's  providence.  The 
Lord  has  wonderfully  provided  for  me  hitherto,  and  I  would 
humbly  trust  that  he  will  not  forsake  me.*  Oh  that  I  were 
enabled  to  act  with  greater  singleness  of  heart  on  the  present 
tryiug  occasion,  committing  my  way  to  God,  and  casting  my 
wife  and  children  on  His  care  ! " 

The  18th  of  May,  1843,  accordingly  found  him  in  his  place  at 
St.  Andrew's  Church  :  "  I  was  in  the  street  in  the  midst  of  the 
concourse  of  people,  and  never  can  I  forget  the  moment  when 
a  shout  from  the  crowd  announced  that  the  retiring  members 
were  making  their  appearance  without.     The  rending  asunder 

*  In  this  he  was  not  disappointed.  A  few  weeks  before  the  Disruption, 
while  he  was  yet  at  a  loss  for  accommodation,  the  farm-house  of  Ballandro 
was  vacated.  As  the  farmer,  Mr.  Webster,  resided  on  another  farm  in 
St.  Cyrus,  he  was  able  to  place  it  at  Mr.  Glen's  disposal,  and  there  he 
resided  for  seven  years  till  the  site  for  a  manse  was  got,  Mr.  Webster 
declining  to  receive  rent  except  for  the  first  year.  Mr.  Glen  once  stated 
to  the  writer  that  he  could  not  explain  how  it  was,  but  if  ever  he  wanted 
money  for  any  purpose,  it  seemed  somehow  to  come  more  readily  to  his 
hand  after  the  Disruption  than  it  used  to  do  before. 


LONGING  DESIRES  FOR  REVIVAL. — MR.  GLEN  OF  BENHOLM.    769 

of  the  Church  of  Scotland  was  a  truly  solemn  event,  but  it  has 
become  inevitable.  Mingled  feelings  of  sorrow  and  joy  struggled 
in  my  breast,  but  joy  I  think  predominated." 

On  Sabbath,  28th  May,  the  farewell  sermon  was  preached  in 
the  church  at  Benholm.  "  I  was  carried  through  to  the  last 
beyond  all  expectation  ;  but  after  the  blessing  was  pronounced 
I  was  a  good  deal  affected  while  the  people  were  retiring." 

On  the  following  Thursday  the  manse  was  left ;  and  as  we 
have  so  few  examples  of  these  scenes  in  the  Disruption  Mss., 
we  ask  attention  to  the  narrative: — "Our  family,  on  the  1st 
of  June,  removed  from  the  manse  to  the  farm-house  of  Bal- 
laudro.  In  some  respects  this  is  a  very  sad  event,  but  in  truth 
I  did  not  feel  it  as  such.  The  Lord  was  pleased  to  give  me 
such  assurance  that  I  was  in  the  path  of  duty  that  I  could 
take  part  in  preparing  '  stuff  for  removing,'  and  see  all  carried 
away  without  almost  any  emotion.  I  bless  the  Lord  for  His 
kindness  to  me  and  mine  on  this  memorable  day.  My  sister-in- 
law  and  our  two  little  girls  went  off  in  the  forenoon  in  one  of 
the  carts,  not  to  return  again  to  that  sweet  abode.  My  poor 
wife  and  myself  set  off  on  foot  before  one  o'clock,  having  seen 
all  carried  out  and  put  on  the  carts.  We  went  away  in  a 
solemn  frame  of  mind,  but  by  no  means  downcast.  The  Lord 
gave  my  wife  great  firmness,  and  she  shed  not  a  tear  till  she 
began  by  the  way  to  speak  of  the  grave  which  held  the  remains 
of  our  dear  little  boy.  His  dust  sleeps  there,  but  his  soul  is  in 
heaven, 

"  A  very  wet  afternoon,  but  people  were  kind  to  us,  and  we 
got  all  our  things  safely  under  roof ;  and  when  we  sat  down  to 
tea  amidst  trunks  and  boxes,  our  hearts  were  full  of  gratitude 
to  God  that  He  had  given  us  such  an  abode  in  existing  circum- 
stances. '  Bless  the  Lord,  0  my  soul,  and  forget  not  all  His 
benefits ! ' " 

Meantime  his  health,  never  robust,  began  to  feel  the  strain 
of  Disruption  trials,  and  the  work  that  was  needed  in  surround- 
ing parishes. 

One  Sabbath,  he  says:  "Very  feeble;  have  cause  to  wonder 
that  I  am  able  to  preach  at  all."  Another  time  :  "  Had  little 
strength  this  day.     I  sometimes  fear  that  my  vigour  is  so  im- 

3  D 


770  ANXALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

paired  that  it  may  never  be  restored  to  rae."  Again  :  "  Preached 
but  feebly  to-day  by  reason  of  bodily  infirmity.  Oh,  that  my 
inefficient  services  may  not  injure  the  cause  of  Christ  among 
my  people."  Once  again  :  "  Painful  feeling  in  my  head,  which 
often  greatly  unfits  me  for  public  duty.  This  is  indeed  at 
present  my  thorn  in  the  flesh." 

In  the  midst  of  these  feelings  there  was  another  cause  of 
anxiety  which  lay  heavy  on  his  heart — the  low  state  of  spiritual 
life,  as  he  considered  it,  in  the  parish,  and  the  fear  lest  his  own 
defects  and  shortcomings  might  be  to  blame.  Many  a  sentence 
in  these  notes  tells  of  the  sensitiveness  of  his  feelings  on  these 
points  and  the  severity  of  the  standard  by  which  he  judged 
himself. 

"  Weak  this  day.  Had  little  comfort,  and  I  fear  gave  little 
satisfaction. 

"  Had  but  little  power  this  day.  The  Lord  forgive  my  great 
unworthiness. 

"  Considerably  embarrassed  all  this  day.  Oh,  that  the  Lord 
would  pity  me,  for  I  am  weak." 

Bodily  weakness  was  thus  combined  to  some  extent  with 
mental  depression ;  but  all  through  those  records  it  is  striking 
to  observe  how  bravely,  under  a  sense  of  duty,  he  goes  on  doing 
his  work. 

The  opening  of  the  New  Free  Church  took  place  on  the  10th 
of  December,  1843,  and  is  noted  as  a  memorable  day  in  the 
parish  of  Benholm.  "  I  was  permitted  to  preach  in  the  fore- 
noon on  Gen.  xxviii.  17;  a  poor  sermon  as  written,  but  I  was 
enabled  to  add  some  useful  passages  in  delivering  it ;  and  I  do 
bless  the  Lord  for  the  gracious  support  given  me.  Mr.  Nixon 
of  Montrose,  preached  afternoon  and  evening,  both  able  and 
faithful  discourses.  He  baptised  our  little  Margaret  at  the 
former  diet.  Oh,  that  the  church  which  we  endeavoured  to 
consecrate  to  God  may  indeed  be  one  of  His  own  temples— 
a  Bethel,  a  house  of  God  !  Oh,  what  cause  of  thanksgiving  to 
God,  that  He  has  so  provided  for  a  handful  of  poor  people  in 
this  place  !     The  Lord's  name  be  praised  ! " 

Now  it  was  that  his  longings  for  the  revival  of  religion  began 
more  prominently  to  show  themselves.     The  awakening  of  reli- 


LONGING  DESIRES  FOR  REVIVAL. — MR.  GLEN  OF  BENHOLM.    771 

gious  life,  which  was  so  marked  in  various  districts  of  Scotland, 
had  stirred  up  in  the  minds  of  many  ministers  an  intense 
desire  that  "  the  shower  of  blessing  "  might  visit  their  own  part 
of  the  vineyard ;  and  we  give  Mr.  Glen's  experience  as  an 
example  of  what  was  really  a  very  widespread  feeling  in  the 
Free  Church  at  the  time. 

The  opening  of  the  church  was  followed  at  once,  on  Monday 
evening,  by  a  prayer  meeting,  which  he  addressed  from  Ps. 
Ixxxv.  6 :  "  Wilt  Thou  not  revive  us  again  ?"  "I  wish  to 
press  the  subject  of  a  revival  on  my  people.  The  Lord  revive 
His  work  in  my  own  soul !" 

Next  Sabbath  "  took  up  the  point  that  a  revival  of  religion 
is  needful.  I  bless  the  Lord  for  the  countenance  shown  me 
throughout  this  day." 

Again,  during  the  same  month,  he  returns  to  it,  preaching 
on  the  efficient  cavse  of  revivals :  "  Oh,  that  the  Lord  for  His 
own  glory  may  own  this  feeble  attempt  to  revive  His  work  in 
this  place  !  Were  my  own  piety  more  genuine  and  high-toned, 
I  have  cause  to  believe  that  my  influence  might  be  greater." 

From  this  time  forward  he  gives  a  long  course  of  sermons  on 
the  subject.  It  formed,  indeed,  the  great  theme  of  his  preaching 
during  the  year  which  followed,  as  he  went  on  expounding  and 
urging  home  his  views  with  all  the  earnestness  of  a  man  of  God 
who  looked  and  longed  for  the  blessing  from  on  high.  The 
spirit  which  prompted  these  appeals  comes  out  from  time  to 
time  as  the  series  goes  on.  "  Was  enabled  to  speak  with  con- 
siderable energy  from  Ps.  cxix.  93.  The  congregation  very 
large.  Oh,  that  I  truly  felt  the  solemnity  and  responsibility  of 
my  station  when  called  to  address  large  assemblages  of  my 
fellow-sinners  !  Oh,  that  the  Spirit  were  poured  out  to  touch 
the  hearts  of  many  ! " 

The  outward  success  of  the  congregation  pleases  but  does  not 
satisfy  him.  In  March  he  finds  there  has  been  an  addition  to 
the  number  of  communicants.  "  The  cause  of  the  Free  Church 
is,  therefore,  as  yet  gaining  ground  in  this  place,  and  I  do  bless 
God  for  so  much  encouragement.  Oh,  that  we  saw  still  more 
cheering  encouragement  in  the  true  conversion  of  many  souls!" 

To  such  longings,  however,  there  seemed  for  a  time  to  be 


772  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

little  response,  and  at  the  end  of  four  months  he  is  led  to  great 
searchings  of  heart.  "  To  all  appearance,  the  long  series  of 
sermons  on  revivals  has  been  productive  of  no  good.  There 
must  be  something  wrong  in  myself.  The  Lord  show  me  how 
I  may  be  more  useful,  if  it  is  His  holy  will  to  spare  me  a  little 
longer  for  His  service." 

Still  the  earnestness  does  not  relax,  and  signs  of  encourage- 
ment are  not  wholly  withheld. 

"  Not  very  well ;  speaking  with  some  difficulty.  I  leave  what 
was  said  in  the  hands  of  God.  A  very  large  audience  drawn 
together — I  know  not  for  what  cause.  I  trust  God  has  some 
gracious  end  in  view." 

"  Great  freedom  given  me  this  day.  Oh,  how  easy  it  is  to 
preach  when  God  is  pleased  to  give  gracious  support !" 

"  Greatly  assisted  this  evening,  and  wonderfully  upheld.  The 
audience  seemed  much  affected." 

After  his  return  from  the  Assembly  of  1844,  he  gave  some 
account  of  the  proceedings  connected  with  Dr.  Charles  Brown's 
sermon :  "  Some  little  excitement  among  the  people.  The 
Lord  increase  it  more  and  more." 

"Oh,  that  I  saw  more  fruit  of  my  labours ;  or,  rather,  oh,  that 
there  were  more  fruit  whether  I  see  it  or  not ! " 

Such  earnest  longings  on  the  part  of  a  good  and  faithful 
servant  are  none  the  less  impressive  because  he  was  called  to 
go  on  sowing  the  seed,  faithfully,  ably,  prayerfully  preaching 
the  Gospel  and  watching  for  souls,  but  destined  to  prove  the 
truth  of  the  saying  that  "  one  soweth  and  another  reapeth." 

These  notices  of  Mr.  Glen's  personal  experience  and  inner  life 
may  give  some  indication  of  the  religious  earnestness  which 
prevailed  in  Disruption  times.  Few,  indeed,  were  so  devout  as 
he.  Few  led  a  life  of  such  close  walking  with  God.  But 
generally  among  the  manses  of  the  Free  Church  there  was  no 
small  measure  of  the  same  state  of  mind.  It  was  a  season  of 
religious  awakening,  in  which  men  were  feeling  the  impulse  of 
quickened  spiritual  life,  and  all  over  the  Church  there  weie 
prayers  going  up  to  heaven,  and  longing  desires  cherished  that 
God  would  come  amidst  scenes  of  revival  to  "  refresh  His 
heritage  when  it  was  weary." 


REVIVAL.  77J 


LXIII.  Revival. 

The  Free  Church,  if  true  to  her  antecedents,  might  well 
cherish  those  longing  desires  to  which  we  have  referred.  She 
"  had  been  nursed,"  as  Dr.  Charles  Brown  once  reminded  the 
Assembly,  "  in  the  bosom  of  religious  revival."  It  was  in  1839, 
the  year  in  which  the  fatal  Auchterarder  decision  was  pro- 
nounced, that  William  Burns  preached  at  Kilsyth,  when  that 
great  spiritual  movement  began,  the  effects  of  which  were  felt 
all  over  Scotland  down  to  the  time  of  the  Disruption.  Even 
amidst  the  turmoil  and  struggle  of  184<3  the  impulse  was  not 
lost,  as  the  memorable  meeting  of  Assembly  in  1844  sufficiently 
proved.  During  the  years  that  followed,  amidst  the  earnest, 
evangelical  preaching  of  deputations  and  the  more  ordinary 
means  of  grace,  there  were  tokens  of  spiritual  blessing  in 
various  localities.  At  Ferryden,  for  example,  not  far  from 
Benholm,  on  the  same  line  of  coast.  Dr.  Brewster  was  permitted 
in  1846  to  see  among  the  fishermen  something  of  that  reUgious 
movement  which  Mr.  Glen  was  praying  for  and  longing  to  see 
among  the  people  of  Johnshaven.  "  I  spent  three  hours,"  says 
Dr.  A.  Bonar,  "speaking  with  anxious  souls  in  private,  and 
preached  to  them  twice.  The  scene  one  day  reminded  me  of 
Dundee  times.  They  were  so  easily  moved  to  tears  and  sobs, 
though  their  faces  were  those  of  hard  rough  fisher-women. 
There  are  about  thirty  very  deeply  convinced  of  sin,  and  many 
more  under  the  Spirit's  strivings.  Dr.  Brewster's  female  teacher 
has  been  remarkably  useful.* 

But  though  individual  cases  of  this  kind  were  met  with  here  and 
there  over  the  country,  it  was  not  till  a  later  period  that  the  move- 
ment assumed  such  proportions  as  to  arrest  general  attention. 

*  Letter  dated  18th  September,  1846  ;  Miss.  Becord,  1847,  p.  218 


774  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

A  great  religious  revival  had,  in  1859,  spread  over  the  north 
of  Ireland  ;  its  influence  was  felt  among  the  Scottish  Churches  ; 
the  Carrubber's  Close  Mission  was  begun  in  Edinburgh  ;  the 
whole  religious  state  of  Scotland  was  full  of  promise,  but  signs 
of  excitement. had  shown  themselves,  and  the  question  arose  as 
to  what  the  Free  Church  must  do.  Was  this  a  genuine  Revival  ? 
men  asked — was  the  hand  of  God  truly  in  it  ?  In  the  words  of 
Mr.  Nixon,. of  Montrose,  was  it  "a  God-given  or  a  man-made 
Revival "  ? 

As  time  went  on  these  doubts  were  removed.  The  Church 
was,  in  reality,  longing  and  eager  to  welcome  any  signs  of 
reviving  spiritual  life,  anything  betokening  the  approach  of  a 
season  of  refreshing  from  the  presence  of  the  Lord.  This  was 
the  reward  she  coveted  after  all  her  sacrifices  and  trials,  and  it 
soon  appeared  that  she  was  not  left  to  look  for  it  in  vain. 

It  was  during  the  year  1860  that  Scotland  generally  experi- 
enced the  power  of  a  decided  religious  awakening.  The  mining 
districts  and  fishing  villages  of  the  East  coast  were  the  first  to 
show  the  effects  of  the  movement,  which,  however,  soon  made 
its  presence  felt  in  the  towns  and  rural  parishes.  At  the 
following  Assembly  there  were  returns  from  more  than  160 
congregations,  reporting  either  a  decided  awakening  or  a  great 
increase  of  spiritual  earnestness  among  the  people.  "  I  never," 
said  Dr.  Roxburgh,  "was  more  solemnly  and  gratefully 
impressed  than  with  this  evidence  of  a  widespread,  genuine 
revival  of  religion  in  the  land."  And  year  after  year  the  work 
continued  to  advance. 

Erom  Dumfriesshire,  we  have  the  experience  of  Dr.  James 
Buchanan,  Professor  in  the  New  College,  who,  with  his  calm 
mind,  would  have  been  the  last  man  to  over-estimate  the  reality. 
"  A  venerable  ancestor  of  mine  attended  the  revival  at  Cambus- 
lang,  and  was  spared  to  the  ripe  age  of  ninety  years  ;  and  it  was 
from  his  venerable  lips,  and  most  exemplary  character,  that  I 
was  first  led  to  take  a  delight  in  the  writings  of  Owen,  Traill, 
and  Witherspoon,  which  were  his  daily  companions.  More 
recently,  I  have  been  privileged  to  witness  the  effects  of  the 
revival  in  the  country  district  in  which  I  reside  in  summer.  Eor 
the  last  seventeen  years,  during  which  I  have  had  the  summer 


REVIVAL.  775 

at  my  own  disposal,  I  have  been  in  the  habit  of  preaching 
regularly,  on  the  Lord's  day  evening,  in  the  open  air  in  Dum- 
friesshire. During  the  whole  of  that  time  I  have  had  the 
attendance  of  members  of  all  religious  denominations — Episco- 
palians, United  Presbyterians,  Established  Church  people — who 
would  not  come  to  any  Free  Church,  but  came  to  my  tent. 
During  these  seventeen  years,  I  had  no  evidence,  though  I  had 
no  doubt  that  the  good  seed  sown  was  not  thro^vn  altogether 
away ;  but  I  could  not  put  my  hand  upon  a  single  case  of 
decided  conversion.  Last  year,  suddenly,  and  without  appar- 
ently any  human  instrumentality  to  account  for  it,  the  whole 
district  was  visited  with  an  outpouring  of  the  Spirit  of  God. 
Now,  in  my  immediate  neighbourhood,  I  can  point  to  many 
households  where,  for  the  first  time,  family  worship  has  been 
established  and  is  now  regularly  maintained.  The  whole  morals 
of  the  district  seem  to  have  undergone  a  complete  change; 
and,  as  the  police  expressed  it  to  me,  their  office  was,  so  far 
as  serious  crimes  were  concerned,  all  but  a  sinecure.  Some  of 
those  who  came  under  religious  impressions  at  that  time  may 
possibly  have  gone  back,  and  therefore  it  would  not  be  right  in 
us  to  report  all  these  cases  of  transient  awakening  as  if  they 
were  cases  of  true  conversion  to  God.  We  must  judge  of  them 
by  their  subsequent  fruits ;  but,  at  the  same  time,  I  know 
intemperance  and  profligacy  of  all  kinds  have  been  checked, 
and  that  the  minds  of  the  whole  community  have  become 
impressed  and  awed  by  a  sense  of  Divine  things."* 

At  Carnwath,  Dr.  Walker  mentions  a  fellowship  meeting 
which  had  been  held  in  the  village  of  Quothquan  for  thirty  or 
forty  years,  and  to  which  the  year  1860  brought  a  great 
quickening  of  spiritual  life,  the  effects  of  which  were  felt 
over  the  neighbouring  districts  of  Peeblesshire  and  Lanark- 
shire. He  records  various  striking  cases  of  conversion.^ 
among  which  the  experience  of  one  woman  is  especially 
mentioned, — "Though  there  was  no  physical  prostration,  it 
might  be  truly  said  that  she  had  been  stricken.  For  several 
days  there  was  scarcely  a  ray  of  hope.      The  minister  of  the 

*  Blue  Book,  1862,  p.  184. 
t  Becord,  July,  18G0,  p.  288. 


776  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

church  with  which  the  sufferer  was  connected  was  sent  for. 
He  warned  her  against  going  to  the  "  prayer  meetings ; "  but 
she  declined  to  promise.  He  spoke  of  her  being  brought  to  the 
asylum.  "  If  God  brings  me  to  the  asylum,"  she  replied,  "  I 
hope  He  will  save  my  souL"  Through  weeks  of  agony  she  bore 
on — her  eye  still  in  the  one  direction — her  thoughts  and  long- 
ings still  Christwards — willing  to  suffer  anything  rather  than  go 
back — recognising  in  what  had  come  upon  her  God's  great 
mercy.  No  great  joy  had  yet  been  found ;  but  some  degree  of 
calm — of  hope  in  Christ.  Through  the  secluded  country  parishes 
which  had  been  chiefly  acted  on  by  the  Quothquan  awakening, 
he  knew  of  from  forty  to  fifty  persons  who  had  professed  either 
to  have  given  themselves  to  the  Saviour,  or  to  be  earnestly  seek- 
ing Him.  An  interesting  class  of  these  consisted  of  the  young 
farm  lads — youths  perhaps  thirteen,  fourteen,  fifteen,  and  sixteen 
years  of  age."  * 

In  Fife,  Mr.  Taylor,  of  Flisk,  states:  " In  1860-61,  the  years 
of  revival,  I  could  count  up  about  eighteen  in  one  little  congre- 
gation as  sharing  in  the  benefits  of  that  awakening.  Persons 
that  had  kicked  against  faithful  and  tender  dealing,  have  sub- 
mitted themselves ;  stillness,  and  reverence,  and  expectancy 
characterise  our  Sabbath  meetings.  As  it  is  my  daily  prayer,  so  it 
is  my  hope  that  the  Lord  is  doing  us  good  in  His  good  pleasure."f 

Kilsyth  was  once  more  the  scene  of  religious  awakening. 
"For  three  months,"  Mr.  Black  states,  "the  meetings  continued. 
There  was  no  excitement,  certainly  nothing  approaching  to 
extravagance.  At  our  communion  in  November,  between  fifty 
and  sixty  were  admitted  to  the  Lord's  Table — nearly  every  one 
of  whom  professed  to  have  been  brought  out  of  darkness  into 
light.  They  were  of  all  ages,  from  seventeen  to  fifty  or  sixty. 
The  tone  of  piety  was  raised  among  the  professedly  religious. 
The  whole  aspect  of  the  place  was  changed,  the  decency  and 
decorum  of  the  streets  presenting  a  very  pleasing  contrast  to 
the  former  state  of  things." 

At  Deskf ord  there  was  a  remarkable  movement.  "  A  special 
work  of  the  Lord  has  been  going  on  in  this  congregation  for 

*  Missionary  Record,  1860,  p.  288. 
t  Disr.  Mss.  xxxvii.^  p,  19. 


REVIVAL.  777 

upwards  of  seven  months.  A  very  striking  case  of  conversion 
occurring  more  than  two  years  ago,  exercised  a  great  influence 
in  preparing  for  it,  and  gave  confidence  in  the  reality  of  the 
change  wi'ought  by  the  effectual  application  of  the  truth  to  the 
heart.  The  Lord's  own  hand  has  been  recognised  throughout 
the  whole  progress  of  the  work,  no  special  importance  being 
attached  to  any  particular  instrumentalities.  There  has  been 
great  variety  in  the  mode  of  the  Spirit's  operation,  bringing  out 
very  strongly  the  truth  that  a  human  judgment  on  this  subject 
can  be  rightly  formed  only  upon  a  careful  observation  of  actual 
facts.  In  by  far  the  majority  of  cases,  the  change  produced  was 
marked  by  nothing  beyond  the  natural  effect  of  the  application 
of  the  truth  of  God,  by  the  Spirit  of  life  gradually  and  most 
surely  leading  the  burdened  soul  to  find  peace  and  rest  in 
Christ.  In  a  few,  the  details  of  which  are  sufficiently  striking, 
the  immediate  presence  of  God  was  more  vividly  realised,  and 
in  a  manner  fitted  to  produce  the  most  powerful  impression  on 
others.  In  all  these,  it  was  made  very  evident  wliat  was  the 
purpose  which  this  was  designed  to  serve.  The  circumstances 
in  which  they  occurred  entirely  precluded  the  idea  of  human 
agency  or  mere  human  emotion."  * 

One  more  example  we  take  from  a  rural  parish  in  Forfar- 
shire. In  the  spring  of  1868,  signs  of  awakening  showed 
themselves  among  the  people,  who,  of  their  own  accord,  made 
their  state  of  mind  known  to  the  minister.  It  was  not  till  the 
end  of  autumn,  however,  that  meetings  were  held,  but  at  once 
a  deep  impression  was  made — men,  women,  and  cliildren,  all 
sharing  the  blessing.  At  the  close  of  one  of  the  sermons  in 
the  month  of  February,  all  those  were  asked  to  remain  behind 
who  had  derived  benefit  from  the  work,  wlien  from  120  to  130 
did  so  i  but  these,  it  was  believed,  did  not  amount  to  half  of 
those  who  had  been  really  awakened.  The  blessing  descended 
manifestly  on  some  of  the  farms  in  the  neighbourhood.-!-  On 
one  large  farm  there  was  scarcely  a  family  which  had  not  beeji 
moved,  besides  two  or  three  of  theyoung  ploughmen  in  the  bothy. 

One  remarkable  circumstance  was  the  prominent  position 

*  Missionary  Becord,  1860,  p.  288. 

t  Rep.  on  Rel.  and  Mor.,  App.  1869,  pp.  1,  2. 


778  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

taken  in  these  revival  movements  by  laymen,  some  of  whom 
did  not  belonor  to  the  Free  Church,  but  whose  aid  was  none  the 
less  cordially  welcomed.  Perhaps  the  most  distinguished  of 
these  lay  preachers  was  Mr.  Brownlow  North,  an  Episcopalian, 
the  son  of  a  rector,  the  grandson  of  an  English  bishop.  After 
passing  through  the  great  spiritual  change,  he  took  up  the 
doctrines  of  the  Christian  faith  according  to  the  Calvinistic 
view,  preaching  a  free  gospel,  and  setting  forth  the  message  of 
salvation  with  a  freshness  and  power  which  has  not  often  been 
equalled.  Though  a  decided  Episcopalian,  yet  he  had  such  a 
fellow-feeling  with  the  Eree  Church,  and  co-operated  so  cordially 
with  many  of  her  ministers,  that  it  was  proposed  to  give  him 
some  recognised  position  as  an  evangelist.  The  matter  was 
brought  before  the  Assembly  ;  a  committee  was  appointed, 
including  some  of  the  most  strict  adherents  of  orthodoxy,  and, 
after  full  conference  with  Mr.  North,  there  was  a  unanimous 
decision  in  favour  of  the  proposal.  His  doctrinal  views  were 
so  entirely  in  accordance  with  those  of  our  Church,  and  his 
gifts  and  graces  had  been  found  to  be  so  singularly  fitted  for 
impressing  the  minds  of  men,  that  Episcopalian  though  he 
was,  all  parties  agreed  to  recognise  him  as  a  fellow-labourer 
whose  services  were  to  be  welcomed  by  the  ministers  of  the 
Free  Church.  Dr.  Cunningham  was  Moderator  of  Assembly 
and  most  cordially  gave  Mr.  North  the  right  hand  of  fellowship. 
Kevival  work  was  all  the  more  welcome  that  it  was  felt  to  be  a 
platform  on  which  earnest  men  of  all  denominations  could  meet 
and  co-operate. 

While  the  rural  districts  of  Scotland  were  thus,  as  we  have 
seen,  largely  sharing  in  the  blessing,  the  same  results  to  a  great 
extent  were  met  with  in  towns,  and  especially  among  the  newly 
formed  territorial  charges.  Thus  at  the  West  Port,  Mr.  Tasker 
writes :  "  At  this  moment  I  have  nearly  sixty  candidates  for 
communion,  two-thirds  of  whom  date  their  serious  impres- 
sions within  the  last  three  months.  At  present  we  have  at 
least  sixty  persons  who  hold  district  prayer  meetings  in  almost 
every  close  of  the  West  Port."  * 

At  the  Pleasance,  Mr.  Cochrane  reports:  "  The  year  1860  will 
*  Blue  Book,  1861,  p.  98. 


REVIVAL.  779 

be  ever  memorable  in  the  history  of  this  congregation.  Since 
last  Assembly  the  increase  in  the  membership  is  203.*  At  the 
close  of  the  usual  weekly  services  on  some  occasions  four,  five, 
six,  and  upwards,  have  remained  in  deep  concern  to  speak 
about  the  state  of  their  soul.  Meetings  for  prayer  liave  been 
held  by  the  people  themselves,  while  not  a  few  of  the  awakened 
and  hopefully  converted  have  taken  part  in  these  along  with  the 
minister  and  others.  Were  the  question  put,  Who  have  been 
most  instrumental  in  building  up  and  adding  members  to  the 
congregation  ?  the  reply  would  be.  The  people  themselves. 

So  also  in  Glasgow,  Mr.  Howie  at  the  Wynd  Church  reported 
that  since  the  New  Year  the  number  of  those  impressed  at  their 
meetings  and  Sabbath  services  had  been  very  great,  and  the 
increase  had  been  due  to  a  remarkable  outpouring  of  the  Holy 
Spirit.  Of  those  added  to  the  congregation  about  eighty  were 
communicants  for  the  first  time,  and  with  only  one  or  two 
exceptions  were  able  to  give  a  clear,  intelligent,  and  satisfactory 
account  of  their  conversion.  The  moral  and  spiritual  change 
wrought  in  many  of  them  was  so  marked  as  to  astonish  and 
confound  those  who  were  most  sceptical.-f- 

At  Finnieston,  Dr.  A.  Bonar  states :  "  The  population  of  the 
district  is  about  4000,  and  we  are  able  to  point  to  dwellings  in 
every  part  of  it  in  which  some  soul  has  been  born  again,  so  far 
as  man  can  judge.  In  the  two  streets  nearest  our  church  we 
know  of  fifty  persons  at  least,  regarding  whom  there  is  reason 
to  believe  that  they  have  passed  from  death  to  life  during  the 
last  three  years.  Last  summer  it  was  the  Bible  lesson  in  the 
day  school  that  seemed  to  be  specially  owned  of  God  to  the  con- 
version of  six  or  seven,  and  to  the  awaking  of  many  more.  One 
marked  case  of  conversion  resulted  from  discipline  in  the 
session.  Some  cases  of  apparent  and  satisfactory  awaking  have 
occurred  in  connection  with  the  visits  of  elders.j 

But  gratifying  as  all  this  was,  no  cases  were  more  remarkable 
than  those  in  the  fishing  villages. 

Mr.  Davidson  of  Latheron  was,  as  we  have  seen,  a  devoted 

*  Blue  Book,  1861,  p.  98. 
t  Ibid.,  1861,  p.  101. 
t  Ibid.,  1861  V.  100. 


780  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

labourer  in  his  Master's  service,  and  it  is  gratifying  to  find  the 
last  days  of  his  ministry  brightened  by  scenes  of  revival  The 
accounts  of  the  Irish  movement  in  1859  had  awakened  among 
his  people  "  a  feeling  of  solemnity  and  expectation."  There 
were  prayer  meetings  thrice  a- week  in  the  schoolroom,  which  held 
200,  but  soon  they  were  compelled  to  seek  larger  accommodation 
in  the  Church.  The  people  were  thirsting  for  the  Word.  It  was 
a  pleasure  to  preach  on  Sabbath,  and  the  attendance  at  the 
prayer  meetings  increased  to  an  average  of  400. 

"  It  was  now  the  beginning  of  February,  at  which  season 
several  boats'  crews  from  the  opposite  coasts  of  Moray  and  Banfi" 
are  in  the  habit  of  annually  taking  up  their  residence  here,  in 
order  to  prosecute  the  white  fishing  during  the  spring.  As  it 
was  weU  known  that  the  revival  had  been  very  marked  and  very 
extensive  over  that  district  of  country,  much  anxiety  prevailed, 
and  many  inquiries  were  made  on  their  arrival  here.  Never 
were  the  habits  of  men  more  changed.  Formerly  they  were 
as  a  class  utterly  regardless  of  religious  duties,  while  drinking 
and  profane  swearing  were  common.  Now  they  seemed  new  men 
as  different  from  their  former  selves  as  can  well  be  conceived ; 
for  not  only  did  they  abstain  from  desecrating  the  Sabbath,  or 
entering  a  public-house,  or  uttering  an  oath,  but  they  seemed 
to  "  call  the  Sabbath  a  delight,"  and  to  abound  in  religious  duties 
on  all  days  of  the  week,  when  not  at  sea.  These  crews  landed 
on  difierent  parts  of  our  coast,  and  the  report  of  their  altered 
habits  greatly  strengthened  the  impressions  already  existing  as 
to  the  reality  of  the  work.  By-and-by  they  found  their  way  to 
our  meetings,  and  took  part  in  them.  Hitherto  there  had  been 
no  violent  demonstrations,  though  a  good  deal  of  subdued  feel- 
ing was  manifested  by  tears  and  sighs,  but  soon  several  became 
so  aflected  as  to  relieve  their  pent  feelings  in  loud  cries  and 
fervent  prayers  for  mercy  and  pardon,  and  this  too  from  night 
to  night,  for  now  the  meetings  had  become  nightly,  and  often 
continued  till  morning.  Many  of  both  sexes  were  wont  to  stand 
up  in  rapid  succession  as  if  under  an  irresistible  impulse,  and  to 
utter  the  most  earnest  and  fervent  supplications,  both  for  them- 
selves and  others,  so  that  it  was  with  difficulty  that  order  could 
be  maintained.   This  violent  agitation,  however,  only  lasted  for  a 


REVIVAL.  781 

few  nights,  during  which  there  were  some  cases  of  prostration  and 
fainting.  Afterwards,  matters  assumed  a  more  quiet  and  edifying 
appearance,  and  the  work  went  on  cahnly  and  agreeably. 
Some  of  these  strangers  were  judicious  men,  but  others  of 
them  were  boisterous,  and  evidently  spoke  for  effect.  This 
required  to  be  checked,  but  it  was  wonderful  how  little  of  this 
appeared  among  men  formerly  unaccustomed  to  take  part  in 
religious  exercises  of  any  kind. 

"The  efifect  produced  by  this  state  of  matters,  riot  only  on 
those  who  professed  to  have  come  under  the  power  of  the  truth, 
but  also  on  the  population  generally,  was  very  great.  As  to  the 
former,  they  never  wearied  of  spiritual  duties.  It  became  their 
meat  and  their  drink  to  be  so  engaged.  The  Bible  was  seldom 
out  of  their  hands  at  every  spare  hour.  The  attainment  of 
Scriptural  knowledge  seemed  to  be  their  great  delight,  and 
prayer  and  praise  their  element.  They  prized  fellowship  with 
one  another,  and  frequent  conference  with  all  who  were  willing 
and  able  to  counsel  and  direct  them  in  the  path  of  duty.  Their 
whole  manner  and  conduct  much  resembled  those  of  old,  when 
'  men  took  knowledge  of  them  that  they  had  been  with 
Jesus.'"* 

Still  more  striking  was  the  case  of  Ferryden,  near  Montrose, 
in  which  Mr.  Nixon  took  the  deepest  interest,  and  of  which  we 
have  a  valuable  account  from  his  pen.  Speaking  of  the  results 
among  the  people,  he  says : — 

"  No  one  that  comes  in  contact  with  them  can  fail  to  be 
struck  by  the  general  consistent  seriousness  of  their  deportment. 
Visit  them  in  their  houses,  talk  with  them  as  they  are  working 
inside  or  outside  of  their  dwellings  at  their  lines,  exchange  a  few 
words  with  them  as  you  meet  them  on  the  way,  or  overhear  their 
conversation  as  in  twos  and  threes  you  at  any  time  find  them 
conversing  with  each  other,  and  the  likelihood  is  that,  in  nine 
instances  out  of  ten,  you  will  find  their  attention  taken  up  with  the 
Word  of  God,  with  the  work  of  Christ,  with  the  realities  of  faith 
and  of  eternity.  There  has  been  in  fact  a  solemnity  in  the 
midst  of  that  people  for  months  that  renders  every  day  in  the 
midst  of  them  like  a  Sabbath-day,  and  causes  you  to  feel  the 
*  Life  of  Rev.  G.  Davidson,  pp.  173-75. 


782  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

intrusion  of  the  ordinary  conversation  current  in  the  world  to 
be  offensive  trifling. 

"  Have  the  people,  then,  been  generally  converted  to  God  ?  I 
am  far  enough  from  meaning  to  afiirm  anything  like  that.  In 
an  orchard  iu  spring  you  may  see  a  wonderful  display  of 
beautiful  blossoms.  But  by-and-by  many  of  them  are  blighted 
and  perish ;  and  it  is  only  a  moderate  proportion  of  them 
that  ripen  into  full-grown  healthy  fruit.  So  has  it  generally 
been  in  regard  to  any  wide  awakening  in  any  part  of  the 
Church.  So  may  it  turn  out  even  in  regard  to  this  corner 
of  the  vineyard.  Yet  in  Ferryden  the  work  of  the  Lord  has 
been  comparatively  a  work  of  singular  extensiveness  and  power. 
One  excellent  judge  declared  that  he  had  seen  nothing  more 
decided  in  Ireland  lately  or  formerly  in  Kilsyth.  Upwards 
of  one  hundred  applicants  were  admitted  in  December,  for  the 
first  time,  to  the  communion — a  large  proportion  of  whom 
professed  and  appeared  to  have  come,  in  a  greater  or  less  degree, 
into  the  light  and  liberty  of  the  Gospel.  Not  a  few  who  were 
regular  in  attendance  on  Church  ordinances  for  years,  have  come 
to  feel  that  they  were  mere  formalists,  and  profess  to  be  now 
quickened  from  their  state  of  death  in  trespasses  and  sins. 
Some  believers  of  other  years  have  been  baptised  anew  by  the 
Spirit  of  God,  and  visited  with  a  blessing  which  they  felt  as  if 
they  had  not  room  enough  to  receive.  The  elders,  and  other 
intelligent  Christian  men  of  the  village,  after  examining  into 
the  matter  as  well  as  they  could,  told  me  some  time  ago  that 
probably  there  were  two  hundred  or  more,  giving  something 
like  evidence  that  they  had  lately  come  under  the  power  of 
saving  grace  ;  an  opinion  which  was  modestly  given,  and  which 
of  course  remains  to  be  tested  by  time  and  experience."* 

As  to  the  work  itself  he  states :  "If,  however,  one  thing  has 

been  more  remarkably  characteristic  of  the  work  than  another, 

it  has  been  the  little  that  man  has  had  to  do  with  it.     The  hand 

of  man  has  scarcely  been  seen  in  it.     The  Lord  has  signally 

taken  and  kept  the  work  in  His  own  hands ;  and  the  folly  of 

attempting  to  confine  the  Spirit  of  God  to  this  or  that  man,  or 

*  Account  of  the  work  of  God  at  Ferryden.     By  Rev.  N.  Nixon.  1860, 
pp.  12-16. 


REVIVAL.  783 

to  any  half-dozen  of  men,  has  been  emphatically  rebuked,  in 
this  instance  by  the  sovereign  way  in  which  the  Lord  has  done 
His  great  and  gracious  work  without  much  direct  and  ascer- 
tainable use  of  any  specially  extolled,  or  any  other  human 
instrumentality  whatsoever. 

"There  were  two  remarkable  weeks  in  the  history  of  this 
work  of  the  Lord  at  Ferryden — the  first  from  Monday  7th  to 
Saturday  12th  of  last  November ;  the  second  .from  Saturday 
the  12th  to  Sabbath  20th  November  [1859].  The  first  of  these 
weeks  was  one  of  deep  widespread  conviction  of  sin  and  misery, 
during  which  they  were  in  their  restlessness,  constantly  going 
into  each  others'  houses,  speaking  of  their  burdened  and  intoler- 
able state,  declaring  that  they  could  not  live  if  they  did  not  get 
Christ,  and  salvation  in  Him ;  and  by  all  this  incessant  inter- 
course and  outspokenness,  exciting  a  deeper  sense  of  sin  anf^ 
misery  in  each  others'  hearts,  till,  toward  the  end  of  that  first 
week,  they  reached  such  a  state  of  general  excitement,  as  to  be 
ready,  on  the  first  occasion  of  any  gathering,  for  an  unrestrain- 
able  outbreak. 

"  Such  an  outbreak  accordingly  took  place  in  the  church  on 
Saturday  evening,  without  anything  to  excite  it  in  what  was 
being  said  by  the  excellent  and  earnest  layman  from  the  North, 
who  was  then  addressing  them.  And  then,  on  the  Sabbath, 
and  at  some  subsequent  meetings,  this  effervescence  of  their 
wrought-up  feelings  gradually  spent  itself.  These  and  some 
other  outward  and  physical  manifestations,  were,  however,  mere 
accidents  of  the  work,  not  essentials  of  it.  The  Lord  was 
graciously  pleased  to  deliver  and  preserve  the  susceptible 
people,  to  a  great  extent,  from  confounding  these  accessories 
with  the  substance  of  the  work,  and  to  direct  their  minds  to 
the  true  nature  of  that  great  salvation  which  they  needed 
and  were  led  to  seek  for  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  And 
therefore,  though  in  the  crisis  of  their  overwhelming  excitement, 
some  were  shaken,  and  even  prostrated,  yet  in  the  great 
majority  of  cases  there  was  happily  little  or  nothing  at  all  of 
this  bodily  prostration  in  those  who  passed  from  death  to  life. 

"  Such  a  transition  was  apparently  accomplished  in  not  a 
few  during  the  week  beginning  with  Saturday  the  12th,  and 


784  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

onward  to  Sabbath,  the  20th  November.  This  was  a  week  of 
deliverance,  as  the  other  had  been  one  of  conviction.  One 
young  married  woman,  who  had  been  at  no  meetings,  and,  as 
she  said,  sought  and  found  the  Lord  in  her  own  house,  was  to 
appearance  savingly  converted  shortly  after  midnight  on  Satur- 
day morning,  the  12th.  And  as  her  case  shows,  the  report 
of  her  having  got  as  it  were  the  start  of  the  burdened 
sinners  around  her,  brought  them  in  crowds  to  her  house 
during  the  Saturday  from  an  early  hour,  and  caused  them 
to  feel  greatly  increased  distress,  as  they  gazed  on  her  emanci- 
pated state,  and  contrasted  it  with  their  own  continued  and 
terrible  bondage.  She  was  thus  the  most  powerful  of  all  the 
sermons  they  heard.  And,  indeed,  if  one  instrumentality 
rather  than  another  is  to  be  condescended  on,  it  seems  to  me 
that  then,  and  at  all  stages  of  the  work,  the  converse  which 
they  held  with  each  other,  anent  their  sorrows  and  their  joys, 
was  among  the  most  easily  recognised  means  by  which  the 
Lord  carried  on  His  work  of  grace  in  the  midst  of  them.  The 
second  week  having  so  auspiciously  begun  by  the  conversion 
already  mentioned,  at  every  successive  hour  of  it,  ministering 
angels  seem  to  have  got  fresh  messages  to  carry  to  the  courts 
above,  concerning  the  repentance  of  another  and  another 
sinner  which  fills  all  heaven  with  gladness.  And  ere  that 
second  week  had  passed,  many  a  heart  that  had  been  bursting 
with  its  sorrow,  was  breaking  out  in  songs  of  rapturous  joy." 

While  these  things  were  going  on  in  town  and  country,  the 
ministers  of  the  Free  Church  felt  it  to  be  their  duty  to  throw 
themselves  heart  and  soul  into  the  work,  seeking  to  guard  it 
from  evil,  and  prayerfully  to  carry  out  those  great  ends  for 
which  it  had  been  given.  Many  a  grateful  testimony  is  borne 
to  the  happy  results  which  remained  after  the  first  fervour  had 
passed  away,  how  family  worship  was  observed,  prayer  meetings 
multiplied,  church  attendance  increased,  and  the  whole  tone  of 
rehgious  life  was  elevated. 

One  of  the  most  gratifying  circumstances  has  been  the 
stability  and  permanence  of  the  work  in  many  of  the  congrega- 
tions. Mr.  Bain,  of  Chapel  Garioch  *  mentions  that  when  the 
*  Blue  Book,  1865,  p.  18. 


REVIVAL.  785 

revival  took  place,  they  had  seventy  new  communicants  added 
to  the  congregation,  and  speaking  at  the  distance  of  five  years, 
he  is  able  to  say  that  there  had  been  very  little  going  back 
among  them.  At  a  recent  election  of  elders,  they  required 
seven,  and  five  of  those  chosen  had  been  the  subjects  of  the 
revival  movement.  Subsequently  they  had  an  election  of  deacons, 
and  of  the  eleven  elected  seven  were  subjects  of  the  revival. 
Others  had  become  Sabbath-school  teachers,  and  some  young- 
men  were  studying  for  the  ministry.  A  number  of  persons  had 
been  reclaimed  from  drunkenness.  One  of  the  fruits  of  the 
revival  was  that  "  the  young  men  had  undertaken  the  support 
of  a  native  catechist  in  China,  and  the  young  women  the  educa- 
tion of  a  girl  in  India,"  In  very  many  districts  it  is  believed 
that  similar  experience  has  been  met  with.  Among  the 
Sabbath-school  teachers  and  office-bearers  in  many  a  congrega- 
tion, there  is  a  large  proportion  of  the  most  zealous  workers 
who  received  their  first  saving  impression  of  Divine  truth  at 
the  time  of  that  memorable  revival,  and  who  have  steadfastly 
held  on  their  course. 

The  facts  thus  far  stated  will  give  some  indication  of  the 
religious  state  of  Scotland  at  the  time,  but  they  must  be  taken 
as  mere  examples  of  what  was  taking  place  in  many  localities, 
too  numerous  to  mention.  In  the  Assembly  of  18G0  a  whole 
day  was  given  up  to  the  consideration  of  such  details,  and  the 
more  the  subject  was  inquired  into,  it  was  found  there  was  the 
more  to  tell.  Summing  up  the  result,  Dr.  Buchanan  stated 
from  the  Moderator's  chair:  "Time  absolutely  failed  for  recounting 
the  Lord's  wonderful  dealings  in  almost  every  part  of  the  land. 
We  had  thought,  many  of  us,  that  the  whole  extent  of  the 
present  religious  awaking  was  already  generally  known.  But 
how  striking,  and  how  delightful,  was  it  to  find  that  the  half 
had  not  been  told.  In  the  course  of  that  long  and  most 
refreshing  day  that  was  occupied  with  this  blessed  subject,  as 
one  brother  after  another  rose  to  address  the  House,*  the  fact 
became  increasingly  manifest  that  in  countless  districts  of  which 
no  public  mention  had  ever  been  previously  made,  the  Spirit 
from  on  high  had  been  dropping  as  the  rain  and  distilling  as 

*  Blue  Book,  Ix.  pp.  271,  272. 

3  E 


786  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

the  dew,  to  refresh  God's  weary  heritage  and  revive  His  work 
in  the  midst  of  the  years.  From  East  Lothian  to  the  Outer 
Hebrides,  from  the  shores  of  the  Moray  Firth  to  those  of  the 
Solway,  and  all  through  the  great  mining  and  manufacturing 
districts  of  the  kingdom,  we  heard  of  scenes  which  carried  us 
back  to  the  days  of  the  Lord's  wonderful  doings  at  Shotts, 
Stewarton,  and  Cambuslang."  And  very  gratefully  and  joyfully 
were  such  tidings  welcomed.  At  a  great  price  the  Free  Church 
had  sought  to  be  found  faithful  in  bearing  her  testimony  for 
Christ,  and  the  desire  which  above  all  else  she  cherished  was  to 
receive  some  token  of  His  favour  in  the  revival  of  her  spiritual 
life.  Many  prayers  had  been  offered,  and  when  the  blessing  was 
actually  bestowed,  and  sinners  were  turned  to  the  Lord,  and 
congregations  were  revived  and  quickened,  men  might  well  have 
their  hearts  filled  with  gratitude  and  their  lips  with  praise. 
The  Lord  had  done  great  things  for  us,  whereof  we  were  glad. 


FINAL.  787 


LXIV.  Final. 

In  closing  these  Annals,  we  can  now  look  back  on  the  Disruption 
at  the  distance  of  forty  years,  and  estimate  in  some  measure  its 
abiding  influence  in  the  Church  and  on  the  world.  Our  first 
impulse  is  to  linger  over  the  memories  of  the  great  leaders  who 
wielded  such  influence  among  their  brethren — men  gifted  with 
powers  of  intellect  and  eloquence  which  fitted  them  to  guide 
the  Church  through  her  days  of  trial,  when  scenes  were  wit- 
nessed and  deeds  were  done  which  can  never  be  forgotten. 
There  was  Dr.  Chalmers,  standing  out  before  all  others  a  true 
"king  of  men;"  and  Dr,  Candlish,  with  his  brilliant  intellect 
and  fascinating  powers  of  speech  ;  and  Dr.  Cunningham,  strono- 
in  the  manly  force  of  his  overpowering  logic ;  and  Dr.  Robert 
Buchanan,  with  his  sagacious  counsels  and  polished  eloquence ; 
and  Alexander  Dunlop,  distinguished  for  his  mastery  of  consti- 
tutional law  and  high-minded  chivalry ;  and  a  host  of  others — 
a  long  list  of  those  who  stood  high  in  the  view  of  the  Church 
and  the  country.  Sometimes  it  seems  as  if  it  were  but  yester- 
day that  they  were  moving  and  acting  in  the  midst  of  us  with 
all  their  commanding  influence :  "  But  our  fathers,  where  are 
they,  and  the  prophets — do  they  live  for  ever?"  They  served 
their  generation  according  to  the  will  of  God,  and  with  few 
exceptions  they  have  gone  to  their  rest. 

The  Christian  who  believes  that  God  is  in  human  history, 
guiding  the  course  of  events,  may  well  see  a  Divine  hand 
conspicuously  manifest  in  the  Disruption.  The  event  was 
brought  about  by  the  agency  of  those  who  "  meant  not  so, 
neither  did  their  heart  think  so." 

The  Evangelical  party — afterwards  the  Free  Church — in 
claiming  for  the  people  a  voice  in  the  calling  of  their  ministers, 
wished  to  do  what  was  right,  and  at  the  same  time  to  strengthen 


788  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

the  Establishment ;-  but  the  end  was  that  they  were  themselves 
driven  out,  and  a  heavy  blow  inflicted  on  the  Establishment, 
which  they  had  wished  to  strengthen. 

The  Moderate  party — afterwards  the  Establishment — wished 
to  defend  Patronage,  and  rather  than  have  it  limited  they  pre- 
ferred the  risk  of  Disruption.  But  that  Disruption  which  they 
caused,  has  compelled  them  since  to  ask  from  Parliament  the 
abolition  of  that  very  Patronage  which  they  had  striven  at  such 
cost  to  defend. 

The  Government  of  Sir  Eobert  Peel  were  Conservative  ;  but 
when  they  refused  any  concession — refused  even  a  committee  of 
inquiry — they  shattered  what  all  men  knew  was  the  most  con- 
servative institution  in  the  country. 

Thus  all  the  different  agents  were  led  by  a  way  which  they 
knew  not.  The  Disruption  itself,  in  its  providential  aspects, 
as  well  as  the  whole  train  of  circumstances  that  led  to  it,  was 
evidently  "  the  doing  of  the  Lord."  While  man  proposed,  it  was 
God  who  disposed ;  and  if  so,  it  is  obvious  that  a  heavy  respon- 
sibility has  ever  since  been  lying  on  the  Church,  to  inquire  with 
what  design  God  brought  her  into  this  position,  and  how  best 
she  is  to  carry  out  His  purposes. 

It  is  right  to  bear  in  mind  that  strong  efforts  were  made  by 
the  Evangelical  party  to  avoid  the  catastrophe.  In  3841,  for 
example,  a  movement  was  made  in  Parliament  to  "close  the 
yawning  breach,  and  avert  the  threatened  Disruption."  If  the 
Moderate  party  in  the  Church  had  supported  the  effort  of  the  then 
Duke  of  Argyll,  it  would  have  been  successful.  It  fell  to  Dr. 
Candlish,  in  the  Assembly,  to  speak  for  his  side,  and  he  bent  the 
whole  powers  of  his  eloquence  to  bring  about  mutual  concessions. 
If  the  anti-Patronage  men  would  cease  to  press  for  anti- 
Patronage — and  this  they  were  willing  to  do, — and  if  the  Patron- 
age men  were  willing  to  consent  to  some  modification  in  favour  of 
the  people,  all  parties  might  meet  on  common  ground.  For  eight 
years  the  Moderate  party  had  administered  the  Veto  Law  without 
any  scruple  of  conscience  ;  and  would  they  not,  he  asked,  unite  in 
intimating  to  Parliament  that  it  was  a  thing  they  could — for  the 
sake  of  saving  a  Disruption — submit  to,  though  they  did  not 
approve  of  it?     In  appealing  to  them  with  this  view,  Dr.  Candlish 


DR.    CA.MiLISH. 


FINAL.  789 

broke  forth  into  a  strain  of  eloquence,  so  generous  towards  his 
opponents,  so  touching  in  its  personal  references,  so  full  of  noble 
sentiment,  as  he  pointed  to  the  consequences  of  a  coming  Disrup- 
tion, that  the  whole  Assembly  was  pervaded  by  a  feeling  of 
"  solemnity  and  tenderness."  "  His  address,"  says  Dr.  Buchanan, 
"  shook  the  house  as  if  it  had  been  a  mighty  rushing  wind,  and 
for  a  brief  interval  it  did  seem  as  if  it  had  swept  all  opposition 
before  it."  But  such  was  not  the  will  of  God  ;  ijo  concession 
could  be  obtained,  events  held  on  their  course,  and  the  Dis- 
ruption was  consummated. 

During  these  forty  years  since  our  separation  from  the  State, 
many  changes  have  taken  place ;  but  one  duty  is  still  as  impera- 
tively binding  as  ever  on  the  Free  Church — her  testimony  for 
Spiritual  Independence — "  the  Crown  Eights  of  the  Eedeemer  " 
— must  at  all  hazards  be  maintained  and  vindicated. 

It  is  true  that  Patronage  has  been  abolished  in  the  Establish- 
ment, and  this  was  a  remarkable  tribute  to  the  power  of  the  Free 
Church  and  her  principles. 

It  is  also  true  that  if  this,  or  even  less  than  this,  had  been 
conceded  at  an  early  stage  of  the  conflict,  it  would  have  pre- 
vented the  Disruption,  because  the  constitution  of  the  Established 
Church  had  not  then  been  fixed  on  an  Erastian  basis. 

But  it  is  equally  true  that  as  things  now  are,  the  Free  Church 
must  stand  by  her  principles,  and  uphold  her  testimony  for  the 
Headship  of  Christ. 

As  to  the  Act  by  which  Parliament  abolished  Patronage,  we 
have  the  conclusive  evidence  of  the  Duke  of  Argyll,  and  other 
leading  promoters  of  the  measure,  that  it  did  not  concede  the 
Free  Church  principle  of  spiritual  independence,  and  was  never 
meant  to  concede  it.  It  may  be  enough  if  on  this  point  we  add 
the  well-weighed  opinion  of  Lord  Ardmillan,  who  belonged  to 
the  Free  Church,  but  who  writes  in  no  partisan  spirit — his 
feelings  towards  all  that  is  good  in  tlie  Establishment  being  of 
the  most  cordial  nature.  "  It  is  alike,"  he  says,  "  the  part  of 
wisdom  and  of  duty,  to  hold  fast  the  principles  vindicated  at  such 
cost  in  the  Disruption,  and  to  maintain  the  position  of  Noncon- 
formity ;  for  that  is  our  true  position,  since  Nonconformists  all 
Free  Churchmen  became  when  they  quitted  the  Establishment 


790  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

in  1843.  The  recent  alteration  in  the  law  of  Patronage  does 
not  affect  our  position.  It  may  or  may  not  be  satisfactory  to 
the  Established  Church.  Of  course  we  cannot  approve  of 
Patronage.  We  have  never  done  so.  It  was  not  in  the 
Evangelical  party  that  Patronage  found  support,  nor  can  it  find 
support  in  the  Free  Church.  But  the  new  statute,  whatever  it 
<j[pes,  does  not  remove  the  causes  of  separation ;  it  does  not 
secure;  and  was  not  intended  to  secure,  the  spiritual  independ- 
ence of  the  Church ;  and  after  thirty  years'  experience  of 
Disruption  life,  all  thoughtful  Free  Churchmen  must  have  been 
taught  that  Evangelical  Nonconformity  has  in  it  a  charm  and  a 
power  which  the  State  cannot  bestow,  and  must  have  been 
taught  also  that  the  Church  is  freer,  safer,  and  purer  when 
depending  only  on  the  free-will  oflFerings  of  the  Christian 
people."* 

This  is  the  duty,  then,  which  lies  on  the  Free  Church,  in  the 
Providence  of  God  ;  the  great  principle  for  which  she  made  the 
sacrifice  of  1843  must  be  maintained.  It  has,  indeed,  the  most 
sacred  hereditary  claims  on  her  loyal  support.  "Among  the 
first  words,"  says  the  Kev.  Andrew  Gray,  -|-  "  uttered  by  our 
Church,  when  she  awoke  out  of  Popery  three  centuries  ago,  that 
testimony  was  claimed  as  her  own.  To  the  Parliament  of  the 
kingdom,  and  in  the  hearing  of  Christendom,  she  said :  '  We 
confess  and  avow  Christ  Jesus  to  be  the  only  Head  of  His  Kirk, 
our  just  Lawgiver,  our  only  High  Priest,  Advocate,  and 
Mediator ;  in  which  honours  and  offices,  if  man  or  angel 
presume  to  intrude  themselves,  we  utterly  detest  them  as 
blasphemous  to  our  Sovereign  and  Supreme  Governor,  Christ 
Jesus.'  Thus  spake  the  Scottish  Church  by  the  mouth  of  John 
Knox,  and  while  yet  in  her  cradle.  Providence  must  have 
guided  her  words.  They  announced  her  peculiar  vocation  from 
God,  and  presented  an  epitome  of  her  history  from  that  day  to 
this.  She  did  not  forget  the  lesson  her  lisping  tongue  had 
learned.  '  The  Lord  is  our  Judge,  the  Lord  is  our  Lawgiver, 
the  Lord  is  our  King,'  formed  her  watchword  from  generation 
to  generation.  In  courts,  in  prison,  on  the  scaffold,  at  the 
stake,  she  cried:  '  The  Pope  is  not  our  head,  the  prince  is  not  our 
*  Disruption  Worthies,  Introd.  p.  20.  t  Blue  Book,  1848. 


FINAL.  <'91 

head,  our  only  Head  is  Christ.'  To  the  Church  of  England,  to 
the  Church  of  Holland,  to  the  Huguenots  of  France,  to  the 
Protestants  of  Germany,  the  language  of  her  struggles  and 
manifold  sufferings  was :  *  Give  not  the  things  of  God  unto 
Csesar,  nor  the  prerogatives  of  Christ  to  the  civil  magistrate ; 
let  kings  be  your  nursing  fathers,  and  their  queens  your  nursing 
mothers,  but  let  Christ  alone  be  your  Lawgiver  and  Head.'  It 
is  no  light  matter  to  inherit  such  a  testimony-^a  testimony  in 
itself  so  great,  and  that  was  so  maintained.  Especially  is  it  no 
light  matter  to  have  such  a  testimony  committed  to  us  at  a  time 
like  this.  Everywhere,  both  at  home  and  abroad,  the  Churches 
of  Christ  are  astir,  and  looking  into  their  constitutional  founda- 
tions. All  over  Europe  the  relation  between  Church  and 
State  as  it  has  existed  for  centuries  is  becoming  unsettled,  and 
the  servants  and  people  of  God  are  daily  growing  more  free  and 
willing  to  consider  what  the  true  and  proper  relation  is.  The 
Churches  to  wliich  the  Scottish  testimony  has  made  its  appeal 
so  long,  are  now  at  last  in  a  favourable  condition  for  listening 
to  it.  Who  knows  but  that  God  had  an  eye  to  this  crisis  when 
he  raised  up  the  Church  of  Scotland,  and  appointed  both  her 
recent  baptism  of  tears,  and  her  former  baptisms  of  tears  and 
of  blood.  Let  us  then,  through  the  grace  of  God,  keep  our 
banner  aloft,  that  it  may  be  seen  from  afar  on  these  Scottish 
hills,  among  which  martyrs  used  to  dwell,  drawing  hope  and 
confidence  from  the  cross  of  Christ ;  let  us  hold  forth  with  one 
heart  and  soul  the  testimony  for  His  crown  ! " 

But  while  this  is  a  duty  imperatively  demanded,  it  would  be 
an  evil  day  for  the  Free  Church  if  her  strength  were  chiefly 
given  to  such  contendings.  "While  our  people  should  know  the 
principles  of  their  Church,  and  be  able  on  fitting  occasions  to 
render  a  reason,  yet  a  Church  has  other  work  to  do,  and  in 
looking  forward  to  the  future,  we  may  be  allowed  to  cherish  the 
hope  that  all  the  sections  of  our  divided  Presbyterianism  in 
Scotland  may  yet  be  gathered  into  one.  It  may  even  be  that 
the  Disruption  of  18-t3,  in  the  mysterious  Providence  of  God, 
may  be  designed  to  prepare  the  way  for  such  a  result. 

Already,  as  we  have  seen,  three  unions  have  taken  place  on 
the  ground  of  these  common  principles.     The  original  Synods 


792  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

of  both  branches  of  the  Secession,  and  the  Synod  of  the 
Reformed  Presbyterian  Church,  have  made  common  cause  with 
the  Free  Church.  But  apart  from  such  ecclesiastical  move- 
ments, the  tendency  of  events  in  Scotland,  ever  since  the  Dis- 
ruption, has  been  step  by  step  to  place  all  different  Churches  on 
the  same  level. 

Within  two  years  after  1843,  a  change  was  made  in  the 
administration  of  the  poor-law,  by  which  the  Established  Church 
lost  much  of  the  influential  position  she  formerly  held. 

Another  change  was  the  abolition  of  the  tests  by  which  all 
University  Professors  were  bound  to  attach  themselves  to  the 
Established  Church.  What  brought  the  question  into  pro- 
minence was  an  attempt  to  expel  Sir  David  Brewster  from  the 
office  of  Principal  in  the  University  of  St.  Andrews.  He  was 
the  leading  man  of  science  of  his  day  in  Scotland ;  but  no 
sooner  had  he  joined  the  Free  Church  than  the  Presbytery 
rose  in  arms,  and  took  action,  on  the  Gth  of  June,  within  less 
than  a  fortnight  after  the  first  Free  Assembly.  The  most 
eminent  advocates  were  engaged,  and  a  remarkable  correspond- 
ence took  place*  between  the  Presbytery  and  one  of  their  counsel, 
Mr.  Inglis,  now  Lord  Justice-General,  whose  opinion  was  adverse 
to  the  proposed  prosecution.  The  Presbytery  were  resolute,  how- 
ever. After  "  a  long  and  anxious  conversation  with  Dr.  Cook," 
they  wrote  that  they  had  come  to  the  resolution  to  libel  Sir 
David  Brewster.  It  was  a  question  "  involving,  as  we  think, 
the  very  existence  of  the  Establishment."  They  were  ultimately 
persuaded — not  without  difficulty — to  refrain  from  prosecuting 
the  case. 

Other  cases  occurred ;  public  attention  was  called  to  the 
whole  subject,  and  by  Act  of  Parliament  the  Professors,  other 
than  those  in  the  Faculty  of  Divinity,  were  set  free,  the  Estab- 
lished Church  losing  the  jurisdiction  she  claimed. 

A  still  more   serious  change  was   made   in   regard  to  the 

parochial  schools.     We  have  seen  with  what  relentless  severity 

all  teachers  adhering  to  the  Free  Church  were  expelled,  and 

how  our  great  scheme  of  education  was  set  up.     But  soon  the 

*  Jurisdiction   of  the  Church  over  Universities,  &c.  &c.     Edinburgh  : 
Macphail.     1844. 


FINAL.  793 

need  of  a  national  system  became  apparent.  The  Free  Church 
threw  her  influence  into  the  scale ;  the  public  took  the  matter 
into  their  own  hands,  the  present  School  Boards  were  set  up,  and 
the  exclusive  control  of  the  Established  Church  came  to  an  end. 

In  these  different  changes  something  was  due  to  the  effect  of 
tlie  Disruption.  In  connection  with  such  national  questions, 
the  position  of  the  Establishment  had  become  untenable.  It 
was  one  thing  to  claim  exclusive  control  in  the  days  when 
nearly  the  whole  population  belonged  to  a  Church  truly  national, 
but  it  was  different  when  a  majority  of  the  people  were  outside 
its  pale.  Step  by  step  the  course  of  events  has  been  moving  in 
the  direction  of  religious  equality. 

The  Disruption,  whose  history  we  have  endeavoured  to 
trace,  has,  it  is  obvious,  left  behind  it  many  important  lessons 
which  well  deserve  the  careful  consideration  of  every  thoughtful 
mind. 

The  simple  duty  of  faith  in  God,  for  example,  was  enforced  in 
a  way  that  was  very  memorable.  Often  in  the  midst  of  the  con- 
flict the  path  of  duty  was  dark.  The  world  was  full  of  scornful 
mockery  as  to  the  folly  of  expecting  that  churches  could  be  built, 
and  incomes  provided  for  the  outgoing  ministers ;  and  many  a 
time,  in  our  secret  minds,  we  were  inclined  to  agree  with  the 
world  that  it  was  all  very  hopeless.  The  only  thing  clear  was 
that  we  must  "  do  the  right."  In  mercy  there  was  grace  given 
for  the  day  of  trial ;  and  now,  in  looking  back,  the  Free  Church 
has  simply  to  tell  of  the  faithfulness  of  a  faithful  God.  This, 
then,  is  one  message  which,  in  the  most  emphatic  way,  the 
Disruption  brings  to  all  men  of  all  Churches, — that,  if  only 
they  walk  in  the  path  of  duty,  they  will  not  be  forsaken. 
Many  a  time,  in  the  midst  of  these  Disruption  experiences, 
men's  hearts  have  overflowed  with  gratitude  as  they  were  able 
to  set  up  their  Ebenezer  and  say,  "  Hitherto  the  Lord  hath 
helped  us." 

But  there  was  one  subject  on  which  the  Disruption  cast  most 
unexpected  light — the  power  inherent  in  the  Christian  Church 
to  sustain  by  her  own  free-will  offerings  all  the  ordinances  of 
religion.  When  the  money  was  seen  at  first  pouring  into 
the  treasury,  we  were  often  like  men  who  dreamed.     Worldly 


794  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

men  outside  the.  Church  wondered  what  it  could  mean. 
Even  Christian  men  in  some  cases  were  incredulous.  Dr. 
Duflf  tells  of  an  Episcopalian  congregation  in  England,  fifteen 
hundred  strong,  who  used  to  welcome  the  annual  deputa- 
tion of  the  Church  Missionary  Society,  and  after  two  or 
three  sermons  had  been  preached,  they  were  accustomed 
to  announce  that  the  "handsome" — sometimes  they  said 
"munificent" — collection  of  six  or  seven  pounds  had  been  made.* 
When  some  of  these  "  rich  folks"  were  shown  the  announcement 
that  £750  had  been  got  at  a  collection  in  Dr.  Miller's  church, 
Glasgow,  they  refused  to  believe  it ;  there  must  be  a  figure  too 
many — it  must  be  £75,  or  £50,  and  even  that  seemed  to  them 
incredible.  Both  in,  and  out  of  the  Establishment,  men  had 
the  most  inadequate  ideas  of  how  much  they  were  bound  to 
give  for  the  cause  of  Christ.  The  fountains  of  Christian 
liberality  needed  to  be  broken  up,  and  in  the  Providence  of 
God  this  was  what  the  Disruption  was  sent  to  do.  Under  the 
quickening  power  of  the  Spirit  of  God,  men's  hearts  were 
enlarged,  and  they  began  to  give  of  their  substance  as  they  never 
gave  before. 

The  first  outburst  of  this  liberality  was  wonderful ;  but  more 
wonderful  is  the  fact,  that  it  proved  to  be  no  temporary  convul- 
sive efifort.  Continuously  flowing  with  steady  current  for  forty 
years,  the  liberality  of  the  people  has  placed  an  amount  of  wealth 
at  the  disposal  of  our  Church  greater  than  that  which  she 
possessed  while  within  the  Establishment.  At  first  men  gave 
largely,  in  1843,  under  the  generous  impulse  of  the  Disruption  ; 
but  the  impulse  has  become  a  habit.  Referring  to  the  Susten- 
tation  Fund,  Dr.  Buchanan  said :  "  The  revenues  of  the  Crown 
do  not  come  into  the  nation's  treasury  with  greater  steadiness 
and  regularity  than  does  this  Fund  of  ours."  To  many  it  has 
come  as  a  new  discovery — this  power  of  Christian  principle  to 
caU  forth  the  continuous  liberality  of  the  people;  and  surely  it  is  no 
small  service  which  the  Disruption  has  thus  rendered:  rousing  the 
latent  power  of  our  own  congregations  and  reacting  on  others,  it 
has  influenced  the  whole  Christianity  of  Scotland,  bringing  home 
to  all  the  members  of  all  the  Churches  the  duty  and  privilege  of 
*  Life,  vol.  ii.  p.  195. 


FINAL.  795 

contributing  of  their  substance  to  the  cause  of  Christ,  Compar- 
ing the  scale  of  giving  before  the  Disruption  with  that  which 
has  prevailed  since,  it  is  hardly  too  much  to  say  that  it  has 
effected  a  revolution  in  the  finances,  not  of  the  Free  Church 
alone,  but  of  other  Churches  also.  It  is  not  meant  that  the 
Free  Church  has  reached  the  full  standard  of  giving.  There 
are  latent  powers  yet  waiting  to  be  developed,  but  there  has 
been  enough  of  self-sacrificing,  generous  liberality  to  make  the 
scale  of  her  contributions  to  be  spoken  of  throughout  the 
world. 

In  these  Annals  it  has  been  our  part  to  describe  the  past  and  not 
to  forecast  the  future.  As  years  pass  on,  every  new  generation 
has  its  own  peculiarities;  new  advantages  are  enjoyed,  new  temp- 
tations and  dangers  must  be  encountered,  and  in  the  face  of 
these  the  Church  must  do  her  great  work  for  God  and  man. 
But  in  the  midst  of  all  changes,  the  Church  of  the  future,  we 
may  feel  assured,  will  find  her  safety  and  her  success  just  where 
she  has  found  it  in  the  past. 

Nothing  can  be  more  certain  than  that  the  strength  of  the 
Church  in  Disruption  days  lay  in  the  full  and  faithful  preaching 
of  the  Gospel  of  God's  grace.  In  all  its  length  and  breadth  our 
ministers  rejoiced  to  set  forth  God's  truth  in  regard  to  sin  on 
the  one  hand  and  salvation  through  Christ  on  the  other,  and 
the  work  of  the  Spirit  on  the  souls  of  men. 

But  along  with  this  there  was,  as  these  Annals  have  abun- 
dantly shown,  an  awakening  of  religious  life  and  zeal  which 
made  itself  everywhere  felt.  It  was  there  in  the  sphere  of 
religious  efibrt  that  the  effect  of  the  Disruption  was  specially 
seen — the  new  life  thrown  into  every  department  of  Christian 
work.  It  has  been  our  object  in  these  pages  to  show  how  far 
this  was  realised — how  men  who  had  been  noted  before  for  faith 
and  zeal  toiled  as  they  never  loiied  before,  and  how  their 
hearts  were  often  cheered  by  the  blessing  which  rested  on  their 
labours. 

It  was  this  that  in  a  great  measure  won  for  the  Free  Church  her 
position  in  the  land — this  enthusiastic  devotedness  and  unhesit- 
ating self-sacrifice.  Her  struggles  and  her  testimony  for  the 
Headship  of  Christ  had  been  much,  but  her  zeal  for  the  con- 


796  ANNALS  OF  THE  DISRUPTION. 

version  of  souls  was  more.  The  evangelical  fervonr  of  the 
Church's  best  days  seemed  in  some  good  measure  restored,  and 
while  sinners  were  saved  and  saints  were  refreshed,  men  thanked 
God  and  took  courage. 

It  should  never  be  forgotten  that  the  measure  of  the  Church's 
success  is  not  the  amount  of  her  contributions,  nor  the  number 
ofher  members,  but  the  degree  of  progress  she  is  making  in 
winning  souls  and  subduing  the  world  for  Christ.  It  is  by  the 
faithful  preaching  of  the  Gospel,  and  by  the  presence  of  a  living 
Saviour,  visible  in  the  midst  of  her,  that  this  is  to  be  done.  If 
the  Church  is  to  gain  over  tbe  world,  men  must  recognise  her 
faith  and  zeal  and  self-sacrificing  love,  and  in  these  trace  the 
evidences  of  Christ's  abiding  presence  with  her  as  her  living 
Head.  In  Disruption  times  this  was  what  men  lived  and  prayed 
for,  and  they  did  not  pray  in  vain.  May  a  yet  larger  share  of 
the  same  spirit  be  given  to  our  Church  in  days  to  come,  and 
may  generation  after  generation  of  her  faithful  sons  be  heard, 
as  in  days  past,  pouring  forth  their  hearts  in  the  devout  and 
hallowed  aspiration : — 

"  Now  for  my  friends'  and  brethren's  sakes, 
Peace  be  in  thee,  I'll  say, 
And  for  the  house  of  God  our  Lord 
I'll  seek  thy  good  alway." 


For   New    List   of    Names    as    at    this    date, 
see  Appendix  IV.,  page  817- 

October,  1892. 


/ 


APPENDIX     I. 


DISRUPTION  MINISTERS,  SURVIVING  AND  DECEASED. 

List  op  Ministers  who  left  the  Scottish  Establishment  in  1843,  showing 

THE  Names  of  the  Deceased  and  of  the  Survivors  as  at 

1st   MARCH,   1890. 

The  List  is  marked  by  a  Double  Series  of  Numbers  in  order  to 
distinguish  the  Two  Classes. 

Note. —  Care  has  been  taken  to  ensure  accuracy  so  far  as  the  information  in 
possession  of  the  Church  wo%dd  alloiv.  Should  ariy  of  the  numerous 
details  be  found  defective,  the  Conv&ncr  invites  additional  communi- 
cations. 

*^*  In  regard  to  the  names  marked  with  an  asterisk,  recent  informa- 
tion is  awanting. 


Name. 


Place. 


Bate  of 
Removed  to    Ordina- 
tion. 


I.  SYNOD  OF  LOTHIAN  AND  TWEEDDALE. 


1.  Geo,  R.  Davidson,  D.D., 

2.  Robert  Elder,  D.D.,     . 

3.  David  Thorburn,  D.D., 

4.  A.  M.  Stuart,  D.D.,     . 

5.  Alex.  W,  Brown, 

6.  Thomas  Addis,  D.D.,  . 

1.  David  Welsh,  D.D., 

2.  Geo.  Muirhead,  D.D., 

3.  Thos.  Chalmers,  D.D., 

4.  Robert  Gordon,  D.D., 

5.  John  Glen, 

6.  John  Sym, 

7.  Walter  Fairlie, 


1.  Peesbyteky  of  Edinburgh. 

.  LadyGlenorchy's,  1828 

.  St.  Paul's, .  .  Rothesay,  1831 

.  South  Leith,  .  1833 

.  St.  Luke's,  .  1837 

.  St.  Bernard'.s,  .  resigned,  1841 

.  Morningside,  .  1841 

.  Professor,  .  .  1820 

.  Cramond,   .  .  1788 

.  Principal,  .  .  1803 

.  High  Church,  .  1816 

.  Portobello,.  .  1818 

.  Greyfriars,  .  1833 

.  Gilmerton,  .  1819 


Died  24lh  April,  1845 

5th  April,  1847 

31st  May,  1847 

22nd  Oct.,  1853 

7th  Nov.,  1854 

28th  Jan.,  1855 

25th  Nov.,  1856 


798 


DISRUPTION  MINISTERS,   SURVIVING  AND   DECEASED. 


Date  of 

Name. 

Place. 

Removed  to 

Ordina- 
tion. 

8. 

William  Simpson,     . 

.  Leith  Wynd,      . 

1813 

Died  4th  Jan., 

1858 

9. 

Henry  Grey,  D.D.,  . 

.  St.  Mary's, 

1801 

It     14th  Jan., 

1859 

10. 

W.  Cunningham,  D.D., 

.  Trinity  Church, 

Principal, 

1830 

„     4th  Dec, 

1861 

11. 

Wm.  K.  Tweedie,  D.D., 

.  Tolbooth,   . 

1832 

.,     24th  March 

1863 

12. 

Jame?  Noble,  . 

.  Gaelic, 

Poolewe, 

1839 

M     20th  Oct., 

1864 

13. 

Robert  Ferguson,  M.A., 

.  St.  David's, 

1836 

„     18th  Dec, 

1866 

14. 

Patrick  Clason,  D.D., 

.   Buccleuch, 

1815 

..     30th  July, 

1867 

15. 

William  Nisbet, 

.  John  Knox's, 

1834 

M     27th  Sept., 

1869 

16. 

Jas.  Buchanan,  D.D., 

.  High  Church, 

Professor, 

1828 

M     19th  April, 

1870 

17. 

AjQdrew  Mackenzie, 

.  Henderson  Ch., 

Penicuik, 

1831 

„     4th  March, 

1871 

18. 

James  Lewis,  D.D., 

.  St.  John's,  Leith 

,  Rome, 

1832 

M     29th  Jan., 

1872 

19. 

Thos.  Guthrie,  D.D., 

.  St.  John's, 

1830 

„     24th  Feb., 

1873 

20. 

E.  S.  Candlish,  D.D., 

.  St.  George's, 

1834 

H     19th  Oct., 

1873 

21. 

J.  Julius  Wood,  D.D., 

.  New  Greyfriars 

Dumfries, 

1827 

M     23rd  March 

,1877 

22. 

James  Fairbairn,  D.D., 

.  Newhaven, 

1838 

If     3rd  Jan., 

1879 

23. 

John  Bruce,  D.D.,   . 

.  St.  Andrew's, 

1818 

II     4th  Aug., 

1880 

24. 

John  Thomson,  M.A., 

.  St.  Ninian's, 

1840 

M     19th  Nov., 

1881 

25. 

James  Begg,  D.D.,  . 

.  Liberton,    . 

Newington, 

1830 

11     29th  Sept., 

1883 

26. 

Charles  J.  Brown,  D.D., 

.  New  North, 

1831 

1,     3rd  July, 

1884 

27. 

Alexander  Gregory, 

.  Roxburgh, 

Anstruther, 

1842 

1,     17th  July, 

1888 

28. 

James  Manson, 

.  Dean, 

Duns — retd 

,  1842 

II     21st  Feb., 

1890 

2.  Pkesbytery  of  Linlithgow. 


29. 

Samuel  Martin, 

Bathgate,  . 

1825 

Died  15th  May, 

1850 

30. 

W.M.Hetherington,D.D. 

Torphichen, 

Professor, 

1836 

II       —    May, 

1865 

31. 

Thomas  Gordon, 

Falkirk,      . 

1819 

1,     22nd  July, 

1869 

32. 

Lewis  H.  Irving, 

Abercorn,  . 

Falkirk, 

1831 

M     28th  June, 

1877 

33. 

John  Laing,     . 

Livingstone, 

1842 

II     3rd  April, 

1880 

3.  Presbytery  op  Biggar  and  Peebles. 


34. 

Jas.  Somerville,  D.D., 

.   Drumelzier, 

35. 

Walter  Paterson, 

.  Kirkurd,    . 

36. 

George  Burns,  D.D., 

.  Tweedsmuir, 

Corstorphir 

37. 

James  Proudfoot,     . 

.  Culter, 

38. 

Wm.  Hanna,  D.D., . 

.   Skirling,     . 

Edinburgh, 

4.  Presbytery  o 

F  Dalkeith 

39. 

Thomas  Pitcairn,     . 

.  Cockpen,    . 

40. 

James  Monteith, 

.   Dalkeith,   . 

Ascog, 

41. 

Jas.  Bannerman,  D.D., 

.  Ormiston,  . 

Professor, 

42. 

David  Brown, . 

.   Roslin, 

43. 

Robert  Court, . 

.  Heriot, 

1799  Died  8th  May,  1844 

1837   II  22nd  June,  1849 

1816   M  5th  Feb.,  1876 

1827   II  15th  Nov.,  1876 

1835   M  24th  May,  1882 


1833  Died  21st  Dec,  1854 

1832  I,     20th  April,    1856 

1833  II  27th  March,  1868 
1829  II  3rd  March,  1870 
1831  II     27th  May,     1870 


DISRUPTION   MINISTERS,   SURVIVING   AND   DECEASED. 


799 


Name. 


Date  of 
Removed  to    Ordina- 
tion. 


5.  Presbytery  of  Haddington  and  Dunbar. 


7.  John  Ainslie,  D.D.,    . 

44.  John  Aberneth}',  M.A., 

45.  Andrew  Baird, 

46.  Robert  Lorimer,  LL.D., 

47.  Selby  O.  Dodds,     . 

48.  Angus  Makellar,  D.D., . 

49.  William  Sorley,      . 

50.  Adam  Forman,  M.A.,    . 

51.  Archibald  Lorimer, 

52.  T.  W.  Wright, 

53.  Pat.  Fairbairn,  D.D.,     . 

54.  W.  B.  Cunningham, 

55.  John  Thomson,  D.D.,     . 

56.  James  Dodds, 

57.  John  Thomson, 


Dirleton,    . 

St.  Andrews, 

1835 

Bolton, 

1816 

Died  5  th  July, 

1843 

Cockburnspath, 

1831 

It     22nd  June, 

1845 

Haddington, 

1793 

,1      9th  Nov., 

1848 

Garvald,     . 

1839 

„     22nd  Jan., 

1856 

Pencaitland, 

181'2 

M     10th  May, 

1859 

Bellhaven, 

Selkirk, 

1840 

,.     4th  Oct., 

1859 

Innerwick, 

Leven, 

1824 

„     29th  March 

1865 

Cockenzie, 

1838 

11      23rd  Dec, 

1869 

Haddington, 

1839 

11      23rd  July, 

1872 

Saltoun, 

Principal, 

1830 

11      6th  Aug., 

1875 

Prestonpans, 

1833 

.1      2nd  Aug., 

1878 

Yester, 

Paisley, 

1834 

11     6th  Aug., 

1883 

Humbie,     . 

Dunbar, 

1841 

1.      3rd  Sept., 

1885 

Prestonkirk, 

1831 

11      12th  July, 

1889 

II.  SYNOD  OF  MERSE  AND  TEVIOTDALE. 

6.  Presbytery  op  Duns  and  Chirnside. 

8.  G.  F.  Knight,  M.A.,  . 

9.  John  Fairbairn, 
10.  John  Baillie,      . 

58.  John  Brown,  D.D., 

59.  Archd.  M'Conechy, 

60.  John  Wallace, 

61.  Robert  Cowe,  M.A., 

62.  John  Turnbull,       . 

63.  William  Cousin,     . 

7.  Presbytery  of  Kelso  and  Lauder. 

64.  George  Craig,         .         .  Sprouston, .         .  1835  Died  10th  Feb.,     1866 

65.  Walter  Wood,  M.A.,      .  Westruther,        .  Elie,  1838      n     6th  March,   1882 

66.  Horatius  Bonar,  D.D. ,  .  Kelso,         .         .  Edinburgh,      1837      n     21st  July,     1889 


Mordington, 

Wemyss, 

1832 

Greenlaw,  . 

1833 

Fogo, 

England, 

1841 

Langton,    . 

1805 

Died  25th  June, 

1848 

Bunkle, 

deposed, 

1819 

M      22nd  Sept., 

1853 

Ab.  St.  Bathan's, 

1823 

.1     2nd  Nov., 

1866 

Whitsome, 

Glasgow, 

1832 

.1     25th  Oct., 

1867 

Eyemouth, 

1822 

11      3rd  March, 

1870 

Duns, 

Melrose, 

1840 

II     1st  Aug., 

1883 

67.  John  A.  Wallace,  . 

68.  Andrew  Milroy, 

69.  John  Purves,  D.D., 


70,  Thomas  Jolly, 

71,  John  Edmondston, 

72,  ^\'.  Falconer, . 


8.  Presbytery 
.  Hawick, 
.  Crailing, 
.  .Jedburgh,  . 


OF  Jedburgh. 


Edinburgh, 


9.  Presbytery  of  Selkirk. 
Bowden,     . 
Ashkirk,     . 

Ladhope,    .         .  Ferry-Port- 
on-Craig, 


1827  Died  9th  Feb.,       1870 

1829  11     3rd  May,       1873 

1830  11     18th  Oct.,      1877 


1829  Died  30th  May,  1859 
1837  „  8th  Dec,  1805 
1839      ,1     9th  July,       1886 


800 


DISRUPTION  MINISTERS,   SURVIVING  AND   DECEASED. 


Name. 


Place. 


Removed  to 


Date  of 
Ordina- 
tion. 


11,   W.  Brown  Clark,  D.D., 

73.  G.  Hastie, 

74.  D.  B.  Douie,  M.A., 

75.  E.  M'Bride  Broun, 


III.  SYNOD   OF   DUMFRIES. 

10.  Presbytery  op  Lockerby. 

Half-Morton,      .  Quebec, 
K'pat'k-  Fleming, 
Dryfesdale,  .   Largs, 

Brydekirk,  .   Lochmaben, 


1839 

1834  Died  2nd  Nov.,  1856 

1831   M    1863-4 

1836  ..     30th  Sept.,  1866 


76.  Henry  Duncan,  D.D.,     . 

77.  Robert  Crawford,  . 

78.  Robert  Brydon,  D.D., 

79.  George  J.  Duncan, 

80.  James  Mackenzie,  M.  A., 

81.  J.  R.  Mackenzie,  D.D. 

82.  Robert  Kinnear,     . 


12.  Patrick  Borrowman, 
83.  Thomas  Hastings, 


11.  Presbytery  oi'  Dumfries. 

Ruthwell,  . 

1799 

Died  12th  Feb., 

1846 

K'pat'k-Irongray, 

1832 

„     7th  Aug., 

1856 

Dunscore,  . 

1822 

„     26th  Aug., 

1860 

K'pat'k-Durham,  London, 

1832 

„     31st  Dec, 

1868 

Dalbeattie,          .  Dunfermline, 

1843 

„     10  th  .June, 

1869 

Dumfries,  .          .  Birmingham, 

1841 

II     3rd  March, 

1877 

Torthorwald,      .   Moffat, 

1841 

M     10th  July, 

1883 

12.  Presbytery  of  Penpont. 

Glencairn, . 

1837 

Wanlockhead,    . 

1834 

Died  30th  April, 

1875 

13.  Andrew  Urquhart, 

84.  Robert  M'Neill, 

85.  John  Lamb,  . 

86.  T.  B.  Bell,      . 

87.  Robert  Donald, 


88.  A.  Forrester, 


IV.  SYNOD   OF   GALLOWAY. 

13.  Presbytery  of  Stranraer. 

.  Portpatrick, 

.  Stoneykirk, 

.  Kirkmaiden, 

.   Leswalt,     . 

.  Sheuchan,  .         .  retired. 


1832 

1840  Died  6th  Aug.,  1852 
1826      ,.     2nd  Jan.,  1865 

1841  „     10th  Dec,  1866 

1842  „     19th  Aug.,  1877 


14.  Presbytery  of  Wigtown. 

.  Sorby,         .         .  Halifax,  1835  Died  19th  April,    1869 

15.  Presbytery  of  Kirkcudbright. 


89.  Robert  Jeffray,       .         .  Girthon,     . 

90.  Samuel  Smith,        .         .  Borgue, 

91.  John  Macmillan,  D.D.,  .  Kirkcudbright, 


1818  Died  9th  March,  1844 

demitted,         1834      i,     22nd  June,    1868 

1837      II     29th  Nov.,    1876 


V.  SYNOD  OF  GLASGOW  AND  AYR. 

16.  Presbytery  op  Ayr. 


14.  W.  Chalmers,  D.D.,  . 

92.  Matthew  Kirkland, 

93.  James  Stevenson,  . 

94.  E.  B.  Wallace, 


Dailly,        .         .  London,  1836 

New  Cumnock,  .  1835  Died  27th  July,  1846 

Newton-on-Ayr,  1836      n     30th  Sept.,  1865 

Barr, .         .         .  1819      „     5th  June,  1867 


DISRUPTION    MINISTERS,   SURVIVING    AND   DECEASED. 


801 


hate  of 

A'amc. 

Place. 

Removed  to 

Ordina- 
tion. 

95. 

Andrew  Thomson, 

Maybole,   . 

1S40  D 

ed     

1869 

96. 

Ninian  Bannatyne, 

Old  Cumnock, 

1830 

,     20th  Feb., 

1874 

97. 

Thomas  Burns,    . 

Monkton,  . 

Dunediu, 

1826 

1     23rd  Jan., 

1871 

98. 

William  Hutchison, 

Catrine, 

Johnstone, 

1836 

,     25th  March 

1876 

99. 

William  Grant,    . 

Ayr,  . 

1843 

,     2nd  Nov., 

1876 

100. 

John  Spiers, 

Patna, 

Kinglassie, 

1841 

,     Sth  Feb., 

1878 

101. 

CJeorge  Orr, 

Symington, 
17.  Peesbyteri 

retired, 
OF  Irvine. 

1840 

.     15th  July, 

1882 

15.  Neil  Brodie, 

Kilmarnock, 

P'ckshaws, 

1842 

102. 

•John  Hamilton,  . 

Saltcoats,  . 

Lochranza, 

1838  Died  30th  May. 

1847 

103. 

Peter  Campbell,  . 

Kilmarnock, 

1815 

,     19  th  March 

1850 

104. 

D.  Landsborough,D.D. 

,  Stevenston, 

1811 

,     12th  Sept., 

1854 

105. 

Matthew  Dickie, 

Dunlop, 

Beith, 

1828 

„     28th  Sept., 

1863 

106. 

Thomas  Findlav, 

West  Kilbride, 

1832 

.     13th  June, 

1875 

107. 

David  Wilson, 

Fullarton,  . 

1837 

1     8th  March, 

1881 

108. 

Thomas  Main,  D.D.,    . 

Kilmarnock, 

.   Edinburgh, 

1839 

y.     28th  May, 

1881 

109. 

David  Arthur, 

Stewarton, 

Belize — retd. 

,  1842 

,     18th  March 

,1888 

IS.  Presbytery  of  Paisley. 


110.  George  Logan,  M.A., 

111.  W.  Scott  Hay,      . 

112.  D.  Macfarlane,  D.D., 

113.  James  Falconer,  . 

114.  Peter  Henderson, 

115.  Robert  Smith,  D.D.. 

116.  Robert  Burns,  D.D., 

117.  John  Campbell,    . 
118.*Alexander  Salmon, 
119.  J.  M'Naughton,  D.D. 


Eastwood,  . 

1785 

Died  2nd  July, 

1843 

Bridge-of-Weir, 

1821 

„     15th  Dec, 

1851 

Renfrew,    . 

1827 

„     30th  April, 

1853 

Paisley, 

Canada, 

1837 



1856 

Paisley, 

1841 

n     27th  Sept., 

1861 

Lochwinnoch, 

1815 

„     22nd  Jan., 

1865 

Paisley, 

Canada, 

1811 

M     19th  Aug., 

1869 

Paisley, 

Tarbert, 

1833 

H     17th  Sept., 

1874 

Barrhead,  . 

Sydney, 

1836 

Paisley, 

Belfast, 

1831 

M     27th  May, 

1884 

19.  Presbytery  of  Greenock. 


16.  John  J.  Bonar,  D.D., 

17.  William  Laughton,  D.D.,  . 

120.  Angus  Macbean,  M.A., 

121.  Pat.  M 'Parian,  D.D.,  . 

122.  James  Morison,   . 

123.  James  Drummond, 

124.  John  Dow,  . 

125.  Donald  Macleod, 

126.  John  Geramel,  D.D. ,    . 

127.  -Tames  Smith,  M.  A.,     . 

128.  R.  W.  Stewart,  D.D.,. 

129.  James  Stark, 


St.  Andrew's  Ch 

1835 

St.  Thomas', 

1839 

South  Church, 

1821 

Died  24th  Dec, 

1845 

West  Church, 

1806 

,,     13th  Nov., 

1849 

Port-Glasgow, 

1842 

„     22nd  Sept., 

1852 

Cumbrae,   . 

1830 

„     28th  Jan., 

1862 

Largs, 

1831 

,,     6th  Oct., 

1865 

Gourock,     . 

1831 

1868 

Fairlie, 

1835 

11     25th  March 

1884 

Middle  Church, 

1824 

„     5th  March, 

1886 

Erskine,     . 

Leghorn,          1837 

„     23rd  Nov., 

1887 

Cartsdyke, 

1834 

M     5th  Jan., 
3  F 

1890 

802 


DISRUPTION    MINISTERS,    SURVIVING   AND    DECEASED. 


Date  of 

Xdiiif. 

Place. 

FKcmucid  to 

Ordina- 
tion, 

20.  Presbytery 

OF  Hamilton. 

18.  David  Paton,     . 

.  Ohapelton, 

.  Fettercairn, 

1841 

10.  Alexander  Raiikine,  . 

.  East  Strathaven, 

1842 

130.  Robert  Stirrat,  "  . 

.  Airdrie, 

.  Edinburgh, 

1843  Died  ItJth  Jan., 

1852 

131.  James  Clason, 

.  Dalziel, 

1808 

.     16th  April, 

1852 

132.  James  Anderson, 

.  Blantyre,    . 

1832      , 

I     7  th  May, 

1860 

133.   William  Bnchan. 

.  Hamilton, . 

1831 

1     "2 1st  June, 

1869 

134.  William  .Jackson, 

.  Airdrie, 

1835 

,     8th  Aug., 

1869 

135.  James  Findlay,     . 

.   Broomknoll, 

.  Glasgow, 

1835      , 

24th  July, 

1881 

136.  Sir    H.   W.    INIoncre 

ff, 

D.D.,  Bart., 

.  East  Kilbride, 

.  Edinburgh, 

183(i 

,     4th  Nov., 

18,^.3 

21.  Presbytery  of  Lanark. 

137.  William  Logan,    .         .  Lesmahagow,      .  Sanquhar, 

138.  A.BorlandParker,D.D.,  Lesmahagow,      .  Glasgow, 

139.  Thomas  Stark,      .  .  Lanark, 

22.  Presbytery  of  Dumbarton. 


20.   William  Alexander,  .  .  Duntocher, 

140.  John  Pollock,  M.A.,     .  Baldernock, 

141.  -Tames  Smith,        .         .  Dumbarton, 

142.  Matthew  Barclay, D.D.,  Old  Kilpatrick, 

143.  John  Anderson,    .         .  Helensburgh, 


1820  Died  2nd  Feb.,  1863 
1836  M  4th  April,  1867 
1841   „  2nd  Dec,   1869 


1838 

1836  Died  20th  Dec, 
1839   „  1st  Nov., 
1833   „  22nd  Jan., 
1827   n  9th  Jan., 


21.  .John  Thom.son, . 

22.  Alexander  W^ilson,     . 

23.  Robert  Reid,      . 

144.  Adam  Forman,    . 

145.  Joseph  Somerville, 

146.  Thomas  Brown,  D.D., . 

147.  Jonathan  R.  Anderson, 

148.  William  Burns,  D.D.,  . 

149.  Peter  Currie, 

150.  John  Smyth,  D.D.,       . 

151.  Thomas  Duncan, . 

152.  J.  G.  Lorimer,  LL.D., . 

153.  .Tohn  Cochrane,    . 

154.  Nath.  Paterson,  D.D., . 

155.  James  Gibson,  D.D.,    . 

156.  Hugh  Mackay, 

157.  R.  M'Nair  Wilson,       . 

158.  A.  King,  D.D.,     . 

159.  Jas.  Henderson,  D.D., 

160.  John  Forbes,  D.D.,       . 

161.  Robt.  Buchanan,  D.D., 


23.  Presbytery 

OF  Glasgow. 

Shettleston, 

.  Aberdeen, 

1829 

Bridgeton, . 

1841 

Chalmers,  . 

.  Banch'y-T'n 

1842 

Kirkintilloch, 

1792  Die( 

1 

184  3 

St.  Thomas's, 

1823      „ 

17th  Dec, 

1844 

St.  John's, 

1807      .. 

23rd  .Tan., 

1847 

Knox's  Church, 

1834      „ 

10th  Jan., 

185!» 

Kilsyth,      . 

1800      M 

8  th  May, 

1859 

Stockwell, . 

1820      „ 

30th  Sept., 

1859 

St.  George's, 

1823      „ 

21st  Oct., 

1860 

Kirkintilloch, 

Newcastle, 

1838      „ 

18th  Dec, 

1861 

St.  David's, 

1829      „ 

9th  Oct., 

1868 

Cumbernauld, 

Gr'gemouth, 

1827      „ 

19th  Jan., 

1869 

St.  Andrew's, 

1821       „ 

25th  April, 

1871 

Kingston,  . 

Professor, 

1835      M 

2nd  Nov., 

1871 

Milton, 

Kilmun, 

1842      „ 

30tli  June, 

1873 

Maryhill,    . 

1826      M 

3rd  April, 

1874 

St.  Stephen's, 

1830      „ 

1874 

St.  Enoch's, 

1821       „ 

12th  Sept., 

1874 

St.  Paul's, . 

1826      M 

*5th  Dec, 

1874 

Tron  Church,     . 

1827      H 

31st  Marrh 

1875 

DISRUPTION    MINISTERS,    SURVIVING   AND    DECEASED. 


so:5 


Date  of 

yame. 

Place. 

Removed  to 

Ordina- 
tion. 

162. 

William  Arnot,    . 

St.  Peter's, 

Edinburgh, 

1839 

Died  3rd  June, 

187.-. 

163. 

•lames  M'Kinlay, 

Well  park,  . 

1842 

„      16th  June, 

1876 

164. 

David  Menzies,    . 

Martyrs',    . 

1839 

„'      10th  June, 

1877 

165. 

]Michael  Willis,  D.D., 

Renfield,    . 

Toronto, 

1S21 

■  •       19th  Aug., 

1879 

166. 

W.  M'Gilvray,  D.D., 

Hojje  Street, 

Aberdeen, 

183.^. 

M      30th  June, 

1880 

167. 

James  Munro, 

Rutherglen, 

1836 

„      8th  Nov., 

1884 

168. 

A.  S.  Patei-son,  D.D., 

Hutchesontovvn, 

1837 

„      28th  Jan., 

188.'5 

169. 

John  Lyon, . 

Kilsyth, 

Bro'ty-Furr 

y,  1840 

31st  March 

,1889 

170. 

A.  N.  Sonierville,  D.D. 

Anderston  Ch., 

1837 

M       18th  Sept., 

1889 

171. 

James  Macbeth,  . 

Lauriston,  . 

deposed. 

1807 

" 

VI.  SYNOD  OF  ARGYLL. 
24.  Presbytery  of  Dunoon  and  Inveraray. 


172.  John  Macpherson, 

173.  Peter  M 'Bride,     . 

174.  Duncan  M'Lean, 

175.  Robert  Craig,  M.A., 

176.  M.  Mackay,  LL.D., 

177.  Alexander  M' Bride, 

178.  Joseph  Stark,  M.A., 


Rothesay,  . 

1837 

Rothesay,  . 

1825 

Kilmodan, 

Callander, 

1836 

Rothesay,  . 

1829 

Dunoon,     . 

Tarbert, 

1825 

North  Bute, 

1835 

Kilfinan,    . 

1832 

Died  16th  Sept.,  1843 

H  2nd  Oct.,  1846 

„  14th  June,  1858 

„  26th  May,  1860 

n  17th  May,  1873 

„  28th  April,  187'. 

M  24th  Aug.,  1877 


179.  Angus  Macmillan, 

180.  Duncan  M'Nab,  . 

181.  Hector  M'Neill,  . 


182.  Alex.  Cameron, 

183.  James  Pearson, 


25.  Presbytery  of  Kintvre. 

.  Kilmorie,   . 

.  Campbeltown,    .   Glasgow, 
.  Campbeltown,    . 

26.  Presbytery  of  Islay. 

.  Kilchoman, 
.  Kilarrow,  . 


1822  Died  1st  Oct.,  1843 
1839  .1  r2th  June,  1863 
1835      „      3rd  Aug.,      1879 


1819  Died  30th  April,  1872 
1829      ,.      19th  Jan.,     1883 


27.  Presbytery  of  Lorn  and  Mull. 


184.  Finlay  M'Pherson,  .  Kilbrandon, 

185.  Archibald  Bannatyne, .   Oban, 

186.  Hugh  Fraser,  M.A.,  .  Ardchattan, 

187.  Duncan  M'Lean,  .  Glenorchy, 

188.  William  Fraser,    .  .   Kilchrenan, 

189.  Archibald  Nicholl,  .  Coll,  . 

190.  Duncan  M'Vean,  .  lona, . 


1833  Died  2nd  Jan.,      1852 


Australia, 
Shiskan, 


1842 
1807 
1835 
1827 
1836 
1835 


18th  May, 
6th  Oct., 
26th  Sept., 

11th  Dec, 
16th  Jan., 


1863 
1865 
1871 
1874 
1876 
1880 


804  DISRUPTION   MINISTERS,   SURVIVING   AND    DECEASED. 

Data  of 
Name.  Place.  Removed  to    Ordina- 

tion. 


VII.  SYNOD  OF  PERTH  AND  STIRLING. 


24.  Alexander  Beith,  D.D.,      . 

25.  John  Wright,     . 

191.  Chris.  Greigg,  M.A.,     . 

192.  George  Cupples,    . 

193.  John  Dempster,    . 

194.  John  Bonar,  D.D., 

195.  Ebenezer  Johnstone,     . 

196.  Alexander  Leitch,  M.A. 

197.  William  Maekray,  M.A, 

198.  John  Harper, 


28.  Presbytery 

OF  Stirling. 

Stirling, 

1822 

Alloa, 

1830 

St.  Ninian's, 

1800 

Stirling, 

Doune, 

1812 

Denny, 

1800 

Larbert, 

Glasgow, 

1826 

Plean, 

1839 

,  Stirling, 

1825 

.,  Stirling,      . 

.  Huntly. 

1824 

Bannockburn, 

Bothwell, 

1839 

Died  11th  April.  1844 

,-  1st  INIay,  1850 

„  18th  May,  1855 

„  20th  Dec,  1863 

„  3rd  Feb.,  1864 

M  17th  April,  1868 

„  25th  June,  1870 

M  17th  Oct..  1875 


26.  William  Watt,  . 

199.  William  Anderson, 

200.  Henry  Anderson, 

201.  David  Black, 

202.  Thomas  Hislop,    . 

203.  James  Duncan,     . 
201  W.  ^Mackenzie,     . 


29.  Presbytery  of  Dunblane. 

.  Buckly  vie, .         .  Norrieston, 

.  Kippen, 

.  Tillicoultry, 

.  Gartmore,  .         .  Tillicoultry. 

.  Doune, 

.  Kincardine  East,  Temple, 

.   Dunblane,  .         .  Australia, 


1837 

1811  Died  27th  March,  1845 

1808  „  12th  Aug.,    1845 

1839  „  14th  June.    1878 

1816  n  9th  Sept.,     1879 

1826  „  11th  Dec.    1879 

1829  „  10th  March,  1882 


30.  Presbytery  of  Dunkeld. 


Tenandry, 

Lethendy,  . 

Rattray,     , 

Cargill, 

Clunie, 

Dunkeld, 

Burrelton, 


27.  William  Grant,  M.A. 

205.  Andrew  Kessen,  . 

206.  Francis  Gillies,     . 

207.  Michael  Stirling,  . 

208.  George  Millar, 

209.  John  Mackenzie, 

210.  John  Waddell, 


211.  John  Logan, 

212.  Donald  Mackenzie, 

213.  Alex.  Stewart,  M.A., 

214.  Alexander  Mackinnon,  Strathfillan, 

32.  Presbytery 
28.   A.  A.  Bonar,  D.D.,   .         .  Collace,      . 

215.  Charles  Stewart,  .         .  St.  Stephen's, 

216.  James  M'Lagan.  D.D.,  Kinfauns,  . 

217.  Andrew  Gray,  M.A.,    .  Perth, 

218.  Wm.  Thomson,  D.D.,  .  Perth, 


Colonies, 


Edinburjifh. 


Ratho, 
deposed. 


1836 

1838  Di 

1837 

1808 

1836 

1839 

1825 


14th  Feb.,  1856 
nth  Jan.,  1862 
nth  March,  1865 
24th  Dec,  1869 
25th  May,     1878 


31.  Presbytery  of  Breadalbane. 

.  Lawers,      .  .  Glasgow,          1843  Died  16th  April,  1871 

.  Ardeonaig,  .                            1837      n      10th  Oct.,  1873 

Killin,        .  .                            1839      „      30th  Aug.,  1883 


1840 


23rd  May,    1884 


OF  Perth. 

Glasgow,  ■        1838 

Kirkmichael,  1838  Died  1st  July,       1852 

Professor,         1821  ,,      29th  Oct.,      1852 

1832  ,-      10th  March,  1861 

1801  .»     17th  March,  1863 


DISRUPTION    MINISTERS,    SURVIVING   AND   DECEASED. 


8U5 


Ihde  of 

Same. 

Place. 

He7notr(t  to 

Ordina- 
tion. 

219. 

John  A.  Thomson, 

.  Moneydie, . 

1828  D 

ed  1st  Oct., 

1864 

220. 

John  Milne, 

.  Perth, 

Calcutta, 

18;39 

,     31st  May, 

1868 

221. 

J.  Grierson,  D.D., 

.  Errol, 

1819 

,     22nd  Jan., 

1875 

222. 

C.  C.  Stewart, 

.  Aberdalgie, 

Scone, 

1832 

,     30th  Dec, 

1876 

223. 

William  Mather, . 

.  Stanley, 

1832 

,     25th  Sept., 

1877 

224. 

John  Walker, 

.  Perth, 

retired, 

1842 

,     yth  July, 

1880 

225. 

Alex.  Cuniming,  . 

.  Dunbarny, 

Glasgow, 

1834 

1     15th  Dec, 

1880 

226. 

.Tames  Drummond, 

.   Forgandenny, 

1828 

,     14th  Sept., 

1885 

33.  Prksbytery  of  Auchterarper. 


29.  J.  Reid  Omond,  D.D., 

.  Monzie, 

1836 

227.  Samuel  (4rant, 

.  Ardoch, 

.  Bon-Accord, 

1840 

Died  14th  Jan., 

1853 

228.  Finlay  ]\Iacalister, 

.  Crietf, 

1839 

„     22nd  June, 

1866 

229.  James  Thomson,  . 

.  Muckart,    . 

1832 

„     23rd  Dec, 

1871 

230.  James  Garment,  . 

.  Comrie, 

1841 

n     29th  Jan., 

1880 

231.  John  Ferguson,    . 

.  Monzie vaird, 

.  B.  of  Allan, 

1835 

,,     30th  May, 

1881 

232.  Andrew  Noble,  M.A., 

.  Blairingone, 

.  London, 

1841 

„     12th  Jan., 

1882 

VIII.  SYNOD  OF  FIFE. 


34.  Presbytery  of  Dunfermline. 


233.  John  Balfour, 

234.  W.  W.  Duncan,    . 

235.  Thomas  Doig,  M.A.,     . 

236.  And.  Sutherland,  M.A.^ 

237.  James  Thornton, 

238.  William  Gilston,  . 

239.  Charles  Marshall, 


35.  Presbytery  of  Kinross. 
240.  Hugh  Laird,  D.D.,       .  Portmoak, .         .  1801  Died  28th  May,     184» 


Culross, 

1816  D 

ed  21st  Aug., 

1845 

Cleish, 

Peebles, 

1836 

,     9th  July, 

1864 

Torryburn, 

1819 

,     26th  Sept., 

1866 

Dunfermline, 

Gibraltar, 

1839 

„     18th  Oct., 

1867 

Milnathort, 

Orwell, 

1816 

,     3rd  Sept., 

1874 

Carnock,     . 

1827 

M     29th  July, 

1881 

Dunfermline, 

1841 

1     16  th  June, 

1882 

36.  Presbytery  of  Kirkcaldy. 


30.  Alex.  O.  Laird, 

31.  John  Isdale, 


241.  John  Thomson,     . 

242.  Jas.  Sieve  Wright,  D.D., 

243.  John  Alexander,  D.D., 

244.  Charles  Watson,  D.D., 

245.  Charles  .Jamieson, 

246.  Robert  M'Indoe,  . 

247.  David  Couper,  D.D.,    . 


Abbotshall, 

Dundee, 

1833 

Inverteil,    . 

Glasgow, 

1843 

Dysart, 

1820 

Died  24th  March 

1848 

Markinch, . 

1815 

„     29th  Nov., 

1852 

Kirkcakly, 

1836 

„     21st  May, 

1863 

Burntisland, 

retired. 

1820 

„     11th  Aug., 

1866 

Pathhead,  . 

1840 

„     1st  Feb., 

1870 

Kirkcaldy, 

Galston, 

1831 

„     10th  March 

1877 

Ijurntisland, 

1834 

„     20th  March 

1882 

80(i 


DISRUPTION    MINISTERS,   SURVIVING    AND    DECEASED. 

Place. 


Xame. 


Date  of 
Removed  to       Ordina- 
tion. 


■L  J. 

248. 
249. 
250. 
251. 
252. 
253. 
254. 
255. 


W.  Taylor,  D.D.,  . 
Andrew  Melville^ 
John  Duncan, 
Angus  M'Gillivray, 
John  Macfarlane,  D.D., 
James  Brodie,,M.A.,    . 
Adam  Cairns,  D.D., 
John  Murray, 
George  Sineaton,  D.D., 


37.  Presbytery  of  Cupar. 

FHsk, 
Logie, 
Ceres, 
Dairsie, 
Collessie,    . 
Monimail, 
Cupar, 
Dunbog,     . 
Falkland,   . 


33.  W.  Ferrie,  M.A., 

256.  Charles  Nairn,      . 

257.  R.  Lundin  Brown, 

258.  Ralph  Robb, 

259.  Wm.  Nicolson,  D.D.^ 


38.  Presbytery  ov 

.  Easter  Ans'ter, 
.  Forgaii, 
.  Largo, 
.  Strathkinnes, 
Ferry  -  port  -  on 
Craig, 


St.  Boswtlls, 

Dalkeith, 

Melbourne, 

Abdie, 

Professor, 

St.  Andrews. 

Brunswick, 
Dundee, 

Halifax, 
HobartTn., 


1839 

1803  Died  30th  June,  1848 

1836  ..  4th  May,  1867 

1828  „  8th  Dec.  1873 
1823  M  2nd  June,  1875 

1829  n  3rd  Feb.,  1878 
1828  ..  30th  Jan.,  1881 

1837  M  29th  April,  1882 
1839  ..  14th  April,  1889 


1839 

1836  Died  17th  March,  1873 
9th  April,     1877 


1821 
1827 
1828 


2nd  Jan..       1890 


IX.  SYNOD  OF  ANGUS  AND  M EARNS. 


34.  R.  Macdonald,  D.D., 
260.  David  White, 


39.  Presbytery  of  Meiglk. 

Blairgowrie,        .  Leith, 
Airlie, 


1837 

1833  Died  29th  Dec, 


1873 


40.  Presbytery  of  Forfar. 

'j.  Donald  Fergusson,     .         .  Dunnichen,         .  Leven, 

261.  Daniel  Cormick,  .         .  Kirriemuir, 

262.  William  Clugston,M.A.,  Forfar, 


1837 

1839  Died  24th  May,     1848 

1817       M     3rd  March.    1857 


41.  Presbytery  of  Dundee. 


36.  John  Baxter,  D.D.,    . 

.  Hilltown,  . 

Blairgowrie, 

1838 

37.  Alex.  M'Phersou, 

.   Dudhope,   . 

Meigle, 

1841 

263.  David  Davidson, 

.   Broughty-Ferry, 

1827 

Died  25th  Aug., 

1843 

264.  Robert  Aitken,     . 

.  Willison  Church, 

1811 

11     1st  July, 

1845 

265.  William  Stewart, 

.   Lochee, 

1832 

„      13th  Oct., 

1852 

266.  Charles  Macalister. 

.   Dundee, 

1819 

,.     11th  Feb., 

1854 

267.  Robert  S.  Walker. 

.  Longforgau, 

1807 

„     11th  May, 

1854 

268.  William  Reid,       . 

.  Chapelshade. 

Collessie, 

1830 

M     22nd  Dec, 

1854 

269,  -lames  Miller, 

.  Mouikie,     . 

1803 

1.     25th  May, 

1860 

270.   David  B.  Mellis,  . 

.  Tealing,      . 

1830 

„     26th  ]\Iay, 

1861 

DlSllUrriON   MINISTERS,    SUllVIVIN(;i    AND   DECEASED.  80"; 

Date  of 
Name.  Place.  liemoved  to    Unlino- 

tio„. 


271.  I'atrick  L.  Miller, 

272.  George  Lewis,       .          .  Dundee,      .  .  Oi-iuiston,  1837 

273.  John  Roxburgh,  D.D., .  Dundee,      .  .  Glasgow,  183-i 

274.  Samuel  Miller,  D.D.,    .  Monifieth, .  .  Glasgow,  1836 

275.  James  Ewing,       .          .  Dundee,      .  .  1837 


Wallacetowii,     .  Newcastle,        1840  Died  16th  April,  1866 

27th  Jan.,  1879 

2nd  Nov.,  1880 

5th  July,  1881 

12th  Feb.,  1886 


42.    rUESBYTEKY    OF    BuKl'HIN. 


'6b.  William  Nixon,  D.D.,         .  Montrose, 

31*.  James  M'Cosh,  LL.D.,       .  Brechin, 

276.  And.  Fergusson,  M.A.,  Mary  ton, 

277.  James  Brewster,  D.D.,  Craig, 

278.  Mungo  J.  Parker,         .  Brechin, 

279.  Robert  Inglis,      .         .  Edzell, 

280.  A.  L.  R.  Foote,  D.D.,  .  Brechin, 


1832 
Trincet'n  Un.,1835 

1795  Died  24th  Oct.,  1843 

1804      „     5th  Feb.,  1849 

1837      M      Ist  April,  1867 

1837      ti     19th  Jan.,  1876 


1835 


6th  Sept.,      1878 


43.  Pkesbyteky  of  Arbroath. 


40.  John  Laird,  D.D.,     . 

41.  John   Montgomery,  M.A., 

281.  John  Kirk,  . 

282.  Thomas  Wilson,   . 

283.  James  Lumsden,  D.D., 

284.  Alexander  Leslie, 

285.  William  Wilson,  D.D., 

286.  Thomas  Dymock.M.  A., 

287.  David  Crichton,  LL.D., 


Inverkeillor, 

.  Cupar, 

1835 

Arbroath,  . 

.   Innerleithen, 

1839 

Arbirlot,    . 

1824  Died  4th  March, 

1858 

Friocklieim, 

1837 

,      30  th  March 

,1872 

Barry, 

.   Principal, 

1836 

,     7th  Oct., 

1875 

Ladyloan,  . 

.   Aberdeen, 

1842 

,      11th  May, 

1878 

Carmylie,  . 

.  Dundee, 

1837 

1     14th  Jan., 

1888 

Carnoustie, 

.   Perth, 

1837 

,      4th  Feb., 

1888 

Inverbrothock, 

1838 

.     4th  Feb., 

1888 

42.  Thomas  Brown,  D.D.,        .   Kinneff, 

288.  James  Glen,  M.A.,        .  Benholme, . 

289.  Alexander  Keith,  D.D.,  St.  Cyrus,  . 

290.  Alex.  Keith,  jun.,M. A.,  St.  Cyrus,  . 


44.  Presbytery  op  Fohdodn. 
.  Edinburgh, 


1837 

1826  Died  11th  Dec,  1866 

1816      „      15th  Feb.,  1880 

1840      „     29th  April,  1880 


X.  SYNOD  OF  ABERDEEN. 


43.  Alex.  Spence,  D.D.,  . 

.  St.  Clement's 

1837 

291.  Robert  Thomson, 

.   Peterculter, 

1840  Died  30th  Jan., 

1845 

292.  Gavin  Parker, 

.  Bon-Accord, 

1823 

1     5th  June, 

1845 

293.  James  Stewart,    . 

.  South  Church, 

1838 

1      5th  June, 

1846 

294.  James  Foote,  D.D., 

.  East  Church, 

1809 

r     25th  June, 

1856 

295.  George  Moir,  M.A., 

.  New  Machar, 

1840 

1      17th  June, 

1857 

296.  John  Fleming,  D.D., 

.  Professor,  . 

Edinburgh, 

.      18th  Nov., 

1857 

808 


DISRUPTION    3IINISTERS,   SURVIVING   AND   DECEASED. 


jVflJHC. 

Place. 

Removed  to 

Date  of 
Ordina- 
tion. 

297. 

Hugh  Mackenzie, 

Gaelic  Church, 

1822  Died  31st  Jan., 

1859 

298. 

Robert  Forbes,  INI.  A., 

Woodside, . 

1836      , 

.     21st  Oct., 

1859 

299. 

John  Murray,  D.D., 

North  Church, 

1816      , 

1     1st  March, 

1861 

300. 

James  Bryce,  D.D., 

Gilcomston, 

1824       , 

,     23rd  March 

1861 

301. 

A.  Black,  D.D.,    . 

Professor,  . 

Edinburgh, 

1816      , 

,     —  Feb., 

1864 

302. 

David  Simpson,    . 

Trinity,       . 

1823 

,     28th  July, 

1864 

303. 

William  Primrose, 

Melville  Church 

1806 

,     30th  May, 

1866 

304. 

A.  D.  Davidson,  D.D., 

West  Church, 

1832 

1     27th  April, 

1872 

305. 

Robert  J.  Brown,  D.D. 

Professor,  . 

1821 

>     7th  Dec, 

1872 

306. 

Abercr.  L.  Gor  don,  M.  A. 

,  Greyfriars, 

1826 

1     17th  March 

,  1873 

307. 

William  Mitchell, 

Holborn,    . 

1838      , 

,     1 5th  May, 

1880 

308. 

John  Stephen,  M.A., 

John  Knox's, 

1838 

1     17th  June, 

1881 

309. 

J.  Longmuir,  LL.D., 

Mariners',  . 

1840 

,     7  th  May, 

1883 

310. 

John  Allan, 

Aberdeen,  . 

retired, 

1832 

,     21st  May. 

188.^. 

46.  Presbytery  of  K 

[NCARDINE-O'- 

Neil. 

44.  David  S.  Fergusson,  . 

Strachan,    . 

1836 

311. 

James  M'Gown,  . 

Bankhead, . 

Airdrie, 

1832  Died  2nd  June, 

1864 

312. 

W.  Anderson,  LL.D.,  . 

Banchory-Terna 

n. 

1830 

,     7th  Dec, 

1870 

313. 

Donald  Campbell, 

Cluny, 

Ballater, 

1841       , 

22nd  Sept., 

1878 

314. 

Donald  Stewart,  . 

Glengairn, . 

1833 

,     24th  July, 

1879 

315. 

Farquhar  Macrae, 

Braemar,    . 

Knockbain, 

1833 

,     19th  Dec, 

1882 

47.  Presbytery  of  Alford. — None. 


48.  Presbytery  of  Garioch. 


316.  Henry  Simson,     .         ,  Chapel-Garioch, 

317.  Robert  Simpson,  D.D.,   Kintore,     . 

318.  David  Simson,      .         .  Oyne, 

319.  George  Garioch,  M.A.,    Old  Meldruni,    . 


1817  Died  30th  Jan.,  1850 

1833      „     29th  June,  1870 

1839       n     8th  March,  1871 

1S17      „     12th  May,  1872 


49.  Presbytery  of  Ellon. 
320.  Alexander  Philip.M.A.,  Cruden,      .         .  Portobello,      1836  Died  1st  March.     1861 


45.  James  Yuill, 

321.  J.  Anderson,  D.D., 


46.  Wm.  G.  Blaikie,  D.D., 

322.  Gilbert  Brown,     . 

323.  Joseph  Thorburn, 

324.  Hugh  Gordon,      . 

325.  John  Manson,  M.A., 


50.  Presbytery  of  Deer. 
Peterhead, 


St.  Fergus, 


Morpeth, 


51.  Presbytery  of  Tubrikf. 

,  Drumblade,         .  Professor, 

,  New  Byth, 

,  Forglen,      .  .   Inverness, 

,  Monquhitter, 

,  Fyvie, 


1835 

1822  Died  17tli  May,     1882 


1842 

1816  Died  3rd  Aug.,  1852 

1829   „  15th  May,  1854 

1829   „  —  June,  1866 

1829   „  20th  Nov..  1872 


DISRUPTION   MINISTERS,    SUEVIVING   AND   DECEASED. 

Hate  of 
Name.  Place.  Removed  to     Ordina- 

tion. 


809 


52.  Presbytery  of  Fordyce. 


.  Ord,   . 

.  Cullen, 
George  Innes,  M.A.,     .  Deskford, 
Francis  W.Grant,M. A.,  Banff, 


7.  David  Brown,  D.D., 
326.  George  Innes, 

327, 
328 


329.  Alexander  Reid,  M.A.,  Portsoy, 

330.  Robert  Shanks,  M.A., .  Buckie, 

331.  Alex.  Anderson,  M.A.,  Boyndie, 


Principal, 

1836 

Ganonbie, 

1843  Died  24th  Nov., 

1847 

1808 

,      1st  Oct., 

1851 

1816 

,     12th  April, 

1858 

1829 

<     7th  April, 

1863 

1837 

,     17th  April, 

1884 

Gymnasium, 

1830 

,     25th  Oct., 

1884 

Old  Aberdn 

, 

XI.  SYNOD  OF  MORAY. 

53.  Presbytery  of  Strathbogie. 


48.  \V 

R.  Moncur, . 

.  Botriphnie, 

.  Liff, 

1843 

332. 

John  Robertson,  . 

.  Gartly, 

1819 

Diet 

3rd  June, 

1S50 

333. 

David  Henry, 

.  Marnoch,    . 

1834 

„ 

7th  Oct., 

1870 

334. 

William  Sinclair, 

.  Huntly,      . 

.  Kirkwall, 

1843 

M 

20th  March 

1874 

335. 

Thomas  Wright,  . 

.  Rhynie, 

.  Swinton, 

1842 

II 

3rd  Dec, 

1882 

336. 

Thomas  Bain, 

.  Mortlach,   . 

.  Coupar- 
Angus, 

1842 

II 

8th  March, 

1884 

337. 

David  Dewar, 

.  Bellie, 

1837 

1, 

5th  May, 

1885 

338. 

W.Taylor,   . 

.  Glass, 

.  Wick,  retired,  1843 

M 

12th  March 

1886 

339. 

W.  Moffat,  . 

.  Cairnie, 

54.  Presbytery 

OF  Abernethy. 

1843 

II 

15th  Sept., 

1886 

340. 

George  Shepherd, 

,  Kingussie, . 

, 

1818 

Died 

20th  July, 

1853 

341. 

Alexander  TuUoch, 

,  Kirkmichael, 

. 

1820 

" 

5th  Dec, 

1855 

55.  Presbytery  of  Aberlour. 


342,  Alexander  M'Watt,      .  Rothes, 


1839  Died  27th  Nov.,    1880 


343. 
344. 
345. 
346. 


56.  Presbytery  of  Elgin. 


Robert  Dunbar,  M.A., .  Pluscarden, 
Alexander  Gentle,         .  Alves, 
Alexander  Topp,  D.D.,   Elgin, 
David  Waters,      .         .   Burghead,  . 


Toronto, 


1840  Died  17th  Feb.,     1859 

1828  II      25th  March,  1869 

1838  ..     6th  Oct.,        1879 

1826  II     31st  March,  1887 


57.  Presbytery  of  Forres. 


347.  Wm.  Robertson,  M.A.,  Kinloss, 

348.  George  Mackay,  D.D., .  Rafford, 

349.  Duncan  Grant,  M.A.,  .  Forres, 

350.  INIark  Aitken,       .         .  Dyke, 


1813  Died  13th  Nov.,    1860 
1816      II      19th  Jan.,     1863 

1814  II     i7th  March,  1866 
1816      M     20th  June,    1869 


810 


DISRUPTION   MINISTERS,   SURVIVING    AND   DECEASED. 

Date  of 
JV^q/iif.  Place.  Removed  to     Ordina- 

tion. 


351.  John  Grant, 

352.  Archibald  Cook,  . 

353.  David  Sutherland. 

354.  Alexander  Fraser, 


58.  Presbytery  op  Inverness. 


Petty, 
Inverness, 
Inverness. 
Kirkhill. 


355.  T.  M'Lauchlan,  LL.D.,  Moy. . 


Roseneath 
Daviot, 


Edinbursfh, 


183i  Died  2nd  Sept.,     185-5 

1823  „     6th  May,       1865 

1839  „     18th  Oct.,      1875 

1828  -.     21st  June,     1883 

1838  ..     21st  March,  1886 


59.  Peesbyteky  of  Naihx. 


356.  John  Matheson,  .         .  Ardersier.  . 

357.  William  Barclay,  M.A.,  Auldearn,  . 

358.  Simon  F.  M'Lauchlan,  Cawdor, 


1839  Died  12th  Nov.,  1848 
1814  „  4th  June,  1857 
1833      ,.     8th  May.       1881 


359.  Alexander  Stewart. 

360.  Donald  Sage,  M.A., 

361.  Donald  Kennedy, 

362.  John  M'Rae, 

363.  Simon  Fraser. 


XII.  SYNOD  OF  ROSS. 

60.  Presbyteky  of  Ch.^nonry. 

.  Cromarty,  . 

.  Kirkmichael. 

.  Killearnan, 

.  Knockbain,         .  Carloway, 

.  Fortrose,    . 


1824  Died  5th  Nov.,  1847 
1816  „  31st  March,  1869 
1838  M  23rd  May,  1871 
1833  „  9th  Oct.,  1876 
1835      .1     6th  Sept.,      1887 


364.  J.  Macdonald,  D.D., 

365.  John  Noble,  M.A., 

366.  John  Mackenzie. 

367.  Alexander  Flyter, 

368.  Alexander  Anderson. 


369. 
370. 
371. 


George  M'Leod.  . 
Patrick  Tulloch,  . 
Duncan  Campbell, 


372.  James  M 'Donald, 


49.  Hugh  M'Leod,  D.D., 

50.  Gustavus  Aird,  D.D., 


61.  Presbytery  of  Dingwall. 

.  Urquhart.  . 

.   Fodderty,  . 

.  Carnoch, 

.  Alness, 

.  Keanloch-Luichart, 

.  Maryborough,    .  Lochbroom, 

.  Strathglass,         .   Inveravon. 

.  Kiltearn,    . 

.  Urray, 

62.  Presbytery  of  Tain. 


1806  Died  16th  April,  1849 


1833 
1829 
1811 
1842 
1841 
1842 
1834 
1830 


16th  April, 
6  th  Nov., 
3rd  Jan., 
1st  Dec, 
2nd  May, 
22nd  July, 
21st  Oct., 
14th  Feb., 


373.  John  Macalister, 

374.  Donald  Gordon,  M.A.. 

375.  Hector  Allan,  M.A.,    . 

376.  David   Carment,  M.A., 

377.  C.  R.  Matheson,  M.A., 

378.  Chs. C.  Mackintosh,  D.D 

379.  David  Canii.bell, . 


Logie-Easter, 
Croich, 
Nigg, 

Kdderton,  . 
Kincardine, 
Rosskeen,  . 
Kilniuir-Easter 
,Tain, . 
Tarbat. 


Cape  Breton,  1833 


Crieth, 


Dunoon, 
Lawers, 


1841 

1824  Died  17th  Dec, 


1822 
1818 
1810 
1812 
1828 
1832 


30th  Aug., 
9th  Dec, 
26th  May, 
14th  May, 
24th  Nov., 
25th  Jan., 


1849 
1864 
1866 
1866 
1871 
1871 
1873 
1882 


1844 
1847 
1853 
1856 
1866 
1868 
1877 


DISRUPTION   MINISTERS,   SURVIVING    AND   DECEASED. 

Place. 


811 


Niimc. 


Date  of 
Itcmoved  to       Ordina- 
tion. 


XIII.  SYNOD  OF  SUTHERLAND  AND  CAITHNESy. 


51.  (ieorye  K.  Kennedy,. 

380.  Duncan  Macgillivray, 

381.  Angus  Kennedy,  . 

382.  .T.  D.  Kennedy,    . 

383.  Charles  Gordon,  . 

384.  Peter  Davidson, 


63.  Pkesbyteuy  of  Dornoch. 

.  Dornoch,    . 
.   Lairg, 
.  Dornoch,    . 
.   Rosehall,    . 
.  Assynt, 
.  Stoer, 


385.  George  Mackay,  D.D.,    Clyue, 


Kilbride, 
Inverness, 


1837 

1801   Died  nth  Feb. 


181!' 


1802 
1835 
1825 
1830 
1828 


22nd  June,  1855 
20th  March,  1873 
25th  Sept.,  1873 
15th  April,  1875 
27th  .Tune,    1886 


386. 

Hugh  Mackenzie, 

.  Tongue, 

387. 

William  Mackenzie, 

.  Tongue, 

388. 

Robert  R.  ]Mackay, 

.   Halkirk,     . 

389. 

David  Mackenzie, 

.  Farr, 

390. 

William  Findlater, 

.  Durness,    , 

391. 

George  Tulloch,   . 

.   EdrachlUis. 

64,  Pbesbyteey  op  Toncue, 


Bruan, 


1796  Died  30th  June, 

1845 

1843      V     25th  July, 

1845 

1838      1.     22nd  Nov., 

1866 

1813       ..     24th  Feb., 

1868 

1808      M     29th  June, 

1869 

1829      ,.     27th  Jan., 

18S0 

65.  Pkesbyteuy  of  C.mthness. 


.  W.  K.  Taylor,  D.D., . 

.  Thurso, 

1829 

.  Alexander  Gunn, 

.  Watten,      . 

1837 

392.  John  Munro, 

.  Halkirk,     . 

1806 

Died  1st  April, 

1847 

393,   W,  Mackenzie,      . 

.  Olrig, 

1819 

,,     20th  June, 

1857 

394.  Finlay  Cook, 

.  Reay, 

1817 

,,     12th  June, 

1858 

395.  Samuel  Campbell, 

.  Berriedale, 

1837 

„     15th  Dec, 

1868 

396.  Charles  Thomson, 

.  Wick, 

1823 

„     26th  April. 

1871 

397.   George  Davidson, 

.  Latheron,  . 

1819 

„     14th  Aug., 

1873 

398.   Thomas  Gunn,      . 

.  Keiss, 

Madderty,       1829 

M     8th  March, 

1886 

XIV.  SYNOD  OF  GLENELG. 


66.  Presbytery  of  Locucaukon. 


399.  Thomas  Ross,  LL.D.,  .  Lochbrooni 

400.  Alexander  Macdonald,    Plockton,   . 

401.  Donald  Macrae,   .         .  Poole  we, 

402.  George  Corbett,    .         .   Knoydart. . 

403.  Colin  Mackenzie,  M.A.,  Sheildaig, 


1798  Died  —  October,  1843 


1826 

,     15th  Aug., 

1864 

Kilmorie, 

1830 

.     6th  Aug., 

1868 

Aruisdale, 

1836 

,     19th  Sept., 

1863 

Mis.Glene 

retired. 

1827 

„     8th  Dec. 

18&-J 

812  DISRUPTION    MINISTERS,   SURVIVING   AND    DECEASED. 

Date  of 
Xame.  Place.  Removed  to    Ordina- 

tion. 


67.  Presbytery  of  Abertarff. 


404.  Thorn.  Davidson,  M.A.,  Kilmallie,  . 

405.  John  Macmillani .         .  Ballachulish, 

406.  W.  Lauder,  .         .  .  Glengarry, 

407.  Charles  Stewart,  .         .  Fort-William, 


Cardross, 
Strachur, 


1829  Died  13th  Dec, 

1828      „         

1840      ,.     14th  Oct., 
1840      M     17th  Sept., 


1871 


1885 
1886 


68.  Presbytery  of  Skye  and  Uist. 


408. 

.John  R.  Glass, 

.  Bracadale, . 

409. 

Roderick  M'Leod, 

.  Snizort, 

410. 

John  Swanson,     . 

.  Small  Isles, 

411. 

Norman  Macleod, 

.  Trumisgarry 
69.  Presbyt 

412. 

.John  Finlay, 

.  Cross, 

413. 

Robert  Finlayson, 

.  Lochs, 

414. 

Alexander  M'Leod, 

.  Uig,   .         . 

415. 

Duncan  Mathison, 

.  Knock, 

Musselburgh,  1826  Died  29th  Dec,  1855 
1823       „     20th  March,  1868 

Nigg,  1839      M     14th  Jan.,     1874 

1835      ..     5th  March,    1881 


Rogart, 
Gairloch, 


1840  Died  17th  Sept.,  1844 

1829      M     23rd  .July,  1861 

1819      „     13th  Nov.,  1869 

1831      „     12th  Dec,  1873 


Glenelg, 


416.  Peter  Petrie,  M.A., 

417.  James  Smellie, 

418.  W.  Malcolm,  M.A., 

419.  Peter  Learmonth, 

420.  George  Ritchie,  M.A.,  Rousay, 

421.  Adam  White,  M.A.,     .  N.  Ronaldshay,  .  Harray, 


70.  Presbytery  of  Orkney. 

Kirkvsrall,    .         .  Govan, 
St.  Andrews, 
Firth  and  Stennis, 
Stromness, 


422.  Adam  Rettie, 


Evie. 


1831  Died  28th  Jan.,  1850 

1805  n  22nd  Dec,  1852 

1807  ..  1st  Dec,  1857 

1833  .,  21st  Oct.,  1858 

1834  „  23rd  Oct.,  1858 
1837  .,  16th  Aug.,  1873 
1S41  „  12th  April,  1875 


71.  Presbytery  of  Shetland. 


,54.    John  Ingram,     . 

423.  John  Elder, . 

424.  Archibald  Sinclair, 

425.  James  Gardner,     . 

426.  'James  Ingram,  D.D., 

427.  Alexander  Stark,  M.A.,  Sandwick, 


Unst, 

1838 

Walls, 

1840 

Died  4th  Feb., 

1860 

Walls, 

.  Edinburgh, 

— 

,,     20th  .Jan., 

1867 

Quarfi; 

1830 

11     23rd  .Jan., 

1867 

Unst, 

1803 

11     3rd  March, 

1879 

Sandwick,  . 

.  Closeburn, 

1830 

,1     12th  Aug., 

1881 

DISRUPTION    MINISTERS,   SURVIVING    AND    DECEASED. 


8i;j 


List  of  Scottish    Missiokaries  who    left  the  Establishment  in    1843, 

SHOWING    the    ISTaMES    OF    THOSE  WHO    SURVIVE    IN    MaKCH,    1890,   AND   OF 
those  who  HAVE  BEEN  REMOVED  BY  DeaTU. 


INDIA. 

Name. 

Siaiion.            Ordained. 

1.  J. 

Murray  Mitchell,  LL.D., 

Bombay,         July, 

1838 

2.  Thomas  Smith,  D.D.,      . 

Calcutta,  7th  March, 

1839 

1. 

John  Macdonald, 

Calcutta,  17th  March,1831 

2. 

Robert  Johnston, 

Madras,   5th  Sept., 

1838 

3. 

John  Anderson, 

Madras,   13th  July, 

1836 

4. 

Robert  Nesbit,  . 

Bombay,  15th  Dec, 

1826 

5. 

David  Ewart,  D.D., 

Calcutta,        July, 

1834 

6. 

Wm.  SinclairMackay,D.D 

, Calcutta,         May, 

1831 

7. 

James  Mitchell, 

.  Poona,    .         Aug., 

1822 

8. 

John  Braidwood,  M.A., 

.  Madras,   6th  Aug., 

1840 

9. 

John  Wilson,  D.D.,F.R.S. 

,  Bombay,  24th  June, 

1828 

10. 

Alex.  Duff,  D.D.,  LL.D., 

Calcutta,  1 2th  Aug., 

1829 

Died  in  India,  1st  Sept.,       1847 

M  at  Edin.,  22nd  March,  1853 

II  in  India,  25th  March,  1855 

„  in  India,  27th  July,     1855 

n  in  India,  9th  Sept.,       1860 

H  at  Edin.,  Sept.,              1865 

„  in  India,  28th  March,  1866 

,1  at  Edin.,  30th  April,    1875 

11  in  India,  1st  Dec,        1875 

1,  in  England,  12th  Feb.,  1878 


N'ame. 

3.  Daniel  Edward,    . 

4.  Robert  Smith,  D.D., 

11.  C.  Schwartz,  D.D.,  , 

12.  John  Duncan,  D.D.^ 

13.  W.  O.  Allan,  K.D., 


TO  THE   JEWS. 

station.               Removed  to  Ordained. 
Jassy,       .         .  Breslau,       11th  Mar.,  1841 

Pesth,      .         .  Corsock,  April,  1842 

Constantinople,  Amsterdam,  1843  Died  24thAug.,  1S70 

Pesth,      .         .  Professor,  1836     ,i     26th  Feb.,  1870 

Syria,       .         .  retired,  1842     n     8th  Jan.,    1885 


At  the  Disruption,  the  Glasgow  Missionary  Society  had  a  stafiE  of  Missionaries  engaged 
in  South  Africa  in  connection  with  the  Church  of  Scotland.  In  1844  the  Society,  with  the 
whole  of  their  Missionaries,  joined  the  Free  Church — the  property  being  at  the  same  time 
handed  over.     The  list  was  as  follows  : — 

Name.                          Station.  Ordained. 

14.  Rev.  John  Bennie,  .  29th  May,   1821  Died  in  South  Africa,  9th  Feb.,  1869 

15.  James  Laing,  .         .  Burnshill,  3rd  Aug.,     1830  n     at  Burnshill,    28th  Jan.,     1872 

16.  Wm.  Govan,    .         .  Lovedale,  21st  July,    1840  m     in  Scotland,    30th  April,    1875 

17.  John  Ross,  M.A.,    .  Pirie,  5th  March,  1823  n     at  Pirie,             7th  June,    1878 


APPENDIX    II. 


LIST   OF  DISRUPTION   MANUSCRIPTS. 

I.  St.  David's,  Glasgow.     Eev.  J.  G.  Lorimer,  D.D. 

II.  See  under  xxxv. 

III.  Muirkirk.     Rev.  S.  W.  Reid. 

IV.  St.  Leonard's,  Perth.     Kirk-Session. 
V.  Stanley.     Rev,  W.  Mather. 

VI.  Gordon.     Rev.  J.  Fraser. 
VII.  Nenthorn.     Rev.  R.  Lang. 
VIII.  Muthil.     Rev.  W.  Douglas. 

IX.  Torosay,  Mull.     J.  Middleton,  Esq.,  Elder. 

X.  Huntly  and  Kirkwall.     Rev.  W.  Sinclair. 

XI.  Errol.     Rev.  J.  Grierson,  D.D. 
XII.  Cleish.      Rev.  W.  W.  Duncan. 

XIII.  Braco,  &c.     Rev.  S.  Grant. 

XIV.  Roslin.     Rev.  D.  Brown. 
XV.   Deskford.     Rev.  G.  Innes. 

XVI.  Ruthwell.     Rev.  H.  Duncan,  D.D.,  and  Mrs.  Duncan. 

XVII.  Gartly.     Rev.  J.  Robertson. 

XVIII.  Walls.     Rev.  J.  Elder. 

XIX.  Wanlockhead.     Rev.  J.  Hastings. 
XX.  Farr.     Rev.  D.  Mackenzie. 
XXI.  Collace.     Rev.  Andrew  A.  Bonar,  D.D. 
xxil.   Innerleithen.     Rev.  J.  Montgomery. 

XXIII.  Kirkbean.     Rev.  R.  Gibson. 

XXIV.  East  Church,  Aberdeen.     Rev.  J.  Foote,  D.D. 
XXV.  Madderty  and  Keiss.      Rev.  Thomas  Gun. 

XXVI.   Leslie  and  Premnay.      Rev.  R.  M'Combie. 

XXVII.  Woodside,  Aberdeen.     Rev.  R.  Forbes. 
XXVIII.  Muckhart.     Rev.  J.  Thomson. 

XXIX.  Kilsyth.     Rev.  W.  Burns,  D.D, 
XXX.  Luss.     Rev.  Neil  Stewart. 

XXXT.  Lesmahagow.     Rev.  A.  B.  Parker,  D.D. 
XXXII.  Forgan. 

xxxiii.  Humbie,  &c.     Rev.  J.  Dodds. 
XXXIV.  Monkton.     Rev.  J.  M'Farlan. 

xxxv.  Kirkcaldy  and  Galston.     Rev.  R.  Macindoe. 

XXXVI.  Ochiltree.     Rev.  J.  Patrick. 

XXXVII.  Grangemouth  and  Flisk.     Rev.  J.  W.  Taylor. 
XXXVIII.  Methlick.     Rev.  J.  Mennie,  A.M. 

XXXIX.  Stevenston.     Rev.  Dr.  Landsborough. 

XL.  Aberdalgie  and  Dunning.     Rev.  C.  Stewart. 
XLi.  Ayr.     Rev.  W.  Grant. 
iLil.  Catrine  and  Johnstone.     Rev.  W.  Hutchison. 


LIST   OF   DISIIUPTION    MANUSCRIPTS.  815 

XLIII.  Denholm.     Eev.  J.  M'Clymont. 
XLiv.  Fochabers.     Rev.  D.  Dewar. 
XLV.  Largo.     Rev.  R.  Lundin  Brown. 
XLVI.  Sheildaig.     Eev.  C.  Mackenzie. 
XLVii.  Strathfillan.     Rev.  A.  Mackinnon. 
XLViir.  Symington.     Rev.  G.  Orr. 
XLIX.  Moy.     Rev.  Th.  M'Lauchlan,  LL.D. 

L.  Westruther  and  Elie.     Eev.  W.  Wood,  A.M. 
LI.  Auldearn. 

Lii.  Statement  by  A.  Kerr,  Esq. 
LIU.  Forgandenny.     Rev.  James  Drummond. 
Liv.  St.  Andrews.     Rev.  J.  Thomson,  Leitli. 
LV.  Blairgowrie,  &c.     Eev.  Dr.  M'Donald,  and  Friends. 
LVL  Duirness.     Rev.  Eric  Findlater. 
LVIL  Yester.     Rev.  Dr.  Thomson,  Paisley. 
LviiL  Drumblade.     Eev.  G.  Ramsay  Davidson,  D.D. 
Lix.  Houndwood,  &c.     Rev.  A.  Spence. 
LX.  Aberfeldy.     Eev.  D.  E.  Clark. 
LXL  Monzie.     Rev.  J.  R.  Omond. 
LXH.  Kilmodan.     Rev.  Duncan  M'Lean. 
LXiiL  Kenmore.     Rev.  A.  Sinclair. 
LXiv.  Larbert.     Rev.  B.  F.  Greig,  of  Kinfauns. 
LXV.  Prestonkirk.     Rev.  J.  Thomson. 

LXVi.  Aberdeen.     Notes  by  Francis  Edmond,  Esq.,  Advocate. 
LXVir.  Fearn  (Tain).     Rev.  J.  M'Donald. 
LXVlii.  Wanlockhead,  &c.     Rev.  D.  Landsborough. 
LXIX.  Tain.     Rev.  J.  Grant. 
LXX.   Braemar.     Eev.  F.  M'Rae. 
LXXL  Rothesay,  &c.     Eev.  Dr.  Elder. 
LXXII.  Comrie.     S.  Garment,  Esq. 
LXXiir.  Erskine.     The  Eev.  Dr.  Stewart,  Leghorn. 
LXXIV.   Personal  Reminiscences.     Rev.  Dr.  Cairns,  Melbourne. 
LXXV.  Personal  Reminiscences.     Rev.  Dr.  Nicolson,  Hobart  Town, 
LXXVI.   Dunedin.     Eev.  Mr.  Bannerman. 
Lxxvii.  Burntisland.     Eev.  Dr.  Couper. 
LXXvni.  Presbytery  of  Forfar.     Rev.  D.  Fergusson. 
LXXix.  Skye,  Notes  on.     Eev.  A.  Eraser,  Kirkhill. 
Lxxx.  Resolis.     Mr.  G.  Macculloch. 
LXXXi.  Ballantrae.     Eev.  D.  Landsborough. 
LXXXiL  Torosay.     Rev.  J.  A.  Fletcher,  Hamilton. 
Lxxxiu.  Kilcalmonell.     jMr.  Walker,  Canada. 
Lxxxiv.  Strathbogie.     Eev.  Thomas  Bain,  Coupar-Angus. 
LXXXV.  Glenisla.     Eev.  Thomas  Bain,  Coupar- Angus. 
LXXXVL  Glenisla.     J.  Mackenzie,  Esq.,  Alrick. 
Lxxxvii.  Laggan.     Eev.  D.  Shaw. 
LXXXVIH.  Portpatrick.     Eev.  A.  Urquhart. 


o 


13       C 


p    p 
So «« 


^ 


to 

.a 

o 
02 


I— I 

Q 

Ph 
<3 


«H»-*nMH'-**nN'       MW-**-*-f«WHei 


.^'       '^' o6"A' !>-■  T^'        i^COC^eM-^         OOSOiOTj*         OOrHOi^OS         COOOr-tOJ         OOOCOCO 
t^  :^^  rH  CO  <-<  '^  Ci  O  O  t^  CO  O  O  (>J  (M  C^  COrHCOt-ua  C5  O -<*<  O  ■*  OOG^OSt*-^ 

W         -i^CiCOt^O         O-^C-lOO         OCO'4<COCO        l^-COt^OCO         CSO-^UOO         i-HCOC^OiT-l 


(X>  c<i  o  ;^:l  '^jf 

co'':01>^0  f>r 
CO  C5  ^  r^lr- 
CO  !M  CO  CM  C^ 


CO  CO  GO  (N  <N         CO  G^  CO  CO  CO 


|>-C<I  t-.0  CO 
rH  Oi  CO  CO  (N 

CO  C5  "^  O  CD 

cT  o''i>r  co"  ^o 

T-(  CO  CO  '^  ''tf 
coco  CO  CO  CO 


OCOOCOrH  t-ICOCO-^'tH  lOGO'^OlG^  GOrHCOihi— t 


COCOCOOO"^         -^ -^  Tti  Tf  o 


TH  t^  -rjt  lO  CO 
■<^  CO  L.O  o  t* 

CO  o  ':CJ  ^ 


CDOCOOOO        ^COt-OCO        OiHOOOO 

t^  uo  1^  lo  o      lo  CO  b- lO  CO      ^-.  to  GO  CO  o 


r-<  1-H  O 


-"     -J^i-iGO         OOCOOC- 
t-- CO  -^  r- r-1  CO  rH  CS 


C3(MCO  tOO'-'.-iGO         OOCOOO         Ol:^"* 


C3  "*  CO  CO  O 

—  1:^ -i!*!  lO  I— 

CO^i-*i-»  O 

t^o'V^co 


COC5  OOO 

COlOCOOS  C^ 

CO  '^  CO  o  r^ 
o  r-  o  -^  Ci 
to  O  00  t-^'>i, 
lo  eo'co  eo""^ 


iO  »0  GOOOt* 

CO  ^^  O  .-<  HI  '    lO 

O  CO  -I-  C5  i-H  '^ 

■^  CO^X  O  O^  co^ 

b-T  CO  CO  o"  i-T  oT 


O  O  -"Ji  CO  i-H  o 

'^  -*  i-t  CO  CO  t-t 

r-i  tH  i-H  I-* 

1^  C-]  1^  G^3  to  0> 

-^  O  O  Ci  O  CO 

CO  CO^  lO  I-H  i-H^^b-^ 

o  ob-Tcooo^ 

■CO  '<3<  CO  lO  "*  CM 


i-(C00JCO:0         -^CO-^O^         CDCOrHOaO 
b*C0Tj(O-*  iH  1-H  no  0>  lO         I^  CO  lO  Oi  i-l 


COOi  »0  O  CO 


C-li-H-1<COQO         C0C0Oa)O 


C-ICOCOCOCO         -^COCOCOCO         COCO'^COCO 


hocoua  U3  CO 

i-toa  i-it*co 

OJ  <MO>Oi-4 
rH  CO  --I  G^J  -* 

Cq^  -rJH  CO  -*<^  I-H 

b-To'-o't-TcT 


■^  lOC^  t*rH 

00  "^  CO  uO  CO 


CO  O  lO  CO  "«** 
05  CO  00  O  O 


U3  O  LO  U3  lO 


CO  ^  CO  O  O    i-H  O  ■*  1-H  iH    CO  I-H  Tjl  O  lO    CO  CO  t^  J-H  <3> 

.—I  T-\  I-H   l-(  T-H  I-" 

iOrHi-H-«^<N  COrHCOrHCO         i-tOOlOCO         t^b^OOi-t"* 


cor~  t 


I  lO  CO 
•  O  CO 


CI   COOI>.iO^   oot— ooco 

CO    CO  CO  '*  I-H  Oi    CO  O  O  CO  CO 

1-h"  cTt^  oo":d  00  \Qia<:o<S^ 


CO  CO  O  GO  O 


O  CO  CO  O  CO    OS  CO  b- Ci  CD 


-*  i-t  GO  00  CO 

OS  CO  1^  Ci  <"* 
O^COCO_-w^' 


C5  b-  OS  0>  iH 

CS  00  CO  CS  b- 

r-  b-  -o  o  t^ 

■^  O  Ci  O  Ci 


TftOCSCOb-         lOOC-lOOCO        COCOt^'^CO         ■*j*'«*i-HCOCCI 
C-ltOCOrHOO        iCCOr^XCO        OS-^COb-LO        co^cocoos 


O  OCO  lO  00 

oi  ^  'X)  a  \a 


CO '^  •-' b- OS         CO  CO  UO  ijO  CO         t^  O  CO  CO -^         CO  CO  O  lO  o 


■*i-Hi— '  CSOi— iCOb-         COi-HC 


CD       o  CO  CO  i 


O^i-HCOO  i-HOOi-tCO  GOi-HrHCDb-         iOb-"^C^00 


00  "*  CO  CO  irt 

O  O  uO  CO  '^ 
CO  CO  CO  I-H  C^l 


0-*  ^-coco 

■>*  CO  O  lO  '^ 

CO  CO  Irt  1-H  00 

CS  CS  CS  CO  CO 
O  OOb^  O  O 


OuOCO"^  CSCSCSCOCO 


COGOt^t^OS         OS  iH  CO  00  rH 
iC  O  CO  CO  CO        CO  CO  <N  CO -^ 


OCOGO(NCO         fHrHOOO 

f~t  ,-1      ^  ^ 

O5C0OSC0OS        GO  CO  00  <N  CO 


OiaoOCOO         «OC0^r-(t^ 
O  I-H  00  OS  CO  CO '^i*  CO  CO  lO 


OOCOOO         OSC0-*iO-<**  OOSOCOi-H  CO'^rH-^CO  ^COOl 


CO  b-  CO  r-H  O         b- ■*  b- O  CO 

uo  '^  CO  J:^  uO_       '"    "     ■' 

b-r-«#"cr OS  CO 


CO  CS         CO  OS  ' 
;  r-  CO       CO  b-  c 


)  C-1  '^  CO  CO  ' 


OS  tJ<  1-H  liO  1-H 


^  w  w.^  .-1  --.         *-    V  ^  ^-  ..„         -.  ^ -.  . —  CO  00  GO  X"  CO 

^        (Dt^b-b-b-       r*I>COt^0O        00  CO  CO  OS  05        OS  O  O  1-H  O        ""^  i"!  "^  ^  ^ 


t- O  CO  I-H  O         00  iO  (N  I-H  O         I-H  OS -^  O  CO         OS  CO  00  t^  1-H 
COOOCOOOtO  COOSCOrHd  Tht^GOOO'*  lOOb-rHGO 


■^  CO  CO  CO  CO 


01  CO  CO  lO  CO    t-  GO  CO  G-1  G-1    CI  G-3  lO  CO  O 


OOOSOt-'^iCO         t^-^G^ICOiJO         -^i-hO 


1-HCOt-HOCO         0S00Tt4OC0         COCOb-'^C^         CO^CDOO^CO^b^ 

_r      cooc^oToo      cT  co'co'co'os'     b-Trn^irT'^co'      r^rc>Scoi-^ 

ca         l>.0O00COCO         OSCSOSOiO         Oi-HrHi— ICO         i-HrHi-HrHCO 


O  CO        iC  C^  CO 


CO  CO  CO  --0  C-1 

iC  C^  CO  CO  CO 
O  ■* '^  '^\'^ 

os"os"co 


OiOOi-HCQCO 
1-H 

oooeo  lAb. 

I-H  1-H 

CO  -^  -^  O  rH 

CO  b-  I-H  CD  I-H 
C»b-b-i-H  OS 

cTco  irT  CO 


^ 


b-OOOOCOCO         OSCSOiOiO         OrHrHi— ICO         i-HrHi-HrHCO         COCOGOCO"^  ^•«#-^«*00 


a 

M 

-i 

a 

rH 

<u 

O 

r-4cir+#ed^«M'H«       .-4ri -*-?•-»?)-+*- 


O  O  CO  o  o 

TjfOS  O  CO  CD 

rH  IC  CO  O  1-H 
CO  CO  'tM  CD  00 
iC  O  TjH  o  OS 

b^co  co"'«t<'co 

OS  CO  Tjl  CO  '^ 


T-H  C^  I-H  00  CO 
tH  CO  -<i  GO  CO 


-tiwH"       F^f-^n 


O  CO  OS  00  O         O  I-H  1-H  00  ■*         CDr-rHiOiH 
■^JIOCOCOGO         OdOO'^iOt*        COOO^rtCOCO 


OOb-OOiO 
O  "*  1-H 

CO  OS  O 
CO'i-H 


O  "*  1-H  O 
"S  I-H 


00  o  CO  :d  OS 


lOOSOOcq  -^ 
UO  CO  rH  OS  rH 
CO  UO  40  OOCO 

no  ccTco  00  oT 


I-H  CO  CO  OS  OS 
CO  CO  --O  b-  1-1 
CO  O^OS^GO^OS^ 
r-TuO  CD  CO  OT 


COOOrH  cot* 
COO  A  OS  tH 

coiob-oos 

1-1  CO  CO  O  lO  CD 


U3  lO  CO  CO  CO        CO  CO -^  ■**  ■**<         COCOCOTh"^         t1(  O -^  *0  O         W5  Tt<  lO  b^  lO 


t~OOU5COO         CO  O  rH  rH  I-H 
OS  >C  OS  GO  lO         TjfOSCOOOCD 


CO  CI  O  iC  1-H 

O  O'  O  rH    O 
Jt-  O  O  C-]  ''^ 

Tioco 


.  -:  1  ':o  rH      o  O'  o  rH  o      oo  oi  ao  x-  '^ 
-  OS  CO  o       " -"  "' 

.  .i  coco" GO* 

CO  CO  CO  GOC^J 


00  ift  O  i-O  >* 

W5  O  iiO  O  O 

--    '     O  'O  '^ 

-CS^CO^ 

c^'o  CO  lO  cT 


1-H  1-H  rH  UO  I-H 

■^  CO  CO  "O  CO 
CD  1-HOS  b^r-l 

t-  o^oo^o^os 

OCDCOV 


OSiO'^COCD  «0b-rHC0i-H 

ot^cococo      -^uat^b^oo 


t^  OS  rH  f-  OS  00  rH  m  OS  CO 

■^  -^  b-  CO  OS  -^  lO  b- b- OS 

CJrHb-OCO^  COOOrHQOrH 
CO         r-I"cOC0  Ci        CO" 


■»*'  inCOb-Tco'or  o'r-TcoCO'^  urTcOb-COOS  O  rH  CO  CO  ■»*»  bOCOt^COqs  O  rH  CO  CO  ^ 

53  1^;^^^^  lOiOiboO  irSLOOOiO  COCOCOCDCO  «DC0CDCDC0  l>.bpb^b;.b;- 

CO  -ioCDb^ob  ClOrHCICO  -4<iAcOt^CO  OSOrHCOCO  -^lOOb-GO  ^^Pr'S!?!^ 

^  ZJ^^t,,^  -^irtioioiio  uTioiooio  iccDcoco^  35^^5255  ^^^;::^^^ 

w  a^coScoOT  o:i  rx:) 'jy  rfi  :r)  cftcococooo  oooooooooo  oocococoao  cocococooo 


APPENDIX    IV. 


Since  the  Preceding  List  was  drawn  up  as  at  1st  March,   1890, 
the  following  ministers  have  died. 


Kame. 


Place. 


Removed  to.      Ordained. 


Died. 


1. 

2. 
3. 

Andrew  Urquhart,     . 
George  Ramsay  Davidson, 
D.D.,      .         .         .        . 
William  Alexander,   . 

Portpatrick, 

Lady  Glenorchy 's 
Duntocher, 

4. 

John  Baillie, 

Fogo,  .         .         .  Engla 

5. 

Alexander  Spence,  D.D.,    . 

Aberdeen,    . 

6. 

7. 

GeorgeFviltonKnight.M.A 
Alexander  Wilson,     . 

,  Wemyss, 
Bridgeton,    . 

8. 

John  Tsdale, 

Glasgow, 

9. 

Alexander  Beith,  D.D.,      . 

Stirling, 

10. 

Alexander  0.  Laird, . 

Dundee, 

11. 

John  J.  Bonar,  D.D., 

Greenock,     . 

12. 

Neil  Brodie, 

Pollokshaws, 

13. 

Alexander  M'Pherson, 

Meigle, 

14. 

John  Reid  Omond,  D.D.,  . 

Monzie, 

1832     10th  March,       1890 


1828 

17  th  May, 

1890 

1838 

2nd  June, 

1890 

June, 

1890 

1837 

30th  August, 

1890 

1832 

12th  February 

1891 

1841 

23rd  February 

1891 

1843 

29  th  March, 

1891 

1822 

11th  May, 

1891 

1833 

20th  May, 

1891 

1835 

7th  July, 

1891 

184-2 

10th  March, 

1892 

1841 

17th  June, 

1892 

1836 

4th  July, 

1892 

The  FOLLOWING  Pre-Disruption  Ministers  still  Survive.     The  Names 

ARE    given    in    the    OrDER    OF    THEIR    OrDINATION. 


Name. 


Place. 


Removed  to. 


Ordained. 


1.  John  Thomson, 

2.  W.  Ross  Taylor,  D.D., 

3.  John  Wright, . 

4.  William  Nixon,  D.D., 

5.  David  Thorburn.  D.D.. 

6.  John  Fairbairn, 

7.  Hugh  M'Leod,  D.D., 

8.  John  Laird,  D.D.,  . 


Shettleston, 
Thurso,       . 
Alloa, 
Montrose,  . 
South  Leith, 
Greenlaw,  . 
Logie-Easter, 
Inverkeillor, 


Aberdeen, 


Cape  Breton, 
Cupar, 


25th  September,  1829 
28th  November,  1829 
24th  August,  1830 
14th  June,  1831 

14th  March,  1833 
30th  October,  1833 
28th  November,  1833 
19th  March,         1835 


816a  DISRUPTION    MINISTERS,    SURVIVING. 

Name.  Place.  Removed  to. 


Ordained. 


9.  John  Ainslie,  D.P., 

10.  James  Yuill,    . 

11.  James  M'Cosh,  D.D., 

12.  David  S.  Ferguson, . 

13.  W.  Chalmers,  D.D., 

14.  W.  Grant,  D.D.,      . 

15.  David  Brown,  D.D., 

16.  Alexander  Gunn,     . 

17.  Alexander  Moody  Stuart, 

18.  R.  Macdonald,  D.D., 

19.  P.  Borrowman, 

20.  Donald  Fergiisson,  . 

21.  Thomas  Brown,  D.D., 

22.  George  R.  Kennedy, 

23.  John  Ingram,  M.A., 

24.  A.  A.  Bonar,  D.D., 

25.  John  Baxter,  D.D., 

26.  Gustavus  Aird,  D.  D., 

27.  J.  W.  Taylor,  D.D., 

28.  William  Watt, 

29.  John  Montgomery,  M.A 

30.  William  Laughton,  D.D. 

31.  WilHam  Ferrie,  M.A., 

32.  W.  Brown  Clark,  D.D., 

33.  David  Paton,  . 

34.  Thomas  Addis,  D.D., 

35.  Alexander  Rankin, 

36.  William  G.  Blaikie,  D.D 

37.  Robert  Reid,  M.A.,. 

38.  W.  R.  Moncur, 


D.D. 


Dirleton, 

Peterhead, 

Brechin, 

Strachan, 

Dailly, 

Tenandry, 

Principal, 

Watten, 

St.  Luke's,  Edin 

Blairgowrie, 

Glencairn, 

Dunnichen 

Kinneff, 

Dornoch, 

Unst, 

Collace, 

Dundee, 

Croich, 

Grangemouth, 

Bucklyvie, 

Arbroath,  . 

Greenock,  . 

Anstruther, 

Half  Morton, 

Chapelton, 

Morningside, 

E.  Strathaven, 

Drumblade, 

Glasgow,    . 

Botriphnie, 


St.  Andrews, 

Princeton, 

London, 
Australia, 

Leith, 

Leven, 
Edinburgh, 


Glasgow, 

Blairgowrie, 

Creich, 

Flisk, 

Norrieston, 

Innerleithen, 

America, 

Quebec, 

Fettercairn, 


Prof.,  New  Coll., 
Banchory-Ternan 
Lifif. 


June, 
3rd  December, 
]  7th  December, 
10th  June, 
5th  August, 
15  th  September, 
17th  November, 
26th  April, 

June, 
15tli  June, 
25th  August, 
25th  August, 
1 4th  September, 
2Sth  November, 
14th  June, 
20th  September, 
5th  November, 
27th  January, 
7  th  May, 
20  th  May, 

June, 
18th  July, 
18th  July, 
5th  September, 
11th  February, 
17th  December, 
21st  April, 
22nd  September, 
,22nd  December, 


1835 
1835 
1835 
1836 
1836 
1836 
1836 
1837 
1837 
1837 
1837 
18.37 
1837 
1837 
1838 
1838 
1838 
1839 
1839 
1839 
1839 
1839 
1839 
1839 
1841 
1841 
1842 
1842 
1842 
1843 


Edinburgh,  I5th  October,  1892. 


—  817  — 


INDEX  TO  NAMES  OF  PERSONS  AND  PLACES. 


Abercromby,  Dr.,  460. 

Aberdeen,  the  Earl  ot,  generous  gift  of 
sites,  249,  251,  253,  365. 

Aberdeen,  interdict  on  the  use  of  the 
Parish  Churclies  of,  65  ;  the  triple 
Church  at,  284  ;  strong  support  by 
its  laity  to  the  Disruption  movement, 
461 ;  its  " Trinity 5Moa(:Jsac?'a  Church" 
seized,  490  ;  Woodside  congregation 
ejected,  494  ;  case  of  Union  Church, 
495 ;  Bonaccord Church,  495  ;  increase 
of  prayer-meetings  there  since  the 
Disruption,  750. 

Aberdour,  the  people  work  gratuitously 
at  the  Free  Church,  271 ;  Claverhouse 
Tower  at,  392. 

Aberfeldy,  Lord  Breadalbane's  liber- 
ality at,  467. 

Aberlemno,  the  Free  Church  congrega- 
tion of,  641. 

Abernethy,  of  Bolton,  death  in  the 
manse  of  the  Rev.  J.,  139. 

Adkins,  Eev.  Mr.,  of  Southampton,  536. 

Africa,  South,  the  Mission  to,  510  ; 
Sabbath-school  contribution  for  Love- 
dale,  1870,  727  ;  Sabbath-school  con- 
tribution for  waggons  in  1876,  727  ; 
steamer  and  cloth  sent  to  Living- 
stonia  by  Sabbath-school  children, 
1879,  727. 

Agnew,  Sir  Andrew,  of  Lochnaw,  at 
the  Edinburgh  meeting  in  1843,  462; 
his  contribution  to  church-building 
at  Sheuchan,  489  ;  at  the  Glasgow 
Assembly,  1843,  714. 

Ainslie,  Mr.,  Commissioner  to  the  Earl 
of  Moray,  darkens  the  windows  of 
the  Free  Church  manse  at  Aberdour, 
392. 

Aird,  Rev.  Gustavus,  Criech,  493. 

Aitken,  of  Dyke,  sacrifices  at  the 
Disruption  of  the  Rev.  Mark.  178. 


Aldcorn,  Dr.,  on  injury  to  health  by 
site-refusing,  446  ;  reference  to,  653. 

Alexander,  Dr.  Lindsay,  offers  the  use 
of  his  place  of  worship  to  the  Rev. 
C.  J.  Brown,  211. 

Alexander,  Claud,  Esq.,  of  Balloch- 
myle,  432 ;  at  the  Edinburgh  meeting 
in  1843,  462. 

Alexander,  Rev.  Mr.,  of  Chelsea,  483. 

Alexander,  Dr.,  of  Kirkcaldy,  deputed 
to  Canada,  562. 

Alness,  revival  there  in  1840,  10. 

America,  Free  Church  deputation  to 
Churches  of,  1843,  547  ;  cordial  pro- 
posal from  a  meeting  in,  549. 

Anderson,  of  Kippen,  trials  and  death 
of  the  Rev.  William,  156. 

Anderson,  Rev.  Mr.,  Madras,  his  letter 
to  Dr.  Duff,  508. 

Anderson,  General,  R.A.,  530. 

Andrews,  Mr.,  Mayor  of  Southampton, 
537,  538. 

Applecross,  Ross-shire,  preaching  at, 
1845,  660;  site  obtained  in,  1848, 
660,  66L 

Applegarth,  meeting  held  in  1843  at 
Dinwiddle,  in  the  parish  of,  09  ;  re- 
markable incident  of  a  "curling" 
game  at,  757. 

Arbirlot,  accommodation  provided  for 
the  minister  of,  179 ;  effect  of  the 
Disruption  on  the  people  of,  200. 

Arbroath,  seizure  of  Ladyloan  Church 
at,  1845-48,  497. 

Ardmillan,  Lord,  Judge  of  the  Court 
of  Session,  460  ;  on  the  abolition  of 
Patronage  not  conceding  Spiritual 
Independence,  789. 

Ardnamurchan  visited  by  Dr.  Begg  after 
the  Disruption,  373. 

Ardoch,  interdict  on  burial  in  the 
cliurchyard  of,  367;  its  quoad  sacra 
church,  491 ;  spiritual  concern  mani- 

3g 


818 


INDEX. 


fested  at,  during  the  Disruption  time, 
749. 

Argyll,  the  Duke  of,  at  the  Edinburgh 
Meeting  in  1843,  461;  on  the  aboli- 
tion of  Patronage  not  conceding 
Spiritual  Independence,  789. 

Argyleshire,  "floating"  congregation 
from,  656. 

Arnot,  Rev.  William,  replies  to  Prin- 
cipal M'Farlane's  motion  to  expel  the 
quoad  sacra  ministers  from  the  Pres- 
bytery of  Glasgow,  80 ;  a  deputy  to 
Canadian  Churches,  562. 

Arran,  anecdote  of  the  self-denial  of  a 
snuff-taker  in,  304 ;  "Separatists"  in, 
677. 

Arthur,  Miss,  gives  a  church  and  manse 
at  Markinch,  269. 

Ashley,  Lord  (Earl  of  Shaftesbury),  his 
Bill  to  abolish  Post-office  Sabbath 
work,  1850,  715. 

Assynt,  Sutherlandshire,  a  specimen  of 
"The  Men"  in,  671. 

Auchterarder  case,  21,  30,  47. 

Auld,  Rev.  Dr.,  Clerk  of  the  Presbytery 
of  Ayr,  518. 

Australia,  the  Disruption  how  regarded 
in,  567. 

Ayr,  provision  for  wor-ship  after  the 
Disruption  at,  219. 

Ayrshire,  simple  way  of  settling  the 
controversy  by  a  plain  man  of,  166  ; 
proprietors  in,  their  refusal  of  sites, 
473  ;  evangelistic  meetings  in,  1844, 
636. 

B 

Baillieston,  Sabbath-school  contribution 
for  iron  church  at,  1874,  727. 

Bain,  Rev.  Mr.,  at  Glenisla,  1843,  587. 

Bain,  Niel,  from  Assynt,  one  of  "  The 
Men,"  671. 

Bain,  Rev.  Mr.,  of  Coupar-Angus, 
reminiscences  by,  763. 

Bain,  Rev.  Mr.,  of  Chapel  Garioch,  his 
testimony  to  permanent  effect  of  the 
revival  movements  of  1860-61,  784. 

Baird,  of  Cockbumspath,  sacrifices 
made  in  1S43  by  the  Rev.  Andrew, 
183. 

Balogh,  Prof.  Francis,  University  of 
Debreczin,  659. 

Ballater,  Deeside,  site  refused  at,  411  ; 
hardships  of  its  people,  412. 

Ballantrae,  454-456. 

Banchory -Ternan,  provision  for  wor- 
ship in  1843  at,  210. 

Bannatyne,  Rev.  Mr.,  New  Cumnock, 
statement  by,  006. 

Bannerman,  Rev.  Mr.,  at  Dunedin,N.Z., 
1854,  570. 


Barbour,  Mr.  George  F.,  Bonskeid,  dia- 
tinguished  as  a  friend  to  the  Sabbath- 
school  teachers,  1882,  724. 

Barra,  island  of,  reference  to,  697. 

Barrhead,  Paisley,  its  congregation 
ejected,  1843,  494. 

Barry,  accommodation  after  the  Dis- 
ruption of  the  minister  of,  177. 

Basle,  Switzerland,  address  from  minis- 
ters of,  1843,  551. 

Bath,  success  of  deputation  at,  527. 

Bayne,  Rev.  John,  Canada,  561. 

Beecham,  Mr.  John,  536. 

Begg,  view  of  the  Stewarton  case 
by  the  Rev.  Dr.  James,  44  ;  his 
anecdote  of  a  servant  dismissed  for 
entertaining  a  preacher,  365  ;  his 
visit  to  Ardnamurchaji,  373  ;  and 
to  Strontian,  374  ;  on  disputed 
quoad  sacra  churches,  484 ;  his 
remarks  on  the  Establishment's  pro- 
cedure regarding  these  churches,  486 ; 
mentions  a  curious  quoad  sacra  law- 
case,  496  ;  tells  anecdote  of  a  meet- 
ing at  Gravesend,  526 ;  his  statement 
as  to  sympathy  in  England,  527  ; 
deputed  to  Canadian  Churches,  562  ; 
gives  an  account  of  American  enthu- 
siasm, 565  ;  at  a  non-intrusion  meet- 
ing at  Dumfries,  1840,  617 ;  in 
Applecross,  Ross-shire,  1845,  660. 

Beith,  Rev.  Dr.  Alexander,  of  Stirling, 
496  ;  referred  to,  538  ;  his  remark 
on  quoad  sacra  seizures,  497 ;  his 
activity  for  supply  to  the  Colonies, 
560;  his  notes  about  the  "Floating 
Church  "  in  Loch  Sunart,  655-57. 

Belfast,  Irish  Presbyterian  Assembly 
at,  1843,  544,  545. 

Bellie,  rapid  erection  of  a  wooden 
church  at,  220. 

Benbecula,  The  Breadalbane  schooner 
at,  653  ;  educational  work  in,  by  the 
Glasgow  "  Ladies'  Association,"  688. 

Benholm,  Kincardineshire,  meetings 
for  revival  of  religion  at,  1842-43, 
765,  770 ;  its  Free  Church  opened, 
770. 

Bethune,  Mrs.,  of  Blebo,  Fifeshire,  463. 

Berriedale,  provision  made  in  1843  for 
worship  at,  214 ;  sufferings  of  the 
minister  of,  185. 

Bickersteth,  Rev.  Edward,  referred  to, 
534. 

Binney,  Rev.  Dr.,  536. 

Black,  Rev.  Mr.,  Kilsyth,  his  account 
of  fresh  revival  movement  there, 
1860,  776. 

Blackie,  Messrs.,  publishers,  Glasgow, 
461. 


INDEX. 


819 


Blnckie,  Prof.  J.  S.,  of  Edinburgh,  his 
characterisation  of  "  The  Men  "  in 
the  Highlands,  675. 

Blair,  General  Hunter,  of  Dunskey, 
478,  479. 

Blair,  Mis3  Hunter,  480,  481. 

Blairingone,  Auchterarder,  its  quoad 
sacra  church,  491. 

Blairgowrie,  the  tent  and  first  services 
at,  230. 

Bohemia,  Mission  to  the  Jews  in,  558  ; 
Sabbath  -  school  contribution  for, 
1878,  727. 

Bolton  Parish  Church  preached  vacant, 
122,  139. 

Bombay,  501  ;  Missionary  difficulties 
at,  in  1843,  507. 

Bonar,  Rev.  Dr.  A.  A.,  his  testimony 
to  a  revival  at  CoUace  in  1840,  10  ; 
his  experience  at  Collace,  17  ;  tes- 
timony found  by  him  on  the  blank 
leaf  of  a  Bible,  166  ;  assists  at  Com- 
munion in  Glenisla,  1843,  587  ;  at 
Ferryden,  1846,  773  ;  at  Finnieston, 
1860-61,  779. 

Bonar,  Rev.  Dr.  John,  his  reasons  for 
coming  out  in  1843,  145 ;  his 
' '  reasons  for  religious  people  "  quoted, 
196  ;  set  apart  to  take  charge  of  Col- 
onial work,  571  ;  his  report  in  1849, 
571,  572 ;  striking  pre-Disruption 
sermon  by,  at  Torwood,  1843,  619  ; 
salutary  influence  of  Disruption  in 
his  parish,  746-47  ;  character  of  his 
preaching,  749. 

Bonai-,  James,  Esq.,  W.S.,  biography 
of,  460. 

Borrodale,  Glen,  The  Breadalbane 
schooner  at,  653. 

Borrowman,  Rev.  P.,  benumbed  by  cold 
while  preaching,  441. 

Bothwell,  the  effect  of  the  Disruption 
(in  the  people  of,  201. 

Botriphnie,  traces  of  Mr.  Campbell's 
ministry  at,  9. 

Bouverie,  Mr.,  M.P.  for  Kilmarnock, 
obtains  a  Sites'  Enquiry  Committee 
of  the  House  of  Commons,  411. 

Bowden,  provision  for  worship  in  1843 
made  at,  213. 

Bracadale,  Skye,  preaching  at,  1842, 
658. 

Braco,  favourable  weather  in  1843  at, 
225. 

BraLO,  Perthshire,  no  proper  site  to  be 
got  there  at  the  Disruption,  457  ; 
effect  of  Disruption  at,  639. 

Braemar,  451  ;  beneficial  influence  of 
the  Disruption  at,  640-41. 

Breadalbane,  the  Marquis  of,  his  liber- 


ality to  the  Free  Church,  269  ;  at 
the  Edinburgh  meeting  in  1843,  461 ; 
his  character  and  services  to  the  Free 
Church,  464  ;  his  conduct  as  re- 
garded sites,  465  ;  his  speech  in  the 
House  of  Lords,  466  ;  his  wide  influ- 
ence and  substantial  help,  467  ;  at 
E.Keter  Hall.  531  ;  his  help  at  Ken- 
more,  1843-46,  750. 

Breadalbane,  the  Dowager  Marchioness 
of,  church  and  manse  built  at  Lang- 
ton  by  her,  269  ;  in  1843,  her  liberal 
subscription  for  a  manse  at  Kinneff, 
458. 

Breadalbane,  revival  in  1816  at,  9. 

Breadalbane,  The,  missionary  schooner, 
her  "  log,"  652-r)3  ;  her  annual  visits 
to  St.  Kilda,  697. 

Brewster,  Rev.  Dr.,  at  Ferryden,  1846, 
773  ;  dying  testimony  of,  407. 

Brewster,  Sir  David,  attempt  at  his  ex- 
pulsion from  the  Principalship  at  St. 
Andrews,  792. 

Bright,  John,  Esq.,  M.P.,  537. 

Broadford,  Skye,  preaching  at,  1842, 
659. 

Brockie,  Mr.  William,  Annandale,  his 
testimony  to  the  effect  of  evangelical 
preaching  in  184.3,  757-58. 

Broomknoll,  Airdrie,  its  quoad  sacra 
church,  487. 

Brougham,  Lord,  his  simile  to  illustrate 
the  inefficiency  of  the  caU,  21,  22. 

Brown,  Rev.  Dr.  Charles  J.,  accommo- 
dation in  1843  to  the  congregation  of, 
211  ;  preaches  before  the  Assembly, 
1844,  on  "Deepening  of  Personal 
Religion,"  628-29  ;  conspicuous  effect 
of  his  Assembly  sermon,  721  ;  takes 
active  part  in  Home  Mission  work, 
738  ;  reference  to  continued  effect 
of  his  memorable  Assembly  sermon, 
772. 

Brown,  of  Roslin,  Rev.  David,  his  first 
service  to  a  Free  Church  congregation, 
108  ;  his  sacrifices  at  the  Disruption, 
177,  638. 

Brown,  of  Langton,  Rev.  Dr.  John, 
his  church  declared  vacant,  122. 

Brown,  of  St.  John's,  Glasgow,  Rev. 
Dr.  Thomas,  his  testimony  as 
Moderator  of  the  Glasgow  Assembly 
to  the  blessings  which  followed  the 
Disruption,  245 ;  at  Assembly  of 
1844,  631. 

Brown,  Peter,  Esq.,  Glasgow,  461. 

Brown,  Rev.  Thomas,  of  Dean  Church, 
Edinburgh,  his  manse  at  Kinneff 
generously  subscribed  for,  1843, 
458. 


820 


INDEX. 


Brown,  Rev.  Mr.,  of  Castle-Douglas, 
deputy  from  Committee  of  Convoca- 
tion to  Glenisla,  585 ;  in  Glenisla, 
1843,  587. 

Brown,  Robert,  Esq.,  of  Fairly,  652. 

Broun,  Rev.  Hugh  M'Bryde,  settled  at 
Lochmaben,  1843,  758. 

Bruce,  Robert,  Esq.,  of  Kennet,  at 
Keith,  1843,  703;  704. 

Bruce,  Rev.  Dr.  John,  of  Free  St.  An- 
drew's, Edinburgh,  his  ministrations 
requested  by  various  former  opponents 
on  their  death-beds,  755. 

Brunton,  Rev.  Dr.,  Edinburgh,  Profes- 
sor of  Hebrew,  510. 

Bryden,  Mr.,  of  Ochiltree,  gives  a  site, 
457. 

Buccleuch,  the  Duke  of,  opposition  at 
Thornhill  by,  262 ;  opposes  Free 
Church  meetings  on  his  property,  431 ; 
returns  no  answer  to  an  appeal  through 
Dr.  Chalmers,  439  ;  yields  at  Wan- 
lockhead,  444  ;  his  honourable  and 
fair  conduct  towards  his  tenantry, 
445. 

Buchan,  Rev.  William,  of  Hamilton, 
his  labours  after  the  Disruption,  375 ; 
in  a  deputation  to  England,  527. 

Buchan,  George,  of  Kelloe,  462. 

Buchanan,  Rev.  Dr.  Robert,  of  Glasgow, 
moves  the  Independence  Resolutions 
in  1838,  31  ;  his  feelings  about  going 
out,  145  ;  his  retrospect  as  to  the 
great  success  of  the  Disruption,  580  ; 
its  steady  financial  progress  reported 
by  (1867),  300  ;  speaks  at  a  meeting 
in  Glasgow  for  the  formation  of  a 
Young  Men's  Christian  Association, 
1842,  644  ;  at  Inverness  Assembly, 
1845,  651  ;  active  in  Home  Mission 
work,  1844-60,  739  ;  reports  marked 
success  from  evan<;elical  agencies  in 
Glasgow,  1861,  743  ;  on  permanent 
effect  from  the  revival  movements  of 
1860-61,  785,  786  ;  on  attempts  to 
avert  the  Disruption,  789 ;  on  the 
"  steadiness  "  of  the  Sustentation 
Fund,  794  ;  how  characterised  as  a 
leader,  787. 

Buchanan,  Allan,  Esq.,  Glasgow,  461. 

Buchanan,  William,  Esq.,  Glasgow,  461. 

Buchanan,  James,  Esq.  of  Woodlands, 
Glasgow,  461. 

Buchanan,  Rev.  Dr.  James,  Professor, 
New  College,  Edinburgh  ;  letter  to 
Dr.  Burns,  of  Toronto,  564  ;  on  re- 
vival movements  of  1860-62,  774,  775. 

Duist,  Dr.,  an  American,  his  reference 
to  Free  Church  stations  on  the  Con- 
tinent of  Europe,  558. 


Bunting,  Mr.,  528. 

Bunting,  Mr.  Percival,  Manchester. 
solicitor,  reminiscences  by.  533-40. 

Bunting,  Rev.  Dr.  Jabez,  535. 

Burghead,  provision  made  for  worship 
in  1843  at,  218. 

Burnet,  of  Monboddo,  anecdote  of 
Captain,  349  ;  his  generosity  to  the 
Free  Church,  and  Dr.  Chalmers" 
visit  to  him,  350  {7iote). 

Burns,  Rev.  Dr.  William,  of  Kilsyth, 
revival  at  Kilsyth  under  his  minis- 
try, 8  ;  his  thoughts  of  the  impending 
Disruption,  60  ;  his  recollections  of 
the  Disruption,  93  ;  his  farewell 
sermon.  111  ;  his  first  sermon  to  a 
Free  Church  congregation,  112  ;  his 
leaving  the  manse,  135 ;  his  retrospect, 
148,  404 ;  Disruption  reminiscences 
by,  578 ;  his  comparative  view  of 
ministerial  status  before  and  after  the 
Disruption,  603 ;  anecdote  by,  illus- 
trating a  need  for  the  Disruption, 
746. 

Burns,  Rev.  Dr.  Thomas,  of  Monkton 
(nephew  of  the  poet),  bis  first  service 
to  a  Free  Church  congregation,  109; 
founds  the  Colony  of  Otago,  New 
Zealand,  1848,  569. 

Burns,  Islay,  Esq.,  Glasgow,  461. 

Burns,  Rev.  James  C,  of  Kirkli.ston,  in 
London  Wall  Church,  1843,  528  ; 
his  account  of  "miniature  Disruption" 
in  London,  529. 

Burns,  Rev.  Dr.,  of  Paisley,  in  North 
America,  1843,  546  ;  his  zeal  for 
religion  in  the  Colonies,  560  ;  passed 
over  for  convenership  of  the  Colonial 
Committee,  561  ;  his  enthusiastic 
reception  as  a  deputy  in  Canada,  562 ; 
Professor  at  Toronto,  564. 

Burns,  Messrs.,  merchants,  Glasgow, 
their  munificence  to  the  Home  Mis- 
sion cause  there,  743. 

Burns,  Rev.  William  C,  evangelist  and 
missionary,  his  memorable  sermon  at 
Kilsyth,  1839,  773. 

Bute,  the  Marquis  of,  dismisses  his 
head  gardener  for  adhering  to  the 
Free  Church,  362;  his  procedure  as 
to  sites,  1843,  605  ;  his  marked  change 
of  feeling,  1843-49,  606. 

C 

Caffraria,  South  Africa,  native  meetiDg 
at,  1843,  511. 

Cairns,  Rev.  Dr.,  of  Cupar,  at  Mel- 
bourne, Australia,  568  ;  his  account 
of   Colonial    experience   and  success^ 


INDEX. 


821 


572,  573  ;  revisits  Scotland,  573  ;  his 
striking  speech  at  the  Assembly  in 
1865,  and  final  return  to  Australia, 
573-76. 

Caithness,  all  noted  for  their  piety  join 
the  Free  Church  in,  163  ;  gratuitous 
labours  of  the  people  in  a  parish  of, 
271 ;  favourable  weather  in,  1843, 
224 ;  results  of  the  Disruption  in, 
650  ;  "  Moderatism  "  in,  676-77. 

Calcutta,  questions  raised  there  by  the 
Disruption,  501  ;  missionary  difficul- 
ties at,  in  1843,  505,  506  ;  generous 
contributions  made  there,  508 ;  a  new 
Institution  founded,  508,  509  ;  Hin- 
doo conversions,  and  hostile  native 
movement,  511  ;  comparative  state- 
ment of  mission  efforts  before  and 
after  the  Disruption,  513. 

Calder,  Angus,  one  of  "The  Men"  in 
the  Highlands,  671. 

Gdder,  William,  one  of  "The  Men," 
his  testimony  against  the  "  Separa- 
tists," e?.'. 

Callander,  Perthshire,  in  1843,  471. 

Cambridge,  the  Free  Church  deputation 
at,  1843,  540. 

Campbell,  Rev.  Mr.,  his  ministry  at 
Botriphnie,  9. 

Campbell,  Lord,  his  dictum  on  the  rela- 
tion of  Church  and  State,  27,  28. 

Campbell,  Alexander,  Esq.,  of  Monzie, 
gives  churches  at  Monzie  and  Dal- 
mally,  269  ;  at  the  Edinburgh  meet- 
ing in  1843,  462. 

Campbell,  of  Berriedale,  Rev.  Samuel, 
his  sufferings  at  the  Disruption,  185  ; 
his  labours  in  Islay,  374. 

Campbell,  of  Kiltearn,  Rev.  Duncan, 
revival  at  Lawers  under,  9  ;  his  sacri- 
fices and  dying  testimony,  407. 

Campbell,  of  Tarbat,  revival  in  Glen- 
lyon  under  the  Rev.  David,  9. 

Campbell,  Rev.  David,  Tarbat,  493. 

Campbell,  Colonel,  of  Fossil,  475,  476. 

Campbell,  the  late  Mrs.,  of  Fossil,  her 
bequest  to  the  congregation  at  Toro- 
say,  664. 

Campbell,  William,  Esq.,  Glasgow,  461. 

Campbell,  Rev.  Dr.,  Established  Church 
minister  in  Ayrshire,  his  honourable 
conduct  as  to  a  site,  474. 

Campbell,  Dr.,  653. 

Campbell,  George,  schoolmaster,  Suther- 
landshire,  one  of  "The  Men,"  672. 

Canipbelton,  provision  for  worship  in 
1S43  at,  217. 

Candlish,  Rev.  Dr.  R.  S.,  his  sen- 
timents on  the  watchword  of  the 
Free   Church,  5  ;    reminds  the   first 


Free  Assembly  of  their  responsibility, 
197  ;  declares  that  the  position  of 
the  Free  Church  has  not  been 
hastily  taken  up,  146  ;  opens  Free 
St.  George's,  Edinburgh,  287  ;  will 
see  how  his  brethren  are  provided 
for  before  he  accepts  the  stipend 
offered  him,  389;  recollection  by  a 
worshipper  in  the  brick  church  in 
which  he  first  preached,  288 ;  his 
labours  in  the  cause  of  education, 
322 ;  his  views  of  Normal  Schools 
and  Universities',  325  ;  at  Wanlock- 
head,  440  ;  at  Cambridge,  525  ;  at 
Manchester,  538;  at  Oxford,  538-40; 
his  sense  of  responsibility  from  the 
Mat  obtained  among  other  Churches, 
554-58  ;  incident  in  his  early  career 
(of  nomination  to  a  Canadian  charge), 
561  ;  his  hopeful  forecast  in  1843  as 
to  Free  Church  success,  579  ;  on  the 
peculiar  responsibilities  of  the  Free 
Church,  1844,  613  ;  on  regard  for  the 
Lord's  Day,  713;  alarmed  by  railway 
Sabbath  desecration,  715  ;  Convener 
of  Committee  on  Sabbath  Schools, 
1849,  722 ;  speech  at  the  Assembly, 
1852,  on  the  heightened  duty  of  the 
Church,  624-25  ;  at  the  Assembly, 
1844,  on  personal  religion,  627-31 ; 
moves  approval  of  Report  on  Evan- 
gelistic Deputations,  1844,  636 ; 
speaks  at  a  great  meeting  in 
Glasgow  for  the  formation  of  Young 
Men's  Christian  Associations,  1842, 
644;  enforces  an  "appeal"  from 
the  Highlands,  649 ;  his  characterisa- 
tion of  "The  Men"  in  the  Highlands, 
666 ;  at  union  with  the  "  Original 
Seceders,"  730 ;  takes  a  lead  in  Home 
Mission  plans,  738  ;  had  sought  to 
avert  the  Disruption,  1841,  788  ;  his 
characteristic  mental  qualities,  787. 
Canada,  Disruption  in  the  Synod  of, 
561  ;  feeling  of  Highlanders  in,  565  ; 
incidents  of  its  Disruption  time,  1844, 
566. 
Canonbie,  tent  erected  on  its  Moor, 
431 ;  interdict  from  the  Duke  of 
Buccleuch  there,  431 ;  site  refused 
at,  431-36;  the  gravel  pit,  432;  a 
minister  settled,  436  ;  Rev.  Mr. 
Innes  dies  through  exposure  at,  447. 
Ca])adose,  Dr.,  553. 
Cargill,  provision  made  for  worship  in 

1843  at,  213. 
Cargill,  Rev.  Donald,  the  well-known, 

referred  to,  619. 
Garment,  Rev.  David,  of  Rosskeen,  his 
forefathers,   1  ;    his  baptism  and  hia 


822 


INDEX. 


grandson's,  4 ;  his  testimony  to  a 
revival  in  18il,  11;  anecdotes  of  a 
parishioner  threatened  for  receiving 
her  pastor  into  her  house,  355  ;  his 
visit  to  Sutherlandshire  in  November, 
1843,  222  ;  on  hardships  from  site- 
refusing,  44G. 

Carmylie,  hardships,  of  the  minister  of, 
in  1843,  179  ;  how  a  site  was  obtained 
at,  263  ;  striking  death  of  a  farmer 
who  had  returned  to  the  Establish- 
ment, 266  ;  conversation  between 
two  elders — Establishment  and  Free 
Church,  198. 

Carnwath,  revival  movement  at,  1860, 
775. 

Carrubber's  Close,  Edinburgh,  mission 
when  begun  at,  774. 

Castle  Moyle,  The  Breadalbane  schooner 
at,  653. 

Catrine,  liberality  of  the  working  people 
at,  270. 

Chalmers,  Rev.  Dr.  Thomas,  his 
lectures  on  Church  establishments, 
26  ;  moves  the  Independence  Resolu- 
tions of  1839,  31,  32  ;  his  activity  :i 
the  preparations  for  the  Disruption, 
81  ;  his  address  at  the  opening  of  the 
Free  Assembly,  95 ;  his  announce- 
ment of  the  scheme  for  a  Sustentation 
Fund,  292,  303  ;  he  reports  progress 
at  the  first  Assembly,  295  ;  his  faith 
in  the  power  of  littles,  299  ;  his 
anecdotes,  303,  304,  306,  308;  he 
sets  on  foot  the  Education  Scheme, 
311  ;  opens  the  New  College  by  an 
address  in  the  brick  church,  328  ; 
preaches  a  Communion  sermon  there, 
288  ;  opens  his  house  for  the  first 
Free  Church  service  at  Morningside, 
109 ;  on  hard  sayings  by  Free 
Churchmen,  430 ;  writes  to  the 
Duke  of  Buccleuch,  438 ;  interests 
the  Countess  of  Effingham  about 
Uyasound  as  "the  Ultima  Thule 
of  Scotland,"  459 ;  effect  of  his 
influence  as  a  professor  before  the 
Disruption  period,  459 ;  his  state- 
ment at  Inverness,  1845,  467  ;  re- 
marks as  to  diminished  hostility  after 
the  Disruption,  468 ;  his  Church 
Extension  movement,  1834-41,  485  ; 
pointed  remark  by,  521  ;  his  ap- 
preciation of  sympathy  from  Eng- 
lish Churchmen,  527  ;  welcome  to 
D'Aubigni^,  1845,  552;  his  confidence 
of  financial  success  for  the  Free 
Church,  608  ;  his  claim  of  National 
as  compared  with  Sectarian  benefit 
by  the  Disruption,  623;   at  Confer- 


ence on  Personal  Religion,  Assembly 
of  1844,  630  ;  his  diary  in  the  above 
reference,  632  ;  appeal  for  increased 
prominence  to  the  "  lay  element," 
1844,  645  ;  on  the  growth  of  Sabbath 
desecration,  1864,  717  ;  renewed 
Home  Mission  work  by,  1844,  735- 
39 ;  encouraged  by  success  in  the 
West  Port,  737  ;  his  death  referred 
to,  738  ;  how  to  be  characterised  as  a 
leader,  787. 

Chalmers,  Rev.  Prof.,  of  London,  on 
American  deputation,  1843,  546. 

Christie,  C.  M.,  Esq.,  of  Durie,  his 
application  of  a  soldier's  experience, 
185 ;  at  the  Edinburgh  meeting  in 
1843,  462. 

Clark,  William  Towers,  Esq.,  Glasgow, 
461. 

Clark,  Rev.  Mr.,  of  Aberfeldy,  653. 

Clark,  Rev.  Mr.,  of  Half- Morton,  with 
a  non-intrusion  deputation  at  Apple- 
garth,  757. 

Cleghorn,  Sheriff,  460. 

Cleish,  device  to  prevent  the  people 
from  getting  sand,  258. 

Clerk,  of  Penicuik,  Sir  George,  at  first 
refuses  a  site,  261. 

Cochrane,  Rev.  Mr.,  of  the  Pleasance 
Church,  Edinburgh,  on  revival  move- 
ments there,  1860-61,  778. 

Cockburn,  Lord,  484  ;  his  remarks  as 
to  scenes  at  Tanfield  Hall,  553 ;  his 
retrospective  view  of  the  Disruption, 
598-600. 

Cockburnspath,  petty  annoyance  to  the 
congregation  at,  353 ;  trials  of  the 
minister  of,  183. 

Coll,  island  of,  site  refused  in,  422  ; 
revival  in,  664. 

Collace,  revival  in  1840  at,  10  ;  tent- 
preaching  and  favourable  weather  in 
1843,  228. 

Collace,  effect  of  evangelistic  deputa- 
tion at,  1844,  638. 

Collins,  William,  Esq.,  Glasgow,  461. 

Collessie,  parish  of,  Fifeshire,  in  1843, 
470-71. 

Colonies,  effect  of  the  Disruption  in 
the,  560. 

Colquhoun,  Lady,  her  testimony  to  the 
effect  of  the  Disruption  on  the  people 
of  Luss,  201. 

Constantinople,  Sabbath-school  contri- 
bution for,  1873,  727. 

Continent  of  Europe,  addresses  from 
various  Churches  in,  551. 

Cook,  Rev.  Dr.  George,  brings  Dr. 
Welsh's  protest  before  the  Assembly, 
173. 


INDEX. 


823 


Cook,  Rev.  Dr.,  of  St.  Andrews,  favour- 
ing a  libel  against  Principal  Brewster, 
1843,  792. 

Cormick,  E-ev.  Mr.,  of  Kirriemuir,  his 
open-air  preaching,  1848,  708. 

Couper,  Rev.  Dr.,  of  Burntisland, 
deputed  to  Canadian  Churches, 
562. 

Cousin,  David,  Esq.,  architect,  plans  a 
church  for  a  three-cornered  site  at 
Saltcoats,  284. 

Coutts,  liberality  of  Mrs.,  303 ;  her  visit 
to  the  Bridge -of -Earn,  243. 

Cowan,  Charles,  Esq.  (M.P.  for  Edin- 
burgh), presents  a  site  to  the  Free 
Church  at  Penicuik,  261  ;  reminis- 
cences by,  577-78. 

Cowan,  Lord,  Judge  of  the  Court  of 
Session,  460. 

Cowan,  John,  Esq.,  Beeslack,  distin- 
guished as  a  friend  of  Sabbath 
schools,  1874,  723. 

Cowgate  Home  Mission,  Edinburgh, 
738. 

Cowie,  of  Huntly,  Rev.  Mr.,  traces  of 
his  ministry,  9. 

Cox,  Rev.  Dr.,  of  Hackney,  536-37. 

Craig,  of  Rothesay,  first  sermon  to  a 
Free  Church  congregation  by  the 
Rev.  Robert,  118. 

Craig,  Rev.  Mr.,  of  Sprouston,  farewell 
discourse  by,  1843,  469. 

Craigie,  L.,  Esq.,  of  Glendoicb,  at 
the  Edinburgh  meeting  in  1843, 
462  ;  at  Keith,  1843,  7u3. 

Crailing,  the  farewell  to  the  Establish- 
ment at,  106  ;  thunderstorm  during 
service  at,  226. 

Crawford,  James,  Esq.,  elder,  538. 

Crawfurd,  Howieson,  Esq.,  of  Crawfurd- 
land,  432,  462. 

Crawford,  James,  Esq.,  W.S.,  biography 
of,  460. 

Cray,  Glenisla,  station  opened  at,  1843, 
586. 

Creich,  parish  of,  its  benefits  from  the 
Disruption,  681. 

Crichton,  Esq.,  the  vituperation  directed 
against  D.  M.  M.,  61. 

Crichton,  William,  Esq.,  R.N.,  Glasgow, 
461. 

Crichton,  Maitland  Makgill,  Esq.,  462 ; 
his  influence  in  Fifeshire,  463 ;  at 
Manchester,  1843,  537  ;  representa- 
tive of  the  Free  Church  at  Belfast, 
545. 

Croich,  provision  for  worship  in  1843 
at.  218. 

Cromarty,  carrying  forth  of  stools  from 
the  Parish  Church,  227  ;   favourable 


weather  in  1843,  224-26;  persecution 
of  Free  Church  people  in,  358. 

Cromarty,  its  jail  broken  into,  449. 

Cubitt,  Mr.  George,  536. 

Culsalmond,  incidents  of  the  Disruption 
period  at,  703. 

Cumming,  of  London,  Rev.  Dr.,  his 
prognostication  of  the  number  tha,t 
would  come  out  at  the  Disruption, 
86. 

Cumming,  Charles,  Esq.,  451. 

Cunningham,  D.  D.,  Rev.  Principal 
William,  his  anxiety  that  Lord 
Aberdeen's  Bill  might  be  found 
sufficient,  145;  reports  to  the  As- 
sembly in  1845,  the  completion  of  the 
scheme  for  raising  £20,000  for  the 
New  College,  335  ;  in  deputation  to 
England,  525  ;  at  London  Wall 
Church,  531 ;  in  London,  1843,  543 ; 
in  North  America,  1843,  545-47;  at 
the  General  Assembly,  1848,  553;  an 
American  opinion  of  the  Disruption 
stated  to,  622 ;  at  Assembly  of  1844, 
631 ;  speaks  at  a  meeting  in  Glasgow 
for  the  formation  of  Young  Men's 
Christian  Associations,  1842,  644 ; 
his  remarks  as  to  Report  on  Intemper- 
ance, 1847,  719;  his  interest  in  re- 
vival movements  in  1860-61,  778  ; 
how  characterised  as  a  leader,  787. 

Cunningham,  of  Coldstream,  Mr.  James, 
his  generous  help  given  to  the  Free 
Church,  275. 

Cunninghame,  David,  a  Home  Mission 
visitor  in  Glasgow,  741. 

Cupar,  Presbytery  of,  Fifeshire,  its 
numerous  influential  supporters  of 
Disruption  principles,  463. 

Cuthbert,  Mr.,  at  Ochiltree,  gives 
accommodation,  457. 

Cuthbertson,  Allan,  Esq.,  Glasgow, 
461. 


D 

Dalgleish,  James  Ogilvie,  Esq.,  of 
Woodburn,  Fifeshire,  463. 

Dalgleish,  Capt.  Archibald,  463. 

Dalarossie,  parish  of,  "  Separatism"  in, 
680. 

D'Aubign^,  Dr.  Merle,  of  Geneva,  482; 
struck  by  the  "life  and  earnestness" 
made  manifest  through  the  Dis- 
ruption, 747  ;  at  Tanfield  Hall,  1845, 
552. 

Davidson,  of  Kilmalie,  Rev.  Thomas, 
his  sacrifices  in  1843,  179  ;  his  subse- 
quent hardships,  238  ;  his  health 
gives  way  under  them,  346. 


824 


INDEX. 


Davidson,  of  Latheron,  Rev.  George, 
his  labours  at  Latheron,  14  ;  his  last 
service  in  the  Established  Church, 
101  ;  his  narrative  of  the  building  of 
the  Free  Church,  273  ;  his  leaving 
the  manse,  136  ;  of  extract  from 
biography,  476  ;  his  trouble  from 
Separatist  meetings  under  some  of 
"The  Men,"  678;  his  visit  to  Alex. 
Gair's  death-bed,  682  ;  his  account  of 
revival  movements  in  1860,  779-81. 

Davidson,  Rev.  Dr.  G.  R.,  of  Free 
Lady  Glenorchy's,  Edinburgh,  pre- 
Disruption  anecdotes  of,  702  ;  inci- 
dents of  his  preaching  in  the  North, 

703  ;    at    Keith,    Strathbogie,    1843, 

704  ;    on    the    effect    of    Disruption 
there,  705,  706. 

Davidson,  Rev.  Mr.,  of  Broughty- 
Ferry,  at  Keith,  Strathbogie,  1843, 
704. 

Daviot,  parish  of,  677;  "Separatists" 
in,  679. 

Deskford,  accommodation  of  the  minis- 
ter of,  after  the  Disruption,  177  ; 
those  who  would  wait  till  they  saw, 
166  ;  anecdote  of  a  poor  woman,  170. 

Deskford,  revival  movement  at,  1860, 
776-77. 

Dewar,  of  Fochabers,  Rev.  David,  his 
account  of  the  breaking  of  the  inter- 
dict by  Dr.  Guthrie,  34. 

Dickie,  of  Dunlop,  Rev.  Matthew,  his 
sacrifices  in  1843,  390. 

Dickson,  William,  Esq.,  elder,  Edin- 
burgh, his  account  of  the  revival  in 
Skye  in  1843,  203;  his  notes  on 
Sabbath -school  progress,  721  ;  edits 
the  Children's  Record,  1850,  722 ; 
Convener  of  Committee  on  Sabbath 
Schools,  1855,  722 ;  his  report  in 
1882,  724. 

Dickson,  Mr.,  of  Hartree,  at  the  Edin- 
burgh Meeting  in  1843,  462. 

Dinwoodie  Green,  Applegarth,  remark- 
able "  curling "  game  incident  at, 
757  ;  other  results  of  the  same  occa- 
sion there,  758 

Dodds,  of  Humbie,  Rev.  James,  his 
recollections  of  the  walk  to  Tanfield, 
93  ;  difficulty  of  getting  a  place  to 
preach  in,  223  ;  recollections  of 
Humbie  Dean,  289 ;  exposed  to 
indignities,  391. 

Donald,  Miss,  of  Glenbervie,  at  Kil- 
winning, Ayrshire,  originates  a 
movement  in  aid  of  Free  Church 
extension,  457. 

Dornoch,  visit  of  a  deputation  to  the 
Presbytery  of,  04, 


Douglas,  of  Muthill,  Rev.  William,  his 
account  of  the  building  of  the  Free 
Church  there,  277. 

Dow,  of  Greenock,  Dr.,  gives  a  site  at 
Saltcoats,  254. 

Drumfork,  Glenisla,  586. 

Drumlanrig,  438. 

Drummond,  of  Forgandenny,  Rev. 
James,  how  he  procured  a  site,  255  ; 
his  privations  in  regard  to  residence, 
341. 

Drummond,  Rev.  Mr.,  Kirkmichael, 
683. 

Dryfesdale,  Disruption  preaching  at, 
758. 

Duff,  Rev.  Dr.  Alexander,  501,  502, 
503  ;  preaches  at  Glenisla,  597  ;  his 
remarks  as  to  financial  success  in  the 
Free  Church,  607  ;  on  progress  of 
education  in  the  Hebrides,  686  ;  his 
reminiscences  of  "  Moderatism  "  in 
pre-Disruption  times,  701  ;  on  union 
with  the  "  Original  Seceders,"  1852, 
732 ;  anecdote  by,  illustrating  former 
niggardliness  towards  Missions,  794. 

Duimess,  Sutherlandshire,  Communion 
seasons  and  influence  of  "  The  Men  " 
at,  668-673. 

Dumfries,  amount  of  collections  for 
Free  Church  and  Establishment  pur- 
poses made  on  ttie  same  day  at, 
331. 

Dumfries,  Non-intrusion  meeting  dis- 
turbed at,  1840,  617,  618. 

Dumfriesshire,  evangelistic  meetings  in, 
1844,  636  ;  revival  movement  in, 
1860-62,  774-76. 

Dunbar,  its  Belhaven  Church  seized, 
1843,  494. 

Dunbeath,  no  shelter  allowed  to  be 
erected  by  the  adherents  of  the  Free 
Church  at,  235. 

Dunblane,  recognition  of  the  kindly 
offices  of  the  United  Secession  by  the 
congregation  of,  212. 

Dunbog,  story  from,  showing  how  a 
minister  should  not  preach  better  if 
he  is  worse  paid,  164. 

Duncan,  of  Ruthwell,  Rev.  Dr.  Henry, 
he  breaks  the  interdict,  35  ;  his 
behaviour  when  the  Synod  of 
Dumfries  expelled  the  quoad  sacra 
ministers,  80  ;  proposal  made  to  him 
to  remain  in  the  Establishment,  386; 
his  sacrifices  in  1843,  186,  391 ;  his 
taking  leave  of  the  Establishment, 
102  ;  he  leaves  the  manse,  132  ;  his 
labours  in  the  Free  Church,  376 ; 
and  experience  there,  399  ;  his  dying 
testimony,  406. 


INDEX. 


82ft 


Duncan,  Mrs  Henry,  her  interview 
with  JNIr.  Elliot,  author  of  the  Horae 
Apociilypticae,  401. 

Duncan,  of  Cleish,  Eev.  W.  W.,  his 
thoughts  about  impending  Disrup- 
tion, 60  ;  his  leaving  the  manse,  136. 

Duncan,  of  Kirkpatrick-Durham,  Rev. 
G.  T.  C,  his  recollection  of  the  walk 
to  Tanfield,  94. 

Duncan,  Rev.  Dr.  John,  Professor  of 
Hebrew,  New  College,  at  Assembly 
of  1844,  631. 

Duncan,  Rev.  Thomas,  settled  at  Lock- 
erbie, 1843,  758. 

Dundee,  revival  in  1836-39  at,  11; 
anecdote  of  an  aged  woman  in,  171  ; 
accommodation  of  St.  David's  congre- 
gation in  1843,  214. 

Dunlop,  Alexander  Murray,  Esq.,  M.P. 
for  Greenock,  draws  up  the  Claim  of 
Right,  47  ;  his  impression  of  the 
walk  to  Tanfield,  94  ;  his  exposure 
of  an  attempt  to  remove  from  the 
poor-roll  any  who  might  contribute 
to  the  Free  Church,  363 ;  special 
notice  of  his  services,  460  ;  reference 
to  his  biography,  460  ;  his  statement 
regarding  Sir  James  Graham's  polic}', 
468  ;  remark  as  to  Dr.  Chalmers' 
sanguine  expectations,  608  ;  how 
characterised  as  an  adviser  and 
leader,  787. 

Dunlop,  Henry,  Esq.  of  Craigton,  461. 

Dunuichen,  benefits  of  the  Disruption 
at,  641. 

Durness,  a  Sabbath  at,  240. 

Duthil,  hardship  of  worship  in  open  air 
at,  413;  parish  of,  677;  "Separa- 
tists" in,  679. 

Dyke,  accommodation  of  the  minister 
of,  in  1843,  178. 

Dykes,  of  Leadshead,  James,  and  his 
ancestors,  3. 

E 

Easdale,  Argyllshire,  The  Breadalhane 
schooner  at,  653. 

Edinburgh,  its  local  associations,  4 ; 
sacrifices  by  inhabitants  of,  to  sup- 
port the  Free  Church,  303;  marked 
revival  of  evangelical  religion  among 
the  upper  circles  in,  459  ;  strong 
support  given  there  to  the  Free 
Church  by  leading  laymen,  459-461 ; 
influential  meeting  of  landed  proprie- 
tors at,  favourable  to  Free  Church 
principles,  in  1843,  461  ;  seizure  of 
Lady  Glenorchy's  Church  at,  1845, 
407  ;  Ladies'  Association  for  the 
Training     of      Highland      Students 


formed  at,  November,  1850,  684 ; 
its  Town  Council  petitions  against 
Post-oflace  Sabbath  work,  1850,  715. 

Edgar,  Rev.  Mr.,  of  Memus,  in 
GIeni.sla,  1843,  587  ;  on  deep- 
ened religious  feeling  since  the  Dis- 
rujition,  752  ;  statement  by,  1843, 
039. 

Edmondston,  of  Ashkirk,  Rev.  John,  his 
trials  after  the  Disruption,  339. 

Edmonstone,  Sir  A.  Bart.,  Kilsyth,  603. 

Edwards,  Rev.  Mr.,  Professorof  Divinity 
in  the  Welsh  Cdlvinistic  Methodist 
Church,  at  Glasgow,  1843,  621. 

Edzell,  a  site  refused  to  the  people  of, 
236  ;  attempt  to  prevent  their  getting 
one,  237. 

Effingham,  the  late  Countess  of,  her 
liberality  toward  struggling  congrega- 
tions, 458;  reference  to,  532;  origin- 
ates Home  Mission  at  Cowgatehead, 
739. 

Eglinton,  the  Earl  of,  refuses  a  site  at 
Ardrossan,  254  ;  his  impartial  behav- 
iour as  to  sites  after  the  Disruption, 
473-74. 

Eig,  island  of,  floating  manse  at,  420  ; 
a  site  refused  in,  420. 

Elder  of  Walls,  Rev.  John,  his  leaving 
his  manse,  133. 

Elder,  Rev.  Dr.  Robert,  of  Edinburgh, 
afterwards  of  Rothesay,  538  ;  at  a 
Non-intrusion  Meeting  at  Dumfries, 
1840,  617  ;  at  Assembly  of  1844, 
633  ;  his  statement  as  to  Mr.  M'Bride's 
labours  in  the  West  Highlands,  1845- 
64,  663-64. 

Elliot,  Rev.  E.  B.,  author  of  the  Horae 
Apocalypticae,  his  prejudice  against 
the  Free  Church,  401. 

Ellon,  revival  there  in  1843,  12  ;  provi- 
sion made  for  worship  in  1843,  210. 

England,  the  deputation  to,  527. 

Enterkin,  the  Pass  of,  439. 

Eriskay,  island  of,  Hebrides,  its  educa- 
tional wants  in  1852,  684. 

Errol,  the  farewell  to  the  Establishment, 
104  ;  first  service  in  connection  with 
the  Free  Church,  115  ;  treatment  of 
paupers  in,  364. 

Erskine,  Dr.,  continued  effect  of  his 
evangelical  influence  in  Edinburgh, 
at  the  Disruption  period,  459. 

Eskdalemuir,  meeting  held  by  a  deputa- 
tion in  1843,  69. 

Ewart,  Mrs.,  a  "  second .TennyGeddes," 
at  a  disturbed  Non -intrusion  Meeting 
at  Dumfries,  1840,  618. 

Ewes,  meeting  held  by  a  deputation  in, 
1843,  69. 


INDEX. 


Fairbairn,  Rev.  Principal,  his  anticipa- 
tion of  the  Disruption  at  Salton,  384  ; 
his  report  on  Sabbath  Observance, 
1843,  714-15. 

Fairlie,  provision  for  worship  in  1843 
at,  215  ;  Lord  Glasgow  takes  the 
school  of,  311. 

Farmer,  Thomas,  Esq.,  Treasiirer  of 
Wesleyan  Foreign  Mission,  536. 

FarquharsoD,  Mr.  Thomas,  Coldside, 
Glenisla,  farmer,  made  chairman  of 
a  Non-intrusion  meeting  there,  1849, 
592. 

Farr,  last  service  in  the  Parish 
Church  of,  101  ;  worship  in  the 
open  air  at,  221  ;  persecution  by 
the  Duke  of  Sutherland  of  the 
minister  of,  181  ;  "  Separatists  "  in, 
1843,  679. 

Ferguson,  of  Maryton,  E-ev.  A.,  his  re- 
moval from  the  manse,  and  death 
next  day,  141. 

Ferguson,  Henry,  Esq.,  Dundee,  elder, 
545. 

Ferguson,  John,  in  St.  Kilda,  691. 

Ferguson,  Pev.  Mr.,  Drumfork,  586. 

Ferguson,  Rev.  Mr.,  of  Alyth,  589. 

Fergusson,  Rev.  Mr.,  Dunnichen,  at 
Montreux,  557  ;  statement  by,  1843, 
641  ;  on  deepened  religious  feeling 
since  the  Disruption,  752, 

Ferintosh,  Glen  IJrquhart,  Communion 
seasons  at,  667. 

Ferryden,  revival  movement  among  the 
fishermen  at,  1846,  773  ;  memorable 
religious  awakening  there  in  1860, 
781-84. 

Fifeshire,  interesting  case  of  a  pro- 
prietor in,  475  ;  revival  movements 
in,  1860-61  ;  776. 

Findlater,  of  Durness,  Rev.  William, 
his  leaving  his  manse,  135,  342. 

Findlater,  Rev.  Eric,  of  Lochearnhead, 
his  recollections  of  his  father's  leaving 
the  manse  of  Durness,  342 ;  his 
account  of  a  visit  to  Durness,  240  ; 
his  labours  after  the  Disruption,  379; 
account  of  Highland  Communion 
seasons  by,  668-73 ;  his  reference  to 
Antinomian  views  among  some  of 
"The  Men,"  677-78. 

Finnieston,  a  revival  movement  at, 
1860-61,  779. 

Flntray,  meeting  broken  up  by  the 
laird's  factor,  71. 

Fleming,  John  Park,  Esq.,  Glasgow, 
,  461. 

Flisk,  last  service  in  the  Parish  Church 
of,  101 ;  provision  made  for  worship 


at,  213  ;  how  a  site  for  church  and 
manse  was  procured  at,  254  ;  per- 
secution of  those  who  joined  the  Free 
Church  at,  358  ;  the  intelligence  of 
its  farm  overseers,  450  ;  revival 
movement  at,  1860,  776. 

Florence,  theological  library  at,  555  ; 
its  Theological  College,  555-56. 

Flyter,  of  Alness,  Rev.  Alexander,  his 
testimony  to  revival  in  1840,  10  ;  his 
recollection  of  the  walk  to  Tanfield,  93. 

Fodderty,  Ross-shire,  677. 

Foote,  of  Aberdeen,  Rev.  Dr.  James, 
early  experience  of,  1. 

Forbes,  Rev.  Mr.,  Woodside,  Aberdeen, 
report  by,  1844,  639. 

Forfar,  the  Free  Church  Congregation 
of,  641. 

Forfarshire,  zealous  support  there,  by 
Mr.  Lyon  of  Glenogil,  at  Tannadyce, 
463 ;  a  revival  movement  in,  1868, 777. 

Forgandenny,  a  tent  provided  at,  two 
heritors  threaten  those  who  resort  to 
it,  229  ;  difficulties  in  obtaining  a 
site  at,  255  ;  attempt  to  prevent  the 
people  from  getting  sand,  259  ;  leav- 
ing the  manse  of,  341. 

Foi-man,  of  Innerwick,  Rev.  Adam,  his 
first  service  to  a  Free  Church  con- 
gregation, 109. 

Fort  Augustus,  provision  for  worship 
in,  1843,  217. 

Fortingall,  the  people  of,  forced  to 
remove  their  tent  from  the  common, 
233. 

Forrester,  Rev.  Mr.,  of  Sorby,  after- 
wards of  Paisley,  563. 

Fountainbridge  Home  Mission,  Edin- 
burgh, 738. 

France,  disruption  in  the  Protestant 
Church  of,  1848,  553. 

Eraser,  Mr.  Arthur,  Calcutta,  509. 

Eraser,  Rev.  Alex.,  of  Kirkhill,  Dis- 
ruption notes  by,  658  ;  how  widely 
esteemed  in  the  Highlands,  680. 

Frazer,  Janet,  devotes  her  property  at 
Thornhill  to  the  Free  Church,  her 
story  told  in  America,  262. 

Fullarton,  Rev.  A.  C,  Glasgow ;  his 
account  of  "Ladies'  Association" 
work  among  the  Hebrides,  688  ;  and 
description  of  its  various  localities, 
688-89. 

Fuller,  Rev.  Andrew,  537. 

G 

Gair,  Alexander,  one  of  "The  Men"  in 
the  Highlands,  677-78;  his  "Separa- 
tism"  continued  after  1843,  679; 
gives  way  at  the  last,  681-82. 


INDEX. 


827 


Galston,  improved  morality  there  since 
the  Disruption,  751. 

Gardyne,  James,  farmer  in  Carmylie, 
his  retort  suggesting  that  a  horse  had 
been  interdicted,  264. 

Gardyne,  Mrs.,  evicted  from  her  cottage 
at  Carmylie  because  she  gave  a  site 
to  the  Free  Church,  264. 

Garioch,  of  Old  Meldrum,  Rev.  George, 
his  leaving  the  manse,  and  consequent 
privations,  343 ;  his  Evangelical 
preaching  in  early  pre- Disruption 
times,  702. 

Gattly,  treatment  of  paupers  adhering 
to  the  Free  Church  at,  364. 

Garvald,  provisions  made  for  worship  in 
1843  at,  212. 

Gasparin,  Count,  at  the  General  As- 
sembly, 1848,  553. 

Geneva,  556. 

Gemmel,  Mr.  John,  farmer  at  Garple, 
furnishes  a  banner  which  had  seen 
Drumclog  for  a  meeting  at  Muirkirk, 
283. 

Ghospara,  India,  505. 

Gibson,  of  Kirkbean,  Rev.  R.,  hia  ex- 
perience in  the  summer  of  1843,  243 ; 
his  inconvenient  residence,  339  ;  on 
deepened  religious  feeling  since  the 
Disruption,  751-52. 

Gibb,  Rev.  Mr.,  presented  to  Glenisla, 
1843,  590. 

Gillies,  Rev.  Mr.,  in  Glenisla,  1843, 
587. 

Gilltspie,  Mr.  Alexander,  London,  elder, 
532. 

Girthon,  difficulty  of  obtaining  a  site 
at,  257  ;  opening  of  the  Free  Church 
at,  285. 

Glasgow,  the  Earl  of,  ousts  the  Free 
Church  from  a  schoolhouse  at  Fairlie, 
215  ;  as  to  Barrhead  Church,  495. 

Glasgow,  strong  support  by  the  laity  of, 
in  1843,  to  the  Free  Church  move- 
ment, 461 ;  its  quoad  sacra  churches, 
488  ;  case  of  Hope  Street  Church, 
495  ;  the  Assembly  at,  in  1843,  621  ; 
the  Young  Men's  Christian  Associa- 
tion originated  at,  1842,  643-44; 
Ladies'  Association  for  the  "Training 
of  Highland  Students"  formed  at, 
1850,  684  ;  its  Town  Council  petitions 
against  Post-office  Sabbath  work, 
1850,  715  ;  statistics  of  intemper- 
ance in,  1846,  718  ;  striking  results 
of  Free  Church  Home  Mission  work 
there,  739. 

Glass,  Rev.  Mr.,  Braeadale,  Skye,  658  ; 
preaching  at  Shieldag,  1845,  661. 

Glen,  Rev.  Mr.,  of  Benholm,  makes  an 


appeal  to  his  people  for  revival  of 
religion,  1842,  765 ;  his  continuous 
spiritual  longings  and  efforts,  766-09; 
was  typical  in  preaching,  of  a  wide- 
spread influence  from  the  Disruption 
movement,  770-72. 

Glencairn,  the  parish  of,  referred  to,  619. 

Glenisla,  Forfarshire,  peculiar  Disrup- 
tion incidents  in,  582-97 ;  Non- 
intrusion meetings  there,  1843-49, 
583-96  ;  its  Free  Church  built,  1849, 
596  ;  a  minister  called  to  and 
ordained  in  it,  1850,  597  ;  a  time 
of  revival  there,  597 ;  Disruption 
incidents  in,  761-62. 

Glenkens,  memorable  opening  of  a  Free 
Church  at,  1845,  618. 

Glenlyon,  revival  in  1816  at,  9. 

Glenorchy,  Lady,  her  chapel  and  its 
associations,  497. 

Goold,  Rev.  Dr.,  Edinburgh,  at  the 
union  of  his  Church  with  the  Free 
Church,  1876,  733-34. 

Gordon,  Rev.  Dr.  Robert,  of  Edinburgh, 
his  reasons  for  going  out,  145  ; 
preaches  at  Canonbie,  432 ;  effect 
of  his  preaching  in  Edinburgh  before 
the  Disruption  period,  459  ;  re- 
ferred to,  509  ;  at  Assembly  of  1844, 
631. 

Gordon,  the  Duchess  of,  her  complete 
isolation  in  the  Establishment,  161  ; 
her  opinion  of  the  Moderates,  162  ; 
her  treatment  by  Lord  Aberdeen, 
365  ;  a  large  contributor  to  erection 
of  Holyrood  Home  Mission  Church, 
Edinburgh,  739. 

Gordon,  of  Edderton,  Rev.  Donald,  his 
sufferings  and  death  from  exposure, 
382. 

Gordon,  Mr.,  of  Glenkens,  referred  to, 
619. 

Graham,  Sir  James,  his  letter  rejecting 
the  appeal  of  the  Church,  75  ;  his 
and  his  friends'  statement  of  reasons 
for  refusing  sites,  428-30. 

Graham,  Gillespie,  Esq.,  of  Orchil,  his 
kindness  to  the  people  of  Muthill,  279. 

Grant,  of  Ayr,  Rev.  William,  his  narra- 
tive of  a  movement  among  the  pro- 
bationers, 127  ;  heads  a  deputation 
of  them  to  the  Convocation,  129  ; 
interdicted  from  the  use  of  his  quoad 
sacra  church,  110  ;  proposal  made  to 
him  to  return  to  the  Establishment, 
386  ;  opening  of  his  Free  Church, 
and  singular  coincidence  of  texts, 
286  ;  his  testimony  to  the  effect  of 
the  Disru(ition  on  the  people  of 
Ayrshire,  201  ;  anecdotes  by,  518. 


828 


INDEX. 


Grant,  of  Ardoch,  Rev.  Samuel,  his 
account  of  the  effect  of  the  Convoca- 
tion on  his  people,  62  ;  his  compara- 
tive view  of  ministerial  "status" 
before  and  after  the  Disruption,  603  ; 
report  by,  1844,  639. 

Grant,  John,  at  Kildonan,  elder,  a  first 
leader  among  ' '  The  Men  "  of  the 
Highlands,  676. 

Grayesend,  London,  meeting  at,  526. 

Gray,  Eev.  Andrew,  of  Perth,  laments 
the  loss  of  his  schools,  309  ;  deputed 
to  the  Canton  de  Vaud,  1845,  553  ; 
addresses  by,  on  responsibilities  of  the 
Free  Church,  1848,  613-14;  his  letters 
to  his  congregation  during  Assemblies 
1840-44,  632-33  ;  on  Spiritual  inde- 
pendence as  essential  to  the  Church, 
790. 

Greenock,  first  Free  Church  service  at, 
113;  Communions  in  the  temporary 
church  at,  288  ;  accommodation  of 
the  minister  after  the  Disruption, 
176 ;  strong  support  by  its  laity  to 
Free  Church  principles  in  1843,  461  ; 
interdict  at,  1843,  494. 

Greig,  Rev.  Mr.,  of  St.  Ninian's,  his 
comparative  view  of  ministerial 
"status"  before  and  after  the  Dis- 
ruption, 603. 

Grey,  Rev.  Dr.  Henry,  in  deputation  to 
England,  at  London  Wall,  525-31  ; 
his  statement  as  to  peculiar  responsi- 
bilities of  the  Free  Church,  613  ;  his 
closing  address  to  the  General  As- 
sembly, 1844,  642;  opening  address, 
1845,  643. 

Grierson,  Rev.  Dr.  James,  of  Errol, 
efforts  made  to  induce  him  to  remain 
in  the  Establishment,  386  ;  his  leav- 
ing the  manse,  137  ;  his  sacrifices  in 
leaving  the  Establishment,  390  ;  his 
last  service  in  the  Parish  Church,  104 ; 
his  first  sermon  to  a  Free  Church  con- 
gregation, 115  ;  is  exposed  to  indig- 
nities, 391 ;  his  comparative  view  of 
ministerial  "status  "  before  and  after 
the  Disruption,  602;  on  "Moderat- 
ism  "  in  pre-Disruption  times,  701. 

Gualter,  Rev.  Mr.,  of  Hawick,  at 
Snizort,  1863,  667. 

Guthrie,  Rev.  Dr.  Thomas,  breaks  the 
interdict,  34  ;  his  opinion  of  the  effect 
of  the  Disruption,  193  ;  his  account 
of  his  visits  to  Tongue  and  Cockburns- 
path,  182  ;  his  testimony  to  the  con- 
tent of  Free  Church  ministers,  403  ; 
anecdotes  of  the  people's  liberality, 
301  ;  undertakes  the  conduct  of  the 
manse  scheme,  347  ;  his  visit  to  Glas- 


gow, 348  ;  and  to  Fordoun,  349 ;  his 
report  in  1846,  349  ;  anecdote  of  an 
opponent's  opinion  about  manses,  351 ; 
scene  at  Canonbie,  434  ;  at  Wanlock- 
head,  441  ;  statement  by,  in  refer- 
ence to  Lord  Aberdeen  and  Sir 
James  Graham,  468 ;  various  Dis- 
ruption incidents  related  by,  515-19  ; 
in  deputation  to  England,  525  ;  at 
London  Wall  Church,  531 ;  in  Lon- 
don, 1843,  543  ;  anecdote  by,  601 ; 
at  a  disturbed  Non-intrusion  meeting 
at  Dumfries,  1840,  617,  618  ;  his 
record  as  to  popular  enthusiasm  in 
1843,  620  ;  speaks  at  a  meeting  in 
Glasgow  for  the  formation  of  Young 
Men's  Christian  Associations,  1842, 
644  ;  Highland  anecdote  by,  651  ; 
sets  agoing  the  Pleasance  Home 
Mission,  738  ;  incident  of  his  Dis- 
ruption preaching  in  Strathbogie^ 
754. 


Haddington,  the  Earl  of,  his  reply  to  a 
parish  minister  who  would  have  him 
to  prevent  his  tenant  from  giving  the 
use  of  his  barn  to  the  Free  Church, 
233. 

Haddington,  its  quoad  sacra  church, 
490. 

Hall,  Mr.,  Braehead  of  Leslie,  farmer, 
letter  from,  702. 

Hamilton,  Rev.  Dr.  James,  London, 
his  account  of  the  Convocation,  49  ; 
and  of  Dr.  Welsh's  sermon  on  the 
morning  of  the  Disruption,  89  ;  his 
account  of  Disruption  incidents  there, 
523  ;  at  meeting  in  London,  1843, 
543 ;  on  benefits  due  to  the  Disrup- 
tion, 617. 

Hamilton,  John,  Esq.,  advocate,  his 
testimony  to  the  persecution  of  the 
adherents  of  the  Free  Church,  358  ; 
biography  of,  460. 

Hamilton,  Rev.  Mr.,  of  Saltcoats  Gaelic 
Church,  489. 

Hamilton,  Mr.  William,  London,  elder, 
532. 

Hanna,  Rev.  Dr.  William,  538  ;  on  first 
diSiculties  of  the  West  Port  Home 
Mission,  737  ;  sets  agoing  the  Pleas- 
ance Home  Mission,  738. 

Harpe,  Professor  de  la,  553. 

Harris,  island  of.  The  Breadalbane 
schooner  at,  653 ;  schools  opened 
there,  1851,  684  ;  its  minister  in  1822, 
691. 

Hastings,  Rev.  Thomas,  his  testimony 
to  a  revival  in  1841  at  Wanlockhead, 


INDEX. 


829 


12  ;  sends  away  his  family  to  Dum- 
fries, 440  ;  description  of  the  cottage 
in  which  he  lived,  440  ;  at  out-door 
preaching  in  1843,  749. 

Henderson,  Kev.  Dr.,  of  St.  Enoch's, 
Glasgow,  461  ;  his  zeal  for  religious 
supply  to  the  Colonies,  561  ;  in  de- 
l)utation  from  Assembly  of  1844, 
636. 

Henderson,  Mr.  W.,  Aberdeen,  his 
services  in  the  Sabbath-school  cause, 
1870,  723. 

Helmsdale,  provision  made  for  worship 
in  1843  at, 218;  Hugh  Miller's  visit 
to,  222. 

Heriot,  Mr.,  of  Ramomie,  Fifeshire, 
at  the  Edinburgh  Meeting  in  1843, 
462. 

Heriots,  The,  of  Ramornie,  463, 

Hetherington,  Rev.  Dr.  W.  M.,  letter 
to  his  wife  on  the  day  of  the  Disrup- 
tion, 388  ;  his  church  and  manse  the 
first  finished,  338  ;  at  Manchester, 
538  ;  account  of  the  Assembly  of 
1844  by,  633-34  ;  on  Home  Mission 
work,  647. 

Highlands,  the,  zealous  support  there 
by  Cluny  Macpherson,  462 ;  the 
Marquis  of  Breadalbane's  example 
in,  466-67  ;  interesting  case  of  a 
Perthshire  landed  proprietor  in,  473  ; 
various  Disruption  incidents  in,  517  ; 
Free  Church  aid  during  the  famine 
in,  1846,  654;  religious  revival  there, 
655  ;  their  appeal  for  supply  of  religi- 
ous ordinances,  1844,  649  ;  instances 
of  Disruption  zeal  in,  649-50  ;  subse- 
quent condition  of  the  Established 
Church  in,  650-51  ;  case  of  an  Estab- 
lishment missionary  there,  651  ; 
requirements  in  Gaelic-speaking  dis- 
tricts, 651  ;  itinerant  deputation  sent 
to,  headed  by  Rev.  Dr.  M 'Donald, 
652  ;  encouragement  to  Gaelic 
students,  652  ;  The  Breadalbane 
schooner,  652-53  ;  relief  sent  for 
famine  in  1846,  654  ;  eagerness  for 
religious  services,  655  ;  the  iron 
"Floating  Church,"  655-56  ;  the  old 
"store-house"  at  Resolis,  657  ;  open- 
air  meetings,  658  ;  Skye,  religious 
movement  throughout,  1842,  658  ; 
Ross-shire,  preaching  in,  1845,  660  ; 
summary  of  results,  665  ;  "The  Men" 
and  their  influence  characterised, 
666-82  ;  signal  Communion  seasons, 
667  ;  a  fanatical  movement  of  last 
century  in  the  Highlands,  due  to 
Moderatism,  676  ;  fanaticism  checked 
by  the  Disruption,  677  ;  tendency  to 


Antinomian  views,  677  ;  subsequent 
strong  attachment  to  the  Free 
Church,  681  ;  St.  Kilda,  results  of 
the  Disruption  there,  691-9 ;  inci- 
dents in  a  rural  parish,  1843,  709. 

Hill,  Sir  William,  Madras,  510. 

Hislop,  Rev.  Stephen,  Nagpore,  510. 

Hodge,  Rev.  Dr.,  of  IPrinceton,  U.S.A., 
547-48  ;  on  the  Free  Church  testi- 
mony, 621. 

Hog,  Esq.,  J.  Maitland,  of  ISTewli.ston, 
gives  a  church  and  manse  at  Kirk- 
liston, 269. 

Hog,  James  Maitland,  Esq.,  of  Newlis- 
ton,  462  ;  at  Keith,  1843,  703. 

Holyrood  Home  Mission,  Edinburgh, 
begun  by  St.  Luke's  F.  C.  congrega- 
tion, 738. 

Holland,  address  from  Christian  com- 
munities in,  1843,  551. 

Hope,  Rev.  Peter,  his  hardships  at 
Canonbie,  433. 

Howie,  Rev.  Mr., his  work  in  Glasgow, 
743  ;  on  revival  movement  there, 
1860-61,  779. 

Humble,  provision  for  worship  in  1843 
at,  223  ;  the  worship  in  the  tent  at, 
289  ;  diflSculties  in  procuring  a  site 
at,  253. 

Hungary,  Mission  to  the  Jews  in,  558. 

Hunter,  Rev.  John,  of  Bath,  his  advo- 
cacy of  Disruption  principles,  526. 

Huntly,  ministry  of  Mr.  Cowie  at,  9  ; 
satisfactory  report  from  congregation 
at,  1844,  638. 

Hutchison,  Rev.  Mr.,  of  Uddingston, 
afterwards  of  Johnstone,  pre-Disrup- 
tion  anecdote  by,  702  ;  at  Muirkirk, 
1843,  709. 


India,  Children's  "  New  Year  Offering" 
for  Madras,  1881-82,  727  ;  Sabbath- 
school  contribution  for  Nagpore,  1867, 
727  ;  Sabbath-school  contribution  for 
Jahia,  1871,  727  j  Sabbath-school 
contribution  for  Mission  at  Santal, 
1875,  727  ;  Sabbath-school  contribu- 
tion for  Poona  Orphans,  1880,  728  ; 
Sabbath-school  Children's  subscription 
for  Madras,  1882,  728. 

Inglis,  of  Edzell,  Rev.  Robert,  his 
statement  at  the  Convocation,  55 ; 
his  first  sermon  after  the  Disrijption, 
236  ;  his  privations  for  want  of  a 
suitable  residence,  345  ;  anecdote  of 
a  blacksmith  told  by,  401. 

Inglis,  Mr.  (afterwards  Lord  Justice- 
General),  adverse  to  a  libel  against 
Principal  Brewster,  1843,  792. 


830 


INDEX. 


Inglis,  Mr.,  of  Baillies,  Lochee,  452. 

Ingram,  Dr.,  of  Unsb,'  Shetland,  the 
opposition  he  had  to  contend  with, 
458. 

Innerwick,  first  Free  Church  Service  at, 
109. 

Tnnes,  Rev.  George,  of  Deskford,  his 
testimony  to  the  revival  of  Gospel 
preaching,  7  ;  his  sacrifices  at  the 
Disruption,  177  ;  his  comparative 
\ievf  of  ministerial  "status"  before 
and  after  the  Disruption,  603  ;  on 
"  sei-ious  impressions  due  to  the  Dis- 
ruption," 746. 

Innes,  Rev.  Mr.,  of  Canonbie,  dies  from 
effects  of  exposure,  447. 

lona,  sufferings  of  the  minister  of,  184. 

Ireland,  Presbyterian  Church  of,  her 
sympathy  early  shown  to  the  Free 
Church,  544  ;  North  of,  Free  Church 
deputation  in,  1843,  545  ;  revival 
movement  over  the  North  of,  1859, 
and  its  influence  in  Scotland,  774-80. 

Irvine,  Rev.  Dr. ,  of  Dunkeld,  his  testi- 
mony as  to  Sabbath  observance 
among  Dissenters,  714. 

Irving,  Rev.  Lewis,  gives  help  to  the 
people  of  Wanlockhead,  444. 

Irving,  Dr.  Moulin,  oculist,  582. 

Islay,  island  of,  revival  in,  664. 

Italy,  evangelical  labours  by  Fre-  Church 
ministers  in :  Rev.  Dr.  Stewart's 
labours,  554  ;  Sabbath-school  con- 
tribution for  Genoa,  1881,  728. 

Ivory,  Lord,  his  decision  as  to  the 
Barrhead  Church  case,  495. 


Jameson,  Sherifi",  460. 

James,  Rev.  J.  Angell,  of  Birmingham, 
536  ;  on  the  Disruption  movement, 
620. 

James,  Mr.  J.  A.,  London,  alderman, 
542. 

Jedburgh,  interesting  Disruption  inci- 
dents at,  758-60. 

Jeffrey,  of  Girthon,  Rev.  Robert,  his 
testimony  to  the  revival  of  Gospel 
preaching,  7. 

Jeffrey,  Lord,  his  exclamation  on  hear- 
ing of  the  Disruption,  95. 

Johnston,  of  New  York,  provides  in 
part  for  a  church  at  Kirkcudbright, 
269. 

Johnstone,  efforts  of  the  people  of,  in 
support  of  Free  Church  principles, 
170. 

Jollie,  Rev.  Thomas,  of  Bowden,  his 
visit  to  Dumfriesshire  in  1843,  68. 


Jones,  Rev,  Dr.,  continued  effect  of  hia 
evangelical  influence  in  Edinburgh  at 
the  Disruption  period,  459  ;  zeal  of 
his  congregation,  496  ;  his  old  chapel 
(Lady  Glenorchy's),  unfortunately 
made  quoad  sacra,  498. 


Keir,  Dumfriesshire,  sermon  at,  1844, 
636. 

Keiss,  provision  for  worship  in  1843  at, 
217. 

Keith,  Strathbogie,  provision  for  wor- 
ship in  1843  at,  210  ;  memorable 
Communion  season  at,  1843,  703, 
704. 

Keith,  Rev.  Dr.  Alexander,  of  St. 
Cyrus,  lays  the  report  of  the  Jewish 
Mission  before  the  first  Free  Assem- 
bly, 98. 

Kennedy,  Rev.  Dr.,  extract  from  his 
Life  of  Dr.  M' Donald  of  Ferintosh, 
667. 

Kennedy,  Rev.  John,  of  Redcastle,  how 
widely  esteemed  among  Highlanders, 
680. 

Kennedy,  Mr.  Duncan,  catechist,  St. 
Kilda,  1853,  698. 

Kenmore,  Lord  Breadalbane's  liberality 
at,  467  ;  consequences  of  the  Dis- 
ruption in,  750. 

Kerr,  Mr.,  of  H.M.  Office  of  Works, 
his  account  of  St.  Andrew's  Church 
after  the  Disruption,  94. 

Kidston,  Richard,  Esq.,  of  Ferniegair, 
461  ;  prominent  on  behalf  of  Sab- 
bath schools,  1869,  723. 

Kilcalmonell,  Kintyre,  site  and  stones 
refused  at,  453. 

Kildonan,  Sutherlandshire,  origin  of 
"The  Men"  in,  676. 

Killen,  Professor,  of  the  Irish  Presby- 
terian Church,  head  of  deputation  at 
Tanfield,  1843,  544. 

Killin,  Lord  Breadalbane's  liberality  at, 
467. 

Kilmalie,  hardships  endured  by  the 
minister  and  people  of,  179,  238. 

Kilmodan,  persecution  of  tlie  adherents 
of  the  Free  Church  at,  368. 

Kilmorack,  parish  of,  677. 

Kirriemuir,  provision  made  for  woi-nhip 
in,  1843,  210. 

Kilsyth,  revivals  in  1742  and  1839  at, 
8 ;  the  farewell  to  the  Establish- 
ment, 111;  first  Free  Church  sermon, 
112  ;  beadle  adheres  for  one  day  to 
the  Parish  Church,  166  ;  recollections 
of  the  meetings  in  the  tent  at,  287  ; 


INDEX. 


831 


its     weavers     "strengthening     their 

minister's  hands,"  450  ;  referred  to, 

458  ;    its  quoad   sacra  church,   458  ; 

fresh    revival    movement    at,    1860, 

776. 
Kiltarlity,  visit  of  a  deputation  to,  64. 
Kiltearn,  Ross-shire,  in  1843,  650. 
Kilwinning,   Ayrshire,   zealous  aid   by 

female  friends    of   the  Free  Church, 

originating  there,  457. 
King,  Rev.  Dr.,  of  Glasgow,  afterwards 

of  Halifa.x,  N.S.,  563. 
Kinneff,  provision  for  worship  in  1843 

at,  213. 
Kinnoul,     Lord,    contributors    to    the 

Free     Church     persecuted     by     the 

factor  of,  361. 
Kintore,  first  Free  Church  service  at, 

117  ;  people  compelled  to  build  their 

church  within  flood-mark  of  the  Don, 

255, 
Kintore,    the    Eai-1    of,    distinguished 

as  a  friend  of  Sabbath  schools,  1878, 

724. 
Kippen,  Rev.  Mr.,  of  Raasay,  at  Sni- 

zort,  1863,  667. 
Kirk,    Rev.    John,     of     Arbirlot,     his 

sacrifices  at  the  Disruption,  179. 
Kirkbean,     post-Disruption     meetings 

for  revival  of  religion  at,  765. 
Kirkhill,    rapid  erection   of   a   wooden 

church  at,  220. 
Kirkmaiden,     accommodation    of    the 

minister  of,  in  1843,  178. 
Knapdale,     revival     of     religion     in, 

1844-45,  663. 


Laird,    Rev.    Dr.,    of    Portmoak,    at 

Assembly  of  1844,  630. 
Lairg,   persecution  of  the  minister  of, 

by    the    Duke    of   Sutherland,    188 ; 

treatment  of  paupers  adhering  to  the 

Free  Church  in,  363. 
Lamb,  of  Kirkmaben,   Rev.  John,   his 

sacrifices  at  the  Disruption,  178  ;  his 

death  accelerated   by  his  labours  in 

Stranraer,  382. 
Lanark,  siezure  of  St.  Leonard's  Church 

at,  496. 
Lanarkshire,    revival    movements    in, 

1860,  77.5. 
Landsborough,     Rev.     Dr.    David,    of 

Stevenston,    his    testimony    to     the 

revival  of   Gospel  preaching,  7  ;    his 

journal  of  the  Convocation,  52  ;  his 

thoughts   of  impending    Disruption, 


60 ;  his  feelings  on  the  rejection 
of  the  Claim  of  Right,  77  ;  incident 
in  his  walk  to  Tanfield,  94 ;  his 
impression  of  the  Free  Assembly,  96; 
his  first  service  to  a  Free  Church 
congregation,  109 ;  his  sacrifices, 
390  ;  his  labours  after  the  Disruption, 
376  ;  exposed  to  indignities,  392 ; 
retrospect  of  the  Disruption,  404 ; 
opens  services  at  Kilwinning,  457  ;  at 
Glenkens,  184.5,  018. 

Landsborough,  Rev.  Mr.,  of  Kilmar- 
nock, account  by,  605-6. 

Langholm,  meeting  held  there  by  a 
deputation  in  1843,  68. 

Langton  Parish  Church  preached  vacant, 
122  ;  provision  for  worship  after  the 
Disruption,  216. 

Larbei't,  influence  of  the  Disruption  at, 
746-9. 

Largo,  provision  made  for  worship  in 

1843,  219  ;  tenants  and  others 
threatened  by  the  heritors  of,  356. 

Largs,  Parish  Church  of,  closed  by 
interdict  against  a  meeting,  65. 

Latheron,  Kirk-session  of,  resolve  to 
adhere  to  the  Free  Church,  164  ;  last 
service  in  the  Parish  Church,  101  ; 
building  of  the  Free  Church,  273 ; 
attempt  by  a  heritor  to  coerce  the 
conscience  of  his  grieve,  359  ;  anec- 
dote of  a  family  broken  up  by  religious 
convictions,  367 ;  the  congregation  at, 
476-7;  in  1843,  650;  referred  to, 
677 ;  revival  movement  at,  1860, 
779-81. 

La  Tour,  Italy,  Theological  Library  at, 
555. 

Laurieston  Free  Church,  Glasgow,  644. 

Leghorn,  congregation  at,  555. 

Leifchild,  Rev.  Dr.  John,  of  London, 
536. 

Lennox,  Mr.,  of  New  York,  provides  in 
part  for  a  church  at  Kirkcudbright, 
269  ;  his  contribution  in  aid  of  the 
missionaries  in  India,  508 ;  as  a 
correspondent  of  Dr.  Chalmers  on 
Home  Mission  work,  737. 

Lesiiiahagow,  its  traditions,  2  ;  farewell 
to  the  Parish  Church,  105  ;  provi- 
sion for  worship  in  1843,  223  ;  service 
interrupted  by  rain,  225  ;  working- 
man  threatened  by  a  heritor,  354  ; 
anecdotes  of  two  elders  of,  167. 

Lethendy  case,  22,  32. 

Lewis,  Rev.  James,  of  Leith,  his  report 
concerning  ejected  teachers,  313  ;  as 
to  zeal  in  Canada,  563;  on  missionary 
contributions  from  Sabbath  schools. 

1844,  727. 


B32 


INDEX. 


Lewis,  of  Dundee,  Rev.  Georcre,  nar- 
rates the  fall  of  the  picture  of  William 
III.  at  Holyrood,  88  ;  his  thoughts 
concerning  impending  Disruption,  59  ; 
his  course  of  six  lectures,  61 ;  his 
testimony  to  the  motives  which  drew 
the  people  to  the  Free  Church,  163. 

Lintrathen,  Mr.  M'Cheyne's  sermon  at, 
585. 

Liverpool,  the  English  Synod  indicted 
to  meet  at,  1843,  529. 

Lochalsh,  Eoss-shire,  The  Breadalbane 
schooner  at,  653. 

Lochbroom,  the  farewell  to  the  Estab- 
lishment, 104. 

Lochcarron,  preaching  in,  1844,  663. 

Lochlee,  451 ;  Freemason  Lodge  at,452  ; 
the  teacher  expelled,  452 ;  tenants 
"  summonsed  "  out,  453. 

Lochs  Parish  Church  preached  vacant, 
123. 

Lockerby,  meeting  at,  held  by  a  deputa- 
tion in  1843,  69. 

Lockhart,  Mr.,  of  Laggan,  Ballantrae, 
farmer,  purchases  a  site  for  church, 
455  ;  his  colloquy  with  Mr.  White, 
456. 

Logan,  of  Lawers,  Eev.  John,  preaches 
at  Rannoch  on  an  inclement  Sabbath, 
227. 

Logan,  of  Eastwood,  Rev.  George, 
death  in  the  manse  of,  139. 

Logic,  the  people  of,  refused  permission 
to  meet  iu  a  gravel-pit  by  the  laird's 
factor,  234. 

London,  Presbytery  of,  in  1843,  523; 
the  Presbyterian  churches  in,  530  ; 
auxiliary  committee  formed  in,  532. 

Long  Island,  Hebrides,  653  ;  Dr. 
M'Donald  sails  from,  to  St.  Kilda, 
1822,  691  ;  reference  to,  697. 

Lorimer,  Eev.  Dr.  John  G.,  of  Glasgow, 
his  impression  of  the  Convocation, 
54  ;  his  thoughts  on  impending  Dis- 
ruption, 58  ;  his  preparation  for  the 
Disruption,  17  ;  his  testimony  to  the 
effects  of  the  Disruption  on  his  people, 
199  ;  his  sacrifices  in  1843,  390  ;  his 
subsequent  labours,  375 ;  referred  to, 
524  ;  Convener  of  Committee  on 
Continental  Protestant  Churches, 
1844,  552  ;  his  comparative  view  of 
mininterial  "status  "  before  and  after 
the  Disruption,  604  ;  his  account  of 
Home  Mission  work  in  Glasgow,  1846, 
739. 

Lumsden,  Principal  James,  his  sacri- 
fices in  1843,  177. 

Lumsden,  Eev.  Mr.,  of  Barry,  in  a  de- 
putation at  Beuholm,  1842,  766. 


Luss,  craving  for  spiritual  life  among 
the  people  of,  162  ;  the  effect  of  the 
Disruption  on  them,  201. 

Lybster,  Caithness,  its  quoad  sacra 
church,  490-1. 

Lyon,  G.,  Esq.,  of  Glenogil,  Tanna- 
dyce,  his  zealous  support  to  the  Free 
Church,  463  ;  at  Oxford,  538  ;  at 
Cambridge,  540. 


M 

M'Adam,  Rev.  Mr.,  of  Glenkens,  re- 
ferred to,  619. 

M'Bean,  Eev.  A.,  of  Greenock,  inter- 
dicted from  the  use  of  his  quuad  sacra 
church,  494  ;  his  first  service  to  a 
Free  Church  congregation,  113. 

M'Bride,  Eev.  Peter,  of  Eothesay,  his 
account  of  "revival"  in  Knapdale, 
1845,  663  ;  his  labours  among  the 
Highlanders  cut  short  by  his  last 
illness,  653. 

M'Bryde,  Eev.  Mr.,  North  Bute,  his 
difficulties  there  in  1843,  605. 

M'Cheyne,  Rev.  R.  M.,  on  connection 
with  the  Covenanters,  6  ;  his  de- 
nunciation of  the  system  of  restricting 
the  preaching  of  the  Gospel,  61  ;  his 
testimony  to  revival  in  Dundee  in 
1836-39,  11  ;  at  the  Convocation,  56  ; 
his  thoughts  on  impending  Disrup- 
tion, 59  ;  visits  Deer  and  Ellon,  73  ; 
his  view  of  the  rejection  of  the  Claim 
of  Right,  76 ;  his  last  work,  83 ; 
preaching  in  Glenisla,  584  ;  his  an- 
swer to  an  interdict  from  preaching 
before  the  Disruption,  748  ;  as  assist- 
ant at  Larbert,  750. 

M'Coll,  Rev.  Mr.,  his  account  of  Home 
Mission  Work  in  Glasgow,  739-44. 

M'Cosh,  Rev.  Dr.  James,  of  Brechin, 
his  pamphlet  on  the  Disruption,  151. 

Macdonald,  Rev.  Dr.  Robert,  of  Blair- 
gowrie, attempts  to  hold  a  meeting 
at  Fintray,  71  ;  his  scheme  for  erect- 
ing 500  schools,  314  ;  anecdote  of  a 
meeting  at  Manchester,  317  ;  of  a 
meeting  in  London,  318  ;  of  his 
journey  from  Wick,  319  ;  his  report 
to  the  Assembly  in  1844,  319  ;  in  Dr. 
Candlish's  speech,  320 ;  Dr.  Grej', 
the  moderator,  thanks  him,  320 ; 
undertakes  to  raise  £10,000  for  the 
New  College,  329  ;  his  anecdote  of 
keeping  a  shilling  and  losing  a  pound, 
330  ;  his  travels  with  this  object,  331; 
announces  in  1845  the  completion  of 
his  task,  332  ;  suggests  to  Dr.  Welsh 
a  plan  for  raising   £20,000   for  the 


INDEX. 


833 


same  object,  332-6  :  anxiety  of  his 
friends  as  to  what  was  to  come  of  his 
family  in  1843,  388  ;  his  testimony 
to  the  content  of  Free  Church  mini- 
sters, 403. 

Macdonald,  Lord,  refuses  sites  in  Skye 
and  Uist,  415. 

IS  I 'Donald,  Rev.  Dr.  John,  of  Urqu- 
hart,  narrowly  escapes  deposition 
for  preaching  the  Gospel  out  of  his 
parish,  161  ;  his  visit  to  the  Presby- 
tery of  Dornoch,  64. 

Macfarlane,  Principal  Duncan,  looks  in 
March,  1843,  without  apprehension 
on  the  threatened  Disruption,  86. 

Macfarlan,  Rev.  Dr.  Patrick,  his  fore- 
fathers, 1  ;  signs  the  deed  of  demis- 
sion, 97  ;  his  sacrifices  in  1843,  176, 
389. 

M'Gillivray,  Rev.  Duncan,  of  Lairg, 
his  trials  at  the  Disruption,  188. 

M'Indoe,  Rev.  R.,  of  Galston,  his 
experience  of  the  summer  of  1843, 
242. 

M'Innes,  John,  elder  at  Tobermory, 
his  wrestlings  in  prayer,  194. 

Mackay,  Rev.  Dr.  A.,  his  account  of 
former  Separatist  meetings  in  the 
Highlands,  677-8. 

Mackay,  Joseph,  of  Reay,  a  leader 
among  "The  Men"  in  northern 
Caithness,  adheres  to  the  Establish- 
ment, o79. 

Mackay,  Rev.  John,  ordained  mission- 
ary to  St.  KUda,  1865,  699. 

Mackenzie,  Rev.  D.,  of  Farr,  his 
experience  during  the  Non-intrusion 
conflict,  17  ;  the  ground  of  his 
resolution  to  go  out,  146  ;  anecdote 
of  his  wife,  142  ;  his  last  sermon  in 
the  Parish  Church,  101  ;  he  conducts 
worship  in  the  field,  222  ;  his  sacri- 
fices in  1843,  181  ;  Disruption  remi- 
niscences by,  579 ;  his  comparative 
view  of  ministerial  status  before  and 
after  the  Disruption,  603  ;  his  ex- 
perience of  continued  Highland 
"  Separatism "  in  1843,  679  ;  testi- 
mony to  benefits  among  Highlanders 
from  the  Disruption,  681. 

M'Kenzie,  Rev.  Hugh  M.  and  Rev. 
W.,  of  Tongue,  their  sufferings  in 
1843,  182  ;  ending  iu  the  death  of 
the  elder,  155. 

M'Kenzie,  Rev.  Colin,  of  Shieldaig,  his 
sacrifices  in  1843,  180. 

M'Kenzie,  Mr.,  of  Alrick,  elder,  narra- 
tive of  Disruption  incidents  in  Glen- 
iflla  by,  582. 

Mackenzie,  Rev.  Mr.,  of  Beauly,  653. 


Mackenzie,  Rev.  Colin,  of  Arrochar,  653. 

Mackenzie,  Mr.  N.,  ordained  as  mis- 
sionary in  St.  Kilda,  1830,  696 ; 
adheres  to  the  Established  Church, 
1843,  695. 

Makgill,  Mrs.,  of  Kemback,  Fifeshire, 
and  her  daughters,  463. 

Makgill,  Mr.  Maitland,  at  meeting  in 
London,  1843,  543. 

M'Intosh,  Rev.  C.  C,  of  Tain,  his 
testimony  to  revival  in  1840,  10  ; 
how  the  news  of  the  rejection  of  the 
Claim  of  Right  reached  Tain,  77. 

M'Lauchlan,  Rev.  'Dr.  Thomas,  of 
Moy,  afterwards  of  Edinburgh,  his 
recollection  of  the  morning  of  the 
Disruption,  89  ;  leaving  the  manse, 
133  ;  first  service  to  a  Free  Church 
congregation,  110  ;  deputy  to  Can- 
ada, 562;  his  account  of  "The 
Men  "  in  the  Highlands,  676  ;  per- 
sonal experience  of  difficulties  caused 
by  "Separatism"  there,  679-80;  at 
St.  Kilda,  1850,  697  ;  as  convener  of 
the  Highland  Committee,  1863-65, 
699. 

M'Lachlan,  Rev.  Simon,  Cawdor,  493. 

M'Lagan,  Rev.  Dr.,  Professor  of 
Divinity,  Aberdeen,  710. 

Maclaren,  ilr.  Donald,  Callander,  signal 
part  taken  by,  in  1843,  471-3. 

Maclean,  Mr.,  of  Coll,  deahng  with  his 
tenants,  422. 

M'Lean,  Rev.  Duncan,  of  Klilmodan, 
his  sufferings  in  1843,  393. 

M'Lean,  Rev.  Mr.,  of  Glenorchy,  653. 

Maclean,  Rev.  Mr.,  of  Tobermory,  653. 

M'Leod,  Rev.  Roderick,  of  Bracadale, 
his  change  of  views,  8  ;  his  sacrifices 
in  1843,  179  ;  anecdote  of  his  wife, 
143. 

M'Leod,  Rev.  George,  of  Lochbroom, 
his  labours  after  the  Disruption, 
377. 

Macleod,  Rev.  Dr.  Norman,  is  the  first 
to  break  up  the  Church,  by  with- 
drawing from  the  Presbytery  of 
Irvine,  79. 

M'Millan,  Rev.  Angus,  of  Lochranza, 
his  education,  licence,  and  leaving 
the  manse  of  Kilmory,  138. 

Macrae,  Rev.  Mr.,  account  of  preaching 
in  Lochcarron  by,  663. 

Macrae,  Rev.  Mr.,  of  Braemar  and 
Knockbain,  statement  by,  1843,  639. 

M'Crie,  Rev.  Dr.,  Edinburgh,  at  the 
union  of  the  Original  Seceders  with 
the  Free  Church,  1852,  730-1. 

Macredie,  Patrick  Boyle  Mure,  Esq., 
of  Perceton,  462  ;  referred  to,  530. 

3h 


834 


INDEX. 


M'Vean,  Rev.  Donald,  of  lona,  his 
suiferings  in  1843,  184. 

Madderty,  stones  refused  to  the  people 
of,  258. 

Makellar,  Rev.  Mr.,  labours  for  two 
months  at  Johnstone,  170. 

Makellar,  llev.  Dr.,  Canonbie,  434. 

Hanson,  Rev.  John,  of  Fyvie,  anecdote 
shomng  that  those  who  remained 
behind  were  not  all  satisfied  that 
they  were  right,  165. 

Marnoch  case,  22,  33  ;  the  parishioners 
leave  the  church  of,  24. 

Martin,  Rev.  Samuel,  of  Bathgate,  his 
speech  at  the  Presbytery  of  Linlith- 
gow in  March,  1843,  84  ;  his  antici- 
pation of  the  consequences  of  the 
Disruption,  383 ;  his  leaving  the 
manse,  134 ;  his  labours  after  the 
Disruption,  375. 

Mather,  Rev.  William,  of  Stanley,  the 
grounds  of  his  resolution  to  go  out, 

'  146  ;  anecdote  of  a  minister  who  had 
turned  back,  192. 

Maule,  Right  Hon.  Fox,  his  motion  in 
the  House  of  Commons,  75. 

Meldrum,  Mr.,  of  Craigfoodie,  Fife- 
shire,  463. 

Melville,  Rev.  Mr.,  of  Logie,  Fife,  his 
statement  of  post-Disruption  advan- 
tages, 640. 

Mellis,  Rev.  David  B.,  of  Tealing,  his 
leaving  the  manse,  132. 

Menmuir,  paltry  persecution  of  the 
people  of,  by  an  Episcopalian  heritor, 
235. 

Methlic,  how  the  people  of,  got  their 
church  and  manse,  249. 

Methven,  anecdote  from  ;  "  Shot  to  get 
a  site,"  272. 

Middleton,  J.,  Esq.  of  Torosay,  attempt 
to  bribe  him  to  leave  the  Free 
Church,  359. 

Miller,  Hugh,  Esq.,  editor  of  The 
Witness  newspaper,  his  visit  to 
Cromarty  in  1843,  226  ;  his  visit  to 
the  Island  of  Eigg,  243  ;  his  descrip- 
tion of  a  service  at  Helmsdale,  222  ; 
his  account  of  a  communion  at 
Kilmalie,  239  ;  his  work  in  editing 
the  Witness,  60  ;  his  memorable 
services,  460-1  ;  his  characterisation 
of  "  The  Men "  in  the  Highlands, 
675. 

Miller,  Rev.  James,  of  Monikie,  con- 
ducts worship  for  nine  years  in  a  loft, 
216. 

Miller,  Professor,  460  ;  on  Home  Mis- 
sion work,  646  ;  howled  to  "go  out" 
at  the  Disruption,  760-1. 


Miller,  Rev.  Matthew,  Canada,  561. 

Miller,  Rev.  Patrick,  of  Dundee,  at 
Keith,  Strathbogie,  1843,  704. 

Miller,  Dr.  A.,  reference  to  (in  foot- 
note), 761. 

Miller,  Rev.  Dr.  Samuel,  of  Glasgow, 
instances  of  his  congregation's  mis- 
sionary liberality,  794. 

Milne,  Rev.  John,  of  Perth,  life  of,  by 
Dr.  H.  Bonar,  13  ;  his  conversation 
with  a  non-adhering  minister  in  1843, 
518-9. 

Milne,  Mr.  George,  Dunnichen,  elder, 
(afterwards  chaplain  of  the  Magdalene 
Aslyum,  Edinburgh),  642. 

Milroy,  Rev.  Andrew,  of  Crailing,  his 
last  sermon  in  the  Parish  Church, 
106 ;  his  leaving  the  manse,  343  ; 
preaches  during  a  thunderstorm,  226. 

Mitchell,  Mr.,  elder,  Strathbogie,  takes 
a  lead  in  evangelical  movements 
there,  1842,  753. 

Moncrieff,  Rev.  Sir  H.  (the  first),  con- 
tinued effect  of  his  evangelical  influ- 
ence in  Edinburgh  at  the  Disruption 
period,  459. 

MoncriefiF,  the  Misses,  of  Southfield, 
Auchtermuchty,  Fifeshire,  464. 

Monikie,  provision  for  worship  in  1843, 
216. 

Monkton,  its  memorials,  2  ;  first  ser- 
vice in  connection  with  the  Free 
Church,  109  ;  increase  of  prayer 
meetings  at,  since  the  Disruption, 
750. 

Monod,  Rev.  Frederick,  at  the  General 
Assembly,  1844,  552 ;  and  1848,  553; 
account  of  Assembly  meetings  in  1844 
by,  635. 

Monquhitter,  provision  made  for  worship 
in  1843  at,  214. 

Monteith,  Alex.  Earle,  Esq.,  Sheriff  of 
Fife,  reports  on  the  increased  expense 
of  building  in  1845,  281 ;  sets  on  foot 
the  scheme  for  erecting  collegiate 
buildings,  329  j  reference  to  biography 
of,  460. 

Montgomery,  James,  the  poet,  testi- 
mony of,  in  favour  of  the  Free 
Church,  402. 

Montgomerie,  Matthew,  Esq.  of  Kel- 
vinside,  Glasgow,  461. 

Montrose,  interdict  at,  1844,  494. 

Monzie,  the  wooden  church  at,  288. 

Moray  Church  Home  Mission,  Edin- 
burgh, 738. 

Morningside,  first  Free  Church  service 
at,  109. 

Mortimer,  Rev.  Thos.,  B.D.,  London, 
526. 


INDEX. 


835 


Mortimer,  Rev.  Mr.,  of  Gray's  Inn 
Road  Chapel,  London,  534. 

Morton,  Mr.,  farmer,  East  Flisk,  451. 

Morven,  Ai-gylesliire,  congregation 
from,  in  the  "  Floating  Church,"  656. 

Mosley,  Rev.  Oswald,  vicar  of  Birming- 
ham, 534. 

Moy,  visit  of  a  deputation  to,  63  ;  first 
Free  Church  service  at,  110  ;  parish 
of,  677  ;  "  Separatists  "  in,  679. 

Muckhart,  how  the  farmers  of,  were 
repaid  for  carting  materials,  228. 

Muir,  John  James,  Esq.,  Glasgow,  461. 

Muir,  Mr.  John,  Glasgow,  distinguished 
as  a  friend  of  Sabbath  schools,  1871, 
728. 

Muirhead,  of  Cramond,  Dr.  George, 
signs  the  deed  of  demission,  97. 

Muirkirk,  the  banner  of  the  covenant, 
at,  282  ;  post-Disruption  labours  at, 
709.  ^ 

Mull,  island  of,  a  site  refused  at 
Torosay  in,  423  ;  referred  to,  1843- 
57,  664. 

Munro,  Eev.  Dr.,  of  Manchester,  his 
church  seized  after  litigation,  530. 

Murray,  Rev.  Dr. ,  U.S.  A.  {"  Kir  wan'"), 
testimony  from,  1843,  549. 

Muthill,  provision  for  worship  in  1843 
at,  214 ;  how  the  Free  Church  was 
built  at,  277  ;  anecdote  from,  show- 
ing how  conscience  worked  on  the 
side  of  the  Free  Church,  165. 


N 

Nagpore,  India,  new  mission  opened  at, 
510. 

Naples,  556. 

Napier,  Mr.  James  S.,  Glasgow,  dis- 
tinguished as  a  friend  of  Sabbath 
schools,  1879,  724. 

Newburgh,  anecdote  of  a  woman  of, 
171. 

New  Zealand,  post-Disruption  move- 
ments in,  569. 

Nice,  556. 

Nicolson,  Dr.  Simon,  Calcutta,  his  con- 
tribution in  aid  of  the  missionaries  in 
India,  508. 

Nicolson,  Rev.  Dr.,  of  Ferry-port-on 
Craig,  at  Hobart  Town,  Tasmania, 
568. 

Nicolson,  Alex.,  Esq.,  advocate. 
Sheriff  of  Kirkcudbright,  Parliament- 
ary report  by,  on  Education  in  the 
Hebrides,  686. 

Nisbet,  Mr.  James,  London,  publisher, 
referred  to,  482;  his  active  sympathv, 
532. 


Nixon,  Rev.  Mr.,  of  Montrose,  on  Sab- 
bath Observance,  1848,  716  ;  preach- 
ing at  Benholra,  1843,  770  ;  on  the 
revival  movement,  1859,  774  ;  his 
account  of  a  religious  awakening  at 
Ferryden,  18G0,  781-4. 

Noble,  Rev.  Mr.,  of  Blairingone,  inter- 
dicted, 491. 

Noel,  Baptist,  Hon.  and  Rev.,  London, 
526  ;  his  active  sympathy  with  the 
Disruption  movement,  533-4. 

North,  Mr.  Brownlow,  at  revival 
meetings  in  Scotland,  778. 

Northumberland,  statement  by  a 
minister  in,  525. 

Nova  Scotia,  Disruption  in  the  Synod 
of,  562. 

0 

Oban,    The    Breadalbane  schooner    at, 

653. 
Ochiltree,  Ayrshire,  457. 
Ochiltree,  reasons  by    a   working-man 

of,   for   leaving  the    Establishment, 

167. 
Olrig,  the  people  of,  put  their  hands  to 

the  work  of  building,  270. 
Old  Meldrum,  how  a  site  was  obtained 

at,  260, 
Orchard,  Dr.,  on  injury  to  health  by 

site-refusing,  446. 
Orr,    Rev.    George,   of   Symington,    is 

interdicted  from  holding  a   meeting 

in  the  Parish  Church,  66. 
Oxford,  the  Free  Church  Deputation  at, 

1843,      538-9 ;     the    vice-chancellor 

of,  639. 
Oyne,  provision  for  worship  in  1843  at, 

218. 


Paible,  North  Uist,  its  people  refused  a 
site  and  oppressed  by  the  factor,  416  ; 
Dr.  jMacintosh  Mackay  preaching  at, 
from  the  door  of  a  cart-shed,  416  ; 
its  people  meet  under  a  rock,  416. 

Paisley,  strong  support  by  its  laity  to 
Free  Church  principles  in  1843,  461. 

Panmure,  Lord,  refuses  to  tolerate  on 
his  estates  any  member  or  adherent 
of  the  Free  Church,  265  ;  his  treat- 
ment of  tenants  at  Lochlee,  453. 

Parker,  of  Lesmahagow,  Rev.  A  B., 
testimony  to  prevailing  apathy  on 
religious  subjects,  160  ;  his  account 
of  the  effect  of  the  Convocation  on 
bis  people,  62  ;  letter  of  his  wife, 
141  ;  his  last  service  in  the  Parish 
Church,  105  ;  conducts  worship  in 
the  fields,  223. 


836 


INDEX. 


Parsons,  Eev.  Dr.,  536. 

Paterson,  Rev.  Dr.  Nathatiiel,  of  Glas- 
gow, his  anecdote  of  a  minister's  wife, 
142  ;  his  first  service  to  a  Free 
Church  congregation,  114  ;  in  the 
deputation  to  North  of  England,  527; 
at  opening  of  a  Free  Church  at 
Glenkens,  1845,  618. 

Paterson,  Rev.  W.,of  Kirkurd,  at  Glen- 
kens, 1845,  618. 

Paul,  Robert,  Esq.,  banker,  Edinburgh, 
reference  to  his  biography,  459  ; 
speech  at  the  Assembly,  1850,  on 
heightened  responsibilities,  625. 

Peebles,  how  a  site  was  obtained  at,  257. 

Peeblesshire,  revival  movements  in, 
1860,  775. 

Peel,  Right  Hon.  Sir  Robert,  his 
dictum  regarding  the  subordination 
of  the  Church,  28. 

Penicuik,  how  a  site  was  obtained  at, 
261. 

Perth,  accommodation  offered  to  the 
congregation  of  St.  Leonards  in  1843, 
212  ;  favourable  weather  in  neigh- 
bourhood of,  after  the  Disruption, 
225. 

Philpotts,  Rev.  Dr.  Henry,  Bishop  of 
Exeter,  his  sympathy  with  the  move- 
ment in  Scotland,  1843,  533. 

Piedmont,  address  from  ministers  of, 
1843,  551. 

Pinkerton,  Rev.  Mr.,  of  Kilwinning, 
narrative  by  (regarding  sites),  473. 

Playfair,  James,  Esq.,  Glasgow,  461. 

Pleasance  Home  Mission,  Edinburgh, 
738  ;  revival  movement  at,  1860-61, 
778. 

Pomaret,  Italy,  grammar  school  at, 
555. 

Poolewe  Parish  Church  preached 
vacant,  123. 

Poonah,  India,  503-5. 

Portpatrick,  diflBculty  of  getting  sand 
at,  259 ;  the  congregation  at,  re- 
markable case  of,  478-9. 

Princeton,  U.S.A.,  testimony  from  its 
Ecvieio,  1844,  548. 

Prochet,  Signer,  1866,  555  ;  his  speech 
at  the  General  Assembly,  1874,  556. 

Proudfoot,  of  Culter,  Rev.  James, 
anecdote  of,  by  Dr.  Hanna,  100  ; 
his  anticipation  of  the  consequences  of 
the  Disruption,  383. 

Prussia,  the  King  of,  his  delegation  to 
report  about  the  Free  Church  move- 
ment, in  1843,  551. 

Purves,  Rev.  Mr.,  of  Jedburgh,  in- 
teresting Disrujjtion  anecdote  by, 
758. 


Quothquan,      Dumfriesshire,      revival 
meetings  at,  1860,  775. 

R 
Raffles,  Eev.  Dr.,  536. 
Rainy,     Rev.    Principal     Robert,     his 

recollections  of    Roseneath  in-  1843, 

244  ;  on  Home  Mission  work,  646. 
Rainy,  Dr.  Harry,  Glasgow,  461. 
Rannoch,  an  inclement  Sabbath  at,  227. 
Rattray,  Mr.,  of  Brewlands,   Glenisla, 

heritor,  589  ;  how  led  to  "go  out" 

at  the  Disruption,  761-2. 
Reay,  Caithness,  677. 
Reed,  Rev.  Dr.  Andrew,  536. 
Renwick,  Rev.  Mr.,  the   well-known, 

referred  to,  619. 
Rescobie,  eilect  of  the  Disruption  at, 

641. 
Eesolis  Parish  Church  preached  vacant, 

125  ;  resistance  by  the  people  at,  448; 

soldiers  fire  on  the  people  there,  448; 

an  old  storehouse  utilised  for  worship 

at,  657, 
Revel,  Dr.,  1866,  555. 
Rhynie,    rapid    erection    of   a   wooden 

church  at,  219. 
Richmond,    Duke    of,    his   hostility   to 

the  Free  Church,  364. 
Riddell,   Sir  James,   refuses  a  site    at 

Strontian,  426. 
Rigg,  Mr.,  of  Tarvit,  Fifeshire,  in  1843, 

his    striking    declaration    for     Free 

Church  principles,  463;  called  "the 

Gains  of  the  Church,"  464. 
Rintoul,  Rev.  William,  Canada,  561. 
Ritchie,  Dr.  Charles,  Glasgow,  461. 
Robe,   Rev,    Mr.,    revival    at    Kilsyth 

under  the  ministry  of,  8. 
Robertson,  Rev.  John,   of  Gartly,  his 

impressions  of  the  Convocation,  54 ; 

efforts   made    to    keep    him    in    the 

Establishment,  385  ;  bis  sacrifices  in 

1843,  391  ;  anecdote  of  a  woman  of 

his  congregation,  167  ;  his  compara- 
tive view  of  ministerial  status  before 

and  after  the  Disruption,  603. 
Robertson,  Rev.  James,  of  Ellon,  moves 

a  resolution  regarding  Dr.   Welsh's 

protest,  173. 
Rochdale,  meeting  at,  537. 
Roden,  The  Earl  of,  his  advocacy  of 

the  Free  Church,  1843,  545. 
Rogers,    Rev.    William,    of    Rescobie, 

referred  to,  641. 
RoUand,  Adam,  Esq.  of  Gask,  432. 
Romanes,  Rov.  George,  Canada,  561. 
Rome,  Waldensian  Church  in,  556. 


INDEX. 


837 


Rosohall,  Sutherlandsliire,  falling  iu  of 
the  roof  of  the  Parish  Church  the 
Sabbath  after  the  Disruption,  121. 

Roslin,  first  Free  Church  sermon  at, 
108  ;  accommodation  of  the  minister 
of,  in  1843,  177  ;  difficulty  in  obtain- 
ing a  site  at,  257  ;  favourable  weather 
at,  after  the  Disruption,  225  ;  tent 
wantonly  destroyed  by  visitors  from 
Edinburgh,  353 ;  communion  roll 
purged  at,  1844,  638. 

Ross,  Eev.  Thomas,  of  Lochbroora,  his 
reception  of  the  news  of  the  Disrup- 
tion, 96 ;  bis  taking  leave  of  the 
Establishment,  104  ;  his  death  in  the 
manse,  140. 

Ross,  ]Mr.,  of  Lessnessock,  gives  land 
for  a  glebe,  457. 

Ross,  Rev.  Mr.,  of  Rattray,  preaches  in 
Glenisla,  1843,  589. 

Ross,  Andrew,  of  Tongue,  Sutherland- 
shire,  one  of  "The  Men,"  672. 

Rosskeen,  revival  there  in  1841,  11  ; 
the  Duke  of  Sutherland  takes  pos- 
session of  schools  built  by  Mr. 
Garment,  312. 

Ross-shire,  effects  of  the  Disruption  in, 
651. 

Rothesay,  first  Free  Church  service  at, 
118  ;  a  servant  girl  contributor  at, 
451 ;  The  Breadalbane  schooner  at, 
659. 

Roxburgh,  Rev.  Dr.  John,  his  labours 
at  Dundee,  15  ;  on  activity  in  Home 
Mission  worlc,  646 ;  on  results  of 
Home  Mission  work,  1859,  744-5 ; 
on  revival  movements,  1860,  774. 

Rum,  island  of,  its  educational  wants 
in  1852,  684. 

Ruthwell,  the  farewell  to  the  Establish- 
ment, 102 ;  first  Free  Church  ser- 
vice, 110  ;  favourable  weather  after 
the  Disruption,  225  ;  accommodation 
for  the  minister  in  1843,  186. 

S 

Sage,  Rev.  Mr.,  of  Resolis,  his  congre- 
gation obliged  to  meet  in  an  oJd 
storehouse,  657. 

Salmond,  Rev.  Mr.,  of  Paisley,  called 
to  Sydney,  Australia,  567. 

Saltcoats  Church  built  on  a  ti-iangular 
site,  284  ;  quoad  sacra  Gaelic  Church 
at,  489. 

Schafifhausen,  Canton  of,  address  from 
ministers  of,  1843,  551. 

Sconser,  Skye,  jireaching  at,  1842,  659. 

Seafield,  the  Earl  of,  refuses  sites,  413. 

Semple,  Mr.,  of  Glenkens,  referred  to,  619. 


Shepherd,  Capt.,  of  Kirkville,  his  re- 
commendation concerning  the  Sus- 
tentation  Fund,  304. 

Shepherd,  Rev.  Mr.,  his  trials  by  open- 
air  preaching,  415. 

Sheshadri,  Mr.  Narayan,  his  "  Bethel " 
at  Jalna,  727. 

Sheuchan,  Wigtownshire,  its  quoad  sacra 
Church,  489. 

Shieldaig,  Ross-shire,  persecution  of  the 
minister  of,  by  the  laird,  180  ; 
preaching  at,  1845,  660. 

Shields,  Rev.  James,  of  Newry,  545. 

Sievewright,  Rev.  J.,  of  Markinch,  his 
first  sermon  after  the  Disruption, 
149. 

Simpson,  Dr.  Robert,  of  Kintore,  his 
first  sermon  to  a  Free  Church  con- 
gregation, 117. 

Simson,  Rev.  Henry,  of  Chapel-Garioch, 
his  privations  for  want  of  a  suitable 
residence,  344. 

Simson,  Rev.  David,  of  Oyne,  his  priva- 
tions for  want  of  a  suitable  residence, 
344. 

Simpson,  Mr.  Archibald,  designs  the 
principal  Free  Church  in  Aberdeen, 
284. 

Simpson,  Sir  James  Y.,  Bart.,  460. 

Simpson,  Rev.  D.,  of  Trinity  quoad 
sacra  Chmrch,  Aljerdeen,  interdicted, 
490. 

Simpson,  Rev.  Mr.,  from  Brechin, 
ordained  at  Glenisla,  1850,  597 ; 
Disruption  reminiscences  by,  763. 

Simpson,  Professor,  Edinburgh,  distin- 
guished as  a  friend  of  Sabbath 
schools,  1880,  724. 

Sinclair,  Mr.  Dugald,  a  threatening 
factor,  454. 

Sinclair,  Sir  George,  Bart.,  on  union 
with  the  "  Original  Seceders,"  1852, 
730  ;  his  statement  as  to  effect  of 
the  Disruption  iu  Highland  parishes, 
650-1. 

Sinclair,  Rev.  Mr.,  of  Lochalsh,  at  Toro- 
say,  1857,  664. 

Sinclair,  Rev.  Mr.,  appointed  to 
Kenmore,  1846,  750. 

Sinclair,  Rev.  Mr.,  of  Huntly,  incidents 
stated  by,  showing  how  strongly 
Disruption  principles  had  impressed 
opponents,  755. 

Skirling  Parish  Church  preached  vacant, 
123. 

Skye  and  Uist,  sites  refused  by  Lord 
Macdonald  in,  415  ;  crofters  expelled 
for  adhering  to  Free  Church  there, 
416  ;  the  Free  Presbytery  of,  ordain 
a  missionary  to  St.  Kilda,  1865,  699. 


838 


INDEX. 


Skye,  island  of,  religious  movement 
throughout,  1842,  658- ;  revival  in 
1843  in,  203  ;  accommodation  of  the 
minister  in  1843,  179. 

Smailholm,  attempt  to  prevent  the 
holding  of  a  meeting  at,  65. 

Snizort,  Skye,  a  communion  gathering 
at,  1863,  667  ;  its  Sabbath  services 
on  that  occasion,  673-5. 

Sommerville,  Rev.  Dr.  J.,  of  Drumel- 
zier,  signs  the  deed  of  demission,  97. 

Southampton,  537. 

Spalding,  Mr.,  of  •  Broomhall,  Glenisla, 
heritor,  590. 

Spence,  Eev.  Dr.  Alex.,  of  Aberdeen, 
his  account  of  a  meeting  at  Fintray, 
73. 

Spelvie,  Loch,  The  Breadalbane  schooner 
at,  653. 

Spragtie,  Rev.  Dr.,  U.S.A.,  testimony 
from,  548. 

Spiers,  Mr.  Graham,  Sheriff  of  Mid- 
Lothian,  made  convener  of  Sites  Com- 
mittee, 410  ;  reference  to  biography 
of,  460  ;  at  Wanlockhead,  440  ;  his 
promotion  of  the  plan  for  a  "Float- 
ing Church  "  on  the  West  Coast,  655. 

Stanley,  unexpected  accommodation 
found  for  the  Free  Church  at,  215. 

Stark,  Rev.  Mr.,  of  Raasay,  653. 

St.  Cyrus,  parish  of,  in  1843,  471. 

Stevenston,  first  Free  Church  service  at, 
109 ;  how  a  site  was  obtained  at,  254  ; 
"  the  auld  cock  of,"  282. 

Stevenson,  Nathaniel,  Esq.,  Glasgow, 
461. 

Stevenson,  James,  Esq.,  461  ;  distin- 
guished as  a  friend  of  Sabbath  schools, 
1872,  723. 

Stewart,  G.  D.,  Esq.  of  Braco,  Perth- 
shire, his  grant  of  sand  to  the  people 
of  Muthill,  279  ;  grants  sites,  457. 

Stewart,  Rev.  James,  of  Aberdeen,  his 
reasons  for  going  out,  144. 

Stewart,  Rev.  Dr.  Robert  Walter,  his 
journey  from  Constantinople  to  be 
present  at  the  Disruption,  88. 

Stewart,  Dr.,  Calcutta,  509. 

Stewart,  Mr.  Patrick  Maxwell,  M.P., 
at  London  Wall  Church,  531. 

Stewart,  Rev.  Dr.,  of  Erskine,  his 
Evangelical  labours  in  Italy,  554. 

Stewart,  Rev.  Mr.,  of  Kirkmichael, 
Glenisla,  589-92. 

Stewart,  Rev.  Mr.,  of  Sorn  (afterwards 

of  Liberton),  606. 
Stewart,  Rev.  Mr.,  of  Blair-Athole,  653. 
Stevvarton  case,  43. 

Stirling,  Rev.  Dr.  M.,  of  Cargill, 
rebuked  by  the  Court  of  Session,  33  ; 


his  first  sermon  after  the  Disruption, 
213. 

Stirling,  seizure  of  the  New  North 
Church  at,  a  peculiar  case,  496. 

St.  George,  the  Count,  553. 

St.  Kilda,  The  Breadalbane  schooner 
at,  653  ;  how  its  people  became  pre- 
pared for  the  Disruption,  691-2 ; 
evangelical  preaching  welcomed  there 
in  1822,  694  ;  manse  and  church 
provided,  and  missionary  ordained, 
1830,  695  ;  their  Disruption  difficul- 
ties, but  unanimous  adherence  to  the 
Free  Church,  696-7 ;  the  proprietor 
yields,  1853,  698  ;  Free  Church 
endowment  of  the  charge,  and  settle- 
ment of  a  new  missionary,  699. 

Stonefield,  Mr.  Campbell  of,  454. 

Stornoway,  Lewis,  The  Breadalbane 
schooner  at,  653  ;  benefits  there  from 
the  Disruption,  681. 

Stranraer  visited  by  the  Rev.  Samuel 
Martin  in  1844,  375. 

Strathbogie,  craving  for  spiritual  life, 
162;  desire  for  Gospel  preaching 
there  in  1843,  749  ;  Free  Church 
ministrations  there,  753. 

Strathaird,  Skye,  preaching  at,  1842, 
659. 

Strathaven,  its  congregation  ejected, 
1843,  494. 

Strathspey,  petty  persecution  of  the 
people  of,  356  ;  sites  refused  in,  413. 

Straiten,  Mr.,  of  Kirkside,  St.  Cyrus, 
his  generous  letter  and  contribution 
to  the  Free  Church  in  1843,  471. 

Strontian  visited  by  Dr.  Begg  after  the 
Disruption,  374  ;  "  Floating  Church" 
at,  427  ;  referred  to,  655. 

Stuart,  Rev.  Dr.  A.  Moody,  on  the 
magnitude  of  the  Scripture  principles 
involved  in  the  testimony  of  the  Free 
Church,  147. 

Stuart,  Moses,  Rev.  Prof.,  U.S.A.,  tes- 
timony from,  1843,  549. 

Sunart,  Loch,  the  "  Floating  Church  " 
in,  655. 

Sutherland,  shepherds  in  a  parish  of, 
resist  the  attempt  to  bind  them  to 
the  Establishment,  360 ;  interesting 
case  of  a  congregation  in,  1843,  649- 
50;  Moderatism  in,  676. 

Swan,  Mr.  P.  D.,  Kirkcaldy,  distin- 
tinguished  as  a  friend  of  Sabbath 
schools,  1873,  723. 

Swanson,  Rev.  Mr.,  of  Eig,  his  trials, 
420. 

Swanson,  "Billy,"  story  of,  421. 

Sydow,  Rev.  Pastor,  sent  from  Prussia, 
1843,  551. 


INDEX. 


839 


Sym,  Rev.  Jobn,  of  Greyfriars,  Edin- 
burgh, farewell  discourse  by,  1843, 
469;  speech  at  the  Assembly,  1852; 
on  increased  responsibilities,  624  ;  on 
longings  for  a  revival  of  religion, 
76.5. 

Symington,  interdict  on  meeting  in  the 
Parish  Church  of>  66  ;  provision  for 
worship  in  1843,  217  ;  shocking  death 
of  one  who  had  wished  he  never  might 
hear  the  Free  Church  bell,  368  (note). 

Syria,  Sabbath-school  contribution  for 
Lebanon  in,  1877,  727. 


Tain,  revival  at,  in  1840-41,  10  ;  magis- 
trates worship  in  the  wooden  church 
of,  221 ;  the  congregation  at,  1845, 
492-3. 

Tanfield,  Edinburgh,  Hall  of,  Irish 
deputation  at,  1843,  544 ;  addresses 
from  Continental  Churches  at,  1843, 
551 ;  Rev.  F.  Monod  in,  1844,  552; 
Dr.  Merle  D'Aubign^,  1845,  552  ; 
deputation  from  the  Protestant 
Church  in  France,  1848,  553  ;  great 
variety  of  nationalities  represented 
there,  553-4. 

Tarbat,  revival  in  1840-41  at,  10. 

Tarbert,  the  people  meet  during  two 
winters  in  its  graveyard,  454. 

Tasker,  Rev.  William,  of  Edinburgh, 
introduces  Mr.  Simpson  at  the  new 
Free  Church  in  Glenisla,  1850,  597  ; 
appointed  to  the  West  Port  Home 
Mission  charge,  Edinburgh,  737  ;  his 
account  of  revival  movement,  1860-61, 
778. 

Tasmania,  reception  of  Disruption 
ministers  in,  568. 

Taylor,  Rev.  J.  W.,  of  Flisk,  his  early 
associations,  2  ;  his  impression  of  the 
Convocation,  56 ;  opposes  the  ex- 
pulsion of  the  quoad  sacra  ministers 
from  the  Presbytery  of  Linlithgow, 
79-84  ;  his  induction  at  Flisk,  and 
address  to  his  parishioners,  153  ;  his 
last  sermon  in  the  Parish  Church, 
101  ;  watches  for  news  of  the  first 
^Free  Assembly,  96  ;  his  leaving  the 
manse,  133  ;  rebuke  addressed  to  him 
for  having  an  over-tender  conscience, 
164  ;  his  testimony  to  the  effects  of 
the  Disruption  on  his  people,  202  ; 
anecdote  of  a  ploughman,  203  ;  his 
retrospect  on  the  Disruption,  405  ; 
induction  of,  470  ;  reference  to  (foot- 
note). 714  ;  his  experience  of  cases 
outside  the    Free  Church   in   which 


spiritual  fruit  was  due  to  the  Dis- 
ruption, 755-6 ;  his  account  of 
revival  movement,  1800-61,  776. 

Taymouth,  Lord  Breadalbane's  liberal- 
ity at,  466. 

Tharp,  Lady  Hannah,  at  Langton 
House  in  1843,  her  liberal  subscrip- 
tion for  a  manse  at  KinuefF,  458. 

Thomson,  Alex.,  Esq.,  of  Banchory, 
commences  the  scheme  for  building 
manses,  347  ;  his  memoirs  referred 
to,  462. 

Thomson,  Rev.  James,  of  Muckhart, 
his  view  of  the  legal  and  constitutional 
aspects  of  the  question,  148;  his 
thoughts  on  impending  Disruption, 
58  ;  his  preparation  for  the  Disrup- 
tion, 18;  his  leaving  the  manse,  133  ; 
his  opinions  on  the  eff'ects  of  the  Dis- 
ruption, 192-9. 

Thomson,  Rev.  Dr.  John,  of  Paisley, 
his  anticipations  at  Yester  of  the 
Disruption,  384 ;  his  leaving  the 
manse  of  Yester,  340  ;  in  deputation 
from  Assembly  of  1844,  636. 

Thomson,  Rev.  John,  of  St.  Ninians, 
Leith,  on  an  attempt  to  prevent  a 
meeting  by  fireworks,  233. 

Thomson,  Rev.  Robert,  of  Peterculter, 
his  death  owing  to  his  privations, 
347. 

Thomson,  Rev.  Charles,  of  Wick,  his 
meeting  with  his  people  after  the 
Convocation,  63. 

Thomson,  Rev.  Dr.  Andrew,  effect  of 
his  preaching  in  Edinburgh  before 
the  Disruption  period,  459. 

Thomson,  Rev.  Mr.,  of  Prestonkirk,  his 
experience  of  post-Disruption  advan- 
tages, 640. 

ThornhiU,  how  a  site  was  obtained  at, 
262  ;  foundation  stone  of  a  Free 
Church  laid  at,  1844,  636. 

Thorburn,  Rev.  David,  of  Free  South 
Leith  Church,  in  Strathbogie,  1843, 
704. 

Tobermory,  anecdote  of  a  prayerful 
elder  at,  194  ;  Free  Church  built  by 
the  people's  own  hands,  271. 

Tod,  Mr.  Thomas,  Glencairn,  farmer, 
619. 

Tongue,  sufferings  of  the  ministers  of, 
after  the  Disruption,  182 ;  a  specimen 
of  "The  Men  "in,  672. 

Torosay,  Mull,  attempt  to  disturb  a 
meeting  at,  68  ;  its  people  forced  to 
meet  on  the  shore  below  high- water 
mark,  424 ;  the  congregation  at,  475  ; 
the  Free  Church  congregation  at, 
1848-57,  664. 


640 


INDEX. 


Torphichen,  opening  of  the  Free  Church 
at,  286  ;  the  first  place  where  a  Free 
Chvirch,  manse,  and  school  were 
completed,  338. 

Torryburn,  provision  for  worship  in  1843 
at,  215. 

Traill,  Miss  Ann,  gives  a  church  at 
Papa  Westra,  269.  - 

Trumisgarry,  North  Uist,  hardships  of 
Rev..  Norman  Macleod  at,  419. 

Tweeddale,  the  Marquis  of,  his  kind- 
ness to  Dr.  Thomson,  of  Yester,  340, 
384. 

Tweedie,  Rev.  Dr.,  his  report  as  to 
"success  of  English  Deputations," 
1844,  543. 

U 

Uist,  South,  education  promoted  in, 
685  ;  the  Glasgow  "Ladies'  Associa- 
tion's" work  there,  688  ;  the  locality 
described,  689  ;  reference  to,  697. 

(Jist,  North,  reference  to,  697. 

Ulva,  island  of,  The  Breadalbane 
schooner  at,  653. 

Unst,  Shetland  Islands,  interdict 
delivered  at, — large  numbers  of 
adherents  there,  458 ;  their  tent 
blown  away  by  a  storm,  459. 

Urquhart,  Rev.  Mr.,  of  Portpatrick, 
478-9. 

Utrecht,  address  from  Christian  com- 
munities in,  1843,  551. 

Uyasound,  Shetland  Islands,  church 
erected  at,  459. 


Vaud,  Canton  de,  the  Disruption  in  its 
Church,  1845,  and  Free  Church 
sympathy  with,  553  ;  Sabbath  school 
contributions  for,  727. 


W 

Walker,  Mr.  John,  a  teacher,  expelled, 
453-4. 

Walker,  John  Lyon,  Esq.,  461. 

Walker,  Rev.  Dr.,  of  Carnwath,  his 
account  of  revival  movement  there, 
1860,  775. 

Wallace,  Rev.  John  A.,  of  Hawick,  his 
appeal  to  his  people  on  the  eve  of  the 
Disruption,  196  ;  his  retrospect  on 
the  Disruption,  196. 

Wallace,  Mrs.,  a  female  teacher,  ex- 
pelled, 454. 

Wanlockhead,  revival  in  1841  at,  12  ; 
description  of,    437  ;  site  refused  at, 


438  ;  the  miners'  petition,  438  ;  the 
cold  of,  439 ;  tent  at,  441 ;  its 
cottage  services,  442  ;  trials  patiently 
borne  by  its  people,  443. 

Watt,  Rev.  Mr.,  Glenisla,  refuses  his 
pulpit  to  Mr.  M'Cheyne,  584. 

Watt,  Mr.  Robert,  Airdrie,  distin- 
guished as  a  friend  of  Sabbath 
schools,  1876,  724. 

Watten  Parish  Church  preached  vacant, 
125. 

Webster,  Mr.,  farmer,  Ballandro,  in 
Benholm,  provides  Mr.  Glen  with 
a  house  rent-free,  1843,  768. 

Weir,  Mr.  James,  precentor  at  Wan- 
lockhead, 441. 

Weir,  Hugh,  Esq.  of  Kirkhall,  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Established  Church,  his 
remark  as  to  the  ejection  of  the  Salt- 
coats Gaelic  congregation,  489. 

Welsh,  Rev.  Dr.  David,  his  forefathers, 
1  ;  his  sermon  on  the  day  of  the 
Disruption,  89  ;  reads  the  Protest  at 
the  Disruption,  90  ;  his  prayer  at  the 
opening  of  the  Free  Assembly,  95  ; 
his  letter  announcing  that  £19,000 
had  been  subscribed  for  the  New 
College,  333 ;  advocates  an  Educa- 
tion scheme,  311  ;  efiFect  of  his 
influence  as  a  professor,  before  the 
Disruption  period,  459  ;  his  zeal  for 
religious  supply  to  the  Colonies,  560. 

Wells,  Rev.  J.,  home-mission  work  in 
Glasgow,  743. 

West  Port  Home-Mission,  Edinburgh, 
736  ;  a  revival  movement  there, 
1860-61,  778. 

Westruther,  difflculties  thrown  in  the 
way  by  the  heritors  to  the  building 
of  a  Free  Church  at,  274  j  how  sand 
was  obtained,  276. 

White,  Rev.  Mr. ,  of  Airlie,  preaches  in 
Glenisla,  1843,  589. 

"White  John"  ("Ian  Bean"),  High- 
land catechist,  Ross-shire,  his  state- 
ment as  to  a  revival  there,  660. 

White,  Mr.  James,  Overtoun,  distin- 
guished as  a  friend  of  Sabbath 
schools,  1881,  724. 

White,  Rev.  Mr.,  Haddington,  at  the 
Union  of  the  "  Original  Seceders" 
with  the  Free  Church,  1852,  731. 

Whyte,  William,  Esq.,  Bookseller, 
Cowgate-head  Home-Mission  Church 
built  by  the  Trustees  of,  739. 

Wigton,  visited  by  the  Rev.  Samuel 
Martin  in  1844,  375. 

Wilson,  Rev.  Dr.  William,  of  Dundee, 
his  narrative  of  the  trials  of  the 
people  of   Carmylie   in   obtaining  a 


INDEX. 


841 


site,  263 ;  his  sacrifices  there  at  the 
Disruption,  179  ;  on  results  of  Home 
Mission  work,  1865,  745  ;  Disruption 
reminiscences  by,  762  ;  in  a  deputa- 
tion at  Benholm,  18'12,  766. 

Wilson,  James,  Esq.  of  Woodville, 
Edinburgh,  reference  to  his  biography, 
459. 

Wilson,  John,  Esq.,  Glasgow,  461. 

Wilson,  Rev.  Dr.  John,  of  Bombay,  501 ; 
his  adherence  to  the  Free  Church, 
503 ;  letter  from,  509. 

Wilson,  Kev.  Mr.,  Vicar  of  Southamp- 
ton, 534. 

Will,  Kev.  Mr.,  at  Dunedin,  N.Z., 
570. 

Willis,  Rev.  Dr.,  Principal,  Toronto, 
564-65. 

Wingate,  Rev.  W.,  missionary  in  Pesth, 
502. 

Wood,  Rev.  Walter,  of  Westruther 
(afterwards  of  Elie),  his  visit  to 
Cairnie,  in  Strathbogie,  36  ;  his  second 
visit,  when  he  breaks  the  interdict, 
39  ;  dispenses  the  Lord's  Supper 
there,  41  ;  his  visit  to  South  Dum- 
friesshire with  Mr.  Jollie,  68 ;  his 
address  to  the  parishioners  of  West- 
ruther, 154 ;  his  narrative  of  the 
building  of  the  Free  Church  there, 


274 ;  how  encouraged  in  preaching 
after  the  Disruption,  748  ;  incident 
in  his  experience  as  to  spiritual  fruit 
from  the  Disruption,  756-7  ;  preach- 
ing at  Dryfesdale,  1843,  758. 

Wood,  Dr.  James,  460. 

Wood,  J.  G.,  Esq.,  W.S.,  460. 

Wood,  Rev.  Dr.  Julius,  538. 

Woodside,  Aberdeen,  the  congregation 
adhere  to  the  Resolutions  of  the  Con- 
vocation, 62  ;  provision  for  worship 
in  1843,  219;  the  farewell  to  the 
Establishment,  1'03 ;  the  first  Free 
Church  service,  112-13  ;  collectors 
for  the  Free  Church  threatened,  354; 
efifect  of  evangelistic  deputation  at, 
1844,  639. 

Wright,  John,  Esq.,  461. 

Wynd  Church,  Glasgow,  a  revival 
movement  at,  1860-61,  779. 


Vester,  the  people  of,  erect  a  tent,  229. 
Young,  Mr.,  gives  a  church  at  Burnt- 
island, 269. 

Z 

Zealand,  address  from  Christian  com* 
munities  in,  1843,  651. 


LORIMER  AND  GILLIE«.   PRINTERS.   •?!  ST.  ANDREW  <;QUARE,  EDINBURGK. 


