DOCUMENT_ID: aim-leaflets
TITLE (as printed): [Assorted leaflets]
DATE: n.d. (bound collection, internal dates 1895-1952; Internet Archive catalogues the bound volume "19--")
LANGUAGE: en
SOURCE URL/SHELFMARK: https://archive.org/details/assortedleaflets00afri
EDITION: Internet Archive scan, identifier assortedleaflets00afri; a bound volume of 40 Africa Inland Mission promotional and informational leaflets, undated as a set
TRANSCRIPTION METHOD: copied (Internet Archive OCR, djvu.txt full-text layer; engine/language unrecorded by IA)
TOTAL PAGES: unpaginated by this transcription; see inline page/section markers copied from the OCR where visible
WORD COUNT: 70144

~Tn  la  mJl  /Y) 


/ss  /on 


m  • 


Hollinger  Corp. 
pH  8.5 


■  1  '  - 


®hp  jVfrira  jjnlanii  DHtssinn 

A  Family 
Matter 
Between 
Christians 


LEAFLET  NO.  1— EVA  NGELIZI  NG  AFRICA 


Is  It  Worth  Sending? 


Is  what  worth  sending?  Your  kind  of  Chris¬ 
tianity.  Sending  where?  To  the  foreign  mission 
field.  That  is  the  question  that  was  asked  at  a 
great  gathering  of  young  men  and  women  who 
were  volunteers  for  foreign  missionary  service, 
and  it  is  a  question  that  may  well  startle  every 
Christian.  “Is  your  kind  of  Christianity  worth 
propagating?” 

The  only  kind  of  religion  that  will  make  any 
impression  on  the  heathen  or  pagan  or  Moham¬ 
medan  lands  is  a  supernatural  religion,  a  faith 
with  the  power  of  God  in  it.  That  is  why  Chris¬ 
tian  Science,  Russellism  and  many  other  “isms” 
never  venture  to  operate  except  among  Chris¬ 
tians.  In  the  black,  blank  paganism  of  Africa 
only  the  living  power  of  a  living  Christ  will  put 
white  places  on  the  Dark  Continent. 

Have  you  that  kind  of  a  living  Christ  to  keep 
your  own  life  white?  Only  a  victorious  Chris¬ 
tianity  will  help  on  the  mission  fields.  Are  you 
living  the  Victorious  Life?  Rather,  are  you  let¬ 
ting  Christ  live  that  Life  through  you? 

Charles  E.  Hurlburt,  the  General  Director  of 
the  Africa  Inland  Mission,  when  he  returned 
from  the  heart  of  Africa  in  the  summer  of  1916. 
expressed  his  conviction  that  the  reason  the  Chris¬ 
tian  Church  of  America  was  not  doing  what  her 
Lord  wanted  her  to  do  in  sending  the  Gospel  to 
the  dark,  dead  places  of  earth  was  because  Chris¬ 
tians  were  not  living  the  Victorious  Life. 

A  Rescue  Mission  for  Christians 


An  American  conference  that  has  emphasized 
the  truth  of  the  Victorious  Life  for  Christians 
for  a  number  of  years  was  called  by  one  of  the 
best-known  Christian  leaders  of  America  “A  Res¬ 
cue  Mission  for  Christians.” 

And  is  it  not  true  that  too  many  of  us  Chris¬ 
tians  need  to  be  rescued  from  the  bed  of  ease 


into  which  we  have  fallen,  or  from  the  bushel  of 
business,  under  which  our  light  has  grown  dim 
or  is  going  out?  Rescued  from  selfish,  sinful, 
defeated,  discouraged  lives,  without  vision,  bless¬ 
ing  or  power?  That  is  just  what  the  Gospel 
is  able  to  do  for  Christians,  for  we  need  to  be 
“saved”  continually  by  His  grace  and  power,  in 
our  daily  walk,  as  well  as  to  be  brought  into  His 
family  (Rom.  5:  10.) 

When  Christians  are  brought  out  into  this 
“large  place,”  which  is  ours  in  Christ,  one  of  the 
results  at  once  is  that  we  can  see  a  lost  world’s 
needs  as  God  sees  them.  We  can  begin  to  think 
God’s  thoughts  for  the  world  after  Him.  We  can 
enter  with  our  Great  High  Priest  into  real  inter¬ 
cession.  And  He  can  plan  and  work  with  and  in 
us  that  Jesus  may  be  known  in  the  lands  lying 
in  darkness  and  the  shadow  of  death. 

“Don’t  Scold  Us — Tell  Us!” 


A  missionary  who  returned  from  Africa  just  as 
America  was  being  drawn  into  the  great  world 
war  was  deeply  stirred  as  she  read  the  accounts 
of  how  men  and  money  were  pouring  in  for  the 
defense  of  her  country.  She  rejoiced  and  was 
thrilled  at  the  way  patriotism  was  rousing  men; 
but  she  thought  of  her  Africa,  and  how  quickly 
American  Christians  could  send  the  Gospel  to 
l  he  poor  dark  souls  if  they  only  would.  This  mis¬ 
sionary,  greatly  stirred  up  as  she  was,  came  back 
with  a  mood  for  scolding  her  fellow-Christians 
for  -their  cruel  neglect  and  apathy.  But  when  she 
began  to  tell  the  need  as  she  saw  it,  these  same 
Christians  came  to  her  and  said,  “Don’t  scold  us. 
We  did  not  know  about  it.  Just  tell  us,  and  we 
will  be  ready  to  help  meet  the  awful  need.” 

So  here  was  a  second  secret.  It  is  true  that 
Christians  are  not  living  victorious  lives,  but  it  is 
also  true  that  few  realize  the  need  over  there  as 
they  do  the  need  of  a  starving  or  wounded  person 
before  their  eyes.  This  leaflet  is  to  help  in  the 
telling. 


What  a  Young  Scotchman  Heard! 

When  we  throw  open  all  the  doors  of  our  life 
to  Jesus  and  let  Him  have  an  opportunity  to  tell 
us  what  is  most  upon  His  heart,  one  of  the  first 
things  He  is  likely  to  say  is  what  He  said  to  His 
disciples  just  before  He  ascended  to  glory.  A 
young  Scotchman  some  thirty  years  ago  yielded 
his  life  to  God,  and  those  words,  “Go  ye  into  all 
the  world,”  were  among  the  first  that  his  Lord 
spoke  to  him.  As  a  result,  Peter  Cameron  Scott 
went  to  Africa.  Returning  after  a  short  time  in 
broken  health,  but  with  a  heart  still  burning  for 
the  Dark  Continent,  he  studied  the  map  of  Africa, 
and  discovered  that  high  tablelands  went  into  the 
center  of  the  continent  from  the  east  coast.  He 
conceived  a  p’an  to  plant  mission  stations  across 
these  tablelands,  on  which  the  white  missionary 
could  live  and  work,  and  then  train  the  native 
to  go  into  the  lowlands  and  preach  Christ  to 
his  fellows. 

Peter  Cameron  Scott  laid  his  plan  before 
Charles  E.  Hurlburt  and  James  H.  McConkey, 
and  with  the  counsel  of  Dr.  A.  T.  Pierson  these 
men  and  others  stepped  out  on  faith  to  support 
Scott  in  the  great  project.  In  1895  Scott,  with 
six  other  missionaries,  set  out  for  the  east  coast 
of  Africa,  and  thus  began  the  Africa  Inland  Mis¬ 
sion.  The  plan  of  this  new  mission  was  to  reach 
the  tribes  in  central  Africa,  among  which  no 
missionaries  were  working,  and  which  the  regular 
denominational  mission  boards  could  not  then  un¬ 
dertake. 

What  Is  a  Faith  Mission? 


Twenty-two  years  have  passed  since  the  first 
party  sailed.  Today  there  is  a  missionary  force 
of  180,  occupying  thirty-two  stations  (besides  out- 
stations  manned  by  the  natives),  in  thirteen  dif¬ 
ferent  tribes,  speaking  ten  different  languages, 
and  located  in  four  territories,  namely,  British 
East  Africa,  German  East  Africa,  East  Congo  and 
Northeast  Congo. 


The  Africa  Inland  Mission  is  what  is  called  a 
“faith  mission.”  This  does  not  mean  that  all  mis¬ 
sions  working  under  our  Lord  Jesus  are  not  faith 
missions,  for  in  a  true  sense  they  are.  But  the 
first  missionaries  that  went  out  had  no  board 
in  back  of  them;  they  prayed  to  God  to  send  them 
money  to  go,  and  looked  to  Him  to  provide  all 
future  needs.  From  that  day  no  appeal  for  funds 
has  been  made,  and  the  specific  needs  of  the  mis¬ 
sion  have  never  been  made  public.  The  “Faith 
Basis”  does  not  signify  that  it  is  the  only  scrip¬ 
tural  method,  nor  that  it  is  superior  to  other 
methods,  nor  that  the  supply  of  needs  in  answer 
to  prayer  is  in  any  sense  a  reward  of  merit. 
What  it  does  signify  is  that  this  is  one  of  the 
methods  God  has  been  pleased  to  use  in  mission 
work,  and  that  the  members  of  the  Africa  Inland 
Mission  believe  that  God  has  called  them  to  use 
this  plan,  and  has  put  His  seal  upon  it  in  these 
years  of  His  wonderful  working. 

The  members  of  the  mission  do  feel  that  they 
have  a  great  duty  to  Christians  of  all  evangelical 
denominations  to  make  known  the  great  faithful¬ 
ness  of  God  in  answering  prayer,  and  to  tell  of  the 
way  He  has  been  working  through  these  mission¬ 
aries  in  Africa,  and  most  of  all  to  sound  the  call 
for  the  evangelization  of  all  Africa. 

On  to  That  Last  Frontier! 

In  the  path  of  the  mission  lies  a  territory  wholly 
unreached  by  Gospel  that  measures  a  thousand 
miles  by  a  thousand  miles,  inhabited  by  untold 
millions.  South  and  adjacent  to  this  territory  is 
another  vast  tract  eight  hundred  miles  and  from 
two  to  five  hundred  miles  wide,  also  without  the 
knowledge  of  the  Saviour.  These  territories  con 
stitute  the  largest  unevangelized  portion  of  the 
earth’s  surface,  and  for  this  reason  has  been 
called  THE  LAST  FRONTIER. 

When  the  General  Director  came  from  the  field 
a  little  over  a  year  ago,  with  the  need  of  Africa 
fresh  upon  his  soul,  he  called  upon  the  Home 
Councils  of  the  Mission  to  pray  for  a  hundred 


missionaries  to  add  to  the  force.  There  were 
about  125  missionaries  at  that  time,  and  the 
brethren  were  rather  staggered  at  the  proposal 
to  pray  for  such  an  increase.  But  they  began  to 
pray.  And  they  began  to  believe  that  this  hu¬ 
manly  impossible  thing  would  be  done.  In  six 
weeks  after  they  started  to  pray,  100  young  men 
and  women  had  applied  to  the  mission  to  be  sent 
to  the  field.  Today  more  than  half  of  these  are 
on  their  way  to  the  stations  in  Africa. 

A  Thousand  in  Two  Years 


Will  you  be  one  of  the  intercessors  to  pray 
that  a  thousand  more  may  go  out  within  two 
years?  They  are  all  needed,  and  more.  Evan¬ 
gelists,  teachers,  doctors,  nurses,  industrial  work¬ 
ers,  translators  skilled  in  language  study,  in  al¬ 
most  unlimited  numbers,  will  find  fullest  oppor¬ 
tunities  for  the  exercise  of  their  powers  and 
training. 

When  men  are  making  unlimited  sacrifice  of  life 
and  fortune  today,  shall  the  soldiers  of  Christ  be 
found  wanting  when  He  calls  to  a  missionary  war 
that  in  all  the  years  since  His  first  coming  has 
never  been  in  a  more  critical  state,  or  in  a  condi 
tion  more  fraught  with  eternal  possibility? 


The  management  of  the  Africa  Inland 
Mission  is  vested  in  Home  Councils  in  Aus¬ 
tralia,  the  British  Isles  and  North  America. 

For  additional  literature;  sample  copies  of 
“Inland  Africa,”  the  monthly  organ  of  the 
Mission,  or  for  any  further  information,  ad¬ 
dress  the  Africa  Inland  Mission,  356  Bridge 
Street,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y.,  where  the  executive 
offices  of  the  Mission  are  located.  Checks 
and  money  orders  that  individuals  or  churches 
may  be  led  to  send  should  be  made  payable 
to  the  Africa  Inland  Mission. 


The  Africa  Inland  Mission 

The  Story  of  Mucai  - 
His  Black  Brothers 


They  are  taking  their  first  steps  in  learning  to 
recognize  letters  and  put  them  together  into 
sounds  and  then  into  words.  It  is  a  beginner’s 
class  in  a  school  like  Mucsi’s. 


LEAFLET  NO.  2  —  REACH  I NG  AFRICA’S  BOY’S  AND  MEN 


MUCAI  had  put  away  clothing  and  soap,  and 
put  on  his  grease  and  castor  oil.  When 
the  missionaries  first  met  Mucai,  he  was 
a  pagan  black  boy  of  eighteen,  belonging 
to  the  Kikuyu  tribe  in  British  East  Africa.  He 
had  no  thought  for  the  mission  school  in  his  vil¬ 
lage,  for  his  delight  was  to  excel  in  the  evil  dances 
and  to  win  the  applause  of  the  young  women  when 
he  shone  resplendent  in  his  red,  white  and  yellow 
paint,  smeared  in  clown-like  designs  over  the  coat 
of  grease. 

The  soap  and  the  clothes  belonged  to  Mucai’s 
life  on  the  farm,  while  working  for  the  white 
settlers.  But,  according  to  the  custom  of  the 
native  boys,  Mucai  would  take  frequent  vacations 
of  several  weeks’  duration,  supplying  another  boy 
to  take  his  place  on  the  farm.  Back  to  the  native 
reserve  he  would  go,  back  to  the  wild,  sinful 
pleasures  of  pagan  Africa.  For,  though  he  may 
have  family  business  in  his  village  connected 
with  the  long-drawn-out  lawsuits  to  secure  sheep 
owed  to  his  ancestors,  yet  the  vacation  is  above 
all  for  a  good  time,  in  unrestrained  indulgence. 

Who  Would  Bury  Her? 


On  this  vacation  trip  that  we  are  interested  in 
a  real  sorrow  had  come  to  Mucai  in  the  death  of 
his  mother,  who  was  taken  by  the  dread  dysem 
tery,  which  often  comes  as  a  plague  and  sweeps 
whole  villages  away.  In  addition  to  the  loss  he 
had  to  bear — and  there  is  a  genuine  family  affec¬ 
tion  among  the  Africans — Mucai,  as  the  oldest 
son,  had  the  responsibility  of  attending  to  his 
mother’s  burial.  And  a  great  responsibility  this 
is  in  Mucai’s  tribe.  To  touch  a  dead  body  means 
defilement,  and  an  elaborate  purification  must  be 
gone  through,  including  the  killing  of  a  sheep.  For 
this  reason  it  is  not  the  easiest  thing  to  get  help 
in  performing  the  last  rites.  Young  Mucai  did 
not  know  where  to  turn,  and  finally  he  went  over 
to  the  mission  compound,  thinking  there  might  be 
possibility  of  help  there.  Probably  he  had  noticed 
that  the  Christian  boys  had  rendered  this  service 
to  others.  In  any  case,  the  boys  belonging  to  the 


mission  school  went  with  him  to  bury  his  mother, 
and  Mucai  was  deeply  touched  by  the  kindness. 
Thus  began  Mucai’s  change  of  attitude  toward 
the  school. 

The  Christian  boys  were  not  slow  to  invite 
Mucai  to  come  to  their  school,  and  one  day  he  did 
visit  it,  dressed  in  his  grease  and  paint.  He  got 
interested,  and  it  was  not  long  before  he  became 
a'  regular  attendant.  Slowly,  bit  by  bit,  the  Gos¬ 
pel  story  sank  in,  and  young  Mucai  was  eager  to 
follow  on  and  become  a  Christian.  No  one  but 
those  who  have  lived  with  it  can  understand  what 
it  means  to  give  up  the  pagan  practices  that 
constitute  all  of  life’s  interest  to  these  young 
men.  But  Mucai  drew  away  from  his  old  life,  and 
finally  came  the  complete  break,  and  he  was 
baptized  into  the  Body  of  Christ. 

The  New  Mucai 


When  a  boy  in  a  mission  school  in  Africa  finds 
Christ,  it  is  indeed  only  the  beginning.  What 
nurture  and  care  is  needed!  What  danger  of 
backsliding  there  is!  How  has  Mucai  turned 
out?  Just  two  pictures  will  tell  the  story,  and 
as  you  try  to  see  the  pictures  as  the  missionary 
saw  them,  remember  that  there  are  thousands  of 
Mucais  in  Africa. 

The  first  picture  is  the  little  early  morning 
Gospel  meeting,  in  which  the  missionary  speaks 
to  the  young  men  who  are  teachers  in  the  village 
schools  or  in  the  out-station  schools.  Mucai  is  in 
the  group,  for  he  is  a  native  teacher,  in  charge  of 
one  of  the  little  grass  houses  some  miles  from  the 
central  Mission,  in  the  one  room  of  which  several 
grades  of  school  are  conducted  at  the  same  hours. 
Before  going  to  their  schools,  the  teachers  meet 
for  prayer,  and  the  missionary  tells  again  the 
never  old  story  of  Jesus  and  His  salvation.  Watch 
Mucai’s  face  as  the  story  is  told.  He  has  heard 
it  over  and  over.  But  his  head  is  bowed  down  and 
great  tears  are  falling.  The  missionary  says  that 
Mucai  never  listens  to  the  story  of  what  Jesus  has 
done  without  being  overcome  by  emotion.  For 
had  not  Jesus  suffered  all  that  for  Mucai — poor, 
ignorant  pagan  boy,  one  of  the  tiny  black  specks 
in  the  vast  Dark  Continent? 


For  the  other  picture  we  must  go  with  the 
missionary  on  the  tour  of  inspection  to  see  how 
the  native  boys  are  conducting  their  schools.  We 
enter  the  little  room  where  Mucai  has  charge, 
and  the  visit  is  quite  unexpected  and  unan¬ 
nounced,  for  the  missionary  must  see  what  is 
going  on  at  ordinary  times  when  they  are  not 
preparing  for  inspection.  Usually  there  are  all 
ages  in  these  schools,  from  little  children  of  pri¬ 
mary  age  to  grown  men.  Many  come  to  learn  to 
read  and  write  and  have  no  special  interest  in  the 
white  man’s  religion.  Other  wild  boys  come  be 
cause  the  members  of  the  schools  are  ordinarily 
exempt  from  government  service  during  their 
school  term.  One  of  the  problems  is  to  weed  out 
those  boys  who  are  not  regular  and  in  earnest. 
Altogether  it  is  not  an  easy  crowd  to  manage, 
and  discipline  is  often  an  important  feature  of 
the  work. 

There  are  different  grades  in  the  same  room, 
and  the  teacher,  who  is  really  a  supervisor,  gives 
out  the  work  and  puts  the  younger  classes  in 
charge  of  some  of  the  more  advanced  students.  A 
picture  of  ore  of  the  beginners’  groups  is  shown 
on  the  front  page.  When  we  enter  Mucai’s  school, 
whatever  the  hour  or  day  may  be,  we  are  struck 
at  once  at  the  wonderful  order.  The  missionary 
says  that  always  his  hand  is  upon  the  situation 
like  a  commander-in-chief  of  an  army.  Nothing 
but  attention  to  the  business  in  hand  will  he 
tolerate,  and  he  does  it  with  quiet  dignity.  When 
the  regular  school  session  is  over,  all  gather 
together  for  the  Gospel  message.  And  with  what 
fervor  and  love  Mucai  tells  the  story,  in  simple 
terms  that  they  can  understand.  Week  after 
week  the  change  in  the  pupils  can  be  noticed,  as 
they  come  closer  to  a  knowledge  of  Jesus,  and  one 
by  one  take  Him  as  their  Saviour.  Then  they 
become  workers  for  their  fellows. 

The  War  in  German  East  Africa 


Mucai’s  school  is  under  the  Africa  Inland  Mis¬ 
sion,  whose  workers  are  reaching  out  into  the 
tribes  and  villages  in  British  East  Africa,  German 
East  Africa  and  the  Belgian  Congo.  The  war  is 
cutting  into  the  work  through  the  calling  of  na- 


tive  teachers  and  evangelists  and  the  older  pupils 
to  act  as  carriers  for  the  soldiers.  This  has  been 
particularly  the  case  in  German  East  Africa,  and 
no  report  of  the  school  work  in  that  territory 
has  come  recently. 

Prom  a  partial  report  of  the  other  fields,  re¬ 
ceived  in  the  summer  of  1917,  there  were  1208 
boys  enrolled  in  these  out-station  schools,  212 
girls,  and  in  the  village  schools  a  total  of  730 
making  in  all  21&0. 

Will  you  pray  for  them  and  their  teachers? 
Pray  that  many  like  Mucai  may  be  raised  up. 
Tray  that  the  scores  of  Christian  young  men  sent 
for  army  work  may  carry  the  message  of  Christ 
with  them. 

Will  You  Pray  for  This? 

There  are  over  700  languages  and  dialects  in 
Africa  that  have  not  yet  been  reduced  to  writing. 
Does  that  give  you  a  little  glimpse  of  the  mis¬ 
sionary  problem  of  the  Dark  Continent? 

The  Africa  Inland  Mission  is  working  among 
thirteen  tribes  in  ten  different  languages.  These 
ten  represent  the  three  great  groups  of  languages 
in  Africa,  the  Bantu,  the  Hamitic  and  the  Negro 
in  these  little  schools  reading  and  writing  is 
taught  by  a  simple  and  effective  system,  using, 
the  Italian  alphabet.  Many  come  into  the  schools 
with  an  eagerness  to  learn  and  with  no  intention 
to  find  salvation.  Thus  does  the  very  difficulty 
of  preaching  to  those  who  cannot  read  and  write 
work  out  for  the  furtherance  of  the  Gospel.  For 
some  of  the  finest  converts  are  from  the  ranks  of 
these  indifferent  ones. 

Will  you  pray  for  Africa’s  boys  and  young  men? 
Pray  for  workers  to  be  sent  out  who  love  young 
men.  A  missionary  trained  in  athletics  and  gym¬ 
nastics  would  have  a  thrilling  opportunity  to 
reach  the  warrior  class,  who  are  among  the  most 
difficult  to  get  into  school  or  to  pay  attention  to 
the  Gospel.  And  trained  men  are  needed  for 
translation  work  and  for  supervising  the  educa¬ 
tion  of  large  districts. 

Above  all,  pray  that  an  increasing  number  of 
American  Christians  may  have  a  share  of  Christ’s 
love  for  the  Mucais  of  Africa;  yes,  and  of  Mucai's 
love  for  the  Lord  Jesus. 


The  Africa  Inland  Mission  is  a  Faith  Mission  un¬ 
der  the  management  of  Home  Councils  in  Australia, 
the  British  Isles  and.  North  America.  The  missionary 
force  at  present  writing  numbers  about  175.  No  ap¬ 
peal  for  funds  is  made  nor  collections  taken,  the  work 
being  supported  by  offerings  that  individuals  or 
churches  may  be  led  voluntarily  to  give.  For  additional 
literature:  for  sample  copies  of  “Inland  Africa,”  the 
monthlv  organ  of  the  Mission,  or  for  any  further  in¬ 
formation  address  the  Africa  Inland  Mission,  356 
Bridge  Street,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y.,  where  the  executive 
offices  of  the  Mission  are  located.  Checks  and  money 
orders  should  be  made  payable  to  the  Africa  Inland 
Mission. 


.2  v  y 

X  s 

§  .  1" 

c  2  u 

‘Z  a  2 


sS5.5'o35 
sr »=2.q  2 » 

M  fl>  O  D-3  3  3 

S-SSg&SB. 

*  M  O  „0  <  “ 


3'«  ro  3 

^TO  «,n>  td£ 


—  ^  2  w  to  ■  - 

o.»5g,po 

G3 

O*  T*1  ^  "1  rfl 

"S^gSj 

3  2.  O  M  3 
3  0  0  ~tJ 
P  3  ?r  r*  -  — 

8ff& 

•rt  O  ‘ 

p  ^^>^’2. 

PO-  3  0$ 

2£^o“ 
o 

o'  3  {? 
-.OS'S*' °  2. 

3  3  p 
(5  <®  (5  &  M  3 

>*v  B0, 

S"  Wg-*  s, 

?,*  a«,S 


••8a’'  ••-  s, 

gic^S-3^ 

.So  3  2  P  2. 
'■<  2  S’ 3  o 

3,^.  w  $  2Lp  p» 

(  n>  —  3  o  cp 

|^p,»  rhM  ®  £ 

o*  3  >  P  3  S' 

Gut-3  ?3<t® 
S  P  ^  ^  3  3 

'<  a^r*ft 
p"o  ^  3  2o  y 
3  r?  3  oq  o  ~>g 

?t(®  ®  rJ  i_H  W 
.p  2.3  3  3*S“. 

■s  5'n  C  o  o 

3itrq  O  3  >  3  3 

lUlIo" 

;uq  3*  O  o  °  ^ 

.<£g§-.P§*l 

o>  o  2.P 
^rt^C»5 

•-j~  ^  3“  3* 

o  g;  <f  m  <®  3’ 
"<?£*& 
Grt  •  h 


s  3  rt>  m  5  2. 3  G  rt  ’  5.  >  m 
'“G'Xojggg^wc  “ 

Sis-3?'5 

^  3  ^co=- 

3  O  <  yi3 
G’<  ®  05  I 


At 


the  suggestion  of  the  British  Government  seventeen  chiefs  in  one  district  in  British  East 
Africa  sent  their  sons  to  the  Mission  School  at  Kapropita.  Here  they  are. 

Pray  that  they  may  find  Christ  while  they  learn  to  read  and  write. 


_ 


BLACK 

TM*. 

DIAMONDS 


A  Brief  Sketch  of  the 
Africa  Inland  Mission 


EBONY  JEWELS 

FROM  THE  HEART  OF  AFRICA 

Many  millions  like  these  have  never  heard  of 
Christ 


LEAFLET  NO.  3 


MAY.  19  18 


Africa  Inland  (Mission 

Foreword. 

Some  people  are  always  asking  the  question: 
“What  is  the  profit  of  Foreign  Missions?  Why 
not  use  our  money  here  at  home  where  it  will 
do  the  most  good?"  The  answer  is  very  simple. 
It  is  found  in  the  history  of  the  church.  If 
Paul  had  not  become  a  foreign  missionary  and 
traveled  west,  where  would  we  be  in  civiliza¬ 
tion  and  spiritual  enlightenment  today?  If 
the  Gospel  had  been  taken  east  rather  than  west, 
we  in  America  would  be  in  heathen  darkness 
like  the  Chinese  today,  instead  of  enjoying  all 
these  Christian  privileges.  The  profit  of  For¬ 
eign  Missions  is  very  evident. 

Africa  a  few  decades  ago  was  only  a  sea 
coast  line  on  the  map.  Nothing  was  known  of 
the  interior  and  our  geographys  left  all  the 
center  blank  and  marked  it  unknown.  One 
of  the  profits  of  foreign  missions  of  the  last 
century  is  that  this  largest  of  all  our  conti¬ 
nents  is  made  known  to  the  world  and  all  her 
ports  open  to  trade.  This  wonderful  country 
has  been  entered  by  the  heroes  of  the  cross  from 
several  points,  one  of  them  by  the  Africa  In¬ 
land  Mission.  This  Mission  has  come  in  from 
Mombasa  on  the  east  coast  and  taken  posses¬ 
sion  of  a  high  plateau  country  running  north¬ 
west  and  southeast,  about  one  thousand  miles 
long  and  four  hundred  miles  wide.  Here  dwell 
many  tribes  of  people  numbering  some  70  mil¬ 
lions,  who  have  never  before  been  touched 
with  the -Gospel. 

History, 

When  Rev.  Peter  Cameron  Scott,  the  founder 
of  the  Africa  Inland  Mission,  in  1895,  with 
seven  others,  entered  this  country  it  was  but  a 
wilderness  of  warring  tribes.  On  the  morning 
of  November  12,  1895,  all  preparations  being 
completed,  the  little  band  of  missionaries  start¬ 
ed  on  their  journey  into  the  interior.  The  cara¬ 
van  consisted  of  forty-two  camels,  about  300 
men  including  military  escort.  The  latter  was 
thought  necessary  as  a  famous  Arab  Chief, 


Burial  Place  .of  the  Founder  of  the  Africa  Inland 
Mission.  Left  to  Right,  Dr.  Davis,  Tom  Hanney, 
Hugh  Wallace,  Gen.  Director  Hurlburt,  Mr.  G.  Rhoad. 

Mbaruk,  was  in  rebellion  against  the  govern¬ 
ment.  When  they  arrived  at  Rabai,  a  C.  M.  S. 
station,  they  heard  Mbaruk  had  been  there  only 
a  short  time  before,  and  that,  in  a  conflict, 
thirty  of  his  men  had  been  killed.  They  set 
their  faces  like  a  flint  toward  the  Nzawii  hills, 
some  two  hundred  and  fifty  miles  into  the  in¬ 
terior.  They  came  in  contact  with  lions,  rhino- 
seri,  and  elephants.  Their  porters  deserted 
them;  fevers  laid  them  low;  at  one  time  all  but 
one  of  the  party  were  in  bed.  The  Masai,  an¬ 
other  tribe,  were  murdering  and  plundering  a 
large  section  of  country  at  this  time,  and  travel¬ 
ing  was  exceedingly  perilous.  This  little  group 
of  godly  heroes  succeeded,  however,  in  estab¬ 
lishing  their  first  station  at  Nzawii.  Men, 
beasts,  fever,  the  prince  of  darkness  himself, 
sought  to  shut  them  out  of  the  Nzawii  Valley. 
God  enabled  them  to  press  forward  in  spite  of 
all  these  difficulties.  He  directed  their  steps 
to  a  peacable  people,  (the  Akamba)  in  a  com¬ 
paratively  healthy  location.  Here  240  miles 
from  Mombasa,  near  the  equator,  yet  3000  feet 


above  sea  level,  with  a  temperature  that  falls 
to  50  or  80  degrees  at  night,  a  large  company 
of  people  had  awaited  the  coming  of  the  “Mes¬ 
sengers  of  Light.”  % 

Mr.  Scott  writes  at  this  time,  “In  humble  de¬ 
pendence  upon  God  we  have  moved  steadily  for¬ 
ward,  no  doubt  in  our  blindness  making  many 
mistakes,  but  we  ascribe  praise  to  Him  for  any¬ 
thing  that  has  been  done  which  can  bring  glory 
to  His  name  and  honor  to  His  ause."  Four  sta¬ 
tions  were  established  and  manned  in  less  than 
ten  months.  He  wrote,  “We  have  had  times 
of  trial,  times  of  blessing,  times  of  sorrow,  and 
times  of  joy.  In  a  short  time  Mr.  Scott  was 
stricken  with  haematuria  and  was  called  up 
higher.  The  day  of  his  death,  December  4, 
1896,  he  would  not  let  his  mother  (who  had 
joined  him  on  the  field)  out  of  his  sight.  He 
asked  her  if  she  was  ready  to  go  with  him,  and 
when  she  replied  “Yes,  my  son,”  he  said,  “I  am 
only  waiting  for  you."  He  then  asked  those 
who  were  standing  around  his  bed  if  they  had 
taken  their  hands  off,  and  when  he  had  the 
reply  in  the  affirmative,  he  said,  “Let  us  go 
then."  “Where  to,  Peter?”  “The  eternal  City." 


RAW  MATERIAL 


Then  raising  his  thin  arms,  he  said,  “I  want  the 
arm  of  the  Lord  Jesus  around  me.”  After  these 
King "  passe^  into  Presence  of  the 

Testing. 

Dark  days  for  the  mission  followed.  Two 
other  faithful  souls  laid  down  their  lives,  sev¬ 
eral  others  left  the  mission,  and  famine  closed 
the  first  three  stations.  Mr.  Bangert  remained 
faithfully  at  his  post  in  the  midst  of  the  famine 


MISSION  CHURCH 

and  other  appalling  difficulties.  But  as  it  is  ever 
true  out  of  the  darkness  of  almost  unbearable  cir¬ 
cumstances  comes  new  life  and  blessing. 

Upon  the  death  of  Peter  Scott,  Rev.  Chas.  E. 
Hurlburt,  who  was  president  of  the  Home  Coun¬ 
cil,  was  unanimously  elected  General-director  of 
the  Mission.  Soon  the  one  lone  worker  left  on 
the  field  saw  other  recruits  coming.  God  had 
heard  and  answered  prayer.  Shortly  after  this 
Mr.  Hurlburt,  speaking  of  God’s  faithfulness  in 
the  early  days,  says,  “God  heard  our  cry  and 
without  any  appeal,  save  to  Him,  opened  the  way 
for  us  to  go.  Every  inch  of  the  journey  has 


been  gained  through  prayer  alone.”  Only  a 
short  time  before  this  Mr.  Bangart  was  waiting 
alone  mid  most  terrible  surroundings,  at  the 
very  spot  where  now  there  was  a  company  of 
twelve,  enjoying  the  bright  and  cheery  influence 
of  home  life.  The  work  grew  so  rapidly  that 
in  the  short  period  of  15  years  new  workers  for 
the  Africa  Inland  Mission  were  pushing  on 
beyond  British  East  Africa,  info  German  East 
Africa,  and  today  far  into  the  Belgian  Congo 


NATIVE  CHRISTIAN  WEDDING 

beyond  Lake  Albert.  Most  of  the  Mission  sta¬ 
tions  are  on  high  ground  to  avoid  as  far  as  pos¬ 
sible  the  fevers  of  the  lower  altitudes. 

Maintenance. 

The  A,  I.  M.  is  an  Interdenominational  and 
International  body,  trusting  in  God  alone  for  the 
necessary  funds  for  the  maintenance  of  the 
work,  and  while  faithfully  teaching  the  duty  of 


Christian  stewardship  and  presenting  the  gen¬ 
eral  needs  of  the  mission  and  of  the  unreached 
fields  does  not  present  any  specific  needs,  nor 
ask  men  or  churches  for  money  for  the  work. 
Neither  do  they  believe  in  incurring  debts.  All 
monies  designated  by  donors  for  particular  pur¬ 
poses  are  wholly  set  apart  to  be  devoted  to  the 
object  designated. 

Plan  of  Work. 

The  plan  of  the  mission  is  to  occupy  new  ter¬ 
ritory  rather  than  to  trench  upon  fields  already 
occupied.  As  far  as  possible  they  establish 
native  churches  to  be  self-supporting,  self-ex¬ 
tending  and  self-governing.  There  are  over  200 
missioneri  s  and  over  300  native  evangelists  at 
the  present  time.  The  Mission  has  Councils  in 
America,  England,  Australia  and  South  Africa, 
composed  of  godly  men  who  look  after  the  inter¬ 
ests  of  the  work  in  their  respective  countries. 
It  aims  to  promote  the  widest  possible  evangel¬ 
ization  among  the  tribes  of  Inland  Africa  through 
white  missionaries  and  native  evangelists,  and 
to  work  in  territories  not  being  occuped  by  other 
missionary  societies.  The  mission  is  a  faith 
work,  missionaries  being  sent  out  as  rapidly  as 
the  Lord  supplies  the  funds  in  answer  to  prayer. 

In  the  region  occupied  by  the  A.  I.  M.  there 
are  numerous  tribes  as  yet  without  a  single 
missionary.  In  German  East  Africa  the  govern¬ 
ment  has  requested  the  Mission  to  take  over  18 
stations  formerly  manned  by  German  workers. 
Twelve  tribes  at  the  northwest  of  Lake  Albert 
are  now  open  to  the  Gospel  and  scores  of  mis¬ 
sionaries  c,re  needed  for  these.  Strong,  practical, 
spirit-filled  men  and  women  ought  to  be  on 
these  fields  “white  to  the  harvest.” 

Need. 

The  one  great  pressing  need  is  prayer.  Men 
and  women  who  will  spend  time  each  day  evan¬ 
gelizing  Africa  upon  their  knees.  Prayer  opens 
doors  of  opportunity,  provides  recruits  and  the 
means  to  thrust  them  forth  and  sustain  them  in 
their  new  labors,  raises  up  native  helpers,  sup¬ 
plies  new  native  workers,  plants  new  churches 
and  brings  sufficient  funds  to  maintain  the  work. 


There  is  no  question  of  sufficiency  or  efficiency 
when  we  have  a  company  of  praying  people  with  us. 

Should  you  desire  io  become  a  member  of  the  circle 
of  Intercessory  missionaries  of  the  Africa  Inland  Mis¬ 
sion,  or  if  you  desire  a  copy  of  “Inland  Africa",  the 
monthly  organ  of  the  Mission,  write 

THE  AFRICA  INLAND  MISSION, 

£56  BRIDGE  STREET, 
BROOKLYN,  N.  Y. 

“Our  Interest  in  missions  is  a  mark  of  our 
Christian  Character. 

Our  Knowledge  of  missions  is  the  measure  of 
our  Christian  Attainment. 

Our  Participation  in  missions  is  the  measure  of 
our  Christian  Efficiency” 


WAITING  TO  HEAR 

" Ethiopia  shall  soon  stretch  out  her  hands  unto  Cod ”  Psa.  68:31 
"And  they  shall  be  mine,  saith  the  Lord  of  Hosts,  in  that  do 
when  1  make  up  my  jewels."  Mai.  3:1 7. 


THE  TUBE  IS  SHORT 


* 

t 


“And  that,  knowing  the  time,  that  nowit 

IS  HIGH  TIME  TO  AWAKE  OUT  OF  SLEEP:  FOR  NOW 
IS  OUR  SALVATION  NEARER  THAN  WHEN  WE  BE¬ 
LIEVED.  The  night  is. ear  spent,  the  day  ss 
AT  HAND:  LET  US  THEREFORE  CAST  OFF  THE 
WORKS  OF  DARKNESS,  AND  LET  US  PUT  ON  THE 
ARMOR  OF  LIGHT."  ROMANS  13:11,  12. 


THE  TIME  IS  SHORT. 

“And  about  the  eleventh  hour  he  went  out,  and 
found  others  standing  idle,  and  saith  unto  them,  why 
stand  ye  here  all  the  day  idle: 

“They  say  unto  Him,  because  no  man  hath  hired 
us.  He  saith  unto  them,  go  ye  also  into  the  vine¬ 
yard  ;  and  whatsoever  is  right,  that  shall  ye  re¬ 
ceive.”  (Matt.  20:6,  7) 

The  householder  had  gone  out  in  the  early  morn¬ 
ing,  that  he  might  hire  laborers ;  again  at  the  sixth 
and  ninth  hour;  and  now  at  the  eleventh  hour  of 
the  day,  going  forth  he  found  still  others  and  set 
them  at  work,  promising  to  them,  as  to  the  others, 
sure  reward. 

THE  ELEVENTH  HOUR 

Had  you  noted  that  the  armistice  was  signed  the 
eleventh  month ,  the  eleventh  day  of  the  month,  and 
the  eleventh  hour  of  the  day? 

The  early  morning  hour  of  the  testimony  of  the 
church  has  long  gone  by,  the  sixth  and  ninth  hours 
are  matters  of  history,  perhaps  dating  back  to  the 
call  of  Cornelius  (Acts  10:3),  but  God’s  dock  for 
the  world  has  not  yet  struck  twelve.  But  will  it 
not  strike  soon  ? 

The  number  Eleven  indicates  two  things.  It 
immediately  precedes  the  hour  of  midnight,  and 
tells  us  of  the  darkness  impending  over  the  world ; 
a  darkness  which,  as  in  the  time  of  the  deliver¬ 
ance  of  Israel  out  of  Egypt,  “may  be  felt”  (Ex. 
10:21),  and  it  also  precedes  the  noonday  light, 
which,  like  the  glory  which  shone  around  Saul 
(Acts  9),  is  yet  to  be  manifested,  when, 

“Out  of  the  darkness  of  night, 

The  world  rolls  into  light. 

’Tis  daybreak  everywhere.” 


A  LULL  IN  THE  STORM 

The  armistice  has  been  signed  and  we  thank  God 
for  the  breathing  spell.  Peace  makers  are  about 
to  meet,  but  even  with  their  high  ideals,  and  pro¬ 
found  desire  for  the  amelioration  of  the  ills  of 
the  human  race,  there  are  conditions  beyond  their 
vision,  for  sin  lies  at  the  root  of  sorrow,  and  con¬ 
ferences  at  human  peace  tables  cannot  reach  the 
real  source  of  our  troubles.  God  must  deal  with 
the  sin  question,  and  deal  with  it  thoroughly,  be¬ 
fore  His  day  can  dawn ;  a  day  with  no  cloud  to 
mar  its  beauty. 

“And  He  shall  send  Jesus  Christ,  which  befofe 
was  preached  unto  you.”  (Acts  3:20) 

This  man.  now  in  the  glory,  the  Prince  of  Peace, 
disowned  and  rejected,  Pie  “whose  right  it  is”  to 
sit  upon  the  throne  of  David,  must  come  and  reign; 
and  then  swords  will  be  beaten  into  plowshares,  and 
spears  into  pruning  hooks. 

The  pressure  on  Christians,  and  the  tension  of 
the  times  through  which  we  have  been  passing, 
have  been  great.  The  sorrows  of  the  world  through 
war,  famine,  and  pestilence  have  been  multiplied. 
How  long  the  present  lull  will  last,  we  cannot  tell; 
but  “THE  TIME  IS  SPIORT,”  and  whatever  is 
done  in  knowing  God  and  His  will,  in  yielding  our¬ 
selves  to  Him  for  prayer,  and  for  ministry,  must 
be  done  quickly.  Seed-time  is  nearly  over — 
harvest-time,  the  reapers,  and  the  sickle  of  judg¬ 
ment  are  near. 

THE  MINISTRY  COMMITTED  TO  US 

Are  we  keenly  alive  to  that  which  God  has  com¬ 
mitted  to  us,  even  “THE  MINISTRY  OF 
RECONCILIATION?”  (II  Cor.  5:19-20)  If  we 


have  a  real  vision  of  it.  how  can  we  be  at  “ease  in 
Zion,”  or  “nourish  our  hearts  in  a  day  of  slaughter?” 
(James  5:5)  Will  not  the  very  stones  cry  out 
against  us,  and  men  rise  in  judgment  to  say,  “No 
one  cared  for  my  soul?”  Doing  the  Master’s  will 
and  carrying  His  message  to  the  lost  should  be  the 
supereme  passion  of  our  lives. 

“Why  stand  ye  here  all  the  day  idle?”  Yes, 
Why,  WHY,  idle ?  Did  not  the  Lord  Himself  put 
us  into  the  harvest  field  and  promise  us  “wages?” 

Has  He  been  gone  so  long  th?.t  we  have  lost  the 
vision?  Are  our  eyes  so  dim  and  our  ears  so  dull 
that  we  catch  no  glimpse,  hear  no  sound,  of  His  re¬ 
turn?  Have  church  activities  and  humanitarian 
works  absorbed  our  time  and  sapped  our  strength 
until  there  is  nothing  left  for  our  Lord  Himself? 
Have  the  Word  of  God  and  the  working  of  the 
Holy  Spirit  lost  their  vital  power  in  and  through 
us  ? 

Have  mercy  on  thy  blood-bought  church,  Lord, 
and  forgive  us !  Bring  us  back  to  thyself  and  to 
the  “Ministry  of  reconciliation”  ere  the  clock  strikes 
twelve  and  the  days  of  ministry  be  over!  The 
church  has  learned  to  do  a  hundred  things,  but  it 
has  largely  lost  touch  with  the  Lord  Himself  and 
the  one  thing  essential.  It  was  a  sacred  trust  which 
was  committed  to  us.  It  is  well  if  we  can  say  with 
Paul,  ’this  one  thine;  I  do.” 

THE  PRESENCE  OF  OUR  LORD 

The  times  are  strenuous ;  “perilous.”  Many  of 
God’s  children  are  being  severely  tested  in  spirit, 
soul,  and  body;  some  “beyond  measure.”  If  we  are 
to  have  victory,  and  to  overcome  the  wicked  one, 
we  must  know  and  take  our  place  in  the  “heaven- 
lies,”  rather  than  grope  on  in  the  earthlies.  Are 


vve  conscious  of  failure,  inability,  impotence,  defeat? 
And  does  there  not  come  a  longing  to  so  know 
Jesus  that  we  may  “more  than  conquer  through  Him 
who  loves  us?”  “All  power  in  heaven  and  in  earth,” 
is  given  to  Him.  He  has  OVERCOME.  (John 
16:33)  In  the  life  of  separation  and  surrender  to 
Him,  in  the  blood  of  the  Lamb,  and  in  the  power  of 
our  Lord’s  NAME,  there  is  victory  over  the  enemy. 
It  is  never  in  ourselves.  Are  we  well  acquainted 
with  Him  ? 

Did  you  ever  see  hounds  following  on  the  track 
of  a  fox?  When  they  are  far  away  and  the  scent 
is  cold,  they  lag  in  the  race;  but  when  the  game 
is  near  and  the  scent  keen,  the  hills  echo  with  their 
eager  baying. 

Have  we  lost  the  keen  scent  and  sense  of  the  pres¬ 
ence  of  our  Lord?  Are  we  worshipping  afar  off, 
preaching  about  Christ  instead  of  preaching  Him, 
keeping  Christmas  days,  but  with  no  knowledge  of 
HIS  PRESENCE,  no  living,  vital  touch,  as  those 
disciples  had,  even  after  His  death  and  resurrec¬ 
tion?  Has  the  Gospel  lost  its  power,  prayer  its 
reality,  and  are  supernatural  things  no  longer  veri¬ 
ties?  He  said  He  would  not  leave  us  orphans.  “Lo, 
I  am  with  you  always,  even  to  the  conclusion  of 
the  age.”  Is  He  real  to  us,  near  to  us,  a  living 
reality?  Are  we  really  in  partnership  with  Him? 
Let  us  take  another  look,  ask  God  to  make  HIS 
PRESENCE  real,  and  enter  into  a  once-forever  liv¬ 
ing  partnership  with  our  Lord. 

THE  SECRET  OF  HIS  INDWELLING 

It  is  said  of  the  ancient  Egyptians  that  they 
placed  a  human  skeleton  at  their  banqueting  table, 
to  remind  the  guests  of  the  mortality  of  man  and 
the  fleetness  of  time. 

Are  you  reminded  at  this  time,  by  any  skeletons 
of  the  past,  of  your  own  failures,  impotence,  and 
sins?  Death  is  a  venerable  old  preacher,  and  he  is 


ever  on  our  trail.  More  sure  even  than  death  is 
the  COMING  OF  ODR  LORD, 

“Who  will  render  to  every  man  according  to  his 
deeds.  Tribulation  and  anguish,  upon  every  soul  of 
man  that  doeth  evil ;  of  the  Jew  first  and  also  of 
the  Gentile.”  (Rom.  2:6-11)  May  we  confess 
every  lack  and  failure,  cast  ourselves  utterly  upon 
the  mercy  and  grace  of  God  through  Jesus  Christ, 
and  DWELL  DEEP  in  Him.  We  cannot  put  our¬ 
selves  to  death,  but  we  can  take  the  place  where 
God  sees  us,  crucified  with  Christ  at  the  cross 
(Rom.  6:6;  Gal.  2:20;  Col.  3:3)  and  then  trust  the 
Lord  Jesus  to  take  possession  and  live  out  His 
own  life  in  and  through  us.  He  can  turn  the  wil¬ 
derness  into  water  springs,  and  make  the  desert  to 
blossom  as  the  rose.  May  we  trust  Him  to  BE 
THE  MIRACLE,  as  well  as  to  do  the  miracle  for 
us?  The  Giver  is  better  than  the  gifts. 

SERVICE  IN,  AND  WITH,  HIM 

In  the  joy  of  His  presence,  in  the  miracle  of 
His  indwelling  and  outworking,  service  will  not  be 
strained  and  forced,  but  spontaneous  and  joyful. 
Not  fleshly  activities,  and  church  duties,  but  wells  of 
water  springing  up  within  and  rivers  of  water  flow¬ 
ing  out.  Then  shall  we  have  a  heart  of  compas¬ 
sion  for  perishing  millions ;  then  shall  we  have  the 
ears  of  instructed  ones  to  know  how  to  speak  a 
word  to  the  weary.  (Isa.  50:4) 

— O.  R.  PALMER. 


The  Africa  Inland  Mission  is  a  Faith  Mission  un¬ 
der  the  management  of  Home  Councils  in  Australia, 
the  British  Isles  and  North  America.  The  missionary 
force  at  present  writing  numbers  about  200.  No  ap¬ 
peal  for  funds  is  made  nor  collections  taken,  the  work 
being  supported  by  offerings  that  individuals  or 
churches  may  be  led  voluntarily  to  give.  For  additional 
literature:  for  sample  copies  of  “Inland  Africa,”  the 
monthly  organ  of  the  Mission,  or  for  any  further  in¬ 
formation  address  the  Africa  Inland  Mission,  356 
Bridge  Street,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y.,  where  the  executive 
offices  of  the  Mission  are  located.  Checks  and  money 
orders  should  be  made  payable  to  the  Africa  Inland 
Mission. 

LEAFLET  NO.  7 


CHALLENGE 


Native  Evangelists 


THE  RESULT  OF  THE  CHALLENGE 


ACCEPTED 


AFRICA 


100,000,000  unevangelized  men,  women  and 
children. 

700  or  more  tribes  untouched  by  the  Gospel. 

700  or  more  languages  not  yet  reduced  to 
writing. 


CAN  YOU  PICTURE  THEM? 

TRY  IT. 


Scattered  in  little  villages  of  four  or  five  small, 
round,  grass-roofed  huts, — on  hill  sides,  in  the 
valleys,  amidst  the  forests,  over  a  vast  area  as 
large  or  larger  than  our  United  States.  A  coun¬ 
try  with  great  rivers,  great  forests,  great  animals, 
and  many  other  wonderful  sights,  scenic  and 
otherwise. 

These  little  huts  look  much  like  some  of  the 
small  round  haystacks  to  be  seen  sometimes  in 
our  own  land.  But  they  are  far  from  being  as 
clean.  Around  the  whole  village  is  a  rough 
brush  fence.  Imagine  this  as  your  home,  with 
your  front  3rard  and  back  yard  a  stock  pen.  Then 
at  night-fall  you  and  perhaps  six  or  eight  other 
members  of  your  family  enter  your  hut,  after 
driving  in  twenty  or  thirty  sheep,  goats  and 
calves  through  the  only  opening, — a  door  two 
feet  wide  and  three  feet  or  less  high. 

Home. 

You  have  a  nice  smoky  wood  fire  in  the  center 
of  the  hut  where  you  cook  your  supper.  When 
you  are  ready  to  retire  for  the  night,  you  leave 
the  group  squatted  around  the  fire  and  jump  on 
jrour  bunk  of  rough  hewn  boards,  some  two  and 
a  half  feet  from  the  mud  floor, — just  high  enough 
to  allow  the  sheep  and  goats  room  underneath. 
This  is  an  excellent  double-deck,  or  upper  and 
lower  berth  arrangement.  You  draw  some  dirty 
greasy  skins  or  blankets  about  you  and  are  soon 
fast  asleep.  The  last  one  to  bunk  sees  that  the 
door  is  shut  tightly  to  prevent  any  wild  animal 
molesting  them.  Such  an  elegant  home!  Can 
you  imagine  what  the  air  is  like? 


Realities. 


But  such  things  fade  into  insignificance  as  we 
look  upon  the  terrible  heathen  beliefs,  customs, 
and  cruel  practices  all  about  us.  Your  relatives 
and  friends  do  not  tie  you  down  when  you  are 
sick  and  make  long  deep  scratches  in  your  naked 
body  with  a  sharp  knife  because  they  are  natural¬ 
ly  or  intentionally  cruel — but  to  benefit  you  by 
opening  a  way  by  which  the  demons  that  are 
disturbing  you  may  escape.  They  have  real  af¬ 
fection  for  you,  and  for  one  another.  And  you 
display  affection  when  you  give  this  same  treat¬ 
ment  to  your  little  child,  or  any  other  member 
of  your  family. 

And  you  still  have  this  affection  when  the  ter¬ 
rible  fear  of  yourself  and  others  for  the  demon 
of  death  compels  you  to  carry  out  your  sick 
mother,  father,  sister  or  child  at  dusk  and  leave 
them  helpless  and  alone,  though  probably  con¬ 
scious,  to  face  the  jackals  and  hyenas  later  in  the 
night.  Must  you  not  protect  those  who  remain, 
as  well  as  yourself,  from  this  fearful  demon? 
How  else  can  you  do  it?  Reader,  are  you  pic¬ 
turing  yourself  as  living  in  these  conditions, — 
only  a  few  of  the  many  prevailing  in  Africa? 

Then  would  you  think  it  amounted  to  much,  or 
was  worth  while,  if  some  one  came  and  told  you 
and  vonr  friends  about  Jesus  Christ,  led.  you  to 
Him  and  He  released  you  from  the  power  of 
Satan  that  caused  you  to  suffer  all  these  condi¬ 
tions?  Here  and  there  a  few  have  been  so  re¬ 
leased  and  saved.  You  may  have  heard  the  story 
of  some.  You  can  learn  the  story  of  others  if  you 
desire.  As  you  put  yourself  in  the  place  of  each 
one  of  these,  does  not  the  Holy  Spirit  awaken 


a  desire  in  you  to  do  all  in  your  power  to  meet 
the  challenge  of  the  scores  of  millions  still  wait¬ 
ing  to  hear  the  message  Christ  sent  to  them 
nearly  two  thousand  years  ago? 

‘‘Go  ye  into  all  the  world  and  preach  the  Gospel 
to  every  creature.”  Mark  16:15. 

The  Way. 

The  work  of  the  Africa  Inland  Mission,  both 
at  home  and  on  the  field,  has  been  greatly  blessed 
and  extended  as  a  direct  result  of  earnest  and 
definite  prayer  by  many  of  its  friends.  We  be¬ 
lieve  the  greatest  need  of  the  Mission  is  for 
more  such  prayer  workers,  more  closely  united 
in  more  definite  prayer  through  a  greater  knowl¬ 
edge  of  the  work  on  the  field. 

As  the  first  step  toward  meeting  this  need,  we 
are  asking  such  as  feel  God  desires  them  to 
undertake  this  service  to  tear  off  the  page  of  this 
folder  provided  for  those  who  desire  to  become 
Prayer  Stewards,  sign  and  mail  it  to  the  Mission 
office. 

If  you  do  this  there  will  be  sent  to  you  infor¬ 
mation  regarding  the  Mission  and  its  work,  to¬ 
gether  with  a  little  prayer  chart  which  you  can 
hang  in  your  prayer  chamber  and  be  guided  by 
it  to  remember  in  your  prayers,  at  least  once 
each  day,  the  subject  given  for  that  particular 
day.  Your  prayer  will  go  up  to  The  Throne  in 
unison  with  many  others  for  the  same  object.  If 
we  all  keep  in  such  fellowship  with  our  Lord 
that  we  may  pray  in  the  power  of  the  Holy  Spirit, 
have  you  not  a  vision  of  what  wonderful  results 
might  come  if  we  should  pray  for  a  thousand 
new  missionaries,  three  hundred  new  stations, 
hundreds  more  of  out-schools,  native  teachers  and 


evangelists,  thousands  of  new  converts,  and  other 
needs?  From  time  to  time  you  will  receive  infor¬ 
mation  concerning  both  the  home  and  field  work, 
showing  how  your  prayers  are  being  answered 
and  giving  you  the  information  and  knowledge  to 
pray  more  definitely. 

Having  entered  into  this  fellowship  of  prayer 
and  becoming  acquainted  with  the  work  of  the 
Mission  more  in  detail,  many  will  find  they  arc 
receiving  a  great  blessing  and  much  joy  in  seeing 
how  they  are  haying  such  a  definite  share  in 
bringing  the  Good  News  of  Jesus  Christ  to  some 
of  these  millions  in  Africa.  This  personal  interest 
in  the  deep  needs  of  one  part  of  the  field,  which 
our  Lord  said  was  the  world,  will  surely  bring 
a  reaction  upon  your  own  life  with  abundant 
blessing;  and  as  we  have  indicated  above,  you 
will  occasionally  be  receiving  information  of  the 
field.  You  will  see  the  fruit  of  your  labors  by 
prayer,  and  be  able  to  rejoice  with  us  in  the 
abundance  of  God’s  blessing. 

The  Africa  Inland  Mission  Work 

covers  a  vast  territory  extending  inland  from  the 
east  coast  of  Africa  at  the  equator  in  a  north¬ 
western  direction  along  high  lands  toward  Lake 
Chad,  its  chief  stations  being  situated  in  places 
which  because  of  the  altitude  are  unusually 
healthy.  The  station  farthest  inland  is  now  about 
750  to  800  miles  from  the  coast. 

As  trained  natives  are  available  they  may  be 
sent  to  evangelize  the  less  healthy  districts  where 
the  white  man  cannot  live  and  work  but  where 
the  native  is  not  affected  at  all.  At  present  writ¬ 
ing  just  a  little  over  two  hundred  missionaries 
are  on  the  rolls  of  the  Mission,  only  a  very  few 


of  them  on  furlough  or  expecting  to  be;  over  half 
of  them  working  on  the  stations  in  the  Belgian 
Congo,  where  it  is  nearly  all  new  work.  In  this 
work  the  missionary  must  learn  the  language, 
reduce  it  to  writing,  become  familiar  with  the 
customs  and  manners  of  the  people,  translate  his 
Bible  into  the  language,  and  into  life,  and  rest 
on  the  power  and  Spirit  of  God,  eventually  be¬ 
coming  the  instrument  of  sending  the  light  of  the 
Gospel  into  their  hearts. 

There  are  still  several  hundred  tribes,  speaking 
different  languages,  untouched  by  civilization  and 
unevangelized.  The  challenge  of  Africa  to  you  is 
for  obedience  to  the  command  of  Christ:  “Go  Ye,” 
and  your  obedience  must  be  according  to  the 
Divine  leading  to  PRAY,  to  GO  or  to  SEND. 


For  additional  literature;  for  sample  copies  of 
“Inland  Africa,”  the  monthly  organ  of  the  Mis¬ 
sion;  for  speakers,  who  will  be  supplied  where 
and  when  it  is  possible;  or  for  any  further  infor¬ 
mation  address  the  Africa  Inland  Mission,  356 
Bridge  Street,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y.,  where  the  execu¬ 
tive  offices  of  the  Mission  are  located.  Checks 
and  money  orders  should  be  made  payable  to  the 
Africa  Inland  Mission. 

LEAFLET  No.8 


The  Africa  Inland  Mission 

THE  STORY  OF 

- -  °  °  “  * 

A  DAY 


REDEEMED 


What  is  Hoped  For. 

An  interesting  letter  from  a  new  missionary  to  a  friend. 


Dear  Friend: 

CAN  now  say  I  am  really  settled  in  the 
work,  after  eleven  months  in  the  Congo. 
.)My  day  begins  at  6  A.  M.,  with  an  hour 
for  prayer  and  Bible  study.  During  this  time, 
my  servant  boy  goes  to  the  village  nearby 
and  gets  milk  and  then  returns  and  keeps  the 
fire  going  while  I  cook  breakfast.  My  break¬ 
fast  usually  consists  of  porridge  made  from 
i niitama  flour.  This  is  an  entirely  new  brand 
of  flour,  and  it  is  ground  in  an  entirely  new 
style  of  mill  to  me.  Mutama  is  a  small  seed 
like  kaffir  corn,  or  sorghum  seed,  and  my  boy 
pounds  it  into  flour  with  a  wooden  pestle 
and  mortar,  which  I  cut  from  a  big  tree. 

AiLr  breakfast  I  assign  tasks  for  the  two 
other  boys  who  work  for  me,  and  then  go 
into  the  coo^  house  with  my  house  boy, 
“Bawi,”  and  study  language  for  an  hour  or 
so.  Usually  he  tires  out  within  an  hour,  so 
I  can  not  study  for  more  than  an  hour  at  a 
time;  and  then  I  go  by  myself  and  practice 
saying  the  sentences  he  has  given  me.  It  is 
slow  work,  and  if  one  has  not  the  moral 
stamina  to  hold  himself  to  a  certain  standard 
of  attainment  each  day,  he  accomplishes  very 
little.  In  this  need,  I  beg  for  the  prayers 
of  God’s  people  that  the  Lord  will  not  per¬ 
mit  me  to  grow  negligent. 

At  11  A.  M.,  I  lay  aside  language  papers 
and  take  up  my  tools  to  work,  for  many 
articles  of  furniture  must  be  manufactured 
directly  from  the  raw  materials.  The  mission 
grounds  must  be  improved,  trees  planted, 
gardens  cared  for,  and  other  buildings 
erected. 


NATIVE  BOY  WITH  CHICKEN 


At  2.30  P.  M.,  I  put  my  tools  away  and 
get  dinner.  After  dinner,  a  little  time  for 
prayer  and  Bible  study,  and  then  the  boys 
are  gathered  for  school.  I  wish  you  might 


sit  with  me  in  front  of  my  house  one  of  these 
pleasant,  cloudless  evenings,  with  six  black 
boys  sitting  on  the  ground  in  front  of  us 
while  letters  are  written  for  them  on  my 
slate  and  they  pronounce  them  in  chorus. 
Following  this  is  a  period  of  catechismal  in¬ 
struction  in  the  things  of  God,  and  a  Bible 
story. 

School  is  dismissed  and  language  papers 
are  taken  up  again  for  a  half  hour  or  more. 
Then  there  is  sewing  and  other  household 
duties  to  be  looked  after,  for  another  half 
hour,  which  brings  me  to  bedtime  and  good¬ 
night  prayers.  Such  is  the  daily  routine  the 
Lord  has  given  me  at  the  present,  except 
when  I  go  to  the  villages  to  tell  the  natives 
about  God  and  His  Christ,  and  I  find  it  a 
most  delightful  one. 

Some  one  gave  me  a  baseball,  so  I  have 
introduced  this  game  to  the  native  boys  after 
school.  They  take  to  it  like  a  duck  does  to 
water,  and  now  it  is  not  necessary  for  me  to 
go  out  with  them  and  show  them  the  ins  and 
outs  of  the  game.  It  would  do  your  heart 
good  to  see  these  naked  black  boys  standing 
at  the  bat,  making  home  runs,  grabbing  for 
flies,  and  withal,  shouting  at  the  top  of  their 
voices,  in  their  own  language,  all  the  com¬ 
mands,  encouragements  and  remarks  of  a 
ball  game.  The  technical  terms  of  baseball 
fit  into  the  language  without  the  least  dif¬ 
ficulty,  and  they  have  learned  it  in  a  week  or 
so.  I  only  wish  I  could  put  the  words  of 
God  into  their  own  language  half  so  quickly. 
May  the  Lord  give  us  wisdom  to  make  the 
Gospel  as  plain  and  as  easy  of  comprehen¬ 
sion  to  them  as  the  ball  game. 


A  few  days  ago,  one  of  my  work  boys, 
“Thelu,”  finished  his  month’s  work.  I  spread 
out  a  two-yard  piece  of  blue  cloth,  and  placed 
four  francs  beside  it,  telling  him  to  take  his 
choice  for  wages.  He  at  once  chose  the 
cloth,  and  with  much  glee  started  off  with  it; 
then  a  new  thought  came  to  him,  and  he  re¬ 
turned  and  asked  me  to  sew  it  into  a  shirt 
for  him,  which  I  was  able  to  do  during  two 
evenings.  After  this  I  gave  him  a  piece  from 
a  cowhide  which  I  had  used  in  making  a 
bed,  and  he  promptly  returned  and  asked  me 
to  make  him  a  belt  like  the  one  1  had  given 
to  my  house  boy.  I  had  no  buckle,  but  man¬ 
aged  to  use  a  hook  from  a  pair  of  trousers, 
so  now  he  proudly  goes  about  with  a  shirt 
girded  at  the  waist  with  a  broad  cowhide 
belt,  and  is  the  envy  of  the  other  native  boys 
who  visit  the  station.  After  another  month 
he  will  get  cloth  enough  for  a  pair  of 
trousers,  and  then  he  will  belong  to  the 
“aristocracy.”  I  have  to  be  a  teacher,  big 
brother,  mother,  and  master  to  these  boys, 
but  I  hope  the  flock  may  be  increased. 

There  are  hundreds  of  other  communities 
where  naked  black  boys  and  girls  are  waiting 
for  someone  to  come  and  do  these  things  for 
them.  Who  is  there  who  may  read  these 
words  and  will  say:  “I  will  go  as  a  mis¬ 
sionary  as  soon  as  the  Lord  opens  the  way;” 
or,  “I  will  give  of  my  income  to  send  a 
missionary?”  Above  all,  who  will  consecrate 
themselves  definitely  to  pray  daily  the  Lord 
of  the  harvest  to  thrust  forth,  maintain,  and 
strengthen  laborers  for  His  work  in  Africk? 

H.  E.  G. 

Kilo,  Congo  Beige.  -  -:L*  —  - 


MISSIONARY  EXPRESS 

The  Africa  Inland  Mission  is  a  Faith  Mission  un¬ 

der  the  management  of  Home  Councils  in  Australia, 
the  British  Isles  and  North  America.  The  missionary 
force  at  present  writing  numbers  about  200.  No  ap¬ 
peal  for  funds  is  made  nor  collections  taken,  the  work 
being  supported  by  offerings  that  individuals  or 

churches  may  be  led  voluntarily  to  give.  For  additional 
literature:  for  sample  copies  of  “Inland  Africa,”  the 
monthly  organ  of  the  Mission,  or  for  any  further  in¬ 
formation  address  the  Africa  Inland  Mission,  356 
Bridge  Street,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y.,  where  the  executive 
offices  of  the  Mission  are  located.  Checks  and  money 

orders  should  be  made  payable  to  the  Africa  Inland 

Mission. 


f's  «  /i-Cr ;  a 

^frira  ^Julanb  iJJtHBtmt 


A  Kavirondo  Group 


His  Compassion 

But  when  He  (Jesus)  saw  the  multitudes, 
He  was  moved  with  compassion  on  them,  because 
they  fainted  and  were  scattered  abroad,  as  sheep 
having  no  shepherd. — Matt.  9:  36. 

What  matter  if  the  flesh  be  white, 

Or  black  or  brown? 

The  dying  Saviour  wore  for  all 
The  thorny  crown. 


Akamba  Men  Ready  for  a  Dance 


Do  You  Think  They  Need  the  Gospel  ? 

The  Africa  Inland  Mission 

is  an  interdenominational  Faith  Mission  with 
home  Executive  Councils  and  Advisory  Boards 
chosen  from  various  religious  bodies.  It  was  the 
plan  of  Peter  Cameron  Scott,  the  founder  of  the 
Mission,  and  those  associated  with  him,  for  work¬ 
ers  to  enter  Africa  on  the  eastern  coast  at  Mom¬ 
basa  and  press  into  the  interior  along  the  line 
of  the  high  hills  across  the  equator  and  on  to 
the  Belgian  Congo,  establishing  a  chain  of  sta¬ 
tions  as  far  as  Lake  Chad  and  by  planting 
stations  on  high  ground  avoid  to  a  large  extent 
the  fevers  of  lower  altitudes  which  have  proven 
a  deadly  scourge  to  the  white  man.  From  these 
stations  native  evangelists  and  pastors  can  evan¬ 
gelize  in  lower  altitudes  where  Europeans  or 
Americans  can  not  go.  The  stations  have  been 
located  at  places  from  3000  to  7000  feet  above 
the  level  of  the  sea,  where  with  reasonable  pre¬ 
caution  white  missionaries  are  able  to  carry  on 
their  work  successfully. 


Visiting  a  Native  Hut 

The  work  is  of  the  real  pioneer  kind.  The 
missionaries  must  get  new  languages  from  the 
natives  word  by  word.  They  visit  the  people  in 
their  huts  and  villages;  they  seek  in  every  way 
to  overcome  native  prejudice;  to  gain  the  con¬ 
fidence  of  the  people,  and  thus  to  prepare  the 
ground  for  the  Gospel. 

When  our  first  workers  sailed  for  the  Field, 
there  were  no  other  missionary  boards  occupying 
the  districts  which  they  entered,  and  none  ex¬ 
pected  to  in  the  near  future.  Other  boards 
had  more  demands  for  men  and  money  than  they 
could  supply,  and  these  districts  might  have 
remained  unreached  until  now  had  not  God  led 
these  workers  to  the  Field. 

Churches  are  being  established;  portions  of  the 
Scriptures  printed  in  the  native  tongue ;  school 
work  carried  on;  native  Christians  trained  in 
evangelistic  work  among  their  own  people,  and 
as  far  as  possible  the  converts  taught  useful 
trades. 

Central  Africa  is  said  to  have  more  unevan¬ 
gelized  people  (50  to  75  million)  than  any  other 
one  spot  on  earth. 


Our  Lord’s  Exhortation 


Say  not  ye,  there  are  yet  four  months,  and 
then  cometh  harvest?  Behold,  I  say  unto  you, 
lift  up  your  eyes,  and  look  on  the  fields,  for  they 
are  white  already  to  harvest. 

And  he  that  reapeth  receiveth  wages,  and 
gathereth  fruit  unto  life  eternal;  that  both  he 
that  soweth  and  he  that  reapeth  may  rejoice 
together. — John  4:35-36. 


An  Interested  and  Interesting  Audience 


A  Question  of  Responsibility 

If  thou  forbear  to  deliver  those  that  are  ready 
to  be  slain; 

If  thou  sayest,  Behold,  we  knew  it  not, — 

Doth  not  He  that  pondereth  the  heart  consider 
it?  and  He  that  keepeth  thy  soul,  doth  not  He 
know  it?  and  shall  not  He  render  to  every  man 
according  to  his  works? — Prov.  24:11-12. 


Home  for  Native  Girls  at  Kijabe 


Have  not  these  bright,  intelligent  little  waifs 
of  Africa  just  as  much  right  to  the  Bread  of  Life 
and  the  Saviour’s  love  as  we?  Many  have  already 
passed  into  a  Christless  eternity.  Is  it  not  our 
privilege  and  solemn  responsibility  before  God  to 
take  the  Gospel  at  once  to  those  who  are  living? 

How  shall  they  call  on  Him  in  Whom  they  have 
not  believed? 

How  shall  they  believe  in  Him  of  Whom  they 
have  not  heard? 

How  shall  they  hear  without  a  preacher? 

How  shall  they  preach  except  they  be  sent? 
as  it  is  written,  How  beautiful  are  the  feet  of 
them  that  preach  the  Gospel  of  peace,  and  bring 
glad  tidings  of  good  things! — Rom.  10:  14,  15. 


A  Native  Christian  Wedding 


These  native  Christians  saved  out  of  polygamy, 
plucked  from  the  vices  and  sins  of  heathendom 
as  “brands  from  the  burning,”  are  “living  epis- 
tles”of  the  work  and  of  the  grace  of  God,  which 
may  easily  be  “known  and  read  of  all  men.” 

“Where  sin  abounded  there  did  grace  much 
more  abound.” 

We  have  been  put  in  trust  with  the  Gospel, 
which  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation.  If  we 
neglect  this  trust  we  leave  two-thirds  of  the 
population  of  the  world  to  perish  without  hope. 
If  we  accept  it,  and  the  Holy  Spirit  kindles  in 
us  a  passion  of  intercession  for  the  lost,  all  min¬ 
istry  will  become  a  holy  privilege  and  we  shall 
truly  be  “co-laborers  together”  with  our  God  in 
this  great  work. 


The  Africa  Inland  Mission 


was  organized  in  1895,  and  at  this  writing,  June 
1915,  is  manning  20  main  stations  besides  out- 
stations,  and  has  about  100  Missionaries  besides 
native  evangelists  and  helpers. 

The  present  field  of  operation  is  in  British 
East  Africa,  German  East  Africa  and  the  Belgian 
Congo.  The  territory  equals  about  one-fourth 
the  area  of  the  United  States  and  it  requires 
six  months’  time  and  travel  to  visit  all  the  sta¬ 
tions. 

In  connection  with  the  work  there  are  25 
schools  and  out-schools,  11  chapels,  1  hospital,  4 
physicians,  10  dispensaries,  and  about  20,000 
medical  cases  are  treated  annually. 

There  are  said  to  be  50,000  people  to  each 
Missionary  and  700  languages  and  dialects  are 
not  yet  reduced  to  writing. 

There  are  telegraph,  telephone  and  railroad 
lines  in  various  parts  of  Africa  and  steamers  ply 
on  the  large  rivers  and  lakes.  The  “fields  are 
white  to  the  harvest.” 


Support  of  the  Work 

While  seeking  to  give  full  information  to  the 
church  at  large  concerning  Africa,  its  need  of 
the  Gospel,  its  wide-open  doors,  and  the  responsi¬ 
bility  of  Christian  stewardship,  the  Mission  does 
not  solicit  individuals  to  make  contributions  nor 
ask  churches  for  collections.  Its  policy  is  to  give 
information,  but  to  ask  God  alone  to  lay  upon  the 
hearts  of  His  children  where  and  what  they  are 
to  give.  If  individuals  or  churches  are  thus  led 
of  God  to  give  to  our  work  we  gladly  accept  it 
as  a  token  of  His  grace  and  answer  to  prayer, 
and  use  it  carefully  and  prayerfully  in  His  serv¬ 
ice. 

All  contributions  are  acknowledged  to  the 
donors  and  all  gifts  appear  by  number  (not  by 


name)  in  the  Treasurer’s  report,  which  is  pub¬ 
lished  semi-annually  in  “Hearing  and  Doing,”  the 
organ  of  the  Mission.  The  accounts  of  the 
Mission  are  audited  yearly. 

Sample  copies  of  the  paper  and  other  literature 
will  be  mailed  upon  request.  Checks  and  money 
orders  should  be  made  payable  to  the  Africa 
Inland  Mission  and  all  mail  addressed  to  2244 
N.  29th  Street,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

The  home  management  of  the  work  in  America 
and  in  the  British  Isles  is  in  the  hands  of  men 
organized  as  Executive  Councils.  Larger  Ad¬ 
visory  Councils  meet  with  them  once  a  year  for 
prayer  and  counsel.  There  are  also  District  Coun¬ 
cils  in  New  York,  Buffalo,  Chicago  and  Los 
Angeles. 


Officers  of  the  American  and  English 
Councils 

American  Council 

Rev.  Reuben  A.  Torrey,  D.D.,  President. 

Rev.  Frederic  W.  Farr,  S.T.D.,  Vice-President. 
Rev.  Charles  E.  Hurlburt,  General  Director. 
Orson  R.  Palmer,  Director  for  North  America. 

William  L.  De  Groff,  Recording  Secretary  and 
Deputation  Worker. 

John  R.  Hague,  Field  Secretary. 

John  L.  Steele,  Treasurer. 

English  Council 

Rev.  J.  Stuart  Holden,  M.A.,  President. 

Rev.  A.  C.  Dixon,  D.D.,  Vice-President. 

Rev.  D.  P.  Robinson,  M.A.,  Hon.  Home  Director. 


All 

Around 

Schools 


ui 


-Afri, 


rica 


All-Around  Schools 

By  Janet  M.  Wingerd 

HODI1”  the  familiar  African  word  which  sig¬ 
nifies  a  knocking  on  the  door  sounded 
outside. 

I  looked  out  to  see  one  of  my  secondary  school 
pupils,  his  brown  face  beaming  above  the  open 
collar  of  his  clean  khaki  shirt  which,  with  khaki 
shorts,  forms  the  school  uniform. 

“What  now?”  I  asked  myself,  as  a  dozen  pos¬ 
sibilities  flashed  through  my  mind. 

Perhaps  this  lad  had  written  a  letter  to  a 
friend  and  wanted  to  buy  a  stamp  and  an  envelope. 
Perhaps  he  had  heard  that  his  father  was  sick  and 
he  wanted  permission  to  go  home.  Perhaps  die 
schoolroom  was  in  need  of  some  chalk  or  ink.  Per¬ 
haps  the  native  teacher  needed  the  office  keys  to 
get  one  of  the  big  wall  maps  for  geography  class, 
or  he  wanted  a  cloth  to  wash  the  schoolroom  win¬ 
dows,  or  the  glass  in  a  dormitory  lantern  had 
broken.  (In  Africa,  things  break  of  themselves- 
without  cause.)  Or  was  it  time  to  fill  the  study 
lamps  with  kerosene,  or  had  I  forgotten  to  measure 
out  the  boys’  precious  ration  of  sugar? 

Any  of  these  reasons  could  have  been  a  daily 
possibility  for  a  call,  but  scarcely  was  I  prepared 
for  the  request  at  this  time, 

“Please,  may  I  have  a  rope  to  tie  a  calf?” 

Now,  I  had  gone  to  Africa  with  the  under¬ 
standing  that  a  missionary  must  be  prepared  to  do 
many  kinds  of  work,  but  I  had  not  had  any  prac¬ 
tical  agricultural  training  nor  animal  husbandry, 
even  though  I  grew  up  on  a  farm,  so  I  had  not 
prepared  to  care  for  calves.  But  I  was  a  school 
teacher,  and  in  African  schools  cows  form  a  neces¬ 
sary  part  of  practical  school  training,  so  if  the 


school  cow  had  a  calf  and  that  calf  needed  to 
be  tied— 

There  was  a  catch-all  box  in  our  pantry.  It 
contained  assorted  articles  of  doubtful  usefulness, 
but  they  were  things  which  just  might  be  the  thing 
we  needed  some  time,  so  I  searched  hopefully  for 
a  rope,  but  in  vain.  I  had  to  confront  the  still- 
cheerful  pupil  with  an  apology. 

“No,  I’m  sorry,  I  don’t  seem  to  have  a  rope, 
but  perhaps  Bwana—”  and  I  sent  him  in  search  of 
the  station  superintendent. 

“At  least,”  I  said  to  myself,  “if  Bwana  doesn’t 
have  a  rope,  he’ll  be  better  able  to  decide  what  to 
use^  instead  of  one.”  After  all,  much  of  a  mission¬ 
ary’s  time  is  consumed  in  devising  ways  and  means 
of  getting  along  without  what  he  does  not  have. 

But  I  hear  the  reaction  from  many  in  the 
homeland:  We  thought  you  went  to  Africa  to 
preach  the  gospel.  Why  are  you  spending  your 
time  selling  stamps,  measuring  sugar,  tying  calves? 
We  might  answer  in  the  words  of  I  Corinthians  9: 
22,  “I  am  made  all  things  to  all  men,  that  I  by  all 
means  might  save  some. 

Managing  a  boarding  school  in  Africa  presents 
some  problems  which  an  American  school  does  not, 
but  the  African  school  is  saved  many  more  civilized 
problems.  It  is  not  necessary  to  polish  mud  or 
cement  floors,  nor  to  launder  non-existing  table¬ 
cloths.  But  it  is  necessary,  if  we  wish  to  honor  the 
name  of  the  Lord,  to  maintain  the  highest  possible 
standards  in  our  mission  schools  in  every  way. 

In  Kenya  Colony,  the  British  Government  has 
set  high  academic  standards  for  African  junior  sec¬ 
ondary  schools,  much  above  the  standards  of  our 
corresponding  junior  high  schools  at  home.  Conse¬ 
quently,  only  a  limited  number  of  candidates  can 
qualify  for  entrance,  but  those  who  do  come  are 
die  choice  of  adolescent  Africans.  The  school  cur¬ 
riculum  is  rightly  designed  to  meet  an  all-around 
need.  Along  with  academic  subjects,  such  as  history 
and  arithmetic,  pupils  are  required  to  learn  prac¬ 
tical  agriculture  and  animal  husbandry  (for  Africa 


is  primarily  an  agricultural  land),  and  practical 
crafts,  such  as  carpentry  for  boys  and  domestic 
science  for  girls. 

In  the  mission  school  where  all  these  things 
are  taught,  every  day  begins  with  a  Bible  class 
where,  free  from  any  Government  restriction  what¬ 
soever,  the  missionaries  or  trained  Christian  Afri¬ 
cans  cpi  teach  God’s  Word.  All  through  the  school, 
Christian  principles  of  living  and  conduct  can  be 
taught. 

History  classes  afford  a  splendid  opportunity 
for  introducing  Christian  thinking  along  the  line  of 
the  stormy  political  issues  now  confronting  young 
Africa.  Geography  classes  can  be  presented  with 
Genesis  I  instead  of  Godless  theories  of  the  origin 
of  the  earth,  taught,  alas,  in  many  non-Christian 
African  schools.  In  classes  in  English,  the  most 
popular  subject  in  the  school,  pupils  can  be  intro¬ 
duced  to  the  English  Bible  when  they  have  pro¬ 
gressed  sufficiently  far.  This  is  a  great  blessing  to 
them,  for  many  do  not  yet  have  the  Old  Testament 
in  their  own  languages,  and  they  never  will  have 
in  the  vernaculars  many  of  the  Bible  study  helps 
available  to  those  who  know  English. 

The  junior  secondary  schools  springing  up  all 
over  East  Africa  today  present  a  great  opportunity 
to  Christian  missions.  There  is  also  a  great  demand 
for  senior  secondary  schools.  The  few  of  these 
which  are  in  existence  are  far  too  small  to  accom¬ 
modate  qualified  candidates  who  wish  to  enter,  so 
that  our  hopes  for  an  adequately  educated  ministry 
for  the  church,  for  Christian  teachers  for  the  future, 
and  for  educated  Christian  leaders  of  all  kinds  can¬ 
not  be  fulfilled  for  many  years  to  come  unless  the 
program  of  schools  goes  forward. 

The  laborers  are  all  too  few  to  meet  the  de¬ 
mands  of  the  abounding  population.  There  are  too 
few  well-trained  African  teachers,  so  for  some 
years  to  come,  much  of  the  teaching  will  have  to 
be  done  by  whites  if  it  is  to  be  done  adequately. 

Much  prayer  is  needed  that,  as  a  servant  of 
Christ  gives  an  honest  measurement  of  sugar,  or 


helps  to  teach  better  methods  of  agriculture,  which 
in  turn  will  help  to  prevent  the  frequent  famine 
conditions,  that  the  real  purpose  of  his  being  there 
may  be  manifest,  that  the  lessons  he  teaches  in 
Bible  class  and  Sunday  school  and  young  people’s 
groups  may  become  more  real  to  his  eager  listeners; 
and  that  as  Jesus  was  manifest  in  the  washing  of 
the  disciples’  feet,  so  His  servants  may  glorify  Him 
in  the  schools  which  are  attracting  the  cream  of 
young  Africa  today. 

Pray  that,  amid  the  various  duties,  the  mis¬ 
sionary  might  put  first  things  first  always.  Prayer 
is  needed,  too,  that  young  people  at  home  may  be 
called  to  this  ministry  and  that  means  may  be  pro¬ 
vided  for  erecting  and  maintaining  such  schools 
in  His  name.  If  Christians  do  not  seize  the  oppor¬ 
tunity,  the  enemy  will. 


Have  You  Seen 

All  of  These  A.I.M.  Publications? 


Order  these  books: 

Trumpet  Notes  in  Congo  by  Austin  Paul  ...  .$1 .50 


Sheee-ja  by  Lucilda  A.  Newton . 50 

Subscribe  for  "Inland  Africa" 

Issued  bi-monthly . per  year  .75 


AFRICA  INLAND  MISSION 

Founded  in  1895  by  Peter  Cameron  Scott 
HEADQUARTERS 

375  Carlton  Avenue,  Brooklyn  5,  New  York 

CANADIAN  OFFICE 

1  Clencrest  Boulevard,  Toronto  13,  Ontario 

Over  400  workers  in  six  fields  in  East  and  Central  Africa. 
Information  and  Literature  sent  upon  request. 
Deputation  speakers  available. 

Deputation  Secretaries 

REV.  WILLIAM  S.  PONTIER  REV.  AUSTIN  PAUL 

48  Tennyson  Place  557  E.  Locust  Avenue 

Passaic,  New  Jersey  Philadelphia  44,  Pa. 

REV.  CEORCE  W.  WEPPLER 
1  Clencrest  Boulevard,  Toronto  13,  Ontario 
Member  of  the  I.  F.  M.  A. 


VETERAN  African  outstation  evangelist,  visiting 
on  one  of  the  main  stations,  was  asked  to  preach 
on  Sunday  morning.  He  began  his  sermon  with  this 
old  Azande  tale: 

“Let  me  remind  you  of  one  of  our  Azande  animal 
stories.  Do  you  remember  the  story  that  our  fathers 
used  to  tell  around  the  campfire  at  night,  the  one 
about  the  moma  [the  leopard],  the  ngafu  [a  small 
wildcat],  and  the  sumba  [the  woodchuck]? 

“You  remember  that  the  ngafu  and  the  sumba 
were  friends,  but  they  both  were  afraid  of  the  moma , 
because  the  leopard  would  eat  the  w'oodchuck  and 
would  fight  with  the  little  wildcat  even  though  they 
were  relatives.  The  little  animals  wanted  to  get  rid 
of  the  leopard  so  that  they  could  go  about  their  busi¬ 
ness  in  peace,  but  they  were  much  too  small  to  con¬ 
quer  him  by  fighting  with  him. 


“One  day  the  wildcat  had  a  fine  idea,  so  he  went 
over  to  the  woodchuck’s  home  and  enlisted  his  help. 
He  said, 

“  ‘Friend  Woodchuck,  you  dig  a  new  den,  with  two 
entrances,  and  be  sure  that  the  leopard  doesn’t  see 
you  working  on  it.  While  you  are  doing  that,  I’ll 
gather  firewood,  and  we’ll  fix  Mr.  Leopard  perma¬ 
nently.’ 

“The  woodchuck  did  as  he  was  told,  and  the  little 
wildcat  piled  firewood  all  around  one  of  the  entrances 
of  the  new  den.  Then  he  built  a  fire,  a  really  big  one, 
so  that  one  could  not  see  the  entrance  of  the  den 
because  of  the  flames  and  the  smoke. 

“The  wildcat  knew  that  it  was  the  leopard’s  custom 
to  pass  by  that  place  at  a  certain  time  of  day,  so  at 
that  time  he  sat  down  beside  the  fire  and  began  to 
sing  a  very  insulting  song  about  the  leopard.  The 
leopard  came  by,  heard  the  song,  and  became  very 
angry.  He  seized  the  little  wildcat,  and  said, 

“  ‘I’ve  had  enough  of  this.  You’re  going  to  die.  But, 
because  we’re  relatives,  I’ll  do  you  a  favor.  I’ll  give 
you  your  choice  as  to  how  you  want  to  die.’ 

“The  little  wildcat  pretended  to  be  very  much 
afraid.  He  said, 

“  ‘It’s  true  we  are  relatives,  so  it  isn’t  right  for  you 
to  kill  me  with  your  teeth  and  your  claws.  Tie  my 
hands  and  feet,  and  throw  me  into  this  fire,  and  I’ll 
die  that  way.’ 

“The  leopard  agreed,  and  the  deed  was  done.  Of 
course,  the  little  wildcat  didn’t  die.  He  fell  right  into 
the  entrance  of  the  woodchuck’s  den,  and  the  wood¬ 
chuck  was  waiting  there  to  gnaw  off  the  vines  with 
which  he  had  been  tied.  In  a  few  seconds  the  little 
wildcat  was  free  again,  and  running  out  of  the  other 


entrance  of  the  den  behind  the  leopard,  he  began 
to  taunt  him  by  saying, 

“  ‘Ha,  ha,  you  are  not  so  smart  after  all — look,  I’m 
free!’ 

“The  leopard,  who  was  very  much  surprised,  said, 
‘My,  that’s  a  good  trick.  If  you  will  show  me  how  to 
do  it,  too,  I  will  promise  never  to  bother  you  again.’ 

“The  little  wildcat  refused  at  first,  but  finally  he 
agreed,  saying, 

“  ‘Of  course,  you’ll  have  to  let  me  tie  your  hands 
and  feet  as  you  tied  mine.  And  since  you’re  so  much 
bigger  than  I  am,  the  fire  will  have  to  be  much 
bigger,  too!’ 

“The  leopard  agreed,  and  a  new  fire  was  built.  Of 
course,  it  was  built  without  any  hole  in  the  middle 
of  it.  The  leopard  was  thrown  into  it  and  died  in  the 
fire,  so  the  little  wildcat  and  his  friend  the  wood¬ 
chuck  had  peace  for  the  rest  of  their  lives. 

“Why  do  you  think  I  told  you  this  story  in  church? 
Satan  is  just  like  the  little  wildcat.  When  we  think 
we  can  get  anything  of  value  from  him,  we’re  just 
deceiving  ourselves,  because  all  he  wants  to  do  is 
to  deceive  us  and  to  make  sure  that  we  end  up  in  the 
big  fire.  When  Satan  offers  to  show  us  something 
good,  we  can  be  certain  that  it  is  just  a  trick.” 

Just  an  African  animal  story?  Yes,  but  as  the 
evangelist  went  on  to  tell  of  the  wiles  of  Satan  and 
the  temptations  that  he  can  bring  into  the  lives  of 
believers,  you  can  be  sure  that  the  point  was  well 
made,  and  that  missionaries  as  well  as  the  African 
Christians  had  a  mental  picture  of  Satan’s  trickery 
and  the  “big  fire”  behind  it.  Oh,  that  the  Azande 
people,  bound  by  Satan  as  they  are,  may  know  the 
freedom  that  can  be  theirs  in  our  blessed  Lord 
Jesus  Christ! 


Have  You  Seen 

All  of  These  A.I.M.  Publications? 

Order  these  books: 

Trumpet  Notes  in  Congo  by  Austin  Paul . $1.50 

Sheee-ja  by  Lucilda  A.  Newton . 50 

Subscribe  for  "Inland  Africa" 

Issued  bi-monthly  . per  year  .75 


AFRICA  INLAND  MISSION 


Founded  in  1895  by  Peter  Cameron  Scott 
HEADQUARTERS 

375  Carlton  Avenue,  Brooklyn  5,  New  York 

CANADIAN  OFFICE 

I  Glencrest  Boulevard,  Toronto  13,  Ontario 

Over  400  workers  in  six  fields  in  East  and  Central  Africa. 
Information  and  Literature  sent  upon  request. 
Deputation  speakers  available. 


Deputation  Secretaries 

REV.  WILLIAM  S.  PONTIER  REV.  AUSTIN  PAUL 

48  Tennyson  Place  557  E.  Locust  Avenue 

Passaic,  New  Jersey  Philadelphia  44,  Pa. 

REV.  GEORGE  W.  WEPPLER 
I  Glencrest  Boulevard,  Toronto  13,  Ontario 

<.R»NTe0 

u.s.*- 


Life  .  .  .  in  the 

By  ARTHUR  M.  BARNETT,  M.D. 


Eighth  Edition-Total  178,000 


The  author  of  this  booklet, 
Dr.  Arthur  M.  Barnett  is 
a  medical  missionary  of  the 
Africa  Inland  Mission. 


No.  351— Price  5  cents  each.  One  dozen  40  cents;  three  dozen 
$1.00;  one  hundred  $2.75.  Kindly  add  postage. 

Marliss  Publishing  Co.,  Harrington  Park,  N.  J. 


“LIFE ...  IN  THE  BLOOD” 

By 

ARTHUR  M.  BARNETT,  M.D. 


The  Importance  of  the  Blood 
from  the  Standpoint 
of  a  Christian 
Physician 


The  sterile  quiet 
of  Hackensack  Hos- 
,  was  suddenly 

v  ,jv\  disrupted  on  the 

Fourth  of  July  by  a 
literal  flood  of  pa¬ 
tients  pouring  in  on  ambulances,  trucks,  and 
cars — the  result  of  a  tragedy  in  a  near-by  town. 
A  car  at  an  auto-racing  arena  had  suddenly 
left  the  track  an_  gone  ploughing  into  the 
crowd  of  spectators,  creating  panic  and  death 
and  sending  this  stream  of  groaning  victims  to 
the  door. 


I  was  called  immediately  to  the  emergency 
room.  Several  other  doctors  were  there  as  well. 
We  disregarded  for  the  moment  a  score  of  less 
seriously  ir.,ured  ones  and  pitted  all  our  skill 
and  strength  against  the  breathless  march  of 
death  on  those  whose  wounds  were  most  severe. 


Drawing*  bv  Ramion  D.  Marvin. 

3 


Several  were  wheeled  into  the  operating 
room  together.  We  looked  at  the  small  boy.  It 
was  too  late  for  him.  He  died  before  our  eyes. 
We  turned  to  the  dead  boy’s  father.  Both  his 
legs  were  mangled.  He  was  dying  even  then 
from  loss  of  blood.  But  we  would  not  give  him 
up.  Feverishly  we  worked.  A  donor  of  blood 
was  found  in  haste.  We  placed  him  on  a 
stretcher  close  by  the  side  of  the  dying  man. 
An  arm  of  each  was  bared  and  scrubbed  and 
sterilized.  I  plunged  a  needle  into  the  donor's 
arm  and  drew  out  a  syringe  full  of  rich  red 
blood,  handed  it  to  my  superior,  and  attached 
a  new  syringe  to  the  needle  in  the  vein  for 
more.  The  other  doctor  injected  the  life-giving 
fluid  into  the  patient's  vein,  syringe  by  syringe, 
watching  him  closely  all  the  while.  Slowly  the 
tide  seemed  to  turn.  And  then  we  knew  he 
had  a  chance  to  live.  Exultation  was  ours.  We 
had  foiled  the  dark  dread  enemy  of  man  and 
saved  a  soul  from  death.  Through  this  trans¬ 
fusion  and  others  that  followed,  in  combination 
with  several  operations  and  months  of  patient 
nursing,  this  one  as  good  as  dead  was  restored 
once  more  to  health  and  usefulness. 

A  week  or  two  after  this  incident,  at  a 
summer  Bible  conference,  I  found  myself  sit¬ 
ting  at  the  Lord's  Table,  thinking  of  the  wine 
representing  the  blood  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
and  of  the  bread  representing  His  body.  Sud¬ 
denly  it  occurred  to  me  that  the  blood  of  Christ 
shed  on  the  cross  of  Calvary  constituted  the 
greatest  blood  transfusion  this  world  has  ever 
known.  As  I  reflected  on  the  subject  that  morn¬ 
ing,  and  as  I  have  meditated  on  it  since  that 
4 


time,  I  have  had  an  increased  understanding 
of  the  power  in  that  blood. 

The  person  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  is  the 
greatest  subject  of  the  Bible.  His  person  gives 
value  to  His  shed  blood.  This  blood  is  the  very 
life  of  Christian  faith  just  as  the  blood  is  the 
sine  qua  non  of  medicine.  Take  the  blood  from 
the  body,  and  you  have  nothing  left  but  a 
corpse.  Take  the  blood  of  Calvary  from  Chris¬ 
tianity,  and  you  have  lifeless  creed  instead  of 
living  faith. 

"The  life  of  the  flesh  is  in  the  blood:  and  I 
have  given  it  to  you  upon  the  altar  to  make  an 
atonement  for  your  souls:  for  it  is  the  blood 
that  maketh  an  atonement  for  the  soul"  (Lev 
17:11). 

DRAWING  ON  THE  BLOOD  BANK 

The  blood  is  the  life  of 
the  living  organism.  That 
fact  was  proclaimed  in  the 
Bible  many  years  ago.  We 
find  a  statement  of  it  in 
Genesis  9:4  and  6: 

"Flesh  with  the  life  there¬ 
of,  which  is  the  blood  there¬ 
of,  shall  ye  not  eat  .  .  . 
Whoso  sheddeth  man's  blood,  by  man  shall  his 
blood  be  shed:  for  in  the  image  of  God  made 
he  man." 

Several  other  similar  passages  might  be  cited  in 
this  connection.  But  it  is  only  in  comparatively 
recent  years  that  our  scientists  have  discovered 
this  fact  and  pronounced  it  to  be  literally  and 
absolutely  true.  Especially  has  it  been  demon¬ 
strated  in  medical  science. 


5 


Not  only  is  blood  the  life  of  each  individual 
as  it  flows  in  his  own  arteries  and  veins,  but 
blood  that  is  given  as  a  transfusion  constitutes 
one  of  the  finest,  if  not  the  finest,  cure  for  many 
diseases.  There  is  scarcely  a  disease  for  which 
transfusions  are  not  given,  A  graph  of  the  num¬ 
ber  of  transfusions  given  in  a  recent  three  years 
in  the  hospital  in  which  I  worked  would  show 
the  increase  on  a  practically  perpendicular  line, 
so  important  has  the  blood  transfusion  become 
in  modern  medicine. 

The  Russians  have  found  lately  that  blood, 
if  properly  stored,  can  be  kept  in  good  condi¬ 
tion  after  it  has  been  removed  from  the  body. 
They  have  formed  blood  banks  where  they  store 
blood  taken  from  volunteers  or  taken  immedi¬ 
ately  from  people  who  have  met  an  accidental 
death.  They  are  putting  it  away  in  ice-boxes 
and  can  always  use  it  at  a  moment’s  notice. 
The  big  hospitals  of  America  also  are  now 
operating  blood  banks.  When  a  patient  needs 
an  emergency  transfusion,  it  is  no  longer  neces¬ 
sary  to  search  for  a  donor.  The  blood  needed 
for  that  purpose  is  simply  taken  from  the 
blood  bank.  The  part  these  blood  banks  are 
playing  in  modern  war  surgery  is  amazing. 
During  a  recent  trip  through  Canada,  I  saw 
everywhere,  along  the  highways  and  in  shop 
windows,  Red  Cross  placards  calling  for  three 
thousand  donors  who  would  give  their  blood 
to  banks  for  the  use  of  wounded  soldiers  over¬ 
seas.  But  why  is  blood  so  important  in  medi¬ 
cine,  and  what  is  the  connection  between  this 
and  blood  as  it  is  mentioned  throughout  the 
Bible? 


6 


Not  long  ago,  it  was  discovered  that  every 
living  organism  is  made  up,  not  merely  of 
limbs  and  organs,  but  that  it  is  built  of  minute 
living  cells,  each  individual  cell  a  unit  in  it¬ 
self.  The  human  body,  for  example,  is  com¬ 
posed  of  billions  of  cells,  a  different  variety  for 
each  separate  organ.  These  individual  cells  of 
our  bodies  are  dependent  upon  the  blood  each 
moment  of  their  existence.  They  could  not 
possibly  live  without  the  blood.  The  blood  it¬ 
self  we  have  come  to  consider  as  a  very  mobile 
organ — not  just  so  much  red  liquid  but  a  re¬ 
markably  mobile  organ.  It  is  the  fastest  moving 
organ  that  the  body  possesses,  for  it  travels 
with  great  rapidity  to  the  place  where  it  is 
needed. 

Blood  has  both  a  liquid  and  a  solid  content. 
The  latter  is  made  up  in  part  of  a  cellular 
element — white  and  red  cells.  About  5,000,000 
red  and  about  5,000  white  cells  are  contained 
in  one  cubic  millimeter  of  blood.  Considering 
that  a  normal  body  has  six  to  seven  quarts  of 
blood,  one  might  calculate  the  tremendous 
number  of  red  and  white  cells  which  we  have 
in  our  systems.  The  life  of  a  red  cell  is  only 
about  two  weeks,  so  much  of  our  food  goes 
for  the  building  up  of  new  red  cells. 

The  red  cell  carries  a  chemical  compound 
called  hemoglobin.  This,  as  it  passes  through 
the  lungs  in  the  red  cells,  hooks  on  to  the 
oxygen  very  lightly.  Then  it  travels  post  haste 
to  the  various  body  cells  to  drop  its  precious 
load,  for  the  cells  require  oxygen  every  minute 
of  our  lives.  This  oxygen  supply  is  the  most 
urgent  requirement  of  our  bodies.  We  cannot 
7 


live  without  air.  If  you  can  hold  your  breath 
for  three  or  four  minutes,  you  are  doing  well; 
but  you  cannot  do  it  much  longer  than  that  if 
you  care  to  keep  on  living. 

THE  ELEMENT  OF  LIFE 

What  has  this  physiologi¬ 
cal  discussion  to  do  with  our 
relationship  to  God  ?  We  are 
told  in  the  first  and  second 
chapters  of  Genesis  that,  when 
God  made  Adam,  He  made 
him  in  His  own  image; 
then  He  breathed  into  him 
the  breath  of  life,  and  man 
became  a  living  soul.  God  gave  man  the  breath 
of  life;  but  man  sinned,  and  then  he  died.  The 
God-given  breath  was  gone.  In  our  physical 
bodies,  we  cannot  appropriate  any  breath 
whatsoever  unless  we  do  so  through  our  blood. 
So  also  in  the  spiritual  realm,  we  can  partake 
of  no  spiritual  life  whatsoever  unless  we  do  so 
through  the  precious  blood  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  He  Himself  said,  when  He  was  here  on 
earth: 

“Except  ye  eat  the  flesh  of  the  Son  of  man, 
and  drink  his  blood,  ye  have  no  life  in  you" 
(John  6:53). 

However,  as  it  is  the  duty  of  the  individual 
body  cells  to  appropriate  from  the  blood  the 
oxygen  which  they  need,  so  also  it  is  the  re¬ 
sponsibility  of  each  person  in  this  world  to 
apply  the  blood  of  our  Lord  to  his  own  soul 
that  he  may  receive  the  breath  of  life. 

Now  let  us  consider  the  liquid  content  of 
the  blood.  Next  in  importance  to  oxygen  is  the 

8 


body’s  requirement  of  water.  It  is  impossible 
for  a  human  being  to  do  without  water  for 
more  than  three  or  four  days.  Most  of  us  do 
not  know  the  meaning  of  real  thirst.  But  some¬ 
times  I  have  seen  it  in  patients  who  were  un¬ 
able  to  retain  water.  It  is  a  horrible  thing  to 
see  any  one  who  needs  water  and  yet  who  can¬ 
not  get  it.  But  every  drop  of  water  that  travels 
to  the  individual  cells  of  our  bodies  must 
travel  through  our  blood.  We  drink  the  water; 
it  goes  down  into  our  stomachs;  then  it  is 
absorbed  into  the  blood  stream,  which  carries 
it  out  to  every  living  cell. 

In  the  New  Testament,  we  read  of  how  our 
Lord  sat  at  the  edge  of  Jacob’s  well  and  talked 
to  the  woman  of  Samaria.  His  message  to  her 
sin-burdened  soul  was  this: 

"Whosoever  drinketh  of  the  water  that  I 
shall  give  him  shall  never  thirst;  but  the  water 
that  I  shall  give  him  shall  be  in  him  a  well 
of  water  springing  up  into  everlasting  life" 
(John  4:14). 

Again,  on  the  last  great  day  of  the  Jewish 
Feast  of  Tabernacles,  our  Lord  stood  in  the 
midst  of  the  festive  throng  and  cried; 

"If  any  man  thirst,  let  him  come  unto  me, 
and  drink"  (John  7:37). 

When  Jesus  Christ  made  that  momentous 
proclamation,  had  He  not  been  looking  for¬ 
ward  to  the  shedding  of  His  own  blood — I 
say  this  reverently — He  would  have  been  pro¬ 
claiming  a  lie,  for  sinners  could  not  have  ob¬ 
tained  the  water  of  life  except  through  the 
blood  that  was  spilled  at  Calvary.  The  Saviour’s 
offer  would  have  been  in  vain,  for  water  must 
come  through  the  blood. 

9 


The  third  important  requirement  of  the  body 
is  food.  A  person  can  get  along  without  food  a 
little  longer  than  he  can  get  along  without  air 
or  water.  Occasionally  some  have  abstained 
from  food  for  forty  days,  as  our  Lord  did,  but 
to  fast  much  longer  than  that  would  be’  im¬ 
possible.  The  individual  cells  in  the  body  would 
shrivel  and  die.  We  must  have  food  to  sustain 
life. 


When  food  is  taken  into  our  bodies,  it  is 
digested  and  absorbed  through  the  intestinal 
tract,  then  carried  through  the  blood  stream  to 
the  individual  cells.  No  benefit  is  derived  from 
the  food  you  eat  until  it  has  passed  through  the 
blood  to  the  cells  of  your  body  that  need  it. 
Our  Lord  said  to  the  crowds  by  Galilee's 
shore: 

1  am  the  bread  of  life:  he  that  cometh  to 
me  shall  never  hunger"  (John  6:35). 

Through  the  shed  blood,  we  obtain  that 
breath  of  life  which  transforms  us  into  new 
beings  in  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord.  Through  the 
same  blood,  we  receive  the  supply  of  living 
water  in  our  souls.  And  through  that  blood 
stream,  too,  we  feed  upon  the  bread  of  life. 


THE  UNIVERSAL  DONOR 

But  modern  research  has 
made  other  findings  about 
blood.  Much  experimenting 
was  required  to  ascertain 
whether  or  not  blood  could 
be  transferred  from  one  per¬ 
son  to  another.  Then  in  an 
empirical  way,  it  came  to 
light  that  human  blood 


10 


falls  into  four  main  classifications.  These  are 
known  as  Type  I,  Type  II,  Type  III,  and  Type 
IV.  No  person  can  receive  blood  from  another 
person  unless  the  two  types  of  blood  coincide. 
For  instance,  if  a  Type  III  patient  were  given 
a  transfusion  of  Type  II  blood,  he  would  go 
into  convulsions  and  die  a  horrible  death. 
Therefore,  Type  II  blood  must  be  given  to  a 
Type  II  person,  Type  III  blood  to  a  Type 

III  person,  and  Type  I  blood  to  a  Type 
I  person.  However,  Type  IV  is  different  from 
the  other  three  types.  A  person  who  has  Type 

IV  blood  is  called  a  universal  donor.  He  can 
give  blood  to  any  person — that  is,  to  almost 
any  person,  for  there  are  a  few  patients  who 
cannot  take  even  Type  IV — but  he  himself  can 
receive  blood  only  from  another  person  of 
Type  IV. 

Let  us  apply  these  findings  also  to  the 
blood  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  When  God 
looked  up  and  down  the  world  to  see  if  there 
was  any  person  perfect  before  Him,  He  found 
that  there  was  none.  Then  He  looked  upon  His 
only  begotten  Son  and  saw  in  Him  one  who 
could  and  would  become  the  Universal  Donor 
to  the  world.  The  blood  of  His  Son  was  suffi¬ 
cient  to  cover  the  sin  of  every  individual  in  the 
world.  No  other  one  could  have  donated  blood 
that  would  suffice.  There  was — and  is — only 
one  Universal  Donor;  and  I  am  glad  there  is 
only  one,  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

Whenever  I  give  a  blood  transfusion,  I  think 
of  the  willingness  of  the  donor  to  give  his 
blood.  Often,  when  the  call  is  issued,  at  least 
a  dozen  people  respond,  but  sometimes  a 
11 


donor’s  blood  does  not  match  the  blood  of  the 
patient,  and  his  offer  must  be  refused.  Yet, 
when  it  does  match,  the  volunteer  is  really 
happy.  I  have  thought  of  how  willingly  the 
Lord  laid  down  His  life  and  stored  the  bank 
to  its  capacity  with  His  blood.  Now  it  is  there 
and  may  be  received  for  the  asking.  I  have 
never  known  a  patient  to  refuse  a  transfusion, 
yet  according  to  law,  he  or  his  relatives  must 
sign  papers  to  the  effect  that  he  will  take  the 
blood.  But  there  is  no  hesitancy.  Instead, 
patients  will  be  urgent  because  they  have  heard 
about  the  effectiveness  of  a  transfusion. 

No  transfusion  that  a  doctor  can  give  is  en¬ 
dowed  with  potency  to  put  life  into  a  person 
who  is  already  in  the  morgue.  The  patient 
must  have  left  at  least  a  spark  of  life.  But  the 
power  of  the  blood  of  Christ  is  such  that  it 
takes  a  man  who  is  dead  in  trespasses  and  sins, 
and  as  the  healing  power  of  that  blood  flows 
in,  it  transforms  the  dead  person  into  a  new 
and  living  creature — alive  in  Christ  for  all 
eternity.  That  blood  holds  the  power  of  resur¬ 
rection.  How  utterly  foolish  is  the  man  who 
would  refuse  such  a  transfusion ! 

I  have  heard  the  oft-repeated  statement  that 
the  blood  of  Christ  was  just  as  efficacious  flow¬ 
ing  in  His  veins  as  it  was  when  it  flowed  from 
His  side  on  the  cross  of  Calvary.  That  is  utter 
nonsense.  How  foolish  would  be  the  doctor 
who  would  lay  the  blood-donor  on  a  stretcher 
beside  the  patient  and  say:  "Your  blood  is 
doing  the  patient  good.  We  shall  just  stand  by 
to  see  how  long  it  does.”  What  foolishness! 
As  long  as  the  blood  is  in  the  donor’s  veins,  it 
12 


cannot  help  the  patient.  Certainly  "life  ...  is 
in  the  blood,"  but  the  divine  ordinance  is  this: 
"I  have  given  it  to  you  upon  the  altar  to  make 
an  atonement  for  your  souls”  (Lev.  17:11). 
The  blood  must  be  drained  from  the  sacrificial 
victim’s  veins  before  it  can  be  poured  upon  the 
altar  to  make  atonement*  for  the  soul.  "This 
cup,”  said  our  Lord  on  the  eve  of  offering  up 
Himself,  "is  the  new  testament  in  my  blood, 
which  is  shed  for  you”  (Luke  22:20). 

MECHANISM  FOR  DEFENSE 

We  appropriate  the  blood 
of  the  altar  by  an  initial  act 
of  believing.  After  that, 
we  enter  into  a  continuous 
moment-by- moment  depend¬ 
ence  upon  it  throughout 
our  Christian  lives.  That  is 
why  Christ’s  blood  is  doubly 
precious  to  us  as  Chris¬ 
tians.  In  this  respect,  there  is  another  remark¬ 
able  fact  about  the  blood.  It  possesses  a  marvel¬ 
ous  defense  mechanism  in  which  the  white  cells 
play  an  important  part.  The  white  cells  are 
little  soldiers  that  travel  at  a  moment's  notice  to 
any  point  of  the  body  where  they  are  needed. 
If  you  get  a  cut  or  a  burn  on  your  arm  or  leg, 
these  cells  hasten  to  the  spot  and  set  up  a  wall 
of  defense  to  overcome  the  germs  as  they  try 
to  find  entrance  into  the  body.  In  addition  to 
the  white  cells,  the  liquid  portion  of  the  blood 
contains  a  variety  of  immune  bodies  to  combat 
each  individual  disease.  That  is  why  it  is  possi¬ 
ble  to  give  such  inoculations  as  smallpox 
13 


vaccine.  Their  purpose  is  to  stimulate  the  body 
in  the  production  of  immune  bodies  that  will 
fight  the  smallpox  germ.  Typhoid  vaccine  stim¬ 
ulates  the  production  of  immune  bodies  that 
lay  siege  to  typhoid  germs. 

I  believe  that,  when  God  created  man  and 
placed  him  in  the  Garden  of  Eden,  man  had  a 
perfect  physical  defense  mechanism,  for  he 
was  not  subject  to  any  being  but  God  Him¬ 
self.  God  made  him  to  have  dominion  over  all 
the  animals  and  creeping  things  and  every  in¬ 
ferior  order  of  created  being.  He  was  to  give 
them  names  and  to  rule  over  them.  But  when 
man  fell,  instead  of  having  dominion,  he  be¬ 
came  subject  to  such  infinitesimal  animals  that 
many  of  them  man  has  not  yet  seen  even  under 
a  high-powered  microscope.  For  man  falls  be¬ 
fore  the  invisible  smallpox  germ.  I  believe  that 
God  gave  to  Adam  such  a  perfect  defense 
mechanism  that  he  could  overcome  all  disease. 
That  is  one  reason  why  Adam,  as  he  came  from 
the  hand  of  God  before  the  fall,  could  not  have 
died. 

It  may  be  that  in  the  millennial  age  God 
will  again  restore  to  us  such  a  mechanism  of 
defense  against  disease.  But,  imperfect  as  may 
be  the  blood  defense  of  the  human  body  now, 
I  know  that  the  blood  shed  at  the  cross  of 
Calvary  has  the  perfect  defense  mechanism 
for  every  temptation  that  can  come  to  a  child 
of  God.  We  claim  the  victory  of  that  blood, 
and  can  rest  assured  that  the  immune  bodies 
will  be  sent  up  to  overcome  the  evil  in  every 
attack  which  can  be  launched  against  us. 

My  dear  mother  spoke  constantly  of  the  blood 
14 


of  Christ.  She  would  mention  it  so  frequently 
in  her  prayers  that  sometimes  my  heart  would 
raise  the  question,  "Why  do  you  have  to 
mention  the  blood  so  many  times?”  But  since 
I  have  come  to  understand  more  fully  the  im¬ 
portance  and  preciousness  of  the  blood  of 
Christ,  I  have  thought,  instead,  "Mother,  you 
never  mentioned  it  enough.” 

A  right  evaluation  of  the  blood  has  changed 
my  way  of  praying.  It  has  also  changed  my 
conception  of  living  the  Christian  life,  for  I 
have  found  in  that  all-powerful  blood  of  my 
Lord  such  a  perfect  defense  mechanism  that 
there  is  no  excuse  for  me  to  fall.  I  come  into 
the  presence  of  God  through  that  blood.  I 
may  claim  the  power  of  that  blood  for  victory 
over  every  sin,  moment  by  moment,  each  day 
of  my  life. 

The  blood  is  the  very  essence  of  the  gospel 
message.  Apart  from  it,  there  is  no  breath  of 
life,  no  living  water,  no  bread  of  heaven  on 
which  to  feed,  no  defense  to  meet  Satanic 
wiles.  If  you  have  never  appropriated  this 
divine  blood  transfusion,  you  have  only  to  con¬ 
fess  your  need  to  Him  in  genuine  repentance 
and  faith,  and  the  Christ  of  Calvary’s  cross 
will  apply  His  cleansing  blood  to  you,  for 
the  blood  is  on  the  altar,  to  make  atonement 
for  your  soul.  And  you,  dear  Christian, 
when  you  partake  again  of  the  Lord’s  Supper, 
let  your  meditation  be  freshly  blessed  by  a 
new  understanding  of  the  gift  you  received 
when  the  divine  Universal  Donor  gave  His 
blood  for  you — for  "the  life  ...  is  in  the 
blood.” 


15 


AFRICA  INLAND  MISSION 

375  CARLTON  AVENUE 
BROOKLYN  5,  N.  Y. 


The  Mission  operates  in  5  fields 
in  East  and  Central  Africa, 
among  50  tribes.  The  work 
began  in  1895  and  in  1949 
occupies  56  stations,  with  a 
force  of  340  missionaries. 


If  desired  for  missionary  distribu¬ 
tion,  the  mission  will  supply  this 
pamphlet,  in  reasonable  quantities, 
without  charge. 


**»•"■* o 


O.s.*' 


THE 


IRINGTON  PRESS 


'*)  TiJiU  ‘Sudd  ’Ttty  &6,wicA 

LONG  ago,  when  a  humble  fisherman  announced  his  faith  in  Jesus  of  Nazareth  by 
saying,  "Thou  art  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God,”  his  Lord  declared, 
"Upon  this  rock  1  will  build  my  church.”  From  the  deepest  shadows  of  the  Dark 
Continent  that  confession  has  come  forth  again — not  once,  but  thousands  of  times — 
on  the  lips  of  men  and  women  whose  pagan  life  was  ruled  by  fear  and  sin  and  sor¬ 
row  and  cruelty.  With  these,  "as  lively  stones,"  the  church  is  being  built. 

There  are  many  who  visualize  only  that  place  of  missionary  activity  which  is 
concerned  with  bringing  heathen  souls  to  the  place  of  making  that  confession  from 
the  heart.  Yet  Paul,  the  great  missionary  of  his  age,  spoke  of  "that  which  cometh 
upon  me  daily,  the  care  of  all  the  churches.”  So  it  is  with  the  missionary  of  today. 
A  second  and  equally  important  phase  of  his  ministry  is  that  of  nurturing  new-born 
souls  and  leading  the  infant  church  on  to  maturity.  It  is  a  task  which  takes  patience 
and  understanding  coupled  with  wisdom  from  above  and  a  pouring  out  of  the  heart 
in  prayer  until  Christ  be  formed  in  those  who  have  come  out  of  the  bondage  of 

Page  Three 


heathenism  and  opened  their  hearts  to  the 
lordship  of  the  One  who  has  redeemed 
them.  The  new  birth  is  the  starting  point 
for  such  a  ministry. 

The  Born-again  One  in  His  New 
Sphere  of  Life 

A  heathen  man  affirms  his  faith  in 
Christ.  He  begins  to  adjust  his  life  to 
that  faith.  This  means  a  complete  break 
with  heathenism.  The  first  step  which  he 
takes  may  be  to  burn  his  fetishes  and  de¬ 
stroy  his  spirit  houses.  He  ceases  to  worship  the  demons  or  ancestral  spirits  or  to  take 
part  in  the  degrading  or  immoral  customs  of  his  tribe.  If  he  has  plural  wives,  it  may 
take  time  to  straighten  out  his  family  affairs  to  the  glory  of  God.  He  is  ignorant 
equally  of  the  privileges  and  responsibilities  of  the  Christian  life,  so  he  enrolls  in  a 
catechumen  class  for  instruction.  Probably  he  attends  school  also,  for  he  will  obtain 
Page  Four 


little  spiritual  food  until  he  can  read  for  himself  such  portions  of  the  Word  of  God 
as  are  available.  At  the  end  of  two  years,  if  his  life  gives  evidence  of  genuine  con¬ 
version,  he  becomes  a  candidate  for  baptism  and  full  church  membership.  In  the 
meantime,  he  may  have  found  some  of  the  by-products  of  Christianity,  such  as 
cleanliness,  clothing,  and  better  living  conditions,  and  he  may  have  passed  through 
fiery  trials  of  persecution  by  his  clan. 

Fellowship  of  the  Saints  and  Shepherds  of  the  Flock 

Whether  in  the  large  congregation  of  the  station  church  or  among  the  handful 
of  believers  at  some  outpost  far  from  the  beaten  path,  the  fellowship  of  the  saints  is 
sweet.  They  gather  on  the  Lord’s  day  or  at  the  mid-week  prayer  time  to  search  the 
Scriptures,  to  share  each  other's  joy  and  woe,  and  unitedly  to  present  their  petitions 
at  the  throne  of  grace.  The  tried  and  faithful  are  heartened  by  the  presence  in  their 
midst  of  new  believers,  while  the  youngest  catechumen  is  strengthened  by  his  contact 
with  older  Christians. 

There  are  big  occasions,  long  looked  forward  to,  when  Christians  from  entire 
tribes  or  districts  come  together  for  conferences  of  several  days — days  of  rich  feast- 

Page  Five 


ine  on  the  Word,  marked  often  by  a  deep  moving  of  the  Holy  Spirit  upon  th_ 
hearts  of  God’s  children,  the  restoration  of  the  wayward  and  the  inspiration  of 
belonging  to  so  great  a  company  of  redeemed  ones.  Smaller  meetings  there  are, 
weekly  or  monthly,  on  many  of  the  stations,  just  for  women  or  young  people,  to 
help  them  in  their  Christian  lives  or  to  draw  them  out  in  service.  Some  whose  spir¬ 
itual  sense  is  keen  are  drawn  together  to  pour  out  their  souls  m  intercession  not 
alone  for  the  lost,  but  for  the  heart-need  of  the  church  and  the  restoration  of  back¬ 
sliders.  And  who  has  listened  to  the  hymns  at  dusk  or  dawn  that  come  from  here 
and  there  on  the  plains  or  hills,  and  not  praised  God  for  the  Christian  homes  from 
which  the  hymns  were  coming?  Rare  is  the  Christian  home  in  Africa  which  does 

not  have  its  daily  family  worship.  ... 

In  the  hundreds  of  bush  chapels,  the  leaders  of  all  the  services  are  the  teacher- 
evangelists  pastors,  and  elders,  whom  God  has  raised  up  from  among  their  brethren 
to  help  in ’shepherding  the  flock.  They  are  taking  an  increasingly  prominent  part  in 
the  station  churches  and  the  planning  and  addressing  of  the  large  conferences  as  well. 
Many  of  them  are  graduates  of  the  Mission  s  several  Bible  training  schools,  located 
at  central  points  in  each  of  the  fields  and  ministering  to  students  of  all  tribes.  These 
are  a  vital  factor  in  the  development  of  the  church  in  Africa. 

Page  Six 


Laying  by  as  the  Lord  Hath  Prospered 

Some  of  the  "tithes  and  offerings”  which  come 
into  the  "storehouse”  of  a  church  in  Central  Africa 
might  provoke  a  smile  of  amusement  from  the  un¬ 
initiate.  Shillings  and  francs  and  sentis  and  makutas 
there  are  from  those  who  have  opportunity  to  earn 
money.  But  the  offering  may  consist  of  eggs  or  fish 
or  garden  produce,  or  it  may  be  the  kind  that  crows 
or  cackles  or  bleats,  for  the  people  are  taught  their 
responsibility  to  give  from  the  time  of  their  conver¬ 
sion  and  tithing  is  the  custom  of  the  African  church. 
The  offerings  of  food  and  livestock  may  be  given 
to  help  support  the  pastors  and  evangelists,  or  they 
may  be  sold  and  the  proceeds  go  into  the  church 
"bag.”  It  is  not  uncommon  for  congregations  to  take 
special  offerings  at  the  Christmas  season  to  be  used 
in  the  Lord's  work  outside  their  own  immediate 


Page  Nine 


circle.  Not  infre¬ 
quently  gifts  have 
been  sent  to  the 
British  and  Foreign 
Bible  Society  in  ap¬ 
preciation  of  what  it 
has  done  to  make 
possible  the  printing 
of  the  Scriptures  in 
the  languages  of 
Africa. 

Since  1930  the 
African  Inland  Mis¬ 
sion  has  accepted  no 

funds  from  the  homeland  for  the  support  of  specific  evangelists.  Gifts  from  native 
Christians  have  supported  them.  Chapels,  too,  have  been  provided  largely  through 
native  contributions  of  labor,  materials,  and  cash.  This  application  of  the  indigenous 
principle  has  proved  to  be  of  untold  spiritual  blessing. 

Page  Eight 


a  Sigfothe&sse  @n  a 
hiSS,  this  enjoys 

a  visit  from  the  missionary. 


Structure  of  the 
African  Church 
Organization 


For  many  years 
the  believers  have 
had  their  own  offi¬ 
cers  within  the  local 
assembly  or  mission 
district,  and  there 
has  been  a  growing 
sense  of  responsibil¬ 
ity  on  the  part  of 
these  and  the  evan¬ 
gelists  and  pastors  who  have  shared  the  work,  yet  only  recently  has  the  church  as  a 
whole  been  formally  organized.  Tanganyika  was  the  first  to  take  this  step,  in  1939. 
Since  then  the  Congo  and  Kenya  fields  have  done  so  also.  The  African  church  has 
passed  out  of  its  childhood.  It  might  be  likened  now  to  the  adolescent,  full  of  life 
Page  Ten 


A  church  building  on  one  of  the  main  stations 


and  promise,  able  to  make  most  of  its  own  decisions,  but  still  in  need  of  guidance 
from  a  more  experienced  hand  and  the  understanding  counsel  the  missionary  can  give. 

The  organization  of  each  field  is  complete  within  itself.  There  are  a  few  varia¬ 
tions  in  the  structure,  but  the  general  plan  is  the  same.  The  responsibility  for  the 
local  congregation  rests  with  elders  and  deacons  chosen  according  to  the  Scriptural 
standard  as  set  forth  in  First  Timothy  three  and  Titus  one  to  work  with  the  evan¬ 
gelist  or  pastor.  These  local  groups,  small  and  large,  are  headed  up  by  a  central 
district  church,  usually  the  one  on  the  mission  station.  The  size  of  the  churches, 
distances  between  stations,  and  local  language  groups  have  affected  the  organiza¬ 
tion.  In  one  field  a  regional  council  comes  between  the  district  church  and  the  cen¬ 
tral  council,  which  is  composed  of  representatives  from  the  entire  field.  Other  fields 
have  not  found  it  necessary  to  have  the  intermediate  council.  Missionaries  are  ap¬ 
pointed  to  form  part  of  the  membership  of  the  councils. 

The  highest  council  deals  with  major  matters  of  church  policy,  licensing  of  and 
ordaining  of  pastors,  reviewing  of  Bible  school  curricula,  and  other  affairs  of  a 
general  nature.  Most  of  the  discipline  is  taken  care  of  by  the  local  elders  or  the 
central  church.  As  a  rule,  church  discipline  is  strict  and  those  who  engage  in  ques¬ 
tionable  practices  are  called  before  the  elders.  In  many  cases  the  guilty  party  is 

Page  Eleven 


barred  from  the  lord's  Table  until  he  shows  evidence  of  repentance.  Such  measures 
are  necessary  to  preserve  the  purity  of  the  church,  for  inducements  to  backsliding 
are  many.  With  the  exception  of  some  of  the  younger  generation  who  have  been 
bom  into  Christian  homes,  the  believer  has  a  background  utterly  lacking  in  decency 
and  morals.  Pressure  is  brought  to  bear  on  him  by  heathen  relatives  to  resort  to 
witchcraft  in  the  emergencies  of  his  life,  especially  in  times  of  sickness  and  death. 
For  the  women,  it  takes  courage  to  stand  out  against  the  pagan  rites  in  which  they 
are  expected  to  take  part  when  they  give  birth  to  children.  But  the  gospel  is  the 
power  of  God  unto  a  complete  salvation,  and  many  are  the  triumphs  over  the  bond¬ 
age  of  age-old  custom,  sin,  and  superstition. 

Saved  to  Serve  —  the  African  Church  at  Work 

In  this  African  church,  so  lately  come  out  of  heathenism,  it  is  a  remarkable 
fact  that  at  least  seventy-five  per  cent  of  its  members  are  active  in  taking  the  gospel 
to  others  in  their  vicinity.  Sunday  after  Sunday  they  go  out  in  groups  witnessing 
m  the  villages  and  preaching  the  Christ  who  has  set  them  free.  Some  spend  their 
week  ends  in  distant  places  giving  out  the  Word.  This  is  true  especially  of  students 
Page  Twelve 


and  teachers.  From  the  older  churches 
young  men  and  couples  are  going  to 
other  tribes,  where  they  must  be¬ 
come  adjusted  to  another  manner  of 
life,  different  food,  and  even  an¬ 
other  climate  in  some  instances, 
even  as  the  British  or  American  mis¬ 
sionaries  must  do.  They  know  the 
loneliness  of  laboring  in  a  strange 
land  far  from  family  or  friends. 
One  Congo  church  not  only  has 
sent  but  is  supporting  several  such 
native  missionary  couples.  It  is  a  tes¬ 
timony  to  the  power  of  the  gospel 
that  in  most  cases  the  tribes  to  which 
these  young  people  have  gone  are 
despised  by  or  traditional  enemies 
of  their  home  tribes. 


Seme  of  the  believers  efr  the  Nsawt  ©utehcpel,  which 
is  built  on  the  site  of  the  first  A.  i.  M.  station. 

Page  Thirteen 


The  Missionary's  Opportunity  with  the  African  Church 

Some  may  ask,  in  the  light  of  this  progress:  What  is  the  misisonary’s  relation  to 
the  present-day  African  church?  His  is  a  greater  responsibility  of  leadership  than 
ever  before,  not  only  as  a  counselor,  but  as  an  example,  as  one  to  say  to  his  dusky 
brethren  not,  "Go  ye,”  but,  "Let  us  go,”  as  together  they  look  on  the  unreaped 
-harvest  field,  the  areas  still  waiting  for  a  gospel  witness. 

Out  in  the  bush  are  thousands  of  Christians  true  to  their  Lord,  but  sadly  lack¬ 
ing  in  solid  Bible  teaching.  Many  groups  of  saved  people  are  listening  almost  ex¬ 
clusively  to  messages  of  an  evangelistic  nature  Sunday  after  Sunday  because  their 
African  leaders  have  not  had  sufficient  Bible  training  themselves  to  lead  their  people 
on  into  the  depths  of  the  riches  that  are  contained  in  the  Word.  There  is  unlimited 
opportunity  for  an  unlimited  number  of  missionaries  to  whom  God  has  given  a  gift 
of  opening  up  the  Word  to  engage  in  a  Bible  teaching  ministry  among  the  out- 
chapels  or  in  the  training  of  leaders  for  a  similar  ministry.  Added  to  this  is  the  dire 
need  for  those  who  will  translate  into  the  languages  of  the  people  the  Bible  com¬ 
mentaries  and  devotional  books  which  are  lacking  in  their  entirety.  The  opportunity 
throws  out  a  challenge  that  is  not  to  be  neglected. 

Vage  Fourteen 


OTHER  PAMPHLETS  IN  THIS  SERIES 


"Go  .  .  .  Evangelize” 

By  Love  Constrained  (Medical  Work) 
"Ye  Shall  Be  My  .  .  .  Daughters” 
The  African  at  School 


Free  copies  of  these  leaflets  may  be  obtained  by  writing 
Africa  Inland  Mission  Headquarters 


AFRICA  INLAND  MISSION 
373-375  Carlton  Avenue 
Brooklyn  5,  New  York 


O.  S.P- 


950 


The 


Logo  Story 

of 

God’s  Gifts 


The  Logo  Story  of  God’s  Gifts 

By  O.  R.  ZlMMERMANN 

“T  ONG,  long  ago,  when  God  made  man,”  say 
-Li  the  elders  of  the  Logo  tribe,  “He  wanted  to 
give  to  man  some  gifts  in  order  to  help  him. 
After  long  and  careful  thought,  finally  He  chose 
four  gifts  which  He  believed  would  help  man 
more  than  any  other  things  could  help  him.  These 
four  gifts  were  fire,  a  hoe,  eternal  life,  and  a 
magic  sling.  The  magic  sling  would  cause  a  garden 
to  spring  up,  already  prepared,  reaching  to  the 
point  where  the  stone  from  the  sling  would  come 
to  earth. 

“When  God  looked  for  messengers  to  take 
these  gifts  to  man,  He  found  only  two  of  them  to 
go,  a  frog  and  a  toad.  He  gave  the  first  two  gifts, 
the  fire  and  the  hoe,  to  the  frog.  The  last  two  gifts, 
the  magic  sling  and  eternal  life,  He  gave  to  the 
toad. 

“As  the  frog  and  the  toad  journeyed  together 
to  find  man  and  to  present  to  him  these  gifts,  they 
came  to  the  edge  of  a  river.  The  river  was  very 
wide  and  swift.  The  frog,  because  he  was  used  to 
the  water,  was  able  to  get  across  the  river  without 
any  difficulty.  But  the  toad,  being  a  land  creature, 
was  carried  far  down  the  stream  and  lost  when  he 
tried  to  cross  the  river.  Thus  it  is  that  man  knows 
the  fire  and  the  hoe,  but  the  magic  garden  and 
eternal  life  have  passed  forever  out  of  his  reach.” 

This  story,  which  is  a  part  of  the  folklore  of 
the  Logo  tribe  handed  down  from  generation  to 
generation,  was  known  long  before  the  white  man 


ever  reached  this  part  of  Africa.  What  a  challenge 
comes  to  us  as  Christians  when  we  think  of  the 
utter  hopelessness  that  is  reflected  in  it!  Although 
fire  and  hoe  are  useful  and  even  indispensable  in 
the  life  of  man,  one  cannot  forget  the  meaning 
behind  them— the  symbolism  of  judgment  and  la¬ 
bor.  Fire  speaks  to  our  hearts  of  God’s  judgment 
on  all  unbelievers  because  of  sin.  The  hoe  speaks 
of  God’s  sentence  of  punishment  upon  Adam: 

“Cursed  is  the  ground  for  thy  sake;  in  sorrow 
shalt  thou  eat  of  it  all  the  days  of  thy  life;  Thoms 
also  and  thistles  shall  it  bring  forth  to  thee;  and 
thou  shalt  eat  the  herb  of  the  field;  In  the  sweat  of 
thy  face  shalt  thou  eat  bread,  till  thou  return  unto 
tlie  ground”  (Gen.  3:17-19). 

If  you  could  see  the  African  as  I  have  seen 
him,  bent  over  his  hoe  for  hours  on  end,  his  ebony 
skin  glistening  with  perspiration  under  the  tropical 
sun,  you  would  realize  even  more  vividly  the  real¬ 
ity  of  that  sentence  upon  all  of  Adam’s  sons,  wheth¬ 
er  they  be  black  or  white.  Without  a  knowledge  of 
God,  the  picture  is  hopeless,  with  the  magic  garden 
and  eternal  life  forever  beyond  reach,  and  nothing 
for  which  to  live  except  the  responsibilities  of  the 
field  and  of  the  village. 

It  is  our  great  privilege  as  missionaries  to  tell 
these  people  that  the  lost  gifts  of  God  are  not 
forever  beyond  their  reach;  that  through  faith  in 
Christ  we  can  have  eternal  life,  peace  in  the  midst 
of  trials,  and  the  certainty  of  reaching  that  land 
which  is  far  better  than  the  ancient  garden  of  Eden. 
If  He  should  call  you  to  give  the  message  of  life 
and  of  hope  in  some  far-off  place,  would  you  heed 
the  call,  or  would  the  message  be  lost  again  be¬ 
cause  of  the  failure  of  the  messenger? 


AFRICA  INLAND  MISSION 

Founded  in  1895  by  Peter  Cameron  Scott 
HEADQUARTERS 

375  Carlton  Avenue,  Brooklyn  38,  New  York 

CANADIAN  OFFICE 

746  Pape  Avenue,  Toronto  6,  Canada 

Over  400  workers  in  six  fields  in  East  and  Central  Africa. 
Information  and  Literature  sent  upon  request. 
Deputation  speakers  available. 

Deputation  Secretaries 

REV.  WILLIAM  S.  PONTIER  REV.  AUSTIN  PAUL 

REV.  GEORGE  W.  WEPPLER 


Member  of  I.  F.  M.  A. 


.,.1.  v/.\\vAv.vAv.v.v.vA'iV.v.'.,.Vi*«VtV.v.y.y.*.v*v.*.ViV«Viy«*«Ny«iiVt‘.y 

Some  Have  Gone  Forth 
G.  E.  T. 

Some  have  gone  forth  far  from  loved  ones  and  home, 
Leaving  their  all  for  His  service  alone. 

Counting  the  gain  of  this  world  only  dross, 

Seeking  no  glory  save  that  of  His  cross. 

Some  have  gone  forth  into  darkness  so  dense, 

Darkness  that  crushes,  a  darkness  intense, 

There  in  far  lands  where  their  Lord  is  not  known, 
Gladly  to  work  for  His  glory  alone. 

Some  have  gone  forth  with  the  story  so  old, 

Reaping  a  harvest  more  precious  than  gold. 

Are  you,  too,  faithfully  doing  your  share, 

Helping  together  by  gifts  and  by  prayer? 

Some  have  gone  forth,  but  so  many  remain 
Safely  at  home  other  honors  to  gain. 

Millions  of  lost  ones  who  never  have  heard, 

Few,  oh  so  few  to  go  forth  with  His  word. 


y.y.«.y.y.y.y.«.y.».y.y.».y.' ..................... 


s. 


lome 


lave  G< 


lone 


G.  E.  T. 


Some  have  gone  forth  far  from  loved  ones  and  home, 
Leaving  their  all  for  His  service  alone, 

Counting  the  gain  of  this  world  only  dross, 

Seeking  no  glory  save  that  of  His  cross. 

Some  have  gone  forth  into  darkness  so  dense, 
Darkness  that  crushes,  a  darkness  intense, 

There  in  far  lands  where  their  Lord  is  not  known, 
Gladly  to  work  for  His  glory  alone. 

Some  have  gone  forth  with  the  story  so  old, 

Reaping  a  harvest  more  precious  than  gold. 

Are  you,  too,  faithfully  doing  your  share, 

Helping  together  by  gifts  and  by  prayer? 

Some  have  gone  forth,  but  so  many  remain 
Safely  at  home  other  honors  to  gain. 

Millions  of  lost  ones  who  never  have  heard, 

Few,  oh  so  few  to  go  forth  with  His  word. 


TteecU  Occi  *pieicU, 

Congo 

Kenya  F.E.A.  Tanganyika  Sudan 
Uganda 


Certificated 

15 

30 

9 

Teacher  Training 

2 

■i:' 

3- 

Bible  Schools 

16 

2 

1 

White  Schools 

7  i 

3 

1 

Industrial 

’  2 

Medical 

Doctors 

4 

1  | 

*1 

Pathologist 

1 

Laboratory 

Technician 

1 

Nurses 

8 

16 

6 

Girls’  Workers 

4 

13 

Builders 

2 

2 

2 

Printers 

1 

Bn 

General 

42 

43 

28 

Pastors 

Women’s  Work 

Evangelists 

Homemakers 

A 

AFRICA  INLAND  MISSION 

Founded  in  1895  by  Peter  Cameron  Scott 
HEADQUARTERS 

375  Carlton  Avenue,  Brooklyn  38,  N.Y. 

CANADIAN  OFFICE 

746  Pape  Avenue,  Toronto  6,  Ontario 

Over  400  workers  in  six  fields  in  East  and  Central  Africa. 
Information  and  Literature  sent  upon  request. 
Deputation  speakers  available. 

Deputation  Secretaries 

REV.  WILLIAM  S.  PONTIER  REV.  AUSTIN  PAUL 

REV.  GEORGE  W.  WEPPLER 
Member  of  the  I.F.M.A. 


SCHOOL  DAYS" 


in  Rethy  Academy  for  Missionaries'  Children 
Belgian  Congo 


Soon  after  the  first  bell  rang,  a  boy  with  sparkling  eyes 
skipped  into  the  room.  “Miss  Kuhnle,  would  you  like 
some  fried  flying  ants?  I  have  lots  of  them.”  Imme¬ 
diately  another  boy  was  proffering  some  from  his  store 
and  adding,  “I  have  more  in  my  pocket.”  Smiling, 
teacher  accepted  some  and  thought  of  the  strange  apple¬ 
polishing  that  was  done  in  Congo. 


But  that  is  only  one  of  the  differences  in  a  school  in 
Congo.  In  a  few  days  school  will  start.  Shall  we 
accompany  Bob  and  discover  some  of  the  other  varia¬ 
tions? 

Perhaps  two  days  before  opening  day  Bob  climbs  in 
the  back  of  a  truck  heading  for  Rethy.  His  father  is 
driving  this  time,  so  he  doesn’t  have  to  say  all  of  his 
farewells  yet.  Others  in  the  truck  have  had  to  say 
“good  bye”  to  their  parents,  knowing  that  they  would 
probably  not  see  them  for  three  months,  that  there  are 
no  telephones,  and  that  mail  comes  but  once  a  week. 


The  roads  are  very  dusty  if  it  is  dry  season,  and  muddy 
— often  with  holes — if  it  is  rainy  season.  Bob  will  prob¬ 
ably  arrive  with  a  sunburn  or  windburn  after  hours  of 
riding  in  the  back  of  the  truck.  However,  you  can  see 
that  the  children  have  a  good 
time  as  they  travel.  Sometimes 
they  even  see  animals  along 
the  road. 

Bob  is  happy  to  see  all  the 
other  children  when  he  ar¬ 
rives  at  the  dormitory.  Any 
improvements  made  during 
vacation  he  notices  right 
away.  Soon  he  and  his  pals 
are  noisily  comparing  notes 
on  their  vacation  hunting 
trips. 

'■1/%  The  next  morning  at  the 
usual  time  the  school  bell 
rings.  The  half  block  to 


school  is  flanked  on  both  sides  by  fenced-in  pasture  that 
looks  much  the  same  day  after  day.  But  Bob  notices 
a  new  calf  in  the  corral,  and  calls  out  the  news  to  all 
the  others. 

The  school  subjects,  as  Bob  assures  a  boy  who  writes, 
are  the  same  as  those  taught  in  the  United  States.  There 
aren’t  any  public  libraries,  science  or  art  museums,  nOr 
even  any  gymnasium.  Bob  learns  much  about  nature 
on  his  hunting  trips  and  safaris;  there  is  lots  of  room 
outside  for  him  to  play. 

Three-thirty  finally  arrives.  Bob  dashes  outdoors  to  play 
with  the  other  boys  until  supper.  After  that  there  is  an 
hour  of  study  hall  before  bed.  Is  it  always  just  that? 
There  is  no  radio,  and  the  nearest  store  is  twenty-five 
miles  away,  so  the  dormitory  staff  and  teachers  try  to  add 
variety.  One  teacher  is  helping  Bob  with  some  wood¬ 
work.  Another  gives  him  music  lessons  (though  he 
doesn’t  always  enjoy  practicing) .  The  mid-term  picnic 
each  term  is  traditional.  A  missionary  from  another  sta¬ 
tion  coming  to  show  sound-moving  pictures  is  a  real  treat. 
But  the  event  that  Bob  is  most  excited  about  is  the  trip 
(for  the  whole  school)  to  Nioka  where  there  are  two 
stores.  No,  there  aren’t  any  soft  drinks  or  ice  cream 
cones  there,  but  Bob  is  just  as  happy  with  a  can  of 
sweetened  condensed  milk. 

As  you  see,  school  is  very  different  out  here.  Just  as  at 
home,  though,  we  rejoice  in  the  Lord’s  working  in  the 
hearts  of  children.  This  last  term  a  very  capable  sev¬ 
enth  grade  girl  yielded  her  life  to  the  Lord.  Her  parents 
are  non-Christian  settlers.  Pray,  therefore,  that  she  may 
be  a  real  witness  to  them  and  that  they  may  in  no  way 
hinder  her  from  following  the  Lord. 

( From  a  letter  by  Miss  Evelyn  Kuhnle) 

• 

AFRICA  INLAND  MISSION 

375  Carlton  Avenue.  Brooklyn  5.  N.Y. 

FOUNDED  IN  1890  BY  PETER  CAMERON  SCOTT 

400  workers  in  six  fields  in  East  and  Central  Africa. 

Information  and  literature  sent  upon  request. 

Deputation  speakers  available. 


PRAISE  AND 

PRAYER 

LETTER 

April -May,  1953 


“God  is  faithful,  by  whom  ye 
were  called  under  the  fellow¬ 
ship  of  his  Son  Jesus  Christ 
our  Lord.”  I  Corinthians  1:9. 


Praise  That  God  has  enabled  the  missionaries  to 
nearly  complete  the  building  of  Victoria 
Academy  at  Nasa,  Tanganyika  Territory. 
This  Academy  will  be  used  for  the  teach¬ 
ing  of  missionaries’  children. 

Pray  The  Lord  to  supply  a  couple  to  be  home¬ 
makers  and  a  teacher  for  the  children  of 
Victoria  Academy.  It  is  hoped  it  may  be 
opened  for  the  September  term  this  year. 

Praise  For  three  men  and  three  women  who  are 
forming  a  nucleus  of  believers  at 
Asembo,  Kenya. 

Pray  For  God’s  continued  leading  and  working 
in  the  Asembo  area. 

Praise  For  the  arrival  of  the  Bible  in  the  Union 
Version  of  Swahili. 

Pray  That  a  contemplated  weekend  ministry 
in  strategic  outschool  centers  in  the  Tan¬ 
ganyika  field  might  glorify  the  Lord. 

Praise  For  the  four  presses  of  the  Mission  as 
they  publish  literature  for  the  use  of  the 
African  Christians. 

Pray  For  wisdom  in  the  work  of  literature  and 
that  more  may  be  gotten  into  the  hands 
of  the  Africans. 


Praise  For  the  large  number  of  people  reached 
for  Christ  through  the  medical  work.  At 
Kasengu  Station,  Congo,  alone,  some 
1,800  heard  the  word  everyday  they  came 
for  medicine. 

Pray  For  the  need  of  more  workers  to  lighten 
the  many  burdens  of  the  work  on  all  our 
fields. 

Praise  For  the  more  than  400  people  who  ac¬ 
cepted  Christ  in  the  District  of  Dungu, 
Congo  Beige,  during  the  past  year. 

Pray  For  the  reading  classes  in  many  places  in 
the  District  of  Dungu  Station,  as  they  are 
started  to  teach  the  women  to  read.  They 
desire  so  much  to  read  the  Word  for 
themselves. 

Praise  For  one  of  the  branch  churches  of  the 
Kyome  Station  in  Kenya,  where  over  a 
thousand  souls  professed  the  Lord  Jesus 
in  1952. 

Pray  For  the  19  students  who  are  enrolled  in 
the  Kyome  Station  Bible  School. 

Urgent  Prayer  Requests 
^  For  needed  secretarial  workers  for  the  Head¬ 
quarters.  This  is  an  important  phase  of  the  work 
of  the  Mission. 

^  For  the  two  teachers  for  Tanganyika  who  are  look¬ 
ing  to  the  Lord  to  make  it  possible  for  them  to  take 
the  London  Course  in  the  fall  of  this  year. 

For  the  acute  need  of  educational  workers  in  all 
fields. 


AFRICA  INLAND  MISSION 

375  CARLTON  AVENUE 
BROOKLYN  38.  N.Y. 

Canadian  Office: 

746  PAPE  AVENUE 
TORONTO  6.  ONTARIO 


By  Lucilda  A.  Newton 


What  does  the  term  “evangelism”  mean?  On 
the  surface,  it  might  seem  to  mean  merely 
the  seed-sowing  and  the  sprouting  of  that 
seed  into  life  in  hearts.  However,  it  was  the  sprout¬ 
ed  seed  in  the  parable  of  the  sower  which  withered 
and  was  choked  by  riches.  You  may  plough  up  a 
garden  and  you  may  prepare  it  carefully  for  the 
seed.  You  may  sow  the  seed  and  watch  it  as  it 
pushes  up  through  the  earth,  a  sign  of  life.  But  un¬ 
less  you  are  on  hand  to  deal  with  the  weeds  as 
they  too  arise,  the  weeds  eventually  take  over 
your  growing  plants,  and  they  will  rob  you  of  a 
harvest. 


So  likewise  evangelism,  meaning  merely  the 
preaching  of  the  gospel  until  professions  of  faith 
in  Jesus  Christ  are  made,  leaves  room  for  the  har¬ 
vest  thus  gained  to  be  taken  over  by  die  obnoxious 
weeds  of  former  customs  and  paganism,  and  thus, 
much  that  was  gained  may  be  ruined.  Evangelism, 


lAJhat  id  ^van^elidm  7 

By  Lucilda  A.  Newton 

What  does  the  term  “evangelism”  mean?  On 
the  surface,  it  might  seem  to  mean  merely 
the  seed-sowing  and  the  sprouting  of  that 
seed  into  life  in  hearts.  However,  it  was  the  sprout¬ 
ed  seed  in  the  parable  of  the  sower  which  withered 
and  was  choked  by  riches.  You  may  plough  up  a 
garden  and  you  may  prepare  it  carefully  for  the 
seed.  You  may  sow  the  seed  and  watch  it  as  it 
pushes  up  through  the  earth,  a  sign  of  life.  But  un¬ 
less  you  are  on  hand  to  deal  with  the  weeds  as 
they  too  arise,  the  weeds  eventually  take  over 
your  growing  plants,  and  they  will  rob  you  of  a 
harvest. 

So  likewise  evangelism,  meaning  merely  the 
preaching  of  the  gospel  until  professions  of  faith 
in  Jesus  Christ  are  made,  leaves  room  for  the  har¬ 
vest  thus  gained  to  be  taken  over  by  the  obnoxious 
weeds  of  former  customs  and  paganism,  and  thus, 
much  that  was  gained  may  be  ruined.  Evangelism, 


to  be  truly  an  enduring  work,  must  necessarily 
include  also  the  building  up  and  establishing  of 
the  souls  that  have  been  won  to  the  Lord  during 
the  time  of  seed-sowing. 

Much  mission  work  in  this  present  day  seems 
to  be  discouraging  at  times.  There  is  so  much  red 
tape  to  be  dealt  with— days  that  must  be  spent  in 
making  of  reports  that  are  required  by  the  Govern¬ 
ment  and  in  the  keeping  of  the  various  forms  of 
institutional  work  up  to  standard.  Is  this  the  work 
of  a  missionary  who  has  been  sent  to  evangelize? 
On  the  surface,  it  would  seem  that  the  answer  is, 
“No.”  But  calmer  reflection  may  produce  a  differ¬ 
ent  answer. 

The  African  boy  or  girl  professing  faith  in  Jesus 
Christ  thereby  rightly  separates  himself  from  much 
of  his  tribal  life.  The  native  dance  is  taboo.  Like¬ 
wise  are  the  beer  drinks.  Likewise  are  the  songs 
with  which  he  has  been  familiar  since  infancy. 
Likewise  are  the  talk-fests  of  boys  and  girls  where 
the  subjects  discussed  are  unworthy  of  one  who 
bears  the  name  of  Christ. 

All  that  is  left  to  these  young  people  who  have 
become  Christians  is  eating,  sleeping,  and  working. 
In  fact,  even  fellowship  in  some  of  the  work  must 
be  foregone  should  it  mean  working  on  the 
Lord  s  day  or  working  on  a  community  project 
where  it  must  be  accompanied  by  the  old  pagan 
dance  or  songs.  Shall  a  young  day-old  believer  be 
cast  back  into  these  surroundings,  cut  off  from  all 
of  the  past  which  constitutes  African  social  life, 
but  with  nothing  to  fill  that  great  vacuum? 

To  a  great  extent  the  mission  school  (in  spite 
of  much  red  tape)  fills  this  void  for  the  average 
Christian  boy  or  girl  in  Africa.  For  them,  its  “futi- 
ball”  and  other  games  replace  the  dance.  Its  choirs 
and  singing  classes  replace  the  heathen  songs.  Its 
Christian  fellowship  more  than  offsets  the  old  talk- 
fests.  And  its  fascinating  studies  fill  the  waking 
hours  with  interest  even  when  the  students  have 
returned  to  their  homes  for  the  night. 


Likewise  the  medical  work  is  becoming  more 
and  more  fettered  with  red  tape.  Can  the  medical 
missionary  still  be  an  evangelist,  sowing  the  seed 
and  building  up  Christians?  Africa  is  still  the  land 
of  disease,  and  death  stalks  along  the  little  winding 
paths  and  into  the  mud  homes.  A  frantic  mother 
picks  up  her  ailing  child-she  has  done  what  she 
can  with  the  witch  doctor  and  there  remains  only 
the  mission  hospital.  Help  is  given  there,  the  little 
one  recovers,  and  a  heathen  heart  is  made  soft  and 
responsive  to  the  gospel  story  told  to  the  mother  in 
the  examination  room  while  the  child  is  being  cared 
for. 


But  more  than  that,  in  the  evangelism  of  estab¬ 
lishing  and  building  up  the  Christian,  there  is  a 
great  ministry.  Government  hospitals  and  dispens¬ 
aries  are  few  and  far  between.  A  Christian  becomes 
ill.  To  do  nothing  courts  death.  But  where  shall  he 
go  for  help?  Since  becoming  a  Christian,  he  can¬ 
not  very  well  consider  consulting  the  witch  doctor 
any  more. 

If  a  Government  hospital  is  near,  the  solution 
to  the  problem  is  very  simple.  But  if  such  a  dis¬ 
pensary  is  not  near,  shall  the  Christian  compro¬ 
mise  and  seek  his  native  medicine  which  so  often 
is  accompanied  by  heathen  worship-or  shall  he 
just  grin  and  bear  it  ?  The  mission  dispensary  or 
the  mission  hosptial  provides  for  such  a  one  help 
in  Jesus’  name,  and  the  name  of  One  whom  he  has 
accepted  as  his  Lord  and  Saviour-and  the  babe  in 
Christ  realizes  that  “all  things  in  Jesus  I  find.” 

To  whom  shall  a  Christian  mother  go  in  the 
hour  of  her  confinement?  Surely  she  must  not  go  to 
the  heathen  grandmothers,  because  of  whose  cruel 
mercies  many  babies  and  mothers  perish.  Govern¬ 
ment  dispensaries  are  not  equipped  nor  are  their 
dispensers  taught  for  such  a  ministry.  There  is  only 
the  missionary  and  the  mission  hospital  where 
somehow  mothers  and  their  babes  come  through 
the  ordeal  of  birth  alive  and  well,  giving  praise  to 
the  Lord. 


In  every  phase  of  mission  work,  changes  are 
taking  place  due  to  increasing  Government  regula¬ 
tion.  Nevertheless,  to  the  missionary  who  has  set 
his  course,  having  determined  in  his  heart  that  his 
shall  be  a  spiritual  ministry,  neither  restrictions  nor 
regulations  can  prevent  the  going  forth  of  the 
Word  of  Life  nor  the  establishing  of  the  young 
Christian  in  the  ways  of  God.  This  is  true  because 
“the  weapons  of  our  warfare  are  not  carnal,  but 
mighty  through  God  to  the  pulling  down  of  strong¬ 
holds,”  and  God  stands  ready  to  open  doors,  give 
opportunities,  and  to  minister  through  the  channel 
which  is  yielded  to  Him  for  a  God-directed  min¬ 
istry. 


AFRICA  INLAND  MISSION 

Founded  in  1 895  by  Peter  Cameron  Scott 
HEADQUARTERS 

375  Carlton  Avenue,  Brooklyn  38,  New  York 

CANADIAN  OFFICE 

746  Pape  Avenue,  Toronto  6,  Canada 
Deputation  Secretaries 

REV.  WILLIAM  S.  PONTIER  REV.  AUSTIN  PAUL 

REV.  GEORGE  W.  WEPPLER 


Member  of  the  I.  F.  M.  A. 


375  Carlton  Ave. 


Brooklyn  5,  N.  Y. 


Sk 


czCittleit  ^father 


eee-ia  S 

By  Lucilda  A.  Newton 


^HEEE-JA  didn’t  have  any  father  any  more— 
^  people  said  that  he  was  dead.  But  he  had  lots 
of  little  fathers.  In  America  we  call  them  uncles, 
but  to  a  little  African  boy  they  are  little  fathers. 
Three  of  Sheee-ja’s  little  fathers  lived  right  near 
Grandmother’s  hut.  Some  of  them  had  cows,  and 
when  he  was  only  four  years  old,  Sheee-ja  helped 
take  the  cows  out  on  the  plain  to  look  for  grass  and 
water. 

Sheee-ja’s  little  fathers  all  had  wives  and  chil¬ 
dren  in  their  huts  out  on  the  plain,  so  they  did 
not  pay  much  attention  to  Sheee-ja.  But  one  day 
a  strange  man  came  to  visit  Grandmother.  She 
said  this  was  Sheee-ja’s  littlest  father  because  he 
was  the  youngest  of  all  the  uncles. 

This  little  father  wasn’t  at  all  like  the  others  that 
lived  near  by.  This  one  wore  funny  clothes— not 
just  a  cloth  tied  around  his  waist.  This  one,  they 
said,  knew  how  to  read.  He  had  been  living  with 
some  white  people  and  people  went  to  visit  him 
when  they  got  sick.  And  this  one  was  always 
laughing— not  the  way  the  other  little  fathers 
laughed  when  they  drank  beer.  And  when  Sheee- 
ja  sat  down  on  the  log  beside  him,  he  put  his  arm 
around  Sheee-ja  because  he  loved  him. 

It  had  been  quite  some  time-over  a  year— since 
Littlest  Father’s  visit.  Then  one  day  he  came  again, 
this  time  riding  a  bicycle— a  nice  shiny  one  that 
went  “clickety-click,  clickety-click,”  as  he  rode. 
And  it  had  a  bell  that  went,  “tingily,  tingily,”  when 
he  came  near  the  hut. 

Sheee-ja  ran  to  meet  him,  and  then— and  then— 
zoQQoooGoooop!  he  made  one  dash  for  the  little 
mud  hut.  Into  the  very  darkest  of  all  the  dark 
corners  he  ran.  He  covered  up  his  head  with  his 
cloth,  and  he  shook  and  shook  and  shook  all  over. 
For  as  he  had  looked  at  Littlest  Father  coming  on 
the  shiny  bicycle,  there  behind  him  he  saw  two 
more  bicycles  and  on  those  bicycles  were  two  white 
people,  so  very  white  that  Sheee-ja  thought  maybe 
they  were  people  who  had  died  and  lost  their 


Littlest  Father  called  and  called,  “Sheee-ja, 
Sheee-ja,  come  out!  I  have  brought  my  missionary 
friends  to  visit  you.” 

But  Sheee-ja  just  covered  his  head  tighter  and 
crouched  down  lower  in  the  darkest  corner  of  all. 
Littlest  Father  and  the  two  white  people  sat  down 
on  the  log  outside.  Grandmother  sat  on  a  little 
stool  near  by.  They  didn’t  try  to  call  Sheee-ja  any 
more.  They  had  come  to  visit  with  Grandmother. 
Sheee-ja  could  hear  their  voices,  but  because  his 
head  was  covered  so  tightly,  he  couldn’t  hear  a 
word  they  said.  He  crawled  out  of  his  dark  comer 
just  a  wee  bit,  and  then  a  wee  bit  more. 

Over  near  the  door  there  was  a  little  hole  where 
the  mud  had  fallen  out  of  the  wall.  Very,  very 
quietly  Sheee-ja  crept  nearer  and  nearer  the  hole 
until  his  bright  black  eye  could  look  til  rough.  There 
they  were— as  dreadful  looking  as  when  he  first 
saw  them.  He  began  to  shake  all  over  again.  But 
he  wanted  to  hear  what  they  were  saying,  so  he 
didn’t  run  back  to  his  dark  corner  again.  He  just 
stayed  there  by  the  hole  in  the  wall  and  shook 
and  shook  and  listened. 

Littlest  Father  was  telling  Grandmother  about 
the  place  where  he  lived  near  these  white  people. 
He  was  telling  her  about  his  work  of  helping 
the  sick  people  get  well.  And  then  he  was  telling 
her,  and  the  white  people  were  telling  her,  too, 
about  Yesu  who  made  their  hearts  laugh  and  sing, 
because  He  was  not  like  the  spirits  they  worshiped 
out  on  the  plain,  the  spirits  who  made  them  afraid. 

This  Yesu  was  good.  Not  only  was  He  much 
stronger  than  all  the  bad  spirits  out  on  the  plain, 
but  He  could  take  the  badness  out  of  the  hearts 
of  all  the  little  fathers  on  the  plain.  (“They  ought 
to  know  about  that,”  thought  Sheee-ja.)  And  out 
of  Grandmother’s  heart,  too.  (“But  Grandmother 
is  good,”  objected  Sheee-ja  under  his  breath. )  And 
out  of  everyone,  and  make  them  good  because  He 
is  good. 

Grandmother  had  heard  these  things  before;  but 
Grandmother  was  old.  She  couldn’t  learn  new 
things  now.  She  couldn’t  understand  about  Yesu, 
the  Son  of  God,  they  called  Him.  Always  she  had 
worshiped  the  bad  spirits  out  on  the  plain,  and 
now  she  was  too  old,  too-oo  old,  too-oo-oo  old  to 
learn  about  a  new  Spirit.  That  was  only  for  young 


men  like  Littlest  Father.  Littlest  Father  told  her 
that  Yesu  loved  old  grandmothers,  too,  but  Grand¬ 
mother  just  shook  her  head  and  said, 

“No,  no,  I  am  too  old.  I  cannot  understand.”  But 
then  she  said,  “Tell  Sheee-ja  about  Yesu;  he  is 
young,  and  he  can  understand.” 

But  Sheee-ja  kept  very  quiet  behind  the  hole 
in  the  wall.  No  matter  how  much  they  called,  be¬ 
cause  they  wanted  to  tell  him  about  Yesu,  he 
wouldn't  come  out.  Finally  they  got  on  their 
bicycles  again  and  rode  away,  just  as  the  sun  was 
falling  down  behind  the  hills. 

They  thought  they  had  told  only  old  Grand¬ 
mother  about  Yesu,  but  Sheee-ja  had  heard  every 
word.  And  if  Grandmother  didn’t  want  this  new 
Spirit,  well,  Sheee-ja  didn’t  want  to  know  about 
Him  either,  because  he  loved  Grandmother  and  he 
wanted  always  to  do  just  as  Grandmother  did.  But 
he  had  heard  the  name  of  Yesu,  and  that’s  a  name 
you  just  can’t  forget.  He  would  always  remember 
anyway  that  Yesu  was  the  One  that  Littlest  Father 
knew  about  who  made  Littlest  Father’s  heart 


SEND  FOR  THE  BOOK 

and  finish  the  story.  Sheee- 
ja  was  a  real  little  black 
boy  who  actually  lived  on 
the  African  plain.  Only  he 
didn’t  stay  on  the  plain 
until  he  grew  up.  Fie  went 
to  live  with  Littlest  Father 
and  learned  to  read.  Best 
of  all,  he  learned  more 
about  Yesu  and  how  Yesu 
could  make  his  heart  laugh 
and  sing  just  like  Littlest  Father’s.  You  can  read 
all  about  it,  written  in  the  same  charming  junior 
style,  in  “Sheee-ja”  by  Lucilda  A.  Newton.  Order 
your  copy  from  your  nearest  Christian  bookstore 
or  from  Africa  Inland  Mission  Headquarters.  Paper. 
Illustrated.  50  cents.  Copyright  by  Africa  Inland 
Mission,  Inc. 


laugh  and  sing. 


MAY  4  1954 


"pieieU  met  Station. 


EAST  AND  CENTRAL  AFRICA 

The  territory  occupied  by  the  mission  covers  an  area 
of  about  300,000  square  miles. 
HEADQUARTERS 

375  Carlton  Avenue,  Brooklyn  38,  New  York 

CANADIAN  OFFICE 

746  Pape  Avenue,  Toronto  6,  Canada 

Over  450  workers  in  six  fields  in  East  and  Central  Africa. 
Information  and  Literature  sent  upon  request. 
Deputation  speakers  available. 


THE  WORK  BEGUN 


On  a  pioneer  station  in  West  Africa  in  1892,  a 
young  missionary  had  a  place  of  prayer.  A 
well-worn  bush  path  led  to  the  giant  tree 
under  which  Peter  Cameron  Scott  was  wont  to  read 
die  Word  of  God  and  pour  out  his  soul  for  unsaved 
multitudes.  In  that  sacred  trysting  place,  the  Lord 
of  harvest  directed  his  vision  to  the  interior  of  the 
vast  continent  at  a  time  when  missions  were  touch¬ 
ing  only  its  coastal  fringes  —  and  the  Africa  Inland 
Mission  was  bom  in  the  young  man  s  heart. 

Before  the  close  of  that  year,  Peter  Scott  was 
carried  out  of  his  station  on  a  stretcher  to  take  ship 
for  home,  his  body  wasted  by  tropical  fever.  It 
looked  as  though  the  vision  had  been  given  in  vain. 
But  in  Philadelphia,  as  his  strength  came  slowly 
back,  he  waited  on  God  for  guidance  to  carry  out 
His  will.  A  group  of  godly  men,  banded  togedier 
for  the  propagation  of  die  gospel  in  neglected  fields, 
was  willing  to  sponsor  Scott's  outgoing  and  to  care 
for  the  interests  of  the  infant  work  at  home. 


The  work  has  spread  from  Kenya  to  five  other 
portions  of  Africa :  to  Tanganyika  in  1909,  Belgian 
Congo  in  1912,  Uganda  in  1918,  French  Equatorial 
Africa  in  1924,  and  Anglo-Egyptian  Sudan  in  1949. 


THE  NATIVE  CHURCH 


The  throbbing  of  the  chinch  drum  breaks  the 
stillness  of  the  Lord’s  day  mom  on  many  an  African 
plain  and  deep  in  the  tropical  forest.  It  calls  the 
Christians  to  their  united  worship  in  countless  vil¬ 
lages  where,  only  a  few  short  years  ago,  the  name 
of  Christ  never  had  been  heard. 

The  shepherds  of  most  of  these  little  flocks  are 
not  missionaries.  They  are  African  men  who  have 
given  themselves  to  die  work  of  evangelists.  Such 
men  are  trained  in  one  of  the  Mission's  Bible 
schools,  located  at  strategic  centers  throughout  the 


field,  and  in  many  instances  have  been  supported 
there  by  their  own  local  church. 

THE  PRINTED  PAGE 

Much  painstaking  research  lies  behind  the  pub¬ 
lication  of  the  Scriptures  in  any  African  tongue,  yet 
no  labor  is  too  great  to  place  this  spiritual  food 
within  reach  of  every  believer.  Each  advance  into 
new  territory  has  meant  the  learning  and  reducing 
to  writing  of  a  new  unwritten  language.  Scripture 
portions,  hymns,  primers,  tracts,  textbooks  for  the 
schools  have  been  translated.  Native  workers  have 
been  trained  to  set  type  and  are  busy  under  mis¬ 
sionary  supervision  turning  out  literature  on  the 
Mission’s  printing  presses. 

THE  GOSPEL  PROCLAIMED 

Evangelism  is  the  keynote  of  any  missionary 
work  that  counts  for  eternity.  Every  activity  on  the 
field  should  be  either  a  means  to  that  end  or  an 
outgrowth  of  its  accomplishment. 

THE  BODY  MENDED 

Even  as  the  Lord  in  His  earthly  ministry  had 
compassion  on  the  sick,  so,  where  the  gospel  is 
preached,  there  is  a  concern  for  the  physical  needs 
of  men.  In  heathenism  the  African  believes  that  his 
sickness  is  inflicted  by  evil  spirits  who  have  been 
antagonized  by  some  neglect  of  his  or  through  the 
curse  of  his  enemies.  Therefore  he  calls  in  the 
witch-doctor  to  perform  rites  to  appease  the  spirits. 
The  native  Christian  calls  upon  missionary  doctors 
or  nurses  and  the  native  assistants  they  have 
trained,  who  prayerfully  administer  scientific 
remedies. 

The  medical  work  is  a  means  of  contact  with 
many  who  would  not  otherwise  hear  the  gospel, 
including  Government  officials  and  European 
settlers. 


THE  MIND  TRAINED 

Missionaries  have  had  to  be  the  pioneer  educa¬ 
tors  in  Africa,  and  in  the  early  days  of  the  work 
there  were  no  schools,  but  mission  schools.  Even 
though  in  later  years  Government  schools  have  met 
part  of  the  educational  needs  of  the  various  col¬ 
onies,  the  spiritual  welfare  of  Christian  young  peo¬ 
ple  in  such  schools  is  a  matter  of  grave  concern.  In 
the  A.I.M.  sphere,  the  native  evangelists  are  trained 
to  teach  as  well  as  preach,  and  where  there  is  a 
church  there  is  usually  some  kind  of  a  school.  Here 
new  converts  learn  to  read  the  Word  of  God,  and 
here  boys  and  girls  of  the  village  come  to  be  taught. 

THE  WOMEN  TRANSFORMED 

Girls’  homes  have  played  an  important  part  in 
die  development  of  Christian  womanhood.  In  the 
early  days  of  the  work,  young  men  were  saved. 
They  must  not  be  unequally  yoked  with  unbeliev¬ 
ers,  but  where  was  a  man  to  find  a  Christian  wife? 
Some  would  jpay  a  girl's  dowry  and  bring  her  to  the 
missionaries  to  be  taught  the  words  of  God”  before 
the  marriage.  Heathen  girls,  dreading  cruel  initia¬ 
tion  rites  by  which  they  must  enter  womanhood  in 
some  tribes,  or  fearing  the  husbands  to  whom  they 
were  sold,  would  run  for  refuge  to  the  mission  sta¬ 
tions.  Thus  girls’  work  was  begun. 

THE  CHALLENGE 

God’s  call  to  Peter  Cameron  Scott  was  to  carry 
die  gospel  to  the  great  neglected  interior  of  Africa. 
Thus,  his  successors  have  endeavored  not  to  build 
on  other  men’s  foundations.  Some  efforts  to  advance 
have  been  retarded,  but  new  areas  have  been 
entered,  new  stations  opened,  and  even  now  prep¬ 
arations  are  being  made  to  possess  the  land  as  yet 
unreached.  The  outlook  for  the  days  ahead  indi¬ 
cates  an  open  door  as  well  as  possible  restrictions  in 
the  propagation  of  the  gospel. 


'ptelcU  and  Station*. 


OUR  FIELD  OF  LABOR  IN  EAST 
AND  CENTRAL  AFRICA 

The  territory  occupied  by  the  mission  covers  an  area 
of  about  300,000  square  miles. 

HEADQUARTERS 

375  Carlton  Avenue,  Brooklyn  5,  N.  Y. 

CANADIAN  OFFICE 

1  Glencrest  Boulevard,  Toronto  13,  Ontario 


HOWARD  W.  FERRIN,  LL.D.,  Pres.  RALPH  T.  DAVIS,  D.D.,  Gen.  Sec. 

pP'NTlTo 


Africa  Inland  Mission 

375  Carlton  Ave.,  Brooklyn  5,  N.  Y 

BEGINNING 

This  nondenominational  work  began  in 
1895,  when  the  first  outgoing  party  com¬ 
posed  of  eight  missionaries — five  men  and 
three  women — landed  in  Kenya  Colony. 
The  founder  of  the  Mission,  and  the  leader 
of  this  party,  was  Peter  Cameron  Scott  of 
Philadelphia. 

DEVELOPMENT 

The  work  has  spread  from  Kenya  to  five 
other  portions  of  Africa:  to  Tanganyika  in 
1909,  Belgian  Congo  in  1912,  Uganda  in 
1918,  French  Equatorial  Africa  in  1924,  and 
Anglo-Egyptian  Sudan  in  1949.  Now,  as  of 
May  15,  1951,  there  are  385  mission¬ 

aries — 326  from  America  and  59  from 
Britain.  There  are,  in  all,  60  main  mission 
stations — 21  in  Kenya,  12  in  Tanganyika,  20 
in  Congo,  2  in  Uganda,  3  in  French  Equator¬ 
ial  Africa,  and  2  in  Anglo-Egyptian  Sudan.  In 
addition,  there  are  some  1,800  or  more  out- 
stations,  manned  by  about  3,000  native 
workers. 

OBJECTIVE 

The  purpose  of  the  Mission  is  to  take  the 
gospel  of  a  crucified  and  risen  Saviour,  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  to  those  in  the  area  of 
Africa  where  we  labor,  to  the  end  that  those 
who  receive  Him  may  first  be  saved  from 
their  sins  and  then  grow  spiritually  in  Him. 


sirs  WILL  FIB  BE 

By  Austin  Paul 

Missionary  to  the  Belgian  Congo 

GOD  HAS  A  PLAN  FOR  HIS  WORLD 
IN  THIS  HOUR. 

“Known  unto  God  are  all  his  works  from  the 
beginning  of  the  world.”  He  knows  the  course  of  the 
nations.  He  knows  the  hour  of  the  Lord  Jesus*  re¬ 
turn.  He  knows  the  end  of  all  things.  Ever  since  He 


gave  our  Lord  Jesus  to  die  on  Calvary  and  then  raised 
Him  from  the  dead  and  received  Him  into  the  heav¬ 
ens,  He  has  been  waiting  for  His  church  to  preach 
the  gospel  to  every  creature.  Missions  are  in  the 
heart  throb  of  God.  He  is  not  willing  that  any 
should  perish,  and  He  does  desire  that  all  men  every¬ 
where  should  come  to  repentance.  God’s  plan  for 
the  church  in  this  hour  is  to  complete  speedily  the 
work  of  heralding  the  gospel  of  the  death  and  resur¬ 
rection  of  our  Lord  Jesus  to  the  ends  of  the  earth, 
that  men  might  be  saved  by  receiving  Him  as  their 
Saviour  (John  1:12). 

GOD  HAS  A  PLAN  FOR  EACH 
BORN-AGAIN  BELIEVER. 

Salvation  is  a  free  gift  of  God.  It  is  ours  wholly 
on  the  merits  of  what  our  Lord  Jesus  did  for  us  at 
Calvary.  We  are  not  saved  by  good  works,  but 
Ephesians  2:8-10  tells  us  definitely  that  we  are 
saved  “unto  good  works,  which  God  hath  before  or¬ 
dained  that  we  should  walk  in  them.”  Many  Chris¬ 
tians  fail  to  realize  this  and  fail  to  seek  from  God 
a  knowledge  of  His  definite  place  for  their  lives. 

GOD  WANTS  TO  REVEAL  HIS  WILL. 

Our  Heavenly  Father  is  not  One  who  is  “afar 
off,”  austere,  and  distant  but  in  His  Word  He  be¬ 
seeches  us  to  present  our  bodies  to  Him  “a  living 
sacrifice,  holy,  acceptable  unto  God,”  as  a  “reason¬ 
able  service,”  not  conforming  ourselves  to  this  world, 
but  as  our  minds  are  made  new  by  giving  ourselves 
to  God,  we  will  “prove  what  is  that  good,  and  accept¬ 
able,  and  perfect,  will  of  God”  (Rom.  12:1,2).  God 
expects  us  to  seek  from  Him  a  clear  knowledge  of 
His  will,  and  He  will  answer  our  cry  and  reveal  it 
to  us. 


GOD  EXPECTS  OBEDIENCE  WHEN 
WE  DO  KNOW  HIS  WILL. 

He  does  not  desire  us  to  come  unless  we  honestly 
purpose  to  follow  where  He  may  lead  us.  The  Scrip¬ 
tures  abound  with  illustrations  on  these  lines,  and 
special  warning  is  given  concerning  “that  servant, 
which  knew  His  Lord’s  will,  and  prepared  not  him¬ 
self”  to  do  it. 


The  Will  of  God 

Excerpts  from  the  writings 
of 

George  Mueller  of  Bristol 

How  important  it  is  to  ascertain  the  will  of  God 
before  we  undertake  anything,  because  we  are  then 
not  only  blessed  in  our  own  souls,  but  also  the  work 
of  our  hands  will  prosper! 

FIRST.  Be  slow  to  take  new  steps  in  the  Lord’s 
service,  or  in  your  business,  or  in  your  families. 
Weigh  everything  well.  Weigh  all  in  the  light  of  the 
Holy  Scriptures  and  in  the  fear  of  God. 

SECOND.  Seek  to  have  no  will  of  your  own  in 
order  to  ascertain  the  mind  of  God  regarding  any 
steps  you  propose  to  take,  so  that  you  can  honestly 
say  you  are  willing  to  do  the  will  of  God,  if  He  will 
only  please  to  instruct  you. 

THIRD.  But  when  you  have  found  out  what  the 
will  of  God  is,  seek  for  His  help,  seek  it  earnestly, 
and  expectantly,  and  you  will  surely  in  His  own  time 
and  way  obtain  it. 

To  ascertain  the  Lord’s  will  we  ought  to  use  Scrip¬ 
tural  means.  Prayer,  the  Word  of  God,  and  His  Spirit 
should  be  united  together.  We  should  come  to  the 
Lord  repeatedly  in  prayer  and  ask  Him  to  teach 


us  by  His  Spirit  through  His  word.  ...  No  situation, 
no  business  will  be  given  me  by  God  in  which  I  have 
not  time  enough  to  care  about  my  soul.  Therefore, 
however  outward  circumstances  may  appear,  they  can 
only  be  considered  as  permitted  by  God  to  prove  the 
genuineness  of  my  love,  faith,  and  obedience,  but  by 
no  means  as  the  leading  of  His  providence  to  induce 
me  to  act  contrary  to  His  revealed  will. 


AFRICA  INLAND  MISSION 

Founded  in  1895  by  Peter  Cameron  Scott 
HEADQUARTERS 

375  Carlton  Avenue,  Brooklyn  5,  New  York 

CANADIAN  OFFICE 

746  Pape  Avenue,  Toronto  6,  Ontario 

Over  400  workers  in  six  fields  in  East  and  Central  Africa. 
Information  and  Literature  sent  upon  request. 
Deputation  speakers  available. 

Deputation  Secretaries 

REV.  WILLIAM  S.  PONTIER  REV.  AUSTIN  PAUL 

REV.  GEORGE  W.  WEPPLER 

Member  of  the  I.F.M.A. 


**!?*• 


A 

Translator’s 

Day 


OU  will  be  glad  to  hear  that  the  Old  Testament 
manuscript  in  Bangala  left  Aha  July  17,  1951 
enroute  to  Juba,  going  by  plane  from  there  three 
days  later.  We  have  since  had  word  from  the  Bible 
Society  that  it  arrived  there  safely.  Now  do  pray 
that  it  may  be  accepted  for  publication  and  that  they 
may  be  able  to  do  it  without  too  much  delay.  Our 
people  are  so  eager  for  it  that  they  seem  to  think 
it  ought  to  be  ready  in  a  month  or  so.  Mr.  Brashler 
has  been  reading  it  to  the  students  at  the  Pastors* 
School  and  they  are  all  so  thrilled  at  the  prospect 
of  having  a  copy  for  themselves  some  day.  A  group 
of  them  called  on  me  during  last  vacation.  They 
said  their  necks  had  dried  up  while  hearing  Mr. 
Brashler  read  it.  Can  you  guess  what  an  expression 
like  that  might  mean?  It  is  an  idiom  to  show  rapt 
attention — one  listens  with  outstretched  neck  so  long 
that  it  gets  stiff!  I  wonder  how  many  of  you  listen 
to  the  reading  of  the  Word  with  such  interest?  Fin¬ 
ally  one  of  them  said,  “Well,  praise  God  that  it  is 
finished  and  has  been  written  on  paper.  Even  if  the 
Bible  society  won’t  do  it  quickly,  a  copy  can  be 
circulated  among  the  churches  just  as  they  did  in 
times  past  with  the  letters  of  Paul.”  One  of  the 
pastors  was  Samwele  Wapol  who  had  helped  Miss 
Halstead  translate  the  Bible  into  Alur.  He  knew 
by  experience  all  the  work  involved  in  a  task  like 
that. 

My  poor  old  brain  has  been  drained  dry — I  feel  there 
is  nothing  left  of  it  but  sawdust.  I  trust  we  had  the 
required  23,214  verses  but  none  of  us  have  had  the 
time  or  ambition  to  count  the  number  of  words.  The 
words  ranged  in  length  from  “0”  to  “basirapeti- 
manisi”,  with  proper  names  from  Ai  to  Telegata- 
pilinesere.  The  letter  “K”  and  the  word  “na”  were 
most  often  used.  We  used  about  8  reams  of  bond 
paper  and  about  10  packets  of  1000  sheets  each  of 
second  sheets,  about  4%  boxes  of  carbon  paper  and 
steen  typewriter  ribbons.  The  typewriter — an  aged 
Royal  portable — stood  the  strain  until  a  few  weeks 
before  the  end  when  you  forgot  to  pray  for  it.  All 
the  other  newer  models  available  had  the  wrong 


sized  type  and  either  skipped  spaces  or  piled  up 
letters  or  did  something  else  wrong.  Each  verse 
was  read  over  at  least  nine  times  and  written  four 
or  more  times.  Kanda  just  about  knows  it  by  heart. 
He  has  had  all  the  old  copies  and  has  pored  over 
them  through  the  years.  Now  that  there  is  such  a 
hunger  for  it,  he  sometimes  reads  all  Sunday  after¬ 
noon  to  a  group  who  gather  at  his  home.  He  says 
his  copies  have  been  of  use  where  mine  have  just 
laid  idle. 

The  boys  were  so  interested  to  find  that  every  little 
thing  that  one  could  think  of  was  to  be  found  in  the 
Bible.  If  there  had  only  been  time  to  jot  down 
everything  they  had  to  say  about  things  as  we  came 
across  them,  it  would  have  made  a  book  by  itself, 
one  which  you  would  have  thoroughly  enjoyed,  I 
am  sure.  We  had  many  a  merry  laugh  I  can  assure 
you.  One  day  we  would  cross  out  a  word  and  write 
a  new  one  in  its  place;  the  next  time  we  would  cross 
out  the  new  one  and  put  the  old  one  back  again.  I 
fully  appreciate  the  story  of  the  writer  who  said  he  had 
had  a  very  busy  day.  When  asked  what  he  had  done, 
he  said  he  had  put  a  comma  in  his  article  during  the 
morning,  and  had  taken  it  out  during  the  afternoon. 

One  day  we  were  reading  over  the  account  of  Jere¬ 
miah  sinking  in  the  mud.  Kanda  said,  ‘“But  Jere¬ 
miah  didn’t  die?”  I  said,  “Why  of  course  he  didn’t 
die— not  that  day  anyway.”  “Well,  the  word  we 
have  used  here  says  that  he  goes  under  the  mud.  No 
man  could  hreathe  under  mud  so  everyone  would 
surely  take  it  that  he  died.”  We  had  to  get  that  poor 
prophet  out  from  under  the  mud  in  a  hurry,  and  get 
him  going  in  the  mud  in  a  way  that  he  could  still 
breathe. 

Well,  so  much  for  our  Bible.  I  have  written  at  length 
about  it  as  I  know  you  are  all  very  much  interested 
in  it.  Our  grateful  thanks  to  the  many  who  have 
remembered  us  daily  in  believing  prayer.  Satan  tried 
in  every  way  to  stop  or  at  least  hinder  the  work  but 
the  Lord  overruled  every  time. 

(A  letter  from  Miss  Mabel  A.  Gingrich) 


"pieldA  eutd  Stations 


AFRICA  INLAND  MISSION 

Founded  in  1895  by  Peter  Cameron  Scott 
HEADQUARTERS 

375  Carlton  Avenue,  Brooklyn  5,  New  York 
CANADIAN  OFFICE 

746  Pape  Avenue,  Toronto  6,  Ontario 

Over  400  workers  in  six  fields  in  East  and  Central  Arica. 
information  and  Literature  sent  upon  request. 
Deputation  speakers  available. 

Deputation  Secretaries 

REV.  WILLIAM  S.  PONTIER  REV.  AUSTIN  PAUL 

REV.  GEORGE  W.  WEPPLER 


IN 

U.5.A- 


•  "Behold,  a  sower  went  forth  to  sow; 
And  when  he  sowed,  some  seeds  fell  by 
the  way  side,  and  t'n©  fowls  came  and 
devoured  them  up:  Some  fell  upon  stony 
places,  where  they  had  not  much  earth: 
and  forthwith  they  sprung  up,  because 
they  had  no  deepness  of  earth:  And  when 
the  sun  was  up,  they  were  scorched;  and 
because  they  had  no  root,  they  withered 
away.  And  some  fell  among  thorns;  and 
the  thorns  sprung  up  and  choked  them: 
but  other  fell  into  good  ground,  and 
brought  forth  fruit." 


Matthew  13:3-8. 


“PiVMijUe  ag  t&e  Soifo 


By  Carl  K.  Becker,  M.  D. 


O  fellow  Christians,  greetings  in  our  Lord:  to 


pastors  and  elders,  and  deacons;  to  Sunday- 
school  teachers  and  Christian  workers;  to  all  to 
whom,  with  us,  is  given  to  witness  for  our  Lord. 

We  are'  continually  hearing  and  reading  v/ords 
which  impress  us  with  the  urgency  of  the  times  in 
which  we  live.  These  times  are  being  described  to  us 
as  times  of  “supreme  crisis,”  as  being  “later  than  we 
think,”  as  finding  “civilization  in  the  balance.”  We 
hear  and  read  appeals  for  spiritual  or  moral  thinking 
and  speaking  from  philosophers,  from  scientists,  or 
the  politically  great  as  well  as  from  spiritual  leaders. 
And  in  our  hearts  we  know  that  in  the  message  of 
reconciliation  to  God  committed  to  us  lies  the  an¬ 
swer  and  the  only  answer,  to  these  needs  of  the 
times. 

We  respond  with  renewed  determination  to  be  in¬ 
stant  in  season  and  out  of  season  with  our  witness 
to  this  message  and  to  our  Saviour.  And  we  are 
met,  along  with  some  response,  by  a  mass  of  blank 
indifference,  people  apparently  completely  preoccu¬ 
pied  with  material  things,  or  even  many  openly  hostile 
to  our  words  and  to  ourselves. 

It  is  not  strange  that  our  souls  often  wind  up  in  a 
baffling  sense  of  frustration,  frustration  deadening 
to  our  own  souls  and  fruitless  to  our  Lord.  In  just 
such  circumstances  the  thoughts  which  follow  have 


1 


instructed,  heartened,  and  challenged  some  of  us. 
The  illustrations  are  African,  for  the  discipline  came 
in  the  Lord’s  work  in  Africa.  The  principles  are 
universal.  So  these  words  are  being  written  with  the 
hope  and  prayer  that  others  may  be  comforted,  en¬ 
couraged,  and  challenged  with  the  comfort,  encour¬ 
agement,  and  challenge  which  the  Lord  has  given  us. 

“Give  ye  ear,  and  hear  my  voice,”  said  the  prophet 
Isaiah,  “hearken,  and  hear  my  speech.  Doth  the 
plowman  plow  all  day  to  sow?  doth  he  open  and 
break  the  clods  of  his  ground?  When  he  hath  made 
plain  the  face  thereof,  doth  he  not  .  .  .  cast  in  the 
principal  wheat  and  the  appointed  barley  and  the 
rie  in  their  place?  For  his  God  doth  instruct  him 
to  discretion,  and  doth  teach  him”  (Isa.  28:23-26). 

Our  Lord  spoke  of  the  spread  of  His  Word  under 
the  figure  of  seed  sowing.  Missionary  work,  and 
all  other  Christian  work,  is  seed  sowing.  But  it  is 
not  only  seed  sowing.  It  is  also  reaping.  But  it  is  by 
no  means  only  reaping.  It  is  also  plowing,  tilling, 
picking  out  stones,  that  is  to  say,  preparing  the  soil. 
It  is  sweaty,  back-breaking,  not  always  immediately 
fruitful  work;  and  the  Christian  worker  prays  often 
that  his  God  may  instruct  him  to  discretion  and 
teach  him  in  this  labor,  too. 

No  intelligent  husbandman  would  sow  his  seed  de¬ 
liberately  on  ground  trodden  hard  without  first  break¬ 
ing  up  the  ground.  Nor  would  he  sow  among  rocks 
without  first  trying  to  get  out  as  many  of  the  rocks 
as  possible.  And  what  kind  of  a  crop  would  the 
man  expect,  even  if  he  did  look  to  God  to  grant  the 
increase,  if  he  did  not  bother  to  cultivate  out  the 
thorns  from  the  growing  grain?  Indeed,  the  actual 
sowing  and  reaping  may  be  the  least  strenuous  parts 
of  the  whole  task. 


2 


It  is  because  these  things  are  so  that  we  need  to 
be  instructed  unto  discretion.  It  is  often  easier 
simply  to  preach  the  Word  and  to  blame  any  paucity 
of  results  on  the  poor  soil  of  hardened  hearts,  when 
all  the  while  we  might  have  been  doing  much  to 
break  up  the  ground  and  soften  the  hearts  to  re¬ 
ceive  the  "Word.  In  the  same  way  it  is  too  simple, 
when  we  see  people  making  ready  professions  but 
falling  away  quickly  when  persecution  and  trouble 
turn  up,  merely  to  blame  it  all  on  their  shallow  selves. 
There  is  often  much  that  might  have  been  done  to 
get  the  stones  out  and  prepare  the  hearts.  Nor  are 
we  justified  in  lamenting  about  the  fruitlessness  of 
some  churches  or  Christians  until  we  have  done 
everything  in  our  power  to  root  out  the  cares  of  this 
world  and  the  deceitfulness  of  riches  which  are 
choking  out  fruitfulness. 

The  husbandman  toils  in  hope  of  the  harvest, 
Without  seed  sowing  there  is  no  harvest.  Even  with 
it,  it  is  God  who  gives  the  increase.  But  if  there  is 
little  or  no  plowing  and  tilling,  the  harvest  is  likely 
to  be  in  proportion.  So  God  ordained  from  the  be¬ 
ginning  of  creation  in  the  physical  world,  and  so  He 
has  ordained  in  the  spiritual  world. 


BUEASONG  yp  THi  WAYSIDE  SOIL 

“The  sluggard  will  not  plow,”  (Prov.  20:4).  In 
every  part  of  the  world,  wayside  land  in  the  form  of 
hard,  indifferent,  unresponsive  hearts  is  not  hard 
to  find.  What  can  we  do  to  break  up  this  condition? 
The  Lord  describes  such  people  as  those  who  hear 
the  gospel  and  do  not  understand  it.  Lack  of  under¬ 
standing  may  be  due  either  to  lack  of  attention  or 
to  lack  of  proper  instruction.  These  hardened,  in- 


3 


different,  uncomprehending  ones  must  be  made  to 
understand. 

The  primitive  African  has  two  means  for  breaking 
up  hard  ground,  his  hoe  and  his  own  efforts.  The 
Christian  worker  likewise  has  two  means,  the  Word 
and  his  own  life. 

Let  us  think  first  of  the  lack  of  understanding  due 
to  lack  of  attention.  To  attract  or  hold  attention, 
the  Word  must  be  understandable.  For  the  mission¬ 
ary  that  means  learning  the  language  of  the  people, 
not  only  from  a  grammar  or  dictionary,  but  from 
the  idioms  of  every-day  experience  that  come  only 
from  mingling  with  the  people,  learning  their  cus¬ 
toms,  entering  sympathetically  into  their  joys  and 
sorrows  and  problems.  But  even  the  good  hoe  of  an 
understandable  Word  must  be  handled  with  skill 
and  energy.  Meetings  in  the  villages,  personal  visit¬ 
ing  and  witness,  music,  public  address  systems — these 
are  activities  which  demand  the  attention  of  others. 

Lack  of  understanding  may  be  due  also  to  lack  of 
proper  instruction.  To  say  that  the  gospel  has  been 
preached  in  this  or  that  place  once  or  twice  or  even 
three  times  by  no  means  implies  that  the  message 
has  been  given  so  that  the  hearts  really  could  re¬ 
spond.  The  ground  may  be  merely  scratched. 

It  may  be  easy  to  forget  also  that  the  Word  must 
be  wielded  by  the  life.  To  understand  the  real 
meaning  of  the  word  we  use  for  “love,”  these  souls 
must  see  real  love  in  action.  To  understand  the 
sordidness  and  blackness  of  “sin,”  they  must  see 
lives  far  purer  and  whiter  than  their  own.  To  under¬ 
stand  that  “Christ  is  risen  indeed,”  they  need  to  see 
creatures  like  themselves  depending  on  and  commun¬ 
ing  with  Him.  This  kind  of  plowing  and  hoeing  is 
hard,  sweaty  work.  It  may  be  slighted.  But  it  car¬ 
ries  promise  and  is  done  in  hope. 


4 


The  Case  of  the  Pygmy  Clown 

For  many  year9  a  tiny  old  Pygmy  frequently  vis¬ 
ited  our  mission  station.  He  looked  like  a  dwarf 
who  had  hopped  out  of  the  pages  of  a  story  book. 
His  appearance  at  the  window  or  door  was  always 
the  occasion  of  laughter,  for  he  was  a  Pygmy  clown, 
always  doing  and  saying  funny  things  to  make  peo¬ 
ple  laugh.  Tell  him  to  imitate  a  monkey,  or  an  ele¬ 
phant,  a  dog,  or  even  a  white  man,  and  he  was  ready 
with  a  very  clever  impersonation  which  was  recog¬ 
nized  immediately.  All  of  us  had  many  hearty 
laughs  because  of  his  good-natured  desire  to 
please,  and  all  were  ready  to  contribute  a  tasty  bit 
of  food,  some  prized  rock  salt,  a  bit  of  cloth,  or  some 
other  small  gift  to  make  our  weeny  clown  happy. 

We  longed  above  other  things  to  see  this  little  man 
know  the  true  God,  and  as  we  saw  him  grow  older 
and  older  and  grayer  and  grayer,  our  desire  increased 
accordingly.  But  it  seemed  as  though  no  serious 
word  or  thought  would  enter  that  heart.  If  we  said 
to  him,  “God  bless  you,”  or,  “Christ  died  for  your 
sins,”  immediately,  like  a  parrot,  he  would  say,  “God 
loves  you,”  or,  “Christ  died  for  your  sins” — until  v/e 
almost  despaired.  Some  of  our  native  Christians 
tried  to  help  him  by  praying  with  and  teaching  him, 
but  all  seemed  to  feel  as  we  did,  that  nothing  that  was 
serious  entered  inside  that  mind  and  heart  that  were 
so  filled  with  foolishness. 

One  day  a  missionary  came  to  visit  us  who  spoke 
Kibila,  a  language  Bingula  the  Pygmy  knew  best. 
We  asked  him  to  teach  Bingula.  The  two  sat  under 
a  tree  talking  together  for  about  an  hour.  This  mis¬ 
sionary  said  afterward  that  he  thought  Bingula  un¬ 
derstood,  but  wether  he  really  believed  on  Jesus  as 
his  saviour,  he  did  not  know. 


5 


Months  later  we  heard  that  Bingula  was  very  ill 
and  had  been  taken  to  the  hospital  suffering  with 
pneumonia.  He  was  put  in  a  relatively  comfortable 
bed,  tucked  between  two  warm  blankets,  a  great 
luxury  for  him,  and  given  every  care  possible.  The 
sulfa  drugs  worked  like  a  charm.  In  a  few  days  he 
was  begging  the  doctor  to  permit  him  to  return  to 
his  little  leaf  hut  to  ota  moto.  Now,  to  ota  moto 
is  to  warm  oneself  by  the  fire.  That,  at  home, 
though  the  fire  be  smoky  and  the  house  a  mere  leaf 
hut,  was  a  luxury  with  which  even  two  warm  blank¬ 
ets  could  not  compare.  So  Bingula  was  discharged 
from  the  hospital  and  allowed  to  go  home  where  he 
could  sit  by  his  own  little  fire. 

But  Bingula  was  getting  near  the  end  of  his  life 
span.  It  was  not  long  before  we  heard  that  he  was 
failing  in  strength.  We  sent  teachers  daily  to  bring 
him  the  Word  of  God  and  to  pray  with  him.  Our 
hospital  evangelist  returned  one  day  and  said, 

“I  surely  believe  Bingula  is  trusting  in  our  Lord 
Jesus.  He  says  that  he  is.  I  believe  he  will  not  be 
alive  tomorrow,  be  is  very  weak.” 

The  next  day  two  young  Pygmy  boys  appeared, 
asking, 

“Where  is  the  teacher?  Bingula  has  died.  He  said 
before  he  died,  4My  spirit  is  going  to  God.’  We  want 
the  teacher  to  come  out  to  us  and  help  bury  his  body, 
and  we  want  him  to  preach  to  us  at  the  grave.” 

This  was  the  first  time  that  any  Pygmies  in  our 
section  had  come  with  the  request  for  a  Christian 
burial.  Malona,  the  hospital  evangelist,  hastened  out. 
He  found  the  Pygmies  trying  to  dig  a  grave  with 
twigs  and  branches  from  a  tree.  The  evangelist 
hurried  to  the  nearest  village,  where  he  succeeded  in 
finding  a  shovel.  With  this  he  was  able  to  help  more 


6 


rapidly.  But  he  confided  later  that  the  body  was 
not  buried  very  far  down,  for  the  Pygmies  grew 
weary  of  their  task  very  soon. 

“What  did  you  preach  at  the  grave?”  we  asked, 
wondering  how  simple  he  could  make  such  a  message 
for  those  simplest  of  people. 

“I  took  some  dry  kernels  of  corn  along  to  the 
grave,  for  Pygmies  know  corn,”  he  replied.  “I  asked 
them, 

“  ‘When  you  bury  this  corn  in  the  ground,  what 
happens  to  the  outer  shell?’ 

“  ‘It  decays,’  they  answered. 

“  ‘But  what  happens  to  the  inside  of  the  kernel, 
the  heart  of  the  seed?’ 

“  ‘Oh,  it  doesn’t  die,  it  lives,  and  grows,  and  be¬ 
comes  big  and  good  and  turns  into  many  kernels  of 
corn.’ 

“  ‘And  just  so  Bingula.  His  outside,  his  body,  will 
decay,  but  the  inside,  the  spirit  of  Bingula,  because 
he  believed  in  the  Lord  Jesus,  lives  and  will  con¬ 
tinue  forever.  Bingula  will  have  life  forever,  a  full 
life,  a  liappy  life,  a  bigger  life  in  heaven  for  ever 
and  ever.’  ” 

“All  listened  well,”  the  teacher  said,  “and  all 
seemed  to  understand.” 

We  may  v/ell  trust  and  pray  that  the  homegoing 
of  old  Bingula  may  have  touched  hearts  that  had  not 
understood;  and  it  may  mean  the  beginning  of  faith 
in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  and  the  true  God,  our  heav¬ 
enly  Father,  for  the  Pygmies  of  Bingula's  village  in 
the  forest. 

CLEARING  THE  STONY  GROUND 

“Prepare  ye  the  way  of  the  people  .  .  .  gather  out 
the  stones;  lift  up  a  standard  for  the  people”  (Isa. 
62:10). 


7 


No  intelligent  husbandman  would  sow  among  rocks 
without  first  trying  to  get  out  as  many  of  the  rocks 
as  possible.  It  is  far  too  simple  a  matter,  when  we 
see  people  making  ready  professions  but  falling 
away  quickly  under  persecution  which  may  be  di¬ 
rected  against  them  or  trouble  which  befalls  them, 
to  blame  the  results  on  the  shallowness  of  the  per¬ 
sons  thus  overcome. 

What  makes  shallow,  unstable  converts?  Whence 
the  material  difference  between  the  number  of  pro¬ 
fessions  and  of  those  who  continue  in  fellowship 
with  the  Lord’s  people?  Is  it  simply  the  nature  of 
these  persons?  That  some  human  beings  appear  to 
be  of  such  a  nature  is  not  questioned.  That  many 
necessarily  are  so  is  open  to  much  question.  In¬ 
deed,  that  would  make  large  portions  of  God’s  Word 
quite  pointless.  And  who,  faced  with  an  individual, 
can  say,  even  to  himself,  “You  are  a  shallow,  un¬ 
stable  soul?” 

But  there  does  seem  to  be  much  stony  ground  in 
this  world.  There  do  appear  to  be  many  who  en¬ 
dure  for  a  while — and  often  such  a  little  while. 
Here  truly  is  one  of  the  big  heartbreaks  in  the 
Lord’s  work.  If  there  is  something  we  can,  in  our 
Lord,  do  about  this,  what  are  these  stones,  and  how 
can  we  go  about  getting  rid  of  them? 

Our  Lord’s  own  words  in  the  parable  are  very 
suggestive:  “Immediately  it  sprang  up”  (Mk.  4:5)  ; 
“anon  with  joy  received  it”  (Matt.  13:20)  ;  and, 
“for  a  while  believe”  (Lk.  8:13).  Too  ready  profes¬ 
sions  of  faith  without  the  professors’  really  knowing 
v/hat  is  meant  by  faith  in  our  Lord  must  be  one  kind 
of  stone.  And  professions  made  without  the  pro¬ 
fessors’  realizing  the  nature  of  the  present  life  of  a 
child  of  God  on  earth  is  another  stone. 


8 


Our  verse  in  Isaiah  contains  the  suggestive  phrase, 
“Lift  up  a  standard  for  the  people.”  If  these  are  the 
stones,  that  which  is  needed  is  “a  standard  for  the 
people.”  There  is  a  lot  which  we  can  be  doing  about 
that  both  by  word  and  by  deed.  Come  to  think  about 
it,  they  are  such  things  that  we  easily  think  of  as 
drudgery,  just  like  the  picking  out  of  stones. 

By  word — here  lie  long  weary  hours  in  the  school¬ 
room.  Here  are  meetings,  individual  and  collective, 
when  the  body  is  weary  with  other  work.  Here  are 
village  meetings  for  Bible  teaching,  patiently,  line 
upon  line,  in  season  and  out  of  season,  and  con¬ 
tinued.  It  is  just  because  these  activities  seldom  show 
evident,  immediate  results  that  they  are  so  wearying. 
But  stony  soil  is  not  easily  made  rich  and  deep.  And 
the  Word,  so  used,  is  well  fitted  to  the  purpose.  It 
was  made  for  the  task  by  the  Master  Craftsman. 

By  deed — really  to  make  dear  in  more  than  mere 
words  that  faith  in  our  Lord  means  confidence  in 
Him  in  the  face  of  tribulation  or  persecution  or 
temptation  needs  a  lot  of  living.  It  is  perhaps 
more  hands  and  back  than  hoe.  How  can  that  con¬ 
vert  really  know  that  the  Christian  life  is  not  one 
freed  from  trouble  unless  he  sees  Christians  suffering 
and  triumphing  in  their  suffering?  How  can  he  ac¬ 
tually  realize  that  the  Christian  life  is  not  a  way  of 
gain  unless  he  sees  Christians  happy  in  a  simple 
life,  holding  material  things  lightly? 

In  Africa  there  is  always  a  great  difference  be¬ 
tween  the  material  things  of  the  missionary,  too,  and 
of  the  people.  Constant  spiritual  effort  is  de¬ 
manded  to  keep  any  sort  of  balance  between  the 
needed  or  truly  helpful  and  other  things,  however 
nice  and  desirable  to  us.  How  can  that  convert 
realize  the  joys  and  peace,  yes,  the  necessity  of 


9 


implicit  obedience  to  the  Lord  in  whom  we  have 
placed  our  confidence  unless  he  sees  Christians  tri¬ 
umphing  over  the  temptations  of  every-day  life,  and 
doing  so  consistently? 

These  two  suggestive  and  thought-provoking  com¬ 
ments  came  from  our  Africans: 

Of  a  missionary,  it  was  said,  “But  he  is  always 
smiling  even  when  he  has  much  work  or  many 
troubles!” 

Some  of  the  more  traveled  but  harder,  sophisticated 
class  of  Africans  have  made  this  observation  con¬ 
cerning  our  medical  staff, 
“You  even  get  up  from  a  meal 
or  from  your  beds  at  night  to 
help  us.” 

We  may  do  well  to  remind 
ourselves  of  a  point  here.  It 
is  that  these  soils  do  not  nec¬ 
essarily  represent  classes  into 
which  individuals  can  be 
sorted  and  dropped  like  cards 
in  a  filing  system.  Being  made 
of  the  same  stuff,  every  human 
being  (and  that  includes  you 
and  me)  has  in  his  own  na¬ 
tural  heart  spots  of  hard  way- 
side  or  shallow  stony  soil, 
possibly  not  a  few  weeds  and 


thorns  as  well.  Our  Lord  must  be  distressed  about 
these  spots.  As  part  of  His  completing  the  work  He 
has  begun  in  us,  doubtless  He  is  speaking  to  us  about 
them  by  His  Word  and  by  the  experience  of  our 
lives.  If  we  are  heeding  Him,  then  we  are  much 
more  likely  to  be  instructed  unto  the  discretion  nec¬ 
essary  to  His  husbandmen. 

We  were  all  much  blessed  on  the  field  once  by  the 
visit  of  an  evangelist  from  the  States.  His  Spirit- 
filled  ministry  was  never  more  remarkable  than  in  the 
messages  he  gave  our  Africans.  Even  though  given 
through  an  interpreter,  these  simple  messages  were 
honored  by  our  Lord  with  much  evident  fruit. 

This  evangelist  spent  a  few  days  among  the  Pyg¬ 
mies  in  company  with  two  other  missionaries.  It 
seems  that  one  of  the  messages  was  closed  with  the 
appeal  to  anyone  who  wished  to  accept  the  Lord 
to  raise  his  hand — so  every  Pygmy  there  raised  his 
hand.  Patiently  then  our  friend  tried  to  explain 
again  what  was  involved  in  such  a  step.  Then  he 
asked  those  who  really  wished  to  take  this  step  to 
stand  up.  Four  or  five  of  the  men  responded  at 
once.  Then,  seeing  the  others  still  sitting,  they  mo¬ 
tioned  them  all  to  stand  up  quickly.  In  a  less  spec¬ 
tacular  fashion,  almost  any  missionary  doing  evan¬ 
gelistic  work  in  Central  Africa  is  meeting  continually 
similar  experiences  or  their  possibility. 

There  is  a  tribe  near  one  of  our  mission  stations 
that  has  an  unusually  bad  reputation  for  instability 
and  lack  of  moral  or  any  other  kind  of  fiber.  The 
mines  do  not  like  to  employ  members  of  this  tribe; 
the  Government  officials  speak  very  disparagingly  of 
them.  In  general,  they 
would  seem  to  be,  and  do 
in  fact  prove  to  be,  rocky, 
shallow  soil.  Professions 
of  faith  among  them  are 


not  unusually  difficult  to  obtain.  Continuance  in  the 
way  of  faith  is  another  matter  altogether. 

The  Case  of  an  Unstable  Tribe 

Z.  K.,  a  boy  from  this  tribe,  followed  a  now  fa¬ 
miliar  road — mission  school,  profession  of  faith,  out- 
school  teacher.  One  day  he  just  quit  his  post  and 
returned  to  his  home  village  without  the  least  notice 
or  warning. 

Some  of  the  old  men  in  a  village  through  which 
Z.  K.  passed  on  his  way  home  told  him,  “You  young 
fellows,  you  don’t  know  what  you  want.” 

But  the  Lord  did  not  entirely  forsake  the  boy,  nor 
did  the  boy  entirely  forsake  Him.  Some  time  later, 
a  missionary  found  him  still  bearing  a  feeble  testi¬ 
mony  in  his  village.  This  missionary,  wise  in  the 
Lord  and  not  shrinking  from  the  labor,  took  the  boy, 
now  well  grown,  and  gave  him  time  and  special  in¬ 
struction.  The  boy  responded  and  grew  in  the  knowl¬ 
edge  of  the  Lord  and  His  Word  and  in  favor  with 
men.  He  became  a  leader  and  is  now  a  much-loved 
and  respected  pastor.  His  keen  spiritual  insight, 
his  home  and  personal  life,  are  an  inspiration  to 
white  and  black  alike.  Many  of  his  messages  are 
refreshingly  apt  and  evidently  Spirit-taught. 

For  an  object  lesson  which  he  brought  to  the  chil¬ 
dren  one  Sunday  morning  a  branch  picked  from  a 
flowering  bush  along  the  path  formed  the  basis  of  a 
lovely  message  on  the  vine  and  the  branches.  We 
are  sure  the  children  understood  it  as  it  was  re¬ 
inforced  with  a  reference  to  the  way  in  which  their 
mothers  watched  for  dead  branches  to  fall  from  the 
trees  and  become  their  firewood. 

From  shallow,  rocky  soil,  through  much  work  on 
the  part  of  God’s  servants,  this  one  was  brought 
into  a  life  of  depth  and  fruitfulness  in  our  Lord. 


12 


WEEDING  OUT  THE  THORNS 


“Thorns  also  and  thistles  shall  it  bring  forth  to 
thee  ....  In  the  sweat  of  thy  face  shall  thou  eat 
bread”  (Gen.  3:18, 19) . 

The  husbandman  who  expects  a  crop  is  not  finished 
when  the  ground  has  been  plowed,  the  rocks  re¬ 
moved,  the  seed  sown,  and  healthy  growth  sprung 
up.  Thorns  and  weeds  demand  attention — and  sweat. 
It  is  good  to  hear  of  the  number  of  souls  saved  or 
professing  faith.  But  if  we  are  tempted  to  over¬ 
look  the  less  spectacular  phases  of  nurturing  and 
establishing  the  churches,  recent  events  in  Asia 
and  threatening  in  Africa  should  awaken  us  sharply 
to  more  reasonable  views. 

Nor  are  we  left  in  doubt  of  the  meaning  of  the 
thorns.  Our  Lord  Himself  gives  these  three:  cares, 
riches,  pleasures  of  this  world.  A  profession  of 
faith  is  the  beginning,  not  the  end,  of  a  Chris¬ 
tian  life.  Is  it  not  amazing  that  we  so  easily  forget 
this  self-evident  fact,  and  lose  our  balance  toward 
the  popular  cry  for  the  number  of  “converts”? 

Much  can  be  done  to  insure  or  even  save  a  harv¬ 
est  threatened  with  thorns.  It  is  done  by  good  hard 
work  with  the  “hoe.”  How  fitting  indeed  is  the  ap¬ 
plication  of  this  word  to  the  Lord’s  work!  With 
the  hoe  of  the  Word  and  a  heart  that  does  not  shrink 
from  sweat,  the  Lord’s  servants  can  insure  or  save 
the  spiritual  fruitfulness  of  souls  and  churches. 
“Only  if  filled  with  the  Spirit,”  you  say.  Many  times, 
yes.  But  we  are  thinking  now  of  work  to  be  done. 

That  the  cares  of  this  world  do  choke  out  spirit¬ 
ual  life  and  fruitfulness  is  surely  an  experience  com¬ 
mon  to  man.  God  knows  this,  too,  and  has  filled  His 
Word  y/ith  exceeding  precious  promises  to  meet  that 
need.  As  He  exhorts  us  to  seek  first  the  kingdom 


13 


of  God  and  His  righteousness  and  to  cast  ail  of  our 
care  upon  Him  because  He  cares  for  us,  He  points 
the  way  to  getting  rid  of  this  kind  of  thorn — and  many 
rich  blessings  we  find  as  our  experiment  of  answer¬ 
ing  His  voice  in  such  words  becomes  the  experience 
of  the  reality  of  His  love  and  suffering. 

But  this  hoe  must  be  brought  into  contact  with  the 
thorns.  For  the  Christian  worker,  perhaps  especi¬ 
ally  for  the  missionary,  that  means  entering  into  the 
cares  of  our  fellow  Christians,  visiting  them,  learning 
sympathetically  of  their  particular  cares,  and  open¬ 
ing  the  practical  connection  between  this  particular 
care  and  that  particular  promise  or  exhortation.  It 
presupposes  such  spiritual  communion  and  patient 
endurance  on  our  part  that  we  have  learned  in  some 
measure  to  comfort  others  with  the  comfort  with 
which  we  ourselves  have  been  comforted. 

It  means  more  than  this,  too.  We  dare  not  merely 
say,  “Depart  in  peace,  be  ye  warmed  and  filled.”  With 
the  enabling  of  our  Master,  spiritually  and  materially, 
we  often  can  help  in  the  relieving  of  those  cares 
without  pauperizing.  We  can  help  them,  too,  in 
times  of  sickness  or  get  them  help.  We  can  exhibit 
that  guilelessness  and  sincere  sympathy  which  come 
only  with  real  effort.  We  can  still  visit  those  who 
are  in  prison  and  champion  the  widows  and  the 
fatherless.  Do  I  know,  then,  the  cares  that  are  mak¬ 
ing  that  church  or  those  Christians  spiritually  life¬ 
less  and  fruitless?  Do  I  know?  Do  I  care?  What 
have  I  done  about  them? 

The  Case  of  the  Leprous  Christian 

A  Christian  African  from  one  of  our  neighboring 
mission  stations  discovered  some  spots  of  leprosy 
on  his  body.  According  to  his  own  testimony,  his 
heart  became  very  bitter  toward  the  Lord  because 


14 


of  his  affliction.  He  turned  to  the  witch  doctors 
for  help,  but  there  was  no  help  there.  Finally,  he 
came  to  the  treatment  center  at  Oicha.  Again  he 
heard  the  Word  there.  The  Holy  Spirit  brought 
conviction  to  his  heart.  After  a  public  confession  of 
the  emptiness  of  his  wanderings,  he  is  trusting  in 
the  Lord  and  rejoicing  in  Him  again.  Now  he  spends 
much  of  his  time  witnessing  for  the  Lord  and  teach¬ 
ing  others  about  Him. 

Riches,  too,  are  thorns.  Many  aspects  of  native 
life  in  Africa  are  very  similar  to  the  pictures  in  our 
Old  and  New  Testaments.  The  native  words  for 
riches  include  not  only  money  but  all  of  one’s  means. 
These  riches  do  promise  so  much  of  comfort,  prestige, 
and  joys.  How  is  the  child  of  God  to  know  and  un¬ 
derstand  that  a  man’s  life  does  not  consist  in  the 
abundance  of  things  he  possesses?  Who  is  going  to 
teach  him  the  peril  to  his  soul  in  the  love  of  things? 
The  Word  abounds  in  such  teaching.  But  some  can¬ 
not  read  it;  others  will  not,  or  at  least  do  not. 

We  know  very  well  that  the  teaching  here  with¬ 
out  the  living  is  bare.  How  preoccupied  are  we  with 
the  things  we  have  and  with  their  care?  Are  we 
permitting  ourselves  to  be  cluttered  with  things  that 
are  not  only  not  very  useful  but  are  even  dragging?  It 
is  not  easy  to  give  them  up  or  to  live  sanely  in  their 
regard,  nor  is  it  easy  to  recognize  creeping  into 
our  own  lives  even  those  things  we  would  call  avarice 
or  covetousness  in  others.  Constant  spiritual  vigilance 
and  effort  are  the  price  needed.  But  it  is  in  such  ways 
that  the  thorns  in  our  part  of  the  Lord’s  field  are 
weeded  out. 

The  Case  of  the  Covetous  Teacher 

L.  was  a  bright  and  promising  boy  at  the  mission 
school.  He  made  a  profession  of  faith  in  our  Lord. 


15 


Because  of  his  bright  mentality  he  was  made  a 
teacher,  finally  the  head  schoolteacher.  While  serving 
in  this  capacity,  he  became  a  prey  to  the  love  of 
things  and  the  deceitfulness  of  riches.  One  day  a 
piece  of  jewelry  belonging  to  one  of  the  missionaries 
was  missing.  L.  proved  to  be  the  guilty  one.  With 
the  missionaries’  ever-ready  desire  to  give  another 
chance  to  a  weaker  brother,  L.  was  permitted  to 
work  in  the  hospital,  since  he  expressed  a  strong  de¬ 
sire  to  become  a  medical  helper. 

The  boy  had  not  worked  many  weeks  in  his  new 
position  when  precious  surgical  instruments  of  possi¬ 
ble  resale  value,  scissors  and  forceps,  began  to  dis¬ 
appear.  L.  was  confronted  with  the  mystery.  He  did 
not  confess,  but  the  next  day  all  of  the  missing  in¬ 
struments  lay  in  a  neat  row  in  the  cabinet  from 
which  they  had  been  taken.  Things  went  from  bad 
to  worse  until  finally  L.  ran  away  to  a  mining  center 
where  he  probably  felt  he  could  get  rich  more 
quickly. 

In  this  mining  center,  the  boy’s  keen  and  alert 
mind  readily  brought  him  a  good  position  as  a  clerk. 
He  seemed  to  revel  in  the  many  francs  he  was  earn¬ 
ing  weekly.  He  boasted  of  them  to  the  folk  back 
home,  and  sent  for  his  wife. 

In  that  camp  was  a  chapel.  The  African  serving 
there  as  evangelist  and  pastor  was  a  radiant  Chris¬ 
tian,  deeply  spiritual,  himself  taught  of  God  in 
thorny  personal  experiences.  The  pastor’s  wife  was 
a  real  partner  in  the  work  of  the  Lord.  L.  and  his 
wife  began  to  attend  services  in  the  chapel  and  be¬ 
came  acquainted  with  this  radiant  couple.  The 
evangelist  was  L.’s  peer  indeed,  yet  obviously  cov¬ 
eted  neither  wealth  nor  fame.  Conviction  and  re- 
pentence  followed. 


16 


When  the  question  of  baptism  came  up,  the  evan¬ 
gelist,  wise  in  the  Spirit,  urged  L.  to  go  back  to  his 
old  mission  station,  seek  forgiveness  of  those  he 
had  wronged,  and  ask  to  be  baptized  before  the  peo¬ 
ple  who  knew  him  and  knew  his  past.  To  many  it  was 
an  unforgettable  time  when  L.,  on  leave,  did  all  of 
this,  and  by  his  baptism  made  public  profession  of 
his  death  to  the  old  life  and  his  resurrection  to  the 
new.  All  of  this  covered  some  time.  But  thorns 
had  been  weeded  out  and  a  fruitful  life  begun. 

Pleasures  also  can  be  thorns.  The  Word  says, 
“Pleasures  of  this  life,”  for  it  is  very  clear  from 
that  same  Word  that  our  Lord  intends  His  children 
to  be  joyful  and  happy.  Clumsy  weeding  may  easily 
tear  up  wheat  with  the  thorns.  Little  serious  ex¬ 
perience  in  the  Lord’s  work  is  needed  to  teach  us 
that  special  care  is  needed  with  this  particular  kind 
of  thorn. 

The  African— is  it  only  the  African?— is  noted  par¬ 
ticularly  as  being  a  social  creature.  It  is  necessary 
to  weed  out  by  word  and  example  the  thorns  of 
worldly  pleasure  that  choke  out  fruitfulness.  But 
positive  interest  and  action  in  replacing  wholesome 
activity  for  the  vacuum  left  in  rooting  out  evil  pleas¬ 
ures  should  not  bear  the  stigma  they  often  do.  Or 
might  it  just  be  reluctance  on  our  part  to  exert  the 
effort  needed?  It  really  is  easier  just  to  slash  our 
way  through,  which  is  the  way  of  some  workmen 
with  hoes. 

Because  so  much  spiritual  discernment  is  needed 
here,  so  much  the  more  patient  teaching  from  the  op¬ 
ened  Word  is  needed,  hallowed  and  illumined  by  the 
teachers’  own  experience  and  life.  The  knowledge 
that  pleasure  is  rarely  found  where  pleasure  is  sought 
is  inded  a  wisdom  that  has  to  come  from  above. 


17 


How  many  of  us  have  found  learning  that  lesson  a 
painful  experience!  The  Holy  Spirit  seems  to  say 
to  us,  “Let  us  give  the  time  and  effort  necessary  to 
get  this  thing  across.” 

The  missionary  has  a  wide  field  of  opportunity 
to  show  forth  these  truths  by  his  life,  and  a  corre¬ 
sponding  responsibility  not  to  cloud  them.  Even 
such  necessities  as  daily  rest,  sufficient  food, 
and  adequate  vacations  may  be  overdone.  Those 
about  us  are  quicker  to  see  our  inconsistencies  than 
we  are  to  realize  them.  Are  we  evidently  finding 
the  pleasure  in  the  Lord’s  work  which  He  ordained 
as  a  part  of  it?  If  not,  we  are  bound  to  be  looking 
for  it  elsewhere  and  to  be  doing  little  effectual  hoeing 
of  this  kind  of  thorn. 

The  Case  of  the  Backslidden  Truck  Driver 

The  truck  drivers  of  Central  Africa  are  a  special 
breed  of  men,  bred  of  bitter  circumstances  and  hu¬ 
man  greed  on  the  part  of  black  and  white.  The  very 
necessities  of  the  sudden  need  for  motor  transport 
in  that  part  of  the  world  have  led  to  their  forma¬ 
tion.  Stealing,  lying,  deceit,  drunkenness,  and  im¬ 
morality  form  the  background  for  the  state  of  war 
existing  between  black  and  white  in  this  field.  Yet 
each  needs  the  other  too  much  to  break  off  the  re¬ 
lationship. 

M.  P.  had  joined  the  ranks  of  the  truck  drivers.  He 
was  an  African  who  had  been  baptized  some  years 
before.  The  pleasures  of  the  world  beckoned,  and 
he  followed.  As  a  truck  driver,  at  a  relatively  good 
salary,  he  tasted  pretty  much  all  there  was  to  taste, 
and  in  the  process  he  had  acquired  no  less  than  eight 
wives.  Sick,  he  came  to  a  missionary  medical  center 
for  treatment.  Convicted  in  these  surroundings  and 


18 


by  the  faithful  ministry  of  the  Word,  he  returned 
to  a  new  life. 

His  first  prominent  act  on  returning  from  the 
hospital  was  to  ask  an  astonished  official  legally  to 
sever  his  connections  with  the  last  seven  wives  with¬ 
out  the  return  of  the  dowry  price.  This  was  the 
more  astonishing  because  rarely  is  even  one  woman 
returned  without  the  refund  of  the  dowry,  and  the 
sum  involved  for  M.  P.  was,  to  an  African,  quite 
a  fortune. 

Soon  we  began  to  hear  of  this  man’s  happy  testi¬ 
mony  among  his  fellow  truck  drivers  and  of  his  suc¬ 
cess  in  leading  others  to  the  Lord.  Now  he  stops  in 
from  time  to  time  as  he  passes,  for  he  is  still  a  truck 
driver.  He  has  gotten  a  phonograph  and  every  Chris¬ 
tian  record  he  can  find  in  the  native  tongues.  (There 
are  a  number  of  them  now,  though  they  never  are 
enough.)  He  uses  those  he  has  to  help  him  in  his 
testimony  as  he  travels,  and  he  keeps  alert  for  more. 
Almost  every  time  we  meet  him  now,  he  tells  how 
many  souls  the  Lord  has  given  him  during  the  past 
week  or  month.  In  business  matters  also,  he  is  im¬ 
plicitly  trusted  by  his  white  employer. 

There  is  a  happy  little  postscript  to  M.  P.’s  story. 
He  had  been  childless,  a  major  tragedy  in  the  think¬ 
ing  of  Central  Africa.  Now  the  Lord  has  given  him 
and  his  “first  wife”  two  lovely,  healthy  children. 

Men  and  women  are  creatures  of  free  will.  There¬ 
fore  they  may  harden  their  hearts,  refuse  the  con¬ 
ditions  of  a  life  deeply  rooted  in  our  Lord,  or  de¬ 
liberately  cling  to  those  things  which  hinder  spiritual 
fruitfulness.  But  in  many  cases  these  conditions  are 
not  so  deliberate  and  there  is  much  that  can  be 
done  by  the  Lord’s  servants  to  change  them.  There 
seems  little  question  that  most  of  us  could  do  much 


19 


more  hoeing  and  less  complaining  about  the  soil— 
and  in  caring  for  the  harvest  field  about  him,  the 
Lord’s  servant  needs  constantly  to  care  for  the  gar¬ 
den  of  his  own  heart  as  well. 

Our  Lord’s  challenge  to  each  one  of  us  seems  un¬ 
mistakable.  The  indifference,  preoccupation,  and  hos¬ 
tility  around  us  are  not  immoveable.  The  gospel 
is  indeed  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation  to  every 
one  that  believeth  and  the  only  answer  to  man’s 
many  problems.  And  when  the  seed  of  this  gospel 
falls  into  good  ground  the  resulting  fruit  is  more 
glorious  than  ever  in  very  contrast  to  the  times. 

Indeed,  we  do  not  find  good  soil  all  around  us.  But 
we  do  find  some  kind  of  soil  everywhere,  even  though 
much  of  it  is  hard,  or  stony,  or  choked  by  thorns.  In 
the  power  of  the  Holy  Spirit  there  is  given  to  us  the 
high  privilege  of  working  these  unpromising  soils 
until  they  become  good  and  fruitful  soil — and  then  of 
planting  the  seed. 

So  let  us  away  with  that  sense  of  frustration, 
God  is  still  on  His  throne.  The  strategy  above  gov¬ 
ernments  and  men  belongs  to  Him.  Of  us  He  asks 
that  we  be  faithful  stewards,  that  we  study  to  show 
ourselves  approved  by  Him.  To  us  belongs  the 
tilling  and  the  sowing.  In  due  season  we  shall  reap 
if  we  faint  not. 

So  let  us  reconsider  those  boys,  those  girls,  that 
man,  that  woman,  with  whom  we  are  in  contact  or 
who  are  under  our  care.  We  may  have  witnessed  to 
them  without  effect.  Now  what  can  we  do,  in  our 
Lord,  to  change  their  hearts  to  good  soil  ready  for 
the  planting? 


20 


$  THE  AUTHOR  of  this  study  on  the 
spiritual  soils  where  the  Word  of  God  is 
sown  speaks  from  experience  in  the  harv¬ 
est  field.  Leaving  his  busy  practice  as  a 
doctor  in  America,  h©  went  to  Central 
Africa  as  a  medical  missionary.  For  many 
years  he  has  been  carrying  on  a  work  in 
hospital,  dispensary,  and  leper  camp 
there.  While  that  work  has  become  tre¬ 
mendous  in  size,  it  has  been  a  work  that 
has  proved  especially  fruitful  in  genuine 
spiritual  results,  so  that  he  writes  with 
a  personal  knowledge  of  the  dividends 
won  through  the  tilling  and  clearing  and 
weeding  ©t  the  soil  of  human  souls. 


Africa  inland  ^Mission 

HEADQUARTERS 
375  Carlton  Avenue 
Brooklyn  5,  N.  Y. 


CANADIAN  OFFICE 
I  Glencrest  Boulevard,  Toronto  13,  Ont. 


PHICi  10  CENTS 


cA^rica 

THE  LAND  OF  POSSIBILITIES 


Africa  is  fast  becoming  known  the  world 
over  as  the  land  of  possibilities.  In  the  provi¬ 
dence  of  God,  the  Dark  Continent,  so  long  a 
closed  book  to  the  rest  of  the  world,  is  becom¬ 
ing  an  open  one  and,  although  there  are  still 
vast  numbers  of  natives  unreached  by  thc- 
white  man,  the  advances  made  in  recent  years 
have  been  phenomenal. 

The  Country 

Africa  is  the  second  largest  continent,  and 
embraces  eleven  and  a  half  million  square 
miles,  mostly  tropical,  with  huge  forests,  vast 
deserts  and  wide  plateaus  filled  with  big  game. 
Wide  spread  epidemics  of  malaria,  African 
sleeping  sickness,  etc.,  have  helped  keep  the 
population  of  many  areas  relatively  sparse.  But 
the  highlands  of  Central  Africa,  free  to  a 
great  degree  from  those  diseases,  are  much 
more  thickly  populated,  and  modern  medical 
2 


science  is  fast  removing  the  health-hazards  of 
the  past  even  from  the  lowlands.  In  the  ex¬ 
treme  north  and  south  the  climate  of  Africa 
is  sub-tropical  and  salubrious. 

The  People 

There  are  at  least  one  hundred  and  fifty 
million  people  in  Africa,  of  whom  about  five 
million  are  of  European  descent.  Most  of 
these  latter  live  in  South  Africa.  The  three 
largest  divisions  of  the  native  population  are 
the  desert  or  Arabic  types  of  North  Africa, 
the  Nilotic  and  the  Bantu  strains  of  Negroes 
who  live  from  a  few  degrees  north  of  the 
Equator  to  the  extreme  south  of  the  continent. 

Languages  and  Literacy 

These  families  are  subdivided  into  a  great 
many  tribes  speaking  about  523  distinct  lan¬ 
guages  and  more  than  300  dialects.  The  Ni¬ 
lotic  peoples  speak  languages  which  are  inton¬ 
ated.  The  languages  of  the  Bantu  peoples 
have  a  peculiar  but  intricate  structure,  such  as 
the  classification  of  nouns,  but  with  regular 
accents.  The  Arabic  and  Amharic  tongues  of 
North  Africa  and  Ethiopia  have  their  own 
script.  The  Nilotic  and  Bantu  tongues  have 
been  unwritten.  These  latter  are  being  reduced 
to  writing  mainly  through  the  efforts  of  mis¬ 
sionaries.  Much  remains  to  be  done.  It  natural¬ 
ly  follows  that  illiteracy  is  widespread.  Among 
the  negro  peoples  it  has  been  universal.  The 
governments  have  more  recently  paid  some 
attention  to  the  task.  But  education  of  most 
3 


of  the  native  peoples  of  central  and  south 
Africa  remains  in  the  hands  of  Christian  mis¬ 
sions. 

Religions 

It  is  estimated  that  there  are  at  least  ninety 
million  pagans  in  Africa.  By  these  are  meant 
men,  women  and  children  who,  though  they 
have  a  vague  idea  of  a  Creator,  are  largely  oc¬ 
cupied  in  appeasing  evil  spirits  of  ancestors 
or  demons,  accepted  as  the  causes  of  most  of 
the  sickness  or  misfortune  of  life.  Witchcraft 
is  rampant.  They  have  priests,  ritual,  and  sacri¬ 
fices  directed  mainly  to  these  spirits.  Theirs  is 
a  life  of  fear  and  torment.  The  witch-doctors 
are  their  priests,  and  are  regarded  with  terror 
because  of  their  power  to  harm  as  well  as  to 
help  in  times  of  trouble. 

It  is  a  sad  commentary  upon  the  neglect  of 
the  Christian  Church  that  there  are  forty-five 
million  Mohammedans  in  Africa.  If  the  early 
church,  which  was  planted  in  North  Africa 
soon  after  the  days  of  the  Apostles,  had 
been  obedient  to  the  Great  Commission, 
things  would  be  very  different  now.  Because 
those  early  believers  disputed  over  non-essen¬ 
tials  and  even  trivialities,  the  great  masses  of 
people  were  left  without  the  Gospel.  The  de¬ 
clension  of  the  early  Church  in  North  Africa 
gave  the  opportunity  to  the  followers  of  Mo¬ 
hammed  to  cross  from  Arabia  and,  by  the  use 
of  the  sword,  to  plant  the  crescent  among 
these  millions  of  Africans  having  a  small, 
largely  formal  and  lifeless  Coptic  Church. 

4 


Political  Situation 

It  must  be  admitted  that,  with  but  a  few  ex¬ 
ceptions  in  North  Africa  and  Ethiopia,  the 
African  peoples  are  not  ready  for  self-govern¬ 
ment.  Nor  is  there  any  real  movement  in  that 
direction  on  the  part  of  the  Africans  them¬ 
selves.  However  cynically  we  may  view  the 
exploitation  of  these  lands  and  peoples  by 
colonial  governments  yet  we  must  acknowledge 
that  without  them  vast  areas  would  rapidly 
return  to  intertribal  chaos.  The  near  future 
may  well  be  different. 

Missionary  Activity 

Within  two  centuries  after  Pentecost  nine 
hundred  strong  churches  had  been  established 
in  Africa  along  the  Mediterranean  coast,  and 
a  missionary  training  school  founded  in  Alex¬ 
andria.  Apostasy  here  was  followed  by  the 
advent  of  Mohammedanism.  Later  some  work 
along  the  west  coast  and  in  South  Africa  was 
followed  by  the  journeys  of  Livingstone  and 
the  penetration  of  the  vast  interior  of  the 
continent.  The  problems  have  been  stagger¬ 
ing.  Due  to  the  absolute  absence  of  literacy 
in  so  much  of  Africa,  and  due  to  the  mass 
of  sickness  and  suffering  not  otherwise  re¬ 
lieved,  educational  and  medical  work,  not 
essentially  spiritual  in  nature  or  elsewhere 
so  necessary,  have  been  indispensable  here  as 
parts  of  the  missionary  task.  The  problems 
involved  especially  in  the  tremendous  changes 
5 


of  later  years,  continue  to  challenge  the 
brightest  minds,  the  highest  statesmanship 
and  the  most  profound  spiritual  discern¬ 
ment  of  the  Christian  Church.  And  this 
applies  no  less  to  the  great  Mohammedan  areas 
of  the  North.  Due  mainly  to  political  reasons 
some  parts  of  Africa  are  still  closed  to  the 
Gospel.  And  there  certainly  remain  consider¬ 
able  areas  and  populations  untouched.  To  a 
remarkable  degree,  however,  through  the  hand¬ 
ful  of  missionaries,  the  Lord  has  scattered 
lightly  held  missionary  centers  right  through 
the  heart  of  the  continent.  The  estimate  of 
those  who  have  given  the  closest  attention  to 
the  subject  places  the  number  of  Africans  who 
are  still  beyond  the  reach  of  present  missionary 
forces  somewhere  between  fifty  and  seventy 
millions.  The  greatest  area  and  the  most  neg¬ 
lected  field  is  still  that  of  the  Mohammedan 
people. 

The  Christian  Church 

There  is  reason  to  believe  that  there  must 
be  at  least  two  millions  of  born-again  believers 
among  the  natives  of  Africa,  while  there  are 
many  more  enquirers,  almost  persuaded,  for 
whom  we  should  especially  pray.  After  the 
seed  sowing  of  these  few  decades  a  time  of 
harvest  has  come.  A  church,  His  church  is 
coming  into  being.  If  in  some  parts  of  Africa 
this  is  marred  by  human  factions,  that  is  not 
everywhere  true.  Indeed  this  church  is  rich  in 
the  fruit  of  the  Spirit  and  abundantly  blessed 
with  the  gifts  of  the  Spirit. 

6 


The  Opportunity 

It  may  well  be  that,  should  our  Lord  tarry 
and  should  the  church  awake  to  the  present 
opportunities  and  needs,  the  number  of  mis¬ 
sionaries  needed  in  Africa  could  in  a  reason¬ 
able  time  be  materially  decreased.  Whatever 
is  done  in  Africa  demands  immediate  action, 
we  dare  not  delay.  The  open  but  unreached 
areas  cry  for  witness  now,  and  seed  sowing  is 
ever  urgent.  We  see  here,  too,  an  abundant 
harvest  ripe  for  the  gathering.  We  see  those 
few  missionaries  in  their  scattered  stations, 
often  in  the  midst  of  vast  unreached  areas, 
overwhelmed  with  the  abundance  of  that  har¬ 
vest.  Their  extremity  calls  loudly  to  the  Church 
of  Christ.  Now  is  the  time  to  bring  the  mes¬ 
sage  of  reconciliation  and  salvation  to  Africa’s 
multitudes.  Now.  the  African  church  needs 
Bible  teaching  of  such  character  and  propor¬ 
tions  as  the  present  native  ministry  is  as  yet 
far  from  being  equal  to  give.  Now,  those 
Africans  blessed  with  evident  gifts  of  the 
Spirit  need  that  training  for  leadership  and 
ministry  which  has  been  well  described  as 
"the  key  to  the  missionary  problem.”  Now, 
the  native  Christian,  not  yet  finding  any  other 
human  help  in  frequent  times  of  sickness  and 
accident,  needs  the  comfort  and  help  of  Chris¬ 
tian  doctors  and  nurses. 

NOW  NOW  NOW 


7 


ROOM  715 
1860  BROADWAY 
NEW  YORK  23,  N.  Y. 

Issued  by  the  Interdenominational  Foreign  Mission  Association 
of  North  America.  Sample  copies  of  this  and  other  pamphlets 
will  be  sent  free  (ooxapl&tft-set-l-S-s)  and  orders  filled  by  address¬ 
ing  the  I.F.M.A.,  -&08— Gentrai  "Avsnuer  Ptairrfieltij— Ifew_Jezssy . 

O.S.A- 


THE  HARRINGTON  PRESS 


“The  Surgical  Ward” 

Soul -winning 
Opportunities 

at 

Aba  Hospital 


Soul-winning  Opportunities 
at  Aba  Hospital 

AMISSIONARY  hospital  that  is  worthy  of  the 
name  is  concerned  about  more  than  the 
physical  disabilities  of  its  patients  and  is 
more  concerned  about  sin-sick  souls  than  about 
disease-burdened  bodies.  Such  a  place  is  Aba  hos¬ 
pital  in  the  Congo.  On  each  patient’s  chart,  along 
with  the  record  of  his  diagnosis  and  treatment  and 
other  vital  information,  is  a  note  as  to  whether  he 
is  pagan  or  a  Catholic  or  Protestant  adherent.  This 
gives  the  nurse  who  tends  him  some  idea  of  how 
to  approach  him  in  ministering  to  the  needs  of  his 
soul.  Should  he  be  in  a  very  critical  condition,  it 
may  not  be  possible  to  save  his  physical  life,  but 
he  is  pointed  to  the  One  who  is  able  to  give  him 
eternal  life. 

The  circumstances  under  which  medical  work 
is  carried  on  in  Africa  make  it  possible  to  deal 
with  a  great  number  of  individuals  for  a  prolonged 
period.  Many  patients  who  need  surgical  treat¬ 
ment  walk  in  from  districts  as  far  as  two  or  three 
hundred  miles  away,  sometimes  in  large  companies. 
With  a  limited  staff  and  equipment,  there  are 
of  necessity  many  who  must  wait  for  many  weeks, 
if  their  cases  are  not  urgent,  before  their  turn 
comes  in  the  operating  room.  These  patients  never 
come  alone— always  there  are  relatives.  While  the 
entertainment  of  these  relatives  may  be  a  problem, 
they  are  ground  for  gospel  seed-sowing,  and  their 
conversion  may  mean  the  entrance  of  gospel  light 
in  whole  areas  as  yet  unreached  by  a  gospel 
ministry. 


The  African  young  men  and  women  who  are 
nurses  and  nurses  in  training  all  are  Christians,  and 
to  each  nurse  is  committed  the  spiritual  oversight 
of  one  or  two  patients’  huts.  Regular  services  are 
carried  on  at  hospital,  dispensary,  and  leper  camp. 
Usually  it  is  the  night  nurse  who  sings  and  reads 
and  prays  with  the  patients  who  are  in  the  surgical 
ward.  The  prayer  for  the  Lord’s  blessing  on  the 
doctor  and  his  assistants  has  made  a  deep  impres¬ 
sion  on  many  a  patient,  European  or  African,  as 
he  has  sat  on  the  edge  of  the  operating  table  just 
before  the  anesthetic  was  administered.  The  hospi¬ 
tal  workers’  report  meeting  held  once  a  month  is 
a  time  of  rejoicing  for  blessing  granted  and  united 
intercession  for  the  spiritual  needs  of  the  many 
people  under  their  care. 

The  work  is  carried  on  far  too  shorthanded  for 
the  workers  to  do  all  for  the  patient  that  v/ould  be 
done  in  a  hospital  at  home,  so  every  patient  who  is 
too  ill  to  care  for  himself  must  bring  a  friend  or 
a  relative  with  him  to  take  care  of  his  food  and 
perform  any  other  duties  that  may  be  done  by 
untrained  hands.  Thus  the  relative  who  sleeps 
under  the  bed  is  hearing  the  gospel  as  frequently 
as  the  patient  who  is  on  the  bed. 


Have  You  Seen 

All  of  These  A.I.M.  Publications? 


Order  these  books: 

Trumpet  Notes  in  Congo  by  Austin  Paul  ....  $1 .50 
Sheee-ja  by  Lucilda  A.  Newton . 50 

Subscribe  for  'Bland  Africa" 

Issued  bi-monthly . per  year  .75 


AFRICA  INLAND  MISSION 

Founded  in  1895  by  Peter  Cameron  Scott 
HEADQUARTERS 

375  Carlton  Avenue,  Brooklyn  5,  New  York 

CANADIAN  OFFICE 

1  Glencrest  Boulevard,  Toronto  13,  Ontario 

Over  400  workers  in  six  fields  in  East  and  Central  Africa. 
Information  and  Literature  sent  upon  request. 
Deputation  speakers  available. 

Deputation  Secretaries 

REV.  WILLIAM  S.  PONTIER  REV.  AUSTIN  PAUL 

48  Tennyson  Place  557  E.  Locust  Avenue 

Passaic,  New  jersey  Philadelphia  44,  Pa. 

REV.  GEORGE  W.  WEPPLER 
1  Clencrest  Boulevard,  Toronto  13,  Ontario 
Member  of  I.  F.  M.  A. 

*»!£** 


A  (freat  Door  and 
Effectual  is  Open. . 

I  CORINTHIANS  16:  9 


% 


A  Great  Door  and  Effectual 
is  Open  .... 


"Ten  thousand  hymn  books  in  Bangala  next, 
fellows!  The  supply  is  about  exhausted.” 

"But,  Bwana,  did  we  not  do  five  thousand 
just  a  year  ago?”  was  the  dismayed  inquiry  as 
they  thought  of  that  endless  cutting  of  paper, 
letter  by  letter  setting  of  type,  folding,  collat¬ 
ing,  stapling  and  trimming  involved  in  that 
announcement.  And  not  only  the  Bangala 
hymn  book  was  waiting  to  be  printed  again, 
but  it  seemed  a  veritable  mountain  of  new 
manuscripts  and  reprints  of  Gospel  literature 
and  school  material  in  more  than  a  half  dozen 
tribal  languages  was  piled  on  Bwana’s  desk 
awaiting  attention.  There  was  gladness,  and 
yet  sadness,  in  contemplating  that  pile — glad¬ 
ness  in  seeing  the  demand  for  the  printed 
Word;  and  sadness  in  realizing  how  inade¬ 
quate  the  equipment  was  to  meet  the  great 
need. 

BEGINNINGS 

Thirty-three  years  ago  when  the  Africa  In¬ 
land  Mission  first  penetrated  into  that  north¬ 
eastern  corner  of  Belgian  Congo  the  tribes 
were  pagan  and  illiterate.  Not  a  glimmer  of 
the  Gospel  light  had  shined  unto  them.  As 
the  missionaries  entered,  their  uppermost 
thought  was  to  establish  a  medium  of  com- 
3 


munication  that  they  might  pass  on  to  these  the 
message  of  the  Word  of  God  concerning  sal¬ 
vation  through  faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
There  were  no  written  languages  so  the  im¬ 
mediate  problem  was  to  acquire  a  verbal 
vocabulary.  By  signs  and  wonders  this  was 
slowly  accomplished.  The  pencil  soon  earned 
for  itself  the  name  of  "the  talking  stick”,  and 
the  desire  to  learn  this  new  magic  of  knowing 
another’s  thoughts  from  its  antics  on  a  piece  of 
paper  was  the  opening  needed.  All  who  would, 
old  and  young,  gathered  daily  to  learn  this 
new  mystery  of  marks  and  scratches.  So  the 
work  of  translation  began  immediately;  and 
simultaneously  the  arduous  task  of  teaching, 
for  no  missionary’s  work  is  ever  finished  until 
the  native  is  able  to  read  the  Word  of  God 
for  himself  and  tell  it  to  others. 

There  were  no  established  curricula  or  school 
systems  so  without  any  restrictions  the  Word 
of  God  became  the  foundation  of  their  learn¬ 
ing.  A  great  engraving  process  had  begun  on 
the  hearts  and  minds  of  a  people  whose  under¬ 
standing  for  many  generations  had  been 
blinded  and  warped  by  Satan.  As  they  learned 
the  letters  and  words  they  absorbed  the  Word 
of  God,  too,  line  upon  line,  precept  upon 
precept,  here  a  little,  there  a  little.  The  Holy 
Spirit,  with  His  Sword,  i.e.  the  Word  of  God, 
faithfully  worked,  piercing  their  darkness  with 
the  Light  of  the  Gospel.  The  ones  and  twos 
believed  the  message  and  trusted  Christ  as 
their  Saviour,  laboriously  achieved  their  goal 
in  reading  and  writing,  and  went  back  to 
4 


witness  to  their  people  in  the  villages.  Thus 
the  pattern  for  an  extensive  preaching  and 
teaching  of  the  Gospel  was  evolved. 

All  this  meant  a  tremendous  amount  of 
work  for  each  missionary,  preparing  by  hand 
the  charts,  primers,  Scripture  lessons,  etc., 
needed  not  only  for  himself  but  for  these 
native  evangelists  and  teachers.  And  the  load 
of  this  kind  of  work  increased  to  great  propor¬ 
tions  as  the  missionary  personnel  was  aug¬ 
mented  and  stations  in  new  territories  were 
opened.  Hours  and  hours  were  being  spent  on 
each  station  all  over  the  field  preparing  similar 
materials. 

GROWTH 

After  about  ten  years  of  such  missionary 
spade-work  the  General  Director,  a  far-sighted 
man  of  God,  realized  that  a  centralized  print¬ 
ing  press  could,  at  one  setting  of  type,  provide 
enough  copies  for  an  entire  language  area,  and 
thus  eliminate  a  vast  amount  of  duplicated 
labor.  Accordingly,  in  1922,  the  first  press,  a 
Chandler  &  Price  platen  press  to  take  a  sheet 
eight  and  a  half  by  eleven  inches,  several  fonts 
of  type,  a  paper  cutter,  metal  top  table  and  a 
few  other  essentials  arrived  at  the  head  of  the 
Nile  River  at  Rejaf  in  Southern  Egyptian 
Sudan.  The  equipment  was  too  heavy  to  be 
portered  on  the  heads  of  natives,  and  so  for 
lack  of  transport  facilities  over  the  route  135 
miles  further  inland  to  Aba,  the  Africa  In¬ 
land  Mission’s  nearest  station  in  the  Belgian 
Congo,  it  lay  for  many  months  on  the  banks  of 
the  Nile.  Exposure  to  the  weather  caused  dam- 
5 


age  to  the  metal  parts,  and  the  termites  riddled 
the  wooden  equipment  as  well  as  the  stocks 
of  paper.  When  the  outfit  eventually  reached 
the  mission  at  Aba,  examination  showed  break¬ 
age  in  transit  of  vital  parts  of  both  press  and 
paper  cutter,  without  which  work  could  not 
proceed.  As  the  missionaries  sadly  stored  away 
the  helper  long  awaited  they  realized  anew 
they  were  in  the  domain  of  Satan  who  was 
fighting  with  very  real  though  unseen  powers 
every  advance  of  God’s  Word  into  his  terri¬ 
tory.  In  1927,  5  years  later,  when  the 
shipment  of  replacement  parts  finally  arrived, 
the  replacement  standard  for  the  cutter  proved 
to  be  the  duplicate  of  the  good  one,  not  the 
broken  one!  Refusing  to  let  another  disap¬ 
pointment  defeat  them,  however,  they  con¬ 
trived  a  repair,  carefully  scoured  off  the  layers 
of  rust  from  the  various  metal  surfaces,  pre¬ 
pared  an  available  building  for  a  work-shop 
and  set  about  to  learn  the  printing  trade.  A 
new  era  had  begun ! 

By  the  late  fall  of  1927  the  missionary  with 
three  natives  had  learned  enough  of  the 
routine  typesetting  and  press  work  to  begin  to 
lift  the  burden  of  his  fellow-workers.  They 
were  now  covering  that  thousand  mile  stretch 
of  Congo  from  the  borders  of  French  Equa¬ 
torial  down  to  snow-capped  Mount  Ruwenzori 
on  Lake  Edward.  There  was  no  one  to  give  full 
time  and  attention  to  that  vital  ministry.  The 
one  then  overseeing  the  Aba  Press  was  also  re¬ 
sponsible  for  the  School  of  Evangelists.  Later 
a  similar  press  was  set  up  at  Ruwenzori  where 
6 


hands  and  time,  already  full,  attempted  to 
supply  material  for  that  language  area.  The 
missionaries  preaching  and  teaching  the  Word 
constantly  in  more  than  a  half  dozen  different 
languages  had  an  accumulation  of  hymns, 
Gospel  portions,  Bible  stories,  catechisms, 
doctrinal  studies,  primers  and  other  teaching 
helps  which  they  urgently  needed  in  print.  Be¬ 
sides  there  were  the  record  cards  needed  for 
the  medical  dispensaries  and  three  hospitals, 
report  and  record  forms  for  the  station  and 
out-district  schools,  texts  for  the  Evangelists’ 
School,  and  a  score  of  other  necessary  material 
peculiar  to  a  work  among  a  primitive  people. 
Though  kept  alive  and  producing  as  a  side¬ 
line  by  already  busy  missionaries,  the  presses 
were  able  to  supply  but  a  small  fraction  of 
this  much  needed  material. 

On  the  other  side  of  the  world  the  Lord 
was,  unknown  to  all,  answering  their  many 
prayers  as  He  constrained  a  young  printer  to 
leave  his  work  in  Pennsylvania  and  study  the 
Word  of  God  at  the  Moody  Bible  Institute  in 
preparation  for  full-time  service  wherever  the 
Lord  should  indicate.  In  May,  1938,  kept  and 
led  those  intervening  years  by  the  guiding 
hand  of  the  Lord,  he  and  his  wife  arrived  at 
Aba  to  be  met  with  the  words,  "At  last!  You 
are  the  answer  to  our  prayers  of  ten  years.  Will 
you  undertake  this  press  work?”  As  the  great 
need  was  explained  and  the  unlimited  oppor¬ 
tunities  envisioned,  what  answer  but  "Yes” 
could  they  give. 


7 


THE  PRESENT 

In  to  the  press  from  all  points  poured  the 
flood  of  materials  prepared  during  the  years. 
The  one  press  couldn’t  begin  to  cope  with 
the  work  to  be  done.  Another  small  hand 
press  was  located  and  purchased,  the  one  from 
Ruwenzori  was  donated  to  the  outfit,  and  with 
a  few  more  native  helpers  the  output  began 
to  speed  up.  The  larger  presses  were  propelled 
by  a  foot  pedal  as  the  hand  fed  in  the  sheets 
of  paper, — a  manipulation  not  very  conducive 
to  efficiency  or  speed,  especially  under  a  tin 
roof  in  the  tropical  sun.  Their  top  limit  daily 
was  only  a  few  thousand  impressions,  i.e. 
copies  of  one  side  of  a  sheet.  Often  two  or 
three  days  were  needed  to  print  the  full  quota 
of  one  sheet  of  an  •  edition  of  eight  thou¬ 
sand.  One  press  would  be  tied  up  entirely 
with  just  one  job  for  a  matter  of  months  at 
that  rate,  which  would  mean  material  still 
on  the  waiting  list  and  urgently  needed  in 
another  language  couldn’t  possibly  be  hoped 
for  in  print  for  several  years  ahead.  If  the 
Word  of  God,  that  Sword  of  the  Spirit,  were 
to  make  even  a  dent  in  the  intense  heathen 
darkness  of  those  three  million  people,  it 
meant  the  press  would  have  to  greatly  increase 
its  production. 

Necessity,  becoming  the  mother  of  inven¬ 
tion,  as  is  so  often  the  case  on  the  mission 
field,  brought  forth  a  new  means  of  powering 
the  presses — a  bicycle,  minus  the  rear  fender, 
backed  against  the  large  wheel  of  the  press 
and  held  firmly  in  position  upon  a  stand,  a 
8 


native  on  the  seat  pedalling  as  if  he  really 
meant  to  get  somewhere,  and  lo !  three  hours 
now  produced  what  had  been  done  in  a  day 
previously.  At  first  this  bicycle  contraption 
was  great  fun  to  the  natives  as  they  travelled 
in  imagination  all  over  the  country.  But  the 
fun  soon  settled  down  to  hard  work  with  their 
legs  aching  and  the  perspiration  dripping  from 
their  bodies  as  they  took  their  turns  pedalling 
nowhere.  Neither  was  the  stepped-up  output 
meeting  the  increasing  demands.  Not  only  was 
the  Aba  Press  the  chief  source  of  reading 
material  to  the  nineteen  mission  stations  of 
the  Africa  Inland  Mission  reaching  into  some 
twenty  tribes  over  a  quarter  million  square 
miles,  but  to  a  great  extent  it  was  also  the 
source  of  literature  to  the  eight  or  more  other 
mission  societies  whose  territories  border  the 
Africa  Inland  Mission  sphere  and  stretch 
hundeds  of  miles  further  into  French  Equator¬ 
ial  Africa,  the  Anglo-Egyptian  Sudan,  Uganda, 
and  western  Congo. 

To  meet  the  insistent  pleas  for  more  ma¬ 
terial,  and  to  ease  the  strain  on  the  native 
helpers,  a  little  one-half  horsepower  gasoline 
motor  was  procured  with  which,  by  means  of 
home-made  pulleys  from  car  brake  drums, 
shafts  from  axels  and  belts  from  tire  fabric,  a 
contraption  was  rigged  up  to  run  both  presses 
together.  This  speeded  up  the  presses  to  full 
capacity  per  hour,  making  ten  to  twelve  thou¬ 
sand  impressions  being  pounded  out  by  each 
daily.  To  further  cope  with  the  growing  pile 
of  jobs  to  be  done  the  native  helpers  were 
9 


divided  into  two  eight-hour  shifts  so  that  from 
six  in  the  morning  until  six  at  night  the  three 
presses  were  pouring  forth  a  stream  of  Gospel 
literature  and  school  materials.  And  yet  that 
pile  on  Bwana’s  desk  seemed  to  grow  rather 
than  diminish. 

Yes,  the  natives  of  central  Africa  have  at 
last  awakened  from  their  long  sleep  of  il¬ 
literacy,  and  they  are  keenly  eager  for  every¬ 
thing  possible  they  can  secure  to  read.  What  a 
wide  open  door  of  opportunity  this  affords  the 
printing  press  to  preach  the  Gospel  message! 
So  far  the  threshold  of  this  door  has  barely 
been  crossed.  What  has  been  accomplished 
has  been  merely  the  touching  of  the  fringe 
of  all  that  yet  remains  to  be  done.  The  enemy 
of  souls  holds  on  tenaciously,  opposing  with 
desperate  struggle  every  encroachment  upon 
his  territory.  Yet  a  bridgehead  has  been  gained! 
Nineteen  main  churches  have  been  established, 
with  scores  of  district-chapels  branching  out 
from  them  like  spokes  of  a  giant  wheel.  And 
in  that  wheel  of  influence  for  Christ,  the  print¬ 
ing  press  has  become  one  of  the  most  vital 
cogs.  With  that  cog  at  Aba  worn  out  and 
completely  inadequate  to  carry  the  load  forced 
upon  it,  the  whole  structure  of  the  missionary 
program  has  received  a  crippling  blow; — and 
that  just  at  the  critical  stage  of  Congo’s  emerg¬ 
ence,  like  the  cocoon,  into  a  future  of  bright 
prospects.  It  is  the  strategic  moment  for  ad¬ 
vance,  not  retrenchment. 

THE  FUTURE 

Changing  conditions.  Government  require- 
10 


merits,  and  the  insistent  demands  of  the 
African  compel  the  press  work  onward  to  a 
greater  and  higher  standard  of  production. 

There  has  been  a  growing  gap  between  the 
literature  needs  and  the  rate  of  production  all 
over  the  mission  field.  To  close  that  gap  is  the 
salient  problem  confronting  not  only  the 
Congo  sphere,  but  the  Kenya  and  Tanganyika 
fields  also,  for  their  story  could  be  read  in 
general  the  same  as  the  foregoing  on  Congo 
with  but  few  alterations  of  facts  and  condi¬ 
tions  pertinent  to  their  private  growing  pains. 
It  has  seemed  wise  to  solve  this  literature  prob¬ 
lem  jointly,  rather  than  add  equipment  and 
personnel  to  the  four  scattered  printing  units 
throughout  these  fields,  all  of  which  at  present 
are  vitally  in  need  of  such.  Coordinated  effort 
would  enable  one  plant  to  be  established  with 
efficient,  and  sufficient,  up-to-date  printing 
equipment  to  meet  the  quantity  and  quality  of 
Christian  literature  needed  to  be  poured  over 
the  Africa  Inland  Mission  sphere  and  extended 
to  others  whose  needs  are  not  being  met. 

With  the  development  of  a  network  of  good 
transportation  and  communication  facilities, 
and  the  increasing  use  of  a  few  major  lan¬ 
guages  as  against  scores  of  local  dialects,  it 
seems  best  to  concentrate  production  at  a  cen¬ 
trally  located  publishing  plant.  This  could 
serve  with  a  great  saving  in  total  staff,  initial 
investment,  and  cost  of  production,  thereby 
more  adequately  speeding  out  the  Word  of 
God.  The  spot  for  this  forward  move  has  been 
chosen  with  special  consideration  to  transpor- 
11 


tation  of  raw  materials  inland,  and  then  their 
distribution  when  printed  to  the  fifty-two  main 
stations  established  during  these  past  fifty 
years  throughout  Kenya,  Tanganyika,  Uganda, 
Belgian  Congo  and  French  Equatorial  Africa. 
Buildings  will  have  to  be  erected  to  house  the 
extensive  printing,  binding,  and  photo-engrav¬ 
ing  equipment  needed.  Not  only  must  there  be 
the  place  with  buildings  and  equipment,  but 
a  minimum  of  two  missionary  couples  with 
suitable  qualifications  will  be  required  to  fully 
carry  the  work  and  maintain  continuity  during 
furlough  periods. 

The  burden  and  responsibility  falls  on  the 
shoulders  of  our  great  mission  family  of  prayer 
helpers  to  pray  into  being  this  projected  central¬ 
ized  publishing  plant  that  will  speedily  pour 
out  His  Word  in  great  quantities  over  these 
five  colonies  of  central  and  east  Africa. 

So  there  was  not  only  gladness  mingled 
with  sadness  in  contemplating  that  pile  of  jobs 
awaiting  printing,  but  there  was  a  twinge  of 
fear  in  Bwana’s  heart  too — fear  lest  there  be 
not  advance;  lest  like  the  disciples  in  Matthew 
14,  having  been  constrained  by  Jesus  to  "get 
into  a  ship  .  .  .  to  go  .  .  .  unto  the  other 
side,”  the  tossing  waves  of  difficulties  and  the 
contrary  winds  of  opposition  frustrate  the  ac¬ 
complishment  of  the  great  objective  set  by  the 
Lord.  To  that  troubled  cry  of  fear  as  they 
realized  the  "other  side”  was  still  not  reached 
and  it  the  "fourth  watch”  (that  period  just 
before  the  dawn  of  the  new  day)  the  Lord 
quieted  and  encouraged  with  His  blessed,  "Be 
12 


of  good  cheer.  Be  not  afraid.”  Today,  as  then, 
fear  is  banished  by  faith,  and  at  His  bidding, 
like  Peter,  the  impossible  is  attempted. 

Thousands  upon  thousands  are  still  sitting 
in  darkness  and  the  shadow  of  death,  emaci¬ 
ated  and  starved,  denied  the  Bread  of  Life. 
Will  the  enemy  of  their  souls  succeed  in  starv¬ 
ing  them  into  an  eternal  death?  God  is  able  to 
feed  them.  His  storehouse  is  full.  But  He 
needs  channels. 

"Shall  we  whose  souls  are  lighted 
With  wisdom  from  on  high; 

Shall  we  to  souls  benighted 
The  Lamp  of  Life  deny?” 

Herbert  and  Muriel  Cook. 


13 


Africa  Inland  Mission 

FIELDS  AND  STATIONS 


•  A.I.M,  STATIONS  SCALE  ©F  MILES  — -»w  BOUNDARIES 

@  IMPORTANT  TOWNS  .  -  RAILROADS 


The  triangle  on  the  map  above  shows  the  field  within 
which  the  work  of  the  Africa  Inland  Mission  is  con¬ 
centrated.  It  comprises  an  area  of  approximately 
300,000  square  miles  —  a  tract  of  land  as  large  as 
all  of  New  England,  New  York,  Pennsylvania,  New 
Jersey,  Delaware,  Maryland,  Virginia,  West  Virginia, 
and  Ohio.  Twenty-one  stations  are  located  in  Kenya, 
ten  in  Tanganyika,  nineteen  in  Congo,  two  in 
Uganda,  and  one  in  French  Equatorial  Africa.  With¬ 
in  reach  of  these  fifty-three  mission  stations  are  fifty 
or  more  tribes  of  Africans  to  whom  the  Mission  is 
endeavoring  to  give  the  light  of  the  gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ. 


Africa  Inland  Mission 

HEADQUARTERS 

373  Carlton  Avenue 
Brooklyn  5,  N.  Y. 


THE  HARRI N6T0N  PRESS 


God  so  loved  . 
The  field  is 
Go  ye  into  . 


Colors  indicate  predominant  religions  only 


Buddhist 

* 

Catholic,  Qreek,  Armenian, 

Abyssinian 

Catholic,  Roman 

Hindu 

Moslem 

Pagan 

Protestant 


Color  shadings  indicate  approximate  geographical  distribution  rather  than  numerical  distribution,  e.g.  Canada  is  actualy  one-third  Roman  Catholic  numerically. 


LATIN  AMERICA 

Population  133.000,000 
60,000,000  still  unevangelized 
1  missionary  to  55,000  population 

AFRICA 

Population  160,000,000 
60,000,000  still  unevangelized 
1  missionary  to  18,000  population 

INDIA  AND  PAKISTAN 

Population  437,000,000 
250,000,000  still  unevangelized 
1  missionary  to  101,000  population 

CHINA 

Population  462,000,000 
250,000,000  or  more  still  unevangelized 
Closed  to  Foreign  Missionaries,  except  For¬ 
mosa 


JAPAN 

Population  83,000,000 
50,000,000  still  unevangelized 
1  missionary  to  70,000  population 

CENTRAL  ASIA 

Population  34,000,000 

Afghanistan,  Baluchistan,  Nepal,  Bhutan, 
Sinkiang  (Chinese  Turkestan),  and  Russian 
Central  Asia  (six  Soviet  Socialist  Republics) 
almost  wholly  unevangelized  and  closed  to 
foreign  missionaries 


ISLAND  WORLD 

Population  90,000,000  (consisting  of  Malaysia, 
68,000,000;  Philippines  19,000,000;  1,500 

Pacific  Islands,  3,000,000) 

30,000,000  still  unevangelized 
1  missionary  to  75,000  population 

EUROPE 

Population  480,000,000  (including  European 
Russia) .  300,000,000  Professing  Catholics, 
Roman  and  Greek  Orthodox;  84,000,000 
Protestants;  100,000,000  Non-Christians. 
Communist  areas  are  closed  to  Foreign  Mis¬ 
sionaries 

Note:  Census  reports  have  been  used  where  avail¬ 
able;  Conflicting  estimates  were  averaged. 


*Da  'fyau  'Kwmv  ? 


THAT  there  are  2,400,000,000  people  in  the  world, 
half  of  whom  have  never  once  heard  the 
Gospel!  The  world’s  population  increases 
(over  the  death  rate)  by  109,000  a  day! 


THAT  two  fifths  of  the  world’s  population  is  now 
under  the  direct  domination  of  Communism, 


with  other  huge  populations  considerably 
influenced! 


THAT  the  zealous  Moslem  missionary  advance  in 
Africa  is  characterized  as  one  of  the  largest 
world  missionary  problems  confronting  the 
Church! 


THAT  if  the  people  of  China  were  to  march  past  a 
given  point  four  abreast,  the  line  would  never 
cease!  A  new  generation  would  have  grown 
up  by  the  time  the  old  one  passed! 

THAT  90%  of  India’s  and  Pakistan’s  population 
receive  only  30%  of  the  total  missionary  effort, 
or  one  missionary  for  every  313,000  souls  for 
an  interior  population  of  over  390  million! 

THAT  whole  Indian  tribes  in  South  America  are 
fast  being  annihilated  by  the  white  man’s  dis¬ 
eases,  without  once  having  heard  the  Gospel! 


THAT  there  are  not  more  than  22,000  active 
Protestant  foreign  missionaries  in  the  world 
—a  tragically  poor  output  of  over  190  million 
Protestants! 


THAT  5,000  of  the  Protestant  missionaries  of  the 
world  belong  to  the  Member  Missions  of  the 
Interdenominational  Foreign  Mission  Associ¬ 
ation  of  North  America. 


TUte  Jiayic 


MISSIONARY  APPEAL 


“A  country  at  war  declares  a  draft  of  man  power, 
in  terms  of  which  every  man  of  military  age  and 
fitness  is  conscripted  for  active  service.  The  norm 
is  to  go,  not  to  stay.  The  only  honorable  exempts 
from  going  are  those  disqualified  for  overseas  serv¬ 
ice  or  those  who  can  serve  their  country’s  cause 
better  by  remaining  at  home.  Exactly  so  should  it 
be  in  the  Church’s  missionary  war.” 

Robert  Hall  Glover 

“Why  should  anyone  hear  the  Gospel  twice  be¬ 
fore  everyone  has  heard  it  once?” 

Oswald  J.  Smith 

"While  vast  continents  still  lie  shrouded  in  mid¬ 
night  darkness,  and  hundreds  of  millions  still  suffer 
the  horrors  of  heathenism  and  Islam,  the  burden  of 
proof  rests  upon  you  to  show  that  the  circumstances 
in  which  God  has  placed  you  were  meant  by  Him 
to  keep  you  out  of  the  foreign  field.” 

Keith  Falconer,  of  Arabia 

“Even  on  the  low  ground  of  common  sense,  1 
seemed  called  to  be  a  missionary.  For  is  the  king¬ 
dom  not  the  great  harvest  field?  Then  I  thought  it 
only  reasonable  to  seek  the  work  where  the  work 
was  most  abundant  and  the  workers  were  fewest.” 

Gilmour,  of  Mongolia 

“If  10  men  are  carrying  a  log— nine  of  them  on 
the  little  end  and  one  on  the  heavy  end— and  YOU 
WANT  TO  HELP,  on  which  end  will  you  lift?" 

Borden,  of  Yale 

“Lord,  send  me  where  Thou  wilt,  only  go  with 
me;  lay  on  me  any  burden,  only  sustain  me;  cut 
any  cord  but  the  one  that  binds  me  to  Thy  cause, 
to  Thy  heart.” 


Titus  Coan,  of  Hawaii 


AFRICA  INLAND  MISSION 


Founded  in  1895  by  Peter  Cameron  Scott 


375  Carlton  Avenue,  Brooklyn  38,  New  York 


-  (As  of  Feb.  1,  1953) 

Six  fields  in  East  and  Central  Africa.  Over  430 
Missionaries.  More  than  3,500  national  workers. 
Among  60  tribes.  60  stations  —  2,000  out  stations. 
In  8  hospitals,  60  clinics  and  15  leprosaria.  3,260 
teachers  in  all  mission  schools  are  daily  reaching 
85,000  pupils.  Four  printing  plants  producing 
scriptures,  hymn  books,  lesson  materials  and  tracts. 

Information  and  Literature  sent  upon  request. 
Deputation  speakers  available. 


Issued  by  the  Interdenominational  Foreign  Mission  Association 
of  North  America.  Price  of  this  pamphlet  30  cent3  per  dozen. 
Single  copies  of  other  pamphlets  free.  Complete  set  35  cents. 
Address:  I.  F.  M.  A.,  1860  Broadway,  New  York  23,  New  York. 

O.S.A- 

THE  HARRINGTON  PRESS 


50-2-53 


14th  Printing  380,000 


i  Wsi 

"tya . , .  SvaayeCife  > 


An  evangelistic  safari  and  some  of  the  people  reached  fey  at 


.  .  .  cZVGMg&Cife 

MANY  Christians  who  are  faithful  in  their  missionary  interest  may  have  but  a 
vague  idea  of  what  the  evangelization  of  a  heathen  land  entails.  It  is  for  their 
benefit  that  the  Africa  Inland  Mission  presents  the  following  facts,  gathered  largely 
from  answers  to  a  questionnaire  sent  to  a  number  of  missionaries. 

What  types  of  people  ore  found  in  the  Mission's  sphere  of  responsibility? 

Within  the  central  area  of  Africa  over  which  the  mission  stations  are  scattered 
dwell  people  of  many  classes,  nationalities,  and  degrees  of  culture  —  people  controlled 
by  Great  Britain,  France,  and  Belgium  under  five  distinct  governmental  regimes.  Most 
of  the  population  belongs  to  the  black  race,  but  here  again  is  variety,  for  work  is  being 
carried  on  in  more  than  fifty  different  native  tribes,  with  distinctive  languages  and 
diverse  customs. 

In  one  tribe  types  may  differ  all  the  way  from  the  backward  bush-dweller. 

Page  Three 


clothed  in  skins,  leaves,  or  cheap  (usually  dirty) 
cotton  cloth,  to  the  sophisticated  African,  im¬ 
maculate  in  European  dress,  fluent  in  English  or 
French,  his  pockets  filled  with  shillings  or  francs 
earned  at  a  white  collar  job.  Between  these 
extremes  are  the  thousands  of  laborers,  who  have 
been  drawn  from  many  tribes  to  work  on  the 
great  tea  and  coffee  plantations  or  in  the  gold 
and  diamond  mines.  As  to  education,  many  are 
utterly  illiterate,  others  can  read  and  write,  while 
a  few  have  attained  to  college  standing.  And 
there  are  those  who,  by  their  proximity  to  gov¬ 
ernment  posts  or  trading  centers,  have  broken 
a  pigmy  with  his  drams  away  from  tiie  restraints  but  not  the  supersti¬ 

tions  of  their  tribes  and  have  added  to  their  own  sinful  practices  the  vices  of  the  white 


As  to  religious  beliefs,  the  majority  of  the  people  are  pagan,  worshiping  their 
ancestors,  a  host  of  evil  spirits,  or  even  Satan  himself.  Witch-doctors  are  the  mediums 


Page  Four 


between  them  and  the  spirit  world.  In  some  places  Mohammedanism  is  strong,  in  others 
Roman  Catholicism,  while  strange  cults  have  made  inroads  here  and  there. 

Scattered  among  the  native  peoples  are  increasing  numbers  of  outsiders,  each 
adhering  to  the  culture  of  his  own  land.  There  are  government  officials,  research 
workers  merchants,  and  settlers  from  the  ruling  European  countries.  Thousands  of 
traders  from  India,  as  well  as  educated  Sikhs,  have  entered  the  British  section.  In 
northeastern  Congo  many  of  the  tradesmen  are  Greeks  and  Cyprians. 

Faced  with  this  heterogeneous  multitude,  how  does  one  evangelize  them? 


When  the  work  began,  the  whole  burden  of  evangelism  rested  on  the  shoulders 
of  the  few  missionaries.  They  selected  a  site  in  the  interior  wilds,  and  piecing  together 
the  pattern  of  an  unwritten  language,  they  witnessed  as  best  they  could  to  the  heathen 
workmen  who  helped  them  to  erect  their  first  shelters  and  to  clear  their  first  gardens. 
As  they  mastered  the  native  tongues,  they  spread  by  every  possible  means  the  message 
of  salvation  through  the  blood  of  Jesus  Christ.  ,  .  . 

Now  the  missionaries  no  longer  stand  alone.  Working  shoulder  to  shoulder  with 
them  is  a  great  army  of  African  believers.  Improved  transportation  saves  traveling 
time.  Literacy  in  the  centers  of  civilization  has  opened  up  a  new  field  of  tract  distri- 

Page  Five 


bution  and  colportage  evangelism.  Large  village  concentrations  along  the  Congo 
motor  roads  have  made  the  people  easily  accessible  there.  But  essentially  the  methods 
of  reaching  souls  have  not  changed,  although  new  devices  such  as  visual  aid  and 
amplifying  systems  have  been  put  to  use. 

The  heathen  must  be  sought  in  his  village  and  given  the  Word  of  God.  Constant 
moving  among  the  people,  sitting  with  them  by  their  huts,  speaking  to  them  on  the 
path,  in  their  gardens,  around  their  campfires,  seeking  out  huts  where  sorrow  and 
sickness  have  come  —  all  afford  opportunities  for  personal  work.  The  African  con¬ 
vert  lives  and  testifies  before  his  relatives  and  friends.  Open-air  preaching  has  been  the 
means  of  winning  many  souls.  The  missionary  or  native  Christians,  or  both  together, 
hold  services  wherever  they  can  get  an  audience  —  in  the  villages,  in  the  mining 
camps  or  on  plantations,  at  the  markets,  at  funerals  or  weddings,  at  railroad  stations, 
at  trading  posts,  at  native  courts.  Regular  visitation  is  carried  on  in  native  soldiers’ 
barracks,  in  jails,  and  in  government  hospitals.  In  British  territory,  where  a  number 
of  schools  are  government  operated,  the  weekly  periods  for  religious  instruction  may 
be  turned  over  to  a  missionary. 

Away  from  the  main  stations,  where  a  regular  evangelistic  ministry  is  carried  on 
Page  Six 


in  the  church,  Sunday  school,  day  schools,  chil¬ 
dren's  meetings,  services  for  workmen  and  hos¬ 
pital  and  dispensary  patients,  are  many  preaching 
centers  and  bush  chapels,  manned  by  native  evan¬ 
gelists,  supervised  by  missionaries  and  native 
pastors.  Mixed  or  women’s  Bible  conferences 
which  are  held  at  these  places  often  are  the  means 
of  bringing  heathen  under  the  sound  of  the 
gospel.  Trips  are  made  to  unreached  areas  by 
missionaries  or  native  gospel  teams. 

in  what  manner  is  a  heathen  soul 
approached  with  gospel  truth? 

The  pagan  may  have  a  sense  of  ceremonial  uncleanness  which  antagonizes  the 
evil  spirits,  but  sin  against  a  holy  God  is  a  foreign  conception,  although  usually  he 
has  a  vague  belief  in  a  supreme  being.  Beginning  with  creation,  he  must  be  shown 
how  sin  entered  the  world,  what  sin  is,  the  seriousness  and  penalty  for  it.  Blood  sacri- 

Page  Seven 


A  Lendu  mourner.  Congo 


Page  Eight 


A  Christian  sehooSboy  with  his  Testament  in 
hos  hand  srsd  a  Save  far  the  L©rd  in  his 
heart  preaching  to  a  raw  heathen  audience 
in  a  tCaiik©  vfiiage  ©f  the  BeSgisn  C@n§©. 


fice  is  not  new  to  him,  but  he  must  be  shown  that  only  the  blood  of  the  Son  of  God, 
who  was  made  flesh  for  the  suffering  of  death,  is  efficacious  to  put  away  sin.  The  love 
of  God  in  such  a  provision  is  incomprehensible  to  him.  He  must  be  convinced  that 
he  is  included  in  it. 

Sometimes  the  heathen  will  turn  to  Christ  when  he  sees  the  uselessness  of  his 
own  gods,  or  the  fear  of  the  Spirits  has  made  his  life  so  miserable  that  he  is  won  by 
the  prospect  of  deliverance  by  One  mightier  than  they.  Telling  of  the  second  coming 
Christ  or  the  glories  of  heaven  attracts  others.  The  parables  or  incidents  from  the 
life  of  Christ  may  make  the  first  contact.  The  first  chapter  of  Romans  is  used 
effectively  in  bringing  heathen  to  understand  their  need.  John  1:12,  John  5:24,  and 
John  14  are  frequently  used  Scriptures. 

Does  response  come  by  individuals  or  by  groups? 

Mass  movements  toward  the  Lord  are  practically  unknown,  although  the  dream 
of  an  old  heathen  woman  once  brought  about  a  thousand  inquirers  to  one  of  the  Congo 
stations.  The  usual  way  that  souls  are  responding  to  the  gospel  is  one  by  one  in  a 
steady  increase  day  after  day.  Often  a  saved  individual  eventually  wins  his  entire 

Page  Nine 


Basukums  youths,  Tanganyika 

Page  Ten 


household  and  many  of  his  neighbors.  And  there  are 
cases  of  whole  families  or  little  groups  of  friends 
accepting  Christ  at  the  same  time.  Tribes  which  have 
been  most  open  are  the  Kikuyu,  Akamba,  Luo,  Basu- 
kuma,  Kakwa,  and  the  Lugbara.  The  nomadic  Masai, 
the  elusive  Pygmies,  the  Kamasia,  and  the  proud 
Azandes  still  are  very  difficut  to  win  to  the  Lord  in 
spite  of  years  of  labor  among  them. 

Is  response  greater  in  new  or  in  old  work? 

Answers  to  this  question  differed,  but  the  consen¬ 
sus  of  opinion  was  that,  while  a  new  work  often 
draws  crowds,  there  is  apt  to  be  a  falling  away  after 
the  first  curiosity  is  satisfied  or  when  those  who  have 
shown  interest  begin  to  realize  the  cost  of  disciple- 
ship.  But  as  converts  become  established  and  live  con¬ 
vincingly  before  their  fellows,  and  there  is  a  praying 


native  constituency  behind  the  evangelistic  effort,  heathen  prejudice  is  broken  down 
and  large  numbers  of  souls  are  added  to  the  church.  Yet  in  some  cases  the  incon¬ 
sistent  lives  of  professing  Christians  in  the  vicinity  of  an  old  station  make  work  more 
difficult  than  in  a  raw  heathen  community. 

What  does  the  new  convert  face? 

Violent  physical  persecution  was  the  experience  of  the  new  convert  in  the  early 
days,  but  now  it  is  not  so  common  except  in  the  treatment  of  young  girls  in  some 
parts  of  the  field.  In  fact  there  are  places  where  it  brings  prestige  to  be  counted  a 
mission  adherent  —  if  one  does  not  break  too  completely  with  the  old  ways.  Always 
there  is  pressure  from  the  clan  to  return  to  superstitious  practices,  especially  during 
illness.  The  Christian  is  cursed,  ridiculed,  tricked  into  making  sacrifices.  If  a  Lugbara, 
he  might  be  poisoned.  Young  people  are  forced  into  heathen  or  polygamous  marriages. 
Girls  and  women  may  be  deprived  of  food.  In  some  tribes  believers  have  been  dis¬ 
criminated  against  in  the  markets  or  deprived  of  property  rights.  Yet  thousands  have 
taken  their  stand  for  Christ  down  through  the  years. 


Page  Eleven 


What  proportion  of  professed  conversions  are  genuine? 

In  Africa  as  in  America,  there  are  those  who  make  a  lip  profession  without  a 
heart  possession  of  the  Saviour.  They  may  be  prompted  by  desire  for  some  material 
advantage  or  may  not  have  understood  the  real  issue.  Numerous  quick  professions  are 
but  a  gesture  of  courtesy  to  the  white  man.  People  think  he  expects  it,  and  they  want 
to  please  him.  Only  the  Lord  knows  who  are  truly  His,  but  it  might  be  safe  to  say 
that  between  a  quarter  and  a  third  of  the  professions  that  are  made  represent  a  new 
birth. 


Once  given  fhe  gospel,  why  do  the  heathen  reject  it? 

Deep  in  the  heart  of  man,  primitive  or  civilized,  is  the  love  of  sin  and  of  his 
own  wilk  which  is  the  underlying  cause  for  his  rejection  of  Christ.  Outward  causes 
may  differ.  Uppermost  among  the  reasons  offered  by  the  African  is  this:  Its  the 
white  man’s  religion;  it’s  not  for  us.”  The  standards  are  too  high  for  some.  They 
cannot  face  being  cut  off  from  tribal  life  or  giving  up  the  enjoyment  of  beer,  the 
dance,  or  plural  wives.  Fear  of  reprisal  from  neglected  spirit  powers  hinders  many. 

Page  Twelve 


Others  cannot  accept  the  message  at  its  face  value.  They  are  sure  that  the  mission¬ 
ary  has  an  ulterior  motive.  One  Tanganyika  tribe  finds  it  difficult  to  believe  in 
an  afterlife.  However,  such  an  objection  is  rare,  for  most  animistic  peoples 
have  definite  beliefs  regarding  the  existence  and  the  needs  of  those  who  have  died. 
Other  excuses  are:  "We’re  too  old.”  "It's  all  right  for 
our  children."  "If  the  affair  is  really  so  important,  why 
did  you  wait  so  long  to  tell  us?" 

What  are  the  present  encouragements  and  prob¬ 
lems  in  the  work  of  evangelism? 

In  the  work  of  evangelism  as  it  is  carried  on  today, 
the  outstanding  encouragement  is  the  zeal  for  soul-win¬ 
ning  and  opening  of  new  outposts  that  is  manifested  by 
African  Christians.  In  the  last  ten  or  fifteen  years  great 
numbers  of  girls  and  women  have  come  out  boldly  for 
Christ.  The  last  eight  years  have  seen  marvelous  open¬ 
ings  in  the  mining  camps.  Hunger  for  learning  among  Indian  mother  and  child 

Page  Thirteen 


African  youth  has  brought  more  of  them  under  the  influence  of  the  gospel.  There 
are  new  problems,  too.  Worldly  pleasures  and  the  unaccustomed  possession  of  cash 
have  hardened  many.  False  teaching  and  communist  propaganda  have  prejudiced  others. 

How  nearly  is  the  task  of  evangelism  finished  in  the  area  for  which  the 
Africa  Inland  Mission  is  responsible? 

In  most  of  the  territory  already  entered,  possibly  fifty  per  cent  of  the  people  have 
access  to  a  constant  gospel  testimony.  Half  of  these  may  have  an  intelligent  knowledge 
of  the  way  of  salvation  even  if  they  have  not  accepted  it.  But  there  are  places  where 
only  an  occasional  preaching  trip  has  been  made  or  which  are  totally  untouched. 
Outstanding  among  these  are  the  southern  section  of  the  Anglo-Egyptian  Sudan,  the 
forest  section  of  Congo,  the  islands  of  Lake  Victoria,  and  the  Masai  country  of 
Tanganyika.  These  and  other  unoccupied  areas  for  which  this  Mission  is  responsible 
embrace  a  population  of  at  least  a  half  a  million  people.  The  Asiatics  and  Europeans 
of  the  country  also  could,  for  the  most  part,  be  classed  among  the  unreached.  The 
need  is  urgent  for  sufficient  laborers,  both  black  and  white,  to  complete  the  impera¬ 
tive  task  of  evangelizing  Africa. 

Page  Fourteen 


OTHER  PAMPHLETS  IN  THESE  SERIES 


"I  Will  Build  My  Church” 

By  Love  Constrained  (Medical  Work) 

"Ye  Shall  Be  My  .  .  .  Daughters” 

The  African  at  School 

Free  copies  of  these  leaflets  may  be  obtained  by  writing  to  the 
Africa  Inland  Mission  Headquarters 


AFRICA  INLAND  MISSION 
373-375  Carlton  Avenue 
Brooklyn  5,  New  York 


p«\NTe0 


u.s.f- 


1  950 


OTHER  PAMPHLETS  IN  THESE  SERIES 


"Go  .  .  .  Evangelize” 

"I  Will  Build  My  Church” 

By  Love  Constrained  (Medical  Work) 
"Ye  Shall  Be  My  .  .  .  Daughters” 


Free  copies  of  these  leaflets  may  be  obtained  by  writing 
Africa  Inland  Mission  Headquarters 


rffticaa  at  Sc&aat 

NATIVE  drums  issue  their  come-to-schcol  orders  in  thunder  tones  across  the  tropical 
countryside.  Over  the  open  plain,  out  of  the  valleys,  from  the  forested  hills, 
black  feet  come  running.  A  metal  bell,  rung  with  energetic  hand,  calls  sharply  to 
attention  the  chattering  groups  of  young  folk  on  a  sunny  playground.  "Lift- right! 
///Aright!”  a  kinky-haired  teacher  shouts  in  labored  English  to  a  long  line  of  march¬ 
ing  boys  and  girls  as  they  file  through  the  schoolhouse  doors  in  column  formation. 
This  is  Africa— -the  Africa  of  1949 — its  youth  on  the  march  to  the  halls  of  learning. 

Civilization,  and  with  it  a  seemingly  unquenchable  thirst  for  knowledge,  is  fast 
possessing  what,  scarcely  a  generation  ago,  was  a  continent  of  primitive  or  savage 
peoples  hardly  conscious  that  a  world  outside  their  own  existed.  The  progress  of 
education  in  Africa  has  become  intertwined  with  the  work  of  missions  there.  The 
present  school  activity  of  the  Africa  Inland  Mission  was  the  subject  of  a  questionnaire 
sent  to  its  missionaries  on  furlough.  Their  answers,  which  are  the  source  of  the  infor¬ 
mation  presented  here,  are  representative  of  the  field  in  which  the  Mission  is  working. 

Page  Three 


The  Development  of  Mission  Schools 

To  understand  the  present  educational  situation,  it  is  necessary  to  take  a  back¬ 
ward  look  at  the  beginning  of  mission  schools  and  to  follow  their  development  for 
the  fifty-odd  years  since  the  establishing  of  the  first  interior  station  in  Kenya.  As  soon 
as  the  early  missionaries  had  acquired  a  sufficient  knowledge  of  the  local  vernacular, 
they  translated  Scripture  portions  into  the  languages  of  the  people.  But  the  people 
could  not  read  what  was  being  prepared  for  them.  In  fact,  they  never  before  had  so 
much  as  heard  that  there  was  such  an  accomplishment  as  reading.  Many  listened  to 
the  gospel,  and  some  of  them  believed.  How  could  these  believers  grow  in  grace 
and  in  the  knowledge  of  the  Lord  without  first-hand  access  to  the  Word  of  God? 
Thus,  for  the  sake  of  these  new  converts,  schools,  extremely  primitive  and  crude  at 
first,  came  into  being  almost  simultaneously  with  the  entrance  of  the  gospel.  Mis¬ 
sionaries  found  themselves  compiling  primers  for  the  use  of  those  who  came  to  learn. 
These  were  the  first  African  textbooks. 

Most  of  the  pupils  in  the  pioneer  days  were  older  men  and  boys.  There  were  few 
children  and  no  girls  at  all.  As  the  fame  of  the  “wisdom  of  paper”  grew,  however, 
even  heathen  fathers  brought  jteir  sons  to  be  taught  and  heathen  boys  whose  fathers 
Page  Four 


were  antagonistic  ran  away  from  home  to 
learn.  Here  was  fresh  soil  in  which  to  sow 
the  gospel  seed,  and  where  else  could  the 
missionary  find  such  an  opportunity  to  pre¬ 
sent  the  truth  to  the  same  souls  day  after 
day  and  line  upon  line?  Heathen  children 
were  encouraged  to  attend  school,  and  among 
those  who  did  so  for  several  years,  a  majority 
made  at  least  a  profession  of  faith.  Thus 
schools  began  to  be  considered  as  channels 
for  evangelism  and  are  so  regarded  by  many 
missionaries  to  the  present  day. 

When  school  enrollments  grew,  mission¬ 
aries  no  longer  could  handle  the  work  of 
teaching  alone.  The  older  and  brighter  pu¬ 
pils  were  pressed  into  service.  They  in  turn 
received  additional  training  to  fit  them  for  greater  usefulness.  As  believers  multiplied, 
Christian  parents  sent  their  children  to  school  in  increasing  numbers  and  girls  as  well 


Drums  at  the  village  school 


Page  Five 


as  boys  were  permitted  to  go  to  school.  These  boys  and  girls  were  still  young  when 
they  finished  the  very  elementary  work  which  was  all  that  the  schools  offered  then. 
This  fact,  coupled  with  the  need  for  more  extensive  basic  training  to  prepare  young 
people  for  Bible  school  and  Christian  service,  brought  about  a  gradual  expanding  of 

the  curricula  and  the 
addition  of  more  ad¬ 
vanced  grades.  In  time 
the  colonial  govern¬ 
ments  began  to  main¬ 
tain  schools  for  African 
children.  From  an  aca¬ 
demic  standpoint,  these 
schools  made  great  ad¬ 
vances,  offering  even 
college-level  work  in 
one  institution  in  Ugan¬ 
da.  However,  govern- 

Pupils  at  one  of  the  large  outschools  ment  schools,  especially 


Page  Six 


higher  schools,  are  entirely  inadequate  in  number,  and  missions  still  bear  much  of  the 
burden  of  educating  Africa’s  youth — -a  fact  which  presents  an  admixture  of  respon¬ 
sibility,  opportunity,  and  problems. 

Mission  Schools  of  the  Present  Day 

The  schools  of  all  A.I.M.  fields  can  be  divided  into  two  classes,  the  station  schools 
and  the  outschools.  A  missionary  is  the  teacher  in  charge  of  the  station  school, 
whereas  outschools  are  handled  by  African  teachers  with  missionary  inspection  or 
advice.  In  the  Congo  and  in  Tanganyika,  the  missionary  does  most  of  the  advanced 
teaching  in  the  classroom.  In  Kenya,  however,  his  position  is  that  of  a  supervisor. 
His  actual  teaching  is  confined  largely  to  English  and  Bible  and  that  only  in  the 
upper  grades.  There  also  the  outschool  teacher  is  more  highly  trained  in  secular  sub¬ 
jects  than  elsewhere  and  is  responsible  only  for  the  school  end  of  the  work,  while  in 
the  other  fields  the  duties  of  evangelist  and  teacher  are  combined.  There  the  so-called 
outschool  “teacher”  is  in  reality  an  evangelist  or  pastor  who  carries  on  a  small  ele¬ 
mentary  school  in  connection  with  his  church  or  as  a  means  of  contact  with  the 
people  m  the  pioneer  stage  of  the  work. 


Page  Seven 


Out  of  this  division  of  the  work  grows  the  method  by  which  the  teachers  are 
supported.  The  general  practice  in  all  fields  is  for  pupils  to  pay  a  small  entrance  fee, 
which  is  used  for  the  maintenance  of  the  school.  In  Kenya  the  salaries  of  the  African 
teachers  are  met  by  these  fees  and  by  supplementary  Government  grants  from  native 
tax  funds.  In  Tanganyika  and  in  Congo,  allowances  for  the  outstation  workers  come 
from  combined  church  and  school  funds,  but  most  of  the  African  assistants  who 
teach  in  the  station  schools  do  not  receive  their  remuneration  from  church  monies. 

Boarding  schools,  except  for  girls,  are  not  maintained  by  the  Mission  in  the  Brit¬ 
ish  dependencies.  However,  especially  in  Kenya,  provision  has  been  made  for  a  number 
of  boys  to  live  on  the  main  stations  while  going  to  school  if  their  homes  are  too 
far  away  for  them  to  make  the  daily  trip  to  the  station.  Included  among  them  are 
also  some  who  cannot  live  at  home  because  of  the  opposition  from  their  heathen 
relatives.  In  the  Belgian  Congo,  many  of  the  schools  are  boarding.  Co-education  has 
been  found  satisfactory  in  the  fields  where  the  native  peoples  have  become  adjusted 
to  the  customs  of  civilization.  Under  the  conditions  which  prevail  in  the  Congo,  it  has 
been  found  more  practical  to  teach  boys  and  girls  separately.  The  majority  of  those 
who  attend  the  mission  schools  there  are  in  their  middle  or  later  teens.  Elsewhere, 
children  of  fifteen  years  and  younger  now  make  up  the  largest  part  of  the  enrollment. 
Page  Eight 


RIGHT:  What  real  bay  as  not  fascinated  with 
tbs  carpenter's  bench  and  tocEs!  These  East 
African  bays  are  to  exception.  They  are  having 
a  good  time  as  they  fearn  how  to  use  fools  and 
to  fashion  useful  articles  with  them. 


LEFT :  It  is  recreation  time  for  this 
group  of  East  African  schoolboys. 
They  are  learning  to  make  signals 
with  their  flags. 


Page  Nine 


The  Situation  by  Fields 


Each  field  must  be  consid¬ 
ered  separately  as  to  its  school 
system  and  basic  problems.  In 
the  Congo,  there  is  no  educa¬ 
tion  outside  mission  channels, 
but  in  some  parts  it  is  compul¬ 
sory  for  the  village  children  to 
attend  existing  schools.  As  no 
two  Protestant  missionary  so- 
station  school  students  lined  up  fot  dosses  cieties  are  working  exactly  the 

same  territory,  there  is  a  large 
section  where  the  pupil  may  choose  only  between  Africa  Inland  Mission  and  Roman 
Catholic  schools.  Most  of  the  Mission’s  outschools  there  offer  little  more  than  Bible 
and  first-grade  reading,  writing,  and  arithmetic.  On  each  station  is  a  school  which 
covers  the  equivalent  of  three,  four,  or  five  grades,  adding  such  subjects  as  music, 
composition,  geography,  French,  and  more  advanced  types  of  Bible  study.  There  is 

Page  Ten 


no  Government  inspection  and  teachers  are  not  required  to  hold  certificates.  How¬ 
ever,  in  view  of  the  progress  and  the  problems  which  exist  now  in  the  other  fields  and 
as  a  preparation  for  meeting  similar  problems  when  they  arise  in  the  Belgian  terri¬ 
tory,  a  beginning  is  being  made  in  teacher  training  schools  to  provide  better  teachers 
as  assistants  in  the  Congo  schools. 

Tanganyika,  like  Congo,  is  divided  into  mission  spheres  for  Protestant  societies; 
but  unlike  Congo,  it  has  a  fairly  well  developed  system  of  Government  schools  in  the 
important  centers.  Several  of  these  offer  tenth  grade  work,  and  some  trade  or  pro¬ 
fessional  training  is  available.  Missionaries  have  the  privilege  of  conducting  with¬ 
out  restriction  weekly  Bible  classes  in  all  Government  schools,  and  this  opportunity 
is  being  taken  advantage  of  wherever  possible.  Away  from  towns,  children  have 
few  educational  opportunities  except  through  the  Mission,  which  maintains  small 
schools,  covering  first  and  second  grades,  in  connection  with  its  outstation  chapels. 
Central  station  schools  carry  their  students  through  the  fifth  grade  in  a  well-rounded 
program  which  emphasizes  regular  evangelistic  services,  but  follows  the  Government 
syllabus  pretty  closely  except  for  crafts.  Lack  of  trained  native  personnel  prevents 
the  introduction  of  higher  grades  in  Tanganyika  at  this  time.  The  central  schools 
are  open  to  inspection  by  the  Government,  which  requires  them  to  be  registered  and 

Page  Eleven 


to  be  supervised  by  a  registered  teacher,  either  missionary  or  African.  Missionaries, 
at  least  for  the  present,  may  be  registered  without  an  American  teacher’s  certificate 
if  they  can  produce  other  satisfactory  educational  credentials.  The  A.I.M.  work 
in  Tanganyika  still  is  lacking  in  certificated  African  teachers,  so  that  all  station 
schools  now  are  supervised  by  missionary  teachers,  although  much  of  the  teaching, 
especially  in  the  first,  second,  and  third  grades,  is  carried  on  by  native  assistants  many 
of  whom  are  very  capable  within  those  limits. 

Kenya  is  by  far  the  most  advanced  educationally  of  the  A.I.M.  fields.  The  Gov¬ 
ernment  system  is  highly  efficient,  and  some  sections  are  occupied  by  several  missionary 
societies  all  of  whose  schools  are  full  to  overflowing.  The  latter  are  required  to  meet 
Government  standards,  and  no  teaching,  even  in  outschools,  is  possible  without  a 
permit.  A  number  of  the  African  teachers  hold  certificates,  so  the  outschools  in 
Kenya  include  three  to  five  grades.  Two  A.I.M.  station  schools  in  the  Colony  provide 
training  through  the  eighth  grade,  others  to  the  fifth.  The  Government  is  becoming 
steadily  more  exacting  in  its  requirements  for  European  teachers  and  is  bringing  in¬ 
creased  pressure  on  missionary  societies  to  push  advanced  education.  There,  as  in 
Tanganyika,  Government  schools  are  wide  open  to  the  missionary  for  giving  weekly 
Bible  instruction  to  those  pupils  who  desire  it. 

Page  Twelve 


The  Educational  Problem  from  a  Spiritual  Angle 

There  is  little  doubt  that  the  Mission  has  come  to 
a  time  of  decision  in  the  matter  of  education.  Most  mis¬ 
sionaries  are  agreed  on  the  value  of  continuing  ele¬ 
mentary  Christian  schools,  especially  if  they  can  be 
run  by  trained  African  teachers  with  a  passion 
for  souls  and  a  concern  for  the  spiritual  growth 
of  saved  pupils.  It  is  a  sad  fact  that  many 
young  people  of  the  African  church  drift  away 
from  the  Lord  in  the  Government  institutions. 

It  is  also  a  fact  that  other  missionary  societies, 
some  of  which  propagate  false  doctrine  or 
condone  worldly  practices  among  their  adher¬ 
ents,  are  going  in  for  an  elaborate  program  of 
higher  education.  Lacking  other  opportunities, 
the  youth  of  the  land,  in  their  greed  for  knowl- 


Sammy  is  holding 
a  big  book  for  a 
little  boy,  but 
he  knows  how 
to  read  it. 


Page  Thirteen 


edge  will  flock  to  such  schools.  On  the  other  hand,  it  is  a  serious  question  how  far 
the  spiritual  interests  of  the  A.I.M.  would  be  served  by  further  advance  in  the  educa¬ 
tional  field.  There  is  danger  also  of  future  Government  limitations  which  would 
hinder  the  missionary  in  maintaining  an  out-and-out  Christian  program. 

The  Challenge  of  the  Immediate  Future 

Throughout  the  field,  consideration  is  being  given  to  the  opening  of  a  few  cen¬ 
trally  placed  schools  ranging  from  eighth  to  twelfth  grade  according  to  the  advance¬ 
ment  of  the  people  in  the  locality.  The  workers  believe  that,  should  sucn  a  plan  be 
followed,  the  enrollment  should  be  restricted  to  Christians  of  proven  faithfulness 
or  even  to  those  who  are  definitely  committed  to  places  of  Christian  leadership  as 
pastors,  evangelists,  and  teachers.  Whatever  policy  may  be  adopted  teacher  train¬ 
ing  is  a  pressing  need  of  the  moment,  for  existing  schools  must  be  staffed  with  Afri¬ 
cans  who  can  carry  greater  responsibility  than  at  present.  The  possioility  or  going 
ahead  with  such  training  is  dependent  upon  the  addition  to  the  field  personnel  of  an 
adequate  number  of  certificated  missionary  teachers  who  are  also  Bible  trained  and 
at  one  with  the  principles  of  the  African  Inland  Mission. 

Page  Fourteen 


A  group  of  African  outsehooO  teaeher-evarsgeiists 


Cover  Picture  —  British  Official  Photo 


AFRICA  INLAND  MISSION 
373-375  Carlton  Avenue 
Brooklyn  5,  New  York 


1®S0 


The  Interdenominational  Foreign 
Mission  Association  of  North 
America  was  founded  in  1917  as 
a  fellowship  of  foreign 
missionary  societies  without 
denominational  affiliation. 

Relying  upon  God  through  faith 
and  prayer  for  the  provision  of 
their  needs,  they  seek  to  present 
a  strong,  united  testimony  for 
the  complete  and  speedy 
evangelization  of  the  world. 

Over  4,500  missionaries  serve 
under  its  Member  Missions 
in  all  major  fields  of  the  world. 

Interdenominational  Foreign  Mission  Association 

Founded  in  1917 

1860  BROADWAY  NEW  YORK  23,  N.Y. 


THE  MISSIONARY  CALL 


"What  constitutes  a  missionary  call?”  "How 
may  I  know  whether  I  am  called  to  be  a  mis¬ 
sionary?”  Perhaps  no  questions  are  more  con¬ 
stantly  asked  by  earnest  young  Christians  in 
Bible  institutes  and  missionary  conferences 
than  these.  And  not  without  good  reason,  for 
they  are  admittedly  important  questions.  Noth¬ 
ing  could  be  more  vital  for  any  person  setting 
out  for  the  mission  field  than  to  be  clearly 
assured  of  the  call  and  leading  of  the  Lord  in 
taking  that  step.  Without  such  assurance  one 
would  be  exposed  to  distressing  doubts  and  to 
the  subtle  insinuations  of  the  Evil  One  in  fac¬ 
ing  the  many  difficulties  and  severe  trials  which 
are  inseparable  from  missionary  life  and  labor. 

Yes,  one  needs  to  be  unmistakably  sure  of 
the  call  of  God  to  missionary  service.  But  the 
vital  point  is  to  look  in  the  right  direction  for 
the  missionary  call.  For  it  must  be  said  that 
there  is  a  lot  of  fog  and  illusion  and  false 
sentiment,  and  at  times  also  evasion  and  self- 
deception,  about  this  question.  One  person  does 
not  feel  called,  while  another  does  feel  called, 
and  both  of  them  may  be  alike  mistaken. 

What,  then,  is  the  true  nature  and  the  right 
basis  of  a  missionary  call?  We  have  no  set 
formula  or  patent  prescription  to  offer,  but  we 
turn  with  this  problem,  as  with  every  other, 
to  the  Word  of  God  for  a  solution.  And  in 
this  instance  let  us  turn  in  particular  to  the 

3 


book  of  Acts  as  the  God-given  handbook  of 
guidance  in  all  matters  pertaining  to  the  Chris¬ 
tian  missionary  enterprise.  We  believe  that  the 
Macedonian  vision  and  call  given  to  the  apostle 
Paul  furnishes  a  clear  and  satisfactory  model 
for  a  missionary  call  today.  Let  us  then  open 
our  Bibles  at  Acts,  chapter  16,  and  note  the 
narrative  and  its  teaching. 

Paul  and  his  colleagues  were  no  slackers, 
no  selfish,  worldly  Christians,  but  earnest,  de¬ 
voted  witnesses  and  workers  for  the  Lord.  Had 
they  been  otherwise  they  would  not  have  heard 
the  call  when  it  was  given.  The  trouble  with 
those  who  say  they  have  never  had  a  missionary 
call  may  be  that  they  are  living  too  far  away 
from  the  Lord  to  hear  Him  when  He  does  call. 
Yet  Paul,  foremost  Christian  of  his  day  though 
he  was,  had  never  lifted  up  his  eyes  to  see 
beyond  the  confines  of  his  own  continent.  And 
so  he  was  about  to  start  out  upon  another 
Gospel  tour  in  home  territory  which  he  had 
already  covered  before.  But  God  halted  him, 
gave  him  a  vision  of  a  land  and  need  farther 
out,  and  called  him  from  the  home  field  to 
become  a  foreign  missionary.  Let  us  first  take 
that  lesson  to  heart. 

Next  let  us  note  that  that  vision  which 
came  to  Paul  was  a  two-fold  one. 

1.  It  was  a  heavenly  vision.  It  came  from 
God,  and  was  a  revelation  of  God’s  will,  of 
what  God  wanted  done.  And  so  later  on  we 
find  Paul  testifying  that  "I  was  not  disobedient 
unto  the  heavenly  vision”  (Acts  26:19).  Now 
that  is  for  us  the  first  aspect,  and  a  most  vital 
4 


one,  of  the  true  missionary  call.  How  are  we 
to  get  it?  Are  we  to  expect  and  wait  for  the 
heavens  to  open,  as  in  Paul's  case,  and  such  a 
vision  to  be  seen,  and  such  a  voice  to  be  heard, 
as  he  saw  and  heard?  No,  God  does  not  need 
to  deal  with  us  now  in  this  way,  for  He  has 
given  us  His  Word,  through  which  He  re¬ 
veals  His  will  and  speaks  to  us.  As  someone 
has  well  said,  the  missionary  call  is  not  so 
much  a  voice  as  a  verse. 

We  have,  for  instance,  such  plain  statements 
as  that  "God  so  loved  the  world i”;  that  "the 
field  is  the  world"-,  that  Jesus  is  "the  light  of 
the  world " ;  that  God  is  "not  willing  that  any 
should  perish,  but  that  all  should  come  to 
repentance".  We  are  told  that  " whosoever  shall 
call  upon  the  name  of  the  Lord  shall  be  saved”, 
and  then  follows  that  solemn  and  convicting 
series  of  "Hows”  that  affirm  that  only  through 
the  preaching  of  the  Gospel  can  men  anywhere 
hear,  believe,  call  upon  the  name  of  the  Lord, 
and  be  saved.  (See  Rom.  10:13-15).  And 
these  are  but  a  few  of  a  multitude  of  Scripture 
texts  which  convey  the  same  truths,  namely, 
man’s  universal  sin  and  need  of  salvation, 
God’s  provision  for  all  men  in  Christ,  and  the 
Gospel  as  the  only  means  of  escaping  eternal 
doom  and  obtaining  eternal  life.  Finally  there 
is  the  Great  Commission,  Christ’s  "marching 
orders”  to  the  Church,  repeated  five  times, 
which  commands  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel 
to  every  creature,  the  evangelizing  of  all  nations, 
the  bearing  witness  to  Him  unto  the  uttermost 
part  of  the  earth. 


5 


Surely  the  Lord  has  thus  made  unmistakably 
plain  what  He  expects  of  His  Church,  and  the 
implication  to  every  member  of  that  Church  is 
inescapable,  namely,  that  he  accept  and  carry 
out  his  personal  share  of  the  responsibility  and 
task. 

2.  It  was  an  earthly  vision.  That  "man  of 
Macedonia”,  so  vividly  portrayed  before  Paul’s 
eyes,  was  God's  way  of  bringing  to  his  atten¬ 
tion  a  land  and  people  yonder  in  Europe  in 
desperate  and  unrelieved  spiritual  need.  Mace¬ 
donia  had  her  art,  philosophy,  and  religion; 
her  schools  and  temples;  her  poets  and  sages; 
and  much  else  of  which  she  might  be  proud. 
But  Macedonia  had  no  Gospel,  no  saving  mes¬ 
sage.  Macedonia  needed  Jesus  Christ,  and  the 
mute  appeal  of  that  vision  was  "Come  over  .  ,  . 
and  help  us”. 

Are  not  the  heathen  and  Moslem  lands  of 
the  world  today  the  modern  counterpart  of 
Macedonia  in  Paul’s  day?  China,  India,  Japan, 
and  other  countries  have  much  that  is  worthy 
and  commendable  in  their  national  history, 
their  literature,  their  arts  and  industries,  their 
vast  store  of  empirical  knowledge  along  many 
lines.  But  they  have  no  Gospel,  no  saving 
message,  except  it  be  taken  them  from  the 
God-favored  lands  of  the  West.  Civilization 
will  not  meet  their  spiritual  need,  nor  will 
education,  nor  anything  else  except  the  Chris¬ 
tian  Gospel.  They  need,  they  must  have  Jesus 
Christ.  We  Christians,  and  only  we,  can  supply 
that  need. 

Now  if  you  will  put  together  these  two 
6 


aspects  of  the  Macedonian  vision,  the  heavenly 
and  the  earthly,  you  have  the  true  basis  of  a 
genuine,  a  scriptural  missionary  call.  Such  a 
call  rests  not  on  feeling,  or  sentiment,  but  on 
fact — the  fact,  first  of  GOD’S  WILL  as  re¬ 
vealed  in  the  Word,  and  then  the  fact  of 
HUMAN  NEED  as  revealed  in  the  world. 
Only  upon  an  honest  and  serious  consideration 
of  these  two  great  facts  can  any  Christian  reach 
an  intelligent  and  conscientious  decision  as  to 
where  and  what  his  part  is  in  helping  to  carry 
out  the  one  great  business  of  the  Church  of 
Christ  on  earth,  the  giving  of  the  Gospel  to  all 
mankind. 

It  is  impressive  to  note  the  effect  of  that 
Macedonian  vision  upon  Paul  and  his  compan¬ 
ions.  Verse  10  reads:  “After  he  had  seen  the 
vision,  immediately  we  endeavored  to  go  into 
Macedonia,  assuredly  gathering  that  the  Lord 
had  called  us  for  to  preach  the  gospel  unto 
them.” 

"After  he  had  seen  the  vision”  simply  means 
after  God  had  brought  to  Paul’s  attention  facts 
which  he  had  never  before  considered.  There 
in  another  continent  was  a  land  which  as  yet 
had  not  had  its  first  opportunity  to  hear  of  the 
only  Saviour,  while  he  was  proposing  to  go 
again  to  people  who  had  already  heard.  Not 
that  all  of  them  had  accepted  the  message,  or 
even  that  every  individual  in  either  Asia  or 
Bithynia  had  been  contacted.  But  they  had  at 
least  to  some  extent  been  enlightened,  while 
not  a  ray  of  Gospel  light  had  reached  Mace¬ 
donia.  And  so  the  Spirit  of  God  cried,  “Fair 
7 


play.  No  partiality.  No  premium  upon  souls 
in  Asia  and  discount  upon  souls  in  Europe,  but 
equal  opportunity  to  hear  the  Gospel,  equitable 
distribution  of  the  Bread  of  Life  to  souls 
equally  lost  and  needy,  and  for  all  of  whom 
alike  Christ  died.”  And  He  is  saying  the  same 
to  Christians  today  in  our  land  of  Gospel 
light  and  privilege  concerning  the  unevangel¬ 
ized  millions  across  the  sea.  The  facts  about 
the  heathen  world  which  we  well  know,  or 
can  readily  learn  if  we  want  to  know  them, 
are  the  finger  of  God  pointing  out  our  respon¬ 
sibility  and  duty. 

"Immediately”  speaks  of  prompt  response  to 
the  voice  of  the  Spirit:  no  dilly-dallying,  no 
procrastination,  but  beginning  at  once  to  act 
when  the  voice  of  God  has  been  heard.  Oh  the 
spiritual  tragedies  we  could  cite  as  a  result  of 
postponing  the  doing  of  God's  revealed  will ! 

"We  endeavored  to  go”  expresses  a  genuine 
purpose  and  honest  effort  to  go,  which  is  so 
different  from  that  passive  "willingness”  which 
so  many  young  people  have  professed,  without 
treating  the  matter  seriously  and  taking  any 
practical  steps  toward  going.  Obstacles  in  the 
way  are  not  to  be  regarded  as  indicating  that 
it  is  not  the  Lord’s  will  for  one  to  go,  for 
such  obstacles  are  often  both  the  devil’s  at¬ 
tempt  to  hinder  and  the  Lord’s  test  of  the 
sincerity  and  strength  of  one’s  purpose. 

"Assuredly  gathering  that  the  Lord  had  called 
us  .  .  .”  Note  carefully  this  statement.  "Assur¬ 
edly  gathering”  is  not  the  language  of  emotion 
or  sentiment,  but  rather  of  thoughtful  reason- 
8 


ing  and  logical  conclusion.  So  many  seem  to 
think  of  a  missionary  call  as  purely  emotional, 
but  this  is  a  mistaken  idea.  God  can,  if  He  so 
chooses,  guide  us  through  our  emotions,  which 
He  has  given  us.  But  He  can  just  as  truly  lead 
us  through  our  reasoning  faculties,  when  these 
are  surrendered  to  Him.  He  did  so  with  Paul 
in  the  instance  before  us.  The  shutting  of  two 
doors  in  succession,  and  then  the  facts  about 
Macedonia  brought  so  strikingly  to  his  atten¬ 
tion,  led  him  and  his  companions  to  conclude 
("assuredly  gather")  that  the  Lord  was  lead¬ 
ing  in  that  direction.  Nor  were  they  mistaken, 
as  the  sequel  clearly  proved. 

It  was  this  same  logic  of  facts  that  appealed 
to  James  Gilmour,  pioneer  missionary  of  Mon¬ 
golia.  Said  he:  "To  me  the  question  was  not 
'Why  go?’  but  rather  Why  not  go?’  Even  on 
the  ground  of  common  sense  I  seemed  called 
to  be  a  missionary.  For  is  the  kingdom  not  a 
great  harvest  field?  Then  I  thought  it  only 
reasonable  to  seek  the  work  where  the  work 
was  most  abundant  and  the  workers  were 
fewest". 

Now,  as  to  where  the  place  and  what  the 
part  is  in  God’s  world-wide  work  for  each 
reader  of  this  message,  we  do  not  presume  to 
say.  But  we  are  confident  that  the  true  and 
sure  way  for  every  honest  Christian,  fully  sur¬ 
rendered  to  the  Lord  and  without  any  reserva¬ 
tion  of  mind,  to  discover  this  is  upon  the  basis 
we  have  indicated,  namely,  the  plan  of  God  as 
revealed  in  His  Word,  and  the  measure  in 
which  that  plan  has  been  carried  into  effect 
9 


across  the  world.  Moreover,  we  believe  that 
upon  this  basis  the  normal,  the  logical  course 
for  every  Christian  whose  age,  health,  qualifi¬ 
cations,  and  circumstances  admit  of  it  is  to  offer 
for  foreign  missionary  service. 

Military  service  affords  a  fitting  parallel. 
This  country  at  war  declares  a  draft  of  man 
power,  in  terms  of  which  every  man  of  mili¬ 
tary  age  and  fitness  is  conscripted  for  active 
service.  The  norm  is  to  go,  not  to  stay.  The 
only  honorable  exempts  from  going  are  those 
disqualified  for  overseas  service  or  those  who 
can  serve  their  country’s  cause  better  by  re¬ 
maining  at  home.  Exactly  so  should  it  be  in  the 
Church’s  missionary  war.  In  view  of  Christ’s 
imperative  "GO"  and  the  overwhelmingly 
greater  need  in  the  foreign  fields  than  at  home, 
loyalty  to  Him  and  love  for  lost  souls  consti¬ 
tute  a  compelling  claim  upon  all  Christians 
who  are  able  to  "GO”  in  person,  and  upon  all 
others  to  "GO"  by  prayer  and  by  purse  to  the 
full  measure  of  their  ability. 

Just  one  point  more.  "Am  I  not  to  expect  a 
special  personal  call  to  some  particular  field 
and  sphere?”  someone  asks.  Yes,  when  you 
are  eligible  for  such.  But  those  only  are  eligible 
v/ho  have  taken  the  proper  attitude  of  accept¬ 
ance  of  the  general  call  and  placed  themselves 
unreservedly  at  the  Lord’s  disposal.  Just  as  in 
the  matter  of  salvation,  you  did  not  see  your 
individual  name  in  the  Gospel  invitation,  but 
you  saw  the  term  "whosoever”,  and  when  you 
accepted  that  call  the  Holy  Spirit  particularized 
it  to  you,  giving  you  the  assurance  of  salvation, 
10 


so  when  you  accept  and  respond  to  the  general 
call,  or  command,  of  the  Great  Commission, 
you  become  a  candidate  for  a  personal  call  to 
some  particular  field  and  post,  and  the  Holy 
Spirit  will  duly  give  you  this  as  you  wait  upon 
Him  for  it.  We  could  cite  literally  hundreds 
of  instances  of  this  in  our  own  observation. 
The  Lord  will  not  keep  in  darkness  concerning 
His  specific  will  and  plan  any  yielded  and 
trusting  child  of  His.  His  promises  such  as 
Psalm  32:8;  25:9;  Jno.  7:17  and  many  others 
give  ample  assurance  of  this.  Guidance  will 
come,  clear  and  certain,  in  His  own  time  and 
way.  But  only  when  we  can  say  with  Eliezer 
of  old,  "I  being  in  the  way”,  can  we  add,  "the 
Lord  led  me”  (Gen.  24:27). 

There  is  nothing  more  vitally  important  than 
to  know  the  will  of  God  for  your  life;  and 
there  is  no  joy,  or  peace,  or  satisfaction  so 
great  as  to  be  completely  in  that  will  and  in 
His  appointed  place  for  you  in  His  blessed 
service. 

"Lord,  what  wilt  thou  have  me  to  do?" 


11 


AFRICA  INLAND  MISSION 

Founded  in  I  895  by  Peter  Cameron  Scott 

375  Carlton  Avenue,  Brooklyn  38,  New  York 

(As  of  May  1,  1952) 

Six  fields  in  East  and  Central  Africa.  Over  409 
Missionaries.  More  than  3,500  national  workers. 
Among  60  tribes.  60  Stations  —  2,000  out  stations. 
In  8  hospitals,  60  clinics  and  15  leprosaria.  3,260 
teachers  in  all  mission  schools  are  daily  reaching 
85,000  pupils.  Four  printing  plants  producing 
scriptures,  hymn  books,  lesson  materials  and  tracts. 


Information  and  Literature  sent  upon  request. 
Deputation  speakers  available. 


Meet  Big  Peanuts  of  the 


By  Lucilda  A.  Newton 

ASTRANGE  sound  came  from  behind  the  little 
round  mud  hut.  It  could  be  a  cow  mooing,  or 
a  sheep  bleating,  or  a  dog  barking,  for  there  was 
a  cattle-pen  back  there.  It  was  made  of  big  logs 
and  sharp,  prickly  thorns,  and  the  cattle  were  kept 
in  it  when  there  was  no  one  to  take  them  out  to 
graze  on  the  hot,  grassy  plain. 

The  strange  sound  came  again.  But  it  d:dn’t 
sound  at  all  like  a  big  cow.  It  didn't  sound  like  a 
woolly  sheep,  either,  and  it  certainly  didn't  sound 
like  a  fierce  dog!  It  sounded  more  like  a  wee,  wee 
lamb  crying  for  its  mother. 

And  then  from  the  cattle-pen  came  a  very  old- 
looking  woman.  Her  thin  black  body  was  covered 
with  just  a  torn  cloth,  and  her  arms  and  neck  were 
covered  with  strings  from  which  dangled  a  great 
many  queer  things  like  bits  of  bone  and  hair,  and 
leopards'  teeth.  These  were  meant  to  act  as  charms 
to  protect  her  against  harm  and  danger.  In  her 
arms  she  held  a  handsome  brand-new  black  baby 
boy.  He  was  crying,  and  it  sounded  for  all  the 
world  like  a  wee,  wee  lamb  crying  for  its  mother. 

Yes,  this  little  black  boy  had  been  making  that 
strange  sound  out  in  the  cattle-pen  behind  the 
little  round  mud  hut. 

The  black  mother  and  father  were  very  happy 


about  the  arrival  of  this  baby  boy.  And  the  old 
grandmother  was,  too.  What  should  they  call  him? 
Joy?  No,  indeed,  for  then  the  evil  spirits  that 
were  always  trying  to  harm  babies  —  and  grown¬ 
ups,  too  —  would  know  that  they  loved  the  baby 
and  would  kill  him  for  sure.  They  couldn’t  run 
that  risk.  It  would  be  better  to  call  him  Trouble 
or  Unwanted  or  something  like  that ! 

It  was  June  when  the  baby  was  born,  and  the 
corn  and  the  rice  and  the  millet  were  all  getting 
ripe.  The  potatoes  were  growing  bigger  and  bigger. 
And  that  very  week  they  had  stored  away  baskets 
and  baskets  full  of  delicious  new  peanuts.  Peanuts 
were  bigger  and  better  than  usual  that  year. 

Father  sat  by  the  door  of  the  little  round  mud 
hut  thinking  over  all  the  work  of  the  past  week, 
and  thinking,  too,  about  the  new  little  baby.  He 
was  really  thinking  very  hard  about  a  name  for 
him.  Suddenly  he  said, 

“What  have  we  been  doing  all  week  ?  We’ve 
been  pulling  up  peanuts,  and  carrying  peanuts, 
and  selling  peanuts.  I’ve  seen  peanuts  all  day  and 
dreamed  about  them  at  night  and  we  shall  be  eat¬ 
ing  them  all  year.  The  baby’s  name  shall  be  Pea¬ 
nuts  —  Big  Peanuts!” 

“Indeed,  that  is  a  very  fine  name,”  said  both 
the  baby’s  mother  and  the  baby’s  grandmother. 
And  that  is  what  they  called  him. 

Rat-a-tat-tat,  rat-a-tat-tat  —  the  drum  call  rolled 
out  over  the  hot  dusty  plain,  and  in  the  little 
round  mud  homes,  slates  and  books  were  quickly 
collected,  and  the  little  black  feet  and  big  black 
feet  followed  the  winding  paths  climbing  up,  up 
the  hill  toward  the  big  mud  schoolhouse. 

It  was  the  first  day  of  school  again.  How  glad 
all  the  people  were  to  hear  that  drum  call  !  They 
hurried  into  the  big  room,  seated  themselves 
di-di-di  [very,  very  close  together]  on  the  mud 
brick  benches,  sang  loudly  the  opening  song,  slyly 
peeked  into  their  readers  while  the  Bible  was  be¬ 
ing  read,  bowed  their  kinky  black  heads  during 
the  short  prayer,  and  then  scampered  away  to 
their  classrooms  like  little  black  ants  suddenly 
released  from  a  sugar  jar. 

Standing  at  the  hole  in  the  wall  they  called  a 
window,  was  a  black  man  dressed  in  the  single 


looked  happy  when  they  spoke  that  name.  Oh, 
there  was  so  much  to  learn  in  school,  but  to¬ 
morrow  was  coming,  and  the  next  day,  and  the 
next,  and  he  would  find  out  all  about  these  things 
for  had  not  Father  paid  twenty  precious  cents  at 
the  school  so  that  Big  Peanuts  could  learn  for  a 
whole  year? 

So  Big  Peanuts  lay  down  that  night  on  the 
hard  mud  floor,  covered  over  with  his  nice  new 
cloth,  and  dreamed  new  dreams  in  which  he,  Big 
Peanuts,  was  standing  with  a  black  book  in  his 
hands  reading  to  a  great  crowd  of  boys  and  girls. 
He  was  reading  that  sweet  new  name  he  had 
heard  in  school  that  day  —  Yesu. 

( Copyright  for  above  material  is  held  by  the 
Moody  Press,  Chicago,  used  here  by  permission.) 


MORE  ABOUT  BIG  PEANUTS 

in  the  book  which  bears  his  name, 
written  by  Lucilda  A.  Newton,  an 
A.  I.  M.  missionary  in  Tanganyika 
Territory.  Get  the  book  and  find 
out  how  Big  Peanuts  lived  in  the 
village  before  he  came  to  the  mis¬ 
sion  station,  and  how  he  and  his 
two  little  brothers  let  the  Lord 
Jesus  into  their  hearts  and  learned 
to  love  him.  All  of  them  are  real  and  not  imaginary 
characters. 

Not  only  is  the  book  written  in  captivating 
style  for  juniors.  It  presents  the  plan  of  salvation 
so  clearly  that  some  young  readers  have  been 
known  to  let  the  Lord  into  their  hearts  because  of 
it.  Used  individually,  its  chapters  are  excellent 
story-time  material  for  Bible  clubs  and  Sunday 
schools. 

Big  Peanuts  is  published  by  the  Moody  Press, 
153  Institute  Place,  Chicago  10,  Ill.  Order  it  from 
your  nearest  Christian  bookstore,  from  Moody 
Press,  or  from  A.  I.  M.  Headquarters.  Paper. 
Illustrated.  Price  50  cents. 

AFRICA  INLAND  MISSION 
375  Carlfsn  Avenia©  Br©®kSyn  5,  New  Ymk 


THERE S 


*«*!"■«* 


JUtd 


t4*e  YOU 


'P’Uiyitty  ? 


'P'UUf&l- THE  ESSENTIAL  PREPARATION  FOR  MISSIONARY  ADVANCE 

Special  Prayer  Requests 


A  plea  is  hereby  made  for  the  setting  apart  daily  of 
some  definite  time,  if  only  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  to 
plead  the  following: 

1.  For  the  continued  mighty  working  of  God  in  all 
fields  where  missionaries  are  at  work. 

2.  For  the  proclamation  of  the  gospel  in  all  lands, 
that  it  may  result  in  the  salvation  of  many. 

3.  For  God’s  blessing  upon  the  Bibles,  scripture  por¬ 
tions,  tracts,  and  other  Christian  literature  already 
in  the  hands  of  the  people,  that  they  may  be  read, 
understood,  and  heeded;  for  all  engaged  in  Bible 
translation  or  in  production  of  Christian  literature. 

4.  For  the  gospel  seed  that  has  been  sown  in  past 
days  and  now  lies  dormant  in  many  hearts,  that 
the  Holy  Spirit  may  bring  it  to  mind  and  make  it 
fruitful. 

5.  For  Christian  hospitals,  dispensaries,  leprosariums, 
orphanages,  and  all  benevolent  institutions,  that 
they  may  be  made  spiritually  fruitful  while  meet¬ 
ing  physical  needs. 

6.  For  the  national  churches  and  Christians,  that 


they  may  continue  to  grow  in  grace,  to  witness, 
and  to  win  souls  for  Christ. 

7.  For  Bible  schools  and  seminaries  at  home  and 
abroad;  for  special  work  among  children  and 
young  people. 

8.  For  a  vigorous  advance  on  all  fields  into  unoccu¬ 
pied  territory,  with  the  aim  of  extending  the 
gospel  witness  with  all  possible  speed  to  the  yet 
unreached  millions  of  mankind. 

9.  For  provision  of  transport  facilities  and  funds  for 
passage  for  workers  to  all  fields. 

10.  For  sympathetic  cooperation  of  home  governments 
in  granting  passports,  permits,  and  visas  for  out¬ 
going  workers. 

11.  For  divine  guidance  for  missionary  societies  in  se¬ 
lecting  and  sending  out  new  recruits  of  high 
quality,  spiritually,  and  in  every  other  particular, 
able  to  give  effective  service  in  this  new  day  of 
unprecedented  opportunity. 

12.  For  happy  relationships  and  effective  cooperation 
between  missionaries  and  the  rapidly  developing 
indigenous  churches. 


'ZVeeMy 

f 

if 

-n 

— H 

m 

SUNDAY 

United  States,  Canada,  Alaska,  Great 
Britain,  Australia,  Europe,  Home  Church 
and  Mission  Boards  and  Councils. 

MONDAY 

India,  Burma,  Siam,  Malaya,  French 
Indo-China. 

TUESDAY 

China,  Tibet,  Mongolia,  Japan,  Korea, 

Soviet  Russia. 

WEDNESDAY 

Africa  (North,  East,  South,  West,  Cen¬ 
tral). 

WORLD  FIELD  OF  MISSIONS 


THURSDAY  Latin  America  (South  and  Central 

America,  Mexico,  West  Indies). 

FRIDAY  The  Near  East  (Palestine,  Syria,  Tur¬ 

key,  Arabia,  Iraq,  Iran),  Central  Asia, 
Afghanistan,  Baluchistan,  Moslems 
throughout  the  world. 

SATURDAY  Jews  throughout  the  world.  Island 

World  (including  the  Philippines  and 
Dutch  East  Indies). 


SEVEN  INSTEAD  OF  TEN 

A  striking  instance  of  how  PRAYER  CHANGES 
THINGS  on  the  mission  field. 

cJi  MISSIONARY  COUPLE,  in  charge  of  some  ten 
stations,  felt  constrained  to  write  their  secretary  at 
home  confessing  the  lack  of  progress  in  their  field.  Be¬ 
cause  of  indifference,  opposition,  and  ignorance,  they 
seemed  to  make  no  headway.  To  human  eyes  the  situa¬ 
tion  looked  hopeless. 

The  missionaries  suggested  that  the  secretary  try  to 
find  ten  persons,  each  of  whom  would  make  one  sta 
tion  a  special  object  of  unceasing  prayer  that  the  Lord 
would  work  a  change.  Time  passed,  and  things  began 
to  happen  in  seven  of  the  ten  stations.  Revival  broke 
out,  the  gospel  was  gladly  received,  and  great  numbers 
were  brought  into  the  fold.  But  in  the  other  three 
stations  there  was  still  no  change. 

Again  the  missionaries  wrote  the  secretary,  telling 
of  the  change  in  the  seven  stations,  but  expressing 
their  concern  for  the  other  three,  and  asking  if  he  had 
anything  further  to  suggest. 

It  was  not  difficult  for  the  secretary  to  clear  up  the 
seeming  mystery.  He  had  succeeded  in  getting  special 
intercessors  for  seven  of  the  ten  stations,  but  not  for 
the  other  three.  The  contrasted  records  spoke  elo¬ 
quently  of  the  part  that  prayer  had  played. 

“ For  from  the  beginning  of  the  world  men  have  not 
heard ,  .  .  .  neither  hath  the  eye  seen  a  God  beside  thee, 
which  doeth  so  for  him  that  waiteth  for  him"  (Isa. 
64:4), 

"The  prayer  power  has  never  been  tried  to  its  full 
capacity  in  any  church.  If  we  want  to  see  mighty 
wonders  of  divine  grace  and  power  wrought  in  the 
place  of  weakness,  failure,  and  disappointment,  let  the 
whole  church  answer  God's  standing  challenge:  'Call 
unto  me,  and  I  will  answer  thee,  and  show  thee  great 
and  mighty  things  tvhich  thou  knowest  not.'  ”  (Jer.  33: 
3) —Hudson  Taylor. 


Issued  by  the  Interdenominational  Foreign  Mission  Association 
of  North  America.  Sample  copies  of  this  and  other  pamphlets 
will  be  sent  free  (complete  set  j85c)  and  orders  filled  by  address¬ 
ing  the  I.F.M.A.,  375  Carlton  Avenue,  Brooklyn  5,  New  York. 

v.  *.*• 

1048 


MISSIONARY 


QUALIFICATIONS 
AND  PREPARATION 


Missionary  Qualifications 
and  Preparation 

CHRISTIAN  service  requires  the  highest 
character,  the  best  of  gift  and  talent,  and  there¬ 
fore  the  proper  training  and  equipment  of  the 
worker.  This  is  doubly  true  of  the  mission 
field,  -with  its  unlimited  scope  for  the  employ¬ 
ment  of  every  kind  of  gift  and  every  type  of 
worker.  Here  too,  largely  through  being  in  a 
strange  land  and  among  a  strange  people, 
special  demands  are  made  upon  the  missionary 
along  spiritual,  intellectual,  and  physical  lines. 
His  qualifications  and  preparation  are  presented 
under  three  heads. 

Spiritual  Qualifications 

1)  Be  assured  of  your  salvation  through  the 
finished  work  of  Christ  and  by  personal 
appropriation  of  the  promises  of  God. 
Satan  may  try  to  challenge  you  concerning 
this  with  deadly  subtlety. 

2  )  Maintain  close  fellowship  with  God  in  the 
fulness  of  the  Holy  Spirit  as  an  ever 
deepening  daily  experience — growing  in 
grace  and  in  the  knowledge  of  Christ. 
Spiritual  stagnation  is  a  danger. 

3 )  Manifest  a  deep ,  sincere  love  for  souls, 
especially  for  the  people  to  whom  one  is 
called.  The  winning  of  men  to  Christ 


3 


must  be  the  missionary's  life  passion.  It 
is  surprisingly  easy  on  the  mission  field  to 
substitute  other  things  for  this,  or  to  be¬ 
come  harsh,  censorious,  and  legalistic. 

4)  Evidence  soundness  of  faith.  A  firm  belief 
in  the  Bible  as  the  inspired  Word  of  God, 
and  the  knowledge  and  acceptance  of  its 
teachings.  Knowing  how  to  use  the  Word 
especially  in  personal  work. 

5)  Possess  a  sense  of  Divine  commission,  of 
being  under  the  Master’s  orders,  of  being 
a  missionary  (full  time  or  otherwise)  "by 
the  will  of  God”,  of  being  called  and  sent 
forth  to  that  field  or  type  of  work  which 
you  believe  to  be  God’s  choice  for  you. 
(Beware,  however,  of  an  overbearing  as¬ 
surance  concerning  God’s  will  in  particular 
matters,  with  little  respect  for  the  opinions 
of  others  and  the  leading  God  may  have 
given  them.) 


Intellectual  Qualifications 

1)  The  ability  to  learn,  or  knowing  how  to 
study.  The  missionary  should  be  one  who 
can  observe  and  obtain,  and  make  use  of 
information.  He  has  to  learn  a  foreign 
language  or  languages,  and  should  acquire 
a  knowledge  of  native  customs  and  beliefs, 
of  the  people  themselves,  their  thinking 
and  reactions,  as  well  as  being  a  faithful 
student  of  the  Word  itself. 


4 


2)  The  ability  to  teach,  to  impart  to  others. 
He  must  be  able  to  present  the  Christian 
message  clearly  and  effectively  to  those 
who  have  entirely  different  and  firmly 
rooted  ideas,  and  who  may  have  little  or 
no  general  knowledge.  The  missionary  is 
under  grave  responsibility  to  preach  the 
gospel  so  that  it  is  understood.  See  Matt. 
13:19,  23. 

3)  Open-mindedness.  Wideness  of  interests, 
reading,  and  thinking  are  necessary  to  keep 
the  missionary  fresh  and  alert,  and  cap¬ 
able  of  winning  the  friendship  and  confi¬ 
dence  of  the  many  types  of  people  he  will 
meet.  A  starved  intellect  or  a  rutted  and 
narrow  mind  may  render  worse  than  use¬ 
less  the  most  zealous  and  orthodox  work¬ 
er.  A  trained,  active  and  open  mind  is 
next  in  importance  to  a  devout  heart. 

Physical  Qualifications 

The  prospective  missionary  must  be  healthy 
and  thoroughly  sound  in  constitution,  though 
particular  disabilities  are  not  always  a  bar  to 
the  foreign  field.  Certain  types  of  work  require 
extra  robustness.  Nervous  and  temperamental 
stability  are  of  utmost  importance. 


Qualifications  for  a  missionary  may  also  in¬ 
clude  the  following: 

Humility.  National  as  well  as  personal  pride 
cannot  be  too  strongly  deprecated.  The  mission- 


5 


ary  must  be  willing  to  see  the  good  in  others 
and  to  learn  from  them. 

Conscientiousness — a  strong  sense  of  respon¬ 
sibility  toward  God,  His  work,  fellow-workers, 
supporters  at  home,  and  to  the  mission  of  which 
he  is  a  part — for  example,  being  faithful  in 
correspondence ! 

Patience,  perseverance,  endurance,  and  pur¬ 
posefulness.  Things  move  very  slowly  in  most 
foreign  lands.  They  are  often  done  quite  dif¬ 
ferently  from  what  we  are  accustomed  to.  The 
missionary  must  frequently  face  mishaps,  dis¬ 
appointments,  misunderstandings,  injustices, 
perhaps  insults,  physical  discomforts,  hard¬ 
ships  and  much  nervous  strain.  The  odds 
against  him  are  in  many  ways  greater  than  at 
home.  Read  2  Cor.  6:1-10  and  11:23-28. 

Adaptability.  New,  frequently  changing  and 
often  trying  circumstances  are  the  missionary’s 
lot.  He  must  be  able  to  adjust  himself  to  them, 
to  the  people  and  their  ways  in  the  country  of 
his  adoption.  A  cooperative  spirit  is  essential, 
for  he  will  be  living  and  traveling  at  very  close 
quarters  with  others.  He  must  be  able  to  work 
as  a  member  of  a  team.  Tactfulness  is  a  most 
important  asset,  as  is  also  the  capacity  for  sym¬ 
pathy  and  understanding. 

Common  sense — the  ability  to  take  reason¬ 
able  precautions  to  guard  one’s  health,  safety, 
and  general  well-being.  This  includes  such 
knowledge  as  knowing  how  to  relax,  rest,  and 
keep  oneself  young  in  spirit. 

6 


Humor.  This  is  indispensable  in  daily  living 
and  contacts,  and  often  saves  the  day  in  an 
awkward  and  unpleasant  situation. 

Character  or  poise — mental  and  spiritual 
balance.  Extremes  are  disastrous.  Piety  without 
character  is  dangerous,  as  is  zeal  without  wis¬ 
dom. 

PREPARATION  FOR  THE  MISSION  FIELD 

Spiritual  Preparation 

Development  of  devotional  habits.  Know¬ 
ing  how  to  feed  on  God's  Word  without  any 
"helps”;  getting  daily  strength  and  direction 
from  it;  memorization  of  scripture;  a  systematic, 
comprehensive  prayer  life.  If  these  are  not  de¬ 
veloped  beforehand,  there  will  be  little  likeli¬ 
hood  of  their  being  developed  after  reaching 
the  field. 

Knowledge  of  the  Bible  and  of  Christian 
doctrine  and  history.  This  is  usually  best  ob¬ 
tained  at  a  Bible  school,  Christian  college,  or 
reliable  seminary,  including  if  possible  courses 
in  missions. 

Practical  experience  in  Christian  service  may 
be  obtained  at  Bible  school  and  in  direct  church 
work  under  an  able  pastor  or  other  Christian 
leader — Sunday  school,  young  people’s  work, 
visitation,  street  preaching,  etc. 

Personal  witness  and  soul  winning.  Knowing 


7 


how  to  make  a  spiritual  diagnosis  and  how  to 
use  the  Word  of  God  in  dealing  with  individ¬ 
uals.  Certainly  every  missionary  should  be  a 
soul  winner  before  leaving  his  home  shores. 
Crossing  oceans  will  not  make  him  any  bolder 
in  this  all  important  task. 

Intellectual  Preparation 

A  sound  general  education  is  necessary.  Uni¬ 
versity  or  college  education  is  very  desirable, 
as  those  equipped  in  this  way  are  increasingly 
needed  on  the  mission  field  today,  but  mission¬ 
ary  personnel  is  by  no  means  limited  to  such 
workers. 

Many  special  subjects,  such  as  psychology 
and  logic,  can  be  turned  into  good  account  on 
the  field,  also  business  knowledge  and  experi¬ 
ence,  and  almost  any  professional  or  technical 
training. 

A  knowledge  of  phonetics  and  linguistics  is 
invaluable,  especially  in  primitive  lands  where 
the  language  has  not  been  reduced  to  writing. 
One  of  the  sources  for  instruction  in  these  two 
important  subjects  for  missionary  use  is  given 
by  the  Wycliffe  Bible  Translators  at  their  sum¬ 
mer  institutes. 

The  cultivation  of  some  special  interest  in 
the  realm  of  art,  literature,  or  music,  or  of 
some  practical  hobby,  is  helpful  within  limits 
and  may  prove  of  real  use  as  a  pleasant  recrea¬ 
tion. 


8 


Physical  Preparation 

Observe  carefully  all  the  rules  of  health.  Try 
to  build  up  a  reserve  of  physical  strength.  Do 
as  much  walking  as  possible,  cycling,  etc.  The 
ability  to  swim  may  become  extremely  useful 
some  day!  Without  going  to  excess,  seek  to 
inure  yourself  to  hardships  and  discomforts. 

An  early  medical  examination  to  determine 
your  physical  fitness  for  the  foreign  field  is 
recommended. 


Missionary  Knowledge 

In  addition  to  the  above,  the  prospective 
missionary  should  learn  all  he  can  about  life 
and  work  on  the  mission  field.  Read  missionary 
magazines,  biographies,  and  other  books.  Am¬ 
bassadors  for  Christ,  by  Mildred  Cable  and 
Francesca  French,  meets  a  great  need  in  this 
connection.  Talk  with  missionaries,  and  attend 
as  many  missionary  meetings  as  possible.  Learn 
about  other  fields  as  well  as  the  one  in  which 
you  may  be  especially  interested. 

Study  missionary  principles  and  history. 
Learn  something  of  the  world’s  religions.  Pro¬ 
gress  of  W orld-Wide  Missions  by  Dr.  Robert 
H.  Glover,  and  Missionary  Methods — St.  Paul’s 
or  Ours?  by  Roland  Allen,  and  The  Dynamic 
of  Service  by  Paget  Wilkes,  ought  to  be  read 
by  every  prospective  missionary. 

Medical  Knowledge 

A  knowledge  of  first  aid,  the  use  of  simple 


remedies,  elementary  nursing,  teeth  extraction, 
sanitation,  etc.,  is  of  great  importance  if  not 
essential.  If  possible,  take  a  course  in  mission¬ 
ary  medicine  and  hygiene,  especially  if  you  ex¬ 
pect  to  go  to  a  pioneer  field. 

Miscellaneous 

A  knowledge  of  the  following  subjects  will 
almost  certainly  come  in  useful:  carpentry, 
building,  gardening,  care  of  horses,  cows,  etc., 
cooking,  dietetics,  photography,  radio,  mechan¬ 
ics,  driving,  stenography,  keeping  accounts — 
the  latter  being  a  positive  essential. 


"Who  is  sufficient  for  these  things?  .  .  ■ 
Our  sufficiency  is  of  God.” 


10 


ROOM  735 
2860  BROADWAY 
NEW  YORK  23,  N.  Y. 

Issued  by  the  Interdenominational  Foreign  Mission  Association 
America, 

Distributed  by 

Africa  Inland  Mission,  375  Carlton  Avenue,  Brooklyn  5,  N.  Y. 
(Member  Mission  of  I.F.M.A.) 

V,NTt6 


MEN 

WANTED 


MEN  WANTED! 

WOMEN  have  done  a  noble  work  in  missions 
all  down  the  centuries,  and  there  are  far  more 
women  than  men  in  missionary  work  today. 
Missionary  societies  still  need  women  and 
continue  to  accept  them  for  service,  because 
there  are  certain  kinds  of  work  that  only  wo¬ 
men  can  do  and  should  do.  We  fully  recog¬ 
nize  the  value  of  their  service  and  we  com¬ 
mend  them  heartily  for  all  they  have  accom¬ 
plished,  but  we  wonder  why  there  should  be 
so  few  men  by  comparison.  The  great  work 
of  foreign  missions  never  stood  in  such  dire 
need  for  men  as  it  does  today,  and  it  is  of  this 
need  for  men  that  we  now  write. 

As  man  to  man,  we  address  this  appeal  to 
our  Christian  brothers.  The  cry  of  foreign 
missions  now,  as  never  before,  is  MEN 
WANTED.  Too  long  has  the  work  of  foreign 
missions  been  left  to  women.  The  missionary 
work  of  the  church  has  been  left  to  the  Wo¬ 
men's  Missionary  Society.  We  scarcely  ever 
hear  of  a  Men’s  Missionary  Society.  “Men  have 
not  time  to  attend  missionary  meetings,”  is 
one  excuse  frequently  given;  yet  men  do  have 
time  to  attend  many  other  meetings  for  other 
purposes.  Thousands  of  Christian  business 
men  find  time  to  gather  weekly  for  luncheons, 
and  God  blesses  their  fellowship  and  labors; 
so  lack  of  time  evidently  is  not  the  reason  why 
men  do  not  meet  to  further  the  work  of  mis¬ 
sions.  It  would  revolutionize  missionary  work 
if  the  men  would  take  it  up  as  seriously  and 
devotedly  as  have  their  wives  and  mothers. 


The  need  for  men  recruits  is  desperate,  not 
only  to  press  the  advance  into  the  enemy’s 
territory,  but  also  to  hold  the  ground  already 
gained.  Again  we  cry  out,  MEN  WANTED! 

Here  are  some  reasons  why  foreign  mission¬ 
ary  work  is  primarily  a  man’s  job: 

1)  The  Great  Commission  was  given  to  men. 
The  Lord  Jesus  chose  men  to  be  His  disciples. 
He  sent  forth  men  as  His  witnesses  while  He 
was  yet  on  earth,  and  He  told  the  brethren  to 
go  into  all  the  world  with  the  gospel.  We 
have  slipped  here,  and  have  failed  our  Lord 
in  not  emphasizing  the  Great  Commission 
primarily  as  a  man’s  job. 

2)  The  standards  of  pagan  lands  call  for 
men.  The  native  mind  demands  that  a  man 
be  the  leader  of  any  work.  Because  of  the  lack 
of  men,  women  have  had  to  take  the  lead 
again  and  again,  and  we  concede  that  God  has 
overruled  this  situation  in  many  places.  Our 
sisters  have  gone  forth  with  the  Word  of  life, 
they  have  won  converts  to  the  Lord,  and  they 
have  won  the  respect  of  those  converts.  Yet 
we  cannot  get  away  from  the  fact  that  in  most 
foreign  lands  the  father  is  the  head  of  the 
family,  and  the  men  are  leaders  of  the  com¬ 
munity.  This  prominence  of  men  in  positions 
of  authority  is  also  the  rule  in  the  Bible. 

Missionaries  are  aliens  in  a  foreign  land, 
and  must  often  contact  government  officials 
for  various  reasons,  such  as  permission  to  put 
up  a  building  or  to  take  a  journey.  When  wo¬ 
men  have  had  to  stand  before  officials,  the 
cause  of  missions  in  the  estimation  of  the 


people  has  been  lowered.  Indifference  and  op¬ 
position  from  foreign  officials  have  often  been 
due  to  our  lack  of  men  to  make  such  official 
representation. 

3)  Pioneer  work  in  foreign  countries  re¬ 
quires  men.  Long  journeys  must  be  made  on 
foot  or  on  miserable  conveyances.  The  climate 
in  most  foreign  mission  lands  is  trying,  the 
food  coarse,  and  housing  uncomfortable.  In 
some  fields  the  missionary  must  build  his  own 
house  or  supervise  men  who  build  it  for  him. 
The  living  conditions  are  specially  difficult  in 
pioneer  work.  This  kind  of  work  should  not 
be  left  for  women  to  do.  The  very  hazards  of 
the  life  make  foreign  missions  a  man’s  job. 

4)  Men  and  boys  must  be  reached  by  men. 
It  takes  a  man  to  reach  men  and  boys  effec¬ 
tively.  Boys’  work  at  home  is  generally  done 
by  men;  how  far  would  we  get  if  this  work 
were  left  to  women  only?  Where  will  the  next 
generation  of  leaders  for  the  native  churches 
come  from  if  we  do  not  win  the  boys  for  Christ 
now?  This  is  a  man’s  job. 

5)  The  native  church  needs  the  counsel  of 
men.  God’s  Word  ordains  that  men  shall  be 
leaders  in  the  church;  and  it  takes  a  man  to 
lead  men.  Men  missionaries  are  needed  in  the 
native  church  as  advisers,  too.  They  can  enter 
into  the  native  man’s  problems  in  a  way  that 
no  woman  ought  to  be  expected  to  do. 

Men  have  not  hesitated  to  go  to  the  ends 
of  the  earth  for  fame  and  glory;  why  should 
we  be  slow  to  go  for  Jesus  Christ?  Men  have 
traveled  far  afield  just  for  the  thrill  of  enter- 


mg  unknown  lands;  can  we  escape  the  chal¬ 
lenge  to  enter  these  same  lands  for  Christ  — 
when  half  of  the  world  is  still  untouched  by 
the  gospel?  Men  have  not  held  back  from  go¬ 
ing  out  to  foreign  lands  as  representatives  of 
their  governments;  shall  we  disobey  the  com¬ 
mand  of  Christ  to  go  forth  as  ambassadors  for 
Him?  Merchants  have  braved  the  dangers  of 
lonely  foreign  trails  to  make  money  for  them¬ 
selves;  shall  we  do  less  to  win  souls  for  Christ? 

Shame  on  us  men,  that  in  some  of  the 
farthest  outposts  of  the  world  many  things  of 
western  manufacture  reached  there  before  the 
gospel.  Shame  on  us  men,  that  the  tobacco 
companies  have  fairly  covered  the  world  with 
their  products,  and  that  cigarettes  get  in  be¬ 
fore  the  message  of  life  is  given  to  those  dis¬ 
tant  peoples.  Shame  on  us  men,  that  we  can 
smugly  sing  "My  Jesus,  I  love  Thee,”  and  yet 
scarcely  find  a  few  minutes  a  day  to  pray  for 
the  heathen,  and  that  so  few  of  us  have  dared 
to  go  to  them  with  the  gospel! 

MEN  WANTED!  Christian  brother,  how 
are  you  answering  the  call? 


Issued  by  the  Int®  zdenominetion a!  Foreign  Mission  Association 
oS  North  America,  375  Carlton  Avenue,  Brooklyn  5P  New  York. 
Member  of 

Africa  Inland  Mission,  375  Carlton  Avenue,  Brooklyn  §„  N.  Y. 
(Member  Mission  of  I.F.MJl.) 


BY  REV.  LEE  H.  DOWNING 


REV.  LEE  H.  DOWNING 
was  a  missionary  of  the 
Africa  Inland  Mission 
laboring  in  Kenya  from  1901 
till  his  death  in  1942. 


How  May  I  Know  God’s  Plan 
For  My  Life? 


Do  you  know  that  He  has  a  plan — a  plan 
for  your  life  as  definite  as  that  of  the  architect 
for  a  building  about  to  be  erected?  Before  a 
stone  of  the  foundation  is  laid  the  architect 
has  thought  through  the  prepared  detailed 
specifications  regarding  the  shape  and  size  of 
the  building,  and  of  every  piece  of  material 
entering  into  its  construction.  God's  plan  for 
your  life  is  not  less  definite,  and  His  plan  is 
the  best  that  could  possibly  be  made.  He 
understands  you  better  than  you  understand 
yourself ;  knows  your  limitations  and  your  ca¬ 
pabilities  better  than  you  know  them,  and 
knows  also  conditions  throughout  the  world, 
not  only  those  that  prevail  at  the  present 
moment,  but  all  that  will  arise  until  the  end 
of  time.  Is  He  not,  therefore,  best  qualified  to 
order  your  life?  This  He  waits  to  do. 

Somewhere  in  this  world  He  has  prepared  a 
niche  for  you,  and  when  you  find  that  niche 
you  will  fit  into  it  as  you  will  into  no  other. 
Richer  experiences  await  you  there  than  else¬ 
where  in  all  the  world.  "Strength  and  glad¬ 
ness  are  in  his  place”  (I  Chron.  16:27).  “His 
place”  for  you,  therefore,  is  the  one  in  which 
you  will  'be  strongest  and  happiest,  the  one  in 
which  you  will  experience  the  highest  degree 
of  joy  and  satisfaction  and  fruitfulness  in 
service  of  which  you  are  capable. 

3 


Dr.  F.  B.  Meyer  once  expressed  the  thought 
that  if  such  a  thing  as  sorrow  were  possible  in 
heaven,  a  sufficient  cause  for  it  would  be  to 
have  God's  draft-plan  for  an  individual  pro¬ 
duced  and  presented  before  him  that  he  might 
compare  what  God  had  intended  him  to  do 
with  what  he  had  actually  accomplished.  The 
contrast,  Dr.  Meyer  believed,  would  be  so 
striking  as  to  cause  sorrow,  if  that  were  pos¬ 
sible  up  there. 

Most  people  finish  their  course  down  here 
without  ever  having  known  God's  purpose  for 
them.  Will  you?  Does  not  the  very  possibility 
of  doing  so  stir  in  your  heart  an  intense  desire 
to  find  an  answer  to  the  question: 

How  May  I  Know  God’s  Plan  For  My  Life? 

To  some  the  answer  has  come  through  pur¬ 
suing  the  course  prescribed  in  the  following 
outline,  supported  by  the  Scripture  texts  in¬ 
serted: 

1.  Be  assured  that  He  has  a  plan. 

Eph.  2:10;  Acts  15:18;  Ps.  37:23; 

Phil.  2:13;  Acts  13:2. 

2.  Be  assured  that  He  will  reveal  His  plan. 

Eph.  5:17;  Col.  1:9;  Ps.  32:8;  Ps. 

73:24;  Acts  16:6,7. 

3.  Afford  Him  an  opportunity  by  waiting 

upon  Him. 

(a)  Alone.  Matt.  6:6. 

(b)  At  an  appointed  time. 

(c)  With  your  whole  being  yielded 
to  Him.  Rom.  12:1,2. 

4 


(d)  In  expectancy  —  faith.  Heb. 

11:6. 

(e)  Recording  the  impressions. 

4.  Begin  to  execute  the  plan  as  soon  as  it 
is  revealed. 

Acts  26:19,20. 

1.  Be  Assured  That  He  Has  a  Plan. 

This  is  important,  for  the  Adversary  knows 
that  God  will  be  more  glorified  through  our 
executing  His  plan  for  our  lives  than  in  the 
accomplishment  of  any  self-chosen  tasks. 
Therefore  he  will  do  his  utmost  to  prevent  our 
knowing  the  plan,  and  only  a  well-grounded 
assurance  of  its  existence  will  enable  us  to 
persevere  until  the  revelation  comes.  Such  as¬ 
surance  may  be  had  through  accepting  the 
truth  stated  in  the  texts  cited  above,  only  one 
of  which  will  be  commented  upon. 

Ephesians  2:10  declares  that  "We  are 
*  *  *  created  in  Christ  Jesus  unto  good  works, 
which  God  hath  before  ordained  (R.  V., 
"prepared”)  that  we  should  walk  in  them.” 
How  long  "before,”  is  suggested  by  the  clause 
in  Eph.  1 :4,  "Chosen  *  *  *  in  him  before  the 
foundation  of  the  world.”  May  not  the  choice 
and  the  plan  have  been  simultaneous?  If  so, 
then  both  were  made  before  the  foundation  of 
the  world.  Wondrous  thought,  that  we  should 
be  in  God's  mind,  and  our  lives  be  planned, 
before  this  universe  was  brought  into  being! 
But  we  are  of  more  value  to  Him  than  the 
material  world  about  us,  and  it  is  because  we 
cost  Him  more. 


5 


"That  we  should  walk  in  them"  is  the  final 
statement  of  the  verse  quoted  above — language 
which  suggests  that  before  each  of  us  is  a 
divinely  prepared  pathway  strewn  with  good 
works  made  ready  to  our  hands.  Along  the 
one  prepared  for  you  will  be  found  all  the 
souls  that  He  expects  you  to  win,  all  the  work 
that  He  expects  you  to  accomplish,  and  all  the 
discipline  necessary  to  fit  you  for  that  work. 
What  if  you  miss  that  pathway?  You  will  miss 
God’s  best  for  you,  and  enjoy  only  His  second 
choice. 

"God  has  His  best  things  for  the  few 
That  date  to  stand  the  test; 

God  has  His  second  choice  for  those 
Who  will  not  have  His  best." 

Having  become  assured  that  He  has  a  plan 
for  your  life,  next  be  assured 

2.  That  He  Will  Reveal  to  You  That  Plan. 

"Be  ye  not  unwise,  but  understanding  what 
the  will  of  the  Lord  is."  We  ate  commanded 
to  know  His  will,  therefore  it  must  be  His  will 
to  reveal  His  will,  including  the  part  which 
concerns  your  life-work. 

"That  ye  might  be  filled  with  the  knowledge 
of  his  will”  is  one  petition  in  the  apostle’s 
prayer  for  the  saints  of  Colosse.  When  we  are 
filled  with  the  knowledge  of  His  will,  there  is 
no  place  left  for  doubt  and  uncertainty. 

Turning  to  the  American  Revised  Version 
one  finds  this  interesting  series  of  texts: 
"Counsel  is  mine”  (Prov.  8:14),  "I  will  coun¬ 
sel  thee”  (Ps.  32:8),  "The  counsel  of  Jehovah 
6 


standeth  fast  for  ever"  (Ps.  33:11).  The 
marginal  rendering  in  this  version  of  Prov. 
8:14  entire  affords  a  powerful  incentive  to 
have  one's  life  ordered  by  the  Lord.  It  is  this: 
“Counsel  is  mine,  and  effectual  working:  I 
am  understanding;  I  have  might.”  Get  your 
counsel  from  God,  and  He  is  the  Effectual 
Worker  to  bring  it  to  pass.  He  is  able  to  place 
you  where  He  wants  you.  The  principalities 
and  powers  opposed  the  risen  Saviour’s  return 
to  the  Father's  right  hand,  but  He  brought 
Him  triumphantly  through  these  organized 
forces  of  evil  arrayed  against  Him,  and  placed 
Him  just  where  He  wanted  Him.  He  will  do  as 
much  for  you — that  is,  He  will  place  you  just 
where  He  wants  you — when  your  life  is  wholly 
at  His  disposal. 

Do  not  these  Scriptures  assure  you  that  God 
has  a  plan  for  your  life,  and  that  He  has 
pledged  Himself  to  reveal  that  plan  if  you  will 
fulfill  His  conditions?  If  so,  then 

3,  Afford  Him  an  Opportunity  by  Waiting 
Upon  Him, 

(a)  Alone.  Jesus  said,  "Thou,  when  thou 
prayest,  enter  into  thy  closet,  and  when  thou 
hast  shut  thy  door,  pray  to  thy  Father  which  is 
in  secret;  and  thy  Father  which  seeth  in  secret 
shall  reward  thee  openly.”  In  the  secret  place, 
shut  in  with  God,  we  may  expect  leadings  so 
definite  as  to  assure  others  later  that  they  were 
from  Him. 

When  I  announced  my  decision  to  go  to 
Africa,  some  friends  sought  to  dissuade  me. 

7 


They  knew  I  was  not  very  strong  physically, 
though  passed  by  the  doctor,  and  to  them  it 
seemed  a  great  risk,  especially  to  go  under  a 
Faith  Mission,  which  does  not  guarantee  the 
support  of  its  missionaries.  Now,  after  twenty- 
three  years  of  service  on  the  field,  with  every 
need  supplied,  not  one  of  them  feels  that  I 
made  a  mistake.  Little  did  I  realize,  as  I  waited 
for  guidance  day  after  day  in  the  secret  place, 
that  the  Father  would  ever  reward  me  so 
"openly."  "He  shall  bring  forth  *  *  *  thy 
judgment  as  the  noonday”  (Ps.  37:6)  was 
verified  in  my  experience. 

(b)  At  an  appointed  time.  Think  over 
your  daily  schedule  and  decide  when  in  the 
twenty-four  hours  you  could  be  alone  with  the 
Lord  without  interruption,  and  make  up  your 
mind  to  meet  Him  every  day  at  that  time.  The 
duration  of  the  interview  will  be  determined 
somewhat  by  the  other  duties  demanding  your 
attention.  A  half-hour  daily,  if  more  cannot  be 
spared,  is  better  than  an  hour  today,  no  time 
tomorrow,  and  such  time  the  day  following  as 
can  be  conveniently  spent  in  this  way.  The 
faithful  keeping  of  this  appointment  prepares 
one  to  receive  impressions  from  the  Lord,  and 
brings  the  consciousness  of  having  definite 
dealings  with  Him. 

(c)  With  your  whole  being  yielded  to  Him. 
This  is  absolutely  necessary.  The  one  who,  on 
hearing  that  God  has  a  plan  for  every  life, 
says,  "I  would  like  to  look  over  His  plan  for 
me  to  see  if  I  will  accept  it,”  will  finish  his 
days  down  here  without  ever  having  seen  the 

8 


plan.  God  never  promised  to  reveal  it  on  such 
terms.  It  is  after  the  body  has  been  presented 
a  living  sacrifice  that  God’s  will  becomes  "ac¬ 
ceptable”  (Rom.  12:1,2). 

The  experience  of  a  young  man  in  the  Uni¬ 
versity  of  Minnesota  illustrates  this  truth.  He 
was  wanted  on  the  varsity  football  team,  and 
wanted  as  manager  of  a  branch  store  by  the 
firm  for  which  he  had  been  working,  but  God 
was  claiming  his  life.  One  evening  as  the  sun 
was  setting,  four  of  us  who  had  spent  the  day 
together  in  his  home  city  went  to  a  nearby 
place  on  the  shore  of  Lake  Superior  and  seated 
ourselves  for  prayer  on  a  large  rock  which 
jutted  out  a  little  way  into  the  water.  The 
other  three  had  prayed  and  he  began,  but  his 
throat  filled;  the  tears  started  and  the  voice 
stopped;  he  began  to  sob  and  his  big  body 
shook  with  emotion.  After  a  brief  silence  he 
said,  "Fellows,  forgive  me,  I  can’t  help  it” 
Isaiah  57:15  was  quoted  to  assure  him  that  his 
present  condition  was  pleasing  to  God:  "For 
thus  saith  the  high  and  lofty  One  that  inhabit- 
eth  eternity,  whose  name  is  Holy;  I  dwell  in 
the  high  and  holy  place,  with  him  also  that  is 
of  a  contrite  and  humble  spirit,  to  revive  the 
spirit  of  the  humble,  and  to  revive  the  heart 
of  the  contrite  one."  He  resumed  praying  and 
said,  "Lord,  Thou  didst  never  have  me  before 
where  Thou  couldst  speak  to  me  as  Thou  canst 
this  evening.  Take  me  and  use  me  in  any  way 
that  will  serve  Thy  purpose.”  From  that  mo¬ 
ment  he  desired  above  everything  else  to  know 
God’s  will.  Nothing  was  now  so  "acceptable” 
9 


to  him,  but  this  experience  followed  that  of 
presenting  his  body  a  living  sacrifice. 

(d)  In  expectancy — faith.  "Without  faith 
it  is  impossible  to  please  him:  for  he  that 
cometh  to  God  must  believe  that  he  is,  and 
that  he  is  a  rewarder  of  them  that  diligently 
seek  him.”  In  order  therefore  to  know  His 
plan,  one  must  come  to  Him  in  faith,  but  the 
faith  which  He  requires  He  is  ready  to  impart 
through  the  means  mentioned  in  Rom.  10:17: 
"Faith  cometh  by  hearing,  and  hearing  by  the 
word  of  God.”  As  well  might  one  hope  to 
maintain  physical  strength  without  partaking 
of  wholesome  food,  as  to  possess  faith  without 
pondering  the  Word  of  God.  The  doctor's 
method  of  restoring  health  to  an  invalid  illu¬ 
strates  God’s  usual  method  of  imparting  faith 
to  His  children.  Specific  directions  are  given 
by  the  doctor  regarding  diet,  drugs,  exercise, 
rest,  and  everything  that  affects  the  patient's 
condition.  Through  the  faithful  observance  of 
his  directions  health  is  restored.  The  process 
may  involve  months  of  living  strictly  in  ac¬ 
cord  with  the  doctor's  orders — abstaining  from 
foods  that  are  prohibited,  though  pleasing  to 
the  palate;  retiring  at  the  appointed  hour, 
though  further  fellowship  with  friends  would 
be  very  enjoyable;  taking  bitter  tonics  because 
they  are  prescribed;  and  doing  other  things 
which  the  flesh  would  rather  not  do — but  no 
self-denial  is  deemed  too  great  if  only  health 
can  be  restored. 

So  with  faith.  It  is  imparted  gradually 
through  ordering  the  life  strictly  in  accord 
10 


with  the  teaching  of  God's  Word.  Most  people 
are  unwilling  to  pay  the  price  of  faith.  They 
want  to  receive  it  in  bulk  form,  as  it  were,  and 
without  cost  or  delay. 

(e)  Recording  the  impressions.  Just  how 
God’s  plan  for  a  particular  life  will  be  revealed, 
no  one  can  say.  He  does  not  deal  alike  with 
His  children,  but  each  may  be  led  on  to  prayer 
experiences  too  rich  to  be  described,  and  too 
sacred  to  be  divulged.  "If  I  tried,  I  could  not 
utter  what  He  says  when  thus  we  meet"  is  the 
language  of  every  soul  accustomed  to  frequent 
and  sometimes  prolonged  sessions  alone  with 
Him. 

My  only  hope,  therefore,  is  to  say  something 
of  a  general  character  that  may  help  those 
who  are  just  beginning  to  seek  counsel  of 
God. 

The  simple  suggestion,  made  many  years 
ago  to  a  group  of  Bible  students  by  the  Gen¬ 
eral  Director  of  our  Mission  (the  man  who  by 
precept  and  example  has  helped  me  more  than 
any  other  toward  a  life  of  absolute  dependence 
upon  God),  I  hope  will  prove  as  helpful  to 
you  as  it  has  to  me. 

When  desirous  of  knowing  God’s  will  con¬ 
cerning  an  important  matter,  especially  if  it  be 
whether,  or  not,  you  should  do  a  particular 
thing,  draw  a  line  through  a  blank  sheet  of 
paper,  and  on  one  side  of  the  line  write  all  the 
reasons  for,  and  on  the  other  side  all  the  rea¬ 
sons  against,  doing  the  thing.  Pray  over  these 
reasons.  If  necessary  revise  the  list  from  day  to 
day  while  alone  with  Him  at  the  appointed 
11 


time.  Ere  long  quite  a  distinct  impression  will 
be  borne  in  upon  your  heart  in  favor  of  one 
side  or  the  other.  If  the  impression  which 
comes  today  is  from  the  Spirit  of  God,  it  will 
be  deeper  tomorrow;  if  not  from  Him,  it  will 
fade  out.  We  should,  I  believe,  regard  as  from 
the  Lord  the  impressions  that  come  to  us  when 
we  are  alone  with  Him  and  absolutely  yielded, 
/.  e.,  perfectly  willing  to  do  or  not  to  do  the 
thing  about  which  we  are  inquiring.  An  earthly 
father  would  not  consent  to  an  enemy’s  an¬ 
swering  the  question  of  his  son  who  comes  to 
him  for  advice;  nor  will  our  heavenly  Father 
permit  His  enemy  to  enter  the  secret  place  and 
influence  the  child  who  is  so  eager  to  know 
His  will  as  to  set  apart  a  time  and  go  alone 
daily  to  receive  the  revelation  of  l't.  One  needs, 
I  know,  to  speak  guardedly  on  this  point.  It  is 
easy  to  become  presumptuous  and  fanatical, 
but  let  us  remember  that  we  are  in  God’s 
school,  pupils  to  be  taught  individually  by  His 
Spirit,  then  seek  to  discover  His  method  of  in¬ 
fluencing  us  personally.  I  am  not  emotional;  I 
do  not  have  visions,  or  hear  audible  voices,  or 
have  such  spectacular  experiences  as  I  have 
heard  others  relate.  In  my  experience  the  lead¬ 
ing  comes  through  gradually  deepening  inward 
impressions  such  as  I  have  already  described. 
Time  will  reveal  to  us  and  others  whether  or 
not  we  have  learned  to  discern  His  presence, 
and  to  understand  His  impressions. 

Here  our  study  ends.  Has  it  been  worth 
while?  Are  you  yet  sure  that  God  has  a  plan 
for  your  life,  and  that  you  may  know  it?  Has 
12 


any  revelation  come  as  to  the  way?  If  so,  praise 
Him,  and  tell  Him  you  are  willing  to  pay  the 
price  of  knowing  the  plan,  if  only  you  may 
have  the  satisfaction  of  being  consciously  in 
His  appointed  place,  and  doing  the  specific 
work  for  which  He  brought  you  into  the 
world. 


13 


No.  354 

Price  5c.  each.  Dozen  40c.;  three  dozen $1.00;  one  hundred $2.75. 
Kindly  add  postage.  Send  for  list  of  other  tracts. 


Marliss  Publishing  Co., 


Harrington  Park,  N.  J. 


Africa  Inland  mission 

375  CARLTON  AVENUE 
BROOKLYN  5,  N.  Y. 


The  Mission  operates  in  6  fields 
in  East  and  Central  Africa, 
among  60  tribes-  The  work 
began  in  1895  and  in  1952 
occupies  60  stations,  with  a 
force  of  402  missionaries. 


If  desired  for  missionary  distribu' 
tion,  the  Mission  will  supply  this 
pamphlet,  in  reasonable  quantities, 
without  charge. 


IN 

t/.S.A- 


THE  HARRINGTON  PRESS 


The  author  of  this  booklet, 

MISS  H.  VIRGINIA  BLAKESLEE 
is  a  missionary  of  the 
Africa  Inland  Mission. 


Thahu 


H.  Virginia  Blakeslee,  D.O. 

Four  stalwart  Kikuyu  warriors  marched 
down  the  path  leading  to  the  crude  dispensary, 
the  sides  and  roof  of  which  were  thatched 
with  banana  leaf  bark.  They  were  four  of  the 
most  perfect  physical  specimens  to  be  found 
in  Kikuyuland.  Their  bodies  and  hair  were 
adrip  with  a  mixture  of  castor  oil  and  red 
clay.  Each  was  clad  in  two  yards  of  unbleached 
muslin  which  had  been  saturated  with  the  oil 
and  clay  mixture. 

On  their  shoulders  they  carried  a  stretcher. 
It  was  a  homemade  affair  consisting  of  two 
poles  cut  from  a  forest  near  their  village. 
Small  sticks,  willowy  and  strong,  had  been  cut 
and  placed  crosswise  on  the  two  poles.  These 
were  fastened  securely  into  position  by  strings 
made  from  the  inner  bark  of  a  bush  which 
grows  along  the  African  paths.  Dry  banana 
leaves  had  been  laid  on  top  of  the  sticks.  On 
the  leaves  lay  a  Kikuyu  woman  in  a  tattered, 
goat  skin  garb. 

The  warriors  dropped  their  burden  at  the 
dispensary  door  and,  beckoning  to  me  to  come, 
sat  down  on  the  grass.  I  went  to  the  stretcher 
to  examine  the  woman.  I  saw  at  a  glance  that 
she  had  been  ill  for  many  weeks.  The  marks 
of  suffering  were  all  too  evident.  She  was  weak, 
emaciated  and  semi-conscious.  She  had  never 
3 


heard  of  the  love  of  Christ  Jesus,  nor  that  He 
had  given  His  life  on  Calvary’s  cross  that  she 
might  have  life  and  have  it  more  abundantly. 
And  now  she  was  too  weak  and  ill  to  hear  the 
story  we  longed  to  tell  her. 

"How  long  has  she  been  sick?”  I  asked  the 
warriors. 

"We  cannot  remember.” 

"Why  did  you  not  bring  her  to  the  hospital 
before  it  was  too  late?” 

"We  were  called  to  carry  her  in  today.” 

"I  fear  you  have  waited  too  long,  and  it  is 
too  late,  but  we  will  do  our  best  to  help  her.” 

The  sick  woman  was  carried  into  the 
women’s  ward.  Like  the  dispensary,  it  was 
built  of  poles,  sticks  and  banana  leaf  bark. 
Here  she  was  made  as  comfortable  as  possible. 

A  few  days  later  the  man  who  had  sent 
her  came  to  see  her.  Should  he  be  labeled  hus¬ 
band?  We  will  ask  the  reader  to  be  the  judge. 
Entering  the  women’s  ward,  he  found  her  ly¬ 
ing  on  her  bed  beside  the  other  women  pa¬ 
tients.  He  looked  her  over  in  much  the  same 
way  he  would  inspect  a  sick  sheep,  goat  or 
cow,  and  left  the  hospital  to  disappear  over  the 
hills  without  saying  a  word  to  any  one.  Two 
days  later  he  reappeared  with  his  brother. 
Together  at  her  bedside,  they  discussed  her 
condition  and  decided  her  fate. 

"I  do  not  think  she  will  get  well,”  said  the 
man  to  his  brother.  "We  have  already  wasted 
many  sheep  and  goats  on  her,  trying  to  appease 
the  spirits  which  have  brought  this  sickness 
upon  her.  You  know  what  will  happen  if  she 
dies  here.  They  will  tell  us  to  bury  her.  Con, 
4 


tact  with  death  will  make  us  unclean.  We  will 
be  compelled  to  call  the  witch  doctor,  provide 
him  with  a  fat  sheep,  and  pay  him  a  fee  to 
remove  our  defilement.  This  wife  has  never 
borne  me  a  living  child.  According  to  our 
tribal  laws  and  customs,  I  will  be  able  to  re¬ 
claim  from  her  father  most  of  the  sheep  and 
goats  I  paid  for  her,”  reasoned  the  man  out 
loud. 

"Our  best  plan”  said  the  brother,  "is  to  take 
her  to  the  bush  and  end  the  matter." 

Standing  nearby  I  heard  their  conversation. 
Stepping  up  to  where  the  men  stood,  I  made 
a  strong  protest  against  the  action  they  were 
about  to  take.  I  made  a  plea  for  the  woman  to 
be  allowed  to  remain  in  the  hospital,  but  she 
was  their  property.  They  had  bargained  and 
paid  for  her.  Legally,  I  had  no  right  to  inter¬ 
fere  with  a  man’s  property.  Turning  a  deaf 
ear  to  my  proposals,  the  woman’s  owner  seized 
her  right  wrist,  and  at  the  same  moment  his 
brother  laid  hold  of  her  left  arm.  Before  any¬ 
one  could  prevent  them,  they  had  pulled  her 
from  her  bed  and  were  dragging  her  down  the 
aisle  towards  the  door.  In  their  hurry,  they 
jammed  her  shoulder  against  the  door  post. 
Writhing  in  a  spasm  of  pain,  she  looked  up 
into  my  face  pleadingly.  Sick,  weak  and  semi¬ 
conscious  though  she  was,  she  knew  she  was 
being  taken  to  the  bushes.  Unmoved  the  men 
hustled  her  along  the  outside  path.  It  was  dur¬ 
ing  the  dry  season  of  the  year.  The  dust  on 
the  path  was  several  inches  deep.  I  can  still 
see  the  zigzag  trails  in  the  dust  made  by  her 
heels  as  they  dragged  her  down  the  hillside 
5 


path  just  back  of  the  dispensary.  On  they 
went,  never  stopping  until  they  reached  the 
foot  of  the  hill.  Turning  off  the  path  they 
dropped  under  a  clump  of  bushes,  pulling  her 
body  well  under  the  low  hanging  branches. 
"She  will  die  presently,"  they  said,  "let  us 
build  a  fire  yonder  in  the  clearing  and  watch 
to  see  the  end.” 

As  night  came  on  I  could  not  forget  my  pa¬ 
tient  in  the  bushes.  Taking  with  me  some 
stimulant  and  nourishment,  I  made  my  way  to 
the  clump  of  bushes  to  make  one  last  appeal 
to  the  men  to  bring  the  woman  back  to  the 
hospital.  But  they  had  made  their  decision  and 
were  not  to  be  moved  by  my  appeal.  I  turned 
away  towards  the  hill  path  to  wend  my  way 
back  to  a  tiny  room  built  of  poles  and  banana 
leaf  bark  which  I  called  home.  The  darkness 
of  the  night  enveloped  me.  My  thoughts  were 
troubled  within  me.  I  felt  a  lump  rise  in  my 
throat.  The  sense  of  men  and  women  living 
on  the  ridges  all  about  me  in  midnight  dark¬ 
ness,  whose  eyes  were  blinded  to  the  light  of 
love  and  human  kindness,  stifled  me.  I  saw  the 
fires  and  heard  the  songs  sung  in  a  minor  key 
rising  from  hundreds  of  huts  built  on  the  sur¬ 
rounding  hills  and  valleys.  Men,  women  and 
children  were  there,  hundreds  of  them.  They 
had  never  heard  of,  nor  been  touched  by  the 
love  of  God  or  the  Light  of  the  World.  A 
cruel,  ruthless  power  reigned  over  them.  Like 
some  monster,  it  barred  the  entrance  of  the 
light  of  truth,  reason  and  kindness  and  shut 
them  in  to  live  with  darkness. 

Above  the  darkness  of  the  night,  I  saw  the 
6 


stars.  "Though  my  efforts  have  failed  and  my 
patient  lies  in  the  darkness  of  the  bush,”  I 
said  to  myself,  "Thou  sittest  on  thy  throne  in 
the  heavens  above  the  stars.  Thou  hast  caused 
Light  to  shine  in  darkness, — all  shall  be  well. 

Finding  the  path  by  the  light  of  a  lantern, 

I  reached  my  house  and  retired.  The  night 
settled  down  and  drew  its  curtains  across  the 
closed  door  of  another  day. 

I  was  awakened  in  the  early  hours  of  the 
morning  by  the  howls  of  an  African  hyena  as 
he  made  his  way  up  the  ridge  path  in  search 
of  food.  As  I  listened,  I  knew  he  had  caught 
a  scent.  It  was  leading  him  to  a  clump  of 
bushes  just  off  a  narrow  path  at  the  foot  of  a 
hill.  A  succession  of  hideous,  brutal,  triumph¬ 
ant  roars  echoed  through  the  quiet  morning 
air.  I  was  well  acquainted  with  the  ghastly 
habits  of  this  despised  creature  of  the  African 
jungle.  I  knew  he  had  craned  his  huge  neck 
to  reach  beneath  some  low-hanging  branches. 

I  thought  I  could  see  him  snap  his  great  fangs 
into  the  flesh  of  my  patient  and  draw  her  out 
of  her  bushy  bed.  Was  she  dead?  Did  she 
know?  I  shall  never  know.  Lifting  her  in  his 
murderous  jaws,  he  crashed  through  the 
bushes  bearing  her  to  a  path  which  led  down 
the  ridge  to  a  noted  place  I  had  visited,  a  side 
hill  filled  with  caves  where  the  hyenas  live 
and  rear  their  young.  '  It  is  the  village  of  the 
hyenas,”  said  the  Africans  as  they  shivered 
and  passed  hurriedly  on  their  way. 

One  could  see,  scattered  about  the  mouths 
of  the  caves,  bits  of  goat  skin  clothing,  bead 
7 


ornaments  and  odd  fragments  of  human  an¬ 
atomy,  the  tell-tale  remains  of  many  a  victim. 
I  knew  how  when  the  hyena  reached  that 
place,  the  colony  of  hyenas,  great  and  small, 
male  and  female  would  rush  from  the  mouths 
of  the  caves.  Roaring,  snarling,  fighting,  they 
would  battle  for  a  free-for-all  meal.  One 
would  seize  an  arm  and  run  in  one  direction, 
others  would  catch  the  legs  to  plunge  in  the 
opposite  direction. 

I  could  visualize  it  all  in  the  darkness  of 
that  early  morning  hour.  Thoughts  flitted 
through  my  mind  in  rapid  succession.  The 
tragic  end  of  my  patient  was  the  result  of  be¬ 
ing  born,  growing  to  womanhood,  and  dying 
in  a  land  where  darkness  reigned.  Why  had 
tender  ministrations,  love,  honor,  and  respect 
surrounded  me  all  the  days  of  my  life,  while 
the  Kikuyu  woman  had  never  known  the  com¬ 
fort  or  cheer  of  any  of  these  things?  What 
had  I  ever  done  to  have  deserved,  more  than 
the  Kikuyu  women,  all  the  blessings  and  privi¬ 
leges  I  had  enjoyed?  Who  made  the  choice 
which  determined  that  I  should  not  be  born 
in  the  bushes  of  Africa?  God  made  the  choice. 

I  had  done  nothing  to  deserve  the  blessings 
and  privileges  I  enjoyed.  All  had  been  show¬ 
ered  upon  me  by  the  grace  of  God  and  were 
utterly  unmerited  and  undeserved.  True,  but — 
what  saith  His  word?  "God,  who  commanded 
the  light  to  shine  out  of  darkness,  hath  shined 
in  our  hearts  (my  heart),  to  give  the  light  of 
the  knowledge  of  the  glory  of  God  in  the  face 
of  Jesus  Christ.” 

The  dim  light  of  another  day  was  begin- 
8 


ning  to  banish  the  darkness  of  the  night. 
There  were  other  women  at  the  hospital  wait¬ 
ing  to  be  ministered  to.  Others  would  be 
carried  in  that  day.  It  was  to  be  my  glorious 
privilege  to  stand  in  their  midst  and  bring  to 
them  some  knowledge  of  the  Light  that  God 
had  commanded  to  shine  upon  a  Kikuyu  world 
shrouded  in  darkness. 

And  now  just  one  more  picture,  one  of 
light.  Come  with  me  to  a  Kikuyu  village  situ¬ 
ated  in  the  midst  of  this  Kikuyu  tribe,  where 
twenty  low  grass-thatched  huts  are  built  in  a 
semi-circle  over  the  brow  of  a  beautiful  Kikuyu 
ridge.  We  enter  the  village  and  find  ten  old 
Kikuyu  elders  and  a  few  old  women,  sitting 
there  on  low  three-legged  stools.  They  are 
chatting  about  the  weather,  about  the  crops 
and  the  sheep  and  goats.  They  are  very  digni¬ 
fied  and  very  conservative  and  very  well  con¬ 
tent  with  their  own  affairs  and  the  affairs  of 
their  forefathers.  We  look  about  for  a  way  of 
approach  to  them.  After  the  usual  greeting 
w'e  notice  a  sheepskin  stretched  out,  pegged 
down  to  the  earth  with  wooden  pegs  to  dry. 

We  say  to  them,  "Well,  you  have  been  kill¬ 
ing  a  sheep  here  today,  haven’t  you?” 

"Yes,  we  have  been  killing  a  sheep.” 

"And  why  have  you  killed  this  sheep?” 

They  shrug  their  shoulders,  sort  of  wink  to 
each  other  and  because  we  know  something  of 
what  they  think  of  us,  we  know  they  are  say- 
ir.g  to  themselves.  "It’s  no  good  trying  to  tell 
these  white  people  why  we’ve  been  killing  this 
sheep.  They  don’t  know  anything  about  our 
affairs  and  they  could  not  understand.” 

9 


The  old  owner  of  the  ridge  looks  up  at  us 
with  a  very  sage-like  expression  and  tells  us 
that  they  have  been  killing  the  sheep  because 
they  wanted  some  meat  to  eat.  But  we  remem¬ 
ber  that  last  week  when  we  visited  that  village 
the  daughter  of  that  old  man  was  very  sick. 
We  ask  him  if  she  has  recovered  and  is  now 
able  to  go  back  to  the  garden  with  the  other 
women  and  girls  of  the  village  to  cultivate. 

"Bibi,”  says  the  old  man,  have  you  not 
heard,  do  you  not  know  that  my  daughter 
died?” 

"Ah,  now  I  know  why  you  killed  the  sheep 
here  today.  If  1  should  tell  you  old  Agikiyu 
people  about  a  village  in  a  land  where  there  is 
no  sickness,  where  there  is  no  death,  and  no 
parting,  would  you  like  to  go  to  live  in  a  vil¬ 
lage  like  that?” 

And  then  their  eyes  sparkle,  and  they  say, 
"Bibi,  if  you  could  tell  us  about  a  village  like 
that,  we  would  pack  up  all  the  things  of  our 
villages  on  our  backs  and  we  would  move  into 
that  village  tomorrow.” 

"Well,  I  know  of  a  village  like  that.  Not  only 
that,  I  know  the  path  that  leads  to  that  village. 

1  heard  in  my  land  far  over  the  seas  that 
the  Agikiyu  people  have  never  heard  of  that 
village  and  no  one  has  ever  told  them  about 
the  way  that  leads  to  the  village.  I  am  on  my 
way  to  that  village  myself,  but  I  have  stopped 
off  to  live  among  the  Agikiyu  people  for  a 
few  years  to  tell  them  about  the  village  and 
about  the  path  that  leads  to  the  village,  so 
that  in  case  you  want  to  go  to  live  in  this 
village  you  will  not  miss  the  way.  God  made 
10 


this  village  I  tell  you  about.  It  is  a  very  beauti¬ 
ful  village.  God  wants  all  the  people  in  the 
world  to  come  and  live  with  Him  in  that  vil¬ 
lage.  He  wants  them  to  come  so  much  that  He 
sent  a  Messenger  from  that  village  to  this 
world  one  time  and  the  Messenger  said  to  all 
the  people  of  the  world,  ‘In  my  Father’s  house 
are  many  mansions.  I  go  to  prepare  a  place  for 
you.'  This  is  what  He  said.  But  as  much  as 
God  longs  to  have  all  the  people  in  the  world 
come  to  live  in  the  village  there  is  one  reason 
that  prevents  God  from  allowing  a  single  man 
or  woman  of  this  world  to  enter  His  village. 
You  Agikiyu  people  know  about  this  thing.  It 
is  Thahu.  You  know  what  Thahu  is.  It  is  un- 
cleanness  and  defilement.  And  God  said  that 
nothing  defiled  or  unclean  could  ever  enter  His 
village.  But  Love  always  finds  a  way  out.  Now 
when  your  daughter  was  very  sick  and  you 
thought  she  could  not  recover,  you  did  not  al¬ 
low  her  to  die  in  your  village,  did  you?  You 
took  her  to  the  bushes  outside  your  village; 
then  did  you  not  send  your  oldest  son  to  sit  by 
her  to  build  a  fire  in  order  to  prevent  the 
hyenas  from  dragging  her  away  before  life 
left  the  body?” 

"Yes,”  said  the  old  man,  "my  oldest  son 
was  there.” 

“After  your  daughter  died,  you  did  not 
allow  that  son  of  yours  to  come  back  into  the 
village.  Periodically  you  call  the  witch  doctor, 
and  give  him  a  big  fat  sheep  which  he  kills. 
He  then  takes  the  red  blood  of  that  sheep  and 
sprinkles  it  about  your  village  to  take  away  all 
of  the  defilement  and  uncleanness  of  the  vil¬ 
li 


lage.  And  after  that  you  are  very  particular  not 
to  allow  anything  defiling  or  unclean  to  enter 
your  village.  Isn’t  it  strange  that  you  old 
Agikiyu  people  reason  just  as  God  reasons? 
It  isn’t  because  you  hate  your  son  that  you 
do  not  allow  him  to  come  back  into  the  fellow¬ 
ship  of  his  father’s  village!” 

"Ah,  no,”  said  the  old  man,  "you  know  we 
love  our  oldest  son  more  than  all  the  other 
children.  But  if  we  allow  him  to  come  back 
into  the  village  he  would  contaminate  it  by  his 
defilement  because  of  his  contact  with  death.” 

"But  I  know  that  is  why  you  killed  this 
sheep  here  today.  The  witch  doctor  took  of 
the  blood  of  this  sheep  and  sprinkled  it  upon 
your  son  there  in  the  bushes,  alienated  from 
the  fellowship  of  his  father’s  village  because 
of  his  defilement.  Love  always  finds  a  way  and 
God  found  the  way,  too.  Which  do  you  elders 
say  is  the  stronger,  the  blood  of  a  sheep  or  the 
blood  of  a  bull  ?”  They  tell  me  the  blood  of  a 
bull  is  stronger  than  the  blood  of  a  sheep. 

"Which  do  you  say  is  the  stronger,  the 
blood  of  a  bull  or  the  blood  of  a  man?”  They 
say  to  me,  the  blood  of  a  man  is  stronger. 

"There  again  you  reason  just  as  God  did. 
God  said  that  the  blood  of  bulls  and  of  goats 
could  never  take  away  the  sin  of  defilement  of 
the  human  heart.  He  said  it  must  be  the  blood 
of  a  man  who  was  clean  and  pure  and  unde¬ 
filed.  Among  all  the  tribes  and  nations  and 
tongues  of  the  world,  He  could  not  find  one 
man  who  could  meet  those  requirements,  for 
all  had  sinned,  but  He  knew  of  One,  just  One. 
But  that  was  His  Son,  His  best  beloved,  only 
12 


begotten  Son.  Ah,  He  loved  you  Agikiyu 
people  and  a  world  filled  with  men  and 
women  who  were  outside  the  fellowship  of 
the  Father’s  village  because  of  sin  and  wicked 
works,  so  much  that  He  was  willing  to  give  His 
Son.  He  sent  Him  down  to  this  sin-cursed 
world  to  live  among  men  and  women.  He 
taught  them  the  Word  of  God.  One  day  a  group 
of  people  led  Him  away  to  a  tree  where  they 
crucified  Him.  A  group  of  soldiers  speared  His 
side  and  His  blood  trickled  down  His  side. 
Then  God  said  to  all  the  people  of  the  world, 
'Behold  the  Lamb  of  God,  which  taketh 
away  the  sin  of  the  world.’  If  you  will  believe 
in  the  blood  of  the  Lamb  of  God  in  the  very 
same  way  you  have  believed  in  the  blood  of 
this  sheep  the  witch  doctor  killed  here  today, 
He  will  take  away  all  of  your  sin  and  you 
will  be  clean  in  His  sight.  Then  He  can  allow 
you  to  enter  His  village.  When  the  witch 
doctor  dipped  the  bunch  of  .  leaves  in  the  blood 
of  this  sheep  and  sprinkled  it  upon  your  son, 
sitting  in  his  defilement  outside  your  village, 
did  your  son  feel  Thahu  roll  away  into  the 
bushes?” 

"Oh,  no,  he  didn’t  feel  it  roll  into  the 
bushes.” 

"Did  he  see  it  go  into  the  bushes?" 

"No,  he  did  not  see  it  go  into  the  bushes.” 

"How  then  do  you  know  that  your  son  is 
cleansed  of  his  defilement?  Why  aren’t  you 
afraid  to  allow  him  to  come  back  into  your 
village  for  fear  it  may  be  clinging  to  him?” 

"Well,  when  the  witch  doctor  sprinkled  my 
son  with  the  blood  of  this  sheep,  he  said  to  us, 
13 


'It  is  finished.  He  is  clean.’  And  we  believe 
the  words  of  the  witch  doctor.” 

"That  is  the  way  I  know  my  defilement  and 
my  sins  and  my  uncleanness  have  been  taken 
away.  God  said,  'When  I  see  the  blood  of  the 
Lamb  of  God  upon  your  heart,  I  will  pass  over 
your  sin,  I  will  remove  it  as  far  as  the  east  is 
from  the  west.  I  will  remember  it  against  you 
no  more  forever.  I  will  blot  it  out’ — and  I  just 
believe  the  words  of  God. 

"You  old  men  know  what  it  means  for  one 
to  become  the  way  of  another  one.  Many  times 
when  I  come  out  into  these  bushes  of  yours  I 
get  lost.  There  are  so  many  paths  running 
through  the  bushes  in  all  directions  and  I  do 
not  know  which  path  to  take.  I  ask  any  one  of 
you  old  men  who  may  be  passing  by  to  show 
me  the  way  that  leads  to  Kinyanjui  village,  and 
you  reply,  'I  know  the  way  that  leads  to  the 
village.  If  you  come  with  me  I  will  show  you 
the  way.’  You  take  one  of  these  winding  paths 
and  I  follow  you.  You  lead  me  over  a  rough 
path;  my  feet  are  bruised  by  the  rocks  in  the 
way.  There  are  great  overhanging  briars  with 
long  thorns  on  them.  They  scratch  my  arms 
and  my  face,  they  tear  my  clothing.  You  lead 
me  over  unbridged  streams,  through  miry  bogs, 
up  steep  mountain  sides;  but  I  do  not  complain 
or  murmur,  I  follow  you.  By  and  by  if  I  keep 
on  following  you  you  will  bring  me  out  to 
Kinyanjui  village  and  you  have  become  my 
way.  In  the  same  way,  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
said  to  all  of  the  people  of  the  world,  'I  am  the 
way,  the  truth,  and  the  ltfe.’  Having  be¬ 
lieved  in  His  blood  to  take  away  your  sin  and 
14 


defilement,  if  you  will  follow  Him  day  after 
day,  week  after  week,  month  after  month,  it 
may  be  that  He  will  lead  you  over  a  rough 
way;  the  rocks  of  the  way  may  bruise  your 
feet  and  the  thorns  of  the  way  may  pierce 
your  heart.  If  you  follow  Him,  the  old  men 
of  your  district  may  rise  up  and  cast  you  out; 
they  may  take  all  your  sheep  and  goats  from 
you ;  they  may  take  your  garden  lands  away 
from  you.  But  if  you  will  follow  Him,  some  day 
when  you  are  roiled  up  in  your  old  red  blank¬ 
et  they  may  take  you  out  to  the  bushes,  but 
that  will  not  matter.  Then  the  people  of  your 
village  will  peer  out  to  that  spot  where  they 
took  you  and  they  will  say  of  you,  'Kanau  is 
dead.'  But  you  will  not  be  dead.  It  will  be  only 
true  of  you  that  He  who  is  your  Way,  your 
Truth  and  your  Life,  will  have  come  for  you 
and  He  will  have  taken  you  up  into  that  vil¬ 
lage  where  there  is  no  sickness,  where  there 
is  no  pain,  no  death,  no  tears  and  no  parting, 
and  you  will  live  with  Him  there  forever!" 

And  hearing,  they  understand.  "As  my 
Father  hath  sent  me,  even  so  send  I  you.” 


No.  353 


Price  5  cents  each.  Dozen  40  cents;  three  dozen  $1.00;  one  hundred 
$2.75.  Kindly  add  postage.  Send  for  list  of  other  tracts. 


Marliss  Publishing  Co.,  Harrington  Park,  N.  J. 


Africa  Inland  Mission 

375  CARLTON  AVENUE 
BROOKLYN  5,  N.  Y. 


The  Mission  operates  in  6  fields 
in  East  and  Central  Africa, 
among  50  tribes.  The  work 
began  in  1895  and  in  1950 
occupies  59  stations,  with  a 
force  of  369  missionaries. 


If  desired  for  missionary  distribu¬ 
tion,  the  Mission  will  supply  this 
pamphlet,  in  reasonable  quantities, 
without  charge. 


0.S.A- 


THE  HARRIHGT0N  PRES 


0BO 


DOCTRINE 
1  AND  FAITH  BASIS 

The  constitution  of  the 
Africa  Inland  Mission  sets 
forth  in  detail  its  doctrinal 
and  faith  principle.  The  doc¬ 
trinal  basis  may  be  summarized  as 
follows :  We  believe  in  the  trinity 
of  God;  the  deity  and  humanity  of 
Jesus  Christ,  His  virgin  birth,  sub¬ 
stitutionary  atonement,  and  physical 
resurrection ;  the  personality  of  the 
Holy  Spirit  and  the  inspiration  of  the 
Scriptures;  the  sinfulness  of  all  men. 
the  necessity  of  the  new  birth,  and 
salvation  by  grace;  baptism  and  the 
Lord’s  Supper;  the  one  true  church, 
and  its  responsibility  for  world  evan¬ 
gelization  ;  the  Second  Coming;  and 
the  eternity  of  heaven  and  hell. 


As  to  the  faith  principle,  we  believe 
that  God  can  and  does  and  will, 
without  our  presenting  to  men  any 
specific  needs,  meet  all  the  financial 
requirements  of  the  work  through  a 
general  presentation  of  the  Mission’s 
activities  and  objectives.  Thus,  the 
policy  is  and  has  always  been — as 
to  the  work,  full  presentation;  as  to 
funds,  no  solicitation. 


From  Darkness  to  Light 

Through  the  darkness  that  covered  the  face  of  the 
deep  in  eternity  past,  the  voice  of  God  was  heard  to 
say,  “Let  there  be  light."  And  immediately  "there 
was  light,  driving  the  darkness  away,  making  pos¬ 
sible  the  life  of  man  upon  the  earth.  But  there 
came  a  time  when  "men  loved  darkness  rather  than 
light,  because  their  deeds  were  evil."  and  spiritual 
darkness  wrapped  the  world  in  midnight.  Again  a 
light  from  heaven  pierced  the  gloom,  and  God's 
own  Son  came  forth  to  be  the  Light  of  the  world. 

In  loving  condescension,  the  “Father  of  lights, 
with  whom  is  no  variableness,  neither  shadow  of 
turning,"  has  appointed  His  children  heralds  of  that 
light  to  every  shadowed  corner  of  the  earth. 

Among  heathen  lands,  Africa  has  well  deserved 
to  be  called  the  Dark  Continent.  But  God  has  said, 
“Let  there  be  light,"  in  Africa,  too,  and  a  brighter 
day  is  dawning  there  as  missionary  messengers 
have  answered  the  call  of  God  to  preach  the  Word. 
The  following  pages  tell  something  of  the  part 
which  the  Lord  has  privileged  the  Africa  Inland 
Mission  to  have  in  speeding  the  entrance  of  that 
light. 


3 


The  Work  Begun 

On  a  pioneer  station  in 
West  Africa  in  1892,  a 
young  missionary  had  a 
place  of  prayer.  A  well- 
worn  bush  path  led  to 
the  giant  tree  under  which 
Peter  Cameron  Scott  was 
wont  to  read  the  Word 
of  God  and  pour  out  his  soul  for  unsaved  multi¬ 
tudes.  In  that  sacred  trysting  place.,  the  Lord  of 
harvest  directed  his  vision  to  the  interior  of  the  vast 
continent  at  a  time  when  missibns  were  touching 
only  its  coastal  fringes— and  the  Africa  Inland  Mis¬ 
sion  was  born  in  the  young  man’s  heart. 

Before  the  close  of  that  year,  Peter  Scott  was 
carried  out  of  his  station  on  a  stretcher  to  take  ship 
for  home,  his  body  wasted  by  tropical  fever.  It 
looked  as  though  the  vision  had  been  given  in  vain. 
But  in  Philadelphia,  as  his  strength  came  slowly 
back,  he  waited  on  God  for  guidance  to  carry  out 
His  will.  A  group  of  godly  men,  banded  together  for 
the  propagation  of  the  gospel  in  neglected  fields,  was 
willing  to  sponsor  Scott’s  outgoing  and  to  care  for 
the  interests  of  the  infant  work  at  home. 

Seven  additional  volunteers  were  raised  up  in 
answer  to  prayer,  and  the  way  was  opened  for  them 
to  sail  with  Scott  in  August,  1895.  At  the  end  of 
October,  the  party  entered  Africa  from  the  east. 

Leaving  the  ladies  at  the  coast  until  a  mission  site 
could  be  selected  and  rough  dwellings  built,  the 
men  walked  for  a  month,  covering  about  two  hun¬ 
dred  and  fifty  miles  of  forest  and  plains,  to  reach 
the  Kenya  highlands,  peopled  by  thousands  who 
had  never  heard  the  name  of  Christ.  Wild  beasts 
and  wild  country,  Arab  and  native  uprisings,  fever, 
altercations  with  porters— all  combined  to  make  the 
journey  difficult  and  dangerous.  But  at  last  a  suit¬ 
able  place  was  found  at  which  to  begin  operations. 
Nzawi,  in  the  Akamba  tribe.  God  prospered  the 
work.  By  the  end  of  1896  three  other  stations  had 

4 


been  opened  and  a  second  party  of  missionaries  had 
reached  the  field. 

The  home-call  of  the  zealous  young  leader  on 
December  4,  1896,  after  a  severe  attack  of  fever, 
was  a  stunning  blow  to  the  new  mission.  Perhaps 
God  was  but  answering  in  the  way  best  suited  to 
His  eternal  purpose  the  prayer  which  was  the  last 
entry  in  Peter  Cameron  Scott’s  diary:  “Here  I  am, 
Lord,  use  me  in  life  or  death”— and  God  saw  fit 
to  use  him  in  death.  The  years  that  followed  were 
years  of  testing.  Deaths  and  withdrawals  on  the 
field  and  changes  in  the  Council  at  home  tended 
to  discouragement.  There  came  a  time  when  the 
missionary  personnel  was  reduced  to  one  mission¬ 
ary,  alone  in  the  wilds  of  Kenya,  surrounded  by 
gruesome  sights  in  a  famine-stricken  land. 

In  the  face  of  such  a  situation,  it  is  significant 
to  recall  a  statement  made  in  the  first  issue  of 
Hearing  and  Doing  (the  original  publication  of  the 
Mission,  continued  now  as  Inland.  Africa )  .  Speaking 
of  the  new  venture,  the  Council  had  written:  “If  it 
is  of  God,  it  will  succeed;  if  it  is  not  of  Him  it 
will  fail.’’  But  it  was  of  God,  and  He  raised  up 
another  leader  in  the  person  of  Charles  E.  Hurl- 
burt,  President  of  the  Philadelphia  Missionary 
Council  at  the  time  of  Scott’s  death. 

A  short  survey  visit  to  the  field  at  that  time  had 
so  impressed  Mr.  Hurlburt  with  its  need  that,  in 
1901,  he  went  back  to  labor  there,  taking  his  family 
with  him.  He  continued  as  General  Director  until 
the  time  of  his  resignation  in  1926.  Under  his  lead¬ 
ership,  the  Mission  reached  out  from  Kenya  into 
Tanganyika  in  1909,  into  Congo  in  1912,  Uganda 
in  1918,  and  in  1924  to  French  Equatorial  Africa. 
The  Mission  entered  Anglo-Egyptian  Sudan  in  1949. 


The  first  out¬ 
going  party, 
Scott  and  his 
sister  seated 
in  the  center. 


The  Native  Church 

The  throbbing  of  the  church  drum  breaks  the 
stillness  of  the  Lord’s  day  morn  on  many  an  African 
plain  and  deep  in  the  tropical  forest.  It  calls  the 
Christians  to  their  united  worship  in  countless  vil¬ 
lages  where,  only  a  few  short  years  ago,  the  name  of 
Christ  never  had  been  heard. 

A  few  of  the  congregations  are  large  and  meet  in 
substantial  brick  buildings,  and  possibly  a  majority 
of  the  people  are  neatly  dressed  in  semi-European 
clothes.  But  the  worshippers  in  most  of  the  places 
are  scantily  clad  and  gather  in  less  pretentious 
meeting  houses— mud-and-wattle  structures  or  even 
a  native  sleeping  hut.  There  may  be  a  goodly  group 
of  people  or  just  a  little  handful  of  those  who  love 
their  Lord.  But  their  heathen  fetishes  are  gone, 
and  the  promised  presence  of  Christ  is  with  them. 

This  is  the  African  church.  As  its  members,  one 
by  one,  came  to  the  Saviour,  they  were  instructed 
in  the  Word  and  tested  for  evidence  of  true  con¬ 
version  before  they  were  baptized.  Many  of  them 
have  suffered  persecution  for  their  testimony  in 
their  homes  or  villages.  From  among  the  believers 
elders  have  been  chosen  to  govern  the  local  as¬ 
sembly,  counseling  the  younger  Christians,  passing 

6 


African  Christians  gather  for  a 
special  service. 

on  candidates  for  baptism,  and  administering  disci¬ 
pline  where  necessary. 

The  shepherds  of  most  of  these  little  flocks  are 
riot  missionaries.  They  are  African  men  who  have 
given  themselves  to  the  work  of  evangelists.  Such 
men  are  trained  in  one  of  the  Mission’s  Bible 
schools,  located  at  strategic  centers  throughout  the 
field,  and  in  many  instances  have  been  supported 
there  by  their  own  local  church.  Then  they  are 
sent  out— sometimes  only  with  their  own  families, 
sometimes  two  by  two— to  establish  new  gospel 
lighthouses  in  a  land  of  spiritual  darkness.  The 
pioneer  days  may  be  hard,  even  filled  with  opposi¬ 
tion  from  chiefs  and  witch-doctors  who  resent  the 
gospel’s  condemnation  of  their  evil  superstitions. 
But  at  last  a  local  church  comes  into  being. 

From  the  time  of  their  conversion  the  people  are 
taught  to  give  of  their  substance  to  the  Lord.  The 
gifts  may  not  always  be  in  money.  Eggs  as  well  as 
coins  often  find  their  way  into  the  offering  basket. 
In  the  early  days  of  the  work,  the  native  evangelists 
were  supported  by  funds  from  the  homeland,  but 
since  1930  the  African  church  has  shouldered  this 
responsibility  alone— with  blessed  results.  Before 
1930  there  were  about  five  hundred  native  workers 
in  the  Mission’s  entire  constituency.  Now,  in  1952, 
there  is  a  band  three  thousand  strong.  More  than 
this,  some  of  the  native  churches  have  caught  a 
missionary  vision  and  some  are  supporting  their 
representatives  far  afield  in  other  tribes. 

Sectional  conferences  primarily  for  Christians 
gather  the  people  together  at  intervals  for  spiritual 
refreshing.  Prominent  at  these  gatherings  are  the 
African  pastors.  Increasingly,  the  planning  of  such 
conferences  is  falling  into  the  hands  of  these  men 
and  they  fill  important  places  on  the  program  as 
speakers.  In  most  cases,  they  are  men  who,  having 
served  acceptably  as  evangelists  for  a  number  of 
years,  ha\'e  been  chosen  to  return  to  their  Bible 
schools  for  a  special  pastor’s  course  designed  to  fit 
them  for  the  greater  responsibility.  Under  their 
God-directed  leadership  the  African  church,  or¬ 
ganized  officially  in  all  Africa  Inland  Mission  fields 
since  1939,  holds  bright  promise  for  the  future. 

7 


The  Printed  Page 


Much  painstaking  research  lies  behind  the  pub¬ 
lication  of  the  Scriptures  in  any  African  tongue, 
yet  no  labor  is  too  great  to  place  this  spiritual  food 
within  reach  of  every  believer.  Each  advance  into 
new  territory  has  meant  the  learning  and  reducing 
to  writing  of  a  new  unwritten  language.  Scripture 
portions,  hymns,  primers,  tracts,  textbooks  for  the 
schools  have  been  translated.  Native  workers  have 
been  trained  to  set  type  and  are  busy  under  mis¬ 
sionary  supervision  turning  out  literature  on  the 
Mission’s  printing  presses.  (The  central  press  with 
modern  equipment  is  located  in  the  Congo.)  The 
finished  product  is  sold  for  a  price  within  the 
native  means,  and  each  purchase  is  a  cherished 
possession. 

The  Bible  societies  in  England  and  America  have 
printed  the  larger  books— complete  New  Testaments 
and  sometimes  the  whole  Bible.  More  and  more,  as 
parts  of  Africa  are  becoming  literate,  is  the  printed 
page  becoming  a  medium  for  spreading  the  gospel. 

The  East  African  Colportage  Society,  which  came 
into  being  about  ten  years  ago  under  the  direction 
of  one  of  the  Mission’s  workers,  has  a  wide  ministry 
along  this  line.  A  caravan  with  living  accommoda¬ 
tions  and  a  back  which  lifts  up  to  make  a  minia¬ 
ture  bookstore  tours  the  East  African  dependencies 
with  a  supply  of  Christian  literature  in  some  eight¬ 
een  languages.  As  this  is  sold  or  given  away,  there 
are  opportunities  for  personal  work. 


The  Gospel 

Proclaimed 

Evangelism  is  the  key¬ 
note  of  any  missionary  work 
that  counts  for  eternity. 

Every  activity  on  the  field 
should  be  either  a  means 
to  that  end  or  an  outgrowth 
of  its  accomplishment. 

Medical  work,  schools,  Sun¬ 
day  schools,  girls’  homes  are 
but  channels  through  which  Preaching  in  a  village 

lives  are  touched  or  by 

which  Christian  love  is  expressed  to  those  in  need. 
Some  of  these  institutions  are  also  training  centers 
where  those  who  have  been  won  already  through 
evangelism  may  grow  in  grace  and  doctrine.  To  the 
latter  may  be  added  the  Bible  classes,  prayer  meet¬ 
ings,  and  conferences,  as  well  as  the  Bible  schools 
where  young  people  are  prepared  for  fresh  evangelis¬ 
tic  effort. 

Then  there  is  the  ministry  of  direct  evangelism. 
Missionaries  and  African  Christians  alike  participate 
in  this.  Some  give  all  their  time  to  visiting  among 
the  village  people,  sitting  by  them  in  their  huts, 
telling  and  retelling  the  story  of  the  Lamb  of  God. 
Where  a  number  of  heathen  men  are  employed  on 
the  station  for  building  or  other  manual  labor,  they 
are  gathered  together  daily  to  hear  the  gospel.  Many 
stations  have  adopted  the  custom  of  having  two 
services  on  Sunday,  one  for  believers,  the  other  for 
heathen  who  are  interested  enough  to  come. 

Groups  of  Christians  go  out  on  Sunday  afternoons 
to  hold  evangelistic  meetings  in  the  villages  and 
masket  places,  in  Government  hospitals  and  jails,  in 
army  camps  and  mining  centers,  on  tea  and  coffee 
plantations.  Children’s  meetings  also  are  proving  to 
be  a  profitable  means  of  spreading  the  gospel.  Mis¬ 
sionaries  often  spend  days  or  weeks  camping  out 
in  the  bush,  seeking  to  proclaim  the  good  news  of 
salvation  in  places  too  distant  to  reach  from  the 
main  mission  centers. 


9 


The  Body  Mended 

Even  as  the  Lord  in  His  earthly  ministry  had 
compassion  on  the  sick,  so,  where  the  gospel  is 
preached,  there  is  a  concern  for  the  physical  needs 
of  men.  In  heathenism  the  African  believes  that  his 
sickness  is  inflicted  by  evil  spirits  who  have  been 
antagonized  by  some  neglect  of  his  or  through  the 
curse  of  his  enemies.  Therefore  he  calls  in  the 
witch-doctor  to  perform  rites  to  appease  the  spirits. 
The  native  Christian  calls  upon  missionary  doctors 
or  nurses  and  the  native  assistants  they  have  trained, 
who  prayerfully  administer  scientific  remedies. 

The  Africa  Inland  Mission  field  is  divided  into 
medical  areas.  The  center  of  each  is  a  hospital 
which  eventually  will  be  manned  by  two  doctors, 
while  a  dispensary  is  located  on  almost  every  main 
station.  This  two-doctor  plan  provides  for  unbroken 
maintenance  of  hospital  activities  when  furloughs 
occur  and  otherwise  frees  one  doctor  to  work  in  the 
district  while  the  other  runs  the  main  hospital. 

The  medical  work  is  a  means  of  contact  with 
many  who  would  not  otherwise  hear  the  gospel, 
including  Government  officials  and  European 
settlers.  Africans  often  come  in  desperation  when 
native  means  have  failed,  or  because  they  hear  the 
fame  of  the  white  man’s  medicine.  Hundreds  of 
thousands  of  treatments  are  given  annually.  As 
their  diseases  are  treated,  patients  are  told  of  that 
greater  healing  for  the  soul,  and  many  are  saved. 

10 


The  Mind  Trained 


Missionaries  have  had  to  be  the  pioneer  educators 
in  Africa,  and  in  the  early  days  of  the  work  there 
were  no  schools,  but  mission  schools.  Even  though 
in  later  years  Government  schools  have  met  part 
of  the  educational  needs  of  the  various  colonies,  the 
spiritual  welfare  of  Christian  young  people  in  such 
schools  is  a  matter  of  grave  concern.  In  the  A.I.M. 
sphere,  the  native  evangelists  are  trained  to  teach 
as  well  as  preach,  and  where  there  is  a  church 
there  is  usually  some  kind  of  a  school.  Here  new 
converts  learn  to  read  the  Word  of  God,  and  here 
boys  and  girls  of  the  village  come  to  be  taught. 
There  may  be  only  half  a  dozen  pupils,  or  there 
may  be  a  hundred.  But  as  they  study  the  elemen¬ 
tary  subjects,  they  are  given  the  gospel  day  after 
day,  and  in  the  course  of  time  many  of  them  are 
led  to  a  saving  knowledge  of  Christ. 

On  the  main  stations,  trained  natives  work  under 
the  supervision  of  missionaries.  There  may  be  sepa¬ 
rate  sessions  for  the  village  children,  for  the  work¬ 
men,  and  for  women,  as  well  as  an  advanced  section 
offering  the  equivalent  of  fourth,  sixth,  or  even 
eighth  grade  work  in  the  more  civilized  parts  of  the 
field.  Young  people  preparing  for  Bible  school  are 
taught  in  these  schools,  and  they  afford  further  op¬ 
portunities  for  those  who  have  begun  at  the  bush 
schools.  Many  of  the  schools  on  the  stations  have 
dormitories  for  pupils  who  come  from  a  distance. 

The  teaching  ministry  has  borne  fruit  through 
the  years  in  souls  saved  and  in  lives  molded  for  the 
service  of  the  Lord.  It  presents  a  fresh  challenge 
today  with  the  mental  awakening  of  Africa’s  youth. 


A  happy 
group  of 
school  boys 
with  their 
teacher 


The  Women  Transformed 


Only  where  the  influence  of  the 
gospel  has  been  felt  has  woman  been 
given  her  rightful  place.  In  the  heart 
of  heathen  Africa  her  lot  is  one  of 
toil  and  oppression.  Her  first  owner  is 
her  father,  who  sells  her,  perhaps  while 
she  is  still  a  child,  to  the  suitor  who 
will  give  him  the  best  price  in  live¬ 
stock.  Then  she  becomes  the  property 
of  her  husband.  He  may  be  an  old 
man  with  many  other  wives. 
1  She  becomes  a  virtual  slave 
to  them,  bearing  the  brunt 
of  their  ill  will,  and  she 
may  receive  frequent  beat¬ 
ings  from  them  or  her  hus¬ 
band  if  she  fails  to  please. 

Grinding  grain,  cooking 
for  the  family,  bearing  and 
raising  children  are  a  small 
part  of  an  African  woman’s  duties.  She  draws  all 
the  water  for  the  household  use  and  often  has  to 
carry  it  a  long  distance  in  an  earthen  pot  on  her 
head.  She  chops  and  carries  home  the  firewood. 
In  many  tribes  she  raises  the  food  for  the  family 
without  the  help  from  the  menfolk.  She  is  the 
bearer  of  burdens.  In  one  tribe  in  Kenya,  a  man 
will  throw  down  a  load  and  refuse  to  carry  it, 
saying,  “this  is  too  heavy,  it  is  a  woman’s  load.” 
Outward  circumstances  are  less  burdensome  to  the 
woman  whose  life  is  touched  by  the  centers  of 
civilization,  but  the  freedom  and  ease  often  are 
attended  by  a  moral  looseness  that  makes  her  lib¬ 
erty  a  doubtful  blessing. 


To  reach  African  women  for  Christ  is  not  as 
simple  as  to  reach  the  men.  Their  senses  have  been 
so  dulled  by  generations  of  degradation  that  they 
are  slow  of  comprehension.  Yet  even  here  the 
Spirit  of  God  has  performed  miracles,  and  hundreds 
of  African  women  now  live  radiant  Christian  lives. 


12 


A  girls'  physical  training  class 


Girls’  homes  have  played  an  important  part  in 
the  development  of  Christian  womanhood.  In  the 
early  days  of  the  work,  young  men  were  saved.  They 
must  not  be  unequally  yoked  with  unbelievers,  but 
where  was  a  man  to  find  a  Christian  wife?  Some 
would  pay  a  girl’s  dowry  and  bring  her  to  the 
missionaries  “to  be  taught  the  words  of  God”  be¬ 
fore  the  marriage.  Heathen  girls,  dreading  cruel 
initiation  rites  by  which  they  must  enter  woman¬ 
hood  in  some  tribes,  or  fearing  the  husbands  to 
whom  they  were  sold,  would  run  for  refuge  to  the 
mission  stations.  Thus  girls’  work  was  begun. 

Now  there  are  girls’  homes  on  many  of  the  main 
stations,  housing  altogether  hundreds  of  young 
girls.  Some  are  for  Christians  only.  Others  are  a 
refuge  for  heathen  girls  as  well.  In  addition  to 
Bible  instruction  and  the  three  R’s,  they  are 
taught  sewing,  hygiene,  and  homemaking.  They 
are  given  experience  in  Sunday-school  and  village 
work,  so  that  they  may  become  Christian  workers 
as  well  as  godly  wives  for  Africa’s  future  homes. 

The  women  have  been  entering  into  their  spir¬ 
itual  heritage  in  a  remarkable  way  all  over  the 
field  ever  since  the  first  women’s  conference,  held 
in  Kenya  in  1934.  The  same  year  saw  the  organiza¬ 
tion  of  the  Women  Messengers  among  the  Alur  in 
Congo.  These  Christian  women  were  banded  to¬ 
gether  for  fellowship  and  for  making  a  systematic 
effort  to  win  their  heathen  sisters  to  Christ. 

In  1937  the  Basukuma  women  in  Tanganyika 
began  to  have  their  own  conferences,  with  much 
blessing.  Since  that  time,  the  awakening  among  the 
womenfolk  has  spread  rapidly  from  tribe  to  tribe. 


Athearaka 
dancers  in 
northern 
Kitui 

The  Challenge 

God’s  call  to  Peter  Cameron  Scott  was  to  carry 
the  gospel  to  the  great  neglected  interior  of  Africa. 
Thus,  his  successors  have  endeavored  not  to  build 
on  other  men's  foundations.  Some  efforts  to  advance 
have  been  retarded,  but  new  areas  have  been  en¬ 
tered,  new  stations  opened,  and  even  now  prepara¬ 
tions  are  being  made  to  possess  the  land  as  yet 
unreached.  The  outlook  for  the  days  ahead  indi¬ 
cates  an  open  door  as  well  as  possible  restrictions 
in  the  propagation  of  the  gospel. 

Undoubtedly  some  of  the  experienced  missionaries 
will  open  up  new  territory,  but  much  of  the  re¬ 
maining  area  will  be  reached  more  rapidly  and 
effectively  by  the  African  personnel.  Hence  the 
great  challenge  today  is  for  a  Bible  teaching  minis¬ 
try.  Present  Bible  schools  call  for  proper  staffs,  and 
more  such  schools  should  be  opened.  Translation 
work  presents  a  parallel  challenge,  for,  although 
the  New  Testament  is  printed  in  many  local  lan¬ 
guages,  most  tribes  still  wait  for  the  whole  Bible. 

May  it  not  be  also  that  such  facilities  as  radio  and 
airplanes  will  have  a  part  in  speeding  the  proclama¬ 
tion  of  the  gospel  and  workers  with  a  background 
of  experience  with  them  be  found  useful? 

However,  the  prospect  of  successful  advance  in 
Africa  in  the  immediate  future  is  not  nearly  so  de¬ 
pendent  upon  circumstances  in  Africa  itself  as  upon 
unreached  areas  in  the  hearts  of  God’s  own  here  at 
home.  These  days  call  for  Christians  to  be  much 
on  their  knees  in  faithful  intercession  that  His  own 
in  Africa,  foreign  and  national  witnesses  alike,  may 
experience  God’s  power  in  their  life  and  ministry. 

14 


Some  Questions  Answered 

How  is  the  Africa  inland  Mission  governed? 

The  Mission  is  governed  by  the  North  American 
Home  Council,  by  other  home  councils  formed  by  1! 
in  other  countries,  and  by  field  councils.  At  present 
the  only  other  home  council  is  that  for  the  British 
Isles.  There  are  three  field  councils — Kenya,  Tan¬ 
ganyika,  and  Congo  (which  includes  Uganda  and 
French  Equatorial  Africa).  An  interfield  Directorate 
is  composed  of  representatives  from  all  the  fields. 

How  may  one  contact  Mission  representatives 
local  ly? 

District  Committees  are  located  in  Atlanta,  Chi¬ 
cago,  Detroit,  Grand  Rapids,  Los  Angeles,  the  Twin 
Cities,  Northeastern  Pennsylvania,  Philadelphia,  and 
Washington,  D.  C.  Addresses  may  be  obtained  from 
Headquarters. 

Whet  are  the  minimum  requirements  for 
candidates? 

As  a  general  rule,  although  each  case  is  decided 
on  its  own  merits,  candidates  must  not  be  over  thirty 
years  of  age  and  must  have  had  at  least  a  high 
school  education  and  training  in  an  approved  Bible 
school,  or  the  equivalent. 

What  provision  is  made  for  the  education  of 
missionaries'  children? 

Two  boarding  schools  are  maintained  for  children 
of  missionaries — Rift  Valley  Academy,  at  Kija'be, 
Kenya,  and  Rethi  Academy,  at  Rethi,  Congo.  Full 
grammar  and  high  school  grades  are  offered  there. 

What  provision  is  made  for  retirement  of 
missionaries? 

At  Media,  just  outside  Minneola,  Florida,  is  a  rest 
and  retirement  home  for  missionaries  of  the  society. 
Thirty  acres  of  land  fronting  on  Lake  Minneola 
assure  sufficient  grounds  for  the  erection  of  as  many 
cottages  as  shall  ever  be  required.  Several  are 
built  now. 

What  Eiterature  is  published  by  the  Mission? 

Inland  Africa  is  the  bi-monthly  official  magazine. 
The  subscription  price  is  seventy-five  cents  yearly. 
A  brief  praise  and  prayer  letter  is  issued  at  intervals. 
This  is  sent  to  all  who  request  it.  Other  leaflets 
telling  of  the  work  are  published  from  time  to  time. 
They  may  be  obtained  by  writing  to  Headquarters. 

Also,  two  books,  “Sheee-ja”  by  Lucilda  A.  Newton 
(Price  50e).  and  ‘’Trumpet  Notes  in  Congo”  by  Aus¬ 
tin  Paul  (Price  $1.50)  have  been  published.  They 
may  be  obtained  by  writing  to  Headquarters. 

15 


*?ieitd&  4W  Station!. 


AFRICA  INLAND  MISSION 

HEADQUARTERS 

375  CARLTON  AYE.,  BROOKLYN  38,  N.  Y. 
OFFICERS 

Howard  W.  Ferrin,  LL.D . President 

Richard  H.  Seume  .  Vice-President 

].  Arthur  Reed .  Treasurer 

Ralph  T.  Davis,  D.D .  General  Secretary 

J.  B,  Henry  .  Associate  General  Secretary 

CANADIAN  COMMITTEE 
1  Glencrest  Blvd.,  Toronto  13,  Ontario 

George  W.  Weppler  .  Executive  Secretary 

Stewart  L.  Boehmer .  Chairman 

BRITISH  HOME  COUNCIL 

3  John  St.,  Bedford  Row,  London,  W.C.l,.  England 

Lieut.-General  Sir  Arthur  Smith  .  President 

D.  M.  Miller  .  Deputation  Secretary 

P.  S.  Henman  .  Chairman  and  Treasurer 


Ps\NTe0 


O.S.A- 


30  M  - 1  0-52 


IK  !  PS  II  G  8  $ 

oi  ^J*Ceni£ci 


A  Kipsigis  girl  in  the  skin  hood  which  she  wears 
after  the  tribal  initiation  rites. 


rp 

JL  HE  Kipsigis  tribe  occupies  over  a  thousand 
square  miles  of  undulating  bush  country  about  fifty 
miles  southeast  of  Lake  Victoria  in  Kenya.  Originally 
these  people  migrated  down  the  Nile,  so  they  are 
Nilotics,  though  certain  classifications  call  them 
Nilo-Hamitics.  There  are  eight  allied  tribes  and 
dialects,  with  a  total  of  half  a  million  people,  located 
in  a  semicircle  from  Mt.  Elgon  to  the  Tanganyika 
border. 

The  Kipsigis,  who  number  about  125,000,  migrated 
to  this  area  about  a  hundred  and  fifty  years  ago, 
driving  out  the  Masai  and  the  Kisii.  When  the 
British  Government  arrived  at  the  turn  of  the  century, 
the  Kipsigis  were  engaged  in  a  series  of  raids  to 
enlarge  their  borders.  The  last  large  raids  took 
place  between  1905  and  1908. 

The  society  of  the  Kipsigis  was  moulded  by  a 
nomadic  form  of  existence.  However,  great  changes 
have  taken  place  in  tribal  life,  until  now  the  Kipsigis 
are  predominantly  agricultural,  owing  to  the  abund¬ 
ant  rainfall  coupled  with  the  demand  of  European 
farmers  and  tea  estates  for  food  for  their  laborers. 
Kipsigis  men  grow  corn  for  sale,  although  the  women 
bear  the  entire  responsibility  of  raising  the  family 
supply  of  wimbi,  which  is  the  staple  grain  food  of 
the  tribe.  Land  tenure  is  a  growing  problem,  for 
originally  there  was  no  type  of  land  ownership  among 
the  Kipsigis,  nor  any  laws  of  primogeniture.  One 
wonders  what  will  happen  when  the  available  land 
is  used  up. 

The  economy  of  the  Kipsigis  is  based  on  live¬ 
stock,  and  the  problem  of  overstocking  is  acute,  for 
all  wives  are  bought  and  sold  for  cattle,  sheep,  and 
goats.  A  man  must  pay  two  heifers,  two  cows  with 


Page  3 


A  “progressive” 
home. 


1 

calves,  one 
bull  or  ox, 
and  approxi¬ 
mately  six¬ 
teen  sheep 
and  goats  for 
a  wife.  The 
number  of 
wives  a  man 
may  have  is  conditioned  only  by  his  ability  to  pay 
for  them  in  stock.  Consequently  the  land  is  being 
denuded  by  overstocking,  and  every  effort  to  better 
native  stock  by  culling  and  importing  more  useful 
breeds  is  fanatically  opposed. 

The  church  is  vigorously  endeavoring  to  combat 
this  evil  first  by  its  unequivocal  stand  against  poly¬ 
gamy  and  second  by  educating  church  members  to 
give  their  daughters  and  not  to  treat  them  as  chattels. 
Only  when  Jesus  Christ  enters  the  hearts  of  the 
people  is  there  any  response  to  an  attitude  of  love  as 
a  basis  for  marriage.  The  Author  of  love  is  the  only 
One  who  can  bring  love  to  souls  in  a  benighted 
condition.  Christianity,  and  with  it  the  resultant 
education  of  women,  will  be  the  only  solution  to  the 
problem  of  overstocking  and  ultimate  starvation. 

Huts  are  dotted  over  the  country  without  any 
effort  at  uniformity  of  size,  number,  or  position. 
Each  family  has  its  own  garden  and  perhaps  interest 
in  a  communal  grazing  area.  Living  conditions  are 
undergoing  a  change.  Before  the  missionaries  came, 
the  Kipsigis  built  very  temporary  huts  to  last  a  year 
or  two,  but  gradually,  as  the  people  have  been 
settling,  the  huts  have  become  more  permanent. 

The  average  hut  is  a  round  building  about  twenty 
feet  in  diameter,  with  a  roof  like  a  half  orange 
inverted  to  cover  the  low  walls  made  of  upright 


Page  4 


posts  filled  in  with  mud  and  cow  manure.  A  ceiling 
about  four  feet  from  the  floor  becomes  the  storage 
room  for  the  grain.  Usually  a  family  has  three  huts, 
one  large  one  for  dwelling,  a  smaller  one  for  the 
older  children  and  the  calves,  and  a  corncrib. 

The  Kipsigis  know  very  little  about  beauty  as  we 
know  it.  No  flowers  are  fostered  in  the  yard.  The 
goats  would  eat  them  anyway.  No  one  ever  thought 
of  a  tablecloth,  as  there  are  no  tables.  Everyone  eats 
right  on  the  floor  with  the  food  placed  on  a  cowhide 
or  in  a  basket.  The  ceilings  are  too  low  for  chairs. 
Smoke  from  the  open  fireplaces  coats  all  the  interiors 
of  the  huts  with  soot,  even  as  heathenism  has 
blackened  the  hearts  of  the  people  who  live  in  them. 

In  contrast  to  most  African  tribes,  the  Kipsigis 
are  not  animists.  As  recently  as  seventy  years  ago, 
they  had  a  very  pure  form  of  sun  worship  with  an 
elaborate  system  of  sacrifices  and  propitiatory  rites. 
Certain  high  places  were  marked  out  with  a  fenced- 
off  area  and  an  altar  inside  where  sacrifices  of  sheep 
and  goats  were  offered.  The  blood  was  the  important 
factor.  While  the  worshipers  faced  the  east  in  the 
morning,  the  blood  was  poured  out  over  the  altar  or 
sprinkled  on  or  toward  the  congregation.  Every  major 
event  was  marked  by  these 
rites.  A  famine,  a  plague,  a 
pestilence,  or  war  were  occa¬ 
sions  for  everyone  to  attend 
a  gapgoros.  However,  as  time 
went  on,  people  did  not  want 
to  walk  five  or  six,  or  even 
three  miles  to  the  high  places, 
so  bits  of  the  fences  were 
pulled  up  and  carried  home. 

These  were  placed  on  the  east 
side  of  the  main  dwellings, 

Interior  view  of  a  typical 

Kipsigis  hut. 


A  young  Kipsigis  man. 


and  today  all  tribal  ceremony  is 
carried  out  around  these  em¬ 
blems  of  sun  worship. 

During  the  wars  with  the 
Masai,  the  Kipsigis  overcame 
some  of  the  Masai  villages  and 
oddly  enough  appropriated  some 
Masai  witch  doctors.  These 
Lai  bon,  as  they  were  called, 
promised  all  kinds  of  medicines 
and  immunities  to  the  Kipsigis  and  thus  slowly 
fastened  their  tenacles  on  the  life  of  the  tribe.  They 
claimed  to  be  able  to  produce  charms  of  great 
potency  and  announced  reasons  for  military  setbacks, 
diseases,  and  every  kind  of  trouble.  They  were  an 
authoritative  group  having  an  extremely  efficient 
secret  service.  All  who  denied  their  rule  were  in 
danger  of  being  poisoned  or  of  having  their  property 
robbed  or  destroyed.  Gradually  the  Laibon  got  to 
the  place  where  they  were  usurping  the  authority  of 
chiefs  and  dictating  policy  in  tribal  affairs  that 
normally  were  settled  by  a  communal  meeting  of 
elders. 

Thus  the  Laibon  came  to  be  a  serious  menace. 
They  retarded  all  ideas  presented  by  the  British 
Government  officials  and  warred  strenuously  with  the 
missionaries.  They  incited  the  tribe  to  all  kinds  of 
acts  against  the  Government,  and  robbery  and  murder 
were  rampant.  An  all-out  offensive  by  the  Govern¬ 
ment  against  the  Laibon  was  launched  in  1932.  It 
resulted  in  the  Government  banishing  the  whole  clan 
of  Laibon,  one  hundred  and  seventy-eight  persons,  to 
a  peninsula  in  Lake  Victoria. 

The  first  missionaries  began  work  in  the  tribe  in 
1905,  but  in  1921  not  more  than  fifty  Christians 
could  be  counted,  and  they  were  only  in  the  far 

Page  6 


,  ■'?»  i 


A  young  married  woman. 

eastern  corner  of  the  tribe.  In 
1923,  when  the  Africa  Inland 
Mission  applied  for  a  mission 
station,  the  Laibon  advised  the 
chief  to  offer  a  ten-acre  plot  at 
Litein,  because  that  particular 
hilltop  was  struck  frequently  by 
lightning.  The  plot  was  ac¬ 
cepted,  and  the  Lord  has  pro¬ 
tected  everyone  through  the 
years.  No  harm  has  been  done  by  lightning  striking. 

The  church  went  through  a  stormy  period  during 
which  the  huts  of  Christians  were  burned  down  and 
all  types  of  persecution  enacted  against  them.  It  can 
be  said  truly  and  literally  that  when  the  station  at 
Litein  was  started  the  Kipsigis  were  without  a  tribal 
religion,  for  they  had  largely  forsaken  their  sun 
worship  and  were  being  ruled  morally  and  physically 
by  the  Laibon. 

Tribal  customs  are  in  a  large  measure  responsible 
for  the  response,  or  nonresponse,  to  the  preaching 
of  the  gospel.  The  tribe  is  extremely  warlike  and 
fearless  in  any  type  of  endeavor  needing  bravery.  The 
conditioning  for  this  begins  when  the  children  are 
very  young.  At  the  age  of  four  or  five,  boys  and  girls 
must  burn  three  or  four  marks  up  and  down  the 
front  of  their  thighs.  They  must  not  cry  or  show  any 
tears  while  doing  this.  If  they  fail,  they  are  required 
to  repeat  the  process  on  their  upper  arms.  When  they 
are  about  six  or  seven  years  old,  they  must  pierce 
the  lobes  of  their  ears  and  begin  to  stretch  them; 
again  they  must  show  no  emotion.  As  soon  as  the 
second  teeth  appear  in  the  lower  jaw,  the  two  middle 
incisors  must  be  levered  out. 

The  greatest  trial  of  all  is  consummated  in  the 
circumcision  initiation  rites  which  both  boys  and 


Page  7 


girls  must  go  through.  Many  of  them  faint 
under  the  operation,  but  they  must  not 
make  any  sign  or  sound  of  pain.  For  six 
to  eight  months  thereafter  boys  wear  a 
hood  and  speak  only  to  men  and  boys.  The 
girls  also  wear  a  hood  of  skins  with  peep¬ 
holes  cut  through  for  their  eyes  and  are 
allowed  to  speak  to  and  be  seen  by  women 
only.  These  customs  are  a  sound  condition¬ 
ing  for  ignoring  pain  and  death.  No  Kip- 
sigis  woman  is  allowed  to  mourn  for  the  dead  more 
than  fifteen  minutes,  and  men  are  not  allowed  to 
mourn  at  all.  Few  have  been  the  times  in  which  tears 
have  been  seen  in  Kipsigis  eyes  when  the  gospel  has 
been  preached. 

One  result  of  the  female  circumcision  and  initia¬ 
tion  rites  has  been  a  definite  retarding  of  mental 
capability  for  at  least  five  to  ten  years  after  the  rites. 
In  the  girls’  homes  at  Litein  an  average  of  forty 
girls  has  been  maintained  for  twenty-five  years.  More 
than  half  of  them  have  been  girls  who  have  under¬ 
gone  the  rites.  Of  these,  only  three  girls  have  been 
able  to  imbibe  enough  education  to  pass  the  fourth 
grade.  Girls  who  have  not  undergone  the  rites  are 
intelligent  and  have  no  trouble  with  their  school 
work. 

Kipsigis  fathers  consider  that  their  daughters  are 
brainless  bearers  of  bur¬ 
dens  and  hoers  of  gardens 
and  that  they  have  no  need 
for  schooling.  Usually  the 
girls  must  have  some  rea¬ 
son  for  taking  refuge  in 
the  homes,  such  as  being 
treated  with  unreasonable 
cruelty  or  being  forced  in¬ 


to  an  undesirable  marriage.  Therefore,  in 
the  past,  the  majority  were  nearly  grown 
and  needed  to  earn  their  way.  This  was 
made  possible  by  putting  them  to  work  on 
the  station  grounds,  in  the  hospital,  and  in 
the  homes  of  the  missionaries.  In  later 
years  the  second  generation  Christian  girls 
have  come.  They  pay  fees  but  are  given 
some  training  in  housework  also.  The  re¬ 
sult  of  this  is  very  gratifying  when  they 
are  seen  in  homes  of  their  own. 

Another  class  of  Kipsigis  girl  is  cared  for  at  the 
schools,  one  most  difficult  with  which  to  deal.  Be¬ 
cause  tribal  custom  decrees  that  all  illegitimate  babies 
be  put  to  death,  the  Government  sponsors  a  refuge 
at  Litein  for  unmarried  expectant  mothers.  Hard  as 
some  of  these  girls  are,  even  among  them  the  gospel 
has  proved  to  be  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation. 

Kipsigis  boys  are  taught  that  before  marriage  they 
must  do  a  brave  deed  —  kill  a  person  from  another 
tribe,  rob  some  cattle  from  another  tribe  or  a  white 
man,  earn  a  lot  of  money  away  from  the  tribe,  or 
kill  a  lion,  elephant,  rhino,  or  buffalo.  This  factor 
alone  tends  to  keep  them  in  hot  water  with  the 
Government. 

Any  response  to  the  proclamation  of  the  gospel 
cuts  across  the  whole  tenor  of  Kipsigis  life.  When 
a  Kipsigis  allows  himself 
to  accept  the  enlighten¬ 
ment  of  the  Holy  Spirit, 
love  is  generated  in  his 
heart.  This  love  is  the  ex¬ 
pression  of  a  new  creation, 
and  its  outworking  calls 
for  a  type  of  love  in  the 
home  which  is  entirely 


Herd  boys  in 
the  Kipsigis 
reserve. 


Page  8 


Page  9 


One  of  the  many  water 
mills  for  grinding  flour. 

foreign  to  an  unregenerate 
Kipsigis.  Thus  the  saved  Kip- 
sigis  will  maintain  one  wife 
and  treat  her  as  a  human 
being  subject  to  the  same 
moral  rights  as  himself.  This 
monogamy  is  adverse  to  the 
teaching  of  the  tribe.  When 
love  reigns,  the  idea  of  pur¬ 
chasing  a  wife  becomes  ab- 
horent,  and  the  economical 
outlook  of  the  tribe,  including  the  entire  monetary 
system,  is  shattered. 

The  Christians  do  not  allow  their  children  to  go 
through  tribal  initiation  rites  because  of  the  spiritual 
and  physical  harm  entailed.  Thus,  what  about  the 
standing  of  the  boys  and  girls  for  marriages,  and 
how  will  the  boys  be  allowed  to  take  their  share  in 
tribal  life?  Again,  all  children  must  herd  sheep, 
goats,  and  cattle.  Christian  parents  insist  on  their 
children  going  to  school  to  learn  to  read  and  write, 
for  there  will  be  no  effective  future  leadership  in  the 
church  if  there  are  none  who  can  read  their  Bibles. 
The  heathen  children  see  the  Christian  boys  and  girls 
going  to  school  and  naturally  forsake  their  flocks  for 
an  education.  Endless  tribal  discussion  has  originated 
from  the  problems  created  by  this  new  outlook. 

In  1921,  Mr.  A.  M.  Andersen  started  a  church  and 
a  small  boys’  boarding  school  at  Lumbwa  station  and 
commenced  to  reach  the  tribe.  About  eight  litt'e 
bush  churches  and  schools  were  functioning  when 
permission  was  granted  for  the  mission  station  at 
Litein  in  the  center  of  the  tribe.  Soon  it  became 
evident  that  in  order  to  have  an  indigenous  work  it 
was  necessary  to  produce  some  kind  of  income  that 
natives  could  tithe. 


Page  10 


Mr.  Andersen  became  interested  in  the  potential 
value  of  the  fertile  land  and  trained  the  first  oxen  to 
plough.  Then  he  produced  a  primitive  type  of  water 
mill  for  grinding  flour.  The  simplicity  of  the  mills 
and  the  fact  that  they  can  be  left  for  hours  at  a 
time  endeared  them  to  a  rather  indolent  people,  so 
that  by  1946  there  were  over  six  hundred  of  them 
up  and  down  the  swift  streams.  Thus,  by  ploughing 
corn,  milling  it,  and  selling  flour  to  the  tea  estates 
and  private  farms,  an  excellent  income  has  developed 
for  the  Kipsigis,  for  the  farms  employ  over  twenty- 
five  thousand  persons,  mostly  natives  of  other  tribes. 

The  church  in  Kipsigis  has  developed  in  the 
twenty-five  years  from  a  few  Christians  meeting  in 
small  grass  shacks  in  a  wilderness  to  a  church  of 
about  seven  hundred  adults  in  good  standing  and 
approximately  three  thousand  adherents.  There  are 
forty  outchurches  and  an  equivalent  number  of 
schools.  The  native  church  has  taken  full  responsi¬ 
bility  for  paying  for  all  evangelists  and  buildings, 
and  a  committee  of  elders  appointed  by  the  church 
elders  from  among  their  group  supervises  all  the 

Old  Kipsigis  men  sucking  their  fill  of  beer. 


church  schools.  The  missionary  is  the  central  guide 
and  adjudicator  and  the  shepherd  of  a  growing 
church  organization.  Herein  lies  the  necessity  of 
experience  and  sound  education  and  above  all  common 
sense  —  placed  on  the  altar  of  obedience  to  Christ. 

The  situation  is  changing  at  an  accelerating  pace. 
The  Government  is  strenuously  pushing  education 
and  uses  all  means  at  its  disposal.  So  far  the  Mission 
has  bought  up  the  opportunity  and,  while  maintain¬ 
ing  Government  standards  in  school,  has  the  oppor¬ 
tunity  of  reaching  every  scholar  for  Jesus  every  day 
of  school.  Owing  to  changing  times,  it  may  be  that 
the  Government  will  take  over  the  educational  pro¬ 
gram  of  the  reserve.  When  this  happens,  the  church 
will  have  to  do  something  else  to  reach  the  young 
people,  but  as  long  as  this  avenue  is  open,  it  has 
proved  the  most  fruitful  source  of  converts  especially 
during  the  last  ten  years. 

In  1941,  there  was  a  great  demand  for  trained 
teachers  in  all  our  schools  as  the  Government  was 
raising  requirements.  A  training  class  was  started  at 
Litein  which  furnished  the  native  school  inspector 
and  five  headmasters  in  the  larger  outschools.  Then 
shortness  of  staff  necessitated  the  leaving  of  teacher 
training  to  neighboring  missions  until  1947,  when 
the  Government  took  over  the  course,  to  be  done  at 
the  Government  school  which  taught  the  highest 
grades  for  the  district  in  which  it  was  located. 

As  nearly 
a  dozen  mis¬ 
sion  lads 
were  in  the 
class  at  the 
Govern- 
ment  school 
and  as  the 

The  teacher 
training  class. 


A  group 

Christian  women 

Government  was  total¬ 
ly  unprepared  for  the 
job,  one  of  the  Litein 
missionaries  offered  to 
take  over  temporarily. 

During  the  missionary’s 
stay  at  the  Government 
school,  she  was  able  to 
include  Bible  classes  in  the  schedule,  to  hold  Bible 
studies  for  all  the  boys  who  wanted  to  attend,  and  to 
conduct  school  chapel  and  sometimes  to  hold  Sunday 
services. 

So  far  the  Africa  Inland  Mission  has  been  almost 
the  sole  producer  of  schoolbooks  and  literature  in 
Kipsigis.  This  is  an  unexcelled  opportunity,  for  each 
book  contains  somewhere  the  plan  of  salvation.  Thus 
far,  four  separate  readers  have  been  produced,  two 
hundred  and  fifty  hymns  and  songs,  schemes  of 
work  and  Sunday-school  material,  and  much  material 
on  teaching  the  Bible  as  well  as  portions  of  Scripture. 
The  Nandi  Bible  is  being  used,  but  it  is  hoped  that 
a  New  Testament  in  Kipsigis  will  be  printed  shortly. 
This  will  help  the  children  and  older  folk,  for  it 
will  follow  the  Kipsigis  dialectal  form  more  closely 
than  the  Nandi. 

In  the  realm  of  social  betterment,  the  Government 
is  making  strenuous  efforts.  Twenty-eight  markets 
have  been  strategically  located  about  the  reserve, 
specifically  designed  to  get  people  off  the  land  and 
into  villages  with  secondary  industries.  It  is  hoped 
that  each  center  may  become  a  village  with  artisans 
of  all  sorts  —  shoemakers,  furniture  makers,  butchers, 
millers,  owners  of  tea  shops  and  coffee  shops  —  and 
perhaps  a  community  building  where  educational 
programs,  films,  and  lectures  may  be  given,  as  well 
as  a  recreational  field  for  football  and  drill  competi- 


Page  13 


tions.  In  the  future,  there  may  be  demands  for  schools 
at  these  village  renters,  and  the  church  must  plan 
now  to  occupy  the  strategic  places.  Future  mission¬ 
aries  may  find  new  opportunities  in  this  new  devel¬ 
opment. 

Land  tenure  is  now  a  critical  issue,  and  Govern¬ 
ment  is  stepping  in  here  also,  hoping  for  a  solution. 
Here  again  much  careful  planning  is  necessary  to 
place  churches  in  the  correct  position  before  land 
becomes  tied  up  with  regulations  which  might  make 
it  extremely  difficult  to  locate  churches. 

The  church  in  Kipsigis  has  before  it  a  task  with 
unparalleled  opportunity,  but,  owing  to  the  peculiar 
nature  of  the  tribe,  the  mission  must  reach  into 
every  sphere  of  life  and  grapple  with  the  problems. 
Only  time  will  tell  if  the  church  will  be  able  to 
overcome  the  initiation  rites  for  the  tribe  as  a  whole, 
even  though  it  has  taken  a  .  firm  stand  against  them 
for  believers.  And  what  about  the  dowry  system? 
Will  the  church  hold  a  sound  position  in  the  new 
shake-up  of  community  life  that  is  upon  the  people 
of  the  Kipsigis  tribe  even  at  the  present  time? 

Unquestionably  the  greatest  single  factor  which  has 
affected  the  Kipsigis  in  the  last  twenty  years  has 
been  the  church.  The  urgency  of  the  situation  at  the 
moment  is  almost  breath-taking,  the  opportunities 
are  such  as  have  never  been  presented  before  to  the 
church  in  Kipsigis.  Workers  to  undertake  girls’  work, 
to  establish  a  Bible  school,  and  to  train  teachers  are 
urgently  needed.  There  is  an  opportunity  unexcelled 
for  those  who  catch  the  vision  of  shaping  the  destiny 
of  the  church  in  Kipsigis  and  perhaps  the  destiny  of 
a  whole  tribe. 


PHOTOGRAPHS  TO  PAGE  11  FURNISHED  BV 
Page  14  P8E§S  LIAISON  AND  AFRICAN  INFORMATION  SERVICES, 

NAIROBI,  KENYA 


A  teacher  using  the  tract,  “The  way  of  Salvation,” 
to  explain  the  gospel  to  one  of  his  pupils. 


-A.  3.  W.  Publications 

Books 

Trumpet  Notes  in  Congo  by  Austin  Paul _ #1.50 

Sheee-ja  by  Luciida  A.  Newton _  .50 

Bi-Monthly  Magazine 

Inland  Africa  _ _ _ yearly  .75 

Free  Pamphlets 
"Go  .  .  .  Evangelize” 

"I  Will  Build  My  Church” 

"Ye  Shall  Be  My  .  .  .  Daughters”  (Women’s 
Work) 

By  Love  Constrained  (Medical  Work) 

The  African  at  School 

From  Darkness  to  Light  (General  Survey  of  the 
Work) 

Thahu  by  H.  Virginia  Blakeslee 

AFRICA  INLAND  MISSION 
375  Carlton  Avenue 
Brooklyn  5,  New  York 

<**NT*0 
o.  S.  P- 


THE  HARRINGTON  PRESS 


S  the  missionary  drove  along  the  African  road 
with  three  African  preachers,  he  noticed  that 
many  people  were  walking  in  groups  by  the  road, 
some  coming  toward  the  car,  others  going  in  the 
opposite  direction. 

“What  does  all  this  mean?”  he  asked  himself. 
Has  something  happened  near  by,  or  is  there  a 
market,  or  what?” 

He  stopped  the  car  so  that  the  African  preach¬ 
ers  might  ask  the  people  by  the  road  from  whence 
they  had  come. 

“From  the  magic  pot,”  they  replied  when  they 
were  questioned. 

“And  where  is  that?” 

“Just  down  the  road,”  said  a  group  of  women. 

The  missionary  and  his  friends  started  down 


the  road  again.  Soon  they  came  to  a  little  set¬ 
tlement  of  African  stores.  Near  them  they  could 
see  a  large  group  of  people  down  in  the  brush  un¬ 
der  a  tree.  Drawing  nearer,  they  found  that  crowd 
of  people  full  of  excitement.  Some  were  giving 
orders,  others  were  watching  something,  and  still 
others  were  lined  up  waiting  for  something.  A 
bushy  tail  was  hanging  from  a  branch  of  the  tree 
around  which  the  people  were  gathered. 

As  the  newcomers  walked  still  nearer,  they  no¬ 
ticed  that  a  little  group  of  people  had  formed 
a  circle  at  the  foot  of  the  tree,  all  of  them 
grasping  a  small  stick,  one  point  of  which  was 
resting  in  a  skin  pouch  tied  to  the  tree.  Upon  in¬ 
quiry,  it  was  learned  that  this  skin  contained  the 
magic  medicine  from  the  magic  pot. 

A  young  witch  doctor  dressed  in  white  was  in 
the  very  center,  leading  this  smaller  group  in 
a  chant  —  and  there  on  the  ground  at  the  foot  of 
the  tree  was  the  magic  pot  of  Satan.  What  was 
it?  It  was  a  big  round  piece  of  bone  taken  from 
a  cow’s  neck,  and  in  it  was  the  ugly  magic  medi¬ 
cine  —  old  cow’s  blood  mixed  with  grain. 

“And  if  you  are  going  to  the  market,”  the  witch 
doctor  was  chanting. 

“And  if  we  are  going  to  the  market,”  the  people 
who  held  the  stick  chanted  in  unison  after  him. 

“Or  to  school,”  the  witch  doctor  continued. 

“Or  to  school.”  the  group  repeated  again. 

“Or  to  your  gardens.” 

“Or  to  our  gardens.” 

“And  you  are  poisoned.” 

“And  we  are  poisoned.” 

“You  will  not  die.” 

“We  will  not  die.” 

On  and  on  they  chanted  after  their  leader.  When 
they  had  finished,  all  of  them  opened  their  mouths 
while  the  witch  doctor  poked  the  stick  which  they 


had  been  holding  into  their  mouths  and  daubed 
their  tongues  with  the  magic  medicine.  They 
must  swallow  it  so  that  they  would  not  die  from 
being  poisoned  by  an  enemy.  Because  the  Akamba 
people  fear  being  poisoned,  they  come  to  the  witch 
doctor  for  this  magic  medicine  and  pay  him  money 
for  giving  it  to  them. 

Next  the  little  children  were  forced  to  take  hold 
of  the  stick,  and  when  some  of  them  would  not 
open  their  mouths  to  take  the  magic  medicine  of 
Satan,  their  mothers  would  force  their  mouths 
open,  to  the  tune  of  much  screaming. 

“This  magic  pot  also  keeps  us  from  dying  when 
we  take  the  white  man’s  medicine,”  said  one  old 
man. 

“This  is  terrible,”  said  the  missionary  to  his 
three  African  preacher  friends.  “Let’s  fix  up  the 
loud-speaking  system  and  tell  these  people  about 
the  blood  of  Jesus  which  can  give  them  everlasting 
life.” 

The  “machine-which-makes-your-voice-big,”  as 
the  Africans  call  it,  was  connected  and  the  first 
hymn  which  went  out  over  it  was  : 

There  is  a  stream  of  blood  now. 

Of  Jesus  the  Son  of  God; 

And  people  who  are  washed  there, 

Are  cleansed  from  all  sin. 

Suddenly  the  people  came  rushing  away  from 
the  tree  of  the  magic  pot  and  over  to  the  mission¬ 
ary’s  car  to  hear  the  big  voice.  After  the  hymn,  the 
African  preachers  with  much  courage  and  power 
told  their  people  of  the  blood  of  Jesus,  God’s 
Lamb,  which  saves  from  eternal  death.  They  told 
them  that  they  did  not  have  to  pay  money  for  this, 
as  they  paid  for  the  magic  medicine  of  the  witch 
doctor,  for  the  price  had  been  paid  by  Jesus  Christ. 
So  another  opportunity  was  seized  to  preach  the 
gospel  by  the  wayside  to  those  whose  hearts  had 
been  blinded  by  the  messenger  of  Satan. 


OTHER  A.I.M.  PUBLICATIONS , 

B®eks 

Trumpet  Notes  in  Congo  by  Austin  Paul  .  .$1.50 


Sheee-ja  by  Lucilda  A.  Newton .  .50 

IBi-MontIfoSy  Magazine 

inland  Africa . yearly  .75 

Free  Pamphlets 

“Co  .  .  .  Evangelize” 

‘I  Will  Build  My  Church” 


“Ye  Shall  Be  My  .  .  .  Daughters”  (Women’s 
Work) 

By  Love  Constrained  (Medical  Work) 

The  African  at  School 

From  Darkness  to  Light  (General  Survey  of  the 
Work) 

Thahu  by  H.  Virginia  Blakeslee 
The  Kipsigis  of  Kenya 

• 

AFRICA  INLAND  MISSION 
375  Carifois  Avenye 
Brooklyn  5,  New  York 


PAULO  was  the  most  picturesque  member  of 
our  Congo  Evangelistic  Team.  His  home  was 
over  by  the  shores  of  Lake  Kioga  somewhere  near 
Murcheson  Falls.  About  eight  years  before  his 
coming  to  the  Congo,  he  turned  totally  blind.  Then 
God  began  to  deal  with  him  and  say  to  him: 

“Paulo,  I  want  you  to  serve  Me.  I  want  you  to 
go  over  toward  the  sunset,  where  the  sun  dies  in 
the  west.  I  want  you  to  go  across  the  big  hills  to 
the  Alur  country  and  preach  for  Me." 

Now  Paulo  was  a  proud  fellow  and  he  argued 
with  the  Lord  for  a  long  time.  But  finally  he  came 
to  our  Congo  country— with  his  stick  and  a  small 
boy  to  lead  him  over  the  hundreds  of  miles  of 
rugged  road.  His  heart  now  burned  with  the  mes¬ 
sage  of  repentance  like  the  old  prophets.  After 
several  months  of  powerful  preaching  in  the  lake 
country,  he  was  invited  to  some  of  our  mission 
stations.  When  I  was  introduced  to  him,  he  groped 
his  way  toward  me  and  put  out  his  hand. 

“ Bwana  Paul,  I’m  glad  to  ‘see’  you,”  he  said. 
“Senene  mingi  nayo.  Many  greetings  to  you, 
Paulo,”  I  replied.  “We  are  ready  to  sit  down  to  a 
cup  of  tea.  Will  you  drink  with  us?” 

The  blind  man  was  not  flattered  by  the  invita¬ 
tion. 


“ Bwana  Paul,  where  is  the  house  of  God?”  he 
asked.  ‘  If  you  will  go  to  tire  house  of  God  and 
pray  with  me  first,  then  I’ll  come  up  and  drmk 
your  tea.” 

Each  of  us  talked  to  the  Lord  in  a  language  un¬ 
familiar  to  the  other,  but  we  were  equally  heard 
by  a  loving  heavenly  Father  who  fully  compre¬ 
hends.  After  prayer,  Paulo  had  his  tea  and  was 
ready  to  preach  to  the  schoolboys  through  an 
interpreter.  The  next  morning  when  1  saw  the 
blind  man,  his  face  was  aglow  with  a  heavenly 
light. 

“ Bwana  Paul,  a  big  affair  has  worked  me,”  he 
said. 

It  seemed  that  God  had  spoken  to  him  through 
a  vision  in  the  night.  He  said  the  Lord  had  ap¬ 
peared  to  him  and  quieted  all  his  fears  with 
these  words: 

“Paulo,  do  not  be  afraid.  Where  Bwana  Paul 
sits,  you  sit;  and  where  Bwana  Paul  goes,  you  go.” 

For  over  six  years,  Paulo  sat  where  we  sat  and 
went  where  we  went,  preaching  a  Saviour  who 
died  for  all  and  who  lives  in  His  people  today.  He 
had  a  deep  insight  into  the  human  heart,  and  he 
did  not  hesitate  to  expose  its  sinfulness  in  a  way 
that  seemed  uncanny  to  his  hearers. 

“He  has  never  seen,  how  does  he  know?”  the 
people  would  ask. 

Coupled  with  this  trait  was  a  phenomenal  mem¬ 
ory  for  Scripture.  Paulo  could  recite  accurately 
chapter  after  chapter  from  the  Word  of  God.  He 
would  refer  even  to  obscure  passages  in  tire  Old 
Testament.  The  first  time  I  heard  him  preach  on 
Isaiah  5:28,  I  was  sure  he  had  made  a  mistake. 

Grasping  his  long  slender  staff,  Paulo  came  cau¬ 
tiously  to  the  front  of  the  platform.  The  sightless 
eyes  gave  a  strange  impression  of  seeing  as  he 
“looked”  for  a  moment  over  the  crowd  of  men 
and  women  who  were  packed  into  the  station 
chapel.  Fear  was  written  on  many  faces,  the 
deep-rooted  African  fear  of  any  abnormality. 
Paulo  offered  a  brief  prayer.  Then  he  raised  his 
head,  threw  back  his  shoulders,  and  said  quietly: 

“Open  your  Bibles  and  read  for  me  in  Isaiah, 
the  fifth  chapter,  the  twenty-sixth  verse.” 

“Paulo,  are  you  sure  you  have  the  right  verse?” 
whispered  the  interpreter. 

“Read  Isaiah  five,  twenty-six,”  Paulo  repeated. 


Isaiah  five,  twenty-six  was  read:  “And  he  w*U 
lift  up  an  ensign  to  the  nations  from  far,  and  will 
hiss  unto  them  from  the  end  of  the  earth:  and 
behold,  they  shall  come  with  speed  swiftly.” 

“Uhu  .  .  .  uhu  .  .  .  uhu,’'  Paulo  punctuated  the 
reading  with  staccato  grunts.  He  was  ready  now 
to  preach. 

‘  What  does  that  verse  say?”  he  asked.  “What 
does  that  verse  say?  Eh?  It  says  that  God  is  going 
to  put  us  up  a  banner.  God  has  lifted  up  His  ban¬ 
ner.  The  next  part  of  the  verse  says  He  is  putting 
up  that  bendeii,  that  banner  of  His,  to  this  nation. 
It  means  this  nation  because  it  says  ‘to  the  nations 
from  far.’  Do  you  know  what  God’s  banner  is? 
Open  your  Bibles  again  to  John’s  Gospel,  the 
third  chapter,  the  fourteenth  and  fifteenth  verses. 
Do  you  see  the  banner  that  God  has  put  up?  Eh? 
All  right,  now,  read  it.” 

One  brother  who  had  a  Bangala  Testament 
eagerly  found  the  place.  He  struggled  out  of  his 
tight  sitting  quarters  and  read  so  that  all  could 
hear : 

“As  Moses  lifted  up  the  serpent  in  the  wilder¬ 
ness,  even  so  must  the  Son  of  man  be  lifted  up: 
That  whosoever  believeth  in  him  should  not  per¬ 
ish,  but  have  everlasting  life.” 

“Do  you  hear  that?  Eh?  Do  you  hear  that?” 
the  preacher  continued.  “God  has  put  His  bendeii 
up.  The  Son  of  man  is  lifted  up  even  as  Moses 
lifted  up  that  brass  serpent  in  the  wilderness.  God 
is  calling  to  all  the  nations  from  far.  He  is  calling 
to  the  heathen  in  this  country.  He  is  calling  to  the 
heathen  across  the  sea  to  believe  on  His  Son,  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  whom  He  lifted  up  that  all 
men  might  be  saved.  Now  look  at  the  rest  of  this 
verse.” 

We  looked  in  Isaiah  again.  I  for  one  had  not 
particularly  noticed  the  rest  of  that  verse.  I  had 
no  idea  what  the  “hiss”  might  mean  and  I  was 
intensely  interested  to  see  what  this  blind  black 
man,  without  the  use  of  commentaries  or  even  a 
concordance,  would  get  out  of  it. 

“You  know  what  that  means— that  God  will  hiss 
to  them.  It’s  just  like  this:  Whrrr-e-e-e-e-e !”  he 
gave  a  low  whistle.  It  was  the  call  by  which  the 
Congo  natives  gather  in  their  chickens. 

“You  people  have  had  chickens,  little  chickens,” 
Paulo  went  on.  “When  the  hawks  begin  to  fly 


overhead  at  the  beginning  of  the  dry  season,  you 
have  a  hard  time  to  keep  the  little  chickens  in. 
They  are  foolish;  they  are  going  to  get  devoured. 
You  go  to  the  doorway  of  your  huts  and  you  go: 
‘Whrrr-e-e-e-e-e !  whrrr-e-e-e-e-e !’  You  whistle 
softly  for  them,  and  the  little  chickens  run  in 
where  they  are  free  from  danger. 

“Listen,  that’s  exactly  what  God  is  doing  with 
sinner  men  all  over  the  world.  He  is  not  willing 
that  any  should  perish.  He  knows  the  destruction 
that  is  coming.  He  knows  the  damning  forces  of 
darkness  that  would  eat  our  souls.  God  has  lifted 
up  His  Son  on  the  cross  to  die.  He  wants  us  to 
come  under  that  banner.  God  is  whistling  softly 
calling  men  and  women  back  to  His  own  dear 
side  and  His  salvation. 

“Whrrr-e-e-e-e-e!”  There  was  not  another  sound 
in  the  room.  The  blind  man’s  soft  whistle  could  be 
heard  by  those  who  sat  on  the  very  back  seat. 

I  went  home  from  that  meeting  impressed  and, 
getting  out  my  Strong’s  Concordance,  looked  for 
the  word  “hiss  ’  in  Isaiah  5:26.  There,  sure  enough, 
was  its  original  meaning,  “to  whistle  softly.” 
Though  I  had  been  a  Christian  for  more  than 
thirty  years,  it  had  taken  a  blind  African  preacher 
to  bring  its  meaning  to  light  for  me. 


Read  More 
and  the  other  members 
of  the  Evangelistic  Team 
in  Trumpet 
Notes  in  Con¬ 
go,  by  Austin 
Paul.  The 
narrative 
abounds  in 
a  d  v  enture 
and  reflection 
of  the  Lord’s 
blessing 
which  at¬ 
tended  the 
travels  of  the 
team  of  Af¬ 
ricans  who 


About  Paul© 
blew  their  trumpets  and 
preached  the  gospel 
over  many 
miles  of  Con- 
goland.  Get 
the  book 
from  Chris¬ 
tian  book¬ 
stores  or  A. I. 
M.  headquar¬ 
ters.  Cloth. 
Illustrated. 
$1.50.  Copy¬ 
right  1949,  by 
the  Africa  In¬ 
land  Mission, 
Inc. 


AFRICA  INLAND  MISSION 
375  Carlton  Avenue  Brooklyn  5,  New  York 


Above:  Tbs  missionary  and  native  personnel  who 
staff  one  of  the  Mission's  hospitals  and  carry  an  its 
ministry  to  those  whs  are  sick  in  body  and  in  spirit 


$M4foaiKecl 

A  STUDY  of  three  of  our  Lord's  commands  to  all  believers  will  reveal  the  why  of 
medical  missions:  Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God.”  This  is  worship — em¬ 
bracing  our  whole  devotional  life  and  attitude  of  obedience  to  Him.  "Ye  shall  be 
witnesses  unto  me.  We  witness  to  the  gospel  entrusted  to  us  and  to  our  personal 
knowledge  and  experience  of  the  Saviour.  "Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbour.”  That  is 
SERVICE — the  outflow  and  evidence  of  Christian  love  to  our  fellows.  It  is  worth  stop¬ 
ping  to  consider  that  these  three  elements  are  so  basic  that  they  cannot  be  separated 
from  each  other  successfully  and  leave  truly  Christian  life  or  work.  Worship  without 
witness  and  service  becomes  aimless.  Witness  without  worship  and  service  becomes 
meaningless.  Service  without  witness  and  worship  becomes  fruitless. 

Christian  Service  Taking  Shape  in  Medical  Ministry 

Christian  service  takes  many  forms.  It  is  essentially  action  to  fill  a  need,  particu- 

Page  Three 


larly  a  need  not  otherwise  being  met.  It  is  hard  to  realize  that  there  are  parts  of  this 
world  where  ignorance,  superstition,  and  lack  of  elementary  hygiene  are  so  prevalent 
and  medical  care  so  scanty  or  absent  that  the  incidence  of  sickness  becomes  almost 
universal.  Central  Africa  is  such  a  region. 

The  colonial  governments  are  taking  an  increasing  interest  in  the  situation.  Their 
splendid  medical  services,  however,  are  occupied  so  far  largely  with  the  broader  ques¬ 
tions  of  public  health  and  hygiene.  Many  factors  keep  them  from  meeting  the 
individual  needs  of  the  masses  for  whom  they  are  now  nominally  responsible.  So  it 
comes  about  that  practically  every  mission  station,  whether  its  personnel  does  or 
does  not  include  a  nurse  or  a  doctor,  inevitably  engages  in  some  medical  work,  and 
without  the  practical  love  such  situations  demand,  one's  preaching  may  be  but  as 
"sounding  brass.” 

Thus  the  Africa  Inland  Mission  now  has  seven  hospitals — two  in  Kenya,  one  in 
Tanganyika,  three  in  Congo,  one  in  Uganda — and  many  dispensaries.  Native  helpers 
are  being  trained  and  under  supervision  proving  capable  of  carrying  responsibility. 
With  their  aid  it  is  quite  practical  to  conduct  dispensaries  on  every  station  and 
some  outstations  throughout  the  regions  served  by  the  main  medical  centers. 

The  mere  existence  of  these  hospitals  in  a  faith  mission,  as  well  as  their  main- 
Page  Four 


tenance,  is  a  glorious  testimony  to  our  Lord's  faithfulness.  In  most  places,  it  has  been 
found  wise  to  attach  a  nominal  fee  to  medical  service.  This  helps  materially  with 
local  expenses.  Most  doctors  are  unavoidably  called  upon  for  medical  services  by 
whites.  Gifts  from  them,  and  from  fellow-missionaries  and 
the  medical  workers'  own  allowances,  form  a  substantial 
part  of  the  support.  Gifts  from  those  in  America  and  Great 
Britain  beyond  these  sums  measure  the  extent  to  which  the 
work  is  carried  on.  It  is  a  constant  source  of  amazement  to 
those  who  are  associated  in  the  work  to  see  the  way  that, 
with  the  Lord's  blessing,  how  much  is  accomplished  with 
how  little. 


Victim  of 
a  beating1 


The  Place  of  Medical  Work  in  the 
Missionary  Program 


Service  rendered  to  diseased  bodies,  pro¬ 
perly  correlated  with  the  witness  and 
worship,  is  rich  in  spiritual  accomplish- 


Page  Five 


An  African  hespifel  assistant  as  helping 
the  misisonary  nurse  to  treat  a  baby 
brought  to  the  hospital  by  its  heathen 
mother.  Such  accidents  are  very  com¬ 
mon  in  Africa. 


ment.  In  the  field  of  evangelism  it  has  a  defi¬ 
nite  part,  for  those  who  come  with  physical 
needs  are  faced  with  greater  spiritual  needs.  At 
the  medical  centers  they  come  under  the  sound  of 
the  gospel  whether  they  will  or  not,  for  the  mes¬ 
sage  goes  with  the  medicine,  and  many  hear 
who  might  disappear  in  the  bush  if  a  mission¬ 
ary  visited  their  village.  Others,  drawn  by  re¬ 
ports  of  marvelous  recoveries,  come  from  places 
yet  untouched  by  mission  influence.  Frequently 
these  are  saved  and  then  bear  the  tidings  of 
salvation  back  to  their  villages.  Thus  many  are 
reached  who  otherwise  would  not  know  of 
Christ.  And  there  are  those  whose  hearts,  pre¬ 
viously  hardened  to  the  gospel,  are  softened  by 
kindness  and  the  efficacy  of  prayerfully  ad¬ 
ministered  medicine  accompanied  by  the  wit¬ 
ness  to  the  saving  power  of  Christ. 


Page  Six 


The  medical  centers  have  a  specific  ministry  to  believers  in  protection  against 
backsliding.  This  phase  of  the  work  scarcely  can  be  overemphasized.  The  African 
Christian  is  actively  conscious  of  the  moral  issues  involved  in  a  returning  to  witch¬ 
craft.  But  apart  from  the  help  he  gets  from  the  government  services  or  through 
missionary  channels,  there  is  no  human  recourse  open  to  him  in  times  of  illness  ex¬ 
cept  witchcraft.  Much  has  been  said  of  the  cruel  and  bizarre  elements  of  witchcraft 
and  not  enough  of  the  confidence  in  which  it  is  held  by  native  peoples.  This  confi¬ 
dence  is  very  real,  so  the  desire  for  help  and  the  pressure  of  heathen  relatives  in  the 
presence  of  sickness  and  the  absence  of  reasonable  medical  care  constitute  strong 
temptation  to  African  Christians.  It  is  extremely  difficult  for  those  who  have  lived 
all  their  lives  in  civilized  lands  and  have  had  access  to  the  many  clinics  and  hospitals 
that  are  staffed  with  well-trained  doctors  and  nurses  to  realize  just  how  strong  this 
temptation  can  be. 

Medical  work  often  becomes  an  instrument  in  improving  relations  with  colonial 
governments,  a  quite  secondary  but  nonetheless  definite  means  of  forwarding  the 
gospel.  And  the  advantage  of  making  medical  attention  accessible  to  missionaries  on 
the  field  must  not  be  overlooked  in  its  bearing  upon  their  spiritual  ministry  by 
keeping  their  bodies  in  working  order. 


Page  Seven 


View  of  a  Main  Medical  Center 


By  the  way  of  illustration,  let  us  look 
at  one  medical  center,  with  its  set  of 
circumstances  and  its  work  of  witness 
and  service.  Daily  attendance  at  the  dis¬ 
pensary  averages  four  hundred  and  fifty 
people.  Other  phases  of  the  work  include 
fifty  hospital  beds,  a  village  for  ambu¬ 
lant  patients,  a  leper  camp,  a  camp  for  the  tubercular,  and  a  house  for  orphans. 
Residents  are  constantly  about  a  thousand  people,  including  the  inevitable  relatives 
of  the  actual  patients. 

The  group  is  changing  all  the  time  and  comes  only  in  small  part  from  near-by 
villages.  Most  cannot  return  to  their  villages  before  treatment  is  completed.  So  the 
witness  is  not  limited  to  passing  contacts.  It  may  continue  for  weeks  or  months, 
or  in  the  case  of  lepers  and  some  tubercular  patients,  a  year  or  longer.  There  are 
baptized  Christians  in  church  fellowship,  and  there  are  backsliders.  There  are 
catechumens  and  others  whose  interest  has  been  awakened.  There  are  adherents  to 


O  <G>  — > 


“To  open  iheif  “To  turn  (hem 

eyci”— aware  of.  from  darkness  to 

need,  apparently  light'’— has  u n- 

interested  in  the  desstood  the  sim- 

j:  os  pel  message.  pis  gospel  yuth. 


I 

— r 

GOO 


“From  the  power 
of  Satan  unto 
Cod.”  A  broken 
chain-public  pro¬ 
fession  ol  faith. 


Page  Eight 


faiths  that  are  prejudiced  against  any 
gospel  message  —  and  finally  the  great 
mass  of  Africans  called  animists,  with 
some  idea  of  a  Creator  but  spending 
their  time  trying  to  appease  evil  spirits, 
which  they  accept  as  the  cause  of  all 
sickness  and  misfortune. 

Neither  the  witness  nor  the  service 
will  retain  their  spiritual  value  one  day 
longer  than  they  are  closely  combined  with  the  first  and  essential  love,  that  to¬ 
ward  God,  our  worship.  The  church  has  found  occasion  to  mourn  over  the  fine 
buildings  and  beautifully  equipped  hospitals  founded  and  maintained  by  her  but 
useless  for  His  kingdom.  Nothing  of  such  material  nature  can  be  of  value  apart 
from  His  presence  in  the  hearts  and  lives  of  those  who  man  the  work. 

With  very  elementary  educational  facilities  and  limited  material  from  which  to 
develop  such  a  staff  for  this  place,  to  confine  it  to  those  who,  as  far  as  human 
eye  could  see,  gave  evidence  of  a  new  birth  and  vital  interest  in  the  souls  and 
welfare  of  others  has  been  very  difficult.  But  it  has  been  done,  and  the  fact  that 

Page  Nine 


A  giant  tusn©r 

Page  Ten 


the  staff  includes,  in  addition  to  three  missionaries  ( a  doctor 
and  his  wife  and  a  registered  nurse),  twenty-five  to  thirty 
native  assistants  and  a  full-time  African  evangelist,  is  an 
evidence  of  answer  to  prayer.  So  the  place  is  kept  a  Christian 
hospital,  and  there  is  no  hesitancy  in  trying  earnestly  to 
bring  every  man,  woman,  and  child  into  direct  contact  with 
the  Lord  for  acceptance  or  tragic  rejection. 

How  the  Witness  is  Carried  through  the  Service 

The  witness  takes  the  form  of  services,  personal  testimony, 
Christian  living,  and  literature.  At  the  center  described 
there  is  a  service  in  both  men's  and  women’s  wards  at  the  be¬ 
ginning  of  the  day,  a  well-attended  service  just  before  the 
dispensary  hours  each  morning,  a  general  hospital  service  each 
evening,  a  special  women's  service  once  a  week,  services  at 
outlying  villages  where  the  weekly  baby  clinics  are  conducted, 
and  meetings  in  the  leper  camp. 


Those  who  come  for  medical  care,  if  they  are  not  bedfast, 
occupy  two  rows  of  simple  houses  each  holding  several  pa¬ 
tients  along  with  their  relatives.  The  responsibility  for  the 
spiritual  welfare  of  all  these  people  is  shared  by  the  entire 
staff,  each  individual  member  making  himself  or  herself  re¬ 
sponsible  for  the  occupants  of  certain  houses  or  of  certain 
beds.  Each  worker  reports  his  experiences  and  results  at  least 
once  a  week  to  the  entire  group. 

To  co-ordinate  the  work  of  personal  witness,  a  record  is 
kept  of  each  person.  There  are  cards  for  this  purpose  on  the 
door  of  each  house  where  the  ambulant  patients  stay  and  on 
the  foot  of  each  bed  in  the  hospital.  On  the  cards  is  used  a 
series  of  symbols  that  are  very  easily  drawn.  They  are  based 
mainly  on  Acts  26:18.  For  instance,  a  closed  circle  indi¬ 
cates  one  who  is  not  aware  of  his  spiritual  need.  An  eye, 
drawn  merely  by  placing  a  circle  in  an  eye-shaped  oval,  gives 
the  information  that  the  person  has  shown  some  interest  in 
the  gospel  message  which  he  has  heard.  Other  symbols  indi- 


A  case  ©f  Eeprosy 

Page  Eleven 


cate  a  seeming  understanding  of  the  truth,  a  confession  of  faith,  one  who  is  enrolled 
in  a  catechumen  class,  a  baptized  church  member,  or  one  who  is  out  of  church 
fellowship. 

After  a  first  interview,  the  witness  places  the  appropriate  symbol  on  the  card. 
Then,  by  a  glance  at  it,  anyone  else  visiting  the  same  house  or  patient  has  an  idea 
of  the  spiritual  condition  of  the  people  or  person  he  is  about  to  visit.  In  making 
rounds  in  the  wards,  one  can  tell  something  about  what  witness  already  has  been 
given  effectually  to  each  one  of  the  patients.  Not  only  have  these  symbols  given 
definiteness  to  the  witness  of  the  many  to  many,  but  the  Holy  Spirit  quite  appar¬ 
ently  has  used  them  in  suggesting  a  following  word  of  witness  from  day  to  day. 

A  Few  Incidents  of  Results  Gathered  from  the  Field  at  Large 

A  man  wounded  in  the  eye  by  a  leopard  came  to  one  of  the  Mission's  hospitals. 
He  was  led  to  the  Lord  while  he  was  there  and  later,  after  he  had  recovered,  he 
walked  in  from  his  village  —  ten  miles  away  —  every  Sunday  to  church.  When  he 
ceased  to  come,  inquiry  revealed  that  he  had  moved  to  another  place  near  an  out- 
chapel  and  that  he  was  attending  services  there.  A  year  or  two  later  he  reappeared 
at  the  station,  an  applicant  for  baptism  recommended  by  his  local  elders. 

Page  Twelve 


In  another  hospital  an 
old  man  lay  at  the  brink 
of  death.  As  a  boy  he 
had  helped  the  early  A. 

I.  M.  missionaries  to 
clear  a  site  for  their 
house,  but,  turning  a 
deaf  ear  to  their  mes¬ 
sage,  he  had  used  his 
earnings  to  multiply 
wives,  cruelly  persecut¬ 
ing  one  wife  and  daugh¬ 
ter  who  became  Chris¬ 
tians.  Now,  taken  ill 
on  a  journey,  he  re¬ 
fused  to  have  the  witch-doctor  and  insisted  on  being  carried  to  the  Mission  hos¬ 
pital.  He  was  dealt  with  again.  The  day  before  he  died  he  startled  the  Sunday 
morning  congregation  on  that  station  by  appearing  in  the  service,  borne  by  four 

Page  Thirteen 


Houses  occupied  by  ambulant  patients  and  their  relatives 


men,  to  confess  Christ  in  public.  His  last  words  were  an  admonition  to  the  members 
of  his  village  to  "walk  with  the  Son  of  God  in  the  path  of  God.” 

The  first  outstation  in  one  new  tribe  was  opened  at  the  request  of  fourteen  post¬ 
operative  patients.  In  yet  another  section,  long  antagonistic  to  the  gospel,  an 
outchapel  was  opened  largely  through  the  influence  of  the  medical  work. 

What  of  the  Future  in  Medical  Work? 

The  hospitals  and  dispensaries  have  grown  from  such  beginnings  as  a  box  in  the 
.■shade  of  a  tamarind  tree,  a  mud  and  wattle  building,  or  a  flea-infested  shelter 
■equipped  —  after  the  pests  were  exorcised  by  wet  manure  —  with  beds  of  rough 
joles,  willowy  sticks  for  springs,  and  ferns  for  mattresses.  Now  some  of  the  hospi¬ 
tals  have  limited  X-ray  and  laboratory  facilities,  but  none  is  served  by  more  than  a 
single  doctor  and  one  or  two  trained  nurses,  although  two-doctor  hospitals  are  the 
ideal  toward  which  the  Mission  is  working.  Where  are  those  who,  out  of  worship- 
filled  hearts,  can  answer  God’s  call  to  witness  and  serve  in  such  a  work?  Changing 
•conditions  demand  that  services  be  of  a  steadily  higher  grade,  and  indeed  only  our 
best  is  worthy  to  accompany  the  message  of  our  Lord's  love  and  redemption. 

Page  Fourteen 


OTHER  PAMPHLETS  IN  THIS  SERIES 


“Go  .  .  .  Evangelize” 

‘I  Will  Build  My  Church” 

"Ye  Shall  Be  My  .  .  .  Daughters” 

The  African  School 

Free  copies  of  these  leaflets  may  he  obtained  by  writing  to 
Africa  Inland  Mission  Headquarters 


— 'Qj^rica  ^3nfancl  FVjiiiion 

375  Carlton  Avenue 


Brooklyn  5,  N.  Y. 


O.S.K- 
1  95  i 


tssMe  woman  giving  the  g©spe3  to  a  group  of  heathen  vaJSagers 


S&aU  Se  THy .  < .  'Dauy&ten& 

BACK  in  the  beginning  of  things,  when  God  said  that  it  was  not  good  for  man  to 
be  alone,  He  created  woman  to  be  his  helpmeet.  Nor  is  man  able  to  progress 
alone  in  the  fullness  of  life,  for  so  bound  together  in  human  society  are  men  and 
women  that  tribes  and  nations  rise  no  higher  than  the  level  of  their  womanhood.  In 
Africa,  as  in  other  pagan  lands  where  salvation  has  been  preached  through  the  blood 
of  Jesus  Christ,  the  response  of  women  has  lagged  far  behind  that  of  the  men.  Yet 
to  those  who  forsake  their  idols  for  Himself  God  has  promised  to  be  a  Father  to 
"daughters”  as  well  as  to  "sons.” 

Womanhood  in  Africa 

What  are  they  like,  these  African  women  who  may  become  King’s  daughters? 
Like  their  brothers,  they  are  surrounded  by  superstition  from  the  day  of  their  birth. 
But  unlike  their  brothers,  they  learn  very  early  the  drudgery  which  is  to  be  their  lot 

Page  Three 


through  life.  Many  a  tiny  girl  carries  around  on  her  back  a  heavy  lump  of  a  baby _ 

for  there  are  no  carriages  or  cribs  in  the  African  hut,  nor  day  nurseries  in  the  African 
community,  and  her  mother's  back  may  be  needed  for  the  younger  baby.  Other  tasks 
are  added,  and  the  larger  the  little  girl  grows  the  bigger  become  the  waterpots  which 
she  carries  on  her  head  from  the  lake  or  the  river  or  the  water  hole,  the  heavier  the 
loads  of  firewood  which  she  gathers  and  brings  from  the  woods,  the  oftener  she  is 
made  to  grind  the  grain  into  flour  to  feed  the  hungry  menfolk,  and  the  larger  the  hoe 
which  she  carries  to  the  fields.  It  is  a  disgrace  for  a  man  to  stoop  to  women's  work 
which  includes  the  carrying  of  wood  and  water  as  well  as  cooking,  and  little  girls  are 
trained  early  for  the  traditional  tasks  of  womanhood.  In  some  tribes  there  is  no  help 
from  the  men  in  raising  the  food  for  the  family.  But  when  it  comes  to  eating  that 
food,  the  men  and  boys  must  be  served  first,  and  then  women  and  girls  may  have 
what  is  left — to  eat  in  their  separate  place.  Cattle  herding  is  done  by  girls  as  well  as 
men  and  boys.  Sometimes  little  girls  are  sent  to  herd  with  the  boys,  often  with  very 
evil  results. 

In  many  tribes,  entrance  into  womanhood  is  attended  by  rites  that  are  both  physi¬ 
cally  harmful  and  morally  degrading.  A  girl’s  first  owner  is  her  father.  By  him  she  is 
sold  to  a  husband  for  so  many  head  of  cattle  or  other  native  wealth.  If  she  is  very 
Page  Four 


young  when  the  cattle  transaction  occurs,  she  may  be  turned  over  to  her  future 
mother-in-law  for  training  before  marriage,  which  takes  place  while  she  is  little  more 
than  a  child.  Probably  her  husband  has  other  wives.  She  becomes  the  servant  of  them 
all.  She  is  no  companion  to  her  husband — she  does  not  even  eat  with  him.  Her  calling 
in  life  is  to  work  for  him  and  to  bear  him  children — boys  to  increase  his  prestige, 
girls  to  increase  his  wealth  when  they  are  ready  for  marriage.  When  she  becomes  too 
old  to  perform  either  of  these  duties,  she 
is  a  burden  to  the  family.  It  is  then  that 
she  may  be  accused  of  witchcraft  as  an 
excuse  for  turning  her  out  into  the  world 
to  fend  for  herself.  Many  are  the  old 
women  in  Africa  in  this  pitiful  plight, 
feeble,  feared,  and  friendless.  Civilization 
has  bettered  the  African  woman’s  circum¬ 
stances  in  some  places,  and  governments 
have  afforded  some  protection  against  ill- 
treatment  of  her.  But  civilization  has  done 
something  else  for  women  as  well.  It  has 


Page  Five 


A  woman  with  triplets 
that  were  born  at 
a  mission  hospital. 


made  them  into  women  of  the  streets  and  mis¬ 
tresses  to  unprincipled  white  men  in  the  "civil¬ 
ized”  towns. 

The  Gospel's  Power 

Can  the  gospel  reach  women  who  are  so  over¬ 
burdened  and  crushed  in  mind  and  in  heart? 
Praise  God,  it  can.  It  is  the  "power  of  God  unto 
salvation."  In  the  very  early  days  women  con¬ 
verts  were  few.  But  their  number  has  increased. 
Work  and  the  fact  that  they  are  not  their  own 
masters,  consequent  difficulty  in  attending  serv¬ 
ices,  polygamy,  inability  to  read  the  Word — all 
are  hindrances  to  growth  in  grace  if  they  do  be¬ 
lieve  and  deprive  them  of  spiritual  food  and  fel¬ 
lowship.  In  spite  of  this,  once  they  have  tasted 
of  heavenly  things,  many  of  them  display  an 


Page  Six 


amazing  devotion  to  their  Lord  and  a  willingness  to  endure  persecution  for  His 
name’s  sake.  With  this  introduction,  one  may  well  marvel  at  the  account  of  the  gos¬ 
pel’s  transformation  as  wrought  in  the  hearts  and  lives  of  African  women.  Against 
the  dark  background  of  the  heathen  world  that  surrounds  them,  these  African  Chris¬ 
tian  women  shine  with  singular  beauty. 

Some  of  the  "Daughters"  in  Service 

Today  you  might  step  into  some  native  hut  where  sorrow  has  come.  There  in 
the  shadows,  Testament  in  hand,  you  might  see  an  African  Bible  woman  sitting  close 
to  a  grieving  mother,  reading  words  of  comfort  to  her  from  the  Book  or  bending  in 
prayer  beside  her.  Or  you  might  walk  into  one  of  the  mission  hospitals  or  dispensaries 
and  see  black-skinned,  kinky-haired  girls  in  spotless  uniforms  ministering  to  the  sick. 
Or  you  might  visit  one  of  the  schools  for  training  native  evangelists  and  even  there 
find  occasionally  a  woman  taking  the  Bible  study  side  by  side  with  the  men.  Not 
many  have  done  this,  but  some  have  done  so  and  made  good. 

If  you  choose  to  follow  the  winding  path  to  some  outstation,  you  might  find  a 
women’s  conference  in  progress.  One  or  two  lady  missionaries  might  be  present,  and 

Page  Seven 


a  few  native  men  might  be 
peeking  in  to  see  how  these 
women  of  theirs  will  carry 
on.  But  the  leader  of  the 
meeting  would  be  an  ebony 
matron,  her  face  framed 
with  a  gay  handkerchief 
and  a  length  of  bright  cloth 
wrapped  around  her,  fas¬ 
tened  under  the  armpits, 
with  or  without  a  dress  underneath.  Perhaps  she  has  needed  much  missionary  coach¬ 
ing  for  this  her  first  appearance  as  a  public  leader,  or  perhaps  she  is  a  woman  well 
versed  in  the  Scriptures  and  taught  of  the  Spirit  till  she  speaks  with  much  ease  and 
liberty.  At  any  rate,  her  sisters  in  the  faith — some  of  them  between  spells  of  dis¬ 
traction  caused  by  restless  infants  on  their  backs — are  drinking  in  her  words  or  re¬ 
sponding  to  her  invitation  to  share  their  problems  for  united  prayer  and  their  joys 
for  united  praise. 

Since  1934,  when  the  first  women's  conference  was  held  in  Kenya,  the  movement 
Page  Eight 


Starting  for  a  women's  conference  at  an  outstation 


has  spread  to  all  the  fields.  Very,  very  slowly,  yet  surely,  women  are  coming  into  their 
proper  place  in  the  life  of  the  African  church.  And  some  of  them  are  not  far  behind 
the  men  in  their  intelligent  understanding  of  the  Word. 

Special  Activities  for 
the  Women 

In  between  the  level  of  the 
degraded  heathen  woman 
and  the  level  of  these  out¬ 
standing  examples  of  what 
Christian  womanhood  can, 
and  in  some  instances  al¬ 
ready  has,  become  is  a  great 
number  of  wives  and  girls 
and  mothers  in  various 
stages  of  spiritual  and 
mental  development.  Their 


A  testimony  meeting  in  progress  at  the  conference 

Page  Nine 


hearts  have  been  drawn  by  the  story  of  the  Saviour's  love  for  them.  They  have  opened 
their  hearts  to  Him.  How  are  they  getting  along  in  the  Christian  life,  and  what  means 
of  grace  are  available  to  them?  Of  course,  there  is  fellowship  with  other  believers  in 

the  services  of  the  church, 
but  if  they  are  to  find  spir¬ 
itual  food  for  themselves 
in  the  Word  of  God,  they 
must  learn  to  read.  This  is 
not  an  easy  task  for  those 
who  have  passed  beyond 
their  girlhood.  So  it  is  that 
many  of  the  mission  sta¬ 
tions  have  reading  classes 
especially  for  grown  wo¬ 
men  who,  with  their  fussy 
babies  and  their  slow  men¬ 
tal  processes,  are  misfits  in 

Pupils  in  uniform  of  one  or  the  mare  oovonceo  girls’  ssnoois  the  general  Schools.  Little 


Page  Ten 


attempt  is  made  to  take  these  women  on  in  the  other  studies  which  it  is  possible  for 
boys  and  younger  girls  to  grasp. 

Women’s  conferences  have  been  mentioned,  but  the  intervals  between  them  are 
long.  The  need  is  met  in  various  ways  such  as  an  after-meeting  on  Sunday  for  women, 
special  prayer  meetings,  weekly  Bible  classes,  separate  catechumen  classes.  The  re¬ 
sponse  is  not  often  large,  but  always  there  are  the  faithful  few  who  attend.  Such 
activities  still  are  confined  largely  to  the  main  stations.  A  great  opportunity  calls 
for  similar  missionary  ministry  in  the  outdistricts. 

Training  Young  Girls 

The  great  hope  for  African  women  in  the  future  lies  in  the  Christian  girl  of  to¬ 
day.  Girls’  homes  had  their  beginnings  in  the  early  days  when  most  of  the  converts 
were  men  and  when  such  things  as  Christian  homes  were  unknown.  Young  men  who 
had  taken  a  stand  for  Christ  were  in  a  predicament  when  the  time  came  to  select  a 
wife.  Some  would  choose  a  promising  girl  and  bring  her  to  the  missionary  for  Chris¬ 
tian  instruction  before  marrying  her.  Then  there  were  some  girls,  too,  who  became 
believers  and  for  doing  so  endured  unspeakable  persecution  in  their  own  homes  or 

Page  Eleven 


were  forced  into  immoral  initiation  rites  and  heathen  polygamous  marriages.  Forty 
and  fifty  years  ago  the  cost  of  a  Christian  testimony  in  central  Africa  was  high. 
Some  of  these  girls  fled  for  refuge  to  the  mission  stations.  And  who  could  deny  them 
shelter  and  protection  there? 

Now  missionaries  are  set  aside  to  give  their  full  time  to  work  among  girls,  and 
many  of  the  stations  have  girls’  boarding  homes.  The  character  of  these  homes  varies 
according  to  the  locality  and  its  need.  There  is  a  unique  home  in  one  place  for  fallen 
girls,  undertaken  at  government  request  because  in  the  tribe  where  this  home  is 
maintained  illegitimate  babies  would  be  put  to  death  at  birth.  Such  a  work  presents 
unusual  problems,  yet  some  lives  are  salvaged  and  some  of  these  unfortunate  girls 
are  led  to  the  lord. 

There  are  sections  where  the  missionaries  say  that  a  Christian  girl  seldom  is 
known  in  the  native  villages.  Girls  who  hear  something  of  the  "words  of  God”  come 
to  the  mission  station  seeking  to  be  taught  more.  They  are  taken  into  the  homes  and 
many  professions  are  reported  among  them.  In  other  parts  of  the  field,  the  girls' 
homes  take  the  form  of  training  centers  for  Christian  girls.  The  academic  teaching 
is  more  advanced  and  the  opportunities  for  practical  Christian  work  are 
greater  than  is  the  case  in  homes  of  the  former  type.  In  the  latter,  the  girls  or  their 
Page  Twelve 


parents,  who  often  are  Christians,  too,  are  re¬ 
quired  to  pay  entrance  fees  and  sometimes  board 
as  well.  Gardens  cultivated  by  the  girls  solve  the 
board  problem  in  most  of  the  homes. 

It  is  from  the  more  advanced  institutions  that 
native  evangelists  frequently  choose  their  wives, 
for  the  girls  have  received  training  that  will  have 
a  definite  place  in  the  work  to  which  their  hus¬ 
bands  are  called,  to  say  nothing  of  the  higher 
standards  they  will  help  to  maintain  in  their 
homes.  However,  it  has  been  a  general  principle 
not  to  accustom  the  girls  while  in  training  to 
comforts  which  they  cannot  obtain  for  them¬ 
selves  or  which  would  make  them  dissatisfied 
with  life  in  the  villages  again.  In  some  homes  the 
accommodations  still  are  very  primitive.  A  rela¬ 
tively  small  number  of  girls  have  been  trained  as 
teachers,  but  some  of  them  have  done  very  well 


Page  Thirteen 


as  instructors  of  children  and  other  girls.  The  usual  custom  is  for  the  girls  to  spend 
their  vacation  periods  with  their  own  families  unless  this  would  engender  trouble. 

The  Christian  Girl  at  Home 

Left  in  her  home,  provided  she  is  not  hindered  by  her  family,  the  Christian  girl 
still  has  opportunity  for  training  if  she  lives  near  a  mission  station,  for  she  can  attend 
the  day  school,  which  may  be  co-educational  or  may  have  a  separate  section  tor  gnl  . 
These  girls  do  not  receive  as  much  practical  training  as  those  m  homes,  although  the 
boarding  girls  may  take  their  academic  work  in  the  regular  station  school  Bush 
schools  seldom  number  many  girls  among  their  pupils.  Then  there  is  the  Christian 
girl  who,  after  several  years  in  a  mission  home  or  school,  finds  herself  mi  home  s 
her  own  out  in  the  bush.  That  is  the  place  where  you  are  most  likely  to  find  childrens 
and  women's  work  being  carried  on  in  the  bush,  because  a  Christian  woman  has  a 
vision  of  reaching  wives  and  children  with  the  gospel  and  teaching  them  what  she 
knows  from  the  Word  of  God.  This  picture  of  the  women  and  girls  can  be  duplicated 
wherever  the  gospel  has  gone,  yet  what  a  vast  unreached  field  still  stretches  before 
the  reaper  who  would  gather  Africa  s  womanhood  to  Cnrist! 

Page  Fourteen 


OTHER  PAMPHLETS  IN  THESE  SERIES 


"Go  .  .  .  Evangelize” 

By  Love  Constrained  (Medical  Work) 

The  African  at  School 
"I  Will  Build  My  Church” 

Free  copies  of  these  leaflets  may  be  obtained  by  writing 
Africa  Inland  Mission  Headquarters 


AFRICA  INLAND  MISSION 
373-375  Carlton  Avenue 
Brooklyn  5,  New  York 


105© 


By  Florence  E.  Tilley 


I  T  was  Tuesday  morning.  At  eleven  eighty-seven 
*■  bright-faced  boys  and  two  girls  would  gather 
for  Bible  club  in  the  assembly  room  of  the  town 
school  in  Mwanza  Township.  Some  of  the  morning 
must  be  given  to  preparing  the  lesson.  But  here 
was  a  group  of  men  waiting  to  buy  books,  yonder 
a  man  needing  instruction  about  building  the  boys’ 
kitchen.  The  houseboy  wanted  soap  for  the  laun¬ 
dry.  The  garden  boy  told  me  all  the  hoes  were 
stolen  in  the  night.  What  should  he  do  about  a  hoe 
to  clean  the  compound  path?  In  the  office  sat  the 
fourteen-year-old  lad  to  whom  God  has  entrusted 
a  wonderful  gift  of  art.  The  floors  might  need 
sweeping,  but  he  was  oblivious  to  everything  but 
the  picture  he  was  drawing. 

Finally  I  reached  the  office  and  settled  down  to 
the  lesson.  What  a  lovely  lesson !  It  was  the  story 
of  Jesus  cleansing  the  temple.  Here  was  a  sugges¬ 
tion  that  we  make  a  heart  from  a  pasteboard  box, 
line  it  with  shining  paper,  and  cut  a  heart  door  in 
it.  We  should  have  some  shillings,  a  figure  repre¬ 
senting  pleasure,  and  so  on,  and  a  candle  for  the 
Lord  Jesus,  the  Light  of  the  world. 

After  a  time  of  prayer  for  the  Lord’s  quicken¬ 
ing  power,  the  lesson  was  studied,  the  material 
prepared,  then  I  stepped  to  the  outer  office  where 
Musa  was  working.  Dear  me,  he  had  found  a  tin 
of  ordinary  wood  paint  and  painted  three  yard 


pieces  of  flannel  in  a  very  short  time.  He  had  made 
pretty  scenes  oi  green  grass  and  blue  sky,  but  they 
were  so  stiff  they  could  not  be  used  for  a 
background. 

“On,  oh,  oh,  Musa,  what  have  you  done?  just 
look  at  this !  You  have  ruined  three  pieces  of 
flannel  and  used  up  all  the  paint  which  I  bought 
for  a  very  special  purpose— and  you  have  wasted 
all  this  time.  Musa,  wiien  will  you  learn  to  come 
and  asK  me  if  I  think  your  idea  will  work  before 
you  waste  material  like  this?  I  tell  you  again  and 
again  and  again  to  be  careful  about  the  waste  of 
material  that  costs  so  much  money.” 

Now  it  was  ten  forty-five.  There  was  just  time 
to  pump  up  the  tires  of  the  power  bike,  tie  on  my 
books,  and  get  to  the  town  school  by  eleven.  As  1 
pumped,  the  Holy  Spirit  spoke  to  my  heart: 

“How  do  you  think  you  can  teach  that  lovely 
lesson  about  Jesus  cleansing  the  temple  when  you 
allow  your  own  temple,  your  heart,  to  be  full  of 
impatience  and  anger  toward  Musa  for  making 
that  mistake?” 

"But,  Lord  Jesus,”  I  argued,  “he  must  learn.  1 
cannot  let  him  go  on  wasting  material  without 
correcting  him.  Besides,  if  I  should  go  back  and 
ask  his  forgiveness,  would  not  that  encourage  him 
to  be  careless?” 

Then  came  the  answer,  “But  how  are  you  going 
to  teach  the  lesson  to  the  children  about  a  clean 
heart  when  your  own  heart  is  not  clean?” 

“But,  Lord,  there  isn't  time  now.  I’ll  do  it  when 
I  come  back.” 

“But  how  can  you  tell  the  children  to  allow 
jesus  to  cleanse  their  hearts  now  if  you  are  going 
to  wait  to  have  your  heart  cleansed?” 

“Yes,  Lord,  I  will  go  to  Musa  now  and  tell  him 
I  am  sorry  for  being  impatient  with  him.  And, 
Lord  Jesus,  forgive  me  for  grieving  Thee  and 
cleanse  my  heart  from  this  sin  of  impatience.” 

Five  minutes,  it  took  to  walk  back  into  the  office 
and  ask  Musa’s  forgiveness.  Musa  dropped  his 
head  and  assured  me  that  I  was  forgiven. 

Strange,  it  seemed  that  this  bike  was  making 
better  time  than  it  had  in  a  long  time,  and  tire 
pigi-pigi-pigi  sound  of  the  engine  seemed  to  beat 
out  the  time  to  the  lovely  song,  “In  my  heart  there 
rings  a  melody.”  So,  floating  over  the  air  With  a 
heart  as  light  as  a  feather  and  as  happy  as  a  bird, 


I  arrived  at  the  school  just  in  time  for  die  Bible 
club. 

The  boys  were  scampering  over  each  odier, 
some  standing  on  the  desks  storing  their  books  on 
top  of  the  partitional  wall  and  others  trying  to 
get  a  place  near  the  wall  where  they  could  rest 
their  backs.  What  chorus  would  they  like  to  sing? 
How  about  “Come  into  My  Heart,  Lord  Jesus'? 
All  agreed,  so  we  sang: 

Moyo  gwane ,  moyo  gwanc, 

Nzu  mu  moyo  gwane,  Seba. 

Nzugu  lelo,  wikale  mo, 

Nzu  mu  moyo  gwane,  Seba. 

The  son  of  Meriki  read  the  Scripture  and  die 
lesson  was  begun.  Have  any  of  you  had  the  privi¬ 
lege  of  keeping  eighty-nine  children  under  twelve 
years  of  age  interested  in  a  lesson  for  forty 
minutes?  Have  you,  too,  found  how  wonderfully 
the  Lord  jesus  can  keep  all  the  little  hearts  and 
minds  at  attention  when  He  is  in  control? 

Scarcely  had  the  lesson  been  narrated,  and 
die  object  lesson  had  not  yet  been  shown,  when, 
in  the  midst  of  a  sentence,  James  stood  up. 

“ Mayu ,”  said  he,  “I  have  a  lot  of  bad  dungs  in 
my  heart  just  like  those  the  people  had  brought 
into  God  s  temple.  But  I  want  my  heart  cleansed. 
What  shall  I  do?” 

“James,  if  you  really  want  your  heart  cleansed, 
there  is  only  one  way  in  all  this  world  to  get  it 
cleansed,  and  that  is  by  bringing  it  to  Jesus  who 
shed  His  blood  to  make  your  heart  clean.  If  you 
will  tell  Him  how  sorry  you  are  for  all  the  bad 
things  you  have  done,  then  ask  Him  to  forgive 
you  and  cleanse  you,  He  will  do  just  that.  Would 
you  like  to  tell  Him  now?” 

So  James  bowed  his  head  and  prayed:  “Lord 
Jesus,  I  am  sorry  I  wrote  that  sinful  letter  to  my 
friend.  I  am  sorry  I  took  Meshak’s  pencil,  and 
that  I  told  my  father  a  lie  this  morning.  Please 
forgive  me  and  cleanse  me.” 

No  sooner  did  James  sit  down  than  Kahemba 
raised  his  hand  and  said  he  would  like  to  have 
his  heart  cleansed.  Then  seven  other  dear  boys 
about  eight  to  ten  years  of  age  followed  one  after 
the  other.  The  bell  rang,  and  after  school  time  I 
showed  the  boys  the  heart  house  and  we  thanked 
Jesus  together  because  each  of  them  could  have 


bright  clean  hearts  because  Jesus  died  to  cleanse 
them. 

Months  have  passed,  but  every  Sunday  James 
is  in  his  place  at  Sunday  school,  his  face  shining 
for  Jesus.  James  will  complete  standard  six  next 
year  and  we  pray  that  he  will  hear  God’s  call  to 
enter  our  teacher  training  school  and  become  a 
soul- winner  among  his  people.  Pray  for  James, 
and  pray  that  missionaries’  hearts  may  be  kept 
cleansed  channels  for  the  blessing  of  the  Lord  to 
flow  through  to  boys  and  girls  who  need  Jesus. 


BO  YOU  KNOW  THE  A.  I.  M.  PUBLICATIONS ? 

Order  these  books: 

Trumpet  Notes  in  Congo  by  Austin  Paul  .  .  .$1.50 


Sheee-ja  by  Lucilda  A.  Newton . 50 

Subscribe  for  “SnSand  Africa” 

Issued  bi-monthly . per  yr.  .75 

Send  for  these  free  pamphlets: 

‘‘Go  .  .  .  Evangelize” 

“I  Will  Build  My  Church” 


‘‘Ye  Shall  Be  My  .  .  .  Daughters”  (Women’s  Work) 

The  African  At  School 

From  Darkness  to  Light  (General  Survey) 

Thahu  by  H.  Virginia  Biakeslee 
The  Kipsigis  of  Kenya 


AFRICA  INLAND  MISSION 
375  Carlton  Avenue  Brooklyn  5,  New  York 


