DOCUMENT_ID: sim-principles-practice
TITLE (as printed): The Principles and Practice of the Sudan Interior Mission
DATE: Revised 1958
LANGUAGE: en
SOURCE URL/SHELFMARK: https://archive.org/details/principlespracti00suda
EDITION: Sudan Interior Mission handbook, revised 1958. Internet Archive scan, identifier principlespracti00suda
TRANSCRIPTION METHOD: copied (Internet Archive OCR, djvu.txt full-text layer; engine/language unrecorded by IA)
TOTAL PAGES: unpaginated by this transcription; see inline page/section markers copied from the OCR where visible
WORD COUNT: 11230

t-'  b'A  £  y,j  yj  {f  fl  !>  f  ' 

/JS/ 


The  Principl  es 
and  Practice 


SUDAN  INTERIOR 


MISSION 


FOR  PRIVATE  USE  ONLY 


AUG  2 


“To  preach  the  Gospel,  not  where 
Christ  was  already  named.” 

—Romans  15:20 


REVISED,  1958 


NOTE 


The  figures  in  the  Square  Brackets  refer  to  the 
Articles  in  the  “Memorandum  of  Agreement”  re¬ 
ferred  to  in  Section  4  of  this  booklet. 

.1 

Addresses  of  Head  Offices  — 

Canada:  405  Huron  Street,  Toronto  5,  Ontario. 
Telephone:  Wa.  3-7765. 

United  States  of  America:  164  West  74th  Street, 
New  York  23,  N.Y.  Telephone:  En.  2-9350. 

Great  Britain:  84  Beulah  Hill,  London  S.  E.  19, 
England.  Telephone:  Liv.  3953. 

Australia:  20  Fellows  Street,  Kew  E.  4,  Victoria. 
Telephone:  WB  3566. 

New  Zealand:  Institute  Place,  427  Queen  Street, 
Auckland,  C.I.  Telephone:  45-707. 

South  Africa:  Box  3017,  Cape  Town.  Telephone: 
3-7794. 


Field  Addresses  — 

Arabia:  Ma’Alla  Village,  Aden  Colony. 

Ethiopia:  Box  127,  Addis  Ababa.  Telephone:  2348. 
French  West  Africa:  Maradi,  Niger. 

Liberia:  Radio  Station  ELWA,  Box  192,  Monrovia. 
Nigeria:  Jos,  Northern  Nigeria.  Telephone:  70. 
Somalia:  Box  29,  Mogadiscio. 

Sudan:  Box  220,  Khartoum.  Telephone:  2644. 
Eritrea:  Box  1151,  Asmara. 


Principles  and  Practice 
of  the 

SUDAN  INTERIOR  MISSION 

(Revised,  1958) 

1.  OBJECT 

The  Sudan  Interior  Mission  was  formed  in  1893 
by  Messrs.  Gowan,  Kent  and  Bingham,  under  a 
deep  sense  of  the  pressing  need  in  the  vast  areas 
across  Africa  then  known  as  the  Sudan,  and  with 
an  earnest  desire  constrained  by  the  love  of  Christ 
and  the  hope  of  His  coming,  to  obey  His  command 
to  preach  the  Gospel  to  every  creature.  Its  aim  is, 
by  the  help  of  God,  to  bring  men  to  a  saving 
knowledge  of  the  love  of  God  in  Christ  by  means 
of  itinerant  and  localized  work,  throughout  its  fields. 

2.  CHARACTER 

The  Mission  is  international,  evangelical,  and 
embraces  members  of  all  the  leading  denomina¬ 
tions  of  Christians.  [3] 

3.  CONSTITUTION 

The  Sudan  Interior  Mission  consists  of  a  body  of 
missionaries  serving  at  present  in  Nigeria,  French 
West  Africa,  Ethiopia,  Sudan,  Eritrea,  Somalia, 
Liberia,  Aden  Protectorate  and  Kenya  together 
with  the  members  of  the  Mission’s  Home  Depart¬ 
ments.  The  Mission  was  incorporated  in  Canada 
in  1909  and  in  the  United  States  of  America  in 
1926.  In  1957  these  two  Corporations  agreed  upon 
a  common  basis  of  administration  for  the  Mission 
as  a  whole,  after  consultation  with  the  representa¬ 
tives  of  the  Field  and  Overseas  Home  Councils. 
The  agreements  thus  reached  was  set  forth  in  a 
document  known  as  the  “Memorandum  of  Agree¬ 
ment”  being  an  agreement  made  between  the  two 
North  American  corporations  in  Toronto  on  the 
16th  of  July,  1957.  This  in  effect  is  the  Constitu¬ 
tion  of  the  Mission,  and  is  reproduced  in  the  next 
Section. 


-3- 


SUDAN  INTERIOR  MISSION 


4.  MEMORANDUM  OF  AGREEMENT 

THIS  AGREEMENT  effective  this  16th  day  of 
July,  1957  BETWEEN:  THE  SUDAN  INTERIOR 
MISSION  being  a  corporation  incorporated  in  the 
Province  of  Ontario,  in  the  Dominion  of  Canada 
with  its  registered  office  at  405  Huron  Street,  To¬ 
ronto,  in  the  Province  of  Ontario  aforesaid  (here¬ 
inafter  called  “The  Canadian  Corporation”)  of  the 
one  part,  and  the  SUDAN  INTERIOR  MISSION, 
INC.,  being  a  corporation  incorporated  in  the  State 
of  New  York  in  the  United  States  of  America  with 
its  registered  office  at  164  West  74th  Street,  New 
York,  in  the  State  of  New  York  aforesaid  (here¬ 
inafter  called  “The  United  States  Corporation”)  of 
the  other  part. 

WITNESSETH: 

(a)  The  Canadian  Corporation  was  incorporated 
under  the  Ontario  Companies  Act  of  the  Do¬ 
minion  of  Canada  on  the  14th  day  of  Septem¬ 
ber,  1909;  and 

(b)  The  United  States  Corporation  was  incorpor¬ 
ated  in  the  State  of  New  York  aforesaid  under 
the  Membership  Corporation  Law  on  the  24th 
day  of  April,  1926;  and 

(c)  The  United  States  Corporation  and  the  Cana¬ 
dian  Corporation,  since  their  organization,  have 
been  engaged  together  in  Christian  missionary 
work  in  Africa;  and 

(d)  Branches  have  been  founded  in  the  United 
Kingdom,  Australia,  New  Zealand,  and  South 
Africa  for  the  support  and  furtherance  of  the 
work  of  the  two  corporations  in  Africa;  and 

(e)  The  said  corporations,  the  branches  in  the 
United  Kingdom,  Australia,  New  Zealand,  and 
South  Africa,  and  the  general  body  of  the 
missionaries  with  their  work  are  together  col¬ 
lectively  known  as  “The  Sudan  Interior  Mis¬ 
sion”  and  are  hereinafter  collectively  referred 
to  as  “the  Mission”;  and 


-4- 


PRINCIPLES  AND  PRACTICE 


(f)  Because  of  the  great  expansion  of  the  work  in 
Africa  and  the  increase  in  the  number  of  mem¬ 
ber  missionaries  since  1926;  and 

(g)  To  enable  the  Fields  to  be  adequately  repre¬ 
sented  in  final  deliberations;  and 

(h)  To  provide  a  common  ground  of  administration; 
and 

(i)  To  provide  a  clear  understanding  of  the  defini¬ 
tion  of  the  inter-related  activities  and  responsi¬ 
bilities  of  the  various  bodies  hereinbefore 
mentioned;  therefore 

(j)  The  said  two  Corporations  wish  to  agree  to¬ 
gether  to  form  an  unified  basis  of  policy  and 
administration  and  have  accordingly  agreed  to 
work  together  hereafter  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions  hereinafter  contained. 

NOW  IT  IS  HEREBY  MUTUALLY  AGREED 
as  follows: 

1.  NAME 

The  Mission  shall  continue  to  be  known  in  gen¬ 
eral  as  “The  Sudan  Interior  Mission”,  with  the  pos¬ 
sible  exception  whereby  this  name  might  be  modi¬ 
fied  to  meet  a  local  situation  within  a  given  country 
if  the  name  “The  Sudan  Interior  Mission”  should 
be  considered  a  hindrance  to  the  work.  Any  such 
change  is  to  be  with  the  approval  of  the  General 
Director. 

2.  OBJECT 

To  develop  and  encourage  interest  in  missions; 
to  train  and  send  forth  missionaries  to  Africa  and 
such  other  parts  of  the  world  as  may  hereafter  be 
mutually  agreed  upon  by  the  Mission;  to  preach 
the  Gospel  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  with  the  aim 
of  establishing  churches  which  are  self-governing, 
self-supporting  and  self-propagating;  to  receive  and 
account  for  real  and  personal  property  and  funds 
hereafter  given  it  by  the  parties  hereto  or  any  of 
the  branches  herein  mentioned,  or  any  branches 


-5- 


SUDAN  INTERIOR  MISSION 


that  may  hereafter  be  formed,  for  the  furtherance 
of  the  work;  to  receive  and  forward  funds  so  re¬ 
ceived  for  the  support  of  such  missionaries  as  shall 
devote  themselves  to  the  work  of  the  Mission,  to 
have  charge  of  and  direct  missionary  efforts  in  the 
African  field  and  in  any  other  field  that  may  here¬ 
after  be  mutually  agreed  upon  by  the  Mission. 

3.  DOCTRINE 

The  Mission  shall  be  international,  interdenom¬ 
inational  and  evangelical.  No  person  shall  be  ad¬ 
mitted  to  or  allowed  to  retain  membership  in  either 
of  the  said  corporations  and/or  in  any  advisory  or 
other  Committee  or  Council  hereinafter  mentioned 
or  be  accepted  or  retained  as  a  missionary  in  the 
Mission  who  is  not  in  agreement  with  the  follow¬ 
ing  doctrinal  statement: 

(a)  The  Divine  authority  and  Plenary  Inspiration 
of  the  whole  Canonical  Scriptures  as  originally 
given:  II  Tim.  3:16,  17;  II  Pet.  1:21. 

(b)  The  Doctrine  of  the  Trinity:  II  Cor.  13:14; 
Matt.  28:19. 

(c)  The  fall  of  man  and  his  consequent  moral  de¬ 
pravity  and  need  of  regeneration:  Rom.  3:10; 
5:12. 

(d)  The  Atonement  through  the  substitutionary 
death  of  Christ:  Mark  10:45;  I  Pet.  3:18. 

(e)  The  Resurrection  and  Ascension  of  Christ: 
Luke  24:6,  51. 

(f)  The  Doctrine  of  Justification  by  Faith:  Rom. 
3:24-26;  Acts  13:39. 

(g)  Regeneration  by  the  Holy  Spirit:  I  Pet.  1:23- 
25;  James  1:18;  John  1:12,  13;  John  3:6. 

(h)  The  Second  Coming  of  Christ  and  the  Resur¬ 
rection  of  the  Dead:  I  Thess.  4:16,  17;  Acts 
24:15. 

(i)  The  Eternal  Blessedness  of  the  Saved  and 
the  Everlasting  punishment  of  the  Lost.  Matt. 
25:46. 


-6- 


PRINCIPLES  AND  PRACTICE 


(j)  The  Doctrine  of  Sanctification:  Heb.  12:14; 

I  Pet.  1:2;  John  17:17;  that  is,  personal  dedi¬ 
cation  of  self  to  God  and  practical  separation 
of  believers  from  the  world  and  the  things  of 
the  world:  John  17:14,  15;  I  John  2:15-17; 

II  Cor.  6:14-18. 

4.  GENERAL  COUNCIL 

The  general  administration  of  the  Mission  shall 
be  vested  in  the  General  Council  in  cooperation 
with  the  General  Director  as  hereinafter  provided. 
The  General  Council  shall  consist  of  the  following 
persons: 

(a)  Three  persons  being  members  of,  appointed  by, 
and  representing  the  Canadian  Corporation; 

(b)  Three  persons  being  members  of,  appointed  by, 
and  representing  the  United  States  Corporation; 

(c)  Two  persons  appointed  as  follows  and  repre¬ 
senting  the  Home  Councils  outside  North 
America  ( hereinafter  called  Overseas  Home 
Councils). 

(1)  One  person  being  a  member  of,  appointed 
by  and  representing  Great  Britain  as  one 
of  the  Home  Councils  outside  North 
America. 

(2)  One  person  appointed  by  and  representing 
the  Home  Councils  of  Australia,  New  Zea¬ 
land  and  South  Africa.  He  shall  be  a  mem¬ 
ber  of  one  of  these  Home  Councils  and 
shall  be  mutually  agreed  upon  and  ap¬ 
pointed  by  a  majority  vote  of  each  of 
these  three  Overseas  Home  Councils. 

(d)  Two  persons  being  members  of,  appointed 
by,  and  representing  the  West  Africa  Field 
Council; 

(e)  Two  persons  being  members  of,  appointed 
by,  and  representing  the  East  Africa  Field 
Council; 

(f)  The  General  Director; 

(g)  The  Associate  General  Director; 

-7- 


SUDAN  INTERIOR  MISSION 


(h)  The  Home  Director  for  North  America,  or  in 
his  absence  the  Deputy  Home  Director  will  be 
appointed  to  act. 

(i)  The  East  Africa  Field  Director,  or  in  his 
absence  the  Deputy  Field  Director  will  be 
appointed  to  act. 

(j)  The  West  Africa  Field  Director,  or  in  his 
absence  the  Deputy  Field  Director  will  be 
appointed  to  act. 

(1)  In  addition  to  the  above  named  members 
of  the  General  Council,  the  Canadian  Cor¬ 
poration  and  the  United  States  Corpora¬ 
tion  shall  each  appoint  three  alternates  in 
the  order  named  and  these  shall  be  auth¬ 
orized  to  be  present  and  act  in  the  place 
of  a  regular  member  or  members  of  the 
General  Council  for  which  such  alternates 
are  appointed  when  such  regular  member 
or  members  are  unable  to  be  present  at  a 
General  Council  meeting. 

(2)  The  West  Africa  Field  Council  and  the 
East  Africa  Field  Council  shall  each  ap¬ 
point  two  alternates  in  the  order  named 
and  these  shall  be  authorized  to  be  pres¬ 
ent  and  act  in  the  place  of  a  regular 
member  or  members  of  the  General  Coun¬ 
cil  for  which  such  alternates  are  appointed 
when  such  regular  member  or  members 
are  unable  to  be  present  at  a  General 
Council  meeting. 

(3)  Alternates  shall  be  appointed  by  the  Over¬ 
seas  Home  Councils,  which  alternates  are 
authorized  to  be  present  and  act  for  the 
regular  members  of  the  Overseas  Home 
Councils  when  such  regular  members  are 
unable  to  be  present  at  a  General  Council 
meeting. 

(k)  The  three  Canadian  Corporation  members  and 
the  three  United  States  Corporation  members, 
and  the  members  representing  the  Overseas 
Home  Councils  shall  be  appointed  for  a  term 

-8- 


PRINCIPLES  AND  PRACTICE 


of  three  years.  However,  the  initial  appoint¬ 
ment  at  the  inception  of  this  agreement  for 
each  of  the  North  American  Corporations  shall 
be  as  follows:  One  member  shall  be  elected  for 
a  period  of  one  year;  one  member  shall  be 
elected  for  a  period  of  two  years;  one  member 
for  a  period  of  three  years.  Thereafter  every 
year  each  of  the  North  American  Corporations 
shall  elect  one  member  for  a  period  of  three 
years. 

The  two  West  Africa  Field  Council  members 
and  the  two  East  Africa  Field  Council  mem¬ 
bers  shall  be  elected  for  a  term  of  two  years. 
However,  the  initial  appointment  at  the  in¬ 
ception  of  this  agreement  for  each  of  the  two 
Field  Council  members  shall  be  as  follows: 
One  member  shall  be  elected  for  a  period  of 
one  year  and  one  member  for  a  period  of  two 
years.  Thereafter  in  each  year,  each  of  the 
Field  Councils  shall  elect  one  member  for  a 
period  of  two  years. 

Any  Corporation  or  Council  may  at  any  time 
at  its  sole  discretion  terminate  the  representa¬ 
tion  of  any  or  all  of  its  members,  and  replace 
the  same  by  other  duly  elected  members.  In 
the  event  of  such  a  change  in  representation, 
the  Recording  Secretary  of  the  General  Coun¬ 
cil  shall  be  notified  immediately. 

5.  OFFICERS  OF  THE  GENERAL  COUNCIL 

The  regular  officers  of  the  General  Council  shall 
be  Chairman,  Vice-Chairman  and  Recording  Secre¬ 
tary.  The  Recording  Secretary  and  such  other  offi¬ 
cers  as  from  time  to  time  may  be  deemed  necessary 
by  the  General  Council  shall  be  elected  from  among 
its  members. 


-9- 


SUDAN  INTERIOR  MISSION 


6.  PROCEEDINGS  OF  THE  GENERAL 
COUNCIL 

(a)  The  first  meeting  of  the  General  Council  shall 
be  called  by  the  General  Director  within  ninety 
days  of  the  signing  of  this  Memorandum  of 
Agreement.  Thereafter  the  General  Council 
shall  meet  at  least  once  in  every  five  years,  at 
time  and  place  mutually  agreed  upon.  In  the 
event  of  the  death,  resignation,  or  incapacita¬ 
tion  of  the  General  Director,  the  General  Coun¬ 
cil  shall  be  convened  to  approve  the  nomination 
of  a  successor.  It  may  be  convened  upon  ma¬ 
jority  vote  of  the  members  of  the  General 
Council  and  action  will  be  taken  by  the  Re¬ 
cording  Secretary  so  to  convene. 

(b)  A  quorum  shall  consist  of  twelve  members  of 
the  Council  personally  present  or  represented 
by  alternates. 

(c)  Notification  of  all  meetings  called  shall  be  sent 
in  sufficient  time  to  be  normally  received  at 
least  sixty  days  in  advance  of  the  date  of  the 
meeting,  unless  otherwise  mutually  agreed  upon 
by  all  members  of  the  General  Council.  All 
members  shall  be  advised  fully  of  the  primary 
purpose  of  the  meeting. 

(d)  The  General  Director  shall  be  the  chairman  of 
the  General  Council  and  the  Associate  General 
Director  the  Vice-Chairman,  except  when  either 
is  personally  involved  in  a  matter  to  be  con¬ 
sidered.  In  the  latter  circumstance  or  in  the 
absence  of  both,  the  General  Council  shall 
appoint  a  temporary  Chairman  from  among 
its  members. 

(e)  A  resolution  agreed  to  and  signed  by  all  tire 
members  of  the  General  Council  shall  be  as 
valid  and  effectual  as  if  it  had  been  passed 
at  a  meeting  of  the  Council  duly  called  and 
constituted. 


-10- 


PRINCIPLES  AND  PRACTICE 


7.  GENERAL  DIRECTOR 

(a)  The  administration  of  the  work  as  a  whole 
shall  be  delegated  to  the  General  Director  by 
the  General  Council  and  he  shall  be  charged 
with  the  general  oversight  of  the  Mission. 

(b)  The  General  Director  shall  be  appointed  by 
the  General  Council,  after  it  has  been  ascer¬ 
tained  by  that  Council  that  the  proposed  nom¬ 
inee  is  acceptable  to  the  General  Council,  to 
the  Field  Councils  and  Home  Boards  of  Direc¬ 
tors  and  Councils  and  to  the  body  of  Senior 
missionaries  ( as  defined  in  “Principles  and 
Practice”)  by  a  three-quarter  majority  of  votes 
cast  by  secret  ballot.  Any  member  of  tire  Mis¬ 
sion  may  recommend  to  the  General  Council 
names  for  consideration  for  the  office  of  Gen¬ 
eral  Director. 

(c)  The  General  Director  is  the  Mission’s  chief 
executive  officer  and  shall  cooperate  with  the 
General  Council  in  administrative  work.  He 
will  seek  under  the  guidance  of  the  Holy  Spirit 
to  secure  the  harmonious  working  of  the  Mis¬ 
sion  as  a  whole,  and  seek  to  further  its  work 
at  all  times  whether  by  consolidation  or  exten¬ 
sion.  Any  new  Home  Council  will  be  formed 
by  the  General  Director. 

(d)  He  will  confer  with  the  respective  Directors 
hereinafter  mentioned  in  their  areas  and  seek 
agreement  with  them  on  any  major  scheme  or 
matter  affecting  their  respective  areas  before 
action  is  taken. 

(e)  The  General  Director  may  be  removed  from 
office  by  the  General  Council. 

(f)  Pending  the  appointment  of  a  General  Direc¬ 
tor,  and  when  there  is  no  Associate  General 
Director,  the  General  Council  shall  take  such 
steps  as  may  be  necessary  for  the  administra¬ 
tion  of  the  Mission,  appointing  someone  as 
Acting  General  Director  in  the  interim. 


-  11  - 


SUDAN  INTERIOR  MISSION 


8.  ASSOCIATE  GENERAL  DIRECTOR 

(a)  An  Associate  General  Director  shall  be  ap¬ 
pointed  by  the  General  Director  with  the  ap¬ 
proval  of  the  General  Council.  He  will  be  an 
executive  officer  of  the  Mission  and  will  assist 
the  General  Director  in  the  general  oversight 
of  the  Mission,  be  responsible  to  him  and  act 
as  his  deputy. 

(b)  The  General  Director  shall  nominate  the  candi¬ 
date  for  appointment,  but  no  appointment  shall 
be  made  until  it  has  been  ascertained  by  the 
General  Council  that  the  proposed  nominee  is 
acceptable  to  the  body  of  Senior  missionaries 
by  a  three-quarter  majority  of  votes  cast  by 
secret  ballot. 

(c)  The  Associate  General  Director  may  be  re¬ 
moved  by  the  General  Director  with  the  ap¬ 
proval  of  the  General  Council. 

9.  HOME  DEPARTMENTS 

(a)  The  work  in  each  Home  Country  is  adminis¬ 
tered  by  a  Home  Director  assisted  by  a  Home 
Secretary  and  a  Home  Council  and  as  neces¬ 
sary  by  a  Deputy  Home  Director. 

(1)  The  Home  Director  shall  be  appointed  by 
the  General  Director  with  the  approval  of 
the  General  Council  and  the  Home  Coun¬ 
cil  or  Councils  concerned  after  a  three- 

auarter  majority  vote  by  secret  ballot  of 
le  Mission  Home  staff  members  of  the 
Home  country  or  countries  concerned. 

(2)  The  Deputy  Home  Director  and  the  Home 
Secretary  shall  be  appointed  by  the  Home 
Director  with  the  approval  of  the  General 
Director,  the  General  Council  and  the 
Home  Council  or  Councils  concerned,  and 
after  a  three-quarter  majority  vote  by 
secret  ballot  of  the  Mission  Home  staff 
members  of  the  Home  country  or  countries 
concerned. 

(b)  The  Home  Director  shall  be  assisted  by  a 
Home  Council,  the  members  of  which  shall 


-12- 


PRINCIPLES  AND  PRACTICE 


be  appointed  by  the  General  Director  on  the 
unanimous  approval  of  the  existing  respective 
Board  of  Directors  or  tire  Home  Council  then 
acting  if  no  corporation  exists. 

(c)  The  Home  Director  shall  be  the  Chairman  of 
the  Home  Council,  except  when  the  General 
Director  or  the  Associate  General  Director  is 
present  and  occupies  the  chair. 

(d)  The  Home  Director,  assisted  by  the  Deputy 
Home  Director,  the  Home  Secretary  and  the 
Home  Council,  and  authorized  by  the  Board 
of  Directors  where  existent,  shall  have  execu¬ 
tive  powers  locally  as  delegated  by  the  General 
Director  for  the  furtherance  of  the  work  within 
the  Mission’s  agreed  policy.  He  shall  confer 
with  the  General  Director  and/or  the  Associate 
General  Director  and  seek  their  guidance  and 
help  at  all  times  as  necessary,  and  particularly 
on  matters  of  major  importance.  The  Home  Di¬ 
rector,  under  the  direction  of  the  Board  of 
Directors  of  any  Home  Corporation,  may  ap¬ 
point  committees  as  necessary  for  the  further¬ 
ance  of  any  particular  portion  of  the  work  in 
the  Home  Country. 

(e)  In  any  Home  Country  where  there  is  a  Home 
Council  but  not  a  Home  Director,  the  Chair¬ 
man  of  the  Home  Council,  appointed  by  the 
Home  Council,  shall  act  as  Home  Director. 

(f)  If  incorporation  is  desirable  in  any  Home  Coun¬ 
try,  a  corporation  may  be  established  for  the 
purpose  of  acting  as  trustee  for  the  Mission 
and  any  property  or  funds  not  held  on  specific 
trusts  shall  be  held  upon  trust  for  the  Mission. 

10.  FIELD  DEPARTMENTS 

(a)  The  African  Mission  Field  as  a  whole  shall  be 
divided  into  two  regions  known  as  the  West 
Africa  Field  and  the  East  Africa  Field.  Each 
field  shall  be  administered  by  a  Field  Director 
assisted  by  a  Field  Council,  a  Deputy  Field 


-13- 


SUDAN  INTERIOR  MISSION 


Director  and  a  Field  Secretary,  and  in  major 
sub-divisions  by  a  Field  Superintendent.  Three- 
quarters  of  the  total  members  of  the  respective 
Field  Councils  shall  constitute  a  quorum. 

(b)  The  Field  Director  shall  be  appointed  by  the 
General  Director  after  approval  by  the  Field 
Council  or  Councils  concerned,  and  after  a 
three-quarter  majority  of  votes  cast  by  secret 
ballot  of  the  Senior  missionaries  of  that  field  on 
the  active  field  list. 

(c)  The  Deputy  Field  Director  and  the  Field  Sec¬ 
retary  shall  be  appointed  by  the  Field  Director 
after  the  approval  of  the  Field  Council  con¬ 
cerned  and  a  three-quarter  majority  of  votes 
cast  by  secret  ballot  of  the  Junior  (as  defined 
in  “Principles  and  Practice”)  and  Senior  mis¬ 
sionaries  of  that  field  on  the  active  field  list. 

(d)  The  Field  Superintendent  shall  be  appointed 
by  the  Field  Director  after  the  approval  of  the 
Field  Council  concerned  and  a  three-quarter 
majority  of  votes  cast  by  secret  ballot  of  the 
Junior  and  Senior  Missionaries  of  the  field  sub¬ 
division  concerned  on  the  active  field  list.  He 
shall  be  assisted  by  a  Deputy  Field  Superin¬ 
tendent  elected  by  the  same  method  and  shall 
be  advised  on  matters  relating  to  that  field 
sub-division  by  an  Associate  Field  Council 
made  up  of  the  District  Superintendent  of 
that  Field  sub-division. 

(e)  The  Field  Director  in  consultation  with  the 
Field  Council  concerned  shall  decide  upon  the 
necessary  district  sub-divisions  in  each  field 
area.  Each  of  these  sub-divisions  shall  be 
represented  by  a  District  Superintendent.  The 
District  Superintendent  shall  be  nominated 
from  among  the  Senior  missionaries  of  the  dis¬ 
trict  concerned  by  Junior  and  Senior  mission¬ 
aries  of  that  district.  The  ballot  shall  have  at 
least  two  names  and  the  election  shall  be  by 
simple  majority. 


-14- 


PRINCIPLES  AND  PRACTICE 


(f)  The  Field  Director  shall  be  assisted  by  a  Field 
Council  which  shall  consist  of  the  District  Su¬ 
perintendents  together  with  the  Deputy  Field 
Director,  the  Field  Superintendents  and  the 
Field  Secretary,  and  shall  be  Chairman  of  that 
Council  except  when  the  General  Director  or 
Associate  General  Director  is  present  and  occu¬ 
pies  the  chair. 

(g)  The  Field  Director,  assisted  by  the  Deputy 
Field  Director,  the  Field  Superintendents  and 
the  Field  Secretary  and  assisted  by  the  Field 
Council,  shall  have  executive  powers  locally, 
as  delegated  by  the  General  Director  for  the 
furtherance  of  the  work  within  the  Mission’s 
agreed  policy.  He  shall  confer  with  the  Gen¬ 
eral  Director  and/or  the  Associate  General  Di¬ 
rector  and  seek  their  guidance  and  help  at  all 
times  as  necessary  and  particularly  on  matters 
of  major  importance. 

11.  RETIREMENT  AND  REMOVAL  OF 
OFFICERS  AND  MISSIONARIES 

(a)  All  office  holders  mentioned  in  this  agreement 
other  than  the  General  Director  and  the  Asso¬ 
ciate  General  Director,  the  work  of  both  being 
subject  to  review  by  the  General  Council,  and 
those  whose  appointments  terminate  when  pro¬ 
ceeding  on  furlough,  shall  serve  for  five  years, 
after  which  time  they  shall  be  eligible  for  re¬ 
appointment  in  the  manner  required  for  their 
original  appointments. 

(b)  Any  missionary  of  the  Mission  on  the  allow¬ 
ance  roll  other  than  the  General  Director  and 
Associate  General  Director  may  be  removed  at 
any  time  by  the  General  Director  with  the 
approval  of  the  Field  Council  and/or  Home 
Councils  concerned  from  his  appointment  as 
a  missionary,  or  from  any  office  or  from  any 
committee  or  council  of  which  he  is  a  member 
in  the  Mission,  after  he  has  appeared  before 


-15- 


SUDAN  INTERIOR  MISSION 


the  Field  Council  or  the  Home  Council  con¬ 
cerned,  if  he  so  desires. 

(c)  The  statutory  age  of  retirement  from  office  for 
all  officers  of  the  Mission,  whether  Home  or 
Field,  shall  be  65  years. 

(d)  Any  member  of  a  Home  Council  serving  in  an 
honorary  capacity,  or  any  honorary  officer,  may 
be  removed  at  any  time  on  a  two-thirds  ma¬ 
jority  vote  of  the  Council  concerned,  provided 
that  notice  of  the  proposal  is  given  at  the  pre¬ 
ceding  regular  meeting  of  the  Council. 

12.  GENERAL 

(a)  In  all  deliberations  of  all  Councils  every  en¬ 
deavor  shall  be  made  to  reach  unanimity  under 
the  guidance  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  All  chairmen 
shall  seek  by  prayer  and  patience,  extending 
if  necessary  over  more  than  one  session  or 
conference,  that  unanimity  may  be  reached. 
If  in  the  opinion  of  the  Chairman  this  is  not 
possible  the  matter  may  be  left  in  abeyance, 
or  if  calling  for  an  early  decision,  then  the 
decision  passed  by  not  less  than  a  three-quar¬ 
ter  majority  vote  of  those  present  shall  be 
effective.  Nothing  in  this  clause,  however,  shall 
affect  the  Canadian  Corporation  and  the  United 
States  Corporation  in  their  meetings,  which 
shall  continue  to  be  governed  by  the  require¬ 
ments  of  their  own  charters. 

(b)  Any  matter  which  in  the  opinion  of  any  Coun¬ 
cil  has  major  and/or  Missionwide  implications 
shall  be  referred  to  the  General  Director 
(through  the  Associate  General  Director  where 
applicable)  with  the  request  that  the  General 
Council  shall  be  consulted,  if  the  submitting 
Council  considers  this  necessary. 

(c)  Similar  procedures  will  be  followed  by  chair¬ 
men  of  committees,  but  in  such  cases  the  mat¬ 
ter  will  be  referred  to  the  appropriate  Home  or 
Field  Director. 


-16- 


PRINCIPLES  AND  PRACTICE 


(d)  The  Power  of  Attorney  required  for  the  general 
administration  of  the  Mission  shall  be  granted 
to  the  General  Director  and  such  person  or 
persons  as  may  be  requested  and  approved  by 
the  General  Director,  by  either  the  Canadian 
Corporation  or  the  United  States  Corporation. 

(e)  This  Memorandum  of  Agreement  comes  into 
force  on  the  date  of  signing.  Existing  office¬ 
holders  other  than  those  whose  appointments 
terminate  when  proceeding  on  furlough  shall 
be  eligible  for  consideration  for  reappointment 
on  completing  five  years  of  service  from  the 
date  of  their  original  appointment.  If  they 
have  already  served  more  than  five  years,  such 
service  may  be  extended  for  not  more  than 
one  year  before  reappointment  is  considered. 

13.  PRINCIPLES  AND  PRACTICE 

Common  “Principles  and  Practice”  governing  all 
members  of  the  Mission  shall  be  issued  by  the 
General  Council  after  consideration  of  the  views 
of  all  Mission  Councils.  They  shall  be  subscribed 
to  in  their  entirety  by  each  member  of  the  Mission, 
and  individually  by  all  members  of  any  advisory  or 
other  committee  or  Council  herein  mentioned  and 
each  holder  of  any  office  herein  mentioned.  Any 
amendments  or  alterations  to  “Principles  and  Prac¬ 
tice”  shall  be  made  by  the  General  Council. 

14.  AMENDMENTS 

This  Memorandum  of  Agreement  may  be 
amended  only  by  unanimous  agreement  by  the 
two  Corporations  after  consultation  with  the  Gen¬ 
eral  Council. 

15.  TERMINATION  OF  AGREEMENT 

(a)  In  the  event  of  the  cessation  of  activities  on 
the  Mission  Fields  this  Memorandum  of  Agree¬ 
ment  shall  be  automatically  cancelled  and  all 
matters  of  business  in  relation  to  real  and  per¬ 
sonal  property  and  funds  shall  revert  to  and 


-17- 


SUDAN  INTERIOR  MISSION 


be  the  joint  responsibility  of  the  Canadian  and 
United  States  Corporations. 

(b)  This  agreement  may  be  terminated  by  either 
the  Canadian  or  United  States  Corporations  by 
not  less  than  three  months’  notice  in  writing 
given  by  either  party  to  the  other  and  to  the 
General  Council,  and  after  action  duly  taken 
by  the  Canadian  Council  and  the  United  States 
Board  of  Directors  respectively. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the  parties  hereto  have 
caused  these  presents  to  be  signed  by  their  proper 
corporate  officers  and  caused  their  corporate  seals 
to  be  hereto  affixed. 

SUDAN  INTERIOR  MISSION 
(A  corporation  incorporated  in  the 
Province  of  Ontario) 

By  /s/  G.  W.  Playfair 

(G.  W.  Playfair)  President 

ATTEST: 

/s/  R.  B.  Oliver 

(R.  B.  Oliver)  Secretary 
(Corporate  Seal) 

SUDAN  INTERIOR  MISSION,  INC. 
(A  New  York  Corporation) 

By  /s/  G.  W.  Playfair 

(G.  W.  Playfair)  President 

ATTEST: 

/s/  A.  B.  Holm 
(A.  B.  Holm)  Secretary 
(Corporate  Seal) 

5.  PRINCIPLES  AND  PRACTICE 

Under  Article  13  of  the  Memorandum  of  Agree¬ 
ment  the  General  Council  is  empowered  to  issue 
“Principles  and  Practice”  governing  all  members  of 
the  Mission,  and  this  booklet  is  issued  in  accord¬ 
ance  with  that  authority.  [13] 

6.  GENERAL  COUNCIL 

(a)  The  administration  of  the  Mission  as  a 
-  18- 


PRINCIPLES  AND  PRACTICE 


whole  is  vested  in  a  General  Council  in  cooperation 
with  the  General  Director,  [4]  who  is  the  Chair¬ 
man  of  the  Council  [6(d)]  and  to  whom  is  dele¬ 
gated  the  general  oversight  of  the  Mission  [7(a)]. 
An  Associate  General  Director  is  appointed  as  Dep¬ 
uty  to  the  General  Director.  [8(a)] 

( b )  One  of  the  functions  of  the  General  Council 
is  to  formulate  policy.  It  therefore  deals  primarily 
with  principles  as  distinct  from  individuals.  Policies 
thus  formed  guide  Councils  in  their  deliberations. 
Personal  requests  direct  to  the  General  Council  are 
not  in  order.  They  should  be  directed  to  the  Home 
or  Field  Council  concerned. 

(c)  The  General  Council  will: 

(i)  Review  the  policy  and  operation  of  the 
Mission. 

(ii)  Receive  and  carefully  consider  the  fi¬ 
nancial  reports  and  status  of  the  Home 
and  Field  departments  of  the  Mission. 

(iii)  Issue  from  time  to  time  reports  of  Gen¬ 
eral  Council  action.  These  will  be  sent 
to  all  members  of  the  Mission. 

(iv)  Issue  copies  of  the  minutes  of  General 
Council  meetings  to: 

members  of  the  General  Council 
chairmen  of  all  Councils. 

(d)  Appointment  of  General  Director 

For  the  appointment  of  a  General  Director  it 
shall  be  the  duty  of  the  General  Council  to  seek 
recommendations  for  nomination  from  the  Mission 
body,  including  members  of  all  Councils.  These 
recommendations  shall  be  in  the  possession  of  the 
Recording  Secretary  before  the  meeting  of  the 
General  Council  is  convened  at  which  the  appoint¬ 
ment  is  considered.  They  shall  be  held  unopened 
until  such  time  as  the  committee  appointed  by  the 
General  Council  shall  open  and  tabulate  them. 

The  recommendations  shall  be  submitted  to  the 
General  Council  while  in  session.  After  prayer  and 
discussion,  the  General  Council  shall,  by  secret 


-19- 


SUDAN  INTERIOR  MISSION 


ballot,  select  their  nominee  by  not  less  than  a 
three-quarter  majority  vote  of  those  present. 

The  election  and  appointment  of  the  nominee 
shall  then  proceed  as  provided  in  Section  7(b)  of 
the  Memorandum  of  Agreement. 

(e)  Appointment  of  the  Associate  General 
Director 

The  procedure  is  shown  at  Article  8(b)  of  the 
Memorandum  of  Agreement. 

(f)  Convening  of  General  Council  Meetings 

An  ordinary  General  Council  meeting  will  be 

held  not  less  than  once  in  five  years,  and  will  be 
convened  by  the  General  Director. 

Extraordinary  meetings  may  be  called  by  the 
General  Director,  or  on  a  majority  vote  of  all  the 
General  Council  members.  [6(a)] 

7.  HOME  DEPARTMENT 

(a)  Work  in  each  Home  Country  is  adminis¬ 
tered  by  a  Home  Director,  assisted  by  a  Home 
Secretary  and  Home  Council  and,  as  necessary,  by 
a  Deputy  Home  Director.  [9(a)] 

( b )  Home  Director :  F or  the  appointment  or  re¬ 
appointment  of  a  Home  Director  it  shall  be  the 
duty  of  the  General  Director  to  make  a  nomination 
to  the  Council  or  Councils  concerned.  It  shall  then 
be  the  duty  of  the  Council  or  Councils  concerned, 
if  they  approve  the  nomination,  to  seek  a  vote  of 
confidence  from  the  Home  Staff.  The  said  Council 
or  Councils  will  then  forward  the  result  of  the  find¬ 
ings  to  the  General  Council  for  its  aproval.  [9(a)(1)] 

(c)  Deputy  Home  Director  and  Home  Secretary: 
For  the  appointment  or  reappointment  of  a  Deputy 
Home  Director  and/or  a  Home  Secretary,  it  shall 
be  the  duty  of  the  Home  Director  to  make  a  nom¬ 
ination  to  the  Council  or  Councils  concerned.  It 
shall  then  be  the  duty  of  the  Council  or  Councils 
concerned  if  the  General  Director  and  they  approve 
the  nomination  to  seek  a  vote  of  confidence  from 
the  Home  Staff.  The  said  Council  or  Councils  will 


-20- 


PRINCIPLES  AND  PRACTICE 


then  forward  the  result  of  the  findings  to  the  Gen¬ 
eral  Council  for  its  approval.  [9(a)(2)] 

(d)  When  Field  Council  members  go  on  fur¬ 
lough,  they  should,  if  practicable,  attend  one  ses¬ 
sion  of  their  Home  Country  Council. 

8.  FIELD  DEPARTMENT 

(a)  The  African  Mission  Field  is  divided  into 
two  regions  known  as  the  West  Africa  Field  and 
the  East  Africa  Field.  Each  is  administered  by  a 
Field  Director,  assisted  by  a  Field  Council.  [10(a)] 

(b)  Field  Director:  For  the  appointment  or  re¬ 
appointment  of  a  Field  Director  it  shall  be  the  duty 
of  the  General  Director  to  make  a  nomination  to 
the  Field  Council  concerned  which  when  it  is 
approved  by  the  Field  Council  will  be  forwarded 
to  the  Senior  Missionaries  for  a  vote  of  confidence. 
[10(b)] 

(c)  Deputy  Field  Director  and  Field  Secretary: 
For  the  appointment  or  reappointment  of  a  Deputy 
Field  Director  and/or  Field  Secretary,  it  shall  be 
the  duty  of  the  Field  Director  to  present  to  the 
Field  Council  concerned  his  nomination  for  each 
office.  If  this  nomination  meets  the  approval  of  the 
Field  Council,  it  will  forward  the  nomination  to 
the  Junior  and  Senior  Missionaries  for  a  vote  of 
confidence.  [10(c)] 

9.  PERSONNEL  (BEFORE 
APPOINTMENT) 

(a)  Candidates  are  expected  to  satisfy  them¬ 
selves  on  the  Principles  and  Practice  of  the  Mission, 
and  not  to  offer  themselves  unless  they  cordially 
approve  of  them  and  heartily  desire  to  carry  them 
out.  They  must  count  the  cost,  and  be  prepared  to 
live  lives  of  privation,  of  toil,  of  loneliness,  of  dan¬ 
ger;  to  be  looked  down  upon  by  their  own  country¬ 
men,  and  to  be  despised  by  the  nationals;  to  live  in 
the  interior,  far  from  the  comforts  and  advantages 
of  society  and  protection  such  as  they  have  en¬ 
joyed  at  home.  They  will  need  to  trust  God,  as 
able  to  meet  their  need  in  sickness  as  well  as  in 


-21  - 


SUDAN  INTERIOR  MISSION 


health,  since  it  may  sometimes  be  impossible  to 
have  recourse  to  the  aid  of  qualified  physicians. 
But,  if  faithful  servants,  they  will  find  in  Christ 
and  His  Word  a  fullness,  a  meetness,  a  precious¬ 
ness,  a  joy,  and  strength,  that  will  far  outweigh  all 
that  they  have  sacrificed. 

(b)  Candidates  are  expected  to  satisfy  the  Direc¬ 
tor  and  the  Council  to  which  they  apply  as  to  their 
soundness  in  the  faith  on  all  fundamental  truths, 
by  submitting  together  with  their  schedule  of  ap¬ 
plication,  a  statement  of  their  convictions  as  to  the 
Doctrinal  Principles  of  the  Mission,  as  detailed  in 
Article  3  of  the  Memorandum  of  Agreement. 

(c)  Candidates  must  be  able  to  have  fellowship 
with  all  believers  holding  the  fundamental  truths 
as  stated  in  the  Memorandum  of  Agreement,  [(3)] 
even  if  widely  differing  in  their  judgment  as  to 
points  of  church  government.  If  conscious  that 
their  views  differ  in  any  important  point  from  those 
held  by  evangelical  Christians  ( such  as  speaking  in 
tongues,  Healing  in  the  Atonement,  or  other  views 
which  introduce  a  divisive  element  into  the  Mission 
family),  they  are  expected  to  state  this.  Should  the 
views  of  any  missionary  regarding  the  above-men¬ 
tioned  Doctrinal  Principles  of  the  Mission  subse¬ 
quently  change  after  appointment  to  the  Mission 
he  must,  if  on  the  field,  inform  the  Field  Director, 
or  his  Deputy,  of  the  change;  and  if  at  home,  the 
General  Director  or  the  Home  Director  for  the 
country  from  which  he  went  out;  and  whether  on 
the  field  or  at  home  he  must  be  prepared  to  resign 
his  connection  with  the  Mission. 

(d)  No  candidates  are  accepted  who  do  not 
abstain  from  the  use  of  tobacco  and  alcoholic 
drinks.  [3(j)] 

(e)  A  candidate  is  required  to  disclose  and  dis¬ 
cuss  frankly  with  the  Home  Director  for  his  area 
any  personal  problems  and  experience  in  his  life 
which  he  knows  might  be  a  hindrance  to  his  work 
as  a  missionary. 


-22- 


PRINCIPLES  AND  PRACTICE 


10.  PERSONNEL  (AFTER 
APPOINTMENT) 

( a )  Candidates  who  have  been  accepted  as  mis- 
sionaries-under-appointment  by  any  Home  Depart¬ 
ment  are,  during  their  residence  on  the  field,  under 
the  direction  of  the  Field  Department.  They  pursue 
a  definite  course  of  language  study,  are  from  time 
to  time  examined  in  the  same,  and  engage  in  mis¬ 
sionary  work. 

(b)  At  the  end  of  two  years,  having  approved 
themselves,  and  being  in  satisfactory  state  of  health, 
they  will  be  recognized  as  Junior  Missionaries  and 
continue  as  such  for  the  next  three  years.  But, 
should  they  have  proved  unstable,  or  unable  to 
cope  with  the  difficulties  of  the  language,  to  bear 
the  climate,  to  harmonize  with  their  brethren,  or  to 
adapt  themselves  to  the  African  peoples,  or  should 
they  otherwise  have  shown  themselves  unsuitable, 
the  Field  Director  or  his  deputy  will  either  prolong 
the  probation  or  make  the  best  arrangement  to 
facilitate  their  withdrawal  from  the  field. 

(c)  Missionaries-under-appointment  and  Junior 
Missionaries  will  be  placed  where  practicable  un¬ 
der  the  superintendence  of  Senior  Missionaries  in 
charge  of  stations,  whom  they  will  assist  in  the 
work.  Should  the  convictions  of  any  missionary- 
under-appointment  or  Junior  missionary  differ  on 
some  points  from  those  of  the  missionary-in-charge, 
he  is  not  to  attempt  to  unsettle  the  minds  of  other 
missionaries,  converts,  or  African  workers.  If  the 
difference  of  convictions  be  so  great  as  to  prevent 
happy  fellowship  on  a  station,  the  Field  Director 
or  his  deputy  will  take  steps  to  remedy  the  situa¬ 
tion  by  transfer  or  some  other  means. 

(d)  Senior  Missionaries  are  those  who  five  years 
after  arrival  on  the  field,  have  passed  all  the  re¬ 
quired  examinations  in  the  language,  and/or  have 
otherwise  approved  themselves. 

(e)  A  Missionary-in-charge  superintends  a  sta¬ 
tion  and  area,  and  has  the  oversight  of  those  resid¬ 
ing  and  working  therein. 


-23- 


SUDAN  INTERIOR  MISSION 


(f)  A  District  Superintendent  appointed  under 
the  conditions  of  Article  10(e)  of  the  Memorandum 
of  Agreement  takes  general  oversight  of  all  the 
work  within  his  District,  which  consists  of  a  group 
of  areas  under  missionaries-in-charge.  His  duties 
include 

Submission  of  matters  to  local  government 
officials 

Visitation  of  mission  stations  at  least  once  a  year, 
and  oftener  if  possible 

Consultation  with  missionaries,  not  only  on  de¬ 
tails  of  the  work  but  for  encouragement,  prayer, 
and  devotional  Bible  study. 

In  matters  of  gravity,  he  will  call  together  the 
senior  missionaries  in  the  District  for  prayer  and 
conference. 

( g )  Missionaries  are  members  and  not  agents  of 
the  Mission. 

11.  SUPPORT 

The  Mission  is  supported  entirely  by  the  free¬ 
will  offerings  of  tire  Lord’s  people.  The  needs  of 
the  work  are  laid  before  the  Lord  in  prayer  and  be¬ 
fore  the  Mission’s  praying  constituency,  but  neither 
personal  solicitation  nor  collections  are  authorized. 
The  latter  if  freely  offered  are  not  refused.  No 
more  is  expended  than  is  thus  received.  To  go  in 
debt  is  considered  inconsistent  with  the  principle 
of  entire  dependence  upon  God.  The  Directors, 
therefore,  cannot  and  do  not  promise  or  guarantee 
any  fixed  amount  of  support  to  the  workers.  They 
seek  faithfully  to  distribute  the  funds,  and  to  meet 
the  need  of  each  worker.  Every  member  of  the 
Mission  is  expected  to  recognize  that  his  depend¬ 
ence  for  the  supply  of  his  need  is  in  God,  Who 
called  him,  and  for  Whom  he  labors,  and  not  on 
the  human  organization. 

Candidates,  therefore,  when  approved  are  ex¬ 
pected  to  look  to  God  for  the  supply  of  their  needs 
in  regard  to  support,  passage  money  and  outfit. 
While  they  may  under  some  circumstances  be 


-24- 


PRINCIPLES  AND  PRACTICE 


assisted  in  these,  and  may  be  supported  in  whole 
or  in  part  by  the  funds  of  the  Mission,  their  faith 
must  be  in  God,  their  expectation  from  Him.  The 
funds  might  fail,  or  the  Mission  might  cease  to 
exist;  but  if  they  put  their  trust  in  Him,  He  will 
never  fail  nor  disappoint  them. 

12.  FINANCE 

(a)  All  monies  received  undesignated  (other 
than  those  approved  for  recurring  services)  shall 
be  allocated  by  the  General  Director  or  Associate 
General  Director.  Each  field  allocation  will  be  des¬ 
ignated  by  the  Field  authorities  who  will  notify  the 
Home  authorities  of  such  designation  as  necessary. 

(b)  The  Home  Departments  are  responsible  for 
the  disbursement  of  all  funds  in  their  respective 
countries,  for  making  remittances  to  the  Field  De¬ 
partments,  for  securing  an  annual  audit,  and  for 
the  publication  of  an  abstract  of  accounts. 

(c)  The  Field  Director  is  responsible  for  the 
disbursement  of  funds  remitted  to  or  received  in 
the  field,  for  preparing  the  accounts  for  audit,  and 
for  transmitting  the  same  to  the  Home  Departments 
in  order  that  the  abstract  may  be  published  simul¬ 
taneously  with  the  accounts  of  those  departments. 

13.  SPHERES  OF  LABOR 

Missionaries  will  never  be  appointed  to  perman¬ 
ent  spheres  of  labor  without  their  cordial  concur¬ 
rence,  but  all  are  expected  to  be  willing  to  give 
temporary  help  to  their  brethren,  when  asked  to 
do  so.  They  should  proceed  to  their  destination 
without  unnecessary  delay  and  remain  at  their 
posts,  unless  circumstances  of  great  emergency 
compel  them  to  leave.  Should  they  not  feel  happy 
in  their  work  they  must  inform  the  District  Super¬ 
intendent,  and  even  though  the  cause  be  irremedi¬ 
able  they  must  still  be  prepared  to  remain  perhaps 
six  months  or  even  longer,  till  suitable  arrange¬ 
ments  can  be  made  for  carrying  on  the  work  by 
others.  Patient  perseverance  is  needed. 


-25- 


SUDAN  INTERIOR  MISSION 


It  should  be  borne  in  mind  that  in  the  case  of 
new  workers  and  of  new  work,  difficulties  and  dis¬ 
couragements  are  to  be  expected.  The  absence  of 
immediate  results  is  no  ground  for  abandoning  a 
work  begun  for  God.  During  the  first  term  of  serv¬ 
ice  missionaries  will  be  gaining  valuable  experience, 
and  should  they  have  to  be  moved  from  one  station 
to  another  or  from  one  duty  to  another,  this  should 
be  accepted  as  an  opportunity  for  obtaining  in¬ 
creased  usefulness  at  a  later  date. 

In  every  case,  except  the  unexpected  occurrence 
of  alarming  illness  requiring  immediate  removal,  at 
least  six  months’  notice  must  be  given  by  members 
before  leaving  their  work.  Should  illness  necessi¬ 
tate  leaving  the  district,  tire  sanction  of  the  District 
Superintendent  should,  when  possible,  be  obtained; 
and  if  needful  to  leave  the  country,  the  sanction  of 
the  Field  Director  or  his  Deputy  must  be  obtained. 

14.  ENGAGEMENT  AND  MARRIAGE 

The  weighty  bearings  of  these  questions  on  mis¬ 
sionary  work  render  special  caution  necessary  on 
the  part  of  all  concerned. 

(a)  Married  Candidates  will  only  be  accepted 
after  careful  consideration  of  the  suitability  of  both 
husband  and  wife. 

(b)  Unmarried  Candidates  who  are  engaged  must 
state  this  fact,  and  will  only  be  accepted  when  the 
cases  of  both  parties  have  been  considered. 

( c )  In  the  interests  of  the  work,  engaged  Candi¬ 
dates  who  desire  to  proceed  to  the  field  unmarried 
are  required  to  defer  marriage  for  at  least  six 
months  after  they  reach  tire  field,  and  there  should 
not  be  more  than  six  months’  interval  between  the 
arrival  of  both  parties  on  the  field. 

(d)  Missionaries  will  be  expected  to  defer  both 
engagement  to  be  married  and  marriage  until  ap¬ 
proved  by  the  Field  Director  or  Home  Director. 
Approval  for  the  marriage  of  couples  engaged  on 
the  field  will  be  deferred  until  at  least  six  months 
have  elapsed  since  engagement. 


-26- 


PRINCIPLES  AND  PRACTICE 


(e)  Accepted  Candidates  and  missionaries,  not 
engaged  to  be  married,  are  earnestly  recommended 
to  be  most  thoughtful  and  prayerful  before  com¬ 
mitting  themselves  to  an  engagement;  as  in  the 
event  of  an  unsuitable  engagement  or  marriage, 
retirement  or  dismissal  from  the  Mission  might  be¬ 
come  necessary. 

(f)  There  is  no  objection  to  approved  engaged 
Candidates  marrying  before  they  proceed  to  the 
field. 

15.  FURLOUGHS 

(a)  The  words  of  Christ,  “Come  ye  yourselves 
apart  into  a  desert  place  and  rest  awhile”  (Mark 
6:30-31),  express  the  solicitude  of  the  Master  for 
the  physical,  spiritual  and  mental  recreation  of  His 
overwrought  disciples;  but  the  fact  that  on  this 
very  occasion,  when  tbe  multitudes  followed  them, 
He  refused  to  heed  the  disciples’  suggestion,  “Send 
the  multitudes  away,”  implies  that  both  the  work 
and  the  workers  must  be  considered,  and  some¬ 
times  it  may  be  in  the  interest  of  souls  that  work 
shall  be  carried  on  by  wearied  workers. 

The  words  of  the  Apostle  Paul  express  not  only 
his  lawful  right,  as  well  as  that  of  every  missionary, 
when  he  said,  “I  only  and  Barnabas,  have  we  not 
a  right  to  forbear  working”  (I  Cor.  9:6,  R.V.);  but 
the  Apostle  expresses  likewise  tire  attitude  of  him¬ 
self  and  those  who  follow  in  his  train  with  Christ 
on  this  and  every  other  lawful  thing  when  he  adds, 
“but  we  bear  all  things  that  we  may  cause  no  hin¬ 
drance  to  the  gospel  of  Christ”  (I  Cor.  9:12,  R.V.). 

(b)  As  a  Faith  Mission,  the  Home  and  Field 
Councils  do  not  obligate  themselves  to  bring  home 
at  any  given  time  those  called  of  God  to  go  to  the 
Field,  but  they  will  cooperate  to  the  best  of  their 
ability  in  making  possible  rest  periods  both  on  the 
Field  and  at  Home. 

(c)  At  the  present  time  under  present  condi¬ 
tions  (1958)  the  terms  of  service  are:  Ethiopia,  5 
years;  other  fields,  4  years. 


-27- 


SUDAN  INTERIOR  MISSION 


In  those  exceptional  cases  where  workers  can 
continue  in  good  health  for  a  longer  term,  it  is 
expedient  that  they  should  renew  their  touch  with 
the  Home  Council  and  constituency  at  least  after 
6  years. 

As  conditions  may  change  on  the  field,  the  Gen¬ 
eral  Council  reserves  the  right  to  modify  the  terms 
of  service  stated  above. 

(d)  The  Field  Director,  with  the  advice  of  the 
Field  Council,  shall  decide  the  priority  of  fur¬ 
loughs,  having  regard  not  only  to  the  health  of  the 
worker,  but  also  to  the  requirements  of  the  work. 
The  Field  Director,  with  the  aid  of  competent 
medical  advice,  shall  have  power  to  act  in  all 
emergency  cases. 

In  view  of  the  cost  to  the  Mission,  missionaries 
are  discouraged  from  taking  children  back  to  the 
field  for  periods  of  one  year  after  furlough.  They 
are  rather  encouraged  to  stay  on  an  extra  year  on 
the  field  in  the  previous  term  in  order  to  gain  the 
worthwhile  end  of  having  this  extra  year  with  their 
child. 

16.  RETIREMENT  AND  DISMISSAL 

(a)  Should  a  member  desire  at  any  time  to 
sever  his  connection  with  the  Mission  he  must,  if 
on  the  field,  give  six  months’  notice,  through  the 
Superintendent  of  his  district  to  the  Field  Director 
or  his  Deputy,  who  will  take  whatever  steps  may 
be  necessary  in  the  case.  If  he  be  at  home  he  must 
give  at  least  one  month’s  notice  to  the  General 
Director,  or  the  Home  Director  for  the  country 
from  which  he  was  sent  out,  who  will  likewise  take 
such  action  as  may  be  needful. 

( b )  In  all  cases  where  the  Directors  are  satisfied 
that  retirement  is  necessary  from  failure  of  health 
or  other  adequate  cause,  they  will  not  expect  any 
refund.  In  other  cases,  anyone  leaving  the  Mission 
before  the  end  of  the  second  year  of  residence  on 
the  field  will  be  expected,  as  soon  as  able,  to  refund 
in  full  any  sums  expended  by  the  Mission  towards 
his  or  her  outfit  or  passage  money. 


-28- 


PRINCIPLES  AND  PRACTICE 


(c)  In  the  event  of  a  missionary  on  the  field 
intending  when  on  furlough  to  retire  from  the  Mis¬ 
sion  for  any  reason  he  must  inform  the  Field  Direc¬ 
tor  of  such  intention  before  leaving  the  field.  Should 
the  decision  to  retire  be  reached  at  home,  it  must 
be  intimated  without  delay  to  the  Home  Director 
for  the  country  from  which  the  missionary  went 
out.  The  latter  will  take  steps  to  arrange  the  date 
for  the  termination  of  the  furlough,  since  the  ob¬ 
ject  of  furlough  is  to  restore  the  health  of  the 
worker  with  a  view  to  his  resuming  service  on  the 
field  with  the  Mission.  No  actual  refund,  however, 
will  be  required  for  support  received  during  the 
period  of  the  furlough  already  expired,  except  in 
cases  where  the  furlough  has  been  extended  be¬ 
yond  the  term  granted  by  the  Field  authorities, 
when  a  refund  of  the  amount  received  for  support 
during  such  extension  will  be  expected. 

(d)  In  the  case  of  missionaries  returning  to  the 
field  from  furlough  and  retiring  within  two  years 
from  the  date  of  arrival  on  the  field,  a  refund  of 
the  passage  and  outfit  money  expended  by  the 
Mission  will  be  required  as  follows:  within  one 
year,  the  whole  of  such  passage  and  outfit  money; 
after  one  year,  but  within  two  years,  half  of  the 
same. 

( e )  Should  an  occasion  of  sufficient  gravity  arise, 
such  as  immorality  or  any  other  grossly  improper 
conduct,  the  Field  Director  in  consultation  with  the 
Deputy  Field  Director  or  Field  Secretary  and  other 
field  council  members  available,  has  the  power  of 
summarily  terminating  the  services  of  any  worker 
with  the  field  department,  in  which  case  he  would 
act  with  all  possible  consideration. 

(f)  Having  dismissed  the  person  from  the  field 
service  it  is  then  the  responsibility  of  the  Home 
Council  concerned  to  determine  whether  the  per¬ 
son  will  be  dismissed  from  the  Mission  or  retired. 
In  the  case  of  dismissal  three  months’  notice  will 
be  given.  In  the  case  of  retirement,  the  Home 


-29- 


SUDAN  INTERIOR  MISSION 


Council  will  decide  as  to  the  issue  of  any  retire¬ 
ment  allowance,  either  in  whole  or  in  part. 

( g )  Anyone  leaving  the  Mission  must  hand  over 
all  Mission  account  books,  monies  or  properties  in 
his  charge  into  the  hands  of  the  person  appointed 
to  receive  them. 

17.  MISSION  PREMISES 

The  Directors  of  the  Mission  cannot  be  responsi¬ 
ble  for  any  expenditure  not  authorized  by  them, 
nor  for  any  outlay  of  personal  funds  on  Mission 
property. 

For  the  effective  carrying  on  of  localized  mis¬ 
sionary  work,  Mission  premises  are  of  course  re¬ 
quired,  and  land  for  this  purpose  is  usually  ob¬ 
tained  from  the  Government  by  deed  of  rental, 
suitable  buildings  being  erected  thereon  by  the 
Mission.  It  may  in  some  cases  be  needful  to  pur¬ 
chase  sites  and/or  premises.  The  money  required 
for  such  purposes  is  ordinarily  supplied  from  the 
general  or  special  funds  of  the  Mission,  as  circum¬ 
stances  require  and  the  funds  admit.  Subject  to  the 
next  paragraph,  missionaries  may,  if  they  so  wish, 
use  their  own  monies,  or  contributions  from  their 
friends,  for  securing,  improving,  or  building  prem¬ 
ises,  on  the  understanding  that  all  such  premises, 
however  secured  or  improved,  are  to  be  held  as 
Mission  property;  the  Mission  and  not  the  indi¬ 
vidual  missionary,  being  considered  the  tenant, 
mortgagee,  or  owner,  as  the  case  may  be;  and  the 
funds  so  used  being  regarded  as  donations. 

Missionaries  who  thus  improve  properties  with 
their  own  monies  do  not  thereby  secure  an  implied 
right  to  remain  at  the  station,  if  the  needs  of  the 
work  require  them  to  serve  elsewhere. 

No  missionary  of  the  Sudan  Interior  Mission  may 
purchase  or  own,  as  private  property,  lands  or 
houses  on  the  field. 

Where  new  premises  are  to  be  erected,  or  ex¬ 
tensive  alterations,  involving  change  in  external 
appearance,  are  to  be  made  in  those  already  exist- 


-30- 


PRINCIPLES  AND  PRACTICE 


ing,  whether  with  private  or  Mission  funds,  the 
plans  and  character  of  the  proposed  building  or 
alterations  are  first  to  be  submitted,  through  the 
District  Superintendent,  to  the  Field  Director  or 
his  Deputy  for  the  approval  of  the  Building  Com¬ 
mittee,  before  the  work  is  commenced. 

18.  CHURCH  GOVERNMENT 

Converts  are  taught  to  study  the  Word  of  God 
and  encouraged  to  carry  the  administration  respon¬ 
sibilities  of  the  church  from  the  beginning. 

In  1954  the  Association  of  Evangelical  Churches 
of  West  Africa  in  fellowship  with  the  Sudan  In-' 
terior  Mission  in  West  Africa  adopted  a  form  of 
church  government,  as  set  out  in  the  Appendix  A 
to  these  “Principles  and  Practice.”  Similarly  in  East 
Africa  in  1956,  the  Fellowship  of  Evangelical  Be¬ 
lievers  was  formed  and  subscribed  to  by  the  local 
Evangelical  Churches  of  the  different  tribal  areas 
that  had  come  into  being  through  the  ministry  of 
the  Sudan  Interior  Mission.  The  constitutions  of 
the  various  tribal  churches  in  East  Africa  vary 
slightly  in  minor  particulars,  but  conform  in  prin¬ 
ciple  to  that  referred  to  as  Appendix  A. 

While  a  missionary  appointed  to  a  new  area 
would  be  at  liberty  to  adopt  that  form  of  church 
government  which  he  believes  to  be  most  Scriptural, 
it  is  the  desire  of  the  General  Council  that  he  will 
not  in  any  wise  hinder  any  church,  as  it  develops 
and  should  it  so  desire,  from  being  linked  in  fel¬ 
lowship  with  the  other  African  churches  as  set  out 
in  the  Appendix. 

A  church  having  been  organized,  its  form  of 
church  government  already  instituted  may  not  be 
changed  by  a  succeeding  missionary  appointed  to 
the  station. 

19.  RELATION  TO  GOVERNMENTS 

Too  great  caution  cannot  be  exercised  by  all 
missionaries  residing  or  journeying  in  the  Mission’s 
fields  to  avoid  difficulties  and  complications  with 
the  people,  and  especially  with  the  authorities. 


-31  - 


SUDAN  INTERIOR  MISSION 


Every  member  of  the  Mission  must  fully  under¬ 
stand  that  he  goes  out  depending  for  help  and 
protection  on  the  living  God  and  not  relying  on 
an  arm  of  flesh. 

While  availing  himself  of  any  privileges  offered 
by  his  own  government  or  that  under  which  he 
works,  he  must  make  no  demands  for  help  or  pro¬ 
tection,  though  in  emergencies  he  may  need  to  ask 
for  it  as  a  favor.  Appeals  to  Governors,  Residents 
or  to  African  officials  to  procure  punishment  of 
offenders,  or  to  demand  the  vindication  of  real  or 
supposed  rights,  or  indemnification  for  losses,  are 
'to  be  avoided.  Should  trouble  or  persecution  arise, 
a  friendly  representation  may  be  made  to  the  local 
officials,  and  those  suffering  must  be  satisfied  to 
leave  their  case  in  God’s  hands.  Under  no  circum¬ 
stances  may  any  missionary  on  his  own  responsi¬ 
bility  make  any  written  appeal  to  the  governing 
authority.  Should  such  an  appeal  be  thought  neces¬ 
sary,  it  must  first  be  submitted  to  the  General  Di¬ 
rector  or  his  Deputy,  or  the  Field  Director  through 
the  Superintendent,  and  receive  his  authorization. 

Great  respect  must  be  shown  to  all  in  authority, 
and  must  also  be  manifested  in  speaking  of  them, 
as  is  required  by  the  Word  of  God.  Great  care 
should  be  taken  not  to  speak  of  the  Mission’s  pri¬ 
vate  affairs  or  to  criticize  a  fellow  missionary  or 
other  missionary  societies.  “The  weapons  of  our 
warfare”  must  be  practically  recognized  as  spiritual 
and  not  carnal. 

20.  THE  ENDORSEMENT  OF 

PRINCIPLES  AND  PRACTICE’ 

(a)  Candidates  will  be  required  to  sign  the  fol¬ 
lowing  statement: 

“Having  carefully  and  prayerfully  read  the  ‘Prin¬ 
ciples  and  Practice  of  the  Sudan  Interior  Mission’ 
(1958)  I  approve  of  all  that  is  contained  in  the 
various  articles  and  desire,  if  accepted,  to  serve  in 
accordance  with  them.  I  therefore  offer  myself  as 
a  candidate  to  the  Mission.” 


-32- 


PRINCIPLES  AND  PRACTICE 


(b)  Missionaries  returning  after  furlough  will 
be  required  to  sign  the  following  statement: 

“In  returning  to  the  field  for  a  further  period  of 
service,  I  agree  to  abide  by  the  ‘Principles  and 
Practice  of  the  Sudan  Interior  Mission’  as  laid  down 
in  the  Edition  dated  1958.” 

21.  THE  S.I.M.  HANDBOOK 
(Revised  1958) 

(a)  Details  of  policy  and  administration  of  the 
Mission  are  found  in  this  booklet  —  commonly 
known  as  “Principles  and  Practice”  or  “P.  and  P.”  — 
and  it  should  always  be  kept  handy  for  reference. 

(b)  In  the  “S.I.M.  Handbook”  will  be  found 
further  vital  information  regarding  the  operation  of 
the  Mission  at  home  and  on  the  field.  The  book 
calls  for  careful  study.  Difficulties  and  misunder¬ 
standings  can  often  be  avoided,  and  questions  an¬ 
swered,  by  frequent  reference  to  it. 

(c)  The  Handbook  is  written  in  conversational 
style,  as  addressed  to  a  missionary-under-appoint- 
ment;  but  it  is  intended  as  a  guide  for  all  members 
of  the  Mission.  For  the  most  part,  where  amounts 
of  money  are  mentioned  they  apply  to  missionaries 
from  the  North  American  Continent.  The  corres¬ 
ponding  sums  for  those  from  other  countries  when 
at  home,  where  cost  of  living  and  free  social  serv¬ 
ices  vary,  are  adjusted  by  the  various  Home  Coun¬ 
cils  so  as  to  provide  equality  of  treatment  as  far  as 
is  practicable. 

(d)  This  Handbook  is  strictly  confidential  and 
must  not  be  circulated  outside  of  the  S.I.M.  fam¬ 
ily.  If  a  member  leaves  the  S.I.M.,  the  Handbook 
should  be  returned  promptly  to  the  nearest  S.I.M. 
office. 

22.  DEFINITIONS 

(a)  Throughout  this  booklet  where  the  candi¬ 
date  or  missionary  is  described  as  “he,”  the 


-33- 


SUDAN  INTERIOR  MISSION 


remarks  apply  equally  to  women  candidates  or 
missionaries. 

(b)  The  Memorandum  of  Agreement  provides 
for  the  retirement  of  all  the  officers  of  the  Mission 
at  home  and  in  the  Field  at  the  age  of  65  years. 
For  the  purposes  of  this  Section  an  “officer”  is  one 
who  is  elected  to  executive  office.  At  the  present 
time  (1958)  these  are:  General  Director,  Associate 
General  Director,  Home  and  Field  Directors,  their 
Deputies,  Field  Superintendents,  Home  and  Field 
Secretaries,  District  Superintendents. 

General  Council  and  Home  Council  members,  as 
such,  are  not  liable  to  retire  at  the  age  of  65  years. 


-34- 


PRINCIPLES  AND  PRACTICE 


APPENDIX  A 

CONSTITUTION  OF  “THE  ASSOCIATION 
OF  EVANGELICAL  CHURCHES 
OF  WEST  AFRICA” 

Introduction 

The  Evangelical  Churches  of  West  Africa  are 
in  varying  stages  of  development.  The  indigenous 
church  is  the  aim,  and  in  due  course,  with  further 
development  and  changes  in  circumstances,  the 
withdrawal  of  the  missionary  element  from  the 
various  councils  and  from  the  General  Church  As¬ 
sembly  hereafter  mentioned  may  be  found  possible. 
Further,  the  centralization  of  much  authority  now 
being  vested  in  the  District  Church  Council  may 
be  found  unnecessary,  being  replaced  by  authority 
issuing  from  the  local  churches.  In  that  event,  the 
District  Church  Council  would  remain  in  an  ad¬ 
visory  capacity,  and  the  necessary  amendments 
would  be  made  to  this  Constitution  in  accordance 
with  the  provisions  contained  in  Article  IX. 

ARTICLE  I  Articles  of  Faith 

The  articles  of  faith  and  practice  of  the  Church 
are: 

(a)  The  Divine  authority  and  plenary  inspiration 
of  the  whole  canonical  Scriptures  as  originally 
given.  II  Tim.  3:16,  17;  II  Peter  1:21. 

(b)  The  doctrine  of  the  Trinity.  II  Cor.  13:14; 
Matt.  28:19. 

(c)  The  fall  of  man  and  his  consequent  total  moral 
depravity  and  need  of  regeneration.  Rom.  3:10; 
5:12. 

(d)  The  atonement  through  the  substitutionary 
death  of  Christ,  His  resurrection  and  ascension. 
Mark  10:45;  I  Peter  3:18;  Luke  24:6,  51. 

(e)  The  Doctrine  of  justification  by  faith.  Rom. 
3:24-26;  Acts  13:39. 

(f)  Regeneration  by  the  Holy  Spirit.  I  Pet.  1:23- 
25;  James  1:18;  John  1:12,  13;  John  3:6. 


-35- 


SUDAN  INTERIOR  MISSION 


(g)  The  doctrine  of  sanctification.  Heb.  12:14;  I 
Pet.  1:2;  John  17:17. 

(h)  The  second  coming  of  Christ  and  the  resurrec¬ 
tion  of  the  dead.  I  Thess.  4:16-17;  Acts  24:15. 

(i)  The  eternal  blessedness  of  the  saved  and  the 
everlasting  punishment  of  the  lost.  Matt.  25:46. 

(j)  The  separation  of  Christians  from  the  world 
and  the  things  of  the  world.  I  John  2:15-17; 
II  Cor.  6:14-18. 

(k)  The  Doctrine  of  Missions.  It  is  incumbent  upon 
every  believer  to  do  his  utmost  to  win  the  lost. 
Matt.  28:19-20;  Mark  16:15;  Luke  24:47;  John 
20:21;  Acts  1:8;  I  Peter  2:9. 

ARTICLE  II  Membership  of  the  Church 

A.  A  church  member  is  one  who,  after  public 
confession  of  faith  in  Jesus  Christ,  a  period 
of  instruction  and  baptism,  has  been  welcomed 
into  the  Church  fellowship. 

B.  Such  person  shall  be  required  to  subscribe  to 
the  “Articles  of  Faith”  and  the  Constitution  of 
the  Church.  Before  being  welcomed  into  the 
Church  fellowship,  he  shall  be  examined  by 
the  Local  Church  Board  upon  the  matters  and 
principles  prescribed  by  the  responsible  Dis¬ 
trict  Church  Council. 

C.  The  marriage  of  members  shall  be  in  accord¬ 
ance  with  the  requirements  laid  down  by  the 
responsible  District  Church  Council. 

D.  Members  of  the  Local  Church  shall  be  subject 
to  discipline.  Membership  may  be  terminated 
by  removal  from  the  church  roll.  A  member  in 
good  standing  may  also  obtain  a  transfer.  All 
of  these  matters  shall  be  governed  by  rules 
laid  down  by  the  responsible  District  Church 
Council. 

ARTICLE  III  The  Local  Church 

A.  The  Local  Church  is  a  body  of  at  least  seven 
baptized  believers  in  any  locality,  who  desire 


-36- 


PRINCIPLES  AND  PRACTICE 


to  be  organized  for  the  purpose  of  public  wor¬ 
ship,  for  the  glorifying  and  praising  of  God, 
for  the  edifying  of  one  another  and  the  carry¬ 
ing  out  of  the  great  commission  of  evangelism. 
It  shall  subscribe  to  such  covenant  as  may  be 
laid  down  by  the  responsible  District  Church 
Council  and  shall  elect  a  minimum  of  three 
elders. 

B.  The  Elders  of  such  local  church  with  their 
pastor  and  the  local  overseer  shall  constitute 
the  Local  Church  Board.  This  Board  shall  exer¬ 
cise  leadership  of  the  said  local  church  and 
authority  over  all  its  employees.  The  District 
Church  Council  shall  have  the  right  of  review 
in  any  case  where  the  authority  of  the  Local 
Church  Board  is  deemed  to  have  been  im¬ 
properly  exercised. 

C.  The  Local  Overseer  is  that  person  who  is  re¬ 
sponsible  to  and  recognized  by  the  Sudan  In¬ 
terior  Mission  as  being  in  charge  of  an  area 
containing  one  or  more  local  churches. 

ARTICLE  IV  Officers  of  the  Church 

The  officers  of  the  Local  Church  shall  be  pastors 

and  elders. 

A.  Pastors 

There  shall  be  three  categories  of  pastors, 
namely,  unlicensed,  licensed  and  ordained.  The 
actual  designation,  qualifications,  duties  and 
calling  of  each  kind  of  pastor  shall  be  governed 
by  the  regulations  laid  down  by  the  responsible 
District  Church  Council. 

The  licensing  and  ordination  of  pastors  shall 
be  done  publicly  before  the  Church  after  due 
examination  as  to  fitness  by  the  responsible 
District  Church  Council.  Only  ordained  pastors 
may  use  the  title  “Reverend.” 

In  the  case  of  known  evil  living,  the  teaching 
of  heresy,  or  failure  to  fulfil  his  duty,  a  pastor 
of  any  kind  can  be  suspended  by  the  responsi¬ 
ble  Local  Church  Council  until  the  case  has 


-37- 


SUDAN  INTERIOR  MISSION 


been  considered  by  the  responsible  District 
Church  Council  which  shall  have  the  power 
to  withdraw  the  authority  of  any  pastor. 

B.  Elders 

Elders  are  representative  officers  set  apart  to 
join  with  the  pastor  in  the  spiritual  oversight 
and  control  of  the  local  church.  Their  qualifica¬ 
tions,  manner  of  election,  authority  and  duties 
shall  he  as  prescribed  by  the  responsible  Dis¬ 
trict  Church  Council. 

ARTICLE  V  Councils  of  the  Church 

The  Councils  of  the  Church  shall  be  Local  and 
District. 

A.  Local  Church  Council 

This  shall  be  formed  as  soon  as  there  is  one  or 
more  properly  constituted  local  churches  in  a 
restricted  area.  Its  members  shall  be  the  local 
Overseer  or  local  overseers  and  where  possible 
an  equal  number  of  pastors  and  elders,  the 
elder  to  go  to  this  council  being  chosen  by 
ballot  of  the  members  of  the  local  church. 
Two-thirds  of  the  total  number  of  the  mem¬ 
bers  of  such  Council  shall  constitute  a  quorum. 
While  there  is  only  one  local  church  in  an  area 
the  Local  Church  Board  is  the  Local  Church 
Council. 

The  frequency  of  meetings  and  election  of 
officers  shall  be  determined  by  each  Local 
Church  Council  and  in  case  of  disagreement 
by  the  responsible  District  Church  Council. 
The  term  of  service  of  the  members  and  the 
powers  and  duties  of  such  Council  shall  be  as 
laid  down  by  the  responsible  District  Church 
Council. 

B.  The  District  Church  Council 

A  District  Church  Council  shall  be  formed  as 
soon  as  there  is  more  than  one  properly  consti¬ 
tuted  Local  Church  Council  in  a  district.  The 
districts  existing  in  Nigeria  at  the  inauguration 


-38- 


PRINCIPLES  AND  PRACTICE 


of  this  constitution  are  seven  in  number.  Fur¬ 
ther  districts  may  be  admitted  from  time  to 
time  upon  two-thirds  majority  vote  of  the 
members  present  at  any  meeting  of  the  Gen¬ 
eral  Church  Assembly.  The  members  of  the 
District  Church  Council  shall  be  the  District 
Superintendent  of  the  Sudan  Interior  Mission, 
the  Local  Overseer,  Pastor  and  one  Elder  from 
each  Local  Church  Council.  The  Pastor  and  the 
Elder  who  will  represent  each  Local  Church 
Council  shall  be  chosen  by  a  majority  vote  of 
that  Council.  The  General  Director  and  the 
Field  Director  of  the  Sudan  Interior  Mission 
shall  be  ex-officio  members  of  the  District 
Church  Council. 

The  terms  of  service  of  members,  the  fre¬ 
quency  of  meetings  and  election  of  officers 
shall  be  determined  by  each  District  Church 
Council.  Two-thirds  of  the  total  number  of  the 
members  of  such  Council  shall  constitute  a 
quorum.  This  Council  shall  submit  to  the 
General  Church  Assembly  the  name  of  their 
representative  for  appointment  to  the  Board  of 
Trustees  hereinafter  mentioned  and  it  shall  be 
responsible  for  the  general  oversight  of  the 
Churches  in  its  district  and  shall  also  act  in 
an  advisory  and  judicial  capacity  as  necessary, 
subject  to  the  unalterable  “Articles  of  Faith” 
and  as  provided  by  this  Constitution.  No  deci¬ 
sions  or  regulations  shall  be  made  by  any  Dis¬ 
trict  Church  Council  which  affect  other  dis¬ 
tricts,  other  missions,  or  the  civil  government. 

ARTICLE  VI  General  Church  Assembly 

This  Assembly  shall  be  an  advisory  body  of 
the  Church  and  shall  be  composed  of  repre¬ 
sentatives  of  the  District  Church  Councils.  The 
General  Director,  the  Field  Director  and  the 
District  Superintendents  from  the  Sudan  In¬ 
terior  Mission  are  ex-officio  members  of  the 
General  Church  Assembly.  Each  District 


-39- 


SUDAN  INTERIOR  MISSION 


Church  Council  shall  elect  and  send  to  the 
General  Church  Assembly  one  delegate  from 
its  District  for  every  500  church  members  or 
fraction  thereof  in  the  district.  Such  delegate 
may  or  may  not  be  a  member  of  that  District 
Church  Council.  Each  district  shall  be  entitled 
to  a  minimum  of  two  delegates,  not  more  than 
one-half  of  each  delegation  shall  be  changed 
in  any  one  year.  Two-thirds  of  the  total  num¬ 
ber  of  the  members  of  such  Assembly  shall 
constitute  a  quorum. 

The  General  Church  Assembly  shall  meet  at 
least  annually  at  a  time  and  place  to  be  de¬ 
cided  by  the  Assembly.  The  Officers  of  the 
General  Church  Assembly  shall  be  a  President, 
a  Vice-President,  a  Secretary  and  a  Treasurer. 
Each  officer  shall  be  elected  separately  by 
secret  ballot  at  the  annual  meeting,  shall  as¬ 
sume  office  immediately  following  that  annual 
meeting,  and  serve  through  the  next  annual 
meeting.  The  nominations  shall  be  from  the 
floor. 

A  special  meeting  of  the  General  Church 
Assembly  shall  be  called  by  the  President  on 
the  written  request  of  at  least  three  District 
Church  Councils. 

The  business  of  the  General  Church  Assembly 
shall  be  such  as  is  of  general  interest  to  the 
churches  and  particular  matters  referred  to  it 
through  the  District  Church  Councils.  Its  de¬ 
cisions  as  they  affect  the  churches  shall  be 
advisory  to  the  District  Church  Councils.  It 
shall  seek  to  present  a  united  front  to  outside 
bodies. 

The  General  Church  Assembly  shall  have  the 
power  to  appoint  the  trustees  as  required  un¬ 
der  the  Land  (Perpetual  Succession)  ordinance 
(Chapter  107),  to  remove  any  of  such  trustees 
upon  a  simple  majority  vote  of  the  members 
present  at  any  meeting  of  the  General  Church 
Assembly,  and  to  fill  any  vacancies  occurring 
in  the  number  of  such  trustees  from  time  to 


-40- 


PRINCIPLES  AND  PRACTICE 


time.  In  the  consideration  of  any  such  appoint¬ 
ment,  removal  or  the  filling  of  any  such  va¬ 
cancy  any  recommendation  of  the  District 
Church  Council  concerned  shall  always  be 
followed. 

ARTICLE  VII  Ordinances 

The  ordinances  of  the  Church  shall  be  baptism 
and  the  Lord’s  Supper  administered  by  the 
outward  signs  as  commanded  by  Christ  and  in 
accordance  with  the  requirements  laid  down 
by  the  responsible  District  Church  Council. 

ARTICLE  VIII  Finances 

The  local  recording  and  safe-keeping  of  church 
finances  shall  be  in  accordance  with  the  regu¬ 
lations  laid  down  by  the  responsible  District 
Church  Council. 

The  collection,  disposal  and  expenditures  of 
local  church  finances  shall  be  in  accordance 
with  the  decision  of  the  Local  Church  Board. 
Each  Local  Church  Council  shall  contribute 
to  the  funds  of  the  District  Church  Council 
such  sum  or  sums  as  shall  be  required  by  that 
District  Church  Council  for  District  Church 
Council  purposes. 

Each  District  Church  Council  shall  contribute 
to  the  funds  of  the  General  Church  Assembly 
such  sum  or  sums  as  that  Assembly  shall  ad¬ 
vise  according  to  the  number  of  church  mem¬ 
bers  in  that  District. 

ARTICLE  IX  Amendments  to  the 
Constitution 

Any  amendment  to  the  Constitution,  except  to 
the  “Articles  of  Faith”  (which  shall  be  unalter¬ 
able)  must  first  be  placed  before  the  General 
Church  Assembly  for  their  consideration  and 
advice,  and  if  such  amendment  be  recom¬ 
mended  and  advised  by  such  Assembly,  it 
must  then  be  submitted  to  and  ratified  by  all 
the  District  Church  Councils. 


-41- 


•- 


To  be  signed  by  each  MISSIONARY,  and  returned  to  your  nearest  Secretary 


CANDIDATES,  Please  Sign,  Detach  and  Return  with  Other  Papers 


v* »'NT*o 

IN 

u.  s.*- 


OLD  NEWS  PRINTERY 
HOLLAND,  MICHIGAN 


