^; 




/ 



V ,^i^/*-^^> 



if 



?^t 



u^" ~^.. 



> 



\ 



jf 



1. i'/ ^ ^ 



>« 



*. ■! 



'S': 



^'h^'^^_j- 



';^ 



■■■%"'■ 



^^ 







^ 









'^€^^0 






i 



/C 











Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tliis bool< is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924029225773 



Dec. 31, 1883. 



Price, 25 Cents. 



No. 105. 




(bopEP. 






-m 



THE LIFE 



^n 




By JEAN GROB. 

"Wevv- York: 

FUNK & WAGlSrALLS, 
lO and 12 Dey Street. 



BA<1pm • 
JPENcSer 




TssBed 

Fortnightly. 



Copyright, 1883, by Funk & Wagnallb. 
Entered m New York FoBt-Offlce da secoDd<otes8 mail matter. 



Sabseiiptloa price, 
per ye»r, f 5. 



Standard Library for 1884 



NEW AND ATTEACTITE FEATURES. 

We take pleasure in announcing the following as the Prospectus 
for the Standard lAWary for 1884. The general plan will be the 
same as last year, but,, the experience we have gained and the better 
facilities we possess wiU enable us to make it superior in all 
respects. We can promise a 

RICH TREAT IN STORE FOR ALL. 

There will be included, as last year, Twenti/six New Books, not 
one of which has ever before been published in this country. They 
will be bound in the same tasty binding as last year, and printed on 
the same excellent quality of paper. 

Biography, Travel, and Popular Science will be represented by 
the ablest pens, and all works of a mere controversial character will 
be rigidly excluded. 

In addition, we- have added 

A NEW FEATURE, 

in response to many solicitations. This is the introduction of clean, 
brijght, and ■wholejsome fiction of the highest Uterary mefrU, and wholly 
free from anything to corrupt the morals or pervert the taste. One 
third of the Library will consist of works of fiction by such famous 
writers as 

Edward Everett Hale, Julian Hawthorne, 
Joaquin Miller, George Parsons Lathrop, 

Ivan Turgenieff, etc., etc. 

Among the other works which we can announce in advance are 
"The Story of Merv," by Edmond O'Donovan ; a new and timely 
volume, by Pr, J. P. Newman, of New York ; a collection of the 
most striking writings from the works of the great, German Philos- 
opher and Wit, Jean Pqul Eichter (a most inspiring work); an 
abridgment of one of the most fascinating works of travel, by Sir / 
Bamiiel Baker (Baker Pacha), etc., etc. 

Subscriptions for the entire series of twenty-six new books will 
be at the same remarkably low price as last year— namely. Five ^ 
Dollars ; unfil Jatiuury 10th, Four Dollars. 



THE LIFE 



OF 



ULRIC ZWINGLI. 



TRANSLATED PKOM THB GERMAN 



JE^]Sr GROB 



NEW YORK: 

PUlSrK & WAGNALLS, Publishers, 

10 AND 13 Dby Street. 

1883. 



Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 188S, by 

FUNK & WAQNALLS, 

In tbe Office of the Librarian of Congrees at Wasblngton, D. C. 



PREFACE. 



The present is hoiiored in appreciating the past. But 
the records of bygone days are largely made up of the 
deeds of individuals whose true greatness is estimated by 
the beneficence of their acts. If worthy, they should be 
held in everlasting remembrance. Such is the righteous 
treatment bestowed by every generation deserving of the 
inheritance of heroic ancestors. 

Well-nigh the entire civilized world recently honored 
the memory of one of the moral heroes of the race. 
The four hundredth anniversary of the birth of another 
is at hand. 

Ulric Zwingli, the Reformer of Switzerland, merits 
the gratitude of every lover of civil and religious liberty. 
For the highest welfare of his Fatherland on earth and 
for his best interests in his Fatherland in Heaven, he 
lived and died a true patriot and a sincere Christian. 

It is the design of this volume to present a reliable 
record of the man, in Church and State, without enter- 
ing into the details of political questions or theological 
problems. 

Owing to the shortness of time for publication, the 
work of translation was divided between the Revs. I. K. 



IV PEEFACE. 

Loos and G. F. Behringer. To the latter was assigned 
the task of editing the whole. 

In justice to the author, the Eev. J. Grob, it is due to 
state that portions of the original of a doctrinal and con- 
troversial nature were omitted in the translation, be- 
cause of the undenominational character of the " Stand- 
ard Library," of which this volume forms a part. 

G. F. B. 
Bbookltn, Deo. 25th, 1883. 



0ONTE]5?"TS. 



FAQS 

CHAPTER I. 

Ulbic Zwingli's Fatherland 7 

CHAPTER il. 
ZwnfGLi's Parentage and Home 18 

CHAPTER III. 
ZwiNGLi's Boyhood— His First Fifteen Years, . . 38 

CHAPTER IV. 

ZWINGM AT THE UNIVERSITIES OF VIENNA AND BASEL, . 30 

CHAPTER V. 
From Basel to Glarus, 35 

CHAPTER VI. 
From Glarus to Einsiedeln, 43 

CHAPTER VII. 

ZwiNGLi'e Connection with Rome — Sad Results, . . 53 

CHAPTER VIII. 
Other Preparatory Circumstances, .... 61 

CHAPTER IX. 
Quiet Beginnings, 67 

CHAPTER X. 
From Einsiedeln to Zurich, 73 

CHAPTER XI. 
Great Reputation in Switzerland and Abroad, . . 79 



Vi CONTENTS. 

PAais 

CHAPTER XII. 

Dangbbous Illness, 88 

CHAPTER XIII. 
Two Hostile Schemes, 91 

CHAPTER XIV. 
First Peuits of his Labob, 96 

CHAPTER XV. 
Great Discussions at Zurich amd thbib Consequences, 101 

CHAPTER XVI. 

ZwiNGLi's Standpoint over against Lutheb, . . 135 

CHAPTER XVII. 
Attempts at Muedbb, 139 

CHAPTER XVIII. 
The Maebueg Confeeence, 147 

CHAPTER XIX. 
The Fiest War of Kappbl, 155 

CHAPTER XX. 
ZwiNGLi AT Home 1G3 

CHAPTER XXI. 
ZwiNGLi's TEACHHsras AND Weitings, 169 

CHAPTER XXII. 
ZwiNGLi's Death at Kappel, 174 

Chronological Table 196 

Index, 197 



THE LIFE OF ULRIC ZWOGLl. 



CHAPTER I. 

ULEIO ZWINGLl's FATHEELAND. 

The outline of Europe may be compared to that of a 
maiden in a sitting posture. Beautiful Switzerland 
forms the heart of this maiden. It is the native country 
of the man of whom this volume will relate great, won- 
derful, and truly divine things. 

From the remotest times of its history, Switzerland 
seems to have been inhabited. In primitive ages, how- 
ever, the people chiefly occupied the highlands, the low- 
lands consisting of swamps and forests. But the names 
of the tribes which first selected Switzerland as a per- 
manent place of abode are not known. Six centuries 
before the birth of Christ, Ehsetius, prince of an 
Etruscan race which had occupied Italy as far as the 
Alps, fleeing with many of his nobles and warriors be- 
fore the wild and brave Gauls — 'who dwelt beyond 
Mount Jura and Lake Geneva, and who had overrun 
upper Italy and conquered the Etruscans in bloody battles 
— came from Italy across the Alps. He found a peace- 
ful reception, and from this time forward the inhabitants, 
out of respect to him, called themselves Shmtians, and 
the country Hhaetia. The primitive inhabitants whom 
he met placed no obstacles in his way, but gradually 



8 THE LIFE OF TTLRIC ZWISTGLI. 

adopted the customs and language of these fugitives. 
Thus the Khsetians gradually grew to a numerous and 
warlike people, and spread themselves victoriously in all 
directions. Their boundaries extended, on the north side 
of the Alps, from the sources of the Khine to Lakes 
W alien and Constance, and far into the modem Tyrol ; 
on the south to Lake Como and the river Adige. 

The Ehaetians, moreover, were divided into numerous 
small tribes, which for the common defence of their 
country formed themselves into a confederacy. The 
leaders of the united people dwelt in castles erected on 
almost inaccessible rocks. The Ehagtians were no 
strangers to agriculture. The sunny soil was well adapted 
to it, while the green mountain sides invited to grazing. 
Yine culture also received attention. The Emperor 
Augustus, who in a later age conquered the Ehsetians, 
was a lover of Ehsetian wine. 

Their nearest neighbors on the west were the Helve- 
tians, of the same lineage as the Gauls, who dwelt be- 
yond the Jura Mountains and Lake Geneva. The 
Helvetians occupied twelve cities and four hundred vil- 
lages, and numbered about two hundred and sixty -three 
thousand souls. They submitted about the year 58 e.g. 
to the Romans, by whom vineyards were planted, roads 
laid out, and Koman customs, culture, and language in- 
troduced. Forty-two years later the Ehsetians also sub- 
mitted to the Emperor Augustus, and remained under 
the Eoman government five hundred years, until 476 
A.D., when the last Roman emperor was dethroned and 
part of Helvetia fell into the hands of the still savage 
Alemanni, and part into the hands of the Burgundians, 
who had already been converted to Christianity. The 
name of the Hel/oetians was extinguished. They had 
been slain by the sword or reduced to servitude, and 



ULKIC ZWIKGLl'S JATHERLAKD. 9 

their formerly flourishing cities, Wifflisburg, Windisch, 
Angst, and very many others, fell into ruin and decay. 
Thus nations disappear. New generations dwell upon 
their graves. Joyfully the fanner drives his plough 
over the relics of a former age, and here and there strikes 
against remarkable monuments of it, as at Knonau, 
Maschwanden, Mettmenstetten, Affoltern, and Windisch. 

But from the ruins of the disappearing ancient world, 
the Christian Church shines triumphantly upon us as the 
preserver and propagator of the doctrine of the Crucified 
Saviour. Upon it and by it the modern world was 
founded. In very early times the Gospel came to 
Khsetia. The first herald of the Faith was St. Lucius. 
Other missionaries followed him, among whom was St. 
Gaudentius. 

In Helvetia too, as early as the time of the Roman 
supremacy, Christianity was proclaimed. One of the 
first missionaries there was St. Beatus, who, after having 
preached the Gospel in various places, retired to a cave 
near Lake Thun, which still continues to bear his name. 
Ursus and Yictor brought the Gospel to Solothurn, 
Felix and Eegula to Zurich, and still others to other 
places. In Geneva, Martigny in Wallis (VaUais), Aven- 
ticum, Eaurika, and Windisch, bishoprics were estab- 
lished, which were afterward removed to Sitten, 
Lausanne, Basel, and Constance. The terrible inroads of 
the heathen Alemanni, who devastated the country and 
destroyed the inhabitants, ruined most of these Christian 
congregations. The Burgundians and these Alemanni 
furnished a new population to Helvetia. 

Then new missionaries arrived from neighboring 
France and distant England and Ireland. Thus St. 
Germanus came into the valleys of the Jura, through 
which flows the Birse ; St. Immerius camie into a valley 



10 THE LIFE OF ULRIC ZWINGLI. 

at the foot of Mount Ohasseral, watered by the Keuss ; 
Eomanus and Lupizimis came into the wilds of Jura, not 
far from Orbe ; and where these pious men lived and 
labored arose cloisters and villages — Miinster, St. Inier, 
Eomammotiers. Distinguished above all is St. Gallus, 
for he became the founder of the monastery of St. Gall. 
About A.D. 640, 'one of his companions, Sigisbert, founded 
the church of the Schattdorf, in the Canton of TTri, and 
the monastery of Disentis, in which undertaking St. 
Placidus, a rich man of that region, supported him. Yic- 
tor I., Count of Chur, placed all possible obstacles in the 
way of these godly men, and caused St. Placidus to be 
beheaded. 

These missionaries were always travelling, partly to 
confirm the faithful, partly to win additional souls ; and, 
disregarding all misery; even persecution and death, they 
established cloisters and schools ; and the enthusiasm 
which they awakened continued in its good effects dur- 
ing succeeding centuries. And when Christianity had 
long been established in Switzerland, new cloisters con- 
tinued to be erected up to the highest solitudes. In 
those dark ages these cloisters were for a time radiant 
centres of light for the preservation and spread of Chris- 
tianity. In the course of time, however, when the pres- 
ents and bequests of the faithful enriched them more 
and more, they lost their good old spirit, the love of the 
world gained control of them also, and swerved them 
from their original design. After the death of Charle- 
magne,* who had consolidated Germany, France, and 
Italy into one kingdom, Ehsetia and Helvetia were in- 
corporated with the German kingdom. Burgundy fol- 
lowed in the year 1032, and from this time forward 

* Charlemagne died January 28, a.d. 814, — li. 



ULRIO ZWINGLl'S FATHERLAND. 11 

entire Switzerland constituted a part of the German Em- 
pire. Tliose were trying times for the generations of 
that early period. Neither life nor property was safe ; 
neither divine nor human laws were regarded ; might 
made right ; the law of the sword reigned supreme. It 
began then, and continued its sway for centuries. Only 
in constant dread could the weak pass their fleeting exist- 
ence. Mighty strongholds, whose ruins to this day look 
mournfully down into the valleys, were erected on ele- 
vated places, on mountains and ledges of rocks. In 
locating them, greater reference was had to their safety 
and strength, or, if designed as a haunt for robbers, to 
concealment, than to comfort. The principal apart- 
ments of such a castle were the hall of the knights, the 
armory, the dungeon, and the chapel. The walls of the 
ground floor were very strong, and served as ramparts. 
On the outside there were no windows — all the windows 
opening on the inside toward the courtyard. Here were 
the stables for the horses, the cellar and rooms for the 
servants. The only way into and out of the castle was 
over a drawbridge, which was always up when not in 
use. To open- and close it there was a watchman at the 
gate day and night, and another stationed in the tower, 
whose duty it was to note what was passing near at hand 
and at a distance. The watchmen and servants in the 
castle were under the command of a castellan, or 
governor, who was responsible for their good behavior 
and safety. The most dreadful place in the castle was 
the dungeon in which captives were kept. Seldom if 
ever did a single ray ol sunlight penetrate into these dark 
dens of ^torture, in which the unfortunate slowly lan- 
guished and died. 

The most spacious room in the castle was the hall of 
the knights. Here hung the trophies which the 



13 THE LIFE OF ULRIC ZWINGLI. 

knightly owner had won in numerous encounters with 
his foes. Here he entertained his guests, and enjoyed 
himself, after the wild play at arms, in feasting and 
drinldng. In the armory hung offensive and defensive 
weapons, swords, helmets, coats-of-mail, lances, etc., for 
knights, esquires, and servants. If there was no quarrel, 
no tournament, no adventure, no predatory expedition, 
and if the time was not favorable for hunting, or the 
storms of winter swept into the lonely castle, fatal ennui 
entered there, and the knight vainly sought relief in 
games at dice. 

About seventy-eight years after the death of the 
Emperor Frederick I.* the power of the counts and 
feudal governors ceased. The race of the dukes of 
Swabia had become extinct. The spirit of liberty and 
independence began to stir more mightily in these 
Alpine regions. Then Eudolph of. Hapsburg was born. 
May 1st, 1218, whose descendants to this day occupy the 
throne of Austria, while the ruins of their ancestral 
castle, "Hapsburg," look down from the edge of 
Mount Wulpel into the beautiful valley of the Aar, as if 
to say : " When those who formerly commanded here 
had learned abroad to domineer, and attempted it also in 
this their ancestral home, they aroused the spirit of Free- 
dom ; it came and crushed the cradle of their house." 
Kudolph was a brave man, and his fame was sounded far 
beyond the bounds of his native land. In the year 1273 
he was chosen Emperor of Grermany, and received the 
news of his election just as he began to lay siege to the 
city of Basel. He at once made peace with the city and 
entered on his imperial government. He . introduced 
good order, restrained the law of the sword, destroyed 

* Died June 10, 1190.— L. 



ULKIC ZWINGLl'S FATHERLAND. 13 

the robbers' castles, and ordered the knightly robbers to 
be hanged. This severity produced good results. 
Peace prevailed in the country during his entire life. In 
Argau, Zurich, and Thurgau, in Gastel, the March, 
Glarus, Zug, Luzerne, and in the three Forest Cantons — 
Uri, Schwyz, and Unterwalden- — he had many manors, 
possessions and privileges. He confirmed and increased 
the ancient liberties and privileges of the cities and coun- 
try districts. He gained by conquest Austria, Steiermark, 
Carinthia, and Carniola. He died July 25th, 1291. 

His son, Emperor Albert, was of a different disposi- 
tion. He deprived the three Forest Cantons of their 
rights and liberties. He also sent cruel lieutenants to 
govern them — Beringer of Landenberg to Unterwalden, 
and Gessler of Brunek to Schwyz and Uri. In vain the 
three cantons complained of the oppression. There was 
no relief. Justly indignant, Conrad Baumgartner slew 
Wolfensciiiess, the governor, who lived in the Castle of 
Eossberg, and fled to Uri. Thither also fled Arnold of 
Melehthal from the cruelty of Beringer of Landenberg, 
who resided in the Castle of Sarnen ; and on account of 
this flight, as Arnold learaed afterward, to his great 
grief, the eyes of his poor father were put out by 
command of the governor. Gessler, riding by the fine, 
newly built house of Werner Stauffacker, at Steinen in 
Schwyz, called out to the owner, whom he saw at work 
on it, "I will not permit farmers to build houses with- 
out my consent, and to act as if they were free. I have 
the power to check this evil disposition." These words 
of the governor caused Werner Stauffacker serious re- 
flection. His wife, Margaret, who saw his concern, said 
to him, " Go to Uri, to Walter Fuerst and other honest 
friends, and consult with them how the three districts 
may be reJieved of their misery." Werner went to Uri 



14 THE LIFE OF ULRIC ZWINGLI. 

and consulted with his friends. Soon afterward the 
three men, Walter "Fuerst of Uri, Werner StaufEacker of 
Schwyz, and Arnold of Melchthal, came by night from 
Unterwalden to a secluded mountain meadow on the 
Eiitli, each accompanied by ten trusty men, and here by 
solemn oath they formed a perpetual league : " That 
they would faithfully stand by one another, and devote 
their property and blood to free the three Cantons from 
the tyranny of the governors, and to keep them free for- 
ever." January Ist, 1308, was a,ppointed as the time 
for the general uprising of the people. Meanwhile at 
Altdorf, in Uri, Gessler ordered a hat to be raised on a 
pole, with strict orders that the people show to it the 
same reverence as to himself. William Tell, a citizen 
of Biirglen, refused to bow before the hat of the tyrant, 
and was condemned to shoot an apple from the head of 
his own son. Tell hit the apple ; but when Gessler saw 
that he had another arrow in his waistcoat, he asked 
what he intended to do with it, assuring him that his life 
should suffer no harm if he told the truth. Tell an- 
swered : " That arrow was intended for you, if I had 
killed my child, and you I should certainly not have 
missed." Upon this Gessler ordered him to be chained 
and brought to the boat on which he sailed to Kuess- 
nacht. A fierce storm arose ; the boat seemed lost, and 
only Tell, who was as sldlful a steersman as marksman, 
could save those on board with him. His chains were 
removed. As soon as he was free, hehn in hand, he 
steered the boat hard by a flat rook which still bears his 
name. With one bound he was on shore, leaving the 
boat to wind and wave. His concern now was to save 
his life from the vengeance of the governor. At the 
narrow pass near Kuessnacht Tell awaited Gessler, and 
there his arrow pierced the tyrant's heart. 



ULRIO ZWIKGLl'S FATHEBLAND. 15 

On ]Sre%- Year's day, 1308, the people rose in the 
three Cantons, took possession of the strongholds, and 
sent away the governors with their goods and servants 
unharraed, after they had solemnly sworn never more to 
enter the country, nor take revenge for what had just 
been done. In the spring of the same year the Em- 
peror Albert came to Baden, in Aargau. He was on his 
way to meet his wife, who was going from Eheinfelden 
to Brugg. His nephew, Duke John of Austria, was ap- 
prised of it, and secretly told the nobles who had con- 
spired with him against the Emperor : " He rides toward 
Bragg." The conspirators had resolved on the Emper- 
or's death. They accompanied him, crossed the river 
Eeuss with him, the rest of his attendants remaining be- 
hind, and murdered him near Windisch, on the spot 
where afterward the monastery of Konigsfeld was built. 
A curse followed this deed. 

A series of struggles for freedom ensued at Morgar- 
ten, Laupen, Sempach, and !Nafels. Luzerne, Glarus, and 
Zug joined the Kiitli league. Ziirich and Berne follow- 
ed. The alliance of the eight old Cantons of the Con- 
federacy was thus complete. From this time onward 
history mentions the Helvetian or Swiss Confederacy. 
Battles were fought at St. Jacob's on the Birse, at Gran- 
son, and Murten, with the design of again reducing the 
Confederate Cantons to subjection to the House of Aus- 
tria ; but in vain. In 1481 the League had increased 
by the reception of new members ; Freiburg and Solo- 
thurn joined it. Twenty years later Basel and Schaff- 
hausen followed ; in 1513, Appenzell — ^increasing the 
Confederaay to thirteen Cantons. Basel so greatly re- 
joiced in the League that, instead of the numeroiis 
watchmen forijierly stationed at the city gate, a woman 
with a spinning-wheel was placed there to signify how 



16 THE LIFE OF ULRIC ZWINGLI. 

safe and inapproacliable tlie city felt since its reception 
into the Confederate League. 

In 1803, after 290 years of alternate joy and sorrow, 
six additional Cantons joined the Confederacy — Gri- 
sons, Aargau, Thurgau, St. Gall, Vand, and Ticino. 
Twelve years later "Wallis, Nenenburg, and Geneva were 
received, and thus the number of Confederate Cantons 
increased to twenty-two, which ratified their perpetual 
alliance by solemn oaths August 31st, 1815. 

In this sketch we have rapidly travelled through the 
Fatherland of Zwingli, and permitted a series of its 
events, extending over centuries, to pass in review before 
us. In the history of its heroic deeds, its words and 
works. Providence permits a people to see, as in a glass, 
its good and evil peculiarities, its virtues and faults, its 
advantages and weaknesses, right a,nd wrong, truth and 
error, times of joy and sadness, and much more besides, 
bringing it thus to self-consciousness, and calling to it : 
" In vain do the boldest and bravest contend, in vain do 
the wisest and most prudent consult and resolve, if the 
Lord withdraws His hand." Bloody tyranny oppressed 
the beautiful Alpine country of Switzerland tiU the 
Rtltli League laid the corner-stone of the Swiss Republic, 
which is now 575 years old. 

In times of severe distress previous to 1484, God 
raised up those who protected the cause of the oppressed 
people. Great liberties and rights had already been 
secured for them. But this liberty was freedom from 
secular tyranny alone. Their greatest nobility consisted 
in being faithful Confederates. This made them so 
strong that friendship and right were of more value to 
them than all else. They knew as yet no higher dig- 
nity. With all their patriotic liberty they were servants 
of sin. Spiritual tyranny oppressed their country with 



ULBIC ZWINQLI'S FATHERLAND. 17 

a ■wefght like that of the Alps. Other men- must follow 
those of the Riith League with a high and holy in- 
spiration for freedom, not merely from the tyrannical 
yoke of earthly rulers, but from the bondage of sin and 
the most grievous corruption of morals. Such men 
came. 



CHAPTEE II. 



"WiLDHAtrs is a small Alpine village at the eastern end 
of the valley of tlie Toggenburg, "which valley is about 
thirty miles in length, elevated 2010 feet above Lake 
Zurich, haying the Tyrolese Alps in the eastj Mt. Sentis 
on the North, Kuhfirsten with its seven peaks on the 
south. On account of a remarkable historical occur- 
rence this village has always been glaUly visited by tour- 
ists in Switzerland. One mile from the church, in the 
centre of the village, to the left of the road leading over 
the Thur, stands in a green meadow a- plainly-built, 
cheerful-looking house, with slender walls, round win- 
dow-lights, and a shingle roof, weighted down, accord- 
ing to the custom of the time, with stones. In this 
house was born the great Keformer, Dr. Ulric Zwingli, a 
man whom God called to become a distinguished teacher 
of Christianity, and the first of the fathers and found- 
ers of the Keformed Church. 

In this house lived, in the last quarter of the fifteenth 
century, a pious couple^ the parish bailiff, Ulric Zwingli, 
and his wife Margaret, whose maiden name was Meili. 
His brother Bartholomew was pastor at Wildhaus, and 
afterward dean at Wesen, where, with constantly increas- 
ing reverence, he discharged the duties of his office 
during twenty-five years. The wife of bailiff Zwingli 
had a brother, John Meili, who was for thirteen years 
abbot of the monastery at Fischingen, Canton Thurgau, 



ZWINGLl'S PAEENTAQE AND HOME. 19 

and at the same time a highly respected divine. The 
Zwingli generation was, throughout Switzerland, " a 
highly-respected, good, and honorable family." Bailiff 
Zwingli was sincerely loved by the entire population. 
He was not ashamed of honest toil. By fidelity and in- 
dustry in his calling he set the inhabitants of the Thur- 
gau Alps a praiseworthy example. He was a shepherd. 
When early in May the valleys and Alps were arrayed 
in green, Ulric Zwingli, the parish bailiff and patriarch 
of "Wildhaus, could no longer be detained in the vales 
below. Accompanied by his two sons, Heini and Claus, 
he drove his iiock up toward the green, fresh Alpine 
heights. Rising gradually higher, from station to sta- 
tion, they reached, by the 1st of August, according to 
custom, the upper pastures on the highest peaks. Then 
they returned slowly down the mountain. Toward the 
end of October the flocks had again returned to the val- 
ley, and were ready for their winter quarters. Let no 
one suppose, however, that these six pasture-months 
were without their interest. On fine summer days the 
song-loving school-children of Wildhaus frequently 
formed excursion parties, ascended the Alps, visited 
their fathers, brothers, friends, enjoyed the delightful 
Alpine air, sang their Alpine songs, drank Alpine milk, 
and amid songs and the clang of Alpine horns enjoyed 
life and amused themselves with games, jumping, pluck- 
ing Alpine roses, and then returning to their homes in 
the valley to prosecute their domestic labors, attend to 
their gardens and meadows, and prepare comfortable 
stables for their cattle. 

Through the long winter months also bailiff Zwingli 
well understood how to make the evenings pass pleas- 
antly to himself, his Margaret, his sons Heini and Claus, 
and the other citizens of Wildhaus. In almost every 



20 THE LIFE OT? ULBIC ZWIlfQLI. 

house in the Swiss valleys and on the mountains, at least 
one person knows how to play upon some musical instru- 
ment. So it was in the days of bailiff Zwingli. As soon 
as the sun had disappeared behind the fir-trees and dusky 
m"ght had settled upon the Alps, when the cattle had 
been attended to in the barns and the day's work was 
done, when the dreadfully cold mountain blasts daunted 
the peaceful inhabitants, and all, before retiring, wished 
to enjoy an hour of rest, bailiff Zwingli used to take down 
his guitar, and delight with its music the young and the 
old, assembled for a joyous, social evening hour. By 
nearly every one was brought a musical instrument for 
mutual entertainment, music from which was interspersed 
with Alpine songs ; and if the bailiff did not himself do it, 
some one of those present related a fragment of patriotic 
history of the years of public oppression and want, dur- 
ing which the country and people suffered for more than 
two hundred years from the Hapsburg governors, till 
finally, after many well-fought battles, they compelled 
them to acknowledge the Swiss as a free and indepen- 
dent people, and secured this freedom by the Swiss Con- 
federation. 

It is plain that mich conversations increased the patriot- 
ism of the inhabitants of the mountains ; that each one 
rejoiced anew in his Swiss, liberty-loving blood, was 
more closely united to his country, thought and spoke 
more devotedly of it, and endeavored to increase his own 
and others' desire for the welfare of his Fatherland. 
The liberty of these mountain people cost too much noble 
blood for a Swiss ever lightly to forget the history of his 
fathers. The history of the past afforded them, and 
will always afford to reasonable persons, insight, power, 
and courage. It places the old dangers — alas ! too often 
forgotten, yet by no means wholly vanished — and the 



ZWINGLl's PARENTAGE AND HOME. 21 

remedy for them, in a light at once new and well worthy 
of calm consideration. Therefore it well comports with 
the disposition of the Swiss gratefully to remember in 
their social circles, even on the day of patriotic rest and 
national peace, the Fathers of Morgarten, Laupen, 
!Nafels, Sempach, St. Jacob on the Birse, Granson, and 
Murten. Thus they encouraged each other in love for 
freedom, reh'gion, and their native land, putting to the 
test thereby, exercising and indefinitely increasing, the 
power of the individual and of the nation, so that in 
times of national confusion all the arts of the enemy 
might be confoimded by a courageous, genuine old 
Swiss resistance. Neither youth nor old age was ever 
permitted to imagine that all troubles were past. 

"With such winter evening considerations— summer 
and autumn gone by — Ulric Zwingli and his Margaret 
and their two sons close the year 1483 in the village 
circle of Wildhaus. The last day of the year, Decem- 
ber 31st, a Friday, comes. The last night succeeds the 
day. From the steeple of the Wildliaus church the bell 
rings out into the holy stillness of the Old Tear's night ; 
for, according to an ancient Swiss custom, the last hour 
of the expiring year was proclaimed by the ringing of 
bells. BailifE Zwingli and family piously fold their 
hands in prayer. The light is extinguished, and — all 
are at rest. 



CHAPTER III. 

ZWmOLl's BOYHOOD — HIS FIRST FIFTEEN YEAES. 

Like the expiration of the old, the beginning of the 
new year is proclaimed by the ringing of the church 
bells — a custom which, assisted by midnight silence, 
seems truly venerable, and is exceedingly touching to 
persons of advanced age. To them the question comes 
home : " Will this ringing out of the old and ringing in 
of the new year be the last one on earth for me ?" 
The eyes preparing for sleep are filled with tears. The 
past life of from sixty to eighty years is again reviewed. 
Old memories revive. Now one thing, then another, 
presents itself in a lively manner to the soul — past days 
of domestic joy, the anxiety endured, the stars of hope 
once sending forth a bright radiance, only as suddenly 
to disappear, misunderstandings in the narrow circle of 
friends, etc. To these reminiscences is often added a 
hasty visit to the grave of a dear departed one, till 
finally, overcome by the power of sleep, the eyes are 
closed. Whether this was the experience of the brave 
bailiff in the early morning hours of January 1st, 1484, 
we cannot definitely say. Having arrived .at the age of 
forty, he had just entered upon his most vigorous man- 
hood, in which, as experience teaches, there are fewer 
sighs and tears than fall to the lot of one between 
seventy and eighty years of age. Still at that age many 
things may have ha,ppened, outside of one's domestic 
circle, which rob the days of joy of much of their attract- 



ZWINGH'S BOYHOOD — HIS FIRST FIFTEEN YEARS. 23 

iveness, and cause the otherwise bravest' man to sigh : 
" All flesh is grass, and all the goodliness thereof is as the 
flower of the field : the grass withereth, the flower f adeth, 
because the spirit of the Lord bloweth upon it ; surely the 
people is grass. The grass withereth, the flower fadeth,, 
but the "Word of our God shall stand forever." 

"While bailifE Zwingli and his family slept sweetly, the 
new year, unperceived in its approach, began. It was 
the year 1484, and the first of January was destined to 
be a day of unutterable joy to the patriarch of Toggen- 
burg. Toward noon his faithful, noble wife, Margaret 
Meili, told her Ulric of the birth of a lovely little boy. 
His joy was great, as for the first time he pressed to his 
bosom the pretty babe, with its long, dark hair, prom- 
inent forehead, dark, clear eyes, closed lips, and goodly 
form. An equal pleasure he afterward experienced 
when he discovered that the little boy was destined to 
become a learned man, and would probably never watch, 
with Heini and Claus, his father's cattle on the Sentis 
Alps, and for recreation play the Alpine horn and sing the 
herdman's song. But more fervent than ever his joy 
would have been if he had foreseen in his fair offspring 
his own future honor, his support, the staff of his old 
age. The happy father now had three sons — Heini, 
Claus, and the babe. Afterward followed H!ans, "Wolf- 
gang, and Bartholomew, to whom, still later, two other 
brothers, Jacob and Andreas, and a sister, Anna, were 
added. Jacob died in 1517, Andreas in 1519. The 
bailiff found it a pleasure and duty to prepare for the 
baptism of the child. As his brother, Bartholomew, 
was a minister, the baptism was intrusted to his care and 
attended to by him. In grateful joy for the birth of his 
son on New Tear's day, the name of his father — IJlric 
— was given to him. Little Ulric was now the delight 



24 THE LIFE OF ULKIC ZWINGLI. 

of tlie household, the centre of attraction to all. His 
health was good ; he prospered bodily and spiritually. 
Except God, who created him, no one knew what course 
on earth had been assigned to him, what high calling he 
was appointed to fulfil here in the short space of the last 
thirteen eventful years of his life. Observing his mental 
faculties, which unfolded themselves early and rapidly, 
many may have asked, ""What will become of this 
child ?" But no mortal saw in him the man chosen of 
God to become the Reformer of Switzerland, through 
whom God permitted the light of His Gospel to shine in 
new splendor on the Church of Europe, darkened and 
disfigured by all sorts of errors — the man who brought 
to pass, through the Eefprmation which he established, 
an inexhaustible source of blessing to the nations of the 
earth. If ^s parents, in the pressure of their delight, 
could have seen him, in imagination, standing as priest 
beside his two uncles and reading mass — they would have 
failed to see in him tl|e protector which, from the thirty- 
second year onward, he became to his Fatherland, in the 
storms which agitated both State and Church. Of his 
brothers and sisters, of whom he had seven, besides 
Anna and her sister, history relates nothing of special in- 
terest. Of him, on the contrary, many volumes were to 
be written. 

As Zwingli advanced in years he distinguished himself 
above all the other children of the village by his mental 
powers. During the long winter evenings, when the 
bailifE related annals of Confederate history to those who 
had come from the village to spend an hour with him, or 
to his own family, and the young IJlric heard how the 
Helvetians gained renown by their successful struggles 
for liberty in 1315, 1339, 1386, 1388, 1444, and twice in 
1476, it was observed how such narratives fell into his 



ZWINGLl'S BOYHOOD — HIS FIRST FIFTEEK TEARS. 35 

inmost soul like glowing sparks. These impressions, as 
his later life showed, were never erased, but aided mate- 
rially to make him, as no other man of his time, a man 
who equally cherished hoth Church and State with warm 
and cordial love. It was his habit to sit silent, earnest 
and entirely absorbed in thought at the feet of his 
father, or of one of the elders of the Church, or of his 
pious grandmother, as during the long evenings and by 
the light of . feebly-burning tallow candles they told of 
St. Lucius, the iirst missionary, who brought the Gospel 
to Rhsetia — how he had lived in a rocky cavern above 
Chur, and proclaimed the message of salvation and 
brought many souls to the Lord Jesus Christ ; or when 
they told of Beatus' cave on the shore of lake Thun ; or 
of TJrsus and Yictor, missionaries to Solothum ; or of 
Felix and Kegula, who brought the Word of the Cross to 
Ziirich and vicinity ; or how St. Gallas, after founding 
St. Gallen, had come to Grabs to visit Deacon John, and 
had stayed with him six days ; how afterward Fridohn 
and Pirmin, in union with other heroes of the faith, had 
transformed the whole region of Ehsetia and Helvetia 
from a natural and spiritual wilderness to a fruitful land, 
full of meadows and pastures— a delightful garden of 
God ; and how in this way the valley of Toggenburg and 
the other parts of Switzerland had become a dis- 
tinguished country. As, at such hours of devotion at 
home, the father and grandmother found in him a most 
zealous listener, so in the temple of nature none listened 
as earnestly as he to the voices of the magnificent moun- 
tains. "1 have often thought," says Myconius, "that 
being brought near to heaven on these sublime heights, 
he contracted a something heavenly and divine." 
Tending his father's cattle, withdrawn from the tumult 
of "Wildhaus life, high up on the truly glorious mountain 



26 THE LIFE 03? ULEIC ZWINGLI. 

pastures, surrounded by flocks of sheep and herds of cat- 
tle, and moving among the most sublime scenes of the 
Alpine region, the young lad received the first holy im- 
pressions of God's greatness and majesty, which contrib- 
uted so much to the lofty manhood he afterward at- 
tained, and which inspired him from his youth for the 
great conflict which he undertook against the imperfec- 
tions of the Church and State of his Fatherland. How 
early his thoughtful mind dwelt in rapture on the works 
of God among these mountains ; how greatly he, even as 
a boy, devoted himself to the contemplation of the 
divine government, is evident from his work on the Prov- 
idence of God, in which in rnaturer years he so vigor- 
ously described the life and habits of mice, hedgehogs, 
■ marmots, and squirrels on the mountains, and pointed to 
them as a proof of the providence and wisdom of God. 
He treats of the earth too, the nurse of all, the dew, the 
rain, the streams, and closes with a consideration of the 
mountains. His composition, celebrating in lofty strains 
the power and majesty of God, will always show how 
greatly this boy was filled, by the heights around him, 
with a sense of God's glory. He was at the same time 
characterized by an unusually tender conscience, which 
filled him with a horror of all dishonesty and lying, and 
with a deep love of truth. "When eight years of age he 
once said that he had considered whether lying did not 
deserve greater punishment than theft, for truth is the 
mother of all virtues. From such expressions his father 
readily inferred that it would be doing injustice to little 
Ulric to confine him to a shepherd's life. He rejoiced 
greatly in this happy tendency of his son's mind. His 
parents believed that TJlrie was destined for something 
better than the watching of cattle on the hills, and re- 
solved that he should study for the ministry. 



ZWINGLl'S BOYHOOD — HIS FIEST EIFTEEK TEAKS. 27 

One day, accordingly, his father took the eight-year- 
old boy to Wesen, to place him in care of Bartholomew, 
'the bailiff's brother, and a pastor in the place. Dean 
Bartholomew Zwingli was requested to examine his 
young nephew as to his qualifications, and, if possible, to 
take him under his care and instruction for two years. 
!N"o one can divine the thoughts that flashed through the 
mind of this enthusiastic boy, as by his father's side he 
walked over the shining green heights of the Ammon, 
and passed the immovable rocks which so boldly jutted 
out from the shore into Lake Wallen. He had never 
before seen so much of the mountains. The road, too, 
led him across one of the peaks from which he could sur- 
vey at one glance the entire country which should 
become the scene of his future labors — the valley of 
Glarus, the heights of Mt. Etzel, behind which is situ- 
ated Einsiedeln and the smiling, stately shores of Lake 
Ziirich. These are the three places in which his struggle 
for the rights of the people, for the truth of the Gospel, 
and for the justification of the sinner by faith without 
the works of the Law, was afterward so manfully deter- 
mined upon, and so cautiously and systematically begun 
and continued, ending only with his death. And all this 
without the least precipitation, as he was accustomed to 
expect everything from the gradual enlightenment of 
ideas which must necessarily result from instruction con- 
stantly inaparted. 

However learned Dean Zwingli of Wesen might have 
been, his attainments were not sufficient to satisfy the 
increasing thirst for knowledge of the zealous little 
Ulric, his nephew, for more than two years. The kind- 
hearted uucle therefore sent him at once to the St. Theo- 
dore school at Basel, under the care of George Binzli, a 
thorough scholar, a kind, tender-hearted man, where he 



28 THE LIFE OF ULRIO ZWINGLIj 

made rapid progress in the study of the Greek and Latin 
languages. 

He was now, a.d. 1494, ten years old. Here at Basel, 
too, his attainments so rapidly increased that in the de- 
bates which had for many years been conducted in the 
schools of Basel, he invariably gained the victory. This 
incurred the dislike of the older boys. In music, to 
which he was also enthusiastically devoted, he advanced 
far beyond what is common in boys of his age. When 
Binzli, his faithful teacher," who cordially loved him, saw 
that his school was no longer well adapted to the wants 
of his talented scholar, he sent him home, and advised 
his father to send him to a higher educational institu- 
tion. At the close of three years' course in Basel, a.d. 
149Y, when thirteen years old, he went to Berne, where 
Henry "Wolflin, or Lupulus, a good Latin scholar, poet, 
and historian of his native land, had opened a classical 
school of high rank, in which he taught his numerous 
pupils the works of the ancient Greeks and ■ Romans. 
Here the boy, studying two years with the same success 
which characterized his stay at Basel, was introduced 
into the sanctuary of the Latin classics, by which he 
gained keenness of judgment, increased knowledge, and 
a good style of composition. He acquired the laws of 
poetry so thoroughly that at the age of fourteen he was 
able to write poems and to criticise those of other authors. 
He also actively exercised himself in music, learned 
the use of many instruments, and frequently accompa- 
nied his own voice in song, in which he was as well versed 
as in playing on the lute. The Dominican monks, 
therefore, were at great pains to attract the boy, and to 
induce him to join their order. But he could not make 
up his mind to enter a monastery ; his father and uncle 
also were opposed to it. To withdraw him from the in- 



ZWIIf^GLI'S BOYHOOD — HIS PIRST FIFTEE3J TEAES. 39 

fluence of the monks, his father desired him to return 
home without delay, Bj this recall, TJlric, now fifteen 
years old, escaped the very dangerous snare of the 
monks. The eye of God had evidently watched over 
his life. The years were approaching in which he should 
emerge from the privacy of student life into publicity. 



CHAPTER IV. 

ZWINGLI AT THE UNIVKESITIES OF VIENITA AND BASEL. 

ZwiNGLi, having studied the languages sufficiently, 
was now to devote himself to philosophy. His father 
sent him under the name of Cogentius to the famous 
University of Vienna. Here the works of the Greeks 
and Romans were in high repute, and the professors 
knew how to familiarize their pupils with the beauties of 
these heathen compositions and to inspire with zeal in 
their behalf. Here a warm friendship soon sprang up 
between him and two fellow-students (upon whom 
Maximilian I. afterward conferred the poet's ci'own), 
countrymen of Joachim of Watt, called Vadianus, after- 
ward mayor of St. Gall, and Henry Loritti, called Gla- 
reanus, of Mollis, Canton Glarus, who like Vadian 
became a devoted friend of the Reformation. He also 
formed friendship with the brothers Conrad and Leo- 
pold Grebel of Ztirich, and became acquainted with the 
Swabians, Faber and Eck. In social intercourse with 
these four Confederates the two years at Vienna passed 
like so many days, and his efforts in all branches of study 
were crowned with the most satisfactory results. But 
he did not by any means allow the clear, sound views he 
had already acquired, to be dimmed by the study of 
heathen authors. He was often heard to complain to his 
friends that so many persons studied heathen poets 
rather than the Lord Jesus Christ and His apostle Paul ! 

He was now called home to "Wildhaus, but was soon 



■ AT THE UNIVERSITIES OF VIENNA AND BASEL. 31 

convinced that the shepherd's every-d ay life no longer 
suited him, and therefore — not to be absent from his 
boplrs too long — he returned to Basel in the year 1501. 
Though now only seventeen years old, 'he was clearly 
conscious of the fact that heathen wisdom could give to 
man nothing to help his immortal soul by leading, en- 
couraging, strengthening, and comforting it in its efforts 
and strivings after truth, light, rest, and peace, in order 
that it might attain a blessed consummation after the 
countless troubles and toils of the present life. And he 
was conscious also that the Christian Church, in its then 
prevailing Koman character, had widely departed from 
its peculiar calling, and was no longer able to accom- 
plish what it had accomplished for the salvation of men 
in the first few centuries after Christ. In this glorious 
knowledge and solemn experience, the youth Zwingli 
was destined to be led an important and very decisive 
step farther. In spite of his youth, he. was, imme- 
diately after his arrival at Basel, appointed teacher in 
the Latin school of St. Martin. 

"With uncommon industry he instructed his pupils in 
Greek and Latin, prosecuting meanwhile the study of 
philosophy, and thus enjoying the opportunity of be- 
coming the vigorous-minded man who soon rose above 
the mists of his age and shone as a star of the first mag- 
nitude among the Eeformers. With rare skill, and sup- 
ported by a happy humor and social talents, he combined 
his early studies with cheering pleasantry and musical 
recreation on the lute, harp, violin, flute, timbrel, clar- 
ionet and the hunter's horn — instruments which the 
lively, happy youth played with remarkable skill. Such 
invigorating recreations for body and mind he also re- 
commended to his students. He often made his room 
and the houses of his friends echo with the airs and joy- 



32 THE LIFE OF ULEIO ZTVISTGLI. 

ful Alpine melodies of his beloved country. He found 
a faithful friend in Leo Juda, who shared with him, 
above all other friends, his love of the sciences and of 
music. 

Meanwhile the fame of this young man's learning in- 
creased to such an extent that the degree of Doctor of 
the Liberal Sciences was conferred upon him by the 
University. His noble character at this early age of less 
than twenty-two years is shown by the manner in which 
he accepted the title, bestowed on him as a valuable, 
merited testimonial to his learning. Yielding to the ear- 
nest entreaties of his friends and the prejudices of his 
time, he accepted the title of Master of Arts, but never 
used it, always saying : " One is our Master, Jesus 
Christ." 

Thoroughly prepared by philology and philosophy, 
he now devoted himself, according to his own peculiar 
design, to the study of scholastic theology. But he soon 
felt convinced that the time devoted to this confused 
study was lost, and that no benefit was to be derived 
from it for the sound doctrine of the Gospel. He never- 
theless continued its study in order to make himself ac- 
quainted with the errors of this doctrinal system. It 
was a very fortunate occurrence for his further culture,, 
that, in the midst of his labors here, Thomas Wytten- 
bach, a famous scholar, became his teacher? TEspious 
mair"taught openly and boldly that purgatory, the mass, 
priestly rule, and the invocation of saints were in direct 
conflict with the "Word of God ; that the time was not 
far distant when scholastic theology would be abolished, 
and the ancient doctrine of the Church be restored on 
the foundation of the Bible ; that absolution was a 
Eomish fraud, and the death of Christ the only satisfac- 
tion for our sins. 



AT THE TJKIVBRSITIES OF VIEITKA AND BASEL. 33 

The doctrine tauglit by "Wyttenbacli was just what 
the youthful Dr. Ubic Zwingli had been seeking for. 
His heart had been prepared for its reception. Neither 
the dignity of his doctorate nor his learning sufficed to 
calm his restless heart. It longed for that peace which 
the world cannot give, which was neither to be sought 
nor found in Eome, which surpasseth the wisdom of the 
wise, and which the God of peace and our Lord Jesus 
Christ only can put into the hearts, according to His 
"Word : " Peace I leave with you ; my peace I give unto 
you : not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not 
your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid." His 
heart longed for the assurance of the forgiveness of sins 
— and found it. 

Among the students who sat at the feet of Wytten- 
bach was the equally mild and fearless youth from 
Alsace, whose name —Leo Juda— is already known to us. 
A communion of spirit soon manifested itself between 
him and the youthful Magister Zwingli. Many precious 
hours they passed together in singing and playing on 
their instruments — Leo Juda singing with his fine treble 
voice and beating his drum, while Dr. Ulric Zwingli, 
with ready skill, accompanied him upon some one of his 
own instruments. At such times these two friends little 
thought that they were destined by Divine Providence 
to one and the same conflict — ^the same work of Refor- 
mation. They were separated for twelve years only to 
be again brought together afterward, when, in addition 
to their otherwise onerous official labors, they translated 
the Holy Scriptures from the original Hebrew -text into 
Swiss German, producing the famous Ziirich version of 
the Bible. It has since undergone but very slight revi- 
sion, little more than to render the then prevalent 
Swiss dialect into Scripture German. It is to this day 



34 THE LIFE OF ULEIC ZWIKGLI. 

regarded as one of tlie most excellent translations of the 
Bible, and has had a very extensive circulation in 
America. The complete translation was in the hands of 
the people in 1530. 



CHAPTER V. 

FEOM BASEL TO GLAEUS. 

The youtkful Master of Arts had now finished his 
studies in Basel. The goal which he had so long desired 
to reach beckoned him onward. Sustained by the con- 
fession : "I confess indeed that I am a great sinner 
before God, but I am free from crime, so that no hximan 
being has ever found it necessary to call me to account 
for any sin ;" and grateful for God's guidance hitherto : 
" From my boyhood the Lord has always kindly helped 
me in the investigation of human and divine things" — 
he could look to the future without fear or the least 
wavering. The treasure of knowledge which he had 
been uninterruptedly gathering during fourteen years 
from the writings of Greeks and Eomans, but especially 
the doctrine taught by Wyttenbach of salvation on the 
foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ 
Himself being the chief Corner Stone, had cultivated in 
him such an independent manhood that, in his twenty- 
second year, he was already willing and ready to live and 
die for the common welfare of the Church and State of 
.his Fatherland. Providence beckoned him. Before his 
consecration to the priesthood, almost before the com- 
pletion of his studies, he received (by whose suggestion 
is not known ; perhaps through the recommendation of 
Glareanus), a call to the pastorate of Glarus. The 
charge was vacant. Henry Goeldli, the Pope's groom, 
who already possessed the revenue of a parish, appeared 



36 THE LIFE OF ULRIO ZWINGLI. 

with a parchment in his hand, having been sent by the 
Pope, and claimed to be the duly appointed incumbent 
of the vacant charge. In a trice the Grlareans remem- 
bered the struggles for freedom by which they had 
achieved their liberty, and turned the papal hanger-on 
back to Ziirich, whence he had come. As the groom 
could not possibly serve the congregation, it was at once 
evident to the city church of Glarus that the only object 
of Henry Goeldli was money. To preserve the pubUc 
peace, therefore, the kind-hearted Glareans gave hira a 
purse of gold and silver coin, and thus hastened his de- 
parture. 

The honorable call to the youth of Wildhaus, and es- 
pecially the fact that he had risen to the dignity of Doc- 
tor of Philosophy, had long since been heralded as far as 
the Glarean Alps. Pride in their ancient pastoral race 
blazed up anew in the hearts of the Glareans. They 
were determined to have the young Doctor of the Arts 
and Sciences as their priest, and they elected and for- 
mally called him in the year 1506. Dr. Ulric Zwingli, 
Pastor of Glarus, was ordained priest in Constance, de- 
livered his first sermon, on his return, in Rapperschwyl, 
on the shore of Lake Zurich, and soon thereafter read 
mass for the first time in "Wildhaus, his birthplace, and 
entered upon the duties of his pastorate in Glarus 
toward the close of the year. 

There, during an active life of ten years, he showed, 
without fear or favor to high and low, that forms may 
and do change, but that truth and justice are always the 
same, and that the whole of Switzerland should remain 
true to their ancient destiny — namely^ the defence of the 
liberty achieved by the fathers against clerical and secu- 
lar enemies. In him was clearly manifest the great 
friend and deliverer of the Church and the Fatherland. 



FROM BASEL TO GLAKtJS. 37 

The reconstruction of the Church in doctrine and cultus 
began while he, assured that the minister to be useful 
in his office ought himself to know much, applied himself 
with new zeal to his studies. He read the ancient 
classics, especially the historians. Among the Greeks 
he preferred Lucian. 

The attainment of two things especially concerned' 
him : a complete knowledge of Scripture doctrine, and 
the art of making his senuons understood by all. He 
succeeded in both these things in a remarkable degree. 
Learned and scientifically qualified men considered him 
a finished expounder of the Word of God.* With ever- 
increasing zeal he endeavored to master the original lan- 
guages. With his own hand he transcribed the Epistles 
of St. Paul, and read them so industriously that he' knew 
them literally by heart. He afterward familiarized him- 
self in the same way with the other books of the New 
Testament. Meanwhile he continued to make less and 
less account of commentators, and more and more of the 
Scriptures themselves. He found that the Church. 
Fathers were often led by the philosophical systems, 
which, from regard for the authorspEad gained equal 
authority in the Church with the Bible itself. Not to 
fall into the same mistake, he compared passages with 
each other, endeavoring to determine the . meaning of 
those that were dark and difficult by those that were easy 
and clear. 

He soon perceived that Christian doctrine could not 
gain entrance as long as the fountains of moral disorder 
were not checked. He earnestly attacked in his sermons 
the prevailing vices, especially the annual pensions 
which foreign princes paid to prominent citizens to 

* " Zwingli, tlie son of an humble peasant, but a profound and ele- 
gant scholar." — Brownson's (Eoman Catholic) Beview, 1856. — L. 



38 THE LIFE OF ULEIO ZWIUGLI. 

secure tlieir favor for the enlistment of troops for the 
foreign military service. His sermons against the prev- 
alent vices, the pensions, and the mania for going to 
foreign wars, from the abolition of which he expected 
the restoration of the former prosperity of the Swiss, 
raised up against him, even in Glarus, some powerful 
enemies among the opposers of enlightenment. But 
when the hum of these bumblebees reached his ears, 
he comforted himself with the cordial friendship of all 
right-thinking persons, among whom were often the 
elderly men and those among the priests distinguished 
by irreproachable character. These respected and loved 
the zealous preacher of morals on this very accoxmt, and 
hoped from him the restoration of the prosperous times 
of primitive innocence and simplicity of manners. 
*' Let us believe and obey what is revealed to us in the 
Word of God. Whatsoever is not found in it must be 
regarded as superfluous ; and whatsoever is against it, as 
erroneous and xmtrue." This was the law of his preach- 
ing and of his other ofiSeial acts. Here in Glarus he was 
already a truly evangelical preacher, but not as yet 
openly a Reformer of the Church. He proclaimed the 
doctrine of the Gospel pungently and plainly. The er- 
rors that had crept in he very briefly confuted, or 
passed by unnoticed, maintaining that the truth, when 
once perceived and understood, had power suflacient to 
beat down all errors. Under the circumstances, in the 
/prevailing corriiptionof the entire Church, the only safe 
measure seemed to be to raise up the truth. Had he 
levelled his attack against the reigning errors and abuses, 
before the time had fully come for it, more harm than 
good would have resulted. 

Zwingli learned to know Eomish affairs still more in- 
timately from his personal intercourse and correspond- 



FROM BASEL TO GLAEUS. 39 

enee with the leading princes of the Church, especially- 
Cardinal Schinner, bishop in Wallis (Vallais). This 
oflScial observed the great influence -which Zwingli was 
visibly gaining, and as lie constantly endeavored by gold 
and other means to win the Swiss over to the Pope as 
food for hostile cannon in his unrighteous campaigns 
against the King of France and other princes, it was of 
vast account to him to win Zwingli also. He offered 
him therefore an annual pension of fifty florins to aid 
him in purchasing the books necessary for his studies, 
which were then so dear that Zwingli, being poor, could 
not have bought them without this aid. Zwingli be- 
lieved that the Cardinal had no dishonest motive in the 
bestowment of this pension, and therefore directed the 
bishop's attention to existing abuses, and hopefully 
believed that the Koman See felt sincerely inclined to 
abolish them. But soon the Court at Rome sent him 
earnest admonitions, not by any means to preach against 
the Eoman Church, but to conflde implicitly in the 
Pope. Zwingli now became painfully conscious that 
the pension, ostensibly conferred upon him to aid him in 
his studies, was really designed to make him also subser- 
vient to the Pope. Boldly he declared that no money 
could induce him to depart a hair's breadth from ' the 
known truth, because he well knew that the blood of the 
lambs, perishing through any fault of his, would be re- 
quired at his hands. 

At this time the duties of his office called him far 
beyond the boundaries of his parish into the wild throng 
of the camp and to the battle-field. In 1512 and 1513, 
when 20,000 Confederates in the pay of Pope Julius II. 
marched to Italy, it was the duty of the young pastor of 
Grlarus, according to the primitive custom of the Swiss, 
to accompany the troops of the Canton twice to the 



40 THE LIFE Of ULRIC ZWINGLI. 

field, in tlie capacity of chaplain. The Pope's cam- 
paign was against Louis XII. of France. Two years 
later Zwingli was present at the bloody battle of Marig- 
nano, to which the Swiss, in spite of his protest, had al- 
lowed themselves to be incited by Cardinal Schinner. 
In a two-days' battle with the French, September 13th 
and lith, 1515, the Confederates lost several thousand 
men.* Zwingli had penetrated the cunning knavery of 
the Cardinal, and had seen that the Pope was less con- 
cerned for the salvation of souls than for earthly power 
and aggrandizement, for the attainment of which he 
allowed, without any scruples of conscience, the blood 
of his friends as well as of foes to be freely shed on the 
field of battle. 

The Italian campaigns, which brought Zwingli re- 
luctantly to Milan, were, in other respects, of great im- 
portance to him. He had previously been convinced 
by old liturgies that the manner in which things were 
done in ancient times differed from the present ; that 
then, for instance, the Holy Communion was adminis- 
tered in both kinds. In Milan he soon saw that the cus- 
tomary form for the celebration of mass was very differ- 
ent from that used by Pope Gregory ; and that formerly 
individual churches, like that of Milan under Ambrose, 
had maintained great freedom in opposition to the Pope. 

These observations, in connection with his inner long- 
ings after consolation and truth, urged his mind more 
and more to the Holy Scriptures. He painfully experi- 
enced that " Out of the heart proceed evil thoughts," 
against which one's own will is wholly powerless. 
Though he coald comfort himself with the forgiveness 
of his sins and imperfections, his mind was not yet fully 

* More than 5000, says Hottinger. — L. 



FROM BASEL TO QLARU3. 41 

satisfied ; lie desired not only forgiveness of sins, but to 
be fully cleansed. About this time he saw a composi- 
tion by Erasmus, in which Jesus laments that men do 
not seek all good things in Him, who is the only Fountain 
of all good, yea the only comfort, defence, and Saviour 
of souls. This complaint from Jesus touched Zwingli 
deeply, and he resolved to lay aside aU other writings of 
Erasmus in honor of the saints, and to seek all good in 
Jesus alone, his only Mediator. 

These observations and experiences doubtless had great 
effect in causing Zwingli's liberty-loving heart to rebel 
against the leaders of the inoffensive people, whose 
greedy poverty was so incessantly allured- by the prom- 
ises of the rich that they allowed themselves to be bar- 
tered away by thousands like cattle for the slaughter. 
They also induced him more determinedly to wage the 
war that presented itself to his inmost soul — not to turn 
aside, but to take a decided stand for the Reformation in 
Switzerland, Germany, and France, which he so glori- 
ously helped to accomplish. 

The commendable zeal with which he interested him- 
self on behalf of young men afforded him an opportunity 
not only to maintain but to constantly increase the love 
and respect of the people of Glarus. Whenever he dis- 
covered peculiar talents in young men, he endeavored, 
by ■ friendly advances, by instruction and example, to 
lead them to become lovers of the sciences and friends 
of their Fatherland. Of his success, and the affection 
with which his friends and pupils clung to him, there 
are to this day many touching evidences in the archives 
of the Church at Zurich. Louis and Peter Tschudi, 
their brother JEgidius, the excellent historian, Valen- 
tine, their nephew, who succeeded Zwingli in the pas- 
torate of Glarus ; Jacob Heer, Fridolin and Philip Brun- 



43 THE LIFE OF ULEIC ZWINGLI. 

nei, Francis Cervimis, Nicholas Baling, and a certain 
Taureolus, belong to the known friends of Zwingli, who 
in later years and from foreign lands manifested their 
love to him by word and deed. 

The position of this bold preacher of the Truth, with 
his patriotic heart and honest purpose, began to become 
critical. He was moreover not to remain more than ten 
years in Glarns. Einsiedeln and Zurich were waiting for 
him. Besides, no one would have supposed that after 
only fifteen years this great man of the Church and the 
Fatherland would no longer be among the living. A 
powerful party insisted on a Swiss alliance with France. 
Zwingli cautioned his country against it. The Pope's 
party also sought adherents. In vain Zwingli called 
upon, admonished, and entreated his Glareans not to en- 
gage in foreign alliances. He could no longer contain 
himself. His oppressive grief embittered all his minis- 
trations. He would fain leave Glarus. The Lord too 
had so ordered it, that His champion might come nearer 
the battle-field on which He designed to place him. A 
new charge beckoned him away. The Lord called His 
champion, and he followed. 



CHAPTEE YI. 

FEOM GLAEUS TO EINSIEDELN. 

Ten years passed by. "While Zwingli's enemies in 
Glarus intended to do liim harm, God employed friends 
to open a refuge in which, he might rest from the fierce 
assaults of those who opposed him in Glarus. Dr. Die- 
bold of Gerodseck, prior of the monastery and a lover 
of the sciences, offered him the subordinate living of 
the princely foundation at Einsiedeln (Canton Schwyz). 
Zwingli accepted the appointment with joy, and entered 
into a written contract with the prior at Pfaeffikon, on 
Lake Zurich, April IMi, 1516, in reference to the 
duties and salary of his new ofiice, while he declined the 
call of the Council of Winterthur to a charge there. 
The calling of Zwingli to the monastery at Einsiedeln 
happened doubtless wi!h the knowledge and consent of 
the abbot, Conrad of Eechberg, a pious, upright man, 
possessing no great learning indeed, but holding firmly 
the truth as far as he understood it. Once, when his 
monastery was visited by his superiors, and he was told 
that he was suspected of undervaluing the mass, he inno- 
cently replied : "If Christ be in the bread, I, a poor 
monk, am not worthy to behold the eternal God, much 
less to offer Him. If Christ be not therein, woe to me 
if, instead of God, I offer bread, and let the people wor- 
ship it." His prior, Diebold von Geroldseck, was also 
a pious man, a Swabian, who delighted in gathering 
around him men of genius and piety, and appointiijg 



44 THE LIFE OF ITLEIC ZWINGLI. 

them to office in the monastery. He invited Zwingli to 
come to Einsiedeln, especially as the papal chaplain, 
Francis Zink, an influential man, advised, this step. 
Einsiedeln, to which Zwingli removed in the summer of 
1516, was the last station in the course of instruction by 
which God prepared him for the work of a Reformer. 
The causes which led him to locate at Einsiedeln were 
partly the intrigues of the French and the papal party, 
partly the design and hope of spreading evangelical 
truth more rapidly and widely in this most celebrated 
place of pilgrimage for Southern Germany, and to over- 
throw superstition in this its stronghold. That the 
people of Glarus regretted his departure is evident from 
the fact that his salary as priest of Giarus was paid to him 
for two years, in the hope that he might return. The 
old love of the Glareans to their pastor appears also from 
a letter, written by him a year after he entered on his 
pastorate at Einsiedeln, and directed to the Council of 
Winterthur, Canton Zurich, in reference to the charge 
offered to him in that place, in which he says he could 
not accept their call, "as it might displease his gracious 
lords in Glarus." He signed his name as priest of 
Glarus and minister at Einsiedeln. 

In this latter place Zwingli soon became the intellect- 
ual centre of a circle of friends, embracing men like 
Franz Zink, John Oechslein, Dr. Michael Sander, and 
others, who gladly permitted him to lead them to a still 
deeper knowledge of the Gospel. But while leading 
others into the truth, he himself enjoyed such deep inner 
experience of the truth as it is in Jesus, the only Sav- 
iour, that he could no longer calmly permit its open 
denial. He desired not only to direct his friends in the 
monastery to the Holy Scriptures, and to tell them, 
' ' The time will soon be at hand, when neither Jerome 



FEOM GLAEUS TO EIKSIEDBLN. 45 

nor any other but the Scriptures will have much weight 
with Christians ;" but he also himself felt compelled to 
preach the Word of God purely and plainly to the im- 
mense multitudes that flocked together in this place of 
pilgrimage. 

In golden letters above the door to the monastery 
stood these words : "Hio est plena remissio omnium pec- 
catorum a culpa et poena.'' '* This inscription was the 
more readily believed by thousands, as a number of the 
popes had promised absolution from the guilt and pun- 
ishment of sin to all who here invoked the image of the 
-Virgin Mary. The coarse superstition of the crowds 
streaming from Switzerland, Alsace, and Southern Ger- 
many soon reported miracle after miracle performed by 
this image of Mary. People prayed to the image, and 
bestowed upon it the most valuable gifts. The monas- 
tery grew richer and more famous. To these hosts of 
pilgrims it was Zwingli's duty to preach. It was always 
considered a special duty of the vicar to confirm the 
people by, his sermons in their faith in the miraculous 
power of the image of the Yirgin and the reliability of 
absolution. Zwingli, however, did not preach what the 
superstitious hosts of pilgrims expected to hear, but he 
preached " the one thing needful." He directed the 
people to Jesus, who might be found wherever He was 
sincerely sought ; that it was foolish and unchristian to 
confine the grace of God to particular localities ; that 
the Pope had indeed so ordered it, as the Saviour had 
foretold. Matt. 24 : 26—" Wherefore if they shall say 
unto you, Behold He is in the desert, go not forth ; be- 
hold He is in the secret chambers, believe it not." 
Thus the Pope had done, and confined Christ and His 

* Here is full absolution from the guilt and punishment of all 



46 THE LIFE OF ULKIO ZWIN6LI. 

grace to Kome and other places of pilgrimage. He who 
attributes full power to man to forgive sin, slanders God. 
He also showed the pilgrims that the invocation of Mary 
was ofEensive to the Law of God and to herself also. 

Though he could not bring about a peculiar reforma- 
tion here, as he afterward did in Ziirich, he was never- 
theless the Eef ormer who fearlessly and under the power 
of a divine call attacked the errors of the Church creed, 
as he invariably did during the great festivals, when from 
near and far thousands assembled in the abbey. He had 
now entered upon the thirty- third year of his life, en- 
riched by the experience of ten years in Glarus, and 
could no longer be shaken in the position he so boldly 
assumed, that "Christ is our only salvation." On the 
great festival of the Holy Angels, a.d. 1517, a day when 
the abbey was usually filled to overflowing, he boldly 

(proclaimed to all that remission of sins and everlasting 
life were not to be sought of the holy Virgin, but of 
Christ ; that absolution, pilgrimages, and vows, and the 
presents made to the saints, have no value ; that God's 
grace and help are everywhere within reach ; and that 
Pie heai'S prayer at other places as well as at Einsiedeln ; 
that the excessive veneration of the holy Yirgin was prej- 
udicial to God's glory ; that, as there is no purgatory, 
the masses for the soul are useless ; that the merit which 
some thought to gain by assuming monastic vows was 
pure imagination ; that not Mary, but Christ, is our 
only salvation. 

These faithful testimonies of the bold, youthful 
teacher penetrated the cities and villages of Switzerland, 
down into Alsace, over into Germany, where they every- 
where prepared the hearts of those who heard and were 
moved by them, for the work of the German Eeforma- 
tion. 



FEOM GLABUS TO EINSIEDELN. 47 

The results of the hitherto unheard-of doctrines which 
he preached at Einsiedeln soon followed. Hartman, 
the historian, states that these evangelical sermons had 
effected a visible diminution of pilgrimages, and that 
many of the pilgrims had taken home with them the 
gifts they had intended to bestow on the Virgin. Zwin- 
gli qtdeted the prior, who had become somewhat nneasy, 
by saying : " Once for all we must determine to cling 
inseparably to right, truth, and God, though with the 
loss of property and life. Once for all we must vent- 
ure, and expose ourselves to the danger of death for the 
truth, and to confirm the mind against all the attacks of 
the flesh, the world, and the devil." These words per- 
fectly calmed the aged Geroldseck. He was surprised 
at the magnanimity of Zwingli, who lost more than he 
by the diminution of superstition, for Zwingli's annual 
salary was only eighty florins, besides perquisites derived 
from altar presents and masses for the dead. Thereafter 
he. alio wed the youthful but inspired pastor to proceed 
unhindered in his labors. The image of Mary, hitherto 
so idolatrously worshipped, was removed and buried. 
The golden inscription concerning absolution was also 
taken away from the door of the abbey. In place of 
Latin hymns,, the New Testament was read in the Ger- 
man language ; an Order of "Worship, which Zwingli, 
by direcbion of the prior, had already in 1516 introduced 
in the abbey Fahr, which belonged to Einsiedeln, was 
adopted and used. His bold festival sermon on the day 
of the Holy Angels, 1517, was followed by a similar one 
on Whitsunday, 1518, on the miraculous cure of the sick 
of the palsy, Luke 5 : 24. The effect of these festival 
sermons was great, and extended far beyond the bound- 
aries of Switzerland. Such a bold, profoundly learned, 
and inspired preacher had not been seen in Einsiedeln 



48 THE LIFE OP ULKIC ZWINGLI. 

before. Many pilgrims heard the word of truth with 
dread, others received it with joy, and propagated it on 
their way home, saying : " People need no longer go to 
Einsiedeln for the forgiveness of sins ; God gives it 
through Christ, and without money, wherever they sin- 
cerely ask it of Plim." Such surprising accounts 
sounding almost like a fable, induced other souls in 
search of salvation to come to Einsiedeln, desiring to 
hear more of such comforting doctrines. Even learned 
men travelled to Einsiedeln in order to hear the testi- 
mony concerning the Crucified One from the lips of 
Zwingli himself. Thus, at Whitsuntide, 11)17, there 
appeared in the great congregation a minister by the 
name of Dr. Hedio, from Basel, who was so transported 
with joy that he most earnestly entreated Zwingli to 
receive him into the circle of his friends, or at least to 
allow him to be the shadow of a friend. Of the sermon 
he expressed this opinion : " It was beautiful, thorough, 
solemn, comprehensive, penetrating, evangelical in the 
power of its language and spirit, reminding one of the 
old Church fathers. " 

Zwingli not only endeavored to impress the people 
during his stay in Einsiedeln, but also, wherever possible, 
the clergy and dignitaries of the Church. When the 
Cardinal-bishop of Sitten in Yallais, Matthasus Schinner, 
once visited Zwingli, the latter led the conversation to 
the human ordinances and the great pomp in worship. 
He cautioned the Cardinal as to the results that would 
follow the evils that had been so long and vainly noticed, 
and admonished him to lay hold of the lief ormation him- 
self, as the papacy rested on a poor foundation, which 
he clearly and irrefutably proved to him from Holy 
Scripture. He also discussed the Reformation with the 
papal legate in Switzerland^ Antonius Puccius. He 



FROM GLAEU8 TO BIKSIBDELJf. 49 

desired the free and unhindered preaching of the Gospel, 
saying that he, hitherto nnmolested by human ordi- 
nances, would continue to preach the pure Gospel to- the 
people, "which would cause popery to totter. 

Such well-meant, warning voices, however, remained 
unheeded, though both thesp dignitaries acknowledged 
the demoralized condition of the Church. True, an an- 
swer to such complaints reached Zwingli from liome. 
Zwingli despised it. He esteemed the ignominy of 
Christ and His crown of thorns more highly than the 
honorable position of "an acolyte-chaplain to the Pope," 
which was offered him with the most flattering expres- 
sions of regard. Instead of allowing himself to be 
bribed by Home, he now directed his attention to the 
Bishop of Constance, Hugo of Landenberg, who had ad- 
dressed a pastoral letter to the clergy, solemnly deplor- 
ing the increasing degeneracy of the Church. Nor from 
Constance could Zwingli obtain support in his struggles 
for Reformation. The high dignitaries of the Pope 
were evidently not the men whom God had destined for 
the reconstruction of His deeply corrupted Church. For 
a long time indeed Zwingli had been assured in his own 
mind that no help could be expected from Eome ; that 
the papacy must fall ; and he calmly and deliberately 
continued the work of Beformation. 

At this time, when Zwingli still labored in Einsiedeln, 
Bemhardin Samson, a barefooted friar, entered Switzer- 
land by way of Mount Gothard, August, 1518, bringing 
letters of indulgence from the Pope, and selling the for- 
giveness of sin for money. He had obtained power 
from Pope Leo X. , not only to forgive past sins for pay, 
but also sins that were yet to be committed.* He es- 

* Inckilgeniice arUe factum. — ^I/. 



50 THE LIFE OF TJLKIC ZWINGLI. 

pecially claimed power to deliver souls from purgatory, 
and boasted : 

' ' When the money in my platter rings, 
The soul from purgatory springs. " 

As soon as Zwingli heard of Samson's imposture, lie 
earnestly preached against indulgences, no one under- 
takiug to hinder him. The result was that the papistical 
impostor fled hurriedly from the Cantons Uri and 
Scliwyz. He came to Zug, where he carried on his 
trade for three days, receiving wagon-loads of money. 
The poor and the rich crowded' around him. One day 
when the poor were more importunate than the rich, he 
turned them away with these words : " Dear people, do 
not crowd yourselves forward so eagerly. Let those 
come first who have money ; I will afterward give good 
advice to those also who have no money." From 
thence he visited the Cantons Unterwalden and Lu- 
zerne, and after first sending several loads of money to 
Christoph of Ferli, the Pope's general agent in Switzer- 
land, he continued his very remunerative journey to 
Beme. At first the Bernese refused to receive him, but 
Samson was not easily frightened. Here too he suc-^ 
ceeded in filling his bags with money, and then early in 
the year 1519 he moved down the Argau toward Ziirich, 
where we shall meet him again. 

Public esteem for the fearless preacher of Einsiedeln 
rose higher daily. At home and abroad his admirers in- 
creased, new friends daily joining his ranks, and the old 
becoming more intimately united to him. Entire cities 
also looked up to him, Winterthur sent him a call ; 
Glarus begged him to return ; Einsiedeln tried to keep 
him. All in vain. Ziirich was waiting for him. 
Thither he shouM go, according to God's counsel and 



FROM GLARUS TO BINSIKDI^LK. 51 

will. There his appropriate and last field awaited him, 
for which Glarus and Einsiedeln had served as prepara- 
tory schools to qualify him by a twelve years' experience 
in the pastoral office, to be the man whom Zurich 
needed. A remarkable arrangement of God : When 
toward the close of the year 1518 the pastorate in the 
Great Minster of Ziirich became vacant, many men im- 
mediately suggested that Zwingli be secured for it. My- 
copius, for several years dean in the Great Minster 
school, wrote to Zwingli and solemnly asked him to con- 
sider the matter. Zwingli manifested a willingness to 
accept the position, especially so as Myconius replied to 
him : " You have friends here, but also bitter fault- 
finders — a smaller number of these. I have visited 
many of the laity. They say that you will be the evan- 
gelist of their native city. I also know that some of the 
canons say the same thing, but secretly." Though 
Zwingli could call his situation at Einsiedeln a happy 
one, and the lord of Geroldseck had bound him by great 
promises, which he had not yet fulfilled, his resolve had 
been firmly made to accept, if elected, as he had good 
reasons to hope that in Ziirich he could labor with yet 
better results than in Einsiedeln. For Ziirich was not 
only the centre of all public affairs of Switzerland, 
which always drew "thither numbers of distinguished 
statesmen, but it was also, on account of its many 
learned men, who lived in retirement there, the most 
convenient place for work on a grand scale, for scatter- 
ing the seed of the Word over entire Helvetia. Here he 
also found a permanent audience, whereas at Einsiedeln 
his hea;'ers consisted of pilgrims who had no abode there. 
On the 11th of December, 1518, the election was held. 
He was chosen by a large majority, seventeen canons 
voting for him, and only seven against him, which is a 



52 THE LIFE or ULEIC ZWINGLI. 

matter of great wonder, as they all knew tliat there would 
be an end of the papacy and of the honors which they 
had received from Rome, if Zwingli's sermons should 
prevail, of which each felt already assured in advance. 
At Einsiedeln the people reluctantly gave him up. He 
was greatly beloved, not only by the prior, but by the 
people and the government of the Canton Schwyz. At 
home and abroad, wherever Zwingli's name was known, 
the people were delighted with the news of his election. 
Glareanus wrote from Paris, January 19th, 1519 : " All 
the Swiss youth rejoice and huzza, especially the Ziirich- 
ers." Before he left Einsiedeln, however, he took 
measures to secure for it a like-minded successor, who 
was found in the person of Leo Juda. On the strength 
of his recommendation the congregation in Glarus chose 
Yalentine Tschudi. To the people of Winterthur he 
recommended his friend Dingauer, whom they accord- 
ingly elected. Though Einsiedeln has remained in the 
bosom of the Roman Church, his two years of evangeli- 
cally reforming work were by no means in vain. 
Calmly and with good cheer he could now, toward the 
end of December, direct his steps toward Ziirich. 



CHAPTEE YII. 

ZWIJSTGLl's COKNECTIOH WITH ROME — SAD EESTTLTg. 

By the successful issue of the Burgundian war and tlie 
war with, the Emperor and the Swabian Leagud of the 
Knights of St. George's Shield, Confederate Switzer- 
land had not only saved and confirmed its freedom, and 
thereby secured a stronger self-consciousness, but was 
also elevated for a time to a political prominence which 
brought for the people of the Confederacy not only ad- 
vantages, but also very painful losses. It is true, many 
old prejudices were lost by the war, and people learned 
how to judge more correctly of state and national wants; 
But the succeeding straggles and fortunes of this vener- 
able Kepublic taught that many pious customs of the an- 
cient fathers — who offered up everything to their faith 
in freedom, and felt themselves so strong in this that 
they esteemed friendship and right above everything — 
were lost by-customs imported from abroad ! For the 
present, the political freedom obtained strengthened the 
old indignation against the tyrannic rule of the priests 
and the intolerance which enchained the spirit of the free 
people. Four hundred years before, Hanrich in West- 
ern Helvetia and Arnold of Brescia, in the eastern part 
of the country, had risen against the Roman hierarchy, 
its cultus, teaching, and dogmatics. They had found 
many adherents, who in secret earnestly longed for more 
propitious times. In the beginning of the 16th century 
the Swiss entered into political co'nnection with the 



54 THE LIFE OF ULRIO ZWIIhQLI. 

Pope, whose crafty representations they readily believed, 
and who knew well how to gain the first place among 
the princes that applied for their troops. Yet the indi- 
vidual cantons were not blind to the abuses and assump- 
tions of the Papal Court, which, on account of its re- 
peated perfidy toward inoffensive Switzerland, they 
could no longer esteem as formerly. The alliance, 
which had been too inconsiderately entered into with 
Eome, and the more intimate acquaintance with .the 
Court resulting from it, opened the eyes of those whose 
perception had not been blinded by their ancient rever- 
ence. Though the Pope and his legates insidiously 
tried to induce them to obey him blindly also in political 
affairs as the infallible Head of Christendom, they never 
succeeded. In the year 1517 Leo X. conferred the posi- 
tion of chief of his guards, rendered vacant by the death 
of Casper of Silenen, on the distinguished burgomaster 
of Ziirich, Marx Koust, through whom he designed to 
influence the Swiss in his favor ; but throughout Switz- 
erland the proffered position was looked upon as nei- 
ther honorable to the Head of the Swiss League nor 
compatible with his office ; and the burgomaster himself 
pleaded that his advanced age prevented the acceptance 
of it. But Ennius, the Pope's legate, knew well how 
craftily to meet all objections. He maintained " that 
the guarding of the Vicegerent of Christ was the high- 
est possible honor for the Swiss. Many had tried to 
obtain the position, but the Pope would confer it upon 
no one except his most dearly beloved sons, the Ziirich- 
ers. And not to deprive Switzerland too long of the 
services of this excellent man, the Pope would ere long 
honorably discharge him, and allow his son to succeed 
him. He would incur no risk as to his health, as God 
would not allow that one travelling in the service of His 



ZWINGLl'S CONNECTIOK WITH ROME — SAD RESULTS. 55 

vicegerent on earth should euflEer injury while obeying 
the divine call. " That sufl3ced. The burgomaster was 
allowed to depart. Meanwhile the Pope did not gain 
much by this step. For, as he called upon the Swiss to 
take part in the war against the Turks, but directed his 
attacks against the Duke of Albino, and through the 
Cardinal-bishop of Sitten, Matthseus Schinner, hired 
several thousand Swiss, the Confederate cantons pro- 
hibited the enlistment. Leo sent a second time. He 
asked for 6000 men. They were refused him. But he 
in other ways procured TOOO, led them in seven divisions 
into Italy, and thus broke the treaty of alliance. 

A third time Leo sent a legate, and asked for 12,000 
for the Pope's expedition against the Turks. His legate 
was not now, as before, Ennius, but Antonius Puccius. 
He promised, in the name of his master, that the Pope 
would take the entire Swiss force, on account of their 
bravery and fidelity, as his body-guard, and command 
them in person. In vain. A few months later, in 1518, 
he again under a similar pretext asked for the same 
number of men. Switzerland promised him 10,000 as 
soon as all Christendom would take up arms. To make 
up the deficiency of 2000 men, they proposed to send 
him that number of priests ! But the Pope could not 
be intimidated, and a year later he sent his legate Puc- 
cius to the Confederate Diet at Glarus, requesting Switz- 
erland not to enter into an alliance with any nation, so 
that the Pope miglit, in case of necessity, use their 
troops against the Turks. Sw^itzerland replied to him 
with a complaint : " The Pope pays the annual pensions 
very tardily, and even then in depreciated currency. 
Tlie clerical ofiBces were sold for money to the soldiers, 
who afterward resold them. The bishops defended and 
acquitted priests charged with murder, and convicted of 



56 THB LIFE OF ULHIC ZWINQLI. 

heresy and the grossest crimes." Puecius made all sorts 
of promises, but kept none. When the cantons saw 
that no abolition of existing abuses could be expected 
from the Roman Court, they unanimously resolved to 
rely upon themselves ; that thereafter every one that 
bought a pastoral charge should be put in a bag and 
drowned. The Pope remained silent. In October of 
the same year he sent his legate, with increased powers, 
to the Confederates, and asked the Diet to defend the 
Holy See, exterminate the new doctrine, and burn all 
books on the subject. At this demand a fire hitherto 
smouldering under the ashes had well-nigh broken out 
into brilliant flames, for some approved, others rejected, 
the demand. First, the troops asked for the defence of 
the Holy See were refused. The Diet wished to know 
first against whom they were to be employed. After 
declining to tell for a long while, Puecius said : " Per- 
haps against the Duke of Ferrara ; also against the 
French." To secure this dukedom for himself, the 
Pope had made an attempt to assassinate the Duke. In 
May of the same year he had also broken with the 
French, and formed an alliance with the Emperor. At 
last 6000 men were furnished Mm. 

In the following year the King of France asked of the 
Diet, which met in Luzerne August 3d, a levy of 
troops, and to gain his end bribed the deputies of the 
cantons. He succeeded. Two months later the Pope 
again sent his legate Ennius, and demanded through him 
at least 6000 men to fight against France. They were 
refused, as Switzerland had lately formed an alliance 
with France. Ennius threatened that soldiers must be 
speedily furnished, or Pome would hire Confederates in 
and outside of Switzerland. In vain was the prohibi- 
tion of enlistments more firmly insisted upon. During 



ZWINGLl'S CONNECTION WITH SOME— SAD RESULTS, 57', 

harvest, in some localities, the reapers in crowds crossed 
the boundaries and joined the papal army. Money daz- 
zled them. In vain the Diet, assembled at Zurich 
August lYth, forbade the taking of any money or pen- 
sions from foreign princes. However fervent the wish, 
it accomplished no good. 

At this Diet also the Pope's legate, Ennius, ap- 
peared, and asked the question. Whether or not the 
Swiss would furnish the Pope with troops ? In vain 
Zwingh preached and warned the Swiss against the en-, 
listment. Ziirich alone gave 2700 more men, and the 
Pope continued to flatter, thus securing 11, TOO addi- 
tional men. All the districts except Ziirich forbade on 
pain of death this running to the Pope, but could not by 
such decrees hinder many citizens from secretly ofl:ering 
their services to the Cardinal, who promised them almost 
double pay. On le§,rning that the Cardinal was leading 
the troops to France, Switzerland quickly checked him. 
The troops were require^ to take an oath not to fight 
against their brethren. The Pope was m6re powerful 
than the oath. Having reached Italy, the soldiers were 
released from the obligation of their oath, and the Pope 
succeeded in taking Milan without a battle. This, how- 
ever, produced only temporary joy. Parma and Pia- 
cenza were occupied by the Zurichers. The Pope died. 
The two cities were transferred to the Ziirichers as secu- 
rity for arrears of pay, and, in case of non-payment, the 
cities were to belong to them. The Ziirich troops were 
called home. France obtained sympathy ; the party of 
the Pope, opposition. During the vacancy of the papal 
chair, Ennius, in the name of the College of Cardinals, 
desired that Switzerland should dissolve its alliance with 
France, and join the alliance of the Pope and Emperor 
for the defence of Milan, and furnish 10,000 soldiers 



58 THE LIFE OF ULRIC ZWINGLT. 

for the purpose. Both requests were declined. On the 
contrary, France now received 16,000 men, of -whom 
3000 never returned, but were buried in Bicocca. 
This loss of life produced aversion to foreign pensions, 
and induced Zug to renounce foreign service for 
twenty-five years. In January, 1522, Adrian VI. was 
elevated to the papal throne, and his election was an- 
nounced to the Swiss. He proposed an alliance to 
Ziirich. In vain. Adrian died the same year, and was 
succeeded, in 1523, by Clemens VII. He at once 
began greatly to extol the Ziirichers for the faithful ser- 
vices they had constantly rendered the Papal See, 
offered excuses for the non-payment of the pensions 
during several years past, and promised to cancel the 
debt if the Ziirichers would conform to the religion of 
the other cantons. But the money was never forth- 
coming. In 1524, therefore, Ziirich sent two dis- 
tinguished men to Kome, Treasurer Jacob Werdmueller 
and John Rudolph Lavater. The former kissed the 
Pope's slipper. Lavater, on the contrary, refused to 
come nearer to the Pope, saying : " I am sorry that I 
must be so near yon." Clemens received the two 
deputies very ungraciously, accused them of heresy, de- 
manded that they should desist from it and exterminate 
it from their country. The request was not granted,. 
Thereupon the Ziirichers went to Constance, but here 
too they were refused. 

In the same year, 1524, the Confederates granted 
four levies of troops to France, with which France re- 
covered Milan without a battle. Ziirich continued to 
demand the pension arrears, but in vain. Joachim am 
Griit was sent to Rome in October, but was informed that 
no payment would be made unless Ziirich returned to 
the bosom of the Church. Am Griit proved a traitor. 



ZWINGLl'S CONNECTION WITH HOME — SAD RESULTS. 69 

He returned from Rorne and showered a flood of accu- 
sations against the Reformation that had been began. 
The Pope had hini.self sent a letter to the Ziirichers, say- 
ing : " If you do not renounce your new, ungodly er- 
rors, how can we satisfy your demand for money, however 
just it may be, without violating the justice and fear of 
God, when we cannot even allow errorists to keep what 
they have inherited from their parents f ' Zurich replied, 
but all its representations availed nothing. The Papal 
Court was pleased to see the enemies of the faith involved 
in perplexity. It did not wish to help them out of their 
embarrassment. To restore domestic peace, Ziirich was 
compelled, after the unfortunate battle of Kappel, to 
appear so submissive as to seem to confirm the report, 
designedly circulated, that Zurich would again introduce 
the mass. 

To deprive their enemies of this hope and the friends 
of the Gospel of their fear, the Coimcil of Zurich pub- 
lished a declaration, in which the liberty heretofore ac- 
corded to go to, mass was withdraw!!. It gave the assur- 
ance that they would adhere to the received truth, in 
spite of the mishaps that had befallen them, and that 
they would no longer permit mass to be said in any part 
of their territory. This binding declaration, which the 
friends of the Gospel made known everywhere, even in 
the Diet assembled at Regensberg, so excited the legate 
Ennius, whom the Pope had again ordered to Switzer- 
land, that he made every possible efEort to bring Zwin- 
gli's faithful helpers, Leo Juda, and his successor in 
office, Bullinger, into discredit, and have them dismiss- 
ed, because by their sermons they again kindled the 
failing courage and zeal of the people. He employed all 
means to incite the cantons that remained Catholic 
against those that had become Reformed. 



60 THE LIFE OF ULRIC ZWINQLI. 

In the succeeding year, 1533, Clemens VII. formed 
an alliance with the Catholic States — Luzerne, Uri, 
Schwyz, Unterwalden, Zug, and Freiberg — against the 
Reformed cantons. Ziirich demanded the dissolution 
of this alliance because it was in conflict with the Con- 
federate covenants, and because Ziirich itself had 
recently declined an alliance with France prejudicial to 
the Pope. Ennius promised to pay the debts of the 
Pope if Zurich would come back. But Zurich preferred 
to let its demands on the Pope go, and to remain 
faithful to the Reformation. This forever divided 
Switzerland into Reformed and Catholic cantons. Such 
was the end and such were the sad results of the alliance 
of Ziirich and the now Reformed cantons with Rome. 
At that time Rome had already adopted the principle, 
afterward loudly proclaimed, that ' ' no faith is to be, kept 
with heretics," which assisted the Reformation far more 
than Rome itself suspected, and enkindled in all right- 
minded persons a holy indignation against this proced- 
ure. A reformation' could no longer fail to come. 



CHAPTEE VIII. 

OTHER PEEPAEATOEY CIECUMSTAUCES. 

If the ancient Swiss had two hundred years before en- 
gaged in war, it was to maintain their freedom and inde- 
pendence. Now, on the contrary, wars were waged for 
money and glory. The imhappy results of the Italian 
wars contributed greatly to secure an entrance for the 
teachings of the Swiss Reformers. With undaunted 
courage they held up these results before the eyes of the 
Confederates. These representations made a deep im- 
pression upon all districts where self-interest had not yet 
blinded the mind of the great in regard to the welfare of 
the Fatherland. It was remarkable how the mania of 
the Swiss to enter foreign military service destroyed the 
foundations of all civil and moral order, the obedience 
of subjects to the command of the government, the 
obedience of children to parents, the peace of families, 
the general welfare, and private and public education, 
producing disagreement between citizens and members 
of the Confederacy, rebellion, depopulation, neglect of 
agriculture, luxury, poverty, and beggary. The viola- 
tion by the great and rich of the prohibitions concerning 
pensions, presents, and foreign enlistments accustomed 
the common people to the disregard of the laws. If a 
son was not indulged in every whim, he at once ran off 
to war ! How sadly this habit must have weakened the 
bond of love between parents and children, and brothers 
and sisters, and especially when such a runaway son re- 



62 THE LIFE OF ULEIC ZWINGLI. 

turned home as an old soldier, a good-for-nothing fel- 
low unused to work, his only possessions some foreign 
curses — disease and shameless presumption. The disso- 
lute husband and father, too lazy to work, too proud to 
beg, if his wife failed to please him in all things, or was 
no longer beautiful, deserted wife and children and went 
to war ! People complained bitterly that the untrained 
children, deprived of their fathers, grew up without 
proper discipline, in filth and poverty, becoming a bur- 
den to their relatives ; and even if the father was not 
killed in war, they received no support from him during 
his absence, as he needed all his earnings for himself ; 
and when he returned home, they learned from his ex- 
ample only curses, scolding, idleness, carousing and 
gambling, stealing and begging. 

The factions of the Pope and the French, who had 
their adherents in each canton, designedly disturbed the 
peace between the citizens as well as cantons, and occa- 
sioned frequently most saddening scenes in meetings of 
the Diet and Council. Such a sight occurred at Berne in 
1520. When color-bearer Casper Wyler, who had ob- 
tained this honor in 1488, suddenly died of paralysis in 
tte Council, the French party, led by color-bearer Bene- 
dict of Weingarten, attacked the honor of this iipright 
man. He had remained unshaken in his fidelity to the 
imperial and papal party, and h-ad frequently accused 
them of receiving French money ; they now retaliated 
by charging that he had himself received 28,400 francs 
from the Pope. They insisted upon it that his remains 
should be removed from the minster and thrown on the 
carrion field ! The dishonor was not committed, but 
his heirs were compelled to pay the sum named into the 
state treasury, until they could prove that he had not 
received the money, for himself. Party spirit caused 



OTHER PEEPAKATOKY CIRCUMSTANCES. 63 

still greatei- mischief at Freiburg, where in 1511 Mayor 
Franz Arsent was beheaded at the instigation of the 
Austrian party. Similar results appeared in Zug. 
Ziirich itself, because it refused to join the other can- 
tons in their alliance with France, but sided with the 
Pope, drew down upon itself the hatred of nearly all the 
other states. 

It is indeed true that these wars brought vast sums of 
money into Switzerland. Milan atoned for its incon- 
stancy, after the battle of Navarra, by paying 200,000 
ducats. Francis I. sent 4,800,000 francs to Berne ; at 
Freiburg his ambassador poured out a heap of golden 
crowns on the pavement to display the wealth and lib- 
erality of his king ; his treasurer showed ]the Swiss that 
they had received, during nineteen years, exclusive of 
the pay of the troops, in pensions and presents alone, 
23,110,840 francs. To this must be added the booty 
obtained. A single Swiss tailor-apprentice once seized 
two bags of money, each containing 6000 crowns, or 
J20,000 francs. In this way, however, but few became 
rich. " The rest are poor, ragged fellows ; if some 
escape alive, they lounge around, bent, lame, and useless, 
a burden to their parents. The king cares nothing 
about it." Those who returned empty-handed hated 
their more fortunate brethren, and these provoked the 
anger of the poorer ones so much that harmony and 
feeling for the mutual good grew ever rarer. Some of 
those who had enriched themselves with this money 
were again reduced to poverty by the -increasing luxury 
in clothing and display. The friends of primitive sim- 
plicity of manners complained loudly that tlie returned 
ofBcers introduced into the cities and cantons foreign 
fashions in clothing, costly furniture, and expensive food 
and drink. The pomp of the Spanish, the changing 



C4 THE LIFE OF ULRIC ZWINGLI. 

fashions of the French and Italian embroidery, prevailed 
more and more. People recognized the Swiss no longer. 
To check the evil Berne imposed a fine of five francs for 
the cutting of clothing in such a way as to show the silk 
lining through it. Jacob von Stein, surnamed " the 
Small,' ' from the Canton Berne, a returned soldier, soon . 
involved himself, by display of costly kheebarids, in 
debts which he could not pay. Lombardy neck and 
shirt collars of finest quality, Spanish caps, hats, and 
other head-coverings of velvet ; gay-colored shoes, such 
as barely concealed the toes, and yet costing twice as 
much as those usually worn in the country ; long pon- 
iards, Italian swords, expensively gilded daggers, cut and 
frizzled hair and beards, constituted the dress and adorn- 
ments of the men trained in foreign lands. The women 
too received from abroad cloaks with capes, Milanese 
embroidery on head- cloths, hoods, sleeves, and aprons, 
which were far more expensive than the material of 
which they were made. This love of splendor begot in 
the once proud Swiss people a despicable beggar-spirit,' 
not only in the men but also in the women, and even 
in the maturer youth. The French commissioners 
especially stimulated it by presents. They provided 
meals at the hotels for the country people that came into 
the cities. In Luzerne they paid at one time for 800, 
and at Berne for 1100 guests. The ancient love of 
honor soon became lost, and many who in their youth 
would have been ashamed to allow others to feed them, 
crowded themselves, without hesitation, to these disrepu- 
table drinking banquets. 

The loss of men, and indeed of the most vigorous 
youths, which the Italian wars occasioned, is almost in- 
credible. Thus, of the 8000 Confederates who went on 
the ..Neapolitan expedition, . only 1600 returned home,. 



OTHER PBEPABATOEY CIBCUMSTA1CCE3. 65 

tDut died soon after their arrival. About 5000 men in 
French pay were lost in the wars of Lombardy. The 
battle of Marignano alone cost 5000 men. The battle 
of Bicocca consumed 3000 men. Besides these, many- 
thousands lost their lives by starvation and pestilence. 
This dread depopulation and the inclination to an idle 
life withdrew so many hands from agriculture that the 
once beautiful fields lay uncultivated and overgrown 
with weeds and forests. In the year 1513 there even 
arose rebellions in Berne, Solothurn, and Luzerne. The 
unhappy campaigns of foreign rulers, who- drew their 
troops from the Swiss, and the factions which were in- 
cited among the people by the agents of these rulers, 
brought the country to the verge of ruin. The adher- 
ents of France opposed the party of the Pope and Em- 
peror. These latter opposed the former. Between the 
two lay poor Switzerland^ plucked and impoverished by 
both. On all hands arose disturbances and insurrections. 
In Canton Berne 300 farmers arose, went to the city of 
Berne, and challenged the French instigators, who ceased 
not in their own interest to scatter money among the 
people. They were especially exasperated against Con- 
rad Glaser, the treasurer, who used to throw the money to 
the people. Not finding him, as he had escaped,- they 
seized the cellar and took by storm the house of the 
veteran color-bearer, Casper Hetzel, of Lindach. But he 
was absent. One may imagine how the enraged farmers 
acted in going from the cellar through the house. The 
whole city was thrown into fear on account of these 
country assailants. Peter Dettlinger, the color-bearer, 
whose duty it was to hinder their entrance, narrowly 
escaped with his life. The old Mayor, Wilhelm von 
Dieszbach, only prevented the plundering of his house 
by the use of wine and kind words. The Oljgrlanders 



66 THE LIFE OF ULRIC ZWINQLl, 

{i.e. those from the uplands) also had come as far as 
Wabern, a mile and a half from the city, where messen- 
gers from the Ilasli valley pacified them. The Mayor 
of Wattenwyl ordered the gates to be closed and the 
alarm bell to be rung. , The insurrection subsided 
here, but in other places it again broke out. In the 
Cantons Luzerne and Solothurn it continued an entire 
year, and demanded many victims. Foreign and domes- 
tic traitors alarmed the coulitry and disturbed the nation- 
al prosperity. Critical jiinctures and popular circum- 
stances of this sort called loudly for a man who, by his 
trust in God, by his courage and perseverance, was 
qualified to guide country and people, State and Church, 
into a new path. This man, by the providence of God, 
was given to Switzerland, and with it to all Christendom. 
And although, after leaving Einsiedeln, he was permitted 
to labor but thirteen years as the distinguished Keformer 
of his Fatherland, yet the condition of the people and 
times shed a clear light upon his reformatory efforts, 
both civil and religious, so that his work in the Swiss 
Reformation appears to have been truly marvelloiis and 
divine. 



CHAPTER IX. 



JTJIET BEGIlTNINGi 



In connection with the discords previously noticed, 
caused by papal and French intrigues, there was a griev- 
ous disintegration in the clerical rank. At one time, 
shortly before 1516, when all the deans of the Swiss 
rural chapter were assembled, scarcely three could be 
found among them who were versed in the Bible. The 
rest frankly admitted that they had not even read the 
whole of the New Testament. From this we can infer 
the character of the remaining priesthood. It was in a 
still worse condition. Of study there was nothing said. 
Playing and feasting were their principal employments. 
He who outwardly appeared to be more earnest was 
guilty of hypocrisy. Scholastic theology and papal law 
were perhaps read by a few. The greater part read only 
the Sermoiogos or spiritual Talkers, memorized the 
printed or written sermons of the monks, and rehearsed 
them to the people. Others, who were considered dis- 
tinguished preachers, mingled their theology with that 
of Aristotle, and preached from Thomas Aquinas, the 
celebrated preacher of the Dominican order in the fif- 
teenth century, who was called Doctor AngeHcus. 

The bishops did not concern themselves about the 
morals and studies of the common priests. They were 
better pleased if priests and people were often punish- 
able, because that increased their revenues. They were 
concerned only to collect their contributions from the 



68 THE LIFE OF ULEIC ZWINGLI. 

lower clergy, and if possible increase them. It is true 
the Confederates and their priests often opposed these 
usurpations of the bishops, but in vain. When the 
Confederates curbed the immorality of the higher and 
lower clergy, the Pope, because he wished neither to 
renounce his supremacy as chief shepherd nor lose the 
.friendship of the Swiss, granted, in the year 1522, the 
demanded power to punish clerical as well as lay crimi- 
nals by civil authority. Scarcely three weeks after the 
amval of the papal permission and its publication in 
Baden, the people of Berne beheaded a criminal belong- 
ing to the priests, named Schuffelhauser. This public 
punishment of the hitherto unrebuked vices of the 
priests gave those Swiss who differed from the Komish 
Church in articles of faith, the strong hope of a speedy 
change, and aroused their courage to overthrow the 
hated priesthood at an early day. Among these, the 
people of Ziirich were not the last. The vicar-general 
Faber, in a letter written to a friend, calls them a people 
who will not allow themselves to be trifled with. Faber 
had experienced this. The canons, in common with the 
Council, in the Christian order which th§y adopted 
September 29th, 1523, openly acknowledged : " They 
felt and found that the common man, rich and poor, 
who supported the clergy with his bitter toil, with rent- 
als and tithes, was not pleased, but greatly displeased by 
the abuses." And further on : " When all kinds of 
disturbances arose, and the common man complained of 
being overburdened by the priests with tithes, fees, and 
other charges, the Provost and Chapter resolved to 
release their fellow church-members from these griev- 
ances. The press also rose up against this disorder. In 
the city hbrary of Ziirich there may still be found a 
wood engraving, in which Moses, Paul, Peter, and the 



QUIET BEGINiflNGS. 69 

four Evangelists are represented as lumters, who chase 
into a net different animals, clothed in mitres and sheep- 
skins. Among these sits Isaiah. This is the inscrip- 
tion : 

" That there is so much treachery in the land, 

Is owing to the wolves in clerical dress. 

And the sheep also run wild ; 

Therefore follows a divine punishment." 

The prosperous printing-press in Switzerland now 
began to work for the good cause, and by colporteurs 
vigorously spread its publications abroad. In 1519, 
Ghristopher Froschauer, a Bavarian, appeared in Zurich 
and foimded a publication house which afterward 
printed all the writings of the Swiss reformers. The 
same was done in Basel, and later in Geneva. "With in- 
credible rapidity, Zwingli's writings, and therewith the 
Reformed doctrine, appeared in Italy, France, Spain, 
Southern Germany, even in Saxony and England. The 
people everywhere eagerly bought and read them — a 
proof that the reformation of the Church was not the 
work of several men, but that the people desired it. 
"Without this, our fathers would have preached in vain, 
and the publishers could not have scattered the writings 
of the Reformation so successfully. 

Certainly there must have been men in Switzerland 
who, by education and good character, were competent to 
maintain the light of illumination, to lead the people, 
and procure for its "dissatisfaction a hearing. When 
Providence has determined to confer upon the world a 
benefit, the incidental circumstances are found as 
though they had been prepared. Rome had boasted 
that Switzerland had no man who could resist her. But 
Switzerland's Romish enemies soon and very disagree- 
ably discovered that it ensnared itself in its preconceived 



70 THE LIFE OF ULEIC ZWIKGLI. 

opinion. Switzerland had excellent men who in quiet 
seclusion received their iirsfc culture, whom God trained 
■np and then called to appear in public. Besides Ulric 
Zwingli, who, on account of his learning, had as a mere 
youth received the degree of Doctor of Divinity, the 
following appear to advantage : Henry Loristior Glarean, 
four years younger than Zwingli ; Michael Rubellus ; 
John Zimmermann, canon of the Chapter of Leodoga- 
rius at Luzerne and at Munster, in Argau ; Rudolph 
Collin or Am -Bruehl, of Grundeliingen,'in the Canton of 
Luzerne; Oswald Myconius, four years younger, also from 
Luzerne ; John Mueller, of Rellikon, Canton of Ziirich, 
near Greifensee ; Jacob Wiesend anger ; Melchior Malc- 
rinus, of Solothurn ; George Staehli, of Golganen, Can- 
ton of Schwyz ; Werner Steiner, of Zug ; Henry Luetti, 
of Wadenschwy], Canton of Ziirich ; Benedict Burgauer ; 
John Dorfmann, who labored especially in Ehsetia 5 
Erasmus Schmid, of Stein on the Rhine ; Sebastian 
Wagner, of Schaffhausen ; John Haller, of Wyl, in 
Canton Thurgau. 

Foreign yoking men immediately united with these 
Swiss, who co-operated in the work of the Swiss Refor- 
mation. Among the many, only the following are enu- 
merated : John Oekolampadius, of Weinsberg, in France ; 
W. F. Capito, of Hagenau, Alsace ; Casper Hedio, of 
Ettlingen, in Baden ; Conrad Pellican, of Alsace ; Leo 
Juda ; Sebastian Muenster, of Ingelheim, in the Palatin- 
ate ; Simon Grynaus, of Vehringen, in the Palatinate ; 
Martin Keller, of Stuttgart ; Beat Rhemaus, of Schlett- 
stadt ; Ambrose Blarer, of Constance ; Berthold Haller, 
of Aldingen, in the Province of Rothweel ; Sebastian 
Meier, of Neuenburg ; William Farrell, of Gap, France. 

To add more and equally prominent names to these 
Swiss and foreign ones is unnecessary, because those 



QUIET BEGINNINGS. 71 

already mentioned abundantly prove tliat a general de- 
sire for a better state of affairs had arisen in eastern and 
northern Switzerland and in the adjoining French and 
German provinces, which could not possibly fail to pro- 
duce great consequences. That western and southern 
Switzerland took so little interest in it is owing to the 
fact that these parts of the country had no schools of a 
high grade, like the universities at Basel, Tiibingen,^ 
Freiberg in Breisgau, and Heidelberg, and did not stand 
in connection with them, like Ziirich, which became the 
focus of the Eeformation in Switzerland, because here 
for years a greater freedom of thought had prepared the 
people to receive the tmth. 

Bat why did this greater freedom of- thought among 
the people of Ziirich, which they had already manifested 
in former times, produce hitherto no Reformation ? 
Why did this newly en"kindled love for the sciences 
arouse neither in Ziirich, nor in Basel, nor in any other 
city of Switzerland, a man who would undertake and 
finish what thousands had long since- thought, wished, 
and foretold ? Why did all stop with thinking, wishing, 
and foretelling ? Because no one had the spirit, courage, 
and firmness to begin and complete the immense work. 
None of those enumerated, though they were otherwise 
excellent men, had the power which alone produces the 
call, and the will to live for a great and noble work. 
This power will not allow him who is conscious of it to 
turn back in his path, but, regardless of everything, 
he looks simply to the goal, and presses incessantly toward 
it — and, though he fall this side of it, yet he closes his 
eyes with the firm assurance that the w^ork can and must 
be completed. Not one of them was calculated to standi 
at the head ; but as associates of the man whose heart 1 
and courage placed him there, they were all indispensa- 1 



Y^ THE LIFE OF ULEIO ZWINGLI. 

ble. "Without a leader tliey would not have com- 
menced, or being weary would have desisted ; without 
them he could not have completed it. In the Swiss Kef- 
ormation they constitute a large circle, with Zwiugli in 
the centre. 



CHAPTEE X. 

FROM EINSIEDELN^ TO ZUEICH. 

After laboring two years in Einsiedeln, Dr. Ulrie 
Zwingli came to Zurich December 2Tth, 1518. He was 
immediately ordered to appear before the Provost and 
Chapter. After greeting them, he stated that he formed 
a resolution, and would carry it out, not to preach on the 
Pericopes, but explain the Gospel of St. Matthew in 
order, and in so doing confine himself to the Holy 
Scriptures and not to human doctrines. Some of the . 
canons present expressed their joy at this ; others cen- 
sured it as an innovation. But Zwingli proved to them, 
from the sermons of Augustine and Chrysostom, that 
this was the old custom, and that the discourses on the 
evangelical Pericopes had been firet introduced by Char- 
lemagne. 

This satisfied them for the present. Before, how- 
ever, publicly entering on his office, he, on Friday, 
December 31st, wrote to the Council of Glarus that as 
the time of two years which they had granted him for 
his return to his pastorate in Glarus, had now expired, he 
would return the ofEer, with thanks for their kind inten- 
tion, into the hands of his lords. On that Friday he 
also closed the thirty-fifth year of his life. Next morn- 
ing, Saturday, January 1st, 1519, he publicly entered on 
his duties in Ziirich, and preached a sermon in whicli he 
announced that the next day, Sunday, January 2d, he 
would begin to explain the Gospel of St. Matthew. 



74 THE LIFB OF ULRIC ZWINGLI. 

This was attended by a large concourse of people — prais- 
ing God and referring to Christ as the only source of sal- 
vation. 

At the same time he admonished them to cultivate 
Christian love and lead a godly life, to avoid super- 
stition in doctrine and public worship, idleness, intem- 
perance, pride of dress, and by a true amendment of life 
to become worthy of the grace of God. He also spoke 
earnestly against the oppression of the poor, against war- 
like expeditions, and pensions. He recommended to the 
Council the administration of justice, the care of widows 
and orphans, the maintenance of Swiss liberty, and that 
they should refuse the demands of foreign princes. 
This was a good and timely introductory sermon. In 
the most honorable light it shows us the entire man, 
who had come to make Ziirich great. This inauguru] 
sermon did not please some persons, who said that by- 
such sermons Zwingli would create great disturbance in 
Ziirich ; others praised God that He had given them 
such a fearless preacher. 

Two respected men — Henry Eauchli, the president and 
treasurer of the Council, a diligent reader of the Bible, an 
enemy of superstition and of the disorderly clergy, who 
once declared that the most pious man in atteudance was 
burned during a meeting of the Council in Constance ; 
and Henry Fuessli, the inspector of the armory, compiler 
of a Confederate record which reaches to the year 1519 — 
had heretofore declared that they did not wish to hear 
another sermon from a priest. But when they learned 
Zwingli's intention, they were anxious to hear him. Soon 
after this introductory sermon they praised God and said, 
" This is a preacher of the truth, who is not afraid to 
epeak^-who will be our Moses and lead us out of Egypt. " 

The greater the crowd to hear Zwingli's germojis, and 



FROM EIK8IEDBLK TO ZURICH. 75 

tlie greater tLe approval whicli tliey found, especially 
among the common people, the less did those who were 
originally dissatisfied trust to express their disapproba- 
tion beyond their own circle. When, however, they 
gradually discovered that not every one who heard 
Zwingli agreed with him, they hesitated no longer to 
speak frankly, at least to these people, and emboldened 
by their approval to come forward with complaints and 
charges. Zwingli had expected this, and did not allow 
himself to be misled, while his friends admonished him 
to be firm, as though he needed such admonitions. 
Scarcely an hour passed that was not improved by 
wordly and religious men to lay snares to hold secret 
meetings and arouse enemies against the defender of 
right and truth. 

But he came to Zurich with the settled conviction 
that tribulations awaited him there. Among the monks 
he found hjs first and bitterest opponents. Glarean 
wrote to Zwingli from Paris, June 7th, 1519 : " 1 
hear that you have trouble— I know not of -what sort 
— ^with the monks : persons of whom you must be more 
afraid than of the poison of snakes. They can injure 
you, and will benefit but little. I am concerned for 
you." Khenan wrote to him. May Tth, 1519, from 
Basel : "Our Simon told me verbally that you still con- 
tinue to preach true Ohristianity, which, partly by open 
wickedness and partly by seductive superstition, was mis- 
represented in the most unworthy manner, not only here, 
but in all places. Notwithstanding that some oppose — 
because the good always excites envy — still hitherto 
nothing could move you to lose sight of the goal 
toward which you incessantly press. I admire your de- 
termination, which presents to us a man of the times of 
the apostles. Some contradict, ridicule, threaten, and 



76 THE LIFE OF ULEIC ZWINGLI. 

slander you ; but you bear all witli true Christian 
composure. Continue, dear Zwingli, to pursue a right 
course ; he who would win corrupt men for Christ must 
allow a great deal to pass unnoticed. Our Lord also 
drew the Jews to Himself by blessings, not by re- 
proaches." "I praise you," he wrote on the 24:th of 
the same month, " that vou have commenced such a 
good work with prudence ; but you deserve still more 
praise that you proceed steadily, and do not allow your- 
self to be detained a moment by those who are grieved 
that piety revives again, and that the pure doctrine of 
Jesus is preached to the people." 

These good testimonies show how earnestly Zwingh 
labored to lead souls to Jesus, and be for every one what 
he needed, and thus strengthen a later declaration : "In 
the storms of v/inter no field is ploughed or sowed. 
Spring is the proper time. In the beginning I made 
great concessions to the weak ; nevertheless aiU I pro- 
claimed and all I withheld was done unto edification. I 
did not wish to impart strong food at the wrong time, nor 
cast pearls before swine. I plainly proclaimed and stead- 
fastly taught that Jesus Christ . is the true salvation, and 
that we must expect all from Him, and look to Him in 
time of trouble. I announced to men the kindly grace of 
God, and made it lovely for them, since I knew what 
God will accomplish by His word. Many who in the 
beginning were opposed to me, thereby gradually dis- 
covered how good the Lord is, and that every one who 
rightly learns to know Him can exclaim with the dis- 
ciples : ' Lord, to whom shall we go ? Thou hast the 
words of life ! 1 have apprehended thee, 1 will never 
more leave thee.' " 

After Zwingli, according to his previous announce- 
ment, had explained St. Matthew's Gospel and acquaint- 



FROM ElKSIEDELK TO ZURICH. 7? 

ed his hearers with the doctrine, works, and life of 
Jesus, he showed them, from the Acts of the Apostles, 
how Christianity was planted. Afterward he taught 
them, from the first Epistle to Timothy, their duties ; 
from the Epistle to the Galatians, the pure, genuine faith 
of the early Christians ; from the Second Epistle to 
Timothy, the duty of Christian ministers to resist false 
doctrines, to preserve and extend the Gospel in its pu- 
rity. Inasmuch, however, as some of his opponents 
highly exalted Peter above Paul, and contended against 
the worthiness of Paul with all kinds of sophisms, he 
proved, from the Epistles of Peter, their mutual agree- 
ment ; and finally, from the Epistle to the Hebrews^ 
that Christ, by the sacrifice of His life, had rendered, all 
other sacrifices superfluous and abolished them. Pie 
finished the exposition of these books of the New Testa- 
ment in the sermons he preached on the Sundays of the 
first four years. 

Besides this, he began, in December, 1520, to 
explain the Psalms to the farmers who attended the 
weekly market in the city on Fridays, and prepared 
himself for this by diligently studying the Hebrew 
language. He was of the opinion that a fundamental 
knowledge of the Christian doctrines, derived from the 
Holy Scriptures, must precede the removal of abuses in 
religion, then they would disappear of their own accord ; 
and the result unexpectedly showed that he had not been 
deceived in this expectation. The simple and yet earnest 
manner in which Zwingli was accugtomed to explain tha 
Word of God appears instructively from the following 
lines taken from a sermon in the year 1519 ; " If wo 
consider all men, we will certainly find that in the whole 
multitude no one is so completely righteous that he could 
satisfy the justice of God in Himself. Since we are all 



78 THE LIFE OS ULEIO ZWINGLI. 

affected by the same infirmities and the same disease, we 
can never satisfy God, because we are all debtors and 
criminals, and therefore punishable. Out of the depths 
of His wisdom God regarded our misery and determined 
to repair our loss. When He found none among us who 
could satisfy His justice for Himself and others, He or- 
dained His Son to be a propitiation for our sins, that He, 
since He is true man and our brother, may be our right- 
eousness, and the procuring cause of our pardon before 
God forever ; because He, being just, took upon Him all 
our guilt and expiated it before God. Behold, what a 
merciful act of God — a friendly, joyful message — a sure 
guidance of the disconsolate soul, that it has found Him 
by whom it was reconciled to God, by whom it could at 
all times have access to God. * 



CHAPTER XI. 

QEEAT EEPUTATIOM' XS SWITZEELAND AND ABEOAD. 

HiTHEETo ZwiDgli had not openly assailed the Pope. 
Bat the certain prospect that Berhard Sampson would 
soon come to Ziirich with his indulgences, compelled him, 
after he had entered upon his office, earnestly to warn 
the people of the city from the pulpit, and to show 
them that salvation was obtained for us by the death of 
Christ, and that faith in Him, not money, is the means 
to obtain it. Sampson had gathered great treasures in 
Berne. Poor and rich crowded around him. The 
former bought the cheaper indulgences on paper for two 
" batzen" (about twenty cents), the latter the dearer, on 
parchment, for a " crown" (about five dollars). An in- 
dulgence for a whole city and district was sold still 
dearer. Jacob von Stein, Lord of Belp and TJtzingen, 
who was captain of a company of 500 men in the papal 
service, bought with a dapple-gray stallion full forgive- 
ness of sins for himself and his ancestors, for his sol- 
diers, and for the people under his authority at Belp. 
The inhabitants of the village of Aarberg, who for several 
years had suflEered losses by fire and water, and who 
ascribed them to the anathema of a papal messenger, 
whom they had insulted, obtained through the mediation 
of the government, for cash, absolution for the dead and 
the living, which, however, did not produce the desired 
effect. 

On the way to Zurich, Sampson had reached Lenz- 



80 THE LIFE OP ULRIC ZWINGLL 

burg, but was not received, and hastened on to Baden, 
That lie might not also be repulsed here, he boasted to 
the resident clergyman of the honors which he had 
received from the authorities at Baden, at Luzerne, at 
Berne, and at other places. This so moved the good 
man that, contrary to the command of the bishop, he 
allowed the monk to sell the indulgences. Sampson, by 
the audacity with which he promised the foolish people 
the deliverance of souls from purgatory, gave occasion 
for a jest, which was calculated to rob the indulgences 
of their credit. He exposed his wares in the church- 
yard, exclaiming, with the sale of every piece of paper, 
Ecce volcmt ! (See how the souls fly !). A wag who was 
present hastened into the church steeple, and through a 
window in the belfry emptied the feathers out of a pillow 
upon the people, exclaiming likewise, Ecce volant ! Ecce 
volant ! Sampson took this jest, which created great 
laughteT, very much amiss, and came near avenging it. 
From here he went to Breragarten. But Henry Bul- 
linger, the pastor and dean, resisted him courageously. 
" And should it cost me my life, 1 will not open my 
church for you, ' ' was BuUinger's answer. In the most 
violent passion the monk called him a brute, placed him 
under the heaviest ban and swoBe not to release him 
again till he paid three hundred ducats for his unlieard- 
of impudence in refusing to allow the sale of indul- 
gences. Bullinger received the anathema very coolly. 
Sampson, however, took the matter more seriously. " I 
will soon get to Ziirieh, you insolent brute," cried the 
monk to Bullinger, " and will accuse you before the 
Confederates. Such an insult was nowhere offered to 
me in all Switzerland. " The dean replied : " I can ap- 
pear before the Confederates as well as you, and will 
certainly not remain away." 



REPUTATION IN 8WITZBKLAND AND ABROAD. 81 

The reputation of Zwingli meanwliile continually in- 
creased. His sermons had already accomplished so 
much that the people everywhere began to see the 
Eomish knavery practised with these indulgences. With 
hearty thanks to God, he was allowed to see and hear 
how the work of the Lord prospered in his hands. His 
sermons touched the people in city and country. His 
name resoimded far and wide. He laid great stress iipon 
pastoral work. That great multitudes heard his ser- 
mons did not satisfy him. He endeavored, by the help 
of God, to establish the assurance also in individuals, 
whenever he could reach them, that the doctrine of the 
cross was specially designed for every one of them. His 
particular care appears from a letter written to Myconi- 
us, at the end of 1519, in which he says he had already 
more than 2000 souls, who were so far nourished and 
strengthened by the milk of the Gospel that they now 
desired stronger food, which he with good confidence 
could give them. So much the more courageously could 
he proceed and expose the traffic in indulgences, because 
just at that time, when Sampson was nearing Ziirich, 
the deputies of the Bishop of Constance, who should 
bring charges against Sampson before the Diet, were 
sojourning in the city. 

At the end of February Sampson arrived at Ziirich. 
Bullinger had preceded Sampson, and had already 
entered complaint against him before the Confederate 
Diet. The deputies of the bishop, to whom he related 
the whole matter, and his numerous friends among the 
great men at Ziirich, as well as the delegates of the 
remaining cantons, supported him powerfully. 

The Council resolved to deny Sampson permission 
to enter the city. In the Suburbs, where he had 
alighted at an inn, a messenger of the Diet hauded him 



82 THB LirB or tjlkic zwin-gli, 

tlie resolution of the Cotincil. Under the pretence that 
he had something to eay to the Diet in the name of his 
Lord, he was nevertheless allowed to enter. He was 
compelled to remove the ban from the dean (Bullinger) 
gratuitously, and then allowed to depart in peace, after 
having been strictly forbidden to sell his wares. Full of 
indignation, he departed with the money which he had 
hastily gathered. The Pope liimseK was compelled to 
recall him to Rome. Zwingli's influence was known 
even in Rome, and previously had been quietly tolerated. 
It is true Sampson, even before he had come to Ziirich, 
openly declared that ZwingU would oppose him, but he 
(Sampson) would shut his mouth. Consequently it 
might have been expected to see him mentioned in the 
papal index as a deceiver of the people. But it con- 
tained not even the least reference to his name. Evi- 
dently the resolutions of the Diet had startled the Pope. 
He could not as yet calculate upon the assistance of the 
npper classes in Switzerland, who, it is true, soon united 
with the monks to suppress Zwingli and his doctrine, in 
case he should succeed with his far-reaching propositions 
of reform. 

Zwingli's influence, which had already been ac- 
quired, must have been certainly known in Rome, 
since he had the courage to discuss the sale of indul- 
gences with the papal legate, Anton Pucci. In vain the 
legate endeavored to persuade him to be silent ; in vain 
were the brilliant promises he gave Zwingli. He told 
the prelate boldly, if he and other superiors of the Pope 
would not do their duty, nothing should deter him from 
working with all the strength which God would grant, 
for the removal of superstition and imposition, till light 
should have triumphed over darkness. He also sent by 
the deputies of the Pope a letter to the Bishop of Con- 



REPUTATION IN SWITZEBLAND AND ABKOAD. 83 

gtance, in wliicli he exhorted him courageously to oppose 
the impositions of the Pope, and assured him that the 
Word of God and the truth of the Gospel would cer- 
tainly maintain the mastery ; he requested him to pro- 
cure for the noble house of Laudenberg the honor that 
he would be the first among the bishops who accepted 
and promoted the purified doctrine of Christ. Bullinger 
says truthfully that Zwingli did not proceed inconsid- 
erately and against good order, but had properly warned, 
and first tested every other means before he began in 
full earnestness. 

These courageous steps increased the renown and 
respect which he had already gained to such a great 
degree in Einsiedeln, and carried them far beyond 
the borders of Switzerland. In Southern Germany, 
in Nuremberg, in Swabia, especially in Augsburg, 
he had a large circle of friends, who were united to 
him ; even from the interior of France the preachers of 
the Gospel turned to him and asked for advice and com- 
fort. The friends of the Keformation in Constance 
were so devoted" to him that they regarded those in 
Ziirich in many respects as their model. In Mayence, 
Hedio remembered their old friendship. Zwingli had 
gained many friends there by his writings, who eagerly 
read what he published, and hoped that the example of 
the friends in Zurich would kindle the zeal of the Ger- 
man cities. After a perusal of the first discussion at 
Ziirich, it became evident to Iledio and many others 
that truth is invincible, and falsehood weak. The de- 
luded, who will not see the bright light of the Gospel, 
deserve either pity or scorn. . There are also in his 
vicinity people who hate the Gospel, because it com- 
bats their passions. He encouraged Zwingli to labor on 
cheerfully, to raise the standard, to preach, to conceal 



84 THE XIFH OF ULBIC ZWIKGLI. 

nothing. The time has come when the mask must be 
pulled off from the ignorant and hypocritical. The 
lawyer, Nicholas Gerbellius, in Strasburg, had such great 
confidence in Zwingli's friendship and in the protection 
of the Zurichers, that he commended to him a perse- 
cuted friend who had renounced the !Romish supersti- 
tion and sought a safe abode, that he might support 
himself, wife, and children. Likewise John Sapidus re- 
quested Zwingli to receive a young scholar, whose love 
for evangelical truth constrained him to leave the Order 
of St. John. "Eeceive him in such a manner," Sapi- 
dus wrote, " that he will feel that he has been recom- 
mended as a Christian by a Christian to a Christian 
friend." 

Unknown persons also declared to Zwingli their 
great respect. Moved by his constantly increasing 
reputation, and very desirous speedily to obtain the ex- 
planation of the 67 Articles, Adam Weiss, clergyman at 
Ereilsheim, in France, who was very much pleased with 
the manner in which Zwingli had conquered Faber, 
wrote : " Happy are you, to live in such a country and 
among such people." William Nesenus, in Wittenberg, 
gives us the best testimony of Zwingli's great learning 
and excellent character. Among those who encouraged 
him to continue his course boldly and confidently, we 
find his former teacher. Dr. Wyttenbach, who was pas- 
tor in Biel since 1515. The favorable testimonies of a 
Capito, Hedio, Khenan, Glarean, and many others, are 
generally known. Even in those parts of Switzerland 
where he was soon afterward proscribed and execrated 
he enjoyed, in the first year of his ministry in Zurich, a 
respectful confidence. The clerk 'of the court at Uri, 
Jost Schmid, in a letter written August, 1519, thanked 
him most heartily for the great paina and labor and 



EEPUTATIOK IK SWITZERLAND AKD ABROAD. 85 

earnest diligence wMch he had bestowed upon him 
years ago at Basel, and commended his brother to him. 

Even in the temporal affairs of the city his public rep- 
utation asserted itself. When the Confederates, after 
the death of the Emperor Maximilian, in the beginning of 
the year 1519, allowed themselves to be persuaded by the 
Cardinal-bishop of Sitten, M. Schinner, to write in favor 
of the grandson of the deceased, ' to the Pope, who 
favored the King of France, Charles's competitor for 
the royal crown, and to the electors admonishing them 
not to disgrace and bring into danger the German nation, 
to which also the Swiss belonged, by the election of a 
foreign sovereign, Zwingli was of the opinion that 
Switzerland should not meddle with the election for an 
Emperor. They should favor neither of the two prin- 
ces, but care simply for their freedom, and not meddle 
too much with the empire. Charles, the Spaniard, was a 
young man, and might be inclined to govern the Ger- 
mans despotically. Charles the Fifth, as Emperor, would 
only aim to oppress the German nation and rob them of 
the divine word. He thought the Germans were not 
necessitated to bring an emperor from a distance and 
burden themselves with foreign authority. On this 
account he was also opposed to the King of France, 
whom many wished to make Emperor of Germany. 
And long after his death the result showed how correct 
his judgment was. The people of Ziirich resolved 
henceforth to resist foreign lords, and more and more 
withdrew their support from the Pope. Zwingli clearly 
convinced them that the Pope did not need their armies 
to defend the Church or the papal territory, but to 
make conquests. It was acknowledged to be true, what 
Zwingli said of the cardinals, who like plunderers 
bribed the people, bought them for popish purposes, and 



86 THE LIFB OF ULEIG ZWIS GU. 

then had them slaughtered in Woody conflicts. . "The 
cai'dinals," he said, "justly wear red hats and cloaks ; 
if you shake them, ducats fall out ; but if you wring 
them, the blood of the sons, the brothers, friends, and 
fathers runs out." 

In Schwyz the great respect which Zwingh everywhere 
enjoyed asserted itself in the most honorable marker in 
the resolution of the Kational Assembly, by which the 
canton for twenty-five years abstained from aU foreign 
leagues and pensions. He was not less concerned for the 
dehverance of the Swiss from foreign military service, 
than the deliverance of the Church from the yoke^ of the 
Pope, because, according to his conviction, the salvation 
of the Fatherland depended upon these two things. 
On the 21st of May, 1523, he sent the authorities of 
Canton Schwyz a letter, with the urgent request to 
beware of the foreign lords, and finally to free them- 
selves from all obligations to them. In his writing 
which precedes tbis exhortation, Zwingli says : the great 
love which he had for them from childhood compelled 
him to take this step, particularly since he, as a son of 
Toggenburg, was in duty bound to be attentive to them. 
He reminded them in the exhortation, that their fore- 
fathers had carried on war only for freedom, and not 
killed Christians for wages. Therefore God gave them 
the victory at Morgarten 1315, at Laupen 1339, at 
Sempach 1386, at ISTafels 1388, and at other places. 
Afterward they became arrogant and allowed them- 
selves to be deluded by the gold and flatteries of prinqes, 
to do and to care more for them than for home, wife, 
and children. They were misled by people who were 
concerned more for their possessions than for their 
Fatherland. Eut the greatest loss and the greatest dan- 
gers fell upon the public estate. These dangers he 



EEPTJTATION IN SWITZERLAirD ASTD ABROAD. 87 

describes in detail, and ennmerates among them the 
divine punishments with which the avarice and the in- 
humanity of the warrior are threatened in the Holy 
Scriptures (Micah 2, Isa. 5, Matt. 18, Ezek. 29, 
Jer. 51). Furthermore, the prevalence of injustice 
and deeds of violence, love of pomp and banqueting, of 
immorality and effeminacy, of envy and unfaithfulness 
toward the Fatherland finally ; the danger of losing free- 
dom either by enemies or friends among the foreign 
princes. In the same way he controverts what was said 
in favor of foreign military service, and gives them a 
solemn description of the calamities of war, and puts the 
question of conscience to the Confederates : what we 
would say if a foreign people rioted among us, like the 
Swiss did in the enemy's country. The great loss which 
the Confederates, especially the Canton of Schwyz, had 
suffered in the battle of Bicocca, impelled the great 
benefactor of the Fatherland to compose this letter. 
This noble deed bore immediate fruit. 



CHAPTEE XII. 

DANGEROUS ILLNESS. 

In the summer of 1519 a plague broke out in Zurich, 
of which 2500 persons died in less than six months. 
Zwingli escaped in the beginning, though he daiiy visit- 
ed those who were sick with the plague. Conrad Brun- 
ner, a friend, wrote to him from Basel in September : 
" However laudable his fidelity to his office might be, 
he should not forget that he must also take care of his 
own life." Alas, this warning came too late. Zwingli 
took sick in September, and was brought to the verge of 
the grave. Dr. Hedio, of Basel, wrote to him " " We 
were very sorrowful when that murderous pestilence 
seized you, for who would not mourn when the pros- 
perity of his Fatherland sinks down, when the trumpet 
of the Gospel, the courageous proclaim.er of the truth in 
the most flourishing, yea, the most hopeful age, is 
silenced?" The danger which threatened his life was 
so great that all hope was relinquished, and the report of 
his death spread in Switzerland and Germany. The 
monks rejoiced that the devil had fetched the heretic ; 
yet their rejoicing was soon silenced. 

During his sickness he composed three hymns, which 
are an evidence of his sincere piety, his childlike confi- 
dence, that, even if he should die, God would not let the 
work perish which he had commenced, and of humble 
submission to His will. The language of his heart is ex- 
cellent. Bullinger has preserved them in the history of 



DAJS'aEKOUS ILLJfESS. 



89 



the Befortnation. In the first hymn, which he com- 
posed in the beginning of his sickness, he asks God for 
His deliTerance, if it be His will ; if, however, He 
would let him die in the middle of life, he was resigned ; 
he was His creature, whom He could preserve or de- 
stroy^ The second hymn he wrote in the middle of his 
sickness, when it was most violent. The third hymn he 
wrote when he was convalescent. He rejoiced that he 
woul_i hereafter be able to labor in the service of God. 



BliGiirsrraa." 

liO ! at iny door 

Gaunt death I spy , 
Hear, Lord of life, 

Thy creature's cry. 

The arm that hung 
Upon the tree, 

Jesus, uplift. 
And rescue me. 

Yet, if to quench 
My sun at noon 
Be Thy behest, 
' Thy will be done ! 

In faith and hope, 
Earth I resign, 

Secure of heaven, 
for I am Thine. 



Fierce grow my pains ; 

Help, Lord, in haste ! 
For flesh and heart 

Are failing fast. 

Clouds wrap my sight. 
My tongue is dumb ; 

Lord, tarry not. 
The hour is come ! 



In Satan's grasp. 

On hell's dark brink. 
My spirit reels : 

Ah ! must I sink ? 

No, Jesus, no ! 

Him I defy, 
While here beneath 

Thy cross I lie. 



END. 

My father, God, 
Behold me whole ! 

Again on earth, 
A living soul ! 

Let sin no more 
My breast annoy, 

But fill it, Lord, 
With holy joy. 

Though now delayed. 
My hour must come. 

Involved, perchance, 
In deeper gloom. 

it matters not : 

Eejoioing yet, 
I'U bear my yoke 

To heaven's bright 



* From the English translation of Merle D'Aubigne's " History of 
the Beformation." The German of Zwingli has there been followed, 
and the original form and spirit of the podms well preserved. 



90 THE LIFE OF ULKIC ZWINGLI. 

Before the breaking out of the plague, Zwingli was at 
the mountaiu ravine, called Pfeffer's baths, near his 
home, and therefore familiar to him, where he sought to 
strengthen himseK for the conflict with the plague, which 
was advancing from the east. When he heard that 
the plague had advanced to Zurich, he hastened to his 
post in August, without calling to see his relative, Chris- 
topher, the Abbot of St. John, in Toggenberg, who had 
expected him. According to the example of the Good 
Shepherd, who giveth His life for the sheep, he, true to 
his preaching, appeared in the midst of his parishioners, 
and exposed himself daily to the danger of infection, by 
fearlessly visiting those sick of the plague and bringing 
them the consolations of the Gospel. This powerful 
man, who confided in God, was allowed to do his duty 
many weeks. 

While the plague raged still more frightfully in 
Zurich, and I'eached its highest stage of develop- 
ment about the middle of September, his friends from 
far and near looked with sympathy and astonishment 
upon the brave champion of God, warning and pleading 
that He would spare his precious life. He could and 
would not think of his own preservation, so the plague 
seized him too. Near unto death, he lifted his heart to 
God, and found comfort and peace in his Saviour. The 
three hymns quoted suffice to show us a Christian fully 
ripe, enlightened, and sustained by the spirit of the Gos- 
pel. He recovered, though very slowly. At the end of 
the year his health was so fully restored that on Decem- 
ber 31st he could write : " Yesterday I finally laid aside 
the last plaster of the plague-ulcer." By the grace of 
God he had been preserved from death ; therefore he was 
now the more determined to risk his life for the cause of 
the Lord. He kept his word. 



CHAPTEE Xril. 

TWO HOSTILE SCHEMES. 

ZwiNGLi had scarcely recovered from his sickness 
when his eneraies began to work against him openly. A 
monk journeyed to Basel to have four sermons printed 
against him for the suppression and refutation of the 
new doctrine. As heretofore, Zwingli desired to carry 
forward the work of the Reformation quietly and avoid 
an utterly useless controversy. Therefore he applied to 
Hedio, and requested him, in his name, to entreat Oardi- 
nal-bishop Schinner, of Sitten, who chanced to be just 
then at Basel with the Provost, Felix Frei, that he 
might prevent this publication. Upon the representa- 
tions of the provost, the cardinal obtained the desired 
interdiction from the bishop and Council at Basel. 
" The cardinal loves you," Hedio wrote to Zwingli, 
" and indeed honestly, for many reasons, but particu- 
larly because you preach the Gospel, and have the cour- 
age to tell the truth to people whose tender ears do not 
like to hear it. He remembered you on this occasion 
with great praise. Let therefore the outrageous con- 
duct of this monk not disturb yon ; proceed boldly, heed 
not this shameless fellow ; he himself has prepared the 
rod which will punish him. I know a painter who will 
depict this ravenous animsil in lively colors. Oapito will 
take care at Strasburg that the press there is not stained 
with the poison of his mouth." 

The Vicar-general, Faber, who could not remain 
ignorant of all this, still continued to be Zwingli's friend. 



93 THB LIFE OF TTLEIC ZWINGLI. 

December 18th, he declared to him in a letter his great 
joy for his recovery : "I love you so heartily and 
honestly that no greater sorrow could befall me than 
to be obliged to hear, which may God prevent, a mis- 
fortune happening unto you ; and on the other hand I 
can have no greater joy than when I hear you are well 
and happy. I think these sentiments toward you are in 
accordance with justice. For you labor so nnweariedly 
upon the work of the Lord that I am convinced the 
cause of Christianity would suffer no small loss if you 
should get into danger." 

From Luzerne Myconius ^wrote, December 28th, 
1519, to Zwingli : " Our friends here say that both 
of us alone are not able to support the religion of 
Christ ; we should therefore be quiet, because our work 
will be for the most part in vain. Again, our enemies 
say our doctrine is of the devil, not of God." Zwingli 
answered him : " You must learn more and liiore to re- 
spect yourself, that you do not become excited by such 
objections. How much such displeasure will injure 
you, 1 know from my own experience. Your answer 
receives my approval. Still I wish that these wilful 
people might be attracted more by kindness and yielding 
complaisance than carried away by violent strife. At 
Ziirich there are many people, more than 2000, to whom 
indeed I still give milk, but who, because they have a 
craving appetite, can soon bear strong food. I must con- 
tinually contend with malicious men, not because ray 
character comes into contact with theirs, but because 
they are bent upon persecuting Christ and the Gospel. 
I am very much eonperned for the peace and the Father-' 
land, although my hope is constantly strengthened that 
the present disorder will once give place to a far better 
state of affairs." 



two HOSTILE SCHEMES. 93 

When the calculation, of the monk failed, to have a 
refutation of the new doctrine which Zwingli preached 
printed in foiir sermons, his opponents sought to ap- 
proach him from another direction. The Church 
archives at Zurich contain an original document, without 
date, which in the name of several canons was handed to 
Zwingli, and in which twenty-one points were cen- 
sured, which he was said to have taught from the pulpit, 
and for which he deserved a reprimand. It is composed 
in true monkish Latin, and abounds in lies and misi-epre- 
sentations. 

They charge him that he suppresses customs ol 
the Church, instituted for the honor of God and the 
saints ; that he does not, like his predecessors in 
office, diligently exhort the people to the payment of 
tithes ; that he falsely affirms the festival of John, of 
Paul, and of the 10,000 martyrs, to be an invention of 
the priests ; that he despises Corpus Christi day, the pro- 
cessions on that day, and changes of dress after the 
mass ; the indulgences at this festival, and the celebration 
of the mass itself ; that, contrary to the opinion of the 
lawyers, he affirms the Pope, who alone besides the em- 
peror is regarded as sovereign, to be no sovereign. 
Secrets intrusted to him he reveals in the pulpit, dis- 
closing names ; therefore he must be commanded to stop 
preaching. At the same time Provost Felix Frei sent 
him a document of similar import, only, as it appears, 
more comprehensive, and supported by proofs. It can 
easily be imagined what Zwingli thought and felt w^hile 
reading these two documents. In a letter to Myconius, 
February 20th, 1520, he says concerning them : " The 
Provost expressed a part of his displeasure against him, 
and indeed in wi'iting, that it might not be forgotten, 
by a letter, wherein he asserts the tithes were appointed 



94: THU LlfE OF ULRIC ZWlKBLIi 

by God for the priests, whicli assertion Zwingli publicly 
refuted in Latin ; he further instructs him that it is not 
always best to speak the truth, because he is of the opin- 
ion that the priests must not be slandered ; afterward 
he touches on questions of law, and admonishes him not 
to place weapons against the clergy in the hands of the 
laity. And all this the sly little man writes, he says, as 
a friendly warning. Since Utinger, who advised peace, 
could eiiect nothing, I went to him and explained the 
whole matter, and the causes of my dissatisfaction, and 
asked him hereafter not to transmit in writing what he 
could tell me -verbally, particularly such weak reasons, 
which would certainly not win me to his side. These 
were principally taken from the papal law, and he had 
so perverted the Holy Scriptures that the authors would 
not have recognized them." , 

It was natural that the papists began to consider Zwingli 
as their enemy, who was in earnest about his separation 
from Kome. Likewise they believed that they must 
hinder their enemy in his efforts agariust the Romish 
priesthood, and if necessary, not only oppress but render 
him harmless forever. Yet, considering the powerful 
city, and Switzerland in general, a sudden attack was 
not allowable at present. The calumniation of his per- 
son and the new doctrines he preached was at present all 
that could be done against him, in part verbally, and 
with the assistance of the press. Besides, they secretly 
brought it to pass that the Council, to a previous resolu- 
tion allowing common priests and preachers in city and 
country everywhere to preach the Holy Gospels and 
Epistles, added a decree that nothing dare be preached 
against the monks. Then the Council had Zwingli 
brought into the house of the provost, where the 
burgomaster, in the presence of the officers of the mon- 



TWO HOSTILE SCHEMES. 95 

astery, commanded that hereafter nothing should be 
preached that wonld disturb the public peace. iJever- 
theless Zwingli arose and said : " 1 cannot receive 
this command ; I will preach the Gospel iree and un- 
restrained, as it had been formerly resolved. " Then the 
Council was compelled to yield, in spite of the monks, 
since it was bound by its own resolution. So much 
the more did the monks rage, and the monasteries were 
the meeting-places of all who hated Zwingli and the 
Gospel. Yet Zwingli continued bravely but prudently 
on the way of his calhng unto the end. 



CHAPTEK XTY. 

FIBBT FEtjrrS OF HIS LABOB. 

Since Zwingli found the pastor's assistants, who were 
in Ziirich at the beginning of his ministry, to be very un- 
skilfnl persons, who refused to assist him, he took as 
helpers two vigilant young men, George Staeheli and 
Henry Lueti. This was a proof of the zeal with which 
he endeavored to promote the cause of the Gospel, of the 
certainty with which he strove constantly to press toward 
the appointed goal, and of the courage which filled his 
soul for the welfare of the Fatherland. These two as- 
sistants he took into his house and to his table, that he 
could at all times employ them in the service of the Gos- 
pel. 

During the first two years he read mass ; and all 
the remaining duties of his ofiSce, according to the pre- 
vailing custom, were incumbent on him. They assisted 
him to perform the laborious duties of the large parish, 
which embraced the greater half of the city and the sur- 
rounding villages, whereby he gained more time to pre- 
pare his sermons, which were so indispensably necessary, 
because until the year 1521 he was the only preacher in 
Zurich and Switzerland who proclaimed the pure doc- 
trine. In all his sermons he insisted that his hearers 
should confine themselves entirely to the written Word 
of God, believe what accorded with it, and reject the re- 
mainder. He said this with such power, plainness, and 
persuasion that the Council commanded the pastors of its 



FIKST FRUITS OF HIS LABOK. 97 

district to preach from the New Testament in likie 
manner, and prove their doctrine only from the Bible, 
but omit innovations and human inventions. Zwingli, 
with increased courage, with deep gratitude toward 
God, and with uninterrupted faithfulness, clung to the 
literal meaning of the resolution. He believed that 
errors will disappear of their own accord, when the 
necessary knowledge of ■ the Word of God is attained, 
and avoided every violent interference. Such a course 
could produce only the best results for himseK, the 
Church, and the Fatherland, since his conduct hitherto, 
under the most unfavorable circumstances, showed in 
him the man who had come to Ziirich for this under- 
taking, not of his own accord, but as sent by the Lord. 
With this resolution of the Council, which had been se- 
cured through the influence of Zwingli, Zurich, upon 
which the eyes of all the Swiss who honored the Word 
of God were turned, had taken not only an important 
but the chief step in the reconstruction of the Church, 
her doctrine and customs. 

There was joy far and wide on account of this reso- 
lution of the Council, and the rapid, fearless progi-ess 
of Zwingli. The example which Ziirich thereby gave 
to the rest of Switzerland had a blessed efEect even 
beyond its borders. From Paris Glarean wrote, July 
7th : " I surmise that Zurich will soon be equal to many 
a university ; for this it is indebted to you and your 
unwearied industry." From Constance, Sebastian Hof- 
meister wrote to Zwingli, September 17th : " I under- 
stand that you continue to preach the truth. I praise 
your steadfastness and incorruptibility. Would to God 
I could be your assistant, especially in Zurich, that when 
that part of our blessed Fatherland will have been healed, 
the same good-fortune may. befall the- remainder." 



98 THE LIFE 01' ULEIC ZWIUGLI. 

Scaicelj was that far-reaching order of the Coun- 
cil issued to the preachers and common priests in 
city and country, when a second resohition followed, 
June 17th, which would have been adopted as li'ttle 
there, without Zwingli's blessed influence, as at strange 
places, where he was not known. The Chapter of 
Canons unanimously resolved that the old register of 
festivals, completed in the year 1260 (which, as the 
record says, on account of the multitude of festival 
and fast days introduced and adopted by our ances- 
tors and ourselves, could by no means be completely fol- 
lowed), be exchanged for an improved one — a resolu- 
tion which is another glorious evidence that' Zwingli 
was not rash, but sought only gradually to introduce the 
desired improvements. An important step was gained, 
since the canons not only saw, but also admitted, that 
by the enormous multitude of holidays an intolerable 
burden had been imposed upon the people ; and it was 
still more important that, without consulting the spiritual 
authorities, they took courage, on their own responsibil- 
ity, to lessen the burden, whose entire removal would 
have been premature. 

Still it must have been very encouraging to Zwingli 
that the clergy had fallen in with his ideas ; among 
whom Henry Ulinger was the most prominent and 
courageous, who also, in letters to their mutual friends, 
praised Zwingli's firmness and determination. Such 
first-fruits are so much the more precious, since he had 
two parties as enemies, which attacked him with equal 
zeal — the pensioners of foreign princes and the higher 
and lower clergy, whose intentions became daily more 
evident. IvTaturally Zwingli wished to be surrounded 
by men united to him by equal courage and similar 
sentiments, who would- help him to bear the burden 



FIRST FRUITS OF HIS LABOR. 99 

which was constantly growing heavier, and to contend 
with the daily accumulating hindrances, as well as to 
preserve what had already been acquired. 

In whatever direction he turned his eyes, he jould 
nowhere find a man so fully qualified as his youth- 
ful friend and follower in Einsiedeln, Leo Juda. With- 
out informing him of his purpose, he wroto to him 
about two years later, May 22d, 1522 : " Next Sun- 
day a monk of Eiiti will read the first mass at St. 
Peter's. It seems advisable that jou preach the ser- 
mon. Therefore come to me on Saturday, that you can 
preach to the people the following morning. This will 
serve our purpose excellentlj'. We must occasionally 
do something that is by no means agreeable, in order 
afterward to reach what we earnestly desire. When 
you come, we will have much to talk about." Leo 
came, preached several times, and pleased the congrega- 
tion, which, according to its unlimited right of election, 
chose him as its pastor on Sunday before Whitsuntide. 
What Zwingli expected from this new assistant, he says, 
in a letter to Myconius, dated August 26th : " Soon the 
lion, with his powerful voice and heart inflamed for the 
right, will be here, who indeed is small of stature, but 
full of undaunted courage." 

About eight months later Leo Juda setbled in Ziirich, 
and so fully met the expectations of Zwingli that a 
large part of the success in the preservation and ex- 
tension of the Keformation may be ascribed to his 
faithful zeal and constant activity. What Zwingli en- 
deavored to secure for the Lord he obtained. The 
fear of the Lord animated him, therefore the blessing 
of the Lord followed him everywhere. The purpose 
of the Lord prospered in his hands. All who, far and 
near, longed for the blessings of Ziirich looked and 



100 THE LIFE OF ULRIC ZWINGLI. 

listened to him, and received courage and strength, 
counsel and consolation from him. Wherever the Ref- 
ormation penetrated after protracted conflicts, or was 
suppressed by the united efforts of the priests and pen- 
sioners, Zwingli was regarded by friends and enemies as 
the head and principal supporter of the Eef ormation. 



CHAPTEE XV. 

GREAT DISCUSSIONS AT ZTJEICH, AND THEIE CONSEQUENCES. 

The constantly growing respect which accompanied 
the reformatory labors of Zwingli disturbed the mul- 
titude of rude monks. They sought that they might 
find. But when Zwingli, in a sermon on 1 Tim. 4 : 1-5, 
proved that the Lenten rules, as they were prescrib- 
ed by the Church, had no foundation in the Holy 
Scriptures, and some without consulting Zwingli ate 
meat during Lent, 1522', the monks thought they had at 
last found the long-sought-for opportanity to destroy 
Zwingli's influence. Zwingli's sermon on the institu- 
tions of men and the eating of meat were reported to 
the bishop at Constance, who thereupon sent three am- 
bassadors to the Council of Ziiiich. Zwingli's enemies 
rejoiced greatly when they arrived, and many friends of 
the courageous witness were apprehensive. 

The Council recei ved the embassy with great solemnity. 
Only with difficulty did the citizens of Zurich succeed in 
obtaining permission that Zwingli with two colleagues 
might be present during the proceedings. The suffragan 
bishop stated his charges in general terms, without 
naming Zwingli, and wished to depart immediately. But 
Zwingli compelled him to listen to his defence, and 
proved clearly from the authority of the Holy Script- 
ures that there was no Divine law to be honored in the 
Lenten rules, that the relinquishing of this statute was 
absolutely no rebeUion against the government, as the 



102 THE LIFE OF ULEIC ZWIKGLI. 

bishop had asserted, and that Zurich, since the adoption of 
the new doctrine, was the most peaceable city in Switz- 
erland. " I am also justly astonished," said Zwingli, 
" that though I have been a preacher in the Diocese of 
Constance for sixteen years,, the bishop never sent an 
embassy to ascertain the condition of faith and godli- 
ness in my congregations. But when the external order 
is violated only a trifle, they fill the world with charges 
and cries that Ziirich has departed from the Church of 
the faithful." 

In conclusion, he declared he did not wish fasting 
to bo forbidden, but eating to be allowed ; if any one 
really fasted in faith, he would rather that such a 
one do it during the whole year than not at all. This 
bold language and fearless bearing of the faithful witness 
impressed the embassy of the Bishop of Constance so 
powerfully that it silently withdrew. Wanner, the 
cathedral preacher, one of the three sent by the bishop, 
was so convinced of the truth that he afterward became 
a true servant of the Gospel. Concerning these three 
ambassadors, Zwingli, at the end of May, wrote as follows 
to Myconius : " The bishop sent his substitute, Mel- 
chior Vattli, Doctor of Theology ; John Wanner, and 
Doctor Brendli, to Ziirich. Here also the best was in the 
middle, for both ends were worm-eaten." Zwingli 
himself prepared a detailed report of the happy result of 
this embassy in a letter to his friend, Erasmus Fabrizius, 
who was then in his native city, Stein on the Ehine. 
This report proves that the coadjutor bishop, Yattli, who 
played the principal part, sought to overthrow Zwingli 
deceitfully, because he was afraid to risk an open attack. 

The three ambassadors of the bishop arrived in Ziirich 
in the afternoon of April Tth. Only late in the even- 
ing Zwingli, who knew they were coming and was 



GREAT DISCUSSIOKS AT ZUKICH. 103 

curious to hear what they proposed to do, learned from 
his assistant, Lueti, that a notary had invited all the 
priests to assemble in the chapter-room of the preben- 
daries early the next morning. Here the vice-bishop, 
Tattli, April 8th, delivered a discourse, whose contents 
can easily be inferred from Zwingli' s reply. He spoke 
very violently, arrogantly, and provokingly, but without 
mentioning Zwingli's name, although the whole address 
applied only to him. 

When he had finished, Zwingli arose, because he con- 
sidered it disgraceful to allow this address, which could 
do so much mischief, to remain unanswered, especially 
since he saw by the pale faces and sighs of several 
priests, whom he had lately gained for the Gospel, that 
they were greatly terrified. The ambassadors of the 
bishop, who discovered that they could accomplish 
nothing here, turned immediately to the Lower Coim- 
cil, where the bishop delivered the same discourse, 
without mentioning Zwingli's name. In the beginning 
it had been determined that the matter should be post- 
poned without citing Zwingh, because they had nothing 
to do with him. In all the other cantons Zwingli's bit- 
terest enemies wete among the members of the Lower 
Council, and so it seemed to have been here. The 
friends of Zwingli in the Lower Council brought it to 
pass that the matter was laid before the Upper Council 
the following day, but Zwingli and his two assistant 
priests were not cited. He exerted himself to the ut- 
most to gain admission for himself and his two colleagues, 
but in vain. He was resigned, and committed all to God. 

The Upper Council met April 9th, but immediate- 
ly expressed its dissatisfaction that the pastors could not 
be heardj The Lower Coxmcil wished to maintain its reso- 
lution adopted on the previous day, but was necessitated 



104 THE LIFE OF ULEIC ZWIITGLI. 

to allow an investigation. Then it was decided that 
three city pastors, who in regard to the question of Lent 
were of a different opinion, should be present ! Zwin- 
gli, Engelhardt, and Roschli entered the council-cham- 
ber. The vice-bishop began to speak. Zwingli had 
his tablets in his hand, and noted the principal points, 
that he might be able to answer them. Zwingli, as 
already observed, was victorious. The bishop and the 
old faith lost more than they gained by this discussion. 
It was generally remarked at Ziirich that the deputies 
would never more collect their defeated forces or en- 
gage in a conflict with success ; true, it was also said, on 
the other hand, that Zwingli wrote to Myconius, " They 
arm themselves a new ; but I do not fear them." Since 
the matter of fasting was now publicly disposed of, ha 
issued, April 16tli, the first printed work with his name 
attached about fasting, in which he shows that no person 
will be saved by the deeds of the law. " God Himself 
gave the law only that we might thereby learn our sin- 
fulness and seek grace alone in Christ, and after Christ 
has delivered us from all sin by His death, we are also 
in baptism delivered from all human institutions. In 
short, do you wish to fast, do it, but leave Christians 
free, for the eating of flesh is not forbidden by any 
Divine layr. If, however, your neighbor is injured or 
offended by your eating, you should not do it, unless 
compelled, till the weak in the faith are strengthened." 
Notwithstanding the rapidity with which he composed 
this as well as the most of his pamphlets, it is written 
with such eloquence and precision of expression, with 
such moderation and prudence, that it could not miss its 
aim, to satisfy and convince the minds that a moderate 
use of freedom could not be condemned either by God 
or reasonable men. 



GKEAT DISCUSSIONS AT ZUKIGH. 105 

This excellent pamphlet of Zwingli was most favor- 
ably received in the whole province of Ziirich and in 
other places. The sensation v^hich it produced must 
have been powerful, for the Bishop of Constance was 
compelled to issue a pastoral letter to all the priests 
and laity of his diocese. It is dated May 2d, and 
contains twenty theses, written in a venomous tone and 
with odious insinuations concerning the new doctrine, 
which he had better not have written. Toward the 
close of the year Zwingli published for the people a 
printed refutation of this pastoral letter, containing the 
bishop's twenty theses together with comments. Mean- 
while the delegation had returned to Constance from 
Ziirich and handed the reply of the Council to the 
bishop ; but it did not meet his approbation. The 
bishop directed a new Latin letter to the Provost and 
Chapter at Ziirich, in which he calls upon them to be- 
ware of the poison of the new doctrine, and expressed 
the hope that the scabby sheep in Ziirich would finally 
be thrust out. 

When this letter was read in the meeting of the 
Chapter, the canons all silently looked at Zwingli, 
who immediately arose and said : "I see from your 
countenances that you all believe this letter is direct- 
ed against me. I am of the same opinion ; therefore 
I desire that it be delivered to me. -With the help of 
God I wiU answer itj that every one may see the de- 
ceit of these people and the exact truth. " The letter 
was given to him, and he answered it likewise in Latin, 
in a long pubhcation, which bears the title " Archet- 
eles, " because he hoped, as he expressed himself in the 
dedication to the bishop, that as this was his first re- 
joinder, it would also be his last, and terminate all strife 
with his opponents. But he was disappointed. 



106 TUB LIFE 01? DLKIC ZWINGLI. 

About the same time that he wrote Archeteles he also 
composed other pamphlets, in which he praised the 
reconciliation by the blood of Christ. In one of these 
pamphlets he thus prays : " O dear Jesus, Thou seest 
how the ears of Thy people are closed by wicked trai- 
tors and selfish men. Thou knowest also that I from my 
childhood have avoided every strife, and that Thou art He 
who dost always lead me again into strife. Upon Thee 
I confidently call, that Thou wilt finish what Thou hast 
begim. Have I built anything that is wrong, overthrow 
it by Thy Almighty hand. Have I laid any other 
foundation than Thee, destroy it. O precious Jesus, 
forsake me not. Thou hast promised to be with us to 
the end of the world." 

The bishop, provoked by his hitherto unsuccessful 
efforts, turned to the Diet, in which the majority were 
friends of the Pope and people who took pay from foreign 
princes. Here the resolution was easily passed, that in 
the name of the Confederation, preachers who caused dis- 
turbances should be forbidden to preach. Likewise the 
new sermons should be forbidden. In all things the old 
customs should be upheld. The Diet, which was in ses- 
sion in Baden, irnmmediately wrote to Ziirich and Easel 
exhorting them to prohibit the publication of the new 
books. Everything was in a state of fermentation ; a 
final decision of tliese matters was everywhere desired. 
Zwingli resolved in the name of God to bring about this - 
decision by desiring the Council to allow a public discus- 
sion, in which he would justify himself and vindicate 
the cause of the Gospel. 

After a protracted consideration the Upper Council 
resolved on Saturday after the circumcision of Christ, 
the first week in the year 1523, that all preachers and 
the remaining clergy in its province should appear in 



GREAT DISCUSSIOirS AT ztJBICH. 107 

the council-liall at Ziirich January 29thj and every one 
should express, in the Geniian language, his opinions 
concerning the disputed points by quotations from the 
Holy Scriptures. In pursuance of the resolution, not 
only the Bishop of Constance was invited, but also the 
deputies of the Confederation assembled at Baden were 
requested to send their learned men and priests to 
Ziirich. The Bishop of Constance sent a delegation, 
but the Confederates were indifferent and even prohibit- 
ed their delegates from going to Ziirich. Schaffhausen 
sent Dr. Sebastian Hofmeister ; Dr. Sebastian Meyer 
came from Berne' ; no person appeared from Basel. Be- 
fore the discussion Zwingli had sixty-seven theses, on ac- 
count of which he had been declared a heretic, printed 
on a quarto sheet. Every one should know what pointf 
were to be discussed. The size of this book does not al- 
low the enumeration of all the sixty-seven articles, but 
several are given : 

1. All who say the Gospel is naught, without the ap- 
proval of the Church, err and slander God. 2. Briefly, 
the Gospel is that our Lord Jesus Christ, true Son of 
God, revealed to us the will of our heavenly Father, and 
redeemed us from death and reconciled us to God. 3. 
Therefore Christ is the only way of salvation for all who 
ever Hved, now live, or will hereafter live. 4. He who 
seeks or shows any other door, errs ; yea, is a murderer 
of souls and a thief. 6. For Christ is the guide and 
captain, promised and given by God to the whole human 
race. 7. That He is the eternal salvation and head of 
all believers, who are His body, which is dead, and can 
do nothing without Him. 16. In the Gospel we learn 
that human doctrines and institutions are useless for sal- 
vation. 17. That Christ is the only, eternal high priest ; 
wherefore we conclude that they who have pretended to 



108 THE LIFE OF ULEIC ZWINGLi; 

be high priests resist the honor and power of Christ, 
yea, reject them. 18. That Christ, who offered Him- 
self once, is forever a perfect and satisfactory sacrifice 
for the sins of all believers ; from which we conclude that 
the mass is no sacrifice. 19. That Christ is the only 
mediator between God and man. 50. God forgives sins 
only for the sake of Jesus Christ, His Son, our Lord. 
61. He who ascribes this to a creature robs God of His 
honor and gives it to Him who is not God : this is real 
idolatry. 57. The genuine Holy Scriptures know of no 
purgatory after this life. 58. The judgment as touch- 
ing the departed is known only to God. 61. The Holy 
Scriptures know nothing of the ordination, which the 
priests have lately invented. 62. They also recognize 
no priests, except those who proclaim the Word of God. 

Zwingli's introduction was as follows : " I, Ulric 
Zwingli, acknowledge to have preached in the estimable 
city of Zurich the following sixty-seven articles upou 
the authority of the Scriptures, which is Theopneusios, 
i.e. inspired, and offer to defend and prove these articles 
by the same ; if, however, I have not rightly understood 
said Scriptures, to learn a better interpretation, but only 
from the Holy Scriptures mentioned.' ' At the end of 
it he said : " Let no one undertake to contend with 
sophistry or idle talk, but come, allowing the Scriptures 
to be the judge (the Scriptures breathe the Spirit of 
Uod), that he may either find the truth, or if he, as I 
hope, has already found it, may retain it. Amen. God 
grant it." 

On Thursday, January 29th, 1523, early in the morn- 
ing, more than 600 citizens and strangers were assembled 
in the large council-hall at Ziirich, among whom was 
also the deputation of the bishop, consisting of the 
Knight Fritz Jacob von Anwyl, the bishop's steward ; 



GREAT DISOCSSIOKS AT ziJBrCH. 109 

the vicar-general, Jolin Faber ; Doctor Vengerhans and 
Doctor Martin Blansch, of Tiibingen, besides other 
learned and prominent men. Even from foreign lands 
and nniversities ecclesiastical and civil lords had come 
to hear the discussion. The burgomaster, Marx Roust, 
arose first and stated the reason why this discussion had 
been announced, and that Dr. Ulric Zwingli was ready to 
give an account of his doctrine. "Whoever wished to 
complain could speak frankly and without fear of pun- 
ishment. He thanked the friends present, particularly 
the delegation of the Bishop of Constance, that they had 
accepted the invitation of the Council. Hereupon 
Anwyl answered : " The bishop knows and feels the vari- 
ous dissensions that exist in his whole diocese ; he and 
his colleagues had been sent to speak kindly of these 
matters, and if possible to make peace." In the centre 
of the hall Zwingli sat alone at a table, on which lay the 
Bible, in the Latin, Greek, and Hebrew languages. It 
was his beloved book, with which he was remarkably 
well acquainted. He arose and delivered a short address 
to the assembly : " For a long time," he said, " the 
Word of God has been so arbitrarily suppressed by 
human institutions that salvation was sought in these 
things, although our salvation, our comfort, and happi- 
ness exist not in our merit, nor in external works, but in 
Jesus Christ our only Saviour, concerning whom our 
heavenly Father bore witness that we should hear him as 
His beloved Son. When this doctrine is again brought 
forward, it is condemned by many as heretical. This 
also happens to me. I am violently accused, throughout 
the whole Confederation, of being a deceiver and a 
heretic. Of this I complained to the honorable Council 
at Ziirich, and desired that it would grant me the privi- 
lege of holdings discussion before learned and unlearned 



110 THE LIFE OF ULEIC ZWINGLl. 

men, also before tlie Bishop of Constance, or his depu- 
ties ; yes, I am even ready, with a letter of safe-conduct, 
to appear in the city of Constance, I thank the honor- 
able Council meanwhile for the arrangement of this dis- 
cussion, for which I have brought my doctrine in sixty- 
seven articles, that every one may see what I have 
taught, and if I err, may correct me. Whoever imag- 
ines that my doctrine and sermons are heretical, I prom- 
ise to answer him kindly and without any ill-will. 
Now, in the name of God proceed. Here I am." 

Then the bishop's vicar-general arose and endeavored 
to frustrate the object of the discussion in the very be- 
ginning, by declaring that as a deputy and servant of his 
gracious lord of Constance he would not undertake to de- 
bate here. He thought such matters should be brought 
before a council, and if anything would be determined 
here what would other nations, France, Spain, and Italy, 
say. Therefore he repeated : "I am not here to 
debate." 

Zwingli interrupted: "The honorable lord deputy 
uses all kinds of arts to dissuade -you from your pur- 
pose. He says he is not willing to debate about old 
and laudable customs of the Church. We do not ask 
how long they have existed, but whether they be the 
truth ; for the papal law itself says usage must give 
way to truth. He says further, such matters should be 
brought before a council or settled by a large assembly. 
I ask him whether this present assembly is not also a 
large Christian assembly, in which there are many godly 
pastors, many doctors, and many friends of God. 
Formerly the bishops were only pastors, not mighty 
i-uling prelates. Christ says ; ' Where two or three are 
gathered together in my name, there am I in the midst 
of them.' It .matters not what other nations will say ; 



GEEAT DlSCUSSIOlSrS AT ZITBICH. Ill 

if they hear the truth, they will be satisfied. . . . We 
do not need the universities and people in general for 
our judges ; we have the Holy Scriptures, which cannot 
lie or deceive, in three languages : this is the only true 
judge. Therefore let no one delay nor draw back. 
Especially you gracious lords of the Council, proceed con- 
fidently to protect the truth of the Word of God.' ' 

A long silence ensued : not a sound was heard. Then 
the burgomaster said : " Is there any person here who has 
anything to say ? Let him speak. " But no one replied. 

Then Zwingli arose again and said : "1 ask you, 
for the sake of Christian love and truth, that you 
come forward and refute me, if I am wrong. If you 
do it not, I will mention the names of those who have 
accused me of heresy. But I warn you beforehand, for 
it is more honorable to appear unchallenged." This he 
repeated a second and a third time. 

The Abbot of KappeT, Wolfgang Joner, then asked : 
" Where are the persons who intend to burn us at the 
stake ? Let them come forward." All were silent. 

Then Jacob Wegner, the pastor of Nestenbach, said : 
" Less than a year ago our gracious lord of Constance 
issued a mandate that the traditions of the Church- 
should be observed, whereupon Urban Weiss, the pastor 
of Fislispach, was seized. Since no one will speak in 
opposition to Dr. Ulric's sixty-seven articles, whicn are 
against tradition, I hope we are now exempt from the 
bishop's mandate, so that we may freely preach the 
pure Word of God. It may also be inferred that too 
much severity was used toward the pastor of Fislis- 
pach. I say this simply that I may receive good advice 
concerning this mandate." 

The vicar-general was in a dilemma. Now he must 
speak ; but he spoke very unadvisedly. God so ordered 



112 THE LIFE OF ULBIC ZWINGLI. 

it that lie suggested a question for discussion, by boasting 
tbat he convinced an evangelical pastor, who had been 
brought to Constance a prisoner, that according to the 
testimony of the Holy Scriptures, the saints had 
already been invoked under the old covenant. Zwingli 
quickly seized the Bible: "Without doubt God so 
ordered it," he said, "that the vicar-general touched 
the article concerning the invocation and intercession of 
the saints. This article is not the least important among 
those with which I am reproached. I know that what I 
preach is the true doctrine of the Holy Scriptures, that 
Christ Jesus is our only Saviour, and mediator between 
us and His heavenly Father. Since the vicar-general 
publicly boasted that he convinced the pastor of Fislis- 
pach of error, with passages from Genesis and Exodus, 
Ezekiel and Baruch, I ask him, and 1 demand nothing 
more, than that he mention the chapters and passages 
of the Holy Scriptures with which he convinced the 
said pastor. If I have erred, I am willing to be convinced 
of my ignorance. " 

The matter now depended upon verses of the Holy 
Scriptures, referring to this subject. Faber was pain- 
fully embarrassed. He could mention none. "I see 
very well, dear sirs, that I have the worst of the argu- 
ment. I am reminded of what the wise man says : 
' The • fool is easily caught in his words. ' I am to 
blame for my folly, in attempting to speak, although I 
had distinctly said I did not wish to debate. Since, 
however. Dr. Ulric has challenged me, I answer in 
reply : Many hundred years ago, heretics appeared, 
who also said the invocation and intercession of the 
saints, purgatory, and the like things, were nothing. 
These were brought before the councils of the fathers 
and then condemned.' ^ 



GREAT DISCUSSIONS AT ZURICH. 113 

Zwingli answered : " Sir Vicar, further digression 
is unnecessary. Show us, I beg you, the passages of 
the Holy Scriptures with which you convinced the 
pastor of Fislispach of error. Answer in simple and 
plain language : there and there it is recorded ; then 
we will refer to the passages, and see whether it 
is so ; such a long speech is unnecessary. "We no 
longer respect the fathers and councils unless they prove 
their matters from the Holy Scriptures. Everybody 
knows that councils have contradicted one another." 
Faber sought to use artifice. Zwingli, however, held 
him to the question, by again demanding the specifica- 
tion of those passages which allow the intercession of 
saints. " These you must show us in the Holy Script- 
ures ; all else is idle talk." 

Faber finally answered : ' ' Since then all my words 
are unprofitable and trifling, I will gladly be still." 
Doctor Blansch of Tiibingen arose, but only to repeat 
what Faber had said. Then Sebastian Hofmeister ex- 
horted the Council to proceed valiantly with the Word of 
God, because there was no one present who could advance 
anything better. The burgomaster again challenged any 
one who felt so disposed to advance his opinion. All 
were silent. The assembly was dismissed. 

The Council tarried, and adopted the following reso- 
lution, which was read in the afternoon session : " The 
sword with which the pastor of Fislispach was slain 
will not make its appearance. Since Dr. tJlric Zwingh, 
canon and preacher in the cathedral at Ziirich, has often 
been secretly calumniated and abused on account of his 
doctrine ; and since upon his offer and the publication 
of his sixty-seven articles no one confronted him or 
ventured to convince him of error from the Divine 
Word, although he thrice challenged those who up- 



114 THE LIFE OF ULRIC ZWIIfGLI. . 

braided Iiim with being a heretic ; since no one con- 
vinced him of heresy in his doctrine, the above-men- 
tioned burgomaster's Lower and Upper Council of the 
city of Ziirich, to remove disturbance and discord, after 
mature consideration, resolved, and it is their earnest 
opinion, that Dr. Ulric Zwingli shall continue to preach 
according to the Spirit of God and the best of his abil- 
ity, the Holy Gospel and the pure Divine Word. We 
also command all other common priests, pastors, and 
preachers in our city and province to teach and preach, 
publicly nothing but what they find to agree with the 
Holy Gospel and what can be proved from it. They shall 
also in no manner in the future abuse, accuse of heresy, 
or reproach one another. "Whoever disobeys shall be 
made to see and feel that he did wrong. Done in the 
city of Ziirich, January 29th, 1523." 

After this resolution of the Councils had been read, in 
the afternoon session, Zwingli arose at his table, visibly 
affected and full of divine joy, and spoke of the glorious 
victory of the Word of God : " God be praised, who will 
have His holy Word reign in heaven and on earth. He, 
the almighty, eternal God, will, I doubt not, grant you, 
my lords, the power on other occasions to maintain the 
Word of God, the Holy Gospel, in your canton, and pro- 
mote the preaching of the same. Do not doubt that the 
almighty and the eternal God will in other ways reward 
you for this. Amen." 

After Zwingli had openly preached the pure Word 
of God sinfce 1506 in Glarus, still plainer and more 
fearlessly since 1516 in Einsiedeln, and labored especial- 
ly upon the Reformation of the Church since 1519, 
BO by the issue of this great discussion in Ziirich a new 
and highly important foundation-stone was laid in the 
vigorous and constantly extending work of the Swiss 



GREAT DISCUSSIOIfS AT ZUEtCH. 115 

Reformation. In Ziirieh and in the province a free 
and unobstructed path was opened for the Gospel, 
and other cantons were encouraged to honor the Gospel 
more decidedly. Eor in external matters not even the 
smallest changes had yet been made. In Ziirieh 
the mass was still read, they confessed and baptized 
according to the old custom, and the churches were 
adorned with the pictures of the saints. In the public 
service the Latin language, though unintelligible to the 
people, was still used. Since, according to Zwingli's well- 
considered plan, all improvements in religious matters 
among the people and the learned should proceed from / 
a conviction produced by proofs, so he by his teaching 
aimed at the removal of the still existing abuses. The 
removal itself must follow, although proceeding slowly 
and prudently. 

, In- the same year, 1523, the Gei'man language was 
introduced in the public service, the Latin being remov- 
ed. Zwingli prepared a baptismal formula in German, 
wherein he omitted the exorcism, the salt, the sign 
of the cross, and other additions ; and on the 10th of 
August the first child was baptized in the cathedral 
according to the new form. This new form produced 
such surprise, and joy that soon an entirely German 
liturgy was introduced. 

Zwingli was fully convinced that the existing external 
forms of public service should be changed. To this he 
was impelled by the inconsiderate conduct of a fanatical 
young man, Ludwig Hetzer, whose sentiments agreed 
with Carlstadt and Miinzer, also in many respects with 
the Anabaptists, and who became Zwingli's bitterest 
enemy. He, in his premature zeal and full of wild fire, 
printed in September, 1523, a pamphlet against the 
images, which was eagerly- read by the people. An 



IIG THE LIPE OF ULRIC ZWINGH. 

otherwise pious citizen, named Hottinger, became so ex- 
cited by this pamphlet that he overthrew a crucifix 
standing in Stadelhof, a suburb of Ziirich, and with 
the permission of the owner gave the wood to the poor. 
The government arrested him ; the people became 
excited", and took Hottinger's part. It was high time 
to interpose with instruction and order. Zwingli next 
printed a pamphlet on images, in which he first of all 
declared that no one had a right to remove the images 
except the government, and that it was ill-advised 
to remove them forcibly, without previous instruction. 
"The child will not leave the bench, " he wrote, "till 
you have given him a chair to support himself, before 
he is able to walk. So you must not be too much 
in haste to remove the images and idols from those 
who are not instructed in the Gospel, until faith in 
the one true God has been impressed upon their 
hearts." He proved clearly that images in general are 
not forbidden, and that beautiful pictures and statues, 
which no one admired more than he,' are not to be re- 
jected ; only the superstitious adoration of them is abso- 
lutely forbidden. Then he showed that the arts of 
painting and sculpture are noble gifts of God, and that 
God Himself ordered the tabernacle to be adorned with 
beautiful pictures. He especially defended the paintings 
on glass in the churches, because no one ever thought of 
adoring them. But that the images are to be regarded 
as books for the laity in the church he refuted with the 
question : " Why is it that, although the cross has con- 
fronted us everywhere for so many years, we never 
sought salvation in Christ ?" 

Before the pamphlet on images appeared, Zwingli had 
issued two pamphlets about the doctrine of the mass, 
which caused a great sensation among the clergy, and 



GKEAT DISCCSSIONS AT ZUKICH. 117' 

raised the question among the people why the mass was 
not abolished, sin6e it was proved from the "Word of God 
to be something entirely different from what they had 
hitherto believed. Zwingli did not wish to be hasty, 
hoping that those who on account of old prejudices still 
clung to the mass, would be convinced of their error by 
being kindly instnicted. 

After these pamphlets concerning the images and the 
mass were widely distributed, the Council arranged a 
second discussion, October 26th, 1523. All the bishops 
and the governments of the cantons of Switzerland were 
invited. Schaffhausen and St. Gallen alone accepted 
the invitation, all the other cantons declined. When on 
, Monday, October 26th, early in the morning, the discus- 
sion was opened in the hall of the council-house, 
although ten cantons had declined, more than 900 per- 
sons of all stations in life were present. In the centre 
of the hall Zwingli and Leo Juda sat at a little round 
table, upon which lay the Old and the New Testaments, 
in the Latin, Greek, and Bebrew languages. Conrad 
Hoffman opened the discussion, commencing with the 
images. As a violent enemy of Zwingli he spoke very 
insolently. Since Zwingh and Leo Juda waited in vain 
for a refutation^ because none of those present ven- 
tured to make any objections which accorded with the 
Holy Scriptures, and since on the second day, when the 
discussion about the mass took place, no one ventured 
to contend for it, the pastors from the country, who had 
called Zwingli's doctrine heretical from the pulpit, were 
challenged several times to confute it by the Holy 
Scriptures. 

Finally, when all were quiet, the president called 
upon them, one after another, by name. The first 
two called upon, Henry Hurliman, pastor of Wadens- 



118 TUE LIFE OF ULRIC ZWINGLI. 

scliweil, and the pastor of Horgen, were not present. 
Of the first it was reported, " He is asleep ;" the second 
sent a siibstitiite, who would not answer for him. Next 
in order was Pastor Alexander Schyterberg, of Laufen, 
who was a great fighter in the pulpit against Zwingli. 
"When he hesitated to prove that the new doctrine was 
heretical, he was again called upon, either to vindicate 
his doctrine here or to desist from abuse at home. 
Then he answered : "I will give you a short answer ; I 
know nothing against the article." Next to him came 
the pastor of Glattfelden, Casper Schiichysen, who was 
called upon to give an account why those whom he 
always rebuked from the pulpit as heretics deserved 
the name. Since he could give no explanation, he 
promised to speak the truth in the future. At the re- 
quest of the Council, President Badian arose and con- 
tinued the questioning. But all those who were ques- 
tioned admitted that they were caught, and the last one 
thought he could not fight, since his sword was broken 
off at the hilt. 

On Tuesday, when the mass was discussed, Zwingli, 
Badian, the Abbot of Kappel, the Abbot of Stein, the 
Provost at Embrach, and the Commander at Kiisnacht 
spoke in turn. Zwingli showed that the Lord's Supper 
is no sacrifice which one man can offer for others. The 
longer the discussion lasted the more earnest and solemn 
it became, so that at last it seemed as if they were as- 
sembled in a church. "When Zwingli at the close ex- 
horted the Council to allow God to rule in spiritual 
matters, and said to them : " Dear, gracious lords, be 
not terrified ! God is on our side. He knows how to 
protect His cause. I see well that you will encounter 
many things. But for the sake of the pure Word of 
God, disregard it. Now, in God's name ! We will 



GEEAT DISCUSSIOITS AT ZUKICH. 119 

commit all to the Lord ; He will never forsake us in 
time of need. 1 heard that last night people walked 
hither and thither and said that the body and blood of 
Christ were to be rendered of none effect. But no one 
intends to do this" — then he himself and others were 
deeply affected, and many a man had tears in his eyes. 
Zwingli, on account of weeping, could say no more. Leo 
Juda added a short, appropriate address, whereupon the 
assembly dispersed ; the discussion was ended. 

The two articles concerning the images and the mass 
were argued so thoroughly from the Word of God by 
Zwingli and Leo Juda that their argument, by its jjerfect 
conformity to the Scriptures, triumphed over all doubt. 
The Council now appointed a committee of four members 
of each Council, who should consult with tlie Abbot of 
Kappel, the Provost of Embach, Commander Schmid 
and the three pastors, Engelhardt, Leo Juda, and Ulric 
Zwingli, how the Christian doctrine concerning images 
and the mass could best be promulgated. Zwingli was 
unanimously requested to write a short introduction, by 
which the pastors who did not as yet know the Gospel, 
and those who had shown themselves to be averse to it, 
could be induced to preach Christ. Zwingli quickly 
complied with this request. The Christian introduction 
was read to the Council and approved. The removal of 
the images and the mass was postponed till the people 
were further informed by this introduction. Without 
delay this truly glorious production of Zwingli was 
printed and sent to all the pastors by order of the Coun- 
cil — a new mandate preceding, composed, like the in- 
troduction, by order of the Council, which in its opinion 
was firmly grounded upon the Divine Evangelical Script- 
ures of the Old and the New Testaments. 

In this document Zwingli admirably shows how beauti- 



120 THE LirE 03? ULEIC ZWlNGLl. 

fully and preciously the Law has been abolished by the 
Gospel, because Christ has rendered satisfaction for our 
sins, whereby we are not only redeemed from punishment, 
but for the pious believer the law has been- removed 
(Galatians 2 : 19), for he lives in Christ, and Christ in 
him. Where the Spirit of God is, there is liberty. 
Therefore a man who lives in God is free from the laws 
which concern the inner man, and does freely and cheer- 
fully all things which become a Christian. We judge 
them by their fruits, who are thus free. Are they 
humble ? it is owing to the Divine Spirit which dwells 
within : Christ too was humble. Are they concerned 
for the salvojtion of other men ? so was Christ. Are 
they patient ? Christ too was patient. Are they peace- 
able ? this too is from God. Are they brave when the 
honor of God is concerned ? so too was Christ. Thus 
Zwingli taught true Christian hberty, which is the same 
as obedience toward the Word and command of God. 

As the Council felt the importance of this step which 
it took by the publication of this mandate and the Chris- 
tian introduction, so Zwingli also perceived the impor- 
tance of his commission ; therefore he with the greatest 
prudence went not a step further than the people had 
come, and spoke of the adherents of the old usages with 
a forbearance which merits great respect. The whole 
tenor of his pamphlet shows that he wrote for the un- 
educated, since no learned arguments appear, and the 
doctrine is as simple as the language ; but even the edu- 
cated he did not overlook. The joy at this splendid pro- 
duction of Zwingli was so general that the people of 
Ziirich undertook to send it to the Pope. Yet the Pope 
was not pleased, either with the little book or its large 
circulation. 

Nevertheless nearly all the chaplains and vicars 



GREAI DISCUSSIOKS AT ZUKICH. 121 

in the province did not wish to read mass any more. 
When Henry Widmer continued to read- mass, he 
was reproached by his colleagues. In this perplexity 
the Provost with the Chapter appeared before the Coun- 
cil and stated in the presence of the chaplains their re- 
fusal to read mass. The Council examined the common 
priests, the chaplains, and assistants, and declared that 
the mandate concerning the images and the mass should 
be read again in the three churches of the city. The 
committee appointed on these articles should consult 
once more how the clergy must act in reference to the 
mass. The three common priests, according to the re- 
quest of the Council, framed an expression of their opin- 
ion. They dared not violate their own conscience, nor 
did they wish to violate the consciences of those who still 
clung to the old doctrines and customs. " The advice 
and opinion of the common priests, Engelhardt, Zwingli, 
and Leo, concerning the mass and the images," was the 
following : 

1. The Lord's Supper and the mass are different cus- 
toms. The word mass is never mentioned in the Holy 
Scriptures. The body and blood of Christ shall not be 
diminished, but used according to the institution. 

2. The assertion that the mass is a sacrifice is a 
denial of the all-sufficient sacrifice of Jesus Christ ; 
therefore every good Christian must insist upon abolish- 
ing the mass. 

3. We must abide by the explicit Word of God, and 
leave the consequences to God. Every alteration which 
does not accord with the Word of God must again be 
removed ; this change will cause fresh disturbances. 

4. According to its institution, the Lord's Supper shall 
be administered to Christian people in both forms. 

5. Since they could not deny the people the proper 



122 THE LIFE OF ULKIC ZWINGLI. 

use of the Lord's Supper any longer, they offer to ad- 
nainister it on the approaching Christmas festival entirely 
according to the command of Jesus. If not allowed to 
do this, they must, according to their conviction, give 
body and blood, bread and wine, to those who desire 
it, or stand convicted of falsehood by the "Word of 
God. 

6. Daily sinners need daily strengthening by the 
Word of God ; therefore they offer to preach a short 
sermon every day instead of reading mass, and to ad- 
minister the Lord's Supper according to the institution 
of Christ, to every one who desires it. 

1. "Whosoever is offended at the multitude of idlers 
belonging to the priesthood should remember that it is 
always better to let them die off in peace than compel 
them to act contrary to the order of God. lie who 
begins to break solemn promises and obligations will 
soon not hesitate to attack other things also, which would 
produce great distractions. The great number will be 
diminished as soon as no new ones are admitted and the 
parishes are supplied with canons and chaplains. 

If the Council did not accept these propositions, they 
could offer no others which would agree with the Word 
of God. They ask that none of the clergy be com- 
pelled to read mass. ISIo one compels a layman to com- 
mune so and so often, therefore it is also proper that a 
clergyman should be free from such compulsion. The 
Word of God compels them to use this sacrament and 
others according to their divine institution. Fearlessly 
the Council shall adhere to the Word of God. God will 
not forsake it. The opponents have only man's word ; 
the Council the clear Word of God, upon which, like a 
firm foundation, it can base its resolutions. Like obedi- 
ent sone, the councils ehall let God manage His servant. 



GKEAT DISCUSSIONS AT ZURICH. 123 

and do what He commands ; then tliey will neither err 
nor be overcome. 

Zwingli coincided with this opinion, because it ac- 
corded with the "Word of God, and he constantly advised 
them to undertake nothing which would not accord with 
the spirit of the age and the directions of the Bible. 
Since the hearts and the faith of people were different, 
and he knew many weak and timid ones who needed for- 
bearance, he yielded to the weak till they would be able 
to bear strong food. He sought an expedient which 
would not injure the strong, neither strengthen the 
weak in their error, nor offend them, hoping that God 
would regard his heart, which desired only to "build up 
and not to tear down. 

In his opinion, the mass and the Lord's Supper could 
exist together, since some would not forsake the mass, 
others not observe it. The common priest should 
administer the Lord's Supper in both forms to every 
one who desired it, and mass should be read for some 
time, at least on Sunday, in all the churches, "with- 
out any one attempting to reproach the mass-priests, 
of whom a great many well know that the mass is 
no sacrifice. Instead of offensive language, it becom- 
eth every one to pray for a general illumination, that 
all may be favorable to pure, simple Christian cus- 
toms. When several priests differ in their opinions, 
they should adhere to the Word of God : " Love bear- 
eth all things." The "Word of God makes all things 
easy, and the grievances of both parties will be thereby 
so diminished that hope revives nothing but the seeds 
of peace, and reconciliation will be sown. What shall 
be read or omitted in the mass is left to each one's con- 
science. This proposed moderation would attain the de- 
sired object slowly but surely. Zwingli sought to make 



124: THE LIFE or ULRIC ZWINQLi. 

provision for the wants of all, althougli the impetuous 
advocates of the old and new faith, might not be satisfied 
with it. 

In reference to images, it was the unanimous opinion 
of the common priests that the tablets should be locked 
and not opened again. The silver, gold, and other 
images should not be brought out and carried around, 
neither at the great festivals nor on other occasions. 
The Council should abide by its mandate, that no one 
shall place images in the churches or remove them, im- 
less he had placed them there before, or unless it had 
been determined by the majority of the whole congrega- 
tion. 

This advice of the three common priests was first sub- 
mitted to the committee appointed by the Council, which 
carefully considered it. It found the resolutions on the 
images complete, and further action concerning them un- 
necessary. In love, without offence and dissension, they 
may be taken away. The mass shall be freed from 
abuses, and such parts retained as agree with the Holy 
Scriptures. 'No one shall be forced to attend mass. 
The committee will not discuss at present the new prop- 
osition, to administer the sacrament of the body and 
blood of Christ according to the original institution. 
This article was neither transcribed nor debated, and no 
advice concerning it imposed upon the common priests. 
This matter needs a closer discussion, since it concerns 
the faith, and not abuses. Finally it was recommended 
that everything which did not agree with the Holy 
Scriptures and serve to promote the glory of God, should 
be removed from the canon of the mass. 

The Council could now adopt a resolution according to 
the advice of the three common priests, or according to 
the opinion of the committee. Both views had their ad- 



GREAT DISCUSSIONS AT ZURICH. 125 

vantages. Concerning the images the Council agreed 
with the advice that the tablets should be locked and 
that the images should not be carried about. The re- 
moval of idols was something suspicious, repugnant, and 
a heavy burden to Marx Roeussen. 

The mass was the principal subject of consultation. 
It was retained for the present, but every one was at 
liberty to read mass or not. Brotherly love and unity 
were recommended to both parties. To instruct the 
clergy still further, the whole priesthood was invited to 
appear before the Council. Mean while the Council would 
not take further action concerning the Reformation. 
The faith was too highly esteemed to precipitate a 
change ; the Council would not listen to any harsh meas- 
ures. A decisive resolution was postponed xmtil Pente- 
cost. 

Evidently better information was sought ; therefore 
it was resolved to send the Christian introduction to 
the Bishops of Chur, Constance, and Basel, the Univer- 
sity at Basel, and all the Confederates, with the request 
kindly to communicate their objections founded on the 
Holy Scriptures. After hearing them, the matter shall 
be taken up again in a half year, to determine what is 
pleasing to God and profitable to His word. In the same 
session of the Council a certain resolution was adopted, 
which had immense influence upon the future course 
of events. Hitherto the Lower Council alone trans- 
acted all business which concerned the clergy, received 
complaints against them, and determined punishments. 
Hereafter this business was brought before the Upper 
Council, whereby the reformed party gained a decided 
majority, while their Opponents belonged principally to 
the Lower Council. Many of them were respected on ac- 
count of their age and services and too much accustomed 



136 THE- LIFE OF ULRIC ZWINGLI. 

to seek pensions or support from princes and lords for 
themselves or their children. This mania, destructive to 
the Fatherland still secretly lingered in Ziirich. 

The people of Zurich, earnestly meditating upon the ex- 
tirpation of this state-poison, in order to deal with every 
one as free men, won the grandest victory over themselves 
and decreed the abolition of pensions. On the evening 
of St. Thomas's day, December 21st, Zwingli, who never 
lost sight of his object to deliver the Confederates from 
all injurious alliances with foreign princes, preached in 
the small cathedral earnestly and decidedly against pen- 
sions. Immediately after the sermon all the secular 
priests, canons, assistants, and chaplains of the city took 
an oath not to receive pensions either from the Pope, 
the Emperor, nor from kings, princes, and lords. The 
burgomaster and the Councils T;ook a similar oath on the 
following day in the choir of the large cathedral. In the 
evening all priests were likewise assembled in the choir 
of the cathedral, and bound themselves by a like oath. 
Whoever transgressed forfeited his life. So the truth, 
which the great Reformer proclaimed, celebrated one 
victory after another. 

It can easily be imagined that the work of the icono- 
clasts caused many an unpleasant scene. Although the 
images were more and more despised^ yet the hour ap- 
pointed for their removal had not yet come. Rashness 
in regard to them could not remain unpunished. The 
iconoclasts, headed by Hettinger, the shoemaker, had 
acted contrary to earnest mandates, and by their vehe- 
mence caused the government to be slandered. Shoe- 
maker riottinger was exiled for two years, and even 
then not allowed to return without being pardoned. 
Lorenz Hochruetiner, the weaver, was also compelled to 
leave the Canton of Zurich. Ilenrv Ockenfuss was ar- 



GREAT DISCtrSSIONS AT ZURICH. 127 

raigned before the two Councils and censured. All were 
I'equired to pay the costs. 

The images had lost their claims to respect. Ten 
years after it had happened, Thomas Platter artlessly 
relates how he, as the servant of the school-teacher 
Myconius, was required to kindle fire, and having no 
wood, sneaked into the church and took from the altar 
the image of the Evangelist St. John and threw it into 
the stove with the words : " Jseggli, now stoop ; you 
must go into the stove, although you are said to be St. 
John." The image blazed up. Myconius, who did not 
know what had been done, praised his servant for the 
good fire, but became uneasy and apprehensive when 
he heard two priests quarrel and one harshly assail 
the other, " You Lutheran villain, you stole my John." 
Fortunately no one saw tKe young church robber ; and 
it would have cost him his life had he not kept it a 
secret ten years. Others were not always deterred 
from similar attempts by Hottinger's punishment. 

In St. Peter's Church the palm-mule was kept. 
Annually the butchers took it to the linden-yard on 
Palm Sunday. It was a little festival for them. It 
was incumbent on the common priest to treat them to 
cakes. In defiance of the butchers, or induced by the 
contempt for this annual procession, several malicious 
persons stole the keys of the church at twilight. With 
great difSculty the mule, adorned with the image of 
Christ, was taken out over the railing and into the 
churchyard to frighten those passing by, or otherwise 
create a disturbance. They accomplished their purpose, 
since the right persons came. Two citizens, armed ac- 
cording to the custom at that time, with side-arms, were 
the first to meet tl^is monster. Quickly they drew 
their swords, attacked the mule, and stoned him, with- 



128 i:HE LIBE OF ULEIO ZWINGLI. 

out knowing against whom they were fighting. The in- 
considerate jokers were near by to await the result. ' One 
of the citizens who fought against the mule thought he 
knew the enemy, and when he found the men together, 
promised them a drink if they would go with him and 
see whether it really was the palm-mule. They ac- 
companied him. The proposition to throw the mule 
into the lake pleased them. He was dragged to the 
bank near by, cast into the water, and sunk with stones. 
Conrad Bauman had taken the keys. Henry Dachsman 
gave the advice to cast the mule into the sea. Both of 
them, together with five others, were imprisoned. The 
wise and prudent Council would not allow such mischief. 
The images' last hour had not yet come. No new im- 
ages dared be made, and processions must be omitted. 

One reform evidently followed another. They were 
willing to do what could no longer be prevented. The 
chapter of the canons was now so changed that divine 
services were held every morning in the clioir of the 
cathedra], consisting of a prayer, the reading of a selec- 
tion of the Holy Scriptures in the Latin, Greek, and 
Hebrew languages, and the so-called matins in German 
for the congregation. Soon afterward, singing was also 
added. Yillage-schools fiourished in the country, the 
farmers read the New Testament, which was translated 
into the German language by Zwingli and Leo Juda. 
The cloisters, at the request of their occupants, were 
used for the sick and the poor. The nuns and monks 
who laid aside the dress of their orders could remain. 
The peaceful, just, and decided procedure of the Coun- 
cil prevented all unpleasant scenes. 

The work of the Lord prospered and showed plainly the 
wisdom and prudence with which Zwingli conducted the 
Reformation of the Church. The former discourses of the 



GKEAT DISCUSSIONS AT ZlJRlCH. 129 

mendicant friars, St. Jacob's brethren, hermits, and others, 
concerning the heights of heaven and the joys therein, the 
depths of hell and the torments therein, the souls in 
purgatory and indulgences, had lost their power, because 
the people fathomed the basis of such sermons. The 
preachers could not help themselves any longer with 
Seneca, Aristotle, and Scotus. Even the edicts of the 
Popes were futile. The people demanded proofs from 
the Holy Scriptures, and the doctrines of St. Paul were 
valued only so much the higher as his opponents under- 
valued him. In the homes of the people, in city and 
country, were to be found those books of the Old and 
the New Testaments which Zwingli had hitherto trans- 
lated, to which were added those finished in 1530, so 
that at the end of this year many thousands possessed 
the whole Bible in Swiss-German, according to Zwin- 
gli's translation. 

The houses of the country people were made Christian 
schools by the reading of the Holy Scriptures, and this 
pious custom in their native language rendered the Latin 
services unendurable. Zwingli's work had taken root, 
deeply and extensively. 

In the year 1525 the Lord's Supper was celebrated for 
the first time in the manner offered by Zwingli, based upon 
the old churchly custom. It was Thursday in Passion- 
week. The great cathedral was not able to contain all 
who wished to commune in the new way. After the ser- 
mon, Zwingli with two deacons stepped to the altar, cov- 
ered with a white cloth, which stood in the naVe of the 
church. They stood behind it, Zwingli in the middle, 
facing the congregation. After a short prayer, during 
which the whole congregation knelt, one of the deacons 
read 1 Cor. 11 : 20-29, whereupon both, with the whole 
congregation said: " God be praised." Then Zwingli, 



130 THE LIFE OF ULRIC ZWINGLJ. 

with the two deacons and the congregation repeated 
alternately the Gloria in Excelsis : " Grlory be to God 

on high. And on earth peace " After the 

salutation: "The Lord be with you," to which the 
congregation responded, " And with thy spirit," one of 
the deacons read John 6 : 47-53. After he had finished 
reading, he said : " God be thanked and praised for 
this, •w^o will forgive us all our sins according to His 
Holy Word," closed the book and kissed it. The con- 
gregation answered solemnly, " Amen." Then, the dea- 
cons having repeated responsively the Apostles' Creed, 
Zwingli exhorted to self-examination, and the people 
kneeling repeated the Lord's Prayer. After the sol- 
emn Amen of the people, Zwingli prayed again, when, 
amid the breathless silence of the congregation, the 
words of the institution were repeated in a loud solemn 
voice, Zwingli held up the bread, brake it, and handed it 
to the two deacons, and then also held up the cup and 
presented it. The two deacons took the bread and the 
cup and carried them to the congregation still kneeling 
in the pews. Because there were so many people, and 
the golden vessels were not sufficient, they took wooden 
plates and wooden cups, as was often done in the early 
Christian Church. When all had received the consecrated 
bread and wine, while the last words of Jesus according 
to John 13, M, 15, 16, were read from the pulpit, 
Zwingli offered a prayer of praise and thanksgiving, sim- 
ilar to the 103d Psalm, when the celebration was closed 
with a short exhortation and the benediction. 

Indescribably great was the impression made by this 
first celebration according to the new mode. All were 
most deeply affected. Aged men and women, while re- 
ceiving the bread and wine with thankful emotions, wept 
aloud. After the celebration many embraced each other 



GREAT DISCUSaiOilS AT ZURICH. 131 

as redeemed brethren. People wlio had long been enemies 
extended their hands sincerely to one another ; a spirit 
of brotherly love as in the early Christian Church could 
be felt everywhere. Zvringli could not thank the Lord 
sufficiently for the rich blessing of this first celebration 
of the Lord's Supper. As in the city, so also in the 
country, the Lord's Supper was celebrated hereafter in 
the same manner. 

Since this celebration three hundred and sixty 
years have passed away, yet the manner of the cele- 
bration remains substantially the same. The reforms 
which gradually prepared a path for themselves, 
in Ziirich and in the country ; the growing conviction in 
the Council and among the people of the magnitude of 
the abuses and their necessary removal ; the hatred of 
the power and dissolute life of the priesthood, allowed 
no cessation in the .onward movement. The innova- 
tions which had been introduced proved themselves to 
be so salutary beyond expectation that Zwingli imme- 
diately planned a Christian order of service in the 
Church, that the life of a Christian should agree as much 
as possible with his new confession. The ties which 
had bound the wardens, the clergy, and the people to the 
Pope and the Bishop of Constance were already as good 
as broken. 

The Synod, which consisted of all the clergy and 
several members of the Great Council, took the place 
of the bishop. At the head of the Synod was an Antistes 
who through deans and elders administered order and 
had the oversight. In the congregation several pious, 
honorable men elected by the congregation were added 
to the pastor, who should take care of the congregation. 
They cared for the sacred observance of the Sabbath, 
besides which, as long as Zwingli lived, not only the 



132 THE LIFB OF ULEIO ZWINGLI. 

chief festival days, but also several otlier days, were 
celebrated. They were concerned for the sacredness of 
the marriage tie. If any one led an unchristian life, 
they cited him, and admonished him kindly and earnestly. 
But if he would not listen to them, and continued in his 
perverseness, they excluded him from the holy commun- 
ion. If he transgressed those commandments of God 
which come within the sphere of the government, they 
informed the authorities, that wickedness might be 
punished in good time. Zwingli experienced the joy of 
being able to write concerning the church at Ziirich : 
" The apostolic, true, holy Church of God has the real, 
pure doctrine, prayer, the breaking of bread, holy bap- 
tism, confession, repentance, amendment, and forgiveness 
of sins. This the church at Ziirich has also. What the 
early Church considered to be necessary customs, those 
the Church at Ziirich has too. Marriage she confirms in 
good order and with prayer to God. The saints are 
remembered with honor, whose love and faith are to be 
imitated. The dead are buried decently, but without ob- 
serving ceremonies, which are not taken from the Word 
of God. Fasting and almsgiving, wliich were highly 
honored by the early Christians, have also in Ziirich 
their honorable Christian order. The beloved youth 
are diligently instructed in the fundamental doctrines of 
the true Christian reh'gion. That it has no external 
ornaments of gold and silver, pictures, carved and en- 
graved images, is owing to the fact that the early Church 
did not have them, and even rejected them. Therefore 
the Church at Ziirich laid aside the ceremonies and re- 
turned to ancient simplicity. God will be honored not 
with outward show, but with faith, love, innocency of 
spirit, and in truth. To Him be praise and honor 
through Jesus Christ forever. Amen. '.' 



GREAT DISCUSSIONS AT ZUKICH. 133 

Thus -we see tlie glorious results of the two discussions 
at Zurich reaching their highest point in 1625 : the im- 
provement in doctrine and faith, as it was already called 
in Zwingli's time, is in substance finished. The onward 
■ course of the great Eef ormer was systematic, tranquil, but 
firm and decided. He followed his conscious aim with 
steady consistency, only step by step, sparing the con- 
sciences of the weak and the strong, because he wished not 
to tear down, but build up. He was perfectly success- 
ful in introducing and grounding the reformation of the 
Church and of the Fatherland by an uninterrupted vin- 
dication of the divine authority of the Holy Scriptures. 
The glorious results of his labors in the short period of 
about six years were : A German sermon as the centre 
of every divine service ; Baptism and the Lord's Supper 
according to the command of the Holy Gospel ; instruc- 
tion of the youth and examination before their first com- 
nmnion ; morning and afternoon services on Sunday, 
with singing, prayer, reading a selection of the Holy 
Scriptures, and a sermon ; weekly meetings to study the 
Bible instead of matins and vespers ; a daily biblical dis- 
course, with the exception of Friday, in the chapter- 
house ; mass and choir singing are silent ; synods, classes, 
etc. , instead of the supervision of the bishop ; the deliver- 
ance of the Fatherland from the dreadful plague of re- 
ceiving pensions from popes and princes ; the great cor- 
ruption of morals among all classes powerfully restricted ; 
a prosperous theological seminary for Christian young 
men, according to his plan and under his guidance, hav- 
ing ' as teachers, Ceporin, Pellican, Myconius, Collin, 
Megander, and others. His friends in his own country 
justly named him "the trumpet of the Gospel." In 
Southern Germany he was called "the eye and true 
bishop of the Fatherland." Even in papal Italy he 



134 THE LIFE OF ULEIC ZWINGLI. 

labored, by pamphlets and letters, for the pure Gospel, 
while his scholars transformed entire churches. The Re- 
former of the Grand Duchy of Hesse had been his 
scholar ; also Lasko, the Reformer of East Frisia. 
The Evangelical Church of Italy, the Waldenses, ac- ' 
cepted his doctrine. To the people of Muehlhausen he 
could write : " God, who watches our conflict, rules 
over all coimtries. He will not overlook you, who con- 
tend for His name's sake ; He will, when the time has 
come, regard also your enemies and put them to flight. 
God increase your faith." 



CHAPTER XYI. 



At tlie early age of twenty-two years Zwingli was 
honored by learned and experienced men of science far 
and wide " as a perfect expounder of the Scriptures." 
His scientific knowledge bordered on the marvellous, and 
caused in his Fatherland the greater surprise, since he 
never used the title of Doctor of Divinity which the Uni- 
versity at Basel had bestowed upon him on account of 
his great knowledge. His constant communion with 
God, who since the days of his childhood had become 
his stafE and support in happy and- sorrowful hours, and 
continued to be until death, did not allow him to use 
such honors and dignities to increase his reputation. 
•"One is our Master, Christ," he was generally accus- 
tomed to say to those who advised a public use of the 
justly merited title of honor. 

It must have been very painful to Zwingli that 
Luther, without knowing him, was accustomed to re- 
proach him verbally and in writing that he (Zwingli) was 
a mere repeater of his (Ln.ther's) doctrine. This grieved 
Zwingli, who was otherwise modest, not because his de- 
served renown was thereby diminished, but because this 
calumny, which was spread among the people to rniii his 
great reputation in Switzerland and in Germany, weak- 
ened a strong proof of the truth of their common doc- 
trine, that two men, so widely separated, standing in no 
connection-, even unknown to each other by name, 



136 THE LIFE OF ULRIC ZWIXGLI. 

tauglit as harmoniously as if tliey had agreed upon it. 
" I commenced to preach the Gospel of Christ in 1516, 
before a single person in our country knew anything of 
Luther's name. When Luther's exposition of the Lord's 
Prayer was issued, and 1 shortly before had preached on 
this prayer in Matthew, many good people who found 
my thoughts everywhere in it could not be dissuaded 
from the opinion that I was the author of the little book, 
and had prefixed Luther's name because I was afraid to 
own my work. Who could reproach me with being a 
Lutheran ? Why did the Roman cardinals and legates, 
who then lived in our city, Ziirich, not accuse me of 
being a Lutheran until they had declared Luther a here- 
tic, although that did not make him a heretic. After 
that they said that I was a Lutheran. Luther's name 
was not known to nie for two years after I had adhered 
only to the Bible. But it is only through craftiness that 
papists give me and others this name. If they say. You 
must certainly be a Lutheran ; you preach as Luther 
writes, my answer is, ' I preach also as Paul writes ; 
why do you not rather call me a Paulinian ? Yes, I . 
preach tlie Word of Christ ; why do you not rather call 
me a Christian ? ' Therefore this is only a trick. In my 
opinion, Luther is an excellent champion of God. What 
does it concern me that the papists accuse me and bim of 
being, heretics? In the manly spirit with ■which heat- 
tacked the Pope of Rome, none has equalled him. But 
wliose is the deed — God's, or Luther's ? Ask Luther 
himself ; he will certainly tell you it is God's doings. 
Why do you ascribe the doctrines of other persons to 
Luther, when he himself ascribes them to God, and pro- 
duces nothing but what is contained in the Word of 
God ? Nevertheless, I will not' bear Luther's name, 
because I have read little of his doctrine, and carefully 



ZWINGLl'S STANDPOINT AGAINST LUTHEB. 137 

avoided his books, only to satisfy the papists. What I 
have read of his writings, so far as it concerns the doc- 
trines and opinions of Scripture, is generally well ex- 
amined. I know also that in several things he concedes 
much to the weak ; for instance, in his little book con- 
cerning the ten lepers (as I have been told, for I have 
not read it), he concedes something to confession, that 
you shall present yourself to the priest, which cannot 
be drawn from this narrative of the Evangelist. Devout 
Christians do not allow the honorable name of Christ to 
be exchanged for the name of Luther ; for Luther did 
not die for us. Does Luther preach Christ ? he does 
what I do ; although, God be praised ! by him a greater 
number will be led to God, since God makes the meas- 
ure greater or smaller, as He pleases. I will bear no 
name but that of my captain, Jesus Christ, whose sol- 
dier I am. No one respects Luther more highly than 1 
do. But I testify before God and men that I never 
wrote a syllable to him, nor caused one to be written, 
nor he to me. I refrained from this, not that I feared 
any one, but because I wished to show all men how uni- 
form the Spirit of God is, since we who are so widely 
separated are so harmonious without any consultation." 

Before the ban pronounced against Luther, June 15th, 
1520, was published, Zwingli, hearing that the letter of 
excommunication had been despatched, resolved to go to 
his friend, William de Falconibus, the secretary of the 
legate Ennius, who in the absence of the legate man- 
aged the affairs of the Koman Court, and remonstrate 
against the publication of the papal edict of excommuni- 
cation. In this connection the fact is worthy of mention 
that Zwingli, in a letter to Myconius, already expressed 
a presentiment of his violent death, which happened 
eleven years later, and stated that he would shortly in. 



138 THE LIFE OF ULKIC ZWISTGLI. 

tercede in behalf of Luther, " As for me, a victim de- 
voted to death, I expect only evil from all, clergy and 
laymen, and beg of Christ only the grace to hear all with 
manly courage, and that He, according to His good 
pleasure, destroy or preserve his vessel. And if the 
anathema falls upon me, 1 will remember the holy Hila- 
rius, who was exiled from Gaul to Africa, and Pope 
Lucius, Avho was expelled, but reinstated with great 
honor. True, I do not consider myself equal to them, but 
the wholly undeserved fate of these excellent men will 
comfort me. Yea, I will rejoice to suffer ignominy for 
the sake of Christ. But let him that standeth take heed 
lest he fall." 

Since Zwingli's generous intercession for Luther was in 
vain, he sought by other means to prevent the Pope's 
thunder of excommunication against him. He issued 
a pamphlet, without prefixing the name of the author, ths 
place of publication, or publisher (which was Zwingli's 
first printed pamphlet, and deserves to be mentioned 
on this account, but more for its contents), which shows 
the author's great wisdom, love of peace, impartality, 
and love of truth. This beautiful proof of faith closes 
thus : "1 desire that evangelical truth may triumph, 
and all things subserve the honor of Christ." The 
secret of its authorship was so well preserved that Zwin- 
gli's name was not mentioned then nor since, and the 
pamphlet appears to have been quite forgotten. But 
alas, with this pamphlet Zwingli did not succeed in con- 
vincing the Pope of his error. Yet this noble deed 
which Zwingli performed in behalf of Luther, who 
knew nothing about it, is narrated from generation to 
generation. May the Church which Zwingli founded 
never lose his spirit ! 



CHAPTEE XVII. 

ATTEMPTS AT MUEDEB, 

As early as 1520 Zw^ingli was visited by friendly, 
honorable citizens, who inquired whether the doors of his 
dwelling were secured by strong fastenings. Receiving 
an affirmative answer, they remarked : "Then be watch- 
ful to-night. Tour friends will also be on the watch ; 
but they might arrive too late. If attacked, hold out at 
least a little while." 

" Such evenings," relates George Staheli, " we passed 
man3% Yet we had the support of good friends, who 
often stood guard about the house at night. Many a 
time we surely expected to be attacked. But we were 
well prepared. At one time we received a letter from 
an unknown person at a distance, so that we greatly mar- 
velled and regarded it as a manifest dispensation of Prov- 
idence. On the following day I chanced to pass over 
the upper bridge on my way to church. Here I met a 
chaplain, who invited me to a walk about the moat of the 
city walls. lie besought me most earnestly to remove 
my effects from Zwingli's residence, and also to leave it 
myself. Should I refuse to heed this warning, I would 
repent of it hereafter, for something great was about to 
happen. Then he read to me an extract from a letter : 
' Let Zwingli take good care from whom he purchases 
bread and meat.' From this I perceived that the chap- 
lain had heard of the attempt against which the first- 
named letter had warned us, and that this information 



liO THE LIFE OF tJLEIC ZWINGLI. 

had been sent to Constance. But I did not pursue the 
matter any farther." More light is thrown upon this 
occurrence by an anonymous communication, which, as 
it afterward appeared, was written by JVCichael Hummel- 
berg, and by its date determines the year to have been 
1522. It is apparently the same letter to which Staheli 
refers, and it seemed to him of necessity to have been a 
})rovidential means of saving Zwingli, since the writer, 
by reason of his youthful timidity, had been hitherto 
restrained from honoring Zwingli and beseeching his 
friendship ; but now, for the first time, ho would do 
so, because his heart impelled him to warn the Ee- 
former. And thus he writes : 

" If you (Zwingli) ever cared for your life, you must 
do it especially at this time, because you are menaced by 
secret traps and snares. Deadly poison is prepared to 
put you out of the way. Since the godless fellows dare 
not attack you openly, they desire to remove you from 
the earth as they did Claudius Caesar, by secretly mix- 
ing a poisonous mushroom with your food. Therefore, 
be on your guard. If you are hungry, eat at home of 
the food that your own cook has prepared, for outside 
of your own house you can nowhere eat without danger. 
There are people living within the walls of Ziirich who 
would do everything in their power to destroy you. 
Take care, dearest Ulrich, beloved of God, take the 
best care of yourself ; and again I say, beware of these 
murderous eunuchs, and believe me that all victuals not 
prepared in your own house are poisoned ; for you are 
nowhere safe ; danger threatens you from every side. 
And now as to the sources whence I have derived this 
knowledge, and as to the oracle that has revealed it to 
me, it is not necessary for you to know ; it speaks more 
truly than did the oracle of Delphos. Yet it? priest 



ATTEMPTS AT ilUKDEK. 141 

dare not publicly reveal it. Your plain understanding 
will naturally lead you to suspect whence that comes 
which I have not been willing to conceal from you, 
because of the regard and the fraternal love I entertain 
for you. In great haste from Swabia. Whoever I am, 1 
am yours. You will learn to know me in due course of 
time." 

A letter similar to the above was also received from 
Constance. Zwingli referred the matter to the Council 
of Ziirich, which body immediately applied to the 
authorities of the former city for an investigation. But 
the conspirators were never discovered. Myconius re- 
lates : " Not an hour passed but that priests and lay- 
men concocted conspiracies of the worst kind against this 
defender of virtue and truth." And again he narrates : 
" When priests and monks had been overthrown and the 
resolution of the legislative Grand Council (of Ziirich) 
had been enforced against the pensioners, recourse was 
had to intrigues to do away, if possible, with this hated 
man. I pass over those conspiracies that remained con- 
cealed to the world, but which I shall never forget ; I 
will mention only those that are well known. At one 
time a person called at midnight at Zwingli' s residence 
to call him to the bed of a dying man. Zwingli's vicar 
replied that hie master, fatigued by the labors of the 
day, could not be aroused at this time, and offered to 
go in his stead. The caller would not accept of this, 
and by reason of his obstinate refusal excited the suspicion 
of a secret conspiracy. Under the pretext of informing 
Zwingli, the vicar locked the doors, leaving the inquirer 
standing on the outside. On the following morning it 
was reported that it was intended to gag Zwingli, place 
him in a boat, and thus secretly abduct him. A few 
weeks later a horse was held in readiness with a similar 



143 THE LIFE OF ULRIC ZWINGLI. 

aim in view. Still later tliere was seen openly walking 
about the city of Ziirich an assassin — reported to have 
been a native of Zug — who intended to slay Zwingli in 
the streets. He was betrayed, apprehended, but escaped 
from confinement. Two natives of Ziirich, whose names 
I conceal, attacked Zwingli's house by night, demolished 
the windows with stones, and by their cursing and stone- 
throwing occasioned such a fearful, scandalous, and in- 
human noise that the neighbors did not dare open their 
windows. Nor did they cease their tumult until their 
supply "of stones, voice, and strength had been ex- 
hausted. Complaint was made to the burgomaster of 
the city. In the morning the gates were locked. Arm- 
ed men vainly sought the disturbers of the peace in 
every corner of the city. At last some women, through 
their loquacity, betrayed one of the ofEenders ; the 
other had fled. The former was pulled out of the wine- 
barrel of a certain priest and carried to jail. After long- 
continued deliberations he was condemned to imprison- 
ment for life, but in the course of a few weeks he was 
released from jail, at the request of the authorities of 
Berne. Zwingli often of an evening supped at the 
house of a trusty friend, or at an inn. On his return 
home he was nearly always accompanied by trustworthy 
citizens, in order that no evil might befall him. And 
the Council of the city ordered his house to be guarded, 
at night during these dangerous times." 

Another attempt to murder Zwingli is mentioned by 
Jodoeus Kilchmeier, of Luzerne, in a letter to Zwingli, 
written the same year, 1522 : " It is reported that, not 
long ago, two monks, pretending to interrogate you con- 
cerning certain religious questions, demanded very bois- 
terously that you should visit Luzerne. Your readiness 
to serve everybody inclined you to j)romise it, but your 



ATTEMPTS AT 3IUEDEE. 143 

vicar is said to have reminded you that yoti ought not, 
especially at night, to leave your dwelling at the impor- 
tunate demand of every one ; but that he would first re- 
connoitre, so that you might not, during these troublous 
times, fall into any life-imperilling snare. You are re- 
ported to have followed this advice, and to have remained 
at home. As soon as your vicar left the house he was 
seized, under the impression that it was yourself (Zwin- 
gli), and, threatened with death, carried off. But his 
voice betrayed him, and perceiving their error, his assail- 
ants hurriedly fled, in order not to be apprehended, and 
thus themselves to fall into the pit prepared for you.' ' 

Since the time of the two disputations of Ziirich, the 
friends of the Reformation in Switzerland looked more 
than ever to this city for support, so beneficial were the 
results of these conferences. Yet, on the other hand, 
the more energetically did the enemies of the cause 
labor, and but awaited the secret alliances which were 
being fonned among the Swiss Confederates. In some 
way Zwingli must be removed ; until this were accom- 
plished they would not rest content. To .this end 
another disputation should be held, yet not indeed at 
any place friendly to the cause of the Reformation, but 
rather in some purely Roman Catholic city, in order that 
their end might be gained. The general vicar of the 
Bishop of Constance, John Faber, and the notorious Dr. 
Eck, a valiant defender of the Pope, Archduke Ferdi- 
nand of Austria, as well as the higher clergy, labored to 
create among the people a desire for a public disputation 
concerning the doctrines as held by the Roman Church. 
Zwingli and the Council of Ziirich, to whom the murder- 
ous designs as connected with this proposed disputation 
were unknown, were at first greatly inclined to favor 
this plan. Indeed the Council sent Dr. Eftk a lettier of 



Ii4 THE LIFE OF ULSIC ZWIKGLI. 

safe-conduct, and invited him in a very friendly manner 
to clioose Ziiricli as the place of disputation. But since 
the murderous plans of Faber and Eck could not well 
have succeeded in the Eeformed city of Zurich, Eck de- 
clined the extended invitation, well knowing that the 
Swiss Diet would appoint the papal city of Baden, in 
Aargau, as the place of meeting. Accordingly the Swiss 
Diet, which well knew that the five Roman Catholic 
cantons — Uri, Scliwyz, IJnterwalden, Zug, and Luzerne 
— held the controlling influence in Baden, to the astonish- 
ment of all Switzerland, appointed the disputation to 
take place on the 16th of May, 1526, at Baden, in Aargau, 
where long before this ■ Zwingli's teachings had been 
persecuted by fire and sword ! In Luzerne, before this 
conference was held, jjictures of Zwingli were burned. 
In Freiburg his writings were destroyed by fire. Every- 
where within the jurisdiction of the canton to which 
■Baden belonged it was publicly declared that Zwingli 
would be arrested should he set foot upon the territory. 
One of their prominent leaders, named Ueberlinger, 
boasted that he would be willing to be called a hangman 
the remainder of his days could he but have the wished- 
for opportunity of hanging Zwingli ! 

All this reached the ears of Zwingli and of the Council 
of Ziirich in due time. From different quarters faithful 
warnings were received. Dr. Eck, who for many years 
had made the extermination of heretics with fire and 
sword the subject of public and private addresses, sent 
Zwingli a letter of safe-conduct, but which was so 
cunningly worded that Zwingli could have been law- 
fully arrested upon his arrival in Baden. For a clause 
in this letter declared that protection should only then 
be afforded him if he were found worthy of it ! No 
doubt the confession of evangelical trath would have 



ATTEMPTS AT MUEDEE. 145 

been regarded as unworthy beliavior, and — Zwingli 
■would have been put to death. In fact, bloody sacrifices 
already proclaimed the fate that awaited Zwingli should 
he appear in Baden ! A consistory, with Faber at the 
head, a week before the appointed disputation, con- 
demned an erangelical minister, named John Hiigle, to 
be executed as a heretic. On his way to the place of 
execution he sang the first verse of one of Luther's 
hymns : 

" Lord God, thy praise we sing ; Lord God, our thanks Vfe bring ; 
Father in eternity, all the world worships Thee. 
Angels all and heavenly iost of thy glorj' loudly boast ; 
Both cherubim and seraphim sing ever with loud voice this hymn : 
Holy art thou, our God, the Lord of Sabaoth." 

Peter Sprugler, pastor at Freiburg, was drowned at 
the command of the Bishop of Constance. Everywhere 
murmurings were heard : Zwingli would be seized and 
carried oflE should he appear in Baden. Upon hearing 
such reports Zwingli arose, in the Council of Ziirich and 
said: "Ye know how the brave men of Stammheim 
were treated in Baden, and how their blood flowed upon 
the scaffold. To this place of execution they invite us 
to assemble. Let them choose Ziirich, Berne, St. Gall, 
Basel, Constance, or Schaffhausen ! Let none but im- 
portant questions be discussed ; let nothing but the 
Word of God be acknowledged as the supreme judica- 
tory ; and then I will be inclined to appear at the dis- 
putation. " The Council thereupon decided that Zwingli 
should not go to Baden, and thus the cunningly devised 
plan of Zwingli's assassination was brought to naught. 

The opening of the appointed disputation was defer- 
red until the 21st of May, when, it being "Whitsunday, 
it was opened with great pomp and splendor. During 
the disputation messengers informed Zwingli of its prog- 



146 XHE LIFE OJ? ULEIC ZWINGLI. 

ress, and tlie representatives of the cause of tlie Eefor- 
mation were enabled to give a good account of their 
faith and mightily to refute the errors of the enemy. 
Zwingli's teachings triumphed. Schaffhausen, Basel, 
Berne, St. Gall, and Appenzell received the new doc- 
trines with favor. In vain did Thomas Murner, monk 
at Luzerne, prepare himself solemnly to declare Zwingli 
the heretic to be a conquered perjurer, liar, adulterer, 
unbeliever, thief, etc. ; in vain did he picture him as 
already hanging upon the gallows ! The whole progress 
of the conference plainly showed that the Eoman Catho- 
lics had prepared to celebrate a great victory. But in 
this they were disappointed. This the papal party 
perceived, and indulged their vsrath in verbal and writ- 
ten denunciations ; and since they could not apprehend 
Zwingli, they excluded Zurich, Basel, and St. Gall from 
the confederation. 



CHAPTER XYIII. 



THE MAEBUEG CONFEEENCE. 



At the Diet of Spire, on tlie 19th of April, 1529, the 
fnndainental doctrines of Protestantism received a defi- 
nite form and a final acknowledgment. This victory of 
the Word of God, which alone was at stake, excited the 
Boman Catholic party to devise some counter movement 
to overthrow Protestantism. An alliance among all 
Protestants seemed to be necessary, and would have been 
accomplished but for the opposition of Luther. Philip 
of Hesse was greatly annoyed at this, and said : " On 
account of the Zwinglians, no nnion is desired by some ; 
let us then remove the differences between the two par- 
ties." Such an alliance seemed to be indispensable to 
the growth of Protestantism. " It is necessary,' ' writes 
Landgrave Philip, of Hesse, in the year 1529, to the 
Elector John, of Saxony, " that we do not permit our- 
selves to be so shamefully divided, although our learned 
theologians are not agreed npon some points that are 
either unimportant or else debatable, and upon which 
our faith and salvation do not depend." In these beau- 
tiful words the noble Landgrave pointed out the way 
which he was inclined to pursue in the reformatory re- 
generation of his principality. It was owing to him 
that, at the imperial Diet of Spire, all the cities which 
were friends and adherents of Zwingli were not sacrificed 
to the demands of the Roman Catholic majority. 

Moreover, since at that time the civil polity was under 



1-18 THE LIFE 0? ULEIC ZWIIJ'GLI. 

the control of tlie prevailing theology, there was btit one 
course for the Landgrave of Hesse to pursue : to efEect 
a reconciliation by bringing together the Lutheran and 
the Reformed representatives. If existing circumstances 
had not been so unfavorable, Landgrave Philip would 
have appointed a meeting for the year 1528, but he 
postponed it until 1529. Melanchthon had already been 
won over to Philip's views to such an-extent that he de- 
clared the differences between the two churches to be of 
no great consequence. This encouraged the Landgrave, 
w:ho now turned to ZwingU and requested him to accept 
the invitation to a mutual conference with the Lutheran 
party. Zwingli, whose heart longed for peace between 
the churches, thanked the Landgrave for his exertions 
on behalf of the Church's welfare, and promised to come. 
Luther did not favor the conference, nor was Melanch- 
thon much inclined to go. But since the Elector of 
Saxony desired them to attend, they consented and went, 
sending him the following declaration : "If the Swiss 
do not yield, then all your trouble is in vain." 

Zwingli, on the other hand, would not avoid a discus- 
sion concerning the doctrine of the Lord's Supper. He 
desired to see and to meet Luther. And the progress of 
the disputation showed that he was well furnished with 
arguments out of the Holy Scriptures, well-grounded in 
dogmatic theology, and well acquainted with the writings 
of the old Church fathers. He was never at loss for 
an answer. He stood completely upon the immovable 
foundation of the Divine "Word. 

Zwingli sought permission from the Council of Zurich 
to undertake the journey to Marburg. "I am con- 
vinced," said he, " when we doctors shall meet, the light 
of truth will enlighten our eyes-." But the Council 
would not give its consent, for it did not wish to see its 



THE MAKBURG OONEERENCB. 149 

beloved pastor go on so remote a journey. Zwingli, 
however, who had entertained gr£at expectations from 
the results of this conference in the interests of the 
peace of the Church, could not and would not remain at 
home. Fastening his gaze upon the spiritual welfare of 
all Christendom, he lifted up his eyes, filled with scald- 
ing tears, and prayed : " O God, Thou that hast never 
forsaken me, Thy will be done, to Thine own honor and 
glory." He then prepared himself for the journey. 
But because of his enemies, who still sought his ruin, he 
was obliged to keep his departure a secret. Not even 
his wife knew whither he was going. Rudolph Collin, 
professor of the Greek language, accompanied him. On 
the night of the 31st of August they mounted their 
horses and set out for Basel. When his enemies heard 
of his departure they rejoiced. Some said the devil had 
visited him and carried him off. Others said that he 
left the city in company with several rogues. To the 
Councils of the city he wrote : "If I depart without 
notifying you beforehand, this will happen not because 
I do not respect and honor you, but because I know 
your love to me, and that your con.cem on my account 
would hinder my departure." 

On Tuesday, September 6th, Zwingli, accompanied 
by Oekolampad and other friends of the Eeformation, 
left Basel on board of a boat, descended the Rhine and 
reached . Strassburg in thirteen hours. Here they 
sojourned at the house of the dean of the cathedral, 
Pastor Matthias Zell, whose wife, after attending to 
their wants, seated herself at the feet of the two Reform- 
ers, to hear the Word of Salvation. Zwingli found her 
to be so intelligent a woman that he ranked her higher 
than many of the learned doctors. 

From Strassburg Zwingli and Oekolampad continued 



150 THE LIFE OF ULRIC ZWINGLI. 

their journey in all quietness, accompanied by forty 
Hessian hoi-semen, and reached Marburg on "Wednesday, 
September 29tli. The next day Luther arrived. In 
order that the Kef ormers might become more intimately 
acquainted with one another, the Landgrave had ar- 
ranged that Luther and Oekolampad, Zwingli and Me- 
lanchthon, should hold a private conference concerning 
the questions in controversy before beginning the public 
discussion. Accordingly on the 1st of October, after the 
morning service had been held, these four men met in 
pairs and conferred in separate rooms. After the lapse 
of three hours they were called to dinner. That finish- 
ed, Zwingli and Melanchthon continued their conference, 
but not Luther and Oekolampad. The latter complained 
of the treatment he had received from Luther, and enter- 
tained no hope of union because of this. 

Zwingli demanded that the conference should be open 
to every one. Luther opposed this, and would not con- 
sent to the presence of representatives from Frankfort, 
Strassburg, Basel, and from other Swiss cities, as well as 
from the Rhine region. As Zwingli relates, there were 
but twenty-four persons present. On Saturday, the 2d 
of October, at six o'clock in the morning, the conference 
was opened in the great hall of the Knights of the 
Castle, at Marburg. The Hessian Chancellor, Feige, 
opened and conducted the proceedings, and in the name of 
the Landgrave reminded every one again " to seek every 
possible way and means through which this burdensome 
and injurious division may be speedily ended, and they 
all brought together again to steadfast unity." Luther 
was not altogether inclined to comply with this wish, and 
in reply to the above reminder he wrote with chalk, in 
large letters, upon the table at which he, Melanchthon, 
Zwingli, and Oekolampad were seated, these words : 



THE MAEBUEa CONFEKENCE. 151 

' ' This is my body. ' ' All were astonished at this 
action. 

The Hessian chancellor once more requested all pres- 
ent not to overlook the wish of the Landgrave. But 
Luther replied : "I solemnly declare that I differ from 
my opponents on the doctrine of the Lord's Supper, and 
that I will continue to differ !" And to this declaration 
he practically adhered. Before touching upon the 
Lord's Supper, Luther sought to include all the other 
Christian doctrines within the range of the discussion ; 
but Zwingli insisted that the conference should be con- 
fined to the doctrine concerning the Holy Sacrament. 
Luther then began the discussion by declaring that it 
was necessary to abide by the very letter of the words 
of institution. Oekolampad replied that it would be im- 
possible to receive all the declarations of Christ liter- 
ally ; thus, for example : "I am the true vine, and my 
father is the husbandman,'-' " 1 am the door of the 
sheep," "John is Elias," "The seven good- and the 
seven ill-favored kine are each seven years," "Christ 
is the rock," "This is my body.'' Luther conceded 
that many passages of Scripture are to be taken spiritu- 
ally, but not so the passage touching the Lord's Supper. 
Oekolampad reminded him of John 6 : 63 : " It is the 
Spirit that quickeneth : the flesh profiteth nothing," and 
added : " What Christ here rejects he cannot approve in 
the Holy Sacrament." Luther refused to continue the 
consideration of this passage, pointed to his chalk writ- 
ing, and maintained that when God speaks man must 
believe and not criticise. Oekolampad desired to know, 
since man received a spiritual benefit by partaking of the 
Lord's Supper, what further special benefit the oral re- 
ception would impart ? Luther declined a direct answer, 
but replied : "If God should command me to eat dung, 



153 THE LIFE OE ULBIC ZWINGLI. 

I -would do it ; it would certainly be wholesome to me ! 
We must believe, and do it. We must do it." 

At this point Zwingli took up the discussion with Lu- 
ther, and emphasized the statement that Scripture must 
be explained by Scripture, and hence Christ's words of 
institution of the Sacrament must be interpreted accord- 
ing to John 6 : 63. Luther again pointed to his writing, 
and simply said: "This is my body." Zwingli en- 
joined him to cease repeating this same remark. Land- 
grave Philip, perceiving that his attempts at union 
were in danger, intimated his approval of Zwingh's ex- 
planation. The whole party then proceeded to dinner. 

At the afternoon session Zwingli read Luther's and 
Melanchthon's published spiritual interpretation of 
John 6 : 63, to show that both agreed with him in teach- 
ing a spiritual reception or benefit. Straightway Luther 
and Melanchthon disavowed this explanation, and main- 
tained : "As soon as the words of institution have been 
spoken, the body is present, no matter how bad the 
priest may be that utters the words. " It was evening, 
and the conference adjourned — without resiilt. 

On the following day, ■ Sunday, October 3d, the dis- 
cussion was resumed at the point where it was broken off 
on the previous day. Zwingli called upon Luther to 
prove how a body could be in different places at the 
same time, for the latter had made this statement. 
Luther continued to repeat: "This is my body." 
Zwingli grew weary of this repetition. He had sought 
to prove the spiritual benefit of the Sacrament, accord- 
ing to exegetical rules, from the scriptures, and from 
^Natural Philosophy. He now adduced the Church 
fathers in evidence. He quoted the declarations of 
Fulgentius about the natures of Christ ; then also a 
citation from Augustine. Luther responded : " The 



THE MASBCRG COiNFEBEXCE. 153 

body of Christ is present in the Lord's Supper, but not 
as in a place," i.e. locally. It was now noon. Oeko- 
lampad summed up the result of the morning's confer- 
ence, claiming that, if the body of Christ were not local- 
ly present in the Sacrament, then it is not a real body, 
and that thus Luther had refuted his own previous state- 
ments. 

After dinner the conference was continued. Oeko- 
lampad began the discussion with the remark that, 
since Luther had conceded that the body of Christ is not 
locally present in the Sacrament, they would now in all 
kindness proceed to investigate the manner of the pres- 
ence of Christ's body. To this Luther replied : " You 
will not drive me a step further. If you have Fulgen- 
tius and Augustine with you, then we have all the other 
Church fathers with us." Luther was asked to name 
them. "We shall not name them," was his reply; 
and, lifting the table-cover, he pointed to his writing 
and exclaimed : " Behold, thus reads the passage ; you 
have not driven us from it, as you have boasted ; we 
care nothing for other evidence." It was in vain to 
continue the conference ; the discussion was at an end. 
The frightened chancellor implored them to come to an 
agreement before separating. Luther replied : "I know 
of but one means to secure this : let our opponents 
believe as we believe." " That we cannot do," re- 
turned Oekolampad. " Then I will leave you to the 
judgment of God, and pray that He may enlighten 
you," responded Luther. " We shall do likewise," an- 
swered Oekolampad. During this time Zwingli stood 
silent, deeply moved, and shed tears in the presence of 
aU. Landgrave Philip accepted the teachings of Zwin- 
gli. At the close of the conference he desired that they 
should recognize one another as brethren. Thereupon 



154 THE LIFE or ULKIC ZWINGLI. 

Zwingli, bathed in tears, extended to Luther the hand 
of peace. To the surprise of every one, Luther refused 
to accept the proffered hand, remarking : " Ton have a 
different spirit." "We are conscious of having acted 
from pure motives ; posterity will testify to this,' ' replied 
the Swiss representatives. On the 5th of October they 
left Marburg. Luther also returned home. 



CHAPTER XIX. 



THE FIEST WAE OF KAPPEL. 



The cause of the Eeformation now controlled the can- 
tons of Zurich, Berne, Basel, St. Gall, SchafEhausen, Gla- 
rus, Appenzell, and the free districts. These formed an 
alliance, to the chagrin of the Pope, the hishops, and the 
Roman CathoHc element of the population. In iact, the 
Roman Catholic party now exerted itself to the utmost 
to suppress the Gospel in the territory under their juris- 
diction. The Bishop of Constance issued a pastoral 
letter enjoining them to remain good Catholics, and to 
defend themselves bravely, otherwise all Switzerland 
would soon become Reformed. On the other hand, the 
Reformed cantons were all the more zealous on behalf of 
the Evangelical cause. Canton Ziirich, alternately with 
the five Roman Catholic cantons of Zug, TJri, Schwyz 
and Luzerne, administered the government for a period 
of two years in Thurgau and in the valley of the Rhine. 
Under the Reformed governors appointed by Zurich these 
districts enjoyed the free exercise of religion, whereas 
under the Roman Catholic governors they were badly 
oppressed. Thus, under Joseph am Berg, of Schwyz, 
and Jacob Strack, of Zug, the Reformed allies were great- 
ly abused. They were fined, imprisoned, and tortured. 
One of the Reformed preachers had his tongue cut off, 
some were beheaded, and others burned at the stake. All 
copies of the Bible, wherever found, were thrown into the 
fixe. In the old treaties, concluded before the Reforma- 



156 THE LIBE 01' ULKIC ZWINGLI. 

tion, no mention was made of religion. Hence the 
people of Ziiricli demanded that the civil governors 
should discharge the functions of the secular government, 
but should not concern themselves about matters of re- 
ligious belief. The Catholics maintained, on the other 
hand, that during the two years of their administration 
they could do as they pleased. Hence dangerous con- 
troversies ensued which must lead to war. Fraternal 
hatred was carried so far that the four forest cantons 
completely ignored the battles of Murten, Laupen, Hor- 
garten, Sempach, Nafels, etc., in forming an alliance with 
their ancient enemies, the Austrians, who were defeated 
in the above-named battles and thereby expelled from 
Switzerland. Even the imperial party were astounded 
at this act, which was regarded by some as infamous 
treason to the Fatherland. Universal sorrow fiUed the 
land. The Reformed assembled in Zurich and sent am- 
bassadors to the Catholic cantons offering reconciliation. 
But they were everywhere badly received, especially in. 
Unterwalden, and returned to Ziirich. The treaty with 
Austria contained this clause : " Whoever originates 
new sects shall be punished by death. If it be necessary, 
Austria will assist in executing the law." Carried away 
by this condition of the treaty, the people of the four 
forest cantons wantonly broke the Federal peace. 

On the 22d of May, 1529, Pastor Jacob Kaiser went 
to Oberkirchen, intending to preach. In passing through 
a forest . he was beset by six Roman Catholics, dragged 
away to Schwyz, and on the 26th of May condemned 
to death at the stake. In vain did Ziirich and Glarus 
interpose on his behalf. He died the death of a martyr, 
•joyfully confessing his Lord at the stake. That was the 
signal to a premeditated war, which soon broke out. 
A cry of anger rang out through all Switzerland. Zwin- 



THE FIEST WAE 01' KAPPEL. 157 

gli foresaw that peace could no longer be maintained. 
He regarded it to be an imperative duty to put an end 
to the uncertain condition of affairs on account of which 
so many innocent persons were obliged to suffer. 
Hence he declared himself publicly in Ziirich, and also 
wrote to his friends in Berne : " The existing peace 
which many continue to favor is really war ; the war 
that I desire is peace. There is no security for the truth, 
nor any safety for its confessors, unless the very pillars 
of tyrannical government are overthrown. Undoubtedly 
we are called upon to trust in God alone, but we are also 
called upon to defend our righteous cause, and, like 
Gideon and Joshua, pour out our blood for God and 
Fatherland." 

Upon Zwingli lay the burden of the welfare of Church 
and Fatherland. His highest aim was to secure the free- 
dom of the preaching of the Gospel throughout all Switz- 
erland. A few days after the death of Pastor Kaiser 
throngs of refugees arrived in Zurich from the oppressed 
districts. Canton Unterwalden, _ supported by Austria,! 
had declared war against the free provinces and de-l 
spatched an armed force against them under the comJ 
mand of Ahaber, of Unterwalden. Whereupon Canton 
Zurich declared war against Schwyz. In this declara- 
tion of war the following causes were assigned : That 
the Eeformed had been persecuted without right or 
reason ; that the Confederate treaties of peace were no 
longer respected ; and that Pastor Kaiser had been 
burned at the stake. A force of 500 men with four guns 
was sent from Zurich to meet Ahaber at Bremgarten, 
and to protect the free provinces in their religious liber- 
ties. Ziirich's banner waved over cloister Muri. The 
war had begun. Roman Catholics confronted Reformed 
in battle array. 



158 THE LIFE OF L'LRIC ZWINGLI. 

A force of GOO men from Ziiricli marched upon Kap- 
persehwyl, and another of 400, commanded by Captain 
George Berger, and accompanied by Chaplain Conrad 
Schmidt, of Kiissnacht, advanced upon Kappel. Upon 
this Zwingli declared : " Since my brethren risk their 
own lives in the conflict, I shall not remain seated alone 
at the hearthstone ;" and, seizing his halberd he 
mounted his horse and rode to the seat of war. Ziirich 
appealed to Beme for assistance. But envy at Zurich's 
growing influence inspired this reply: "Alone ye' 
began the conflict ; see ye to it how ye shall end it." 
The Roman Catholics, on the contrary, proceeded 
differently. As soon as Canton Zug issued its appeal for 
assistance, Schwyz, Luzerne, Uri, and Unterwalden re- 
sponded and hastened to extend the required aid. The 
army of Ziirich, about 1000 strong, stood in battle array 
before Zug. A messenger was sent to tlie army of the 
latter to notify them that they (Ziirich) were ready for 
the conflict. But the forces of Zug were dismayed 
because they were not yet ready for battle. By subter- 
fuge Zug sought to gain time in order to strengthen its 
forces. A messenger is sent to Kappel. The army of 
Ziirich is on the point of advancing into the territory of 
Zug. At that moment they behold a horseman riding 
in great haste from the direction of Baar. It was Aebli, 
the chief magistrate of Glarus. He had returned to ask 
for a truce, with a view to peace negotiations, on be- 
half of his own enemies ! The latter had impressed him 
with their expressed sorrow at the prospect of bloodshed 
when there was reaUy nothing in the way to hinder their 
living together in peace. The kind-hearted Aebli did not 
perceive that their object was to gain time to secure rein- 
forcements. But his intercession for the enemy- met 
with a favorable response. Zwingli, however, penetrated 



THE FTKST WAR OF KAPPEL. 159 

their designs,- and in the presence of the officers of thd 
army said to Aebli 1 " Father Magistrate, God will call 
you to account for this proposed intercession. Our ene- 
mies are in a dilemma, hence they favor us with kind 
words. A little later-on, when they are fully prepared, 
they will suddenly surprise us with an attack, and then 
no one will intercede for them." To this Aebli replied : 
" Dear Father, I trust in God that all will go well. Let 
us do our best." Saying this he rode away, and the at- 
tack upon the enemy did not take place. The army of 
Ziirich encamped close to the outposts of the five forest 
cantons. But Zwingli was filled with forebodings. 
Seated in his ^tent, in fear and silence, he momentarily 
expected danger. " In moments of real danger Zwin- 
gli was certainly fearless, but he had a horror of shed- 
ding blood, even that of his deadliest enemy. His heart 
was alone concerned about the liberty of his Fatherland, 
the virtues of our fathers, and the honor of Christ. I 
speak the truth as in God's presence." Thus intimately 
was Myconius acquainted with his beloved Zwingli. 

In the mean while Canton Berne offered to raise 5000 
men to chastise Ziirich in case of necessity ! The Swiss 
Diet was assembled in Aarau. This was the swift mes- 
sage that Aebli carried from the Council at Ziirich to 
the army in the field. Zwingli 's fears were being real- 
ized. Tet he comforted both himself and the army 
when he said : " Our future destiny depends upon our 
courage." 

While the hostile forces thus confronted each other, 
Ziirich, Thurgau, and St. Gall on the one side, Zug and 
Yallis on the other, a scene transpired between the out- 
posts of the two armies which recalled the glory of an- 
cient Switzerland, worthy to be remembered forever. A 
few hungry soldiers of the army of Zug were captured 



160 THE LIFE OF ULEIC ZWINGLI. 

by the forces of Zuricli, and after being well supplied 
with provisions they were sent back with the fraternal 
assurance that they were associates and brothers of a 
common Patherland. At another time the Catholic out- 
posts placed a pail of milk outside of the line, and cried 
out to the Reformed : " We have milk, but no bread." 
Thereupon the men of Zurich brought the needed bread to 
their enemies, who crumbled it into the milk, and joyfully 
ate it, although the Catholics had been ordered by their 
priests never to eat with heretics. 

The Swiss Diet adjourned from Aarau to Steinhausen, 
a Catholic village in the vicinity of both armies, and re- 
solved that the claims of both parties should be heard, 
r Zurich demanded that the "Word of God might be 
preached without hindrance in the entire Confederacy, 
yet that no one should be compelled to renounce the 
mass, nor even pictures. Also that no one should be 
permitted to enter the military service of the Pope, the 
Emperor, or the King of France, or of any other foreign 
potentate: And finally that Canton Schwyz should be 
obliged to pay the sum of one thousand florins to the 
children of the martyred Pastor Kaiser. At the same 
time Zwingli admonished the Council of Zurich to con- 
clude naught but an honorable peace. But such a peace 
was only then attainable when it would be impossible for 
foreign princes, by the use of money, to buy up men all 
over Switzerland. 

On the 26th of June, 1529, the treaty of peace was 
signed. The principal feature or condition of the treaty 
was this : That neither party should attack the other 
because of any article of religion, and that the districts 
hitherto under the common government of both parties 
might decide by a majority vote for or against the Bef- 
ormation. The forest cantons were called upon to give 



THE PIEST WAR OF KAPPEL. 161 

Tip their alliance witli Austria, and to surrender the writ- 
ten documents containing the terms of the said treaty. 
Canton Berne added the proviso that if these writings 
were not immediately surrendered they would be sent 
for ! Early in the morning of the 26th of June the 
documents arrived, and were read in the presence of the 
assembled forces. __ 

In concluding this treaty of peace between the con- 
tending parties Zwingli's warning voice was not heeded. 
His heart was uneasy over -the result. And indeed it 
was a worthless peace. It lasted but two years three 
months and fourteen days. Full of gloomy thoughts, 
he looked forward into the future. He was conscious 
of having done his duty before God and man in having 
warned his Fatherland in the hour of danger. Before 
leaving Kappel and the glorious mountain scenery of 
Albis, he composed a hymn, which was afterward sung 
on the battle-fields of Switzerland, as well as in the 
palaces of kings and in the dwellings of the people, for 
Zwingli's hymns were popular among all classes. 

Now mouat the chariot, O Lord, 

We know not where to go. 
Thy hand mnst now uplift the sword 

And smite the haughty foe. 

God, for Thy honor and our land 

Blast Satan's progeay, 
And teach Thy faithful flock to stand 

Ever more firm in Thee. 

To bitter strife, O put an end ! 

And waken love anew ; 
Kind hearts to parted brethren send, 

Old feelings warm and true. 

Soon indeed it was seen that peace thus established 
was a deceptive one. In the course of a few months it 



1G3 THE LIFE OF ULKIO ZWINGLI. 

appeared, that tlie Papists interpreted the conditions of 
the treaty in a different sense from that in which they 
were understood. They continued to persecute the Re- 
formed, and to drive them into exile. Zwingli and the 
Reformation were derided. It was now publicly con- 
ceded that the peace of Kappel was premature — indeed 
that it would yet be necessary to regain the ancient liber- 
ties by force of arms. 

In the mean while the Emperor Charles Y., having 
formed a more intimate union with the Pope, arrived in 
Germany and opened the Diet of Augsburg. On ac- 
count of Protestant dissensions the papal party expected 
the best results. The Swiss Romanists sent an embassy 
to the Diet, which Avas graciously received by the Em- 
peror, and which served the more to increase their bold- 
ness. Zwingli sent a confession of faith from the Re- 
formed party, which awakened a feeling of opposition, 
if not of hatred. The Saxon theologians declined all 
union with the Swiss Reformed. Bucer proposed a 
compromise formula, which, however, was rejected by. 
Luther and Zwingli. Melanchthon, on the other hand, 
was conferring with Dr. Eck, the Romanist, with a view 
to reunion. For all these reasons the enemies of Zwin- 
gli in Switzerland believed that they would soon gain 
their object, and hence they used every opportunity to 
break the conditions of the treatyijoi Kappel. A second 
war was impending. Zwingli, the powerful friend of 
the Fatherland, vainly endeavored to prevent it. 



CHAPTER XX. 



Z-WINGLI AT HOME. 



While ZwingK was born at Wildliaiis, in Toggenburg, 
in 1484, Anna Keinhard was born in the same year in 
Ziirich. At tlie age of twenty she was married to John 
Meier, son of Councillor Gerald Meier, of Knonan, in 
Canton Zurich. Councillor Meier sent his son to Con- 
stance to be educated at the Episcopal court, and had 
also planned to provide him with a wife. But John, 
without his father's knowledge, espoused Anna Rein- 
hard. This marriage caused an irreconcilable separation 
between father and son, and induced John Meier to 
enter the foreign military service. In the year 1517 
he returned from an Italian campaign sick and dis- 
abled, and soon after died. His widow, Anna Meier, 
retired from the world and devoted herself to the educa- 
tion of her three children, two girls and a boy. The 
latter, named Gerald, received his education at the 
church seminary in Ziirich. He soon developed distin- 
guished talents united with piety and a retired disposi- 
tion. Zwingli inferred that the quiet and pious disposi- 
tion of the boy implied a good home training, and that 
this signified a good mother. 

Zwingli was not mistaken. He was publicly married 
to the widow, Anna Meier, on the 2d of April, 1524. 
Four children were bom to them — two sons and two 
daughters. The oldest child, Regula, was married in 
1541 to Rudolph Gwaltlier, the second successor of 



164 THE LIFE OF ULRIC ZWINQLI. 

Zwingli and the first editor of his writings. Slie died in 
the year 1565, of the plague. Zwingli's youngest child, 
Anna, died in youth. His oldest son, William, was 
born in 1526, and died at the age of fifteen years, being 
at the time a student of theology in Strasburg. TJlric, 
Zwingli's second son, was borri in 1528, and afterward 
became pastor and Professor of Theology in Ziirich. 
He died at the age of forty-three, in the year 1571. He 
also had a son named TJlric, who likewise became Profes- 
sor of Theology, and died at the age of tWenty-nine, in 
the year 1600. With his death the male line of the 
family of Zwingli became extinct. The' flourishing 
family at present living in Canton Zurich are descend- 
ants of one of Zwingli's brothers, who established him- 
self at EUy. 

Zwingli was found at home in plain attire, in a coin- 
fortable clerical gown and hat. He was always of a 
cheerful countenance, revealing the manly courage of a 
hero, and friendly to every one that called upon him. 
At times he would be stirred by a righteous indignation 
at some exhibition of hypocrisy, obstinacy, or igno- 
rance. But the storm-clouds of anger soon passed away 
before the beams of that truth which he remembered, 
that we all sin frequently. 

In his maimer of living Zwingli preferred the greatest 
simplicity. His wife Anna, who possessed many costly 
garments, as Zwingli writes, "no longer touched the 
plunder, much less, wore it for display. As it becomes a 
good housewife, she dresses like the wives of the com- 
mon citizen, simply and well, that no one will notice her 
former rank." 

The early morning hours were spent in devotion, in 
prayer, and in meditation upon the Word of God. 
Thus he prepared himself, by personal communion with 



2WIN6LI AT UOME. 165 

God, for the many arduous labors of the day, that he, 
owing to his extraordinary spiritual gifts, attended to 
with marvellous rapidity. But there were times when 
he labored not only till midnight, but indeed through 
the entire night. For in addition to his daily sermons 
and scholastic work, to his care for Church and school, 
to the labor of answering letters from at home and 
abroad, there was added special care for the poor, the 
sick, and the exiled refugees that flocked to Ziirich. 
Besides all this, he wrote many large volumes in Ger- 
man, Latin, and Greek, which he bequeathed to his 
Church and Fatherland. Who does not behold in all this 
the iron constitution of this great man and his wise divi- 
sion of time into periods of work, rest, and recreation ! 
If Zwingli himself could not spare the tiitie, his wife en- 
tertained his guests. She took an active interest in all 
that concerned Church and Fatherland. Zwingli could 
not cause her greater joy than to read to her from his 
latest writings, or when he translated to her beautif uT 
passages from the old Greek and Latin poets. She 
valued as a precious gift the first proof-sheets of the 
Ziirich Bible which Zvringli and Leo Juda translated 
into Swiss-German, and which was completed in the year 
1530. As soon as the proof-sheets of a form were at 
ha,nd, she would have Zwingli read the same to her, 
if she had been obliged to wait until after midnight. 
And as they both revered God, so they induced the in- 
mates of their household to follow their example, to the 
effect that visitors joyfully remembered the hours spent 
in their home. The Silesian Chancellor, Nicholas 
Arator, long after Zwingli's death, writes as follows : 
" In Zwingli's household, among these dear friends, I 
was so well pleased with their Christian family life that 
I can never forget it as long as I live, and that I shall 



166 THE LIFE OF ULEIC ZWINOLI. 

always commend it to my own. More especially did he 
recommend the habit of prayer to all who visited him. 
For, said he, if we grow wiser and more learned in our 
intercourse with wise and learned persons, how much 
more will we gain in our inner life by communing with 
God in prayer." 

But besides such serious moments, Zwingli spent many 
a happy hour at the cradle of his children, singing with 
them their youthful songs, or accompanying them upon 
some musical instrument. Among the many instru- 
ments which he could play, the lute w^^s his favorite. 
For his own comfort" and joy he composed many a song 
and hymn, both music and words. Rome found fault 
with, and even Faber criticised his music. Yet he was 
not pained by this reproach. To Faber he wrote : "I 
make good use of my musical knowledge, which I 
steadily practised from my youth, both to cheer my 
children and to put them to sleep. ' ' Even Socrates in his 
old age grew young again after he had begun to play the 
harp. And as at the cradle and in the family circle, so 
did he make good use of his musical knowledge in the 
circle of his friends that were accustomed to assemble at 
his house on Sunday afternoons. Many of his personal 
clerical friends- and many of the town Council, accom- 
panied hy their wives, spent the afternoon at his home. 
But all centred about God's "Word, which his own soul 
found so precious in times of sorrow that he could not 
refrain from recommending it most heartily to his confi- 
dential friends. After reading the Scriptures and edify- 
ing conversation upon the same, the time was spent in 
friendly talk, interspersed with cheering song, usually 
conducted by Leo Juda. 

These afternoon meetings of song and praise gave rise 
in later times to the popular songs and sacred hymns as 



ZWINGLI AT HOME. 167 

they are still sung, after tlie lapse of tliree centuries, in 
four voices or parts, all over Switzerland. In both the 
high and the common schools of the Canton of Ziirich 
the singing of church chorals and patriotic songs in four 
voices is obligatory. The hymns of all the hymn-books 
of the Reformed Cantons of Switzerland are set to four 
parts or voices. f 

In the psalpit or before the Council, among the people 
or with the students and in his study, in his family or 
among his friends, wherever Zwingli was, he was sincere 
and true. His highest aim was to reconstruct the badly 
degenerated Church and to save the Fatherland from the 
brink of ruin. " According to my judgment, truth is for 
the human soul what the sun is for the world. "Wher- 
ever the sun arises it is joyfully greeted, and men pre- 
pare themselves cheerfully for work. In like manner 
the soul rejoices in the light of truth from whatsoever 
source it comes. It looks up and congratulates itself 
that the darkness of ignorance disappears before the 
splendor of truth. As there is nothing more welcome to 
the world than the sun, so there can be nothing lovelier, 
more precious, and higher to the human soul than the 
trath. Whoever brings the truth to light, becomes my 
friend, even if he disparage my name ; he enriches, 
blesses my soul, and fulfils its higher destiny." 

When Yadiau, burgomaster of St. Gall, in company 
with many riflemen, visited Ziirich to participate in a 
national festival, which the authorities had instituted in 
honor of his helpful services, Zwingli was among the 
number that welcomed their honored guests. He sat at 
the festive board and rejoiced that everything unworthy 
had been removed from such festivities, and that because 
of the purifying and sanctifying influence of the Gospel 
a faithful Christian could also participate in them. As 



170 THE LIFE OF DLRIC ZWINGLI. 

the all-controlling God, the greater is God in thee as 
the eternal, unchangeable power of all goodness." 

Such beautiful thoughts as these Zwingli expresses in 
numerous passages of his writings. They originated in 
his untiring study of the Holy Scriptures, as well as in 
his intimate communion with God in prayer. He felt 
perfectly assured of his possession of personal salvation. 
Eeconciled, united with God in Christ, possessed and 
impelled by His Spirit, he deserted neither the Church 
nor the Fatherland in trials. In times of need and pub- 
lic tribulation he was their firmest support, and continued 
to be the same until death ; although, had he yielded to 
the inclinations of the flesh, he- would rather have avoid- 
ed the conflicts. 

" It happens to us," said Zwingli, " as it happens to 
those at sea. In the beginning of their voyage the land 
seems to them to be of far greater extent than the sea. 
But the farther they sail upon the sea, the more and 
better they perceive how small a part of the whole earth 
the land really is. Thus it is with us : as long as we de- 
pend upon our own understandings, we know nothing of 
the works and ways of God. But when we remove our 
gaze from the earthly and fasten it upon the Divine, 
then we begin to learn of things that fill our minds with 
great amazement. But what is the sea of which I have 
been speaking, other than the Divine Providence and 
government over all things, the immeasurable and in- 
exhaustible power and activity of God ? Let us then 
leave the shores of earth and contemplate the works of 
God, and we shall behold glorious things. Let us con- 
sider the wonderful acts of God until we shall have 
become capable of appreciating still greater things. " 

These precious passages of Zwingli's concerning man's 
absolute dependence upon God show that such senti- 



Missing Page 



Missing Page 



ZWlNGLl'S TEACHINGS AlfD WHITINGS. 171 

ments, as in Zwingli himself, are not calculated to render 
men careless and secure, but rather humble and obedient 
to the Divine Word. "lie that is filled with God's 
Spirit," says Zwingli, " he advises, assists, is always 
busy about the welfare of his neighbor, always desires 
to do something good and useful, never ceases his benev- 
olent activity, is untiring in every good work, and is 
anxiously eoncerned lest he do less than he should. 
God's Spirit works in the hearts of the pious ; they re- 
semble a mill upon a hill, that is rendered active by the 
blowing of the wind. Let us remember that we are in- 
struments of the Divine activity, whom God employs to 
execute that which He has in mind. With zeal and 
dihgence we are to undertake our work, never grow 
weary over it, not forsake the Divine work, nor merely 
celebrate holy day, but rather lay hold upon and help in 
all things. 

" Eeligion had its origin," continues Zwingli, " at the 
t-ime when God recalled fugitive man, who otherwise 
would have remained a fugitive. For God pitied the 
perverseness of his flight and the dismay of his soul ; 
He regarded him as a faithful father, who, although he 
hates the folly and the presumption of the son. yet he 
can never hate the son himself ; but graciously ^alls the 
last and despaii'ing one : ' Adam, where art thou ? ' 
O wonderful, inexpressible mercy of our heavenly 
Father ! He thus asks, in order that man may always 
remember in what condition an all-merciful God found 
him, and out of which He called him. Here, I main- 
tain, stood the cradle of religion. Unhappy man saw 
that he had merited naught but God's wrath, and, de- 
spairing, he fled fronri God. But behold the Father's 
fidelity to the unfaithful son ! He pursues hhn, and 
overcomes his resistance amid his obstinate endeavors. 



172 THE LIFE OF ULKIO ZWINGLI. 

What is this other than fidelity to the son ? And thus, 
until this very day, originates the fidelity of God, and is 
exercised for our benefit. And only then is it God's 
complete fidelity when we are converted to Him who 
delivers us from oxir own counsels. But oh ! the un- 
happy human father that pursues the son with uninter- 
rupted kindness, but whose efforts are in vain ! Yet not 
so with our Divine Father. For whomsoever He calls 
is obliged to answer, whether he will or wiU not, as is 
proven in the case of Adam the disobedient one, David 
the adulterer and murderer, and Paul the persecutor. 
Hence religion consists in this : God leads man to ac- 
knowledge his disobedience, sin, and misery, not less 
than Adam, and especially to see why it is that he de- 
spairs of himself. At the same time God reveals the 
fulness of His benevolence, in order that man may see 
that there is a certain hope and abundant grace prepared 
by his Creator and Father for him, by virtue of which 
he can never be separated from Him. Such a depend- 
ence, therefore, by which man trusts God alone, as 
the only Good, who can relieve us of our troubles, turn 
away from us all evil, or else overrale it to His honor 
and to our good — this is fidelity, piety, and religion." 

Actuated by so great degree of piety, Zwingli regard- 
ed the Scriptures of the Old and the New Testaments 
as the inviolable Word of God, i.e. the sacred writings 
of both Testaments are the inspired Word of God. Not 
human historical evidence or proof, not the testimony of 
the ancient Church, but alone the Divine impression 
which the believer receives from the Scriptures, our 
spiritual life being assisted thereby, and the testimony 
of the Holy Spirit to that effect can establish the firm 
conviction in the inspira,tion of the Bible. 

Zwingli left a large number of writings, especially 



ZWINGLl'S TEACHINGS AND -WRITINGS. 173 

exegetical treatises upon the books of the Old and the 
New Testaments. The stormy times of his experience 
as Reformer for a period of thirteen years afforded him 
but little time to arrange and perfect his writings, as a 
man of letters would like to have done. They were 
composed amid great diiBculties. They are, however, a 
precious and valuable testimony of the great spirit that 
dwelt in him. 

The iirst edition of his writings, though not perfectly 
complete, comprising four volumes in folio, appeared in 
1545, and was edited by his son-in-law, R. Gwalther. 
In 1581 a new Latin edition was published. In the 
year 1530 appeared his renowned translation of the 
Bible, which remains to this day one of the best ver- 
sions extant, and enjoys a large circulation among the 
Swiss and the German Reformed in the United States. 
In 1536 there appeared an edition of his writings, in 
folio, and in 1592, in quarto, in Basel, both, however, 
incomplete. An enlarged and improved edition of his 
complete works was published in Ziiricli in 1828-42, 
edited by M. Schuler and J. Schulthess, under the name 
and title: " Huldreich Zwingli's Werke." L. Usteri 
and S. Yoegelin issued his select works, in 3 volumes, in 
1819. 

The following biographies have appeared, all in Ger- 
man : Niischeler, 1776 ; J. C. Hess, 1810 ; J. M. 
Schuler, 1819 ; Roder, 1855 ; R. Christoffel, 1857 ; 
Hundeshagen, 1862 ; Sporri, 1866 ; Morikofer, 1867. 



CHAPTER XXII. 



The unhappy consequences of the peace signed at 
Kappel, which the clear insight of Zwingli had foreseen 
with misgivings, were soon realized. Berne indeed had 
rejoiced, and Ziirieh had celebrated . festivals because no 
blood had been shed. But Zwingli's soul mourned, for 
he thoxight that, although the people now rejoiced, the 
time would come when they would all lament over this 
alleged triumph. The words which he spake in 'the pul- 
pit were Avords of prophetic warning to Ziirich and her 
allies : " The peace concluded at Kappel will yet lead to 
it that we shall wring our hands because of trouble and 
sorrow." And so it came to pass. Berne had rejoiced 
at the victory, and Ziirich had returned home in joy. 
But the five forest cantons had left the field embittered 
against their enemies. They had vowed to remain eter- 
nally true to the old faith. The terms of the ratified 
treaty of peace were regarded by them as an unbearable 
yoke, and were interpreted by them with a different 
meaning than that attached to them by Ziirich. In fact 
the treaty of peace proved a burden to them. "We 
shall have no rest," said they, "until we have broken 
every fetter and regained our former freedom. " 

On the 8th of January, 1531, the Swiss Diet assem- 
bled in Baden, at which the representatives of the five 
forest cantons declared that they would not again appear 
in the Diet unless the unlawful efforts at evangelization 



ZWINGLI'S DEATH AX KAPPEL. 175 

set fortK and encouraged by Zurich were put an end to ; 
indeed in case of necessity they might alone undertake 
to punish such efforts by the use of force. On the other 
hand, Zurich coniplained that the clause of the treaty 
forbidding aspersions, "in order that new dissensions 
may not be caused through misrepresentations giving rise 
to greater disorders, ' ' was being continually violated by 
Canton Sehwyz. But in this very matter lay a spark 
of fire which was to enkindle the flames and lead to the 
beginning of the second war of Kappel. 

To curb the tongues of the Koman Catholic cantons 
was an impossibility. Through all their valleys they 
cried out : " Zwingli is a murderer and an arch-heretic, 
provoking most fearful scenes of disorder ; the men of 
Zurich are all heretics, guilty of horrible sins." A pen- 
sioner ran about the streets, shouting that he WOuld not 
rest until he had plunged his sword into the breast of 
the godless heretic, Zwingli. The Reformed and the 
cause of Reformation were publicly insulted. In Canton 
Schwyz, however, their behavior was the worst of all. 
The Reformed were not Only insulted, but shamefully 
abused. The enemies of the Reformation appeared in a 
local assembly with fir-branches in their hats as a sign of 
war, without remonstrance on the part of any one. The 
five Catholic cantons prepared themselves for the conflict 
they had already contemplated. Haughtily they looked 
down upon the heretical cantons. On all sides was 
heard the clanking of sword and cuirass. Under such 
circumstances the Reformed cantons were of necessity 
obliged to bestir themselves. 

In February a Swiss Diet met in Basel, in March in 
Ziirich, and on the 10th of April a general assembly of 
all the cantons was convened in Baden. But nothing 
was accomplished at any of these meetings that could 



176 THE LIFE 03? ULKIC ZWIKGLI. 

have preserved peace between the two parties. Zurich 
demanded the free preaching of the Gospel everywhere 
in Switzerland. On the other hand, the five forest can- 
tons kissed the Pope's foot and the hands of the Ans- 
trians, whose Emperor sent them weekly messages, ex- 
horting them boldly to resist the Reformed, and assuring 
them of his certain assistance. 

War was unavoidable. Zwingli recognized this fact. 
His heart beat for the welfare of Church and State of the 
Fatherland. The blood of the ancient Swiss coursedi 
through his veins ; he felt as they did, that it was the 
highest honor for a man to live and die for his native 
land. It was his wish that energetic measures might be 
taken, before the Emperor, who was engaged in a war 
with the Turks, might come to the assistance of the 
Eoman Catholic cantons. On the 12th of May, 1531, 
a meeting was held in Aarau. Zurich advocated war. 
Berne proposed a blockade of the frontier lines, forbid- 
ding the admission of grain, wine, salt, iron, and steel 
within the lines of the Koman Catholic cantons, and thus 
avoiding bloodshed. They claimed that the end sought 
would thus be reached. Zurich, on the contrary, re- 
1 garded this proposition to be unwise, because an oppor- 
\tumty would thus be afEordod to the enemy to rally their 
\forces, and indeed would compel them to attempt sorties 
nn order to provide themselves with the needed articles. 
jThe innocent would suffer with the guilty, friends 
would be converted into enemies, and thousands would 
unnecessarily be deprived of all food. But in vain were 
Zurich's representations. By resolution of the 15th of 
May, the frontier lines were closed against all trade and 
traffic. Zurich yielded, and Zwingli mourned. 

On the following Sunday he preached openly and 
earnestly against this unrighteous and unwise measure. 



ZWINGLl'S DEATH AT KAPPEL. 177 

He was profoundly convinced that, not only as minister 
but also as Christian citizen, the right and the duty de- 
volved upon him to punish and to hinder all unchris- 
tian proceedings, even if authorized by the government, 
so far as God should give him power and opportunity. 
Among other things he said in his sermon : " You men 
of Ziirich forbid all food to the five cantons as 
ye would to inalefactors. You had better follow up 
your threats with an emphatic blow, rather than starve 
poor, innocent people. You think there is no sufiicient 
cause or reason for punishing them, and yet you refuse 
them food and drink, thereby nevertheless compelling 
them to resort to arms, cross the borders, and inflict 
punishment upon you. And thus it will come to pass." 
Zwingli's view was clear ; his sorrow over the measures 
adopted was just and right. Soon enough the forest 
cantons seized their swords, sharpened their halberds,, 
and marched in the direction of Berne and Ziirich with 
the cry : " They have closed our highways, but we shall 
open them by force." Catholic France endeavored to 
preserve peace between the contending parties, but at 
the same time did not neglect secretly to instigate the 
forest cantons not to yield an inch in their demands. 
Again the Diet assembled, but again without accomplish- 
ing anything. Added to all this, a time of famine op- 
pressed the land. And not only in the Koman Catholic 
forest cantons, but also in Ziirich, the poor suffered 
severely ; the more so since extortionate tradesmen 
sought to profit by the hard times, and rich money- 
lenders by their usurious exactions. Zwingli energeti- 
cally resisted these unrighteous acts, and procured the 
adoption of certain rules and regulations to which millers 
and bakers were subjected, and by which all usurers and 
extortioners should be punished. All persons thus re- 



178 THE LIFE OF ULRIC ZWIKGLI. 

stricted became Zwlngli's enemies, plotted and worked 
against him wherever they could. Monks, pensioners, 
nobles, and discontented persons generally united and 
made common cause against him, in order to overthrow 
him. With heavy grief Zwingli observed the manipula- 
tions of these allied parties. Great sorrow filled his 
spul. His heart was burdened with the thought that 
Me who had never sought his own, -but who had always 
labored for the present and eternal welfare of the people, 
/for Church and Fatherland, should thus ungraciously be 
jtreated. 

Filled with pain and sorrow, Zwingli appeared before 
the Great Council of Zurich, on the 26th of July, and 
spoke with his heart deeply stirred : " For a period of 
eleven years I have preached, to you the Gospel, faith- 
fully and paternally warning you against the dan ers 
which threaten our Confederacy, should the five can- 
tons — ^that is, the throng that lives upon foreign pensions 
and subsidies — ^gain the upper hand. But all this seems 
to be of no consequence to you ; for you continue to add 
those to your Council who long for such blood-money. 
But such men are the beat friends of the five cantons 
and the most dangerous enemies of the Gospel. But 
you will not obey the truth, and yet hold me responsible 
for all the evil that happens. I desire therefore that 
you will accept my resignation. I will provide for my- 
self in some other way.^' Zwingli then departed, his 
eyes being filled with tears. 

But the Council was very much disconceirted at this 
turn of affairs. Every member of the Council felt 
deeply moved, and the respect entertained for him so 
many years was newly aroused. All acknowledged that 
with Zwingli's departure a great misfortune would befall 
both Church and State. "To loss him now," said 



ZWINGll'S DEATH AT KAPPEL. 179 

every one, " would be ruinous to Ziiricli. A committee, 
consisting of the burgomaster and several magistrates, 
was appointed to call upon Zwingli at his home, and to 
persuade him to withdraw his resignation. This was 
done on the same day, and Zwingli demanded three days 
for further consideration. 

For three days and three nights the soul of this great 
man was agonized to find the right solution to the ques- 
tion. He well saw that the statesmen, with all their 
political wisdom and half-heartedness, liad so confused 
the situation, had furthered dissensions and party spirit, 
and had so strengthened the enemy, that nothing short 
of some stirring event or some grievous providence 
could bring deliverance. That he himself would fall as 
a sacrifice he recognized as a probabihty. How much 
more agreeable then would it have been for him to insist 
upon his resignation, and to retire, either to the hills of 
Toggenburg, to Wildhaus, or elsewhere. Yet the great 
man could not and would not forsake his Fatherland in 
the hour of national danger. At last the sacrifice was 
brought and tremblingly laid upon the altar. All evil 
directed against him he left to the just Judge, and anew 
d,evoted himself unreservedly to the service of God. 

After the lapse of three days Zwingli again appeared 
before the Council and declared : " Because you have 
promised to do better I shall .remain with you, and by 
God's grace shall labor for Hhe weKare of the people 
until the end of myhfe." New courage and zeal im- 
pelled him from this time forth) and he developed a re- 
markable activity for the spread of the Gospel, notwith- 
standing the numerous labors which tlie pastoral office 
imposed upon him, which he attended to from the year 
1619 onward. Zwingli lived in the immovable' faith 
that the Word of God is the only and thorough means 



180 THE LIF.E OF ULRIG ZWIN-GLI. 

of salvation for all the failings and shortcomings of Ms 
Fatherland, not only for the Church but also for the 
State. Hence he could, not relinquish the hope that all 
Switzerland might yet he won for the Gospel. He 
never doubted the -willingness of the people of the 
mountain cantons to receive the Gospel, and in spite of 
all reproaches and accusations on their part his heart beat 
warmly for them until his death. 

At the Synods of Frauenfeld, in the years 1529 and 
1530, he was received with distinguished honors in the 
presence of 400 clergymen. He was also summoned to 
attend the synods of St. Gall and Toggenburg, in order 
to assist in the reconstruction of Church relations. He 
■preached in the presence of enthusiastic multitudes, and 
received their confidence and reverence to a high degree. 
In St. Gall the people assembled before his quarters and 
expressed their gratitude to him in vocal and instrumen- 
tal music. The eyes of all that loved the truth re- 
garded him. From him, as from a prophet of God, 
they expected counsel and admonition, correction and 
comfort. 

Notwithstanding this extraordinaiy activity, he was 
very busy at this time in preparing exegetical commen- 
taries upon Isaiah and Jeremiah. In the summer of 
1531 both volumes appeared in print. In many respects 
his own position resembled that of these prophets. He 
looked into the future, and the nearer the impending 
storm threatened himself and the Church, the more cer- 
tain was he that God would fulfil His promises to His 
chosen people. The Word of God was his only i-ule in 
all activity, so that he was ready rather to lose his life 
than to yield in the least to forcible measures employed 
against God and His Word. Hence he so clearly view- 
ed the duty that God imposed upon him, without the 



ZWIKGLl'S DEATH AT KAPPEri, 181 

least wavering at tbe thouglit of approacliing tribulation. 
He continually sought to penetrate into the hidden mys- 
teries of God, and acted, in view of the needs of his 
Fatherland, like one that has his home, his citizenship 
above. In his last commentary, published shortly be- 
fore the breaking out of war, he writes (Jeremiah 
33 : 2) the ever-memorable words : " Here we mjist 
well censider the higher necessity that controls the 
prophets. Is it not evident treason to advise those who 
desire to save themselves to go over to the enemy ? 
Could treason be otherwise so clearly expressed than it is 
iu these words? When God commands us to do that 
which conflicts with the views of all men, when He en- 
joins us to do that which human laws forbid, then we 
find ourselves in a dilemma. But a soul that fears and 
honors God cares nothing for the threats of the world. 
To further the Council of God is its chief concern. . . . 
Let us be courageous then in the work of the renewal of 
the Church of Christ and the restoration of a Christian 
government, even if sorrows and dangers confront us, 
even if we shall not live to see the successful result. 
The Judge sees us, and will crown us after the conflict. 
Others upon earth will rejoice in the fruits of our suffer- 
ing, while we shall enjoy our eternal reward in heaven !" 
Because of the distinguished honors that were paid 
him on his synodical visits to the mountain cantons, 
Zwingli had deceived himself in concluding that they 
would gladly receive the Gospel. He overlooked the 
fact that these ancient Catholic cantons clung with tenac- 
ity to 1;he old faith and customs. Yet his self-deception 
was honorable and touching to a very high degree, for it 
showed his whole-hearted love for the Fatherland. He 
feltiimself called of God to secure the free proclama- 
tion of the Gospel for all Christians in general, 3ji4 t^^^ 



183 THE LIFE OF ULRIC ZWISTGLl. 

in particular for the people of the five forest cantons, 
in order to lead them on this way to true Swiss liberty. 
The prospect of an imminent tragic end did not cause 
him to fear, but rather quickened his courage ; for to be 
chosen of God and deemed worthy to die for His cause, 
he regarded to be the Christian's greatest crown of vic- 
tory. 

As Zwingli had correctly foreseen, the restriction of 
articles of food liad done more harm than good. The 
forest cantons, instead of being humbled, grew more ob- 
stinate and at the same time more united. The Reform- 
ed cantons knew not what course to pursue. If they 
raised the blockade, it would signify that they had 
gained nothing, or that they were neither united nor 
strong enough to go further and attempt an attack. If 
they did not raise the blockade, no one could tell what 
the end would be. The five cantons were already so de- 
fiant that they would no longer listen to moderate de- 
mands, but insisted first of all upon an immediate re- 
moval of the restriction. 

Zwingli advised again and again that this should be 
done, and repeatedly expressed his regret that his advice 
had not been followed. It appeared to him, as he had 
often recommended, that an -occupation of the Eoman 
Catholic cantons would be less objectionable, and also 
less injurious to the spread of the Gospel, than the pro- 
liibition of traffic in provisions. Accompanied by Collin 
and "Werner Steiner, Zwingli attended the fourth session 
of the Diet at Bremgarten, although in so doing he ex- 
posed himself to fatal danger. Under cover of night he 
secretly reached the house of his friend Bullinger, and 
there conferred, before daybreak, with the delegates 
from Berne, and implored them to take the welfare of the 
entire Fatherland into consideration. Moved by the 



ZWINGLI'S DEATH AT KAPPEL. 1'83 

earnest representations of the Reformer, they promised 
to do their best to avert impending evils. If the dele- 
gates of the five Eoman Catholic cantons had known of 
Zwingli's presence, his days on earth would have been 
numbered. For this reason three members of the City 
Council guarded BuUinger's house during Zwingli's 
nightly visit. Before daybreak, Zwingli took leave of 
Bullinger at the gates of the city, where a heart-rending 
scene of sacred friendship marked their separation. 
Three times did Zwingli take leave of Bullinger, em- 
bracing him and weeping bitterly. Finally he blessed 
him, saying : " God bless you, dear Henry ; remain 
faithful to the Lord Jesus Christ and to His Church. ' ' 
He then rode away to Zurich. 

"When Zwingli arrived in Zurich he found the city in 
the greatest state of excitement. The minds of all were 
filled with apprehension at impending danger. Won- 
derful signs appeared in the heavens. On the western 
horizon was seen a comet, shining as if in a state of con- 
flagration, its pale yellowish light extending far toward 
the south. 

In the night of August 15th Zwingli stood with his 
friend George Miiller, the former Abbot of Wettingen, 
in the cathedral cemetery. To the question of the 
latter as to the significance of the appearance of the 
comet at this time, Zwingli replied : "It shines to light 
me and many a worthy man, who love to see truth and 
right triumph in the Confederacy, to our graves !" 

" Not indeed," answered his friend, " if it be God's 
will. God will not permit this to take place." 

" Tes, yes," responded Zwingli, "He will order it 
thus to verify the sign ! But when the rod is applied to 
the house of God, then woe be to the enemies of the 
Gospel ! God will maintain His cause, even if it should 



184: THE LIFD OF ULRIC ZWIJTGLI. 

appear as if all were on tlio verge of ruin. 1 have faith 
in our cause, for it is good and true. But I have little 
confidence in the people. Our only comfort is in 
God !" 

On the 3d of September the comet disappeared. 
It had been a terror to all Switzerland, and had been 
regarded as a sign of the wrath of God, signifying not 
only the shedding of blood, but the death of many 
learned and renowned men. 

Other wonderful signs were reported from the several 
cantons, but all of a similar fearful import. From the 
forest cantons was heard the cry : " War, war ! Blood, 
bjood !" Yet every one seemed to be at a loss what to 
do. Zwingli alone remained calm and self-possessed. 
As a champion of God, he received every warning. 
His soul-communion with God strengthened him. His 
heart was filled with that peace which the world cannot 
give. His faith rested in Him who once spoke to his 
disciples : " Peace I leave with you, my peace I give 
unto you. Not as the world giveth give I unto you. 
Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid " 
(John 14 : 27). 

Once more he lifted his warning voice from the pul- 
pit and appealed to the people : " The most faithful 
warnings are of no avail, and cannot save you. Tou 
prefer not to punish the foreign pensioners that so 
haughtily raise their heads among you. They have a 
strong support among yourselves. Your chains are 
forged ; there they are, link after link ; they are pre- 
pared to throttle me and many a pious soul of Zurich. 
All this is directed against me. But I am ready, and 
submit to the will of God. Yet these people shall not 
be my masters. You will not punish them, hence they 
will punish you. But God will protect His Holy Word' 



185 



and soon end their glorj^ May God protect and defend 
His Church !" 

Once more an attempt was made to preserve peace, 
but in vain. The forest cantons had already held an as- 
sembly in Luzerne and determined upon war. Yet 
Zurich seemed to remain careless. Whatever reports 
were received of the preparations of the Koman Catho- 
lic cantons, they were not credited nntil it was too late. 
In greatest quiet the Catholics guarded all the roads so 
that no communication could be had with Zurich. Her 
friends in Zug and Luzerne were themselves shut up in 
their valleys, as if imprisoned. Thus Ziirich remained 
■uninformed as to the resolutions passed by the forest 
cantons, until October 4th, when a message of warning 
was received in great haste from the cloister at Kappel : 
"Arm yourselves, and be on your guard." But the 
warning was not heeded. 

On Sunday, October 8th, 1531, Zwingli occupied his 
pulpit for the last time. On that day there arrived a 
messenger from the five cantons demanding their release 
from the Confederate covenant. Fear, indecision, and 
treachery prevailed in the city. The people seemed to 
have become cowardly, and their leaders wavering in 
their attachment. Zwingli alone stood firm and confi- 
dent. Immovable, he looked unto the Lord and upon 
eternal life with the victor's crowa, for he well knew 
that although God might veil His countenance He would 
never forget His own. Thereupon he addressed the 
wavering and despairing populace, as if he beheld the 
spectre of Rome rising from behind the Alps to deprive 
him and his friends of their faith : " That alone is our 
real treasure, to have God as our friend, whom neither 
death nor any earthly power can tear away from us. 
No, no ! I shall never deny my Saviour.'' 



186 THE LIFE OF ULRIC iWINGLI. 

On the 9t;]i of October it -^as reported that 10,000 
men had issued from the mountains and were marking 
their way with fire and blood through the free districts 
and up to Kappel. On Tuesday morning, the 10th of 
October, Captain George Goldli, a secret friend of the 
Catholics, was sent with 600 men to seize and hold the 
town of Kappel, distant about ten miles south of Zurich. 
The artillery did not follow until afternoon, the horses 
hot being ready, and was not assigned to a position on 
the field until the next morning. Reinforcements ar- 
rived from Meilen and Gruningen, so that the united 
forces amounted to 1200 men. 

At eleven o'clock the outposts reported an immense 
multitude approaching from the direction of the Ail- 
ment. Goldli marshalled his forces and formed a line of 
battle. They then knelt in prayer. 

On Wednesday, October 11th, 1531, the forces of the 
five cantons were arrayed upon the broad plains of Baar 
and prepared to advance. They had the advantage of 
position, having possession on their right of a highway, 
and being protected by a forest on their left. The soft 
ground of the meadows, on the other hand, was to their 
disadvantage, for thfe progress of their trains was im- 
peded ; and indeed they would have fallen into tRe 
hands of the forces of Ziirich had not Goldli, their com- 
mander, treacherously refused to permit an attack upon 
the enemy in his embarrassed position. 

In Zurich the great banner of the canton was raised on 
the town hall on the morning of the 11th of October, and 
all capable of bearing arms were summoned to assem- 
ble. During the night about 500 men had been sent to 
the free districts, and 400 men to Waedensschweil. On 
this account it was difficult to raise a large force for the 
main army, wliich in this hour of its greatest danger 



ZWINGLl'S DEATH AT KAPPEL. 187 

- ought to have numhered at least 4000 men. But a few 
hundred men gathered, and these in a disorganized con- 
dition ; some hastened to join the main army without 
their cominanders, while the remainder tarried until 
afternoon, took the oath of fealty, and slowly prepared 
themselves for the advance. The Council itself was still 
uncertain as to the wisest course to pursue. Zwingli ex- 
claimed : " If we tarry here much longer, 1 fear we shall 
arrive too late to be of any help to our own people. It 
is not right for us to wait and hear what our forces are 
suffering at Kappel. In God's name, I shall go down to 
our brave soldiers, to die with them or to help save them. ' ' 

" According to one of our ancient Swiss customs, the 
great standard dai-e not leave the city unless one of the 
cliief pastors will accompany it !" Such was the uni- 
versal cry. All eyes were now directed . upon Zwingli. 
Some said: "We cannot do without his counsel." 
Others replied : " "Who shall comfort us, if not Zwin- 
gli?" The Council now appointed him as cJiaplain of 
the army. He was obliged to take the field. The rem- 
nant of the yet available forces was assembled in the 
cathedral square, before the residence of the Reformer. 
At 11 o'clock he appeared at the door, accompanied by 
his weeping wife, children, and friends. His counte- 
nance was firm, but sad. Standing at the side of his 
horse, he said to his weeping wife : " The hour of part- 
ing is come ; the Lord wills it to be thus. Amen ! He 
will be with thee, with me, and with our children. " 

"And shall we never see each other again?" asked 
his wife, tremblingly. 

" If it be the Lord's will ! His will be done !" re- 
plied Zwingli. 

"And what will you bring back to us again?" in- 
quired his wife. 



188 THE LIFE OF ULKIO ZWINQLI. 

" Blessings after the dark night," responded Zwingli. 
As a dying one blesses his own, so did Zwingli bless his 
wife and children, committing them to the care of God. 
And kissing his children, and once more bidding his 
wife farewell, he mounted his horse and rode away. 

" We shall not see him again," remarked one stand- 
ing near. " The Lord protect him !" added another. 
" Ah !" said a third, " did he not bid farewell to Bul- 
linger in Bremgarten lately, as a man that is advancing 
unto death V And they never saw him again. 

Without looking back, Zwingli accompanied the small 
number of men that hastened to the relief of their be- 
sieged countrymen at Kappel, arriving at the latter 
place at 3 o'clock in the afternoon. The total strength 
of the army of Zurich amounted to 1800 men, while 
that of the five cantons was about 8000. It was 4 
o'clock in the afternoon, and the sun was about setting. 
The enemy had observed the reinforcements which the 
army of Zurich had received. They held a council of 
war, and resolved upon an immediate attack. With 
fierce outcries they advanced upon the forces of Zurich. 
A bloody conflict ensued. Twice they were driven 
back. While the foremost lines were bravely resisting 
the fierce attack in the front, the enemy executed a 
flank movement on the right, which struck terror into 
the rear lines, caused them to yield and take to flight. 
Those grouped about the banner, seeing this, also re- 
treated. The enemy, perceiving the success of his 
flank movement, returned to the attack in front, and 
now drove the broken lines of Zurich's army. Those 
that survived took to flight, pursued by their implacable 
foes. The dead, the wounded, and the dying filled the 
ditches and were thickly scattered by the way. The 
banners of the five cantons advanced prudently and with 



ZWIlTGLl'S DEATH AT KAPPiiL, 189 

closed ranks as far as Allement. The enemy was every- 
where successful. It was no longer a battle, but a ' 
slaughter upon the meadows of Kappel. Zurich had 
lost the day. , 

As the leaders of the five cantons passed over the bat- 
tle-field, they enjoyed the melancholy pleasure of recog- 
nizing among the dead of Ziirich the most resolute 
defenders of the Evangelical cause. Among the slain 
were 26 members of the two Councils and 98 citizens of 
Zurich, steadfast friends of the Reformation. Just as 
bravely fought and fell their brethren from the country 
districts, 500 in number. According to an old Swiss 
custom, the pastors of the congregations were obliged to 
accompany their countrymen to the field of battle. Of 
these that comforted their countrymen with the Gospel, 
25 fell by the sword. Of the 25 slain preachers, 7 were 
of the city and 18 from the country. Gaptain Goldli, 
that played the traitor on the battle-field, removed from 
Zurich to Constance. The total loss of the five Koraan 
Catholic cantons was 80 men, that of Reformed Zurich 
about 900 men. But there was one death more bitter 
than all the rest. 

Zwingli stood firm at his post, in the midst of the 
members of his congregation, with helmet upon his 
head, the sword at his side, and battle-axe in hand. 
This was in accordance with old Swiss custom, though 
Zwingli made no use of his arms. During the former 
war he had planned, ordered, and conducted every- 
tliing, step for step, with untiring application. In this 
second war he occupied a passive position, awaiting 
with melancholy patience coming events, and foretell- 
ing their sad ending. After having imparted his ad- 
vice and admonition, he left the cause in the hands of 
the Lord, and bowed patiently and submissively to His 



190 THE LIFE OF ULEIC ZWIKGLI. 

will. The close of his introduction to the history of the 
suEEerings of. Jesus presents to us a glorious testimony of 
his submissionto God even unto death, and of his faith- 
ful following of Christ. These words indicate the spirit 
in which he hastened to the battle-field of Kappel : 
" We also will endeavor to remember the death of 
Christ, in order that we may remain brave, steadfast, and 
undismayed, when we are called upon to suffer for 
Christ, for truth, and for righteousness." 

On his way from Zurich to Kappel, Zwingli was heard 
praying most fervently to God, and commending his 
body and soul, as well as the Chiireh, to His care. After 
the flank attack had been made, and the firing of the 
enemy had caused disastrous havoc, Zwingli was heai'd 
making inquiry concerning the import of this move- 
ment. When the number of the slain had sadly in- 
creased, Bernhard Sprungli entreated him to encourage 
the soldiers. This he did, by saying to those within 
hearing : ' ' My dear people, be of good courage, be not 
afraid. Even if we must suffer defeat, ours is a good 
cause. Commend yourselves to God, who can help us 
and our friends." 

Among the slain lay quite a number of Zwingli's rel- 
atives by blood and marriage. And in the midst of the 
noble dead lay Zwingli himself. Twice he was hurled 
from his horse in the tumult of the conflict, but each 
time he arose and stood firmly among his comrades, 
until he fell pierced by two lances. Natural darkness 
surrounded him, but in his soul there was light, for he 
knew in whom he had believed. He was certain of the 
sweet hope that Christ was his life, and that his citizen- 
ship was in heaven. And so he cried out: "What 
matters it ? They may kill the body, but not thfe soul. " 
These were Zwingli's last words. For the third time he 



191 



attempted to rise, when a stunning blow upon the head 
felled him to the ground. "When the plundering ene- 
mies, torches in hand, were torturing the wounded and 
outraging the dead, they came across the wounded Re- 
former. Finding him still alive, they asked him whether 
they should procure a priest to confess him. But he 
gave them a negative answer. "Whereupon the brutal 
fellows, without knowing him, derided him as an ob- 
stinate heretic. At that moment Captain Vokinger, of 
Unterwalden, approached, and, seizing his sword with the 
cry of rage: "Die, thou obstinate heretic, shameful 
traitor and malefactor," he inflicted the death-blow. 

Zwingli died at the age of forty-seven years nine 
months and eleven days. All night long his remains 
lay upon the battle-field, near to the highway that leads 
over the, Albis to Zurich. On tlie following morning, 
when the victors examined the battle-field and found so 
many distinguished men among the slain, they began to 
comprehend the greatness of their victory. But when 
they beheld Zwingli dead at their feet, their exultation 
knew no bounds. The expression of determined cour- 
age with which he died remained in death. Chaplain 
Stocker, of Zug, who knew Zwingli well, testified that 
he looked as hale and hearty as in life. 

The old Abbot Schonbrunner, formerly of the Minster 
of Zurich, who accompanied Chaplain Stocker to the 
battle-field, when he beheld Zwingli' s remains, could not 
refrain from tears, and said : " "Whatever your faith may 
have been, I know that you were a true patriot. God 
be with your soul !" 

Finally the drums beat and the entire army of the five 
forest cantons was assembled to sit in judgment upon the 
remains of the arch-heretic, Zwingli. The pensioners 
cried out : " Divide his body into five parts, and send 



192 THE LIFE OF ULKIC ZWIiTGLI. 

one part to each of the five cantons." Two officials 
from Canton Zug admonished them to let the dead rest 
in peace, since judgment belonged alone to God. But 
with a wild cry of rage the multitude demanded that 
Zwingli's remains should be quartered, mixed with 
dung, and afterward consumed by fire. The hang- 
man of Luzerne executed this sentence. The ashes of 
Zwingli were scattered to the four winds. 

At Y o'clock in the evening the first news of the terri- 
ble defeat was received in Zurich. The unexpectedness 
of the news increased the fearfulness of the blow. 
Anna Zwingli likewise heard the cry: "Zwingli is 
dead." The unfortunate widow kissed her fatherless 
childreij, knelt with them, and sobbed : " Lord, Thy will 
and not ours be done." But when she heard that her 
son Gerald, her brother, her sons-in-law, her brother-in- 
law, her cousin, and many of her friends had fallen, she 
was overcome with grief, and her children wept bitterly 
with her. 

The news of Zwingli's death was carried with the 
rapidity of lightning through all Germany. The Eoman 
Catholic princes and rulers sent congratulatory messages 
to the five forest cantons. Austria and Rome did like- 
wise. - But, on the other hand, from Alsace, Swabia, 
Hesse, and many German cities were received messages 
of condolence to the Council of Zurich. These com- 
forted the people, and gave them to understand that, 
even if the enemy rejoiced in the fall of Zwingli, thou- 
sands of hearts in all Germany beat in sympathy, and in 
tears and with cries of sorrow expressed their reverence 
for the great Reformer. 

" May our enemies rejoice because of his mortal re- 
mains, and may they scoff at innocence. He yet lives, 
and will forever live. The brave hero has left- a me- 



ZWIlTGLl'S DEATH AT KAPPEL. 193 

morial of renown that no flame of fire can consume. 
God, to whose honor he labored until death, will glorify . 
his memory. And I, for whom he did so much, will 
defend his reputation and praise his virtues." Thus 
spake Leo Juda, Zwingli's faithful assistant at the 
Church in Zurich. Oekolampad, who died in grief over 
the result of the battle, on the 24:th of If ovember, im- 
pressed his many friends in Germany that Zwingli, as a 
faithful shepherd in the midst of his flock, had given his 
life for his Fatherland and for the Church. 

Since the 11th of October, 1531, on the evening of 
which day Zwingli laid down his life, more than three 
centuries have passed away, and many generations have 
come and gone. But Zwingli's name and work have not 
disappeared. They yet live, and exert a great blessing. 
And their memory among us would be infinitely more 
regarded, were it not for the morbid tendency of the 
spirit of our times. According to this spirit Zwingli is 
unnecessarily measured and judged by the record and 
person of Luther, and tlms the former never receives liis 
just dues. This would not be the case were Zwingli 
judged in and for himseK alone. 

Zwingli received his early training as shepherd son 
amid the Alps of Toggenburg, receiving there at the 
same time his first and permanent impressions of God's' 
glory, enabling him to measure the emptiness of all 
human display. His early development for his divinely- 
appointed calling transpired under the blessed influences 
of family and friends, by the which he laid hold upon 
life in a happy and courageous manner. This enabled 
him also to overlook the coarse, degenerate present, and 
with a world-embracing view to rejoice beforehand in a 
better future, and at the same time, with God's Word in 
hand, to lay its foundations wisely, thoughtfully, and 



194 THE LIFE OF ULRIC ZWIS-GLI. 

systematically. The distressing conditions of his Con- 
federate Fatherland at the time of his reformatory activ- 
ity exerted a decided influence upon his life and career. 
His premature death, by which he was suddenly torn 
away from his work of reconstructing the Church must 
not be forgotten in a just estimate of his life. All these 
are considerations that speak for themselves, and form 
the rule or measure by which the man must be right- 
eously judged. "Not can it be forgotten that in less than 
thirteen years, amid the most serious dangers and the 
most obstinate opposition, he laid the foundations of the 
entire Reformed Church in Switzerland and in foreign 
parts. 

No matter what the judgments of other Eeformers in 
other countries may have been, Zwingli remains the great 
and ever-beloved Reformer of Switzerland, the leading 
founder and father of the whole Eeformed Church. 
His Church Eeformation, realized in the spirit and upon 
the foundations of prophets and apostles, found an echo 
in the popular conscience, and is cultivated until this day. 

The fraternal ties of spiritual communion which 
Zwingli established with Wurtemberg, Bayreuth, and the 
Palatinate, Hesse and Brandenburg, with the princes 
and cities of the Lower Rhine, with England and Hol- 
land, have endured centuries after his death. And they 
have afforded to Switzerland the exalted consciousness 
that although Zwingli, her greatest teacher, was killed 
in battle, the work founded by him is indestructible. 

It is and will remain an ever-precious sentiment, what 
Bullinger wrote to Zw^ingli's friends and admirers in for- 
eign lands : ' ' The victory of the truth rests in the 
power and will of God, and is not bound to any time or 
person. Christ too was put to death, and His enemies 
imagined that they won the victory. But after forty 



ZWINGLl'S DEATH AT KAPPEL. 195 

years had passed by, the trimnph of Christ was revealed 
in the destruction of Jerusalem. But truth does not 
triumph in such a manner as if it suilered no oppression, 
but rather in tribulation does it find its realization. But 
for this, faith, patience, and perseverance are necessary. 
The power of a Christian grows more powerful in weak- 
ness. Hence, beloved brethren, let not our defeat at 
Kappel become a stumbling-block, but persevere in the 
Word of God ! This has always won the victory, even 
if, on its account, holy prophets, apostles, and martyrs 
have been reviled and put to death. Blessed are they 
that die in the Lord ! Victory will follow in due time ; i 
for a thousand years are in God's sight as one day. Nor 
is there but one kind of victory, for he also triumplij 
that suffers and dies for the sake of the truth I" 



CHRONOLOGICAL TABLE OF EVENTS IN 
THE LIFE OF ULEIC ZWINGLI. 



1484. January 1st. Zwingli is born at Wildhaus, in Switzerland. 

1493. Studies at Wesen under Bartbolomew Zwingli. 

1494. Enters the St. Theodore school at Basel, under George Binzli, 
1497. Studies at Berne under Henry Welflin (Lupulus)- 

1499. Attends the University of Vienna. 

1501. Teaches in St. Martin's Latin School, Basel. 

1505. Receives the degree of Master of Arts (Ph.D.). 

1506. Is ordained priest and caJled to Glarus. 

1512-1515. Accompanies the Swiss troops, as Chaplain, to Italy. 

1516. Accepts a call to Binsiedeln. 

1517. Preaches Forgiveness of Sins through Christ alone. 

1518. Denounces the Sa,le of Indulgences. 

1518. Removes to Zurich, in obedience to a call, as Chief Pastor. 

1519. Assumes the duties of his new Pastorate. 
1519. Becomes dangerously ill. 

1533. Condemns Foreign Enlistments of Swiss Mercenaries. 

1523. Publishes his first printed work. Pasting. 

1523. Issues his 67 Theses and engages in the Church Councils. 

1523. Introduces the German Language in the Public Services. 

1524. Marries the Widow Anna Meier. 

1535. Celebrates the Lord's Supper according to its Institution. 
1539. Attends the Marburg Conference. 

1530. Publishes the Bible in German. 

1531. Issues Commentaries upon Isaiah and Jeremiah. 
1531. October 11th, Dies on the Battle-field of KappeL 



INDEX 



AsBLi of Glares, 158. 

AORIODLTURE, 8. 

-Albert, Emperor, 13 ; asBatisinatcd, 15. 

Alem ANNI, The, 8 ; furnish a new pop- 
ulation, 9. 

Abator, Nicholas, 165. 

"Archbtblbb," 105. 

AnosBURS, Diet of, 162. 
• AuGDSTUS, Tlie Emperor, 8. 



B. 

Baden, Church Council at, 145. 
Baptish, a new formula of, 115. 
Barbarism, Beli^ions, 193. 
BIBX.E, The, Zwingli'a translation of, 

33 ; estimate of, 172. 
Bicocoa. 59. 
BiNZLi, George, 27. 
BiiOOKADE of the frontier, 170 ; •worlts 

evil, 182. 
BULLiNGEB, Henry, 80 ; prefers charges 

against Samson, 81 ; opinion of 

Zwingli, 83 ; after Kappel, 194 

BDBGDNDU.N8, 9. 



c. 

Cantons in Switzerland, IB. 

Castle, A, in olden times, 11. 

Charlemagne, 10. 

CpARLES v., 85 ; at Augsburg, 102, 

Childkeit of Ulric Zwiugli, 163. 

Church, The Christian, 9 ; introduced 
into Switzerland, 10. 

Church services, 12S. 

Clemens VIT., 58; reproves Zurich, 59 ; 
forms an alliance with the Catholic 
Cantons, 60. 

Cloisters founded, 10. 

Comet, Appearance of a, how regarded, 
18:}. 

Confederacy, The Swiss, 15 ; constit- 
uent cantons of, 16. 

Coi<eREa.(.TiaK, Government of the, 131. 



Cohhab of EechherR, 43. 

Constance, The Bishop of, 105; appeals 
to the Swiss Diet, 106. 

Councils, at Ziirich, 101 ; again con- 
vened, 107 ; at Baden, 1'15. 



DounacASE, The, S8. 



EoK, Dr., 143 ; invited to Ziirich, 144. - 
Eihsiedeln, 43; crowds of pilgi'ims 

to, 45. 
Ennius, Papal Legate, 54; asks for 

troops, 56 ; repeats his demand, 57. 
Erasmus, 41. 



Faber, Vicar-General, 91 ; in the Zii- 
rich Council, 110; his designs, 143. 

Fasting, 104. 

Feige, Chancellor, 150: exhorts to 
union, 151. 

Festivals, A new order of. 98. 

Forgiveness of sins, 45; through 
Christ alone, 46 ; sold for money, 49 ; 
the sale continued, 79. 

Frauenfield, Synods of, 180, 

Frederick I., Emperor, 12. 



G. 

Gauls, The, 7 ; defeat the Helvetians, 8. 

German language. The, introdaced,115. 

Gessler, 14. 

Glareanus, B-3; enconrsges Zwingli, 
75 ; rejoices in Zwingli's progress, 97. 

Glabus, 35 ; its attachment to Zwingli, 
44. 

God, Dependence upon, 170 : and Hi> 
Word, 180. 

G6ldli, George, Captain, 186. 

Governors, Ancient Swiss, 13 ; ex- 
pelled, 15. 



198 



INDEX. 



H. 

HAEsBDKa, The honse of, 13. 

Eesio, I)i-., 48 ; encourages Zivingli, 

83; writes of his sicliness, 88; of 

Scninner's opinion, 91. 
Helvetians, 8. 
Hetzbh, Lndwig, 115. 
Home Lifb op Ulkio Zwingli, 164 ; 

his love of children, 165. 
HoTTiNOEB, 116 ; is banished, 126. 
HvMHS of Zwingli, 89 ; at Kappel, 161. 



I. 

Images, 115 : how treated, 116 ; how 

disposed of, 124 ; as kindling-wood, 

127. 
Indulgences, 49 ; sold in Switzerland, 

50 ; at different prices, 79. 
Intboduction to the mass, Zwingli's, 

119. 



J. 

JuDA, Leo, 33 ; companion of Zwingli, 
33 ; called to Einsiedeln, 53 ; called to 
Ziirlch, 99 ; engages in the Church 
Conncil, 119 ; his tribute to Zwingli, 
192. 

Julius II., Pope, 39. 



Kaiser, Jacob, Pastor, executed, 150. 

Kappel, The first war of, 155 ; its treaty 
of peace, 160 ; a failure, 161 j its terms 
annulled by the Catholic Cantons, 
174 ; the second War of, 185. 

Kappel, The battle of, 188. 



Lekten rules, 101 ; discussed in Conn- 
cilJ04. 

Leo X., 49 ; his designs upon the Swiss, 
54 ; asks for mercenanes, 55. 

Lord's Supper, The, 40; no sacrifice, 
118 ; its Import defined, 121 ; in both 
forms, 133; administered in the new 
way, 129. 

Louis XII., of Prance, 40. 

Luther, his relations to Zwingli, 135 ; 
bow estimated by Zwingli, 136; at 
Marbur?, 150 ; defines bia position, 
151 ; refuses fellowship, 154. 

Luxuries, Foreign, 64. 



Marburg Conference, The, 147. 
Marignano, Battle of, 40. 
Mabtybs, ProtiiBtant, 145 ; a noble ex- 
ample of, 156, 



Mass, The, 40 ; Zwingli's view upon, 
43 ; his printed views upon, 116 ; dis- 
cussed, 118 ; is not the Lord's Supper, 
121. 

Meier, Anna, Widow, 163. 

MELANcnTHON,' Philip, 148. 

Meecenaeies, 38 ; employed by tho 
Pope, 38 ; enlistment of, prohibited, 
55 : asked by France, 66 ; suffer severe 
losses, 58 ; exert a degrading infiu- 
once, 61 ; number of men slain, 64. 

Missionaries, Early, 9 ; their labors, 
10 ; their struggles, 35. 

Monks, The, oppose the Eeformation, 
75; hostile to Zwingli, 91; present 
charges, 93; hinder Gospel preach- 
ing, 94 ; their preaching void, 129. 

MuEDERons Conspiracies, 141. 

Mtcohius, 51 : ^courages Zwingli, 
92 ; writes of his dangers,141. 



Natuee, Signs of, 184. 
New Tebtament, The, explained in Ber- 
mons, 73-78. 



Oekolampad, 149 ; complains of Lu- 
ther's treatment, 150 ; discusses wit li 
Luther, 151 ; closes the. debate, 153 ; 
his dearh, 193. 

Ordeb of Worship, 47. 



Palm Mule, The, 127. 

Party Spirit, 62. 

Pensions, The system of, 37 ; tardily 
paid, 55 ; forbidden by Zflrich, 57 ; 
their degrading influence, 61 ; im- " 
mense amounts paid; 63 ; renounced 
by oath, 126. 

Pericopes, Preaching from the, 73. 

Persecutions of Protestants, 144 ; con- 
tinued, 1.55. 

Philip of Hesse, 147 ; favors Zwingli's 
teachings) 153 ; exhorts to fellowship, 
153. 

PlOTUEES, 116. 

Fbaise Meetings in Zwingli's home, 
166. 

Priests, Multitudes of, 55 ; ignorance 
of, 68 ; one of them beheaded, 68. 

Printing presses, 69. 

Pucoius, Antoninus, 48 ; demands sol- 
diers, 55 ; promises reforms, 66 ; hears 
the truth from Zwingli, 82. 



R. 

Befoematioh, The, 69 ; its advocates 
in Switzerland, 70 ; desired by the 
people, 71 ; opposed by the monks. 



ISTDEX. 



199 



75 ; progresses slowly, 91 ; iliscuSBed 
in a Council, 107 ; taking firm root, 
129 ; gaining grouucl, 146. 

ItEFOllMERS, Swiss, 70. 

Eelatives, Zwiugii'B, tilled atKappel, 

193. 
Bsi,iGioK, its origin, 171, 
SiLSTiAHs, The, 7 ; the tribes of, 8. 
Ehjethts, 7. 

RoMB, 53 ; its designs, 54. 
KouST, Marx, 54. 
EuDOLPH of Hapsburg, 18. 
E^Li, Covenant of, 14 ; enlarged, 15. 



S. 



Saltation of God, 169. 

Samson, Bernhardin, 49; operates at 
Berne, 79 ; near Zurich, 80 ; is driven 
away, 81. 

ScEiHNGB, Cardinal, 39 : employs mer- 
cenaries, 40 ; advised by Zwingli, 48 ; 
hires troops, 55 ; favors Charles V., 
85. 

Sonoois, Village, 128. 

SoHWTZ, Canton, forbids pensions; 86 ; 
persecutes the Eeformed, 175. 

Simony, 56. 

Spibb, Diet of, 147. 

Staeheli, George, 96 ; relates of dan. 
gers, 139. 

Switzerland, 7; its ancient inhabi- 
tants, 8 ; part of the German Empire, 
11 i oppressed by Austrian governors, 
13 ; struggles for independence, 15 ; 
the Confederacy established, 15 ; Can- 
tons in, 16 ; its connection with Eome, 
53 ; nearly ruined by foreign influ- 
ences, 65. 

Synods, Establishment of, 131. 



Tell, William, 14. 
Theses, Zwingli's, 107. 
Tbdtu, its import, 167. 



IT. 

TJhiveksities, Influence of, 71. 
UsuKEKS punished, 177. 



VIC33 of the.clergy, 67. 
Vine culture, 8. 

ViKQiN Maky, The, 45 ; her image re- 
moved, 47. 

TV. 

Waldbnseb, The, 134. 

Wabs, Foreign, 38; demoralizing In- 
fluences of, 62 ; money spent upon, 
63. 



WlLDHAUS, IB. 

WiNTEB evening pastimes, 20. 
WoLFLiN, Henry. 28. 
Weitings of Zwingli, 173. 
Wytteneach, Thomas, 33 ; his Gospel 
teachings, 33. 



Year, The Old and the Kew, 22. 



Z. 

Zbll, Matthias, 149. 

ZuBicn, 51 ; forbids enlistments and 
pensions, 67 ; character of the people 
of, 68 ; breaks with the Pope and for- 
eign lords, 85 ; afBicted by the plague, 
88 ; resolves upon free Gospel preach- 
ing, 97 ; resolution adopted in Coun- 
cil, 114 ; as to the images and mass, 
125; abolishes pensions, 127; declares 
war against Schwyz, 157 ; marches 
against Zug, 158 ; concludes a treaty 
of peace, 160 ; demands warlike mea- 
sures, 176 : also free preaching, 176 ; 
is surprised, 185 ; sends out its forcea, 
186 ; is defeated, 188 ; constei-natiou 
at, 196. 

Zwingli, Anna, Mrs., 164 ; her interest 
in her husband's work, 165 ; takes 
leave of her husband, 186 ; receives 
the news of bis death, 192 . 

Zwingli, Bartholomew, Dean, 27. 

Zwingli, Ulric, Sr., 18 ; his family 
and occupation, 19 : his children, 23. 

Zwingli, Ulric, 18 ; his parentage and 
home, 18 ; birth, 23 ; mental powers, 
24 ; youthful impressions, 25 ; moral 
development, 26 ; designed for the 
ministry, 27 ; studies at Wesen, 27 ; 
then at Basel, 27 ; at Berne, 28 ; dis- 
like to monasteries, 28 ; returns home, 
29 ; goes to Vienna and studies phi- 
losophy, 30; bis student friends, 30; 
returns home, 30 ; goes to Basel, 31 ; 
his evangelical convictions, 31 ; is ap- 
pointed teacher, 31 ; his love of music, 
31 ; receives a degree, 32 ; meets Juda, 
33 ; translates the Bible, 33 ; finishes 
his studies, 35 ; is ordained priest, 
called to Glarus, 35 ; studies the 
Scriptures, 37; attacks vices and 
abuses, 38 ; receives a pension, 39 ; 
goes to war, 40 ; visits Milan, 40 ; re- 
solves upon reform, 41 ; a firm friend 
to yonng men, 41 ; accepts a call to 
Einsiedeln, 43 ; preaches Jesus, 45 ; 
introduces a German order of worship, 
47 ; discusses the Eeformation move- 
ment, 48 ; is bribed by the Pope, 49 ; 
denounces the sale of indulgences, 50 ; 
is called to Ziirich, 51: secures ap- 
pointmentsfor his friends, 52 ; preach- 
es against foreign enlistments, 57 ; 
his writings printed and circulated, 
69 ; his effective preaching, 74 ; op- 



200 



INDEX. 



gosed by the monks, T5 ; explains the 
oripturee, 76 ; his influence increas- 
ing, 81 i in temporal affairs, 85 ; de- 
nounces pensions, 86 ; becomes dan- 
gerously ill, 88 ; composes hymns, 89 : 
IS attaclced by a monli, 91 ; by other 
parties, 93; boldly proclaims the 
truth, 95 ; appoints assistants, 96 ; his 
enemies, 98 ; invites Juda to Zurich, 
99 ; engaaes in councils, 101 ; his opin- 
ions on Lenten rules, 104 ; publishes 
ills first work, 104; writes "Archet- 
eles," 105 ; prints 67 theses, 107 ; in 
the Church Council at Zurich, 109 ; 
inti'oduces German, 115 ; his opinion 
on images and pictures, 116 ; on the 
Mass, 116 ; engages in another Coun- 
cil, 117 ; writes an introduction, 119; 
secures the renunciation of pensions, 
136 ; , celebrates the Lord's Supper^ 
129 ; results attained in 1585, 133 ; his 
relations to Luther, 135 ; his opinions 
of Luther, 136 ; intercedes for him, 
187 ; presentiment of his own death, 
137 ; attempts upon his life, 139 ; asiis 
to go to Marburg, 148 ; departs with- 
out permission, 149 ; arrives at J^ar- 



burg, 150; debates with Luther, 152; 
offers the hand of peace, 154 ; in favor 
of war, 157 ; concerned about his 
country, 159 ; displeased with the 
treaty, 161 ; sends a Confession to 
Augsburg, 182 ; marries Widow Meier, 
168 ; his children, 163; his home life, 
164 ; his love of children, 166 ; love of 
music, 166 ; his sincere character, 167 ; 
love for popular festivities, 167 ; per- 
sonal salvation, 170; his doctrines, 
169 ; his writings, 172 ; his life, 173 ; 
mourns at inactivity, 174 ; is derided, 
175 ; demands energetic measures, 
176 ; enemies plotting against him, 
177 ; resigns his position, 178 ; with- 
draws his resignation, 179; attends 
Synods, 180 ; prepares commentaries, 
181 ; visits the Diet at Bremgarten, 
181 ; views the comet, 183 ; again 
warns the people, 184 ; preaches for 
the last time, 185 ; takes leave of wife 
and children, 186 ; goes to the front, 
186 ; prays fervently, 190 ; his last 
words, 190 ; is killed, 191 ; ignomini- 
ously treated, 192 ; his death, how re- 
ceived, 192. 



201 

I^^SUBSCRIBERS, ATTENTION! 

If you are willing to atibserihe for the 8TA.NI>AltI> IiIBMAltT, 
1884, Series, please notify us immeAiately. Price until Jam. 10, $4,00. 

See the enthusiastie letters vje are receiving, from such men as 77, S, 
ClUef-tTttttice Waite, Bros. Marie Bophins, and others, urging contin- 
uation of the Iiibrary through 1884. See advertising pages. 

Please distribute descriptive circulars aTnottg your friends,'] 

THE LIFE OF ULRiC ZWES^GLI. 

Translated, from, the Grerman. of Rev. JEA.N" GrUOE. 

This "volume presents the life of theEeformer of Switzerland; "the Mountain-Boy of 
TVlldhaus," as he has been called. Ja a higiily interesting manner. The 400th anniversary of 
his birth calls for a memorial of hia sincere character and his manly career. In a graphic 
and at times dramatic manner, the auth-or has sketched the record of the man. the states- 
man; and the reformer, from his humble birth to the sad ending of his life. He has also 
incidentally furnished au Insight Into the history, governmeut, and characteristics of the 
people for whom ZvflugU lived and died. 



B3A.RLIHIR NTJMiBBJRS. 

PAXTON HOOD'S LIFE OF CKOMWELL. No. 80, Stajtoabd Libhaet (No. 1, 
1S83 Series). Price, 35 cents. 

SCIENCE IN SHORT CHAPTEES. By W. JIattieu Wiiliams, F.E.S.A., 
F.C.S. No. 81, Standard Libbakt (No. 2, 1883 Series^. Price, 25 cents. 

AMERICAN HUMORISTS. Br E. IT. Hawbis. No. 82, Standard LibeakV 
(No. 3, 1883 Series). PricOj^lS cents. 

LIVES OP ILLUSTRIOUS SHOEMAKEES. Bt William Edwabd Wikks. 
No. 83, Standard Libbaby (No. 4, 1883 Series). Price, 25 cents. 

FLOTSAM AND JETSAM. By Thomas Gibson Bowles. No. 84, Standaud 
Library (No. 5, 1833 Series). Price, 85 cents. 

THE HIGHWAYS OF LTTEKAT0EE ; or What to Head and How to Read. 
By Datid Prydb, M.A., LL.D,, F.E.S.E., F.S.A., etc. No. So, Standabd Lebraky 
(No. 6, 1883 Series). Price, 15 cents. 

COLIN CLOUT'S CALENDAR. AReooed of A Summeb. By Grant Allen. 
No. 86, Standard Library (No. 7, 1883 Series). Price, 26 cents. 

THE ESSAYS OP GEOEGE ELIOT.- Complete. Collected and arranged, wi'h 
an Introduction on lier "Analysis on Motives." Br Nathan Sheppakd. No. 87, 
Standard Library (No. 8, 1883 Series). Price, 25 cents. 

AN HOUR WITH CtlAELOTTE BRONTE; or. Flowers from a YoBKsmEB 
Moor. By Laura C. Holloway. No. 88, Standaud Liehaey (No. 9, 1883 Series). 

ffiCS 15 C6Il1j9 

SAM HOBAET. By Jctstin D. Fulton, D.D. No. 89, Standard Library (No. 
10, 1883 Series). Price, 25 cents. 

SUCCESSFUL MEN OF TO-DAY. By W. F. Ceapts. No. 90, Standard Li- 
brary (No. 11, 1883 Series). Price, 25 cents. 

NATURE STUDIES. By Grant Allen, Andrew Wilson, Thomas Foster, 
Edward Clodd, and Eichabd A. Pboctob. No. 91, Standard Library (No, 12, 
1883 Series).' Price, 25 cents. 

INDIA, WHAT CAN IT TE.4.CH US ? By Max MtiLLER. No. 92, Standard 
Library (No. 13, 1883 Series). Price, 25 cento. 

WINTER IN INDIA. . Bythe Rt. Hon. W. E. Baxter, M.P. No. 93, Standard 
Library (No. 14, 1883 Series). Price, 15 cents. 

SCOTTISH CHARACTERISTICS. Br Paxton Hood. No. 94, Standard Li- 
brary (No. 15, 1883 Series). Price, 25 cents. 

HISTORICAL AND OTHER SKETCHES. By Jas. Anthony Feoudb. No. 
95, Standard Libbaby (No. 16, 1883 Series). Price, 25 cont-a. 

JEWISH ARTISAN LIFE IN THE TIME OF CHEIST. By Franz Delitzsch, 
D.D. No. 98, Standard Lieeaey (No. 17, 1883 Series). Price, 15 cents. 

SCIENTIFIC SOPHISMS. By Samuel Wainwriqht, D.D. No. 97, Standard 
liERABY (No. 18, 1883 Series). Price, 25 cents. 

ILLUSTRATIONS AND MEDITATIONS. Br Charles H. Spuegeon. No. 98, 
Standard Library (No. 19, 1883 Series). Price, 25 cents. 

FRENCH CELEBRITIES. By Ernest Daudbt, and others. No. 99, Standard 
Library (Nd. 20, 1883 Series). Price, 15 cents. 

BY-WAYS OP LITERATURE. Br Datid H. Wheeler, No. ICO, Standard 
liiBRARr (No. 21, 1883 Series). Price, 25 cents. 

THE LIFE OF MARTIN LUTHER. Br Dr. William Rein. No. 101, Standard 
Ijbrary (No. 23. 1883 Series). Price, 25 cents. 

FRENCH CELEBRITIES. Part Second. By Jules Claeetib, and others. No. 
102, Standard Library (No. 23, 1883 Series). Price, 15 cents. 

OUR CHRISTMAS IN A PALACE. By Edward Everett Hale. No. 103, 
Standard Libraby (No. 24. 1883 Series). Price, 25 cents. 

WITH THE POETS. By Casos Fakkar. No. 104, Standard Library (No. 25, 
}S83 Series), Price, 25 cents, 



202 



SHALL THE STANDARD LIBRARY BE 
CONTIN UED IN 1884? 

The Opinion of Eminent Men. 

FROm XiKTTSRS RKCKrVSD IV THX2 X^AST THRESK 'WBXSKS* 



■0. S. GMef Jnstice M* R. Waite, Washington, writes iTtw. 12. 1883: 
"Such a xepublication of standard -worts ts yoa propose for 1884 will bo 
productive of a vast amount of good. What you havo done in the past is good 
■evidence of your ability to judge of what the work requires." 
Sfark Hopkins, I^Ii.D., Pres. of Williams College, writes Ao«. 14, 1883:. 

"Messrs. Funk & Wagnalla propose, if sufacisnt eDcouragement should be 
igiven, to continue for anotheryear the publieation of cheap and valuable reading 
ior the masses. I heartily indorse the project, and wish it every success/' 

JohnHaU,!).!)., New York, writes JVotj. 12, 1883: 

"The books of your Standard LiBUAnY have been useful and attractive, 
and the foreign authors suffer no wrong trojn. your reprint. I can recommend 
ihe continuance of your undertaking, for good boots are one of the most effective 
T7ay8 of superseding the bad." 
«Fokn ^Taaaznaher, Philadelphia, writes Nov. 12, 13S3: 

«*1rou ar« using the right club to killofi the bad books. * * A new boot 
«very fortnight like those you last published, will go tar to ' cast out the devils * 
of degrading literature. * * Tour project to publish good books so cheaply is 
one of the greatest achievements of the century." 

JosepSi T* Duryea, D.l^., Boston. lU^ass., writes Kov. 6, 1833: 

" I have examined the books offered for Bale on the railways, and liave con- 
-versed with the agents. I learn that books of low grade, and even of pernicious 
Influence, have been largely read. A direct effort to suppress them would meet 
with opposition on the ground that it implies a limitation of personal liberty. 
??he only resource left is to supplant them by offering better books, yhich aro 
at the same time attractive, and the competition will need to be favored by tho 
cheapness of the competing volumes. I, therefore, hope you may be encouraged 
to publish a series f«r the coming year." 

Gen. Clinton H. Fisk, New York, writes JVo«. 13, 1S83: 

" Your magniflcent campaign for cheap good books should have tho support 
©f every lover of intelligence and virtue. I^h tho publication of a good, low- 
priced book every fifteen days, s>n6. put me down as a subscriber for all of ihem," 
J. O, Peok, Dpl>., Brooklyn, N. Y., writes Nov. 13, 1883: 

" Your plan for 1884 is worthy of the courage and conscience of Luther. May 
your reformation, like his, overspread the land." 

Hon. Rosooe Conkling, l^ew York, writes N'ov. 7, 1283: 

" You seem to try to put sense in place of trash in cheap books. This ia well 
worth while. You have shown it can be done. My hope and wish go with you." 
TS&omas Armitage, I3.1>., New York, writes I^ov. 5, 1883: 

*-* The good which has been done by your publications of the last year Is in- 
calculable, and if you can afford to continue these issues you will help to buildup 
"m.T.y a zuind that ia athirat without other mecna to nuench tho craving.'* 



2U3 

BffajoF-^€tea, Geo. B. HoGlella3l,Ora7igQ,t7. J., \priteEl TTov.U, 1S53: 

"I Indorse most heartily your plan for furnishing standard hooks to the 
people at low rates during 1884. It deserves cordial support." 

Gen. StevEra?t Id. ^^oodford, New Tcrk, -writes iVcu. 10, 1883: 

"Your effort to furnish good, wholesome, instructive and interesting books 
at low prices deserves aaccess. Tour llsi: of hooks for 1883 seems admirably 
chosen." 

£x-Vioe Prcasident SolmyleF Golfazc, South Bend, Ind., writes Nov. 9r 
" All eucceBs to you in your plans for 1884. Ycur publication of such meri- 
torious and instructive books during the past year at such low prices was a mar- 
vel indeed, and you have proved yourselves public benefactors by this good work. 
In my railroad travels I have read a number of them wiLh interest and profit, 
and they are among the most highly-prized volumes in my library. I should re- 
joice to hear that you had pushed their sales up into the millions, superseding, 
as your series has already, so much of the other kind of " cheap literature," which 
is merely sensational or frivolous, if not worse." 

eS", Is, Burrowra, D.U., Norfolk, Ta. (late of Louisville, Ky.), writes N'ov. 7e 
•" I think your method of distributing healthful books cheaply by mail fort- 
nightly an admirable one, especially for these possessing only small libraries and 
few leisure hours for reading. Their taste for what is solid and instructive will 
be so educated that they will loso relish for what is superficial and debasing. I 
cincerely wish that your patrons may bo indefinitely multiplied." 

A» C. Wedekirad^ D.I5,, New Tork, writes Nov. 14, 1883: 

"I have watched with great interest the progress made with your Standaed 
LtBHABT, and from my heart I wish yon abundant success. You are on the right 
track. May parents and the people generally enable you to keep on it. Yon sup- 
plant the vici?us and the pernicious by the healthful and the helpful style of 
literature. God prosper yoiiin your noble work." 

Charles H, Hall, 23.19., Brooklyn, N. Y., writes Nov. 9, 1833: 

"Having watched with careful attention tho process of your experiment In 
publishing reading matter ^or the masses at a cheap rate, I am satisfied that you 
have redeemed fully every promise made by you at the start. Experience has 
suggested tho further improvement of excluding all controversial and sectarian 
publications, which is, in my judgment, a wise measure. I have myself read 
■with pleasure what you have given us, and very many others have used some of 
any volumes with profit. I wish for you the greatest auccess," 
Charles ^PIT. Gnshisg, Eochester, N. Y.. writes Nov. 13, 18S3: 

"Y-Durcircularjust received brings tho good news that you are In the field 

again with a proposition to continue the publication of the cheap good books 

there is already sziperalnmdnce 0/ cheap had ones — for the yeir 1884. I am glad, 
thankful, hopeful. The good which must come from the circulation of such a 
number of books, choice and timely as those which have already appeared, is be- 
yond the realm of computation. It must be true that good men and women will 
give the help which will insure success, if they can only be made to see the im- 
port of the undertaking, I pray that you may find all needful co-operation.**- 
Rev. George P. Pentecost, Brooklyn, N. T., writes Nov. 12, 1883: 

" I know of no single publishing enterprise which I think is calculated to do 
BO much good as this one of yours. You deserve the benediction of the whole 
public, and the hearty co-operation of the entire Christian Church. Good blesi 
you In your effort to stamp out bod literature under the feet of good. 



204 

Prof. O. C Dav. D.D..^&le College, New Haven, Conn.,- writes Nov. U, 
1883: " ' 

" Tour aim. plan and good selection of bookB dnring tMs year all justify a 
warm interest in your undertaking. "What better present could a parent m.abe to 
a youDg Eon or daughter tlian a year's series of the instructive and elerating 
"books you publish?" 
H. M. Scndder, I>,D., Chicago, writes N<yo. 13, 1883: 

•* I rejoice in your great success in disseminating through your Standabd 
IjIBBABT a literature which is as interestixig, instructive, pure and healthful as it 
is cheap, and I hope you wiU repeat your work in 1884." 
Hon. S. S« Cox, New York, writes Nov. 8. 1883: 

" The volumes of your Standabd Libbaiit are neat and quaintly bound. 
They are as dainty outside as they are economic. Such merit and thought are 
seldom unbound so worthily." 
Charles F, I^eems, Iili.]>., New York, writes Nov. 14, 1883: 

" Your aim is high and your method admirable. * * I am glad to give any 
help to those who are * fighting fire/ " 
Henry J. Van Dyke, D.D., ^^°°^^y^' N. Y.. writes iVbv. 13,1883: 

" I am glad you propose to continue the effort to drive out the darkness of 
bad literature by letting in the light of the good. You have done good service in 
the past, and are entitled to the sympathy and support of all good men. Whole- 
some and cheap reading is as precious as pure air and sunshine. God prosper 
you in the work of providing it for all the people." 
Wm. W, Taylor, D.I>», New York, writes Nov, 15, 1883: 

" It is not so much ' a fighting of fire with fire,' as a fighting of darkness with 
light, and that is always a glorious thing to do." 
James £ells, D.D,, Cincinnati, O., writes Nov. 12, 1883: 

"I am glad to know that you propose to publish another series of books for 
the year 1884. If you furnish as good a series as that of 1883 the reading public 
will have not only reason to thank you, but to liberally sustain you in this pur- 
pose to supplant the bad with the good. It is of little use merely to denounoa 
the bad." 
Edward P. IngersoU, D.D., Brooklyn, N. Y., writes Nov. 13. 1883: 

"Continue your magnificent, philanthropic work. You have given us this 
year a * solid pathway of good books 8>^ feet wide across the continent.* In 1884 
lay a double track. Your fresh, vigorous, sparkling books will win. Patriots, 
pastors, parents and teachers will give you their G-od-speed and support. * 
Jolin P. Newman, I>.P., New York, writes Noo. 13. 1883: 

" I welcome to my home the Staitoabd Lzkbabt, both for instruction and en- 
tertainment. Your plan for 1834 exceeds in excellence, if possible, that of 1883. 
It appeals for support and approval to every patriot in the land. Your high and 
holy mission is t j rescue and conserve the childhood of our republic." 
Rev. "Wilbur P. Crafts, A.^., New York, writes Nov. 12, 1883: 

•• Your STA5rpA"Bi> Liebaey mafees coffee as cheap as beer, that is, good books 
as cheap as bad ones, and this helps to checkmate an evil only second to rum 
selling — the sale of poisonous literature." 
*W. "W. Everts, D.X>., Jersey City Heights. N. J., writes Nov. 6, 1883: 

•* There is no adequate remedy against this formidable and growing evil of 
sensational literature without cheapening and multiplying good books. The suc- 
cess of your series of first-class books in 1883 assures a greater success in 1884. 
Let them be scattered like leaves of the forest, and they shall be for the healing 
of the land." 



THE! STANDARD SERIXSS. 

Best Books for a, rTz-ifle. 

THS9E books are printed in readable type, on fair paper, and are bound in postal 
card manilla. 

These books are printed whoUy without abridgment, except Canon Farrar'a " Life 
of Chribt " and hU ■' Life of Paul." 



N9. Frici, 

1. John Ploughman's Talk. C. H. 
Spnrgeou. On Choice of Books. 
Thomas Carlyte. 4to. Both.... $0 13 

2. Manliness of Chrlsi. Thomas 
Hughes. 4to 10 

3. Gsiays. Lord Macanlay. 4to... 15 

4. Li::htof Asia. Edwin Arnold. 4to. 15 

5. Imitation of Christ. Thomas & 
Kempis. 4to 15 

C-T. Life of Christ. Canon Farrar. 

4to 50 

8. Esiayg. Thomas Carlyle. 4to.. 20 
9-10. Life and Work of St. Paul. 

Cauon Farrar. 4to 2 parts, both 50 
11. Self-Culiure. Prof . J. U. Blackie. 

4to. 2parts,both 10 

13-19. Popular History of England. 

Chas. Knight. 4to.. 2 80 

20-21. Ruikin's Letters to Workmen 

and Laborers. 4to. 2 parts, both 30 

22. Idyls of the King. Alfred Tenuy- 

•on. 4ta 20 

23. Life of Rowland Hill. Bev. V. J. 
Charlesworth. 4to 15 

24. Town Oeology. Charles Kings- 
ley. 4lo 15 

23. Alfred the Great. Thos. Hughes. 

4to '. 20 

26. Untdoer Life in Burope. Bev. E. 
P.Thwing; 4to 20 

27. Calamities' of Authors. I. S'ls- 
raeli. 4to 20 

98. Salon of HadameXecker. Fart I. 

4to , 15 

29. Ethics of the Dust. John Buskin. 

4lo 13 

30-31. Kemories of My Exile. Louis 

Kosnuth. 4to 40 

32. Mister Horn and His Friends. 
lUustratid. 4to 15 

3.^-84. Orations of Demosthenes. 4to. 40 

33, Frondes A'grestes. John Bus- 
kin. 4to 15 

3S. Joan of Arc. Alphonse de La- 

martine. 4to 10 

37. Thoufhts of M. Aurelius Anto- 

niaus. 4to • 15 

SS. Salon of Madame Necker. Fart 

n. 4te 15 

39. TIseHnmlU. Chas.Kingslsy. 4ta. 15 

40. JnhB Flanghman'a Pictares. C. 

n. Spurceoh, 4ta 15 

41. Palpit Tabte-Talk. Dean Bora- .' 
•ay, 4to 10 

42. Blkle and ITewspaper. C. H. ' ' 
SpBrge«n. 4to 15 

43. Laean. Ber. C. C. Celton. 4tfl. 20 



No. Price. 

44. Goldsmith's Citizen of the World. 

4to 80 20 

43. America Revisited. Oeorgs Au- 
gustus Sala. 4to 20 

46. Life of C. H. Spul-geon. 8vo.... XlO 
4T. John Calvin. M. Guizot. 4to... 13 
48-49. Dickens' Christmas Books. 

Illustrated. 8vo 50 

50. Shairp's Culture and Religion. 8vo. 13 
51-52. Oodet's Commentary on Luke. 
Ed. by Dr. John Hall. 8vo,2parts, 

both 2 00 

53. Diary of a Minister's Wife. Fart 

L 8to 13 

54-37. Van Doren's Suggestive Com- 
mentary on Luke. Kew edition, 
enlarged. 8vo 3 00 

58. Diary of a MHnlBter"s Wife. Fart 

IL 8vo 15 

59. The Nutritive Cure. Dr. Robert 
Walter. 8vo 15 

60. Sartor Resartus. Thomas Car- 
lyle. 4to 25 

61-62. Lothair. Lord Beaconsdeld. 

8vo 50 

63. The Persian Queen and Other 
Pictures of Truth. Eov. B. P. 
Thwing. 8vo 10 

64. Salon of Madame Necker. Part 

lU. 4to 15 

65-66. The Popular History of Eng- 
lish Bible Translation. H.P.Co- 
nant. 8vo. Price both parts... 50 

67. Ingersolt Answered. Joseph Par- 
ker, D.D. 8vo ....- 15 

68-69. Studies in Mark. D. C. 

Hughes; 8vo; in two parts 60 

TO. Job's Comforters. A Beligious 
Satire. Joseph Parker,D.D. (.Lon- 
don.) 12mo 10 

71. The Eavl-ers' English. Q. Wash- 
ington Moon, F^B.S.L. 12mo.. 20 

72. The Conversion' of Children. Rev. 
EdwardPayson Hammond. .12mo 30 

73. New Testament Helps. Rev. W. 
F.Crafts. 8vo 20 

74. Opium—England '< Coercive Poli- 
cy. Rev: Jno. Llggins. 8vo 10 

75. Blood of Jesus. Rev. Wm. A. 
Reld. With Introduction by B. 

P. Hammond. 12mo 10 

76. Lesson in the Closet for. 1883. 
Charles F. Deems. D D. 12ma.. 20 

77-78. Heroes^ and Holidavs. Rev. 

W; F. Crafts. 12mo. 2 pts., both 30 
79. Reminlscrnres of Rev. Lyman 
' £eecher,D.D. 8vo 10 



FUNK & WAGNALLS, 10 and -12^Dey St., NEW YORK. 



BRAIN AN D NE RVE FOOD. 

VITALIZED PHOS-PHITES 

COMPOSED OF THE 

UTerve-CHving Principles of the Ox-Brain and Wheat-Gsrm. 

It restores the energy lost by Nervousness or Indigestion; reUeves Lassitude anc 
Neuralgia; refreslies the nerves tired by worry, excitement, or excessire brain fatigue 
strengthens a failing memory, and gives renewed vigor in all diseases of Nervous Exhaus 
tion or Debility. It is the only PREVENTIVE OF CONSUMPTION. 

It aids in the mental and bodily growth of children. Under its use thi 
teeth come easier, the skin grows plumper and smoother ; the brain aoquirn 
more readily and sleeps more sweetty. An iU-fed brain learns no lesBOM, 
and is peevish. It gives a happier childhood. 

Physicians have used a million Packages. It is not a secret remedy; 
the formula is on every label. 

By Druggists or ly Mail, $1. 

send for drcmr. F . CROSBY CO.. 666 S'lxth AvetiuB. N.i. 



SOBMER 



The enviable position 
80HMER & CO. hold 
among American Piano 
manufacturer* is solely 
due to <he merits of 
Mieir Instruments. 




They are used in Cn 
servalories, Seheo| 
and Seminaries on t\ 
count of their superiJ 
tone and unequalled d| 
rabilily. 



xxuEUPXixtJEUEix) lara: xiXs^AJOxsrca- .A.».a?iBiT«. 



SOH Ml E R' OL CO* ! 149, l$t, 153, and ,155 East. Fourteenth I 



1 ^ ' 











\ t^l^^A 







