ny 


Par ny 
rat Mou 














heroes of the Reformation 





EDITED BY 


Samuel Macauley Jackson 
PROFESSOR OF CHURCH HISTORY, NEW YORK 
UNIVERSITY 


Avatpécets xaptopatwv, To S€ avTO mvedMa. 


DIVERSITIES OF GIFTS, BUT THE SAME SPIRIT. 


HULDREICH ZWINGLI 











HULDRICH ZWINGLI. 
FROM A MEZZOTINT BY R. HOUSTON. 


HULDREICH ZWINGLI 


THE REFORMER OF GERMAN 
SWITZERLAND BR 


1484-1531 


BY 


SAMUEL MACAULEY JACKSON 


PROFESSOR OF CHURCH HISTORY, NEW YORK UNIVERSITY 


TOGETHER WITH 

An Historical Survey of Switzerland before the Reforma- 

tion, by Prof. John Martin Vincent, Johns Hopkins 

University ; and a Chapter on Zwingli’s Theology by 
Prof. Frank Hugh Foster, University of California 


Geb. PMUENAM?S SONS 
NEW YORK AND LONDON 
The Rnickerbocker Press 

Igo! 


Theology | ibrary 


SCHOOL OF Ti” OLOGY 
AT CLAREMONT 
California 


CopyRIGHT, 1900 
BY 
SAMUEL MACAULEY JACKSON 


Wmiversity of Southerm Cabiiprnin 


The Rnickerbocker Press, Hew Work 


Rel. 24 y Sake 


483) 
MY BROTHER 


porraysuetL,  PUms soues PHOAK ssIPOUIeIN 


ome. 


-F 


Fens 


ae 


RMA TDN ROA GO 





PREFACE 


N 1872 or 1873, the author, who was at that time 
a student in the Union Theological Seminary in 
New York City, heard that most inspiring teacher, 
Professor Roswell Dwight Hitchcock, say, in passing, 
while lecturing on Church history, that Zwingli’s 
theory of the Lord’s Supper was ‘‘a low, thin 
view,’ and that Zwingli himself was ‘‘ a much- 
neglected man.’’ These remarks turned the 
author’s attention to Zwingli, and ever since he 
has been interested in him. 

In 1895, the author projected the series upon 
““ The Heroes of the Reformation.’’ It was taken 
up by the present publishers in January, 1896. The 
author began this book on the 1oth of February of 
that year, but composition upon it has been fre- 
quently interrupted and the manuscript laid aside 
for months ata time. Its sources are fully revealed 
in the references and notes. Of these sources the 
chief have been the letters by and to Zwingli, filling 
two volumes in the modern edition of his complete 
works; the contemporary history of the Reformation 
in Switzerland -by Heinrich Bullinger, the successor 
of Zwingli; the Acts of the Council of the City of 
Zurich during the period covered by the volume, 
and the similar collection of the Acts of the Councils 


Vv 


vi Preface 


in other cities for the same period. These scource- 
studies have been made independently but under the 
direction of the three biographies of Zwingli worthy 
of the name and of their theme, viz., those by Raget 
Christoffel (Elberfeld, 1857; excellent English trans- 
lation by John Cochran, Edinburgh, 1858), by Johann 
Caspar Moerikofer (Leipzig, 1867-69, two volumes), 
and by Rudolf Staehelin (Basel, 1895-97, two vol- 
umes); and to these works the author would here 
pay his tribute of profound respect. He could not 
have written this book without them. Like Staehe- 
lin he has built his book upon the Zwingli corre- 
spondence, but he had adopted this plan before he 
began to read Staehelin. Much help has also been 
afforded by the monographs quoted in the notes, 
and especially by Zwzngliana (Zurich, 1897, sgg.), 
the semi-yearly organ of Zwingli studies, started 
and ably carried on by the enthusiastic and thor- 
oughly competent Zwingli student, Professor Egli, 
of the University of Zurich. 

This book is a biography of Towing The text is 
intended to give to the general reader the principal 
facts of his life, while the numerous notes, excursus, 
and references are intended for special students. 
It is also as much as possible matter of fact. Few 
statements in it are in the least conjectural, and 
nothing has been put into it in the way of rhetoric 
or to occupy space. The author has tried to be im- 
partial and certainly has avoided eulogy. The 
book is also restricted to the work of its subject, and 
is not a history of the Reformation in Zurich—much 
less in Switzerland — except so far as Zwingli was 


Preface vii 


directly active in it. Moreover, it is not an exposi- 
tion of Zwingli’s theology, philosophy, and ethics, 
for almost all that the volume contains on those 
themes is found in Professor Foster’s chapter and in 
the Appendix. 

When the volume was begun the author had the 
design to publish a complete English translation of 
the writings of Zwingli. To this end he had a com- 
plete translation made of the Zwingli correspond- 
ence and of a number of the treatises. It is not now 
at all likely that the project spoken of will be carried 
out, except in a partial way, but the author is able, 
through the generosity of his publishers, to include 
in this volume Zwingli’s sermon which was the first 
printed defence of the Reformation already begun 
in Zurich, translated by Prof. Lawrence A. McLouth 
of the New York University; and Zwingli’s Con- 
fession of Faith, the last in the translation of the 
Rev. Prof. Dr. H. E. Jacobs, by his kind permis- 
sion. In this connection the author calls attention 
to Professor Reichenbach’s translation of Zwingli’s 
‘““ Christian Education ’’ (Collegeville, Pa., Thomp- 
son Brothers, 1899), and to the announcement that 
the Department of History of the University of 
Pennsylvania will publish shortly after the appear- 
ance of this volume a number of treatises of 
Zwingli’s which the author had translated for his 
projected complete translation mentioned above, 
namely: 

I. From the Zurich German, by Lawrence A. 
McLouth, Professor of German in New York 
University: (1) The Colloquy of January 23, 1523, 


Vili Preface 


between the delegation from the Bishop of Con- 
stance, the local clergy, and Zwingli, wherein the 
scope of the proposed Reformation was first set 
forth, attacked, and defended; (2) Zwingli’s Mar- 
riage Ordinance of May Io, 1525. 

Il, From: ithe. Latin by’ Henry Preble: +G@) 
Zwingli’s account of the visit of the delegation 
from the Bishop of Constance on April 7-9, 1522, 
to investigate the rising reform movement in Zurich; 
(2) The petition of certain of the Zurich clergy, 
written by Zwingli, to the Bishop of Constance, to 
be allowed freely to preach the Gospel, and more 
especially to marry (1522); (3) Zwingli’s attack upon 
the Baptists (1527); (4) The Colloquy of Marburg, 
1529; (5) The Introduction to Isaiah (1529). 

To these he has added the translation from the 
Latin he made himself of the life of Zwingli by 
Oswald Myconius, Zwingli’s bosom friend and ard- 
ent admirer. It is interesting but defective, and 
its statements need to be controlled by later 
researches. 

In order to get local colouring and photographs 
and to see Zwingli manuscripts, the author made, in 
the summer of 1897, a special journey to all the 
places in Switzerland which are associated with 
Zwingli, and also to Marburg in Hesse. An account 
of this journey appeared in the New York Evangelist, 
for June 9, 1898. 

The four years of intimate association with Zwingli 
which the author has enjoyed have greatly increased 
his respect for the man. But though Zwingli has 
won his high regard, he is unable, through his own 


Preface ix 


inability, perhaps, to appreciate greatness, to value 
him so highly as some do. He does not put him in 
the front rank of the great men of the world, nor 
in Reformation history on equality with Luther and 
Calvin. His defects are patent; his literary work 
is so frequently marred by haste that while it served 
its immediate ends well it has less interest for the 
after world; in his treatment of the Baptists he fol- 
lowed only conventional lines and was prejudiced 
and cruel—the author is himself not a Baptist — his 
jealousy of Luther was a mark of weakness; in the 
latter part of his life he was more a politician than 
he should have been. But on the other hand he 
led the Reformation movement in German Swit- 
zerland, and spent his days in the service of his 
conception of the truth. He was a generous, self- 
sacrificing, lovable character, whose politico-religious 
writings reveal the stalwart Swiss who could not be 
bribed to silence, the man who saw clearly the cause 
of his country’s decline, but who loved his country 
in spite of all her faults with a passionate devotion, 
and for her sake laid down his life. It is as a man, 
as an indefatigable worker, as a broad-minded 
scholar, as an approved player of a large part ona 
small stage, that the author admires Zwingli and 
commends him to others. Whether he was right in 
his theology the author does not here discuss; nor 
is he at all concerned to expound and defend his 
distinctive teachings. But he believes that if the 
four great continental Reformers—Luther, Melanch- 
thon, Zwingli, and Calvin—should appear to-day, 
the one among them who would have to do least 


x Preface 


to adapt himself to our modern ways of thought, 
and the man who would soonest gather an enthusi- 
astic following, would be Huldreich Zwingli, the 
Reformer of German Switzerland. 

It remains now to acknowledge with hearty thanks 
the co-operation of a number of persons among 
whose friends the author would fain ask to be 
numbered. First of all he must give his thanks to 
the authors of the introductory and supplementary 
chapters, Professors Vincent and Foster respect- 
ively, both of whom have greatly increased the 
value of the volume by their labours. Professor 
Vincent has won a reputation as a student of Swiss 
history, and he embodies in his chapter much original 
research. Professor Foster studied his theme afresh 
for the book, and gives here his maturest thought 
upon it. Next he would thank Mr. Henry Preble 
of New York City and Prof. George William Gil- 
more of Bangor Theological Seminary, and his col- 
league, Prof. Lawrence A. McLouth of the New York 
University, for the translations which have been 
already mentioned in this Preface. He considers 
himself particularly fortunate in securing such su- 
perior scholars to join him in these Zwingli studies, 
and he adds that those who will take the pains to 
compare these translations with the originals will be 
impressed with their fidelity and liveliness. He 
thanks also Rev. Prof. Dr. Henry E. Jacobs for per- 
mission to reprint his translation of Zwingli’s Con- 
fession of Faith; the Rev. Dr. James Isaac Good, of 
Reading, Pennsylvania, the historian of the German 
Reformed Church, for the loan of several photo- 


Preface xi 


graphs, from his large collection, for illustration of 
this volume; Hermann Escher, Ph.D., City Librar- 
ian of Zurich, for permission to have two pages of 
Zwingli’s manuscript copy of the Pauline Epistles 
photographed, and for information upon some points 
utilised in this volume ; Prof. Emil Egli, Ph.D., 
D.D., of the theological faculty of the University of 
Zurich, for permission to reproduce the plan of the 
battle of Cappel from his monograph upon it, and to 
the publishers for their permission also; Rev. Charles 
Ripley- Gillett, D-D.,..L.H.D:.,° Librarian of: the 
Union Theological Seminary, New York City, and 
Judge Henry W. Bookstaver, of the same city, for 
the loan of books; and Rev. Nathaniel Weiss, the 
deeply learned Secretary of the French Protestant 
Society in Paris, for the gift of several Zwingli 
pamphlets. He would also make his general ac- 
knowledgments to those who have expressed interest 
in his work, and assure them that the shortcomings 
of this volume are not due to any shirking of work 
nor curtailing of expenditure of time, money, and 
thought to find out the facts. The author trusts 
that this attempt to present the life and work of 
Zwingli will do something to rescue him from the 
neglect into which he has fallen, and bring him into 
greater prominence. 
SAMUEL MACAULEY JACKSON. 


NEw York City, 
December 15, 1900. 





CONTENTS 


PREFACE 


SOME INDISPENSABLE AIDS TO THE STUDY OF 
ZWINGLI 


INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER BY J. M. VINCENT: AN 
HISTORICAL SURVEY 


CHAPTER I. 
CHILDHOOD AND YOUTH. 1484-1506 . 
Excursus on Zwingh’s Parents, Uncles, Broth- 
ers, and Sisters 


CHAPTER II. 


At GLaRus, 1506-1516 
Lixcursus on Zwinglt’s Copeessdodeitee in beee: 
eral, and on that of the Glarean Period in 
Particular 


CHAPTER III. 


AT EINSIEDELN. 1516-1518 : : 
LExcursus on Zwingli’s Papal Pension 


CHAPTER IV. 
OPENING YEAR IN ZURICH. I519 ; 
Excursus: I. On Zwingli’s Autographic iat 
inus, t. ¢., Self-made Transcript of the Paul- 
ine Epistles , . ; ane ae: ; ; 
xill 


PAGE 


Xvli 


49 


60 


68 


gt 


94 
IT4 


11? 


135 


Xiv Contents 


IT, On Zwingli’s Preaching against the Pen- 
stoners and Pensions : ; : : 

ITI. On the Allusions to Luther in the Zwinglt 
Correspondence of I5I9 


CHAPTER V. 

PREPARING FOR THE REFORMATION, 1520-1521 . 
CHAPTER VI. 

THE REFORMATION BEGINS. 1522 
CHAPTER Vid: 


THE REFORMATION DEFENDED (THE First Dis- 
PUTATION). 1523 


CHAP IE RW ELE. 


THe REFORMATION ESTABLISHED (THE SECOND 
DIsPUTATION). 1523-1525 


CHAPTER IX. 


GEROLD MEYER voN KNOoNAU, HUTTEN, AND 
ERASMUS. 1523 


CHAPTER X. 


THE REFORMATION IN ZURICH COMPLETED (Mass 
ABOLISHED). 1524. 


CHAPTER XI. 


PuBLIC MARRIAGE AND LETTERS OF 1524. 


CHAPTER: XII. 


Tue INNER COURSE OF THE ZURICH REFORMA- 
TION. (1522-1539... oie Ber aaah: 


PAGE 


E39 


144 


179 


wa 


211 


222 


231 


238 


Contents 


CHAPTER  XIIr. 


THE FINAL STAGE OF THE ZWINGLIAN REFORM- 
ATION. 1524-1529. 


CHAPTER XIV. 


THE First CappEL WAR AND THE COLLOQUY OF 
MARBURG. 1529 . ; ; : 2 


CHAPTER -XV. 


ZWINGLI’S POLITICAL ACTIVITY IN HIS CLOSING 
YEARS. 1529-1531 


CHAPTER XVI. 


THE Last YEAR OF ZWINGLI’s LIFE. 1531 


SUPPLEMENTARY CHAPTER BY F. H. FOSTER: 
ZWINGLI’S THEOLOGY, PHILOSOPHY, AND 
ETHICS 


APPENDIX. I. ON THE SELECTION OF Foops 
2. ZWINGLI’S CONFESSION OF FAITH, 


INDEX 


XV 


PAGE 


266 


ys) 


323 


336 


365 


404 
452 


485 





ILLUSTRATIONS 


HULDREICH ZWINGLI : ; ; Frontispiece 
From a painting 

SCHOOL SIGN 5 é cS . 

From a photograph. 


ZWINGLI’S BIRTHPLACE, WILDHAUS . . . . 
From a photograph. 


VIEW OF WESEN, WHERE ZWINGLI’S BOYHOOD WAS 
SPENT ° . . . . . . . 
From a photograph. 


VIEW OF THE RHINE AT BASEL ° ° . . 
From a photograph. 


WILDHAUS, LOOKING SOUTH, SHOWING VIEW OF 
CHURFIRSTEN 


. . . 


From a photograph. 


VIEW OF RAPPERSWYL IN ZWINGLI’S DAY . ° 
From an old print. 


GENERAL VIEW OF GLARUS : ° . . : 
From a photograph. 
THE CHURCH AT GLARUS WHEREIN ZWINGLI 
PREACHED. : . J 
From an old print. 
VIRGIN AND CHILD IN CHAPEL AT EINSIEDELN 
From Ringholz’s Zzusiedeln. 


EINSIEDELN, . : : , ; 
From a contemporary drawiug. 


xvii 


PAGE 


36 


5° 


54 


58 


64 
68 


76 


88 


104 


IIo 


XVili Illustrations 


EINSIEDELN CHAPEL OF THE VIRGIN AS IN ZWING- 
LIS DAY 


. 


From Ringholz’s Zinszedeln. 


ZWINGLI’S COMMUNION CUP AT GLARUS. : . 
From a photograph. 


FAC-SIMILE OF TWO PAGES IN ZWINGLI’S AUTO- 
GRAPHIC PAULINUS ci ° 
From a photograph, 


OLD ZURICH F é ° 
From an old print. 


THE GREAT COUNCIL’S HALL AT ZURICH, WHERE 
THE RELIGIOUS DISPUTATIONS OF JAN. 29 AND 


OCT. 26, 1523, WERE: HELD, —*. ‘ : 
From an old print. 


THE GREAT MINSTER, ZURICH. . . . . 
From a photograph. 


THE TAMINA GORGE IN WHICH BAD PFAEFERS IS 


LOCATED . . . . : . . . 
From a photograph, 


ZURICH FRQM THE QUAY BRIDGE . . . . 
From a photograph. 

BERN CATHEDRAL . : . 

From a photograph. 

PRIEST CONVERTED AT THE PREACHING OF ZWINGLI 


IN BERN . . ° ‘ . . . 
From a picture. 


FAC-SIMILE OF A LETTER BY ZWINGLI, SEPT. 3, 1528, 


MARBURG CASTLE. > . : 
From a photograph. 
MARBURG CASTLE, INTERIOR. THE APARTMENT IN 


WHICH THE COLLOQUY WAS HELD . . . 
From a photograph, 


PAGE 


116 


I20 


162 


186 


202 


216 


260 


280 


286 


304 


Joga 


322 


Illustrations 


BASEL CATHEDRAL . ; fap Saly e , 
From a photograph. 
ZWINGLI DEPARTING FOR THE BATTLE OF CAPPEL 
From a picture. 
PLAN OF THE BATTLE OF CAPPEL, OCT. II, 1531 
From the plan made by Prof. Egli. 
ZWINGLIS’ DAUGHTER REGULA AND HIS GRAND- 
DAUGHTER : ° 
From a picture. 
ZWINGLI’S HELMET, SWORD, AND SO-CALLED BATTLE- 
AXES F : - : 
From a photograph. 
ZWINGLI’S MEMORIAL ON THE SITE OF HIS DEATH, 
From a photograph. 


THE ZWINGLI STATUE IN ZURICH, UNVEILED IN 


1885 . : : . : : 
From a photograph. 


ST. PETER’S, BASEL, IN WHICH ZWINGLI ONCE HELD A 
BENEFICE . . . 5 . 


MAP OF GERMAN SWITZERLAND ; Lind of Vo 
Specially drawn for this work, 


X1X 


PAGE 


334 


354 


350 


. 360 


. 380 


404 


. 452 


- 47° 
Lume 





SOME INDISPENSABLE AIDS TO THE STUDY 
OF ZWINGLI 


FOR A FULL BIBLIOGRAPHY OF ZWINGLI 
FINSLER, GEORG. Zwingli-Libliographie. Verszeichniss der 
gedruckten Schriften von und tiber Ulrich Zwingl. 
Ziirich : Orell Fiissli, 1897. 


FOR ZWINGLI’S WORKS 


HUuLDREICH ZWINGLI’S WERKE. £rste vollstindige Aus- 
gabe durch Melchior Schuler und Foh, Schulthess. 
Ziirich : Friedrich Schulthess, 1828-61. 8 vols. in 
II parts, with Supplement, 8vo. 

The German writings: vol. i. (1522— March, 1524), 1828, pp. 
viii., 668 ; vol. ii., Ist part (1526- January, 1527), 1830, iv., 506; 
vol. ii., 2nd part (1522- July, 1526), 1822, viii., 531; vol. ii., 3rd 
part (1526-1531), 1841, iv., 111. The Latin writings: vol. iii. 
(1521-1526), 1832, viii., 677; vol. iv. (1526 sgg.), 1841, iv., 307; 
vol. v., 1835, iv., 788; vol. vi., Ist part, 1836, 766; vol. vi., 
and part, 1838, 340; vol. vii., 1830, vili., 580; vol. vili., 1842, 
iv., 715. Supplement by Georg Schulthess u. Gaspar Mar- 
thaler, 1861 (both German and Latin), iv., 74. 

Vols. v., vi., parts I and 2, contain Zwingli’s commentaries, 
which are on Genesis, Exodus, Psalms, Isaiah, Jeremiah, 
Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, Our Lord’s Passion, Resurrection, 
and Ascension, Romans, I and 2 Corinthians, Philippians, 
Colossians, 1 and 2 Thessalonians, James, Hebrews, and 1 
John, all in Latin; vols. vii. and viii, contain the correspond- 
ence. 

A new edition of the Complete Works is in preparation. It 
is greatly needed, although that now extant is worthy of the 
highest praise. It superseded the two previous editions, the 
first by Rudolf Gualther, Zwingli’s son-in-law, Ziirich: Fro- 
schauer, 1545, 4 vols., 4to; the second isa reprint, Ziirich : 
Froschauer, 1581, 4 vols., 4to. 


xxi 


xxii Huldreich Zwingli 


FOR ZWINGLI’S THEOLOGY 


M. Huldreich Zwingli’s simmtliche Schriften im Auszuge. 
Ziirich : Gessner, 1819. 2 vols., 8vo (pp. xxv., 555, 
640). 

Topically arranged by thorough Zwingli students. Very con- 
venient to find out exactly what Zwingli said upon any theme, 
which the ample index enables one to do. The contents are 
entirely in a modern German translation of the original Latin 
and old Zurich German. A reprint with references to the 
Schuler and Schulthess edition of Zwingli mentioned above 
would be a worthy undertaking. 

Baur, Aucust. Zwinglis Theologie. Ihr Werden und 
thr System. Halle: Max Niemeyer, 1885-89. 2 
vols., 8vo (pp. viil., 543; ix., 864). 


The classic work on Zwingli’s theology. 


FOR ZWINGLI’S BIOGRAPHY 


Archiv fiir die schweizerischen Reformationsgeschichte. 
Herausgegeben auf Veranstaltung des schweizer- 
ischen Piusvereins durch die Direction: Graf 
Theodor Scherer-Boccard, Friedrich Fiala, Peter 
Bannwart. Freiburg im Br.: Herder, 1868-75. 3 
vols., 8vo (pp. Ixxvi., 856; vi. 5573 vi., 693). 


These volumes tell the story from the Roman Catholic side. 


BULLINGER, HEINRICH. Leformationsgeschichte nach dem 
Autographon. Werausgegeben auf Veranstaltung der 
vaterlindisch - historischen Gesellschaft in Ztirich 
von J. J. Hottinger und H. H. Végeli. Frauenfeld : 
Ch. Beyel, 1838-40. 3 vols., 8vo (pp. xix.,. 446; 
Vill., 404 3 vili., 371). 

Bullinger was Zwingli’s successor ; an honest man and a dili- 
gent collector of authentic material. He wrote inthe Zurich 


Swiss German, which has to be learnt by those familiar only 
with the modern High German. 


Aids to the Study of Zwingli xxiii 


CurisTOFFEL, Racet. Huldreich Zwingl. Leben und 
ausgewahlte Schriften. Elberfeld: R. L. Friderichs, 


1857. 8vo (pp. xiv., 414; writings, 351). 

The same translated by John Cochran : Zwingli ; or, The Rise 
of the Reformation in Switzerland. A life of the Reformer, 
with some notices of his time and contemporaries, by R. Christof- 
Sel, Pastor of the Reformed Church, Wintersingen, Switzer- 
land. Edinburgh: T. & T. Clark, 1858. 8vo (pp. vii., 461). 

The translation omits entirely the selected writings of Zwing- 
li, but otherwise is eminently satisfactory. The book itself is 
topically arranged, and is entirely reliable, but Christoffel 
gives no references, and so only one familiar with the writings 
of Zwingli knows whence his numerous and judicious quotations 
come. Christoffel made the transfusions of Zwingli’s treatises 
into modern High German, referred to below, and in the notes 
in this book. 

Eeul, Emit. Actensammlung sur Geschichte der Ziircher 
Reformation in den F ahren 1519-1533. Mit Unter- 
stiitzung der Behérden von Canton und Stadt Ziirich. 
Ziirich : J. Schabelitz, 1879. 8vo (pp. viii., 947). 

It is a pity that this book issoscarce, It should be reprinted. 
It collects innumerable items of great interest to the Zwingli 
student in the very language of the time, and presents a picture 
of Zurich life of all kinds by contemporaries. Its composition 
was a gigantic labour, only possible to youth, enthusiasm, and 
indefatigable, intelligent industry. 

MOERIKOFER, JOHANN Caspar. Ulrich Zwingli nach 
den urkundlichen Quellen. Leipzig: S. Herzel, 
1867-69. Two parts, 8vo (pp. viii., 3513 vi, 525). 

The author knew his subject thoroughly. His matter is ar- 


ranged in short chapters, his references are mostly to manuscript 
sources, and singularly few are directly to Zwingli’s writings. 


Mycontius, OswaLp, Vita Huldrict Zwinglit. 
This is the original life, very interesting but a mere sketch, 
The best edition is in the Vite quatuor Reformatorum [Luther 
by Melanchthon, Melanchthon by Camerarius, Zwingli by Myco- 
nius, and Calvin by Beza], edited by Neander, Berlin, 1841, pp.14. 


Xxiv Huldreich Zwingli 


STAEHELIN, Rupotr. Huldreich Zwingl. Sein Leben 
und Wirken, nach den Quellen dargestellt. Basel: 


Benno Schwabe, 1895-97. 2 vols., 8vo (pp. viii., 
5353 540). 

The author, who died in 1900, was for many years Professor 
of Theology in the University of Basel and lectured upon Zwing- 
li. The book has the calm strength of easy mastery of its 
materials. Only one thing detracts in the smallest degree from 
its usefulness to students of Zwingli,—the author frequently puts 
several references to the writings of Zwingli together at the bot- 
tom of the page in such a way that they are hard to separate. 
If these references could be assigned to the places where they 
properly belong, then Staehelin’s book would be in all respects 
beyond criticism. As it is, it will probably retain the first place 
among lives of Zwingli for years tocome—at least until theappear- 
ance of that new edition of Zwingli’s Works so eagerly awaited. 

STRICKLER, JOHANN. Actensammlung sur Schwetzer- 
ischen Reformationsgeschichte in den Fahren 1521- 
1532 im Anschluss an de gleichzeitigen eidgendssischen 
Abschiede. TZiitich: Meyer u. Zeller, 1878-84. 5 
vols., 8vo. 

Vol. i. (1521-1528), pp. vil., 724; vol. il. (1529-1530), 819; 
vol. iii. (1531, Jan.—Oct. 11), 647; vol. iv. (1531, Oct. 11,- Dec., 
1532), 730; vol. v. (1521-1532), 172, with bibliographical 
appendix, 81. 

Here are presented the raw materials of history in the shape of 
documents of all descriptions, chronologically arranged, as in 


Egli. The labour of compiling these volumes must have been 
immense. 


V6cELIN, J. K., GERoLD MEYER von Kwnonau, and 
others. Hzstorisch-geographischer Atlas der Schweiz 
in 15 Bléttern. Ziirich: F. Schulthess, 1868. 2nd 
€d.5 1870. Ouse: 

VOGELIN, SALOMON. Das alte Zirich. TZiirich: Orell, 
Fues & Co., 1828. New ed., much enlarged, 1878- 
90. 2 vols., 8vo (pp. xvil., 671; viii., 788). 


Invaluable, but so peculiarly arranged that consultation is 
difficult, 


Aids to the Study of Zwingli xxv 


FOR THE LATEST ZWINGLI RESEARCHES 


Zwingliana. Mittheilungen zur Geschichte Zwinglis und 
der Reformation. Herausgegeben von der Vereinigung 
Jur das Zwinglimuseum in Zurich. Tiirich, 1897 sgq. 


Two parts a year, edited by that tireless Zwingli student and 
scholar, Professor Emil Egli. Every Zwingli student should 
subscribe for it. 


ZWINGLI TRANSLATIONS 


Zeitgemasse Auswahl aus Huldreich Zwingli’s practischen 
Schriften. Aus dem Alt-Deutschen und Lateinischen in’s 
Schrifideutsche tibersetzt und mit den nothwendigsten 
geschichtlichen Erliuterungen versehen, von R. Chris- 
toffel, V.D.M. Ziirich: Meyer u. Zeller, 1843-1846. 


I2 parts. 
PLACE IN 1HE 
TITLE OF THE SELECTION COMPLETE 
WORKS 
I. Das Wort Gottes I. 53-82 
2. Christliche Einleitung I. 542-565 
3. Der Hirt I. 632-668 
4. Das Predigtamt Il. 1, 304-336 
5. Die Taufe II. 1, 230-303 
6. Das Abendmahl II. t, 427-468 
7. Eine géttliche Ermahnung an die ehrsamen 


Eidgenossen zu Schwyz, das sie sich vor 
fremden Herren hiiten II. 2, 287-298 
8. Eine ernstliche Ermahnung an die Eidgenos- 
sen, das sie sich nicht durch die List ihrer 


Feinde in Schaden bringen lassen II. 2, 315-326 
g. Auslegen und Begriindung der Schlussreden 

oder Artikel I. 170-424 
10. Die géttliche und die menschliche Gerechtig- 

keit I. 426-458 


11, Wer Ursache gebe zum Aufruhr, wer die 
wahren Anfrithrer seien, und wie man zu 
christlicher Einigkeit und Frieden gelangen 
moge Il. 1, 376-425 

12, Eine kurze Unterweisung wie man die Jugend 
in guten Sitten und Christlicher Zucht 
erziehen und Lehren solle | IV. 149-158 





XXVi Huldreich Zwingli 


Translations of more or less complete selections into modern 
high German are given by R. Christoffel in the Appendix to 
his biography as mentioned above, and by C. Sigwart in the Ap- 
pendix to his sketch of Zwingli (in Die vier Reformatoren, Stutt- 
gart, 1862), pp. 336-406 ; of especial interest is the first Bernese 
sermon in 1528, pp. 381-405; the second Bernese sermon is 
translated by R. Nesselmann (Buch der Predigten, Elbing, 
1858), pp. 689-692. 

Tn old English translations appeared of Zwingli’s ‘‘Confession 
of Faith,” two translations (Ziirich, March, 1543, and by 
Thomas Cotsforde, Geneva, 1555); of his ‘‘ Pastor,” London, 
1550; of his ‘‘ Certain Precepts,” [which is the same as ‘‘ The 
Christian Education of Truth” and ‘‘ Eine kurze Unterweisung,” 
mentioned on previous pages] London, 1548; and ‘‘ Short 
Pathway to the Right and True Understanding of the Holy and 
Sacred Scriptures,” [¢.e., Zwingli’s sermon on the Word of God, ] 
Worcester, 1550, translated by John Veron. 

The modern English translations are mentioned in the 
Preface to this biography and in the notes. 


INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER 


SWITZERLAND AT THE BEGINNING OF 
LHe six TEE NTH, CENRURY 


By JOHN MARTIN VINCENT, Pu.D., 


Associate Professor in Johns Hopkins University, 
Baltimore, Maryland 





SWITZERLAND AT THE BEGINNING 
OF THE SIXTEENTH CENTURY 


T the close of the fifteenth century the travel- 
ler in Switzerland would have found the pre- 
vailing races and languages firmly established in 
the places which they occupy to-day, but the people 
were not bound together by the same ties of govern- 
ment. Germans in the north and east, French in 
the west and south had long grown fast to the rocky 
soil, but they were grouped in small independent 
States, and lived under most diverse political condi- 
tions. For a long time there had existed a Swiss 
Confederation, but this did not include a consider- 
able number of the present members. Yet it must 
be said that most of the territory now known as 
Switzerland was in some manner attached to it by 
friendly alliances and by ties of common interest, 
so that in relation to outside nations they all stood 
together. The distinguishing feature of the Con- 
federation was, however, the feebleness of its unity 
within and the absolute independence of the separate 
States in matters of law and government. This fact 
had much to do with the history of the Reformation 
in Switzerland. So also had the previous history 
of some of the prominent States and cities. 


3 


4 Huldreich Zwingli 


The Swiss Confederation began in a union of 
three small German cantons in the centre of the 
country, all of them touching upon the Lake of 
Lucerne. At the outset this was a league of pastoral 
republics, whose wild and mountainous territory was 
not over thirty-five miles square. To this nucleus, 
however, were soon added neighbouring districts 
and cities, till, in the year 1353, they became the 
‘* League of Eight.’’ For a century and a quarter 
this was the extent of the Confederation. Uri, 
Schwyz, Unterwalden, Zug, Glarus, Lucerne, Zu- 
rich, and Bern were the members of the Union 
during the heroic struggle for freedom from the 
German Empire. Although they enjoyed the 
friendly assistance of others, this was also the ex- 
tent of the Confederation in the ‘‘ glorious period ”’ 
of the Burgundian wars, when Charles the Bold was 
defeated in 1476, and when, for a time, these 
mountaineers became the arbiters of Europe. Just 
at the opening of the sixteenth century the number 
of confederated cantons was increased to thirteen 
by the addition of Basel, Schaffhausen, and Appen- 
zell, while States like Geneva, Neuchatel, and the 
Grisons remained in the position of friendly allies. 

Part of this Confederation consisted of rural 
democracies engaged in pastoral or agricultural 
pursuits and governing themselves with most com- 
plete democracy. The other members were flourish- 
ing city States, like Bern, Lucerne, Zurich, and 
Basel, whose municipal population followed com- 
merce and industry with varying intensity, and 
whose governments were more or less aristocratic, 


An Historical Survey 5 


The original mountain States enjoyed the proud 
distinction of having founded Swiss freedom, but 
by this time the leadership in State policy as well as 
in general civilisation lay with the cities. Among 
these Zurich and Bern were pre-eminent in political 
influence. 

Toward the cities the rural cantons exhibited a 
jealousy which had for a long time prevented any 
additions to the Confederation and afterward caused 
trouble in federal politics. It was feared that the 
cities would endeavour to absorb the powers of the 
rural States, or, by their votes in the Diet, enact 
measures oppressive to the country people. This 
suspicion was not without some foundation, for the 
governments of the cities had been in the habit of 
treating the rural population of their own territories 
with less consideration. They often discriminated 
against the industry and productions of the people 
outside the walls of the towns and gave the city 
dwellers superior rights. 

On the other hand, the city States were greater 
in population, wealth, and intelligence, but the 
great city of Bern had no more votes in the Con- 
federation than the tiny democracy of Uri. Friction 
naturally followed, and occasionally there were open 
hostilities, followed by armed conflict. At times 
there were recriminations by means of duties on 
goods and by shutting off routes of transportation. 
On both sides great selfishness had been displayed, 
but the small cantons had been, on the whole, more 
obstinate, for they had, at times, nearly sacrificed 
the Confederation to maintain their local interests. 


6 Huldreich Zwingli 


Hence we may expect to find great contrasts be- 
tween the actions of the various parts of Switzer- 
land when new doctrines of religion upheave the 
established order of thinking. 

The great arena of political action was the federal 
congress, called the Diet, which met at stated in- 
tervals in the various large cities alternately. This 
Diet was an assembly of delegates from the various 
cantons, who came together to deliberate and to 
pass resolutions on matters of common interest. 
The passing of resolutions and recommendations 
was in reality the limit of their legislative power, for 
the delegations could not vote finally without the 
consent of their home governments. No act could 
be passed without the unanimous consent of all the 
cantons, and when a law was enacted there was no 
central government to enforce it. \ The execution of 
the laws was left to the cantonal governments, and 
there was no one to punish infraction except the 
offenders themselves. Consequently federal laws 
were obeyed in those States which saw fit to enforce 
them. 

Federal government, therefore, was a system of 
treaties and agreements chiefly touching foreign 
relations. The welfare of the citizen lay in the 
hands of his canton. To that he owed his alle- 
giance and patriotic devotion, and from that he ob- 
tained protection in the enjoyment of his liberties. 
The history of the reformation in the Church revolves 
about the fact that each State determined for itself 
the form of worship in its own territory. In spite 
of this independent sovereignty, however, the 


An Historical Survey 7 


political destiny of the nation lay, in considerable 
measure, in the hands of the Diet, for agreements 
with foreign Powers were made by that assembly. 


Mercenary Service 


At the beginning of the sixteenth century the 
Swiss were much courted by foreign governments 
desiring mercenary soldiers, and foreign ambassadors 
were constantly appearing before the authorities 
with weighty requests. A-meeting of the Diet in 
1512 at the city of Baden may serve as an example. 
The minutes for August 11. inform us that on that 
day in the hall of assembly the deputy of the Duke 
_ of Lorraine read a message respecting the passage of 
soldiers through that province. A representative 
of the Pope presented to the Confederation a sword, 
a hat, and two banners, together with privileges 
contained in a Bull, as honourable rewards for faith- 
ful services. An ambassy from the King of Spain 
requested that the Confederation should join in the 
league which had been formed between the Pope, 
the King of Spain, and the Republic of Venice. 
An ambassy from the Duke of Savoy hoped that 
former agreements with him would be maintained. 
Imperial ambassadors desired the confederates to 
join in a campaign in Burgundy. A motion was 
offered on the relations of the Confederation to the 
Duchy of Milan. An ambassy from the Republic 
of Venice desired to negotiate a treaty with the 
Swiss, and received answer that the conflict between 
the Emperor and the Venetians must be smoothed 
over before the Diet could consider the matter. On 


8 Huldreich Zwingli 


the following day further hearings were given to 
these Powers, and proposals were entertained which 
involved cessions of territory and large pecuniary 
rewards for military services. 

Thus we may see that the Swiss at the turning of 
the century were not an obscure people, busied only 
with their own affairs. They were for the moment 
a European Power, whose good-will and services 
were sedulously courted. The soldiers of Switzer- 
land fought in the armies of all the great States, 
sometimes on one side and sometimes on another, 
and were even found in opposing camps. The 
effects of this upon politics and morality were far 
reaching, for the Swiss at this time were not fight- 
ing for independence, nor in self-defence, but for 
the mercenary rewards of the employing Powers. 

The Diet was not the only authority brought in 
contact with foreign monarchs. Its meeting was 
a convenient place to negotiate with all Switzer- 
land at once, but it was necessary to deal with the 
cantonal governments also. Every little capital or 
legislature was approached by foreign emissaries on 
the subject of military aid. Enlistment was carried 
on by the States themselves, and contracts were 
made with foreign governments for the services of 
the companies required. Induced by the high pay 
and opportunities for plunder, the hardy mountain- 
eers eagerly ventured into any war. The demoral- 
ising effects of this system appeared not alone among 
the soldiery and in private life. Official corruption 
was universal, and was taken so much as a matter of 
course that it brought no disgrace to public men, 


An Historical Survey 9 


In order to gain favour with these statesmen, 
foreign monarchs vied with each other in granting 
subsidies, pensions, and special bribes. Persons in 
authority even accepted gifts from two or more 
Powers at the same time, and voted for the side 
which appeared the more profitable. Patriotism 
sank to a very low ebb, and statesmanship was 
busier with its rewards than with its duties. Money 
flowed into the country through numerous channels. 
There was the bounty to the State itself for its 
contingent, then the pensions to the statesmen for 
granting the same, followed by the pay of the 
soldiers themselves, and such plunder as they might 
have captured or ransomed while away. When the 
size and number of the mercenary contingents are 
taken into consideration, it will be seen that a large 
proportion of the population was in greater or less 
degree dependent on the foreign subsidies. The 
effect of this was not slow in coming. 

Even before the beginning of the sixteenth cen- 
tury the lawmakers, both cantonal and federal, had 
been conscious of the evil, and had been endeavour- 
ing to check enlistment in foreign service. The 
Diet repeatedly passed resolutions on the subject, 
but these were for the most part feeble attempts to 
prevent irregular and unofficial enlistments. For 
example, in 1479, it was resolved that every canton 
should require its soldiers to take oath not to go 
privately into foreign war. Some thought that 
offenders should be punished with death. The ter- 
ritorial governors were ordered to capture and im- 
prison all soldiers who had been fighting under the 


10 Huldreich Zwingli 


German Emperor, and to hold them till they should 
pay five pounds fine and should take oath not to 
enlist without permission of the authorities. In 
1488, the German Emperor, on his side, requested 
the confederates not to allow their soldiers to enlist 
in France without permission. The Governor of 
Baden was ordered to punish soldiers returning from 
France with ten pounds fine or imprisonment. In 
1492, another ordinance against unauthorised enlist- 
ment recommended a fine with imprisonment on 
bread and water.’ 

From time to time complaints were brought 
against the cantonal governments because they did 
not suppress ‘‘ running away to war,’’ and, on the 
other hand, cantons asked aid of the confederates to 
suppress the evil. Yet the anxiety seems to have 
been caused more by the irregularities than by the 
mercenary system itself. In 1498, a petition was re- 
ceived from Swiss soldiers serving against France in 
the armies in Burgundy requesting that no con- 
tingents from the Confederation be allowed to fight 
against them. The same Diet received an ambassy 
from the Emperor of Germany with a mission to 
disentangle other complications arising from simul- 
taneous enlistment in the service of that country. 

The root of the evil was discovered in due time, 


1 The acts of the Diet are to be found in the Amtliche Sammlung 
der Eidgendssischen Abschiede, 1245-1798, in 8 vols., 4to, published 
by the Swiss Federal Government. These documents are not ex- 
actly minutes of the Diet, but instructions given to the delegates at 
the adjournment of each meeting as to what they should refer to 
their home governments. Citations may be traced by the dates. 


An Historical Survey II 


but it was difficult to work any reform, for the law- 
makers themselves were entangled. The acceptance 
of pensions from foreign governments was common 
among the statesmen of all countries at this time. 
Public sentiment did not appear to frown on the 
practice unless in flagrant cases of disloyalty. Hence 
it is not surprising that the evil consequences 
were not immediately condemned in Switzerland. 
Furthermore, the military profession was a welcome 
career to the hard-worked peasantry of every can- 
ton, and offered rich and rapid rewards in place of 
the slow returns of ordinary labour. 

The time came, however, when good citizens, 
observing the moral effect of these things, en- 
deavoured not only to regulate enlistment but to 
suppress the pension system entirely. Resolutions, 
offered from time to time, condemned the practice 
and urged the States to prohibit the entrance of 
pension money into their borders. A notable ex- 
ample of this was an agreement brought forward in 
the Diet of July, 1503. The cantons were asked 
to enforce a law to this effect: 


“That no one in the Confederation, whether he be 
townsman, countryman, or subject peasant, clerical or 
layman, noble or unnoble, rich or poor, of whatever 
rank or condition, shall from this day on receive from 
emperors, kings, princes, lords, or cities, spiritual or 
temporal powers, or from anyone whomsoever, any pen- 
sion, service money, provision, allowance, salary, or 
gifts, whether this come to himself or through his wife, 
children, servants, or others, whereby it come to his use, 
either secretly or openly.” 


12 Huldreich Zwingli 


Any person who shall be convicted of disobedience 
to this order shall be 


“forever removed from the honours and offices which he 
may have, and shall not be employed in honourable af- 
fairs, as in courts of justice, councils, embassies, and such 
matters, but from that hour on he shall be arrested by 
the proper authorities and punished in person and goods 
as they may think best.” 


Although this resolution was accepted by all the 
cantons, it was not an easy matter to enforce, for 
the enlistment itself was not stopped. According 
to the same act, recruiting must be official, and only 
irregular running away to war was to be punished. 
The pensions went on as before, and in a few years 
the law was abrogated by a resolution to allow the 
cantons to do as they pleased. 

In the Italian campaigns of the first two decades 
of the sixteenth century the Swiss suffered severe 
losses in men, but the effect of this was to bring 
more money into the country, for soldiers were 
harder to obtain. In consequence of the treaties 
entered into between 1516 and 1521 Switzerland 
was deluged with coin. From France there were 
annual subsidies of 3000 livres to each of the can- 
tons, and to the Confederation as a whole a sum of 
700,000 crowns was offered in one payment as in- 
demnity for the wars of 1513 and 1515. At the 
same time the Duke of Milan agreed to pay 150,000 
ducats at once and 40,000 ducats annually. Besides 
these sums there were subsidies from Austria and 
from the Pope. Although these promises were not 


An Historical Survey 13 


always punctually fulfilled, nevertheless a constant 
stream of foreign gold poured into the valleys of 
Helvetia.’ 

The effect of the military service was brutalising. 
The foreign gold so easily obtained brought with it 
corruption of morals. The chronicler Anshelm of 
Bern, writing about the year 1500, complains bit- 
terly of the changes seen in the manners and customs 
of the people. To be sure, he excites himself over 
many unessential matters of dress, but they all in- 
dicate to him a passion for extravagance and luxury 
leading to moral debasement. Such were shaggy 
hats with many ostrich plumes for men, cloth from 
London and Lombardy, long coats with many folds, 
silk jackets even for peasants, parti-coloured stock- 
ings, slashed shoes with rings on the toes, silver 
pipes, and silk sashes. To his mind all these go 
with gambling, disorderly shouting, extravagant 
dances, overmuch eating, and the consumption of 
foreign wines, confections, and spices. Rich men 
built themselves great houses with high glass wind- 
ows full of painted coats of arms. Women, like- 
wise, must have costly dresses and ornaments, 


“and as these expensive manners have increased, so in 
the same measure have increased the lust for honours 
and goods, trickery and unfaithfulness, unbelief, haughti- 
ness, pride, debauchery, scorn, and with them all arts for 
gaining money, especially those things which serve the 


1 The sums above mentioned have a present silver value of about 
$1,871,600, but the purchase power was many times greater at the 
beginning of the sixteenth century. 


14 Huldreich Zwingli 


tongue [palate] and trades which are serviceable to 
luxurious pride.” * 


Opinions of Foreigners 


The opinions of certain foreign observers of the 
time are not flattering. For instance, Balcus, an 
ambassador from Milan, wrote between the years 
1500 and 1504 a description of the Confederation, 
in which the annoyances of a foreigner are mingled 
with valuable impressions of the people.” Coming 
from the bright skies of Italy and from the higher 
civilisation of the southern cities, it is not to be ex- 
pected that the Italians would be altogether pleased 
with their mountain neighbours. 

Says Balcus: 


“Although the Swiss are altogether unhewn barbarians, 
yet they live among themselves according to certain 
laws which they consider so holy that no one dare to 
break or overstep them, because it is a crime to have 
broken them even in the slightest. Our civil law, how- 
ever, our good manners and honourable customs, and, 
what is worse, their own laws and ordinances respecting 
other nations, they do not themselves observe at all, be- 
cause they are without fidelity, uprightness, and hu- 
manity ; but they seize rudely everything before them, 
building upon obstinacy, not upon wisdom.” 

“When they start out to war they swear a solemn oath 
that every man who sees one of his comrades desert, or 


1 Anshelm, Berner-Chronik (Anno, 1503). O6cchsli, Quellenbuch, 
ii., 464. 

? Balcus, Descriptio Helvetia, edited by Bernouilli for Quellen zur 
Schweizergeschichte, vi., 78: Oechsli, Quellenduch, ii., 470. 


An Historical Survey 15 


act the coward in battle, will cut him down on the spot, 
for they believe that the courage and persistency of 
warriors is greater when they, out of fear of death, do 
not fear death.” 

“In peace, however, and when one citizen brings 
complaints against another citizen, they bind themselves 
also by an oath, for, if they have any business with one 
another and fall into strife, as it often happens, and 
seize their weapons or begin to curse each other, if then 
another party comes forward, places himself in their 
midst, and begs them to lay down the weapons and to 
talk over the matter in peace, and commands them to be 
peaceful, and if one of the contending parties will not 
hearken, the man who offers himself as a peacemaker is 
bound by oath to kill him, and that without punishment.” 

“They begin a battle after they have formed their 
phalanx according to the old methods of war, and stead- 
fast and fearless, they are almost indifferent to life and 
death. In court they judge not according to the written 
laws but according to common custom, and believe that 
nothing is more favourable to justice than a quick judg- 
ment, wherefore they overthrow the procedures and 
sentences of court. To curse God and heavenly things 
is regarded by them as a crime worthy of death, and if 
any one of them is prosecuted they do not allow any 
pity to prevent him from being punished according to 
the law.” 

“Although accustomed to robbery yet the people have 
an extravagant generosity to the poor. The scholars in 
the study of. Latin, if there are any such, beg their living 
with singing. Their stately but remarkably extravagant 
daily meals they spin out to great length, so that they 
spend two to three hours at table eating their many 
dishes and barbarous spices with much noise and con- 


16 Huldreich Zwingli 


versation. They show ill-will against those who despise 
this kind of table pleasure.” 

‘‘ When princely ambassadors arrive, the heads of the 
city, or certain ones from the council, visit them imme- 
diately to give them greeting. At breakfast or supper 
there is a continual crowd around them, including 
not only the invited or important persons in office, but 
with these many insignificant people. All these the 
ambassadors must receive in a friendly way and feed 
them richly, otherwise they will be followed with per- 
petual hate and ill-will. In among these will creep also 
clowns and jugglers and whoever understands amusing 
arts, and one must receive this kind of people, admire 
their wit, and before going away must leave them some 
kind of a present or reward for their art. Furthermore 
the council is accustomed to send to every ambassador, 
daily, several measures of wine at the hours for breakfast 
and supper. The persons who bring these things are 
rewarded by the receiver of the gift with a small gold- 
piece, and at his departure with at least one more gold- 
piece. Whereupon the whole expense is charged to 
public good and advantage.” 

“Custom allows that women, who on account of the 
beauty of their faces and the attraction of their persons 
are uncommonly lovable, may be embraced and kissed 
anywhere and by anybody without distinction.* The 
cultivation of the intellect is rare and the noble virtues 
receive no honour. This low-born people, this lot of 
peasants, born in mountains and woods and brought up 
in a narrow hole, have begun to play the lord in Europe, 
and think nothing of enlarging the borders of their own 
dominion if anyone allows them the opportunity to do 


‘Erasmus says this was true in England at the time (Letter to 
Anderlin, Zf7s., Ixv., quoted by Froude, Zife and Letters, Pp. 45). 


An Historical Survey 17 


so. Moreover, there is no doubt that wars, peace, the 
victories and the misfortunes of famous kings, depend 
upon them, This little band of cowherds and shepherds, 
who pass the day in the drawing and the thickening of 
milk ; who are, so to speak, without law and ignorant of 
things human and divine; will prescribe laws for all 
others and sit in judgment on the affairs of princes, as 
though the appeal and the highest judgment belonged 
to them. For assumption and violent passion, the dis- 
eases which are so near to madness, they surpass all 
other mortal beings, but among themselves they agree 
so well together that as a reward and fruit of their 
unity they enjoy an undisturbed and continuous free- 
dom, to which indeed the quarrels of others have given 
assistance.” 


Johannes Trithemius, a learned German abbot, 
writing of the wars of the Swabian League, included 
the following description of the Swiss’: 


“Whether the Confederates have had a just or an unjust 
cause for war is not for me to decide, since I do not 
hold the place of a judge. But this I say, this I write 
and hand on in writing to the future world, which 
everybody knows to-day who has lived with us in Ger- 
many, and which all say, who know the manner of the 
Swiss, that they are a people proud by nature, enemies 
of princes, riotous, and for a long time have been con- 
trary and disobedient to their overlords; filled with 
contempt for others and full of assumption for them- 
selves ; deceitful in war and lovers of treason ; in peace 
never steadfast ; nor do they inquire about the justice 


1 Annalium Hirsaugiensium, ii., 572 (Edit. 1690) ; Oechsli, Quel 


lenbuch, 1., 282. 
2 


18 Huldreich Zwingli 


of what is due from them by law, especially when it 
affects the independence which they have the effrontery 
to assume. I say nevertneless that they are not only bold 
in war but also shrewd, and they are mutually helpful in 
time of need, and no one leaves another in danger, nor 
do the rich despise the poor.” 


In 1504, Jacob Wimpheling, one of the literary 
lights of the period, presented to the Elector of 
Mainz a remarkable address in the form of a prayer 
for the conversion of the Swiss. He takes advant- 
age of his position before the Throne to bring ina 
scathing indictment of that people. Among other 
things he says: 


“In the capture of prisoners there is more humanity 
to be found among Turks and Bohemians than among 
the Swiss.” 

“Their laws and ordinances when summed up are 
three: We will not ; we will; you must.” 

“ Pope Pius II. in agreement with us, complains greatly 
of this. He says that they are a proud people by 
nature who will not act according to justice, unless this 
justice 1s serviceable to them, and they hold nothing for 
right except when it agrees with their fantastic ideas. 
And how can they truly understand right and justice, 
when their lives are spent, not in the study of the philo- 
sophers nor of the laws of the Emperor, but in arms 
and warfare ?’’? 


The German Humanist, Pirckheimer, in his con- 
temporary history of a war in which the Swiss had 
been engaged, characterises the military prowess of 

1Oechsli, Quellenbuch, i., 282. 


An Historical Survey 19 


that people.’ After a description of the Burgundian 
campaign he continues as follows: 


“In the meanwhile the Swiss rested from the alarms 
of war, for no power was so great after the suppression 
of the Burgundians that it would have dared to challenge 
them. They permitted forces to be sent now to Maxi- 
milian, now to the French, not only because they wished 
to exercise their youth in warlike discipline, but also 
because they feared, or rather, hated both, and the suc- 
cess of either party roused their anger. In truth, all 
Germans have received from the Swiss the weapons 
and the military tactics which they now use, for they 
threw away the shield which they had formerly been 
accustomed to use, like all other nations, They learned 
through experience that the shield could not in any 
way withstand the power of the phalanx and of the 
lance. Therefore, up to my time, all those who carried 
spears, halberds, and swords, were called Swiss, even if 
they were born in the middle of Germany, until finally, 
on account of hatred of the Swiss, the name ‘ Lands- 
knecht,’ that is, soldiers from the home country, came 
up and began to be famous.” 


Macchiavelli? makes frequent references to the 
military reputation of the Swiss and to the resulting 
political independence. He is more or less indiffer- 
ent to the moral effects of these facts. 


“From experience one observes armed republics mak- 
ing the greatest progress, but mercenary armies bring on 


1 Pirckheimer, Hist. belli Suitensis, p. 11; Oechsli, Quellenbuch, 
Tey 2052 
2 The Prince, chap. xii. 


20 Huldreich Zwingli 


nothing but evil ; and it is more difficult for a republic 
to fall into the power of one of its citizens, when it is 
armed with its own weapons than when it is armed with 
foreign weapons. Rome and Sparta remained many 
centuries armed and free. The Swiss are the most thor- 
oughly armed and the freest of nations.” 


He also speaks of the Swiss as “‘ the teachers of the 
modern art of war,’’ whose formations and tactics 
““ every nation has imitated.”’ 

Guicciardini, in his Hzstory of Italy,’ is obliged to 
touch upon its relations with Switzerland. He gives 
a calm review of the institutions of the country, but 
the effects of the mercenary service on moral charac- 
ter are plainly discernible. 


“ The Swiss are of the same kind as those who are called 
Helvetians by the ancients, and a race which dwells in 
mountains higher than the Jura. . . . They are 
divided into thirteen peoples (they call them cantons), 
each one of which rules itself with its own magistrates, 
laws, and ordinances, They order every year or oftener, as 
occasion arises, a discussion of their common affairs, as- 
sembling at this or that place, as the delegates of the 
cantons decide. They call these assemblies, according 
to German usage, Federal Diets, at which they decide 
upon war, peace, or treaties, or consider the requests of 
those who demand soldiers or volunteers, and all other 
things which concern their common interests. When 
the cantons grant mercenaries by law, they themselves 
choose a captain to whom the army, with the flag, is en- 
trusted in the name of the State. This terrible and 


‘Guicciardini, La Historia d’/talia, Book X., cap. iii., anno 1511, 


An Historical Survey 21 


unlearned people have made a great name for unity and 
skill in arms, with which, by their natural bravery and 
the discipline of their tactics, they have not only power- 
fully defended their own country, but also outside of 
their native land they have exercised the arts of war 
with the greatest reputation. But this would have been 
immeasurably greater if they had used it for their own 
authority, not for pay and the extension of the dominion 
of others, or if they had had before their eyes nobler 
aims than the lust for money. From love of this they 
lost the opportunity to make all Italy fruitful, for, since 
they came from home only as hired soldiers, they have 
carried away for their State no fruits of their victories. 
At home the important people are not ashamed 
to take presents and pensions from foreign princes, as 
inducements to take their side and favour them in the 
councils, As by this means they have mixed their private 
interests with public affairs, and have become purchasable 
and bribe-takers, so disunion has crept in among them. 
After the practice had once begun that those things 
which had been agreed to by the majority of the cantons 
at the Diet, were not followed by all the States, they 
finally came a few years ago into open war with each 
other, from which followed the greatest injury to the 
reputation which they had everywhere enjoyed.” 


The comments of these more or less unsympa- 
thetic foreigners are confirmed by the observations 
of native writers, like the Humanist, Bonifacius 
Amerbach of Basel: ‘‘ If there ever was a time, 
the word of the poet is now true, ‘ this is, indeed, the 
age of gold,’ ”’ 

1Tetter to Zasius, 1520. Burckhardt, B. Amerbach und die 
Reformation, p. 138. 


22 Huldreich Zwingli 


Sumptuary Laws 


As we have noted in other connections, magis- 
trates and authorities were to some extent aware 
of the evils of the time and endeavoured to stop 
the progress of corruption. It would be unfair to 
measure their efforts by standards of the nineteenth 
century, but we can see that the lawmakers only 
trimmed the twigs of the tree so long as they failed 
to prohibit foreign pensions. They tried to stop 
the descent of moral character by laws against lux- 
ury and new fashions. Their intentions were excel- 
lent, but their efforts apparently unavailing. It is 
a wide-spread belief that ‘‘ blue laws’’ were an in- 
vention of the Puritans, but in reality they began 
in antiquity and continued through the Middle Ages 
into modern times. Sumptuary ordinances were 
repeatedly enacted in the cities of Switzerland be- 
fore the Reformation, and a few may be cited here 
to show how they attempted to regulate private 
conduct in those days. 

In Basel, in 1441-42, it was forbidden to play dice 
in the guilds, or club-houses. Betting must on no 
account exceed four or five pence. After the nine 
o'clock bell the house master and servants should 
stop all playing and send the guests home, in order 
that profane swearing and cursing might be pre- 
vented. Wedding feasts, which often took place at 
the guild-house, were limited to. one day and to a 
fixed expenditure. 

Likewise at Zurich, in the ordinances of 1488, we 
read that ‘‘ No citizen shall in future extend his 


An Historical Survey 23 


wedding feast over more than one day.”’ If heisa 
member of an aristocratic guild, and consequently 
able to bear the expense, he may invite the ladies 
of the guild, otherwise no one except the relatives 
may come. It seems to have been the custom to 
give presents to the guests. A maximum of five 
shillings is fixed for this for each person, while bride 
and groom receive no gifts whatever. Extravagance 
at christenings is to be stopped by fixing the limit 
of gifts, and other festivals in like manner. 

The effect of the influx of foreign money and 
foreign fashions seems to have been felt in 1488. 
The Zurich ordinance on the subject reads as follows: 


“In view of the marked disorder which has begun in 
our city among the common people on account of the 
costly clothing which their wives and daughters wear, 
and in order to prevent this, we have ordained that here- 
after no woman or girl shall in any wise wear silver- or 
gold-plated pins, rings, or buckles, nor any silk garment 
or trimming on coats, shoes, neckwear, etc., except the 
women of the guilds of the Raden and Schnecken. 
Further, no woman of the community shall have a 
mounted girdle, except those whose husbands possess 
1000. gulden or over, and they may have one such girdle 
and no more to the value of about 12 gulden. These 
persons may also have silk borders and trimmings on 
their bodices with modesty, but without hooks and 
buckles, as above said. If anyone acts contrary to this, 
such forbidden girdles shall be confiscated to the city, 
and whoever already has such girdles, whether few or 
many, shall sell the same, or allow their husbands to sell 
them for his business and necessities, As to buckles, 


24 Huldreich Zwingli | 


rings, and silk, everyone who disobeys this ordinance 
shall pay two marks of silver for each offence.” * 


Such were the paternal efforts of the lawmakers 
of the end of that century. Their enactments are 
amusing to read and were ineffectual at the time, 
but they show the direction of popular tendencies. 
This ordinance of Zurich was, indeed, the work of 
a dictator, Hans Waldman, who was afterwards de- 
posed and executed, but it illustrates none the less 
the reform methods of the age. It was not the scat- 
tered preachers and chroniclers alone who uttered 
their Jeremiads on the state of society, but councils 
and legislatures attempted in their clumsy fashion to 
stem the drift toward extravagance and immorality. 

Even as late as 1519 dancing was forbidden by 
order of the council. ‘* Let it be announced in the 
pulpits of the city and written notice sent into the 
country that since dancing has been forbidden, it is 
also forbidden to musicians or anyone else to pro- 
vide dances in courts or other places, whether it be 
at public weddings or church festivals.’’ A pro- 
hibition of 1500 reads: “* In order that God the 
Lord may protect the harvests which are in the 
field, and may give us good weather, let no person 
dance. 3” 

Morals of the Clergy 


The condition of the clergy just previous to the 
Reformation is a subject which eludes the investiga- 
' Reprinted in Oechsli, i., 209. See Vincent, ‘‘ European Blue 


Laws,” Report Am. Hist. Assoc., 1897, pp. 357-3723 ¢f. p- 361 sgq. 
* Egli, Akten., No, 82, 


An Historical Survey 25 


tor who desires the exact truth in statistical form. 
Most of our information on this point comes from 
writers who eventually joined the reform move- 
ment, and, writing in the heat of the events, there 
may have been a tendency to paint in darker colours 
than necessary. We may see, however, that the 
priest was a child of his generation. Conduct which 
would not be tolerated at the present time was re- 
garded with indifference at the close of the fifteenth 
century. Yet even then there was complaint of 
ignorance and immorality among the clergy, and we 
are compelled to admit that there were many in- 
dividual cases of immoral practices, if we do not go 
so far as to indict the Church as a whole. 

Authentic instances are on record of monks given 
over to debauchery. The waste of monastic prop- 
erty was a common complaint, and the city of Zurich 
had assumed the control or supervision of all endow- 
ments of this kind within its territory. But one 
cannot assume that the clergy as a whole were lost 
to all sense of moral decency, nor do we need such 
facts to account for the Reformation. 

The attention of good men was early called to 
abuses which needed reform. For instance, Chris- 
topher, Bishop of Basel, in 1503 addressed the synod 
of his diocese on the subject of the immorality of 
the clergy, and published a body of regulations 
which were to be enforced with new vigour. His 
language is decidedly unequivocal. 


“Since we have learned with the greatest chagrin that 
the greater part of the priests of our city and diocese 


26 Huldreich Zwingli 


when they are called to conduct the funeral services of 
nobles and other persons, give themselves up to gaming 
and drunkenness, so that many of them at times sit the 
whole night at play; others exhaust themselves with 
swilling and drunkenness and sleep the whole night 
through on the benches, and by other extraordinary 
excesses bring scandal, disgrace, and derision upon the 
clerical profession: Therefore, we command that all 
clergymen who are so invited, and all others, shall not give 
themselves up to dicing and card-playing, nor to other 
irregular and disgraceful actions at any time whatever, 
and especially in taverns and rooms belonging to the 
laity, etc, 


A tendency to imitate the world in clothing led 
to ordinances which forbade the wearing of coloured 
silks, flowing sleeves, slashed mantles, or jewelry ; 
nor should they wear swords, knives, or other weap- 
ons, unless travelling. The public worship should 
be conducted with fitting decorum. 


“The clergy shall see to it that during the worship in 
the church they do not walk up and down with laymen 
or other clergymen, as we have known it often to happen 
in certain collegiate churches of our bishopric, nor shall 
they go out upon the market in choir dress during wor- 
ship to buy eggs, cheese, or anything else.” 


Regarding superstitious practices, Bishop Christo- 
pher speaks with words which are as true for all time 
as for his day: 


“Since experience teaches that certain pilgrimages 
and the frequent coming together of the people before 


An Historical Survey 247 


certain pictures, or even at profane places hidden in 
mountains and woods, is not so much in consequence of 
true appearances as of false dreams, or of the imagina- 
tion of a sick phantasy, and the blinding of the senses, 
and that, in accordance with their idle and ignorant be- 
ginning, a vain and ridiculous result has come from 
them: Therefore we forbid that in future the simple 
folk shall be deceived through their credulity, or be de- 
ceived by invented or superstitious miracle stories, etc.” 


Other sound admonitions are included in this 
pastoral letter, but only those which acknowledge 
the presence of gross evils, or immoral tendencies, 
are here quoted.’ Bishop Hugo of Constance, in a 
similar pastoral letter of the year 1517, is grieved 
to find that many of the clergy are not only given to 
drinking and gambling, but many are openly living 
with concubines. He orders them to remove all 
such suspected women from their houses and to set 
a better example to the laity.’ 

A curious commentary on popular beliefs is the 
report of the Governor of Baden to the Federal Diet 
of 1494. He states ina most matter-of-fact way that 
he has burnt a witch, who left a husband and some 
property. He desires instructions as to the disposal 
of these goods. The Diet, as if it were a mere 
matter of routine, directs him to hold her property 
for the Confederation and give the man what be- 
longs to him. 

1 Oechsli, ii., 473. 

2Simler, Sammlung alter und neuer Urkunden zur Beleuchtung 


der Kirchen-Geschichte, Bd. i., 779, Zurich, 1759. 
8 Eidg. Abschiede, ili., 1, 451. 


28 Huldreich Zwinghi 


Bullinger, immediate successor of Zwingli, and the 
historian of the Swiss Reformation, wrote as follows 
concerning the clergy previous to the year I519: 


“ At one time during these years when all the deacons 
of the Confederation were assembled together there were 
found not over three who were well read in the Bible. 
The others acknowledged that none of them had read 
even the New Testament, whereby we may understand 
how it was with the other clergy, with whom the case 
was still worse. For, among the clergy there was almost 
no studying, but their exercise was in gaming, in feed- 
ing, and in the practice of all luxuries. The more ear- 
nest were accused of hypocrisy. Those who studied 
somewhat devoted themselves to scholastic theology and 
canon law. The greater part preached out of sermon 
books, learning by heart sermons written by monks 
and printed, repeating them to the people without 
judgment. : 

“In the churches the mass had become a market and 
a place for bargaining, in fact, all sacraments and all 
things which one holds holy became venal and corrupt. 
The singing in parishes and monasteries was for the 
most part superstitious, and the monasteries had fallen 
into all sorts of scandals and idolatries, where no one of 
them observed so much as the first of its own rules, not 
to speak of God’s Word. Every day new altars, endow- 
ments, and endless numbers of idolatrous pilgrimages 
were established, to the great pleasure of the clergy, 
who threw into their bottomless sack all that the common 
man as well as the noble possessed. Whereupon there 
was great complaint on all sides.” * 


1 Bullinger, Reformationsgeschichte, i., 3. 


An Historical Survey 29 


Bullinger’s description of the condition of the laity 
is so well confirmed by contemporary authorities 
previously quoted that one is obliged to give credit 
to this account of the state of the Church. 

Positions in the Church were regarded as property, 
and very naturally, too, since the appointee was 
obliged to buy the right of preferment. Pastorates 
and canonries could be obtained from the papal 
court on the payment of a specified portion of the 
revenues of the place. Positions were rated ac- 
cording to a regular tariff, and matters went so far 
that candidates bought the right to succeed to a 
charge before it was vacant, and these rights became 
an object of speculation in the hands of dealers. 
Such persons were called courtesans, because they 
lived by favours received from the court of Rome. 
The class included both foreigners sent thither to 
occupy livings and native Swiss who were recipients 
of papal appointments. 

An unconscious revelation of the condition of 
affairs is found in the defence of one of these 
courtesans against the charges of the Federal Diet. 
Heinrich Géldli, a Swiss citizen, was a member of 
the papal guard, and was accused of dishonesty in 
his dealings in livings. He refutes the charge by 
showing that he had a legal title in every one of his 
transactions. A few of his own statements will show 
how these things were regarded. 


“Tt is true I have in time past taken up livings and 
have requested them of the Pope. I serve the Pope for 
no other cause, nor have I any other reward or wage 


30 Huldreich Zwingli 


from the Pope, neither I nor others of his Holiness’ serv- 
ants, except such livings as happen to fall vacant in 
the Pope’s month, which his Holiness presents to us, 
every one in his own country. . . . I hope that al- 
though I have made contracts or agreements regarding 
livings which I have lawfully received from his Holiness 
the Pope for my services over against an evil day, I 
have had the power and right to do so, so that I may act 
as I please with mine own and may gain mine own 
benefit and advantage.” 


No one ought to charge him with fraudulent 
dealing, for 


“T have never in my life surrendered anything from 
which I have had profit without I have given written 
evidence and laid myself under written obligation, so 
that in case it should be disputed by anybody, and I 
failed to protect him with my title and at my own ex- 
pense, in the holding of the living, I should be in duty 
bound to pay back all costs and damages, as well as all 
that I have received from him.” 

“In regard to the third article, that I have sold livings 
in the same way that horses are sold at Zurzach, I have 
never in all my life sold a living or bought it in this way, 
for that is simony, and whoever buys and sells livings 
ought to be deprived of them— but I have, when I have 
delivered over a‘living, by permission of his Holiness, 
demanded and taken the costs to which I have been put, 
and also have caused a yearly pension to be allowed me 
out of the living, a thing which is permitted me by the 
Pope, and concerning which I have my-bulls, letters, and 
seals, for this is a common custom among the clergy.” 


In reply to the threat of the Diet that he should 


An Historical Survey ar 


be forbidden to hold any more livings in Switzer- 
land, Géldli hopes that his legal rights will be re- 
spected, that certain appointments will be left for 
him to live on, and mentions specifically several re- 
servations which have recently cost him large sums, 
and for which he expects damages and remuneration. 


“Furthermore, the Pope has given me the reservation 
of the provostship of Zurzach, so that when the present 
provost, Peter Attenhofer, shall die, this provostship 
shall fall tome. I have also for this the letter and seal, 
and have paid the annates, as the first fruits are called, 
to the camera apostolica.”* 


Géldli declared later that the purchase of this ex- 
pectation had cost him 350 ducats. 

This appeal for justice gives unconsciously the 
state of opinion and practice in the appointment of 
the clergy. The authorities were aroused by the 
extent of the transactions of one man, but public 
sentiment does not seem to have been greatly 
offended in general at the purchase of preferment 
in the Church. Zwingli himself paid over a hundred 
gulden to this Géldli before he would let him have 
the living at Glarus, which Géldli claimed in virtue 
of his papal letter of investiture. 


Switzerland and the Papacy 


The relations of the Church in Switzerland to the 
papacy deserve special attention, for the conditions 
differed much from the state of things in Germany. 
For a long time the popes had held the Swiss in 


1 Qechsli, Quellenbuch, ii., 504. 


32 Huldreich Zwingli 


high esteem. This was due in general to the doc- 
trinal faithfulness of the mountaineers, and in par- 
ticular to the devotion with which the Swiss had 
recently supported the political and military policy 
of the papacy. When Julius II. entered into the 
contest with the other Powers for the possession of 
Northern Italy he found need for mercenary troops, 
and applied to the Swiss for aid. Through the per- 
suasions of an energetic Swiss Bishop, Matthias 
Schinner of Sitten, the confederates came to the 
help of the Pope with a contingent of men. They 
were under the impression that it was to be a holy 
war for the preservation of the Church. When 
they were undeceived in regard to the objects of 
the campaign the Swiss were with difficulty per- 
suaded to go into the war, but finally marched into 
Italy in 1510 and 1512 and performed wonders of 
valour. The Pope not only paid for these services, 
but, as a token of his pleasure, presented the con- 
federates with a golden sword and a richly em- 
broidered ducal cap, as symbols of their military 
and political sovereignty, and granted them the title 
of ‘‘ Protectors of the Freedom of the Church.”’ 
The Swiss came out of these wars with eyes 
opened to the worldly ambitions of the popes, and 
their successes were followed by all that train of 
evils described above under the subject of mercenary 
service. They gave less heed to the requests of the 
papacy, and when Leo X. in 1518 asked for twelve 
thousand men for a crusade against the Turks, the 
confederates granted only ten thousand, and said if 
more were needed they would send back two 


An Historical Survey 33 


thousand priests to fill up the quota. Although, in 
fact, these troops were not sent out, as no crusade 
took place, the reply shows the independent attitude 
of the Swiss. 

In ecclesiastical government Switzerland enjoyed 
an unusual measure of freedom. The people were 
accustomed to manage their own affairs and resented 
interference from the clergy in secular matters. 
Ever since the fourteenth century they had been 
gradually limiting the field of ecclesiastical jurisdic- 
tion, and the clergy were for the most part subject 
to the ordinary tribunals. This freedom was not 
reached without protest, and the struggle was still 
going on. Disputes with the Church authorities oc- 
curred from time to time, particularly in Zurich and 
Bern. Inthe latter State the government was in fre- 
quent strife with its bishop, and usually got the bet- 
terofhim. Atthe same time this independence was 
accompanied with strong respect for the doctrinal 
authority of the Church and much religious fervour, 
as may be seen in the many new foundations in 
honour of the saints, and the abundant pilgrimages. 
This stands out in curious relief with the loose moral 
conduct complained of at the end of the century, 
but the two things are not incompatible. 

In the foregoing circumstances we may see reasons 
why Switzerland had never felt the heavy hand of 
the Inquisition and why the popes were not severe 
with that people at the beginning of the reform 
movement. The papacy was very desirous of keep- 
ing on good terms with the Swiss because they were 


valuable military and political allies. 
3 


34 Huldreich Zwingli 
Education 


In depicting the darker side of Swiss society one 
should not leave the impression that the tendencies 
of the time were all evil. Reformation was, indeed, 
imperatively demanded in political and social life, 
but there were at the same time evidences of intel- 
lectual growth which may not be overlooked. 

Educational advantages in Switzerland were not 
as great as in the surrounding countries, but the 
spirit of the new learning had already taken root. 
In former times men who were ambitious to pursue 
wider studies were obliged to go abroad to Paris, 
Leipzig, Vienna, and other foreign universities, and 
the Federal Government lightened this task by ob- 
taining advantageous treaty rights for students. In 
1460 the University of Basel was opened, founded 
by the munificence of the learned Pope Pius II., 
and the Rhine city soon became a centre of en- 
lightenment for an area much larger than Switzer- 
land. This did not prevent scholars from going 
abroad, but at the same time representative men 
from all parts of the Confederation were to be found 
on the list of Basel students, and they met here 
distinguished lecturers of both native and foreign 
origin. 

Among the Swiss who rose to prominence in the 
world of scholarship may be mentioned Thomas 
Wittenbach, who began to teach at Basel, in 
1505, as professor of philology and theology. He 
exerted a great influence upon Zwingli. Heinrich 
Loriti of Glarus, known to European scholars as 


An Historical Survey 35 


** Glareanus,’’ was one of the greatest lights in 
humanistic studies. After 1513 the great Erasmus 
made his home in Basel, not for the purpose of teach- 
ing, but in order to supervise the printing of his 
works. Hebecame the centre of a brilliant company 
of men devoted to the new learning and to the criti- 
cism of existing religious institutions. Few of these 
scholars went over to the reform movement when it 
came to an absolute break from the Mother Church, 
but they were tireless in exhibiting the ignorance 
and abuses found in it. 

Nor were their voices confined to a small circle of 
hearers, for Basel had become one of the great pub- 
lishing centres of Europe. Printing made its ap- 
pearance here not long after its discovery, and was 
so far advanced in 1471 that a strike of typesetters 
occurred.’ At the beginning of the sixteenth cen- 
tury the press of Froben was issuing editions of the 
classics and of the works of the Humanists which 
have themselves become classic in the history of 
typography. Printing was introduced into various 
Swiss towns in the last quarter of the fourteenth 
century, but nowhere attained the celebrity of Basel. 
In Zurich the press could not have been very im- 
portant, since the oldest known printing dates from 
the year 1504. The first substantial publication 
began under Froschauer in 1521, with translations 
of Erasmus into the vernacular, and with the issue 
of the writings of Zwingli. This form of the dif- 
fusion of knowledge was, however, appreciated by 


1“«Court Records of Basel,” published in Basler Taschenbuch, 
1863, p. 250, and Oechsli, Quellenbuch, ii., 417. 


36 | Huldreich Zwingli 


the educated classes of Switzerland, and as wide use 
of it was made as the processes of the time would 
allow. 

High schools preparatory to the University were 
found in a few places previous to the Reformation. 
At Bern the Humanist who was known as “*‘ Johan- 
nes 4 Lapide,’’ returning from a career of teaching 
in Basel and Paris, opened a school for study of the 
humanities in the light of the new learning. In 
this same school taught also Heinrich W6lflin, or 
‘* Lupulus,’’ an enthusiastic student of classical 
antiquity, who had travelled in Italy and Greece, 
and who was himself a poet of no mean ability. 
Oswald Myconius at Basel was a teacher of this 
enlightened order who later transferred his activity 
to Zurich. 

Of primary education not much can be said. 
Schools were sometimes conducted by the religious 
houses and cathedral foundations, but a large part 
of elementary teaching was left to individual enter- 
prise. The lack of text-books made instruction very 
difficult, but in this respect all countries were alike. 
Although municipal authorities exercised a super- 
vision over education, public schools had not come 
into existence. Since teachers depended on their fees 
for their pay, the rural districts and the smaller towns 
naturally suffered, and illiteracy was widely preval- 
ent. That private teachers took pupils of all ages 
for pay may be seen from a schoolmaster’s sign 
which was painted by Holbein in 1516, and which 
hangs to-day in the Museum of Basel. Freely 
translated, it reads: 


*NOIS TOOHOS 








915 f-apguaquomas aim uaqunuery nay (pon nrIAW. Qua 
IBUY Iunl 110 gH Noy wIyUNE wa wo jays Gymmag wu 
ADUl BG Mg Lg BILQIG Uy IM weMarwUNt Cun waMUOy WayBS 
J6 spLMuTElL INO AGng yams aM Gitj 33 WILIN HO] THe WH Non 
MUsEG qun wavs Ls wagHan qua juu wn (pl TEM WG Am 
~FpggpOun os avy wan gpE gu sa aM QUE ayy QnA aque Ba 
| gpndpy iy waa] soy uu won Guu as tang og JquTta wa 1ayj13630, 
Teg qua Gyany Gun ug way MaqVyyHNg Ww jw Aon UQ 1a, wy 
“ipmg oc wy wy HUN, HQ JQUAG LyAY LU! wg ya 
LIL] AUN waqiatA] Gang way IM gH UQ ay IQHLU LAT 

















A + meee ee 


£: 


~~ 














An Historical Survey 37 


“If there is anyone here who desires to learn to write 
and read German in the shortest possible time that any- 
body can conceive of, so that anyone who does not know 
even a letter beforehand can soon understand, so that 
he can learn to write down and read his accounts for 
himself, and whoever is so stupid that he cannot learn, 
I will teach for nothing and take no reward, whoever 
they may be, citizen or workingman, women or misses : 
—whoever desires this, come in here and he will be 
taught for a reasonable price, the boys and girls by the 
quarter according to the usual custom.” 


The pictures which accompany this invitation 
show a schoolroom in which the master and his wife 
are teaching small children, with the birch rod ever 
in hand. On the other side of the sign adults are 
apparently learning German “‘ in the shortest pos- 
sible time.’’ 

A consideration of this period leads to the con- 
clusion that, while brilliant lights were appearing in 
the literary world, and a great interest was awaken- 
ing in the better classes for classical learning and 
the Scriptures, the facilities for educating the people 
were very inadequate. There was room for the im- 
provements which were introduced by the Swiss 
Reformers. Yet the educational movement began 
before the religious revival and was a cause of the 
Reformation rather than a result. Myconius, the 
schoolmaster, and Utinger, the studious canon of 
the Great Minster, were influential Humanists in 
Zurich, and helped to bring about the call of Zwingli 
to that city. 

The fine arts flourished in Switzerland, though 


38 Huldreich Zwingli 


not to the same degree as in Italy or France. The 
Renaissance produced several notable artists, of 
whom Holbein is the greatest. It was the decorat- 
ive arts, however, which attracted the most atten- 
tion, for these served the luxury which followed 
new-gained wealth. From this period date many 
fine specimens of stained glass, carved furniture, 
ornamental pottery, and tile-work which do honour 
to the makers and their patrons. Both public and 
private buildings show evidences of taste in decora- 
tion as well as desire for display. 


The Cities 


A study of the reform movement in Switzerland 
shows that the chief centres of agitation were the 
cities. Furthermore, the governments of the cities 
had a deciding voice in the acceptance of changes 
in the organisation of the Church, and even in 
changes in doctrine. Hence a word is in place as 
to the nature of this civic life and the character of 
the authorities which had such important questions 
to decide. 

At the beginning of the sixteenth century Switzer- 
land contained numerous flourishing towns, but for 
size and activity they must be measured by the 
standards of that age. From our point of view city 
life was contained in very small space. This is due 
not only to the fact that the population was smaller, 
but also because of the fortification which was im- 
perative in the Middle Ages. The drawings and 
engravings of the period represent the towns 


An Historical Survey 39 


surrounded with walls and moats. These were still 
necessary according to the existing methods of 
warfare, for the larger systems of defence of our day 
had not yet begun, and any town might consider 
itself liable to attack at sometime. Even if certain 
places were no longer considered strategic points of 
importance, nevertheless, their ramparts remained 
to form a kind of boundary of municipal life. In 
many of them the walls are standing in part or in 
whole to-day. At Lucerne one side of the city is 
still flanked by picturesque towers and battlements, 
and in many other cities ponderous gateways and 
fragments of fortifications deep in the interior of the 
town show the lines of its ancient defence and the 
former limits of its corporate existence. 

These various necessities, as well as the popular 
taste of that time, obliged people to live in what 
we should now consider contracted quarters. The 
streets were narrow and winding. The houses 
were often large, but their rooms were small and 
low. The better classes enjoyed a high degree of 
domestic decoration, but the citizens as a whole ap- 
peared to be satisfied with a small measure of light 
and air. The sanitary condition of houses and 
streets still lacked enlightened attention, although 
cities were generally careful to provide good water 
which the people might get for themselves from the 
public fountains. Public works were to a consider- 
able degree bounded by the necessity of maintaining 
the fortifications, even if there had been a demand 
for greater improvements. Hence the civic life was 
circumscribed, and one is sometimes tempted to say 


40 Huldreich Zwingli 


that the intellectual horizon of the population did 
not extend much beyond the four walls of their city. 

This, however, would be an unfair estimate, and 
a confusion of intelligence with civic pride. These 
stone-bound towns manifested the highest degree 
of local patriotism, and were deeply intent on build- 
ing up their own material welfare. If this appears 
at times to be selfish, it is only a part of that in- 
dividualism which we have already seen in the inde- 
pendence of the States of Switzerland. The cities 
were the centres of these States and their policies. 

Bern, Basel, and eventually Geneva became cen- 
tres of the reform movement, but in connection 
with Zwingli the city of Zurich is the more import- 
ant to consider. The characteristics of the popula- 
tion, their occupations, and their governments were 
different in each of these places and all had their 
influence on the change, but Zurich gave the deter- 
mining impulses at the start. 


Zurich 


The situation of Zurich was favourable to the 
development of new ideas. Seated at the head of 
a lake which was on one of the international routes 
of travel, it had been, all through the Middle Ages, 
a point which came in contact with the world at 
large. Its central location in Switzerland brought 
it early into the growing Confederation, and from 
the first it was an influential power in its councils. 
It came to be a frequent meeting-place of the Fed- 
eral Diet, and as it was also an agreeable city to live 


An Historical Survey AI 


in, it became the habitual residence of many ambas- 
sadors of foreign Powers. They located there in 
order to be accessible to the authorities of Zurich 
and to be within easy reach of the Confederation as 
a whole. 

This imparted to the life in Zurich a certain viva- 
city which was not found in many other places. The 
presence of the foreign legations with their retinues 
of servants gave a stimulus to the trade of the city 
and to the life of its inhabitants. The taverns and 
public houses were very numerous. The guild- 
houses were fine specimens of the architecture of 
that period, as one may still see in a measure at the 
present day. There was contact with the outer 
world, and, consequently, a breadth of ideas which 
would have been found to so high a degree in no 
other Swiss town, unless it were Basel: From these 
facts we may explain two important phenomena 
in the history of Switzerland. We may see why 
Zurich became the pioneer in religious innovation 
and in political neutrality toward foreign Powers. 

Since Zwingli brought about reform in the Church 
by means of the civil authorities, the form of govern- 
ment in Zurich should be briefly recapitulated. The 
city was a municipal republic, but, although all citi- 
zens were given theoretically a voice in its manage- 
ment, it was by no means a democracy, like the rural 
cantons. There were two general classes of people: 
noble and non-noble; of which the latter were 
naturally the more numerous. All male citizens 
were, however, classified into guilds according to 
their occupations. The aristocracy, including both 


42 Huldreich Zwingli 


nobility and rich men of affairs, had a special guild 
of their own, and the trades were grouped in twelve 
others. 

The government of the city was vested in a 
burgomaster and two councils —the Great and the 
Small. The smaller council contained fifty mem- 
bers, but only one half of them served at a time. 
In fact there were two burgomasters elected every 
year, each serving six months at a time, but the 
vacating burgomaster sat in the councils till the 
close of the year. The members of the Small Coun- 
cil were all delegates from the guilds except six 
councilmen at large and the two burgomasters who 
acted ex officio. This may be called the ordinary 
working administrative council of the city, the 
twenty-five who acted at any one time not being an 
excessive number for executive business.’ 

The Great Council was the real legislature of 
Zurich, since all matters of larger importance were 
left to its decision. The constitution of this body 
had been fixed in the revolution of 1489 and re- 
mained the same, not only through Zwingli’s time, 
but down to the year 1798. It was also called the 
Council of Two Hundred, but the exact number was 


1 The records of Zurich contain the names of the members of this 
council from the twelfth century onward. So if desired one might 
find exactly what men were in office in Zwingli’s time, and who 
helped to bring in the Reformation. In the library of the Johns 
Hopkins University is a large folio MS. written about the year 1578, 
and entitled ‘‘ Vom altesten Regiment der Stadt Zurich, so viel man 
wissen mag.” ‘This is a copy of the official register and gives, along 
with many historical documents, the names of mayors and council- 
men ‘‘as far back as anyone knows.” 


An Historical Survey 43 


212. It contained the two parts of the Small Coun- 
cil, eighteen delegates from the ‘‘ Constaffel,’’ or 
guild of the aristocracy, and twelve from each of 
the twelve other guilds. The two burgomasters 
made up the number. 

This Council was the highest source of authority 
in the State, and was empowered to make laws or 
even change the constitution without consulting the 
people. As we have seen, there was no general 
election of members, but rather a representation of 
groups, which appears at first sight to be either 
aristocratic or exclusive. But it should be remem- 
bered that the great majority of the men of Zurich 
were small tradesmen or artisans, and that all of 
them were included in one or another of the guilds. 
The leadership in these societies may have fallen 
at times into the hands of a few men, but, on the 
whole, this legislature was a fairly representative 
body. Zurich was a small city, and a council of 
two hundred members chosen out of a body of 
voters probably not much exceeding one thousand 
would give a fair chance for an expression of the 
popular will. 

These facts are important to observe when changes 
in the forms of worship take place in Zurich. It 
was the Great Council which authorised the various 
reforms. When Zwingli held his famous disputa- 
tion in 1523, it was in the City Hall and in the 
presence of the Two Hundred, and they, having 
been convinced that he was right, passed ordinances 
to put the new ideas into effect. 

The situation is even better understood when one 


A4 Huldreich Zwingli 


examines into the functions of the Council in detail. 
Innumerable questions came before it, not only 
respecting the government of the city, but also in 
connection with feudal possessions in the canton. 
These latter involved not only the secular adminis- 
tration, but in nineteen country parishes the right 
to appoint the parish priest." The Council, there- 
fore, was accustomed to handle ecclesiastical matters 
in a manner more intimate than merely supervisory. 

For many years the government had been requir- 
ing strict accounts from the monasteries and con- 
vents of the whole territory, and in many cases had 
appointed managers to oversee their properties. 
The Council was also accustomed to regulate the 
private conduct of ministers by punishing evil-doers 
among them, and occasionally went so far as to 
order a priest to perform religious functions which 
he had denied. Zurich was particularly set on re- 
stricting the jurisdiction of the clergy, and repeated 
cases just in this period show that the government 
did not hesitate to challenge the so-called immunities 
of the Church.’ 

These facts account for the method pursued by 
Zwingli, and make the reform movement quite 
different from that of Luther in one respect. The 
latter also depended on the civil authorities, but he 
appealed to the princes of Germany, who were little 


1Wunderli, Waldman, p. 157; Appendix, ‘‘ View of Zurich in 1520.” 

2“ Egli, Ziircherische Kirchenpolitik von Waldman bis Zwingli,” 
Fahrb. fiir Schweizergeschichte, Ba. xxi.; Remley, ‘‘ The Relation 
of State and Church in Ziirich, 1519-1523,” Leipzig Dissertation, 
1895. 


An Historical Survey 45 


monarchs in their several provinces. Here it was 
the people or their representatives who authorised 
the Reformation. As much might be said of the 
cities, or of the rural cantons which remained stead- 
fast in the Roman faith —in all cases the people 
had much to say in the decision. 

At this time Zurich contained between 5000 and 
7000 inhabitants within its walls, and controlled 
thirty-five dependent districts outside. Out of the 
combined population the State could muster about 
10,000 men for war. In 1470 there were about 950 
households on the tax list of the city proper,’ and 
about 52,000 inhabitants in the whole canton. 
These figures are large only in comparison with 
other States of Switzerland. Contemporaries con- 
sidered Zurich the most important of them all. 

Within the city a large amount of property was in 


‘the hands of ecclesiastics. Besides the cathedral 


chapter of thirty-four canons there were three parish 
churches and some twelve chapels. The Benedictine 
convent, Fraumiinster Abbey, had been a retreat for 
decayed gentlewomen, but was no longer rich nor 
influential. There were also three convents of 
mendicant orders and three monasteries for the same 
class for men. 

Of these bodies the cathedral chapter stood in 
better relations with the government and the citizens. 
Some of the canons were scholarly men, others de- 
sired at least to be considered such, and the rest of 


1Wunderli, Hans Waldman, p. 147, Appendix with statistical 
tables; Bonstetten, Descriptio Helvetia, in Quellen zur Schw. 
Gesch., xiii., 254, etc. 


46 Huldreich Zwingli | 


them were influential in one way or another, although 
not regarded as models of piety. The Augustinians 
and Capucines were also on good terms with the 
people, but the Preaching Friars were disliked. They 
had accumulated a large amount of real estate and 
houses, and were consequently hated as capitalists 
and hard taskmasters.’ 

Besides these intramural establishments there were 
numerous monasteries and chapters scattered about 
the territory of Zurich,’ all of which would be 
affected by any change in the established order of 
worship. Church-building was not neglected, for 
some important restorations date from this epoch. 
The picturesque Wasserkirche was built up new at 
great expense, and the tall, pointed spires which 
formerly stood on the cathedral were added during 
the same period. Some of the best village churches 
of the canton were built about the close of the 
fifteenth century. Much money was given for re- 
ligious foundations, masses, and benevolences, and 
much time was spent in local pilgrimages. Shrines 
on the Zurichberg, in Leimbach, Altstetten, Kiiss- 
nacht, and other places in the vicinity had constant 
visitors. The abbey of Einsiedeln was resorted to 
by hundreds of citizens and strangers at special 
seasons, so that the ceremonies of religion were 

1In 1467 the clergy all told owned 103 houses in the city, and in 
1470 the clerical real estate in the canton was assessed at 82,900 
gulden out of a total of 506,500 gulden. 

2In 1470 there are 14 on the tax list. In 1520 the number of 
foundations is the same. The number of parishes was 103, with 


about I50 pastors and numerous chaplains (Wunderli, Waldman, 
p. 158). 


An Historical Survey 47 


constantly in view. Yet the social condition of 
Zurich was bad. Idleness, luxury, and contentions 
increased in spite of laws and magistrates. 

In looking over the two or three decades which 
introduce the sixteenth century it is seen to be a 
period of great vitality. Energy, life, movement, 
have seized the people. They are conscious that 
some things are wrong and remedies have begun to 
be applied, but this energy itself has been led into 
the wrong path. The arts of war appealed to the 
manly instinct but brought corruption in their train. 
The triumphs of intellect and the conquests of the 
new learning had at first great difficulty in making 
headway, because the Swiss were for the time pre- 
occupied with things military and in the enjoyment 
of ill-gotten gains. Into this path they had been 
enticed, not only by the powers of this world, but 
by the apostolic representative of the kingdom of 
light. No single State of Switzerland was at first 
powerful enough to hinder this decline, and the 
feeble Federal Government met it only with resolu- 
tions, which stood a moment unobeyed and were 
then repealed. It was logical, therefore, that the 
movement which bears the name of Zwingli should 
begin with an attack upon political corruption and 
appeal to the patriotic sentiment of the free-born 
Swiss citizen. 

It remained for one man and one city to start 
the reaction in earnest. The result was the Refor- 
mation. 





HULDREICH ZWINGLI 


, CHAPTER I 


CHILDHOOD AND YOUTH 
1484-1506 


ULDREICH ZWINGLI, the Reformer of 
German Switzerland, was born on Thursday, 
January 1, 1484, in a house which still stands in 
well-nigh perfect preservation. It is in the hamlet 
called Lysighaus, z. e., Elizabeth house, ten min- 
utes’ walk from the parish church of Wildhaus, or, 
as it was then called, Wildenhaus, a village in the 
Toggenburg Valley, in Switzerland, at its highest 
point, 3600 feet above sea-level, and about forty 
iniles east by south of Zurich. It is perhaps twenty- 
five feet deep by thirty feet wide, and, like many 
other Swiss peasant houses, has a peaked roof and 
overhanging eaves. It is two stories high, has a 
hall running through the ground floor, and the large 
room on the right as you enter is shown as that in 
which the great event occurred.’ 


1 Incidental proof of the year of Zwingli’s birth is afforded by his 
remark in a letter written on September 17, 1531: ‘‘I am forty- 
eight” (vili., 644). It is here mentioned once for all that the refer- 
ences thus given are always by volume and page to the edition of 


4 49 


50 Huldreich Zwingli [r484— 


Zwingli was not born in poverty, as his future 
fellow Reformer Luther had been seven weeks be- 
fore, at Eisleben, twenty-five miles west of Halle, 
in Saxony; nor of common people, nor was he 
raised in the school of adversity. On the contrary, 
the family were in comfortable circumstances, and 
were prominent in their community. The carved 
rafters in their living-room bear silent testimony to 
this fact, as the poorer people did not have them. 
But we are not left to that sort of evidence. 
Zwingli’s father was, as his father’s father had been, 
the Ammann, 1. e., chief magistrate, or bailiff, of 
the village, and his father’s brother was the village 
priest ; while his mother’s brother Johann became 
abbot of the Benedictine monastery of Fischingen ; 
and a near relative was abbot of the Benedictine 
monastery of Old St. John’s, only two miles west 
from Wildhaus.' Further proof that Zwingli’s par- 
ents were well-to-do or could command money is the 
fact that Zwingli received about as good an educa- 
tion as the times afforded, and yet there is no evi- 
dence that his father or other relatives had to pinch 
themselves to bring this about. 

Zwingli’s father was a farmer and raiser of flocks 
and herds. Three of Zwingli’s younger brothers and 


Zwingli’s complete works in German and Latin, by Schuler and 
Schulthess, Zurich, 1828-42, 8 vols., Supplement, 1861. But inas- 
much as volume ii. is in 3 parts, and volume vi. is in 2 parts, it 
is needful also to remark that the references to those volumes are 
to volume, part, and page, ¢. g., ii., 2, 3, means vol. ii., part 2, 
page 3; and so in similar cases, 

'See the excursus on Zwingli’s parents, uncles, brothers, and 
sisters at the end of this chapter. 


“SNVHOTIM “SOVIdHLYIG SdTONIMZ 









Ss Net ae 
: a se 
at Ee cee os! 


on] ahd) nie 


or ’ 





1506] Childhood and Youth 51 


two of his older followed his father in these pursuits, 
but Zwingli himself left home too young to have had 
any practical acquaintance with the life, except per- 
haps fora few months. Theallusions he makes to his 
childhood are interesting, and it were good if they 
were more numerous. Thus he says: ‘‘ We recog- 
nise the profound compassion of God in that He 
was willing to have His Son, in the tenderness of 
His youth, suffer poverty for our sakes, so that we, 
instructed by our parents from our earliest years, 
might bear even with joyfulness our evil things and 
deprivation itself.’’’ Again he says: ‘‘ My grand- 
mother has often told me a story about the way 
Peter and the Lord conducted themselves toward 
one another. It seems that they used to sleep in 
the same bed. But Peter was on the outside, and 
every morning the woman of the house would 
waken him by pulling his hair.’’* Again: ‘‘ When 
I was a child, if any one said a word against our 
Fatherland, I bristled up instantly.’’* Again: 
““From boyhood I have shown so great and eager 
and sincere a love for an honourable Confederacy 
that I trained myself diligently in every art and dis- 
cipline for this end.’’ * 

Little Zwingli was taught to observe nature, and 
how well he learned the lesson may be concluded 
from the following passage in one of the latest of 
his treatises, that on Divine Providence: 


‘* Do not the creatures of the race of rodents trumpet 
forth the wisdom and providence of the Godhead? The 


Hag Gee CP ay Slee 2s GOOs CNA 2375 


52 Huldreich Zwingli [1484- 


hedgehog with its spines most cleverly carries a large 
quantity of fruit to its dwelling-place, by rolling over the 
fruit and planting its spines in it. Alpine rats, or mar- 
mots, which we now call the mountain rats, station one 
of their number upon an elevation, that, as they run 
about intent upon their work, no sudden danger may 
fall upon them without his timely cry of warning, while 
meantime the rest of the band carry off the softest hay 
from all around. And when they need waggons they 
turn themselves into waggons by turns, one lying upon 
his back and holding fast with all his feet the hay loaded 
upon his belly and chest, while another seizes by the tail 
his comrade thus transformed into a chariot, and drags 
him with the plunder to their dwelling-place to enable 
them to sleep through the inclemency of the harsh winter 
season. The squirrel, dragging a broad bit of wood to 
the shore by its mouth, uses it as a boat to cross the 
water, hoisting its bushy tail, and being thus driven by 
the favouring breeze needs no other sail. What word, 
what speech, pray, can proclaim the divine wisdom as 
well as these creatures which are among almost the 
humblest of living things? And do not things without 
sensation bear witness that the power and goodness and 
vivifying force of the Godhead are ever with them? The 
earth, that nourishes all things, forgets the wounds in- 
flicted by hoe and plough, and refuses not to furnish rich 
provision; the dew and rain so rouse and fill and re- 
plenish all streams, which by their increase stay the harm 
of thirst, that by their wondrous growth they bear witness 
to the presence of the divine power an@ life. The mount- 
ains, dull, clumsy, lifeless mass that they are, hold fast 
and strengthen the earth as bones do the flesh; they bar 
the way to passage or make it difficult; though heavier 
than the surface of the earth, they swim upon it and 


1506] Childhood and Youth 53 


sink not in; do they not proclaim the invincible power 
of the Godhead, and the solidity and vastness of His 
grandeur ?’’* 


The admiration of Swiss scenery is commonly said 
to date from Rousseau. At all events, Zwingli has 
left no record of the fact that the scenery about 
his early home is of the best description.” As he 
stood on his father’s doorstep he could see the seven 
jagged peaks of the Churfirsten across the narrow 
valley, and if he turned to go to the high-road, 
which then ran higher up on the mountain-side than 
it does now, he came almost under the shadow of 
the Sentis; and both these ranges are snow-capped 
even in summer. But though not taught to ap- 
preciate such attractions any more than other Swiss 
children, and impressed more by the mountains’ 
cold than their beauty, he received in all other 
respects a good home training. The fact that he 
and two of his younger brothers became scholars, 
and his brother James a monk, while he entered the 
priesthood, indicates the strong trend of the family 
ambition toward culture and piety. 

It was natural that when his father determined to 
make a priest out of Huldreich he should have given 
him over to his brother for education. If this 
brother had been like most priests—rooted in 

PAW a OR, CB 

2Myconius, Zwingli’s personal friend and earliest biographer, 
fancifully says: ‘‘ For my part, I have more than once thought, in 
my simple mindedness, that he [Zwingli] drew some of his heaven- 
liness directly from the heavens near which he lived.” — Vita Zuinght, 


ed. Neander, Berlin, 1841, p. 3. This biography is hereafter quoted 
merely as Myconius, giving the page of this edition. 


54 Huldreich Zwingli [1484- 


conservatism—he would have had him taught by the 
old-style teachers. But in the providence of God 
he was a friend of the movement away from scho- 
lasticism, which was gathering fresh force every day. 
Zwingli might have been as good a Toggenburger, 
as loyal a Swiss, and as holy a man, as he became, 
even if he had been trained on the old lines, but not 
the broad-minded patriot, theologian, and Reformer 
if he had been. It is therefore not too much to say 
that we owe the Zwingli of history to the fact that his 
father’s brother was a friend of the New Learning. 
In 1487, Bartholomew Zwingli removed from 
Wildhaus to Wesen, a town on the western end of 
the now little visited but grand and striking Lake 
of Walenstadt. It was only a matter of a dozen 
miles to the south-west of Wildhaus, but the brist- 
ling Churfirsten came between.’ Wesen was the 
market-town of the district, and Bartholomew had 
scarcely been inducted into his rectory before he 
was promoted to be dekan, or superintendent, which 
made him a person of considerable importance and 
influence.” In the rectory at Wesen Zwingli lived 


There is a rough path leading from Wildhaus over the Kaser- 
ruck, 7435 feet above sea-level, in six hours to Walenstadt on the 
east end of the Lake of Walenstadt. Doubtless it was by this path 
that Bartholomew and, later, Zwingli himself came to Walenstadt, 
whence a ten-mile row would bring them to Wesen. C/. Baedeker, 
ed. 1897, p. 46. 

°F. Egli has published several documents of rare interest relative 
to Bartholomew Zwingli. The first is his formal acceptance of the 
call to Wesen, dated January 29, 1487, see Zwinghana (Zurich, 
1899), pp. 32 sgg. for the text and Analecta Reformatoria (Zurich, 
1899), i., pp. I, 2 for the annotations; the second, his resignation 
from Wildhaus, dated May 18, 1487, see Anxalecta, pp. 3, 4. 


“LNSdS SVM GOOHAO® ATYVA S«ITONIMZ SYSHM ‘NSSSM JO MSIA 








7 . 





; pf ate é ue) 2 ae (oe < hs 
ts = ee a ay i . 
Hee NOPE aieatiai a sx RAR RAN aes STR Avie Mie 
\* 
" 4 
aw) 
4 
Fe 
ie ui i 
= 7 
s. f. Ys 
A ~ 
. 


1506] Childhood and Youth 55 


with his uncle, and in the parish school under his 
uncle’s direction he made his first acquaintance with 
learning. But as it was soon evident that he had 
the making of a scholar in him his uncle sent him in 
1494 to Basel, or rather to Klein Basel, which is that 
part of the city on the east bank of the Rhine, to 
the school of St. Theodore’s Church,’ kept by that 
gentle and wise master, Gregory Buenzli, in whom 
Zwinegli found a fatherly friend.’ 

The curriculum of a school like Buenzli’s was 
Latin,* dialectic, and music. The scarcity of text- - 
books, for frequently there was only one for the 
class, often compelled the teachers to resort to dic- 
tation. Zwingli was a brilliant pupil, and in spite 
of all obstacles in four years outgrew Buenzli’s in- 
struction, and was sent home for a fresh start. One 
of his noticeable qualities was his readiness in de- 
bate, which excited the jealousy of some of his older 


1 The church still stands on Wettstein Place, near the river. 
_? Master and pupil afterwards carried on an intimate correspond- 
ence, but only three letters of it remain. Two are from Buenzli 
(vil., Imm and 567), dated February 3, 1520, and December 1, 
1526, respectively; the first of which shows that Buenzli, who in 
1507 (Egli, Avalecta, i., 2) succeeded Bartholomew Zwinglias pastor 
at Wesen, was still there in 1520, the latter having died in 1513; 
the second, that Buenzli was in 1526 failing mentally. The one 
from Zwingli (vii., 257), dated December 30, 1522, alludes to the 
length and intimacy of their friendship and shows quite characteris- 
tic interest in promoting the affairs of one of Buenzli’s friends. 
Zwingli acknowledges Buenzli’s activity in the cause of the Reform- 
ation in his ‘‘ Instructions for Walenstadt,” dated December 13, 
1530 (ii., 3, 86). 

3 In 1526 (vil., 535), Zwingli speaks of learning Latin from Cato’s 
“‘ Morals” (a favourite reading-book in schools), by means of an 
interlinear translation, 


56 Huldreich Zwingli [1484- 


companions.’ Probably on the advice of his uncle 
Bartholomew, he was sent to Bern, which involved 
a journey of one hundred miles westward. There 
he entered the school of Heinrich Woelflin, or, as 
he called himself, following the humanistic fashion 
of the time and Latinising his name, Lupulus, who 
was the first one in Switzerland to adopt in their 
entirety the educational ideas of the Renascence. 
But he was there only from 1498 to 1500, and as no 
letter to or from Lupulus is extant in the Zwingli 
‘correspondence, it is probable that his second 
teacher did not attract him like the first.* The 
occasion of his leaving him was, however, no dis- 
satisfaction with his instruction, but his taking up 
his abode in the Dominican monastery. What in- 
duced him to do so was apparently the training the 
monks promised him in music, for musie was a pas- 
sion with Zwingli, and he was already an accom- 
plished player on various instruments. What 
attracted the monks was his intellectual powers in 
general. But God did not intend that Zwingli 
should be a monk, as Luther was, and as Zwingli’s 
brother James was later, and the means He used 
was the opposition of his father,—and may we not 
say especially of his uncle ?—and Zwingli was taken 
out of the way of temptation and sent to the Uni- 
versity of Vienna. There he was for another two 
years, and “‘ included in his studies all that philo- 


1So Myconius, p. 4. 

* Yet Lupulus accepted the Reformation, probably under Haller’s 
influence, and played a prominent part in the Reformed Church of 
Bern. He died in 1534. 


1506] - Childhood and Youth 57 


sophy embraces’’*; and so he very likely came 
under the influence of Conrad Celtes, who was the 
most prominent classical teacher in the university. 
In 1502 he matriculated at Basel.’ 

Zwingli had up to this time been merely a student, 
but he was now old enough to earn his own support. 
Accordingly, when after a visit to Wildhaus he went 
once more to Basel there to study in the university, 
he sought an opportunity to teach, and he is found as 
a teacher of the classics in the school attached to St. 
Martin’s church.* In the university he studied the 


1 Myconius, p. 4. 

? His name stands thus on the summer semester matricula of 
1500 in Vienna University : 

Udalricus Zwingling de Lichtensteig. .......... 29 den. 

In the summer semester matricula of 1502 in Basel his name appears 
fourth in a list of thirteen entered under the rectorship of Johannes 
Wenz, which began May 1, thus: 

Udalricus Zwingling de Lichtensteig....... Reece vi. sol. 
These entries are printed in Egli’s Analecta Reformatoria, i., pp. 
8-10. It is noteworthy how Zwingli’s name was then spelled. He 
seems to have varied the spelling himself. In 1526 a literary oppo- 
nent twitted him for changing his name from Zwingli to Zwinglius 
(vii., 551). Zinlius is the form used by Grebel, see Die vadia- 
nische Briefsammlung, ed, Arbenz, é. g., lil., 50. The abbrevia- 
tions at the ends of the lines quoted above give the amount of the 
matriculation fees: 29 den. means 29 denaries or pence; vi. sol. 
means 6sous. Lichtensteig or Liechtensteig was the nearest market- 
town to Wildhaus, and so given as the better known place to hail 
from. 

3 The church still stands, but the school has vanished. It is near 
the market-place. The excellence of his instruction was testified to 
long afterwards by one of his grateful pupils who became a prominent 
man and who wrote to him in 1519 (vii., 85). Myconius says p. 4. 
Zwingli was head-master of St. Martin’s school, but considering his 
age at the time this is improbable, 


58 Huldreich Zwingli [1484- 


ordinary curriculum in the arts course, and this in- 
cluded theology, which was taught in the scholastic 
manner, and so, judging from his later remarks 
upon the way theology was presented, he was more 
disgusted than edified.* Still he made thorough 
work. In 1504 he took his B.A., and in 1506 his 
M.A.’ 

In the latter year, 1506, he received a call to be 
rector at Glarus, and as this is only a few miles south 
of Wesen and was included in the superintendency 
of Wesen, it is plain that his uncle Bartholomew 
was a main factor in the call. After what self- 
debates we know not, but probably after something 
of a struggle, Zwingli, who had been by choice a stu- 
dent and teacher of the classics, turned his back upon 
such pursuits to take up the busy life of a pastor, to 
whom teaching could not be the sole occupation. 

But before he arrived at such a momentous change 
he had had his thoughts upon theology powerfully 
affected by contact with Thomas Wyttenbach, who 
after having been teacher at Tuebingen, on Novem- 
ber 26, 1505, began to lecture at Basel upon the 
‘* Sentences ’’’ of Peter Lombard, this systematic 
introduction to the Fathers being the text-book in 
every medieval university. Wyttenbach was a man 
with a message, and found in Zwingli a receptive 
hearer, who accepted certain of his ideas which were 
called heretical, and ever after defended them. In 
1523 he thus bears testimony to his indebtedness to 
Wyttenbach: 
~ 1See Myconius, p. 5. 

*Egh (Analecta Reformatoria, i., p. 11) gives the text of these 
promotions. 


*9061-Z0d! ‘LHONVL IMONIMZ TOOHOS SSOHM NI 
‘QNNOYOSYHOS SHL NI HOYNHO S«NILYVAW “LS ONIMOHS ‘\asva@ LV SNIHY SHL JO MIA 








1506] Childhood and Youth 59 


““TIn the beginning of this year (for I came to Zurich 
on St. John the Evangelist’s Day [1519]) none of us had . 
ever heard of Luther, except that he had published some- 
thing upon indulgences—a subject on which I did not 
require much enlightenment because I had already been 
taught what a cheat and delusion indulgences were by 
my master and beloved faithful teacher, Doctor Thomas 
Wyttenbach, of Biel, who had held at Basel some time 
before in my absence a disputation on the subject.’’ * 


In 1527, he again speaks of Thomas Wyttenbach, 
‘“most learned and holiest of men,’’ as teaching 
him that ‘‘ the death of Christ was the sole price 
of the remission of sins,’’ and ‘‘ therefore that faith 
is the key which unlocks to the soul the treasury 
of [such] remission.’’* Another of Wyttenbach’s 
ideas, which Zwingli emphasised later, was the su- 
preme authority of Holy Scripture. So although 
their connection was of the briefest description, not 
lasting more than a few months, still Wyttenbach 
made a permanent impression, and may well be 
reckoned among the influences which ultimately led 
him to break away entirely with Mother Church.’ 


1J., 254, in his exposition of the ‘‘ Articles” of the Zurich dis- 
putation of January, 1523. 

2TII., 544, in his reply to Luther. 

8 Wyttenbach was born at Biel, or Bienne, sixty miles west by 
south of Zurich, in 1472, and died there in 1526. In 1496 he was 
matriculated at Tuebingen, made M.A. there in 1500. In Basel he 
lectured from 1505 to 1507, when he became people’s priest in Biel 
and was to the rest of his days identified with that place. He 
showed his independence and his defiance of ecclesiastical authority 
by marrying in 1524, and from that time on his troubles were 
incessant. He was deprived of his position, and just when he had 
increased need of money he found himself without any, and till the 


60 Huldreich Zwingli [1484- 


Three men who afterwards were destined to play 
-prominent parts in the Swiss Reformation were 
fellow students with Zwingli under Wyttenbach, 
viz., Capito, Jud, and Pellican, and likewise owed 
to him their direction to the study of the Bible and 
emancipation from the bondage of Scholasticism. 
Jud, in fact, gave up medicine for theology in 
consequence. 


LExcursus on Zwingl’s Parents, Uncles, Brothers, 
and Sisters. 


The last mention of Zwingli’s father, whose first name also was 
Huldreich, is in his brother James’s letter, dated in 1513, and given 
below. How much longer he lived is unknown. His mother, whose 
name was Margaret Meili, is not mentioned in any precedent or sub- 
sequent letter to or from Zwingli, or elsewhere, but he once speaks 
of his grandmother in the passage (i., 524) quoted above, cf. p. 51. 
His father’s brother, Bartholomew, died at Wesen in 1513, as already 
stated. His mother’s brother, Johann, became abbot of Fischingen, 
twenty miles east by north of Zurich, in 1510, and so continued till 
his death in 1523. Abbot Christian of Old St. John’s was a relative, 
but on which side is unknown, He was on very intimate terms with 
the family, as the Zwingli correspondence shows, and had the satis- 
faction of receiving James Zwingli as a monk; see the letters of 


end of his days was miserably poor. But though in dire need he 
pleaded the case of spiritual freedom and kept up a gallant fight. 
His exertions won over many to the Reformation, and while he lay 
dying his heart was gladdened by the thought that his beloved native 
city was about to be numbered with the other Reformed cities of 
Switzerland. He and Zwingli were frequent correspondents, yet 
only one letter has been preserved, viz., a long one by Zwingli 
on the Eucharist, dated June 15, 1523 (vii., 297-300). It is 
addressed ‘‘to his dear preceptor and brother in Christ at Biel.” 
Zwingli sends him a greeting as ‘‘his dear preceptor” in a letter to 
Haller, December 29, 1521 (vii., 187). 


1506] Childhood and Youth 61 


James and Andrew below, and, fassi, in the Zwingli correspond- 
ence. On January 14, 1520, he wrote a very deferential letter to 
Zwingli (vii., 109), asking his aid in securing additional revenue 
for the monastery. In 1528, he was driven from his monastery by a 
mob, but was later restored. In 1555, his monastery was annexed to 
the abbey of St. Gall, which was founded by the Benedictines. 

The names and order of the birth of the brothers and sisters of 
the Zwingli family were: MHeini (also called Hainy or Henry), 
Klaus (or Nicholas), Huldreich (also called Ulrich), Hans, Wolf- 
gang, Bartholomdus, Jacob (or James), Anna, Andrew, and an un- 
named daughter. Of /fezwz there has been preserved one letter 
(vill., 430, 431), dated from Old St. John’s, March 9, 1530. It 
promises Zwingli the earliest obtainable information from trust- 
worthy friends on the Rhine concerning any action which affected 
him. The letter has as joint author a certain Hans Rudlig, and so 
it is in their joint names. The probability is that Heini could not 
write any more easily (if at all) than the brothers named above, 
except James and Andrew. So Blasius Farer, on December 9g, 1524, 
wrote to Zwingli from Stein, ‘‘ by the command” of his brothers 
(vii., 372). As is the case with other letters in the Zwingli cor- 
respondence, these letters from Heini and Farer are in both German 
and Latin, the German being doubtless the original. Of A7/aus we 
know that he had a servant who died of the plague, see Andrew’s 
letter, p.65. Muldreich is the subject of this biography. Of Hans, 
Wolfgang, and Bartholoméus we know nothing personal. From 
the fact that in 1523 he addresses his surviving brothers collectively 
in the dedication of his sermon on the Virgin Mary (i., 84-87), 
it is known that they were living in Wildhaus together and pursuing 
the calling of farmers, shepherds, and goatherds, just as their fathers 
had done; and that much to his disgust some of them had entered 
the mercenary military service. It is likely that they accepted the 
Reformation. 

Zwingli sent Yames to Vadian’s care with this letter of introduc- 
tion, dated Glarus, October 4, 1512 (vii., 7), and accompanied it with 
an historical sketch of the 1512 Italian campaign of the Glarus con- 
tingentin the papal army. (See p. 71.) ‘‘ The bearer of this is my 
own brother, a boy of good promise ; when I thought over to whom 
to send him to be initiated into the sacred mysteries of philosophy, 
you always occurred tome. Therefore, I beseech you by the sweet- 
ness of our friendship that you polish, smooth, and finish him with 


62 Huldreich Zwingli [484 


plane, axe, and rake. I am sure you will find him most obedient. 
But if he dare to be disobedient, shut him up without compassion 
until his petulance effervesces. He has 50 gold pieces for the two 
years, so that he will need to be economical.” 

That James considered his allowance altogether too small is shown 
by this letter, the only one of his preserved (vii., 7) : 

‘‘ Brother James Zwingli! to Huldreich Zwingli, philosopher and 
rector at Glarus. Greeting: Would that the All swaying and su- 
premely Good God would so bring it about that you might estimate 
my studies as highly as I do your liberality and brotherly kindness ! 
And I do not despair of this;.for I can be advanced so much by 
your example and exhortations (not to leave room for which would 
be degeneracy), also by Master Joachim Vadianus, whose pupil I 
now am; I am nourished by the flowers and rivulets of all the sci- 
ences, from which it would be a crime for those ignorant of philo- 
sophy to withdraw. Therefore, let me not be defiled by this wrong 
or that; doubt not that I will strive with perennial energy. Yet 
one anxiety is left; I cannot live for two years upon the 50 gold 
pieces allowed me. Ido not complain of this, by Mars, because I 
am given to high living. By Hercules’ I live pretty roughly. Tf 
live upon the food carried away from the dinner table ; I am com- 
pelled to drink water which can be made by no benediction to lose 
its original bad taste. In accordance with the warning of Joachim, 
let 50 gold pieces be added to the 15 I received, and this you would 
assent to if you knew the circumstances. When I reached Vienna, 
only 11 remained, so expensive was the journey, and of them I spent 
7 for books and then bought a bed. Assuredly money slipped so 
quickly out of my hands that there is hardly a penny left. Then 
there are 1g florins to be paid the procurator for food and 5 yearly 
to Joachim, so that unless I can look for 30 gold pieces a year study 
cannot be carried on. Therefore, my brother, on your side take 
things in good part, and make your ears gracious to my appeal, and 
I will on my part always respect your wishes. 

““Concerning my studies I cannot write more, as I have hardly 
tasted them. I gain very little from the reading of Pliny as I lack a 
copy. I hear with the greatest attention lectures on Lactantius’s 
De Opifictum and the rest from [John] Camertes [professor of theo- 
logy], the most learned man in Vienna at this time. I hear the 


' The word “‘ frater” in the inscription of this letter means brother 
in the monastic sense, 


1506] Childhood and Youth 63 


Letters of Cicero by our Joachim and the text of the Sestences [of 
Peter Lombard] from a certain Father, a bachelor of letters. I 
study, unwillingly though, the Déalectics, and I hear this, that, and 
the other, which it is not necessary to speak of. Though it will be 
seen how far I shall profit by any particular course when I have put 
the finishing touch to it. So much for this. ; 

““As to the money, do your part that what is coming to me may 
be handed to Francis Zili, citizen of St. Gall, grandfather of Valen- 
tine Tschudi, so that: it may reach me by March 23d. I have written 
the same thing to the abbot [probably that of St. John’s], and by 
command of my instructor I have asked father for a good new coat. 
So see to it they get their letters as soon as possible, so that all may 
be done at an early date. Have them read through this one’s letter 
to the dekan [of Wesen, Bartholomew Zwingli, James’s uncle] as 
soon as possible. JI and the writer of this [z. ¢., Valentine] are in 
one boat. Urge Valentine’s relatives to be liberal, for though they 
are rich they are very frugal. : 

“‘Tf there is any news let me have it.. Not far from us a doubtful 
conflict has been fought between the Hungarians and the Turks, and 
this terrifies the Austrians. Do not be angry at this unpolished let- 
ter. Farewell! The good fortune of Metellus' and the years of 
Nestor be yours. Greet our respected John, Dr. Gregory [pastor] 
of Swandon, my comrade Fridolin, and my sister [of Glarus]. 

“Vienna, at the house of Saint Jerome, January 23, 1513.” 

When James went to Vienna he was already a monk, (see above), 
and so his matriculation entry in the winter semester of 1512 reads ; 


Fr[ater] Jacobus Zwinglin professus ad s. Joannem prope 

IN OETA or eise BS DOA. COD HOOT IRIS mR RA Occ cece 4 grossos, 
This fact about James Zwingli was first published by Egli, Avalecta, 
i, 12, Valentine Tschudi’s name comes on the next line of the 
matricula. James died a monk in the Scotch monastery in Vienna in 
the year 1517. Zwingli, writing to Vadian, June 13, 1517 (vil., 24), 
says: ‘‘God Almighty knows how much grief has been cast upon me 
by the sudden death of my brother, to whom you showed every 
attention that your kindest of kind hearts could suggest.” John 
James a Liliis introduces himself to Zwingli in a letter from Paris, 


1 Quintus Czecilius Metellus Macedonius, the Roman censor who 
died 115 B.c., and whose name has passed into a proverb of human 


happiness. 


64 Huldreich Zwingli [1484- 


October 21, 1518 (vii., 49), as an intimate friend of Zwingli’s deceased 
brother James. 

Anna married Leonard Tremp, a master tailor in Bern, who 
eventually became a leading citizen and was an ardent promoter of 
the Reformation there. Four letters from him to Zwingli have been 
preserved, all in German with a Latin translation: vii., 483, in 
which he warns Zwingli against going to the Baden conference lest 
he be murdered on the way ; viii., 23, in which he speaks of various 
cantonal matters; vili., 195, which seems to be imperfect ; vili., 276, 
in which alone does he mention his wife, confesses his personal fault 
in regard to the treaty between Geneva and Bern, which Zwingli had 
strongly deprecated; and one letter to him and Zwingli, vii., 524. 
These letters show the intimate footing he stood on with Zwingli. 
So in the letter from Haller to Zwingli, dated January 28, 1522 
(vii., 189), Tremp and his wife are thus mentioned: ‘‘ Tremp, most 
affectionate of your friends, and his most worthy wife are well and 
hope that you are also in the best of health.” And Zwingli sends 
remembrances to Tremp when writing to Bern, e. g., vil., 319. It 
was from Tremp’s house that Megander and Haller wrote to Zwingli 
on March 2, 1531 (vili., 583). 

In regard to Andrew, who was apparently the youngest of the 
family, there is a little more known. He was an inmate of Zwingli’s 
house in Zurich when the plague broke out in midsummer of 1519. 
Zwingli was then at Pfaefers, but on his return to Zurich sent 
Andrew for safety’s sake to his brothers at Wildhaus, where he and 
his brothers were well when on January 14, 1520 (vil., 10g, II0), the 
abbot of Old St. John’s wrote to Zwingli. Then Zwingli took sick 
himself. Not knowing the reason for his silence, Andrew wrote the 
first of the two letters given below, all that remain of their corre- 
spondence. As soon as he could, Zwingli transferred him to his 
(Zwingli’s) unmarried sister’s care at Glarus, and sent him to school 
there (see Andrew’s second letter). When it seemed safe to do so, 
Zwingli recalled him to Zurich, but, alas! the lad took the plague 
and died on November 18, 1520. Zwingli thus announced to his 
bosom friend, Myconius (vii., 155), the death of this dear brother: 

“Zwingli to Myconius, Greeting. I am doubtful whether the 
evils which befall me (if they are evils), ought to be communicated 
to you, who are a man of most sympathetic disposition. For I fear 
that if I do not warn you beforehand you will fall into unrestrained 
grief, so regardful are you of me. And yet: I beseech that you will 


"NSLSYHISHYNHO JO M3IA ONIMOHS ‘SHLNOS ONIMOOT ‘SNVHATIM 








Childhood and Youth 65 


endure my misfortunes with a calm mind, even as I myself endure 
them. Because now I endure with equanimity what formerly threw 
me into spasms of grief and mourning more than feminine, when I 
was suddenly and unexpectedly overwhelmed with sorrow. Still I 
recovered myself, so that now once more I stand firm. ‘Thanks be 
to God! And so do you take it calmly when I tell you of the death 
of my brother Andrew, a youth of great promise and excellent parts, 
whom the plague slew on St. Elizabeth day [November Ig], envious 
(I think) of our blood and renown. Had he lived a year longer he 
would have come to you [at Lucern] to be instructed by you and 
your son in Greek. But so far am I from remonstrating with God 
that I am ready to offer myself. Enough of this. 

““Tam awaiting your letter and those manifold songs recommended 
by Zimmerman, for which our people here are looking daily. 

“Farewell, and love me in my bereavement as you are accustomed 
todo. Except for my loss the plague grows no worse, for-I do not 
know that within a month or so more than four or five haye died. 
I send my good wishes for your wife and children, Zimmerman, the 
Provisor, and all. 

“ ZuricH, November 25, 1520. 

““P.S. Iam not at home, driven out rather by the persuasions of 
my friends, than by my own fears of death, and I shall soon return. 
So you will not wonder that this letter is not sealed in my usual 
fashion, » Francis Zinck greets you.” 

As Zinck was papal chaplain at Einsiedeln it is likely that Zwingli 
was there when he wrote this letter. 

The two letters of Andrew Zwingli (vii., 88, 89), already men- 
tioned, are as follows : 

I. ‘‘Andrew Zwingli to Huldreich Zwingli. Greeting. I wish 
you would inform me, my dear brother, how you are; for we do not 
know whether you are well, since you have written nothing. You 
said when I came away that the abbot [of Old St. John’s] should 
soon receive a letter from you ; but I see that he has not. What the 
delay is I do not see. But the abbot seems to me (it is only my in- 
ference) to take it hard that you do not write to him more frequently, 
and that you passed by him when you had been at Pfaefers. You 
should know that the pestilence is raging here, for seven or eight 
have died. We are all safe thus far by the will of God. But our 
brother Nicholas’s servant has died, but not in his house. The 


abbot and our brothers tell me to send you their greetings; the 
) 


66 Huldreich Zwingli 


abbot adds that you are to write to him when your business will 
allow you. I beg and beseech that you will ever have me com- 
mended to you. 

‘“« Farewell, and take this in good part. Greet for me your col- 


leagues and your family. 
“Yours, 


““ ANDREW ZWINGLI. 

“Thursday before the Feast of St. Gall [z. ¢., October 13], 1519.” 

Il. ‘‘ Andrew Zwingli to Huldreich Zwingli. Greeting. A cer- 
tain incredible tide of joy swept over me, dear brother, on reading 
your letter, from which I perceive that you are convalescing daily. 
What more pleasing news could I have than that you are well! For 
you have deserved so well of me that I cannot render an equivalent. 
Nevertheless, I shall always be prepared to serve you to the best of 
my ability with hands and feet. And he shall not see Andrew alive 
who sees him forgetful of you ! 

““Vou write also that I must add some Greek to the Latin, so that 
I may not forget what I have learned with so much pains. Still I 
think you know that there is no one here who cares a straw for 
Greek, except the school-master, and business so distracts him that 
he has no leisure. You advise me not to go to beasts of this sort. 
I so approve of the advice you give me in so brotherly a manner that 
J will no more approach those equine beasts. I will certainly do so 
and grow wise through painful experience, according to the proverb : 
‘A burnt child dreads the fire.’ 

“* As to the books of which you write, you may understand that I 
received all, both Elmer’s and mine, and he himself gave me the 
money. You know that I am now well, and that I desire you to 
inform me how you are. Farewell. The school-master and Hiru- 
deus, Elmer, and my sister tell me to send you greetings. Farewell 
again and again, bear with me kindly and ever put me among those 
who are most fond of you. 

‘** Gtarus [November ?], 1519. 


‘“You will greet in my name your assistants and your family. 
Also salute in my behalf most diligently my teacher Myconius, and 
Luchsinger, 

“* Yours, 
‘CANDREW ZWINGLI.” 


The unnamed sister of Zwingli was married in Zurich in 1524 to 
Zwingli’s friend, John James Ammann (vii., 341). The marriage 


Childhood and Youth ~ 67 


could not have lasted long, for Zwingli, writing on March 12, 1529 
(viii., 270), speaks of Huldreich Stoll as his sister’s husband and 
apparently alludes to the same sister. She died at Glarus in 1579 
and left descendants. She is mentioned in the letters of James and 
Andrew given above. 

Blasius Farer, writing on October 23, 1525 (vii., 422), to Zwingli 
from Stein, eleven miles east of Wildhaus, the place already men- 
tioned on p. 61, alludes to the fact that Cunhart Clauser, the public 
clerk of Thur, had married one of Zwingli’s relatives. 


CHAP TEA ant 


AT GLARUS 
1506-1516 


EVEN and a half miles south of Wesen and 
forty-three miles south-east of Zurich, upon a 
little plain guarded by lofty mountains, lies Glarus; 
and thither Zwingli, in the fall of 1506, went as par- 
ish priest.’ It was an important charge, for three 
considerable villages—Netstall, two miles north, 
Ennenda, one mile south, and Mitloedi, two anda 
half miles south—as well as the town of Glarus were 
comprehended in this parish —in fact nearly one 
third of the canton. 

But as Zwingli was a layman when he received 
the call, he had to be ordained, and may have gone 
to Constance for this purpose. Certain it is he 

! His predecessor was Johannes Stucki. Heinrich Géldli, a young 
Zuricher of a prominent family, but already a pluralist, indeed a 
speculator in church livings, laid claim to the place on the strength 
of a letter of investiture from the Pope, Julius II., whose ‘‘ courte- 
san,” 2. é., hanger-on, Géldli was. Zwingli was compelled to buy 
him off at an expense of more than a hundred gulden, twenty of 
which were made up to him by his congregation when he left them. 
Cf. vii., 237, and allusion inii., 1, 2. Goldli was not, however, en- 
tirely silenced until he received a papal pension in 1512. C/. Hottin- 
ger-Wirz, Helvetische Kirchengeschichte, iti., 299 ; Schuler, Zwingh’s 
Bildungsgeschichte, p. 302. For additional evidence of Géldli’s 
grasping and rascally character, see vii., 183; and also Professor 
Vincent’s chapter, pp. 29-31. 

68 


‘NOWH3S 1SYI4 SIH O3HOV3Yd 3H HOIHM NI HOYNHO SHL S! LNIUd SHL JO LYVd YaddA SHL NI 1331 3HL NO ONIGTING 3HL 
“AVG S«ITONIMZ NI TAMSYSddVY SO MSIA 

















Fe ts SS 








1506-16] At. Glarus 69 


preached his first sermon at Rapperswyl, in the 
church at the back of the old castle on the promon- 
tory jutting out into the Lake of Zurich and twenty- 
seven miles from that city. And on Michaelmas 
day, which that year (1506) came on Tuesday, 
September 29th, he read his first mass in the parish 
church at Wildhaus. He then went to Glarus.’ 


' None of these churches thus associated with his early life now 
exists. The church at Rapperswyl was burnt in 1881. If that nowon 
its site is the same size as the old church it must have been quite 
large, as the view in this volume shows. At Wildhaus there are 
now two churches, That on the present high-road is the Reformed 
and is modern, but is probably on the site of the parish church in 
Zwingli’s time ; the one directly back of it is also comparatively new 
and belongs to the Roman Catholics. The church wherein he offici- 
ated at Glarus was burnt in the conflagration which well-nigh de- 
stroyed the town on Friday, May 10, 1861, and upon its site is a 
building containing the Law Courts, the Public Library, and a small 
museum. The principal church of the place is some little distance 
from it, and is used by the Roman Catholics and the Reformed 
together. But as it was built subsequent to the fire and is used by 
the same union congregation, it may be considered as keeping up the 
connection with Zwingli, for Zwingli was not followed into the 
Reformed faith by all his congregation, and his successor ministered 
to both communions in the same church! The only relic of Zwingli 
preserved at Glarus is a very interesting one, viz., the silver chalice 
used by him in celebrating the Eucharist. It is in the keeping of 
the Roman Catholic priest, who, however, courteously shows it to 
Protestant pilgrims. The Reverend Professor William J. Hinke of 
Ursinus College, in the Reformed Church Record for November 25, 
1897, thus describes it: ‘‘ It is like a flat bowl in shape, four inches 
wide, while the whole cup is but five inches high. The foot of the 
cup is adorned by four seals, containing pictures of the four evangel- 
ists, together with their symbolical representations. The stem of the 
cup has projecting knobs with rosettes adorning the ends. On the 
base is scratched ‘ Calixi Uly Zwingli, 1516.’” On August 23, 1897, 
Professor Hinke made the photograph which is reproduced in this 
volume, 


70 Huldreich Zwingli [1506~ 


To the Glarean period of Zwingli’s life belong the 
earliest of his compositions which have been pre- 
served, and which were circulated in manuscript 
during his lifetime, but not published until after 
his death. They consist of two rhymed productions 
in the vernacular, dating from 1510; and an account 
of the doings of the Glarean contingent in Italy in 
1512. The so-called poems are not much better 
than doggerel in rhymed couplets. The first, en- 
titled “The Labyrinth,” is the story of Theseus, 
Ariadne, and the Minotaur. Applying the classical 
myth he makes the thread reason; the Minotaur 
shame or sins and vices; Ariadne the reward of 
virtue. On his way to the Minotaur Theseus passes 
several pictures of animals on the sides of the laby- 
rinth which at first startle him. These animals are 
allegorically explained as enemies of the Swiss. So 
the poem is an allegory of Switzerland in the midst 
of its foes, the pensionaries, z. ¢., those who in the 
pay of foreign Powers hired out their countrymen 
for foreign military service. 

The second so-called poem is still more decidedly 
allegorical, but has much less interest and general 
merit. It is entitled “‘ The Ox and the other Beasts.” 
It isa tame picture of the Swiss (the ox), surrounded 
by cats (pensionaries), and attended by a faithful 
dog (the national feeling), alternately the victim of 
the wiles or the attacks of the lion (France) and the 
fox (Venice). The shepherd (the Pope) endeav- 
ours to deliver it from its foes. The application 
is throughout obviously to the practice which had 
grown up of distributing pensions among prominent 


1516] At Glarus 71 


Swiss in order to secure their countrymen for mili- 
tary service in foreign countries.’ : 
The third composition is much more interesting 
and important. It was written in Latin inside of 
three hours— much of Zwingli’s work was done 
hastily.” It relates the doings of the mercenaries 
who went from Glarus into Italy in 1512, and is the 
sole specimen we have of Zwingli as an historian. 
It is proof that if he had devoted himself to history 
he would have excelled.* 
Accepting the historical sketch just alluded to as 
based on personal observation, Zwingli went three 
times to Italy as chaplain of the Glarus contin- 
gent, in 1512, in 1513, and again in 1515, and 


1 The two poems are printed in ii., 2, 243-268, with prefaces and 
translations into modern high German. Zwingli himself translated 
the second poem into Latin and his translation is also given. His 
dear friend, Loriti, the distinguished Humanist, did not consider this 
rendering altogether a success (vii., 4). 

2TV., 167-172. In its hasty composition it resembles his first pub- 
lication, ‘‘ A Godly Exhortation,” etc., which was thought out, as the 
preface informs us, written, and printed inside of three days (ii., 2, 287). 

8 James Zwingli brought it to Vadian, along with his letter of 
introduction already given above, p. 61. It is debated whether 
Zwingli wrote this account from his own personal knowledge or 
from the reports of the returned soldiers, many of whom would be 
parishioners of his. The account does not pretend to be at first 
hand, and there are expressions which seem to betray ignorance 
such as would not be likely in so bright a man as Zwingli if he had 
been in Italy at the time. On the other hand it is every way prob- 
able that he went with those of his parishioners who formed part of 
the papal army of that year, as he unquestionably did in 1513 and 
1515, and as was indeed his duty to do as a Swiss pastor, and the 
errors can be explained on the ground of haste or of that curious 
fatality to blunder which characterises some writers, even historians. 


72 Huldreich Zwingh | [1506- 


these journeys had considerable influence upon his 
life. In ways quite different from the journey 
which Luther made to Italy they contributed to 
his emancipation from the allegiance to the Roman 
Church which characterised his early life. Dur- 
ing his first experience as army chaplain occurred 
the battles of Ravenna and Pavia, in the second 
the victory of Novara, thirty miles west of Milan, 
one of the most remarkable battles of history, 
wherein seven thousand Swiss overcame twenty-one 
thousand French troops, well supplied with cavalry 
and artillery, while the Swiss were without either. 
The zeal which Zwingli displayed in the papal in- 
terest on both these campaigns was so manifest, 
while at the same time his independence was equally 
manifest, that the Pope, hearing of his perform- 
ances, thought to bind the young Swiss to his ser- 
vice by making him papal pension agent for the 
canton of Glarus,’ and further by the grant of an 
annual pension of fifty gulden’* “‘ for the purchase 
of books,’’ as it was euphemistically styled. This 
papal pension was destined to bring Zwingli into 
trouble. 

Zwingli’s position in the papal favour may have 
been the reason why he was selected to head the 
following petition for certain favours from the Pope, 
if indeed he did not write the petition, and also the 
reason why they were secured: 


1). J. Hottinger, Helvetische Kirchengeschichte, ii., 578. 
*7., 354. The amount was considerable for those days. See the 
excursus on the papal pension, pp. I14 sgg. 


1516] At Glarus 73 


A Petition to the Pope for a Confessor and Certain 
Privileges for the Priest Master Zwinglt and 
Eleven Companions. 


[1512-1513 ?] 


Most Blessed Father: For the better provision for the 
safety of the souls of your devoted petitioners, Master 
Huldreich Zwingli, presbyter, [and] Heinrich Haessi, 
Anton Murer, Huldreich Tschudi [and] Judoc Tschudi 
of Glarus, Wolfgang Zymmermann, Johann Speich, 
Marcus Mad, Huldreich Landolt, Margareta Zilin, 
Rudolf Brunner, and Melchior Murer, of the laity of the 
Diocese of Constance, husbands and wives, and of their 
children of either sex, the aforesaid petitioners humbly 
beseech Your Holiness to grant as a mark of special 
favour to them that such suitable confessor of the secular 
or any regular order as any of them shall consider 
eligible, shall have power to absolve them from all ec- 
clesiastical judgments, censures, and penalties, of ex- 
communication, suspension, interdict, or of other nature, 
imposed by law or by man upon any occasion or for any 
cause, from transgressions as to any vows, oaths, or 
mandates of the Church, and as to fasts, from guilt of 
mental or accidental homicide, from neglect of penances 
imposed or of divine offices, and from all their sins, 
however grave, which they have repented of in their 
hearts and confessed with their lips, even such as ought 
properly to be referred to the Apostolic See, when re- 
served, once in life and at the moment of death, save 
only those contained in the Bull on the Lord’s Supper 
[Bulla in Cana Domini |, when not reserved to the 
Apostolic See, as often as shall be necessary, and to im- 
pose penance unto salvation, also to commute to other 


74 Huldreich Zwingli [1506- 


works of piety all vows save only those of Religion and 
Chastity or of pilgrimage to Jerusalem, to the resting- 
place of Peter and Paul at the City [of Rome], and of St. 
James in Compostella [Santiago de Compostella is in 
extreme North-western Spain], and to release from all 
oaths without prejudice to other parties, also once in life 
and at the moment of death to bestow with apostolic 
authority remission of all their sins with plenary absolu- 
tion. Moreover, that it be Jawful for any presbyter or 
noble or graduate among the petitioners to have a port- 
able altar, with due reverence and honour, at which even 
before daylight, though about dawn, to cause to be cele- 
brated by their own or other suitable priest in presence 
of themselves or of any one of them, their families, and 
household, or themselves to celebrate, masses and other 
divine offices, and to attend divine service and receive 
the Eucharist and other sacraments of the Church, in 
places appropriate thereto and worthy, even though they 
be not consecrated and in ordinary course under the in- 
terdict of the Church, provided they have not given cause 
for such interdict; except, however, upon Easter or to the 
prejudice of the rector [of the parish]. That the bodies 
of those of the petitioners who pass away at the time of 
such interdict may be delivered to ecclesiastical burial 
therein without funeral pomp. Also, that by devoutly 
visiting upon separate days in Lent or other days of the 
Stations of the City in any one year one or two churches 
or two or three altars which any one of them shall have. 
selected as suitable in the parts where the separate peti- 
tioners happen to be residing for the time, they may ob- 
tain as many and such indulgences as they would obtain 
if they visited in person annually the separate churches 
of the City, which because of such Stations are usually 
visited by the faithful of Christ. Besides, that in Lent 


1516] At Glarus 75 


and on other forbidden days they may upon the advice 
of a physician eat and partake of eggs, meat, or butter, 
cheese, and other milk products, without scruple of con- 
science, at any time. Furthermore, that You will deign 
by special favour and indulgence to grant permission and 
authority for the women or any one of them with three 
or four respectable women to be entitled and empowered 
to enter four times a year with permission of those in 
charge any convents of nuns of any order, including that 
of St. Clara, and to eat and converse with the nuns, pro- 
vided they do not stay all night, any regular enactments 
or ordinances promulgated by the Apostolic Chancery to 
the contrary notwithstanding, and that it please You on 
this occasion specially to invalidate these and all other 
opposing regulations whatsoever with the customary 
clauses. 


As to [power to remit sins] ‘‘reserved” once in life and at the 
moment of death with said exceptions.! 

As to [power to remit] those not reserved to the Apostolic See as 
often as shall be necessary. 

As to commutation of vows, with said exceptions, and release 
from others. 

As to remission with plenary absolution once in life and at the 
moment of death. 

As to a portable altar, with the clause ‘‘ before day” and places 
under interdict, as above. 

That they may attend divine service and receive the sacraments 
. and be buried at times of interdict as set forth. 

As to the indulgences for the Stations of the City through visiting 
churches or altars as above. 

As to the eating of meat, eggs, butter, and other milk products, 
at forbidden times as aforesaid. 

As to permission to enter convents of nuns for women, as above. 








1 These and the following items evidently are notes upon the 
petition made by the papal notary and show point by point that the 
requests were granted, 


76 Huldreich Zwingli [1s06- 


With invalidation of the aforesaid regulations of the Chancery for 
this occasion at least. 

That the present indulgence shall last and not be reckoned as re- 
called during the life of the separate petitioners. 

That full credence be accorded these presents everywhere when 
signed by a notary public and provided with the seal of some digni- 
tary of the Church thereto appointed. 

That the signing of this petition is sufficient in itself without the 
despatching of other document. 

That the provisions may be competent to the separate petitioners 
without mention of the others. 


Granted as petitioned in presence of our Lord the 
Pope, L[eonard de la Rovere], Cardinal Bishop of Agen. 
G. [C. ?] DE RusEIs. 
[On the back] Put[Lrppus ?] DE Sents, Correct[or].’ 


When Zwingli went to Italy in 1515 he found that 
the agents of other princes had made the Glareans 
disaffected towards the Pope and ready to take serv- 
ice under the French. This seemed to him to be 
disgraceful. It was one thing to help the Pope and 
quite a different thing for mere money to fight 
against the Head of the Church. So at Monza, 
nine miles north-north-east of Milan, while preach- 
ing on the Feast of the Nativity of the Virgin, Sat- 
urday, September 8th, he took occasion to rebuke 
those plotters against the Pope. But the French 
bribe was in so many cases successful that quite a 
serious defection was caused in the Swiss ranks, 
with the result that the papal troops were badly 
beaten in the battle of Marignano, ten miles south- 


1 Latin text, with annotations, in E. Egli’s Avalecta Reformatoria, 
i., 13-16. It had previously been given less accurately in Archiv 
Suir die schweizerische Reformationsgeschichte, iii., 600, 601, 


"SNYVISN JO M3IA IVWYANAD 








1516] At Glarus is 


east of Milan, upon September 14th and 15th, and 
their reputation as the Ever Victorious gone for 
ever. 

The correspondence between Zwingli and _ his 
friends during the Glarean period is the earliest 
preserved and has special interest as showing the 
kind of company he kept in his opening years and 
how he was gradually developing into the Reformer. 
It sets him forth as very tenderly solicitous for his 
younger brothers, as ready to serve his friends and 
so as having friends ready to serve him, as the faith- 
ful teacher of several promising youths, and asa ris- 
ing Humanist. He possessed a library of remarkable 
size, the envious admiration of his friends, devoting 
to its increase the papal pension he received. He 
was deeply interested in the literary events of the 
day and, like other friends of the New Learning, 
watched eagerly the printing-press to see what 
treasures it would bring forth. His friends and 
pupils praise him to the skies as a paragon of learn- 
ing and sum of all the virtues. But this style of 
talk was the fashion among the Humanists and often 
meant only that the person addressed and his corre- 
spondent belonged to the same literary aristocracy. 
Zwingli took this adulation quietly and on occasion 
returned it. Thus he addressed the really great 
Erasmus in terms of the grossest flattery, a way all 
the latter’s friends had. From this letter the fact 
is derived that so profoundly did he reverence 
Erasmus that he never went to sleep at night with- 
out reading a little in his works. 

The letters exchanged between Erasmus and 


78. Huldreich Zwingli [1506- 


Zwingli in this period, which have been preserved, 
are here given’: 
The first letter is from Zwingli to Erasmus: 


‘“To Erasmus of Rotterdam, great philosopher and 
theologian, Huldreich Zwingli sends greeting: When I 
am about to write to you, Dr. Erasmus, best of men, I am 
on the one hand frightened by the lustre of your learn- 
ing, which demands a world larger than the one we see; 
and on the other hand I am invited by that well-known 
gentleness of yours which you manifested towards me, 
when in the early spring I came to Basel to see you, for 
it was an unusual proof of kindness that you did not 
despise a man who is a mere infant, an unknown smat- 
terer. But you have granted this to the Swiss blood 
(which I perceive is not so greatly displeasing to you); 
you have granted it to Henry Glarean, whom I see you 
have taken into intimacy with yourself. 

‘“ You may have wondered greatly that I did not remain 
at home, since [when I got to Basel] I did not even seek 
the solution of some most difficult questions (as your 
own vain talkers are wont to do from you). - But when 
you discover by reflection that what I looked for in you 
was that far-famed efficiency of yours, you will cease 
to wonder. For, by Hercules, I admire boldly and even 
shamelessly this which you have in perfection, together 
with a friendliness of manner and pleasantness of life. 
So that when I read your writings I seem to hear you 
speaking and to see you, with that finely proportioned 
little body of yours, gesticulating with elegance. For 
without boasting you are so much beloved by me that I 
cannot sleep without first holding converse with you. 


1VII., 10, 12.. The order is reversed for the reasons given on p. 81, 


1516] At Glarus 70 


*“But why am I wearying your most learned ears with 
these uncouth sounds? For I am not ignorant that 
jackdaws should eat from the ground. Well, that you 
may know how far it was from being the fact that I was 
sorry for the journey that I made to see you (as did those 
Spaniards and Frenchmen, who, as the divine Jerome © 
says, once went to Rome to see Livy), I think that I have 
made a great name for myself and make my boast in no- 
thing else than this, that I have seen Erasmus — the man 
who has deserved most highly of letters and the secret 
things of Sacred Scripture, and who so burns with love 
to God and men that he thinks that whatever is done for 
the cause of good letters is done for himself. All good 
men ought to pray that God will preserve him in safety 
to the end that sacred literature freed by him from bar- 

-barism and sophistry may increase to a more perfect age 
and that the tender shoots bereaved of their great father 
may not be left without protection and care. 

‘“But now, to bring this tragedy to a close, I in return 
for all those kindnesses which you have shown me have 
given you what A’schines gave to Socrates,— though not 
an equal value,— myself.’ But you do not receive this 
gift which is not worthy of you! I will add, more than 
the Corinthians did when scorned by Alexander — that I 
not only will give it to no other but never have done 
so. If you do not accept it even thus, it will be sufficient 
to have been repelled by you. For nothing will more 
contribute to the correction of one’s life than to have 


1 Allusion to the speech of the Athenian philosopher of that name, 
son of a sausage seller, of whom Socrates is said to have remarked 
that the sausage seller’s son alone knew how to honour him. Zwingli 
doubtless derived his allusion from Seneca, De beneficits, I., viii. In 
1522 Zwingli invited Erasmus to settle in Zurich. See Erasmus’s 
reply, vil., 221, 


80 Huldreich Zwingli [1506- 


displeased such men. So whether you are willing or 

unwilling, you will, I hope, restore me in improved con- 

dition to myself. Finally, when you have used your pos- 

session in whatsoever manner is pleasing to you, farewell. 
‘“Guarus, April 29, 1515.” 


The reply of Erasmus was this : 


‘“Erasmus of Rotterdam to Huldreich Zwingli at 
Glarus, a philosopher and theologian most learned, a 
friend beloved as a brother: Greeting. 


‘“The fact that you are so well disposed towards me 
has been avery great delight to me, as is your letter, 
equally sprightly and learned. If I respond in short 
measure to this last, you must not lay it up against me. 
For by these labours, which seem to me as though they 
would never be finished, I am often compelled to be less 
kind than I would be to those to whom I least wish to 
beso; but to myself I am by far the most unkind, drain- 
ing the resources of my intellect which not even a quint- 
essence may restore. That the results of my lucubrations 
are approved by you, so approved a man, greatly rejoices 
me, and they are on this account less displeasing 
to me. 

‘“T congratulate the Swiss, whose genius I particularly 
admire, upon the fact that you and men like you will 
embellish and ennoble them by your most excellent pur- 
suits and customs, with Glareanus as leader and standard- 
bearer, who is not less pleasing to me on account of his 
marked and varied erudition than on account of his sin- 
gular purity and integrity of life—a man, too, entirely 
devoted to yourself. 

‘“It is my intention to revisit Brabant immediately after 
the Feast of Pentecost; at least so things are tending. 


1516] At Glarus 81 


But I do not willingly tear myself away from these 
regions. 

“Be careful, my Huldreich, to use the pen now and 
then, which is the best master of speech. I see that 
Minerva is favourable if the training is maintained. I 
have written this at dinner, at the request of Glareanus,* 
to whom I can deny nothing, no, not even if he should 
tell me to dance stark naked! Farewell. From Basel.’’ 


Allusions in letters and in later years in discourses 
fix in this Glarean period several important events. 
First, Zwingli’s study of Greek. The first intima- 
tion that he was thinking of beginning this study 
is in 1510°; but he does not seem to have made 


1 Henry Loriti was a native of Glarus, hence his pen-name. This 
undated letter is put in the spring of the year 1514 in the Schuler 
and Schulthess edition of the Zwingli correspondence (vii., 10), on 
the ground that after Pentecost Erasmus made a visit to Brabant. 
The fact that Erasmus commonly did not date his letters has made 
the exact chronology of his life the despair of his biographers. See 
Emerton’s Lvrasmus in this series, passim. Staehelin (i., 80) puts 
it in May, 1515, on these grounds: (xr) that the way Zwingli begins 
his letter of April 29, 1515, is not consonant with the reception of 
so friendly an epistle; hence that letter must have been written 
before the Erasmus letter. (2) Zwingli’s letter does not imply any 
epistolary contact between them. (3) As Glareanus did not come 
to Basel till the spring of 1514, he would hardly in that year have 
cemented so firm a friendship as Erasmus testifies to. As friendship 
depends upon common tastes, and where these exist is a plant of 
very rapid growth, this third ground does not seem very strong. 
Erasmus and Glareanus had much in common. It is noteworthy 
that both Erasmus and Glareanus were too much dissatisfied later on 
with the course of the Reformation to follow Luther and Zwingli 
into the restored Christian Church. 

?Glarean writes to him in that year: ‘‘ The Jxtroduction [to 
Greek], with its author, you will learn about rather at Basel than at 
Cologne (vii., 2).” 

6 


82 Huldreich Zwingli [1506- 


a real start till 1513, when, writing to Vadian on 
February 23, he says: ‘‘ I am applying my igno- 
rant self to the study of Greek and Latin. I do 
not know who has stirred me up to the study of 
Greek unless it is God; I do not do it on account 
of glory, for which I do not look, but solely for the 
sake of Sacred. Literature.” “cin 1523, in’ his ex 
position of the Articles of the first disputation of 
that year, he says: ‘‘ Ten years ago I began the 
study of Greek in order that I might learn the 
teaching of Christ from the original sources.’’* His 
progress seems to have been reasonably rapid, espe- 
cially in view of the fact that he had apparently 
no teacher.* However, a little knowledge of Greek 


LATS e@: 

27.,254. Greek study in Western Europe was then in its infancy. 
Teachers were scarce and text-books were scarcer still. The only 
Greek grammar in use in the West was that by Emanuel Chrysoloras 
(b. at Constantinople 1355 ; d. at Constance 1415), which was known 
as the Lvotemata, the Greek title meaning ‘‘the interrogatives,” 
and was first printed in Venice in 1484, and frequently afterwards 
in different places. Zwingli calls it the ‘‘ Introduction ” (Zsagogen) 
of Chrysoloras ; and as Glareanus (vii. 2) speaks of an ‘‘Isagogen” 
which he had undertaken to translate, but had to lay aside from ill 
health, it is likely that he refers to the same book. Zwingli asked 
Vadianus what he (Zwingli) should take up after he had finished it 
(vil., 9). Glarean, writing from Basel on October 24, 1516, says: 
‘‘T do not know whether you have a Greek dictionary or not. If 
you need one write to me and I will see that it is sent you at once” 
(vii., 18). The lexicon Zwingli used was that of Suidas (Milan, 
1499), and on the first page of his copy he wrote in Greek: ‘‘ Ezu2 
tov ZuyyAtov nai rov xvpioy pndau@s uaradrdéw ef py 
Satépov anoSavorros.” Cf. Usteri, Znitia Zwinglii (‘‘ Studien 
u. Kritiken,” 1885, 621), The book was in the Zwingli exhibition 
at Zurich, Jan, 4-13, 1884. See catalogue of the same, p. 9. 

* At least Myconius, writing to him on October 28, 1518, says: ‘‘I 


1516] At Glarus 83 


made one in those days a paragon of learning, while 
if one joined to it a smattering of Hebrew such an 
accumulation was almost superhuman, and, indeed, 
it was sometimes hinted, betrayed Satanic influence! 

Second, his emancipation under the influence of 
his growing knowledge from the traditional the- 
ology. He was able to make the most of his ad- 
vantages. Thus, in his preface to his commentary 
on Isaiah,’ he writes: 


““The Lord has granted that from boyhood I should 
come by reading to a knowledge of things divine and 
human. .. . In this round of studies I have worked 
so joyously and heartily that I have profited whoever the 
master may have been, yet never was so wedded to any 
that I was not willing to receive the teachings of others 
if they produced anything weightier or clearer than my 
master for the time being.’’ 


His earliest teachers in systematic divinity were 
the Basel scholastics. He thus describes his 
emancipation: 


‘*In my younger days I was as much devoted to worldly 
knowledge as any of my age, and when seven or eight 
years ago I gave myself up to the study of the Bible I 
was completely under the power of the jarring philoso- 
phy and theology. But led by the Scriptures and the 
Word of God I was forced to the conclusion: you must 
leave them all alone and learn the meaning of the Word 
ask you to show me your plan for studying [Greek] without a 


teacher” (vii., 51, 52). And in his life of Zwingli he states that he 
(Zwingli) learned Greek from ‘‘ lexicons and translations” (p. 5). 


1V., 547 59. 


84 Huldreich Zwingli [1506- 


out of the Word itself. So I asked God to give me His 
light and then the Scriptures began to be much more in- 
telligible when I read them themselves alone than when 
I read much commentary and exposition of them. Do 
you not see that was a sign that God was leading me? 
For I never could have come to such a conclusion by 
my own small understanding.’’ * 

Two men had a large part in this emancipation. 
One was Giovanni Pico della Mirandola, who was 
born in Mirandola in 1463, and died in Florence 
in 1494. He had in the winter of 1486-’87 pro- 
posed to maintain against all comers nine hun- 
dred theses of a miscellaneous character, though 
predominantly religious and theological, but the 
Pope (Innocent VIII.) prohibited the discussion, 
and thirteen of the theses were selected for con- 
demnation.* This brought him into disfavour till in 


1J., 79. Cf. Myconius, p. 5. 

2? The thirteen obnoxious theses were as follows, as given by J. M. 
Rigg in his preface to his translation of Sir Thomas More’s Giovanni 
Pico della Mirandola (London, 1890), pp. viii, ix : 

1. That Christ did not truly and in real presence, but only guoad 
effectum [in effect], descend into hell. 

2. That a mortal sin of finite duration is not deserving of eternal, 
but only of temporal punishment. 

3. That neither the cross of Christ, nor any image, ought to be 
adored in the way of worship. 

4. That God cannot assume a nature of any kind whatsoever, but 
only a rational nature. 

5. That no science affords a better assurance of the divinity of 
Christ than magical and cabalistic science. 

6. That assuming the truth of the ordinary doctrine that God can 
take upon himself the nature of any creature whatsoever, it is pos- 
sible for the body of Christ to be present-on the altar without the 


1516] At Glarus 85 


1493 Innocent’s successor, Alexander VI., acquitted 
him. Zwingli had, while a teacher in Basel, approved 
of at least some of these theses, although which ones 
is unknown, and had been called in consequence in 
certain quarters a heretic,’ and was in 1510 still in- 
terested in Pico.* Resemblances have been traced 
between Pico and Zwingli on such points as the 
Eucharist, providence, and predestination.”* 


conversion of the substance of the bread or the annihilation of 
‘‘paneity ” [the state of being bread]. 

7. That it is more rational to believe that Origen is saved than that 
he is damned. 

8. That as no one’s opinions are just such as he wills them to be, 
so no one’s beliefs are just such as he wills them to be. 

g. That the inseparability of substance and accident may be main- 
tained consistently with the doctrine of transubstantiation. 

10. That the words ‘‘hoc est corpus meus” [‘‘ this is my body ”] 
pronounced during the consecration of the bread are to be taken 
‘‘materialiter”’ (¢. ¢., as a mere recital) and not ‘‘ significative” (z. ¢., 
as denoting an actual fact). 

11. That the miracles of Christ are a most certain proof of his 
divinity, by reason not of the works themselves, but of his manner 
of doing them. 

12. That it is more improper to say of God that he is intelligence, 
or intellect, than of an angel that it is a rational soul. 

13. That the soul knows nothing in act and distinctly but itself. 

1Cf. Myconius, pp. 5, 6; Bullinger, Reformationsgeschichte, \., 7. 

2In that year, Glareanus, writing to Zwingli, alludes manifestly 
to some remark of the latter upon Pico (vii., 2). Several of Pico’s 
books are now in the collection of Zwingli’s books in Zurich. See 
catalogue of the Zwingli exhibition of 1884, p. 9. 

°C, Sigwart (Ulrich Zwingh: der Character seiner Theologte mit 
besonderer Rucksicht auf Picus von Mirandula, Stuttgart, 1855) 
made this comparison, but later modified his views. In regard to 
the Eucharist, Melanchthon states explicitly that Zwingli confessed 
to him that Erasmus first suggested his theory (Corpus Reforma- 
torum, iv., 970). 


86 Huldreich Zwingli [1506- 


But Zwingli’s chief emancipator was Erasmus.’ 
In 1523, he thus declares his indebtedness to him: 


**T will not, dearest brethren in Christ Jesus, with- 
hold from you how I came to the opinion and firm 
belief that we require no other mediator than Christ ; 
also that between God and us no one can mediate ex- 
cept Christ alone. Eight or nine years ago I read a 
consolatory poem on the Lord Jesus,’ written by the 
profoundly learned Erasmus of Rotterdam, in which 
with many very beautiful words Jesus complains that 
men did not seek all good in Him, so that He might be to 
them a fountain of all good, a Saviour, comfort and 
treasure of the soul. Sol reflected, Well, if it is really 
so, why then should we seek help of any creature? And 
although I found other hymns or songs by the same 
Erasmus on St. Anna, St. Michael, and others, in which 
he calls upon the saints of whom he wrote as interces- 
sors, still this fact could not deprive me of the know- 
ledge that Christ was the only treasure of our poor souls; 
but I began to éxamine the biblical and patristic writings 


1 The position of Erasmus among the young Humanists of the early 
part of the sixteenth century had many points of similarity to that of 
Matthew Arnold’s among the college men of the United States thirty 
and perhaps twenty years ago. Like Arnold he was read by the 
whole set and sworn to with all a young man’s ardour. His scepti- 
cism, his cynicism, his wit, his learning, his versatility were appre- 
ciated, but by no means implicitly approved by those who read him. . 
There was a fascination about him even to those who knew how de- 
fective his character was. Those who came ultimately to quite dif- 
ferent conclusions were grateful to Erasmus for having exposed the 
hollowness of monkery and the falsity of the medieval claim of fin- 
ality for the scholastic method. 

2“ Expostulatio Jesu cum homine suapte culpa pereunte,” Zrasmi 
Opera omnia, Leiden ed., v., cols. 1319, 1320. 


rgi6))) At Glarus 87 


to find out if I could learn from them concerning the 
intercession of saints. To be brief, I have not found it 
at all in the Bible; in some of the Fathers I have found 
it, in others not.’’? 


It was Erasmus after all who set him against 
the scholastic theology and in favour of the Bible, 
taught him to value the classics and to take sensible 
views in general. He therefore turned to the Script- 
ures and so diligently studied them that his know- 
ledge would have been considered remarkable in any 
age. His writings abound with apt quotations from 
all parts of the Bible and of such a character that 
they show a mind saturated with it. 

It was during this Glarean period that he made 
two discoveries which were destined to have a de- 
cided effect upon all histhinking. The first related 
to the cardinal doctrine of the Lord’s Supper. He 
thus tells the story: 


‘““It was while pastor at Glarus that I came across at 
Mollis [four miles north of Glarus] an Obsequial, z. ¢., a 
book for baptismal, burial, and benediction services, 
which although old was in respect to the writing com- 
plete, and unaltered; and therein stood a Latin rubric, 
that immediately after the infant had been baptised, 
‘then shall to the child be administered the sacra- 
ment of the Eucharist, including the chalice containing 
the blood.’ . . . How long this practice was ob- 
served in the canton of Glarus I have not been able to 
find out, but surely it is not two hundred years since 


ols, MISE 


88 Huldreich Zwingli [1506- 


that in Mollis the Lord’s Supper was administered in | 
both kinds.’’ ’ 


The second was made while campaigning in Italy, 
viz.: that the mass-books did not agree exactly; 
especially he noted the variations of the Ambrosian 
liturgy, as he found it in an old service-book in the 
neighbourhood of Milan. He collected such books 
and compared them. The variations were slight, 
but sufficient to disprove the claim of the Church of 
Rome that her liturgy was the same in all times 
without variation.” 

His life in Glarus must have been a busy one. 
His parish was large, and yet he increased his 
labours by teaching the classics. He was a hard 
student himself and incited an enthusiasm for learn- 
ing in his pupils. In regard to the duties of his 
office he says: ‘* Young as I was, the priestly office 
filled me with more fear than joy. Because I knew 
and still know that the blood of the sheep who 
perish through my unfaithfulness will be required 
. at my hands, so have I ever used my office to pro- 
mote peace.’’* Being convinced that the preacher 
needed every help available, he read widely in the 
classics, studied eloquence,‘ and for purposes of 

Lilet 24O. ° IIL, 87 sg., 92. For Luther’s similar discovery 
in Milan, see Kostlin, i. 106. . 

3T., 353. This was said in 1523 in allusion to the Glarean period. 

4It is conjectured that Zwingli studied the treatise by the Basel 
preacher, Johannes Ulricus Surgant, entitled Manuale curatorum 
predicandi prebens modum. tam latino atque vulgart sermone practice 
illuminatum : cum certis aliis ad curam animatorum pertinenti- 


bus - omnibus curatis tam conducibilis atque salubris, the first edition 
of which had appeared at Basel in 1503, and which took high rank 


"9191-9091 ‘GSHOVSUd ITONIMZ NISYSHM SNYV1IDN LY HOYNHO AHL 








1516] At Glarus 89 


pulpit illustration,’ memorised Valerius Maximus, 
the Latin author who has so industriously collected 
anecdotes. Unfortunately no specimen or descrip- 
tion of his preaching during this period has been 
preserved, except the very vague remark of his 
friend and earliest biographer that he ‘‘ preached 
gospel grace without alluding at all, or, if so, very 
cautiously, to the abuses of the Church of Rome,’’? 
and the equally vague remarks of one who had 
heard him only once, but whose object in writing is 
to contrast him with his successor, of whom he 
gives a very bad account.* But that he had won 
considerable reputation as a preacher is evinced 
by his being subsequently engaged to preach at 
Einsiedeln, the most famous place of pilgrimage in 
German-speaking lands, and especially at the feast 
of the “‘Angel Dedication,’’ when it was particular- 
ly complimentary to be asked, as only renowned 
preachers were invited." 

Part of his growing reputation was due to his 


as a manual on homiletics. It was indeed the kind of book Zwingli 
would use, but there is no proof that he did, as it is nowhere men- 
tioned by him or in any letter of his correspondents. See E. Chris- 
ten, Zwingli avant la réforme de Zurich (Geneva, 1899), p. 38. 

1 The monks were in the habit of enlivening their sermons with 
more or less moral tales. And so in this respect Zwingli followed 
the fashion of his age. Even when addressing the unlearned, he 
interlarded his discourses with classical references and allusions, 
But the rich biblical setting he gave them showed that he was no 
mere pedant. 

* Myconius, p. 6, who had just spoken of his studies and pulpit 
preparations, p. 5. 

3 VII., 165 sgq. 

4See next chapter, . 


90 Huldreich Zwingli [1506- 


stand in respect to the mercenary traffic, that curse 
and shame of his country, which he early deter- 
mined ‘‘utterly to root out.’’* At first he had made 
an exception, as has been already remarked, of the 
papal service, but he soon came to see that papal 
gold was just as corrupting as secular, and further 
that the Pope as a warrior was not a whit different 
from other princes, indeed, was as faithless as any- 
one else. So he condemned the traffic zz ¢oto. It 
had originated in consequence of the great fame 
the Swiss had made as soldiers when fighting for 
their country against Charles the Bold, Duke of Bur- 
gundy, especially by the victories of Granson and 
of Morat in 1476. It was then customary to hire 
troops wherever they could be gotten, so the reput- 
ation of the Swiss made them eagerly sought after. 
This meant that foreign princes bid against each 
other for the opportunity of hiring them and were 
willing to pay leading Swiss to act as agents in this 
business. Such agents were called pensionaries. 
Thus prominent families were interested in the 
traffic, and Zwingli’s opposition brought him the ill- 
will of these persons. But his opposition was made 
on moral grounds; the degeneracy caused by contact 
with foreign lands, and the deterioration in character 
involved in fighting merely for money excited his 
rage and disgust, and having been with the mer- 
cenaries he could speak from personal knowledge. 
Then, too, Glarus was during the sitting of the Diet 
a centre of this disgraceful business. ‘* Every day 
we receive,’’ he testifies, “‘ messengers from the 


1 Myconius, p. 5. 


1516] At Glarus gI 


Pope or the Emperor, the Milanese, the Venetians, 
the Savoyards, and the French, and send others to 
them.’’’ It will be readily understood that his per- 
petual preaching against the pecuniary interests 
of leading and influential Glareans excited counter 
demonstrations. Men always resent what affects 
their pockets, and so when these leaders and the 
many persons of lower rank who were more or less 
dependent on the traffic had heard the young priest 
hold them up time and time again as “‘ un-Swiss,”’ 
as dealers in the souls of men, and in other uncom- 
plimentary terms, they determined to get rid of 
him. The rank and file of his congregation were 
devoted to him, and no act of theirs would have 
severed their relation, but the machinations of the 
pensionaries and their beneficiaries made his life a 
burden, and so in the spring of 1516 he announced 
his intention to remove to Einsiedeln.’ 


Excursus on the Zwingli Correspondence in General, 
and on that of the Glarean Period in Particular. 


Most of the letters printed in the two volumes in the Schuler and 
Schulthess edition (vii. and viii.) devoted to the Zwingli correspond- 
ence are addressed to him, many of his letters having perished. As 
he had no amanuensis, at least not prior to 1524 (vii., 328), he must 
have written his letters with his own hand, which, as he had an ex- 
tensive correspondence, was, as Myconius tells us, a laborious task 


1 See his letter to Vadian, February 23, 1513 (vil., 9). 

2See his letter from Einsiedeln, June 13, 1517 (vii., 24). Cha 
letter to him from a friend in Glarus (vii., 161 sgg.), alluded to above, 
written on January 23,1521, which states that it was Zwingli’s 
criticism of the pensionaries which compelled his departure, and in 
closing alludes to the sorrow the news of his brother’s death had 
caused in Glarus. 


92 Huldreich Zwingli [1506- 


p- 8). Apparently he kept no copy of his letters, but he some- 
times made a translation into Latin of those he wrote or received 
in German. So many letters in the volumes given are in two lan- 
guages. Staehelin published in 1887 five new letters from Zwingli, 
and more may be forthcoming. A. L. Herminyard has incorporated 
in his monumental Correspondance des Réformateurs dans les Pays 
de langue Frangatse (vols, 1. and i1., 2d ed., Paris, 1878) three let- 
ters of Zwingli and seventeen to him, but they include none hitherto 
unknown, and one, No. 82, is only a French translation of the 
closing part of Zwingli’s dedicatory letter addressed to Francis I. 
in sending that King his ‘‘Commentary on True and False Re- 
ligion.” But Herminyard’s careful annotations are very welcome. 

Of the thirteen letters from the Glarean period, and there are none 
earlier, only three are Zwingli’s. The interest which attaches to the 
youth of distinguished men makes it proper here to analyse these 
thirteen letters in order that the associations and occupations of 
young Zwingli may be discovered as far as may be. 

I. From Glarean, Cologne, July 13, 1510 (vii., 1, 2). It relates to 
personal and literary matters, and incidentally shows how eagerly 
the products of that still new invention, the printing-press, were 
awaited by scholars. 

II. From Vadian, Vienna, April 9, 1511 (vil., 3). It relates toa 
common friend of great promise, Argobast Strub of Glarus, whose 
memorial volume Vadian transmits. 

III. From Glarean, Cologne, April 18, 1511 (vii., 4, 5). It ac- 
knowledges receipt of Zwingli’s translation into Latin of the verses 
on ‘‘ The Ox and the other Beasts,” and criticises it rather severely, 
though gently as became their friendship. See p. 71, n. 

IV. From Glarean, Cologne, 1511 (vii., 5). It shows that Zwingli 
was helping him secure a place in Basel, whence he had just returned, 
and in connection with 

V. From Johann Heinrich Wentz, Basel, 1511 (vii., 6), relates toa 
mysterious episode in Zwingli’s early life. It appears that Zwingli . 
probably while teaching in Basel had received a benefice in St. Peter’s 
church, but he had so much neglected its probably purely formal duties, 
whatever they were, that the papal Nuncio (Pucci) had drawn up the 
notice of excommunication, but at the earnest solicitation of Wentz, 
who was rector of the Basler University when Zwingli matriculated 
and who had a great affection for him, the Nuncio had held it back 
for a while. Wentz implores Zwingli to treat the matter seriously 


1516] At Glarus 93 


and do what was necessary to avoid the disgrace of being excom- 
municated. Nothing more is known of the affair. Wentz died Janu- 
ary 25,1518. See vii., 33. Staehelin thinks (i., 54) that iv. and v. 
should change places. There probably is in Pucci’s letter of Sept. 
I, 1518, offering Zwingli a papal acolyte chaplaincy (see next 
chapter), allusion to this with other ecclesiastical disabilities still 
existing from which he desired to absolve Zwingli, when he writes: 
«In case you are involved in any way in any ecclesiastical judgments, 
censures, or penalties of excommunication, suspension, interdict, 
or of other nature, imposed by law or by man upon any occasion 
or for any cause, we absolve you.” 

VI. From Zwingli to Vadian, Glarus, October 4, 1512 (vii., 7). 
Already given in full, pp. 61, 62. 

VII. From James Zwingli, Vienna, February 20, 1513 (vii., 7, 8). 
Already given in full, pp. 62, 63. 

VIII. From Zwingli to Vadian, Glarus, February 23, 1513 (vii., 
8, 9). Already quoted, p. 82. 

1X. From Johann Dingnauer, Kilchberg, on the Lake of Zurich, 
December 6, 1514 (vii., 9, 10). It gives him an invitation to come 
and see him and incidentally alludes to Erasmus’s high opinion of 
Zwingli. Zwingli recommended Dingnauer to Winterthur, sixteen 
miles north-east of Zurich, as pastor (vii., 30). 

X. From Erasmus, Basel, 1514, more likely 1515 (vii., 10). Al- 
ready given in full, pp. 80, 81. 

XI. From Peter Falk, January 23, 1515 (vii., 11, 12). Falk was 
a prominent citizen of Freiburg in Switzerland, twenty miles south- 
west from Bern. He offered Zwingli the free use for two years 
of a house in Pavia, italy, and of a farm at Casale, thirty-five 
miles west of Pavia, with the services of a farmer to look after it ! 

XII. From Zwingli to Erasmus, Glarus, April 29, 1515 (vik. 22, 
13). Already given in full, pp. 78-80. 

XIII. From Valentine Tschudi, Basel, July 31, 1515 (vii., 13, 14). 
Tschudi was one of Zwingli’s pupils at Glarus, and his successor 
there in 1522 (see p. 120). He expresses his gratitude and speaks of 
his present studies under Glarean. He died in 1555. See Schuler. 
Zwingh’s Bildungsgeschichte, pp. 319, 320. 


CHAPTER Til 
AT EINSIEDELN 
1510-1518 


WINGLI in writing to Vadianus from Ein- 
siedeln on June 13, 1517, thus explains his 
leaving Glarus: 


‘“T have changed my residence, not at the stimulus of 
desire or of avarice, but because of the wiles of the 
French; and now I am at Ejinsiedeln. . . . What 
disaster that French faction has at last wrought me the 
wind of rumour has doubtless wafted to you. In the 
things done I too have had a part, but I have borne or 
have learned to bear many misfortunes.’’ ’ 


It was on Monday, April 14, 1516, that Theobold, 
or as he was also called, Diebold, von Hohen- 
geroldseck, administrator of the monastery at Ein- 
siedeln, met Zwingli in the castle at Pfaeffikon, on 
the southern shore of the Lake of Zurich, twenty 
miles from that city, but only about five miles north 
of Ejinsiedeln, to discuss his going to Einsiedeln 
as people’s priest. The interview being mutually 
satisfactory, the papers were witnessed by his uncle, 
Johann Meili, abbot of Fischingen, and his former 
teacher, Gregory Buenzli, pastor at Wesen, and. 

IVIL, 24. 


94 


[1516-1518] At Einsiedeln 95 


sealed by the administrator and by Zwingli. He 
was promised a salary of twenty florin a year, pay- 
able quarterly, and also an income from gifts, 
masses, and confessional fees of the abbey church.’ 


1See the contract in Hottinger, Ast. eccl., viii., 24-26; better 
and with explanatory notes in Egli, Anxalecta Reformatoria, i., 16- 
1g, which translated reads thus : 


Contract of Zwingh with the Administrator of the Convent of 
Linsiedeln, 


‘*Tn the name of the Lord, Amen. Whereas the Reverend Father 
and Lord in Christ, Domine Theobold von Hohengeroldseck, Admin- 
istrator of the monastery of Einsiedeln, upon whom devolves the 
care of the pastoral office, which is greatest of all, cannot by himself 
attend to so many things, and lest the blood of those under him be 
required at his hands, also because these hands are kept busy with 
greater duties, he has provided for himself one to whom he can with- 
out anxiety assign a part of his burdens, appointing as his substitute 
in the curacy the worshipful gentleman, Domine Huldreich Zwingli, 
Master of Arts. Inclined thereto by the petition and the character 
of the aforesaid worshipful gentleman, he willingly designates him 
vicar or people’s priest of the aforesaid monastery of Einsiedeln, 
observing the customary stipulations and articles of agreement, not 
because any lack of confidence exists on either side, but for the 
greater security, in view of the instability of man. 

‘“TIn accordance therewith it has been duly covenanted in the pre- 
sence of the honourable gentlemen named below and at the place and 
time indicated : 

‘*First, that he shall obey the Lord Abbot or his Administrator in 
all things lawful and right ; shall watch over the advancement and 
interest of the monastery, and guard it from loss and injury in 
every way in his power, and shall preside over those placed under 
his pastoral care as becomes a good and upright pastor, and minister 
unto them with all diligence. 

“« Secondly, it has been covenanted that the aforesaid Master Huld- 
reich with his assistant! shall dine at the regular table in the refec- 
tory of the monastery, while the Lord Administrator shall receive 





1 Zwingli’s assistant was Master Lukas. See vii., 29, 167, 184, 226. 


96 Huldreich Zwingli [1516- 


He did not, however, take up his residence at 
Einsiedeln until October of that year, 1516,’ and he 
remained pastor of Glarus till he went to Zurich. 
He so signs himself on October 30, 1517, when 
writing to the chief magistrate of Winterthur’; his 
name so appears upon the official records, and he 
drew the parish income and out of it paid his 
““vicar’’ or substitute. His people were anxious 
to retain him and promised to rebuild his house if 


the tithes, the revenues from the Martyrologium,! and a part of the 
confession money, leaving to Master Huldreich the offerings and 
burial fees, and he, the Lord Administrator, to wit, shall give the 
same twenty florins a year, sixteen batzen to the florin, payable 
quarterly. 

‘«Thirdly, the Lord Administrator promises that when any bene- 
fice which belongs to his jurisdiction becomes vacant, he will make 
provision for the aforesaid Master Huldreich from the same, pro- 
vided that he shall first relinquish the right to his own benefice at 
Glarus. ; 

‘*Given in presence of the following witnesses, to wit : 

‘«The Reverend Father and Lord in Christ, Domine John, Abbot 
of Fischingen; the worshipful gentleman, Domine Master Gregory 
[Buenzli], people’s priest at Wesen ; the worshipful Domine Master 
Melchior Stoker, people’s priest at Freienbach [on Lake Zurich, six- 
teen miles south-west of the city]; and the worshipful Domine Master 
Zinck of Castle Pfeffingen [Pfaeffikon]. 

‘“In witness whereof the Seal of the Convent of the aforesaid 
Monastery has been affixed, and the Lord Administrator and Master 
Huldreich have affixed their seals this fourteenth day of April, in the 
year one thousand five hundred and sixteen.” 

1 This comes out in his correspondence, which incidentally shows 
that he was in Glarus most of August and September (cf. vii., 15, 
17). But Glareat-us, writing from Basel in October, 1516 (vii., 18), 
implies that Zwingli was already removed to Einsiedeln. 

CNAM IA xey, 





1 In the back of this book the names of benefactors of the monastery were 
inscribed, 


1518] At Einsiedeln 97 


he would stay. They were proud of his reputation 
for scholarship, of his large library, of his musical 
skill, of the friends he had made, and of his de- 
voted pupils, and of his rise from obscurity to pro- 
minence among the Swiss. They knew what an 
excellent preacher he was, how faithful a pastor, 
how firm a friend, how enthusiastic a patriot, how 
generous, how jovial, how self-sacrificing, in short, 
what a fine man he was. But his enemies, though 
far less numerous than his friends, were equally de- 
termined and compelled his departure. 

The feeling of dismay with which his pupils heard 
that he had left Glarus is expressed by one of them 
who wrote: ‘‘ What could possibly have happened 
more saddening for our Glarus than to be bereft of 
so great aman!’’* He, on his side, returned love 
for love. Writing to a friend in October, 1522, he 
thus speaks of his pleasant relations with Glarus: 


“JT lived in such a peaceful and friendly manner with 
my lords in Glarus that we never had the smallest diff- 
culty, and went away in such favour that they allowed 
me for two years to receive the income of the living, in 
the hope that I would come back; and indeed I should 
if I had not been called to Zurich; and moreover on my 
resignation they made me a present of twenty gulden 
towards recouping me for the cost of the lawsuit. For 
the living cost me much more than one hundred 


99 2 


gulden. 
To this congregation he dedicated his first consider- 


EN alps 17, 
? The letter is given in German and Latin, but in both forms is 


unfinished. See vii., 237, and page 68 of this volume. 
ai 


98 Huldreich Zwingli [1516- 


able writing in behalf of the Reformation, “ The Ex- 
position of the Articles,” Zurich, 1523, in this fashion: 
““To the honourable, prudent, wise Chief Magis- 
trate, Council, and Congregation of the Canton 
Glarus, from of old time Christians and Confeder- 
ates.’’* He further says, “I have dedicated this 
treatise to you, once my dear flock, now gracious 
lords. and dear brethren in Christ, in order that I 
might attest my gratitude for the trust and honour 
you have shown me,’’’ and signs himself, “* Ever 
your obedient servant.”’ * 

But the change which he made, however it was 
caused, and however he and others regarded it; was 
one of the providential preparations for the part he 
was destined to play in history. 

Einsiedeln lies on a plain which extends south- 
wards from near the Lake of Zurich. It is distant 
only twenty miles from Zurich,* in a south-east- 
erly direction, but much off the beaten track of 
travel, requiring a special journey. It was in two 
other respects a great contrast to Glarus. It was 
a small place and it lacked the striking mountain 
scenery surrounding Glarus. But it was then as 
to-day the most famous place of pilgrimage in 
Switzerland and all Southern Germany, in conse- 
quence of the divinely dedicated shrine of the 
Virgin Mary, where miracles were and are believed 
to be wrought. Plenary indulgence also rewards 
the worshippers there. Over the entrance of the 


eto} STAs 
cole any. 4 Zwingli calls it a six hours’ journey (vii., 59). 


1518] At Einsiedeln 99 


monastery appeared the legend: ‘“‘ Here is full remis- 
sion of all sins both from the guilt and punishment.”’ 
The pilgrims came in large numbers and, as they 
were of all grades, there was a fine opportunity for a 
man of Zwingli’s temperament and disposition to 
make wide and desirable acquaintance. This was 
precisely what happened. And so his fame spread 
as it might not otherwise have done. 

The story of Einsiedeln' is worth repeating. The 
name comes from ‘‘ einsiedler,’’ a hermit; hence 
the Latin name for the place is ‘* Emztarum Coeno- 
bium.’’ Meinrad was the hermit from whom it de- 
rived its origin. He was a native of Rottenburg, 
twenty-five miles south-west of Stuttgart, but was 
educated in the famous Benedictine abbey school 
on the island of Reichenau in the Untersee, three 
and one half miles north-west of Constance, and after 
a brief experience as a secular priest became a monk 
in that monastery. At some later date he was sent 
to teach at the abbey’s branch school at Oberbol- 
lingen, on the Lake of Zurich, near its eastern end 
and twenty miles from Zurich. Across the lake 
were mountains and dense forests, and as he day by 
day gazed towards them he was seized with the de- 
sire to bury himself in those solitudes and so cut 
himself off from contact with men. Accordingly he 
crossed the lake in the year 829 and made his way 
to the pass of the Etzel, a small mountain a couple 
of miles south of the Lake of Zurich and some 


1 The information here given about Einsiedeln comes mainly from 
the scholarly book of Odilo Ringholz, Wallfahrtsgeschichte unserer 
lieben Frau von Einsiedelm, Freiburg im Breisgau, 1896. 


100 Huldreich Zwingli [1516- 


twenty miles south-east of Zurich, and lived on the 
spot for some seven years. He had the same ex- 
perience which distressed many other hermits — his 
solitude was invaded —so he removed to another 
spot in the ‘‘ Gloomy Forest,’’ as the forest was 
called, to the plain where Einsiedeln is built, about 
four miles south of his first abode. There beside 
a spring he put up his hut and a little place for 
prayer. On Tuesday, January 21, 861, he was vis- 
ited by two men who, probably under the misap- 
prehension that he had hidden treasure, murdered 
him. Forty years later there were a number of 
hermits living where the martyr had fallen. Thirty 
years more and the huts had been abandoned for a 
regular conventual building. In 948 the chapel of 
Meinrad was enclosed ina church. Conrad, Bishop 
of Constance, in whose diocese Einsiedeln was till 
the beginning of this century, came down to de- 
dicate this enclosing church to the Virgin Mary and 
the holy martyr Mauritius, and at the same time 
St. Meinrad’s chapel to the Virgin Mary. But at 
midnight preceding the day set for the dedication, 
(Thursday, Sept. 14, 948) while the Bishop and 
some of the monks were praying in the church, they 
heard angelic voices singing in the chapel the de- 
dicatory service. Consequently he refused the next 
day to undertake the duty for which he had come, 
as far as the chapel was concerned, declaring that 
it had already been consecrated and in a sublime 
manner. But, over-persuaded, he proceeded to 
read the service. Scarcely had he begun, when a 
voice was heard by all, saying, “‘ Stop, brother, 


awe 


1518] At Einsiedeln IOI 


God has already dedicated the chapel.’’ The 
speaker was the Angel of the Covenant, the Lord 
Jesus Christ, so the dedication is known as the 
Angelic Dedication; in German ‘‘ Engelwethe,’’ 
meaning by “‘ angel’’ the Lord Jesus Christ.’ 

The fact of the Angelic Dedication is attested 
in the alleged Bull of Leo VIII., which is dated 
Nov. 11, 964, or only eighteen years after the al- 
leged event; but unfortunately there is some doubt 
about the Bull’s genuineness.” The Bull, whether 
genuine or not, promises plenary indulgence to those 
who visit the chapel, and so has played an import- 
ant part in attracting visitors. 

The legend respecting the Angelic Dedication can 
be traced in writing to the first half of the fourteenth 
century.” According to this writing God the Son 
came down from heaven attended by the Virgin 
Mary, angels, and saints, and the angels and saints 
took part in the dedicatory services. Pilgrimages 
to the chapel date surely from the middle of the 
tenth century. The number of pilgrims fell off in 
the opening years of the Reformation but rose 
again. It is claimed that now one hundred and 
fifty thousand visit the shrine annually, mostly 
from Switzerland and South Germany. The chapel 
in consequence of its supposed miraculous dedica- 
tion was considered particularly sacred to the 
Virgin Mary.* Over it, so as to enclose it, was 

1So Ringholz derives the term, pp. 311, 312. 

? Ringholz, p. 312. 3 Ringholz, p. 350. 

4“ More gracious than elsewhere is here the help of the Godhead ; 


And more on her altars the presence of Mary works wonders.” 
Glarean, Descriptio de situ Helvetia. 


University of Southern Calitorad 


102 Huldreich Zwingli [x516- 


built a church, and around the church other ecclesi- 
astical buildings. Into its famous monastery down 
to the Reformation only the higher nobility found 
entrance, as the dean, Albrecht von Bonstetten, 
writes in 1494: ‘* This church and monastery should 
be a place of refuge to princes, counts, barons, and 
heads ef societies, according to the documents and 
immemorial usage.’’’ It is not to be wondered 
at that the members of a monastery thus recruited 
showed small interest in spiritual affairs. Fewer and 
fewer would assume the responsibility of member- 
ship in the chapter. So at the beginning of the 
sixteenth century only two such members are met 
with, the princely abbot Conrad III. of Hohenrech- 
berg and the administrator, Diebold von Geroldseck. 
It was to the latter that Zwingli applied for the 
position of minister at Einsiedeln.’ 

The chapel of Meinrad has always been of course 
the central point of the pilgrim’s attention. This 
chapel, when Zwingli saw it, was not in the shape 
in which it was when the alleged Angelic Dedication 

1 Ringholz, p. I9. 

* It is every way likely that Zwingli directly or indirectly applied 
to Diebold, as Ringholz asserts (p. 19). The two were acquainted, 
and Zwingli had already made a sufficient reputation as a preacher 
to be welcomed there. In 1527 Diebold left Einsiedeln, having 
come over to the Reformation. He lived henceforth in Zurich, 
and went forth with Zwingli to the fatal field of Cappel, and there 
died at his side. . 

Abbot Conrad staid, however, in the Roman Catholic Church, 
but resigned his office in 1526 on account of old age. Though the 
Reformation did not entirely disrupt the monastery, it was a stagger- 


ing blow, from which, however, it recovered, and Einsiedeln is to- 
day a purely Roman Catholic centre. 


1518] At Einsiedeln 103 


took place, for that chapel had been accidentally 
burnt in 1465, and a new one built the next year, 
using the old walls which had survived the fire. In 
1617 it was covered with marble and otherwise 
_ decorated. In 1798 the French destroyed it and 
scattered its materials through the village, but they 
were regathered, and the present graceful structure 
erected on the site of the former chapel. Over the 
old altar of the chapel from time immemorial there 
has stood a figure of the Virgin and Child. It is 
now, and has long been, covered with gorgeous 
vestments. When these are removed it is revealed 
that the figure is of wood; the Virgin wears a simple 
single garment extending to the feet and bound 
around the waist with a narrow girdle; while the 
child is entirely nude. The child is carried on the 
left arm and hand. His right hand is raised in 
blessing; his left presses gently to his bosom a little 
bird which lightly pecks his finger—a representation 
of the miracle of making the sparrows out of clay 
told of the infant Jesus in the Apocryphal gospels.’ 
The face and hands of the Virgin and the entire 
body of the child are now painted black, but origin- 
ally they were flesh-coloured. It is not known 
when or where the figure originated. It is first men- 
tioned in the year 1315.” 


1 Pseudo-Matthew, chap. xxvii. ; Gospel of Thomas, first Greek 
form, 2; second Greek form, 3; Latin form, chap. iv.; Infancy of 
the Saviour, 36. 

? Ringholz, p. 35. Ringholz does not seem to be willing to repeat 
the old stories of its miraculous origin, but he has full faith in its 
wonder-working qualities. One sees in the church to-day crutches 


104 Huldreich Zwingli [1516- 


The Angelic Dedication of the chapel said to 
have taken place in the year 948 was originally com- 
memorated every year; but from the middle of 
the fifteenth century only every seven years by a 
fourteen days’ festival; from the beginning of the 
sixteenth century only when the 14th of September 
fell on Sunday, and fourteen days thereafter. This 
is the present custom. Such is called the major 
celebration. But every year on September 14th there 
is a celebration lasting a single day, whatever may 
be the day of the week. The year Zwingli went to 
Einsiedeln, viz., 1516, the 14th of September fell 
on Sunday, and so there was that year the major 
celebration, and he went to Ejinsiedeln to celebrate 
it. Such a celebration did not occur during 1517 or 
1518. On each of the two or sometimes on the three 
Sundays of the great festival there are two sermons, 
and these would fall to Zwingli to deliver as preacher 
of the abbey. Before the Reformation the selection 
of preacher was simply on the idea of having the 
best available talent, but since then choice has been 
generally limited to the preaching orders. The 
subject of the sermons is assigned by the abbot, 
who in 1522 appointed the Gospel of Luke. Dis- 
putations on theological and philosophical things 


and other appliances which have been left by those who were cured 
at the shrine. Pope Julius, in his Bull, ‘‘ Pastoris Afterni,” testifies 
to such cures (Ringholz, p. 343). In Zwingli’s day they had no 
questioners. But in this sceptical age more is required than simply 
the exhibition of casts or surgical inventions to secure belief in the 
tales of cure, and those seen in the church on August 20, 1897, were 
rather old, as if there had not been any cases of cure there recently. 





VIRGIN AND CHILD IN CHAPEL AT EINSIEDELN, 


er oe Parr 
i renee 





1518] At Einsiedeln 105 


were a feature of these festivals. On every Sunday 
of the year and on all festival days of the Church 
there was preaching and, as Einsiedeln was always 
full of strangers, the preachers were sure of an 
audience and to have reports of their sermons car- 
ried far away. 

The town of Einsiedeln now numbers some nine 
thousand inhabitants, mostly engaged in minister- 
ing to the needs of pilgrims. It doubtless pre- 
sented the same general appearance in Zwingli’s 
day that it does at present. Going thither to 
escape the petty but persistent persecution of the 
French party he found himself congenially situ- 
ated. The library of the monastery was already 
large, and he had means put at his disposal to in- 
crease it.’ Both the abbot and the administrator 
were friendly to the New Learning—the latter was 
indeed a man of some scholarship’; and there were 
constantly coming thither scholars and prominent 
persons from all parts. His duties as preacher did 
not claim all his time, and as he had the true stu- 
dent’s insatiable thirst for knowledge, he made the 
most of his opportunities, and laid in a considerable 
increment to those stores of learning he had already 
collected. It was in this Einsiedeln period that he 
always dated his arrival at evangelical truth. He 
was at all events, then, confirmed in that rejection 
of the scholastic method and theology which were 


1See the letter of Glareanus, who acted as his literary agent, of 
October 24, 1516 (vii., 17), Zwingli alludes to his facilities for 
study. 

°VII., 59. 


106 Huldreich Zwingli [1516- 


in vogue, and had turned to the Bible as the suffi- 
cient revelation of the will of God, and used the 
Fathers as helpful but fallible interpreters of the 
Word. 

In August, 1518, the Franciscan monk, Bern- 
hardin Samson, or as he signed himself in his let- 
ters of indulgence, Sanson, made his appearance in 
Switzerland as the papally commissioned seller of 
indulgences to the Swiss. As he entered the canton 
Schwyz in which Einsiedeln is located, it is probable 
that he came to Einsiedeln. But Hugo von Lan- 
denburg, the Bishop of Constance, and John Faber, 
or Fabri, his vicar-general, were both much opposed 
to the traffic in indulgences and incited Zwingli to 
preach against it, and Samson left the canton. An 
indulgence, properly speaking, is a remission of the 
temporal consequences of sins. The saints are in 
Catholic theology supposed to have performed good 
works far in excess of those needed for their sal- 
vation. These good works constitute a treasury 
upon which the Pope can draw at will, and such 
drafts are honoured in the shape of lessening or al- 
together obliterating the punishment in purgatory. 
But though it was entirely contrary to their alleged 
instructions, and certainly to the official teaching, 
it is the fact that the sellers of indulgence often so 
represented the matter that the purchasers of the 
article supposed that they were buying exemption 
from the punishment of those sins which the Church 
theology declared, were damning, and also buying 
permission to commit sins! The sale of indulgences 
was immensely increased by this misconception, 


1518] At Einsiedeln 107 


and the Pope for whose benefit ostensibly the traffic 
was carried on profited thereby. To Zwingli the 
business appeared amusing. He had no apprecia- 
tion apparently of the enormity of the conduct of 
the Pope in selling what he should have rejoiced to 
give his subjects —viz., the lessening or extinction 
of purgatorial pains in themselves and others. In 
writing Beatus Rhenanus he gave a laughable de- 
scription of Samson and showed how he used all the 
arts of the auctioneer in the disposal of his wares.’ 


1 This letter has been lost. Our knowledge of it and its contents 
comes from Rhenanus, who, in his reply, dated Basel, December 6, 
1518 (vii., 57 sg.), strikes a deeper note, shows a more earnest spirit, 
and bears welcome testimony to the quality of Zwingli’s preaching. 
He thus speaks: ‘‘I have laughed a great deal at the peddler of in- 
dulgences [Samson], whom you depicted so vividly in your letter. 
They give letters to the leaders in a war for those who shall perish 
in battle. How petty and unworthy of the representatives of the 
Pope these things are! What will they not think up so that Italy 
may get our money! And yet I do not consider this is a laughing 
matter, but rather one for tears. For nothing grieves me more than 
to see a Christian people laden with ceremonies that do not reach 
the heart of the matter or that are rather empty nothings. And I 
see no cause for it except that the priests, deceived by those mule- 
driving sophistical theologians, teach heathen and Jewish doctrines, 
I am now speaking of the rank and file of the priesthood. For it 
does not escape me that you and those like you bring forth to the 
people the pure philosophy of Christ, straight from the fountain, 
uncorrupted by interpretation of Scotist [follower of Duns Scotus, 
1260-1308] or Gabrielist [follower of Gabriel Biel, 1425-1495], but 
expounded by Augustine, Ambrose, Cyprian, Jerome, faithfully and 
correctly. But those people standing in a position where whatever 
is said the people at large think is true, bleat out nonsense about the 
power of the Pope, remission, purgatory, counterfeit miracles by the 
saints, restitution contracts, vows, pains of the damned, Antichrist. 
But you in preaching to your congregation show the whole doctrine 


108 Huldreich Zwingli [1516- 


Zwingli in 1523 thus describes his preaching at 
Ejinsiedeln: 


‘*T began to preach the gospel of Christ in the year 
1516 before anyone in my locality had so much as heard 
the name of Luther; for I never left the pulpit without 
taking the words of the gospel as used in the mass serv- 
ice of the day and expounding them by means of the 
Scriptures; although at first I relied much upon the 
Fathers as expositors and explainers.”’ * 


of Christ briefly displayed as in a picture; how Christ was sent 
down to the earth by God to teach us the will of the Father, to show 
us that this world, z. e., riches, honour, authority, pleasures, and all 
that kind of thing, are to be contemned so that the heavenly country 
can be sought with the whole heart, to teach us peace and concord 
and the attractive community of all possession (for Christianity is 
nothing else)—even as Plato dreamed of in his Republic, for he is to 
be numbered among the great prophets ; to take away from us fool- 
ish affections of earthly affairs concerning country, parents, relatives, 
health, and other possessions, to declare that poverty and disadvant- 
ages in this life are not real evils.” Very likely this letter is not to 
be taken as a full description either of monastic preaching or of 
Zwingli’s. But it presents doubtless the contrast between them ; 
how the monks discoursed on Church teaching in reliance upon the 
scholastics where Zwingli relied upon the great Fathers, handled 
themes of vital importance, and based his doctrine upon the Bible 
itself. Another witness to the biblical quality of his preaching at 
that time is Caspar Hedio, subsequently the Reformer of Strassburg, 
who wrote from Basel to Zwingli on November 6, 1519 (vii., 89), in 
the following very complimentary terms respecting a sermon he heard 
him preach at Einsiedeln at Pentecost, apparently of that year, 1519, 
from Luke, v., 17-26, the story of the paralytic: ‘‘I was greatly 
charmed by an address of yours, so elegant, learned, and weighty, 
fluent, discerning, and evangelical, such a one as plainly recalled the 
energy of the old theologians, . . . That address, I say, so 
inflamed me that I began at once to feel a-deep affection for Zwingli, 
to respect and admire him.” e255 


1518] At Einsiedeln 109 


This sort of preaching was so great a contrast to 
that ordinarily heard, that it must have occasioned 
remark. That it was popular was shown in his sub- 
sequent call to Zurich. Yet the sticklers for or- 
thodoxy must have scented heresy in his implied 
contempt or low valuation of the scholastic and 
monastic topics for sermons, and perhaps it was his 
protection that he had so warm a friend in the ad- 
ministrator, and that the abbot was such a perfect 
indifferentist in matters of religious controversy.’ 
The papal chaplain of the monastery, Zink,’ was 
also a friend of the New Learning, and defended 
Zwingli’s practices. 

Einsiedeln was frequently visited by ecclesiastical 
dignitaries, and as they were off duty they were the 
more inclined to discuss matters informally and 
candidly. Zwingli thus alludes in 1525 to his inter- 
course with some of them: 


‘*T will call upon the witness of living persons. Be- 
fore the dissension [7. ¢., the Reformation] arose I have 
spoken with prominent cardinals, bishops, and prelates, 
and discussed with them errors in doctrine and warned 
them that they must proceed to do away with abuses if 
they would not themselves perish in the great upheaval. 
To the Lord Cardinal of Sitten [Matthew Schinner] I 
testified eight years ago [¢. ¢., in 1517] at Einsiedeln, 
and afterward at Zurich often, and in the clearest lan- 
guage, that the papacy had a false foundation, and sup- 
ported the same from Scripture.’’ ® 


' See the story in Bullinger, i., 9. 
? Also spelled Zinck, Zingg. 
D1 ihge, 88 Gf 


110 Huldreich Zwingli [1516- 


Bullinger also tells how Zwingli at Einsiedeln ex- 
horted Hugo, Bishop of Constance, to give free 
course to the preaching of the pure and clear word 
of God and to remove gross abuses and supersti- 
tions, and that he made similar remarks to Cardinal 
Schinner, the papal Legate in Switzerland.’ Of 
course, he knew that neither of these persons had 
any authority to do anything of the kind.* Of more 
immediate advantage to him was the instruction in 
Greek which he received from the famous Italian 
scholar, Paul Bombasius, the secretary of Cardinal 
Schinner.* ; 

However much Zwingli might speak of the abuses 
of the Church, the idea of separating from her on 
account of them never entered his head. In fact 
in so talking he was like many others who had been 
talking and talking for nigh a hundred years. Little 
did Rome care for such talk. And Rome considered 
that so long as this young Swiss preacher took the 
papal pension, however reluctantly, he would not 
do much against her. Still, as he was plainly a man 


1 Bullinger, i., 10. 

2 This fact did not prevent him subsequently from addressing a 
formal petition to the Bishop on the same subjects. See p. 166. 

3 There is a letter from Bombasius to Zwingli, dated March 2, 
1518 (vii., 35), which is evidence of acquaintance between them. On 
April 27, 1518 (vii., 42), Valentine Tschudi, writing from Paris, con- 
gratulates Zwingli upon securing so learned and skilful a teacher in 
Greek. But he does not give his name. It is, however, a common 
conjecture that he meant Bombasius, and as Zwingli was by this 
time quite well advanced in Greek it is not unlikely that Bombasius 
and he read some Greek together, and in this sense Bombasius might 
be said to be his teacher. 






rE i a THETA a inna 








2 


HARON 


i 


AS ee 
 MIWZEER SS 
MW 


ha [MV p94 
eNuiietl4 i 


Kain” “ge SB 
/ Bye |] MA be aie ey 








EINSIEDELN, FROM A CONTEMPORARY DRAWING. 





1518] At Einsiedeln 111 


worth getting more closely bound to the papal chair, 
a rising man and already a power, the papal Nuncio, 
Antony Pucci, writing from Zurich on September 1, 
1518, announced to him that the Pope, in recogni- 
tion of his ability and learning, had made him an 
acolyte chaplain, which was to be sure not a very 
exalted honour, and at the same time had granted 
his request to be released from certain ecclesiastical 
censures.’ What answer Zwingli made to this letter 


! The letter is as follows : 
“Appointment of Master Huldreich Zwingliias Papal Acolyte 
Chaplain, September 1, 1518. 


** Antonio Pucci, Subdean of the church of Florence, Priest of the 
Apostolic Chamber, Delegate with power of Legate de latere to the 
Swiss of the ancient Great League of Upper Germany, to our IIul- 
dreich Zwingli, beloved in Christ, Rector of the parish church of the 
village of Glarus in the diocese of Constance, Acolyte Chaplain of 
our Most Holy Lord, the Pope, and the Apostolic See, eternal salva- 
tion in the Lord. Shining in virtues and merits, and commended by 
our observation and the reports of your laudable reputation, you 
have won such favour in the sight of our Lord, the Pope, and the 
Apostolic See that, watching with fatherly interest over your charac- 
ter as a man of letters, we are graciously pleased to raise you toa 
title of especial honour, according to the powers granted to us by 
our aforesaid Lord, the Pope. That, therefore, you may effectively 
see to what the affectionate regard of our heart prompts us, we 
desire, in view of your aforesaid merits as a Master of Arts, to 
bestow praise upon you and adorn you with a title and prerogative 
of special honour, and, in case you are involved in any way in any 
ecclesiastical judgments, censures, or penalties, of excommunication, 
suspension, interdict, or of other nature, imposed by law or by man 
upon any occasion or for any cause, we absolve you from these, so 
far at least as these presents are concerned, and we decree you ab- 
solved, and, inclined thereto by your petition to that effect, and in 
virtue of the apostolic authority which we enjoy, granted to us by 
our Most Holy Father and Lord in Christ, Leo X., by divine provi- 
dence Pope, we hereby receive you as Acolyte Chaplain of our Lord, 


112 Huldreich Zwingli [1516- 


is unknown. But he must have been glad to be re- 
lieved of the censures, whatever they were. 


the Pope, and the Apostolic See, and graciously enroll you in the 
number and society of the other Acolyte Chaplains of our Lord, 
the Pope, and of this See, granting you all the same the right to use, 
hold, and enjoy fully and freely each and every privilege, preroga- 
tive, honour, exemption, favour, freedom, immunity, and indulg- 
ence which other Acolyte Chaplains of our- Lord, the Pope, and of 
this See, use, hold, and enjoy, or shall in any way have the right to 
use, hold, and enjoy hereafter, apostolic enactments and ordinances 
and all other obstacles whatever to the contrary notwithstanding. 
So press on, therefore, from good to better in zeal for virtue, that in 
the sight of our Lord, the Pope, and in our sight, you shall ever 
establish yourself as worthier of greater rewards, and that our Lord, 
the Pope, himself, and ourselves may rightly be the more urgently 
impelled to showing you richer favour and honour. In witness 
whereof we have ordered and caused these presents to be made and 
our seal to be attached in token of confirmation. Given at Zurich 
in the diocese of Constance the first day of September in the year of 
our Lord’s incarnation, one thousand five hundred and eighteen, and 
of the pontificate of our aforesaid Lord, the Pope, the sixth. 

““Free by order of the Reverend Lord Delegate. 

‘*G. VON FALK (?). M. BRETINI. M. BRETINI, Acting Secretary. 

“*Jo. NUCHELEN.” 

A seal encased in metal depends from the document, arms and a 
head, encircled by the words: ‘‘-++- Antoni Pucci Sedis Aplice 
Proton” (‘‘ Antonio Pucci, Protonotary of the Apostolic See”’). 

(On the back in another hand): ‘* Appointment as Acolyte for 
Master Huldreich Zwingli.” 

On August 24, 1518, Pucci sent him the letter announcing his ap- 
pointment (vii., 48, 49), but the above is the formal appointment, 
translated from Egli, Azalecta Reformatoria, i, 19-21. 

On March 2, 1518, or months before Pucci’s letter, Bombasius in 
the letter already alluded to (vii., 35) says: ‘‘ Concerning your acolyte 
chaplaincy I will do what you have requested in writing as soon as 
our abbreviator has leisure.” The abbreviator is the papal secretary 
who would have the making out of appointments. So this remark 
of Bombasius looks very much like an allusion to Zwingli’s appli- 
cation for the position of acolyte chaplain. 


1518] At Einsiedeln 113 


Zwingli had never looked upon his position at 
Einsiedeln as more than temporary. And if the 
times had been propitious he would gladly have re- 
turned to Glarus, as has been already said. For 
one thing his salary was much smaller at Einsiedeln 
than it had been at Glarus. In 1517 he learned 
that a call would be extended to him from Winter- 
thur, an important town sixteen miles north-east 
from Zurich. Desiring to accept it, he consulted 
his “‘ superiors’’ at Glarus, as he was still their 
pastor. But for some reason they refused to relieve 
him. So he wrote to Winterthur to prevent them 
from calling him, but on the very day he wrote, the 
call from them was sent and the two letters must 
have crossed.’ 

The Zwingli correspondence of the period calls 
for no special remark except as it relates to the call 
to Zurich. It has the same general characteristics 


1This fact would not be found out if the dates given the letters 
were not translated into the ordinary figures. Many, perhaps most 
of the letters in the Zwingli correspondence are dated either in class- 
ical fashion by ides, kalends, and the like, or by reference to saints’ 
days. Thus Zwingli’s letter in question is dated ‘‘ Friday after SS. 
Simon and Jude” (vii., 30, or 32), and the Winterthur letter is dated 
‘Friday before All Saints’ day” (vii., 32). But by reference to the 
Roman Church calendar it is discovered that the first date is October 
30th, and as All Saints’ Day is on November Ist, which that year 
came on Sunday, the Friday before was October 30th ; so both letters 
were written on the same day. The determination of the day of the 
week upon which any event occurred, of which we know its year, 
month, and day, can be learned without a particle of trouble by means 
of the very ingenious ‘‘ Perfect Calendar” prepared by Henry Fitch, 
and published by the Funk & Wagnalls Company, New York. Some- 
er information is important, and it is always interesting. 


114 Huldreich Zwingli [1516- 


as that of the former period. It is that of a Human- 
ist with broad sympathies. Zwingli was probably 
pretty closely held at Einsiedeln, yet it appears that 
he made a visit to Baden, fourteen miles north of 
Zurich, during 1517.’ 


Excursus on Zwingli’s Papal Pension. 
o 


Bullinger says (i., 8) that the Pope (Julius II.) gave Zwingli a pen- 
sion, ‘‘ for the purchase of books.” But this was a sort of euphemism, 
and was understood on both sides as binding him to some extent to 
the papal chair, for the Pope was not in the habit of giving pensions 
to men like Zwingli out of charity or admiration. Yet since Zwingli 
was then a loyal papalist he could with perfect propriety and in all 
good conscience accept it. The year of its first bestowal was prob- 
ably 1512-13. But when he came out as a severe critic of the papacy, 
as he did in 1517, then his acceptance was not proper, as he himself 
allows in the passages to be quoted. But he continued to take the 
papal pension till 1520, when it had become a public scandal and 
source of trouble, as his enemies were constantly throwing it in his 
teeth. Why he took it was his poverty, which has been often pleaded 
in excuse for similar action, Chronologically, the first bit of writing 
which can be quoted in which he alludes to his fault in continuing to 
receive the pension is the dedication to the sermon on the Virgin 
Mary, which he published in 1522. He says: ‘‘ My connection 
with the Pope of Rome is now a thing of several years back. At the 
time it began it seemed to me a proper thing to take his money and 
to defend his opinions, but when I realised my sin I parted company 
with him entirely” (i., 86). Next and more explicit was his confes- 
sion in the ‘‘ Exposition of the Articles” of the Zurich Disputation of 
January, 1523: ‘‘I had for three years previous [to 1520] been 
preaching the Gospel with earnestness” ; on which account I received 


' See vii., 29. On the portion of Zwingli’s life prior to his going 
to Zurich there is a Bachelor of Theology thesis by Ernest Christen, 
Zwingk avant la Réforme de Zurich (Geneva, 1899), which is in- 
tended to be the first part of a complete life of Zwingli, It has 
been of service in these pages. 

* Elsewhere he claims to have preached the Gospel since his Ein- 
siedeln days (i., 253 ; see above, pp. 36, 37). 


1518] At Einsiedeln DLS 


from the papal cardinals, bishops, and legates, with whom the city 
has abounded, many friendly and earnest counsels, with threats, or 
with promises of greater gifts and of benefices. These, however, 
have had no effect upon me. On the other hand, in 1517 I declined 
to receive the pension of fifty gulden, which they gave me yearly 
(yes, they wanted to make it one hundred gulden, but I would not 
hear to it), but they would not stop it until in 1520 I renounced 
it in writing. (I confess here my sin before God and all the world, 
that before 1516 I hung mightily upon the Pope and considered it 
becoming in me to receive money from the papal treasury. But 
when the Roman representatives warned me not to preach anything 
against the Pope, I told them in express and clear words that they 
had better not believe that I would on account of their money sup- 
press a syllable of the truth.) After I had renounced the pension 
they saw that I would have nothing more to do with them, so they 
procured and betrayed (to the Senate), through a spiritual father, a 
Dominican monk, the manuscript containing in one letter my renun- 
ciation and receipt of payment, with a view of driving me out of 
Zurich. But the scheme failed, because the Honourable Senate 
knew well that I had not exalted the Pope in my discourses ; so that 
the money had not affected anything in that direction ; also that I in 
no way advanced their plans and had twice declined their pension ; 
also that no one could from the past teaching accuse me of breaking 
my oath or impairing my honour. On these grounds the Senate de- 
clared me innocent ” (i., 354). Confirmation of these statements of 
Zwingli is given in this letter of Francis Zink, the papal chaplain at 
Einsiedeln: ‘‘ A little time ago when I heard that you [the Senate of 
Zurich, to which body he is writing] were about to take up the matter 
of the people’s priest, Huldreich Zwingli, I met him twice in order 
to give my testimony. But now that I am sick and cannot come in 
person before your honourable body, I write to tell exactly all about 
it. . . . MHuldreich Zwingli received for some years, while at 
Glarus, at Einsiedeln, and finally at Zurich, a yearly allowance from 
the Pope ; but the sole reason why he has done so is his poverty and 
need, especially while with you at Zurich. And assuredly he would 
have lacked provision for his family if this support had been taken 
from him. . . . Nevertheless, this was so great a cross to him 
that he desired to resign his position with you, having it in mind to 
come back to Einsiedeln. . . . Moreover, it is perfectly evident 
that he has never been moved a finger’s breadth from the Gospel by 


116 Huldreich Zwingli [1516-1518] 


the favour of the Pope, emperor, or noble, but always proclaims the 
truth and preaches it faithfully among the people. For if he had 
permitted himself to be turned aside to serve the interests of the 
papacy in greater measure he might have received one hundred florins 
a year, not to speak of benefices at Basel or Chur, but none of these 
enticed him. I was present when the Legate Pucci was frankly told 
by him that he would not for money advance the papal interests, but 
would preach and teach the truth to the people in the way which 
seemed best to him. Under the circumstances he left it entirely to 
the Legate whether he should grant the pension or not. Hearing 
this the Legate smoothed him down, saying that even if he [Zwingli] 
was not inclined to befriend the Pope, still he [the Legate] would 
befriend him: for he had not made the offer to turn him aside from 
his purpose [to preach the truth], but had had in view his need and 
how he might live in greater comfort and purchase books, etc. . . . 
I wished, therefore, to make this clear to you, not that I might 
absolve Master Huldreich Zwingli as if he had not received subsi- 
dies, but that you might know how he received them, and at what 
instance it was brought about, that you might see it from the right 
standpoint.” (This letter of Zink’s is quoted in the note to vii., 179.) 
Zwingli was brought before the Senate to explain his inconsistency 
in taking the Pope’s money while attacking him, but this letter of 
Zink’s cleared him and he was not forced toresign. As Zwingli had 
no adequate support from his people’s priest’s office he felt the loss 
of the pension, but in the next year, 1521, he was made a canon in 
the cathedral and that made up for the lack of it and more (See 
vii., 182 sg., and p. 151). 








EINSIEDELN, CHAPEL OF THE VIRGIN AS IN ZWINGLI’S DAY. 





CHAPTER 1V 


OPENING YEAR IN ZURICH 


1519 


N Thursday, October 28, 1518, Oswald My- 
conius, then teaching the classics at Zurich, 

wrote Zwingli that the place of people’s priest at 
the Great Minster of Zurich was vacant, and that 
he ardently longed to see Zwingli in it. He takes 
it that Zwingli knows all about the vacancy, and 
desires merely to learn whether he would accept it 
if it were offered to him.’ The position was an in- 
fluential but poorly paid one. To it was attached 
the duty of preaching inthe cathedral. There were 
in Zurich at this time three parishes, each with a 
people’s priest’; that of the Gross Miinster (Great 
Minster) was the most important, as it took in the 
part of the city on the left bank of the Limmat, the 
swift stream which empties into the Lake of Zurich ; 
those of the Frau Miinster (Minster of Our Lady) 
and of St. Peter were both on the right bank of the 
Limmat. Zwingli was asked about the first of 
these. The vacancy had occurred in consequence 
of promotions in the chapter of the cathedral,* and 
2 The three constituted according to Zwingli (ili., 9) the board of 
bishops in Zurich. The office at the Gross Miinster dated from 


1177 (see S. Voegelin, Das alte LZiirich, 2d ed., Zurich, 1878, i., 
260.) >V IL. 52, note, 


117 


118 Huldreich Zwingli [1519 


could scarcely have escaped Zwingli’s attention, as 
he was looking about for a desirable settlement. 
After a short delay Zwingli replied to Myconius that 
on the next Wednesday, which was apparently No- 
vember 17th, he would be in Zurich, and would ~ 
discuss the matter further... He made the visit 
doubtless, and consented to be a candidate.’ 

On December 2d, Zwingli wrote Myconius again, 
and showed that the appearance of a Swabian as a 
rival candidate had excited his jealous ire. He de- 
scribes the Swabian in abusive and contemptuous 
language. Yet that he counted on getting the posi- 
tion is revealed by his remark that he was determ- 
ined to begin his preaching in the cathedral with an 
exposition of the Gospel of Matthew as a whole, — 
““a book,’’ he says, “‘ which is unknown to the Ger- 
mans,’’—in distinction to speaking upon those por- 
tions of it which might be in the gospel for the day. 
He sends greetings to prominent people, among 
them Cardinal Sander, dean of Warsaw, and exhorts 
Myconius to continue in his efforts on his behalf.» 
On December 3d, Myconius writes him that his 
friends in Zurich were many, but that he was ad- 


1 The letter (vii., 52), is dated ‘‘ Divee Virginis’”’ which was appar- 
ently the Feast of the Patronage of the Blessed Virgin Mary, which 
is.celebrated on the second Sunday in November, which came that 
year on the 14th, so Wednesday following would be the 17th. 

* Zwingli’s letter to Winterthur (vii., 29) shows that congregations 
in Catholic Switzerland in the sixteenth century desiring pastors 
heard candidates, just as American congregations commonly do 
to-day! But there is no record that he ever preached as a candidate 
at Zurich. 

ON ANGE ey 


1519] Opening Year in Zurich 119 


versely criticised because he was so fond of music,’ 
and because he was so given to worldly pleasures. 
Myconius had not found it difficult to silence these 
objections. But another was more serious, viz., the 
story that he had been guilty of a foul wrong to the 
daughter of a prominent citizen of Einsiedeln, and 
Myconius implores Zwingli to give the lying tale 
prompt and emphatic denial.” Whether he wrote to 
Myconius on the subject is unknown, but he did write 
to Canon Utinger, who was apparently the leading 
man of the advocates of Zwingli in the cathedral 
chapter, and with this chapter the choice rested. 
The letter* in its tone shows that Zwingli was at 
the time far from being a saint, that he was lead- 
ing an unchaste life without any appreciation of its 
guilt, and that he was only anxious that his chances 
of election should not be injured by the report. As 
for the report itself, he exposes its entire falsity. 
His disclaimer was at once accepted as satisfactory, 
and when the election was held, on Saturday, De- 
cember 11th, he was the choice of the chapter by a 
VOLE Of 17 tor 77, 

On Sunday, December toth, at Glarus, he laid 
down his office as pastor there, and at the same time 


1 Zwingli was afterwards called in Roman Catholic circles ‘‘ the 
guitar player and evangelist upon the flute”—so Bullinger reports 
(f.5.(31): 

VA oss 

8 VII., 54-57, dated December 4, 1518. 

4 The date of the election is known from Cardinal Sander’s letter, 
dated December 7th (vii., 58), which informs him that the canons who 
favoured him were in the majority both in numbers and influence, 
and that the election would be held on the 11th, 


120 Huldreich Zwingli [1519 


nominated as his successor his former pupil, Valen- 
tine Tschudi.’ His place at Einsiedeln was given 
to another friend, on his recommendation — Leo 
Jud, to whom he wrote thus concerning the charge: 
‘“ The people over whom you are to be placed are 
single-minded and willingly hear Christ preached 
unto them, even by me as forerunner; the provision 
is ample, and the administrator [Diebold von Ger- 
oldseck] is a man of fair learning, himself most eager 
for it, and, above all, a lover of the learned.’’ ? 
The chief ruler and the council of the canton of 
Schwyz, in which Ejinsiedeln is located, politely 
expressed regret at his leaving the canton, but 
congratulated him upon his promotion, and then 
improved the opportunity to solicit his influence for 
a protégé of theirs!* All the preliminaries being 
arranged, Zwingli came to Zurich upon St. John the 
Evangelist’s day, which was that year on Monday, 
December 27th, and took up his temporary abode 
at the Hermit Hotel, which was at the southern an- 
gle of the city wall. He was well and honourably 


1¢Tn the year 1518, on Sunday before St. Thomas’s day [which 
that year came on Tuesday, December 21st], Master Huldreich 
Zwingli appeared in person before the authorities of the parish [of 
Glarus] and returned to them his benefice and asked them collectively 
to call Valentine Tschudi. Then out of honour and gratitude to 
[Zwingli] they called Valentine Tschudi” (J. H. Tschudi’s ‘‘ Chron-. 
icle of Glarus,” quoted in note to vii., 63; cf. 65). But Tschudi did 
not assume the position until October 12, 1522 (vii., 211, note). 
Consequently the very uncomplimentary language in which Zwingli’s 
successor at Glarus is described (vii,, 161 sgg., see p. 89) does not 
apply to Tschudi. 

2? VII., 59 (December 17, 1518). 

3 VII., 60 (December 21, 1518). 





ZWINGLI’S COMMUNION CUP AT GLARUS. 





1519] Opening Year in Zurich 121 


received, although there were many in Zurich not 
altogether favourable to him.‘ The news of his 
election naturally occasioned many congratulations 
from his friends and correspondents.’ 

One of the articles Zwingli brought with him from 
Einsiedeln was of his own manufacture, namely, a 
copy of the Pauline Epistles, called a “‘ Paulinus,”’ 
made from a copy of the first published Greek New 
Testament, that of Erasmus, printed by Froben in 
Basel, and published in 1516. He made the tran- 
script probably from the copy purchased for the 
library at Einsiedeln, at his suggestion.* On the 
last page of this transcript are several lines in Greek, 
of which the English translation is this: 


‘“These Epistles were written at [Einsiedeln] the 
Hermitage of the Blessed Mother of God, by Huldreich 
Zwingli of the Swiss Toggenburg in [the year] one thou- 
sand five hundred seven and ten after the Incarnation in 
the month Skirophorion [7. ¢., the 12th Attic month, cor- 
responding to the last part of June and the first part of 
July] happily ended.”’ * 


On the margin of this transcript he wrote annota- 
tions from Erasmus, Origen, Chrysostom, Ambrose, 


' Bullinger, i., 11. So Christoffel, Eng. trans., p. 35; cf. Voege- 
lin, Das alte Ziirich, i., 560; cf. ii., 387. It is supposed that he 
came down the lake by boat and landed near the spot just back of 
the Wasserkirche, where his statue now stands. 

DOf. Vil8 02) GON. 

’ This is at least probable, for his friend Glareanus in Basel acted 
as his literary agent, and speaks (vii., 17) of the monastery buying 
the works of Jerome. : 

4The Greek text and a translation appear in Dr. Schaff’s Church 


Fistory, Vil., 31. 


SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA SCHOOL 


122 Huldreich Zwingli [1519 


and Jerome. His object in making it was to have 
the Pauline Epistles in convenient form for carrying 
around and for memorisation, and he actually com- 
mitted them to memory.’ 

On Saturday, January I, 1519, he presented him- 
self to the assembled canons, and was formally in- 
ducted into his office as people’s priest. Much 
stress was laid upon his duty to preserve and in- 
crease the revenues of the cathedral.* In reply 
Zwingli thanked them for electing him, requested 
their prayers and the prayers of the congregation, 
and then announced that he would begin the next 
day the continuous exposition of the Gospel of 
Matthew, not according to the Fathers, but accord- 
ing to the Scriptures themselves. This announce- 
ment made a decided sensation, as it was a marked 
deviation from the practice of following the peri- 
copes and interpreting them patristically, and awak- 
ened some adverse criticism.* 

Of stalwart frame, above middle height, of a ruddy 
countenance and pleasing expression, he made a 
good impression upon spectators, and when he spoke 
he soon showed that he was an orator who could 
enchain the attention.* All Zurich, and indeed 
10 Myconius, p- 5. See Excursus I. at end of chapter. 

? Schuler, Zwingli’s Bildungsgeschichte, p. 227 sq. 

3 His example was followed elsewhere {vii., 120, 132). 

4 Kessler, Sabbata, ed. Goetzinger, i., 169. 

° The idea that Zwingli had a weak voice came apparently from 
this passage in a letter from his intimate friend, Myconius, dated 
Pentecost, 1520: ‘‘ They continue to vomit forth against Zwingli, 
not indeed poorly interpreting the truth, but wholly perverting it. 


Such news as this perhaps you hear from Loriti, for he was present 
at the banquet where such things were said; or from Grebel, to 


519] ~ Opening Year in Zurich 123 


all Switzerland, rang with his praise. And not 
only town people but the country folk also listened 
to him with delight. For the benefit of the latter 
he preached every Friday, which was market-day, 
in the market-place, and took the Psalms for con- 
tinuous exposition. On Sundays in the cathedral 
he expounded during his first four years, and in this 
order, Matthew, Acts, I. Timothy, Galatians, II. 
Timothy, I. and II. Peter, and Hebrews.’ 

From his correspondence and allusions in his 
works a correct knowledge may be derived as to his 
topics in the opening years of his residence in Zurich. 
He treated practical themes suggested naturally by 
the Scripture under consideration. Unbelief and 
superstition, repentance and reformation, crimes 
and vices, luxury and extravagance, were animad- 
verted on. He was emphatically the patriot in the 
pulpit, and preached to the times—against pension- 
aries and mercenaries, against the war spirit and the 
whom also they were blabbed out. At some future time you will 
be said to have a voice which is so indistinct that what you say is 
scarcely heard three steps away. But I see that this is a lie, since 
you are heard by all Switzerland. Perhaps the wine of Zurich has 
so opened the organ of the throat by its sharpness, that now you 
are referred to as a stentor in voice”’ (vii., 135). If Zwingli’s voice 
was originally weak he had probably strengthened it, but it is much 
more probable that he had a powerful voice, and so Myconius’s re- 
mark was a joke. At all events a correspondent in 1524 speaks of 
it as ‘‘sonorous” (vii., 328), and in his little book on Christian 
L£ducation Zwingli shows that he understood elocution (iv., 153, 
Eng. trans. by Reichenbach, pp. 74, 75). His gestures were com- 
mended by the dean of Lucerne, as well as his boldness in speaking 
(vii., 226). 

1 Bullinger, i., 31. This order is also given by Zwingli in his ser- 
mon on the ‘‘ Choice of Foods,” Appendix to this volume. 


124 Huldreich Zwingli [1519 


lying spirit, against the oppression of the poor and 
the making of widows and orphans, against the de- 
struction of Swiss freedom and Swiss honour.’ Such 
preaching had probably little that was spiritual and 
experimental, because his private life was not of the 
sort to make spiritual insight a possibility,—it is only 
the pure in heart that see God,—but it was lively 
and helpful, and made a sensation. Many did not 
like it, but the majority rallied around the brave © 
and honest man.’ 

Soon after his coming to Zurich, the indulgence 
seller, Bernhardin Samson, already mentioned in 
connection with Einsiedeln,* approached the city. 
He had been doing good business elsewhere. In 
Basel, Lupulus, Zwingli’s old teacher, had acted as 
his interpreter, and there he had reaped quite a 
harvest. It was currently reported that he was 
taking a great deal of money with him to the Pope. 
But he was coming to Zurich in no pleasant frame 
of mind. At Bremgarten, ten miles west of Zurich, 
the dekan, Henry Bullinger, the father of the suc- 
cessor of Zwingli, had forbidden him the church for 
his business, and in a rage he had turned away 
toward Zurich to lay his complaint before the Diet 
then sitting in that city. He must have been aware 
that Zwingli, who had opposed his methods at Ein- 
siedeln, was then there, and that his opposition to © 
him had the backing, if not the incitement, of the 


1See Excursus IJ. at end of chapter. 

* Bullinger has given (i., 12, 13) a description of his preaching, 
from which the above is in part taken. 

SP 106; 


1519] Opening Year in Zurich 125 


Bishop of Constance, and of his vicar-general.’ Still, 
Samson trusted to the Pope’s commission and his 
own arts to carry him through. Zwingli preached 
against him, and had the local hierarchy’s support. 
This fact strengthened the magistracy, and so when 
Samson had come to the very entrance to Zurich, 
and had put up at the Ox Hotel,” he was requested 
by the authorities to retire. . This, however, he did 
not do, but, on the contrary, he appeared before the 
Diet and demanded a hearing. He offered to be at 
the expense of a special messenger to Rome to bring 
back word as to the authenticity of his commission. 
The Diet allowed him to remain in the country till 
an answer could be received from Rome, but com- 
missioned Felix Grebel, who was going to Rome, to 
act as their representative and lay their complaints 
on the subject before the Pope, Leo X. 

In reply, the Pope, through his secretary, wrote 
on May I, I519: 


‘* Since His Holiness has lately learned from your let- 
ter that Brother Bernhardin [Samson] in preaching con- 
cerning indulgences has fallen into certain errors which 
cause His Holiness great astonishment, so I am instructed 
to announce to you in His name that if the brother is 
burdensome to you on account of his preaching you 


1 Regius, under date of March 2, 1519, had just informed Zwingli 
that the vicar-general’s ‘‘ stomach is turned at certain pardons and 
indulgences that a well-known Minorite is peddling all over Switzer- 
land” (vii., 69). 

2 This inn dated from 1465. Cf. Voegelin, Das alte Zurich, i., 
611; ii., 397. It was on the south side of Siblstrasse, near the 
Rennwegthor, the north-west gate of the city. 


126 Huldreich Zwingli [1519 


would send him, if you choose, back to Italy. Still His 
Holiness would prefer that you allow him to stay the full 
time of his commission among you. However, His Holi- 
ness will do everything for you which advances your sal- 
vation. Therefore I beg you, mighty lords, that if you 
had rather that Brother Bernhardin return to Italy than 
remain with you, send him off without ceremony. If he 
has erred in his utterances he must give an account of 
himself to his lord and be punished as he deserves.’’ * 


At the same time the Pope wrote, through his 
secretary, this letter to Samson: 


‘“ The noble lords of the Thirteen Swiss cantons have 
complained to the Supreme Pontiff regarding your Pater- 
nity that in the promulgation of the indulgences you have 
fallen into certain errors, which it would take too much 
space toinsert here. Whereat His Holiness, being greatly 
astonished, ordered me verbally to admonish you in His 
name to adapt yourself in all things to the wishes of the 
aforesaid lords of the Swiss; if they decree to have you 
remain till the expiration of the time named in your com- 
mission stay so long, but if to return offer no opposition. 
Nay, the will of our Most Holy Lord is that what con- 
duces to the spiritual advantage of these lords, beloved 
sons of His Holiness, you do as much as possible. Your 
Paternity may show the present letter to the mighty lords 
of the Swiss. 

‘“* From the Convent Ara Coeli [Rome], May 1, 1519.’’? 


The upshot of the matter was that Samson left 


1 Hottinger, Hist. Lecl. Nov. T., vii., 1779-180. 
* Quoted in note to vii., 79. 


~ 1519] Opening Year in Zurich 127 


Switzerland that summer for good, and to the gen- 
etal satisfaction, and vanishes from history.’ 

As his correspondence for the year 1519 plainly 
shows, Zwingli and his friends were deeply interested 
in the news and rumours, hopes and fears, plans and 
plots, which agitated all Europe between January 
12, 1519, when the Emperor Maximilian died, and 
June 28th, when the electors chose Charles V. as 
his successor." Zwingli was opposed to the Swiss 
as a nation taking any part in the bargains, and, 
alas, bribery, preliminary to the choice. He is 
reported to have said: 


“Charles is a young prince, Spain is a grasping, rest- 
less, proud, dissolute people. Why should the Germans 
so inconsiderately put such a prince over them as their 
head ? It was perfectly evident such a prince would rule 
the Germans to their injury, and under the cover of zeal 
for the faith, abuse their confidence and rob them of the 
Word of God.’’ * 


1 Fabri or (Faber), the vicar-general, expresses himself as pleased at 
the news (vii., 79). Zwingli, in 1523 (i., 97), blames himself and 
other priests for their deception in the matter of indulgences. 

2 EF. g., vil., 65, 70, 71, 73, 76, and Supplement, 17-109. 

3 Bullinger, i., 27. Edward Fueter, in his doctor of philosophy 
inaugural dissertation, Der Anteil der Eidgenossenschaft an der 
Wahl Karls V. (Basel, 1899), on pp. 73-75, questions the accuracy 
of Bullinger’s memory upon this point, and appeals to Zwingli’s 
letters to Beatus Rhenanus as given in the Supplement to Zwingli’s 
works, The first of the two passages alluded to was written on 
March 21, 151g, and is quoted on next page. The second is this: 
Writing on March 25th, he says: ‘‘ The Swiss have nothing less in 
mind than that the Frenchman should assume imperial] rank, or at 
least they pretend to have that purpose. For we are as thickly 
covered over with acts of wickedness as the leopard is with spots, 


128 Huldreich Zwingli [z5r9 


But the Swiss formally threw their influence in 
favour of Charles, April 3, 1519.’ 

Zwingli was witness of the shifty policy of the 
Pope (Leo X.) during the negotiations which pre- 
ceded the imperial election.*, He was also aware of 
the machinations of the same Pope against Luther. 
Writing to Rhenanus on March 21, 1519, he thus 
expresses himself on both points, and promises to 
do his part in opposing such designs: 


‘It pained me that the man-pleaser, or, if you prefer, 
the cuckoo [7. ¢., the Pope], is entertaining designs against 
the rising theology, like the Frenchman’s [the French 


and you will not easily recognise who speaks from his heart and 
who from his head. Nevertheless, a part of the good are thus far in 
better mind” (Supplement, 18). But these passages do not contra- 
dict Bullinger’s statement. 

1VII., 75, note. In 1530, writing to Conradson, Zwingli says: 
‘““What has Germany to do with Rome? Why, not even the Roman 
priests receive him [the Emperor] into their city and their homes! 
Ponder this rhyme, 


*** Popedom and Czesardom 
Are both of them from Rome.’ 


It was not enough that by the more than treasonable wiles of the 
pontiff the Christian world had been circumvented for so many ages, 
during which nevertheless the rulers either did not assent to or at 
least did not favour [the thing]; they had to take unto themselves 
the evil of elevating an unskilled man, a superstitious Spanish youth, 
to the loftiest pinnacle. This one is not able to understand German > 
because of his ignorance, nor to respond to their [the Germans’] 
demands [in their own language]” (Supplement, p. 39). That 
Charles was not quite so ignorant of German appears from his read- 
ing aloud at the Diet of Augsburg a speech in German. 

? See them impartially and fully set forth by Creighton, Wistory 
of the Papacy, vi., 110-117. 


1519] Opening Year in Zurich 129 


King’s] against Germany. . . . May Christ so order 
it that I may be able —at least to some extent — to dis- 
close the shamefulness of this wanton clothed in purple, 
that by this means Israel may see the light which has 
come into the world, and that Christ is dishonoured by 
her?*? 2 

A remarkable instance of the readiness of at least 
one Roman Catholic prelate to protect Zwingli 
against printed attacks is given ina letter from Basel, 
dated November 21, 1519,” from which it appears 
that a certain monk had preached against Zwingli, 
as he had a perfect right to do, and had gone to 
Basel to have his polemical sermons printed. But 
Zwingli, through another friend, asked his friend, 
Cardinal Schinner, who was in Basel, to have an 
embargo put upon the volume, and the Cardinal so 
managed things that the monk could not secure a 
printer in Basel! Another friend of Zwingli’s 
(Capito), living in Strassburg, undertook to exclude 
the same monk from the presses of that city.* But 
this was a dangerous game for the friends of progress 
to play. 

In this year, 1519, there comes into the corre- 
spondence of Zwingli a new and auspicious name— 
Luther. As the best indication of the way Luther’s 
fame was spreading, and how keenly Zwingli enjoyed 
his writings, —of which he had no knowledge, at all 
events by personal reading, until he had passed the 
exposition of the Lord’s Prayer in his sermons on 


? Supplement, p. 18. 
avila 90; 


3 Zwingli reported this intelligence to Myconius, vii., 98. 
9 


130 Huldreich Zwingli [1519 


Matthew,’—the incidental remarks and allusions 
in the correspondence of the year may be cited.’ 
They seem to contradict Myconius’s statement that 
Zwingli purposely refrained from reading Luther’s 
writings.* Zwingli was jealous of the claim of chron- 
ological antecedence made for Luther. This was 
a weakness of a very venial order. The fact is that 
neither Luther nor Zwingli was more than a cen- 
tre of the reformatory movement which had been 
gathering force before they were born. Leaders do 
not create the movements they head. The fame of 
Luther has so eclipsed Zwingli’s that the latter’s 
claim of precedence in time is one of the unnoticed 
things in history. They came to a knowledge of 
the same essential truths simultaneously, and should 
have rejoiced in the fact. Instead, Zwingli was 
anxious to assure everybody that he had discovered 
the Gospel before Luther was heard of in Switzer- 
land, as if it were some invention on which he 
sought a patent! Erasmus was another one who 
repeatedly remarked that he had not read Luther, 
but then this conduct was in order to make life 
easier for himself with his friends among the Catho- 
lic princes and ecclesiastics. He also had his claim, 
and it was that Luther, and, @ fortzorz, Zwingli, only 
taught what he had told them!* 

From the Zwingli correspondence of 1519 it is 
learned that opposition to his preaching had led to 
such violence that he was in some personal danger °; 


lose 4 Cf. Emerton’s Lrasmus, e. g., 208 599. 
* See Excursus at end of this chapter, 
PR 7s 5 VII., 74; Supplement, 21. 


1519] Opening Year in Zurich P31 


and also that he had intimate relations with Cardinal 
Schinner.’ 

In the same year, 1519, the plague appeared 
in Switzerland.* As it had not yet come to 
Zurich, Zwingli went on a holiday that summer to 
Pfaefers,* about sixty miles south-east of Zurich. 
In the village was a large Benedictine monastery, 
in which he probably stopped. There Zwingli was 
when the news reached him that the plague had 
broken out in Zurich. As it was the duty of the 
people’s priest to be on service in the city during 
plague time, he hastened back,* and did his duty 
faithfully. The plague was very severe, for 2500 
died of it out of an aggregate population in the 
three parishes of only 17,000. It broke out on St. 
Lawrence’s day (Wednesday, August 10, 1519), 
reached its height September 12th, and subsided in 
Christmas week,” yet lingered for a year after that. 
Zwingli fell a victim toward the end of September," 

DN oy Viki 7541 QO, 198. 

2 Allusions to its being in Basel occur in vii., 83. 

3 Allusion to this visit occurs in viil., II9. The famous medicinal 
spring is in a deep gorge under the village. The monastery where 
he probably stopped is now a lunatic asylum. He went thither in 
the latter part of July, as an undated letter (vii., 84) alludes to his 
absence from the city and to a money payment due on St. Verena’s 
day (July 22d). 

4He took the most direct route, which was probably down the 
Lake of Zurich, and not the more comfortable one, perhaps, by way 
of Old St. John’s (vii., 88). This accounts for the complaint, in the 
passage just cited, of the abbot of Old St. John’s that Zwingli had 
not visited him on his return. 

5 So Bullinger, i., 28. 

6 VII., 87, note. On September 22d, a friend, writing from Wesen, 
speaks of him as up to that time having escaped (vii., 87). Bullinger 


132 Huldreich Zwingli [1519 


and was very sick. By November he was able to 
write again.’ But his recovery was slow. On No- 
vember 30th, he complains that the disease had left 
his memory weakened, his spirits reduced, so that 
his mind wandered when preaching, and after 
preaching he felt thoroughly exhausted.” On De- 
cember 31st, he reported himself as well again, and 
that the last ulcer caused by the malady had healed.’ 
But his rejoicing was premature, as on March 27, 
1520, he complains that he had eaten and drunk 
many drugs to get rid of his fever, and still his head 
was weak, although he was daily growing better.* 
After his recovery, as a memorial of this serious ill- 
ness, he composed this poem, which has some literary 
merit, and at all events shows that his look into 
eternity had sobered his spirit: 


A CHRISTIAN SONG WRITTEN BY HULDRYCH ZWINGLI 
WHEN HE WAS ATTACKED BY THE PESTILENCE,° 


I. At the Beginning of the [liness. 


Help, Lord God, help So let it be! 
In this trouble ! Do what Thou wilt; 


says (i., 28) he fell sick ‘tin August,” but this is a mistake. He was 
sick when Andrew wrote on October 13th (vii., 88, cf. pp. 65, 66 of 
this volume). 

' Andrew’s letter (vii., 88, see p. 66 of this volume) acknowledging 
one from Zwingli is unfortunately not dated, but is probably cor- 
rectly put by the editors before November 6, 1519. 

2 Nip ee oor CNVINES <1Koysh. 4VII., 124. 

5II., 2, 270-272; pp. 269-270 discuss the origin of the poem and 
its form ; pp. 272-274 reprint a poetical paraphrase in modern Ger- 
man, which departs widely from the original; the poetical version 
given in the English translation in Merle D’Aubigné’s History of the 
Reformation (ed, Edinburgh ; Oliver & Boyd, 1853, ii., 466 sgg.), 


f519] Opening Year in Zurich 133° 


I think, Death is at the door. Me nothing lacks.? 

Stand before! me, Christ ; Thy vessel am I; 

For Thou hast overcome him ! To make or break altogether. 
To Thee I cry: For, if Thou takest away 

If it is Thy will, My spirit 

Take out the dart, From this earth, 

Which wounds me! Thou dost it, that it? may not 
Nor lets me have an hour’s grow worse, 

Rest or repose ! Nor spot 

Will’st Thou however The pious lives and ways of 
That Death take me others, 


In the midst of my days, 


LIT. In the Midst of his [liness. 


Console me, Lord God, console My tongue is dumb, 
me! It cannot speak a word. 
The illness increases, My senses are all blighted. 
Pain and fear seize Therefore is it time 
My soul and body. That Thou my fight 
Come to me then, Conductest hereafter ; 
With Thy grace, O my only Since I am not 
consolation ! So strong, that I 
It4 will surely save Can bravely 
Everyone, who Make resistance 
His heart’s desire To the Devil’s wiles and treach- 
And hope sets erous hand. 
On Thee, and who besides Still will my spirit 


and the better one in Schaff’s History of the Christian Church (vii., 
44-46, with the original text), represent the original form to some 
extent, but they do not give all the lines and are paraphrastic. In 
order to enable the reader to have the entire poem and the exact 
meaning of the author, it is here given in literal prose translation, 
line by line, as far as the idiom admits. 

1Tn the sense of ‘‘ protect.” 

? The words may also mean equally well, ‘‘ nothing shall be too 
much for me.” 

SME tac. IM eSpITIts 

ASE TE, ne, 00 By (SEACE. 


134 Huldreich Zwingli [1519 


Despises all gain and loss. Constantly abide by Thee, how- 
Now all is up. ever he rages. 


ITT, During Convatescence. 


Sound, Lord God, sound ! Sometime endure 

I think, I am Perhaps with greater anguish, 
Already coming back.? Than would now have 

Yes, if it please Thee, Happened,? Lord ! 

That no spark of sin Since I came 

Rule me longer on earth, So near?; 

Then my lips must So will I still 

Thy praise and teaching The spite and boasting 

Bespeak more Of this world 

Than ever before, Bear joyfully for the sake of the 
However it may go, reward 

In simplicity and with no danger. By Thy help, 

Although I must Without which nothing can be 
The punishment of death perfect. 


So in useful labours, but also with many painful 
hours, much anxiety, an almost deadly sickness fol- 
lowed by a slow recovery, the first year of Zwingli’s 
residence in Zurich passed away. His mode of life 
is thus described, and the description is true of his 
remaining years: he rose early, and studied, stand- 
ing up, till 10 o'clock; after dinner, which commonly 
at that time in Zurich came on at II A.M., until 2 
P.M,, he was free to all who came; from 2 P.M. till 
supper-time he studied; after supper he walked out 
a little; then returned to study or to write letters, 
which latter occupation sometimes kept him up till 


17, e., to health, to myself. 
27, ¢., if I had died this time. 
37, e., to death’s door. 


1519] Opening Year in Zurich 135 


midnight.’ He read much in the classics: Aristotle, 
Plato, Thucydides, Demosthenes, and Hesiod, Lu- 
cian, Theocritus, and Aristophanes, Homer, and 
especially Pindar, are to be mentioned as the Greek 
authors he was most familiar with; while his Latin 
favourites were Horace, Sallust, and Seneca. He 
had begun the study of Hebrew at Einsiedeln, but 
soon dropped it. Now he took it up again under 
Andreas Boeschenstein.” As at Glarus, he had 
pupils in his house. He also gave instruction in 
Greek in the cathedral school.° 


EXCURSUS 


Ll. On Zwingh’s Autographic Paulinus, 2. e., Self- 
made Transcript of the Pauline Epistles. 


That the text of this autographic copy is the first Erasmus is ac- 
knowledged. This had appeared in the spring of 1516. The Greek 
text itself is dated merely with the year 1516 ; the colophon, February, 
1516; the last page of the Annotations of Erasmus, which is part 
of the book, the Kalends of March, 1516; the preface of Froben, the 
printer and publisher, ‘‘ Basileze sexto Calendas Martias Anno 
MDXVI,” z. e., Sunday, March 2, 1516. There is no evidence that 
Zwingli ever possessed personally a copy of this first edition of the 
Greek Testament. That which is called his Bible of the Glarean and 
Einsiedeln periods is a Latin Bible, and his first Greek Bible is the 
Aldine edition of 1518. See the catalogue of the Zwingli exhibi- 
tion of January, 1884, pp. 7, 8. In the lines cited on page 121, 
Zwingli gives the date of his Pawhnus as 1517; while in his Amica 
Lixegests, which appeared in 1527, he says (ill., 543): ‘‘God is 

1So Myconius, pp. 7, 8; Bullinger, i., 30; and pp. 91, 92 of this 


volume. 
? He confessed in 1526 that his Hebrew learning was inconsider- 


able (vii., 534). 
’ Zwingli gives an insight into his busy life in his letter to Rhe- 


nanus of June 17, 1520 (Supplement, 25-27), 


136 Huldreich Zwingli [1319 


my witness that I owe my knowledge of the essence and contents 
of the Gospel to the reading of the writings of John and of Au- 
gustine, and with special attention, the Epistles of Paul, a copy 
of which I made with my own hands eleven years ago.” Myconius, 
Zwingli’s first biographer, explicitly puts the copy in the Glarean 
period, for when writing of it he says: ‘‘ He copied Paul’s Epistles 
and committed them to memory” (dc. ci¢t., p. 5). So does Bul- 
linger, who however relied much upon Myconius, for, speaking of 
the Glarean period, he says: ‘‘Among other performances he copied 
the Epistles of Paul in Greek and committed them to memory. 
And when the first Annotations of Erasmus of Rotterdam appeared 
he copied some of the notable ones into his written Paulinus, as he 
did also annotations from Origen, Chrysostom, Ambrose, Jerome” 
(Zoc. cit., i., 8). The explanation of Zwingli’s apparent uncertainty 
whether the Paulinus was made in 1516 or 1517 is probably that the 
copy used was that in the library at Einsiedeln, and the copying was 
begun during his visits there before he finally left Glarus, z. ¢., be- 
tween April and October, 1516, but finished the next year, and the 
marginalia later. The copy he made of the Epistles is in the city 
library in Zurich, being presented to the city in 1634 by his great- 
granddaughter, Anna Zwingli. See preface to this volume, and 
the photographs direct from its pages. 


IT. On Zwingh’s Preaching against the Pensioners 
and Pensions. 


Bullinger (i., 51), as quoted in Zwingli’s Works (ii., 2, 350), thus 
wrote of Zwingli’s preaching in 1521 against the pensioners and the 
pensions: ‘‘Zwingli preached at this time very earnestly against 
taking money, saying that it would break up and disturb the pious 
Confederation. He spoke also against unions with princes and 
lords. If they were made, each honest man should regard them. 
What had been promised should also be kept. Therefore, no one 
should enter into any unions; and if God helps a people out of 
unions, they should avoid entering into them again; for they cost 
much blood. And I wish, said he, Zwingli, that they had made a 
hole in the union with the Pope, and had given his messenger some- 
thing to carry home on his back. He said also that one would be 
aroused about a voracious wolf, but they do not offer protection from 


1519] Opening Year in Zurich 137 


the wolves which destroy men, They may well wear red hats and 
mantles; for if one should shake them, ducats and crowns would fall 
out; if one should wring them, there would run from them his 
son’s, brother’s, father’s, and good friends’ blood.” 

The editors of Zwingli’s Works then go on (ii., 2, 350) to say, and 
in order to present a concluding specimen of Zwingli’s preaching 
against pensioners and pensions, the passage is here given: ‘‘ When 
the news was spread abroad of the defeat at Pavia, on the 24th of 
January, 1525, when of ten thousand Swiss five thousand remained 
upon the battle-field, and the other fleeing five thousand were plun- 
dered, as they deserved, by the country-people, and driven home in 
disgrace, bringing nothing with them but rags and sickness, great 
grief was caused, and complaints arose throughout the Confederation, 
and people cursed aloud the union with France, the pensions, and 
the war money. Then, as Bullinger reports, ‘Zwingli stood in the 
pulpit on Sunday, the 6th of March [1525], and preached about the 
old condition of the Confederation, telling how simple and pious 
the people of former days had been, who had received from God great 
victories and special mercies. Now, the people have changed; there- 
fore, God is punishing us so severely. And it cannot be helped, un- 
less we return again to our former piety, innocence, and simplicity. 
Otherwise, we shall gradually fall like the leaves, and finally be 
entirely destroyed, yes, ruined. God will not endure arrogance, 
He showed how there were in the Confederation two kinds of 
nobility, who did much more injury than the old nobility had ever 
done intimes past. For these were in the midst of us, and were of us. 
The first nobility are the pensioners, whom he called pear-roasters, 
because they sat at home behind the stove, and did not come out, and 
still they got at the treasures of all the lords. They said to the lords 
great things about the children of honest people, with whom they de- 
sired to bring about this and that, of which they, however, said 
nothing either to the fathers or the children, and still less noticed 
them. And such do much greater injury among us than any foreign 
lords. The other nobility are the captains, who walk around in 
such rich silks, silver, gold, and precious stones, with rings and 
chains, so that it is a disgrace to the sun and moon, not to mention 
God and man. One is golden above, and silver below; another is 
gold below, and velvet or damask above; and the clothing so slit 
and cut open, that it is a disgrace that one should allow them to 
strut around so publicly before people’s eyes. You know well, 


138 Huldreich Zwingli [1519 


honest people, although it was claimed against me that I had at- 
tacked these people and called them blood-suckers and leeches, that 
I did not do it. But still, I must now say and publicly tel! you 
what these captains are like. And it is the same to me, whether any 
people regret it or not. For the figure is in itself not as bad as those. 
are of whom I speak. They are like butchers who drive cattle to 
Constance ; they drive the cattle out, take the money for them, and 
come home without the cattle; then they go out again, and do like- 
wise repeatedly. Thus, also, the pensioners and captains do. They 
have always succeeded (except once) in coming home from the 
battles and the cannon—I do not know where they stationed them- 
selves—and bring their money-belts full of money, and have driven 
away the children of honest people. And immediately they begin 
again and collect another herd. These they also drive out ; and thus 
they become rich. Now consider, whether one can blame these blood- 
merchants severely enough; see, also, how these are a much less 
endurable nobility than the former. Ye know that I staked my neck 
on it in the beginning, that the union with the king would bring the 
Confederation into great difficulties. Thus, I say now again that 
things are not over, and that they will become worse,—yes, must be- 
come worse—I stake my life and limb upon this,—unless things 
change. For the pensioners sit everywhere in the regiments, do not 
wish to give up the pensions, and therefore do not wish to forbid 
war, And the captains lead astray as many sheep! as they wish, and 
still people take their hats off to them. If a wolf takes away a sheep 
or a goose, one is up and aroused. These lead astray many proud 
men, and no one does anything about it. For everything is over- 
looked in this matter. Of course no one must go away to war, ex- 
cept him who so desires, and still no authority in the union, no 
father dares forbid his children to go away to war. Is that a divine 
union, and an advantage for the Confederation? I tell you, if people 
do not help to do away with suc. things, God’s vengeance will follow 
manifold ; for God does not allow such arrogance and deception of 
the poor, common man to go unavenged. God says, do away with the 
bad in the midst of you. Therefore, if one desires to repent, one must 
do this promptly and straightway. Still, if one repents, and showsa 
certain regret for his misdeed, let people take his possessions and 
property which he has thus gained, and divide it among the widows 


' The German by misprint has ‘‘ schiff”’ instead of ‘‘ schaf.” 


1519] Opening Year in Zurich 139 


and orphans to whom he is responsible. For one must at once de- 
stroy this mammon of riches, brought together by pensions and cap- 
tains’ money, like mole-hills in the meadows. And if people do not, 
one should take staff in hand, and so punish the mowers in the 
meadows, that they shall be an example to the others. Finally, 
he urged the people to earnest prayer, that God would grant us a cor- 
rect understanding, so that the right should please us, and we should 
do that which pleases. God,’ ” 


Ill. On the Allusions to Luther in the Zwingli 
Correspondence of 1519. 


Luther’s name is first mentioned in the Zwingli correspondence in 
the letter of Nesen, the friend and travelling companion of Melanch- 
thon, from Louvain, April, 1518 (vii., 36-40). 

The following writings of Luther are alluded to in the Zwingli 
correspondence of 151g (vii., 61-104). 

1. A letter from Luther to Bernardus and Conradus Adelmann, 
canons of Augsburg. 

2. ‘‘Ein Kurtze form das Paternoster zu verstan ynd zu betté fiir die 
iungen kinder im Christen glauben durch Doctor Martinum Luther: 
Augustiner ordens zu Vittéberg. Gedruckt zu Basel durch Ada 
Petri. Als man zalt. M. D. xix.” 

Reprinted in the Weimar edition of Luther’s works, vi., 9-19. 

3. ‘‘ Eyn deutsch Theologia. das ist Eyn edles Buchleyn, von rec- 
tem vorstand, was Adam vnd Christus sey, vnd wie Adam yn vns ster- 
ben, vnd Christus ersteen sall.” 

No mention of the Petri reprint, which is apparently referred to here 
in the Zwingli correspondence, is made in the Weimar edition of Lu- 
ther, which is usually strong in bibliography. But then that edition (i., 
378, 379) only presents the preface, which to be sure is the only part 
of the book which Luther wrote. Best edition of the complete work 
by J. K. F. Knaake, Weimar (H. Boehlau), 1883. In English trans- 
lation by Miss Susanna Winkworth, 7'heologia Germanica, London, 
1854, and later editions. 

4. ‘‘ Disputatio et excusatio F. Martini Luther aduersus crimina- 
tiones D. Johannis Eccii.” 

Original edition, Wittenberg, 1519 ; Weimar edition, ii., 158-161. 

5. ‘‘Die Sieben puszpsalm mit deutscher auszlegung nach dem 


140 Huldreich Zwingli [1519 


schrifftlichen synne tzu Christi vnd gottis gnaden, neben seyn selben. 
ware erkentniss. grundlich gerichtet.” 

Original edition, Wittenberg, 1517 ; Weimar edition, i., 158-220. 

6. ‘‘ Resolvtio Lvtheriana svper propositione sva decima tertia, de 
potestate papae.” 

Original edition, Wittenberg, 1519; Basel edition, 1519 ; Weimar 
edition, ii., 183-240. 

7. ‘‘Disputatio excellentium. D. doctorii Iohannis Eccij & Andree 
Carolostadij q cepta est. Lipsie XX VII. Iunij. AN. M.D. xix. Dis- 
putatio secunda. D. Doctorii Iohanis Eccij & Andree Carolostadij 
q cepit XV. Lulij. Disputatio. Eiusdem D. Iohannis Eccij & D. 
Martini Lutheri Augustiniani g cepit IIII. Iulij.” 

The original author and date are uncertain ; but very likely the 
author was Luther and the date December, 1519. The Weimar edi- 
tion (ii. 254-383) reprints merely the debate between Luther and Eck. 

8. Ein Sermon von dem elichen standt Doctoris Martini Luther 
Augustiner zu Wittenburgh geprediget im Tausend funf hundert va 
neuntzehenden Jar. 

Original edition, Leipzig, 1519 ; Weimar edition, ii. 166-171. 

Allusions to Luther in the Zwingli correspondence in chronological 
order : 

February 22, 1519. Zwingli to Rhenanus: ‘‘ Thanks for writing 
so carefully about M. Luther. But the Abbot of St. John’s has very 
opportunely sent me the letter of a certain tutor at Wittenberg, in 
which the writer felicitates him upon reading the writings of Luther, 
a man who really recalls the image of Christ. He adds that as soon 
as Luther got release from the Cardinal of St. Sixtus [Cardinal 
Cajetan] at Augsburg [October 20, 1518] he returned straight to 
Wittenberg [arrived October 31st], where he now preaches Christ 
constantly, to the great admiration of all, prepared even to be 
crucified forhim. . . . Luther is approved by all the learned at 
Zurich” (Suppl., 15, 16). 

March 19. From Rhenanus, Basel: ‘‘I have copied for your ben- 
efit the letter Martin Luther sent to the Adelmanns of Augsburg. 
The manly and firm bearing of the man will delight you "(vii., 71). 

March 21. Zwingli to Rhenanus: ‘‘I read eagerly your words 
and Luther’s” (Suppl., 17). 

March 25. Same to same: ‘‘[Sander] did not read the copy of 
Luther’s letter, but he had heard a few things from me, such, for 
instance, as that the words of Luther and Eck taken down hurriedly 


1519] Opening Year in Zurich 141 


by shorthand writers [at the Leipzig Disputation, June 27 sgq., 
1519] will be revised and submitted to the judgment of the Christian 
world, etc.” (Suppl., 18). 

May 7. From Rhenanus, Basel: ‘‘ You soon shall have the 
Theses of Martin Luther’s which he is to defend at Leipzig against 
errors old and new, together with a letter in which he portrays Eck 
better than any artist could”’ (vii., 74). 

May 24. Same to same, Basel: ‘‘ Adam Petri, the printer—I 
think you know him—is about to print some new treatises of Luther’s 
German, a plain and characteristically Lutheran commentary on the 
Lord’s Prayer [cf i., 254], and also a German Theology [the famous 
Theologia Germanica so admired by Luther], compared with which 
the subtle theology of Scotus appears gross and dull; and other books 
of this sort. If you publicly commend these to the people, that is, 
persuade them to buy them, the work upon which you are engaged 
will succeed in accordance with your most ardent desires. . . . I 
send you as a gift the Theses of Luther against Eck and the [com- 
mentary on the Lord’s] Prayer in German” (vii., 77). [Zwingli 
commended these from the pulpit, Myconius says (p. 7), with- 
out reading them. But this is apparently contradicted by what 
follows. | 

June 7. Zwingli to Rhenanus: ‘‘ Ido not fear that Luther's com- 
mentary on the Lord’s Prayer will be displeasing to me, nor the pop- 
ular ‘‘ Theology,” which you say is being finished, and spread among 
the people in parts every day. I shall buy a considerable quantity, 
especially if he deals somewhat with the adoration of saints in the 
commentary” (Suppl., 21, 22). 

June 25. Same to same: ‘‘ When the writings of Luther have 
come from the press, please send them by the first messenger or 
carrier who can bring a considerable number” (Suppl., 23). 

July 2. From Rhenanus, Basel: ‘‘If this Lucius, who brings 
you this letter, seems to you to have enough prudence and acumen, 
I should like to have him carry the tracts of Luther, particularly 
the commentary .on the Lord’s Prayer—the edition for laymen 
—to sell them from town to town, and throughout the country. 
even from house to house, for this will forward our plans in a wonder- 
ful degree, and will be an assistance to him. And I do not see why 
he should not be under great obligation to you, if by your exhortation 
particularly he shall have been changed from a tramp to a book- 
agent! And then the wider he is known the more easily he will 


142 Huldreich Zwingli [1519 


find buyers. Who will hesitate to give him a sesterce [7. ¢., 4% 
cents] for an excellent book when he would in any event have made 
him a present of a trifle? But care must be taken that he have no 
other kind of books to sell, especially at the present time. For he 
will sell the more books of Luther’s if he has no other, for the pur- 
chaser will be, so to speak, coerced into buying them, as would not 
be the case if he had a variety. If, however, you do not deem him 
a suitable person look about for some other one to whom you can 
give letters to your friends, both clerical and lay. In the meantime 
I have become owner of Luther’s commentary in German on the 
Seven Penitential Psalms, which is both devotional and learned ” 
(vii., 81). [Rhenanus was very zealous in distributing Luther's 
works, and as appears from his letter was quite modern in his 
methods. If living to-day he would be sought for to run a sub- 
scription-book department !] 

July 2. Zwingli to Rhenanus: ‘‘ William [a Falconibus] 
dropped this at dinner when Luther had been mentioned; the 
provost of the monastery of St. Peter’s in Basel [ Ludovicus Berus] 
has sent Luther’s works to Rome as soon as they were printed ” 
(Suppl., 24). 

July 2. From Simon Stumph, Basel: ‘‘ Have the copies of M. 
Luther on the Lord’s Prayer distributed everywhere, both in country 
and in city, among the unlearned people as well as among the 
priests. For IJ trust that all the people of Zurich will buy it on your 
advice ; and I think it would be well if someone were engaged to 
do nothing else than to carry it around from place to place, so 
matters necessary for salvation should become known among all 
people” (vii., 82). 

July 17. From James Ammann, Basel: ‘‘I understand that you 
have Luther’s ‘‘ Pater Noster,”’ as they call it; otherwise I should 
have sent it by this messenger. I think that Luther has nothing else 
out which you have not seen except a short sermon in German on the 
married state. As soon as it is printed at Strassburg I shall send it 
to you. I have seen a copy of it at Beatus’ [Rhenanus]” (vii , 83). 

September 23. From Nepos (proof-reader for the printer Froben), 
Basel: ‘‘ A little work by Luther on the power of the pope is in our 
hands, and as soon as it is printed it shall come to you” (vii., 86, 87). 

November 13. Zasius, the eminent jurist of Freiburg, one 
of the great men among the Church laity, sent a long letter all 
about Luther, in which these sentences occur; ‘‘ There are in 


1519] Opening Year in Zurich 143 


[Luther] many qualities which you may praise and defend, on the 
other hand some which excite a little opposition. He has rightly 
taught that all our good deeds are to be referred to God and nothing 


is to be attributed to our own will except wickedness. . . . But 
in this matter of indulgences . . . Luther, more bold than 
felicitous, hastened to cut the Gordian knot. . . . What Luther 


has sown abroad about penitence and faith I regard as most salutary. 
Nevertheless, there run through the teachings of Luther 
homenes which affect me painfully. . . . Finally Luther has 
brought out in his latest little book some things which he regards as 
proved, as that the pope is not by divine right universal bishop. 
How much this displeases me I cannot express. . . . Oh, that 
there were some upright one who would influence Luther not to be 
so violent but to have regard for the modesty which he everywhere 
praises, that he mingle not dross with his gold” (vii., 92 5¢¢.). 

December 17. From Johann Faber, Constance: ‘‘ You shall 
know at an early date what I think in the matter of Carlstadt and 
Luther. When I have completed this piece of work I will take care 
that you see it as soon as possible” (vii., 101). [Zwingli did not 
want to receive it; cf., vii., 116.] 

December 28. From Myconius, Lucerne: ‘* There has come into 
my hands through a Dominican monk an epitome of the discussion 
of Luther with Eck. I should have sent this to you if I had been 
sure that you did not have it. This is written by Luther himself, so 
that I have as much confidence in its accuracy as if I had been 
present and heard all”’ (vii., 102). 

December 31. Zwingli to Myconius: ‘‘I have that epitome 
[relating to the Leipzig Disputation ; see above] of Luther, have read 
it, approved of it, and hope that Eck in following that elusive little 
wind of glory will throw away his labour” (vii., 104). 


CHAPTER V 
PREPARING FOR THE REFORMATION 
1520-1521 


T is greatly to be regretted that so many of 
Zwingli’s letters have perished. Several of those 
received by him contain directions for their immedi- 
ate destruction after reading, and perhaps he may 
have made such a request himself in some cases; but 
it is improbable that the carrying out of such direc- 
tions wholly accounts for the deplorable loss. The 
printed correspondence of 1520 and 1521, just the 
years when it would be particularly desirable to 
know Zwingli’s own views and plans, consists almost 
entirely of answers to letters from him, mostly lost, 
or of letters asking him to write, or reproaching him 
for not writing. Still the preserved letters from and 
to him are valuable, They show that he was the 
cynosure of a brilliant circle of young men who 
praise to the skies, yet with apparent honesty, his 
learning, kindness, devotion to ‘“‘preaching Christ,” 
and his disinterested readiness to use his influence 
to advance the fortunes of his friends. His own 
letters—alas! only fifteen for these two years—occa- 
sionally touch a deeper note and bring out more of 
the music of the Spirit than in former years. But 
they do not show that his serious illness had made a 
turning-point in his life, as has often been imagined. 


T44 


tsar] Preparing for the Reformation 145 


The new life of Zwingli dates rather from the death 
of his brother Andrew, a youth of rare promise and 
tenderly beloved,’ November 18, 1520. 

Several letters are to Myconius, full of brotherly 
sympathy with that simple-minded man in his trials 
for the sake of the Gospel, and helpful to him in his 
study of the Scriptures. Writing to Vadianus, 
Zwingli speaks thus of Hus’s book ‘‘On the 
Church ’”’ : ‘‘ So far as I have been able to take a 
taste of a page here and there it seems to me to be 
not unlearned, but the work of a man who is some- 
what ahead of his age in erudition.”’* Luther comes 
in for frequent mention. In Germany, Switzerland, 
and France he was evidently making a great sensa- 
tion. His debate with Eck at Leipzig, his excom- 
munication, his appearance at Worms, his friendly 
capture, are all alluded to in the correspondence.’ 

Zwingli made a visit to Basel early in 1520, and 
again about a year afterwards, when he met Erasmus 
there again.’ 

The letters also show how haphazard epistolary 
intercourse between individuals was in those days, 
being dependent upon couriers, or special mes- 


1See pp. 64 sgq. 

2VII., 138. Rather patronising. Hus’s book is now known to 
be a translation from Wyclif. See Loserth, English translation, 
Wich f and Hus (London, 1884), pp. 181 sgg. 

3 Thus Martin Butzer writes from Worms on May 22, 1521 (vii., 
174), Luther having been taken to the Wartburg on May 2, 1521: 
““You know, I suppose, that Luther has been captured, but unless I 
am very much mistaken not by his foes, The matter is admirably 
concealed, as is very proper.” 

4VII., 192, 195, 196. Cf. this book, p. 78. 


10 


146 Huldreich Zwingli [1520- 


sengers, or passing friends; and how in disturbed 
times communication well-nigh ceased. They also 
show that Zwingli was rapidly becoming a force to 
be reckoned with, for although his preaching of a 
common-sense Gospel was awakening opposition, it 
was winning friends every day. The opposition 
came chiefly from the inmates of the three monas- 
teries in the city,—the Dominican, the Franciscan, 
and the Augustinian,—for the monks were naturally 
the determined foes to all change in theology and 
fanatically attached to what they believed to be in- 
spired and necessary ceremonies. They had acertain 
measure of support, as the conservative party always 
has, and as they could wield the ecclesiastical ma- 
chinery of the Church they were formidable, and 
the friends of Zwingli were alarmed for his safety. 
Zwingli gives this calm view of his situation in a 
letter to Myconius, dated December 31, 1519: 


‘* As to that base herd of Anti-christs accusing me first 
of imprudence and then of impudence, you ought to hear 
that quietly, for now I begin not to be [the only] heretic 
though they meanwhile are boldly, not to say lyingly, 
asserting it. For I am not alone: at Zurich there are more 
than two thousand rational souls, who, now feeding on 
spiritual milk, will soon take solid food, while those others 
are miserably starving. As to their assertion that my doc- 
trine (it is Christ’s not mine) is of the Devil, that is all 
right. For in this assertion I recognise the doctrine of 
Christ and myself as its true herald. So the Pharisees 
declared that Christ had a Devil, and that they were in 
the right.’’ ? 


'VIL., 104. 


1521] Preparing for the Reformation 147 


And that he really was on the winning side appears 
from the order of the Council of the city, early in 
1520, that all preachers in the canton should preach 
only what they could prove from the Word of God, 
and leave alone the doctrines and ordinances not so 
provable.* This order still more excited the monks, 
for it showed they could not count upon the civil 
power in Zurich. 

In another earnest letter to Myconius, dated July 
24, 1520," Zwingli speaks of the hopes and fears of 
the Gospel. At one time there seemed every like- 
lihood that the Gospel would flourish, so many good 
men and learned men were labouring to bring this 
about, but opposition arose. He was inclined per- 
sonally to make light of these attacks. ‘“‘ We shall 
never lack those who persecute Christ in us, even 
though they proudly attack us in the name of 
Christ.” The opposition was given an opportunity 
to show the genuineness of their zeal. “‘ Is this 
not the fire that proves the character of each man’s 
work, whether he goes into battle for the honour of 
this world or of Christ? . . . I believe that the 
Church, as it was brought forth in blood, so can be 
restored by blood and in no other way.” Luther 
was the protagonist of the fight he and other friends 
of light and learning and Bible truth were waging.’ 
Of Luther Zwingli says: “‘ I fear very little for the 
life of Luther, not at all for his courage, even if the 


1 Bullinger, i., 32. 

#VII., 142 sgq. 

3 Luther’s condemnation by the theologians of Louvain, Cologne, 
and Paris comes in for mention in this correspondence (vii., 121, 129). 


148 Huldreich Zwingli [1520- 


bolt of that Jupiter [the Bull of excommunication 
by the Pope] be launched against him.” Then 
follow these specially interesting sentences, showing 
Zwingli’s friendly footing with the hierarchy in Swit- 
zerland, and his own cheerful courage: 


‘‘ Within a few days I will go to the papal Legate 
[Pucci], and if he shall open a conversation on the sub- 
ject as he did before, I will urge him to warn the Pope 
not to issue an excommunication [against Luther], which 
I think would be greatly against him [the Pope]. For if 
it be issued I believe the Germans will equally despise 
the Pope and the excommunication.’ But do you be of 
good cheer, for our day will not lack those who will teach 
Christ faithfully, and who will give up their lives for Him 
willingly, even though among men their names shall not 
be in good repute after thislife. . . . Sofaras Iam 
concerned I look for all evil from all of them: I mean 
both ecclesiastics and laymen. I beseech Christ for this 
one thing only, that He will enable me to endure all 
things courageously, and that He break me as a potter’s 
vessel or make me strong, as it pleases Him. If I be 
excommunicated * I shall think of the learned and holy 

' Unknown to Zwingli the Bull of excommunication had been 
issued by the Pope, Leo X., on June 15, 1520. It did not reach 
Switzerland until July, and Zwingli, through his influence with 
William 4 Falconibus, secretary to the papal Legate, Anthony Pucci, 
and with the Bishop of Constance, delayed the official deliverance 
in Zurich until October. It was October before it reached Witten- 
berg. On October 15th it was only a rumour in Mainz (vii., 148), 
but on December 2Ist the writings of Luther were burned there 
(vii., 157). A complete English translation of this Bull was made 
by Rey. Dr. H. E. Jacobs and appears in his life of Luther in this 


series, pp. 413-435. 
2 So this was his anprehenetont in consequence of his well-known sup- 
port of doctrines precisely similarto Luther’s and so classed as Lutheran, 


1321] Preparing for the Reformation 149 


Hilary, who was exiled from France to Africa,’ and of 
Lucius, who though driven from his seat at Rome re- 
turned again with great honour.? Not that I compare 
myself with them: for as they were better than I so they 
suffered what was a greater ignominy. And yet if it 
were good to glory I would rejoice to suffer insult for the 
name of Christ. But let him that thinketh he standeth 
take heed lest he fall. Lately I have read scarcely any- 
thing of Luther’s; but what I have seen of his hitherto 
does not seem to me to stray from gospel teaching. 
You know — if you remember — that what I have always 
spoken of in terms of the highest commendation in him 
is that he supports his position with authoritative wit- 
nesses.’ ® 


In the conclusion of this interesting letter he tells 
his friend of his intention to resume the study of 
Hebrew,—which he had begun at Einsiedeln,—and 
so he had ordered from Basel the Rudiments of 
Capnio, as he styles him who is better known now as 
Reuchlin, the famous Humanist.* But he had made 


1 Bishop of Poitiers, 353-368 ; banished to Phrygia, 356; returned 
364. 

* Bishop of Rome, 253-254, banished almost immediately upon 
his election, but soon returned. 

3 Zwingli is here, as always, the critic, not the follower, of Luther, 
and as he came to the same positions simultaneously or perhaps 
previously, at all events independently, it was wrong ever to dub 
him with the name of Luther, and he resented it. See his remarks 
in his exposition of the Articles of 1523, 1., 253 sgq. 

4 De rudimentis Hebraicis was printed at Reuchlin’s expense by 
Thomas Anselm at Pforzheim, sixteen miles north-east of Carlsruhe, 
in 1506, and the entire edition was sold to Amerbach at the rate of 
three copies for one gulden. It was, however, a very slow seller. See 
G. H. Putnam, Books and their Makers in the Middle Ages (N. Y., 


1897), ii., 172. 


150 Huldreich Zwingli [1520- 


a similar start in 1519,’ and this time again he prob- 
ably did not make much progress, for on March 25, 
1522, he writes to Rhenanus: ‘‘ Tell Pellican that I 
have begun Hebrew. Ye gods, how distasteful and 
melancholy a study! But I shall persist until I get 
something out of it.”* Another interesting letter, 
in which he expresses his profound Christian faith, 
and shows that he had in the school of sorrow over 
his brother, and of anxiety over personal affairs, 
learned the lesson of faith and dependence on God, 
is that to Haller.* 

The relations between the Pope and the Swiss was 
a very live topic in Zwingli’s day. The Cardinal of 
Sitten, Ennius, Pucci, and high members of the 
papal party endeavoured to secure mercenaries from 
Zurich. Zwingli preached against the business,* but 
at first he was not heeded. At last the pitiful treat- 
ment the Zurich contingent received convinced 
Zurich that the Pope was not a more desirable mas- 
ter than any other prince, and that his battles were 
not a whit holier, and so in 1522 Zurich withdrew 
from the mercenary business altogether, and en- 
deavoured to dissuade the other cantons from con- 
tinuing in it. 

The margins of Zwingli’s books are covered with 
annotations. These have been deciphered as far as 


SSee paras 

* VII., 194. The helps to this study were then very meagre, more 
so than for Greek. 

SNR AES S: 

4See the summary of his sermons from Bullinger in Zwingli’s 
Works, ii., 2, 350-352, already translated in this volume, pp. 136-139. 


15321] Preparing for the Reformation 151 


possible, and the claim is made, on the strength of 
these decipherments, that after 1519 he adopted 
Lutheran views upon sin and grace.’ 

In the early part of 1521, Zwingli was sick with a 
fever.” That summer he went to Urdorf, seven and 
a half miles west from Zurich, then a popular resort.* 

He was neither a member of the chapter of the 
cathedral nor a citizen of the Republic of Zurich 
until, on April 29, 1521, he succeeded Dr. Heinrich 
Engelhard as canon of the Great Minster, which 
position carried citizenship with it. Thereby he 
increased his income by seventy gulden, and this 
made up for the loss of the papal pension of fifty 
gulden, which he had renounced in 1520.* He re- 
ceived the hearty congratulations of his friends on 
his advancement. The action’ was a proof of rare 
friendship on Engelhard’s part. 

1 This tedious and difficult labour was performed by Usteri with 
great patience and skill. See Usteri, ‘‘ Initia Zwinglii,” in Theolo- 
gische Studien und Kritiken (Gotha, 1885, 4th part, pp, 607-672; 
1886, Ist part, pp. 95-159; also separately reprinted), 

Supple p30: 

2V IL sr. 

4 See pp. 114 sgg. 

5 VII., 175, 182. The following is the text of the appointment, 
translated from the original Latin as given in Egli, Analecta Refor- 
muatoria, 1., 22-24: 

‘* Appointment of the People's Priest Master Huldreich Zwingh 

to be Canon at the Grossmuenster in Zurich, April 29, 1521. 


‘In the name of the Lord, Amen. 

‘In the one thousand five hundred and twenty-first year from 
the birth of the same Lord, and the ninth indiction, upon Monday, 
the twenty-ninth of April, at eight o’clock in the morning or there- 
abouts, in the ninth year of the pontificate of our Most Holy Father 
and Lord in Christ, Leo X., by divine providence Pope, in the 


152 Huldreich Zwingli [1520- 


So far he had not published anything. He had, 
however, written two political pamphlets in 1519, 
one on the avarice of the Pope and the cardinals, 
and the other a dialogue on the plague,’ which had 
the approval of the learned except that it was 


chapter chamber of the church of the Holy Martyrs Felix and 
Regula at Zurich, diocese of Constance and province of Mainz, 
personally appeared before me as notary public, in presence of the 
witnesses named below, my eminent, noble, worshipful, and wise 
lords, the provost and capitulary canons of the said provostship of 
Zurich in chapter assembled and convened, holding session and 
forming the party of the first part, and the worshipful gentleman 
Domine Huldreich Zwingli, Master of Arts, occupying the post of 
people’s priest in the said church and provostship, party of the 
second part. Said Domine Master Zwingli made humble petition 
to the said honourable provost and chapter that they would deign 
faithfully before God to bestow upon him the post of canon and pre- 
bendary in their church, lying vacant at present in the hands of said 
honourable provost and chapter of the provostship of Zurich (through 
the voluntary resignation of the eminent gentleman, Master Heinrich 
Engelhard, Doctor of Decrees, canon and prebendary of the abbey 
of Zurich and legal possessor of the post of canon and prebendary 
aforesaid in our church). Said honourable provost and chapter there- 
fore have, after mature deliberation, in the name of God, bestowed 
and conferred upon said Master Huldreich Zwingli, with all possible 
binding force and process of law, said post of canon and prebendary, 
vacant as aforesaid through voluntary resignation, together with full 
canonical rights and all rights and privileges thereto pertaining, and 
have admitted him into the post of canon and prebendary aforesaid, 
and received and accepted him as brother and fellow-canon, and said 
honourable Master Huldreich Zwingli, having solemnly sworn upon 
the Holy Gospel, with his hand upon the Sacred Scriptures, to ob- 
serve the statute beginning ‘ These are the articles, etc.’, read aloud 
to him phrase by phrase by me as notary, as also the other statutes 
and usages of said church of the provostship of Zurich, said honour- 
able provost, whose function it is recognised to be to induct the 
canons into their office, presently gave and assigned to said Master 


I 'VII,, 104, 


121] Preparing for the Reformation 153 


thought to be too bitter; and in 1521 he speaks of 
preparing for the press some sermons on faith and 
on saint worship.’ In a letter to Myconius dated 
May 17, 1521, he thus tells of his connection with 
a publication: ; 


Huldreich Zwingli a place in the chapter, and then the worshipful and 
wise Master George Heggentzi, custodian and senior canon of the 
aforesaid provostship, in the name of said honourable provost, led the 
same Master Zwingli into the choir, and gave and assigned to him a 
seat in the same with full canonical rights, thus sending, putting, and 
introducing the same Master Huldreich into material, real, and 
actual possession, as it were, of said post of canon and prebendary, 
and completely furnishing Master Huldreich Zwingli thus inducted 
with all requisite information in regard to all the fruits and revenues, 
returns, rights, and income of the post of canon and prebendary, ob- 
serving the due and usual ceremonies and cautions, in respect to all 
of which as aforesaid the said honourable Master Huldreich Zwingli 
begged me, the undersigned notary public, to prepare for him all 
the necessary public documents in presence of the honourable gentle- 
men, Masters Caspar Mantz and Johann Murer, presbyters and 
chaplains of said church of the provostship of Zurich, especially 
invited and requested to attend the proceedings. 

‘‘T, Johann Widmer, presbyter of the diocese of Constance, 
chaplain of the church of the Holy Martyrs Felix and Regula in the 
provostship of Zurich, notary public by authority of the Holy Em- 
pire, and sworn clerk of my eminent, noble, wise, and worshipful 
canonical lords, the provost and chapter of the said provostship, 
having been present with the before named witnesses at the petition, 
appointment, admission, reception, acceptance, oath-taking, induct- 
ing, installation, and all and each of the aforesaid proceedings, and 
having seen and heard them done and accomplished as aforesaid, 
have, therefore, prepared this present public document, and written 
it with my own hand, and signed and sealed it with my regular and 
proper seal and name in witness, confirmation, and testimony of all 
above written, as requested, bidden, and specially summoned to do.” 

1VII., 187; cf. 189. They were never published. The latter 
topic he debated with Lambert in 1522. See p 170, 


154 Huldreich Zwingli fied 


‘‘ The argumentative poem on The Mill (which appears 
on the first sheet of paper enclosed) was put into shape 
and sent to me by a certain Rhetian,’ a layman who is 
very learned in the Scriptures, for one unacquainted with 
Latin. Heis Martin Saenger. I indeed having examined 
the argument thought that what he had rather infelici- 
tously applied to Luther was more properly applied to 
Christ and God. But since I had not leisure sufficient 
to put measures together, I turned the poem itself over 
to Johann Fuessli, that somewhat deaf master metal- 
founder, who lives in the village of Rennweg.’ He is the 
man (that you may know exactly who he is) who used to 
stand on my left as I preached from the pulpit; and you 
will notice that he has used some of my own words which 
he has caught up and imitated (as often happens) be- 
cause of his frequent listening to my discourses. He 
made all the measures in words indeed which some . 
wanted to quote to carry their point that the work was 
mine, until I admonished the man that he should suffer 
the thing to be known as his own work, for there was 
no peril to fear from our people. Still I did this—I 
showed him many places in Scripture which he diligently 
studied, and he prepared the framework in my company. 
I was greatly pleased at the simplicity and clearness of 
his discourse, nay, he brought it about that his speech 
should be really Swiss, so that it was thrown off with 

The seal of the notary was a shield divided diagonally from left to 
right, upon a short tree, the lower field black, the upper yellow, with 
a black lion rampant facing towards the left. Under this in two 
lines, between ruled lines; ‘‘ Johannis Widmer presibteri de Thurego 
auctoritate imperiali notari publici” ([seal] ‘‘of John Widmer, 
presbyter of Zurich, notary public by imperial authority)”. 

1 An inhabitant of the Swiss canton Grisons. 


> This was the name given to a hamlet by Bubikon, twenty-one 
miles south-east of Zurich on the north shore of the Lake of Zurich. 


1s2t] Preparing for the Reformation 155 


great swiftness but needing correction. I fixed the form 
of it with him and the first measure, and I made the title 
— but besides this I did nothing.”’ 


The piece was finally published anonymously.’ 

In the latter half of 1520, at all events, as the 
contents show, before the coronation of Charles V., 
which took place on October 22nd, there appeared 
anonymously, and without date or place of publica- 
tion, a Latin pamphlet entitled, ‘‘ Advice of one who 
desires witn his whole heart that due consideration 
be paid both to the dignity of the pope and to the 
peaceful development of the Christian religion.” * It 
has an extraordinary Appendix, being nothing less 
than “A defence of Martin Luther by Christ our 
Lord, addressed to the city of Rome.” Although at - 
first sight it seems highly improbable that Zwingli 
had anything to do with the pamphlet, as it is not at 
allin his style, yet all doubt vanishes before the fact 
that the draft of it in Zwingli’s handwriting is to 
be seen to-day in the Zurich cantonal archives. It 
treats Luther in a kindly, condescending way, and 
advises that an impartial commission go through his 
books and also examine him orally, and then pass 
final judgment upon him. As an alternative plan a 
General Council might be called. The ‘* Defence”’ 
is a terrible arraignment of the Roman bishop in 


1It is reprinted in Oscar Schade’s Satiren und Pasquille aus der 
Reformationszeit, 2nd edition, Hanover, 1863, 1., 19-26. 

2 TII., 1-6; cf. allusion to it in his address to the German princes 
(iii., 78). See the discussion of its authorship by G. Finsler in 
Zwingliana, 1899, No. 2, pp. 113-115. 


156 Huldreich Zwingli [1520- 


proof that Luther spoke only the truth about the 
Church. 

Perhaps the subject which may be said to be that 
which first introduced the Reformation into Zurich 
was that of tithes. Zwingli declared that they were 
not of divine authority, and that their payment 
should be voluntary. But as tithes were an import- 
ant part of the ecclesiastical revenue, he was striking 
a serious blow at the further maintenance of the 
cathedral. No wonder that his brother clergy were 
alarmed. They knew all too well that voluntary 
payments of tithes or of any other moneys were sure 
to be small. It requires long education before wor- 
shippers will voluntarily support religion. Writing 
to Myconius on February 16, 1520, Zwingli thus 
_ alludes to the stir his teaching had caused: 


‘*Our provost has poured forth some venomous stuff 
which he has committed to permanent form so that it 
might be retained. He wrote a letter to me in which he 
said that tithes were of divine right. I had controverted 
this publicly, in Latin, however, not in German. Like- 
wise he informs me that the truth is not to be spoken 
at all times, doubtless thinking that nothing evil ought 
to be said against the priests. He pleads from the 
market-place that I should not furnish arms to laymen 
to use against the clergy.’’ * 


The next step in the advance towards the Re- 
formation in Zurich was the simplification of the 


'VII., 116 sg. On March 17, 1520, Hedio, in Basel, promises to 
send him a tract by Gabriel on tithes (vii., 121, 132). Probably 
Gabriel Biel is meant. 


1s2r] Preparing for the Reformation 157 


breviary as used in the cathedral. This went into 
effect on June 27, 1520. Those of the clergy that 
adhered to the regular church forms and the con- 
servative people generally were disturbed, and the 
Little Council, which was a very conservative body, 
alarmed at the radicalism which was fomented by 
Zwingli, passed a vaguely worded resolution against 
““ novelties and human inventions” in preaching, 
which was aimed at him. A little later he again 
manifested his independent and reforming spirit by 
criticising the department of outdoor relief in the 
city, and proposing on September 8, 1520, that the 
public alms should hereafter be given only to those 
who had been investigated, and could show actual 
need. One test of the ‘‘ worthiness’’ of the appli- 
cants for relief was their ability to repeat the Lord’s 
Prayer, the Ave Maria, and the Ten Command- 
ments!’ 


1Egli, Actensammlung, No. 132, pp. 25-31. 


CHAPTER VI Ns 
THE REFORMATION BEGINS 
1522 


HE year 1522 is that in which the Reformation 
began in Zurich. 

The course of Zwingli’s development to preach 
such an intellectual creed as that of Protestantism 
can be traced. Hecame of avery intelligent family 
on both sides, and was so uncommonly bright as a 
child that the propriety of educating him was mani- 
fest. In the providence of God that education was 
from the start at the direction of his father’s brother, 
who had progressive ideas; and as the same uncle 
kept him from the baleful influences of monasticism, 
he came to early manhood a cultured Humanist and 
not a monk or a hidebound scholastic or a fanatical 
ignoramus. His first charge was such an important 
one that he at once had to exert himself, while his 
scholarly ambition incited him to diligent use of 
every opportunity to increase his learning. As a 
very important factor he learned Greek, and this 
enabled him to go to the sources of much informa- 
tion which in a more or less imperfect form had 
been brought to his attention in Latin translation. 
Being a Humanist, he naturally sought the company 
of Humanists, and so his contempt for medizval 

158 


1522] The Reformation Begins 159 


teaching was increased, and under the instruction 
of the great prince among Humanists, Erasmus, he 
came to common-sense views in theology and know- 
ledge of monastic arrogance and ignorance. Being 
also an ardent Swiss, he deprecated whatever tended 
to deteriorate the Swiss character, chief of which 
bad influences was the mercenary traffic, and being 
a bold man and believing that the pulpit was just 
the place to discuss public questions, especially such 
as had a moral bearing, he preached against the 
practice. This stirred up so much opposition in 
Glarus, which was quite a centre of the business of 
hiring mercenaries, that he was compelled to seek 
another place. Impressed on a visit with the ad- 
vantages in the way of study and acquaintance of 
Einsiedeln, he applied for a position there, and was 
successful. There an ample library was at his serv- 
ice; there he revelled in literary and distinguished 
society, and there he came in touch with leaders of 
many lands, so that the misfortunes which drove 
him to seek refuge there were really fortunes of 
inestimable worth. 

A broad-minded, highly educated, independent, 
thoughtful, determined man, and withal turned in 
the direction of ecclesiastical freedom, he came to 
Zurich. There he played from the beginning an 
important part, with increased independence. The 
Scriptures became of more and more account and the 
Fathers and the Schoolmen of less. It was but a 
step from the placing of the latter among fallible 
teachers to take the position that only what the 
Scriptures demanded should be demanded. But 


160 Huldreich Zwingli [xs22 


where had the Scriptures demanded the payment of 
tithes, and where fasting in Lent ? Where did Lent 
come in, anyway ? So with many other ceremonies 
and observances of the Church. And these doubts 
and questions he brought to the attention of his 
congregation. His conduct in doing so was the 
subject of passionate complaint by Canon Konrad 
Hofmann, in December, 1521, to the chapter of the 
Grossmiinster.* 

Ash Wednesday, the first day of Lent, came in 
the year 1522 on the 12th of March. It was later 
noised through the city that some of his congrega- 
tion had made application of his teaching respecting 
fasting during the forty days in the direction of open 
violation of the enjoined fast. They declared that 
if it was not required by Scripture, they would not 
fast. Such conduct quickly brought them in con- 
tact with the civil authority, which was the servant 
of the Church.? Best known of these bold innov- 
ators was Christopher Froschauer, Zurich’s great 
printer, who ate meat with his workmen on the plea 
that an unusually heavy press of work compelled 
them to take nourishing food! * 

Zwingli did not himself offend, but he assumed 


1 See Egli, Actensammlung, No. 213. 

? Disputes about the matter led to street fighting, cf. Egli, Acten- 
sammlung, No, 232, trials of the offenders, zdid., 233. 

3 Defence of Froschauer before the City Council, Egli, Acten- 
sammlung, No. 234. On April 27th a friend informed Zwingli that 
some priests at Basel ate a sucking pig on Palm Sunday (vii., 196). 
The incident made quite a stir, and perhaps this rather impudent 
exhibition of independence did more harm than good, So thought 
Loriti, cf. vii., 197. 


1522] The Reformation Begins 161 


full responsibility for this conduct of his parishion- 
ers, who had before the Council quoted him as their 
authority. On March 30th of that year, 1522, 
which was the third Sunday in Lent,’ he preached 
a sermon which he published on Wednesday, April 
16th, upon “‘ Selection or Liberty respecting Foods; 
on Offence and Scandal; whether there is any Au- 
thority for forbidding Meat at certain Times.” ? 

The Council debated the matter of. fasting, and 
finally passed a compromise measure to the effect 
that while it is true that the New Testament makes 
no distinction among foods, yet for the sake of 
peace, so dear to Christ, the fasting ordinance should 
be obeyed until abrogated or modified by authority, 
and the people’s priests as pastors of the three par- 
ishes of the city, namely, the Grossmiinster, the 
Fraumiinster, and St. Peter’s, should dissuade the 
people from all violation of the ordinance.’ 

When the bruit of this revolt against ecclesiastical 
authority and of the temporising order of the Coun- 
cil reached the Bishop of Constance, he saw that it 
was high time to do something to restrain the wan- 
dering city. So he sent a commission to investi- 
gate. Zwingli gives in a letter to Erasmus Fabricus* 
avery graphic account of the subsequent proceed- 
ings, which is here summarised: On Monday, April 
7th (1522), the commission, consisting of Mel- 
chior Wattli, D.D., the suffragan bishop; Johann 


1 See his statement, Appendix to this volume, p. 062. 
2 Given in full in the Appendix to this volume, pp. 0028 sg¢. 
8 Egli, Actensammlung, No. 235. 
SAEED, O=kOs 
ass 


162 Huldreich Zwingli [1522 


Wanner, the cathedral preacher of Constance, and 
favourable to Reformation ideas ; and Nicholas 
Brendlin, D.D., appeared in Zurich. Early the 
next day they assembled the clergy, and the suf- 
fragan laid the episcopal commands upon them not 
to depart from the old order. He did not mention 
the name of Zwingli in his address, but so plainly 
meant him all along as the cause of all the trouble 
in Zurich that Zwingli felt justified in replying on 
the spot, more particularly as he perceived “‘ from 
their sighs and their pale and silent faces that some 
of the weaker priests who had recently been won for 
Christ had been troubled by the tirade.’’ The 
commission then appeared before the Little Coun- 
cil, and the suffragan delivered the same address, 
again omitting purposely all mention of Zwingli by 
name. As Zwingli-did not belong to the Little 
Council, he could not be present at their meetings 
without invitation, and none was given him then. 
At the conclusion of the suffragan’s address the 
Little Council voted to call a meeting the next morn- 
ing of the Great Council, consisting of two hundred 
members, to take action on the bishop’s complaint, 
but in the resolution it was expressly ordered that 
the three people’s priests should be excluded. This 
latter action Zwingli was anxious to have recon- 
sidered and rescinded. To this end he brought all 
his influence to bear with the members of the body, 
but in vain. He also tried to win over the com- 
mission itself. But, equally unsuccessful here, he 
betook himself to prayer, and lo! the next morning 
when the Great Council met, Wednesday, April 















































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































KEY. 


A. Gross-Miinster (Great Minster), the cathedral of 
which Zwingli was people’s priest. 

B. Frau-Miinster (Minster of Our Lady), the cathe- 
dral on the opposite side of the Limmat, of 
which Engelhard was chief. 


C. St. Peter’s church, of which Leo Jud was pastor. 








































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































rm 


gnu 


wu 


KEY. 
D. 


E. 


ee 
G. 
H. 








Dominican Friars’ Church. 

City Hall. 

The Water church, at present the city library. 
Oettenbach Nunnery, later Orphanage and church, 


Corn Exchange. 





1522] The Reformation Begins 163 


gth, the people in true democratic fashion demanded 
that their people’s priests should be admitted, and 
the Great Council outvoted the Little Council in 
their favour, and so Zwingli’s heart’s desire was 
given to him, and he heard what was said against 
him before the Council. The suffragan a third time 
made his speech. This time Zwingli took notes. 
These were some of the points the suffragan made: 
Certain persons (unnamed) were teaching new ob- 
noxious and seditious doctrines; to wit, that no 
human prescriptions and no ceremonials ought to be 
regarded, although they were a guide to virtue; 
also that Lent ought not to be kept. Consequently 
some had eaten flesh in Lent. Such conduct was 
evidently not permitted by the Gospels, the Fathers, 
nor the Councils. The antiquity’of the custom of 
fasting during Lent was a plain proof that it was in- 
spired by the Holy Ghost. The Council must re- 
main with and in the Church, for outside of it was 
no salvation. The objectionable doctrines could 
not be defended, as they rested on no foundation. 
It was the duty of the people’s priests to teach the 
old truths. Moreover, it was obligatory on Christ- 
ians to avoid giving offence. Nor should anyone 
trust his own reason, but all should hear the Church. 

As the commission had been charged to avoid de- 
bate, especially with Zwingli, after the suffragan 
had made his speech they essayed to leave. But 
the Swiss sense of fairness prevailed, and they were 
compelled to stay while Zwingli made his defence, 
which he did at considerable length, taking up the 
suffragan’s speech point by point. Still even he did 


164 Huldreich Zwingli [1522 


not advise breaking abruptly with the Church, but, 
like Luther at that time, told the people to bide the 
time of the coming reformation. 

The Council by vote reaffirmed its former injunc- 
tion on the people’s priests, but coupled it with a 
request of the Bishop of Constance to assemble his 
clergy and come with them to some agreement as 
to what might be preached in his diocese.’ 

The bishop must have been dissatisfied with the 
results of his commission, and so a little later he 
sent letters to his clergy to the cathedral chapter 
(May 22, 1522) and to the Zurich City Council 
(Saturday, May 24, 1522), urging these bodies to 
suppress heresy. Still Zwingli’s name was not 
mentioned. 

On Sunday, April 27th, the Swiss mercenaries 
were defeated at La Bicocca, near Milan, in Italy, 
and the news gave so much point to Zwingli’s oppos- 
ition to the foreign service that when the Council 
learned that the cantonal assembly was about to 
meet at Schwyz, they asked him to do his best to 
discourage the pensionaries who were sure to be 
present and try to persuade the canton to let them 
have more troops. So Zwingli rushed through the 
press a hastily written pamphlet, which bears the 
title, ‘‘ An earnest exhortation addressed to the 
Confederates not to suffer themselves to come into 
dishonour through the wiles of their foes.’”’? The 


' Bullinger, i., 705g. Egli, Actensammlung, No. 236. Zwingli 
retells the story of the commission in a letter to Myconius, undated, 
but certainly in June. See vii., 202 sg. 

*I1., 2, 286-298. It is dated May 16, 1522, which was the day 


1522] The Reformation Begins 165 


pamphlet glows with the brightest fires of patriot- 
ism and Christian zeal. In the most moving man- 
ner he pleads with his fellow-countrymen not to 
allow the pensionaries to persuade them that any 
good could come from a traffic which has been 
fraught with so many evils to the Swiss. He shows 
on Scriptural and historical grounds how a good 
conscience gives strength to a small people-in the 
midst of its foes. Incidentally it presents an 
effective plea for peace. The first effect of the 
pamphlet was to capture the assembly, and the 
pensionaries were defeated. But in August of that 
year they induced the Diet to reverse its action, 
and Zurich for thus attempting to interfere in the 
Diet had henceforth no more determined foe than 
Schwyz.’ 

On July ist the Bishop of Constance induced the 
Swiss annual Diet at Baden to pass a mandate pro- 
hibiting the preaching of the Reformation doctrines.’ 

On July 2, 1522, there was signed at Einsiedeln a 
very earnest “* Petition of certain preachers of Swit- 
zerland to the Most Reverend Lord Hugo, Bishop 
of Constance, that he will not suffer himself to be 
persuaded to make any proclamation to the injury 
of the Gospel, nor longer endure the scandal of 


when the intelligence of the approaching assembly reached Zurich. 
There is in it no hint that the suggestion to write it came from out- 
side ; that, however, is the probable conjecture of the modern editors 
of Zwingli’s works. 

1 Haller, on July 8, 1522 (vii., 207), writing from Bern told 
Zwingli that his pamphlet had a bad name in Bern and that its 
dedication to the Swiss exclusively was resented by the pensionaries. 

2 Bullinger, i., 79. 


166 Huldreich Zwingli | [1522 


harlotry, but allow the priests to marry wives, or at 
least to wink at their marriages,’’' and on July 13, 
1522, a similar but not identical petition, entitled 
“A friendly request and exhortation of certain 
priests of the Confederacy that the preaching of the 
Gospel be not stopped, and that no one be offended 
if the priests, in order to avoid scandal, contract 
marriages.’’* The first was in Latin and had eleven 
signatures, of which Zwingli’s was the last, and was 
addressed to the bishop; the second was in German, 
as printed in Zwingli’s works bears no signatures 
(that it had signatures is, however, stated in its last 
paragraph), and was addressed to the government of 
the Confederacy. The two documents are so much 
alike and so much in Zwingli’s style that probably he 
was the sole author of them both.* Both documents 
assume that the party addressed is favourable to the 
preaching of the Gospel, and so inclined to listen to 
the petitioners’ plea for the removal of all hindrances 
to its free course. Butin both petitions these words 
about preaching the Gospel are preliminary to what 
is the true object of these petitions, viz., to obtain 
from the bishop permission to marry, and to dis- 
suade the government from opposing the permitted 
clerical marriages, if the bishop allowed them. In 

'TII., 17-25. 

2T., 30-51. 

3 Thus on July 7, 1522, Xylotectus, writing from Bern, tells him a 
story for use in the “‘ little book” he is writing on clerical marriages, 
in evident allusion to the German petition, and he suggests that a 
copy be sent to a preacher against such marriages (vii., 206), cf. 


vii., 208, quoted below. So, also, another correspondent calls him 
the author of the petition to the bishop (vii., 245). 


1522] The Reformation Begins 167 


both the doctrine is taught that chastity in a man 
cannot be preserved unless he have the supernatural 
gift our Lord is supposed by the petitioners to 
allude to in Matthew xix., 10-12! They very 
honestly, and with expressions of shame and peni- 
tence, confess that they have violated the law of 
chastity very often, but they plead in extenuation of 
these offences that God had not seen fit to give them 
the gift of continence. But as it seems to them that 
the fact that they live unchastely is prejudicial 
to the Gospel, and is the occasion of much trouble 
and reproach to them, they desire permission of the 
bishop to marry, and also protection for married 
priests from the State. There is not a scintilla of 
evidence that the priests who signed these petitions 
were a whit worse than the other priests about them. 
What they wanted was permission to contract law- 
ful marriages. Zwingli at the time he drew up these 
petitions was living in “‘ clerical ’’’ marriage, a union 
unsanctioned by the Church, but one so connived 
at and also condoned by public sentiment that the 
woman he was living with was called his wife.’ 


1 See Chap. XI. for more upon this point. As the practices of these 
Swiss clergy so candidly revealed by these petitions were those of men 
who were at the time in good and regular standing in the Church, they 
must be considered as specimens of the results of their training, 
and so the less the advocates of the Roman Catholic Church have to 
say on the subject the better for them. It is part of the unhappy 
bondage of that Church that its members are debarred from criticising 
it freely, but are, on the other hand, obliged to defend its practices, 
even in denying marriage to its clergy. Roman Catholic writers like 
Janssen (Geschichte des Deutschen Volkes, iii., 89, 90, note; An 
meine Kritiker, 127-145, and Lin gweites Wort, 46-48) have made the 


168 Huldreich Zwingli [1522 


Of course, these petitions led to no action by 
those addressed, nor could the signers have expected 
to do more than to educate public sentiment so 
that their own contemplated marriages might be less 
opposed.’ By coming out so boldly and confessing 
so humbly, they attested the possession of great 
courage. Both petitions were printed in Zurich 
together and sent by Zwingli to the Bishop of Con- 
stance.” Zwingli’s correspondence shows how active 
he was in distributing them, apparently in part for 
signature, and how he viewed signing them. On 
July 19th he writes to Myconius: 


“*T send you these petitions which you know all about, 
but they come a week later than I could have wished. 
Still it could not be managed in any other way. Do you 
circulate them as shall be desirable, for so Jodocus 


most out of Zwingli’s confession. Yes, he was unchaste. But what 
does that show? He was brought up in the same Church with those 
who criticise him. They accept his testimony regarding himself and 
his companions. Now let them accept this further testimony of his 
which is vouched for by Canon Hofmann in 1521 (cf. Egli, Acten- 
sammlung, No. 213, p. 62): ‘‘Among a hundred or a thousand 
spiritual persons, priests, monks, nuns, Brothers and Sisters, and 
such like, who promise chastity and have promised to be chaste, 
scarcely a single one can be found who is not habitually unchaste.” 
He put the permission of clerical unchastity by the payment of money 
among the Articles on which he was prepared to speak in the First 
Disputation (January, 1523), and on which he expatiated in print 
(art. 49, 1., 156, commentary, i., 378, 379). Or was Zwingli truthful 
respecting himself but untruthful respecting others? Let Zwingli 
_stand condemned, but let his fellow-priests equally guilty stand in 
the pillory with him ! : 
1 Cf. what Myconius says, p. 169. 
CFs tey SLs 


1522] The Reformation Begins 169 


Kilchmeier* and I have decided. I am not able to 
write to Xylotectus [z. ¢., Joannes Zimmermann] now 
because I am so busy. Tell him, however, that he 
has given no offence by withholding his name’: on the 
contrary this is in accordance with the judgment of us 
all. For we prefer that the affair be carried on quietly 
and that it should be done gradually rather than all at 
once, especially since there are some who fight against it 
so fiercely. For the sake of Christ even one’s own wife 
will have to be abandoned, but Heaven forbid! It is 
better that Xylotectus in the character of Gamaliel 
should be able to say to the Senate: ‘ Separate from those 
men,’ etc., rather than that he should be driven from the 
city. I have come to feel hopeful, although there is little 
room for persuasion among our people for rage is broad.° 


1 Kilchmeier’s name to the petition brought him into trouble (vii., 
245). He had married and to save his wife’s persecution he sent her 
to Zurich to be under Zwingli’s care (vii., 248, 249). 

? He requested this, vii., 203. It may be remembered that a Wolf- 
gang Zymmermann, as the name was spelled, was a signer of the 
petition given on p. 73 of this volume. He may have been a relative. 

3 VII., 208, 209. Myconius on July 22nd (vii., 209, 210) acknow- 
ledged the receipt of the petitions and promised to distribute them, 
and also ordered extra copies for Xylotectus. Under date of July 
28th (vii.,210, 211) he thus speaks of the reception the petitions 
met with in Lucerne: ‘* The good, whoare few in number, commend 
your little book ; others neither praise nor vituperate. I hear, how- 
ever, more blame than praise. They say that you have undertaken 
to do a thing which you will not be able to carry through. Others, 
that you must think the bishop stupid since you refer to him a 
thing which neither he nor the pope is able to permit, but only a 
Council. Others mutter—but these are all priests. What the com- 
mon people think I do not know. This I do know, all to a man are 
insane, not against you particularly, but against the Gospel. The 
rage of war fills everybody.” The references to these petitions in his 
correspondence of 1522 are comparatively numerous. C/, vii., 212, 


213, 242, 245. 


170 Huldreich Zwingli [1522 


On July 17th, Zwingli had a debate with Francis 
Lambert of Avignon, a Franciscan monk of twen- 
ty years’ standing, and prominent in the order. 
The subject was the Intercession of the Saints. 
Lambert had already imbibed Reformation ideas 
and was under the suspicion of his brethren, but 
had not yet left his order. In the debate Zwingli 
took the extreme Protestant position, and Lambert 
made but a feeble opposition. At the conclusion 
he expressed himself as Zwingli’s convert. The in- 
cident is interesting as showing that Zwingli had 
broken with the Old Church on a point of great 
practical importance." 

Zwingli thus expressed himself when writing on 
July 30th to Rhenanus upon his debate with Lam- 
bert, and upon his subsequent victory over the monks 
in Zurich: 


‘“You should know that a certain Franciscan from 
France, whose name indeed was Franz, was here not 
many days since and had much conversation with me 
concerning the Scriptural basis for the doctrine of the 
adoration of the saints and their intercession for us. He 
was not able to convince me with the assistance of a 


1 Francis Lambert was born in Avignon in 1486, and entered the 
Franciscan order there when fifteen years old. In 1522 he left his 
monastery by permission, ostensibly to carry letters to the general of 
the order. He went from Avignon to Lyons, thence to Geneva, 
thence to Bern, and on the recommendation of Haller came into 
friendly relations with Zwingli (vii., 206 207). Long previous to 
the debate Zwingli had preached on the topic and had meditated 
publishing his sermons, but he never did so. Cf. Haller’s letter of 
January 28, 1522 (vii., 189), in which he said that he was daily 
expecting to read Zwingli’s sermon on the worship of the saints. 


1522] The Reformation Begins 171 


single passage of Scripture that the saints do pray for us, 
as he had with a great deal of assurance boasted he 
should do. At last he went on to Basel,’ where he re- 
counted the affair in an entirely different way from the 
reality —in fact he lied about it. So it seemed good to 
me to let you know about these things that you might 
not be ignorant of that Cumzan lion, if perchance he 
should ever turn your way. 

“There followed within six days another strife with 
our brethren the preachers of the [different orders in 
Zurich, especially with the Augustinians]. Finally the 
burgomaster and the Council appointed for them three 
commissioners on whom this was enjoined—that Aquinas 
and the rest of the doctors of that class being put aside 
they should base their arguments alone upon those 
sacred writings which are contained in the Bible. This 
troubled those beasts so much that one brother, the 
father reader of the order of Preachers [7. ¢., the Do- 
minicans] cut loose from us, and we wept—as one weeps 
when a cross-grained and rich stepmother has departed 
this life. Meanwhile there are those who threaten, but 
God will turn the evil upon His enemies. 

‘““T suppose you have read the petition which some of 
us have addressed to the Bishop of Constance. 


1From Basel Lambert went to Eisenach. Early in 1523 in Witten- 
berg he was received by Luther and there he stayed fora year. In 
1524 he is found in Metz and Strassburg. In 1526 he was invited 
into Hesse by the Landgrave, Philip, and there he laboured so 
effectively for the Reformation as to win the epithet ‘* The Reformer 
of Hesse.” In theology he was a Zwinglian. In 1527 he became 
professor of theology in the newly founded University of Marburg, 
and died of the plague in that place on April 18, 1530. See his 
biography by F. W. Hassencamp, in vol. ix. of Leben und ausge- 
wihlte Schrifter der Viter und Begriinder der reformirten Kirche, 
Elberfeld, 1861 ; and by Louis Ruffet, Paris, 1873. 


172 Huldreich Zwingli [1522 


But I must return to Schuerer upstairs, where he is hav- 
ing some beer with several gentlemen and jokes will be 
injerders, 


Another step which showed advance in spiritual 
freedom in Zurich was permission to the secular 
clergy to preach in the nunneries’; where previously 
only Dominican monks had preached; and a still 
more decided one was the unanimous resolution of 
the Zurich clergy, on August 15th, not to preach 
anything which was not in the Bible.* 

On August 22, 1522, Zwingli signed the preface 
to the first considerable writing he ever issued, his 
defence against the bishop’s charges. It was en- 
titled Archeteles,* ‘‘ the beginning and the end,”’ 
because he meant to do the thing once for all. He 
had no desire to keep up a running fight, but rather 
by one blow to win his spiritual freedom. It is 
written in Latin, which, of course, curtailed its use- 
fulness. In an unsparing manner he exposes the 
unbiblical and anti-biblical nature of the exclusive 
claims and post-New Testament doctrines and prac- 
tices of the Western Church. He sent a copy to 
Erasmus, who wrote this characteristic acknowledg- 
ment °: 


‘‘T have read some pages of your apology [Archeteles]. 
I beseech you for the sake of the glory of the Gospel, 
which I know you would favour and which we all who 
bear the name of Christ ought to favour, if you should 


L Suppl, 31) 32. 

2 Bullinger, i., 77. Cf. pp. 173, 176 of this vol. 4TII., 26-76. 
> 7 Ppp 3 ’ 7 

Oe EXON 5 VII., 222, 223 (September 8, 1522). 


° 


1522] The Reformation Begins we 


issue anything hereafter, treat so serious a matter seri- 
ously, and bear in mind evangelical modesty and patience. 
Consult your learned friends before you issue anything. 
I fear that that apology will cause you great peril and 
will injure the Gospel. Even in the few pages that I 
have read there are many things I wanted to warn you 
about. I do not doubt that your prudence will take this 
in good part, for I have written late at night with a mind 
that is most solicitous for you. Farewell.’’ 


Zwingli availed himself of the permission to preach 
in the nunneries, and afterwards issued two sermons 
thus originally delivered.’ The first, dated Septem- 
ber 6, 1522, is upon the Bible, and has for its thesis 
that only the Holy Spirit is requisite to make the 
Word intelligible; no Church, no Council, much 
more no Pope is needed.’ 

The second sermon was on “‘ The Perpetual Vir- 
ginity of Mary the Mother of Jesus Christ our 
Saviour,”* which thesis Zwingli maintained, and 
thus adds his name to the honoured roll of Protest- 
ants who believe that Mary not only never had a 
second child, but remained an uncorrupted maid. 
He dedicated the sermon to his brothers who lived 
at Wildhaus, and published it September 17, 1522. 


1 Allusions to these sermons occur in his correspondence of this 
year. Other allusions in correspondence, vii., 243, 246. 

2 On the Perspicuity and Certainty, or Infallibility, of the Word 
of God” (i., 52-82). Stapfer praises it (vii., 234). In Schrift- 
deutsch by R. Christoffel, Zurich, 1843. The original hearers were 
Augustinian nuns of the Oetenbach convent in Zurich, A second 
edition of the sermon appeared in 1524, but judging from the preface 
to it Zwingli made small impression on the nuns. 

3T., 83-104. 


174 Huldreich Zwingli [1522 


He denies the doctrine of Mary’s intercession, but 
holds her up for imitation in purity, innocence, 
and faith. Under date of November 11, 1522, 
from Bern, Sebastian Meyer acknowle dyed the re- 
ceipt of his sermon on the “‘ Choice of Foods,”’ his 
petition relative to the marriage of the clergy, and 
his Archeteles, and sent him a copy of the Bishop of 
Constance’s pastoral letter, along with a comment- 
ary upon it, and requested Zwingli to edit it for the 
press. This request he probably acceded to. At 
all events, it appeared, but as there was considerable 
danger incurred by such publication, the place of 
publication was given as Hohenstein.* 

The revolt against episcopal authority and ecclesi- 
astical usages spread not only through the canton of 
Zurich, but into the neighbouring cantons. To be 
sure, the new doctrines were called ‘‘ Lutheran,’’ ° 
but then, they were accepted. 

In September, 1522, Zwingli went down to Ein- 
siedeln to preach during the Angelic Dedication.‘ 
He embraced the opportunity to preach the doctrines 
of faith in Christ and of the supremacy of the Scrip- 
tures as the only infallible source of religious know- 
ledge, which he had arrived at independently of 
Luther, and thus secure a dissemination of such 
doctrines all over Switzerland and Germany.° 

On January 9, 1522, Adrian VI., the Dutch 

1 Allusions to it in his correspondence of this year, vii., 244, 246. 

2VII., 242 sgq. 

NANA high Cros Pi 


* See pp. 99 599. 
5 Bullinger (i., 81) conjectures that he preached on the topics of his 
published sermons of the year, but this is mere guessing. 


1522] The Reformation Begins 175 


Pope, entered on his office. Known to him was the 
independent stand taken by Zurich, but shrewdly 
and kindly, for Adrian was a good man, he wrote 
to the Zurich authorities a pleasant letter, in which 
he expressed no blame, but on the contrary promised 
to pay the debt the papal treasury owed Zurich, 
when in funds. Well were it if it had been, for the 
money was not forthcoming, and the fact embittered 
the people against the papacy. 

On November 11, 1522, Sebastian Meyer reports 
from Bern that Zwingli had been forbidden to preach 
by the Zurich Senate.’ This was the shape in which 
the action of Zwingli in sacrificing his people’s 
priestship on November goth reached Bern. The 
resignation was made publicly from the pulpit on 
the ground that he could no longer discharge some 
of the duties connected with the office, as they were 
against his conscience.” The Senate allowed him to 
resign and someone else was chosen, at the same 
time it requested him to continue to preach. As it 
acted entirely without consultation with the bishop, 
it was a more pronounced act of independence than 
any yet ventured on. But more was to come; for 
next the Senate forbade pensions and mercenaries,’ 
and refused to give up to the bishop two pastors of 
evangelical opinions.* It introduced regulations for 
the better instruction of the children in religion. 


IVIT., 244. 

2 Eeli, A. S. (2. e., Actensammlung, this contraction will be for 
convenience used hereafter), No. 290. 

3 Tbid., 259, 293. 

4 Egli, 4. S., No. 270. 





176 Huldreich Zwingli [1522 


At the same time the Senate punished those who 
treated with ridicule the old order, and even Fro- 
schauer for putting on sale some satires on the hier- 
archy which he had brought from the Frankfort Fair." 
When some nuns, who pleaded that their vows were 
contrary to the Word, requested permission to leave 
the convent, the Senate ordered that they should 
stay till next spring and await the contemplated re- 
form. It took the convents out of the exclusive 
confessional control of the Dominicans and allowed 
the nuns to choose for their confessors whom they 
would.’ 

A friend, writing from Ravensburg, in Wurtem- 
berg, twenty-two miles east-north-east of Constance, 
had informed Zwingli, under date of November 2, 
1522, that at the Imperial Diet at Nuremberg that 
year it was declared that the Pope had four plans in 
hand: “‘ peace between Cesar and Pompey [z. ¢., be- 
tween the Emperor and the King of France]; the 
annihilation of the cause of Luther; the reform of the 
Church; and a war against the Turks.’’ This was 
the occasion of Zwingli’s Latin pamphlet, hastily 
written as usual,* entitled: “‘ A suggestion of the 


1 Egli, 4. S., No. 284. 
? Egli, A. S., No. 291, 298, 301. 


SVL 2a 
4 Zwingli, writing to Myconius on August 26, 1522, thus candidly 
describes his literary methods: ‘‘I am rough and impatient of the 


time necessary for condensing and polishing. You know that my 
mind is felicitous in nothing except invention, if indeed that is not 
the greatest infelicity which is either not willing or not able to 
adorn and polish and so render worthy of immortality what one has 
done in the way of invention. Yet when I imagine I have studied 


1522] The Reformation Begins 17? 


advisability of reflecting upon the proposal made 
by Pope Adrian to the princes of Germany at 
Nuremberg; written by one who has deeply at 
heart the welfare of the Republic of Christ in gen- 
eral and of Germany in particular.’’* It is charac- 
terised by Zwingli’s qualities of clear-mindedness, 
candour, modesty, and Christian zeal. It contains 
several skilful quotations of Scripture. It expresses 
great scepticism as to the reality of the alleged papal 
schemes except the crushing of Luther; and against 
that it utters an emphatic protest. No reformation 
could come from Rome. 

On December 4, 1522, Jodocus Kilchmeier sends 
for confirmation of the report that Zwingli had nar- 
rowly escaped death at the hands of two monks.’ 

On the Saturday before St. Thomas’s day, which 
is December 21st, and which in this year, 1522, fell 
upon Sunday, Zwingli preached an earnest sermon 
against pensions, which had the immediate effect 
that all those of the cathedral clergy who had pen- 
sions from the Pope or other potentate renounced 
them before the burgomaster.* The bruit of the 
religious revolt in Germany reached Zurich, and ex- 
cited the liveliest interest. The writings of Luther 
were in great demand, and Zwingli did his best to 


enough, a disgust at my own performance presently seizes me, and I 
feel such a loathing for what I have thus far written that reviewing 
it is likely to produce nausea.” (VII., 218, 219.) C/. his remarks 
to Vadian upon the extreme haste with which he rushed his books 
through the press. (VII., 333). 

1TII., 77-82. 

2VII., 249. 

3 Bullinger, i., 83. 

12 


178 Huldreich Zwingli [1522] 


circulate them. Thus there was gradually built up 
a strong party in favour of reform. In it were to 
be reckoned many members of the City Council. 
Under the circumstances great pressure was brought 
to bear upon the Council to take some more decided 
position upon the subject of ecclesiastical reform. 


CHAPTER VII 


THE REFORMATION DEFENDED 


1523 


N December 10, 1522, Oecolampadius of Basel 
wrote to Zwingli a very friendly letter in 
which he expressed an even extravagant admiration 
of Zwingli, based entirely upon report, as he had 
never met him.’ This was the beginning of a fre- 
quent and intimate correspondence, for the two 
became true yoke-fellows in the cause of the Reform- 
ation. Though living in different cities their rela- 
tion bears a resemblance to that between Luther 
and Melanchthon—in that Ocecolampadius was 
Zwingli’s wise counsellor and efficient coadjutor, 
yet distinctly of secondary importance. The first 
letter of Zwingli’s preserved, of the year 1523, is to 
Oecolampadius.* It is dated January 14th. He 
disclaims the latter’s praise, and with equal warmth 
commends his correspondent’s learning, piety, and 
zeal. To him he announces the “‘ contest ’’ which 
the Council had decreed, and rumour had it that 
John Faber, vicar-general of Constance, would be 
present. Then sarcastically he adds: ‘* May God 
bring it about that he be not held back, so that 
Save. 251, 252, 
eV IL 201. 





179 


180 Huldreich Zwingli [1523 


Rome and Constance may not be defrauded of their 

-accustomed triumphs . . . such as up to the 
present they have been able to carry off.’’ 

The “‘ contest ’’ is known in history as the first 
of the two religious disputations, which openly 
placed Zurich on the side of the Reformation, the 
second being held in October of the same year, 1523. 
The invitation to the first disputation was as follows: 


‘‘We, the Burgomaster, Council and the Great Coun- 
cil, as the Two Hundred of the city of Zurich are called, 
send to all and every people’s priest, pastor, curate, 
and preacher having parish and dwelling in our cities, 
country, dominion, upper and lower jurisdiction and 
territory, our salutation, favourable and gracious dis- 
position, and would have you to wit: Since now for along 
time much dissension and disagreement have existed 
among those preaching the Gospel to the common peo- 
ple, some believing that they have truly and completely 
delivered the gospel message, others reproving them as 
if they had not done it skilfully and properly. Conse- 
quently the latter cal] the former errorists, traitors, and 
even heretics, although they, desiring to do the best 
thing, and for the sake of the honour of God, peace and 
Christian unity, offer to give to everyone desiring it ac- 
count and proof of their doctrines out of Holy Script- 
ures. So this is our command, will, and desire: That ye 
pastors, curates, preachers, as a body and individually, 
if any especial priests desire to speak about this, having 
benefices in our city of Zurich, or otherwheres in our 
territory, or if any desire to reprove the other side, 
or otherwise to instruct them, appear before us on the 
day after Emperor Charles’s day, that is the nine and 
twentieth day of the month of January, at early Council 


1523] Lhe Reformation Defended 181 


time, in our city of Zurich and particularly in our Coun- 
cil House, and that those contending should do so, using 
the truly Divine Word in the German tongue and 
speech. There we with all diligence, with some scholars, 
if it seems good to us, will give attention, and, according 
to what shall prove itself to be consonant with Holy 
Scripture and truth, we shall send each and every one of 
you home with the command to continue or to abstain; 
so that from henceforth each one may not preach from 
the pulpit what seems to him good, without foundation 
in the true Holy Scripture. We shall also announce the 
same to our gracious lord [the Bishop] of Constance, so 
that his Grace or his representative, if he so desire, may 
also be present. But if anyone be contrarious and 
bring not in proof from the true, Holy Scripture with 
him we shall proceed further according to our know- 
ledge, in a way from which we would gladly be relieved. 
We are also of good hope in Almighty God that those 
earnestly seeking the light of truth He will so graciously 
illuminate with the same, that we may walk in the light 
as children of the light. 

‘“ Given and officially stamped with our secret seal, 
Saturday after the Circumcision of Christ [January 3] 
and after His birth in the three and twentieth year of the 
lesser reckoning.”’ * 


Before the time came, Pope Adrian VI. addressed 
to Zwingli the following letter: 


‘‘ Adrian, Pope, the sixth [of the name], to his dear 
son salutations and the Apostolical benediction: We 
send the venerable brother Ennius, Bishop of Verulam, 
our domestic prelate and Nuncio of the Apostolic See, a 


1T7., 115, 116; Egli, 4. S., No. 318. 


182 Huldreich Zwingli [1523 


man distinguished for prudence and fidelity, to that un- 
conquerable nation most completely linked unto us and 
to the Holy See, in order that he may treat with it re- 
specting things of the bighest importance to us and the 
Holy See, and to the entire Christian commonwealth. 
Although he is enjoined to conduct our affairs with your 
nation openly and in public, yet because we have a cer- 
tain knowledge of your distinguished merits and es- 
pecially love and prize your loyalty, and also place 
particular confidence in your honesty, we have commis- 
sioned this Bishop, our Nuncio, to hand over to you in 
private our letter, and declare our best intentions to- 
ward you. We exhort your devotion in the Lord, and 
that you have all confidence in Him, and with the same 
disposition, in which we are inclined to remember your 
honour and profit, to bestir yourself also in our affairs 
and in those of the Apostolic See. For which you will 
earn no small thanks from us. 

‘“Given at Rome at St. Peter’s, under the ring of the 
Fisherman, January 23, 1523, of our pontificate the first 
yearn 


Oecolampadius, in his letters to Zwingli of Janu- 
ary 17, 1523, and January 2Ist, expresses displeasure 
at the approaching disputation, on general grounds, 
and gently warns him against losing his temper and 
carrying on a dispute instead of a discussion.’ 

Glareanus wanted to come, however, but was un- 
able to.°* 

1VII., 266, 267. Zwingli informed Wyttenbach (June 23, 1523, 
vii., 300) that he told the bearer of the letter to his face that the 
Pope was Antichrist. 

INI.) 262.2656 

SVII., 264. It appears from this letter that Zwingli had erron- 
eously written that the debate would be on January 20. 


1523] Lhe Reformation Defended 183 


In preparation for the event, and to give direction 
to the speeches, Zwingli published on January 19th 
sixty-seven Articles in German which really sum 
up his teaching.’ Some of the Articles literally trans- 
lated are these: 1. All who say that the Gospel is 
nothing without the confirmation of the Church err 
and reflect on God. 11. Therefore we see that the 
spiritual (so-called) ordinances relative to show, 
riches, orders, titles, and laws are a cause of all 
folly, as they do not agree with the Head [Christ]. 
17 (Of the Pope). That Christ is the only eternal 
high-priest, therefore it follows that those who have 
given themselves out as high-priests resist, yea, re- 
ject the honour and authority of Christ. 18 (Of the 
Mass). That Christ, who has once offered Himself, 
is to all eternity the perpetual and redeeming sacri- 
fice for the sins of all believers; therefore it follows 
that the Mass is not a sacrifice, only the commemo- 
ration of the sacrifice and the assurance of the 
redemption which Christ has shown us. Ig (Interces- 
sion of the Saints). That Christ is the sole mediator 
between God and us. 20. That God will give us 
all things in His name. Consequently it follows 
that we do not need any other mediator than He 
outside of this life. 21. That when we pray for one 
another we do so in a way to show that all things 
will be given us through Christ alone. 24 (Food 


1 These Articles are given in full in the original Swiss-German, in 
i., 153-157; by Schaff, in his Creeds of Christendom, i11., 197-207, 
in a modern German translation side by side with a free Latin trans- 
lation; he gives a free English translation of twenty-six of the 
Articles in his Llistory of the Christian Church, Vii., 52, 53. 


184 Huldreich Zwingli [1523 


Prohibition). That every Christian is not bound to 
do what God has not commanded, so he may at any 
time eat any sort of food; therefore it follows that 
the cheese and butter dispensations’ are Roman 
impositions. 28 (Marriage of the Clergy). That all 
which God allows or has not forbidden is right; 
therefore it follows that marriage is proper for all. 
30 (Vows of Chastity). That those who take vows of 
chastity foolishly or childishly assume too much; 
therefore it follows that those who take such vows 
do wrong to pious people.’ 34 (Of the Hierarchy). 
The so-called spiritual power has no ground for its 
pomp in the teachings of Christ. 35 (Secular Power 
from God). But the secular has authority and con- 
firmation in the teaching and example of Christ. 
36. All that the so-called spiritual order claims to 
belong to it of right and for the protection of the 
right belongs to the secular arm when it is Christian. 
37. Toit all Christians without exception owe obedi- 
ence; (38) so far as it does not order what is contrary 
to God. 49 (Of Scandal). I do not know of any 
greater scandal than that the priests should not be 
allowed wives, but should be allowed concubines by 
paying money for the privilege. Out upon the 
shameful business! 57 (Of Purgatory). The true 
Holy Scriptures know nothing of a purgatory after 
this life. 58. The judgment passed upon the dead - 
is known only to God. 59. And the less God has 
let us know about it, so much the less should we 


1 Issued by the ecclesiastical authorities allowing these articles to 
be eaten during Lent by those receiving them. 
> By implying that only celibates are chaste, 


15323] Ihe Reformation Defended 185 


assume to know. 60. If anyone concerned for the 
dead calls on God to show them mercy, I do not 
consider that so objectionable; but to set a time for 
the punishment (seven years for a mortal sin), and 
for the sake of gaining your end lie about it, is not 
human,’ it is devilish. 66. All spiritual superiors 
should immediately humble themselves and exalt 
alone the cross of Christ, not the money-chest, or 
they will perish, for I say to you: the axe is at the 
tree. 67. If anyone wants to talk with me about 
taxes, tithes, unbaptised children, confirmation, I 
am perfectly willing to answer his questions. 

On January 26th Glareanus wrote to him from 
Basel that when a Doctor Gebweiler, who had once 
been elected rector of the university there, was asked 
if the university intended to send a representative to 
the Zurich disputation, he replied: ‘‘ Only knaves 
are going to Zurich, and Zwingli is a knave too, and 
preaches heresy.’’ Glareanus also informed him 
that neither Fabri® nor Eck was ready in the German 
language; they did better in Latin.* 

On the eventful day, Thursday, January 29, 1523, 
above six hundred persons assembled in the morning 
in the Town Hall. As representative of the bishop 
were the episcopal major-domo, Fritz von Anwyl, the 
vicar-general, Fabri (or Faber), and Doctor Heyer- 
hansen (Vergenhans). With them were Doctor 
Martin Blansch of Tuebingen, and other scholars and 
prominent persons outside the diocese. The entire 


17. ¢., is not a simple, human weakness. 
? Both forms Fabri and Faber were in use, 
5 VII., 267, 268, 


186 Huldreich Zwingli [1523 


clergy of the canton were present, besides large 
numbers of the laity of all ranks. The Diet of the 
Confederation had been asked while in session at 
Baden to send a deputation, but had paid no atten- 
tion to the request. 

The burgomaster presided, and stated the object 
of the meeting in these words: 


““Very learned, venerable, noble, steadfast, honour- 
able, wise, ecclesiastical lords and friends: In my lords’ 
city of Zurich and in its territories there has risen for 
some time discord and strife on account of the sermons 
and doctrine given to the people from the pulpit by 
our preacher here in Zurich, Master Ulrich Zwinglli. 
Wherefore he has been reproached and spoken against 
by some as a false guide, by others as a heretic. So it 
has come about that not alone in our city of Zurich 
but in the country under the authority of my lords such 
discord among the priests, also among the laity, in- 
creases, and daily come complaints to my lords about it, 
until it seems that there is no end to such angry words 
and quarrelling. On this account Master Ulrich Zwingli 
has offered often from the public pulpit to give before 
everybody the rationale and ground of his preaching and 
doctrine delivered here in Zurich in an open disputation 
before numerous clergy and laity. The honourable 
Council has granted this request of Master Ulrich with a 
view to stop the great unrest and disputing, has allowed 
him to hold a public disputation in the German language. 
before the Great Council of Zurich, as the Two Hundred 
are called, to which the honourable wise Council has in- 
vited all the people’s priests and curates of the canton; 
also solicited the venerable lord and prince, etc., Bishop 
of Constance; on which his Grace has kindly sent the 


‘G14H SHSM ‘e2Sl ‘92 “LOO GNV 62 ‘Nf 
dO SNOILVLNdSIG SNOININAY SHL 3YSHM ‘HOIWNZ LV TIVH SCIONNOO LV3YO SHL 











1323} Lhe Reformation Defended 187 


deputation here present, for which the honourable Coun- 
cil of Zurich expresses especial great thanks. Therefore, 
if anyone now present has any displeasure or doubts over 
the preaching and doctrines of Master Ulrich here has 
given from the pulpit, or knaws to speak about the mat- 
ter, as that such preaching and doctrine were and must be 
not correct but seditious or heretical, let him here before 
my lords convict the oft-mentioned Master Ulrich of un- 
truthfulness, and in this presence here confute his error 
by Holy Scripture freely, boldly, and without fear of 
punishment, so that my lords may be spared hereafter 
daily complaints, whence originate discord and disunity. 
For my lords are tired of such complaints, which tend to 
increase constantly from the clergy and laity alike.’’ 


The meeting was then declared open for discussion. 
But it was quickly evident that on the episcopal side 
there was no desire for the disputation. The major- 
domo of the Bishop promptly disclaimed all inten- 
tion of debating anything. The delegation was there 
merely to find out why there was so much difference 
of opinion on religion in the canton, and on proper 
complaint to do their best to heal the differences. 
This disclaimer must have thrown a damper on the 
assembly, but Zwingli, not to be entirely balked, 
held forth at some length upon the impropriety of 
calling him a heretic, and announced that he was 
there to defend his doctrine against all comers, 
and had frequently offered to do so previously, even 
in Constance itself, provided he had a safe conduct. 
After this opening Johann Fabri, the vicar-general 
of Constance, and a friend of Zwingli, entered the 
lists, and almost the entire morning was consumed 


188 Huldreich Zwingli [1523 


between them. Fabri was much more courteous 
and polished in his addresses than Zwingli, who had 
a good deal of the rough and ready about him. 
Fabri began by claiming to be a friend of the Gospel 
preaching, indeed to be a Gospel preacher himself, 
but he contended that the time to discuss their re- 
ligious differences was at the general council which 
the Diet of Nuremberg had just decided to call a 
year hence. Further, the real judges of such dis- 
putes were the universities, as Paris, Cologne, or 
Louvain. ‘‘ Why not Erfurt or Wittenberg?”’ 
Zwingli suggested. At this all laughed. ‘“‘ No,’’ 
said Fabri, ‘‘ Luther is too near there, and then all 
evils come from the North.” Zwingli in reply made 
three points: 1. The question before them was 
simply whether God’s law demanded the observance 
of certain customs, not how old they were or who 
required them. 2. For purposes of deciding such 
questions no general council was necessary, the as- 
sembly then met was competent. Nor would the 
Bible be the arbiter in any such council. 3. The 
universities need not be appealed to. The Word 
of God was the infallible and impartial judge. And 
besides there were good scholars in the Word and 
in canon law there present. 

After Zwingli’s speech there was a pause. Then 
the burgomaster urged, and then Zwingli urged all 
those who had anything to say against the doctrine 
taught by him to say it and disprove his teachings out 
of the Scriptures. A priest, after another awkward 
pause, spoke upon the arrest of Urban Wyss, pastor 
of Fislisbach, a village of Baden, on the border of 


1523) Lhe Reformation Defended 189 


Switzerland, by the Bishop of Constance because he 
had disobeyed the Bishop’s mandate relative to the 
maintenance of the Old Church teaching, and asked 
what those should do who like himself wished to 
preach the pure Gospel. .This gave occasion to a 
genuine discussion in which Fabri and Zwingli bore 
the chief parts. The former was the defender of the 
Old Church and declared that from the Scriptures he 
had at Constance convinced Wyss of his errors, and 
that Wyss had renounced them and would therefore 
be soon released. Heand Zwingli discussed many of 
the points in dispute, such as the intercession of the 
saints, clerical celibacy, and the authority of the 
Church; but though urged by Zwingli and others 
Fabri refused to give at length the Scripture proofs 
he had so successfully used, as he claimed, with the 
alleged heretic. But very few participated in the 
debate, for the audience, while friendly to the Re- 
formed party, was there to hear, not to participate. 
Dinner-time, which was II A.M., having come, and 
the audience being tired of sitting, was about to be 
dismissed when up sprang a canon, one of those in- 
dividuals who like to call attention to themselves 
in such assemblies, and tried to induce Zwingli to 
discuss some matters which properly belonged to 
the chapter meetings. He was with difficulty sup- 
pressed, and then the audience dispersed to their 
abodes. 

In the afternoon they came together again. The 
burgomaster then read a paper which the Council 
had just drawn up in the recess. It was an emphatic 
approval of Zwingli’s doctrines, and a request that 


190 Huldreich Zwingli [1523 


all preachers in the canton should present them. It 
ran thus: 


‘“ WHEREAS, ye now in the name of the Lord and upon 
the command of the burgomaster, Council, and Great 
Council of the city of Zurich, and for the reasons com- 
prehended in the letters already sent you, as obedient 
persons have appeared, etc., and whereas again a year 
has elapsed since an honourable embassy of our gracious 
lord of Constance appeared here in the city of Zurich 
before the burgomaster, the Little and the Great Coun- 
cil, on account of such things as you have heard to-day, 
and when all things had now been discussed in various 
fashions it was reported: that our gracious lord of Con- 
stance was about to call together the learned in his bish- 
opric, along with the preachers in the adjoining bishoprics 
and prelacies, to advise, assist, and with them to confer, 
so that a unanimous decision might be reached and 
everyone would know how to conduct himself; but since 
up to this time, perhaps for noteworthy reasons, nothing 
special has been done in the matter by our gracious lord 
of Constance, and since the dissension among the clergy 
and the laity continually increases, therefore once more 
the burgomaster, Council, and Great Council of the city 
of Zurich in the name of God, for the sake of peace and 
Christian unity, have fixed this day, and, countenanced 
by the honourable delegation of our gracious lord of 
Constance (for which they give their gracious, exalted, 
and diligent thanks), have also for this purpose by means 
of open letters, as stated above, written, called, and sent 
for all people’s priests, preachers, curates, collectively 
and singly, out of all their counties into this city, in 
order that in the examination they might confront with 
each other those mutually accusing each other of being 
heretics, ; : 


1523] The Reformation Defended 101 


““ AND WHEREAS Master Ulrich Zwingli, canon and 
preacher in the Great Minster in the city of Zurich, has 
formerly been much calumniated and accused on ac- 
count of his doctrine, yet no one has raised himself 
against him consequent upon his declaring and explain- 
ing his Articles, or has disproved them on the ground of 
Holy Scripture; whereas he has several times challenged 
those who have accused him of being a heretic to step 
forward and no man has proved any sort of heresy in his 
doctrine; therefore the aforesaid burgomaster, Council, 
and Great Council of the city of Zurich, in order to put 
an end to disturbance and dissension, have upon due 
deliberation and consultation decided, resolved, and it 
is their earnest opinion, that Master Zwingli continue 
and keep on as before to proclaim: the Holy Gospel and 
the pure Holy Scripture with the Holy Spirit, in accord- 
ance with his capabilities, so long and as frequently 
as he will until something better is made known to him. 

‘“ Furthermore, all your people’s priests, curates, and 
preachers in your cities and canton and dependencies, 
shall undertake and preach nothing but what can be 
proved by the Holy Gospel and the pure Holy Script- 
ures: furthermore, they shall in no wise for the future 
slander, call each other heretic, or insult in such manner. 

‘“ Whoever, however, appears contrarious and not suf- 
ficiently obedient, the same will be put under such re- 
straint, that they must see and discover that they have 
committed wrong. 

‘“Given on Thursday after Charles’s day, in the 
city of Zurich, upon the zgth day of January in the year 
MDXXIII.”’ 


Zwingli’s strong point was in asking for Scripture 
proof that he was wrong; yet Fabri offered to refute 


192 Huldreich Zwingli {1523 


him orally or in writing and on biblical grounds. 
Zwingli expressed great eagerness to have him 
do it. 

The deliverance was a great victory for Zwingli, 
and he gave public thanks to God for it. 

Fabri then announced that he had just got a copy 
of Zwingli’s printed Articles, and that he particu- 
larly objected to Zwingli’s denial of the propriety of 
Church ceremonies, z. ¢., the things and the doings 
which exalt the Church worship, and that he would 
prove their propriety. ‘“‘ Good,’’ said Zwingli, “‘ we 
shall be glad to hear you.’’ Fabri had made a 
rather poor show in the morning, but now he was 
primed, and the debate with Zwingli was much 
livelier and better in hand. He madea home thrust 
when he slyly asked Zwingliif the Council were not 
the judge between them. Zwingli, however, was 
not to be caught making any such concession, al- 
though that was the position the Council itself had 
taken. So at the risk of giving offence, he boldly 
maintained that Holy Scripture was the judge. 
Fabri’s thrust did not penetrate his armour. 

At length the long debate was over, and as the 
crowd separated the burgomaster was heard to say: 
‘““ That sword which pierced the pastor of Fislisbach, 
now a prisoner at Constance, has got stuck in its 
scabbard ’’; while the abbot of Cappel remarked: 
** Where were those who wanted to burn us, and 
had the wood piled at the stake? Why did they 
not show themselves ?’’* 


' The above account of the disputation is based directly upon the 
account given by Erhard Hegenwald and printed at Zurich. The 


1523] Lhe Reformation Defended 193 


On February 4, 1523, Glareanus wrote to Zwingli 
congratulating him upon the success of the disputa- 
tion and giving him the sequel of the railing of Doc- 
tor Gebweiler; how it had brought him into investi- 
gation by the acting bishop and into disfavour with 
the City Council, which, however, had previously 


preface is dated March 3, 1523. It states that the occasion of the 
publication is the appearance of false accounts of the disputation ; 
that he was present and wrote out the speech in his inn immediately 
after the disputation, and inquired of others whenever things were 
not clear to his own mind. It is possible, perhaps rather probable, 
that Zwingli ‘‘ edited” it. But there is no proof that he did, or that 
he altered the reports of his speeches for the better. For collocations 
and other editions see Finsler’s Zwingh-Bibhiographie (Zurich, 1897), 
pp- 77, 78. My copy is the original. It is represented in the 
Schuler and Schulthess edition of Zwingli’s works, i., 114-153. Five 
editions of the original were printed and widely distributed, and it 
was reprinted at Leipzig and Augsburg. Fabri considered that it 
put him in a bad light, although Hegenwald strove to be impartial. 
So he must needs get out his own account of the disputation, which 
he styles ‘‘ Trustworthy information as to what took place in Zurich 
on January 23d.” In his preface he remarks that the Bishop’s depu- 
tation had not gone to Zurich to debate at all, but he had publicly 
offered during the disputation to debate in writing with Zwingli on 
condition that the papers were submitted to a judge for decision, 
Hegenwald had suppressed this offer; and had so reported the 
speeches, that while those by Zwingli were improved, those by the 
opposite side were made to sound childish. Fabri’s book appeared 
March to. It stirred the ire of seven young Zurichers, who brought 
out on September Ist a travesty of Fabri’s volume, entitled ‘* Das 
gyren rupffen. Halt inn wie Johans Schmid Vicarge ze Costentz mit 
dem biichle darinn er verheisst ein waré bericht wie es vff den. 29. 
tag Jenners. M.D.XXIII. ze Ziirich gangen sye sich itbersehé hat. 
Ist voll schimpfis vund ernstes’—(‘‘ The Vulture Plucked, It con- 
tains what John Schmidt, vicar-general of Constance, has omitted to 
state in his book wherein he promises to give a true account of what 
took place upon January 29, 1523, at Zurich. It is full of things 
gay and grave,”) a title which sufficiently indicates the book. Bullin- 
a3 


194 - Huldreich Zwingli [1523 


acted against him. He repeats the commonplace 
slander of Zwingli’s relations with an honest wife.’ 

From the letter of Glareanus dated February 14, 
1523, it appears that Zwingli had complained to the 
Council regarding Gebweiler’s slanders, and the 
Council had asked the Basel Council to take action. 
The upshot was that Gebweiler apologised, and so 
the affair ended.* This backing from his political 
superiors was of the greatest value and protection 
to Zwingli, and also was evidence of his shrewdness 
in calling upon the Council to decide whether he 
were a heretic. Having declared him innocent, 
they were bound to see him through. 

Fabri, indeed, boasted of victory, but Zwingli 
resented his action,* and had really more substantial 
results to show. Henceforth he moved much more 
securely, as he knew that the City Council and most 
of the clergy and laity of the city and canton were 
at all events not inclined to oppose him. 

In accordance with the new regulations respecting 
the cloisters,* Leo Jud on March 7th succeeded the 
Dominicans as preacher in the aristocratic nunnery 


ger tells the story and gives the names of the authors (i., 108). Fabri 
complained of it to the Zurich Council, November 16, 1523, and em- 
phatically denied that he merited so gross and personal an attack. 
He asks the Council to inform him whether the book appeared with 
their knowledge, and who were the authors. What the answer of the 
Council was is unknown. See letter in Strickler, Actensammlung, i., 
No. 703. The contemporary Roman Catholic historian, Johannes 
Salat, gives in his chronicle an account of the disputation, plainly 
taken from Hegenwald, but somewhat coloured. See his Chronicle 
in Archiv fiir die Schweizerische keformations Geschichte, i., 42-53. 

IVIL 27On27 Ue e Vat 273 S06 

SVII., 276, 277. a Seema ty72: 


13231] Lhe Reformation Defended 195 


of Oetenbach’; and many of the nuns re-entered 
the world, taking with them the property they had 
brought into it. Inthe summer some nuns were 
bold enough to marry. These radical changes were 
not effected without opposition.’ 

On February 24th, Zwingli wrote a letter to Ur- 
ban Wyss, the alleged heretic already mentioned, 
imprisoned by the order of the Bishop of Con- 
stance, urging him to stand firm in the Gospel, 
but not expressing much confidence that he would.° 
In February, Zwingli was hanged in effigy at Lu- 
zetn, but he took the insult as a favour.‘ Ash 
Wednesday came that year on February 18th. No 
change from the usual food prohibition was made, 
except that the Council accepted the plea of neces-. 
sity.” After Lent, on Tuesday, April 28th, occurred 
a memorable event — the first real clerical marriage 
in Zurich. So-called clerical marriages which were 
only uncomplained of, but none the less reprehen- 
sible, concubinages were and had long been common 
—in sucha relation Zwingli himself lived for two 
years — but fora priest or religious to marry was un- 
heard of. William Réubli was the first to do the 
deed. His example was followed on Wednesday, 
June 24th, by the chaplain of the Great Minster, 
Zwingli’s church, and indeed in that cathedral and 
with an ex-nun of Oetenbach. Zwingli’s dear friend, 
Leo Jud, who early in the year became people’s 


1In the present city of Zurich. The building is now an orphan- 
age. The other nunnery of Selnau is now also in the city limits 
and used as a prison, 

? Bullinger, i., 110); cf. vil.; ‘279. 

BAVED Na 277 eile 27S. 5 Beli, A. S., No. 339. 


196 Huldreich Zwingli [1523 


priest of St. Peter’s, married on September roth. 
Such marriages were henceforth common.’ Some 
time in March Zwingli received two touching letters 
from monks in the Carthusian Monastery of Ittingen, 
twenty-five miles north-east of Zurich, near Frauen- 
feld, asking his advice and consolation.’ 

On July roth, the Bishop of Constance issued a 
long. letter in Latin to the clergy of his diocese upon 
the religious troubles. It shows considerable Script- 
ure knowledge, and is dignified and proper.* At 
the close the notorious difficulty in those days of 
sending notifications to scattered individuals led to 
the request to have copies of the imperial edict on 
the subject, which accompanied the Bishop’s letter, 
made and distributed. But the Council sent both 
communications back unopened! * 

As was to be expected, Zwingli prepared an 
elaborate commentary onthe Articles he had drawn 
up for use in the disputation. He began immedi- 
ately after it was over, and on February Ioth states 
that he was working on it ‘‘ night and day; do you 
therefore pray to our common Christ that He may 
never suffer me to slip. For it will be a sort of 
farrago of the opinions which are to-day under de- 
bate. I will write in German, for the Articles have 
appeared in that tongue.’’*® His friends awaited it 

' Bullinger gives (i., 108 sg.) quite a list of these clerical Benedicts. 
The connection between a priest leaving the Roman Church and his 
marriage is generally close. 

2 VII., 282-285, 

8 Strickler, Actensammlung, i., 219-222. 

4Egli, A. S., No. 386. 

5VIL., 275, 


1523} The Reformation Defended 197 


eagerly... June came and found him amid many 
distractions still toiling at his task.” At length on 
Tuesday, July 14th, he signed the dedication — to 
his old congregation at Glarus — and so finished his 
volume which bears the title: “‘ Exposition and Proof 
of the Conclusions or Articles.” * It was written for 
the people, and admirably served its purpose. It 
is clear in language, though discursive in style, and 
goes over the ground covered in the Articles. It 
is full of personal allusions.* It contains Zwingli’s 
first printed assertion ef his relation to Luther. He 
repudiates the term ‘‘ Lutheran’”’ as applied to him 
and his teaching, and asserts his entire independence 
of Luther, although they agree on many points.‘ 
He confesses his great debt to Erasmus.* 

With this volume Zwingli made good his claim 
to a knowledge of the Reformation principles and 
to be the Reformation leader of the Swiss and South 
Germans, who henceforth rallied around him and 
not around the Saxon Reformer. For good or ill 
from thence on Zwingli, the Reformer of German 
Switzerland, took his stand on an equal level beside 
the Hero of the Reformation. No sooner had he 
finished his “‘ Exposition’’ but he brought out a 
tractate of less dimensions indeed, but of equal prac- 
tical value. It was designed to head off the very 
excesses in the direction of false liberty which later 
were attributed to the Anabaptist movement and 

ENT 288. 204) 

2 VII., 300. 

3T., 169-424 ; alsoin modern German by Christoffel and separately 


published, Zurich, 1844. 
4T., 256, and elsewhere. IIS, Xo eY 


198 Huldreich Zwingli [1523] 


led to its bloody suppression. The tractate ap- 
peared on July 30th, and was in form an expanded 
sermon on ‘‘ Divine and Human Righteousness,’’ * 
which he had preached on St. John Baptist’s day 
(June 24th). The gist of it is thus stated in the 
preface: 


‘* The Gospel of Christ is not hostile to rulers, nor does 
it occasion any disturbance to temporal affairs, rather it 
confirms the authority of rulers, instructs them in the 
right performance of their duties and how to be in har- 
mony with the people, if they act in a Christian manner 
according to the divine precepts.”’ ” - 

1J., 425-458. Translated into modern German by Christoffel, 
Zurich, 1845. 

ea d2ce 


CHAPTER VIII. 


THE REFORMATION ESTABLISHED 


1523-1525 


URING the two years from the uprising of 
1523 to the corresponding period of 1525, the 
Reformation from theory and prophecy became 
fact. The successive steps may therefore most 
conveniently be here stated in comparatively few 
words. 

It will be remembered that up to this time there 
was no real change in the religious life of the people. 
Lent was kept as usual, the sacrifice of the mass 
was offered, confessions were heard,.and absolution 
given, the images in the churches still stood. The 
scriptural authority of all these things was openly 
denied, it is true, but they existed all the same. 
Some of the priests had married, but as some of 
them had had so-called wives before, this change 
was not so noticeable. Some nuns marrried. The 
marriage of those who had solemnly vowed to lead 
strictly celibate lives caused great scandal among 
many who were otherwise friendly to the Reforma- 
tion. Many monks and nuns left the convents, 
probably in many cases to their sorrow, as they 
found “the world” less congenial than the convent, 
even though the round of prayers and duties was 
often irksome. 

199 


200 Huldreich Zwingli — [1523- 


Zwingli had, however, prepared the ground fora 
fresh growth of religious customs, and it came up as 
rich as he could desire, and his preaching early effected 
very radical changes which affected the purses as 
well as the faith of the people, as was shown when on 
September 29, 1523, the Council ordered that hence- 
forth no fees should be collected in the Great Min- 
ster for baptisms, dispensations of the Eucharist, or 
for interments without gravestones; that the use of 
_ candles at burials was not obligatory; that all the 
clergy of the Minster should preach the Word of 
God; that the unnecessary number of persons sup- 
ported by the Minster should be reduced gradually 
by not filling the places of those who died; that the 
Bible should be daily publicly read for an hour each 
in Hebrew, Greek, and Latin, and at the same time 
explained; that a thorough education be given to 
all candidates to the ministry, and that the children 
beg also specially cared for; and that for educational 
purposes suitable buildings be provided; that holders 
of benefices should as far as possible discharge parish 
duties; that there should not be two kinds of priests 
in the cathedral — canons and chaplains — but only 
one kind; that the cathedral surplus should be dis- 
tributed to the poor under the care of a committee 
of which Zwingli was one.’ 

Caution was Zwingli’s characteristic. He would 
move no faster than public sentiment approved. 
Yet he did his best to form such sentiment. He 
prepared the way for the change and then quietly 
let things come to a crisis. So it was with the 


1 Bullinger, i.. 115-119; cf. Egli, A. S,, Nos. 368, 372, 425, 426. 


1525) Lhe Reformation Established 201 


radical matter of using the vernacular for the Church 
services; Zwingli advocated it, but Leo Jud, in the 
baptism of a child in the Great Minster, August Io, 
1523, first introduced it, and then when Zwingli 
found it was popular, he proceeded to reform the 
liturgy and unfold his novel teaching respecting it. 
In his treatise on ‘‘ The Canon of the Mass,’’ — 
dated IV. Cal. Septemb. (2. ¢., September 2) 1523 
—the canon is that part of the mass liturgy in 
which the words of the institution appear, and is 
therefore doctrinally the storm centre of discussion 
respecting it— he enunciates the doctrine now so 
commonly associated with his name that the Euch- 
arist is not a mystery but a ministry, the atmosphere 
is not awe but love, the result is not infusion of 
grace but of enthusiasm; we remember Christ, and 
the thought of His presence stirs us to fresh exertion 
in His service. He proposed a substitute for the 
Latin prayers which still more strikingly would set 
forth these teachings. Yet, characteristically he 
made no innovation himself at once. His books, 
however, laid down principles which logically fol- 
lowed out would oblige a complete break with the 
Old Church. Yet, so slow was he to make changes 
that on October 9, 1523, he actually defended him- 
self against the charge that he retained the Old 
Church ceremonies—the use of the cross, vestments, 
choir-singing, etc.,—because he liked them!’ 

The people sometimes, as in the case of the vio- 

1TII., 83-116, written in four days, August 25 to 29, and dedi- 
cated to his patron, Geroldseck. 

2 Tn his ‘‘ Apology” for his tract on the Mass Canon, dated Octo- 
ber 9, 1523; iil., 117-120. 


202 Huldreich Zwingli [1523- 


lators of Lent in 1522, outran his prudence and put 
into practice the line of conduct he advocated be- 
fore he was ready that they should. But he was 
now fully embarked upon the sea of troubles incident 
to radical reform, and was prepared for whatever 
came. He could count upon little sympathy out- 
side of Zurich,’ but within it he was strong. Zwingli 
had taught that the images of the Virgin Mary and 
of the saints found in all churches were idols, and 
should be removed, yet he took no steps to remove 
those in the Great Minster. Bolder spirits under- 
took to carry out his ideas elsewhere. The friends 
of the old order resisted, denounced the action as 
sacrilege, and secured the imprisonment of the 
offenders. Zwingli, as in the case of the earlier 
violators of Lent, acknowledged the logic of the 
situation, although deprecating the violence which 
the iconoclasts sometimes used, and visited the 
offenders in prison, whom he addressed not as 
criminals but as over-zealous and thoughtlessly un- 
ruly. Still the situation demanded action by the 
city and cantonal authorities. These appointed a 
committee consisting of four members of the Little 
Council and four of the Great Council to study with 
the three priests in charge of the three parishes 
(Zwingli, Engelhard, and Jud) the Scripture pass- 
ages bearing on the religious use of images, and to 
report to the Great Council. Meanwhile the icono- 
clasts remained in prison.’ 


1The Swiss Diet at Baden on September 30, 1523, passed a law 
threatening all adherents of the Reformed faith with punishment. 
* So Zwingli writes in a letter of October 9,.1523 (vii., 311, 312). 





THE GREAT MINSTER, ZURICH. 





1525] Lhe Reformation Established 203 


Subsequently the Council on Monday before St. 
Gall’s day (2. ¢., October 12th) summoned’ all the 
clergy of the canton to discuss in a public debate on 
Monday, October 26, 1523, what should be done 
about the Church images and also the mass. Urgent 
invitations to be represented were sent to the bishops 
of Constance, Basel, and Chur, to the University 
of Basel, and to each canton.” The answers were 
characteristic. Constance declared (October 16th) 
that he would be answerable to both his rulers (Pope 
and Emperor) if he took part in the proposed dis- 
putation; urged the Council to give the idea up, 
and leave all such questions for answer at the com- 
ing General Council. Basel declared that he was 
too old and weak to make the journey; that only 
the whole Church should undertake such changes, 
and also they should avoid schism. Chur sent no 
reply at all, The cantons, except Schaffhausen 
and St. Gall, declined to send deputations. Bern 
and Solothurn replied in friendly fashion, but said 
the matter should be discussed by the Confederacy 
as a whole; the abbot of St. Gall politely declined 
to come; Lucerne reproached Zurich for her persist- 
ency in error; Upper Unterwalden was bitter and 
abusive.” 

Notwithstanding this rather discouraging result, 
Zurich persisted and the debate was held.* The 
Council laid down the same general conditions as in 


1 Bullinger gives the text of the summons, i., 128 sg. 

*1., 543. 

2 Lor lO}, 

4See the account in i., 464-540, as reprinted from Ludwig Het- 
zer’s, issued December 8, 1523. 


204 Huldreich Zwingli [rse9- 


January: the language used should be the vernacu- 
lar; the final authority should be the Word of God. 
Schaffhausen was represented by Sebastian Hof- 
meister; St. Gall by Vadian and Schappeler. The 
burgomaster presided, and 350 ecclesiastics of the 
canton and 550 other persons were counted as at- 
tendants. The proceedings lasted three days. The 
first day was given to a debate upon the proposition: 
the Church images are forbidden by God and Holy 
Scripture, and therefore Christians should neither 
make, set up, nor reverence them, but they should 
be removed.’ It was resolved to remove them 

wherever it could be done without disturbance or 
- wounding tender consciences. 

Those in prison for the offence of removing them 
were recommended to mercy, and the burgomaster 
promised to spare them.’ 

The second and third days were taken up in dis- 
cussing this proposition: the mass is no sacrifice, and 
hitherto has been celebrated with many abuses, 
quite different from its original institution by 
Christ. The debate being now on a burning ques- 
tion was livelier. Zwingli shrewdly avoided a plain 
statement as to the exact nature of the elements, 
for the time had not come for his radical stand, but 
he showed wherein a representation differed from a 
repetition of Christ’s sacrifice. He confessed that 
transubstantiation and its defenders, especially the 


1 Bullinger, i., 131. The burgomaster interrupted the debate in 
the morning at II A.M. to announce that it was time to go to dinner, 
and the next session would begin at I P.M. 

Heyih, Ge WE 


1525) The Reformation Established 205 


monks, had too frequently been attacked by abuse 
rather than by argument, but stoutly declared that 
the monks were hypocrites, and monasticism was of 
the devil.’ The debate on the third day began at 
noon, and was in continuation of the preceding. But 
although so much time was consumed, no decision 
was arrived at, except to let the Council handle it. 
It was perhaps noticed that the debate on the third 
day did not begin tillnoon. The explanation is that 
Zwingli preached that morning. So many country 
preachers could not separate without having a ser- 
mon from the leading city preacher. Many months 
later he expanded the discourse by urgent request, 
and published it March 26, 1524.’ It is called “‘ The 
Shepherd.’’ In it he contrasts the good and the 
false shepherds. He set plainly before them the pros- 
pect that fidelity would lead to martyrdom. Such 
was the fate he expected for himself, as appears 
from his letters.* 

Zwingli on November 11, 1523, thus informed 
Vadianus* what happened after the disputation: 
The Council selected four from its own ranks and 
four from the citizens, ‘‘ as they call them,’’ that 
they might consult with the abbot of Cappel (eleven 

1T,, 502. The thoughtful and perhaps hungry burgomaster inter- 
rupted the debate as usual at II A.M. to remind the assembly that 
it was time to go to dinner! J., 519. 

*JT., 631-668. It was translated into modern German by Chris- 
toffel, Zurich, 1843, and by B. Riggenbach, Basel, 1884, and was 
translated into English under the title, ‘‘ The Image of Both Pastors,” 
London, 1550. 


2 Cf, 6 2, Wiley 319 SqG. 
4 Who had been one of the three presidents at the recent disputa- 
tion (Bullinger, i., 130). 


206 =) Huldreich Zwingli [1525- 


miles south of Zurich), the provost of Embrach (ten 
miles north by east), the comtur of Kiissnacht 
(five miles south by east on Lake Zurich), and the 
chief priests of the three parishes of Zurich,— 
Zwingli, Engelhard, and Jud,— 


‘“so0 as to discover a plan by which to move forward the 
work of Christ. It was agreed that a brief introduction 
to the Council’s order should be written by me, by means 
of which those bishops [ruling pastors] who had hitherto 
either been ignorant of Christ, or had been turned away 
from Him, should be induced to begin to preach Him. 
This was read on November gth, and pleased the Coun- 
cil and is now being printed. It was also resolved that 
the abbot of Cappel should preach Christ under the au- 
thority of the city across the Alps [Basel ?], the comtur 
[or head of the monastery] at Ktissnacht around the 
lake [of Zurich] and in the province of Grueningen 
[twelve miles south-east and about four miles back of 
east bank of lake], and I in those provinces which look 
toward Schaffhausen and Thurgau [the cantons on the 
east and north of Zurich], so that the sheep of Christ 
might not by anyone’s negligence be deprived of hear- 
ing the word of salvation. They will shortly determine 
what will be done about the images, as soon as the 
people have been instructed; and the same with regard 
to the mass. In the meantime we are to go on in our 
wonted manner, except that it is permitted to any to re- 
move their private images, as long as no one is injured. 
The prisoners are to be treated according to the high- 
est law—what that means you do not need to be told.’ 
But this is reasonable, for it does not escape you what 


1 The ringleaders and the pastor of Hongg, three miles north-west 
of Zurich, whose sermon had incited the iconoclasts, were banished, 


1528) Lhe Reformation Established 207 


sort of men we have to fear at this time, not so much 
for the thing itself as for the glory of Christ. For there 
are those who revolt against the Gospel of Christ unless 
you yield a little to their infirmities. For the sake of 
these I think that Lawrence Hochrutiner [a leader in a 
cross-breaking expedition] has been treated a little too 
firmly, not to say harshly; a good man, by Hercules, 
but punished very severely because he has said too much. 
So he is compelled to go away from here, and does not 
find any place in the whole world except your city where 
he can settle. . . . Whatever service you do him 
you will do to Zwingli.’’ ’ 


The “‘ brief introduction ’’ alluded to bears the 
title: “‘ A short Christian introduction which the 
honourable Council of the city of Zurich has sent 
to the pastors and preachers living in its cities, lands, 
and wherever its authority extends, so that they 
may in unison henceforth announce and preach the 
true Gospel to their dependents.’’* It was prepared 
by Zwingli in fourteen days, so it was a hasty work 
as usual, and read before the Council on November 
g, and printed November 17, 1523. Preceding it is 
the mandate of the Zurich authorities which com- 
mends the ‘‘ Introduction’’ on the ground of its 
scriptural character, and repeats the requests to be 
corrected out of the Scriptures, if they have in any 
respect not advocated correct opinions.” The treat- 
ise is throughout doctrinal, but far from abstruse. 
It begins with a brief handling of sin, then of the 
law. At greater length it treats of the Gospel, as 
God’s way of deliverance from the law; next upon 


WT ae Bugs. Bul, 27., 541-565. aT, 542) sg. 
vf 


208 Huldreich Zwingli [1523- 


‘ > 


the deliverance itself, the ‘‘ removal of the law.’ 
Next, but more briefly, upon images. Zwingli 
says, in concluding the section: 


‘It is clear that the images and other representations 
which we have in the houses of worship have caused the 
risk of idolatry. Therefore they should not be allowed 
to remain there, nor in your chambers, nor in the mar- 
ket-place, nor anywhere else where one does them 
honour. Chiefly they are not to be tolerated in the 
churches, for all that is in them should be worthy of our 
respect. If anyone desires to put historical representa- 
tions on the outside of the churches, that may be allowed, 
so long as they do not incite to their worship. But when 
one begins to bow before these images and to worship 
them, then they are not to be tolerated anywhere in the 
wide world; for that is the beginning of idolatry, nay, is 
idolatry itself.’’ * 


The closing section, which is also comparatively 
brief, is upon the mass; and mainly an explicit 
denial that the mass is a sacrifice. It teaches us 
that Christ has left us a definite, visible sign of His 
flesh and blood, and calls the eating and drinking 
His remembrance. The old use of the Eucharist 
was an abuse which should be abolished: yet 
so cautiously that no disturbance arise therefrom. 
The effect of the second disputation of this action 
by the Council, the visit of the delegates to the 
parishes, and of Zwingli’s tractate was exactly as 
he would have it. Priests everywhere in the canton 
declined to read mass, and the presence of the 


De SO lrg. 


1523) The Reformation Established 209 


images in the churches was more and more con- 
sidered an offence. There was, however, a party 
which honestly deplored these departures from the 
old order, and Zwingli himself advised deliberation. 
The division in the chapter of the Great Minster as 
to the mass led to the reference of the matter to the 
Council on December Ioth, and it in turn referred it 
to the three people’s priests. Zwingli wrote the 
“opinion ’’’ entirely on the side of the proposed 
changes, and-plainly announced that on the coming 
Christmas day, Friday, December 25, 1523, the 
Lord’s Supper would be administered under both 
forms, and daily thereafter there would be a brief 
Bible exposition in place of the daily mass. The 
Council, however, decided to allow both the old and 
new forms of the Eucharist in the city, and practi- 
cally only the old elsewhere in the canton, and to 
postpone any revised liturgy.” On December toth, 
the Council replied directly to the chapter of the 
Great Minster, inviting them and all the city clergy 
to a disputation upon the matters in dispute in 
the Town Hall on Holy Innocents’ day, Monday, 
December 28th, before the city magistracy; and 
meanwhile the Council ordered that the folding 
doors which covered certain pictures in the cathe- 
dral should be closed and kept closed, and that no 
church banners, crucifixes, or pictures should be 
carried about. The conference only resulted in the 
call for another, between the representatives of the 
Old Church party and the three people’s priests, on 
1T,, 566-568. 


2 Egli, 4. S., No. 460. 
14 


210 - Huldreich Zwingli [1523] 


January 19 and 20, 1524." Meanwhile the bishops 
of Constance, Basel, and Chur, the University of 
Basel, and the confederate authorities were to be 
asked for their opinions on Zwingli’s ‘‘ Introduc- 
tion.” 


1T,, 568; Bullinger, i., 139 sg. 


CHAPTER IX 


GEROLD MEYER VON KNONAU, HUTTEN, AND 
ERASMUS 


1523 


HE relations between Zwingli and the woman 
he afterwards married were probably partly 
brought about by the fact that her son Gerold was 
one of his pupils in the Latin school attached to the 
Great Minster. In the spring of 1521, Gerold, 
along with other youths who had enjoyed Zwingli’s 
instruction, was sent to Basel where he was put at 
first under James Nepos’; afterwards under Glare- 
anus. From Basel he wrote to Zwingli in Septem- 
ber, perhaps, enthusiastically praising the city and 
its learned men, and showing that he was enjoying 
himself in other than literary pursuits.” The tone 
of the letter is slightly patronising, as was expected 
of a young patrician addressing an ordinary man, 
even one whom he styles his “‘ master, respected 
and beloved for many reasons,’’ but at the same 
time boyishly frank and affectionate. Considered 
as the production of a boy only eleven years old, it 
is remarkable. Zwingli seems to have reciprocated 
Gerold’s affection; at all events, on August I, 1523, 
IVIL, 169. 
*VIT., 181 57. 
211 


212 Huldreich Zwingli [1523 


when Gerold, then thirteen years old, returned from 
a stay at the baths in Baden, about twelve miles 
north-west of Zurich, Zwingli took the trouble to 
put into shape a little collection of “* precepts’’ upon 
education which he had begun years before, and gave 
it to him as a “* bath-present,’’ it being customary 
then so to greet with presents persons coming from 
the baths. The collection was afterwards printed.’ 
It is dedicated to Gerold in a very fatherly tone. 
‘* The first precepts contain how the tender mind 
of an ingenuous youth may be instructed in those 
things which relate to God; the second how in 
those which relate to himself; the third, how in 
those which have regard to others.’’ * 

Judging from the dedication to him, Gerold was 


1TV,, 148-158. Its popularity is attested by the appearance of 
numerous editions of it. It was written originally in Latin, and 
printed at Basel, 1523; reprinted in Augsburg, 1524, along with 
Melanchthon’s Llementa Puerilia, and the same year by Froschauer 
in Zurich; again in Basel, in 1541, in a collection of twenty-one 
pedagogical papers, but without Zwingli’s name, merely, as ‘‘ Writ- 
ten by a Christian Theologian.” In 1524 a translation in Upper 
Rhine German appeared, probably at Basel (reprinted by K. 
Fulda, Erfurt, 1844). This seems to have stirred up Zwingli to 
make a translation of his little book into the dialect of Zurich, and 
this was printed by Froschauer in Zurich, 1526 ; reprinted by August 
Israel in Part IV. of his collection of rare pedagogical tracts of the 
sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, Zchopau, 1879 ; and by E. Egli, 
with the original Latin on the opposite page, Zurich, 1884. An 
English translation of the treatise from the Latin was made by ‘‘ Rich- - 
arde Argentyne, Doctour in Physck, imprinted at Ipsewich [London] 
by Anthony Scoloker, dwellyng in S. Nycholas Paryshe Anno 1548.” 
A new translation on the basis of Israel’s edition of the German 
was prepared by Professor Alcide Reichenbach of Ursinus College, 
and published, Collegeville, Pa., 1899. 

2TV., 149. 


1523) Knonau, Hutten, and Erasmus 213 


a sober-minded and precocious youth who would 
appreciate and profit by Zwingli’s good advice.' 

The year 1523 was destined to see the end of the 
friendship between Zwingli and Erasmus. It is not 
probable that Erasmus ever had any affection for 
Zwingli, but they had much in common. They 
were both devoted students of the Greek and Latin 
classics and had many common friends among the 
Humanists. Religiously they both had come to the 
truth through culture and reflection, and were 
strangers to any violent conversion. They both 
were sociable and lovers of fun; both looked 
leniently upon the follies and pleasant vices of man- 
kind, while themselves in maturer years chaste and 
pious. To young Zwingli there was no scholar like 
Erasmus. He was ready to make a long journey 
to sit reverently at his feet.2 Erasmus considered 
his pupil agreeable and promising, and occasionally 
wrote him a letter*®; but when Zwingli carried out 
to their logical conclusions the teachings of Eras- 
mus, and proposed to abolish the evils of the Roman 
Church, as manifested in Zurich, Erasmus became 
alarmed, claimed that the time was not yet ripe 
for action, and would dissuade Zwingli from doing 
anything.‘ The interest of the old scholar was 
changing into indifference when an event occurred 
which broke up their friendship abruptly and ab- 
solutely, namely, Zwingli’s treatment of Ulrich von 

1 Cf. pp. 232 sgg. for additional information as to Gerold. 

MPO 

3 Pp. 80 sgq. 
_ 4VII., 251. As Strauss truthfully says: ‘‘ Humanism was large- 

minded, but faint-hearted ” (U/rich von Hutton, Eng, trans., p. 346). 


214 Huldreich Zwingli [1523 


Hutten, a man Erasmus hated. Hutten was the 
most picturesque character to espouse the cause of 
the Reformation. He wasa scion of a noble family in 
Hesse-Cassel, accomplished, learned, extremely witty 
and humorous, a fearless fighter for intellectual and 
religious liberty, and one who deserved well of the 
cause of the Reformation, which he embraced with 
characteristic ardour though dissipated and licen- 
tious. He enjoyed till near the end of his life the 
friendship of Erasmus, but forfeited it by his vehe- 
ment attack upon him as too cowardly to declare 
himself openly a Lutheran, while really so. The at- 
tack was in revenge for Erasmus’s conduct in not call- 
ing upon him during his stay of two months in Basel. 
As is seen from the sentences quoted in the note 
below, Hutten appeared at the house of Glareanus. 
Erasmus was, however, wary how he allied himself 
with one under the ban, hopelessly in debt, and also 
whose shameful disease made him physically loath- 
some. This attack turned Erasmus into the im- 
placable foe of Hutten, and of all who defended or 
aided Hutten. Zwingli, as a Humanist, was of 
course familiar with Hutten’s career, and occa- 
sional mention of him occurs in his correspondence.’ 


1 Hutten’s name is first mentioned in the Zwingli correspondence 
in a letter from William Nesen, dated April, 1518, wherein his 
phrase ‘‘the citadel of impudence” is quoted (vii., 40), and it is” 
said, ‘‘ The latest production of Hutten is greatly praised by the 
learned” (vii., 41). Next Myconius, on February 20, 1520, men- 
tions him along with Erasmus, Luther, and Valla, and other Human- 
ists (vii., 115). Valentine Curio, a Basel bookseller, in May, 1520, 
calls Zwingli’s attention to certain dialogues of Hutten’s with a view 
to his buying them (vii., 134). Myconius, on August 21, 1520, men- 


1523] Knonau, Hutten, and Erasmus 215 


It appears that after leaving Basel (January Io, 
1523) Hutten went to Miilhausen, in the present 
Elsass, eighteen miles north by west of Basel, and 


tions the issue of Hutten’s literary attack on the Duke of Wiirtem- 
berg (vii., 146). Hedio, on October 15, 1520, writing from Mainz, 
says: ‘* Hutten [who had just been expelled from Mainz for attack- 
ing the Roman Church] lies in hiding, for whom prison has been 
prepared by the Romans, who have issued secret instructions either 
to arrest him and take him in chains to Rome or else slay him. 
Nevertheless, he will remain hidden, as the monks perceive to whom 
this promise has been entrusted : for they are the furies of the Pope” 
(vii., 148). In 1522, from Basel, on November 28th, Glareanus thus 
writes of him: ‘‘ Hutten is with us, not an agreeable guest, as I 
think, to the very learned man [Erasmus]. I have eaten with him 
twice, and he will be here some time. But the protection promised 
by the magistracy, though I do not know that he will need it, yet he 
wished to have it. Not yet over his sickness and in Germany hardly 
able to rest anywhere in safety, he seeks here a little breathing space” 
(vii., 247). ‘‘I wish you were present some days at my house. You 
would see Erasmus, Hutten, Gicolampadius” (vii., 248). So Johan- 
nes Xylotectus, writing from Lucern on December 11, 1522, says: 
‘*T have seen a letter sent to a certain patrician here from a Baseler 
in the upper walks of life, in which the statement is made that Hut- 
ten has just now arrived at Basel, along with him [(colampadius], 
who was on intimate terms with Franz von Sickingen ” (vii., 252). 
Henry Eppendorf, writing from Basel sometime in December, 
1522, says: ‘‘ Your book presented by Christopher [Froschauer, the 
printer of Zurich] to my library, and in which you most wisely coun- 
sel the German princes against the deceit of the Roman pontiff, I 
have perused most eagerly, and have let Ulrich von Hutten, that 
unique defender of religion and liberty in Germany, read it also” 
(vii., 259). Otho Brunfels, a friend of Hutten’s, under date of Feb- 


ruary 13, 1523, from Nuremberg, writes: ‘‘Our Hutten is in bad 
shape and we others are indiscriminately overthrown” (vii., 273). 
(Ecolampadius, writing from Basel on June 16, 1523, says: ‘‘I ask 


you to forward this parcel to that beloved knight, Ulrich von Hut- 
ten” (vii., 301), and on July 8, ‘‘ Greet for me, I pray you, my lord 
Hutten, and tell him that letters have lately come to me for him” 
(vii., 301), 


216 Huldreich Zwingli [1523 


lay hidden there for some months in the Augustinian 
monastery. But so pugnacious and reckless an op- 
ponent of the Roman Church could not keep quiet. 
From Miilhausen he issued his “‘ Expostulation” 
with Erasmus. This revealed his presence to the 
Old Church party and they threatened his life. The 
City Council prudently advised him to withdraw, 
and about the middle of July he left one night and 
fled to Zurich, which in a straight line was sixty 
miles south-east. There Zwingli with characteristic 
kindness befriended him,’ and for the benefit of his 
health sent him to Pfaefers, with a letter of recom- 
mendation to the abbot, who was a friend of the 
Reformation. The healing springs in the gorge 
beneath the village were then and are to-day famous. 
But Hutten could not be cured and so turned back 
towards Zurich.” Zwingli then sent him to the 


1 Blarer writes from Constance on July 27, 1523: ‘‘ Commend me 
to Hutten, who I hear is with you. That ‘Expostulation’ of his 
with Erasmus, just published, shows us pleasantly and intimately if 
anything ever did that German mind of his, so that it is a great grief 
to us that the health of that truly Christian man is so little firm, 
whereas it ought to be adamantine”’ (vil., 305). 

? On his way, probably, from Einsiedeln, where he rested, he sent 
Zwingli this letter, the only one of his to Zwingli which has been 
preserved ; it has no date, but must have been written in July or 
August, 1523: ‘‘I derived no benefit from the baths of Pfaefers, 
because they are not hot enough. It seems that the labour and 
peril to which I have gone have been of no avail for the recovery of 
my health” [This is an allusion to the fact that at times invalids 
had to climb down hanging ladders into the gloomy gorge wherein 
the springs are, or to be let down by ropes. Cf. Strauss’s Hutten, 
Eng. trans., p. 352]. It cannot be told with what kindness and lib- 
erality the abbot [of Pfaefers ; the monastery where Hutten stopped 
was in the village of Pfaefers, on a high hill, and directly over the 





THE TAMINA GORGE IN WHICH BAD PFAFERS IS LOCATED. 





523] Knonau, Hutten, and Erasmus 217 


island of Ufnau, opposite Rapperswyl, towards the 
extreme eastern end of the Lake of Zurich, some 
twenty-two miles from Zurich, where the pastor, 
Hans Schnegg, a canon of Einsiedeln, was also a 
skilful physician. 

On August 1oth, Erasmus wrote to the City 
Council of Zurich to be on their guard against 
the insolence of Hutten, and because it might work 
_ great harm to the city, he advised them to put a 
curb on the dangerous man. When Hutten heard 
of this letter he asked the Council to communi- 
cate its contents to him, that he might answer it, 
and claimed that he had from boyhood led a life 
of virtue and piety, which was untrue! On Au- 
gust 31st, Erasmus wrote directly to Zwingli*; and 
never again except in the form of a dedication.’ 


deep gorge just mentioned] treated me. On this account you will give 
him my thanks when you write him. In me he favoured you and 
the comtur [Schmidt of Kiissnacht]. When I left, he begged me 
earnestly to spend some weeks with him. He also furnished me 
horses and provisions for the journey [from the monastery to Zurich, 
which might take for so sick a man as Hutten at least a couple of 
days]. He advised me to visit the baths again sometime ; for the 
cause of their doing me no good now, was the rain which fell all 
these days and mingled itself with the baths. Cold water was never 
wanting, either falling from the sky, or lately flowing from the rocks 
in torrents so as to threaten my little bath-house. Thus much about 
the baths, where I have been told Nicholas Prugner has come from 
Miilhausen, besides letters for me. Write and tell me how matters 
are, and if there are letters for me, have them forwarded. Also 
inform me what provision you have made for my entertainment: for 
I would have moved thither to-day if I had not been uncertain where 
Iwas to go. I do not doubt but that you will not have failed me in 
the matter. Whatever it is, inform me, and farewell” (vii., 302). 
IVII., 307-310. ANA GISS eutoy 


218 Huldreich Zwingli [1523 


In carefully chosen words he defended himself 
against the common report that he was a trimmer, 
and coming at last to the point he thus delivered 


» himself: 


‘* Hutten’s ‘ Expostulation ’’ has not been withdrawn, 
at least not until it had been widely spread abroad and 
many copies of it had gone into circulation. I do in- 
deed not grudge him the favour of your citizens. I 
wonder none the less on what account they bestow their 
favour on him. As to a Lutheran? But no one has 
more thwarted the cause of the Gospel. For good let- 
ters? But no one has so hurt that cause. That little 
book of his, written without cause against a friend, will 
call forth much hostility to the German name. What is 
more barbarous than to make so many false charges 
against a friend who wishes well to him, and has de- 
served well of him? I know that he was influenced 
from an outside source, and that this has been pushed 
by some in order to extort money from my friends. 
Concerning his other deeds I will say nothing; they are 
sufficiently notorious, but even pirates cherish true 
friendship. JI replied to him. More properly I did not 
reply, but repelled an impudent calumny. The cause of 
the Gospel and of good letters influences me more than 
the injury to myself. I do not value the friendship of 
those who delight in such a disposition. Everybody is 
sure that this raging of his has you for instigator, how- 
ever you evade the issue. He can bring much evil to 
your city, but no good. And further, Gicolampadius 
declared that he had enlarged his evil-spoken book. 
Still I see the real fact; he will go on raging, not so 
much to my injury as to that of good letters. But if he 
does not stop gnashing his teeth on a fragile bit, he will 


1523) Knonau, Hutten, and Erasmus 219 


strike something solid. You will use your influence to 
restrain the man, if you see that it is for the interests of 
polite literature and of the Gospel and of the German 
name—for nowadays the people call everybody a German 
who uses the German language. . . . What our 
Hilarius said, that Hutten’s book could be printed be- 
cause you allowed it, he said of his own volition, not at 
my command. Farewell.’’ 


On August 15th, Hutten’s second attack on Eras- 
mus, which was not calculated to make matters bet- 
ter, appeared, and in two weeks thereafter (August 
31st) Hutten died. He was just past his thirty-fifth 
birthday. He was buried on Ufnau, but the place 
is now unknown.’ 

But for befriending Hutten, or rather for sharing 
the views of Hutten, as expressed in his attacks, 


.1Zwingli thus wrote about Hutten’s affairs, October I1, 1523: 
‘*Hutten had some debts here also, and all his goods were not 
enough to pay them. Therefore, he left nothing of any value. He 
had no books, and no furniture except a pen. Of his effects I saw 
nothing after his death except some letters which he had received 
from his friends, or sent to them, and which he had sewed together. 
A short time ago there was a man here who brought a letter to him 
who is dead, which I sent to Henry Eppendorf. From him I learn 
that there was some hope for the creditors of Hutten. Wherefore 
if you can meet Eppendorf, tell him to give his aid and counsel in 
this matter. I have no advice to give beyond this. He owed me 
three gold-pieces and the comtur at Kiissnacht twenty. But let 
me not forget to say the courier said: That there remained from the 
wreck of Hutten’s affairs two hundred gold-pieces which Eppendorf 
would perhaps receive. I then wrote to Eppendorf on behalf of the 
comtur, but so far have received no reply. I ask, therefore, that 
if you should receive any hope, you will indicate that his dues also 
should be paid. I do not worry about what is due me; if anything 
comes to me, I will receive it; if not well and good” (vii., 313). 


220 Huldreich Zwingli [1523 


Erasmus had only scorn. Still he did not at once 
break with Zwingli, but dedicated to him his 
‘‘ Sponge to wipe off the aspersions of Hutten,” 
his reply to Hutten’s first attack, in a courteous 
epistle,' and then ceased to write to him. Zwingli 
deplored this estrangement,” but it was inevitable. 
And the break with Erasmus was accompanied with 
the loss of the friendship of Glareanus,* who was the 
shadow of Erasmus and shared his religious views. 
This fact comes out in the letter Zwingli, on May 
28, 1525, wrote to Vadianus: 


‘‘When Erasmus of Rotterdam received my com- 
mentary [‘‘On the true and false religion’’ | he exclaimed, 
as a friend of his reports: ‘My good Zwingli, what do 
you write that I have not first written?’ I tell you this 
that you may see how far self-esteem can carry us. Would 
that Erasmus had treated my arguments with his pen! 
The world would then have been persuaded, so that I 
should not labour under such a burden of enmity. I 
always preferred to stay in the background; but the 
Lord did not wish it, and His will be done. Would that 
the name of Erasmus had been attached to my book! 
Then shamefacedness would not have held me in its 
bonds, nor the fear of vainglory. I thus speak before 
the Lord: After my writings have been read by all, I 
would wish that my name should fall into oblivion. 
Glareanus rages against me, and takes all measures not 

2 See his kind remarks about Erasmus, viii., 174, 175. 

*It is noteworthy that not a single letter to Glareanus appears in 
the Zwingli correspondence. After the rupture Glareanus may have 


destroyed them. The last letter of Glareanus preserved is dated 
February 14, 1523 (vii. 270, 271), and is very friendly. 


1523] Knonau, Hutten, and Erasmus 221 


only against me, but also against Gicolampadius. See 
how the thoughts of the heart are revealed, when Mary, 
z. é., those who are Christ’s mother, sister, and brother, 
are stricken with the sword of persecution. Who would 
have thought that there was in the former [Erasmus] so 
great a desire for glory, and in the latter [Glareanus] so 
much of malignity and venom! The most learned men 
everywhere congratulate the Swiss; and a Swiss [Glare- 
anus] chafes because of Zwingli.’’ ’ 

' As indicating the way in which Erasmus was later spoken of by 
(Ecolampadius, see his letter of January 15, 1530, to Zwingli, viii., 
395- 


CHAPTER X 


THE REFORMATION IN ZURICH COMPLETED 


1524 


HE year 1524 marked the completion of the 
break with the Old Church as far as Zurich 
was concerned. The changes were made deliber- 
ately and under orders from the City Council. 
They occasioned no revolt, although they were of 
the most radical description. It was made to ap- 
pear that the changes came in consequence of the 
city authorities’ conviction of their scripturalness, 
and not because Zwingli had insisted upon them. 
Nor was a step taken without the approval before- 
hand of the thoughtful classes. Zwingli and his 
fellow Reformers argued before the people the pro- 
priety of the changes about to be made. Then 
when a sufficient time had elapsed a public debate 
was held in the presence of the City Council, and 
then the Council ordered the changes. The conse- 
quence was the changes were made once for all, 
were fully comprehended, and gladly assented to. 
By this course Zwingli proved his title to be called — 
the Prudent Reformer. Granted that it was the 
clear-sightedness of the prayerful scholar rather than 
spiritual elevation which gave him the knowledge of 
the objectionable doctrines and practices of the Old 
222 ; 


1524] Lhe Reformation Completed 223 


Church, he showed true courage in opposing and 
removing them; granted that he was totally lacking 
in Luther’s flaming zeal, he accomplished a much 
more complete break with Rome; granted that he 
was no profound thinker like Calvin, he was much 
more easily comprehended and probably quite as 
correct. And in personal qualities he was superior 
to Luther and Calvin. Men loved Zwingli, and fol- 
lowed him because they loved him. They knew 
that he spoke the truth in the breadth of a loving 
heart; that he broke with Rome because he loved 
the truth more than life, and loathed the whole mis- 
erable business of medieval hair-splitting theology, 
lying pardons, swindling sacraments, the incubus 
of a Church which was primarily a huge money- 
making concern, ruled by a Pope no spiritual man 
had any respect for and served by a clergy who as 
a class were low-bred and low-lived, preached by 
monks whose private histories were unsavoury, and 
sanctified, forsooth, by nuns who were virgin only 
in name. His heart made him protest. It could 
no longer be borne; the Church was pressing the 
life out of the poor people and sending them by 
millions to the bar of God without any knowledge 
of God’s Word, or any preparation for His service. 

Pursuant to the order of the Council, on Tuesday 
and Wednesday, January Ig and 20, 1524, Canon 
Hofmann, chief representative of the Old Party 
among the priesthood, met the three people’s 
priests, and six theologians and six councillors, in 
private sessions, and attempted to defend the old 
usages. But the commission decided that he had 


224 Huldreich Zwingli [1524 


not made out his points from Scripture, and so the 
Council voted that the canons must give outward 
assent to the Council’s orders or leave the city.’ 

With this last desperate attempt the Old Party 
closed their efforts, and there was no further formal 
opposition in Zurich to the Reformation. One by 
one, as the people were fully able to stand it, and 
understand it, those practices of the Old Church 
which Zwingli considered objectionable were re- 
moved. The saints’ days passed unobserved; the 
procession to Einsiedeln which had taken place an- 
nually on Monday after Pentecost (that year May 
16th), and which was made much of, was perman- 
ently abolished, by order of Council, the preced- 
ing Saturday’; the reliques were by similar order, 
June 15th, taken from the churches and reverently 
buried; the organs were removed and the ringing 
of the church bells during a tempest, even the toll- 
ing for funerals, stopped. Masses for the dead, 
processions of clergy, payment for confession, bless- 
ing of palms, holy water, candles, and extreme 
unction, all became things of the past.* The re- 
moval of the pictures, statues, images, and other or- 
naments from the churches was accomplished in the 
city between Saturday, July 2d, and Sunday, July 
17th. Similar scenes took place all over the can- 
ton. The next step, and one which like the others 
was carefully weighed, was the abolition of the con- 
vents and monasteries in the city and canton of 

1 Bullinger, i., 139-142; Egli, 4. S., Nos. 483, 486, 489. 

2 Eegli, A. S., No. 527. 

8 Tbid., Nos. 544, 546, 547. 


1324] The Reformation Completed 225 


Zurich.’ This was determined upon on December 
3, 1524. All the monks were gathered into the 
Franciscan monastery, and the Dominicans and 
Augustinians were not allowed to return to their 
old homes. Most of them decided to leave the mon- 
astery and make their living as best they might. 
The nuns of the Oetenbach and Selnau convents 
had already been united in the former building.’ 
The convent attached to the Frau Minster, through 
its abbess, on December 5th, surrendered itself to 
the city, and that attached to the Great Minster 
on December 20th. The revenue of the latter was 
appropriated at Zwingli’s suggestion to a classical 
school of high grade, and generally speaking that 
which came to the city from such sources to good 
purposes, as relief of the poor or sick.* 

So when 1524 closed, about the only reminder of 
the old order was the mass, which was allowed a 
little longer existence. But it was evident that its 
days were numbered. The heart and soul of these 
changes was Zwingli, and their completion filled him 
with joy and thanksgiving. While they were going 
on, he was incessantly occupied out of his study, so 
that the literary labours of the year are compara- 
tively small. First comes his expanded sermon on 


1 Bullinger, i., 228-230. 

? The Dominican monastery was later made a hospital, and its 
church the fourth parish church; the Augustinian a kitchen for the 
preparation of food for the poor, and the Franciscan the place where 
it was dispensed ; the nunnery of Selnau a house of correction, that 
of Oetenbach an orphanage. 

3 The ‘‘ opinjon” of Zwingli the Council followed (ii., 2, 327 s¢.). 

15 


226 Huldreich Zwingli [1524 


‘“ The Shepherd,’’ which has been already alluded 
to’; next his remarks, or marginal notes, upon the 
address of the bishops of Constance, Basel, and 
Lausanne to the Swiss Diet at Lucerne, April 1, 
1524°; next his earnest and eloquent plea, ad- 
dressed to the Swiss Diet, not to continue the mer- 
cenary traffic.* His text was the dreadful news of 
the decimation of the Swiss mercenaries by war and 
famine in Italy which had just reached Switzerland. 
But there was too much money in the business for 
it to be given up. He issued the address in May 
anonymously, concealing even the place of publica- 
tion, in order to allay suspicion. His plea found 
few hearers. On June 25th he defended himself * 
against the curious slander that he derived his 
knowledge of the Scriptures from a certain Jew of 
Winterthur, named Moses, as if that could make 
any difference. He got the Jew to deny the charge 
in very emphatic language. He confesses, how- 
ever, to a knowledge of Hebrew and that he had 
debated with this Jew on the Messianic prophecies. 
In the same tract he refutes another slander, viz., 
that he had in a sermon denied the divinity and 
atonement of Christ. 

On the reception of the good news that the county 
of the Toggenburg, in which he was born, had ac- 
cepted the Reformation, he wrote the Council of 
the county a congratulatory epistle, which was after- 
wards separately published in two editions.° 


PE 2Obs 2TI., 2, 307-311. 
3TI., 2, 315-321 ; in modern German by Christoffel, Zurich, 1843. 
4TI., 2, 322-326. 5VII., 352-356, 


1524] Ihe Reformation Completed 227 


The only lengthy work of the year was his so- 
called Axztzbolon, the preface to which was dated 
August 18th; an attack upon Jerome Emser, ‘‘ de- 
fender of the canon of the mass,’’* z. ¢., that part 
of the mass which contains the fixed rule according 
to which it is administered: in it the transubstantia- 
tion formula occurs. Emser had published at Dres- 
den in the preceding year a tract with that title.’ 
Zwingli, just as Luther and Melanchthon, both of 
whom wrote against Emser, has the bad taste to 
pun upon his name, which means “‘ goat.’’ Zwingli 
treats Emser as insultingly as he alleges Emser 
treated him. The tract is only to a small degree 
taken up with the mass, but in greater part with the 
Church,* Intercession of Saints, Merit, and Purga- 
tory. On November 16th he issued an epistle on 
the Lord’s Supper,’ in which he shows plainly that he 
was settling upon those views which he afterwards 
more distinctly enunciated and was already com- 
pletely emancipated from the spell of the mass; and 
on December 16th he replied at length to his Strass- 
burg sympathisers, who submitted to him certain 
knotty questions,’ viz., what should be their attitude 


1TII., 121-144. The word antiboblon is late legal Greek for a 
formal reply. See Sophocles’ Lexicon, sub voce. Zwingli may have 
intended to use it, or else he made a slip in gender. 

? Canonis Misse contra Huldricun Zwinglium Defensis, 1523. 
The editors of Zwingli’s works could not find a copy (iii., 121). 
That in my library is a small quarto of sixty-two unnumbered 
pages, and written in the form of a dialogue. 

’ A valuable summary of his opinion on this subject, pp. 134 sqq. 

4TII., 591-603. 

5TII., 615-626. 


228 Huldreich Zwingli [1524 


toward an unbelieving magistracy ? whether the 
magistracy had the right to remove those who 
neither preached nor practised the Gospel ? whether 
the marriage with the wife of a paternal uncle was 
allowable ? what was his opinion on baptism and 
the Eucharist ? To the first question he replied: 
obedience and proper respect; to the second, yes; 
to the third, no. Inconclusion he gives his views 
upon the two sacraments, first on baptism. He 
defends the baptism of infants. In regard to the 
Eucharist, he perceives that Carlstadt had stirred 
them up, and cautiously expresses himself on his 
side as far as the denial of the corporal presence 
was concerned. 

The longest and most earnest, as well as the last 
paper of the year, was called forth by the confusion 
and excesses incident to the religious upheaval. It 
appeared, appropriately, upon Innocents’ Day (De- 
cember 28th),’ and refutes the charge that. the 
Reformation can properly be charged with these 
occurrences; specifically with the Peasant War; 
rather the oppressive ecclesiastical and civil rulers 
were to blame for furnishing their occasion. It 
was addressed to the church at Miilhausen, near 
Basel, which had just gone over to the Reformation 
and so had just been exposed to the same threats 
as Zurich. 

One more step remained to be taken and the 
church in Zurich would be completely emancipated 
from the Old Church, and that was to abolish entirely 


1TI., 1, 376-425. Modern German translation by Christoffel, ’ 
Zurich, 1846, 


_1525] The Reformation Completed 229 


the mass. Cautiously, but without retrogression, 
Zwingli had for years steadily moved towards 
this goal. In 1524 he had won from the Council 
permission for the priests to dispense the bread and 
wine under both forms if they would. This, how- 
ever, still maintained the connection with the old 
forms. Judging that the time had come, and know- 
ing that the friends of the ecclesiastical overturning 
were in decided majority in the Council of the Two 
Hundred, Zwingli and several other leaders ap- 
peared before the Council on Tuesday, April 11, 
1525,—Tuesday of Holy Week,—and demanded the 
abolition of the mass and the substitution therefor of 
the Lord’s Supper as described by the evangelists 
and the Apostle Paul. Opposition being made to 
the proposition, the Council delegated its debate 
with Zwingli to four of themselves, and their report 
being on Zwingli’s side, the Council ordered that 
the mass be abolished forthwith." Consequently, 
on Thursday, April 13, 1525, the first evangelical 
communion service took place in the Great Minster, 
and according to Zwingli’s carefully thought out 
arrangement, which he had published April 6th. 
A table covered with a clean linen cloth was set be- 
tween the choir and the nave in the Great Minster. 
Upon it were the bread upon wooden platters and 
the wine in wooden beakers. The men and the 
women in the congregation were upon opposite sides 
of the middle aisle. Zwingli preached a sermon and 
offered prayer. The deacon read Paul’s account of 
the institution of the sacrament in I. Cor., xi., 20 sgq. 


PTs 2232. 


230 Huldreich Zwingli [1525]. 


Then Zwingli and his assistants and the congrega- 
tion performed a liturgy, entirely without musical 
accompaniment in singing, but translated into the 
Swiss dialect from the Latin mass service, with the 
introduction of appropriate Scripture and the en- 
tire elimination of the transubstantiation teaching.’ 
The elements were passed by the deacons through 
the congregation. This Eucharist service was re- 
peated upon the two following days.” 

The impression made upon many by this service, so 
radically different from the Latin one to which they 
were accustomed, was at first painful, but as a class 
the Zurichers accepted it and saw without protest 
the removal of the altar, now meaningless, since 
there was no sacrifice, and of the organ, now use- 
less, since there was no longer to be music in the 
churches.” 

1 The liturgy is given, ii., 2, 235-242. 

2 Cf. Bullinger, i., 264. 

3 For description of the services in the churches and further 
references to the religious life in Zurich see closing part of 
Chapter XIII. Zwingli prepared the way for each step and did 
his best to spread the knowledge of his course by his writings 
of 1525. He took especial pains to let his eucharistic teaching be 
known. In 1523 he published, allin Latin, ‘‘An Attempt (Epichiresis) 
on the Mass-canon” (iii., 83-116) ; in 1524 he replied to Emser’s reply 
on the Mass-canon (iii., 121-144) ; in March, 1525, he brought out 
his very long ‘‘ Commentary on the True and False Religion” (iii., 
147-325), dedicated, strangely enough, to Francis I., King of France, 
in which he goes over all the topics of practical theology (see list, 
p- 153 sg.), and of which he issued separately the section on ‘the 
Eucharist in a German version; on August 17, 1525, he published 
his ‘‘Crown of the Eucharist ” (iii., 327-356). He issued also on 


the subject minor tractates in German, and probably wrote many 
private letters, 


CHAPTER XI 


PUBLIC MARRIAGE AND LETTERS OF 1524 


1524 


HE great event in Zwingli’s life in 1524 was his ° 
public marriage. His bride was Anna Rein- 
hard, widow of Hans Meyer von Knonau, a scion of 
the principal patrician house of Zurich, who, how- 
ever, Owing to circumstances, brought him very 
little money. The event gave great satisfaction to 
Zwingli’s many friends, who for a long time had 
been troubled at his singular course, for he had 
since the early part of 1522 considered and treated 
Anna Reinhard as his wife, but for some reason had 
never publicly acknowledged her as such. 

Here is a fitting place to tell with some detail the 
story of Anna Reinhard.’ 

Her ancestors came from St. Gall, but her grand- 
father received citizenship in Zurich in 1432, and 
there she was born in 1484. Her father became 
proprietor of the inn Zum Weissen Rossli, on the 
Sonnenquai, on the east bank of the Limmat, just 


1For the facts, along with much romance and irrelevant matter, 
see Salomon Hess, Anna Reinhard, 2d ed., Zurich, 1820; Zwing- 
“ana, 1900, No. 2, pp. 161-163. It is noteworthy that Myconius, 
in his life of Zwingli, does not say a word about Zwingli’s mar- 
riage. 
231 


232 Huldreich Zwingli [1524 


under the Great Minster, in 1487." She was a girl 
of ravishing beauty and won the attentions of the 
young patrician Hans Meyer von Knonau, who was 
six years older than she, being born in 1478, and 
his father’s only son. To the disgust of his father 
he married her in 1504, and in consequence his 
father dispossessed him. This treatment did not 
injure Hans in the estimation of his fellow-towns- 
men, for in 1510 he became a member of the Great 
. Council, in 1511 a city judge, and carried the Zurich 
banner in the battle of Novara in 1513, in which 
Zwingli was. He also retained the good-will of his 
cousin the Bishop of Constance. Three children 
were the result of his marriage: Margaretha, born 
1505, twice married, 1527 to Anton Wirz, who was 
killed in the battle of Cappel, October 11, 1531; 
later to Hans Escher; died 1549; Agatha, born 
1507, married, 1528, Hans Balthasar Keller, a dis- 
tinguished man, who died in 1554; and Gerold, 
born October 25, 1509; married at 16 to Kiingolt 
Dietschi, a daughter of a city councillor, a girl of the 
same age; became a member of the Two Hundred 
and supported Zwingli;, shared Zwingli’s tastes and 
once played a principal part in a performance of a 
comedy of Aristophanes in the original Greek; died 
on the battle-field of Cappel, at Zwingli’s side, Octo- 
ber 11, 1531. Hans died in Zurich on November 26, 
1517. A few years before (perhaps in 1513) little 
Gerold had been adopted by his grandfather as 
heir and taken to live in his house, where he con- 


'Voegelin, Das Alte Ziirich, 2d ed., i., 239. 


1524] Public Marriage and Letters 233 


tinued to live after the grandfather’s death in 1518 
until his step-grandmother’s death in 1520, when he 
went back to his mother. But as in 1512 the grand- 
father had sold his estate of Knonau to the city of 
Zurich, Gerold inherited less real property than 
he otherwise should. After her husband’s death 
Anna Reinhard continued to live with her two 
daughters in the “ Héfli” house near the Great 
Minster. So when Zwingli came to Zurich in 1519, 
he found the beautiful Anna, a widow of a little 
more than a year’s standing, living in his parish, 
and quite near his house, which was in the church 
courtyard, while her son, a promising lad, was in 
the school attached to his church, and shortly after 
became one of his pupils. To one of Zwingli’s ardent 
temperament it may have been a case of love at first 
sight. How soon intimacy sprang up between them 
is unknown, but there was nothing in Zwingli’s 
practices or in public opinion to hold him back from 
paying attentions to his beautiful parishioner and 
neighbour. In 1522 Zwingli moved to a house op- 
posite to the cathedral on the east side, on the corner 
of the present streets, Gasse and Neustadt Gasse.’ 
His relations with Anna Reinhard was the talk of 
the town, and rumours of it spread pretty far. On or 
about April 27, 1522, his friend Glareanus writes 
jokingly: ‘‘ They say that I have married here [in 
Basel] and that you have done the same thing [in 
Zurich]. I believe this isa liein both cases. They add 
also that you have married a widow and Ia woman of 


1A tablet on the house thus reads: ‘‘ The house to the pillar. 
Official residence of Ulrich Zwingli, 1522-1524.” 


234 Huldreich Zwingli [1524 
the town.’’’ Asno letter from Zwinglito Glareanus 
has been preserved, it is impossible to find out now 
what answer Zwingli made, but Glareanus’s letter is 
evidence that Zwingli had not taken him into his 
confidence and that rumour for once was veracious, 
Another friend states in his letter to Zwingli on 
November 28, 1522, that it was said that he (Zwingli) 
had publicly married the burgomaster’s daughter.’ 
Rumour in this case had only an inkling of the 
truth. Zwingli in his reply, dated December 20, 
1522, while denying a certain slander on him, says 
not a word about his “‘ marriage.’’* Nor does he 
allude to it when denying the charge of promiscuous 
immorality which the cantonal clerk of Schwyz re- 
tails to him under date October 19, 1522. Nor does 
he mention Anna Reinhard in any preserved letter. 
That he had any wife would be unknown were it 
not that on July 22, 1522, Myconius writes, ‘‘ best 
wishes for your wife’’°; on September 23d, “‘ re- 
member me to your son,’’* and about December 
1gth, ‘‘ farewell to you and your wife.’’’ 

As appears from the above, Zwingli and Anna 
Reinhard considered themselves as married to one 
another, and this so-called “clerical marriage” in- 
volved no social stigma.’ Still, when priest after 
priest in Switzerland and Germany publicly made the 
woman he was living with or some other woman his 

SU NVAIES Ses oye AVL eo 7s SV 255% 

‘VII., 235. Zwingli’s reply (vii., 237) is, however, incomplete 
and undated in present shape. 

EVA ea T Oy SVS, 226: HNIALI ARGe 


*For another concealed marriage among Zwingli’s friends, see 
vii., 233. 


1524] Public Marriage and Letters 235 


wife, the wonder grew among Zwingli’s friends that 
he did not do the same. The only defence possible 
is that there were social and legal obstacles in the 
way because Anna Reinhard was by marriage allied 
to the Zurich patricians. 

The public marriage took place in the presence of 
many witnesses ' on April 2d,’ but not till July 26th 
did the City Council permit Zwingli’s wife to leave 
her children and take up her abode in his house. 
The marriage was followed by troubles about the 
money matters of the Knonau children, who took up 
their residence in their late grandfather’s house, 
“Meyerhof.” But these appear to have been amica- 
bly settled.’ 

The impression that Zwingli had married an 
heiress had no foundation. His wife brought him 
very little money. His married life seems to have 
been happy and unsullied. 

The Zwingli correspondence of 1524* has little 
general interest, and from that year is more and 
more taken up with petty matters, politics, baptismal 
and eucharistic statements, and with controversy. 
The letters of Zwingli himself are, however, always 
the best in the collection and most worthy of 
attention. 


1So Bernhard Weis, quoted by Hess, p. 93 (in Fuessli, Beytraege, 
AVi5 322"575)s 

2 After this date there are frequent greetings to his wife in his 
correspondence. 

3 Cf. Hess, pp. 286 sq. 

4 They may be thus analysed. On January 1, 1524 (vii., 323, 324), 
he wrote avery pleasant letter to Erasmus Ritter, pastor or ‘‘ bishop” 
of Schaffhausen, which was the beginning of their correspondence ; 


236 Huldreich Zwingli [1524 


When the news of Zwingli’s public marriage 
reached Butzer in Strassburg, he wrote (April 14, 
1524)’: 


‘* When I read in the letter to Capito that you had given 
a public announcement of your marriage, I was almost 
beside myself in my great satisfaction. For it was the 
one thing I desired for you. Not that I had been able to 
attribute to you so great a lack of faith as to think that 
you feared that Christ would not use you as a married 
man fruitfully in the business of His Word, and that He 
had employed you to evil results as a celibate—you who 
were daily saying such things as Antichrist would be 
able to endure much more easily than the acknowledg- 
ment of your marriage. I never believed you were un- 
married after the time when you indicated to the Bishop 
of Constance in that tract* that you desired this gift. 
But as I considered the fact that you were considered a 
fornicator by some, and by others held to have little 
faith in Christ, I could not understand why you con- 
cealed it so long and that the fact was not declared 


on February 23d (vii., 324-326), a very sharp letter to Dr. Brend- 
lin, who was one of the episcopal delegation to Zurich in the 
spring of 1522, and a bitter foe to the Reformation, which he en- 
closed in a letter to Vadianus dated February 24th (vii., 327, 328). 
On April 30th a Roman Catholic correspondent informs him of the 
popular impression that he (Zwingli) was to be burned (vii., 329)! 
On March 28th, in writing to Vadianus, Zwingli (vii., 333, 334) com- 
plains that the pressure upon him compelled him to push out rather 
than publish his works—hence their repetitions and omissions. On 
April 11th he reins up his colleague, Conrad Hofmann, for having 
calumniated him (vii., 334). On May 16th he wrote a gossipy letter 
to Vadianus from Leo Jud’s house (vii,, 341, 342). On June 3d he 


VG 3353 2 See p. 166. 


1524 Public Marriage and Letters 237 


openly and with candour and diligence. I could not 
doubt that you were led into this course by considera- 
tions which could not be put aside by a conscientious man. 
However that may be, I triumph in the fact that now you 
have come up in all things to the apostolic definition.’’ ' 


wrote a very long and friendly letter to Butzer, mostly upon the use 
of images.” His letter of June 16th (vii., 343-345) to John Frosch, 
who afterwards was a keen Lutheran, accompanies one from Ur- 
banus Regius to Frosch, which bears testimony to Zwingli’s extra- 
ordinary fitness to lead the reform (vii., 345-347). On July 4th he 
wrote again to Vadianus (vii., 347, 348), all about a marriage which 
Vadianus wished arranged. On July 25th Zwingli addressed in 
German his old lords of Toggenburg in behalf of the Gospel (vii., 
348-356). On August 6th another long letter, this time to the 
burgomaster of Strassburg (viii., 651, 652). In that month he began 
a savage and insulting letter to Eck (vii., 356, 357), but probably 
never finished it, as the copy in his works is incomplete. On Octo- 
ber gth, to CEcolampadius, he wrote a few lines (vii., 360, 361). On 
October 20th he wrote another very long letter (vii., 361-367), which 
is in reality a treatise upon the errors intentional, or ignorant, of a 
certain preacher at Bremgarten, contained in an oration against the 
Gospel delivered at Baden. On October 24th, in writing to Pirk- 
heimer (viii., 653), he derived the word mass from missa, the offer- 
ing of a victim, 


1Allusion to I. Timothy, iii., 2, as if, forsooth, it meant that it 
was obligatory upon a ‘‘ bishop ” to have a wife ! 

2 See letter in R. Staehelin, Briefe aus der Reformationszezt (Basel, 1887), pp. 
15-19. 


CHAPTER. aa. 


THE INNER COURSE OF THE ZURICH REFORMA- 
TION 


1525-1530 


S in Germany so in Zurich, no sooner had the 
Reformation been established than the mem- 

bers of the reformed Church had to fight internal 
foes, as the Baptists were considered ; and the atten- 
tion of their leaders was taken up with controver- 
sies as to the proper treatment to give the peasants. 
The agitation on both these points came to Switz- 
erland from Germany, and was explicable on the 
ground that it was the natural result of the awaken- 
ing of the spirit of free speech, criticism of social 
conditions, and independent research in the Holy 
Word. But alas! the sixteenth century was no 
time for the radicals in these directions. Religious 
toleration was the furthest it could go. Religious 
liberty was a thing unknown. The day of political 
equality had not yet dawffed. The troubles with 
the peasants in the canton of Zurich might have 
been more serious if the Peasant War in Germany 
had not ended in the crushing defeat of their fellow 
complainers, Still in Zurich as in Germany they 


238 


[1525-1530] The Inner Course 239 


drew up a long list of complaints. These they pre- 
sented to the Council, who in turn asked Zwingli 
to advise them. His advice was on the whole 
favourable to the peasants, as he advocated the 
abolition of the ‘‘ small tithe,’’ 2. @, the tax on 
vegetables, fruit, and edible roots, which was a 
great annoyance, and of bodily service in general.’ 

Tithes, however, he considered as binding, not on 
scriptural grounds, but on legal grounds, and de- 
clared that if they were not paid they would have 
to be made up otherwise by new and heavier taxes. 
In order to settle the matter the Council adopted 
the usual plan and held a public debate on June 22, 
1525, in which Zwingli had the leading part. At 
its conclusion the Council ordered the payment of 
tithes and taxes, that the peasants be quiet and 
obedient to their lords, and that the preachers 
whose erroneous Bible teaching had fomented the 
disturbances be careful to counsel peace. 

The Council then announced that they would go 
over the matter carefully with Zwingli and decide 
on the basis of Scripture what disposition should be 
made of the peasants’ grievances. No further dis- 
turbances occurred among the peasants, but a dis- 
putation upon the subject of tithes was held in 
Zurich in the beginning of August. Zwingli re- 
peated his arguments, but for once the Council held 
that he was mistaken and appealed to alleged bib- 
lical grounds for maintaining the tithes.* 

'IL., 2, 374-377. 

2For general references see ii., 2, 364-373; Bullinger, i., 280 
sgqg.; Egli, A. S., 756. 


240 Huldreich Zwingli [1525- 


Zwingli’s troubles because of the peasants were, 
however, not a circumstance to those caused by the 
Baptist party in Zurich. 

The first members of the party were radicals, who 
put into practice theories of conduct which they 
knew Zwingli favoured, but was slow to adopt for 
himself. Thus they were those who in 1522 ate 
flesh in Lent; and those who pulled down the pic- 
tures and statues in the churches, before public 
opinion was exactly ripe for such action; they en- 
tered heartily into the reconstruction of the Church, 
but aspired to reconstruct the State as well and give 
it over to the saints, by which they meant them- 
selves. Zwingli could not fail to perceive how 
closely they kept to his lines in doing these things, 
but he was naturally so cautious that their haste 
annoyed him and was by him condemned.’ He in- 
sisted that if they were not in such a hurry they 
would accomplish their ends with more ease and 
certainty. 

Being at first exclusively very plain people, and 
meeting in a private house, these radicals were un- 
molested by the authorities. Zwingli was at first 
often present at their meetings; indeed, they met to 
discuss his sermons. In the summer of 1522 they 
were joined by Felix Manz and Conrad Grebel, sons 


1 Cf. his remarks in iii., 57, 58: ‘‘ Hundreds of times I have said 
openly, ‘I beseech you by Jesus Christ, by our common faith, not 
to make any change rashly, but to show to all men by your endur- 
ance, if in no other way, that you are Christians, in that on account 
of the weak you bear things that by Christ’s law you do not need to 
bear.’” 


1530] The Inner Course 241 


of distinguished citizens. Manz was the son of a 
canon, an excellent Hebrew scholar, and Zwingli’s 
assistant, and it was at the time in his mother’s 
house that they met. Grebel was the son of Jacob 
Grebel, one of the City Councillors. He was con- 
verted under Zwingli from a licentious life, and for 
a time followed Zwingli’s advice, but, convinced 
that Zwingli was wrong upon the question of bap- 
tism and of duty towards magistrates, joined the 
radicals and soon became their chosen representa- 
tive. The appearance of two such men among 
them gave them greatly increased importance, but 
led also to the commencement of persecution by 
the authorities, so that they met more secretly. 

Their number in the city of Zurich, on September 
5, 1524, was only twenty; outside, however, they 
had adherents among clergy and laity.’ 

It was in the Second Disputation, in October, 
1523, that this radical party first emerged as a dis- 
tinct entity. It demanded action immediate and 
decisive, not only respecting the removal of the 
pictures and images from the churches, but also re- 
specting the administration of the Lord’s Supper,— 
viz., that the practices in the original Supper as de- 
scribed in the New Testament should be followed,— 
and denounced the mass as of the devil.’ 

Zwingli laid little stress upon any literal imitation 


1 See letter of Grebel’s to Thomas Miinzer, quoted ii., 1, 374. 

2See the report of the speeches of Conrad Grebel in the disputa- 
tion (i., 528, 532 sgg. especially). From which it appears that it 
was on the third and last day of the disputation that. the radical 
party first found voice. 


242 Huldreich Zwingli [1528- 


of the Bible ordinances, which in this case would 
oblige logically the wearing of the same clothing as 
Christ and His apostles and the mutual feet-washing. 
His reply to the radicals was in good temper, but 
plainly showed that he could not be counted upon 
to support their claims, and that a breach between 
them and him had begun. 

During the summer of 1524 he had two secret 
conferences with them.’ 

In September, 1524, Thomas Miinzer, the Ger- 
man Protestant radical church-innovator, came near 
Schaffhausen and was visited by some of the Zurich 
radicals. In November, 1524, Andrew Carlstadt, 
the incautious opponent and detractor of Luther, 
came to Zurich. As it is then that, as a matter of 
fact, the radicals adopted the tenet that infant bap- 
tism was unscriptural, it lies very near to attribute 
their acceptance of it to Mtinzer and Carlstadt, espe- 
cially as it appears from Grebel’s letters to Vadian 
of September 3 and October Ig, §524, that he was 
in correspondence with both these men.’ With the 
acceptance of this view the radical becomes the 
Baptist party. 

Zwingli, like CEcolampadius and Capito, had at 
first no particular fault to find with this view upon 
baptism. Who the proper subjects were was a de- 
batable question. Thus in his ‘“ Exposition” of the 
Articles defended in the First Disputation in 1523, 
Zwinegli says: 

AGN G5 ie PSHE 

2See Die Vadianische Briefsammlung (ed. Arbenz, St. Gallen, 
1897), iii., Nos. 404, 407. 


1530] The Inner Course 243 


‘* Although I know, as the Fathers show, that infants 
have been baptised occasionally from the earliest times, 
still it was not so universal a custom as it is now, but the 
common practice’was as soon as they arrived at the age 
of reason to form them into classes for instruction in the 
Word of Salvation (hence they were called catechumens, 
Zz, é., persons under instruction). And after a firm faith 
had been implanted in their hearts and they had con- 
fessed the same with their mouth, then they were bap- 
tised. I could wish that this custom of giving instruction 
were revived to-day, viz., since the children are bap- 
tised so young their religious instruction might begin as 
soon as they come to sufficient understanding. Other- 
wise they suffer a great and ruinous disadvantage if they 
are not as well religiously instructed after baptism as the 
children of the ancients were before baptism, as sermons 
to them still preserved prove.’’’ 


By order of the City Council a public disputation 
was held on January 17 and 18, 1525, between the 
three people’s priests (Zwingli, Jud, and Engelhard) 
and the Baptists. In consequence of the latter’s ‘de- 
feat,” the Council, on January 18th, passed the fol- 
lowing order commanding those who had refused to 
have their infant children baptised to present them 
for this purpose within a week on pain of banishment: 
11, 239, 240. Such speeches not unnaturally encouraged the 
Baptists to believe that Zwingli was really on their side. Accord- 
ingly when they appeared before the Zurich City Council, they 
claimed that he and the other Reformed pastors knew well that 
infant baptism was wrong, but they would not confess it. So Hub- 
maier deposed in 1525: ‘‘In 1523, on Philip and James’ Day 
[Friday, May r], I have with you [Zwingli] conferred in Graben 


Street upon the Scriptures relating to Baptism; then and there you 
said I was right in saying that children should not be baptised before 


244 Huldreich Zwingli [1525- 


‘* Whereas an error has arisen respecting baptism, as 
if young children should not be baptised until they come 
to years of discretion, and know what the faith is; and 
whereas some have accordingly neglected to have their 
children baptised, our burgomaster, Council, and Great 
Council — so the Two Hundred of the city of Zurich are 
called—have held a disputation upon this matter to learn 
what Holy Scripture has to say about it, and having 
learned from it that notwithstanding this error the child- 
ren should be baptised as soon as they are born; so 
must all those who have hitherto allowed their children 
to be unbaptised have them baptised inside the next 
week. Whoever will not do this must with wife and 
child, goods and chattels leave our city, jurisdiction, and 
domain, or await what will be done to him. Each one 
will accordingly know how to conduct himself. Done 
Wednesday before Sebastian’s Day, MDXXV.’’? 


On January 21st the Council forbade the private 
meetings of the Baptists and banished the foreigners 
among their members.’ 


they were instructed in the faith; this had been the custom pre- 
viously, therefore such [persons under instruction] were called cate- 
chumens ; you promised to bring this out in your ‘ Exposition’ of the 
Articles, as you did in the XVIIIth Article, on Confirmation. Any- 
one who reads it will find therein your opinion clearly expressed. 
Sebastian Ruckensperger of St. Gall, then prior of [the Benedictine] 
Sion at Klingnan [twenty miles north-west of Zurich] was present. 
So you have also confessed in your book upon the unruly spirits, 
that those who baptised infants could quote no clear word in Script- 
ure ordering them to baptise them. From this learn, friend 
Zwingli, how your conversation, writing, and preaching agree,”— 
Fiisslin, Beytrdge, 1., n. 54, pp. 252, 253. 


1 Fisslin, Beytrdége, i., 189, 201; Egli, A. S., No. 622. 
2 Egli, 4. S., No.624. 


1530] The Inner Course 245 


Up to this time the Baptists merely protested 
against infant baptism, but had not ventured upon 
baptising adults who had already been baptised in 
unconscious infancy. Now, in the village of Zolli- 
con, on the north shore of the Lake, and six miles 
from the city, whither persecution drove them, they 
proceeded for the first time to take the logical step. 

Conrad Grebel seems to have been the leader in 
this. He rightfully argued from their accepted 
premise: baptism should follow a confession of 
faith, that only those who understood what the rite 
meant should be baptised; and baptised the former 
monk George Blaurock, who, in turn, baptised fif- 
teen others. This baptism was by pouring, not by 
immersion. The idea found quick acceptance and 
soon all their adherents were baptised. They all 
agreed that the ‘‘ baptism ’’ they had received in 
infancy was invalid. Yet because the entire Christ- 
ian Church in all centuries up to that time, and with 
the exception of Baptists ever since, has proclaimed 
that infant baptism was valid the party got the 
name of Anabaptists, z. ¢., those who baptise again 
those previously baptised. One of the Baptists, 
Rudolph Thomann of Zollicon, examined by the 
Council of Zurich on February 7, 1525, thus de- 
scribed the sacraments of baptism and the Lord’s 
Supper as observed in the Zollicon gatherings: 


‘“ He had eaten the Lord’s Supper with the old as- 
sistant (Brétli ?), and him from Witikon (Réubli),and had 
invited them into his house. . . . There many had 
assembled so that the apartment was full; there was 


246 Huldreich Zwingli [1525- 


much speaking and long readings. Then stood up Hans 
Bruggbach of Zumicon, weeping and crying out that he 
was a great sinner and asking all present to pray God for 
him. Whereupon Blaurock asked him if he desired the 
grace of God and he said ‘ Yes.’ Manz then arose and 
said, ‘ Who will hinder me from baptising him?’ Blau- 
rock answered, ‘No one.’ So Manz took a dipper of 
water and baptised him in the name of God the Father, 
God the Son, and God the Holy Ghost. Whereupon 
Jacob Hottinger arose and desired baptism; and Felix 
Manz baptised him also. . . . Seeing the loaf on 
the table, Blaurock said: ‘ Whoever believes that God 
has redeemed him with His death and rosy-coloured 
blood, comes and eats with me from this loaf and drinks 
with me from this wine.’ Then each one present ate 
and drank as invited.’’* 

Weekly debates with the Baptists were held in 
Zurich during March* and one especially on March 
20, 1525. But they only widened the breach, and 
the punishment of banishment which the Council 
inflicted for rebaptism did not lessen the numbers 
of the Baptists. Yet from the Council’s point of 
view the punishment was defensible as the Baptists 
were enemies of the standing order. Among those 
openly to adhere to the Baptists was the famous 
theologian Balthasar Hubmaier. He quickly be- 
came their leading man, and it was with him that 
Zwingli was engaged in hot debate —all the more 
painful because Hubmaier had been a bosom friend.° 
THe A. 5, No. 656. 

* So Zwingli says (iii., 363). 

3So Bullinger (i., 224), who also states that Miinzer converted 
Hubmaier to his views on baptism. 


1530] The Inner Course ~ 247 


The fight was now on and it was bitterly waged. 
But no space can be given to it. Both sides went 
over the now well-worn arguments and were as far 
apart asever. The action of the Zurich authorities 
was determined by practical considerations. They 
could not tolerate a body of schismatics who de- 
nounced Zwingli and themselves. If there were to 
be any abuse let Zwingli and them have it all to 
themselves. 

So Grebel, Manz, and Blaurock were banished. 
Consistently believing in their favourite panacea, the 
Council ordered a third public disputation, which 
took place on November 6, 1525. As before, Zwingli 
was the spokesman of the Reformed. Grebel, Manz, 
and Blaurock were temporarily recalled from their 
banishment to debate with him. As they naturally 
declared themselves unconquered, they were threat- 
ened with the severest punishment. Hubmaier was 
not present. 

Most of the Baptist leaders met violent deaths. 
After many adventures unhappy Felix Manz was, 
in punishment of his objectionable Baptist propa- 
ganda, drowned in the Lake of Zurich January 7, 
1527; and George Blaurock was cruelly beaten and 
then banished under threat of death if he returned.’ 

He did return, however, and secretly baptised. 
He lived until 1529, when he was burned for his 
alleged heresy in Innsbruck. Conrad Grebel died 
of the plague at Maienfeld in 1526. Hubmaier was 
burnt at the stake in Vienna, March 10, 1528. 

The fortitude of the Baptist martyrs made a great 


1Egli, A. S., Nos, 110g, I1I0, 


248 ’ Huldreich Zwingli [1525- 


impression, and the party continued to flourish for 
a while in spite of the efforts of the magistracy. 
Zwingli and his associates’ wrote book after book 
against them, and honestly favoured their extinction 
as enemies to Church and State. 

In Zwingli’s correspondence there are many more 
or less extended references to the Baptists, some of 
the most characteristic of which are here given, 
especially those relating to Balthasar Hubmaier. 

To Ccolampadius, October 9, 1524 (vii., 360): 


“ The challenge of Balthasar [Hubmaier] lately issued, 
either send to me in print or have a copy made for me, 
whichever way this bookseller will act as messenger.” 


! The following is the list of Zwingli’s books on this subject, but 
CEcolampadius and others were equally diligent. (1) ‘‘ Baptism, 
Re-baptism, and Infant Baptism,” May 27, 1525 (ii., I, 230-303 ; , 
language, German; in modern German by R. Christoffel, Zurich, 
1843); (2) ‘‘On the office of preacher, wherein is shown that the 
self-commissioned disturbers of the peace are not apostles as they 
consider themselves, work against God’s Word when they obtrude 
themselves upon the sermons of the faithful pastors and preachers of 
the Gospel, without necessity or permission of the whole congrega- 
tion and of the pastor,” June 30, 1525 (ii., I, 304-336, German) ; 
(3) ‘Dr. Balthasar [Hubmaier’s] booklet upon Baptism honestly 
and thoroughly answered,” 1525, exact date unknown, but after 
July 11, the date of Hubmaier’s book (ii., 1, 343-369, German) ; 
(4) ‘‘Refutation of the tricks of the Catabaptists,” July 31, 1527 
(iii., 358-437, Latin) ; (5) ‘‘ Questions upon the Sacrament of Bap- 
tism,” drawn up by Schwenckfeld in 1530, after November 18th, 
when Brunner asked Butzer whether he should send them to Zwingli, 
who in this treatise reprints Schwenckfeld’s questions and then 
briefly answers them (iii., questions 563-571, answers 571-588, 
Latin), 


1530] The Inner Course 249 


To Capito, January 1, 1526 (Staehelin, Briefe aus 
der Reformationzett, p. 20): 


** Balthasar of Waldshut has fallen into prison here —a 
man not merely irreverent and unlearned, but even 
empty. Learn the sum of the matter. When he came 
to Zurich our Council fearing lest he should cause a 
commotion ordered him to be taken into custody. Since, 
however, he had once in freakishness of disposition and 
fatuity, blurted out in Waldshut against our Council, of 
which place he, by the gods, was a guardian [7. ¢., he was 
pastor there], until the stupid fellow disunited and de- 
stroyed everything, it was determined that I should dis- 
cuss with him in a friendly manner the baptising of infants 
and Catabaptists, as he earnestly begged first from prison 
and afterwards from custody. I met the fellow and 
rendered him mute asa fish. The next day he recited 
a recantation in the presence of certain Councillors ap- 
pointed for the purpose [which recantation when re- 
peated to the Two Hundred it was ordered should be 
publicly made. Therefore having started to write it in 
the city, he gave it to the Council with his own hand, 
with all its silliness, as he promised. At length he de- 
nied that he had changed his opinion, although he had 
done so before a Swiss tribunal, which with us is a capital 
offence, affirming that his signature had been extorted 
from him by terror, which was most untrue]. ’ 

‘“The Council was so unwilling that force should be 
used on him that when the Emperor or Ferdinand twice 
asked that the fellow be given to him it refused the request. 
Indeed he was not taken prisoner that he might suffer 
the penalty of his boldness in the baptismal matter, but 


'The part in the brackets has not been all deciphered, and so 
the translation is so far forth somewhat conjectural. 


250) Huldreich Zwingli [1525~ 


to prevent his causing in secret some confusion, a thing 
he delighted to do. Then he angered the Council; for 
there were present most upright Councillors who had wit- 
nessed his most explicit and unconstrained withdrawal, 
and had refused to hand him over to the cruelty of the 
Emperor, helping themselves with my aid. The next 
day he was thrust back into prison and tortured. It is 
clear that the man had become a sport for demons, so 
he recanted not frankly as he had promised, nay he said 
that he entertained no other opinions than those taught 
by me, execrated the error and obstinacy of the Cata- 
baptists, repeated this three times when stretched on the 
rack, and bewailed his misery and the wrath of God 
which in this affair was so unkind. Behold what 
wantonness! Than these men there is nothing more 
foolhardy, deceptive, infamous— for I cannot tell you 
what they devise in Abtzell—and shameless. To-morrow 
or next day the case will come up.’ ’ 


Zwingli’s reference to Abtzell, modern Appenzell, 
one of the Swiss cantons, as a hotbed of Baptists 
brought him into trouble, as the following letter to 
the people of Abtzell, February 12, 1526 (vii., 473) 
shows: 


‘“ Grace and peace from God to you, respected, hon- 
oured, wise, clement, gracious and beloved Masters: 
An exceedingly unfortunate affair has happened to me, 
in that ] have been publicly accused before your wor- - 
ships of having reviled you in unseemly words and, be 
it said with all respect, of having called you heretics, my 

1 The novelty of this letter is its revelation of Hubmaier’s torture. 
It supplements what is given in the letters beginning vii., 450, 452, 
534. 


1530] The Inner Course 251 


gracious rulers of the State. I am so far from applying 
this name to you, that I should as soon think of calling 
heaven hell. For all my life I have thought and spoken 
of you in terms of praise and honour, gentlemen of Abt- 
zell, as I do to-day, and, as God favours me, shall do to 
the end of my days. But it happened not long ago when 
I was preaching against the Catabaptists that I used these 
words: ‘ The Catabaptists are now doing so much mis- 
chief to the upright citizens of Abtzell and are showing 
so great insolence, that nothing could be more infamous.’ 
You see, gentle sirs, with what modesty I grieved on 
your account, because the turbulent Catabaptists caused 
you so much trouble. Indeed I suspect that the Cata- 
baptists are the very people who have set this sermon 
against me in circulation among you, for they do many 
of those things which do not become true Christians. 
Therefore, gentle and wise sirs, I beg most earnestly 
that you will have me exculpated before the whole com- 
munity, and, if occasion arise, that you will have this 
letter read in public assembly. Sir, I assure you in the 
name of God our Saviour, in these perilous times you 
have never been out of my thoughts and my solicitous 
anxiety; and if in any way I shall be able to serve you 
I will spare no pains to do so, In addition to the fact 
that I never use such terms even against my enemies, let 
me say that it never entered my mind to apply such in- 
sulting epithets to you, pious and wise sirs. Sufficient 
of this. May God preserve you in safety, and may He 
put a curb on these unbridled falsehoods which are be- 
ing scattered everywhere, which is an evidence of some 
great peril—and may He hold your worships and the 
whole state in the true faith of Christ! Take this letter 
of mine in good part, for I could not suffer that so base 
a falsehood against me should lie uncontradicted.” 


252 Huldreich Zwingli [1525- 


To Vadian, March 7, 1526 (vii., 477): 


‘* Tt has been decreed this day by the Council of Two 
Hundred’ that the leaders of the Catabaptists shall be 
cast into the Tower,’ in which they formerly lay, and be 
allured by a bread and water diet until they either give 
up the ghost or surrender. It is also added that they 
who after this are immersed shall be submerged perma- 
nently: this decision is now published. Your father-in- 
law [Jacob Grebel, father of Conrad], the Senator, in vain 
implored mercy [for Conrad, who was one of the prison- 
ers]. The incorrigible audacity of these men at first 
greatly grieved me, now it as greatly displeases me. I 
would rather that the newly rising Christianity should 
not be ushered in with a racket of this sort, but I am 
not God whom it thus pleases to make provision against 
evils that are to come, as He did when in olden time He 
slew with a sudden and fearful death Ananias who lied 
to Peter, so that He might cast out from us all daring to 
deceive, though there is nothing of which we are naturally 
such masters.”’ 


To Peter Gynorzus, August 31, 1526 (vii., 534): 


‘That Balthasar [Hubmaier] of whom I wrote a few 
things in an epistle has acted as follows among us: He 
escaped secretly from the town of Waldshut and came to 


Wali, Ae aSs, 934. 

2 The new tower in Zurich, called the Witches’ Tower. It rose 
above the city wall on the Great Minster side of the Limmat, be- 
tween the two gates, Neumarkt and Niederdorf, which in the present 
city is in the neighbourhood of the Predigerkische ; see Voegelin, 
Das alte Ziirich, 1., 426-428. The incarceration of the Baptists 
there caused it to be called the ‘‘ Heretics’ Tower.” 


1530] The Inner Course 253 


the home of a widow at Zurich. When the Council 
learned it they supposed that he was hatching out some 
monstrosity, as do the rest of the Catabaptists, and that 
for this purpose he had crept secretly into the city. So 
they gave orders that he be arrested and kept under 
guard in the court house. After the third or fourth day 
(I do not know exactly which), they suddenly ordered 
Engelhard, Leo, Myconius, Sebastian [Hofmeister], 
Megander [Grossmann], myself and others to be present. 
When we had come certain of the Council who had been 
appointed for the purpose told us that Balthasar had sent 
letters to them in which he promised that he would van- 
quish Zwingli on the subject of baptism by his own 
writings. We proceeded to business. Then the blind 
fellow adduced what I had written about teaching cate- 
chumens some years ago in the book on the Sixty-seven 
Articles. For he did not know that it was our custom 
that the boys also as in former times be taught the rudi- 
ments of the faith. This he referred to baptism, rather 
indiscreetly; as if I had said that it was my counsel that 
the custom of not baptising infants be brought back 
again, when I had spoken of imbuing children in the 
elements of faith. When he saw that he had erred in 
this matter he was charming. We proceeded after much 
debate, in which he was unwilling to recognise that 
perpetual covenant. We came to Acts ii., from which I 
proved that the children of Christians were in the be- 
ginning reckoned as of the Church. When he had made 
many answers I was trying to bring him to a clear and 
definite reply to the question whether those children 
were in the Church or not. But I made every effort in 
vain. Then I confess frankly when I came to I. Cor., ii. 
‘ All our fathers were baptised unto Moses, etc.,’ and 
was coming to the point of compelling him to acknowl- 


254 Huldreich Zwingli [1525- 


edge that children were included even though they were 
not expressly mentioned, and when he was unwilling to 
say whether or not they were —I confess that I went for 
the man rather vigorously. But yet only to the effect, 
that by his catabaptism he had drawn many wretched 
citizens into a revolt in which they had perished. But 
when he had endured this for a considerable time the 
man was confuted and overcome, He then took a new 
tack and demanded that he be granted an interview with 
Leo, Myconius, and Sebastian [Hofmeister] alone, in 
order that he might confer with them. The arrogant 
fellow hoped he would draw them over to his side by 
his soft-spoken ways. When he saw that this course did 
not succeed he made the demand a second time, and 
after many crafty tricks, he came to the point of saying 
that he would recant. The Council did not compel this, 
except in case he were unwilling to depart from the city. 
For it had made no severer provision against those who 
do not wish to desert the cause of catabaptism than that 
they should leave the city. Meanwhile the legates of 
the Emperor came with a demand for the man to carry 
him to punishment. _ He was denied them on the basis 
of the law which provides that no citizen shall be put on 
his defence on any other charge than that for which he 
had been arrested. Such was the sin of the Council 
against that man, they defended him from the demand 
of Cesar just as though he were a citizen! And this 
aided, that he was in prison before he was in ‘ free 
guard.’ However this may be, he was free when we 
came together and for some time after was guarded at 
the court house. Then a form of recantation was 
drawn up, not in accordance with any formula of the 
Council or of anyone, but by his own hand. And 
when he had read this in the church to which the name 


1530] The Inner Course 255 


Abbey is given,’ and the address which I delivered to 
the people had been finished, he straightway denied the 
recantation in the presence of the whole assembly. 

“He did this supposing that he had an opportunity of 
speaking, and then adduced much against the baptism 
of infants and in favour of catabaptism. Hence there 
was a persistent rumour (but I think it is speculation) 
that he was secretly prompted to do this so that some 
commotion might result; for they hoped that I would go 
away when my speech was delivered. He was cast anew 
into prison and was held there for a month longer. Then 
he finally declared that he was entirely ignorant of saying 
anything to vitiate his recantation; and if he said any- 
thing else than what he had promised he must have been 
possessed by ademon. He put together a new recanta- 
tion. I went around to my friends with the request that 
they would obtain a merciful judgment from the Council. 
This was granted. When he offered to make a final 
statement it was decreed through pity that he should 
make an express disavowal and then should depart im- 
mediately from the territory. I then personally besought 
Engelhard, Leo, and Megander [Grossmann], my fellow- 
bishops, that they should intercede in company with me 
before the Council; for if he were driven out immediately 
after his disavowal, grave peril would threaten him both 
from our Swiss and from Cesar. The Council listened 
to our request, and after the recantation, which he pre- 
tended he made heartily, whereas there could have been 
nothing less hearty, a space of time was given him to 
stay until there should be found an opportunity of send- 
ing him first in safety. And this came about through a 

1 The Minster of Our Lady (Fraumiinster) on the opposite bank of 


the Limmat to the Great Minster. Hofmeister was people’s priest 
there then. 


256 Huldreich Zwingli [1525- 


certain member of the Council who is most faithful in 
the cause of Christ, and he was secretly sent away so 
that the citizens did not know of his departure. See, 
my Peter, with how great generosity we treated the fellow 
and with what treachery he responded. For as soon as 
he reached Constance he so calumniated me before the 
ministers of the Word and boasted of his victory that I 
do not know but he turned some of them against me. 
So unprepared are some for the detection of hypocrisy. 
We kept everything secret. When he went away he so 
worked on those good men’s feelings that they gave him 
ten gold pieces. And yet either he or his wife had 
more gold than they had silver. Thus do they abuse 
our simple-mindedness who advance their own interests 
under the guise of piety. But that the man should so 
revile me is not to be wondered at, for he saw from the 
beginning that I abhorred him and his practices. I give 
the man credit for cleverness and studious moderation; 
but still I see in him (I trust I am mistaken) nothing 
more than an immoderate thirst for money and notoriety. 
Accordingly I am quite indifferent to what he may whis- 
per about me into the ears of others. It is certain at any 
rate that he will act according to the saying in the 
comedy: ‘It has not succeeded here, let us go else- 
where.’ May the Omnipotent extinguish by celestial 
dew this desire for glory which glows in the hearts of 
some !” 


Zwingli’s first book on Baptism’ was written in ~ 
German for popular use and dedicated to the city 


of St. Gall. In the dedicatory introduction he 


1TI., I, 230-303. See list, p. 248, 


1530] The Inner Course 257 


alludes to the origin of the Baptist party, to their 
principal tenets and to their treatment. The treatise 
is divided into four parts: 1. Baptism in general; 
2. The initia or institution of Baptism; 3. Re- 
baptism; 4. Infant Baptism. 

The discussion is prolix, but biblical and earnest. 
Much of it is directed at the Baptists. He con- 
fesses at the beginning that no amount of argument 
which he could bring to bear had any effect upon 
the Baptists," except to make them more obstinate 
and contemptuous, which is not to be wondered at 
seeing it was accompanied by threats of punishment 
if they did not recant. 

Towards the close he thus puts together the pro- 
positions he had attempted to prove. I. Baptism 
in general—1. The soul is cleansed by the grace of 
God and not by any external thing whatsoever. 2. 
Hence it follows that baptism cannot wash away 
sin. 3. But if it cannot while yet it is divinely in- 
stituted then it must be a sign of obedience, and 
nothing else. II. Infant Baptism— 4. The children 
of Christians are not less the children of God than 
their parents are, or than the children in Old Testa- 
ment times were: but if they belong to God who 
will refuse them water baptism? 5. Circumcision 
in the Old Testament was the same sign as bap- 
tism in the New; so as the former was applied to 
children of the one so should baptism be to those 
of the latter. III. Rebaptism—6. Rebaptism is 
neither taught anywhere in the Word of God, nor 


Et 235 S90- 


258 Huldreich Zwingli [1525- 


can an example or proof of it be found therein ; 
therefore those who practise rebaptism crucify 
Christ afresh either out of self-righteousness or in 
order to do something novel. After these propo- 
sitions he gives the form of baptism used in the 
Zurich churches. 

Two years later Zwingli wrote a Latin treatise on 
Baptism, primarily for the use of the pastors whose 
parishes had been invaded by the Baptists, but also 
in parts it is a direct reply to the Baptists them- 
selves. It is important as giving his maturer thought 
and still more for its quotations, but its temper is 
bad and its style contemptuous. It betrays its 
animus in its title “‘ Refutation of the Tricks of the 
Catabaptists.”’ This name Catabaptist (z.e., drown- 
er)’ for the Baptists Zwingli and his admirers seemed 
to consider appropriate and in itself an unanswerable 
argument. 

It is very noteworthy that in neither of these 
lengthy treatises nor in the quotations from Bap- 
tist writings in the second, is the question of 


1 Printed by Christopher Froschauer, Zurich, 1527, 8vo, pp. I9I; 
reprinted in volume with letter by C&colampadius and Zwingli, 
edited by Bibliander (Basel), 8vo, 1548 (ii., 8rb-113b), and in re- 
print of latter by Grynaeus (Basel), 1592, 12mo, pp. 371-520. In 
Zwingli’s Works, ili., 358-437. 

? It is traced to Gregory Nazianzen’s Oration on Baptism, delivered 
in 381. In 536 a Constantinopolitan synod called the baptistery of 
heretics a Katabaptisterion, 7. €., the place where persons were so 
dipped that they were drowned. See Sophocles, Lexicon, sub voce. 
Equally opprobrious is the term Anabaptist applied to the Bap- 
tist party, z. e., those who baptised again in years of discretion 
those previously baptised in infancy. But the Baptists denied 


1530] The Inner Course 250 


immersion or sprinkling even so much as touched 
upon. The primitive Baptists attacked infant bap- 
tism. They considered it of minor consequence 
whether the water in baptism was a drop or a 
deluge. 

The book appeared Wednesday, July 31, 1527, 
just about the time that Zurich had invited Bern, 
Schaffhausen, Chur, and St. Gall to send delegates 
to a disputation on the Baptists to be held on Fri- 
day, August 2d, and in the letter had informed them 
that as the result of a disputation held among them- 
selves it was determined to punish those administer- 
ing immersion with submersion, z. ¢., drowning, and 
other less offending members of the Baptist party 
with scourging or other punishments, according to 
their guilt; that still the heresy was on the increase; 
and that it was not merely religiously but morally 
subversive. A monitory letter was sent to Con- 
stance and Augsburg also that they should beware 
of Denk, who was visiting ‘‘ Catabaptists ’’ within 
and without their walls.’ 

On September 9, 1527, Zurich, Bern, and St. 
Gall published an edict, in which for the first time 
the alleged errors and crimes of the Baptist party 
are set forth’; viz.: 


that they did this; rather they affirmed that the use of water in the 
name of the Trinity over a babe was no baptism at all, and hence 
that they did not rebaptise anyone. They administered true bap- 
tism for the first time to those who after confession of faith desired 
the rite. 

UU -35 7 

* The edict is given in full in German in Simler’s Sammlung 


260 Huldreich Zwingli [1525- 


‘‘ They seduce men from the congregations of the ortho- 
dox teachers and assail the public preachers with abuse; 
they babble in corners, woods, and fields; contract spirit- 
ual marriages, thereby giving occasion for adulteries; 
even command crime in the name of the Lord, e. g., the 
parricide at St. Gall; glory in divine revelations and 
miracles; teach that the Devil will be saved, and that in 
their church one could indulge lust without crime; had 
other signs of the covenant aside from catabaptism ; 
would not carry swords; pronounced usury and the lot 
wicked; would have all external goods common and de- 
posited in the midst of them, so that no one could use 
them as his own peculiar right; forbade Christians to 
accept the magistracy or to say an oath was proper. In 
order that this growth, dangerous to Christianity, wicked, 
harmful, turbulent, seditious, may be eradicated, we 
have thus decreed: if any one is suspected of catabap- 
tism he is to be warned by the magistracy to leave off, 
under penalty of the designated punishment.  Indi- 
viduals as the civil contract obliges should inform upon 
those favourable to catabaptism. Whoever shall not fit 
his conduct to this dissuasion is liable to punishment 
according to the sentence of the magistracy and as 
special business; teachers, baptising preachers, itiner- 
ants and leaders of conventicles, or those previously 
released from prison and who have sworn to desist from 
such things, are to be drowned. Foreigners, their faith 
being pledged, are to be driven out, if they return are to 
be drowned. No one is allowed to secede from the 
Church and absent himself from the Holy Supper. Men 
led into the error by fraud may receive a mitigation of 
alter und neuer Urkunden zur Beleuchtung der Kirchengeschichte 


vornemlich des Schweizer-Landes (i., 2, 449-458). The summary in 
Zwingli’s Works (ili., 357-358) is here used, 


"300INd AVNOD WOU SHOINNZ 





Che - 





Pi Pee Fc ee 


es) The Inner Course 261 


their punishment in proportion to their property and 
standing. Whoever flees from one jurisdiction to an- 
other shall be banished or given up on demand.”’ 


It was then in view of this legislation that Zwingli 
produced his ‘‘ Refutation,’’ and it was intended to 
be final. It is in the form of verbal quotation from 
witness accepted by the Baptists with a reply. 

In Part I. he thus quotes a treatise, written prob- 
ably by Conrad Grebel, which was much admired 
and read among the Zurich Baptists, and in which 
Zwingli is set forth as supporting more or less 
heartily all their tenets. Zwingli pleaded that he 
was misunderstood, misquoted, and intentionally 
slandered, and his ruffled spirits are the only justifi- 
cation of the.treatment he gave the Baptists. But 
his refutation is prolix, abusive, and weak. He 
accuses the Baptists of hypocrisy and immorality 
and quotes instances. As Zwingli was an honest 
man and had exceptional sources of information, 
what he says cannot be pooh-poohed.’ Rather is 
it likely that the persecutions of the Baptists had 
increased the tendency to fanaticism and insubordi- 
nation among the ignorant membership so recently 
emancipated from Roman Catholic superstition, and 
so liberty was occasionally turned into licence and 
the confidence of some women in the supposed holi- 
ness of these Baptist saints, who claimed to be the 
proper rulers of mankind, was abused. But that 
the sect was corrupt or hypocritical is a charge 


1See the direct charges posited on personal knowledge (iii., 382 
5.) 


262 Huldreich Zwingli [1525- 


which refutes itself. And even if it were true, the 
modern Baptists are not responsible for the doings 
of their religious forbears. 

In Part II. Zwingli treats in the same fashion, 
quoting verbally and refuting, the Confession of 
Faith drawn up by the Bernese Baptists. The 
‘Confession was not published, but was widely 
‘circulated in manuscript among the Baptists. It 
bore the title ‘‘ Articles which we have drawn up 
and to which we agree, viz., Baptism; Excommu- 
nication; Breaking of Bread; Avoidance of abom- 
inable pastors in the Church; the Sword; the 
Oath.” 

Zwingli treats the Confession with great scorn 
and attempts its refutation in a bad spirit. He 
addresses himself directly to the Baptists, in most 
cases. And yet the Confession is witness to the 
fact that the excesses and occasional immoralities 
of the sect were dire contradictions to its pure and 
lofty principles. Blind to this, Zwingli repeats 
again the injurious remarks on the morals of the 
Baptists because he believed they were abundantly 
justified and he was dealing with a party which he 
regarded as a danger to Church and State. Take 
especially the quoted teaching of the Confession re- 
specting the Sword, z. ¢., civil authority, and against 
the use of the oath. In this connection he tells in . 
a jeering manner the shameful story of the infamous 
treatment accorded poor Blaurock in this para- 
graph’: 


Oo) WU tay Gee 


1530] The Inner Course 263 


‘“(8) They rightly admonish us that Christ taught that 
our speech should be Yea, Yea, and Nay, Nay; yet they 
do not seem to me to understand it clearly, or if they do 
understand it to obey it. For though in many places 
they should often have said Yea, it has never been Yea. 
When those leaders were banished, against whom we 
wrote as best we could, and asked for an oath they 
would not reply except to the effect that through the 
faith which they had in God they knew they would never 
return, and yet they soon returned. ‘ The Father,’ each 
said, ‘led me back through His will.’ I know very well 
that it was the father —of lies who led them back; but 
they pretend to know it was the Heavenly Father. Here 
is something worth telling: When that George (whom 
they all call a second Paul) of the House of Jacob 
[Blaurock], was cudgelled with rods among us even to 
the infernal gate and was asked by an officer of the 
Council to take oath and lift up his hands [in affirma- 
tion], he at first refused, as he had often done before 
and had persisted in doing. Indeed he had always said 
that he would rather die than take an oath. The officer 
of the Council then ordered him forthwith to lift his 
hands and make oath at once, ‘or do you, policemen,’ he 
said, ‘lead him to prison.’ But now persuaded by rods 
this George of the House of Jacob raised his hand to 
heaven and followed the magistrate in the recitation of 
the oath. So here you have the question confronting 
you, Catabaptists, whether that Paul of yours did or did 
not transgress the law. The law forbids to swear about 
the least thing: he swore, so he transgressed the law. 
Hence this knot is knit: You would be separated from 
the world, from lies, from those who walk not according 
to the resurrection of Christ but in dead works? How 
then is it that you have not excommunicated that Apos- 


264 Huldreich Zwingli [1525- 


tate? Your Yea is not Yea with you nor your Nay, Nay, 
but the contrary ; your Yea is Nay and your Nay, Yea. 
You follow neither Christ nor your own constitution.” ’ 


Part III. is subdivided: (a) The two covenants. 
That which God made with Israel included infants. 
Circumcision was the external sign of this covenant. 
Christians are the heirs of Israel; with them He has 
made a new covenant, in which the children are in- 
cluded, of which baptism is the external sign. (b) 
Election, which Zwingli says is above baptism, cir- 
cumcision, faith and preaching. (c) That the Apos- 
tles baptised infants. 

These three parts are followed by a brief but most 
interesting appendix, in which he taxes the Baptists 
with teaching (1) the sleep of the soul; (2) the salva- 
tion of the devil and of all the wicked; (3) the right 
of Christians universally to exercise the office of 
preacher; (4) the right occasionally to deny Scrip- 
ture and follow the inner revelation of the Spirit. 
These errors he curtly refutes. 

After this Zwingli wrote nothing of great length 
against the Baptists. His last published utterance 
was in reply to the questions of Caspar Schwenck- 
feld.* In it he developed further his idea of the re- 
lation of election to baptism, which was apparently 
this: by election God secured the salvation of some. 
Children of Christians belong by birth to the visible 
Church, but this Church includes both the elect and 


1Can anything be more contemptible than this gloating over a 
poor tortured wretch ? 
? In Latin, iii., 563-588, 


1530] The Inner Course 265 


the rejected. As no one can determine which is 
which, it would be an injustice to refuse any such 
child baptism, which is the outward sign of election. 
But baptism is only a sign of grace and does not 
_confer it. 

In consequence of the cruel treatment they re- 
ceived, the Baptists after a time ceased to exist in 
the canton of Zurich except in very small and scat- 
tered gatherings. Zwingli’s attacks upon them were 
greatly admired by his fellow religionists in and 
outside of Zurich. They found no fault with his 
harsh and cruel jibes, his exaggerated tales and 
coarse anecdotes. They did not mind his prolixity. 
As for his arguments, they considered them un- 
answerable. 


CHAPTER -xiit 


THE FINAL STAGE OF THE ZWINGLIAN REFORMA- 
TION 


1524-1529 


HE years of Zwingli’s life from 1524 to 1529 
may properly receive comparatively brief men- 
tion. They were very busy, interesting, and even 
exciting for him, but not so important as the former 
years.. The work of breaking with the Old Church 
had been completed: only the adjustment of the 
churches of the canton of Zurich to the new state 
of things, the defence of their faith and polity 
against all comers — restless peasants, more deter- 
mined Baptists, Lutherans, and adherents of the 
Old Church —remained. But the students of sys- 
tematic theology, of ecclesiastical polity, and of 
liturgies may consider these closing years of Zwingli’s 
life his more fruitful years. The ordinary reader 
desires to know what was actually done during this 
period and may be told in a few pages, the peasant 
and Baptist troubles having been separately treated 
in the preceding chapter. The successive topics 
which claimed Zwingli’s attention are brought out 
in his correspondence. 
On January 14, 1525,’ he felt called upon to write 
a very eloquent epistle to the Dreibund, the magis- 


IVITI., 380-383 ; Latin trans., 378-380. 
3 
266 


[1524-1520] The Final Stage 267 


tracy of Rhztia, the modern canton of the Grisons; 
in which the Reformation had begun to make head- 
way, urging these gentlemen to protect those who 
professed it, and also defending himself and fellow 
Zurichers against the charge of sedition. He ap- 
peals to them to state if it is not true that the 
Church of Rome is hopelessly corrupt and grasping. 

The next day the City Councils issued an import- 
ant order respecting the public relief of the poor 
and sick. Some of the regulations are singular; as, 
for instance, requiring church-going on the part of 
beneficiaries and, more objectionably, to wear a dis- 
tinctive badge, thereby publishing their condition. 
It was not to be expected that the Zurich City 
Fathers in the sixteenth century should make any 
approach to scientific charity, with its exact registra- 
tion and rigid investigation of the applicants, and 
which demands that there shall not be any public 
outdoor relief. The Zurich Councillors, however, 
honestly endeavoured to distinguish between the 
applicants, sorting out first the genuine Zurichers 
from the strangers, and then among the Zurichers 
giving alms as far as possible only to those who 
through no fault were in need.* 

Another important piece of internal regulation, 
viz., relative to marriage and divorce, inspired and 
formulated by Zwingli,* was passed by the Councils 
on May Io, 1525.° Briefly, marriages were usually 


1See the ordinance in Egli, 4. S., 619; in modern German in 
Morikofer, i., 252-255. 


7 II., 2, 356-359. 
3 Egli, A. S., 711; in modern German in Mérikofer, i,, 260-262. 


268 Huldreich Zwingli [1524- 


to be public, in churches, and with the consent of 
parents or guardians. Even though the discovery 
should soon be made that the parties were unfitted 
for living together, still they are to live together for 
a year, and then they may be divorced. Divorces 
may be granted for other causes. Adultery is a 
crime to be severely punished by the authorities. 
So also seduction and like offences when marriage 
cannot be arranged. Those who commit adultery 
hoping thereby to secure a divorce and so be free to 
contract another marriage, or to live unchastely, 
were to be excommunicated and for ever banished. 
By thus claiming for Zurich the adjudication of the 
matrimonial cases the break with the past was still 
further emphasised, as formerly all such cases came 
to the episcopal court in Constance. 

On June 30, 1525, he published his book on the 
office of the preacher, with a dedication to his fellow 
Toggenburgers.’ It was really directed against the 
Baptists, who claimed that all the Lord’s people were 
prophets. 

In September, 1525, Zwingli’s windows were 
broken by two drunken fellows; but the offence 
was magnified until it seemed as if Zwingli’s life 
were in danger, because underneath the drunken 
conduct was deep hatred of Zwingli’s teaching. 
But that so trivial an offence should have caused 
such a stir is a plain indication that Zwingli lived a 
very quiet and secure life.’ 

On October 28th, Zwingli, under the pen-name of 


1TI., 1, 304-336 ; in modern German by Christoffel, Ziirich, 1843. 
°VII., 409-412. 


139] The Final Stage 269 


“A certain Frenchman,” addressed a long letter to 
“* A citizen of Basel,’’ in criticism of Erasmus’s view 
on the Eucharist.". In March, 1525, Zwingli pub- 
lished his ‘‘ Commentary on the True and False 
Religion,” ? which goes over in a series of chapters 
all the points of evangelical theology. He wrote 
it, he says in three and one half months, in Latin, 
for general circulation, especially in France, thus 
redeeming his promise to French friends: and so 
he dedicated it to King Francis I. It resembles 
the exposition of the sixty-seven theses already 
mentioned. The part on the Lord’s Supper was 
separately issued in a German translation. It was 
_ of this book that Erasmus made his famous patro- 
nising remark: ‘‘ Oh, good Zwingli, what have you 
written which I did not write myself long before!’ * 

On April 14, 1525, Zwingli was chosen rector of 
the Carolinum, the Great Minster school; conse- 
quently he moved into the official residence of the 
rector, and lived there until death.* He used his 


1VII., 427-432. C&colampadius, to whom very likely it was sent, 
praises it (vii., 432). 

2 TII., 147-325. Herminyard reprints a part of the dedication in a 
French translation, in his Correspondance des Reformateurs (2d ed., 
Geneva, 1878), i., pp. 350, 351. 

WAWIE[., Bt0{0), 

4 This is the house which contains the present Zwingli room, upon 
the second story, shown to travellers. It is on the Kirch Gasse, on 
the left hand as one goes up the street from the Great Minster, and 
near the corner of the cathedral close. On it is the inscription : 
“‘Zwingli’s official residence. From this house he went forth on 
October If, 1531, with the Zurich troops to Cappel, where he died 
for his faith,” The room in it called his study and the adjoining 


270 Huldreich Zwingli [1524- 


new position to improve the schools and took part 
himself in the biblical instruction, which he had 
made part of the curriculum. That he was still 
fond of humanistic studies and had not forgotten 
his Greek amid all his absorbing labours, he demon- 
strated by issuing on February 24, 1526, in Basel, 
an edition of the poems of Pindar.’ 

In 1526 a public disputation was held between 
the representatives of the Bishop of Constance and 
of the Reformed upon matters of faith. The place 
chosen was Baden, a famous watering-place, only — 
twelve miles north-west of Zurich, but in the hands 
of the bitterest partisans of the Roman Church. 
Under the semblance of fairness and impartiality 
the object of the disputation was really to condemn 
Zwingli and Zurich for their opposition to the 
Roman Church, and considering the character of 
the crowd who would there assemble, it was more 
than doubtful if Zwingli would have escaped per- 
sonal violence if he had ventured thither.” As it 
was, though urged, he declined to go. 

The disputation at Baden was the Old Church’s 
reply to the Zurich disputations of 1523. The con- 
ditions were exactly reversed. The friends of the 
Reformation packed the former, the opponents of 
it the latter. The immediate occasion of it was 


room called his bedroom may be, as claimed, the same as they were 
in his day, but the rest of the house, as is the case with the other 
Zwingli houses, has been reconstructed. 

‘His Latin preface and epilogue are given in iv., 159-166, 

*So his brother-in-law, Tremp, warned him from Bern not te 
yenture thither, as he had heard alarming reports (vii., 483), 


1529] The Final Stage 271 


John Eck’s offer from Ingolstadt to the Swiss Diet 
at Baden, on August 13, 1524, to refute Zwingli’s 
heresies in a public disputation. The challenge 
was communicated to Zwingli, and he replied to 
this on August 31st, in the insulting language he 
thought proper to use towards his Roman Catholic 
opponents, offering to debate with Eck in Zurich.’ 
Eck replied very dignifiedly that he would meet 
Zwingli at Baden or Luzern, provided he had proper 
safe conduct. He shows much better spirit than 
Zwingli.* The letter having béen sent to the Zurich 
authorities, Zwingli replied that he would dispute in 
Zurich, and his reply appeared in print.* And on 
the same day, November 6, 1524, the Great Council 
invited Eck to Zurich and sent him a safe conduct.’ 
But he declined to come, simply because the place 
for the proposed disputation was to be decided by 
the cantonal assembly and he would meet Zwingli 
there. On November 18th he replied at length to 
Zwingli’s latest attack. 

In 1525 the project of the disputation was revived. 
The Bishop of Constance chose Baden as the place. 
Zwingli declared his willingness, if necessary, to 
go to Schaffhausen or St. Gall, but the city Great 
Council refused him permission to go out of Zurich. 
The Diet at Luzern, on January 15, 1526, deter- 
mined on Baden as the place and May 16, 1526, as 
the time. Zwingli’s correspondence of 1526 shows 
clearly the course of events. After the disputation 


1TT., 2; 399, 400. 2 TI., 2, 400-403. 8TI., 2, 403-405. 
4I1., 2, 411-414. 5 Bullinger, 1., 334 sgq. 


272 Huldreich Zwingli / frg24- 


was determined upon there was uncertainty in re- 
gard to the place. Bern favoured Basel. Other 
cantons wanted Luzern. Cécolampadius naturally 
preferred Bern. Zwingli did not want to go out of 
Zurich.’ Perhaps his physical condition had some- 
thing to do with it. C£colampadius, on March 7, 
1526, alluded to his having ulcers.” Zwingli him- 
self, writing to Vadianus on Friday, March 3o0th,* 
tells of an alarming attack of illness which had oc- 
curred that day. On April 16, 1526, Zwingli wrote 
a long letter* to the City Council of Bern giving 
his reasons why he would not go to Baden for the 
disputation, although anxious to debate in sucha 
presence. The nine reasons amount to this—that 
the safe conduct and protection which Bern pro- 
mised were really valueless under the circumstances 
because at Baden the Five Forest Cantons, Uri, 
Schwyz, Unterwalden, Luzern, and Zug, devoted 
to the old teaching, would outvote the other three 
cantons of Zurich, Bern, and Basel, devoted to the 
new. He then proceeds to give his reasons for de- 
clining to go to any place where the Five Cantons 
had control. 1. Those cantons had condemned him 
unheard as a heretic and burnt his books. 2. They 
still persist in doing so. 3. They have avowedly 
gotten up the disputation for the purpose of silencing 
him. 4. As they have ordered him arrested, con- 
trary to federal law, what value would their safe 
conduct -have? 5. They are bound by mutual 


SVAN Gr Os 2VIT 479. SVII., 484. 
4VII., 493-496 ; also in the original German, pp. 496-499. 


1529] eitierrinal:Stage 273 


vows to uproot the faith he professed. 6. Their 
negotiations for the disputation were with Eck and 
Faber exclusively, not with him, he not being in any 
way consulted. 7. While Eck’s and Faber’s writings 
are freely circulated in the Five Cantons, his were 
suppressed. 8. He had two years before plainly 
told Eck and company that under no consideration 
would he go to Baden or Luzern. 

Very naturally the Five Cantons insisted upon 
Baden. 

On April 21, 1526, Zwingli addressed ‘‘ A friendly 
letter to the confederates of the Twelve Cantons 
and their allies, upon the disputation which is pro- 
jected at Baden on the 16th of May.”* He read it 
before the Council and then sent it in in printed 
form. It gives his reasons for declining to go to 
Baden. The next day in writing to Vadianus he 
says: 


‘* Even if I agreed to Baden, the people of Zurich 
would not consent. A great part of the Council were 
not very well pleased because I offered to go to Bern or 
St. Gall. It would seem wise for you to agree to reply 
to the opposing cantons somewhat as follows: That you 
had been at the disputations at Zurich, that there they 
are sufficiently learned and had no need of further dis- 
putations, etc., unless other places were selected.” ? 


Probably shortly after he had. despatched this 
letter he received an open one from Faber,” his for- 
mer friend, dated Tuebingen, April 16th, in which 


1TI., 2, 424-429. 2VII., 500. 3TI., 2, 429-436. 
18 


274 Huldreich Zwingli (1524- 


he was vigorously handled as a heretic. Zwingli 
took it up almost clause by clause for refutation, on 
April 30th, and again on May 15th.’ The nine 
cantons renewed their request for his presence but 
the Council refused it at the Diet at Baden held on 
May toth, and to which they sent a delegation. 
Zwingli wrote at the same time. Thus the matter 
was discussed back and forth. But without altering 
the determination on either side and the disputa- 
tion finally opened at Baden, on Monday, May 2tst, 
in the absence of Zwingli.’ 

On the Old Church side the principal champion 
was John Eck, who really was a skilful and learned 
disputant, and who had, as he and the Old Church 
party believed, won such a notable victory over 
Luther at Leipzig in 1518; on the side of the 
Zwinglian patty Cecolampadius, of Basel, Haller, 
of Bern, and Oechsli, of Schaffhausen, carried on 
the debate. Zwingli was kept constantly informed 
of the proceedings and constantly aided his repre- 


MIL., 2, 436-453, 467-484. In his letter to Vadianus on May 11th 
(vii., 503), he says: ‘‘ Faber has written against my former epistle 
in which I set forth my refusal to go to Baden. There I find the 
man far funnier than before. . . . If the Disputation at Baden 
does anything that opposes the Word of God, the people are not will- 
ing to receive in regard to it either propositions or commands. They 
will cherish the treaties honourably. If violence be offered to Zurich 
or any of the cantons, they will furnish aid to the wronged. In the. 
government of the provinces they will follow this rule, not to sit 
when Zurich is not represented. . . . The Council refuses me 
to the Disputation at Baden. I have written a frank but kindly 
letter to the Diet” (cf. ii., 2, 455-459). 

? The papers connected with this Diet at Baden are collected (ii., 
2, 398-520). They are all in German, 


1529] The Final Stage 275 


sentatives by suggestions and every other way he 
could.’ 

The debate lasted four weeks, or till June 18th. 
Both sides, as usual, claimed the victory. The acts 
were published in full at Luzern on May 18, 1527, 
which probably was not too Jong a delay, although 
made a cause of complaint and construed as a con- 
fession of defeat by the Zwingli party.’ 

On July 2, 1526,*° Zwingli wrote a long and earn- 
est letter, which is almost a treatise, to Nuremberg 
because his and Cécolampadius’s writings had been 
prohibited there, and therein took occasion to ex- 
press himself very plainly upon his theology of the 
Eucharist, mainly in reply to Pirkheimer. * 


1 The Zwingli correspondence enables us to get a vivid picture of 
the debate. It shows that down to May 21st, Gicolampadius tried to 
have the place changed and that he recognised the peril Zwingli would 
have been in by going to Baden, notwithstanding the emphatic and 
reiterated promise of safe conduct. But then, as he says, he was in 
periltoo, The fact is, Zwingli’s absence was deplored by his friends. 
Myconius, writing years afterward, says: ‘‘ Zwingli laboured more in 
running about, cogitating, watching, counselling, warning, writing 
both letters and books which he sent to Baden, than he would have 
done had he taken part in the Disputation or been in the midst of his 
foes, particularly against a chief so unskilled in the truth. Still 
I have for my part desired nothing more earnestly than that he had 
been permitted to take part personally” (p. 10). 

? An incomplete report was published in July of the year before 
(vil., 524). (Ecolampadius sent Zwingli on October 18, 1526, a 
summary of the contents of the official report, which had been 
carefully edited to put the Reformed at a disadvantage (vii., 553). 
Zwingli told the Strassburgers in December, 1526 (vii., 578) that 
signature G of it had been seized when on its way from Murner to 
the Suffragan Bishop of Constance. 

5 VIII., 656-662. 

4On July 17th a friend told him that his and GEcolampadius’s writ- 
ings would not be sold at Nuremberg under heavy penalty (vii., 526). 


- 276 Huldreich Zwingli we 


In the latter part of the year Zwingli watched the 
politics of his neighbours with keen interest, but 
with the advancement of the Gospel interests ever 
in view. On August 31, 1526,’ he wrote a very 
gossipy letter full of information, telling how Eck 
used at Baden the Complutensian Polyglot, which 
had the Latin version side by side with the Hebrew 
and the Greek, and so by apparently reading un- 
aided from the Hebrew and Greek got a reputation 
for learning he did not deserve; and how poor Bal- 
thasar Hubmaier, in his examination before the 
Council, quoted Zwingli’s remarks about catechu- 
mens, as showing his former preference to have bap- 
tism follow instruction ’®; how he recanted and then 
withdrew his recantation; and how generously 
Zwingli treated him, and how basely Hubmaier re- 
viled him when escaped from the city. He closes 
with some slighting remarks upon Luther: ‘‘ I think 
you are too solicitous in the matter of that man who 
is said to be writing against me in German and Latin 
on the Eucharist. In nothing do I promise myself 
a more certain victory.”’ 

On September 17, 1526,*° he complained of being 
sick. On October 2g9th,* he confesses to personal 
acquaintance with the gravel. On November 2oth,”° 
he tells of the execution of Jacob Grebel, the father 
of Conrad, for treason, and of his wrong-doing 
towards his son’s wife; that his (Zwingli’s) book 
against Dr. Jacob Strauss would be out before 
Christmas, and that he had not yet begun his reply 


IVIT., 534-538. 2 See p. 246. SVT 5355 
4VII., 556. Savile 505: 


1529| The Final Stage 277 


to Luther, but would have it ready for the Frank- 
fort Fair. In a letter which was ‘‘ written at Zu- 
rich in the hour which precedes the eclipse (since 
we are measuring all by the moon), 1526,” conse- 
quently on Tuesday, December 18th,’ he mentions 
that the Acts of the Disputation at Baden were 
passing through the press and would have a very 
partisan preface; that he had prepared a catechism 
for boys*; that he had finished his reply to Dr. 
Jacob Strauss upon the Lord’s Supper, but it was 
not yet in type,’ and says again that the expostula- 
tion with Luther upon the same subject would be 
ready for the Frankfort Fair.° 

Zwingli in January, 1527, wrote to the Bernese 
delegates at Baden to secure an authentic copy of 
the report of the Baden disputation of the previous 
summer and also proposed another disputation at 
Zurich, Bern, Basel, or St. Gall. On January 11th, 
he issued his reply to Dr. Jacob Strauss upon the 


1So in letter of Dec. 18th. 

2VII., 578-579. For the information that this was the date of the 
eclipse and that it was total at Zurich I am indebted to Professor 
Harold Jacoby, of Columbia. University, New York City. 

3 This was not printed till 1544. 

4It appeared on January II, 1527. 

5It appeared February 28, 1527. See p. 298. The Frankfort 
Fair was the great book mart. Zwingli, like Luther, made nothing 
from his publications. In which respect he resembled most modern 
authors, only he expected nothing! He once wrote to Vadianus 
(May 28, 1525, vii., 398): ‘‘ There was a man lately who said that I 
sold copies to the printers at a high price. That man lied against 
the Holy Spirit. It must not be permitted therefore that this can be 
said with truth. I ask nothing than that they commend me to the 
Lord Jesus Christ.” 


278 Huldreich Zwingli [1524- 


Lord’s Supper,’ and on the same day wrote to Philip, 
Marquis of Baden, in Germany,’ in whose territory 
Strauss lived, commending his book against Strauss 
to the Marquis’s attention. On January 25th, he 
announces the coming conference between Zurich, 
Bern, Basel, Schaffhausen, and St. Gall.* On Feb- 
ruary 12th, in speaking of his books written and in 
preparation, he says that his Archeteles was full of 
printing errors; but he had no more copies to give 
away ; that he would send the printer his ‘“ Exegesis” 
for Luther intwelve days. ‘This is friendly in tone, 
except that I have dealt a little sharply with the 
Swabian scribes.’’* On February 28th, he published 
his “‘ Friendly Exegesis,’’ and accompanied it with 
an open letter to Luther,’ which Luther pronounced 
*“ fierce.’?’ On March 30th, he issued a “‘ Friendly 
defence and deprecation of the sermon of the excel- 
lent Martin Luther preached in Wittenberg against 
the Fanatics, and to defend the reality of the Body 
and Blood of Christ in the Sacrament.’”’* This was 
really an attack upon Luther, and two days later he 
follows it up with another letter’ full of insinuations 
and exceedingly riling, and stirred Luther up as no 
other attack had done, as Luther’s correspondence 
abundantly shows.° 

The fact was that Zwingli and Luther could by 
no possibility be friends. Each was a pope in his 
way, only Luther ruled a nation and Zwingli a city. 


1TJ., 1, 469-506. 5TII., 459-462. 
PENI Ds 6TT., 2, I-15. 
®VIIT., 20-22. TVIII., 39-41. 


eNOS, BRL 8 See the extracts given (vili., 41). 


1529] The Final Stage 279 


Each was absolutely sure of himself and that he had 
found out the truth. Each had no belief in the 
honesty or capacity of those who differed from him. 
Zwingli was jealous of Luther because he was so 
much more famous, and in his letters to him at- 
tempts to patronise him. Luther considered Zwingli 
a heretic. He compared him with Arius! Mani- 
festly the best thing for both parties was to attempt 
no contact. Instead of doing so they carried on 
directly and indirectly a protracted and abusive con- 
troversy, disgraceful to both of them. What they 
both needed was good breeding. Their unhappy con- 
troversy was discreditable to both of them.’ Its practi- 
cal effect was to divide and so weaken Protestantism. 

On April 30th, he alludes to the many persons 
who had made Zurich a place of refuge.” On May 
22d, he affirms the validity of Roman Catholic 
baptism : 


‘* For even though there be things diabolic in papal bap- 
tism yet they cannot nullify the Lord’s words, ‘I baptise 
thee in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the 
Holy Ghost’; so that it should not be true baptism; un- 
less we are prepared to say, that the devil or the Roman 
Pontiff is stronger than the Lord.’’ * 


1 Zwingli’s final conclusions on the matter appear in his Confession 
of Faith in the Appendix to this volume. Beginning on August 29, 
1528, when he issued his Zfichiresis (iii., 83-116) upon the canon of 
the mass down to August 31, 1527, when he replied to Luther’s 
‘“Confession ” (ii., 2, 94-223), he published sixteen pieces, mostly of 
some length, upon the Lord’s Supper. His correspondence for the 
latter years of his life is also full of allusions to the matter. 


CVD Mensa NUM os Fh 


280 Huldreich Zwinghi [1524- 


On October rith, he mentions that thirteen hun- 
dred florins used to be taken in yearly in the Great 
Minster for sacerdotal offices and celebration of the 
mass for the dead.’ 

In the latter part of 1527 Zwingli’s thoughts took 
a new turn. The Reformation had made great 
headway in Bern, and the Bernese City Council, in 
imitation of that of Zurich, resolved on Sunday, 
November 17th, to hold a disputation in which the 
Word of God alone could be appealed to as sole 
authority for teachings respecting religion. The 
bishops of Constance, Basel, Lausanne, and Wallis 
and delegates from all the cantons were invited. 
The Zurich Council agreed to accept the invitation, 
December 7th.* Zwingli asked formal permission 
for himself and other scholars to go,* and the Coun- 
cil’s formal affirmative answer was passed December 
Tith. On December 15th, Zwingli was able to 
announce to CEcolampadius that all the prelimin- 
aries were then arranged.* On December 27, 1527, 
he sent a dignified letter to the Ulm City Council 
proposing to meet John Eck, who had slandered 
his dear friend, their pastor, Conrad Som, also 
(Ecolampadius, and himself, in Ulm, Memmingen, 
Constance, or Lindau.*® 

By invitation of the Zurich Council delegates from 
Schaffhausen, St. Gall, and Constance to the Bern 
disputation assembled in Zurich on January Ist, 
and so when the start was made the next day, which 
was Tuesday, there was quite an imposing array of 


1VTIII., 102. 21D... 3, L0-k7s cfs ell) Avo, 0930. 
EN LIT. c110: *V ELL; 125.00m ‘NATE Remsrs 





BERN CATHEDRAL. 





1529] The Final Stage 281 


ecclesiastics and other citizens, nearly one hundred 
in all; yet lest evil befall them it was accompanied 
by three hundred armed men to the borders of Bern. 
After that there was no danger. They entered 
Bern on January 4th. Zwingli and the burgomaster 
of Zurich, Diethelm Roeust, put up at the hospice, . 
which was directly opposite to the gate of the city. 
Zwingli’s brother-in-law, Leonhard Tremp, was mas- 
ter of the hospice and a City Councillor.’ Zwingli 
was easily the most distinguished man in the dis- 
putation, but the Roman Catholic theologians were 
conspicuous by their absence. They had of course 
no more desire than Zwingli had to talk to deaf ears 
or to expose themselves to insult and possible physi- 
cal violence. It was the fashion of the day to ridi- 
cule intellectual opponents and attribute everything 
bad to them, nor has the fashion passed away. 

The ‘‘ Acts of the Disputation’’ were published 
by Christopher Froschauer — the Zurich printer who 
published Zwingli’s writings —on April 23, 1528.’ 
It opens with the Bernese magistrates’ call to the 
disputation, covering six pages and dated ‘‘ Sun- 
day, the 17th day of the Winter month ’’ (which in 
the Swiss calendar is November), 1527. The date 
set for the beginning of the disputation was the 
first Sunday of the new year, which came on Janu- 
ary 5th. Then come the ten theses for debate pre- 
pared, with Zwingli’s assistance, by the local Re- 
formers Kolb and Haller, viz.*: 


EVAL eho : 

2 Tt is an 18mo, 34 signatures of 16 pages each, or 544 inall. It is 
reprinted ii., 1, 63-200, Cf. Zwingli’s letter of March 7th,, quoted . 
on page 300, Oe Oe 


282 Huldreich Zwingli [1524- 


‘*T, The Holy Christian Church, whose sole Head is 
Christ, is born of the Word of God, is animated by it, 
and hears not the voice of a stranger. II. The Church 
of Christ makes no addition to the law and ordinance of 
the Word of God. Consequently all human deliverances, 
as the Church ordinances are called, are not binding 
upon us except so far as they are grounded on and or- 
dained by the Word of God. III. Christ is our sole 
wisdom, righteousness, Saviour, and Redeemer for all 
the sin of the world. Consequently to confess another 
service of the saints and satisfaction for sin is to deny 
Christ. IV. That the Body and Blood of Christ are 
substantially and corporally received in the bread of 
the Eucharist cannot be proved from the Bible. V. The 
mass now in use wherein Christ is offered to God, the 
Father, for the sins of the living and dead is contrary to 
Scripture; to make a sacrifice to the Almighty out of the 
sufferings of the immortal Christ is a blasphemy and on 
account of the misuse of it an abomination in the sight 
of God. VI. As Christ died for us only, so He should 
be appealed to as the only mediator and intercessor be- 
tween God the Father and us believers, consequently 
all other mediators and intercessors besides now appealed 
to are to be repudiated by us on the ground of Scripture. 
VII. That after this time no purgatory will be found 
taught in the Scriptures. Consequently all services for 
the dead as vigils, requiems, soul-graces, sevens, spiritual 
consolations, anniversaries, ampulle, candles, and such 
like are vain. VIII. Making pictures for worship is 
contrary to the Word of God in the New and Old Testa- 
ments. Consequently wherever they are so placed as ta 
be in danger of worship they should be removed. IX. 
Holy marriage is in the Scripture forbidden to no class, 
but harlotry and unchastity all classes are commanded 


1529] The Final Stage 283 


to avoid. X. Since an openly immoral woman is under 
a heavy ban according to the Scripture, it follows that 
harlotry and unchastity on account of the scandal of it 
are in no class more shameful than in the priesthood.’’ 


Next comes the brief preface stating that the 
Acts had been copied carefully from the four orig- 
inal books of the notaries; the arrangements for the 
Disputation and the Acts themselves. The first 
formal session was on Monday afternoon, January 
6th, in the church of the Barefoot monks, 7. e., the 
Franciscans, before a large audience. The presi- 
dents were Joachim von Watt (Vadianus), of St. 
Gall, Nicholas Briefer, provost of St. Peter’s at 
Basel, and Conrad Schmid, comtur of Kuessnacht, 
in the canton of Zurich; and the first session was 
consumed in getting ready for the disputation which 
began Tuesday morning, and was opened by an ad- 
dress by Vadianus. Francis Kolb then read the 
first thesis and proceeded to defend it, and so the 
disputation commenced. The daily sessions began 
at 7 A.M. and 1 P.M. The Old Church was not 
represented by anyone of much prominence, and 
there was scarcely any more general debate than in 
the Zurich disputations. Zwingli spoke first on 
Wednesday, and at first took only a modest part. 
The disputation was closed on Sunday, January 
26th, and of course the City Council declared the 
Reformed the winners, and having already gone 
a long way in that direction before the disputa- 
tion began, completed the introduction of the 
Reformation into the city of Bern by abolishing 


284 Huldreich Zwingli | [x524- 


the mass and Church images on Monday, January 
27th.’ 

Shortly after his arrival in Bern, Zwingli heard 
that his wife had, on January 6th, borne him a son, 
whom he afterwards called Huldreich. So he sent 
her this letter,’ written doubtless in German, unfor- 
tunately the only one of his to his wife which has 
been preserved; in which he gives several commis- 
sions and says enough to rouse his wife’s jealousy: 


‘““ Grace and peace from God. My dear wife, I thank 
God that He has granted you so joyful a delivery. He 
will grant us to bring the child up according to His will. 
Send to my cousin one or two coifs of the same quality 
and style as those you wear yourself. She dresses as a 
woman of her station should, but not like a Beguine,’ is 
a married woman of forty, in all style and quality* such 
a one as Master Jérgen’s wife has described. She has 
been beyond measure kind to me and to us all. 

‘“ May God take care of you! Remember me to god- 
mother wife of the administrator; to Ulmann Trinckler 
and the wife of magistrate Effinger°; and to all whom 
you love. Pray God for me and us all. Given at Bern, 


INV LT ans 8: 

*VIII., 134. But more correctly deciphered in Theol. Zeitschrift 
aus der Schweiz, i., 191. 

* Zwingli made a rhyme here, ‘‘ sy kumpt z¢mmzlich doch nit begyn- 
lich.” The Beguines were a secular order of pious women whose 
vows resembled a nun’s, but were not irrevocable. 

4 Zwingli used the same words to describe his cousin and the coif, 
only he reverses their order. 

5 The first named was the sponsor of Zwingli’s eldest son Wilhelm ; 
Anna Keller, wife of the administrator of the Oetenbach nunnery ; 
the last two the sponsors of Huldreich, the child just born, Ulmann 
Trinckler and Elizabeth Effinger. 


1529] The Final Stage 285 


eleventh day of January. Remember me to all your 
children; especially Margaretha,* whom comfort in my 


name. 
‘* HULDREICH ZWINGLI, 


“Your husband. 
““ Send me as soon as possible my housecoat.”’ 


Zwingli preached a couple of times in Bern, on 
January 19th and 30th.’ 

In connection with the first sermon Bullinger tells 
this story: 


““When Zwingli was about to preach a priest was at 
an altar and put on his vestments to say a mass. But 
when Zwingli began to preach he stood still with the 
mass articles before him until the sermon was over. 
But Zwingli said in this sermon many powerful things 
against the mass; which so stirred the priest all attired 
as he was, that at the end of the sermon he drew off his 
pointed dress indignantly, threw it upon the altar, and 
said so that all bystanders easily heard it: ‘If the mass 
takes that shape, then I ’ll not to-day or at any time in 
the future hold mass.’ ’’ ® 


Zwinegli and his friends started for home on Janu- 
ary 31st, and arrived there safely the next day, again 
under military escort. On March 7th, he wrote 
thus of the disputation’*: 


1 Margaretha was his wife’s eldest daughter, born in 1505. See 
p. 232. 

2TI., 1, 203-229; translated into modern German; the first by 
Sigwart, Die vier Reformatoren, pp. 381-406 ; the second by Kessel- 
mann, Buch der Predigten, pp. 689-692, 

3 Bullinger, i., 436. 

4VIII., 146, 

20 


286 Huldreich Zwingli [1524- 


‘* Althamer is spreading around his tremendous false- 
hoods — that free speech was not permitted and that he 
debated against his will because of the challenge of 
Francis Kolb. Yet we all know that to them and espe- 
cially to him was accorded the greatest freedom, and that 
he cheerfully and willingly suffered himself to be selected 
by his party to perform the duty of the speaker on the plat- 
form. But what remains to the vanquished except grief ? 
The proceedings of the disputation are being diligently 
and carefully printed: thirty-four pages are at this time 
completed and perhaps twenty or more are tocome.’ The 
secretary from Thun, Eberhard von Rumlary, who was 
one of the scribes, is superintending, etc.’’ 


On April 8th, he published his plan for the first 
synod, which was held at Zurich on Tuesday, April 
21st, for the purpose of enforcing uniformity of doc- 
trine and correctness in living on the Zurich city 
and cantonal clergy.” Zwingli acted as censor, but 
the call was in the name of the City Council, and 
the examination was held before a delegation from 
it. A similar gathering under the same auspices 
and for the same purposes was held of the canons 
and remaining orders of clergy on May 1oth.° 

On May 4th, he alludes to the operation of what 
he calls the ‘‘ Munerarian law”’ (z. ¢., law of gift):. 


‘* As far as the appearance goes, who does not say that 
the enactment some time ago of the Munerarian law at 


1 What this means I do not know. The book has 544 pages in 
34 signatures ; perhaps he reckons another way. 

> See ii., 3, 19-21; also Egli, 4, S., 1391. 

PB Boli4) oS.,9t404. 





PRIEST CONVERTED AT THE PREACHING OF ZWINGLI IN BERN, 


1528. 


. 19, 


JAN 





A) oe 
ie 





je 


1529] The Final Stage 287 


Zurich (for I see that those Lutherans and Catabaptists 
are not without a purpose slandering Zurich) and now at 
Bern, is a good thing? Silver, gold, gems both silken 
and sumptuous clothing, are either laid aside or sold 
and distributed to the poor; evil speaking, perjury, 
carousing, and gambling are done away with; adultery, 
fornication, and brothels are forbidden; the wantonness 
of dancing both in the day and at night is controlled, 
nay that at night is interdicted; the pope, who was 
guarding the bridge and the way to the lower world, and 
his followers, the impious doctors, are put under re- 
straint; the mass is done away with and the images that 
stand forth to draw worship are removed; seductive cere- 
monial is abolished; and what is finest and best of all, 
the truth is preached, with boldness yet holiness, with 
brilliancy yet reverence, faithfully but not wantonly. 
And all this, not so much at the command of the apostles 
and the elders as at the demand of the people.’’ ’ 


On August 24th, he issued in Zurich a reprint of 
Hans Caspar Schwenckfeld’s treatise on the Lord’s 
Supper, with a preface,’ in which he called attention 
to the similarity between his doctrine and Schwenck- 
feld’s. This action of Zwingli’s involved Schwenck- 
feld in persecution through Fabri’s incitation, and 
he was compelled to leave his home in Silesia and 
betake himself to Strassburg. 

On August 30th, Zwingli published his reply * to 
Luther’s Confession, relative to the Lord’s Supper. 
He said on July 17th: 


‘*T shall begin to read Luther’s book to-morrow; but 
you need not be distrustful of the shortness of the time. 


PVITT,, 185. 2M.5 Bi, PE, CB ST, 2).94-223; 


288 Huldreich Zwingli [1524- 


It [Zwingli’s reply] shall be exposed for sale at the 
Frankfort Fair. Meanwhile the other brethren have 
read it, and have talked over with me as I took my walk 
the arguments which are most senseless, and also those 
which appear to the author most strong; so that I shall 
not favour a reply to many of the points, but ever 
oppose it.’’ * 


On July 21st, he wrote: 


‘“ IT am now engaged on the refutation of Luther’s 
book, which refutation you will see about September rst. 
I am indeed wholly averse to this kind of fighting; but 
what do they think is to be done by him who is attacked 
with edge and point ? Do not all believe that in repell- 
ing an enemy he is to be kept away, and if this is to be 
accomplished in no other way, he is to be cut down? 
And must we not oppose engines to those battering-rams 
which cause not theology but faith and truth to be over- 
thrown, friendship to perish, and whatever is sacred and 
in moderation to be held in contempt among mortals ? 
That book of Luther’s, what else is it than an example 
of denying what you said a little while ago? or a fog 
through which you cannot see rightly the mystery of 
Christ? . . . Ishall put forth nothing wild against 
Luther—a thing he himself ought not to have done. 
Since he has done it I shall remember piety and Christian 
decorum.’ ? 


Writing on August 30th he said further of it: 


‘In his book he [Luther] slays, uncautious man that 
he is, divine and human wisdom which it would have 


NAS TIES op), 2Vibtle. 2035 


1529] The Final Stage 289 


been easy to revive among the devout. Since the 
heretics, that is his followers, are with the impious them- 
selves so deaf to all truth that they not only refuse the 
ear but even close the approaches. I was for some time 
in doubt, considering on the one side the vast labour 
that was also vain so far as they were concerned who 
especially ought to receive benefit from it, and on the 
other that charity that ‘endureth all things’ and the 
conscience of those who while they are frank are still se- 
ducible by the trivial word of these men who under an 
appearance of snowy whiteness contrive deeds blacker 
than an Ethiopian. But charity and truth conquered, 
and I replied after the manner you see. Luther has re- 
called us to the positions of [Duns] Scotus and Thomas 
[Aquinas], not indeed that we trust in them or see that 
he has used with skill those poor weapons, but that we 
may deprive him of every kind of offensive equipment. 
For now I see that those followers of Urbanus [Rhegius] 
who declare that they have been illumined and informed 
by the anathema rather than the book of this man are 
really tricksters. Ill be hanged if he [Urbanus Rhegius, 
who had changed from the Zwinglian to the Lutheran 
view of the Eucharist] does not exceed Fabri in folly, 
Eck in impurity, Cochlaus in boldness, and so on. I 
have therefore inveighed against him the more freely. 
The judgment shall be yours and all good men’s. For 
so shall we persevere unmoved in our position; whatever 
machinations of this sort may conjure up, we shall await 
undauntedly and repel and render harmless. ”’ * 


On December oth, he announced that his com- 
mentary on Isaiah was in the press.” 


1Staehelin, Briefe aus der Reformationszeit, p. 21. 
2?VIII., 244. The preface to the Isaiah was signed July 15, 1529. 
19 


290 Huldreich Zwingli [1524- 


Here some matters of a general character must be 
alluded to. The most radical change which Zwingli 
made in the Church service at Zurich was to do away 
with both instrumental and vocal music. This ac- 
tion was the more strange since Zwingli himself was 
a very accomplished musician, being able to play 
upon different instruments and also to sing well; 
yet in the course of the year 1525 he suspended the 
choit-singing and on December g, 1527, had the or- 
ganof the Great Minster broken up’ and insisted that 
similar action should be taken by the other churches 
in the city* and canton. His motive was twofold; 
first, because all this music was inseparably con- 
nected with the Roman Church worship and he 
desired to remove as far as possible the Reformed 
congregations from all association with the past; 
and second, because the words of the music were 
in Latin and therefore unintelligible to the people 
and he desired to have every part of the Reformed 
worship in the vernacular. 

The public worship in Zurich after 1525 consisted 
in prayers,® public confession of sins,* recitation 
of the Lord’s Prayer and the Apostles’ Creed, and 
preaching. The ministers wore their ordinary dress 
in the pulpit, but this dress, characterised by a black 
cloak and white ruff, was worn by others only on 


! Bullinger gives the exact date, i., 418. 

? The churches in Zurich reintroduced music in 1598. 

*Zwingli defended liberty in this regard: ‘‘ Any church will use 
such prayers as it pleases, provided they be framed according to the 
form of the Word of God” (iii., 85, cf. 109, and ii., 2, 233). 

“The prayer and the confession written by Zwingli are given, ii., 
2, 228, 229. 


= 


1529] The Final Stage 291 


gala occasions, and when it passed out of fashion it 
became the distinctive ministerial dress. When the 
sacraments of the Lord’s Supper and baptism were 
administered the entire liturgy was in the vernacular 
and stripped of everything reminding of the pomp 
and splendour of the Old Church. Even the burials 
were without any pomp. The body was carried out 
of the house to the burying-ground, the only words 
spoken were when the mourners were publicly 
thanked by the master of the guild to which the 
head of the house belonged for their expression of 
sympathy, and then the company went into the 
church for silent prayer, not for the dead, but for 
the bereaved. On the following Sunday the name 
of the deceased was announced to the congregation, 
accompanied by a reminder of their own mortality.’ 

The Church services were held on Sundays from 
seven to eight o’clock in the morning and between 
three and four in the afternoon. In the Great 
Minster there was a service for children and servants 
from eleven to twelve o’clock. During the week 
there was also a preaching service in the morning at 
five and at eight, which took the place of the early 
masses.” On Friday, which was the market day, 
Zwingli preached especially for the country people. 
At the end of 1525 certain ministers were set apart 
for visitation of the sick, inasmuch as this was no 
part of the duties of the people’s priest.* Of the 


1 The form used in Zurich is given, li., 2, 227, 228. 

° The attendance falling off, the magistrates passed an order requir- 
ing church-going! (Egli, 4. S., 1780). 

5Egli, A. S., 866. 


292 Huldreich Zwingli [1524- 


holy days were retained Christmas, Good Friday, 
and Easter; also St. Stephen’s, All Saints’, Candle- 
mas, St. John the Baptist’s, Mary Magdalene’s, and 
more strangely the Annunciation and Ascension of 
the Virgin Mary, together with the day of the city 
patron saints, Felix and Regula. On these days, as 
on Sunday, public business and all work were for- 
bidden, except necessary work, as harvesting. At 
the end of the year 1526 Zwingli authorised the issue 
of a calendar for the year 1527, in which the names 
of the church saints were supplanted by biblical 
saints, each with a Scripture reference.’ The assign- 
ment to dates was purely arbitrary. The author of 
this book was an alleged Dr. Johannes Copp, but 
as this man is otherwise utterly unknown, the con- 
jecture lies near that the real author was Zwingli him- 
self. All the gold and silver ornaments and other 
costly treasures of the churches, including the vest- 
ments and the splendidly bound service-books, were 
not only removed from the churches but melted down, 
sold, or destroyed,” and even the grave stones, unless 
the relatives of the deceased took them away, were by 
order of the City Council used for building purposes.’ 

Although Zwingli was doubtless the author of all 
these changes in Church ordinances, yet the nominal 
authors were the city authorities and all these 
changes were made in their name. They were not 


1 Reprinted by Dr. Ernst Geetzinger, Zwei Kalender von Fahre 
1527, Schaffhausen, 1865. 

* Bullinger, i., 383, sg.; Gerold Edlibach, Chronik (ed. Usteri, 
Ziirich, 1847), 275 ; Zwingli, ii., 2, 443 sgq. 

*Egli, 4, S., 865, 


1529] The Final Stage 293 


carried out without more or less opposition, espe- 
cially in the country districts, where the people 
were more inclined to stand by the old order. On 
April 4, 1526, the Council of the city of Zurich 
passed an order relative to the support to be hence- 
forth given to the clergy by setting apart certain 
sources of revenue tothisend. This meant in some 
cases a considerable curtailment of income, especially 
on the part of the canons of the different cathedrals. 
Those priests who remained faithful to the old order 
were not, however, deprived of their stipends, but 
as they died or retired their places were filled, if at 
all, with those of the Reformed Church. 

Zwingli showed his ambition for an educated 
clergy by establishing a theological seminary as 
soon as funds were available, which was in the sum- 
mer of 1525. Acall was given to a teacher of Greek 
and Hebrew, and Zwingli himself took part in the 
work. The text-book was the Bible. Instruction 
began at eight o’clock in the morning. One teacher 
read the Hebrew text and translated it into Latin 
with a brief interpretation. Then Zwingli trans- 
lated the same text from the Greek of the Septuagint 
into Latin. Leo Jud then commented in German 
upon what had been read, and explained in Latin. 
This theological seminary was attended not only by 
regular students but by the clergy of the city, and 
Leo Jud’s lectures by the people generally.  In- 
struction from the Greek New Testament was given 
in the afternoon at three o’clock by Myconius. 
That Zwingli set up for himself a high standard is 
shown by his writings, and he was able to impress 


294 Huldreich Zwingli [1524- 


this standard upon others. He called his institute 
‘ahhe,Prophecyy’ + 

On the 12th of December Zwingli presided over a 
synod at Frauenfeld,’ in the canton of Thurgau, some 
twenty-two miles north-east of Zurich, at which were 
assembled not only the preachers of Thurgau but of 
St. Gall, Appenzell, and the Rhine valley, along with 
representatives of the congregations. In all there 
were some five hundred clergymen. The principal 
business of the synod apparently was to bring the 
clergy into line. Consequently those ministers who 
had been inclined to accept Anabaptism were either 
compelled to confess conversion to the orthodox 
view or else they were deposed on the ground of 
ignorance or deprived of their stipends. Other im- 
portant business of the synod related to the refor- 
mation of the monasteries and the secularisation of 
their property. Zwingli on his way back went 
through Constance, preached there on the roth of 
December, as he did later on at Stein and Diessen- 
hofen, two towns on the Rhine fifteen and twenty 
miles respectively west of Constance. On the 17th of 
May, 1530, another synod was held at Frauenfeld 
in which Zwingli again took a personal part and 
through his friends in Constance he exerted an in- 
fluence eastward upon the territory bordering on 
Thurgau, so that this whole section of the country 
heard the preaching of the Gospel. 

It must be confessed that in the different sections 
of Switzerland into which the Reformation entered 

1 Johannes Kessler, Sadsata (ed. Geetzinger, St. Gall, 1870), i., 


372; Bullinger, i., 290 sg.; Zwingli, iv., 205 ; Egli, A. S., 866. 
° VIII., gor; Kessler, Saddata, ii., 233 sq. 


1529] The Final Stage 295 


the means adopted to secure its triumph were by 
no means always merely appeals to reason and con- 
science. Zwinglihad the idea that whenever the ma- 
jority wished to accept the new teachings they were 
justified in compelling the minority to accept them 
or toleave. This was the course he pursued in regard 
to the Baptists and this was also the course in regard 
to the monasteries and nunneries and to the estab- 
lishment of the revised form of the Lord’s Supper and 
in other ways. So the soul liberty which he claimed 
for himself and for his followers he was not willing 
to grant to others. Wherever he or his followers 
met with opposition there they used force. Par- 
ticularly was this the case in regard to the cloisters. 
The case of the nuns of St. Katherinenthal is one in 
point. Their building was on the Rhine, five miles 
east of Schaffhausen. It is now a hospital for in- 
curables. These nuns had opposed the Reforma- 
tion, but were supposed to have been convinced by 
the arguments of Zwingli. They were brought under 
the preaching of those sent by the Swiss authorities, 
and because they still refused to accept the Refor- 
mation they were driven out of their cloister with 
violence, the pictures and statues of which were 
destroyed by a mob from the neighbouring town of 
Diessenhofen, a mile back on the Rhine, their re- 
ligious dress was torn from their backs and burnt 
before their eyes, and they were themselves roughly 
handled.’ The monks in the Cistercian abbey of 


1See the pitiful story told by the sufferers, with annotations, 
Archiv fir die schweizerische Reformationsgeschichte (Freiburg in 
Br., 1875), iii., LOI-115. 


206 Huldreich Zwingli [1524 


Wettingen on the Limmat, thirteen miles north- 
west of Zurich, were also visited by a mob and the 
pictures and the statuary of their chapel likewise 
destroyed.’ They were compelled to remove them 
with their own hands and in the presence of the 
abbot of Cappel and of a delegation from Zurich and 
Bern to cut off one another’s hair and pull off their 
hoods. Their building, surrounded by extensive 
gardens, was afterwards turned into a_ school- 
house. It isnow aseminary forteachers. Justifica- 
tion of this rough treatment of these monks and 
nuns, or rather the explanation offered, was the fact 
that the opposition to the Reformation came chiefly 
from them, and also it is probable that the people 
in this way revenged themselves for long years of 
oppression and neglect. But this was playing with 
edged tools, and naturally intensified the opposition 
to the Reformation on the part of the Five Forest 
Cantons. 

Zwingli in 1529 stood at the height of his influence. 
His followers, who up to 1526 had been limited to 
the inhabitants of the canton of Zurich, were now 
found in all parts of German Switzerland even to 
some extent in the Five Forest Cantons, and also in 
Strassburg, Hessia, and the Swabian cities —in 
short, through a considerable part of Northern 
Switzerland and Southern Germany. In all these 
parts he was looked upon as the religious leader 
and was praised and trusted as no other man of his 
day in this section of Europe. The burden and re- 
sponsibility for the management of all the churches 
which had accepted his theology naturally fell 


1529] The Final Stage 297 


upon him. The congregations thus established were 
subjected to the control of the local authorities. 
They held their own independent church courts, but 
in the common opposition to the Anabaptists (or 
rather Baptists), to the Catholic Church, and to the 
Lutherans they found a bond of union, and so they 
gradually assumed a uniformity of doctrinal expres- 
sion and of internal Church management. Just as 
in the early time it was the presence of heresy 
which brought the orthodox Christian churches to- 
gether and led to the formation of the Catholic 
Church, so it was the presence of Anabaptism, the 
mass, and Lutheranism which caused the rise of the 
Reformed Church in German Switzerland and South- 
ern Germany. The intercourse between various 
places by means of delegations, which was a feature 
of their national life, was used to promote religious 
as well as political ends, for the civil delegations 
were frequently accompanied by ecclesiastic delega- 
tions and the matters brought up for discussion at 
such meetings were quite as likely to be religious as 
political or commercial. For instance, how to treat 
the Anabaptists, how to treat the Lutherans, 
whether they should apply property of the cloisters 
to educational purposes, and whether they should 
have identical forms of creeds and litany, these 
were matters earnestly presented. Zwinglidoes not 
seem to have been inclined to suppress the indi- 
viduality of the several congregations, for when the 
synod was held at Basel on February 15, 1531, and 
the question was asked whether the allied congrega- 
tions should not have the same litany, the answer was 


298 Huldreich Zwingli [1524-1529] 


given that although such a uniformity was desirable 
it was not necessary and should not be made obli- 
gatory. At the same time the synod held that it 
was very desirable to have regular interchange of 
views and opinions between the churches in the 
Christian Burgher Rights. Zwingli laid particular 
stress upon the organisation of the synod. That of 
Zurich was naturally made the model. These 
synods were democratic bodies and exerted power- 
ful influence upon the congregations which they 
represented in doctrinal and ethical matters. But 
in most of the cities and cantons the Church affairs 
were regulated by the magistrates. Whenever pos- 
sible Zwingli seems to have put himself in evidence 
as much as possible, even to the extent of being 
himself the presiding officer of the synod, and when 
any conflict arose between it and the magistrates 
he generally took the side of the magistrates. 


CHAPTERAXIV 


THE FIRST CAPPEL WAR AND THE COLLOQUY OF 

MARBURG 

1529 

HE year 1529 is for ever memorable because in 
it the religious party in Germany and Switzer- 
land, which had revolted from the Old Church, first 
received their cognomen of “‘ Protestants.’’ This 
excellent descriptive epithet, which all branches of 
the Reformed Church, save one, are proud to bear, 
arose naturally from the action of John, the Elector 
of Saxony; the Margrave of Brandenburg; Philip, 
the Landgrave of Hesse; Philip, Ernest, and Fran- 
cis, the Dukes of Brunswick and Luneburg; Wolf- 
gang, the Prince of Anhalt; and of the imperial 
cities of Strassburg, Nuremberg, Ulm, Constance, 
Lindau, Memmingen, Kempten, Nordlingen, Heil- 
bronn, Reutlingen, Issna, St. Gall, Weissenburg, 
and Windsheim, in protesting at the Diet of Spires, 
on April 19, 1529, against its action in ordering the 
reinstatement of the mass in those portions of the 
empire where it had been overthrown, and the ex- 
tirpation of the alleged Zwinglian and Anabaptist 
““heresies.”’* It is a sad fact that the proposed 
1See summary in Gieseler, Zccles. Hist., Eng. trans., Am. ed., 


iv., 130-132, footnotes. The Zwinglians were called by Lutherans 
and Roman Catholics ‘‘ Sacramentarians.”’ 


299 


300 Huldreich Zwingli [1529 


suppression of Zwingli’s theory as to the meaning 
of the Eucharist was heard of by the Lutherans 
with more or less open satisfaction.’ But the Land- 
grave of Hesse found an ally in Melanchthon in mak- 
ing a protest against this action on the ground that 
there had been no discussion of the matter before 
the Diet, and so it was an outrage to condemn it 
unheard.* Zwingli alludes to this magnanimous 
performance of the Landgrave in his letter in reply 
to the Landgrave’s from Spires on May 13th, in 
which he hails with delight the proposal for a con- 
ference between the Lutherans and Zwinglians and 
declares he would attend whether the Zurich Council 
gave him permission or not.* 

But before the Colloquy could be held the troubles 
between the Five Forest Cantons (Uri, Schwyz, 
Unterwalden, Luzern, and Zug), whose inhabitants 
were honest and ardent adherents of the Old Church, 
and the Reformed cantons led to open war. The 
former had, in 1528, leagued themselves together to 
oppose the Zwinglians, and the next year allied 
themselves with Ferdinand of Austria. 

1See judgment of Luther and Melanchthon in Walch’s edition of 
Luther’s Works (xvi., 364). 

® See Melanchthon’s letter to Camerarius on May 17th in Corpus 
Reformatorum, i., 1067 sq. 

? Philip’s letter was in German and dated by Schuler and Schult- 
hess (vili., 288), ‘‘ auf 9. Mai Speier am Donstag nach Jubilate 1529.” | 
But Jubilate is the third Sunday after Easter, which that year came 
on March 28th, consequently the third Sunday would be on April 
18th and Thursday thereafter would be April 22d, not May oth. 
Besides, Zwingli’s reply is dated May 7th (viii., 663). One of 
Zwingli’s correspondents, John Haner, claimed the credit of suggest- 
ing originally the conference. 


1529] The First Cappel War 301 


Matters were thus brought to a crisis, for it was 
the avowed intention of the Five Cantons and their 
allies to root out the Zwinglian teaching and teach- 
ers. Zwingli, therefore, favoured armed opposition 
by the cities of the cantons which had accepted his 
teaching before their enemies were too much en- 
trenched. To Bern, hesitating about engaging in 
the fraternal strife, he wrote sometime in June, 
1529, just before starting for Cappel: 


“* Be firm and do not fear war. For that peace which 
some are so urgently pressing upon us Is not peace but 
war. And the war for which I am so insistent is peace, 
not war; for I do not thirst for the blood of anyone, nor 
will I drink it even in case of tumult. This is the end 
I have in view—the enervation of the oligarchy. Unless 
this takes place neither the truth of the Gospel nor its 
ministers will be safe among us. I have in mind nothing 
cruel, but what I do is friendly and paternal. I desire 
to save some who are perishing through ignorance. I 
am labouring to preserve liberty. Fear nothing; for we 
shall so manage all things with the goodness and the 
alliance of God that you shall not be ashamed nor dis- 
pleased because of us.’’ * 


He also disclosed to friends on the very morning 
the start was made his plan of campaign.’ 

War was indeed inevitable. The condemnation 
of a Zwinglian and a Zuricher to death for his faith’s 
sake in Schwyz* only hastened matters. On June 

* This is probably similar to that preserved and printed, ii., 3, 


37-39. 
3 Bullinger, ii., 148. 
at 


302 Huldreich Zwingli [1529 


8, 1529, Zurich declared war on the Five Cantons ' 
and joined by her allies, especially by Bern, marched 
thirty thousand strong to Cappel, a border town ten 
miles directly south of Zurich. Zwingli accom- 
panied the troops, nominally as chaplain, as his 
office obligated him to do. He went on horseback, 
carrying ‘‘ on his shoulder a beautiful halberd.’’ It 
was his plan to strike a quick and crushing blow 
upon the disorganised Five Cantons, and then ex- 
tort from them the abrogation of the Austrian alli- 
ance, the renunciation of foreign pensions, and full 
liberty to preach the Reformed doctrines within their 
borders. It was to see that these things were in- 
sisted on that he accompanied the host. But as 
they were directly opposite to the Five Cantons’ 
ideas and could only be obtained by bloodshed, he 
was held by them to be their deadliest foe; and the 
Zurich authorities, knowing that he was considered 
by them as the cause of the whole trouble, had en- 
deavoured to keep him in Zurich and even appointed 
another to be chaplain. 

But the first Cappel war was over as soon as it 
was begun. On June roth the allies received a 
moving appeal from the chief magistrate of Glarus 
to await a proposition from the Five Cantons. 
Zwingli perceived the folly of treating with them 


1 Her reasons were apparently drawn up by Zwingli and were cir- 
culated in printed form. The document is reprinted by Bullinger 
(ii., 164-167). Seven reasons were given, but they were reducible to 
two, the alliance the cantons had made with Austria for the express 
purpose of destroying the Reformed Church, and the execution of 
Jacob Keyser (also called Schlosser) by the canton of Schwyz for his 
faith’s sake, 


1529] The First Cappel War 303 


and patching up a peace which secured none of the 
objects of the threatened war. He said to the 
bearer of the appeal: ‘‘ You will have to give an 
account to God for this. While the enemy is weak 
and without arms, he speaks fair: you believe him 
and make peace. But when he is fully armed, he 
will not spare us, and then no peace will he make 
withus.’’ The man replied: ‘ I trust in God that all 
will turn out well. Let us act always for the best.”’ ’ 

On June 11th, Zwingli wrote from the field to 
the Small and Great Councils of Zurich a long let- 
ter,” in which he gave his idea of the necessary 
conditions for a lasting peace: I. The Forest Cantons 
must allow the Word of God to be freely preached 
among them. II. Pensions were to be for ever fore- 
sworn. III. Distribution of such pensions was to be 
punished corporally and by fine. IV. The Forest 
Cantons were to pay indemnity to Zurich and Bern. 

In the camp the chief talk was apparently against 
the pensioners, who were considered principal fo- 
menters of trouble, as they had done so much to 
degenerate their fellow countrymen. Their sup- 
pression was also dear to Zwingli, as much so, per- 
haps, as religious liberty. Peace could the easier 
be arranged as there was on neither side, certainly 
not among the common soldiers, any desire to fight, 
—in fact, the outposts fraternised,* and besides 

1 Bullinger, ii., 170. 

*VIII., 296 sag. 

3 Cf. the famous story of the Forest Cantoners offering milk to the 
Zurichers’ bread and both eating them together (Bullinger, ii., 182, 


183). Similar events occurred during the Civil War in the United 
States, and probably in many other wars. 


304 Huldreich Zwingli [1529 


hunger played an urgent part in inducing the 
Catholics to come to terms.’ 

While the negotiations were going on the camp 
of the Reformed was under strict discipline and 
daily religious services were held. Zwingli discov- 
ered that the pensioners were secretly working 
against him and naturally they had plenty of allies. 
Even Bern was indifferent in the matter.” He then 
composed this hymn °*: 


ig II. 
Lord, guide the car [of War] Thyself! God, elevate Thy Name 
Otherwise crooked To the punishment 
All our course becomes. Of the wicked goats! 
That would be joy Thy sheep 
To our enemies, Again awake, 
Who Thee Who Thee 
Despise so wickedly. Love so ardently ! 

III. 


Help, so that all bitterness 
May be far removed, 

And old fidelity 

May come back 

And grow anew ; 

That we 

Ever may sing Thy praises! 


On June 24, 1530, the treaty was signed, and 
Zwingli on that day expressed himself as satisfied 


1VIII., 305. ‘‘ Our enemies are suffering from hunger. 
They are tired of the war since they have nothing to eat.” 

» See his letter to Blaurer, June 21, 1529 (viii., 308); cf. that to 
Bern, in which he alludes to camp disputes on July 24-(vili., 325). 

3TI., 2, 275, 276, and the music, 527. Bullinger gives it (ii., 182) 
and states that it was immediately and widely popular. It was sung 
at the Swiss celebrations of the four hundredth anniversary of 


1529] The First Cappel War 305 


and thankful.’ The treaty contained eighteen Arti- 
cles, of which these were the chief: 1. Neither side 
was to persecute anyone for his faith’s sake. The 
majority in each canton was to decide whether the 
Old Faith was to be retained or not. 2. Thealliance 
with Austria was to be dissolved and the papers 
pertaining: to it. “““pierced and~slit.’’” 3. The’ six 
cities of Zurich, Bern, Basel, St. Gall, Miilhausen, 
and Biel, all Reformed, renounced definitely for 
themselves and their dependencies all pensions and 
foreign subsidies of every description, but merely 
recommended a similar course to the Five Forest 
Cantons. 7. Schwyz was to support the children 
of Jacob Keyser (or Schlosser), whom she had 
burned for his faith’s sake. 10. Abusive speech on 
both sides was to cease. 13. The Forest Cantons 
were to reimburse Zurich and Bern for the cost of 
the war inside of fourteen days from the date of the 
treaty; on penalty for failure to do so the six cities 
would refuse to sell them food.* Zwingli thus ex- 
pressed himself on June 2oth, in writing to a friend 
at Ulm: 


‘We have brought home a peace-treaty which is I 


Zwingli’s birth in 1884, and at the unveiling of the Zwingli statue in 
Zurich, Monday, August 24, 1885. The poetical versions given in 
the English translations of Hottinger by T. C. Porter (p. 301), Chris- 
toffel by J. Cochrane (p. 430), Merle d’Aubigne by H. White (iv., 
p. 488), the last reprinted by Schaff (Hist. Chr. Church, vil., p. 173), 
with the alteration of one line, are so exceedingly free as to misrepre- 
sent the original in thought and metre. 

1 See viil., 309. 

2 The text of the treaty is given in Bullinger, ii., 185-191. The 


war costs were reckoned as ‘‘ 2500 Sonnenkronen” (ii., 3, 43). 
20 


306 Huldreich Zwingli [1529 


trust most honourable for us, although we have not shed 
a drop of blood. Our opponents on the other hand 
have brought home a very wet pelt [7. ¢., a great damper 
has been put upon them]. Because in the first place the 
Articles of alliance with Ferdinand were by the Ammann 
of Glarus about 11 A.M. on June 2gth before our own 
eyes, In our camp, cut to pieces with a hanger and en- 
tirely destroyed. That I saw with my own eyes. 

In our whole campaign there was no dissension at ail 
and no one wounded on either side. Among the op- 
ponents was all fear and dissension, that God had pro- 
vided, also hunger.’’ ’ 


The treaty was highly approved by the Reformed 
in the six cities, but considered humiliating by the 
Forest Cantons. Zwingli was particularly anxious 
to secure the free preaching of the Gospel in the 
Forest Cantons, and claimed that the treaty secured 
it, but the Forest Cantons denied this. The dele- 
gation Zurich sent to urge the matter reported that 
not the leaders only but the people generally were 
more determined than ever to keep out the evan- 
gelical preachers. So nothing could be accom- 
plished, and it was evident that in one chief Article 
the treaty failed; indeed, that the Forest Cantons 
were only biding their time to make another appeal 
to the sword.’ 

Zwingli took advantage of the lull in Swiss affairs 
to resume the negotiations for a colloquy between 


'VIII., 311, from the German, which is plainly the original. 
The Latin translation appears on opposite page. 

* On August roth, when he wrote to the Landgrave, he considered 
war a possibility (viii., 663). 


1529) The Colloquy of Marburg 307 


himself and followers and Luther and his followers, 
as urged by Philip, Landgrave of Hesse.’ On 
“Ehursday after SS. Petervand: Paul's day ””\(¢. 4.; 
July Ist), 1529, the latter sent from Friedewald, 
thirty miles southeast of Cassel, a very cordial letter 
to Zwingli informing him that he had made arrange- 
ments already for the conference and had received 
the promise of Luther and Melanchthon to attend.’ 
The place would be Marburg, in his domains, and 
the time set for their arrival was St. Michael’s Day, 
September 29th (which that year fell on Wednes- 
day), and the conference would begin the next day. 
He also advised that he pick up C&colampadius in 
Basel on the way, as he had also been invited, and 
that they come to Marburg via Strassburg and 
through the Duchy of Zweibrticken, as friendly ter- 
ritories, to Katzenellenbogen, twenty miles south- 
east of Coblenz and in Hessia. Thence they would 
have a military escort to Marburg. The other 
route open to them was via Frankfort on the Rhine, 
but this was more perilous. Finally, he apologised 
for putting the date of the conference so late, on 
the ground that he had heard a war had broken out.’* 


1 The town records of Zurich show that on July 19, 1529, Zwingli 
had had a man put in prison for accusing him of stealing twenty 
gulden and a pair of spurs. On July 22d he accepted his apology 
that the words were spoken while the offender was drunk, and the 
man was released on a fine of two marks silver and costs (Strick- 
ler, Actensammlung, ii,, pp. 264, 265). 

? Carlstadt was not inyited, as he complained to Cicolampadius, 
vill., 394. 

SVIII., 312. The war Philip alludes to is known as the first 
Cappel war already described. 


308 Huldreich Zwingli [1529 


On July 12th, CEcolampadius, ignorant that he 
had already consented, asked Zwingli to join him 
in the Marburg conference.’ 

On July 14, 1529, Zwingli wrote again to Philip 
of Hesse in reply to his letter to the Zurich Council 
and accompanied it with the Council’s letters to 
Philip and himself. He stated that the Council of 
Zurich preferred Strassburg as the place of meeting, 
because it was only twenty-one miles from Zurich, 
and reached without going through hostile territory. 
At the same time if the place could not be changed 
he was ready to go to Marburg and CEcolampadius 
would go likewise.’ 

To this the Prince replied on ‘‘ Tuesday after St. 
James’s Day” (2. ¢., July 27th), to the effect that 
the place had been carefully considered and was the 
most convenient for all the parties and could not be 
changed; that on the journey thither the Swiss 
theologians would have no personal danger except 
when going over the fourteen miles between Basel 
and Strassburg, and even this short stretch was not 
very unsafe.“ On July 30th C&colampadius ex- 
pressed to Zwingli his own apprehensions for their 
safety and his doubts as to the outcome of the Col- 
loquy.* On August Ist, he wrote that on Zwingli’s 
advice he had tried to get the Strassburgers to inter- 
cede to have the place changed from Marburg, but 
nothing had been accomplished.* It is evident from 
this letter that Zwingli’s physical courage was not 


1VIII., 319, 320. 
2VIle 320, 2 Wheessa. 
SAV DRI 3205 SN TTE 333: 


1329] Lhe Colloquy of Marburg . 309 


great. He had failed the Reformed cause at Baden. 
He was likely to do so at Marburg. C£colampa- 
dius cheers him up by the promised presence of 
Christ on the journey. Capito in Strassburg lays 
before him the ridicule Luther would pour upon 
him if he failed to come, the great desirability on 
every account of his coming, the comparative safety 
of the journey, and the elaborate arrangements 
made for it going and coming.’. Butzer, also in 
Strassburg, talks in similar strain.” On August Io, 
1529, Zwingli gave the definite promise to come to 
the conference at Marburg, unless war should break 
out again, even though permission to do so might 
be refused by the Council.’ 

The Landgrave wrote him in reply on the ‘* Sab- 
bath after the Assumption of Mary” (2. ¢., Satur- 
day, August 21st), that he urgently called him, as 
he had good hopes that if he came the controversy 
as to the Eucharist would be settled.“ Down to 
August 18th, CEcolampadius did not know exactly 
when they were to set forth’; but when he wrote 
again on September Ist, he knew and had arranged 
that Zwingli’s arrival in Basel should be kept a se- 
cret. When he came it would be decided whether 
they should go thence to Strassburg by boat on the 
Rhine or on horseback. ° : 

Zwingli was so sure of a refusal from the Council 





1 See his letter of August 4th (viii., 336). See also Sturm’s letter 
(viii., 337). 

2 VilTI 340) 

8 VIII., 663, 664. 5 VIII., 352. 

4VIII., 351. SVITT, 354: 


310 Huldreich Zwingli [1529 


to his petition to be allowed to go that he never ap- 
plied, but quietly left Zurich about 10 P.M. on Fri- 
day, September 3d, put up at the hotel “‘To the Ox,” 
in the suburb called Sihl, just before the Rennweg 
gate, the north-west gate of the city, and there 
passed the night.’ He did not even tell his wife that 
he was going farther than Basel. Before daybreak 
the next morning he wrote a letter to the Great and 
Small Councils of Zurich, explaining and apologis- 
ing for his leaving the city without permission, by 
the importance of the coming Colloquy and the ur- 
gency of the Prince of Hesse. He informed the 
Councils that he had been refused permission by 
the Small Council, and anticipated the same result 
if he addressed them.” The distance to Marburg 
was sixty German miles (or two hundred and forty 
English miles). Basel would not only send CEco- 
lampadius, but a delegate from among the Council- 
lors. “If Zurich follows this example let the person 
sent be Ulrich Funk, because he is young enough 
to stand the long, arduous journey and besides can 
understand Latin, which will be the probable lan- 
guage of the Colloquy, for I very much fear that 
they [the Prince and the Lutherans] will not under- 


stand our language. I have taken Rudolf Collin 
with me.” * 


1 Bernhard Weis in Fuessli, Beytraege, iv., 117 sgg. It was there 
that Samson stopped (p. 125 of this volume). 

» His secret departure gave rise to the idea that the devil had 
carried him off! (Bullinger, ii., 224). 

3 VIII., 355. The letter was doubtless written in German. It is 
dated ‘‘Geben Samitag frith von Tag I. Herbstmonat zu Ziirich, 
1529 ” (z. ¢., Saturday morning before the first day of September at 


1529) Lhe Colloquy of Marburg 311 


On Sunday, September 5th, at g P.M., he wrote to 
the Zurich Council that he had arrived in Basel that 
day *; would go by boat to Strassburg the next day, 
but would not leave there tillthe 18th. ‘‘ Have Mas- 
ter Stoll say to my wife whatever ought to be said to 
a woman, for when I left I told her only that I was 


Zurich, 1529). Now since the first day of September that year was 
Wednesday, it follows that the Saturday before was August 28th. 
Yet Christoffel (p. 302, Eng. trans., p. 339), Mérikofer (ii., p. 229), 
and Staehelin (ii., p. 392) all say the start was made September rst. 
The explanation is that they either have not freshly investigated the 
matter, but taken the statements of their predecessors, or else have 
followed the ambiguous Latin translation which reads: ‘‘ Dedi 
Sabbati die mane ante lucem 1 Septembus Turici a. 1529,” which 
may mean ‘‘ Given on Saturday morning before daybreak first Sep- 
tember at Zurich in the year 1529,” but as Saturday was August 
28th, it here means, ‘‘Given on the Saturday morning before 
the 1st of September,” etc. But Bullinger says (ii., 224) that the 
start was made on September 3d, which would be Friday, so the 
date of the letter was Saturday, September 4th, which agrees pre- 
cisely with the statement in Zwingli’s letter from Basel (vili., 362) 
that he arrived there Sunday, September 5th. So I believe the former 
letter was wrongly dated or deciphered, ‘‘ post” or ‘‘ nach” being 
used for ‘‘ante” or ‘‘vor.” Strickler dates the letter correctly, 
September 4th (ii., 4. S., 790), as does August Baur (ii., 623). The 
allusion to the probable inability of the Lutherans to understand the 
patois of Zwingli is interesting, and is particularly appreciated by 
those who have tried to converse with modern Zurich peasants, 
But the written Zurich dialect was just as bad, for Zwingli wrote to 
the Landgrave on May 7, 1529, ‘‘that I address you in Latin I do 
it for this reason only because I fear that our Swiss tongue is strange 
to you” (viii., 663). So, also, to the same on July 14th he wrote: 
‘“T fear that if we meet I shall not be understood in my tongue. So 
I do not know whether it would not be better if we used Latin” 
(viii., 324). 

1 The distance between Zurich and Basel is only fifty-six miles 
by rail, and is now made inside of three hours; but was then 
made on horseback, and might well take nearly two days. 


“c 


ie Huldreich Zwingli [1529 


going to Basel on business. . . . Do not suspect 
that I have left Zurich to seek another settlement.” ’ 
On the next day at the same hour he wrote to the 
Council from Strassburg, telling of his safe arrival 
in thirteen hours in a ship provided by the Baselers, 
and would remain eleven days. ‘‘ I wish you would 
please tell my dear wife that I have arrived at Strass- 
burg.’’? While there he preached. On September 
17th he and his companion Ulrich Funk wrote to 
the Council that they should start the next day, 
which was Saturday, under the protection of the 
escort.” Next they are heard from on September 
22d, at Meisenheim, which is eighty miles due north 
from Strassburg. They say: 


“ After Master Huldreich had written in our name how 
and when we set forth from Strassburg, the authorities of 
Strassburg sent us with an escort of soldiers to their 
castle called Kochersberg, thence to the castle of Herr- 
stein [eighty-five miles north of Strassburg and five miles 
north-west of Meisenheim], and treated us in so honour- 
able and friendly a fashion that we were at no expense 
for entertainment. They also sent the distinguished 
Jacob Sturm with two preachers and an escort of five 
soldiers with us to the Landgrave, and when we had 
come to the castle of Herrstein some knights of Duke 
Ludwig of Zweibriicken met us and conducted us in 
faithful and friendly ways through by-paths and woods, 
over mountains and through valleys, safely and secretly 
to Zweibriicken and thence to the castles Lichtenberg 
and Meisenheim.* There we were received in a manner 
1 VIIL., 361. 2 VIII., 362. 3 VIII., 366. 


4 The distance from Herrstein is only five miles in a straight course 
south-east, 


‘a11SVO OYNEYVN 








1329) Lhe Colloquy of Marburg 313 


no less friendly and were at no expense for entertain- 
ment, and found at our disposal all and more than all 
that had been promised us. Now with the help of God 
we expect to ride to-day [Wednesday, September 22d] 
from Meisenheim to St. Goar,’ or the castle Rheinfels 
which is there, between which points forty cavalry of the 
Landgrave of Hesse will receive us, and thence over the 
Rhine to Marburg,’ where what we have come for will 
be transacted.” * 


Zwingli had left Zurich on September 4th, in com- 
pany with the Greek professor Rudolf Collin, as has 
been said; when they reached Marburg on Septem- 
ber 27th, he was accompanied by Cécolampadius of 
Basel, Butzer and Hedio of Strassburg, and by rep- 
resentatives of Zurich, Basel, and Strassburg. The 
Landgrave entertained them and Luther and his 
company in his castle. It was the first time the lead- 
ers of the Lutherans and the Reformed had met one 
another and much was expected. Zwingli wished 
Latin to be used exclusively and the debate to be 
open; but Luther carried his contention for German, 
no shorthand reports of the speeches,* and a limited 

1 Thirty miles almost due north on the Rhine. 

? Sixty-five miles north-east. 

°VIII., 368. 

“Consequently we have at best only reports written from notes 
made after the debate. Brenz also declares ‘‘ there was no shorthand 
clerk present to take down the matter and none of the hearers was 
given opportunity to note down anything” (iv., 201). These reports 
are collected in iv., 173-204; and for the Swiss side see also Bullin- 
ger’s account (ii., 223-239); reprinted in part in Zwingli’s Works 
(ii., 3, 45-56), and additional matter (pp. 57, 58). The account 
by Collin (iv., 173-184), Zwingli’s travelling companion, who was 
present at all the open sessions, is here followed, 


314 Huldreich Zwingli [1529 


audience—the Prince of Hesse, his counsellors, 
several nobles and magnates, in all not more than 
sixty and perhaps not that many at any one session. 
Zwingli read from the Greek Testament; Luther 
used his own German translation. Once when 
Zwingli read a passage in Greek, Luther requested 
that the readings be from the Latin or German.’ 
The parties to the Colloquy were, on the Zwinglian 
side, Huldreich Zwingli from Zurich, Johann Céco- 
lampadius from Basel, Martin Butzer and Caspar 
Hedio from Strassburg; on the other side Martin 
Luther, Philip Melanchthon, Justus Jonas, and Cas- 
par Cruciger, all from Wittenberg; Friedrich Mycon- 
ius from Gotha, Johann Brenz from Hall; Andreas 
Osiander from Nuremberg, and Stephen Agricola 
from Augsburg. With a view to shortening the de- 
bate the Landgrave had arranged that Zwingli and 
Melanchthon, Cécolampadius and Luther should 
meet on Thursday, September 30th, the day preced- 
ing that set for the Colloquy, each pair apart in pri- 
vate. The result was much mutual enlightenment as 
to their views, for it appeared that the Lutherans had 
really erroneous ideas as to the Zwingli position on 
minor points. In these private debates the Zwingli- 
ans were apparently on the defensive, as the Luther- 
ans held them in more or less disguised contempt. 
But in these private talks probably, and certainly in 
the public debate, there was outward courtesy.’ 
When on the next day, Friday, October Ist, the pub- 
lic debate began, it was found that Luther had writ- 
ten before him upon the table in chalk the words: 


DWael 70: * So Brenz (iv., 201), 


1520] The Colloquy of Marburg Bis 


“This is My Body,’’ in order not to allow himself, 
says Collin, to be drawn in the discussion with 
Zwingli and Cecolampadius away from these words. 
Luther opened the debate by stating that the debate 
should cover all points of Christian doctrine, as 
Zwingli had made errors on other points than that 
of the Eucharist, upon which latter subject he 
bluntly declared that he was sure he was right and 
always would be opposed to the Zwinglian view 
that the words he had written, ‘‘ This is My Body,” 
were to be taken other than literally. To which 
Zwingli replied that the conference should be re- 
stricted to the single subject to discuss which it was 
called, and so the matter was arranged. Neither 
side had the smallest intention to yield to the other 
upon a single point, and both sides expressed the 
greatest contempt for the opposite side’s arguments. 
The debate at first took the form of a colloquy be- 
tween Luther and Cécolampadius. Then Zwingli 
joined in and accused Luther of judging the case 
before he heard it in that he declared that he was 
not going to withdraw from his opinion. This 
sounded well, but Zwingli was open to precisely the 
same charge. Both Luther and Zwingli were in- 
vulnerable to all arguments. After Zwingli and 
Luther had debated for a while, G®colampadius 
spoke again, and Luther rejoined. So the debate 
went on for two days, mercifully interrupted by 
meals and sleep.’ 

The principal points were the construction to be 


1TV., 179. ‘‘ Dinner intervened and cut short the struggle,” says 
Collin. 


316 Huldreich Zwingli [1529 


put upon Christ’s words used at the table on the 
night in which He was betrayed, ‘‘ This is My 
Body ”’; and the relevancy of John vi. to the doc- 
trine of.the Lord’s Supper, the patristic teaching on 
the subject, and the nature of the Body which could 
be found in the sacrament. 

At the conclusion of the public debate the Swiss 
asked that 


“Luther would take them for brethren. This Dr. Mar- 
tin would not at all agree to. He even addressed them 
very seriously, saying that he was exceedingly surprised 
that they should regard him as a brother if they seriously 
believed their own doctrine true. But that [they con- 
sidered him a brother] was an indication that they them- 
selves did not think that there was much involved in the 
matter.” 


This speech, reported by the faithful pen of 
Melanchthon,’ shows how much stress Luther laid 
upon his interpretation of the meaning of the Lord’s 
Supper. Luther thus put the matter in his letter 
to Jacobus, the provost at Bremen: 


“As to the statement the Sacramentarians’ are casting 
abroad to the effect that I was beaten at Marburg, they 
are acting after their own kind. For they are not only 
liars but the very incarnation of lying, deceit, and hypo- 
crisy, as Carlstadt and Zwingli show by their very deeds 
and words. But you see that in the Articles formulated 
at Marburg they took back the pestiferous teaching that 
they had been promulgating in their published books in 


1IV., 189. * The opprobrious epithet for the Zwinglians. 


1529] The Colloquy of Marburg 317 


regard to baptism, the use of the sacraments, the external 
word, and the rest. We took back nothing. d 
They professed with many words that they wished to 
agree with us so far as to say that the body of Christ is 
truly present in the Supper, but spiritually, with the sole 
view that we deign to call them brethren, and so feign 
harmony. This Zwingli begged with tears in his eyes 
before the Landgrave and all of them, saying, ‘There 
are no people on earth with whom I would rather be in 
harmony than with the Wittenbergers.’ They strove 
with the utmost eagerness and vigour to seem in har- 
mony with us, and could never endure the expression I 
used, ‘You have a different spirit from ours.’ They 
burst into flame every time they heard it.’’? 


CEcolampadius in his account of the Colloquy is 
very much milder than Luther and milder than 
Zwingli. He believed that ‘“‘ there was no victory 
on either side since there was no fighting or con- 
tending.’’* Brenz is very explicit in regard to the 
split which was so plainly manifested between 
the speakers, and which surprised and grieved the 
Landgrave. He says: 


“Afterwards, when the meeting had been disbanded, 
the Prince tried every possible way to secure agreement 
between us, speaking to each one of us by himself with- 
out witnesses, and begging, warning, exhorting, demand- 
ing that we have regard to the Republic of Christ and 
put strife away. [Failing to secure the absolute submis- 
sion of the Zwinglians] we decided with one voice that 
they were outside the Communion of the Christian 
Church, and could not be recognised by us as brethren 


BS Wher, HOE AL VeaelOn 


318 Huldreich Zwingli [1529 


and members of the Church. This our opponents 
thought very hard indeed. . . . But when the Prince 
also thought it hard we modified our decision so far as 
to be willing to recognise our opponents of the Zwingli 
and (Ecolampadius following as friends, but not as 
brethren and members of the Church of Christ.’’’ 


Justus Jonas, another Lutheran who was present, 
characterised the Zwinglian disputants thus: 


“ Zwingli has something countrified about him, and at 
the same time arrogant ; CEcolampadius has a wonderful 
kindness of disposition and tolerance; Hedio is as 
courteous as he is liberal-minded ; Butzer has the crafti- 
ness of the fox, a distorted imitation of acuteness and 
wisdom. They are all learned beyond a doubt, and the 
Papalists are no opponents in comparison with them, 
but Zwingli seems to have gone into letters under the 
wrath of the Muses and the power of Minerva.”’? 


But it was not entirely in vain that the disputants 
met. They had been in such mutual ignorance of 
each other’s real views upon other topics than the 
Eucharist, and of the arguments by which they sus- 
tained them, that it wasmuch to make them mutually 
acquainted on these points. They discovered with 
surprise and perhaps with gratitude that they agreed 
upon nearly everything. So, greatly to the Land- 
grave’s satisfaction, they drew up Articles upon 
their points of agreement and all signed them on 
October 3d.°. They also came a little closer to- 


EV 203" 2TV., 204. 
3 See the Articles with Zwingli’s notes (iv., 181-184), 


1329) Lhe Colloquy of Marburg = 319 


gether. CEcolampadius and Melanchthon, both 
mild-mannered men, probably could be cordial to 
one another, but between Luther and Zwingli there 
could be no cordiality. 

How much longer they might have stayed at Mar- 
burg is uncertain, but the outbreak of the ‘English 
Sweat,’’ a form of pestilence,— named on the prin- 
ciple that a foreigner is an enemy and all bad things 
are to be attributed to him; in England the same 
sickness would probably be called French,— broke 
out in Marburg and hastened their departure.’ So 
on Tuesday, October 5th, they left. The Zwingli 
party went to Strassburg directly under the escort 
of Count Wilhelm von Ftirstenburg and arrived 
there safely on October 15th; and on Tuesday, 
October 19th, Zwingli was once more in Zurich. 

The next day he wrote this letter to Vadianus,’ 
in which he claims the victory, but writes in much 
milder language than Luther: 


“Grace and peace from the Lord. I will now write 
briefly what you desire to know. After we had been 
brought under the safest conduct to Marburg, and Luther 
with his party had come, the Prince Landgrave deter- 
mined that Ccolampadius and Luther, Melanchthon 
and Zwingli, should meet two by two in private to see 
whether they could not find some ground of agreement 
upon which they could found peace. Hereupon Luther 


1 Writing to Zwingli on February I, 1530, the Landgrave renews 
his acceptance of the Zwinglian position throughout (¢f. viii., 405). 
So there was at least one convert to the Zwinglian side made or con- 
firmed by the Colloquy. 

SVL U3 00370: 


320 Huldreich Zwingli [1529 


received CXcolampadius in such a way that the latter 
came to me complaining secretly that he had met another 
Eck—but this is to be told to the trusty alone. 

“But as for Melanchthon he was so slippery and so 
transformed himself after the manner of Proteus that he 
compelled me to seize a pen, to arm my hand and dry it 
as with salt and so hold him more firmly as he glided 
around in all sorts of escapes. and subterfuges. From 
this I send you a few examples out of the hundreds of 
thousands of things said, yet under the condition that 
you are not to communicate them to any except the 
trusty, z. ¢., those who will not make a text for trouble 
out of them, for Philip [Melanchthon] himself has a copy 
of them. It was written by me while he was looking on 
and reading all, and sometimes dictating his own words. 
But I do not wish to give rise to a new quarrel. Philip 
and I were engaged in conversation for six hours,’ 
Luther and GEcolampadius for three. On the next day, 
in the presence of the Landgrave and twenty-four wit- 
nesses, Luther and Melanchthon and Cécolampadius and 
Zwingli went into the arena and fought there and in 
three other sessions. For there were four in all in which 
we contended successfully. For we presented to Luther 
as needing explanation the fact that he had propounded 
those thrice foolish statements: that Christ suffered in 


1 The topics were the Trinity, Original Sin, the relation of the 
Holy Spirit to the written Word of God, and the Eucharist. It 
turned out that Melanchthon and the Lutherans generally held the 
Zwinglians in so great contempt that they had not taken the trouble 
to study their books and find out what they believed; while the 
Zwinglians were so jealous of the Lutherans that they could not listen 
to them. Consequently to their common shame the two parties were 
ignorant of one another and credulous of every story to their oppo- 
nents’ discredit. 


1529) The Colloquy of Marburg —321 


Wis divine nature ; that the Body of Christ is everywhere ; 
and that the flesh could not profit of itself otherwise than 
as he now asserted. But the fine fellow made no reply, 
except that in the matter of the flesh not profiting he 
said: ‘You know, Zwingli, that as time progressed and 
their judgment grew, all the Fathers treated the passages 
of Scripture in ways different from the earlier exposi- 
tions.” Then he said: ‘The Body of Christ is eaten cor- 
poreally in our body, but in the meantime I will reserve 
this to myself whether the Body is eaten by the soul.’ 
And yet a little before he had said: ‘ The Body of Christ 
is eaten with the mouth corporeally, the soul does not 
eat Him corporeally.’ He also said: ‘The Body of 
Christ is produced by these words, “ This is My Body,” 
no matter how wicked the man who pronounces these 
words.’ He conceded that the Body of Christ is finite. 
He admitted that the Eucharist can be called the sign of 
the Body of Christ. These and other innumerable vacil- 
lating, absurd, and foolish utterances of his, which he 
babbled forth like pebbles on a beach, we so argued on 
that now the Prince himself is on our side, although for 
the sake of certain princes he pretended not to be. Al- 
most all the Court of Hesse have deserted Luther. He 
himself grants that our books could be read without 
harm. Hereafter he will suffer the parties who agree 
with us to retain their positions, Prince John of Saxony 
was not present, but the Prince of Wittenberg was. 
“We parted with the understanding which you will see 
in print. Truth was so clearly superior that, if ever any 
one was overcome, Luther, the impudent and obstinate,’ 
1 Impudens et contumax. (Ecolampadius, on February 12, 1530, 
urged Zwingli to write a book to match Luther’s on the Marburg 


Colloquy, in which he claimed the victory (viii., 410). Zwingli 
complains of Luther’s boast (viii., 669). 
21 


322 Huldreich Zwingli [1529 


was beaten, and before a wise and just judge, although 
meantime he was unconquered. We have effected this 
good, that after we shall agree in the other dogmas of 
the Christian religion, the Pope’s party cannot entertain 
the hope that Luther will be theirs. While I write this 
I am wearied with my journey’; when you come to us 
you shall have a full report. For I think we have also 
gained something else ; things that will prove a safeguard 
for religion and against the monarchy of Cesar. These 
also shall be set forth to you when the time shall demand 
it. Meanwhile, farewell, and greet all friends. 
“ Yours, 


“HULDREICH ZWINGLI. 
‘* ZURICH, October 20, 1529.” 


On November 2d, Zwingli wrote a letter of thanks 
to the Landgrave, beginning it thus: 


“T give you my hearty thanks for your kindly offer if 
I wish to better my condition, and I thank you also for 
the zeal you have shown in providing for our return 
home. But the time was much too short for Gécolam- 
padius and all of us, not merely in the matter of the 
conference, but also on other accounts. We were hin- 
dered by the power of certain preachers for instance.” ” 


This shows that the Landgrave tried to take 
Zwingli away from Zurich and also, as the preceding 
letter does, that other business was discussed be- 
tween them than purely religious affairs.* 


1 He had arrived in Zurich the day before. 
72ND JOOAR 
3 This point will be brought out more fully in the next chapter. 


“LVS SLNVLNdSIG FHL HOIHM GNNOYV GOOLS 318VL FHL 3YSHM SHYVW YOOTS SHI NI (xX) SSOHD SHL 
“73H SVM ANDOTION SHL HOIHM NI LNAWLYVdVY SHL “YOIMSLNI ‘S1LSvO OUNEYVA 








CHAPTER XV 


ZWINGLI’S POLITICAL ACTIVITY IN HIS CLOSING 
YEARS 


1529-1531 


WINGLI’S correspondence during 1529, 1530, 
and 1531 shows how much absorbed he was 

in the schemes for advancing evangelical religion by 
means of a political alliance. In the beginning 
Zurich stood, alone, but, on December 25, 1527, 
made an alliance with Constance, which was known 
as the ‘‘ Christian Burgher Rights’’; by September, 
1529, Bern, St. Gall, Biel, Mtlhausen, Basel, and 
Schaffhausen had also joined. But Zwingli was 
ambitious to extend this alliance. While on his 
way to Marburg he obtained some important in- 
formation at Strassburg, which he despatched to 
the Zurich authorities, relating to the intentions 
of Ferdinand, Archduke of Austria, the Emperor, 
and the Pope, all of whom plotted the destruction 
of the Zwinglians and then of the Lutherans.’ In 
his letter to Vadianus on his return home he said: 
“I think we have gained . . .—things which 
will prove a safeguard for religion and against the 


UNE 363, 365. He sent it also to Constance, pp. 428-430, 
323 


324 Huldreich Zwingli [1529- 
monarchy of Cesar [the Emperor].’’’ This remark 
and his letter to Philip of Hesse’ of November 
2nd, plainly show, as has been elsewhere said,* 
that other things than theology, and things, 
too, in which Zwingli had keener interest, were 
discussed at Marburg.‘ Philip and the Duke of 
Wurtemberg desired to join the Christian Burgher 
Rights and also to bring in the Protestant princes 
and cities of North Germany. Zwingli hoped to 
have in the league all the South German Protestant 
cities. He even considered it possible to lure 
Venice into it, as he had learned that that city was 
favourable to the Protestant movement’; and also 
France.* As the alliance grew he more and more 
keenly anticipated the time when the Protestants 
of South Germany and Switzerland would be so 
numerous and strong that no such insulting propos- 
ition would dare be made about ‘“‘Sacramentarians”’ 
as was made at Spires in 1529, nor would any in- 
tentionally insulting epithet be given tothem. The 
solemn determination of the Emperor to put down 
heresy in Germany, and the increasing insolence and 
persecuting spirit on the part of the Forest Cantons 


DVL, 370, *VIII., 664. 

3 See p. 342. 

4So Bullinger, ii., 236. (C&colampadius was not in the secret 
apparently (viii., 375). 

5 Luther also (Briefe, ed. de Wette, ili., 289). 

° Butzer, or perhaps Jacob Sturm, on December 15, 1529 (viii., 
383), speaks of the report brought by the German Count von Hoh- 
enlohe, that the Pope, the Emperor, the King of France, and the 
Duke of Guise were leagued together against the Gospel in Germany. 
and Switzerland, 


ts31] | Zwingli’s Political Activity 325 


made the alliance seem all the more desirable, and 
explain and excuse Zwingli’s energetic efforts to 
effect it. How closely he united politics and re- 
ligion is strikingly shown in his preface to his trans- 
lation of Isaiah,’ in which he mingles a discussion 
of the best form of government—monarchy, aristo- 
cracy, and democracy, deciding for the second — 
with strictly religious themes. 

Zwingli’s political activity made an unfavourable 
impression upon Luther — who was prejudiced any- 
way—and upon many others who shared his opinion 
that such resort to worldly politics betrayed mistrust 
of spiritual forces. The Lutheran princes rejected 
at Schmalkald, on December 3, 1529, the alliance 
with the Zwinglians proposed by the Landgrave, a 
refusal which damped the ardour of the South Ger- 
man cities. Ulm determined to hold off from any 
alliance with the Swiss.” Zwingli’s hopes to get 
Venice * and France into the alliance were equally 
vain. In view of his vehement denunciations of the 
alliance between the Swiss and the foreign princes 
it was apparently very inconsistent in him to seek 
such alliance, and an alliance, too, with bigoted 
Roman Catholic Powers, one of which (France) 
had herself oppressed Protestantism; but the just- 
ification to his mind was the supposed peril of 


1V., 483-489. 

2 Vadian, Deutsche Schriften, iii., 263; Escher, Die Glaubenspar- 
teien in der Lidgenossenschaft und thre Beziehungen zum Auzland 
(Frauenfeld, 1882), p. 126. 

3 Cf. his letter to the Zurich magistrates from Strassburg, Septem- 
ber 17, 1529 (vili., 365 sgg.), and that to Philip of Hesse (viii., 665). 


326 Huldreich Zwingli [1529- 


Protestantism proceeding from the union of Pope 
and Emperor. The city of Zurich, acting as the 
spokesman for all the cities in the Christian 
Burgher Rights in these special efforts, was repre- 
sented by Rudolf Collin," who had been present at 
Zwingli’s political discussion with the Landgrave, 
and knew, therefore, the whole matter, and was 
Zwingli’s choice as delegate to Venice and France. 
He left Zurich December 11th, and after a somewhat 
dangerous journey came into the Doge of Venice’s 
presence on December 25th. The mission was in 
vain, for Venice had just concluded an alliance with 
the Emperor. Collin was back in Zurich on Janu- 
ary 19th, and made a report to the Zurich Senate.’ 
It is every way probable that Francis I., King of 
France, and not Zwingli, made the first overtures 
toward an alliance, for it is notorious that though 
Francis I. persecuted the Reformed in France, he 
was willing to make alliances with the Reformed 
States because he thought thereby to hurt his foe, 
the Emperor. That such a union was projected by 
the French King was perfectly well known.* On 


1See biographical sketch by Konrad Furrer, Halle, 1862 (reprint 
from Zeitschrift fiir Wissenschafthche Theologie), pp. 48 sqq. 

*See Zwingli’s planning for the Venetian alliance (ii., 3, 67-68). 
On December 27, 1529, he learned from Peter Tschudi (viii., 386 sg.) 
at Coire that the Venetians had made an alliance with the Emperor, 
so Collin’s report did not surprise him. Capito speaks of Collin’s 
reception (viii., 445). It appears from a letter of Duke Ulrich of 
Wurtemberg that even after this rebuff Zwingli still had hopes 
(viii., 411). 

3 Cf. a letter to Zwingli, dated January 18, 1530, wherein two 
Swiss in the service of the King of France offer their services to 
bring about a conference between the representative of the King and 


1331) | Zwingli’s Political Activity 327 


February 16th, Lambert Maigret, the French Am- 
bassador, wrote to Zwingli from Baden, fourteen 
miles north by west of Zurich, acknowledging the 
receipt of Zwingli’s letter upon the subject, and 
asking for the draught of the proposed alliance with 
France, as he had done before, but Zwingli re- 
fused on February 18th to communicate details 
of his plans because, among other reasons, he 
was not quite sure of the sincerity of the King’s 
eintentions.’ Maigret again on February 21st re- 
peated his request to see the plan,’ and Zwingli at 
last acquiesced and sent him by Collin a draught of 
a treaty for the French King to sign,* which was ac- 
knowledged, on February 27th, by him and his col- 
league, D’Angerant, at Freiburg, seventy miles 
south-west of Zurich.“ Maigret cautiously declared 
that he could do nothing while the King’s sons were 
in captivity, nor did he dare to send a letter to the 
King on the matter lest his messenger be seized. 
And so the negotiations ended. Yet from allusions 
in his later letters it is evident that Zwingli did not 
give up all hope of eventually bringing the French 
King into some sort of an alliance.’ 
of the Zurich allies (viii., 397). The Landgrave of Hesse took great 
interest in this mission (c/. his letter of February I, 1530, viii., 404 
sgq.). As these negotiations were delicate, the Landgrave and the 
Duke of Wurtemberg in writing to Zwingli employed arbitrary signs 


in their letters to designate certain persons, mostly sovereigns, and 
also the correspondents themselves. Cf. letter to Zwingli of Feb- 
ruary 14, 1530 (vili., 411). 

VI laid 8 VIII., 416-418. It is undated and unsigned, 

2 MUL, Aas 4VIII., 421-42. 

5 On April 5, 1530, he wrote: ‘‘So far as I now see, the French 
affair hangs fire till the hostages of the King are either returned or 


328 Huldreich Zwinghi [1529~ 


Zwingli hoped to include Ulm in the alliance, but 
failed through treachery, as he complains." He was 
suspicious that the French delegates were in secret 
communication with the Five Forest Cantons and 
so counselled against a treaty with those cantons.’ 
The alliance which Zwingli and Zurich on the one 
hand and the Landgrave of Hesse on the other were 
eager to have Bern and the other Swiss Reformed 
cities make with the Landgrave of Hesse was so 


all hope of recovering them has vanished” (viii., 443). On July 22, 
1530, he wrote: ‘‘ The King of France is feeling great joy, and has 
himself written that his sons [who had been in Charles V.’s hands 
since 1526] have been returned” (viil., 483). On January 23, 1531, 
he wrote, relative to the proposal to include the French King in the 
Schmalkald League (see next chapter), this extraordinary acquies- 
cence in the latter’s hiring the Swiss to fight his battles, which is 
entirely contrary to Zwingli’s previous utterances and conduct in the 
matter of pensions: ‘‘I am of the opinion that public money or 
allowances which are given for the preservation of peace are for no 
reason to be abolished, for it is as lawful to receive them as it is 
tribute or customs ; and then the King — or any other ruler, say the 
Austrian tyrant, will on that account be less likely to be opposed to 
us. And particularly the King [of France] will on this account op- 
pose us the less, who is assuredly not to be despised. For however 
he has corrupted our republics by bribery, nay, destroyed them, yet 
it is clear that he alone thus far is the only one who with the Swiss 
has opposed the erection of a monarchy or its degeneration, when 
once erected, intoa tyranny. There is a limit to these things. To 
private subsidies I am altogether opposed, public I am not willing to 
beg, but will receive when offered. Even Solomon received immense 
gifts from the Queen of Sheba” (viii., 572). On March 14, 1531, the 
French delegates, Maigret and Daugertin, addressed him in behalf 
of their King and tried to get his assent to an alliance (viii., 603 sg.). 

IVIII., 422, 429. Ulm, however, was won for the Reformation 
(vili., 607 5¢.). 

2 VITT 4325 


rs3r1 | Zwingli’s Political Activity 329 


vigorously opposed by Bern that it could not be 
effected." So the only outlying city to come into 
the alliance was Strassburg,’ and this event was 
celebrated on January 27, 1530, by a joyful feast 
given in Zurich to the Strassburg commissioners. 
But the friendly relations between Zwingli and the 
Landgrave continued all the same. Zwingli kept a 
close watch upon the Emperor and availed himself 
of all sources of knowledge as to his movements, 
which he viewed with great suspicion *; for he be- 
lieved that if the Emperor were able to suppress the 
Reformation in Germany he would next try to do 
the same thing in Switzerland. 

All knew that much would depend upon the Diet 
to be held at Augsburg on June 30, 1530. Both 
parties among the Protestants in the Empire made 
great preparation to effect their ends in it, but only 
showed thereby their radical differences, while their 
rulers, except the Landgrave of Hesse, inclined 
more or less to make terms with the Emperor for 
political ends.“ The Roman Catholics confidently 
awaited results. Zwingli, on March 26th, offered to 
attend the Diet under the protection of the Land- 
grave.” But perhaps the Landgrave could not pro- 
tect him, and so as no one else would, when the time 


IVIII., 404, 405; cf. 411, 412. 7 VM S83 af 303 

* Ch. Vill. 422 sq. 

4 The situation is plainly laid bare in a letter of Capito to Zwingli 
written on April 22, 1530 (viii., 445 sg.). Butzer shows the general 
confidence among the Reformed in the Landgrave (viii., 449). So 
also Capito (viii., 454), 

FVIII, 438, 


330° Huldreich Zwingli [1529- 


came he did not go.’ CEcolampadius proposed on 
May 22, 1530, that the three cantons of Zurich, 
Bern, and Basel should unite ina delegate to Augs- 
burg, who could speak in French, and in connection 
with the delegates from Strassburg, lay before the 
Emperor the case of the Reformed.’ 

Although Zwingli was absent his interest in the 
Diet, was intense and his many friends who were 
present kept him informed of what went on.* The 
expressions his friends used, such as, the ‘‘ragings of 
the Lutherans ’’; ‘‘ the deceits of the not too frank 
Melanchthon ’’;* Luther ‘‘ plays the buffoon,’’® 
showed that the Reformed were quite the equals of 
the Lutherans in suspicion and abuse, and gave no 
promise that the Diet would not emphasise their 
unhappy differences. On the other hand, the un- 
fortunate Carlstadt is spoken of very respectfully 
and even affectionately by the Swiss; probably he 
was, as Zwingli says, “‘a very different man from 
what Luther made him out to be.”’ ° 

1 Unfortunately his letters, which doubtless threw light upon his 
motives or those of the Zurich authorities in the matter, have been 
lost. In view of Zwingli’s absence we shall confine ourselves to 
merely the points of contact between him and the Diet. 

*VIII., 456. The request for a French speaker is noteworthy in 
view of the fact that Charles V. opened the Diet in German speech 
(viii., 469). But this was probably read by him, for it is notorious 
that he had at least only an imperfect acquaintance with the German 
(Suppl., p. 38 sg.). 

3 Cf. viii., 483. The letters of Sturm from Augsburg, May 31 and 
June 28, 1530, are particularly graphic (vili., 458, 459, 465 sg.). Cf. 
also the letters of Butzer in Egli’s Analecta Reformatoria, i., 44-60. 

4 Both Butzer and (Ecolampadius, respectively (viii., 460). 

5 (Ecolampadius (viii., 471). 

SVIII., 461 ; cf. pp. 456-458, 599. 


1531] Zwingli’s Political Activity 331 


With mutual dislike between the Lutherans and 
the Zwinglians, it is not to be wondered at that it 
was impossible for the Protestants to present a 
united front to the common foe, the imperial party 
and their ecclesiastical allies. The Swiss were so 
obnoxious to the latter, both as republicans and as 
aids to the French, that it required courage to show 
themselves in the Diet, and no prince defended 
them except the Landgrave of Hesse, and he only 
secretly." Zwingli was so hated, as being at the bot- 
tom of the opposition both religious and political to 
imperialistic schemes of all kinds, that it would have 
been useless hardihood for him to have ventured 
there without protection. Indeed to be a friend of 
his was sufficient to bring a person into danger, as 
Capito and Butzer found, who attended the Diet as 
delegates from Strassburg. So at first they hid 
themselves, but afterwards emerged.’ 

The confession of faith which the Lutherans 
presented to the Emperor was accepted by Philip 
of Hesse.* Knowing full well that he could not 
accept any Lutheran confession of faith, Zwingli 
prepared inside of three days a brief statement of 
~TVIIL, 467; ¢f. p. 473. 

? Butzer started for Augsburg, Sunday, June 19th; Capito the 
next day. The distance is about 145 miles in a straight line, run- 
ning east by a little south from Strassburg. Capito, and probably 
Butzer also, certainly rode upon the highway which ran through 
Esslingen, almost due east, near Stuttgart. Butzer arrived at Augs- 
burg on Friday, June 23rd, which was the day before that of the 
Nativity of St. John the Baptist ; Capito on Sunday, June 26th (viii., 


472, 484). 
8 This action did not prevent Zwingli from writing him a most 
respectful and admiring letter on June 22nd (viii., 482 sg.). 


332 Huldreich Zwingli fieaq- 


his belief, had it printed in Zurich, signed the pre- 
face on July 3rd, the same day sent it by messenger to 
Augsburg, and curiously enough there he relied upon 
a Roman Catholic, the Bishop Designate of Con- 
stance, to see that the Emperor got it, which he did 
on July 8th.’ The Lutherans received it with scorn. 
But then as the Reformed belittled everything the 
Lutherans did, it was only tit for tat. Eck made it 
the occasion of a bitter attack on Zwingli, who replied 
on August 27, 1530." The Emperor, of course, was 
totally unaffected by it, probably never read a line 
of it. Butin and out of the Diet it was closely read.° 

Though the Diet was not dissolved till November 
Igth, the Landgrave left Augsburg on August 
6th. His intention to do so was known to Zwingli, 
for on August 3rd he endeavoured to dissuade him 
from doing so, but the letter must have arrived 
after he had gone.* In this month Zwingli again 
urged Bern to admit the Landgrave into the Christ- 
ian Burgher Rights.° Zwingli considered the 
threats of the pontifical party as not likely to be 
carried out, owing to the significant fact that the in- 
habitants of the German cities, where nominally they 
were in command, were really disaffected and would 
prove traitors. They relied upon the divided state 


1 The Confession is given in iv., 3-18 ; the English translation by 
Rey. Prof. Dr. H. E. Jacobs, Book of Concord, ii., 158-179, is 
reprinted in the Appendix to this volume. Zwingli was probably 
aware that the South German cities of Strassburg, Constance, Mem- 
mingen, and Lindau were about to present a Confession of their own, 
which they did on July 11th. 

2TV., 19-41; cf. viii., 490. 4 ViLLL., 4972 

3 VIII., 486, 487. 5VIII., 488. 


131]  Zwinglis Political Activity 333 


of Protestantism. The way to oppose their strata- 
gems, which so alarmed the Protestants,’ was in his 
judgment this: 


“The truth must be acknowledged with the greatest 
boldness, and whatever is due to the Emperor must be 
promised, provided only that he leaves us full liberty of 
our faith ; unless, indeed, from the Word of God he shall 
have shown us something else, or by fair, free, and open 
comparison shall have gained some other victory. If he 
shall refuse to do this, you will reply that you are grieved 
that the Emperor has been so deceived by false prophets 
as to believe that he has a power over your souls and 
your faith which no devout emperor has ever assumed, 
or if one has assumed it, no one has ever conceded. 
And that therefore you will undergo everything rather 
than move from your position, unless the Word of God 
move you. Upon this, believe me, the papal party will 
withdraw. For they know that if they impel the Emperor 
to the use of force they will speedily go to destruction ; 
for all their possessions are open to pillage, and when 
these perish the victory is not gained. This knot is to 
be loosed by means of firmness. If you reply that what 
I say is true, but that united counsel cannot be reached, 
I reply that it is possible, only you must always act with 
prudence, love, and wisdom. When the Roman empire, 
or any empire, has once begun to suppress a sincere 
religion, and we neglectfully permit it, we shall be no 
less guilty of denying or contemning it than the oppress- 
ors themselves.” ” 


The Strassburg theologians, Capito and Butzer, 


TVITT., 494, 496, 504. *VIII., 493. 


334 Huldreich Zwingli [1529- 


tried faithfully to hit upon some formula relating to 
the Eucharist which might be acceptable to Luther- 
ans and Reformed alike, and both visited Zwingli, 
the former on Septemper 4th, and the latter in 
October. Zwingli agreed to a formula,’ but such 
compromises could avail nothing. 

The Landgrave requested Zwingli, on January 25, 
1530, to write out for him the sermon upon Pro- 
vidence which he had preached at Marburg,’ and 
Zwingli complied.* On ‘‘ Monday after Dionysius’ 
Day,’’ z. e., on October 10, 1530, the Landgrave 
wrote urging him to hasten his admittance into the 
Christian Burgher Rights, and informing him that 
he had heard that the Gospel was making great 
headway in England, and that it would help the 
truth if some pious and learned man could be sent 
there to report.’ 

On November 16th there was held in Basel a Diet 
of the Evangelical cities and the compromise formula 
of Butzer’s upon the Lord’s Supper, viz., that the 
Body and Blood of Christ are really in the Lord’s 
Supper to the spirit, not to the body, was agreed 
upon. But Zwingli, who was absent, refused to 
accept the formula, and proposed: ‘‘ We confess 
that the Body of Christ is present in the Sacred 
Supper not as body nor in the nature of body, but 
sacramentally to the mind that is upright, pure, and 


ISVALITS 1500: 2 VIII., 406. 

3TV., 79-142. The work is dated August 20, 1530. It is to be 
hoped that Zwingli did not inflict on the Landgrave in his original 
sermon all the matter he sent him. 

4VITI., 534. 


“WHYGSHLVS 13S8va 








Zwingli’s Political Activity 335 


reverent toward God.”’' He would not depart from 
what he conceived to be the truth for Luther or 
anybody else. Zwingli, Gécolampadius, Megander, 
and Capito also united in a statement of their posi- 
tion, defending the above formula.” So Butzer’s 
great scheme of uniting the Protestant host went 
shipwreck. 


IVIII., 549. The letter is dated November 2oth, and is signed 
by Heinrich Engelhard, Leo Jud, and Zwingli, the last being named 
as the author. 

2 NADU Tae 


CHAPTER XVI 


THE LAST YEAR OF ZWINGLI’S LIFE 
1531 


WINGLI was now the accepted head of the 
Reformed Church. He stood over against 
Luther as a great Protestant leader. His contem- 
poraries consulted him or insulted him according as 
their sympathies were with him or against him. In 
South Germany and German Switzerland he had his 
hand upon every religious enterprise. So Zwingli’s 
position towards the Schmalkald League was of 
general importance.’ This League was the direct 
result of the decision of the Diet of Augsburg, No- 
vember Ig, 1530, to give the Protestants until April 
15, 1531, to submit to the Church, otherwise they 
would be proceeded against with arms. 

This was considered by the Protestants as intended 
to force them to make a fight for their rights, and 
accordingly the Lutheran princes, the Landgrave 
of Hesse, and others met on December 22, 1530, at 
Schmalkalden, a town in the present Prussian pro- 


1Zwingli writes of the meeting at Schmalkalden on January 3, 
1531, but expresses an unfavourable opinion upon it (viii., 570). 


336 


mt. Least) Vearof Zwinglis Life 337 


vince of Hesse-Nassau, twenty miles south-west of 
Gotha, and resolved to make formal protest against 
the decree of the Diet and against the crowning of 
Ferdinand of Austria as German King, and to stand 
by one another in case any of them was attacked, 
just as they had met in the previous year (November 
25, 1529) in the same place to protest against the 
decree of the Diet of Spires. As neither of these 
protests was listened to, on March 29, 1531, the 
Protestants joined themselves into a League." 

In this combination the prime mover was Zwing- 
li’s advocate, the Landgrave of Hesse, and as com- 
ponent parts were South German cities in which 
Zwingli’s doctrines had been accepted. It was, 
therefore, expected that the Swiss cities would 


1 The following princes and cities entered into this League: John 
the Elector of Saxony; Philip, Ernest, and Francis, Dukes of Bruns- 
wick-Luneburg ; Philip, Landgrave of Hesse; Wolfgang, Prince of 
Anhalt; Gebhard and Albert, Counts of Mansfeld; the cities of 
Strassburg, Ulm, Constance, Reutlingen, Memmingen, Lindau, 
Biberach, Isny, Liitbeck, Magdeburg, and Bremen. The purposes 
of the League were thus stated : 

“‘ Whereas, it was altogether likely that those who had the pure 
Word of God preached in their territory and thereby had abolished 
many abuses, were to be prevented by force from continuing this 
service so pleasing to God; and, whereas, it was the duty of every 
Christian government not only to have the Word of God preached to its 
subjects, but also as far as possible to prevent their being compelled 
to fall away from it, they [the princes and the cities named above], 
solely for the sake of their own defence and deliverance, which both 
by human and divine right was permitted to every one, had agreed 
that whenever any one of them was attacked on account of the Word 
of God and the doctrine of the Gospel, or anything connected there- 
with, all of the others would immediately come to his assistance as 
best they could and help to deliver him,” 


22 


338 Huldreich Zwingli [1531 


accept the invitation of the Elector of Saxony, com- 
ing thus endorsed by so many of their friends, and 
enter into this League. But once more the doctrine 
of the Lord’s Supper was an obstacle tounion. The 
Elector went so far as to accept the Tetrapolitan 
creed on this point." So it was hoped by those who 
wished the Swiss cities to join the League, that 
Zwingli would let its eucharistic teaching pass with- 
out protest.” But Zwingli was not so inclined, any 
more than Luther was.* He said: 


“The business of the truth is not to be deserted, even 
to the sacrifice of our lives. For we live not for this age 
of ours, nor for the princes, but for the Lord. To admit 
for the sake of the princes any thing that will diminish 
or vitiate the truth is silly, not to say impious. To have 
held fast to the purpose of the Lord is to conquer all 
adversaries,” * 


If the union had not been conditioned upon assent 
to the Tetrapolitan statement on the Eucharist it 
might have been effected. But this was the rock 
upon which it split. A conference of the Swiss Re- 
formed cities was held at Basel on February 13, 1531, 
to decide upon their action respecting the League. 


1 This was the compromise stated on p. 334. The four cities were 
Strassburg, Constance, Memmingen, and Lindau. See Schaff, 
Creeds, 1., 526-5209. 

* See Capito’s letter of January 22, 1531 (vili., 570-572), and the 
Landgrave’s of January 25, 1531. The latter took a business view 
of the situation, that it was a strife over words and not over facts 
(vili., 575). 

3 See Butzer’s letter of February 6th (viii., 576 sgg.). 

4VIII., 579. 


1331) Last Year of Zwingli’s Life 339 


Zwingli was not present, but was represented by Leo 
Jud. His opinion that it would be a sacrifice of the 
truth to accept Butzer’s ambiguous statement was 
adopted by the conference, and so the Swiss Pro- 
testant cities did not join the League. Zwingli had 
naturally been enthusiastic for such union. It 
seemed the fruition of his long-cherished hopes. 
But he would not surrender his interpretation of the 
facts concerning the Lord’s Supper for any consid- 
eration, and Zurich sustained him. Bern inclined 
to it, alarmed as she was by the Duke of Savoy’s 
attack on Geneva, which she thought inspired by 
the Emperor and therefore ominous of her own 
fate, but she followed Zurich’s lead. 

On March rith, Zwingli issued his translation of 
Jeremiah with annotations, and dedicated it to the 
city of Strassburg, in further recognition of its en- 
tering into the Christian Burgher Rights.’ 

An interesting proof of the extent of Zwingli’s 
reputation is a letter written to him from Ghent by 
John Cousard, who signs himself in Greek, “‘ Bishop 
of the Brethren of the Common Life,’’ lamenting 
that Zwingli wrote so much in German, and asking 
him to have his writings in that language translated 
into Latin!* Zwingli replied to it on August 31, 
1531, and makes these remarks upon the Apocry- 
pha:* 

1VI.,i., 1-201. Butzer was especially pleased with his dedication 
(viii., 592). 

2 The letter is dated March 17, 1530, but Zwingli’s editors follow 
Simler in thinking it rather 1531, and so transfer it to that latter 
year (viii., 587-590). 

SV TIT; 630; 4VIII., 639. 


340 Huldreich Zwingli » [1531 


“There are certain considerations which you adduce 
from the Apocryphal Books. These, I concede, contain 
some things that are worth reading; yet they never 
attain to that measure of authority that the Canonical 
Books have. They are more diluted and feebler, so that 
they appear rather as imitations of the former Scriptures 
than written in the peculiar fervour of the fresh spirit.” 


Zwingli’s eagerness to enlarge the Christian 
Burgher Rights appeared in his letter to Vadian 
of April 5th: 


“The princes who are on the side of the Gospel are too 
far away, but the cities of the Christian Alliance are close 
together and consequently admirably situated for giving 
mutual aid and counsel, when occasion demands, to 
whomsoever they should take into friendship. This is 
what I am trying to accomplish not only this year but 
continually ; but I accomplish little, for some persons 
are more inert than is right.”* 


A more immediate danger than invasion by the 
Emperor —which as a matter of fact never took 
place, since in the providence of God he was di- 
verted, by the necessity of dealing with the Turks, 
from adiministering that stern discipline to the recal- 
citrant Protestant states which he contemplated at 
Augsburg — was civil war among the German Can- 
tons of Switzerland. The first Cappel war had 
settled nothing. The Five Cantons paid on Octo- 
ber 21, 1530, the war cost, as they were obligated by 
the treaty to do, but they never lessened an iota 


IVIII., 593. 


3311 Last Year of Zwingli’s Life 341 


their demand to be free to regulate their internal 
affairs as they pleased, not only in secular but in re- 
ligious affairs. They complained bitterly in the 
Diet at Baden on January 7, 1531, of the ill-treat- 
ment they had received, especially from Zurich, 
which had confiscated the lands of the abbey of St. 
Gall; and all the time they were planning renewal 
of the alliance with Austria. No one perceived 
more clearly than Zwingli that war was inevitable, 
much as he deprecated it. On January 23, 1531, he 
wrote: “‘ We do not wish to go to war with the 
Five Cantons, but to restore the lost ones to our- 
selves, and to themselves, believe me.’’? On Feb- 
ruary 13, 1531, under his advice and in his words, 
Zurich at the council of the Evangelical Cantons 
urged her associates to consider whether the time 
were not favourable to an attack upon the Five Can- 
tons, in view of the inability of the Emperor to come 
to their assistance. But the ofher Evangelical Can- 
tons were not ready for war. On March 7th, Zwingli 
wrote: ‘“‘ The madness and audacity of the Five 
Cantons not even the lower regions could endure.”’* 

Another Federal Diet was held on March Ioth, 
and Zurich produced her list of complaints against 
the Five Cantons specifying the instances wherein 
the Evangelicals had been persecuted. The Forest 
deputies listened with undisguised indifference, for 
they had their counterbalancing grievances. While 
these unprofitable recriminations were going on, 
deputies from the Grisons appeared appealing for 
help against the condottieri Giovanni Giacomo de’ 


IVIII.,- 572. 2VIII., 586. 


342 Huldreich Zwingli [1531 


Medici,’ whose three ruined castles of Rocca di 
Musso look down upon the traveller to-day sailing 
on Lake Como, as he approaches Dongo, near the 
head of the lake on the western bank. There, 
from 1525 to 1531, he resided and thence held sway 
over the entire lake. It appeared that this free- 
booter had fallen upon a Grisons deputation (Mar- 
tin Paul and son) returning home from Milan 
and murdered them at Reisigen.* Simultaneously 
he had captured Morbegno (east of Como), the key 
to the Valtellina, the broad valley of the Adda, 
which was a subject land of the Grisons; and the Gri- 
sonsese could not dislodge him, hence they appealed 
to the confederates for help.* The Tyrant of Musso, 
as he was called, probably acted entirely of his own 
motion in these proceedings. He had done similar 
things before against Grisonsese and Grisons terri- 
tory. But in the excited state of the Evangelicals, 
especially in Zurich under Zwingli, it is not to be 
wondered at that the idea found currency, that be- 
cause the Grisons had accepted the Reformation 
Musso had been incited to act as he had done by the 
Emperor and been furnished troops by him; in 
fact, that this action was the beginning of the long- 
dreaded imperial invasion of Switzerland to suppress 


1 He pretended to belong to the famous family of that name, but 
he was really a Medeghino. He was a Milanese and nominal Cas- 
tellan of Musso as subject of the Duke of Milan, but in reality he 
was entirely independent. 

> Bullinger, ii., 355. 

3 Butzer, on March 24th, had heard of the troubles, for he writes 
from Strassburg: ‘‘ May God assist the Rheeti” (Grisonsese) (viii., 
592). 


1531) Last Year of Zwingli’s Life 343 


the Reformation! Consequently the appeal of the 
Grisonsese produced a cleavage in the Diet. The 
Evangelicals listened to it and responded with pro- 
mises of help. The Forest Cantons declined, and 
their refusal was construed as showing that they 
had some sort of secret understanding with the Em- 
peror. That they rejoiced over the misfortune of 
the Reformed probably was true, but their refusal 
was natural in view of the refusal of the Grisons to 
aid them in 1529 and of the confessional differences 
which were so much emphasised. It was, however, 
another of the unhappy differences which issued 
quickly in civil war. 

The Protestant Cantons sent eleven thousand 
men to the aid of the Grisonsese. The Musso 
troops were driven out of their territory; the lord 
of Musso was besieged in his castle. Then the 
Duke of Milan (Francesco Sforza II.) in May took 
up the war as his own and all but two thousand of the 
Swiss retired. On September 29, 1531, the Duke’s 
legate, Panizzone, asked Zurich for powder.’ The 
castle was in the next year taken and demolished. 

Zwingli, in writing to Vadian on April 5, 1531,’ 
thus expresses himself upon the matter: 


“ How much circumspection is now needed we see who 
have hitherto been blinder than moles, when great armies 
are sent into the passes of the Alps, principally because 
the Emperor with all his councils or parliaments defends 
not a robber or a parricide, but a violator of the law of 
nations. For even if this man had been his own brother 


1VIII., 646. 2 VLA 503: 


344 Huldreich Zwingli [1531 


he ought to have given him up after so infamous and 
unheard-of a crime, Will posterity ever believe that the 
Ambassador was not merely intercepted but seized, with 
his son and the horses they were riding, and tortured 
and mangled as by the hand of a butcher? And so this 
is what I ask of you; for I see that some of whom this 
same thing has been asked are moving too slowly. In 
any way you can, assemble the faithful of Lindau, and 
through them those of Isny and Memmingen also. I 
mean those who are on the side of the Gospel and in the 
government, and are such that they may be trusted with 
what you have to say tothem. Assemble them that they 
may look after the interests of the Gospel.” ” 


Zwingli was clearly of the opinion that one of two 
ways should be adopted to bring the Forest Can- 


1 The pastor at Tallicon gave him on April 12th an account of the 
military expedition (viii., 594), and Comander another on April 27th 
(viii., 598), from which Tatter letter it appears that the Forest Can- 
tons afterwards joined in the attack on Musso. Comander, on May 
31st, says: ‘‘ The robber Musso had a breathing spell when we 
retired, and he is enrolling soldiers anew” (viii., 607). On June 4th 
Zwingli says: ‘“‘Our men have returned from a siege of Musso, ex- 
cept 2000, It is reported that to-day, June 4th, the people of Musso 
made a rally resulting in a considerable slaughter on both sides, 7. e., 
proportionally. For the rest there were few in the citadel and those 
in our own guard were fewer. They arose in a certain canton and 
scattered the army of the Duke. Ours is safe, with the exception 
of the loss reported. It appears that the Duke of Milan is, or at 
least his followers are, acting deceitfully. The Grisonsese are send- 
ing heavy reinforcements ” (vili., 607). On June 22nd, he heard very 
circumstantially about the progress of the war, especially in com- 
mendation of Stephen Zellar (viii., 613), who, on July 4th, him- 
self wrote, imploring Zwingli to refute the calumnies which had been 
circulated about him (vili., 616). On July 5th he heard again (viii., 
622). From these letters it appears that the Grisonsese, for whose 
benefit Zurich meddled in the war, had acted badly. 


31] Last Year of Zwingli’s Life 345 


tons to terms, either to invade them in such over- 
whelming force as would defeat them out of hand, 
or else to dissolve the Confederacy* and make a 
new alliance which should leave them out. 

In view of the dangers evidently impending, 
Zwingli welcomed any aid the Protestant Swiss 
could get, and so continued or renewed correspond- 
ence with Lambert Maigret and Daugertin, the 
- legates of the French King in Switzerland, and with 
Panizzone, the legate of the Duke of Milan.? On 
May 14th, the former wrote to him a very friendly 
letter,* stating that the French King had sent a 
nobleman to the delegates urging them to do all 
they could to establish a lasting peace among the 
Swiss and laying great stress upon its desirability, 
indeed, its necessity. They were urgent, in view of 
the convention which was to be held in Zurich on 
May 15th, to decide upon Zurich’s course. 

The convention was held, and the decision was 
that the only way to force the Forest Cantons to 
abolish pensions and give free course to the preach- 
ing of the Gospel was for the Protestant Cantons to 
declare an embargo against them in the matter of 
wheat, wine, salt, iron, and steel. All these art- 
icles the Protestant Cantons were to refuse to sell to 
the Forest Cantons, so long as the latter remained 
recalcitrant. This was the counsel of Bern as the 


1 Bullinger, ii., 368. 

2 Cf, letter from the Duke, dated Milan, September 17, 1531 (viii., 
645). For the relations between Zwingli and Sforza, see the letters 
in Historischer Fahrbuch der italienschen Schweiz, xv. (1893). 

3 VIII., 603. 


346 Huldreich Zwinghi [1531 


alternative of war which Zurich favoured, and it 
was strenuously opposed by Zwingli and Zurich.’ 
Zwingli, in his sermon the Sunday following (May 
21st), took occasion to comment upon the action of 
the convention, which he read, and set forth how 
unjust it was to involve the innocent with the 
guilty.” 

But, though contrary to Zurich’s judgment, as 
the convention had declared for the embargo, it was 
administered by her to the letter, and produced the 
foretold results of hatred and dread, and another 
result not foretold, viz.: Zwingli was considered the 
author of all the trouble, both by the Forest Canton 
people and by those Zurichers who were either fav- 
ourable to pensions or directly affected commercially 
by the embargo. Zwingli took this much to heart, 
and perceiving that even the City Council had in it 
those who so cruelly misjudged him, he appeared 
before that body on July 26th and asked permission 
to lay down his office. On July 28th he alludes to 
the heavy load of preaching and teaching he had 
been so long carrying.* This permission the Coun- 
cil refused and prevailed upon him on July 29th to 
withdraw his request.* His action seemed to have 
had a tonic effect upon the Council, which hence- 
forth stood firm for the gospel.* 

Meanwhile ambassadors from the French King, 
Milan, and Nuremberg, were urging upon the 
Evangelicals and the Forest Cantons the necessity 

1 Bullinger, ii., 383. 


2 Tbid., 388. 4 Bullinger, iii., 45. 
$VIII., 626-627. 5 VIII, 634. 


1331] Last Year of Zwingli’s Life 347 


of keeping the peace. On June 4th, Zwingli wrote 
to his friends at Ulm: 


“The ambassadors of the French King are with us for 
the purpose of making peace among the Swiss. The 
Five Cantons are unwilling to admit the preaching of the 
Word, a thing which the ambassadors have demanded of 
them. For when the latter first arrived, they asked the 
Council to show them the way in which peace could be 
had. Whereupon the Council replied that if they hoped 
that the Five Cantons would suffer the Word of God to be 
preached and would keep this condition of peace—not 
to persecute our faith, either among their people or ours, 
we would suffer the matter of peace and friendship to be 
considered. To these half-confidential inquiries of the 
ambassadors they made the reply I have given above— 
that they would not suffer the preaching of the Word of 
God as we understand it, etc., but that in other matters 
they would do all in accordance with the provisions of 
the treaty and the conditions.” * 


On July 25th, he was informed that the French 
King was seeking to unite the people of Coire to 
himself.?, On August 16th, Capito, writing from 
Strassburg, urges him to do his utmost either for 
settled peace or open war with the Forest Cantons.’ 

Joined to the direct action of the ambassadors 
were the efforts of the delegates of the cantons, who 
met six successive times that year at Bremgarten, 
some ten miles west of Zurich, to hit upon some 
compromise which might be generally acceptable.* 


!VIII., 607. 2 VLE, 026, 8 VIII., 633. 
4Concord at times seemed near. C/. vill., 611, 623. 


348 Huldreich Zwingli [1531 


One night, while these negotiations were going on, 
apparently on the night of St. Lawrence’s Day (Au- 
gust 10th), Zwingli secretly came to Bremgarten 
and conferred, at the house of Bullinger, with the 
Bernese delegates,’ and urged upon them the neces- 
sity of striking a telling blow at the Foresters, lest 
by the dilly-dallying tactics the enemy became too 
strong for them to overcome. But as the Evangel- 
icals insisted upon the Forest Cantons giving free 
course to their preachers, and the Forest Cantons 
wanted first of all the removal of the embargo, the 
negotiations were fruitless. On August 20th, Céco- 
lampadius despaired of keeping peace, and wrote’: 
‘“ About concord with the Five Cantons, some have 
hope; I hope I am mistaken, but I fear that unless 
one party humiliates itself or is humiliated, there is 
practically no chance of it.’’ On September 25th, 
Butzer informed Zwingli that if peace could be pre- 
served the Christian Burgher Rights would be 
enlarged by several towns he could mention, and 
added: ‘‘I prefer this to victory over the Forest 
Cantons unless the latter were a bloodless one.’’ ® 

Calumnies on both sides fanned the flames of 
mutual distrust among the Evangelicals and Cath- 
olics. One of these calumnies, and a particularly 
gross one against himself, Zwingli vehemently de- 
nounced in a letter,* which, however, he did not 
send, to an unnamed and personally unknown man 
in Wallis (Valais), the south-west canton of Switzer- 
land, bordering on Savoy. 

1 Bullinger, iii., 48. 2VIIL., 646. 

2VIII., 634. ‘VIII., 610, 611. 


1531) Last Year of Zwingli’s Life 349 


A letter written ‘‘ Wednesday after Ulrich’s 
Day,”’ z. e., July 5th, tells of the determination of 
Schwyz to get food at all hazards, by force of arms 
if necessary. Food was scarce all over Switzerland 
that year, which made the embargo all the severer 
for the Forest Cantons.’ 

But Zwingli had some other things to contemplate 
than the approaching civil war. His good friend 
(Ecolampadius wrote him on July 2oth, from Basel, 
that the book of Michael Servetus upon the “* Errors 
Respecting the Trinity,’’ was being circulated there, 
that he considered it thoroughly blasphemous, al- 
though some of the Strassburgers praised it! He 
offered to send him a copy if he had not seen it.’ 

On July 31st, Gécolampadius informed him: 


“We have remodelled the theological lectures after the 
pattern of your church. A Hebrew professor lectures 
on the Old Testament and a Greek on the New. I my- 
self am to add a theological exposition in Latin on 
both to their more purely grammatical ones. Paul will 
conclude with a discourse in the vernacular.” ° 


On August 13th, the same writes a most interest- 
ing letter upon the attempt of Henry VIII. to 
obtain a divorce from Catherine.* The King had 


Cf Wills, O22. 

? The printer was Secerius of Hagenau in Elsass; the publisher 
was Conrad Koenig of Jena, Basel, and Strassburg, who was 
agent for Luther’s works (Putnam, Books and their Makers in the 
Middle Ages, ii., 231). For analysis and comments of Servetus’s 
book, see Schaff, Hist. Christ. Ch., vil., 715-720. 

SVT 7620; 4VIII., 631 sg. 


350 Huldreich Zwingli [1531 


sought through Grynzus the advice of Cécolam- 
padius, who in turn consulted Zwingli. Ciéco- 
lampadius considered that there was no ground for 
divorce. Zwingli’s letter in reply is lost; its pur- 
port is known from the reply of Gécolampadius’; 
he was adverse, as also was Gryneus.” Capito and 
Butzer would permit Henry to have two wives! ® 

Butzer on September 13th informed him of 
the results of the meeting at Schmalkalden and 
of other matters in the gossipy style of Capito.* 
Two characteristically fervid letters from the im- 
petuous but spiritual and energetic Farel reached 
Zwinegli that year.” They must have cheered his 
soul greatly. 

As the year wore on it was increasingly plain that 
war was inevitable, and Nature seemed to Zwingli to 
prophesy disaster. Zurich was again visited by the 
plague, though not in severe form. Like others of 
his time, Zwingli believed in signs and portents 
and had a lingering faith in astrology. So he was 
greatly disturbed at an extraordinary communica- 
tion from Schenkenberg, near Brugg, in Aargau, 
some seventeen miles north by west of Zurich, writ- 
ten by the magistrate of the village and dated July 
29, 1531, to the effect that on July 24th blood had 
been seen issuing in a stream from the earth!° 
~TVIIL., 634. 

2 VIII., 635 ; cf. for Butzer, viii., 644. 

3 Melanchthon also, Corpus Reformatorum, ii., 520. 

4VIII., 643. 

SVIII., 647, 648. They are the last letters in the Zwingli Cor- 


respondence. 


S VIII, 628. 


31] Last Year of Zwingli’s Life 351 


_ Other equally circumstantial reports of uncommon 
physical phenomena were: that at Zug, some fifteen 
miles south of Zurich, on Lake Zug, a shield had 
been seen in the air; on the river Reuss, which runs 
into Lake Zug, shots were heard at night; on the 
Bruenig Pass, some twenty-five miles south of Lu- 
zern, flags flew in the heavens, and on the Lake of 
Luzern phantom ships sailed filled with ghosts in 
warriors’ garb. At Goostow, in the county of Grén- 
ingen, belonging to Zurich, a poor peasant woman, 
Beatrice of Marckelssheim, bore a child that had 
two heads with faces, three legs, and three arms, 
but only one body. Two of the arms hung from 
the sides as usual, but the third came out of the 
back between the shoulders, and had on the end 
two hands clasped. Two of the legs were also 
normal, but the third hung from behind for all 
the world like a tail! One of the heads died in 
the birth, the other lived a short time after it.’ But 
still more alarming was the comet, of which Zwingli 
writes, on August 16th: “‘ Some have seen a comet 
here in Zurich for three nights. I for one only, 
z. é., August 15th; what we shall see to-day, the 
16th, I don’t know.”’* Bullinger thus relates the 
incident: 


“Upon [St.] Lawrence [day, Thursday, August 10, 
1531], appeared at sunset a right fearful comet whose 
long and broad tail stretched to mid heaven. The colour 
was pale yellow. And when Zwingli was asked what it 
meant by George Miiller, abbot at Wittengen, as stand- 


1 Bullinger, iii., 47. E WING Gee 


Bh2 Huldreich Zwingli [1531 


ing in the churchyard of the Great Minster, near the 
Wettinger House, they contemplated it together, he re- 
plied : ‘ Dear George, it will cost me and many an honest 
man his life, and truth and Church will yet suffer ; still 
Christ will not desert us,’”’’ 


As really nothing had been done to avert the 
war, every day, of course, brought it nearer. So on 
September oth the Zurich Council adopted a plan 
of campaign, and appointed Rudolph Lavater, a 
good friend of Zwingli’s and of the Reformation, 
leader of the forces. But the Council, like the citi- 
zens generally, were not eager to fight. Many 
hoped that something would arise to prevent hos- 
tilities; many secretly sympathised with the Forest 
Cantons, some because they still adhered to the Old 
Faith, and some because they considered the Forest- 
ers unjustly handled, or because of business inter- 
ests. Zwingli had only the gloomiest forebodings, 
and he uttered them in his sermons.” In his last 
letter to CEcolampadius he expressed himself as 
seeing the sword drawn and prepared to do the 
duty of a faithful watcher upon the walls. But 
he_had no expectation of victory. 

On October 4th, the Forest Cantons assembled 
their forces at Zug; unopposed they moved them 
to the very borders of the Zurich canton; and still 
the Zurich Council made no move.’ 

1 Bullinger, iii., 46. 

2 Cf, Ibid., 52. 

8 For the fight at Cappel the classical monograph is Die Schlacht 

von Cappel, 1537. Mitzwei Plinen und einem Anhange ungedruck- 


ter Quellen. Von Emil Egli. Ziirich: Friedrich Schulthess, 1873. 
This author was vicar in Cappel, 1870-71, and so had the best oppor- 


131} Last Year of Zwingli’s Life 353 


On Monday, October gth, the Forest Cantons’ 
troops crossed the border. The news reached Zu- 
rich, only twelve miles away, almost due north, that 
evening. The Council was hastily called, the wager 
of battle accepted, George Gdéldli appointed leader 
of the advance guard, and orders given to make the 
start the next morning. Accordingly, at noon on 
Tuesday, October toth, a little band left the city 
for Cappel, ten miles south. As it moved along it 
received accessions from the villages it passed, so 
that when it reached Cappel that evening it num- 
bered twelve hundred men. The artillery arrived 
in the night. The general call to arms and the ap- 
peal for help from their allies were made by the 
Zurich Council that afternoon. It was early on 
Wednesday, October 11th, before the main army of 
fifteen hundred men, if it could be called an army, 
was under way. Zwingli, according to Swiss cus- 
tom, as chief pastor, bore the banner, on horseback. 
He wore a helmet, a shirt of mail, and aside sword, 
such as every prominent man in that time carried, 
and from his saddle hung a hand-gun — the weapon 
out of which the pistol was evolved.’ As he rode 
along he heard mutterings, “‘ He ought to ride 
tunity to study the battle-field and the battle, which he did with all 
necessary assistance. He became tutor in the University of Zurich in 
1880; professor extraordinary, 1889 ; and a little later full professor 
of Church History. He edits Zwingliana, the organ of Zwingli 
studies (Zurich, 1897 sgg.). I have followed his account with readings 
from Bullinger, the best contemporary witness, and from Staehelin. 

1See the exhaustive and authoritative study of Zwingli’s weapons 


by H. Zeller-Weidmuller in Zwingliana, Zurich, 1899, No. 2, 
pp. 105-108. They are now, except the shirt, which has perished, 


354 Huldreich Zwingli [1531 


first, for he brought it all on!’’ His horse had 
shied when he first attempted to mount, and this 
seemed to him and to the onlookers a bad sign. 
He never expected to see his friends again in this 
life. 

All about him was confusion. He had urged that 
the start should not be made till the full comple- 
ment of four thousand troops was secured, but 
instead it was made with fifteen hundred. There 
were not enough horses to pull the cannon. There 
was no discipline. The host was more a rabble 
than an army. Lavater was the leader of this the 
main body. 

When it came up it found the advance guard 
under Géldli, which had been at Cappel since Tues- 
day night, already in-the presence of their foes. 
Goldli had been strictly charged by the Council not 
to take the offensive, but to await the arrival of the 
reinforcements. On Wednesday morning, probably 
perceiving that the enemy were about to attack him, 
he picked out a place to give battle. The ground all 
about Cappel was rolling, but the high ground he 
chose had a ditch filled with water behind it, much 
wood around it, and swampy land on the north, 
east, and south!" There the few troops he had 
stood while the enemy advanced upon them. 

The battle began at midday. The Foresters were 
well ordered and well led, yet the first onslaught 


preserved in the New Landesmuseum in Zurich. The sword 
measures 1.08 metres in length; the hand-gun, 86 centimetres— 
approximately 40 and 34 inches respectively. 

1 See the plan of the battle, 





ZWINGLI DEPARTING FOR THE BATTLE OF CAPPEL, OCT. 11, 1531. 





531] Last Year of Zwingli’s Life 355 


was repelled by the Zurich artillery. Then the 
enemy shifted their ground and approached from 
the side. As they were toilsomely crossing the 
swamp, dragging their cannon, the Zurichers might 
have struck a fatal blow, but Gdéldli refused to give 
the order, and so the Foresters by 3 P.M. arrived 
safely at an elevation backed by a piece of the woods 
on the east of the Zurichers, which was vantage 
ground. This was the state of things when Lavater 
arrived that afternoon on the hill Albis, whence he 
could survey the entire field. It required but a 
glance to assure him that the situation was de- 
sperate, and, tired as the troops were after their 
march, he yet determined to go to the assistance of 
his countrymen. So Zwingli advised: 


“Tf we wait here till the rest come up in their leisurely 
fashion, then I apprehend it will be too late to help our 
countrymen. We must not stand here and see our friends 
suffer defeat. I go to them and am prepared either to 
die with and among them or to succour them, as God 
pleases,” * 


Battle was resumed late in the afternoon of that 
day, Wednesday, October 11, 1531, and the Zurichers 
were attacked on east and south at the same time. 
Both sides hurled opprobrious epithets against one 
another. ‘‘ Worshippers of idols !’’ “‘ Godless pa- 
pists !’’ cried the one; ‘‘ Sacrilegious scamps !”’ 
‘“ Damned heretics !”’ cried those on the other side. 

Supported by their artillery, the Zurichers at first 
held their own. Lavater encouraged them by his 


1 Bullinger, ili,, 123, 


356 Huldreich Zwingli [1531 


presence in the front rank and his pious speech. 
Zwingli stood by him, although he took no part in 
the fighting, and was heard to say: ‘‘ Brave fellows, 
take heart and fear nothing. We suffer, if we must, 
in a good cause. Commend yourselves to God, 
who is able to care for us and ours. God’s will be 
done! 

But it was an unequal fight,—eight thousand 
Foresters, desperate, united, well armed, against two 
thousand seven hundred Zurichers, disordered and 
ill prepared, and the majority of them wearied with 
their long march. The Zurichers fought heroically, 
and sold their lives dear, but after a time the fight 
became a rout, and the road to Zurich was filled 
with fugitives. 

And Zwingli was among the slain! Wounded 
twice in the legs by a spear and his helmet shivered, 
as it even now bears witness, by a stone, he had 
fallen down. One of the Foresters, out plundering 
the dead and wounded, found him lying on his 
back, his hands folded as in prayer, and his eyes 
directed to heaven. In kindly fashion he offered to 
call a priest to hear his dying confession. Unable 
to speak, Zwingli shook his head. The Forester 
then said: ‘‘ If you cannot speak or make confes- 
sion, pray in your heart to the Mother of God, and 
call upon the saints, that God in His grace may ac- 
cept you.’’ Zwingli again shook his head, and 
continued to look heavenwards. This action marked 
him as a Protestant. Other Foresters had mean- 
while come up. Among them was a captain from 


1 Bullinger, iii., 127. 











‘2, 


's. ~S 
©, < = a 
Ns aS : % 
N Sz, sy rr 
s< <— RAS 
SS ws, . ~ j 
eh ees 
£9, a 
bee 
\ 


Se 


ae 


Cappeder Matter 


























m= Zurichers. Saher sea Bh t: eer ach = Foresters. 








PLAN OF BATTLE OF CAPPEL. 


FROM ‘‘DIE SCHLACHT VON CAPPEL,’’ BY EMIL EGLI. ZURICH : FREDRICK SCHULTHESS. 





1531] Last Year of Zwingli’s Life 357 


Unterwald. He joined the others in reviling the then 
unrecognised man for his Reformed faith, and, call- 
ing him a heretic, who did not deserve to live, drew 
his sword and gave Zwingli his release from life.’ 

So in the midst of his dead friends and living foes 
lay the body of the man who had brought the Re- 
formation into German Switzerland. Zwingli was 
unknown by face to the men who saw him die. But 
later he was recognised, and then, alas! his body 
was treated disgracefully, for his name was to each 
Forester synonymous with all that in religion and 
politics he had been taught to hate. 

The news spread through the host that Zwingli, 
the arch heretic, the author of all the misery which 
had come upon the Forest Cantons, had been killed. 
The next morning, Thursday, October 12th, his 
body was gazed upon by an enormous throng, who 
reviled him,—except one man, Hans Schoénbrunner, 
an old priest living at Zug, but formerly a canon of 
the Great Minster, and colleague of Zwingli, who to 
his immortal honour had the courage to say, ad- 

1 Cf, Bullinger, iii., 136. According to tradition Zwingli died be- 
neath a pear tree which stood on the east side of the present road 
upon a little mound. Its successor stands there to-day. On the 
alleged place of his dead body is a rough stone, fifteen feet high, 
set up in 1837. On the front is this inscription, in Latin: ‘‘ Here 
Ulrich Zwingli, who was with Martin Luther in the Sixteenth Cent- 
ury after the birth of Christ, the founder of the emancipated Christ- 
ian Church, died in the sure hope of immortality on the 11th of 
October, 1531, bravely fighting, even against his brethren, for truth 
and country.” On the back is this German inscription : ‘‘ ‘ You can 
kill the body, but you cannot kill the soul.’ So said on this spot 


Ulrich Zwingli, as he lay dying on October 11, 1531, the hero’s 
death for truth and for the freedom of the Christian Church.” 


358 Huldreich Zwingli [1531 


dressing Zwingli’s corpse: ‘‘ Whatever your re- 
ligious belief was, I know that you have been a 
good Confederate. May God forgive your sins! ’’ *— 
but this declaration had no effect upon the rest. 
The punishment of a traitor to his country was 
meted out to his dead body, for it was quartered 
by the hangman, and then, as the punishment of a 
heretic was according to imperial law, its sections 
were mixed with dung and burnt.” 

The battle of Cappel was for the Zurichers 
a Flodden Field,* for probably every prominent 
Zurich family was called to mourn its dead. Among 
the five hundred slain—eloquent though silent 
witnesses to the brave resistance they had made 
and the desperate attempt at any cost to repel the 
foe — were seven members of the Small and nine- 
teen of the Great Council, and almost all the prin- 
cipal captains; while as interested spectators at the 
struggle and victims of it were seven clergymen of 
the city and eighteen of the canton outside; and 
the roster of the slain included Zwingli, the greatest 
of them all, and his brother-in-law, stepson, and son- 
in-law! 

The Foresters captured a great quantity of arms, 

1 Bullinger, iii., 167. 

2 Eeli, p. 44. See the curious tale about his heart in Myconius, 
p- 14. 

3 The famous battle of Flodden Field was fought between James 
IV., the King of Scotland, and the Earl of Sussex on September g, 
1513. ‘The result was the complete defeat of the Scotch. It was the 
feature that among the slain were the Scotch King and so many of 
the nobility that scarcely a noble Scotch family but had one dead 
upon that fateful field, which particularly makes the defeat of the 
Zurichers at Cappel a parallel. 


31] Last Year of Zwingli’s Life 359 


in fact nearly all the Zurichers had brought to the 
field, and their own loss was small. But know- 
ing full well that the allies of Zurich and the 
reserves would be too much for them if they vent- 
ured farther into Zurich territory, the Foresters 
remained on the field of Cappel three days to revel 
and feast, and then withdrew to Zug. Thither the 
allies came up as was expected, but the Foresters on 
October 24th attacked them successfully. Magnan- 
imous counsels prevailed, and instead of following 
up their advantage the Foresters remembered that 
the allies were fellow Swiss and concluded with 
them the Second Peace of Cappel (November 2oth). 
Naturally this second peace was no repetition of the 
first. Now the men of the Old Faith dictated the 
terms to the Evangelicals. Zwingli’s dream of pro- 
pagating the Gospel in the Forest Cantons was not 
realised. Each side stayed in the faith it had 
adopted and engaged not to molest the other. 
Neither side was to make the religious faith of the 
other a matter of reproach. The Christian Burgher 
Rights were dissolved, and all the special provisions 
of the First Treaty of Cappel were abrogated. Zu- 
rich had to return her share in the war cost that 
the Foresters had paid the allies, and to redeem in 
money such prisoners as had not been exchanged. 
But the greatest loss by the Evangelical German 
Swiss was, after all, not in money or territory, but 
in hope. They had expected to impress their ideas 
upon all Switzerland. After the defeat of October 
11th they lost hope of doing so. Still, what they 
had gained was substantially held, and German 


360 Huldreich Zwingli [1531 


Switzerland in general has remained to this day 
Reformed. 

Anna Reinhard, the widow of the Reformer, 
found in Heinrich Bullinger, the successor of 
Zwingli, a protector and friend. He took her and 
her children into his own family and cared for her 
until her death in December, 1538, after a few weeks’ 
illness. He also educated Zwingli’s children. 

William, Zwingli’s eldest son, born in 1526, after 
studying in Zurich went to Strassburg to complete 
his education, but there died of the plague in 1541. 
Ulrich, born January 6, 1528, who is said to have 
been the image of his father, studied at Basel, be- 
came a clergyman, dzakonus in the Great Minster in 
Zurich in his nineteenth year, professor of Hebrew 
in 1556, of theology in 1557; he married Bullinger’s 
daughter Anna. She died of the plague in 1565. 
Regula, the eldest daughter, born in 1525, who is 
said to have been the image of her mother, married 
on August 3, 1541, when in her seventeenth year, 
Bullinger’s foster-son, Rudolf Gualther, a brilliant 
man, born in Zurich, November 9, 1519; studied at 
Basel, Strassburg, Lausanne, and Marburg, and in 
1542 became pastor of St. Peter’s in Zurich, and so 
remained the rest of his life. In 1547 he brought 
out the first edition of Zwingli’s works, himself 
translating into Latin all the hitherto untranslated 
German treatises. He succeeded Bullinger in the 
office of chief citv pastor in 1575. After Regula 
died of the plague (November 14, 1565), he married 
Anna, daughter of Thomas Blarer, formerly burgo- 
master of Constance, Gualther died December 25, 





ZWINGLI’S DAUGHTER REQGULA IN 1549, AT THE AGE OF 25, AND HIS 


GRANDDAUGHTER, AT THE AGE OF 7. 





may Last Yearof/Zwinglis Life: © 361 


1586. With Zwingli’s son Ulrich the male line of 
the Reformer died out. Those at present tracing 
their ancestry to the Reformer’s family do so toa 
brother in Wildhaus. Zwingli had still a fourth 
child, a daughter Anna, born in 1530, who died in 
infancy.’ 

Over the dead Zwingli adherents of the old 
faith and Lutherans poured their vitriol of hatred 
and ignorance.* Even in Zurich there were many 
to curse him as responsible for their sorrows. His 
friends, however, there and in the canton generally 
were in the majority, and they justified his actions 
and defended his memory. Outside of the canton 
of Zurich, in Bern, Basel, and Southern Germany, 
he had many adherents who held him dear and 
were greatly stirred by his death. But even these 
friends did not continue his work. None of them 
pushed the Reformation further on his lines, and in 
theology, whether they had not fully understood 
him, or had been forced into acquiescence, but not 
into real acceptance, by his steady glance, at all 
events, with few exceptions, they rapidly removed 
from his positions, especially regarding the sacra- 
ments. To-day he is, even in Switzerland, a faint 
memory, and thousands of Protestants outside of 
Switzerland do not even know his name. The at- 

1 For these details as to the family see Solomon Hess, Anna Rein- 
hard, Gattin und Wittwe von Ulrich Zwingh Reformator, 2nd ed. 
Zurich, 1820. See his index. 

® See the judgments upon his death by his contemporaries in A. 
Erichson, Zwingh’s Tod und dessen Beurtheilung durch Zeitgenossen, 


Strassburg, 1883. The words of triumph and cursing uttered by 
Lutherans and others were shameful and almost inhuman. 


362 Huldreich Zwingli [1531 


tention he has received from students is compara- 
tively small. There are, however, signs of revival 
of interest in the able and lovable stalwart Swiss, 
sincere Christian, and uncompromising foe to sham 
in religion. The explanation of this neglect lies 
at hand. Five years after Zwingli died there began 
at Geneva the memorable career of John Calvin. 
To him and not to Zwingli, the Reformed Church 
now looks in reverence. From him and not from the 
earlier founder that Church now dates its existence. 
No one can fail to acknowledge that Calvin was the 
greater man, but Zwingli was also highly endowed, 
an equally devoted servant of truth, and a more at- 
tractive personality. All honour to Calvin, the hero 
of the Faith, but all honour, too, to Zwingli, the Re- 
former of German Switzerland. 


SUPPLEMENTARY CHAPTER 


ZWINGL’S THEOLOGY; PHILOSOPHY 
AND © ETHICS 


By FRANK HUGH FOSTER, Pu.D., D.D., 


Professor of Theology, Pacific Theological Seminary, 
Oakland, California 


363 





ZWINGLI'S THEOLOGY, PHILOSO- 
PHY, AND ETHICS 


By FRANK HuGH Foster, Ph.D., D.D., Professor of Theology, 
Pacific Theological Seminary, Oakland, California 


4 hae Protestant Reformation rendered two sepa- 

rate and great services in the realm of thought 
to its age and to the world. One of these was in 
the protest which it delivered against the Roman 
doctrinal system; and the other was in its positive 
contribution to the enrichment and development of 
Christian theology. The Roman idea of human 
merit and its relation to salvation had led to a con- 
ception of grace, of the operation of the sacraments, 
of the atonement and the divine forgiveness, to a sys- 
tem of morals, and to methods of discipline, which 
the adherents of the Protestant faith declared must 
be swept away, with all their practical consequences 
in the conception and the conduct of life, and in 
their stead new conceptions must be introduced. 
But the system of thought was even then defective. 
It was not up to the level of Christian experience. 
It had to be enlarged and perfected. A new doc- 
trine, justification by faith, had to be adjusted to 
the old, and to be supplemented by a group of 


365 


366 Huldreich Zwingli 


other new doctrines which should first bring the sys- 
tem into some degree of completeness. This work 
Protestantism also undertook, and under its able 
leaders in Wittenberg it gave to the Christian world 
the first system of Christian dogmatics which could 
claim to have treated the doctrines of grace with 
anything like the necessary fulness, and to have 
welded them into a consistent whole with the herit- 
age which had come down from the ancient and un- 
corrupted Church. 

To obtain a complete view of Zwingli’s theology, 
both of these elements in the general work of Pro- 
testantism must be brought into the consideration, 
for they are both represented in his labours. With 
the rest of the Reformers he was led to those gen- 
eral positions in respect to the sole mediatorship of 
Jesus Christ, salvation by faith in Him, the helpless- 
ness of man as a sinner, and the authority of the 
Christian congregation in distinction from the pa- 
pacy, which constituted the more direct recoil from 
Rome. In all these doctrines Zwingli showed 
marked independence of view, vigour, and original- 
ity, but in none of them did he render any service 
that could be called especially his own, or bring out 
anything which belongs properly to his contributions 
to the system of developed Protestant doctrine. 
For our present purpose our theme, therefore, ad- 
mits of a limitation. We do not need to pass in 
review every doctrine which Zwingli held, not even 
every one which he wrought out independently, and 
which in another environment would have to be 
reckoned to his most marked service. He was as 


Zwingli’s Theology 367 


clear as Luther upon the doctrine of justification 
by faith, and entirely independent in his method 
of approach to it and in his manner of holding it. 
But as historians we must ascribe that doctrine to 
Luther and not to Zwingli. Luther alone gave it 
to the world and made it the rallying cry of the 
mighty movement. But Zwingli had his own pe- 
culiar field, and to this we must give more especial 
attention. 

A word needs to be said as to the underlying 
philosophy of Zwingli before we enter upon the 
direct consideration of that which is more distinct- 
ively theological. He brought with him to the 
construction of his theology, from the formative and 
educational period of his life, two great currents of 
influence, the one having its origin in the enthusiasm 
for liberal culture nourished by the period of the 
Renaissance, and the other springing from the fount- 
ain of the New Testament Scriptures. The latter 
made his theology biblical and Protestant ; the former 
gave to it its liberal tone. Many individual ideas 
may be traced to a classic origin which might be de- 
nominated not improperly philosophical. Zwingli 
was not without something which may be styled a 
philosophy of avery great type. But it cannot be 
said that his system was dominated by the philo- 
sophy of the ancient or even of the medieval schools. 
He followed a distinct trend of thought upon the 
themes embraced within the scone of philosophy, 
but it is a trend developed in the Christian Church 
and distinctly belonging to theology. It has its, 
roots in the Hebrew religion. It was held by those 


368 Huldreich Zwingli 


writers in the Old Testament who attributed all 


_agency, even that producing evil, to God. Among 


Christian theologians, the first to express it with so 
great emphasis as to associate his own name with 
it was Augustine. Augustinianism has been a 
synonym for stress laid upon the sovereignty of 
God. It was Augustine’s favourite thought that 
““ everything good was either God or from God.”’ 
The same tendency had its representatives in the 
Middle Ages, and among them was Thomas Aquinas. 
It reappeared in the Reformation in Luther’s doc- 
trine of predestination and of the bondage of the 
will, in which, for a purely religious reason, Luther 
affirms in the strongest way the absolute and sole 
causality of God. Inthe year 1520, long before the 
controversy with Erasmus had given occasion toa 
flow of feeling which may seem to have been un- 
favourable to impartial thought, he wrote: “‘I 
would that the word ‘ free-will’’ had never been in- 
vented; neither is it in the Scripture, and might 
better be called self-will, which is of no use.’’? 
Later he derives the sole causality of God from His 
omnipotence, and rejoices in it as in the ground of the 
Christian’s confidence in God, since God thus fore- 
knows everything, and hence proposes and performs 
everything, He can therefore never be defeated. 
‘“ By this thunderbolt,” he says, ‘‘ is cast down and 
ground to powder the freedom of the. will.’’? 
Luther’s doctrine was far more the result of his 
general point of view and of his impressions as to 


1 Werke, Erlangen edition, xxiv., 146, 
2 De Servo Arbitrio, cap. xvii. 


Zwingli’s Theology 369 


the necessary foundation of the doctrines of grace, 
than of any philosophical opinions he held. The 
same is true of Calvin, whose position is too well 
known to require even a mention here. Zwingli 
shared the same atmosphere with these other Re- 
formers, was moved by the same great spiritual 
opposition to Rome, which had practically, if not 
confessedly, taken the opposing view, and hence it 
was natural that he should revert to Augustinianism, 
as they did. And thus we find him, for the most 
part from purely theological interests, upon the side 
of that philosophical doctrine which exalts the 
sovereignty of God. 

It would, therefore, be of little value if we sought 
to trace the system of Zwingli to any distinct philo- 
sophical root. What biblical elements there are in it 
will best appear if we simply follow in the natural line 
of exposition as his system is presented in his prin- 
cipal dogmatic writings. Of these there is an inter- 
esting series brought out by the special exigencies 
of Zwingli’s public life. We need consider only his 
‘* Sixty-Seven Articles,” with the “‘ Explanation ’’ 
of the same,’ the ‘* Christian Introduction ’’ ’ (all of 
the year 1523), the “‘ Commentary on True and 
False Religion” * (1525), the confession of faith pre- 
sented to the Diet of Augsburg (1530) and entitled 
Ratio Fidei,“ the treatise upon ‘* Divine Provid- 
ence’”’ (1530),° and his last important production, 
published posthumously, the ‘‘ Explanation of the 


> 


1Zwingli, Werke, ed. Schuler u. Schulthess, i., 169-424. 

2 Tbid., i., 541-565. 4 Tbid., iv., 1-18. 

3 Jbid., il., 145-325. 5 Tbid., iv., 79-144. 
24 


370 Huldreich Zwingli 


Christian Faith ’’ (1531).’ The earlier of these are 
of great historical interest, and the last is not without 
dogmatic importance; but the central member of 
the group, the elaborate and comprehensive “‘ Com- 
mentary,’ written after his views had attained 
maturity and consistency, must ever remain the 
chief source of information as to his theological 
system, and will be the best starting-point in our 
exposition. 

This work opens with a definition of religion as 
the system which comprises the whole of Christian 
piety, viz., its faith, life, rites, laws, and sacraments. 
As such, it is fundamentally a relation existing be- 
tween God and man, and hence, to understand it, 
the terms between which it exists must be under- 
stood first. Hence the treatise begins with the doc- 
trine of God. We thus meet the first and most 
important peculiarity of the Zwinglian system, the 
prominence given to the doctrine of God, at the 
outset of our study. It is now to be noted that it 
flows naturally out of his conception of religion, 
and that he could scarcely begin at any other great 
doctrine, having once defined religion as he does. 
The Lutheran theology was anthropological in its 
starting-point, and was determined largely by this 
element, in spite of the emphasis laid upon the 
divine causality by Luther, because its absorption 
in the spiritual experience which gave it its birth 
kept the eye fixed upon man rather than upon God. 

Zwingli opens the discussion of the doctrine of 
God by considering His knowability. Although it 


1 Zwingli, Werke, ed. Schuler u. Schulthess, iv., 42-78. 


Zwingli’s Theology 371 


may be above human understanding to know what 
God is, it is not above it to know ¢hat He is. Hence, 
the knowledge of God’s existence is obtained from 
the light of nature; and nature is itself defined, in 
accordance with the tendency to exalt God which 
we are now noting, as ‘‘the continual and perpet- 
ual operation of God and His disposition of all 
things.’’* Thus the heathen have known the exist- 
ence of God and some even His unity, though these 
have been few. But believers advance far beyond 
this. They are such as not only know that there is 
one only omnipotent and true God, but have more 
than a mere knowledge, since they trust in Him 
alone. They thus know in some measure what He 
is, but not from the unaided operation of their own 
faculties or from any merely human instruction 
which they may receive. The Scriptures testify 
that God is a hidden God, and that only the Spirit 
of God possesses knowledge of Him so as to become 
the source of knowledge to human hearts. Hence 
it is deception and false religion to pretend to derive 
the knowledge of God from philosophy. It is pro- 
duced by the power and grace of Him in whom be- 
lievers trust. The only source of the knowledge of 
God, in the full and Christian sense of such a word, 
is, therefore, the “‘mouth of God,’’ by which term 
Zwingli designates the Bible, illuminated to the 
reader by the Spirit in his heart. 

Upon such a basis, the discussion of the nature 
of God must be a purely biblical discussion, and 
Zwingli begins his treatment of this point with a 


1Zwingli, Werke, ed. Schuler u. Schulthess, iii,, 156. 


372 Huldreich Zwingli 


study of Exodus iii., 14: ‘‘ Iam that Iam.’’ This 
is interpreted to mean that God is “* the sole essence 
of all things’’ (solum rerum omnium Esse).' The 
word ‘‘ essence’’ is here to be understood, appar- 
ently, as signifying the true being, the fundamental 
and ultimate reality of all things. Zwingli does not 
intend to identify God with nature in the pantheistic 
fashion, or to anticipate later idealism in what men 
have often attributed to it,—the denial of the exist- 
ence of matter; but it is his design rather to refer 
nature entirely to God as its living energy. Thus 
he declares this to be “‘ first in the knowledge of 
God, that we should know that He is, who is nature, 
who is Himself, and receives His existence from no 
one cises: 

~ But now God not only is and is independent of 
all other existence, but He has a determinate and 
definite existence. ‘‘ That being is as really good 
as He is being.’’* Zwingli thus passes from the 
nature to the attributes of God, at the summit of 
which, as the comprehensive expression of them all, 
he puts goodness. This very comprehensiveness of 
goodness will, however, be seen somewhat to modify 
its meaning. The proof of the goodness of God is 
drawn from the world which He has made. If this 
be ‘‘ good,’’ as the Scriptures declare, then the 
source of the world must Himself be good, and that 
of Himself, since the source of His goodness, truth, 
righteousness, justice, and holiness must be the same 
as the source of his being, viz., His own infinite self. 


'Zwingli, Werke, ed. Schuler u, Schulthess, p. 158. 
® Jbid., p. 159, 8 Joid., p. 159. 


Zwingli’s Theology 373 


We are not, however, to think of the goodness of 
God as of some passive and inactive quality. His 
very nature, as the philosophers say, involves His 
constant activity, since He is the perfect, efficacious, 
and consummating force. Hence, He speaks and 
creation comes into existence. It is thus the pro- 
duct of His power; but it is also permeated by His 
other attributes. His wisdom, knowledge, and 
providence must so pervade all things that there 
shall be nothing that is hidden from Him or that 
fails to obey Him. The proof of this statement 
Zwingli draws from the general idea of His goodness 
(4onum), which is thus shown to embrace more than 
merely moral goodness. It is, in fact, a synonym 
in his mind for perfection, embracing all good, 
natural as well as moral. The argument might be 
summarised thus: God is the sum of all excellence; 
therefore He has this excellence, viz., wisdom. 

It may serve to bring out more clearly the force 
of this argumentation, as well as to give a view of 
Zwingli’s theological style, if we pause here in our 
analysis for a longer quotation. Says Zwingli’: 


“This Good is, therefore, no idle or inactive thing, 
to lie supine and unmoved, neither moving itself nor 
other things, for, a little above, it was evident that it is 
the essence and conservation of all things, which is 
nothing else than that all things are moved, contained, 
and live through it and in it. It itself is called by the 
philosophers évreAéyera nai évépyeta, 7. ¢., perfect, 
efficacious, and consummating power, which, since it is 


1Zwingli, Werke, ed. Schuler u. Schulthess, pp. 159 sg. 


374 Huldreich Zwingli 


perfect, never shall desist, never cease, never waver, but 
continually preserve all things, turn them, rule them, 
that in all things and actions no fault may be able to 
intervene to impede His power or to defeat His counsel. 
Which, again, is manifest by His own word. For thus 
you have it in the beginning of the creation, And God 
said, Let there be light, and there was light. See how 
the light when summoned does not only immediately 
present itself, but, that it may obey the command of its 
creator, is made of nothing. For so great is His power 
that when He calls things which are not, they appear, 
exactly as those things which are, even if they must first 
be born of nothing. . . . Since, therefore, all things 
which either move or live, so live and move as they are 
(for, unless they were, they could not move or live ; but 
what they are, they are in God and through God); it 
may be thence inferred most clearly that God, as He is 
the being and the preservation of all things, is also the 
life and movement of all things which live and move. 
Nor, again, is He the life and movement of all 
things in such a way that either He himself should rashly 
inspire or move them, or that those things which are in- 
spired or moved, should rashly seek of Him that they may 
_live and move. How should they seek this of Him, 
which could not even be, except they were of Him, or 
how could they seek before they were? It follows that 
God is not only, like a kind of material, that from which 
all things “are, by which all things are moved and live ; 
but he is, at the same time, such wisdom, knowledge, and 
providence, that nothing is hidden, unknown, remote, 
and disobedient to it.” 


To resume the course of our analysis, Zwingli de- 
rives all other excellences in God from His supreme 


Zwingli’s Theology 375 


excellence as the highest being. ‘“‘ That only is God 
which is perfect, that is, absolute,’ and to which no- 
thing is lacking, to which also all things are present 
which befit the highest good.’’* Among these 
attributes are God’s foreknowledge and His provid- 
ence, ‘‘upon which topic the whole matter of free- 
will and merit depends.”’ * 

Zwingli now advances to the proof of the bene- 
volence and mercy of God by the following course 
of reasoning: 


“Now, it were vain, fruitless, and useless to mortals if 
this highest Good, God, were wise for Himself alone, as 
is said, if He were goodness, life, motion, knowledge, 
providence for Himself alone ; for thus He would differ 
in no respect from mortals, who have this by their own 
nature, that they sing for themselves, care for their own 
things, prefer themselves to others. It is necessary, 
therefore, that this highest Good, which is God, should 
be by its own nature kind and bountiful, not with that 
bounty with which we wish ourselves to seem to have 
given, sometimes considering reward, sometimes glory, 
but with that by which He wishes to benefit those to 
whom He has given, and considers this solely and alone, 
that those things which have been done by Himself may 
be theirs; for He will be freely drawn upon. For, as 
He is the fountain of all things (for no one merited, 
“Gh Bocisolum deus est quod perfectum est, id est, absolutum et cur 
nihil destt, cuigue omnia adsint gue summum bonum deceant. It 
would be an error to suppose these expressions to have anything in 
common with modern ideas of the ‘‘ Absolute” so much favoured in 
our own country. ‘‘ Absolute” means to Zwingli, as this context 


shows, simply ‘‘ complete,” ‘‘ perfect.” 
*P. 160, 3P, 163. 


376 Huldreich Zwingli 


before He was, that he should be generated of Him), so 
He is perennially bountiful towards those whom He 
begot to this one end, that they should enjoy His bounty. 
In a word, this is the respect in which that Good differs 
from all other things which are called good: these do 
not expend themselves apioOcrt, that is, gratuitously, 
since they are squalid and needy ; that, on the contrary, 
neither will nor can be expended except gratuitously. 
Again, those things which are good in appearance spare 
themselves, for they can satisfy very few, since they are 
limited and mean. But that Good so abounds that it 
surpasses all the desires of all to satiety ; for it is infinite 
and loves to be drawn upon. It cannot itself enjoy other 
things, for they are inferior to it, and except they enjoy 
it, from which they are, they cannot exist at all.’’? 


This, in outline, is his doctrine of God. Passing 
now to the doctrine of man,—the other term of the 
relation which religion was defined to be,—we meet 
with distinct agreement with Augustine, but still 
with marked individuality of conception. Man was 
originally formed in the image of God. He was 
forbidden to eat of a specified tree. Tempted of the 
devil through his wife, he consented and ate, and 
thereby fell, and, in accordance with the threat of 
the law, he died. So far the narrative is one of plain 
facts. In what, now, did this “‘ death’’ consist ? 
It was not a death of the body, for Adam did not. 
die immediately as the law threatened; and yet his 
ultimate physical death was for no other reason than 
for his transgression of the law at thistime. But he 
died in some sense as soon as he ate. The death 


IPOS. 


Zwingli’s Theology ait 


meant by the threatening of the law must therefore 
have been a death of the soul, not of the body. 
What death was it? Zwingli collects the answer 
from Romansv., 12. The death of the soul suffered 
at this time was sin. 

Hence Zwingli comes next to discuss the topic of 
sin. Men are led into sin by desire. We have 
therefore to inquire what desire influenced Adam 
when he fell. It was the desire to be equal with 
God and to know good and evil by his own power. 
Evidently this desire had its origin in self-love. 
This, then, is the root and characteristic of sin. In 
this sin there is a corrupting power which infects 
our whole nature, so that there is a viciosity of na- 
ture (vztzum natur@).' Man has become flesh by the 
fall. Hence he thinks the things of flesh, and this 
makes him an enemy of God. ‘‘ Therefore his mind 
(mens) is bad, and his disposition (auzmus) is bad 
from the beginning of his life.’’* Zwingli uses ]an- 
guage even stronger than this, for he says: ‘‘ They! 
who have been born of one dead are themselves, 
also dead. The dead Adam could not generate one 
free from death,’’ * that is, sin, for death is here to 
be understood of the love of self which is the essence 
of sin. Zwingli is unique among the three great Re- 
formers for the clearness with which he makes the 
fundamental distinction between the corruption of 
our nature and what is properly sin, for he says there 
are two kinds of sin received in evangelical doctrine: 
first the disease (szorbus) which we contract from the 
author of the race by which we are addicted to self- 


Wipe 168, TP LOO: Pe LOgs 


378 Huldreich Zwingli 


love, and the second that which is done contrary to 
the law.’ In the Ratio Fidei he repeatedly makes 
this distinction, and says that the sin derived from 
Adam is only improperly called sin.” Adam was 
brought into the condition of a slave by sin and we 
are born in that condition. Hence death hangs over 
our heads. Thus, while essentially Augustinian, 
Zwingli shows the free spirit of inquiry which will 
carry him still farther towards new views in later 
portions of his system. 

The topic of sin also raises the question of the 
agency of God in its appearance in this world, and 
therefore involves the theologian at once in the dis- 
cussion of His providence and of His wisdom and 
goodness. Zwingli has given us a special treatise 
upon these subjects, to which it will be worth while 
to turn for a little.“ Although written considerably 
later than the ‘‘Commentary,’’ it proceeds to estab- 
lish the doctrine of providence upon the basis of those 
principles as to the essential nature of God which 
have been already drawn out. The title of the first 
chapter contains its doctrine, that “‘ Providence is 
necessary because the highest good necessarily cares 
for and disposes of all things.’’* The course of the 
argument has been substantially sketched above. 
The relation of God’s providence and wisdom is this, 
that the wisdom is the power, and the providence 
the operation of God. It is His ‘‘ constant and un- 
changeable government and administration of all 
things.’’* The entire harmony between God’s 


SIS jo, DORs 31V., 79-144. 
SEV n ps6 9% a Leole 5p. 84. 


Zwingli’s Theology 379 


providence and wisdom is therefore a postulate of 
Zwingli’s thinking. So absolute, however, is God’s 
government of all things that Zwingli now proceeds 
to deny second causes entirely. Nothing material 
can be of itself: it must derive its being from Him 
who alone is all being. “‘ There is nothing which is 
not from Him, in Him, and through Him, yea, He 
Himself.’’* Any single finite force is “‘ called a 
created power because the universal or general power 
is exhibited in a new subject and new form.’’’ If 
finite things truly proceeded from other finite things, 
then these all must also proceed from still other 
finite things like themselves, and so ad infinitum. 
Since God can derive the being He gives them from 
none but Himself, He gives them His own being, 
and hence they are He. They are because they are 
in Him who always is and who is the only true be- 
ing. Thus there is one Cause, and all the rest are 
no more causes than the ambassador of a sovereign 
is the sovereign himself. 

It might be feared lest this entire identification of 
the creature with the Creator might lead to its de- 
gradation in the scale of being, as having no indi- 
viduality or importance in itself. Such is, however, 
not Zwingli’s tendency. All things become of the 
divine species,—not merely man, but even all the 
creation beneath man, although there remains a dis- 
tinction in their nobility and gifts. In fact, the idea 
of God as the essence of all things introduces a new 
view of spheres of life which Christians were apt to 
relegate to the realm of unmingled evil. Zwingli 
UP, 85. 2P. 86. 


380 Huldreich Zwingli 


thus attains a breadth of view which was denied to 
Luther. The heathen who have written holy and 
wise things are cited to sustain Zwingli’s views upon 
the Deity, and this procedure he defends as right 
and proper because, whenever a good or holy thing 
is found in them, it is to be regarded as an emana- 
tion from the divine fountain.’ The conception of 
the all-permeating activity of God is thus a liberal- 
ising element in Zwingli’s conception of the world 
and its worth. 

But does not this view of God’s causality rob man 
of all real being and especially of responsibility ? 
Such had been in Zwingli’s day, as it has ever since, 
a common conclusion, and appeal had been made to 
him to clear up this point. He therefore now pro- 
ceeds to consider man and the divine law.? Man is 
the most remarkable and wonderful being, since he 
is both a heavenly being, as possessing a spirit, 
and an earthly, as clothed in a visible, earthy 
body. The body which is given to him that he 
may be a part of the world over which he rules, is 
nevertheless a source of corruption to him. He is 
like a stream of pure water befouled with a mass of 
clay and thrown into the greatest commotion by 
this disturbing element. Why has God placed man 
in so unfortunate a position ? And why, when he 
falls into sin, which arises from his connection with 
the body, does God punish the spirit, although it is 
the flesh which is the cause inciting to sin ?* Thus 
sharply does Zwingli formulate the ever-recurring 
question as to man’s responsibility. His answer is 


SP 03. High leis CPO 





ZWINGLI’S HELMET, SWORD, AND SO-CALLED BATTLE-AXE, CARRIED BY 
HIM TO THE BATTLE FIELD OF CAPPEL, OCT. 11, 1531, 
NOW IN THE LANDES MUSEUM, ZURICH. 





Zwingli’s Theology 381 


by no means as keen. The soul is punished because 
it has offended against the law.’ But why has God 
given man the law, against which he was sure to 
offend, when He might have left him to ignorance 
and innocence ??. The answer to this is that the law 
is the expression of the essence of God. It is light, 
the expression of the reason and the will of God. 
It is for us a law; for God it is not law but nature 
and essence. Thus from the command to love God 
we learn that the nature of God ts love.’ All that 
He does, therefore, will be according to His nature, 
though He is above the law under which we are 
bound. But the flesh does not understand and 
agree with this law and is led by it necessarily into 
sin. All this results by the knowledge and will of 
God, since He is the sole true cause. How, then, 
can the spirit be punished for what is the operation 
of God Himself? Zwingli’s sole answer to this 
question is that it has sinned against the law.‘ 
This suggests the still sharper formulation of the 
question, Whether God Himself has not sinned in 
the sin of men, because their sin is His own opera- 
tion? To this there are substantially two answers 
in Zwingli: one, the formal one, that God has not 
sinned against the law, because He is above the law 
and cannot sin against it; and, second, the more 
substantial one, that, considered as an act of the 
creature, a certain thing is sin which, considered 
as the act of God, since it is done for other and 
greater reasons, is no sin at all. But what “ other 
and greater reason’ can there be for the introduc- 


UP elO2. > Ibid, DP ALOA: PLO6, 


382 Huldreich Zwingli 


tion of sin into the world by the act of God? 
Zwingli’s answer here is that sin is as necessary to 
holiness as some evil is to all good. Without it holi- 
ness cannot beknown. Hence, God produced sin in 
the world by means of the creature, whose sin 
was wrought by God through the instrumentality 
of the Tempter, for the good of the creature, that is, 
‘* that he might come to a knowledge of righteous- 
ness.”” The goodness of God in it all is the more 
evident in that He provided redemption.’ This line 
of reasoning is more consistent than successful. 
Zwingli passes by a natural transition to the dis- 
cussion of election,’ which he defines as “‘ the free 
determination of the divine will concerning those 
who are to be made blessed.’”’ It is an act of the 
free-will of God in distinction from His mere wisdom. 
In opposition to Thomas Aquinas, Zwingli makes 
election to be independent of all foreknowledge of 
our faith. He had once been inclined to this opin- 
ion of. Aquinas’s, but rejected it because it en- 
dangers God’s goodness and omnipotence, since 
He must have foreseen Judas’s becoming bad, 
and must then be conceived as unable to hinder 
it; and also destroys His sole causality, ascribing 
some reason for His activity to the creature.* Yet 
the other attributes of God, wisdom, love, etc., are 
not unconcerned in election, though it is primarily 
a matter of the will. And faith, which is the con- ° 
dition of justification, is the gift of God and follows 
upon election *; so that election, rather than faith, 
may be said to be the justifying principle. ‘‘ Faith 


1P, 108, Par Ds SPeeUns s Pe rome 


Zwingli’s Theology 383 


follows election as its symbol.”” With such theories, 
Zwingli of course denies the freedom of the will, as 
is evident from innumerable expressions scattered 
here and there through his works, though there is 
no special treatise devoted to this theme. { 

Zwingli’s whole discussion of the topic of sin may 
be sharply criticised as vitiated by arguments which 
are verbal and not material. To say that what is 
wrong to man because against law is not to God 
since He is above law, amounts to but little. But 
Zwingli did not intend to engage in mere logo- 
machy. Law is viewed, it is true, too mechanically 
as an outward standard to which man must conform. 
But he meant, when he said that God must be 
above law, to ascribe to Him a peculiar and glorious 
excellence. It is a fine remark when he says, in 
attempted expression of this thought, that what is 
law to man is to God His own nature and essence.’ 
He illustrates his breadth of view by this distinc- 
tion. The whole treatment of the subject is an 
endeavour to state the facts of the case and make 
them consistent with the theory of God’s operation 
which Zwingli had conceived. The failure lies in 
the impossibility of making such a theory fit the 
facts of human action and responsibility. Zwingli 
was as successful, perhaps, as anyone of his age in 
solving the difficulties which he had the perfect 
candour to acknowledge and to present. 

Zwingli had defined religion as a relation existing 
between God and man.’ Having described the 
terms between which this relation exists, he now 


LS} TOA 2 LN ape ls 5: 


384. Huldreich Zwingli 


returns to discuss religion itself.’ Man, having 
fallen from God, will, if left to himself, never re- 
turn. God in His great mercy now goes out after 
man and exhibits him to himself so that he recog- 
nises his disobedience, loss, and misery, as Adam 
did. Thus He produces despair of himself in man’s 
soul. But God also shows him the divine mercy, 
and this he sees to be so great that he cannot be 
separated from it. He thus comes to trust God, 
treats Him as a parent, adheres to Him. Thus is 
established the relation which is described by the 
term “‘ religion,’’ which is, therefore, entire depend- 
ence upon God. False religion, on the contrary, is 
trusting in anyone else than God, especially in any 
creature. 

All this is general and true of any religion. The 
specifically Christian religion gathers about the per- 
son ROE ee a special 
paragraph to the definition of Christianity.” Christ 
is the certainty and the pledge of the grace of God. 
But how is this grace to be bestowed upon men who 
have wandered from God and will not come to Him, 
since God is just, and justice demands the punish- 
ment of sinners ? God needs to exhibit Himself as 
He is, both just and also merciful and good. To 
this end His justice must be satisfied. But how is 
this to be done? Can man doit? Heistoo sinful 
to correspond to the spotless law of God. Neither. 
have good works in themselves any merit to satisfy 
the justice of God. It remains, therefore, that God 
must provide for such satisfaction, which He has 


7/5 2 Pear. 


Zwingli’s Theology 385 


done by sending His Son incarnate to make satis- 
faction in our behalf. To this end Christ was 
prophesied; miraculously conceived; and born of 
the Virgin Mary (to avoid the stain of original sin); 
suffered all things which were to be inflicted upon 
us in consequence of sin, such as want, cold, and 
every other evil; and especially surrendered Him- 
self to death. ‘*‘ For this was justice, that He, 
through whom we were all created, in whom there 
was nosin, . . . innocently bore those things 
which we had merited by sinning, but which He 
bore in our behalf.” * Zwingli here places himself 
distinctly upon the ground common to the Re- 
formers, that the death of Christ was a sacrificial 
satisfaction of justice in our behalf. The individual 
words and phrases employed by him are clear in 
their implications, such as /zto (to make atonement 
for), expiatio (expiation), ea ferre que nos peccando 
commeruimus (to bear those things which we had 
merited by our sins), redemptionis pretium (price of 
redemption); but there is, further than this, no 
theoretical development of the doctrine. 

In the Christiane Fidet Expositio’ there is a fuller 
treatment of this theme in which, in connection 
with the general style of thought which had been 
prevalent since the days of Anselm, Zwingli presents 
the same conceptions of the work of Christ from a 
slightly different viewpoint. He derives the work 
of atonement from the goodness of God which must 
control in every plan and act. Through goodness 
God clothed His Son in flesh that He might exhibit 


1P, 189. ele 42. 
25 


386 Huldreich Zwingli 


to, and provide for, the world redemption and reno- 
vation. ‘‘ Since His goodness, that is, His justice 
[note this identification], and His mercy are holy, 
that is, firm and immutable, His justice required 
expiation, His mercy pardon, His favour new life.’’ * 
Hence this incarnate Son was made a victim that 
He might placate affronted justice and reconcile it 
with those who did not dare to approach God's face 
in their own innocence, since they were conscious 
of guilt. This was because, though He was merci- 
ful, yet virtue could not bear the repudiation of its 
own work [the law], and justice could not bear im- 
punity. Justice and mercy are, therefore, so min- 
gled that the latter should furnish the victim and the 
former should accept it for the expiation of all sins. 

Such being the central point of the Christian re- 
ligion distinguished from religion in general, Zwingli 
is now prepared to define the Gospel, which he does 
in the words, ‘‘ that in the name of Christ sins are 
remitted.’’* The progress of salvation begins in 
the illumination of God, whereby we come to a 
knowledge of ourselves. Thereupon we fall into 
despair. We flee to the mercy of God, but His 
justice throws us into dismay. Eternal Wisdom 
finds a way whereby it can itself render satisfaction 
to its own justice, a thing which is absolutely im- 
possible for us. God sends His Son to make satis- 
faction for us and become an indubitable security 
for us. But the fruits of this sacrifice become ours 
only upon the condition that we become new creat- 
ures, put on Christ, and so walk. Consequently 


Vea aes 21, 1o2: 


Zwingli's Theology 387 


the whole life of the Christian is a constant repent- 
ance. Here Zwingli pauses to discuss, in sharp 
distinction from the compulsory and hypocritical 
penance of the false Church, the marks of true 
repentance.’ 

Upon this head and several of the following, our 
present purpose does not call us to linger. Zwingli 
maintains, with many a minor peculiarity, the great 
Protestant doctrines upon the law, sin, the keys, 
and the Church. The law he reduces to the funda- 
mental command of love to neighbour as its sub- 
stance and root.* The keys are keys to open, like 
those of a castle, and not to shut, and are the know- 
ledge and ability given to the servants of God to 
lead others unto salvation.” The Church he else- 
where defines more fully as the assembly (concza, 
cetus), by which he means the local assembly of the 
Christian people in any city ortown.* This external 
Church comprises all those who call themselves 
Christians, even though they are not truly such. 
This is not, however, the Church of which mention 
is made in the Apostles’ Creed in the phrase, ‘‘ I 
believe in the Catholic Church.’’ The true spouse 
of Christ, ‘‘ the Catholic Church,”’ is composed of 
those who believe in Christ: it is the communion of 
saints, and is known to God alone. In this dis- 
tinction between the visible and invisible Church 
Zwingli entirely agrees with the other Protestant 
Reformers. He differs, however, somewhat in the 
place he ascribes to the local Church.* This pos- 


SIDS HOO CBS ba ye 
Za 2036 <P226:0a7- 1, 409. bo 226 aya 1 eA OO, 


388 Huldreich Zwingli 


sesses all the powers which are conferred upon the 
Church at large. It may exercise the power of ex- 
communication.’ It also judges its pastors and the 
_ Word preached to it; and yet this is done not by the 
outward Church as such, but by the true spouse of 
Christ which is embosomed in it, since the judg- 
ment is given according to the Word of God in the 
minds of. the faithful. For legislative purposes, 
Zwingli conceives the local Church of any city as 
represented in the government of the city—that is, 
in its board of magistrates. More distinctly indi- 
vidual is the claim which he asserts for the local 
Church to the attribute of infallibility. He puts this 
infallibility in the sharpest opposition to the infalli- 
bility of the Roman Church.” The Roman Church 
errs because it rests upon its own word: the true 
spouse of Christ ‘‘cannot err’’ because it “‘relies 
upon the word of God alone.’’* The source of 
this infallibility is the fact that the Church does 
not propose to set up anything of its own accord, 
but simply listens to the word of God and accepts 
what it finds there. Its infallibility is, therefore, the 
infallibility of the word of God, and Zwingli’s doc- 
trine of the infallibility of the local Church is like 
that of the other Protestant leaders as to the “‘ per- 
spicuity of the Scriptures.’’ The Scriptures are 
plain in the great outlines of the way of salvation, 
so that no one who trusts himself to them will fail 
of eternal life; and the infallibility of the Church is 
such that when, in the exercise of her God-given 
authority, she tries to find out God’s will in the 


sll Ula uz ee *P, Le8i ay. 1 408.9470: S PMTs: 


Zwingli’s Theology 389 


great matters of salvation, she will be infallibly led 
into the knowledge of it. 

The discussions of the ‘“‘Commentary,’’ as we have 
thus followed them, have been of the greatest im- 
portance to the establishment of a sound and com- 
prehensive theology, but they have been defective 
‘in many respects and have had little in them upon 
which Zwingli’s distinctive fame as a theologian 
could rest. They were defective, for example, in 
omitting all formal discussion of the doctrine of the 
Trinity, though there are many passages in which 
the substance of the doctrine is well expressed.’ 
Doubtless Zwingli did not intend to traverse the 
ground where he agreed substantially with the 
ancient, and even with the Roman Church. Luther 
and his friends misunderstood this reticence and 
thought Zwingli a denier of the unmentioned doc- 
trines, though Melanchthon’s silence in the earlier 
editons of the Zocz upon the same points, and his 
expression of some degree of contempt for such 
studies, might have led to worse conclusions as to 
his orthodoxy. But we now come into the region 
in which the great contest between Luther and 
Zwingli was waged, and in which Zwingli made an 
advance upon all his contemporaries, — to the doc- 
trine of the Sacraments. 

In this discussion the ‘‘Commentary ”’ was the first 
production of Zwingli’s by which he was willing to 
stand. He expressly says that his previous treat- 
ment of the theme in the Sixty-seven Articles was 
written for the times rather than to declare the whole 


Lee oil 250. 


390 Huldreich Zwingli 

truth, ‘‘ that he might not cast pearls before swine.’’ * 
The ‘‘Commentary ”’ represents his matured views, 
and although he wrote much afterwards in his contro- 
versy with Luther, the history of which has already 
been elsewhere detailed,* he added nothing and 
modified nothing of any importance to the under- 
standing of his theological system. 

He begins by mentioning three views,’ all of 
which he rejects, viz.: (1) That the sacrament is 
something which by its own power liberates the 
conscience from sin [the magical theory of the sac- 
raments]; (2) that it is a sign upon the performance 
of which the thing signified is internally performed; 
(3) that it is a sign given for the purpose of render- 
ing him who receives it certain that that which is 
signified by the sacrament has already been per- 
formed. In opposition to these he defines his own 
view. It is that the sacrament is a dedication and 
a consecration (zuztio et oppignoratio) and a public 
setting of the person apart (publica consignatio). 

“ Having been initiated, a man must do that which 
the function, order, or institute with which he has 
connected himself demands.’’* It follows at once 
from this conception that the sacrament has no 
power to liberate the conscience. God alone can 
cleanse the soul. The first of the above theories 
is thus disposed of. As for the second, if the . 
cleansing be performed, the subject is conscious of 
‘it, for it is done by the inward act of faith; and 
‘faith must be conscious. Zwingli’s great purposé 


Ds 2 3015G: STIL, 228% 
*See Chapter XIV and Index. £P. 220; 


Zwingli’s Theology 391 


in opposing Luther’s doctrine as well as that of 
Rome comes here into view. It was to rescue the 
true character of faith. In reply to the third he 
says, that for the same reason one does not need a 
pledge that the cleansing has already been per- 
formed. If it has, he knows it, and that is enough. 
The great gift of God is thus, in Zwingli’s mind, a 
matter of experience. Hesometimes makes it iden- 
tical with faith, this being, upon one side, a conscious 
act, and upon the other, the sum and substance of 
the life into which the Christian is ushered through 
forgiveness. He lives a life of faith—that is, faith 
may designate his highest experiences. And this 
faith, he says over and over again, is a fact, an ex- 
perience, not a mere matter of intellectual knowledge 
and imagination, or a mere opinion. It is trust in 
Christ, a new direction of the purposes and affections 
of the man, a wholly internal operation of the soul 
itself; and it is therefore produced not by external 
means, which can produce only external changes, 
but by the Holy Spirit. Neither is the Holy Spirit 
bound to external means or limited by them. The 


object of faith, likewise, is always Christ or God as | 


revealed in Christ, and it can therefore have no 
material thing, like the body of Christ, or the nature 
of the elements in the sacrament of the altar, for its 
proper object. Whether the elements of the sacra- 


ment are bread and wine or the real body and blood | 


of the Lord is a question for the determination of 


the mind by means of sensation and perception, not | 


for faith, which has nothing to do with such ob- 
jects. When the theologians of the Roman Church 


392 ~ Huldreich Zwingli 


say, ‘‘ We delieve that we perceive the real body and 
blood of the Lord at the altar,’’ they utterly con- 
found faith with what is totally different. Zwingli 
also objects to Luther’s view as obscuring the nature 
of faith and as confounding its object.’ 

This effort of Zwingli in behalf of a consistent 
definition of faith may well be counted as among: 
his most important contributions to the cause of 
evangelical truth. That faith is a spiritual process, 
produced by spiritual means, is a far-reaching prin- 
ciple of the utmost importance. Muchas Protestant 
theology has insisted upon faith, it has long been 
obscure in defining it. Could Zwingli’s fundamental 
ideas have been fully received, that faith is an act 
of self-comiittal, that it is a spiritual process of the 
soul, that it is conscious, and that it is the eternal 
life which Christ promised, already in exercise and 
possession, then long and gloomy chapters in the 
history of Reformed Theology, in which the story 
of spiritual paralysis in consequence of ignorance of 
the way of salvation and positive misrepresentation 
of the gift of divine forgiveness, might have been 
spared the world. Even the theologian, evangelist, 
and saint, Jonathan Edwards, could say to an in- 
quirer: 


“You must not think much of your pains, and of 
the length of time; you must press towards the king- 
dom of God, and do your utmost, and hold out to the 
end ; and learn to make no account of it when you have 
done. You must undertake the business of seeking sal- 


NITES; 248, 


Zwingli's Theology 393 


vation upon these terms and with no other expectation 
than this, that zf ever God bestows mercy, it will be in 
His own time, and not only so, but also, when you have 
done all, God will not hold Himself obliged to show you 
mercy at last.””’ 


But Zwingli would never have written such a trav- 
esty of the Gospel, and Zwingli’s clearness and 
breadth would have spared generations of Calvinists, 
before Edwards and after him, from the necessity 
of consequent darkness and pain. 

In accordance with this general view of the sacra- 
ments Zwingli defines the first sacrament which he 
discusses, which is baptism,? matrimony being ex- 
cluded from the number of true sacraments. Bapt- 
ism is not a sacrament which conveys the grace 
which it signifies. To John the Baptist it was an 
essential part of his teaching. It said as by a visible 
word that, as one bathed comes forth from the bath 
cleansed, so they that are baptised ought to put off 
the old life of sin and begin a new life. It also 
pledged them to this. Such baptism is to be dis- 
tinguished from the baptism of the Holy Spirit, 
which is of two sorts: an inward baptism, which is 
equivalent to the creation of true faith, and an out- 
ward, such as that through which the Apostles spoke 
with tongues. In our day, not all receive the latter 
baptism, but all who are truly religious have become 
so through the illumination and drawing of the Holy 
Spirit. There is, however, no distinction between 
the baptism of John and that of Christ. Christ did 


1 Works, Dwight edition, v., 467. 2iP232e 


304 Huldreich Zwingli 


not demand a new baptism of His disciples when 
they had once been baptised by John, nor is the 
purpose of the two baptisms different. Both 
preached ,repentance, and both baptised with the 
same purpose. Christian baptism is baptism into 
the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy 
Spirit, by which they who formerly served the 
Devil now consecrate themselves to the Father, 
Son, and Spirit.’ 

In the special treatise upon “‘ Baptism, Re-Bap- 
tism, and Infant Baptism’’* the same general views 
reappear. Baptism is a sign that obligates the one 
baptised to the Lord Jesus, but salvation is not de- 
pendent upon it. It cannot wash away sins. It is 
not necessary to rebaptise those who were baptised 
in the Roman Church, because infant baptism is 
itself valid and because we may be reasonably cer- 
tain of our baptism, since there are numerous wit- 
nesses of it. And then baptism is essentially a 
single act, not to be repeated. The validity of in- 
fant baptism rests upon the analogy of circumcision, 
and is equally proper with that as a sign to hold 
children to their duty to God. Infant baptism 
probably began in the time of Christ, for there is 
nothing against it in the New Testament, and much 
that may be cited for it. Indeed, the children of 
Christians, as standing under the covenant of God 

1In his De Providentia Dei (iv., 125), Zwingli says: ‘‘ Since all 
the elect were elected before the establishment of the world, and the 
infants of the faithful are of the Church, there is no doubt that when 
these infants die they are received into the number of the blessed 


according to election, which the Apostle says remains sure.” 
? German, of the year 1525, Werke, ii., 1. 230 sqq. 


Zwingli’s Theology 395 


with His people, and as the children of God, ought 
to be baptised. 
In regard to the Lord’s Supper, Zwingli defines 
it, with special reference to the Greek word euchar- 
ast, as a thanksgiving, a festival of thanksgiving 
among those who proclaim the death of Christ. It 
involves also the element of self-consecration, and is | 
an act more for the community of Christians before 
whom the communicant professes thus his faith in 
Christ than for the communicant himself. Hence 
Zwingli came to the view that its nature is that of a 
symbol, and he adopted the tropical interpretation 
of the word “‘ is’’ in the words of institution, ‘‘ This 
is my body,’’ paraphrasing it, ‘* This represents my 
body,’’ thus sweeping away at once the whole the- 
ory of what has been called consubstantiation, as , 
well as transubstantiation.* 
The following year after the appearance of the 
““Commentary,’’ Luther began the series of contro- 
versial writings which were interchanged between 
himself and Zwingli, and from that time until the 
Marburg Colloquy in 1529 the pen of neither of them 
had very long repose. Zwingli developed his views 
with great acuteness and dialectic skill, but he added 
little to their substance. The Colloquy brought him 
neither instruction nor change. It was more evident 
there, however, what was the fundamental question 
at issue, and this was, in a word, the spirituality of 
religion. Zwingli, in accordance with the natural 
consequences of the emphasis which he laid upon 
the sole causality of God, maintained the freedom 


T EPS. 25 3% 


396 Huldreich Zwingli 


of the Spirit of God in his converting operations, 
and exhibited a surprising breadth of view, embrac- 
ing within the gracious operations of God even 
noted cases of moral excellence among the heathen, 
like Socrates." Luther, influenced excessively by 
the historical tendencies of the Roman Church, was 
inclined to emphasise the necessity of the means, 
and to restrict the operations of the Spirit to those 
to whom the Word was preached and the sacraments 
administered. To him the Gospel appeared to be 
evacuated of its power and rendered superfluous if 
such men as Socrates, who had never received it, 
could nevertheless be saved. With all his large- 
heartedness, Luther was seriously limited in his 
horizon. In Zwingli there appeared the tendency 
which has been characteristic of the Reformed The- 
ology ever since—the tendency to ascribe perfect 
reasonableness to the doctrines of the Gospel and to 
interpret the Scriptures largely upon the supposition 
that they must be reasonable, while yet yielding to 
them the cordial assent of simple faith in regions 
where evidently they speak above human compre- 
hension. 

Discussions upon the sacrament, inasmuch as they - 
had to do with the human Christ, naturally led, 
both in Luther’s and in Zwingli’s case, to further 
consideration of the subject of Christology. With 
Luther, this developed in the period before Mar- 
burg into discussions of the eternal pre-existence of 
Christ’s body, and into the doctrine of the “ Commun- 
ication of Properties’’ (communicatio idiomatum), 


Zwingli’s Theology. 397 


whereby each nature was supposed to communicate 
to the other its peculiar properties, while at the 
same time it did not itself cease to be what it was. 
Luther subsequently developed this doctrine still 
farther and involved himself in difficulties both con- 
scious and unconscious. Zwingli remained rather 
upon the ground of the simple doctrine of Chalce- 
don: that there are two natures, human and divine, 
each perfect and entire, that they are not con- 
founded, and that each remains what it is according 
to its own character. His phraseology shows in 
many places a tendency to that balancing of the 
two natures over against one another which is char- 
acteristic of the creed of Chalcedon.’ He sought to 
explain the phenomena of the Scriptures upon 
which Luther had based his communication of prop- 
erties by means of the adANotwors, or transference. 
This takes place when “‘ one names one of the two 
natures and understands the other; or names that 
which they both are and understands nevertheless 
only one of the two.’’* This is enough, he thinks, 
to explain the whole of the matter. With him, as 
with the ancient theologians, the divine Logos is 
the personalising principle of the Christ. But into 
further efforts to clear up the mystery of the nature 
of Christ, he does not go. His strength in this di- 
rection seems to be consumed by the many efforts 
he makes to exhibit the inconsistencies and absurd- 
ities of Luther’s ideas and to win him to a simpler 
theory of the Eucharist. 

With this theme is naturally connected the doc- 


WT Vere LOL ating 2607: aT. OS. 


398 Huldreich Zwingli 


trine of the work of Christ, upon which Zwingli 
often lets fall incidental remarks in passing and 
which he treats more at length in the /zdez Chris- 
tiane Expositio.. In these scattering remarks the 
various points which needed emphasizing against 
the papal corruptions of the day are brought out 
fully and cogently. The fact that the death of 
Christ is the only meritorious cause of our salvation 
against the doctrine of good works, His sole medi- 
atorship between God and man, His death as the 
great exhibition of God's love towards men, the re- 
demption of men from death and the devil, the 
perfect revelation through Him of the will of God, 
are thus incidentally developed. 

Zwingli’s theology, as thus sketched by him, is in 
substantial agreement with that of the other Re- 
formers both Lutheran and Calvinistic. It sub- 
sequently admitted without difficulty the practical 
union of the German with the French Swiss in doc- 
trine and practice. At Marburg he was able with- 
out difficulty to subscribe a statement of doctrine 
drawn up by Luther, with whom his only great 
difference was that upon the nature of the sacra- 
ment of the Lord’s Supper. He was, however, 
decidedly marked by the freer and broader spirit 
of the humanistic circles. Luther was a man of 
greater heart, of a profounder emotional nature, 
and of a more vivid experience of the great life 
forces of Christianity. He seized upon the truth 
by intuition and defended it with stormy and violent 
eagerness. He was but to a small degree capable 


Vie A757 


Zwinglis Theology. 399 


of putting himself in the place of an antagonist, 
estimating him correctly, and meeting him success- 
fully. He often refused to read his adversaries’ 
writings. Zwingli was clearer, keener, calmer, in- 
formed himself accurately upon the subjects which 
he would discuss, and debated them with more 
comprehensiveness. Above all, he was broader in 
his view of things in general, as he was to a larger 
degree a man of affairs. He could ascribe merit to 
those with whom he disagreed, and could embrace 
even the pagan world in his scheme of the universe. 
Luther denied the freedom of the will to emphasise 
the certainty of salvation from God. Zwingli de- 
nied it to emphasise God’s causality. Luther thus 
looked upon man as so sinful in his enslaved condi- 
tion that there was no hope for him aside from the 
established means of grace. Zwingli saw the opera- 
tion of God in all the world and hoped for the 
operation of grace beyond the bounds of the Church. 
This freer spirit Zwingli handed down to the Re- 
formed theology; and though it was often eclipsed 
by other elements, it has not been without its con- 
tinuous influence to the present day. 

Zwingli’s ethics received no systematic develop- 
ment at his hand with the single exception of the 
treatise written in 1523 upon the “‘ Education of 
Noble Youths,’’ * and here only in connection with 
the general subject of education. The whole theme 
is discussed from a Christian standpoint, the object 
of the education which Zwingli describes being to 
develop the highest type of Christian manhood. 


1TV., 148 sgg. See this volume, pp. 211, sg. 


400 Huldreich. Zwingli 


Education begins, therefore, in the knowledge of 
God, whose nature as manifested in creation and 
providence is to be taught the youth. The effort is 
here to be made to lead the young man from a 
knowledge of his sins to the knowledge of the Re- 
deemer and to the living and personal apprehension 
of the way of salvation. Upon the basis of such a 
religious change in the soul, the teacher is to seek 
to form a blameless life. To this end he is to incul- 
cate constant acquaintance with the Word of God. 
To this, the knowledge of languages is necessary, 
and here Zwingli warns against temptations to use 
superior knowledge as a means of gratifying wan- 
tonness, ambition, love of power, deceitfulness, 
vain philosophy, etc. On the contrary, the youth 
must be instructed in the duty of modesty and 
reticence in discourse, propriety and conformity to 
usage in the choice of words, in gesture, and deliv- 
ery; in temperance and simplicity in the reception 
of food and drink and in clothing and personal 
adornment ; in chastity and self-control in his rela- 
tions with the female sex. He is especially to be 
warned against the desire of money and fame, and 
is to be taught to imitate Christ in all these things. 
He may learn fencing, but only so far as is neces- 
sary to the defence of the fatherland. Especially is 
idleness to be avoided, and no one is to be received 
into the citizenship of the state who has not a trade 
by which he can earn his own living. The law of 
love to our neighbour is to be impressed and en- 
forced. It demands a true, inner sympathy and 
participation in the lot of others, whether joy or 


Zwingli’s Theology. 401 


sorrow. This leads to a discussion of social rela- 
tions with our fellow men; and while festivals and 
parties are not forbidden, they are to be enjoyed 
with moderation. Obedience to parents is to be 
insisted upon. Self-control, as of the temper, is to 
be sought. Games may be played, but not those 
which furnish no exercise for the mind, like dice 
and cards. In all things should genuineness and 
love control the conduct towards one’s fellow men. 
““It is the work of a Christian not to be able to 
utter great things upon the dogmas, but to render 
great and weighty services, by the help of God.’’’ 

In this brief outline we get the general conception 
of a Christian life which Zwingli had. Without 
asceticism or undue severity, it was to be a sober, 
God-fearing, earnest, and useful life. 


1TV., 158. 
26 





APPENDIX 


403 


CONCERNING CHOICE AND LIBERTY RE- 
SPECTING FOOD—CONCERNING OFFENCE 
AND VEXATION— WHETHER ANYONE 
HAS POWER TO FORBID FOODS AT CER- 
TAIN TIMES—OPINION OF HULDREICH 
ZWINGLI, SET FORTH FROM THE PULPIT 
AT ZURICH, IN THE YEAR 1522. 


To all pious Christians at Zurich, I, Huldrych Zwin- 
gli, a simple herald of the Gospel of Christ Jesus, wish 
the grace, mercy and peace of God. 





Eile Beloved in God, after you have heard so 
eagerly the Gospel and the teachings of the holy 
Apostles now for the fourth year, teachings which Al- 
mighty God has been merciful enough to publish to you 
through my weak efforts, the majority of you, thank 
God, have been greatly fired with the love of God and 
of your neighbour. You have also begun faithfully to 
embrace and to take unto yourselves the teachings of 
the Gospel and the liberty which they give, so that after 
you have tried and tasted the sweetness of the heavenly 
1 Werke, ed. Schuler und Schulthess, I. 1-29. (From the German 
by Lawrence A. McLouth, Professor of German, New York Uni- 
versity. The first published defence of Zwingli’s reformatory ideas. 
The quotations are in general conformed to the Authorised Version, 
which more closely represents the text Zwingli used than the text 
underlying the Revised Version. 
404 


"LESL “LL “LOO ‘13BddVO 4O 3TLLVI SHL NI H1V3d SIH JO 3LIS SHL NO IVINON3N SiITONIMZ 








Appendix 405 


bread by which man lives, no other food has since been 
able to please you. And, as when the children of Israel 
were led out of Egypt, at first impatient and unaccus- 
tomed to the hard journey, they sometimes in vexation 
wished themselves back in Egypt, with the food left 
there, such as garlic, onions, leeks and flesh-pots, they 
still entirely forgot such complaints when they had come 
into the promised land and had tasted its luscious fruits: 
thus also some among us leapt and jumped unseemly at 
the first spurring — as still some do now, who like a horse 
neither are able nor ought to rid themselves of the spur 
of the Gospel ;— still, in time they have become so 
tractable and so accustomed to the salt and good fruit 
of the Gospel, which they find abundantly in it, that 
they not only avoid the former darkness, labour, food and 
yoke of Egypt, but also are vexed with all brothers, 
. that is, Christians, wherever they do not venture to make 
free use of Christian liberty. And in order to show 
this, some have issued German poems, some have en- 
tered into friendly talks and discussions in public rooms 
and at gatherings ; some now at last during this fast— 
and it was their opinion that no one else could be 
offended by it — at home, and when they were together, 
have eaten meat, eggs, cheese, and other food hitherto 
unused in fasts. But this opinion of theirs was wrong ; 
for some were offended, and that, too, from simple good 
intentions ; and others, not from love of God or of His 
commands (as far as I can judge), but that they might re- 
ject that which teaches and warns common men, and 
they that might not agree with their opinions, acted as 
though they were injured and offended, in order that 
they might increase the discord. The third part of the 
hypocrites of a false spirit did the same, and secretly 
excited the civil authorities, saying that such things 


406 Huldreich Zwingli . 


neither should nor would be allowed, that it would destroy 
the fasts, just as though they never could fast, if the 
poor labourer, at this time of spring, having to bear most 
heavily the burden and heat of the day, ate such food 
for the support of his body and on account of his work. 
Indeed, all these have so troubled the matter and made 
it worse, that the honourable Council of our city was 
obliged to attend to the matter. And when the pre- 
viously mentioned evangelically instructed people found 
that they were likely to be punished, it was their pur- 
pose to protect themselves by means of the Scriptures, 
which, however, not one of the Council had been wise 
enough to understand, so that he could accept or reject 
them. What should I do, as one to whom the care of 
souls and the Gospel have been entrusted, except search 
the Scriptures, particularly again, and bring them as a 
light into this darkness of error, so that no one, from 
ignorance or lack of recognition, injuring or attacking 
another come into great regret, especially since those 
who eat are not triflers or clowns, but honest folk and of 
good conscience? Wherefore, it would stand very evil 
with me, that I, as a careless shepherd and one only for 
the sake of selfish gain, should treat the sheep entrusted 
to my care, so that I did not strengthen the weak and 
protect the strong. I have therefore made a sermon 
about the choice or difference of food, in which sermon 
nothing but the Holy Gospels and the teachings of the 
Apostles have been used, which greatly delighted the 
majority and emancipated them. But those, whose mind 
and conscience is defiled,as Paul says[ Titus, i., 15], it only 
made mad. But since I have used only the above-men- 
tioned Scriptures, and since those people cry out none the 
less unfairly, so loud that their cries are heard elsewhere, 
and since they that hear are vexed on account of their 


Appendix 407 


simplicity and ignorance of the matter, it seems to me 
to be necessary to explain the thing from the Scriptures, 
so that everyone depending on the Divine Scriptures 
may maintain himself against the enemies of the Script- 
ures. Wherefore, read and understand ; open the eyes 
and the ears of the heart, and hear and see what the 
Spirit of God says to us. 

Firstly, Christ says, Matthew, xv., 17, what goes in at 
the mouth defileth not the man, etc. From these words 
anyone can see that no food can defile a man, providing 
it is taken in moderation and thankfulness. That this is 
the meaning, is showed by the fact that the Pharisees be- 
came vexed and angry at the word as it stands, because 
according to Jewish law they took great account of the 
choice of food and abstinence, all of which regulations 
Christ desired to do away with in the New Testament. 
These words of Christ, Mark speaks still more clearly, 
vil, 15: ‘There is nothing from without a man, that 
entering into him can defile him ; but the things which 
come out from him, those are they that defile the man.” 
So the meaning of Christ is, all foods are alike as far as 
defilement goes: they cannot defile at all. 

Secondly, as it is written in the Acts of the Apostles, 
x., 10, when Peter was in Joppa (now called Japhet), he 
went one day upon the housetop at the sixth hour, and 
desired to pray. He became hungry and wished to eat ; 
and when the servants were making ready, he fell into a 
trance and saw heaven opened and a vessel descending as 
it were a great linen cloth held together by the four cor- 
ners and let down upon earth, in which cloth were all four- 
footed animals, wild beasts, and creeping and flying 
creatures, Then a voice spoke to him, saying: “ Arise, 
Peter, kill and eat.” But Peter said, “ No, Lord, for I 
have never eaten forbidden or unclean food.” Then 


408 Huldreich Zwingh 


again the voice spoke to him, saying: ‘“ What God has 
purified, shalt thou not consider forbidden or-unclean.” 
Now, God has made all things clean, and has not forbid- 
den us to eat, as His very next words prove. Why do 
we burden ourselves wilfully with fasts? Here answer 
might be made: This miracle, shown to Peter, meant 
that he should not avoid the heathen, but them also 
should he call to the grace of the Gospel, and therefore 
material food should not be understood here. Answer : 
All miracles that God has performed, although symbol- 
ical in meaning, were still real occurrences and events. 
As when Moses struck the rock with his staff and it gave 
forth water, it was symbolical of the true Rock of Christ, 
from which flowed, and ever shall flow for us all, the for- 
giveness of sins and the blessings of heavenly gifts, but 
none the less was the rock really smitten and gave forth 
water. And so here, although this miracle was symboli- 
cal, still the words of God’s voice are clear: What God 
hath cleansed, shalt thou not consider unclean. Until I 
forget these words I shall use them. 

Thirdly, Paul writes to the Corinthians, (I., vi., 12) : 
“All things are lawful unto me, but all things are not 
expedient: all things are lawful for me, but I will not 
be brought under the power of any. Meats for the belly 
and the belly for meats: but God shall destroy both it 
and them.” That is, to me are all things free, although 
some things are rather to be avoided, in case they offend 
my neighbour too much. (About the troubling of one’s 
neighbour, I shall speak specially later on.) And there- 
fore no one can take from me my freedom and bring me 
under his authority. Food is taken into the belly to 
sustain life. As now the belly and the food are both 
to be destroyed, it makes no difference what one eats or 
wherewith one nourishes his mortal body, 


Appendix 409 


Fourthly, Paul says, I. Corinthians, viii, 8: “ But 
meat commendeth us not to God : for neither, if we eat, 
are we the better ; nor, if we eat not, are we the worse.” 
This word Paul speaks of the food which was offered to 
the idols, not now of daily food. Notice this, however, 
to a clearer understanding. At the time when Paul wrote 
the epistle, there were still many unbelievers, more in- 
deed, it seems to me, than Christians. These unbelievers 
offered to their idols, according to custom, animals, such 
as Calves, sheep and also other forms of food ; but at these 
same offerings, a great part, often all, was given to eat to 
those that made the offerings. And as unbelievers and 
Christians lived together, the Christians were often in- 
vited to partake of food or meat, that had been sacrificed 
to the honor of the idols. Then some of the Christians 
were of the opinion, that it was not proper to eat this 
food ; but others thought that, if they ate the food of the 
idols, but did not believe in them, such food could not 
harm them, and thought themselves stronger in their be- 
lief, because they had been free to do this thing, than 
those who from faint-heartedness and hesitation did not 
venture to eat all kinds of food. To settle this differ- 
ence, Paul:uses the above words: “No kind of food 
commends us to God.” Even if one eats the food of the 
idols, he is not less worthy before God, nor yet more 
worthy, than one who does not eat it ; and whoever does 
not eat it is no better. Indeed that will seem very 
strange to you, not only that meat is not forbidden, but 
also that even what has been offered to idols a Christian 
may eat. 

Fifthly, Paul says in the First Epistle to the Corinthi- 
ans, x., 25: ‘‘ Whatsoever is sold in the shambles, that 
eat, asking’ no questions for conscience sake.” These 
words are clear and need no explanation, except that 


410 Huldreich Zwingli 


they are among other words about the offence caused by 
the food of idols. But do not let yourself err. From 
the pulpit I shall speak sufficiently of giving offence, and 
perhaps more clearly than you have ever heard. 

Sixthly, Paul also says, Colossians, ii, 16: “No man 
shall judge you in meat or in drink, or in respect of a 
holy day.” Again you hear that you are to judge no 
man either as good or bad from his food or drink ; he 
may eat what he please. If one will, let him eat refuse. 
Here it should be always understood that we are speak- 
ing not of amount but of kind. As far as kind and char- 
acter of food are concerned, we may eat all foods to 
satisfy the needs of life, but not with immoderation or 
greediness. 

Seventhly, Paul says again, I. Timothy, iv.,1: “ Now 
the Spirit speaketh expressly, that in the latter times 
some shall depart from the faith, giving heed to seducing 
spirits, and doctrines of devils ; speaking lies in hypoc- 
risy ; having their consciences seared with a hot iron ; 
forbidding to marry and commanding to abstain from 
meats, which God hath created to be received with 
thanksgiving of them which believe and know the truth. 
For every creature of God is good, and nothing to be 
refused, if it be received with thanksgiving: for it is 
sanctified by the word of God and of prayer.” These 
are all the words of Paul. And what could be more 
clearly said? He says that God’s Spirit spoke this as a 
warning, that they might withstand this, who had no 
fixed strong belief, and who did not put trust in God, but: 
in their own works which they themselves chose as good. 
And that such things are placed in them by seducing 
spirits and devils, that inspire men with hypocrisy, that 
is, with the outward form, lead men away frem trust in 
God to confidence in themselves. And yet the same 


Appendix 4Il 


will always surely realise in themselves, that they act 
dishonourably toward God, and they always feel the pain 
of it, and know their disgraceful unfaithfulness in that 
they see only their own advantage or desire and greed 
of heart. Still they are willing to sell themselves, as 
though they did it not for their own sakes, but for 
God’s. That is having a conscience branded on the cheek. 
Then he recounts what they will forbid to do as bad: 
They shall not enter into marriage or wed. Know too 
that purity so disgracefully preserved had its original 
prohibition from the devil, which prohibition has brought 
more sin into the world than the abstinence from any 
food. But this is not the place to speak of that. Like- 
wise it is forbidden that one should eat this or that food, 
which God created for the good and sustenance of men. 
Look, what does Paul say ? Those that take from Christ- 
ians such freedom by their prohibition are inspired by 
the devil. “ Would I do that?” said the wolf, as the raven 
sat on the sow’s body. Now God placed all things un- 
der man at the head of creation, that man might serve 
Him alone. And although certain foods are forbidden 
in the Old Testament, they are on the contrary made 
free in the New, as the words of Mark, vil., 15, clearly 
show, quoted in the first article above, as also Luke, 
xvi, 15. “For that which is highly esteemed among 
men is an abomination in the sight of God.” The law 
and the prophets were only a symbol, or have lasted 
only to John. Hear now, that which seemed great to 
men was detested by God (the word is abominatio), and 
as far as the law is ceremonial and to be used at court, 
it has been superseded. Hear then that whatever a man 
eats cannot make him evil, if it is eaten in thankfulness. 
Notice that proper thankfulness consists in this, that a 
man firmly believe that all our food and living are 


412 Huldreich Zwingli 


determined and continued by God alone, and that a man 
be grateful for it ; for we are more worthy in the sight of 
God than the fowls of the air which He feeds: us then 
without doubt He will feed. But the greatest thanks is a 
conscientious recognition that all our necessities are pro- 
vided by Him. Of these words nothing further. 
Eighthly, after Paul shows Titus (i., 10) that there are 
many disobedient, many vain talkers and deceivers, 
which one must overcome, headds: “ Unto the pure all 
things are pure: but unto them that are defiled and unbe- 
lieving is nothing pure; but even their mind and con- 
science is defiled.” Here you see again he did not desire 
Jewish wiles heeded ; this is plainly shown by the words 
next preceding, where he says: “‘ Wherefore rebuke and 
punish them sharply (of course, with words), that they 
may be sound in the faith, not listening to Jewish fables 
and human commandments, that pervert the truth.” But 
they desired to draw the new Christians into abstinence 
from food, pretending that some food was unclean and 
improper to eat; but Paul showed that they were wrong, 
and said: ‘To those of a pure belief, all things are pure, 
but to the unbelievers nothing is pure. Cause: their 
hearts and consciences are defiled. They are unbelievers 
that think the salvation, mercy and freedom of Christ are 
not so great and broad as they really are, as Christ chid 
His disciples, saying that they were of little faith, Mat- 
thew, xvi., 8, and vi., 30. In these passages we are cer- 
tainly taught that we are not only fed each day by Him, 
but also controlled and instructed with fatherly fidelity, 
if we console ourselves confidently alone in His word 
and commands. Wherefore every Christian should de- 
pend alone upon Him and believe His words steadfastly. 
Now, if you do that, then you will not believe that any 
food can defile a man; and if you surely believe it, then 


Appendix 413 


it is surely so, for His words cannot deceive. Accord- 
ingly all things are pure to you. Why? You believe, 
therefore all things are pure to you. The unbeliever is 
impure. Why? He has a doubting heart, which either 
does not believe the greatness and freedom of God’s 
mercy or does not believe these to be as great as they 
are. Therefore he doubts, and as soon as he doubts, he 
sins, according to Romans, xiv., 23. 

Ninthly, Paul says to the Hebrews, xili.,9: “Be 
not carried about with divers and strange doctrines. For 
it is a good thing that the heart be established with grace ; 
not with meats, which have not profited them that have 
been occupied therein.” In these words see first that 
we should not be carried about with many kinds of doc- 
trines, also that without doubt or suspicion the Holy 
Gospel is a certain doctrine, with which we can console 
ourselves and on which wecan surely depend. Accord- 
ingly it is best to establish the heart with grace. Now the 
Gospel is nothing but the good news of the grace of God; 
on this we should rest our hearts, that is, we should know 
the grace of the Gospel to be so certain and ready, and 
trust it, so that we may establish our hearts in any other 
doctrine, and not trust to food, that is, to eating or ab- 
staining from eating (so also Chrysostom takes these 
words) this or that food; for that such oversight and 
choice of food was not of profit to those that have clung 
thereto is clear enough. 

These announcements seem to me to be enough to 
prove that it is proper for a Christian to eat all foods. 
But a heathen argument I must bring forward for those 
that are better read in Aristotle than in the Gospels or in 
Paul. Tell me which you think more necessary to a 
man, food or money? I think you will say that food 
is more useful than money, otherwise we should die of 


414 Huldreich Zwingli 


hunger with our money, as Midas died, who, according 
to the poets, desired that everything he touched be turned 
to gold. And so food is more important to preserve life 
than money; for man lived on food before money was in- 
vented. Now Aristotle says that money is indifferent, 
that is, it is neither good nor bad in itself, but becomes 
good or bad according to its use, whether one uses it ina 
good or bad way. Much more then is food neither good 
nor bad in itself (which I however for the present omit), 
but itis necessary and therefore more truly good. And 
it can never become bad, except as it is used immoder- 
ately; for a certain time does not make it bad, but rather 
the abuse of men, when they use it without moderation 
and belief. 

No Christian can deny these arguments, unless he 
defends himself by denying the Scriptures: He is then, 
however, no Christian, because he does not believe Christ- 
ian doctrine. There are nevertheless some who take ex- 
ception to this, either to the times, or the fasting, or 
human prohibitions, or giving offence: All these I will 
answer from the Scriptures later with God’s help. 

At first then they object to the time: Although all 
things are pure, still they are not so at all times; and 
so during the fasts, quarter fasts, Rogation-day week, 
Shrove-Tuesday, Friday and Saturday, it is improper to 
eat meet. During fasts also eggs, milk and milk products 
are not proper. Answer: Ido not say that these are 
not forbidden by men; we see and hear that daily. But 
all of my efforts are directed against this assumption, 
that we are restrained at this and that time by divine 
law. Let each one fast as often as the spirit of 
true belief urges him. But in order to see that accord- 
ing to the law of Christ we are free at all times, consider 
as follows ; 


Appendix 415 


First, Mark, ii., 23, once when Christ was going through 
the cornfields, His disciples began to pluck the ears 
(and eat). But the Pharisees said to Him: “Lo, 
what are thy disciples doing that is not proper on the 
Sabbath day?” And Christ said tothem: “Have ye 
not read what David did when he had need, when he 
and they with him were hungry; how in the days of 
Abiathar, the high priest, he went into the house of God 
and ate the bread that was offered to God, which it was 
improper for anyone to eat but the priests, and gave 
also to those with him, saying to them, the Sabbath was 
made for man and not man forthe Sabbath? Therefore 
the Son of man is also Lord of the Sabbath.” Notice 
here that need is superior not only to human but also to 
divine law; for observing the Sabbath is divine law. 
And still the hunger of the disciples did not observe the 
Sabbath. Notice again that no place withstands need, 
and that David in need might go into the temple. No- 
tice also that the matter of persons is not respected in 
need ; for David and his followers were not priests, but 
ate the food proper only for priests to eat. This I show 
you now that you may learn that what is said of one cir- 
cumstance is said in common of all circumstances in the 
Scriptures, if anything depends on circumstances or is 
deduced from circumstances. Circumstances are where, 
when, how, the person, or about whom. ‘Thus Christ 
says, Matthew, xxiv., 23: “Then if any man shall say 
unto you, Lo, here is Christ, or there; believe it not.” 
See, this is the circumstance where, or the place. The 
meaning is that God is not revealed more in one place 
than in another. Indeed, when the false prophets say 
that, one is not to believe them. In this way you should 
understand the circumstance of time, and other circum- 
stances, that not more at one time than at another God 


416 Huldreich Zwingli 


is revealed as merciful or as wroth, but at all times alike. 
Else He would be subject to the times which we had 
chosen, and He would be changeable who suffers no 
change. So also of the matter of persons ; for God is 
“not more ready or open in mercy and grace to a person 
of gentle birth than to the base born, as the holy Paul 
says, Acts, x., 34: “Of atruth I perceive that God is 
no respecter of persons.” But we do not need this 
proof here, where we wish to prove that all time is free 
to men. For the words of Christ are of themselves 
clear enough, when He says: the Sabbath is made for 
man and not man for the Sabbath; the Sabbath isin the 
power of man, not man in the power of the Sabbath. 
In a word, the Sabbath and all time are subject to man, 
not man tothe Sabbath. Now if it is true that the Sab- 
bath which God established is to be subject to us, then 
much more the time which men have imposed upon us, 
Indeed, not only the time but also the persons, that have 
thus fixed and established these particular times, are 
none other than the servants of Christ and co-workers 
in the secret things of God, not revealed to men. And 
these same co-workers should not rule Christians, com- 
manding as over-lords, but should be ready only for 
their service and for their good. Therefore Paul says, 
I. Cor., vii., 35: “I say this for your good, not that I 
would put a noose about your necks, that is, I would 
not seize and compel you with a command.” Again he 
speaks, I. Cor.,iii., 21: “ All things are your’s ; whether 
Paul, or Apollos, or Peter, or the world, or life, or 
death, or things present, or things to come; all are 
your’s.” Here you see that all things are intended for 
men or for the service of men, not for their oppression, 
yes, the Apostles themselves are for men, not men for 
the Apostles, O overflowing spring of God’s mercy ! 


Appendix 417 


how well Paul speaks when he says, that these things are 
known but through the Spirit of God. Therefore we 
have not received the spirit of this world, but the spirit 
that is from God, because we see what great things are 
given us by God. You know your liberty too little. 
Cause: the false prophets have not told you, preferring 
to lead you about rather as a pig tied with a string ; and 
we poor sinners cannot be led to the love of God any 
other way but by being taught to summon unto ourselves 
the Spirit of God, so that we may know the great things 
which God has given us. For who could but be thank- 
ful to God, so kind, and who could but be drawn into a 
wonderful love of Him? Here notice too that it is not 
the intention of Christ, that man should not keep the 
Sabbath (for us Christians Sunday is ordained as the 
Sabbath) but where our use or need requires something 
else, the Sabbath itself, not only other times, shall be 
subject to us. Here you are not to understand either the 
extreme necessity, in which one would be near death, as 
the mistaken theologists dream, but ordinary daily neces- 
sity. For the disciples of Christ were not suffering 
extreme necessity, when on the Sabbath day they 
plucked the ears, else they would not have answered 
Christ as they did, when He asked them, Luke, xxii, 
35: ‘When I sent you without purse and scrip, lacked 
ye anything?” For the disciples answered: “ Noth- 
ing.” From this we understand that Christ never 
allowed His disciples to fall into such dire extremity, 
but that the need, which they felt on Sunday, was noth- 
ing but ordinary hunger, as also the word “need” as we 
use it does not mean the last stages of necessity, but has 
the usual meaning ; as when one says, “I have need,” 
he does not refer to the last or greatest want, but toa 
sufficiency of that which daily need demands. Then as 


418 Huldreich Zwingli 


far as time is concerned, the need and use of all food are 
free, so that whatever food our daily necessity requires, 
we may use at all times and on all days, for time shall 
be subject to us. 

Secondly, Christ says, Luke, xvii., 20: “ The kingdom 
of God cometh not with observation : neither shall they 
say, Lo! here, lo! there.” This word observation, Latin 
observatio, has this meaning, as if one carefully watched 
over something that had its time and moment, and if 
one did not take it then, it would pass away, as fisher- 
men and fowlers usually watch, because fish and fowl 
have certain times and are not always to be caught. Not 
thus the kingdom of God, for it will not come with 
observation of time or place. Since now the mistaken 
theologists say that we ourselves deserve the kingdom 
of God with our works, which we choose of our own free 
will and complete according to our powers, the words of 
Christ, who cannot lie, answer: if the kingdom of God 
cometh not with observation or watching (of time, or 
place, or of all circumstances, as is proved in the above 
paragraph) and if at any time the prohibiting of the food 
which God has left free is nothing else but observation, 
then the kingdom of God will never be made ready by 
the prohibition of food. Now it must be that abstinence 
cannot avail anything as to time, and you are always to 
understand that it is not our intention to speak here of 
amount, but only of kind, neither of the times which 
God hath set, but of those which men have established. 

Thirdly, Paul writes to the Galatians, iv., 9: ‘‘ But 
now after ye have known God, how turn ye again to the 
weak and beggarly elements, whereunto ye deserve to 
be again in bondage? You have expectation, or you 
keep day and month, time and year.” Here you hear 
the anger of Paul at the Galatians, because after they 


Appendix 419 


had learned and known God (which is nothing else but 
being known or enlightened of God), they still returned 
to the elements, which he more closely describes in 
Colossians, ii., 20. But since we must use these words 
later more accurately and must explain them, we shall 
now pass them over, satisfying ourselves with knowing 
what the weak elements are. In Latin and Greek the 
letters were called elements, for the reason that, as all 
things are made up and composed of elements, so also 
each word was made of letters. Now the Jews and 
heathen have always clung closely to the letter of the 
law, which oppresses much, indeed kills, as Paul says. 
Not only in the Old Testament, but also in the New, it 
oppresses much. Is that not a severe word which is 
found in Matthew, v., 22? ‘‘But I say unto you, that 
whosoever is angry with his brother shall be in danger 
of the judgment.” So it is, if taken literally, indeed 
impossible for us weak mortals to keep. And therefore 
Christ has given it to us that we might recognise our 
shortcomings therein, and then take refuge alone in 
Him, who mercifully pitied our shortcomings when He 
said, Matthew xi., 28: “Come unto me, all ye that 
labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.” 
But whoever does not know and will not know this 
narrow way to the mercy of God through Christ, under- 
takes with his own powers to fulfil the law, sees only 
the letter of the law and desires with his might to fulfil 
that, prescribing for himself this and that chastisement 
and abstinence at certain times, places, and under other 
circumstances, and after al] that he still does not fulfil 
the law, but the more he prides himself on having ful- 
filled the law, the less he has fulfilled it, for in his in- 
dustry he becomes puffed up in himself. As the Pharisee, 
that boasted of the elements, that is, of the works which 


420 Huldreich Zwingli 


he had literally fulfilled, said, “I thank thee, O God, 
that I am not as other men are; I fast, etc.” Con- 
sider the over-wise piety that exalts itself at once above 
other men, from no other reason than that according to 
his advice or opinion, and powers, he is confident to 
have fulfilled the law; and, on the other hand, consider 
the publican hoping for nothing but the rich mercy of 
God, and counting his own works nothing, but only say- 
ing: “O God, be merciful to me, a sinner!” Is not, 
then, the publican considered more righteous before 
God than the Pharisee? From all this you see that the 
weak elements are nothing else than human wisdom and 
conception of happiness, for man either purposes to 
wish and to be able to keep the letter of the law or else 
prescribes for himself some work to do, which God has 
not commanded but left free, and therefore likes to think 
the works prescribed by himself to be a sure road to 
blessedness, and clings to his opinion to his own injury. 
And for just this reason Paul complains of the Gala- 
tians, that having been mercifully enlightened of God 
they turned again to their own devices, that is, to the 
weak elements, to which the Jews and heathen held, and 
had not so strong a belief in God, that they trusted 
alone in Him and hoped alone in Him, listened alone to 
His ordinances and will, but foolishly turned again to 
the devices of men, who, as though they desired to im- 
prove what had been neglected by God, said to them- 
selves: “This day, this month, this time, wilt thou 
abstain from this or that,” and make thus ordinances, 
persuading themselves that he sins who does not keep 
them. This abstaining I do not wish to condemn, if it 
occurs freely, to put the flesh under control, and if no 
self-confidence or vainglory, but rather humility, results. 
See, that is branding and injuring one’s own conscience 


Appendix 421 


capriciously, and is turning toward true idolatry, and is, 
as David says, Psalm ]xxxi., 12, walking in one’s own 
counsels. But this God desired to prevent by the words 
of David, who says: “Hear, O my people, I will tes- 
tify unto thee, Israel (that is, he sees God and trusts 
Him so thoroughly that he is possessed of Him) ; if 
thou wilt hearken unto me; there shall no strange god 
be in thee ; neither shalt thou worship any strange god. 
I am the Lord thy God, which brought thee out of the 
land of Egypt: open thy mouth, and I will fill or satisfy 
it. But my people did not hear my voice, and Israel 
(that is, that which should be Israel) did not hearken 
to me, and I left them to their own desires, and they 
will walk in their own counsels.” O Christian of right 
belief, consider these words well, ponder them carefully, 
and you will see that God desires that we hearken to 
Him alone! If now we are thoroughly imbued with 
Him, no new god will be honoured within our hearts, no 
man instead of God, no feeling of our own instead of 
God. But if we do not hear the true warnings of God, 
He will let us walk according to the desires and devices 
of our own hearts. Do we not see that consolation 
- oftener is sought in human hearts than in God; that 
they are more severely punished who transgress human 
laws than those who not only transgress but also despise 
and reject God’s laws? Lo, these are the new idols 
which we have cast and chiseled in our hearts. Enough 
has now been said about these words of Paul, and it is 
authority enough to prove that we are as little forbidden 
by God to eat at certain times as we are now forbidden 
by Him to eat certain sorts and kinds of food. 

They will now raise as objections the fasts, or all fast 
days, saying that people will never fast if they are al- 
lowed toeat meat. Answer: Have you heretofore fasted 


422 Huldreich Zwingli 


because you were not allowed to eat meat, as naughty 
children that will not eat their broth, because they are 
not given meat? If anyone desires to fast, has he not 
as much the power to do so, when labourers eat meat, as 
when they are forced to fast with the idle, and are thus 
less able to do and to endure their labours? In a word, 
if you will fast, do so; if you do not wish to eat meat, 
eat it not; but leave Christians.a free choice in the 
matter. You are an idler, should fast often, should 
often abstain from foods that make you lustful. But 
the labourers’ lusts pass away at the hoe and plough in 
the field. You say, the idle will eat meat without need. 
Answer: The very same fill themselves with still richer 
foods, that excite more than the highly seasoned and 
spiced. And if they complain of the breaking up of 
the custom [of fasting], it is nothing but envy, because 
they dislike to see that considered proper for common 
men, for which they can well find a substitute without 
difficulty and without weakening the body, on the con- 
trary, even with pleasuré ; for fish eating is surely every- 
where a pleasure. You say that many cannot endure 
this liberty in eating, not from envy, but from fear of 
God. Answer: O you foolish hypocrites, do you 
think that there is danger and injury in what God has 
left free? If there were in it danger to the soul God 
would not have left it unforbidden. Likewise, if you 
are so concerned about others, as to what they should 
not eat, why will you not note their poverty and aid it? 
If you would have a Christian heart, act to it then. If 
the spirit of your belief teaches you thus, then fast, but 
grant also your neighbour the privilege of Christian lib- 
erty, and fear God greatly, if you have transgressed His 
laws, nor make what man has invented greater before 
God than what God Himself hath commanded, or again 


Appendix 423 


I will turn out a hypocrite of you, if you are such a 
knotty block, twisted in yourself and depending upon 
your own devices. 


Concerning the Commandment of Men. 


Here the first difficulty will occur, when one speaks to 
those who complaining ask: Is one to let go the ordi- 
nances of our pious fathers? Where have the Fathers or 
the Councils forbidden the use of meat during fasts? 
They can show no Council, but they come forward with 
the fasts : referring to canonical law. De Con. di., v., 4o. 

Is one not to keep the feasts? Answer: Who says or 
teaches that? If you are not content with the fasts, then 
fast also Shrovetide. Indeed, I say that it is a good thing 
for a man to fast, if he fasts as fasts are taught by Christ : 
Matthew, vi., 16, and Isaiah, lviii., 6. But show me on the 
authority of the Scriptures that one cannot fast with meat. 
Even if it could be shown, as it cannot, still you know 
very well that labourers are relieved of the burden of fast- 
ing, according to your laws. Here I demand of you to 
show me where meat is forbidden to him not under obli- 
gation to fast. Thus they turn away from the observance 
of the fast, and at last they all come to the canonical law, 
fourth chapter, “ Denique, etc.,” and when you ask fora 
waggon, they offer you a chopping-knife. The chapter 
beginning “ Denique” does not command you to forbid 
laymen to eat meat ; it shows that at these same times 
the laymen fill themselves with meat on the Sundays in 
the fast more than on other days. You hear, more than 
on other days: Thus they eat meat on other days, but 
that they keep it up on Sundays till midnight, troubles 
Gregory ; still he says that they are not to be forced from 
this custom, lest they do worse, But the priests and the 


424 Huldreich Zwingli 


deacons he recommends to abstinence from meat, eggs, 
and cheese—read this well and with judgment and you 
will find this rather against you than for you. After that 
they come with Thomas Aquinas, as though one single 
mendicant monk had power to prescribe laws for all 
Christian folk. Finally they must help themselves out 
with custom, and they consider abstinence from food to 
be acustom. How old the custom is supposed to be, we 
cannot really know, especially with regard to meat, but 
of abstinence from eggs the custom cannot be so very 
old, for some nations even to-day eat eggs without per- 
mission from Rome, as in Austria and elsewhere. Milk 
food became a sin in the Swiss Confederation in the last 
century and was again forgiven. And since I have 
chanced upon this matter, I must show you apretty piece 
of business, so that you may protect yourselves thus from 
the greed of the powerful clergy. Our dear fellow Swiss 
purchased the privilege of using milk food from the 
Bishop of Rome in the last century: Proof, the docu- 
ments about it at Lucern. Go back now before the time 
of these letters and think what our forefathers ate before 
the indulgence, and you cannot say that they ate oil, for 
in the Bull the complaint was made that people in our 
country are not accustomed to eat oil, that they ate the 
foods usual there, milk, whey, cheese, and butter. Now 
if that was a sin, why did the Roman bishops watch so 
lazily that they allowed them to eat these fourteen hun- 
dred years? If it is not a sin, as it is not, why did they 
demand money to permit it? Say rather this, I see that it 
is nothing but air, see that the Roman bishops announced 
that it was asin, when it became money to them: Proof, 
as soon as they announced it as a sin, they immediately 
sold it for money, and thus abused our simplicity, when 
we ought fairly to have seen, that, if it was sin according 


Appendix 425 


to God’s law, no man can remit it, any more than that 
one might murder a man, which is forbidden by divine 
law, could be permitted by anyone, although many dis- 
tasteful sins of this kind are committed. From all these 
remarks you notice also that abstinence from meat and 
drink is an old custom, which however later by the 
wickedness of some of the clergy became to be viewed 
asacommand. So if the custom is not bad or dishonour- 
able, one is to keep/it properly, as long and as thoroughly 
as the greater part of men might be offended by its 
infringement. Answer: This will take a longer time, 
therefore I shall speak now of offence or vexation. 


Of Offence or Vexation. 


Offence or vexation, Greek, skandalon, is understood 
in two ways: first, when one offends others, so that they 
sin in judgment or decision, and become worse ; and of 
these we desire to speak first ; second, offence occurs, 
although not in the Scriptures, but here as accepted by 
us, when a man in himself becomes more sinful or worse, 
or when a whole parish is purposely brought into a worse 
condition. 

Firstly, Christian love demands that everyone avoid 
that which can offend or vex his neighbour, in so far, 
however, as it does not injure the faith, of course you 
are to understand. Sincethe Gospel has been preached 
frequently in these years, many have therefore become 
better and rore God-fearing, but many on the contrary 
have become worse. And since there is much opposition 
to their bad opinion and plans, they attack the Gospel, 
which attacks the good cannot endure but oppose.. From 
which reason the bad cry out saying: I wish the Gos- 
pel were not preached, It sets us at variance among 


426 Huldreich Zwingli 


ourselves. Here one should not yield for that reason, 
but should keep close before his eyes what Christ says: 
Matthew, x., 32: ‘“ Whosoever therefore shall confess me 
before men, him will I confess also before my Father 
which is in Heaven. Think not that I am come to send 
peace on earth (understand by this, peace with the God- 
less or sinful): I came not to send peace, but a sword. 
For I am come to set a man at variance against his 
father, and the daughter against her mother, and the 
daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law. And a 
man’s foes shall be they of his own household.” 

In these words Christ gives us strength not to con- 
sider the vexation of those who will not be convinced of 
the truth; and, even though they are our nearest and 
dearest, we are not to be worried, if they separate from us, 
as He says later, Matt., x., 37: ‘“‘ Whosoever loves father 
and mother more than me, he is not worthy of me; who- 
ever loves his son or daughter better than me, he is not 
worthy of me, and whoever does not take his cross and fol- 
low me, he is not worthy of me.” And also Luke, xiv., 26. 
So wherever it is a matter of God’s honour, of the belief 
or of hope in God, we should suffer all things rather than 
allow ourselves to be forced from this. But where a thing 
cannot harm the belief, but offends one’s neighbour, 
although it is not a sin, one should still spare his neigh- 
bour in that he should not injure him ; as eating meat is 
not forbidden at any time by divine law; but, where it 
injures or offends one’s neighbour, one should not eat it 
without cause. One should make those of little faith 
strong in the faith. 

But when one (thirdly) will not be referred to the 
divine truth and the Scriptures, when one says: “TI 
firmly believe that Christ has never forbidden me any 
food at any time,” and when the one of little faith will not. 


Appendix 427 


grant it or believe it, although one shows him the Script- 
ures about it: then the one who believes in liberty shall 
not yield to him, although he should yield the matter of 
eating meat in his presence, if it is not necessary: but he 
should cleave to the Scriptures and not let the sweet yoke 
of Christ and the light burden become bitter, so that it 
may not be unpleasant to men or please them less, and 
thereby show that itis a human and not a divine prohi- 
bition, Thus a burgomaster gives an answer, in the 
name of the Council, and after the answer adds something 
harsh and hard, which the council did not command him 
to say and did not intend. Hesays: “ This I say of my- 
self; the Council has not commanded it. “ This also, all 
those that teach in God’s name should not sell their 
commands, ordinances, and burdens as God’s, so that the 
yoke of His mercy should not become unpleasant to any- 
one, but should leave them free. That I shall prove by 
the opinion of Christ: Matthew, xxiv., 49, and Luke, xi.., 
45, where He does not want one to trouble one’s fellow 
servants, that is one’s fellow Christians. But if that serv- 
ant say maliciously in his heart, ‘“ My Lord delayeth his 
coming, and shall begin to beat his fellow servants and to 
eat in excess and to drink with drunkards, the Lord of 
that servant will come on a day when he looketh not for 
him, and at an hour when he is not watching, and will 
cut him in sunder, and will appoint the share of the bad 
servant to the Pharisees.” Here open youreyes and see 
whether the servant, to whom it was given to pasture the 
sheep of Christ, has not now for along time beaten his 
fellow servants, that is, fellow Christians; whether he has 
not eaten and drunk excessively, and, as though there 
was no God, run riot, and troubled Christians with great 
burdens (I speak of bad bishops and priests—take it not 
of yourself, pious man) so that the sweet yoke ot Christ has 


428 Huldreich Zwingli 


become to all Christians a bitter herb. On the other 
hand, see how the Lord has come with His light and 
illuminated the world with the Gospel, so that Christians, 
recognising their liberty, will not let themselves be led 
any more behind the stove and into the darkness from 
which a schism has come about, so that we really see that 
God has uncovered the Pharisees and hypocrites and has 
made aseparate division of them. Yes, in that caseI 
venture to command you to fight against those who pre- 
fer to keep the heavy yoke of the hypocrites rather than 
to take the sweet yoke of Christ upon themselves, and in 
thus doing to be careful to offend no one, but, as much 
as is in them, to keep peace with all men, as Paul says. 
Not everyone can do this, or knows how far to yield or 
to make use of Christian liberty, therefore we will hear 
the opinion of Paul about offence. 

Secondly, Paul teaches in the Epistle to the Romans, 
xiv. and xv., how oneshould avoid giving offence ; these 
words I translate into German and give more according 
to the sense than the letter. Him, he says, that is weak 
in the faith, help, but do not lead him into the trouble of 
still greater doubt. One believes that it is proper for 
him to eat all things; but the other, weak in faith, eats 
only herbs. Now the one who is certain that he may eat 
all things, shall not despise him who does not venture to do 
such (understand, from little faith); and he who ventures 
not to eat all things shall not judge the eater, for God 
has accepted and consoled him. You weak man, who 
are you that you judge another man’s servant? He will 
stand upright or fallfor his own master, still he will be 
supported or held up, for God can well support or hold 
him up. One man esteems one day above another, an- 
other esteems all days alike. Let every man be fully 
persuaded in his own mind, that he who regards one day 


Appendix 429 


above another may do so to the honour of God, and that 
he who regards not one day above another does the same 
to the honour of God (understand that he has so strong a 
faith that he certainly does not believe himself at any 
time freed from God’s rule, for the greatest honour to God 
is to recognise Him aright and those things which are 
given us by Him: John, xvii, 3, and I. Corinthians, ii., 
12); also that he who eats all kinds of food, does the 
same to the honour of the Lord, for he gives the Lord 
thanks, and he who does not eat, does it also to the honour 
of God, and is also thankful to God, for no one among 
us lives for himself or dies for himself. Whether we 
live, let us live for the Lord, or whether we die, let us die 
for the Lord; and therefore whether we live or die, we 
are the Lord’s. For to that end Christ died, arose, and 
lived again, that He might be Lord of the living and the 
dead. But, you weak man, why do you judge your 
brother? Or, youstronger man who eat, why do you 
despise your brother? For we shall all stand before the 
judgment seat of Christ. For it is written in Isaiah, 
xlv., 23: “As I live, saith the Lord, to me shall all 
knees bow, and all tongues shall confess me, who am 
God.” Therefore shall each one of us render God an 
account. Thus let us not judge one another, but be this 
our judgment, that no one displease or offend his brother. 
I know and am taught in Jesus Christ that nothing is un- 
clean of its nature, except that it is unclean to him who 
considers it unclean. But if your brother is offended or 
injured on account of food, you do not act according to 
love (that is, you do not give up the food which injured 
your brother before he has been correctly instructed). 
Vex and injure and offend not with food your brother, for 
whom Christ died, and in return your goodness (that you 
do all things in your faith, you eat, you keep fast, or not) 


430 Huldreich Zwingli 


shall not be despised. For the kingdom of God is not 
food or drink, but piety, peace, and joy in the Holy Ghost. 
Whoever serves Christ in these things, is pleasing to God 
and proved before men. Let us then strive to do the 
things which lead to peace; and that we may edify one 
another (that is, properly instruct), do not make God’s 
work (piety, peace, and joy, as is written above) of no 
avail on account of food. All things are clean, but it is 
bad that a man eat with vexation and offence as a result. 
It is proper and good that a man eat no meat and drink 
no wine, indeed eat nothing, whereby your brother is 
vexed or offended or whereby he is ill. You who are 
stronger, if you have faith, have it in you before God. 
Happy is he who does not doubt that which he considers 
certain; but whoever doubts and, in doubt, eats the meat 
about which he doubts, he is condemned ; for the reason 
that he did not eat from belief ; for what is done not in 
belief, is sin. . Also thus should we, who are strong in 
belief, be patient with the timidity of the weak, and not 
please ourselves, but each of us please his neighbour by 
edifying and doing him good ; for Christ did not please 
Himself, but as it is written, ““ The insults of those who re- 
vile you, have fallen uponme.” All these are words of 
Paul, from which you will shortly conclude three things, 
First, that he who firmly believes that it is proper for 
him to eat all things, is called strong ; and secondly, that 
one who has no belief is called timid or weak ; thirdly, 
that the strong should not let the weak remain always 
weak, but should take him and instruct him, that he _ be: 
come also strong, and should yield a point to the weak 
and not vex him maliciously. How we are to yield a 
point to the weak, you shall hear. 

Thirdly, Paul says of vexation, I. Corinthians, viii., 1, 
to those who were present ; They might eat of that which 


Appendix 431 


had been offered to the idols, for this reason. They well 
knew they believed not in the idols, and therefore with- 
out soiling their consciences they might-eat such food, in 
spite of those who were badly offended by it ; indeed to 
them he speaks thus: We know that we all have under- 
standing or knowledge of the food which is offered to 
the idols. Knowledge puffeth up and maketh conceited, 
but love edifieth. Here Paul means, that you, although 
you, a man firm in faith, know you do not sin, when you 
eat the food of the idols, should, if you love your neigh- 
bour, favor him fairly, so that you offend him not; and 
when in time he is better instructed, he will be greatly 
edified, when he sees that your Christian love overlooked 
his ignorance so mercifully. After Paul has said that 
those well taught in the faith know well there is no idol, 
but only one true God and one Lord Jesus Christ, it is 
further mentioned that not everyone is so well taught as 
the first mentioned ; for some eat the food of the idols 
in such manner that they still hold to them somewhat, 
and also that food does not commend us to God (as is 
shown above in the first part of the fourth division). 
Indeed after all that he says further: See that your 
power or freedom does not vex the weak, for if one of 
them sees you sitting knowingly at a table where the food 
of idols is eaten, will not his conscience be strengthened 
or encouraged to eat the food of idols? And then your 
weak brother through your knowledge and understand- 
ing perishes, for whom Christ died. See how strongly 
Paul opposes wanton treatment of the weak. It follows 
further on that when you thus sin against your brethren, 
frightening and striking their weak consciences, you sin 
against Christ ; therefore, if food offends my brother I 
will rather never eat meat than that I make my brother 
offend. Here notice that, although the foregoing words 


432 Huldreich Zwingli 


are spoken of the food of idols, they still show us in a 
clear way how we should conduct ourselves in this mat- 
ter of food, namely, that we should abstain in every way 
from making to offend, and that he is not without sin, 
who acts against his brother, for he acts also against 
Christ, whose brother each Christian is. But you say, 
“ What if my brother from stubbornness will not at all be 
taught, but always remains weak?” The answer will fol- 
low in the last part. 

Fourthly, Paul writes in the above mentioned epistle, 
I. Corinthians, x., 23: “All things are lawful for me, but 
all do not result in usefulness.” Let noone seek his own 
good, let each seek, that is, strive for, the advantage of 
the other. Eat all that is sold in the shambles, not hesi- 
tating for conscience’ sake; for the earth is the Lord’s 
(as it reads in Psalm xxiv., 1), and all the fulness of the 
earth, or all thatisin the earth. If an unbeliever invites 
you and you want to go with him, eat all that is placed 
before you (that is, as far as the kind of food is con- 
cerned: otherwise he would be a faithless glutton, if he 
ate all) not doubting for conscience’ sake. But if one 
said to you: “‘ That is from the sacrifice to the idols,” 
eat it not for the sake of him who thus points it out to 
you, and for conscience’ sake. I say not for your con- 
science’ sake but for the sake of another’s conscience. 
For why is my liberty judged by the conscience of 
another, if I eat with gratitude? Therefore, whether you 
“eat or drink or whatever you do, do it to the honour of 
God; do not offend Jews or heathen and God’s Church, 
just as I endeavour to please all men, not regarding 
myself, but the many, that they be saved; they are my 
followers as I am a follower of Christ. Here you see, 
first, that we should avoid for the sake of another what 
otherwise would be proper ; secondly, that all things are 


Appendix 433 


proper for us to eat, that are sold in the shambles, with- 
out violence to the conscience ; thirdly, how one should 
act about eating forbidden food after the manner pre- 
scribed for the food offered to idols; for although our 
proposition and the one here in Paul are not wholly 
alike, still a good rule is to be derived therefrom ; 
fourthly, that although your liberty cannot be judged 
according to another’s conscience, nor you yourself con- 
demned, still you should always consider the honour of 
God, which honour, however, grows the greater among 
men, if they see you for the sake of the honour of God not 
using your liberty ; fifthly, that all things can take place to 
the honour of God, indeed the daily custom of eating and 
drinking, of working, trading, marrying, if a man cleaves 
to God in all his doings, and trusts that he is called to, 
and chosen for, the work by God. And do not let this 
idea, which may occur to you, trouble you: “ Then I will 
blaspheme, gamble, commit adultery, do other wrongs 
and think I am called tothis by God.” For such things 
do not please the man who trusts in God. The tree is 
now good, let it produce only good fruit. And if one 
lives not in himself, but Christ lives in him so thoroughly 
that, although amistake escapes him, he suffers from that 
hour for it, he is ashamed of his weakness. But those 
who thus speak are godless, and with such words insult 
God and those who have the Spirit of God. Listen to a 
striking example. No respectable and pious wife, who 
has a good husband, can allow one to report that which 
is dishonourable to her husband or let a suspicion arise of 
a misdeed, which she knows is displeasing to him. So 
man, in whom God rules, although weak, still cannot 
endure to be shamefully spoken of against his will. But 
a wanton likes to hear the disgrace of her husband and 
what is against him. Thus also those, who speak thus, 


434 Huldreich Zwingli 


are Godless ; otherwise, if they had God in their hearts, 
they would not willingly hear such disgraceful words. 

Fifthly, Paul had Timothy circumcised, although the 
circumcision was of no service, still that he might not 
offend the Jews, who at that time still believed that one 
must keep the Old Testament with its ceremonies together 
with the New Testament; and so he had it done, as it is 
written in Acts, xvl., 3. 

Sixthly, Christ Himself did not wish to offend anyone ; 
for, when at Capernaum Peter was asked, Matthew, 
xvil., 24, whether his master paid tribute, Peter an- 
swered, “Yes,” And after they had entered the house, 
Christ anticipated Peter (who doubtless was about to 
ask Him something about tribute) and said: “Simon, 
what thinkest thou? Do the kings of this world take 
tribute and custom of their children or of strangers?” 
Peter answered him: “Of strangers.” Jesus said to 
him: “Then are thy children free. But lest we should 
offend them, go to the sea and cast a hook, and the first 
fish that comes up take ; and when thou hast opened his 
mouth, thou shalt find a coin (it was a penny, that could 
pay for them both, but was worth much more than the 
real tax pennies, wherefore I think it was a tribute which 
they collected from Christ), take it and give it for thee 
and me.” Thus Christ did not desire to vex the author- 
ities, but rather to do what He might otherwise refuse. 
This paragraph I would not have added, had not my 
opponents represented it thus: Christ, they said, de- 
sired Himself to avoid taxation. For this article is more 
against them than for them ; thus, if you spiritual teach- 
ers in the flesh are all so inclined to avoid vexation, why 
do you not then also help to bear the common burden, 
when you see that the parish is badly vexed about it and 
cries out: “ You go lazily away from our work. Why 


Appendix 435 


do you not help us carry the burden?” Hear also that 
Christ gave the tribute money, in order not to arouse 
anyone to anger. Loose the knot. There are more 
places still in the Gospel in which the word skandalon 
is written ; but it means there either disgrace; or if it 
means offence, it is used in the following sense: dis- 
grace and contempt, Matthew, xviii., 7. “Woe unto 
the world because of offences,” that is, woe unto the 
world on account of disgrace and contempt, since one 
despises, refuses, and rejects the simple (who is, however, 
as much God’s as the highest), which the following 
words mean, when He says: “Take heed lest ye offend 
one of the least of these.” Thus it is also to be under- 
stood, Luke, xvii., 1, which also is clear from what pre- 
cedes about the rich man, who did not let poor Lazarus 
have the crumbs. Thus also Mark, ix., 42. But skand- 
alon or vexation, so taken, does not fit our purpose, 
therefore from the first I did not wish to divide it into 
three parts, 


Of Avoiding Vexation. 


From the above mentioned arguments one can readily 
learn that one should carefully avoid offence. But still 
I must think, that, as one should forgive the weak, one 
should also in forgiving teach and strengthen him, and 
not always feed him with milk, but turn him to heartier 
food; for Christ says, Matthew, xiii, 41: “The Son 
of man shall send forth his angels (that is, messengers), 
and they shall gather out of his kingdom all things that 
offend and them which are not God-fearing and do 
iniquity, and shall cast them into a furnace of fire.” 
Are His angels to do that?) Yes. Then it is better that 
we should do it ourselves; then it will not be done by 
God and punished so severely, as Paul teaches us, I, 


430 Huldreich Zwingli 


Corinthians, xi. 31: ‘‘For if we would judge ourselves, 
we should not be judged.” If we ourselves take the 
offence, it must not be taken with the judgment of God, 
to which now St. Paul arouses us. 

Firstly, Christ says, Matthew, v.,29: “If thy right 
eye offend thee, pluck it out, and cast it from thee: for 
it is profitable for thee that one of thy members should 
perish, and not that thy whole body should be cast into 
hell. And if thy right hand offend thee, cut it off, and 
cast it from thee : for it is profitable,” etc.,asabove. The 
same is also said in Matthew, xvill., 8, except that he 
adds the foot. Who is now the eye, the hand, the foot, 
which, offending us, shall be cast away? Every bishop 
is an eye, every clergyman, every officer, who are noth- 
ing more than overseers ; and the Greek word efzskofos, 
is in German an overseer, to which the words of St. 
Paul refer, Acts, xx., 28, where he says to the bishops 
of Ephesus: ‘“ Take heed therefore unto yourselves, 
and to all the flock, over which the Holy Ghost hath 
made you bishops (that is, overseers or shepherds), to 
watch and feed the Church of God, which he hath 
bought with his own blood. “ Here you see briefly what 
their duty is: overseeing the sheep, feeding, not flaying 
and shearing too closely and loading them with unbear- 
able burdens, which is nothing else than giving offence, 
pointing out sins that are not present, so that weak con- 
sciences are troubled and made to despair; this is 
offending God’s little ones, Matthew, xviili.,6. But you 
see yourself, according to the words of Isaiah, lvi., ro, 
that His watchmen have become blind, all ignorant, 
stupid dogs, that cannot bark, taught in loose things, 
lazily sleeping and dreaming, indeed, preferring dreams 
to the truth, the most shameless dogs, which cannot be 
satisfied: shepherds which have no reason, each 


Appendix 437 


following his own way or capricious desires, all avaricious, 
from the highest to the lowest, saying: “Let us drink 
good wine and become full, and as we do to-day, so 
shall we do to-morrow, yea, still more.” These all are 
the words of Isaiah, and little is to be added. Do you 
not see that such eyes offend men much, and, although 
Christ tells us to pluck them out, we suffer them 
patiently ? Understand also hand and foot which are so 
nearly related to you, as your own members ; indeed, 
even if they are necessary to you for support and 
strength as a hand or a foot, still one is to remove them 
if they abuse their superiority. Now this paragraph is 
placed here by me to prove that offence should be 
avoided, and that one should not always endure it, but 
that everything should take place with timely counsel . 
and reason, not with anyone’s own assumption and arro- 
gance. If they do not do that, who ought to do it? 
We should recognise that our sins have deserved of God 
this, that such blind eyes lead us, the blind, astray, and 
rule us. Nehemiah, ix.,30: “‘ Thou hast warned them 
in thy spirit through thy prophets, and they have not 
followed, and thou hast given them into the hand of the 
people of the earth,” that is, into the hands of the un- 
believers. Also Isaiah, iii, 4: “And I will give child- 
ren to be their princes (note this well), and old women 
shall rule them.” 

Secondly, the words of Paul are to be considered, 
Romans, xiv., where it is mentioned above in the second 
article on giving offence, in which place he says: “‘ Him 
that is weak in faith receive ye, but not to doubtful dispu- 
tations.’’ See you, the weak is not to be allowed to re- 
main weak, but is to be instructed in the truth, not with 
subtle arguments, by which one becomes more doubtful, 
but with the pure, simple truth, so that all doubt may be 


438 Huldreich Zwingli 


removed. Therefore I could well endure that those who 
are considered steadier and stronger in belief, also un- 
derstood how to make Christians strong in belief, and 
gave them really to understand what has been given and 
left to them by God; but they do exactly the contrary. 
If anything is strong, they wish to make the same again 
weak and timid. Woe to them, as Christ spoke to the 
Pharisees, Matthew, xxiii., 13: ‘‘For they closed the 
kingdom of God to men, for they neither go in them- 
selves nor let other people go in.” By means of these 
words of Christ and of Paul, I think I have excused 
my arrogance, of which certain hypocrites accused me, 
that is, of having preached upon freedom concerning 
food on the third Sunday of this fast, when they thought 
that I ought not to do it. Why? Should I snatch from 
the hand of those who cling to the Scriptures, which I 
myself have preached, their means of defence, and con- 
tradict the Scriptures and say they lie? And should I 
have in my hands the key of God’s wisdom, as Christ 
says, Luke, xi., 52, and not open to the ignorant, but 
also close it before the eyes of the knowing? Do not 
deceive yourself that you have persuaded me to this, 
you vain, loose hypocrite. I will rather take care of my 
soul, which I have laden with enough other misdeeds, 
and will not murder it outright with a suppression of 
the truth. 

Thirdly, it is true that Paul had Timothy circumcised, 
Acts, xvi., 3. But on the other hand as he says, Gala- 
tians, 11., 3, he did not have Titus circumcised : “ Titus 
who was with me, did not want to.be forced to circum- 
cision. He had this reason: False brethren have 
slipped unseen among us, who are come into our midst 
to spy out our liberty, which we have in Jesus Christ, 
that they might make us again slaves and subjects, to 


Appendix 439 


whom we yielded not a moment, that the truth of the 
Gospel might continue with you.” Those who protect 
the liberty of the Gospel put this up before the cere- 
monies as a shield and bulwark. If Paul circumcised 
Timothy, still he did not on the contrary have Titus cir- 
cumcised, although much reproach came to him on that 
account. What is to be done with him? Is Paul in- 
consistent with himself? No. If he had Timothy cir- 
cumcised, it was because he could not keep him from it 
on account of the great disturbance of the Jews, who 
were Christians. But afterwards, those of the Jews 
who had become Christians were better taught, so that 
he was able to spare Titus and protect him without 
great uproar; and, although some demanded his cir- 
cumcision, and, when it did not happen, were greatly 
offended at it, he considered the truth and Christian lib- 
erty more than any strife that arose against it from bad 
feeling. Notice also in these words from Paul how 
everywhere the false brethren had undertaken to take 
liberty from Christians. 

Fourthly, Paul writes, Galatians, ii., 12, that Peter ate 
with the Christians, who had become believers from 
heathendom, indeed, he ate with the heathen. But 
when some came from Jerusalem to Antioch who were 
also Christians but converted from Judaism, he fled 
from the heathen, so that the Jews might not be offended. 
Paul did not desire him to do that, but chid him in 
these words: ‘“‘ You teach the heathen to live as Jews, 
because you are a Jew by birth”; that is, if you flee 
from the heathen on account of the Jews, you raise a 
suspicion against the heathen, that they were not really 
Christians, or they would have to keep human fasts, as 
the Jews, or else sin. And about thishe said: ‘ When 
I saw that he did not walk uprightly, I withstood him 


440 Huldreich Zwingli 


to his face.” Atthis place you find Paul, who teaches 
diligently, not offending, not caring if a few want to be 
offended, providing he could keep the greater multitude 
unaffected and unsuspicious. For if even the Jews, on 
whose account Peter fled from the heathen, became 
offended, still Paul gave them no attention, so that the 
heathen Christian (thus I call them that were converted 
from heathendom) could remain free and would not be 
brought under the oppression of the law by Jewish 
Christians. 

When Christ spoke to the Pharisees, Matthew, xv., 11 : 
“Not that which goeth into the mouth defileth a man,” 
his disciples said to Him: “Knowest thou that the 
Pharisees who heard these words were offended and 
angered?” Christ answered them: “ Let them go; 
they be blind leaders of the blind.” See that here 
Christ’s meaning is, as it seems to me, that the disciples 
should let the Pharisees go and should live according 
to their liberty and custom in spite of them; for they 
were blind, and saw not the truth of liberty ; were also 
leaders of those who erred as they did. Since now in 
the above two articles, I have spoken enough of offence 
and of the doing away with offence, it seems to me good 
to bring together in short statements all that touches 
upon offence, so that each may know where he shall 
yield and where not. 

I. What clearly affects the divine truth, as the belief 
and commandments of God, no one shall yield, whether 
one is offended or not. Psalm cxlv., 18; I. Corin- 
thians, ii., 2; Matthew, v., 10: ‘‘ Blessed are they which 
suffer for righteousness’ sake.”’ II. Corinthians, xiii., 8: 
“For we can do nothing against the truth, but for the 
truth.” 

II. The liberties, which are given to man by God, 


Appendix AAI 


touching the law of food and other such things, should 
be considered with regard to God and man. 

III. When one speaks of the liberty now under dis- 
cussion, that we are released by God from all such bur- 
dens, one shall not yield in respect to truth and belief, 
whether one offend or not. For Paul says : “All things 
are proper for me.” 

IV. But when the practice of liberty offends your 
neighbour, you should not offend or vex him without 
cause ; for when he perceives it, he will be offended no 
more, unless he is angry purposely, as when the Jews 
became angry at the disciples’ eating with unwashed 
hands and on the Sabbath: Mark, ii., 24. 

V. But you are to instruct him as a friend in the be- 
lief, how all things are proper and free for him to eat. 
Romans, xv., 1: “ We who are stronger in the faith shall 
receive the weak,” that is, comfort and instruct them. . 

VI. But when forgiving avails not, do as Christ said, 
Matthew, xv., 14: “Let them go.” 

VII. And use your liberty, wherever you can without 
public disturbance, just as Paul did not have Titus cir- 
cumeised soGak in.) 3. 

VIII. But if it causes public uproar, do not use it, 
just as Paul had Timothy circumcised: Acts, xvi., 3. 

IX. Gradually teach the weak with all industry and 
care, until they are instructed, so that the number of the 
strong is so large that no one, or still only a few, can be 
offended ; for they will certainly let themselves be taught ; 
so strong is the Word of God, that it will remain not with- 
out fruit: Isaiah, lv., 10. 

X. Take this same view in other things, which are 
only means: as eating meat, working on holy days after 
one has heard the Word of God and taken communion, 
and the like, 


442 Huldreich Zwingli 
Of Being Offended at Innocent Customs. 


On account of all this, they complain very bitterly who 
have learned the acceptance of virtues rather from Aris- 
totle than from Christ : saying that in this way all good 
works, as not eating meat, abstaining from labour, and 
other things which I shall not mention, are done away 
with. To these I answer as follows: Many mistakes are 
made as to the choice of good works, although we might 
well hear what St. James says, 1., 17, that all good gifts 
and presents come from above from the Father of light. 
From this we can conclude that all good which pleases 
God must come from Him ; for if itcame from any other 
source, there would be two or more sources of good, of 
which there is however only one; Jeremiah, i1, 13: 
“They have forsaken me the fountain of living waters, 
and hewed them out cisterns, broken cisterns, that 
can hold no water.” Notice the fountain ; notice the 
broken cistern. Thus Christ speaks to the young man 
who called Him good, in order to do Him eye-service : 
“God alone is good.” If He alone is good, without 
doubt no good fruit can come from any source except 
from the tree which alone is good. Then notice the 
angels and you will find, that, as soon as they depended 
somewhat upon themselves, they fell. Thus also man, as 
soon as he depended somewhat upon himself, fell into the 
trouble that still follows us. See, those are the bad, 
false, broken cisterns, which are dug and thrown up only 
by men, not real natural fountains. Thus they thought 
that that would seem good to God and please Him, 
which they had attempted and which resulted in great 
disadvantage to them, from no other reason, as I think, 
than that they had assumed to know the good or the 
right, and did not depend alone on God and trust alone 


Appendix 444 


in Him. Not that I mean to say that abstinence from 
food is bad ; indeed, where it comes from the leading 
and inspiration of the Divine Spirit, it is without doubt 
good ; but where it comes simply from fear of human 
command, and is to be considered as a divine command 
and thus trusted in, and where man begins to please him- 
self thereby, it is not only not good but also injurious ; 
unless you show me from the Holy Writ that our inven- 
tions must please God. I shall also not be worsted, if you 
say tome: “Still the assembly of a church may set up 
ordinances which are kept also in heaven.” Matthew, 
Xvi., 19, and xviii, 18: “ Verily I say unto you whatso- 
ever ye shall bind on heart shall be bound in heaven: 
and whatsoever ye shall loose on earth shall be loosed in 
heaven.” That is true, but the observance is not made 
by the whole Christian Church, indeed only by certain 
bishops, who had for a time undertaken to place upon 
Christians certain laws, without the knowledge of the 
common people. Also if you should say that silence is 
a form of consent, I answer: The pious simplicity of 
Christians has kept silence in many things from fear, 
and that no one has told them of their liberty coming 
from the Scriptures. For example, whom did it ever 
please that the Pope conferred all benefices on his serv- 
ants? Indeed, every pious man everywhere has said, 
“T do not believe it is right.” But the people kept still 
about it with much pain, till the Gospel truth gave forth 
light, when for the first time the mask was taken from it. 
Thus also here the clergy have taken a hand to control 
everything, after they have seen Christians willingly fol- 
lowing them. Why? They fear us for the reason lest 
he who transgresses the command be obliged to give us 
money. Yet it all would have had no success, if such 
oppressive regulations were not given out as being divine. 


444 Huldreich Zwingli 


We sold them for that, and where the agreement was of 
that kind, after the truth had come to light, you can see 
what kind of an agreement it was. But we will hear 
what Paul says of works. 

To the Colossians, ii., 16 (which passage I have quoted 
above), he writes: “Let no man judge you in meat, 
or in drink, or in respect of a holyday, or of the new 
moon, or of the Sabbath days: which are a shadow of 
things to come ; but the body is of Christ. Let no man 
beguile you of your reward in a voluntary humility and 
worshipping of angels, intruding into those things which 
he hath not seen, vainly puffed up by his fleshly mind, and 
not holding the Head, from which all the body by joints 
and bands having nourishment ministered, and knit 
together, increaseth with the increase of God. Where- 
fore if ye be dead with Christ from the rudiments of the 
world, why, as though living in the world, are ye subject 
to ordinances (Touch not, taste not, handle not: which 
things are all to perish with the using) after the com- 
mandments and doctrines of men? Which things indeed 
have a showing of wisdom in will-worship, humility, and 
neglecting of the body ; not in any honour to the satisfy- 
ing of the flesh.” All these are the words of Paul, which 
in Latin are not at all intelligible, but in Greek are some- 
what clearer. But that each may well understand them, 
I shall briefly paraphrase them. 

No one shall reject you or consider you good on 
account of any food, or holy day, whether you rest or not 
(always excepting Sundays, after God’s Word has been 
heard and communion administered). Let the new moon 
fast and the Sabbath go ; for these things have become 
only symbolical of a Christian holiday, when one is to 
cease and leave off sinning, also that we, repenting such 
works, become happy only in the mercy of God ; and, as 


Appendix . 445 


Christ has come, the shadows and symbols are without 
doubt done away with. One thing more notice as to the 

time: It surely seems to me (I cannot help thinking so) 
- that to keep certain times with timidity is an injury and 
harm to unchanging and everlasting justice, thus: simple 
people think that everything is right, if only they confess 
the fasts, fast, enjoy God, take the sacrament, and let the 
whole year pass away thus; whereas one should at all 
times confess God, live piously and do no more than we 
think is necessary in the fast. And Christ says again, 
Matthew, xxv., 13: “Watch therefore, for ye know 
neither the day nor the hour.” 

Further, he reminds them that they shall not allow 
themselves to be beguiled by those who pretend humility. 
What is beguiling but disregarding the simple meaning of 
God and wanting to find or show to the simple another 
shorter way to happiness, and to seek therewith wealth, 
name, and the reputation of a spiritual man? Therefore 
Paul advises against this and warns us that we should not 
allow ourselves to be beguiled, that is, not allow ourselves 
to be deceived. For the same hypocrites will falsely 
assert, that angels spoke with them and revealed some- 
thing to them, and will elevate themselves on that account. 
Listen, how well he paints them in their true colours, and 
yet we do not want to recognise them. Why do you 
dream here of the doctrines and ordinances which are 
chattered out at the pulpit in the cloisters? And why of 
the crows which nip the ears of some of you? Do you 
not now hear that all such things are suggested by the 
flesh, and not by the spirit? For the same depend not 
on the head of Christ, from which all other members 
being arranged, codrdinated, and united, receive their 
nourishment or support of heavenly life, and progress in 
a growth that pleases God. Notice here in the spiritual 


446 Huldreich Zwingli 


growth and increase a different method than in the bodily. 
In the body all members grow from the sustenance of 
the belly, but in the spirit from the head of Christ. Con- 
sider now human doctrines: if they are like the opinion 
of the head, they are sustained by the head ; if they are 
not like it, they come from the belly: O ventres, O ye 
bellies! But if we are dead with Christ to the rudiments 
of the world, that is, if Christ by His death made us free © 
from all sins and burdens; then we are also in baptism, 
that is in belief, freed from all Jewish or human cere- 
monies and chosen works, which he calls the rudiments. 
If we are now dead to the rudiments, why do we burden 
ourselves with fictitious human ordinances? Just as 
though God did not consider and think enough, did not 
give us sufficient instruction and access to blessedness 
and we make ourselves ordinances, which oppress us 
saying: “Touch not, taste not, handle not”; which 
touching or eating does not serve to injure or disturb 
the soul. For only for this purpose have the false 
teachers pretended that this was injurious, that with sim- 
ple-minded people they might have the name of being 
wise and godly, indeed also with those who prescribe for 
themselves their own religion, saying: “Is not such absti- 
nence and purification of the body a good thing? Is it 
not a good thing to prevent sin by good ordinances?” 
Hear how much weight Paul gives this folly. He says 
these things have only the form of the good. If they 
have only the form of the good, they are themselves not 
good in the sight of God, for they arise from ethelothrisketa. 
It is a Greek word, and means the honour or fear of God, 
which one has chosen for himself and to which he stub- 
bornly clings: as, for example, many will not cut the 
beard on Friday and think they greatly honour God 
thereby ; and, when they transgress this, they greatly sin 


Appendix 447 


in thus doing, and consider the rule that they themselves 
have set up so important, that they would three times 
sooner break their marriage vows, than to do anything 
against their reputation for wisdom. Indeed, deceive not 
yourself that things are with God as you have persuaded 
yourself ; thatis true superstition, a stubborn self-chosen 
spirit. Here in the words of Paul consider the greater 
part of the ordinances and rules, and you will find pretty 
things. Thus are the most human ordinances, of which 
Christ says, Matthew, xv., 9: “ But in vain do they wor- 
ship me, teaching for doctrines the commandments of 
men.” He says matin, Greek for impossible, in vain ; 
that tells the very truth. Then this follows: But they 
are worth nothing, if you consider them according to the 
need and wants of the body. All food is created for the 
support of man ; as far as it only affects bodily use it is of 
no moment, whether you eat this or that food. Go rather 
again to the clearer words of Paul and read them again, 
and they will be much clearer to you and worthier in your 
heart. 

Pious servants of Christ, these are the opinions, which 
I have preached from the Holy Writ, and have again col- 
lected for no other purpose than that the Scriptures might 
be forcibly brought to the notice of those ignorant of the 
same, and as Christ commands that they might rather 
search them, and that you and your people may be less 
reviled by them. For as far as I am concerned, it was 
entirely against my will to write of these things, for the 
reason that, even if winning by the aid of the Scriptures, 
as without doubt I shall win with God’s help, still I have 
gained nothing, except that according to divine law no 
kind of food is forbidden to man at any time; although 
among the right and humbly thankful this writing of 
mine causes great joy of conscience, in which they rejoice 


448 Huldreich Zwingli 


in freedom, even if they never eat meat at forbidden times. 
And as aresult I must have a worse time avoiding offence 
than if I had left the world in the belief that it was a 
divine ordinance, which, however, I could not do. You 
know that the Gospel of Matthew, the Acts of the 
Apostles, the Epistles to Timothy, to the Galatians, both 
Epistles to Peter, about which you all heard me preach, 
are full of such opinions, But one must clear the dear 
face of Christ of such spots, unseemly things, and of the 
foulness of human commands ; and He will become again 
dear to us, if we properly feel the sweetness of His yoke, 
and the lightness of His burden. God bless this His doc- 
trine ! Amen. 

What has been written above, I am responsible be- 
fore God and man to account and answer for, and I also 
desire of all who understand the Scriptures, in case I 
have misused the same, to inform me of this either orally 
or by letter, not disgracing the truth by shameless clatter 
behind one’s back, which is dishonourable and unmanly. 
I desire to be guided everywhere by the New and Old 
Testaments. But what follows, I only wish to view as 
submitted, still with proof from the Scriptures, and let 
each one judge of it in secret for himself. ~ 


Whether Anyone Has Power to Forbid Foods. 


I. The general gathering of Christians may accept for 
themselves fasts and abstinence from foods, but not set 
these up as a common and everlasting law. 

II. For God says: Deut., iv., 2: “Ye shall not add 
unto the word which I command you, neither shall ye 
diminish aught from it.” And also xii, 32: “What 
thing soever I command you, observe to do it: thou 
shalt not add thereto, nor diminish from it.” 


Appendix 449 


III. If one could not and should not add to the Old 
Testament, then much less to the New. 

IV. For the Old Testament has passed away and was 
not otherwise given except that it should pass away in 
its time; but the New is everlasting, and can never be 
done away with. 

V. This is shown by the sanctification of both Tes- 
taments. The Old is sprinkled and sanctified by the 
blood of animals, but the New with the blood of the ever- 
lasting God, for Christ thus spake: “This is the cup 
of my blood of a new and everlasting testament,” 
etc. 

VI. If now it is a testament, and Paul, Galatians, iii, 
15, says it is: ‘Though it be but a man’s covenant, 
yet if it be confirmed, no man disannulleth, or addeth 
thereto.” 

VII. How dare a man add to the testament, to the 
covenant of God, as though he would better it? 

VIII. Galatians, 1., 9, Paul curses what is preached 
otherwise concerning the Gospel, thus: “If any other 
and more gospel is preached to you than ye have heard, 
let him that preached it be accursed.” 

IX. Paul says, Romans, xiii.,8: “ Owe no man any- 
thing, but to love one another.” 

X. Again, Galatians, v.,1: ‘Stand fast therefore in 
the freedom wherewith Christ has made us free, and be 
not entangled again with the yoke of bondage.” 

XI. If he is to be cursed who preaches beyond what 
Paul preached, and if Paul nowhere preached the choice 
of food, then he who dares command this must be 
worthy of a curse. 

XII. If we are not bound by any law but the law of 
love, and if freedom as to food injures not the love of 
one’s neighbour, in case this freedom is rightly taught 


450 Huldreich Zwingli 


and understood, then we are not subject to this com- 
mandment or law. 

XIII. If Paul commands us to remain in the liberty 
of Christ, why do you command me to depart from it? 
Indeed, you would force me from it. 

XIV. When Christ said to His disciples, “I have yet 
much to say to you,” He did not say, “ I have much yet 
to teach you how ye shall lay commands on men,” but 
He spake of things which He held up before them and 
which they, however, scarcely understood. But when 
the spirit of truth shall come, it will teach you all the 
truth, that they will understand all things according to 
the light of the Holy Ghost, that is, providing they do 
not at that time understand, either from ignorance or 
trouble and fear. 

XV. For if such commands are to be understood in 
this matter, then the disciples have sinned, in not having 
forbidden labour and the eating of meat, going to the 
saints, putting on cowls. 

XVI. Finally, God spake to Peter, Acts, x., 15 : “ What 
God hath cleansed, that call thou not common.” And 
the Sabbath is subject to us, not we to the Sabbath, as 
it is written above. 

These points have forced me to think that the church 
officers have not only no power to command such things, 
but if they command them, they sin greatly ; for who- 
ever is in office and does more than he is commanded, 
is liable to punishment. How much more then when 
they transgress that which is forbidden them; and 
Christ forbade the bishops to beat their fellow servants. 
Is it not beating, when a command is placed upon a 
whole people, to which command the general assembly 
has not consented? Therefore,'in these articles I leave 
to each, free judgment, and still hope I have to those 


Appendix 451 


thirsting for Christian freedom, made this clear, in spite 
of the enmity to me that will grow out of it. It is those 
who fear the spit (on which their meat roasts) will burn 
off. They fear that, if the matter of eating meat de- 
parts, it will take along with it more that has hitherto 
served pleasure well. Hence, they rage among the sim- 
ple, who, I wish, may become free and pious in Jesus 
Christ. God be with us all! Amen. I have written 
all this hastily ; therefore may each understand it as 
best he can. Given at Zurich, in 1522, on the 16th 
of April, 


RECKONING OF THE FAITH OF HULDREICH 
ZWINGLI TO THE ROMAN EMPEROR 
CHARLES.’ 


WE who were preaching the Gospel in the cities of a 

Christian State were anxiously expecting, O 
Charles, holy Emperor of right, the time when an account 
of the faith which we both have and confess would be 
sought of us also. 

While we are standing in readiness for this, it is an- 
nounced to us, rather by rumour than by any definite 
announcement, that many have already prepared an out- 
line and summary of their religion and faith, which they 
are offering you. Here we are between the victim and 
the knife ; for on the one side the love of truth and the 
desire of public peace incite us the more to do what we 
see others doing; but, on the other, the shortness of 
the opportunity terrifies us, since, on account of your 
haste, all things must be done very rapidly, and, as 
it were, carelessly, for the report announces this also ; 
and because we who are acting as preachers of the 
Divine Word in the cities and country of the State men- 
tioned are situated and dispersed at too great a distance 


1 Reprinted by the author’s permission from Rey. Prof. Dr. H. E. 
Jacobs’ Book of Concord, ii., 159-179, with a slight difference in 
paragraphing. It is the Confession of Faith which Zwingli laid be- 
fore the Emperor Charles at the Diet of Augsburg, 1530, and gives 
Zwingl:’s matured belief on the various points of which it treats, 


452 





THE STATUE OF ZWINGLI AT THE BACK OF 
THE WATER CHURCH, ZURICH, UNVEILED 
TUESDAY, AUQ. 25, 1885. 





Appendix 453 


from one another to be able to assemble in so brief a time, 
and deliberate as to what is most fitting to write to your 
Highness ; also, as we have seen the confession of some, 
and even the confutation of the adversaries of the same, 
which seem to have been prepared before anything was 
demanded of them, I have believed that it would not be 
improper if I alone would forthwith set forth an account 
of my faith apart from the previous judgment of my 
nation. For if in any business one must hasten 
slowly, here we must hasten swiftly, lest by passing over 
the matter with apparent indifference we encounter the 
danger either of suspicious silence or arrogant negli- 
gence. You have here, then, O Emperor, a summary of 
my faith, presented under these circumstances in order 
that I may give in testimony my judgment not only con- 
cerning these articles, but concerning all that I have 
ever written, or, by God’s goodness, will write, not merely 
to an individual or to any small number, but for the entire 
Church of Christ, so far as it is determined by the com- 
mand and inspiration of the Word and Spirit of God to 
believe and accept. 


Reckoning of the Faith of Ulric Zwinglt. 


Or THE UNITY AND TRINITY OF GoD. 


In the first place, I both believe and know that God is 
one and alone, and that He is by nature good, true, pow- 
erful, just, wise, the Creator and Preserver of all things, 
visible and invisible ; that Father, Son, and Holy Ghost 
are indeed three persons, but that their essence is one 
and single. And I hold altogether according to the ex- 
position of the Creed, the Nicene as well as the Athana- 
sian, in all their details concerning the Godhead Himself 
and the three names of persons, 


454 Huldreich Zwingli 
Or CHRIST, THE SON OF GOD AND MAN. 


I believe and understand that the Son assumed flesh, 
because He truly assumed of the immaculate and perpet- 
ual Virgin Mary the human nature, yea, the entire man, 
who consists of body and soul. But this in such a man- 
ner that the entire man was so assumed into the unity 
of the hypostasis, or person of the Son of God, that the 
man did not constitute a peculiar person, but was as- 
sumed into the inseparable, indivisible, and indissoluble 
person of the Son of God. Moreover, although both 
natures, the divine and the human, have so preserved 
their character and property that both are truly and nat- 
urally found in Him, yet the distinct properties and works 
of the natures do not separate the unity of the person ; 
no more than in man soul and body constitute two per- 
sons; for as they are of most diverse nature, so they 
operate by diverse properties and operations. Yet man, 
who consists of them, is not two persons, but one. So 
God and man is one Christ, the Son of God from 
eternity, and the Son of man from the dispensation of 
time to eternity ; one person, one Christ ; perfect God 
and perfect man; not because one nature becomes the 
other, or they are confused with one another, but be- 
cause each remains itself ; and, nevertheless, the united 
person is not separated by this property. Hence one 
and the same Christ, according to His human nature, 
cries in infancy, grows, increases in wisdom, hungers, 
thirsts, eats, drinks, is warm, is cold, is scourged, sweats, 
is wounded, is put to death, fears, is sad, and endures 
other things that pertain to the penalty and punishment 
of sin; for He is most remote from sin itself. But ac- 
cording to the property of His divine nature, with the 
Father He controls the highest and the lowest objects, 


Appendix 455 


pervades, sustains, and fosters all things, illumines the 
blind, restores the Jame, awakens the dead, prostrates 
His enemies by a word, when dead resumes life, returns 
to heaven, and sends from Himself the Holy Ghost. All 
these things, however diverse in nature and character, 
one and the same Christ does, remaining one person of 
the Son of God, so that even those things that pertain to 
His divine nature are sometimes ascribed, on account of 
the unity and perfection of the person, to the human 
nature, and those things that pertain to the human nature 
are sometimes spoken of the divine. He said that He 
was the Son of man in heaven, although He had not yet 
ascended into heaven with His body. Peter asserts that 
Christ suffered for us, when the humanity alone could 
suffer. But on account of the unity of the person it is 
truly said both “The Son of God suffered,” and “The 
Son of man forgives sins.” For He who is the Son of 
God and of man in one person forgives sins, according 
to the property of the divine nature ; as we say that man 
is wise, although consisting of body not less than soul, 
and a body most remote from wisdom, yea, a poison and 
hindrance to knowledge and intelligence. And again 
we say that He was mangled with wounds, when His body 
alone could receive wounds, but His spirit in no way. 
Here no one says that two persons are made of man 
when that which pertains to itself is ascribed to each 
part ; and, again, no one says that the natures are con- 
fused when that is predicated of the entire man which, 
because of the unity of the person, belongs indeed to the 
entire man, but because of the property of the parts to 
only one. Paul says: ‘When I am weak, then am I 
strong.” But who is it that is weak? Paul. Who at 
the same time is properly well? Paul. But is not this 
desperate, inconsistent, and intolerable? Not at all. 


456 Huldreich Zwingli 


For Paul is not one nature, although one person. When, 
therefore, he says, “ I am weak,” the person which speaks 
is undoubtedly Paul; but what is said is neither predi- 
cated nor understood of both natures, but of the weak- 
ness only of the flesh. And when he says, “I am strong 
and well,” undoubtedly the person of Paul speaks, but 
only the soul is understood. So the Son of God dies, He 
undoubtedly who, according to the unity and simplicity 
of His person, is both God and man; yet He dies only 
with respect to his Humanity. In this manner, concern- 
ing the divinity itself and concerning the persons and 
the assumed human nature, not only do I think, but so 
also all the orthodox, whether ancients or moderns, have 
thought; and so think those who even now acknowledge 
the truth. 

Secondly —I1 know that this supreme divinity which 
is my God freely regulates all things, so that His purpose 
to determine anything does not depend upon the occa- 
sion of any creature, preceding reasoning or example; 
for this is peculiar to defective human wisdom. God, 
however, who from eternity to eternity regards all things 
with a single, simple view, has no need of any reasoning 
or expectation of events; but being equally wise, pru- 
dent, good, etc., He freely determines and disposes of 
all things, for whatever is, is His. Hence it is that, 
although knowing and foreseeing, He in the beginning 
formed man who should fall, and nevertheless deter- 
mined to clothe in human nature His Son, who should 
restore Him when fallen. For by this means His good- 
ness in every way was manifested. For since He con- 
tains in Himself mercy and justice, He exercised His 
justice when He expelled the transgressor from his happy 
home in Paradise, when He bound him in the mill of 
human misery and with the fetters.of diseases, when He 


Appendix’ 457 


shackled him with the law, which, although it was holy, 
he was never to fulfil. For here, twice miserable, he 
learned not only that the flesh had fallen into trouble, 
but that the mind also was tortured from dread of the 
transgressed law. For although, according to the Spirit, 
he saw that the law is holy and just and a declaration 
of the divine mind, so that it enjoined nothing but what 
equity taught, yet when at the same time he saw that by 
the deeds of the law the mind does not satisfy itself, 
condemned by his own judgment, with the hope of 
attaining happiness removed, departing in despair from 
God’s sight, he thought of enduring nothing but the 
pain of eternal punishment. Thus far was manifested 
God’s justice. 

Moreover, when the time came to publish His good- 
ness, which He had determined from eternity to display 
no less than His justice, God sent His Son to assume our 
nature in every part, whereby to outweigh the penalty of 
sin, in order that, being made our brother and equal, He 
could be a Mediator to make a sacrifice for us to divine 
justice, which ought to remain holy and inviolate, no 
less than His goodness, whereby the world might be sure 
both of the appeased justice and the present kindness of 
God. For since He has given His Son to us and for us, 
how will He not with Him and because of Him give us all 
things? What is it that we ought not to promise our- 
selves concerning Him who humbled Himself so as not 
only to be our equal, but to be altogether ours? Who 
can sufficiently admire the riches and grace of divine 
goodness, whereby He so loved the world, z. ¢., the human 
race, as to give His Son for its life? These I regard the 
springs and channels of the Gospel; this the only medi- 
cine for the fainting soul, whereby it is restored both to 
God and self, For nothing save God Himself can make 


458 Huldreich Zwingli 


it certain of God’s grace. But now He has so liberally, 
abundantly, and wisely lavished Himself upon us that 
nothing further is left for us to desire unless someone 
would venture to seek beyond what is highest and beyond 
overflowing abundance. 

Thirdly —I know that there is no other victim for ex- 
piating crimes than Christ; for not even was Paul 
crucified for us; that there is no other name under the 
sun in which we must be saved than that of Jesus Christ. 
Here, therefore, not only the justification and satisfac- 
tion of our works are denied, but also the expiation or 
intercession of all saints, whether in earth or heaven, 
with reference to the goodness or mercy of God. For 
this is the one, sole Mediator between God and men, 
the God and man Christ Jesus. Moreover, God’s elec- 
tion is manifest and remains firm ; for whom He has 
elected before the foundation of the world, he has so 
elected, as, through His Son, to receive Him to Himself ; 
for as He is kind and merciful, so also is He holy and 
just. All the works, therefore, of this mercy savour of 
mercy and judgment. Therefore, justly, His election 
also savours of both. It is of His goodness that He has 
elected whom He will; but it is of His justice to adopt 
and unite the elect to Himself through His Son, who 
has been made a victim for satisfying divine justice 
for us. 

Fourthly—I know that that remote ancestor, our 
first parent, was induced by self-love, at the pernicious 
advice suggested to him by the malice of the devil, to 
desire to become equal to God. 

When he had devised this crime he took the forbidden 
and deadly fruit, whereby he incurred the guilt of capi- 
tal punishment, having become a public enemy and a 
foe of God Himself. When, then, He could have 


Appendix 459 


destroyed him, as equity even demanded, nevertheless, 
being better disposed, God commutes His ‘penalty to the 
condition of making him a slave whom He could punish. 
Since this condition neither he himself nor any born of 
him could remove (fora slave can beget nothing but a 
slave), by a deadly taking of food he cast all his pos- 
terity into slavery. Hence, I think of original sin as 
follows: It is truly called sin when it is committed 
against law ; for where there is no law there is no trans- 
gression, and where there is no transgression there is no 
sin in the proper sense, inasmuch as sin is clearly enor- 
mity, crime, outrage, or guilt. I confess, therefore, that 
our father committed what is truly a sin —viz., an enor- 
mity, a crime, an execrable deed. But those begotten 
of him have not sinned in this manner, for who of us 
destroyed with his teeth the forbidden fruit in Paradise? 
Therefore, willing or unwilling, we are forced to admit 
that original sin, as it is in the children of Adam, is not 
properly sin, as has been explained : for it is no outrage 
upon any law. It is therefore, properly, a disease and 
condition —a disease, because just as he fell from self- 
love, so also do we; a condition, because just as he be- 
came a slave and subject to death, so also are we born 
slaves and children of wrath and subject to death. Al- 
though I object not to this disease and condition being 
called, after the manner of Paul, asin; yea, such a sin 
that those born therein are God’s enemies and adver- 
saries, for they are brought thereto by the condition of 
nativity, not by the perpetration of crime, unless so far 
as their first parent has perpetrated it. 

The true cause, therefore, of the hostile conduct and 
death is the crime and wicked deed perpetrated by 
Adam. But this is truly sin. Yet it is such sin as 
clings to us, and is truly, a disease and a condition ; yea, 


460 Huldreich Zwingli 


a necessity of death. Nevertheless, this would never 
have occurred by nativity, unless crime had depraved 
the nativity ; therefore, the cause of human calamity is 
crime, and not nativity ; it pertains to nativity no other- 
wise than as that which proceeds from a source and 
cause. The confirmation of this opinion is supported 
by authority and example. Paul, in the fifth chapter of 
Romans, says: “If by one man’s sin death reigned, 
by one,” etc. Here we see that sin is properly under- 
stood. For Adam is the one by whose fault death 
hangs upon our shoulders. In the third chapter he 
says: ‘For all have sinned and come short of the 
glory of God,” z.¢., the goodness and liberality of God. 
Here sin is understood as disease, condition and nativity, 
so that we all are said to sin even before we come forth 
to the light; 7. ¢., we are in the condition of sin and 
death even before we sin in act. This opinion is irre- 
fragably based upon the words of the same fifth chap- 


ter of Romans: “Death reigned from Adam unto 
Moses, even over them that had not sinned after the 
similitude of Adam’s transgression.”” So death is ours, 


even though we have not sinned as Adam. Why? Be- 
cause he sinned. But why does death ravage us when 
we have not sinned in this way? Because he died on 
account of sin, and, having died, z. ¢., being condemned 
to death, he begat us. Therefore we also die, but by 
his guilt, yet by our own condition and disease, or, if 
you prefer, by our sin, improperly so-called. An ex- 
ample is as follows : A captive in war by his perfidy and 
hostility has deserved to be held as a slave. Moreover, 
his descendants become native slaves, not by their 
fault, or guilt, or.crime, but by their condition which 
has followed a fault; for the parent of whom they 
have been born has merited jt by his crime. The 


Appendix 461 


children have no crime, but the punishment and penalty 
of the crime — namely, the condition, servitude, and 
workhouse. 

If it be pleasing to call these a crime because they are in- 
flicted for crime, I do not forbid. I acknowledge that this 
original sin, by condition and contagion, belongs by birth 
to all who are born from the love of man and woman; 
and I know that we are by nature the children of wrath, 
but I doubt not that we are received among the sons of 
God by grace, which through the second Adam, Christ, 
has restored what was lost in the fall. But this occurs in 
the following manner: 

Fifthly—Hence it is evident, if in Christ, the sec- 
ond Adam, we are restored to life, as in the first 
Adam we were delivered to death, that in condemning 
children born of Christian parents, nay, even the child- 
ren of heathen, we are inconsiderate. For if by sin- 
ning, Adam could ruin the entire race, and Christ by 
dying did not quicken and redeem the entire race from 
the calamity given by the former, the salvation given by 
Christ is no longer the same, and in like manner (which 
be it far from us to assert) is not true: “For as in 
Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive.” 
But in whatever way this must be declared of the infants 
of the heathen, this we must certainly maintain that by 
virtue of the salvation procured through Christ, it is ir- 
relevant to pronounce them subject to an eternal curse, 
not only on account of the cause of restoration men- 
tioned, but on account of God’s free election, which does 
not follow faith, but faith follows election ; of which we 
will treat in the article that follows. For those who 
have been elected from eternity have undoubtedly been 
elected even before faith. Therefore those who because 
of their age have not faith, should not be inconsiderately 


462 Huldreich Zwingli 


condemned by us; _ for although they do not as 
yet have it, yet God’s election has been hidden from 
us ; if before Him they be elect, we judge precipi- 
tantly of what is unknown. But nevertheless of the 
infants of Christians we declare otherwise — viz., that 
as many as are infants of Christians are of the Church 
of God’s people and are parts and members of His 
Church. This we prove’ in this way: It has been 
promised by the testimonies of almost all the prophets 
that the Church is to be assembled from the heathen into 
the Church of God’s people. Christ Himself says: 
“ They shall come from the east and west, and shall sit 
down with Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob” ; and: “Go 
ye into the world,” etc. But to the Church of the Jews 
their infants belonged equally as the Jews themselves. 
Therefore our infants belong to Christ’s Church no less 
than, in former times, did those of the Jews; for if it 
were otherwise the promise would not have been ful- 
filled, as then we would not sit down equally with God as 
did Abraham. For he was reckoned in the Church with 
those also who were born of him according to the flesh. 
But if our children were not thus enumerated with the 
parents, Christ would be sordid and hostile to us in 
denying us what He had given to the ancients. It is 
godless to say this, for otherwise the entire prophecy 
concerning the call of the Gentiles would be vain. 
Therefore, since the infants of Christians, no less than 
the adults, are members of the visible Church of Christ, 
it is manifest that they are no less than the parents of the 
number of those whom we judge elect. How godlessly 
and presumptuously, therefore, do they judge who exe- 
crate the infants of Christians, when so many clear testi- 
monies of Scripture contradict, which declare that from 
the heathen there will be not merely an equal, but even 


Appendix 463 


a larger Church than from the Jews. All this will be 
plainer when we explain our faith concerning the 
Church. 

Sixthly.— Of the Church, therefore, we thus think 
— viz., that in the Scriptures the word “ Church” is re- 
ceived in various significations. It is received for the 
elect who have been predestinated by God’s will to 
eternal life. Of this Paul speaks when he says that it 
has neither wrinkle nor spot. This is known to God 
alone, for, according to the word of Solomon, He alone 
knows the hearts of the children of men. But, never- 
theless, those who are members of this Church, since 
they have faith, know that they themselves are elect and 
are members of this first Church, but are ignorant of the 
members other than themselves. For thus it is written 
in Acts: “And as many as were ordained to eternal 
life believed.” Therefore, those who believe are or- 
dained to eternal life. But no one, save he who truly 
believes, knows who truly believe. Here, therefore, he 
is already certain that he is elect of God. For, accord- 
ing to the Apostle’s word, he has the seal of the Spirit, 
espoused and sealed, by which he knows that he is truly 
free, made.a son of the family, and notaslave. For the 
Spirit cannot deceive. If He tells us that God is our 
Father, and we with certainty and confidence call Him 
Father, secure of eternal inheritance, it is certain that 
God’s Spirit has been shed abroad in our hearts. It is 
therefore certain that he is elect who is so secure and 
safe, for they who believe are ordained to eternal life. 
Yet many are elect who as yet have no faith. For were 
not the mother of- God, John, and Paul, while still in- 
fants, and even before the foundation of the world, 
elect? But this they knew neither from faith nor from 
revelation. Were not Matthew, Zacchzeus, the penitent 


464 Huldreich Zwingli 


thief, and Magdalene elect before the foundation of the 
world? Nevertheless, they were ignorant of this until 
they were illumined by God’s Spirit and drawn to Christ 
by the Father. From these facts, therefore, it is inferred 
that this first Church is known to God alone, and that 
they only who have firm and unwavering faith know that 
they are its members. 

Again, the Church is umderstood in a universal sense 
for all who are reckoned by Christ’s name; z. é¢., who 
have enlisted under Christ, a large number of whom 
sensibly acknowledge Christ by confession or participa- 
tion in the sacraments, and yet in heart either are averse 
to Him or ignorant of Him. We believe, therefore, that 
all who confess Christ’s name belong to this Church. 
Thus Judas and all who have withdrawn from Christ 
belonged to Christ’s Church. For by the Apostles Judas 
was regarded as belonging to Christ’s Church no less 
than Peter or John, although most remote from it. But 
Christ knew who were His and who were the devil’s. 
This Church, therefore, is perceptible to sense, however 
improperly in this world the term be used ; viz., all who 
confess Christ, although among them are many repro- 
bates. For Christ has depicted this in the charming 
parable of the Ten Virgins, some of whom were wise 
and others foolish. This is also sometimes called elect, 
although not that first elect which is without spot ; but 
as in man’s judgment it is the Church of God, because 
of its confession which is perceptible to sense, thus in 
the same way is it called elect. For we judge that they 
who have enlisted under Christ are faithful and elect. 
Thus Peter spake: “To the elect scattered abroad 
throughout Pontus,” etc. Here by “elect” he means 
all who belonged to the churches to which he is writing, 
and not those only who were properly elect of God; 


Appendix 465 


for, as they were unknown to Peter, he could not have 
written to them. 

Lastly on this point.— The Church is received for every 
particular congregation of this universal and perceptible 
Church, as the Church of Rome, of Augsburg, of Lyons. 
There are also other acceptations of “ The Church,” which 
it is not worth while to enumerate here. Here, therefore, 
I believe that there is one Church of those who have 
the same Spirit, who testifies to them that they are true 
children of God’s family ; and this is the first-fruits of 
the Church. I believe that this does not err in regard 
to the truth — namely, in those first foundations of the - 
faith upon which everything depends. I believe also 
that there is one universal perceptible Church while it 
maintains that true confession of which we have already 
spoken. I believe also that all belong to this Church 
who enter into it according to the command and promise 
of God’s Word. I believe also that to this Church be- 
long the infants Isaac, Jacob, Judah, and all who were 
of the seed of Abraham, and also those infants whose 
parents among the first-fruits of the Church, under the 
preaching of the Apostles, were won to the side of Christ. 
For if Isaac and the rest of the ancients had not be- 
longed to the Church, they would not have received the 
Church’s token. Since these, then, were members of 
the Church, infants and children belonged to the primi- 
tive Church. Therefore I believe and know that they 
were sealed with the sacrament of baptism. For infants 
also confess when they are offered by their parents to 
the Church, especially since the promise offers them to 
God, which is made to our infants no less, but even far 
more amply and abundantly than to the ancient infants 
of the Hebrews. These are the foundations for bap- 
tising and commending infants to the Church, against 


466 Huldreich Zwingli 


which all the weapons and machinations of the Anabap- 
tists can effect nothing. For not only are they to be 
baptised who believe, but they who confess, and who 
from the promises of God’s Word belong to the Church. 
For otherwise none of the Apostles would have baptised 
anyone whatever, since there is certain evidence to 
none of the Apostles concerning the faith of the one 
confessing and subscribing. For Simon the imposter, 
Ananias, Judas, and who not, were baptised when they 
gave their names, even though they had not faith. On 
the other hand, Isaac was circumcised as an infant, 
when he did not give in his name or believe, but the 
promise gave his name. But since our infants are in the 
same position as those of the Hebrews, the promise also 
gives their names to our Church and makes confession. 
Truly, therefore, baptism just as circumcision (for we 
are speaking of the sacrament of baptism) requires 
nothing else than either, on the one hand, confession or 
the giving in of the name, or, on the other, a covenant 
or promise. And this will be somewhat clearer from 
what follows. 

Seventhly.—I believe, yea, I know, that all the sacra- 
ments are so far from conferring grace that they do not 
even convey or distribute it. In this matter, most pow- 
erful Caesar, I may seem to thee perhaps too bold. But 
my opinion is fixed. For as grace is produced or given 
by the Divine Spirit (for when I use the term “ grace’”’ 
I am speaking the Latin for pardon, z. ¢., indulgence and 
gratuitous kindness), so this gift pertains to the Spirit 
alone. 

Moreover, a channel or vehicle is not necessary to the 
Spirit, for He Himself is the virtue and energy whereby 
all things are borne, and has no need of being borne; 
neither do we read in the Holy Scriptures that perceptible 


Appendix 467 


things, as are the sacraments, bear certainly with 
them the Spirit, but if perceptible things have ever 
been borne with the Spirit, it has been the Spirit, and 
not perceptible things, that has borne them. Thus, 
when the wind is violently agitated language is conveyed 
by force of the wind; the wind is not conveyed by 
force of the tongues. Thus, the wind brought quails, 
and carried away locusts, but no quails or locusts were 
ever so fleet as to bring the wind. Thus, when such a 
mighty wind passed before Elijah that it could have 
even removed the mountains, the Lord was not borne 
in the wind, etc. 

Briefly, the Spirit breathes wherever He wishes ; 7. ¢., 
just as the wind bloweth where it listeth, and thou hearest 
the sound thereof, and canst not tell whence it cometh 
or whither it goeth, so is everyone that is born of the 
Spirit; z. ¢., invisibly and imperceptibly illumined and 
drawn. This the truth spake. Therefore, the Spirit of 
grace is conveyed not by this mersion, not by this 
draught, not by this anointing ; for if it were thus it 
would be known how, where, whence, and whither the 
Spirit is given. 

For if the presence and efficacy of grace are bound 
to the sacraments, they work where these are conveyed ; 
and where these are not applied all things languish. 
Neither is it the case that theologians allege this as 
material or subject, because the disposition for this is 
first required ; z. e., because the grace of baptism or the 
Eucharist (for thus they speak) is conferred on one who 
is first prepared for this. For he who through the sacra- 
ments receives according to them this grace, either pre- 
pares himself for this or is prepared by the Spirit. If he 
prepares himself, we can do something of ourselves, and 
_ prevenient grace is nothing. If he be prepared by the 


468 Huldreich Zwingli 


Spirit for the reception of grace, I ask whether this be 
done through the sacrament as a channel or without the 
sacrament? If the sacrament intervene, man is prepared 
by the sacrament for the sacrament, and thus there will 
be a process ad infinitum ; for a sacrament will always 
be required as a preparation for a sacrament. But if 
we be prepared without the sacrament for the reception 
of sacramental grace, the Spirit is present in His kindness 
before the sacrament, and hence grace is both rendered 
and is present before the sacrament is administered. 
From this it is inferred (as I willingly and gladly admit 
in regard to the subject of the sacraments) that the sac- 
raments are given as a public testimony of that grace 
which is previously present to every individual. This 
baptism is administered in the presence of the Church 
to one who before receiving it either confessed the 
religion of Christ, or has the word of promise whereby 
he is known to belong to the Church. Hence it is that 
when we baptise an adult we ask him whether he be- 
lieves. If he answer, Yea, then at length he receives 
baptism. Faith, therefore, has been present before he 
receives baptism. Faith, then, is not given in baptism. 
But when an infant is offered the question is asked 
whether its parents offer it for baptism. When they re- 
ply through witnesses that they wish it baptised, the 
infant 1s baptised. Here also God’s promise precedes, 
that He regards our infants as belonging to the Church 
no less than those of the Hebrews. For when they who 
are of the Church offer it, the infant is baptised under 
the law that since it has been born of Christians it is re- 
garded by the divine promise among the members of the 
Church. By baptism, therefore, the Church publicly re- 
ceives one who had previously been received through 
grace, Baptism, therefore, does not bring grace, but | 


| 
| 


Appendix 469 


testifies to the Church that grace has been given for him 
to whom it is administered. 

I believe, therefore, O Emperor, that a sacrament is a 
sign of a sacred thing—~. ¢., of grace that has been given. 
I believe that it is a visible figure or form of invisible 


| grace—viz., which has been provided and given by God’s 
bounty ; z.é., a visible example which presents an ana- | 
| logy to something done by the Spirit. I believe that it is 


a public testimony. As when we are baptised the body 
is washed with the purest element, but by this it is signi- 
fied that by the grace of divine goodness we have been 
drawn into the assembly of the Church and God’s people, 
wherein we ought to live pure and guiltless. Thus Paul 
explains the mysteryin Romans vi. He testifies, therefore, 
that he who receives baptism is of the Church of God, 
which worships its Lord in integrity of faith and purity 
of life. For this reason the sacraments, which are holy 
ceremonies (for the Word is added to the element, and 
it becomes a sacrament), should be religiously cherished, 
z. é., highly valued, and should be treated with respect ; 
for while they are unable to give grace they nevertheless 
associate visibly with the Church, us who have pre- 
viously been received into it invisibly ; and this should 
be esteemed with the highest devotion when declared 
and published in their administration, together with the 
words of the divine institution. For if we think other- 
wise of the sacraments, as that when externally used they 
cleanse internally, Judaism is restored, which believed 
that crimes were expiated, and grace, as it were, pur- 
chased and obtained, by various anointings, ointments, 
offerings, victims, and banquets. Nevertheless, the 
prophets, especially Isaiah and Jeremiah, always most 
steadfastly urged in their teaching that the promises and 
benefits of God are given by God’s liberality, and not 


470 Huldreich Zwingli 


with respect to merits or external ceremonies, I believe 
also that the Anabaptists in denying baptism to the in- 
fants of believers are entirely wrong ; and not here only, 
but also in many other things, of which there is no oppor- 
tunity to speak. To avoid their folly or malice, relying 
upon God’s aid, and not without danger, I have been the 
first to teach and write against them, so that now, by God’s 
goodness, this pestilence among us has greatly abated ; 
so far am I from receiving, teaching, or defending any- 
thing of this seditious faction. 

Lighthly.—I believe that in the holy Eucharist— 2. ¢., 
‘the supper of thanksgiving — the true body of Christ is 
present by the contemplation of faith; 7. ¢., that they 
who thank the Lord for the kindness conferred on us in 
His Son acknowledge that He assumed true flesh, in it 
truly suffered, truly washed away our sins in His own 
blood; and thus everything done by Christ becomes 
present to them by the contemplation of faith. But that 
\the body of Christ in essence and really—z. e., the natural | 
‘body itself —is either present in the supper or masti-| 
cated with our mouth or teeth, as the Papists and some | 
who long for the flesh-pots of Egypt assert, we not only | 
\deny, but firmly maintain is an error opposed to God’s 
\Word. This, with the divine assistance, I will in a few 
words, O Emperor, make as clear as the sun. First, by 
citing the divine oracles ; secondly, by attacking the 
adversaries with arguments derived therefrom, as with 
military engines; lastly, by showing that the ancient 
theologians held our opinion. Thou, meanwhile, Creator 
Spirit, be present, enlighten the minds of Thy people, and 
fill with grace and light the hearts that Thou hast created! 

Christ Himself, the mouth and the wisdom of God, has 
said: “ The poor always ye have with you, but me ye 
have not always.” Here the presence of the body alone 


“Jasvad ‘S.\YaLad “LS 








Appendix 471 


is denied, for according to His divinity he is always pre- 
sent, because He is always everywhere, according to His 
word: “Lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of 
the world ” ; viz., according to divinity, truth, and good- 
ness. Augustine agrees with us. Neither is there any 
foundation for the assertion of the adversaries that the 
humanity of Christ is wherever the divinity is, and that 
otherwise the person is divided ; for this would destroy 
Christ’s true humanity. 

For nothing but God can be everywhere. And that 
humanity is in one place, but divinity everywhere, does 
not thus divide the person ; just as the Son’s assumption 
of humanity does not divide the unity of essence. Yea, 
it would be more effectual for separating unity of essence 
if one person assumes to itself a creature which the rest 
do not at all assume, than it is for separating the person, 
that humanity is in one place, but divinity everywhere, 
since we see even in creatures that bodies are confined 
to one place, but their power and virtue are most widely 
diffused. The sun is an example, whose body is in one 
place, while his virtue pervades all things. The human 
soul also surmounts the stars and penetrates hell, but the 
body is nevertheless in one place. 

Again He says: “ Again I leave the world, and go to 
the Father.” Here the word “to leave” is used, just as 
“to have” before, so that the adversaries cannot say, 
“We do not have Him z7stdly.”, For when He speaks of 
the visible withdrawal of His body, He says: “A little 
while and ye shall not see me,” etc. Neither would any- 
thing but a delusion be supported if we were to contend 
that His natural body is present, but invisible. For why 
would He evade sight when He nevertheless would be 
here who so often manifested Himself to the disciples after 
the resurrection? “ Butit is expedient for you,” He says, 


A72 Huldreich Zwirgli 


“that I go away.” But if we were here it would not be 
expedient that we should not see Him, For as often as 
the disciples were bewildered at seeing Him, He Himself 
openly manifested Himself, so that neither sense nor 
thought might suffer in aught. “ Handle me,” He says ; 
and, “ Touch me not,” “I-am,” etc., and, “ Mary, touch 
me not,”’ etc. 

When in departing He commended the disciples to His 


Father, He said: “Iam no more in the world.” Here 


we have in “I am no more in the world ” the substantive 
verb, no less than inthe words: “ This is my body”; so 
that the adversaries cannot say that there is a trope 
here, since they deny that substantives admit of the 
trope. But the case has no need of such arguments, for 
| there follows: ‘But these are in the world.” The} 
antithesis clearly teaches that He is not, according to His 
human nature, in the world when His disciples are. | 
And that we may know when He took his departure— 
not, as they fabricate rather than explain, when He ren- 
dered Himself invisible—Luke says: ‘‘ While he blessed 
them he was parted from them, and carried up into 
heaven.” He does not say: “He vanished” or “ren- 
dered Himself invisible.” Of this Mark says: “ After 
the Lord had spoken unto them he was received up into 
heaven, and sat at the right hand of God.” He does not 
say: “ He remained here, but rendered His body invisi- 
[ble.” Luke again says in Acts: “ When he had spoken 
these things while they beheld, he was taken up and acloud 
received him out of their sight.” A cloud covered Him, 
whereof there would have been no need if He had only 
removed His appearance and otherwise have continued 
present. Nor would there have been need of removal 
or elevation. Again: “ This same Jesus which is taken 
up from you into heaven shall so come in like manner 


Appendix 473 


as ye have seen him go into heaven.” What more clear 
than this? “ From you,” he says, ‘he was taken up”; 
therefore, He was not with them, either visibly or in- 

’ visibly, according to His human nature. When, then, we 
will see Him return as He departed, we will know that He 
is present. Otherwise He sits, according to His human 
nature, at the right hand of His Father until He return to 
judge the quick and the dead. 

But since there are some who deprive Christ of place, 
and say that He is not in a place, let them see how 
clearly, although with shut eyes, they antagonise the 
truth. He was in the manger, on the cross, at Jerusalem 
when His parents were on their journey, in the sepulchre 
and out of the sepulchre; for the angel says: “ He is 
risen ; he is not here: behold the place where they laid 
him.” And that they may not be able to say that His 
body is everywhere, let them hear: “ When the doors 
were shut, Jesus came and stood in their midst.” What 
need had He of coming if His body is everywhere, but in- 
visibly? It would have been enough not to come, but 
only as one who.was present to manifest Himself. 

But let us bid farewell to such sophistical trifles that 
destroy for us the truth both of Christ’s humanity and of 

\{the Holy Scriptures. These testimonies deny the pre- \ 
sence of Christ’s body anywhere else but in heaven by 
speaking canonically —z. ¢., so far as the Scripture is 
manifest with respect to the nature and properties of the 
assumed body. And whatever contradiction the things 
which we propose to ourselves concerning God’s power 
compel, yet this must not be so tortured as to compel us 
to believe that God acts contrary to His Word. For this 
would belong to impotency, and not to power. More- 
| over, that the natural body of Christ is not eaten with 
our mouth, He Himself showed when He said to the Jews 


474 Huldreich Zwingli 

disputing concerning the corporal eating of his flesh :| 
“ The flesh profiteth nothing ” — viz., for eating natur-. 
ally, but for eating spiritually much, as it gives life. 

“That which is born of the flesh is flesh; and that 
which is born of the Spirit is spirit.” If, therefore, the 
natural body of Christ is eaten by our mouth, what but 
flesh will be produced from flesh naturally masticated ? 
And lest the argument should seem unimportant to any- 
one, let him hear the second part: “ That which is born 
of the Spirit is spirit.” Therefore, that which is spirit is 
born of the Spirit. If, then, the flesh of Christ is salu- 

- tary to the soul, it should be eaten spiritually, not carnally. 
This also pertains to the substance of the sacraments, that 
Spirit is generated of spirit, and not of any corporeal mat- 
ter, as we have previously indicated. 

Paul teaches that if he once knew Christ according to 
the flesh, henceforth he will know Him no more accord- 
ing to the flesh. 

By these passages we are compelled to confess that the 
words: “This is my body,” should be received not | 
‘naturally, but figuratively, just as the words: “ This is | 
the passover.” For the lamb that was eaten every year 
‘with the celebration of the festival was not the passover, , 
but signified that the passover and omission had been) 
formerly made. To this is added the succession, since 
the passover was succeeded by the Lord’s Supper, which 
teaches that Christ used similar words ; for succession 
observes imitation, The same composition of words is 
an additional argument. So is the time since, at the same 
Supper, the old passover is discontinued, and the new 
Eucharist is instituted. The proper signification of all 
memorials is a further confirmation which gives it its 
name, whereof they make mention as “ commemoration.” 

Thus the Athenians named oéroayOera [disburdening 


Appendix 475 


ordinance], not as though the debt were lowered every 
year, but because what Solon once did they continually 
celebrate ; and this their celebration they dignify with 
the name of the thing itself. Thus those things are 
called the body and blood of Christ which are the sym- 
bols of the true body. Now follow the arguments : 

As the body cannot be fed upon a spiritual substance, 
so the soul cannot be fed upon a bodily substance. But 
if the natural body of Christ is eaten, I ask whether it 
feed body or soul. Not the body; then the soul. If 
the soul, then the soul is nourished by meats, and it is 
not true that Spirit is born only of spirit. 

In the second place, I ask: What does the body of 
Christ render naturally perfect? If the forgiveness of 
sins, as the oné side claims, then the disciples obtained the 
forgiveness of sins in the Holy Supper, and Christ there- 
fore died in vain. If that which is eaten imparts the 
virtue of Christ’s passion, as the same side claims, then 
the virtue of the passion and redemption was imparted 
before it was acquired. If the body is fed for the 
resurrection, as another very ignorantly asserts, then 
would it much more heal and relieve of sickness our 
body. But Irenzeus wishes it to be understood other- 
wise when he says that our body is nourished by Christ’s 
body for the resurrection. For he desires to show that 
the hope of our resurrection is strengthened by Christ’s 
resurrection. An appropriate figure ! 

Thirdly.—If the natural body of Christ was given His 
disciples in the Supper, it necessarily follows that they 
ate it such as it then was. But it was then susceptible 
of suffering ; they ate, therefore, the vulnerable body, 
for it was not yet glorified. For when they say : They 
ate the same body, yet not susceptible to suffering as it 
was, but the same as it was after the resurrection, we 


470 Huldreich Zwingli 


object. Therefore He either had two bodies, of which 
one was glorified and the other was not, or the one and 
the same body was at the same time susceptible and un- 
susceptible to suffering. Thus, too, since He greatly 
dreaded death, He was undoubtedly willing not to suffer, 
and to use that bodily endowment whereby He was free 
from pain. Therefore He did not truly suffer, but in hy- 
pocrisy ; whereby Marcion is recalled by these gladiators. 
Six hundred arguments, O Emperor, could be adduced, 
but we are content now with these. 

Moreover, that the ancients agree with us on the last 
part of this article I will establish by two witnesses, and 
those, too, of the first rank, viz.: 

By Ambrose, who in the First Epistle to the Corinth- 
ians says concerning ‘‘Ye do show forth the Lord’s 
death”: “For as by the Lord’s death we have been 
freed, mindful of this, in eating and drinking we declare 
the flesh and blood that were offered for us,” etc. Am- 
brose, moreover, is speaking of the food and drink of 
the Supper, and asserts that we declare those very objects 
that were offered for us. 

By Augustine also, who in his thirtieth discourse on 
John says that the body of Christ that rose from the dead 
must be in one place. Here the printed copies have 
“can be” instead of “ must be,” but incorrectly, for in the 
Master of “Sentences” [Peter Lombard] and the Canoni- 
cal Decrees, into which this judgment of Augustine was 
transferred, the word “ must” is read. By this we clearly 

| see that whatever they spake excellently concerning the 
| Supper, they understood not of the natural but of the 
| spiritual eating of Christ’s body. For when they knew that 
‘the body of Christ must be in one place, and that it is at 
the right hand of God, they did not withdraw it thence 
to submit it for mastication by the fetid teeth of men, 


Appendix 477 


Augustine likewise teaches in the twelfth chapter 
“Against Adimantus” that the three expressions: “The 
blood is the life,” and “ This is my body,” and “ The 
rock was Christ,” were spoken symbolically—z. ¢., as he 
himself says, in a figure and figuratively. And among 
many other things he at length comes to these words : 
“T can interpret that command as prescribed for a sign. 
For the Lord did not hesitate to say: ‘This is my body’ 
when he gave a sign of his body.” Thus far Augustine. 
Lo, a key fOr us whereby we can unlock all the declara- 
tions of the ancients concerning the Eucharist! That 
which is only a sign of the body he says is called the body. 

Let them who wish go now and condemn us for heresy, 
while they know that by the same work, contrary to the 
decrees of the pontiffs, they are condemning the sup- 
port of theologians. For from these facts it becomes) 

very manifest that the ancients always spoke symboli-| 

| cally when they attributed so much to the eating of the | 

_ body of Christ in the Supper ; viz., not that sacramental | 
manducation could cleanse the soul, but faith in the 

Lord Jesus Christ, which is spiritual manducation, 
| whereof these external things are symbol and shadow. 
‘And as bread sustains the body and wine enlivens and 
exhilarates, thus it strengthens the soul and assures it of 
God’s mercy that He has given us His Son; thus it 
refreshes the mind by the confidence that, by His blood, 
the sins with which it was being consumed were 
destroyed. We will now be content with these passages, 
although anyone could compile entire volumes in explain- 
ing and confirming the fact that the ancients are of our 
opinion, 

Neither can the pamphlet recently published concern- 
ing the opinion of the ancients, which it expressly pro- 
mises to defend, move anyone, For in a short time we 


478 Huldreich Zwingli 


will see the refutation of our very learned brother CEéco- 
lampadius, the province of whose exordium it is to insert 
the opinion of the ancients; and I think that we who 
are of this opinion have sufficiently exhibited in many 
volumes, written to different persons, what in this matter 
can be required for the clearer explanation or confuta- 
tion of the adversaries. 

Ninthly.—\ believe that ceremonies which are neither, 
through superstition, contrary to faith or God’s Word 
(although I do not know whether such be found), can 
be tolerated by charity until the Day-star arise. But at 
the same time I believe that by the same charity as mis- 
tress the ceremonies mentioned should be abolished 
when it can be done without great offence, however 
much they who are of a faithless mind may clamour. For 
Christ did not prohibit Magdalene from pouring out the 
ointment, although the avarice and dishonesty of Judas 
made a disturbance. Images, moreover, that are prosti- 
tuted for worship, I do not reckon among ceremonies, but 
among the number of those things that conflict diame- 
trically with God’s Word. But I am so far from con- 
demning those that are not offered for worship that I 
acknowledge both painting and statuary as God’s gifts. 

Tenthly.—The work of prophecy or preaching I believe 
to be most holy, so that above any other duty it isin — 
the highest degree necessary. For in speaking canoni- 
cally or regularly we see that among all nations the out- 
ward preaching of evangelists or bishops has preceded 
faith, which we nevertheless say is received by the Spirit 
alone. For, alas! We see very many who hear the out- 
ward preaching of the Gospel, but believe not, because 
a dearth of the Spirit has occurred. Whithersoever, 
then, prophets or preachers, of the Word are sent, it is 
a sign of God’s grace that He wishes to manifest the 


Appendix 479 


knowledge of Himself to His elect ; and where they are 

denied, it is a sign of impending wrath. This can be 

inferred from the prophets and the example of Paul, 

who was sometimes forbidden to go to some and at other 

times was called. But the laws themselves and the 

magistrates can be assisted in maintaining public justice 

by no means more effectually than by prophecy. For 
in vain is that which is just taught unless they upon 

whom it is enjoined have regard for what is just and 

love equity. But for this the minds are prepared 

by the prophets as ministers, and by the Spirit as the 
author both of teacher and of hearer. This kind of 
ministers — viz., they who teach, console, terrify, care 
for, and faithfully watch—we acknowledge among. 
Christ’s people. That also we acknowledge which 

baptises, administers in the Lord’s Supper the body 
_and blood (for thus we also by metonymy name the 
holy bread and wine of the Supper), visits the sick, 

and feeds the poor from the resources and in the name 

of the Church; that, finally, which reads, interprets, and 
makes confession of that whereby either they themselves 
or others are prepared for presiding at some time over 
the churches. But this mitred and withered race, which 

is a large number, born to consume food, we believe is 

a useless, spurious weight upon the earth, and that it is 
in the ecclesiastical, what humpbacks and scrofula are 
in the human body. 

Lleventhly.—\ know that the magistrate, when properly 
inaugurated, holds God’s place no less than the prophet. 
For as a prophet is a minister of heavenly wisdom and 
goodness, as he faithfully teaches and brings errors to 
light, so the magistrate is the minister of goodness and 
justice. He is the minister of goodness, with fidelity 
and moderation like God, both to hear and to deliberate 


480 Huldreich Zwingli 


upon the affairs of the people—of justice, to restrain the 
wantonness of the ungodly and to guard the innocent. 
If a prince have these endowments, I believe that his 
conscience has nothing to fear. If he lack these, and 
yet render himself an object of fear and terror, I believe 
that his conscience can in no way be cleared upon the 
ground that he has been properly inaugurated. Yet, at 
the same time, I believe that a Christian should obey 
such a tyrant, even to the occasion whereof Paul says: 
“If thou mayst be made free, use it rather.” Neverthe- 
less, 1 believe that this is indicated by God alone, and 
not by man; and this not obscurely, but as openly as 
when Saul was rejected and received David as succes- 
sor. And with Paul I think concerning rendering 
tribute and custom for protection, Romans, xili. 
Twelfthly.—I believe that the figment of the purgato- 
rial fire is as detrimental to the gratuitous redemption be- 
stowed through Christ as it was lucrative to its authors. 
For if itis necessary by punishments and tortures to ex- 
piate the merits of our crimes, Christ will have died in 
vain and faith will have been made void. What more 
wicked in a Christiancan be imagined? Or what sort 
of Christ do they have who wish to be called Christians 
and yet dread this fire, which is no longer fire, but smoke? 
That there is a hell where the faithless and ignominious 
and public enemies are punished with Ixion and Tantalus 
I not only believe, but know. - For when the truth speaks 
of the universal judgment, it asserts that after this judg- 
ment some will go into everlasting fire. After the uni- 
versal judgment, therefore, there will be everlasting 
fire. That this is endless eternity the Anabaptists can- 
not disguise by their error that “for ever ” does not 
last beyond the general judgment. For here Christ is 
speaking of everlasting fire that will burn after the 


Appendix 481 


judgment, and will torture the devil and his angels, and 
the ungodly who despise God, and the cruel who suppress 
the truth with falsehood and do not mercifully and faith- 
fully aid the necessities of their neighbour. 


The above I firmly believe, teach, and maintain, not 
from my own oracles, but from those of the Divine Word ; 
and, God willing, I promise to do this as long as life con- 
trols these members, unless someone from the declara- 
tions of Holy Scripture, properly understood, explain and 
establish the reverse as clearly and plainly as we have 
established the above. For it is no less grateful and de- 
lightful than fair and just for us to submit our judgments 
to the Holy Scriptures, and the Church deciding accord- 
ing to them by the Spirit. We could explain all things 
more amply, but since there is no occasion, we are con- 
tent with the above, which we regard such that while at 
them anyone can readily carp, as is so customary to-day, 
yet no one can overthrow. But if anyone make the at- 
tempt he will not escape unpunished. Then perhaps we 
will produce the arms we have in reserve. Now we have 
declared enough for the present. 

Wherefore, most excellent Emperor and other princes, 
rulers, nobles, and deputies, and heads of States, I beseech 
and implore you, by Jesus Christ our Lord and Brother, 
by His goodness and justice, by the verdict which He will 
render all according to their merits, whom no delibera- 
tion escapes, who brings to confusion the designs of 
princes that take counsel and rule godlessly, who exalts 
the humble and abases the proud, in the first place not 
to neglect the lowliness of the petitioner. For the foolish 
often have spoken opportunely, and the truth itself 
chooses for its publication weak men and those of the 
lowest class. Secondly, remember that you too are men, 


482 Huldreich Zwingli 


who yourselves also are capable of being deceived by 
others. For every man is a liar. And unless something 
else be taught by inspiration of God than what he him- 
self either knows or desires, nothing is to be hoped of 
him than that he will be destroyed by his own arts and 
plans. For with too much truth the prophet Jeremiah has 
said: “Lo, they have rejected the Word of the Lord; 
and what wisdom is in them?” Wherefore, since ye are 
the priests of justice, none are so bound to thoroughly 
learn God’s will. But whence can this be sought but 
from Hisoracles? Be not averse, therefore, to the opin- 
ions of those who rely upon God’s Word. For we see it 
generally happen that the more adversaries assail the 
truth, so much the more does it shine forth and is false- 
hood banished. But if, as it does not escape me, there 
are those with you who zealously defame us as ignorant, 
and, if God please, also as malicious, consider, in the first 
place, whether we who adopt this view of the Gospel 
and the Eucharist, have ever so conducted our lives that 
any good man would ever doubt as to whether we should 
be regarded as among good men. Secondly, whether 
from our very infancy talent and literary culture were so 
distant from us that all hope of our learning had to be 
rejected. Certainly we boast of neither of these, since 
even Paul was what he was by the grace of God. If 
even a very cheerful life has been our lot, nevertheless 
this has never deviated to luxury and shamelessness, nor, 
on the other hand, degenerated into cruelty, arrogance, 
or obstinacy; so that the designs of our adversaries, 
often confounded by the testimony of our life, have 
sounded a retreat. Our learning, although greater than 
our enemies either could bear or without conscience 
despise, is, notwithstanding, far less than our followers 
think we possess. However, that we may reach that 


Appendix 7 483 


towards which we are aiming, we have performed such 
service, not only in sacred, but also in profane literature, 
that what we teach is not at random. Let it be per- 
mitted us, moreover, to praise the grace and ‘munificence 
of God so liberally communicated to our churches. The 
churches that hear the Lord God through us have indeed 
so received the Word of God that falsehood and dis- 
honesty are diminished, pride and luxury subdued, and 
reproaches and wrangling have departed. If these are 
not certainly true fruits of divine inspiration, what will 
they be? Consider, most excellent Emperor and all 
ye princes and nobles, what good fruit of human doc- 
trine a person has produced for us. As the purchased 
masses increased the lust and impudence of both princes 
and people, so they both introduced and extended the 
luxury of the pontiffs and the excesses of the ministrants 
of the mass. Yea, what crime did they not kindle? For 
who will scatter the wealth accumulated by the mass if it 
be not stopped and held fast in their veins ? 

May God, therefore, who is far better than you all, 
whom we gladly both call and believe to be most excel- 
lent men, grant that you may undertake to extirpate the 
roots of all errors in the Church, and to leave and de- 
sert Rome with her rubbish that she has obtruded upon 
the Christian world, and especially upon your Germany. 

Whatever force, too, you have heretofore exerted 
against the purity of the Gospel may you direct against 
the criminal attempts of ungodly Papists, that justice to 
us which has been banished by your indifference, and 
our innocence which has been obscured by artful misrep- 
resentations, may be established. Enough cruelty. has 
been exercised, unless it be not savage and cruel without 
a just ground to make charges, to condemn—ay, to 
slaughter, kill, rob, interdict. Since success has not 


484 Huldreich Zwingli 


followed efforts made in this way, the attempt must cer- 
tainly be made in another way. If this counsel is of the 
Lord, do not fight against God; but if from elsewhere, 
it will perish by its own rashness. For this reason 
permit God’s Word to be freely disseminated and to ger- 
minate, ye sons of men, who can forbid not even a grain 
from growing. You see that this seed is abundantly 
watered by the rain from heaven, neither can it be 
checked by any heat from men so as to become parched. 

Consider not what you most of all desire, but what the 
world requires in regard to the Gospel. ‘Take this, such 
as it is,in good part, and by your disposition show that 
you are childen of God. 

HULDREICH ZWINGLI. 
Most devoted to your Majesty and all believers, 

ZURICH, July 3, 1530. 


INDEX TO INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER: 


SWITZERLAND AT THE BEGINNING OF THE SIX- 


TEENTH 


Altstetten, 46 

Amerbach, Bonifacius (of Basel), 
quoted, 21 

Anshelm, Valerius (of Bern), 
Berner-Chronik, (sg. Stier- 
lein u. Wyss., Bern, 1825-33, 
6 vols.) quoted, 13, 14 

Appenzell, 4 

Austria, 12 


Baden, 17, 10), 27 

Balcus, ‘‘ Descriptio Helvetiz,” 
ed. Bernouilli in Quellen zur 
Schweizergeschichte, vi., 
quoted, 14 

Basel, 4, 22, 25, 34-36, 40, 41 

Basler Taschenbuch, 1863, 
“Court Records of Basel,” 
alluded to, 35 

Bern, 4, 5, 33, 36, 40 

‘*Blue Laws” of Switzerland, 


22-24 

Bonstetten, ‘‘Descriptio Hel- 
vetie,” in Quellen zur schweiz- 
erischen Geschichte,  xiii., 
quoted, 45 


Bullinger, Heinrich, Reforma- 
tionsgeschichte, quoted, 28 
Burgundy, 7, 10; wars of, 4 


Charles the Bold, 4 
Christopher, Bishop of Basel, 
quoted, 25-27 


CENTURY 


Cities, 38-40 (see analysis of 
chapter) 

Clergy, morals of, 24-31 (see an- 
alysis of chapter) 


Diet, the, 5-11, 27 


Education, 34-38 (see analysis of 
chapter) 

Egli, Emil, Aktensammlung zur 
Geschichte der Liircher Re- 
Sormationin den Fahren 1519- 
1533, Zurich, 1879, quoted, 
24; ‘‘Ziircherische Kirchen- 
politik von Waldmann bis 
Zwingli,” in FYahrbuch fir 
Schweisergeschichte, xxi., 
quoted, 44 

Lidgenossischen Abschiede, 
1245-1798 ; Amtliche Samm- 
lung der alteren (official pub- 
lication; Bern, Zurich, Lu- 
cerne, 1839-99, 8 vols. 4to), 
quoted, I1, 12, 27 

Einsiedeln, 46 

Emperor, the, 7, 10 





Erasmus, quoted, 16; referred 
to, 35 

Froben, 35 

Froschauer, 35 

Froude, James Anthony, Life 
and Letters of Erasmus (N. 
Y., 1895), quoted, 16 


485 


486 Index to Introductory Chapter 


Geneva, 4, 40 

Glareanus (sce Loriti) 

Glarus, 4 

Goldli, Heinrich, 29-31 

Grisons, the, 4 

Guicciardini, Francesco, /storia 
d’ Italia [1492-1534] (n. e. 
Milan, 1875, 4 vols.), quoted, 
POY, Pai 


Holbein, 36, 38 
Hugo, Bishop of (see Landen- 
berg) 


Inquisition never in Switzerland, 
why, 33 


Julius II., Pope, 32 
Kiissnacht, 46 


Landenberg, Hugo von, Bishop 
of Constance, quoted, 27 

Lapide, Johannes a, 36 

“ League of Eight,” 4 

Leimbach, 46 

Leipzig, 34 

Leo X., Pope, 32 

London, 13 

Loriti, Henry (Glareanus), 34-35 

Lorraine, Duke of, 7 

Lucerne, 4, 39; lake of, 4 

Luther, 44 


Macchiavelli, Niccolé, 77 Prin- 
Cope (awa he se rncei (eda aiL:. 
Arthur Burd, Oxford, 1891), 
quoted, 19, 20 

Mercenary service, 7-14 (see an- 
alysis of chapter) 

Milan, 12; Duchy of, 7 

Morals of the clergy (see Clergy) 
Myconius, Oswald, 36, 37 





Neuchatel, 4 


Oechsli, Wilhelm, Qzellenbuch 
zur Schweizergeschichte (Zu- 
rich, 1886, neue Folge, 1893), 
quoted, 14-19, 24, 27, 31, 35 





Opinions of foreigners, 14-21 
(see analysis of chapter) 


Papacy and Switzerland, 31-33 
(see analysis of chapter) 

Paris, 34 

Pirckheimer, Wilibald, Astoria 
belli Suitensis (ed. Zurich, 
1737), quoted, 18, Ig 

Pope, the, 7, 12, 29-31 

‘*Protectors of the freedom of 
the Church,” title given by the 
Pope to the Swiss, 32 


Remley, Zhe Relation of State 
and Church in Zurich, 15 19- 
1523 (Ph.D. dissertation), 
Leipzig, 1895, 44 


Savoy, Duke of, 7 

Schaffhausen, 4 

Schinner, Bishop Matthias, of 
Sitten, 32 

Schwyz, 4 

Simler, Johann Jacob, Samm- 
lung alter und neuer Ur- 
kunden zur Beleuchtung der 
Kirchen-Geschichte, vornehm- 
lich des Schweizerlandes (Zu- 
rich, 1757-1763, 2 vols., in 6 
parts), quoted, 27 

Spain, King of, 7 

Sumptuary laws, 22-24 (see an- 
alysis of chapter) 

Swiss Confederation, 
and growth, 4, 7, 12 

Switzerland, at the beginning of 
the XVI. century, chapter on, 
by John Martin Vincent, 3- 
47; analysis of: political con- 
dition of, feeble unity between, 
and absolute independence in 
law and government of the 
separate states, 3; origin of 
the Swiss Confederation, 4; 
growth up to sixteenth cent- 
ury,4; condition of component 
parts, 4; Zurich and Bern 
pre-eminent, 5; jealousy —be- 
tween rural cantons and city 


nucleus 


Index to Introductory Chapter 487 


Switzerland—Continued 


states and mutual recrimina- 
tion; 5; constitution of the 
federal congress, the Diet 
and its authority, 6; how fed- 
eral government was carried 
on, 6; mercenary service, 7- 
14; the increase of Swiss im- 
portance due to it, 7; the 
domestic effect of it and its 
ramifications, 8; dependence 
on foreign subsidies, and ef- 
forts to lessen it, 9; punish- 
ment of mercenaries, 10; gen- 
eral acceptance of foreign 
pensions worked against at- 
tempts to do away with them, 
II; attractiveness to peasants 
of foreign military service, II; 
reform set about by Confeder- 
ate law, 12; repeal of law, 12; 
severe losses in lives and enor- 
mous gains in money in Ital- 
jan campaign of early years of 
century, 12; marked increase 
of demoralisation and of lux- 
ury and extravagance, 13; 
opinions of foreigners, 14-21 ; 
Balcus quoted, 14-17; ad- 
verse critical contrast be- 
tween fidelity and obedience 
on field and contempt of law 
in private life, 14, 15 ; extrav- 
agance in alms, but scholars 
forced to live in poverty, 15 ; 
table manners bad, 16; inso- 
lence toward princely ambas- 
sadors, 16; presents demanded 
from them, 16; handsome 
women may be kissed by any- 
body, 16; generally low grade 
people,17 ; Johannes Trithem- 
lus quoted, 17-18; bad char- 
acter of the Swiss, 17; bold 
in war, mutually helpful in 
time of need, generous toward 
the poor, 18; Jacob Wimphel- 
ing quoted, 18; Swiss cruel 
and unjust, 18; Pirckheimer 
quoted on Swiss military prow- 





ess, 18, 39; Macchiavelli 
quoted on the same, Ig, 20; 
Guicciardini quoted on the 
same, 20, 21; and on evils of 
the mercenary service, 21; 
sumptuary laws, 22-24; gam- 
bling, betting, late hours, pro- 
fane swearing and cursing, 
wedding feasts of more than a 
day or above a certain cost all 
forbidden, regulations as to 
cost of presents to wedding 
guests or to those of christen- 
ing parties and as to dress, 22— 
24; dancing forbidden, 24; 
morals of the clergy, 24-31 ; 
not so bad as often depicted, 
25; episcopal action against 
priestly immorality and de- 
scription of grossly bad ac- 
tions, 25, 26; clerical extravy- 
agance and superstition, 26, 
27; drinking, gambling, and 
concubinage, 27; disposal of 
property of a ‘‘ witch” by the 
Diet, 27; dense ignorance of 
the clergy and their evil lives, 
28; simony and traffic in 
church property and prefer- 
ments, 29; defence by such a 
trafficker, 29, 30; the papal 
part in the transactions, 29- 
31; Switzerland and the Pa- 
pacy, 31-33; high papal es- 
teem at beginning of century 
owing to valour of Swiss mer- 
cenary troops, 32 ; misconcep- 
tion of the reason of their em- 
ployment, but participation in 
war of purely papal aggres- 
sion, papal payment, presents, 
and title to the troops, 32; 
impression made upon the 
Swiss unfavourable to the Pa- 
pacy, 32; independent action 
toward subsequent papal re- 
quests for mercenaries, 32, 33; 
insubordination to ecclesiasti- 
cal control, 33; why the In- 
quisition never was set up in 


488 Index to Introductory Chapter 


Switzerland— Continued 
Switzerland, 33; education, 
34-38 ; humanism in Switzer- 
land, 34-36 ; the University of 
Basel, 34; Basel’s prominence 
in printing, 35 ; Zurich’s much 
less so, 35 ; high schools few, 
36 ; primary schools defective, 
public schools non-existent, 
36; pay of teachers, 36; how 
private teachers supported 
themselves, 36, 37; fine arts 
and household decoration, 38; 
the cities, 38-40; how walls 
affected their political, social, 
and intellectual life, 38-40; 
Zurich, 40-47; how its loca- 
tion led to its leadership, 40; 
effect of the presence of for- 
eign ambassadors, 41; a mu- 
nicipal republic, 41; classes 
of citizens and their guilds, 
41, 42; city government, 42; 
constitution of the Small 
Council, 42, and of the Great, 
42, 43; functions, 43, 44; 
treatment of the clergy, 44; 
different attitude towards the 
people of religious leaders in 
Germany and Switzerland, 45; 


population of Zurich, 45; 
ecclesiastical divisions, 45 ; 
monks, clergy, and _ their 


wealth, 46; church buildings, 
46; general conditions which 
compelled and controlled the 





Reformation in Switzerland, 


7 
Switzerland, political condition 
of, from origin, 3-6 (see analy- 
sis of chapter) 


Trithemius, Johannes, Aznal- 
tum Hirsaugiensium (ed. St. 
Gall, 1690), quoted, 17, 18 

Turks, 32 


Unterwalden 4 
Uni, 4, 5 
Utinger, Canon, 37 


Venice, Republic of, 7 

Vienna, 34 

Vincent, J. M., ‘* European 
Blue Laws,” in Report of Am- 
erican Historical Association 
(Washington, 1897), quoted, 24 


Waldmann, Hans, 24 

Wimpheling, Jacob, quoted, 18 

Wittenbach, Thomas, 34 

Wolflin, Heinrich (Lupulus), 36 

Wunderli, G. H., Hans Wald- 
mann und seine Zett (Zurich, 
1889), quoted, 44-46 


Zug, 4 

Zurich, 4, 5, 23, 24, 33, 35-37, 
40-47 (see analysis of chapter) 

Zurichberg, 46 

Zurzach, 30 


Zwingli, 31, 34, 37, 40-44, 47 


INDEX 


This index covers all the book except the Introductory Chapter, 


which is separately indexed, 


In this index is biographical and geographical information which 


could not be conveniently given in the notes. 


Thus either in the 


body of the book or in the index every place in Switzerland of any 
importance in connection with the life of Zwingli has been so located 
that anyone can easily find it, and at least the principal dates of all 
important characters mentioned in the same connection will be 


found, 
A 
Aargau, 350 
Abtzell, see Appenzell 
Adda, 342 
Adelmann, Bernardus and Con- 
radus, 139 
Adrian VI., Pope, born in 


Utrecht, 1459 ; studied at Lou- 
vain, and there became pro- 
fessor of theology; tutor to 
Charles V., 1507; bishop of 
Tortosa, Spain, and cardinal, 
1516, and regent of Spain, 
1520; pope, January 9, 1522; 
died in Rome, September 14, 
1523, 174, 175, 177, 181 

“* Advice of one who desires with 
his whole heart that due con- 
sideration be paid both to the 
dignity of the Pope and to the 
peaceful development of the 
Christian religion,” 155 

A¥schines, 79 

Agen, seventy-three miles south- 
east of Bordeaux, France, 76 


Agricola (Castenpauer) Stephen, 
reformer, born in Augsburg, 
died in Eisleben in 1547, 314 

Albert, Count of Mansfeld, see 
Mansfeld 

Albis, hill, 355 

Alexander, 79 

Alexander VI. (Rodrigo Lanzol) 
born in Valencia, Pope 1492- 
1503, 85 

Ambrose, St., 107, I2I, 135,476 

Ammann, James, 142 

Ammann, John James, 66 

Anabaptists, see Baptists 

“Angel Dedication” at Ein- 
siedeln, 87, 100-102, 104, 174 

Anhalt, Wolfgang, Prince of, 
299, 337 

Anselm, St., 385 

Anselm, Thomas, printer, 149 

Anthropology, see Man, doctrine 
of, also under Luther 

Antiblon, 227-230 

Anwyl, Fritz von, 185 

** Apology,” 201 

Appenzell, 250, 251, 294 


489 


490 Index 


Aquinas, Thomas, 289, 368, 382 

Archeteles, 172; original edition 
full of printing errors, 278 

Archiv fiir die schwetserische 
Reformationsgeschichte, Frei- 
burg im Br., 1875, 76, 295 

Argentyne, Richard, 212 

Aristophanes, 135 

Aristotle, 135 

Arius, 279 

Arnold, Matthew, 86 

Atonement, doctrine of, 385 

Augsburg, 128, 139, 140, 212, 
259, 314 

Augsburg, Diet of, how attended, 
329-331; Zwingli’s absence, 
329-330; mutual mistrust be- 
tween Zwinglians and Luther- 
ans, 330-332; Lutherans and 
Zwingli present to Emperor 
Confessions of Faith, 331; 
Diet dissolved, 332; its ulti- 
matum to the Protestants, 336, 
349 

Augustine, St., 107, 368, 376, 476 

Augustinian monks, 146, 225 

Austria, Ferdinand, Grand Duke 


of, 300, 323, 337, 341 
Avignon, 170 


B 


Baden in Germany, 278 

Baden, in Switzerland, 64, 114, 
165, 188, 202, 212, 237; dis- 
putation at; struggle over the 
place ; the disputants ; results ; 
acts of, 270-277, 309, 327, 
330, 341 

Baptism discussed by Zwingli, 
393; does not convey grace, 
393; Christian baptism not 
different in purpose from Jo- 
hannean, 393, 394: infant bap- 
tism defended, 394, 395 

‘* Baptism, Re-Baptism, and In- 
fant Baptism,” 248, 256-258 

Baptists, original members of the 
party in Zurich, 240; their 


radical conduct, 240; their 





meetings, 240; valuable acces- 
sions, 24I ; their number, 241; 
first publicly heard in the Sec- 
ond Disputation, 241; de- 
mands, 241; Zwingli’s reply 
to, 242; secret conferences 
with, 242; influenced by 
Thomas Miinzer and Andrew 
Carlstadt to belief that infant 
baptism was unscriptural, 242 ; 
public dispute with, over their 
position and consequent prac- 
tice, 243; punished for refus- 
ing to have infants baptised, 
243; their private meetings 
forbidden and foreign mem- 
bers banished, 244; met se- 
cretly at Zollicon, 245 ; insti- 
tuted baptism of adults who it 
was claimed by their opponents 
had been previously baptised, 
245; the first adult baptism 
was by pouring, 245 ; descrip- 
tion of it, 245, 246; weekly 
debates with, 246; punish- 
ment of their leaders, 247 ; list 
of Zwingli’s writings against, 
248 ; allusions to, especially to 
Balthasar Hubmaier, their 
principal theologian, in Zwin- 
gli’s correspondence, 248-256; 
Appenzell a centre for the 
Baptist propaganda, 251; pun- 
ishment of the Baptist leaders, 
252; Zwingli’s book in Ger- 
man ‘‘ On Baptism,” analysed, 
257, 258; that in Latin, ‘‘ Re- 
futation of the tricks of the 
Catabaptists,” 258; origin of 
the epithet, 258 ; no discussion 
in either or any of the Zwingli 
treatises of the mode of bap- 
tism, 259; intercantonal dis- 
putation upon Baptists, 259; 
official statement of their al- 
leged errors and crimes, 260 ; 
punishment, 260, 261 ; Zwing- 
lis ‘‘ Refutation” analysed, 
261-264; his reply to 
Schwenckfeld’s questions on 


Index 


Baptists ( Continued ) 
baptism, 264; fate of the Bap- 
tist party in Zurich, 265 ; min- 
isters punished for accepting 
their views, 294 

Basel, 55, 57-595 78, 81, 85, 88, 
92, 96, 107, 108, 121, 124, 
129, 131, 139-142, 149, 156, 
I7I, 179, 185, 203, 206, 210- 
2E2, 214, 215, 226, 228, 258; 
269, 270, 272, 274, 277, 278, 
280, 283, 297, 301-305, 308- 
314, 323, 330, 334, 338, 349, 
360, 361 

Basel, Klein, 55 

Basel, Klein, St. 
Church in, 55 

Basel, St. Martin’s Church in, 
Sa 

Bath presents, 212 

Baur, August, Zwinghs Theo- 
logie, Halle, 1885-1889, 2 vols., 
311 

‘Beatrice of Marckelssheim, 351 

Beatus Rhenanus, see Rhenanus 

Benedictine monks, 50, 60, 61 

Bern, 56, 64, 93, 165, 166, 174, 
175, 203, 259, 270, 272, 274, 
B77 27d4 LOW Zoi 294,285), 
296, 323, 328-330, 345, 361 

Bern, Disputation of (1529), to 
all, members, leaders, 280- 
281; ‘‘Acts” analysed, 281- 
284; Church of the Barefoot 
Monks the scene of the Dispu- 
tation, 283; printing of al- 
luded to, 286 

Bern, Dominican monastery, 56 

Berus, Ludovicus, 142 

Biberach, 337 

Bible, see ‘‘ Perspicuity ” 

Bibliander, Theodore, born at 
Bischofzell, Thurgau, 1507; 
professor of theology in Zurich 
1531-1560; died of the plague 
there, November 26, 1564, 258 

Biel, 59, 60, 323 

Biel, Gabriel, 107, 156 

Bienne, see Biel 

Blansch, Martin, 185 


Theodore’s 





491 


Blarer, Anna, 360 

Blarer, Thomas, once burgomas- 
ter of Constance, 216, 360 

Blaurock, Georg, 245, 247, 262, 
263 : 

Boeschenstein, Andreas, 135 

Bombasius, Paul, I10, 112 

Bonstetten, Albrecht von, 102 

Brabant, 80, 81 

Brandenburg, the Margrave of, 
299 

Bremen, 316, 337 

Bremgarten, 124, 237, 347, 348 

Brendlin, Nicholas, 162, 236 

Brenz, Johann, born at Weil, 
Swabia, June 24, 1499; edu- 
cated at Heidelberg, became 
priest at Swabian Hall, 1522; 
introduced the Reformation 
there, 1524; became provost 
at Stuttgart, 1552; died there 
September II, 1570, 313, 314, 
317 

Bretini, M., 112 

Breviary simplified, 157 

Briefer, Nicholas, 283 

Broétli, 245 

Bruenig Pass, 351 

Brugg, 350 

Brunfels, Otho, 215 

Brunner, Rudolf, 73, 248 

Brunswick - Luneburg, Philip, 
Ernest, and Francis, Dukes 
of, 299, 337 

Bubikon, 154 

Bucer, see Butzer 

Buenzli, Gregory, 55, 94, 96 

Bullinger, Anna, wife of Ulrich 
Zwingli, Jr., 360 

Bullinger, Heinrich, father of 
Zwingli’s successor, 124 

Bullinger, Heinrich, born at 
Bremgarten, near Zurich, July 
18, 1504; studied at Cologne, 
embraced the Reformation, 
1522; became intimate with 
Zwingli while teaching at Cap- 
pel; pastor at Bremgarten, 
1529; succeeded Zwingli, 
1531; very friendly with the 


492 


Bullinger, Heinrich ( Continued) 
Marian exiles (1553-58); died 
at Zurich, September 17, 1575, 
348, 360 

Bullinger, Heinrich, Reforma- 
tionsgeschichte, Frauenfeld, 
1838-1840, 3 vols., 85, 110, 
LUG, wl2T #23124 Tey ewe, 
131, 135-137, 147, 150, 164, 
165, 172, 174, 193, 195, 196, 
200, 203-205, 224, 225, 230, 
239, 271, 285, 294, 303-305, 
310, 311, 313, 324, 342, 345, 
346, 348, 352, 357, 358, 360 

Burgundy, 90 

Burial practices, 291 

Butzer (Bucer), Martin, born at 
Schlettstadt, Lower Elsass, 
1491; entered the Dominican 
order, but embraced the Ref- 
ormation, 1518; left the order, 
1521 ; became pastor at Strass- 
burg, 1524; at first a Zwing- 
lian, after 1532 he leaned to 
Lutheranism; compelled to 
leave Strassburg, went to Eng- 
land, and became regius pro- 
fessor of divinity at Cambridge, 
where he died, February 28, 
1551, 145, 235, 248, 313, 314, 
318, 324, 329-331, 333-335, 
338, 339, 342, 348, 350 


(c 


Cajetan, Cardinal, original name 
Jacob de Vio, took name of 
Thomas ; born at Gaeta, forty 
miles north-west of Naples 
(hence his name Gaetano or 
Cajetan) July 25, 1470; made 
Dominican monk, 1486; car- 
dinal, 1517; met Luther at 
Augsburg, 1518; died in Rome, 
August 9, 1534, 140 

Calvin, John, born at Noyon, Pi- 
cardy, July 10, 1509; became 
a Protestant, published his 
Institutes, 1536, and the same 
year went to Geneva, where he 





Index 


acted the reformer: was ex- 
pelled, 1538; recalled, 1541, 
and reformed the city; died 
there, May 27, 1564, 223, 362 

Camerarius, Joachim, born at 
Bamberg, April 12, 1500; be- 
came professor in Leipzig, 
1541; died there April 17, 
1574, 300 

Camertes, John, 62 

‘* Canon (The) of the Mass,” 201 

Capito, Wolfgang Fabricius, born 
at Hagenau, Elsass, 1478; 
went over to the Reformation 
in Strassburg, 1524; was But- 
zer’s coadjutor there till his 
death, November 2, 1541, 60, 
129, 235, 242, 249, 309, 326, 
329, 331, 333, 335, 338, 347, 
350 

Capnio, see Reuchlin 

Cappel, 102, 205, 232, 269, 296, 
301, 302, 307, 340, 353, 354, 
358, 359 

Cappel War, First, between Zu- 
rich and the Forest Cantons, 
originated in the determin- 
ation of the latter to sup- 
press the Reformation, 301; 
ended before any blood was 
shed, 302; Zwingli’s plan for 
a treaty of peacc, 303; the 
treaty signed secured among 
other things free course for 
the Gospel, 304, 305; con- 
sidered humiliating by the five 
Forest Cantons, and therefore 
they bided their time to break 
it, 306; war cost paid by the 
five Forest Cantons, 340 

Cappel War, Second, followed 
inevitably upon the First, 341;. 
the grievances of the Forest 
Cantons, 341; embargo was 
adopted by Zurich and Bern to 
force the Forest Cantons to al- 
low free course to evangelical 
preaching as the treaty stipu- 
lated, 345; Zwingli opposed 
to the embargo, 346; out- 


Index 


Cappel War, Second ( Continued) 
siders worked for peace, 346, 
347 ; inside efforts to the same 
end, 347, 348 ; war manifestly 
approaching, 349; portents, 
350-352; Zurich adopts plan 
of campaign, 352; war breaks 
out, 352; Zurich forces meet 
the foe, 353, 354; battle joined, 
354, 355; defeat for the Zu- 
richers, 356; Zwingli slain, 
356-358; remarkable Zurich 
loss of prominent men, 358; 
end of the campaign, 359; 
second treaty of Cappel, 359 

Carlsruhe, 149 

Carlstadt, Andreas Rudolf Bo- 
denstein, born at Carlstadt, 
Franconia, 1480 (?); studied 
in Italy, settled at Witten- 
berg, 1504; became professor 
of theology there, 1508 ; went 
over to the Reformation, but 
for his eccentricities expelled, 
1522; found asylum in Switz- 
erland, became professor of 
theology in Basel, 1534 ; there 
died, 1541, 140, 242, 307, 316, 
330 

Carolinum, The, Zurich’s Great 
Minster School, 269 

Carthusian Monks, 196 

Casale, 93 

Cassel, 307 

Catabaptists, see Baptists 

Catherine of Aragon, 349; see 
also Henry VIII. 

Cato’s Morals, 55 

Celtes, Conrad, 57 

Censorship of Zurich clergy, 286 

Ceremonials, ecclesiastical, tol- 
erated, 478 

Charles the Bold, Duke of Bur- 
gundy, 9o 

Charles Vay 127,925,328, 6330- 
See also under The Emperor 

Christ, work of, discussed, 384 sg¢. 

Christen, E., Zwingh avant la 
réforme de Zurich, Geneva, 


1899, 89, 114 


. 


493 


Christian, Abbot of Old St. 
John’s, 60, 131, 140 

Christian Burgher Rights, 298 ; 
original members of the alli- 
ance, 323; Zwingli’s plans to 
extend the alliance, 323-325 ; 
how frustrated in certain states 
and cities, 325, 328; the Land- 
grave of Hesse excluded by 
Bern’s opposition, 329, 332; 
Strassburg welcomed, 329; 
the Landgrave renews appli- 
cation for admittance, 334; 
increasing perils make Zwingli 
more urgent to extend the al- 
liance, 340, 345 

Christianity defined, 384 

Christotiels Ray 12h yr 73, 
198, 248, 268, 305, 311 

Christology, 396-398 

Chrysoloras, Emanuel, 82 

Chrysostom, St., 121, 136 

Chur, 203, 210, 259, 326, 347 

Church, doctrine of, 387; 463- 
406; powers of the local 
church, 388; which is repre- 
sented in the board of city 
magistrates, may lay claim to 
infallibility, 388 

Church in Zurich, services, 290, 
291; adornments removed, 
292; polity, 297 

Churfirsten, mountain range, 53, 
54 

Cicero’s Letters, 63 

Clauser, Cunhart, 67 

Clergy in Zurich, dress of, 290, 
291 

Clergy, support of, 293 

“Clerical” marriages, 167 

Cochldus (Johann Dobeneck), 
born at Wendelstein, near Nur- 
emberg, 1479; strong Roman 
Catholic; died in Breslau, 
1552, 289 

Cochran, J., 305 

Coire, see Chur 

Collin, Rudolf, 310, 313, 315, 
326 

Cologne, 81, 92, 147, 188 


197, 


494 


Comander, 344 

‘‘Commentary on True and False 
Religion,” 220, 230, 269, 369, 
370; analysis of, 370 sgg. + 
begins with definition of relig- 
ion, makes theology proper the 
starting-point, 370; first con- 
siders God’s knowability, 370, 
371; this knowledge obtained 
from nature, 371; but believers 
aided by the Spirit, full know- 
ledge from the Bible, 371 ; dis- 
cussion biblical, 372; mean- 
ing of ‘‘ essence,” 372; attri- 
butes of God, 372; goodness 
of God active, 373, 374; be- 
nevolence and mercy of God, 
375; doctrine of man, 376, 
377; doctrine of sin, 377, 378 ; 
religion defined, 383 ; Christ- 
ianity defined, 384; the Gospel 
defined, 386; Law, keys, and 
the Church, 387 sgg.; local 
church represented in the city 
board of magistrates, is in a 
sense infallible, 388; did not 
deny doctrines he did not dis- 
cuss, as Luther supposed, 389 ; 
the Sacraments discussed, 389- 
395; three views rejected, 390; 
his own view stated, 390-392 ; 
faith discussed, 392, 
baptism discussed, 393-395 ; 
Lord’s Supper discussed, 395 ; 
its nature is that of a symbol, 
395 

Como, Lake, 342 

Complutensian Polyglot used by 
Eck in Baden, 276 

Compostella, 74 

Confession of Faith (1530), 331, 
332, 369, 378; text of, 452- 
484; topics: Of the Unity and 
Trinity of God, 453; Of Christ 
the Son of God and Man, 454- 
481; address to the Emperor, 
Princes, and Nobles, defending 
himself and urging them to al- 
low Gospel preaching, 481- 
484; the Church doctrine of 





393 5° 


Index 


the Duality affirmed, 454-456; 
of the Incarnation, 457, 458; 
Atonement, 458; sin intro- 
duced by Adam, 458-461; all 
who die in infancy, Christian 
or heathen, saved, 461, 462 

Conrad, Bishop of Constance, 
100 

Conrad III., Abbot of Einsie- 
deln, 102 

Conradson, 128 

Constance, 68, 73, 82, 99, 100, 
PLO; DIG wos W455 WAS ease. 
U6T, WO2; E65 1635) 27 Esk 0s 
179, 187, 189, 192, 195, 196, 
203, 210, 210 2260 23278250) 
259, 268, 271, 275, 280, 294, 
299, 332, 337, 338, 360 

Constance, Bishop of, see Hohen- 
landenberg 

Constance, Bishop, designate of, 
332 

Constantinople, 82 

Copp, Dr. Johannes, 292 

Cousard, John, 339 

Creighton, Mandell, story of 
the Papacy, vol. vi., 128 

‘*Crown of the Eucharist,” 230 

Cruciger, Caspar, born at Leip- 
zig, January I, 1504 ; professor 
at Wittenberg, Luther’s helper 
in Bible translations, also an 
expert shorthand writer ; died 
there, November 16, 1548, 314 

Curio, Valentine, 214 

Cyprian, St., 107 


D 


D’Angerant, 327 

Daugertin, 328, 345 

Death in Adam defined, 376, 377 

Demosthenes, 135 

Diessenhofen, 294, 295 

Dingnauer, Johann, 93 

Disputation, the First, the Sixty- 
seven Articles of, 180, 181; 
call to, 183-185; disputants 
and audience, 185, 186; bur- 
gomaster’s address, 186, 187; 


Index 


Disputation, the First (Con- 
tinued ) 

debate, 187-192; deliverance 
of the City Council, 190, IgT ; 
significance of the victory, 194, 

Disputation, the Second, 203 sgg. ; 
occasion, 203; invited guests, 
203, 204; proceedings, 204, 
205; finding of the Council, 
206, 207; effects, 208, 209 

Divorce, see Marriage 

Dominican monks, 172, 225 

Dongo, 342 

Dresden, 227 

Drowning, the punishment of 
Baptist leaders, 247, 252 

Dens Scotus, 107, 141, 289 


E 


Eck, Johannes, born at Eck, 
Swabia, November 13, 1486; 
studied at Heidelberg, Tii- 
bingen, and Freiburg, became 
professor of theology at Ingol- 
stadt, I510; vigorously and 
learnedly opposed the Reform- 
ation, frequently as a public 
disputant, died at Ingolstadt, 
Bavaria, February 10, 1543, 
139, 140, 143, 145, 185, 271, 
273, 274, 276, 280, 320, 332 

Edlibach, Gerold, Chronik, ed. 
Usteri, Zurich, 1847, 292 

‘‘ Education, Christian,” 212, 


Education theories of Zwingli, 
399-401 

Effingen, Elizabeth, 284 

Eglhi, Emil, Actensammlung, Zu- 


rich, 1879, 54, Byis 58, 76, 112, | 
157, 160, 164, 175, 176, 196, | 


200, 224, 239, 244, 267, 286, 
289, 291, 2904 
Egli, Emil, Azalecta Reforma- 


toria,i., Zurich, 1899, 76, 330 | 
Egh, Emil, Dze Schlacht von 


Cappel, Zurich, 1879, 350, 358 
Einsiedeln, 65, 91, 94-96, 98- 
I00, 102, 104-106, 108-110, 








-495 


113-115, IIQ-12I, 135, 
159, 165, 174, 217, 224 

Eisenach, 171 

Eisleben, birthplace of Luther, 
50 

Election, discussed, 383 ; rather 
than faith the justifying prin- 
ciple, 382 

Elmer, 66 

Elsass, 215, 349 

Embrach, 206 

Emerton, Ephraim, Zvrasmuts, 
New York, 1899, 81, 130 

Emperor, The, 324, 326, 329, 
331-333, 340, 341, 343, See 
also under Charles V. 

Emser, Jerome, born at Ulm, 
1477; professor in Erfurt; 
since I5TO lived in Dresden ; 
earnest opponent of the Re- 
formation; died in Dresden, 
November 8, 1527, 227, 230 

Engelhard, Dr. Heinrich, 151, 
152, 202, 206, 243, 253, 255,335 

English Sweat, 319 

Ennenda, 68 

Ennius, 150 

Lpichtresis, 230, 279 

Eppendorf, Henry, 219 

Erasmus of Rotterdam, born 
there, 1467; educated at the 
monastery of Steyn, Holland ; 
began in Paris his career as 
humanist which was to result 
in making him the literary 
king of papal Europe, 1492 ; 
led a wandering life the rest 
of his days, being in England, 
France, Italy, Germany, and 
finally in Switzerland, but 
one of incessant and most use- 
ful literary activity ; died in 
Basel, 1536, 78-81, 86, 87, 93, 
121, 135, 145, 159, 197, 213- 
217, 219-220, 260); on liree 
Will, 368 

Erichson, A., Zwingh’s Tod und 
dessen Beurthetlung durch 
Zettgenossen, Strassburg, 1883, 
361 


149, 


406 . 


Ernest, Duke of Brunswick- 
Luneburg, see  Brunswick- 
Luneburg 


Escher, Hans, 232 

Escher, Hermann, Dze Glau- 
bensparteien, Frauenfeld, 1882, 
325 

Esslingen, 331 

Ethics, developed 
Zwingli, 399 

Etzel, mountain, 99 

Eucharist, see Lord’s Supper 

‘*Exhortation, An earnest, ad- 
dressed to the confederates not 
to suffer themselves to come 
into dishonour through the 
wiles of their foes,’’ 164 

‘““Explanation of the Christian 
Faith,” 369, 370, 385-387 

‘* Exposition and Proof of the 
Conclusions or Articles,” 98, 
197, 369 


little by 


F 


Faber Johannes (properly Hei- 
gerlin), born at Leutkirch, near 
Lake Constance, 1478 ; studied 
at Tiibingen and Freiburg ; 
became vicar-general of Con- 
stance, 1516; vigorously and 
skilfully opposed the Reform- 
ation, wrote MWZalleus in he- 
resim  Lutheranam, 1524, 
whence came his epithet, 
‘“‘Hammer of the Heretics,” 
became bishop of Vienna, 
1530; died near there, May 
21, 1541, 106, 125, 127, 143, 
179, 185, 187-189, I9I, 193, 
273, 274, 289 

Fabri, see Faber 

Fabricius, 161 

Faith, 382, 391, 392, 468 

Falconibus, William a, 142, 148 

Falk, G. von, 112 

Falk, Peter, 93 

Farer, Blasius, 61, 67 

Fasting, 160, 161; sermon on, 
404-451; analysis: fasting, 








Index 


first unobserved by some of 
Zwingli’s hearers, 405; the true 
Scripture doctrine set forth, 
406-414 ; objections as to time 
of, 414-422; Scripture proof 
that everyone is. at liberty to 
fast when he pleases, 415-4109 ; 
objection that people will never 
fast if allowed meat in Lent, 
421-423 ; Concerning the com- 
mandment of men, 423-425; 
antiquity of obligatory fasting 
denied, 423-425 ; privilege of 
omitting fasting purchasable, 
424; Of offence or vexation, 
biblical exegesis on, 425-435 ; 
Of avoiding vexation, biblical 
exposition of cases, 435-442 ; 
Of being offended at innocent 
customs, 442-448; Whether 
anyone has power to eee 
foods, 448-451 

Fees for ecclesiastical services 
abolished, 200 

Ferdinand, Grand Duke of Aus- 
tria, see Austria 

Finsler, Georg, 155, 193 

Fischingen, 60, 94, 96 

Fislisbach, 188, 192 

Five Forest Cantons (Uri, 
Schwyz, Unterwalden, Lu- 
zern, and Zug) oppose the 
Reformation and join with the 
Reformed Cantons in two 
wars, 272, 273, 296, 300, 302, 
303, 305, 306, 324, 328, 340, 
341, 343-345, 347-349, 352, 
B53 S07. 

Flodden Field, 358 


Florence, 84, III 

Forest Cantons, see Five Forest 
Cantons 

France, 269, 324-326 


Francis, Duke of Brunswick- 
Luneburg, see  Brunswick- 
Luneburg 


Francis I., King of France, 92, 
230, 269, 324, 326, 328, 345- 
347 


| Franciscan monks, 146, 170, 225 


Index 


Frankfort, 277, 288, 307 

Frauenfeld, 196, 294, 325 

Freiburg (in Switzerland), 93, 
142, 327 

Freiburg im Br., 295 

Freienbach, 96 

Fridolin, 63 

Friedewald, 307 

“‘ Friendly defence and depreca- 
tion of the sermon of the ex- 
cellent Martin Luther 
preached in Wittenberg 
against the Fanatics, and to 
defend the reality of the Body 
and Blood in the Sacrament,” 
278 

‘Friendly Exegesis” of Luther’s 
view of the Lord’s Supper, 
278 

Froben, John, the printer, 135, 
142 

Frosch, John, 237 

Froschauer, Christopher, the 
printer of Zurich, 160, 212, 
215, 258, 281 

Fuessli, Beytraege, 236, 244 

Fuessli, Johann, 154, 310 

Fueter, Edward, Der Anteil 
der Etdgenossenschaft an der 
Wahl Karls V., Basel, 1899, 
127 

Bulda, K., 212 

Funk, Ulrich, 312 

Furrer, Konrad, 326 

Fiirstenburg, Count 
von, 319 


Wilhelm 


G 


Gebweiler, 185, 194 

Geneva, 64, 269, 339, 362 

Germany, 177, 234, 238, 299, 
324 

Germany, North, 324; South- 
ern, 296, 297, 324, 336, 361 

Geroldseck, see Hohengerold- 
seck 

Ghent, 339 

Gieseler, J. K. L., Church His- 
tory, 299 

32 





497 


Glareanus, 69, 78, 80-82, 92, 96, 
{Ole TOS oT lt F229" T6040 182) 
185, 193, 194, 211, 214, 215, 
220, 233, 234 

Glarus, 58, 61, 62, 64, 66-69, 
71-73, 80, 81, 87, 88, 90, 
Oi 93, 90 OS) Tht kts, 
II5, I19, 120, 159, 197, 302, 
306 

God, doctrine of, the starting- 
point of Zwingli’s theology, in 
distinction to Luther’s, which 
begins with anthropology, 370; 
God’s knowability, 370, 371; 
this knowledge comes from 
nature, so to the heathen, but 
fully not from philosophy but 
the Bible, and is mediated by 
the spirit to the believer, 371 ; 
discussion therefore biblical, 
S720 TESSeNGEs, 637258 attri- 
butes, 372-375; goodness, 
373; benevolence and mercy, 
375 

Géldli, George, 353-355 

Géldli, Heinrich, 68 

G6tzinger, Ernst, Zwet Kalen- 
der von Fahre 1527, Schaft- 
hausen, 1865, 292 

Goostow, 351 

Gospel, defined, 386 

Gotha, 314, 337 

Grace in the Sacraments, 467- 
470 

Granson, 90 

Grebel, Conrad, 57, 122, 240, 
242, 245, 247, 252, 276 

Grebel, Felix, 125 

Grebel, Jacob, 252, 276 

Greek, Zwingli’s study of, 81 
sq. 

Gregory, 63 

Grisons, the, 154, 267, 341-343 

Groningen, 351 

Grossmann, see Megander 

Grueningen, province, 206 

Gryneus, 258, 350 

Gualther, Rudolf, 360 

Guise, 324 

Gynoreeus, Peter, 252 


498 
H 


Haessi, Heinrich, 73 

Hagenau, 349 

Hall, 314 

Halle, 326 

Haller, Berthold, the Reformer 
of Bern, born at Aldingen, 
Wiirtemberg, 1492; became 
people’s priest at Bern, 1520; 
openly joined the Reformers, 
1522; died in Bern, Switzer- 
land, February 25, 1536, 56, 
60, 64, 165, 170, 274, 281 

Haner, John, 300 

Hassencamp, F. W., Franciscus 
Lambert von Avignon, Elber- 
feld, 1860, 171 

Hebrew, Zwingli’s study of, 149, 
150 

Hedio, Caspar, born at Ett- 
lingen, Baden, 1493; studied 
theology at Freiburg and Ba- 
sel, became preacher in the 
Strassburg cathedral, 1523; 
active in introducing the Re- 
formation ; died there October 
17, 1552, 108, 156, 215, 313, 
314, 318 

Hell, doctrine of an eternal, 480, 
481 

Hegenwald, Erhard, 192-194 

Heggentzi, George, 153 

Heilbronn, 299 

Henry VIII., divorce from Cath- 
erine of Aragon, varying judg- 
ments upon, by the Reformers, 
349, 350 

Herminyard, A. L., Correspon- 
dance des Réformateurs dans 
les Pays de langue Francaise, 
Paris, 2nd ed., 1878 sgg., 92, 
269 

Herrstein, 312 

Hesiod, 135 

Hess, 236 

Hess, Salomon, Azua Reinhard, 
2nd ed., Zurich, 1820, referred 
to, 231, 360 

Hesse, Philip, Landgrave of, 





Index 


I7I, 214, 296, 299, 300, 306- 
314, 317-319, 322, 324, 325, 
327-329, 331, 332, 336-338 
Hesse-Nassau, 337 
Hetzer, Ludwig, 203 
Heyerhansen, 185 


- Hilary, St., 149 


Hinke, Rev. Prof. William J., 
69 

Hochrutiner, Lawrence, 207 

Hofmann, Conrad, Canon, 160, 
168, 223, 236 

Hofmeister, Sebastian, 204, 253- 
255 


Hohengeroldseck, Theobold 


(Diebold) von, 94, 95, 
I20, 201 

Hohenlandenberg, Hugo von, 
Bishop of Constance, 68, 106, 
LLOF L255 EOL, LOG. FOS hpi 
I74, 181, 186, 189, 190, 195, 
196, 203, 210, 226, 233 

Hohenlohe, 324 

Hohenstein, 174 

Holy days retained in Zurich, 
202 

Homer, 135 

Hongg, 206 

Horace, 135 

Hottinger, J. J., Melvetische 
Kirchengeschichte, Zurich, 
1708-1738, 4 parts, 72 

Hottinger, J. H., Historia eccles- 
zas, Zurich, 1655-67, 9 vols., 
95, 126 

Hottinger, J. J., third Life of 


102, 


Zwingl, Harrisburg, Pa., 
1856, 305 
Hottinger-Wirz,  Helvetische 


Kirchengeschichte, Zurich, 
1808-1819, 5 vols., 68 
Hubmaier, Balthasar, the theo- 
logian of the Swiss Baptists, 
originally Zwingli’s friend, 
243, 246; put in prison for his 
Baptist views, 249; forced by 
torture to recant before the 
Council, 249; tortured, 250; 
came from Waldshut, 252; de- 
bate with, 253, 254; alleged 


Index 


Hubmaier, Balthasar 
tinued ) 

recantation, 254; denied it, 
255; punished afresh, re- 
canted his recantation, sent out 
of the territory, with money 
from the Council, 255, 256; 
calumniated Zwingli at Con- 
stance, 256; another tale of 
trial of, 276 

“Hubmaier’s], Dr. Balthasar, 
booklet on Baptism honestly 
and thoroughly answered,” 248 

Hus, John, 145 

Hutten, Ulrich von, 213-220 


( Con- 


I 


Images, treatment of, 202, 208, 
209, 478 

Imperial election, 127, 128 

Indulgences, 59 ; preaching of, in 
Switzerland, 106, 107, 124- 
127 

Infallibility, 388 

Infant salvation of heathens as 
well as Christians, 461-463 

Ingolstadt, 271 

Innocent VIII., 
1492), 84 

Intercantonal intercourse, 297 

“‘TIntroduction (A short Christ- 
ian) which the honourable 
Council of the City of Zurich 
has sent to the pastors and 
preachers that they 
in unison preach the 
gospel to their dependents” 
207, 369 

‘‘Tsaiah,” commentary on, 289 

Isny, 337 

Israel, August, 212 

Issna, 299 

Ittingen, 196 


Pope (1484- 


J 


Jacobs, Rev. Prof. Dr. H. E., 
148, 332 





499 


Jacobus, 316 

Jacoby, Professor Harold, as- 
tronomer, Columbia Univer- 
sity, New York, 277 

Janssen, Geschichte des Deut- 
schen Volkes; An metne 
Kritiker, 167 

Jena, 349 

Jerome, St., 79, 107, 122, 136 

Jerusalem, 74 

John, 63 

John, Elector of Saxony, see 
Saxony 

Jonas, Justus, born at Nordhau- 
sen, June 5, 1493; intimate 
friend of Luther’s; provoost 
of Wittenberg, 1521-1541 ; 
died at Eisfeld, October 9, 
1555, 314, 318 

Jérgen, 284 

Jud, Leo, born at Gemar, EI- 
sass, 1482; studied at Basel, 
became people’s priest at Ein- 
siedeln, 1518; of St. Peter’s, 
Zurich, 1522; died there June 
IQ, 1542, 60, 120, 194, 195, 
202, 206, 236, 243, 253-255, 
293, 335-339 

Julius II., Pope (1503-1513), 
104, 114 

Justification by faith as defined 
by Luther fitted into the sys- 
tem of theology, 365, 366; 
doctrine held as clearly by 
Zwingli, 367 


K 


Kaserruck, mountain, 54 

Katzenellenbogen, 307 

Keller, Anna, 284 

Keller, Hans Balthasar, 232 

Kempten, 299 

Kesselmann, 285 

Kessler, Johannes, Saddata, ed. 
Gotzinger, St. Gall, 1870, 
122, 294 

Keys, doctrine of the, 387 

Keyser, Jacob, 305 

Kilchberg, 93 


500 


Kilchmeier, Jodocus, 169, 177 

Klingnan, 244 

Knaake, J. K. F., ed. Deutsche 
Theologie, Weimar, 1883, 139 

Knonau, twenty miles south- 
west of Zurich, 232 

Kochersberg, 312 

Koenig, Conrad, publisher, of 
Jena, 349 

Kolb, Francis, 281, 283, 286 

Kostlin, Julius, Martin Luther, 
Elberfeld, 1875, 2 vols., 88 

Kiissnacht, on the west bank of 
the lake four and one half 
milessouth-west of Zurich, 206, 
217, 219, 283 


L 


La Bicocca, 164 

“‘ Labyrinth, The,” 70 

Lactantius’s De Opificium, 62 

Lambert, Francis, 153, 170 

Landenberg, see Hohenlanden- 
berg 

Landolt, Huldreich, 73 

Lausanne, 226, 280, 360 

Lavater, Rudolph, 352, 354, 355 

Law of love, 387 

Leipzig, 140, I41, 143, 145, 274 

Lent, 163 

Leo X., Pope (1513-1521), III, 
125, 128, 151 

Lichtenberg, 312 

Lichtensteig or Liechtensteig, 57 

Liliis, John James a, 63 

immatyanivers ry 232. 
255, 296 

Lindau, 280, 299, 332, 337, 338 

Liturgy, discovery as to lack of 
uniformity in, 88 

Livy, 79 

Lord’s Supper, Zwingli’s theory 
suggested by Erasmus, 85, 201; 
discovery in regard to its ob- 
servance, 87, 88; supersedes 
the mass in Zurich, 209; ob- 
served according to primitive 
rites, 229 ; theory of, discussed 


252, 


Index 


by Zwingli against Erasmus, 
269; Pirkheimer, 275; Luther, 
276, 287-289 ; Zwingli’s theory 
similar to Schwenckfeld’s, 287; 
Lutherans and Roman Catho- 
lics anxious to suppress it, 300; 
the failure to agree to the 
Lutheran theory the reason 
why the Reformed did not join 
the Schmalkald League, 333, 
339; vain efforts to make a 
formula in which all Protest- 
ants could unite, 334; Butzer’s 
and Zwingli’s suggestions, 334, 
335; the Tetrapolitan, 338; 
Zwingli’s theory not long 
held by many, 361 ; discussed, 
395 ; its nature that of a sym- 
bol, 395; doctrine of, in Zwin- 
gli’s confession of the true 
body of Christ present in it by 
the contemplation of faith, but 
in other sense ubiquity denied, 
470 sqg., patristic witnesses to 
theory, 476-478 

Loriti, Heinrich, same as Glar- 
eanus 

Loserth, Wich f and Hus, Lon- 
don, 1884, 145 

Louvain, 139, 147, 188 

Liibeck, 337 

Lucerne, see Luzern 

Luchsinger, 66 

Lucian, 135 

Lucius, 141 

Lucius, St., 149 

Lukas, Master, 95 

Lupulus, see Woelflin 

Luther, Martin, born at Eisleben, 
November 10, 1483; studied at 
Erfurt; became an Augustinian 
monk there, 1505; professor 
at Wittenberg, 1508; posted 
ninety-five Theses on Indulg- 
ences for university disputa- 
tion, 1517; thus entered on 
career as Reformer; died at 
Eisleben, February 18, 1546, 
50, 56, 59, 108, 129, 130, 139- 
143, 145, 147-149, 155, 156, 


Index 


Luther, Martin (Continued) 
17T, 177, 179, 188, 197, 214, 
223, 227, 277-279, 287, 288, 
300, 307, 309, 313-317, 319- 
322, 324, 330, 336, 349, 357, 
389, 395-399; his theology : 
justification by faith, 367; 


predestination and bondage 
of the will, 368; has an- 
thropological starting-point, 


370; theology proper less 
broad than Zwingli’s, 380 ; 
sacramental teaching, 391, 
392 ; contrast to Zwingli, 395—- 
399 

“Lutheran” epithet repudiated, 
197 

Luzern, 143, 203, 271, 272, 275, 
300, 351 

Lyons, 170 

M 

Mad, Marcus, 73 

Magdeburg, 337 

Magistrates, civil, representa- 
tives of the local church, 388 ; 
doctrine concerning, in Zwin- 
gli’s Confession of Faith, 479, 
480 

Maienfeld, 247 

Maigret, Lambert, 
345 

Mainz, 148, 152, 215 

Man, Zwingli’s doctrine of, 376, 
377; agrees with Augustine’s, 
but with marked individuality 
of conception, 376 

Mansfeld, Gebhard and Albert, 
Counts of, 337 

Mantz, Caspar, 153 

Manz, Felix, 240, 241, 247 

Marburg, 171, 307-309, 313, 316, 
319, 321, 324, 334, 360 

Marburg, Colloquy of, proposed 
by the Landgrave of Hesse, 
307 ; arrangements for, 307 ; 
vain endeavour by Zwingli to 
have the place changed, 308 ; 
Zwingli definitely promises to 


327, 328, 





501 


come, 309; leaves without 
permission of the City Coun- 
cil, 310; his journey and com- 
panions, 310-313; disputants 
and colloquy, 313-319; Lu- 
ther refuses to take the Swiss 
as brethren, 316, 317; but not 
as friends, 318 ; Zwingliclaims 
the victory, 319-322 ; topics in 
debate, 320-322, 395, 398 

Marckelssheim, 351 

Marignano, 76 

Marriage and divorce ordinance 
in Zurich, 267, 268 

Marriage of clergy, 195, 199 

Marriage of Zwingli, 231 

Mary, Virginity of, see Perpet- 
ual, 

Mass, 208; abolished in Zurich, 
229 

Mauritius, 100 

Maximilian, Emperor, 127 

Medeghino, 342 

Medici, Giovanni-Giacomo de’, 
the Tyrant of Musso, 342-344 

Megander, Caspar, born at Zu- 
rich, 1495 ; studied at Basel, 
became preacher in Zurich, 
accepted the Reformation, be- 
came professor of theology at 
Bern, 1528; returned to Zu- 
rich, 1537; became dekan of 
the Great Minster, died there 
August 18, 1545, 64, 253, 
255, 335 

Meili, Johann, 50, 60, 94, 96 

Meinrad, St., 99, 100, 102 

Meisenheim, 312, 313 

Melanchthon, Philip, born at 
Bretten in Baden, February 
16, 1497; studied at Heidelberg 
and Tiibingen; became pro- 
fessor at Wittenberg, 1518; 
died there April 19, 1560, 85, 
179, 212, 227, 300, 307, 314, 
316, 319, 320, 330, 350 

Memmingen, 280, 299, 332, 337, 
338 

Mercenary military traffic, 90 

Merit, doctrine of, 365 


502 


Merle d@’ Aubigné, History of the 
Reformation, ed. Edinburgh, 
1853, il., 132, 305 

Metellus Macedonius, Quintus 

Ceecilius, 63 

Metz, 171 

Meyer, Sebastian, 175 

Meyer von Knonau, Agatha, 

232; Margaretha, 232, 285 

Meyer von Knonau, Gerold, 211, 

Pde, WIAs GAGs} 

Meyer von Knonau, Hans, 231, 

232; children of, 236 

Milan, 71, 72, 76, 82, 88, 164 

Milan, Francesco Sforza II., 

Duke of, 342-346 

““Mill, The,” poem, 154 

Ministers, worthy, 479 

Mirandola, 84 

Mitloedi, 68 

Mollis, 87, 88 

Monks and nuns; monasteries 
and nunneries sources of op- 
position to the Reformation ; 
treatment of, 50, 53, 56, 60, 61, 
63, 146, 147, 170-173, 1096, 
225, 295, 296 

Monza, 76 

Morat, go 

Morbegno, 342 

Morikofer, Johann Caspar, U/- 

rich Zwingl, Leipzig, 1867- 

1869, 2 parts, 267, 311 

Moses of Winterthur, 226 

Miilhausen, 215-217, 228, 305, 

323 

Miller, George, 351, 352 

Munerian law, 286, 287 

Miinzer, Thomas, 241, 242 

Murer, Anton, 73 

Murer, Johann, 153 

Murer, Melchior, 73 

Murner, Thomas, born at Strass- 
burg, 1475; studied at Paris; 
entered priesthood, 1494; de- 
termined foe to the Reform- 
ation; died at Oberehnheim, 
August 23, 1537, 275 

Music, Zwingli’s passion for, 
56; vocal and instrumental, 








Index 


banished from the Zurich 
churches, 290 

Musso, 342-344 ; see Medici 

Musso War, 341-344; attitude 
of the Forest Cantons towards, 
343 

Myconius, Friedrich, born at 
Lichtenfels, Upper Franconia, 
December 26, 1490; prominent 
Lutheran historian; died at 
Gotha, April 7, 1546, 314 


Myconius, Oswald, Zwingli’s 
friend and biographer, born at 
Luzern, Switzerland, 1488; 


taught there and at Zurich, 
became pastor and professor 
at Basel in 1532, and died 
there October 14, 1552, 53, 
56-58, 64, 66, 82, 55, 89, 90, 
II7-I1g, 122, 123, 130, 135, 
136, 141, 143, #45, 147, 153, 
156, 164, 168, 169, 214, 234, 
253, 254, 275, 293, 357 


N 


Nepos, James, 142, 21I 

Nesen, William, 214 

Netstall, 68 

New York City, 277 

Nédlingen, 299 

Novara, 72 

Nunneries, see Monks 

Nuchelen, Jo., 112 

Nuremberg, 176, 177, 188, 215, 
275, 299, 314, 346 


O 


Oberbolingen, 99 

Oechsli, 274 

GEcolampadius (Grecised 
from Heussgen, same as Haus- 
schein), Johannes, born at 
Weinsberg, Wiirtemberg, 
1482 ; studied at Heidelberg, 
Tiibingen, and Stuttgart, be- 
came preacher at Basel, 1516 ; 
at Augsburg, 1518; monk at 
Altenmiinster; declared him- 


Index 


CEcolampadius (Continued) 
self for the Reformation, went 
to Basel, 1522, where he was 
professor of theology, 
preacher in the cathedral, and 
Reformer, and where he died 
November 24, 1531, 179, 215, 
221, 237, 242, 248, 258, 260, 
272, 274, 275, 280, 307-309, 
313-315, 317-322, 324, 330, 
335, 348-350 

Oetenbach, 225 

Organs removed from the Zurich 
churches, 290 

Origen, 121, 136 

Osiander, Andreas, 314 

‘* Ox and the other Beasts,” 70 


P 


Panizzone, 343, 345 

Papal Pension, of Zwingli, 72, 
114 sgg.; of other clergy re- 
nounced, 177 

Paris, 63, 147, 188 

Patristic witnesses to denial of 
the doctrine of Christ’s ubiq- 
uity, 476-478 

Paul, Martin, 342 

Paulinus, A, 121 

Pavia, 72, 93, 137 

Peasant troubles, 197, 228, 238 

Pellican, Conrad, born at Ruf- 
fach, Elsass, January 8, 1478 ; 
became a Cordelier monk, 
1493 ; professor of Hebrew at 
Basel, 1522, and then at Zu- 
rich, 1526, where he embraced 
the Reformation, and died 
April 6, 1556, 60, 150 

Pensions, pensionaries, and mer- 
cenary military service, 123, 
136-139, 164; forbidden by 
Zurich, 175 

‘Perpetual Virginity of Mary 
the Mother of Jesus Christ our 
Saviour,” 173 

‘*Perspicuity and Certainty, or 
Infallibility, of the Word of 
God,” 173 








593 


Peter, St., story of, 51 

Peter Lombard, 58, 63 

Petition for papal dispensations 
of privileges, 73-76 

“Petition to allow priests to 
marry,” 166 

Petri, Adam, 139, 141 

Pfaefers, 64, 65, 131, 216 

Pfaeffikon, 94, 96 

Pfeffingen (same as Pfaeffikon), 
6 


9 
Pforzheim, 149 


Philip, Duke of Brunswick- 
Luneburg, see  Brunswick- 
Luneburg 


Philip, Landgrave of Hesse, see 
Hesse 

Philip, Marquis of Baden, 278 

Phrygia, 149 

Pico della Mirandola, Giovanni, 
84, 85 

Pindar, 135, 270 

Pirkheimer, 237, 274 

Plague in Switzerland, 131, 360; 
in Marburg, 319 

Plato, 108, 135 

Pliny, 62 

Poitiers, 149 

Poor-relief law in Zurich, 267 

Pope, 324, 326 

‘Preacher, Office of the,” 248, 
268 

Preaching, true, 478, 479 

‘* Protestants, "epithet explained, 
299 

‘Providence, Divine,” 369; 
‘doctrine of, in the treatise dis- 
cussed, 378 sgqg., second causes 
entirely denied, 379; God in 
His world, 379, 380; divine 
causality not destructive of re- 
sponsibility, 380-382; election, 
382 

Prugner, Nicholas, 217 

Pucci, Antonio, 92, 93, III, 112, 
148, 150 

Purgatory repudiated, 480 

Putnam, G. H., Books and their 
Makers in the Middle Ages, 
N. Y., 1897, 2 vols,, 149, 349 


504 
Q 


‘*Questions on the Sacrament of 
Baptism” (by Schwenckfeld), 
248, 264 


R 


Rapperswyl, 69, 217 

Ravenna, 72 

Ravensburg, 176 

Reformation : doctrine first 
preached by Zwingli, 108; 
in morals and doctrine de- 
clared necessary, 109, I10; 
prohibited, 165; yet spreads, 
174; gradually introduced into 
Zurich, 200, 201; adherents 
of, threatened by the Diet, 
202; completed in Zurich by 
order of the Council, 223, 224; 
determination of the five For- 
est Cantons to uproot it, 300, 
301; the two Cappel wars, 
301, 345 ; entrance of evangel- 
ical preaching into the Forest 
Cantons’ territory secured by 
the first treaty of Cappel, 303; 
the Reformation a _ protest 
against the Roman doctrinal 
system and a contribution to 
theology, 365 

Reformatory zeal rebuked when 
excessive, 405 

‘* Refutation of the tricks of the 
Catabaptists,” 248, 258, 261- 
2055 

Regius, see Rhegius 

Reichenau, 99 

Reichenbach, Alcide, 212 

Reinhard, Anna, Zwingli’s wife, 
231, 233-235, 360 

Reisigen, 342 

Religion defined, 383 

Renaissance, 367 

Rennweg, 154, 310 

““ Reply to Luther’s Confession 
on the Lord’s Supper,” 287- 
289 

Responsibility, 
cussed, 380-382 


human, _ dis- 








Index 


Reuchlin, Johann, born at Pforz- 
heim, Baden, February 22, 
1455; eminent as a humanist, 
and long unique as a Hebrew 
scholar; attacked by the Do- 
minicans as a heretic but ac- 
quitted by the Pope; declined 
to accept the Reformation ; 
died at Stuttgart, June 30, 
1523, 149 

Reuss river, 352 

Reutlingen, 299, 337 

Rheetia, see Grisons 

Rhegius (Regius), Urbanus, born 
at Langenargen, on Lake 
Constance, May, 1489; was 
crowned poet by Emperor 
Maximilian, ordained priest, 
1519; went over to the Re- 
formation, and became pastor 
at Augsburg, 1520; settled in 
North Germany, 1530; intro- 
duced the Reformation into 
Celle, Hanover, where he died 
May 27, 1541, 125, 237, 289 

Rheinfels, 313 

Rhenanus Beatus, 107, 128, 140, 
142, 150, 170 

Rhine, 313 

Rhine Valley, 294 

Rigg, J. M., Grovanni Pico della 
Mirandola, London, 1890, 84 

‘*Righteousness, Divine and 
Human,” 198 

Ringholz, Odilo, Wallfahrtsge- 
schichte unserer leben Frau 
von Einsiedeln, Freiburg im 
Br., 1896, 99, 103, 104 

Ritter, Erasmus, 236 

Rocca di Musso, 342 

Roman Church, doctrine of in- 
fallibility, 388; of sacraments, 
391, 392 

Rome, 74, 79, 125, 126, 128, 149, 
182 

Rottenburg, 99 

Rotterdam, 78, 80, 220 

Roéubli, William, 195, 245 

Roust, Diethelm, burgomaster 
of Zurich, 281 


Index 


Rousseau, Jean Jacques, 53 

Rovere, Leonard dela, Cardinal, 
76 

Rubeis, C., 76 

Rudlig, Hans, 61 

Ruffet, Louis, Vie de Francis 
Lambert, Paris, 1873, 171 

Rumlary, Eberhard von, 286 


S 


‘«Sacramentarians,” the epithet 
applied to the Zwinglians by 
Lutherans and Roman Catho- 
lics, 299 

Sacraments, liturgy of, 291 ; doc- 
trine of, 389-395 ; three views 
rejected, 390; Zwingli’s view: 
the sacrament is a dedication 
and a consecration and a pub- 
lic setting of the person apart, 
390; hence has no power to 
liberate the conscience, 390 ; 
nature of the sacramental ele- 
ments not a question of faith, 
over against Luther and Rome, 
391, 392; doctrine of, in Zwin- 
gli’s Confession of Faith, 466- 
470 

Saenger, Martin, 154 

St. Gall, 61, 63, 203, 204, 231, 
242, 244, 256, 259, 260, 271, 
277, 278, 280, 283, 294, 299, 
305, 323, 341 

St, Goan, 313 

St. John’s, Old, 50,.60, 61, 63— 
65, 140 

St. Katherinenthal, 295 

Sallust, 135 

Samson, Bernhardin, 106, 107, 
124-126, 310 

Sander, Cardinal, 118, 119, 140 

Savoy, 339, 348 

Saxony, John, Elector of, 299, 
337, 338 

Schade, Oscar, Satiren und Pas- 
guille aus der Reformations- 
zeit, 2nd ed., Hanover, 1863, 
3 vols., 155 








5°95 


Schaff, Philip, Creeds of Christ- 
endom, 183, 338 

Schaff, Philip, Azstory of the 
Christian Church, vol. vii., 
I21, 133, 305, 349 

Schaffhausen, 203, 204, 206, 236, 
242, 271, 274, 278, 280, 292, 
323 

Schappeler, 204 

Schenkenberg, 350 

Schinner, Matthew, born at 
Millibach, Vaud, Switzerland, 
1470; became bishop of Sit- 
ten, 1509; cardinal, 1511; 
died in Rome, October 2, 
1522, 109, I10, 129, 131, 150 

Schlosser, see also Keyser, 305 

Schmalkald, see Schmalkalden 

Schmalkald League, 336 

Schmalkalden, 325, 336, 337, 


350 
Schmid, Conrad, 283 
Schmidt of Kiissnacht, 217 
Schmidt, Johan, see Faber 
Schnegg, Hans, 217 
Scholastic theology 
58, 83, 87 
School curriculum, 55 
Schuler, J. M., Zwingh’s Bild- 
ungsgeschichte, 2nd ed., Zur- 
ich, 1819, 68, 93, 122 
Schwenckfeld, Hans 
248, 264, 287 
Schwyz, canton or town, 120, 
164, 165, 272, 300-302, 305, 


rejected, 


Caspar, 


349 
Scoloker, Anthony, 212 
Scotland, King of, 358 
Scriptures supreme source of 
truth in theology, 481-483 
Secerius, printer, of Hagenau, 


349 

‘« Selection or liberty respecting 
foods ; on offence and scandal ; 
whether there is any authority 
for forbidding meat at certain 
times,’ I61 

Selnau, 225 

Seneca, 79, 135 

Senis, Philippus de, 76 


506 


Servetus,, Michael, 349 

re Shepherd, The, % 205, 226 

Sick visited by designated clergy, 
291 

Sickingen, Franz von, 215 

Sigwart, C., Ulrich Zwingh : 
der Character seiner T. heologie 
mit besonderer Rucksicht auf 
Picus von Mirandula, Stutt- 
gart, 1855, 85, 285 

Sihl, river, 310 

Silesia, 287 

Simler, J. J.. Sammlung alter 
und neuer Urkunden, zur 
Beleuchtung der Kirchenge- 
schichte, vornehmlich des 
Schwetzerlandes, Zurich, 1757- 
1767, 2 vols., 259, 339 

Sin, doctrine of, 377, 378, 383 

Sion, same as Sitten 

Sitten, or Sion, fifty miles south 
of Bern, 109, 150 

“* Sixty-seven Articles,” 

Socrates, 79 

Solothurn, or Soleure, the Swiss 
canton, 203 

Som, Conrad, 280 

Sophocles’s Lexicon, 258 

Speich, Johann, 73 

Spires, 299, 300, 324, 337 

Stachelin, Rudolf, Mzldreich 
Zwingh, Basel, 1895-1897, 2 
vols., 289, 311 

Staehelin, Rudolf, Brzefe aus der 
Reformationszert, Basel, 1887, 
referred to, 237, 249 

Stein, eleven miles east of Wild- 
haus, 61, 67, 294 

Stoker, Melchior, 96 

Stoll, Huldreich, 67, 311 

Strassburg, 108, I29, 142, 171, 
235, 287, 296, 299, 307-309, 
311-314, 319, 325, 329-332, 
337- 339, 342, 347, 349, 360, 


361 

Strauss, D. F., Ulrich von 
Hutten, Eng. trans., London, 
ESTA La LO 

Strauss, Jacob, 276-278 


Strickler, AR! ctensammlung sur 


369 


Index 


schweizerischen Reformation, 
Basel, 1878-1884, 5 vols., 194, 
196, 307, 311 

Stucki, Johannes, 68 

Stumph, Simon, 142 

Sturm, Jacob, 312, 324, 330 

Stuttgart, 99 

‘* Suggestion (A) of the advis- 
ability of reflecting upon the 
proposal made by Pope Adrian 
to the princes of Germany at 
Nuremberg,” 177 


Suidas, 82 

Sumptuary laws, 287 

Surgant, Johannes  Ulricus, 
Manuale curatorum predi- 


candi prebens medum, Basel, 
1503, 88 
Sussex, Earl of, 358 
Switzerland, 234, 299, 324, 329, 
340, 345, 348, 349, 359-362 
Switzerland, Northern, 296, 297, 
336 
Synod, 298 


a 


Tallicon, 344 

Tetrapolitan Creed, 338 

Theocritus, 135 

Theological seminary in Zurich, 
293; copied in Basel, 349 

Theology proper, see God, doc- 
trine of 

Thomann, Rudolph, 245 

Thucydides, 135 

Thur, 67 

Thurgau, canton, 206, 294 

Tithes, 156, 239; their payment 
by the peasants ordered by the 
Zurich City Council, 239 

Toggenburg Valley, 49, 121, = 
237, 268 

Tremp, Leonard, 64, 270, 281 

Trinckler, Ulmann, 284 

Tschudi, Huldreich, 73 

Tschudi, J. H., Chronicle of 
Glarus, 120 

Tschudi, Judoc, 73 

Tschudi, Peter, 326 


Index 


' Tschudi, Valentine, 63, 93, 110, 
120 
Tuebingen, 58, 59, 185, 273 


U 


Ubiquity of Christ’s body dis- 
cussed by Zwingli, 470 sqq. 

Ufnau, island, 217, 219 

Ulm, 280, 299, 305, 325, 328, 
337, 347 

Ulrich, Duke of Wiirtemberg, 
see Wiirtemberg 

University curriculum, 58 

Untersee, 99 

Unterwalden, 272, 300 

Unterwalden, Upper, 203 

Urdorf, 151 

Wri} 272,"300 

Ursinus College, Pennsylvania, 

69 

Usteri, Znitia Zwingh, 82, 151 

Utinger, I19 





V 


Vadianus (Joachim von Watt), 
the Reformer of St. Gall, 
Switzerland, born there De- 
cember 30, 1484; studied at 
Vienna, was professor of Lat- 
in and Greek in that uni- 
versity, I510-1518; became 
physician to the city of St. 
Gall, 1518; introduced the 
Reformation there, 1524; died 
there, April 6, 1551, 62, 63, 
71, gI—-94, 145, 177, 204, 205, 
220, 236, 242, 252, 272-274, 
277, 283, 323, 325, 340, 343 

Valerius, Maximus, 89 

Valla, 214 

Valtellina, 342 

Venice, Doge of, 324-326 

Vergenhans, see Heyerhansen, 
185 

Verulam, 181 

Vienna, 56, 57, 63, 92, 93, 247 

Vincent, John Martin, 68 








507 


Virgin and child, wonder-work- 
ing figure of, in Einsiedeln, 
103 

Vogelin, S., Das Alte Lirich, 
2nd ed., Ziirich, 1878, 2 vols., 
EL], Lo, pL2 5252 


W 


Waldshut, 249, 252 

Walenstadt, 54 

Walenstadt, Lake of, 54 

Wallis, 280, 348 

Wanner, Johann, 162 

Wattli, Melchior, 161 

Weimar, 139, 140 

Weis, Bernard, 236, 310 

Weissenburg, 299 

Wentz, Johann Heinrich, 92, 93 

Wesen, scene of Zwingli’s first 
schooling, 54, 58, 60, 63, 68, 
94, 96 

Wettingen, 296 

White, H., 305 

Widmer, Johann, 153, 154 

Wildenhaus, same as Wildhaus 

Wildhaus, 49, 54, 57, 61, 64, 
69, 361 

Will, freedom of, denied, 383 

Windsheim, 299 

Winkworth, Miss Susanna, 7he- 
ologia Germanica, London, 
1854, 139 

Winterthur, 93, 113, 226 

Wirz, Anton, 232 

Witikon, or Wytikon, 3 m. s, e. 
of Zurich, 245 

Wittenberg, 139, 240, 148, 171, 
278, 314 

Wittenger, 351 

Woelflin (Lupulus), Heinrich, 
56, 124 

Wolfgang, Prince of Anhalt, see 
Anhalt 

Worms, 145 

Writings, 70, 71 

Wiirtemberg, 176 

Wiirtemberg, Ulrich, Duke of, 
324, 326, 327 

Wyss, Urban, 188 


‘ 


508 


Wytikon, see Witikon 
Wyttenbach, Thomas, 58, 59, 
182 


x 


Xylotectus, see Zimmerman 


Z 


Zasius, 142 

Zellar, Stephen, 344 

Zeller-Weidmiiller, H., 353 

Zili, Francis, 63 

Zilin, Margareta, 73 

Zimmerman, 65, 166, 169, 215 

Zinck, Francis, 65, 96, 109, 115, 
116 

Zollicon, 245 

Zumicon, five miles south by east 
of Zurich, about three miles 
east of the lake, 246 

Zug, 272, 300, 351, 352, 357 

Zurich, 49, 58, 59, 64-66, 68, 
79, 82, 97-100, 109, III, 114, 
TES Liye rome 20s 2227) 
131, 134, 136, 147, 150-156, 
159, 165, 168, I71, 172, 174, 
175, 177, 180, 185-187, 190, 
IQI, 196, 202, 203, 206, 207, 
DN De Og PANG), IPA, Ga bole). 


231-233, 238, 239-249, 253, 
258, 259, 265-267, 270, 271, 
273, 277-280, 287, 290, 293; 


294, 296, 302, 303, 305-308, 
310, 313, 314, 319, 322, 323, 
326-330, 339, 341, 343, 345- 
347, 351, 352, 354, 356, 358- 
361 

Zurich, Great Minster, 117, 
160, 161, 195, 200, 202; Min- 
ster of Our Lady, 117, 161; 
St. Peters, Mir 7, eskOl.s 596 ; 
Latin School of the Great 
Minster, 211 

Zurich, Lake of, 69, 94, 96, 98, 
99, 247 

Zurich Little or Small Council, 
passim 

Zurich Monasteries (Augustin- 


Index 


ian, Dominican, Franciscan), 
146 
Zurich nunnery of Oetenbach, 
173, 195; Selnau, 195 
Zweibriicken, 307 
Zweibriicken, Ludwig, Duke of, 
312 
Zwingli and Luther contrasted, 


395-399 

Zwingli, Andrew (brother), 61, 
64-67, 132, 145 

Zwingli, Anna (sister), 61, 64 

Zwingli, Anna (daughter), 361 

Zwingli, Anna (great-grand- 
daughter), 136 

Zwingli, Bartholomew, or Bar- 
tholomaus (uncle), 54-56, 58, 
60, 63 

Zwingli, Bartholomew (brother), 
61 

Zwingli, Hans (brother), 61 

Zwingli, Heinialso called Hainy, 
or Henry (brother), 61 

Zwingli, Huldreich (father), 60 

Zwingli, Huldreich, or Ulrich, 
(son), 284, 360, 361 

Zwingli, Huldreich: ( Chapter J. 
Childhood and Youth, r484- 
1506.) Date and place of 
birth, 49; self-proof of this 
date, 49; family conditions, 
50; nearest relatives, 50; own 
remarks uponhis youth, 51; his 
observations of nature, 51-53; 
scenery about his birthplace, 
53; trend of the family, 53; 
his uncle his first teacher, 54, 
55; importance of fact of his 
leaning to the New Learning, 
54; his first schooling, 54, 55; 
goes to Buenzli’s school (St. 
Theodore’s Church school), 
Klein Basel, 55; the curricu- 
lum, 55 ; qualities as a scholar, 
56; goes to Lupulus’s school, 
Bern, 56 ; musical accomplish- 
ments, 56; tempted to be- 
come a Dominican monk, 56; 
enters Vienna University, 56; 
enters Basel University, 57; 


Index 509 


Zwingli, Huldreich (Continued) 
becomes teacher in St. Mar- 
tin’s Church school, Basel, 57 ; 
first acquaintance with theo- 
logy, takes B.A. and M.A. 
degrees, and called to Glarus, 
58; influenced by Thomas 
Wyttenbach, 58, 59; univer- 
sity friends, 60; Excursus on 
Zwingh’s parents, uncles, 
brothers, and sisters, 60-67; 
letters of Zwingli to Vadian, 
61, 62; to Myconius, 64, 
65; of James and Andrew 
Zwingli to him, 62, 65, 66. 
(Chapter JJ, At Glarus, 
1506-1516.) Location of Gla- 
rus, 68 ; neighbouring villages, 
68 ; troubles with Goldli, 68 ; 
ordination, 68; first sermon 
and first mass, 69; fate of 
churches early associated with 
Zwingli, 69; sole relic of him 
in Glarus, 69; earliest of his 
compositions in rhyme and in 
prose, 70, 71; experiences as 
chaplain of the Glarean con- 
tingent in the papal army in 
Italy, 71; lasting theological 
influence of these journeys, 
72; made papal agent and 
a papal pensioner as reward 
of zeal in papal interests, 72; 
also secures favourable answer 
to petition for privileges, 72; 
the petition, 73-76; experi- 
ences in Italy in 1515, 76; his 
character while in Glarus, his 
attainments, and library, 77; 
visited Erasmus at Basel, 78; 
letters to and from Erasmus, 
78-81 ; begins study of Greek, 
81, 82; emancipation from 
the traditional theology, 83, 
84; influence of Pico della 
Mirandola, 84, 85; Pico’s 
heretical theses, 84, 85; in- 
debtedness to Erasmus, 86, 
87; discovery at Mollis re- 
specting administration of the 


Lord’s Supper, 87, 88; dis- 
covery of variations in the 
service books,: 88; life at 
Glarus as student, teacher, 
preacher, 89 ; preparations for 
preaching, 88, 89; reputation 
as a preacher, 89; opposition 
to mercenary traffic, g0; prom- 
inence of Glarus in such busi- 
ness, 90; forced by his plain 
speaking to leave Glarus, 91 ; 
Lxcursus on the Zwingh Cor- 
respondence in General, and on 
that of the Glarus Period in 
Particular, 91-93; obscure 
episode connected with his 
benefice «in Basel, 92), -93'; 
offered a house and farm in 
Italy, 93. (Chapter L1I. At 
LEinstedeln, 1516-1518.) Re- 
moves to Einsiedeln, reason, 
94; circumstances of the call, 
94, 95; text of the contract, 
95, 96; retains pastorate at 
Glarus, 96; desire of con- 
gregation to have him remain, 
96, 97; dismay at his leaving, 
97; his affection for his Glar- 
ean flock, 98; location and 
fame of Einsiedeln, 98 ; story 
of Meinrad, its founder, gg, 
100; the Angelic Dedication 
of the chapel in his memory, 
100, I0L ; criticism of the le- 
gend, ror; place of pilgrimage, 
IOI; condition of the monas- 
tery and of its governing body 
at the Reformation, 102; the 
chapel of Meinrad with its 
miraculous image, 102, 103; 
the celebration of the Angelic 
Dedication, 104; life and 
studies and arrival at evan- 
gelical truth at Einsiedeln, 
105, 106; preaches against 
Samson, the indulgence seller, 
106 ; definition of indulgences, 
106 ; writes derisively of Sam- 
son, 107 ; character of preach- 
ing at Einsiedeln, 108 ; friends 


510 


Zwingli, Huldreich ( Continued ) 
in authority, 109; conversa- 
tions with prominent visitors 
upon the evils of the Church, 
109; no idea of separating 
from her, 110 ; receives instruc- 
tion from Bombasius in Greek, 
110; appointed papal acolyte 
chaplain, 111; text of the ap- 
pointment, III, 112; consid- 
ered Einsiedeln residence only 
temporary, 113; called to 
Winterthur, 113; but forced 
to decline by his Glarus su- 
periors, 113; visited Baden, 
114; Lxcursus on the Papal 
Pension, 114-116; pension 
renounced, 115; made up 
by cathedral canonry, 116. 
(Chapter IV. Opening Year 
in Zurich, 1519.) Myconius 
asks Zwingli if he would fill 
the vacancy in the Zurich 
Great Minster of the people’s 
priestship, 117; parishes in 
Zurich, 117 ; Zwingli consents 
to be a candidate,118 ; jealous 
of a rival, 118; outlines his 
preaching plans, 118; objec- 
tions to him, 119; denial of 
serious charge accepted and 
election follows, IIg ; resigns 
at Glarus and names succes- 
sor there, and at Einsiedeln, 
120; his manuscript ‘‘ Paul- 
inus,” 12T; inducted into office 
at Zurich, and announced 
preaching plans, 122; per- 
sonal appearance and orator- 
ical promise, 122; Biblical 
books expounded in early 
years, 123; pulpit themes, 
123, 124; preaches against 
Samson, 124; the episode, 
124-127; Zwingli’s interest 
in choice of an emperor, 127; 
opinion of Charles V., 127; 
witnesses papal trickiness, 128; 
has the printing of opponent's 
sermons stopped, 129; Luther 








Index 


first comes in for mention, 
129; Zwingli jealous of 
Luther, 130; in personal dan- 
ger, 130; intimacy with Car- 
dinal Schinner, 131; visits 
Pfaefers, 131; hastily returns 
to do his duty toward plague- 
stricken parishioners, 131 ; 
takes the plague, 131; slowly 
recovers, 132; his verses com- 
memorating the experience, 
132-134; mode of life, 134; 
classical reading, 135; re- 
sumes study of Hebrew, 135 ; 
gives instruction in and out of 
his house, 135; Zxcursus Z. 
On Zwingh’s Manuscript 
Paulinus, 135,136; 2. On 
Zwingh’s Preaching against 
the Pensioners and Pensions 
(from Bullinger), 136-139 ; 
IIT, On the Allusions to 
Luther in the Zwingl Corre- 
spondence of 1519, 139-143. 
(Chapter V. Preparing for 
the Reformation, 1520-1521.) 
Revelations of his  corre- 
spondence of the period, 144 ; 
date of his new life in Christ, 


-14§; reference to Hus, ‘‘ On 


the Church,” and to Luther, 
145; Luther’s friendly cap- 
tivity surmised, 145 ; Zwingli’s 
visits to Basel and meeting 
Erasmus, 145 ; growing oppos- 
ition to his preaching, 146; 
numerous supporters, 146; 
City Council order for pure 
preaching of the Word, 147; 
hopes and fears of the Gospel, 
147; efforts to prevent Lu- 
ther’s excommunication, 148 ; 
anticipation of being involved 
in the same fate, 149; again 
takes up Hebrew, 149; rela- 
tions of Pope and the Swiss, 
150; Zwingli’s and Zurich’s 
stand against the mercenary 
traffic, 150 ; study of Zwingli’s 
‘“Marginalia,” 151 ; becomes 


Index S11 


Zwingli, Huldreich (Continued) 
canon of the Great Minster, 
151; text of his appointment, 
151-154; publications, 152, 
I53; share in another, 154; 
** Advice of one who desires 
with his whole heart that due 
consideration be paid both to 
the dignity of the pope and to 
the peaceful development of 
the Christian religion,” with 
appendix, uA defences of 
Martin Luther by Christ our 
Lord, addressed to the city of 
Rome,” 155 ; its character and 
authorship, 155; first step in 
reform: declares tithes de- 
void of divine authority, 156; 
second step: revision of the 
breviary, 157; urges investi- 
gation of applicants for out- 
door relief, 157. (Chapter 
VI. The Reformation Begins, 
1522.) Zwingli’s preparation 
to be a reformer, 158-160; 
some of his congregation put 
in practice his teaching of the 
allowability of eating flesh in 
Lent, and punished in conse- 
quence by the civil authorities, 
160 ; Zwingli assumes full re- 
sponsibility, 161; publishes 
his sermon  ‘‘ Concerning 
Choice and Liberty Respect- 
ing Food,” 161 ; compromise 
measure of the Council con- 
cerning fasting, calling for 
obedience till the fasts were 
abolished, and that the peo- 
ple’s priests dissuade the peo- 
ple from disobedience, I61 ; 
revolt in Zurich reported to 
Bishop of Constance, who 
sends a commission to exam- 
ine into the matter, 161, 162; 
it meets the clergy and the 
Councils, 162; Zwingli’s ef- 
forts to get a hearing before 
the Great Council successful, 
163 ; makes reply, 163, 164; 





Council votes to reaffirm 
former injunction on people’s 
priests to dissuade the people 
from violating the fasting or- 
dinance but urges definitive 
order on the subject from the 
Bishop of Constance, 164 ; let- 
ters from the Bishop urging 
the Zurich clerics and laity to 
suppress heresy, 164 ; Zwingli 
avails himself of defeat of 
Swiss troops to prepare ‘‘ An 
earnest exhortation addressed 
to the Confederates not to suf- 
fer themselves to come into 
dishonour through the wiles 
of their foes,” 164; descrip- 
tion of the pamphlet, 165 ; its 
ultimate unfavourable result, 
165; Diet at Baden prohibits 
preaching of Reformation doc- 
trine, 165 ; petitions by Zwin- 
gli and others to the Bishop 
of Constance and to the gov- 
ernment of the Confederacy 
for permission to preach the 
Gospel, but especially to 
marry, 165, 166; confession 
of unchastity, 167; efforts to 
obtain signatures to the peti- 
tion, 168, 169; debate with 
Francis Lambert on the In- 
tercession of the Saints, 170; 
an easy victory, 170; Zwingli’s 
account, 170; Lambert’s ca- 
reer, 170, 171 ; Zwingli’s strife 
with the monks and allusion 
to the petition, 171; secular 
clergy permitted to preach in 
the nunneries, 172; none al- 
lowed to preach anything not 
in the Bible, 172; Zwingli’s 
Archeteles, 172; Erasmus’s 
characteristic criticism of it, 
172, 173; Zwingli’s two ser- 
mons to the nuns: ‘‘On the 
Perspicuity and Certainty, or 
Infallibility of the Word of 
God,” and ‘‘The Perpetual 
Virginity of Mary the Mother 


512 Index 


Zwingli, Huldreich (Continued) neither Faber nor Eck as 


of Jesus Christ our Saviour,” 
173; spreading revolt against 
the’ Roman )Church, 9174; 
Zwingli preaches at the An- 
gelic Dedication in Einsie- 
deln, 174; Adrian VI.’s letter 
to Zurich, Zwingli resigns 
his people’s priestship but 
continues to preach, 175; 
Zurich Senate’s independent 
action on religious affairs, 175; 
convents taken from exclu- 
sive Dominican control, 176 ; 
Zwingli’s literary methods, 
176; his pamphlet against 
Pope Adrian’s proposals to 
the princes of Germany at 
Nuremberg, entitled: ‘‘A 
suggestion,” etc., 177; ru- 
moured assault on Zwingli, 
177; result of his sermon 
against clerical pensions, 177 ; 
sympathy in Switzerland for 
Luther’s _ positions, eye 
Zwingli’s aid, 178; growth 
of the reform element in 
Zurich, 178. (Chapter VIZ, 
The Reformation Defended, 
1523.) C&colampadius praises 
Zwingli, and they become in- 
timate correspondents, 179; 
correlative position to Lu- 
ther and Melanchthon, 179 ; 
Zwingli announces to CEco- 
lampadius the coming dispu- 
tation at Zurich, and Faber’s 
expected presence, 179; invi- 
tation by the Council to the 
same, 180; letter of Adrian 
VI. to Zwingli, 181; Cico- 
lampadius displeased at idea 
of a public disputation, feared 
it might end as a dispute, 182; 
Zwingli prepares sixty-seven 
Theses for debate, 183; 
twenty-two of them _ trans- 
lated, 183-185; Gebweiler’s 
uncomplimentary remarks 
upon the disputation, 185 ; 





fluent in German as in Latin, 
185; opening of the disputa- 
tion, 185; leaders on the Old 
Church side present, 185; 
persons from Zurich present, 
185, 186; opening speech of 
the Burgomaster, 186, 187; 
the debate, principally be- 
tween Zwingli and Faber, 
187-189 ; the Bishop of Con- 
stance’s ‘‘imprisonment of a 
heretic” discussed, 189 ; Faber 
boasted of having converted 
the ‘‘heretic” out of Scripture, 
but refuses to give the texts 
used, 189; Council’s formal 
approval of Zwingli’s doc- 
trine, I90, I91; Zwingli’s 
thanksgiving, 192 ; further de- 
bate between him and Faber, 
Ig2; remarks of auditors upon 
the disputation, 192; its 
printed record, 192; Faber’s 
account, and young Zurich- 
ers’ travesty, 192, 193; Gla- 
reanus congratulates Zwin- 
gli, 193; end of Gebweiler 
episode, 193, 194; Faber 
complains of the travesty on 
his account, 194; boasts of 
his victory, 194; result com- 
ing to Zwingli from the dispu- 
tation, 194 ; Leo Jud becomes 
preacher in the Oetenbach 
nunnery, 194; many of the 
nuns leave, some marry, 195 ; 
Zwingli urges the ‘‘ heretic” 
imprisoned by the Bishop of 
Constance to stand fast, 195 ; 
hanged in effigy at Luzern, 
195 ; no change in food pro- 
hibition ordered by the Coun- 
cil, 195; the first clerical 
public marriage, 195; other 
such marriages, 195, 196; the 
Council refused to accept the 
Bishop of Constance’s letter 
upon the religious troubles, 
196; Zwingli’s ‘‘ Exposition 


Index 513 


Zwingli, Huldreich ( Continued ) 
and Proof of the Conclusions 
on -Antieles,” 196, 3¥Q7; his 
tractate against the Anabap- 
tists entitled ‘‘ Divine and 
Human Righteousness,” 198. 
(Chapter VIII, The ke- 
Jormation Established, 1523- 
1525.) Up to 1523 no real 
change in the religious life of 
the people, I99; first break 
with the religious past, the 
use of German in baptism, 
200; various minor reforms 
ordered by the Council, 200 ; 
finding use of vernacular in 
baptism popular Zwingli re- 
forms all the liturgy, 201 ; yet 
for a time retained many of 
the Old Church ceremonies, 
201; iconoclasts appear, and 
are punished, 202; Zwingli 
visits them in prison in recog- 
nition of their righteous but 
too hasty zeal, 202 ; the Coun- 
cil appoints a committee to 
study the question and advise 
them, 202 ; issues call fora dis- 
putation on church images and 
the mass, 203 ; answers of the 
bishops. and cantons invited, 
203; the disputation held, 
203, 204; first proposition 
relative to church images dis- 
cussed, result : order for their 
removal, 204 ; second proposi- 
tion relative to the mass, no 
decision, 204, 205; Zwingli 
refrains from exact definition 
of his position, 204, 205; low 
opinion of monks, 205 ; sermon 
on ‘‘ The Shepherd,” after- 
wards published, 205 ; report 
on the plan of City Council 
to spread the reformed ideas, 
205, 206; befriends one of 
the banished iconoclasts, 207 ; 
“A short Christian introduc- 
duction,” 207; deliverance 
against use of images, espe- 
33 











cially in churches, 208; and 
upon the mass, 208 ; effect of 
the action by the Council,208, 
209; divisions in the chapter 
of the Great Minister led to 
call upon Zwingli for an opin- 
ion, 209; the Lord’s Supper 
first administered in both 
kinds, 209 ; but the mass still 
administered, 209; a third 
disputation on the subjects cf 
the second, 209; a fourth the 
next year, 210. (Chapter LX. 
Gerold Meyer von Knonau, 
fTutten, and Erasmus, 1527.) 
Gerold his pupil, 211 ; sends 
him to Basel, 211; letter 
from, 211;° gives as bath- 
present a collection of ‘ pre- 
cepts,” 212 ; relations between 
Zwingli and Erasmus, 213; 
Hutten’s character and career, 
214; relations between Eras- 
mus and Ulrich von Hutten, 
214; how rupture between 
Hutten and Erasmus _ oc- 
curred, 214 ; Erasmus’s attack 
on Hutten and all who aided 
Hutten in any way, 214; Hut- 
ten’s wanderings after leaving 
Basel, 215 ; fled to Zurich and 
befriended by Zwingli, 216; 
sent him first to Pfaefers, 216; 
then to Ufnau, 257; Erasmus 
writes against Hutten to 
Zurich City Council, 217 ; and 
to Zwingli, 217 ; letter to lat- 
ter partly quoted, 218, 219; 
Hutten’s second attack on 
Erasmus, 219; death, 219; 
pecuniary obligations and 
property, 21g; Erasmus dedi- 
cates his reply to Hutten’s 
first attack to Zwingli, 220; 
but it was followed by a com- 
plete rupture both with him 
and Glareanus, which Zwingli 
deplored, 220,221. ( Chapter X. 
The Reformation im Zurich 
Completed, 1524.) Wow the 


514 


Zwingli, Huldreich (Continued ) 
religious changes were brought 
about, 222; what made Zwin- 
glia reformer, 223; defence 
of the Old Church by Canon 
Hofmann before the Council, 
223; the latter declares it un- 
successful on the basis of 
Scripture, and orders the 
canons to conform or leave 
the city, 224 ; gradual changes, 
public acquiescence, 224; the 
abolition of the convents and 
monasteries in the city, 225; 
to what uses the buildings 
were put, 225; how the rev- 
enues were utilised, 225; 
Zwingli’s literary work of the 
year 1524, 225-228; ‘‘ The 
Shepherd,” 226; remarks on 
the address of the bishops of 
Constance, Basel, and Lau- 
sanne, 226; earnest plea to 
the Swiss Diet not to continue 
the mercenary traffic, 226; 
refutes slander, 226; congrat- 
ulates the Toggenburgers 
upon their reception of the 
Reformation, 226; Andio- 
lon, to Jerome Emser’s de- 
fence of the canon of the mass 
against Zwingli, 227; epistle 
on the Lord’s Supper, 227; 
deliverance on questions from 
Strassburg friends, 227, 228; 
refutation of the charge that 
the Reformation necessarily 
caused disorder, 228; aboli- 
tion of the mass, and substi- 
tution of a scriptural service, 
229, 230 ; this eucharistic ser- 
vice repeated, 230 ; impression 
made by it, 230; list of 
Zwingli’s writings on the 
eucharist, 230. (Chapter XJ. 
Public Marriage andLetters of 
1524.) Zwingli’s public mar- 
riage, 231 ; his bride, 231; her 
ancestry, 231; her first hus- 
band, 232; his marriage leads to 








Index 


disinheritance, his subsequent 
career, 232; their children, 
232; Gerold Meyer von Kno- 
nau adopted by his gtand- 
father, 232; how the family 
were distributed at Zwingli’s 
coming to Zurich, 232 ; enters 
into a clerical marriage with 
Anna Reinhard, widow of 
Hans Meyer von Knonau, 233; 
relations the talk of the town, 
233; way Zwingli’s friends 
took the rumour, 234 ; consid- 
ered Anna Reinhard his wife, 
234; frequency of clerical 
marriages publicly solemn- 
ised, 234 ; why Zwingli’s pub- 
lic marriage may have been 
delayed, 235; when it oc- 
curred, and the immediate 
pecuniary troubles about the 
Knonau children, which were 
amicably settled, 235; what 
Butzer said on learning the 
news of the marriage, 235 sg.; 
character of the Zwingli corre- 
spondence of 1524 and analysis 
of it, 236 sg,; character of the 
latter part of the correspon- 
dence in general, 237. (Chap-= 
ter XII. The Inner Course 
of the Zurich Reformation, 
1525-1530.) The Baptist and 
peasant agitation came to 
Switzerland from Germany, 
238 ; peasants complain to the 
Zurich City Council, 239; 
Zwingli’s advice, 239 ; public 
debate ordered on tithes, 239; 
dissent from Zwingli’s opin- 
ion respecting the biblical 
authority of tithes, 239; rise 
of the Baptist party in Zurich 
among the radicals, 240; their 
earliest manifestation, 240 ; 
Zwingli recognised that they 
carried out his teachings but 
condemned their precipitancy, 
240; their earliest meetings 
attended by him 240; chara 


Index cae og 


Zwingli, Huldreich ( Continued ) 
acter of Manz and Grebel, who 
joined them, 241 ; later place 
of meeting, number, 241 ; the 
second disputation, upon 
images and the mass, 241; 
the radicals first find voice 
then, 241; Zwingli opposes 
them, 242 ; secret conferences 
with them, 242; Miinzer and 
Carlstadt influence them in 
the direction of rejecting in- 
fant baptism as unscriptural, 
242; what Zwingli taught 
upon it, 243; public disputa- 
tion with the Baptists and the 
Council’s order upon infant 
baptism, 243; text of the de- 
cision, 244; private meetings 
of the Baptists forbidden, and 
foreigners among them ban- 
ished, 244 ; they meet in Zol- 
licon, 245 ; adult baptism, by 
pouring, instituted, 245; ex- 
planation of term Anabaptist, 
245; account of earliest adult 
baptism, 245 sg., frequent 
debates with the Baptists, 246; 
how their punishment justi- 
fied, 246; appearance of Bal- 
thasar Hubmaier, the theo- 
logian of the Baptists, 246; 
treatment and fate of the 
Baptist leaders, 247 ; extracts 
from Zwingli’s correspondence 
about the Baptists, 248 sgq., 
list of his books against them, 
248 ; his story of the persecu- 
tion of Hubmaier, 249 s9.,; 
his reference to Appenzell as 
a hotbed of Baptists and his 
defence of it, 250 sg., his ac- 
count of persecution of Bap- 
tist leaders, 252; his story of 
Hlubmaier’s treatment, 252- 
256; analysis of Zwingli’s 
first book on Baptism, 256- 
258 ; his Latin treatise against 
the Baptists, 258 ; explanation 
of term Catabaptist, 258; no 





discussion anywhere of the 
mode of baptism, 259; dispu- 
tation on the treatment of the 
Baptists in 1527, 259; text of 
edict against Baptists, 260 ; 
analysis of his Latin treatise, 
261-264; story of George 
Blaurock’s treatment, 263; 
Zwingli’s reply to  ques- 
tions of Schwenckfeld, 264; 
suppression of the Baptists, 
265. (Chapter XII, The 
final Stage of the Zwinglian 
Reformation, 1524-1529.) 
Characteristics of these years, 
266 ; his appeal to the Grisons 
on behalf of the Reformation, 
267; poor law regulation in 
Zurich, 267; ordinance on 
marriage and divorce, 268 ; 
Zwinglis book on _ the 
preacher, against Baptist 
claim to be all prophets, 268 ; 
his treatise against Erasmus 
on the eucharist, 269; his 
‘‘Commentary on the True and 
False Religion,” 269; Zwingli 
chosen rector of the Caroli- 
num, the school of the Great 
Minster, and moved to his 
final residence, 269; edits 
Pindar, 270; disputation at 
Baden between Roman Catho- 
lics and Zwinglians, 270-275 ; 
steps which led to it, corre- 
spondence between Zwingli 
and Eck, 271 ; efforts to have 
place other than Baden chosen, 
271 sg.,; why Zwingli could 
not go to Baden, 272 sg., Ba- 
den finally adopted and 
Zwingli absent, 274; his re- 
presentatives and champions, 
274; kept informed and took 
active part by correspondence, 
274; acts published, 275; 
Zwingli replies to Pirkheimer, 
275; Zwingli tells how Eck 
won reputation for Hebrew 
learning at Baden, 276; his 


516 


Zwingli, Huldreich ( Continued) 
references to Hubmaier and 
Luther, his reference to per- 
sonal. acquaintance with the 
stone, 276; references to 
Jacob Grebel and Jacob 
Strauss, 276 sg.,; Zwingli’s 
‘‘ Friendly Exegesis” against 
Luther greatly riles Luther, 
277 sg.; strained relations be- 
tween them, 279; Zwingli 
affirms the validity of Roman 
Catholic baptism, 279; dispu- 
tation at Bern, attended by 
Zwingli, 280; analysis of the 
Acts, 281-283; the Ten The- 
ses of the disputation, pre- 
pared by Kolb and Haller, 
helped by Zwingli, 282, 283 ; 
the sessions of the disputation, 
283; favourable vote of the 
City Council, 284; Zwingli’s 
son Huldreich born, 284; 
letter to his wife on this occa- 
sion, 284, 285 ; his sermons, 
285 ; priest converted by the 
first, 285; return to Zurich, 
286; denial of slanders, 286; 
the first Zurich synod with 
Zwingli as censor, 286; the 
Munerarian law, 2. ¢., against 
extravagance, 286, 237 * 
Zwingli reprints Schwenck- 
feld’s treatise on the Lord’s 
Supper, calling attention to 
the similarity of their 
theories, 287 ; in consequence 
Schwenckfeld banished from 
Silesia, 287; Zwingli pub- 
lishes. his reply to Luther on 
the Lord’s Supper, and his 
correspondence relative to it, 
287-289 ; announces his com- 
mentary on Isaiah in the 
press, 289; radical changes 
in the church services in Zu- 
rich,disuse of vocal and instru- 
mental music, simple order 
of worship, 290; ministerial 
dress,sacraments, burials, time 





Index 


of service, 291; what saints’ 
days were retained, 292; abo- 
lition of costly paraphernalia, 
292; Council’s order on sup- 
port of the clergy, 293 ;.the 
instruction in the _ theologi- 
cal seminary established by 
Zwingli, 293; the synods at 
Frauenfeld, 294 ; rough treat- 
ment of monks and nuns, 
295, 296; how justified, 296; 
extent of Zwingli’s influence 
in 1529, 296 ; mode of church 
government, and how reli- 
gious matters were handled, 
207, 208. (Chapter XIV. 
The First Cappel War and 
the Colloguy of Marburg, 
1529.) Who were the first 
‘* Protestants,” 299; anxiety 
to suppress Zwingli’s theory 
of the eucharist, 299, 300; 
the Landgrave of Hesse and 
Melanchthon protest, 300; 
Zwingli thanks the Land- 
grave, 300; trouble brewing 
between the Forest Cantons 
and the Reformed Cantons 
owing to the former’s league 
between themselves and with 
Austria, 300; Zwingli  fay- 
oured armed opposition tu the 
Foresters’ intention to root out 
the Reformation from their 
borders, 301 ; war breaks out, 
but a peace is at once pro- 
posed, . 301-303; Zwingli’s 
ideas upon the conditions of a 
lasting peace, 303; general 
opposition to pensioners, 303 ; 
absence of desire to fight, and 
famine among the Foresters 
makes peace easier to secure, 
303, 304; discipline in the 
Zurich camp, 304; Zwingli’s 
hymn, 304; treaty signed, 
304, 305; its contents, 305 ; 
Zwingli’s satisfaction, 306; 
his chief concern for the free 
preaching of the Reformation 


Index 619 


Zwingli, Huldreich ( Continued) 
in the Forest Cantons, 306 ; as 
this demand was not accepted 
by the Foresters and the whole 
treaty considered humiliating 
the peace secured by the treaty 
could not be lasting, 306; ne- 
gotiations for a colloquy at 
Marburg begun by the Land- 
grave, 307; Luther-and Me- 
lanchthon kad accepted, 307 ; 
plan for Zwingli’s journey, 
307; (Ecolampadius to come, 
308 ; Zwingli prefers Strass- 
burg, 308 ; apprehension as to 
safety and efforts to change 
place, 308; Zwingli’s friends 
cheer him up, 309; journey 
decided on, 309 ; Zwingli goes 
without permission of the City 
Council and does not tell his 
wife where, 310; wrote to 
Council after he left, advice 
as to delegate from Zurich, 
310; subsequent letters, 311- 
313; journey tracked from 
point to point, 311-313 ; size 
of party which finally arrived 
at Marburg, 313; who were 
disputants, 314; private pre- 
liminary meetings, 314; the 


public debate between Luther | 


and Zwingli, 315; its chief 
topic, 316; Luther refused to 
take the Swiss for brethren, 
316; Melanchthon’s and Lu- 
ther’s statements on this point, 
316, 317; the incident of Lu- 
ther’s refusal to take Zwin- 
gli’s hand as told by Luther, 
317; comments on the result 
of the colloquy by C&colam- 
padius and Brenz, 317, 318; 
Jonas’s characterisations of 
the Zwinglian disputants, 318; 
what the colloquy really ef- 
fected, 318; outbreak of the 
pestilence drove the reformers 
away, 319; Zwingli’s safe re- 
turn to Zurich, 319; his ac- 





count of the colloquy, 319- 
322; thanks to the Landgrave, 
322. (Chapter XV. Zwin- 
gl’s Political Activity in His 
Closing Years, 1529-1531.) 
Zwingli’s anxiety to extend 
the alliance with Zurich 
against all opponents of the 
Reformation, 323; he finds 
allies in the Landgrave and 
the Duke of Wiirtemberg, 
324; has hopes of bringing in 
the Protestant princes and 
cities of North Germany, also 
Venice and France, 324; 
writes political preface to his 
commentary on Isaiah, 325; 
his political activity preju- 
dices Luther, 325; the Luth- 
eran princes reject the alli- 
ance, 325; so do Ulm and 
Venice, 325, 326; Collin’s 
diplomatic journey to the lat- 
ter, 326; negotiations with 
France, 327 ; alliance with the 
Landgrave rejected by Bern, 
328, 329; Strassburg comes 
in, 329; Diet of Augsburg 
opens, 329; Zwingh desires 
to be present but could not be 
sufficiently protected and so 
did not go, 329, 330; his 
friends there keep him_in- 
formed, 330; apply con- 
temptuous epithets to the 
Lutherans, 330; hatred of 
Zwingli rendered it unsafe to 
be known as his friend at 
Augsburg, 331; Zwingli pre- 
sents his Confession of Faith, 
332; Zwingli on the way to 
oppose the stratagems of the 
Roman Catholics taking ad- 
vantage of the divided state 
of the Protestants, 333 ; efforts 
of Capito and Butzer to get up 
a compromise on the eucha- 
rist formula, 334; Zwingli 
sends the Landgrave his ser- 
mon on Providence, 334; a 


518 


Zwingli, Huldreich ( Continued) 
diet of the evangelical cities 
at Basel to agree upon a eu- 
charist formula proposed by 
Butzer, but opposed by Zwingli 
and rejected, 335. (Chapter 
NUD, eae Last, -Veart of 
Zwingh’s Life, 1532.) Zwin- 
li’s position toward the 
Schmalkald League, 336-339 ; 
who composed it, 336, 337; 
Zwingli refused to accept the 
Tetrapolitan statement on the 
eucharist, 338-; so union was 
not effected, 339; Zwingli 
publishes his commentary on 
Jeremiah, 339; replies to the 
letter from the Brethren of the 
Common Life, 339; remarks 
on the Apocrypha, 340; con- 
tinued interest in the proposed 
alliance, 340 ; war again brew- 
ing with the Forest Cantons 
because although they had 
paid their indemnity they had 
not given free course to the 
Reformation preaching, and 
bitterly complained of the 
treatment they had received, 
especially from Zurich, 340 sg. 5 
the so-called Musso War, and 
how the Protestant Cantons 
were involved in it, 341-344 ; 
Zwingli advocated a new con- 
federacy leaving out the 
Forest Cantons, or their over- 
whelming defeat, 345 ; renews 
negotiations with France, 345; 
the Protestant Cantons agree 
to an embargo of wheat, salt, 
etc., on the Forest Cantons, 
345 ; Zwingli opposes it, 346 ; 
request for permission to lay 
down his office refused by the 
City Council, 346; anxiety of 
the French for peace among 
the Swiss, 346, 347; efforts of 
the delegates of the cantons 
at Bremgarten to the same 
end, 347 sg., Zwingli present 





Index 


secretly, 348 ; foresees trouble, 
348; refutes calumny, 348; 
embargo begins to drive the 
Forest Cantons to extremities, 
349; Zwingli learns of Serve- 
tus’s book on the Trinity, 349 ; 
also of a theological seminary 
at Basel like that in Zurich, _ 
349; consulted as to the di- 
vorce of Henry VIII., which 
he opposed, 350 ; hears cheer- 
ingly from Farel, 350; sup- 
posed portents, earth shedding 
blood, uncommon physical 
phenomena, woman bears a 
monstrosity, a comet appears 
at Zurich, all these believed to 
foretell disastrous war, 350, 
351; Zurich Council in view 
of the inevitable war adopted 
a plan of campaign, 352; 
Zwingli presages disaster in his 
sermons, 352; war breaks out, 
353; vanguard leaves Zurich, 
353 ; main body with Zwingli 
the next day, 353; his armour 
for defence not offence, 353; 
horse shied when he mounted, 
which was a bad sign, 354; 
had no expectation of return- 
ing, 354; confusion among 
the advancing main forces, 
354; the vanguard already at- 
tacked when it came up, 354; 
the Foresters well led, 354; 
main body compelled at once, 
as Zwingli urged, to come to 
the aid of their friends, 355 ; 
opposing battle cries, 355; 
Zwingli exhorts his friends, 
356; but fight quickly goes 
against them, 356; Zwingli 
wounded while in the rear 
taking no part in the fight, 
356; is urged to ask for a 
priest or to pray to the Mother 
of God and the Saints, 356; 
his refusal marks him as a 
“heretic,” 356; and (as such 
he was run through with a 


Index 


Zwingli, Huldreich ( Continued) 
sword and killed, 357; at first 
unrecognised, when  recog- 
nised his body was treated 
with contumely as that of the 
man who had fomented all 
the trouble, 357 ; exception to 
the words of cursing uttered 
over him, 358; the body quar- 
tered by the hangman the 
next morning and burnt as 
that of a heretic, 358; the 
battle of Cappel a Flodden 
Field, 358; roll of the emi- 
nent dead, 358 ; small loss and 
great gain of the Foresters, 
359; rest on the field and de- 
feat the allies,359 ; the Second 
Peace of Cappel, 359; great 
contrast to the First, 359; 
Zwingli’s widow and children 
taken into the house of Bul- 
linger, Zwingli’s successor, 
360; their after history, 360 
sg.; abuse of Zwingli dead by 
Lutherans and Roman Catho- 
lics, 361; his loss of reputa- 
tion among the Reformers, 
because of the rise of Calvin, 
362. ( Supplementary chapter. ) 
Zwingli’s theology, philoso- 
phy, and ethics, 365 ; theology 
in general like that of other 





519 


Reformers, 366; the philoso- 
phy underlying it, 367; its 
roots Hebrew, 367, 368; is 
Augustinian, 368, 369; the 
doctrine of God fundamental, 
370; best source of informa- 
tion concerning, is the ‘* Com- 
mentary on True and False 
Religion,” 370; this work ana- 
lysed, 370, sgg.; (see index 
under ‘‘ Commentary ”) ; the- 
ology misjudged by Luther, 
389 ; his doctrine of the sacra- 
ments, 389-395 ; contrast as a 
theologian to Luther, 395- 
399. (See also separate head- 
ings, Baptism, Bible, God, 
Lord’s Supper, Man, Sacra- 
ments, etc., in this index.) 
Zwingli characterises his own 
life, 482, 483 

Zwingli, James (brother), 56, 
60-64, 67, 71, 93 


Zwingli, Klaus, or Nicholas 
(brother), 61 
Zwingli, Margaret Meili 


(mother), 60 
Zwingli, Regula (daughter), 360 
Zwingli, Wilhelm, or William 
(son), 284, 360 
Zwingli, Wolfgang (brother), 61 
Zymmermann, 169 
Zymmermann, Wolfgang, 73 


THEOLOGY LIBRARY 
CLAREMONT, CALIF. 


2260S 





| oe eat 









See 


‘ i ¥ er 











Heroes of the Nations. 


EDITED BY 


EVELYN ABBOTT, M.A., 


FELLOW OF BALLIOL COLLEGE, OXFORD, 


A SERIES of biographical studies of the lives and work 
of a number of representative historical characters about 
whom have gathered the great traditions of the Nations 
to which they belonged, and who have been accepted, in 
many instances, as types of the several National ideals. 
With the life of each typical character will be presented 
a picture of the National conditions surrounding him 
during his career. 

The narratives are the work of writers who are recog- 
nized authorities on their several subjects, and, while 
thoroughly trustworthy as history, will present picturesque 
and dramatic “stories” of the Men and of the events con- 
nected with them. 

To the Life of each “ Hero” will be given one duo- 
decimo volume, handsomely printed in large type, pro- 
vided with maps and adequately illustrated according to 
the special requirements of the several subjects. The 
volumes will be sold separately as follows : 


Cloth extra. .. : : ‘ F ; 5S. 
Roxburgh, uncut edges, gilt top. . : : 6s. 


HEROES OF THE NATIONS. 


A series of biographical studies of the lives and work of 
certain representative historical characters, about whom have 
gathered the great traditions of the Nations to which they 
belonged, and who have been accepted, in many instances, as 
types of the several National ideals. 

The volumes will be sold separately as follows: cloth extra, 
5s.; Roxburgh, uncut edges, gilt top, 6s. 

The following are now ready : 


NELSON. By W. Clark Russell. 
GUSTAVUS ADOLPHUS. By C. 


| JEANNE D’ARC. By Mrs. Oliphant. 
CHRISTOPHER COLUMBUS. By 


R. L. Fletcher. 

PERICLES. By Evelyn Abbott. 

THEODORIC THE GOTH. By 
Thomas Hodgkin. 

SIR PHILIP SIDNEY. By. H.R. 
Fox-Bourne. 
JULIUS CAESAR. 

Fowler. 

WYCLIF. By Lewis Sergeant. 

NAPOLEON. By W. O’Connor Mor- 
ris. 

HENRY OF NAVARRE, By P. F. 
Willert. 

CICERO. By J. L. Strachan-David- 
son. 

ABRAHAM LINCOLN. 
Brooks. 

PRINCE HENRY (OF PORTUGAL) 
THE NAVIGATOR. By C. R. 
Beazley. 

JULIAN THE PHILOSOPHER. 
By Alice Gardner. 

LOUIS XIV. By Arthur Hassall. 

CHARLES XII. By R. Nisbet Bain, 

LORENZO DE’ MEDICI. By Ed- 
ward Armstrong. 


By W. Warde 


By Noah 





Washington Irving. 
ROBERT THE BRUCE. 
Herbert Maxwell. 
HANNIBAL. By W. O’Connor Mor- 
ris. 
ULYSSES S. GRANT. 
Conant Church. 
ROBERT E.LEE. By Henry Alex- 
ander White. 

THE CID CAMPEADOR., 
Butler Clarke. 

SALADIN. By Stanley Lane-Poole. 

BISMARCK. By J. W. Headlam. 

ALEXANDER THE GREAT. By 
Benjamin I. Wheeler. 

CHARLEMAGNE. By H. W. C. 
Davis. 

OLIVER CROMWELL. By Charles 
Firth. 

RICHELIEU. By James B. Perkins. 

DANIEL O’CONNELL. By Robert 
Dunlop. 

SAINT LOUIS (Louis IX., of France). 
By Frederick Perry. 

LORD CHATHAM. 
Davis Green, 


By Sir 


By William 


By H. 


By Walford 


Other volumes. in preparation are : 


MOLTKE. By Spencer Wilkinson. 
JUDAS MACCABZEUS. By Israel 


Abrahams. 

HENRY V. By Charles L. Kings- 
ford. 

SOBIESKI. By F. A. Pollard. 


ALFRED THE TRUTHTELLER, 
By Frederick Perry. 


FREDERICK II. By A. L. Smith. 

MARLBOROUGH. By C. W. C. 
Oman. 

RICHARD THE LION-HEARTED., 
By T. A. Archer. 

WILLIAM THE SILENT. By Ruth 
Putnam. 

JUSTINIAN. By Edward Jenks. 


G. P. PUTNAM’S SONS, Pus.isHers, NEw YorK AND LONDON, 


Heroes of the Reformation. 


EDITED BY 


SAMUEL MACAULEY JACKSON, 
Professor of Church History, New York University. 


Fully illustrated. Each 12°, cloth, 6/- 


A Series of biographies of the leaders in the Protes. 
tant Reformation. 

The literary skill and the standing as scholars of the 
writers who have agreed to prepare these biographies 
will, it is believed, ensure for them a wide acceptance on 
the part not only of special students of the period but of 
the general reader. Full use will be made in them of the 
correspondence of their several subjects and of any other 
autobiographical material that may be available. The 
general reader will be pleased to find all these citations 
translated into English and the scholar to find them 
referred specifically to their source. The value of these 
volumes will be furthered by comprehensive literary and 
historical references and adequate indexes. 

It is, of course, the case that each one of the great 
teachers whose career is to be presented in this series 
looked at religious truth and at the problems of Chris- 
tianity from a somewhat different point of view. On this 
ground an important feature in each volume of the series 
will be a precise and comprehensive statement, given as 
nearly as practicable in the language of the original 
writer, of the essential points in his theology. 

It is planned that the narratives shall be not mere 
eulogies, but critical biographies; and the defects of 
judgment or sins of omission or commission on the parts 
of the subjects will not be passed by or extenuated. On 
the other hand they will do full justice to the nobility of 
character and to the distinctive contribution to human 
progress made by each one of these great Protestant 
leaders of the Reformation period. The series will avoid 
the partisanship of writers like Merle d’Aubigné, and, in 
the opposite direction, of the group of which Johannes 
Janssen may be taken as a type. 


PIC RVES VE TIE ROEOPFURIMALIUIN 


I.—Martin Luther (1483-1546). THe HERO OF THE REFOR- 
MATION. By Henry Eyster Jacobs, D.D., LL.D. (Thiel 
College, 1877, and 1891, respectively) ; Professor of Sys- 
tematic Theology, Evangelical Lutheran Seminary, Phila- 
delphia, Pa.; author of ‘‘ The Lutheran Movement in 
England during the Reigns of Henry VIII. and Edward 
VI.,and its Literary Monuments.”” With 73 illustrations, 
12°, 6/-. 

T1.—Philip Melanchthon (1497-1560). THE PROTESTANT 
PRECEPTOR OF GERMANY, By James William Richard, 
D.D. (Pennsylvania College, 1886) ; Professor of Homi- 
letics, Lutheran Theological Seminary, Gettysburg, Pa. 
With 35 illustrations. 12°, 6/-. 


I1i.—Desiderius Erasmus (1467-1536). THE HUMANIST IN 
THE SERVICE OF THE REFORMATION. By Ephraim Emer- 
ton, Ph.D. (Leipzig University, 1876) ; Professor of Eccle- 
siastical History, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. ; 
author of ‘‘ The Middle Ages (375-1300).”” With 36 il- 
lustrations. 12°, 6/-. 

IV.—Theodore Beza (1519-1605), THE COUNSELLOR OF THE 
FRENCH REFORMATION. By Henry Martyn Baird, Ph.D. 
(College of New Jersey, 1867); D.D. (Rutgers College, 
1877); LL.D. (College of New Jersey, 1882); L.H.D. 
(Princeton University, 1896); Professor of the Greek 
Language and Literature, New York University ; author 
of ‘‘ The Huguenots,” 6 vols, 12°, 6/— 


V.—Huldreich Zwingli (1484-1531). THe REFORMER OF 
GERMAN SWITZERLAND. By Samuel Macauley Jackson, 
LL.D. (Washington and Lee University, 1892); D.D. 
(New York University, 1893); Professor of Church His- 
tory, New York University. Editor of the Series. 


The following are in preparation :— 


ViI.—Jolin Calvin (1509-1564). THE FOUNDER OF REFORMED 
PROTESTANTISM. By Williston Walker, Ph.D. (Leipzig 
University, 1888) ; D.D. (Adelbert College, 1894, Amherst 
College, 1895); Professor of Germanic and Western Church 
Ilistory, Theological Seminary, Hartford, Conn. ; author 
of ‘‘ The Creeds and Platforms of Congregationalism.” 

VII.—John Knox (1505-1572). THE HERO oF THE SCOTCH 
REFORMATION. By Henry Cowan, D.D., (Aberdeen, 

1888). Professor of Church History, the University of 

+ “tAberdeén, Scotland ; author of ““ Landmarks of Church 
History,” ‘‘ The Influence of the Scottish Church upon 


Christendom.” 
VIII.—Thomas Cranmer (1489-1556). THE ENGLISH RE- 
) sR FOKMER. (Author will be announced later.) 


\ 


= G. Pe PUTNAM’S_SONS, New York AND LONDON 














| 





BR 
345 
J3 


Jackson, Samuel Macauley, 1851-1912. 


Huldreich Zwingli, the reformer of German Swit 
by Samuel Macauley Jackson ... together with an h 
survey of Switzerland before the reformation, by Pr 
Martin Vincent ... and a chapter on Zwingli’s theo 
Prof, Frank Hugh Foster .... New York and Londc 


Putnam’s sons, 1901 [¢1900] 

3 p. 1. v-xxvi, 519 p. 27 pl. (1 double) 2 port. (incl. fre 
map, plan, 2 fold. facsim. 20cm. (Half-title: Heroes of the 
tion. Vv. 5;) 

Bibliography: p. xxi—xxvi. 

1. Zwingli, Ulric, 1484-1531. 2. Reformation—Switzerlan 
Vincent, John Martin, 1857-19389. wm. Foster, Frank Hugh, 1 


iile Titles 
BR345.J3 1 


4 £0 23uirary of Congress —~ 59ul CCSC/sr 


Denny 
Ree 


ve ’ 
Pe oy 


Oe kW ee 
Sat or 





