iiiPi' 


FROM  THE  LIBRARY  OF 
REV.   LOUIS    FITZGERALD    BENSON.  D.  D. 

BEQUEATHED   BY  HIM  TO 

THE  LIBRARY  OF 

PRINCETON  THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY 


tmOon 


m^s 


0  J  i^ 


^;    /U 


Z  W  r  N  G  L  I ; 


THE   RISE   OF   THE   REFORMATION   IN 
SWITZERLAND. 

A  LIFE  OF  THE  EEFOEMER, 

WITH  SOME  NOTICES  OF  IIIS  TIME  AND  CONTEMPORARIES, 

uv 

R.  CHRISTOFFEL, 

PASTOR  OF  THE  UEFOHMKU  CIllMlCU,  WINTEKSINGF.JJ,  SWlTZKltLANU. 

TRANSLATED  FROM  THE  GERMAN, 


JOHN  COCHRAN,   Esq. 


EDINBURGH : 
T.  &  T.   CLARK,  38  GEORGE  STREET. 

LONDON:    HAMILTON,    ADAMS,    &    CO.       DUBLIN:    JOHN    ROBERTSON. 
PHILADELPHIA  :    SMITH,    ENGLISH,    &    CO. 


MDCCCLmi. 


EDINBURGH  : 
PRINTED  BY  TUKNBUM.  AND  Sl'EARS,  HANOVER  STREET. 


r  K  K  K  A  I*  K. 


The  object  of  tlie  present  work  is  to  set  Zwiiii^ii  lufove  us  as  li 
lived,  and  as  lie  wroa.^ht.  The  Autlidr  has  adopted  the  jil; 
likely  to  be  most  successful  in  conveying  an  accurate  impression 
of  his  subject; — lie  has  made  his  work,  as  far  as  the  matinials  at 
his  command  would  admit  of,  autobiographical,  ^\'e  have 
extracts  from  tlie  Reformer's  correspondence — we  are  introduced 
to  the  circle  of  his  friends — we  are  thrown  into  the  arena  of  his 
mighty  contests — we  are  conducted  througli  the  vineyard  in 
which  he  laboured — we  are  admitted  to  view  the  interior  of  his 
domestic  life.  But  in  the  communication  of  this  information  it 
is  chiefly  the  hero  himself  who  speaks,  and  tells  us  the  story  of 
his  life.  The  portraiture  of  the  lieformer  thus  drawn  may  be 
accepted  as  faithful;  it  can  hardly  Ite  dthcrwise;  the  ])lan  taken 
by  the  Author  is  certainly  that  best  adapted  for  proilucing  what 
may  be  called  a  photographic  delineation  of  cluiracter.  TUit  it 
is  not  only  the  Reformer  himself  who  is  here  sketched  to  the  life, 
much  light  is  thrown  upon  his  coadjutors  in  the  work  of  Ilefor- 
mation,  upon  the  rise  and  histoiy  of  the  great  movement  itself, 
and  upon  the  manners  and  modes  of  thinking  of  the  times  in 
which  it  took  place.  We  believe  the  work  will  l»e  generally 
acceptable  to  the  Engli.sh  public,  as  a  faithful  record  of  the 
iloiuLTs  and  savings  of  one  of  the  ni)bl<'st  characters  of  an  eventful 
ey)och. 

Tiir,  TnANsi.A'roij. 

April,  lg.-.8. 


CONTENTS 


FIHST  SECTION. 

HULDUKICH  ZWI.vm.l's  UOYIIOOD   .\M>  St'lKXtl.-TI  MK. 

rAi;K 

1.  Zwiiigli's  Parentage  and  Birthplace  ...  1 

2.  Zwingli  at  the  Schools  of  Basle  and  Berne       ...  4 

3.  Zwingli  at  the  High  Schools  of  Vienna  and  Basle  .  <> 

SECOND  SECTION. 

ZWINGLI   PARSON  IN  GLARU8  AND  EINSIEDELN. l.vOG-l.ilt*. 

1.  Zwingli's  Entrance  on  Ills  Curacy,  and  Fir.<t  Field  of  Liilxmr  li> 

2.  The  Great  Tenii)tation.s  an<l  Trials  of  the  Young  Priest  of  (ilarus  12 

3.  Glance  at  Zwingli's  Spiritual  Development  about  the  Year  1,510  .  19 

4.  Zwingli  at  F.insiedeln  .  .  .  ,  .  22 

THIRD  SECTION. 

ZWINGLl's    ENTR.VXCE  ON  llIS  OFFICIAL    DUTIFJJ  AT  ZURICH STYLE 

OF  PREACHING HIS    DIFFICULTIES   AND   CONFLICTS HIS  JOYS 

AND    SORROWS HIS   STUDIES    AND    FRUINDS FROM    1519-1.52.% 

<>K  TILL  THE  FIRST  DISPUTATION  ON  RELIGION. 

1.  Entrance  on  Official  Duties,  and  Style  of  Preaching  .  .34 

2.  Zwingli's  Labours  as  a  Patriot,  especially  in  regard  to  the  Evils  of 

Foreign  Military  Service  ....  42 

3.  Zwingli's  Lal)0urs  in  the  Reformation  of  Ecclesiastical  Abuses      .  .52 

4.  Zwingli's  First  Relation  to  Luther     ,                 ,                 .                 .  73 
.5.  Zwingli  in  the  School   of  the  Cross  —  Increasing  Numbers  <>f  tin- 
Friends  of  Evangelical  Truth         ....  TC 

fi.  Ilow  Zwingli  regarded  his  Labours  ami  Trials,  as  shewn  in  Lcttci-s 

to  his  Brotliers  and  Friends  .  .  .  .  f<8 

FOURTH  SECTION. 
Tin:  RKloliMATION  EFFF.CTrl*  I!Y  ZWINGLL  —  1.523-1.52r.. 

1.  The  Fermentation  Continues — A  New  Position  Gained  04 

2.  The  First   FJcligious  Conference  in  Zurich,  held  <>n  tbf  20th  .lanuarv 

1.523  .inn 


VI  CONTENTS. 


r'AGE 


3.  Results  of  the  Disputation — Principles  observed  h\  Zwinjili   in   the 

work  of  Reformation       .  .  .  .  .108 

4.  The  Cathedral  Foundation  at  the  Great  Minster  .  .  Ill 
.5.  The  Cloisters        .                 .                 .                 .                 .                 .115 

6.  Celibacy  .  .  .  .  .  .121 

7.  Images  and  the  Mass — Second  Disputation,  and  its  Consequences  12,5 

8.  Zwingli's  Laws  and  Regulations  for  Maintaining  Christian  Morality 

and  Exercising  Discipline  on  Laity  and  Clergy  .  .  151 

FIFTH  SECTION. 

zwingli's  labours  for  the  extension  and  support  of  the 
reformation  which  emanated  from  him,  in  the  other 
cantons  of  switzerland,  as  well  as  in  germany,  france, 
and  italy. 

1.  Zwingli's  Relation  to  the  New  Evangelical  Movement,  as  this  Mani- 

fested itself  in  some  of  the  Swiss  Cloisters  .  .  167 

2.  Zwingli's  Zealous  Labours  for  the  Extension  and  Establishment  of 

Evangelical  Truth  and  Doctrine  in  the  Cantons  of  East  Switzer- 
land ......  173 

3.  Zwingli's  Influence  on  the  Victoiy  of  the  Reformation  in  the  Canton 

of  Berne,  and  in  the  other  Cantons  of  Western  Switzerland — His 
Relations  to  Farel  .  .  .  .186 

4.  Zwingli's  Apostolic  Cares  and  Labours  for  the  Extension  and  Con- 

firmation of  Evangelical  Truth  in  Germany  .  .  193 

5.  Zwingli's  Circular  Letter  to  Peter  Sebilla — His  zeal  for  the  Exten- 

sion of  the  Gospel  in  F'rance  ....  203 

6.  Zwingli's  Correspondence  with  the  Aiigustine  Monk  of  Como — His 

Measures  for  the  Extension  of  the  Gospel  in  Italy     .  .  206 

SIXTH  SECTION. 

REACTIONARY  MEASURES  OF  THE  PAPAL  PARTY  FOR  CHECKING  AND 
SUPPRESSING  THE  REFORMATION. 

1 .  The  Overtures  of  the  Pope  and  the  Intrigues  of  Faher  are  alike  unable 

to  shake  Zwingli's  Faith  .  .  .  .200 

2.  The  Papistically  Disposed  Majority  of  the  Diet  gives  the  Signal  for 

the  Persecution  of  the  Evangelical  Party — Nicolas  Ilottinger  is 
Imprisoned  and  Executed — Gilchsli's  Imprisonment — Hans  Wirth 
and  his  Sons — Burkliardt  Rnctimann — Zurich's  Dangerous  State  212 

3.  Fabcr  employs  the  ill-humour  of  the  Swiss  Papal  Party  at  tlie  Defeat  • 

of  Pavia  to  form  a  closer  Alliance  with  the  Emperor — Baden's 
Ivcligious  Disputation — 'J'homas  Murncr — The  Insults  offered  to 
the  Zurichers — T1io  Formal  Alliance  of  the  Pajial  Cantons  with 
y\nstri.<i  ......  222 


CONTENTS.  vil 


SEVENTH  SE(  riON 

OlJSTACLliS  TO  TllK  PllOGRKSSOP  TUli  UEIuKMA TION,  AUISIXU  KUOM 
UIKFEKKNCES  OF  OPINION  UP(.tN  THK  SACUAMKNTS  OF  BAPTISM 
AND  THK  LOKD's  SUPPI'-K. 

I.   liitrodin.-ti(ju— Zwiiijili's  Staiiiliii;;-I'uiiit  .  liav 

■2.  'riic  Aiialjaptist.s  ul' Zurich — Tlu'ir  Owrtiiri's  to  Z\\  iii^li,  and  I""ai-tioiis 

Si)irit  ......  247 

.'i.    I'liblic  Disimtatiuii  witli  tlu-  Aiial)a|)tists,  tjtli  N<j\  L-nilur  l-'j^f)  "254 

4.  The  Riotous  Proceedings  of  the  Aiuil)ai)tist.<  in  tiie  (.'antuii  of  Zurich 

— Tlieir  Course  and  End  ....  2HU 

5.  The  Doctrine  of  Zwingli  and  of  Luther  in  regard  to  tiie  Lord's  Su]i- 

per — The  Idiosyncrasies  and  Ditferent  I)evelo]>nient  of  their  Minds 

— Origin  of  the  Strife  about  the  Lord's  Suj)i)er  280 

6.  How  the  Contest  regarding  the  Su])i)er  broke   out.  and  witii  \vliat 

Reasons  Zwingli   rebutted   the  Objections  of  Luther  against  his 
Doctrine  of  tlie  Suiii)cr  ....  305 

7.  The  Ditferent  Manner  in  wliich  Zwingli   and   Luther  comhicted  tlie 

Contest — The  Result  of  it  ....  320 

8.  The  Attempts  at  Union       .....  33.5 

EIGHTH  SECTION. 
ZWINGLI  IN  HIS  PmVATK  LIFK. 

1.  Zwingli's  Character — Wise  employment  of  Time  for  the  Desputcii  of 

Multifarious  Business — His  Domestic  Life  .  37.i 

2.  Zwingli  among  his  Friends  ....  379 

3.  Zwingli's  Search  after  Trutli,  or  his  Intellectual  Converse  with  the 

Holy  and  the  Great  Men  of  Anti<[uity  .  383 

4    Zwingli's  Communion  with  God — The   Lofty  Hcacli   and    I'nshaken 

C<mstancy  of  his  Faith  ....  3yo 

NINTH  SECTION. 

zwingli's  LAST  LABOURS — HK  DIES  THE  UEATU  OF  THECIIUISTIAN 
HERO  AT  CAPPEL,  llTH  OCTOBER  153L 

L  Christian  Civil  Rights  .  .  .401 

2.  Rupture   between    the    Protestant   and   Roman    Catholic    Parties  in 

Switzerland,  and  First  Cappel  War  .  .  412 

3.  Zv>'ingli's  Reforming  Labours  in  the  latter  years  of  his  Life  432 

4.  Origin  and  Close  of  the  Second  Capjiel  War-  Zwingli's  Death  4.17 


Fl  RST   SECTION. 

llULDHKICll  ZWINGLI'S  BOYHOOD  AND  SCIIOOL-TLMK 


Yea,  I  have  loved  thee  with  an  cverlastiii}!;  love;  therefore  witli  loving'  kindness 
have  I  drawn  thee." — Jek.  xxxi.  3. 


1.  ZwixGLi's  Parentage  and  Birthplace. 

At  tlie  Jlastorn  extremity  nf  tlie  pleasant  valley  of  Toggenburg, 
at  an  almost  Al]>ino  lu-i^lit,  lies  the  village  of  Wildlums.  A 
simple  dwelling,  that  stands  on  a  green  meadow  to  the  right  of 
the  highway,  recalls  to  the  mind  of  the  traveller,  as  he  passes 
throngh  this  monntain  valley,  the  memorv^  of  a  great  man.  For  in 
this  plain  but  cheerful-looking  house  stood  the  cradle  oi' Zwingli, 
the  Eeformer,  a  man  by  whose  agency  God  caused  the  light  of 
His  glorious  gospel  once  more  to  arise  in  new  splendour  over 
a  world  darkened  by  human  invention  and  by  sin.  In  the  latter 
half  of  the  fifteenth  century,  there  lived  here,  begirt  by  a  numer- 
ous flock  of  children,  a  respectable  and  pious  couple,  Huldreich 
Zwingli  and  Margaritha,  whose  maiden  name  was  MeiH.  The 
confidence  and  esteem  which  Zwingli,  the  father,  enjoyed  among 
his  fellow-^'illagers  had  raised  him  to  the  office  of  head  or  am- 
manu  of  the  conmiunity.  This  mark  of  their  confidence  they 
confen-ed  upon  him  as  soon  as,  in  the  gradual  development  of  a 
freer  constitution,  they  had  wrung  from  the  manor  of  the  land, 
the  Abbot  of  St.  Gall,  the  right  of  choosing  their  judges,  their 
ammann,  and  even  the  parson  himself  In  its  ecclesiastical  rela- 
tion.s,  Wildhaus  had  formerly  stood  in  filial  dependence  on  Gams; 
but,  at  the  ex])ivssed  \nsli  of  the  inhabitants,  it  had  been  raised 
to  the  position  of  an  independent  community,  and  the  first  par- 
son they  elected,  in  tlie  exercise  of  their  new  rights,  was  tlie  bro- 
ther of  the  ammann,  Bartliolonijeus  ZwingH.  He  was  afterwards, 
from  1+S7  till  1513.  pars«m  and  dean  at  Wesen,  at  the  outlet  of 
the  Walleu  Lake.     The  mother  of  Zwingli  had  also  a  brother  an 

a 


2  PARENTAGE   AND   BIRTHPLACE. 

ecclesiastic,  John  Meili,  from  1510  till  1523  abbot  of  the  cloister 
of  Fischingen,  in  the  canton  of  Thurgau.  The  inhabitants  of 
Wildhaiis  had  been  from  time  immemorial  known  as  a  cheerful, 
merry,  song-loving  people.  The  natural  character  of  their  coun- 
try made  them  shepherds.  In  the  first  days  of  May,  as  soon  as 
the  mountains  put  on  their  coats  of  green,  the  cattle  is  driven  up 
with  the  harmonious  clangour  of  bells,  to  the  higher  pastures, 
and  ever  higher  and  higher  a  part  of  the  inhabitants  continue  to 
ascend,  till,  at  the  end  of  July,  the  loftiest  Alp  is  reached.  The 
youngsters,  who  are  left  at  home  during  this  summer  time,  to 
attend  to  the  affairs  of  the  house,  and  to  gather  in  the  hay  for 
provender  to  the  cattle  during  winter,  haste  on  the  Sundays 
up  the  steep  sides  of  the  mountain  to  celebrate  with  their  com- 
panions, who  are  tending  the  flocks,  gladsome  pastoral  sports,  in 
which  the  joyous  note  of  song  mixes  itself  with  the  simple  tone 
of  the  Alpine  horn.  ^\^ien  winter  extends  its  domain  from  the 
icy  summits,  the  shepherds  drive  their  flocks  downwards  in  the 
direction  of  the  winter  stalls.  This  simple-hearted  peasantry 
spend  the  winter  evenings  in  rude  hamlets,  dimly  lit  by  a  tal- 
low candle,  but  the  dreary  time  is  lightened  by  the  joyous  voice 
of  song  or  the  pleasant  tone  of  some  musical  instrument,  for  rare 
it  is  to  find  a  cottage  in  which  some  of  the  inmates  at  least  can- 
not handle  an  instrument.  The  Ammann  Zwingli  had  meadows 
and  alps,  and  he  and  his  family  shared  the  calling  and  the  joys 
of  his  fellow-villagers.  On  the  1st  of  January  1484,  his  spouse 
presented  him  with  a  son,  who  received  from  liis  paternal  uncle. 
Parson  Bartholomieus,  the  rite  of  baptism,  and  the  name  of  his 
father.  Young  Huldreicli  had  seven  brothers  and  two  sisters. 
He  appears  to  have  been  from  an  early  age  distinguished  for  the 
liveliness  of  his  disposition,  and  the  quickness  of  his  parts,  so 
that  the  eyes  of  his  parents  and  his  tw^o  spiritual  uncles  rested 
on  him  with  satisfaction  and  full  of  hope.  It  was  the  desire  of 
their  hearts  that  he  should  be  a  priest,  as  his  father's  brother  and 
his  mother's  brother  were.  The  mind  of  the  boy  Zwingli  received 
its  first  intellectual  nourishment  in  his  father's  house,  and  in  the 
long  winter  evenings,  when  his  father  related,  in  the  circle  of  his 
family  and  more  intimate  associates,  stories  from  Swiss  history, 
shewing  liis  attentive  auditors  how  their  native  valley  of  Toggen- 
burg  had  acquired  greater  and  yet  greater  freedom,  and  how  its 


rARENTAUE   AND    BIllTHrLAfK.  3 

inhal>itaiit«  had  secured  tlieinselves  in  the  possession  of  it,  hy 
allying  themselves  Mith  the  bold  confederates  who  rolled  buclk 
from  their  mountain  steeps  the  hosts  of  Charles  the  Bold.  Tales 
of  this  sort  fell  like  sparks  of  living  fire  on  the  soul  of  young 
Iluldreich,  and  in  the  age  of  his  manhood  they  burst  forth  into  an 
ardent  love  of  home  and  native  country.  The  boy  often,  too, 
hung  on  the  lips  of  his  pious  grandmother,  ns  she  stirred  his  piety 
by  the  relation  of  legendary  tales  and  bil)lical  stories.  But,  most 
of  all,  the  language  in  which  God  speaks  to  the  inhabitants  of 
the  mountain  regions  moved  his  young  spirit.  "  I  have  often 
thought,  in  my  simplicity,"  writes  his  friend  Oswald  Myconius, 
"  that  from  these  sublime  heights,  Mhich  stretcli  up  towards 
heaven,  he  has  taken  something  heaveidy  and  divine."  ^Vhen 
the  thunder  rolls  tlirough  the  gorges  of  the  mountains,  and  leaps 
from  crag  to  crag  with  crashing  roar,  then  it  is  as  if  we  heard 
anew  the  voice  of  the  Lord  God  proclaiming,  "  I  am  the  Almighty 
God,  walk  before  me,  and  be  thou  perfect."  Wlien  in  the  dawn 
of  morning  the  icy  mountains  glow  in  light  divine,  so  that  a  sea 
of  fire  seems  to  surround  all  their  tops,  it  is  as  if  "  the  Lord  God 
of  Hosts  treadeth  upon  the  high  places  of  the  earth,"*  and  as  if 
the  border  of  His  garment  of  light  had  transfigured  the  hills.  It 
is  then  that,  with  reverential  awe,  we  feel  as  if  the  ciy  came  to 
us  also  which  pierced  to  the  ear  of  Isaiah,  "  Holy,  holy,  holy,  is 
the  Lord  of  Hosts  ;  the  whole  earth  is  full  of  his  glory." -f-  Here, 
under  the  magnificent  impressions  of  a  mountain  world  and  their 
wonders,  there  awoke  in  the  breast  of  young  Zwingli  the  first 
a^\iul  sense  of  the  grandeur  and  majesty  of  CJod,  which  after- 
wards filled  his  whole  soul,  and  armed  him  with  intrepidity  in 
the  great  conflict  with  the  powers  of  darkness.  In  the  solitude 
of  the  mountains,  broken  only  by  the  bells  of  his  pasturing  flocks, 
the  reflective  boy  mused  on  the  wisdom  of  God  which  reveals 
itself  in  all  creatures.  An  echo  of  this  deep  contemplation  of 
nature,  which  occupied  his  harmless  youth,  we  find  in  a  work 
which,  in  the  ripeness  of  manhood,  he  composed  on  "  The  Pro- 
vidence of  God." J  "Do  not,"  says  he  in  this  treatise,  "even  the 
animals  which  belong  to  the  genus  of  mice  proclaim  the  wisdom 
and  providence  of  God  ?  "Wlien,  for  example,  the  hedgehog  car- 
ries so  dexterously  into  his  hole  a  quantity  of  fruit  on  his  prickles. 

*  Amos  iv.  13.  t  Isaiah  vi.  .1.  J  Dc  ProvidcntiA  Dei. 


4  AT  THE  SCHOOLS  OF  BASLE  AND  BERNE. 

rolling  himself  round  on  it,  and  forking  it — or  when  the  marmot 
sets  one  of  his  number  as  a  watch  on  an  eminence,  that  by  its 
whistle  it  may  give  warning  at  the  right  time  of  the  approach  of 
danger,  to  those  who  are  running  about  and  working,  gathering 
together  the  softest  hay,  one  making  a  waggon  of  the  other,  this 
one  lying  on  its  back,  allowing  itself  to  be  loaded  on  belly  and 
breast  with  hay,  which  it  catches  with  its  feet,  and  holds  fast, 
that  seizing  his  fellow,  which  has  let  himself  be  made  a  hurdle 
of,  by  the  tail,  and  carrying  him  with  the  booty  to  the  store- 
house, which  work  the  animals  perform  that  they  may  pass  the 
winter  in  sleep — or  when  the  squirrel  draws  a  piece  of  wood  to 
the  bank  with  its  mouth,  and  ferries  across  a  river  as  if  in  a 
canoe,  its  upright  tail  serving  it  instead  of  a  sail — what  voice, 
what  language  can  so  highly  exalt  the  divine  wisdom  as  the  acts 
of  these  animals  do  which  belong  to  the  lowest  order  of  intelli- 
gence ?  Nay,  do  not  even  the  things  without  sense  and  intelli- 
gence manifest  that  the  power,  goodness,  the  renewing  and  sus- 
taining energy  of  God  is  present  with  them  ?  The  earth,  for  ex- 
ample, the  mother  of  all,  shuts  never  ruthlessly  her  rich  treasures 
within  herself;  she  heeds  not  the  wounds  made  on  her  by  spade 
and  share.  The  dew,  the  rain,  the  rivers  moisten,  restore,  quicken 
within  her  that  which  had  been  brought  to  a  still-stand  in  growth 
by  drought,  and  its  after-thriving  testifies  wondrously  of  the  divine 
power.  The  mountains,  too,  these  awkward,  rude,  inert  masses, 
that  give  to  the  earth,  as  the  bones  to  the  flesh,  solidity,  form,  and 
consistency,  that  render  impossible,  or  at  least  difficult,  the  passage 
from  one  place  to  another,  which,  although  heavier  than  the  earth 
itself,  yet  soar  far  above  it,  and  never  sink,  do  they  not  pro- 
claim the  imperishable  might  of  Jehovah,  and  speak  forth  the 
whole  volume  of  His  majesty  ?  In  these  works  of  God  we  be- 
hold proofs  of  the  existence  of  that  divine  power  which  sustains 
them  all  in  being,  not  less  than  in  Man  himself" 


2.    ZWENGLI  AT  THE  SCHOOLS  OF  BASLE  AND  BeRNE. 

On  young  Huldreich's  reaching  his  eighth  or  ninth  year,  his 
father  resolved  to  take  him  to  his  uncle  at  Wesen,  and  commit 
the  boy  to  the  charge  of  this  relative.     The  way  to  Wesen  led 


AT  THE  SCHOOLS  OF  BASLE  AND  BEIJNE.  5 

father  and  son  over  the  green  heights  of  the  Amnion,  iVcjni  wliose 
sununit  young  Zwiugli  for  the  first  time  looked  abroad  \ipon  the 
wide  workl,  now,  as  it  were,  unrolled  before  his  eye.  AVell 
might  the  glance  of  the  future  apostle  of  the  truth  from  this 
summit  sweep  full  of  boding  meaning  to  the  valley  of  Glarus,  to 
the  woody  heights  of  Einsiedehi,  and  to  the  lovely  shores  of  the 
lake  of  Zurich,  at  each  and  all  of  which  places,  he  afterwards, 
in  full  trust  in  the  God  who  laid  the  foundation  of  the  hills, 
waged  the  glorious  war  for  the  faith  once  delivered  to  the  saints. 
The  dean  of  Wesen  loved  his  brothers  child  as  his  own  son,  and 
sent  him  to  the  public  school  to  receive  the  first  rudiments  of 
his  education.  A\nien  the  knowledge  of  his  master  at  this  semi- 
nary, as  soon  happened,  no  longer  met  the  demands  of  the 
ready-witted  pupil,  his  uncle  took  care  to  have  him  sent  to  Basle, 
and  placed  there  under  the  charge  of  his  friend,  George  lUnzli. 
Binzli  was  a  learned  man,  who,  at  the  same  time,  possessed  a 
mild  disposition  and  a  warm  heart.  Here,  too,  the  rapid  pro- 
gress of  the  boy  speedily  outran  the  capabilities  of  the  master. 
Young  lluldreich  was  especially  clever  in  the  disputations  which 
were  then  common  as  well  in  the  lower  as  in  the  higher  schools, 
excelling  in  these  all  his  class-fellow^s.  His  musical  talents, 
too,  began  to  develope  themselves  in  an  extraordinary  degi'ce, 
and  to  excite  universal  admiration.  The  faithful  teacher,  per- 
ceiving that  his  school  would  no  longer  avail  for  his  precocious 
scholar,  sent  him  home,  with  a  recommendation  that  he  might 
be  sent  to  a  seminary  better  correspondent  with  the  attainments 
he  had  made.  At  that  time,  Henry  AVoeltlin  (Lupulus),  at  Berne, 
taught  the  dead  languages  with  great  applause.  The  Ammann  of 
Wildhaus  and  the  Dean  of  Wesen  resolved  to  send  the  boy  tliithcr. 
Lupulus  was  deeply  read  in  the  Greek  and  lionian  classics, 
and  in  ancient  history;  he  had  also  made  a  journey  to  the  Holy 
Sepulchre,  and,  by  personal  obseiTation,  had  gained  a  knowledge 
of  Italy,  Greece,  and  Palestine.  The  history  of  his  native  countiy, 
too,  he  had  investigated  with  diligence,  and  he  liad  sung  with 
enthusiasm  the  life  of  the  pious  hermit  Nicolaus  von  dcr  Fhiee. 
Under  his  tuition  Zwingli  was  introduced  to  an  accpiaintance 
with  the  Eoman  orators  and  poets,  and  at  the  du-ection  of  this 
teacher  he  began  to  exercise  his  ]ioetic  talent  in  attempts  in 
verse,  after  the  models  of  the  great  I^tin  poets.     The  Dominican 


6  AT  THE  HIGH  SCHOOLS  OF  VIENNA  AND  BASLE. 

monks,  who  in  Berne  as  well  as  in  other  places,  strove  in  rivalry, 
by  means  lawful  as  well  as  unlawful,  with  the  Franciscans,  for 
the  superior  veneration  of  the  people,  had  their  attention  turned 
to  the  sharp-witted  boy  with  the  surprising  musical  talents,  and 
sought  to  win  him  for  their  order.  With  this  design,  they  in- 
duced him  to  enter  their  cloister,  and  live  in  it,  till  he  should 
reach  the  age  that  might  permit  him  to  become  a  member  of 
their  order.  But  the  eye  of  God  watched  over  the  lad,  and  pre- 
served him  from  the  snares  of  these  coriiipted  monks.  His 
father  and  uncle  heard  of  the  danger  which  impended  over  young 
Huldreich,  and  they  recalled  him  home,  to  send  him  elsewhere. 


3.    ZWINGLI  AT  THE  HiGH  SCHOOLS  OF  VIENNA  AND  BaSLE. 

Zwingli  had  now  attained  a  development  of  understanding, 
and  an  extent  of  learning  which  fitted  him  to  attend  the  High 
School.  At  the  advice  of  his  uncle,  the  celebrated  High  School 
of  Vienna,  which  had  obtained,  under  the  Emperor  Maximilian 
I.,  an  increase  of  renown,  was  selected.  Here  he  formed  the 
acquaintance  of  two  intelligent  youths  from  his  own  countiy, 
both  of  whom,  at  a  later  period,  had  their  brows  encircled  ^\dtli 
the  poetic  wreath,  by  the  hand  of  the  Emperor,  and  acquired 
great  fame  as  men  of  learning.  Joachim  von  Watt,  called  Va- 
dian,  son  of  a  rich  merchant  of  St.  Gall,  was  the  one;  Henry 
Loreti,  called  Glareanus,  a  peasant's  son  from  Mollis,  in  the 
canton  of  Glarus,  was  the  other.  The  three  Swiss  youths,  united 
to  each  other  in  the  bonds  of  a  close  friendship,  devoted  them- 
selves with  unwearied  assiduity,  and  distinguished  success,  to 
the  investigation  of  the  sciences,  then  dignified  with  the  name  of 
philosophy ;  but  above  all,  and  with  especial  predilection,  to  the 
study  of  the  Eoman  classics.  Two  Suabian  youths  studied  along 
with  them  at  Vienna,  who  were  also  closely  connected  with  the 
young  Swiss,  John  Heigerlin,  the  son  of  a  smith  at  Leutkirch, 
hence  called  Smith  or  Faber,  and  John  Mayer  von  Enk,  gene- 
rally surnamed  Eck.  Both  of  these  ranked  afterwards  amongst 
the  most  virulent  enemies  of  the  Eeformation. 

Zwingli,  after  having  laid  in,  during  about  two  years  study  at 
Vienna,  rich  stores  of  intellectual  wealth,  was  called  home  by 


AT  THE  HIGH  SCHOOLS  OF  VIENNA  AND  BASLE.  7 

his  t'atlier  about  the  year  1502.  The  desire  to  prosecute  his 
studies,  and  also  to  apply  the  results  of  his  industry,  impelled 
him,  shortly  after,  to  proceed  to  Basle.  Arrived  there,  he  became 
teacher  in  the  school  of  St.  IMartin,  and,  with  the  best  success, 
introduced  the  youth  who  attended  the  school  to  the  knowledge 
of  Latin.  At  the  same  time,  he  attended  himself  the  prelections 
of  the  High  School.  Myconius  writes,  in  reference  to  his  studies 
at  this  period: — "He  studied  philosophy  here  with  more  ex- 
actness than  ever,  and  ])ursued  into  all  their  refinements  the 
idle,  hair-splitting  sophistries  of  the  schoolmen  (sophists),  with 
no  other  intention  than  that,  if  ever  he  should  come  to  close 
quarters  with  him,  he  might  know  his  enemy,  and  beat  him  with 
his  own  weajions.  He  diversified  his  more  serious  studies  by 
indulging  in  pleasantry  and  wit  among  his  friends,  for  he  had 
indeed  great  gaiety  of  spirit,  and  his  discourse  overflowed  with 
wit  and  learning."  To  the  number  of  his  friends  also  at  this 
period,  belonged  Wolfgang  Fabricius  Capito,  a  native  of  Hage- 
nau,  in  Alsace,  of  whom  we  shall  aftenvards  hear  more.  But  in 
regard  to  a  teacher  here,  the  Lord,  whose  eye  had  watched  over 
his  youth  so  faithfully,  and  whose  hand  had  led  him  thus  far  so 
wisely,  ordered  things  well  for  him  in  this  respect  also.  He  here 
found  an  instructor  suited  to  his  necessities,  one  who,  instead  of 
conducting  him  to  the  barren  steppes  of  school-wisdom,  which 
only  feeds  the  common  mind  with  vanity,  while  it  incites  the 
ingenious  to  ridicule  the  folly  of  its  lessons,  led  Inm  to  the  ever- 
green pastures?  of  heavenly  wisdom,  as  they  are  revealed  in  the 
Word  of  God.  Thomas  Wittenbach,  a  native  of  Bil,  in  Switzer- 
land, had  studied  at  Tuebingen,  where  he  delivered,  afterwards, 
prelections  in  the  High  School,  and  came  in  1.505  to  Basle.  To 
a  profound  knowledge  of  the  Latin  and  Greek  languages,  and  the 
works  contained  in  them,  this  eminent  man  added  that  of  a  deep 
acquaintani.-e  with  Holy  Scripture.  Out  of  the  l)arreu  deserts  of 
school-wisdom,  destitute  of  all  Avater,  it  was  the  delight  of  this 
excellent  man  to  lead  his  pupils  to  the  living  sources  of  God's 
Word,  and  teach  them  to  draw  water  from  thence  for  Ihi'msclves 
and  their  flocks.  It  was  in  the  light  of  (iod's  Word  that  he  .saw 
and  felt  beforehand  what  at  a  later  period,  was  loudly  proclaimed 
by  others,  "  The  time  is  not  far  distant,"  said  he,  with  prophetic 
wisdom,  'when  the  scholastic  theohigy  will  be  swept  away,  and 


8  AT  THE  HIGH  SCHOOLS  OF  VIENNA  AND  BASLE. 

tJie  old  doctrine  of  the  Cluirch  established  in  its  room,  on  the 
foundation  of  God's  Word.  Absolution  is  a  Romish  cheat;  the 
death  of  Christ  is  the  only  payment  for  our  sins."  Such  a  seed- 
corn  as  this,  f(juiid  in  the  heart  of  Zwingii,  so  receptive  of  the 
true,  a  soil  in  which  it  struck  its  roots  vigorously,  shot  up  strongly, 
and  bore  noble  fruit  at  an  after  day. 

It  was  at  the  feet  of  Wittenbach  that  Zwingii  met  with  a  youth, 
just  then  entering  his  twenty-third  year,  with  whom  he  formed 
a  covenant  of  friendship  that  lasted  till  death.  Leo  Jud,  son  of 
a  priest  of  Eappoldswyl,  in  Alsace,  was  the  diminutive,  sickly, 
mild,  but  bold  and  intrepid  youth  who  shared  with  Zwingii  a  like 
love  for  truth  and  for  music.  After  hard  study,  the  recreation  of 
the  two  friends  was  vocal  and  instrumental  music.  Leo  poured 
forth  a  fine  treble,  at  the  same  time  that  he  struck  the  tymbal, 
while  Zwingii,  who  had  so  well  cultivated  his  musical  talents 
that  he  could  handle  any  of  the  then  known  instruments  with 
equal  skill  and  ease,  played  an  accompaniment.  Their  sojourn 
together,  however,  was  not  long  now.  Soon  the  hour  stnick 
which  parted  the  friends  from  each  other  till  they  should  meet 
again  with  ripened  powers,  and  with  chosen  armour  from  God's 
Word,  to  wage  together  God's  battle  in  Zurich.  Leo  Jud  be- 
came, soon  after,  parson  at  St.  Pilt,  in  Alsace. 

Zwingii,  who  remained  at  Basle,  was  honoured  with,  the  de- 
gree of  Magister,  a  title  which  he  accepted  more  out  of  deference 
to  the  prejudices  of  men,  who  weigh  the  learning  by  the  title, 
than  from  any  sense  of  its  intrinsic  worth.  He  at  no  period 
made  use  of  the  degree,  being  wont  to  say,  "  One  is  our  Master, 
even  Christ."  The  period  of  his  studies  had  now  reached  its 
termination.  He  received  this  year  a  call  to  be  parson  at 
Glarus,  being  elected  by  the  free  votes  of  the  community,  and  he 
accepted  it.  He  entered  on  his  new  sphere  of  usefulness  with 
the  glad  consciousness  wntliin  him  that  he  had  well  employed 
the  season  of  preparation.  God  had  preserved  him  against  gross 
declensions,  despite  the  general  wickedness  and  corruptions  of 
the  time.  "  I  acknowledge  myself,"  are  his  words,  "  to  be  a  great 
sinner  before  God,  but  I  have  not  lived  immorally,  and  on  no 
occasion  has  discipline  been  exercised  upon  me."  With  a  heart 
overflowing  with  gratitude  for  the  divine  guidance,  he  exclaimed, 
"  God  has  granted  me,  from  the  age  of  boyhood,  to  devote  myself 


AT  THE  HIGH  SCHOOi.S  OF  VIENNA  AND  BASLK.  f) 

to  the  acc|uiieinent  of  kuowledgv,  liuinau  aiul  divine."  Nut  yet 
being  consecrated  to  the  priesthood,  he  went  to  Constance  to 
receive  the  consecration.  On  his  return  lu'  preached  at  lta])per- 
schwyl,  on  the  Lake  of  Zurich,  his  tirst  sermon,  and  he  for  the 
first  time  performed  mass  at  Wiklliaus,  his  native  town.  The 
(H)nnuunity  of  Ghirus  had,  in  tlie  free  exercise  of  their  rij;ht  of 
ek'ction,  chosen  the  young  magister  as  their  parson.  IV'fore, 
however,  Zwingli  coukl  enter  on  his  sacred  office,  he  was  des- 
tined to  have  a  ])ainl\d  personal  experience  of  the  system  of  cor- 
ruption under  which  liis  native  country  groaned  Henry  Gaddli, 
the  descendant  of  an  aristocratical  house,  at  this  time  Master  of 
the  Horse  to  the  Pope,  and  a  boon-companion  of  his  Holiness, 
appeared  with  a  papal  letter  of  investiture  for  the  })lace,  although 
he  was  already  in  the  possession  of  several  livings.  The  com- 
munity of  Glarus  maintained  their  right  of  election  with  success ; 
yet  Zwingli  was  obliged  to  indemnify  the  papal  intruder  with  a 
sum  of  money,  for  renouncing  claims  that  were  totally  groundless. 


SECOND   SECTI(3N. 

ZWINGLI  PARSON  IN  GLARUS  AND  EINSIEDELN. 
1506—1518. 


'  And  whatsoever  ye  do,  do  it  heartily." — Col.  iii.  23. 


1.  ZwiNGLi's  Entrance  on  his  Curacy,  and  First  Field  of 

Labour. 

About  tlie  end  of  tlie  year  1506,  our  young  priest,  wlio  had  now 
reached  his  twenty-second  year,  set  out  again  from  Wildhaus, 
and  crossed  the  Ammon  to  Wesen,  where  he  visited  his  paternal 
uncle.  From  Wesen  he  pursued  liis  way  along  the  hanks  of  the 
Linth,  by  a  path  which  here  winds  between  high  and  rocky  moun- 
tains, to  the  chief  town  of  the  canton  of  Glarus.  One  noble  resolve 
filled  the  soul  of  the  ardent  youth  as  he  journeyed  on :  "  /  will  be 
true  and  upright  before  God  in  every  situation  of  life  in  ivliich 
the  hand  of  the  Lord  may  place  me."  "  Hypocrisy  and  lying," 
he  writes,  as  the  result  of  his  early  reflections,  "  are  worse  than 
stealing.  Man  is  by  nothing  brought  so  much  to  resemble  God 
as  by  truth.  Lying  is  the  beginning  of  all  evil.  Glorious  is  the 
truth,  full  of  majesty,  commanding  even  the  respect  of  the  wicked." 
Zwingli  was  profoundly  sensible  that  the  servant  of  God  in  the 
cure  of  souls  must  apply  himself  unremittingly  to  serious  study, 
if  he  would  guard  his  soul  against  the  inroads  of  a  low  worldly- 
mindedness,  and  if  he  would  proclaim  the  truth  to  his  hearers 
with  living  conviction.  "  He  became  priest,"  writes  his  friend 
Myconius,  "  and  devoted  himself  with  his  whole  soul  to  the 
search  after  divine  truth,  for  he  was  well  aware  how  much  he 
must  know  to  whom  the  flock  of  Christ  is  entrusted."  Tlie 
Eoman  classics  he  continued  to  read  with  diligence,  chiefly  that 
they  might  be  useful  to  him  in  his  acquisition  of  truth,  and  in 
the  development  of  his  oratorical  powers.  As  for  truth  itself,  he 
went  for  it,  and  drew  it  with  untiring  industry,  out  of  the  peren- 


ENTRANCE    ON    HIS   CUIJACY,    &C.  I  I 

nial  stream  of  God's  Word,  where  it  tiows  in  unmixed  purity  and 
freshness.  Although  he  only  knew  holy  Scrii)ture  as  yet  in  the 
Latin  version,  he  passed  among  his  fellow  priests  for  one  who 
had  a  profound  knowledge  of  the  Bible.  He  well  knew,  however, 
and  felt  deeply,  ho^v  small  was  the  title  he  had  to  such  a  distinc- 
tion. The  efforts  of  Z^ingli  were  directed,  in  the  first  years 
of  his  priesthood,  along  with  the  investigation  of  truth,  to  the 
development  of  his  powers  as  a  public  speaker.  Tlie  great  orators 
of  anti(|uity,  those  masters  of  elocpience,  whom  Ik;  regarded  as 
unrivalled,  were  ever  present  to  him,  and  the  desire  burned 
within  him  to  work,  with  the  power  of  oratory,  in  Switzerland, 
and  in  the  cause  of  divine  tnith,  yet  greater  wonders  than  these 
luul  ever  wrought  by  their  spirit-stin'ing  harangiU'S  in  Greece  or 
Rome.  lu  his  parochial  labours  he  directed  his  first  attention  to 
the  young  and  their  training.  Under  his  influence,  a  Latin 
school  was  founded  at  Glarus,  the  guidance  of  which,  in  his 
ardent  love,  as  Mell  for  youtli  as  for  learning,  he  took  into  his 
own  hands.  A  band  of  young  men,  from  the  first  families  of  the 
land,  who,  but  for  Zwingli,  had  probal)ly  sunk  into  a  state  of 
intellectual  and  moral  degradation,  were  won  over  to  the  cause  of 
science  and  nobler  aims.  He  took  to  himself  his  younger  bro- 
ther James,  Avhose  education  he  superintended  with  brotherly 
affection.  As  soon  as  his  Latin  pupils  w^re  ripe  for  the  High 
School,  he  sent  them  away  either  to  Vienna,  where,  at  the  uni- 
versity' of  that  city,  the  friend  of  his  youth,  Yadian,  had  risen  to 
the  rank  of  professor  and  rector,  or  to  Basle,  where  Ghirean,  his 
friend,  taught  the  High  School,  the  excellent  man  boarding  the 
students  himself,  that  he  might  the  better  watch  over  their  edu- 
cation and  morals.  But  wherever  his  pupils  went,  they  bore 
engraved  on  their  hearts  the  memory  of  their  first  master,  and 
maintained  with  him  an  unbroken  correspondence.  "  Thou  ai-t 
to  us  like  a  guardian  angel,"  so  wrote  Peter  Tschu<li  from  Paris 
to  Zwingli,  while  his  brother,  VEgedius  Tschudi,  MTote  to  him, 
"  Help,  help  me,  that  I  may  be  recalled  to  thee,  for  nowliere  do 
I  like  so  well  to  dwell  as  near  thyself"  But  with  a  .still  warmer 
affection,  Valentine  Tschudi,  the  cousin  of  these  two  young  men, 
and  Zwingli's  successor  at  Glanis,  clove  to  Zwingli.  "  Can  1 
ever  cease,"  thus  wrote  he,  "to  be  grateful  to  tliee  for  thy  great 
benefits?     On  every  occasion  that  I  returned  to  my  home,  and 


12  TEMPTATIONS   AND   TRIALS. 

lately,  in  an  especial  manner,  when  I  was  four  days  suffering 
under  fever,  and  again,  when  I  left  my  books  behind  me  in 
Basle,  and  wdien  in  timidity  I  feared  to  be  burdensome  to  thee, 
thou  sentest  to  me  to  come  to  thee,  gavest  me  thy  books,  thy 
help,  thy  services.  Ah  !  the  whole  benevolence  of  thy  soul  over- 
flowed to  me,  and  it  was  not  in  any  general  w^ay  that  the  rich 
treasures  of  thy  learning  were  placed  at  my  disposal,  but  with  a 
special  regard  to  my  peculiar  circumstances  and  necessities." 

In  this  manner  Zwingii  wi'ought,  counteracting  the  baleful 
influences  of  the  time,  by  raising  the  standard  of  education,  and 
it  was  in  reference  to  his  labours  in  this  direction  that  one  who 
at  that  period  occupied  the  position  of  a  monarch  in  the  w^orld  of 
letters,  Erasmus  of  Eotterdam,  wrote  to  him :  "  All  hail !  say  I,  to 
the  Swiss  people,  whom  I  have  always  admired,  whose  intel- 
lectual and  moral  qualities  yourself,  and  men  such  as  yourself,  are 
training." 

But  his  other  duties  were  not  neglected.  Zwingii,  while  thus 
engaged  in  fostering  education  and  learning,  filled  the  office  of 
preacher  and  watcher  of  the  souls  of  men  with  a  conscientious 
fidelity,  which  awakened  in  the  bosoms  of  many  pious  fathers  in 
the  Church,  who  were  witnesses  of  the  zeal  and  ability  with 
which  he  discharged  the  duties  of  his  curacy,  sanguine  hopes 
that  an  age  of  piety  and  virtue  was  about  to  dawn  once  more 
upon  Switzerland.  He  liimself  whites  afterwards,  in  reference 
to  the  feelings  with  which  he  discharged  these  duties,  "  Young 
as  I  was,"  says  he,  "  the  ofiice  of  the  priesthood  filled  me  with 
greater  fear  than  joy,  for  this  was  ever  present  to  me,  that  the 
blood  of  the  sheep  who  perished  through  any  neglect  or  guilt  of 
mine  w^ould  be  required  at  my  hands." 


2.  The  Gkeat  Temptations  and  Trials  of  the  Young  Priest 

OF  Glarus. 

Having  made  ourselves  acquainted  with  the  disposition,  studies, 
and  aims  of  the  youthful  priest,  we  shall  now  cast  a  glance  at 
the  field  of  labour  in  which  the  providence  of  God  had  placed 
him,  and  where  great  dangers  threatened  him.  His  parish  em- 
braced nearly  a  third  of  the  canton  of  Glarus.     A  gross  licentious- 


TEMl'TATloN'S  AND  TIIIALS.  1  .'i 

ness  of  mnuiiors,  with  that  tiery,  martial  si)int  and  heroic  cour- 
age wliich  had  well  proved  themselves  in  the  Ikirgiuulian  and 
Snabian  wars,  characterised  his  parishioners,  as  indeed  almost  the 
whole  Swiss  population  of  the  time.  Tlie  sexual  relations  were 
in  such  a  state  of  disorder  that  infringements  of  the  seventh  com- 
mandment ceased  any  longer  to  be  visited  with  ecclesiastical 
censure,  a  circumstance  the  less  to  be  wondered  at  since  the 
clergy  themselves  led  the  way  in  the  almost  universal  depravity 
of  manners.  The  priest,  v,\\o  held  in  respect  the  marriage  vows, 
who  shunned  to  seduce  unsuspecting  innocence,  or  to  violate  the 
chastity  of  the  consecrated  nun,  could  hold  up  his  head  even  as 
a  man  of  honour  and  virtue,  although  stained  with  the  grossest 
sensuality;  for,  verily,  had  he  not  sworn  to  the  bishop,  at  his 
consecration,  to  preserve  his  chastity  only  so  far  as  this  were 
])ossible  to  human  weakness.  "  It  is  a  dangerous  thing,"  says 
Zwingli,  "  for  a  young  priest  to  have  access,  through  the  sanctity 
of  his  office,  to  young  women,  be  they  married  or  virgins.  Let 
straw  be  kept  from  fire,  dive  tlu>  jn-iest  a  wife;  he  woidd  then, 
like  any  other  honest  man,  concern  himself  Avith  the  care  of  his 
houseliiild,  liis  will',  liis  cliild.  aiid  ntlici'  iif't'airs,  whereby  he  would 
be  freed  from  many  trials  and  temptations."  Zwingli  himself, 
as  he  ^^Tites  to  his  friend  Utinger,  with  the  greatest  candour,  had 
formed  the  resolution  to  live  in  this  regaid,  as  well  as  in  every 
other,  a  holy  life  before  God;  but,  alas,  not  finding  one  fellow- 
priest  to  share  his  sentiments  and  his  resolve,  much  less  to  sen-e 
to  him  as  an  example  and  a  beacon,  he  fell  too  before  the  inroad 
of  fleshly  lusts,  as  he  himself,  with  deep  pain  and  remorse,  con- 
fessed, for  he  would  not  appear  l)etter  than  he  really  was.  Yet 
his  fall  neither  violated  the  sanctity  of  the  man-iage  bed,  which 
was  always  sacred  in  his  eyes,  nor  ensnared  virgin  innocence, 
nor  created  any  other  source  of  bitterness,  hy  prayer  and  dili- 
gent study  he  succeeded  in  subduing  this  enemy  too,  after  in 
faith  he  had  laid  hold  on  Him  who  is  mighty  to  save  even  in  the 
weakest. 

Yet  from  another  quarter  the  tempter  neared  him,  and  sought 
to  turn  him  from  the  high  and  holy  walk  he  had  set  In-fore  him. 
Matthaeus  Schinner,  from  AVallis,  a  man  of  extmordinary  powers, 
who  had  raised  him.self  from  the  cnndili(tn  (»f  herd-boy  to  be 
Bi.sho])-prince  of  the  land,  and  a  Cardinal  of  the  Komish  Church, 


1-i  TEMPTATIONS  AND  TRIALS. 

acted  then  a  part  in  Switzerland,  as  Papal  emissary,  most  im- 
portant indeed ;  but,  at  tlie  same  time,  most  pernicious.  He  had 
succeeded,  by  his  arts,  in  attaching  the  Swiss  to  the  interests  of 
the  papacy,  so  that  these  hardy  mountaineers,  for  absolution, 
some  deceitful  promises,  and  but  a  scanty  pay,  lent  themselves 
as  tools  to  forward  the  ambitious  plans  of  the  Popes,  Julius  II. 
and  Leo  X.  There  was  scarcely  a  man  of  weight  in  the  country, 
whom  the  legate  had  not  gained  over  to  the  papacy,  by  the  glit- 
tering bait  of  some  post  of  honour,  or  stipendiary  payment.  The 
noble  form  of  the  zealous  and  talented  parson  of  Glarus,  standing 
high  in  the  esteem  of  his  parishioners,  caught  the  eye  of  the 
cunning  legate.  Zwingli,  on  account  of  his  poverty,  had  not 
been  able  to  purchase  books  sufficient  to  quench  his  keen  thirst 
of  knowledge.  Schinner  informed  him  the  Pope  had  set  apart 
an  annual  sum  of  fifty  florins,  in  order  that  he  might  freely  pur- 
sue his  studies.  In  return,  Zwingli's  talents  and  energies  were 
to  be  devoted  to  the  Pope.  Had  he  accepted  this  condition,  the 
herd-boy  of  Toggenburg  might  well  have  climbed  the  ladder  of 
papal  promotion  as  high  as  the  herd-ljoy  of  Wallis,  the  Bishop- 
prince  and  Cardinal,  had  done ;  and  might,  indeed,  one  day  have 
boldly  stretched  out  his  hand  to  seize  the  triple  crown.  Let  us 
hear  from  Zwingli  in  what  spirit  he  received  the  Pope's  liber- 
ality : — "  I  confess  here,  before  God  and  all  the  world,  my  sin,  (in 
drawing  the  above  annual  sum,  which  he  did  accept,  and  con- 
tinued for  some  time  to  draw,)  for  before  the  year  1516  I  hung 
mightily  on  the  Eonian  power,  and  thought  it  highly  becoming 
in  me  to  take  money  from  it,  although  I  told  the  Romish  ambas- 
sadors, in  clear  and  express  terms,  when  they  exhorted  me  to 
preach  nothing  against  the  Pope,  they  were  not  to  fancy  that  I, 
for  their  money,  should  withhold  one  iota  of  the  truth,  so  they 
might  take  back,  or  give  it,  as  they  pleased."  The  Popes,  how- 
ever, and  their  Cardinals,  had  more  at  heart  the  supremacy  of 
their  policy  than  the  victory  of  the  truth,  and  they  left  Zwingli 
for  the  present  in  the  undisturbed  receipt  of  the  above  sum. 

In  the  early  part  of  1513,  a  body  of  20,000  men  was  raised 
by  Schinner,  in  Switzerland,  and  led  across  the  Alps,  to  drive 
the  French  out  of  Lombardy,  of  which  they  had  taken  possession 
under  Louis  XII.  As  the  banner  of  Glarus  was  unfurled  in  this 
expedition,  Zwingli  was  appointed,  by  an  order  of  the  magis- 


TEMPTATIONS  AND  TRIALS.  15 

traev,  and  in  conlbrniity  with  the  old  Swiss  custom,  to  Ibllow  tlio 
army  as  field-pro^achor.  At  one  sweep  Lomhardy  was  cleared  of 
the  invaders,  and  the  Duke  J\raximilian  Sforza  reinstated  in  his 
hereditary  dominions,  the  duchy  of  Milan.  After  the  fortunate 
issue  of  this  campaign,  a  papal  embassy  presented,  by  the  hand 
of  Zwingli,  the  proud  victors  in  the  war  with  a  richly  gilt  sword 
and  a  ducal  hat,  emblazoned  M'ith  pearls  and  gold,  over  which  the 
Holy  Spirit  hovered,  in  the  form  of  a  dove.  At  the  same  time, 
the  honorary  title  was  bestowed  u])ou  them  of  "  Deliverers  of  the 
Church."  The  present  was  right  welcome  to  the  victorious  Con- 
federates, as  well  as  the  words  which  accompanied  it — "they 
may  ask  what  they  will,  the  holiest  shall  not  be  denied  them." 
The  greater  part  begged  they  might  be  permitted  to  carry  the 
image  of  the  cnicified  Eedeemer  on  their  banners:  the  men  of 
Clams  desired  to  carry  that  of  the  risen  Saviour. 

A  second  time  Zwingli  accompanied  the  Swiss  army  across 
the  Alps.  Francis,  who  followed  Louis  XII.  on  the  throne  of 
France,  made  a  strong  effort  in  1515  to  recover  the  lost  province 
of  Upper  Italy  to  the  French  arms.  As  "  deienders  and  deliv- 
erers of  the  Church,"  the  Swiss  marched  against  liini  at  the  sum- 
mons of  the  Pope,  and  Zwingli  appeared  among  his  compatriots 
again  as  field-preacher.  But  on  this  occasion  it  became  the 
policy  of  the  King  of  France  to  cast  the  seeds  of  disunion  in  the 
Swiss  ranks,  by  bribing  some  of  the  leaders.  He  succeeded  in 
dividing  the  Swiss  host,  and  in  inducing  a  part  of  it,  by  a  treaty 
stnick  between  them  and  the  king  at  Calera,  the  temis  of  which 
were  in  the  highest  degree  disgraceful  to  the  Swiss,  to  return 
home.  Zwingli,  who  penetrated  the  false  game  that  was  playing, 
and  perceived  the  mischief  that  brooded  over  his  country,  raised 
his  voice  loudly  against  the  treaty,  in  a  sermon  which  lie  preached 
to  the  army,  in  the  square  at  Monza,  on  the  7th  of  September. 
He  exhorted  the  assembletl  warriors  to  be  true  to  each  other — to 
union  and  watchfidness  in  the  presence  of  their  dangerous  foe. 
"  Had  they  followed  him,"  says  his  friend  Steiner,  who  shared 
the  dangers  of  the  campaign  with  him,  "  nuudi  mischief  would 
have  been  prevented"  But  the  warning  voice  of  Zwingli  was 
forgotten,  and  the  treaty  was  signed,  according  to  the  tenns  of 
which,  a  part  of  the  Swiss  withdrew.  A  i^hort  time  aftenvard.s, 
the  Swiss,  wlio  were  mucli  weakened  by  the  loss  of  part  of  their 


]  ()  TEMPTATIONS  AND  TRIALS. 

force,  incited  by  the  fiery  Cardinal  .Scliinner,  imprudently  joined 
in  a  skirmish  with  the  French.  In  this  skirmish  tlie  battk'  of 
Marignano  took  its  origin,  in  wliich  the  Swiss  on  the  first  day 
maintained  the  field  with  a  tremendous  loss ;  but  on  the  second 
day,  being  attacked  by  the  French  with  fresh  forces,  they  were 
beaten  after  a  desperate  stand,  and  forced  to  retire  on  Milan. 
Zwingli,  according  to  the  reports  of  eye-witnesses,  displayed 
during  the  engagement  striking  proofs  of  personal  courage,  both 
by  word  and  deed.  His  intrepid  but  serious  behaviour,  as  well 
as  his  sermons,  breathing  at  once  zeal  in  behalf  of  the  truth,  and 
love  for  his  native  country,  won  for  him  the  hearts  of  all  the 
better  Confederates.  But  while  in  the  camp  the  preacher  was 
fighting  for  the  degenerate  Church  of  Eome,  a  struggle  was  going 
forward  in  his  own  bosom  which  brought  salvation  both  to  Zwin- 
gli himself,  and  to  Christ's  blood-bought  invisilile  Church. 

Zwingli  continued  with  increased  zeal  to  study  the  Word  of 
God,  and  with  redoubled  ardour  after  1513,  in  which  year  he 
had  acquired  the  knowledge  of  Greek.  He  acquired  this  lan- 
"uaoe  in  a  short  time,  without  the  aid  of  a  master.  So  well, 
indeed,  had  he  mastered  its  difficulties,  that  he  could  read  not 
only  the  New  Testament,  but  any  of  the  Greek  authors,  with 
facility.  He  read  the  Fathers,  and  other  interpreters  of  the  Word 
of  God,  in  order  to  penetrate  the  deeper  into  its  sense.  "  I  read  the 
Doctors,"  he  says  himself,  "as  one  asks  a  friend  what  he  means." 
Perceiving,  however,  that  the  Holy  Spirit  alone  can  give  the  true 
meaning  of  the  word  which  he  himself  has  indited,  he  looked  up  to 
heaven,  as  Myconius  tells  us,  for  direction,  and  sought  the  aids  of 
the  Spirit ;  and  as  he  wrestled  with  God  in  prayer,  that  He  would 
bestow  upon  him  the  inestimable  blessing  of  His  Holy  Spirit, 
it  was  granted  to  him  ever  more  and  more,  to  pierce  into  the 
sense  of  the  W^ord.  That  he  might  not,  under  the  semblance  of 
the  Spirit,  take  up  what  was  false,  he  compared  one  passage  with 
another,  and  interpreted  the  darker  by  the  plainer,  so  that  it  was 
apparent  to  every  one  who  heard  him  commenting  on  a  difficult 
passage,  that  not  man,  but  the  Spirit  himself  was  his  teacher. 
One  circumstance  in  itself  shews  with  what  earnest  zeal  he 
studied  the  Word  of  God,  especially  as  contained  in  the  New 
Testament.  He  copied,  with  his  own  hand,  in  Greek  character, 
all  the  E]iistles  of  Paul,  for  the  sole  reason  that  he  might  carry 


TEMPTATIONS  AND  TlvIAl.S.  17 

them  aljout  with  him  iu  a  poitabUi  .shape,  and  learn  iheni  liy 
lieurt.  Thus  he  became,  as  Bulliiiger  writes,  perfectly  conversant 
with  Holy  Scripture.  The  more,  however,  that  he  sunk  his  shaft 
into  this  mine,  the  more  his  eyes  opened  upon  the  corruptions 
which  prevailed  in  the  Church,  and  which  disfigured  his  native 
countiy.  Tlie  great  anibiti(jn  of  the  Church  of  Home  has  been 
to  pass  oft'  her  splendid  ritual,  and  her  whole  ceremonial  worshi]), 
as  a  system  of  worsliip  divinely  revealed,  which  nnist  remain  for 
ever  unchangeable.  Zwingli  discoven-d  liistdiieal  indications 
which  spoke  a  different  language  from  this.  One  day  he  hap- 
pened to  be  in  the  parsonage  at  Mollis,  in  the  ctmipany  of  his 
friend,  parson  Adam ;  the  parson  of  AVesen,  his  f(jrmer  teacher  at 
Basle,  George  Binzli,  and  parson  Barschon,  of  Kerenzen,  were 
there.  Zwingli  happened  to  light  on  an  old  Liturgy,  in  which 
stood  the  woids:  " Li't  the  .sacrament  of  the  Eucharist,  and  the 
cup,  with  the  blood  of  the  Lord,  be  given  to  the  cliiM  at'ler  bap- 
tism." "At  this  time,"  observed  Zwingli,  "the  saeiament  had 
been  given  in  both  kinds:"  the  liturgy  was  about  200  years  old. 
In  his  Italian  campaigns  he  had  discovered  at  Milan  a  mass-l)o<)k 
which  differed  from  the  lioman.  This  incident  led  our  young 
inquirer  to  the  following  train  of  reflection.  Either,  thought  he, 
Bishop  Ambrosias,  from  whom  the  mass-book  emanated,  has 
made  changes  on  the  existing  one,  without  his  being  visited  with 
censure,  or  the  liomish  ritual  has  taken  its  present  shape  since 
the  time  of  Ambrosius.  In  both  cases,  it  is  evident  that  the 
liturgy  of  the  mass  is  the  work  of  man,  and  subject  to  change. 
"  The  Word  of  God  alone  is  eternal  and  unchangeable,"  thought 
Zwingli.  A  journey  which  he  undertook  to  Basle,  in  lol-t,  had 
likewise  a  considcraljle  influence  on  the  intellectual  and  spiritual 
development  of  the  future  liefonner.  Here  he  found  a  circle  of 
learned  and  enlightened  men  assembled  round  Glarean,  the  friend 
of  his  youth,  and  around  Erasmus,  animated  with  the  same 
endeavours,  and  breathing  the  same  aspirations  after  truth  aa 
himself.  Tliese  were  struck  with  admiration  at  the  I'ipeness  of 
undei-standing,  and  boldness  of  thought,  which  marked  the  curate 
of  Glarus,  and  entertained  sanguine  hopes  that  he  would  one  day 
become  a  chosen  instrument  in  the  hand  of  G«m1  for  effecting 
some  great  work.  Zwingli  derived  certainty  to  his  views,  and 
firmness  to  his  convictions,  from  an  interchange  of  i<lea8  with 

B 


18  TEMPTATIONS  AND  TRIALS. 

these  distinguished  individuals,  to  whom  also  his  heart  was  knit 
in  the  bonds  of  a  strong  friendship.  Among  the  friends  whom 
Zwingli  gained  on  this  occasion,  and  who  remained  true  to  him 
till  death,  were  Beatus  Ehenanus,  of  Schlettstadt,  Nesen  of  Hes- 
sen,  and  Oswald  Gaisshausler  (Myconius),  of  Lucerne,  whose 
fortunes  soon  after  became  united  with  his  own.  A  poem  of 
Erasmus,  a  man  for  whom  Zwingli,  ever  after  this  meeting,  ex- 
pressed the  highest  esteem  and  love,  made  a  remarkable  impres- 
sion u.pon  him.  "  I  shall,"  thus  writes  Zwingli  in  reference  to  it, 
in  1523,  "not  withhold  from  you,  dear  brethren  in  Christ,  how 
it  was  I  arrived  at  the  conviction  and  firm  faith,  that  we  require 
no  other  mediator  but  Christ,  and  that  none  but  Christ  alone 
can  mediate  between  God  and  man.  I  read,  eight  or  nine  years 
ago,  a  very  comfortable  poem  of  Erasmus,  in  which  Jesus  com- 
plains, in  very  beautiful  words,  that  one  does  not  seek  all  good 
from  Him,  who  is  the  source  of  all  good,  the  Saviour,  the  Com- 
forter, the  Guardian  of  the  soul.  Thereon  I  reflected,  why  do  we 
seek  help  of  the  creature?"  The  more  his  heart  was  penetrated 
with  truth  from  the  throne  of  the  Eternal,  the  more  earnest  and 
impassioned  became  his  sermons.  "He  began  now,"  writes  My- 
conius, "  after  the  example  of  Christ,  to  denounce  from  the  pulpit 
certain  base  vices,  which  were  then  extremely  prevalent,  espe- 
cially the  taking  of  gifts  from  princes,  and  baleful  mercenary 
wars ;  for  he  saw  clearly  that  the  doctrine  of  divine  truth  would 
never  find  an  entrance  until  these  sources  of  iniquity  were  closed. 
He  proclaimed  evangelical  truth,  without  making  any  allusion  to 
Eomish  errors,  or  with  a  very  slight  reference  to  them.  He 
wished  truth  first  to  make  its  way  to  the  hearts  of  his  hearers, 
for,  thought  he,  if  the  true  be  once  comprehended,  the  false  will 
be  easily  detected  as  such."  Notwithstanding  this  wise  modera- 
tion, he  did  not  escape  the  charge  of  heresy;  to  which,  indeed, 
he  laid  himseK  in  some  measure  open,  by  publicly  expressing 
his  approval  of  several  of  the  tenets  of  Picus  of  Mirandola,  who 
desired  a  disputation  upon  them  at  Eome,  and  this  Zwingli  fear- 
lessly did,  although  they  had  already  met  with  a  condemnation 
there.  Many  joined  in  this  cry  of  heresy  against  the  preacher  of 
Glarus,  who  otherwise  troubled  their  heads  very  little  upon  the 
subject  of  religion.  These  were  such  as  had  been  bribed  by  the 
King  of  France  to  co-operate  in  bringing  about  an  alliance  be- 


SPIRITUAL  DEVELOPMENT.  I!» 

tweeii  Switzerland  and  France,  according  to  the  terms  of  wliicli 
the  Swiss  yonth  were  to  enter  the  Frencli  service.  Tliis  was  a 
new  and  most  prolific  source  of  corruption,  against  which  Zwingli 
likewise  thundered  with  all  the  force  of  his  eloquence.  But  the 
animosity  entertained  by  his  enemies,  and  the  calumnies  which 
they  vented  against  him,  made  him  now  sigh  fin*  another  field 
on  which  to  developc  his  activity.  The  then  administrator  of  the 
cloister  of  Einsiedeln  heard  of  the  state  of  things  at  Glarus,  and 
forthwith  gave  Z\\ingli  a  call  to  ho  his  helper.  Zwingli  accept('<l 
this  call  for  the  two  reasons,  that  the  new  charge  would  give  him 
more  time  for  study,  and  because  he  hoped  that  at  this  famous 
sanctuary,  to  which  crowds  of  ])ilgrims  repaired,  from  all  parts  of 
Switzerland  and  the  neighbouring  countries,  he  M'ould  be  placed 
on  a  vantage-ground  for  proclaiming  the  words  of  life  and  of 
evangelical  truth. 

Deep  mourning  filled  the  hearts  of  the  larger  and  better  por- 
tion of  the  community  of  Glarus,  when  the  resolution  of  Zwangli 
to  abandon  them  was  made  known.  In  the  hope  that  he  might 
return  to  them,  they  appointed  a  vicar  in  his  place,  while  they 
compelled  Zwingli  to  retain  both  the  title  and  the  income  of  the 
charge.  In  the  summer  of  1516,  Zwingli  left  Glanis,  and  came 
to  Einsiedeln,  where  a  new  and  a  more  extended  sphere  of  use- 
fulness opened  upon  him.  Before  we  follow  him  thither,  let  us 
cast  a  glance  at  his  spiritual  development  at  this  period  of  his 
histoiy,  as  it  is  described  by  himself. 


3.  Glance  at  Zwingli's  Spiritual  Development  aboitt  the 
YEAR  1516.* 

He  says,  "  Tlie  following  considerations  I  continually  revolved 
in  my  mind,  till  at  length  the  Holy  Spirit  confirmed  in  me  that 
which  He  MTOught  in  me: — 

"  We  see,  thought  I,  the  whole  of  mankind  striving,  their  lives 
long,  after  the  attainment  of  futuiv  bliss,  not  perhaps  directed  to 
this  pursuit  so  much  from  any  natural  impulse  as  from  the  in- 
stinct of  self-preservation  implanted  in  us  liy  the  Author  of  fan- 
being  at  our  creation;  yet  the  opinions  are  veiy  various  as  to 
*  From  the  Archeteles,  i.e.,  the  bcginninp  and  end  of  the  struggle. 


20  SPIKITUAL  DEVELOPMENT. 

how  this  great  end  is  to  be  obtained.  If  we  go  to  the  philoso- 
phers, we  find  them  disputing  on  this  subject  in  a  manner  which 
makes  us  turn  away  from  them  with  a  feeling  of  disgust.  If  we 
seek  for  a  solution  of  the  problem  from  the  Christians,  we  find 
here  even  a  greater  diversity  of  opinions  than  prevails  among  the 
heathen,  for  some  are  striving  to  reach  the  goal  in  the  way  of 
human  tradition,  and  by  the  elements  of  this  world  (Col.  ii.  8), 
i.e.,  by  their  own  and  human  opinions,  while  others  are  relying 
entirely  on  God's  grace  and  promises;  both  the  one  and  the 
other,  however,  are  equally  urgent  that  those  who  come  to  them 
for  consolation  should  adopt  their  sentiments.  Let  us  stand  at 
this  point  now,  where  two  roads  cross,  that  is,  where  the  opinions 
of  Christians  themselves  cross.  AVliither  now,  I  ask,  shall  I  turn? 
Is  the  answer  given,  to  men?  Then  I  ask,  to  whom?  To  those 
who,  at  the  origin  of  Christianity,  were  held  wise,  or  to  those 
who,  shortly  before  my  own  time,  have  given  a  much  greater 
exhibition  of  folly  than  wisdom?  It  will  be  said  that  I  ought  to 
follow  the  old  guides,  those  who  deserve  the  preference  as  such, 
as  well  by  their  antiquity  as  by  their  holy  lives.  But  it  may  be 
said  farther,  even  in  these  one  finds  much  that  is  foreign  to  the 
evangelists  and  apostles,  or  that  in  fact  contradicts  them.  AVith 
whom  am  I  now  to  hold?  Every  one  who  is  not  altogether 
brutish  or  a  fool  will  answer.  With  them  whom  the  Spirit  of  God 
has  enlightened;  for  whatever  comes  of  human  wisdom,  be  it 
decked  out  in  ever  so  brilliant  colours,  may  deceive ;  but  divine 
wisdom  can  never  deceive.  Here  is  the  true  faith  which  man 
needs.  Wliere  it  fails,  man  withers,  falls,  dies.  While  I  was 
reflecting  on  this  diversity  of  opinion  in  the  earthen  vessels,  and 
praying  to  God  that  He  would  shew  me  an  outlet  to  the  state  of 
uncertainty  it  produces.  He  says,  Fool,  dost  not  thou  remember 
'  the  word  of  the  Lord  abideth  for  ever?'  hold  to  this.  And  again, 
'  heaven  and  earth  shall  pass  away,  but  my  word  shall  not  pass 
away.'  What  is  human,  perishes;  what  is  divine,  is  unchange- 
able. And,  '  in  vain  they  honour  me,  teaching  for  doctrines  the 
commandments  of  men.'  As  if  God  should  square  His  truth 
according  to  our  notions,  and  as  if  what  at  the  first  glance  appears 
to  us  beautiful,  noble,  nay,  even  holy,  should  please  Him  too, 
and  as  if  it  were  not  nmch  more  our  duty  to  hang  on  Him  with 
our  whole   hearts,  and  not  to  cleave   to   our  own   opinions  or 


SPIRITUAL  DEVELOPMENT.  21 

notions.  Furthi.s  cau.se  I  put  every  thing  aside,  and  raiue  to  the 
point,  that  I  woukl  rely  on  no  single  thing,  on  no  single  word,  so 
firmly  as  on  that  Avliich  comes  from  tlie  mouth  of  tlie  Lord.  And 
as  I  saw  poor  mortals  so  far  forgetting  themselves  and  (lod  as  to 
make  bold  to  give  out  their  o^vn  as  God's,  nay,  A\hen  1  saw  not 
a  few  requiring,  in  all  seriousness,  from  the  simple,  tliat  they 
should  set  their  connnands  ahove  God's,  even  although  they 
should  be  in  manifest  contradiction  to  them,  I  began  to  weigh 
with  myself,  whether  there  were  no  means  by  which  one  might 
recognise  what  was  human  and  what  di^•ine.  Then  the  passage 
occurred  to  me,  '  all  is  clear  in  the  light,'  in  tliat  light,  to  wit, 
which  says,  '  I  am  the  light  of  the  world,  that  lightens  every  man 
that  Cometh  into  the  world;'  and  again,  'believe  not  every  spirit, 
but  try  the  spirits,  whetlier  they  be  of  God.'  Seeking  for  the 
touchstone  of  truth,  I  find  none  other  but  '  that  stone  which  is  a 
stone  of  stumbling  and  the  rock  of  offence '  to  all  who,  after  the 
mamier  of  the  Pliarisees,  set  their  own  commandments  in  the 
place  of  God's.  I  now  began  to  test  every  doctrine  by  this  test. 
Did  I  see  that  the  touchstone  gave  back  the  same  colour,  or 
rather,  that  the  doctrine  coidd  bear  the  brightness  of  the  stone, 
I  accepted  it;  if  not,  I  cast  it  away.  At  length  I  brought  it  so 
far,  that  at  the  first  touch  of  the  stone  I  could  tell  what  was  false 
and  adulterate,  and  from  this  time  forward,  no  power,  no  tlireat- 
enings,  could  bring  me  to  place  the  like  faith  in  the  human,  how- 
ever it  might  puff  itself  up,  or  however  admu-able  it  might  shew 
itself,  as  in  the  divine.  Nay,  if  on  any  occasion  an  opinion  dif- 
ferent from,  or  contraiy  to,  the  Divine  Word,  were  arbitrarily 
pressed  upon  me,  I  answered  with  the  words  of  the  apostle,  '  We 
must  obey  God  rather  than  man.'  Thus  those  who  valued  highly 
their  own  opinions,  but  valued  at  a  low  rate,  or  not  at  all,  the 
cause  of  Christ,  held  me  in  gi'eat  suspicion,  and  fonned  a  very 
low  opinion  of  me.  Tliis,  however,  is  the  surest  criterion  that  I 
plea.se  God,  and  their  disesteem  is  wholesome  to  me,  for  tlie 
name  of  the  Lord  is  never  more  glorified  than  when  our  name  i» 
evil  spoken  of  by  men;  and  if  the  body  perish,  we  have  this  con- 
solation, that  He  endues  the  soul  with  life  everlasting." 


AT   EINSIEDELN. 


4.    ZWINGLI   AT   EmSDEDELN. 


Thus  we  have  seen  Zwingli  after  a  hard  contest  with  the 
temptations  of  the  flesh,  and  after  a  hard  but  prayerful  striving 
after  truth,  at  length  attain  to  the  rock-fast  conviction,  "that  the 
Word  of  God  is  the  alone  sure  directory  for  faith  and  practice," 
and  Christ  is  our  only  salvation.  With  this  conviction,  from 
Avhich  the  blessed  work  of  the  Eeformation  itseK  has  sprung, 
firmly  implanted  in  his  bosom,  he  went,  in  the  summer  of  1516, 
to  Einsiedeln,  where  he  commenced  his  career  as  a  Eeformer. 
The  new  society^  into  w^hich  he  was  here  introduced  was,  on  the 
one  hand,  well  fitted  to  confirm  his  already  obtained  convictions, 
and,  on  the  other  hand,  to  urge  him  to  an  acti^dty  proportioned 
to  their  depth  and  intensity.  The  then  Abbot  of  the  Cloister 
was  Conrad  of  Eechberg,  a  pious,  excellent,  upright  man,  under 
whose  monk's  cloak  beat  as  warm  and  generous  a  heart  as  ever 
throbbed  imder  a  coat  of  mail.  In  his  youth  he  had  been  forced 
to  join  the  monks,  by  selfish  relatives,  who  paid  him  \dsits, 
now  that  he  had  risen  to  be  Abbot-Prince  of  Einsiedeln.  They 
did  this  with  the  "vdew  of  obtaining  from  his  position  advan- 
tages to  themselves.  But  the  Abbot  Com-ad  saw  through 
their  selfishness,  and  thus  addressed  them  on  one  occasion  : — 
"You  have  stuck  a  cowl  upon  my  head  to  my  soul's  risk  and 
peril,  and  I  must  be  monk,  while  you  ride  about  as  country 
squu'es.  Could  not  I  have  been  Conr}^  of  Eechberg  as  well  as 
one  of  you  Jack  or  George  of  Eechberg,  what's  the  difference, 
pray?  But,  my  good  people,  since  you  have  made  a  poor  monk 
of  me,  don't  come  here  begging  an}i:hing,  but  just  return  the  road 
by  which  you  came."  Once,  when  the  visitators  of  his  order  waited 
upon  him,  and  reproached  him  for  not  reading  mass,  and,  gene- 
rally, that  he  stood  in  the  suspicion  of  making  no  great  account 
i)f  the  mass,  he  answered, — "  Although  I  am  master  here  in  my 
own  convent,  and  could  send  you  away  with  a  very  short  answer, 
I  shall,  nevertheless,  tell  you  plainly  what  I  hold  of  the  mass. 
If  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  be  really  in  the  host,  I  know  not  how 
very  highly  you  esteem  yourselves  ;  one  thing  I  know,  that  I, 
a  poor  monk,  am  not  worthy  to  look  upon  Him,  not  to  speak  of 
offering  Him  up  in  sacrifice  to  the  eternal  God.    If,  however,  He 


AT   EINSIEDELN.  23 

lie  not  present  there,  woe's  nie  if  I  hold  up  bread  to  the  people 
before  the  Lord  our  God,  and  call  upon  them  to  worship  bread. 
Therefore,  let  me  alone.  I  shall,  if  God  will,  so  act  and  so  pre- 
side over  my  God's  house  that  I  may  be  able  to  answer  to  myself 
before  Him  and  the  world.  As  I  have  no  need  of  you,  please  to 
return  the  way  you  came :  you  are  dismissed."  WHien  the 
learned  men  at  his  board  would  sometimes  go  into  the  depths  of 
theoloj^ical  discussion,  he  would  break  in  upon  their  discussions, 
M'ith  the  exclamation,  "  AVhat  care  I  for  your  disputations  ?  1  say 
now,  and  I  shall  say  at  my  latter  end,  like  David,  '  Have  mercy 
upon  me,  0  Lord,  according  to  thy  goodness,  and  enter  not  into 
judgment  with  thy  servant.'  I  recpiire  to  know  nothing  more 
than  this."  In  his  old  age,  he  had  retii"ed  entirely  from  the  admin- 
istration of  the  cloister,  and  committed  it  to  Dr.  Theobald  of 
Geroldseck,  a  Suabian.  This  man,  according  to  the  statement  of 
Myconius,  was  equally  the  friend  of  learning  and  piety,  and  made 
use  of  his  position  to  gather  round  him  a  circle  of  learned  and  pious 
men,  as  chaplains,  assistant  pastors,  and  teachers,  to  whom  leisure 
and  means  for  pursuing  their  scientific  studies  were  liberally 
granted.  Zwingli  was  joyfully  hailed  by  this  select  company ;  and 
it  was  not  long  before  Theobald  of  Geroldseck,  Francis  Ziuk,  and 
John  Oechslin,  became  his  firm  friends,  and  were  gained  over  by 
him  to  evangelical  convictions.  Zwingli  liimself,  meantime, pierced 
deeper  and  deeper  into  the  knowledge  of  the  AVord  of  God,  and 
experienced  in  his  own  heart  how  precious  and  dear  that  saying 
is,  "  that  Jesus  Christ  has  come  into  the  world  to  save  sinners,"  and 
thus  he  grew,  day  by  day,  in  Christian  knowledge,  and  in  faith. 
To  his  friends  he  gave  the  advice,  they  should  study  the  Fathers 
for  the  better  understanding  of  holy  Scripture,  as  he  had  done 
himself ;  yet  he  added,  "  with  God's  grace,  the  day  will  soon  come, 
that  neither  Jerome,  nor  any  other,  will  be  an  authority  in  mat- 
ters of  faith,"  but  holy  Scripture  alone.  Soon  the  fruit  appeared 
of  the  evangelic  spirit  which  Zwingli  had  fanned  at  Einsiedeln. 
The  administrator  of  Geroldseck  announced  to  the  cloister  of 
Fahr,  which  stood  under  Einsiedeln,  that,  instead  of  daily  drawl- 
ing over  the  Latin  mass-songs  in  their  usual  heedless  manner, 
they  were  to  read  the  New  Testament  in  the  German  tongue  ; 
at  the  same  time,  that  those  who  felt  them.sclves  bindened  liy  the 
vows,  had  the  liberty  to  return  home  to  their  relatives.     The 


24  AT   EINSIEDELN. 

others  were  to  lead,  true  to  their  vows,  a  virtuous  and  holy 
life. 

But  it  was  chiefly  as  a  preacher  that  Zwingli  showed  himself 
the  Eeformer  at  Einsiedeln.  He  prepared  himself  with  care  for 
the  pulpit.  He  studied,  first  of  all,  in  the  original  language,  the 
section  which  ecclesiastical  order  prescribed  to  he  read  in  Latin. 
He  then  commented  upon  the  passage  according  to  its  sense,  and 
made  the  practical  application  of  it  without  sufiering  himself  to 
be  fettered  in  the  least  degree  either  by  the  dogmas  or  the  preju- 
dices of  the  Church.  But  with  what  holy  indignation  was  the 
soul  of  the  zealous  preacher  moved,  in  whom,  from  youth  up,  the 
fear  of  God  had  burned  like  a  live  coal  from  off  God's  holy  altar, 
when  he  saw  the  new  species  of  idolatiy  which  was  carried  on 
under  his  very  eyes. 

Einsiedeln  is  the  most  frequented  resort  for  pilgrims  for  the 
whole  of  southern  Germany,  Switzerland,  and  the  eastern  part  of 
France.  The  cloister  was  built  in  the  tenth  century,  to  the 
honour  of  the  Virgin,  upon  the  site  where,  a  century  earlier, 
Meinrad  of  Hohenzollern  is  said  to  have  inhabited  an  Einsiedler 
hut,  where  he  is  said  to  have  died  by  a  murderer's  hand.  At  the 
midnight,  so  tradition  says,  immediatel}^  preceding  the  consecra- 
tion of  the  newly  erected  church,  the  bishop  of  Constance  was 
praying  in  it ;  suddenly,  a  heavenly  hymn,  sung  by  invisible 
spirits,  resounded  in  the  chapel.  All  kneeled  and  listened 
entranced.  The  next  day,  when  the  bishop  was  about  to  complete 
the  consecration,  three  times  a  voice  was  heard  proclaiming, 
"  Hold,  hold,  brother,  it  is  consecrated  by  God."  Christ  himself, 
so  the  legend  runs,  consecrated  the  Church  during  the  night; 
angels,  apostles,  and  saints  sung  the  strains  that  were  heard; 
while  the  Holy  Virgin  passed  rapidly  by  the  altar,  like  a  flash  of 
lightning.  Leo  VIII.  forbade,  in  a  bull,  all  doubt  in  the  truth 
of  this  legend.  In  memory  of  this  extraordinary  circumstance, 
the  festival  of  the  Angel-Consecration  is  yearly  celeljrated  with 
gi^eat  splendour,  a  festival  to  which  thousands  of  pilgrims  betake 
themselves,  in  the  vain  dream  they  will  here  find  complete  abso- 
lution from  the  guilt  and  punishment  due  to  sin ;  for  the  special 
bulls  of  several  pojDes  have  added  to  the  old  privileges  of  the 
foundation  the  new  one,  that  complete  absolution  is  to  be  given 
to  the  pilgrims.     Llence,  over  the  gateway  of  the  magnificent 


AT  EINSIEDELN.  25 

abbey,  stiiiKls,  in  k'gible  characters,  the  bhis])liemous  iu.scii[>ti()ii, 
"Here  is  complete  absolution  for  tlie  guilt  and  punishment  of 
sin."  This,  and  the  wonders  whicli,  according  to  ])ublic  report, 
the  picture  of  the  Virgin,  liere  carefully  i)resen'ed,  i)erl'ornis, 
which  once  the  holy  Hildegard,  Abbess  of  the  Lady  Minster  iu 
Zurich,  presented  to  the  pious  INIoinrad,  entice  yearly  a  multi- 
tude of  pilgrims  to  Einsieileln,  that  they  may  obtain  the  pardon 
of  their  sins,  and  consolation  and  help  in  every  time  of  need, 
from  the  Holy  Virgin. 

If  this  idle  delusion  served  admirably  towaids  tiic  eiirichin" 
of  the  cloister,  and  hence  was  carefully  cherished  and  fostered 
by  ordinary  preachers,  who  magnitied  the  efficiency  of  the  abso- 
lution to  be  obtained,  and  the  miraculous  power  of  the  adored 
IMary-picture,  yet  Zwingli  had  learned  from  the  "Word  of  God, 
and  the  Lord  and  blaster  whom  he  sensed,  to  proclaim  a  more 
consoling  message  from  consecrated  gi'ound,  even  although  ho 
was  to  suffer  for  it.  He  writes,  "  Once  for  all,  the  spirit  itself 
umst  be  so  consecrated  to  God,  that  it  may  hang  inseparably  on 
right,  tnith,  and  God,  even  to  the  loss  of  outward  means,  and  life 
itself — once  for  all  the  die  must  be  cast,  and  death  looked  steadily 
in  the  face,  tVn-  the  truth's  sake,  and  the  sord  nerved  against 
every  attack  of  the  flesh,  the  world,  and  Satan."  He  accordingly 
raised  his  voice  against  the  delusions  here  ])ractised  under  his 
eyes.  His  soul,  indeed,  burned  with  a  holy  indignation  at  the 
dishonour  done  to  the  name  of  God  and  the  Saviour.  He  grieved 
for  a  people  who,  instead  of  finding  forgiveness  for  their  sins, 
entangled  themselves  faster  and  faster  in  the  net  of  Satan. 

"  God,"  the  preacher  cried,  "  is  evei'j^vhere  present,  and  wher- 
ever we  call  upon  Him  in  spirit  and  in  tnith,  He  answers  us  in 
the  words,  '  Here  I  am.'  Those,  then,  who  l)ind  the  grace  of  God 
to  particular  localities,  are  altogether  foolish  and  perverse ;  nay,  it 
is  not  only  foolish  and  perverse  so  to  do,  but  anti-Christian,  for 
they  represent  the  grace  of  God  as  more  easily  to  be  obtained, 
and  cheaper,  in  one  place  than  in  another,  which  is  nothing  but 
to  limit  the  gi'ace  of  God,  and  take  it  captive,  not  letting  it  be 
known  how  free  it  is.  CJod  is  in  every  part  of  the  eai-th  where 
He  is  called  upon,  present  and  ready  to  hear  our  prayers,  and 
to  help  us.  Wlierefore  Paul  .''ays,  '1  will  tlierefore  that  men 
pmy  everj'wlieiv,  likewise  also   th«'  women'  (1   Tim.  ii.  8,  9). 


26  ■■  AT  EINSIEDELN, 

That  is,  we  are  to  know  that  God  is  present  and  hears  us  when 
He  is  called  upon,  and  that  He  is  not  more  gracious  in  one  place 
than  in  another.  Finally,  Christ  calls  such  people  as  bind  God 
to  this  or  that  place  false  Christians,  that  is  Antichrist.  '  For 
there  shall  arise  false  Christs  and  false  prophets,  &c.  &c.  Where- 
fore, if  they  shall  say  unto  you.  Behold,  he  is  in  the  desert,  go 
not  forth ;  behold,  he  is  in  the  secret  chambers,  believe  it  not' 
(Matt.  xxiv.  24-26).  0  God,  who  else  is  a  hypocritical  Christian 
but  the  pope,  who  exalts  himself  in  the  place  of  Christ,  and  says 
he  has  His  power,  so  he  binds  God  to  Eome  and  other  sanctuaries. 
Thus  they  bring  money  in  enormous  quantities  to  enrich  holy 
places,  which,  in  case  of  need,  might  well  be  applied  to  our  tem- 
poral advantage.  And  just  in  such  places  is  more  wantonness 
and  vice  perpetrated  than  any^vhere  else.  He  who  ascribes  to 
man  the  power  to  forgive  sins  blasphemes  God.  And  great  evil 
has  sprung  from  this  source,  so  that  some  whose  eyes  the  popes 
have  blinded,  have  imagined  they  had  their  sins  forgiven  by  sin- 
ful men.  In  this  manner  God  himself  has  been  hid  from  them. 
To  ascribe  to  man  the  power  to  forgive  sins  is  idolatry.  Wliat  is 
idolatry,  but  the  ascription  of  the  divine  honour  to  man,  or  the 
giving  to  the  creature  that  which  is  God's  ? 

"  We  do  not  dishonour,"  he  goes  on  to  say,  "  the  mother  of 
God,  the  Virgin  Mary,  when  we  teach  that  she  ought  not  to  be 
worshipped ;  but  we  dishonour  her,  indeed,  when  we  ascribe  to 
her  the  power  and  the  majesty  of  the  Creator.  She  herself 
would  not  suffer  adoration  to  be  paid  to  her.  For  piety  is,  in  one 
and  all,  of  the  like  kind  and  nature,  for  it  springs  from  one  and 
the  same  Spirit.  Nor  is  it  conceivable  that  any  being  can  be  at 
once  pious,  and  admit  the  reception  of  divine  honour.  So  it  is 
with  Mary,  the  mother  of  God ;  the  more  exalted  she  is  above  all 
creatures,  and  the  more  profound  her  reverence  towards  God,  her 
Son,  the  more  abhorrent  will  it  be  from  her  to  receive  honour  as 
divine.  Nay,  verily,  she  wiU  just  as  little  suffer  that  we  pay  to 
her  the  honour  which  is  her  Son's,  as  Paul  and  Barnabas  at  Lys- 
tra.  For  if,  in  the  heavens,  there  be  the  highest  justice,  then 
certainly  none  of  the  heavenly  host  can  be  filled  with  joy  but 
with  indignation,  when  the  honour  which  is  Christ's  is  ascribed 
to  them.  For  Paul  and  Barnabas,  when  the  people  in  Lystra 
held  them  as  gods,  and  would  do  sacrifice  to  them,  sprang  in  upon 


AT   EINSIEDELN.  27 

theui,  crying  out,  '0  ye  men,  M'hy  do  ye  this?  we  arc  nothing 
but  weak,  mortal  men,  like  yourselves.'  What  think  you  she 
would  say,  if  she  were  witness  this  day  that  men  souf^^lit  fi-om  her 
that  which  it  is  alone  God's  to  give?  Think  you  not  that  the 
holy  Mary  would  say,  '  O  !  senseless,  deluded  men,  all  the  honour 
I  have  comes  from  God  ?  He  has  been  gracious  to  me,  and  made 
me  the  virgin  and  the  mother  among  all  women.  But  I  am  no 
goddess,  nor  any  source  of  blessing  ;  God  alone  is  that  well,  who 
has  ordained  that  all  good  should  come  to  you  through  my  Son. 
By  attributing  to  me  tliat  which  alone  is  God's,  ye  poor  mortals 
attempt  to  change  the  power  and  government  of  God.  For 
verily,  since  the  beginning  of  the  world.  He  has  given  to  no  crea^ 
ture  such  a  power  as  that  any  should  flee  to  it  for  succour  as  if  it 
were  God.  I  am  no  god,  therefore  seek  not  from  me  that  which 
is  God's  alone  to  give.  AVhen  I  was  upon  the  earth  my  Son, 
who  indeed  loved  and  honoured  me,  bestowed  on  me  none  of  His 
miraculous  power.  On  tlie  contrary,  when  I  exhorted  him,  say- 
ing, the  people  have  no  wine,  he  gave  me  a  strange  answer, 
"Woman,"  said  he,  "what  have  I  to  do  Mitli  thee?"  This  was 
done  solely  that  the  miracle  might  not  be  ascribed  to  me  but  to 
him.  Therefore  let  God  abide  in  his  government  and  authority 
as  it  has  been  of  old.  Ye  think  ye  honour  me  by  worshipping 
me.  Ye  do  greatly  dishonour  me.  Worship  is  to  be  paid  to  none 
but  the  One  living  "and  true  God.'"  Such,  and  the  like,  Mary 
would,  without  doubt,  have  said,  and  still  say,  if  she  were  pre- 
sent in  the  midst  of  us.  Therefore,  let  every  one  know  that 
the  highest  honour  we  can  show  to  Mary  is  to  acknowledge  the 
saving  work  of  her  Son,  which  he  has  WTOught  for  us,  poor  sin- 
ners ;  to  honour  this  work  aright,  and  to  apply  to  him  for  all 
grace.  For  God  has  set  him  as  a  propitiation  for  our  sins  by  his 
blood,  if  so  be  we  have  faith  in  him  as  such.  Yes,  he  who  has 
this  faith  and  tnist  in  the  Son  of  Maiy,  honours  ^lary  the  highest, 
for  her  honour  is  her  Son's.  And  should  I  ask  any  one  what 
is  greatest  in  Maiy,  I  know  he  must  give  me  the  answer,  '  that 
she  has  born  to  us  the  Son  of  God,  who  has  redeemed  us.'  If, 
then,  her  greatest  honour  is  her  Son,  it  is  likewise  her  greatest 
honour  that  we  rightly  know  Him,  that  we  love  Him  above  all 
things,  and  that  we  manifest  our  eternal  gi-atitude  to  Him  for  tlu; 
great  act  of  mercy  He  has  done  for  u.s,  by  redeeming  us.     For 


28  AT   EINSIEDELN. 

the  higher  the  honour  and  love  of  Christ  rises  among  men,  the 
more  the  esteem  and  honour  of  Mary  rises,  in  so  far  that  she  has 
born  to  us  so  great  and  glorious  a  Eedeemer.  But  if  ye  will 
especially  honour  the  Virgin  Mary,  then  follow  her  purity,  her 
innocence,  her  steadfast  faith.  And  when  ye  have  prayed  an  Ave 
Maria,  and  pondered  above  all  on  the  great  work  of  our  redemp- 
tion, then  reflect  that  she,  who  was  endowed  with  so  great  grace 
and  honour  from  God,  was  nevertheless  poor,  and  subject  to 
persecutions,  pain,  and  misery  ;  yet  that  in  all  these  things  she 
triumphed.  And  then  comfort  yourselves  in  your  poverty,  and 
low  estate,  and  wretchedness,  which  you  have  in  common  with  her, 
with  the  thought  that  such  misery  must  certainly  be  the  destiny 
of  man,  since  even  the  holy  mother  of  God  was  not  exempt  from 
it.  But  if  ye  be  rich  and  happy,  then  you  will  humble  yourselves 
when  you  look  at  her  ;  you  will  be  fearful,  though  joyful,  be  it 
your  lot  to  give  away  or  to  suffer  the  loss  of  your  wealth.  For 
you  must  often  reflect,  has  then  the  mother  of  God  suffered  these 
things  ;  then  who  am  I  to  raise  myself  above  her  ?  And  by  her 
faith  all,  both  rich  and  poor,  may  have  their  own  ftiith  comforted, 
considering,  Has  the  heart  of  the  Virgin  had  such  faith  that  no 
wretchedness,  poverty,  or  rejection  of  her  Son,  which  she  daily 
witnessed,  were  able  to  turn  her  from  him,  so  as  to  make  her 
even  once  doubt  in  him  ?  Oh  !  then  may  I  call  faithfully  on  the 
Lord  that  he  would  be  pleased  never  to  abandon  me,  but  to  in- 
crease my  faith,  so  that  I  may  never  abandon  him,  but  cleave  to 
him  even  though  the  whole  world  should  be  against  him." 

Such  was  the  burden  of  Zwingli's  preaching  at  the  festival  of 
the  Angel-Consecration,  1517,  and  at  Pentecost,  1518,  before 
great  crowds  of  pilgrims.  Great  was  the  impression  which  it 
made  upon  the  pilgrims.  Some  fled  in  terror  from  the  scene, 
others  hovered  between  the  faith  they  had  received  from  their 
fathers,  and  the  doctrine  they  had  now  first  heard,  and  which  was 
to  bring  a  new  peace  to  their  souls,  others  turned  to  Christ  with 
their  whole  hearts,  retaining  the  gifts  they  had  brought  to  the 
Virgin.  On  the  way  back  to  their  several  lands  and  homes  they 
proclaimed  what  they  had  heard  at  Einsiedeln — the  grace  of  God 
everywhere  alike  'present ;  Christ,  and  not  Mary,  the  only  salva- 
tion. Pilgrims  as  they  heard  this  announcement  on  the  way 
turned  back  without  bringing  their  pilgrimag(>  to  a  close.     The 


AT    EINSIEDELN.  29 

tame  of  Zwingli,  the  bold  and  uii(join})roiiii.sing  advoi-ate  uf  tlie 
truth,  resounded  through  the  towns  and  vilhigcs  of  Switzerland, 
Suabia,  and  Alsace,  and  prepared  the  hearts  of  many  in  these 
hinds  for  the  salvation-work  to  which  the  Lord  his  God  liad  called 
him.  In  tlu>  nuiltitude  wlu^  heard  the  sermon  delivered  by 
Zwingli,  in  l*entecost  1518,  on  Luke  v.  24',  there  was  present, 
Dr.  Medio,  then  preacher  at  IJasle,  who  was  so  deeply  aftected 
by  the  discourse  of  the  preacher,  that  he  begged  of  Zwingli  to 
receive  him  into  the  numl)er  of  his  friends,  or  at  least  to  let  him 
be  the  shadow  of  one.  Of  the  sermon  he  writes  : — "  It  was  beau- 
tiful, fundamental,  dignified,  comprehensive,  searching,  truly 
evangelical,  reminding  one,  in  force  of  language  and  of  spirit,  of 
the  old  Fathers  of  the  Church."  jSTeanwliile,  the  Mary-devotees 
decreased  iu  number  daily,  and  yet  Zwingli  was  to  live  by  their 
gifts  ;  but  the  poverty  of  Christ  was  dearer  to  him  in  the  sen'ice 
of  triith,  than  the  riches  of  the  world  in  the  service  of  error.  His 
friend,  Geroldseck,  after  he  had,  through  Zwingli,  come  to  know 
Christ,  was  animated  by  the  same  spirit.  "Never  have  you 
drawn  back,"  Zwingli  wrote  to  him  aftenvards,  "once  that  you 
have  laid  your  hand  to  the  plough ;  you  are,  indeed,  the  friend  of 
all  the  learned,  but  me  you  have  loved  like  a  father,  j'ou  have 
not  only  taken  me  into  the  number  of  your  friends,  but  sliared 
with  me  your  heart.  Go  on  as  you  have  begun ;  stand  fast  at  the 
post  in  which  God  has  placed  you.  God  wOl  finally  lead  you  to 
the  goal.     None  is  crowned  Mdio  has  not  first  well  fought." 

But  the  eye  of  the  Reformer  was  not  confined  to  Einsiedeln, 
and  the  abuses  there ;  he  looked  abroad  on  the  mighty  tide  of 
corruption  which  overspread  the  whole  Church  of  Christ.  In 
such  terms  as  these  he  once  addressed  Cardinal  Schimier:  "  Eveiy 
one  knows,"  says  he,  "  that  the  faith  and  practice  of  Christians 
have,  by  a  gradual  declension,  departed  very  widely  from  sound 
evangelical  doctrine,  and  that  it  has  gone  so  far  as  to  be  unde- 
nial)le,  that  some  very  great  reformation  of  laws  and  manners  is 
absolutely  necessary.  If  we  give  not  vent  to  the  water,  the 
dam  will  be  broken  in  by  force."  Again,  the  following  was  the 
language  he  held  to  Antonius  Puccius,  the  I'ajial  Legate  of  Swit- 
zerland, upon  the  subject  of  ecclesiastical  rcform :  "  I  will  openly 
declare,  and  before  men  who  are  still  living,  that  ere  dissension 
arose  in  the  Church,  I  have  both  by  word  and  deed  witne.s.sed  to 


80  "  AT  EINSIEDELN. 

mighty  cardinals,  prelates,  and  bishops,  of  the  errors  in  doctrine 
which  are  abroad,  and  warned  and  counselled  them  to  remove 
abuses,  or  that  they  themselves  would  perish  in  a  more  dreadful 
revolution.  I  have  told  the  Cardinal  von  Sitten,  at  Einsiedeln, 
(in  1517),  and  afterwards  many  times  at  Zurich,  in  plain  lan- 
guage, that  the  Papacy  has  a  false  foundation,  and  maintained  it 
by  plain  unanswerable  passages  of  Holy  writ.  Tlie  said  cardinal, 
too,  has  often  thus  expressed  himself  to  me :  '  If  God  help  me 
on  the  plank  again,'  (for  he  had  then  fallen  into  disgrace  with 
the  Pope,)  '  I  shall  see  to  it  that  the  arrogance  and  fraud  of  the 
Bishop  of  Eome  be  brought  to  light,  and  put  an  end  to.'"  Zwingli 
tells  us,  too,  that  he  often  talked  this  matter  over  with  the  Legate 
Puccius,  who  asked  him  what  was  to  be  done.  "I  told  him," 
says  Zwingli,  "  I  was  resolved  from  henceforward  to  preach  the 
pure  gospel  to  the  people,  without  regard  to  the  statutes  of  men, 
whereby,  without  doubt,  the  Papacy  would  not  be  a  little  shaken." 
Zwingli's  admonitions  in  the  quarters  above  described  were 
without  effect.  The  adherents  of  Eome,  who  knew  not  the 
divine  power  of  the  gospel  in  the  soul,  still  hoped  to  win  over  to 
their  interests  the  talented  and  intrepid  preacher  of  the  truth.  To 
his  free  and  outspoken  language  Zwingli  received  a  courteous 
and  genuine  Italian  answer ;  he  was,  with  the  most  flattering  ex- 
pressions, created  an  Acolyte-chaplain  of  the  papal  chair,  in  the 
following  terms,  "  Distinguished  by  his  virtues  and  great  merits, 
he  is  recommended  to  him  (the  legate),  as  well  through  his  own 
personal  knowledge  of  him,  as  by  the  honourable  report  he  has 
of  him ;  he  therefore  deserves,  in  the  eyes  of  the  Pope  and  the 
holy  apostolic  chair,  a  recognition  of  his  great  learning,  and  some 
distinguished  mark  of  paternal  approbation."  "  Accordingly,  he 
raises  him,  by  the  authority  received  from  the  Pope,  to  the 
honourable  distinction  of  an  Acolyte-chaplain  of  the  Holy  Father, 
whereby  he  might  perceive  the  favour  he  was  held  in."  He  was 
counselled  to  go  on  advancing  from  good  to  better,  and  by  his 
merits  to  incline  the  Pope  and  hmi  (the  legate),  to  farther  testi- 
monies of  favour.  The  ladder  was  thus  planted  at  the  feet  of 
the  Reformer,  by  which  he  might  mount  to  the  highest  honours 
the  world  had  to  bestow  ;  but  Zwingli  chose  the  crown  of  thorns 
and  the  cross  of  Christ,  before  worldly  glory.  How  little  he 
hoped  from  Eome  he  showed  by  resigning  at  this  time  the  small 


AT  EINSIEDELN.  31 

annual  salary  he  drew  Ironi  the  l'oi)e,  and  it  was  only  on  the 
most  pressing  entreaty  that  he  continued  to  draw  it  for  a  year  or 
two  after. 

Finally,  Zwingli,  as  a  last  resort,  tuiucd  to  tlie  I>ishop  of  Con- 
stance, Hugh  von  Landenberg,  w'ith  the  request  he  would  stay 
the  corruption  of  the  Church  in  his  own  dioeese,  and  recommend 
to  his  clergy  the  preaching  of  the  pure  gospel.  This  prelate  had, 
in  a  pastoral  letter  to  the  clergy  of  his  bishopric,  maintained 
strong  language  on  the  subject  of  the  degeneracy  of  the  Church, 
more  particularly  as  this  had  its  origin  in  the  clergy  themselves,  so 
that  Zwingli  was  led  to  believe  he  would  go  a  step  farther,  and 
resort  to  practical  measures  to  an-est  the  growing  tendency  to 
corruption.  A  circumstance  encouraged  him  in  the  expectation 
that  his  warning  voice  would  not  be  unheeded  by  the  bishop. 
John  Heigerlin,  or  Faber,  who  had  studied  with  Zwingli  at 
Vienna,  and  continued  ever  since  to  manifest  the  greatest  esteem 
for  the  Reformer,  had  risen  to  be  the  bishop's  general-vicar.  But 
the  Bishop  of  Constance  showed  as  little  will  or  power  in  the 
cause  of  church-reform  as  the  Pope  and  his  cardinals.  God 
woidd  have  it,  that  this  wholesome  work  shoidd  lie  performed 
by  other  insti-uments  than  by  the  lordly  prelates  of  the  degenerate 
Eomish  Church.  Notwithstanding  the  failure  of  his  efforts, 
Zwingli  did  not  suffer  himself  to  l)e  dismayfd,  or  to  be  turned 
aside  from  the  path  of  reform  on  which  he  had  entered  "  The 
papacy  must  fall,"  said  he  to  his  friend  Capito,  who  visited  liim 
at  Einsiedeln,  in  1517. 

At  this  time  Leo  X.  sat  on  the  papal  throne,  a  pope  who  re- 
quired enormous  sums  of  money  to  satiate  at  once  his  thirst  for 
glor)^  and  passion  for  the  fine  arts.  The  Germans  were  to  deliver 
these  against  papal  absolution  from  their  sins.  I  n  August  1  ol  8,  a 
monk  came  bare-footed  over  the  St.  Gotthard,  Samson  by  name, 
into  Switzerland,  who,  with  the  like  impudence  as  Tetzel  in 
Saxony,  ottered  his  wares  at  a  cheap  rate.  Schwyz  was  one  of 
the  first  cantons  on  which  the  impudent  hawker  of  unsanctified 
wares  cast  his  eye.  He  began  to  proclaim:  "I  can  forgive  all 
sins ;  heaven  and  hell  stand  under  my  dominion ;  and  I  sell  the 
merits  of  Jesus  Christ  to  each  and  every  one  wdio  is  willing  to 
pay  in  ready  money  for  an  absolution."  Tliis  bla-sphemous  an- 
nouncement aroused  the  indignation  of  our  Ueformcr,  and  he 


32  AT  EINSIEDELN. 

lifted  up  his  voice  in  denouncement  of  it.  "  Jesus  Clirist, 
the  Sou  of  God,  hath  said,  '  Come  to  me  all  ye  that  labour  and 
are  heavy  laden'*  (Matt.  xi.  28).  It  is  audacious  folly  and 
shameless  impudence  to  say,  '  Eun  to  Eome,  buy  a  ticket  of 
absolution,  give  this  to  the  monks,  that  to  the  priests ;  if  you  do 
so,  then  I  pronounce  you  free  of  all  sin."  No ;  Jesus  Christ  is 
the  only  sacrifice,  the  only  gift,  the  alone  way."  The  sermon  of 
Zwingli  had  the  effect  that  Samson  was  forced  to  quit  the  canton 
Schwyz  without  having  transacted  any  business,  and  with  the 
epithets  of  villain  and  rogue  attached  to  his  name. 

But  the  hour  had  struck  when  Zwingli  himself  was  to  leave 
Einsiedeln,  and  betake  himself  to  another  sphere  of  usefulness. 
The  faithful  testimony  that  he  had  lifted  up  here  and  at  Glarus 
for  the  honour  of  God  and  the  alone  salvation  in  Christ  Jesus, 
found  a  warm  recognition  and  admiration  in  the  bosoms  of  all 
his  serious  contemporaries,  while  without  doubt  it  stands  recorded 
in  the  book  of  life.  The  number  of  his  friends  and  admirers  had 
increased  from  day  to  day  in  all  parts  of  Switzerland  and  South 
Germany,  whilst  his  older  friends  felt  themselves  more  and  more 
endeared  to  the  man  whose  heart  beat  so  loftily  for  God  and  the 
Saviour,  and  the  weal  of  men.  But  not  individuals  alone,  whole 
towns  turned  their  eyes  upon  the  preacher  of  evangelical  truth, 
and  desired  to  have  him  in  their  centre.  First  of  all,  the  inhalii- 
tants  of  Winterthur  sent  him  a  call  to  the  vacant  charge  in 
their  town.  But  at  the  expressed  desire  of  the  people  of  Glarus, 
who  still  hoped  he  might  return  to  them,  he  sent  a  refusal,  and 
recommended  in  his  place  his  friend  Magister  Dingauer,  who 
was  chosen,  and  who  accepted  the  call.  In  the  meantime,  the 
office  of  Leut-priest,  or  parish  priest,  at  the  minster  of  Zurich, 
had  become  vacant,  and  there  were  not  wanting  those  who,  as 
Myconius  mentions,  worked  night  and  day  that  he  might  be  chosen 
to  it.  Without  doubt,  the  authority  for  this  statement  himself, 
who  had  for  a  year  past  been  a  teacher  in  the  minster  school, 
belonged  to  the  number  of  Zwingli's  canvassers.  "  He,"  continues 
Myconius,  "  knew  nothing  of  the  matter,  when,  happening  to  be 
on  a  visit  to  Zurich,  he  was  asked  by  one  of  the  canons  whether 
he  had  any  desire  to  be  a  preacher  of  the  Word  of  God  in  Zurich. 

*  These  words  Zwingli  employed  as  a  watchword  for  the  friends  of  truth, 
and  lie  prefixed  them  as  a  motto  to  all  his  writings. 


AT  EINSIEDELN.  33 

'Yes,'  replied  Zwingli,  'I  have  the  dcsiiv,  lor  Uiltc  i.s  n-asuii  to 
hope  that  if  the  gi'uce  of  Christ  he  prochuineil  from  so  renowned 
a  phice,  and  accepted  there,  the  rest  of  Switzerland  will  follow 
the  example.'"  Many  applied  for  the  vacant  otiice.  Myconius 
canvassed  in  the  name  of  his  friend  for  it,  and  finally  Zwingli  was 
elected  by  the  votes  of  seventeen  out  of  the  twenty-four  canons,  a 
result  which  was  hailed  with  hearty  joy  by  all  the  friends  of  truth. 
"The  whole  youth  of  Switzerland,"  wi'ote  Glarean  from  Paris, 
"  rejoice,  throw  their  caps  into  the  air,  especially  the  Zurichers. 
As  for  me,  I  have  less  cause  to  wish  you  joy  than  to  express 
grief  for  my  friends  of  Clarus."  Before  entering  on  his  new 
duties,  he  went  to  Glarus,  and  there,  in  the  town-hall,  in  the 
presence  of  the  assembled  magistrates,  he  resigned  the  cure  he 
still  held  in  this  place,  to  the  universal  regret  of  all  good  men. 
The  community  shewed  the  high  esteem  in  which  they  held 
him,  by  electing,  at  his  reconmiendation,  his  scholar  and  friend, 
Valeuti  Tschudi,  as  his  successor.  The  Council  of  Schwyz  gave 
him  a  mark  of  their  regard  at  departing,  presenting  him  with  an 
official  wilting,  in  which,  among  other  things,  they  said:  "Al- 
though we  are  in  part  giieved  by  your  departure  from  the  midst 
of  us  at  Einsiedeln,  yet,  on  the  other  hand,  we  rejoice  with  you 
in  all  that  mmisters  to  your  honour  and  advantage."  His  friend 
Leo  Jud  was,  at  his  reconnnendation,  appointed  his  successor 
at  Einsiedeln.  Zwingli  having  thus,  by  these  wise  .suggestions, 
taken  measures  for  the  cariying  on  of  the  good  work  conunenced 
under  liis  own  immediate  auspices  in  Glarus  and  Einsiedeln,  bent 
his  steps  to  Zurich  about  the  end  of  the  year  1518. 


THIKD    SECTION. 

ZWINGLI'S  ENTRANCE  ON  HIS  OFFICIAL  DUTIES  AT  ZUEICH— 
STYLE  OF  PREACHING— HIS  DIFFICULTIES  AND  CONFLICTS— 
HIS  JOYS  AND  SORROWS— HIS  STUDIES  AND  FRIENDS— FROM 
1519-1523,  OR  TILL  THE  FIRST  DISPUTATION  ON  RELIGION. 

"  Thy  word  is  a  light  to  my  feet,  and  a  lamp  to  my  path." — PsAUi  cxix.  105. 

1.  Entrance  on  Official  Duties,  and  Style  of  Preaching. 

A  grey  fog,  one  December  morning,  was  lying  on  the  lakes  and 
vales  of  Switzerland,  while  the  icy  moimtain-snmmits  were  glow- 
ing in  the  splendour  of  a  sun  just  beginning  to  ascend  a  clear 
cerulean  sky.  In  calm  majesty  he  was  sending  his  rays  deeper 
and  deeper  into  the  abysses  of  the  mountains,  while  the  edges  of 
the  sea  of  fog  in  which  they  were  enveloped  were  hemmed  with 
a  border  of  light  ever  expanding ;  at  length  his  perpendicular 
rays  dispersed  the  fog  before  his  meridian  brightness,  disclosing, 
first  of  all,  the  church-towers,  like  fingers  of  God  in  the  grey 
mist,  pointing  towards  heaven ;  finally,  every  vestige  of  the  fog 
has  cleared  away,  and  all  nature  stands  glowing  in  the  beams  of 
the  king  of  day.  On  such  a  morning  as  this  Zwingli  left  the 
heights  of  Einsiedeln,  to  sail  up  the  beautiful  blue  lake,  towards 
his  new  sphere  of  labour.  In  the  struggles  of  the  morning  sun 
with  the  cloudy  vapours,  he  beheld  an  image  of  that  conflict  with 
the  powers  of  darkness,  which  he  himself  was  now  hastening  to 
wage.  "  As  the  heaven,  peaceful  and  clear,  encircles  with  its 
blue  canopy  high  over  head  the  whole  earth,  though  lightnings 
and  tempests  be  beneath;  thus  the  truly  wise  man,  the  Chris- 
tian, rises  above  all  storms  and  tempests.  If  you  weigh  aU  you 
wiU  find  that  the  principle  of  good  is  stronger  than  that  of  evil, 
and  that  in  the  end  virtue  overcomes  vice.  True  wisdom  obtains 
the  mastery  over  inicjuity;  for  at  the  moment  when  this  has 


OFFICIAL  DUTIES,  AND  STYLE  OF  PREACHING.  35 

readied  its  culiniuating  point,   the  divine  power  seizes  it  and 
hurls  it  into  the  abyss.     Herein  God  shews  his  power." 

Zwingli  entered  Zurich  on  the  day  of  John  tlie  Evangelist,  the 
27th  December,  and  took  up  his  quarters  at  the  hotel  ol'  the 
Hermit,  where  he  was  honourably  entertained,  as  Bullinger  tells 
us ;  for  many  of  Zurich's  best  sons  rejoiced  in  his  election.  Others, 
again,  who  had  cause  to  fear  his  unbending  ihiuness,  and  indom- 
itable spirit,  beheld  with  no  great  pleasure  the  bold  preacher  of 
the  truth  enter  their  town;  for  Zurich  was,  according  to  Bullin- 
ger, before  the  preaching  of  the  gospel,  like  Corinth  of  old,  in 
Greece.  "There  was,"  says  he,  "much  immorality  and  licen- 
tiousness among  the  inhabitants,  principally  owing  to  the  Confe- 
derate Diets  being  held  there,  to  which  many  strangers  came, 
along  with  the  servants  of  the  princes  and  nobles,  who  slept  in 
the  town."  Immediately  after  his  arrival,  Zwingli  proceeded  to 
the  chapter,  where  the  prebendaries,  under  the  presidency  of  their 
provost.  Master  Felix  Frei,  were  assembled,  to  acquaint  the  new 
parish  priest  with  the  duties  of  his  office,  and  formally  to  install 
him  in  it.  Of  the  fourteen  sections  composing  the  address  intro- 
ductory to  his  installation,  only  the  two  shortest  concerned  that 
which  Zwingli  regarded  as  his  chief  duty,  his  preaching.  But  at 
great  length,  and  in  very  urgent  terms,  the  duty  was  impressed  upon 
him,  of  looking  after  the  maintenance  and  increase  of  the  funds 
of  the  foundation.  Zwingli,  on  his  part,  hundjly  tendered  his 
thanks,  in  the  first  place,  for  the  honour  of  his  election  to  the 
vacant  office.  He  then  gave  them  plainly  to  understand,  that  it 
was  his  firm  and  decided  intention  to  preach  the  history  of  Jesus 
Christ,  our  Eedeemer,  according  to  the  Gospel  of  Matthew^  that 
the  people  might  not,  as  hitherto,  to  the  great  dishonour  of  the 
name  of  God,  and  Him  after  whom  they  were  called,  know  Jesus 
Christ  by  name  only,  while  they  were  ignorant  of  the  whole  his- 
tory of  his  life  and  redemi)tion.  He  would,  therefore,  take  up 
the  whole  of  the  Gospel  of  ^Matthew,  and  preach  upon  it  verse 
by  verse,  and  chapter  by  chapter,  without  regard  to  the  commen- 
taries of  men,  by  which  h(>  would  not  be  bound,  but  giv^ing  the 
sense,  according  as  a  laborious  and  prayerful  investigation  of  the 
original  Scriptm-es  had  enabled  him  to  arrive  at  it.  This  he 
would  do  to  the  praise  and  gloiy  of  God  and  liis  only  Son,  for 
the  salvation  of  the  souls  of  men,  and  tlicir  up-building  in  the 


36  OFFICIAL  DUTIES,  AND  STYLE  OF  PREACHING. 

true  faith.  This  avowal  filled  with  joy  the  Canons  Utinger, 
Engelhard,  Walder  and  others,  while  it  excited  alami  and  giief 
in  the  Provost  Frei  and  the  Canon  Hoffmann :  all  felt  them- 
selves on  the  threshold  of  great  events.  Canon  Hoffmann  rose 
and  expressed  a  wish  that  the  election  they  had  made  would 
be  followed  by  no  bad  results ;  such  an  exposition  of  Scripture 
to  the  people  would,  in  his  opinion,  do  more  harm  than  good. 
Others  warned  the  new  priest  against  innovations  which  could 
result  in  nothing  but  evil.  But  Zwingli  answered :  this  manner 
of  preaching  is  not  an  innovation ;  it  is  the  good  old  path,  that 
has  been  trod  by  the  Fathers  of  the  Church,  as  might  be  very 
well  seen  in  the  Homilies  of  Chrysostom  on  Matthew,  and  the 
reflections  of  Aiigustine  iipon  John.  At  the  same  time,  he  would 
see  to  it,  to  act  in  such  a  Christian  spirit  that  no  friend  of  truth 
should  have  any  just  ground  of  complaint  against  him.  The 
matter  was  thus  allowed  to  rest.  On  Sunday,  the  New-year's 
day  of  1519,  his  thirty-sixth  birth-day,  Zwingli  mounted  the 
pulpit  of  the  venerable  minster,  and  proclaimed  to  a  crowded 
congregation,  "  that  he  would  lead  them  to  Christ,  the  tr-ue  well 
of  salvation,  since  His  gospel  tuas  the  power  of  God  to  salvation, 
to  all  them  that  believe"  In  this,  his  inaugural  discourse,  he 
repeated  his  resolution,  which  he  had  already  expressed  to  the 
canons,  to  expound  the  gospel  of  Matthew,  as  well  as  occasion- 
ally another  book  of  Holy  Scripture  in  connection  therewith. 
His  external  appearance  made  a  favourable  impression ;  for  Zwin- 
gli, according  to  Bullinger,  was  a  fine-looking  man  in  form  and 
figure,  and  he  was  now  in  the  flower  of  manly  age.  "  Let  one," 
says  Hagenbach,  "  only  look  at  his  portrait ;  let  him  observe  this 
energetic,  well-compacted  head,  this  marked  physiognomy,  as  if 
stone-carved,  this  expansive  forehead,  this  full,  clear  eye,  this 
compressed  mouth,  with  the  well-rounded  lips."  Lavater  reads 
in  tliis  cast  of  countenance,  "  Earnestness,  reflection,  manly  reso- 
lution, concentrated  energy,  a  far-seeing,  penetrating  understand- 
ing." To  a  powerful  frame  of  body,  he  added  a  well-modulated, 
deep-toned  voice.  In  preaching  he  had  an  agreeable  delivery, 
highly  appropriate  to  the  subject.  His  language  was  simple, 
popular,  and  dignified ;  in  exposition  it  was  clear  and  perspicuous, 
in  administering  discipline  serious  and  fatherly,  in  warning  urgent, 
coming  home  to  the  soul,  in  comforting  warm  and  affectionate. 


OFFICIAL  DUTIES,  AND  STYLE  OF  PKEACHING.  37 

His  distinguished  oratorical  powers,  which  had  at  their  command 
the  whole  fulness  of  gospel  truth,  as  it  flowed  to  him  through 
the  channels  of  prayer  and  earnest  application  to  God's  Word, 
with  a  rapid  insight  into  the  practical  affairs  of  life  and  the 
errors  of  the  heart,  he  wielded  with  a  manly  resolution,  and  at 
the  same  time,  with  moderation  and  judgment.  He  magnified 
the  gloiy  and  majesty  of  Clod  the  Father,  taught  that  He  alone 
was  to  he  worshipped  in  spirit  and  in  truth,  and  shewed  that  all 
men,  without  distinction,  could  obtain  salvation  in  none  other 
but  in  Christ.  At  the  same  time,  he  warned  against  every  kind 
of  superstition,  of  will-worship,  and  hji^ocrisy.  "With  uplifted 
voice  he  preached  repentance  and  amendment  of  life,  the  exercise 
of  Christian  charity  and  fidelity  ;  he  attacked  with  resolution  the 
vdces  most  spread  amongst  the  people ;  he  preached  earnestly 
against  inordinate  expense  in  eating  and  drinking,  and  the  wear- 
ing of  Hue  clothes,  against  oppression  of  the  poor,  against  mer- 
cenary wars,  and  the  taking  of  gifts  or  bribes  in  the  shape  of  pen- 
sions. Herein  he  spared  neither  pope  nor  emperor,  king  nor 
didce,  princes  nor  nobles,  not  even  the  confederates  themselves. 
All  his  discourse  rested  on  the  foundation  of  God's  Word,  which 
he  explained  and  expounded,  as  he  went  along,  and  it  was  per- 
vaded by  the  living  conviction,  that  in  the  end,  and  by  the  help 
of  God,  tnith  and  righteousness  would  gain  the  day  over  lying, 
error,  h}i)ocrisy,  and  vice.  "  AU  his  comfort,"  says  a  contemporary, 
"was  in  God,  in  whom  he  tnisted,  and  in  whom  he  rejoiced;  he 
exhorted  the  town  of  Zurich  to  place  their  trust  in  Him  alone."* 
Fearless  and  intrepid  as  Zwingli  was  in  attacking  with  the 
sword  of  the  Spirit  prevailing  corruptions,  he  had,  at  the  same 
time,  a  tender  and  considerate  regard  for  the  intellectual  and  spi- 
ritual deficiencies  of  his  hearers.  The  following  are  the  principles 
which  guided  him  in  this  respect.  "  Christ,"  says  he,  "  praises  very 
highly  the  faithful  steward,  who  gave  to  the  household  of  his 
lord  their  meat  in  due  season  (Matt.  xxiv.  45).  I  set  before  me, 
therefore,  so  to  divide  the  Word  of  God,  that  the  Lord  may  have 
thereby  the  gi-eatest  fruit.  Who  is  there  who  would  not  dismis.s 
a  servant  who  would  plough  and  sow  a  field  in  the  midst  of  the 
storms  of  winter?   Spring  is  the  i)roper  time  for  this  work.    Thus 

•  This  account  of  Zwingli's  preaching  is  taken  nearly  word  for  word  from  the 
reports  of  several  of  his  contemporari<'s  and  friends. 


B8  OFFICIAL  DUTIES,  AND  STYLE  OF  PREACHING. 

in  what  I  announced,  and  what  I  withheld,  I  yielded  much  to 
the  weak,  but  all  for  edification.  I  would  not  give  strong  meat 
at  an  unseasonable  time,  nor  cast  pearls  before  swine.  I  have 
preached  clearly  and  fully,  and  constantly  and  earnestly  incul- 
cated upon  the  minds  of  my  hearers,  the  true  salvation,  Christ 
Jesus  himself,  and  taught  them  to  expect  all  good  from  Him,  to 
apply  to  Him  in  every  strait.  For  if  He  hath  suffered  death  for 
us,  when  we  were  yet  enemies  to  Him,  how  can  he  possibly  be 
angry  with  us  now  that  we  believe  on  Him.  As  Paul  says, 
*  But  God  commendeth  his  love  towards  us,  in  that,  while  we 
were  yet  sinners,  Christ  died  for  us.  Much  more,  then,  being 
now  justified  by  his  blood,  we  shall  be  saved  from  wrath  through 
him.' — (Eom.  v.  8,  9).  In  this  manner,  I  preached  the  free 
grace  of  God  to  my  fellow-men,  seeking  to  make  it  attractive  to 
them,  well  knowing  what  God  would  work  by  his  Word,  if  once 
it  found  entrance  into  their  minds.  Oftentimes  have  I  so  far 
given  way  to  the  weak  and  foolish-minded,  that  I  have  said  to 
them,  when  they  began  to  shew  their  captiousness,  well  then, 
bring  your  desires  to  the  saints  ;  I  will  spread  out  my  case  before 
God  ;  let  us  see  who  has  taken  the  best  way.  Thus  I  fed  them 
with  milk,  till  some  of  those  who  were  most  virulent  against  me, 
in  the  end  gave  themselves  wholly  to  the  Lord.  For  they  felt 
in  their  own  hearts  how  sweet  the  Lord  is,  and  that  every  one 
who  knows  Him  aright,  must  cry  out  with  the  disciples — '  Lord, 
to  whom  shall  we  go  ?  Thou  hast  the  words  of  eternal  life,' 
(John  vi.  68.)  '  I  held  him,  and  would  not  let  him  go,'  (Song  of 
Sol.  iii.  4.)  For  he  who  has  learned  to  know  God  aright,  and 
has  been  led  home  by  his  hand  like  a  strayed  child,  can  never ' 
leave  him ;  and  though,  by  the  force  of  bodily  pains,  the  mouth 
were  brought  to  deny  him,  yet  the  heart  would  still  adhere  to 
him ;  for  it  knows  that  God  alone  is  its  salvation,  through  Jesus 
Christ.  And  I  tell  those  this  day  who  preach  the  "Word  of  God, 
and  who  preach  it  so  as  to  draw  salvation  alone  from  it,  that  the 
trust  in  the  one  living  and  true  God  will  go  on  to  increase,  while 
the  trust  in  refuges  of  lies  will  decrease  and  decay ;  and  since 
man  must  place  his  whole  confidence  in  God,  and  in  him  alone, 
I  had  rather  yield  somewhat  to  human  weakness  than  that  the 
doctrine  of  Christ  were  altogether  put  aside.  For,  alas  !  there 
are  some  so  ignorant  of  the  truth,  that  they  reject  the  doctrine  of 


OFFICIAL  DUTIES,  AND  STYLE  OF  PREACHING.  ,S9 

Christ  so  soon  as  one  convinces  them  of  error.  'Tis  thus  tliat  a 
hundred  times  I  have  often  said  to  the  more  advanced  Christians, 
I  conjure  you  by  Jesus  Christ,  and  our  common  faith,  that  ye  be 
not  over  liasty  to  propose  any  cliange,  if  for  no  otlier  reason  but 
this,  tliat  ye  may  prove  that  ye  are  Christians  indeed  by  the 
patience  with  which  ye  bear,  for  the  sake  of  the  weak,  that  which, 
according  to  the  strict  law  of  Christ,  ye  ought  not  to  bear." 

This  admirable  union  of  heroic  courage  and  indomitable  rcso- 
hition  with  moderation  of  temper,  and  a  tender  delicacy  of  feeling 
towards  the  weak,  manifested  in  the  preaching  of  Zwingli,  and 
traceable,  indeed,  through  the  whole  of  his  career,  sits  with  such 
a  grace  on  the  ardent  apostle  of  truth  and  righteousness,  that  we 
cannot  but  at  once  admire  and  love  him.  The  man  who  was  so 
firmly  founded  in  the  Word  of  God,  that  he  could  say,  I  am  sure 
that  this  is  the  mind  of  God  ;  and,  though  you  threaten  me  with 
all  the  malice  of  Rome,  with  all  the  fire  of  ^tna,  or  of  hell 
itself,  I  shall  not  budge  fi-om  it,  (See  Part  II.,  Book  I.,)  could 
yet  admit  to  a  boy,  who  recalled  to  his  mind  a  false  expression  he 
had  made  use  of  in  the  pulpit,  that  he  was  wrong,  saying  to  the 
critical  youngster,  "  We  can  learn  much  from  boys  when  they  are 
sharp  and  attentive."  In  this  manner,  Zwingli  gained  all  hearts 
that  were  receptive  of  the  truth,  refreshed  them  with  heavenly 
manna,  edified  them  with  Christian  wisdom,  and  trained  them  to 
spiritual  discipline.  At  the  hearing  of  his  veiy  first  sermon,  there 
were  men  who  said,  men  namely  who  had  entirely  withdrawn 
from  the  services  of  the  Church,  on  the  ground  that  the  sennons 
delivered  there  wanted  the  one  thing  needful,  which  the  preacher 
himself  had  not  learned,  "  God  l)e  praised,  here  is  a  preacher  of 
the  truth  indeed ;  he  will  be  our  Moses,  and  will  lead  us  out  of 
Eg}-pt."  Another,  Tliomas  Plater,  reports,  that  once  as  he  heard 
a  sermon  of  Zwinglis,  on  the  text,  "  I  am  the  good  Shepherd," 
(John  X.  11.)  "  It  was  as  if  some  one  had  dragged  him  to  the 
preacher  by  the  hair  of  his  head."  "  Never,"  says  Myconius,"  had 
there  been  seen  a  priest  in  the  pulpit  with  such  an  imposing 
appearance  and  commanding  power,  so  that  you  were  irresistibly 
led  to  believe  that  a  man  from  the  apostolic  times  was  standing 
before  you." 

The  town-people  flocked  in  crowds  to  listen  to  him,  and  evpri 
the  countiy-people  were  animated  wi»h  an  increased  desire  to  hear 


40  OTTICIAL  DUTIES,  AND  STYLE  OF  PEEACHING. 

the  pure  Word  of  God  from  his  lips.  To  meet  the  desires  of  the 
latter,  Zwingli  began,  in  1520,  to  preach  on  the  Psalms,  each 
Friday,  the  market-day  in  Zurich,  when  crowds  came  in  from  the 
country,  in  a  similar  manner  as  he  did  on  a  book  of  the  New  Tes- 
tament every  Sabbath.  In  this  manner  the  leaven  of  the  gospel 
was  carefully  hid  in  the  hearts  of  the  Christian  people,  both  in 
town  and  country,  in  joyful  confidence  in  God  that  he  would 
cause  it  to  penetrate  and  transform  the  mass.  With  what  success 
the  preaching  of  the  gospel  was  accompanied,  a  letter  of  Zwingli's 
to  Myconius,  under  date  31st  December  1519,  clearly  shews,  in 
which  he  reports  to  that  friend,  that  at  Zurich  upwards  of  2000 
souls  had  been  already  so  strengthened  and  nourished  by  the 
milk  of  evangelic  truth,  that  they  could  now  bear  stronger  food, 
and  anxiously  longed  for  it.  Zwingli  describes,  in  a  very  touch- 
ing manner,  the  change  wrought  upon  these  people,  both  in  their 
modes  of  thinking,  and  in  their  whole  walk  and  conversation, 
(Part  II.,  Book  II.  4.)  Nay,  the  majority  of  the  Town-Council  of 
Zurich  itself  had  made  such  an  advance  through  the  preaching  of 
Zwingli  that,  as  early  as  1520,  they  issued  a  mandate  to  the 
parish  priests,  curates,  and  predicants,  in  town  and  country, 
"  that  they  should  freely  and  everywhere  preach  the  holy  gos- 
pels, and  the  epistles  of  the  holy  apostles,  and  that  they  should 
all  speak  the  same  language  as  the  Spirit  of  God  should  direct 
them,  and  the  inspired  text  of  both  Testaments,  and  that  they 
should  only  pronnilgate  and  teach  that  which  they  could  prove 
and  establish  by  the  said  Word  of  God.  But  as  for  the  doctrines 
and  commandments  that  were  of  man's  institution,  they  should 
let  them  alone."  This  ordinance  was  the  first  great  victory  which 
the  preaching  of  the  gospel  publicly  celebrated  in  Zurich. 

Yet  it  was  easier  to  issue  such  orders  than  to  find  men  who 
were  willing  and  able  to  obey  them.  Zwingli  felt  this  too,  and 
hence  his  efforts  were  directed  to  draw  men  of  evangehcal  faith 
to  Zurich,  men  both  able  and  willing  to  undertake  the  preaching 
of  the  true  Word  of  God.  Zwingli,  finding  the  curates,  at  his 
arrival  in  Zurich,  men  who  could  be  of  little  service  to  him,  and 
indeed  who  had  no  desire  to  assist  him,  had  they  been  able,  took 
into  his  own  house  two  excellent  youths,  George  Stacheli,  from 
the  canton  Schwyz,  and  Henry  Luti,  from  the  Lake  of  Zurich, 
whom  ho  boarded  at  his  own  table.     These  young  men  shared 


OFFICIAL  DUTIES,  AND  STYLE  OF  TKEACHING.  +1 

his  labours  (for  during  the  first  t^vo  years  he  regularly  read  mass, 
and  sedulously  performed  all  his  ofticial  duties),  and  enabled  him 
to  overtake  the  laborious  work  of  a  parish  which  embraced  the 
greater  half  of  the  city,  and  the  surrounding  \illages.  With 
their  assistance  he  obtained  leisure  to  bestow  a  great«i!r  degree 
of  care  upon  his  sermons.  The  parson  at  St.  Peter's  in  Zurich, 
Ralph  lioeschli,  having  received  his  dismissal  in  the  course  of 
the  year  1.522,  Zwingli  induced  his  friend  Leo  Jud,  to  come 
from  Einsiedeln,  and  preach  in  St.  Peter's.  He  gave  such  satis- 
faction to  the  parishioners  that  they  immediately  elected  him. 
Tluis  the  two  friends,  who  sat  together  at  the  feet  of  their  vener- 
ated instructor,  Dr.  AVittenbach,  in  P>asle,  were  again  united,  and 
remained  united  in  the  service  of  their  Lord  and  Master  till  the 
rude  hand  of  death  parted  them. 

In  the  tirst  four  }-ears  of  his  labours  at  Zurich,  Zwingli,  as  he 
himseK  tells  us,  expounded  the  following  books  of  the  Kew  Tes- 
tament. "  At  my  arrival  at  Zurich,"  said  he,  "  I  began  with  the 
exposition  of  the  Gospel  of  St.  Matthew,  and  then  passed  to  the 
Acts  of  the  Apustles,  in  order  to  make  my  hearers  acquainted 
with  the  extension  and  spread  of  the  gospel  in  the  first  ages. 
The  first  Epistle  to  Timothy  then  followed,  to  their  great  profit, 
for  this  epistle  sets  forth  to  the  true  Christian  the  rules  to 
guide  him  in  his  walk  and  conversation.  As  the  doctrine  of 
truth  had  been  sadly  disfigured  by  soi)liistical  teachers,  I  post- 
poned the  second  Epistle  to  Timothy  till  I  had  gone  through  that 
to  the  Galatians, — and  then  I  returned  to  the  former — to  shew  to 
the  people  Paul's  gi-eat  merits,  and  his  high  value  as  an  apostle, 
in  opposition  to  the  false  doctors  who  depreciated  him — false 
doctors,  who  gave  out  for  piety  what  no  man  coidd  possibly  take 
tdlence  at.  AMio  then  is  this  Paul  ?  say  they.  Is  he  not  a  man  ? 
An  apostle,  indeed,  but  of  lesser  magnitude;  none  of  the  twelve  ; 
he  was  never  in  the  company  of  Chi'ist,  he  has  laid  down  no 
articles  of  faith.  I  ])ut  no  more  faith  in  Paul  than  in  Thomas,  or 
in  Scotus  ;*  such  is  their  language.  I  then  let  the  tsvo  Epistles 
of  Peter  follow  the  second  Epistle  to  Timothy,  to  shew  the  despisers 

*  Thomai!  Aquino  (l)(>rn  1224,  died  1274).  and  Johannes  Seotus,  (died  804), 
two  pehoolnicn  of  the  middle  ages,  who,  more  than  all  others,  contrihuted  to 
rlevclop  and  ronfirni  the  eiTors  of  a  churcli  that  had  dei>arted  from  the  simpli- 
rity  of  God's  Word  ;  lience  they  were  held  in  iiernliar  veneration  hy  the  Roman- 
ists, especially  the  monks. 


42  LABOURS  AS  A  PATRIOT. 

of  Paul  that  both  apostles  were  inspired  by  the  same  Spirit,  and 
that  both  taught  the  same  things.  I  then  began  the  Epistle  to 
the  Hebrews,  to  awaken  the  minds  of  my  hearers  to  the  mercy 
displayed  in  the  mission  of  Jesus  Christ  in  all  its  extent.  Here 
they  were  to  learn  that  Christ  is  our  alone  true  High-priest,  and 
they  learned  this  lesson  well.  That  was  the  seed  I  sowed  ;  ISIat- 
thew,  Luke,  Paul,  Peter,  have  watered  it ;  but  God  caused  it  to 
thrive  nobly,  and  bear  fruit,  and  this  I  declare,  not  as  if  I  sought 
mine  own  and  not  Christ's  honour.  Go,  and  mamtain  if  you  can, 
that  it  has  not  been  planted  by  the  heavenly  Father." 

The  above  may  suffice  as  a  sketch  of  Zwingii's  preaching 
during  the  first  years  of  his  labours  at  Zurich  ;  for  farther  satis- 
faction on  this  head,  I  refer  to  the  1st  Book  of  the  2d  Part, 
which  consists  of  a  sermon  that  Zwingii  delivered  in  the  Church 
of  the  Cloister,  Selnau,  in  the  summer  of  the  year  1522.  This 
sermon  affords  a  good  example  of  his  style,  and  at  the  same  time 
developes  his  ideas  regarding  the  fundamental  doctrine  of  the 
Word  of  God,  and  his  application  of  it  to  life  and  practice. 


2.  ZwiNGLi's  Labours  as  a  I'atriot,  especially  in  regard  to 
THE  Evils  of  Foreign  IMilitary  Service. 

It  has  been  already  stated,  that  Zwingii's  chief  motive  for 
removing  from  Einseideln  to  Zurich,  the  capital  of  the  Confe- 
deracy, was  his  desire,  from  this  central  point,  to  work  through 
the  preaching  of  the  Word  towards  the  rehgious  and  moral  refor- 
mation of  his  country,  for  patriotism  from  his  childhood  filled  his 
whole  soul,  and  gave  him  ever  a  ready  and  tangible  object  for 
the  exertion  of  his  powers.  "  Next  to  my  concern  for  the  Word 
of  God,"  he  writes,  "  the  interests  of  the  Confederacy  lie  nearest 
my  heart.  For  the  longing  deske  of  my  heart,  and  the  great 
object  of  my  teaching,  has  been  the  preservation  of  the  Confe- 
deracy, that  it  might  remain,  as  handed  down  to  us  from  our 
fathers,  true  to  itself,  and  free  from  service  under  foreign  masters, 
and  that  the  members  of  it  might  live  together  in  peace  and 
friendship."  At  the  period  of  his  entrance  into  public  life,  his 
country  was  groanhig  under  the  evils  and  disorders  introduced 
by  mercenary  warfare  and  its  consequences.     Zwingii  lifted  up 


LABOURS  AS  A  PATRIOT.  43 

his  voice  energetically  against  this  crying  evil.     "  Our  fathers," 
said  he,  "  conquered  their  enemies,  and  won  their  freedom,  rely- 
ing on  no  other  arm  but  the  ann  of  the  Almighty,*  and  they 
were  ready  at  all  times  to  recognise  His  intei-vention   in  their 
behalf,  in  gratitude  and  praise,  as  the  children  of  Israel  did,  who, 
after  theii'  redemption  out  of  the  hand  of  Pharaoh,  and  their  pas- 
sage of  the  lied  Sea,  sang  praises  to  Jehovah.      '  I  will  sing  unto 
the  Lord,  for  he  hath  triumphed  gloriously :  the  horse  and  his 
rider  hath  he  thrown  into  the  sea.     The  Lord  is  my  strength  and 
song,  and  he   is  become   my  salvation,'  Exod.  xv.  1,  2.      Our 
ancestors  took  no  wages  to  slay  their  fellow-Christians,  but  they 
fought  alone  for  their  independence,  and  the  freedom  of  themselves, 
their  wives,  and  children,  from  the  y(jke  of  a  haughty  and  wanton 
aristocracy.     Therefore,  God  gave  the  victoiy  into  their  hands, 
increased  them  in  honour  and  wealth,  so  that  there  was  no  master 
that  could  subdue  them,  however  strong  he  might  be.     Such 
glorious   results,   however,   were    accomplished  by   no    human 
agency,  but  alone  through  the  power  and  grace  of  God.     Now, 
however,  we  have  begun  to  please  ourselves,  and  to  esteem  our- 
selves wise  in  that  which  is  God's,  as,  indeed,  man  often  does. 
Now,  when  they  have  got  loaded  with  this  world's  riches -f-  and 
glory,  they  rebel   against  God,    and  become    arrogant.      '  But 
Jeshunm  waxed  fat  and  kicked,'  Deut.  xxxii.  15.     'Lo,  this  is 
the  man  that  made  not  God  his  strength  ;  but  trusted  in  the 
abundance  of  his  riches,  and  strengthened  himself  in  his  wicked- 
ness,' Psalm  lii.  7.     Think  ye  not  that  loss  and  shame  will  be 
our  portion  from  the  Lord  if  we  thus  magnify  our  own  name, 
saying,  'We  have  done  this!     We  shall  do  that!     No  man  may 
withstand  us !'     As  if  we  had  '  made  a  covenant  with  death,  and 
with  hell  were  at  an  agreement,'  as  Tsaiah  says,  chap,  xxviii.  and 
as  if  no  man  could   harm  us.      Thus  some  amongst  us,  being 
led  away  to  forget  themselves,  and  God  himself,  by  the  force  of 

*  The  Swiss,  in  old  times,  began  their  battles  with  prayer;  and,  when  they 
gained  the  victory,  they  fell  upon  their  knees,  and  thanked  God  for  his  help. 
The  monuments  with  which  they  comnicniorated  battle-fields  were  houses  of 
prayer,  or  chapels. 

t  By  their  victory  over  Charles  the  Bold,  and  the  plundering  of  his  camps, 
the  Swiss  obtained  vast  ri<hcs.  This  begat  a  love  of  luxtiry  and  pomp,  which 
drew  farther  notirishment  from  the  pay  and  pensions  they  received  in  foreign 
service. 


44  LABOUES  AS  A  PATRIOT. 

evil  passions,  the  devil,  the  great  enemy  of  all  the  good,  like  the 
serpent  at  the  creation,  has  stirred  up  foreign  lords,*  who  have 
spoken  thus  to  us  :  Ye  strong  heroes  ought  not  to  remain  in  your 
land  and  in  your  mountains.  What  will  you  with  this  bleak 
land  ?  Serve  us  for  gold,  ye  will  tlms  gain  a  great  name,  and 
much  wealth,  and  your  valour  will  he  known  to  men,  and  be 
feared.     In  a  similar  strain  spake  the  devil  to  Eve  by  the  serpent. 

"  Against  all  such  promises  Solomon  warns  us,  saying,  '  An 
hypocrite  with  his  mouth  destroy eth  his  neighbour'  (Pro v.  xi.  9.) 
In  this  manner,  they,  (the  foreign  lords,)  have  so  wheedled  and 
enticed  us,  simple  Confederates,  seeking  tlieir  own  profit,  that  at 
length  they  have  brought  us  into  such  danger  and  disagree- 
ment between  ourselves,  that  we,  not  regarding  our  fatherland, 
have  more  care  how  to  maintain  them  in  their  wealth  and  power, 
than  to  defend  our  own  houses,  wives,  and  children.  And  this 
were  less,  had  we  not  shame  and  damage  out  of  this  pact.  We 
have  at  Naples,  at  Nivarre,  and  Milan,  suffered  greater  loss  in 
the  service  of  these  masters  than  since  we  have  been  a  Confede- 
racy ;  in  our  own  wars  we  have  been  ever  conquerors,  in  foreign 
wars  often  vanquished ;  such  evils,  it  is  to  be  feared,  have  been 
brought  about  by  those  who  seek  more  their  own  private  gain 
than  the  true  interests  of  their  country. 

"  But  now,  from  this  cause,  there  arises  to  the  community  at 
home  the  great  misfortune,  that  avarice,  wantonness,  insolence, 
and  disobedience,  more  and  more  gain  the  ascendency,  if  we 
shall  not  take  other  measures,  and  open  our  eyes,  so  as  to  prevent 
the  dangers  that  threaten  us.  The  first  and  great  datiger  is  this, 
that  we  thereby  draw  down  upon  us  the  wrath  of  God  ;  for  his 
Word  says  : — '  And  they  covet  fields,  and  take  them  by  violence ; 
and  houses,  and  take  them  away:  so  they  oppress  a  man  and  his 
house,  even  a  man  and  his  heritage.'  (Micah  ii.  2.)  Ye  have 
thrown  a  cloak  over  the  eyes  of  the  people,  and  led  away  the 
simple  to  the  war.  Ye  have  drawn  away  the  women  from  their 
homes.  Therefore  the  Lord  speaks  these  words : — '  Behold, 
against  this  family  do  I  devise  an  evil,  from  which  ye  shall  not 
remove  your  necks ;  neither  shall  ye  go  haughtily :  for  this  time 

*  At  that  time,  the  Pope,  the  Emperor,  the  French,  the  Spanish,  the  English, 
Venice,  Milan,  Savoy,  canvassed  the  Swiss,  through  their  ambassadors,  for  their 
military  service,  and  poured  their  gold  into  the  country.— Bullinger. 


LABOURS  AS  A  PATRIOT.  4o 

i.s  evil.'  (Micali  ii.  3.)  Those  words  are  clear  enough,  iu  which 
the  prophet  declares  the  iniquity  of  war,  and  the  threatenings  of 
the  wrath  of  God.  Let  each  one  for  liiniself  rellect  on  the  evils 
of  war,  and  think  how  it  would  l)e  with  him  if  he  were  treated  in 
the  manner  in  which  we  use  our  ieilcnv  Christians.  Think,  now 
that  a  foreign  mercenary  came  into  thy  land  with  violence,  laid 
waste  thy  meads,  thy  lields,  thy  vineyards,  drove  off  thy  cattle, 
bound  thy  house-furniture  together  and  carted  it  away,  slew  thy 
son  in  the  attack,  who  would  defend  himself  and  thee,  violated  the 
chastity  of  thy  daughters,  kicked  with  his  feet  the  dear  wife  of 
thy  bosom,  who  went  before  thee,  and  fell  down  at  the  feet  of 
this  foreign  soldier,  begging  mercy  for  thee  and  herself,  dragged 
out  thyself,  pious,  worthy,  old  man,  even  in  thine  own  house  and 
home,  from  the  place  where  thou  wert  crouching  in  fear,  knocked 
thee  dovm  in  presence  of  thy  wife,  despite  her  cries,  and  despite 
thine  ovm  trendjling,  venerable,  pleading  grey  hairs,  and  then  at 
last  set  fire  to  thy  dwelling,  ami  burned  it  to  the  ground  ;  wouldst 
thou  not  think  within  thyself,  if  the  heaven  did  not  open  and 
spit  fire  on  such  villany,  if  the  earth  did  not  yawn  and  swallow 
up  such  monsters,  there  were  no  God  ?  And  yet  thou  doest  all 
this  to  another,  and  callest  it,  forsooth,  the  right  of  war  ! 

"  Those  who,  for  truth,  religion,  justice,  and  native  country, 
venture  their  lives  in  war,  are  true  men,  and  their  canse  is  sacred. 
JJut  as  for  those  blood-thirsty,  mercenary  soldiers,  who  take  the 
field  for  gain,  of  whom  the  world  is  now  full,  and  those  wars 
which  princes  carry  on,  from  day  to  day,  out  of  lust  of  power, 
filling  the  earth  with  bloodshed,  I,  for  my  part,  not  only  cannot 
approve  them,  luit  I  believe  there  is  nothing  more  wicked  and 
criminal,  and  have  the  opinion  that  such  men  desei"ve  to  be 
branded  as  highway  robbers,  and  that  they  are  unworthy  of  the 
name  of  Chi'istians. 

"The  second  danger  that  threatens  us  from  the  foreign  lords  and 
their  wars  is,  that  justice  between  man  and  man  is  stopped ;  as  an 
old  proverb  says,  'AMien  arms  are  up  in  the  hands,  laws  are 
under  the  feet.'  Tlie  term  'right  of  war'  means  nothing  but 
violence,  use  it  as  you  wQl,  turn  it  over  as  you  will.  Yet  it  is 
objected, — force  must  be  employed  to  reduce  the  disobedient, 
if  they  refuse  to  }iel(l  obedience  to  things  lawfid  and  right. 
Yea,  verily,  it  were  good  it  went  Uf)  farther,  and  that  the  thunder- 
bolt of  war  struck  tht-sc  alone,  ami  that  ea(>h  forced  onlv  the  di.s- 


46  LABOURS  AS  A  PATRIOT. 

obedient  to  obedience  in  things  lawful.  But  what  sayest  thou  of 
the  man  who  takes  money  and  helps  a  foreign  master  to  plunder, 
lay  waste,  rob  those  who  have  done  him  no  injury  whatever, 
nay,  who  carries  his  sword  to  such  masters,  whom  it  does  not 
become  to  go  to  war  at  all,  bishops,  popes,  abbots,  and  this,  too, 
for  vile  money  ?  Farther,  the  foreign  lords  do  prejudice  to  the 
cause  of  justice,  in  so  far  that  their  gifts  blind  the  eyes  of  every 
man,  be  he  as  wise  as  you  will,  and  deprive  him  of  his  reason  as 
well  as  of  his  piety ;  as  JNIoses  teaches,  '  A  gift  doth  blind  the  eyes 
of  the  wise,  and  pervert  the  words  of  the  righteous,'  (Deut.  xvi.  19.) 
"  The  third  danger  is,  tliat,  with  foreign  money  and  foreign  wars, 
our  manners  will  become  corrupted  and  debased.  This  we  see 
very  clearly,  for  our  people  have  never  returned  from  the  foreign 
wars  without  bringing  something  new  in  clothes  for  themselves 
and  their  wives,  or  without  importing  home  some  new  extrava- 
gance in  eating  and  drinking,  some  new  oaths  ;  the  bad  they  see 
and  learn  with  readiness,  so  that  we  have  reason  to  fear  if  these 
wars  be  not  desisted  from,  we  shall  be  inundated  with  still  worse 
evils.  The  morality  of  the  women,  too,  is  corrupted.  A  woman 
is  a  weak  creature,  and  desirous  of  new,  handsome  things,  orna- 
ments, fine  clothes,  jewels,  (as  we  see  in  Dinah,  who  went  to 
Sechem  out  of  curiosity,  and  was  there  humbled,)  and  when  such 
like  things  are  made  to  flash  in  their  eyes,  and  offered  to  them, 
think  you  that  they  will  not  be  moved  by  these  things,  and  that 
the  temptation  will  not  be  too  strong  for  them?  It  is  to  be 
feared,  too,  that,  in  time,  the  number  of  the  males  will  be  dimin- 
ished, although,  as  yet,  this  has  been  less  noticeable.  But,  at 
least,  they  are  unmanned  by  luxury.  Now  no  one  will  work  to 
obtam  a  living,  the  lands  are  out  of  cultivation,  and  lie  waste  in 
many  places,  because  labourers  are  not  to  be  got,  although  there 
be  people  enough,  and  a  land  that  could  well  nourish  us  all.  If 
it  bear  not  cinnamon,  ginger,  malmsey,  cloves,  oranges,  silk,  and 
other  such  dainties  for  the  palate,  it  bears  at  least  butter,  milk, 
horses,  sheep,  cattle,  lint,  wine,  and  corn,  and  that  to  the  fuU,  so 
that  w^e  can  rear  a  fine  strong  race  of  men,  and  as  to  what  we 
want  in  our  own  country  we  can  obtain  it  elsewhere  against  our 
own  produce.  That  we  do  not  hold  to  this,  comes  from  the  self- 
ishness that  has  been  introduced  among  us,  and  which  leads  us 
off  from  labour  to  idleness.  And  yet,  to  work  is  noble  ;  it  saves 
from  wantonness  and  vice,  it  yields  good  fruit,  so  that  a  man 


LABOURS  AS  A  PATRIOT.  47 

can  richly  uuuiish  liis  buely  w  ilhuut  care,  and  wilhuut  the  tear 
that  he  sully  himself  with  the  blood  of  the  innocent,  anil  livt;  l)y 
it.     It  makes  the  body,  too,  hale  and  strong,  dissipates  diseases, 
engendered  by  idleness,  and  last  of  all,  fruit  and  increase  follow 
the  hand  of  the  worker,  as  creation  itself  came  from  the  hand  of 
the  all-working  God  at  the  beginning,  so  that,  in  external  things, 
there  is  nothing  in  the  universe  so  like  God  as  the  worker.     It  is 
to  selfishness  we  owe  it,  that  all  our  strength  and  power,  which 
oujiht  to  defend  our  country,  are  consumed  in  the  serv'ice  of  for- 
eign  masters.    Behold  how  unlike  we  are  to  our  ancestors  !   These 
would  not  sufter  foreign  masters  in  their  land,  but  now  we  lead 
them  in  amongst  us  by  the  hand,  if  they  have  but  money,  that 
some  may  get  hold  of  the  money,  while  many  get  the  stripes. 
And  when  a  pious  man  has  brought  up  a  well-doing  son,  then 
come  the  captains  and  steal  him  away,  and  he  must  expose  him- 
self to  the  danger  of  dying  of  hunger,  disease,  murder,  shot,  or 
wounds.      And  if  he  reckon  up  his  bargained  money,  he  will 
find  he  could  have  won  more  by  thrashing,  without  speaking  of 
his  being  run  through  the  body  with  a  spear  ere  the  account 
comes  to  be  paid ;  and  last  of  all,  his  poor  old  father  that  brought 
him  up,  and  whom  he  should  have  maintained  in  his  old  age,  is 
reduced  to  cany  the  beggar's  staff.     But  those  who  get  the  money 
want  for  nothing.     They  force  us  into  alliances  with  foreign  mas- 
ters, but  only  after  they  themselves  have  been  bought  over  by 
heavy  bribes.     And,  when  it  comes  to  loss,  your  neighbour  or 
your  neighliour's  son  must  bear  it,  while  they  come  off  scot  free. 
And  although  it  stands  in  the  conditions,  that  none  is  to  be  forced, 
yet  recruiting  parties  spread  themselves  over  the  whole  land,  and 
then  it  is  seen  what  young  blood  will  do  w^hen  it  is  up.     And 
with  the  remuneration,  it  is  to  be  taken  into  account  that  those 
who  get  the  largest  bribes  conceal  them,  but  these  li^'ing  in  riot 
and  expense,  another,  who  thinks  he  cannot  be  less  than  they, 
goes  to  the  like  expense.      And  if  he  cannot  afford  this,  then  he 
is  at  the  mercy  of  the  briber,  who  at  last  takes  his  \4neyard,  fields, 
and  meadows.     Then  he  helps  him  to  a  small  p(>nsion,  on  which 
he  cannot  live,  and  so,  having  lost  his  all,  he  nuist  in  the  end 
face  war  and  wounds  for  a  wretched  pay.     In  this  manner  we 
lose  our  best  sons,  who,  for  vile  money,  are  consumed  in  a  foreign 
land.     But  few,  indeed,  become  rich,  but  these  so  rich  that  they 
might  buy  off  the  rest. 


4-8  LABOUES  AS  A  PATKIOT. 

"  The  fourth  danger  is,  that  the  gifts  of  the  foreign  lords  breetl 
hatred  and  distrust  among  us.  The  Ahnighty  granted  to  our 
ancestors  grace  and  favour  in  His  sight,  so  that  they  freed  them- 
selves from  a  tyrannous  nobility,  and  lived  in  concord  with  one 
another.  They  prospered ;  while  right  and  justice  were  so  well 
administered  in  this  land,  that  all  who  were  oppressed  in  foreign 
countries  fled  hither,  as  to  an  asylum  of  safety.  Then  fear  seized 
the  hearts  of  the  princes,  ^^'ho  would  not  themselves  act  justly, 
and  who  yet  stood  in  awe  of  our  bold  and  unflinching  attitude. 
But  seeing  that  the  Lord  was  strong  on  our  side,  so  that  they 
coiild  not  overcome  us  by  force,  they  seduced  us  by  the  bait  of 
bribes,  and  reduced  us  by  enslaving  us  first  to  selfishness.  They 
laid  their  schemes,  and  considered  that  if  one  of  us  were  to  see  a 
friend  or  a  neighbour  suddenly  growing  rich,  without  any  trade 
or  profession,  and  living  at  his  ease  in  riches,  he  too  would  be 
stirred  up,  in  order  that  he  might  dress  finely,  live  in  idleness, 
carousing,  and  wantonness,  like  his  neighbour,  to  hunt  after 
riches  (for  all  men  incline  naturally  against  work  and  towards 
idleness),  and  that,  if  the  like  riches  were  not  vouchsafed  to  him, 
that  he  would  join  himself  to  the  ranks  of  their  opponents; 
that  in  this  manner  disunion  would  be  created,  so  that  father 
should  be  against  son,  brother  against  brother,  friend  against 
friend,  neighbour  against  neighbour,  and  then  that  the  kingdom, 
as  the  Son  of  God  himself  says,  thus  divided  against  itself,  would 
not  stand,  and  there  would  be  an  end  of  the  Confederacy.  This 
was  what  they  calculated  upon.  Envy  is  the  natural  accompani- 
ment of  prosperity,  so  that  where  there  is  good  fortune  there  is 
also  ill-will.  How  much,  then,  must  envy  and  hatred  be  stirred 
up,  when  one  member  of  the  community  is  so  far  privileged  above 
the  other  as  I  have  described?  But  when  the  hour  of  danger 
arrives,  is  not  one  true  man  as  good  as  another?  nay,  do  not 
the  poor  often  fight  for  their  country  with  more  bravery  and 
resolution  than  the  rich  ?  Out  of  such  envy,  then,  springs  the 
disunion  and  ill-will  of  those  who  say,  '  Go  thou  foi^ard;  do  this 
and  that;  thou  hast  taken  more  money,  take  also  more  blows.' 
Do  ye  not  perceive  that  the  counsel  of  these  foreign  masters  has 
answered  well  the  end  they  had  in  view,  at  least  in  part  ?  The 
seeds  of  selfishness  have  been  sown  in  the  land,  and  discord  is 
the  crop.     Therefore  the  great  love  that  from  childhood  I  have 


LAIU)U1{S  AS  A  J'ATJMOT.  49 

borne  to  my  native  euuntrv,  compels  me  to  make  my  cares  in 
regard  to  tliis  its  state  known,  lest  greater  mischief  befall  us, 
and  that  we  may  return  from  our  folly  while  this  is  possible,  and 
before  the  evil  Ijecome  altitgether  incurable.  If  not,  there  is 
ground  to  fear  that  the  lords  whom  we  beat  with  iron  and  hal- 
bert,  will  vanquish  us  ^vith  the  touch  of  gold. 

"  And  if  any  one  should  inquire,  How  are  we  to  deliver  our- 
selves from  these  evils,  and  return  again  to  union?  I  answer,  By 
•nbstaining  from  selfishness.  For,  if  this  base  passion  did  not 
reign  among  us,  the  Confederacy  were  more  a  union  of  brothers 
than  of  confederates.  If  one  rejoins  to  this,  Selfishness  is  im- 
planted in  the  human  heart,  from  whence  it  cannot  be  emdicated, 
for  God  alone  can  know  and  change  the  heart;  then  I  answer: 
Do  earnestly  that  which  lies  in  your  power.  Where  you  find  it 
punishable,  punish  it,  and  let  it  not  grow.  And  that  it  may  be 
extirpated  out  of  the  very  hearts  of  men,  give  heed  that  the 
divine  word  be  faithfully  preached.  For  where  God  is  not  iu 
the  heart,  there  is  nothing  but  the  man  himself  Where  there  is 
nothing  but  the  man  himself,  he  cares  for  nothing  but  that  which 
serves  to  his  interests,  pleasures,  and  lusts.  But  when  God  pos- 
sesses the  heart,  then  man  has  regard  to  that  which  pleases  God, 
seeks  the  honour  of  (iod,  and  the  protit  of  his  fellow  man.  Now, 
the  knowledge  of  God  can  come  to  us  in  no  way  clearer  than 
from  the  A\'oi-d  of  God.  Will  you,  then,  have  the  knowledge  of 
God  spreatl  among  you,  so  that  you  may  live  in  peace,  and  in 
the  fear  of  God  ?  then  see  to  it  that  the  W^ord  of  God  is  purely 
preached,  according  to  its  natural  sense,  unadulterated  by  the 
glosses  and  inventions  of  man." 

Thus  Zwingli  saw  in  the  preaching  of  the  Word  the  only 
remedy  for  the  distractions  of  his  countiy.  ^Manfully,  with  this 
two-edged  sword  of  the  Spirit,  he  fought  against  the  alliances  with 
foreign  princes,  and  against  those  mercenary  wars,  from  which  all 
the  evils  under  which  his  native  countr}'  groaned  arose.  Zwingli's 
position  and  liLs  laboui-s  in  ])ehalf  of  his  native  country  at  this 
juncture,  resemble  those  of  the  prophets  under  the  Old  Testament 
dispensation,  who  lifted  up  their  voices  in  great  emergencies,  and 
thundered  against  declensions  in  Israel  lliough  lus  counsels 
were  not  always  followed,  he  yet  accom])lished  great  things  by  the 
celestial  weapon  he  wielded  with  such  power. 

D 


oO  LABOUES  AS  A  PATEIOT. 

Shortly  after  lie  commenced  his  labours  at  Zurich,  the  impe- 
rial throne  of  Germany  fell  to  be  filled  up  by  election,  through 
the  death  of  the  emperor,  Maximilian  I.  Two  foreign  potentates, 
Charles  I.  of  Spain  and  Francis  I.  of  France,  set  all  the  machinery 
of  bribery  and  intrigue  at  work  to  obtain  for  themselves  this  high 
dignity.  The  Confederates,  instigated  by  the  untiring  Cardinal 
Schinner,  mixed  themselves  up  in  the  election,  and  sent  a  letter 
to  the  electors,  advising  them  to  choose  Charles.  Zwingli,  how- 
ever, was  opposed  to  any  interference  on  the  part  of  Switzerland 
in  this  matter,  and  saw  with  prophetic  glance  the  dangers  to  the 
cause  of  the  Gospel  that  must  arise  from  the  election  of  Charles  I. 
"  Charles,"  said  he,  "  is  a  young  prince ;  the  Spaniards  a  people 
ambitious  of  conquest,  restless,  proud.  The  Germans  have  no 
need  to  call  from  the  distance  so  mighty  a  prince  to  reign  over 
them,  and  thus  recklessly  put  their  necks  under  a  foreign  yoke." 
He  believed  that  this  prince  would  be  bold  enough  to  subject 
the  whole  German  people  under  some  specious  pretext  or  another, 
and  to  deprive  them  of  the  Word  of  God.  How  rightly  he  fore- 
saw the  danger,  the  result  shewed. 

Just  as  determined  was  he  against  using  any  influence  in 
favour  of  Francis.  This  young  warlike  monarch  sought  to  con- 
clude a  new  treaty  with  the  Swiss,  according  to  which  the  Swiss 
youth  were  to  enter  his  service  against  the  pope  and  emperor. 
This  treaty  was  presented  to  the  acceptance  of  the  Swiss  people 
in  the  usual  corrupt  fashion,  namely,  by  the  bribing  of  influen- 
tial individuals  in  a  canton,  which  process  was  so  successful 
that  canton  after  canton  joined  the  French  alliance.  Only  Zurich 
this  time  made  an  exception.  In  this  canton  a  new  power  had 
arisen,  the  preaching  of  the  Word  of  God,  which  baflled  French 
intrigue,  and  disappomted  French  bribery.  Zwingli's  sermons, 
among  the  majority  of  the  council  and  the  people  generally,  had 
awakened  the  conscience,  and  roused  a  new  descrijDtion  of 
patriotism,  a  patriotism  that  drew  its  nourishment  and  strength 
from  the  Word  of  God,  and  now  celebrated  a  glorious  victory 
over  a  selfishness  and  a  profligacy  that  leant  themselves  on  the 
arm  of  foreign  power.  The  Council,  in  a  letter  which  they 
addressed  to  the  peasantry,  and  which  wholly  breathed  the  mind 
of  Zwingli,  and  probably  came  from  his  pen,  inquh^ed  what  their 
views  were  on  the  subject.     One  voice  answered  from  the  whole 


LABOURS  AS  A  I'ATItlOT.  51 

ranton  ;  tlu;  govenuuent  slmiild,  ai'OoiiUiiL!;  to  (he  iniiicipli's  ol' 
their  Ibrefathers,  have  nothing  to  do  with  foreign  lords. 

Putting  their  whole  confidence  in  God,  the  government  of 
Zurich  resolved  to  abstain  from  entering  into  tlie  alliance  with 
Frjuice,  and  they  thereliy  drew  upon  themselves,  and  especially  on 
Zwingli,  who  was  with  justice  looked  upon  as  the  prime  author 
of  this  resolution,  the  hatred  and  vituperation  of  the  other  can- 
tons, and  of  all  the  venal  who  were  inclined  to  the  f(jreign  mili- 
tary service,  hoth  in  and  out  of  Zurich.  This  enmity  was 
increased  by  the  following  circumstance.  In  the  summer  of 
1521,  the  Pope  desired,  through  Cardinal  Schinner,  the  aivl  of 
Swiss  troops,  ostensibly  for  the  defence  of  the  States  of  the  Church, 
(to  which  the  Confederates  had  bound  themselves  by  the  papal 
alliance  of  1515),  but  really  in  combination  with  the  Emperor,  to 
drive  the  French  out  of  Upper  Italy.  The  other  cantons  refused 
to  accede  to  the  papal  request;  Zurich,  however,  after  receiving 
from  the  Cardinal  the  assurance  that  the  troops  would  only  be 
employed  in  the  defence  of  the  States  of  the  Church,  believed 
itself  bound  to  grant  the  required  aid,  although  Zwingli  spoke 
strongly  against  it.  "  What,"  said  he,  "  a  people  have  once  pro- 
mised to  do,  they  are  bound  to  perform ;  but  if  God  shows  a  way 
of  escape  from  an  alliance,  they  are  at  liberty  to  avail  themselves 
of  it,  and  take  care  not  to  enter  into  such  again."  Zwingli 
believed  this  way  of  escape  existed,  because  the  Cardinal  had  em- 
ployed intriguing  and  briber}^  to  gain  his  end,  which  in  the  treaty 
were  expressly  forbidden.  "I  would,"  said  he,  "that  the  papal 
treafy-  had  had  a  hole  burnt  in  it,  and  the  papal  legate  were  bound 
on  a  board  with  his  back  to  it,  and  carried  home.  If  a  wolf 
comes  into  a  land,  every  one  is  up  to  kill  the  beast,  or  to  drive 
it  away ;  but  against  the  wolves  that  devour  the  people  no  man 
will  tight."  "They  (the  Eomish  Cardinals),  are  very  properly 
dressed  in  red  caps  and  mantles ;  for,  if  be  they  shaken,  then  out 
drop  ducats  and  crowns ;  but  if  they  be  wrung,  then  out  flows 
the  blood  of  thy  son,  brother,  father,  and  friend.'  Zwingli's 
warning  was  this  time  baulked  of  its  effect  through  the  cunning 
of  the  legate.  Tlie  latter  was  of  opinion;  the  affair  must  be 
precipitated  before  the  pai-son  (Zwingli)  came  again  into  the 
pulpit.  Tlie  Zurichei-s  marched  to  the  assistance  of  the  Pope, 
the  other  Confederates  marched  to  that  of  tlie  King  of  France. 


52  REFOEMATION  OF  ECCLESIASTICAL  ABUSES. 

The  French  and  the  Confederates  were  beaten  by  the  united 
papal  and  imperial  army,  but  without  the  co-operation  of  the 
Zurichers.  In  this  defeat  there  was  a  new  ground  of  animosity 
against  Zurich  and  against  Zwingli,  although  he  had  spoken 
against  the  expedition.  At  the  instance  of  Zwingli,  clergy  and 
laity,  magistrates  and  citizens,  were  brought  to  take  an  oath 
from  henceforward  to  accept  no  longer  presents,  gifts,  or  annui- 
ties, from  foreign  princes.  He  himself,  in  1520,  in  a  letter  under 
his  own  hand,  resigned  his  yearly  sum  he  had  been  in  the  habit 
of  drawing,  although  at  that  very  time  he  was  in  very  straitened 
circumstances,  owing  to  the  smallness  of  the  income  he  derived 
from  his  living. 

Thus  Zwingli  succeeded,  by  the  power  of  the  Word  of  God, 
in  freeing  Zurich  from  the  fetters  of  selfishness  and  foreign  influ- 
ence, which  pressed  on  the  energies  of  the  people,  and  in  reviving 
that  confidence  in  God  which  had  once  animated  Switzerland. 
Wliat  zeal  inspired  him  in  this  work,  the  following  words  shew: 
"  After  I  had  seen  that  God  prevailed  by  His  Word,  and  disposed 
the  minds  of  men  to  peace,  I  would  indeed  have  acted  foully  by 
the  good  people,  had  I  not  perseveringly  pressed  for  peace,  and  a 
Christian  life  and  walk,  seeing  so  clearly  as  I  did,  the  good  work 
daily  increasing  before  my  eyes.  AVliatever  lies  may  be  told,  the 
sole  cause  of  the  abolition  of  mercenary  service  under  foreign 
princes  in  the  canton  of  Zurich,  in  town  and  country,  was  the 
Word  of  God." 

3.  Z  WING  Li's  Labours  in  the  Reformation  op  Ecclesiastical 

Abuses. 

The  like  manly  zeal  and  resolution,  restrained  by  moderation, 
and  softened  by  tenderness,  which  Zwingli  manifested  in  the 
preaching  of  the  gospel,  he  shewed  also  in  his  laliours  to  reform 
the  abuses  that  prevailed  in  the  Church.  He  regarded  himself, 
from  a  very  early  period,  as  an  instrument  in  the  hand  of  God, 
who  was  never,  except  at  an  intimation  or  call  from  Him,  to  step 
in,  and  who  must  not  prematurely,  according  to  his  own  ideas, 
precipitate  the  work  of  God.  "  God  knows,"  are  his  words,  "  what 
time  is  the  fittest  for  every  affair  and  for  eveiy  undertaking. 
He  demands  from  thee  labour  and  industry,  He  himself  working, 


REFORMATION  OF  ECCLESIASTICAL  ABUSES.  o3 

and  bringing  all  to  pass.  Seek  thou  only  to  advance  His  glory, 
and  thou  wilt  not  fail  in  thy  object.  God  humbles  us,  and  exer- 
cises us,  accomplishing  all  things,  according  to  His  own,  and  not 
according  to  our  will." 

God  had  endowed  Zwingli  with  all  the  gifts  that  were  neces- 
sary to  successful  operation.  He  was  a  true  Christian,  and  a  true 
Republican.  The  equality  of  all  men  was  not  with  him  an  empty 
sound  ;  it  was  indelibly  engraved  on  the  tablets  of  his  heart,  and 
from  thence  transcribed  into  his  life.  He  Iiad  neither  the  phari- 
saical  hauteur,  nor  the  monhish  acerbity,  equally  distasteful  to 
poor  and  rich.  One  felt  himself  drawn  io  him  and  eagerly  en- 
joyed his  conversation.  He  was  powerful  in  tlie  pulpit,  friendly 
towards  all  whom  he  met  in  the  streets  or  the  market-jtlace  ; 
often  lie  sat  down  in  the  inns  in  which  the  guilds  assendjlcd, 
where  he  might  be  seen  explaining  to  the  citizens  the  chief  points 
of  Christian  doctrine,  or  entering  into  fann'liar  conversation  with 
them.  Peasants  and  patricians  were  alike  to  him.  One  of  his  bit- 
terest enemies  reports  of  him :  '•  He  invited  the  country  folk  to  his 
table,  went  abr)ut  walking  with  them,  spoke  to  them  of  God,  made 
the  devil  go  into  tlieir  hearts,  and  his  writings  into  their  pockets. 
He  even  induced  the  Council  itself  to  wait  upon  these  peasants ; 
they  pledged  them,  went  about  the  town  with  them  and  .shewed 
them  attention.  Thus  Zwingli's  popularity  increased  ;  one  day 
found  him  at  the  poor  man's  board,  another  at  the  banquet  of  the 
rich,  as  was  the  practice  of  the  Lord  himself,  and  by  such  means 
as  these  he  succeeded  in  accomplishing  the  work  to  which  God 
had  called  him."* 

An  o})portunity  soon  presented  itself  for  his  interference  against 
a  dreadfid  abuse  which  Mas  practised  in  name  of  the  Head  of  the 
Church.  The  notorious  absolution-monger,  Samson,  after  having 
driven  a  prosperous  trade  on  a  journey  through  Lucerne,  Berne, 
and  Baden,  with  liis  nefarious  wares,  came  now  to  Zurich,  in  order 
there  to  dispoi^e  of  liis  letters  of  al)Solution  with  his  accustomed 
impudence.  This  shameless  Italian  monk  already  met  at  Brem- 
garten  with  an  opposition  which  he  had  not  expected.  The  Dean, 
Hemy  Bullinger,  father  of  tlie  celebi-ited  historian,  aiul  Zwingli's 
succes.sor  at  Zurich,  opposed  the  monk,  and  refused  to  allow  him 
to  offer  his  wares  in  the  church  of  Bremgarten,  on  the  ground 

*  Merle  (rAiibi^ne"?  Ili.-tMrv  of  tlio  Refonnatioii. 


54  REFORMATION  OF  ECCLESIASTICAL  ABUSES. 

that  the  papal  letter  v/hicli  granted  hmi  the  full  power  to  sell 
indulgences,  and  which  Samson,  in  the  carrying  on  of  his  trade, 
carried  about  with  him,  and  liy  opportunity  shewed,  had  not 
been  attested  by  the  Bishop  of  Constance.  Furious  at  this  oppo- 
sition, the  monk  called  the  Dean  a  beast,  and  excommunicated 
him.  Both  now  hastened  to  Zurich,  the  Dean  to  accuse  before 
the  Diet  there  the  monk,  the  monk  to  accuse  the  Dean,  and  at 
the  same  time  to  cany  on  his  sale  of  indulgences  in  the  town. 
Bullinger  met  with  a  friendly  reception  in  Zurich,  and  especially 
from  Zwingli,  who  told  him  he  had  done  quite  right  in  resisting 
the  monk,  and  need  not  be  the  least  uneasy  as  to  the  result.  In 
the  pulpit  the  Leut^priest  of  the  Minster  attacked  without  mercy 
the  degrading  imposition  and  trick  of  indulgences,  and  he  proved 
that  here  the  prediction  of  Peter  in  the  second  chapter  of  his  second 
epistle  was  fulfilled :  "there  shall  be  false  teachers  among  you,  who 
privily  shall  bring  in  damnable  heresies,  even  denying  the  Lord  that 
bought  them,  and  bring  upon  themselves  swift  destruction,  (v.  1.) 
And  through  covetousness  shall  they  with  feigned  words  make 
merchandise  of  you:  whose  judgment  now  of  a  longtime  lingereth 
not,  and  their  damnation  slumbereth  not,"  (v.  3).  Accordingly, 
when  Samson,  in  February  1519,  was  on  the  point  of  making  his 
entrance  on  horseback  into  the  town,  after  boastincj,  that  althousrh 
he  well  knew  that  Zwingli  would  preach  against  him,  he  would 
yet  soon  stop  his  mouth,  an  order  came  to  him  from  the  deputies 
of  the  Council,  that  he  must  not  enter  the  town,  nor  sell  there 
his  indulgences,  for,  says  Bullinger,  people  in  Zurich  began  now 
to  see  through  Romish  knavery.  Nay,  in  the  Council  a  motion 
was  made,  in  accordance  with  a  law  against  Romish  intruders, 
still  in  force,  to  seize  him  by  the  collar,  and  throw  him  into  the 
water.  Upon  a  pretence  of  Samson's,  that  he  had  a  communica- 
tion in  name  of  the  Pope  to  make  to  the  assembled  Diet,  he  was 
admitted  before  them,  luit  the  Diet,  perceiving  his  sole  intention 
was  to  speak  on  the  sale  of  indulgences,  commanded  him  silence. 
From  the  same  public  seirants  he  received  injunctions,  foi'thwith 
and  without  recompence,  to  remove  the  excommunication  which 
he  had  pronounced  on  the  Dean  Bullinger,  and  having  done  so, 
without  a  moment's  delay  to  leave  Switzerland.  The  monk 
obeyed,  and  set  off  in  a  vehicle,  drawn  by  three  horses,  on  his 
journey  across  the  Alps,  carrying  with  liim  the  ill-gotten  gains 


REFOEMATTON  OF  ECCLESIASTICAL  ABUSES.  oo 

of  which  he  had  swiiulU-il  the  poor  Swiss.  Towards  the  o1)taiu- 
ing  of  this  victory  over  Koiuish  iiisokaice,  the  Geiicral-Yicar 
Faber  of  Constance  had  likewise  used  his  iutluence,  who  saw 
episcopal  respect  and  dignity  compromised  l)y  these  lioniish  in- 
truders. He  expressed  liis  thanks  to  Zwiugli  f(n-  the  vigour  and 
resolution  he  had  shewn  on  this  occasion,  and  begged  of  him  that 
he  would  be  pleased  to  make  greater  cLaims  on  his  friendship 
than  he  had  hitherto  done.  Zwingli  employed  these  advances  of 
his  university-friend  to  impress  upon  his  heart  the  duty  of  recom- 
mending, or  at  lea.st  of  allowing,  the  free  preaching  of  the  Gospel 
in  the  bishopric  of  Constiuice.  lUit  to  such  counsels  and  peti- 
tions the  dignitaries  of  the  Church  leant  no  willing  ear.  With 
redoubled  zeal  Zwingli  directed  his  efforts  within  Zurich  itself, 
that  the  pure  word  of  God  might  be  sounded  fi'om  all  the  pulpits 
of  the  land. 

We  liave  already  seen  that  the  Council,  as  early  as  the  year 
1520,  had  been  induced,  by  Zwingli's  faithful  preaching,  to  issue 
orders,  in  town  and  country,  that  the  gospel  be  purely  preached. 
How^ever,  it  w^as  easier  to  issue  such  instructions  than  to  get  them 
carried  into  effect.  A  violent  opposition  was  excited  among  tlie 
numerous  monks  who  inhabited  the  three  monasteries  in  the 
town.  How  were  they  to  jjreach  the  Word  of  God  who  were 
entu-ely  ignorant  of  it,  and,  moreover,  who  held  doctrines  and 
sentrments  in  diametrical  opposition  to  it  ?  How  could  they  give 
up  Tliomas  and  Scotus,  from  whom  they  derived  their  whole 
standing,  as  men  of  education  and  learning  ;  how  the  legends  and 
fables  that  were  the  sources  of  their  greatest  gain  ?  Small  as  was 
the  esteem  which  these  monks,  on  account  of  their  licentious 
morals  and  gross  ignorance,  enjoyed  in  the  eyes  of  all  men  of 
true  piety  and  sense,  they  were  yet  not  destitute  of  powerful  con- 
nections and  influence.  Several  members  of  the  Council,  who,  as 
supporters  and  friends  of  the  foreign  merccnaiy  service,  or  who, 
as  men  of  loose  morals,  disliked  the  bold  and  foitliful  preacher  at 
the  Minster,  were  wont,  morning  and  eveidng,  to  visit  the  clois- 
tere,  and  hold  there  their  carousals.  On  such  occasions,  one 
stirred  up  the  other  to  opposition  against  the  preaching  of  the 
Word  of  (iod,  and  they  hatched  the  darkest  designs  against  its 
fiiithful  i)reacher.  The  monks  and  their  patnuis  caused  it  to  Ik- 
widely  publi.shcd  that  disunif>n  and  strife  would  afHict  the  state 


o6  EEFORMATION  OF  ECCLESIASTICAL  ABUSES. 

if  Zwingli  were  not  forbidden  to  preach  against  them.  Having, 
as  they  thought,  made  themselves  secure  of  the  result,  they 
brought  the  matter  before  the  Council,  and  it  was  determined  by 
a  majority  that,  for  the  future,  the  monks  were  not  to  be  preached 
against.  "Thereon,"  says  Bullinger,  "the  Council-hall  gave  a 
loud  crash."  Councillors  were  horror-struck,  and  the  meeting 
was  suddenly  dissolved.  A  violent  contest  was  now  carried  on 
from  the  pulpits  between  the  proclaimers  of  the  message  of  God 
and  the  defenders  of  human  traditions.  The  Council  named  a 
committee,  consisting  of  the  clergy  of  the  town,  the  reading-mas- 
ters and  preachers  of  the  cloisters,  to  meet  in  the  provost's  house, 
and  here,  after  many  high  words  had  passed  between  the  parties, 
they  were  exhorted  by  the  Burgomaster  to  preach  nothing  which 
might  cause  any  disturbance  of  peace  and  unity.  "  Zwingli,"  how- 
ever, declared,  "  I  cannot  accept  this  command  ;  I  will  preach  the 
gospel,  free  and  without  limitation,  as  was  formerly  resolved 
upon.  I  am  bishop  and  parson  in  Zurich  ;  to  me  the  cure  of 
souls  is  entrusted.  I,  not  the  monks,  have  taken  the  oath.  They 
must  yield  and  not  I.  If  they  preach  lies,  I  will  come  up  to 
the  very  pulpits  of  their  own  cloisters  and  contradict  them.  I, 
for  my  part,  if  I  preach  anything  contrary  to  the  holy  gospel,  am 
willing  to  subject  myself  to  the  censure  of  the  Chapter,  nay,  of 
every  citizen,  and  let  myseK  be  punished  for  it."  This  decided 
tone  was  not  without  effect.  The  monks  continued  to  claim  for 
themselves  the  right  of  preaching  Thomas  and  Scotus,  but  the 
committee  of  the  Council  decided  that  the  gospel  should  he  preached, 
for  Thomas  and  Scotus,  and  the  other  doctors  were  of  no  weight. 
Nay,  the  Council  went  farther,  and  granted  permission  to  Zwin- 
gli and  his  friends  to  preach  the  gospel  likewise  in  the  churches 
of  the  nunneries,  where  hitherto  only  the  monks  of  the  order 
were  allowed  to  preach.     Truth  had  thus  again  conquered. 

But  the  enemies  of  the  gospel  in  Zurich  sought  and  found 
support  and  encouragement  without  the  bounds  of  the  canton. 
The  friends  of  mercenary  service  leant  on  the  Diet,  where  the 
majority  was  devoted  to  the  system  of  foreign  service  and  pen- 
sions ;  the  monks  turned  their  eyes  to  the  Bishop  of  Constance 
and  his  General- Vicar  Faber.  This  man  began  now  to  develo]> 
his  real  character,  and  by  the  side  of  Eck  to  combat  the  preach- 
ing of  the  Word  of  God,  and  to  employ  against  it  all  the  means 


KEF(.)KJMAT10K  OF  ECCLESIASTICAL  ABUSES.  o7 

of  i)ersecutioii  vvitliin  liis  jiower.  To  this  cliange  in  his  .scnti- 
iiK'iits  and  course  of  proccduie  a  journey  to  Ivonie  had  reniarkahly 
contributed,  which  he  made  ostensibly  in  the  commission  of  the 
bishop.  John  Eck  had  formerly  gone  to  Kome  to  operate  with 
the  Pope  against  Luther,  and  had  received  from  his  Holiness  700 
ducats  for  travelling  expenses.  Fab(;r  at  first  ridiculed  Eck  for 
the  step  he  had  taken,  but  soon  he  too  coveted  the  wages  of 
unrighteousness,  and  also  set  off  to  Rome.  Upon  this  Profes- 
sor Egentius  of  Freiljurg  (in  Breisgau)  wrote, — "  I  begin  to  be 
suspicious  of  Faber  ;  he  is  a  man  in  his  best  years,  and  has  great 
wants.  Accordingly,  he  is  also  gone  to  Rome,  to  dedicate,  as  it 
is  said,  a  book  to  the  Pope  against  Luther,  for  he  has  received  a 
hint  of  his  Holiness'  liberality  to  Eck.  If  he  should  come  back 
from  the  seat  of  all  evil,  we  shall  all,  doubtless,  have  to  fall  down 
and  witrship  the  gulden  image."  Zwiiigli  wrote  in  reference  to 
the  intluence  Avhich  this  journey  had  on  Faber, — "  It  appears  to 
me  Faber  has  unlearned  at  Rome  all  that  he  formerly  knew  of 
Christianity. '  The  vicar's  converj^ion  infected  also  his  bishop. 
"  Although  the  lUshop,"  says  Voegeli,  (a  contemporary,  and  author 
of  the  History  of  the  Reformation  at  Constance,)  "  was,  at  first, 
not  disinclined  to  the  gospel,  yet  his  vicar,  after  his  return  from 
Rome,  put  other  thoughts  in  his  head,  and  made  him  very  averse 
to  it."  Yet  eagerly  as  they  watched  the  development  of  events 
at  Zurich,  and  willingly  as  they  lent  an  ear  to  the  reports  and 
complaints  of  the  monks  there,  they  durst  not  follow  their  own 
counsel  against  the  preacher  of  truth.  They  knew  his  w^ondrous 
j)0wer  over  the  minds  of  the  people,  the  great  esteem  in  which  he 
was  held,  and  his  amazing  popidarity.  These  things  held  them 
in  check.  His  temperate  although  firm  demeanour,  at  the  same 
time  afforded  no  ground  to  justif}'  interference.  He  was  faitliful 
in  the  discharge  of  all  the  duties  of  his  office,  he  jn-ecipitated 
nothing,  but  awaited  the  sure  operatif)n  of  the  Word  of  CJod,  pro- 
claimed with  a  full  and  living  conviction,  to  produce  through  the 
renovation  of  the  heart  that  tnie  reformation  in  things  external 
which  he  longed  for.  At  length  an  event,  in  the  beginning  of 
the  year  ].)22,  gave  the  bishop  and  liis  vicar  the  opi»ortunity 
they  desired  of  openly  interfering  against  ZwinglL 

Zwingli  took  occasion  to  maintain,  in  expounding  from  th(' 
i\h  chapti'r  of  the  l.st  Papistic  tn  Tiiiiotliy.  verses  l-.r  that  i'a.sts 


"58  EEFORMATION  OF  ECCLESIASTICAL  ABUSES. 

appointed  by  the  Church,  in  which  certain  meats  were  forbidden 
to  be  eaten  at  certain  times,  a  release  from  which  could  only  be 
obtained  by  donations  to  the  Church,  had  no  foundation  in  the 
Word  of  God,  but  were  directly  contrary  to  it.  Instructed  by 
these  discourses  of  Zwinsrli,  some  of  the  citizens  and  inhabitants 
of  Zurich  allowed  themselves  the  liberty  of  eating  butcher-meat 
at  the  fast-season.  These  were  in  part  sober,  worthy  men,  such 
as  Christoffel  Froschauer,  the  printer,  a  Bavarian,  who  partook  of 
this  diet  quietly  without  ostentation,  and  purely  out  of  convic- 
tion that  it  was  no  sin,  and  as  a  matter  of  necessity  to  strengthen 
him  for  the  duties  of  a  rather  laborious  calling.  Others,  however, 
such  as  the  expelled  priest  from  Basle,  William  Eoubli,  did  it  in 
sheer  wantonness,  and  with  much  vaunting  and  boasting,  and  in 
order  to  make  an  open  break  with  ecclesiastical  customs  and 
institutions.  Zwingii  approved  of  the  conduct  of  the  former 
class  of  fast-transgressors,  but  severely  blamed  that  of  the  latter. 
Upon  this  the  monks  and  the  war-party  raised  a  great  outcry 
against  the  faithful  preacher  of  the  Word,  alleging  that  he  was 
undermining  the  established  order  in  church  and  state.  The 
war-party  were  deeply  offended  by  the  following  passage  in 
Zwingli's  discourse, — "  Many  think  that  to  eat  flesh  is  improper, 
nay,  a  sin,  although  God  has  nowhere  forbidden  it ;  but  to  sell 
human  flesh  for  slaughter  and  carnage  they  hold  to  be  no  sin  at 
all."  The  Council  of  Zurich  made  an  inquiry  into  the  infraction 
of  the  fast-laws,  and  called  the  delinquents  before  them.  Chris- 
toffel Froschauer  defended  himself  with  propriety  of  demeanour, 
and,  along  with  his  associates,  was  dismissed  with  an  exhortation 
and  a  reproof  This  result  gave  no  satisfaction  to  the  enemies  of 
Zwingii,  whose  object  was  to  silence  the  preacher  of  the  truth. 

On  the  7th  of  April  1522  there  came  a  delegation  to  Zurich 
from  the  Bishop  of  Constance,  consisting  of  his  suffragan  Mel- 
chior  Bottli,  Dr.  Brendli,  and  the  cathedral-preacher  John  Wan- 
ner, a  man  of  evangelical  opinions,  to  act  in  this  affair  in  the 
name  of  the  bishop.  The  whole  clergy  of  Zurich  were  summoned 
the  next  morning  into  the  hall  of  the  chapter.  Here  the  suffra- 
gan-bishop spoke  in  a  very  excited,  violent,  and  haughty  man- 
ner, but  without  mentioning  Zwingli's  name  in  his  speech, 
although  the  whole  of  it  liad  reference  to  him  alone.  As  soon 
as  he  had  ended  Zwingii  arose,  conceiving  it  to  be  unworthy  of 


REFORMATION  OF  ECCLESIASTICAL  ABUSES.  ")i) 

him  and  pusillanimous  not  to  answer  a  si)eeoh  which  might 
have  pernicious  consequences,  and  tlie  more  so,  from  the  evident 
impression  it  made  upon  part  of  the  audience,  whicli  impression 
manifested  itself  in  the  sighs  and  pale  cheeks  of  certain  priests 
who  had  been  lately  won  over  to  the  Gospel,  but  were  not  very 
securely  anchored  in  it,  "  Pithily  and  bluntly  I  answered  the 
suffragan,"  he  relates  himseK,  "  in  what  sense  and  spirit  let  those 
worthy  men  judge  who  heard  me  that  day.  The  suffragan  let 
go  this  wing,  as  if  he  had  been  beaten  and  put  to  flight,  and 
hastened  to  another  battle-field,  to  the  town-hall  namely,  where 
he,  as  I  heard  from  some  of  the  councillors  themselves,  gave  vent 
to  the  very  same  language  against  me,  without,  however,  naming 
me,  saying,  and  this  he  said  that  I  might  not  be  called  l)efore  them, 
he  had  nothing  to  do  with  me."  The  majority  of  the  Little  Council 
of  Zurich  then  was  composed  of  the  enemies  of  the  Gospel;  that 
of  the  Great  Council  consisted  of  its  friends.  Zwingli's  friends 
prevailed  in  getting  the  matter  brought  before  the  Great  Council 
on  the  folloAving  day,  but  his  enemies,  in  giving  their  consent  to 
this,  annexed  the  condition  that  the  Leut-priests  should  not  be 
admitted,  as  the  matter  did  not  concern  them,  and  an  incaptious 
address,  void  of  all  personality,  did  not  recpiire  either  answer  or 
contradiction.  It  was  in  vain  that  Zwingli,  during  the  whole 
day,  employed  every  means  in  his  power  to  obtain  admission. 
The  burgomasters  refused  it,  a])pealing  to  the  decision  of  the 
Little  Council.  "  I  was  oliliged  to  give  up,"  he  writes,  "  and  lay 
the  matter  before  Him  who  hears  the  groaning  of  the  prisoner, 
and  pray  Him  to  defend  His  own  Gospel.  Patient  waiting  has 
never  disappointed  the  servants  of  the  Lord."  It  was  on  the  9th 
that  the  Great  Council  met.  " It  is  unfair,"  said  many,  "that 
the  Leut-priests  are  not  allowed  to  appear."  But  the  Little 
Council  maintained  their  opposition,  and  pointed  to  their  resolu- 
tion. The  vote  was  taken  upon  their  objection,  and  the  majority 
decided  that  the  I^ut-prit'sts  should  be  present,  and  should  also 
have  the  right  of  answering,  if  they  found  it  necessaiy  to  do  so. 
After  the  Constantian  deputies  had  been  introduced,  "the  Zurich- 
ian  bishops"  were  called,  ILddreich  Zwingli,  Henry  Engelhard, 
Leut-priests  in  the  Frauen  ^linster.  and  lludulf  lioeschli  of  .St. 
Peter's.  The  Suffragan  began  his  speech  in  a  voice  so  soft  and 
winniuLj  that  a  sweeter  never  was  heard,  nn»l  one  might  have 


60  EEFOEMATION  OF  ECCLESIASTICAL  ABUSES. 

fancied,  had  heart  and  head  been  in  nnison,  he  was  about  to  sur- 
pass the  greatest  poets  and  orators  in  smooth  and  gracious  elo- 
quence. "  It  is  much  to  be  lamented,"  said  he,  "  that  some  con- 
tentious and  dangerous  men  teach  that  human  institutions  and 
rites  are  no  more  to  be  regarded.  In  this  manner,  not  only  civil 
laws,  but  Christianity  itself,  is  threatened  with  ruin.  Are  not 
ceremonies  a  manduction" — (this  Latin  word  the  suffragan  em- 
ployed, instead  of  the  corresponding  German  one,  to  men  quite 
ignorant  of  Latin) — "a  manduction,"  he  said,  "to  virtue?  Nay, 
might  they  not  with  propriety  be  called  the  origin  of  the  vii'tues? 
Now,  however,  it  is  taught  that  fasting  is  supei'fluous,  because, 
forsooth,  some  had  dared  to  separate  themselves,  by  the  eating 
of  flesh,  from  other  Christians,  and  from  the  Church.  An  appeal 
is  made  by  these  people  to  holy  Scripture,  although  Scripture 
gives  no  express  opinion  on  the  subject,  while  they  act  against 
the  decrees  and  councils  of  the  holy  fathers  of  the  Church,  and 
against  venerated  customs,  which,  without  the  aid  of  the  Holy 
Ghost,  had  never  endured  so  long  as  they  have  done,  for  Gamaliel 
himself  said,  'If  it  be  of  God,  ye  cannot  overthrow  it."'  He 
then  reminded  the  Council,  that  out  of  the  Church  none  could  be 
saved.  He  concluded  with  an  ornate  peroration,  and  having  done 
so,  arose  with  his  friends  to  depart.  "  My  lord,"  said  Zwingli, 
"  may  it  please  your  lordship  and  your  friends  to  remain  till, 
in  the  name  of  myseK  and  colleagues,  I  have  justified  myself" 
Suffragan :  "  We  have  no  commission  to  commence  a  disputation 
with  any  one."  Zwingli:  "Nor  is  such  my  wish.  All  that  I 
desire  is,  that  I  may  now  have  the  pleasure  of  delivering,  before 
you  learned  men  and  representatives  of  our  ecclesiastical  supe- 
riors, that  which  I  have  preached  to  the  honourable  citizens  who 
are  here  present,  that  you  may  be  enabled  to  give  a  trustworthy 
report  as  to  whether  you  have  found  my  doctrine  true  or  false." 
Suffragan :  "  We  have  not  spoken  against  you,  you  are  therefore 
under  no  necessity  to  justify  yourself."  Ztuingli:  "  Without 
doubt  you  have  abstained  from  mentioning  my  name,  but  your 
invectives  were  directed  against  me.  You  speak  to  me  like  the 
sea-fighter,  who  said,  '  Not  thee  I  strike,  but  the  fish.'*  It  appears 
you  have  not  mentioned  my  name,  that  you  might,  in  a  very 
smooth  and  polished  manner,  lay  to  the  charge  of  one  called 
*  Non  tc  Galle  peto,  pisccm  pcto. 


1M:K01{MATR)N  of  EtXir.ESIASTlCAL  AliUSKS.  HI 

Zwingli,  the  gveatt'st  crimes."  Tlie  Inivoomnstcr  Eoist  liegged 
the  Constantian  deputies  to  remain,  and  to  hear  tlie  Leut-priest. 
The.  Suffmrfan  VQi[)]k'd:  "I  know  well  to  what  this  will  lead, 
Huldreich  Zwingli  is  ttto  unmeasured  and  violent  in  his  language 
for  any  one  to  connuit  liimself  in  dispute  with  him."  Zwingli: 
"  In  what,  pray,  have  I  at  any  time  given  oflenee  to  you,  and 
how  shall  I  characterize  your  conduct,  you,  mIio  accuse  in  vehe- 
ment language  an  innocent  man,  who  has  done  good  sendee  to 
the  cause  of  Christianity,  and  who  yet  refuse  to  hear  him  in  his 
own  defence  ?  What  would  you  do,  think  you,  if  in  your  absence 
I  appealed  to  the  Council,  avoided  you,  would  no  more  of  you 
for  judges?  Now  that  I  do  nothing  of  tins  .'^ort,  that  I  even 
desire  your  presence  to  give  an  account  of  my  faith  and  my  doc- 
trine, how  can  you  be  so  unreasonable  as  to  refuse  to  hear  me  ? 
liut  if  reason  will  not  induce  you  to  grant  me  this,  then  I  entreat 
you,  in  the  name  of  our  common  faith,  our  common  baptism,  for 
the  sake  of  our  common  Redeemer,  that  ye  do  it  to  oblige  me, 
and  if,  as  ei)iscopal  deputies,  ye  cannot  sit  still,  yet  do  it  as 
Christians."  A  general  murnnir  of  di.sa])prol)ation  arose  in  the 
Council  at  the  demeanour  of  the  sufliagan.  This  general  dis- 
satisfaction, and  an  ap})eal  from  the  burgomaster,  compelled  the 
deputies  to  resume  their  places.  Zwingli  began  his  defence: 
"  My  lord  sufiragan  has  said  that  certain  individiuds  advance 
erroneous  and  seditious  doctrines.  Although  he  did  not  mention 
me  by  name,  it  is  yet  clear  he  designed  me  as  nmch  as  if  he  had 
named  me,  who  have  been  here  in  Zurich  for  about  four  years, 
preaching  the  Gospel  of  Jesus,  and  the  doctrine  of  the  apostles, 
Mith  the  sweat  of  my  brow.  It  is  no  matter  of  suqjrise  to  me 
that  those  who  bind  themselves  to  human  traditions  do  not  agi*ee 
with  those  who  reject  them.  Christ  has  plainly  prophesied  this, 
(Matt.  X.  Si.)  Yet  Zurich  is  more  qiuet  and  peacelul  than  any 
other  town  in  the  Confederacy,  and  this  all  good  citizens  ascribe 
to  the  Gospel.  In  respect  of  the  second  reproach,  namely,  that 
we  teach,  institutions  and  ceremonies  are  not  to  be  ol)sened,  I 
candidly  confess  that  I  wish  a  great  part  of  them  abolished.  Many 
of  these  institutions  are  like  those  of  which  IVter  himself  speaks 
in  the  Acts  of  the  Apostles,  that  they  are  burdens  which  can- 
not be  borne.  However,  I  have  never  held  the  opinion  that 
we  are  neither  to  make  nor  to  keep  human  institutions.     AVho 


62  REFORMATION  OF  ECCLESIASTICAL  ABUSES. 

will  not  submit  with  joy  to  that  which  is  accepted  by  the  uni- 
versal consent  of  the  whole  of  Christendom?  Wlio,  on  the  contrary, 
will  not  reject  with  abhorrence  the  traditions  of  certain  belly- 
servers  who,  like  the  Pharisees,  lay  intolerable  burdens  on  the 
people  which  they  themselves  will  not  touch  with  one  of  their 
fingers?  To  excite  the  Council  against  me,  the  Suffragan  has 
farther  said  it  will  soon  come  to  pass  that  civil  laws  will  not  be 
obeyed.  This  is  contradicted  by  the  whole  doctrine  of  Christ 
and  the  Apostles.  Christ  has  said,  '  Eender  to  Csesar  that  which 
is  Caisar's ;'  and  the  Apostles,  '  Give  every  man  that  which  is  due, 
and  be  subject  to  your  superiors,  not  only  to  the  good  and  gentle 
but  also  to  the  froward.'  Is  not  then  Christianity  the  best  safe- 
guard of  the  general  security?  Let  it  be  admitted,  however,  that 
ceremonies  were  all  abolished,  would  Christianity  thereby  cease 
to  exist?  The  people  can  be  led  by  another  path  than  by  cere- 
monies to  the  knowledge  of  the  truth,  even  by  the  path  which 
Christ  and  the  Apostles  pursued.  Nor  is  there  any  ground  at  all 
to  fear  that  the  people  cannot  comprehend  the  Gospel.  He  who 
believes  understands  it.  The  people  can  believe,  they  can  also 
understand.  This  is  a  work  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  not  of  human 
reason,  as  Christ  says.  Matt.  xi.  25 ;  and  Paul,  1  Cor.  i.  27.  Be- 
sides, I  have  at  no  time  or  place  maintained  that  the  forty  days 
fast  should  not  be  observed.  For  my  part  one  may  fast  the  whole 
year  if  he  have  not  enough  in  the  forty  days ;  only  I  hold  that 
fasts  should  not  be  imposed  on  any  one  by  the  threat  of  excom- 
munication, but  that  every  one  should  be  left  to  use  his  own 
liberty  in  this  matter."  Zwingli  then  proved  by  Mark  vii.  15, 
and  especially  by  1  Tim.  iv.  3,  4,  that  compulsory  obligations 
to  fast  were  not  founded  in  Holy  Scripture,  but,  on  the  contrary, 
were  opposed  to  it.  The  Suffragan  in  reply,  addressed  the  Coun- 
cil in  a  speech  full  of  unction,  exhorting  them,  as  they  valued 
their  salvation,  not  to  separate  themselves  from  the  Church, 
out  of  which  there  was  no  salvation.  Zwingli  replied :  "  Do  not 
let  yourselves,  dear  brethren  and  fellow-citizens,  be  brought  to 
believe  that  ye  have  separated  yourselves  from  the  Church.  Bear 
in  mind  only  that  which  I  told  you  in  my  exposition  of  Matthew, 
that  even  the  same  rock  which  gave  the  name  of  Peter  to  the 
true  disciple,  who  knew  his  Lord,  is  the  corner-stone  of  the  Church. 
Among  every  people  and  in  every  place,  he  who  calls  on  the 


llEFOltMATlON  OF  ECCLESIASTICAL  ABUSES.  03 

name  of  the  Lord,  and  in  heart  believes  that  God  raised  Christ  from 
the  dead,  will  be  saved.  It  is  certain  no  man  can  be  saved  out 
of  that  Church  to  which  we  all  the  more  surely  Ijelong,  the  more 
surely  we  rejoice  in  the  hope  of  a  glorious  inlieritance  among  the 
saints."  The  Suffragan  remarked,  it  was  the  duty  of  the  Leut- 
priests  to  explain  to  the  people  the  significance  of  the  ceremonies. 
Zwingli  replied:  "  No,  mine  is  the  duty  to  preach  Christ  faithfully 
as  I  have  done  hitherto.  As  for  the  ceremonies,  let  them  explain 
them  that  live  by  them."*  After  a  short  debate,  the  Suffragan 
deemed  it  advisable  to  be  silent,  and  withdrew.  The  mission  had 
entirely  failed  of  its  object. 

Dr.  Wanner,  a  member  of  the  dei)utation,  was  so  convinced  of 
the  soundness  of  Zwingli's  doctrine,  that  out  of  a  minion  of  the 
bishop,  he  became  a  faithful  preacher  of  the  Gospel.  Zwingli 
not  only  was  not  ])ut  to  silence  or  defeated,  Init  he  had  vigorously 
repelled  the  attacks  of  his  adversaries  with  the  sword  of  the  Spirit. 
In  reference  to  the  result  of  this  conflict,  he  wrote  to  his  friend 
Myconius ;  "I  so  ansAvered  them,  that  it  is  generally  said  in  Zurich, 
they  will  never  again  bring  together  their  routed  forces,  or  lead 
them  with  success  into  a  new  combat.  Yet  I  hear  they  intend  to 
renew  it.  Let  them  come  ;  with  God  I  fear  them  as  little  as  the 
beetling  cliff  fears  the  waves  that  thunder  at  its  base."  After  the 
above  proceedings,  the  Council  resolved  to  request  the  bishop,  by 
letter,  that  he  would  be  pleased  to  employ  his  influence  with  the 
pope  and  the  cardinals,  as  also  with  the  bishops,  synods,  and  with 
Christian  men  of  learning  generally,  that  they  might  give  some 
solution  of  the  points  in  debate,  so  that  the  people  might  know 
how  they  were  to  act.  The  Little  Council,  in  whom  lay  the  exe- 
cutive, having  punished  in  the  meanwhile,  by  fine,  some  trans- 
gi'essions  of  the  fast-laws,  Zwingli  feared  the  people  might  regard 
this  as  a  condemnation  of  his  doctrine.  To  prevent  this  result, 
he  wrote  and  ])ulilished  through  the  printing-press,  a  small  work 
on  "  The  Abstaining  from  and  Partaking  of  Meats,  Offence-Giv- 
ing, and  Strife,"  in  which  he  endeavoured,  on  the  one  hand,  to 
prove  that  compulsory  fasting  was  contrary  to  reason  and  Scrip- 
ture ;  while  on  the  other  hand,  he  pressed  on  the  hearts  and  con- 

*  With  these  words  Zwingli  purposely,  hut  without  hciiift  too  jtlain  in  his  allu- 
sion,  touched  the  Sutfrnpan  on  n  sore  point.  "For  is  it  not  notorious  that  tlic 
Suffragans  till  their  purses  hy  the  niummeries  porfonned  at  their  consecrations?" 
«ays  he,  in  one  of  his  writings. 


64  REFOEMATION  OF  ECCLESIASTICAL  ABUSES. 

sciences  of  the  more  advanced  in  Christian  knowledge  the  duty 
of  abstaining  from  giving  to  the  weaker  in  the  faith  any  offence 
by  an  untimely  transgression  of  the  fast-laws.  "  The  eating  of 
flesh  has  been,"  says  he  in  his  little  work,  "  at  no  time  forbidden 
by  any  Divine  commandment.  But  if  thy  neighbour  feel  him- 
self hurt  and  offended  thereby,  thou  oughtest  not  to  do  it  without 
necessity,  until  he  be  confirmed  in  the  faith.  Is  he  confirmed, 
then  thou  mayest  eat  quietly  even  before  him  of  all  and  every 
sort  of  meats ;  is  he  not,  then  thou  oughtest  to  share  his  weakness, 
so  long  as  it  is  actually  weakness.  For  Paul  says:  'But  if  thy 
brother  be  grieved  with  thy  meat,  now  walkest  thou  not  charit- 
ably. Destroy  not  him  with  thy  meat,  for  whom  Christ  died.' 
I\om.  xiv.  15,  and,  '  For  meat  destroy  not  the  work  of  God,'  v.  20. 
Again,  he  says,  '  AVlierefore,  if  meat  make  my  brother  to  offend,  I 
will  eat  no  flesh  while  the  world  standeth,  lest  I  make  my  brother 
to  offend,'  (1  Cor.  viii.  13).  As  long  as  thy  brother  is  weak,  and 
so  to  say  a  minor,  he  must  be  tenderly  dealt  with.  Is  he  no 
longer  weak,  yet  must  he  l)e  again  spared  if  thy  eating  cause  dis- 
turbance. For  thou  art  not,  for  the  food's  sake,  to  destroy  the 
work  of  God ;  that  is,  we  are  not,  for  the  sake  of  freedom  in 
meats,  to  cause  that  the  Gospel  should  give  offence.  If,  however, 
in  an  enlightened  community  we  can  eat  of  the  meats  without 
giving  offence  and  causing  dispeace,  let  it  be  done.  For,  surely, 
it  will  never  come  to  such  a  pass  in  this  world,  that  what  is  right 
and  good  will  please  all  men ;  there  will  always  be  some  ready 
to  rise  up  in  rebellion  against  it ;  yet  our  duty  is  to  do  the  things 
which  make  for  peace."  The  influence  which  this  admirable 
treatise,  written  in  a  Christian  spirit  as  mild  as  it  was  decided, 
exercised  on  the  minds  of  men,  both  far  and  near,  was  very  great. 
The  enemies  of  the  Gospel  saw  that  they  had  not  a  moment  to 
lose,  if  they  were  to  overcome  the  most  dangerous  opponent  which 
human  doctrines  and  traditions  had  yet  encountered.  The  plan 
was  forthwith  devised  of  making  an  attack  on  him  from  four  dif- 
ferent quarters  at  once,  and  it  was  confidently  hoped  he  would 
fall  before  a  united  onset. 

The  first  who  came  forward  in  conformity  with  this  design 
was  the  aged  Canon,  Conrad  Hoffmann,  who  handed  to  the 
chapter  a  long  accusatory  writing  against  the  reformer.  "  Even," 
said  he  on  this  occasion,  "  should  the  parson  be  able  to  prove,  by 


REFORMATION  OF  ECCLESIASTICAL  ABUSES.  ().) 

witnesses,  what  misdenieiinours  or  criiucs  are  committed  by  tiie 
clergy  in  this  or  tliat  cloister,  in  this  or  that  street,  or  in  this  or 
that  tavern,  it  is  no  business  of  his  to  name  any  one.  Why  gives 
lie  it  to  be  understood,  (I,  for  my  part,  have  scarcely  ever  heard 
him  preach),  that  he  alone  draws  his  doctrine  from  the  fountain- 
head,  the  othei-s  only  out  of  pools  and  ditches  ?  The  spirits 
are  different,  and  all  preachers  cannot  preach  the  same  things." 
Zwingli  justified  himself  at  a  meeting  of  the  chapter  with  such 
success  that  Hoflmann  was  obliged  to  draw  off  discomfited.  "  1 
gave  him,"  Zwingli  writes  to  Myconius,  "  a  shaking,  such  as  an 
ox,  when,  with  its  horns,  it  tosses  a  heap  of  chaff  up  in  the  air." 
The  other  ships  of  war  came  out  of  the  Episcopal  harbour  of 
Constance  itself. 

The  bishop  led  the  way,  and  issued,  on  the  2d  of  May,  a  pas- 
toral letter  to  the  clergy  of  his  diocese,  in  .which  he  complained, 
without  naming  either  Zurich  or  Zwingli,  that  designing  men, 
at  the  veiy  time  that  the  Turks  were  falling  on  the  Christians 
sword  in  hand,  were  s})reading  their  danniable  heresies  over  the 
land,  and  that  learned  and  unlearned  men  were  everywhere  con- 
tending upon  divine  things, — upon  the  holiest  and  sublimest  mys- 
teries, upon  the  honour  to  be  shcMn  to  God,  and  the  rites  and 
ceremonies  of  the  Church.  The  clergy  were  exhoited  to  be 
instant  in  prayer  to  God,  that  His  Almighty  power  would 
])ut  a  stop  to  the  "hardened  iniquity  of  the  i)erverse."  This 
document,  which  came  from  the  pen  of  Faber,  was  framed  for  the 
pui-pose  of  weakening,  or  indeed  of  altogether  ruining  Zwingli's 
reputation  among  the  people.  That  Zwingli  and  his  friends, 
however,  might  be  annihilated  at  once,  the  Bishop  of  Lausanne 
issued  at  the  same  time  a  like  cii'cular  to  the  clergy  of  liis  diocese. 
The  monks  in  Berne  announced,  in  consequence  of  this  letter,  that 
to  all  who  read  the  books  of  Zwingli  or  of  Luther,  or  who  either 
in  public  or  in  secret  spoke  against  the  holy  rites  and  customs 
of  the  Church,  they  would,  in  the  hour  of  death,  refuse  the  holy 
Sacraments,  they  would  exclude  them  from  Christian  burial,  and 
the  supplications  of  Christendom,  and  so  on.  But  the  poisoned 
dart  that  was  to  strike  Zwingli  recoiled  upon  those  who  dis- 
charged it,  and  wounded  them  in  a  manner  tlie  most  acute.  Dr. 
Sebastian  Meier,  a  Franciscan  monk  in  Berne,  annexed  a  com- 
mentary to  the  pastoral  letter,  sentence  for  sentence,  which  ho 


0(i  REFOEMATION  OF  ECCLESIASTICAL  ABUSES. 

published  anonymously.  Zwingli  procured  its  publication  in 
Zurich  just  after  lie  had  issued  from  the  press  his  own  defence  of 
himself,  and  attack  of  his  enemies,  which  is  mentioned  below. 
In  what  spirit  Meier's  exposition  of  the  episcopal  letter  was 
drawn  up,  the  following  extract  will  shew  :  "  Behold,  dear  reader, 
the  Turk  is  again  at  the  door.  Ye  papists  must  needs  sell  indul- 
gences, and  drive  liim  off.  Ah  !  for  many  a  year  he  has  been  to 
you  a  good  Turk;  has  he  not  brought  much  into  your  larder, 
given  a  great  impetus  to  your  luxuiy  ?  But,  alas !  absolution 
will  now  avail  nothing, — the  trick  is  discovered.  Wliat  is  to  be 
done  ?  How  is  the  Turk  to  be  driven  off?  Or  rather,  How  are 
the  princes  to  be  maintained  ?  For  mark,  this  is  the  great  point ; 
it  is  here  the  shoe  pinches.  But  now  they  really  tremble  before 
the  Turk.  As  long,  however,  as  he  lay  like  a  stone  on  the  neck 
of  the  King  of  Hungaiy,  they  gave  themselves  no  concern  about 
him.  But  now  when  he  is  marching  into  Italy,  he  comes  too 
near.  Now  they  have  for  many  long  years  cheated  the  world  by 
absolution,  and  a  thousand  other  impostures,  and  without  doubt 
have  heaped  up  an  immense  treasure,  as  also  the  Johannite  order, 
that  for  many  a  year  has  certainly  earned  on  no  war  against  the 
Turk.  Where  is  this  treasure  ?  Of  what  use  are  troopers  to  the 
bishops  ?  Is  it  to  ride  about  the  highways  and  terrify  the  mer- 
chants, so  that  the  money  drops  out  of  their  jDurses,  from  sheer  ter- 
ror, into  the  hands  of  those  to  whom  it  does  not  rightfully  belong? 
Nay,  let  this  all  as  well  as  the  rich  abbeys  be  employed  against 
the  Turk  !  The  warlike  bishops,  cardinals,  priests,  and  cowardly 
monks,  that  are  to  be  seen  on  every  road  with  their  long  swords, 
— off  with  them, — send  them  all  against  the  Turks.  With  these 
you  have  money  and  men  enough,  and  need  not  torment  honest 
folks,  and  empty  their  purses.  This  all,  dear  reader,  I  have  been 
forced  to  say,  from  seeing  them  braving  us  with  the  Turks,  with 
which  enemy  they  have  often  already  terrified  simple  Christians ; 
dream  not  they  mean  it  half  so  earnestly  as  they  appear  to  do 
about  these  same  Turks;  their  princely  state  is ^ all  they  care 
for."  With  a  sharp  eye  and  an  unsparing  weapon  the  ecclesias- 
tical abuses,  especially  as  connected  with  the  episcopal  courts, 
were  detected  and  laid  bare,  following  the  thread  of  the  pastoral 
letter,  and  illustrated  with  examples.  This  publication  had  the 
greater  effect  from  following  closely  on  the  one  of  Zwingli's,  bear- 


REFORI^IATION  OF  ECCLESIASTIOAI.  AlUSES.  07 

ing  the  title  of  '  Archotek's,'  (the  I5egiiiiiin«i;-  and  the  Kiul,)  and 
\\'hic'h  he  wrote  to  defend  himself  against  his  enemies. 

On  the  24'th  of  May  the  third  attack  was  made  n])()ii  Zwiiii^li, 
and  again  from  the  quarter  of  the  Episcopal  Court.  A  document, 
drawn  up  at  great  length  by  Faher,  was  sent  to  the  provost  and 
Chapter,  and  in  it  they  were  called  upon  by  the  Bishop  "  to  be  on 
their  guard  against  the  jioison  of  the  new  teachers,  who  com])lain 
of  the  multitude  of  ceremonies,  and  with  vigour  to  oppose  those 
who  set  themselves  against  the  old  customs  of  the  Chiu-ch."  The 
Bishop  refers  again  to  the  circumstance  that  the  heads  of  Chris- 
tendom, the  Pope  and  the  Emperor,  had  puljlicly  condennied  the 
new  doctrines  as  dangerous  and  seditious.*  "  They  are  therefore 
to  take  all  measures  that  the  same  be  not  preached,  and  neither 
in  public  nor  in  private  disputed  upon."  Tlu^  (Jhapter  were  here 
pretty  plainly  called  upon,  as  the  electors  and  immediate  supe- 
riors of  the  Leut-priest,  to  i)rocecd  to  his  removal  and  dismissal. 
It  was  expected  this  end  would  be  the  more  easily  reached,  from 
the  known  hostility  of  some  of  its  members  to  him.  Accordingly, 
when  the  document  came  to  be  read  in  their  meeting,  all  the 
canons  turned  their  eyes  in  silence  upon  Zwingli,  who  forthwith 
rose  and  said :  "  I  read  in  your  looks  you  are  of  opinion  this  writ- 
ing is  directed  against  me.  I  am  of  the  same  opinion  myself, 
and  have  therefore  to  request  that  it  be  delivered  to  me.  With 
the  help  of  God  I  shall  so  answer  it,  that  the  duplicity  of  these 
men  shall  be  laid  bare  and  the  tnith  made  known."  Zwingli 
answered  the  document  in  the  puljlication  already  mentioned, 
consisting  of  nine  and  a  half  sheets  of  letter-press,  and  which 
bore  the  title  of  'the  Beginning  and  the  End,' because  he  hoped  it 
would  be  the  first  and  last  defence  it  would  be  necessary  for  him 
to  make  against  his  enemies.  He  had  the  pastoral  letter  pub- 
lished at  the  same  time,  and  answered  it  sentence  by  sentence. -f- 
Ascribing  the  evil  counsels  taken  against  the  gospel  to  the 
advisers  of  the  bishop,  he  writes  of  the  bishop  himself  in  terms 
of  the  greatest  respect.  "  In  conclusion,"  he  says,  "  renounce 
such  counsellors,  and  all  connection  with  them,  else  you  will 

*  By  the  ontlawr}-  and  cxconimunication  of  Lutlicr. 

t  Zwinpli's  Archetcles  liad  been  written  and  printed  hefurc  tlie  answer  of 
Meier  to  the  pastoral  letter  of  the  Bishop,  and  the  latter  had  copied  Zwinpli's 
plan.  We  have  matlc  reference  to  Meier's  production  ixv-t,  hecause  the  Bishop's 
letter  appeared  before  the  one  to  the  Chajiter. 


68  REFORMATION  OF  ECCLESIASTICAL  ABUSES. 

become  a  laughing-stock  to  tlie  world.  For  what  ScrijDture 
teaches  is  no  more  to  be  learned  only  from  the  mouths  of  the 
priests ;  the  people  themselves  know  it.  Not  authority,  but 
reason  and  a  pious  mind  must  lead  us,  else  we  shall  effect  as 
little  as  Paul  when  he  kicked  against  the  pricks.  Not  to  speak 
of  the  almighty  power  of  God,  the  zeal  for  the  gospel  has  now 
gained  such  strength  that  it  can  neither  be  put  to  sleep,  nor  sup- 
pressed by  the  contemptible  labours  of  a  few  isolated  indivi- 
duals ;  and  supposing  malignity  should  succeed  in  smothering 
for  a  time  this  flame  of  zeal,  the  fire  would  only  break  out  with 
greater  violence  at  an  after  period.  Be  wise  and  cautious,  and 
entreat  the  Lord  that  he  may  guide  your  footsteps.  Zwingli 
himself  prays  :  '  0  blessed  Jesus,  Thou  seest  that  the  ears  of  Thy 
people  are  stopped  by  whisperers,  traitors,  self-seekers.  Thou 
knowest  how  I  have,  from  childhood,  shunned  this  conflict,  and 
that  even  yet  Thou  leadest  me  on  to  the  fight.  I  call  to  Thee, 
in  trust  that  Thou  wouldest  accomplish  what  Thou  hast  begun. 
If  I  have  built  up  anything  wrongly,  then,  0  Lord,  overthrow  it 
with  Thine  Almighty  hand.  If  I  lay  another  foundation  than 
Thyself,  tear  it  down.  0  sweet  Vine  !  whose  vine-dresser  the 
Father  is,  whose  branches  we  are,  leave  not  Thy  supporters.  For 
Thou  hast  promised  to  be  with  us  to  the  end  of  the  world.'" 

In  this  manner,  this  third  attack  of  Faber's  was  so  repulsed 
that  it  redounded  to  the  glory  of  the  gospel.  Hummelberger, 
parson  in  Eevensburg,  wrote  to  Zwingli,  under  date  the  1st  Sep- 
tember :  "  Your  Archeteles  was  right  welcome.  I  was  especially 
pleased  at  the  manner  in  which  you  handled  that  hypocritical 
Caiaphas  (Faber)  according  to  his  merits,  and  sketched  him  to 
the  life.  Such  people,  who  will  not  themselves  cleanse  out  the 
filth,  must  be  subjected  to  the  operation  of  a  sharp  ley.  Well 
satisfied  with  themselves,  they  must  sometimes  hear  what  is  said 
of  them  by  others,  that,  if  possible,  they  may  amend  their  ways. 
Henceforward  the  serpent,  if  wise,  will  no  longer  hiss,  the  frog 
quack,  or  the  idle  gossip  talk  nonsense  in  the  streets.  As  soon 
as  I  received  my  copy  and  read  it,  I  despatched  it  to  Wittemberg, 
to  Melanchton  and  Blarer  ;  I  sent  another  to  our  friends  at 
Augsburg,  that  they  might  see  what  new  zeal  has  sprung  up  in 
Zurich  for  Christianity ;  the  grace  of  God  again  shaking  its  locks 
out  of  its  deep  sleep." 


REFORMATION  OF  ECCLESIASTICAL  ABUSES.  C9 

But  we  luusteu  to  detail  the  incidents  of  the  fourth  attack, 
which  was  made  from  Constance,  simultaneously  with  the  last. 
Faber  and  Landenber<.>-  applied  to  the  ])iet,  the  highest  temporal 
power  in  the  Confederacy.  This  body  contained  within  itself  an 
overwhelming  majority  of  the  friends  of  foreign  mercenary  ser\dce 
and  pensions,  and  the  enemies  of  the  gospel.  Zwingli  especially, 
on  account  of  his  patriotic  labours  above  described,  was  an  object 
of  their  bitterest  hostility.  Accoi-diugly,  when  delegates  from 
tlu^  l»ishop  a]ipear(Hl  at  Lucerne,  l)efore  the  asseniljled  Diet,  on  the 
27th  May  15'2'2,  lodging  a  complaint  against  the  adherents  of  the 
new  doctrine  and  the  preacher  of  Zurich,  they  found  a  very  ready 
liearing.  The  motion  Wci.s  immediately  put  and  earned ;  "  in 
name  of  the  Confederacy  to  instruct  the  priests,  whose  sermons 
produced  disunion  and  disturbance  among  the  people,  to  desist 
from  such  preaching."  Sorely  as  this  resolution  annoyed  Zwin- 
gli, he  did  not  rdlow  himself  to  be  discouraged  by  it,  or  to  relax 
in  his  zeal  in  the  cause  of  Christ.  These  combined  attacks  upon 
the  gospel  and  its  preaching,  by  licentious  monks,  and  a  degene- 
rate, seltish,  and  worldly-minded  episcopate,  backed  by  all  the 
venal  membei-s  of  the  Diet  in  the  pay  and  attached  to  the  inter- 
est of  foreign  po%vers,  only  animated  him  to  fresh  exertions. 

lie  heard  in  the  brewing  storm  the  voice  of  God  calling  to  him 
more  distinctly  than  ever,  to  uphold  the  sacred  banner  of  the 
truth,  and  display  it  not  only  fi'om  the  pulpit  of  the  Zurich 
Minster,  but  to  wave  it  before  the  whole  Confederacy.  The  first 
thing,  in  his  opinion,  to  be  done  was  to  unite  the  friends  of  the 
gospel  against  "  the  rulers  taking  counsel  together  against  the  Lord 
and  against  his  anointed"  (Psalm  ii.  2,)  that  so,  in  many  places,  and 
by  many  witnesses,  diyine  truth  might  be  ])roclaimed,  and  its  testi- 
mony continued.  Accordingly,  he  called  together,  at  Einsiedeln, 
a  number  of  the  evangelical  clergy,  on  the  2d,  and  on  the  13th 
of  June  lo22,  and  laid  before  them  for  signature  two  petitions 
which  he  had  himself  drawn  up,  one  in  the  German  language, 
addressed  to  the  Diet  of  the  Confederacy,  and  another  in  Latin, 
addressed  to  the  Bishop  f)f  Constance.  The  petitions  were  diflVrent 
in  foiin,  l)ut  in  substance  the  same,  and  prayed,  "  that  the  itreach- 
ing  of  the  gospel  might  not  be  forbidden,  and  that  it  might  be 
permitted  to  the  priests  to  marry." 

In  the  one  to  the  Diet  the  wish  was  fii-st  of  all  exiu'essed  that 


70  REFOEMATION  OF  ECCLESIASTICAL  ABUSES. 

the  like  thing  might  happen  to  them  as  to  the  Council  at 
Athens  under  the  preaching  of  Paul.  (Acts,  xvii.)  At  first  they 
wondered  at  the  new  things  they  heard,  but  afterwards  many 
being  instructed  believed  on  Christ.  "  We  hear,  too,  how  there 
are  some  amongst  you  who  have  allowed  yourselves  to  be  per- 
suaded that  the  preaching  of  the  gospel  is  an  innovation,  else 
certainly  no  one  in  the  whole  Confederacy  had  dared  to  set  him- 
self against  the  Word  of  God."  A  concise  and  clear  exposition 
of  the  principal  doctrines  of  the  gospel  follows,  as  we  find  in 
Part  II.,  Book  II.,  chap.  i.  "  This  evangelical  doctrine,  however, 
must  be  drawn  wholly  from  its  fountains,  from  the  writings  of 
the  evangelists  and  apostles,  the  patriarchs  and  prophets,  and  not 
from  the  inventions  and  traditions  of  men,  which  may  be  likened 
to  stagnant  pools  and  ditches  of  impure  water.  As  every  one, 
however,  may  not  be  able  to  judge  which  preacher  draws  from  the 
source,  and  which  from  the  pools  and  ditches,  we  shall  here  pro- 
duce a  description  of  both.  The  preacher,  whose  continual  aim 
and  labour  it  is  that  the  will,  the  doctrine,  and  the  mind  of 
God  be  made  known,  and  His  glory  advanced ;  whose  care  it  is  to 
rouse  sinners  to  repentance,  and  to  quiet  the  awakened  conscience ; 
who  looks  not  to  his  own  honour  or  advancement,  or  to  any 
worldly  interest ;  who  holds  wholly  to  the  Scriptures,  he  is  with- 
out doubt  like-minded  with  Christ,  who  sought  not  His  own  but 
ours.  But  he  who  litigates  with  his  flock  about  this  world's 
goods,  who  preaches  nothing  but  payment  of  tithes  and  dues  to 
the  Church,  who  finds  out  daily  new  saints  to  make  offerings  to, 
who  recommends  and  extols  the  absolution,  who  fills  his  sermons 
with  exaltation  of  the  spiritual  power  and  dignity,  above  all, 
commends  the  Papal  authority,  the  man  who  thus  acts  and 
preaches,  it  is  to  be  feared,  has  much  more  at  heart  the  interests 
of  this  world  than  the  honour  of  God  and  the  salvation  of  souls. 
If  there  be  among  you  those  who  cannot  bear  that  their  arrogance 
be  deprived  of  that  which  it  feeds  upon,  and  who  would  persuade 
you  to  forl)id  the  preaching  of  the  gospel,  or  to  command  it  to  be 
preached  in  such  a  way  that  it  neither  offends  any  one  nor  dis- 
covers prevailing  vices,  lend  these  people,  I  beseech  you,  no  ear, 
for  if  you  do,  ye  will  fall  under  the  displeasure  of  Almighty  God. 
It  is  sad  and  melancholy  enough  when  the  carnal  man  will  not 
let  himself  be  put  right  by  other  mr-n,  but  intinitely  worse  is  it  if 


HEFOEMATlUN  OF  ECCLESIASTICAL  ABUSES.  71 

the  man  Avill  nut  lioar  God,  for  hu  tlaTcln'  piuvc-s  clcurly  tliat  he 
is  not  of  God.  Certain  it  is,  the  Word  of  God  has  never  been 
rejected  and  disregarded  witli  impunity.  For  the  rest,  Me  must 
foUow  the  exampk'  of  the  apostles  of  the  Lord,  when  the  High 
Council  forbade  them  to  ])reach  Christ ;  we,  too,  are  justified 
in  saying,  we  ought  to  obey  God  rather  than  men."  (Acts 
V.  29.)  In  the  second  part  of  the  petition,  Zwingli  avows,  with 
the  greatest  candour,  that  uotliing  has  more  hindered  the  progi-ess 
of  the  gospt'l  than  "the  immorality  and  unchastity  of  the  clergy. 
Your  lionours  know  the  scandalous  lives  led  by  us  in  respect  to 
unlawful  intercourse  with  women,  by  which  we  have  roused  the 
indignation  of  the  world  ;  the  fiery  blood  of  youth,  which  none, 
without  the  special  grace  of  God,  might  overcome,  was  partly  the 
cause  ;  principally,  however,  they  are  to  blame  for  these  excesses, 
who,  although  they  saw  that  no  man  could  maintain  his  vows, 
and  they  themselves,  as  God  well  knows,  least  of  all,  yet  would 
not  have  this  hypocritical  pretence  of  compulsoiy  celibacy  done 
away  witk"  He  then  proceeds  to  prove  the  propriety  of  priestly 
marriage,  by  clear  passages  from  Scripture,  as  well  as  by  exam- 
ples and  precedents  taken  from  the  ancient  Church.  lie  con- 
cludes :  "We  are  all  Swdss  ;  you  are  our  fathers.  Many  of  us  have 
shewn  ourselves  to  be  time  men  in  battle,  in  pestilence,  and  in 
other  public  calamities.  We  speak  in  the  name  of  tioie  chastity; 
we  might  indulge  the  lusts  of  the  flesh  more  by  not  subjecting 
ourselves  to  the  restraints  of  mamage.  But  the  scandals  in  the 
Christian  Chuich  must  cease.  If  Eomish  tyranny  should  oppress 
us,  fear  not,  honourable  and  brave  men,  the  Word  of  God  and 
Christian  freedom  are  worth  contending  for,  and  Divine  grace 
will  not  fail  us.  AVe  have  one  native  country,  one  faith ;  we  are 
Swiss  ;  and  the  virtue  of  our  illustrious  ancestors  ever  di.splayed 
itself  in  the  indomitable  defence  of  all  the  oppressed.  God 
give  you  such  a  spirit ;  for  truly  we  swear  to  you,  before  CJod, 
that  such  will  be  to  your  honour,  and  to  our  salvation.  ]\Iay 
the  Lord  Ix'  with  you.  Amen."  This  ])etition  was  presented  by 
Zwingli,  in  the  name  of  all  the  friends  assembled  at  Einsiedeln. 

The  petition  to  the  Bishop  of  Constance  was  signed  as  well  Ijy 
those  present  as  by  other  friends  of  evangelical  truth  in  Switzer- 
land. In  this  document  they  tell  the  bish(»p:  "Tlie  divine  teach- 
ing, tlic  truth  which  Ciod  the  Creator  hath  revealed  throiiirh  His 


72  EEFOEMATION  OF  ECCLESIASTICAL  ABUSES. 

Son  to  mankind,  when  they  were  sunk  in  misery,  has  been  cor- 
rupted and  defaced  at  one  time  by  the  ignorance,  at  another  by 
the  malignity  of  men.  God  has  resolved  to  give  it  to  mankind 
in  its  original  purity.  Unite  yourselves  to  those  who  desire  that 
the  whole  of  Christendom  may  return  to  Christ,  their  common 
Head.  We  have  resolved  to  preach  His  Gospel  unceasingly,  and 
so  that  no  one  can  complain.  Forward  this  strange  but  yet  not 
rash  design.  Advance  like  Moses  in  the  exodus  out  of  Egypt, 
at  the  head  of  the  people,  and  overthrow  all  obstacles  which 
oppose  the  victorious  progress  of  the  truth."  In  the  second  part 
of  the  petition  they  say  :  "  We  pray  thee  for  Christ's  sake,  by  the 
infirmities  of  many  weak  vacillating  souls,  by  the  wounds  of  many 
sick  consciences,  by  every  consideration,  human  and  divine, 
grant  the  abolition  of  that  which  has  rather  been  brought  in  by 
stealth  than  by  design.  See  to  it,  that  the  building  which  has 
been  erected,  in  contradiction  of  the  will  of  God,  do  not  tumble 
in  pieces  with  a  terrible  crash.  The  world  is  exposed  to  many 
storms ;  without  wise  measures  the  priesthood  will  be  over- 
whelmed." Little  as  was  the  influence  which  this  petition 
exerted  on  those  to  whom  it  was  addressed,  it  still  produced 
great  effects  among  the  lower  orders  of  clergy  and  the  people. 
It  became  a  banner,  round  which  the  friends  of  divine  truth  and 
of  the  rights  of  conscience  leagued  in  one  covenant,  that  disap- 
pointed all  the  schemes  of  combined  iniquity.  On  the  1 5th  of 
August  of  this  year,  the  chapter  of  the  canton  of  Zurich,  which 
comprised  the  clergy  from  the  sources  of  the  Linth  to  the  junction 
of  the  Limath  with  the  Reuss,  met  and  made  the  great  spiritual 
movement  of  the  times  a  chief  topic  of  debate.  By  Zwingli's 
influence,  this  ecclesiastical  assembly  unanimously  adopted  the 
following  resolution,  "  to  preach  nothing  but  what  is  contained 
in  the  Word  of  God." 

The  Reformer  had  thus  won  a  glorious  victory.  He  had, 
through  an  honest  proclamation  of  the  divine  message  to  fallen 
man,  of  whose  truth  he  had  in  his  own  heart  felt  the  conviction, 
emancipated  the  conscience  from  the  fetters  of  human  traditions, 
and  raised  it  to  the  joyful  obedience  of  faith.  "  We  must  obey 
God  rather  than  men,"  became  the  watch-word  in  Zurich,  and  was 
adopted  by  the  greater  part  of  the  Swiss  clergy. 


FIRST  RELATION  TO  LUTHER.  Jl] 


4.  ZwiNGLi's  First  Relation  to  Luther. 

About  the  same  time  that  God  called  Hiildreich  Zwingli,  in 
Switzerland,  to  be  a  chosen  instrument  in  the  reformation  of  His 
Church  according  to  its  original  purity  and  design,  Martin 
Luther,  in  Wittemberg,  was  stirred  up  by  Ilis  Spirit  to  engage  in 
the  same  work.  Both  of  these  distinguished  men  stood  upon  the 
same  ground ;  both  recognising  the  alone  way  of  salvation  in  faith 
on  Jesus  Christ,  and  the  alone  directory  of  faith  and  practice  in 
the  Word  of  God ;  yet  the  ray  of  divine  truth  reflected  itself  dif- 
ferently in  the  minds  of  the  two  Eeformers,  and  shone  with  a  dif- 
ferent glory  in  each.  In  Luther's  character,  actions,  and  writings, 
the  Spirit  of  God  manifests  itself  at  one  time  impetuous  and 
vehement,  like  the  a^^•ful  tempest  roaring  in  a  forest  of  German 
oaks,  and  shaking  violently  its  lofty  trees  ;  at  another  time,  soft 
and  gentle  like  the  zeph}T,  whispering  mysteriously  and  sweetly, 
and  scarcely  agitating  the  leaves.  On  the  soul  of  Zwingli,  the 
Spirit  of  Tnith  arose  in  calm  majesty  like  the  sun,  slowly  and 
majestically  climbing  the  blue  cerulean  over  some  Swiss  moun- 
tain; he  stood  immovable  in  all  the  storms  that  surrounded  him, 
like  one  of  his  native  mountains,  when  the  tempest  swathes  it 
round  with  its  gu-dle  of  horrors,  or  the  avalanche  leaps  from  its 
sides  into  the  abysses.  In  reply  to  the  question,  which  of  these 
two  men  of  God  is  the  greater,  the  answer  holds  good,  that  great- 
ness in  the  kingdom  of  God  is  not  measured  as  we  measure 
worldly  greatness.  Both  acknowledged  themselves  in  liumility 
"only  by  gi-ace  to  be  what  they  were;"  both  were  prepared  joy- 
fully to  drink  of  the  cup  of  suflering  which  their  Master  had 
drained  to  the  dregs ;  both  to  be  baptised  with  the  baptism  with 
which  He  was  baptised.  (Matt.  xx.  22.)  After  Luther  had  been 
proclaimed  a  heretic  by  the  Pope  and  excommunicated,  it  was 
conceived  that  the  speediest  means  of  getting  rid  of  Zwingli  was 
to  call  him  the  scholar  and  imitator  of  Luther.  This  induced  him 
to  speak  out  more  plainly  regarding  his  relations  to  the  gi'eat 
Gemian  Reformer.  "  I  began,"  says  he,  "  before  a  single  indivi- 
dual in  our  part  of  the  country-  oven  heard  of  the  name  of  Luther, 
to  preach  the  gospel:  this  was  in  the  year  L')16.     Who  called  me 


74  FIRST  RELATION  TO  LUTHER. 

then  a  Lutheran?  When  Luther's  Exposition  of  the  Lord's 
Prayer  appeared,  it  so  happened  that  I  had  shortly  before  preached 
from  Matthew  on  the  same  prayer.  Well,  some  good  folks,  who 
everywhere  found  my  thoughts  in  Luther's  work,  would  hardly 
let  themselves  be  made  to  believe  that  I  had  not  written  this 
book  myself ;  they  fancied  that,  being  afraid  to  put  my  own  name 
to  it,  I  had  set  that  of  Luther's  instead.  Who  called  me  then  a 
follower  of  Luther?  Then,  how  comes  it  that  the  Eomisli  Car- 
dinals and  Legates,  who  were  at  that  very  time  in  Zurich,  never 
reproached  me  as  Lutheran,  until  they  had  declared  Luther  a  here- 
tic, which  however  they  could  never  make  him  ?  Wlien  they  had 
branded  him  a  heretic,  it  was  then  for  the  first  time  they  exclaimed, 
I  was  Lutheran ;  although  Luther's  name  was  entirely  unknown 
to  me  during  these  two  years  that  I  kept  to  the  Bible  alone.  But 
it  is  part  of  their  cunning  policy  to  load  me  and  others  with  this 
name.  Do  they  say :  You  must  be  Lutheran  for  you  preach  as 
Luther ;  I  answer,  I  preach  too  as  Paul  writes,  why  not  call  me  a 
Paulean?  Nay ;  I  preach  the  Word  of  Christ,  why  not  much  rather 
call  me  a  Christian?  In  my  opinion  Luther  is  one  of  God's 
chosen  heralds  and  combatants,  who  searches  the  Scriptures  with 
greater  zeal  than  has  been  done  by  any  man  on  earth  for  the  last 
thousand  years.  What  care  I  that  the  Papists  call  me  along  with 
him  a  heretic  ?  Not  one,  so  long  as  the  popedom  has  lasted,  has 
attacked  it  with  the  same  manly  immovable  soul  as  he  has  done ; 
and  this  I  say  without  offence  to  others.  But  whose  act  is  this? 
God's  or  Luther's?  Ask  Luther  himself;  without  doubt  he  will 
tell  you  God's.  Wliy  then  do  you  ascribe  the  doctrine  which 
other  men  teach,  to  Luther,  seeing  that  he  himself  ascribes  it  to 
God  ;  that  he  advances  nothing  new,  nothing  but  that  which  is 
contained  in  the  eternal  unchangealile  Word  of  God.  It  is  this 
that  he  richly  forwards  to  the  light  of  day ;  thereby  he  makes 
known  to  poor  wandering  Christians  their  heavenly  treasure,  and 
values  as  little  what  the  enemies  of  God  dare  do  against  it,  as  he 
does  their  malignant  looks  and  angry  threats.  Yet  I  shall  not 
bear  Luther's  name,  for  I  have  read  but  little  of  his  doctrine,  and 
have  purposely  abstained  from  a  perusal  of  his  books.  Wliat 
however  of  his  writings  I  have  seen,  in  so  far  as  these  concern 
the  doctrines  and  thoughts  of  Scripture,  this,  in  my  opinion,  is  so 
well  proved  and  established  in  them,  that  it  will  be  no  easy 


FIRST  RELATION  TO  LUTHER  7-3 

task  for  any  man  to  overthrow  it.  I  know  that  in  some  things 
he  yields  nmeh  to  the  weak ;  for  example,  in  his  small  work  upon 
the  Ten  Lepers  he  yields  something,  as  I  have  been  told,  to  the 
confessional,  giving  it  to  be  understood  that  one  ought  to  present 
himself  before  the  priest,  although  this  cannot  be  educed  from 
the  narrative.  But  to  those  who  obstinately  close  their  under- 
standings against  those  views  of  Scripture,  which  he  and  others 
at  this  day  ailvance,  to  these  he  yields  nothing,  no,  not  a  hairs- 
breadth  ;  and  of  what  use  is  it  yielding  to  such?  they  are  inveterate 
unbelievers,  condemned  in  their  own  consciences.  Therefore, 
dear  Christians,  let  not  the  name  of  Christ  be  changed  into  the 
name  of  Luther;  for  Luther  has  not  died  for  us,  but  he  teaches 
us  to  know  Him  from  whom  alone  our  salvation  comes.  If  Luther 
preaches  Christ,  he  does  it  as  I  do ;  although,  God  be  praised  for  it, 
an  innumerable  multitude,  much  more  than  by  me  and  by  others, 
have  been  converted  to  God  through  him,  for  God  metes  out  t(j 
every  man  as  He  will.  For  my  part,  I  shall  bear  no  other  name 
but  that  of  my  Captain,  Jesus  Chnst,  whose  soldier  I  am.  No 
man  can  esteem  Luther  higher  than  I  do.  Yet  I  testify  before 
God  and  all  men,  that  I  never,  at  any  time,  wrote  to  him,  nor  he 
to  me,  nor  has  anything  l)een  done  to  open  up  a  correspondence 
l)etween  us.  I  have  purposely  abstained  from  all  conx?spondence 
with  him,  not  that  I  feared  any  man  on  this  account,  but  because 
I  would  have  it  apjjcar  how  uniform  the  Spirit  of  God  is,  in  so 
far  that  we,  who  are  far  distant  from  each  other,  and  have  held 
no  communication,  are  yet  of  the  same  mind,  and  this  without 
the  slightest  concert.  But  I  will  not  be  so  bold  as  to  place 
myself  by  the  side  of  Luther,  for  each  of  us  works  according  to 
the  ability  given  us  of  God." 

Zwingli  had  under-stood,  through  his  friendly  relations  with 
Wilhelm  de  Falconil)US,  Secretaiy  of  the  Swiss  Papal  Legate, 
that  the  Tope  intended  to  publi.sh,  in  a  .special  bull,  the  excom- 
munication already  pronounced  on  Luther.  He  resolved  to 
employ  every  means  in  his  power  to  tui-n  his  Holiness  from  this 
design.  He  communicated  his  intention  to  his  iVieiid  Myconius 
by  letter.  "I  shall,"  says  he,  wait  to-monow  iipou  tlie  Papal 
Commi-ssioner,  Wilhelm,  (who,  in  the  absence  of  tlie  Legate, 
transacted  the  business  of  the  Holy  See.)  and  shall  give  him  the 
advice,  if  he  .speak  on  the  subject  as  he  lately  did,  to  warn  tho 


76  IN  THE  SCHOOL  OF  THE  CROSS. 

Pope  against  an  excommunication  of  Luther,  for  I  foresee  that 
the  Germans  will  only  despise  the  bull,  as  well  as  the  Pope  him- 
self. Let  not  your  courage  sink ;  there  will  not  fail  in  our  days 
people  to  preach  Christ  fully,  and  who  will  joyfully  give  their  lives 
a  sacrifice  to  Him,  even  although  they  know  beforehand  that,  as 
has  happened  long  ago,  they  will  be  blasphemed  after  their 
death  as  heretics,  traitors,  and  villains.  As  for  me,  I  expect 
for  myself,  as  a  victim  devoted  to  death,  the  worst  from  all, 
clergy  as  well  as  laity,  and  I  pray  to  Christ  for  the  grace  to  meet 
what  may  befall  me  with  manly  courage,  and  that  He  may  either 
uphold  me,  or  break  me  in  pieces,  Avho  am  but  His  poor  vessel, 
as  shall  seem  good  unto  Him.  I  will,  if  the  bolt  of  excommuni- 
cation strike  me,  think  of  the  holy  Hilarius,*  who  was  expelled 
from  Gaul  to  Africa,  and  on  Pope  Lucius,'f  who  w^as  driven  away, 
but  received  back  with  honour.  Verily,  I  do  not  liken  myself 
to  these,  yet  the  undeserved  fate  of  so  many  worthy  men  must 
console  me;  and  if  I  held  it  allowable  to  boast,  I  should  rejoice 
to  suffer  shame  for  the  name  of  Christ.  Yet  let  him  that  standeth 
take  heed  lest  he  fall."  This  step  having  met  with  no  success, 
Zwingli  tried  another;  he  sent  his  first  anonymous  publication 
to  the  press,  entitled,  "  Advice  of  one  who  desires  to  see  the  char- 
acter of  the  Pope  and  of  Christianity  preserved."  In  this  publi- 
cation he  earnestly  warns  the  Pope  against  taking  violent  mea- 
sures against  Luther,  and  he  closes  by  expressing  his  conviction 
that  in  every  case  "  truth  and  the  doctrine  of  Christ  tvill  come  off 
victoriously." 


5.  Zwingli  in  the  School  of  the  Ceoss — Increasing  Numbers 
OF  THE  Friends  of  Evangelical  Truth. 

Zwingli  had  scarcely  been  a  year  engaged  in  his  reforming- 
labours  in  Zurich,  when  he  was  put  under  the  cross,  that  he 
might  thus  exercise  and  prove  himself  in  "  the  imitation  of 
Christ."  In  August  1519  he  visited,  for  the  purpose  of  resusci- 
tating his  exhausted  bodily  powers,  after  his  severe  labours,  the 

*  Hilarius  became  Bishop  of  Poitiers,  a.d.  350,  but  was  forced  into  banish- 
ment on  account  of  his  zeal  for  orthodoxy. 

i  Lucius  I.,  who  occupied  the  Papal  chair  a, p.  252. 


IN  THE  SCHOOL  OF  THE  CROSS.  77 

mineral  waters  of  ri'iefter,  situated  in  a  dreadful  ravine  of  tlie 
Galanda  mountains.     Here  he  formed  a  friendship  with  the  poet 
and  professor,  Egentius  of  Freiburg  (in  Breisgau),  who  visited 
the  springs  with  the  same  object  in  view.     The  days,  however, 
of  relaxation  and  recreation  were  not  to  last  long  for  the  Reformer. 
From  Zurich  he  received  the  harrowing  intelligence  that  the 
plague,  M-hich  was  traversing   Europe  from  the  eastward,  and 
which  had  not  spared  the  highest  valleys  of  Switzerland,  had 
invaded  his  own  parish.     The  zealous  pastor,  mindful  of  the 
duties  of  his  high  calling,  hasted  homewards,  to  extend  to  the 
afflicted  members  of  his  flock  the  consolations  of  the  Gospel. 
His  brother  Andrew,  whom  he  had  living  with  him  in  his  own 
house  to  guide  his  studies,  he  sent  off  to  Wildhaus,  that  he  might 
thereby  the  better  escape  infection.     Zwingli  himself,  with  heroi- 
cal  courage,  visited  the  sick  and  the  dying  without  intermission, 
and  supplied  them,  in  this  the  hour  of  their  extremest  need,  with 
the  rich  consolations  of  the  Gospel.     In  his  sermons  he  raised 
the  sinking  hearts  of  his  ten'ified  congregation  with  the  promises 
of  the  "Word  of  Life,  and  pointed  them  to  Christ,  who  quickens 
the  weary  and  llea^y  laden.     ^lany  among  his  peojile  trembled 
for  the  life  of  their  faithful  pastor,  as  they  saw  him  moving  about 
amidst  the  thickly  flying  darts  of  death,  himself  bearing  round  the 
cup  of  salvation  ;  for  "  the  great  death,"  as  the  name  of  this  pesti- 
lence is,  in  the  mouths  of  the  common  people,  cut  down  in  Zurich 
alone,  from  August  1.519  to  Candlemas  1520,  two  thousand  five 
hundred.    "  I  rejoice  greatly,"  wrote  Conrad  Erunner  (of  Wesen), 
from  Basle,  that  thou  standest  untouched  and  unharmed  by  the 
arrows  of  death  which  are  flying  around.    But  my  joy  w^ill  not  be 
free  of  anxiety  so  long  as  thou  daily  exposest  thyself  to  gi-eat  peril 
by  visiting  the  sick  of  the  plague.  Forget  not,  while  bringing  conso- 
lation to  others,  to  take  care  for  thine  own  life."     The  anxiety  of 
Z^vingli's  friends  was  but  too  well-founded,  for,  at  the  end  of  Sep- 
tember, he  himself  Ijecame  a  victim  to  the  disease.    What  a  grief 
to  his  flock,  when  they  saw  their  faithful  pa.stor  chained  to  a  sick, 
it  might  be  a  dying  bed.     The  feelings  which  oppressed  the 
friends  of  evangelical  truth  at  a  distance  by  the  intelligence  of 
his  sickness  are  thus  expressed  in  a  letter  which  Dr  Hedio  wrote 
to  Zwingli :  "  We  were  deeply  aftlicted  when  we  heard  that  this 
murderous  disease  had  seized  you  also,  for  who  would  not  grieve 


78  IN  THE  SCHOOL  OF  TPIE  CROSS. 

if  the  saviour  of  his  country,  if  the  trumpet  of  the  gospel,  if  the 
courageous  lierald  of  the  truth  shoukl  be  struck  clown  in  the 
prime  of  life,  high  in  hope,  and  in  the  midst  of  his  usefulness. 
The  feelings  of  his  own  soul  on  his  being  seized,  the  Reformer 
poured  forth  in  the  following  Hymn  : — 

On  the  Commencement  of  his  Sichiess. 

My  humble  prayer,  O  Father,  hear, 

O  help  me  in  this  strait; 
With  heavy  foot  grim  Death  draws  near. 

And  thunders  at  my  gate. 

()  Thou,  who  in  the  stormy  fight, 

Did'st  hold  in  check  his  power; 
Stand,  Christ,  I  pray  Thee,  hy  my  side. 

And  help  me  in  this  hour. 

My  Father,  if  it  he  Thy  will. 

Do  Thou  ordain  once  more, 
That  the  destroying  angel  still 

Pass  me  in  safety  o'er. 

O  cause  mine  agony  to  cease, 

Pull  out  the  dart  that  burns. 
That  grants  me  not  an  hour  of  peace, 

And  rest  to  imi-est  turns. 

But  if  my  sun  is  to  descend, 

At  mid-da}^  to  the  tomb, 
O!  do  Thou  resignation  send — 

Prepare  me  for  my  doom. 

What  doom  ?     Thou  shalt  me  from  this  earth 

Withdraw  me  in  Thy  love, 
And  death  itself  shall  be  my  birth 

Into  the  bliss  above. 

As  in  the  potter's  forming  hand 

The  clay  is  at  the  wheel ; 
Thus  life  or  death's  at  Thy  command — 

'Tis  Thine  to  kill  or  heal. 

My  soul  in  resignation 

"  Do  all  Thy  pleasui'c"  saith. 
Thy  will  shall  be  salvation, 

Be  it  in  life  or  death. 


IN  THE  SCHOOL  OF  THE  CROSS.  79 

His  complaint  iuciva.sed,  his  stri'iigth  Id't  him,  hut  liis  heart 
sought  and  found  consolation  in  God  through  .Tosus  Clirist,  and 
he  again  sings,  in  tho  midst  of  his  cah\mity  : — 

0)1  his  Sickness  Increasinrf. 

Comfort,  O  Lord,  I  seek  liv  Thee, 

Tlie  i)ains  they  are  incrensin^. 
The  might  of  sickness  presses  me, 

And  woe  my  lieart  is  seizing ; 

0  Thou,  Consoler,  Tliee  I  seek, 
Confirm  and  rheer  Thy  creature  weak. 

With  comfort  from  Christ's  wounds. 

Yes,  Great  Kedeemerl  at  death's  gates 

Thou  giv'st  to  liim  assistance, 
Who  faithfully  ui)on  Thee  waits 

With  undismayed  persistence. 
Who  finds  <lclight  in  Thee  alone. 
And  for  Thyself  without  a  nu)an, 
Would  gladly  quit  the  worhl. 

My  tongue  is  withered  and  dumb. 

Each  sense  in  torpor  lying, 
Ls,  then,  the  end  of  all  things  come, 

And  am  I  now  a-dying  ? 
Then.  Mighty  Champion  !  stretch  Thy  hand. 
'Tis  time  Thyself  the  contest  grand 
To  end  which  I've  begun. 

1  see,  indeed,  with  dreadful  rage. 
That  Satan  on  me  presses, 

While  me,  too  weak  the  Avar  to  wage. 

He  more  and  more  abases  ; 
But  he'll  Thy  servant  contjuer  never. 
Because  his  faith  rests  on  Thee  ever, 
So  then  let  hell  still  storm. 

The  faithful,  as  Bullinger  mentions,  were  deeply  distressed  at 
the  sickness  of  their  dear  pastor,  and  called  to  God  in  earnest 
prayer  that  He  would  he  pleased  to  raise  him  up  again.  The  Lord 
heard  the  prayers  of  His  people,  and  raised  His  servant  from  his 
bed  of  sickness,  that  he  might  further  contend  for  the  honour  of 
God  and  the  salvation  in  Christ  Je.sus.  The  joyous  feeling  of 
gi'atitiule  which  filled  his  bosom  on  his  recovery  he  gives  expres- 
sion t(»  in  the  following  Hymn  of  grateful  prai'se  : — 


80  IN   THE  SCHOOL  OF  THE  CROSS. 

On  his  Recovery  to  Health. 

I'm  sound, — through  Thy  great  goodness ; 

My  God  Thou'st  made  me  whole, 
My  speech,  although  in  rudeness, 

Will  loudly  Thee  extol; 
To  Thee,  who  me  once  more. 

Hast  raised,  to  death  devoted, 

My  soul  shall  be  devoted 
More  than  it  was  before. 

But  had  death  in  his  fetter 

Securely  captured  me, 
I  were  now  where  'tis  better 

I  were,  O  Lord,  by  Thee; 
Now  it  remains  again 

The  bands  of  life  to  sever. 

When  none  is  to  deliver, 
Perhaps  in  greater  pain. 

Yet  on  I  go  with  gladness, 

Since  'tis  Thy  holy  will. 
With  joy  yet  mixed  with  sadness, 

My  journey  to  fulfil ; 
To  wage  'gainst  sin  the  strife. 

And  when  life's  toils  are  ended, 

There  will  at  length  b'  extended 
To  me  the  crown  of  life. 

The  intelligence  of  his  recovery  filled  his  friends  far  and  near 
with  the  greater  rapture,  because  they  had  shortly  before  received 
the  report  that  he  had  sunk  under  the  virulence  of  the  malady. 
Hedio  wrote  from  Basle  :  "  Like  a  suddenly  appearing  angel  of 
consolation  came  Eudolph  Collin  to  us,  assuring  us  that  we  had 
no  cause  to  be  cast  down  on  your  account,  for  you  were  now  safe." 
Wilibald  Pirkheimer,  of  Nurnberg,  says,  in  a  letter  to  Zwingli : 
"  If  my  mourning  over  your  sickness  was  great,  my  joy  at  your 
recovery  was  greater.  Let  us  sing  praises  to  God,  who  strikes 
the  wounds  and  who  heals  them  again,  who  kills  and  makes 
alive,  and  who  has  called  back  your  soul  from  the  grave.  His 
name  be  praised  for  evermore."  William  de  Falconibus,  the 
legate's  secretary,  writes :  "  If  the  gratification  of  a  wish  ever  filled 
me  with  pleasure,  it  was  far  exceeded  by  what  I  felt  when  I 
heard  of  the  return  of  one  from  the  gates  of  death,  for  whom  I 
have  so  great  a  longing,  that  I  feel  as  if  a  part  of  my  soul  would 


IN  THE  SCHOOL  oP  THE  CROSS.  81 

tear  itself  away  IVoiu  me  to  go  to  you."  The  General- Vicar, 
John  Faber,  also,  who  at'terwanls  became  one  of  Zwin<^li"s  most 
virulent  enemies,  joined  himself  to  the  crowd  of  congratulating 
friends.  "  I  heartily  rejoice,"  dearest  Huldreich,  "  that  you  have 
been  delivered  out  of  the  jaws  of  the  nuirderous  ]»lague,  for  1 
entertain  towards  you  so  lively  a  friendship  that  nothing  in  this 
world  would  pain  me  more  than  the  intelligence  that  any  cala- 
mity had  befallen  you,  which  God  in  his  mercy  avert.  And  this 
love  you  well  deserve,  for  you  Avork  with  such  zeal  in  the 
vineyard  of  the  Lord  that  when  you  are  in  danger  a  calamity 
impends  the  comnnmity.  The  Lord  himself  knows,  however, 
Mhom  He  will  stir  up  by  bitter  trials  to  a  more  earnest  striving 
after  a  better  and  a  more  enduring  inheritance.  Such  a  trial 
you  have  experienced  from  your  heavenly  Father."  Zwingli 
received  many  other  congratulations  on  his  restitution  to  health, 
even  from  the  distant  Netherlands  and  from  Poland.  These  abun- 
dantly prove  to  us  what  an  important  position  he  had  already 
obtained  in  the  Christian  Church,  both  at  home  and  abroad.  But 
his  joy,  in  which  so  many  others  participated,  Zwingli  was  not 
permitted  to  taste  unalloyed;  for  the  pestilence  dealt  him  severe 
wounds.  In  Basle  there  died  two  of  his  best  friends,  Conrad 
Brunner,  who  had  counselled  him  to  spare  his  health,  and  also 
John  Amerbach.  Hedio  mentions  their  deaths  to  him  in  the 
words,  "  whom  the  Lord  loves,  He  takes  early  to  himself"  His 
brother  Andrew,  whom  Zwingli  had  sent  to  AViidhaus  on  the 
breaking  out  of  the  plague  in  Zurich,  was  seized  by  the  destroy- 
ing angel  and  carried  away.  Zwingli  wept  "  the  tears  of  a 
woman"  over  his  beloved  brother.  In  his  own  person,  also,  he 
for  a  long  time  felt  the  bad  effects  of  the  malady.  "  The  plague," 
lie  wrote  to  his  friend  Myconius,  "  has  so  weakened  my  memory 
and  intellect,  that  I  sometimes  in  preaching  altogether  lose  the 
thread  of  my  discourse;  all  my  members  are  oppressed  with  an 
indescribable  weakness."  At  the  same  time,  he  was  annoyed  by 
pecuniary  embarrassments.  The  receipts  from  his  living  were  so 
small  that  it  was  impossible  for  him  longer  to  support  himself 
and  his  two  assistants  upon  them.  Yet  he  refused  to  accept  the 
presents  which  would  have  richly  flowed  in  upon  him  from  many 
of  his  friends  and  admirers.  He  half  resolved  to  return  to  Ein- 
siedeln,  to  free  himself  from   his  financial  difficulties.     A  noble 


82  IN  THE  SCHOOL  OP  THE  CROSS. 

and  friendly  act  on  the  part  of  Dr.  Engelhard,  preacher  at  the 
Frauen  Minster,  and  canon  at  the  great  Minster,  alone  preserved 
the  Eeformer  to  Zurich.  He  resigned  his  canonship  at  the  great 
Minster  in  Zwingli's  favour,  who  thus  entered  into  the  number 
of  the  canons,  while  he  continued  to  hold  his  oflice  as  Leut-priest. 
Thus  Zwingli's  income  was  not  only  raised,  but  a  greater  influ- 
ence among  the  canons  was  secured  to  him,  which  was  the  more 
necessary,  as  a  part  of  these  gentlemen  already  looked  with  an  eye 
by  no  means  favourable  on  the  Eeformer  and  his  labours.  They 
had,  in  fact,  already  presented  to  the  provost  a  complaint  in  writ- 
ing against  him,  in  which  they  loudly  expressed  their  lamenta- 
tions that  he  concerned  himself  so  little  about  the  funds  of  the 
foundation.  "  Instead  of  inculcating  on  his  hearers  the  payment 
of  tithes  as  a  religious  duty,  he  denies,"  said  they,  "  their  divine 
origin  altogether,  and  represents  their  strict  exaction  as  a  tyranny. 
He  thereby  seeks  to  gain  the  confidence  of  the  people  in  the  same 
measure  in  which  he  makes  the  monks  hated  and  despised  as 
cap-divines."  These  canons,  indeed,  received  no  countenance  to 
their  complaint  from  the  provost,  who  felt  ashamed  even  to  com- 
municate it  to  Zwingii;  yet  it  shewed  their  dispositions  towards 
him.  It  was  not,  however,  alone  within  the  chapter  that  the 
decidedly  evangelical  direction  of  Zwingli's  labours  excited  dis- 
like and  enmity;  these  feelings  exhibited  themselves  in  a  far 
more  repulsive  manner  beyond  this  circle. 

Zwingli's  worst  enemies  were  the  mercenaries  and  monks. 
Little  as  these  people  dared  to  meet  him  in  open  fight,  they  were 
yet  not  the  less  busy  in  circulating  against  him  the  most  absurd 
calumnies,  and  laying  all  manner  of  snares  to  entrap  him,  and 
even  take  him,  if  possible,  out  of  the  way  altogether. 

From  all  parts  of  Switzerland  and  Suabia  Zwingli's  friends 
sent  him  accounts  of  the  nefarious  proceedings  of  these  rancorous 
enemies ;  far  and  wide  the  closely  bound  association  spread  itseK, 
of  licentious  monks  and  despicable  mercenaries,  against  the  cham- 
pion of  truth.  "  My  bile,"  writes  Myconius  from  Lucerne,  "  is 
continually  roused  against  these  serpents,  who  spurt  out  their 
venom  against  you.  I  can  in  truth  say,  that  nothing  annoys 
me  more  than  to  hear  you  or  the  gospel  maligned.  For  what  do 
you  teach  but  the  gospel  ?  They  say  the  afi'airsof  Switzerland 
are  none  of  your  business.     He  has  nothing  else  to  do,  say  they, 


FRIENDS  OF  EVANGELICAL  TllUTH.  83 

but  to  oxpouiul  and  preach  the  gospel  to  the  people,  with 
exhortation  and  reproof,  and  this  in  all  brevity ;  and  he  ought  not 
to  repeat  the  same  things  in  every  sermon,  as  if  his  sole  ol)ject 
were  to  make  himself  hated  through  tlu'  whole  of  Switzerland. 
"What  means  this  but  in  plain  words,  Zwingli  ought  not  to  be 
pastor,  priest,  and  ambassador  for  Christ  ?  Those  who  employ 
such  language  have  great  numbers  of  the  clergy  on  their  side, 
who  think  that  priests  should  be  only  priests,  and  ought  not  to 
mix  themselves  up  in  worldly  aff'airs ;  our  lords,  say  they,  have  so 
nuich  wisdom  and  experience  among  themselves,  that  they  know 
best  what  to  do,  and  what  to  abstain  from  doing."  James  Salz- 
mann,  teacher  and  ecclesiastic  in  Clmr,  writes  :  "  It  is  my  prayer, 
which  I  put  up  with  many  others,  dear  Zwingli,  beloved  in 
Christ,  that  the  ^Vlmighty  may  stand  by  you  with  his  grace ;  that 
you  may  make  the  enemies  of  Christ  your  footstool.  Lately,  the 
guild-master,  Stapfer,  senior,  from  Zurich,  said  at  a  feast  here  on 
his  passing  through  the  town  on  a  journey  to  Venice  :  "  Zwingli 
is  the  father  of  three  children,  is  to  be  seen  dnink  at  night  on  the 
streets,  and  holds  pensions  not  only  from  the  Pope  but  from  the 
King  of  France  too.  You  are  said  to  have  once  exclaimed  in  a 
seiTuon,  '  Ave  Maria  is  as  much  as,  God  bless  thee,  Peggy.'"  John 
Zwick,  preacher  in  Constance,  wTote  to  him :  "  It  is  publicly 
reported  here  you  are  manied  to  the  daughter  of  the  Burgomaster. 
The  report  goes,  too,  which  comes  from  a  certain  priest,  that  you 
maintained  once  in  a  sermon,  that  adultery  is  in  certain  circum- 
stances lawful  For  my  part,  I  am  convinced  that  such  an  idea 
as  this  never  once  entered  your  head,  and  have  always  defended 
you,  notwithstanding  I  have  not  been  able  to  prevent  this 
result,  namely,  that  many  people  begin  to  lose  their  good  ojiinion 
of  you.  Several  barons  and  nol  )lemen,  who  formerly  held  you  in 
much  estimation,  from  the  time  that  they  heard  your  sermons  in 
Einsiedeln,  have  now  turned  against  you,  and  with  all  my 
cttorts  I  cannot  succeed  in  shaking  their  credence  in  the  priest, 
who,  they  maintain,  with  oaths  and  imprecations,  tells  no  lies." 

Such  and  the  like  calumnious  reports  Avere  vented  with  all 
eagerness  to  blast  the  character  of  Zwingli,  and  to  check  the 
preaching  of  the  gospel.  Wliat  were  his  own  thoughts  on  the 
subject  we  leam  from  the  following  passage  :  "  I  have  for  some 
time  past  heard  incredible  lies  told  about  me,  but  this  has  not 


84?  FRIENDS  OF  EVANGELICAL  TRUTH. 

grieved  me,  Ibr  I  have  always  kept  in  niiiid,  '  tlie  disciple  is  not 
greater  than  the  Master.'  If  they  lied  against  Christ,  it  is  no 
great  wonder  that  they  lie  against  thee,  Huldreich  Zwingli." 

His  enemies  perceiving  that  calumny  recoiled  upon  themselves, 
like  an  arrow  turned  back  by  some  invisible  hand  upon  him  who 
discharges  it,  determined  to  try  more  effective  measures  ;  poison 
or  the  poniard  must  free  them  from  the  hated  witness  of  the 
truth.  Myconius  writes  :  "  After  the  temporary  defeat  of  the 
priests  and  monks  in  Zurich,  and  the  passing  of  the  resolution 
against  pensions,  it  was  by  artifice  that  they  schemed  to  get  rid 
of  their  hated  opponent.  One  day  Zwingli  received  a  letter,  with- 
out name,  to  the  following  effect,  from  Suabia, — (Michael  Hum- 
melberger  of  Eavensburg,  as  afterwards  appeared,  was  the  author) : 
"  If  ever  thou  caredst  for  thy  life  care  for  it  now,  for  traps  and 
snares  are  set  for  thee,  and  environ  thee  on  every  side ;  deadly 
poison  lies  ready  to  take  thee  out  of  the  way.  The  perfidious 
wretches,  not  daring  to  attack  thee  openly,  have  fallen  upon  this 
means  to  remove  thee  from  the  earth,  and  will  put  poison,  secretly 
if  they  can,  into  thy  food.  Be  on  thy  guard,  then.  If  thou  art 
hungry,  eat  only  of  bread  wliich  thy  own  cook  has  baked ;  out  of 
thy  house,  thou  canst  not  luith  safety  eat  anything.  There  are 
people  within  the  walls  of  Zurich  who  will  do  all  their  possible 
to  destroy  thee.  Be  on  thy  guard,  my  dearest  God-beloved  Hul- 
dreich ;  be  on  thy  guard  as  thou  vainest  thy  life  ;  and  once 
again,  I  say,  take  care  of  the  motions  of  these  envenomed  though 
invisible  serpents,  and  believe  that  all  food  presented  thee  and 
not  prepared  in  thine  own  house  is  poisoned,  for  nowhere  art 
thou  safe  ;  every  place  is  fraught  with  danger.  How  I  came  to 
know  of  these  foul  designs,  and  what  oracle  discovered  them  to 
me,  thou  requirest  not  to  know  ;  but  it  is  truer  than  that  at  Delphi. 
But  the  priest  dare  neither  assert  plainly,  nor  write  it  with  impu- 
nity. Thy  shrewd  understanding  will  lead  thee  to  guess  whence 
this  warning  comes,  which  good-will  and  brotherly  love  to  thyself 
have  dictated  to  me.  In  haste,  from  Suabia.  "Whoever  I  am,  I 
am  thine;  thou  shalt  afterwards  know  me." 

But  not  by  poison  alone, — by  other  means  of  secret  murder 
they  followed  after  the  life  of  the  hated  Zwingli.  "  Not  an  hour 
passed,"  says  Myconius,  "that  did  not  give  birth  to  some  deep- 
laid  plot  amongst  the  laity  and  priests  against  the  life  of  the 


FKIENDS  OF  EVANGELICAL  TRUTH.  85 

apostle  of  truth  ami  righteousness.  I  pass  over  those  not  kiiDwii 
to  the  workl,  though  well  known  to  myself ;  I  enumerate  only  those 
well  known  to  the  public.  Once  there  came  a  man  at  midnight 
to  call  him  to  the  bed  of  a  dying  person.  The  assistant  gave  the 
answer,  that  Zwingli  could  not  be  roused  from  his  sleep,  for  he 
was  much  fatigued  by  the  previous  day's  labours  ;  he  himself 
would  go  for  liim.  This  the  man  would  on  no  account  permit, 
and  thereby  awakened  the  suspicion  of  some  secret  plot.  The 
assistant  shut  the  door  on  the  man,  pretending  he  would  go  and 
acquaint  Zwingli  with  his  wish,  and  left  him  standing  outside. 
On  the  morrow  they  learnt  that,  by  this  o})p()rtiniity,  Zwingli  was 
to  have  been  gagged,  thrown  into  a  ship,  and  carried  away.  Not 
long  afterwards,  a  hoi"se  was  kept  in  readiness  for  the  same  pur- 
pose. Again,  an  assassin  was  to  be  seen,  (a  Zuger,  as  was  said,) 
going  about  openly  in  the  town,  before  the  eyes  of  all,  with  a 
long  sword  hanging  at  lus  girdle,  with  which  he  was  to  have  cut 
douTi  Zwingli  if  he  met  him  on  the  street  by  chance.  The 
assassin  was  betrayed  and  apprehended,  but  escaped  out  of 
prisoiL  Two  drunken  inhabitants  of  Zurich,  whom  I  do  not 
name,  once  attacked  Zwingli's  house  during  the  night  with 
stones,  dashed  in  the  windows,  and  made,  what  with  oaths  and 
stones  together,  such  an  infernal  noise,  that  not  one  of  the  neigh- 
bours ventured  to  open  a  window.  Nor  did  they  desist  until  they 
ran  out  of  stones,  voice  and  strength.  The  burgomaster  was  made 
acquainted  with  the  assault.  In  the  morning  the  city-gates  were 
shut,  and  the  disturbers  of  the  peace  were  sought  for  by  armed 
men  in  every  hole  and  comer,  but  in  vain,  till  some  women  who 
knew  about  the  affair,  in  their  gamdity,  involuntarily  betrayed 
one,  (the  other  had  jdready  escaped.)  He  was  drawn  out  of  the 
wine  cask  of  a  certain  priest,  and  with  loud  reproaches  conducted 
to  prison.  After  a  long  consultation,  he  M'as  condemned  to 
imprisonment  for  life,  but  he  was  liberated  at  the  petition  of  the 
Bernese,  after  an  incarceration  of  a  few  weeks." 

It  was  the  habit  of  Zwingli  at  this  time  to  sup  at  a  friend's 
house,  or  in  the  guild- niom.s.  On  such  occa.sions,  he  was  con- 
ducted home  by  some  of  the  respectable  citizens,  with  the  view 
of  defending  him  fnjm  hariu  on  the  way,  without  his  knowing  the 
benevolent  intention  of  the  convoy  thus  given.  The  Council,  too, 
caused,  in  these  dangerous  times,  his  house  to  be  guarded     Yet, 


86  FEIENDS  OF  EVANGELICAL  TEUTH. 

if  the  eye  of  God  had  not  gTaciously  watched  over  His  faithful 
servant,  and  if  His  almighty  arm  had  not  defended  him,  all  the 
care  and  watchfulness  of  friends  would  have  been  in  vain. 

In  all  these  trials  and  persecutions,  Zwingli  found  a  rich  con- 
solation in  the  growing  numbers  of  his  warm-hearted  personal 
friends,  devoted,  like  himself,  to  the  cause  of  the  gospel.  In 
every  town  and  canton  of  Switzerland  men  came  forward,  who, 
animated  by  the  heroic  courage  and  surpassing  joy  which  Zwin- 
gli drew  fi'om  the  gospel,  recognised  it  as  a  power  of  God  to  make 
all  blessed  who  believe  it.  They  preached  it  according  to 
their  several  capacities.  In  St.  Gall,  there  laboured  in  the  cause 
of  the  gospel  the  friend  of  Zwingli's  youth,  Vadian;  in  Chur, 
Salzmann,  already  mentioned  ;  in  Schaft'hausen,  Sebastian  Wag- 
ner, surnamed  Hofmeister,  and,  at  a  later  period,  Erasmus 
Eitter  also  ;  in  Lucerne,  Oswald  Myconius,  and  the  canons 
Zimmermann  and  Kirchmeier;  in  Berne,  Francis  Kolb,  Sebas- 
tian Meier,  and  above  all,  Berchthold  Haller,  who  made  a  journey 
from  Berne  to  Zurich,  for  the  express  purpose  of  making  Zwin- 
gli's acquaintance,  and  of  confirming  his  own  faith  in  the  vicinity 
of  the  Lord's  chosen  vessel.  From  Schwyz,  the  state-clerk,  Stap- 
fer,  who  had  once  had  his  own  and  his  family's  bodily  wants 
supplied  by  the  kind  hand  of  Zwingli,  begged  that  he  would  now 
extend  to  him  the  bread  of  life.  In  Art,  (Canton  Schw;y'z)  Bal- 
thasar  Trachsler  proclaimed  the  gospel.  In  Solothurn,  the 
schoolmaster,  Macrin  or  Duerr,  was  faithfully  devoted  to  Zwingli. 
From  Freiburg,  (Uechtland),  the  organist,  Kotter,  writes  to  him: 
"  all  here  praise  with  one  voice  thy  undertaking  to  bring  to  light 
the  Word  of  God.  It  is  to  be  hoped  it  will  not  want  a  blessing." 
In  Basle,  Zwingli  had  also  many  friends  devoted  in  like  measure 
to  the  cause  of  the  Gospel.  In  1520  he  had  revisited  them  in 
the  company  of  his  former  master  George  Binzli  (now  parson  at 
Wesen)  and  on  this  occasion  had  gained  new  friends.  After  the 
departure,  first  of  Capito,  then  of  Hedio,  from  Basle  to  Mayence, 
and  from  thence  to  Strasburg,  John  (Ecolampadius  became  the 
principal  herald  of  the  truth  at  Basle.  Soon  after  his  arrival  in 
this  city,  he  wrote  to  Zwingli :  "  Whether  I  will  or  not,  I  cannot 
refrain  from  seeking  your  friendship,  that  I  may  be  quickened 
by  your  ardent  zeal.  Who  can  resist  loving  him  who  advances 
with  such  ardour  and  energy  the  cause  of  Christ?"  &c.  &c.     In 


FKIENDS  OF  EVANGELICAL  TRUTH.  87 

Strasburg  Zwingli  luul,  besides  Capito  and  Medio,  Bucev  as  an 
intimate  personal  friend.  In  Nurnberg  there  wi-re  liis  friends 
"Wilibald  I'irkheinier  and  Albreelit  Dnerer,  in  Frankfort,  I'rofessor 
Nesen  of  Hessen,  whom  Luther  visited  on  his  journey  to  Worms. 
Suabia  eontained,  in  abnost  every  town,  personal  friends  of 
Zwingli. 

While  all  these  eyed  Zwingli  as  a  guiding  star  or  beacon,  it  was 
above  all,  in  Germany  that  the  friends  of  evaiigebeal  truth  turned 
their  eyes  in  hope  to  the  Swiss  mountains,  as  Luther,  under  a 
cloud  of  outhiwry  and  excommunication,  vanished  so  mysteri- 
ously on  his  return  journey  from  Worms  (April,  1521).  The 
hopes  of  the  German.s  in  the  ultimate  victory  of  truth  lived  anew 
when  they  heard  with  what  vigour  and  zeal  Zwingli  was  pro- 
claiming the  truth  in  Switzerland,  and  with  what  intrepidity  he 
was  there  combatting  the  ravenous  wolves  in  sheep's  clothing 
who  ravaged  the  flock  of  Christ.  All  who  were  forced  to  flee 
from  CJermany  or  France  for  the  faith  turned  their  footsteps  to 
Zurich.  Thus,  one  day,  there  came  from  jNIayence  Otto  von 
Brunfels,  with  a  recommendatory  letter  from  Nesen  to  Zwingli. 
"  I  pray  you,  in  the  name  of  Christ,  to  receive  those  men  who 
are  forced  to  flee  before  a  corrupt  clergy.  If  you  help  this  man 
with  your  fellow-citizens,  who,  as  we  well  knoAV,  are  freer  than 
all  other  Germans,  you  do  a  sei-vice  not  only  to  religion  but  to 
learning."'  At  Avignon  a  bare-footed  monk  leaves  his  cloister, 
in  consequence  of  the  persecutions  to  which  he  is  subjected  by 
his  brethren  for  his  inclination  to  evangelical  doctrines,  and  rides 
one  evening  on  a  she-ass  through  the  gates  of  Zurich,  that  he 
might  see  and  converse  with  Zwingli,  to  whom  he  had  been 
recommended  by  Haller  of  Berne.  After  being  farther  advanced 
by  him  in  the  knowledge  of  evangelical  truth,  and  especially 
instnicted  as  to  the  inadmissiliility  of  the  adoration  of  the  saints, 
the  pilgrim  thanked  God,  and  proceeded  to  Germany.  Who  was 
this?  It  was  the  aftenvards  famous  Lambert  of  Avignon,  who 
became  Professor  of  Theolog}'^  at  Strasburg  and  then  at  JMarluirg, 
and  who,  in  the  latter  i)Osition,  contributed  so  materially  to  the 
success  of  the  Keformation  in  Hessen. 

Tluis  all  hearts  that  had  a  longing  after  evangelical  truth 
inclined  in  love  and  admiration  towards  Zwingli,  Justin  the  pro- 
portion that  the  enemies  oftln'  tiuili  hated  him. 


HOW  HE  REGARDED  HIS  LABOURS  AND  TRIALS. 


6.    How  ZWINGLI  PtEGARDED  HIS  LABOURS  AND  TRIALS,  AS  SHEWN 

IN  Letters  to  his  Brothers  and  Friends. 

Having  thus  reviewed  the  multifarious  labours  and  manifold 
trials  which  chequered  the  life  of  the  Eeformer  within  the  above 
space  of  time,  (from  1519  to  1523,)  we  shall  cast  a  glance  at  the 
manner  in  which  he  himself  regarded  these,  and  see  from  what 
source  he  derived  courage  to  hazard,  and  fortitude  to.  endure  his 
trials.  He  gives  us  on  this  point  a  solution,  with  the  greatest 
candour,  in  a  letter  addressed  to  his  brothers,  under  date  17th 
September  1522,  and  in  some  other  letters  to  his  friends. 

"  Dear  brothers,"  he  writes,  "  I  hear  how  your  hearts  have  been 
disturbed  by  the  infamous  reports  which,  contrary  to  all  truth, 
have  been  spread  abroad  about  me,  but  to  which  I  know,  in  your 
brotherly  love  towards  me,  you  will  lend  no  ear,  as  you  know  me 
better.  Yet  you  desired  to  hear  from  myself  upon  the  subject, 
and  were  displeased  that  I  have  not  answered  your  wish  sooner. 
Know  then,  first,  that  I  am  well  informed  how  it  goes  with  you ; 
for  I  often  make  inquiries  about  you.  Wlien  I  hear  that  ye  live 
by  the  labour  of  your  hands,  as  your  fathers  before  you,  I  rejoice, 
because  I  see  that  you  preserve  the  nobility  you  derive  from 
Adam.  As  often,  however,  as  I  hear  that  some  of  you,  at  the 
risk  of  body  and  soul,  serve  for  pay  in  foreign  wars,  this  grieves 
me  to  the  heart.  I  lament  that  out  of  honest  peasants  and  field 
labourers  you  make  yourselves  robbers  and  murderers,  for  the 
mercenaries  are  nothing  better.  Of  those  who  attend  to  their 
domestic  economy,  and  rule  their  servants  well,  I  have  the  best 
opinion ;  but  to  those  who  setoff  to  the  wars  I  can  prophesy  nothing 
else  but  misery  and  eternal  damnation.  God  grant  you  the 
same  mind  in  this  matter  as  I  have,  so  that  ye  may  never  do  the 
like  again,  as  indeed  you  have  promised  to  me.  Ye  should  also 
give  heed  that  I  do  faithfully  the  work  to  which  God  has  called 
me,  let  it  go  with  me  as  it  may,  without  letting  myself  be  daunted 
by  its  unspeakable  difficulties,  and  without  regard  to  men  who 
will  not  bend  and  humble  themselves  to  the  wholesome  work  of 
God.  I  know  very  well  what  my  good  friend,  my  lord  of  Fisch- 
ingen,*  our  cousin,  means.     I  should  go  cautiously  to  work,  else 

*  The  brother  of  Zwingli's  mother,  vide  page  1. 


HOW  HE  REGARDED  HIS  LABOURS  AND  TRIALS.  89 

crreat  miscliief  mav  befall  me.  God  reward  the  kiud-liearted 
man  for  his  good-will,  lie  has  over  loved  me  as  his  own  child, 
and  I  know  that  his  warning  Hows  from  the  purest  aftection. 
But  be  assured  no  danger  can  approach  me  which  I  have  not 
well  weighed.  I  know  that  my  own  strength  is  not  suflicient, 
and  1  know  just  as  well  how  strong  they  arc  ^^■ho  contend  against 
the  doctrine  of  God.  I  can,  however,  like  Paul,  do  all  through 
Christ  strengthening  me.  For  what  is  my  speech,  how  could  it 
avail  to  bring  any  sinner  back  to  the  way  of  lifi',  if  the  power 
and  the  Spirit  of  God  did  not  work  with  it?  Sui)pose,  also,  that 
I  were  to  hold  my  peace,  woukl  not  another  do  that  which  God 
bids  me  do,  while  1  should  be  severely  punished  l)y  God,  like 
the  lying  son  in  Matthew  (chap.  xxi.  38),  who  said  to  his  father, 
I  will  go  into  the  vineyard,  and  yet  M-ent  not.  God  will  go  on  to 
do  as  lie  has  hitherto  done,  namely,  to  regenerate  a  corrupt  world 
by  His  Word.  To  the  iuliabitants  of  Sodom,  to  the  Ninevites, 
to  the  cornipt  generation  that  lived  at  the  times  of  Noah,  to  the 
children  of  Israel  when  they  were  sunk  the  deepest  in  idolatry, 
God  sent  His  prophets  to  proclaim  His  truth.  They  who  turned 
from  their  evil  ways  were  spared.  They  who  despised  His  Word 
were  destroyed  or  taken  captive.  Now,  do  we  not  see  in  our  own 
times  corruption  gaining  such  a  head  in  all  lands,  and  in  all 
ranks,  as  to  cause  us  to  shudder  at  it  ?  Yet  if  in  the  midst  of 
all  this  corruption,  a  revelation  is  made  of  God's  Word  anew,  is 
not  this  a  plain  proof  that  such  revelation  comes  from  God,  who 
wills  not  that  the  creatures  whom  He  has  purchased  with  his  own 
blood  should  be  lost  in  such  multitudes,  and  should  so  miserably 
perish.  Now  set  the  great  human  corru])tion,  and  the  true  Word 
of  God,  the  one  against  the  other,  you  will  find  that  the  former 
wiU  not  let  itself  be  brought  into  contact  with  or  touched  by  the 
latter.  K  in  these  circumstances,  he  into  whose  mouth  the  Word 
of  the  Lord  is  put  yields  or  neglects  his  duty,  he  must  account 
for  those  who  are  lost,  seeing  that,  as  Isaiah  says,  he  saw  the 
sword  coming,  and  gave  no  warning.  If,  on  the  other  hand,  he 
opposes  a  sinl'iU  and  arrogant  world,  he  is  driven  from  it.  he  is 
pursued  with  curses  and  maledictions,  nay,  killed.  Wliich  now, 
think  ye,  is  the  better  lot  of  the  two?  U  it  better  that  I  should 
kee])  silence,  that  the  evil  which  I  ought  to  ward  oil"  should  get 
the  upper  hand,  and  that  against  a  short  space  of  worldly  honour 


90  HOW  HE  REGAEDED  HIS  LABOUES  AND  TRIALS. 

and  repose,  I  sliould  be  the  devil's  servant  ?  I  know  that  your 
answer  to  this  will  be,  No,  but  that  I  ought  to  rebuke  faults 
with  greater  mildness.  But  tell  me ;  think  ye  the  vices  of  the 
present  time  to  be  so  small  that  my  words  appear  too  rough  ?  If 
you  think  so,  you  err  greatly.  They  are  so  great  that  the  sternest 
words  of  the  prophet  are  not  enough  to  rebuke,  nor  the  hottest 
wrath  of  God  enough  to  punish  them.  The  menace  of  Jonah 
would  better  suit  our  vices  :  '  Yet  forty  days  and  Nineveh  will  be 
overthrown.'  Therefore  hold  your  peace.  I  fear  God  much  more 
in  this  respect,  that  I  say  too  little  than  that  I  say  too  much.  Or 
do  you  desire  rather  that  I  lose  mine  honour,  my  means,  my  life, 
for  the  salvation  of  many  good  and  pious  souls,  and  that  mine  own 
soul  be  raised  by  His  grace  to  eternal  felicity  ?  You  say,  Yes  !  but 
it  would  be  for  us  a  great  shame  if  you  were  put  to  death  and 
burnt,  even  although  we  knew  that  wrong  was  done  you ;  then  I 
answer,  Christ,  whose  soldier  I  am,  says,  Luke  vi.  22,  23  :  'Blessed 
are  ye  when  men  shall  hate  you,  and  when  they  shall  separate 
you  from  their  company,  and  shall  reproach  you,  and  cast  out 
your  name  as  evil,  for  the  Son  of  Man's  sake  :  Eejoice  ye  in  that 
day,  and  leap  for  joy:  for,  behold,  your  reward  is  great  in  heaven.' 
Behold,  then,  the  more  my  name  is  evil  spoken  of  before  men 
for  the  sake  of  God,  the  more  it  is  esteemed  by  God.  And  so  it 
shall  be.  He  that  will  come  to  God  must  look  to  that  which  He 
will,  not  to  that  which  men  will,  who  cannot  save  him,  but  who 
are  quite  competent  to  sink  him  in  everlasting  damnation.  The 
body  they  can  kill,  but  not  the  soul,  and  all  they  who  kiU  us  in 
the  body  for  the  Lord's  sake  slay  their  own  souls,  be  they  who 
they  may, — king,  emperor,  pope,  bishop,  or  others.  The  gospel 
of  Christ  (the  good  tidings  which  God  hath  spoken  to  man  through 
his  Son),  has  the  quality  derived  from  the  blood  of  Christ  per- 
petuated even  to  the  present  hour,  that  it  is  most  effective  in  its 
application  and  spreads  itself  most  under  persecution.  Christ 
has  shed  His  blood  for  our  salvation.  Now,  do  you  consider  that 
man  to  be  a  true-hearted  soldier  of  the  cross,  who  will  not  shed 
his  blood  for  his  Lord  and  Captain,  and  who  flinches  where  his  Lord 
Ijefore  him,  and  for  him,  dared  death ;  the  true  soldier  of  Christ 
is  ready  to  let  his  head  be  blown  to  atoms  for  His  Master's  sake. 
For  he  who  is  ashamed  of  Christ  and  his  name  before  men,  of  him 
also  will  the  Son  of  man  be  ashamed  before  His  heavenly  Father. 


HOW  HE  REGARDED  HIS  LABOURS  AND  TRIALS.  91 

Therefore,  dear  brothers,  if  any  man  tell  you  that  I  sin  in  respect 
of  pride,  intemperance,  \incleanness,  believe  what  they  say  ;  for, 
alas  !  I  am  too  much  inclined  by  nature  to  these,  and  such  like 
vices.  But  if  any  tell  you  that,  for  money's  sake,  I  can  teach 
false  doctrine,  then  believe  it  not,  not  ulthou^^h  it  should  be  con- 
tirnied  by  oath,  for  1  am  under  obligutious  to  no  master  on  earth, 
not  by  a  single  heller.  The  pecuniary  obligation  I  was  under  to 
the  Romish  I'ope  has  been  cancelled  several  years  ago.  I  held 
for  a  time  that  it  was  justifiable  in  me  to  take  money  from  the 
Pope,  and  that  it  was  my  duty  to  defend  his  doctrine.  When, 
however,  as  Paid  says,  '  I  came  to  the  knowledge  of  sin,'  I 
renounced  his  money.  His  agents,  out  of  rage  at  this  renuncia- 
tion, maliciously  endeavoured  to  make  that  out  to  be  a  crime  in 
me  which  they  impressed  upon  all  men  as  a  duty  towards  God  ; 
God  forgive  them,  and  ourselves  too,  all  our  sins.  If  any  one 
tell  you  I  blaspheme  God  and  the  Virgin  !Mary,  or  that  I  falsify 
God  s  "Word,  believe  it  not.  For  all  my  labour,  care,  and  anxiety, 
have  no  other  object  than  to  shew  to  men  the  great  gi'ace  and 
salvation  mIucIi  the  Son  of  God,  born  of  the  holy  Virgin,  has 
obtained  for  man,  that  he  may  flee  for  refuge  to  God  through 
the  dear  sacred  sufferings  of  Christ;  that  Christ's  doctrine  may 
be  set  in  the  fijreground,  the  doctrine  of  men  in  the  background ; 
that  God's  Word  may  remain  pure  and  unadulterated.  You  are 
my  brothers  by  father  and  mother;  but  if  you  be  not  my  bre- 
thren in  the  mind  of  God,  I  am  sorry  for  it,  because  then  I  must 
needs  renounce  you,  nay  even  leave  father  and  mother  unburied, 
if  peradventure  ye  should  attempt  to  draw  me  away  from  God. 
As  to  the  revilings,  attributed  to  me,  of  the  Virgin  INIary,  be 
assured  they  are  false.  I  hold  of  the  Blessed  Virgin,  what  a 
Cliristian  ought  to  hold,  and  have  much  too  high  an  opinion  of 
her  to  regard  the  gossip  and  lies  of  every  story-teller;  I  for  my 
part  may  not  lie,  and  say  more  of  her  than  that  which  the  Scrip- 
tures of  the  holy  Gospels  tell  me.  The  men  who  thus  mali 
ciously  calumniate  me,  do  it  not  to  promote  the  glory  of  God  or 
of  Maiy,  but  solely  because  the  Word  of  God,  which  I  preach, 
conflicts  with  their  luxurj^-,  their  avarice,  their  knaveiy,  theii- 
villany.  It  drags  these  vices  to  the  light  of  day,  and  this  light 
the  vices  cannot  bear.  But  as  the  common  man  holds  the  Virgin 
in  high  veneration,  tlioy  liojie  in   this  manner  to  make  me  incur 


92  HOW  HE  REGAEDED  HIS  LABOUKS  AND  TEIALS. 

his  hatred,  that  thus  the  Word  of  God  may  find  less  acceptance 
with  him.  Let  them  alone.  They  are  blind  leaders  of  the  blind. 
Let  not  the  talk  of  these  people  disturb  you,  and  know  that  it 
cannot  change  my  opinion.  I  shall  quietly  await  whatever  issue 
God  may  gi'ant  to  this  matter.  Christ  our  Lord  and  Saviour  has 
liimseK  been  put  to  death.  I  commend  you  to  God,  who  will 
instruct  and  guide  you.  I  remain  ever  your  brother,  provided 
always  you  are  brethren  of  Christ." 

To  Berchthold  Haller  in  Berne  he  wrote,  in  the  following  terms, 
towards  the  close  of  the  year  1521 :  "I  know  well  that  sometimes 
out  of  weakness  a  sense  of  disgust  will  come  over  us,  when  we 
are  reviled  being  innocent,  and  especially  when  we  think  we 
have  done  all  for  the  best.  But  repentance  succeeds  when 
Christ  excites  the  conscience  l^y  these  stings  and  incitements 
with  which  He  awakens  the  indolent  or  rebellious  spirit,  now 
by  His  threatenings,  now  by  His  promises,  as  for  example  when 
he  says :  'He  who  is  ashamed  of  me  before  men,  of  him  will  I  be 
ashamed  before  my  Father,  and  he  who  denies  me,  him  will  I  also 
deny;'  or,  'He  who  loves  his  life  in  this  world  shall  lose  it;'  or, 
'Out  of  thine  own  mouth  will  I  judge  thee,  thou  wicked  servant; 
because  thou  hast  not  given  out  thy  pound  to  interest;'  or,  'The 
salt  that  has  lost  its  savour  is  henceforth  good  for  nothing,  but  to  be 
cast  out,  that  it  may  be  trodden  under  foot  of  men;'  or,  '  Blessed 
are  ye  when  ye  shall  suffer  persecution  for  righteousness'  sake ;'  or, 
'Blessed  are  ye  when  men  shall  revile  you,'  &c.  When  I  take  to 
heart  the  soul-strengthening  words,  and  the  glorious  examples 
set  us  by  Christ  and  the  Apostles,  then  the  thought  becomes 
right  lively  within  me,  to  suffer  all  for  Christ's  sake.  If  on  the 
other  hand,  I  look  to  our  unhappy  times,  in  which  insolence  and 
ingratitude,  I  had  almost  said  total  insensibility  to  right  and 
wrong,  have  seized,  penetrated,  poisoned  all  hearts,  I  am  filled 
with  sentiments  of  a  contrary  nature,  and  scarce  know  with  cer- 
tainty what  to  think.  But  when  I  collect  my  thoughts,  it  again 
becomes  clear  to  me  that  none  of  these  things  happen  but  by  the 
will  of  God ;  and  that  He  means  thereby  to  cut  off  from  those 
who  will  not  otherwise  approach  Him  in  faith,  every  place  of 
refuge  and  w^ay  of  escape,  and  thus  compel  them  to  throw  them- 
selves unreservedly  into  His  arms,  that,  deprived  of  all  human 
resources,  we  may  betake  ourselves  to  Him  who  is  the  living  God." 


HOW  HE  REGARDED  HIS  LABOURS  AND  TIMALS.  II.S 

In  a  letter  to  Myconius,  of  the  12tli  A\;gust  1522,  Zwiiinli  thus 
expresses  himself :  "  If  I  were  not  convinced  that  the  Lord 
guarded  the  town,  I  had  long  ago  taken  my  hand  from  the  helm ; 
but  seeing,  as  I  do,  that  He  makes  fast  the  rope,  hoists  the  yards, 
spreads  the  canvass,  and  commands  the  winds,  I  were  indeed 
a  coward,  undeserving  the  name  of  a  man,  if  I  were  to  leave  my 
post,  and  after  all,  I  should  still  in  the  end  die  a  death  of  shame. 
I  will,  therefore,  trust  myself  entirely  to  His  goodness  ;  He  shall 
lead  and  guide  me;  He  shall  accelerate  or  procrastinate;  He  shall 
advance  or  delay  the  voyage;  He  shall  send  calm,  or  tempest 
to  overMiielm  me  in  the  sea.  I  will  not  be  im])ati(Mit.  T  am 
verily  but  a  weak  vessel ;  He  can  employ  me  to  honour  or  to  dis- 
honour. I  often  indeed  pray  to  Him  that  He  would  bring  my 
flesh  under  His  government,  and  destroy  its  lazy  wayward  con- 
tradictoriness,  which  is  ever  slow  to  obedience,  and,  like  a  woman, 
will  ever  have  the  last  word,  and  know  the  reason  of  everything. 
/  still  hold  the  ojyinion  that  the  Christian  Church,  originally  pur- 
chased hy  the  blood  of  Christ,  can  he  renewed  alone  by  the  blood 
of  the  witnesses  for  the  truth,  and  in  no  other  way." 

In  this  chapter  Ave  have  restricted  ourselves  to  the  quotation 
of  Zwingli's  own  words,  that  we  might  thereby  enable  the  reader 
to  obtain  a  deeper  and  a  clearer  insight  into  the  Eeformer's 
noble  and  heroic  heart. 


FOUKTH  SECTION. 

THE  KEFORMATION  EFFECTED  BY  Z\VINGLI. 
1523—1526. 


"Behold!  I  make  all  things  new." — Rev.  xxi.  5. 


1.  The  Fermentation  Continues — A  New  Position  Gained. 

ZwiNGLi  had  now,  for  tlie  space  of  four  years,  proclaimed  the 
Word  of  God  in  Zurich,  and,  at  the  same  time,  laid  its  doctrines 
and  claims  before  his  spiritual  and  secular  superiors  in  writing. 
Fruitfully  as  the  scattered  seeds  of  the  holy  doctrine  manifested 
themselves  in  the  minds  of  his  hearers  at  Zurich,  his  representa- 
tions to  the  Bishop  of  Constance  and  to  the  Confederate  Diet, 
were  unproductive  of  any  good  result.  No  abuses  were  abolished ; 
the  petition  of  the  magistracy  of  Zurich  for  illumination  upon 
the  points  in  debate  had  been  disregarded ;  bishop  and  Diet 
maintained  the  prohibition  of  the  preaching  of  the  Word  of  God, 
nay,  they  began  to  adopt  violent  measures  against  the  preachers 
of  it,  wherever  they  could. 

Urban  Weiss,  parson  at  Fislisbach,  in  the  county  of  Baden, 
had  announced  to  his  hearers  from  the  pulpit,  upon  his  return 
from  the  above-mentioned  meeting  of  the  Chapter  at  Eapper- 
schwyl:  "Christians  must  not  call  on  the  Virgin  Mary  or  other 
saints  for  help."  "Farther,"  he  said,  "he  was  betrothed  to  a  virgin, 
and,  in  the  event  of  marriage  being  granted  to  the  priests,  he 
would  fulfil  his  vow."  The  bishop  accused  this  priest  before  the 
Diet  in  Baden,  who  made  him  prisoner,  and  had  him  brought  to 
Constance  as  a  criminal,  where  he  was  kept  for  a  time  in  close 
confinement  by  the  orders  of  the  bishop.  Other  priests  devoted 
to  evangelical  doctrine  were  subjected  to  similar  prosecutions. 
This  joint  interference  on  the  part  of  the  bishop  and  the  Diet 
encouraged  Zwingli's  enemies  to  renewed  hostility.     The  mer- 


THE  FERMENTATION  CONTINUES.  9.) 

cenaries  threatened ;  the  monks  raged  furiously  from  their  pulpits 
against  the  preacher  of  the  Gospel,  calling  him  heretic  and 
seducer  of  the  souls  of  men ;  their  devotees  ottered  to  supply  wood 
free  of  cost  to  burn  him.  But  firm  and  immovable  stood  Zwingli, 
and  proclaimed  only  with  increased  earnestness  and  unction  the 
"Word  of  CJod.  ''  I  am  indeed  harrassed  on  every  side,"  he  wrote  to 
(Ecolampadius,  "but  I  remain  unshaken,  leaning  not  on  my  own 
strength  but  on  the  rock  Christ,  through  whom  I  can  do  all 
things.  He  it  is  who  lends  me  strength  and  courage."  His 
numerous  friends  felt  themselves  strengthened  and  encouraged 
on  their  part  also  to  wage  manfully  the  combat  of  truth  against 
falsehood.  The  gospel  mnubered  in  the  ranks  of  its  firmest  sup- 
porters many  highly  educated  youths  from  tlie  first  families  of 
Zurich.  With  the  ardour  of  youth,  which  often  rises  to  presump- 
tion, these  youths  began  to  Ijreak  in  upon  and  interrupt  the 
preaching  of  the  monies,  to  contradict  them  or  to  challenge  them 
to  prove  by  the  "Word  of  God  the  doctrine  advanced.  The  Little 
Council  administered  reproofs  to  the  young  zealots  for  their 
audacious  conduct,  and  connnanded  them  to  peace  and  silence  ; 
some  of  them  they  caused  to  be  arrested.  Once  Leo  Jud,  who,  at 
the  beginning  of  this  year  (1523),  entered  on  his  cure  at  Zurich, 
interrupted  an  Augustine  monk  in  his  sermon,  who  was  maintain- 
ing with  gi'eat  emphasis,  "that  man  could  satisfy  divine  justice 
himself"  "jNIost  worthy  father,"  cried  Leo  Jud,  interrupting  him 
in  the  friendliest  manner  possible,  "hear  me  a  moment,  and  ye 
my  dear  fellow-citizens  remain  silent  while  I  speak  as  becomes  a 
Christian."  He  then  proved  to  the  people  by  Scripture  the  false- 
ness of  the  doctrine  just  preached  to  them.  "The  occurrence," 
writes  Zwingli,  "wdiich  empowered  the  Little  Council  to  call  both 
parties  before  them,  and  appoint  them  a  hearing,  led  to  the  result 
that  not  only  the  truth,  but  ultimately  the  malice  of  these  people 
came  to  light  by  the  judicial  investigation." 

But  the  Eeformer  proceeded  to  adopt  more  effective  means  to 
display  the  enemies  of  the  gospel  in  their  true  colours  before  the 
world,  and  at  the  same  time  to  cany  the  banner  of  truth  to  vic- 
tory. In  his  sermons,  as  well  as  by  special  remonstrance,  he 
impressed  upon  the  Little  and  Great  Councils  the  necessity  of 
ordaining  a  public  conference  upon  matters  connected  with  religion. 
He  did  this,  that  he  might  be  put  in  a  position  to  give  an  account 


96  A  NEW  POSITION  GAINED. 

of  liis  doctrine  before  the  Bishop's  agents,  and  indeed  before 
every  one,  let  him  be  learned  or  unlearned.  He  proposed  that  if 
it  should  be  found  by  plain  deductions  from  the  Word  of  God 
that  he  was  in  the  WTong,  he  would  then  not  only  allow  himself 
to  be  corrected  but  also  punished ;  if,  on  the  other  hand,  he  should 
be  found  to  be  right,  then  he  would  be  entitled  to  protection,  and 
the  truth  must  not  be  suppressed  nor  be  evil  spoken  of  The 
ultimate  decision,  however,  was  to  lie  in  the  Word  of  God  alone. 
It  was  a  matter  of  the  greatest  importance,  that  the  Great  Council 
of  Zurich  was  by  this  proposal  to  institute  and  conduct  the  Eeli- 
gious  Conference,  for  on  the  one  hand  the  episcopal  authority  was 
thereby  transferred  practically  into  their  hands,  and  on  the  other 
hand,  the  stream  of  the  Reformation,  which  by  the  interference  of 
head-strong  men,  who  wanted  the  necessary  Christian  consecration 
to  the  work,  threatened  to  overflow  its  banks  with  devastating 
fury,  was  restrained  within  a  regular  and  legal  channel.  Pro- 
bably no  one  but  the  Reformer  himself  saw  in  its  whole  extent 
the  important  bearing  of  this  condition  annexed  by  him  to  his 
proposal. 

As  the  Swiss  Reformation  took  its  peculiar  course  and  peculiar 
shape  from  this  diversion  which  Zwingli  gave  it,  it  is  necessary, 
in  order  to  follow  accurately  the  whole  course  of  the  Reformation 
itself,  to  understand  thoroughly  the  nature  of  this  turn  which 
Zwingli  gave  it.  Let  us  hear  how  Zwingli  himself  describes  it : 
"  I  shall  now  state,"  says  he,  "for  what  reason  we  avail  ourselves 
of  the  services  of  the  Council  of  Two  Hundred  in  Zurich,  because 
some  reproach  us  with  letting  that  be  done  by  two  hundred 
which  it  is  the  business  of  the  whole  ecclesiastical  community, 
consisting  of  about  seven  thousand  souls,  to  do.  The  matter 
stands  thus.  We,  the  preachers  of  the  Word  of  God  in  Zurich, 
on  the  one  hand,  give  the  Council  of  Two  Hundred  plainly  to 
understand,  that  we  commit  to  them  the  decision  of  that  which 
properly  belongs  to  the  whole  Church  to  decide,  only  on  the  con- 
dition that,  in  their  consultations  and  conclusions,  they  hold 
themselves  to  the  Word  of  God  alone ;  and,  on  the  other  hand, 
that  they  only  act  so  far  in  the  name  of  the  Church,  as  the 
Church  tacitly  and  voluntarily  adopts  their  conclusions  and  ordi- 
nances. We  have  also  published  this  our  opinion  to  the  whole 
Church,  and  at  the  same  time  signified  to  them  that,  at  the  pre- 


A  NEW  POSITION  (JAINED.  97 

sent  time,  when  some  inv  impelled,  by  the  must  foolish  ideas, 
which  they  give  out  as  inspirations  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  it  is  not 
expedient  to  vest  the  decision  of  certain  points  in  the  wliole 
people.  Not  as  thoiigli  we  feared  that  God  Avould  not  stand  by 
and  govern  and  direct  his  Church,  but  because  at  these  first 
beginnings  of  our  ecclesiastical  polity  we  must  avoid  all  occasions 
of  strife.  Therefore  we  have  advised  the  people  that  they  commit 
the  decision  of  external  things  and  of  rites  to  the  Council  of  Two 
Hundred,  under  the  condition  that  all  be  regidated  according  to 
the  rule  of  God's  Word,  while  we  promise  that,  as  soon  as  they,  on 
any  point,  do  not  recognise  the  authority  of  the  Word  of  God,  we 
shall  forthwith  signify  the  same  to  them,  and  exclaim  against 
their  decision.  With  this  arrangement  the  Church  is  agreed, 
although  she  has  not  issued  any  pulilic  announcement  upon  the 
subject;  but  she  manifests  her  consent  to  it,  by  gratefully  and 
quietly  submitting  to  it,  from  which  it  is  clear  that  she  will  take 
it  ill  if  any  one  should  be  presumptuous  enough  to  hinder  the 
progress  of  the  Gospel  by  indulging  in  hair-splitting  distinctions. 
She  knows  well,  too,  that  we  must  keep  Christ  and  our  own  honour 
in  view  alone,  if  we  are  to  acquit  ourselves  of  our  task  \y\{\\  a 
regard  to  Christian  unity.  "What,  liowcver,  respects  the  changes 
to  be  proposed,  the  Council  of  Two  Hundred  will  decide  upon 
these.  For  such  a  course  of  procedure  we  have  examples  in 
Scripture.  The  Church  at  Antioch,  as  is  well  known,  sent  only 
Paul  and  Barnabas  to  Jerusalem,  and  passed  no  resolution  them- 
selves, which  they  could  have  done  ;  this  they  did  that  they  might 
avoid  strife,  of  which  there  is  ever  the  greater  risk  the  gi-eater 
the  multitude  is  with  whom  the  idtimate  decision  rests.  That 
the  Two  Hundred,  however,  act  in  such  matters  in  name  of  the 
Church  and  not  in  their  own  name,  is  evident  from  the  circum- 
stance, that  what  they  have  with  us  ordained  in  respect  to  the 
venerating  of  images,  the  celebration  of  the  Sacranu^nt,  and  so  on, 
has  been  left  fn'e  in  the  other  communities  of  town  and  countr\', 
because  in  these,  where  the  numbers  are  smaller  the  spirit  of 
disunion  is  the  less  to  be  feared.  Tliis  mea.sure  lias  liad  such 
success  that  it  is  very  plain  it  is  in  accordance  with  tlie  will  of 
God  We  first,  above  all  things,  in.stnicted  well  the  Christian 
commonalty  upon  that  which  the  Couneil  had  to  decide,  and 
thus  it  came  that  all  upon  which  the  Tw(i  Huiulred  took  order 

u 


98  A  NEW  POSITION  UAINED. 

with  the  servants  of  the  Word  had  ah'eady  been  accepted  by  the 
faithful.  Finally,  we  turned  to  the  Council  of  Two  Hundred  with 
the  petition  that,  in  name  of  the  whole  Church,  they  would  be 
pleased  to  secure  that  all  should  be  done  decently  and  in  order. 
In  this  manner  strife  and  disunion  have  been  averted  from  our 
Church,  evils  the  presence  of  which  was  much  to  be  apprehended, 
from  its  great  populousness,  and  the  intemperance  of  some  indi- 
viduals in  it;  while  to  dissentients  a  hearing  was  given,  and, 
indeed,  the  ears  of  the  magistrates  and  of  the  courts  have  been 
pretty  well  accustomed  to  debates  and  squabbles.  'Tis  thus  in 
Zurich  that,  instead  of  the  Church,  we  avail  ourselves  in  the 
decision  of  religious  questions,  of  the  Council  of  Two  Hundred, 
which  is  the  highest  civil  power." 

Such  is  the  position  which  Zwingii  from  the  fu'st  took  up,  after 
he  had  convinced  himself  that  the  heads  of  the  Church,  so  far 
from  advancing  the  work  of  Eeformation,  would  combat  it  to  the 
utmost  of  their  power.  By  this  sagacious  measure  it  became  pos- 
sible for  him  to  save  the  Reformation  from  the  horrors  of  revolu- 
tion, and  in  a  free  state,  too,  where  much  less  power  is  lodged  in 
the  hands  of  the  supreme  authority  than  in  a  monarchy.  Again,  by 
the  operation  of  this  measure,  the  refining  and  sanctifying  influence 
of  the  gospel  was  made  to  pervade  the  whole  of  civil  life,  because 
the  magistracy  were  compelled  to  adapt  their  resolutions  and  ordi- 
nations to  God's  Word,  and  to  regulate  their  lives  and  conversation 
by  its  rules  ;  the  clergy  were  guardians  and  protectors  of  the 
Divine  rights,  and  the  whole  Christian  community  meanwhile 
exercised  a  strict  and  faithful  supervision  over  the  measures  of  the 
government,  and  over  the  morals  of  its  members.  The  Christian 
state,  or  the  Christian  magistracy,  as  the  representative  of  God  on 
earth,  thus  became  a  reality,  without  the  Church  and  her  servants 
being  trammelled  in  the  duties  which  they  owed  to  the  gospel. 

After  lengthened  deliberation,  the  Great  Council  resolved,  on 
the  Saturday  following  the  Circumcision  of  Christ,  the  3d  Janu- 
ary 1523,  to  accede  to  the  desire  of  Zwingii,  and  to  appoint  the 
Conference  on  matters  of  religion  to  be  held  on  the  29tli  January. 
The  circular  calling  the  clergy  is  higlily  characteristic  of  the  new 
position  in  which  the  Council  found  itself  placed.  "  We,  Burgo- 
masters, Little  and  Great  Councils,  to  all  the  clergy  in  our  district, 
salutations,  and  the  expression  of  our  favourable  dispositions. 


A  NKW  POSITION  OAINKD.  99 

Disunion  lia.s  nuniilt'stt'd  it.si'li'  among  us,  aiul  tli.sSL'U.siou  exists 
among  our  preachers.  Sonic  picaclicrs  believe  that  they  liavo 
faithfully  prochiimeil  the  liospel;  whereas  others  maintain  that 
these  promulgate  error,  niisleatl  the  people,  and,  in  faet,  are  heretics, 
although  they  are  Mailing  to  maintain  and  defend,  by  proofs  from 
Holy  Scripture,  the  doctrine  which  they  teach.  Therefore,  animated 
■with  the  best  intentions,  and  above  all,  to  maintain  the  honour 
of  God,  peace,  and  Christian  unity,  we  declare  it  to  be  our  plea- 
sure that  ye,  parsons,  priests,  and  preachers,  jointly  and  severally, 
or  other  priests,  who  are  willing  to  speak,  to  reprove,  or  instruct 
the  other  part,  do  present  yourselves  at  our  Town-hall  at  the  early 
hour  of  business  on  the  first  day  after  the  Emperor  Charles'  day ; 
and  it  is  likewise  our  pleasure,  if  it  do  then  and  there  come  to  a 
disputation,  that  this  be  carried  on  in  the  German  tongue  and 
language,  and  with  proofs  drawn  froni  Holy  Scripture.  With  all 
diligence,  and  with  the  assistance  of  some  learned  men,  we  shall 
give  attention,  in  the  event  of  its  appearing  good  to  us  so  to  do, 
and  according  as  the  same  shall  be  found  to  be  agi-eeable  to  the 
Word  of  God  and  truth,  to  send  each  and  all  of  you  home  with 
the  order  either  to  continue  or  to  desist  from  Jris  kind  of  preach- 
ing, that  from  henceforth  each  mat/  not  j))'each  from  the  pulpit 
what  seems  good  to  himself,  and  without  foundation.  We  shall 
also  intimate  the  same  to  our  gracious  lord  the  Bishop  of  Con- 
stance, that  his  Grace,  or  his  representatives,  if  they  choose,  may 
be  present.  But  if  any  be  contrarious,  and  bring  not  to  his  argu- 
ment the  tnie  and  genuine  Word  of  God,  we  shall  take  such 
measures  with  him  as  we  might  rather  avoid  Finally,  we  trust 
that  God  will  illuminate  our  own  souls  with  the  light  of  His  truth, 
that  we  may  walk  as  children  of  the  light."  In  the  meanwhile, 
the  magistracy,  as  the  new  depositary  of  episcopal  power,  was 
induced  by  Zwingli  to  adopt  proceedings  which  plainly  displayed 
the  beneficial  tendencies  of  the  new  order  of  things.  The  public- 
houses  were  better  looked  after,  riotous  behaviour  on  the  part  of 
the  youth  and  students  was  restrained,  women  of  ill  fame  were 
oi-dered  to  leave  the  towTi,  and  four  members  of  the  Little  Coun- 
cil, living  in  open  adultery,  were  excluded  for  half-a-year  from 
the  sederunts.  Zwingli  himself  prepared  for  the  Keligious  Con- 
ference, and  wrote  down  sixty-seven  propositions  as  theses  to  lie 


1 00  THE  FIRST  EELIGIOUS  CONFERENCE  IN  ZURICH. 

disputed  upon,  which  he  had  printed.  He  concluded  his  little 
work  with  the  words  :  "  In  this  disputation,  let  none  contend 
with  the  arm's  of  subtle  disquisition  or  sophistical  cavilling,  but  let 
him  come  with  Holy  Scripture,  which  is  the  alone  standard  for 
the  judges,  that  we  ma.y  find  the  truth,  and  having  found  it,  as  I 
hope  we  shall,  may  keep  it." 

Zwingii,  when  he  heard  that  Faber  was  coming  to  the  debate, 
wrote  to  CEcolompad  in  these  words :  "  The  Lord  grant  that  he 
be  not  hindered  from  coming,  that  neither  Eome  nor  Constance 
may  be  disappointed  of  their  wonted  jubilee." 


2.  The  first  Eeligious  Conference  in  Zurich,  held  on  the 
29th  January  1523. 

On  the  29th  January,  a  Thursday,  there  assembled,  at  an  early 
hour  of  the  morning,  about  six  hundred  persons,  in  the  Great 
Council's  Hall  at  Zurich.  There  appeared  in  the  Assembly,  as 
representatives  of  the  Bishop,  Knight  James  von  Anwyl,  High 
Steward,  John  Faber,  General  Vicar,  Dr.  Martin  Blansch,  of 
Tuebingen.  Other  men  of  rank  and  learning  also  gave  their 
attendance.  The  Diet  of  the  Confederacy,  which  had  met  at 
Baden  a  short  time  before,  had  been  invited  to  send  deputies,  but 
had  not  condescended  to  reply.  From  Berne  there  came  unin- 
vited Dr.  Sebastian  Meyer,  from  Schaffhausen,  Sebastian  Hofme- 
ister,  from  Zurich  itself,  the  canons,  clergy,  and  men  of  learning, 
as  well  as  a  vast  number  of  citizens  and  country  people ;  "for 
with  many,"  writes  BuUinger,  "  there  was  a  great  wonderment 
what  would  come  out  of  this  affair."  In  the  centre  of  a  vacant 
circle  sat  Zwingii  alone  at  a  table,  on  which  were  spread  out  open 
Bibles,  in  the  Latin,  Greek,  and  Hebrew  languages.  All  eyes  were 
turned  upon  the  Eeformer.  The  burgomaster  arose,  Marx  Eoist, 
a  hoary-headed  warrior,  who  had  fought  with  Zwingii  in  the 
battle  of  Marignano,  and  addressed  the  Assembly  as  follows : 
"Venerable  and  learned  lords, — In  Zurich,  for  sometime  past, 
considerable  dissension  has  been  created  on  account  of  the  doctrine 
of  our  predicant  Magister  Huldreich  Zwingii;  by  some  he  has 
been  termed  a  corrupter  of  the  people,  by  others  a  heretic.    Among 


THE  FIRST  RELIGIOUS  CONFERENCE  IN  ZURICH.  101 

clergy  and  luity  the  discontent  increases,  and  almost  daily  wo 
have  conii)laints  upon  this  subject.  From  the  pul])it  Magister 
Zwiiij^li  has  ol'l'ered  to  give  an  account  of  his  doctrine  if  a  public 
disputation  before  clergy  and  laity  were  granted  him.  We  have 
conceded  to  him  the  liberty  to  hold  the  same  before  the  Great 
Council,  and  have  summoned  all  the  priests  and  curates  of  our 
district,  and  have  also  invited  our  venerable  lord  and  prince,  the 
Bishop  of  Constance.  We  have,  in  an  especial  manner,  to  express 
our  thanks  that  he  has  been  pleased  to  send  to  us  his  highly 
esteemed  deputies.  Whoever,  then,  is  dissatisfied  or  doubtful  in 
regard  to  that  which  ]\1  agister  Huldreich  has  taught  from  the 
pulpit,  and  whosoever  can  shew  that  his  sermons  and  doctrines 
have  been  seditious  or  heretical,  let  him  now,  at  this  opportunity 
given,  prove  to  him,  ^\•ith  God's  help,  his  error,  that  my  lords  of 
the  Council  may  be  spared  in  future  the  complaints  of  disunion 
and  contention  daily  made  l)oth  l)y  clergy  and  laity,  of  which  my 
lords  are  thoroughly  tired." 

The  steward  of  the  Bishop  then  rose  and  said:  "My  gi'acious 
nuister  well  knows  that  in  his  bishopric  dissensions  and  strife 
have  arisen,  l)y  reason  of  certain  doctrines  or  preachings,  although 
he  has  ever  had  it  at  heart  to  promote  peace ;  and  for  this  end 
has  sent  his  delegates  hither.  We  are  to  hear  the  causes  of  such 
disunion,  and  advise  the  best  which  may  advantage!  an  honouraljle 
Council  in  Zurich,  and  a  reverend  clergy.  Therefore  we  shall,  for 
the  sake  of  peace  and  imily,  seek  to  allay  the  fermentation  and 
dissension,  until  my  lord,  with  his  men  of  learning  and  prelates, 
has  considered  and  resolved  farther  upon  it."  Z\vingli  now 
addressed  the  assembly :  "  From  time  immemorial,"  said  he, 
"  God  has  revealed  his  will  to  the  human  race.  His  Word  tells 
us  this.  Pure  and  clear  is  this  word  in  itself;  but,  by  the  additions 
and  doctrines  of  men,  it  has  been  in  years  gone  by,  and  still  is 
in  our  days,  so  darkened  and  defaced,  that  the  greater  part  of 
those  who  call  themselves  Christians  are  wholly  ignorant  of  the 
Divine  will,  and  know  nothing  but  a  worship  invented  by  man, 
and  a  pretended  sanctity  resting  solely  on  external  observances. 
To  such  delusions  they  have  been  misled  bv  those  who  ought  to 
liave  been  their  guides  to  the  fountain  of  truth  in  the  word  of 
Christ,  as  contained  in  Hisgo.spel  and  the  writings  of  His  apostles. 
Now    that    some    begin   to    jxiint    to   this  source,  lo !   they  an- 


102  THE  FIRST  RELIGIOUS  CONFERENCE  IN  ZURICH. 

esteemed  to  be  not  Christians  at  all,  but  are  scouted  as  corrupters 
of  the  Church,  nay,  as  heretics.  For  such  an  one  I  am  regarded ; 
and  although  I  now,  in  my  fifth  year  in  this  town,  proclaim 
nothing  but  Christ's  saving  message  to  man,  yet  this  has  not 
served  to  justify  me  as  my  lords  here  of  the  Council  well  know. 
For  this  cause,  and  I  thank  them  for  it,  they  have  granted  me 
this  public  disputation.  I  have  drawn  up  propositions  which 
contain  the  sum  of  that  which  I  have  hitherto  taught.  That  these 
propositions  are  agreeable  to  the  gospel,  I  hope  to  make  clear  to 
every  one,  and  also  to  our  gracious  lord  the  Bishop  of  Constance, 
or  his  representatives.  The  Spirit  of  God  hath  compelled  me  to 
speak ;  He  knows  too  why  He  hath  chosen  me,  all  unworthy  as  I 
am,  as  His  herald.  Go  on,  then,  in  God's  name.  Here  I  am  to 
answer  you."  Upon  this,  the  General- Vicar  Faber  said:  "My 
esteemed  brother  Zwingli  assures  us  that  he  has  always  preached 
the  gospel  in  Zurich.  Truly  I  do  not  doubt  that:  for  what 
preacher  called  of  God  would  not  preach  the  gospel.  He  means 
to  vindicate  his  doctrine ;  I  could  have  wished  he  had  come  to 
Constance,  where  I  would  have  testified  my  friendship  for  him. 
I  am  not  here  to  contend  against  evangelic  or  apostolic  doctrine, 
but  to  listen,  in  event  of  dispute  to  decide,  and,  in  a  word,  to  do 
all  that  makes  for  peace,  and,  if  possible,  to  prevent  any  public 
disturbance;  for  this  Paul  and  the  gospel  enjoin  on  us.  But  if 
one  will  here  lay  his  hand  upon  venerable  rites  and  long  established 
usages,  I  declare  here,  as  the  ambassador  of  my  lord  the  Bishop 
of  Constance,  that  I  have  orders  in  that  case  not  to  interfere  at 
all.  Such  affairs  belong  wholly  to  general  councils  of  nations, 
and  of  their  bishops,  for  it  would  be  highly  injurious  to  pass  some 
resolution  here,  which  might  not  be  accepted  somewhere  else. 
Schisms  would  thus  arise  in  the  Church.  I  therefore  advise  to 
forbear  from  constitutions  which  are  a  hundred  years  old,  or 
which  are  of  Papal  or  ecclesiastical  appointment ;  and  the  more 
so,  as  my  lord  the  Bishop  is  informed,  that  the  States  of  the 
empire  have  resolved  to  call  a  general  council  to  meet  at  Nurn- 
berg*  within  a  year's  time.  Besides,  who  in  such  disputations  is 
to  be  the  judge  ?     It  is  only  at  the  high  schools  of  learning,  such 

*  To  prevent  the  Diet,  which  had  then  met  at  Nurnberg,  from  .adopting 
measures  of  vigour  in  matters  of  religion,  the  prospect  of  the  speedy  calling  of 
a  general  coimcil  was  held  nut  by  the  papal  ambassadors. 


THE  FIRST  RELIGIOUS  CONFERENCE  IN  ZURICH.  1 0.*} 

as  Paris,  Cologne  or  Louvaine,*  that  lueii  of  the  re(iuisito  capacity 
for  such  an  office  are  to  l)e  found." 

"  And  why,"  said  Zwingli,  jecringly,  "  not  at  P^rfurt  or  Witten- 
berg ?-f-  Dear  brethren,  my  lord  Vicar  employs  against  your 
simplicity  much  art,  and  deals  in  the  flowers  of  rhetoric  to  turn 
you  from  your  purpose.  We  do  not  intpiire  how  long  anything 
has  been  the  custom;  we  speak  of  truth  as  it  is  presented  to  us  in 
the  Divine  law.  Use  and  wont  must  yield  to  this.  Does  one 
sjieak  of  a  Christian  assembly?  then  I  think  there  is  one  here  in 
this  room :  for  the  Lord  himself  hath  said,  '  Where  two  or  three 
are  gathered  together  in  my  name,  there  am  I  in  the  midst  of 
them.'  Bi.shops,  too,  are  amongst  us,  not  powerful  mighty  princes 
as  we  have  them  at  the  present  day,  but  overseers  and  teachers 
of  the  Christian  tiock,  called  bishops  by  the  apostle.  And  where- 
fore do  we  require  judges?  we  who  have  here  the  Holy  Scriptures 
in  the  Hebrew,  Greek,  and  Latin  tongues,  and  learned  men  who 
understand  these  languages  as  well  as  those  in  the  so-called  high 
schools.  And  even  if  this  were  not  the  case,  there  are  yet  among 
us  so  many  Christian  spirits,  that,  with  God's  assistance,  it  may 
readily  be  made  clear  to  us  which  party  rightly,  which  party 
wrongly,  intei^prets  Scripture.  But,  finally,  as  to  what  concerns 
the  Xurnberg  business,  I  tell  you,  dear  friends,  that  of  late  I  have 
received  from  thence  three  letters,  which  I  could  now  lay  before 
you,  none  of  which  contains  a  single  word  in  regard  to  any 
resolution  being  passed  to  call  a  Council;  popes,  bishops,  and 
})relates  are  represented,  on  the  contrary,  as  most  of  all  against 
it.  Let  not  the  speech  3'ou  have  just  heard  cause  you  any  alarm. 
And  ye  of  Zurich  ought  to  look  upon  it  as  a  distinguished 
favour,  and  a  special  call  of  God  to  do  His  work,  that  such  an 
assembly  as  this  can  take  place  among  you." 

A  lengthened  pause  succeeded  Zwingli's  words,  which  was 
broken  by  the  Ijurgonuister's  challenge :  "  \i  there  be  any  one 
])resent  who  has  anything  to  object  to  Zwingli  and  his  doctrine, 
let  him  now  do  so,"  All  remained  silent.  Zwingli  then  said: 
■•  In  Christian  love  I  entreat  each  and  every  man  who  holds  the 
iloctrine  I  preach  to  be  false  or  erroneous,  to  express  his  dissent 
without  hesitation.     I  know  there  are  several  here  who  have 

*  Three  schools,  jmrticularlv  nvcrse  to  the  Reformation,  and  which  ha<l  ron- 
dcmned  Luther's  Theses. 

+    Luther  h.id  studied  at  F'rfurt,  and  was  now  tcacliing  at  Wittenherp. 


lOi  THE  FIRST  RELIGIOUS  CONFERENCE  IN  ZURICH. 

accused  me  of  heresy ;  I  do  not  wish  to  be  forced  to  call  upon 
them  by  name."  The  Abbot  of  Kappel,  Wolfgang  Joner,  who 
held  evangelical  opinions,  said :  "  Where  are  the  men  who  would 
burn  us,  and  who  have  already  provided  wood  for  the  purpose  ? 
Let  them  come  forward ;  there  stands  the  man  who  is  ready  to 
give  you  answer."  None  entering  the  lists  against  Zwingli,  James 
Wagner,  parson  at  Neftenbach,  said:  "Our  gracious  lord  of 
Constance  has,  within  the  last  year,  issued  a  mandate,  in  wdiich 
he  commands  that  the  traditions  and  doctrines  of  men  be  held 
and  observed  until  they  shall  be  altered  or  abrogated  by  a  General 
Council.  But  as  none  comes  forward  now  to  speak  against 
Zwingli's  articles,  which  are  diametrically  opposed  to  that  which 
the  Bishop  commands  us  to  observe,  I  hope  that  from  hence- 
forward we  shall  be  no  longer  bound  by  the  said  mandate,  but 
be  free  to  preach  the  Word  of  God  fully  and  purely,  and  to  let 
human  traditions  alone.  We  know,  too,  that  parson  Urban 
Weiss  of  Fislisbach,  has  been,  in  accordance  with  the  said  man- 
date, imprisoned,  and  brought  as  a  common  malefactor  to  Con- 
stance. If,  however,  we  teach  and  preach  according  to  the 
mandate,  the  articles  of  Zwingli  cannot  be  defended,  and  they 
must  be  false.  Nevertheless,  as  none  here  wall  adventure  to 
attack  the  same,  and  to  prove  their  fallacy,  it  is  much  to  be  feared 
that  injustice  has  been  done  to  the  parson  of  Fislisbach.  This 
much  I  felt  myself  compelled,  in  my  simplicity,  to  say,  as  Urban 
Weiss  is  our  brother,  and  I  might  willingly  know  how  we  are  to 
hold  ourselves  in  respect  of  said  mandate." 

The  General- Vicar  could  not  remain  longer  silent.  "  As  this 
speech  concerns  my  gracious  master,  and  in  part  also  me,  his 
vicar  (although  I  was  out  of  the  country  when  the  said  mandate 
was  issued),  I  declare  that  my  gracious  lord  must  have  seen  the 
necessity  for  it,  there  being  in  his  diocese  so  many  foolish  and 
ill-instructed  parsons,  who  utter  great  nonsense.  The  parson  of 
Fislisbach  is  an  illiterate,  unreasonable  man,  who  gives  utter- 
ance to  such  indecent  speeches,  that  one  feels  ashamed  any- 
where to  repeat  them.  I  have,  out  of  compassion  to  him,  con- 
versed with  him  in  regard  to  prayer  and  petition  to  the  blessed 
saints,  and  convinced  him  of  his  error,  proving  to  him,  out  of  the 
first  and  second  books  of  Moses,  out  of  Ezekiel  and  Baruch,  that 
before  the  birth  of  Christ  the  blessed  saints  were  worshipped 
and  invoked,  that  they  might  intercede  for  others,  and  I  sue- 


THE  FIRST  EELIGIOUS  CONFERENCE  IN  ZURICH.  10 

» 

ceeded  in  inducing;'  liini  to  acknowledge  his  errors.  He  is  now 
willing  to  recant  all  lie  has  taught  in  respect  of  the  Mother  of 
God  and  the  blessed  saints,  so  that  I  hope  he  will  express  his. 
great  obligations  to  me  for  the  trouble  1  have  taken,  and  will 
shortly  receive  his  liberty."  Zwingii  hastily  struck  in  at  these 
words:  "God  has,  without  doubt,  disposed  it  that  the  General- 
Vicar  has  touched  upon  the  adoration  of  the  saints,  for  it  is  made 
to  me  the  matter  of  gi'eatest  reproach  that  I  do  not  teach  the 
duty  of  prayer  to  the  saints,  and  that  I  shew  that  Jesus  Christ 
is  the  only  Savioiu-  and  Intercessor  between  us  and  His  heavenly 
Father,  as  Holy  Scripture  clearly  teaches  us.  My  lord  vicar 
having  now  publicly  boasted  that  he  has  converted  the  parson  of 
Fislisliach  from  his  error  by  certain  i)assages  of  Scri])ture,  to 
which  he  directed  his  attention,  I  shall  ask  nothing  more  of  him 
but  that  he  kindly  communicate  to  us  the  passages  referred  to." 
The  General-Vicar  replied :  "  I  see,  dear  sirs,  that  the  tables  an; 
turned  against  me.  '  The  fool  is  easily  caught  in  his  words,'  says 
the  proverb.  1  have  my  foolishness  to  blame  for  it  that  I  allowed 
myself  to  speak,  having  exjiressly  said  I  should  not  dispute. 
There  have  arisen,  many  hundred  years  ago,  heretics  who  rejected 
the  adoration  of  the  saints,  purgatory,  &c.  The  Fathers,  however, 
have  condemned  them  in  the  Councils.  Even  in  recent  times, 
the  Bohemians  and  rieardians,*  misled  by  Wickliff-|-  and  Huss,| 
have  brought  in  again  heretical  doctrines,  and  there  are  those  at 
the  present  day  who  would  lead  the  people  from  ancient  usages 
which  have  lasted  twelve  centuries.  If  all  that  the  Holy  Fathers 
have  done  is  to  go  for  nothing,  we  are  come  to  a  poor  pass.  Has 
then  Christendom  been  in  error  fourteen  hundred  years?  The 
adoration  of  the  saints  has  lasted  ever  since  the  time  of  Gregoiy 
(elected  I'ope  A.D.  710)."     Zwingii  replied:  "  jMy  lord  vicar,  such 

*  Tlic  Waklcnses  were  called  I'irardiaii,*,  from  Picardy,  a  department  in 
France,  where  they  were  to  be  found  in  {ireat  number.".  Faber  said,  on  liis 
return  to  Constance,  "I  believed  myself  in  I'icardy,  it  so  swarmed  with  heretics 
at  Zurich." 

t  Jolin  Wicklift'  (born  1324),  Professor  of  Divinity  at  Oxford,  beloufis  to  the 
forerunners  of  the  Ueformation,  inasmuch  as  he  boldly  attacked  the  corruptions 
in  the  Church,  and  laid  down  the  doctrine  that  "  in  matters  of  faith  Scrii)ture 
alone  must  decide." 

X  John  IIuss  (bom  1373,  as  martyr  to  the  faith  burned  at  Constance  1415), 
is  also  a  forerunner  of  the  Refomiers.  lie  was  brought  to  the  knowledge  of 
the  truth  chiefly  by  reading  Wickliff'g  writings. 


106  THE  FIRST  RELIGIOUS  CONIiPRENCE  IN  ZURICH. 

digressions  are  out  of  place.  Shew  us,  I  pray  you,  the  passages 
of  Holy  Scripture  with  which  you  have  convinced  the  parson  of 
Fislisbach  of  his  error.  Answer  in  simple  distinct  language. 
Here  and  here  it  is  so  written;  we  shall  then  examine  the  pas- 
sages, and  illuminate  the  matter  farther.  Fathers  and  Councils 
are  no  authority  to  us,  except  when  they  prove  what  they  say  by 
Scripture.  Every  body  knows  that  the  Councils  contradict  each 
other.  What  is  set  up  in  the  one  is  thrown  down  in  the  other ; 
for  proof  of  this  I  remind  you  of  the  question  of  the  marriage  of 
priests.  It  is  well  known  that  the  Litany  existed  before  the 
time  of  Gregory;  and  that  there  certainly  were  Christians  before 
the  introduction  of  the  Litany.  We  too  have  enough  in  Christ, 
and  can  dispense  with  human  ordinances."  At  the  mention  of 
the  marriage  of  the  priests,  the  Vicar  conceived  he  had  an  oppor- 
tunity to  escape  from  the  demands  of  his  opponent,  and  he  plunged 
into  a  liistorical  disquisition  upon  this  subject.  Zwingli  did  not 
allow  himself  to  be  duped  by  this  artifice,  but,  interrupting  him, 
said :  "  And  although  you  were  to  maintain  and  prove  that  the 
prohibition  of  marriage  to  the  priests  has  existed  since  the  times 
of  the  apostles,  yet  such  a  prohibition  is  nowhere  to  be  found  in 
God's  Word,  which,  on  the  contrary,  allows  it,  as  I  have  already 
proved.  But  what  we  desire  fi^om  you  now  is,  that  you  shew  us 
the  passages  of  Holy  Scripture  in  which  adoration  of  the  saints 
is  permitted  and  enjoined,  for  this  is  the  point."  The  Vicar  was 
at  length  obliged  to  take  up  the  unpleasant  subject.  "  We  have 
in  the  Christian  Church,"  said  he,  "  the  custom,  of  long-standing, 
observed  by  the  whole  of  Christendom,  and  confirmed  by  the 
Litany  and  Mass-canon,  to  call  on  the  Mother  of  God  and  the 
blessed  saints  to  intercede  for  us.  The  Mother  of  God  herself 
gives  us  instruction  on  this  point,  as  in  Luke  she  says,  'from 
henceforth  all  generations  shall  call  me  blessed ;'  and  again, 
'blessed  art  thou  among  women;'  and  the  woman  in  the  gospel, 
'  blessed  is  the  womb  that  bare  thee.'"  Zwingli :  "All  these  places 
of  Holy  Scripture  prove  the  glory  and  excellence  of  Mary,  with 
regard  to  which  there  is  no  dispute,  and  which  is  not  the  matter 
in  hand.  You  must  prove  to  us  the  adoration  by  Holy  Scrip- 
ture; all  else  is  sheer  trifling."  Faher:  "  If  then  my  words  be 
frivolous  and  idle  talk,  I  shall  willingly  keep  silence."  Dr.  Mar- 
tin Blansch  spoke  next,  whom  Zwingli  answered,  and  then  Sebas- 


THE  FIRST  RELIGIOUS  CONFERENCE  IN  ZURICH.  107 

tiaii  Hofiiieister  and  Dr.  Sebastian  ^leyer,  tlic  two  honoraiy 
guests,  who  exhorted  the  Zurichers  to  hohl  to  the  Word  of  God, 
and  to  advance  on  the  path  -svhicli  they  had  entered  upon.  The 
Burgomaster,  after  calling  on  any  who  had  the  ^vish  to  speak,  or 
to  make  ohjections,  and  none  appearing,  dismissed  the  assembly 
to  dinner,  witli  the  remark,  "  The  sword  that  wounded  the  par- 
son of  Fislisbach  will  not  leave  its  scabbard  to-day."  The  Coun- 
cil remained  sitting,  and  passed  the  following  resolution,  which 
in  the  afternoon  was  published  to  the  assembly : — "  ]\Iagister 
lluldreich  Zwingli,  canon  and  predicant  in  the  Great  Minster  at 
Zurich,  having  been  ofttimes  secretly  calumniated,  and  publicly 
accused  on  account  of  Ids  doctrine,  and  having  pul)lished  the 
articles  of  his  faith,  and  called  on  any  to  disprove  them  on  the 
ground  of  Holy  Scripture,  and  none  having  appeared  with  that 
intent,  although  the  said  Magister  Zwingli  has  more  than  once 
challenged  those  to  do  so  who  have  applied  to  him  the  oppro- 
brious name  of  heretic — A\'e,  the  Burgomaster,  the  Little  and 
Great  Councils  of  the  town  of  Zurich,  to  put  an  end  to  disturb- 
ance and  dissension,  after  due  deliberation,  have  resolved,  and  it 
is  our  opinion,  that  the  said  ISIagister  Hiddreich  Zwingli  con- 
tinue, as  hitherto,  to  preach  Holy  Scripture,  according  as  the 
Spirit  of  God  may  enable  him.  "We  also  command  all  other 
Leut-priests,  curates,  and  predicants  in  town  and  countiy  to 
teach  and  preach  from  the  pulpit  nothing  else  but  that  which 
can  be  proved  by  the  (iospel  and  the  recognized  Holy  Scriptures. 
Nor  shall  they  for  the  future  apply  to  each  other  abusive  names, 
as  heretic  and  the  like." 

Upon  this  resolution  being  published,  Zwingli  said,  greatly 
rejoiced:  "  God  be  praised,  who  will  have  His  Holy  Word  rule 
in  heaven  and  on  earth.  He,  the  Almighty  Everlasting  God,  will, 
as  I  doubt  not,  my  lords,  grant  you  strength  on  other  occasions 
also  to  forward  the  cause  of  His  Word  and  Holy  Gospel,  and  to 
protect  the  preaching  of  the  same  within  your  bounds.  Doubt 
not,  my  lords,  the  Omnipotent  Eternal  God  will  in  another  way 
recompense  and  reward  you.  Amen."  The  General-Vicar  sought 
to  save  his  honour  by  maintaining  that  the  propositions  of 
Zwingli  were  eiToneous  and  heretical,  Init  he  did  not  attempt  to 
prove  his  a.ssertion.  Zwingli,  animated  with  the  feeling  of  vic- 
toiy.  no  longer  spared  him.  esporially  as  tlif  Vicar  declared  he 


108  THE  FIRST  RELIGIOUS  CONFERENCE  IN  ZURICH. 

no  longer  spoke  in  an  official  capacity,  but  only  as  Johannes. 
Faber  forgot  himself  so  far  as  to  say:  "Not  all  that  is  wrong  or 
against  Christ  stands  in  the  gospel.  For  where  do  we  find,  for 
example,  that  a  man  shall  not  take  his  own  or  his  sister's  daugh- 
ter to  wife?  One  can  be  friendly,  peaceable,  virtuous  without 
the  gospel."  Zwingli  replied :  "Nor  does  it  stand  anywhere  in 
the  gospel  that  a  cardinal  should  have  thirty  livings.  But  in 
the  third  book  of  Moses,  chap,  xviii.,  you  find  farther  removed 
degrees  of  blood-relationship  forbidden  than  that  which  you  have 
named,  from  whence  it  is  clear  that  nearer  cannot  be  allowed, 
although  they  are  not  specified.  For  the  rest,  I  pity  you  that 
you  make  to  the  inhabitants  of  Zurich  such  foolish  and  sterile 
speeches,  wdiich  are  nothing  but  an  insult  to  the  understandings 
of  the  people.  You  had  better  held  your  peace  than  to  have  thus 
defended  yourself"  At  these  words  all  present  stood  up,  indignant 
at  the  disgraceful  conduct  of  the  Vicar,  and  his  idle  unmeaning- 
harangues,  and  went  home.     Thus  ended  the  first  Conference. 

As  a  remarkable  circumstance,  highly  characteristic  of  the 
economics  of  the  times,  it  deserves  to  be  mentioned,  in  connec- 
tion with  the  Conference,  that  the  parson  of  Schlieren,  upon 
Zwingli's  exhortation  that  every  parson  should  read  and  study 
the  Holy  Scriptures,  especially  the  New  Testament,  objected  in 
these  words :  "  How  can  one  who  has  a  small  living  buy  a  Testa- 
ment? I  have  such  a  poor  living,  and  therefore  I  must  here  put 
in  my  word."  Zwingli  said :  "  There  is,  by  God's  grace,  no  priest 
so  poor  that  he  cannot,  if  he  go  seriously  about  it,  buy  a  Testa- 
ment. He  will  find  some  pious  citizen*  who  will  buy  him  one, 
or  advance  him  the  money." 

8.    EeSULTS  of  THE  DISPUTATION. — PRINCIPLES  OBSERVED  BY 

Zwingli  in  the  work  of  Eeformation. 

Although  Zwingli,  in  the  religious  disputation,  had  obtained 
so  decisive  a  victory,  Faber  nevertheless  sought,  by  all  the  arts 

*  Burgomaster  Diethelm  Roist,  son  and  successor  of  Marx,  took,  along  with 
others,  this  hint  of  Zwingli's,  and  presented  the  parson  of  Kirchberg,  Rudolph 
Muetz,  with  a  New  Testament,  expressing  his  wish,  "  that  you  may  read  the 
Divine  Word  with  all  diligence  and  zeal,  and  put  more  faith  in  the  Creator  of 
all  things  than  in  the  poor  weak  creattire  man."  Henry  AVerthmueller,  a  friend 
of  Zwingli's,  and  a  member  of  the  Great  Council,  distributed  several  New  Testa- 
ments among  the  poor. 


RESULTS  OF  THE  DISPUTATION.  10i9 

of  deception,  to  })reserve  the  appearance  of  it  to  liimscli'.  Erhaid 
Hegenwald,  formerly  schoolmaster  in  the  cloister  of  Pfajfiers, 
published  as  faithful  anil  impartial  an  account  as  could  possibly 
have  been  given  of  the  transactions  and  debates  of  the  Confer- 
ence. To  weaken  the  efiibct  of  this  narrative,  which,  in  the 
moderate  tone  that  perv^ades  it,  unquestionably  bears  the  stamp 
of  truth,  and  if  possible,  to  maintain  for  himself  the  honour  of 
victory,  Faber  published  a  passionate  report  of  the  whole  pro- 
ceeding's, teeming  with  odious  attacks  upon  Zwingli  and  the 
Zurichers,  and  full  of  palpable  misrepresentations  and  untruths. 
This  libcd  was  answered  in  a  i)ithy  manner  by  some  of  the  youth 
of  Zurich,  in  a  book  entitled  "  Hawk-pluckings,"*  so  that  out  of 
this  after- fight  Faber  reaped  as  little  honour  as  he  did  out  of  the 
disputation  itself. 

The  Eeformer,  for  his  i)art,  never  for  a  moment  lost  siirht  of 
the  grand  object  in  view — the  restitution  of  the  gospel  to  its 
proper  place  in  the  worship  of  the  sanctuary,  and  its  reinstate- 
ment in  the  aflections  of  the  heart,  and  this  for  the  glory  of  God, 
and  the  salvation  of  perishing  souls.  The  opportunity  not  having 
been  presented  him  of  fully  establishing  his  propositions  or  theses 
at  the  Conference,  he  resolved  t(3  do  this  in  a  separate  publication. 
"  Night  and  day,"  he  afterwards  wrote  to  a  friend,  "  I  laboured  at 
this  work."  In  this  way  he  succeeded,  notwithstanding  his  daily 
sermons,  and  attention  to  a  mass  of  other  business,  in  brinuinfr  it 
to  a  close  within  five  months,  although  it  contains  three  hundred 
pages  closely  printed.  He  published  it  immediately.  Great  was  the 
impression  which  it  made  on  its  appearance,  both  at  home  and 
abroad. -f  Every  Christian  who  thirsted  after  salvation,  was 
enabled  with  it  in  his  hand  to  prove  all  the  ecclesiastical  doc- 
trines, ordinances,  rites,  and  ceremonies  in  the  light  of  God's  "Word. 
In  Zm-ich,  no  alterations  had  as  yet  taken  place  in  public  worship, 
or  in  ecclesiastical  institutions.  Zwingli  had  directed  his  whole 
attention  to  the  preaching  of  the  Word  of  God,  and  implanting 
it  in  the  hearts  of  his  hearers.  He  left  it  with  a  wise  moderation 
and  pious  self-denial  to  God,  to  choose  the  period  of  time  when 
the  renovation  of  His  Church  should  be  effected  on  the  basis  of 

*  A  sharp  polemic,  full  of  liiting  wit.  Its  title  is  lioirowed  from  a  round  game, 
called  as  above. 

t  At  Nurnherg  300  copies  were  disposed  of  at  once. 


110  RESULTS  OF  THE  DISPUTATION. 

His  Word.  The  time  for  a  practical  reformation  appeared  now 
to  have  arrived.  After  the  decisive  victory  which  evangelical 
truth  gained  at  the  Conference,  and  after  Zwingli  in  the  exposition 
and  establishment  of  his  propositions  had  set  his  evangelical 
doctrine  in  so  convincing  a  light  before  the  eyes  of  the  people,  a 
desire  sprang  up  so  strong  and  vigorous  for  the  reorganisation  of 
ecclesiastical  institutions  and  worship,  according  to  the  claims  of 
God's  Word,  that  it  was  impossible  to  resist  it.  Zwingli,  with 
the  most  anxious  and  tender  pastoral  fidelity,  took  care,  in  co- 
operation with  the  magistracy,  that  reform  should  be  carried  out 
in  the  most  orderly  manner.  He  strove  to  effect  it  in  a  way  the 
least  obnoxious  and  grating  to  the  feelings.  It  was  his  desire 
that  the  weak  in  the  faith  should  not  be  offended;  that  the 
broken  reed  might  not  be  broken,  nor  the  smoking  flax  of  faith 
quenched.  "  God  knows  my  heart,"  said  he  on  one  of  these 
occasions,  "  and  that  I  am  more  inclined  to  build  up  than  to  pull 
down."  With  this  amiable  moderation,  he  combined  a  manly 
resolution,  which  led  him  to  the  unsparing  carrying  out  of  par- 
ticular reforms,  when  they  were  necessitated  by  the  demands  of 
God's  Word.  "An  ecclesiastical  institution,  or  a  ceremony  of 
public  worship,  may  be  differently  viewed,"  said  he,  "  but  certain 
it  is  that  that  which  is  contrary  to  the  Word  of  God,  cannot  be 
allowed  to  stand,  'for  every  plant  which  my  heavenly  Father  hath 
not  planted  shall  be  rooted  up,'  Matt.  xv.  13.  If  now,  in  an 
ordinance  condemned  by  God,  \ve  make  a  slight  alteration,  what 
follows — we  must  combat  it  still  by  the  weapons  of  God's  Word, 
whereby  daily  heart-burnings  must  arise.  My  plan  is,  to  set  up 
in  the  Church  of  God  a  work  that  will  preserve  itself  in  the  midst 
of  fire,  and  that  has  nothing  to  fear  from  fire  itself  Such  a  work 
can  only  be  erected  on  the  foundation  Christ,  who  also  is 
the  foundation  of  the  building  of  the  apostles  and  prophets." 
Such  were  the  principles  that  guided  Zwingli  in  the  salutary  work 
of  Church  reform  which  he  now  undertook. 

The  stream  of  reformation,  in  the  first  instance,  directed  itseK 
aerainst  the  institution  of  which  he  was  himself  a  member. 


THE  CATHEDRAL  FOUNDATION.  Ill 


4.  The  Cathedral  Foundation  at  the  Great  Minster. 

The  members  of  this  fouiulatioii,  who  were  to  be  limited  to 
eighteen  in  number,  were,  in  terms  of  Charles  the  Great's  letter 
of  foundation,  to  serve  God  with  prayer  and  praise,  to  furnish  the 
Christians,  in  hill  and  valley,  with  the  means  of  public  worship, 
and  finally,  to  preside  over  the  Cathedral  School,  which,  after  the 
name  of  the  founder,  was  called  the  Charles'  School.  Like 
mo.st  other  ecclesiastical  institutions,  that  of  the  Great  Minster 
soon  degenerated  from  the  i)rinciples  of  its  institution,  and  quickly 
lost  its  original  object  entirely  of  sight.  A  Leut-priest,  with  a 
very  small  salaiy  attached  to  the  office,  but  who  was  comforted 
with  tlie  prospect  of  a  speedy  advancement  to  the  canonsliip, 
was  appointed  to  discharge  the  functions  of  public  worship. 
The  members  of  the  foundation,  for  the  most  part,  gave  them- 
selves up  to  lives  of  idleness,  riot,  and  often  of  licentiousness.* 
There  were,  indeed,  at  the  time  when  Zwingli  was  chosen  to  fill 
the  office  of  Leut-priest,  canons  in  the  foundation  animated  with 
a  different  spirit,  else  his  election  had  hardly  taken  place.  Tlie 
decided  and  vigorous  operations  of  the  Eeformer,  although  they 
often  encountered  a  tierce  opposition,  were  in  general  not  with- 
out fruit  amongst  them,  and  while  the  one  party  openly  and  with 
joy  embraced  the  gospel,  and  subjected  themselves  to  the  obe- 
dience of  faith,  the  other  party  felt  themselves  necessitated  to  lead 
a  life  of  at  least  decent  morality.  Meanwhile,  however,  as  the 
light  of  the  gospel  waxed  stronger,  the  discontentment  among  tlie 
citizens  rose  liigher,  with  the  vast  numbers  of  useless  ecclesias- 
tics, who  drew  large  rents,  and  pocketed  heavy  taxes,  that  were 
paid  with  great  unwillingness.  The  foundation  at  tliis  time  num- 
bered twenty-four  canons  and  thirty-six  chaplains,'!'  besides  the 

*  Felix  Hacmmerlin,  precentor  of  this  foumlation,  in  the  firist  half  of  the 
fifteenth  century,  says  of  these  same  ecclesiastics :  "  A  blacksmith  can,  from  a 
number  of  old  horse  shoes,  jiick  one  out  and  make  it  useable,  but  I  know  no 
smith  who,  otit  of  all  these  canons,  could  make  one  pood  canon." 

t  Chaplain  Widmer.  a  man  of  notoriously  bad  character,  and  a  bitter  enemy  of 
the  Gospel  and  of  Zwingli,  wrote  to  the  voracious  pluralist,  Henry  Goeldli,  (See 
above.  2d  Sect.),  to  Rome  :  '"  I  hear  that  you  intend  to  brin;;  a  falcon  with  you. 
My  advice  to  you  is,  to  let  it  rather  alone,  for  there  is  here  such  a  spirit  prevalent, 
that  wc  priests  can  scarce  walk  safely  about  the  town,  not  to  speak  of  going  a 


112  THE  CATHEDRAL  FOUNDATION. 

Leut-priest  and  his  assistants.  Zwingli  and  his  friends  admitted 
that  the  complaints  made  against  the  institution  were  well- 
grounded,  and  moved  the  appointment  of  a  committee,  selected 
out  of  the  canons  themselves  and  the  Council,  to  deliberate  on  a 
reform,  now  become  absolutely  necessary.  This  committee  was 
appointed  in  September  1523,  and  its  suggestions  were  passed 
into  law  by  a  resolution  of  the  Council,  in  concurrence  with  the 
canons.  In  the  first  place,  certain  burdens  were  removed  from 
the  laity.  No  one  was  any  longer  to  be  forced  to  pay  for  the 
performance  of  baptism,  or  the  last  unction,  for  burials,  or  for 
grave-stones,  unless  the  same  were  expressly  desired  ;  no  one 
was  to  be  obliged  to  deliver  burial-candles,  while  it  stood  open  to 
all  to  light  them  at  their  own  cost ;  no  one  was  to  be  required  to 
pay  for  the  tolling  of  the  great  bell  in  the  Minster,  while,  if  they 
chose,  they  could  pay  for  the  tolling  of  the  bell  either  there  or  at 
the  other  churches.  The  Leut-priest  and  his  assistants  were  to 
be  duly  indemnified  for  the  loss  resulting  to  them  from  the  adop- 
tion of  these  measures,  out  of  the  tithes  and  rents.  It  was 
resolved  to  reduce  the  number  of  the  ecclesiastics,  (those  that 
died  off  were  not  to  be  replaced,)  but  a  sufficient  number  was  to 
be  maintained  for  the  due  performance  of  public  worship,  and 
the  cure  of  souls  in  the  Minster  itself,  and  its  filial  dependencies. 
Canons  and  chaplains,  who  were  henceforth  to  bear  the  common 
name  of  chaplains,  might,  on  condition  that  they  conducted  them- 
selves decently,  and  gave  no  offence  either  in  their  doctrine  or 
lives,  remain  in  the  undistiirbed  enjoyment  of  their  benefices; 
but  the  more  capable  of  them  were  to  be  employed,  with  compe- 
tent salaries,  as  the  ministers  of  parishes,  and  in  this  office  to 
conduct  themselves  with  all  fidelity  as  evangelical  pastors.  The 
amount  of  the  benefices  set  free  by  the  decease  of  canons  was  to 
be  applied  to  the  better  payment  of  the  teachers  in  the  founda- 
tion school,  or  the  Gymnasium,  in  order  that  better  qualified  men 
might  be  obtained  for  these  situations.  Zwingli  at  the  same  time 
called  into  life  an  altogether  new  institution  of  a  higher  order, 
specially  adapted  for  advancing  the  work  of  education  among  the 

falcon-himting,  and  springing  over  the  boor's  hedges.  "We  are  decried  as  use- 
less, good-for-nothing  parsons,  that  for  three  hundred  year.s,  till  the  time  of 
Luther  and  Zwingli,  have  deceived  the  people.  The  common  man  hopes  that 
the  number  of  priests  in  Zurich  will  be  reduced  to  six  or  ten  at  most." 


THE  CATHEDRAL  FOUNDATION.  1  1 :{ 

candidates  for  the  priesthood,  for  affording  intellectual  and  spiri- 
tual exorci.se  to  tlie  canons,  and  promoting  edification  also  among 
the  people.  In  place  of  the  choir-service  in  the  morning,  heed- 
lessly mumbled  over  by  canons  and  chaplains,  a  new  sei"vice 
came  into  existence  on  the  19th  July  1525,  "  tlie  ])rophesying,"  or 
exposition  of  Scripture.  At  eight  o'clock,  all  the  town-parsons, 
predicants,  canons,  and  chaplains,  and  the  more  advanced  scholars, 
a.ssembled  in  the  choir  of  tlie  IMinster  church.  Zwiiigli  having 
delivered,  in  the  Latin  language,  the  prayer,  a  translation  of  which 
we  give  below,  the  exposition  was  begun  with  the  first  chapter 
of  the  First  Book  of  Moses,  in  tlu^  following  manner  :  A  scholar 
read  a  section  of  the  Latin  Translation  of  the  Bible  (the  Vulgate), 
and  the  teacher  commented  upon  it.  The  same  section  was  then 
read  in  the  Hebrew  Text,  then  in  the  Greek  Translation  (the  Sep- 
tuagint),  and  critically,  as  well  as  doctrinally  and  practically, 
explained  in  Latin.  At  first  Zwingli  himself  expounded  out  of  the 
original  text  and  the  Greek  Translation,  but  afterwards  a  special 
master  was  appointed  for  the  Hebrew,  first,  Ceporin,*  and  after 
his  early  death,  Pellican.-f-  This  exercise :{:  lasted  about  an  hour. 
In  the  meantime,  the  congTegation  had  assembled  to  hear  the  ser- 
mon at  nine.  An  ecclesiastic  mounted  the  pulpit,  and  delivered  the 
beautiful  prayer  composed  by  Zwingli :  "O  merciful  God,  heavenly 
Father !  since  Thy  "Word  is  a  light  to  our  feet  and  a  lamp  to  our  path, 
we  pray  Thee  that  Thou  woiddest,  through  Christ,  who  is  the  tme 
light  of  the  whole  world,  open  and  illuminate  our  minds,  clearly 
and  purely  to  understand  Thy  truth,  that  so  we  may  in  no  respect 
offend  Thy  High  ]\Iajesty,  through  our  Lord  and  Saviour,  Jesus 
Christ.  AmeiL"  The  section  of  Scripture  which  had  been  already 
treated  learnedly  was  then  expounded  in  a  manner  level  to  the 
capacities  of  the  congregation,  the  doctrines  and  exhortations  it 
contained  brought  home  to  the  heart,  and  the  whole  proceeding 
closed  with  prayer.  At  the  remaining  hours  the  scholars  of  this 
higher  institution  received  instructions  in  the  languages  and  the 

*  Ceporin  or  Weisendanger,  of  Dynhart,  honi  in  a  villapc  of  tlic  Canton 
Zurich,  wa.s  a  learned  and  well-meaning  young  man,  but  he  filled  the  office  only 
a  short  time,  from  April  till  20th  December,  when  he  died. 

t  Pellicanus  or  Kuersncr,  born  at  Kufart,  in  Elsas,  did  the  dutic.<s  from  1526 
till  1556,  and  rendered  important  service  to  the  cause  of  the  Hefonnation. 

t  Zwingli  callctl  this  scientific  and  didactic  exercise  "jjrophesying,"  in  reference 
to  the  proceedings  alluded  to  in  1  Cor.  xiv. 

H 


114)  THE  CATHEDRAL  FOUNDATIOX. 

sciences  from  the  learned  men  who  were  appointed  in  the  room 
of  the  deceased  canons.  In  respect  of  the  idea  present  to  the 
mind  of  Zwingli  in  regard  to  this  higher  institution,  Myconius 
says  :  "  Zwingii  formed  the  plan  of  founding  an  institution  spe- 
cially intended  for  the  study  of  profane  learning  and  scientific 
theology,  and  I  doubt  not  that,  had  he  survived  the  full  execu- 
tion of  his  plan,  it  would  not  have  found  its  equal  an}^vhere." 
Yet  the  seed  sown  by  Zwingii  in  hope  sprung  up  even  after  he 
himself  had  left  the  scene ;  the  list  of  distinguished  individuals 
in  science,  in  the  Church  and  State,  which  Zurich  can  claim  as 
her  alumni  up  to  the  present  day,  is  the  rich  fruit  of  the  seed 
sown  by  our  Reformer. 

The  secular  authorit}^  and  judicature  which  the  Foundation 
had  hitherto  possessed  w^as  now  transferred  to  the  Council  and 
burghers.  The  revenues,  after  deduction  of  the  salaries  to  school- 
masters and  parsons,  were  applied  in  behalf  of  the  Hospital  for 
the  Poor.  The  change  in  this  Foundation  having  been  thus 
accomplished  in  a  maimer  so  salutaiy,  the  Foundation  of  the 
Frauen  JMinster,  in  which  Zwingli's  friend,  so  often  already  men- 
tioned. Dr.  Engelhard,  laboured  as  Leut-priest,  became  in  its  turn 
animated  ^ith  the  breath  of  reform.  This  Abbey  was  founded, 
as  Bullinger  states,  in  833,  by  King  Ludwig,  the  German,  whose 
daughter,  the  sainted  Hildegard,  was  the  first  Abbess.  At  the 
time  of  the  Reformation,  Catherine  vom  Zimmern,  (or  Zimbern), 
a  Suabian,  held  this  office.  On  the  4th  December  1524,  with 
the  consent  of  the  other  females  of  the  Foundation,  she  handed 
over  to  the  Council  all  its  lands,  revenues,  and  privileges,  on  the 
condition  that  "  an  honourable  Council  should  apply  the  same  to 
the  glory  of  God,  the  salvation  of  souls,  and  the  comfort  and  help 
of  the  poor."  The  females  belonging  to  the  Foundation  were 
secured  in  a  provision  for  life,  and  the  surplus  of  the  income  was 
applied  to  the  benefit  of  the  churches,  the  schools,  and  the  poor. 
Myconius,  wdio  had  been  forced  by  the  enemies  of  the  Gospel  to 
flee  from  Lucerne,  and  had  laboured  for  some  time  at  Einsiedeln, 
with  Geroldseck,  received  an  appointment  as  master  at  the  school 
of  the  Frauen  Minster.  Geroldseck,  when  he  saw  this  friend  of 
the  truth  also  leaving  Einsiedeln  for  Zurich,  1525,  was  oppressed 
with  a  sad  foreboding.  "  It  seemed  to  him  ominous,"  said  he  to  his 
departing  friend,  "that  all  who  acknowledge  Christ  gather  together 


THE  CLOISTEKS.  1 1  ;> 

in  Zurich.  God  grant,"  said  ho,  "  it  may  not  he  topensh  there  toge- 
ther." Myconius,  besides  attending  his  duties  at  the  school,  used 
to  deliver  in  the  evening  instructive  and  edifying  addresses, 
instead  of  the  Vespers  formerly  read,  on  parts  of  the  New  Testa- 
ment, in  the  German  language,  and  at  these  meetings  he  had  a 
large  attendance  as  well  of  the  clergy  as  of  the  laity,  men  and 
women;  "for,"  says  Leonhard  Weiss,  "he  could  instruct  in  a 
manner  very  intelligible  and  entertaining." 

Thus  these  two  ancient  ecclesiastical  Foundations,  renovated 
by  the  breath  of  that  evangelical  spirit,  fanned  by  God  in  the 
breast  of  Zwingli,  became  institutions  that  have  eminently  pro- 
moted the  salvation  of  souls,  the  glory  of  Zurich,  and  the  Church 
of  Christ,  and  they  wall  continue  to  do  so  as  long  as  genuine  piety 
and  sterling  truth  preserve  their  sacred  alliance. 

lUit  even  those  ecclesiastical  institutions,  which  for  a  time 
obstinately  resisted  the  influence  of  the  gospel,  could  just  as  little 
eventually  withstand  it  as  the  snow  and  ice  of  the  mountains  can 
resist  the  genial  influences  of  spring, — we  mean  the  cloisters. 


5.  The  Cloisters. 

We  have  already  mentioned  that  Zwingli,  and  afterwards  Leo 
Jud,  at  the  order  of  the  Council,  preached  in  the  nunneries,  and 
discharged  the  duties  of  pastors  there,  and,  on  the  other  hand, 
that  the  preaching-monks  were  forbidden  to  enter  these  institu- 
tions. The  preaching  of  the  gospel  bore  here,  too,  its  fruit. 
Several  nuns,  especially  from  the  Cloister  Oetenbach,  petitioned 
the  Council  for  permission  to  leave  the  cloister,  and  take  with 
them  the  little  property  they  brought  to  it.  The  Council,  on  the 
17th  June  1523,  resolved  to  grant  their  petition.  Many  availed 
themselves  of  the  pennission  thus  given;  others  wished  to  live 
and  die  in  the  cloister.  These  latter  were  also  allowed  to  follow 
their  own  desires,  on  the  condition  that  the  women  of  the  various 
cloisters  should  lay  aside  the  dress  of  their  order,  and  dwell 
together  in  one  house,  peaceably,  and  diligently  attend  the  preach- 
ing of  the  go.spel;  tho.se  who,  at  a  later  period,  might  wi.sh  to 
change  their  mode  of  life,  had  the  liberty  to  do  so  at  any  time,  the 
othei-s  maintaining  their  vows  till  death,  with  a  suitable  provision. 


116  THE  CLOISTEES. 

A  sterner  conflict  liad  to  be  wacred  witli  the  monks.  Zwinc^li 
had  proved,  by  the  Word  of  God,  that  all  monkish  establishments 
were  condemned  by  it.  "  Christ  says,  Matt,  xxiii.  9  :  '  And  call 
no  man  your  father  upon  the  earth  :  for  one  is  your  Father,  which 
is  in  heaven.'  In  these  words  it  was  not  the  intention  of  Christ 
to  forbid  us  from  calling  our  natural  fathers  by  the  name  of 
father,  but  simply  that  we  should  render  submission  to  none  as  a 
teacher  or  guide,  except  to  the  one  heavenly  Father,  and  the  only 
Master  and  Guide,  Christ.  It  is  hence  clear  that  all  who  have 
arrogated  to  themselves  the  title  of  Fathers,  and  that  likewise  all 
who  acknowledge  tliem  as  such,  and  adhere  to  them  as  such,  do 
this  against  the  express  command  of  God,  and  diminish  the  gioiy 
of  Christ.  They  may  say,  'Yes,  we  know  well  that  God  is  our 
Father;  we  have  only  adopted  a  pious  and  holy  man  as  our 
schoolmaster  and  guide.'  They  yet  contravene  the  spirit  of  the 
command  already  noticed :  Ye  shall  have  God  alone  for  your 
Master;  you  are  to  listen  to  His  word,  and  not  to  the  idle  words 
of  man,  however  wise  man  may  appear.  This  word  is  also 
against  it :  '  Neither  be  ye  called  masters ;  for  one  is  your  Master 
even  Christ,'  after  whom,  indeed,  ye  ought  to  carry  the  cross,  but 
not  after  Dominicus,  Benedictus,  Franciscus,  Antonius,  or  Bern- 
hardus.  If  these  were  alive  at  the  present  day,  they  would,  that 
is,  if  they  were  true  Christians,  undoubtedly  tell  you,  '  0  foolish 
men,  what  are  ye  about,  know  ye  not  that  ye  ought  to  have  no 
other  master,  father,  or  guide,  but  God  alone  ?  Wiry  hold  to  us, 
who  have  all  our  lives  long  held  ourselves  on  God  alone?'  In 
short,  all  distinction  of  one  from  another  in  the  body  of  the  faith- 
ful, be  it  by  name,  order,  or  any  title  whatsoever,  is  wrong,  is  a 
sin,  a  lie,  and  a  deception.  Many  will  think  this  a  hard  word, 
for  which  I  may  be  severely  censured.  You  talk  nonsense,  it 
will  be  said  to  me.  How  many  saints  in  the  orders  of  monkery 
have  come  to  God  and  been  saved  !  Answer :  Shew  me  the  bonds 
of  their  salvation.  The  Antichrist  of  Rome,  indeed,  has  said,  by 
his  fat-bellied  parsons,  they  are  saved ;  I,  for  my  part,  trust  the 
simple  word  of  Christ,  who  is  the  truth  itself,  more  than  that  of 
all  the  Popes,  who  have  followed  another  rule  than  the  doctrine 
of  Christ.  But  have  not  the  Fathers,  sayest  thou,  the  Popes  and 
Councils,  confirmed  the  orders?  Answer:  Similar  dishes  have 
similar  handles.    The  Popes  and  Councils  have  but  fairly  enough 


THE  CLOISTERS.  117 

confirmed  tlieir  flatterers  and  supporters.  Why  do  they  not 
ob.sei've  the  word  of  C'lnist  (JNlatt.  xxiii.  9),  froni  which  they 
might  well  see  they  ought  to  say:  Follow  tlie  doctrine  of  Christ 
alone,  pay  no  regard  to  the  Fathers,  foHuw  none  hut  Christ? 
Is  it  not  evident  from  this  very  contirniation  how  the  matter 
stands?  That  wliich  comes  from  CJod  recpiires  no  confirmation  at 
all,  for  to  the  faithful  it  is  enough  that  God  teaches  it?  The  anti- 
christians,  however,  have  been  obliged  to  confirm  this  same 
monkery,  because  it  has  no  foundation  in  the  Word  of  God ;  on 
the  contrary,  it  is  contradicted  by  it.  Verily,  what  a  fine  foun- 
dation the  orders  have !  I  will  not  speak  of  the  knavery  of 
praising  poverty,  while  none  are  more  avaricious  and  greedy  of 
wealth  than  the  monks.  Tliey  praise,  too,  obedience,  and  yet 
they  refuse  all  obedience  to  God  and  man.  God  they  do  not 
obey;  for  when  lie  commands  us  to  call  no  man  'Father'  except 
himself,  they  set  themselves  up  as  mock-fathers,  and  when  He 
commands  us  to  honour  father  and  mother,  and  to  stand  by  them, 
they  say,  '  No  ;  thou  shalt  no  more  regard  father  and  mother,'  as  if 
their  order  were  that  for  which  I  must  leave  father  and  mother. 
0  impious  falsifiers  of  the  Divine  Word  !  Understand  that  Christ 
then  only  commands  us  to  leave  father  and  mother  when  they 
would  make  us  apostates  from  the  faith.  "SMiere,  pray,  has  He 
commanded  this  for  any  order's  sake?  Such  authority  it  will  be 
difficult  to  find,  as  He  nowhere  allows  an  order  at  all.  To  the 
magistracy  they  are  as  little  obedient,  and  yet  Peter  and  Paul 
command  us  to  obey  it.  Yes,  they  would  rather  stir  up  mur- 
derous wars,  as  has  often  been  done,  than  obey  the  words  of  the 
apostles.  Eeflect  whether  they  love  this  world's  goods  or  not. 
With  their  neighbour  they  hold  nothing  in  common,  to  which  yet 
the  obedience  of  Christ  binds  us ;  they  suffer  not  with  the  suffer- 
ing, they  work  not  with  the  working,  they  sorrow  not  with  the 
sorrowing,  and  alms  they  distribute  from  the  leavings  of  their 
wealth.  "\Miat  shall  I  say  ?  The  earth  bears  not  a  greater  burden 
upon  it  than  these  hooded  fattening-hogs.  Q>ly  words  api)ly  not 
to  those  pious  brethren  of  the  orders  who,  having  p\ire  and  upright 
hearts,  are  conscientiously  devoted  to  the  doctrine  of  Christ,  and 
would  follow  it  if  only  they  could.)  In  respect  to  chastity,  which 
they  vf»w  to  oV)seiTO,  Ave  know  very  well  how  little  they  oltserve 
it.      Fnnn  all  this  it  follows,  tliat  all  that  all  flir  monks  on  oartli 


1 1 8  THE  CLOISTERS. 

with  their  cowls  have  invented  is  a  base  system  of  hypocrisy,  and 
an  open  assault  on  God  and  His  Word.  Here  it  may  be  objected ; 
a  priest  must  be  distinguished  from  the  common  man,  be  it  by  a 
a  bald  pate,  or  by  clothing.  Answer:  He  who  will  distinguish 
himself  from  his  brother  by  badges  or  dress  is  a  hypocrite ;  for 
we  have  another  way  to  make  ourselves  venerated.  Christ 
teaches  us  that  we  ought  to  excel  each  other  in  humility.  He 
says  also,  '  By  this  shall  all  men  know  that  ye  are  my  disciples, 
if  ye  have  love  one  to  another.'  (John  xiii.  35.)  If  we  love  all  men 
as  ourselves,  and  zealously  preach  the  word  of  salvation,  take  to 
heart  the  ills  of  all,  and  help  them  to  the  utmost  of  our  power, 
then  men  will  recognise  us,  yea,  the  children  themselves  will  know 
us  without  any  external  sign ;  the  devil,  too,  will  not  suffer  us, 
but  will  cry  against  us  as  the  possessed  daughter  at  Philippi 
cried  against  Paul.  But  when  once  we  have  lost  our  true  dignity, 
the  real  power  of  God,  I  mean  an  intrepid,  joyous,  upright  soul, 
then  it  is  we  assume  a  feigned  character,  with  baldness,  with 
cowls  and  cloaks ;  that  when  we  are  without  use  to  God  or  the 
world,  men  may  admire  at  least  our  clothes,  as  the  children  stare 
at  the  gold-bespangled  mules  of  the  Pope.  AVliat  the  people  of 
the  orders  ought  principally  to  do  is,  to  examine  fundamentally 
Divine  truth,  and  to  see  that  this  glorious  light  arise  in  the 
hearts  of  men ;  they  ought,  at  the  same  time,  so  to  conduct  them- 
selves as  to  give  no  offence,  and  they  ought  to  lay  aside  all  hypo- 
crisy, and  wear  no  more  cowls.  Those  who  can  work  ought  to 
support  themselves  by  the  labour  of  their  hands ;  if  any,  in  con- 
sequence of  poverty  or  destitution  of  means,  are  obliged  to  remain 
in  the  cloisters,  they  ought  to  follow  there  no  other  rule  but  the 
rule  of  Christ,  and  bear  no  other  name  but  the  name  of  Christ ; 
nay,  they  should  rather  die  than  do  otherwise. 

To  snore  behind  the  walls  of  a  cloister  is  not  to  worship  God. 
But  to  visit  widows  and  orphans,  that  is  to  say,  the  destitute  in 
their  affliction,  and  to  keep  oneself  unspotted  from  the  world, 
that  is  truly  to  worship  God,  (James  i.  27.)  The  world  in  this 
place  does  not  mean  hill  and  valley,  field  and  forest,  water,  lakes, 
towns  and  villages,  but  the  lusts  of  the  world,  as  avarice,  pride, 
uncleanness,  intemperance.  These  vices,  however,  are  more  com- 
monly to  be  met  with  within  the  walls  of  a  cloister  than  in  the 
world  abroad.     I  speak  not  of  envy  and  hatred,  which  have  their 


THE  CLOISTERS.  1  1 }) 

liabitatiou  among  this  crew,  aiid  yet  these  are  all  greater  sins 
than  those  they  would  fain  escape  by  fleeing  to  a  cloister.  Con- 
sider, ye  monks,  your  revels,  and  see  how  temperate  you  are; 
rich  food  along  with  idleness  avails  not  the  body,  but  ministers 
only  incentives  to  carnal  lusts.  Therefore,  let  the  monks  lay 
aside  all  their  badges,  their  cowls,  and  their  regulations,  and  let 
them  put  themselves  on  a  level  with  the  rest  of  Christendom,  and 
unite  themselves  to  it,  if  they  would  truly  obey  the  Word  of  God." 

In  accordance  with  these  soundly  evangelical  principles  and 
doctrines  laid  down  by  Zwingli  upon  tliis  subject,  a  resolution 
was  passed  by  the  Council,  in  December  1.524,  to  reform  the 
monasteries.  The  resolution  was  to  the  effect,  that  the  monks 
were  to  lay  aside  their  monkish  habiliments,  and  live  together  in 
the  monastery  of  the  barefooted  friars.  At  unawares,  and  without 
Ijrevious  announcement,  on  one  Saturday  afternoon  a  body  of 
delegates  from  the  chief  guilds,  accompanied  by  members  of  the 
Council  and  citizens,  and  followed  by  the  town  militia,  proceeded 
to  the  houses  of  the  ministers  of  the  Gospel,  to  take  them  with 
them;  fn^m  thence  they  repaired  to  the  Augustine  monastery, 
assembled  in  this  building  all  the  friars,  and  announced  the  above 
resolution  of  the  Council,  with  the  intimation  they  were  forthwith 
to  follow  them.  The  presence  of  the  armed  servants  of  the  town 
gave  the  necessary  emphasis  to  the  demand.  The  mf)nks  plainly 
perceived  that  if  they  offered  resistance,  they  would  be  forced  to 
yield  obedience.  In  this  quiet  manner,  the  death-blow  was  given 
to  the  monkish  establishments  of  Zurich. 

The  younger  friars,  who  showed  talent  and  inclination,  were 
made  to  study ;  the  others  had  to  learn  a  trade ;  the  strangers 
were  furnished  with  the  necessaiy  travelling  money  to  go  to  their 
homes,  or  to  re-enter  a  cloister  in  their  own  country;  the  frail 
and  aged  had  a  competent  settlement  made  upon  them,  with  the 
condition  attached,  that  they  were  regularly  to  attend  the  evan- 
gelical ser\'ice,  and  give  offence  to  none  either  by  their  doctrines 
or  lives.  The  wealth  of  the  monasteries  was  for  the  most  part 
applied  to  the  relief  of  the  poor  and  the  sick,*  since,  forsooth,  the 

*  A  noble  fruit  of  the  Refonnatioii  is  to  be  seen  in  the  institutions  for  .sick 
and  poor,  which  the  dissolution  of  the  cloisters  called  into  life.  Kvcry  kind  of 
<loor  and  street-beppari-  wa.s  forbidden  by  an  order  issued  in  152.'),  while  at  the 


1 20  CELIBACY. 

cloisters  called  themselves  the  asylums  of  the  poor ;  and  only  a 
small  part  was  reserved  for  the  churches  and  schools.  By  this 
beneficent  transformation  of  the  cloisters  into -institutions  for  the 
exercise  of  Christian  charity,  and  by  the  redemption  of  the  monks 
from  monastic  idleness  to  useful  activity  as  members  of  the  com- 
munity, one  great  grievance  which  the  Church  inflicted  on 
Christianity  was  abolished. 

But  to  restore  to  full  apostolical  dignity  and  efficiency  the 
ecclesiastical  calling,  it  was  necessary  to  strike  off  from  it  the 
fetters  of  an  ungodly  celibacy. 


same  time  a  competent  support  was  given  to  the  home  and  stranger  poor. 
Thus,  for  example,  the  poor  scholars  were  not  allowed  any  longer  to  beg  their 
living  by  singing  beneath  the  windows,  as  was  customary  before  the  Reformation. 
Instead  of  this,  a  certain  number  of  them  (sixteen  from  the  Canton  Zurich,  four 
strangers)  received  daily  soup  and  bread,  and  two  schillings  weekly.  Stranger 
beggars  and  pilgrims  were  allowed  only  to  pass  through  the  town,  and  nowhere 
to  beg;  if  they  came  in  the  forenoon,  they  received  at  mid-day  bread  and  soup, 
and  were  obliged  to  depart  in  the  afternoon ;  if  they  arrived  in  the  afternoon 
they  received  bread  and  soup  for  supper,  and  were  obliged  to  leave  on  the  fol- 
lowing morning,  and  not  return  within  six  months  without  special  reason 
assigned.  The  sick  and  aged  were  supported  in  the  cloister  of  the  barefoot 
monks  ;  the  stranger-sick  in  the  hospital  of  St.  Moritz,  upon  the  Spanweit.  The 
domestic  poor  received  daily,  in  the  dissolved  monastery  of  the  Augustines, 
strong  broth  andone-quai'terpoiind  of  rye-bread.  From  the  receipt  of  this  aid,there 
were  excluded  "all  who  wore  gold  and  silver,  silk,"  and  such  like  ornaments  and 
jewels ;  farther,  all  who  housed  bad  characters,  or  lent  their  hand  to  embezzle- 
ment; who  without  just  cause  neglected  sermon  and  the  holy  sacrament;  who 
swore,  cursed  or  lived  in  dispeace;  who  frequented  the  piiblic-house,  played 
cards,  &c.  Those  who  foolishly  squandered  away  their  means  received  no  alms, 
till  they -were  reduced  to  the  utmost  extremity.  A  respectable  ecclesiastic 
with  a  pious  layman,  had  to  seek  them  out  in  their  own  quarters,  examine,  take 
notes  who  was  destitute  and  woi-thy  of  receiving  alms.  What  they  foimd,  they 
had  to  report  to  the  Alms-Office,  and  shew  how  the  poor  and  sick  were  treated, 
the  children  of  poor  parents  educated  and  trained  from  beggary  to  earn  their 
livelihood  by  work.  To  carry  out  the  above  regiilations,  the  Augustine  monastery 
was  turned  into  a  kitchen  for  the  poor,  the  cloister  of  the  barefoot  friars  into  an 
hospital  for  the  sick,  the  old  hospital  to  quarters  for  the  vagrant  poor.  The 
convent  in  Sellnau  was  made  a  Lazaret;  the  nunnery  of  OEtenbach,  a  convent 
for  these  institutions;  and  the  Dominican  church  was  transformed  into  a  third 
town-church.  The  country  cloisters  Avere  applied  principally  to  the  beneiit  of 
the  poor.  In  this  manner,  the  Government  could  say  with  perfect  justice  :  "  We 
shall  so  act  with  cloister  property  that  we  can  neither  be  reproached  before  God 
nor  the  world.  We  might  not  have  the  sin  upon  our  consciences  of  applying  the 
wealth  of  one  single  cloister  to  fill  the  coffers  of  the  State." 


CELIBACY.  121 


C.  Celibacy. 


AVe  have  seen  above  that  Zwingli,  and  those  office-bearers  in 
Church  and  State  who  shared  his  sentiments,  next  to  the  full 
liberty  of  preaching  the  CJospel,  ardently  desired  the  abrogation 
of  the  law  of  celibacy.  Conscientious  i)riests,  who  felt  that  the 
gift  of  continency  was  denied  them,  had  been  in  the  practice  of 
secretly  entering  into  matrimonial  relations,  which  were  not 
consummated  by  any  pulilic  ceremony,  which  were,  however, 
faithfully  observed,  and  which  enjoyed  the  general  approbation 
of  the  people,  as  also  the  countenance  of  the  magistrates.  The 
latter,  on  the  expressed  desire  of  the  parties  to  that  effect,  declared 
the  children  of  such  unions  capable  of  inheriting.  The  bishops, 
on  their  part,  permitted  to  the  ecclesiastics  any  kind  of  concu- 
binage, on  the  payment  of  four  Uhenish  florins,  only  no  publicly 
consummated  marriage.  On  this,  Zwingli  said:  "1  know  not  a 
greater  scandal  in  the  world  than  this,  that  priests  are  not  allowed 
to  marry,  but  are  allowed  against  a  payment  made  to  keep 
whores.  The  teacher  or  the  prophet,  who  will  rebuke  the  vices 
of  men,  must  himself  be  obnoxious  neither  to  punishment  nor 
censure,  (Titus  i.  6.,)  that  he  may  not  have  it  said  to  him, 
'  Physician  heal  thyself.'  '  AVhy  dost  not  thoii  first  punish  thy- 
self, and  draw  out  the  beam  from  thine  o\vn  eye  that  thou  mayest 
see  clearly  to  pull  out  that  which  is  in  mine?'  Therefore  Paul,  not 
without  good  grounds,  but  to  prevent  such  vices,  has  commanded 
that  the  bishop  or  overseer  be  the  husband  of  one  wife,  knowing 
well  that  continence  is  not  the  gift  of  every  man ;  and  yet  the 
eyes  of  all  men  turn  to  the  overseer,  bishop,  or  minister,  to  see 
how  he  demeans  himself  Paul  knew  this;  and  therefore,  to 
prevent  scandal  being  found  upon  him,  he  commanded  him  to 
take  a  wife.  Christ  says,  Matt.  xix.  12,  'He  that  is  able  to 
receive  it,  let  him  receive  it'  But  only  those  are  able  to  whom 
God  has  gi-anted  special  grace.  Paul  teaches  also,  1  Tim.  iv.  1-3, 
'  Now  the  Spirit  speaketh  expressly,  that  in  the  latter  times  some 
shall  depart  from  the  faith,  giving  heed  to  seducing  spirit.'!,  and 
doctrines  of  devOs  ;  speaking  lies  in  hypocrisy ;  having  their 
conscience  seared  with  a  hot  iron ;  forhiddwg  to  marry'  &c.  See 
what   an   inventor  the  doctrine  of  liypocritical  ]iurity  ha.s, — the 


122  CELIBACY. 

devil  himself!  The  devil  now  being  the  author  of  the  for- 
bidding to  marry,  we  know,  on  the  other  hand,  that  God  has 
appointed  marriage,  and  hath  blessed  it.  Those,  then,  act  a 
most  wicked  part  who  take  from  pious,  inexperienced,  young 
priests  the  vow  of  celibacy.  For  they  know  well  that  such  a 
vow  cannot  be  held,  tvithoiit  the  special  grace  of  God,  yet  they 
receive  it  and  have  it  confirmed  by  oath.  If  they  knew  not  such 
things  from  the  Scripture,  they  might  learn  them  from  their  own 
experience ;  for  they  must  recollect  what  trials  they  had  to  con- 
tend with  in  their  younger  years,  and  how  often  their  conscience 
was  lacerated  ;  and  they  may  well  conclude  that  it  is  no  better 
with  others  than  it  was  with  themselves.  They  act  with  the 
poor  men  as  perfidious  carriers,  who  give  not  the  warning  of  dan- 
ger to  those  that  follow  them,  but  say,  in  a  spirit  of  mischief, 
'  Let  him  be  overturned  as  well  as  I.'  Thus  they  say,  '  Since  I 
have  been  murdered  myself,  I  will  let  the  souls  of  others  be  mur- 
dered also.'  The  real  reason,  however,  why  this  vice  is  not 
done  away  with,  but  that  both  spiritual  and  temporal  authorities 
look  on  the  e\Tls  it  entails  with  indifference,  comes  from  hence, 
that  the  great  bishops  look  more  to  the  money-bags  than  millers 
to  their  meal-bags." 

After  the  episcopal  authority  had  practically  passed  into  the 
hands  of  the  Council  in  Zurich,  several  ecclesiastics  used  the 
liberty  granted  them  in  the  Word  of  God,  and  married.  The 
first  who  openly  ventured  to  take  this  step  was  William  Ea?ubli,* 
parson  of  Wytikon,  a  young  man  w^ho  very  willingly  made  a  parade 
of  his  boldness  in  being  the  first  to  enter  the  ranks  of  matrimony. 
On  the  28th  April  1523,  he  was  married,  in  his  own  parish 
church,  to  a  young  woman  from  the  village  Hirslanden,  and  very 
soon  his  example  was  followed  by  others.  Zwingli's  friend,  Leo 
Jud,  married,  on  the  19th  December  of  the  same  year,  a  nun 
from  the  cloister  at  Einsiedeln,  Catherine  Gmuender  of  St.  Gall. 
The  marriage,-f-  which  had  for  some  time  been  already  secretly  con- 
summated between  Zwingli  and  Anna  Eeinhard,  widow  of  the 

*  lie  afterwards  joined  the  Anabaptists,  and  became  one  of  the  heads  of  tliis 
sect  in  Zurich. 

t  There  is  no  doubt  whatever  that  a  private  marriage  existed  so  early  as  the 
first  half  of  the  year  1522  between  Zwingli  and  Anna  Reinhard,  which  was  no 
secret,  either  to  his  friends  or  enemies,  especially  as  he  lived  in  the  same  house 
with  Anna.     His  intimate  friend  Myconius,  in  a  letter  of  the  22d  July  1 522,  greets 


CELIBACY.  123 

deceased  John  jNlcycr  von  Knonau,  was  publicly  celebrated  in 
the  Minster  Church  on  the  2d  April  1524,  to  the  great  joy  of  all 
his  friends,  both  at  home  and  abroad.  Bucer  wrote  to  liiin  from 
Strasburg,  "  "NVlien  I  learned  from  your  letter  to  Capito  that  you 
had  publicly  celebrated  your  marriage,  I  was  out  of  myself  with 
joy."  Zwingli's  faithful  helpmate,  Avhen  she  gave  him  her  hand, 
had  already  passed  through  a  school  of  severe  suffering,  which 
enabled  her  fully  to  comprehend  the  mind  of  her  dear  husband, 
well  balanced  as  it  \vas  between  heroic  faith  and  patient  foiti- 
tiule,  and  to  elevate  herself  to  the  joys  which  also  gilded  the  spiri- 
tual course  of  the  great  Reformer,  and  she  could  afterwards  bear 
with  siibmission  the  heaviest  trial  which  can  tear  the  heart  of 
wife  or  mother,  to  which  she  \vas  at  a  later  period  subjected.* 

Zwiiigli  with  liis  icife;  ami,  at  the  end  of  the  same  year,  he  writes  again,  "fare 
thee  well,  with  thy  gpouse  in  Christ."  The  highly  estiniahle  Merle  d'Auhigne,  in 
his  excellent  •' History  of  the  Keforniation,"  terms  the  delay  of  the  ecclesiastical 
proclamation  and  contirmation  of  these  secret  espousals,  "  a  hlameable  weakness 
on  the  part  of  the  otherwise  so  resolute  man."  We,  for  our  part,  are  forced  to 
confess  that  we  cannot  at  all  agree  in  this  censure.  We  conceive  the  conduct 
of  the  RefoiTuer  must  he  judged  by  the  standard  of  the  then  existing  relations, 
and  the  principles  of  morality  which  he  drew  from  the  Word  of  God.  Such  a 
secret  man'iage  on  the  ])art  of  an  ecclesiastic  was  then  generally  regarded  as  an 
essentially  moral  relation.  The  much-esteemed  Dean  Bullinger,  in  Bremgarten, 
had,  for  example,  such  a  connection,  from  which  his  afterwards  famous  son 
sprang.  Besides,  Zwingli's  marriage  was  on  no  occasion  brought  before  the 
Church-courts,  nor  once  made  the  subject  of  reproach  to  him  by  his  bitterest 
enemies,  who  caught  at  the  most  absurd  stories  to  vilify  him — a  proof  that 
nothing  censurable  could  be  drawn  from  it.  Zwingli  himself,  after  Matt,  xviii., 
regarded  offence-giving  as  a  heinous  sin.  That  he  might  give  his  parishioners  no 
offence,  he  entered  into  wedlock,  to  which  state  he  found  himself,  after  serious 
self-examination,  a]>pointed  by  God,  and  he  entered  it  in  a  manner  which  was 
in  accordance  with  the  moral  conceptions  of  the  times,  and  the  princi])les  then 
generally  recognized.  Had  he  made  a  public  celebration  of  his  marriage,  before 
the  judgment  of  his  people  had  been  strengthened  and  refined  by  the  preaching 
of  the  Word,  he  could  hardly  have  failed  in  giving  offence,  and  estranging  many 
from  the  gospel.  When  he  felt  convinced  that  a  public  celebration  of  his  mar- 
riage not  only  would  give  to  the  great  majority  of  his  people  no  offence,  but 
would  be  regarded  by  them  as  a  confirmation  of  the  principles  of  his  evangelical 
preaching,  he  delayed  not  an  hour  to  imjilement  it.  In  all  this  I  not  only  find 
no  "  censurable  weakness,"  but  the  same  wise  and  temj)erate  regard  to  tlie  feel- 
ings and  religious  development  attained  by  his  congregation  which  he  mani- 
fested in  the  earning  out  of  ever}-  other  reform.  His  mind  was  naturally 
inclined  '"to build  up,  and  not  to  pidl  down,"  as  he  in  all  truth  says  himself. 

*  In  the  unhappy  battle  of  Kappcl  she  lost,  besides  licr  dear  husliaml,  GcroM 
Meyer,  her  son,  her  son-in-law,  and  other  relatives. 


124  CELIBACY. 

As  a  maid  of  surpassing  beauty,  of  tranquil  soul,  and  spotless 
character,  she  had  won  the  affections  of  the  young  nobleman, 
John  Meyer  von  Knonau,  who  had  been  brought  up  at  the  court 
of  his  relative,  the  Bishop  of  Constance.  This  young  man, 
according  to  his  fiitlier's  wish,  was  to  marry  a  noble  damsel  out 
of  the  Thurgau,  but  the  son  followed  the  choice  of  his  heart,  and, 
unknown  to  his  father,  had  his  union  consummated  with  Anna 
Eeinhard  in  a  country  parish  church.  At  this  step  the  old  man 
was  so  incensed  that  he  forbade  his  son  his  house,  refused  him 
the  means  of  support,  and,  in  so  far  as  the  laws  of  Zurich  per- 
mitted, disinherited  him.  John,  compelled  by  the  harshness  of 
his  father  to  seek  his  maintenance  in  the  ranks  of  mercenary 
warfare,  died  in  lolo,  leaving  behind  him  his  widow  with  three 
children,  a  son  and  two  daughters.  The  grandfather  refused  to 
have  anything  to  do  with  the  family  of  his  deceased  son,  till  the 
following  occurrence  brought  about  a  reconciliation.  One  day 
the  widow's  nursery-maid  went  with  Gerald,  a  lively,  sprightly 
boy,  to  the  fish-market.  The  grandfather,  who  sat  in  the  com- 
pany of  some  friends  at  the  window  of  an  adjoining  inn,  saw  the 
boy  sitting  in  a  fish-basket,  and  demeaning  himself  with  such 
good  humour  that  he  attracted  all  eyes  on  him.  "  Whose  hand- 
some child  is  this?"  the  grandfather  inquired,  with  an  expression 
of  satisfaction  in  his  face.  He  was  told  it  was  his  grandson. 
He  immediately  ordered  the  child  to  be  brought  to  him,  embraced 
him,  kissed  him,  and  from  that  moment  all  his  grudge  against 
the  mother  was  forgotten.  Unliappily,  the  newly  won  grand- 
father and  benefactor  died  very  shortly  after  this  incident. 
Zwingli,  in  whose  neighbourhood  the  young  Widow  Meyer 
lived,  got  very  fond  of  the  lively  and  intelligent  Gerald,  whose 
education  he  superintended  with  a  fatherly  care.  On  his  return 
from  one  of  his  tours  to  the  baths,  he  made  him  a  bath-present 
of  his  Educational  Treatise. 

By  this  transformation  of  the  cloisters  into  benevolent  institu- 
tions, and  the  dissolution  of  celibacy,  a  wholesome  reform  was 
accomplished  amongst  the  clergy,  and  great  scandals  were 
removed.  Zwingli  now  turned  his  eye  upon  the  grand  central 
point  of  that  corniption  which  prevailed  in  the  service  of  the 
sanctuary,  the  mass,  with  the  intention  of  bringing  it  back  to  its 


IMAGES  AND  THE  MASS.  125 

original  simplicity  and  significance,  as  ordained  by  Christ.  The 
course  of  affairs  brought  another  (^icstion  into  connection  with 
it,  that  of  "  Images."  We  shall  follow  the  thread  of  liistory,  and 
treat  of  botli  in  the  order  in  which  it  presents  them  to  us. 


7.  Images  and  the  IMass. — Second  Disputation,  and  its 
Consequences. 

Zwingli  had  already,  in  the  exposition  and  proof  of  his  pro- 
positions, expressed  and  developed  the  view  that  the  mass  is  not 
a  sacrifice.  In  a  farther  treatise  upon  the  subject,  he  exposed 
the  faidts  and  errors  of  the  mass-canon,*  and  threw  out  sugges- 
tions  for  its  amelioration.  Shortly  after  this  appeared,  he  was 
obliged,  in  a  defence  of  the  views  therein  propounded,  still  far- 
ther to  develope  and  establish  them,  and  in  part  also  to  connect 
them.  "  I  put  this  small  apology  in  haste  upon  paper,"  says 
he,  "  to  make  it  plain  to  every  one  that  I  neither  approve  of 
theatrical -f-  mass  robes  nor  the  chanting  in  a  language  unintel- 
ligible to  the  people,  be  it  of  holy  Scripture  or  anything  else,  and 
also  that  no  one  may  have  ground  to  complain  he  has  been  mis- 
led by  any  silence  of  mine  upon  this  subject."  "WHiile  Zwingli 
was  thus  preparing  a  retbrmation  of  the  idolatrous  worship  of 
the  Church,  from  its  central  point  outwards,  a  young  priest, 
Louis  Hetzer;):  by  name,  in  a  small  work,  written  in  the  Oernian 
language,  and  entitled,  "The  Judgment  of  God  as  to  how  the 
Images  are  to  be  dealt  with,"  cast  a  fire-brand  among  the  people 
which  impelled  some  ardent  spirits  to  acts  of  violence  against 
the  images.  There  stood  before  the  town-gate,  at  the  Stadel- 
hofen,  a  richly  adorned  crucifix,  which  enjoyed  a  high  venera- 
tion.     It  sorely  annoyed  an  honest  burgher,  well-versed  in  the 


*  On  the  mass-ciinon,  September  1523. 

t  In  his  scheme  of  reform  he  had  retained  the  mas.s-rol)C,  on  account  of  the 
symbolic  signification  of  some  parts  of  it. 

X  A  native  of  Bischofszell,  or,  according  to  others,  a  Bavarian.  He  was  a 
learned,  but  liot-headed  man,  of  an  impetuous  temper,  which  led  him  after- 
wards into  the  ranks  of  the  Anabiiptists.  He  was  liehcadcd  at  Constance  for 
proved  adultery,  in  1529. 


126  IMAGES  AND  THE  MASS. 

Scriptures,  the  shoemaker  Nicolas  Hottinger.  One  day,  as  tlie 
shoemaker  stood  surveying  it,  he  asked  the  miller  of  Stadelhofen, 
to  whom  it  belonged,  when  he  intended  to  take  that  thing 
away.  The  miller  rej)lied :  "  Nobody  bids  you  worship  it,  Nicolas ; 
but  if  you  feel  yourself  empowered,  you  may  take  it  away 
whenever  you  please;  I  give  "it  up  to  you."  Nicolas,  on  receiv- 
ing this  license,  marched  out  one  September  morning,  accom- 
panied by  a  body  of  the  citizens,  took  down  the  image,  and  sold 
the  wood  for  the  benefit  of  the  hospital  poor.  This  act  caused  a 
great  sensation,  and  created  a  violent  outcry  on  the  part  of  the 
Papists,  who  shouted,  "Down  with  these  men;  they  are  church 
robbers,  and  deserving  of  death."  The  commotion  was  increased 
by  the  following  circumstance : — One  day,  Laurence  Meyer,  vicar 
of  St.  Peter's,  said  to  another  vicar  he  had  a  great  desire  to  knock 
down  the  idols  from  the  altars,  when  he  thought  of  the  people 
who  sat  shivering  before  the  church,  without  clothes,  and  suffer- 
ing hunger,  whom  the  gold  might  help.  On  Lady-day,  before 
three  o'clock  in  the  morning,  there  had  disappeared  from  the 
church,  plates,  rolls,  images  of  saints,  and  other  symbols  of  idola- 
trous worship.  The  Council  brought  up  the  vicar  for  examina- 
tion, who  admitted  his  having  used  the  expressions  above  quoted, 
and  farther,  his  having  said  to  some  citizens  whom  he  overheard 
speaking  in  the  street  of  the  alleged  sacrilege  committed :  "  They 
need  not  trouble  their  heads  so  much  about  it ;  it  was  probable  he 
who  did  it  would  come  forward  and  shew  himself"  Nothing 
else,  however,  being  proved  against  Meyer,  he  was  set  at  liberty. 
By  these  proceedings,  Zwingli  was  necessitated,  however  inop- 
portune he  might  deem  the  moment  to  be,  to  express  his  sentiments 
with  regard  to  images  and  their  worship.  He  blamed  the 
unauthorised  and  irregular  destruction  "which  had  been  made  of 
a  part  of  the  images  as  wholly  unnecessary,  on  the  ground  that 
the  abuse,  after  it  had  been  exposed  and  sifted,  must  needs  have 
been  quietly  removed  liy  the  hand  of  the  civil  power.  "  The 
child  is  not  let  down  from  the  cradle,"  said  he,  with  singular 
delicacy  of  feeling,  "  till  a  stool  has  been  presented  to  it  on  which 
it  may  hold  fast  if  it  cannot  walk  alone.  Nor  ought  we,  with  the 
idols,  to  anticipate  those  who  have  not  yet  been  fully  instructed 
in  the  gospel ;  we  ought  rather  to  wait  till  the  knowledge  of  the 
one  true  God  has  been  fully  brought  home  to  their  hearts.     Our 


IMAGES  AND  THE  MASS.  ]  27 

iconoclasts,  besides,  nndorstand  certain  passages  in  the  Old 
Testament  all  too  literally,  and,  in  truth,  erroneously,  when  they 
teach  that  by  these  all  pictorial  representation,  consequently 
trade-signs,  way-marks,  dials,  and  so  forth,  are  forl:»idden.  He, 
for  his  part,  was  far  from  rejecting  paintings  and  fine  statuary, 
provided  they  were  not  made  to  serve  any  superstitious  ends,  as 
no  one  liked  better  to  see  them  than  himself ;  nay,  he  regarded 
the  arts  of  painting  and  statuary  in  the  light  of  special  gifts  of 
God.*  The  tabernacle,  too,  and  Solomon's  temple,  were  adorned 
with  beautifully  carved  work,  with  palms,  lilies,  and  other 
flowers,  Init  always  with  such  as  neither  induced  nor  incited  to 
adoration.  He  was  therefore  in  favour  of  the  glass-paintings 
remaining  in  the  church-windows,  on  the  gi'ound  that  they,  just 
as  little  as  the  cock  on  the  church  steeple,  or  the  statue  of  Charles 
the  Great  at  the  Minster,  misled  the  people  to  idolatry."  "  On 
the  other  hand,"  said  he,  "  all  images  must  be  removed,  which 
serve  the  purposes  of  a  superstitious  veneration,  because  such 
veneration  is  really  idolatry.  Now  we  see  images  put  up  for 
veneration  in  the  churches,  and  here  and  there  in  the  streets. 
We  see  them  placed,  first  of  all,  before  the  eyes  of  men  on  the 
altar.  AVhy  are  they  allowed  to  stand  there  where  so  high  things 
are  transacted  as  the  papists  say  are  done  in  the  mass  ?  AVill 
they  let  a  man  stand  there  during  the  mass  ?  Not  tliey.  They 
then  hold  these  images  to  be  higher  than  men,  and  yet  they  have 
been  cut  out  of  a  willow-tree  by  the  hands  of  men.  Thus  Isaiah, 
(chap,  xliv.)  justly  rebukes  such  men  who  worshi]j  the  works 
which  their  own  hands  have  fashioned.  Then  one  bows  to  them, 
and  bares  the  head  before  them,  which  God  has  forbidden.  Con- 
sider if  this  be  not  open  idolatry.  Again,  we  expend  great  cost 
in  gold,  silver,  diamonds,  and  pearls  on  them  ;  nay,  some  images 
are  formed  of  massive  gold  and  silver  ;  and,  in  others,  the  vesture 
is  so  full  of  them,  that,  for  that  part,  it  might  stand  upright  if 
this  were  M'anted.  It  is  of  no  use  to  object:  we  present  not  this 
wealth  to  idols,  but  to  honour  the  blessed  saints  who  are  in 
heaven ;  for  if  we  would  do  honour  to  the  saints  with  the  riches 
of  this  world,  we  ought  to  do  it  in  the  way  God  has  commanded 

•  Zwingli,  on  another  occasion,  said,  he  for  liis  part  found  the  less  scandal  in 
the  images,  as  in  consequence  of  his  short-sightedness  he  never  saw  them  in  the 
church. 


128  IMAGES  AND  THE  MASS. 

US,  and  as  tlie  saints  themselves  have  done,  viz.,  by  bestowing  it 
on  the  poor.  Wliat  we  ought  to  give  to  the  poor  destitute  images 
of  God,  we  give  to  the  gold-bedizened  images  of  men,  for  these 
idols  are  but  the  images  of  men,  while  the  living  man  is  the 
image  of  God.  Is  it  not  plain,  then,  that  in  thus  giving  to  these 
idols  against  the  command  of  God,  we  give  what  we  ought  to 
give  to  the  poor  ?  Nor  has  there  been  any  ring,  precious  stone 
or  jewel,  so  costly  and  dear  that  it  repented  an  ambitious  woman 
to  hang  it  on  a  wooden  idol.  And  if  we  had  exhorted  her  to 
give  the  same  to  the  poor,  we  verily  should  not  have  brought  her 
to  it.  And  why  ?  It  makes  no  show  on  the  poor  man,  but  it  makes 
a  show  on  the  idol.  Since,  then,  these  idols  have  been  fashioned 
and  adorned  out  of  a  carnal  ambition,  how  can  we  any  longer 
suffer  them  ?  Are  we  not  fearful  the  curse  will  come  upon  us  ? 
Ps.  xcvii.  7 :  '  Confounded  be  all  they  that  serve  graven  images, 
that  boast  themselves  of  idols.'  We  burn  costly  incense  before 
them  as  the  heathen  did.  Here  we  commit  a  twofold  sin. 
Firstly,  In  that  we  think  the  elect  of  God  are  honoured  by  such 
things  as  the  heathen  honoured  their  idols  with,  when  we  learn 
from  the  Acts,  chap,  xiv.,  that  Paul  and  Barnabas  would  not 
suffer  such  adoration  to  be  paid  to  them,  but  signified  they  were 
sent  by  God  to  turn  men  from  such  folly.  The  ser\^ants  of  God 
are  not  honoured  with  such  fool's  work,  for  they  themselves  never 
honoured  God  hmiself  therewith.  We  sin,  secondly,  in  lajdng 
that  before  an  idol  which  should  be  given  to  the  poor.  Then, 
lastly,  like  the  heathen,  we  call  them  by  the  names  of  those 
whose  images  they  represent.  Thus,  we  name  one  piece  of  carved 
wood  the  mother  of  God,  another  St.  Nicolas,  and  the  third,  the 
Holy  Hildegarde,  and  so  on.  This  were  in  itself  less,  but  we 
hold  this  image  in  such  veneration,  that  if  one  were  to  call  it  an 
idol,  which  it  is,  he  should  be  liable  to  punishment.  Nay,  we 
have  heard  of  those  who  have  broken  into  the  prisons,  and  actually 
slain  those  who  took  away  these  idols.  Wliy  did  they  do  this  ? 
'  Oh !  they  have  burnt  or  stolen  our  blessed  Lord  God  and  the 
saints ! '  Whom  do  they  call  our  Lord  God  ?  The  idol !  So,  then, 
they  had  an  idol  for  a  god.  If  they  had  had  the  Father  in 
heaven  for  their  God,  who  is  invisible  to  human  eyes,  they  had 
very  little  concerned  themselves  about  what  was  done  to  a  mere 
image.     An  old   man  may  remember  the  time  when  not  the 


IMAGES  AND  THE  MASS.  I  ii) 

liundicdth  ])art  i)t'  llic  images  were  in  the  cliurclu's  lluit  are  now 
to  be  found  in  tlieni.  How,  then,  liave  our  forefathers  honoured 
(Jod  ;  or,  rather,  how  have  they  dishonoured  Him  in  not  possess- 
ing so  many  images  as  we  have  ?  Did  it  seem  good  to  them  to 
liave  no  images  or  few  of  them?  then  woe  to  us  who  wouhl 
increase  them.  For  although  it  may  be  said,  adoration  is  not  paid 
to  the  idol  but  to  God  and  the  blessed  saints,  this  avails  not, 
l»ecause  so  far  from  honouring  (Jod  and  the  saints  by  such  a 
species  of  adoration,  superstition  and  idolatry  are  committed  the 
moment  we  set  up  an  image  and  adore  it.  And  these  vain  people 
]>ut  imiocent  Christians  to  death,  who  remove  that  which  turns 
the  soul  away  fr»,)m  God.  Oh  !  is  it  not  evident  from  this  that 
they  are  idolaters?  Since,  then,  real  danger  exists,  that  faith 
will  l)e  diminished  where  images  are  hung  or  set  up  in  the 
temples,  they  being,  as  experience  teaches,  easily  worship])ed  and 
adored,  they  must  be  removed  from  thence,  since  there  is  danger 
of  their  being  adored.  We  mean,  however,  images  alone  that  are 
hurtiid  to  true  piety,  and  which  have  a  tendency  to  diminish  o\ir 
faith  in  God  himself,  such  as  the  images  of  men  placed  on  the 
altars  and  in  the  churches.  The  papists  suppose  they  advance  a 
veiy  weighty  objection,  when  they  say,  images  are  the  books  of 
the  simple.  Tell  me,  however,  where  has  God  commanded  us 
to  learn  out  of  such  a  book  ?  How  comes  it  that  we  have  all 
had  'the  cross'  so  many  years  before  us,  and  yet  have  not  learned 
salvation  in  Christ,  or  true  faith  in  God  ?  Take  a  child  and  i)lace 
it  before  an  image  of  the  Saviour,  and  give  it  no  instruction,  and 
let  us  see  if  it  will  learn  from  the  image  that  Christ  has  suffered 
for  us.  Is  it  said.  Nay  ;  but  it  must  be  taught  also  by  the  "Word  ? 
Then  the  admission  is  made  that  it  must  be  instructed  not  by  the 
image  but  by  the  Word.  I  verily  believe  that  the  whole  of  papal 
Christendom  would  rather  have  their  images  or  idols  than  the 
Word  of  God.  For  when  the  Word  is  presented  it  is  immediately 
seen  as  in  a  glass  that  the  whole  papacy  is  a  lie.  Therefore,  they 
let  the  sufferings  of  Christ  be  sufficiently  well  ])ainted  on  the 
wall,  and  represented  in  statuary,  and  let  poor  fools  hang  silver 
and  gold  thereon,  and  kiss  the  stone  feet,  provided  only  they  do 
not  learn  what  the  sufferings  of  Christ  mean.  For  as  soon  as  we 
have  learned  this  lesson,  that  he  is  our  liedeemer,  our  red('m]>tion- 
price,  and  our  only  way  to  God,  we  no  longer  buy  the  kingdom 

1 


130  IMAGES  AND  THE  MASS. 

of  heaven  from  the  papacy.  It  is  next  objected:  The  images 
incite  to  devotion,  which  is  proved  by  the  following  example — 
a  Christian  man  goes  across  a  field,  and  seeing  the  sufferings  of 
Christ  oftentimes  painted,  he  bows  himself,  bares  his  head,  and 
puts  up  a  prayer.'  Where  has  God  taught  that  we  should  do  Him 
such  honour  through  idols,  and  by  the  performance  of  such 
gestures  before  them  ?  Such  arguments  are  sheer  trifling  ;  God 
everywhere  rejects  such  adoration.  He  says:  '  Wlien  ye  come 
to  appear  before  me,  who  hath  required  this  at  your  hand,  to 
tread  my  courts,'  Isaiah  i.  12.  Mark  well,  here  He  forbids  us 
to  bow  to  idols,  or  to  bare  the  head  to  them;  for  He  rejects  and 
prohibits  honour  being  done  to  idols.  Is  it  rejoined:  '  The  man 
in  the  field  kneels  down — ^with  his  heart  he  says  praise  and 
thanks  to  Him  for  His  holy  sufferings — he  utters  some  prayer, 
which  reminds  him  of  God;  but  if  he  found  no  image  on  the 
way,  he  would  neither  think  of  God  nor  the  saints ;  therefore, 
the  images  are  good  and  not  evil?'  Answer  :  'Know  ye  not,  that 
"  not  every  one  that  saith  unto  me.  Lord,  Lord,  shall  enter  into 
the  kingdom  of  heaven ;  but  he  that  doeth  the  will  of  my  Father 
which  is  in  heaven?"  Matt.  vii.  21.  Perceive  you  not  that  God 
puts  little  value  on  mouth-worship,  and,  on  the  contrary,  the 
liighest  value  on  doing  His  will  ?  But  this  the  images  teach  us 
not,  nor  do  they  incite  us  to  it ;  for  they  have  never  stirred  uj)  to 
anything  but  a  lazy-minded  blind  devotion.  The  true  genuine 
worship  of  God  is  to  bear  Him  ever  in  our  hearts.  Such  a  heart 
is  not  conferred  by  any  external  gazing  at  an  image,  but  alone  by 
the  illuminating  God.'  But  here  some  will  say:  'It  ought  to 
be  taught  that  the  idols  are  not  to  be  held  for  anything,  applied 
to  for  nothing,  ought  not  to  be  held  as  holy,  and,  in  a  word,  all 
erroneous  doctrine  in  respect  to  them  put  away.'  Answer: 
'  Certainly  this  ought  to  be  done,  but  they  themselves  ought  also 
at  the  same  time  to  be  removed.  When  you  cMve  away  the  devil 
you  ought  to  stop  up  all  passages  by  wliich  he  may  again  enter. 
Wliile,  therefore,  the  gospel  is  preached,  and  men  are  instructed 
in  pure  doctrine,  the  idols  ought  to  be  removed,  that  men  may 
not  fall  back  into  the  same  errors ;  for  as  storks  return  to  their 
old  nests,  so  men  to  their  old  errors,  if  the  way  to  them  be  not 
barred.' " 

Upon  such  principles,  Zwingli  declared  that  the  iconoclasts 


SECOND  RELIGIOUS  DISPUTATI(X\.  I  .*>  1 

might  be  punislit'J  for  their  uiiauthorisL'd  and  disorderly  proceed- 
ings, but  not  for  sacrilege.  On  the  otlier  hand,  the  magistracy 
ha\nng  one(^  bound  itself  to  act  in  conformity  "with  the  directory 
of  God's  Word,  must  be  held  as  virtually  under  an  obligation  to 
remove  all  images  of  superstitious  worship  from  the  churches. 

The  abolition  of  the  mass  being  now  desired  by  many  mem- 
bers of  the  community,  instructed  by  Zwingli  that  it  was  no 
sacrifice,  and  tliat  sinful  abuses  were  connected  with  it,  the 
Council  resolved,  in  the  month  of  October  ir)23,  to  institute  a 
second  Religious  Disputation  upon  images  and  the  mass.  In\dta- 
tions  were  sent  to  the  three  Swiss  Bishops  of  Chur,  Constance, 
and  Basle,  and  to  the  governments  of  the  different  cantons,  to 
attend  by  deputies,  and  thus  to  assist  in  bringing  truth  to  light. 
The  Bishop  of  Constance  replied,  he  had  read  the  invitation  with 
no  small  astonishment ;  he  would  neither  appear  himself  nor 
send  deputies,  as  by  so  doing  he  would  make  himself  amenable 
to  his  superiors,  (the  Emperor  and  Pope,)  and  other  Christian 
powers.  As  Ordinariiis  and  Curate  of  souls,  he  begged  and 
exhorted  the  Council,  in  a  friendly  and  paternal  manner,  not  so 
lightly  to  diverge  from  tlie  footsteps  of  their  forefathers,  to  forbear 
the  disputation,  and  to  wait  for  the  decision  of  an  ecclesiastical 
Council  This  would  conduce  most  to  the  good  of  the  Council 
themselves,  and  of  their  subjects.  The  Bishop  of  Basle  excused 
himself  for  non-appearance,  on  the  ground  of  advanced  age. 
Of  the  Confederate  Cantons,  Lucerne  answered  \yith  bitterness : 
"  You  tell  us  that  strife  and  division  are  among  you  about  church 
matters.  We  are  sorry  for  it ;  we  thought  you  had  extirpated 
long  ago  all  these  causes  of  strife,  to  do  which  you  were  fully 
competent.  Had  you  done  this,  we  had  in  that  case  veiy  willingly, 
as  pious  Christians,  lent  you  our  assistaiice."  They  declined 
attending.  The  answer  from  Obwalden  was  rude :  "  We  cannot 
believe  that  our  Lord  God  has  granted  to  Z\\'ingli  more  grace  than 
to  the  blessed  saints  and  teachers,  who  have  sulfered  martyrdom 
and  deatli  for  the  faith.  Nor  do  we  hear  that  he  leads  a  very 
spiritiial  life ;  on  the  contra r\',  we  understand  that  lie  is  more 
bent  on  fomenting  discord  than  promoting  peace  and  good  will. 
Nay,  had  we  him  here  among  us,  and  did  we  discover  what  is 
said  of  him  to  be  true,  we  would  in  verity  give  him  that  which 
would  cause  him  to  cease  from  such  coui*ses."     Deputies  appeared 


1  82  SECOND  EELIGIOUS  DISPUTATION. 

only  in  name  of  tlie  governments  of  St.  Gall  and  S chaff liausen, 
the  latter  having,  as  a  wise  precaution,  selected,  besides  Dr.  Sebas- 
stian  Hofmeister,  two  decided  opponents  of  the  Eeformation. 

The  Conference  began  on  Monday,  the  26tli  October  1523,  in 
the  Town-Hall,  in  presence  of  more  than  nine  hundred  persons. 
Dr.  Vadian  and  Dr.  Christoffel  Schappeler  of  St.  Gall,  and  Dr. 
Sebastian  Hofmeister  of  Schaffhausen,  were  elected  by  the  Burgo- 
master and  Council,  to  be  Presidents  of  the  Conference.  Zwingli 
and  Leo  Jud  were  to  defend  the  propositions  or  theses  proposed. 
Zwingli,  after  the  reading  of  the  mandate,  exhorted  them  all  in 
their  hearts  to  call  upon  God,  (as  in  consequence  of  the  great 
pressure  a  general  kneeling  was  impossible,)  that  He  would  bring 
all  to  the  obedience  of  the  faith,  who  oppose  His  Word,  that  He 
would  enlighten  and  teach  all  who  do  not  understand  it,  that  He 
would  instruct  and  correct  all  who  misunderstand  and  misapply 
it.  He  then  developed  his  view  of  the  Church,  in  order  to  shew 
that  the  present  assembly  was  justified  in  deciding  on  matters  of 
doctrine  and  faith ;  and  he  proved  from  the  Word  of  God  that 
the  Church  is  the  community  of  all  who  believe  on  Christ,  and 
obey  his  Word.  The  present  assembly,  because  it  believes  on 
Christ,  and  recognises  the  Word  of  God  as  supreme  Judge,  was 
a  true  church ;  while,  on  the  other  hand,  assemblies  of  cardinals 
and  bishops  in  Councils,  because  they  pass  resolutions  oj)posed 
to  the  Word  of  God  and  true  faith,  were  no  true  churches  at  all. 
There  appeared  to  combat  this  statement  the  old  canon,  Conrad 
Hofmann,  who,  amongst  other  things,  said  :  "  I  have  been  ten  or 
thirteen  years  at  Heidelberg,  and  have  enjoyed  intercourse  with 
the  most  learned  and  pious  individuals,  especially  with  Dr. 
Jodocus,*  a  very  learned  and  pious  man,  in  whose  house  I  lived, 
and  with  whom  I  often  eat  and  drank,  but  in  all  this  intercourse 
I  heard  but  one  language  spoken,  viz.,  that  in  matters  of  faith  we 
dare  not  dispute.  Yes !  look  at  that ;  it  is  true  what  I  say.  (It 
was  only  with  diiliculty  that  the  Burgomaster  could  repress 
general  laughter  at  the  expense  of  the  aged  Canon.)  Therefore, 
dear  sirs,  I  shall  not  dispute ;  I  shall  be  obedient  to  the  Bishop, 
and  after  Mm  to  the  Provost;  yea,  although  they  were  knaves, 
which  God  forbid."  Hofmann  advancing  no  proof  from  Scrip- 
ture in  defence  of  his  opinion  of  the  absolute  authority  of 
*  Dr.  Jodocus  Gallus  was  Professor  and  Rector  of  the  University  of  Heidelberg. 


SECOND  RELIGIOUS  DISPUTATION.  1 33 

ecclesiastical  superiors,  was  enjoined  to  silence,  and  the  llrst 
proposition  was  taken  up,  which  was  to  the  following  effect : — 

"  The  images  are  forbidden  of  God  in  the  Holy  Scripture. 
Tlierefore,  among  Christians  such  ought  not  to  be  made  nor 
adored,  and  they  ought  to  be  done  away  ^^^th." 

Leo  Jud  proved  this  proposition  by  passages  from  Holy  Scrip- 
ture in  a  clear  and  succinct  manner.  The  principal  opponents  of 
the  Eeforniation  partly  not  being  present,  and  partly  not  being 
in  a  position  to  quote  passages  of  Scripture  in  disproof  of  the  pro- 
position, and  thus  compelled  to  keep  silence,  some  of  their  anta- 
gonists undertook  to  advance  the  most  plausible  objections  against 
the  proposition.  In  this  spirit  spoke  Conrad  Schmidt,  Johanni- 
ter-Comthur,  from  Kuessnacht,  an  intimate  and  beloved  friend 
of  Zwingli,  till  death  :  "  One  should  not  take  the  staff  out  of  the 
hand  of  the  weak  Christian,  on  which  he  leans,  or  one  should 
give  him  another,  else  he  falls  to  the  ground.  Granted  it  be  an 
imstable  reed  on  which  he  leans,  yet  leave  it  rather  in  liis  hand, 
shewing  him  at  the  same  time  a  strong  staff;  he  will  then  of  his 
own  accord  let  the  reed  fall,  and  will  grasp  the  strong  staff. 
Therefore  let  the  images  remain  on  which  the  weak  support 
themselves,  and,  first  of  all,  inculcate  upon  them  that  there  is 
neither  life,  holiness,  nor  grace  in  them.  Let  then  a  strong  staff 
be  presented  to  them,  Jesus  Christ,  the  alone  comforter  and 
helper  of  the  afflicted,  and  they  will  immediately  find  they  no 
longer  require  the  images ;  they  will  let  them  go,  and  lay  hold 
upon  Cluist.  Him  who  has  the  tnie  image  of  Christ  in  his  heart 
the  external  image  can  no  longer  hurt  even  although  he  cling  to 
it.  Paul,  too,  with  the  Athenians  let  image  be  image,  that  is,  he 
let  the  images  stand,  oidy  he  taught  there  is  no  grace  or  Divine 
power  in  thenL"  Zwingli  replied  :  "  When  my  esteemed  brother, 
the  Conitluu',  maintains,  that  we  should,  first  of  all,  instnict  the 
world  in  the  Word  of  God,  and  zealously  preach  it,  I  perfectly 
agree  with  liim  that  tliis  ought  earnestly  to  be  done.  I  hope,  too, 
that  with  my  brother,  Leo  Jud,  I  have  faithfidly  done  this,  and 
spared  nothing ;  (Schmidt  here  obsei-ved  he  did  not  make  his 
observations  to  reprehend  ^Ligister  Zwingli ;)  but  as  to  your 
opinion,"  continued  Zwingli,  "  that  the  images  are  staffs  and  sup- 
ports for  the  weak,  God  forbid  that  it  should  be  so.  ILid  useless 
parsons  and  bishops  zealously  preached  ihc  Wmd  of  God,  as  has 


134  SECOND  EELIGIOUS  DISPUTATION. 

been  inculcated  upon  them,  instead  of  busying  themselves  with 
useless  trumpery  and  mummery,  it  were  not  come  to  this,  that 
the  poor  ignorant  people  unacquainted  with  the  Word  must  learn 
Christ  only  through  paintings  on  the  wall,  or  wooden  figures. 
Since,  however,  God  has  forbidden  images  in  His  Word,  they  are 
not  to  be  suffered ;  but  that  Paul  allowed  the  idols  to  remain  by 
the  Athenians  was  quite  right ;  for  they  were  not  yet  Christians. 
Had  they  been  Christians,  he  would  not  have  suffered  them  to 
remain.  Why  should  I,  with  heatliens,  overturn  their  images  ? 
As  for  offence-giving,  there  are  two  offences.  Some  are  offended, 
not  because  they  are  sick  and  weak  in  the  faith,  but  from  impiety, 
and  because  they  believe  not  at  all.  This,  however,  is  not  weak- 
ness (infirmitas,)  but  wickedness  (malignitas.)  Others  are  really 
weak  in  the  faith,  whom  we  must  spare,  until  they  are  so  strength- 
ened that  they  no  longer  take  offence.  But  that  this  indulgence 
has  its  limit  the  example  of  Paul  teaches  us,  who  circumcised 
Timothy,  but  would  not  let  Titus  be  circumcised.  AMiy?  It  was 
time  that  the  taking  of  offence  should  cease  and  have  an  end. 
But  if  we  are  not  to  remove  the  outward  idols  till  the  inward 
idols  of  bad  desires  and  passions  are  completely  extirpated,  the 
former  w^ould  never  come  to  be  abolished  at  all,  for  we  shall  never 
be  delivered  from  sinful  desires  and  passions.  If  we  were  only 
then  to  commence  an  imdertaking  when  offence  shall  have  ceased, 
a  good  Christian  work  would  never  come  to  birth  at  all."*  The 
Comthur  declared  he  entirely  agreed  with  Zwingli.  The  objec- 
tions that  were  taken  by  the  papists,  partly  that  challenges  by 
name  had  not  been  given,  were  of  so  frivolous  a  nature  that,  as 
BuUinger  rightly  observes,  they  are  not  worthy  of  being  recorded. 
Amongst  other  things,  an  individual  remarked,  "  I  have  hitherto 
believed  the  old  doctors,  I  shaU  now  believe  the  new."  "  Not 
us,"  said  Zwingli,  with  great  indignation,  "  but  the  Word  of  God 

*  I  have  given  this  speecli  and  defence  at  greater  length,  because  tliey  have 
been  in  many  quarters  misunderstood,  and  have  given  occasion  to  mistaken  com- 
ments. Zwingli  and  Comthur  were  agreed  in  the  main  point,  which  was,  that 
the  images  ought  to  be  abolished.  They  also  agreed  that  this  abolition  should 
take  place  with  the  imparting  of  instruction,  and  the  greatest  possible  sparing  of 
the  weak;  while,  on  the  other  hand,  toleration  was  not  to  be  carried  so  far  as  to 
favour  the  sin  of  image-worship.  From  this  standing-point,  Comthur  combats  the 
one  extreme,  the  violent  removal  or  destruction  of  the  images ;  Zwingli  the  other, 
their  too  long  remaining  in  deference  to  the  prejudices  of  the  weak,  but  to  the 
compromise  or  damage  of  truth. 


SECOND  RELIGIOUS  DISPUTATION.  ]  35 

ought  ye  to  believe  ;  it  alone  cannot  deceive."  Dr.  Sebastian 
Hotineister,  as  president,  concluded  the  proceedings  with  the 
words:  "The  Almighty  and  Everlasting  God  be  praised,  that 
He  rules  in  us,  through  His  Holy  Word,  whose  servants  and 
instruments  the  holy  l*aul  and  the  other  apostles  were,  and  by 
Ciod's  gi'ace  we  also  are.  Having  now  found,  from  the  Word  of 
God,  as  has  been  most  convincingly  proved,  that  images  and 
all  objects  of  -worship  dare  not  be  suffered  among  a  Christian 
people,  ye  ought  now,  my  gracious  lords,  to  have  no  longer 
scmples  in  removing  them."  In  this  manner,  the  Disputation 
on  Images  on  the  first  day  closed.  "  Child's  play,"  said  Zwin- 
gli,  "  this  has  been  ;  now  comes  a  weightier  and  more  important 
matter." 

On  Tuesday,  the  27th  October,  the  Disputation  on  the  INIass 
took  place.  After  the  burgomaster  had  opened  the  sitting,  Zwin- 
gli  arose  and  said :  "  In  the  name  of  God,  Amen.  Ye  elect 
brethren  in  Christ,  ye  have  seen  what  a  glorious  victory  the  pure 
Word  of  God  obtained  yesterday  in  respect  of  the  images.  Now 
in  reference  to  the  Mass  let  every  one,  in  the  fii'st  place,  know 
that  the  labours  of  myself  and  my  esteemed  brethren,  Leo  and 
Dr.  Engelhard,  have  not  the  object  in  view  to  depreciate  the 
Holy  Supper  of  the  body  and  blood  of  Christ,  but  to  shew 
that  it  is  no  sacrifice  which  one  man  can  offer  up  for  another, 
just  as  little  as  one  man  can  eat  or  drink  for  another.  The 
president,  Dr.  Vadian,  then  called  upon  the  prelates  and  abbots, 
and  then  in  order  all  the  parsons  j^resent,  to  state  their  objec- 
tions. The  greater  number  expressed  their  agreement  with  the 
views  already  propounded,  others  brought  forward  some  very 
weak  and  silly  arguments,  which  were  immediately  refuted.  The 
Comthur  Schmidt  delivered  a  pretty  long  speech,  in  which  he 
expressed  his  full  concurrence  with  ZwingU.  In  reference  to  the 
iconoclasts,*  he  said  :  "  One  ought,  however,  in  speaking  of  the 
Mass,  so  to  speak  of  it  as  not  to  offend  any  one,  but  to  improve 
the  people.  It  a])pears  to  me  a  hard  thing  what  some  say, 
namely,  that  the  Ma.ss  comes  from  the  devil,  and  that  the  devil 
has  invented  monks  and  the  religious  orders."  Zwingli  felt  him- 
self compelled  by  these  remarks  to  speak,  although  the  Comthur 

*  Goehel  and  Manz,  who  wouM  carry  tluoiigh  their  cMravapant  anrl  fanatical 
views. 


1  3(j  SECOND  RELIGIOUS  DISPUTATION. 

had  iKjt  him  at  all  in  view  in  his  remarks,  but  Zwingli  feared 
they  might  be  applied  to  himself.  "  What  my  dear  brother 
has  just  said  in  reference  to  the  monks,"  said  he,  "had  better,  as 
not  belonging  to  the  matter  in  hand,  have  been  let  alone.  As, 
however,  I  have  expressed  myself  in  the  manner  described  more 
than  once  from  the  pulpit,  I  must  here  answer  for  it.  That  which 
God  has  not  taught,  and  which  only  comes  from  man,  must  ever 
be  regarded  as  had  in  religion.  Now  I  have  taught  that  all  good 
comes  from  God,  and  all  evil  from  the  devil.  Monkery  is  a 
device  of  the  flesh  and  of  selfishness  ;  it  is  accordingly  directly 
opposed  to  God,  and  conies  necessarily  from  the  devil.  I  cer- 
tainly cannot  approve  of  persons  be  it  in  the  country  or  the  town 
speaking  either  of  the  mass  or  the  monks  in  unbecoming  terms, 
and  have  at  all  times  censured  such  language. .  My  desire  has  ever 
been,  that  all  priests  would  bestir  themselves  to  preach  solely 
Christ ;  that  would  in  time  extirpate  all  sects  and  orders,  and 
every  other  abuse.  Many,  however,  retain  nothing  more  of  my 
sermons  but  the  sharp  and  stinging  words.  It  fares  the  same 
with  that  eminent  and  learned  man,  Martin  Luther.  Many  will 
learn  nothing  more  from  his  books  but  the  hard  expressions* 
which  out  of  -gnve  burning  love  he  throws  out.  But  his  true  and 
pious  heart,  which  beats  ever  for  Divine  truth,  for  the  Word  of 
God,  no  one  will  imitate.  I  confess  that  in  the  pulpit  I  have 
sometimes  made  use  of  strong  language  ;  but  out  of  the  pulpit,  I 
have  never,  from  a  selfish  motive,  said  a  harsh  word  to  any  one. 
You  know  how  much  I  have  yielded  hitherto  and  designedly,  in 
the  question  of  the  intercession  of  the  saints,  saying,  as  I  was 
wont  to  do  at  all  times  :  "  Lay  your  case  in  petition  before  whom 
ye  will,  as  for  me  I  will  pour  out  my  complaint  to  God;  my 
prayer  is  certain,  yours  uncertain."  Now,  indeed,  that  I  have 
set  the  words  of  Scripture  against  prayer  to  the  saints,  I  can  no 
longer  use  such  language.  Thus  I  have,  after  the  exhortation  of 
Paul,  (2  Tim.  iv.,)  in  season  and  out  of  season,  with  gentle  and 
with  sharp  words,  taught  and  exhorted.  I  wish  from  the  bottom 
of  my  heart  that  each  would  bestir  himself  7iot  to  pull  down  hut 
to  build  up,  that  each  would  unceasingly  preach  the  Word  of  God, 

*  This  uiiCoitunately  is  still  true;  as   an   illiistnition,  take  the  demeanour  and 
language  of  the  New-Lutherans. 


SECOND  EELIUIOUS  DISPUTATION.  137 

and  so  preach  it  as  the  Spirit  teaches."  With  the  expression  of 
these  sentiments  the  Conitliur  expressed  his  full  concurrence. 

The  clergy  from  a  distance  who  had  come  to  the  Conference 
were  also  called  upon  to  deliver  their  opinions.  Parson  Martin 
Steinli,  of  Schatlhauscn,  sought,  through  the  medium  of  some 
misapprehended  and  misajiplied  passages  of  Scripture,  especially 
out  of  the  Old  Testament,  to  prove  that  the  Mass  is  a  sacrifice, 
and  concluded  in  the  words  :  "  If  the  Mass  is  no  sacrifice,  then 
have  all  our  fathers  walked  in  error  and  been  damned."  Zwingli 
made  it  plain  that  he  had  falsely  understood  and  misapplied  the 
passages  of  Scripture  on  which  he  founded.  "  We  must  not," 
said  he,  "take  the  passages  of  Scripture  which  appear  to  be 
favourable  to  us  out  of  their  natural  connection.  It  is  necessary 
to  keep  that  which  goes  before  and  comes  after  well  in  view.  In 
regard  to  the  last  assertion  which  Steinli  made,  it  is  the  lanjiuajje 
of  the  impious,  and  all  God's  enemies.  If  our  forefathers  have 
erred,  what  then  ?  Is  not  their  salvation  in  the  hands  of  God  as 
that  of  all  men  who  likewise  sin  and  err  ?  Who  authorises  us  to 
anticipate  the  judgment  of  God?  The  authors  of  these  abuses 
will,  without  doubt,  be  punished  by  God;  but  who  is  dimmed, 
and  who  not,  is  the  prerogative  of  God  alone  to  decide.  Let  us 
not  interfere  with  the  judgments  of  God.  It  is  sufficiently  clear 
to  us  that  they  have  erred."  Some  frivolous  objections  were  now 
made,  which  Zwingli  and  his  friends  answered.  More  trouble 
and  annoyance  was  given  by  some  friends  of  the  Eeformation 
itself,  who  threw  themselves  M'ith  a  wild  and  fanatical  zeal  u})on 
"  externalities."  These,  by  calling  fierce  passions  into  play,  sought 
to  disturb  the  clear  stream  of  the  Reformation,  and  to  turn  it  aside 
from  its  onward  and  majestic  course.  We  shall  have  aftenvards 
to  consider  more  closely  these  wild  and  rank  ollshoots  of  the 
Refonnation  under  the  Anabaptists. 

Of  the  calm  and  solemn  tone  of  mind  which  pervaded  the 
evangehcal  party  the  closing  words  of  Comthur  Schmidt  and 
Zwingli  give  evidence.  Tlie  fomier  turned  to  the  Burgomaster 
and  Council  with  the  words  :  "Since  the  ecclesiastical  authority 
will  not  lend  its  aid  to  the  gi'and  object  of  bringing  Christian 
doctrine  before  the  people  in  an  unadulterated  form,  and  since  it 
will  not  give  a  helping  hand  to  the  truth,  it  now  rests  on  the  civil 
power  to  do  this.      For  money's  sake,  Sirs,  ye  have  often  heljud 


138  SECOND  KELIGIOUS  DISPUTATION. 

a  worldly  man  to  land  and  men.  For  God's  sake  now  help  our 
Lord  Christ  again  to  His  sovereignty,  that  He  alone  may  be  wor- 
shipped, honoured,  and  invoked  within  the  bounds  of  your  terri- 
tories, as  our  only  Mediator,  Eedeemer,  and  Helper,  in  the  time 
of  need.  Take  up  the  matter  in  a  bold  and  Christian  spirit.  This 
is  the  true  honour  of  the  saints,  that  we  let  Christ  be  King  above 
them,  and  above  all  that  is  in  heaven  and  in  earth.  Many  com- 
plain we  would  put  away  the  saints  altogether  and  make  them 
nothing.  I  much  more  complain  that  Jesus  Christ  is  denied; 
that  He  no  more  avails  for  that  for  which  He  was  given  to  us  by 
the  Father;  that  He  hath  died  in  vain;  that  the  saints,  against 
their  will,  and  against  the  Word  of  God,  are  raised  above  Him ; 
that  God's  honour  is  taken  from  Him  and  given  to  the  saints. 
Let  Christ  be  alone  Lord  and  Master  over  all ;  if  He  were  allowed 
to  reign  in  peace  and  accomplish  His  work,  then  should  we  have 
on  earth  brotherly  love,  Christian  unity,  God's  favour  and  grace, 
and  in  the  world  to  come  life  everlasting."  On  Schmidt's  finish- 
ing this  speech,  the  President,  Dr.  Sebastian  Hofmeister,  called 
out,  "  Blessed  be  the  words  that  thy  mouth  hath  spoken."  Zwin- 
gli  was  deeply  affected,  and  began  next  to  speak,  addressing  his 
words  to  the  Council  and  citizens  of  Zurich  :  "  I  would  strongly 
impress  upon  you  that  ye  would  allow  God  to  rale  in  the  things 
which  His  Spirit  teaches  and  enjoins.  For  it  is  but  just  that 
Christians  should  closely  follow  that  which  God,  their  only  Con- 
solation, and  only  Saviour,  teaches.  Let  not  yourselves  be  dis- 
mayed, gracious  Sirs.  God  stands  by  our  side.  He  will  protect 
His  own  cause.  I  conceive  that  you  will  encounter  much  oppo- 
sition. Give  it  no  heed  for  the  sake  of  the  pure  Word  of  God. 
Now,  in  God's  name,  we  will  commit  all  to  the  Lord ;  He  will 
not  leave  us  in  our  extremity.  I  have,  indeed,  heard  that  last 
night  people  have  been  running  about  and  saying,  we  intend  to 
make  the  Supper  of  the  Lord  a  drinking  revel.  But  that  no  man 
means  to  do."  Here  he  was  so  overcome  that  for  sobs  he  was 
unable  to  speak.  Leo  Jud  fell  in;  "I  will,  so  help  me  God, 
remain  immovably  by  His  Word,  and  give  my  life  for  it.  Ye, 
my  lords  of  Zurich,  ought,  as  becomes  Christians,  to  stand  firm 
by  the  doctrine  of  God,  and  take  it  under  your  protection,  and 
procure  that  it  be  faitlifully  preached  to  all  the  subjects  of  your 
government.     If  ye  do  this  ye  will  be  the  elect  of  God,  and  His 


SECOND  RELIGIOUS  DISPUTATION.  1  39 

help  will  not  fail  you."  Finally,  the  grey-headed  Burgomaster 
Eoist  said,  after  thanking  the  presidents  for  their  mode  of  con- 
ducting the  business  :  "  Ye,  my  lords  of  Zurich,  ought  to  take  up 
the  Word  of  God  boldly,  in  a  manly  spirit,  and  without  any  fear. 
God  the  Almighty  will  prosper  you  therein.  I  cannot  speak  of 
the  matters  that  have  come  under  review  ;  if  I  were  to  speak  of 
them  it  would  be  as  a  blind  man  of  colours ;  however,  what  we  have 
to  do  is  plain — uprightly  to  take  the  Word  of  God  as  our  guide. 
Pray  all  of  ye  that  it  may  be  well  with  us."  These  simple  straight- 
forward words  of  the  hoary -headed  warrior,  whose  voice  had  rung 
high  above  the  storm  of  many  a  battle,  animating  his  countrymen  to 
deeds  of  valour  and  renown,  made  a  deep  impression  on  the  assembly. 

In  the  course  of  the  proceedings  the  Council  had  been  often 
recommended  to  pardon  the  shoemaker,  Hottinger,  and  his  accom- 
plices in  the  affair  of  the  abduction  of  the  cnicifix,  since  he  and 
his  companions  had  not  acted  against  the  truth,  but  only  without 
due  consideration  in  the  matter.  Soon  after  the  Disputation  tliis 
aliair  was  brought  before  the  Council,  who  resolved,  principally 
at  the  instigation  of  tlie  stranger  delegates,  to  set  them  all  at 
liberty  with  an  admonition.  Nicolas  Hottinger,  as  the  ringleader 
in  tliis  illegal  and  unauthorised  business,  was  banished  for  the 
.'jpace  of  two  years  from  the  town  and  canton. 

Through  the  Religious  Conference,  and  by  other  channels,  as 
Bidlinger  mentions,  it  came  to  be  known  that  the  great  majority 
of  country  clerg}-men  knew  nothing  of  the  Word  of  God  at  all, 
although  they  maintained  that  they  preached  it.  To  put  an  end 
to  this  state  of  things,  Z^^'ingli  received  the  commission  to  bring 
together,  in  a  concise  and  condensed  form,  the  chief  points  of 
Christian  doctrine  in  a  small  work,  to  be  sent  to  all  the  parsons 
for  their  instruction.  In  a  few  days  the  lleformer  had  finished 
this  "  Christian  Introduction,"  in  which  he  explained  what  sin 
was,  what  the  law,  what  the  gospel,  in  how  far  the  law  had  been 
abrogated  by  the  gospel,  and  how  the  case  stood  in  respect  oithe 
images  and  the  mass.  In  this  writing  he  made  an  exposure  of 
the  frightful  abuses  which  arose  out  of  the  erroneous  view  that 
the  mass  is  a  sacrifice.  "  Firstly,  this  false  opinion  has  begot 
and  nourished  every  vice.  For  robbers,  usurers,  traitors,  nnir- 
derers,  adulterers  have  thought,  if  mass  was  once  read  for  their 
sins,  it  was  all  right  ^vith  them.     And  resting  on  this,  they  have 


140  ITS  CONSEQUENCES. 

sinned  shamelessly  and  enormously.  This  is  well  seen  in  the  bene- 
fices, foundations,  and  mass-sales.  If  the  mass  had  not  been  their 
lazy,  last  resource,  they  had  kept  their  property  in  their  own 
hands,  which  they  loved  so  well.  The  second  iniquity  consists 
in  this,  that  through  the  mass  so  much  of  this  earth's  goods  has 
been  amassed  and  taken  for  the  pretended  sacrifice.  And  even 
had  the  mass  been  a  sacrifice,  yet  it  was  horrible  to  take  money, 
wages,  this  world's  chattels  for  it.  But  this  was  not  enough; 
the  wealth  thus  amassed  was  used  at  will,  was  stolen  from  the 
poor  in  cases  where  it  belonged  to  them,  for  under  this  pretext 
of  saying  mass  the  greatest  part  of  alms  has  been  rapaciously 
seized.  Oppressions  of  all  kinds  have  been  practised  through  it." 
The  Council  accompanied  the  transmission  of  this  little  work  to 
the  country  clergymen  with  a  mandate,  in  which  they  say :  "  It 
is  our  will  and  pleasure  that  your  doctrine  be  in  unison  with  the 
gospel,  which  is  to  be  preached  every^vhere  and  with  one  accord. 
If,  however,  there  be  any  amongst  you  neglectful  or  contrarious, 
and  acting  in  a  manner  opposed  to  the  law  of  the  divine  Scrip- 
tures, we  shall  take  such  measures  against  these  individuals  that 
they  shall  be  made  to  know  how  wrong  it  is  to  act  against  the 
doctrine  of  Christ  at  the  same  time.  We  beg  of  each  and 
all  of  you,  if  so  be  that  in  any  respect  we  be  found  to  have  erred 
against  God  and  His  Word,  that  this,  for  the  honour  of  God,  for 
the  sake  of  truth  and  Christian  love,  be  shewn  to  us  out  of  the 
Word  of  God  and  His  Gospel.  Such  notification  shall  have  our 
best  thanks."  The  same  request  was  made  to  the  Bishops  of 
Constance,  Chur,  and  Basle,  and  the  university  there,  as  well  as 
to  the  governments  of  the  Confederate  cantons,  to  whom  also 
copies  of  the  work  of  Zwingli  were  sent.  A  decree  was  then 
passed,  to  the  effect  that  approved  preachers,  as  Zwingli,  the 
Comthur  Schmidt,  and  the  Abbot  Jones  of  Kappel,  should  deliver 
sermons  in  the  different  churches  and  districts  of  the  canton  where 
it  might  appear  to  them  necessary,  in  order  to  effect  an  opening 
to  the  work  of  the  Eeformation. 

An  immediate  consequence  of  the  Disputation  was,  that  some 
chaplains  and  assistants  in  the  town  refused  any  more  to  read 
mass.  On  the  other  hand,  there  were  priests  and  canons  who 
gave  it  very  plainly  to  be  understood  that  they  would  keep  to 
the  mass  as  long  as  it  was  not  abolished  by  law.     The  provost 


ITS  CONSEQUENCES.  1  H 

and  clmptt'i'  brouj^lit  tliis  matter  Ix'ibre  the  Council,  who  a])]"toiiit('(l 
the  three  town  clergynieii,  Zwiugli,  T.eo  Jiid,  and  Dr.  Engelliard,  to 
draw  up  au  opinion  of  what  ought  to  be  undertaken  in  reference  to 
the  mass.  In  this  document,  which  was  delivered  at  the  com- 
mencement of  December  1523,  they  say,  among  other  things :  "  AVe 
propose,  on  Christmas- day,  1523,  to  administei-  this  sacrament, 
(of  the  Lord's  Supper,)  simply,  according  to  the  institution  of 
Christ ;  for  it  is  not  our  wish  longer  to  deprive  our  people  of  the 
right  administration  of  this  sacrament.  And  if  permission  be 
not  granted  to  dispense  the  whole  ordinance,  yet  still  we  must 
give  the  bread  and  wine,  the  body  and  blood  of  the  Lord,  to  such 
as  desire  it,  or  else  appear  before  them  as  liars,  and  false  to  the 
AVord  of  God.  As,  however,  the  soul  of  man  is  daily  attacked 
by  sin,  there  is  a  necessity  that  it  should  be  daily  strengthened 
by  the  "Word  of  God.  We  therefore  propose  that  every  day,  at 
a  con^■enient  time  of  the  day,  there  be  preaching  for  a  quarter  or 
halt'  an  hour  on  a  part  of  Holy  Scripture,  and  thereafter,  upon 
desire  expressed,  that  the  elements  of  bread  and  wine  be  given  to 
the  people,  according  to  the  directory  of  God's  Word."  Hereon  the 
Council,  on  the  19th  of  December,  caused  the  provost  to  announce 
at  the  Great  ^Minster: — "  (1.)  The  priests  of  the  town  shall  appear 
on  Childermas-day  before  the  Little  and  Great  Councils,  in  the 
town-hall,  and  then  and  there  hear  my  lord's  pleasure  upon  the 
matter  of  the  Images  and  ]\Iass.  "Wliocver  has  anything  to 
object  to  the  principles  laid  down  and  established  l\y  Holy  Scrip- 
ture at  the  late  lieligious  Conference,  may  state  such  objec- 
tions, with  due  proof  advanced  from  Holy  Scripture.  (2.)  The 
images  in  the  church  shall  in  the  meantime  be  covered  and  veiled, 
(as  else  was  customaiy  only  at  Fast-time,)  and  shall  not  be 
exposed  till  forther  resolution  be  taken.  (3.)  The  silver,  gilt, 
and  other\N'ise  decorated  images  shall  neither  be  carried  on  holy 
days,  nor  at  other  times;  but  the  highest  treasure,  the  Word  of 
God,  shall,  instead  of  the  worship  of  idols,  be  implanted  in  the 
hearts  of  men." 

On  the  a]ipointed  Childerma.s-day,  Conrad  ITofmann,  with 
four  other  priests,  declared  they  recogiiized  prayer  to  the  saints, 
the  images,  and  the  mass  to  be  right.  Ilofmann  added :  "  If  I 
have  en-ed  in  the  above  articles  of  faith,  I  am  willing  to  be  jiut 
right  l)y  learned  men,  but  not  by  such  as  are  contaminated  1)y 


142  ITS  CONSEQUENCES. 

heretical  doctrines."  The  Council  hereon  resolved  that  a  farther 
opportunity  should  be  granted  to  him  and  his  co-religionists  to 
defend  their  opinions  before  a  commission  of  six  men  of  learning, 
and  six  members  of  the  Council  opposed  to  the  three  town  clergy- 
men. In  the  meantime,  (according  to  a  resolution  of  the  Council, 
of  date  the  Sunday  before  Thomas'-day,  1523,)  no  change  was  to 
be  made  till  Pentecost  in  respect  of  the  sacrament.  By  a  resolu- 
tion of  the  same  meeting,  ecclesiastics  and  citizens  were  exhorted 
to  peace,  and  forbearance  from  mutual  recrimination.  The  three 
Bishops  and  the  University  of  Basle  were  earnestly  requested  to 
send  in  theu*  opinions  upon  "  The  Christian  Introduction,"  which 
had  been  sent  to  them.  The  Disputation  of  the  25th  January 
1524  fell  out  for  Hofman  and  his  party  as  unfavourably  as  the 
former  one.  The  Council,  upon  receiving  the  report  of  their  com- 
mittee, found  and  declared:  "  That  Hofmann  and  his  party  shall 
for  the  future  neither  speak  nor  act  against  the  superior  man- 
date ;  if  they  do  so,  they  shall  be  dismissed  the  town,  and 
deprived  of  their  benefices.  In  other  respects  they  may  hold 
their  own  opinions." 

The  other  cantons  of  the  Confederacy  sent  a  special  embassy 
to  Zurich,  which  appeared  before  the  Council  on  the  21st  March, 
to  exhort  them  earnestly  to  abstain  from  the  proposed  innova- 
tions. The  Council  promised  to  give  an  answer  in  writing.  In 
this  answer  they  made  the  following  explicit  declaration :  "  We 
shall,  dear  Confederates,  faitlifully  obsei've  the  league  with  you. 
But  in  what  concerns  the  Word  of  God,  the  salvation  of  our  souls, 
and  the  peace  of  our  consciences,  here  we  cannot  yield  an  inch. 
We  repeat  the  prayer  we  made  to  you,  not  only  as  our  Con- 
federates, but  as  members  of  the  same  family  and  brethren  in 
Christ,  that  you  would,  (for  which  we  have  prayed  the  Bishops 
of  Constance,  Chur,  and  Basle,  as  well  as  the  university  in  the 
last  named  place,)  send  to  us  by  Pentecost  a  deputation  of  your 
pastors  or  other  learned  men,  to  tell  us,  and  prove  to  us  by  the 
Word  of  God,  in  what  respect  we  have  not  acted  according  to 
that  AVord,  and  have  not  held  ourselves  to  true  evangelical  doc- 
trine. And  in  all  that  shall  be  shewn  and  proved  to  us  and  our 
preachers,  we  shall  alway  submit  ourselves,  in  so  far  as  it  is 
according  to  the  will  and  true  doctrine  of  God."  In  the  mean- 
while, Pentecost   approached,  the   period   fixed  for  a  decision. 


ITS  CONSEQUENCES.  1 43 

The  Council  named  a  second  time  a  larger  commission,  who  were 
to  deliver  an  opinion  as  to  how  the  mngistracy  were  to  proceed, 
and  ]iow  the  matter  was  to  be  arranged.     After  a  full  proof  that 
the  mass  is  no  sacrifice,  but  the  Supper  of  the  Lord  disfigured 
and  defaced,  it  was  proposed  to  introduce,  according  to  its  ori- 
ginal institution,  tlie  Supper  of  the  Lord,  and  at  once  to  abolish 
the  mass.     Zwingli  was  for  permitting  the  mass  for  a  time  to 
remain,  along  with  the  Supper,  for  such  as  desired  the  fonner. 
It  was  proposed  to  dispense  the  Supper  on  Sundays  and  holidays, 
after  sermon,  to  all  who  desired  it,  and,  in  the  place  of  early  mass, 
to  hold  a  daily  sermon ;  to  remove  the  images  in  a  manner  the 
most  expedient  where  the  people  had  been  instnicted  and  eidight- 
cned  with  regard  to  them.     This  proposition*  gave  gi'eat  satis- 
faction to  the  magistracy;  that  part  of  it  in  reference  to  the 
images  was  at  once  adopted,  and  ordered  to  be  carried  into  effect. 
It  was  resolved,  however,  in  regard  to  the  mass,  to  let  it  con- 
tinue on  its  old  foot  until  the  hostility  in  reference  to  the  images 
had  generally,  and  especially  among  the  uninformed  or  preju- 
diced Confederates,  evaporated.    The  processions,  the  solemnity  of 
Corpus-Christi  day,  the  blessing  of  the  palms,  with  the  palm-ass, 
the  consecration  of  water  and  salt,  and  other  superstitious  obser- 
vances, such  as  the  ringing  of  bells  during  a  tempest,  &c.  were 
set  aside,  and  order  was  taken  that  the  bones  of  the  dead  in  the 
bone-houses,  as  well  as  those  preserved  and  adored  as  relics, 
should  be  decently  buried. 

On  the  20th  June  1524,  twelve  councillors  and  the  three 
town  parsons,  with  the  town  architect,  smiths,  lock-smiths, 
joiners  and  masons  proceeded  to  the  different  churches,  locked 
the  doors  from  the  inside,  took  down  the  crosses,  removed  the 
images, — re-staining  the  walls.  "  The  superstitious,"  says  Bullin- 
ger,  "wept  over  such  j)rofanity;-|-  true  believers  regarded  it  as  a 
joyous  act  of  worship  done  to  God."     The  images  were  likewise 

*  This  proposal,  or  properly,  this  opinion,  from  the  circumstance  of  its  being 
cast  in  the  form  in  wliich  the  mafristracy  were  to  issue  it,  has  been  taken  for,  anj 
published  as,  an  Act  of  the  Council,  or  as  a  Reformation  Mandate.  It  remained 
but  an  opinion,  which,  in  the  meantime,  was  only  carried  into  efl'cit  in  respect 
of  the  images. 

t  Superstitious  persons  hoped  that  "the  images"  would,  of  their  own  accord, 
return  to  their  vacant  places,  and  thus  astonishingly  prove  their  miraculous 
power.     As  the  images  did  not  do  this,  many  were  cured  of  their  superstition. 


144  ITS  CONSEQUENCES. 

removed  from  tlie  country  churches  without  farther  noise  and 
disturbance,  and  in  various  places  burnt,  "to  the  honour  and 
glory  of  God,"  the  ornaments  being  everywhere  preserved,  and 
applied  to  the  benefit  of  the  poor,  the  images  of  God. 

In  the  course  of  the  summer,  the  Bishop  of  Constance  sent,  as 
answer  to  "The  Christian  Introduction,"  a  "Christian  Instruction 
in  regard  to  Images  and  the  Mass,"  to  the  Council  of  Zurich,  with 
an  exhortation  to  them  to  act  in  the  spirit  of  it,  and  to  abstain 
from  all  innovations.  Zwingii,  in  name  of  the  Council,  undertook 
to  answer  this  very  superficial  production,  which  he  did  shortly 
and  conclusively  in  "A  Christian  Answer  of  the  Burgomaster  and 
Council  of  Zurich."  He  closes :  "  We  thank  your  Grace  for  your 
work,  wdiich  since  it  has  so  little  foundation  in  the  Word  of  God, 
your  Grace  might  have  spared;  for  in  truth,  had  we  had  any 
disposition  to  listen  to  human  teaching  contrary  to  God's  AVord, 
such  was  abundantly  at  hand  without  your  writing.  We  are, 
however,  firmly  resolved,  with  God's  help,  to  follow  closely  and 
perse veriugiy  the  clear  Word  of  God,  and  to  pull  down  all  that 
has  been  put  up  in  defiance  of  it,  not  as  though  we  would  do  this 
by  our  own  power,  but  in  the  strength  and  counsel  of  God.  We 
place  our  trust  in  Him  that  He  will  accomplish  that  which  He 
has  begun,  to  the  praise  and  the  glory  of  His  name.  To  Him  be 
gloiy  and  praise  for  ever.     Amen." 

In  the  meantime,  the  Diet  of  the  Confederacy,  instigated  by 
the  papal  Deputy  and  the  Bishop  of  Constance,  resolved  to 
suppress  the  Eeformation  by  force  of  arms.  The  unfortunate 
Itinger  affair  (see  section  6)  seemed  to  offer  a  pretext  for  carry- 
ing this  resolution  into  effect.  The  Council  of  Zurich,  under 
these  circumstances,  deemed  it  expedient  to  request  an  expression 
of  opinion  from  the  Christian  people  of  the  Canton,  in  reference 
to  the  work  of  the  Eeformation,  the  more  so,  since  the  Council,  in 
the  affairs  of  religion,  confessedly  acted  only  as  the  representative 
of  the  Christian  community,  which,  according  to  the  views  pro- 
pounded by  Zwingii,  is  composed  of  all  the  faithful.  A  plain  and 
lucid  statement  was  made  to  tlie  people  of  all  that  had  been  done 
in  conformity  with  God's  Word,  and  the  threatening  character  of 
the  present  relations  were  not  concealed  from  them.  "  Our 
Confederates  have  sent  messengers  with  complaints  to  us.  From 
these  we  learn  that  in  Lucerne  they  have  pledged  their  word  to 


ITS  CONSEQUENCES.  1  4-.5 

suppress  the  new  spint,  as  tliev  cull  it,  liy  I'orcc,  ^:i-.,  »!v:c.  ^'(m 
M'ill  reflect  liow  inaiiy  u  ]tious  honest  man  "\ve  have  spared  in  life 
to  his  wife  and  cliilth'cn,  in  these  war  times,  by  takin<^'  the  AVnrd 
of  God  as  oin-  rule  and  hy  rcl'usin^u'  tn  join  the  French  alliance, 
and  sell  our  bodies  to  foreij^u  powers.  In  this  and  cvciy- 
thing  else  you  have  ])roved  your  ])iety  and  zeal.  llow  nuicli 
more  shall  we  not  hold  tom'thcr  in  that  Mliich  most  deejdy  con- 
cerns the  honour  of  Clod,  the  peace  of  our  consciences,  and  the 
salvation  of  our  souls — we  mean  the  dividing  of  the  word  of  life  ? 
Take  friendly  counsel  together,  and  let  us  know  your  minds." 
The  answer  from  Winterthur  contains  in  the  main  the  sense  and 
ccmtents  of  all  the  answers  returned  to  this  address.  "  We  herel)y 
record,  and  have  resolved,  in  as  far  as  in  onr  ])ower  lies,  to  keep 
fidelity  and  truth  with  our  gracious  lords  as  we  have  sworn; 
to  place  honoTir,  body,  property,  and  life  at  their  disi)0sal,  to 
defend  God's  Holy  A\'ord,  and  our  own  lives  and  liberties."  In 
every  quarter,  the  desire  was  loudly  expressed  to  preserve  peace 
with  the  Confederates,  and  with  the  unions  as  far  as  possible. 

Placing  their  trust  in  God,  and  confiding  in  the  affections  of 
enlightened  and  believing  sid)jects,  the  Government  of  Zurich 
now  advanced  farther,  under  the  leading  of  Zwingli,  on  the  path 
of  peaceful  lJeformati(tn.  The  Mass,  although  the  ]ierformance 
and  attendance  on  it  were  optional,  had  within  the  period  since 
the  autumn  of  1528,  u]»  till  the  winter  of  152o,  fallen  greatly  into 
desuetud(\  while  the  celebration  of  the  Supper,  according  to  its 
original  institution,  had  not  yet  been  introduced.  This  was  a 
state  of  things  that  Zwingli  and  his  colleagues  were  resolved  no 
longer  to  endure.  On  the  Tuesday  ])receding  Palm-Sunday,  they 
appeared  before  the  Council,  to  renew  in  an  emphatic  manner  the 
petition  presented  at  Christmas;  that  now  at  length,  on  the 
occasion  of  the  Easter  festival,  the  celebration  of  the  Su]i])cr 
according  to  its  original  institution  might  be  ordered  and 
appointed.  At  this  time,  Zwingli  again  delivered  his  vicMs  on 
the  Sui)])er.*  The  toMii-clerk,  Am  Gruet,  combatted  these  views, 
and  maintained  the  words,  "  this  is  my  Ixxly, "  to  be  a  plain 
expression,  that  the  bread  is  the  real  body  of  Christ ;  conse- 
quently they  establi.sh  the  liomish  doctrine  of  transubstantiation. 
Zwingli    quoted     in    defence    of    his    own    statement    several 

*  Scp  Sections  IV.  nnd  V.  lu'low. 
K 


146  ITS  CONSEQUENCES. 

passages,  as,  "  The  seed  is  tlie  Word ;"  "  I  am  the  vine ;"  "  The 
rock  was  Christ,"  in  all  which  places  the  is  has  the  force  of 
signifies.  Am  Gruet  ol:»jected,  that  these  passages  were  taken 
from  parables,  and  proved  nothing.  Zwingli,  on  the  other  hand, 
shewed  that  most  of  the  passages  referred  to  were  not  con- 
tained in  the  parables,  but  in  the  "expositions,"  consequently 
the  objection  was  without  force.  The  Council  passed  the  resolu- 
tion: that  the  Mass  be  abolished,  and  the  Lord's  Supper,  accord- 
ing to  its  original  institution,  and  with  a  Liturgy,  prepared  for  it 
by  Zwingli,  be  celebrated  on  the  following  Thursday,  being  a 
high  day.*  The  Eeformer,  before  going  to  bed,  occupied  himself 
in  looking  for  passages  in  which  the  copulative  "  is,"  incontestably, 
and  unconnectedly  with  parables,  has  the  sense  of  "  signifies." 
The  matter  was  present  to  him  in  his  dreams.  He  seemed  in 
dispute  with  Am  Gruet,  and  could  not  rebut  his  chief  objection. 
Suddenly  a  person  appeared  to  him,  and  said :  "  Wliy  don't  you 
cite  second  book  of  Moses,  chap.  xii.  ver.  11,  where  it  is  said,  'And 
ye  shall  eat  it  (the  Lamb)  in  haste ;  it  is  the  Lord's  Passover.' " 
Zwingli  awoke,  looked  up  the  passage  in  the  Greek  translation, 
and  chose  it  as  his  text  for  the  sermon  he  was  to  preach  the  next 
day.  At  an  after  period,  he  told  this  dream,  making  the  observa- 
tion, that  he  did  not  know  whether  the  person  who  appeared  to 
him  in  the  dream  Avas  white  or  black.  His  enemies  made  him 
out  to  be  black,  and  asserted  that  the  devil  himself  had  whis- 
pered this  doctrine  into  the  Reformer's  ear. 

On  High  Thursday  1525,  the  celebration  of  the  Lord's  Supper 
was  for  the  first  time  performed,  accompanied  by  the  Liturgy 
prepared  by  the  Reformer,  and  already  in  print.     The  altars  were 

*  It  is  plain  that  tlic  Liturgy,  in  order  to  have  been  repeated  by  tlie  congre- 
gation, must  liave  been  in  tlie  hands  of  the  communicants  before  the  celebration. 
Previously  to  the  year  1531,  however,  this  co-operation  of  the  congregation 
ceased,  and  deacons  took  their  parts  in  the  colloquies  with  the  pastor.  The 
celebration  of  the  Sacrament  was,  on  the  motion  of  Zwingli,  appointed  to  be  held 
on  the  four  existing  high  festivals  (high-zylic),  namely,  Christmas,  Easter, 
Pentecost,  All-Saints.  After  1.530,  however,  on  the  last  named  along  with  otlier 
festivals  being  abolished,  which  had  no  reference  to  Christ  and  his  work,  which 
were  not  "  festa  Christi,"  the  autumn  commtmion  in  Zurich  fell  out,  and  was  not 
revived  till  1768,  when  it  was  fixed  on  the  Fast-Day  of  the  Confederacy.  At 
Easter,  a  threefold  distribution  of  the  Sacrament  took  place  according  to  its 
original  institution,  namely,  on  High  Thursday  to  the  adult  j'outh,  on  Good 
Eriday  to  the  middle-aged,  and  on  Easter  Sunday  to  the  old. 


ITS  CONSEQUENCES.  1  +7 

i'(Mii()V{'d.*  and  in  tin.'  ]ilace  of  tlii'  ])i'iiK'ii)al  altai\  a  table  covered 
witli  u  white  cloth  was  set,  on  which  the  wooden  ])lates  with 
unleavened  bread,  and  the  wooden  goblets  MJth  the  wine;  of 
thanksffivinof,  stood.  The  administration  of  tlie  ordinance  was 
performed  in  the  following  manner  : — 

After  sermon,  the  minister  witli  the  deacons  takes  np  his  jdaec 
behind  tlie  table,  his  face  turncnl  towards  the  congregation,  and 
says  in  an  audible  voice — 

In  the  name  of  God,  the  Father,  Son,  and  Holy  (J host. 

The  conrjregation :  Amen. 

The  minister :  Let  us  pray.     (The  congregation  kneel.) 

Almighty  and  everlasting  God,  whom  all  creatures  honour, 
worship,  and  adore,  as  Architect,  Creator,  and  Father, 
grant  unto  us,  poor  sinners,  that  wt,  with  upright  hearts 
and  with  true  faith,  may  render  unto  Thee  thanksgiving 
and  praise,  as  Tliine  only  begotten  Son,  our  Itcdeeiner, 
Jesus  Christ,  by  the  commemoration  of  His  death  hath 
commanded  us  believers  to  do.     And  this  we  pray  for 
the  sake  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  Thy  Son,  who  with 
Thee  live^  and  reigns  in  union  with  the  Holy  Spirit, 
one  everlasting  God.     Amen. 
Hereon  the  clerk,  standing  at  thc^  right  of  the  minister,  reads 
the  passage,  1  Cor.  xi.  20-29.     The  clerks,  with  the  whole  con- 
gregation, on  this  being  finished,  say,   "  God  be  praised."     The 
folbm-ing    hynm    is    then    sung    in    responses.       The    minister 
begins : 

Glory  to  God  in  the  highest. 
The  men  :  And  yieace  on  earth. 
The  women :  And  good- will  to  men. 
The  men  :  We  praise  and  exalt  TliT?e. 
The  women :  AVe  invoke  and  adore  Tliee. 
The  men:  We  prai.se  Thee,  0  Lord   (iod,    King  of   heaven. 
Father  Almighty,  for  Thy  great  mercy  and  goodness. 

The  women  :  O  Lord  God.  O  Tliou  only-begotten  Son,  Jesus 
Christ,  and  < )  Thou  Holy  Spirit. 

*  The  pyxes  ami  altars  were  broken  up  and  removed.  Tlie  first  experienced 
this  fate  because  Christ  had  not  coninianded  "  the  elements"  to  be  enclosed  an<l 
worshipped,  but  to  be  distributed.  Out  of  the  stones  of  the  nltnrs  pulpits  were 
Imilt,  from  which  Christ  was  to  be  jireachcd. 


1  48  ITS  CONSEQUENCES. 

The  men  :  0  Lord  God,  Thou  Lamb  of  God,  Son  of  the  Father, 
that  takest  away  the  sins  of  the  world,  have  mercy  upon  us. 

The  luomen  :  Thou  wlio  takest  away  the  sins  of  the  world,  hear 
our  prayer. 

The  men:  Thou  who  sittest  at  the  right  hand  of  the  Father, 
have  mercy  upon  us. 

The  women :  For  Thou  alone  art  Holy. 

TJie  men :  Thou  alone  art  King. 

The  luomen :  Thou  alone  art  The  Highest,  0  Jesus  Christ,  with 
the  Holy  Spirit,  to  the  glory  of  God  the  Father.  -  Amen. 

Men  and  wo7nen :  Amen. 

]\^ow  the  Clerk  says:  The  Lord  be  with  you. 
The  congregation :  And  wdth  thy  soul. 
The  Clerk  reads  John  vi.  47-63.     After  having  read  this 
passage,  he  kisses  the  Book,  saying,  "  God  be  praised 
and  thanked,"  He  will  forgive  us  all  our  sins,  according 
to  His  Holy  Word. 
The  congregation:  Amen. 

Hereon  the  apostle's  creed  is  confessed  in  responses,  by  men 
and  women.  After  this  confession  of  faith,  the  clerk  says  :  "  We 
sliall  now,  dear  brethren,  according  to  the  institution  of  our  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  eat  bread  and  drink  wine  according  to  His  command- 
ment, in  grateful  commemoration  of  the  death  He  hath  suffered 
for  us,  and  the  blood  He  hath  poured  forth  for  the  taking  away  of 
our  sins.  Therefore  let  each  prove  himself,  according  to  the 
words  of  Paiil,  as  to  what  comfort,  faith,  and  surety  he  hath  in 
our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  that  none  give  himself  out  for  a  believer 
who  is  not,  and  thereby  make  himself  guilty  of  the  Lord's  death ; 
also,  let  no  one  sin  against  the  Christian  community,  (or  body  of 
Christ.)  Therefore  kneel  down  and  pray :  '  Our  Father  which 
art  in  heaven,'"  &c.  &c.  The  congregation  closes  the  Lord's 
Prayer,  spoken  by  the  clerk,  with  a  simultaneous  Amen.  Now 
the  clerk  prays  farther:  "0  Almighty  God,  who  by  Thy  Spirit 
hast  made  us  through  unity  of  faith  to  be  one  body,  which  body 
Thou  hast  commanded  to  say  praise  and  thanks  to  Thee  for 
Thy  great  goodness  and  mercy,  in  that  Thou  hast  given  up  to 
death  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  for  our  sins,  grant  us  to  do  this  with 
such  true  hearts  that  we  may,  by  no  hypocrisy  or  falsehood,  grieve 
Him  who  is  the  truth   itself      Grant  us  also,  we  pray  Thee,  so 


ITS  CONSEQUENCES.  1  +9 

innocently  to  live,  as  it  becomes  Thy  body,  tlie  nienibi-vs  of  Thy 
family,  Thy  children,  that  thereby  also  unbelievers  may  learn  to 
know  Thy  name,  and  recognise  Thy  gloiy ;  O  Lord,  forbid  it  that 
through  our  lives  Tliy  name  and  glory  should  be  blaspheuied. 
()  Lord,  Thou  mIio  livest  and  reignc^st  for  evermore,  increase  our 
faith."  Hereon  the  clerk  reads  a  second  time  the  passage,  1  CV)r. 
xi.  23-26.  At  the  words,  "He  took  the  bread,"  the  minister  takes 
the  bread,  bivaks  it,  and  gives  it  to  the  clerks  on  his  right  and 
leit.  The  same  is  done  with  the  cup.  \\nien  the  passage  has 
been  read  to  the  end,  the  minister  communicates.  The  ap]iointed 
office-bearers  then  bear  the  Invad  and  the  wooden  cups  with  the 
wine  to  the  communicants,  who  receive  the  communion  kneeling 
on  their  footstools.*  While  this  is'going  on,  the  last  addresses  of 
Jesus  to  His  disciples,  from  John  xiii.  and  following  chapters  are 
read  from  the  pulpit.  On  the  ceremony  being  finished,  the 
minister  begins  to  read  Psalm  cxiii.,  which,  after  his  pronouncing 
the  first  verse,  the  congregation  carry  forward  in  responses.  Then 
the  minister:  0  Lord!  Thou  who  livest  and  reignest  God  to  all 
eternity,  we  thank  Thee  for  Thy  great  goodness  and  mercy.  The 
congregation:  Amen.  The  minister:  Go  in  peace.  The  Lord 
bless,  &c.  &c. 

This  celebration  of  the  Lord's  Supper  was  accompanied  by 
blessed  results.  An  altogether  new  love  to  God  and  the  brethren 
sprang  uj),  and  the  words  of  Christ  received  spirit  and  life.  The 
different  orders  of  the  liomish  Church  unceasingly  quarrelled  ^nth 
each  other;  the  brotherly  love  of  the  first  centuries  of  Christianity 
returned  to  the  Church  with  the  gospel.  Enemies  renounced  old 
deep-rooted  hatred,  and  embracedin  an  ecstasy  of  love  andasenseof 
common  brotherhood,  by  the  partaking  in  common  of  the  hallowed 
bread.  Deeply  touched,  Zwingli  thanked  the  I^rd  for  these 
wonders  of  love,  which  the  mass-sacrifice  had  never  accomplished. 
"  Peace  has  her  habitation  in  our  town,-f- — no  quarrel,  no  hypocri.sy, 
no  env}',  no  strife.     Wlience  can  such  union  come  but  from  the 

*  In  the  country,  where  suitable  individuals  were  not  to  lie  found  to  assist  the 
pastor  as  above,  he  read  alone.  When  the  responses  of  the  conprefration  fell 
into  desuetude,  the  whole  Liturpy  was  read  by  the  pastor.  In  the  town-churclus, 
as  in  Zurich  and  Chur.  tlie  Sacramental  Liturpy  is  still  read  by  the  j>astor  and 
his  assistants,  the  latter  sonictinies  selected  from  the  students  of  tlieolopy,  with 
responses  on  the  i«art  of  the  conprepation. 

+  In  n  letter  tn  CEcolnmpiul  nt  Basic. 


150  ITS  CONSEQUENCES. 

Lord,  and  ouv  tloctriiie,  which  fills  us  with  the  fndts  of  peace 
and  piety."*  Along  with  the  abolition  of  the  mass,  and  the 
introduction  of  the  Lord's  .Supper,  changes  in  a  similar  spirit  were 
effected  in  other  parts  of  divine  worship.  These,  too,  were 
transformed  so  as  to  serve  solely  the  purposes  of  instruction  and 
edification.  Baptism  was  administered  in  the  German  language, 
with  the  omission  of  superstitious  observances  and  exorcisms. 
The  Catechumens,  instead  of  being  subjected  to  the  Confirmation, 
received  at  Easter  and  Christmas  the  lesson  "  to  keep  God  before 
them,  His  Word  and  revealed  will,  and  learn  from  thence  their 
duties  towards  Him  and  their  neighbour,  to  look  up  to  Him  as  to 
a  Friend  and  Father,  and  to  apply  to  Him  in  every  time  of  the 
body  and  soul's  need.  Such  I  believe,"  continues  Zwingli, "  to  have 
been  confirmation,  as  practised  in  the  early  church,  and  it  served 
this  purpose,  that  those  who  were  baptised  in  infancy  might,  on 
coming  to  years  of  discretion,  confess  the  truth  with  conviction 
after  knowledge  obtained.  The  name  '  Confirmation,'  too,  dis- 
tinctly shews  this." 

.  The  unintelligible  ynass  and  choir-chanting  in  a  strange  tongue 
was  made  to  cease,  according  to  the  word  of  the  prophet,  Amos  v. 
23  :  "  Take  thou  away  from  me  the  noise  of  thy  songs :  for  I  will 
not  hear  the  melody  of  thy  viols."  "  Wherefore,"  exclaims  Zwin- 
gli, "  farewell,  ye  temple-murmurs,  and  paid  drawling  prayers,-f- 
ye  will  do  us  no  more  ill;  good,  I  know,  ye  have  never  done  us. 
But  hail,  0  pious  inward  prayer  that  the  Word  of  God  awakens 
in  the  heart  of  the  believer ;  thou  gentle  sighing  of  the  soul  that 
lasts  but  for  a  moment,  yet  kno^vs  itself,  then  listens  farther  to 
hear  what  God  the  Lord  will  say  and  reveal.  Hail,  likewise,  thou 
general  prayer,  offered  up  by  all  Christians  for  one  another,  not 
for  pay,  but  from  the  heart,  be  it  in  the  public  temple  or  the  pri- 

*  Merle  d'Aiibigne',  "  History  of  the  Iletbrmatioii." 

t  The  Pajial  Church  knows  no  congregational  singing ;  it  is  therefore  false 
to  say  of  Zwingli  that  he  did  away  with  it ;  he  rejected,  however,  uncondi- 
tionally, the  Mass  and  Choir-chantings,  drawled  over  in  the  Latin  language, 
and  left  sepai'ate  communities  as  they  chose  to  introduce  the  German  hymn. 
He  himself,  although  a  warm  admirer,  and  a  i)rofound  judge  of  music,  did  not 
introduce  it,  solely  from  want  of  time,  in  the  pressure  of  affairs,  to  select  fitting 
hymns,  and  to  arrange  Divine  worship  for  it  in  a  manner  accoi-dant  with  his 
own  views.  We  find,  however,  a  commencement  in  this  direction  in  his  metrical 
version  of  the  129th  Psalm,  for  which  he  also  coni])oscd  a  tnne.  Judges  speak 
highly  of  its  merits. 


LAWS  AND  KEGULATIOMS.  ^^c.  1  o  1 

vate  saiictuanL'S  of  Christians.  1  know  that  Thou  ait  the  prayer 
to  which  God  will  give  that  which  He  hath  promised."  The 
oi"gans,  likewise,*  which,  at  that  time,  were  too  successful  in  mini.s- 
tering  to  intellectual  laziness  and  ahsence  of  thought  in  the  clergy, 
were  removed,  as  Bullinger  says,  hecause  they  were  foinid  not 
very  well  to  consist  Mith  the  apostolic  doctrine,  as  taught  in 
1  Cor.  xiv.  On  tlie  other  liand,  the  Word  of  God  accompanied  by 
ja'ayer  was  preached  with  increased  zeal.  A  P>il  >le-lesson  took 
the  place  of  matins  ;  at  nine  o'clock  an  exposition  of  Scripture, 
(the  prophesying,)  followed,  this  service  falling  out  on  Friday, 
which  was  market-day;  Bible  instruction  again  took  the  place  of 
Vespers;  on  Sabbath,  there  was  a  forenoon  and  afternoon  sermon. 
Thus  Christians  had  the  sound  ami  wholesome  spiritual  food  of 
the  "Word  of  CJod  presented  to  their  acceptance  in  rich  profusion. 
Their  hearts,  trained  to  seek  salvation  in  Christ  Jesus  alone,  drew 
largely  out  of  His  fulness,  and  grace  for  grace, 

]>ut  this  young  and  hqw  nursery  of  the  Word  of  God  required 
a  protecting  hedge.  It  was  preseiTcd  against  fresh  errors  and  new 
declensions,  by  a  Christian  discipline  such  as  the  gospel  of  Christ 
demands.     To  it  let  us  now  turn  our  attention. 


8.   ZwiNGLl's  I^\WS  AND  KEGULATIONS  FOR  MAINTAINING  CHRIS- 
TIAN  ]MORALITY  AND   EXERCISING  DISCIPLINE  ON  LaITY  AND 

Clergy. 

In  the  corrupt  Eonu'sh  Church  the  ordinances  which  ought  to 
liave  preserved  and  supported  Christian  morality,  and  maintained 
discipline,  had  degenerated  so  far  from  their  original  design  as 
to  have  become  nothing  more  but  merely  the  richest  sources  of 
gain  to  the  clergy.  The  greatest  iniquity,  and  the  most  enor- 
mous crime,  found  a  ready  pardon  from  the  Church  for  money. 

*  In  confirmation  of  this  statement  I  quote  what  was  written  by  a  hiymaii 
shortly  before  the  Reformation  :  "  The  popes  and  the  ])riests  have  completely 
oppres.sed  us.  Firstly,  They  have  discovered  the  way  to  fish  out  all  our  secrets, 
namely,  by  the  Confessional.  They  next  compel  us  to  jjo  to  church,  but  it  is  only 
that  we  may  sacrifice  our  money.  On  the  other  hand,  t/ici/  never  pro  to  church 
themselves,  except  when  they  hope  to  get  money.  Their  duty  is  to  come  to 
church  to  sinpr.  but  that  theij  iiuiij  he  oliVujcd  to  xin;/  Irss,  (hry  have  set  uji  the  organs 
to  do  their  n-orlc;  there  fails  but  one  thing,  and  for  this  they  work  night  and  day, 
and  that  is.  that  we  mav  go  to  hell  for  them." 


1')'2  LAWS  AND  EEGULATIONS 

Hence  vice  teemed  in  all  quarters,  and  at  the  papal  court  itself  in 
rankest  fecundity.  In  contrast  to  this  corruption,  the  Eeforined 
Church  has  in  nothing  so  much  manifested  its  divine  origin,  and 
its  living  connection  with  its  Head  and  Eed«emer,  as  by  that 
moral  purity  which  it  has  exacted  from  its  members,  and  the 
strictness  of  discipline  which,  according  to  the  directory  of  God's 
Holy  Word,  it  has  exercised.  The  Confessional,  to  be  sure, 
which  enaljles  the  clergy  to  wield  so  important  a  power  over  the 
laity,  was  abolished,  as  having  no  foundation  in  God's  Word. 
"  Holy  Scripture,"  writes  Zwingii,  "  knows  of  no  other  confession 
but  this,  that  man  should  know  himself,  and  throw  himself  at 
the  feet  of  the  mercy  of  God,  according  to  the  word  of  the 
psalmist :  '  I  said  I  will  confess  my  transgressions  unto  tlie  Lord ; 
and  thou  forgavest  the  iniquity  of  my  sins.'  (Psalm  xxxii.  5.)  As 
Crod  alone  pardons  sin,  and  gives  peace  to  the  wounded  spirit, 
we  must  ascribe  the  healing  of  our  wounds  to  Him  alone,  and 
open  them  alone  to  His  healing  hand.  Who  has  ever  discovered 
a  wound  to  another  except  to  the  physician  from  whom  he 
hoped  to  receive  healing  counsel?  Thus  it  is  with  the  Confes- 
sional. It  is  God  alone  who  heals  our  souls ;  it  is  to  Him  alone 
we  ought  to  disclose  our  wound.  If,  however,  you  do  not  know 
the  physician,  or  do  not  know  where  he  dwells,  no  man  forbids  you 
to  shew  your  wound  to  an  intelligent  counsellor,  and  ask  him  for 
advice.  And  if  he  be  a  wise  and  true  friend,  he  will  certainly 
point  out  the  physician  to  you,  ^^'ho  understands  his  art  so  well 
as  to  be  able  to  cure  you.  I  shall  now  explain  the  similitude. 
He  who  is  unacquainted  with  the  physician,  is  that  man  who 
has  not  yet  recognized  the  gTace  that  is  in  Christ,  but,  conscience- 
smitten,  strives  to  relieve  himself  of  the  burden  of  sin  which 
oppresses  him.  The  intelligent  and  faithful  counsellor  is  the 
servant  of  the  Word,  who,  like  the  Samaritan  in  the  parable, 
pours  wine  and  oil  into  the  wound.  Wine  denotes  the  bitter- 
ness of  repentance  which  it  produces,  Ijy  holding  up  a  glass  to 
the  man,  in  which  he  sees  himself,  and  whereby,  despite  all  his 
wriggling  and  striving  against  it,  he  arrives  at  a  full  view  of  his 
hypocrisy.  For  that  is  a  sour  and  bitter  thing  which  advertises 
a  man,  'Thou  art  tho7-oiighli/  wicked;'  yet  bitterer,  'Thou  canst 
not  deny  thy  wickedness;'  but  the  bitterest  of  all,  'Thou  art  dead 
in  sin,  and  thy  case  is  desperate.'     'Tis  now  that  the  wound 


VOll  MAINTAINING  CHRISTIAN  MORALITY,  X:c.  l'),*} 

Wgiiis  rightly  to  smait  ami  burn.  Tlic  scrx  ant  of  tlu'  AN'ord  ()u<;ht 
now  to  pour  in  oil;  1  mean  he  ou^ht  to  point  out  to  him  Clirist, 
who  is  anointed  with  the  oil  of  gladness  above  His  felloWK.  The 
minister  of  the  Word  ouglit  to  sliew  how  great  mercy  (!od  has 
conferred  u])on  us  tluough  Christ.  If  the  sinner  has  learned 
this,  he  will  let  himself  be  stoppeil  by  none,  Imt  will  forthwith 
run  with  all  speed  to  Christ.  As  respects  the  arguments  in 
favom-  t»f  confession,  they  are  hardly  worth  an  answer.  For  if 
one  understands  hut  the  little  whieh  1  shall  here  say,  it  will  not 
he  ditticult  for  him  to  see  that  the  Confessional,  as  it  has  been 
in  use  among  us,  has  no  place  in  Holy  Scripture.  To  confess 
(cuiijitere)  signihes,  in  the  first  place,  as  much  as  to  praise  and 
give  thanks ;  thus  praise  the  Lonl,  for  He  is  good.  Next,  it  signi- 
lies  have  coiitidence  in  Him ;  confess  that  He  is  our  rock  and  our 
refuge,  as  in  Psalm  civ.  It  farther  signifies,  acknowledge  the 
guilt  laid  to  our  charge.  In  this  sense  those  at  the  present  day 
confess  their  sins,  who,  when  they  hear  the  Word  and  are  hit  hy 
it,  run  straight  to  the  physician.  Finally,  we  "confess"  when 
we  reveal  a  secret  fault  or  crime  to  our  neighhoui',  or  to  one 
learned  in  the  Scriptures,  that  he  may  either  help  us  to  beseech 
'mercy  from  our  heavenly  Father,  or  that  he  may  give  us  advice 
liow,  in  the  future,  we  are  to  resist  this  sin.  Of  this  confession 
James  speaks  in  the  fifth  chapter  of  his  epistle,  ver.  16:  '  Confess 
your  faults  one  to  another,  and  pray  one  for  another,  that  ye  may 
be  healed.  The  effectual  fervent  j  irayer  of  a  righteous  man  availeth 
much.'  On  this  passage  the  papists  have  founded  the  doctrine 
of  ear-confession,  althougli  the  holy  James  speaks  of  nothing  of 
that  kind,  l)ut  simjdy  of  a  confession  which  one  makes  to  his 
neighbour,  when  he  lays  hare  to  him  .some  inward  and  hitherto 
concealed  wound.  Nothing  more  can  l)e  extracted  from  the 
above  ])assage,  but  that  each  is  to  go  to  his  neighbour,  and  beg 
of  him  that  he  would  help  him  to  jn'ay  to  Cod  for  his  sins,  and 
that  his  neighbour  or  friend  may  be  induced  to  do  this  Avith  tln' 
greater  zeal,  he  discovers  to  him  his  secret  wound.  In  a  word, 
he  confesses  rightly,  and  he' confesses  snfhciently,  wlio  puts  his 
trust  in  God,  who  praises  and  thanks  Him,  wlio  acknowledges 
to  Him  liis  sins,  and  bewails  them,  who  unceasingly,  with  the 
help  of  his  brethren,  prays  to  God  for  jjaidon ;  he,  I  say.  con- 
fesses rightl'j.     lb'  who  is  in  such  a  state  of  mind  has.  in  trutli 


lo-i  LAWS  AND  REGULATIONS 

the  greatest  need  of  a  priest.  But  of  what  priest?  Not  such  an 
one  as,  with  false  keys,  opens  his  gold  coffers  as  a  thief,  but  he 
who,  out  of  the  Word  of  God,  shews  him  at  once  his  own  misery 
and  God's  mercy.  Therefore  confession,  made  either  to  a  priest 
or  a  neighbour,  ought  not  to  be  called  a  discharge  for  sin,  but 
an  asking  for  advice!' 

Although,  however,  the  oft-almsed  power  over  the  conscience 
which  the  Confessional  afforded  was  tlnis  taken  out  of  the  hands 
of  the  clergy,  it  was  by  no  means  Zwingii's  design  to  relax  the 
bonds  of  discipline.  The  duty  appeared  the  more  necessary  and 
important  in  his  eyes,  of  watching  with  true  pastoral  vigilance 
and  fidelity  over  all  the  members  of  the  flock  entrusted  to  his 
care.  A  whole  net-work  of  laws  and  ordinances  on  morality  and 
discipline,  derived  from  the  Word  of  God,  was  cast  around  the 
infant  community,  by  which  thousands  were  preserved  from 
errors  and  gross  sins,  and  gradually  trained  up  to  be  living  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  of  Christ.  Marriage  occupied  a  chief  place 
in  this  system,  as  being  that  institution  which,  more  than  any 
other,  exerts  an  influence  on  public  morality,  since  it  is  a  true 
image  of  the  spirit  prevailing  in  the  family,  or  rather,  the  result 
of  it.  Zwingii  had  to  restore  this  ordinance  also  to  its  original 
signification,  and  divest  it  of  that  false  splendour  which  had  been 
cast  around  it,  as  if  it  were  a  sacrament,  that  he  might  set  its 
real  sanctity  and  inviolable  character  in  its  true  light.  "  Let  no 
man  suppose,"  says  he,  "  that  the  dignity  of  marriage  is  thereby 
diminished,  that  I  count  it  not  a  sacrament,  as  it  has  been 
thought  by  some  Paul  docs  in  Ephesians  v.  It  is  my  opinion 
that  a  twofold  error  has  been  committed  in  the  interpretation  of 
this  passage.  In  the  first  place,  the  Latin  translator  has  ren- 
dered the  Greek  word  /Mven^iov,  which  he  ought  to  have  trans- 
lated secret  (arcanum),  in  every  case  by  the  word  sacrament,  a 
sense  which  the  Greek  will  not  bear.  In  the  second  place,  we 
have  not  weighed  the  meaning  of  this  passage  with  sufficient  care. 
Paul,  namely,  intends  nothing  more  here  than,  by  a  comparison 
of  Christ  the  bridegroom  and  His  C^iurch  the  bride  to  a  husband 
and  wife,  to  express  that  Christ  has  died  for  His  own  people, 
and  has  made  himself  completely  theirs,  and  at  the  same  time, 
that  husband  and  wife  ought  reciprocally  to  do  all  and  suffer  all 
for  each  other.     The  husband,  as  the  image  of  God,  is  especially 


KOK  MAINTAINING  t'lUaSTIAN  MOEALITV,  &C.  1  o.') 

ti>  love  and  protect  his  wil'i',  and  ,L!,iv(.'  liiiusclf  fur  her;  the  wile 
to  hang  on  her  husband  ak)ne  with  love  and  true  fidelity.  ]^y 
so  doing  the  spouses  most  closely  reseiuLle  God,  while  God,  on 
the  other  hand,  condescends  to  call  himself  and  His  Church  by 
the  respective  nanu'S  of  husband  and  wife.  Thus  marriage  is 
holy,  since  neither  Christ  himself  nor  11  is  Church,  nor  any 
believing  soul,  eontennis  to  be  likened  to  it.  If,  then,  it  be  main- 
tained that  marriage  is  a  sacrament,  because  it  pivsents  an  image 
of  Christ  and  His  Church,  I  shall  not  dispute  its  title  to  be  so 
called  upon  this  ground.  But  a  consecration  or  necessary  obliga- 
tion it  is  not,  but  sim})ly  a  bond  of  union  to  a  common  life  and 
fate,  to  connnon  joys  and  sorrows." 

From  tliis  point  of  view  Zwingli,  in  contradistinction  to  the 
Koniish  Church,  declared  marriage,  on  certain  conditions,  to  be 
dissoluble.  Christ,  indeed,  says:  "AVliat  God  hath  joined  toge- 
ther that  shall  not  man  put  asunder."  "  In  my  opinion,"  con- 
tinues the  Keformer,  "  the  proper  sense  of  these  words  is  this  :  No 
one  shall  lightly  condenm  the  divine  ordinance  of  marriage  as 
I'apists  and  others  have  done.  And  no  one  shall  lightly  part 
those  that  have  been  joined  together  in  wedlock.  The  Lord  con- 
demns only  divorce  on  i'rivolous  pretences,  as  was  connnon  among 
the  Jews ;  by  no  means  every  divorce.  Neither  does  He  only 
except  one  cause  for  divorce,  although  He  only  mentions  one.  It 
is,  namely,  customaiy  for  the  Hebrews  to  understand  under  the 
lesser  all  the  similar,  and  still  more,  all  the  greater  cases.  As 
the  least  cause  He  specifies  adultery,  and  at  the  same  time  draws 
the  limits  beyond  which  no  divorce  can  take  place.  For  why 
should  God  exclude  all  those  causes  Mhich  are  equally  weighty 
and  even  weightier  than  adulter}',  as  for  example,  treachery, 
poisoning,  patricide,  &c.  Likewise  he  who  is,  by  nature,  inca])- 
al)le  of  l)egetting  children,  is  divorced  by  laws  human  and  divine, 
and  the  woman  may  marry  again,  although  this  is  nowhere  stateil 
in  Scripture.  Yet  Paul  says  :  '  If  they  cannot  contain  let  them 
marry,  for  it  isl)i'tterto  marry  than  tol)urn,'  1  Cor.  vii.  9.  Finally, 
Paul  permits  divorce  where  the  union  is  uneijual.  when  one  has 
left  the  other  on  account  of  the  faith." 

But  while  Zwingli,  on  these  ])rinci]il('s,  declared  mari-iage  to 
l»e  vot  sacramental,  and  to  lie  in  certain  cases  rlissolnhlc,  yet  he 
took  care,  on  tlie  nth'T  hiind,  that    it<  trui'  dignitv  and  sanctitv 


156  LAWS  AND  REGULATIONS 

should  be  all  the  more  rigidly  upheld  and  preserved  by  the 
means  of  a  strict  Christian  legislation  and  discipline.  At  the 
betrothal  itself,  all  must  be  avoided  which  might  possibly  disturb 
its  holy  relations.  Hence  a  betrothal  was  alone  held  to  be  valid, 
which  bridegroom  and  bride,  with  the  consent  of  parents  or  guar- 
dians, had  entered  into  with  their  own  free  will,  and  to  bring 
about  which,  neither  delusive  promises  nor  selfish  match-making, 
youthful  levity,  nor  the  application  of  any  description  of  force  on 
the  part  of  parents  or  guardians,  had  in  any  degree  co-operated. 
From  the  laws  on  marriage,  which  were  passed  under  the  in- 
fluence of  Zwingli,  arose  the  following  custom  at  the  giving  of 
the  promise :  The  parents  of  the  bridegroom  and  bride,  with  their 
nearest  relatives,  held  an  interview,  in  which  the  proposals  of 
marriage  were  discussed  and  considered,  and  then  and  there 
written  down  and  signed.  Thereon,  a  clergyman,  or  if  there  were 
none  present,  one  of  the  most  respectable  members  of  the  com- 
pany, took  the  hands  of  the  bridegroom  and  bride,  and  laid  them, 
the  one  in  the  other,  and  formally  betrothed  them.*  A  few  days 
afterwards,  the  nuptial  ceremony  was  publicly  celebrated  in  the 
church,  after  the  parties  had  been  twice  proclaimed.  Finally,  the 
law  protected  the  sanctity  of  the  marriage-bed  with  the  severest 
penalties,  as  it  threatened  a  violation  of  it,  first  with  imprison- 
ment, then  with  deprivation  of  the  rights  of  citizenship,  banish- 
ment out  of  the  town  and  canton,  and  finally,  in  the  case  of  the 
incorrigible,  with  death  by  drowning.  The  above  is  about  the 
sum  of  the  marriage  laws,  passed  in  1525,  and  which  were  read 
every  quarter  of  a  year  from  the  pulpit,  that  none  might  excuse 
himself  on  the  ground  of  ignorance.  The  pastor,  along  with  two 
or  four  pious  and  respected  members  of  the  community,  who 
bore  the  title  of  marriage-judges  or  marriage-guardians,  watched 
over  the  administration  of  the  laws  and  regulations.  The 
Marriage  Judicial  Court  of  the  town,  consisting  of  six  members, 
became,  after  Zurich  had  separated  itself  from  the  bishopric  of 
Constance  through  the  Keformation,  the  highest  court  of  appeal 
in  matrimonial  questions  for  the  whole  canton. 

The  whole  of  civil  life,  indeed,  in  farther  development  of  an 
ecclesiastical  constitution,  based  on  the  gospel,  came  to  be  traversed 

*  In  all  probalnlity  the  secret  betrothal  oC  Zwinj^li   was  pert'ormefl    in    this 
manner  by  one  of  his  ecclesiastical  friemls. 


FOK  MAINTAINING  CHRISTIAN  MORALITY,  &H'..  1  .')7 

liy  suitable  hu\'s,  highly  thvourable  to  morality.  The  sanctifica- 
tioii  of  the  Sal)l>ath  above  all,  was  sti-iiijj;(Mitly  rominanded,  with 
tlie  diligent  attendance  on  ]mblic  worship,  after  the  abolition  of 
the  holidays,  except  a  few,*  which  took  ])lace  in  152C.  "There 
is  scarcely  another  law,"  Zwingli  wi'ites,  "  which  Ood  more 
fretpiently  inculcated  on  the  Jews,  than  the  lvee])ing  of  the 
Sabbath.  By  this  law,  (lod  graciously  connuaudcd  man,  who  is 
formed  of  body  and  soul,  to  rt'st  his  btxly  from  labour,  that  his 
soul  may  more  conveniently  occu])y  itself  with  Him.  The 
Sabbath  has  its  foundation  in  tlic  t\v(»  first  and  highest  command- 
ments, in  which  are  contained  'the  law  and  the  ]n'ophets.'  It  is 
grounded  on  tlie  first  commandment,  which  leads  us  to  the  one 
God  with  all  our  heart,  soul,  mind,  and  strength,  because  M'e 
come  together  on  that  day  to  hear  Clod's  "Word,  by  which  we  are 
introduced  to  the  right  knowledge  of  Ilim  as  far  as  this  depends 
on  teaching.  Thus  Paul  also  speaks,  Horn.  x.  14,  'How  shall 
they  believe  in  Him  of  M'hom  they  have  not  heard.'  It  is  there- 
fore plain  that  by  the  administration  of  God's  AVord,  we  are 
brought  outwardly  to  the  knowledge  of  the  one  true  God.  This, 
however,  takes  i)lace  on  Sabbath,  as  is  to  be  seen.  Acts  xiii.,  and 
1  Cor.  xvi.  2,  on  which  account  the  Sabbath  is  by  no  means  to 
be  held  as  a  mere  ceremonial  ordinance.  It  is  likewise  founded 
on  the  second  commandment,  which  says,  we  are  to  love  our 
neighbour  as  ourselves.  On  whicli  account  we  ought  to  give  our 
senants  rest  and  refreshment.  But  observe  how  the  Sabl)ath 
becomes  ceremonial.  If  we  celebrate  it  after  the  Jews  on  the 
same  day  on  which  they  celebrate  it,  it  were  then  ceremonial, 
because  it  were  then  bound  to  time,  which  is  an  element  of  this 
world — an  outward  thing.  Or,  if  we  thought  that  the  Lord's 
day,  that  is  the  Sunday,  were  also  bound  to  time,  so  that  we 
dared  not  transpose  it  and  the  hearing  of  God's  Word  to  another 

*  Accordinp  to  a  decree  of  the  Council  of  1.526,  the  following  holidays,  l)Ci>ide9 
the  Sundays,  were  to  be  celebrated:  Christmas,  Easter,  Pentecost,  and  All- 
Saints'  day.-,  which  four  chief  festivals  were  called  hiph  or  high-season,  and 
at  which  the  Communion  was  dis])ensed,  then  St.  Ste]>hcn's  day,  the  day  of 
the  circumcision  of  Christ  (New- Year's  Day),  our  Ladies'  Day  at  Camllcnuis, 
Ea.ster-Monday,  Ascension,  Pentecost,  John  the  Baptist's  Day,  Alary  Magdalene's 
Day,  anil  the  day  of  Zurich's  patron  saints,  Fcli.x  and  Kcpnhi.  In  15.30  all 
holidays  which  had  respect  to  the  creature  were  done  away  with,  and  besides 
the  Sundays,  only  Christ's  fcstivnls,  with  Ivister-Mondny  and  Pcuteost- 
Mondav  were  retained. 


158  LAWS  AND  REGULATIONS 

day,  if  necessity  required  this  to  he  done,  then  also  it  were  cere- 
monial. But  we  are  not  to  serve  the  time,  but  the  time  us,  so 
that  in  every  church,  if  necessity  required  it,  for  example  at  the 
time  of  harvest,  M^e  can  place  the  observation  and  rest  of  the 
Sabbath  on  another  day,  or  we  may  work  the  whole  of  the  Sab- 
bath after  having  first  heard  the  Word  of  God ;  but  this  only 
171  case  of  necessity;  in  all  other  cases,  we  ought  to  let  our 
relatives  and  our  servants  rest,  as  has  been  already  said,  and  the 
one  bear  the  other's  burdens.  If,  for  example,  an  avaricious 
master  were  to  compel  his  servants  to  work  on  the  Sabbath, 
pointing  to  the  words  of  Christ,  Mark  ii.  26,  '  The  Salibath  was 
made  for  man,  and  not  man  for  the  Sabbath,'  he  would  err. 
But  how?  Just  because  he  treats  the  Sabbath  as  a  ceremony  of 
no  importance.  The  Sabbath  is,  so  far  as  it  is  a  ceremony, 
abolished,  and  no  longer  concerns  us,  for  Christ  lias  freed  us 
therefrom,  Matt.  xii.  8,  that  is  from  the  ceremonial  part  of  it. 
The  spirit  of  the  law  is,  to  love  God  above  all,  and  our  neighbour 
as  ourselves.  Now  it  belongs  to  the  spirit  of  the  law,  to  hear 
God's  Word,  to  meditate  on  His  benefits,  to  thank  Him  for  them, 
to  assemble  together  for  public  worship  and  prayer,  and  next,  in 
respect  of  love  to  our  neighbour,  to  allow  him  to  rest  on  that  day. 
For  although  we  are  not  bound  to  a  set  time,  yet  we  are  still 
bound  by  the  glory  of  God,  by  His  word,  by  His  praise,  and  by 
love  to  our  neighbour  to  keep  a  Sabbath.  Love  will  also  teach 
us  when  we  are  to  work  and  when  we  are  to  Sabbatise.  For 
love  never  fails.  A  pious  master  will  never  deny  his  servant  the 
requisite  rest,  and  just  as  little  will  a  pious  servant  refuse  to 
work  when  it  is  necessary,  or  rest  and  go  idle  to  the  loss  and 
damage  of  his  master." 

The  celebration  of  the  SaljlDath  was  regulated  according  to 
these  principles  laid  down  by  the  Eeformer.  It  was  ordained  by 
a  mandate  of  the  civil  magistrate  of  1530:  "That  seeing  that, 
firstly,  and  above  all  things,  we  ought  to  seek  the  kingdom  of 
God;  and  seeing  that  His  Word  is  the  only  sure  guide  and 
directory  to  this  kingdom  and  to  our  salvation,  we  order  and 
ordain  that  every  man,  be  he  noble-born  or  a  commoner,  be  he 
of  hiffli  or  low  estate,  man  or  woman,  child  or  servant,  shall 
attend  the  church-service  every  Sunday  at  least,  at  the  set  time 
of  public  worship,  except  he  bo  prevented  by  sickness,  or  other 


FOR  MAINTAINING  CHRISTIAN  MORALITY,  &C.  lot) 

sufficient  cause."  It  w«is  farther  ordered  tlmt  i-ach  was  to  remain 
till  the  services  of  the  sanctuary  were  finished,  and  in  no  manner 
to  disturb  the  same.  All  inns  nuist  l)e  chased  before  and  during 
Divine  service.  At  tlie  time  of  tlie  harvest,  peiTuission  was 
granted  to  gather  in  the  crops,  in  the  case  of  threati^ning  or  tem- 
pestuous weather,  and  with  consent  obtained  of  tlu^  whole  eccle- 
siastical community.  Gambling,  cursing,  and  all  excess  in 
eating  and  drinking,  as  well  as  in  dress,  were  ])r()hibited  under 
l)enalties ;  and  while  the  small  public-houses,  which  gave  occasion 
to  all  sorts  of  wickedness,  were  entirely  shut  up,  diinkabjcs  were 
nowhere  to  be  furnished  after  nine  o'clock  in  the  evening.  The 
New-Year's  Day,  riottms  jovialities,  and  the  carnivals,  especially 
the  masquerades,  were,  as  "  vain  jtastimes  of  Popish  extraction," 
to  be  no  longer  tolerated. 

The  execution  of  these  laws  and  regulations  was  diligently 
superintended  by  the  clergjTiieu,  with  the  marriage-judges,  whose 
nundjers  and  duties  increased  in  proportion  to  the  enlarged 
devt'lopment  which  the  laws  of  ecclesiastical  discipline  gradually 
acquired,  so  that  it  l)ecame  at  length  necessary  to  add  to  the 
marriage-judges  proper,  the  civil  magistrates  of  each  district  or 
comnumity,  along  with  two  elderly  men  of  worth  and  standing. 
This  board  of  moral  discipline  thus  composed,  summoned  delin- 
quents before  them,  warned  and  exhorted  to  a  Christian  moral 
life  and  convei'sation.  excluded  the  oftending  and  impenitent,  till 
reformation,  from  partaking  in  the  Communion,  and  designated 
them  to  the  civil  magistrate  for  punishment. 

In  respect  to  excommunication,  Z^\^ngli  had,  in  1523,  in  his 
I'mpositions,  laid  down  the  following  jninciples:  "  No  single  indi- 
vitlual  can  impose  exconnnunication ;  it  belongs  to  the  Church, 
that  is,  to  the  community,  in  which  he  that  is  worthy  of  excom- 
numication  dwells,  with  their  pastor,  to  do  tliis.  It  ought  to  be 
done  in  exact  conformity  with  the  prescriptions  delivered  by 
Christ  in  ^latt.  xviii.  15,  &c.,  and  the  sentence  ought  only  to  be 
executed  against  those  who  cause  public  scandal.  Thus  npplied, 
excommunication  is  wholesome.  For  what  is  more  effectual  in 
removing  gross  and  open  sins  than  excommunication  ?  You  have, 
let  us  suppose,  an  open  adulterer  in  your  comnnmity,  who  gives 
ofTeuce  to  the  whule  body;  how  can  you  amend  him  better  than 
by  first  warning  him  in  a  friendly  spirit  ?  if  on  this  he  does  not 


100  LAWS  AND  REGULATIONS 

give  up  his  sin,  by  next  taking  him  more  strictly  to  task  in  the 
presence  of  one  or  two  witnesses ;  and  if  thereon  he  do  not  alter 
his  way  of  life,  by  advertising  it  to  the  church  or  community. 
This  will  then  exclude  him,  and  receive  him  again  as  God 
enjoins.  Let  it  thus  be  done  with  all  vices,  which  cannot  in 
justice  be  passed  over  in  silence.  Besides,  we  are  all  sinners: 
and  each  has  need  that  his  neighbour  pardon  and  forgive 
him.  But,  in  the  case  of  shameless  vices,  which  give  public 
offence,  the  iron  rod  of  Christ  must  be  applied — for  this  shews 
itself  very  wholesome — that  the  whole  body  may  not  fall  into  a 
state  of  putrefaction  and  die."  The  sins  which  are  to  be  removed  out 
of  the  Church  of  Christ  l)y  excommunication,  Zwingli  counted  to 
be  adultery,  all  kinds  of  unchastity,  blasphemy,  drunkenness,  and 
the  still  more  serious  sins  of  perjury,  theft,  and  murder,  as  also 
avarice,  especially  as  it  discovers  itself  in  usury  and  fraud. 

These  principles,  however,  received  only  in  part  their  practical 
application.  We  have  seen  above  that  Zwingii's  main  object  was, 
with  the  silent  approl)ation  of  the  community,  of  which  he  was 
secure,  to  protect  the  young  and  tender  plant  of  the  Eeformation 
against  the  wild  excesses  of  the  Anabaptists.  AVith  this  view  he 
delivered  up  the  ecclesiastical  into  the  hands  of  the  civil  power, 
Init  always  on  the  understood  condition,  the  latter  were  to  take 
the  Word  of  God  as  their  sole  directory  in  all  their  proceedings. 
That  this  might  be  done,  Zwingli  and  his  colleagues  watched  their 
conduct  with  a  jealous  fidelity,  and  denounced  every  attempt  to 
exceed  the  prescribed  limits,  with  the  courage  and  energy  which 
became  them  as  guardians  of  a  holy  treasure,  and  as  prophets  of 
the  truth.  Excommunication  in  Zurich  thus  modified  itself  in 
accordance  with  these  ideas.  It  was,  indeed,  pronounced,  espe- 
cially in  country  districts,  by  the  ministers  and  the  Stillstand* 
(kirk-session),  as  a  temporary  exclusion  from  the  communion  on 
great  sinners;  but  as  a  perfect  disseverment  from  the  communion, 
with  loss  of  citizenship,  the  right  of  carrying  on  a  trade,  and  all 
other  civil  privileges,  it  could  only  be  pronounced  by  the  tem- 
poral authority.     This  combination  of  the  ecclesiastical  and  civil 

*  This  court  in  Zurich  for  the  exercise  of  ecclesiastical  discipline  was  called 
Stillstand,  for  the  reason,  that  at  the  close  of  divine  worship  the  members 
remained  in  the  church  stiU-standing  with  the  pastor,  making  their  communica- 
tions to  one  another,  and  reproving  those  cited  before  them  for  discipline. 


FOR  MAINTAIiXlNO  CHRISTIAN  MORALITY,  &C.  1  (!  1 

powers  in  our  boily  luid  .ilixnuly  a  historical  I'ouiulatioii  iu  SM'it- 
zerland ;  for  in  the  most  illustrioiis  ])erio(l  of  its  annals  tlic  civil 
power  liad  elfectively  maintained  its  right  to  decide  upon  the 
temporalities  of  the  church,  us  also  in  questions  of  discipline  and 
morals,  witli  tlie  inclusion  of  the  clergy,  high  and  low,  within  the 
jurisdiction.  Zwingli,  as  a  patriotic  liefoi-nicn-,  wislied  to  revive 
this  fine  old  time  with  its  simplicity  of  manners,  its  vigour  of 
character,  and  honesty  of  purpose.  Ho  wished,  tlierefore,  the 
magistracy  to  retain  its  ancient  lustre,  and  to  discharge  its  higli 
duties  with  the  old  integrity.  Besides  the  historical  foundation 
Zwingli  fo\ind  in  the  apostolic  Church  an  example  of  the  com- 
bination of  the  spiritual  and  temporal  powers.  "  Those  elders, 
(presbytei-s,)"  says  he,  "who  assembled  with  the  apostles  (Acts 
chap.  XV.),  to  consult  about  the  outward  affairs  of  the  church, 
were  not  the  ministers  of  the  AVord  but  elders  distingushed  by 
age,  wisdom,  and  faith,  who,  in  resjject  of  the  regulation  and 
transaction  of  ecclesiastical  business,  occupied  the  same  position 
as  the  Council  does  in  the  State."  To  the  objection  that,  in  the 
apostolic  Church,  the  apostles  and  not  the  lyiagistraci/  iironcmnutd 
excommiuiication*  on  blasphemers,  Zwingli  replied,  "that  the 
present  relations  of  tlie  Church  to  the  civil  power  had  become 
veiy  diflerent  from  what  they  then  were,  the  apostles  were 
l)laced  under  a  heathen  magistracy  which  ditl  not  inflict  any 
punishment  on  vices  that  a  Christian  ought  to  avoid.  That  the 
church  might  have  a  punishment  for  such  vices,  she  took  into 
her  own  hands  the  warning  and  cutting  olf  of  sucli  offenders,  for 
with  the  sword  she  could  not  punish  them,  since  it  had  not  been 
put  into  her  hands."  This  was  the  apostles'  reason  for  ap[)lying 
excomnninication  in  these  cases.  When,  however,  a  Christian 
magistracy  piuiishes  such  vices,  excommunication  becomes  no 
longer  necessary. 

Zwingli  had  come  to  entertain  suspicions  again.st  excommuni- 

*  It  was  at  tliis  time  chiefly  CEcolampad  wlio,  in  Switzerland,  pressed  the  intro- 
duction of  ecclesiastical  exconinnmication,  who  also  diflered  materially  from  his 
esteemed  friend  in  regard  to  its  form,  expediency,  and  ajijilication.  The  ques- 
tion was  discussed  in  several  assendilies  and  synods;  but  Zwingli's  view  always 
jirevailed;  without  doubt  for  the  reasons,  that  it  better  corresjionded  with  the 
already  existing  Swiss  relations,  and  that,  in  a  church  beset  by  so  many  tempests, 
it  was  the  only  ])rncticable  course  that  could  be  adopted,  a.s  the  attempts  of 
CEcolampad  at  Hasle  afterwards  jnnved. 

L 


102  LAWS  AND  EEGULATIONS 

cation,  from  seeing  the  frequent  and  wanton  use  made  of  it  by 
the  Anabaptists.  "  The  Anabaptists,"  said  he,  "  err  greatly  in 
pronouncing  excommunication  on  the  most  trivial  offences,  and 
even  on  those  whose  punishment  properly  belongs  to  the  civil 
power."  The  transference  of  a  certain  authority,  however,  to  the 
civil  magistrate  in  this  matter,  had  not  the  effect  of  preventing 
the  vigorous  administration  of  discipline  in  individual  cases,  and, 
in  particular  classes  of  the  Christian  comnumity.  The  magis- 
tracy bowed  themselves  under  the  authority  of  God's  Word, 
brought  home  to  their  hearts  by  faithful  heralds,  with  all  the 
power  of  living  conviction,  and  they  wielded  with  a  Christian 
seriousness  the  rod  of  discipline  both  on  themselves  and  their 
subjects.  In  the  separate  communities  the  ministers  worked  in 
union  with  the  Stillstand  Court  by  warning,  exhortation,  and 
reproof,  in  the  implanting  and  cultivation  of  Christian  morality 
and  virtue  with  very  beneficial  results.  The  procedure  to  be 
followed  on  the  part  of  the  minister  and  the  Court  of  Moral  Dis- 
cipline was  fixed  and  prescribed  at  a  later  period,  according  to 
principles  laid  down  by  Zwingii,  to  be  as  follows:  Against  the 
punishable  the  mode  of  proceeding  appointed  by  the  Saviour, 
Matt,  xviii.  15,  &c.,  shall  be  observed.  The  pastor,  on  an  evil 
report  being  brought  to  him  against  some  member  of  the  congre- 
gation, on  the  truth  of  which  he  can  depend,  shall,  if  the  case 
admit  of  delay,  and  no  public  scandal  has  been  given,  warn  the 
offender  alone,  in  the  first  instance,  to  depart  from  his  wicked- 
ness and  unrighteousness,  and  exhort  him  in  a  friendly  and 
fatherly  spirit,  but  always  with  a  due  regard  to  the  special 
circumstances  of  the  case.  In  the  event  that  such  a  warning  is 
no  longer  practicable,  or  in  the  event  of  its  having  proved  fruitless, 
even  after  a  repetition  of  it,  the  pastor  shall  then  take  with  him, 
but  in  all  secrecy,  one  or  else  two  of  the  nearest  relatives  of  the 
offender,  or  one  or  two  members  of  the  Stillstand,  or  other  respect- 
able and  worthy  men,  who,  in  the  circumstances,  may  appear  to 
him  to  be  the  fittest  for  the  purpose,  and  endeavour  to  win  the 
offender  over  by  pressing  representations,  that  thus  he  may  be 
spared  the  higher  degree  of  punishment.  If,  however,  this  course 
be  not  practicable,  or  if  the  matter,  by  reason  of  its  importance, 
cannot  be  ordered  in  this  manner,  the  pastor  shall  then  act  with 
the  advice  and  co-operation  of  the  elders  and  marriage-judges,  or 


FOR  MAINTAINING  CHRISTIAN  MORALITY,  &C.  KJO 

of  the  whole  Stillstand,  whom,  if  the  case  admit  of  the  postpone- 
ment, he  shall  summon  to  meet  on  tlie  next  Sunday,  or  Fastday, 
after  sermon,  in  the  clmrch;  he  shall  then  and  there  open  to  them 
the  scandal  given,  shall  cause  the  disobedient  person  to  present 
himself,  and,  with  the  advice  and  co-o])eration  of  tlie  above  men- 
tioned, he  shall  use  his  Lest  endeavours  to  bring  him  to  repent- 
ance, and  to  lead  him  back  to  the  path  of  virtue  and  godliness. 
If  the  transgressor  remain  unmoved  by  all  remonstrances  and 
exhortations,  he  shall,  last  of  all,  be  handed  over  to  the  supreme 
civil  power,  who  shall  then  declare  him  to  have  forfeited  all 
his  ecclesiastical  and  civil  rights,  till  obsei'\xd  repentance  and 
melicn-ation,  or  shall  banish  him  the  land."* 

This  vigorous  ecclesiastical  and  civil  disci])line  spread  itself 
over  all  the  relations  of  life,  and  produced  the  most  beneficial 
results.  Under  its  protecting  and  sheltering  intluence  there  grew 
up  and  flourished  those  manly  and  hardy  virtues  which  so  richly 
adorned  the  Church  of  the  Keformation  at  its  commencement. 
To  make  these  laws  and  regulations,  however,  of  practical  avail 
to  the  connnunity,  it  was  clearly  necessary  that  the  ministers  of 
the  Word,  in  the  first  instance,  should  be  under  its  power,  and 
that  their  walk  and  conversation  should  be  regulated  by  the 
spirit  of  the  gospel. 

For  the  pui-pose  of  watching  narrowly  over  the  doctrines  and 
the  lives  of  the  clergy,  the  half-yearly  synods  were  introduced  in 
the  spring  of  1528,  "to  the  praise  of  God,  and  a  protection  to  his 
everlasting  AVord,"  as  the  decree  of  the  Council  appointing  these 
meetings  bears.  Twice  every  year,  at  Easter  and  in  autumn,  all 
the  pastors,  who  were  accompanied  by  one  or  two  members  of  their 
congregation  appointed  by  the  Council,  were  obliged  to  appear  in 
the  town  in  a  Synodal -Assembly  which,  on  the  part  of  the  Council, 
was  attended  by  the  burgomaster,  six  councillors,  and  the  town- 
clerk,  who  recorded  the  proceedings.  The  sitting  was  opened  by 
prayer,  "  in  which  God  was  supplicated  for  grace,  that  the  delib- 
erations of  this  assembly  might,  in  a  spirit  of  seriousness,  be 
directed  to  the  advancement  of  His  gloiy,  the  weal  and  prosperity 
of  His  Church,  the  maintenance  of  trutli,  and  the  promotion  of 
godliness  and  true  piety,  that  none  within  it  might  be  falsely 

•  So  runs  the  ordinance  in  question.  At  all  events,  this  high  judicial  excom- 
munication was  only  executed  in  very  rare  ca.scs. 


164  LAWS  AND  REGULATIONS 

accused,  or  any  unduly  favoured.  Upon  this  the  ecclesiastical 
members  took  the  synodal  oath:  "That  I  shall  teach  and  preach 
the  Holy  Gospel  and  Word  of  God,  to  which  I  am  called,  as  it  is 
contained  in  the  Old  and  New  Testaments,  in  truth,  and  with  a 
full  Christian  understanding  of  the  same,  to  the  best  of  my  ability, 
(according  to  the  mandates  issued  by  my  lords,  tire  Councillors  of 
Zurich,  at  the  Eeformation  of  faith  and  doctrine,)  and  shall  mix 
no  dogma  or  doctrine  that  is  doubtful,  and  not  yet  introduced  and 
approved  by  the  regular  assemblies  of  the  Church.  I  shall  like- 
wise bear  true  loyalty  and  fidelity  to  my  lords,  the  burgomaster 
and  Council,  as  to  my  superiors,  and  to  the  citizens  ;  shall 
advance  the  best  interests  of  the  town  and  canton  of  Zurich ; 
shall  warn  them  of  all  that  is  injurious  to  their  true  interests, 
and  avert  it  in  so  far  as  it  lies  in  my  power,  and  shall  give  all 
due  obedience  and  heed  to  their  bailiffs  and  officers,  to  their 
commands  and  prohibitions  in  all  things,  just  and  lawful ;  I 
shall  keep  the  secrets  of  the  Council,  and  reveal  nothing  which 
may  bring  loss  or  cause  reproof:  all  which  I  swear  truly  and 
faithfully  to  observe." 

The  proceedings  of  the  Synod  commenced  under  the  presidency 
of  Zwingli,  assisted  by  Leo  Jud.  The  Synod  occupied  itself 
almost  exclusively  with  inquiries  into  the  doctrine,  occupations, 
walk,  and  conversation  of  the  individual  pastors,  with  the  dis- 
tribution of  exhortations,  reproofs,  and  punishment,  where  these 
were  deemed  necessary.*  For  the  purpose  of  carrying  out  this 
reciprocal  2)ersonal  censure,  the  clergy  divided  themselves  into 
ten  sections,  who,  each  in  their  appointed  order,  retired  from 
the  Assembly  till  a  deposition  was  taken  in  reference  to  each 
from  the  members  of  the  congregation  who  were  present,  from 
their  neighbouring  colleagues,  and  from  all  members  of  Synod 
who  were  in  a  position  to  give  information.  This  deposition  had 
especial  regard  to  the  doctrine  of  the  individual  in  question,  his 
fidelity  in  the  discharge  of  official  duties,  his  love  to  Holy  Scrip- 
ture, his  application  to  it  and  other  useful  studies,  his  life,  and 
the  example  he  set,  his  domestic  economy,  and  the  demeanour  of 

*  Por  erroneous  doctrine,  neglect  of  official  duties,  and  irregularities  of  life, 
the  synods  could  impose  temporary  suspension  from  office,  imprisonment,  and 
deposition.  Offences  against  the  civil  magistrate  committed  by  clergymen  were 
punished  by  the  same.  The  wives  and  relations  of  the  clergy  were  also  subjected 
to  the  punitive  code  of  the  synod. 


FOE  MAINTAINING  CHRISTIAN  MORALITY,  &C.  1  65 

liis  wife,  his  children,  and  the  memhers  of  his  household.  Neces- 
sary and  wholesome  as  tliis  institution  proved  itself  to  be,  it  was 
yet  in  the  execution,  and  in  particular  cases,  accompanied  with 
very  considerable  difficulties,  especially  as  the  monks  and  eccle- 
siastics of  the  dissolved  cloisters  and  foundations,  who  drew 
stipends  from  church  property,  were  under  the  surveillance  and 
discipline  of  the  Synod.  A  great  part  of  these  could  by  no  means 
be  brought  to  abandon  the  idle  dissolute  life  which  they  had  been 
accustomed  to  lead  in  the  corrupt  Eomish  Church,  while  the 
attendance  on  sermon  and  the  new  public  worship,  to  which  all 
were  bound,  was  to  them  in  the  highest  degree  distasteful.  The 
Council,  to  procure  a  better  obedience  in  this  latter  respect,  saw 
itself  compelled  to  exact  a  small  fine  (a  quarter  kern),*  from  the 
negligent  and  obstinate,  which  was  deducted  from  their  income, 
for  every  sermon  or  lection  they  neglected  to  attend. 

By  these  and  similar  measures,  a  severe  and  strict  discipline 
was  exercised  over  the  clergy  and  all  comiected  with  them.  The 
great  scandals  they  had  caused  to  the  community  in  the  Eomish 
Church  were  thus  removed  from  the  Reformed  Church.  And  the 
more  that  the  ecclesiastics  submitted  to  the  rod  of  Christ,  and 
desisted  from  their  old  and  bad  practices,  the  more  time  the 
Synod  found  to  turn  its  attention  to  other  church  matters.  It 
was  about  this  time  that  the  Baptismal  and  Marriage  Eegisters 
were  introduced.  The  object  of  the  first  was  to  meet  more  suc- 
cessfully the  disorders  of  Anabaptism,  and  also  to  ascertain  \vith 
exactness  the  age  of  the  adult  youth  of  both  sexes,  wliich,  wdth 
the  view  of  preventing  a  betrothal,  was  sometimes  falsified  by  the 
parents.  Tlie  special  object  of  the  JMarriage  Eegisters  was  to  leani 
"  who  lived  together  in  a  state  of  wedlock  and  who  not ;  that,  in 
the  latter  case,  they  might  be  made  to  complete  their  union  by  a 
regular  ecclesiastical  man-iage,  or  if  not,  made  to  separate." 

Thus  the  wholesome  work  of  reformation  was  completed  by 
Z^\•ingli  in  the  Church  of  Zurich,  after  the  model  of  the  Apostolic 
Church  and  the  directoiy  of  the  Word  of  God.  In  the  preface 
of  "  Christian  Order  and  Customs  of  the  Church  at  Zurich,"  he 
says,  in  reference  to  the  completed  work,  "  The  Apostolic,  the 

*  The  income  of  the  dcrpy,  as  well  a.s  the  stipuliiteil  annuities  to  the  monks 
and  canons  of  the  dissolved  monasteries  an<l  foundations  was  reckoned  accord- 
ing to  a  standard  of  com  and  wine,  and  mostly  paid  in  untuni. 


1G6  LAWS  AND  EEGULATIONS,  &C. 

first  holy  Church  of  God,  had  the  pure  doctrine  of  truth,  prayer, 
breaking  of  bread,  holy  baptism,  acknowledgment  of  sin,  repent- 
ance, amendment  and  pardon  of  sinners.  (Luke  xxiv. ;  Acts  ii. ; 
1  Cor.  xi.)  The  Church  of  Zurich  has  these  also.  Wliat  neces- 
sary customs  the  primitive  Church  had,  the  Church  of  Zurich 
has  likewise.  Marriage  is  performed  with  a  due  regard  to  order, 
and  with  an  earnest  appeal  to  God.  The  memory  of  the  departed 
is  sacred,  as  of  those  wdiose  faith  and  love  we  ought  to  follow. 
The  dead  are  buried  with  decency,  although  not  with  such  cere- 
monies as  have  no  place  in  the  Word  of  God.  (1  Thess.  iv.) 
Fasting  and  alms-giving,  so  highly  esteemed  by  the  ancient 
Church,  have  also  in  Zurich  their  peculiar,  excellent,  and  Christian 
regulations.  The  youth  are  diligently  instructed  in  the  elements 
of  the  true  Christian  faith.  That  there  are  no  outward  decorations 
to  be  found  in  our  churches  of  silk,  gold,  silver,  pictures,  carved 
and  engraved  work  comes  from  hence,  that  the  old  Church 
had  none  such,  but  rejected  them.  For  this  reason  the  Church 
of  Zurich  has  disburdened  itself  of  all  ceremonies,  and  holds 
itself  to  the  ancient  simplicity.  God  will  not  be  honoured  with 
the  outward  appearance,  but  with  faith,  love,  with  a  pure  heart, 
and  with  truth.  To  Him  be  glory  and  praise,  through  Jesus 
Christ,  for  ever.     Amen." 


FIFTH   SECTION, 


ZWINGLI'S  LABOURS  FOR  THE  EXTENSION  AND  SUPPORT  OF 
THE  REFORMATION  WHICH  IvMANATED  FROM  IIIM,  IN  THE 
OTHER  CANTONS  OF  SWITZERLAND,  AS  WELL  AS  IN  GER- 
MANY, FRANCE,  AND  ITALY. 


•'  For  though  I  preach  the  gospel,  I  liave  nothing  to  glory  of:  for  necessity  is  laid 
upon  me;  yea,  woe  is  unto  nie,  if  I  preach  not  the  gospel. —  1  CoR.  ix.  16. 

1.    ZWINGLI'S  KpjLATION  TO  THE  NeW  EVANGELICAL   MOVEMENT, 

AS  THIS  Manifested  itself  in  some  of  the  Swiss  Cloisters. 

The  Keforinatiuii  is  au  act  of  God,  and  not  a  work  of  man, 
however  great  and  glorious  the  men  appear  in  the  annals  of  his- 
toiy  \vliom  God  called  to  execute  this  His  great  counsel.  The 
Eeformers  themselves,  illuminated  by  God's  Spirit,  which  leadeth 
into  the  knowledge  of  all  tnith,  recognized  that  they  themselves 
were  nothing,  that  in  the  Word  of  God  alone  there  is  to  he  found 
infallible  truth,  in  Christ  alone  everlasting  salvation.  "  But," 
says  Zwingli,  "  he  who  feels  in  his  own  soid  the  value  of  this 
salvation,  and  the  rest  and  peace  it  affords,  cannot  bear  that  his 
neighbour  should  be  ignorant  of  its  joy."  Hence  a  holy  apostoUc 
zeal  animated  them  to  publish  to  the  whole  of  Christendom  the 
truth  they  had  themselves  acquired,  to  revolutionise  and  renew 
public  worship  and  private  life,  according  to  the  demands  of 
God's  "Word.  Yet  all  their  labours  and  conflicts,  as  they  them- 
selves, in  all  humility,  acknowledge,  would  have  been  in  vain  if 
God  had  not  powerfully  drawn  the  hearts  of  men  to  himself  by 
His  Spirit,  and  awakened  them  to  faith.  But  just  because  God 
sent  forth  this  spirit,  like  the  animating  breath  of  spring, 
over  Christendom,  the  hearts  of  men  opened  willingly  to  the 
preaching  of  the  Word  of  His  gi-ace,  and  the  Iteformers  were  joy- 
fully bailed  as  aml^assadors  of  CJod  for  the  redemption  of  His 
people  out  of  the  fetters  of  eiTor,  as  giants  to  deliver  them  out 
of  the  pit  of  destruction.     At  sight  of  this  gloriotis  awakening. 


1G8  EELATION  TO  THE  NEW  EVANGELICAL  MOVEMENT. 

which  manifested  itself  everywhere,  Zwingii  was  unable  to 
restrain  his  emotion,  and  cried  out  in  a  transport  of  joy:  "The 
world  hangs  on  the  gospel,  ay,  even  although  ye  Papists  were 
to  go  mad  for  it.  Nay,  even  where  ye  suppose  there  is  not  a 
thought  of  Him,  there  the  very  children  find  the  living  God. 
From  fear  of  your  rage  they  hide  that  before  your  eyes  which  in 
their  hearts  grows  fresh  and  green,  and  is  already  sending  forth 
buds." 

The  consciousness  of  his  call  to  be  a  fellow-worker  with 
God  (1  Cor.  iii.  9.)  in  the  great  work  of  the  renovation  of  Christen- 
dom filled  the  heart  of  our  Eeformer,  in  the  midst  of  Ms  labours, 
with  a  joyous  feeling  of  triumph,  which  at  times  he  gave  utter- 
ance to  in  some  such  words  as,  "  That  which  is  begun  with  God, 
no  man  can  frustrate,  but  that  which  is  built  up  without  Hun 
must  fall."  This  conviction  inspired  him  with  courage  to  combat 
every  obstacle  which  placed  itself  in  the  way  of  the  work  of 
Eeformation,  and  to  respond  with  cheerfulness  to  the  numerous 
claims  that  were  made  upon  his  industry  and  zeal.  As  the  newly 
preached  gospel  gained  one  victory  after  another  in  Zurich,  and 
more  and  more  took  shape  both  in  the  public  services  of  the  sanc- 
tuary and  in  the  lives  of  its  professors,  the  friends  of  evangelical 
truth  in  Switzerland,  Germany,  France,  and  Italy  turned  ever 
and  anon  their  regards,  full  of  hope,  upon  the  indefatigable  cham- 
pion of  the  gospel  there.  They  applied  to  him  for  light  upon  diffi- 
cult passages  of  Scripture,  for  consolation  and  advice  in  inward 
doubts  and  trials,  for  direction  and  encouragement  in  the  carry- 
ing on  the  same  work  and  conflict  in  their  own  sphere  of  labour. 
With  the  heart  of  an  apostle,  Zwingii  lent  ever  a  willing  ear  to 
the  solicitations  of  individuals  and  the  Church.  He  answered 
all  the  prayers  and  questions  sent  to  him  in  reference  to  the 
extension  of  the  gospel,  although  he  had  nearly  sunk  under 
the  burden  of  labours  imposed  upon  him.  "The  pressure 
of  business,"  he  wrote  once  to  Haller,  "  and  the  care  of  the  Church, 
impose  such  a  load  upon  me  that  Dr.  Engelhard  lately  said  he 
wondered  very  much  I  did  not  lose  my  understanding.  The 
Suabians  write  to  me,  and  desire  of  me  more  than  I  can  do, 
although  I  exert  myself  to  the  utmost  to  content  them.  There 
^vrite  to  me  from  Switzerland  almost  all  who  are  exposed  to  per- 
secution for  Christ's  sake.     And  to  give  you  an  example  of  how 


RELATION  TO  THE  NEW  EVANGELICAL  MOVEMENT.  1 09 

much  my  time  is  taken  up  by  business,  1  shall  just  mention 
I  hat  1  have  been  more  than  ten  times  interrupted  during  the 
writing  of  this  letter." 

Let  us  now  contemplate,  in  a  few  examples,  the  fulness  of 
confidence  with  which  the  hearts  of  the  friends  of  evangelical 
truth  opened  to  Zwingli.  On  the  other  hand,  let  us  observe  the 
carefulness  and  watchfulness  with  which  he  laboured  for  the 
extension  of  the  gospel,  and  for  the  culture  and  support  of  that 
divine  plant  which  had  spning  up  at  his  feet.  The  newly  arisen 
evangelic  light  had  darted  its  rays  even  into  the  cloisters,  so 
that  here  a  glorious  movement  manifested  itself  Margaretha 
von  AVattenwyl,  in  Koenigsfeld,  (Canton  Aargau,)  wrote  to  the 
lieformer :  "  Grace  and  peace  in  Christ  Jesus  be  ever  granted 
you  from  God  the  Father.  ^ly  prayer  to  your  reverence  is,  not 
to  be  displeased  with  my  simple  epistle ;  for  Christian  love  has 
moved  me  to  write  it,  hearing  as  I  did  how,  through  your  preach- 
ing of  the  Word,  evangelical  truth  and  doctrine  daily  increase. 
Therefore  I  give  thanks  to  the  Almighty  and  Eternal  God  that 
He  hath  again  enlightened  us,  and  by  His  Spirit  sent  so  many 
true  teachers  and  ambassadors  of  His  Holy  Word.  I  pray  and 
beseech  Him  that  He  may  grant  strength  and  might  to  you,  and 
all  who  proclaim  His  divine  Word,  that  His  divine  Word  may 
more  and  more  increase  in  all  men."  Albrecht  von  Sandenberg, 
Comthur  of  the  CJerman  order  of  Kceiiitz,  near  Berne,  was  like- 
wise illuminated  by  a  ray  from  the  gospel.  Having  scruples, 
however,  whether  he  would  be  justified  in  abandoning  his  posi- 
tion, and  breaking  his  vow,  he  expressed  his  douljts  to  Zwingli 
in  a  letter,  begging  liim  to  instruct  and  counsel  liim  as  to  what 
he  ought  to  do.  Zwingli  answered  him :  "  Almost  all  the  abuses 
in  the  Church  come  from  the  neglect  of  the  doctruie  of  Christ; 
for  it  is  indeed  no  wonder  that  men  should  fall  into  gross  errors 
when  they  abandon  the  light,  and  love  the  darkness.  God  is 
bound  to  no  town,  neither  to  Jerusalem  nor  liome,  but  He  is 
everywhere.  All  those  who  represent  Him  as  being  present  only 
in  certain  circumscribed  localities  are  false  Christians,  nay,  anti- 
Christians.  Tlierefore  it  appears  to  me  a  bad  design  to  conquer 
Jerusalem  again  by  force  of  arms.  Jerusalem,  as  it  now  is,  is  to 
my  mind  a  weighty  proof  for  the  truth  of  tlie  gosjjol;  for  so 
Christ  prophesied  beforehand,  'Jerusalem  will  l)e  trodden  down 


170  RELATION  TO  THE  NEW  EVANGELICAL  MOVEMENT. 

of  the  Gentiles,  till  the  times  of  the  Gentiles  be  fulfilled.'  (Luke 
xxi.  24.)  Behold!  the  Gentiles  are  now  there.  AVliy  shall  we 
levy  war  to  drive  them  out,  seeing  that  God  has  otherwise  deter- 
mined ?  Your  order  sets  before  it  the  reconquering  and  holding 
of  Jerusalem.  I  know  not  a  shadow  of  foundation  in  reason  or 
Scripture  for  such  a  design.  Yet  here  something  must  be  allowed 
to  the  times,  it  being  at  one  time  held,  in  the  vain  conceit  of 
human  wisdom,  as  a  great  service  done  to  God  to  protect  or  to 
retake  such  holy  places.  It  is,  however,  but  a  vain  conceit,  as 
above  said.  Man  fancies  that  God  is  especially  honoured  by  orders, 
companies,  sects ;  but  Christ  says,  '  In  vain  they  do  worship  me, 
teaching  for  doctrines  the  commandments  of  men.'  (Matt.  xv.  9.) 
AVliat  are  orders?  Human  inventions.  Here  the  objection  does 
not  hold  good:  If  one  man  promises  to  another  anything,  he  is 
bound  to  perform  it.  Undoubtedly;  but  you  must  keep  your 
word  to  God  as  well  as  to  man,  and  you  ought  to  do  only  that 
which  is  well-pleasing  to  God,  else  when  you  vow  to  God  that 
which  He  does  not  desire,  it  may  be  said  to  you,  'Wlio  hath 
required  this  at  your  hand?'  (Isaiah  i.  12.)  There  is  nothing  more 
contrary  to  the  will  of  God  than  sects,  companies,  orders,  distinc- 
tions; it  therefore  becomes  every  man  at  all  seasons  to  break 
loose  from  what  is  displeasing  to  God,  and  lay  hold  on  the  free 
grace  of  God.  I  leave  it  here  with  you.  Do  as  God  commands, 
only  do  nothing  which  can  give  just  ground  of  offence  or  disturb- 
ance to  any  one.  AVe  must  not  only  leave  a  small  temporal  estate 
for  God,  but  even  the  whole  world.  Farewell,  and  may  God  guide 
you." 

The  gospel  penetrated  into  the  Carthusian  monastery  of  Ittin- 
gen  (Canton  Thurgau),  and  the  desire  awoke  in  several  monks 
for  farther  light  and  instruction.  Three  Carthusian  friars  of  this 
cloister,  unknown  to  each  other,  applied  to  Zwingli,  and  opened 
to  him  their  hearts,  vnih  the  request  he  would  instruct  and  advise 
them.  The  brother  Valentin  de  Saxonia  addressed  him  in  the 
following  strain :  "  Often  I  speak  with  you  and  you  with  me, 
dear  Huldreich,  my  glory  and  my  hope,  and  yet  we  are  personally 
unknown  to  each  other.  Does  not  that  look  like  an  idle  tale  ? 
And  yet  it  is  no  idle  tale,  but  a  fact  that  repeats  itself  daily. 
Whose  heart  is  not  filled  to  its  innermost  recesses  with  Zwingli  ? 
whom  does  he  not  instruct  ?  whom  does  lie  not  infiuence  ?     I 


RELATION  TO  THE  NEAV  EVANGELICAL  MOVEMENT.  l7l 

speak  ui'  tliu.se  who  luvc  tlie  truth.  For  I  ivjoice,  that  to  the 
other  gifts  of  Christ  this  also  must  be  counted  to  you,  that  you 
displease  many,  l)y  which  test  alone  1  am  wont  to  distinguisli 
proofs  of  God's  gcjodness  from  those  of  His  anger.  1  wish  you 
God-speed,  because  while  you  give  the  highest  satisfaction  to 
the  good,  you  displease  all  tlio.se  who  would  raise  themselves 
upon  the  necks  of  others,  and  Avho  require  from  them  undivided 
homage  and  submission."  Disturbed  in  his  conscience  as  to 
whether  monkery  was  in  accordance  with  Scripture,  and  whether 
its  riches  were  honestly  come  by,  and  uncertain  whether  he  should 
go  or  remain,  he  prays  Zwingli,  for  the  love's  sake  which  moved 
the  Father  to  send  His  Son  from  heaven  to  earth,  to  give  him 
eidightenment  and  instruction  on  monkery,  vows,  tithes,  the 
Mass,  &c.,  &c.  "  Shall  I  leave  the  order,  lay  aside  the  monk's 
dress,  and  earn  my  support  by  the  labour  of  my  hands,  or  what 
shall  I  do?  Is  one  ratlier  to  expose  himself  to  death  and  tem- 
poral punishment  than  in  this  way  to  be  a  monk,  namely,  to  live 
according  to  the  mere  doctrines  of  men,  to  get  food  and  clothing 
from  an  unrighteous  calling,  and  to  go  idle  every  day  ?  You  will 
much  oblige  me  if  you  will  instnict  me  liy  letter  in  this  matter. 
The  Lord  Jesus,  my  dear  Fluldreich,  keep  thee  ever."  Jodocus 
Hesch,  of  the  same  monastery,  was  not  so  far  advanced  in  evan- 
gelical doctrine,  yet  he  too  found  himself  moved  to  open  his  heart 
to  Zwingli.  "  God,"  says  he,  "  my  conscience,  and  the  whole  com- 
munity to  whom  I  have  hitherto  preached,  are  my  witnesses 
how  truly  and  faithfully  I  preach  the  gospel ;  what  heed  I  take 
to  say  nothing  injurious  either  to  true  piety,  or  that  may  cause 
disturbance,  and  create  a  factious  spirit,  or  that  may  injure  the 
name  of  a  good  man ;  how  anxious  I  am  not  to  draw  the  doctrines 
of  Scripture  from  the  nearest  standing-pool  but  from  the  .source 
itself."  He  expresses  his  judgment  of  Zwingli  with  great  candour : 
"You  have  gifts  from  which  Helvetia  must  expect  evcrvihing:  an 
ardent,  lively,  sensible  and  manly  understanding,  a  retentive 
quick  memory',  a  vei-satile  intellect,  skilled  in  lore,  human  and 
divine,  a  pleasing  fluent  delivery,  eloquent  langiiage.  For  these 
accomplishments.  I  should  rate  you  not  alone  as  the  sole  remain- 
ing glory  of  Zurich,  but  of  the  whole  of  Switzerland,  if  there 
were  united  to  the.se  ])urity  of  doctrine  and  agi-eenient  with  the 
opinions  of  the  orthodox  Fatliei-s  of  the  Church,  and  with  the 


172  RELATION  TO  THE  NEW  EVANGELICAL  MOVEMENT. 

customs  of  antiquity."  He  tlien  relates  the  story  of  his  life,  and 
how  after  the  loss  of  his  excellent  spouse  in  his  28th  year,  he 
became  a  Carthusian,  and  that  he  had  not  once  repented  of  this 
step,  and  he  closes  this  self-confession  with  the  prayer:  "Lord 
see  this  my  resolve,  which  Thou  thyself  hast  inspired ;  let  my 
pilgrimage  be  well  pleasing  in  Thy  sight,  and  guide  my  erring 
steps  in  the  way  of  salvation.  Grant,  0  Lord,  to  me,  unworthy, 
that  Thou  mayest  stand  by  me  on  the  day  of  my  departure  and 
the  hour  of  death.  Ah,  Lord  God,  remember  not  my  transgres- 
sions and  my  sins,  but  receive  my  spirit  in  Thy  great  mercy  when 
it  leaves  this  body.  Enter  not  into  judgment  with  Thine  unworthy 
and  sinful  servant.  Grant,  finally,  that  this  soul,  the  work  of 
Thy  hands,  may  never  be  taken  by  pride  or  vain  conceit,  or  bow 
under  the  sceptre  of  the  enemy  of  mankind,  or,  becoming  a  prey 
to  unclean  spirits,  be  made  the  sport  of  hungry  dogs.  Therefore, 
I  beg  of  thee,  0  merciful  Jesus,  by  the  love  with  which  Thou 
embracest  the  whole  human  race,  and  which  moved  Thee  to 
descend  from  heaven  to  earth,  and  to  take  upon  Thyself  the  frail 
nature  of  man,  to  expose  Thyself  to  hunger,  thirst,  frost,  heat, 
trials,  mockery  and  scorn,  blows  and  stripes,  and,  at  last,  the 
death  of  the  cross  ;  by  this  love,  I  beg  Thee,  Jesus,  my  Saviour, 
turn  Thine  eye  from  my  sins  when  I  appear  before  Thy  judg- 
ment-seat, to  which  I  daily  feel  myself  called.  Punish  me  not 
for  my  trespasses  and  my  guilt,  but  pardon  me  in  the  merits  of 
the  cross.  Thy  dearest  blood,  Jesus,  which  Thou  hast  poured  out 
on  the  altar  of  our  atonement  for  the  redemption  of  mankind,  be 
the  payment  and  satisfaction  for  my  guilt.  You  know  now, 
my  Zwingii,  my  life  and  character,  which  I  have  here  j^ainted 
with  truthful  strokes,  from  whence  you  may  easily  conclude 
whether  I  have  taken  the  monk's  dress  at  the  inspiration  and 
command  of  God  or  of  Satan."  This  upright  sincere  heart,  in 
which  the  grace  of  God  had  began  to  work  thus  mightily,  could 
not  long  remain  satisfied  with  half-measures.  Hesch,  after  he 
had  been  farther  illuminated  by  the  Spirit  of  God,  and  instructed 
by  Zwingii,  decided  afterwards  unconditionally  for  the  Eeforma- 
tion.  With  a  like  sincerity,  the  brother  Alexius,  of  the  same 
monastery,  applied  to  Zwingii,  begging  of  him  advice  and  instruc- 
tion. The  Abbot  James  Eussinger  of  Pfseffers,  was  also  won  by 
Zwingii  to  the  gospel,  and  advanced  to  the  utmost  of  his  power 


LABOURS  ON  BEHALF  OF  EVANGELICAL  TRUTH.      173 

the  preaching  of  it.  in  tlie  inoniisteiy  of  Wettiiigen,  Zwingli 
had  also  friends ;  and  the  Abbot  George  Mueller  arrayed  himself 
openly,  along  with  a  great  number  of  liis  monks,  on  the  side  of 
the  Reformation. 

Thus  burned  the  flame  of  gospel  truth,  fanned  by  Zwdngli, 
cleansing  and  purifying  many  a  heart  and  conscience,  corrupted 
and  debased  by  monastic  observances,  and  groaning  under  the 
yoke  of  human  doctrines  and  traditions,  handed  down  from  cen- 
turies, and  from  which  it  might  almost  have  appeai'ed  impossible 
to  free  them,  lint  neither  cloisters  nor  foundations  were  to  be 
the  means  of  extending  and  supporting  the  gospel  in  the  different 
districts  of  Switzerland ;  God  had  chosen  another  and  far  mightier 
instrument  for  this  purpose,  which  came  infinitely  nearer  the 
hearts  and  consciences  of  the  people.  This  means  was  the 
dissemination  of  the  Holy  Scriptures  in  the  mother-tongue. 
Zwingli  says:  "  Every  peasant's  cottage  became  a  school,  in  which 
the  highest  art  of  all  was  practised — the  reading  of  the  Old  and 
New  Testament ;  for  the  right  and  true  schoolmaster  of  His  people 
is  God,  without  wdiom  all  languages  and  all  arts  are  but  nets  of 
deception  and  treachery.  Every  cow  and  goose-herd  became 
thereby  better  instructed  in  the  knowledge  of  salvation  than  the 
schoolmen."  The  friends  of  the  Eeformer,  by  adopting  his  hints, 
and  drawing  encouragement  from  his  zeal  and  example,  extended 
this  glorious  evangelical  movement  iu  the  towns  and  valleys  of 
Switzerland. 

Let  us  now,  inZwingli's  circular  letters  to  the  different  cantons, 
and  to  his  fellow-labourers  in  the  work  of  the  gospel,  take  a  closer 
inspection  of  his  great  apostolic  heart,  w^hich  beat  so  strongly  for 
the  weal  of  the  Church  of  his  native  country,  and  the  implanting 
and  extension  of  evangelical  truth  within  its  borders. 


2.  ZwiNGLi's  Zealous  Labours  for  the  Extension  and 
Establishment  of  Evangelical  Truth  and  Doctrine  in 
THE  Cantons  of  East  Switzerland. 

In  the  Canton  Glarus,  Zwingli's  scholai*s  and  friends  in  the 
love  of  the  truth,  preached  the  gospel,  and  carri('<l  on  with  all 
fidelity  the  work  he  himself  had  begun  there, — Valentin  Tschudi, 


17-i       LABOUES  ON  BEHALF  OF  EVANGELICAL  TEUTH. 

in  the  town  of  Glarus,  Fridolin  Brunner  in  Mollis,  and  John 
Schindler  in  Schwanden.  Zwingii  dedicated  the  "  Exposition  and 
Proof  of  his  Propositions"  to  the  honourable  but  cautious  and 
sagacious  Amman,  and  to  the  Council  and  community  of  Glarus. 
He  addresses  his  old  parishioners  in  the  following  terms,  under 
date  14th  July  1523:  "No  man  in  our  days  can  withstand  the 
Word  of  God :  for  wherever  it  is  heard,  it  penetrates  with  irresist- 
ible force,  and  it  is  accepted  even  where  it  is  prohibited.  '  The 
kingdom  of  God  is  preached,  and  every  man  presseth  into  it,' 
Luke  xvi.  16.  For  the  faith  that  dwells  within  the  heart  is  not 
always  to  be  seen  on  the  surface.  Thus  it  follows,  that  the 
preachers  are  often  persecuted  externally,  while  faith  in  Christ 
sits  securely  in  the  bosoms  of  the  people ;  it  is  like  the  leaven, 
which  penetrates  where  it  exists.  It  is  even  so  wdth  the  true 
believer:  he  is  conscious  of  his  salvation,  of  his  peace  and  joy — 
he  bears  them  about  wdth  him  continually,  and  cannot  bear  that 
his  neighbour  be  ignorant  of  this  joy  and  this  salvation,  as  in 
other  affairs  it  is  wont  to  be  the  case ;  he  is  fired  with  a  holy  zeal 
to  publish  the  good  news,  and  communicate  it  to  others  that  they 
may  share  it  with  himself  Such  is  the  difference  between  the 
Spirit  of  God,  the  alone  teacher  of  the  faith,  and  our  flesh,  which 
is  ever  selfish.  Thus  the  believer  has  no  rest  as  long  as  he  sees 
his  brother  in  unbelief  Wherefore,  it  is  evident  that  the  Word 
of  God  is  irresistible.  It  would  be  in  vain,  then,  for  your  wor- 
ships to  take  measures  against  it:  for  God  would  put  you  to 
shame.  It  is,  indeed,  true  that  the  Word  of  God  fights  against 
all  men,  because  we  are  all  sinners ;  while  it,  on  the  contrary, 
is  altogether  free  from  earthly  dross,  yea,  purer  than  silver  and 
gold,  seven  times  purified.  It  is  thus  no  wonder  that  those  who 
would  spare  their  sins  reject  it,  crying,  '  Preach  what  pleases  us,' 
Isaiah  xxx.  10,  '  prophesy  unto  us  smooth  things.'  Yet  upon 
such  conduct  cometh  unexpectedly  the  severest  punishment: 
'  Therefore,'  says  the  prophet,  '  this  iniquity  shall  be  to  you  as  a 
breach  ready  to  fall,  swelling  out  in  a  high  wall,  whose  breaking 
cometh  suddenly  at  an  instant.'  Therefore,  suffer,  most  dear  and 
gracious  lords,  that  the  doctrine  of  Christ  be  not  put  away  from 
you,  as  though  it  were  some  new  invention.  It  shoots  forward 
in  our  days  with  a  light  as  clear  and  bright  as  in  the  times  of 
the  apostles.     Let  the  Word  of  God  be  purely  preached  among 


LABOURS  ON  BEHALF  OF  EVANGELICAL  TRUTH.  1 7-) 

you ;  God  will  protect  you.  Take  heed  that  ye  he  not  the  last 
in  the  Confederacy  to  receive  His  Word,  that  we  have  recovered 
and  reconquered.  Your  teachers  will,  without  doubt,  shew  you 
where  the  knot  lies.  See  that  ye  give  ear  to  them,  for  they  can 
instruct  you  in  the  truth.  Eeflect,  there  is  no  people  on  earth 
whom  Christian  freedom  better  becomes  than  the  Confederacy; 
none  to  whom  greater  peace  and  richer  blessings  may  be  secured. 
Keep  God  and  his  Word  before  your  eyes,  and  He  will  in  no 
wise  forsake  you.  He  w^ill  keep  you  according  to  His  will  in  His 
grace  and  favour.  Amen.  I  recommend  to  you  your  ministers, 
Valeutin  Tschudi  at  Glarus,  Fridolin  Brunuer  at  Mollis,  John 
Schindler  at  Schwanden,  and  Gregory  Binzli*  at  Wesen,  who 
faithfully  proclaim  the  gospel."  These  words  of  the  Eeformer 
to  his  former  parishioners,  decided  the  cause  of  the  Eeformation 
with  the  greater  part  of  the  Glarians. 

Tlie  joyful  tidings  of  the  newly  proclaimed  evangelical  truth 
had  also  pierced  to  Zwingli's  native  vale  to  Toggenburg,  and  had 
met  with  a  warm  reception  from  his  fellow-villagers.  Zwingli 
regarded  with  peculiar  joy  the  progress  of  gospel  truth  in  this 
district,  to  which  his  heart  was  knit  by  the  associations  of  youth, 
and  by  many  ties  of  blood  and  friendship.  Animated  by  these 
feelings,  he  sent  a  letter  "  To  an  honourable  Council,  and  to  the 
whole  community  of  his  native  county  of  Toggenburg,"  just  at  the 
moment  in  which  they  were  to  decide  whether  they  should  receive 
the  newly  proclaimed  evangelical  truth  or  remain  by  the  old 
papistical  doctrine.  Tlie  following  passages  we  extract  from  this 
letter,  distinguished  for  their  vigour  and  holy  zeal :  "  1  praise 
and  thank  God  who  has  called  me  to  the  preaching  of  His 
gospel,  that  He  has  led  you,  who  are  so  dear  to  my  heart,  out  of 
the  Eg}'ptian  darkness  of  false  human  doctrines  to  the  wondrous 
light  of  His  Word.  Now  that  we  areenlightened  by  the  same, 
so  that  we  recognise  the  truth,  is  it  not  astonishing  we  can  be 
so  blind  as  not  to  perceive  the  temptations  of  the  devil  and  the 
flesh,  which  manifest  themselves  so  openly  before  our  eyes?  All 
this  God  hath  ordered  that  we  may  more  clearly  recognise  His 
power  and  grace,  and,  on  the  other  hand,  our  own  sinfulness, 

*  Gregory  Binzli  is  Zwingli's  teacher,  formerly  mentioned,  at  the  Theodoric 
School  in  Basic. 

t  On  Monday  after  Margaretha,  15th  July  1524. 


176  LABOURS  ON  BEHALF  OF  EVANGELICAL  TRUTH. 

blindness  and  guilt.  Has  not  that  been  a  great  blindness  that 
we,  although  the  Almighty  God  who  hath  created  ns  hath  so  oft 
and  in  so  many  ways  revealed  himself  that  he  is  our  Father, 
and  who  at  length  hath  given  His  own  Son  to  die  for  us,  who 
likewise  stands  there  and  calls  to  us  poor  sinners  :  '  Come  unto 
me  all  ye  that  labour  and  are  heavy  laden,  and  I  will  give  you 
rest ;'  is  it  not  great  blindness  that  we,  nevertheless,  have  gone 
and  turned  ourselves  to  the  creature,  and  thought  God  to  be  so 
hard  and  cruel  that  we  dare  not  come  unto  Him  ?  And  though 
we  have  called  him  Father,  yet  we  have  not  done  it  in  the  Spirit 
of  Christ,  for  we  have  not  recognised  the  mystery  of  His  grace  in 
giving  His  Son  to  die  for  us,  and  have  ascribed  salvation  not  to 
the  grace  of  God,  but  to  our  own  works,  polluted,  worldly-minded, 
selfish  and  foolish  though  they  are.  But  that  has  been  done, 
that  we  might  the  better  know  and  learn  God  and  ourselves. 
Ourselves,  since  we  see  that  all  our  power  and  wisdom  is  nought, 
is  of  no  significance,  of  no  avail,  but  that  at  the  very  moment 
when  we  fancy  ourselves  to  be  strong  and  wise,  God  lets  us  sink 
into  despair,  helplessness,  and  blindness.  For  He  will  that  His 
Word  alone  be  obeyed,  and  that  the  life  be  regulated  by  it  alone. 
So  now  in  our  days  that  the  light  of  His  Word  hath  displayed 
itseK  to  such  a  degree  that  we  therein  can  see  the  treacherous 
dark  lies  of  Satan,  the  works  of  darkness  will  not  come  to  the 
light  but  cry  out  against  it.  And  when  they  can  effect  nothing 
against  the  truth  openly,  they  take  to  their  old  arts,  and  lay 
secret  snares  for  its  preachers,  endeavouring  to  ruin  them  by  lies 
and  false  witness.  Therefore,  ye  have  acted  in  a  wise  and 
Christian  manner,  that  ye  have  not  let  the  preachers  of  the  Word 
be  imprisoned,  tormented  and  slain,  at  the  complaint  and  desire 
of  every  one,  against  all  justice.  I  write  this,  not  as  if  I  were 
concerned  for  the  temporal  life  of  the  evangelical  preachers,  (for 
their  lives  are  alone  in  the  hand  of  God,)  but  that  your  hands 
may  be  clean  from  such  misdeeds.  If  Christ  has  been  sub- 
jected to  false  accusation  from  wicked  priests.  His  disciples 
are  taught  by  Him  steadfastly  to  endure  the  same.  But  woe  to 
those  who  commit  such  things.  Therefore  see  to  it  that  the 
Word  of  God  be  faithfully  preached  among  you,  and  without 
additions.  But  above  all,  see  to  it  that  it  be  obeyed.  For  the 
name  of  God  is  blasphemed  by  those  who  give  themselves  out 


LABOURS  ON  BEHALF  OF  EVANGELICAL  TRUTH.  177 

as  Cbvistiniis,  nml  who  liv^e  not  as  Christians.  Therefore  let  all 
speak  before  Clod  and  his  neighbonr  tlie  truth;  let  your  speech 
be  yea,  yea,  and  nay,  nay.  For  thus  will  you  serve  God  in  spirit 
and  in  truth.  Abandon  all  blasphemy,  intemperance,  gambling, 
fornication,  adultery,  and  mercenary  warfare,  help  the  poor,  pro- 
tect the  wronged  and  the  oppressed,  lie^ilate  your  whole  lives 
according  to  the  divine  Word,  and  set  your  consolation  and  tnist 
alone  in  the  Almighty.  I  should  have  often  written  to  you,  if 
two  causes  had  not  hindered  me.  Firstly,  because  my  enemies 
would  immediately  have  cried  out,  I  was  seeking  human  aid 
and  consolation  by  you,  which,  God  be  praised,  I  can  well  dis- 
pense with,  on  the  one  hand,  because  the  pious  in  Zurich  have 
not  suffered  any  injustice  to  be  done  me,  and  on  the  other, 
because  I  would  rather  have  the  might  of  God  to  be  seen,  and 
was  unwilling  to  cast  pearls  before  swine.  But  where  a  door  is 
opened  to  the  gospel  I  take  not  holiday.  Secondly,  because, 
willing  as  I  have  ever  been  to  preach  the  gospel  in  the  place  of 
my  birth,  I  have  been  always  hindered  from  it.  Be  now  intrepid 
and  undismayed  JNIay  God,  who  has  chosen  you  to  walk  in 
His  light,  increase  it  to  you  more  and  more,  that  ye  may  grow 
in  His  gi'ace,  and  that  His  name  may  be  sanctified  and  glorified 
by  you,  and  that  after  the  misery  of  this  life  ye  may  have  joy  at 
His  right  hand  for  evermore.  Amen.  Let  not  yourselves  be 
misled  by  the  wicked  lies  and  strange  stories  that  are  told  of  me. 
The  powers  of  darkness  are  always  busy  at  this  work.  But  as 
for  me,  I  will,  by  God's  grace,  so  teach  and  i)reach  that  nothing 
else  shall  be  found  in  me  but  a  doctrine  in  conformity  with  His 
Holy  Word.  Every  talker  may  call  me  heretic,  but  I  know 
the  devil  cannot  make  me  out  one  with  you." 

Tliis  manly  Christian  epistle  decided  the  victoiy  of  the  gospel 
in  the  Beformers  native  valley.  The  Council  and  the  community 
in  the  same  summer,  152-i,  caused,  through  delegates,  their  will 
to  be  published  to  the  assembled  clergy,  "  that  the  Word  of  (Jod 
be  preached  with  one  accord."  The  Abbot  of  St.  (Jail,  indeed,  in 
union  with  the  Bishop  of  Chur,  sought  to  persecute  its  preachei-s. 
Three  evangelical  clergymen,  Melitus  von  Watt\^yl,  Doering  ab 
dem  Hendjerg,  and  Farer  von  Stein,  were  accused  by  the  abbot 
before  the  Chapter  of  disoliedience.  They  answered  quite  in 
the  spirit  of  Zwingli :   "  Convince  us  by  the  Word  of  God,  and 

M 


178  LABOURS  ON  BEHALF  OF  EVANGELICAL  TEUTH. 

we  shall  submit  ourselves,  not  only  to  tlie  Chapter,  but  to  the 
least  of  our  brethren  in  Christ,  but  in  the  contraiy  case,  we  shall 
obey  none,  not  even  the  mightiest  potentate."  They  appealed, 
moreover,  to  the  instructions  of  the  Council,  to  preach  from  this 
time  forward  the  Word  of  God,  and  this  only  had  they  done. 
The  accusers  were  obliged  to  return  home  without  effecting 
anything. 

The  follo\ving  occurrence  appeared  likely  to  be  one  of  greater 
moment: — On  St.  Catherine's  day  (2oth  November)  of  the  same 
year,  a  county  meeting  was  held  at  Lichtensteig,  before  which 
two  deputies  from  Sclnvytz  appeared  in  a  case  of  hereditary  suc- 
cession. At  dinner  one  of  the  deputies  called  out,  "Magister 
Huldreich  Zwingli  is  a  thief  and  a  heretic."  Henry  Steiger, 
the  town-clerk,  indignant  at  this  calumny  of  his  esteemed  country- 
man, immediately  demanded  a  retraction  of  the  insulting  lan- 
guage. If  not  done  he  would  prosecute  at  law.  In  the  mean- 
time, a  near  relative  of  Zwingii's,  George  Bruggman,  who  hap- 
pened to  be  sitting  at  another  table,  got  word  of  the  calumnious 
speech,  and  rising  in  great  wrath,  with  some  other  of  Zwingii's 
friends,  was  on  the  point  of  taking  vengeance  by  some  act  of 
violence.  It  was  only  with  difficulty  that  the  Council,  which 
was  now  assembled  on  the  open  market-place,  could  prevent 
matters  coming  to  such  an  extremity.  This  they  at  length 
effected  by  adopting  Bruggman's  declaration,  "Magister  Hul- 
dreich is  a  pious,  excellent,  honest  man,  and  whoever  says  the 
contrary,  is  a  liar,  vOlain,  and  thief"  Upon  this  decision  being 
come  to  by  the  Council,  the  Schwyzer  delegates,  boiling  with 
passion,  rode  off  homewards,  and  set  their  whole  canton  in  move- 
ment against  the  inhabitants  of  Toggenburg,  for  the  disgrace  to 
which  they  had  been  subjected.  But  the  Toggenburgians,  above 
all  the  men  of  Wildhaus,  swore  to  stand  by  Zwingli  to  the  last. 
Thus  this  storm  Kkewise  passed  away  without  any  farther  and 
more  serious  consequences  resulting  from  it,  and  without  damage 
to  the  gospel.  Zwingli  could,  in  June  1525,  write  again  to  an 
honourable  Council,  and  to  the  community  of  the  county  of  Tog- 
genburg in  general :  '*  I  thank  God,  our  heavenly  Father,  that 
He  hath  enlightened  you  by  the  light  of  His  Word,  and  hath 
introduced  you  thus  into  the  knowledge  of  the  truth,  so  that  you 
continue  steadfast  in  your  confession  of  it,  which,  however,  comes 


LABOURS  ON  BEHALF  OF  EVANGELICAL  TKUTH.      17f) 

all  I'roiii  His  ^'nice  aiul  nu'rcy,  and  not  IVoni  your  wi.sdctni.  'JY) 
Him  be  everlasting  praise  and  gioiy.  May  He  from  liencefortli 
encompass  you  with  the  shield  of  His  defence  and  protection, 
that  you  may  increase  more  and  more  in  all  that  is  good. 
Amen." 

Tu  the  neighhouring  ])leasant  hill  country  of  Appenzell,  iln^ 
glad  news  of  salvation  and  the  morning  light  of  the  lleformation 
were  likewise  haik'd  by  many  with  joy.  A  zealous  pioneer  of  the 
faith  in  this  (juarter  was  James  Schurtanner,  minister  in  Teufen. 
Zwingli  wrote  to  him  (JNIarch  1524):  "Be  manly  and  firm,  dear 
James,  and  let  not  yourself  be  overcome,  tliat  you  may  Ijc  called 
Israel.  "We  must  cont(Mid  with  the  foe  till  the  day  dawn,  and  till 
the  morning-star  arise  in  our  hearts,  (2  IVt.  i  1 9,)  and  the  powers 
of  darkness  hide  themselves  in  their  own  black  night.  I  say  this 
to  you,  not  as  though  I  doubted  you  would  give  up  the  contest, 
but  to  encourage  you,  in  that  you  hear  how  your  zealous  diligence 
is  a  balsam  of  life  to  believers.  For  God  is  my  witness,  that  my 
heart  leapt  for  joy  when  we  heard  that  the  pious  people  of  Appen- 
zell  had  received  the  Word  of  God.  I  should  have  been  anxious, 
too,  to  have  heard  of  their  confirmation  and  establishment 
therein,  did  I  not  know  the  faith,  truth,  and  love  which  you  have 
towards  God.  AVith  these  I  doubt  not  you  will  finish  the  good 
work  which  God  has  begun  in  them.  It  is  to  be  hoped  that 
although  their  canton  is  the  last  in  the  order  of  the  Confederacy,* 
it  will  not  be  the  last  in  the  faith.  For  these  people  dwell  not 
in  the  centre  of  a  fertile  country,  where  the  danger's  of  selfishness 
and  pleasure  are  greatest,  but  in  a  mountam  district,  where  a 
pious  simplicity  can  be  better  preserved ;  which  guileless  simpli- 
city, joined  to  an  intelligent  piety,  affords  the  best  and  surest 
abiding-place  for  faith.  Christian  doctrine  and  Christian  prac- 
tice can  be  nowhere  more  easily  planted  than  among  a  people 
imschooled  in  the  deceitful  arts  of  the  world.  Not  as  though  I 
meant  that  intellect  and  wisdom  were  awanting  in  the  pious 
Appenzellers,  but  their  simple  faithful  lives  shew  us  somewhat 
of  the  old  Confederate,  so  that  the  Word  of  God  will,  without 
doubt,  train  among  them  a  pious  and  CJod-fearing  race,  who  will 

♦  Appenzell  joined  the  Swiss  league  in  1513,  ami  was  tlic  last  in  order  of  the 
so-ralled  oKl  caut<)n.«i. 


180      LABOURS  ON  BEHALF  OF  EVANGELICAL  TRUTH. 

extirpate  that  selfish  spirit  among  us,  which,  as  brother  Klaus  of 
Unterwalden*  predicts,  is  waxing  deadly.  For  where  it  spreads  its 
rank  weeds,  no  good  regiment  can  exist.  Wlierefore,  take  care,  as 
heretofore,  of  your  children,  whom  you  have  begotten  in  the  faith, 
and  train  them  so  that  neither  flattery  nor  threats  may  have  the 
power  to  turn  them  from  sound  doctrine.  Defend  yourself  well 
against  the  teeth  of  voracious  wolves,  and  let  them  not  tear  your 
sheep  from  you.  Bear  yourself  like  a  man  of  God,  and  may 
your  heart  be  strong  in  God,  of  whose  support  you  may  be  sure. 
Salute  your  faithful  fellow-workers  in  the  gospel  of  Christ,  the 
Bishop  of  Gais,  Bernhardin,  and  all  who  hold  truly  to  God,  as, 
God  be  praised,  we  hear  the  most  of  your  bishops  do.  I  com- 
mend you  to  God,  with  all  the  people  of  Appenzell;  and  pray 
for  me  to  God  with  all  your  people." 

The  Eeformation  spread  and  strengthened  its  roots  more  and 
more,  especially  in  the  outward-lying  communities  of  Appenzell, 
in  the  direction  of  St.  Gall.  The  majority,  however,  of  the  inha- 
bitants of  the  inner  parishes,  in  the  quarter  of  Scutis,  continuing 
obstinately  by  the  old  church,  which  produced  great  bitterness 
of  feeling  between  both  parties,  it  was  resolved,  at  the  end  of  the 
sixteenth  century,  to  divide  the  canton  into  two  parts,  or  rhodes, 
according  to  the  confessions  of  faith.  Wlioever  was  papistical 
was  to  dwell  in  the  inner  rhodes ;  whoever  was  evangelical  in 
the  outer.  At  the  separation  the  Eeformed  numbered  6322,  the 
Papists  2782.  In  St.  Gall,  which  was  in  the  outer  district, 
Zwingli's  learned  friend,  already  well  known  to  us,  Dr.  Vadian, 
the  burgomaster,  was  a  principal  prop  of  evangelical  truth.  This 
burgomaster  lectured  to  his  fellow-citizens  on  the  Acts  of  the 
Apostles,  in  order  to  set  before  them  the  image  of  the  first  apos- 
tolic church.  A  contemporary  hence  said :  "  Here  in  St.  Gall  it 
is  not  only  allowed  to  hear  the  Word  of  God,  but  the  magistrates 
themselves  teach  and  preach  it."  With  Zwingli  Dr.  Vadian  kept 
up  an  uninterrupted  intercourse  of  the  most  friendly  description, 
and  the  word  of  this  friend  of  his  youth  had  always  great  weight 
with  Vadian.      Other  evangelical  men,  both  lay  and  clerical, 

*  Or  Nicolas  von  der  Fluehe,  the  well  known  hermit  of  Unterwalden,  was 
held  in  much  respect  by  Zwingli  too,  especially  as  he,  like  the  Reformer  himself, 
warned  the  Confederates  against  interfering  in  foreign  affairs,  and  exhorted 
them  to  preserve  their  ancient  pious  simplicity. 


LABOUES  ON  BEHALF  OF  EVANGELICAL  TRUTH.  1  cS  1 

formed  close  connections  with  Vadian,  and  forwarded  the  victory 
of  tlie  gospel  in  this  town,  despite  the  counteracting  influences  of 
a  hostUely  disposed  abbacy. 

But  a  stonn  that  arose  out  of  the  very  centre  of  the  new  church 
in  this  district  took  a  more  ominous  character,  and  threatened  to 
exert  highly  injurious  effects  on  the  tender  evangelical  seed  in  its 
first  growth ;  I  mean  the  fanatical  eiTors  of  the  Anabaptists.  As 
soon  as  Zwingli  saAV  the  danger,  he  raised  his  warning  voice  with 
true  apostolic  fidelity,  and  despatched  a  circular-letter  to  the 
Honourable  the  Burgomaster,  the  Council,  and  whole  community 
of  St.  Gall,  from  which  we  extract  the  following  passage  :  "Most 
honourable  and  dear  brethren  in  God,  I  deeply  lament  that  such 
a  storm  has  come  over  the  first  growth  of  the  gospel  lately 
planted  and  just  springing  up  among  you;  yet  I  am  not  sur- 
prised at  it,  it  is  the  stratagem  of  the  enemy;  wherever  God 
reveals  His  Word,  there,  too,  Satan  sows  his  tares.  We  find  also 
in  the  Epistles  of  St.  Paul,  that  some,  who  made  indeed  a  pro- 
fession of  the  faith,  but  who  had  it  not  in  their  hearts,  caused 
much  offence  by  reason  of  outward  things.  We  see  the  same  in 
our  day  also,  in  some  w^ho,  shortly  before  the  commencement  of 
Anabaptism,  loudly  preached  before  the  whole  world,  "  outward 
things  are  nothing,  they  are  of  no  avail  to  salvation ;  let  no  man 
rest  upon  them."  Here  they  spoke  the  truth,  so  far  as  it  was 
done  in  love,  and  with  measure.  The  same  men  we  see  now, 
however,  for  the  sake  of  a  mere  external  sign,  destroying  pe^ce 
among  Christians,  and  calling  those  who  contradict  them  here- 
tics and  anti-Christs,  although  their  whole  design  is  nothing  but 
to  set  up  a  heresy  of  the  worst  description, — I  mean  faction 
and  schism."  After  describing  at  some  lengd:h  the  proceedings 
and  aims  of  the  Anabaptists,  he  closes  with  the  exhortation: 
"Wherefore,  i)ious  and  honourable  sirs  and  brethren,  who  have 
already  made  yourselves  famous  by  your  worldly  wisdom  and 
industrial  pursuits,  look  well  to  it  that  in  this  time,  in  which  the 
devil  himself  sets  on  us,  seeking,  since  the  sword  of  persecution 
has  failed  in  dividing  us,  to  divide  us  iipon  questions  of  out- 
ward things,  look  well  to  it,  I  say,  that  no  man  sow  dissension 
among  you  through  the  gospel.  For  there  are  many  so-called 
Christians  who  are  just  as  much  concerned  for  their  worldly  goods 
as  your  merchants  are  for  their  wares.    Nor  nni  I  here  speaking  of 


182      LABOUKS  ON  BEHALF  OF  EVANGELICAL  TKUTH. 

those  vagabonds  who  run  about  the  country  making  a  gain  of  the 
simple.  Such  men  do  not  desire  the  Word  of  God  at  all,  but  only 
employ  it  for  their  own  base  purposes.  The  Word  of  God,  how- 
ever, is  not  vain  words  to  be  so  turned ;  it  is  spirit,  and  it  is  life. 
Be  undismayed,  perverse  Anabaptists  will  accomplish  nothing,  for 
their  cause  is  not  of  God.  Let  us  pray  God  for  one  another. 
May  He  graciously  preserve  you  all.  Amen."  As  Zwingli  pre- 
dicted, this  storm  likewise  passed  away  without  inflicting  any 
damage  on  the  infant  church,  and  to  this  favourable  result  his 
own  letter  greatly  contributed. 

To  the  mountains  and  valleys  of  High  Rhaetie  or  Graubund 
the  report  also  penetrated  of  Zwingli' s  doctrine,  as  it  is  called  in 
a  History  of  the  Eeformation*  in  this  country,  the  doctrine,  that 
in  matters  of  religion  nothing  is  to  be  believed  except  that  which 
can  be  satisfactorily  and  plainly  proved  by  Scripture,  while,  as  to 
that  which  has  no  foundation  in  the  Word  of  God,  one  man  has 
the  same  liberty  to  reject  it  as  others  have  had,  and  still  exercise,  to 
proclaim  and  establish  it.  Many  pious  souls,  continues  this  his- 
torian, in  the  three  common  unions,  welcomed  this  principle  with 
lively  joy,  and  received  it  as  clearly  proven  and  established  that 
hitherto  their  belief  had  been  shackled  by  many  things  which 
had  no  foundation  in  the  Word  of  God.  At  the  instance  of  the 
communities  themselves,  the  Diet,  the  highest  authority  in  the 
land,  met  November  1523,  at  Chur,  to  take  into  consideration 
measures  for  doing  away  with  the  grievances  and  abuses  that 
prevailed  in  the  Church.  Eighteen  articles  were  drawn  up  to 
this  effect,  and  confirmed  in  the  year  following,  of  which  we 
here  give  the  first  as  the  most  important :  "  Each  clergyman  shall, 
for  himself,  purely  and  fully  preach  the  Word  of  God  and  the  doc- 
trine of  Christ  to  his  people,  and  shall  not  mislead  them  by  the 
doctrines  of  human  invention.  Wlioever  will  not  or  cannot  fulfil 
this  official  duty  shall  be  deprived  of  his  living,  and  draw  no 
part  of  the  same."  In  virtue  of  this  decision,  the  Dean  of  St. 
Martin's,  after  a  disgraceful  confession  of  his  inability  to  preach, 
was  obliged  to  give  way  to  Zwingli's  friend,  John  Dorfmann  or 
Comander,  who  now  became  the  chief  instrument  of  the  Grau- 
bund Eeformation.     In  Chur,  he  found  the  soil  already  prepared 

*  Ahorn's  Holy  Kegencration  of  the  Evaiigelicnl  Clnuclics-  of  tlie  three  Unions, 
composed  of  the  freemen  of  High  Rhaetie. 


LABOURS  ON  BEHALF  OF  EVANGELICAL  TRUTH.      183 

for  the  seed  of  the  gospel  thi'ough  the  labours  of  Sulaiulrinus,  the 
teacher,  whom  we  have  mentioned  above  as  Zwingli's  friend. 
But  in  proportion  as  he  arose  in  the  esteem  of  the  friends  of  the 
gospel,  and  as  the  tiaith,  through  his  labours,  struck  deeper,  its 
roots  spreading  fast  over  the  hills  and  dales  of  this  mountain-land, 
in  the  same  proportion  waxed  the  animosity  of  the  Bishop  of  Chur 
and  his  party  against  the  preachers  of  the  gospel,  and,  above  all, 
against  Conuinder.  A  band  of  armed  men  must  accompany  the 
herald  of  truth  into  the  church,  and  defend  him  even  in  the  sanc- 
tuary from  insult  and  outrage.  The  same  things  happened  in  the 
country  districts,  where  more  than  forty  ecclesiastics  had  been 
gained  over  to  evangelical  truth.  The  Bishop  of  Chur  now  took 
steps  to  induce  tlie  Diet  to  inteifere  against  the  preachers  of  the 
gospel  as  heretics,  insurrectionists,  sacrilegists,  abusers  of  the 
Holy  Sacraments,  and  despisers  of  the  mass-sacriiice.  Zwingli,  on 
hearing  of  the  threatening  storm,  despatched  on  the  instant,  with 
an  apostolic  vigour,  a  circular  letter,  of  date  the  14tli  Jaimaiy 
1525,  from  which  we  extract  the  follo^\dng :  "Grace  and  peace 
from  God  the  Father !  Dear  sirs  and  brethi-en  in  the  Lord,  the 
holy  Paul  cared  not  alone  for  those  whom  he  liiid  converted  to  the 
faith,  but  for  all  the  churches,  that  is,  for  all  the  faithful,  that  no 
infidelity,  error,  or  scandal,  might  arise  among  them.  I  therefore 
trust  that  my  present  writing  to  you  will  not  be  misinteq:)reted, 
on  the  one  hand,  because  I  have  heard  how  you  have  accepted 
that  true  and  irresistible  Word  of  God,  and  have  pennitted,  in  the 
most  places,  the  free  preaching  of  the  same,  and  in  the  second 
place,  because  I  am  a  native  of  the  bishopric  of  Chur.  Now  I 
address  you  in  this  present  concerning  no  other  affair  but  that 
of  the  Evangel  of  the  Son  of  God,  in  which  God  daily  uses  me 
with  great  labour,  care,  anxiety,  contradiction,  and  opposition; 
yet  He  overcomes  always  who  is  Lord  over  all  lords.  To  Him 
be  praise  and  gloiy.  I  beg  your  worships  well  to  consider  how 
the  Papal  authority  has  taken  captive  the  "Word  of  God,  and  hid 
it  in  darkness,  whereby  the  truth  has  been  withheld  from  us,  and 
an  empty  semblance  presented  to  us  in  the  place  of  it,  whereby 
we  have  been  not  only  cozened  out  of  our  worldly  goods,  but,  as 
there  is  gi-t)und  to  fear,  have  had  our  souls'  salvation  put  in 
jeopardy.  This  is  the  more  especially  now  to  be  feared,  since 
tlie  truth  has  been  sot  in  the  light  of  day,  and  yet  many,  blinded 


184      LABOURS  ON  BEHALF  OF  EVANGELICAL  TEUTH. 

by  papistical  doctrine,  will  not  yield  obedience  to  it.  You  see 
now  how  it  stands  with  the  Popedom,  and  on  the  other  hand,  how 
glorious  and  vigorous  the  truth  everywhere  displays  itself,  so  that 
the  whole  Papal  power  can  effect  nothing  against  it,  but  has 
recourse  to  violence,  maltreatment,  lies,  and  bribery,  against  it, 
although,  God  be  praised,  it  has  not  been  able  to  overcome  even 
the  least  of  those  who  now,  for  a  considerable  time,  preach  the 
gospel.  Wherefore,  it  is  to  be  feared  that  if  the  civil  power  do 
not  protect  those  who  proclaim  the  Word,  and  who  are  able  to 
give  an  account  of  their  doctrine  out  of  that  Word,  that  God  will 
again  withdraw  His  favour  from  us,  and  allow  us  to  sink  again 
into  our  old  errors.  But  let  every  one  weigh  well  what  danger 
and  what  loss  would  arise  to  the  whole  of  Christendom,  in  body 
and  soul,  from  such  a  result.  As  it  is  now  well  known  to  me 
that  there  are  some  among  you  who  truly  and  faithfully  preach 
the  holy  and  unadulterated  Word  of  God, — in  particular,  that  hon- 
ourable, learned,  and  faitliful  man,  John  Comander, — may  the 
Lord  confirm  them  in  all  good, — I  beseech  your  worships  to  see 
to  it  that  no  violence  or  injury  be  done  to  these,  and  against  the 
Word  of  God.  Lay  the  Divine  Word  yourselves  to  heart,  as  it  is 
contained  in  the  Old  and  New  Testaments,  and  let  yourselves  in 
no  manner  be  swayed  therefrom.  Reflect  on  the  healing  and  peace 
of  the  conscience,  which  can  alone  find  rest  in  the  Word  of  God ; 
O  let  not  this  divine  medicine  be  again  snatched  from  you,  and 
let  not  the  deceiving  treacherous  word  of  any  Papal  emissary  again 
take  captive  your  conscience;  for,  as  the  prophet  Amos  saith, 
'the  lion  hath  roared,  who  will  not  fear?'  so  I  ask,  when  God 
equips  in  its  armour  and  reveals  His  Word,  who  will  not  give 
ear  to  and  obey  it?  God  does  not  reveal  His  Word  but  to  the 
very  sensible  pain  and  punislunent  of  those  who  will  not  hear  it, 
and  not  without  great  profit  in  body  and  soul  to  those  who  follow 
it.  The  terrible  destruction  of  Jerusalem  is  an  example  of  the 
first,  which  rejected  the  Word,  that  is,  the  Son  of  God;  while 
the  sparing  of  Nineveh,  because  it  turned  to  God,  is  an  example 
of  the  second.  Wlierefore,  pious,  steadfast,  wise,  and  beloved 
brethren  in  God,  let  not  yourselves  be  seduced  by  those  who  seek 
to  stir  you  up  by  secret  lies  and  calumnies  against  the  Word  of 
God  and  its  preachers,  and  those  who  obey  it,  thus  hatching 
anarchy  and  revolt  among  you.     This  is  the  devil's  work ;  he  is 


LABOUKS  ON  BEHALF  OF  EVANGELICAL  TKUTH.  185 

powerless  against  the  truth  ;  but  seizes  such  weapons  as  lying, 
confusion,  and  distraction.  May  the  God  who  hath  begun  to 
break  Popeiy  in  your  hearts,  and  to  introduce  you  into  the  know- 
ledge of  His  truth,  guide  and  strengthen  you,  that  we  may  all 
a]>pear  before  Him  with  joy  at  the  last  day.     Amen." 

This  earnest  Christian  appeal  did  not  fail  to  produce  a  power- 
ful effect  in  the  Councils  and  communities  of  the  Graubund. 
Accordingly,  when  the  Bishop  of  Chur  caused,  through  the  Aljl)ot 
of  St.  Luzi,  his  calumnious  accusation  to  be  brought  before  the 
Diet,  assembled  at  Chur  on  the  Christmas  of  1525,  against  the 
preachers  of  the  gospel,  with  the  view  of  getting  them  condennied 
without  a  hearing,  this  high  Assembly  answered  with  dignity : 
"  The  law  which  demands  that  no  one  be  condemned  unheard 
shall  also  be  observed  in  the  jtresent  instance."  John  Comander 
was  permitted  to  appear  and  defend  himself,  and  at  his  desire,  a 
religious  disputation  was  appointed  to  be  held  between  the  par- 
ties at  Hanz,  on  tlie  IStli  January  1526.  The  result  of  this 
Disputation,  at  which  Hofmeister  of  Schafthausen  appeared,  at 
Zwingli's  instigation,  although  he  was  not  allowed  to  take  a  part 
in  it,  was,  tliat  seven  mass-priests  publicly  went  over  to  and 
embraced  the  gospel,  and  that  the  Diet  issued  an  ordinance  declar- 
ing beth  religions  in  the  three  Unions  to  be  free,  and  requiring  that 
the  clergy  of  both  parties  should  abstain  from  reciprocal  invec- 
tives and  abuse,  and  preach  nothing  except  what  could  be  proven 
on  good  gi'ounds  from  the  Word  of  God,  Thus  evangelical  truth 
gained  a  victoiy  in  this  canton  likewise.  "  Christ  waxed  strong 
eveiysvhere  in  these  mountains,"  writes  Salondrinus  to  Zwingli, 
"  like  the  tender  grass  in  spring,"  and  the  evangelical  pastors,  like 
fountains  of  living  water,  refreshed  mountain  and  vale. 

Thus,  on  the  gospel's  gaining,  after  a  protracted  contest,  the 
victoiy  over  the  papacy  in  Schall  hausen,  through  the  labours  of 
Zwingli's  friends,  Sebastian  Wagner,  called  Hofmeister,  Sebastian 
Hofmann,  and  J]rasmus  Hitter,  and  on  the  Keformation's  being 
fairly  set  up  after  the  model  of  Zurich,  in  1529,  it  might  be  said 
that  the  iiUiabitants  of  the  whole  of  Eastern  Switzerland  in  their 
great  majority  rejoiced  in  the  light  of  gospel  truth,  and  drank  of 
the  rich  consolations  Mhich  it  affords. 


186        INFLUENCE  ON  THE  VICTOKY  OF  THE  REFOEMATION. 


3,  ZwiNGLi's  Influence  on  the  Victory  of  the  Eeformation 
IN  the  Canton  of  Berne,  and  in  the  other  Cantons  of 
Western  Switzerland  ;  his  Eelations  to  Farel. 

The  question  whether  the  gospel  or  popery  shoiikl  hold  sway 
over  the  heart  and  conscience  in  Western  Switzerland,  depended 
for  its  solution  on  the  course  which  the  government  and  people 
of  Berne  might  adopt.  We  have  seen  above  with  what  earnest- 
ness Zwingli  exhorted  his  friend  Berchtold  Haller  to  carry  on  the 
work  of  the  gospel,  that  the  crown  of  life  might  not  fail  him. 
Between  Zwingli  and  his  evangelical  friends  in  Berne,  Haller, 
Kolb,  Meier,  and  others,  there  existed  an  uninterrupted  spiritual 
intercourse.  Every  anxiety  which  distressed  the  latter,  every 
doubt  and  uncertainty  which  disturbed  them,  every  hope  which 
cheered  and  gladdened  them,  the  Bernese  communicated  without 
reserve  to  their  esteemed  friend  and  guide  in  Zurich.  AVillingly 
as  Zwingli  responded  to  their  requests  for  the  solution  of  difficult 
scriptural  passages  or  doctrines,  he  felt  liimseK  called  upon  in 
liumility  to  warn  them  not  to  place  too  great  reliance  on  his 
opinions,  but  to  try  their  own  strength,  as  he  was  convinced  they 
would  accomplish  more  through  it.  Provost  Nicolas  von  Watten- 
wyl,  who  stood  at  the  head  of  the  Bernese  church,  and  who 
enjoyed  an  influence  in  it  almost  episcopal,  read  and  admired 
his  letters  to  Haller.  Full  of  joy  and  hope  for  the  future,  Haller 
writes  to  Zwingli :  "  Our  bishop  Wattenwyl  cannot  sufficiently 
praise  and  recommend  your  dear  letters  to  us.  Eejoice  him 
with  one  of  your  epistles.  Our  Bernese  hunger  for  the  Word  of 
God,  and  we  feed  them  according  to  the  grace  given  us  of  the 
Lord;  the  Lord  Jesus  increases  with  us  the  number  of  the  faith- 
ful daily,  so  that  if  God  abandon  us  not,  it  will  be  hard  to  sup- 
press His  doctrine,  much  as  a  part  of  the  nobility  work  against  it." 
The  Lord  having  here  opened  a  door,  Zwingli  could  no  longer 
hesitate.  "  I  feel  daily  more,"  he  wrote  to  Haller,  "  what  force 
the  words  of  Paul  have,  '  necessity  is  laid  upon  me,  yea,  woe  is 
unto  me  if  I  preach  not  the  gospel,'  1  Cor.  ix.  16,  for  I  too,  small 
though  I  be,  cannot  possibly  rest  and  take  holiday,  because  the 
Lord  who  moves  my  heart  will  not  allow  it,  tliough  now  and  then 


INFLUENCE  ON  THE  VICTORY  OF  THE  REFOKMATION.    187 

a  sense  of  weariness  and  a  fear  of  danger  will  steal  across  my 
soul,  and  fain  lead  me  to  give  up  the  contest.  Far  removed  from 
not  watching  and  fighting  with  and  for  you,  I  cannot  desist  from 
it."  To  the  Provost  von  Wattenwyl  he  wrote :  "  Grace  and  peace 
from  God  and  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  AVldle  it  is  a  source  of 
joy,  0  dearest  brother  in  Christ  Jesus,  to  all  Christians,  that  the 
faith  daily  increases  and  waxes  strong  in  the  good  town  of  Berne, 
your  native  city,  yet  your  own  conversion  from  darkness  to  light 
gladdens  me  especially.  For  many  things  might  have  hindered 
you;  your  illustrious  pedigi-ee,  (your  father  was  often  invested 
with  the  dignity  of  Schuldheiss,  and  held  other  offices  of  honour,) 
3'our  wealth,  your  own  merits,  your  affability  and  courtesy 
towards  all  men,  and,  finally,  the  high  esteem  you  enjoyed  on  the 
part  of  popes  and  bishops.  ]>ut  God  has  led  you  in  a  wonderful 
manner  with  your  whole  people.  0  how  true  is  the  saying  of 
Christ,  '  No  man  can  come  to  me  except  the  Father,  which  hath 
sent  me,  draw  him.'  He  worketh  all  in  all ;  to  Him  we  shall 
render  eternal  praise  and  thanks  for  your  faith.  May  God,  who 
hath  led  us  to  the  wondrous  light  of  the  knowledge  of  His  Being 
and  His  Word,  confirm  in  us  all  that  He  has  begun." 

The  gospel  struck  its  roots  deeper  and  deeper  into  the  hearts 
of  the  Bernese  ;  the  enemies  of  the  Refonnation  in  both  Coun- 
cils were  forced  to  succumb  to  its  fi-iends.  On  Zwin^li's  learning 
of  tins  happy  revolution  in  the  public  mind,  and  change  in  the 
posture  of  public  affairs,  he  wrote  to  Haller  in  the  begin- 
ning of  the  year  1527:  "  ^ly  dearest  Berchtold,  eveiything  knows 
its  ordination,  and  even  lifeless  nature  follows  it.  After  the  raw 
north  wind  come  milder  airs,  and  after  the  hot  days  of  summer 
autumn  displays  its  golden  treasures.  Ought  we,  then,  now  that 
the  Creator  of  all  things,  in  whose  sei'vice  we  stand,  levels  the 
way  to  us  by  which  we  may  penetrate  into  the  centre  of  the 
enemy's  camp,  ought  we,  I  say,  to  enter  on  the  contest  with  less 
courage  ?  No ;  unless  we  might  be  like  the  changeable  winds. 
God  has  opened  to  you  and  to  us  all,  in  Berne,  a  door,  at  which 
we  can  take  in  the  dove,  for  a  time  scared  away  but  ever  long- 
ing to  return.  lUit  without  a  parable.  Christian  doctrine,  once 
banished  from  our  country,  may  now  be  freely  preached.  You 
are  here'  the  jiilot  and  the  saving  Noah.  Ply  all  diligence,  seize  hold 
of  ever}'  opportunity.  g\iard  yourself  against  the  reproach  tliat 


188    INFLUENCE  ON  THE  VICTORY  OF  THE  REFORMATION. 

fine  hopes  have  been  blighted  by  your  neglect,  or  by  the  work 
not  being  entered  upon  with  sufficient  zeal.  Stand  firm;  hold 
on.  Throw  the  hooks  and  the  rod  of  faith  so  into  the  hearts  of 
your  people,  that  it  will  be  impossible  to  again  tear  them  out. 
The  Lord  send  you  light  and  strength."  Brilliant  success  crowned 
the  labours  of  Haller  and  his  friends.  On  the  Sunday  succeed- 
ing Martinmas  1527,  it  was  unanimously  resolved  by  the  Council 
and  citizens  to  institute,  in  the  first  days  of  the  coming  year,  a 
Eeligious  Conference,  after  the  model  of  Zurich,  "  without  digres- 
sions, invectives,  offensive  or  abusive  language,  that  the  truth 
might  not  be  concealed,  but  that  the  ground  of  divine  truth,  of 
Christian  intelligence,  and  of  saving  health,  might  be  discovered, 
and  that  a  worship  in  conformity  with  the  Holy  Scriptures  might 
be  planted  and  observed."  To  this  Disputation  there  were 
invited,  the  four  bishops  of  Constance,  Wallis,  Basle,  and  Lau- 
sanne, (under  whose  jurisdiction  the  Bernese  lands  hitherto  stood,) 
"  as  the  superior  pastors  and  shepherds,  not  ordained  to  shear  the 
sheep,  but  to  feed  them,  at  the  penalty  of  loss  of  rights  and 
incomes  in  the  territory  of  Berne."  Farther,  all  the  members  of 
the  Confederacy  and  Union,  of  whatsoever  party  they  might  be, 
to  the  end,  that  a  common  Confederacy  might  also  be  brought 
to  a  common  faith  without  compulsion  to  any  ;  and,  finally,  the 
whole  Bernese  clergy,  and  each  and  all,  be  he  stranger  or  native, 
priest  or  layman,  willing  to  dispute.  All  the  friends  of  the 
gospel  turned  their  eyes  on  Zwingli,  on  whose  presence  at  the 
Disputation  they  believed  the  hopes  of  victory  for  evangelic  truth 
in  Berne  to  rest ;  in  pressing  terms  Haller  prays  this  "  best 
beloved  brother  and  champion  in  the  cause  of  Christ,"  that  he 
would  be  pleased  to  attend.  "  Would  to  God  that  you  knew  the 
ardent  wishes  of  all  of  us  that  this  affair  might  have  a  Christian 
issue.  You  know  how  much  is  here  at  stake,  what  shame, 
mockery,  and  disgrace  would  fall  upon  the  Evangel  and  us,  if  we 
were  found  not  to  be  competent  to  the  task.  I  know,  however, 
out  of  manifold  experience,  how  much  you  have  at  heart  the 
glory  of  God  and  His  Word,  the  salvation  of  Berne,  and  of  the 
whole  of  Switzerland,  and  that  you  will  do  all  to  aid  us  in  this 
emergency  and  crisis  of  our  history.  My  brother,  fail  not,  the 
whole  town  sets  its  confidence  upon  you."  Zwingli  himself  was 
equally  resolved  to  indulge  at  once  the  impulse  of  his  feelings. 


INFLUENCE  ON  THE  VICTORY  OP  THE  REFORMATION.  1  89 

and  the  intreaties  of  his  friends  at  Berne,  and  immediately  applied 
to  the  Council  of  Zurich  for  permission  to  attend  this  Disputa- 
tion, that  he  might  manifest  to  every  one  "  that  his  doctrine  was 
not  heretical  hut  truly  Christian,  not  God-l)las})hemino-,  hut  God- 
fearing, not  the  oftspring  of  selfishness  and  ambition,  but  of  love 
to  the  gloiy  of  God,  and  the  advancement  of  the  general  weal, 
not  having  for  its  object  dissension  in  the  Confederacy,  luit  union." 
Far  and  near  friends  and  enemies  of  evangelical  tnith  felt  the 
importance  of  the  decision  which  was  to  take  place  at  Berne. 
The  four  bishops  and  the  Emperor  himself,  but  most  pressingly 
of  all  the  papistical  cantons,  exhorted  the  Bernese  to  give  up  their 
design.  They  returned  the  dignified  answer:  "  We  change 
nothing  in  the  twelve  articles  of  the  Christian  faith ;  we  separate 
not  from  the  Church  whose  head  is  Christ ;  what  is  founded  on 
the  Word  of  God  will  abide  for  ever;  we  only  shall  not  depart 
from  the  Word  of  God." 

From  Zurich,  an  invitation  was  issued  to  the  Imperial  towns 
of  South  Germany  to  send  their  learned  men  and  clergy  to  this 
conference,  and  was  joj-fully  accepted.  On  New- Year's  Eve  1528, 
there  were  assembled  in  Zurich  more  than  a  hundred  of  the 
clergy  and  learned  men  from  Suabia  and  East  Switzerland.  On 
the  following  morning  they  set  out  for  Berne,  accompanied  by  a 
delegation  of  the  Zurich  Council,  and  attended  by  a  respect- 
able body  of  armed  men;  the  five  lionuni  Catholic  cantons 
through  which  their  way  led  them,  having  refused  a  safe  conduct. 
Onwards  they  moved  to  Berne,  to  take  captive  to  Christ  this 
proud  city,  wliich  no  enemy  had  neared  with  impunity,  to 
establish  His  gospel  there,  and  bring  its  heroic  citizens  under 
His  gentle  yoke.  Zwingli,  full  of  zeal  for  the  glory  of  God,  and 
ready  to  sun-endcr  his  life  at  any  moment  in  the  service  of  his 
Master,  rode  at  the  head  of  the  cavalcade,  by  the  side  of  Burgo- 
master Eoist,  and  one  of  the  counsellors.  On  the  4th  of  Januaiy 
he  entered  Berne,  whither  in  the  meanwhile  CKcolampad  of 
Basle,  and  Bucer  and  Capito  of  Strasburg  were  already  come. 
The  Disputation  began  on  the  6th,  according  to  the  regulations 
and  directions  of  Zwingli,  who  also  had  drawn  up  the  Proposi- 
tions, and  taken  the  charge  of  their  printing.  A  combat,  result- 
ing in  victor}',  was  waged  for  eighteen  days  by  the  friends  of  the 


1 90    INFLUENCE  ON  THE  VICTORY  OF  THE  REFORMATION. 

gospel,  in  behalf  of  evangelical  tnitli.  In  tliis  contest,  Zwingli,* 
even  in  the  judgment  of  his  antagonists,  distinguished  himself 
above  all  others. 

A  more  lasting  effect,  however,  than  that  arising  from  the 
superiority  maintained  in  the  Disputation,  was  probably  produced 
by  the  testimonies  of  their  Christian  faith,  delivered  by  some  of 
the  eminent  learned  strangers,  in  sermons  which  they  preached 
in  the  Minster.-|-  Zwingli  delivered  two  sermons.  In  the  first, 
he  gave  a  justification  of  his  faith  and  doctrine,  explaining  the 
Christian  creed,  and  proving  that  in  all  points  he  concurred  with 
the  articles  of  faith  in  it.  Upon  his  touching,  in  the  course  of 
his  discourse,  on  the  Eomish  doctrine  of  the  mass,  disproving  it, 
and,  on  the  other  hand,  developing  the  significance  of  the  Supper, 
according  to  the  institution  of  Christ,  a  priest,  who  was  just  pre- 
paring to  read  mass  from  one  of  the  altars,  was  seen  to  throw 
aside  his  mass-weed,  in  which  he  had  already  arrayed  himself, 
with  the  words,  "  If  the  mass  rest  on  no  better  bottom,  I  shall 
neither  read  thee  now,  nor  read  thee  more."  Zwingli's  last 
sermon  he  delivered  immediately  before  his  departure  from 
Berne,  when  the  victory  of  the  Eeformation  had  been  decided. 
He  accordingly  embraced  the  occasion  to  exhort  his  hearers,  among 
whom  there  were  many  steeled  warriors,  to  Christian  steadfast- 
ness, closing  with  the  following  heart-stirring  appeal :  "  Where- 
fore recognise  the  freedom  which  Christ  has  purchased  for  you, 
and  continue  therein,  according  to  the  exhortation  of  Paul,  Gal. 
V.  1,  and  be  not  any  more  bowed  under  the  yoke  of  servitude  or 
thraldom.  Ye  know  the  oppression  we  suffered  in  our  consciences, 
led  astray  as  we  have  been  from  one  false  means  of  comfort  to 
another,  which,  however,  only  overloaded  our  consciences,  which 
never  made  them  free  nor  consoled  them.     But,  behold,  now 

*  "This  beast,"  so  writes  a  papistical  hearer,  "  is  in  truth  more  learned  than  I 
had  believed.  The  malapert  CEcolampad  may  understand  the  prophets  and 
Hebrew  better,  and  in  Greek  he  may  equal  him,  but  in  fertility  of  intellect, 
in  force  and  perspicuity  of  statement,  he  is  very  far  behind  him.  I  could  make 
nothing  of  Capito.  Bucer  spoke  more  than  he  did.  Had  Bucer  the  learning 
and  linguistical  acquirements  of  CEcolampad  and  Zwingli,  he  would  be  more 
dangerous  than  either:  so  quick  is  he  in  his  movements,  and  so  pleasantly  can 
he  talk." 

t  Testimonials  of  Evangelical  Truth  in  modern  German,  edited  l)y  R. 
Christoffel.     Berne,  Dalp  1853. 


HIS  RELATIONS  TO  FAREL.  191 

what  freedom  ye  liiive,  and  what  comfort  in  the  knowledge  of 
God,  and  in  the  confidence  which  ye  have  in  Him  through  Jesus 
Chi'ist.  From  this  freedom  and  redemption  of  the  Spirit,  let  not 
yourselves  be  ever  moved.  There  is  here  a  bravery  demanded 
as  in  no  other  matter.  But  as  our  ancestors,  God  be  praised, 
stood  courageous  and  immovable  in  the  defence  of  their  civil 
freedom,  so  ought  ye,  and  yet  more  steadfastly  for  that  liberty 
which  sets  free  the  conscience  here  below,  and  which  will  crown 
you  with  everlasting  joy  above.  At  the  same  time,  trust  that 
the  same  God  who  has  enlightened  and  led  you,  will  also  in  His 
own  time  guide  our  dear  neighbours,  the  other  members  of  the 
Confederacy,  so  that  we  may  live  together  more  unitedly  than 
ever  in  such  a  true  friendship  as  consists  with  the  will  of  God. 
]May  God,  who  has  created  and  redeemed  us,  gi'ant  this  both  to 
us  and  them.     Amen." 

Before  their  departure  from  Berne,  the  strangers  were  wit- 
nesses of  a  fine  act  of  noble-mindedness.  The  Bernese  pardoned 
two  individuals,  who  had  forfeited  their  lives  by  a  breacli  of  the 
"urfehde,"  or  solemn  oath,  not  to  take  vengeance.  "AVhen  a 
king  or  prince  at  friendship  with  us,  visits  us,"  said  they,  "  we 
have  the  custom,  in  honour  of  our  royal  guests,  to  set  criminals 
at  liberty,  with  a  recommendation  to  amendment  of  life.  Now, 
however,  that  the  King  of  kings  and  the  Prince  of  Peace,  the 
Son  of  God,  our  Elder  brother,  has  condescended  to  visit  us, 
why  should  not  we  honour  Him,  who  brings  to  us  redemption 
from  eternal  perdition,  by  pardoning  those  who  hav'e  sinned 
against  us  ?" 

With  the  victory  of  the  Reformation  in  Berne,  a  door  was 
opened  for  the  extension  of  the  gospel  to  French  -  speaking 
Switzerland,  particularly  to  Neueuburg,  Waad  and  Geneva, 
Already  there  laboured  here,  with  the  zeal  of  an  Elias,  William 
Farel,  a  French  nobleman  of  Dauphiny.  He,  too,  felt  himself 
irresistibly  attracted  by  the  heroic  character  of  Zwingli,  and  he 
called  the  Eeformer's  attention  to  this  part  of  Switzerland 
and  France.  Forced  to  flee  to  Sti^asburg  on  account  of  his  evan- 
gelical labours,  he  calls  from  thence  to  Zwingli,  in  the  language 
of  admiration:  "I  wish  you  all  joy  that  your  faith  manifests 
itself  so  gloriously,  and  that  Christ,  through  whom  you  labour 
and  contend,  has  so  strong  foundation  in  you,  as  is  evident  from 


192  HIS  EELATIONS  TO  FAREL. 

this,  that  you  recognise  His  great  grace  in  you,  and  attribute  your 
strength  to  Him  and  His  grace,  to  whom  they  belong,  and  not  to 
yourself,  ascribing  only  that  to  yourself  which  is  seemly,  so  that 
God  remains  God,  and  man  man."  After  recommending  to  him 
a  countryman,  who  had  been  driven  from  his  home  for  the  gospel, 
requesting  Zwingli,  if  possible,  to  procure  him  a  situation  as 
preacher  or  teacher  in  the  Neuenburg  district,  or  elsewhere,  he 
entreats  him  to  do  all  in  his  power  "  that  in  this  way,  too,  some 
light  may  be  thrown  on  poor  France."  Farel  himself  came  after- 
wards into  the  very  region  where  he  desired  to  see  his  expatriated 
countryman  provided  for,  and  then  he  felt  still  more  urgently 
than  ever  the  necessity  of  combining  his  labours  with  those  of 
Zwingli,  and  drawing  strength  from  his  strength.  "  Continue," 
he  writes,  "  in  the  path  you  have  entered  upon,  0  bold  Christian 
warrior,  to  shed  your  light  before  us,  by  piety,  faith,  and  purity 
of  doctrine,  and  pray  the  Lord  for  us,  that  He  may  grant  us  these 
gifts  likewise  more  and  more.  A  desire  for  the  preaching  of  the 
Word  shewed  itself  in  Geneva  ;  but  the  inhabitants  of  Freiburg 
will  not  have  it.  Ah !  if  the  Bernese  were  equally  zealous  for 
the  glory  of  Christ  as  the  Freiburgers  are  for  papistical  opinions 
and  doctrines.  Weigh  well  the  great  grace  that  God  has  bestowed 
on  you,  in  that  you  can  do  much  here  for  the  glorifying  of  His 
name.  I  desire  to  have  you  as  my  fellow -labourer,  as  well  in  the 
work  as  the  ripening  fruit.  Lend  us,  in  your  great  foresight  and 
wisdom,  help." 

In  this  manner  wrought  Zwingli,  by  the  proclamation  and 
triumphant  advocacy  of  the  gospel,  by  his  bright  example  of 
Christian  courage  and  evangelical  steadfastness,  yet  more,  how- 
ever, by  his  counsels  and  his  great  influence  over  the  magistracy 
of  the  different  cantons,  with  the  most  distinguished  success  for 
the  extension  of  the  Eeformation  in  his  native  country.  If  we 
consider,  too,  as  is  more  fully  to  be  seen  in  the  Life  of  fficolam- 
pad,  that  he  stood  with  this  servant  of  the  Lord,  chosen  to  extend 
and  carry  forward  to  victory  the  cause  of  the  gospel  in  Basle,  in 
the  closest  relations  of  Christian  friendship,  strengthening  and 
inspiring  him  with  his  own  heroic  courage  and  the  fire  of  his 
spirit,  while  Zwingli,  on  the  other  hand,  drank  deeply  of  the 
John-like  love  and  profound  learning  of  his  friend,  we  have,  with 
the  blessed  influence  he  exerted  on  the  church  of  his  native 


APOSTOLIC  CARES  AND  LABOURS.  IftS 

country,  lui  image  before  us  of  a  trui'  apostle,  of  a  man  (rulv 
great.  It  is  with  justice  that  Haller  writes  to  liini,  "  Tliou  art  tlie 
eye  and  the  bishop  of  the  whole  fatherhand,  nay,  of  the  mIioIc 
Christian  Church."  For  Zwingli's  glances  extended  beyond  the 
limits  of  his  native  country,  and  his  heart,  on  which  the  image 
of  his  Saviour  was  deeply  engraved,  beat  high  for  tJic  weal  of  the 
whole  ChrLstian  Cliurck 


4.  ZwiNGLi's  Apostolic  Cares  and  Labours  for  the  Extension 
AND  Confirmation  of  Evangelical  Truth  in  Cermany. 

After  his  coiintiy,  the  extension  and  the  victory  of  the  gospel 
in  Germany  lay  nearest  Zwingli's  heart.  His  influence,  through 
means  of  his  numerous  friends,  bore  most  on  the  free  imperial 
towns  of  South  Germany  and  on  the  Ehine,  where  every  where 
evangelical  men  laboured  in  the  spirit  of  their  great  exemplar  at 
Zurich,  from  whom  they  sought  instruction  and  counsel,  and 
from  whom  they  received  many  a  word  of  encouragement,  explana- 
tion, and  advice.  "With  the  zeal  of  a  gi-eat  military  captain  fight- 
ing at  the  head  of  his  host,  and  encouraging  his  men  to  deeds  of 
valour,  Zwingli  stirred  up  the  preachers  of  the  gospel  in  the 
towns  of  Suabia  to  combat  the  anti-Christian  papacy.  Let  us 
see  the  force  and  effect  of  his  words  to  his  fellow  combatants 
in  the  echo  which  they  found  in  their  breasts. 

Urbanus  Eegius  of  Augsburg  writes  to  his  colleague,  John 
Frosch,  likewise  of  Augsburg,  after  reading  one  of  Zwingli's 
hortatory  letters  to  the  latter:  "  I  have  read  Zwingli's  letter,  and 
have  re-read  it,  for  1  felt  my  soul  inspired  by  it,  and  kindled  to 
admiration.  For  the  words  of  this  man  of  God  are  fire  itself,  and 
kindle  fire  in  you.  And  however  little  the  pen  is  able  to  reach 
the  force  of  the  living  word,  yet  there  shines  out  of  this  letter, 
in  a  most  wonderful  manner,  the  genuine  single-mindedness  and 
fidelity  of  a  truly  ]»ious  heart,  and  an  unspeakably  lofty  spirit, 
that  leaves  all  our  words  far  behind  it.  lUit  I  will  nut  speak  of 
the  accompli-slinients  and  eloquence  of  this  man.  I'ut  mark  with 
what  carefulness  his  love  takes  in  all,  and  thinks  on  all,  how  it 
overlooks  nothing  in  its  comprehensiveness  that  can  minister  to 
the  glorv'  of  God.  and  the  .salvation  of  the  brethren.     Who  is 

N 


194  APOSTOLIC  CARES  AND  LABOURS. 

there  that  suffers,  and  Zwingli  suffers  not?  Think  you  that  liis 
soul  is  not  daily  moved  by  the  care  of  all  the  churches,  seeing 
that  he  so  ardently  desires  that  our  Augsburg  church  may  be 
well  provided  for?  Our  Zwingli  knows  weU  the  devices  of  Satan, 
the  deceit  of  this  world,  and  the  temptations  of  the  flesh,  which 
tlu^eaten  and  counteract  the  servants  of  the  Word  on  every  hand ; 
for  already,  for  some  time  back,  he  has,  with  gTeat  distinction, 
waged  this  contest  against  trial  and  temptation.  I  am  deeply 
ashamed  of  my  indifference  and  lukewarmness,  when  I  consider 
this  burning  zeal,  so  much  wanted  in  our  times,  and  then  when 
I  reflect,  with  a  bitter  feeling  of  regret,  how  strong  within  me 
the  flesh  is,  how  cold  I  am  in  comparison  of  this  glowing  love 
of  Zwingli's.  Like  a  brave  militaiy  chief,  he  calls  on  to  the 
combat,  while  he  himself  advances,  armed  with  the  shield  of 
faith,  and  skilled  in  war,  and  casting  himself  into  the  thick  of 
the  fight,  drives  back  the  onset  of  the  enemy,  and  piercing  to 
the  very  wedge-point  of  the  enemy's  host,  he  forgets  not,  in  the 
sweat  and  dangers  of  the  battle,  his  fellow-combatants  either, 
but  encourages  them,  and  holds  them  sharply  to  the  fight,  that 
none  may  turn  his  foot  to  flight,  or  cowardly  flinch  from  his  post, 
nor,  terrified  by  the  greatness  of  the  threatening  danger,  abandon 
the  glorious  banner  of  the  Cross,  and  fall  away  from  Christ,  his 
Captain,  to  Antichrist.  Paul,  Christ's  unwearied  combatant,  has 
often  stirred  up  the  lukewarm,  and  encouraged  the  wearied  and 
the  war-worn,  by  Christ's  and  his  own  example,  to  the  joyful 
struggle  against  the  woes  of  this  life.  With  like  love  our  friend, 
equally  dear  to  you  and  me,  encourages  you,  not  doubting  but 
that  in  so  great  a  town  there  will  be  much  to  obstruct  the  Word. 
Go  forward  as  you  have  hitherto  done,  persevere,  and  take  to 
heart  the  encouraging  words  of  Zwingli,  which  spring  from  the 
purest  love." 

It  was  not,  however,  Avith  Urbanus  Eegius  alone,  it  was  with 
the  greater  part  of  the  preachers  of  the  gospel  in  all  the  towns 
of  South  Germany,  that  the  admonitions  of  the  Reformer  told 
with  such  a  spirit-stirring  effect,  that  it  may  be  truly  said  the 
Eeformation  formed  itseK  here  entirely  under  the  plastic  hand 
of  Zwingli,  and  shaped  itself  after  the  model  of  Zurich.  At  a 
later  period,  when  Memminger  stood  in  danger  of  being  deprived 
of  the  preaching  of  the  Word  through  imperial  tyranny,  Zwingli 


APOSTOLIC  CARES  AND  LABOURS.  1!).) 

raised  his  voice  to  burgoma-ster,  council,  and  citizens,  oncoina<r- 
ing  them  to  united  perseverance.  "  Consider,  dear  sirs  and 
brethren,"  lie  writes,  "  if  the  moral  and  spiritual  condition  of 
mankind  in  the  whole  of  Christendom  be  not  so  un-Christian, 
sinful,  and  miserable  that  the  conscience  of  eveiy  man  must  pro- 
nounce this  judgment:  We  nuist  either  better  oui-selves  entirely, 
or  Ciod  will  punish  us.  Well,  then,  now  that  the  mind  not  only 
admits,  but  sees  very  clearly,  that  all  this  iniquity  lias  arisen, 
and  grown  to  its  monstrous  size,  under  the  false  doctrine  of  the 
Pope,  and  that  theivfore  it  is  impossible  that  he  can  point  us  to 
the  right  course,  it  is  indubitable  that  we  ought  to  direct  our- 
selves by  no  other  doctrine,  if  we  really  wish  to  better  ourselves, 
and  to  be  reconciled  to  tJod,  except  by  Gods  oion  Word.  Since, 
then,  the  Almighty  God  has  opened  up  to  you  His  Holy  Grospel, 
in  which  the  certainty  of  salvation  is  promised,  and  the  example 
of  a  blameless  life  in  Christ  Jesus  is  shewn  forth,  ye  ought,  with- 
out doubt,  to  magnify  God,  that  in  the  midst  of  danger,  and  the 
threatenings  of  His  MTath,  He  has  shewed  you  the  way  by  M'hich 
you  can  be  reconciled  to  Him.  And  although  the  world  for  this 
reason  hate,  although  they  threaten  to  persecute  and  kill  you, 
you  ought  to  value  little  such  threats.  If,  however,  the  time 
should  come  (as  present  appearances  seem  to  indicate  that  it  will 
ere  long  come)  when  you  are  called  upon  to  confess  your  faith,  so 
reflect,  dear  sirs  and  brethren,  that  Christ,  our  Captain,  threatens 
also:  Whoever  denies  Him,  He  will  deny  before  His  Father;  and 
again,  whosoever  shall  confess  Him  before  men,  He  will  also 
confess  before  His  Father.  Wherefore,  confess  ye  the  tnith 
freely,  and  leave  Christ,  your  Captain,  to  present  your  case  at 
the  court  of  the  gi-eat  King,  in  confident  hope  that  He  who  hath 
gi'anted  you  His  light  and  His  Spirit,  will  also  accomplish  that 
wliich  He  hath  begun.  Look  not  on  your  own  strength,  nor  on 
the  strength  of  your  enemies,  but  see  how  strong  He  is  M'hose 
affair  it  is  you  have  taken  up,  and  whom  ye  believe  and  serve. 
Wlien  has  He  abandoned  those  that  tinist  in  Him?  Above  all, 
strive  to  be  unanimous  and  coml)ined,  for  with  union  the  smallest 
township  has  saved  its  honour,  while  with  disunion  the  mightiest 
power  has  gone  to  ruin.  Be  wise,  and  concern  yourselves  also 
for  the  l>retliren,  which  is  well-pleasing  to  Gf)d,  that  all  having 
one  spirit,  may  do  one  work  and  battle  of  (iod,  eveiything  in 


196  APOSTOLIC  CARES  AND  LABOUES. 

the  Lord,  in  all  union  and  fidelity.  For  I  promise  you,  by  God 
whom  I  preach,  that  if  ye  be  of  one  mind,  and  let  not  yourselves 
be  seduced  by  the  hire  of  falsehood  and  unfaithfulness,  that  God 
will  certainly  sustain  you.  I  commend  you  to  God,  who  i« 
strong,  and  leaves  none  that  put  their  trust  in  Him.  Follow  that 
sincere,  faithful  servant  of  the  Lord,  Simpert  Schenk,  and  ye 
have  nothing  to  fear." 

AVe  have  already  alluded  to  the  fact  that  evangelical  doctrine 
and  the  Eeformation  effected  by  Zwingli  were  welcomed  and 
hailed  also  in  the  free  imperial  towns  on  the  Rhine.  In  the 
spirit  of  Zwingli,  and  in  close  friendly  relations  with  him,  there 
laboured  in  Muelhausen  Mcolas  Prugner;  in  Mayence,  for  a 
time,  Capito  and  Hedio;  in  Strasburg,  Bucer,  and  Capito  and 
Hedio,  after  they  had  left  Mayence;  in  Frankfort,  Dionysius 
Melander  and  John  Haner,  who,  filled  with  admiration  at 
Zwingii's  steadfastness  and  true  piety  of  soul,  pressingly  solicited 
his  friendship ;  in  Hessen,  Franciscus  Lambert,  who  introduced 
Zwingii's  original  ideas  on  ecclesiastical  discipline ;  in  East 
Friesland,  John  Aportanus  of  ZwoU.  Here  there  followed  John 
of  Lasky,  who,  upon  a  journey  which  he  made  from  Poland,  his 
native  country,  in  1523,  for  his  farther  instruction  in  the  faith, 
was  introduced  to  the  knowledge  of  the  Holy  Scriptures  by  the 
Eeformer  in  Zurich.  The  ray  of  divine  tnith  had  so  fired  his 
soul,  that  he  exchanged  the  most  brilliant  prospects  in  his  native 
country  for  the  poverty  of  a  servant  of  Christ.  From  West- 
phalia* also,  and  the  Netherlands,"!-  niany  turned  their  eyes,  full 
of  hope,  on  Zwingli.  He  himself  felt  a  thrill  of  joy  pervading 
his  soul  as  his  bookseller  and  friend,  Christoffel  Froschauer,  on 
his  return  from  the  Frankfort  fair,  reported  that  the  gospel  had 
struck  vigorous  roots,  and  otfered  the  fairest  prospects  in  all  the 
Rhenish  towns.  Occasionally,  indeed,  his  heart  was  afflicted  by 
the  persecutions  excited  in  many  quarters  against  the  infant  evan- 
gelical congregations.  Into  the  hearts  of  these  persecuted  mem- 
bers of  the  body  of  Christ  he  infused  consolation  and  courage  with 
the  steadfast  faith  and  unwearied  love  of  a  true  disciple  of  Christ, 

*  The  Westphalian  poet,  Hermann  of  the  Beech-tree,  corresponded  witli 
Zwingli. 

t  The  visit  of  the  two  learned  men,  Rhodius  and  Sagan.  shews  how  high  Mas 
the  esteem  in  which  Zwingli  stood. 


APOSTOLIC  CAKES  AND  LABOURS.  1  !»7 

and  c'xhoiti'd  them  to  pei*severanc(>.  Wluii  the  town  ul"  Muel- 
hausen  was  sorely  pressed,  Ly  threats  and  temptations,  to  depart 
from  the  accepted  evangelical  doctrine,  and  to  return  to  the  papal 
Cluireh,  Zwingli  sounded  the  note  of  warning  and  cxhoi-tation 
in  the  following  circular,  which  he  despatched  to  them.  "  None 
can  be  ignorant  that  opposition  and  trials  must  be  encountered 
by  those  who  will  cling  to  the  Word  of  God,  as  Paul  also  shews. 
(2  Tim.  iii.  12.)  It  is  therefore  well  to  be  conceived  that  ye  mu.st 
bear  mockery,  reviling,  and  menaces,  since  ye  have  come  to  the 
knowledge  of  the  tiaith,  and  have  adopted  it.  Yet  such  opposi- 
tion ought  by  no  means  to  distress  you,  for  it  is  in  adversity  we 
Hrst  learn  rightly  to  believe,  to  pray,  to  act,  to  counsel.  When 
believei"s  are  tried  with  force,  then  first  of  all  is  faith  proved ;  for 
then  the  believer  knows  whether  he  be  firm  and  unchangeable, 
or  whether  he  woiUd  fain  draw  back.  But  when  faith  is  rightly 
fasliioned  it  says,  I  had  sooner  lose  the  whole  world  than 
draw  back.  Now,  for  the  first  time,  the  believer  recognises 
his  faith,  and  becomes  conscious  of  what  it  demands,  namely 
this,  that  he  set  his  hope  iipon  God  alone,  and  despise  all 
other  means  of  comfort.  Those  who  experience  no  adversity 
may  indeed  speak  of  fortitude,  but  when  the  hour  of  trial 
comes,  they  often  make  a  miserable  exhibition  of  their  faith. 
Therefore,  all  trials  for  God's  sake  ought  to  be  welcome  to  us. 
For  God  hath  thereto  appointed  them,  that  thi'ough  them  we 
may  give  proof  of  our  faith,  nay,  they  are  designed  to  prove 
ourselves  to  ourselves.  Before  trial  every  one  prayed  according 
to  his  own  fashion,  and  knew  not  what  to  pray  for.  (Horn.  viii. 
26.)  But  when  it  concerns  the  main  thing,  namely,  our  faith, 
in  which  our  consciences  are  at  clear  agreement  with  God,  and 
men  will  rob  us  of  this,  then  our  spirit  screams,  plains,  and 
cries  to  God,  in  choking  sighs,  'O  Lord!  ah!  Lord  God!  help, 
O  God!  forsake  not  thy  child.'  But  here  Satan  slips  slyly  and 
cunningly  to  our  sides,  and  we  say  to  ourselves,  '  If  I  conquer, 
then  it  will  lie  an  honour  to  me  too  that  I  adhered  to  the  Wiirtl 
of  God,'  and  he  tries  to  substitute  falsehood  and  guile  in  tlu; 
place  of  our  integrity.  Such  attempts  of  Satan  do  indeed  nuich 
disturl>  the  si)irit,  s(}  that  such  whisperings  destroy  all  the  fruit 
and  j(»y  of  our  faith,  and  now  the  spirit  cries  to  God  more  ear- 
nestly than  (Vtr.     l'.\il  fhtiif/er  teaches  us  n<>t  only  to  belirve  ami 


198  APOSTOLIC  CARES  AND  LABOUKS. 

pray,  but  to  act  well;  for  then  it  is  we  are  zealous  to  do  alone 
those  things  which  please  Him  who  is  our  only  refuge  and 
resource,  and  throiigh  whom  alone  we  can  overcome  our  enemies. 
Therefore,  stout-hearted  servants  of  God,  stand  firm.  He  who 
beholds  our  conflict  is  not  blind ;  He  spies  not  out  of  a  narrow 
window ;  He  oversees  with  His  omniscient  eyes  all  camps,  lands, 
and  creatures.  Nor  will  He  overlook  you  who  are  struggling 
for  His  name's  sake ;  He  will  see  you ;  He  will  also  see,  when 
the  time  comes,  your  enemies,  and  will  carry  them  away,  like 
withered  leaves  before  the  autumn  wind.  May  God  increase 
your  faith.  Then  the  world  shall  know  that  God  exalts  the 
lowly.  God  be  with  you.  I  pray  God  that  Nicolas  Prugner 
teach  sound  doctrine  as  hitherto.     Amen." 

Clearly  as  Zwingli  took  in  view  the  individual  combatants  as 
they  appeared  for  the  cause  of  Christ,  and  the  situation  and  neces- 
sities of  the  single  towns  and  communities  in  Germany,  shaping 
his  instructions,  admonitions,  and  consolations  in  accordance  with 
their  several  necessities,  equally  comprehensive  was  the  glance  he 
threw  on  the  great  struggle  raging  here  between  the  friends  of  the 
gospel  and  the  Eomanists  at  Luther's  war-cry.  Thus,  at  the  close  of 
January  1522,  when  the  Diet,  so  important  in  the  history  of  the 
Eeformation  in  Germany,  was  held  at  Nurnberg,  and  the  newly 
elected  Pope,  Adrian  VI.,  endeavoured,  through  his  Deputy,  Cliie- 
regati,  to  induce  the  assembly  to  suppress  the  preaching  of  the  gos- 
pel, he  felt  himseK  moved,  in  free  and  manly  language,  to  warn  the 
Imperial  towns  against  the  designing  schemes  of  the  Eomanists. 

"  The  lately  consecrated  Pope  of  Eome,"  he  wrote  to  them,  "  has 
made  to  the  States  of  the  Empire  the  following  foolish  and  insane 
overtures ;  He  resolves,  1st,  To  reconcile  the  Emperor  and  the  King 
of  France ;  2d,  To  reform  the  Church ;  8d,  To  raise  an  army  to  march 
against  the  Turks;  -ith.  To  suppress  Luther  and  his  party.  I 
would  lay  my  views  before  your  wisdom  in  regard  to  these  pro- 
posals, insignificant  though  I  be ;  yet  was  the  prophet  Amos 
called  from  his  flock,  and  filled  with  the  Spirit  of  God  to  teach 
Israel.  If,  in  the  first  place,  the  Pope  really  intends  to  reconcile 
the  Emperor  and  the  French  King,  how  conies  it  that  he  applies 
to  the  German  princes,  on  whom  the  matter  is  not  in  the  least 
dependent  ?  Secondly,  if  he  intends  to  reform  the  Church,  why 
does  he  not,  first  of  all,  begin  with  his  bishops  and  cardinals,  the 


APOSTOLIC  CAKES  AND  LABOURS.  199 

more  especially  as  it  is  clear  to  every  mau  that  all  the  arrofrance 
and  abuses  of  the  clergy  have  taken  their  rise  in  Home,  and  have 
from  thence  spread  themselves  over  the  M'hole  world?  If,  thirdly, 
he  will,  as  he  says,  levy  an  army  against  the  Turks,  then  I  must 
confess  my  wonder  at  this  bold  resolve  of  a  man  turned  of  seventy, 
and  my  astonishment  that  he,  a  priest  and  vicar  of  the  meek 
and  lowly  Jesus,  (I  will  grant  him  the  title  for  once,)  should  have 
the  audacity  to  give  such  a  promise,  as  if  all  rested  on  liim,  and 
that,  too,  at  a  time  when  the  war  (between  Spain  and  France) 
has  not  yet  been  ended,  nor  these  two  mighty  princes  brought  to 
act  in  unison ;  I  leave  out  of  view  here  the  cii'cumstance  entirely, 
that  it  were  scarcely  wise  and  politic  for  the  greatest  and  most 
experienced  militaiy  captains,  not  to  speak  of  an  unwarlike 
intiiTQi  old  priest,  to  involve  the  whole  Christian  commonwealth 
in  a  dangerous  war  with  an  enemy  at  once  so  cunning  and  brave, 
so  mighty  and  terrible,  as  the  Turk.  These  promises  which, 
after  the  experience  we  have  had,  no  reasonable  man  can  hold  to 
be  sincere,  are  made  by  the  Romanists,  usually,  it  appears,  at  the 
entrance  into  office  of  each  Pope,  with  the  sole  view  of  drawing 
the  eyes  of  the  world  upon  them,  by  exciting  delusive  hopes,  and 
to  sen'e  as  a  cloak  for  the  accomplishment  of  their  principal 
object,  which  is,  to  destroy  Luther.  How  rapidly  the  doctrine  of 
the  gospel  has  obtained  the  ascendant,  you,  illustrious  princes, 
are  well  aware.  This  is  hateful  to  all  who  have  no  love  to  the 
gospel,  and  yet  they  dare  not  openly  attack  it.  They  therefore 
employ  cunning,  fraud,  and  guile,  and  they  endeavour  to  make 
evangelical  doctrine  odious  by  representing  it  as  Luther's  doctrine. 
What  consequences  will  this  opposition  have  if  ye  do  not  boldly 
meet  it?  Without  doubt  this,  that  many  whose  spirit  is  willing 
but  whose  Hesh  is  weak,  wiU,  as  Peter  did,  deny  Christ;  that 
those  who  are  ready  to  suffer  all  for  Christ  will  Ije  everyAvherc 
under  the  jiretcxt  that  they  are  Lutherans  murdered,  burned,  or 
cast  into  chains.  And  what,  O  princes,  gaieves  me  most  of  all, 
you  will  stain  your  hands  with  innocent  blood,  and  not  once 
dream  that  ye  have  done  it." 

'"Another  consequence  is,"  he  continues,  "that  to  please  the 
Ilomamsts  you  will  plunge  the  whole  of  Germany  into  the  wildest 
commotion.  You  see  that '  the  kingdom  of  God  suflercth  violence, 
and  that  th*-  violent   take  it  bv  forrc'     All  thesf  wh<>  take  the 


200  APOSTOLIC  CAEES  AND  LAB0UK8. 

kingdom  of  God  by  violence  will  be  involved  in  war  with  the 
enemies  of  the  gospel,  if  the  gospel,  under  Luther's  name,  is  to  be 
made  war  upon  or  suppressed.  In  this  manner,  the  Ultramon- 
tane catapult  will  hurl  over  upon  Germany  the  elements  of  con- 
fusion, disunion,  and  anarchy,  and  what  advantage  this,  princes, 
will  bring  to  your  land  every  one  may  readily  perceive.  But  this 
is  the  very  thing  Eomanists  strive  after.  I  have  seen  letters  to  cer- 
tain people  of  their  party  in  Germany  in  which  they  mention  that 
the  Pope  will  attempt  everything  to  extirpate  the  Lutheran  sect. 
Nay,  the  Pope's  party  are  boasting  loudly  they  have  foimd  a  man 
who  will  put  things  on  their  old  footing.  Wlien  therefore  ye  hear 
that  a  truce  has  been  concluded  between  the  Emperor  and  the 
King  of  France,  know  that  this  truce  has  not  been  made  either 
to  send  an  army  against  the  Turks,  or  for  the  purpose  simply  of 
a  short  repose  for  drawing  breath,  but  solely  that  they  may  turn 
their  whole  strength  upon  prohibiting  the  preaching  of  the  gospel 
under  Luther's  name.  If  this  succeed  with  them,  then  is  Eome 
master  not  only  of  the  whole  of  Germany  but  of  the  wdiole  of 
Christendom.  Nor  should  it  blind  your  eyes,  princes,  that  the 
late  popes  have  begun  to  name  your  sons  to  bishoprics  and  car- 
dinalships.  They  did  this  solely  urged  by  necessity,  that  they 
might  bind  you  by  your  sons,  delivered  up  to  them  as  hostages, 
and  thus  hold  you  in  their  power;  for  despise  you  they  certainly 
will  if  you  do  it.  Let  me  just  allude  farther  to  the  rejaort  that 
the  newly  elected  pope  hates  the  cardinals,  and  is  resolved  to 
create  no  more  than  eight  of  them.  Thanks  be  to  God  that  it 
has  come  to  this.  But  why  did  he  light  on  just  this  number?  If 
the  order  of  cardinals  be  so  beneficial  to  the  Christian  community, 
and  so  accordant  to  the  institutions  of  Christ  and  the  apostles,  why 
is  not  the  number  rather  increased  than  diminished?  Or,  why  do 
they  dare  to  abolish  that  which  God  has  ordained?  But  if  these 
office-bearers  be  not  appointed  by  God,  why  do  the  popes  squeeze 
even  eight  of  them  out  of  the  poor  people?  Why  do  they  not  rather 
tear  up  the  roots  altogether,  that  there  may  be  no  aftergrowth  of 
these  rank  weeds  ?  If  Adrian,  who,  forsooth,  would  pass  himself  off 
for  a  wise  and  learned  man,  has  really  at  heart  the  lately  revived 
doctrine  and  truth  of  Christ,  then  will  he  forthwith  give  orders 
that  it  be  preached  without  adulteration  truly  and  faithfully,  and 
he  will  engage  to  the  Christian  people  to  restore  all,  according  to 


APOSTOLIC  CARES  AND  LABOURS.  201 

lii.s  ability,  as  Christ  ordained  it ;  tlR'u  will  every  one  who  is  worthy 
of  the  name  ol'  Christian  support  the  good  work.  But  is  Luther, 
this  pious  and  learned  man,  maltreated,  who  can  be  safe  ?  It  is 
even  said  that  Erasmus  too  has  Ijeen  declared  a  heretic.  If  he 
can  be  reproached  for  anything,  it  is  for  this,  that  he  has  too  much 
spared  them,  and  that  he  has  rather  warned  them  in  a  gentle  and 
fatherly  tone  like  Eli,  than  chid  them  sharply  like  Elias.  If  he, 
which  God  forbid,  has  really  been  declared  a  heretic,  then,  with- 
out doubt,  this  stigma  awaits  the  most  pious  and  the  most  inncj- 
cent  of  men. 

"  In  conclusion,"  says  Zwingli  in  this  letter  to  the  Germans, 
"  I  desire  that  no  man  be  so  foolish  as,  for  the  sake  of  pleasing 
the  liomanists,  who  have  for  so  many  centuries  made  Germany 
their  sport  and  jest,  to  excite  to  anarchy  and  revolt,  and  that  no 
man  be  so  mean  and  slavish  as  to  reject  the  freedom  which  comes 
spontaneously  offering  itself,  and  thus  sink  ingloriously  into  the 
chains  of  a  deadly  thraldom." 

The  German  princes  and  estates  summoned  up  resolution  to 
present  a  list  of  one  hundred  grievances  to  the  Papal  see,  and  to 
hand  it  to  the  Legate  as  an  answer  to  his  overtures.  The 
Komanists,  however,  succeeded  very  soon  in  rendering  this 
step  for  the  preservation  of  the  dignity  and  weal  of  Germany 
nugatory,  and  in  inducing  several  princes  to  interfere  by  force 
against  the  preaching  of  the  gospel.  Zwingli,  with  the  indigna^ 
tion  natural  to  his  straightfoi-svard  noble  character  at  tliis  un- 
principled and  servile  conduct,  addresses  them:  "You  have 
published  at  Xurnburg,  in  oi)en  Diet,  a  great  number  of  articles 
presented  to  the  Pope,  in  which  you  complain  of  grievances. 
Now,  tell  me,  I  pray,  is  it  true  that  you  have  so  many  grievances, 
or  is  it  not?  If  you  have  no  grievances,  why  have  you  made  out 
a  list  of  them?  ^\^ly,  but  to  lend  a  helping  hand  to  the  Pope, 
giving  by  this  list  of  grievances  the  appearance  to  the  Christian 
people  in  general,  as  though  you  were  willing  that  grievances 
should  be  removed,  that  they,  in  the  meanwhile,  may  be  appeased 
and  made  to  bear  the  compulsoiy  measures  of  the  Poi)e  until 
allairs  were  placed  on  their  former  basis.  If  such  was  your 
object,  it  is  plain  you  are  very  sagacious  peoi)le.  If,  however, 
you  were  really  aggrieved  in  these  particulars  you  have  specified. 
l)ow  comes  it  tliat  ymi  continue  to  ]»rotect  and  countenance  an 


202  APOSTOLIC  CAKES  AND  LABOUES. 

opposite  line  of  conduct,  seeing  you  might  so  easily  get  rid  of 
these  grievances  ?  Tor  you  have  the  remedy  against  them  in  the 
Word  of  God,  and  it  is  preached  boldly,  and  the  good  hear  it. 
And  the  great  majority  stands  on  the  side  of  the  Word  of  God, 
therefore,  you  have  no  cause  to  fear.  "What  stress  are  you  under 
to  help  the  pope,  who  has,  from  time  immemorial,  pressed  so 
heavily  on  all  Germans  ?  Had  they  had,  in  former  times,  the  light 
of  the  Divine  Word,  as  it  now  shines  manifestly  and  clearly,  they 
had  rejoiced  in  nothing  so  much  as  in  getting  quit  of  the  burden 
of  Rome.  Perceive  you  not  that  all  priests,  let  them  wear  cowls 
or  not,  from  the  highest  to  the  lowest,  have  sworn  fealty  to  the 
pope?  Wlio,  except  in  tliis  case,  has  ever  suffered  his  subjects 
to  take  the  oath  of  allegiance  to  a  foreign  and  distant  potentate, 
to  the  hurt  and  damage  of  his  own  kingdom?  In  consequence 
of  this  very  oath,  gold  has  gone  in  cart-loads  to  Eome  from  the 
estates  of  ecclesiastics.  All  that  the  pope  has  bidden  or  for- 
bidden to  be  done,  has  been  with  the  view  of  getting  money." 

Thus  Zwingli  laboured  for  the  extension  and  cultivation  of 
evangelical  truth  in  Germany,  penetrating  with  a  clear  glance 
the  designs  of  the  enemy,  embracing  with  his  large  heart  all  the 
friends  of  God's  Word,  and  contributing  to  them,  according  to  the 
measure  of  those  powers  with  which  God  had  so  richly  endowed 
him,  instruction,  encouragement,  and  consolation.  Whoever  was 
forced  to  abandon  the  field,  and  flee  from  Germany,  found  in 
Zwingli  a  friend  and  protector,  and  in  evangelical  Switzerland  an 
asylum  and  a  home.  Amid  many  examples,  we  shall  only  men- 
tion one  of  these,  Ulricli  von  Hutten,  the  gallant  knight,  who, 
with  chivalric  courage,  had  dared  to  throw  down  the  gauntlet  to 
the  Eomanists,  and  had  electrified  Germany  with  the  boldness 
and  vigour  of  his  writings,  came  to  find  a  resting-place  in  his 
last  days,  and  a  grave  for  his  bones,  in  Switzerland,  after  his 
friend  Franz  von  Sickengen  had  closed  a  hero's  eye  in  death 
under  the  ruins  of  his  castle  of  Sandstuhl.  Eepulsed  and  per- 
secuted with  great  bitterness  of  spirit  by  his  former  friend 
Erasmus,  without  money,  and  tormented  by  a  painful  and  soul- 
crushing  disease,  he  directed  his  steps  to  Zwingli  at  Zurich. 
Zwingli  gave  no  ear  to  the  detractions  and  warnings  of  Erasmus, 
l3ut  prociu'ed  to  his  unfortunate  brother  in  the  faith  the  protec- 
tion of  the  Zurich  magistracy,  and  the  means  to  enable  him  to 


CIRCULAR  LETTER  TU  PETER  SEBILLA.  203 

visit  the  mineral  Laths  of  Pfeffer,  to  alleviate  his  bodily  pains. 
Jiut  the  healing  power  of  these  waters  could  no  longer  master  an 
inveterate  disease;  yet  his  soul,  animated  and  strengthened  hy 
Zwingli's  friendship,  raised  itself  once  more  to  the  joyful  hope 
"  that  God  woidd  again  nmster  the  scattered  friends  of  truth,  and 
humble  their  adversaries."  Through  Zwingli's  mediation,  the 
bold  knight  who  excused  his  liery  combative  zeal  against  the 
Komanists,  which  had  brought  him  so  many  sorrows,  with  the 
words,  "  I  cannot  help  God's  having  burdened  me  with  such  a 
spirit  as  I  have,  so  that  common  pain  affects  me  more  deeply, 
and  pierces  me  more  to  the  heart  than  other  men,"  found  at 
once  a  peaceful  asylum  and  medical  aid  with  a  friend  of  the 
Keformer's.  This  was  pastor  Schnegg,  who  resided  on  the  island 
Ufenan,  in  the  lake  of  Zurich,  and  who  had  devoted  his  attention 
to  medicine.  Under  his  roof  the  life-weary  warrior  expired,  at 
the  end  of  August  1523,  and  with  him  German  kniglilhood  was 
borne  to  the  grave.  The  fiery  and  impetuous  warrior  Iri't  no  wealth 
behind  him,  no  furniture,  no  books — nothing  but  a  j^en. 


5.  Zwingli's  Circular  Letter  to  Peter  Sebilla;  his  Zeal 
FOR  THE  Extension  of  the  Gospel  in  France. 

If  the  knight  Ulrich  von  Hutten  came  to  Zurich  like  a  mes- 
senger of  death,  bringing  the  intelligence  to  Zwingli  of  the 
decease  of  Gennan  cliivalry,  the  heart  of  the  Keformer  was 
rejoiced  in  the  same  year  by  the  visit  of  a  French  knight,  bearing 
the  welcome  tidings  that  the  light  of  the  gospel  had  begun  to 
dawn  on  France.  Aneniund  Coctus,  a  warm  friend  of  the 
Eeformation  in  France,  who  laboured  for  its  advancement,  under- 
took a  journey  to  Switzerland  and  Germany,  for  the  pui'pose  of 
making  the  personal  acquaintance  of  Zwingli  and  Luther.  The 
pai-son  of  Grenoble,  Peter  Sebilla,  had  expressed  to  Coctus  his 
resolution  to  preach  the  gospel  clearly  and  purely.  Coctus 
accordingly  begged  of  Zwingli  at  his  visit  that  he  would  confimi 
tliis  new  evangelist  in  his  purpose,  and  encourage  him  to  per- 
severance. Willingly  the  Keformer  undertook  the  task,  and  sent 
him  a  letter,  from  which  we  extract  the  following:  "\Vh(»  knows 
nut  how  the  pun>  tiue  d'ntrine  of  Clirist  has,  bj- cunning  and 


204  CIRCULAE  LETTER  TO  PETER  SEBILLA. 

lies,  been  defaced,  darkened,  and  disfigured,  so  that  there  failed 
little  of  its  total  extinction.  But  the  Lord  of  Sabaoth  has  still  a 
little,  a  very  little  seed  left  behind,  from  which,  as  we  hope,  a 
rich  harvest  will  spring  up ;  for  the  strength  of  the  heavenly  seed 
is  like  that  of  mustard-seed,  which,  is  the  least  of  all  seeds ;  but 
when  it  grows  up,  it  becomes  the  greatest  of  the  herbs,  and  be- 
comes a  tree,  so  that  the  birds  of  heaven  come  and  nestle  in  its 
branches.  The  seed,  however,  is,  to  speak  with  Christ,  the  Word 
of  God,  which,  when  it  falls  on  good  land  brings  forth  a  most 
abundant  crop.  In  this  Word,  the  poor  human  soul,  not  only 
tossed  to  and  fro  by  the  storms  of  life,  but  distracted  also  by  the 
snares  of  the  spirits  of  darkness,  finds  repose  and  life.  Therefore, 
you  have  well  done  in  undertaking  to  preach  this  Word  purely 
and  with  all  fidelity,  as  appears  from  your  letter  to  Anemundus 
Truly,  flesh  and  blood  have  not  moved  you  to  this,  but  your 
Father  in  heaven  has  so  drawn  you  to  himself  that  you  believing 
His  Word,  desire  to  bring  others  also  to  enjoy  the  like  precious 
faith.  Far  be  it  from  you.  Do  not,  however,  undertake  to  put 
up  a  building  without  having  first  sat  down  and  counted  the 
cost."  Zwingli,  after  having  described  in  strong  colours  the 
dangers  to  which  the  preacher  of  the  gospel  is  exposed,  continues : 
"  If  my  words  have  attained  their  purpose,  then  provided  you  be 
carnally-minded,  I  have  disposed  you  rather  to  seek  some  hole 
or  corner  where  you  may  hide  yourself,  than  to  appear  before 
your  congregation  proclaiming  the  gospel.  But  the  Spirit  of 
Christ  that  has  moved  you  to  begin,  will  not  allow  you  to  do  this, 
for  this  Spirit  rather  urges  onward  in  the  prospect  of  suffering 
than  holds  back  or  terrifies.  On,  then,  noble  soldier  of  the 
cross,  advance  into  thy  France  armed  with  the  weapons  of  Christ, 
proclaim  with  the  sound  of  a  trumpet  the  gospel  of  Christ,  how- 
ever much  the  Papistical  crew  may  fight  against  it.  Christ  has 
already  sounded  the  war-note  of  attack  against  the  Scribes,  Phari- 
sees, and  hypocrites  of  our  day.  Who  will  not  gladly  arm  himself 
to  battle?  '  The  lion  roars,'  says  the  prophet,  '  who  is  not  afraid?' 
Wlio,  in  the  host  of  the  enemy,  will  stand  when  Christ  thunders 
upon  them  through  His  servants?  Fear  and  trembling  fill  their 
camp.  They  turn  and  twist  themselves,  in  doubt  and  uncertainty 
what  to  do.  And  although,  through  the  princes  they  have  gained 
over  to  their  side,  they  should  slaughter  the  fiock  of  Christ,  yet  they 


ZEAL  FUR  THE  EXTENSION  OF  THE  ClOSPEL  IN  FlIANCE.       205 

tlu'inselve.s  are  coworin^"\vith  fear  lest  an  a\Wnl  stonn  hrciik  loo.se 
upon  their  heads;  or  when  they  atteni]>t  to  conil)at  with  the  Serip- 
ture,  the  woi-ds  are  congealed  in  their  mouth,  in  the  consciousness 
that  they  do  violence  to,  and  Merest  the  Holy  Word  of  God.  Why  do 
we  not  break  forth  in  a  storming  attack  against  the  cowards,  in 
confidence  upon  the  protection  of  the  Divine  AVord  ?  God  will 
destroy  anti-Christ  hy  the  breath  of  His  mouth.  Christ  is  for 
us,  who  then  can  be  against  us  ?  Although  A\-e  be  but  weak 
vessels,  yet  none  can  break  us  as  long  as  the  Lord  is  on  our  side ; 
according  to  His  promise,  '  I  am  with  you  alway,  even  to  the  end 
oftheworkl'  Why  linger,  then?  Ours  is  the  victory.  Heaven 
and  earth  shall  sooner  pass  away  than  that  the  Word  of  God 
shall  deceive  us.  Above  all,  however,  it  is  needful,  if  you  will 
rejoice  in  the  victory,  to  deny  yourself  and  die  daily.  But  such 
you  cannot  do  of  your  own  strength,  therefore  you  nmst  take 
your  refuge  to  the  alone  mercy  of  God,  and  pray  with  your  whole 
heart  that  He  would  be  pleased  to  direct  your  steps,  to  illuminate 
your  soul,  and  to  strengthen  your  heart.  Then  the  grace  of  God 
will  give  you  sagacity  to  choose  the  best  ways  and  the  best 
means,  and  strength  to  overcome  all.  You  see,  my  Cliristian 
brother,  what  advances  the  gospel  has  made  in  Germany  in  a 
short  time,  which  will  l>e  the  case  with  you  too,  if  you  call  upon 
God  to  grant  success.  And  He  rejoices  when  we  call  upon  Him, 
for  He  is  our  friend,  and  delights  himself  in  our  souls.  Fare- 
well, set  your  confidence  upon  the  Lord,  and  upon  the  might  of 
His  strength,  which  will  preserve  you  unscathed  in  every  trial." 
This  soul-stirring  address  of  Zwingli's  was  not  without  its  due 
effect,  and  the  more  so,  as  AncnuuKhis  Coctus  caused  it  to  be 
printed.  The  gospel-message  winged  its  way  to  the  heart  of 
France  with  the  force  and  the  rapidity  of  lightning.  But  the 
Lord  had  appointed  His  sen%ants  in  this  land,  above  all  others,  to 
attest  the  reality  of  their  faith  by  the  l)aptism  of  suffering;  from 
the  ver}^  first  the  confessors  of  the  gospel  were  persecuted  by  t\w. 
enemies  of  it  with  fire  and  sword.  "  I  could  name  a  gi-eat  people," 
Zwingli  ^^Tote  in  reference  to  the  Fi-ench,  "  from  Mhich  more  than 
any  other  the  gospel  has  been  forcibly  excluded,  tliat  it  reacli 
them  neither  by  word  of  mouth  nor  in  writing.  But  God  has  so 
wTought  that  this  same  land  is  well-informed  in  respecl  of  His 
Word,  and  stands  in  a  good  relation  towards  God,  although  they 


206  CORKESPONDENCE  WITH  EGIDIUS. 

dare  not  make  any  outward  confession."  A  regard  to  tliis  condi- 
tion of  the  people,  and  the  prayers  of  his  evangelical  friends  in 
France,  induced  Zwingli  to  dedicate  his  principal  work,  "  Com- 
mentary upon  the  True  and  False  Religions,"  to  Francis  I.,  King 
of  France,  and  to  impress  on  his  heart  with  all  freedom  of  spirit 
the  duty  of  allowing  the  gospel  to  be  preached  in  his  dominions. 
There  seemed  reason  to  hope  that  this  step  might  not  be  fruitless, 
the  sister  of  the  king,  Margaretha,  afterwards  Queen  of  Navarre, 
being  a  decided  friend  of  the  gospel,  and  the  mother  of  the  king 
for  a  time  making  a  profession  of  favouring  it.  But  the  heart  of 
the  king  remained  closed  against  its  divine  influences,  and  both 
before  and  after  his  arm  was  heavy  upon  the  faithful  in  this  land, 
so  that  there  remained  for  them  no  other  choice  but  either  to 
conceal  the  jewel  of  faith  from  the  eyes  of  the  world,  or  to  aban- 
don their  home,  that  is,  if  they  would  escape  bonds,  the  dungeon, 
or  a  martyr's  death. 


6.  ZwiNGLi's  Correspondence  with  the  Augustine  Monk  of 
CoMO ;  HIS  Measures  for  the  Extension  of  the  Gospel  in 
Italy. 

The  state  of  the  friends  of  the  gospel  in  Italy  was  not  a  more 
cheering  one,  although  here,  too,  an  ardent  longing  for  evangeli- 
cal freedom  manifested  itself.  We  shall  only  refer  here  to  a  single 
case  in  the  spiritual  movement  which  at  this  time  took  place  in 
Italy.  It  will,  on  the  one  hand,  serve  to  shew  in  what  esteem 
Zwingli  there  stood,  and,  on  the  other  hand^  it  will  afford  us  a 
view  of  the  progress  and  issue  of  the  Reformation  in  this  benighted 
country.  In  Como,  an  Augustine  monk,  Egidius  a  Porta,  had 
been  enlightened  liy  the  reading  of  Zwingli's  writings  in  regard 
to  the  unprofitableness  of  monkery  and  outward  works,  so  that, 
like  Saul  on  the  way  to  Damascus,  he  recognised  himself  sud- 
denly with  horror  as  a  persecutor  of  Christ.  "  If  I  cannot  be  a 
Paul  in  all  things,"  he  writes  to  Zwingli,  "  be  thou,  at  least,  an 
Ananias,  to  guide  my  erring  footsteps  upon  the  path  of  peace. 
Fourteen  years  ago,  I  let  myself  be  led  by  what  I,  in  my  ignor- 
ance at  that  time,  considered  to  be  pious  zeal,  to  withdraw  from 
the  guardianship  of  my  parents  and  turn  Augustine  monk,  think- 


EXTENSION  OF  THE  OOSPEL  IN  ITALY.  207 

iiij^,  with  the  Pelagians,  to  attain  salvation  through  works.  Tlius 
1  have  taken  much  trouble  not  to  he  pioiis  and  learned,  but  to  he 
esteemed  pious  and  learned ;  and  entangled  in  this  error,  I  held,  O 
shame,  for  seven  years,  the  otlice  of  a  preacher  of  the  gospel.  All 
Christian  knowledge  has  failed  me,  inasmuch  as  I  attril)uted 
nothing  to  faith  and  all  to  good  works.  With  boldness  and  con- 
fidence I  taught  my  people  to  trust  to  these,  and  who  can  reckon 
up  the  amount  of  poisonous  error  that  I  have  spread  over  the 
field  of  the  Lord  ?  In  truth,  I  can  say,  I  have  persecuted  the 
Church  of  Christ.  But  the  Lord,  according  to  his  goodness,  would 
not  that  his  servant  should  perish  for  ever;  he  has  shaken  me 
thoroughly,  and  cast  me  to  the  ground.  The  light  of  my  own 
eyes  which  I  trusted  is  quenched,  my  lips  are  dumb  till  I  have 
begun  to  cry  hoarsely:  Lord,  what  wilt  Thou  have  me  to  do?  At 
length  the  consoling  message  came  to  my  heart ;  go  to  Iluldreich 
Zwingli,  he  will  teach  thee  what  thou  oughtest  to  do.  0  glorious 
•message,  that  filled  my  soul  with  unspeakable  peace.  Thou,  or 
much  more,  God,  through  thee,  will  deliver  my  soul  out  of  the 
snare  of  the  hunters." 

Zwingli  put  his  evangelical  friends  in  Como  in  mind  that, 
besides  working  out  their  own  salvation,  it  was  their  duty  to 
labour  for  the  extension  of  gospel  truth  throughout  their  native 
land,  and  he  called  upon  Egidius  a  Porta,  especially,  to  translate 
the  New  Testament  into  Italian,  which  he  would  get  printed  for 
him  in  Zurich.  A  Porta  followed  wdth  Christian  submission  the 
advice  of  his  revered  friend.  "  I  trust  in  God,"  says  he,  "  that 
this  tree,"  speaking  of  himself,  "  planted  so  far  from  the  refresh- 
ing streams,  will  in  time  bear  fruit."  He  laments  bitterly  the 
interruption  his  w^ork  experienced  by  the  thousand  petty  duties 
he  had  to  perform  in  obedience  to  his  monkish  vows.  At  lengtli 
he  begs  and  conjures  Zwingli,  in  the  name  of  his  fellow-brethren, 
to  write  to  the  superintendent  of  their  order,  and  establish,  by 
passages  from  Holy  Writ,  how  it  was  the  will  of  God  that  His 
Word  should  be  j)urely  and  fully  preached,  and  that  He  is  in  the 
highest  degree  indignant  when  it  is  adulterated,  and  human  con- 
ceits passed  cuiTent  as  the  will  of  God.  Tims  brightly  burned  in 
this  faithful  bosom  an  ardent  desire  for  Christian  knowledge  and 
evangelical  freedom,  which  he  wished  to  (il)tain  also  for  his 
unhappy  countrymen,  who  gioaned  under  a  severe  oppression, 


208  EXTENSION  OF  THE  GOSPEL  IN  ITALY. 

temporal  and  spiritual.  But  suddenly  tlie  letters  stopped.  The 
monk  disappeared,  and  with  him  the  begun  translation  of  the 
New  Testament.  We  can  scarcely  go  wrong  in  supposing  that 
the  arm  of  avenging  Eome  reached  him  as  it  did  many  others, 
and  threw  him  into  some  dark  dungeon,  there  to  atone  for  his 
pure  and  ardent  love  to  the  faith ;  for  thus  Eome  was  wont  to 
extinguish  the  flame  of  the  Eeformation  when  it  burst  forth 
brightly  for  a  moment  in  different  quarters  in  Italy. 

We  have  thus  seen  that  Zwingli,  at  the  same  time  that  he 
carried  the  great  work  of  the  Eeformation  into  practical  accom- 
plishment at  Zurich,  advanced  it  in  the  whole  of  Switzerland, 
France,  and  Italy,  according  to  the  measure  of  the  grace  given 
him  by  God.  As  the  mountains  of  his  native  country,  illu- 
minated by  God's  sun,  and  bathed  by  the  dew  of  heaven,  stand 
great  and  majestic  under  the  azure  canopy,  thus  stood  this  Chris- 
tian hero  in  the  full  blaze  of  Divine  truth,  and  while  he  himself 
drew  out  of  the  fulness  of  God,  and  grace  for  grace,  he  sent,  by  • 
his  instructions,  his  consolations,  his  admonitions,  the  refreshing 
streams  of  God's  salvation  to  all  the  neighbouring  lands.  Yet 
will  the  merit  of  his  labours  be  seen  in  a  stronger  light,  when 
we  consider  the  obstacles  and  the  opposition  which  the  Eeformer 
had  to  encounter  in  his  great  and  glorious  work. 


SIXTH   SECTION. 


REACTIONARY  MEASURES  OF  THE   J'APAL  PARTY  FOR  CUIECK- 
ING  AND  SUPPRESSING  THE  REFORMATION. 


'•Yea,  the  time  nmieth,  that  whosoever  killeth  you  will  think  tliat  he  (U)Ctli 
God  service.  Ami  these  things  will  they  do  unto  yon.  hee:lll^e  they  Imve  not 
known  the  Father,  nor  nic." — John  xvi.  2,  .3. 


1.  The  Overtures  of  the  Pope  and  the  Intrigues  of  Fakkr 

ARE  ALIKE  UNABLE  TO  SHAKE  ZwiNGLl'S  FaITH. 

The  more  we  consider  the  precij)i(iition  witli  wliicli  Rome  ful- 
minated her  damning  edicts  against  the  heralds  of  evangelical 
tiiith,  which  were  often  carried  into  execution  l\y  fire  and  sword, 
the  more  must  we  feel  astonished  and  surprised  at  the  advances 
which  the  popes  more  than  once  made  towards  Zwingli.  He 
had  already  gained  a  decided  victory  over  Faber  and  the  Roman- 
ists. In  the  Religioiis  Disputation  he  had,  in  very  clear  and 
unmistakable  language,  declared  his  secession  from  the  Pope. 
He  had  alreaily  ])rofessed  his  faith  in  the  gospel,  when  the 
Iioman  Legate,  Ennius,  appeared  in  Zurich,  with  a  letter  from  Pope 
Adrian  IV.,  addressed  to  Zwingli,  from  which  we  extract  the  fol- 
lowing: "xVlthough  it  is  commanded  to  our  Nuntius,  to  treat,  in 
regard  to  our  aftairs,  with  all  your  people  openly  and  in  Cf)mmon, 
yet  have  we  commissioned  our  said  Xuntius,  inasmuch  as  we 
have  a  more  exact  knowledge  of  your  distinguished  merits,  and 
repose  an  especial  confidence  in  yoiir  obedience,  to  deliver  to 
you  this  our  letter  ])ersonally,  and  to  testify  to  you  our  favour- 
able disposition.  AVe  exhort  you  also  to  give  all  crediMice  to  the 
said  Nuntius,  and  with  the  like  disposition  in  which  we  are 
dispo.sed  to  consult  your  honour  and  advantage,  to  labour  in  tlie 
affairs  of  us  and  the  apostolical  chair,  whereby  you  will  have  reason 
to  rejoice  in  our  xory  peculiar  favour  and  regard."  What  were 
the  overtures  made  to  the  Reformer  we  learn  from  the  following 
statements  made   by  himself  and   Dr.    Francis   Zingg.     In   the 

o 


210  ZWINGLl'S  STEADFAST  FAITH. 

Exposition  of  the  87th  Ai'ticle  of  his  Propositions,  Zwingli  writes 
on  this  subject  (in  the  summer  of  1523):  "A  few  days  ago  I 
have  received,  both  by  letter  and  by  word  of  mouth,  great  pro- 
mises from  the  Pope,  wliich  I  have  answered  as  God  will,  in  a 
Christian  and  unmoved  frame  of  mind.  It  is,  however,  no  matter 
of  doubt  that  I  could  attain  to  a  greatness  such  as  not  every  one 
could  reach  to,  if  the  poverty  of  Christ  were  not  dearer  to  me  than 
the  worldly  pomp  of  the  papists."  To  his  teacher  and  friend, 
Thomas  Wyttenbach,  he  wrote,  on  the  15th  June  1523,  in  refer- 
ence to  the  same  subject:  "  God  grant  the  Swiss  people  a  sense 
to  understand  and  love  His  Word,  for  the  Pope  of  Eome  is  seek- 
ing anew  to  press  his  yoke  upon  them.  To  me,  too,  he  has  sent 
a  brief,  under  the  fisherman's  ring,*  with  brilliant  promises ;  but 
I  despatched  the  messenger  with  an  answer  according  to  his 
merits,  telling  him  in  plain  language,  that  I  believed  the  Pope 
to  be  anti-Christ."  To  attain  his  object  mtli  reference  to  Zwin- 
gli more  surely,  the  Pope  had  also  written  to  his  friend.  Dr. 
Francis  Zingg  of  Einsiedeln,  and  begged  him  to  gain  the  Eeformer 
for  Eome  by  the  like  prospects  already  opened  up  to  him  by 
Ennius.  Zingg  being  afterwards  asked  by  Myconius  what  he 
was  empowered  to  offer  Zwingli,  replied,  "  all  hut  the  papal  chair." 
No  ecclesiastical  distinction  would  have  been  too  brilliant,  no 
living  too  lucrative,  no  sum  of  money  too  large,  had  Zwingli  con- 
sented for  such  a  price  to  become,  instead  of  a  disciple  of  Christ, 
a  disciple  of  the  Pope.  Eome  was  made  to  experience  with  deep 
shame  that  the  crown  of  thorns  and  the  cross  of  Christ  are  dearer 
to  the  believer  than  all  the  glory  and  riches  of  a  depraved  church. 
None  felt  more  painfully  all  the  shame  of  this  refusal  than  the 
General- Vicar  Faber.  For  gold  and  posts  of  honour  he  had  him- 
self travelled  to  Eome.  He  had,  at  the  feet  of  the  Pope,  for  a 
miserable  Judas-reward,  belied  his  better  conviction,  and  betrayed 
his  Saviour.  Now  he  had  to  look  on  the  friend  of  his  youth, 
who  had  already,  in  a  manner  so  brilliant,  defeated  him  in  the 
Eeligious  Disputation,  and  dealt  at  the  same  time  the  severest 
wounds  on  the  Eomish  Church,  despismg,  with  a  Christian  mag- 
nanimity, all  those  great  offers — offers,  too,  which,  so  to  say,  were 
brought  to  his  very  door  at  Zurich  and  laid  at  his  feet.  This 
double  discomfiture  scorched  as  with  a  flame  his  soul  within  him, 
*  The  papal  seal,  on  which  Peter  is  represented  as  a  fisherman. 


ZWINC.Ll  S  STKADFAST  FAITH.  I'll 

and  he  iinw  callril  iiilu  pUiy  every  engine  of  ealuimiy  and  nf 
seci-et  intrigue,  that  ho  might,  if  possible,  annihilate  Zwingli. 
"  I  liave,  as  truly  as  that  Christ  is  gracious,"  so  wrote;  Ambrosius 
Hlaarer  on  this  subject  to  Zwingli,  "compassion  with  the  miserable, 
man,  and  the  more  so  the  less  that  he  knows  his  own  wretched- 
ness. We  will  pray  that  he  obtain  a  new  heart,  that  for  the 
future  he  may  be  ashamed  to  have  recourse  to  such  desperate 
expeilients."'  Tlie  Legate  Ennius,  on  recemng  this  repulse  to  the 
papal  overtures,  went  straight  to  Faber  at  Constance,  and  there 
the  jilan  was  discussed  by  these  minions  of  liome  for  annihilat- 
ing the  Reformer,  and  destroying  his  work.  Zwingli,  informed 
from  ditierent  quarters  of  the  threatening  danger,  wrote  to  his 
friend,  Werner  Steiner,  in  Zug:  "I  am  told  that  Faber  and  tlie 
l)apal  Legate,  Ennius,  design  to  attack  me  in  some  dangerous 
manner.  Had  I,  however,  at  any  time  feared  secret  attacks,  I 
should  never  have  formed  so  strong  a  resolution  as  I  have  done 
to  preach  the  gospel.  It  is  my  wish  that  my  adversaries  come 
forward  openly,  they  will  then  see  how  mightily  Christ  protects 
me."  For  the  execution  of  their  nefarious  designs,  the  inhabit- 
ants of  the  five  cantons  of  Lucerne,  Uri,  Sclnvyz,  L^nterwalden. 
and  Zug,  appeared  to  be  the  fittest  instruments.  Here  an  ignor- 
ant and  coniipt  clergy  wielded  a  fatal  power  over  the  conscience, 
while  adroit  and  reckless  demagogues,  who  in  foreign  military 
service  had  gained  themselves  riches  and  standing  at  the  cost  of 
their  sacrificed  countiy,  guided  with  violence  or  cunning  accord- 
ing to  the  caprice  or  exigencies  of  the  moment  the  Councils  and 
the  comnmnities.  Freiburg  in  Uechtland  and  Wallis  formed  a 
close  league  with  all  these  papal  cantons.  Berne  hovered  between 
the  papacy  and  the  gospel,  a  vacillation  which  arose  from  tlie 
cu'cumstance  that  a  large  part  of  the  nobility  were  averse  to 
evangelical  preaching  because  of  its  forbidding  foreign  .ser\dce. 
This  party,  hostile  to  the  Reformer,  and  wliich,  in  the  Confede- 
rate Diet,  formed  an  ovenvhebning  majority,  was  to  be  employed 
by  Faber  and  the  Romish  Legate  for  suppressing  Zwingli  and  Iiis 
work.  Ah'cady  had  the  resolution  been  come  to  under  this  influ- 
ence at  a  Diet  in  Berne  to  take  the  Reformer  prisoner  wherever 
he  could  be  met  with  out  of  Zurich.  Wiiat  his  fate  would  liave 
been,  a  carnival  sport  enacted  at  Lucerne,  in  the  presence  of  a 
vast  concourse  of  people,  shews.    A  man  of  straw,  with  Zwingli's 


212  PEESECUTION  OP  THE  EVANGELICAL  PAETY. 

name  affixed  to  it,  was  dragged  to  the  place  of  public  execution, 
and  there  burned  as  a  heretic.  Some  inhabitants  of  Zurich,  "W'ho 
happened  to  be  in  Lucerne  at  the  time,  were  forced  to  witness  the 
malicious  spectacle.  Zwingli,  on  hearing  of  this  display  of  spite, 
wrote  to  his  friends,  Zimmermann  and  Kirchmeier,  in  Lucerne : 
"  I  rejoice  that  I  have  been  thouglit  worthy  among  you  to  suffer 
shame  for  the  name  of  Christ.  I  have,  thank  God,  improbable  as 
it  may  seem,  borne  no  insult  with  greater  equanimity  than  this. 
Your  hope  must  ever  grow  more  and  more  that  Christ  will  not 
forsake  His  own." 


2.  The  Papistically  disposed  majokity  of  the  Diet  gives  the 

SIGNAL   FOE   THE  PeESECUTION    OF  THE  EVANGELICAL   PAETY. 

Nicolas  Hottingee  is  impeisoned  and  executed  ;  OEchsli's 
impeisonment  ;  Hans  AVieth  and  his  Sons  ;  Buekhaed 
Ruetimann  ;  Zueich's  dangeeous  state. 

There  was  great  need  for  such  a  confidence,  because  the  war- 
party  in  the  papal  cantons,  stirred  up  by  Faber  and  the  Eomish 
legate,  began  now  to  take  strong  measures  against  the  preaching 
of  the  gospeL  On  the  26th  January  1524,  a  series  of  resolu- 
tions were  passed  at  a  Diet  held  in  Lucerne,  and  pubhshed  in 
nineteen  articles,  having  for  their  object  the  maintenance  of  the 
Papacy,  and  the  suppression  of  evangelical  truth.  They  contained, 
amongst  others,  the  following  decrees :  "All  the  ancient  and  praise- 
worthy rites  and  customs  of  the  Christian  Church,  shall  continue 
to  be  observed  as  formerly  by  clergy  and  laymen."  "  None  shall 
speak  or  dispute  in  the  taverns,  or  over  wine,  upon  the  Lutheran 
or  new  doctrines."  "Every  one,  whoever  he  be,  man  or  woman, 
young  or  old,  is  called  upon,  in  virtue  of  his  oath,  wherever  he 
sees  one  or  other  of  the  articles  infringed  upon,  to  testify  the 
same  to  our  lords  the  governors  and  their  officers."  AVlien  these 
articles,  which  all  the  states,  with  the  exception  of  Zurich, 
accepted,  came  to  be  published  throughout  the  countiy,  "  the 
papists  and  their  partizans,"  as  Bullinger  writes,  "rejoiced,  but 
true  believers  lamented."  The  signal  for  persecution  of  the 
evangelicals  was  here  given  by  the  highest  civil  authority  in  the 
land,  "  the  Diet,"  and  it  was  followed  even  to  blood.     The  terri- 


NICOLAS  HOTTINOER  IMPRISONED.  213 

toiy  of  tlie  so-called  "  Common  Lordships,"*  was  ilw  principal 
theatre  on  which  it  displayed  itself.  AVliile  the  Zurich  guv(n-- 
nors  here  forwarded  the  Keformation,  those  of  the  papal  cantons, 
according  to  tlu'ir  instructions,  sought  in  every  way  possible  to 
suppress  it.  The  first  victim  of  lloman  persecution  was  the 
shoemaker,  Nicolas  Hottinger  of  Zurich,  whom  we  have  men- 
tioned above  as  a  zealous  but  somewhat  rash  and  impetuous 
friend  of  the  Reformation.  Banished  for  two  years  from  Zurich 
for  his  autocratic  removal  of  the  crucifix  from  Stadelhofen,  he 
sojourned  during  this  period  in  the  neighbouring  county  of  ]-5adeii. 
Following  his  trade  here,  he  neglected  no  opportunity  of  giving 
expression  to  his  religious  convictions.  In  Zuzach  he  had  once 
said  in  the  "  Angel"  inn:  "The  IJomish  priests  interpret  Scrip- 
ture falsely,  and  do  not  perform  tlie  mass  according  to  the  institu- 
tion of  Christ,  "^^'e  nmst  place  our  consolation  and  ho])e  alone 
in  God,  and  in  none  else."  On  one  of  his  fellow-shoemakers, 
John  Schuetz  of  Sclmeisingen,  asking  him,  "  What  is't  with  the 
new  faith  which  the  Zurich  preachers  are  bringing  in?"  he  replied, 
"  They  preach  nothing  but  the  pure  Word  of  God,  and  the  true 
gospel  of  salvation.  Above  all,  they  teach  and  prove  by  Holy 
Scripture  that  Christ  died  once  for  all  for  all  believers,  that  He 
has  by  this  one  sacrifice  cleansed  them  from  all  sin,  and  redeemed 
them,  and  that  consequently  the  mass  is  a  sin  and  a  lie."  Speeches 
like  these  were  conveyed  to  the  ears  of  the  popish-minded  gover- 
nor in  Baden,  Fleckenstein  of  Lucerne,  who  forthwith  gave  the 
order  to  imprison  the  zealous  advocate  of  the  gospel.  Suddenly 
Hottinger,  at  the  end  of  Februaiy  152-i,  was  seized  in  Coblence, 
when  on  a  journey  connected  with  his  calling,  and  carried  pri- 
soner, first  of  all  to  Baden,  and  afterwards  to  Lucerne.  T'pnn 
liis  steadfast  confession  of  his  faith,  Fleckenstein  cried  to  liim: 
"  Your  doings,  sir,  will  be  brought  before  a  court  where  you  will 
get  a  .sentence  according  to  your  merits."  On  which  Hottinger 
replied:  "  I  connuit  my  ca.se  to  God,  and  I  pray  to  Him,  through 

*  Unilcr  '■  Coinmou  Lordships"  arc  to  be  understood  those  Swiss  ]>rovinccs 
whiih,  from  tlie  tirruiiistaiuc  of  tlicir  having  hccn  acquired  liy  conquest,  were 
placed  under  the  jurisdiction  of  several  cantons,  and  ruled  alternately  br  gover- 
nors appointed  by  them.  Thus  Zurich  divided  the  ride  with  the  i>apal  cantons, 
and  in  i)art  with  IJerne,  over  the  former  county  of  IJaden,  the  free  domain  on 
the  Aargau,  Ueussthal,  Tiiurgau,  Rheinthal,  Sarganscrland.  and  the  four  Italian 
bailiwicks  in  the  present  canton  of  Tessin. 


214<  NICOLAS  HOTTINGER  EXECUTED. 

Jesiis  Clirist,  that  He  may  gi-acioiisly  preserve  me  in  His  tnitli 
till  deatli."  In  Lucerne  he  was,  notwithstanding  the  interven- 
tion of  his  mmierous  and  influential  friends,  as  Avell  as  of  the 
government  of  Zurich,  condemned  to  death  by  the  deputies  of 
the  twelve  places."  On  the  announcement  of  the  sentence,  he 
began  to  speak  of  God  and  the  redemption  through  Christ  Jesus, 
when  the  amman,  Troger  of  Uri,  angrily  interrupted  him :  "  We 
are  here  to  judge,  and  not  to  listen  to  sermons.  There  is  no  use 
of  talk ;  out  with  him."  Hottinger  said :  "  Let  it  be  done  to  me 
according  to  the  will  of  God,  and  may  He  forgive  their  sins  to 
all  them  who  are  against  me,  and  who  seek  my  death."  A  monk 
held  up  a  crucifix  to  his  mouth.  He  put  it  aside  with  the 
remark,  "  The  sufferings  of  Christ  must  l)e  engraven  on  the  heart 
by  faith.  Not  the  wooden  image  on  the  cross,  but  His  sufferings 
and  death,  have  obtained  for  us  salvation."  An  immense  multi- 
tude of  people  accompanied  him  to  the  place  of  execution,  many 
of  whom  were  so  touched  by  the  words  and  demeanour  of  the 
martyi',  that  they  wept  loudly.  "  The  Almighty  God,"  said  Hot- 
tinger, turning  to  the  people,  "  grant  you  His  grace,  that  you  may 
come  to  the  knowledge  of  the  truth,  and  be  saved."  Then  look- 
ing straight  up  to  heaven,  he  said,  with  a  loud  voice :  "  I  com- 
mend my  soul  into  Thy  hands,  0  my  Lord  and  my  Eedeemer 
Jesus  Christ;  have  mercy  upon  me,  and  receive  my  spirit." 
Having  thus  spoken,  he  bo\^'ed  his  head  with  patient  resignation 
to  the  stroke  of  death. 

While  the  impression  of  this  deed  of  blood,  wliich  gave  a 
lamentable  proof  of  the  cruel  severity  with  which  the  papal  can- 
tons were  prepared  to  suppress  the  Eeformation,  was  yet  fresh, 
there  came  a  deputation  from  "  the  twelve  places"  to  Zurich, 
to  move  this  state  to  depose  Zwingii,  and  to  desist  from  the 
work  they  had  commenced.  The  Council  of  Zuricli  answered 
in  writing  to  this  proposal :  "  We  will  do  in  all  respects,"  they 
say,  among  other  things,  "  as  far  as  in  us  lies  according  to  the 
terms  of  the  Charter,  as  becomes  true  and  loyal  Confederates. 
But  in  what  concerns  the  Word  of  God  and  the  salvation  of  our 
souls  and  our  conscience,  in  that  we  shall  not  yield."  In  the 
very  same  year,  1524,  a  Diet  was  held  at  Zug,  from  which  Zurich 
was  excluded,  in  wliich  a  letter  from  the  Pope  was  read  to 
the  delegates,  calling  upon  them  to  extirpate  heresy  within  the 


PARSON  (ECHSLIN  IMPRISONED.  I'l.) 

bounds  of  the  Confederacy.  A  fresh  deputation  wa.s  du.spatclu'd 
to  Zurich,  who  intimated  to  the  Council  of  this  state:  "Thcy 
were  forthwith  to  desist  from  the  begun  Reformation,  and  not, 
for  the  sake  of  two  or  three  persons,  to  throw  the  whole  Con- 
federacy into  a  state  of  conlusion  and  dissension."  If  they  would 
not  agree  to  this,  then  the  cantons  remaining  tiaie  to  the  faith 
of  their  fathers  should  forthwith  proceed  to  imprison  the  adherents 
of  tilt!  new  faith  wherever  they  found  them,  and  punish  them  in 
property  and  person,  nor  would  they  sutler  the  Zurich  deputies 
to  take  their  seats  with  them  in  the  Diet.  Zurich,  though  not  a 
little  dismayed  at  these  menaces,  returned  the  firm  and  dignified 
answer:  "In  matters  of  faith  we  shall  rule  ourselves  by  the  Word 
of  GocL  If  some  cantons  refuse  to  sit  with  us  in  the  Diet,  we 
liave  the  unshaken  confidence  that  God  the  Father,  Son,  and 
Holy  Spirit,  in  whose  name  the  Confederacy  was  founded,  and 
in  whom  alone  we  trust,  will  not  abandon  us,  and  that  we  at 
last,  through  gi'ace,  will  be  allowed  to  sit  ivith  Him." 

The  joyous  spirit  of  faith  which  animated  Zwingli  was  also 
shared  by  the  community  of  Zurich,  and  pervaded  the  coun- 
cils in  their  deliberations  and  resolutions.  But  on  the  other 
hand,  louder,  and  still  more  loud,  sounded  the  threatcnings  of 
the  Papists,  like  the  mui-murs  of  the  distant  thunder  in  the 
approaching  storm.  In  the  "  Common  Lordships,"  in  particular, 
the  evangelical  party  were  placed  in  imminent  danger  of  impri- 
sonment, and  of  suHering  the  utmost  for  the  faith,  during  those 
periods  when  they  came  to  be  ruled  by  papistically  disposed 
governors.  Under  such  cii'cumstances  it  was  that  the  EN\angeli- 
cals,  on  hearing  that  the  menaces  of  the  Ilomanists  were  on  the 
point  of  being  carried  into  execution,  bound  themselves  to  lend 
each  other  aid,  which  Was  also  rendered  in  some  communities  of 
Thurgau,  where  the  Swiss  governor  Amberg,  who  had  formerly 
made  a  hypocritical  profession  of  a  leaning  to  evangelical  doctrine, 
now  expressed  openly,  and  with  menaces,  his  hatred  against  it. 
Suddeidy,  and  at  a  hint  communicated  to  him  by  the  Diet 
in  Zug,  he  caused  Zwingli's  friend.  Parson  Q£chslin  of  T>urg,  by 
Stein,  upon  the  Ehine,  to  be  surprised  in  tlie  night  of  the  7th 
July  1524',  bound  and  carried  prisoner  to  Frauenfeld.  On  the 
ciy  of  lu.'lp  being  raised,  his  parishioners  hasten  intrepidly  to  the 
rescue  of  their  belovc<l  pa.stor ;  but  it  is  too  late.     The  watcli  of 


*2l(i  PARSON  (ECHSLIN  IMPRISONED. 

Burg  discharge  tlieii-  signal-guns,  and  the  alarm-bells  are  ringing 
through  the  whole  valley,  summoning  the  inhabitants  to  a 
general  levy.  With  the  men  of  Stammheim  came  the  under- 
governor  Hans  Wirth  and  his  two  sons,  Adrian  and  John,  two 
evangelical  ministers  full  of  faith  and  ardent  zeal  for  pure  doc- 
trine, while  among  the  men  of  Nussbaumen  appeared  the  under- 
governor  there,  Burkhard  Euetimann.  The  two  under  governors 
were  named  leaders  of  the  whole  body  that  had  assembled  in  a 
general  levy  to  free  their  beloved  pastor.  Arrived  at  the  right 
])ank  of  the  Thur,  they  were  obliged  to  halt,  the  feriy-boat  having 
been  removed.  The  leaders  employed  this  delay  to  bring  the 
excited  multitude  into  order,  which  was  the  more  necessary,  for 
unhappily,  as  usually  happens  in  popular  tumults,  some  bad 
characters  had  mixed  themselves  among  them.  From  this  place 
a  deputation  was  despatched  to  the  governor  at  Frauenfeld,  with 
the  request  that  he  would  liberate  the  imprisoned  pastor  against 
bail.  Some  were  even  for  rescuing  him  by  violence.  "  Pastor 
OEchslin,"  said  imder-governor  Wirth,  "  is  so  dear  and  worthy  a 
man,  that  I  would  ^villingly  give  all  I  have,  nay,  the  heart  in  my 
body,  for  him."  Contrary  to  custom,  and  to  all  justice,  the 
governor  Amberg  refused  to  accept  bail,  and  to  set  free  the  pri- 
soner. In  the  meantime  the  enraged  mob  had  turned  their 
attention  to  the  near-lying  and  rich  Carthusian  monastery  of 
Ittingen,  whose  prior  was  said  to  have  been  in  the  habit  of  stir- 
ring up  the  governor  to  measures  of  severity  against  the  evan- 
gelicals. The  doors  of  the  cloister  were  burst  open,  and  the  mob 
poured  itself,  hungry  and  thirsty,  and  in  part  desirous  of  plun- 
der, over  the  church,  cloister,  cellar,  and  store-houses.  In  vain 
were  the  entreaties  and  exhortations  of  under-governor  Wirtli 
and  his  sons,  as  well  as  of  Kuetimann.  With  the  better  part  of 
the  people  these  departed,  after  they  had  first  slaked  their 
thirst  at  the  cloister  well.  After  tlieir  departure  a  fire  broke 
out  in  the  chambers  of  the  cloister,  which  burned  this  ricli 
monastery  to  the  ground.  According  to  report  an  angiy  father, 
whose  son  had  been  torn  by  a  boar  belonging  to  the  cloister,  set 
fire  to  it. 

The  smoking  embers  of  the  Carthusian  monastery  gave  to  tlie 
hatred  of  the  papal  cantons  against  the  evangelicals  a  fresh 
stimulus,  and  inflamed  them  to  the  fiercest  hostility.     Zurich, 


1IANS>  WIRTH  AND  HIS  SONS  IMPRISONED.  217 

imleed,  as  suuu  as  it  heard  of  the  riot,  eonnuaiuletl  all  its  sub- 
jects who  had  taken  part  in  it  to  return  home.  It  also  pro- 
mised to  institute  a  strict  and  impartial  investigation  into  the 
wliole  uti'air.  The  Diet  was  adjourned  l)y  the  papal  cantons  to 
Beckenried.  A  bloody  revenge  was  called  for.  The  implicated 
communities,  nay,  Zurich  itself,  were  threatened  with  war,  and 
it  -was  sworn  to  extirpate  the  heretical  doctrine  with  fire  and 
sword. 

The  under-governor  AVirth  and  his  sons,  who  had  been  long 
objects  of  hatred  on  account  of  their  evangelical  opinions,  as  also 
Burkhard  Euetiniann  were  accused,  if  not  of  having  themselves 
set  fire  to  the  monastery,  at  least  of  having  instigated  to  it.  "  If 
any  one  be  guilty,"  said  the  Zurich  Council,  "  let  him  be  punished, 
but  legally,  and  not  by  violence."  To  prevent  farther  mischief, 
this  state  resolved  to  cause  those  who  were  named  as  guilty  by 
the  incensed  cantons  to  be  arrested.  Wirth  and  his  sons  were 
advised  by  their  friends  to  fiee  till  the  storm  had  subsided. 
"  I  trust  in  God,  and  will  await  the  bailiffs,"  said  the  elder 
"Wirth.  "  Xe\'er  have  the  friends  of  God  been  overcome  by 
his  enemies,"  preached  Adrian  his  son.  When  the  armed  myr- 
midons of  the  law  came  to  take  them,  under-governor  AVirtli 
said :  "  My  lords  of  Zurich  might  have  spared  themselves  this 
trouble  and  cost ;  for  had  they  sent  a  child  to  me  I  had  gone 
with  it."  The  three  Wirths,  and  the  umler-governor  Ihietimann 
of  Nussbaunicn,  weie  lirought  to  Zurich,  where,  durin"  three 
weeks,  they  were  closely  interrogated,  without  anything  being 
discovered  in  their  conduct  worthy  of  punishment.  The  result 
of  the  trial,  liowever,  by  no  means  satisfied  the  other  places,  which 
sat  with  Zurich  in  the  Thurgau  court  of  justice.  They  required 
the  depcjrtation  of  the  prisoners  to  Baden,  tliat  the  investigation 
might  be  conducted  by  all  the  cantons  in  connnon.  Zurich 
would  not  consent  to  this,  for  the  reason  that  the  right  of  the 
lower  jurisdiction  belonged  to  this  state  alone,  while  the  pi  i.soners. 
according  to  the  result  of  the  examination,  had  committed  no 
crime  which  could  mtike  them  amenable  to  the  higlier  jurisdic- 
tion. "  Breaking  of  the  peace  and  sacrilege  are  crimes,"  said  the 
papists,  "  which  come  under  the  jurisdiction  of  tlieliiglier  courts." 
"If  you  will  not  deliver  up  the  ]msoners,  we  shall  fetch  them  bv 
force.     We  request  a  decisive  answer,  Yes  or  Nf>."'     In  Zui'ich, 


218  TRIAL  OF  HA^''S  WIETH  AND  HIS  SONS. 

the  opinions  as  to  what  ought  to  be  done,  were  divided ;  Zwingli 
held  that  the  legal  right  should  be  defended,  and  the  extradition 
refused;  others  were  of  the  mind  that  to  prevent  greater  evils, 
the  request  should  be  complied  with.  A  middle  course  was  at 
length  adopted.  It  was  resolved  to  deliver  up  the  prisoners  to 
Baden,  on  condition  that  they  should  be  tried  there  only  for  the 
incendiarism  at  Ittingen,  and  not  for  matters  of  faith  or  doctrine. 
The  condition,  which  was  accepted  by  the  delegates  of  the  twelve 
places,  was  afterwards,  contrary  to  plighted  faith,  shamefully 
violated. 

The  prisoners,  placed  in  the  centre  of  the  delegates  of  the 
Council  and  a  company  of  armed  men,  were  marched  off  to 
Baden,  August  152-i,  to  the  great  distress  of  many  of  the  in- 
habitants of  Zurich.  "  Alas !  alas,  what  a  miserable  setting  out 
that  was,"  cries  Bernhard  Weiss,  referring  to  their  departure. 
Zwingli  preached, — God  will  call  us  to  account  for  this ;  and 
exhorted  the  people  earnestly  to  pray  to  God  that  He  would  have 
mercy  on  the  poor  prisoners,  comfort  them,  and  strengthen  them 
in  the  true  faith.  On  their  being  conducted  at  Baden  through 
the  press  of  the  gaping  multitude,  the  elder  Wirth  said  to  his 
sons  :  "  Behold,  dear  sons,  there  is  now  accomplished  in  us  what 
the  apostle  Paul  says,  1  Cor.  iv.  9,  '  We  are  set  forth,  as  it  were, 
appointed  to  death ;'  for  we  are  made  a  spectacle  unto  the  world, 
and  to  angels  and  to  men."  The  governor  Amberg,  the  author 
of  their  misfortunes,  was  among  the  spectators.  Wirth  stretched 
out  his  hand  towards  him,  and  prayed  him  not  to  be  so  furious, 
for  there  is  a  God  in  heaven  who  sees  all  things.  On  the  follow- 
ing day  they  were  subjected  to  a  searching  interrogation.  Their 
innocence  in  regard  to  the  plundering  and  Inirning  of  Ittingen,  was 
placed  in  the  clearest  light  hj  this  examination,  as  well  as  by  the 
depositions  of  witnesses,  especially  by  a  letter  from  the  prior  of 
the  monastery.  But  the  judges,  who  were  resolved  to  have  their 
victims  executed  as  criminals,  were  not  satisfied  with  this  result. 
They  were  now  examined  upon  the  abolition  of  the  mass  and 
images.  On  this,  the  deputy  from  Zurich  arose  and  said :  "  This 
is  contrary  to  the  agreement."  "  We  know  what  we  are  about," 
rejoined  the  deputy  from  Lucerne,  with  insolence,  "and  act  accord- 
ing to  orders."  "  In  that  case,  we  decline  to  sit  with  you,"  said 
the  Zurich  deputies,  "  and  shall,  without  delay,  make  report  of 


TRIAL  OF  HANS  WIKTH   AND  HIS  SONS.  210 

this  luatlL'i-  to  our  superiors."  The  victims  ol'  ii  bitter  hostility 
to  the  gospel  were  now,  with  coarse  insults,  put  to  the  rack,  in 
order  to  extract  from  them  the  confession  of  a  ca]iital  crime. 
Wirtli,  the  father,  was  cxjjosed  to  the  torture  from  morning  till 
noon;  his  son  John  from  twelve  till  two  o'clock.  W\\o  has 
taught  you  heretical  doctrine?  Zwingli  or  who  else?  the  latter 
was  asked.  On  his  crying  out  in  an  agony  of  pain,  "  0  merciful 
eternal  God,  help  and  comfort  me,"  one  of  his  judges  called  out 
to  him,  "Where  is  your  Christ  now?  Let  your  Christ  help  you 
now."  On  at  length  Adrian's  being  brought  in,  the  Bernese 
Sebastian  von  Stein  said  to  him :  "  Misterkin,*  tell  us  the  truth;  if 
you  don't,  I  swear  by  my  knighthood,  which  I  won  where  God 
himself  suffered,  that  we  shall  open  your  veins  one  after  the  other. 
You  have  waylaid  your  old  father  with  this  danniable  heretical 
doctrine,  and  are  about  to  be  the  death  of  him,  for  we  shall  do 
our  utmost  to  tear  iipthis  heresy  by  the  roots."  On  tliis,  Adrian 
begged  they  would  not  rage  and  storm  so,  but  have  mercy,  and 
hear  the  tnith  quietly.  "Misterkin,"  rejoined  von  Stein,  "The 
apostles  were  not  like  you,  but  desired  to  die  with  joy."  On  his 
being  elevated  by  the  rack-rope,  this  same  Bernese  mockingly 
said  to  him  again:  "  Misterkin,  this  is  the  nuptial  gift  we  present 
you  with  for  your  new  housewife." -f-  Buetimann's  trial  was  of 
shorter  duration,  and  he  was  this  time  spared  the  torture.  The 
dei>uties  then  rode  oil"  to  their  several  homes,  while  their  mis- 
handled victims  were  left  to  pine  in  jail  till  the  28th  of  Se])tem- 
ber.  On  this  day  they  were  brought  to  a  public  trial,  after  thev 
had  been  repeatedly  questioned  l)y  torture.  The  wife  of  the 
elder  Wirth,  Anna  Keller,  had  come  with  the  Council's  speaker, 
Escher,  frcjiu  Zurich,  to  move  the  judges  to  compassion  and 
mercy  lor  her  husband  and  sons.  On  their  Availing  ui)on 
Hieronymus  Stocker  of  Zug  for  this  purpose,  and  on  Escher's 
reminding  him  of  Wirth's  upright  and  honoural)le  character, 
Stocker  said:  "Ay,  it  is  even  as  you  say,  dear  Escher;  1  have 
been  twice  governor  in  Thurgau,  and  a  more  honest  faithful 
sen'ant  than  Wirth  I  have  never  met  with;  in  joy  or  in  soi-- 
row,  his  house    and  heart  were  open  to  all;  the  stranger  and 

*  Misterkin,"  a.<  much  as  my  little  priest;  for  in  Roman  Catholic  S^vitzerland 
the  priest  is  usually  called  Mister  (Iltrr.) 
t  Adrian  had  shortly  hcfore  married  a  nnn. 


220  TEIAL  OF  HANS  WIRTH  AND  HIS  SONS. 

the  fellow-countryman  both  found  in  hhn  the  man  of  honour. 
Therefore,  if  he  had  stolen  or  murdered,  I  would  have  helped  to 
spare  him;  but  he  has  burned  the  image  of  the  holy  Anna,  Christ's 
grandmother ;  therefore  he  must  die  without  mercy."  "  God 
forbid,"  rejoined  Escher,  "  that  a  pious  man,  who  has  burned 
nothing  but  wooden  images,  should  find  less  grace  than  a  thief  or 
a  murderer.  This  will  have  a  bad  ending."  The  governor  Wirth, 
his  son  John,  and  Burkhard  Euetimann,  were  condemned  to 
death;  Adrian  was  spared  to  the  entreaties  of  his  mother.  On 
the  sentences  being  made  known  to  the  prisoners  in  the  tower, 
the  elder  Wirth  said  to  his  son  Adrian,  who  had  been  pardoned : 
"  My  son,  since  God  spares  you  in  life,  see  to  it  that  neither  your- 
seK  nor  any  friend  of  ours  take  it  in  hand  to  revenge  our  innocent 
deaths.  God  in  heaven  saitli,  'Vengeance  is  mine.'  He  in  His 
own  time  avenges  all  innocent  blood  shed.  He  will  grant  us  His 
grace,  and  strengthen  us  in  true  faith  till  death."  As  Adrian  in 
deep  distress  wept  bitterly,  his  brother  John  said  to  him  :  "  Dear 
brother,  you  know^  that  we  have  faithfully  preached  the  Word  of 
God;  but  where  the  Word  of  God  is  there  is  always  the  cross. 
Therefore  leave  off  weeping  and  be  comforted.  I  praise  God 
that  He  has  held  me  worthy  of  this  day  to  suffer  and  to  die  for 
His  Word.  His  name  be  praised  eternally.  His  wdll  be  done." 
In  conclusion,  they  besought  Adrian  to  comfort  those  near  and 
dear  to  them,  since  they  were  led  to  death  not  for  any  crime  but 
for  the  cause  of  God.  A  great  crowd  of  people  pressed  round 
them  as  they  were  conducted  from  the  prison  to  the  front  of  the 
Town-Hall,  where  the  confessions  made  by  them  at  the  trial,  and 
the  sentence  of  death,  were  read  over.  The  former  were  so 
disfigured,  and  in  part  falsified,  that  governor  Wirth  could  not 
resist  expressing  his  indignation  at  this  dishonest  proceeding. 
But  his  son  John,  his  companion  in  condemnation,  said  :  "  Not 
so,  dear  father,  let  it  pass.  The  Lord  in  heaven  knows  who  we 
are,  and  how  all  has  been  gone  about.  Anti-Christ  must  always 
trick  himself  out  with  lies  and  deception.  One  day  the  great 
judgment  will  be  held,  when  dark  and  secret  falsehood,  as  well 
as  the  bright  truth,  will  equally  stand  in  light.  It  is  ours  now 
to  overcome  with  faith  and  patience." 

They  were  then  handed  over  to  the  officers  of  justice,  and  led 
to  the  place  of  execution.     As  tliey  passed  by  the  chapel  of  8t. 


EXECUTION  OF  HANS  WIUTH  AND  HIS  SON.  2'2\ 

Josopli,  the  ccelcsia.stic  ^\•llo  accoinpiinii'd  ihciu,  cxliurtud  govcnior 
AVirtli  to  kneel  down  and  pray  to  the  saints.  His  son  John 
answered  the  priest:  ""Why  should  we  kneel  before  wood  and 
stoned  CJod  in  heaven  is  alone  to  be  ealled  on  and  worshi})ped. 
To  Him  do  you  also  turn."  And  turning  to  his  father,  he  con- 
tinued :  "  Dear  father,  remain  steadfast,  }ou  know  there  is  only 
one  Mediator  between  Ciod  and  man,  Christ  Jesus."  "  Certainly, 
my  son,"  returned  the  old  inan,  "  and  with  His  preserving  grace 
T  will  remain  true  to  Him  till  death."  On  their  a])]iroaching 
the  place  of  execution,  the  son  took  leave  of  the  father  in  the 
following  words :  "  Dearest  father,  from  this  time  forward  you 
are  no  longer  my  father  nor  I  your  son,  but  we  are  brothers  in 
Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord,  for  whose  name's  sake  we  are  now  about 
to  suffer  death.  And  if  God  will,  we  shall  this  day  come  to  Him, 
who  is  the  Father  of  us  all,  and  shall  possess  with  Him,  and  all 
tlie  saints,  everlasting  rest,  joy,  and  bliss.  Therefore,  dear 
brother  in  Christ,  be  of  good  cheer,  commit  yourself  to  the  Lord, 
and  let  Him  reign."  "  Amen,"  said  the  father,  "  the  Almighty 
bless  thee,  dear  son  and  brother  in  Christ.  To  Him  be  glory, 
praise,  and  thanks,  for  ever  and  ever."  The  three  victims  of  per- 
secution for  the  faith  knelt  down  one  after  the  other,  "  in  the 
name  of  Jesus,"  and  were  beheaded.  The  Christian  end  of  these 
men  made  a  deep  and  sad  impression  on  the  people,  who  saw, 
with  indignation,  on  their  naked  l)odies  the  marks  of  the  cmel 
treatment  they  had  experienced  on  their  trial.  Tlie  two  hoary- 
headed  martyrs  left  behind  them  sixty-seven  children  and  grand- 
children. Their  property  at  first  was  confiscated  to  the 
government,  but  at  the  intercession  of  Basle,  Schaffhausen  and 
Appenzell,  this  resolution  was  so  far  modified,  that  the  vndow  of 
the  governor  ^Virth  obtained  her  deceased  husband's  ]irop('rty, 
after  paying  eight  hundred  florins  costs,  and  twelve  gdld  crowns 
to  the  executioner.  Adrian  "NVirtli  received  the  a]ii)ointm('nt  at  a 
later  period  to  a  country  charge  in  the  canton  of  Zurich,  where  for 
forty  years  he  laboured  with  distinguished  success.  The  im- 
prisoned Oechslin,  after  being  dragged  from  prison  to  prison,  and 
shamefully  maltreated,  at  length  received  his  liberty,  and  was 
chosen  by  Zurich  to  a  country  charge. 

The  quarrel  between  Zurich  and  the  other  cantons,  oti  account 
of  the  affair  at  Ittinger,  lastcdifor  three  years,  during  which  time 


222  Zurich's  dangerous  state. 

Zwiiigli  set  forward  the  Eeformatioii-work  in  Zurich,  without 
letting  himself  be  interrupted  by  these  proceedings,  deep  as  the 
interest  was  which  he  took  in  them.  The  unintermittedly  con- 
tinued efforts  to  establish  and  disseminate  evangelical  doctrine, 
meanwhile,  incensed  its  adversaries  to  the  highest  pitch.  Often 
were  they  on  the  point,  during  the  affair  of  Ittingen,  of  levying 
war  on  Zvirich,  and  thus  at  one  stroke  suiDpressing  Zwingli  and 
his  doctrine.  The  danger  from  this  quarter  was  the  greater, 
because  in  Zurich  itself  there  were  people  to  be  found  in  all 
ranks,  but  more  especially  in  the  ranks  of  the  nobility,  who  were 
hostile  to  the  Eeformation,  and  devoted  to  the  interests  of  the 
papacy.  An  official  examination  entered  into,  gives  the  follow- 
ing examples  of  the  state  of  feeling : — The  butcher  Steinbruechel 
had  openly  avowed :  "  I  have  in  my  house  two  spears,  and  if 
the  Confederates  appear  before  the  town,  neither  one  nor  other 
shall  be  used  against  them ;  on  the  contrary,  I  shall  go  over  to 
them  and  join  them."  On  the  occasion  of  a  quarrel  between  the 
evangehcally  and  the  papally  disposed  members  of  a  family,  the 
grandfather,  who  adhered  to  the  old  doctrines,  said :  "  If  the  men 
of  Baden  come  hither,  I'll  give  a  hand  to  the  delivering  up  of 
Zwingli,  for  he  has  caused  mischief  enough.  Why  does  not  some 
one  hide  in  a  corner,  take  him  at  unawares,  and  knock  the 
fellow's  brains  out  with  an  axe."  These,  although  isolated  cases, 
show  what  sort  of  reception  the  threatenings  of  the  papal  can- 
tons found  in  various  quarters  in  Zurich.  But  the  murmurs 
of  the  nobility  were  deeper;  for  l)y  the  prohibition  of  foreign 
mercenary  military  service,  pay,  and  other  large  sums  of  money 
from  foreign  princes  went  out  of  their  hands ;  and  by  the  dissolu- 
tions and  revolutions  that  had  taken  place  in  the  foundations 
and  cloisters,  they  were  deprived  of  schools  and  nurseries  for 
their  children. 

3.  Fabee  employs  the  ill-humour  of  the  Swiss  Papal  party  at 

THE  defeat  of  PaVIA  TO  FORM  A  CLOSER  ALLIANCE  WITH  THE 

Emperor.     Baden's  PiELIgious  Disputation;  Thomas  Mur- 

NER;   THE  insults  OFFERED  TO  THE  ZURICHERS.      ThE  FORMAL 
ALLIANCE  OP  THE  PaPAL  CANTONS  WITH  AUSTRIA. 

The  warlike  ardour  of  the  enemies  of  the  Eeformation  was  cooled 


EFFECTS  OF  THE  DEFEAT  UF  I'AViA.  'I'l'-i 

ill  ail  iiiipurtaiit  ilegTce  by  the  I'ullowiiig  cvoiit,  and  Zurich,  iu  thu 
meantime,  was  secured  against  a  surj^rise.  In  the  battle  ol" 
Pavia,  the  Imperial  army  had  totally  defeated  the  Frtnich,  led  by 
the  king  in  person,  who  was  made  a  prisoner  in  the  battle.  A 
numerous  body  of  Swiss  from  the  papal  cantons  had  joined  the 
French  army.  The  corpses  of  from  fi\'e  to  six  thousand  Swiss 
covered  the  bloody  battle-field ;  five  thousand,  who  were  taken 
prisoners,  but  who  were  soon  afterwards  released,  returned  to 
their  homes  without  arms  and  in  rags,  while  many,  exhausted 
M'ith  disease  anil  hunger,  died  l)y  the  way.  Everywhere  the  cries 
of  widows  and  orphans  resounded,  lamenting  the  loss  of  husband 
<»r  father,  and  deep  were  the  curses  uttered  against  the  pensions 
from  the  fori'ign  princes  which  had  spread  such  desolation  over 
the  land.  Under  the  influence  of  these  calamitous  events  many 
called  to  mind  Zwiugli's  warning  words,  and  reflected  how  differ- 
ent it  would  have  been  had  his  advice  been  followed  ;  Zurich 
was  for  the  moment  more  envied  than  hated.  Zwingli,  with  all 
the  earnestness,  and  in  the  spirit  of  one  of  the  old  prophets,  spoke 
on  the  Simday  after  St.  Fridolin,  of  the  olden  times  of  the  Con- 
federacy, when,  with  poverty  and  simplicity  of  manners,  piety, 
brotherly  love,  and  courage,  flourished.  "  Now,"  said  he,  "  by  the 
destnictive  influences  of  foreign  mercenaiy  campaigns,  the  country 
is  brought  to  the  verge  of  iiiin,  and  calamity  gathers  on  calamity." 
He  seriously  exhorted  the  nation  to  earnest  prayer  that  God 
would  gi'ant  them  a  right  understanding  to  know  the  truth,  and 
to  do  what  was  well-pleasing  in  His  sight. 

The  benefits  to  the  Eeformation  from  this  turn  in  the  public 
mind  of  Switzerland,  which  extended  itself  even  to  Lucerne  and 
the  mountain-cantons,  Faber  and  his  party,  however,  knew  to 
disappoint,  and  they  succeeded  in  diverting  the  course  of  events 
to  the  advantage  of  their  own  cause.  In  his  struggle  after  eccle- 
siastical honours  this  zealous  defender  of  the  papacy  had  suc- 
ceeded in  arriving  at  the  dignity  of  a  spiritual  counsellor  of  the 
Archduke  Ferdinand  of  Austria,  brother  of  Charles  the  Fifth. 
In  this  position  he  laboured  to  bring  the  enemies  of  the  Ilefor- 
mation  in  Switzerland  into  closer  alliance  with  the  Austro-Span- 
ish  Imperial  house,  which  formed  the  central  point  of  influ- 
ence for  the  party  for  the  whole  of  Europe.  In  these  labours  lie 
was  greatly  assisted  by  the  ill-feeling  created  against  France  by 


224-  EFFECTS  OF  THE  DEFEAT  OF  PA VI A. 

the  unhappy  battle  of  Pavia.  From  tliis  time  forward  tlie  threads 
to  all  important  undertakings  against  the  Eeformation  in  Swit- 
zerland as  well  as  in  other  countries  of  Europe  were  attached  and 
set  in  motion  by  the  Austro-Spanish  Imperial  house,  which  the 
Pope  well  knew  to  draw  ever  closer  to  himself.  In  all  these  oper- 
ations, Faber,  as  long  as  he  lived,  played  a  very  important  part. 
The  great  influence  he  wielded  appears  from  the  following  under- 
taking, which  he  meditated  and  set  in  motion  against  Zwingli 
and  the  Eeformation.  The  victories  wdiich  the  Eeformer  gained 
by  the  Eeligious  Disputation,  and  the  repeated  challenge  of  the 
Zurichers,  "  prove  it  to  us  by  the  Word  of  God,  then  we  shall 
follow  you,  and  abstain  from  the  Eeformation,"  made  a  very  pain- 
ful impression  upon  the  bishops,  prelates,  and  the  whole  papal 
clergy.  They  deliberated,  therefore,  as  BuUinger  mentions,  day 
and  night,  how  they  might  dam  up,  or  yet  better,  hoM^  they  might 
dry  up,  at  its  source,  the  stream  that  threatened  to  lay  level  with 
the  gi'ound  the  stately  building  of  their  power  and  magnificence. 
The  more  sagacious  were  well  aware  that  the  Eeformation  could 
not  be  suppressed  by  measures  of  violence  or  persecution,  and 
that  it  must  be  conquered  by  those  very  weapons  through  which 
it  had  risen  to  its  present  power  and  ascendancy.  Besides,  their 
people  generally  expressed  great  dissatisfaction  that  the  clergy 
were  not  better  able  to  defend  the  old  doctrines..  A  Eeligious 
Disputation,  in  which  the  poj)ish  party  might  be  made  secure  of 
victory,  through  the  arrangements  adopted,  and  the  selection  of 
the  judges  to  decide  upon  the  result,  appeared  to  be  the  best 
means  of  saving  the  "  old  Church."  Such  a  discussion  which, 
according  to  their  views,  could  only  be  held  in  some  papistically 
inclined  place,  was,  at  the  same  time,  to  be  made  a  snare  for 
entrapping  Zwingli  into  the  power  of  his  enemies.  They  were 
then  to  lose  no  time  in  at  once  condemning  and  burning  him  as 
a  heretic. 

In  such  a  plan  the  Eomanists  conceived  they  had  found,  after 
long  search,  the  means  of  fettering  by  human  institutions  the 
free  preaching  of  the  gospel,  and  of  putting  the  hated  Eeformer 
out  of  the  way  by  the  semblance  of  judicial  procedure.  To  this 
work  of  darkness,  Dr.  John  Eck,  vice-chancellor  of  the  High 
School  of  Ingolstadt,  then  the  most  celebrated  champion  of  the 
papacy,  at  the  instigation  of  Faber,  the  friend  of  his  own  and  of 


baden's  religious  disputation.  225 

ZwingH's  studies,  was  to  lend  the  arms  of  his  extraordinary 
learning  and  great  volubility  of  speech.  Already  he  had,  not 
without  glory,  disputed  with  Luther  and  Carlstadt  at  Leipzig, 
1519,  from  27th  June  till  13th  July,  and  had,  for  his  bearing  on 
this  occasion,  been  richly  rewarded  and  honoured  by  the  Pope,  so 
that  thisopportunity  of  gaining  fresh  glory  and  money  was  by  no 
means  disagreeable  to  him;  "for,"  as  Bullinger  says,  "he  loved, 
liked  Balaam,  the  wages  of  unrighteousness."  The  higher  clergy 
in  Suabia  and  in  Switzerland,  as  also  the  Suabian  league,  and 
the  Archduke  Ferdinand  of  Austria,  raised,  by  taxation,  vast 
sums  of  money.  With  these  Eck  was  to  be  handsomely  paid. 
At  the  same  time,  the  leaders  of  the  Romanists  in  Switzerland, 
well  accustomed  to  being  bribed,*  (Bullinger)  were  won  over  to 
the  undertaking.  In  order  to  remove  any  scruples  which  might 
be  raised  in  any  quarter  by  the  Swiss  papal  party  against  the 
Disputation,  the  Bishop  of  Constance  as  well  as  the  Archduke 
Ferdinand  and  the  Suabian  league  wrote  special  letters  to  the 
Diet,  strongly  advising  its  appointment.  Such  preparations 
having  been  made.  Dr.  Eck  despatched  an  address  in  writing  to 
the  assembled  Confederate  deputies  in  Baden.  In  this  document, 
after  praising  them  for  their  faithful  perseverance  in  the  old  faith, 
he  exhorts  them,  as  honourable,  laudable,  consistent  Christians, 
not  to  let  themselves  be  turned  aside  from  their  good  and  Chris- 
tian undertaking,  nor  to  be  shaken  by  Zwingli's  ensnaring  and 
blasphemous  writings.  "  For  this  Zwingli,"  continues  Eck, 
"  teaches  in  his  works  manifold  errors,  tarnishes  the  faith,  WTCsts 
to  a  violent  and  heretical  sense  Holy  Scripture,  the  Word  of  God, 
and  substitutes  for  the  true  a  false  signification.  Such  I  offer, 
when  and  where  it  may  suit  you,  with  the  help  of  the  Almighty, 
and  with  the  grace  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  to  prove  against  the  said 
Zwingli  in  a  Disputation.  For  I  am  full  of  confidence  that  I 
shall,  with  little  trouble,  maintain  against  Zwingli  our  old  true 
Christian  faith  and  customs  to  be  accordant  with  Holy  Scri])ture 
and  not  opposed  to  the  same,  and  to  prove  that  his  ensnaring 
doctrines,  lately  sent  abroad  into  the  world,  are  contraiy  to  it,  and 
have  no  foundation  therein." 

Zwingli  did  not  leave  this  challenge  of  Eck's  long  unan.swered. 

•  As  al)ove-mcntioneil,  the  rt'ripients  of  ]ien.<i()ns  and  i)rcscnts  from  foreipii 
princes  were  the  must  violent  enemies  of  the  Reformation. 

P 


226  BADEN'S  EELIGIOUS  DISPUTATION. 

"  Tell  me,"  he  writes  in  reply  to  him,  "  how  dare  you  maintain 
that,  out  of  love  and  reverence  towards  God,  you  had  written  to  the 
Confederates,  while,  both  by  life  and  doctrine,  you  manifest  very 
plainly  that  you  do  not  believe  on  God  at  all  ?  Did  you  believe 
in  the  God  whom  we  Christians  adore,  you  would  never  dare  to 
fight  against  His  Word.  But  what  do  we  see?  We  see  you,  for 
some  years  back,  contending  against  the  Word  of  God  in  so 
wicked  and  foolish  a  manner  that  all  Christians  must  hold  you 
to  be  an  enemy  of  God,  nay,  men  of  your  own  party  can  no  longer 
place  that  confidence  in  you  which  you  hoped  to  acquire.  If  gra- 
titude, fear,  and  love  towards  God  dwelt  within  your  bosom,  you 
would,  if  I  really  were  the  seducer  of  the  people  that  you  describe 
me  to  be,  first  of  all  have  exhorted  me  in  a  friendly  manner,  for 
so  God  always  speaks  to  sinners  first ;  and  had  you  been  a  ser- 
vant of  God,  and  given  yourself  up  to  the  guidance  of  the  Holy 
Spirit,  you  would  have  thus  acted  in  conformity  to  what  God  com- 
mands in  His  Word :  "  If  thy  brother  shall  trespass  against  thee, 
go  and  teU  him  his  fault  between  thee  and  him  alone,"  Matt,  xviii. 
15.  But  you  wiite  to  a  pious  Confederacy  a  letter  without  my 
knowledge  full  of  insolent  vituperation  of  me.  Wliat  need  have 
you  of  addressing  me  to  appoint  a  time  and  place  to  dispute?  If 
you  are  so  desirous  of  it,  come  when  you  will  to  Ziirich.  The 
gates  of  this  city  stand  open  to  you  at  all  times,  and  I  shaU  know 
how  to  answer  you,  depend  upon  it.  If  I  have,  by  my  preaching, 
led  my  people  astray,  it  is  reasonable  I  should  be  made  to  lead  them 
again  upon  the  right  track,  by  being  proved,  in  the  midst  of  them, 
to  be  a  false  teacher.  You  confidently  assert  that,  by  the  grace 
of  the  Holy  Spirit,  you  will  maintain  the  old  Christian  faith  in 
its  integrity  against  me.  Tell  me,  pray,  what  you  mean  by  the 
old  faith.  Have  you  any  older  than  the  faith  on  the  true  God, 
the  Creator  of  heaven  and  earth,  and  on  Jesus  Christ  and  the 
Holy  Ghost?  Or  are  you  able  to  communicate  older  instruc- 
tions upon  this  faith  than  those  to  be  drawn  from  the  Word  of 
God  itself,  which  God  has  spoken  by  Moses  and  the  prophets, 
and  at  length  by  His  only-begotten  Son  and  His  apostles?  The 
old  faith,  in  my  opinion,  is  that  which  is  in  accordance  with  what 
was  settled  from  the  beginning,  and  the  old  doctrine  is  that  which 
God  himself  has  revealed ;  but  these  are  somewhat  older  than  your 
fathers  and  customs  of  which  you  boast.     Set  off,  then,  gladly  on 


BADE^' S  RELIGIOUS  DISPUTATION.  227 

ci  journey  to  Zurich.  It  is  time  that  I  should  cease  to  teacli  ialsc 
doctrine  where  I  liave  done  so ;  hut  much  more  is  it  time  that 
you  cease  to  dehide  the  poor  people  by  your  wickedness  and 
deception,  and  to  circulate  calumnies  afi^ainst  the  pious  servants 
of  the  Lord  behind  their  backs."  The  Zurich  Council,  sent 
through  their  own  messengers  a  pressing  invitation,  with  a  safe- 
conduct,  to  Dr.  Eck  to  repair  to  Zurich,  as  the  accused  Zwingli 
ought,  in  justice,  to  have  his  guilt  established  in  the  presence  of 
his  own  magistracy.  Eck,  however,  declined  this  invitation, 
iinder  the  pretext  that  he  had  already  entered  into  arrangements 
with  the  Diet. 

The  deliberations  as  to  the  mode  in  M'hich  the  Dissputation 
shoidd  be  conducted,  and  the  place  wliere  it  should  be  held,  were 
continued  by  the  Confederate  deputii's  for  a  considerable  time; 
Faber  at  length  succeeded,  by  dint  of  persuasion  and  bribery,  in 
getting  this  point  arranged  to  his  satisfaction.  Zurich  was  not 
invited  to  any  of  the  deliberations.  They  selected  the  small 
town  of  Baden  in  the  Aargau  as  the  place  of  disputation,  and  its 
object  was  promulgated  to  be,  "  to  silence  Zwingli  and  such  like 
who  promidgate  delusive  and  ensnaring  doctrines,  to  turn  the  com- 
mon people  from  his  errors,  and  to  pacify  their  minds."  The  aim 
thus  was  not  to  investigate  truth,  but  to  put  Zwingli  to  silence. 
Tlie  letter  of  safe-conduct  betrayed  also  the  openly  pronounced 
object  of  the  discussion,  wldch  letter  was  put  into  the  hands  of 
the  Council,  ^\-itll  the  pressing  request  they  would  provide  in 
eveiy  case  that  Zwingli  should  come,  safe-conduct  being  secured 
to  him  and  his  friends,  provided  he  arrived  in  no  dangerous  way, 
and  demeaned  himself  in  a  manner  worthy  of  the  safe-conduct. 
The  Council,  however,  recognised,  after  obtaining  the  opinion  of 
a  Commission  named  for  the  pui-pose,  "  that,  according  to  Confe- 
derate law,  every  accused  pereou  ought  to  be  tried  at  the  place  of 
his  residence,  and  that,  therefore,  Zwingli  was  only  bound  to 
justify  liimself  in  Zurich,  where  he  preached."  While  the  Coun- 
cil, by  this  declaration,  firmly  refused  to  assist  at  the  discussion 
in  Baden,  Zwingli,  on  his  own  part,  replied  to  the  safe-conduct 
sent  to  him  by  the  Diet,  in  the  following  terms  :  "  I  thank  God, 
gracious  lords,  that  in  your  wisdom  you  have  resolved  u])on  a 
public  disputation,  and  shall  by  no  means  withdraw  myself  from 
the  same,  in  .«;o  far  as  Holy  Scripture,  exjilained  by  itself,  be 


228  baden's  religious  disputation. 

recognised  as  tlie  only  and  last  judge,  the  articles  to  be  discussed 
be  fixed  upon  beforehand,  the  Assembly  and  all  its  members  be 
sufficiently  secured  against  violence.  But  how,  dear  sirs,  can 
you  desire  that  I  should  journey  to  Baden,  which  is  under  the 
jurisdiction  of  my  determined  foes,  'the  five  places?'  Have  not 
they  publicly  allied  themselves  together  to  proscribe  my  doctrine  ? 
Do  they  not  decry  me  in  every  document  they  issue  as  a  heretic? 
Have  they  not,  even  in  the  general  invitation  to  the  Conference, 
repeated  the  charge,  although,  in  the  invitation  to  Zurich,  it  be 
omitted  ?  Do  I  not  know  that  they,  along  with  Freiburg,  have 
formed  the  resolution,  two  years  ago,  to  take  me  where  they  could 
find  me,  and  to  bring  me  to  Lucerne?  And  is  it  not  a  common 
saying  among  their  people,  that  one  is  not  bound  to  hold  a  safe- 
conduct  with  heretics?  In  Freiburg,  they  burned  my  writings,  in 
Lucerne  my  effigy;  I  might  well  know  who,  with  honest  inten- 
tions, would  advise  me  to  put  myself  in  their  hands.  This  I  have 
plainly  stated  to  the  Great  Council  of  Zurich,  placing  myself, 
however,  entirely  at  their  disposal  to  do  with  me  as  they  may 
deem  fit.  Once  more  I  offer  to  defend  my  doctrine  against  any 
opponent,  be  it  in  Zurich,  in  Berne,  or  St.  Gall,  without  doubt 
considerable  and  respectable  towns."  In  reference  to  the  safe- 
conduct,  he  called  their  attention  to  many  ensnaring  passages, 
especially  to  the  one  that  the  safe- conduct  was  only  to  be  kept  so 
long  as  he  conducted  himself  in  a  manner  worthy  of  it.  With 
such  a  condition,  no  free  discussion  could  take  place ;  for  should 
he,  for  example,  say,  "  the  Pope  is  anti-Christ,"  this  speech  would 
be  maintained  to  be  unworthy  of  the  safe -conduct,  and  it  wovdd 
be  broken.  That  Zwingli,  moreover,  rightly  penetrated  the 
designs  of  his  enemies  is  sufficiently  clear  from  the  following 
statements  and  occurrences.  Eck  and  Faber  had  openly  declared 
that  heresy  could  only  be  thoroughly  extirpated  by  the  use  of 
fire  and  sword.  Immediately  on  the  resolution  of  the  Diet  being 
published  that  the  Disputation  should  be  held  in  Baden,  Thomas 
Murner*  had  exclaimed  from  the  pulpit  in  Lucerne,  "  Zwingli,  I 

*  Thomas  Murner,  a  native  of  Strasburg,  a  not  unlearned  but  a  low-minded 
venomous  monk,  had,  after  many  devious  courses,  and  many  struggles  in  life,  at 
length  settled  down  at  Lucerne,  where  he  gained  the  favour  of  the  heads  of  the 
state  by  his  intemperate  invectives  against  Zwingli  and  the  Eeformation.  He 
was,  with  the  town-parson  Bodler,  a  man  of  a  like  stamp,  a  demagogue  of  the 
papal  party  in  this  town. 


BADEN'S  RELIGIOUS  DISPUTATION.  229 

warn  you  that  your  last  liour  is  come."     In  a  conversation,  the 
deputy  of  Lucerne  had  replied  to  one  who  observed  that  the 
safe-conduct  would  certainly  he  kept  with  Zwingli  if  he  came  to 
Baden,  "  if  we  had  him  once  here  he  should  have  prison-diet  for 
the  rest  of  his  days."    Captain  Ueberlingcr  of  Baden  was  willing 
"  to  he  called  his  life-long  hangman  if  they  woidd  hut  let  him  he 
the  judge  over  ZwinglL"     From  Berne,  Zwingli's  brother-in-law, 
Tremj),  wrote  to  him,  "  As  you  value  yoiu'  life,  abstain  from  going 
to  Baden,  for  1  laiow  from  a  sure  hand  that  no  safe-conduct  will 
be  held  with  you."     The  Eomanists,  however,  shewed  by  their 
actions,  still  more  plainly  than  by  these  threatening  and  warning 
expressions  which  escaped  some  of  the  members  of  their  party, 
the  design  they  had  in  view.     In  Lucerne,  Henry  Messberg  was 
put  to  death  by  a  slow  process  of  drowning  for  speaking  against 
the  nuns,  and  Jack  Nagxd  was  burned  alive  for  the  dissemination 
of  "Zwmglian  doctrines."   At  Schwyz,  Eberhard  Polt  of  Lachen, 
and  a  priest  from  the  same  quarter,  suffered  death  by  fire  for 
speaking  against  the  ceremonies.     In  Thurgau,  also,  there  was  an 
individual  burned  by  the  orders  of  "the  five  places"  for  impugn- 
ing the  mass.     Faber  displayed  a  like  spirit  of  persecution  in  his 
own  district.     Peter  Speugier  of  Freiburg,  (in  Breisgau,)  was,  at 
the  command  of  the  episcopal  bench  of  Constance,  of  whose  move- 
ments Faber  was  then  well  known  to  be  the  mainspring,  drowned 
as  a  heretic ;  and  only  a  few  days  before  the  commencement  of 
the  Disputation  in  Baden,  Faber  assembled,  in  the  open  market- 
place at  Mersburg,  a  consistory  under  his  presidency,  to  tiy  for 
heresy  John  Huegelin,  parson  of  Liudau.     He  confessed  that  he 
"  believed  the  Holy  Scriptures  and  the  articles  of  the  tnie  primi- 
tive creed ;  against  this  he  had  taught  nothing  ;  was,  therefore,  no 
heretic,  but  a  true  Christian."     He  was  deposed  from  the  priest- 
liood,  and  condemned  to  sutfer  deatli  l)V  fire,  wliich  ])unis]im('nt 
he  underwent  with  prayerful  resignation  and  Christian  fortitude. 
Such  proceedings  shewed  very  plainly  what  ends  Faber,  Eck, 
and  the    Romanists  had   in  view  by  the  Disputation  at  Baden ; 
Zwingli  especially  had  too  much  perspicacity  (»f  mind,  and  knew 
his  adversaries  too  well  to  be  ignorant  of  their  designs.     In  some 
preliminiirv  fencing  with  Faber  and  Eck  in  writing,  whidi  pre- 
ceeded   the   discus.sion.  and  in  which  lie  made  them   feel   very 
sensibly  bis  ininionse  .su]ioriority  to   tlK-m.    ho   clearly   shewed 


230  baden's  religious  disputation. 

that  he  penetrated  their  artifices :  "  I  and  not  the  Disputation 
am  the  object  in  view,  if  I  were  once  under  the  ice  the  Disputa- 
tion would  be  at  an  end."  "  You  and  your  knaves,"  cries  he  to 
Faber,  who  jeered  at  him  for  his  mistmst,  "and  all  to  whom 
money  is  dearer  than  truth,  right,  and  their  very  life,  I  trust  only 
as  far  as  I  prudently  can.  But  I  will  not  stake  my  life  on  what  a 
knave  might  stake  it.  Suppose  that  one  of  your  villains,  by  a 
shot  or  a  stab  deprived  me  of  life,  and  a  magistracy  apprehended 
him,  (which  might  be  difficult,  for  in  such  cases  flight  is  generally 
secured,)  of  what  use  would  it  be  to  twist  such  a  fellow  upon  the 
wheel  ?  Know  that  I  hold  myself  much  too  dear  to  venture 
myself  among  you,  not,  indeed,  for  my  own  sake,  but  for  the  sake 
of  my  dear  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  whose  Word  I  may  longer  help  to 
proclaim  and  defend  with  all  the  faithful,  and  stop  the  mouths 
of  you  papists.  You  are  a  well-spring  from  which  blood  pours 
forth,  for  you  have  followed  after  bloodshed  for  years.  I  shall 
give  an  account  of  my  doctrine  to  eveiy  man  to  whom  it  is  due, 
but  not  in  the  place  where  every  one  may  wish  to  have  it. 
Thereto  the  rights  of  your  god,  the  pope,  do  not  at  all  bind  me. 
Let  me  be  heard  before  my  own  community,  there  I  am  ready 
to  justify  myseK.  Christ  himself  says :  '  Ask  them  which  heard 
me  what  I  have  said.'  Ask  ye  also  the  church  congregation  who 
heard  me,  or  read  my  books,  and  if  you  find  anything  wrong  in 
them,  write  against  it ;  you  do  not  require  my  person  to  do  this. 
And  although  you  were  to  take  my  life,  yet  you  must  refute  my 
doctrine  with  the  pen,  for  unless  you  do  this,  you  cannot  tear  it 
from  the  hearts  of  those  in  whom  I  have  implanted  it.  You 
stigmatise  me  for  saying,  '  One  should  not  expose  himself  to 
a  useless  death.'  Do  you  not  know  that  Christ  teaches  the  same 
doctrine  in  the  words,  '  Wlien  they  persecute  you  in  this  city,  flee 
ye  into  another ;'  and  again,  '  Neither  cast  ye  your  pearls  before 
swine?'  You  feel  deeply  offended  at  this,  and  yet  I  have  em- 
ployed the  words  of  Christ  in  their  true  sense,  which  is,  that  we 
should  not  cast  our  costly  treasure  of  pearls,  which  the  truth  is, 
before  those  who  will  not  accept  it,  but  who  will  despise  and 
persecute  it.  These  Christ  calls  swine.  Of  such  swine  you  are 
certainly  one,  and  your  fellows  belong  to  the  same  breed,  who 
keep  crying  '  heretic,'  '  heretic,'  when  the  gospel  of  Christ  is 
proclaimed  in  their  hearing  by  any  of  Christ's  ambassadors." 


BADEN'S  RELIGIOUS  DISPUTATION.  231 

Firmly  as  Zwingli  resolved  to  avoid  the  snare  so  clumsily  laid 
for  him,  by  declining  to  a]i]iear  at  Baden,  the  Council,  with  equal 
firmness,  refused  to  allow  him  to  go.  Thus  the  Disputation  at 
Baden,  from  21st  May  till  8th  Jime  1520,  in  which  QEcolampad 
and  Haller  represented  the  Iteforming  party,  was  held  without 
Zwiugli's  presence.*  In  spirit,  however,  as  Myconius  assures  us, 
he  was  present,  and  by  his  labours,  continued  day  and  night,  and 
by  the  advice  which  he  transmitted  to  Baden,  he  did  the  cause 
more  real  service  than  had  he  been  present  in  body.  Measures 
were  taken  each  day  to  apprise  Zwingli  of  the  course  of  the 
Disputation,  and  of  Eck's  objections.  A  student  from  Wallis, 
who,  under  the  pretext  of  using  the  baths,  sojourned  at  Baden, 
attended  the  Disputation  regularly,  wiiting  down  the  proceed- 
ings from  memory  eveiy  evening.  Two  young  students,  by  turns, 
Thomas  Plater  of  Wallis,  and  Zimmermann  of  Winterthur, 
brought  these  notes  with  (Ecolampad's  letters  over  night  to 
Zwingli  at  Zurich,  carrying  upon  their  heads  baskets  with  hens 
to  avoid  observation.  In  the  morning,  they  returned  with  his 
answer.  On  Plater's  knocking  at  the  door  on  the  night  before 
Pentecost,  and  being  at  length  admitted,  he  found  the  Reformer 
already  in  bed.  "  He  soon,  however,  appeared,"  relates  Plater, 
when  he  heard  I  was  there,  rubbed  his  eyes,  and  said:  "Ay!  ay! 
you  are  a  restless  lad.  Here  am  I,  who  have  not  been  in  bed 
these  six  weeks,  thinking  that  as  to-morrow  is  Pentecost,  I  should 
get  a  snatch  of  rest."  He  set  himself  down,  wrote  his  opinion  upon 
the  question  in  dispute,  and  sent  his  answer  to  Baden  the  same 
night.  Upon  the  Disputation  being  ended,  Thomas  Murner,  the 
monk,  came  fonvard  Ijcfore  the  whole  assembly,  and  read  forty  abu- 
sive articles  against  Zwingli.  "  I  thought,"  said  he,  "  the  coward 
would  come,  but  he  has  not  shewn  face.  I  declare  forty  times,  by 
all  the  rights  which  order  things  human  and  divine,  that  the  tjTant 
of  Zurich  and  his  followers  are  knaves,  liars,  perjurers,  adulterers, 
infidels,  thieves,  sacrilegious,  food  for  gallows,  and  that  no 
honourable  man,   without   blushing,    can   keep   company  with 

*  CEcolan»iiinl  was  in  less  danger  of  his  life  \>y  Zwinj;!i's  a/isenre  than  he 
would  have  been  by  his  presence.  Zwingli's  fall  would  have  brought  about 
that  of  his  friends  likewise,  who  hapiiened  to  be  present,  while  their  death  in 
his  absence  would  have  served  no  purpose,  except  to  irritate  IJaslc  and  Berne, 
towns  which  it  was  hoped  would  yet  be  gained  to  the  papacy. 


232  THOMAS  MURNEE. 

them,"  This  concUision  of  the  Conference,  as  well  as  the  whole 
bearing  of  the  papal  disputants,  made  upon  many  of  those  present 
a  very  unfavourable  impression,  so  that  in  spite  of  the  shouts  of 
the  Eomanists,  the  consequences  of  the  Disputation  were  by  no 
means  advantageous  to  the  papacy.  Berne  and  Basle,  indeed, 
shortly  afterwards  broke  loose  from  the  party;  and  through  the 
instrumentality  of  zealous  evangelical  preaching,  were  entirely 
won  over  to  the  Eeformation.  At  the  same  time,  the  papists 
made  the  unpleasant  experience,  that  in  two  countries  at  once,  to 
wit,  in  Switzerland  through  the  Baden  Disputation,  and  in  Ger- 
many through  the  first  Diet,  begun  at  Speyer,  1526,  which  the 
Archduke  Ferdinand,  at  the  orders  of  his  brother  Charles  V.,* 
summoned,  for  the  purpose  of  suppressing  the  Eeformation,  their 
savage  demeanour  and  persecuting  measures,  instead  of  throwing 
fear  and  alarm  into  the  ranks  of  the  evangelical  party,  as  they 
had  hoped,  only  brought  fresh  accessions  of  numbers  to  this 
party.  Indeed,  a  very  short  time  afterwards,  the  Austro- 
Spanish  Imperial  house  itseK  appeared  willing  to  assume  a 
more  favourable  attitude  to  the  Evangelicals  of  Germany,  the 
Emperor  Charles  V.  breaking  with  Pope  Clement  VI.,  and  send- 
ing his  soldiers,  who  were  mostly  Protestant  mercenaries,  to  take 
and  plunder  Eome,  which  they  did.  These  events,  however, 
exercised  but  an  insignificant  influence  on  Switzerland.  In 
Eome,  the  Swiss  mercenaries  from  the  mountain  cantons  fought 
with  a  heroic  courage  against  the  Imperial  host,  defending  the 
Pope  against  the  Emperor,  at  the  very  time  that  their  fathers  and 
brothers  at  home  drew  closer  to  the  Archduke  Ferdinand  in  the 
defence  of  the  old  faith,  and  the  suppression  of  the  Eeformation. 
Soon  after  the  Disputation  had  taken  place,  the  period  arrived 
at  which  the  cantons  had  to  renew  the  oath  of  Confederacy 
between  each  other.  The  papal  cantons  declared  they  would 
neither  give  nor  take  the  oath  from  Zurich ;  "  Basle,  St.  Gall,  and 
Muellmusen,  must  be  treated  in  the  same  manner,"  said  they.  This 
conduct  embittered  the  Eeforming  party,  the  more  so  as  the  signs 
grew  plainer  of  an  approximation  of  counsels  on  the  part  of  the 

*  In  a  letter  of  the  23d  March  1526,  from  Seville  (Spain),  Charles  V.  instnieted 
his  brother  the  Archduke  to  the  following  effect :  The  Diet  is  to  maintain  the 
old  customs  of  the  Church,  and  execute  the  edicts  of  Worms,  (which  commanded 
the  suppression  of  the  Lutheran  doctrine  and  writings.) 


THOMAS  MURNER  233 

papal  cantons  to  those  of  the  Archduke  Ferdinand.  This  prince 
M^a.s  indeed  preparing  Avar  against  Zurich,  witli  the  full  under- 
standing of  the  mountain  cantons.  At  the  same  time  the  intem- 
perate and  shameless  behaviour  of  Thomas  Murner  was  in  the 
hiijhest  deji^ree  revolting  ;  the  coarse  liheLs  which  this  ribald  monk 
uttered  against  the  adherents  of  the  Reformation  proved  an  inces- 
sant cause  of  irritation.  His  "Black  Calendar"  especially  contams 
the  worst  specimens  of  this  description  of  writing  which  the 
imagination  can  picture  to  itself  By  the  side  of  a  portraiture  of 
Zwingli,  suspended  from  the  gallows,  there  is  the  superscription  : 
"  Calendar  of  the  Lutheran-Evangelical  Church-Bobbers  and 
Heretics."  At  the  introduction  of  the  principal  supporters  of  the 
Keformation,  hardly  any  term  in  the  vocabulary  of  low  abuse  is 
spared;  the  whole  concludes  with  the  declaration,  that  all  its 
followers  are  "  Impotent  unprincipled  villains,  thieves,  lick- 
spittles, dastards,  and  knaves,  and  that  the  heretics  ought  to  be 
burned,  and  sent  in  smoke  to  the  devil."  Such  insults  were  not 
only  passed  over  with  impunity  by  the  civil  power  of  the  papal 
cantons,  but  were  joyfully  hailed  by  them,  and  disseminated  far 
and  wide,  so  that  the  indignant  Zurichers  had  just  cause  to  com- 
plain: "the  foreign  monk.  Dr.  Murner,  vituperates  us  from  his 
venomous  malicious  heart  with  such  insolence,  as  to  fill  many 
a  worthy  man  with  indignation.  You,  however,  dear  Confederates, 
do  not  command  him  silence."  Zurich  had  to  bear  other  affronts 
fi-oni  the  Romanists.  On  the  Council  of  this  state  striking  a  new 
silver  coin,  Uri  prohiljited  it,  as  if  it  were  derived  from  sacrilege ; 
and  in  Zug,  cups  were  stamped  upon  it  to  designate  it  such. 

This  ever  increasing  hostility,  thus  openly  expressed  against 
Zurich,  inspiri'd  the  enemies  of  Zwingli  and  of  the  Reformation  in 
Zurich  itself  with  fresh  hopes  and  courage.*   They  began  to  move. 

*  Zwinpli  writes  on  this  sul>jcct,  in  letters  to  liis  friends  in  Hasle  nn<l  Stras- 
hnrp:  "  P\)r  some  time  back  there  lias  been  apain  observed,  whenever  the  tause 
of  the  pospel  met  with  any  diffienlty,  a  preat  stir,  and  noisy  and  ronpratnlatorj- 
meetinps  of  our  swamiinp  Catalines.  It  was  clear  as  day  that  tliese  jieople 
would  venture  as  much  as  the  Catalinc  consi)irators  <liil  in  Home.  I  confess 
that,  as  their  words  and  actions  betrayed  more  and  more  jdaiidy  their  hitherto 
concealed  plots,  I.  for  my  part,  bepan  to  warn  loudly  apainst  treachery.  I  suc- 
ceeded, tlespite  the  defiance  and  hypocrisy  with  which  they  met  me.  in  intimidatinp 
their  chief  power,  and  undermininp  their  walls.  They  thoupiit  to  ]m\  c  remained 
unobserved.     I  psne  them  to  understand  this  was  not  the  case,  an<l  that  I  myself 


234)  THE  EEFORMATION  EXTENDS  ITSELF. 

For  some  time  gloomy  rei)orts  had  been  spread  abroad  in  the  town 
that  men  in  high  positions,  who  were  in  the  receipt  of  secret  pen- 
sions from  foreign  princes,  were  stirring  up  the  people  against  the 
regulations  and  decrees  of  the  government.  The  suspected  indi- 
viduals were  apprehended,  and  subjected  to  an  instantaneous  and 
searching  examination  within  closed  doors.  James  Grebel,  (the 
father  of  an  old  but  dubious  friend  of  Zwingli's  and  the  Eefor- 
mation,  whose  acquaintance  we  shall  afterwards  make  as  one  of 
the  heads  of  the  Anabaptists,)  was  convicted.  He  confessed  to 
having  received  pensions  and  bribes  from  several  princes  at 
once.  Neither  his  gn-ey  hairs  nor  the  high  esteem  which  he 
had  hitherto  enjoyed  in  Zurich  and  in  the  Confederacy,  could 
avert  from  him  the  highest  penalty  of  the  law.  Others,  found 
guilty  in  a  less  degree,  were  banished  from  the  country  for 
a  longer  or  shorter  period.  These  exiles,  along  with  several 
monks  who,  conscious  of  guilt,  had  secretly  withdrawn  from  the 
town,  contributed  not  a  little  to  stir  the  embers  of  hatred  and 
animosity  among  their  co-religionists  in  the  other  cantons. 

In  spite  of  all  these  hindrances,  the  Eeformation,  animated  by 
the  breath  of  the  Spirit  of  God,  extended  itself  on  every  side. 
Berne,  and  Schaffhausen  had  declared  decidedly  for  it ;  in  Grau- 
bund,  Glaurus,  and  Appenzell,  the  Eeformers  constituted  the 
majority,  and  while  St.  Gall,  at  an  earlier  period,  had  received 
the  gospel,  there  appeared  growing  signs  of  an  evangelical  move- 
ment in  Thurgau,  Eheinthal,  Sarganserland,  and  in  the  free 
domains  of  Eeussthal ;  nay,  they  appeared  in  the  valleys  of  Italy 
itself  The  mountaineers  in  the  Waldstaedte  alone  withstood  the 
breath  of  the  new  spirit,  even  as  the  glaciers  of  their  alps  resist 
the  genial  influences  of  spring. 

Under  these  circumstances,  they  began  to  turn  their  eyes  with 

might  perhaps  make  a  disclosure.  And  so  it  was.  I  was,  without  their  know- 
ledge, in  possession  of  certain  letters,  and  had  besides  learned  something  here, 
and  something  there.  The  investigation  begins.  Much  comes  to  light,  partly 
insigniticant,  and  partly  important.  Well  Grebel,  father  of  Conrad,  is  beheaded. 
He  who  held  the  highest  character  amongst  us  had  received  from  the  Emperor, 
the  King  of  France,  and  the  Pope,  more  than  one  thousand  gold  florins,  under 
the  pretext  of  rewards  to  his  son.  Several  of  the  clique  fled,  the  gates  being 
negligently  watched,  one  in  a  cart,  hid  under  manure.  The  examination  is  still 
going  on.  I  warn  the  one  party  to  take  an  example  by  such  an  issue  of  the  pro- 
ceedings, I  exhort  the  other  to  tear  up  this  evil  by  the  roots." 


ALLIANCE  OF  THE  PAPAL  CANTONS  WITH  AUSTRIA.  235 

increased  hope  towards  the  Austro-Spanisli  house,  and  trusted 
that  it  woidd  lend  thcnn  aid  to  su})pross  tlie  hated  innovation 
and  its  supporters.  The  Arclidnke  Ferdinand,  after  his  election 
in  the  autumn  of  1527  to  be  King  of  Hungary,  had  emitted  a 
decree  from  Ofeu,  in  Hungary,  at  Faber's  suggestion,  in  which 
he  forbids  his  subjects,  on  the  penalty  of  death,  to  take  up 
Zwingli's  doctrine,  or  even  to  harbour  one  of  the  followers  of  it ; 
and  his  brother,  Charles  V.,  wrote,  on  the  3d  February  1528, 
from  Burgos,  (Spain,)  to  the  papal  cantons,  praising  them  for 
their  steady  continuance  in  the  ancient  laith,  and  exhorting  them 
to  continue  in  the  same  course.  Both  on  the  eastern  and  northern 
frontiers  Switzerland  bordered  on  the  dominions  of  Austria,  and 
here,  by  letters  and  messages,  an  uninterrupted  intercourse  was 
earned  on  between  the  Austrian  otHcials  and  the  Swiss  llomanists, 
which  the  papal  clergy,  high  and  low,  zealously  fostered  In 
Februaiy  1529,  at  length,  a  formal  alliance  was  drawn  out  at 
Feldkirch,  between  deputies  of  the  live  papal  cantons  and  Aus- 
trian delegates  appointed  for  the  purpose,  which,  two  months 
later,  was  documented  and  sealed  at  Waldshut.  "  We,  King 
Ferdinand,  and  'The  Five  Places,'"  so  runs  the  treaty  in  part, 
'•  witli  the  lands,  dominions,  and  temtories  of  both  parties  to  this 
league,  remain  steadfast  to  the  ancient  true  Christian  faith  and 
Christian  sacraments ;  and  if  it  so  be  that  any  one  within  our 
temtories  and  dominions  shall  dare  to  attack  the  ancient  true 
Christian  faith  and  venerated  sacraments,  or  secretly  or  openly 
to  preach  against  the  same,  and  endeavour  to  turn  the  people 
therefrom,  such  an  one  shall  be  punished  in  property  and  person. 
Austria  sends,  in  case  of  need,  six  thousand  foot  and  four  hun- 
dred horse,  with  the  requisite  artilleiy,  into  Switzerland.  To 
this  end  the  Eeformed  cantons  may  be  blockaded,  and  provisions 
prevented  from  entering  them,  or  seized."  Plans  of  a  campaign 
were  drawn  out,  according  to  which  the  Reformed  cantons  were 
to  be  invaded  from  ditterent  points  at  the  same  moment.  Every- 
thing gave  intimation  that  a  resolution  had  been  come  to  to  sup- 
press and  extirpate  evangelical  doctrme  by  force  of  arms.  In 
Gennany  preparations  were  made  for  the  second  1  )iet  at  S})ires, 
with  the  view  of  the  suppression  of  the  Peformation,  wliile  in 
Barcelona,  (Spain,)  the  emperor  concluded  peace  with  the  pope, 


236  ALLIANCE  OF  THE  PAPAL  CANTONS  WITH  AUSTRIA. 

on  the  5tli  August  1529,  solemnly  promising  the  papal  ambassa- 
dor to  root  out  heresy  with  the  sword. 

Zwingli  penetrated  more  clearly  than  almost  any  of  his  con- 
temporaries the  designs  and  intrigues  of  the  combined  enemies, 
papal  and  Imperial.  The  infatuated  blindness,  indeed,  of  many 
of  his  countrymen  gave  him  the  deepest  affliction,  as  appears 
from  a  letter  to  his  friend  Werner  Steiner :  "  I  speak  the  truth," 
he  says,  "  in  Christ,  and  lie  not,  that  no  pain  so  sharply  affects 
me  as  the  incredulity  of  some  Swiss.  This  lies  heavily  on  my 
heart,  and  torments  me  night  and  day ;  truly  not  as  though  I 
feared  for  myself,  but  for  them."  But,  full  of  faith,  he  doubted 
not  for  a  moment  of  the  ultimate  victory  of  the  right  cause.  "  It 
ought  not  to  terrify  us,"  he  wrote,  "  that  Faber  and  his  crew  not 
only  work  without  intermission  against  the  truth,  but  that  they 
use  every  means  in  their  power  to  accomplish  the  ruin  of  the 
preachers  and  teachers  of  it.  We  ought  rather  to  rejoice  at  it, 
for  this  manifold  opposition  is  a  plain  sign  that  we  are  near  the 
promised  land.  The  Papists  pipe  from  their  last  hole,  there- 
fore they  are  so  furious." 

But  the  quarrels  which  arose  between  the  advocates  and  friends 
of  the  Keforniation  themselves  were  far  more  keenly  felt,  and 
more  deeply  injurious  than  the  reaction  of  the  Papists.  To  these 
let  us  now  direct  our  attention. 


SEVENTH   SECTION, 


OBSTACLES  TO  THE  PROGRESS  OF  THE  REFORMATION,  ARISING 
FROM  DIFFERENCES  OF  OPINION  UPON  THE  SACRAMENTS  OF 
BAPTISM  AND  THE  LORD'S  SUPPER. 


"  For  there  shall  arise  false  Christs,  and  false  projihets,  and  shall  shew  great 
signs  and  wonders;  insomuch  that,  if  it  were  possible,  they  shall  deceive  the 
very  elect.  Behold,  I  have  told  you  before.  Wherefore,  if  they  shall  say  unto 
you,  Behold,  he  is  in  the  desert;  go  not  forth:  behold,  he  is  in  the  secret  cham- 
bers; believe  it  not." — Matt.  xxiv.  24-26. 


1.  Introduction. — Zwingli's  Standing-Point. 

"We  have  seen  how  Zwiugli,  equipped  in  the  armour  of  God, 
victoriously  wielded  the  sword  of  the  Spirit,  which  is  the  Word 
of  God,  against  the  Papacy,  storming  with  this  potent  weapon 
many  of  the  strongholds  of  this  anti-Christian  power.  In  vain 
tlie  burning  missiles  of  lying  calumny  and  intrigue  were  dis- 
charged against  tlie  champion  of  God.  Unhurt,  he  stood  girded 
with  truth,  defended  by  the  armour  of  righteousness  on  the  right 
hand  and  on  the  left,  the  shield  of  faith  before  him,  and  the 
helmet  of  salvation  on  his  head,  ever  ready  to  proclaim  the 
gospel  P>ut  just  as  the  papal  enemy,  smote  by  the  two-edged 
sword  of  the  Spirit,  began  to  give  way,  another  arose  in  a 
different  quarter,  which  pretended  to  fight  under  the  same  banner 
with  the  friends  of  truth,  which  employed  the  same  watch-word, 
but  which  raised  the  shout  of  battle  in  their  rear  and  flank,  thus 
not  only  procuring,  by  their  furious  and  ill-timed  fanaticism,  a 
breathing  space  for  the  Papists  to  rally  their  broken  forces,  but 
throwing  such  confusion  into  the  ranks  of  the  Ev'angelicals.  that 
many,  in  the  tumult  thus  occasioned,  mistook  the  friend  for  the 
foe,  and  directed  the  whole  weight  of  battle  against  the  fnend, 
instead  of  assailing  the  enemy.  But  while  the  bravest  com- 
batant may  be  deceived  by  a  stratagem,  which  produces  such  a 
dislocation  of  forces,   it   is    just  in  such    a    moment    of  peril 


238  HIS  STANDING-POINT. 

that  the  prudent  general  manifests  his  superiority,  by  pene- 
trating with  ail  eagle  glance  the  designs  of  the  enemy,  and 
taking  measures  accordingly  with  a  wise  deliberation  to  frus- 
trate them;  with  a  isuddenly  made  evolution,  he  falls  upon  the 
enemy  behind  him,  while  he  holds  in  check  the  beaten  foe 
in  front.  Such  a  generalship  did  ZwingK  shew  in  this  crisis; 
but  it  was  a  spiritual  generalship,  proving  all  in  the  light  of 
God's  Word,  and  of  a  faith  which,  resting  upon  God  and  over- 
coming the  world,  knew  correctly  to  balance,  with  a  sharp  dis- 
crimination, the  opposing  claims  of  truth  and  falsehood,  as  they 
hung  in  the  balance  of  controversy  and  of  fight.  Painfully  as 
he  was  affected  by  the  disunion  in  the  ranks  of  truth,  he  allowed 
himseK  neither  to  be  led  astray  by  illusion,  however  tricked 
out  it  might  be  in  the  garb  of  piety,  nor  to  be  hurried  away 
to  any  excess  or  violence  by  the  angry  attacks  of  his  emng 
brethren.  "We  glorify  God  in  the  highest,"  he  wrote  to  his 
friends  in  Berne,  "  as  well  for  every  accession  as  for  every  defec- 
tion ;  not  only  when  He  strengthens  our  hopes  but  when  He  tries 
our  patience.  It  is  then  we  truly  experience  what  fighting  is, 
when  the  enemy  not  only  attacks  us  in  the  front,  but  on  the  flank 
and  rear ;  nay,  when  the  very  members  of  our  household  join 
him."  The  position  which  Zwingli  took  up,  and  the  opinions  he 
maintained  in  these  conflicts,  have  been  from  first  to  last  grievously 
misrepresented,  and,  indeed,  grossly  misapprehended.  How? 
Because  the  standing-point  he  assumed,  and  from  which  he  acted, 
has  not  itself  been  apprehended  and  steadily  kept  in  view.  In 
order  to  answer  the  misrepresentations,  and  to  prevent  all  miscon- 
ceptions of  Zwingli's  opinions,  with  regard  to  the  nature  and 
significance  of  the  sacraments,  we  intend,  shortly,  to  ilhiminate 
from  the  right  quarter  the  standing -point  he  took  up  in  these 
disputes. 

The  authority  of  the  Word  of  God  being  recognised  by  all  who 
took  part  in  these  controversies,  for  each  party  sought  to  make  good 
its  views  by  quotations  from  Scripture,*  the  question  in  the  end 
came  to  be.  Who  has  adopted  the  right  method  of  discovering  the 

*  Even  the  Anabaptists,  while  they  often,  by  their  pretended  direct  revela- 
tions, placed  themselves  higher  than  the  written  Word,  recognised  its  authority, 
in  so  far  that  they  represented  their  doctrines  and  observances  as  founded  and 
enjoined  in  Scripture,  although  they  often  took  up  its  utterances  in  a  spirit  too 
literal,  and  often  understood  them  quite  falsely. 


HIS  STANDING-POINT.  239 

true  sense  of  Sevipture  ?  Let  us  leani  IVoui  Zwiiigli's  own  words 
his  opinious  upon  this  point :  "  The  Word  of  God,"  he  says,  "  is 
full  of  significance,  and  rich  in  reference  and  allusion,  and 
although  it  has  hiit  one,  and  this  the  simplest  and  the  truest 
sense,  yet  it  happens  that,  owing  to  the  obtuseness  and  limited 
range  of  the  human  faculties,  the  genuine  and  proper  sense  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  who  it  is  that  speaks  in  Scripture,  is  comprehended 
but  rarely  and  with  ditticulty,  except  by  those  whom  the  Spirit 
lias  conducted  into  His  innermost  sanctuary.  It  is  thus  that  so 
many  various  explanations  and  senses  are  produced  by  the  inter- 
preters of  Scripture,  each  striving  to  explain  it  to  the  profit  of  the 
Chiu'ch,  according  to  the  gift  given  him  of  God.,  Nor  are  they 
to  be  so  severely  reprehended  for  their  mistakes,  when,  as  often 
occurs,  they  miss  the  mark  in  their  commentaries,  in  so  far  as 
they  keep  solely  in  view  that  which  is,  in  all  the  books  of 
Scripture  the  grand  and  main  object,  the  glory  of  God  and  the 
salvation  of  man.  For  Holy  Scripture  is  an  unmeasurable,  and, 
in  its  whole  extent,  unnavigable  sea,  the  depth  of  which  has  been 
sounded  by  none ;  it  is  a  field,  the  cultivation  of  which  will  afford 
exercise  to  the  intellectual  labours  of  man  during  centuries.  The 
"Word  of  God  is  infallible  perfect  truth, — there  is  nothing  therein 
unconsidered,  disconnected,  or  self-contradictory ;  where,  however, 
we  do  not  understand  the  sense  and  the  connection,  there  the 
fault  lies  not  in  the  Word  of  God,  but  m  the  darkness  and 
bluntness  of  our  understanding.  When  these  statements  occur, 
which,  at  the  first  blush  appear  to  stand  in  contradiction  to 
other  statements,  the  diflerent  passages  ought  to  be  held  opposite 
each  other;  nor  ought  we  to  hold  obstinately  to  a  single  one 
without  any  regard  to  the  others,  but  view  the  whole  in  the  light 
of  all.  ^^^lat  I  mean  will  appear  clearly  by  the  following 
example:  Arius*  defended  his  heresy  with  the  passage,  John  xiv. 
28,  '  My  Father  is  greater  than  I.'  Now  Arius,  along  with  this 
statement,  ought  to  have  weighed  the  following,  John  iii.  16, 
'  For  God  so  loved  the  world,  that  He  gave  His  onhj  herjotten 
Son:'  and  farther,  cnaj).  x.  30,  '  I  and  my  Father  are  one;'  again, 

•  Arius,  the  well-kno\*Ti  false  teacher,  presbyter  of  Alexandria  in  the  first 
half  of  the  fourth  century,  denied  the  cqualitj'  in  essence  of  the  Son  with  the 
Father.  Although  his  doctrine  was  condemned  by  the  Church,  the  sect  called 
after  his  name  maintained  itself  for  a  consideral)le  time,  and  much  disturbed  the 
peace  of  the  Church. 


24^0  HIS  STANDING-POINT. 

chap.  xvi.  15,  'All  tilings  that  the  Father  hath  are  mine;'  and 
chap.  xiii.  3,  'Jesus,  knowing  that  the  Father  had  given  all  things 
into  His  hands.'  Had  Arius  compared  these  and  countless  other 
passages  of  a  similar  bearing  from  the  gospel  of  John,  with  the 
statement,  '  My  Father  is  greater  than  I,'  he  would  have  found 
that  this  passage  bore  reference  alone  to  the  human  nature  of 
Christ,  that  in  this  he  was  less  than  his  Father,  not  in  His  divine 
nature."  "  Almost  every  error  comes  from  the  liter alists,  who 
wrest  the  letter  in  a  manner  contrary  to  the  true  sense.  The 
letter  is  for  the  sake  of  the  sense,  and  is  designed  to  serve  it,  not 
the  sense  the  letter;  and  the  letter  must  be  explained  according 
to  the  spirit  and  the  true  sense,  else  the  former  were  nothing  but 
a  deception  and  a  delusion.  For  there  is  not  a  word,  the  very- 
plainest  and  simplest  word  that  can  be  spoken  on  earth,  which 
if  one  is  bent  upon  chicanery  and  deception,  may  not  be  wrested 
from  its  true  sense  and  falsified.  Therefore  it  is  not  only  with 
Holy  Scripture,  but  with  every  law,  with  every  precept,  order  or 
edict  that  is  issued,  with  every  speech,  or  use  of  language  what- 
ever, a  standing  rule,  that  the  purport  and  sense  shew  the  con- 
tents and  significance  of  the  words,  and  not  that  the  dark,  and  as 
yet,  comparatively  speaking,  unintelligible  word  be  allowed  to 
overmaster,  to  confuse,  and  mistify  the  sense.  This  may  be  shown 
by  innumerable  examples  from  Holy  Scripture,  as  well  as  from 
profane  books ;  I  shall  illustrate  it  by  a  single  one.  Christ  com- 
mands :  '  If  thy  foot  offend  thee,  cut  it  off.'  If  we  were  to 
estimate  the  sense  of  these  words  according  to  the  literal  standard, 
it  would  be  requisite  to  take  from  man  not  only  one  foot  but 
every  foot  he  had,  even  although  he  had  as  many  as  the  centi- 
pedes or  the  sea-urchins.  But  if  we  keep  to  the  true  sense  and 
purpose  of  Christ,  according  to  which  He  means  to  say,  that  we 
are  to  cut  off  from  the  body,  which  is  the  Church,  the  infectious 
part  that,  like  a  cancer,  would  eat  into  the  whole  if  not  removed, 
it  is  evident  that  not  the  foot  upon  which  a  man  goes  and  stands 
is  to  be  cut  away,  but  the  corrupt  brother  in  the  faith,  even 
although  he  might  in  other  respects  be  as  serviceable  as  one  foot 
is  to  the  other.  The  clear  sense  must  determine  the  less  clear 
sense,  not  the  words  the  sense.  The  words  of  Christ  are  spirit, 
not  letter;  therefore  one  ought  not  in  a  stubborn  and  violent 
spirit  to  hang  on  the  letter  alone,  but  to  take  the  letter  according 


HIS  STANDING-POINT.  2  Jjl 

to  the  spirit.  But  still  the  letter  must  uot  be  despisctl.  If  you 
say  the  letter  kills,  of  what  use  is  it  then?  I  reply:  this  is  a 
mode  of  speech ;  for  properly  speakiu"-,  it  is  not  the  letter  which 
kills,  but  he  kills  himself,  is  himself  the  cause  of  his  death,  who 
rests  upon  the  letter  alone,  and  pierces  not  to  the  sense  and  the 
spirit.  The  ropes  draw  not  without  the  horse,  nor  the  horse 
without  the  ropes,  but  both  when  they  are  united.  The  ropes, 
however,  keep  the  horse  in  the  straight  line.  If  there  were  no 
letter  in  Scripture,  each  would  speak  according  to  his  own  spirit. 
The  ■written  Word  is  therefore  the  rule,  and  the  rope  by  which 
all  is  to  be  directed.  The  spirit  of  truth,  i.e.  the  spirit  of  the 
believer,  illuminated  by  the  Spirit  of  God,  comprehends  the  letter, 
and  rides  it.  The  Spirit  wrests  not  the  letter  or  the  sense,  but 
it  clears  it  up,  and  makes  it  plain.  It  is  not  only  carnal,  it  is 
something  worse,  so  foolishly  to  hold  to  the  unintelligible  letter 
that  one  will  not  listen  to  the  clearer  word.  We  will  that  one 
reject  not  the  letter,  but  esteem  it  very  highly,  but  only  for  the 
right  understanding  of  the  sense,  else  the  letter  is  worse  than 
useless,  for  it  becomes  positively  hurtful." 

While  Zwingli,  according  to  these  principles  of  interpretation, 
which  will  hold  true  for  ever,  investigated  the  Scriptures,  and 
explained  their  meaning,  he  preserved  himself  from  the  errors  in 
which  others  were  involved,  so  that  the  Word  of  God  was,  in 
truth,  to  him  "a  lamp  to  his  feet  and  a  light  to  his  path."  An- 
«)ther  guiding  star  which  lighted  him  and  preserved  him  from 
error  was  faith,  which,  in  its  whole  depth  and  clearness,  and  a 
confidence  founded  upon  God,  he  seized  and  retained  firmly  in 
his  grasp.  Let  us  hear  how  he  expresses  himself  upon  the  mean- 
ing of  faith.  "  Faith,"  says  the  apostle,  "  is  the  substance  of 
things  hoped  for  (the  essential  confidence  in  the  things) ;  the  evi- 
dence of  things  not  seen."  The  meaning  of  the  apostle  thus  is, 
faith  is  something  substantial,  fundamental  in  the  soul,  not  a 
light  hap-hazard  dreaming  or  thinking,  which  shapes  itself  now 
so  and  now  so,  that  is,  something  uncertain ;  but  a  finn  and  sub- 
stantial confidence  of  the  soul,  with  which  it  entirely  depends  on 
that  hojted  for,  to  wit,  the  thing  which  can  alone  be  th<'  oliject  of 
hope  with  infallible  certainty.  The  expression,  "  the  things 
hoped  for,"  is  a  periphrasis  for  God,  ui>on  whom  alone  we  can 
with  truth  set  our  hope.     But  the  words  of  the  apo.stle  mean 

Q 


242  HIS  STANDING-POINT. 

farther,  that  faith  is  that  substantial  and  solid  thing  in  our  soul, 
vouchsafed  to  us  by  Him  who  is  the  object  and  the  confidence  of 
our  hope.  The  words,  "  and  the  evidence  of  things  not  seen," 
elucidate  the  first  part  of  the  statement ;  for  the  invisible  is  again 
a  circumlocution  for  the  one  God,  as  the  visible  denotes  the 
creature.  See  Eom.  i.  20;  2  Cor.  iv.  17,  18.  Thus  faith  rests 
alone  upon  Him  who  cannot  be  perceived  and  recognised  by  the 
senses,  but  of  whom  the  mind,  the  intellect,  the  soul,  with  reflec- 
tion and  confidence,  is  conscious.  Therefore  faith  can  neither  have 
reference  to,  nor  find  support  on,  any  creature,  but  has  alone  to 
do  with  the  one  invisible  God.  Thus  it  is  contrary  to  the  nature 
of  faith  to  turn  itself  upon  anything  visible,  i.e.,  upon  any  crea- 
ture as  creature.  Wlien  we  are  pointed  to  Christ,  this  is  done 
for  the  reason  that  he  is  God  and  man ;  but  to  his  humanity 
none  is  to  be  directed,  as  he  himself  says,  John  xii.  44 :  "  He 
that  believeth  on  me,  believeth  not  on  me,  (i.e.,  he  is  not  to  have 
faith  or  confidence  in  me  in  so  far  as  I  am  man),  but  on  Him  that 
sent  me."  Faith  is  consequently  the  essential  and  living  power 
of  the  soul  animated  by  the  Spirit  of  God,  which  rests  firmly  and 
immovably  upon  God,  who  is  invisible.  Man  is  thus  inwardly 
conscious  of  faith  in  the  soul,  which  then  springs  up  when  he 
begins  to  despair  of  himself  and  to  perceive  that  he  must  set  his 
confidence  upon  God  alone ;  then,  however,  arrives  at  perfection 
(is  perfected),  when  he  renounces  himseK  entirely,  and  gives  him- 
self wholly  up  to  the  Divine  mercy ;  but  so  that  inasmuch  as 
Christ  has  given  himself  for  him  he  reposes  full  confidence  in  it. 
But  how  is  the  believer  to  know  his  faith?  'Tis  then  thou  art 
free  from  sin  when  thy  soul  firmly  trusts  in  the  death  of  Christ, 
and  rests  upon  it.  But  this  faith  comes  not  from  man,  it  comes 
alone  from  God,  as  Paul  likewise  derives  it  from  the  Holy  Ghost, 
1  Cor.  xii.  9,  &c.  Flesh  and  blood,  i.e.,  man,  comprehends  not 
that  God  has  become  man,  and  that  through  His  death  the  whole 
world  has  received  new  life  and  blessing.  Man  reasons  much 
rather  in  this  way;  thou  hast  sinned,  consequently  thou  must 
suffer  the  penalty,  or  give  satisfaction.  So  run  human  contracts. 
He  who  believes,  however,  that,  by  the  death  of  Christ,  the  sins 
of  the  whole  world  have  been  atoned  for,  has  learned  it  from 
another  teacher,  namely,  from  God.  Faith,  then,  comes  not  from 
flesh  and  blood,  but  fi'om  God.    Flesh  and  blood,  i.e.,  man,  cannot 


Hia  STANDING-POINT.  243 

compieliend  this,  partly  because  what  is  good  in  hiiu  is  so  small, 
partly  because  his  sins  are  of  such  magnitude  and  of  such  number 
that  it  is  impossible  for  him  to  come  to  God.  When,  however, 
he  begins  to  recognise  and  believe  that  he  can  obtain  justification 
and  salvation  not  through  his  own  strength,  and  through  his  own 
righteousness,  but  alone  through  the  free  mercy  of  God,  such 
knowledge  and  belief  comes  to  him  from  God,  it  descends  to  liim 
from  heaven.  Such  a  man  is  bom  again ;  he  is  born  from  above, 
and  begins  a  heavenly  life;  his  former  life  displeases  him,  he 
abhors  sin,  and  acknowledges  himself  to  be  a  sinner  before  the 
Majesty  of  heaven ;  he  cleanses  liimself  daily  from  his  transgres- 
sions, he  feels  grief  for  past  sins,  and  gaiards  against  new  ones. 
If  he  falls,  he  quickly  rises  and  flies  to  God,  arms  himself  to 
battle  against  the  enemy,  and  stands  steadfast  at  his  post.  Neither 
does  the  proclamation  of  tlie  Word  work  such  a  faith  as  this ;  for 
we  see  that  many  hear  the  gracious  message  of  the  gospel  and 
yet  believe  it  not.  Nay,  the  greater  part  of  those  who  heard 
Christ  himself  remained  without  faith,  and  many  of  those  who 
can  talk  of  Christ  from  Holy  Scripture  trust  not  upon  Him,  as 
may  be  seen  in  those  who  seek  their  salvation  in  the  creature,  or 
in  external  things.  Tlius  faith  proceeds  not  from  human  reason 
or  intelligence,  but  alone  from  the  illuminating  and  drawing 
Spirit  of  God.  This  our  dear  Lord  Jesus  liimself  t(?aches,  John 
vi.  44 :  "  No  man  can  come  unto  me  except  the  Father  which 
hath  sent  me  draw  Irim."  He  then  proves  from  the  prophet.*? 
that  it  was  recognised  by  them  of  old  that  the  knowledge  of  the 
lledeemer  must  be  learned  from  God;  and  then  he  adds,  "Every 
man  therefore  that  hath  heard  and  hath  learned  of  the  Father 
cometh  unto  me,"  ver.  45  ;  from  which  words  we  ])lainly  j^erceive 
to  what  school  we  must  go  to  be  instructed  in  the  knowledge  of 
the  Son;  to  the  Father.  Thus  faith  can  come  from  no  quarter 
but  from  God.  One  man  can  shew  to  another  by  tlic  outward 
Word  with  what  love  God,  a.s  Father,  eml)races  us,  and  what  He 
has  given  us  in  His  Son.  This  consolation  the  evangelical 
preacher  can  re]»resent  and  ]irt)claim  to  the  dejected  and  doubt- 
ing conscience,  but  that  it  with  fidl  confidence  accept  it,  a])prove 
it,  and  finnly  believe  it,  this  he  cannot  effect.  He  who  believes 
a  preached  gospel,  aijd  trusts  in  Christ,  from  him  des]iair  evan- 
ishes, and  the  conscience,  staid  ujton  certain  and  undoubting 


244  HIS  STANDING-POINT. 

faith,  becomes  healed  and  pacified.  For  what  shall  He  refuse 
us,  who  has  given  His  only-begotten  Son  for  us?  But  that  a  man 
believes  this,  holds  fast  to  it,  and  becomes  transformed  to  a  new 
man  in  Christ,  this  is  the  work  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  Nevertheless, 
this  effect  is  sometimes  ascribed  to  the  evangelical  teacher,  and 
it  is  considered  to  be  the  effect  of  his  mediation,  as  when  Paul 
says,  "  He  hath  begotten  the  Corinthians  through  the  gospel."  In 
the  same  manner,  when  Scripture  ascribes  salvation  to  faith,  that 
is  attributed  to  the  nearer  and  more  known  cause  which  is  alone 
the  work  of  God.  It  is  God  alone  who  justifies  and  saves,  and 
that  out  of  pure  mercy  and  grace.  As  Paul  also  says,  Eom.  viii. 
SO :  "  AVliom  He  did  predestinate,  them  He  also  called ;  and  whom 
He  called,  them  He  also  justified."  To  speak  correctly,  then,  it 
is  election  and  not  faith  which  saves.  But  because  faith  is  the 
surest  sign  of  our  election,  that  is  here  ascribed  to  faith  which 
properly  belongs  to  election.  In  like  manner,  Paul,  when  he 
writes  to  the  Eomans,  chap.  x.  17,  "  Faith  cometh  by  hearing," 
attributes  to  the  nearer  and  to  us  better  known  cause  that  which  is 
alone  the  work  of  the  Spirit  and  not  of  the  outward  preaching. 
And  this  is  a  truth,  not  only  proved  to  us  by  such  testimonies  of 
Scripture  as,  "  No  man  cometh  unto  me  except  the  Father  draw 
him,"  and  "to  another,  faith  (is  given)  by  the  same  Spirit,"  1  Cor. 
xii.  9,  and  many  others,  but  by  daily  experience ;  for  we  see  that 
many  who  hear  the  preaching  of  the  gospel  believe  it  not.  Paul, 
however,  means  to  say  something  more  than  that  it  is  necessary 
that  the  Word  be  preached,  through  which  means  God  plants 
faith,  from  whom  all  growth  proceeds,  by  his  own  hand.  For 
even  apostolic  labour,  though  derived  from  the  power  of  God,  is 
but  a  means ;  the  inward  drawing  of  the  soul  is  the  immediate 
act  of  God's  Spirit.  Faith  likewise  comes  not  from  outward  things, 
but  alone  from  a  drawing  God.  Nor  can  outward  things  even  con- 
firm it.  Christ  indeed  says  :  "  If  I  had  not  done  among  them  the 
works  which  none  other  man  did,  they  had  not  had  sin,"  &c.  &c. 
These  words  seem  to  import  that  miracles  wrought  faith ;  but  this 
is  not  their  sense.  For  who  saw  greater  miracles  than  Pharaoh 
and  the  Pharisees?  And  who  believed  less  than  they?  There- 
fore signs  and  wonders  do  not  make  a  believer ;  they  lead  only  in 
so  far  to  faith  as  God  in  the  soul  of  man  is  operative  and  draws. 
From  this  stand-point  Zwingli  investigated  the  significance  of 


HIS  STANDING-POINT.  245 

the  "  sacraments,"  and  their  reference  to  the  work  of  salvation. 
By  sacrament,  the  Komans  understood  an  oath,  and  principally  the 
oath  which  soldiers  swore  when  they  joined  the  amiy, — the  oath 
to  follow  the  standards.     Latin  ecclesiastical  language  employed 
"  sacrament"  to  designate  a  sign  or  symbol  of  a  holy  thing.    ])Oth 
these  siguiiicatious  Zwingli  combined,  so  that,  according  to  him, 
"  the  sacraments  were  solemn  symbolical  assurances  and  promises, 
or  sigyis  of  obligation.     This  they  are  in  a  double  sense.    Firstly, 
because  God's  gifts  of  mercy  and  gi-ace  which  He  has  vouchsafed 
to  us  in  Christ  are  presentiated  and  assured  to  us  by  them. 
Hence  the  name  of  Sacrament  properly  belongs  to  those  holy 
transactions  alone  which  God  has  instituted,  commanded,  and 
ordained  in  His  Word,  which  itself  is  as  firm  and  sure  as  the 
oath  of  God  can  be.    Secondly,  "  Sacrament"  signifies,  in  respect 
to  us,  a  symbolical  obligation  upon  oath,  seeing  that  he  who 
receives  the  sacrament  binds  himself  thereby  to  do  that  which  is 
demanded  by  it.     He  who  has  been  marked  by  the  holy  rite  of 
baptism  will  hear  what  God  says  to  him,  will  learn  His  command- 
ments, and  live  according  to  them.    Wherefore  Paul  derives  from 
baptism  the  strongest  encouragements  to  ci"ucify  the  flesh.    Bap- 
tism is  thus  that  symbolical  sign  by  which  we  are  summoned, 
and  by  which  we  bind  ourselves  to  lead  a  new  life,  engaging  to 
shew  gratitude  to  the  grace  of  God,  which  has  been  done  to  us  in 
Christ,  who  has  washed  us  by  His  blood,  that  we  may  not  be  again 
stained  with  siiL     Baptism  does  not  regenerate  or  make  us  new 
men,  but  it  reminds  us  that  we  be  such,  or  at  least  that  we  seek 
to  be  such.     In  the  Holy  Supper  of  the  Eucharist,  we  comme- 
morate the  propitiation  made,  when  Christ,  the  God-man,  was 
offered  up  in  sacrifice  in  His  human  nature,  and  we  thank  God 
for  this  great  benefit,  obliging  ourselves  to  lead  a  Christian  life  with 
love  to  the  brethren.    While  in  this  holy  transaction  we  praise  the 
gracious  gifts  of  the  divine  goodness  and  mercy,  these  are  not  com- 
municated to  us  except  sjanbolically,  the  symbols  and  the  preached 
Word  simply  announcing  them  to  us.     It  is  the  Holy  Spirit 
alone  whicli  draws  th(^  mind  to  its  own  source  of  light  and  joy, 
by  which  the  souls  that  have  pined  in  despair  on  account  of  their 
sins  are  again  quickened  and  renewed  in  youth.     If  the  mere 
transaction  cnuld  do  anything  of  this  s»»rt,  then  wore  Judas  come 
to  himself  at'ain.  antl  had  not   left  the  s(i(ii'(\  nf  the  other  dis- 


246  HIS  STANDING-POINT. 

ciples  to  go  away  and  betray  his  Master.  Nay,  the  executioners 
themselves  who  nailed  Christ  to  the  cross,  or  blasphemed  Him 
at  the  cross,  had  changed  their  disposition,  and  had  not  given 
free  course  to  their  wickedness,  if  the  outward  things  had  brought 
faith  or  the  pardon  of  sins.  For  they  saw  that  thing  by  which 
the  sins  of  the  world  are  expiated,  not  symbolically  expressed, 
but  transacted  before  their  eyes.  However  nothing  of  the  kind 
followed.  For  only  those  repented  whom  the  Spirit  inwardly 
illuminated  to  recognise  Christ  as  their  Saviour,  and  whom  the 
Father  drew,  that  they  might  come  to  Him,  and  joyfully  receive 
Him.  Outward  things,  therefore,  can  only  announce  and  signify. 
Yet  Christ  condescends  to  call  the  bread  His  body,  which,  to 
speak  with  Augustine,  is  but  the  sign  of  His  body;  and  men 
enlightened  by  the  Spirit  of  God  follow  their  Master,  attributing 
to  the  holy  Eucharist  all  that  for  which  we  give  thanks  in  this 
solemn  act  of  praise.  They  call  it  the  body  of  the  Lord,  because 
we  therein  commemorate  that  Christ  became  man,  and  died  for 
us.  They  call  it  pardon  of  sins,  because  we  therein  give  thanks 
that  Christ  purged  away  our  sins  by  His  death.  They  call  it  a 
nourishment  of  souls,  because  in  it  He  is  exalted  who  alone  is 
the  undoubted  pledge  of  our  hope.  Not  as  though  the  natural 
bread  were  the  natural  body  of  Christ,  or  as  if  the  same,  eaten 
and  digested,  took  away  sin,  or  as  if  the  natural  bread  and  the 
natural  body  of  Christ  could  nourish  the  soul,  but  because  the 
divine  goodness  has  acted  towards  us  in  so  gracious  and  familiar 
a  way  as  to  present  certain  images  and  forms  of  inward  spiritual 
things  to  our  outward  senses,  which  signs  it  dignifies  with  the 
same  names  as  the  things  themselves  which  they  signify,  because 
they  are  the  symbolical  signs  and  intimations  of  the  more  sub- 
stantial realities.  Hence  the  holy  fathers  taught  that  the  sacra- 
ments consisted  of  two  things — of  the  visible  and  invisible,  or  of 
the  sensible  and  the  spiritual.  Not  as  though  the  bread  in  the 
Supper  were  at  once  the  sign  and  the  thing,  that  is,  the  real 
bread  and  the  real  body  of  Christ,  but  in  the  sense  that  the  bread 
is  the  sign,  while  the  thing  signified  is,  that  Christ  has  given 
himself  for  us,  and  been  actually  sacrificed,  which  is  confessed 
and  believed  by  the  partakers  of  the  Supper.  Of  this  reality  the 
bread  is  the  symbol  present  to  the  senses,  the  reality  itself,  how- 
•cver,  is  present  to  the  believing  soul.     Not  as  if  the  brend  were 


THE  ANABAPTLSTa  OF  ZUBICH.  24<7 

natural  and  visil)le  broad,  and  at  the  same  time  the  natural  and 
invisible  body  of  Christ,  but  the  bread  is  natural  and  visible 
bread  ;  the  thing,  however,  which  nourishes  the  soul,  namely, 
that  God  has  given  His  Son  for  us,  is  the  invisible.  Of  this 
invisible  the  bread  is  the  visible  sign.  Nor  is  it  meant  to  be 
asserted  that  the  bread  is  natural  bread  perceptible  to  the  senses, 
and  at  the  same  time  a  spiritual  power,  but  simply  that  the 
bread,  as  it  falls  upon  the  senses,  points  to  the  spiritual  renewal 
of  the  soul  which  is  etl'ected  through  faith  in  Christ  sacrificed  for 
us.  The  divinely  illuminated  men,  then,  who,  after  the  example  of 
Christ  their  teacher,  have  employed  very  strong  language  on  this 
subject,  have  not  done  wrong  in  so  doing,  inasmuch  as  they  per- 
ceived that  with  no  colours  could  they  sufficiently  magnify  the 
greatness  of  the  benefits  conveyed.  But  it  is  highly  objectionable 
in  us  to  be  so  foolish  and  perverse  as  to  attribute  to  a  thing  sym- 
bolical that  which  belongs  to  God,  and  at  once  to  transform  the 
Creator  into  the  creature,  and  the  creatui'e  into  the  Creator. 
Christ  has  not  instituted  the  sacraments  that  we  may  seek  or  place 
our  righteousness  in  them,  but  that  we  may  be  reminded  and 
stin-ed  up  by  them  to  arrive  at  true  righteousness  of  heart  and  faith ; 
for  the  external  signs  do  not  make  us  righteous,  but  they  point  us 
to  justification  by  faith,  and  they  awaken  us  to  holiness  of  life." 
Having  thus  surveyed  the  standing-point  which  Zwingli  took 
up  upon  this  gi"ound,  we  shall  pass  over  to  the  contests  wliich 
he  was  compelled  to  wage  from  the  position  which  he  assumed, 
and  first  of  all,  with  the  Anabaptists  of  Zurich. 


2.  The  Anabaptists  of  Zukich. — Their  Overtures  to 
Zwingli,  and  Factkjus  Spirit. 

We  have  already,  on  various  occasions,  alluded  to  those  men 
of  impetuous  character  who  plunged  into  the  conflict  of  the 
Eeformation  without  the  necessary  consecration  of  heart  and 
soul,  and  whom  Zwingli  was  oftentimes  compelled  to  exhort  to 
moderation  and  temperance  of  spirit,  lest  the  pure  and  healing 
stream  of  the  evangelical  movement  might  be  disturbed  by  their 
passions,  or  made  to  overflow  its  bank.'<.  These  men  became, 
after  they  had  failed  to  .shajM'  the  Kpfnrniatinn  according  to  their 


248  THE  ANABAPTISTS  OF  ZURICH. 

views,  the  founders  and  heads  of  the  sect  of  the  Anabaptists* 
Zwingli  himself  speaks  of  them  in  the  following  terms  :  "  They 
who  have  begun  with  us  the  strife  about  baptism  have  often 
before  this  time  entreated  us  to  found  a  new  church  or  commu- 
nity, free  from  sin.  These  were  fanatical  men  of  tiirbulent  dis- 
positions, who  had  already  formed  the  resolution  to  change  the 
freedom  of  the  gospel  into  the  license  of  the  flesh.  They  came 
to  us  ministers  of  the  Word  in  Zurich,  at  first,  indeed,  in  a 
friendly,  but  yet  in  so  importunate  a  spirit,  that  one  could  bode 
mischief  from  their  very  mien  and  bearing.  They  thought  it 
would  be  impossible  for  us  to  prevent  that,  even  among  those 
who  boast  themselves  as  belonging  to  the  gospel,  many  should  not 
be  found  who  would  stand  in  the  way  of  it.  It  could  never  be 
expected  that  all  should  live  as  Christians.  '  Now,'  said  they, 
'  according  to  the  Acts  of  the  Apostles,  the  faithful  separated 
themselves  from  the  others,  and  formed  a  new  church.  The 
same  thing  must  be  done  now.'  They  begged  us  to  publish 
a  declaration,  that  those  who  were  disposed  to  follow  Christ 
should  place  themselves  to  us,  in  which  case  they  promised  us 
that  our  host  would  far  exceed  that  of  the  unbelievers.  The 
community  of  the  saints  would  then  choose  their  council  or 
senate  from  among  themselves,  as  it  was  very  apparent  how 
many  disbelieving  and  impious  persons  were  to  be  found  in  the 
Council  and  in  the  present  mixed  Church.  We  returned  them 
the  following  answer :  '  It  is  undoubtedly  true  that  there  ever 
will  be  people  who,  though  confessing  Christ,  lead  ungodly  lives, 

*  An  attempt  has  been  made  to  prove  that  Anabaptism  consti-ucted  itself  out 
of  the  various  sects  of  the  middle  ages.  In  Zurich,  however,  this  cannot  be 
shewn  to  have  been  the  case.  The  principles  of  the  Anabaptists  might  indeed 
find  a  favoured  soil  where  such  seeds  existed,  but  in  general  it  is  without  doubt 
true  what  Hase  says  in  his  work  entitled  "  The  New  Prophets."  "  Anabaptism 
has  had  its  originators  and  heads  in  various  regions;  but  everywhere  among  the 
people  of  German  extraction,  where  the  Reformation  has  reared  its  standard,  we 
meet  with  Anabaptists  without  any  proveable  connection  with  each  other,  and 
in  so  multiform  shapes,  that  any  individual  origination  is  out  of  the  question.  We 
can  only  conclude  that  they  shot  up  simultaneously  upon  the  common  soil  of 
the  Reformation.  Anabaptism,  a  posthumous  natural  son  of  the  Reformation, 
bearing  a  full  family-likeness  to  the  first-born  son.  Protestantism,  fighting  with 
the  latter  against  the  Papacy,  had  of  necessity  to  fall  out  and  part  company  with 
it.  Rebaptisation  was  the  solemn  rite  by  which  it  formed  itself  into  an  exclu- 
sive sect.  Yet  rebaptisation  was  but  the  outward  badge  of  Anabaptism  falling 
on  the  eye,  like  the  cup  of  the  Hussites." 


THEIR  OVERTURES  AND  FACTIOUS  SPIRIT.  24-9 

and  iiiake  a  mock  oi  virtue,  nay,  of  godliness  itself.  If  such, 
however,  perseveringly  give  themselves  out  as  Christians,  and 
their  practice  is  such  as  to  permit  of  their  being  suffered  hy  the 
Church,  they  yet  belong  to  our  party,  according  to  the  principle 
which  Christ  himself  laid  down  at  the  planting  of  the  gospel,  a 
time  which  has  so  much  resemblance  to  our  own,  '  He  who  is 
not  against  us  is  with  us.'  He  has  also  conmianded  that  we 
should  let  the  tares  grow  with  the  wheat  till  the  harvest.  Thereby 
we  have  the  confident  hope  that  of  those  who  are  disinclined  to 
godliness  several  will  daily  change  and  amend  their  lives.  But 
even  although  this  result  should  not  take  place,  it  is  still  possible 
for  even  the  most  pious  to  live  among  the  godless.  The  example 
of  the  apostles  is  not  applicable  here,  since  they  from  whom 
they  separated  did  not  confess  Christ.  Nor  would  the  greater 
part  of  these  join  in  a  separation  from  us,  even  were  they  more 
intimately  bound  to  Christ  than  we  ourselves.  In  the  continual 
administration  of  the  Word,  we  shall  proclaim  to  all  that  which 
it  is  necessary  for  them  to  know,  if  they  will  not  trilie  with  their 
own  salvation,  and  we  doubt  not  the  number  of  believers  will 
continue  to  increase  steadily  by  the  continual  exhibition  of  the 
Word,  and  not  by  the  tearing  asunder  of  the  body  into  many 
part.s.'" 

To  the  leaders  of  this  extravagant  party  belonged  Conrad 
Grebel,  a  descendant  of  one  of  the  most  honourable  families  of 
Zurich,  who  had  formerly  enjoyed  the  friendship  of  his  brother- 
in-law  Vadian,  and  through  him  of  Zwingli  also.  He  had 
•studied  at  Vienna  and  Paris,  and  had  made  acquirements  in 
learning  by  no  means  common,  especially  in  the  Greek  language; 
but  he  had,  by  a  life  of  dissipation  and  debaucheiy,*  squandered 
away  his  patrimonial  means,  and  so  ruined  his  health,  and  so 
suUied  his  mind,  that  as  Hottinger  says,  "  he  resembled  a  mirror, 
that,  stained  by  an  impure  breath,  takes  up  and  reflects  even  the 
most  beautiful  image  in  deformed  and  distorted  shapes."  To 
him  was  united  Felix  Manz,  the  natural  son  of  a  prebend  and  a 
Zurich  maiden.     He  also  had  received  a  learned  education,  and 

•  We  have  learned  aliovf  in  the  Sixth  Section  the  mehnuholv  end  of  hio 
father  on  the  scaffold.  The  money  which  the  hoarv-headed  father  <lrew  from 
foreign  prince",  in  violation  of  his  oath  and  duty,  the  son  dissiiiatcd  in  rioting 
anrl  dcl)aucher\ . 


250  THE  ANABAPTISTS  OF  ZUEICH. 

had  made  considerable  proficiency  in  Hebrew.  Both  had  at  first 
expected  of  Zwingli  that,  as  "  Eector  of  the  Schools,"  he  would 
have  caused  some  of  the  prebends  to  be  suppressed,  and  appointed 
and  paid  them  out  of  the  funds  as  teachers,  Grebel  of  the  Greek, 
and  Manz  of  the  Hebrew  languages.  As,  however,  this  could 
not  be  done  without  an  infringement  of  the  rights  guaranteed 
and  obligations  already  entered  into,  and  Zwingli,  besides,  reposed 
no  great  confidence  in  them,  they  sought  to  satisfy  their  ambition, 
and  accomplish  their  interested  objects  in  another  way.  To  the 
above  two,  there  united  themselves  some  men  from  the  people, 
and  some  country  priests,  who,  without  the  unction  of  the  Spirit, 
and  more  from  hatred  to  the  papacy  than  love  to  the  Lord,  sided 
with  the  Keformers,  and  who,  in  the  sequel,  gave  themselves  up 
to  their  impure  zeal  and  fanaticism,  instead  of  subjecting  them- 
selves to  the  discipline  of  the  Word  of  God,  and  the  guidance  of 
His  Spirit.  These  were  joined  by  William  Eoeubli,*  parson  at 
Wytikon,  John  Broedlein  at  Zollikon,  Simon  Stumpf  at  Hoengg, 
and  a  run-away  monk  Blaurock,  called  George  of  the  house  of 
Jacob,  of  Chur.  At  first  they  had  no  fixed  party-standard  to 
call  together  the  new  community,  and  bring  their  fanaticism  into 
action.  The  waves  of  the  peasant  insurrection,  which  raged  at 
this  time  in  Germany,  threw  the  notorious  Thomas  Muenzer,"!"  on 
the  Swiss  frontier.  In  AValdshut,  this  fanatic  made  the  acquaint- 
ance of  the  parson  of  the  place,  Balthazar  Hubmeier,  whom  he 
entirely  gained  over  to  his  objects.  On  Muenzer's  approaching 
Switzerland,  and  holding  intercourse  with  the  Zurichers  of  like 
opinions,  they  soon  discovered  a  badge  of  distinction  for  the  new 
community :  it  was  rehaptism.  They  began  to  depreciate  infant 
baptism,  and  to  represent  it  as  higldy  objectionable.:|:     "  It  sur- 

*  William  Roeubli  was  a  native  of  Rotenburg  on  the  Nekar;  parson  at  Basle 
he  caused  the  Bible,  instead  of  the  relics,  to  be  carried  in  a  procession,  and,  in 
consequence,  was  obliged  to  flee  and  came  to  Zurich,  wliei'e,  as  we  have  seen 
above,  he  made  an  ostentatious  marriage,  as  the  first  ecclesiastic  who  renounced 
celibacy.  Zwingli  passes  this  judgment  upon  him  ;  he  was  bold  and  loquacious, 
but  had  little  understanding. 

t  Thomas  Muenzer,  born  at  Stolberg  on  the  Harz,  had  studied  at  Wittenberg, 
and  was  afterwards  preacher  at  Zwickau,  where  he,  with  like-minded  friends, 
the  so-called  "  Zwickau  prophets,"  founded  the  sect  of  the  Anabaptists. 
Banished  from  Saxony,  he  came  over  to  Suabia,  where,  chiefly  by  the  sermons  of 
these  fanatics,  the  peasant  insurrection  was  excited  to  Waldshut. 

X  They  called  it  a  "  dog's  bath,"  "  an  invention  of  the  devil,"  or  when  they 
would  use  milder  language,  '"an  invention  of  the  pope  and  anti-Christ." 


THKIU  OVEKTUKEiS  AND  FACTIOUS  Sl'lKlT.  251 

prised  US  iiiueli,"  says  Zwingli,  "  that  tliey  were  so  zealous  against 
it.  but  at  length  we  observed  that  it  was  for  the  reason  that,  on 
infant  baptism  being  rejected,  they  might  have  a  pretext  for 
organising  their  church  under  the  banner  of  rebaptisation." 
Zwingli  held  a  disputation  with  them  upon  this  controversial 
point,  and  endeavoured  to  instruct  them.  With  this  view,  he 
arranged  a  meeting  with  them  once  a-w^eek,  when  he  hoped  that 
arguments  and  counter-arguments  miglit  open  their  minds  to 
better  opinions,  (Zwingli  himself  candidly  confesses,  that  he  held 
for  a  time  the  opinion,  that  it  would  be  better  not  to  baptise  the 
young  till  they  had  reached  a  convenient  age.)  But  instniction 
was  not  the  object  of  these  fanatics  ;  the  abolition  of  infant  bap- 
tism, and  the  introduction  of  anabaptism,  were  only  to  serve  as 
pretexts  for  bringing  a  spirit  of  insurrection  to  bear  on  all  order 
in  Church  and  State.  With  the  change  in  baptism,  the  Holy 
Supper  was  to  be  degraded  to  an  evening  revel,  which  they  held 
under  the  name  of  "  setting  up  the  table  of  the  Lord"*  in  particu- 
lar houses  at  nocturnal  meetings.  At  the  same  time,  they  rejected 
all  regularly  ordained  preachers,  maintaining  that  no  paid  clergy- 
man can  preach  the  truth.  In  the  state,  they  recognised  no 
authority.  "  No  Christian,"  they  said,  "  can  assume  a  civil  office, 
or  carry  the  sword,  or  be  judge;  none  is  obligated  to  pay  rents, 
tithes,  or  dues ;  all  chattels  are  common  to  all."  Community  in 
wives  wa<3  also  not  only  taught  by  them,  but  practised,  as  appears 
from  the  words  of  Zwingli :  "  Into  whatever  house  they  enter,  they 
lay  snares  for  the  fidelity  of  wives,  and  innocence  of  daughters, 
and  cause  them  to  tall;  for  in  their  spotless  church  fornication, 
adultery,  perjury,  theft,  deceit,  and  whatever  more  wicked  can 
be  conceived,  happens  far  more  frequently  than  among  those 
whom  they  decry  with  the  o])probrious  epithets  of  the  'flesh'  and 
'  devil'  I  speak  the  truth,  and  could,  if  necessary,  prove  what 
I  say.  l^ut  in  whatever  crime  or  vice  they  are  taken,  their 
defence  is  ever  the  same:  I  have  not  sinned,  I  am  no  more  in 
the  flesh  but  in  the  Spirit;  I  am  dead  to  the  flesh  and  the  flesh  is 
dead  to  me." 

Zwingli   recognised,    at    an    early    period,    the    great    danger 

•  Such  a  "  Stij»pcr"  Huhmeicr  telfhrntcd  at  WHld.-ihut,  n  militarv  cnptain  l»y 
his  side,  surrounded  Jn- shoutinp  and  drinkinji  siddicrs,  with  the  resonance,  now 
of  a  light  .«on}t.  now  <<(  tx  pious  jisnlm  in  wild  ronfn«ion. 


252  THE  ANABAPTISTS  OF  ZUEICH. 

threatened  by  these  dangerous  and  delusive  doctrines;  and  with 
a  wise  cii'cumspectiou,  he  adopted  measures  fitted  to  avert  it. 
We  have  seen  above  how,  in  order  to  preserve  the  change  in 
public  worship  and  its  ordinances  from  the  evil  influence  of  such 
people,  he  gave  over  the  decision  in  regard  to  any  alteration  to 
be  made  to  the  Council,  with  consent  of  the  congregation.  The 
legal  civil  authority,  in  its  relation  to  the  Christian  moral,  he 
considered  in  his  sermon,  "  On  Divine  and  Human  Justice." 
"  The  Scriptural  Character  of  the  Christian  Minister,"  in  a 
treatise.  But  wdtli  a  true  appreciation  at  once  of  their 
fanaticism,  and  of  the  principles  of  Christian  charity,  he  dis- 
suaded against  any  violent  interference  with  them,  although 
they  nevertheless  proceeded  to  the  wildest  excesses.  In  Zol- 
liken,  Broedlein  and  Roeubli  excited  the  people,  on  the  Pente- 
cost of  1524,  to  break  in  pieces  the  images,  the  altars,  and  even 
the  baptismal  font.  This  occurrence  was  the  more  vexatious 
to  Zwingli  and  his  friends,  as  it  took  place  when  they  were 
seriously  deliberating  about  removing  the  images  in  a  legal  way, 
and  changing  the  mass  into  the  celebration  of  the  Supper.  The 
Council  interfered  against  this  act  of  violence,  imprisoning 
Eoeubli,  and  banishing  Broedlein  from  the  town  and  territory  of 
Zurich.  Broedlein's  friends  gave  him  a  feast  at  parting,  at  which 
Manz,  Blaurock,  and  one  after  the  other,  a  number  of  uninvited 
guests  appeared,  many  of  whom,  heated  by  wine  and  exciting 
speeches,  desired  to  receive  the  "baptism  of  the  regenerate." 
Manz  and  Blaurock  consented.  The  rebaptised,  baptised  again 
others,  and  so  the  fanaticism  spread.  Upon  the  following  Sun- 
day, as  another  preacher  entered  the  pulpit  at  ZoUiken,  Blaurock 
stood  up  in  the  centre  of  the  church,  and  commanded  him  to 
keep  silence :  "  I  am,"  said  he,  "  the  door,  by  me  if  any  man 
enter  in  he  shall  find  pasture ;  whoever  goes  in  otherwise  is  a 
thief  and  a  robber ;  as  it  is  written :  '  I  am  the  good  shepherd ; 
the  good  shepherd  giveth  His  life  for  the  sheep,'  so  I  give  my 
body  and  my  life  for  my  sheep,  my  body  to  the  dungeon,  and  my 
life  to  the  sword,  or  the  fire,  or  the  rack,  wherever,  like  the 
blood  of  Christ  on  the  cross,  it  may  be  drained  from  the  flesh. 
I  am  the  beginner  of  baptism  and  the  bread  of  the  Lord,  along 
with  my  elect  brethren  in  Christ,  Conrad  Grebel  and  Felix  Manz. 
Therefore  the  pope  with  his  followers  is  a  thief  and  a  murderer. 


THEIR  OVERTUKES  AND  FACTIOUS  SPIltlT.  253 

Zwingli  and  Leo  Jiul,  too,  with  their  followers,  are  thieves  and 
nnirderers  until  they  recognise  this."  So  ran  the  confused  creed 
of  this  fanatic.  It  was  with  difficulty  that  the  under-governor 
maintained  the  peace,  so  as  to  enable  the  new  parson  to  deliver 
liis  sermon.  Meantime,  the  spirit  of  fiinaticisni  blazed  up  still 
higher.  Bands  of  these  people  carrvnng  lighted  torches  pro- 
menaded the  streets  of  Zurich,  shouting  dark  prophetic  sayings, 
and  held  from  time  to  time  nocturnal  assemldies,  "  to  set  up  the 
table  of  the  Lord."  "Whole  crowds  of  deceivers  and  deceived 
clothed  themselves  in  sackcloth,  bestrewed  themselves  with  ashes, 
and  girding  themselves  vnth.  ropes,  cried  on  the  public  streets: 
"  Woe,  woe  to  thee,  Zurich ;  in  forty  days  thou  shalt  be  destroyed." 
The  Council  ordered  the  ringleaders  of  the  sect  to  appear  at  the 
Town-Hall,  that  they  might  there  defend  their  doctrine  against 
Zwingli  in  open  disputation,  or  be  instructed  by  him  in  a  better, 
and  turned  from  their  error.  They  made  excuses ;  "  they  had 
already  spoken  enough  with  Zwingli  upon  their  doctrine,  and 
might  not  answer  him  any  more,  especially  as  in  consequence  of 
his  long  speeches,  they  could  never  come  to  it."  They  were 
obliged  at  length  to  yield  obedience.  Accordingly,  on  the  17th 
Januaiy  1525,  the  Disputation  with  the  Anabaptists  took  place, 
in  which  Zwingli  gained  a  complete  victory  over  them,  all  tlicir 
arguments  being  thoroughly  answered.  The  Council  then  pub- 
lished the  foUowing  ordinance:  "An  eiTor  having  arisen  in 
respect  of  baptism,  to  the  effect  that  infants  should  not  be  bap- 
tised until  they  amve  at  years  of  discretion,  and  knowledge  of 
the  faith;  and  some  having,  in  consequence  thereof,  left  their 
children  unbaptised,  we  have  ordered  a  disputation  upon  this 
matter  on  the  gi'ounds  of  Holy  Scripture;  and  have  ordained  that 
without  regard  to  this  error,  children  must  be  baptised  as  soon 
as  bom ;  and  those  who  have  left  their  children  unbaptised,  must 
have  this  nte  performed  within  the  next  eight  days.  "\Mioever 
will  not  conform  to  this  decree,  shall,  with  wife  and  child,  with 
purse  and  property,  quit  the  town  of  our  lords,  tlieir  jurisdiction 
and   territor}^,    or  take  what   farther  may   Ix-fall   him."*      The 

*  Hottinpcr,  in  lii.s  "  Ili-story  of  the  Confederates  dminfr  the  Chureh-schism," 
2d  Section,  page  M,  ha.s  incorrectly  given  tlic  contvnt.s  of  this  decree  of  the 
Council,  it  being,  according  to  him,  to  the  effect  that  all  children  are  hence- 
forward to  be  baptised  before  their  eighth  year,  on  the  penalty  of  banishment. 


254  PUBLIC  DISPUTATION  WITH  THE  ANABAPTISTS. 

expatriation  which,  in  conformity  with  this  decree,  was  pronounced 
on  some  of  the  party,  was  not  in  accordance  with  Zwingli's 
sentiments,  for  he  would  rather  have  had  the  fanatical  spirit  die 
out  under  his  powerful  influence  at  Zurich,  than,  by  the  dispersion 
of  its  authors,  have  caused  it  to  be  more  widely  disseminated. 
Those  left  behind  in  Zurich  still  continuing  their  irregular  pro- 
ceedings, a  number  of  them  were  inclosed  in  the  Augustine 
cloister,  that  they  might  be  brought  from  their  errors  by  Zwingli 
and  his  colleagues,  who  frequently  visited  them  for  this  purpose. 
But  this  measure  was  equally  unavailing.  The  outlawed  carried 
their  doctrines  farther  and  farther,  and  the  imprisoned  persisted 
obstinately  in  their  delusion.  Nay,  they  even  gave  out  that 
Zwingli,  in  his  conversations  with  them,  had  been  refuted  and 
put  to  silence.  Grebel,  indeed,  had  the  audacity  to  write  to 
Vadian:  "Zwingli  has  conferred  with  the  greatest  simpleton 
amongst  us,  and  yet  he,  with  the  help  of  God  and  His  truth,  has 
put  him  to  shame,  with  all  his  wisdom."  In  these  circumstances, 
some  of  the  Anabaptists  themselves  desired  a  new  public  dis- 
putation with  Zwingli,  and  in  their  petition  to  the  government 
to  this  effect  they  gave  the  assurance,  that  "  whatever  is  then 
discovered  to  be  in  accordance  to  the  Word  of  God,  we  shall 
stake  our  persons  and  lives,  our  honour  and  property  upon.  As, 
however,  we  have  not  received  from  God  the  gift  so  to  speak 
with  Zwingli  that  he  may  thoroughly  understand  us,  or  we  fully 
express  ourselves,  we  beg  you  will  permit  certain  who  have  been 
banished  for  this  matter  to  appear  with  a  safe-conduct  at  said 
Conference,  and  thereafter  to  return  to  their  present  place  of 
residence  free  of  danger." 


3.  Public  Disputation  with  the  Anabaptists, 

6th  November  1525. 

Zwingli's  Opinions  on  Baptism,  Rebaptisation,  and  Infant 
Baptism. 

Zwingli  supporting  the  petition  of  the  Anabaptists,  a  Dispu- 
tation was  fixed  for  the  6th  November  1525,  and  a  free  safe- 
conduct  secured  to  all  who  were  willing  to  attend  the  same,  and 


PUBLIC  DISPUTATION  WITH  THE  ANABAPTISTS. 


9.Tn 


defend  their  views  and  oi)inions.  As  rulers  of  the  Conference, 
there  were  appointed :  Dr.  Vadian  of  St.  Gall,  Dr.  Sebastian 
Hofmeister  of  Schaffliausen,  Comthur  Schmidt  of  Kuessnacht, 
and  Abbot  Joner  of  Kappel.  Zwingli,  along  with  Leo  Jud  and 
Kasper  Grossniann,  undertook  to  speak  against  the  Anabaptists, 
who  assembled  in  the  town  in  great  numbers  from  all  the  com- 
munes of  the  canton,  under  their  chief  men,  Grebel,  Manz,  and 
Blaurock.  The  town-hall  was  already  filled  with  the  multitude 
of  auditors  and  participators  in  the  proceedings,  when  a  fresh 
crowd  thronged  in  with  the  exclamation,  "0,  Zion!  0,  Zion! 
rejoice  Jerusalem!"  which  made  it  necessary  to  adjourn  the 
meeting  to  the  Great  IMinster  Church. 

Here  Zwingli  developed,  with  lucidness  and  dignity,  his  views 
of  baptism,  and  the  projmety  of  infant  ba])tism,  and  rebutted 
with  force  the  objections  of  his  opponents.  "  In  respect  of  bap- 
tism,"* ho  said,  "  nearly  all  the  teachei's  in  the  Church  have 
erred  since  the  days  of  the  apostles,  by  attributing  to  the  water  a 
significance  which  it  has  not,  and  which  the  holy  apostles  have 
not  taught ;  and  thus  they  have  misapprehended  the  words  of 
Christ,  John  iii.  5,  when  he  speaks  of  water  and  the  Spirit. 
Baptism  has  ibur  different  senses  in  Holy  Scripture.  Firstly,  it 
signifies  the  dipping  in  water,  whereby  alone  we  are  designated 
or  consecrated  to  a  Christian  life.-f  Secondly,  it  is  taken  to  repre- 
sent the  inward  illumination  and  attraction  when  man  acknow- 
ledges and  depends  on  God,  and  this  is  the  baptism  of  the  Spirit.  I 
Thirdly,  it  signifies  the  outward  doctrine  of  salvation,  and  the 
outward  washing  with  luater.^  Fourthly,  and  finally,  it  stands  for 
the  outward  tvashing  and  the  inward  faith  at  once,\\  that  is,  the 
designation  and  obligation  to  lead  a  Chnstian  life,  and  for  the 
assurance  of  salration  in  its  whole  extent.     Now  as  some  pay  no 

•  Accordiii};  to  Bullinpcr's  testimony,  wlio  was  present  both  at  tliis  and  the 
former  Disputation  with  the  Anabaptists,  Zwingli  answered  their  objections  in 
tlie  same  way,  and  with  the  same  arguments  as  he  enijiloys  in  liis  afterwards 
puldished  writinp,  "  Bapti.sm,  Anabaptism,  and  Infant  Baptism;"  and  as  he 
himself  says  as  nnuh,  we  have  thought  proper  to  take  from  it  what  coneems 
this  section. 

t  Baptism  by  water,  or  ordinary  baptism. 

J  The  ba])tism  of  the  Spirit,  or  inward  bajitism. 

§  The  baptism  of  water  and  doctrine  at  once. 

II  The  baptism  of  water  and  the  Spirit  at  once. 


256  PUBLIC  DISPUTATION  WITH  THE  ANABAPTISTS. 

regard  to  these  distinctions  made  by  Scripture,  they  run  into 
strange  errors,  and  judge  of  things  which  they  do  not  understand. 
We  shall  establish  each  of  the  above  significations  by  passages 
from  Holy  Scripture.  In  John  iii.  23  it  is  said:  'And  John 
was  baptising  in  JEnon,  near  to  Salim,  because  there  was  much 
water  there:  and  they  came  and  were  baptised.'  Here  it  is 
clear  that  water-baptism  alone  is  spoken  of,  it  being  said  there 
was  much  water  there,  which  could  alone  serve  a  water-baptism. 
Of  the  baptism  of  the  spirit,  Christ  speaks  in  the  Acts  of  the 
Apostles,  chap.  i.  5 :  '  For  John  truly  baptised  with  water ;  but  ye 
shall  be  baptised  with  the  Holy  Ghost  not  many  days  hence.' 
Here  Christ  clearly  marks  the  distinction  between  the  two  bap- 
tisms. John  baptised  only  with  water,  and  the  outward  doctrine. 
Nay,  the  apostles,  and  John,  and  all  that  ever  were,  have  no  other 
baptism  to  administer  but  that  of  water  and  of  doctrine;  for 
the  baptism  of  the  Spirit  no  man  can  give,  but  God  alone. 
Therefore  Christ  says,  immediately  thereon,  'but  ye  shall  be 
baptised  with  the  Holy  Ghost.'  This  signifies  the  inward  teach- 
ing, drawing  towards  and  fastening  on  God.  Christ,  however, 
speaks  not  of  such  in  the  sense  as  if  He  rejected  the  baptism 
of  John;  for  the  external  baptism  of  John,  of  Christ,  and  His 
disciples  is  one  and  the  same  baptism,  and  what  Christ  says  of 
the  baptism  of  John  holds  good  of  all  human  baptism.  Peter, 
Paul,  James  baptised  only  with  water,  or  with  outward  doctrine, 
for  with  the  Spirit  they  could  not  baptise,  God  alone  baptising 
with  the  Spirit,  how,  whom,  and  when  He  will.  In  regard  to 
the  third  sense,  the  doctrine  of  the  apostles  and  their  baptism 
shews  that  'baptism'  is  taken  for  the  outward  doctrine  and 
baptism  by  water  at  once,  as  John  himself  says,  John  i.  16,  'I 
baptise  with  water.'  Now,  John  did  not  baptise  only  with  water, 
for  he  united  instruction  with  it.  As,  however,  his  doctrine,  as 
well  as  that  of  the  apostles  was  but  external,  and  of  no  avail  to 
influence  the  heart,  it  was,  in  as  far  as  they  were  concerned,  as 
much  an  outward  thing  as  the  dipping  in  water,  or  the  sprinkling 
with  it.  Therefore  he  himself  says,  'I  baptise  with  water,' 
although  he  taught  not  less  than  baptised,  as  he  speaks  after- 
wards, '  I  am  the  voice  of  one  crying  in  the  wilderness.'  But 
we  find  'baptism"  taken  for  doctrine  in  John  iii.  22:  'After 
these  things  came  Jesus  and  his  disciples  into  the  land  of  Judea : 


ZAVINGLl's  OPINIONS  ON  BAPTISM.  2;>7 

:um1  tluMc  he  tan-ic<l  with  tliciu,  ;iinl  liapliscd."     How  ?     J)id  Christ 
haptise?     Yet  it  is  iniincdiati'ly  altcrwanls  a(klod,  John  iv.  2: 
"  Though  Jesus  himself  baptised  7iot,  but  his  disciples."     It  is 
undeniable  that  baptism  here,  in  the  first  instance,  means  teach- 
ing.    For  Jesus  tanrjht.  which  was   specially  His   office,  while 
Mis  disciples  administered  the  baptism  by  water.     How  Christ, 
howe\ner,  drew  the  heart  thereby,  He  himself  alone  knows.     The 
baptism  of  John  is  likewise  taken  for  doctrine  in  :\ratt.  xxi.  2;"), 
and  Acts  xix.  1.     We  .said,  fourthly,  that  ba])tism  signifies  the 
Christian's  order  of  salvation,  that  is,  the  inward  faith  which 
saves,  as  it  is  said  in  1  Peter  iii.  21 :  '  Baptism  doth  only  now 
save  us.'     Now  baptism  does  not  save  us,  neither  that  of  doctrine 
nor  of  water,  hnt  faith.    But  that  one  might  receive  water-baptism, 
unaccompanied  by  faith,  appears  from  John  vi.  66.     No  one  of 
those  disciples  were  unbaptised.     For  we  hear,  John  iv.  1,  'He 
made  and  baptised  disciples ;'  but  He  reproaches  them,  vi.  56, 
'  Ye  also  have  seen  me,  and  believe  not,'  and  in  the  same  chapter, 
ver.  24,  'But  tliere  are  some  of  you  that  believe  not.'     Yet  He 
baptised  thorn.     Nor  was  Judas  believing,  as  it  is  written,  ver. 
70,  '  Have  not  I  chosen  you  twelve,  and  one  of  you  is  a  devil?' 
It  is  e^^dent  from  what  has  been  said  that  Judas  M-as  l)aptised, 
for  Christ  made  many  more  di.sciples  than  John,  and  baptised 
also  through  Ins  disciples.     They  cannot,  however,  have  been 
unbaptised,  seeing  they  baptised  others.      Thus  water-baptism 
has  ])een  administered  to  those  who  did  not  believe,  and  many 
have  received  it  who   believed  not.     We  find  here  and  there 
examples  of  the  baptism  by  the  Spirit's  being  bestowed  before  the 
baj^tism  by  water.     Nicodemus,  Joseph  of  Arimathea,  Gamaliel, 
were  l)elie vers,  but  secretly;  hence  they  were  without  doubt  not 
l>aptised,  else  they  had  not  been  able  to  conceal  it,  for  baptism 
is  granted  and  received  for  the  .sake  of  the  other  fellow-believers, 
and  not  for  his  .sake  who  receives  it,  as  though  it  elfected  some- 
thing l)y  him.     In  the  Acts  of  the  Apostles,  chap.  x.  44,  Cornelius 
and  all  who  heard  Peter  received  the  Holy  Chost  before  thoy  were 
baptised.     Thus  water-V>a]itism  and  8pirit-ba])tism  are  not  neces- 
sarily united.     Nay,  throughout  Holy  Scripture  we  find  more 
frequently  that  the  Spirit  was  granted  after  baptism  than   before 
or  during   it.      But  we  shall  quote   a   phiiner  example,  which 
iiTefragably  demonstrates  that  there,  where  wnter-liaptism  has  not 

B 


258  ZWINGLl'S  OPINIONS  ON  BAPTISM. 

reached,  faitli  has  been  existent,  and  salvation  obtained.  The  thief 
on  the  cross  believed,  and  was  the  same  day  with  Christ  in  para- 
dise, and  yet  he  had  not  been  baptised  with  any  outward  baptism. 
From  thence  we  learn  that  baptism  is  an  outward  ceremonial  sign, 
to  which  salvation  is  not  bound,  as  we  have  shewn  in  the  example 
of  the  thief  and  others ;  also  that  they  are  not  necessarily  con- 
current with  one  another,  nor  must  of  necessity  be  united.  We 
shall  here  more  closely  consider  the  baptism  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 
It  was  an  outward  and  an  inward  baptism  at  the  same  time.  The 
latter  is  taught  by  John,  in  Matt.  iii.  11,  and  Luke  iii.  16:  'I 
indeed  baptise  you  with  water  unto  repentance:  but  He  that 
Cometh  after  me  is  mightier  than  I,  whose  shoes  I  am  not  worthy 
to  bear :  He  shall  baptise  you  with  the  Holy  Ghost  and  with 
hre.'  Here,  in  the  first  place,  we  learn,  that  although  John  says, 
'  I  baptise  you  with  water,'  he  will  by  no  means  be  understood 
to  say  that  his  office  consisted  alone  in  baptising  with  water.  For 
could  he  have  effected  by  water  alone  the  knowledge  of  sin  and 
repentance?  One  must  be  a  very  long  time  bathed  in  water  ere 
he  come  to  the  knowledge  of  himself  and  repentance,  or  seek 
Christ  as  His  Eedeemer  and  Comforter.  Therefore  John  will  say 
nothing  else  here  but,  '  I  am  a  weak  vessel,  which  can  only  bring 
the  doctrine  outwardly  to  you,  and  give  you  the  outward  baptism 
of  water,  and  am  not  so  strong  as  to  soften  the  heart ;  but  He  that 
Cometh  after  me  is  much  stronger  than  I:  He  is  able  to  pierce 
into  the  heart.  He  wiU  baptise  you  inwardly  with  His  Spirit, 
inflame  you  with  His  love,  or  endow  you  with  tongues,'  &c.  &c. 
The  baptism  of  the  Spirit  is  nothing  else  than  that  of  which 
Christ  speaks,  John  vi.  44  :  'No  man  can  come  to  me  except  the 
Father  draw  him.'  And  what  the  drawing  signifies.  He  imme- 
diately shews  in  the  words,  '  Every  man  that  hath  heard  and 
learnt  of  the  Father  cometh  unto  me.'  Thus  the  inward  baptism 
of  the  Spirit  is  nothing  else  than  the  teaching  which  God  causes 
our  hearts  to  experience,  and  the  drawing  whereby  they  are  com- 
forted and  assured  in  Christ.  This  baptism  none  can  administer 
but  God,  nor  can  any  be  saved  without  it ;  but  a  man  can  be 
saved  without  doctrinal  baptism,  and  without  water  baptism. 
Proof:  the  thief  on  the  cross  was  neither  outwardly  taught 
nor  baptised,  and  yet  was  saved.  It  thus  follows,  that  faith  is 
the  alone  necessary  condition  which  saves  us  who  hear  the  Word 


ZWINOLl'S  OPINIONS  ON   BAPTISM.  259 

]»reuche'd ;  and  thi.s  no  nian  plants  within  us  but  Gud  alone.  The 
other  baptism  of  the  Spirit  is  an  outward  sign,  namely,  the 
viiracle  of  ton(]nes.  This  sign  is  not  given Jbr  the  sake  of  those 
who  speak  with  foreign  tongues  or  languages,  for  they  have  been 
already  inwardly  assured  of  salvation ;  but  for  the  sake  of  the 
unbelievei-s.  ^Vllat  unbelievers?  Those  to  whom  the  gift  of 
tongues  was  communicated?  No,  for  they  were  believing.  But 
they  were  granted  to  the  believing,  as  a  sign  and  a  wonder  to  the 
\inbelieving.  This  outward  baptism  of  tongues  the  Lord  liiniself 
hath  promised,  Acts  L  5 :  'Ye  shall  be  baptised  with  the  Holy 
Ghost  not  many  days  hence.'  Now  they  had  already  become 
believei-s,  but  the  fire  of  love  was  increased,  and  the  tongues 
granted,  M'hen  the  words  of  Christ  were  fulfilled  at  Pentecost. 
Tliis  5igu  is  not  necessary  to  salvation,  for  it  was  vouchsafed  to 
few,  and  but  rarely,  (Acts  ii.  3  ;  x.  46 ;  xvi.  31);  it  was  a  miracle, 
and  was  done,  like  other  miracles,  ivhen  God  willed.  Thus,  by 
the  mouth  of  the  Son  of  God  himself,  the  miracle  of  tongues  is 
called  a  baptism.  As  now  this  sign  sometimes  took  place  before, 
sometimes  after,  wapter-baptism,  in  all  fairness  of  reasoning 
doctrinal  baptism  may  be  likewise  communicated  before  or  after 
water-baptism." 

Here  the  Anabaptists  objected:  Christ  says.  Matt,  xxviii.  19, 
20,  "  Go  ye  therefore  and  teach  all  nations,  bajitising  them  in  the 
name  of  the  Father,  and  of  the  Son,  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost,"  &c. 
It  is  plain  from  this  passage  that  mankind  are  to  be  taught  before 
they  be  bapti.sed. 

Ziuingli:  Through  these  words  ye  very  far  deceive  yourselves 
and  others,  looking  wholly  to  the  succession  of  the  words,  and 
obstinately  cr}ing :  Christ  says,  "  Teach  and  baptise  them."  In 
the  first  place,  look  at  the  words  which  immediately  follow, 
"  Teaching  them  to  observe  all  things  whatsoever  1  have  com- 
manded you  ;"  for  from  thence  we  learn  that  1)ai)tism  is  a  com- 
mencing sign,  and  that  then  only  after  it  has  been  comnmnicated 
is  the  teaching  of  all  the  things  which  Chri.st  commanded  to  take 
place.  As,  however,  you  lay  so  great  weight  on  the  literal  succes- 
sion of  the  words,  "Teach  and  baptise  them,'  I,  for  my  jtart,  am 
willing,  for  your  sakes,  to  stand  to  it  "  Teach  all  nations  and 
baptise  them,"  say  ye.  and  I  say,  "  Baptise  Ihem  in  the  name  of 
the  Father,  and  of  the  Son,  and  of  tlie   Holy  Gho.sl  ;  teaching 


260  PUBLIC  DISPUTATION  WITH  THE  ANABAPTISTS. 

them  to  observe  all  things  whatsoever  I  have  commanded  you." 
Xow,  I  say,  which  of  us,  you  or  I,  gives  the  plainer  word  in 
respect  of  teaching.  You  have,  indeed,  "  Teach  all  nations,  and 
baptise  them ;"  on  the  other  hand,  ye  have  not  ivhat  should  be 
taught.  We  express  it  plainly,  "  Teach  them  to  observe  all  things 
whatsoever  I  have  commanded  you;"  and  this  stands  after  bap- 
tise. Moreover,  the  passage  in  the  Greek  nins  very  differently 
from  the  way  in  which  you  interpret  it ;  for  what  we  translate 
by  "teach"  is,  in  the  original,  "Make  to  disciples"  {i^ahnvaotri), 
or,  "  Bring  to  me  as  to  a  master."  Accordingly,  the  passage  in 
the  Greek  text  runs  exactly  so,  "  Go  ye,  make  all  nations  my  dis- 
ciples, .  baptising  them  in  the  nam,e  of  the  Father,  of  the  Son, 
and  of  the  Holy  Ghost ;  teaching  them  to  observe  all  things  what- 
soever I  have  commanded  you."  See  now  if  the  literal  succession 
of  the  words  does  not  much  rather  speak  for  us,  although  I  do 
not  so  obstinately  cleave  to  the  letter,  for  the  letter  of  the  gospel 
may  not  less  kill  than  the  letter  of  the  law.  I  know,  however,  in 
the  faith  which  I  have  to  God,  and,  according  to  my  understand- 
ing, small  though  it  be,  of  the  Word  of  God,  that  this  is  the  right 
true  natural  sense ;  for  Christ  previously  said,  at  the  calling  of 
His  disciples,  "  He  would  make  them  fishers  of  men."  Wliat 
does  that,  however,  signify,  but  the  bringing  men  to  Christ  ?  But 
I  shall  not  contend  farther  in  respect  to  the  position  and  sense  of 
the  words.  I  would  only  shew  you  that  is  in  vain  that  with 
these  you  undertake  to  do  away  infant -baptism.  For,  even 
although  the  words  were  interpreted  in  your  favour,  they  have  no 
bearing  at  all  on  the  baptism  of  children,  so  that  they  may  not 
be  baptised  before  the  doctrinal  baptism.  The  Jews  and  heathens 
were  to  be  made  disciples  of  Christ  by  doctrinal  and  water-bap- 
tism, but  the  children  of  believers  belong  ah-eady  to  the  Church 
of  Christ,  as  also  the  children  of  the  Israelites  belonged  to  the 
people  of  God. 

Anabaptists :  If  these  words  have  no  reference  to  children,  then 
they  ought  not  to  be  baptised,  l)ecause  Christ  has  here  instituted 
baptism. 

Zivingli :  Here  you  err  again,  because  you  do  not  know  tlie 
Scripture,  nor  rightly  understand  it.  (Matt.  xxii.  29.)  Baptism 
was  not  here  first  instituted  ;  for  Christ  baptised  a  long  time  pre- 
vious to  this  through  His  disciples,  and  He  himself  was  baptised 


PUBLIC  DISPUTATION  WITH  THE  ANABAPTISTS.  20 1 

before  this  ;  cDiisequently,  it  must  h:u'e  betni  instituted  at  some 
earlier  period.  Wlierefore,  observe,  baptism  was  instituted  by  God 
tlu'ough  Jolin,  who,  for  this  reason,  is  ealled  "  Tlie  Baptist."  "  Be- 
hold," says  God,  through  IMalachi,  chap.  ill.  1,  "I  will  send  my 
messenger,  and  he  will  prejiare  the  way  before  me."  This  messen- 
ger, or  angel,  is  no  one  else  but  St.  John  the  Baptist.  (]\Iark  i.  4.) 
John,  however,  ^^•hen  he  came,  baptised,  as  appears  plainly  from 
all  the  gospels.  But  if  he  came  to  make  ])lain  and  prepare  the 
way  of  the  Lord,  and  baptised,  then  it  is  evident  he  has  begun 
the  baptism  of  the  Lord. 

Anabaptists :  Tlie  baptism  of  John  and  the  baptism  of  Christ 
were  not  one  and  the  same,  but  they  are  diilerent  baptisms;  for 
the  baptism  of  Jolm  was  but  a  prefiguration  or  foreshadowing 
of  the  baptism  of  Christ. 

Zwingli:  I  know  that  you  have  not  only  the  papists  but  all 
the  divines,  too,  for  your  assertion.  But  with  the  strong,  invin- 
cible "Word  of  God  which  is  on  my  side,  1  trust  to  shew  that  ye 
are  all  in  the  wrong.  That  the  baptism  of  John  and  the  outward 
baptism  of  Christ  were  the  same  the  already  quoted  passage  from 
tlie  prophet  ]Malachi  shews.  For  if  John  had  another  baptism 
than  that  of  Christ  he  had  not  begun  to  prepare  the  way  of  the 
Lord,  but  he  had  made  a  \uay  of  his  own,  which,  however,  was 
contraiy  to  the  way  of  the  prophets.  These  have  alone  led  to 
God  and  His  work  ;  of  themselves  have  they  begun  nothing  new 
or  different,  ^^^len,  however,  ye  maintain  that  the  baptism  of 
John  is  but  a  type  of  that  of  Christ,  ye  do  violence  and  injustice 
both  to  Christ  and  John.  To  Christ,  because  you  regard  not 
what  He  says,  Luke  xvi.  IG:  "Tlie  law  and  the  prophets  were 
until  John  ;  since  that  time  the  kingdom  of  f!od  is  preached," 
&c.  Now,  if  the  law  and  the  prophets  continued  till  John,  and 
since  tliat  the  kingdom  of  God  is  preached,  then  John  with  his 
baptism  could  have  been  no  type  or  shadow  ;  for  it  is  clear  from 
the  statement  of  Christ  that  John  preached  the  kingdom  of  God, 
Le.,  the  gospel ;  consequently,  he  began  the  baptism  of  Christ  as 
he  began  tlie  doctrine  of  his  kingdom.  For  how  can  it  be  said 
that  his  doctrine  wa.s  the  light  and  his  baptism  only  a  sliadow 
of  a  future  baptism  ?  To  John  you  do  violence  and  %\Tong  in 
making  him  a  shadow,  and  counting  him  to  the  Old  Testament, 
lie  being,  according  to  the  order  of  God.  a  preacher  of  the  go.'^pel. 


2()2  PUBLIC  DISPUTATION  WITH  THE  ANABAPTISTS. 

preaching  and  revealing  it  so  plainly  as  no  prophet  ever  did,  and 
he  being  the  first  who  pointed  to  the  Lord  Jesns  Christ  when  the 
time  of  His  revelation  came,  as  it  is  said  in  John  i.  29-31 :  "  The 
next  day  John  seeth  Jesus  coming  unto  him,  and  saith,  Behold 
the  Lamb  of  God,  which  taketli  away  the  sin  of  the  world.  This 
is  he  of  whom  I  said,  After  me  cometh  a  man  which  is  preferred 
before  me  :  for  he  was  before  me.  And  I  knew  him  not :  but 
that  he  should  be  made  manifest  to  Israel,  therefore  am  I  come 
baptising  with  water."  From  these  verses  we  learn  plainly  that 
John  came  to  reveal  Christ  to  the  people  of  Israel ;  therefore  he 
was  no  shadow-maker,  but  a  revealer  of  the  Eedeemer  of  the 
whole  world. 

Anabaptist :  John  himself  calls  his  baptism  only  a  water- 
baptism  ;  1  >ut  the  baptism  of  Christ  is  not  a  water-baptism  alone, 
consequently  the  baptism  of  John  and  of  Christ  cannot  be  the  same, 

Zwingli  :  Had  you  oj^ened  your  eare  wide  enough  you  had  long 
heard  the  answer  to  this  objection.  Did  John  only  baptise  with 
water?  No.  Then  know  and  understand  that  when  here  he 
speaks  of  baptising  with  water  he  does  not  mean  the  dipping  in 
or  besprinlvling  with  water  alone,  but  he  means  also  his  doctrine ; 
for,  by  a  water-baptism,  he  could  not  teach  them  to  recognise 
Christ.  Therefore  he  specially  understands  here,  when  he  speaks 
of  baptising  with  water,  the  doctrine ;  this  he  so  administered, 
that  he  taught  them  to  recognise  Christ,  and  to  place  their  hopes 
iipon  Him. 

Anabaptist :  It  is  impossible  that  the  baptism  of  John  and  the 
l:)aptism  of  Christ  are  one  and  the  same  ;  for  John  could  not  bap- 
tise with  the  Holy  Ghost,  as  He  himself  says.  Matt.  iii.  11,  But 
Christ  baptised  with  the  Holy  Ghost. 

Zwingli  :  Be  grateful  that,  like  the  fox,  you  yourselves  bring 
the  skin.  Tell  me,  when  the  disciples  baptised,  or  when  one  now 
baptises,  with  what  does  one  baptise  ?  With  the  Holy  Ghost,  oi- 
with  water?  You  must  acknowledge  that  the  disciples  and  all 
men  administer  nothing  but  the  outward  baptism  of  doctrine  and 
of  water,  and  that  they  are  not  able  to  l)aptise  inwardly  with  the 
Holy  Spirit.  Tell  me  now  if  the  baptism  of  the  disciples  were  the 
baptism  of  Christ,  for  ye  will  have  it  that  your  baptism  is  that  ol' 
Christ?  But  if  John  administered  the  baptism  of  water  and  of 
doctrine  just  as  the  disciples  did,  how  much  more  is  the  baptism 


PUBLIC  DlsrUTATlON   WITH  THE  AJSAJUI'TIST^!.  263 

of  John  nothing  but  the  baptism  of  Christ,  he  Juwiug-  been, 
according  to  the  order  of  God,  a  founder  of  the  doctrine  and  of 
the  baptism  ?  The  baptism,  however,  which  Christ  received  from 
John  himself  proves,  in  the  clearest  manner  possible,  that  John's 
and  His  own  baptism  were  the  same.  Christ  has  been  baptised 
as  a  pattern  and  example  for  us,  you  must  admit.  Now,  if  Christ 
was  baptised  with  the  baptism  of  John  as  an  example  for  us,  we 
likewise  must  be  baptised  with  John's  baptism.  The  baptism, 
however,  was  not  John's  but  Christ's,  although  the  ignorant  then, 
as  in  our  own  day,  called  it  the  baptism  of  John,  although  it  was 
just  as  little  his  as  the  baptism  performed  by  Paul,  or  Clcophas, 
or  Apollos,  were  theirs,  and  which  I'aul  repudiated  as  his,  and 
would  by  no  means  sutler  to  be  called  his,  1  Cor.  i.  1 2.  If,  then, 
Christ,  together  with  the  apostles,  were  baptised  unto  John's 
baptism,  there  cannot,  in  truth,  be  more  than  one  baptism,  and  if 
we  be  baptised  according  to  the  example  of  Christ,  then  we  must 
of  necessity  be  baptised  by  John's  baptism.  There  is  but  07ie 
baptism,  a\  liich  John  began,  and  which  continues  to  the  present 
day.  And  if  the  baptism  with  which  John  baptised  should  not 
last  to  all  eternity,  then  neither  Christ  nor  the  apostles  were 
baptised  witli  the  right  baptism.  Away,  then,  with  such  futile 
objections.  Paul  exhorts  the  Ephesians,  chap.  iv.  5,  6,  with  great 
propriety,  to  unity,  for  they  are,  "  One  Lord,  one  faith,  one  bap- 
tism, one  God  and  Father  of  all,  who  is  above  all,  and  through 
all,  and  in  you  alL"  Anniliilate  this  passage  of  Paul's,  if  you 
can,  ye  baptism-splitters.  If  John  has  taught  one  Spirit,  gathered 
into  one  botly,  taught  only  one  hope  in  Christ  Jesus,  only  one 
faith,  only  one  God  and  Father,  as  Christ  and  the  apostles,  why 
allow  not  his  baptism  to  be  07ie  baptism  with  the  one  baptism  of 
Christ.     God  give  you  understanding  ! 

Anabaptist:  The  doctrine  of  John  and  that  of  Christ  and  the 
apostles  were  dill'erent,  for  John  preached  the  law  and  repentance, 
Christ  and  the  apostles,  on  the  other  hand,  preached  the  gospel. 
Tlie  doctrine  tlius  being  different,  the  baptism  of  John  was 
ditt'ercut  from  the  baptism  of  Christ 

Zwingli:  In  substance  John  preached  the  gospel,  as  Christ 
himself  and  the  aposth^s;  although  I  know  well  that  Christ's 
preacliing  was  more  powerful,  mure  bcautil'ul  and  .'Stronger  than 
that  of  any  other  man,  Matt.  vii.  2J).     Mark  describes  the  com- 


26-i  PUBLIC  DISPUTATION  WITH  THE  ANABAPTISTS. 

meiicement  of  Christ's  preaching  in  the  following  words,  Mark  i. 
14,  15:  "Now  after  that  John  was  put  in  prison,  Jesus  came 
into  Galilee,  preaching  the  gospel  of  the  kingdom  of  God,  and 
saying,  The  time  is  fulfilled,  and  the  kingdom  of  God  is  at  hand : 
repent  ye,  and  believe  the  gospel."  But  John  also  made  the 
same  announcement,  as  Matthew  relates  in  the  following  words, 
chap.  iii.  1,  2:  "In  those  days  came  John  the  Baptist,  preaching 
in  the  wilderness  of  Judea,  and  saying,  Eepent  ye :  for  the  king- 
dom of  heaven  is  at  hand."  Here  it  must  be  well  observed  that 
the  gospel  has  two  parts:  the  one  consisting  of  repentance  and 
amendment  of  life ;  the  other  of  confidence  to  God  through  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  So  Christ  himself  taught;  Luke  xxiv.  47: 
"And  that  repentance  and  remission  of  sins  should  be  preached 
in  his  name  among  all  nations,  beginning  at  Jerusalem."  The 
gospel  indeed  is  sometimes  designated  by  the  word  "  repentance" 
alone,  as  in  Acts  xi.  18  :  "Then  hath  God  also  to  the  Gentiles 
granted  repentance  unto  life."  Christ,  however,  can  alone  raise 
the  Spirit  to  life,  for  although  we  feel  repentance,  yet  we  have 
not  peace  of  soul ;  but  when  we  believe  on  Christ,  then  it  is  we 
first  experience  joy  and  life.  Sometimes  Scripture  terms  the 
pardon  of  sin  the  gospel,  as  in  Acts  x.  43 :  "To  him  give  all  the 
prophets  witness,  that  through  his  name  whosoever  believeth  in 
him  shall  receive  remission  of  sins."  Here  the  gospel  is  called 
the  remission  of  sins.  We  have  thus  found  that  John  preached 
the  gospel,  that  is,  the  one  part  of  it,  faithfully,  therefore  ye  ought 
not  to  exclude  him  from  the  list  of  Evangelists  or  preachers  of 
the  gospel,  since,  where  it  is  said  repentance  is  preached,  the 
whole  gospel  is  meant,  as  has  been  proved  above.  So  Mark  says, 
chap.  vi.  12:  "  And  they  went  out  and  preached  that  men  should 
repent."  But  even  although  we  leave  this  distinction  out  of 
sight,  yet  we  can  prove  that  John  preached  the  gospel  as  clearly 
as  any  apostle.  In  John  i.  29,  he  says,  "  Behold  the  Lamb  of 
God,  which  taketh  away  the  sin  of  the  world."  Here  is  the 
whole  sum  of  the  gospel,  in  so  far  as  it  means  the  grace  of  God 
by  which  Christ  the  Lamb  of  God  taketh  away  the  sins  of  the 
world.  Shortly  after,  he  says,  "  And  I  saw  and  bare  record  that 
this  is  the  Son  of  God."  This  is,  however,  the  very  confession 
of  faith  on  which  Christ  builds  his  Church,  Matt.  xvi.  16-18. 
Christ  teaches  ofttimes  through  parables  that  He  is  the  true  Son 


PUBLIC  DISPUTATION  WITH  THE  ANABAPTISTS.  265 

of  (Jod,  and  that  he  who  believes  on  Him  has  eternal  life,  as  iu 
John  iv.,  vi.,  vii.,  &c.  Because  it  is  expressed  iu  parables,  is  it  les3 
the  message  of  the  grace  of  God?  I  think  not.  If  I  shew,  then, 
that  John  preached  the  very  same  doctrine,  it  is,  I  hope,  proved 
that  John,  not  less  tliau  the  other  messengers,  preached  the 
gospel  CJo  and  read  what  he  says  to  his  disciples  and  the  Jews, 
who  came  to  Him  about  purification,  concerning  Christ,  John  iii. 
27-36,  especially  the  two  last  verses :  "  The  Father  loveth  the 
Son,  and  hath  given  all  things  into  his  hand.  He  that  believeth 
on  the  .Son  hath  everlasting  life:  and  he  that  believeth  not  the 
Son  shall  not  see  life  ;  but  the  wrath  of  God  abideth  on  him." 
What  apostle  has  called  Christ  Jesus  more  plainly  the  Son  of 
God  into  whose  hands  the  Father  hath  committed  all  things? 
AMio  has,  in  a  clearer  and  shorter  form,  expressed  the  whole  sum 
of  the  gospel  than  the  God-commissioned  baptiser  has  done  in 
this  address  ?  "What  is  this :  "  Go  ye  into  all  tli^  world  and 
preach  the  gospel  to  every  creature.  He  that  believeth  and  is 
baptised  shall  be  saved;  but  he  that  believeth  not  shall  be 
damned?"  Mark  xvi.  15,  16.  Is  it  not  even  the  same?  Paul 
says.  Acts  xix.  4 :  "  John  verily  baptised  with  the  baptism  of 
repentance,  saying  unto  the  people,  that  they  should  believe  on 
him  which  should  come  after  him,  that  is,  on  Christ  Jesus." 
Is  it  not  the  gospel  when  sinners  are  taught  to  rei)ent  and  amend 
their  ways  ?  As  he,  however,  who  feels  repentance  would,  without 
hope,  have  fallen  into  despair ;  God  sent  His  Son  to  be  our  com- 
fort, and  the  sure  pledge  of  our  redemption.  To  Him  John 
pointed  very  distinctly.  He  testified  that  this  is  the  Son  of  God, 
John  L  Si.  He  said :  "  He  that  believeth  on  the  Son  hath  ever- 
lasting life,"  John  iil  36.  Is  not  this  the  fundamental  and  clear 
gospel?  Accordingly,  the  doctrine  of  John,  of  Christ,  and  the 
apostles,  is  one  and  the  same  doctrine,  and  proclaims  the  salvation 
of  all  men  through  Christ  Jesus.  Him  John  preached  as  the 
coining,  he  pointed  to  him  also  'as  the  present  Saviour,  as  did  also 
the  apostles.  Turn  to  Matt.  x.  7 ;  Mark  vL  12 ;  Luke  x.  9.  They 
also  preached  the  kingdom  of  (Jod,  the  salvation  tlirougli  Christ, 
although  He  was  not  yet  crucified;  and  Christ  jiroclainis  himself 
as  the  Saviour,  although  He  had  not  yet  suffered  death.  This,  I 
say,  that  ye  dividers  of  l)aptism  may  not  assert  John  jireached 
only  the  coming  Christ,  the  apostles  and  we  preach  the  slain 


266  PUBLIC  DISPUTATION  WITH  THE  ANABAPTISTS. 

Eedeemer.  For  lie  preached  even  as  Christ  himself  and  His 
disciples  preached.  Thus  the  doctrine  of  John  is  the  same  as 
the  doctrine  of  Christ,  as  his  baptism  is  one  and  the  same  with 
the  baptism  of  Christ. 

Anabaptist:  If  the  baptism  and  doctrine  of  John  were  the 
same  with  the  baptism  and  doctrine  of  Christ,  how  comes  it  that 
the  apostle  Paul  rebaptised  those  twelve  disciples  of  John,  who 
had  only  received  John's  baptism.  Acts  xix.  1,  &c.?  Does  not 
this  passage  clearly  prove  our  assertion  that  those  are  to  be  bap- 
tised again  who  received  baptism  before  they  were  properly 
instructed?  Does  it  not  clearly  shew  that  John's  baptism  is  less 
than  Christ's  baptism? 

Zwingli :  That  the  doctrine  and  baptism  of  John  are  the  same 
with  the  doctrine  and  baptism  of  Christ,  we  have  already 
sufficiently  established  and  proved,  and  this  passage  from  the 
Acts  makes  nothing  against  our  proof  if  we  will  only  rightly 
understand  it.  The  matter  here  referred  to  is  as  follows :  ApoUos 
was  a  very  learned  Jew,  as  we  learn  from  Acts  xviii.  24!,  but 
instructed  only  in  the  elements  of  the  Lord's  doctrine,  ver.  25. 
The  little  which  he  knew  of  the  doctrine  of  Christ  he  had  learned 
from  John  or  his  disciples,  not  from  Christ  or  his  disciples. 
Hence  it  is  said  he  only  knew  the  baptism,  or  much  rather  the 
doctrine  of  John,  (for  baptism  here  stands  for  doctrine.)  He 
knew,  however,  the  doctrine  of  John  as  imperfectly  as  he  knew 
the  doctrine  of  Christ,  for  had  he  understood  the  full  sense  of  the 
doctrine  of  John,  he  would  have  known  essentially  the  gospel. 
Now  so  much  as  this  Apollos  knew  he  taught  faithfully  and 
zealously,  Acts  xviii.  25  ;  Aquila  and  Priscilla  having,  however, 
come  to  him,  they  taught  him  the  way  of  the  Lord  more  fully. 
Mark  this,  that  that  which  he  previously  called  the  "  baptism," 
he  now  calls  the  "  doctrine,"  ver.  27.  By  this  Apollos  the  twelve 
men  in  question,  chap.  xix.  1,  &c.,  were  instructed.  Now  as  he 
himself  knew  not  the  way  of  the  Lord  fully,  the  twelve  without 
doubt  knew  it  still  less;  for  it  cannot  easily  be  supposed  that 
they  surpassed  their  Master,  who  was  so  well  versed  in  the  Scrip- 
tures. On  Paul's  coming  to  Ephesus,  where  Apollos,  who  had 
from  thence  sailed  for  Achaia,  had  taught  before  him,  Paul  began, 
according  to  his  custom,  to  preach  the  gospel.  There  met  him 
the  twelve,  who  gave   themselves  out   as  disciples   of  Christ. 


i'UBLk;  disputation  with  the  anabaptists,  2(j7 

After  Piiul  had  convinced  himself  of  their  deficient  knowledge, 
he  inquired  of  them  whether  they  had  received  the  Holy  Ghost, 
i.e.,  whether  they  stood  right  with  God,  and  whether  their  hearts 
were  comforted.  (He  made  no  inquiry  ahout  the  tongues,  such 
not  being  necessary  to  perfectness  in  tlie  gospel.)  They  then 
manifested  their  ignorance,  and  confessed  they  had  not  so  much 
as  heard  whether  there  be  any  Holy  Ghost.  Paul  then  asked 
them  unto  what  then  they  had  been  baptised,  i.e.,  what  had  been 
taught  them,  unto  what  they  had  been  directed  in  the  doctrine 
communicated  to  them.  They  refer  to  nothing  either  in  the 
doctrine  of  John,  or  in  the  doctrine  of  Christ,  but  sim])ly  name 
the  teacher  whose  doctrine  they  yet  did  not  fully  understand. 
Just  as  in  the  present  day  some  land-lo]iers  say  they  are  Lutheran 
or  Evangelical,  although  they  have  nothing  evangelical  either  in 
doctrine  or  life  about  them  ;  they  but  fatten  upon  the  godly 
without  working.  Not  that  I  mean  to  compare  these  twelve 
honest  men,  in  regard  to  the  deception  practised,  to  such  knaves, 
except  in  so  far  as  disinclination  is  concerned,  to  admit  their 
ignorance  manifested  in  their  giving  themselves  out  as  Christians 
and  disciples.  Paul,  on  discovering  this  desire  to  cloak  their 
ignorance,  told  them  that  which  they  themselves  did  not  know, 
namely,  that  John  baptised  with  the  baptism  of  repentance. 
Mark  here  if  baptism  and  baptising  can  be  anything  else  but 
doctnnaiing  and  indoctrinating.  Accordingly,  the  sense  of  the 
passage  quoted  by  you  is  the  following:  John  taught  the  doc- 
trine of  repentance,  and  through  it  also  the  assurance  of  grace 
(thus  the  two  parts  of  the  gospel),  and  exhorted  the  people  to 
believe  on  Him  who  should  come  after  him,  that  is,  on  Christ. 
It  cannot,  however,  be  proved  that  the  twelve  men  had  any- 
where received  water-baptism,  for  we  cannot  find  that  Apollos 
gave  them  the  bapti.sm  of  water,  we  only  know  that  he  zealously 
taught,  as  tar  as  he  was  able,  the  baptism  of  John,  (here  the 
word  is  plainly  used  in  the  sense  of  doctrine,)  Acts  xviii.  25. 
John  taught,  and  at  the  same  time  baptised  with  water.  Chri.st 
taught,  His  disciples  baptising  with  water.  And  if  this  Apollos 
had  been  baptised  with  water,  Luke  would  not  have  omitted 
mentioning  it  It  i.s,  however,  highly  pr(il)abh'  that  these  twelve 
received  from  Apollos  instruction  in  the  elements  of  Christian 
doctrine.       For  I<uko    means   to  shew,    when    ho    tells  ns  that 


268  PUBLIC  DISPUTATION  AVITH  THE  ANABAPTISTS. 

ApoUos  had  been  in  Ephesus,  and  but  imperfectly  taught  that 
Paul  first  planted  the  doctrine  of  Christ  in  Ephesus.  By  Aquila 
and  Priscilla  still  less  were  they  baptised ;  for  they  were  so  well 
and  clearly  instructed  in  the  gospel  that  they  taught  Apollos 
more  fundamentally.  Or,  if  we  should  maintain  that  the  twelve 
had  been  baptised  by  Aquila  and  Priscilla,  then  the  disciples  of 
Christ  baptised  pre^dously  to  instruction,  in  which  case  we  had 
in  respect  of  baptism  completely  got  the  better  of  you.  It  is 
therefore  clear  and  manifest  that  these  men  had  not  been  baptised 
by  Apollos,  and  also  that  hcvptism  here  signifies  doctinne.  If  it 
is  evident,  then,  that  Apollos  did  not  baptise  with  water,  and 
that  Paul  does  not  speak  here  of  baptism  by  water,  why  do  ye 
then,  0 !  ye  ignorant  unintelligent  teachers  of  the  people,  and 
rioters,  rebaptise  under  the  colour  of  this  passage  in  the  Acts 
(chap.  xix.  1  and  following),  rebaptism  being,  in  verity,  contrary 
to  Christ.  Christ  says,  John  xiii.  15:  "I  have  given  you  an 
example  that  ye  should  do  as  I  have  done  to  you."  And  as  He 
has  been  an  example  to  us  in  everything,  that  we  should  shape 
ovir  actions  according  to  his  pattern,  neither  dare  we  administer 
baptism  otherwise  than  he  has  had  it  administered  on  himself. 
Christ,  however,  was  baptised  with  the  baptism  of  John,  as  also 
the  apostles,  and  neither  He  nor  the  apostles  were  again  baptised. 
Nor  may  we  let  ourselves  be  again  baptised. 

Anabaptists:  We  baptise  ourselves  now,  because  we  do  not 
know  whether  we  have  been  baj)tised  or  not. 

Zwingli :  Wliat  are  your  names  ? 

The  Anabaptists  give  their  names. 

Zwingli:  Know  you  not  that  Christians  receive  their  names 
at  baptism?  Have  you  then  no  god-fathers?  And  have  they 
not  told  you  that  you  were  baptised? 

Anabaptists:  Yes;  but  we  do  not  know  whether  we  have  been 
baptised  or  not;  for  granting  that,  as  infants,  we  have  been 
baptised,  this  took  place  at  such  an  age  that  we  could  not  know 
it,  and  therefore  we  must  receive  baptism  now  that  we  may  be 
assured  of  it. 

Zwingli :  Do  ye  know,  then,  that  ye  have  been  born  of  your 
own  mothers  ? 

Anabaptists :  Yes. 


PUBLIC  DISPUTATION  WITH  THE  ANABAPTISTS.  269 

Zwingli:  You  could  know  this  of  your  own  knowledge  just  as 
little  as  that  you  were  baptised. 

Anabaptists:  But  although  we  have  been  baptised,  it  is  the 
Pope's  baptism  we  have  received,  which  has  been  defaced  and 
falsified  by  superstitious  additions,  so  that  we  have  not  been 
rightly  baptised.  Therefore  we  must,  first  of  all,  receive  the  right 
baptism. 

Zwingli :  The  true  formula  of  baptism  is  :  "/  baptise  thee  in 
the  name  of  the  Father,  of  the  So7i,  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost." 
Therein  all  teachers  of  the  church  agree,  and  herein  we  are  at  one 
with  the  papists.  You  also  admit  this  to  be  the  right  form  of 
baptism.  Now  tell  me,  if  baptism,  performed  with  these  words, 
coidd  be  falsified  by  anything  antecedent,  nay,  by  perverse, 
superstitious  prayers,  and  foolish  mummery.  If  you  reply.  Yes, 
then,  in  your  opinion,  the  devil  is  stronger  than  God,  if  God's 
work  can  be  anniliilated  by  the  devil's  power.  If  you  say,  No, 
then  the  baptism  of  Christ  has  not  been  falsified,  and  we  have 
gained  the  day  already ;  for  you  and  we  have  been,  at  a  former 
time,  rightly  baptised.  Why,  then,  do  ye  harrass  and  disquiet 
pious  Christians  with  such  groundless  and  frivolous  assertions  ? 
"We  have  been  all  Itaptised,  and,  in  tnith,  rightly  liaptised  ;  for 
eveiy  woman  can  baptise  herself.  \Miat  is  of  highest  importance 
is,  that  we  become  new  men,  that  we  pass  under  the  cross  of 
Christ,  that  we  die,  and  be  dead  daily  at  onct' ;  for  the  flesh  con- 
tinues to  send  forth  its  suckers,  which  must  be  without  inter- 
mission pruned  and  cut  oft'.  This  all  takes  place  through  the 
strength  of  God,  which  He,  through  His  gi'ace,  causes  to  dwell 
and  work  in  us,  but  not  through  rebaptism  or  anabaj)tism,  which 
has  not  the  slightest  foundation  in  the  doctrine  of  Christ,  but  is 
quite  contradicted  by  it.  Baptism  is  an  image  of  the  death  of 
Christ,  Rom.  vi.  4.  Now  Christ  has  died  once,  and  cannot  die 
any  more.  As  now,  they  sin  gi'ievously  against  God  who  pre- 
tend they  offtT  Christ  daily;  because  once  offered  on  the  cross, 
He  took  away  thereby  the  sins  of  the  whole  world  to  all  eternity ; 
they  also  sin  grievously  who  cincify  Him  again  with  their  second 
baptism,  and  despise  the  significance  of  his  resurrection.  He 
has  risen  only  once,  we  also  shoidd  be  but  once  raised  from  bap- 
tism, and  from  thence  our  lives  long  live  no  more  to  siiL 

Anabaptists:  Children  are  nowhere  in  Scripture  commanded 


270  PUBLIC  DISPUTATION  WITH  THE  ANABAPTISTS. 

to  be  baptised,  nor  is  it  anywhere  said  that  Christ  or  the  apostk'S 
baptised  children.  Infant  baptism,  then,  not  being  founded  or 
commanded  in  the  Word  of  God,  but  an  invention  of  the  Pope, 
or  the  devil,  it  ought  to  be  done  away  with  as  an  abuse,  as  other 
papistical  abuses  have  been  done  away  with. 

Ziuingli :  But  it  is  nowhere  commanded  in  Scripture  that  the 
inhabitants  of  Calcutta  should  be  baptised,  nor  do  we  find  that 
Clirist  or  the  apostles  baptised  any  one  in  Calcutta,  and  yet  we 
baptise  now  in  Calcutta,  and  do  rightly  therein ;  for  they  also,  as 
all  people,  are  to  be  made  disciples  of  Christ,  we  baptising  them, 
and  teaching  them  to  observe  all  things  whatsoever  Christ  has 
commanded.  Farther,  it  is  nowhere  said  in  Scripture  that  women 
were  present  at  the  supper  of  Christ ;  nor  have  we  an  express 
command  of  Christ  to  admit  them  to  the  Eucharist,  and  yet  we 
allow  women  to  partake  of  the  Lord's  Supper,  and  are  right  in  so 
doing  ;  for  it  would  be  quite  contrary  to  the  will  of  God  to  exclude 
them.  Therefore  let  no  man  thus  judge :  Christ  has  not  baptised 
children,  therefore  we  ought  not  to  baptise  them.  In  respect  of 
outward  things,  many  things  are  not  expressly  mentioned  in  the 
Word  of  God  which  yet  with  God  we  do. 

Anabaptists:  You  have  ever  defended  yourself  against  the 
Papists  with  the  asseveration,  what  is  not  founded  in  God's 
Word  holds  not,  and  now  you  say :  "  There  are  many  things  not 
in  the  Word  of  God,  which  yet  with  God  may  be  done."  Wliere 
is  now  that  word  of  power  with  which  you  vanquished  the  Suf- 
fragan Bishop  Faber  and  all  the  monks?  "  In  vain  they  do  wor- 
ship me,  teaching  for  doctrines  the  commandments  of  men." 
(Matt.  XV.  9  ;  Isaiah  xxix.  ]  3.) 

Zwingli :  What  I  have  ever  said,  that  I  shall  say  till  death, 
nor  will  you  ever  discover  that  I  have  said  aught  but  one  and 
the  same  thing.  Therefore  weigh  better  the  sense  of  my  words. 
They  have  no  reference  to  what  you  lay  to  my  charge,  for  I 
.speak  of  outward  elementary  things,  for  which  we  have  no 
express  command,  but  which  we  yet  observe  with  God.  Thus, 
in  respect  to  the  Supper  or  Eucharist,  here  we  have  a  distinct 
institution,  and  a  clear  intimation  that  it  is  a  commemoration,. 
and  nothing  more  can  be  made  of  it,  although  the  whole  host  of 
Papists  were  to  lose  their  senses  upon  it.  Its  coonmemorative- 
ness,  however,  is  not  such  an  elementary,  i.e.,  such  an  outward 


PUBLIC  DISPUTATION  WITH  THE  ANABAPTISTS.  271 

thing  that  it  were  uucertaiu,  and  that  it  might  be  given  uut  to 
be  a  sacrifice ;  lor  it  has  its  distinct  definition,  and  the  ground- 
idea  of  the  whole  Epistle  to  tlie  Hebrews  concerns  it.  The  ele- 
ment, however,  or  outward  thing,  that  women  likewise  should 
celebrate  the  commemoration,  is  nowhere  to  be  found  in  any  pas- 
sage of  Scripture.  Yet  we  do  rightly  when  we  admit  them  to 
the  Supper.  In  the  name  of  God  hold  the  same  language  in 
regard  to  infant  baptism.  If  God  has  commanded  to  baptise, 
don't  say,  "  But  not  the  childi'en."  ^\liy  do  ye  make  a  diiference 
in  mankind?  Are  children  men  too,  or  are  they  not?  If  they 
are  mankind,  then  you  must  grant  they  are  to  be  baptised,  seeing 
we  can  make  no  difference  in  mankind  between  old  and  young, 
man  and  woman. 

Anabaptist:  The  man  that  is  to  be  baptised  must  first  be 
instructed,  and  have  faith;  an  infant  cannot  have  it,  and  conse- 
quently may  not  be  baptised. 

Zwingli :  Prove  me  this  by  a  clear  passage  of  Scripture. 

Anabaptist:  In  Matt,  xxviii.  19  it  is  written:  "Teach  all 
nations,  baptising  them,"  &c.  Here  Christ  himself  commands 
us  first  to  teach,  and  then  baptise. 

Zwingli:  I  have  already  proved  that  the  Greek  text  does  not 
admit  of  such  a  sense  being  put  u])on  this  passage,  and  that  it 
has  not  the  meaning  which  ye  would  extract  from  it;  for  it  is  to 
this  effect:  Make  all  nations  my  disciples,  baptising  them,  and 
teaching  them  to  obsei've  all  things  whatsoever  I  have  com- 
manded you.  Since  ye  will  again  wrest  the  sense  of  tlu;  pas- 
sage, it  is  clear  that  you  tire  only  waging  an  empty  war  of  words, 
which  Paul  forbids.  (1  Tim.  vi.  5.)  To  the  partaking  of  the 
Supper  or  commemorati(m  of  Christ's  death,  unconditional  faith 
is  to  be  demanded,  in  accordance  with  1  Cor.  xi.  28 :  "  But  let  a 
man  examine  himself,  and  so  let  him  eat  of  that  bread,  and  drink 
of  that  cu])."  On  the  other  hand,  it  is  nowhere  .'^aid  that  one  is 
to  examine  himself  before  baptism.  Without  iloubt  the  divine 
providence  of  God  has  not  demanded  examination  before  baptism, 
inasnnich  a.s  it  knew  that  believing  Christians  would  furnish 
their  childn'n  Mitli  the  sign  of  cliildren  of  God,  as  this  was  done 
under  the  Old  Testament  by  circmncision. 

Anabaptist:  What  (Jod  wills  that  we  should  do,  lie  ha.s 
expressly  connnanded  in  His  Word.     He  has,  liowever,  nowhere 


272  PUBLIC  DISPUTATION  WITH  THE  ANABAPTISTS. 

commanded  infant  baptism,  and  Christ  and  His  apostles  have 
never  practised  it;  it  is  therefore  an  invention  of  men,  or  of 
Satan,  and  thereby  we  abide.  If  you  will  establish  the  legiti- 
macy of  infant  baptism,  do  it  by  the  Word  of  God ;  for  we  desire 
God's  Word,  and  not  man's  word. 

Zwingli :  If  in  regard  to  outward  things  of  eternal  observance, 
about  which  there  is  no  clear  and  distinct  announcement  in  the 
New  Testament,  a  dispute  arises,  we  are  in  this  case  to  turn  from 
the  doctrine  of  Christ  to  Moses  and  the  prophets,  that  he  may 
not  blame  us  like  the  Sadducees :  "  Ye  do  err,  not  knowing  the 
Scriptures,"  Matt.  xxii.  29,  and  that  we  may  learn  from  the  Word 
of  God  what  ought  to  be  done.  Thus,  for  example,  marriage  is 
an  outward  rite  of  eternal  observance;  yet  the  New  Testament 
contains  no  prescription  as  to  how  it  is  to  be  performed,  although 
we  find  such  in  Numbers  xviii.  It  is  a  like  case  with  infant 
baptism.  We  admit  that  in  the  New  Testament  there  is  no 
express  command  that  children  are  to  be  baptised,  much  less, 
however,  is  there  any  prohibition  of  it.  When  God  made  the 
covenant  with  Abraham,  He  gave  him  circumcision  as  a  covenant- 
sign  for  the  sake  of  his  posterity,  as  it  is  said  in  Genesis  xvii.  7, 
&c. :  "  And  I  will  establish  my  covenant  between  me  and  thee, 
and  thy  seed  after  thee,"  &c.,  &c.  Circumcision  was  performed 
on  the  eighth  day  after  birth.  Circumcision,  however,  was  an 
obligatory  sign,  and  Abraham  and  his  whole  posterity  were  to 
circumcise  their  children,  for  the  reason  that  they  might  have  the 
God  of  Israel  pointed  out  to  them  as  Him  in  whom  Abraham 
believed,  as  God  afterwards  commanded  by  Moses,  Deut.  xxxi. 
11,  12,  thou  shalt  read  this  law  before  all  Israel  in  their  hearing: 
"  Gather  the  people  together,  men,  and  women,  and  children,  and 
thy  stranger  that  is  within  thy  gates,  that  they  may  hear,  and 
that  they  may  learn,  and  fear  the  Lord  your  God,  and  observe 
to  do  all  the  words  of  this  law."  Thus  the  covenant  commenced 
with  the  outward  sign  which  God  really  commanded,  because 
He  knew  well  what  would  follow  if  it  were  neglected.  What 
God,  however,  has  spoken  and  commanded,  has  al'ways  a  good 
object,  although  we  may  not  know  the  exact  reason  for  which  He 
commanded  it.  In  the  present  case,  let  us  observe  well  from 
the  diligence  with  which  God  inculcated  the  command,  how  he 
provided  that  the  children,  even  from  the  cradle,  should  be  led 


I'UBTJC  DISPUTATION  WITH  THE  ANABAPTISTS.  273 

to  himself,  upon  wiiom  Abraham  trusted,  and  to  mIioui  tin-  cliild 
wa.s  obligated  by  the  external  sign  that  it  might  not,  through  the 
carelessne.ss  or  unbelief  of  its  parents,  or  l)y  the  instrumentality 
of  heathenish  people,  be  led  away  to  idolatry  ere  it  came  to  be 
properly  instructed.  Now,  in  the  New  Testament  economy, 
baptism  has  entered  into  the  place  of  circumcision,  M'ith  the 
difference  that  circumcision  obligates  to  God  under  the  covenant 
of  the  law  ;  baptism,  indeed,  likewise  to  God,  but  through  Christ 
to  (Joil  under  the  covenant  of  grace.  Here  1  refer  to  what  Paid 
says  of  circumcision  and  of  baptism,  Colos.  ii.  10-12,  where  he 
calls  circumcision  "  a  burial  m  baptism."  The  sense  of  these 
words  is:  Ye  were,  then,  when  ye  put  olf  your  sins,  circumcised 
with  the  circumcision  which  is  without  hands ;  for  ye  were  not 
less  than  they  visibly  circumcised,  luit  with  the  circumcision  of 
Christ,  which,  through  the  washing  with  water,  signifies  the  same 
as  circumcision.  Therefore,  ye  are  l)uried  with  Christ  in  baptism 
that  ye  may  die  unto  sin.  Now  "  the  dying  unto  sin,"  and  "  the 
circumcision  from  sin,"  is  one  and  the  self-same  thing,  which, 
in  the  one  case,  is  signified  by  outward  circumcision;  and  in  the 
other,  by  baptism,  and  therefore  he  calls  baptism  our  circum- 
cision. Hence  it  is  evident  that  baptism  in  the  New  Testament 
has  come  into  the  place  of  circumcision  in  the  Old.  Again,  as  to 
what  reganls  the  origin  of  infant  baptism,  there  is  in  my  mind  no 
doubt  that  it  was  begun,  as  Augustine*  says,  at  the  time  of  Christ 
and  tlic  apostles,  although  no  mention  is  made  of  it  in  express 
words.      For  in  regard  also  to  the  commemorative  Supper  of 

*  Augustine,  the  famous  Father,  and  Bi.shop  of  Ilipjto,  (honi  a.d.  354,  <licrl 
A.D.  430,)  says  in  his  hook  afrainst  the  Donatists,  (an  anahaj)tistical  sect  of  his 
time.)  '"as  in  tlie  murderer  (tlie  thief  on  the  cross)  salvation  was  accomplished, 
although  haptism  could  not  he  ap])licd,  (yet  spiritually,  it  was  not  awanting 
through  faith,)  so  al.so  hy  haptism  salvation  is  effected."  Such  is  the  helief  of 
tlie  church  general  in  reference  to  infants  who  are  haptised,  who  truly  have  not 
yet  helicved  with  the  heart  unto  righteousness,  nor  confessed  witii  the  mouth 
unto  salvation,  which  tlie  murderer  could  do;  on  the  contrary,  when  the  sacra- 
ment is  j>erfonned  upon  them,  they  oppose  the  words  spoken  in  haptism  hy 
tlieir  crie.s,  and  yet  no  Christian  will  a.sscrt  they  are  haptised  in  vain.  If,  how- 
ever, a  divine  recommendation  of  this  ordinance  he  demanded,  (although  that 
which  the  universal  church  helieves,  not  appointed  hy  any  Council,  hut  every- 
where, and  at  all  times  ohserved,  may  justly  he  regarded  as  having  heen 
ordained  hy  the  apostles,)  we  may  truly  learn  what  the  haptism  of  infants 
signifies  by  looking  to  the  circumcision  of  the  former  j»eopic. 

S 


27-i  PUBLIC  DISPUTATION  WITH  THE  ANABAPTISTS. 

Christ,  there  is  nothing  said  by  any  evangelist  or  apostle  as  to 
how  it  was  ordered  according  to  the  institution  of  Christ,  except 
by  Paul,  and  by  him  only  in  1  Cor.  x.  16,  and  following;  and 
xi.  20,  and  following.  For  although  in  Acts  ii.  42,  we  find  that 
bread  was  broken,  we  do  not  find  in  what  manner  or  order  it  was 
done.  If  the  Corinthians  had  not  abused  the  Supper,  we  should 
have  had  no  place  in  Scripture  from  whence  we  could  learn  how 
it  had  been  kept.  Now  I  say  the  same  with  respect  to  infant 
baptism.  Although  it  is  not  described  or  stated  in  express  words, 
yet  it  is  from  various  intimations  in  the  AVord  of  God  to  be  con- 
cluded that  they  also,  with  the  general  multitude  who  were 
baptised,  received  baptism ;  surely  the  women  and  children  were 
fed  with  the  rest,  yet  they  are  not  counted,  Matt.  xiv.  21.  We 
shall  now  quote  some  proofs  for  our  view.  In  Matt.  xix.  13-15, 
Luke  xviii.  15-17,  there  is  the  narrative  which  Mark  x.  13-16 
gives  in  the  following  words :  "  And  they  brought  young  children 
to  him,  that  he  should  touch  them :  and  his  disciples  rebulvcd 
those  that  brought  them.  But  when  Jesus  saw  it,  he  was  much 
displeased,  and  said  unto  them,  Suffer  the  little  children  to  come 
unto  me,  and  forbid  them  not;  for  of  such  is  the  kingdom  of 
God.  Verily  I  say  unto  you,  Wliosoever  shall  not  receive  the 
kingdom  of  God  as  a  little  child,  he  shall  not  enter  therein.  And 
he  took  them  up  in  his  arms,  put  his  hands  upon  them,  and 
blessed  them." 

In  the  first  place,  they  are  blamed  who  forbad  little  children 
to  be  brought  to  Christ ;  are  those  not  to  be  blamed  who  forbid 
them  to  be  baptised?  For  if  theirs  is  the  kingdom  of  God,  why 
should  the  sign  of  the  people  of  God  be  denied  them?  As  Peter 
said,  (Acts  x.  47,)  when  he  saw  that  Cornelius  with  his  whole 
family  had  received  the  Holy  Ghost :  "  Can  any  man  forbid  water 
that  these  should  not  be  baptised,  which  have  received  the  Holy 
Ghost  as  well  as  we?"  so  must  I  likewise  say  in  regard  to  in- 
fants :  "Who  will  forbid  them  water  when  we  see  that  they  are 
God's  as  well  as  we  who  believe? 

Anabaptist:  Is  it,  however,  said  that  Christ  baptised  the 
children,  when  it  is  related  that  He  took  them  up  in  His  arms 
and  blessed  them? 

Zwingli:  Who  says  it?  I  quoted  the  passage  for  two  reasons; 
one  you  have  heard;  Are  they  God's?  who  will  forbid  them  water, 


PUBLIC  DISPUTATION  WITH  THE  ANABAPTISTS.  275 

the  sign  of  God's  people?  The  other  is,  that  1  may  sliow  by  these 
words  what  care  and  zeal  the  parents  manifested  in  thus  bring- 
ing their  children  to  Christ ;  and  seeing  this,  we  can,  with  no 
s(nul>lance  of  truth  suppose,  that  they  had  not  their  children 
baptised,  although  this  be  not  stated  in  express  words.  The  Jews 
looked  more  to  outward  things  than  any  other  people,  for  wliich 
tliey  were  reproached  by  Christ,  John  iv.  48 ;  Luke  xi.  29 ;  and 
by  Paul,  1  Cor.  i.  22.  Thus  it  may,  with  all  safety,  be  assumed 
that  they  let  themselves  as  well  as  their  children  be  designated  ' 
by  baptism.  When,  therefore,  of  a  whole  company  or  of  a  whole 
household  it  is  related  that  they  had  been  baptised,  it  may  be 
iussumed  with  all  probability  that  there  were  children  also  among 
them,  and  that  these  also  were  baptised. 

Anabaptist:  In  Acts  ii.  37,  38,  it  is  written:  "Now  when  they 
heai-d  this,  they  were  pricked  in  their  heart,  and  said  unto  l*eter 
and  to  the  rest  of  the  apostles,  Men  and  brethren,  what  shall  we 
do?  Then  Peter  said  unto  them,  liepent,  and  be  liaptised  every 
one  of  you  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  for  the  remission  of  sins, 
and  ye  shall  receive  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost."  Can  these  have 
b(;en  children  whom  Peter's  sermon  so  pricked  in  heart?  Have 
infants  asked,  "AVhat  shall  we  do?"  Has  Peter  recommended 
children  to  repent? 

Zwingli :  And  if  ye  went  to  unbelievers  at  this  day — but  that 
you  do  not  do,  although  you  all  say  that  you  are  sent  by  (iod  to 
preach,  but  you  go  only  to  those  regions  where  the  gospel  has 
been  already  planted,  and  tliere  you  destroy  by  your  anal)aptism 
wliat  wa.s  formerly  built  up  in  peace — if,  however,  you  went,  you 
would  without  doubt  baptise  only  those  who  understood  your 
preaching  and  received  it.  ^^^len  these  believers,  however,  had 
been  well  and  rightly  insti'ucted  in  the  nature  of  th(>  ordinance, 
they  would,  witliout  doubt,  attach  their  children  to  Christ  by  the 
sign  even  from  the  cradle. 

Tlie  commencement  of  bajitism  in  the  times  of  the  apostles  is 
describt'd,  jus  in  all  histories,  without  any  ]»articular  mention  of 
cliildivn.  although  they  may  have  been  present,  as  we  have  seen 
in  the  narrative  of  the  miraculous  feeding  they  really  were.  Nor 
is  it  incon.sistent  with  the  sen.se  in  Acts  ii.  41  that  children  were 
Vmptised,  for  all  tliat  is  said,  "  they  were  pricked  in  their  heart," 
"  what  shall  we  do,"  and  "  repent,"  is  quite  applicable  to  a  com- 


270  PUBLIC  DISPUTATION  WITH  THE  ANABAPTISTS. 

pany  in  which  tliere  was  a  mixture  of  women  and  children, 
although  the  men  only  who  understood  the  word,  and  whom  it 
in  the  first  instance  concerned,  spoke,  the  women  and  children 
not  speaking.  For  the  children,  although  they  did  not  believe, 
belonged  not  less  to  the  number  of  believers  than  the  fathers 
themselves ;  since  among  the  Jews,  the  family  was  counted  to  the 
father  by  every  census  which  God  commanded.  Nor  in  con- 
sequence of  the  circumcision  in  which  they  formerly  walked 
could  they  have  any  other  view  than  that  they  should  now  bap- 
tise their  children  as  they  formerly  circumcised  them.  Paul  gives 
us  a  farther  proof  in  favour  of  this  view,  in  1  Cor.  x.  1,  where  he 
says,  "  All  our  fathers  were  under  the  cloud,"  plainly  understand- 
ing by  "  fathers,"  all  the  people  with  the  women  and  children. 
They  also  all  "  passed  through  the  sea,"  "  were  all  baptised  to 
Moses  in  the  cloud  and  in  the  sea,"  although  the  women  and 
children  are  not  particularly  mentioned.  The  sense  of  this  pas- 
sage is,  however,  the  following :  Paul  would  exhort  the  Christians 
at  Corinth  not  to  place  their  dependence  on  outward  things,  and 
not  to  suppose  that  by  these,  and  without  a  change  of  their  sinful 
lives,  they  could  be  saved.  Accordingly  he  says :  "  Ye  might  think, 
liecause  ye  have  been  baptised,  and  have  partaken  of  the  sym- 
bolical food  of  the  Eucharist,  that  you  were  saved.  It  is  not  so. 
For  our  fathers  had  the  sign  even  as  well  as  we ;  and  as  we  are 
placed  under  the  sacraments  of  baptism  and  the  Lord's  Supper, 
so  they  also  were  under  the  cloud,  and  passed  through  the  sea, 
they  were  nourished  from  heaven  above,  as  our  souls  also  receive 
comfort  through  Christ,  in  consequence  of  which  consolation  ye 
celelirate  the  holy  feast  of  commemoration ;  yet,  notwithstand- 
ing all  this,  they  were  punished  by  God  for  their  sins.  And 
although  these  miracles  were  but  oliligating  signs  of  a  prefigura- 
tive  character,  it  will  fare  with  us  as  with  them  if  we  seek  our 
salvation  through  any  external  signs;  for  just  the  more  did  they 
trust  on  themselves  from  thinking  of  all  the  wonders  which  God 
had  wrought  in  their  behalf"  I  have  cited  this  passage  here, 
however,  for  the  reason  that  the  image  of  the  cloud  and  of  the 
sea  signifies  baptism,  as  Peter  himself  tells  us.  Now,  this  sub- 
jection to  these  signs  took  place  before  the  children  of  Israel 
were  brought  under  Moses,  that  is,  were  brought  under  the  law, 
from  which  it  may  be  readily  seen  that  Paul  looked  upon  bap- 


PUBLIC  DISPUTATION  WITH  THE  ANABAPTISTS.  277 

tism  as  a  common  obligative  sign  fur  the  whole  people  of  God, 
for  believers  and  their  children.  For  as,  in  the  one  case,  young 
and  old  together  passed  through  the  sea,  and  were  under  the 
cloud;  so  also  in  baptism,  which  was  symbolised  by  the  cloud 
and  sea,  young  and  old  witliout  dijff'erence  are  obligated  and 
bound.  We  see  thus  from  the  custom  of  the  children  of  Israel, 
and  from  the  testimony  of  Paul,  that  infant-baptism  must  hav(^ 
been  usual  at  the  times  of  the  apostles,  which  also  the  histories 
themselves  prove,  relating  how  the  apostles  baptised  whole  house- 
holds. In  1  Cor.  i.  IG,  Paul  says:  "And  I  baptised  also  the 
household  of  Stephanas,"  and  Acts  xvi.  1  o,  say :  "  and  when  she, 
(Lydia,)  was  baptised,  and  her  household,"  in  which  cases,  it  may, 
with  safety,  be  assumed,  that  there  were  children  in  the  house- 
hold. It  is  in  the  same  IGth  chapter  that  mention  is  made  of 
the  jailor.  He  "said,  Sirs,  what  must  I  do  to  be  saved?  And 
they  said,  P)elieve  on  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  thou  shalt  be 
saved,  and  thy  house.  And  he  took  them  the  same  hour  of  the 
night,  and  washed  their  stripes  ;  and  was  baptised,  he  and  all  his, 
straightway.  And  when  he  had  brought  them  into  his  house, 
he  set  meat  before  them,  and  rejoiced,  believing  in  God,  with  all 
his  house."  (\q\\  SO-S-i.)  Here  there  were,  doubtless,  children 
under  the  "  all  his,"  who  would  especially  rejoice  that  their 
father  had  become  a  believer,  and  that  he  rejoiced  in  his  faith. 
Thus  the  young  especially  rejoiced  at  the  entrance  of  Christ  into 
Jerusalem,  of  whom  lie  said,  as  the  rulers,  priests,  and  Scribes, 
called  on  Him  to  command  them  silence,  "  out  of  the  mouths  of 
babes  and  sucklings  thou  hast  perfected  praise."  (Ps.  viii.  2.)  It 
is  thus  with  good  ground  to  be  supposi'd  that  all  Ix'licvers  directed 
their  next  care  to  their  children,  and  bound  them  over  to  that 
same  God,  to  the  knowknlge  of  whom  they  themselves  had  come. 
Therefore  we  do  well  and  act  rightly  in  binding  our  children  to 
God  and  the  Redeemer  from  their  earliest  years,  according  to  the 
example  of  the  old  covenant  and  of  the  ajiostles,  and  in  bringing 
them  to  him  according  to  his  invitation,  the  more  especially  as 
much  that  is  good  tiows  from  infant^baptism.  By  this  we  may 
readily  recognise  tlie  Divine  wisdom  in  the  vouchsafement  of  this 
outward  sign.  In  the  first  place,  it  is  beneficial  for  us  to  be  early 
instructed  in  Christian  doctrine  and  discii»line.  For  this  end  th(* 
pastor  ought,  at  certain  seasons,  to  /collect  the  youth,  and  faith- 


278  PUBLIC  DISPUTATION  WITH  THE  ANABAPTISTS. 

fully  instruct  them  in  the  elements  of  the  doctrine  of  salvation. 
If  this  be  not  done,  each  may  propagate  his  own  errors  among 
his  children.  This  is  of  especial  importance  at  the  present  time, 
when  you,  Anabaptists,  manifest  such  reserve  to  all  who  con- 
tradict you  that  you  forbid  your  children  to  go  to  the  legally 
appointed  evangelists  or  bishops  to  hear  sermon.  Wliat  will 
become  of  us  if  more  sects  arise  ?  The  other  good  effect  of  infant- 
baptism  is,  that  the  youth  are  necessitated  from  their  first  years 
to  live  as  Christians,  while  their  parents  are  placed  under  an  obli- 
gation to  instruct  them  in  Christianity.  Let  it  be  supposed  that 
children  were  not  baptised  before  the  sixteenth  or  eighteenth 
year,  or  even  later,  the  consequence  would  be,  that  on  your  say- 
ing to  your  neighbour,  "  Why  do  you  bring  up  your  children  in  a 
manner  so  contrary  to  Christianity?"  He  would  reply,  "I  don't 
know  whether  tliey  will  be  Christians  or  not;"  and  the  child 
itself  could  say,  which  in  the  petulancy  of  the  young  spirit  would 
certainly  occur  often:  "What  have  I  to  do  with  your  warning?  I 
can  become  a  Christian  or  not."  The  third  good  effect  of  infant- 
baptism  is,  that  it  corrects  remissness  in  religious  education. 
Each  would  excuse  his  negligence  in  instructing  his  children  from 
their  earliest  years,  with  the  apology,  "  it  is  still  soon  enough." 
Nor  would  all  men  learn  with  the  same  ardour  to  know  God,  and 
to  call  upon  Him  as  we  even  now  find.  For  this  reason  we  take 
god-fathers  or  sponsors,  that,  on  the  decease  of  father  and  mother, 
they  may  instruct  the  children  in  the  doctrines  of  salvation. 

These  and  other  arguments  Zwingli  brought  forward  during 
the  three  days'  Disputation  on  infant-baptism.  In  the  estima- 
tion of  all  competent  to  judge  they  had  the  more  weight,  because 
the  Anabaptists  were  unable  to  advance  a  single  argument  which 
would  stand  the  test,  in  proof  of  their  assertions.  Instead  of 
justifying,  by  Scripture,  the  innovation  they  moved  for,  they 
were  obliged  to  confine  themselves  to  certain  subtle  objections, 
which  Zwingli  always  rebutted  with  a  calm  deliberation. 

For  example,  an  Anabaptist  said :  I  "would  make  it  manifest, 
from  tlieWord  of  God,  that  infant-baptism  is  an  invention  of  Satan, 
but  no  man  can  understand  me,  except  one  who  is  without  sin. 

Zwingli:  Do  you  understand  it  yourself? 

Anabaptist :  Yes,  thank  God. 

Zwingli:  Then  you  are  without  sin? 


PUBLIC  DISPUTATION  WITH  THE  ANABAPTISTS.  279 

A  nahaptist :  Would  to  God  that  all  men  acknowledged  their 
sins  as  I  do.  With  this  exclamation  he  withdrew,  and  had  no 
desire  to  take  any  farther  part  in  the  Disputation? 

Another  said :  Infant-baptism  is  an  invention  of  the  Pope  ; 
Nicolas  II.  has  first  introduced  it. 

Zwingli  :  Whence  do  you  know  this  ? 

Anabaptist:  I  have  read  it  in  the  Pope's  book  myself.* 

Zwingli:  Do  you  understand  Latin,  then? 

A  nahaptist :  No. 

Zwingli :  How  can  you  say  you  have  read  it  in  the  Pope's  book, 
when  you  are  ignorant  of  Latin,  and  this  book  has  not  been 
translated  into  German'?  You,  Anabaptists,  maintain  you  do  not 
lie,  is  this  not  lying?  ^Moreover,  Pope  Nicolas  II.  lived  aboiitthe 
year  lOoo,  while  we  know,  from  the  writings  of  Augustine,  who 
lived  about  the  year  4()(),  after  Christ,  that,  at  his  time,  infant- 
baptism  was  generally  customary,  and  that,  in  his  opinion,  it  had 
been  administered  by  the  apostles.  How,  then,  could  Pope 
Nicolas  II.  first  have  introduced  it? 

Another  came  forward,  and  placing  himself  before  Zwingli, 
and  employing  all  the  gestiu'es  of  an  exorcist,  said,  Zwingli, 
Zwingli,  I  conjure  thee,  by  the  living  God,  speak  the  truth. 

With  perft'ct  composure  Zwingli  answered,  I  shall,  and  you 
shall  hear  it.  You  are  a  stupid,  riotous  boor,  as  silly  a  one  as 
our  loi'ds  have  in  the  whole  land.  Amid  universal  laughter,  the 
fanatic,  who  had  l)oasted  he  would  overcome  Zwingli  with  a 
single  word,  slunk  back  into  the  crowd  speechless. 

Neither  the  subtleties  of  the  learned  Anabaptists,  nor  the 
quaint  sallies  of  the  narrow-mindtid  fanatics  among  them  could 
throw  the  lieformer  for  a  moment  off  his  guard ;  and,  while  he 
repUed  to  the  one  with  well-grounded  solid  learning,  he  worsted 
the  other  with  his  shrewd  and  pointed  remarks,  often  with  sar- 
castic wit.  Zwingli  had  gained  a  complete  victor^',  so  that  the 
Council,  after  the  Disputation  was  over,  published  the  following 
declarations :  "  The  Anabaptists  and  their  followei"s  having,  for 
tlirec  successive  days,  disputed  in  our  Town-hall,  and  in  the 
Great  Minster,  in  our  presence,  and  in  the  presence  of  the  whole 

*  Under  this  name  was  understood  the  so-called  "  Deratalia,"  i.c,  n  rolicption 
of  papal  laws  and  rescripts.  These  were  vulgarly  railed,  "The  Book  of  the 
I'ope." 


280  PUBLIC  DISPUTATION  WITH  THE  ANABAPTISTS. 

community,  and  each  and  every  Baptist,  without  any  hindernient, 
having  spoken  his  quarrel,  dispute,  and  opinion,  it  hath,  from 
first  to  hist,  shewn  itself  by  the  true  divine  Scriptures,  maintained 
by  the  strongest  arguments,  that  Magister  Huldreich  Zwingli, 
with  his  followers,  has  completely  overcome  the  Anabaptists, 
demonstrated  the  invalidity  of  Anabaptism,  and,  on  the  other 
hand,  established  tlie  validity  of  infant-baptism.  It  hath  also 
been  rendered  very  evident  by  this  Disputation  that  the  ring- 
leaders and  sectarists  of  Anabaptism  have  set  up  their  doctrines 
out  of  an  insolent,  intemperate,  and  arrogant  mind,  and  in  no  good 
spirit,  thinking  to  draw  to  them  a  particular  sect  and  faction, 
contrary  to  the  command  of  God,  to  the  despite  of  us,  the  temporal 
magistracy,  to  the  implanting  of  all  disobedience,  and  to  the 
destruction  of  Christian  charity  between  man  and  man ;  for  they 
esteem  themselves  to  be  better  than  other  men,  and  without  sin, 
as  their  words  and  manners,  works  and  gestures,  clearly  shew; 
considering  which,  we  hereby  command  and  enjoin  all  persons, 
man  or  woman,  young  man  or  maiden,  to  abstain  from  such 
Anabaptism,  and  we  authorise  infants  only  to  be  baptised.  Given 
on  St.  Andrew's  Day,  1525." 

Manz,  Grebel,  Blaurock,  and  the  other  chief  men  of  the  sect, 
were  called  before  the  Council,  and  seriously  exhorted  to  acknow- 
ledge their  errors.  But  in  vain ;  they  obstinately  persisted  in 
maintaining  them,  nay,  they  found  means  to  issue  an  address 
from  prison,  in  which  the  Council  now  enclosed  them,  stimulat- 
ing their  followers  to  a  new  resistance  to  the  above  decree  of  the 
Council. 

4.  The  Kiotous  peoceedings  of  the  Anabaptists  in  the  Can- 
ton OF  Zurich. — Their  Course  and  End. 

These  repeated  instigations  to  opposition  against  the  civil 
authority  were  so  much  the  more  deserving  of  punishment, 
because,  in  the  country  district  of  Zurich,  as  well  as  in  other 
parts  of  Switzerland,  the  flames  of  civil  insurrection,  which  had 
already  raged  destructively  in  the  so-called  "peasant -war"  in 
Germany,  and  had  only  been  quenched  in  streams  of  blood, 
threatened  to  fasten  on  the  doctrines  of  the  Anabaptists.  The 
districts  on  the  Rhine  were  the  first  to  feel  the  influence  of  this 


RIOTOUS  PKOCEEDINGS  OF  THE  ANABAPTISTS.  281 

insuiTcctioiuirv  spirit,  raynieiit  oi  legal  dues  and  villanage  were 
refused  to  the  governor  of  Eglisau,  and,  upon  liis  showing  a  dis- 
position to  luaintain  the  existing  fish-rights,  a  mob  collected,  and 
set  his  authority  at  defiance.  "  Freely  has  God  Almighty  given," 
they  cried,  after  the  example  of  their  CJerman  co-religionists,  "the 
beasts  of  the  wood,  the  birds  in  the  air,  and  the  fish  in  the  run- 
ning stream.  The  use  of  them  belongs  to  the  countryman,  who 
must  also  bear  the  loss  and  damage  they  occasion."  A  deputy  of 
the  government,  who  meant  to  exhort  them  to  order,  was  received 
with  a  shower  of  stones.  The  spirit  of  insubordination  spread 
farther  and  farther.  On  the  23d  April  1525,  a  swarm  of  riotous 
pea-sants  broke  violently  into  the  cloister  of  Itueti,  the  abbot  of 
which  had  previously  escaped  with  the  moneys,  valuables,  and 
documents,  and  gave  themselves  up  to  outrageoiis  licence,  and 
the  wildest  excesses.  In  contempt  of  the  orders  of  the  governor 
of  Grueniugen  to  go  to  their  homes  they  pulled  the  alarm-bells, 
and  thereby  increased  the  number  of  their  comrades.  The  whole 
host  now  rolled  itself  against  the  house  Bubikon  of  the  order 
of  St.  John,  where  riot  and  revelry  began  anew,  and  it  was  only 
with  considerable  difficidty  that  some  deputies  of  the  government 
who  hastened  thither  succeeded  in  inducing  the  uproarious  mul- 
titude to  go  home,  there  put  in  -VNTiting  their  complaints  and 
wishes,  and  hand  them  in  to  the  government. 

From  no  less  than  five  difl'erent  comnumes  petitions  of  giiev- 
ances  were  delivered  to  the  government,  in  which  were  demanded 
the  dissolution  of  the  subject-relation,  (the  petitioners  regardin*' 
God  alone  as  their  Lord,  on  the  other  hand,  their  superiors  in 
Zurich  as  oidy  lords-protectors,)  confiscation  and  application  of 
the  property  of  the  cloisters  for  the  benefit  of  the  district  in  which 
they  may  lie,  the  right  of  every  community  to  call  and  appoint 
their  pastoi-s,  and,  finally,  abrogation  and  diminution  of  several 
impost.s.  One  (if  these  petitions  concluded  with  the  prayer : 
"  May  our  lords  of  Zurich  look  weU  to  the  above  matters,  and 
consider  our  and  the  poors'  need  according  to  the  Weird  of  God. 
And  if  this  should  accord  more,  may  our  otticers  not  bo  restricted 
from  giving  it."  The  Council  investigated  the  reported  griev- 
ances.and  issued  to  the  districts  a  very  lengthened,  instructive,  and 
tranquillising  answer.  "We  record,"  it  is  .saiil.  among  other  things, 
"our  satisfaction  that  your  petitions  are  not  brouglit  before  us  in 


282  EIOTOUS  PEOCEEDINOS  OF  THE  ANABAPTISTS. 

an  intemperate  spirit,  (as  is  tlie  fashion  of  tlie  times,)  and  have, 
therefore,  sat  in  Council  upon  your  articles,  examining  all  deeds, 
documents,  contracts,  letters,  and  seals,  which  we  have  against 
you  and  you  against  us,  worthy  people  of  the  country-district, 
and  we  have  weighed  these,  and  compared  them  with  Holy  Scrip- 
ture, the  Word  of  God,  as  also  have  had  special  regard  to  the 
ebullitions  which  have  everywhere  manifested  themselves  of  late. 
In  regard,  then,  to  your  first  article :  "That  you  will  only  have  God, 
our  heavenly  Father,  for  your  Lord,  us,  however,  for  your  tem- 
poral superiors;  we  opine  that  it  requires  no  answer,  it  being 
seK-evident ;  for,  as  God  is  the  Lord  and  Saviour  of  us  all,  so  are 
your  lords  of  Zurich,  in  worldly  affairs,  in  all  townships,  lord- 
ships, and  governorships,  your  lawful  and  natural  lords  and 
superiors,  having  brought  you  under  them  with  no  force  or  violence 
of  war,  but  by  free  purchase.  Therefore  let  the  matter  so  rest, 
for,  if  you  obey  God,  and  render  to  Him  what  is  due,  ye  will  in 
all  things  lawfully  obey  your  lords  and  superiors,  as  God  com- 
mands to  obey  Him  and  the  magistracy."  In  this  dignified 
Christian  spirit  the  separate  articles  were  considered,  unjust  bur- 
dens and  grievances  were  removed ;  while  the  legality  and 
necessity  of  various  dues  and  services  were  clearly  established. 
The  answer  concludes  with  the  exhortation  and  the  wish  :  "Now, 
dear  friends,  we  have  good  hope  that,  after  you  have  received  our 
answer,  you  will  be  satisfied,  and  content  yourselves,  as  you  can- 
not but  see  that  we  have  honourably  and  faithfully  met  your 
requests,  and  done  more  than  enough ;  for  it  were  neither  becom- 
ing for  us  nor  for  you,  that  any  one  should  refuse  the  magistrate, 
or  any  other,  the  obedience  that  is  due  to  him  in  law  and  right. 
Consider  likewise  what  hostility  we  and  the  whole  province  at 
present  suffer  from  without,  in  that  we  cleave  to  the  Word  of 
God,  and  will  have  nothing  to  do  with  foreign  princes.  Live  ye 
then,  peaceably  and  obediently,  in  the  discipline  and  in  the  fear 
of  God,  and  do  not,  by  riot  and  disobedience  of  your  superiors, 
prepare  for  yourselves  loss,  and  damage,  and  shame?  But  if 
any  one  among  you  instigate  to  rebellion  and  disobedience,  set 
him  right,  and  warn  him  to  depart  from  such  courses,  that  we  both, 
in  the  town  and  in  the  country,  may  live  together,  according  to  the 
will  of  God,  unitedly,  and  in  obedience,  both  towards  him  and  our 
lawful  superiors,  and  may  maintain  that  which  God  the  Almighty 


RIOTOUS  PROCEEDINGS  OF  THE  ANABAPTISTS.  283 

liiitli  giauted  to  our  fathers,  and  us,  their  ehildreii,  to  our  great 
glory,  so  that  every  one  may  see  that  we  have  good,  faithful 
rulere,  and  we,  on  the  other  hand,  good,  faithful,  and  obedient 
subjects,  and  also,  that  we  may,  reciprocally  with  one  another, 
pursue  that  which  is  conducive  to  piety,  peace,  and  content- 
ment. We,  on  our  parts,  engage  to  do  and  suffer  all  for  you,  as 
it  behoves  pious  and  honourable  lords  and  superiors  to  do  and 
sutler  for  their  subjects.  ]\Iay  the  Almighty  help  us  both,  in  our 
respective  duties,  with  His  divine  gi-ace." 

Tliese  exhortations,  which  were  read  aloud,  and  explained  and 
commented  on  orally  by  deputies  of  the  government,  in  all  the  dis- 
tricts, met,  at  tirst,  with  no  very  favourable  reception.  Several  com- 
munes announced  that  they  would  only  give  their  answer  after  con- 
sultation M'ith  the  others,  in  consequence  of  which,  on  Pentecost 
Monday,  5th  June  lo25,  a  meeting  of  the  populace  was  held  on  a 
field  near  Toess,  where  about  four  thousand  men  were  present.  Nor 
here  at  first  would  they  allow  a  deputation  of  the  Council,  headed 
by  the  burgomaster,  to  .speak.  "  It  is  for  us  to  order,"  cried  the 
insurgents;  "  and  we'll  accustom  the  towners  to  walk  afoot, 
wlule  we  shall  ride  deputies."  Gradually,  however,  the  voice  of 
duty  and  of  fair  play  prevailed  with  the  multitiide,  and  a  gover- 
nor, l^ivater,  and  others  succeeded  in  obtaining  a  hearing.  The 
rubble  dispei-sed  without  having  come  to  any  resolution.  ^lany  of 
those  who  had  taken  part  in  the  meeting  were,  on  the  home-going, 
invited  by  the  citizens  of  Winterthur,  and  hospitably  treated  in 
their  houses,  when  the  events  of  the  day  were  farther  discussed. 
Many  were  thus  brought  to  a  better  mind.  Some  errors  prevailing 
on  tithes,  a  public  dis]>utation  was  ordered  to  be  holden  on  this 
subject,  in  which  Zwingli  again  took  a  chief  part.  While  the 
Anabaptists  and  the  rioters  denounced  their  exaction  as  contrary 
to  law  and  justice,  the  town-clerk,  am  Gruet,  whom  we  have 
already  mentioned,  as  a  zealous  ]»artizan  of  the  Papacy,  defended 
their  legality,  on  the  ground  of  the  Levitical  law.  Zwingli  was  thus 
placed  between  two  tires.  Against  the  town-clerk,  he  maintaiut'd 
that  the  Levitical  tithe-law,  with  the  whole  Levitical  priesthood, 
anil  all  dependent  upon  it,  was  abolished  by  the  New  Testament 
Against  the  Anal taj»tist.s,  he  made  it  clear  that  the  existing  tithes 
had  grown  to  be  a  legal  debt,  through  sale  and  purchase,  which 
debt  must  bp  discharged,  according  to  human  and  divine  law. 


284  EIOTOUS  PROCEEDINGS  OF  THE  ANABAPTISTS, 

(Eolii.  xiii.)  Above  all,  the  tithes  devoted  to  the  support  of 
public  worship  were  absolutely  necessary,  inasmuch  as,  if  not 
exacted,  the  expenses  of  worship  must  be  defrayed  by  other  im- 
positions. 

Both  in  sermons  and  writings  Zwingli  and  his  friends  wrought 
with  zeal  and  ardour  to  throw  the  light  of  the  gospel  round  this 
subject,  and  Christian  truth  here  proved  itself  to  be  a  leaven 
penetrating  the  whole  mass  of  the  people,  filling  and  governing 
the  mass  by  its  power.  The  insurrectionary  and  turbulent  spirit 
of  the  Anabaptists,  both  in  regard  to  things  civil  and  ecclesiastical, 
having  been  completely  exposed  by  the  public  disputation,  and 
deprived  of  its  baleful  power,  their  proceedings  fell  into  a  general 
unpopularity,  which  immediately  shewed  itself  in  expressions  of 
confidence  in  the  government  and  its  measures,  addressed  to  it  in 
answer  to  a  renewed  summons  on  its  part.  "  Our  persons  and  pro- 
perty," wrote  Kegenstorf,  "  dear  sirs,  we  shall  place  at  your  dis- 
posal, so  long  as  you  continue  to  rule  in  a  Christian  spirit;  for 
although  we  had  some  grievances  to  complain  of,  we  have,  on  the 
other  hand,  borne  in  mind  the  lessons  of  the  evangelists  and 
ajDOstles,  which  shew  equally  to  you  and  to  us  how  one  part  is  to 
hold  itself  in  reference  to  the  other ;  and  we  gratefully  recognise 
your  love,  your  toil  and  trouble,  and  that  you  have  removed  from 
us  some  burdens.  Continue  to  act  towards  us  as  affectionate 
fathers  towards  their  sons ;  plant  the  good,  root  out  the  evil,  as 
that  which  of  itseK  cannot  long  endure."* 

It  was  here  also  the  power  of  divine  truth  which  put  an  end  to  an 
insurgent  spirit  which  had  widely  extended  itself,  and  threatened 
to  dissolve  all  civil  order.  The  merit,  however,  of  having  effected 
this  great  good,  next  to  the  divine  mercy  belongs  to  Zwingli,  who 
saw,  with  penetrating  glance,  all  the  exigencies  of  the  occasion, 
who  shaped  the  course  of  proceeding  in  the  light  and  accord- 
ing to  the  prescriptions  of  the  Word  of  God,  and  who,  by  the 
energy  of  his  preaching  and  writings,  bowed  the  hearts  both  of 
rulers  and  ruled  under  its  sacred  influence.  After  the  Anabap- 
tists had  lost  all  authority  and  resj)ect  among  the  people,  their 
chief  men  were,  at  Zwingli's  advice  and  intervention,  set  at  liberty, 

*  A  single  individual,  "  Snesstrunk,"  was  beheaded  by  the  sword  for  vitupera- 
tions of  the  government,  continued  opposition  to  the  laws,  and  excitement  to 
rebellion. 


RIOTOUS  PROCEEDINCJS  OF  THE  ANABAPTISTS.  285 

with  a  serious  adiuonitioii  to  aim-iul  their  Avays.  They  soon, 
however,  began  again  to  hold  meetings,  and  to  spread  their  doc- 
trines among  the  credulous.  INIanz  and  Blaurock  were  accord- 
ingly again  imprisoned,  a  fate  which  Grebel  only  escaped  by  a 
speedy  flight.  About  the  same  time  some  followers  of  this  sect 
perpetrated  at  St.  Gall,  where  they  were  greatly  on  the  increase, 
a  deed  of  liorror  which  opened  the  eyes  of  all  to  the  dangers  to  be 
apprehended  from  these  fanatics.  In  an  out  of  the  way  house  at 
Muehlegg,  near  St.  Gall,  there  lived  an  octogenarian  peasant, 
Schucker,  with  his  five  sons,  who  all,  with  the  remaining  members 
of  the  ftimily,  and  the  seivants,  had  taken  up  Anabnptism.  On 
Shrove-Tuesday,  the  7th  February  1526,  many  of  the  sect  were 
assembled  here.  A  calf  was  killed,  and  a  feast  made,  the  partici- 
jiators  iuwliich  got  so  inflamed  by  the  deep  potations  of  wine  in 
wliich  they  indulged,  that,  as  Bullinger  mentions,  they  spent  the 
whole  night  amid  extraordinary  gestures,  contortion.?,  dialogues  with 
each  other,  vi.sions,  and  revelations.  Towards  morning,  Thomas 
Schucker  came  up  to  his  younger  brotlier,  Leonhard,  with  the 
gall  of  the  calf  in  the  bladder,  saying,  "  Bitter  as  gall  is  the  death 
thou  shalt  suffer.  Kneel  brother."  Leonhard  obeyed  the  summons. 
Thomas  took  up  a  sword,  and  with  the  words,  "  The  will  of  the 
Father  is  accomplished,"  his  brother's  head  rolled  at  liis  feet. 
All  ])resent  shrunk  back  horror-struck,  and  fled  from  the  fratricide. 
He,  however,  ran  with  the  reeking  sword,  clad  only  in  his  shii-t 
and  trowsers,  to  the  burgomaster.  Dr.  Joachim  Vadian,  and 
shouted  in  his  ears,  "  I  proclaim  to  thee  the  day  of  the  Lord." 
The  fanatic  was  taken  into  custody,  and  he  was  executed  on  the 
16th  Februar}^ 

Univei-sal  indignation  was  expressed  at  this  act  of  enormity, 
and  tlie  people  vehemently  called  upon  the  government  to  put  a 
stop,  by  measures  of  severity,  to  such  disorder.?.  Blaurock,  as  a 
foreigner,  was  whipped  out  of  the  town,  and  banished  the  land. 
Manz,  and  two  Anaba])tists  from  the  coimtiy,  on  their  refusing 
to  make  any  recantation  or  promise  of  amendment,  were  put 
to  death  by  drowning.*  Zwingli  had  no  share  whatever  in 
these  proceedings,  having,  notwithstanding  the  attacks  made 
upon  him  by  the  Anabaptists,  always  advocated  the  adoption  of 

*  This  punishment  they  suflFered.  not  for  their  reliK'"""  opinions,  Imt  for  their 
obstinate  resistance  to  the  civil  authority. 


286  RIOTOUS  PROCEEDINGS  OF  THE  ANABAPTISTS. 

mild  measures,  because  he  would  alone  work  through  the  light  and 
the  power  of  the  Word  of  God,  and  through  it  alone  disperse  the 
mists  of  error.  Indeed,  the  complete  victory  gained  in  Switzerland 
over  the  Anabaptists  is  to  be  ascribed  to  the  use  of  this  weapon. 
The  contest,  however,  cost  the  Reformer,  as  he  himself  expresses 
it,  more  sweat  than  his  fight  with  the  Papacy ;  nay,  he  calls  the 
latter,  in  comparison  with  this,  but  child's  play.  But  sweat  and 
toil  were  not  here  in  vain.  For  the  new  church  came  out  of  this 
trial,  purified  and  strengthened,  and  proved  itself  solid,  like  the 
house  built  by  the  wise  man  upon  the  immovable  rock,  against 
which  the  storm  roared  and  the  waves  lashed  in  vain.  Zwingli 
himself,  in  carrying  on  this  contest,  became  only  the  deeper 
versed  in  the  knowledge  of  the  Word  of  God,  while,  at  the  same 
time,  he  was  especially  led,  by  his  studies  on  the  subject,  to  per- 
ceive the  intimate  connection  subsisting  between  the  Old  and 
New  Testaments. 

In  two  quarters,  however,  the  evil  consequences  of  this  strife 
of  opinions  made  themselves  visible,  and  opposed  serious  obstacles 
to  the  progress  of  the  Reformation.  On  the  one  hand,  this  wild 
offshoot  was,  with  mischievous  joy,  represented  by  the  Papists  as 
the  natural  consequence  and  fruit  of  the  free  preaching  of  the 
gospel,  so  that,  on  this  ground,  the  enemies  of  the  gospel  succeeded 
in  many  places  in  suppressing  it,  and  in  stifling  the  thirst  which 
had  recently  been  awakened  for  its  healing  waters.  On  the 
other  hand,  these  divisions  exerted  an  injurious  influence  medi- 
ately on  the  farther  development  and  conformation  of  the  Refor- 
mation, by  opening  up  a  new  source  of  dissension,  the  so-called 
"Supper-contest"  between  Luther  and  Zwingli  and  their  respec- 
tive friends  and  scholars.  We  shall  now  proceed  to  survey  this 
important  contest  more  narrowly,  in  so  far  as  it  concerns  Zwingli. 

5.  The  Doctrine  or  Zwingli  and  of  Luther  in  regard  to 
THE  Lord's  Supper. — The  Idiosyncrasies  and  Different 
Development  of  their  Minds.  —  Origin  of  the  Strife 

ABOUT  THE  LORD'S  SuPPER. 

The  like  contest  which  Luther  had  to  cany  on  against  the 
Anabaptists  in  Saxony,  Zwingli  had  to  maintain  against  the  same 
enemy   in  Zurich,  nay,  the  fanatics  in  Zurich,  as  it  has  been 


ZWINGLI  AND  LUTHER  ON  TUE  LOHD's  SUPPER.      287 

a])ove  mentioned,  bonowed  their  names  and  their  party  badges 
from  their  German  co-religionists.  While  Luther  was  sojourning 
at  the  Wartburo-,  (from  April  1521  till  March  1522,)  his  colleague 
and  former  fellow-labourer  in  the  work  of  the  lieformution,  l)r. 
Andrew  Carlstadt  *  had  entered  into  connection  with  fanatics 
from  Zwickau,"|-  who  boasted  of  direct  revelations  from  heaven, 
who  rejected  infant  baptism,  and  attacked  and  with  infuriated 
ardour,  sought  to  overthrow  the  existing  order  in  church  and 
state.  Under  the  influence  of  these  people,  and  hurried  away 
by  his  ill-regulated  zeal  for  reformation,  Carlstadt  endeavoured,  in 
union  with  some  heated  spirits,  especially  from  amongst  the 
students,  to  revolutionise,  in  a  turbulent  and  violent  manner, 
which  gave  deep  offence  to  many,  the  whole  institutions  of  public 
worship.  The  Mass  was  suddenly  abolished,  and  the  Supper, 
without  preparation  of  heart  and  confession  of  sin,  administered 
in  both  kinds,  the  altars  were  cast  down,  the  monks  who  shewed 
any  disinclination  to  the  new  system  of  things  were  maltreated, 
and  the  images  M-ere  thrown  out  of  the  churches.  Luther,  when 
he  heard  at  the  Wartburg  of  these  riotous  proceedings,  repaired, 
trusting  in  the  protecting  arm  of  God,  instantly  to  Wittenberg, 
and  restored  order  by  the  power  of  his  preaching,  which  he  con- 
tinued before  a  great  concourse  of  people  for  eight  days  succes- 
sively, and  won  over  Carlstadt  again  to  more  wholesome  labours 
in  the  service  of  the  Church  and  the  University.  WHien  Luther 
set  liis  face  against  these  violent  attempts  at  reformation,  lie  was 
not  the  less  convinced  of  the  necessity  of  abolishing,  in  the  course 
of  time,  everything  in  public  worship  and  ecclesiastical  arrange- 
ments, which  had  a  tendency  to  compromise  the  honour  of  God,  and 
the  merits  of  Christ,  and  thereby  to  do  injury  to  the  salvation  of 
the  souL     Like  Zwingli,:J:  he  held  it  to  be  his  chief  C(jmmission 

*  His  nnme  was,  properly  speaking,  Andrew  Ralph  Bodensteiii;  lie  i.«,  how- 
ever, generally  called  Carlstadt,  after  his  hirth-jdaic  of  this  name  in  Fnineonia, 

t  The  so-called  "Zwickau  projjhets."  The  most  im])()rtant  mcmlicrs  of  this 
society  were  Nicolas  Storch,  a  cloth-maker,  Martin  CellariiL*;.  Marx  Iliiehner, 
and  the  notorious  Thomas  Muenzer. 

X  Thushespeaks  jiarticularly  in  reference  to  imapes,  in  his  preaching  ajrainst  the 
Anabaptists,  durinp  the  first  eipht  days  after  his  arrival  in  Wittcnhcr^r.  "  Idols, 
they  are  called,  on  whidi  the  heart  iian^rs  like  pears  on  a  tree;  of  which  there 
have  been  many  amonp  the  heathen,  and  of  whidi  there  are  many  at  tliis  day  in 
the  popedom;  which  are  not  simply  looked  at,  but  arc  looked  at  witli  confidence, 
stich  an  image  being  regarded  as  a  god.  and  heretics  having  worshijipcd  surh 


288  ZWINGLl  AND  LUTHEE  ON  THE  LORD'S  SUPPER. 

faithfully  to  preach  the  Word  of  God,  and  leave  it  to  the  Lord  to 
appoint  the  time  and  the  hour  when  a  reform  for  the  weal  of  His 
Church  should  be  undertaken.  Among  the  ordinances  of  public 
worship  which,  in  the  Papal  Church,  had  departed  the  widest 
from  its  original  institution  and  import,  to  the  great  detriment  of 
the  salvation  of  souls,  the  Mass  occupied  the  first  place,  which 
had  usurped  the  place  of  the  Supper  appointed  by  Christ.  Both 
the  Eeformers,  accordingly,  after  they  found  in  Christ  salvation, 
and  in  the  Word  of  God  the  true  light,  by  which  to  prove  and 
test  all  existing  ecclesiastical  ceremonies,  were  filled  with  a  holy 
indignation  against  the  false  doctrine  spread  by  the  papists, 
"  that  the  Mass  is  a  sacrifice,"  the  merits  of  Christ's  sufferings 
being  thereby  depreciated,  and  the  doctrine  of  the  apostles,  that  a 
sacrifice  for  sin  was  made  once  for  all  by  Christ,  practically 
annulled  ;*  both  likewise  recognised  in  the  asseveration,  which 
was  the  natural  fruit  of  this  doctrine,  "  that  the  priest,  in  the  Mass, 
daily  offers  up  Christ  for  the  living  and  the  dead,"  the  grand 
source  of  the  Church's  corruption  ;-f-  and  both  united  in  demand- 
images  in  which  confidence  is  placed.  Such  may  he  pulled  down,  but  only  by 
the  lawful  civil  authority,  for  such  images  are  not  only  looked  at  with  the  eye, 
but  are  looked  at  with  devotion,  with  confidence,  and  adoration." 

*  Zwingli:  The  pretence  of  popery,  that  it  offers  up  Christ  for  other  men,  it  has 
itself  invented.  The  pretence  is  without  foundation  in  the  Scriptures,  and 
from  it  two  impugnments  of  God,  and  two  great  crimes,  have  arisen.  The  first 
impugnment  of  God  consists  in  this,  that  the  worth  and  preciousness  of  the  suf- 
ferings of  Christ  are  darkened.  Christ,  who  was  tnie  God  and  man,  is  of  so  great 
and  infinite  value,  that  His  death,  He  being  only  once  sacrificed,  is  rich  and  pre- 
cious enough  to  pay  for  the  sins  of  the  whole  world  to  all  eternity.  Now,  popery 
giving  out  its  sacrifice  for  sin,  the  matter  stands  thus;  either  Christ,  by  His  suf- 
fering once  for  all,  did  not  complete  redemption,  or  redemption  is  no  longer  of 
avail.  Both  are  impug-nments  of  Christ.  The  other  impugnment  is,  that  no  man  can 
offer  a  greater  sacrifice  than  Idmself,  as  Paul  teaches,  Rom.  xii.  1 ;  mark,  this 
is  the  highest  sacrifice  which  a  man  can  offer,  himself.  Whoever  pretends  to  offer 
Christ,  takes  the  honour  from  Christ  and  gives  it  to  himself.  Luther:  That  Christ 
is  offered  in  the  mass  is  a  blasphemy  against  God,  and  an  enormity,  and  the  worst 
sin  which  can  be  committed.  Christ  has  been  once  sacrificed;  now  He  requires 
nothing  more  but  that  we  praise  Him  to  all  eternity.  The  sacrifice  of  Christ 
once  made  holds  good  for  ever,  and  we  are  saved  by  believing  on  it.  If  any- 
thing is  erected  at  the  side  of  this  sacrifice  it  is  a  blasphemy  of  God. 

t  Zwingli:  The  false  opinion  that  the  Mass  is  a  sacrifice  has  implanted  and 
encouraged  every  vice.  For  all  robbers,  usurers,  traitors,  murderers,  adulterers, 
have  had  the  opinion,  if  mass  were  said  for  them  it  was  all  right  with  them.  And 
it  cannot  but  be  that  such  hare  been  often  led  to  commit  sin  on  this  very  gi-ound. 
It  is  very  visible  in  the  Masses  they  have  paid  for,  an<l  Ihe  benefices  they  have 


ZWINGLI  AND  LUTHER  ON  THE  LORD'S  SUPPER.  2<S9 

iiig  that  this  sacraiueiit  should  he  brought  liuck  to  the  simple 
state  in  which  it  was  instituted  and  exemplified  by  Christ,*  and 
that  the  Supper  sliould  be  administered  in  both  kinds.  With  the 
conception  of  the  sacrificial  character  of  the  Mass,  there  is  closely 
connected  the  false  doctrine  adopted  by  the  Papal  Church  through 
the  resolution  of  a  Church-Council,  held  at  Rome,  1215,  "that 
the  br(\ul  and  wine  are  changed  into  the  real  and  essential  body, 
and  into  the  real  and  essential  blood  of  Christ,  by  the  priestly 
consecration  at  the  Supper."  In  the  conflict  waged  against  this 
doctrine,  the  dilterent  intellectual  peculiarities  of  the  two  llefor- 
mers,  and  their  ditferent  intellectual  visual  powers,  now  in 
diametric  opposition,  now  approximating  very  closely,  arising 
fn)m  a  dill'erence  in  spiritual  education  and  manner  of  life,  made 
themselves  felt  so  sensibly  that  these  two  great  men,  who  stood 
upon  one  and  the  same  foundation  of  faith,  became  involved  in  a 
gigantic  contest  that  occupied  them  much  till  their  deaths,  aud 
tore  asunder  the  church,  renovated  by  them,  and  placed  by  them 
on  the  one  rock  of  salvation,  Jesus  Christ,  into  two  mighty  fac- 
tions. We  shall  now  direct  our  attention  to  the  diverse  views  of 
(he  two  Eeformers  upon  this  subject  ere  we  proceed  to  the  detail 
of  the  conflict  itself  which  unhappily  broke  out  between  them. 
From  the  standing-point  of  faith  on  God  alone  and  his  Word, 

founded.    Popery,  however,  had  not  enough  in  rohhing  tlie  living  of  their  money 
to  discharge  her  masses;  slie  brought  the  dead  into  the  bill  also. 

Luther:  From  the  moment  that  the  Mass  was  proclaimed  to  be  a  sacrifice,  from 
that  moment  the  devil  easily  drew  the  money  and  property  of  all  the  world  to 
himself,  and,  by  the  force  of  riches,  he  brought  into  the  priesthood,  avarice,  ambi- 
tion, pride,  unchastity,  all  villany  and  baseness,  to  the  total  extinction  of  a  true 
))riesthood,  till  at  length  the  world  knew  nothing  more  but  mass-])riests  and  their 
sacrifices,  with  which  all  men  were  deceived  who  weened  that,  by  their  money, 
they  could  obtain  forgiveness  of  sins,  and  everlasting  life. 

*  Zwingli's  opinion  on  this  point  is  well  known,  it  having  found  currency  and 
recognition  in  the  Calvinistie  Church.  Luther  exjircsscs  his  sentiments  in  this 
manner :  "The  nearer  our  Masses  come  to  the  first  ^faxs  of  Christ,  the  better  with- 
out doubt  they  are,  and  the  farther  from  it,  the  more  dangerous.  An  eftbrt  is  to 
lie  made  above  cvcni'thing  else,  that  we  may  safely  and  happily  come  to  a  true 
ami  right  knijwlctlge  of  this  Sacrament,  that  all  may  be  set  aside  which  has  been 
added  to  the  first  and  simple  institution  of  it  by  human  devotion  and  zeal,  such 
as  mnss-rohfs,  nrnamrjit/;,  r/iantiiifj,  prai/crs,  organs,  mndles,  and  the  wiiole  pomp 
of  visible  things,  and  that  we  may  turn  our  outward  eye  and  our  inward 
soul  to  the  pure  institution  of  Christ,  and  maintain  nothing  but  the  Word  of 
Christ,  by  which  He  has  ordained,  instituted,  and  completed  it."'—  Wai.ch,  vol. 
\ix.  p.  a.'). 

T 


290  ZWINGLI  AND  LUTHER  ON  THE  LOED  S  SUPPER. 

which  Word  must  be  held  to  explain  itself,  Zwingli  had,  at 
a  very  early  period,  arrived  at  the  conviction  that  the  transub- 
stantiation  doctrine  of  the  Papistical  Church  is  false,  and  that  it 
has  put  an  erroneous  interpretation  on  the  words  of  the  institu- 
tion of  the  Holy  Sacrament,  "  This  is  my  body,"  and  "  This  is  my 
blood,"  from  which  erroneous  interj)retation  the  false  dogma  is 
derived.  Christ  has,  by  His  death  on  the  cross,  accomphshed  an 
eternal  redemption  and  propitiation  for  our  sins,  of  which  we  can 
alone  be  partakers  through  faith.  To  this  propitiatory  death  the 
Holy  Supper  refers  us,  by  the  symbols  of  bread  broken  and  wine 
poured  out.  The  reality,  i.  e.,  the  fruit,  of  the  redemption  and 
propitiation,  we  appropriate  to  ourselves  alone  hj  faith.  Hence 
both  the  expressions,  "  eating  the  flesh  of  Christ,"  and  "  drinking 
His  blood,"  are  to  be  understood  figuratively  for  "  believing  on 
Jesus  Christ,  who  was  crucified,  and  shed  His  blood  for  us."  The 
bread  broken  and  the  wine  poured  forth  into  the  cup  make  pre- 
sent to  us,  in  a  figurative  sense,  the  crucified  body  of  Christ,  and 
His  blood  shed  for  us.  He  who,  in  true  faith,  partakes  of  these 
symbols  in  the  Supper,  to  him  Christ  is  as  near  as  if  He  were 
dying  for  him  at  that  very  moment  on  the  cross  ;  for  Christ,  who 
is  everlasting  God,  is  omniscient  at  all  times,  and  his  sufferings 
are  eternally  fruitful.  (Heb.  ix.  14.)*  In  this  sense,  the  Holy 
Supper  has  been  given  and  appointed  to  be  an  eternal  sign  of  the 
love  of  Christ,  and  its  intention  is  to  make  present  to  us,  as  often 
as  it  is  celebrated.  Him  who  suffered  for  us  on  the  wood  of  the 
cross  in  such  a  manner  that,  with  the  eye  of  the  soul,  we  may  behold 
Him  alone,  admire  Qi-i(\.  embrace  Him  with  lively  faith.  Now,  just 
as  certainly  as  this  touching  of  Him  by  faith  is  far  more  precious 
than  the  touching  even  of  His  body,  (for  many  have  touched  Him 
materially  to  their  destruction,  but  no  man  has  contemplated  Him 
in  faith  in  the  above  described  manner  without  benefit,)  just  as 
certainly  is  it  this  contemplation  and  partaking  alone  which  is 
required.  While  we  are,  by  faith,  assured  of  that  which  the 
symbols  represent  to  us,  that  Christ  has  atoned  for  our  sins,  our 
soul  is  freed  from  the  hunger  of  despair,  and  we  are  everlastingly 
quickened  with  the  heavenly  nourishment  of  God's  love  and 
grace."  This  view  of  the  partaking  of  the  Supper  Zwingli  con- 
ceived to  be  grounded  on  the  words  of  Christ,  John  vi.,  in  which 

*  Exposition  of  the  Eighteenth  Article  of  the  Propositions. 


ZWINGLl  AND  LUTHER  ON  THE  LORDS  SUl'PEIl.      2M1 

Christ  himself  (.-xplaizis  how  the  expressions,  "  eating  his  flesh," 
and  "drinking  his  blood,"  are  to  be  understood.  Christ  incul- 
cates here,  ver.  26,  upon  the  Jews,  who  sought  earthly  food  from 
Him,  the  necessity  of  labouring  for  heavenly  food,  which  "endureth 
unto  everlasting  life,"  and  He  designates  "  himself,"  ver.  3o, 
as  "  the  bread  of  life  which  everlastingly  quickens  him  who  comes 
to  him,  and  believes  on  him."  In  what  manner  He  is  the  bread 
of  life.  He  explains  in  the  words,  ver.  51,  "The  bread  that  I  will 
give  is  my  Hesh,  which  I  will  give  for  the  life  of  the  world."  This, 
my  self-sacrifice,  for  sinners,  will  propitiate  the  world  again  to 
my  Father,  which  propitiation  is  nothing  else  but  a  restoration  to 
life ;  thereby,  by  my  giving  myseK  up,  and  dying,  I  become  a 
food  for  souls,  on  which  they  may  nourish  their  hopes,  and 
be  certain  of  the  mercy  of  God ;  for  how  could  the  Divine 
mercy  deny  anything  to  poor  sinful  man,  having  given  up  the 
Son  for  him.  Thus  my  Hesh,  in  so  far  as  it  is  killed,  is  a  food, 
i.e.,  a  hope  and  consolation  of  the  soul.  When  Christ  says, 
ver.  54,  "Whoso  eateth  my  flesh  and  drinketh  my  blood  hath 
eternal  life,"  and  in  ver.  47,  "  He  that  believeth  on  me  hath 
everlasting  life,"  it  is  clear  that  "eating  His  flesh"  and  "believ- 
ing on  Him"  are  one  and  the  same  thing,  for  if  not  there  would 
be  two  different  roads  to  salvation;  the  one  by  the  eating  of  His 
flesh,  and  the  other  by  believing  on  Him.  It  is  thus  oi  faith,  and 
not  of  bodily  eating,  that  Christ  here  speaks.  This  is  still  more 
clearly  evident  from  the  conclusion  of  his  address,  ver.  61-63. 
The  Jews,  not  comprehending,  or  not  being  willing  to  compre- 
hend, the  gracious,  though  figurative,  speech  of  Christ,  and  his 
disciples  murmuring  over  the  "  hard  saying,"  Christ  adds,  ver. 
63,  "  It  is  the  Spirit  that  quickeneth ;  the  flesh  profiteth  nothing : 
the  words  that  I  speak  unto  you  they  are  Spirit,  and  they  are 
life."  Can  plainer  words  be  used  to  repel  the  opinions  and 
assertions,  more  froward  than  pious,  that  the  substance  of  the 
bread  is  changed  into  flesh,  or  that  Christ  is  bodily  and  essen- 
tially partaken  of  in  the  Supper,  than  those:  the  flesh  profiteth 
nothing?  That  Christ  is  here  speaking  of  His  own  flesh  is  clear, 
for  it  was  this  alone  which  was  the  subject  of  discourse,  and  this 
they  had  to  eat,  as  they  thought,  which,  for  the  Jews  and  the 
di.sciples.  was  a  hard  saying.  But  hoiu  does  his  flesh  profit 
nothing?     Plaiidy  for  eating,  as  the   disci])l('s  understood  His 


292  ZWINGLI  AND  LUTHER  ON  THE  LOllDS  SUPPER. 

words,  and  which  foolish  conception  He  would  here  dissipate. 
Otherwise,  the  flesh  of  Christ  is  of  great,  nay,  of  incalculable 
value,  but  as  slain,  not  as  eaten.  Slain  it  has  delivered  us 
from  death,  but  eaten  it  profits  us  nothing.  He  who  is  truth 
itself  tells  us  this,  therefore  it  must  be  so.  "  The  words,"  He 
continues,- "that  I  speak  unto  you,  they  are  spirit,  and  they  are 
life."  AVliat  words?  "  He  that  eateth  my  flesh,  and  drinketh 
my  blood  hath  everlasting  life,"  and,  "  He  that  believeth  on  me 
hath  everlasting  life."  These  words, — that  Christ  on  the  cross 
is  our  redemption  and  salvation,  believed  by  us,  and  received 
into  the  depth  of  our  hearts,  procure  for  us  everlasting  life. 
These  are  the  words  that  Christ  spoke  that  are  spirit  and 
life.  Another  passage  which  ZwiugH  brought  forward  in  proof 
that  by  "eating  Christ"  is  to  be  understood  "believing  on 
Christ,"  he  took  from  1  Cor.  iii.  4.  Paul  teaches  here  that  they 
of  old  are  just  as  worthy  as  we,  having  had  the  same  God  whom 
we  have,  the  same  Christ  whom  we  have,  although  they  set  their 
hopes  upon  the  promised,  we  upon  the  already  come  Messiah ; 
yet  God  was  displeased  at  them  when  they  were  disobedient. 
Among  other  things  which  he  says  they  had  not  less  than  we, 
were  "  the  same  spiritual  meat,"  and  "  the  same  spiritual  drink." 
But  it  is  undeniable  that  they  neither  ate  the  bodily  flesh,  nor 
drank  the  bodily  blood  of  Christ,  He  not  having  become  man 
till  many  hundred  years  afterwards.  Therefore  their  eating 
must  have  been  nothing  else  but  their  believing  on  Christ,  who, 
at  a  future  day,  was  to  give  His  body,  and  shed  His  blood  for 
them.  If,  however,  they  had  "  the  same  spiritual  meat"  which 
we  have,  as  the  apostle  says,  and  they  did  not  eat  his  body,  or 
drink  his  blood,  our  eating  of  the  body  and  drinking  of  the  blood 
of  Christ  can  be  nothing  but  our  believing  on  Him  who  died  for 
us.  In  the  light  of  these  passages  of  Holy  Scripture,  Zwingli 
proceeded  to  an  explanation  of  the  words  of  institution.  If  the 
eating  of  Christ's  flesh  and  the  drinking  of  His  blood  signifies, 
according  to  the  declaration  of  the  Lord  himself  in  the  gospel  of 
John,  believing  on  Christ,  and  if  He  corrects  the  misconcep- 
tion of  the  disciples  with  regard  to  the  bodily  partaking  of  His 
flesh  with  the  words,  "  the  flesh  profiteth  nothing,"  the  same 
phraseology  in  the  words  of  institution  must  have  the  same  sense 
as  here,  for  Christ  cannot  possibly  desire  us  to  eat  His  flesh, 


ZWINGLI  AND  LUTHEK  ON  THE  LORD'S  SUPPER.      2.')3 

which  he  so  (listinctly  states  in  Jolin  vi.  j)rofitc'th  nothing.  The 
Word  of  God  contains  no  contradiction  of  itself,  but  it  exhil)its 
a  beautiful  harmony  throughout,  if  we  but  rightly  understand  it. 
Holy  Scripture  is  replete  with  figurative  language  and  expres- 
sions, and  Christ  employs  such  modes  of  expression,  both  when 
speaking  of  the  doctrine  of  the  kingdom  and  of  His  own  person, 
as,  "the  seed  is  the  Word  of  God;"  "the  field  is  the  world;" 
"  the  harvest  is  the  end  of  the  world;"  "  I  am  the  vine."  These 
are  all  figures  of  speech  of  a  similar  form  with  "  this  is  my  body 
and  this  is  my  blood." 

Just  as  Zwingli,  after  weighing  the  words  of  institution  in 
connection  with  the  above  passages,  had  obtained  the  conviction 
that  they  were  not  to  be  taken  literally,  but  figuratively,  and 
was  seeking  for  a  fitting  expression  to  make  the  image  intel- 
ligible and  comprehensible  to  every  one,  there  came  to  him,  in 
the  summer  of  1522,  two  learned  men  from  Holland,  John  Kho- 
dius  and  George  Sagan,*  wath  a  treatise,  in  the  form  of  a  letter, 
from  the  Dutch  lawyer,  Cornelius  Honius  or  Hoen,  upon  the 
words  of  the  institution.  Honius  understood  the  words  in 
a  figurative  sense,  and  he  found  the  figure  in  the  copula- 
tive "  is,"  which  he  rendered  by  "  signifies."  This  explanation 
of  the  figure  pleased  Zwingli  extremely  well,  because  it  seemed 
to  him  at  once  to  coiTCspond  with  the  sense,  and  to  be  simple 
and  intelligible  to  every  mind,  and  because  it  withdrew  the  chief 
foundation  for  the  papistical  transubstantiation-doctrine,  which 
rested  principally  upon  the  strict  literal  sense  of  this  small  word.-f* 
Above  all,  however,  Zwingli  found  himself  compelled,  by  a  regard 
to  the  context,  to  take  the  words  of  the  institution  in  the  figu- 
rative sense,  and  to  explain  "  this  is"  by  "  this  signifies."  Luke 
relates  the  institution  in  the  words,  chap.  xxii.  19,  "  And  he  took 

*  Afcord'mfr  to  an  account,  the  truth  of  wliith,  from  various  hints  in  Zwingli's 
and  in  Lutlicr's  writings,  aj)poars  to  he  in  the  higliest  degree  prohahle,  the  two 
Dutchmen  had  first  repaired  to  Luther,  L'j2.3,  rcciuesting  him  to  intimate  his 
concurrence  in  the  contents  of  Hocn'.s  letter.  From  anxiety  lest  a  desecration 
of  the  sacrament  might  ensue,  Luther  declined  the  refjuest,  although  Carlstadt 
urged  him  to  comply  with  it.  Hereon  they  came  over  Basle  to  Zwingli  at 
Zurich,  who  found  the  views  of  Iloen  corres]>ondent  with  his  own. 

t  The  ever-repeated  proof  for  the  doctrine  of  Transubstantiation  is  contained 
in  the  words:  '•  Christ  said.  This  is  my  body,  and  this  is  my  blood,  consefiucntlj 
hreatl  ami  wine  are  understood  as  changed  into  the  real  body  and  blood  of  the 
Lord,  as  often  as  the  priest  pronounces  these  words  at  the  consecration." 


294  ZWINULI  AND  LUTHER  ON  THE  LORD  S  SUPPER. 

bread,  and  gave  thanks,  and  brake  it,  and  gave  unto  them,  say- 
ing, This  is  my  body  which  is  given  for  you:  this  do  in  remem- 
brance of  me."  Here  we  must  not  disjoin  the  words,  "  this  is 
my  body,"  and  "  which  is  given  for  you,"  but  we  must  allow 
them  to  stand  in  their  natural  connection,  which  is,  "  this  is  my 
body  which  is  given  for  you."  From  this  it  is  clear  that  Christ 
speaks  of  His  body,  which  was  given  up  to  death  for  us,  and 
farther,  that  the  bread  is  not  this  body,  because  if  so,  then  a  loaf 
of  bread  must  have  been  given  up  to  death  for  us.  Christ  points 
to  the  bread,  and  says,  "  This  is  my  body  which  is  given  for  you." 
Mark  here  how  the  words  of  Christ  present  the  key  to  their  own 
explanation  in  the  little  word  "  is,"  which  must  not  be  under- 
stood, as  it  stands  between  bread  and  body,  in  the  literal,  but  in 
the  figurative  sense;  therefore,  the  bread  "signifies"  my  body 
which  is  given  for  you,  or  the  bread  is  a  sign  of  my  body.  But 
how  does  the  bread  in  the  Supper  signify  the  body  of  Christ? 
To  this  I  answer  with  Christ,  inasmuch  as  it  is  "given  for  us!' 
Christ  means  by  these  words  only  to  say  that  the  bread  is  the 
sign  that  He  hath  given  up  His  body  to  us  for  death,  which  His 
following  words  demonstrate,  "  this  do  in  remembrance  of  me." 
Here  we  learn  for  what  purpose  the  figure  of  bread  has  been 
appointed,  namely,  as  a  memorial  of  Christ,  and  that  the  bread  is 
not  the  body  of  Christ,  but  signifies  or  symbolizes  it,  we,  in  break- 
ing of  bread  rememhering  Him  through  the  sign  before  us. 
Paul  gives  the  words  of  the  institution  in  1  Cor.  xi.  24,  thus: 
"  This  is  my  body,  which  is  broken  for  you."  Given  for  you,  and 
broken  for  you,  signify  the  same  thing,  Paul  here  alluding  only 
to  the  resemblance  which  lies  hid  in  the  transaction.  The  words 
in  reference  to  the  cup,  Luke  xxii.  20,  gives  thus :  "  This  cup 
(cup  for  that  which  was  contained  in  it)  is  the  new  testament 
in  my  blood,  which  is  shed  for  you."  That  these  words  of  Christ 
may  be  clearly  seen,  compare  those  given  by  Paul,  1  Cor.  xi.  25, 
which  are  the  same,  "  This  cup  is  the  new  testament  in  my  blood." 
The  sense  is  shortly  this :  The  cup  is  the  new  testament,  which 
is  sealed  in  my  blood,  shed  for  you.  Here  we  see,  first,  that 
neither  Luke  nor  Paul  says  the  cup  is  the  blood  of  Christ,  from 
whence  it  is  to  be  concluded  that  the  other  evangelists  had  no 
intention  to  speak  differently  fi'om  them.  Although  they  say, 
'•  Tlio   cup  {i.e.,   the   wine)  is  my  blood/'  they  mean   to  assert 


ZWINGLI  AND  LUTHER  ON  THE  LORD's  8UPPER.      295 

nuthiiig  more  llian  the  cup  is  a  sign,  a  significatiou,  a  memorial 
of  the  blood  of  the  new  testament  which  has  been  shed  for  us. 
To  the  objection  that  is  here  made,  If  the  cup  is  the  new  testa- 
ment, it  is  likewise  the  blood  of  Christ,  for  Christ's  blood  is  the 
new  testament,  I  reply:  The  blood  of  Christ  is  not  the  new 
testament,  but  the  pardoning  merciful  remission  of  our  sins,  as 
in  Jer.  xxxi  34,  and  Heb.  viil  12,  13,  is  the  new  testament;  but 
the  blood  of  Christ  has  obtained  this  remission.  Hence  it  is 
clear  that  the  blood  of  Christ  is  not  the  new  testament,  but  the 
blood  of  the  new  testament,  i.e.,  the  blood  through  which  the 
new  testament,  to  wit,  the  remission  of  sins,  has  been  acquired. 
In  the  like  sense,  in  the  old  testament,  the  blood  with  which  the 
people  and  the  book  of  the  law  were  sprinkled,  was  called  the 
blood  of  the  testament,  but  never  "  the  testament."  Nor  do  we 
find  that  the  blood  of  Christ  is  anj^vhere  called  "  a  testament," 
although  it  is  called  "  the  blood  of  the  new  testament,"  Now, 
if  the  cup  here  signifies  the  new  testament,  we  must  admit  this 
only  to  be  a  figure  of  speech  similar  to  that  by  Mhieh  Moses  calls 
circumcision  the  covenant,  although  it  was  but  the  sign  of  the 
covenant.  Gen.  xiii,  13.  In  the  same  manner,  the  cup  in  the 
Eucharist  is  called  the  testament,  because  it  signifies  the  blood 
of  Christ  by  which  the  new  testament  was  acquired. 

Finally,  I  cite  the  words  of  Paul,  1  Cor.  xi.  26,  "  For  as  often 
as  ye  eat  this  bread,  and  drink  this  cup,  ye  do  shew  the  Lord's 
death  till  he  come."  Here  the  word  "shew"  means  nothing 
more  than  praise,  exalt,  magnify,  a  signification  which  it  has  in 
1  Peter  ii  9,  and  in  various  passages  of  the  Old  Testament. 
Paul  would  say  that  the  Christian  Church  is  not  to  omit  glori- 
fying the  death  of  Christ  till  He  come  at  the  last  day. 

In  the  above  manner,  Z^^^ngli  proves  that  the  words  of  the 
institution  of  the  Holy  Supper,  if  taken  in  their  proper  connec- 
tion, do  not  admit  of  the  literal  acceptation,  but  speak  decisively 
in  favour  of  the  symbolical  sense.  This  view  found  at  once  confir- 
mation and  illustration  in  the  passage  in  Exod.  xii.  11-27,  where 
the  Pascal  sacrifice  or  Lamb  is  called  "the  Lord's  Passover," 
although  it  only  symbolises  or  commemorates  it.  We  have 
already  seen  how  the  attention  of  Zwingli  was  called  by  a  dream 
to  this  passage,  wliich  seems  to  speak  most  unequivocally  of  all 
for  the  figurative  sense  of  the  words,  "  This  is  my  body."     I^et  ua 


296  ZWINGLI  AND  LUTHER  ON  THE  LOEDS  SUPPER. 

now  see  how  he  carries  out  the  comparison  between  the  two  pas- 
sages, and  establishes  his  view. 

In  Heb.  x.  1,  it  is  said  that  the  law  has  "  a  shadow  of  good 
things  to  come."  As  however,  amid  all  the  shadows  and  pre- 
figurations  which  are  fulfilled  in  Christ,  none  bear  a  stronger 
resemblance  the  one  to  the  other  than  the  Paschal  Lamb  of  the 
Old  Testament  does  to  the  crucified  and  slain  Christ  of  the  New 
Testament,  all  the  apostles  and  all  the  fathers  of  the  Church  are 
of  the  mind  that  the  Paschal  Lamb  is  the  finest  type  of  the  death 
of  Christ,  and  that  Christ  himself  is  the  real  Paschal  Lamb,  by  which 
believers,  delivered  from  the  slavery  of  sin,  are  brought  into  the 
heavenly  Canaan.  Hence  Paul  says,  1  Cor.  v.  7,  "For  even  Christ, 
our  Passover,  is  sacrificed  for  us,"  &c.  Christ  himself  shews  this 
by  word  and  deed,  for  He  says,  two  days  before  the  Passover :  "  Ye 
know  that  after  two  days  is  the  Passover,  and  the  Son  of  man  will 
be  delivered  into  the  hands  of  men  to  be  crucified,  alluding  plainly 
in  these  words  to  the  circumstance,  that  in  this  Passover  the 
Lamb  should  be  slain  that  taketh  away  the  sins  of  the  world. 
During  the  Supper  He  said,  deeply  moved,  "  With  desire  I 
have  desired  to  eat  this  passover  with  you  before  I  suffer;"  to  the 
end,  namely,  that  He  might  abrogate  the  old,  and  institute  the  new 
solemnity,  and  change  the  commemoration  of  a  single  people 
delivered  from  Egyptian  bondage  into  that  of  the  world  redeemed 
from  the  dominion  of  the  devil  and  of  death.  As  none  can  deny 
that  the  festival  that  was  once  celebrated  as  a  commemoration 
of  redemption  from  bodily  servitude  has  passed  into  that  of  our 
Supper  or  Eucharist,  in  which  we  rejoice,  not  indeed  over  bodily 
deliverance,  but  over  the  propitiation  of  the  world  again  with 
God,  through  His  Son,  there  is  undoubtedly  no  passage  in  the 
Old  Testament  more  worthy  of  examination  than  that  which 
treats  of  the  institution  of  the  old  Passover.  For  in  Holy  Scrip- 
ture upon  like  subjects  the  expressions  are  like. 

There  the  Paschal  Lamb  is  called  "  the  Passover,"  or  "  the  sacri- 
fice of  the  Passover,"  while  in  reality  it  only  signified  the  Pass- 
over, or  was  a  symbol  of  it;  here  "bread  and  wine"  are  called 
■'  the  body  and  blood  of  the  Lord."  Shall  we  not  here  adopt  the 
figurative  signification,  when  we  admit  it  there,  everything  lieing 
so  similar  and  corresponding ;  there  a  commemoration  is  appointed, 
here  likewise;  there  ii  is  thf^  rfdemption  of  the  body,  here  the 


ZWINGLl  AND  LUTHER  ON  THE  LORD'S  SUPPER.  297 

i-edemption  of  the  soul,  which  is  celebrated.  As  there  a  symbol 
of  commemoration  was  appointed  before  the  event  itself  took 
place,  the  commemoration  of  which  was  to  be  held  by  comiiij^ 
generations,  so  here  the  symbol  of  Christ  slain  for  us  was  insti- 
tuted before  He  really  was  slain,  while  for  coming  generations 
it  was  to  be  the  symbol  of  the  slain  liedeemer.  There,  on  the 
evening  preceding  the  day  on  which  the  redemption  was  to  be 
accomplished  the  figure  was  instituted;  here  like^^'ise  the  figure 
was  appointed  on  the  evening  before  the  day  when  the  redemp- 
tion was  accomplished,  when  Christ,  the  true  herald,  proclaimed, 
"  It  is  finished."  But  why  do  I  seek  in  these  single  particulars 
to  compare  the  shadow  with  the  reality,  when  in  eveiy  believing 
soul,  as  soon  as  the  word  passover  is  pronounced,  the  recollection 
of  the  death  of  Christ  is  at  once  vividly  recalled  ?  Why  will  we 
not  recognise  in  the  same  light  the  figure  of  speech  employed 
in  the  Supper,  which  figure  we  perceive  so  plainly  in  the  type, 
especially  since  all  is  clear  when  we  concede  it;  all  is  dark, 
confused,  unintelligible,  inexplicable,  when  we  deny  it. 

In  conjunction  with  the  AVord  of  God,  properly  interpreted  by 
itself,  Zwingli's  faith  led  him  to  a  right  recognition  of  the  sig- 
nificance of  the  Supper.  In  the  light  of  faith  he  shrunk  before 
the  dreadful  consequences  of  the  transubstantiation-doctrine,  on 
the  ground  of  which,  the  bread  and  wine  Avere  worshipped,  and 
salvation,  instead  of  being  sought  through  faith  in  Christ,  was 
placed  in  the  outward  partaking  of  the  elements.  "  We  are 
fallen,"  says  he,  "  into  such  gi'oss  folly  as  actually  to  believe  that 
if  we  but  saw  the  bread,  it  would  bring  to  us  salvation.  Nor 
was  this  folly  enough ;  what  we  saw  we  worshipped,  forgetting 
our  own  principles,  in  which  all,  both  ancients  and  moderns  who 
have  written  on  the  subject  areagi-eed,  namely,  that  the  humanity 
of  Christ  is  not  to  be  worshipped  at  all;  God  alone  is  to  be 
worshipped.  But  no  man  has  seen  God  at  any  time.  AVliy  do 
we  worship,  then,  anything  visible,  since  God  alone  is  to  be 
wnrshij)ped,  and  He  is  invisible?  In  what  sophism  can  those 
take  refuge  who  teach  that  the  P^uchari.st,  as  they  call  it,  is  to  be 
worshipped?  Do  we  see  that  any  one  of  the  apostles  adored  the 
Supj)er  when  Christ  instituted  it  in  His  own  commemoration? 
Ah !  our  souls  are  so  entangled  in  the  meshes  of  this  (;rror,  tliat 
I  fear  if  truth  itself  were  to  stand  revealed  befoiv  our  eyes,  we 


298  ZWINGLI  AND  LUTHER  ON  THE  LORD'S  SUPPER. 

should  not  accept  it.  To  what  is  our  faith  directed?  or  on  what 
is  it  grounded?  Is  not  God  the  object  of  it?  Wliy  do  we 
hesitate,  then,  to  break  loose  from  ceremonies?  Why  do  we 
place  our  hope  on  things  to  which  Christ  never  directed  it?  Is 
not  our  salvation  to  be  found  alone  in  Him  who  is  the  Saviour 
^  of  all  the  ends  of  the  earth?" 

Zwingli,  although  he  had  come  to  the  firm  conviction  that  the 
word  "  is"  in  the  institution  of  the  Supper,  must  not  be  taken 
literally,  but  in  the  sense  of  "  signifies,"  by  no  means  desired  the 
adoption  of  any  change  in  the  formula  itself;  "  for,"  thus  he 
expresses  himself,  "when  it  is  said,  'this  is  my  body,'  the  sacra- 
ment is  much  more  solemn  and  sublime  than  when  it  is  said 
"  this  signifies  my  body,"  wherefore  we  desire  not  a  letter  of  it 
changed.  The  significance  of  the  Supper  in  this  point  of  view 
he  illustrated  by  the  following  image,  as  ingenious  as  it  is 
pertinent : — "  As  the  father  of  a  family  who  is  on  the  point  of 
journeying  to  a  distant  land,  gives  to  his  spouse  his  best  ring,  on 
which  his  image  is  engraved,  so  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  at  his 
departure  has  bequeathed  to  His  bride,  the  Church,  His  image 
in  the  sacrament  of  the  Supper.  This  His  image  he  delivered 
over  to  us  with  the  words :  '  This  is  my  body,  this  is  my  blood. 
Do  this  in  remembrance  of  me,  and  shew  by  thanksgiving,  praise 
and  prayer,  that  I,  the  husband  of  your  souls,  have  purchased 
you.'  Wlien  the  father  of  the  family,  at  handing  over  the  ring 
to  his  spouse,  says :  'See  in  this  myself^  he  gives  much  more  than 
if  he  said,  '  See,  this  is  my  ring ;'  yet  he  gives  not  himself 
bodily,  for  he  is,  as  we  have  said,  on  the  point  of  departure. 
HimseK,  however,  he  presents  in  all  his  marital  faithfulness 
and  love,  just  as  if  he  said:  'Thou  shalt  not  be  only  assured  of 
my  faithfulness  and  love  to  thee,  but  also  of  this,  that  I  am 
wholly  thine,  and  therefore  I  give  to  thee  this  ring  as  a  symbol 
and  pledge.'  Thus  Christ,  also,  when  He  was  on  the  point  of 
going  for  us  to  death,  presented  us  the  bread  and  wine  with  the 
words :  This  is  my  body,  and  this  is  my  blood,  although  He  was 
even  then  about  to  withdraw  his  natural  body  from  the  earth, 
and  transplant  it  into  heaven.  Nevertheless,  He  presented  him- 
self to  us  wholly  in  His  mercy  and  faithfulness,  as  if  He  said: 
Now  I  go  for  you  to  death,  and  soon  thereafter  I  shall  again 
depart  from  hence.     Ye  shall  not,  however,  doubt  therefore  of  my 


ZWIKGLI  AND  LUTUEK  ON  THE  LORD'S  SUPPER.  299 

love  and  care  fur  you.  I  am  entirely  yours  ivith  all  that  I  am. 
Ill  testimony  of  it,  I  give  you  the  symbol  of  this  my  sacrifice  and 
of  my  hist  wilL  "When  ye  now,  hy  this  commemorative  Supper, 
see  this  bread  and  this  cup  presented  to  you,  you  are  to  think  of 
me,  that  I  have  given  myself  up  for  you,  and  ye  shall  so  think  of 
me  as  if  you  saiu  me  before  your  eyes.  In  this  manner,  we  really  , 
glorify  the  Supper  of  the  Lord  through  the  presence  of  Christ, 
for,  through  the  contem]ilati()n  of  faith.  He  is  as  present  to  our 
mind  as  the  symbols  of  His  body  crucified  for  us,  and  His  blood 
shed  for  us,  are  present  to  our  senses."  This  view  of  the  sense 
and  significance  of  the  words  of  institution,  as  well  as  of  the 
Supper  itself,  Zwingli  had  obtained  at  a  much  earlier  period*  than 
that  at  which  he  conceived  it  expedient  to  make  them  known.  "  I 
testify  before  God, "  are  his  words,  "  that,  with  His  glory  alone  in 
view,  I  have,  for  several  years,  conversed  in  private  upon  this 
subject  with  many  men  of  learning,  because  I  was  unwilling  to 
spread  anything  abroad  amongst  the  people  inconsiderately  and 
rashly  Nvhich  might  excite  dissension.  But  the  more  I  consulted, 
the  more  I  found  to  concur  with  me  in  opinion.  Often,  too,  have 
I  besought  the  Lord  that  He  would  point  me  out  the  way  in 
which  this  most  important  matter  of  all,  in  the  judgment  of  the 
simple-minded,  might  be  represented  in  a  manner  intelligible  to 
all,  that,  for  the  future,  this  sacred  solemnity  of  the  Church 
"  might  tend  to  edification  and  salvation."  Meanwhile,  Zwingli, 
in  his  sermons,  impressed  upon  his  hearers  with  emphasis  the 
duty  of  seeking  salvation  through  faith  in  Jesus  Christ,  who  died 
for  us,  warning  them  against  applying  to  any  creature  the  vene- 
ration and  worship  which  arc  due  to  God  alone.  The  bread  and 
wine  of  the  Supper  arc  holy  in  the  transaction,  because  through 

•  When  this  view  first  i)rcscntcd  itself  fully  to  Zwinpli's  mind  cannot  be  accu- 
rately ascertained.  It  is  inoliablc  that  he  saw  the  error,  and  rejected  the  doctrine 
of  Transubstantiatif)n  at  the  same  time  with  that  of  the  Adoration  of  the  Saints, 
saint-worship  and  deified  bread  equally  compromising  the  merits  of  Christ,  and 
that  immediate  faith  upon  Him,  by  which  alone  we  can  be  saved.  The  first 
evidence  of  his  change  of  ojiinions  is  contained  in  a  letter  to  his  teacher  and 
friend.  Thomas  Wyttenbach,  of  the  l.'Jth  June  152.3.  That  his  new  view.s,  how- 
ever, had  been,  at  this  time,  completely  developed,  wc  know  from  his  own  con- 
fes.sion  :  "For  a  greater  number  of  years  than  it  is  neccssarv-  here  to  state,  I  have 
held  the  opinion,  which  I  expressed  in  a  letter  to  Alber,  If.th  November  1.524, 
an<l  in  the  Commentark-,  (March  152.5.).  My  intention,  however,  was  not  to 
]iublish  it  to  the  world  witliout  due  consideration.  I've.  &c." 


300      ZWINGLI  AND  LUTHEE  ON  THE  LORD  S  SUPPER 

them  Christ  is  realised  by  the  believing  soul,  but  extraneously 
to  the  transaction  it  is  but  bread  and  wine,  for  Christ  dwells  in 
heaven,  at  the  right  hand  of  the  Father,  but  on  earth,  in  the 
hearts  of  believers,  and  not  in  pyxes."  For  the  rest  he  awaited 
in  pious  resignation  the  right  moment  of  time,  wdien  the  Lord 
should  reveal  this  truth  to  His  people,  by  himself,  or  by  others. 

At  the  time  when  our  Eeformer  had  gained  this  standing-point, 
through  the  course  of  that  zealous  yet  cautious  investigation 
after  truth  peculiar  to  his  mind,  Luther,  under  the  impulse  of  a 
fiery  and  living  faith,  was  striving  to  unwind  himself  from  the 
errors  of  Transiibstantiation.  The  former  was  disgusted  at  the  open 
idolatry  practised  through  the  Sacrament ;  the  latter  found  him- 
self, in  the  first  instance,  hurt  in  his  faith  by  his  change  of  opinions, 
accustomed,  as  his  mind  had  been,  to  the  exaltation  of  the  out- 
ward act  of  the  Sacrament,  a  natural  consequence  of  the  doctrine 
of  Transubstantiation.*  Hence  Luther  inculcated  with  such 
earnestness  faith,-f-  as  a  main  requisite  to  a  blissful  partaking  of 
the  Sacrament,  that,  out  of  the  outward  act  |  {opus  operatmn),  of 
the  Papal  Church,  there  might  be  an  act  of  faith  (opus  operantis), 
a  partaking  of  the  Sacrament  without  faith  being  not  only  value- 

*  Luther  also  allowed  the  adoration  of  the  Sacraments.  "  Let  it  be  free,"  he 
says,  "  to  every  one  to  worship  Christ  in  the  Sacrament  or  not ;  he  neither  sins 
who  does  it,  nor  he  who  does  it  not,  for  Christ  has  not  enjoined  it.  It  is  thus  free 
to  worship  Christ  in  the  Sacrament  or  not,  because  He  will  have  it  free,  and  has 
given  no  command  on  either  side.  Therefore  let  him  worship  who  will,  and  let 
him  worship  not  who  will  not ;  neither  one  nor  other  sins ;  nor  is  there  heresy 
on  either  side.  If  I  may  or  may  not  worship  God  in  the  living  man,  why  not  in 
the  Sacrament,  as  His  body  and  blood  are  certainly  present?" 

■)■  Luther  undoubtedly  had  not  such  clear  ideas  in  reference  to  the  object  to 
which  faith  is  to  be  directed,  and  on  which  it  should  rest,  as  Zwingli  had.  "  By 
the  former,  faith  was  more  an  exalted  pious  disposition  of  the  soul,  sometimes 
leaning  on  what  was  very  mediately  divine." 

X  It  is  remarkable  that  the  two  Reformers  drew  from  the  same  circumstance 
or  transaction  ditferent  conclusions,  and  yet  arrived  at  a  similar  result.  For 
example,  of  the  crucifixion  Luther  says,  "  that  the  outward  transaction  saves 
none;  else  this  most  important  of  all  transactions  had  certainly  saved  the  Pha- 
risees and  the  Roman  soldiers;  their  salvation,  however,  did  not  take  place, 
because  faith  failed  them."  Zwingli  deduces  froni  the  same  event  the  inference, 
that  sensible  handling  and  perception  save  no  one,  else  the  soldiers  who  crucified 
Christ,  and  the  Pharisees  who  had  the  immediate  view  of  that  which  procured 
the  salvation  of  the  world,  had  been  saved.  It  is  the  spiritual  contact  and  con- 
templation by  the  eye  of  faith  which  make  us  partakers  of  the  redemption 
achieved  by  Christ. 


ZWINGLI  AND  LUTHEK  ON  THE  LORDS  SUPPER.  301 

le.ss  but  injurious  to  man,  like  bivail  ami  wine  taken  unseason- 
ably. That,  however,  which  rests  alone  upon  the  outward  partak- 
ing of  the  elements,  and  the  conception  that  there  is  in  them  the 
body  and  blood  of  Christ,  is  not  the  true  faith.  "  If  you,"  writes 
Luther,  "  in  the  trials  which  tlie  devil  puts  you  to,  or,  in  the  hour 
of  death,  were  to  say :  1  have  taken  the  Sacrament,  and  I  believe 
that  it  is  truly  the  body  and  blood  of  Christ,  the  devil  would  rejoin ; 
I  believe  it  too.  Thus  this  your  faith  helps  you  not,  and  the  devil 
has  won,  and  will  trip  up  your  heels,  so  that  there  is  no  help  for  you 
more.  But  if  you  say :  Look,  thou  tyrant,  or  devil,  and  death,  I  have 
received  the  Sacranu^nt,  in  which  my  Lord  Jesus  Christ  truly 
vouchsafes  that  His  body  and  blood  are  mine,  and  that  He  hath 
given  me  all  that  the  M'ords  contain  in  tliom,  then  he  must  flee 
before  you."  "To  the  believer,  then,  this  Sacrament  is  a  sure 
sign  that  He  is  made  one  with  Christ  and  His  Church,  and  that 
Clirist,  together  with  His  life  and  sufferings,  has  become  his  own"* 
Carried  forward  by  His  faith,  Luther  shot  ahead  of  the  papistical 
doctrine  of  Transubstantiation,  it  affording  no  consolation  to  him. 
On  the  other  hand,  he  was  unable  to  free  himself  from  the  con- 
ce])tion  that  Christ,  in  some  incomprehensible  manner,  was 
V)odily  present  in  the  Sacrament,  such  an  idea  being  too  inti- 
mately associated  with  his  peculiar  cast  of  mind,  and  too  much 
entwined  with  his  whole  style  of  thought  and  conception.  Thus 
he  arrived  at  the  doctrine,  "  that  in  the  Sacrament  two  things 
are  ])resented  to  us;  first,  The  body  and  blood  of  our  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  in  bread  and  wine ;  second,  The  great  and  glorious  promise 
which  is  offered  to  eveiy  partaker  of  the  Sacrament,  that  the  body 
of  Christ  has  Ijeen  given  for  us,  and  His  blood  shod  for  us,  for  the 
remis.sion  of  our  sins.  This  view  he  established,  as  the  Papal 
Church  does  the  doctrine  of  Transubstantiation,  with  the  words  of 
institution,  "  This  is  my  body  given  for  you,  this  is  my  blood 
shed  for  you."     He  was,  indeed,  at  times  strongly  tempted  to  go 

•  Luther  and  ZwinRli  here  apreed  almo.st  literally  in  that  whieh  they  hoth 
regarded  as  the  chief  tiling  in  the  Sacrament;  it  was  the  sweetest  consolation  to 
both  that  Christ  had  become  om;-.<.  and  both  admitted  that  the  believer  had  the 
assurance  of  it  in  the  Supper.  At  the  outbreak  of  the  dispute.  Luther,  carried 
away  by  his  passion,  confounded  the  .subsidiary  with  the  main-point,  and  pro- 
secuted a  conception  which,  in  his  opinion,  as  stated  in  the  text,  the  devil  liim- 
self  mipht  hold  with  an  enerjry  and  nn  emphasis  lus  if  life  and  an  salvation 
depended  upon  it. 


802  IDIOSYNCEACIES  OF  THEIR  MINDS. 

beyond  this  view  of  the  significance  of  the  ordinance,  and  to 
behold  in  the  bread  and  wine  symbols  of  the  body  and  blood  of 
Christ;  but,  accustomed  as  devout  monk  to  honour  and  adore 
the  bodily  present  Saviour  in  the  sacrament ;  and,  besides,  over- 
mastered by  an  imagination  which  allowed  him  to  contemplate 
the  spiritual  only  in  the  sensible  form,*  he  found  the  words  of 
institution  according  to  his  interpretation  so  strong  and  power- 
ful, as  to  cause  him  to  say :  "  Avaunt !  to  all  such  temptations." 
"I 'acknowledge," f  he  says,  at  a  later  period,  when  speaking  of 
these  trials,  "  that  if  Dr  Carlstadt,  or  any  one  else,  had  been 
able  to  convince  me  that  a  sacrament  is  nothing  but  bread 
and  wine,  he  had  done  me  a  signal  service.  I  have  suffered 
so  much  vexation  in  regard  to  this  matter,  and  have  so 
wrestled  and  wnriggled  myself  upon  it,  that  I  had  very  gladly 
been  clear  of  it,  for  I  very  well  saw  what  a  great  stroke  I 
could  deal  the  papacy  through  it.  And  I  have  had  two 
who  wrote  to  me  more  cleverly  than  Dr  Carlstadt  upon  it,| 
and  who  did  not  mangle  the  words  either  according  to  their 
own  ideas.  But  I  am  caught,  and  cannot  get  out.  The  text 
is  all  too  powerful  for  me,  and  the  words  will  not  out  of  my 
head.  Yet  this  veiy  day,  if  any  one  were  to  prove  to  me  on  solid 
grounds  that  simple  bread  and  wine  alone  were  there,  I  should 
be  no  longer  so  attacked.  I  am  but  too  inclined  to  this  view 
when  I  feel  the  Adam  within  me."  This  confession,  which 
Luther  made  at  the  outset  of  the  dispute,  gives  us  a  deep  insight 
into  his  heart,  and  explains  his  extreme  sensitiveness  and  irrita- 
bility whenever  this  subject  came  under  discussion;  it  touched 
an  open  wound  in  his  otherwise  great  soul.  These  different 
modes  of  conceiving  and  representing  the  significance  of  the 
Supper,  in  reality  very  nearly  related  to  each  other,  although  in 
the  outward  form,  in  many  respects,  very  different,  result  from 
the  diverse  intellectual  character  of  the  two  Eeformers,  the  basis 
of  faith  being  the  same  in  both.  Zwingli  was  endowed  by  God  both 

*  When  he  prayed  for  his  sick  friend  Melanchthon,  our  Lord  God  "  must  pre- 
serve him."  "  For,"  he  continues,  "  I  threw  him  the  sack  before  the  door,  and 
rubbed  his  ears  with  all  the  promises  of  prayer,  that  must  be  heard." 

t  To  the  very  dear  friends  of  God,  all  Christians  atStrasburg,  15th  December 
1524. 

X  In  my  opinion  these  are  probably  Rhodius  and  Sagan,  who,  as  above  men- 
tioned, are  said  to  have  visited  Lutlier  with  Honius's  letter. 


IDIOSYNCRACIES  OF  THEIR  MINDS.  303 

with  a  fine  appreciating  sense  of  the  divine,  and  a  penetrating  under- 
standing in  regard  to  the  phenomena  of  nature  and  the  rehitions  and 
alfairs  of  life.  These  splendid  endowments  found  food  and  nourish- 
ment which  suited  them  along  the  flowery  path  of  his  youth  and 
education.  On  the  mountain  sunnnits,  where  heaven  and  eartli 
ai-e  parted  by  a  sharp  drawn  line,  the  reflective  soul  finds  every- 
where occasion  to  admire  the  majesty  of  God  outshining  all  the 
works  of  creation,  while  the  iinderstanding  is  sharpened  and  invi- 
gorated by  the  contemplation  of  the  manifold  oly'ects  which  meet 
the  eye  within  the  range  of  vision,  A  profound  and  pensive  intel- 
lect, with  a  predominant  imagination,  are  Luther's  characteristics. 
The  rougher  and  thornier  the  path  of  his  youth  and  education  were, 
the  more  deeply  and  intensely  he  turned  his  inner  glance*  to  the 
mysteries  of  his  own  being,  where  his  imagination  created  a 
world  of  its  own,  which  bore  but  little  resemblance  to  outward 
relations.  As  to  his  eye,  heaven  and  earth  mingled  with  each 
other  in  one  grey  mass  of  fog  and  mist,  his  powerful  imagination 
invested  every  emotion  which  awoke  in  his  soul,  every  thought 
that  arose  there,  in  a  visible  tangible  form. 

*  We  shall  here,  for  the  sake  of  clearness,  present  a  short  summary  of  the 
chief  parallel  events  of  their  lives,  in  order  to  shew  more  distinctly  how  they 
approach  towards  and  diverge  from  each  other. 

Zwingli  and  Luther  were,  as  is  well  known,  bom  within  a  few  weeks  of  each 
other,  Luther  on  Martinmas  1483,  Zwingli  on  1st  January  1484.  Their  parents 
were  pious,  upright  peasants;  Zwingli's,  affluent  and  indulgent  to  their  children  ; 
Luther's,  poor  and  austere.  AYliilst  Zwingli's  teacher,  George  Buenzli,  was  dis- 
tinguished for  learning  and  gentleness  of  disposition,  we  only  know  Luther's 
master  at  Mansfield,  as  a  savage  school-tyrant,  who  flogged  his  pu])il  one  fore- 
noon fifteen  tinies.  Zwingli's  parents  liberally  relieved  their  son  from  all  the 
cares  of  earning  his  livelihood,  Luther  had  to  beg  his  scanty  meal  with  singing. 
Both  excite  admiration  by  their  fine  voices.  Luther's  brings  him  the  means  of 
support  from  widow  Cotta  in  Eisenach,  while  Zwingli's  had  nearly  introduced 
him  to  a  cloister  life.  About  the  year  1502,  both  became  acquainted  with  the 
Scriptures;  Zwingli  in  Basle,  at  the  feet  of  Wyttcnbach,  Luther  in  the  library 
of  Erfurt,  where  he  sees  a  comjjlcte  Bible  for  the  first  time.  About  the  year 
1505.  Zwingli  finds  in  Leo  Jud  a  friend  that  remains  faithful  to  him  during  his 
whole  life,  while  Luther  loses  in  a  terrible  manner  such  an  one  in  his  Alexis, 
which  induces  him  to  seek  a  cloister.  From  1506-1.510  Zwingli,  as  i)ars()n  of 
Glarus,  wrestles  against  the  temptations  of  life,  and  combats  the  corruption  of 
his  country,  while  Luther  suft'ers  under  inward  trials,  an<l  the  malice  of  the 
monks.  Zwingli,  by  the  study  of  the  classics,  pierces  to  a  deeper  ac(|uaintancc 
with  the  Bible,  while  Luther,  by  reading  the  writings  of  the  mystics,  arrives  at 
the  same  result.  In  the  year  1510  Luther,  in  1513  Zwingli,  go  to  Italy,  entliii- 
siastic  advocates  of  the  papacy.     Both  are  surprised  in  the  Milanese  at  finding 


;3()4<  IDIOSYNCEACIES  OF  THEIR  MINDS. 

The  mental  development  of  the  two  gifted  youths,  who  began 
their  studies  at  a  time  when  intellectual  life  moved  in  two  sepa- 
rate currents,  corresponded  also  with  the  very  differently  formed 
impressions  of  their  earlier  years.  The  dry  and  barren  learning 
of  the  schools,  in  the  cultivation  of  which  the  best  spirits  of  the 
middle  ages  exercised  themselves,  had  lost,  with  many,  its  splen- 
dour and  importance,  and  from  Greece  and  Italy  there  arose  the 
light  of  a  better  culture,  in  the  spread  of  the  knowledge  of  the 
dead  languages,  and  of  the  glorious  master-works  of  antiquity. 
God  led  the  son  of  the  Swiss  mountaineer,  the  tender-feeling, 
sharp-witted,  Zwingli,  into  this  school,  which  afforded  his  intellect 
the  requisite  nourishment.  Luther,  the  son  of  the  Saxon  plains,  was 
conducted  by  another  and  a  steeper  path,  that  better  corresponded 
with  his  peculiar  cast  of  mind.  Many  deep-thinking  men  in  Ger- 
many had  already  turned  their  regards  from  the  superficial  train- 
ins  of  the  schools  to  fathom  the  soul,  in  order  to  sound  in  its 
depths  the  sacred  mysteries  of  the  life  in  God  and  the  Saviour. 
And  what  they  saw  and  felt  in  moments  of  spiritual  awakening 
they  set  down  in  deeply-drawn  characters  for  the  instruction  of 
mankind.  God  led  the  miner's  son,  the  ardent  Luther,  into  the 
deep  shafts  and  passages  in  which  these  learned  men  have  depo- 
sited their  treasures,  often,  indeed,  covered  with  a  thick  coating 
'of  dross.  But  both  these  youths  the  Lord  had  destined  to  one 
and  the  same  great  work ;  Zwingli  was  not  to  pitch  his  tent 
in  the  outer  court  of  the  Gentiles,  nor  Luther  to  dissipate  his 
energies  in  dreamy  contemplation  behind  cloister  walls,  and 
in  the  twilight  of  the  mystics.  By  the  mysterious  process 
through  which  God  conducts  the  men  who  seek  Him  to  their 
proper  stations  in  His  kingdom,  he  led  them  both  to  Holy 
Scripture,  to  the  apprehension  of  eternal  truth,  and  to  the  feet  of 

another  ritual  for  the  mass — the  Ambrosian.  Luther,  in  his  journey,  becomes 
acquainted  at  Rome  with  the  thorough  dissoluteness  of  the  lower  classes  of  the 
Roman  clergy.  Zwingli,  in  his  Italian  campaigns,  has  his  eyes  opened  to  the 
total  corruption  of  papal  misgovernment.  In  the  year  1517  both  found  peace 
of  soul  through  faith  on  Jesus  Christ,  and  while  Zwingli,  resolute  to  proclaim 
the  Word  of  God  without  respect  of  human  laws  and  doctrines,  attacks  the  pil- 
grimages and  the  adoration  of  the  Virgin;  Luther,  from  the  same  standing- 
I)oint,  attacks  the  sale  of  Indulgences,  and  without  intending  it,  shakes  the 
papacy  to  its  foundations.  "  When  I  assailed  this  abuse,"  he  wrote  himself 
afterwards,  "  I  was  yet  a  monk,  and  the  most  absurd  Papist  in  the  world,  so 
drunk,  so  drowned  in  Papal  doctrines,  that  had  I  had  the  power,  I  should 
willingly  have  put  all  to  death  who  refused  obedience  to  the  Pope." 


CONTEST  REGARDING  THE  SUPPER.  305 

llim  who  alone  is  tiie  true  teacher.  Thus  the  two  greatest  uu-n 
of  the  time,  the  representatives  of  different  kinds  of  intellect,  and 
(liflerent  directions  of  thought,  stand  Ix'fore  us  with  the  conil)ine(l 
testimony  they  sent  forth, — "  The  AVord  of  (Jt)d  is  the  only  direc- 
tory of  faith  and  practice  ;  in  Christ  alone  is  salvation  to  be 
found," — as  two  bright  examples  of  the  glory  of  divine  teaching, 
and  the  power  of  the  gospel.  The  Christian,  indeed,  siift'ers  a 
pang,  that  one  of  them,  under  the  influence  of  error,  yielded  so 
far  to  the  bent  of  his  natural  disposition,  as  at  times  to  compro- 
mise the  love,  which  is  the  bond  of  perfectness,  towards  his 
brother,  who  stood  on  the  same  foundation  of  faith  as  himself 
Yet  God's  thoughts  are  not  our  thoughts ;  He  allows  the  greatest 
minds  to  be  overtaken  by  some  infirmity,  that  we  may  give  our 
hearts  unreser\'edly  to  Him  who  knew  no  sin,  and  in  whose 
mouth  there  was  no  miile. 


6.  How  THE  Contest  regarding  the  Supper  broke  out,  and 
w^ith  what  reasons  zwingli  rebutted  the  objections  of 
Luther  against  his  doctrine  of  the  Supper. 

Luther  had.  by  his  authority,  and  by  the  ])0wer  of  his  preach- 
ing,, restored  order  at  "Wittenberg,  but  the  authors  of  the  disturb- 
ances had  not  been  converted  from  their  opinions.  The  German 
people,  who  in  many  parts  of  the  country  sighed  under  severe 
oppression,  often  exercised  with  gi-eat  injustice  on  the  part  of  the 
civil  and  spiritual  authorities,  rose,  in  1524?  and  152"),  in  fierce 
insurrection  against  their  tyrants.  The  Zwickau  prophets  took 
])art  in  this  rebellion,  and  the  notorious  Tliomas  Muenzer,  in 
Thuringia  and  Suabia,  exercised  a  very  important  and  baleful 
influence  in  it*  Carlstadt,  too,  gave  himself  up  again  to  his 
former  spirit  of  fanaticism,  and  abandoned,  on  his  own  respon- 
sibility, his  post  as  professor  and  preacher  in  AVittenljei'g,  to 
preach  at  Orlamuenda,  near  Lena,  one  of  "Wittenberg's  affiliated 
churches.  Under  his  influence  the  images  were  here  broken  to 
shivers,  and  thrown  out  of  the  churches,  and  public  worship 
altered  in  accordance  with  his  views.     In  order  to  give  his  opin- 

*  It  cannot  l)c  shewn  that  Carlstadt  took  part  in  the  civil  insurrection.  He 
appears  rather  to  have  contined  his  violence  to  ecclesiastical  affairs. 

U 


806  CONTEST  EEGAEDING  THE  SUPPER. 

ions  a  wider  dissemination,  he  erected,  at  Lena,  a  printing-press, 
from  which  he  issued  a  series  of  small  publications,  to  the  great 
displeasure  of  Luther.  He  had,  in  one  of  these  pieces,  entitled, 
"  Whether  it  can  be  proved,  by  Holy  Scripture,  that  Christ  is 
present  in  the  Sacrament  with  body,  blood,  and  soul,"  delivered 
the  opinion  (1 524),  that  Christ,  at  the  institution  of  the  Supper, 
referred  in  the  words,  "  Take,  eat,"  to  the  bread,  on  the  other 
hand,  to  himself  in  the  words,  "  This  is  my  body."  From  hence 
he  drew  the  conclusion,  that  neither  bread  nor  wine  are  changed 
into  the  body  and  blood  of  Christ,  as  the  papists  teach,  nor  that 
the  body  and  blood  of  Christ  unite  with  the  wine,  as  Luther's 
opinion  was,  but  that  the  bread  and  wine  are  only  symbols  of 
Christ's  broken  body  and  shed  blood,  and  that  the  ordinance  of 
the  Supper  is  a  solemn  commemoration  of  the  body  of  Christ 
given  for  us. 

Luther  expressed  his  just  indignation  at  the  seditious  propen- 
sities of  the  Zwickau  prophets,  and  Carlstadt's  despicable  beha- 
viour;  in  his  work,*  "Against  the  heavenly  prophets,"  and  in  an 
Appendix  to  it,  "  On  Images  and  the  Sacraments,"  he  assailed 
with  great  vehemence  the  view  Carlstadt  had  expressed  on  the 
Supper.  This  gave  rise  to  a  violent  paper-war  betwixt  Luther  and 
Carlstadt.  f    In  the  end,  Carlstadt  was  forced  to  quit  Oriamuenda 

*  Among  other  eccentricities  which  Carlstadt  displayed  is  the  following:  He 
laid  aside  his  ecclesiastical  costume,  strutted  about  in  a  grey  coat  and  felt  hat, 
like  a  peasant  or  artisan,  had  himself  called  neighbour  Andrew,  and  wished  to  be 
subject  to  the  judge  at  Oriamuenda. 

t  Zwingli  writes,  at  a  later  pei'iod,  in  reference  to  the  manner  in  which  Luther 
and  Carlstadt  fought  with  each  other,  to  the  former,  in  the  following  terms:  "Your 
everlasting  complaints,  that  nobody  has  replied  to  what  you  have  written  against 
Carlstadt,  have  forced  me  to  a  perusal  of  your  polemical  writings.  But,  gracious 
heavens,  how  little  that  is  solid  and  well  considered  does  one  find  in  them?  I 
have  only  seen,  in  the  whole  affair,  two  blind  fighters  rushing  into  single  combat. 
Carlstadt,  indeed,  is  on  the  tract  of  tnith,  but  ignorant  of  the  true  significance 
of  the  figures,  he  transposes  and  perverts  the  words  senselessly,  like  some  raw 
recruit,  who  has,  indeed,  courage  and  arms,  but  Avithout  skill,  not  knowing 
on  which  parts  of  the  body  he  must  fasten  his  arms.  Thus,  instead  of  the  har- 
ness, he  binds  the  helmet  on  his  breast,  the  greaves  he  puts  on  his  forehead,  and 
with  the  arm-rings  he  covers  his  legs,  out  of  the  coat  of  mail  he  makes  a  helmet, 
and  out  of  the  helmet  a  quiver,  otit  of  the  javelin  a  bow,  and  out  of  the  bow  an 
arrow.  So  Caidstadt  went  into  battle.  But  you,  too,  though  trained  to  war, 
rush  into  the  arena  without  considei'ation,  and  without  arms,  and  make  him  who 
is  inexperienced  in  the  use  of  his  arms  so  ridiculous  to  all,  by  heaping  upon  him 


CONTEST  REGARDINQ  THE  SUPPEU.  307 

and  the  Saxon  tenitcry,  being  threatened  with  banishment  for  dis- 
obedience.   He  now  directed  his  erring  steps  to  the  south,  wliither 
lus  friend  IVfuenzer  liad  proceeded,  to  take  part  in  the  insurrection 
of  the  peasants  m  Suabia    His  work  upon  tlie  Supper,  which  was 
disseminated  with  great  zeal,  operated  like  a  firebrand  in  Ger- 
many, many  having  already  quarrelled  with  the  Transubstantiatiou 
ol  the  lioman  Catliolic  Church  without  either  adopting  Luther's 
artificial  solution  of  the  difficulty,  or  being  able  to  form  a  more 
satisfactory  one  of  their  own  from  Scripture.     The  strife  upon 
this  subject  came  to  none  more  unseasonably  than  to  the  truly 
pious  Zwiugli,  who  e^-er  treated  what  was  holy  with  a  tender 
reserve,  and  would  have  it  so  treated  bv  others.     He  had  already 
HI  private  gained  so  many  friends  for  his  own  view  as  developed 
above,  and  which  had  its  firm  foundation  in  the  Word  of  God 
that  he  ventured  to  hope  "  it  would  pass  into  the  hearts  of  the 
faithful  without  the  noise  of  angry  warfore.     For  nearly  all  to 
whom  he  opened  it,  breathed  freely,  and  looked  gladly  up  like 
people  returning  from  the  darkness  andsolitudeof  adun^reon  meet- 
ing the  gracious  light  and  kind  friends."     "Now  Oarls'tadt  comes 
fonvard,"  continues  Zwingli,  "with  his  declaration,  a  too  strained 
one,  as  even  his  most  ardent  followers  admit,  after  they  had 
weighed  the  sentiments  of  the  ancients  upon  the  subject  which 
T  produced  to  them.     I  have  also  learned  that  Carlstadt  had 
resolved  to  come  to  Zurich  for  the  puipose  alone  of  talkincr  over 
tins  subject  with  me,  upon  which  he  is  grossly  ignorant.     S^'ome  * 
however,  in  their  dark  fanatical  spirit,  have  so  strongly  dissuaded 
him  trom  a  meeting  with  me,  that  he  has  not  even  saluted  me 
when  he  saw  me.     Nay,  the  medicine  they  have  given  him  has 
operated  in  this  respect  so  powerfully,  that  he  neither  at  Basle 
nor  at  Straslnirg  spoke  a  syllable  with  the  ministers  of  the  Word 
tilion  that  subject.     Those  also  to  whom  I  have  just  referred  aa 
being  filled  with  a  dark  fanatical  spirit,  were  well  acquainted 
with  my  views  of  tlie  Supper,  alth.nigh  they  could  by  no  means 
ho  brought  to  accede  to  them.     No  sooner,  however,  had  they 
heard  of  Carlstadt 's  declaration  of  opinion,  than  they  hasted  to 

eve^-  po88il,le  jibe,  jeer,  nnrl  sally  of  wit,  that  no  eve  could  recognise  him  again 
m  the  forn.  ,n  which  you  paint  him.  Nay.  by  vour  noisv  exapKcrations  and 
invectives,  you  have  set  the  spectators  in  the  dilemma  of  not'  knowing  whether  to 
laugh  at  or  compassionate  the  poor  man." 

•  Grebel  Manz  and  their  friends  above-mentioned. 


808  CONTEST  REGAKDING  THE  SUPPER. 

Basle*  themselves,  brought  his  books  on  their  backs  hither,  and' 
filled  not  only  cities,  towns,  and  villages  with  them,  but  even 
the  hamlets.  The  result,  however,  by  no  means  corresponded  to 
their  expectation,  for  very  few  adopted  the  opinion,  as  I  think, 
deterred  by  the  hardness  and  violence  of  the  interpretation. 
AVhat  should  I  now  do  who  have  to  preach  the  Word  of  God  in 
Zurich?  Although  a  great  part  of  the  brethren  were  agreed,  in 
regard  to  the  main  point,  (for  each  had  for  himself  learned  through 
faith  and  my  preaching  how  unreasonable  it  is  to  look  for  flesh 
and  blood  in  that  which  Christ,  speaking  of  His  body  and  blood, 
has  declared  to  be  spirit  and  life,)  yet  they  withheld  their  consent 
from  so  rash  an  interpretation.  I  say,  what  was  I  to  do,  who  saw 
Carlstadt  thus  running  eagerly  to  the  goal  but  missing  it?  Was 
I  to  repel  the  people  back  once  more  to  their  former  error  against 
my  own  convictions.  I  did  this :  I  began  immediately  to  explain 
the  figurative  meaning  (tropus)  which  lies  in  the  words  of  our 
Lord,  and  I  did  it  with  so  much  success,  that  the  brethren 
comprehended  all  I  had  to  say,  ere  I  was  half  through  with  the 
explanation  I  had  to  make.  When  could  I  have  more  seasonably 
come  forward  with  my  opinion  than  just  then  when  the  subject 
had  been  broached  in  so  dangerous  a  manner?  Nay,  would  it 
have  been  at  all  wise  to  have  kept  silence?" 

To  this  step,  Zwingli  was  in  part  also  induced  by  a  resolution 
of  the  Zurich  Council  which  forbad  the  dissemination  and  read- 
ing of  Carlstadt's  writings.  Although  the  Eeformer  disapproved 
of  such  a  measure  in  itself,  he  had  double  cause  to  find  fault  with 
it  here,  inasmuch  as  it  had  a  tendency  to  suppress  the  truth  along 
with  error.  He  accordingly  expressed  openly  his  disapprobation 
of  it,  and  effected  its  withdrawal.  At  the  same  time,  he  com- 
bated the  error  which  lay  in  Carlstadt's  view,  and  established 
the  truth  by  an  exhibition  of  his  own  opinions.  This  difficult 
task  he  had  not  only  to  perform  in  Zurich,  but  also  elsewhere, 
as  the  contest  so  passionately  entered  into  by  Luther  and  Carl- 
stadt began  to  burst  out  in  various  places.  Thus  the  two 
parsons  of  Eeutlingen,  Matthew  Alber,  who  adhered  to  Liither's 
views,  and  Conrad  Hermann,  who  approved  of  Carlstadt's 
explanation,  desired  to  hold  a  public  disputation  upon  the  sub- 

*  Here  Carlstadt  had  got  some  books  printed. 


CONTEST  KEGAKDING  THE  SUPPEK.  309 

ji'L't,  and  in  this  luainu'r  iiixdlvt'  tlu;  coiuniuuity  in  tlir  dis[)utL'. 
As  soon  as  Zwiugli  lu-ard  ut'  this  intention,  he  wiote  a  letter  to 
Alber,  stating  liis  opinions  at  length,  and  strongly  dissuading 
him  against  a  dispntation.  Zwingli  adjured  Alber  "by  Jesus 
Christ,  the  Judge  of  the  quick  and  the  dead,  (so  strong  was  his 
language,)  to  shew  this  letter  to  none  of  whom  he  did  not  cer- 
tainly know  that  he  was  firm  in  the  faith  on  one  Lord."  The 
letter,  however,  was  widely  circulated  in  Southern  Germany,  in 
Switzerland,  and  in  Alsace,  a  dissemination  which  Zwingli  inde(>d 
himself  aided  by  sending  copies  of  it  to  friends  on  whom  he  had 
reliance,  such  as  Bucer  and  Capito,*  in  Strasburg,  Qi^colampad  in 
Basle,  &c.  They  all  expressed  their  decided  approval  of  the 
contents.  Intelligence  of  Zwingli's  views  upon  the  sacrament 
reached  Luther  also,  who,  however,  had  not  the  least  idea  that 
the  Zurich  lieformer  had  gained  these  by  an  independent  study 
of  the  "Word  of  God,  or  that  they  differed  in  any  respect  from 
( 'arlstadt's.  Under  this  impression,  he  wrote  on  the  2Lst  Decem- 
ber 1524',  to  Amsdorf:  "  Carlstadt's  poison  is  spreading  fast. 
Already  Z^vangli  and  Leo  Jud  have  adopted  his  opinions." 
Carlstadt  now  occupied  in  Luther's  heated  imagination  the  same 
l)Osition  to  Zwingli  and  his  like-minded  friends  in  Southern 
Cierniany,  as  Thomas  Muenzer  did  to  the  insurrectionary  peasants 
in  Thuringia  anil  Suabia.  Had  Luther  exercised  but  a  small 
degree  of  self-c<jntrol,  he  would  have  soon  perceived  how  gi'ound- 
less  his  suspicions  were,  and  that  Zwingli's  views  of  the  Supper 
had  just  as  little  origin  in  the  fanaticism  of  the  heavenly  prophets 
as  that  spring  flowers  derive  their  blossoms  from  wintiy  storms. 

*  Cajtito  wrote  (January  1525)  to  Zwingli:  "  Buccr  is  wholly  at  one  with 
you  in  the  matter  of  the  Supper,  althon};li  he  was  at  tirst  more  devoted  to 
I^uther's  view  than  I  could  have  expected  in  a  man  of  such  penetration,  but  it 
may  be,  he  had  the  circumstances  of  the  times  more  in  his  eye  than  the  cause  of 
truth."  Lutlier  received  his  information  of  theSwissIiefonnation,  and  the  course 
it  took,  mostly  from  travelling  students,  who  exaggerated  all,  and  represented 
many  things  falsely.  Is(dated  infringements  of  the  laws  of  fasting,  and  isolated 
iconoclastic  excesses  communicated  by  such  tale-bearers,  were  generally  regarded 
at  Wittenberg  as  things  approved  of  by  Zwingli.  and  severely  censured,  as  is 
very  evident  from  Melanditiion's  letters  to  llunimclberger  of  Kavensburg,  and  to 
Hess  in  Silesia.  Zwingli's  itnlependent  standing,  and  his  great  merits  in  the 
work  of  the  Keformation,  were  unknown  to  Luther  and  his  friends  at  Witten- 
berg; they  weened  the  Swiss  Keform;iti>>n  was  but  a  distortion  of  the  light  that 
beamed  from  Wittenberg. 


3  ]  0  CONTEST  EEGARDING  THE  SUPPEK. 

Nor  did  they  know  that  this  cahii  and  temperate  champion  of 
the  faith  was  to  all  insurrectionists,  to  nse  his  own  words  on 
the  subject,  "  as  favourable  as  to  the  devil."  But  instead  of 
confining  himself  to  a  calm  examination  of  the  subject  in  the 
clear  light  of  truth,  he  gave  full  rein  to  the  fury  of  a  fancy 
enkindled  by  passion,  and  falsely  attributed  to  Zwingli  and  his 
friends*  opinions,  motives,  and  qualities  of  soul,  which  were  as 
far  from  him  as  midnight  darkness  is  from  the  noontide  light. 
Thus  Luther  never  got  free  of  the  mistake  that  Zwingli  denied 
the  presence  of  Christ  in  the  Supper,  while  the  latter  distinctly 
says :  "  That  he  regards  the  Lord's  Supper  without  the  presence 
of  Christ  in  it  as  an  enormity,  before  which  every  Christian  must 
shudder." -f-  But,  according  to  him,  Christ,  who  has  all  life  in 
himself,  and  gives  life  to  all  who  believe  on  Him,  is  not  present 
in  the  lifeless  bread,  but  in  the  believing  soul. 

Keeping,  then,  the  grounds  in  view,  with  which  Luther  com- 
bated Zwingli's  view,  and  those  with  which  the  latter  defended 
himself,  let  us,  for  the  sake  of  clearness,  represent  them  both  as 
delivering  their  sentiments  in  their  own  words : — 

Luther:  The  sixth  chapter  of  the  gospel  of  John,  on  which 
you  build  your  view  of  the  holy  Supper,  speaks  not  of  this 
sacrament  at  all;  why  do  you  refer  to  it? 

Zwinrjli :  For  this  reason :  you  draw  into  the  sacrament  material 
flesh  and  blood.  It  is  this  very  passage  which  gives  us  a  solu- 
tion of  the  bodily  eating  of  the  flesh  and  blood  of  Christ,  by  the 
statement  which  it  makes,  "  that  it  profiteth  nothing."  As 
you,  on  the  other  hand,  make  this  corporeal  partaking  essential 
to  the  sacrament,  how  could  I  better  answer  the  error  than  in  the 
words  of  Christ  himself,  with  which  he  corrects  in  his  disciples 
the  veiy  same  error?  Christ  teaches  here  the  gospel;  the  Jews 
and  his  disciples  were  led  astray  by  his  words,  and  stumbled 
at  corjDoreal  flesh-eating.  If  now  in  the  sacrament  any  one  fall 
erroneously  upon  the  idea  of  eating  material  flesh,  the  antidote 
for  this  error  is  to  be  sought  in  the  place  where  it  was  first  grown. 

Luther:  Wlien  Christ,  however,  says,  John  vi.,  "The  flesh 
profiteth  nothing,"  He  is  not  to  l)e  understood  as  speaking  of  His 

*  To  these  belonged,  besides  his  colleagues  in  Zurich,  CEcolanipad  in  Basle, 
and  Bucer  and  Capito  in  Strasburg. 

t  See  Zwingli's  letters  to  Martin  Bucer  of  12th  February  1.5.31. 


CONTEST  KEGAEDINU  THE  SUPPER.  .'ill 

own  tles;h,  but  ul'  the  luiture  aiul  iiitinnity  of  tlcsh  generally,  as 
iu  Isaiah  xl.  6,  "  All  tlesh  is  grass."  Christ's  meaning  is,  that 
carnal  undei'stamling  ])r()fiteth  nothing,  He  by  no  means  saying, 
"  My  Hesh  protiteth  nothing;"  for  how  could  he  mean  this,  since 
it  is  by  it  we  are  redeemed? 

Zwhigli:  It  is  true,  in  the  first  place,  that  carnal  understand- 
ing protiteth  nothing.  On  the  contrary,  it  is  hurtful.  Christ 
however  is  not  here  speaking  of  carnal  understanding,  as  you 
maintain;  for  by  , 'speaking  of  carnal  understanding  in  the  bad 
sense.  He  M-ould  not  have  replied  to  the  doubts  and  objections 
of  the  disciples,  which  had  reference  to  corporeal  eating.  Hence 
the  answer  (»f  Christ  must  regard  the  corporeal  eating  of  His  flesh 
in  .such  a  manner  as  to  remove  these  doubts  and  objections;  for 
if  nut,  tlien  He  has  not  corrected  their  misconception  at  all,  but 
lias  begun  a  new  discourse  about  carnal  understanding,  which 
is  contrary  to  His  custom,  which  ever  is  to  resolve  doubts,  and 
to  explain  His  misunderstood  words.  Moreover,  the  narrative 
itself  tells  us  very  distinctly  that  Christ  did  reply  to  the  mur- 
murs which  His  disciples  raised  in  regard  to  the  bodily  eating  of 
His  flesh.  For  it  runs  thus :  "  A\nien  Jesus  knew  in  himself  that 
his  disciples  murmured  at  it,  he  said  unto  them,"  &c.  These 
words  plainly  shew  that  He  is  about  to  resolve  that  point,  which 
caused  them  difficulty.  Farther,  the  succeeding  words  shew 
that  he  continues  to  speak  of  the  former  subject  of  discourse, 
and  abides  by  it,  "  Therefore  said  I  unto  you,  that  no  man  can 
come  unto  me  except  it  were  given  unto  him  of  my  Father." 
For  He  thrice  at  least  repeats  the  sense  of  these  words.  In  short, 
the  point  in  dispute  was  the  eating  of  His  flesh,  of  which  Christ 
says  "  that  it  profiteth  nothing,"  as  they  understood  it.  But  in 
the  second  place,  that  Christ  docs  not  say  my  flesh,  but  simply 
the  flesh,  can  create  no  misunderstanding,  for  His  language  had 
reference  to  no  other  flesh  but  His  own.  Kor  does  He  say  my 
Spirit  it  is  which  quickens,  but  simply  the  Spirit  that  quickenetk 
But  every  believer  understands  that  He  is  here  speaking  of  His 
S])irit.  although  He  does  not  expressly  say  viy  Spirit.  In  the 
third  place,  the  flesh  of  Christ  profits  us  much,  for  it  was  cruci- 
fied for  us.  Tlie  Jews  and  the  disciples,  however,  would  not 
rightly  understand  this,  refen-ing  what  He  said  to  coqjoreal  eat- 
ing.    Theretnre  Christ  says  my  tlesh  eaten  profits  nothing,  but 


312  CONTEST  REGAEDING  THE  SUPPEE. 

crucified  it  Lrings  us  the  greatest  good  which  the  history  of  mau 
has  ever  witnessed. 

Luther:  The  words  of  the  institution  are,  "This  is  my  hody; 
this  is  my  blood;"  and  these  words  we  must  believe,  for  he  who 
believes  not  every  word  that  Christ  has  spoken  will  be  damned. 

Zivingli:  This  is  true,  but  we  must  first  see  that  we  rightly 
understand  tlie  sense  of  Christ's  words.  For  to  misunderstand 
Christ's  words,  and  to  build  our  faith  on  this  misconception,  is 
not  believing  Christ's  words,  but  our  own  misunderstanding  of 
them.  It  is  well  said,  all  the  words  of  God  are  to  be  believed 
without  reserve,  but  first  of  all  we  must  understand  the  words 
ere  we  believe  them.  Else  through  the  not  understanding  of 
them  we  deceive  ourselves,  while  we  think  to  maintain  our  mis- 
understanding by  crying  out,  "  We  are  to  believe  God's  word." 
We  must  therefore  seek  to  comprehend  rightly  the  words  of  insti- 
tution, by  comparing  them  with  such  passages  as,  "the  flesh 
profiteth  nothing;"  "the  field  is  the  world;"  "  John  is  Elias ; " 
"  the  rock  was  Christ."  Then  we  shall  find  that  they  express  a 
figure,  for  "  this  signifies  my  body,"  or  "  this  is  the  symbol  of  my 
body,"  as  which  they  must  be  understood. 

Luther:  I  will  have  no  "figuratising"*  of  the  word  of  God; 
we  must  take  Christ's  words  in  their  plain  natural  sense,  "  this 
is  my  body." 

Zwingli:  Then  it  follows  that  the  bread  is  changed  into  the 
very  body  of  Christ.  The  Eoman  Pope  then  is  right  in  his  doc- 
trine of  Transubstantiation,  and  Paul  is  wrong  when  he  says, 
1  Cor.  X.  17,  "We  are  all  partakers  of  that  one  bread,"  here  call- 
ing that  bread  which  is  in  reality  the  body  of  Christ. 

Luther:  The  words  of  Christ  are  not  to  be  understood  as 
implying  that  the  bread  is  changed  into  the  substance  of  the 
body  of  Christ,  but  that  while  we  bless  the  bread  the  body  of 
Christ  unites  with  the  consecrated  bread,  and  while  we  bless  the 
cup  the  blood  of  Christ  unites  with  the  wine.     Hence  Paul,  1 


*  "  Figuratising,"  (Zeiclielei,)  Luther  accused  fficolamiiad  of,  because  he 
explained  the  words  of  institution  to  be,  The  bread  is  afiijure  of  my  body,  follow- 
ing Tertullian  in  this.  Zwingli,  on  the  other  hand,  explained  them,  The  bread 
signifies  my  bod}',  following  here,  as  his  authority,  Ambrosius.  Luther  accused 
him  of  "figuratising."  CEcolampad  and  Zwingli,  however,  are  so  much  at  one  in 
their  views  of  the  Supper,  that  the  one  often  uses  the  phraseology  of  the  other. 


CONTEST  REGARDING  THE  SUPPER.  313 

Cor.  X.  16,  calls  the  consecrated  cup  the  coiuiiiuniou  ol"  the  bluud 
of  Christ,  and  the  bread  broken  the  communion  of  the  body  of 
Christ. 

Zwingli:  But  in  the  tir.st  place,  you  nni.st  nut  translate  "  tlic 
cup  of  blessing"  in  the  passage  quoted,  but  "the  cuj)  of  thanks- 
giving," for  the  Greek  words,  suXoyia  and  euXoyilv*  signify  thanks- 
irivinjz,  or  to  u'ive  thanks,  and  not  to  bless  or  consecrate.     In  like 
manner,  the  place  in  Psalm  cxiii.  2,  where  the  same  word  occurs, 
ought  not  to  be  rendered,  "  Blessed  be  the  name  of  the  Lord,"  but, 
the  Lord's  name  is  to  be  })raised,  or  given  thanks  to.     The  word 
communion  is  here  taken  for  comnmnity  or  congregation.    Hence 
this  is  the  meaning  of  the  words:  The  cup  of  jn-aise  or  thanks- 
giving with  which  we  give  Thee  praise  or  thanks,  or  which  we 
drink  with  thanksgiving,  is  it  not  the  connnunion  of  the  body  of 
Christ?     For  we  are  all  one  l)read  and  one  body,  since  we  all 
are  partakers  of  one  bread  with  one  another.     Paul  Avill  in  these 
words  turn  the  Christians  at  Corinth  from  idolatrous  worship  and 
sacrifice,   and  he  propounds   this  doctrine  to  them :    "  Ye  are 
another  connnunity  than  that  ye  should  eat  in  the  community  of 
idolaters ;  for  you  are  the  conmmnity  of  the  body  and  blood  of 
Christ.     ^Mlen  ye  then  take  the  sacrament,  and  eat  and  drink 
with  one  another,  ye  shew  that  ye  are  one  body  and  one  blood;" 
to  wit,  the  body  of  the  Church  manifesting  itself  through  faith 
on  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  who  gave  his  body  and  his  blood  for 
them.    Now  Paid  calls  the  believers  the  community  or  communion 
of  the   blood  of  Christ,  as  may  be  clearly  deduced  from  the 
words,  "for  we  being  many  are  one  l)read  and  one  body,  for  we 
are  all  partakers  of  that  one  bread."     ]\Iark  how  plainly  he  calls 
us  one  bread  and  one  body,  for  the  reason  that  we  eat  together  of 
one  bread.     This  is  the  true  sense  of  the  passage.-}*     Moreover,  if 
the  words,  "  this  is  my  body,"  are  not  to  be  understood,  as  you 
admit,  in  the  sense  that  the  bread  is  changed  into  the  real  body 
of  Christ,  it  is  evident  they  are  not  to  be  taken  in  their  plain 

*  Sec  Lucrkc's  Commentary  on  Jolin,  Vol.  ii.,  jiapc  62.  tuXoytin  iind  ivxtpir'ruv 
are  copnate  expressions,  which  were  both  eniiii<)ye<l  in  tlie  usual  Jewish  thanks- 
givings before  meals,  ,^^^a  ;  liXoyiJ?  relates  more  to  the  external  form  of  it, 
while  I i;t;«^(«-Tir»  expresses  more  the  contents.  The  exegesis  of  this  distinguished 
Lutheran  doctor  accordingly  confirms  Zwingli's  idea. 

t  Luther  had  before  this  explained  and  commented  on  ibis  i>assage  in  the 
sense  of  Zwingli  in  his  ••  Sermon  upon  the  solemn  Sacrament  of  (he  IkhIv  and 
Mood  of  Chrii-t." 


314  CONTEST  EEGARDING  THE  SUPPER. 

and  natural  sense.  What  then,  I  pray  you,  is  their  meaning, 
in  your  opinion  ? 

Luther  :  They  signify  the  bread  and  they  signify  the  body  of 
Christ  at  once  in  the  sense,  "  This  is  bread  and  this  is  the  body 
of  Christ,  or  in  the  bread  is  the  body  of  Christ." 

Zivingli  :  Thus  the  words  of  our  Lord  are  not  plain  and  simple, 
but  are  to  be  understood  in  a  twofold  sense,  if  they  designate 
bread  and  the  body  of  Christ.  If  bread  remains  bread,  and  if 
in  the  bread  the  body  of  Christ  is  partaken  of,  then  they  are  not 
taken  in  their  plain  natural  sense,  but  they  form  what  is  called  a 
synecdoche.*  For  Christ  did  not  say,  "in  the  bread  is  my  body," 
but  He  said,  "  bread  is  my  body."  Do  you  see,  dear  Luther, 
how  you  yourself  depart  from  the  plain  and  natural  signification 
of  the  words,  and  declare  them  to  contain  a  figure  of  speech  ? 
What  reasonable  ground  have  you  now  to  set  up  against  the 
view  that  they  ought  to  be  understood  as  a  conditional  or 
figurative  form  of  speech,  seeing  that  you  yourself  maintain  them 
to  be  a  synecdoche,  and  thus  figurative  ? 

Luther:  The  bread  is  bread,  and  at  the  same  time  also  the  body 
of  Christ ;  both  the  bread  and  the  body  of  Christ  are  partaken  of 
in  this  sacrament  in  a  wonderful  and  to  us  inexplicable  manner. 

Zwingli  :  Christ  called  upon  the  Jews  to  believe  Him  for  the 
very  works'  sake,  if  not  otherwise ;  for  the  wonders  were  done  so 
openly,  that  none  could  deny  them.  Shew  us  then  here  the 
wonder,  that  we  may  see  and  believe  it.  For  Christ  has  before- 
hand prophesied,  "For  there  shall  arise  false  Christs  and  false 
prophets,  and  shall  shew  great  signs  and  wonders  ;  insomuch, 
that  if  it  were  possible,  they  shall  deceive  the  very  elect."  If 
then  we  are  to  be  cautious  in  respect  of  wonders,  even  where 
they  are  actually  wi'ought,  how  much  more  in  respect  of  those 
that  are  not  done  at  all,  and  that  are  nowhere  in  the  Word  of 
God  given  out  as  such. 

Luther :  The  body  of  Christ  is  not  partaken  of  in  a  gross 
or  sensible  manner,  but  in  a  way  known  to  Christ  alone. 

Zwmgli  :  Yet  it  must  be  partaken  of  in  a  very  gross  and 
carnal  manner,  if  the  words  are  to  be  understood  in  their  plain 
and  natural  sense.     For  in  this  sense  they  are :  this  bread  is  this 

*  This  figure  of  .spcei'h  Luther  employed  very  often,  whether  it  suited  or  not, 
while  he  censured  tropes  used  by  his  opponents,  in  the  strongest  manner.  Synec- 
doche is  the  trope  according  to  which  a  part  is  taken  ibr  the  whole. 


CONTEST  REGARDING  THE  SUPPER.  315 

my  body  giveu  for  you.  Now  it  is  a  gross  body,  a  body  covered 
with  wounds  and  strokes  that  has  been  given  for  us,  and 
consequently,  it  is  this  body  which  must  be  partaken  of  by 
us,  if  the  words  are  to  be  taken  in  tlieir  plain,  obvious  and  natural 
sense;  or,  if  not,  please  to  shew  us,  by  passages  from  Holy 
Scripture,  in  what  other  way  He  is  to  be  partaken  of? 

Luther  :  The  Ijody  of  Christ  is  everywhere,  for  He  governs  and 
tills  all  things. 

Zicingli :  Then  the  angel  proclaimed  to  the  women  an  untruth 
when  he  told  them,  "  He  is  not  here,  but  is  risen."  And  Christ, 
who  is  the  truth  itself,  has  spoken  what  is  untrue,  for  he 
repeatedly  assured  his  disciples  he  would  be  no  more  in  this 
world,  that  is  in  his  humanity. 

Luther:  The  humanity  of  Christ  is  everyAvhere  present,  and 
fills  all  things  as  wheat  tills  a  sack,  and  He  is  also  in  a  peculiar 
manner  present  in  this  sacrament,  that  we  may  know  where  to 
find  him. 

Ziuingli :  The  assertion  that  the  body  of  Christ  fills  all  things 
is  opposed  to  the  words  of  the  angel,  and  were  it  true,  would 
destroy  the  reality  of  His  ascension  and  make  it  a  deception. 
The  assertion,  then,  is  an  absurd  one,  which  is  entirely  coined  out 
of  your  own  brain,  and  contradicted  by  the  "smtten  Word.  In 
respect  of  the  second  part  of  your  reply,  it  is  contradicted  by 
what  Christ  says  in  respect  of  the  time  in  which  we  live,  that  is 
to  say  the  interval  between  his  ascension  to  heaven  and  the  day 
of  judgment,  Matt.  xxiv.  26-27.  "  \\lierefore,  if  they  shall  say 
unto  you,  Behold,  he  is  in  the  desert ;  go  not  forth :  behold,  he  is 
in  the  secret  chambers ;  believe  it  not.  For  as  the  lightning 
Cometh  out  of  the  east,  and  shineth  even  unto  the  west ;  so  shall 
also  the  coming  of  the  Son  of  man  be."  It  is  also  in  opposition 
to  the  articles  of  the  Christian  creed,  "  He  is  ascended  to  heaven, 
where  lie  sits  at  the  right  hand  of  God,  the  Father,  from  whence 
also  he  shall  come  to  judge  the  world,"»i:c.  Finally,  it  is  at  variance 
with  the  words  of  Christ,  Matt.  xx\'i.  64?,  "  Hereafter  shall  ye 
see  the  Son  of  man  sitting  at  the  right  hand  of  power,"  &C.  Lo  ! 
the  Son  of  man  sits  at  the  right  hand  of  God,  and  from  thence 
reveals  His  power  and  glory  from  this  time  forward,  as  Hr  him- 
self says.  And  from  \\\\^  time  forward  we  are  not  to  .seek  for  Him 
anywhere  else,  but  at  the  right  hand  ol'  the  Father. 


SIG  CONTEST  EEGAEDING  THE  SUPPEIl. 

Luther:  What  we  assert  does  all  take  place  in  a  manner 
invisible,  for  Christ  does  not  descend  to  us  and  again  ascend  to 
heaven  by  a  ladder  or  by  a  stair. 

Zwingli:  It  is,  however,  contradicted  by  the  words  of  the 
angel.  Acts  i.  11 :  "This  same  Jesus  which  is  taken  up  from  you 
into  heaven,  shall  so  come  in  like  manner  as  ye  have  seen  Him 
go  into  heaven!' 

Luther :  Yes,  so  He  will  come  to  judgment.  But  this  passage 
has  no  reference  to  His  presence  in  the  Supper. 

Zwingli:  Holy  Scrij)ture  only  teaches  that  He  will  come  a 
second  time  to  judgment,  and  forbids  us  to  seek  for  Him  anywhere 
but  in  heaven,  at  the  Father's  right  hand.  Nay,  Christ  calls 
those  false  prophets  who  shall  point  to  Him  as  here  or  as  there, 
and  says,  "from  henceforth  ye  shall  see  the  Son  of  man  sitting  at 
the  right  hand  of  power."  In  this  time,  which  he  designates  with 
the  words  "  from  henceforth,"  we  are  now  living.  Therefore,  we 
will  contemplate  Him  there  where  he  is.  For  wherefore  should 
He  unite  His  natural  body  with  the  bread  in  the  Supper  ? 

Luther:  That  it  may  confirm  and  assure  our  hearts  and 
faith. 

Z'wingli:  It  is  the  Spirit,  as  Christ  himself  tells  us,  that 
quickens,  the  flesh  profiteth  nothing.  And  this  Spirit  is,  accord- 
ing to  His  promise,  to  abide  with  us,  and  teach  us  what  we  are  to 
si)eak,  so  that  we  require  to  take  no  thought  what  to  say.  Matt. 
X.  19. 

Luther :  By  the  corporeal  eating,  the  remission  of  sins  is  in 
part  given  to  us. 

Zwingli :  That  Christ  by  his  death  has  atoned  for  our  sins, 
having  become  a  curse  for  us,  is  a  truth  so  oft  repeated  in  Scripture, 
that  it  is  not  necessary  here  particularly  to  state  it.  But  if  sins 
be  forgiven  by  the  natural  partaking  of  the  body  of  Christ,  the 
sins  of  the  disciples  would  have  been  already  pardoned  at  the 
Supper.  In  this  case,  the  blood  of  Christ  shed  for  us  would  not 
alone  cleanse  us  from  all  sin,  as  the  apostle  John  assures  us  in  his 
1st  Epistle,  chap.  i.  ver.  7,  but  the  draught  of  wine  at  the  Supper 
would  effect  this  purpose  also.  For  what  reason  then  did  Christ 
die  on  the  cross?  Or,  are  there  two  paths  to  justification,  one  by 
faith  and  another  by  the  corporeal  partaking  of  the  body  and  blood 
of  Christ?  Into  what  an  abyss  of  confusion  do  we  plunge  ourselves, 


CONTEST  REGARDING  THE  SUPPER.  317 

whoii  we    leave   the   W..nl   ,,f   Cod,  and  indulge    in   uur  own 
idle  imaginations  ? 

Luther:  In  the  bread  the  very  thing  is  presented  to  us  which 
is  proclaimed  by  the  preaching  of  the  Word. 

ZwingU:  But  what  are  we  to  make  of  such  passages  as,  "He 
who  believeth  on  me  hath  everlasting  life,"  "No  man  cometli 
unto  me  except  my  Father  draw  him."  If  a  man  can  really 
give  the  salvation  which  he  preaches  in  so  substantial  a  form  as 
this,  why  do  we  not  make  those  who  hear  the  gospel,  l)ut  who 
believe  it  not,  even  against  their  will,  partakers  of  the  diuu..ht 
which  IS  bitter  indeed  to  them,  but  of  healing  power  ?  ^ 

Luther:  You  are  so  obtuse  and  so  unspiritual  that  you  com- 
prehend nothing  at  all  of  these  high  things,  which  must  be 
spiritually  understood.  It  is  those  only  who  believe  who  partake 
of  the  body  of  Christ  naturally. 

Zfngli:  Yet  we  believe,  and  yet  do  not  partake  of  the  b<,dv 
of  Christ  in  a  natural  manner. 

L^^ther:  We  must  believe  that  we  partake  in  this  Sacrament 
of  the  body  of  Christ,  and  they  who  believe  this,  they  partake  of  it 
Zmngh:  Take  care  of  making  a  dangerous  sport  of  faith,  now 
attaching  one  sense  to  it,  now  another,  according  as  it  "suits  vour 
purpose.     Is  not  saving  faith  this :  to  beUeve  that  Jesus  Christ  is 
the  Son  of  God.  and  to  place  our  trust  alone  in  Him?     Whv  con 
found   so   dishonestly   a    .sound    faith    in  Christ  with   lu.tions 
entirely  contrary  to  the  language  and  spirit  of  Scripture?     Is 
there  m  the  whole  Bible  the  slightest  intimation  that  we  are  to 
believe  that  the  body  and  blood  of  Christ  are  to  be  partaken  of 
naturally  united  ^vith  the  brea.l?     Wliat  apostle  has  ever  said- 
N\  e  believe  that  we  have  eaten  or  drunk  thee  ?"     Have  not  all 
with  one  coiLsent  confessed:  We  believe  that  thou  art  Chiist  the 
Son  of  the  living  God?     You,  however,  would  perfonn  a  certain 
jugglcy  before  the  eyes  of  the  simple-minded,  and  vou  screen  and 
defend  your  vain  conceit  under  th.-  lu.lv  name  of  faith      And  you 
stigmatise  us  with  the  names  of  heretics,  false  teachers,  and  unbe- 
lievei-s,  for  not  accpting  this  vain  conceit  of  yours    because  we 
have  learnt  something  very^  different  from  the  Word  of  (Jo.l    We 
however  set  our  confidence  in  God  through  Jesus  Clirist  know- 
ing tliat  this  huth  alone  .saves  us,  and  not  vour  silly  dreamintr 
Por  nowhere  do  we  leani  from  the  Wonl  of  God  that  Christ  is 


/ 


318  CONTEST  REGAKDING  THE  SUPPER. 

corporeally  partaken  of  in  the  Supper,  but  most  surely  we  learn 
that  we  are  to  feed  upon  Him  in  the  sense  of  believing  on  Him, 
John  vi.  May  God  grant  you  grace  better  to  know  Him  and 
His  Word,  Amen. 

These  are  the  chief  objections  which  were  made  by  Luther 
against  Zwingli's  views,  which  the  latter  triumphantly  repelled, 
with  arms  borrowed  from  the  chamber  of  God's  Word.  The  dis- 
pute, indeed,  branched  itself  out  into  various  questions,  some 
more  nearly,  some  but  very  distantly,  connected  with  the  Sacra- 
ment, as,  for  example,  the  relation  to  each  other  of  the  two  natures 
in  Christ.  As  it  is  impossible  for  us  to  pursue  the  debate  into  the 
ramifications  into  which  it  spread,  we  abstain  from  entering  farther 
into  this  question  here.  Zwingli,  making  a  complete  refutation 
of  Luther's  view  by  the  Word  of  God,  and  establishing  His  own 
upon  it,  his  opponent  became  more  and  more  pressed  to  make  use 
of  those  arguments  which  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  have 
advanced  in  defence  of  Transubstantiation.  From  this  point  of 
view,  Luther  ascribed  to  the  Sacraments  an  importance  in  dia- 
metric opposition  to  his  earlier  statements,  and  which  not  a  little 
jeopardised  the  doctrine  of  justification  by  faith.  If  he  formerly 
taught,  "  Before  God  we  have  quite  enough  to  do  to  believe  the 
gospel ;  but  now  He  will  have  us  to  serve  men,  and  to  make  a 
profession  of  the  faith  which  we  bear  in  our  hearts  by  some  out- 
ward signs  before  the  world,"  he  now  mounted  to  the  thoroughly 
papistical  assertion,  "  When  I  present  to  you  the  bread,  I  present 
to  you  God  with  all  his  gifts."*  He  compared  now  the  Sacra- 
ment to  "  the  sun,"  which  daily  rises,  and  describes  its  circuit  in 
the  heavens,  remaining  ever  the  same  sun.  Immovable  and 
unchanged,  w^hether  man  see  and  feel  it  or  not,  the  same  to  the 
blind,  or  to  him  that  closes  the  window,  so  that  it  neither  shines 
upon,  nor  warms  him,  so  also  the  Sacraments,  when  celebrated 
according  to  the  Word  of  God,  are  in  their  nature  complete  and 
perfect,  and  saving  works  of  God.  In  contrast  with  this  com- 
parison, which  ascribes  to  the  Sacrament  far  too  high  a  position  and 
importance,  to  the  detriment  of  the  glory  of  Christ,  Zwingli  illus- 
trated the  position  of  the  Redeemer,  exalted  to  the  right  hand  of 
God,  by  the  same  figure.     "  Consider,"  says  he,  "  the  sun,  which, 

*  You  may  now,  then,  cries  Zwingli  to  him  on  this,  make  yourself  the  admin- 
istrator of  all  the  gifts  of  Goil,  as  the  Pope  has  done. 


CONTEST  KEGARDINO  THE  SUPPER.  iW.) 

bein"  a  limited  bodv,  is  not  in  two  places  at  once.  Yet  it 
enlightens  the  whole  earth,  so  that  Indian  and  Spaniard,  jSIus- 
covite  and  Moor,  behold  it,  althongh  none  of  these  lands  or 
peoples  are  in  contact  with  the  sun's  disc.  Thus,  the  Sun  of 
Highteousness,  Jesus  Christ,  real  God  and  man,  is,  with  the 
splendour  and  glory  of  His  divine  power  and  nature,  everywhere 
])resent.  On  the  other  hand,  the  body  of  His  humanity  is  only 
in  one  place,  at  the  right  of  the  leather,  but  yet  He  is  everywhere 
gazed  on,  and  contemplated  by  the  eye  of  the  soul  and  faith.  He  is 
our  satisfaction,  although  He  is  but  in  one  place,  namely,  in  heaven. 
Xor  shall  we  wish  Him  down  as  little  as  we  should  desire  to  draw 
the  sun  to  the  earth.  There  above,  at  the  right  hand  of  the 
Majesty  on  high,  He  sits  enthroned  in  glory,  casting  down  upon 
us  the  beams  of  His  grace,  and  disseminating  upon  those  who  are 
round  about  Him  the  rays  of  light,  joy,  and  bliss." 

Luther  allowed  himself  so  far  to  be  carried  away  by  the  false 
view  he  had  once  adopted  as  to  make  the  assertion  :  "  Although 
a  knave,  or  an  unbeliever,  take  or  give  the  Sacrament,  he  takes 
the  right  Sacrament,  that  is,  Christ's  body  and  blood,  just  the 
same  as  if  he  acted  most  piously."  To  this  Zwingli  answered, 
"  Christ  says,  He  who  eateth  my  flesh  and  drinketli  my  blood 
abides  in  Me,  and  I  in  him.  None  would  be  bold  enough  to 
maintain  that  a  knave,  or  an  unbeliever,  is  in  Christ,  and  Christ 
in  him,  which  yet,  according  to  your  statement,  would  be  true. 
It  is  certain  that  the  impious  partake  of  the  Sacrament  in  the 
symbols  of  the  body  and  blood  of  Christ,  and,  indeed,  to  their 
danination.  But  believers  alone  partake  of  Christ  by  faith  truly, 
and  hence  they  abide  in  Christ  and  He  in  them.  The  statement, 
that  faith  is  not  necessary  to  preach  the  gospel,  and  to  dispense 
the  Sacrament,  is  directly  opposed  to  Holy  Scripture,  and  is  an 
arrow  from  the  Pope's  quiver.  Paul  says,  1  Cor.  iv.  2,  '  More- 
over it  is  required  in  stewards  that  a  man  be  found  faithful.'  But 
how  can  a  man  be  faithful  to  God,  his  Lord,  without  believing  on 
Him,  and  loving  Him?  The  office  of  the  ministiy*  above  all 
requires  faith ;  for,  he  who  does  not  possess  it,  is  no  ser\'ant  of 

*  Luther,  in  the  course  of  this  di.sjiute,  in  reference  to  the  mini.'iterinl  office, 
fell  into  an  awkwartl  contradiction  of  liis  former  ])rincii)lcs.  In  the  "discourse 
upon  the  New  Testament,"  he  says,  "  Tliercfore,  if  tlicy  have  hut  faith,  all 
Christian  men  are  priest."!,  and  all  women  priestesses,  be  they  young  or  old. 


320  MANNEE  OF  CONDUCTING  THE  CONTEST. 

God,  but  a  servant  of  the  devil,  and  administers  his  word.  The 
same  holds,  in  the  administration  of  the  Sacrament,  the  celebra- 
tion of  which  is  one  of  the  duties  of  the  Christian  ministry.  He 
who  has  not  faith  would  sooner  conjure  the  devil  than  the  body 
of  Christ." 

Luther :  Yes,  it  comes  all  by  the  power  and  Word  of  God. 

Zivingli :  Were  not  devils  expelled  by  the  Word  of  God,  and 
the  blind  made  to  see  ?  Look  more  narrowly  at  the  words  of 
Peter,  Acts  iii.  6,  "  In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Nazareth,  rise 
up  and  walk."  Has  not  the  impotent  here  been  made  to  stand 
up  by  the  power  of  God  ?  Has  not  Peter  pronounced  the  name 
of  Jesus  upon  Him  ?  But  no  man  can  call  Jesus  Lord,  except  by 
the  Holy  Ghost.  It  is,  however,  the  believer  alone  who  speaks 
and  acts  in  the  Holy  Ghost.  Attend  to  the  passage,  in  Mark  xvi. 
17,  "  And  these  signs  shall  follow  them  that  believe  :  in  my  name 
shall  they  cast  out  devils,"  &c.  Observe  here  to  whom  it  is  that 
the  Lord  grants  power  to  work  wonders,  and  to  act  in  His  name, 
it  is  to  those  who  believe.  Whoever,  then,  in  the  stead  of  Christ, 
discharges  the  office  of  the  ministry,  and  dispenses  the  Sacrament, 
must  \\iiYQ  faith  above  all  things. 

7.  The  Diffeeent  Mannee  in  which  Zwingli  and  Luthee 

CONDUCTED  THE  CONTEST ;   THE  EeSULT  OF  IT. 

Having  thus  stated  the  arguments  and  counter-arguments 
advanced  by  Zwingli  and  Luther  in  this  disputation,  we  sliall 
now  cast  a  glance  at  the  spirit  in  which  each  of  them  waged  the 
contest.  While  we  think  it  must  be  clear  to  every  unprejudiced 
mind  that  Zwingli  had  on  his  side  the  Word  of  God,  rightly  un- 
derstood, we  shall  also  find  that  he  conducted  the  contest,  in 
which  he  became  involved  without  any  fault  of  his,  in  such  a 
manner  as  became  a  Christian.  Unhappily  the  same  cannot 
be  said  of  Luther.  We  must  not,  indeed,  leave  out  of 
view  that  this  eminent  man  had  suffered  much  from  youth 
up,   that   he   had    come    through  a    rough    school,    where,    of 

master  or  servant,  wife  or  maid,  learned  or  unlearned."  At  an  after  period  he 
held  the  opinion  that  if  the  devil  himself  would  only  become  pious  enough  to 
allow  himself  to  be  ordained,  he  might  discharge  the  office  of  the  ministry  very 
well,  and  dispense  the  Sacrament. 


MANNER  OF  CONDUCTINi!  THE  CONTEST.  .'{lil 

necessity  he  liad  to  take  on  ii  roiinh  outside,  it'  he  wtmld  not 
altogether  sink  into  intellectnal  apathy  and  imbecility.  He 
himself,  indeed,  eonfesses:  "My  hull  maybe  somewhat  hard,  but 
the  kernel  is  tt'iider  and  soft."  Unfortunately  he  exposed  only  to 
Zwiugli  the  hard  rind.  While  he  with  justice  regarded  himself 
as  a  chosen  vessel  of  the  Lord  for  the  reformation  of  the  Church, 
he  committed  the  great  mistake  of  looking  upon  every  opinion 
or  doctrine  he  himself  espoused  as  a  truth  of  God,*  and  of 
infallilile  certainty.  From  this  point  of  \aew  it  was  natural  to 
regard  those  of  his  adversary  as  suggested  by  Satan. -f  Accord- 
ingly, at  the  very  outset  of  the  contest,  he  spoke  the  terrible 
words  which  permitted  no  change  or  modification  of  his  views 
afterwards :  |  "  One  party  must  belong  to  the  devil,  and  be  God's 
enemy;  there  is  no  middle  way."  How  very  differently  Zwingli 
judges  of  his  position  to  his  opponents!  He  was  as  convinced 
as  Luther  was  of  himself  that  he  was  a  servant  of  God,  and  called 
to  co-operate  in  the  great  work  of  Eeformation,  but  he  never 
forgot  that  lue  are  all  men  liable  to  err.  Accordingly,  he  began 
every  disquisition  on  this  important  subject  of  debate  with  prayer 
to  (!o(l  for  illumination;  while  Luther  began  or  ended  every  one 
of  his  with  some  reference  to  the  devil. §    In  his  very  first  writing 

*  He  pivcs  the  most  distinct  ex])ression  to  this  sentiment  in  a  writing  under 
•late  January  1539.     Sec  De  Wette's  Letters,  Hook  iv.  page  155. 

t  "  I  hold  that  I  alone  have  stood  (not  to  speak  of  the  old)  in  twenty  tempests 
antl  commotions  which  the  devil  has  blown.  First,  there  was  the  ))opcdom;  yea, 
I  think  all  the  world  should  dearly  know  with  how  many  whirlwinds,  bulls,  and 
books  the  devil  through  the  same  hatli  raged  against  me,  how  he  has  torn  me  to 
pieces,  and  brought  me  to  nought,  (without  my  having  sometimes  a  little  stirred 
them  up.)  and  yet  eft'ectcd  iu)thing  by  it.  except  that  they  increasetl  their  wrath 
and  fury  till  this  day  without  ceasing.  And  just  as  I  was  almost  dying  of  fear 
with  this  raging  of  the  devil,  he  breaks  in  another  hole,  through  Muenzer  and 
the  insurrection,  that  he  may  blow  out  my  candle  altogether.  And  as  Christ 
stops  up  this  hole,  he  drives  in  some  panes  of  my  window,  through  Carlstadt, 
roars  and  howls  that  I  thought  he  would  carry  away  light,  wax,  ami  wick  at 
(mce.  But  (iod  helped  his  jjoor  win<l-light  here  too,  so  that  nothing  was 
fpienched.  Then  came  the  Sacramentalists  and  the  Anabaj)tists,  and  drove  in 
iluor  and  win<low,  to  extinguish,  as  they  thought,  the  light.  Verily,  they  did 
their  be«t.  but  they  did  not  accomiilisii  their  will." 

J  Luther  had  written,  in  reference  to  his  doctrine  of  the  Sui)i(cr.  "  that  in  the 
event  of  his  being  pressed  by  any  extremity  to  say  or  teach  anything  else,  he 
would  have  it  known  that  it  was  false,  and  a  suggestion  of  the  devil."  Zwingli 
justly  characterises  this  declaration  as  a  plain  confession  of  despair. 

§  Zwingli  writes,  upon  one  of  such  conclusions  to  n  book  of  Luther's:  "The 

X 


322  MANNEE  OF  CONDUCTING  THE  CONTEST. 

on  the  subject  in  his  letter  to  Alber,  Zwingii  prays:  "  Ahnighty 
God  lead  us  on  the  right  path,  and  if  we  are  about  to  undertake 
anything  against  Thy  tmth,  0  send  Thy  angel,  that  we  may  not 
be  turned  aside  to  the  folly  of  ignorance  or  of  love  of  vain -glory, 
but  that  He  may  thrust  us  to  the  wall  till  our  foot  be  crushed, 
that  is,  till  the  impure  carnality  be  quenched,  that  we  no  more 
blaspheme  the  name  of  God." 

With  what  mildness  and  love  does  he  reply  to  Luther's  heavy 
accusation  that  the  devil  had  whispered  him  his  doctrine !  "  You 
write,  dear  Luther,  '  that  the  devil  has  taken  possession  of  us ;  we 
had  indeed  read  that  Christ  hath  died  for  us,  but  we  receive  it 
not  into  our  hearts.'  We  do  not  know  what  better  to  say  to  this 
than  to  reply  in  the  words  of  Paul,  '  Wlio  art  thou  that  judgest 
another  man's  servant?'  (Eom.  xiv.  4.)  If  we  repeat  to  you  the 
sum  of  what  we  believe  and  teach,  you  either  say  we  have  learned 
it  from  you — and  is  it  not  wonderful  that  if  we  have  learned  it 
from  you,  you  do  not  recognise  your  own  doctrine  ? — or  you  say 
we  do  not  believe  our  own  confession.  What  are  we  to  do?  We 
can  do  nothing  but  joyfully  bear  the  reproach,  and  lay  our  case 
before  the  just  Judge." 

Zwingii,  in  the  course  of  the  contest,  having  established  many 
self-contradictions  against  Luther,  that  he  might  be  led  to  reflect 
he  too  was  subject  to  error,  assures  him:  "I  say  this  in  truth,  not 
to  make  any  insulting  reproach  against  you,  but  to  hold  up  your- 
self to  yourself.  How  can  you  refrain  from  sajdng,  when  your 
own  assertions  are  held  up  to  you,  "  I  have  made  a  mistake?"  How 
short,  but  how  healing  for  all  the  churches  were  these  simple 
words  !  Is  there  among  mortals  one  that  with  right  can  be 
called  free  from  error?  Nothing  unusual  would  happen  to  you 
were  you  to  say,  "I  am  mistaken."  For  we  all  go  wrong  in  many 
respects.  Then,  indeed,  something  quite  unheard  of  would  happen 
to  you  were  it  to  be  said  Luther  has  never  stumbled,  never  erred. 
Nay,  it  were  altogether  blasphemous  were  we  foolish  enough  to 

best  of  it  all  is,  that  he  closes  his  book  like  the  parson  who  lectured  his  people 
thus:  '  Mark,  if  you  don't  better  yourselves,  and  I  too,  we  shall  all  go  to  the  devil. 
To  which  may  the  Lord  help  you  and  me,  Father,  Son,  and  Holy  Ghost.'  So 
Luther  ends  saying,  '  If  I  should  say  anything  different,  I  here  publicly  make 
known  that  it  is  false,  and  a  suggestion  of  the  devil.  To  which  may  my  Lord  and 
Saviour  help  me,  Jesus  Christ.'  His  former  book  he  began  with  the  devil,  this 
one  he  ends  with  him." 


MAJ^NER  OF  ('(>i\DUCTlN(i  THE  CONTEST.  32.S 

w.sciibe  to  you  that  which  uk.iie  I.oU)iiu«  t,>  the;  Supvoinc  IJcin.. 
Eeflect  how  much  trouble  you  NviU  spare  the  poor  people  of  (iov- 
numy,  who  all  entertain  this  view,  which  you  will  not  espouse  or 
will  not  dare  to  espouse  if  you  speak  this  single  word.     Conquer 
yes,  undoubtedly  conquer,  will  our  opinion;  but  if  you  oi,pose  it' 
the  xactory  will  be  all  the  more  dearly  purchased ;  all  will  congra- 
tulate themselves  upon  it  if  you  but  say,  "I  am  mistaken  "    To  err 
to  stumble,  to  deceive  oneself,  is  human  ;  and  you  will  not  deem 
anything  human  foreign  to  you."     With  the  greatest  anxiety  and 
tenderness  he  endeavoured  to  extricate  his  opponent  from  the 
meshes  ot  passion  in  which  he  had  wound  himself,  and  to  gain 
'him  over  to  a  more  gracious  and  dignified  management  of  his 
cmse.     -There  were  many,"  he  says,  "ere  your  ill-temper  laid 
Itself,  who.  m  the  heat  of  the  debate,  treated  of  this  important 
subject,   upright  and  conscientious  men  they  were,  whom  you 
spared  not  in  a  manner  consistent  either  with  your  own  or  their 
digmty.     I    now   appeal  from  Luther  in  a  passion  to  Luther 
appeased  ami  pacified.     For  it  cannot  escape  you  how  dangerous 
It  IS  to  take  counsel  of  anger,  self-conceit,  obstinacy,  and  ill- 
humour,  and  other  passions ;  with  what  boldness  and  insolence 
hey  pass  themselves  off  as  justice,  courage,  firmness,  and  dionity 
(-ive  up,  I  pray  you,  your  scolding,  which  is  disl■eputablc^  and 
cease  to  overwhelm  us  only  with  hard  words.     Not  as  though  I 
cai-ed  for  such  blasts;  I  have,  thank  God,  pretty  well  accustomed 
inyself  to  them,  and  stand  upon  a  rock  which  does  not  reel  and 
wlneh  gives  me  a  sure  footing  against  the  storm;  but  I  giiatlv 
prefer  to  see  truth  coming  forward  in  its  own  might  and  streno-th 
tiian  to  see  a  man  making  himself  unamiable  by  the  use"  of 
unmeasured  language,  which  always  gives  cause  to  suspect  there' 
IS  pride  at  bottom.     Let  us  refiect  also  that  God  is  a  spectator  of 
this  contest:  He  who  knows  better  than  we  ourselves  the  spirit 
in  which  we  act.     Let  us  also  consider  that  not  only  the  whole 
of  Germany  but  the  whole  of  Christendom,  not  only  the  present 
mt  future  centuri,.s  to  the  end  of  time  are  our  judges,  and  that 
hey  wi  1  furni  a  .,u..t,.r  judgment  r.f  this  matter,  because  they 
^  111  be  less  infected  by  passion."     With  a  tender  pastoral  fidelity 
he  sought  to  prevent  this  conflict  from  disturbing  the  r.eace  and 
;nterests  of  the  renovated  Church;  and  with  thi.:  object  in  view 
he  compo.sed  all  his  first  treatises  i,,  ,1...  Latin  language,  that  the 


324  MANNER  OF  CONDUCTING  THE  CONTEST. 

subject  might  be  discussed  among  the  learned,  and  that  only 
after  they  had  come  to  a  solution  of  it,  it  might  descend  to  the 
common  people.  "  It  was  my  opinion,"  he  writes  to  Luther, 
"  that  you  also  should  conduct  this  dispute  in  the  Latin  language, 
that  it  might  be  first  sifted  by  the  learned,  and  the  community 
only  then  be  made  acquainted  with  it  when  a  satisfactory 
solution  had  been  arrived  at."  But  Luther  disappointed  this 
well  conceived  intention.  With  the  impetuosity  of  his  character, 
he  threw  the  gauntlet  amongst  the  people,  and  strove  to  rouse 
and  animate  them  against  Zwingli  and  his  fiiends.  Wlien  this 
subject  came,  however,  to  be  discussed  among  the  people,  Luther 
and  his  friends  found  to  their  deep  disappointment,  that  their 
measures  had  produced  entirely  opposite  results  to  that  which 
they  anticipated.  They  then,  in  direct  opposition  to  the  prin- 
ciples they  had  formerly  propounded  in  reference  to  the  freedom 
of  the  Church,  made  themselves  guardians  or  tutors  of  the  people. 
They  got  prohibitions  passed  against  the  dissemination  of  the 
writings  of  Zwingli  and  Qicolampad,  and  caused  their  followers, 
in  various  places,  to  be  persecuted;  "For  now,"  wrote  Luther  to  the 
landsrave  of  Hessen,  "  it  is  a  war  to  the  knife  with  the 
Sacramentalists,"  as  Zwingli  and  his  friends  were  called  by  their 
opponents.  Zwingli  was  deeply  grieved  and  justly  indignant  at 
this  behaviour  of  Luther  and  his  party.  He  tenderly  upbinds 
the  wounds  of  the  Christians,  who  found  themselves  lacerated  in 
their  inmost  souls  by  this  strife,  in  these  words :  "  Hold,  dear 
Christians,  to  the  Lord;  not  to  Paul,  nor  Peter,  nor  Luther,  nor 
Zwingli.  It  is  evidence  of  a  weak,  not  to  say  sluggish  faith  to 
plain,  '  to  which  side  shall  I  now  turn,  as  these  two  hold  different 
opinions.'  For  who  are  we,  that  none  are  to  dissent  from  our 
opinions  ?  Is  it  not  a  tnie  saying,  that  every  man  is  a  liar? 
Cling,  then,  to  the  Lord,  and  carry  on  His  work  unweariedly, 
and  give  no  countenance  even  to  the  most  learned,  or  to  the 
most  pious,  to  imagine  it  is  a  sin  if  any  be  not  of  their  opinion." 
In  reference  to  the  prohibition  of  his  books,  in  total  abnegation 
of  the  principles  of  Christian  freedom,  which  Zwingli  had  brought 
so  powerfully  into  play  against  the  popedom,  Zwingli  expresses 
himself  in  the  following  terms,  in  a  writing  against  Dr  Strauss  :* 

*  This  Dr.  Strauss  was  a  restless  spirit,  who  had  been  thrown  into  prison  at 
Eisenach,  for  insurrectionary  attempts.     He  was  now  induced  to  publish  a  very 


MANNER  OF  CONDUCTING  THE  CONTEST.  ;j2o 

"Toll  mo  Mhicli  o\-  the  two  appear  to  have  a  su.spieious  cause 
Ihose  wlio  allow  the  writrngs  of  their  opponent,  to  circulate 
freely  ami  without  violent  restrictions,  combating  them  in  an 
open  and   manly  way  before  their  respective  communities    or 
they  who  bark  against  their  opponents  before  the  simple-minded 
write  publicly  against  them,  and  calumniate  them  in  writinos' 
which  they  very  much  recommend  to  the  perusal  of  their  Hocks' 
but  when  their  antagonists  reply  or  explain,  shout  instantly  wliile 
they  prohibit  their  writings,  "they  are  not  to  be  listened  to  at 
aU ;  a  grosser  heresy  has  never  lifted  its  head?"    ^Y\nch  think  vou 
separate  from  the  Word  of  God  and  his  Church?     You  or  we? 
We  let  your  writings,  the  pope's,  and  every  anti-Christ's  witings 
be  freely  read,  and  combat  your  errors  alone  with  the  sword  of 
the  Word  of  God.*     You,  on  the  other  hand,  mean  to  accomplish 
your  objects  by  prohibitions.     You,  Strauss,  do  this,  and  others 
besides  you,  and  you  mean  to  introduce  a  new  power  and  tyranny 
amongst  us?     Wliat  has  the  pope  done  but  issue  the  command- 
Let  that  alone.     Don't  read  that.     It  is  heretical?'    AVlien  you 
now,  in  like  manner,  banish  the  truth  from  your  churches,  what 
are  you  but  new  popes,  who  deprive  the  community  of  their  free 
judgrment,  and  move  the  princes  just  as  the  pope  did  to  protect 
your  eiToi-s.     This  is  departure  from  the  Word  of  God  •  this  is 
sepai-ation   and  schism.     But   the   path   to    unity  is   to   allow 
freedom  to  aU,  to  bring  before  the  congregation  eveiything  that 
can  make  for  or  against  an  opinion,  and  then  to  leave  the  people 
to  judge  for  themselves.     For  God  is  not  a  God  of  division  but 
of  unity;  He  will  not  aUow  those  to  en-  who  are  assembled 

rigmarole  work  against  "the  unwholesome  doctrine  of  Majjister  Zwingli  " 
CLcolan.pa.l  was  of  opinion  Zwingli  should  not  waste  time  ^pon  him.  Ik. 
Strluir  ""'''"  "  '""'■'  *''■*'"'  "'^"'^  '°  '^'  Margrave  of  iaden  than  tJ 

writil,"/";''!'""  ••'"'•^' ^"'"^l'  ^'"'-^  describes  the  position  he  takes   „p  to  the 

n    '   h   .     ."•^""'"'-'""■^'•'=  "We  forbid  no  doetrine  to  be  brought  before  the 

hur -h,  be  ,t  rank  popery,  or  Lutheran  refined,  or  be  it  mu.l.lv  and  dirtv,  and 

therefore  ..u.te  unl.ke  Luther,  (who.^e  name  in  German  admits  "of  a  pun.  i^  the 

^^odor  C.od.  and  w.nnow  an.l  .„ft  it  properly.  We  then  Hnd  in  nu.nv  a  writin. 
that  .t  has  not  n.ore  substance  than  com  in  a  bad  year;  it  is  sheer  chaff.  Your 
.olcuuca  wnt.uKs  too  n.ay  be  freely  read  among  us.  but  when  they  are 
u.K,ughly  thrashed,  they  yield  little  else  but  straw  and  chaff.  Thev  are  like 
.he^.g-tree. hat  makes  a  great  appearance  with   its   h.„.es,  but  on  wh.ch    h  r 


326  MANNER  OF  CONDUCTING  THE  CONTEST. 

together  in  his  Spirit ;  He  will  cause  peace,  unity,  and  concord 
to  etfloresce  in  the  churches."  Thus  Zwingli,  at  the  same  time 
that  he  defended  the  honest  convictions  of  his  soul,  defended 
ecclesiastical  liberty  against  that  new  species  of  tutelage  to  which 
Luther  and  his  followers  would  subject  it. 

While  Luther  thought  he  must  bring  prominently  forward  his 
gi-eat  merits  as  a  Eeformer  compared  to  Zwingli,  in  such  language 
as:  "We  dare  vaunt  ourselves  that  Christ  has  been  first  preached 
by  us.  If  the  popedom  were  as  terrible  as  of  old,  these  people 
would  be  as  still  as  mice.  But  now  Zwingli  reproaches  us  with 
denying  Christ.  Such  is  the  reward  we  get  for  acknowledging 
these  people;''*  our  Eeformer  satisfied  himself,  in  reply  to  such 
gToundless  imputations,  with  a  simple  defence  of  his  own  in- 
dependent part  in  the  work  of  Eefomiation.  "  \Mien  you  make 
the  boast  that  you  were  the  first  to  lug  forth  the  Bible  from  under 
the  bench,  you  go,  methinks,  too  far.  If  we  examine  who  by 
their  philological  acquirements  made  it  first  kno^^^l,  we  shall 
find  it  was,  some  years  ago,  Valla,-f*  and  in  our  o\\ti  times, 
Erasmus,  the  pious  Eeuclilin  and  Pettikan.  Without  their 
assistance,  neither  you  nor  others  had  effected  what  has  now 
been  done — I  mean  in  so  far  as  the  work  may  be  ascribed  to 
man.  But  who  dare  boast  himself?  Is  it  not  God  alone  who 
gives  the  increase?  Are  not  Paul's  words  here  in  their  place, 
1  Cor.  iii.  6,  7 :  '  I  have  planted,  Apollos  watered ;  but  God  gave 
the  increase.  So  then  neither  is  he  that  planteth  anything, 
neither  he  that  watereth ;  but  God  that  giveth  the  increase ;'  and 
'  Not  unto  us,  O  Lord,  but  unto  thy  name  be  the  praise.'  On  the 
other  hand,  I  shall  gladly  recognise  youi'  merits.  Although  there 
were  not  a  few,  my  good  Luther,  who  knew  the  sum  and  sub- 
stance of  true  religion  as  well  as  yourself,  yet  none  in  all  Israel 
dared  to  come  forward  to  the  fight,  so  terribly  they  feared  that 
dreadful  Goliath  that  stood  opposed  to  them  in  his  full  panoply 


*  This  .'itatement  of  Luther  is  uuti-ue.  Although  he  nowhere  rccoguised  the 
merits  of  Zwingli,  we  see  how  the  latter  mentions  him,  page  76. 

t  Laurentius  Valla  was  born  at  Piacenza,  1416.  He  had  laboured  in  many 
of  the  towns  of  Italy  as  a  teacher,  with  great  acceptance.  He  laid  the  Church 
under  obligations  to  him  by  his  historical  researches,  and  by  his  notes  on  the 
New  Testament,  to  which  Zwingli  here  refers.  Much  persecuted  by  the  monks, 
he  died  at  Rome,  1465. 


MANNER  OF  CONDUCTING  THE  CONTEST.  327 

jiinl  power.  Here,  here  you  were  the  true  David,  anointed  by 
the  Lord  for  tlie  work.  Wlierefore,  all  believing  souls  will  never 
cease  to  sing  Avith  joy  and  gladness,  '  Saul  hath  slain  his  thou- 
sands, but  David  his  tens  of  thousands.  Now,  as  for  myself,  dear 
Luther,  I  have  ever  reverenced  my  teachers  as  father.s.  If,  then, 
out  of  the  fulness  which  God  has  granted  to  you,  anj-thing  had 
flowed  to  me,  why  should  I  not  acknowledge  it?  "NMiy,  above 
all,  if  I  had  learned  the  contents  of  the  gospel  from  you,  should 
not  I  confess  it  ?  But  I  shall  candidly  tell  you  how  it  is.  There 
were  many  distinguished  men,  long  before  the  name  of  Martin 
Luther  became  famous,  wlio  tnily  recognised  in  what  the  essence 
of  religion  consisted,  and  who  were  instructed  by  very  different 
teachers  from  those  whom  you  suppose.  For  in  respect  of  myself, 
I  testify  before  God  that  I  learned  the  substance  and  chief  con- 
tents of  the  gospel  partly  by  the  perusal  of  John  and  the  writings 
of  Augustine,  and  partly  by  the  diligent  study  of  the  Epistles  of 
Paul  in  the  original  Greek,  which,  with  this  hand,  I  copied  out 
eleven  years  ago,  (1516,)  eight  of  which  years  you  have  been 
ruling  like  a  king."  In  such  a  modest  and  amiable  spirit  ZwingU 
answered  Luther's  hard  words,  never  for  an  instant  forgetting 
that  they  stood  upon  the  same  basis  of  faith.  ^M^ile  he  repelled 
Faber,  who  sought  to  exti-act  advantage  fi'om  this  dispute  between 
him  and  Luther  in  the  preliminary  skirmish  before  the  Baden 
Disputation,  with  the  observation,  "  Luther  and  I  will  be  tnily 
one  without  your  interference,  for  we  have  one  faith  in  Jesus 
Christ,"  he  endeavoured  to  bring  Luther  himself  to  the  conscious- 
ness of  this  unity  in  faith,  reminding  him  of  the  contest  between 
Paul  and  Barnabas,  on  Clark's  account,  as  told  to  us  in  Acts  xviii, 
"  Here,  in  tnith,  the  noblest  vessel  and  armoury  of  God,  Paul, 
was  in  tlie  ^n•ong.  For  why  should  not  Mark  join  them  in  the 
work  of  the  gospel,  he  ha^'ing  never  denied  it,  although  he  liad 
left  them  in  Pamphylia,  and  had  gone  to  Jerusalem?  Here  Bar- 
nabas, a  decisive,  resolute,  but  at  the  same  time  mild  and  tem- 
perate Christian,  was  in  the  right,  while  Paul  was  in  the  wrong. 
Although  the  di.spute  betwixt  them  waxed  so  hot  that  tliey 
parted  from  one  another,  yet  they  were  again  one.  For  Paul,  in 
1  Cor.  ix.,  which  he  wrote  k)ng  after  tlu'ir  dissension,  makes 
honouraV>le  mention  of  Barnabas.  We  then  humlily  pray  Luther, 
by  the  .same  spirit  in  which  we  all  live,  in  which  he  has  preached 


:i28  MANNER  (JF  CONDUCTING  THE  CONTEST. 

the  gospel,  as  we  also  believe  it,  by  tlie  same  spirit  in  wliich,  at 
the  last  day,  we  shall  have  wished  to  preach  it,  to  reflect  that 
he  is  not  exalted  above  error,  since  Paul  himself,  in  the  heat  of 
temper,  went  too  far,  who  yet,  in  respect  of  doctrine  and  holiness, 
is  equal  to,  or  even  surpasses,  all  the  apostles.  We  know  Luther's 
courageous  advance  against  the  Papacy,  when  none  ventured  it. 
We  know,  at  the  same  time,  however,  which,  with  God's  grace, 
he  will  also  admit,  that  his  knowledge  and  learning  are  but  of 
moderate  dimensions  ;  let  him  therefore  beware  lest  the  devil 
tempt  him  to  pride.  God  has  given  him  strength  of  soul  enough, 
let  him  turn  it  to  His  glory,  and  sure  we  are  that  we  shall  be  in 
all  respects  one  with  him.  ]\Iay  the  God  of  truth  grant  this. 
Amen."* 

Wliile  Zwingli  in  this  contest  was  much  superior  to  his  anta- 
gonist in  the  clear  establishment  of  his  position  by  passages  from 
the  Word  of  God,  which  to  every  unprejudiced  mind  must  be 
convincing,  he  at  the  same  time  greatly  excelled  him  in  the  pious 
delicacy  and  reserve  with  wdrich  he  handled  things  sacred.  How 
wisely  and  tenderly  selected  are  the  images  by  which  he  illus- 
trated his  conception  of  the  significance  of  the  Supper.  It  is 
enough  to  remind  the  reader  of  the  image  of  the  royal  marriage- 
ring,  and  of  that  of  the  sun.  We  cannot,  however,  restrain  our- 
selves from  mentioning  a  third,  which  he  made  use  of  in  his 
sermon  at  P)erne  to  represent  that  the  bread  and  wine  of  the 
Eucharist  distinguishes  itself  above  all  other  bread  and  wine,  in 
significance  if  not  in  substance.  "  The  flower  in  the  phillet  of  the 
bride  is  far  more  glorious  there  than  if  it  stood  alone  and  for 
itself,  although  the  same  flower.  Thus,  likewise,  the  stuff"  and 
substance  of  the  bread  in  the  Holy  Supper  is  the  same  as  in 
other  bread,  but  the  dignity  and  solemnity  of  this  holy  transac- 
tion lends  to  it  a  peculiar  character,  that  in  this  respect  it  is  not 
like  other  bread,  but  holy  bread."     Luther,   on  the  other  hand, 

*  Can  there  be  a  greater  contrast  than  that  of  Luther's  language  in  reply  to 
the  above  of  Zwingli?  "Well,  then,  since  they  are  so  abandoned,  and  make  a 
mock  of  all  men,  I  shall  give  them  a  Lutheran  warning,  saying,  Cursed  be  such 
love  and  union  into  the  abyss  of  hell,  because  such  ttnion  not  only  tears  miser- 
ably the  Church  in  pieces,  but,  after  the  manner  of  the  devil,  mocks  at  and 
befools  it.  No,  'tis  not  for  me,  dear  friends  of  peace  and  love.  If,  after  hav- 
ing murdered  the  father,  mother,  wife,  and  children  of  a  man,  whose  own  life  I 
intended  to  take,  I  fhould  turn  and  sny  to  him,  Let  us  have  peace,  dear  brother. 


MANNER  OF  CONDUtTlNG  THE  CONTEST.  329 

often  gave  way  to  rude  and  coarse  expressions  *  whith  Zwingli 
always  encountered  with  meekness,  or  at  most,  with  some  "  cheer- 
ful witticism,"  as  he  expresses  himself.  An  example  of  this  kind 
is  to  be  found  in  his  address  to  the  Christians  at  Esslingen,  in  which 
lie  is  led  to  give  way  to  his  sense  of  the  ludicrous,  hy  the  dark  and 
confused  combination  of  the  ideas  "  fleshly"  and  "  spiritually,"  on 
the  part  of  the  Lutherans.  "  When  we  say,"  he  writes,  "  we  have  one 
faith  Avith  them,  to  wit,  confidence  in  the  death  of  tlie  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  and  this  is  'to  eat  His  flesh,'  and  'drink  His  blood,'  they 
reply  to  us,  '  Oh !  Init  there  is  another  eating  of  His  flesh,  and 
drinking  of  His  blood,  to  wit,  a  "spiritual-fleshly."'  On  our 
objecting,  'To  eat  the  flesh  fleshly  profits  nothing,'  they  reply, 
'  Nay,  that  is  all  done  spiritually ;  you  don't  understand  it,  and 
are  infidels,  fanatics,  hypocrites,  and  revolutionists.'  ]\fark,  I 
pray  of  you,  which  of  us  is  false  and  fanatical.  We  speak  accord- 
ing to  the  Word  of  God,  which  teaches  us  that  *  to  eat  Christ/ 
is  'to  believe  on  Christ,'  John  vi.  35;  you  make  an  invention  of 
your  own,  and  speak  of  a  fleshly-spiritual  eating,  which  is  an 
idea  somewhat  resembling  '  a  wooden  poker.'  Judge  your  own- 
selves  which  of  us  be  fanatics — we  who  give  so  clear  a  sense  to 
spiritual  eating,  setting  the  fleshly  eating  behind  it,  or  you,  who 

we  shall  be  good  friends,  the  matter  is  not  so  great  that  we  should  (jnarrel  ahout 
it,  what  should  he  say  to  me?  How  dearly  he  ought  to  love  me!  Now,  the 
fanatics  murder  Christ  my  Lord,  and  (Jod  the  Father  in  His  Word,  my  mother 
Christianity,  along  with  my  brethren,  and  they  would  slay  myself,  and  they  say 
I  oiipht  to  be  at  peace  with  them — we  ought  to  cultivate  love  towards  each 
other!" 

*  Having  once  pronounced  the  extraordinary  idea,  that  the  body  of  Christ  is 
everywhere  present,  in  ever)-  leaf,  in  every  grass-stalk,  on  the  table,  and  under 
the  table,  he  goes  on:  "  Now  there  come  other  fanatics  who  ))retend,  'Is  it  so  ?  Is 
Christ's  body  at  all  corners?  Oh,  then,  I'll  gobble  and  drink  Him  up  in  the  wine- 
hou.ses,  in  plates,  glasses,  and  pots;  there  is  then  no  difference  betwixt  my  table 
and  the  Lord's  table!  Oh,  how  we  shall  eat  Him  up!'  Such  scandalous  swine 
are  we  incorrigible  Germans  that  we  have  neither  sense  nor  reason,  and  when 
we  hear  of  God  we  pay  a.s  little  res])ect  as  if  the  suliject  were  a  Merry  Andrew. 
And  God  knows  I  write  such  things  very  unwillingly,  l>ecause  I  know  it  must 
come  among  such  dogs  and  swine.  But  what  am  I  to  do?  The  fanatics  are 
responsil>lc  for  it,  who  compel  me  to  it.  Now,  listen  to  this,  you  sow,  dog,  or 
fanatic,  you  who  are  but  an  unreasoning  ass,  you  will  not  so  soon  cat,  drink, 
and  handle  Him  as  you  su]ipose,  although  Clirist's  body  is  everywhere  present; 
nor  shall  I  sjicak  with  you  of  such  things.  Go,  sow,  into  your  stye."  We  can 
assure  our  readers  that  this  i)assapc  i<  by  no  mean<s  the  most  striking  proof  for 
the  statement  in  the  text. 


380  MANNEK  OF  CONDUCTING  THE  CONTEST. 

make  a  painted  representation  with  words,  that  is  neither  under- 
stood nor  believed  by  any  creature  on  earth.  If  I  understand 
the  word  '  fanatic'  aright,  those  fanaticise  who,  by  things  whicli 
they  do  not  understand,  fall  into  a  passion,  and  talk  arrant  non- 
sense, at  the  same  time  persuading  men  they  themselves  under- 
stand it  very  well,  others  do  not.  They  act  like  that  impostor  of  a 
XDainter  who  pretended  to  the  younkers  he  painted  churches,  but,  if 
they  were  not  legitimately  born,  they  could  not  see  them.  Now 
the  younkers  would  pass  for  legitimate,  and  they  one  and  all 
acknowledged  they  saw  the  churches.  It  is  so  in  our  case. 
AVlien  some  great  doctor  blusters  and  says,  '  He  wdio  believes  not 
this  is  no  Christian,'  each  is  ready  to  swallow  it,  and  let  himself 
pass  for  a  prim,  pious,  and  Sunday  Christian." 

Among  Zwingii's  friends  and  followers  who  took  part  in  the 
polemical  war  against  Luther,  there  was  no  one  who  more  distin- 
guished himself  than  Leo  Jud,  who  brought  together,  in  a  special 
publication,  the  views  of  Luther  and  Erasmus,  as  they  main- 
tained them  before  the  outbreak  of  the  dispute,  in  order  to  esta- 
blish that  at  that  time  they  spoke  of  the  spiritual  presence  of 
Christ,  and  the  spiritual  partaking  of  Christ,  in  precisely  the 
same  terms  as  Zwingii  now  did.  This  work,  however,  whicli 
appeared  under  the  assumed  nameof  Ludovicus  Leopoldus,  instead 
of  opening  the  way,  as  it  ought  to  have  done,  to  a  reconciliation 
with  Luther,  had  the  directly  contrary  effect  in  the  opinion  of 
Lavater.*  Luther  was  profoundly  offended  at  the  reproach,  that 
he  stood  in  open  contradiction  to  himself,  though  made  in 
terms  the  most  sparing  to  his  feelings.  CEcolampad's  participa- 
tion in  the  contest  was  of  greater  importance  to  Zwingii's  cause. 
Endow^ed  with  a  rare  meekness  and  suavity  of  temper,  he  brought 
his  solid  learning  into  the  service  of  his  venerated  friend,  and 
while  Zwingii  directed  his  attention  principally  to  establishing 
the  accordance  of  his  doctrine  with  Scripture,  G^colampad  under- 
took to  prove  its  agreement  with  the  opinions  of  the  orthodox 
fathers.  The  activity  of  both  in  their  separate  provinces  filled 
up  the  proof  in  beautiful  harmony  and  completion,  while  each, 
in  the  spirit  of  a  staunch  friendship,  was  ready  to  repel  any  false 
accusation  directed  against  the  other.     There  occiu-  to  us  here 

t  Lewis  Lavater,  Zwingii's  third  successor  at  the  Great  Minster  of  Znrich, 
luihlishcd  a  valuable  history  of  the  Sacramental  Controversy. 


MANNER  OF  CONDUCTING  THE  CONTEST.  331 

the  words  iKcolampad  u.^cd  lu  the  I'uurteeu  Siuil.iiaii  pastors,  wlio, 
in  a  polemical  writing  entitled  "The  Syngramin,"*  directed  against 
liiniself,  thought  it  their  duty  to  depreciate  Zwingli.  He  defended 
his  friend,  and  replied,  "  Did  you  know  how  much  he  does  and 
suffers  for  Christ,  you  would  certainly  shew  him  greater  honour." 
On  tli(^  side  of  the  Lutherans,  there  took  i)art  in  this  contro- 
M-rsy  ehietly  the  Wittenberg  town-pastor  Ikigeuhagen  or  Pomer- 
anus,-f-  John  J^irenz,  pastor  in  Schwaebish-Hall,  Wilibald  I'irk- 
heimer.:J:  Osiander  in  Nuenberg,  and  some  others  of  less  note. 

*  John  liroiiz,  with  tliirtcen  of  his  colleagues,  published  this  polemical  hook, 
which  will  l)e  reviewcil  iu  the  life  of  (Ecohuni)a(l.  lie  studied  at  Wittenbero:, 
and  was  always  a  faithful  follower  of  Luther,  by  whom  he  was  much  and  frc- 
(|uently  commended. 

t  liuirenhaireu  was  a  native  of  Pomerania,  and  usually  went  by  the  name  of 
I'omeranus,  from  the  place  of  his  birth.  His  attacTc  against  Zwingli  was  con- 
tained in  a  published  letter  addressed  to  Pastor  Hess  of  Breslau,  and  as  Schenkel 
well  remarks,  displays  just  as  profound  a  comprehension  of  the  Zwinglian 
doctrine  of  the  Supper,  as  that  which  is  to  be  found  in  most  Lutheran  jiolemical 
works  of  the  present  day.  He  manifests  no  comprehension  at  all  of  Zwingli's 
specific  standing-point,  and  doltishly  reproaches  him  with  "  confounding  the 
little  word  '  is'  with  '  signifies,'  "  saying  that  in  this  his  whole  theology  consists. 
This  insignificant  production  received  at  the  hands  of  Zwingli  a  thorough  and 
masterly  refutation,  of  which  it  was  not  at  all  worthy. 

J  Wilibald  Pirkheimer  was  at  an  earlier  period  much  more  attached  to 
Zwingli  than  to  Luther ;  he  had,  like  the  Zurich  Kefonner,  enjoyed  a  classical 
education.  It  is  remarkable,  that  the  men  who  had  been  so  educated,  but  who 
yet  had  not  soared  into  the  higher  regions  of  a  living  Christian  faith,  and  thus 
had  not  penetrated  into  the  sanctuary  of  Christian  truth  itself,  but  were  content 
to  take  up  their  position  in  the  outer  court  of  the  Gentiles,  were  at  first  greatlv 
prejudiced  against  Luther.  They  feared  from  his  ardent  and  strenuous  labouns 
in  the  faith,  which  made  light  of  all  their  select  forms,  injury  to  the  cause  of  the 
newly  awakened  classical  culture.  Such  men  were  Erasmus  of  Basle,  Dr. 
Zasius  of  Freiburg,  Briesgau  the  famous  jurist,  and  Pirkheimer.  Zwingli,  who 
united  to  their  classical  tastes  Luther's  lofty  and  far-reaching  faith,  defended 
him  in  letters  addressed  to  them,  and  compared  Luther  in  a  letter  to  Zasius 
with  the  prophet  Elias.  With  Krasmiis  he  had  a  ru])ture  on  Luther's  account; 
for,  highly  as  he  honoured  classical  culture,  and  those  who  possessed  it,  and 
above  all  Erasmus,  faith  stood  still  higher  in  his  estimation.  Upon  tiie  out- 
break of  the  Sui)j)er-contr«versy,  all  the  men  of  the  above  stamp  defended  the 
much  more  Koman  Catholic  ideas  of  Luther,  and  repaid  Zwingli's  noble-minded 
cflbrts  at  mediation  between  them  at  an  earlier  period,  by  joining  the  former  in 
proclaiming  the  doctrine  and  person  of  the  Zurich  Beformer  heretical  and 
danmable.  Luther  manifested  his  patcful  sense  of  this  favour,  especiallv 
towards  Pirkheimer.  by  assuming  as  true  all  the  perversions  of  Zwingli's 
doctrine  which  the  latter  had  allowed  himself  in  his  polemical  writings,  instead 
of  examining  Zwingli's  writings  for  himself,  and  it  was  fnmi  so  false  a  standing- 
]>oint  as  this,  that  Luther  condiattcd  Zwingli  and  his  doctrine.  (Compare 
what  Kbrard  says  in  the  second  vid.  of  his  Hogiii.T  of  the  Supper.) 


332  MANNEE  OF  CONDUCTINa  THE  CONTEST. 

If  we  glance  at  the  result  of  this  contest  for  both  parties,  we 
shall  find  it  was  much  more  favourable  for  Zwingii  and  his 
friends  than  they  might  have  been  led  to  anticipate.  Our  Ee- 
former,  however,  possessed  far  too  profound  a  knowledge  of  the 
human  heart,  and  of  the  motives  which  influence  the  great 
majority  in  their  opinions  and  judgments,  not  to  be  well  aware 
how  difficult  was  the  stand  that  pure  and  naked  truth  had  to 
make  against  the  gigantic  power  of  prejudice  and  traditionary 
belief  on  the  side  of  Luther.  "  I  know,"  he  says,  "  how  difticult 
it  is  to  combat  a  delusion  that  has  struck  its  roots  deep  into  the 
hearts  of  all.  For  our  very  veneration  of  Christ  seems  to  justify 
a  vehement  defence  of  those  outward  signs,  which  we  call 
sacraments ;  and  we  think  if  we  acquit  ourselves  of  this  task,  w^e 
have  done  some  great  thing,  while  our  first  object  ought  to  be 
more  and  more  to  resemble  the  great  Master,  whose  name  we 
bear.  The  contest  is  dangerous  with  so  many  and  so  furious 
enemies.  For  each  will  pass  for  most  pious,  by  raging  most 
furiously."  Although,  however,  his  position  was  a  difficult  one, 
and  although  Luther,  not  only  by  the  wonder-working  power  of 
his  richly  metaphorical  and  popular  language  set  the  whole  mass 
of  popular  prejudices  in  motion  for  his  view,  but  also  threw  into 
the  scale  the  whole  weight  of  his  personal  authority  and  personal 
convictions  and  passions,  Zwingli's  cause  travelled  on  from  one 
victory  to  another,  while  he,  as  he  says  himself,  always  allowed 
the  truth  to  appear  in  her  own  person,  and  with  her  own  power- 
ful authority,  nor  made  her  disagreeable  by  the  use  of  unmeasured 
language,  which  always  gives  reason  to  suspect  pride ;  inasmuch 
as  the  simple-minded  and  single-hearted  Christian  much  more 
gladly  listens  to  truth,  wdien  she  makes  her  appearance  in  her 
own  simple  robe,  than  when  she  stalks  forth  oppressed  with  a 
load  of  ornaments,  and  proceeds  to  hector  and  to  bully. 

Thus  Zwingli's  doctiine  of  the  Suj^per  spread  rapidly  through 
the  whole  of  Switzerland,  forwarded  by  the  convincing  advocacy 
of  his  writings,  which  breathed  the  spirit  of  Christian  mildness 
and  charity,  admirably  blended  with  manly  resolution  and  sound 
sense.  Wliile  at  the  rehgious  disputation  in  Berne  1528,  an 
overwhelming  number  of  the  preachers  and  men  of  learning  from 
Switzerland,  Southern  Germany,  and  Strasburg,  with  the  excep- 
tion of  Althainer  of  Nurnberg,  and  Burgauer  of  St.  Gall,  gave  in 


MANNER  OF  CONDUCTING  THE  CONTEST.  333 

tht'ir  iidhosion  to  his  doctrine;  the  clergy  of  the  Margraviate  of 
Baden,  with  th(»  exception  of  Dr.  Strauss,  were  not  behind  in 
expressing  theii"  concurrence,  and  as  Zwingli  couhl  count  upon 
at  least  the  half  of  the  population  of  Augsburg,  the  preachers 
of  that  town  gave  publication  to  similar  view^s  with  his  own,  in 
a  WTiting  which  they  issued  on  Palm  Sunday  1527.  "As  God  in 
the  Old  Testament  commanded  that  His  mercy  and  redemption 
should  be  yearly  commemorated  at  the  feast  of  the  Passover, 
without  doul^t,  for  the  purpose  of  awakening  true  confidence 
in  Him,  who  is  alone  able  and  willing  to  save,  so  Christ  our 
Eedeemer,  in  the  last  Supper  immediately  preceding  His  suffer- 
ings and  death,  commanded  his  disciples,  while  he  himself  fed 
them  with  faith,  seriously  to  ponder  his  unnu^a.surcable  love 
towards  us  in  the  work  of  redemption,  saying,  '  This  do  in 
remembrance  of  me.'  And  Paul  says,  '  Ye  do  shew  the  Lord's 
death  till  lie  conu^'  without  doubt  that  our  confidence  towards 
him  as  to  our  only  Redeemer,  may  b(>  awakened,  strengthened,  and 
sustained,  if  so  be  that  we  bear  in  mind  that  the  Son  of  God 
himself  has  taken  upon  Him  our  sins,  and  is  the  true  Paschal 
lamb  which  taketh  away  sin,  for  He  hath  given  His  body  as  a 
propitiatoiy  sacrifice  for  us,  and  hath  poured  out  His  blood  for 
the  pardon  of  our  sins,  to  cleanse  our  conscience  from  dead 
works,  and  to  confirm  the  New  Testament,  the  covenant  of  grace 
betwixt  God  and  us,  that  our  sins  are  forgiven,  and  that  we  are 
endowed  with  a  right  understanding  of  (iod,  are  become  his 
people,  and  lie  our  God,  as  he  hath  promised  us,  Jer.  xxxi." 
Ebrard  obsen-es  that  this  conception  of  the  significance  of  the 
Supper  closely  resembles  Zwingli's. 

But  even  in  places  where  Luther  and  his  party  could  recklessly 
proclaim  their  views,  Zwingli  had  resolute  adherents  of  his 
doctrine.  At  the  instance  of  Pirkheimer  and  Osiander,  who  in 
their  polemical  works  surpassed  even  their  exemplar  in  AVitten- 
berg  in  passionate  vituperations  of  the  Swiss,  Zwingli's  writings 
had  been  prohibited  in  Nurnberg ;  yet  here  John  Haner  and 
the  famous  jiaintcr,  Albrccht  Durer,*  h;id  the  courage  to 
espouse  and  defend  his  doctrine.     Nay,  in  Wittenberg  it.self,  he 

*  Inan  interchange  of  words  which  he  had  with  Pirkheimer  nponthis  suhjert. 
tlie  latter  snid,  "  what  you  say  cannot  he  iminted."  Upon  \\hi(h  Diircr  ri'plii<|, 
"  But  what  you  say  cannot  be  u-ritten,  not  to  speak  of  painting." 


334-  MANNEE  OF  CONDUCTING  THE  CONTEST. 

had  his  adherents,  as  Capito  informs  us,  where  Luther,  by  the 
force  of  his  authority,  suppressed,  in  a  manner  keenly  felt  by  his 
nearest  friend  Melanchthon,*  any  opinions  that  differed  from  his 
own  ;  and  the  same  was  the  case  in  Brunswick-f*  and  other  places. 
In  the  towns  on  the  Rhine,  in  the  Mdiole  of  Holland  and  East 
Friesland,  as  Bucer  mentions  to  Zwingli,  9th  July  1526,  and  in 
France,  his  doctrine  of  the  Supper  had  free  course  among  the 
Evangelicals,  so  that  Zwingli  could  w^rite  with  good  reason :  "  If 
we  look  to  it  closely,  we  shall  perceive  that  the  majority  of 
Christians  are  of  our  way  of  thinking,"  and  in  a  letter  to 
Osiander,  he  ventured  to  express  the  confident  hope,  "that  within 
the  period  of  three  years  our  opinion  will  be  the  preponderating 
one  in  the  half  of  Europe."!  "i^^^is  result  of  the  polemical  war, 
so  favourable  for  Zwingli,  was  not  unknown  at  Wittenberg, 
and  was  even  admitted,  however  reluctantly,  by  Melanchthon 
and  Luther.  The  former  wrote  to  the  elector,  John  Frederick, 
"that  the  doctrine  of  the  opposite  party  had  the  assent  of  many 
men  who  had  a  name  for  learning  in  Germany;"  and  Luther  let 
the  Germans  know,  by  his  bitter  taunts,§  the  deep  disappoint- 
ment he  felt  at  this  result.  The  soul  of  this  great  man,  in  truth, 
clouded  itself  more  and  more  in  the  conduct  of  this  strife,  to 
which  result  domestic  and  public  misfortunes  also  contributed 
their  share.  The  plague  raged  at  this  time  in  Saxony,  and  had 
changed  Luther's  house,  as  he  expresses  it,  into  a  lazaretto  ;  he 
himself  was  laid  low,  by  a  very  dangerous  attack,  wliich  he 

*  Melanchthon,  Luther's  best  friend,  wrote  in  a  letter  some  years  after  his 
death :  "  Lnther  was  by  all  his  great  virtues  hasty  and  passionate.  I  was  often 
obliged  to  manifest  a  slavish  subjection  to  him,  as  he  frequently  followed  the 
humour  of  the  moment,  and  then  consulted  little  his  own  dignity  and  the  general 
good.     He  could  not  icell  endure  contradiction." 

t  Where  Laffards,  first  Kector  in  the  High  School,  concurred  in  Zwingli's 
doctrine. 

J  Luther's  view  cotild  only  hold  its  ground,  where,  either  directly  or  indirectly 
through  his  scholars  and  friends,  tlie  whole  weight  of  his  personal  authority  was 
thrown  into  the  scale.  The  phenomenon  is  lience  easily  explained,  that  outside 
of  Gei'many,  Zwingli's  view  was  adopted  with  hardly  any  opposition. 

§  "  We  Germans  are  such  blades,  that  whatever  is  new  we  fall  to  it,  and  hang 
on  it  like  fools.  And  he  who  would  withstand  our  folly  makes  us  more  foolish 
than  before ;  but  if  none  withstand  us,  we  soon  get  tired,  and  begin  to  gape  about 
for  something  new.  The  devil  has  thus  the  advantage  that  no  doctrine  or  con- 
ceit, however  absurd  it  be,  can  lift  its  head  above  water  with  us  without  finding 
advocates,  and  the  more  absurd  it  is  the  more  readily  it  will  find  supporters." 


ATTEMPTS  AT  UNTON.  335 

thought  woiihl  prove  fatal.  Under  the  weight  of  these  .sorrows, 
he  thought  the  day  of  judgment,  with  all  its  terrors,  was  about 
to  burst  on  the  world,  and,  in  feverish  excitement,  he  would 
strain  every  nerve  for  the  suppression  of  the  dangerous  heresy, 
■which  he  regarded  the  doctrine  of  his  adversaries  to  be. 

Zwingli,  however,  had  no  reason  to  be  proud  of  a  contest,  earned 
on  with  a  man  standing  so  higli  in  public  esteem.  Although  he 
enjoyed  the  satisfaction  of  seeing  his  opinion,  which  he  main- 
tained with  all  Christian  patience  and  mildness,  winning  one 
victory  after  another,  he  had  too  much  penetration  not  to  be 
aware  of  the  pain  which  the  memljers  of  the  Eeformed  Church 
felt  on  its  account.  The  question,  "  To  which  side  shall  I  now 
turn,  since  Luther  and  Zwingli. are  at  variance?"  revealed  the 
deep  rent  which  tore  evangelical  Christendom  during  the  progress 
of  a  controversy  which  separated  two  men  whom  all  believers 
held  in  high  estimatioiL  Besides  all  this,  the  evangelical  party 
were  not  only  subjected  to  hear  daily  from  the  papists  the  taunt, 
"  You  would  hold  to  the  pure  Word  of  God,  and  now  you  quan-el 
among  yourselves  about  it,"  but  likewise  to  see  Pope,  Emperor, 
and  the  Eoman  Catholic  princes,  drawing  closer  to  each  other,  in 
measures  which  had  for  their  objc^ct  the  total  suppression  of  the 
lieforaiation,  while,  under  the  injurious  influence  of  the  Supper- 
controversy,  they  could  arrive  at  no  union  among  themselves. 
These  distressing  circumstances  lay  heavily  on  the  hearts  of  many 
evangelical  men,  whose  intellectual  eye  was  not  dimmed  by  pas- 
sionate excitement,  and  induced  them  to  think  of  ways  and 
means  to  effect  a  reconciliation  between  the  champions  of  both 
parties,  and  to  extinguish  the  controversy.  We  shall  now  turn 
our  attention  to  these  attempts  at  reconciliation,  and  see  with 
what  success  they  were  attended. 


S.  TfrE  Attempts  at  I'nion. 

Even  before  the  actual  outbreak  of  the  controversy  betwixt 
Luther  and  Zwingli,  when  Luther  had  seized  an  oi»)n»rtunity  of 
a.ssailing  Zwiaigli,  who  had  not  yet  answered  him,  the  Stra.sburg 
divines,  Capito,  Bucer,  and  Medio,  endeavoured  to  bring  about  an 
understanding  Ix'tween  the  two  great  mm.  whom  all  venerated, 


886  ATTEMPTS  AT  UNION. 

and  thus  to  prevent  the  great  scandal,  which  would  inevitably 
accrue  to  the  Eeformed  Church,  through  an  open  dissension  of 
opinion.  Zwingli  they  Legged,  in  the  meantime,  not  to  reply  to 
Luther's  invectives,  and  they  sent  to  Luther,  as  early  as  1525, 
Gregorius  Chaselius,  professor  of  Hebrew,  to  represent  to  him  and 
his  friends  what  a  dangerous  conflagration  might  arise  if  so  bitter 
and  intemperate  writings  as  they  had  published  against  Zwingli 
should  be  answered  by  him  in  the  same  spirit,  at  the  very  time 
that  they  ought,  with  combined  energy,  to  combat  the  power  of 
the  Pope.  They  might  interpret  the  words  of  institution  of  the 
Holy  Supper  in  the  manner  which  they  thought  to  be  consistent 
with  truth,  rejecting  all  they  held  erroneous  and  false ;  but  they 
ought  to  bear  in  mind  those  great  truths  which  they  held  in 
common  with  the  Swiss,  and  regard  and  recognise  them  as 
lirethren.  Chaselius  was  to  embrace  this  opportunity  of  impart- 
ing to  Luther  and  his  friends  a  better  opinion  of  Zwingli  and 
Q^colampad,  one  more  correspondent  with  truth,  and  more  con- 
sistent with  the  great  services  they  had  rendered  to  the  Church 
of  Christ. 

Gladly  as  Zwingli,  out  of  love  to  peace,  acceded  to  the  desires 
of  his  Strasburg  friends,  stern  and  obdurate  was  the  demeanour 
of  Luther.  "  Satan,"  said  he,  in  a  work  in  which  he  replied  to 
them,  "  is  not  a  man,  nor  the  world,  but  a  prince,  and  the  god  of 
the  world.  Wlio  should  not  rejoice  that  Zwingli  and  fficolam- 
pad's  holiness,  and  their  churches,  are  so  much  lauded  by  you? 
Yet  I  cannot  well  comprehend  what  you  understand  under  this 
holiness  and  these  churches.  We  dare  boast  that  Christ  was  first 
proclaimed  by  us.  If  they  be  assured  of  their  faith,  let  them 
come  forward  and  convict  us  of  error.  Either  they  or  we  must 
be  the  devil's  servants,  there  is  therefore  here  no  place  for  coun- 
sel or  mediation.  '  What  communion  hath  Christ  with  Belial?'" 
In  this  manner,  the  bands  of  mediation,  knit  by  Christian  love, 
were  torn  asunder  by  Luther's  rude  hand,  and  the  union  sought 
after  ruthlessly  stifled.  He  drew  Bucer  himself  into  the  contest 
in  the  end,  while  all  hope  vanished  from  the  meek  and  temperate 
Capito,  of  reconciling  with  his  opponents,  "  the  furious  Orestes," 
as  he  calls  Luther,  in  a  letter  to  Zwingli.  But  there  was  another 
who  mourned  over  the  rent  that  these  controversies  spread  through 
the  Reformed  Church,  who  formed  the  resolution  of  working  out 


ATTEMriS  AT  UNION.  337 

au  understanding  and  reconcilement.    Tlii.s  wa.s  the  liigldy  intel- 
lectual jn-eacher,  John  Hanor  *  first  of  Frankfort-ou-t1ie-I^Iaine, 
afterwards  of  Xurnb.n-o-.      It   was   he  wlio   induced  the  noble- 
niinded  and  richly-gifted  landgrave,  I^hilip  von  Hessen,  to  under- 
take the  task  of  mediation  between   the  angiy  brethren.      In 
March  lo29,  tlie  opening  of  the  second  Diet  at  Speyer,  so  im- 
portant for  the  reformed  Church,   took  place,   at  which'   under 
Faber's  and  Eek's  influence,  it  was  resolved,  24th  March,  witli  an 
ovenvhelniing  majority:  "  AVhere  the  edict  of  Worms,  (Mhich  had 
in  view  the  suppression  and  extirpation  of  the  Reformation,)  has 
b.-en  put  in  force,  all  religious  innovation,  as  hitherto,  remains 
forbidden;  but  where  it  has  been  departed  from,  and  where  its 
.  introduction  without  tunmlt  is  not  possible,  no  farther  steps  at 
h'ast.  .sliall  be  taken  in  reformation,  no  questions  of  controversy 
shall  be  discussed,  the  Mass  shaU  not  be  forbidden,  no  Catholic 
shaU  pass  over  to  Lutheranism,  the  Episcopal  jurisdiction  shall 
not   l)e  declined,  ixud  neither  Anabaptists  nor  Sacramentalistsf 
shall  be  tolerated."     The  reformed  princes  and  deputies  of  towns 
handed  in  against  this  resolution  the  famous  Protest,  "because 
the   majoritrj   has  no  poiver   in   questions   of  conscience."      In 
reference  to  the  suppression  of  the  Keformation,  the  Protest  said : 
"  Although  it  be  generally  known  that  in  our  states  the  holy 
sacrament  of  the  body  and  blood  of  our  Lord  is  administered  in 
a  pn.pcr  and  befitting  manner,  we  cannot  accept  the  terms  of  the 
edict  against  the  Sacramentalists,  because  the  Imperial  letter  of 
eonvocation  has  not  spoken  of  them,  because  they  have  not  been 
tried,  and  nothing  can  be  decided  on  so  important  a  matter  before 
the  next  general  Council."     The  adherents  of  Zwingli's  doctrine 
nf  the  Supper  owed  this  just  regard  to  their  interests  as  much  to 
the  skilful  and  infiuential  mediation  of  the  landgrave  Philip  von 
Hessen,  and  Sheriff  James  Sturm  of  Strasburg,  as  to  the  sense  of 
justice  of  the  other  Protestant  princes  and  deputies,  Melanchthon 
also,  who  had  come  to  Speyer  witli  the  Elector  of  Saxony,  writes: 
AMiat  just  reproaches  would  we  draw  upon  ourselves  by  con- 

•  John  Haner  writes  nftinvards,  in  December  1529.  to  Bucer,  on  this  subject: 
"  I  was  the  first  who  took  the  trouble  of  persuading'  tlio  lan.lpave,  Von  Ilesscn, 
to  attenij.t  a  rcoonciliation  between  the  contending  parties,  and  this  took  place 
even  as  early  as  the  Hrst  Diet  at  Speyer." 

t  So  the  adherents  of  Zwinpli's  doctrine  of  the  Supper  were  called  after  the 
pxani|)le  of  Luther. 

V 


338  ATTEMPTS  AT  UNION. 

demning  a  doctrine  without  having  heard  those  who  would  defend 
it."  Eck  and  Faber's  plan  of  dividing  the  Evangelicals,  in  order 
the  more  easily  to  suppress  them,  was  thus  frustrated.  Upon 
Philip  von  Hessen's,  however,  desiring  to  foiiii  a  defensive 
alliance  between  the  reformed  princes  and  towns,  to  hold  in 
check  the  papal  party  who  were  closely  united  under  the  Arch- 
duke Ferdinand,  the  princes  under  the  influence  of  Luther  refused 
to  join  it  unless  the  adherents  of  Zwingli's  doctrine  of  the  Supper 
would  give  up  their  opinions,  and  accept  Luther's  doctrine  of  the 
sacrament.  On  this  account  the  Landgrave  felt  himself  the  more 
induced  to  enter  into  Haner's  proposal,  and  to  endeavour  to  effect 
an  understanding  and  reconciliation  between  the  two  Eeformers. 
With  this  object  in  view,  he  invited  from  Speyer  Zwingli  and . 
Luther,  with  their  friends,  to  a  disputation  upon  the  subject  of 
dispute,  at  Marburg,  and  wrote  on  the  9th  May  1529  to  Zwingli : 
"  We  are  at  present  busily  engaged  in  bringing  together  to  a 
suitable  place  of  meeting  Luther,  Melanchthon,  and  others,  who 
are  nearly  of  your  opinion  upon  the  sacrament,  to  see  if  the 
almighty  and  merciful  God  would  grant  us  grace  to  compare  the 
said  article  of  belief  upon  the  foundation  of  Holy  Scripture,  and 
enable  us  to  live  in  a  harmonious  and  unanimous  understanding 
upon  the  point,  for  at  this  Diet  the  papists  knew  not  better  to 
defend  their  perversions,  abuses,  and  corruptions,  than  by  saying 
that  we  who  pretend  to  cling  to  the  pure  Word  of  God  are  not 
united  in  doctrine  and  faith  among  ourselves  ;  and  verily  if  we 
were  united,  their  knavery  would  soon  come  to  an  end.  Where- 
fore our  most  gracious  request  to  you  is,  that  you  would  use  your 
best  endeavours  to  put  the  matter  upon  a  right  foundation,  and 
brins  us  all  to  one  Christian  and  unanimous  sentiment." 
Zwingli  was  ready  at  once  to  accept  the  invitation  of  the  Land- 
grave, although  he  would  rather  have  seen  Strasburg,  or  some 
other  tow^n  more  between  Wittenberg  and  Zurich  fixed  upon  as 
the  meeting-place  of  the  conference.  "  If,  however,"  he  answers 
the  Landgrave,  "  Marburg  is  to  be  the  place  of  meeting,  I  shall 
pray  the  Lord  that  He  may  conduct  me  safely  thither  to  the 
praise  of  His  glory.  And  I  shall,  indeed,  repair  thither,  even 
although  my  lords  of  the  Council  should  not  be  quite  agreed 
about  it,  if  only  it  be  not  against  the  will  of  God,  and  the  weal 
of  His  Church;  for  I  entertain  the  confident  hope  that  the  ray 


ATTEMPTS  AT  UNION.  330 

of  truth,  when  we  come  together,  will  eulitrhtcn  our  eyes,  so  that 
we  shall  give  the  honour  to  truth,  and  let  her  reign."     The  town- 
sherif};  James  Sturm,  who  supported  the  Landgrave's  invitation 
to  Zwmgh,  expressed  his  hope  that,  "  as  the  prince  was  ardently 
desirous  of  his  presence,  he  might,  if  not  with  his  opponents  with 
the  prince  himself,  effect  much  good,  and  I  have  eveiy  confidence 
that^it  will  be  to  the  glory  of  God,  and  the  general  advantage" 
At  Zwmgh's  request,  the  landgrave,  in  two  separate  letters  had 
besought   the  Councils  of  Zurich  to   grant   the    Eeformer  the 
necessary  leave  of  absence  to  attend  this  friendly  (not  disputa- 
tious) conference.    The  little  CouncU  were  unable  to  make  up  their 
mind  upon  the  conceding  of  this  request,  and  finally  they  resolved 
to  leave  the  decision  in  the  hands  of  the  great  Council,  conceiv- 
ing they  could  not  well  dispense,  in  the  then  dangerous  position 
of  the  country,  (immediately  after  the  Capeller  war,)  with  the 
advice  and  assistance  of  Zwingli,  and  also  that  they  ought  not 
to  expose  the  excellent  man  to  the  dangers  of  so  distant  a  jour- 
ney in  part  through  a  hostile  temtoiy.     Zwingli,  with  whom 
anxiety  for  the  union  and  peace  of  the  reformed  Church  out- 
weighed every  political  and  personal  consideration,  thought  it 
best  not  to  await  the  decision.     He  took  the  road  on  the  ni^^ht 
preceding  the  first  month  of  han-est,  accompanied  by  Professor 
Co  linus*  from  Zurich  to  Basle,  leaving  behind  him  a  letter 
addressed  to  the  little  and  great  Councils,  in  which  he  explained 
the  motives  that  led  him  to  take  this  step.     "  The  lords  of  the 
common  Council,"  he  says,  "not  having  expressly  refused  me 
leave  of  absence,  but  having  resolved  to  bring  the  matter  before 
you  on  the  ensuing  week,  I  feared,  on  the  one  hand,  that  your 
Worships  might  not  concede  my  request,  while,  on  the  other 
hand,  something  has.  in  the  meantime,  transpired  to  precipitate 
affairs,  so  that  I  am  unwHling  to  wait  tiU  next  week      \Miile 
realising  the  present  state  of  warlike  matters,  the  dangers  the 
scarcity,  which  might  induce  me  to  remain  here,  I  have  also  con- 
sidered the  grace  of  the  ever  faithful  God,  who  has  never  aban- 
doned u...  and  who  will  overrule  all  for  the  well-being  of  His  own 
people,  and  for  His  own  glorj'.     I  have  therefore  in  haste  taken 
the  road,  because  I  foresaw,  from  your  great  fidelity  towards  me, 

•  AcoordinK  to  the  account  of  Bemhard   Uris.,   the  bookseller,  Christoffel 
Froschauer  accompanied  him  al.^o.  v.nnstotJel 


o 40  ATTEMPTS  AT  UNION. 

and  the  care  you  have  of  me,  you  would  not  have  given  me  any 
leave  of  absence  at  all."  After  acknowledging  the  great  dangers 
to  which  he  exposes  himself,  he  continues :  "  It  appeared  to  me 
not  proper  that  I  should  be  absent,  because  a  full  deliberation 
would  have  been  thereby  rendered  impossible,  and  the  journey 
of  many  excellent  men  of  the  opposite  party  have  been  made  in 
vain.  And  they  might  have  interpreted  my  non-appearance  to 
a  desire  to  shun  so  friendly  a  conference.  On  which  account  I 
most  humbly  beseech  your  Worships  not  to  interpret  my  hasty 
departure  to  any  slighting  of  your  authority,  contempt  of  which 
I  cannot  bear  to  see  in  others,  but  to  reflect  that  my  absence 
from  the  conference  might  prejudice  the  truth,  and  your  good 
name.  Finally,  my  lords,  have  good  hope  towards  God,  that  if 
He  permit  us  to  reach  the  end  of  our  journey.  He  will  grant  to 
us  His  help  to  defend  resolutely  His  truth,  and  not  to  disgrace 
His  Church."  He  farther  begs  that  as  the  men  of  Basle  had 
resolved  to  send  along  with  CEcolampad  a  deputy  of  the  Council, 
(Ealph  Frei  had  been  appointed,)  they  would  send  after  him 
Councillor  Ulrich  Funk  to  Basle.  "  The  chief  men  of  my  most 
gracious  lords  being  so  bowed  down  with  age  and  bodily  infirmity 
as  to  make  a  long  journey  too  onerous  for  them  ;  for  we  shall 
have  to  ride  through  dark  pathless  woods,  through  bush  and  brake, 
to  which  hardships  not  every  one  may  be  exposed."  In  con- 
clusion, he  recommends  them  and  his  journey  with  all  the  faith- 
ful to  the  protection  of  God.  His  departure  was  so  secret  that 
it  was  only  at  Basle  he  begged  Master  StoU  "  to  mention  to  his 
wife  as  much  as  it  was  expedient  for  a  wife  to  know ;  for  I  took 
leave  of  her  without  letting  her  know  anything  more  than  that 
I  had  gone  to  Basle,  where  I  had  some  business  to  transact." 

During  his  absence  Comthur  Conrad  Schmidt  preached  for 
him,  a  very  talented,  courageous,  and  learned  man,  as  Bullinger 
calls  him.  Zwingli's  enemies  leapt  for  joy  when  they  heard  of 
his  secret  departure.  "  He  has  taken  leg  bail  with  the  rogues," 
said  some;  "the  devil  appeared  to  him  and  ran  off  with  him," 
said  others.  In  Graubund  a  report  was  circulated  he  was 
drowned  at  Bruck,  along  with  four  Councillors.  Such  malicious 
and  absurd  stories  were,  as  Bullinger  observes,  invented  and  told 
without  number.  The  Zurich  Council  resolved,  in  the  end,  to 
grant  the  leave  of  absence,  and  sent  after  him,  without  delay. 


ATTEMPTS  AT  UNION.  ;VH 

Cuuiicillur  UJrich  Funk,  with  a  servant,  and  a  satV-conduet-ljox 
to  Baslo,  where  the  Reformer  had  liappily  arrived,  and  M'a« 
lodged  Mitli  liis  dear  friend  a:eohinipad.  On  the  6th  of  Sep- 
tember the  two  Reformers  went  on  lioard  a  vessel  with  some 
reliable  merchants,  and  in  thirteen  hours  reached  Strasburg  l)y 
water,  and  proceeded  straiglit  to  tlie  house  of  Canon  Matthias 
Zett*  Here  they  sojoiirned  till  the  22d  September;  Zwingli 
preached  m  ith  great  acceptance  in  the  town.  They  then  pro- 
ceeded on  tlieir  journey,  accompanied  by  tlie  Town-Sheriff  James 
Sturm,  and  the  ministers  Bucer  and  Medio,  by  a  circuitous  route 
through  the  tenitory  of  the  Palatine  of  Zweibruecken  to  the 
Hessian  fortified  town  of  St.  Goar,  and  from  hence,  under  Hessian 
escort,  in  the  company  of  the  Councillor  James  of  Taubenheim 
to  Marburg,  where  they  arrived  on  the  29th  September,  and  took 
up  their  quarters  in  the  first  house  eastward  of  the  Bears '-Well. 

In  sad  contrast  to  the  gladsome  readiness  with  which  Zwingli 
exposed  himself  to  the  dangers  of  a  distant  journey,  his  serene 
courage,  the  joyous  hope  that  animated  him,  that  the  proposal  of 
the  Landgrave  might  turn  out  to  the  honour  of  Christian  truth 
and  Christian  love  ;  in  sad  contrast  to  this,  is  the  mood  of  mind 
in  which  Luther  and  Melanchthon  regarded  the  Conference,  and 
the  secret  arts  they  employed  to  prevent  its  l)eing  holden  at  all 
]\relanclithon  wrote  to  the  Elector  John  Frederick  of  Saxony, 
begging  him  to  demj  to  Luther  and  himself  leave  of  absence  for 
the  journey;  for  Luther  feared:  "  It  might  neither  be  good  nor 
salutaiy  to  speak  much  upon  the  sul)ject  with  their  opponents, 
seeing  there  was  no  hope  at  present  of  bringing,  at  least,  the 
heads  of  the  party  to  a  better  way  of  thinking.    I  know,  however," 
he  continues,  "  how  much  this  matter  lies  at  the  heaii  of  the 
landgrave,  and  fear  that  if  Luther  should  decline  this  Conference 
with  his  opponents  his  Highness  might  then  manifest  no  small 
favour  and  condescension  to  Zwingli.     The  doctrine  of  our  oppo- 
nents is,  besides,  extremely  attractive,  and  rejoices  in  the  assent 
of  veiy  many  men  having  a  great  name  for  learning  in   Ger- 

^  *  His  wife,  the  learned  Catherine  Zctt,  so  tanmns  l.v  her  eorre.xiH.n.lei.ce  with 
Superintendent  Uahus  writes  in  one  of  her  letters  to  Hal.ns:  "  I  was  fourteen 
days  maid  and  rook  when  the  dear  homely  men  CKcolampnd  and  Zwinpli  were 
here  at  Strasl.nrg.  in  the  year  twenty-nine  (l.'>29).  in  the  jonniev.  alonp  xsith  on, 
folks  to  Marhiirg  to  Dr.  Luther." 


342  ATTEMPT  AT  UNION. 

many;*  on  this  account  a  conference  is  all  the  more  dangerous. 
But  most  lamentable  of  all  is  the  singular  demand,  '  that  in  the 
event  of  the  Conference's  taking  place,  some  of  the  Papists  should 
he  admitted,  in  the  capacity  of  impartial  witnesses,  as  otherwise, 
no  impartial  judges  being  present,  the  Zwinglians  might  easily 
boast  of  victory." -f-  Upon  the  Elector's  declining  to  do  this  hole 
and  corner  work  which  Luther  and  Melanchthon  suggested  to 
him,  they  turned  to  the  Landgrave.  Melanchthon,  among  other 
things,  wrote  to  him,  "  Martin  fears  that  no  good  fruit  will  come 
of  this  Conference.  Wherefore,  ought  it  not  to  be  a  matter  of 
consideration  whether  or  not  it  be  good  to  undertake  it  at  all?" 
Meanwhile,  Melanchthon  passed  his  time  in  unspeakable  anxiety 
on  the  subject,  and  bitterly  repented  that  he  had  not  consented, 
at  the  Diet  of  Spires,  to  the  condemnation  of  Zwingli  and  his 
adherents.  Luther  wrote  to  the  Landgrave :  "  Although  I  have 
but  poor  hopes  of  such  a  peace,  your  Eoyal  Highness'  zeal  and 
care  in  this  matter  are  much  to  be  commended,  &c.  &c.,  for  in 
truth  I  will  not  leave  the  opposite  party  the  glory  of  being  more 
inclined  to  peace  and  union  than  I  am.  But  I  have  especially 
to  beg  that  your  Eoyal  Highness  would  be  graciously  pleased  to 
ascertain  if  this  party  be  at  all  inclined  to  recede  from  their 
opinion,  for  if  not  the  evil  will  be  aggravated.  For  of  what  use 
is  a  meeting  and  a  conference,  if  both  parties  are  determined  not 
to  yield?     It  appears  to  me  as  if  they  sought,  through  the  zeal  of 

*  "  Did  it  stand  thus  with  Luther's  lauded  confidence  in  the  self-evident  clear- 
ness and  simplicity  of  his  doctrine?"  inquires  Ebrard. 

t  Melanchthon  sought  to  defend  this  very  strange  proposal,  by  saying  that 
the  Papists,  when  they  saw  the  Lutherans  and  Zwinglians  collecting  together  in 
a  large  body,  might  say,  with  some  shew  of  reason,  they  Avere  hatching  a  con- 
spiracy against  the  Emperor.  But  Ebrard  justly  observes:  "  He  does  not  desire 
to  have  the  Papists  present  simply  as  witnesses  that  no  conspiracy  was  forming 
against  the  Emperor,  (by  theologians!)  but,  in  fact,  as  umpires,  to  the  end  that 
the  Swiss  might  have  the  worst  of  it.  It  is  here  evident  that  behind  the  lofty- 
sounding  phrases  of  Luther  of  the  immoveable  certainty  of  his  doctrine,  and 
the  contemptibleness  of  his  opponents,  there  lay  concealed  the  gi-eatest  anxiety 
and  fear  on  his  part,  lest  these  very  adversaries  might  carry  off  the  victory  in 
public  estimation.  So  he  says,  '  It  is  not  well  that  the  landgrave  has  much  to 
do  with  the  Zwinglians;  he  has  more  inclination  to  them  than  is  good.  The 
matter  is  of  that  kind  that  it  easily  affects  men  of  acute  minds,  such  as  I  hold  the 
Landgrave  to  be.'  Thus  he  was  so  far'untnie  to  himself  and  his  own  honour  as 
to  desire  papistical  auxiliaries  in  this  matter  as  'impartial.'" — Ebrard,  "The 
Dogma  of  the  Holy  Supper,"  Second  Part,  page  304. 


ATTEMPTS  AT  UNION.  34-3 

your  Griice,  to  effect  a  piece  of  work  out  of  w  liieh  iiu  good  will 
come.  I  know  the  devil  well,  and  what  he  seeks,  but  may  God 
grant  that  I  be  here  no  prophet.  For  if  there  were  not  some 
base  design,  and  if  they  really  were  in  earnest  after  peace,  they 
had  hardly  entered  upon  the  aflau'  so  gi-andly,  and  with  the  aid 
of  so  mighty  and  great  princes ;  for  by  God's  grace  we  are  not 
so  wild  jind  profligate.  They  might  long  ago,  and  even  still,  by 
writing,  have  made  their  humble  endeavoui's  to  obtain  peace,  as 
they  boast  of  having  made  them.  For  I  know  well  that  I  shall 
not  yield  to  them  a  hairbreadth ;  nor  can  I,  because  I  am  per- 
fectly certain  that  they  are  in  the  wrong,  while  they,  on  the  other 
hand,  are  in  doubt.  And  this  is  sure,  that  if  we  do  not  yield,  we 
shall  separate  from  one  another  without  fruit."*  Tlie  Landgrave 
had  just  as  little  disjjosition  to  give  way  to  these  scniples  as  the 
Elector  of  Saxony,  and  so  Luther  was  forced  to  make  up  his 
mind  to  the  journey  to  Marburg,  however  reluctantly,  if  he  would 
not  positively  oflend  the  Landgrave,  and  throw  him  entirely  on 
the  side  of  Zwingli.  Accompanied  by  Justus  Jonas,  Melanch- 
thon,  Caspar  Cruciger,  Frederick  Mecum,  Justus  Menius,  and 
the  Chur-Saxon  Ammann  von  der  Tann,  -who  was  given  him  for 

*  Ebrard  remarks  upon  this  in  his  "  Dogma  of  the  Supper,"  Second  Part, 
page  306.  "How  naive!  Zwingli  is  challenged  to  a  public  disputation,  and  is 
willing  to  come.  Luther  is  lull  of  anxiety,  but  now  blames  Zwingli  for  having 
sought  and  occasioned  the  disputation,  and  again  that  he  wavers  in  his  opinion. 
Luther  will  not  leave  the  glorj'  of  pacification  to  his  adversary,  but  requires  he 
should  have  testified  in  writing  'his  humble  endeavours  for  peace,'  and  demands 
this  from  one  who,  for  years  long,  had  replied  to  his  outbreaks  of  passion  in  an 
humble  and  pacific  spirit,  lie  assures  him  '  we  are  not  so  wild  and  profligate.' 
Luther  demonstrates  the  inutility  of  a  disputation  where  '  both  parties  come 
together  with  the  resolution  not  to  yield,'  and  concludes  from  hence  that  Zwingli 
must  yield,  for  he  (Luther)  will  come  with  the  resolve  not  to  yield  a  hair- 
breadth. What  self-irony!  Luther  did  not  come  to  prove  and  to  weigh,  free  of 
prejudice,  the  arguments  of  his  opi)oncnt,  but  from  the  very  first  to  reject  them. 
lie  did  not  come  with  any  confidence  in  the  truth  of  his  doctrine,  that  it  would 
sustain  a  fair  trial,  but  he  came  concealing  behind  the  pretensions  which  he  put 
fonvard  that  his  adversarj-  from  the  first,  that  is  before  the  hearing  and  exami- 
nation of  the  arguments  of  both  the  parties,  should  make  the  ]»romise  that  he 
was  willing  to  yield;  he  came  concealing  behind  this  the  fear,  the  consciousness 
of  the  factitious  character  and  impotency  of  his  own  arguments.  He  did  not 
come  with  the  consciousness  of  being  a  man  liable  to  err,  whose  mind,  however 
clear  and  well-intentioned,  was  yet  of  limited  cajmcity.  but  he  came  with  the 
consciousness  of  unerringness  and  infallibility,  he  came  in  a  subtle  self'-deifim- 
tion,  which  cannot  tie  <lenied." 


344!  ATTEMPTS  AT  UNION. 

escort,  Luther  took  his  way  over  Halle,  Gotha,  and  Eisenach. 
Not  finding  at  Kreuzburg,  on  the  Hessian  frontier,  any  written 
assurance  of  safe-conduct  through  the  country  of  the  Landgi^ave, 
he  could  not  resolve  on  proceeding,  but  waited  till  he  received  a 
formal  letter  of  safe-conduct  from  Philip.*  The  Landgrave  was 
very  angry  at  this  exhibition  of  mistrust.  "  Zwingli,"  said  he, 
"  has  come  hither  with  his  people  all  the  way  from  Switzerland 
without  desiring  from  us  a  safe-conduct,  while  Luther  demands 
one,  as  if  he  could  not  trust  us."  The  Saxons  arrived  at  Marburg 
on  the  30th  September,  a  day  after  the  Swiss  and  Strasburg  men, 
and  put  up  at  the  Hotel  of  the  Bear  (No.  53  Bare-foot-friar 
Street.)  The  Landgrave,  however,  invited  both  parties,  imme- 
diately after  their  arrival,  to  take  up  their  residence  at  the  Castle, 
hoping  by  this  means  to  bring  the  leaders  nearer,  and  to  inspire 
them  with  friendly  sentiments  towards  each  other.  Philip  enter- 
tained them  at  the  Castle  in  a  right  princely  manner,  so  that 
Justus  Jonas  was  led  to  make  the  observation,  "  We  are  treated 
thus  magnificently  in  these  Hessian  woods,  not  from  love  to  the 
Muses,  but  from  a  regard  to  the  glory  of  God  and  of  Christ." 

According  to  an  arrangement  proposed  by  the  Landgrave, 
Zwingli  and  Melanchthon,  on  the  one  hand,  and  Luther  and 
(Ecolampad,  on  the  other,  were  to  converse  together,  and  endea- 
vour to  come  to  a  mutual  understanding,  it  being  considered 
dangerous  to  permit  the  two  more  vehement  leaders,  excited  as 
they  were  by  the  recent  polemical  war  in  which  they  had  been 
engaged,  to  dispute  all  at  once,  while  it  was  held  that  the  way 
to  an  understanding  could  be  more  easily  smoothed  by  (Ecolam- 
pad and  Melanchthon,  who  were  meeker  and  more  inclined  to 
make  concessions.  On  Friday  the  1st  October,  Zwingli  and 
Melanchthon  were  conducted,  after  public  worship,  into  a  private 
chamber,  that  these  combatants  might  try  their  strength  on  one 
another.  The  Saxons  having  never  taken  the  trouble  to  mak>e 
themselves  acquainted  with  the  views  and  doctrines  of  the  Swiss 
from  their  own  writings,  but  having  blindly  adopted  every  report 
about  their  lives  and  doctrines,  however  absurd  it  might  be, 

*  What  a  strong  contrast  does  this  pusillanimous  anxiety  present  to  the  noble 
heroism  which  eight  years  before  he  shewed  on  his  journey  to  Worms.  The 
heroic  spirit  appears  to  have  departed  from  him  after  he  plunged  into  this 
unhappy  controversy,  bearing  with  him  all  his  passions  into  it. 


ATTEMPTS  AT  UNION.  34o 

brought  a  long  catiilogue  of  heresies  with  them  to  jNIarburg, 
with  which  they  intended  to  charge  their  adversaries.  At  the 
very  coniniencenient,  IMehnichthon  had  to  learn  that  his  concej)- 
tion  of  Zwingli's  views  was  incorrect.  He  accused  the  Swis.s 
Keformer  of  heterodoxy  upon  the  divinity  of  Christ  and  the 
Trinity,  while  Zwingli  proved  that  in  both  these  doctrines  he 
entirely  concurred  with  the  first  creeds  of  the  Church.  To  this 
singularly  eiToneous  opinion,  the  Saxons  had  allowed  themselves 
to  be  led  astray  by  the  report  concerning  a  writing  of  the  same 
Lewis  lletzer,  who  first  commenced  the  breaking  of  the  Church 
images  in  Switzerland,  (see  Fourtli  Section,  Chapter  vii.)  in 
which  he  denied  Christ's  divinity  and  tlie  Trinity,  which  writing, 
however,  had  been  suppressed  before  publication  at  the  intei-ven- 
tion  of  Zwingli.  In  Luther  and  Melanehthon's  rambling  and 
confused  notions  about  Swiss  persons  and  events,  Hetzer  and 
Zwingli  were  confounded,  so  that,  while  they  had  hitherto  laid 
to  the  charge  of  the  latter,  without  any  scruple,  all  the  heresies 
of  the  former,  ^lelanchthon  was  not  a  little  astonished  when 
Zwingli  convinced  him  that  he  had  nothing  in  common  with 
these  and  similar  fanatics,  but,  on  the  contrary,  was  at  strife 
with  them,  being  not  less  vilified  and  hated  by  them  than  Luther 
and  Melanchthon  were  by  Thomas  Muenzer  and  his  conipanion.s. 
The  second  heresy  the  Saxons  laid  to  the  charge  of  Zwingli 
related  to  his  doctrine  on  original  siiL  From  the  distinction 
Zwingli  drew  between  the  oiiginal  corruption  of  our  nature,  of 
which  he  had  a  deeper  conception  than  most,  and  actual  sin, 
they  fancied,  according  to  the  false  reports  they  had  heard,  that 
he  denied  original  sin  altogether,  and  placed  the  essence  of  sin 
in  the  actual  outward  deed,  like  the  Pelagians  and  Papists. 
Here  Melauchthon  and  he  were  at  one,  "  that  original  sin  is 
a  defect  derived  from  Adam,  which  renders  it  impossible 
for  man  to  love  God,  and  which  damns  him."  In  the  same 
manner,  Zwingli  answered  Melanehthon's  empty  accusation, 
that  he  denied,  like  Thomas  Muenzer,  the  illumination  of 
the  Holy  Spirit  by  the  "Word,  explaining  himself  thus:  "The 
Hilly  Ghost  works  in  us  justification  through  the  Word  preached 
and  apprehended,  that  is,  through  the  soul  and  kernel  of  the 
Word,  through   the   thought  and   will  of  (lod  wrajipcd  np  and 


346  ATTEMPTS  AT  UNION. 

delivered  in  the  human  Word."*  It  was  more  difficult  to  come 
to  an  understanding  on  the  doctrine  of  the  Supper.  Melanchthon 
avoided  any  profound  discussion  of  this  question,  seeking,  like 
an  eel,  to  escape  his  opponent,  and  assuming  a  thousand  forms 
like  a  proteus  ;f  luit  he  was  soon  made  to  experience  that  he  was 
opposed  to  one  who  was  not  to  be  outdone  by  any  such  gymnas- 
tic dexterity,  and  who  was  perfectly  able  to  keep  a  firm  hold  of 
the  subject  of  examination,  until  it  was  more  closely  investigated. 
Zwingli  took  up  a  pen  and  wrote  down  the  arguments,  objections, 
and  admissions  of  Melanchthon,  so  that  he  might  not  be  able  to 
shift  or  change  his  ground.  The  latter  admitted  that  we  paiiake 
of  the  body  and  blood  of  Christ  spiritually,  by  believing  on  Him, 
who  hath  given  himself  for  us.  He  likewise  admitted  that  in 
John,  chap,  vi.,  the  Lord  speaks  of  corporeal  eating,  declaring  it 
to  be  profitless,  the  Capernaumites  fancying  they  were  to  eat  His 
tlesh  corporeally,  and  drink  His  blood  corporeally.  He  farther 
declared,  that  they,  the  Lutherans,  did  not  hold  the  view  that  the 
body  and  blood  of  the  Saviour  were  received  into  the  mouth  in 
any  defined  or  gross  manner,  but  that  this  body  was  truly  par- 
taken of,  although  in  a  manner  hid  from  the  sense  of  our 
faculties.     To  this,  the  reply  was  made  by 

Zwingli :  This  hidden  manner,  however,  cannot  be  proved  by 
Scripture. 

Melanchthon:  It  is  proved  by  the  Lord  saying,  "This  is  my 
body,  this  is  my  blood." 

Z'wingli :  The  body  of  which  the  Lord  speaks  in  these  words 
is,  however,  alone  His  real  material  body,  which  can  only  be  in 
one  place,  and  not  eveiywhere  at  the  same  time ;  as  Augustine 
thus  speaks  of  it. 

Melanchthon :  Although  Augustine  says  it,  I  cannot  accept  it. 

Zwingli:  The  Lord  himself  speaks  thus,  in  reference  to  his 
body,  in  the  Gospel  of  John  xvii.  11:    "And   now   I  am   no 

*  Dr.  Julius  Miiller,  in  the  tliird  number  of  "  Studies  and  Criticisms,"  year 
1856,  has  admirably  and  most  perspicuously  developed  the  relation  between  the 
efficiency  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  the  means  of  grace  in  the  Word.  The  result 
of  the  investigations  of  this  able  divine  very  nearly  agree  with  Zwingli's,  although 
he  makes  no  reference  to  him. 

t  The  relation  is  taken  from  a  conlidential  letter  of  Zwingli's  to  Vadian. 


ATTEMPTS  AT  UNION.  347 

mure  in  the  world;"  and  in  other  passages  he  propounds  the 
same  truth. 

Melanchthon :  The  words  of  Christ,  "  This  is  my  body," 
are  clear,  and  I  adhere  to  them  in  their  plain  and  simple 
sense. 

Zwingli :  It  is  a  false  assumption  that  your  interpretation  gives 
the  clear  sense  of  these  words. 

Not  being  able  to  come  to  an  agreement  on  this  point,  they 
both  agreed  to  break  oft'  the  coiilerence,  which  had  already  lasted 
six  hours,  and  which,  at  least,  impressed  Melanchthon  with  the 
convicti(5n  that  Zwingli  was  not  "  the  ignorant  fanatic"  he  had 
been  often  represented.  In  the  conference  betwixt  Luther  and 
(Ecolampad,  which  lasted  three  hours,  the  former  conducted  him- 
self in  a  manner  which  discovered  so  much  obstinacy  and  pre- 
sumption that  (Ecolampad,  on  passing  Zwingli,  whispered  into 
his  ear,  "  I  have  fallen  on  a  second  Dr.  Eck."* 

Tliese  inten'icws  being  declared  ended  on  the  Friday  evening, 
Zwingli,  confiding  in  the  truth  of  his  doctrine,  and  according 
to  the  principle  which  he  always  conceived  himself  bound 
to  maintain,  namely,  that  every  Christian  has  the  right  and 
liberty,  in  all  matters  of  religion,  to  form  his  opinions  for  him- 
self, according  to  the  rule  of  God's  Word,  and  under  the  guid- 
ance of  the  Holy  Spirit,  expressed  his  desire  that  a  public  Dis- 
putation should  be  held,  to  which  every  one  who  wished  it  should 
have  admission,  and  at  which  every  one  should  be  free  to  decide 
for  himself  what  opinion  he  should  adopt.  "While  Luther,  on  the 
other  hand,  held  it  neither  to  be  expedient  nor  salutary  that  the 
Disputation  should  be  thrown  open  to  every  one,  the  landgrave 
and  liis  councillors,  in  concurrence  with  Duke  Ulrich,  of  Wir- 
teraberg,  decided  this  preliminary,  to  the  effect  that  a  select  circle 
only  of  nobles  and  deputies,  with  the  principal  men  of  learning, 
especially  of  the  Universities  of  Marburg  and  Wittcnljerg,  slioukl 
be  present.  There  were  accordingly  but  twenty-four  auditors  at 
the  commencement  of  the  Disputation,  which  number,  liowever, 
was  increa.sed  in  tlie  course  of  it,  and  rose  to  between  fifty  and 
sixty,  on  the  arrival  of  Jolin  Brenz,  Osiander,  and  Agricola  (of 

•  CEcolflmpnrl's  remark  had  reference  to  Eck's  coarse  and  arrogant  demeanour 
at  the  Baden  Dijiputation.  Certainly  a  heavy  charffe  against  Luther,  hut  iinfor- 
tiinatclv  one  that  was  too  well  merited. 


34<8  ATTEMPTS  AT  UNION. 

Augsburg.)*  The  Landgrave's  Chancellor,  John  Feige,  oi^ened 
the  Disputation,  in  a  speech,  in  which  he  exhorted  the  members 
"  that  they  should  act,  as  had  been  done  on  like  occasions,  when 
learned  men  came  together,  who  had  previously  written  some- 
what sharply  against  each  other,  that  is,  they  should  banish  from 
their  minds  all  ill-humour  and  bitterness  of  feeling.  Whoever 
should  do  this  would,  at  the  same  tune,  discharge  his  duty,  and 
obtain  glory  and  commendation.  Others,  however,  who  disre- 
garded unity,  and  who  obstinately  persisted  in  some  notion  once 
adopted  by  them  (the  mother  of  all  heresies),  would  thereby 
afford  indubitable  evidence  against  themselves  that  the  Holy 
Spirit  did  not  rule  in  their  hearts."  f  The  Landgrave,  so  simply 
attired  that  no  one  could  have  taken  him  for  a  prince,  took  his 
seat  at  the  same  table,  at  which  Zwingii  and  CEcolampad,  on  the 
one  side,  Luther  and  Melanchthon  on  the  other,  sat  to  decide 
whether  the  Keformed  Evangelical  Church,  resting  on  one  basis 
of  faith,  was  henceforth  to  remain  united,  or  wdiether  it  was  to  be 
rent  into  two  great  parties.  The  poet  Cordus,  cried  in  name  of 
the  Church  to  its  here  assembled  leaders:  "Puissant  princes  of 
the  Word,  whom  the  august  hero  Philip  has  called  to  avert  from 
us  schism,  and  to  shew  us  the  way  of  truth ;  the  imploring  church 
falls  at  your  feet,  drowned  in  tears,  and  conjures  you,  in  Christ's 
name,  to  set  forward  the  good  cause,  that  the  world  may  recog- 
nise in  your  resolutions  the  work  of  the  Holy  Ghost  himself" 
Before  the  Conference  began,  Luther  took  up  a  piece  of  chalk,  and, 
in  large  letters,  he  wi'ote  upon  the  table  the  words,  "  This  is  my 
body,"  with  the  object,  doubtless,  that,  when  arguments  failed,  he 
might  all  the  more  firmly  cling  to  the  outward  letter,  since, 
verily,  he  w^as  resolved  not  to  yield  a  hairbreadth." 

The  Conference  began  between  Luther  and  CEcolampad,  Luther 
defending  himself,  in  a  long  speech,  against  the  imputation  that 
he,  in  any  respect,  agreed  with  the  doctrine  of  the  Supper  held 

*  When  Zwiiidi  speaks  only  of  twenty-four,  and  Brenz  of  tifty  or  sixty,  as 
being  present,  the  ditference  is  reconciUible,  on  the  ground  that  Zwingii  speaks 
of  the  number  at  tlie  beginning,  Brenz  of  that  in  the  course,  or  at  the  end,  of  the 
Disputation.  Luther  having  written  to  Brenz  not  to  come  to  Marburg,  and  the 
l-Uter  having  written  to  Osiander,  and  others,  dissuading  them  from  making  then- 
appearance,  they  did  not  arrive  in  Marburg  till  a  day  and  a-halt  alter  the  Dis- 
putation had  begun. 

I  A  very  plain  hint  to  Luther. 


ATTEMPTS  AT  UNKi\.  449 

by  his  opponent.s ;  he  wa.s  at  variance  with  tlieiu  here,  and  would 
be  for  ever  so,  Christ  himself  having  said,  witli  sufficient  clear- 
ness, "Take,  eat,  this  is  my  body."*  By  the  letter  of  these 
words  he  would  abide.  If  his  adversaries  had  anything  to 
advocate  against  the  truth  he  would  hear  it,  and  answer  it. 
(Ecolampad  replied,  after  calling  upon  God  for  illumination,  "  It 
is  undeniable  that,  in  the  Word  of  God,  figurative  modes  of 
expression  occur  ;  thus,  for  example,  "  John  is  Elias,"  "  The  rock 
was  Christ,"  "  I  am  the  vine."  A  similar  figure  is  contained  in 
the  words,  "  This  is  my  body."  Luther  grants  there  are  tropes  in 
the  liible,  but  the  latter  passage  is  not  one  of  these.  He  inquires : 
Why  should  the  spiritual  partaking  exclude  the  corporeal? 

(Ecolampad :  Christ  teaches  the  Jews,  John  vi.,  who  thought 
Pie  exacted  from  them  the  eating  of  His  real  body,  and  the  drink- 
ing of  His  real  blood,  that  He  was,  in  verity,  eaten  and  drunk  when 
He  was  believed  upon,  for  that  His  flesh  profited  nothing  !  Now, 
that  which  Christ  rejected  in  John  vi.  He  cannot  well  be  sup- 
posed to  have  admitted,  or  commanded,  in  the  words  of  the  Holy 
Supper. 

Luther:  The  Jews  thought  they  were  to  eat  Christ  like  a  piece 
of  "  roasted  pork."  By  the  spiritual  partaking,  the  corjjoreal  is 
not  annulled. 

(Ecolampad :  To  impute  such  a  sense  to  the  words  of  Scripture 
is  to  give  them  a  sense  somewhat  gross.  That  Christ  is  in  the 
bread  is  a  notion,  and  no  subject  of  faith;  it  is  dangerous  to 
ascribe  so  much  to  the  outward  thin"- 

Luther :  If  we,  at  God's  command,  raise  a  straw-halm,  or  a 
horse-shoe,  from  the  ground,  it  is  a  spiritual  act.  We  must 
regard  Him  who  speaks,  not  that  which  is  said.  God  speaks, 
and  miserable  man  must  listen.  God  commands,  the  world  has 
to  obey,  and  we  all  ought  to  kiss  the  Word,  and  not  take  upon 
ourselves  to  look  for  arguments. 

(Ecolampad:  But  of  what  use  is  the  partaking  l)y  tlie  mouth 
when  we  have  that  by  the  Spirit  ? 

Luther:  I  do  not  concern  myself  as  to  what  we  require,  I  look 
only  at  the  words  as  they  stand  written:  "  This  is  my  body."  It 
is  to  be  believed  and  done  unconditionally.    It  must  be  done.    If 

•  Wlitch  13  given /or  you,  Luther,  with  good  rea.son,  always  let  drojj. 


350  ATTEMPTS  AT  UNION. 

God  were  to  command  me  to  eat  dung,  I  should  do  it,  knowing 
well  that  it  would  be  wholesome  for  me. 

Zwingli  now  took  part  in  the  dialogue.  He  began  by  admi- 
nistering a  sharp  rebuke  to  Luther  for  his  declaration  at  the  very 
outset  of  the  debate,  that  he  was  resolved  not  to  depart  from  the 
opinion  he  had  formed ;  for,  in  this  manner,  all  farther  instruction 
out  of  the  Scriptures  was  rendered  impossible.  Scripture  must 
always  be  interpreted  by  Scripture.  Were  we  to  adhere  to  the 
letter  of  the  text  we  must  conclude  that  Christ  had  full  brothers. 
The  sentences  of  Holy  Scripture  are  not  dark  or  enigmatical,  like 
the  oracular  responses  of  the  demons,  but  they  are  clear  and 
plain,  if  we  only  compare  the  one  mth  the  other.  He  then  went 
into  a  more  minute  exposition  of  the  section  in  John  vi.,  and 
drew  from  it  the  conclusion :  "  If  the  Lord  here  expressly  testifies 
that  His  flesh  profiteth  nothing  in  the  corporeal  partaking  of  it, 
He  certainly  would  neither  have  enjoined  upon  His  disciples,  nor 
upon  us,  in  the  Supper,  the  doing  of  a  profitless  thing,  that  is,  the 
corporeal  eating  of  His  body.  To  this  He  says  :  '  When  ye  shall 
see  the  Son  of  man  ascend  to  where  he  was  before,'  from  which 
they  might  conclude  that  they  are  not  to  eat  really,  or  corporeally, 
of  His  flesh." 

Luther  :  In  the  gospel,  "brother"  signifies  a  cousin,  or  a  rela- 
tion. The  words  of  institution  cannot  be  so  explained.  Christ 
says,  "  This  is  my  body,"  and  it  must  be  so.  Wlien  Christ  says, 
"  the  flesh  profiteth  nothing,"  He  is  not  speaking  of  His  own  but 
of  our  flesh. 

Zwingli :  The  soul  is  nourished  by  the  Spirit,  not  by  the  flesh. 

Luther :  The  body  is  eaten  by  the  mouth,  the  soul  does  not 
partake  of  it  corporeally. 

Ziuingli :  It  is  then  a  food  of  the  body  and  not  of  the  souL 

Luther:  I  have  said,  and  say  it  again,  the  body  is  not  corpo- 
really eaten  into  our  body,  and  will  reserve  it,  whether  the  soiil 
also  eats  it. 

Zwingli :  You  say  this,  however,  without  being  able  to  prove  it 
by  Scripture.  Besides,  you  first  denied  that  the  soul  eats  the 
body,  and  now  you  will  have  it  reserved. 

Luther:  Your  whole  object  is  to  catch  me  in  my  words. 

Zwingli:  No  ;  but  you  speak  of  things  that  contradict  each 
other,  and  it  is  necessary  to  point  out  the  truth. 


ATTEMPTS  AT  UNION.  ;^51 

Luther:  1  abide  by  the  words  of  Christ,  "This  is  my  body." 
They  are  the  words  of  God.  If  the  Lord  were  to  set  before  me 
wooden  apples,  and  command  me  to  eat  them,  I  should  eat  them, 
knowing  tlioy  would  be  wliolesome  for  me,  and  I  dare  not  ask  ' 
why? 

Zwingli  now  proved,  by  various  passages  of  Scripture,  that  the 
sign  is  often  put  for  the  thing  signified,  and  that  the  words  of 
the  Sacrament  especially  are  to  be  so  explained.  He  censured 
Luther  for  employing  so  silly  an  example  as  that  of  the  wooden 
apples.  Such  illustrations  were  not  in  place.  We  know  that 
God  neither  commands  us  to  eat  wooden  apples  nor  dung  as  His 
body.  The  Word  of  God  reveals  to  us  His  holy  will;  it  is  light, 
not  darkness.  God  sets  before  us  nothing  incomprehensible,  if 
if  we  wiU  but  only  rightly  understand  His  Word.  Hence,  if  one 
passage  is  not  clear  to  us,  we  must  compare  it  with  others,  and. 
in  this  manner,  investigate  into  the  sense.  Thus  the  Virgin 
Marj^  asked,  Luke  i.  34,  "How  shall  this  be?"  and  the  angel 
answered  her  question.  In  the  same  manner  the  disciples  asked, 
John  \\.  52,  "How  can  tliis  man  give  us  His  flesh  to  eat?"  A\Tiy 
shoidd  not  we  also  endeavour  to  discover,  from  Scripture,  how 
the  words  of  the  Holy  Supper  are  to  be  understood?  They  have, 
however,  been  interpreted  by  Christ  himself,  who  shewed  in  what 
manner  His  flesh  was  to  be  eaten,  and  His  blood  drunk. 

^  Luther :  We  are  not  to  examine  whether  is  may  be  taken  for 
si<inifies,  for  so  w^e  fall  into  inter pretising ;  but  we  are  to  take 
the  words  in  their  simple  sense,  "  This  is  my  body."  From 
thence,  pointing  at  the  words  written  before  him,  the  devil  himself 
cannot  pull  me.  Wlien  I  enter  into  subtle  inquiries  about  their 
meaning,  I  lose  my  faith  and  become  a  fool,  ^^^lerefore,  crive 
glorj'  to  God,  and  take  and  believe  the  simple  plain  letters  as 
they  stand. 

Zivingli:  1  exhort  you  likewise  to  give  God  the  glory,  by 
departing  from  the  false  inteq^retation  you  have  i)ut  upon  the 
words  of  Scripture,  by  an  assumption  of  the  very  thing  to  be 
proven,  petitio  principii.  AMiere  is  your  major  proposition, 
(that  the  words  bear  this  sense,)  proved  ?  We  shall  not  so  readily 
let  the  passage  in  the  sixth  chapter  of  John  slip  out  of  our  hands, 
as  it  throws  a  steady  light  upon  the  point  in  disjnitc,  and  shows 
us  distinctly  how  in  truth  and  verity  we  are  to  eat  Chri.st's  flesh 


3.")2  ATTEMPTS  AT  UNION. 

and  drink  His  blood.  Come,  doctor,  you  must  sing  us  another 
song  than  this,  for  this  won't  do. 

Luther  :  You  are  becoming  personal. 

Z'wingli :  I  ask  you,  Doctor,  if  Christ  did  not  mean  here  to 
correct  the  misunderstanding  of  the  Jews,  who  fancied  they  were 
to  eat  His  real  flesh  and  drink  His  real  blood  ? 

Luther :  Mr  Zwingii,  you  mean  to  take  me  by  surprise  ;  the 
passage  has  nothing  to  do  here. 

Zwingii:  Certainly  the  passage  has  to  do  here,  and  breaks 
your  neck,  Doctor. 

Luther:  Not  so  boastful,  remember  you  are  not  in  Switzerland 
now,  but  in  Hesse,  wdiere  necks  are  not  so  easily  broken. 

Zwingii:  In  Switzerland  there  is  law  and  justice,  as  well  as 
elsewhere,  and  no  man's  neck  is  broken  there  for  naught.  I  have 
only  made  use  of  a  common  phrase,  when  I  employed  this  ex- 
pression to  the  effect  that  your  case  was  gone,  that  you  could  do 
nothing  but  submit,  seeing  that  the  words  of  Christ  in  tlie  sixth 
chapter  of  John  totally  overthrow  your  doctrine. 

The  Landgrave  here  interfered,  saying  to  Luther,  "  I  hope  my 
learned  friend  the  Doctor  will  not  take  ill  what  has  been  said." 
If  Luther  had  but  reflected  on  his  usual  threat,  "  we  shall  bring 
the  villain  to  the  gallows,"  he  would  have  perceived  that  he  had 
no  great  reason  to  complain  of  Zwingli's  expression. 

It  being  now  exactly  noon,  the  Conference  adjourned  till  after 
dinner.  In  the  afternoon,  Zwingii  read  the  following  extract 
from  Luther's  Sermon  on  the  sixth  chapter  of  the  Gospel  of  John, 
"  Christ  himself  says  the  flesh  profiteth  nothing,  and  again,  my 
flesh  gives  life,  how  do  we  reconcile  this?  The  Spirit  reconciles  it. 
Christ  means  that  the  corporeal  eating  of  His  flesh  profits  nothing, 
nothing  profits  hut  the  faith  that  He  has  given  His  flesh  for  me, 
and  shed  his  blood  for  me.  If  I  believe  that  Christ  is  the  true 
Son  of  God,  that  He  hath  descended  from  heaven,  shed  His  blood 
for  me,  saved  me,  made  me  righteous  and  alive  from  the  dead,  I 
have  enough."  Melanchthon  had  explained  this  passage  in  a 
similar  way. 

Luther:  I  make  no  inquiry  how  Melanchthon  and  myself 
formerly  explained  this  passage.  Prove  to  me  that  when  Christ 
says  "  This  is  my  body,"  it  is  not  his  body.  I  take  my  stand 
and  abide,  and  not  without  grounds,  by  the  words  "  this  is  my 


ATTEMPTS  AT  UNION.  353 

body,"  hut  yet  I  do  nut  the  less  acknowledge  that  Christ'.s  ho.ly 
IS  in  heaven,  and  also  in  the  Sacrament.  I  am  not  concerned  as 
to  Its  being  against  reason  and  against  nature,  if  it  be  not  a.-ainst 
faith.  " 

Zivingli:  This  statement,  however,  undoulitedly  contravenes 
the  articles  of  faith,  "  He  hath  ascended  to  heaven,"  &c.  &c.  If 
Christ's  body  be  in  lu^aven,  how  can  it  at  the  same  time  be  in  tlie 
breacW  Gods  Word  teaches  us  that  Christ  was  in  all  points 
made  like  unto  His  brethren,  H(>b.  ii.  17.  His  body  then  cannot 
at  the  same  time  be  in  dillerent  places,  because  this  is  contrarv  to 
the  nature  of  a  real  body. 

Luthev:  If  He  hath  been  in  all  respects  like  to  us,  then  He  has 
had  a  will'  and  black  eyes.  I  have  said  it  before,  and  say  it 
again  :  I  will  have  nothing  to  do  with  the  Mathematical 

Zwingli:  I  am  not  speaking  of  the  Mathematica,  but  of  the 
^^  ord  of  God.  He  then,  in  order  to  show  that  Christ,  although 
of  Divine  nature,  had  taken  upon  Him  the  form  of  a  servant  and 
been  made  like  to  us,  cited  in  the  Greek  text  the  passage  from 
Philip,  ii.  7. 

Luther:  Let  Greek  alone,  quote  it  in  Latin  or  in  German. 
Ziumgli:  Excuse  me ;  during  the  last  twelve  vears,  I  have  only 
made  u.se  of  the  Greek  Xew  Te.staraent.     If  Christ  then  has  been 
made  like  to  us,  this  is  to  be  understood  of  His  human  nature 
Accordingly,  His  body,  like  everv-  other  human  bodv,  is  finite. 
Luther  :  I  admit  that  Christ's  body  is  finite. 
Zwingli :  If  it  is  finite,  it  is  also  limited,*  and  can  only  be  at 
one  and  the  same  time  in  one  place,  that  is  in  heaven,  and  not  in 
the  bread     But  now  you  teach  that  the  body  of  Christ  is  exovy- 
where  present. 

Luther:  You  always  seek  to  entrap  me.  If  I  speak  of  the 
body  of  Christ.  I  will  not  have  it  that  one  speak  or  think  of  a 
I)lace  ;  /  u'ill  not  have  it  at  all. 

Zwingli :  ^^^lat  sort  of  language  is  this  ?  Are  we  onl v  to  have 
^\•hat  you  will,  Doctor  ? 

♦  T^mher  coul.l  never  comprehend  that  the  two  i,lea<=.  finite  (  fi„itum)  nnrl 
limited  (circumscriptum)  were  synonymous,  and  he  would  never  admit  that  what 
IS  finite  ,s  necessarily  limited.  He  hence  involved  himself  in  a  confusion  of  ideas 
from  which  he  could  only  save  himself  by  his  boldly  setting  all  consequences  at 


Z 


854  ATTEMPTS  AT  UNION. 

Luther  :  The  schoolmen  have  also  maintained  that  a  finite 
body  can  be  in  several  places  at  once.  The  universe  is  a  body, 
and  yet  it  cannot  be  said  that  it  is  in  any  definite  place. 

Zwingli:  It  ill  becomes  you,  Doctor,  to  have  recourse  to  the 
onions  and  flesh-pots  of  Egypt,  to  the  Sophists  ;  I,  for  my  part, 
pay  no  regard  to  the  Sophists.  If  you  say  that  the  universe  is 
nowhere,  I  beg  all  intelligent  men  to  test  the  truth  of  this  asser- 
tion ;  you  were,  however,  to  make  good  that  the  body  of  Christ 
was  at  one  and  the  same  time  in  more  than  one  place. 

Luther:  Christ  says,  "this  is  my  body."  Now  the  Sacrament 
is  dispensed  in  many  places  at  once,  in  wdiich  one  partakes  not 
only  of  bread,  but  of  the  true  body  of  Christ,  hence  Christ's  body 
is  in  many  places  at  once. 

Zivingli :  This  does  not  follow  from  the  words  of  Christ,  the 
sense  of  which  we  are  here  investigating.  You  ever  assume 
that  your  understanding  of  these  words,  which  we  declare  to  be 
an  erroneous  and  false  one,  is  the  right  and  infallible  one,  and 
proceeding  from  this  false  assumption,  you  avail  yourself  of  the 
sophism  of  reasoning  in  a  circle.  Instead  of  which,  your  proper 
business  is  to  prove  and  establish  your  understanding  of 
these  words  to  be  the  true  and  right  one.  That  the  body  of 
Christ,  however,  is  limited  or  circumscribed  like  our  own,  and 
consequently,  can  only  be  at  one  time  in  one  place,  is  a  doctrine 
taught  us  by  the  Fathers.  Thus  Fulgentius*  says :  "  The  Son  of 
God  has  taken  upon  himself  the  quality  of  real  humanity,  and 
yet  not  less  that  of  real  divinity.  Born  of  His  mother  in  time 
He  is  yet  from  all  eternity,  in  virtue  of  the  Godhead  which  He 
has  from  the  Father.  Born  of  man.  He  is  man,  and  bound  to  a 
definite  place  ;  as  He  emanates  from  the  Father,  He  is  God, 
and  consequently  omnipresent.  In  His  human  nature.  He  was 
when  on  earth  absent  from  heaven,  and  He  left  the  earth  when 
He  ascended  to  heaven  :  in  His  divine  nature.  He  abode  in  heaven 
when  He  descended,  nor  did  He  leave  the  earth  when  He  ascended." 
You,  however,  dear  Doctor,  have  written  ere  now,  "  Every  thing 
is  full  of  the  body  of  Christ,"  and  "  if  Christ  had  not  suffered  in 
His  divine  nature.  He  were  not  my  Eedeemer." 

*  Fulgentius,  Bishop  of  Ruspe  (died  533),  made  himself  chieflj-  known  by  his 
defence  of  the  Aiigustinian  doctrine  of  predestination  and  election. 


ATTEMPTS  AT  UNION.  tVi 


Luther:  Fulovntius   is    not    hciv    speaking    of    the    Supper. 
-Moreover  he  calls  the   Supper   a   .sacrifice  too,    ajid  yet  it    is 


none. 


Zwingli:  Fulgent ius  is  here  speaking  of  tlie  qnalities  of 
( 'hrist's  humanity,  and  maintains  that  it  necessarily  follows  that 
as  man  He  can  only  be  corporeally  present  in  one  place.  If  that 
is  true  in  respect  of  Christ's  humanity  in  general,  it  is  likewise 
true  of  His  presence  in  the  Supper.  Wlxan  Fulgentius,  however, 
terms  the  Sujiper  a  sacrifice,  he  does  it  in  the  same  sense  as 
Augustine,  who  calls  it  a  sacrifice  as  he  himself  explains  his 
meaning,  because  it  is  a  commemoration  of  tlie  once  offered 
sacrifice  of  Christ. 

Luther,  after  a  few  struggles,  was  obliged  to  admit  this, 
but  fell  immediately  into  his  old  habit  of  reasoning  in  the 
'•ircle.  and  drew  tlie  conclusion  that  Christ's  body  may  be  in 
many  places  at  once,  because  He  says,  "  this  is  my  body,"  conse- 
(luently  He  is  now  there  in  the  bread. 

Zwingli  quickly  rejoining:  Is  He  there  in  the  bread  ?  then 
there  is  surely  in  one  place.     Methinks,  Doctor,  I  have  you. 

Luther :  As  God  will,  let  Him  be  in  one  place  or  not,  I  leave 
that  with  God  ;  to  me  it  is  enough,  and  I  abide  by  it,  tlmt  He 
says,  "  This  is  my  body." 

Zwhujli:  It  is  evident  to  every  one  that  you  argue  from  a 
false  a.ssumption,  that  3-ou  describe  a  reasoning  in  a  circle,  and 
that  you  thus,  intrenched  in  your  own  opinion,  obstinately  close 
your  eyes  against  all  instniction  from  the  Word  of  God.'  Tliis 
is  but  a  miserable  spite  on  your  part.  Doctor.  In  like  manner 
might  some  wilful  disputant  misinterpret  the  words  of  our  Lord 
to  his  mother,  "  Woman,  l)ehold  thy  son,"  persist  in  repeating 
them,  and,  despite  all  remonstrances,  never  cease  cn-ing,  No,  no, 
you  must  take  the  words  of  Christ  as  they  stand,  and  hold  simply 
by  tliem,  "  Woman,  l)eliold  thy  son."  Would  lie  achieve  aught 
else  here,  but  a  miserable  perversion  of  the  words  of  Chri.st  ?  "it 
is  just  what  you  are  doing.  Doctor.  The  holy  Augustine  writes  : 
"  We  dare  n..t  believe  that  Christ  in  human  form  is  ever^-wliere 
present,  we  dare  not,  to  establish  His  divinity,  abstract  the  realitu 
from  His  body.  Christ  as  God  is  omnipresent,  yet  by  reason  of 
His  true  body  He  is  in  one  ])lnre.  in  heaven." 


356  ATTEMPTS  AT  UNION. 

Luther  :  Augustine  is  not  here  speaking  of  the  Sacrament. 
The  body  of  Christ  in  the  Supper  is  not  as  in  one  pLace. 

Zwingli  declining  to  reason  any  farther  with  an  opponent 
who  withdrew  himself  from  every  species  of  close  and  consecutive 
argument,  and  who  overleapt  with  such  wonderful  audacity  the 
manifold  contradictions  into  which  he  plunged,  CEcolampad  now 
took  it  upon  him  to  answ^er  Luther.  In  reply  to  Luther's  last 
assertion,  which  had  been  already  thoroughly  disproved  by 
Zwinsli,  and  which  was  in  direct  contradiction  to  his  own  former 
admissions,  CEcolampad  observed  :  "  If  the  body  of  Christ  is  not 
locally  in  the  Supper,  then  it  is  not  there  as  a  real  body,  for,  as 
is  well  known,  it  belongs  to  the  essence  of  a  body  to  be  in  one 
definite  place.  Let  us  examine,  in  all  friendshij),  what  kind  of 
presence  this  is  of  the  body  of  Christ." 

Luther:  You  will  not  bring  me  a  single  step  farther.  If  you 
have  Fulgentius  and  Augustine  on  your  side,  we  have  the  rest 
of  the  Fathers. 

CEcolampad:  Please  name  these  Fathers,  and  quote  the  pas- 
sages you  refer  to.  We  trust  we  shall  be  able  to  prove  to  you 
that  they  are  of  our  opinion. 

Luther:  We  decline  naming  them.  Augustine  wrote  the  pas- 
sage you  have  quoted  in  his  youth,  it  is  moreover  very  unintel- 
ligible. Besides,  I  do  not  concern  myself  as  to  what  the  Fathers 
teach  on  this  head,  but  I  abide  by  the  w^ords  of  Christ.  (Here 
he  pointed  again  to  the  words  written  in  chalk  upon  the  table, 
"  This  is  my  body.")  See,  so  they  run.  You  have  not  driven  us 
out  of  this  stronghold,  as  you  proudly  imagined  you  would  do, 
and  we  concern  ourselves  no  farther  about  proofs. 

CEcolampad:  If  it  be  thus,  the  Conference  had  better  be 
closed.  We  have  appealed  to  the  Fathers  of  the  Church  for  the 
purpose  of  shewing  that  we  have  advanced  no  new  doctrine.  We 
do  not  build  upon  them,  but  upon  the  Word  of  God.  Every  one 
knows  who  Augustine  was,  and  that  when  he  expressed  his  sen- 
timents, he  not  only  delivered  his  own  opinions,  but  those  of  the 
whole  Church  of  his  day. 

Thus  the  Conference  concluded.  The  Chancellor,  Feige,  who 
for  his  part  adhered  to  the  Zwinglian  doctrine,  was  dismayed  at 
the  upshot.  But,  even  yet,  he  exhorted  both  parties  earnestly  to 
cultivate  peace,  as  he  had  done  at  the  beginning,  and  entreated 


ATTEMPTS  AT  UNIOX.  'S.')7 

tht'iii  to  tiiiiik  of  mcasuix's  which  mi<4ht  proiiiote  unity.  Luther 
observed,  "  I  know  of  uo  other  measures  but  that  they  give  glory 
to  the  Word  of  God,  and  believe  what  we  believe."  The  Swiss 
replied:  "We  cannot  do  so,  for  our  conscience  forbids  it.  We 
believe  that  Chri.st's  liody  and  blood  are  present  in  the  Supper  to 
the  believing  soul,  Init  not  in  the  bread  and  wine."  Luther:  "We 
have  then  done  with  you,  and  commend  you  to  the  just  judg- 
ment of  Ciod :  He  will  discover  who  is  right."  Then  (Ecolampad 
said :  "  We  do  the  same,  and  have  done  with  you."  Zwingli,  how- 
ever, was  so  deeply  moved  by  Luther's  ol)duracy  of  temper,  that 
he  was  unable  to  articulate  a  single  word;  his  eyes,  as  every  one 
saw,  were  swimming  in  tears. 

Although  there  were  no  Papists  at  the  Conference,  as  Luther 
and  ^lelauchthon  desired,  to  decide  which  party  gained  the  vic- 
toiy,  there  were  yet  those  present  who  were  quite  competent  to 
pass  a  correct  and  impartial  judgment  upon  it,  and  they  have 
done  it.  The  Landgrave  of  Hessen,  who  bestowed  the  greatest 
attention  to  the  Disputation  throughout,  declared,  on  his  dying 
bed,  that  he  had  been  won  over  to  Zwingli's  views  by  the  argu- 
ments the  latter  had  advanced  on  this  occasion.  Thus,  on  the 
Tuesday  following  Pauls  conversion,  1531,  he  wrote  to  Zwingli 
in  these  temis :  "  You  must  not  doubt  me  that  I  shall,  by  God's 
grace,  continue  steadfast  in  the  truth,  and  neither  regard  Pope 
nor  Emperor,  Luther  nor  Melanchthon,  and  I  hope,  in  course  of 
time,  to  bring  the  other  abuses  to  an  amelioration."  Professor 
Fninciscus  Lambert  makes  a  similar  confession  in  regfird  to  him- 
self He  had  left  Zurich,  \vhere  he  had  been  brought  by  Zwingli 
to  a  deeper  acquaintance  with  evangelical  truth,  had  gone  to 
Wittenberg,  married  there,  and  lived  on  terms  of  the  closest 
friendshij)  with  Luther.  From  Wittenl)erg  he  came  to  Stra.s- 
burg,  and  from  thence  to  ^larburg,  where  he  was  appointed  pro- 
fessor in  the  newly-founded  High  School  United  to  both  the 
Keformers  by  tlie  ties  of  friendship  and  of  gratitude,  he  had  not 
([uite  resolved,  although  more  inclined  to  Luther's  doctrine,  which 
view  to  adopt.  At  the  commencement  of  the  Conference,  he  set 
before  himself  to  be,  as  he  said,  like  a  sheet  of  white  paper,  on 
which  he  pniyed  that  the  finger  of  God  might  write  the  truth; 
and.  when  it  wa.s  concluded,  he  acknowledged  that  the  finger  of 


3o8  ATTEMPTS  AT  UNION. 

God  had  written  on  liiw  heart  the  doctrine  which  Zwingli  had 
developed  from  the  Word  of  God."  Even  Seckendorf,  a  warm 
defender  of  Luther  and  his  doctrine,  confesses,  "  Luther  behaved 
at  this  Conference  in  a  rude  and  arrogant  manner,  and  did  nothing 
else  but  call  upon  the  Swiss  to  subject  themselves  to  his  opinion." 

Such  was  the  judgment  passed  on  the  conduct  of  both  parties, 
by  men  who  stood  in  a  position  disconnected  from  both.  There 
being  little  hope  of  arriving  at  a  more  favourable  result  by  a 
continuance  of  the  Conference,  the  Landgrave  came  to  the  reso- 
lution of  dissolving  it.  The  sudden  breaking  out  of  a  pestilen- 
tial disease,  known  by  the  name  of  "  The  English  Sweat,"  from 
whose  ravages  each  was  desirous  of  escaping,  perhaps  hastened 
this  decision.  Philip,  however,  was  unwilling  that  the  Eeformers 
should  separate  without  publishing  some  testimony  of  their 
agreement  in  the  principal  truths  of  the  gospel.  Zwingli,  too, 
expressed  himself  thus :  "  Let  us  acknowledge  in  what  we  agree, 
and,  in  regard  to  the  points  on  which  we  differ,  let  us  not  forget 
that  we  are  brethren.  Peace  will  never  prevail  in  the  Church, 
unless,  without  compromising  the  great  doctrine  of  salvation  by 
faith,  difference  of  opinion  be  permitted  to  exist  in  things  of  sub- 
ordinate moment."  The  Landgrave  expressed  his  full  accordance 
Avith  this  sentiment,  and  requested  they  should  publish,  for  a 
testimony  to  friend  and  foe,  the  doctrines  wliich  they  in  common 
believe  and  confess,  in  a  particular  document.  Upon  its  being 
resolved  to  accede  to  this  request,  Luther  was  chosen  to  draw  up 
the  document,  a  task,  in  his  present  temper  of  mind,  of  no  easy 
execution ;  "I  will  put  the  articles  together  in  the  best  way  I 
can;  they  will  still  not  approve  them,"  said  he  moodily.  He  was 
deceived ;  the  articles  drawn  up  by  him  were,  one  and  all,  accepted 
by  the  Swiss,  upon  a  few  alterations  being  made  in  expression. 
We  give  these  articles  as  follows,  in  the  shape  in  which  they 
were  approved  of  by  both  parties,  and  we  subjoin,  in  the  notes 
below,  the  short  observations  which  have  been  preserved  to  us 
from  Zwingli's  pen. 

L  We  believe  and  acknowledge,  on  both  sides,  with  one  heart 
and  soul,  that  there  is  only  one  true  and  natural  God;  the  Cre- 
ator of  the  heavens  and  the  earth,  and  all  creatures  ;  and  that  this 
God  is  one  in  essence  and  nature,  three  in  persons,  namely. 


ATTEMl'TS  AT  I  MION.  .M,'j!) 

Father,  Sou,  and  Holy  (iliust,  entirely  as  established  at  the 
( \>uneil  of  Nice,  and  as  it  has  been  read  and  sung  through  the 
w  hole  Christian  Church  in  the  Nicene  Creed. 

2.  We  believe  that  neither  the  Father  nor  the  Holy  Ghost,  but 
the  Son  of  the  Father,  who  was  true  and  essential  God,  became 
man,  and  by  the  w-orkiiig  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  without  the  co- 
operation of  a  man,  was  conceived  and  born  of  Mary',  a  pure 
virgin,  according  to  the  flesh,  entirely  in  body  and  soul  like  other 
men,  yet  without  sin. 

3.  That  this  God  and  son  of  Mary,  in  person  inseparable,*  Jesus 
Christ,  was  crucified  for  us,  was  dead  and  buried,  arose  again  from 
the  dead,  and  ascended  to  heaven,  where  He  sits  at  the  right 
hand  of  God,  Lord  over  all  creatures,  from  whence  He  shall  come 
to  judge  the  quick  and  the  dead. 

4.  We  believe  that  original  sin,  derived  from  Adam,  descending 
to  us  by  generation,  is  u  sin  suliicient  to  condemn  all  men,  and 
that  if  Christ  had  not  come  to  our  aid  by  His  life  and  by  His 
death,  we  must  have  eternally  died  on  account  of  it,  so  that  we 
could  never  have  entered  the  kingdom  of  God,  nor  obtained 
salvation. 

o.  We  believe  that  through  faith  on  Jesus  Christ  that  hath 
died  for  us,  we  are  redeemed  and  freed  from  original  sin,  and 
every  other  sin ;  without  this  faith,  we  cannot  be  set  free  from 
any  sin,  by  any  external  work,  observance,  or  ordinance  what- 
ever, -f- 

G.  That  this  faith  is  a  gift  of  God,  which  we  acquire  by  no 
inl)orn,  nor  by  any  outward  merit  or  w'ork,  nor  through  our  own 
power,  but  the  Holy  Ghost  vouchsafes  it,  and  Avorks  it  in  our 
hearts,  how  and  where  He  wills,  when  we  hear  the  gospel,  or  the 
Word  of  God.J 

7.  That  such  faith  is  our  justification  before  God,  on  account 
of  wliich  God  regards  us  as  just,  righteous,  and  holy,  without  any 
works  or  merits  of  our  own ;  and  by  this  faith  frees  us  from  sin, 

*  If  He  were  not  insejmruhlc  in  person  lie  conld  not  he  the  Saviour  of  all. 
For  His  ability  to  .''nvc  is  derived  principally  from  His  divine  nature,  althouph  it 
is  only  in  His  human  nature  that  He  hath  suffered. 

t  It  is  hence  faith,  the  s])iritual  partaking  of  the  body  and  bhjod  of  Christ, 
and  not  the  recejitiun  of  the  sacrament,  which  alone  brings  justification  to  us. 

J  This  article  is  very  imjiortant;  according  to  it,  pardon  of  sin  is  not  extended 
to  us  by  the  presentation  of  the  Sacrament. 


360  ATTEMPTS  AT  UNION. 

death,  and  hell,  gTaciously  accepts  us  and  saves  us  for  His  Son's 
sake,  on  whom  we  believe,  being  by  faith  made  partakers  of  the 
benefits  of  justification  and  sanctification  through  Christ.  Hence 
all  ordinances  and  vows  deemed  necessary  to  salvation  are 
damnable. 

8.  That  the  Holy  Ghost,  to  speak  scripturally,*  vouchsafes  this 
laith  or  His  gifts  to  none  without  the  previous  preaching  of  the 
AVord  or  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, -f-  but  He  works  j  and  operates 
faith,  on  whom,  and  as  He  will,  by  and  with  the  preached  Word, 
Rom.  X. 

9.  That  baptism  is  a  sacrament,  appointed  by  God,  for  the 
awakening  of  such  faith,  or  to  serve  as  a  sign  of  it.  And  since 
God's  command:  "Go  ye  and  baptise,"  and  God's  promise:  "He 
that  believeth  and  is  baptised,"  &c.,  are  comprehended  in  it,  it  is 
not  a  mere  sign  or  badge  among  Christians,  but  a  sign  and  work 
of  God,§  in  which  our  faith  ||  is  demanded,  and  by  which  we 
are  born  again. 

10.  That  such  faith  by  the  working  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  after 
we  have  arrived  at  justification  and  sanctification,  produces  good 
works  in  us,  love  to  our  neighbour,  devotion  to  God,  patience 
under  the  cross. 

11.  That  confession  or  counsel-seeking^  from  a  pastor  or  a 
neighbour  is  not  commanded,  and  shall  not  be  compulsory  but 
free,  may,  however,  be  useful  for  anxious,  tempted  and  disquieted 
consciences,  principally  by  reason  of  absolution  or  evangelical 
comfort,  which  is  the  true  absolution. 

*  For  it  is  also  written,  "  Go  and  preach,"  &c.,  &c. ;  and,  "  Faith  cometh  by 
hearing,"  &c.,  else  the  preacher's  office  were  abolished. 

t  By  the  gospel  we  understand  generally  the  outward  proclamation  of  the 
Word. 

I  He  the  Spirit,  and  not  the  outward  Word,  gives  faith;  hence  His  part  in  the 
work  is  stated  with  peculiar  prominence. 

§  Baptism  is  here  called  a  work  of  God  that  none  may  despise  or  con- 
demn it. 

II  Faith  is  demanded  either  from  him  who  receives  the  baptism,  or  from  him 
who  brings  a  child  to  receive  baptism,  to  wit,  from  the  father  or  the  mother, 
faith  to  the  effect  that  the  individual  to  be  baptised  believes  the  promise,  and 
desires  to  be  admitted  into  the  communion  of  the  Church,  or  that  he  will  be 
instructed  in  the  faith  when  he  comes  to  years  of  discretion. 

^  Our  opponents  call  confession  that  which  we  call  seeking  of  counsel.  For 
this  reason,  both  expressions  are  here  used.  They  also  employ  '•  absolution,'' 
t<j  designate  what  we  express  by  evangelical  comfort. 


ATTK.Mi'TS  AT  UNION.  3C1 

12.  That  tlie  magistracy,  civil  laws,  tribunals,  and  ordinances, 
where  they  exist,  are  M'holesome,  are  coiunianded  by  God,  and 
by  no  means  forbidden,  as  some  Papists  and  Anabaptists  teach; 
but  that  a  Christian  chosen  or  born  to  a  civil  office,  can  be  saved 
just  as  a  father  or  a  mother,  a  husband  or  a  wife. 

1 3.  That  we  may  either  hold  or  give  up  the  so-called  traditions 
and  ecclesiastical  ordinances  appointed  by  man,  when  they  do 
not  conflict  with  the  revealed  Word  of  God,  according  as  the 
sentiments  of  the  people  may  be,  by  whom  we  are  surrounded  ; 
and  in  this,  our  duty  is  to  avoid  giving  offence,  and  to  endeavour 
to  farther  peace. 

l-i.  That  infant  baptism  is  right  and  necessary,  since  children 
are  thereby  received  into  God's  grace,*  and  into  the  bosom  of  the 
Church. 

1 5.  "We  believe  and  hold,  all  of  us,  in  regard  to  the  Holy  Sup- 
per of  our  dear  Lord  and  Saviour  Jesus  Christ,  that  it  ought  to 
be  dispensed  in  both  kinds,  according  to  the  institution  of  our 
dear  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  That  the  Mass  is  no  work  by  which 
one  can  acquire  or  obtain  for  another,  be  he  dead  or  alive,  mercy 
and  the  forgiveness  of  sins.  That  the  sacrament  of  the  altar-f  is 
a  sacrament:!:  of  the  true  body  and  blood  of  Christ,  and  that  the 
spiritual  partaking  of  this  body  and  blood  is  a  matter  of  especial 
need  to  every  Christian.  In  the  same  manner  we  agree  in  regard 
to  the  use  of  the  sacrament,  that  the  sacrament,  as  well  as  the 
word  delivered  §  and  ordained  to  us  of  (iod,  moves  weak  con- 
sciences, through  the  Holy  Ghost,  to  faith  and  love.||  And 
although  we  cannot  come  to  a  union  of  opinion  as  to  whether  the 
real  body  and  tlie  real  blood  of  Christ  are  bodily  present  in  the  bread 
and  wine,  yet  each  party  ought  to  manifest  Christian  love  towards 

*  That  is.  they  who  have  been  made  partakers  of  prace,  are  impressed  witli 
the  sign  of  faitli. 

t  They  call  it  the  Sacrament  of  the  Altar:  we  the  Holy  Sii])](cr. 

X  A  sacrament,  i.e..  a  sij.(u  of  the  true  body  and  blood  of  Christ  Accordingly 
it  is  not  the  true  body  of  C'hrist  himself. 

§  That  is.  as  Christ  hath  instituted  it  in  His  own  words.  Hence  we  shouhl 
beware  of  changing  the  words,  or  thinking  lightly  of  them. 

y  The  meaning  of  this  passage  is  the  following:  We  ought  so  to  keep  the 
sacrament  as  Christ  has  instituted  it.  But  Christ  has  instituted  it  in  com- 
memoratiun  of  himself,  i.e.,  that  wc  may  shew  forth  His  death,  thank,  ])raise,  and 
extol  Him,  that  He  has  l>cen  crucifietl,  and  has  died  for  us.  This  shewing  fortli 
avails  to  our  conifort  and  inulirmation  in  the  faith. 


362  ATTEMPTS  AT  UNION. 

the  other,  in  so  far  as  conscience  permits  it,  and  both  ought 
earnestly  to  supplicate  the  Almighty  God,  that  He  would  confirm 
by  His  Spirit  the  true  understanding  of  His  Word  in  us.  Amen. 
This  important  document,  by  which  a  union  or  agreement  in 
the  principal  doctrines  of  Christianity  was  declared  between  the 
two  sister  churches,  was  signed  by  both  parties.  An  important 
step  was  here  made  to  a  reconciliation,  and  if,  in  the  spirit  of 
love,  they  had  gone  on  with  the  erection  of  the  edifice  on  this 
basis,  we  should  long  ago  have  arrived  at  a  true  union  of  heart. 
But  unhappily  the  good  spirit  which  animated  Luther  in  the 
composition  of  these  articles,  soon  appeared  ready  to  abandon 
him.  The  Landgrave  earnestly  besought  both  parties  to  be 
united,  and  to  regard  one  another  as  brothers.  Zwingii,  magna- 
nimous and  noble  as  he  always  was,  came  forward  to  Luther,  with 
tears  in  his  eyes,  saying:  "There  are  none  in  the  world  with 
whom  I  should  more  desire  to  be  at  peace  than  the  Wittenber- 
gians."  But  the  hand  stretched  forward  in  largeness  of  heart  was 
pushed  back  by  Luther,  with  the  hard  words :  "  Ye  have  another 
spirit.  I  am  surprised  that  you  regard  me  as  a  brother,  whose 
doctrine  you  recently  stigmatised  as  false.  You  surely  cannot 
hold  much  of  your  own  doctrine."  This  narrow-minded  obstinacy 
of  spirit  gave  deep  offence,  not  only  to  the  Swiss  and  the  men  of 
Strasburg,  but  also  to  the  Landgrave.  "  Choose  between  the  two," 
said  Bucer,  "  either  you  recognise  none  as  brother  who  differs 
from  you  in  opinion  in  but  a  single  point,  and  then  you  have 
not  one  brother  on  earth,  no,  not  even  in  your  own  party,  or  you 
accept  individuals  who  differ  from  you,  in  which  case  you  must 
accept  us."  LTpon  the  Landgrave's  exhorting  both  to  shew  bro- 
therly love  to  one  another,  Luther  said :  "  I  shall  testify  to  my 
opponents  the  love  that  a  man  bears  to  his  enemy."  At  length 
both  parties  yielded  so  far  to  the  repeated  entreaties  of  the  Land- 
grave, as  to  promise  that  for  the  future  they  would  no  longer 
irritate  or  give  offence  to  each  other  by  violent  writings,  words, 
or  invectives.* 

*  What  Zwingii  did  oiit  of  a  spirit  of  pure  Christian  love,  out  of  a  feeling  of  the 
duty  of  a  united  combination,  even  under  existing  differences,  out  of  the  feeling 
of  hope  that  reconciliation  might  yet  be  effected,  was  interpreted  (by  Luther 
and  his  worshippers)  as  if  he  had  done  it  from  necessity,  and  a  feeling  of  weak- 
ness— as  if  he  had  been  under  the  necessity  of  begging  for  the  great  honour  of 


ATTEMPTS  AT  UNION.  363 

If  w't'  ivgiU'tl  till'  disposition  ol'  miiiil  in  wiiicli  iIk.-  two  j)artie.s 
If'l't  Marburg,  wu  shall  find  it  tliuruiiglily  correspondent  to  that  in 
which  they  came,  and  the  spirit  whii-h  they  manifested  in  the 
Conference.  Zwingli  could  write  with  a  good  conscience:  "  We 
have  the  consciousness  of  having  acted  with  a  ])ure  mind  towards 
Clod,  rosterity  will  acknowledge  it.  Truth  has  so  manifestly 
gained  the  victory  that,  if  the  shameless  and  obstinate  Luther  be 
not  beaten,  there  never  was  any  one  beaten ;  of  course,  only  in 
the  jiulgment  of  an  impartial  and  intelligent  judge,  for  Luther 
never  ceases  boasting  he  was  not  beaten.  The  Hessian  nobles 
and  clergy  have  nearly  all  deserted  him.  The  prince  himself  has 
issued  the  command  that  our  books  may  be  freely  read,  and  that 
no  clergyman  adhering  to  our  opinion  dare  be  farther  persecuted 
or  deposed  from  his  office.  The  Conference  has  also  borne  this 
good  fruit,  that  the  Papists  need  no  longer  hope  that  Luther  will 
return  to  them,  as  we  are  agreed  in  the  other  doctrines  of  Chris- 
tianity, according  to  a  declaration  made  to  this  effect."  He  felt 
deeply  hurt,  indeed,  at  Luther's  obstinate  exclusiveness  and  pre- 
judice, and  feared  that  Lutherdom  might,  in  the  end,  prove  as 
great  an  incubus  to  Christianity  as  the  popedom ;  yet  he  was  ani- 
mated by  the  joyful  hope  that  ti-uth  in  the  end  would  triumph. 
The  warm  friendship  which  the  noble-minded  Landgrave  testified 
towards  him,  richly  recompensed  him  for  the  repulse  he  had  met 
with  from  his  opponent.  It  is  a  fine  spectacle,  many  of  which 
the  gi-eat  time  of  the  Eeformation  presents  to  us,  to  see  the  most 
magnanimous  prince  of  his  age,  who  loved  to  manifest  on  occa- 
sions princely  splendour,  walking  in  close  friendship  with  the 
son  of  the  Toggenburg  herdsman  in  the  comnumity  of  a  noble 
cause.  Elevated  and  strengthened  by  tliis  lofty  feeling,  Zwingli 
returned  to  Zurich,  full  of  good  resolves.  (See  below.  Section  ix.  L) 
Yevy  different  was  the  mood  of  mind  of  Luther  and  his  friends  in 
^hirburg,  and  \\\mn  the  homc-journev.    The  leaning  ol"  the  Land- 

Lutlicr's  rricnd.'.hip,  and  had  not  ohtaintMl  it.  J)id  tliere  not  nunli  nitlier  lie 
in  it  (Zwingli's  deportment)  tlie  noMc  and  the  npright  recofrnition  of  the 
jrreatncss  and  merits  of  his  opponent?  Did  there  not  lie  in  it  the  o]>en  testi- 
mony that  his  conscience,  and  his  conscience  alone,  prevented  him  from  pur- 
chatting,  at  the  price  of  a  denied  conviction,  the  union  which  he  so  ardently 
desired?  Did  there  not  lie  over  against  the  proud  Luther  an  act  of  humility  and 
self-denial  on  the  part  of  the  free  Swiss,  who  in  no  respect  stood  in  need  ni 
I-uthcr's  favour?    -KiiRAUi'.  "The  Dogma  of  the  Holy  Supper."  Part  ii.  page  .'^41. 


364-  ATTEMPTS  AT  UNION. 

grave,  of  his  courtiers  and  divines  to  Zwingli's  doctrine,  had  not 
escaped  them,  and  a  feeling  of  uneasiness  came  over  them,  when 
tliey  trod  the  apartments  of  the  prince's  palace.  "  Take  care," 
said  Luther  to  his  friends,  "  that  we  do  not  sneeze  too  hard,  else 
blood  will  flow."  Justus  Jonas  writes  to  Zwingli,  envious  at  the 
Landgrave's  friendship  towards  him,  "  When  yon  have  done 
reforming  the  boor's  caps,  you  will  fall,  tooth  and  nail,  on  the 
prince's  ermine-hat."  Luther  thus  gives  expression  to  his  thoughts 
in  writing,  on  his  departure  from  Marburg :  "  I  crawled,"  says  he, 
"  like  a  w^orm  in  the  dust,  and  so  tormented  was  I  by  the  devil, 
that  I  thought  never  more  to  have  seen  nor  wife  nor  child ;  I,  the 
comforter  of  distressed  souls,  was  without  comfort."  In  Marburg 
he  had  denied  love,  his  conscience  gave  evidence  against  him  that 
he  had  done  so,  and  peace  abandoned  his  soul.  Nevertheless  he 
boasted  of  having  gained  the  victory  over  his  antagonists  in  all 
the  articles,  and  called  them  "  awkward  in  disputation,  and  inex- 
perienced in  it."  In  this,  however,  he  only  justified  what  Zwin- 
gli said  of  him,  "  Luther  acts  like  unskilful  swordsmen,  who, 
when  they  are  disarmed,  say  their  opponent  knows  not  the  art." 
The  Marburg  Disputation,  despite  the  partial  failure  which 
attended  it,  was  of  signal  importance  to  the  Eeformed  Church. 
In  the  first  place,  the  attention  of  the  followers  of  both  the 
Eeformers  was  turned,  by  the  Marburg  articles,  to  the  common 
ground  of  faith  on  which  their  doctrine  stood,  a  gain  which 
is  not  to  be  deemed  small.  That  which  Zwingli  was  always 
maintaining,  in  this  respect,  Luther  now  confessed  by  the  com- 
position of  this  remarkable  document.  Then,  in  consequence 
of  the  reciprocal  promise  not  to  continue  the  strife,  a  calm  set 
in  after  the  feverish  excitement,  which  was  extremely  grateful 
to  all.  And  this  calm  was  of  the  utmost  consequence  to  the 
Eeformed  Church,  for  it  was  threatened  by  a  heavy  tempest 
from  another  quarter.  The  Emperor  Charles  V.  crossed  the 
Alps  from  Italy,  in  the  spring  of  1530,  for  the  purpose  of 
holding  the  Augsl3urg  Diet,  so  celebrated  even  in  the  history  of 
the  Eeformation  itself.  The  Evangelicals  were,  upon  good  grounds, 
anxious  for  the  safety  of  their  Church,  being  weU  aware  that 
Charles  had  given  his  promise  to  the  papal  ambassador  at  Bar- 
celona, to  employ  all  the  means  in  his  power  for  the  extirpation 
of  heresy  in  Germany,  (see  Section  vi.)     After  having  lived  with 


ATTEMPTS  AT  UNION.  'M')') 

the  Pope  five  inctiitlis  long,  during  the  winter  1529-30,  in  Bologna, 
and  taken  counsel  with  him,  he  arrived  in  Augsburg,  accom- 
panietl  by  Fal)er  and  Eck,  and  with  his  feelings,  excited  by  his 
Dominican  Confessor  Ciarzia  de  Loaysa,  who  expressed  the 
sentiments  that  animated  him  thus:  "The  true  rhubarb  for 
lieresy  is  force."  Next  to  the  gracious  providence  of  God,  the 
reformed  Church  owes  it  to  the  firmness  and  courage  of  the 
reformed  princes  and  deputies,  but,  above  all,  to  the  address  and 
prudence  of  the  Landgrave  of  Hessen,  that  the  blood-thirsty  plans 
of  Eck,  Faber,  and  the  Spanish  monk  were  not  carried  into 
execution.  This  Diet  was  also  attended  by  Eeformed  divines  ; 
on  the  side  of  the  Lutherans,  by  John  Brenz  and  IMelanchthon, 
the  latter  of  whom  presented  to  the  Emperor  the  Augsburg 
Confession,  as  composed  by  him ;  on  the  Zwinglian  side,  by  Bucer 
and  Capito,  (at  first  they  did  not  appear  ostensively,)  who  handed 
to  the  Emperor,  (probably  through  James  Sturm,)  a  creed  drawn 
up  by  them  in  the  name  of  the  four  Imperial  towns  of  Strasburg, 
Constance,  ]Memmingen,  and  Lindau,  the  so-called  Four-Towns- 
Confession  (Tetrapolitona.)  The  tw^o  head  Eeformers  remained 
at  a  distance  from  the  Diet,  Luther  at  Coburg,  where  he  com- 
posed the  heroic  hymn  beginning,  "  Eine  feste  Burg  ist  unser 
Gott,"  Zwingli  at  Zurich,  where  he  drew  up,  in  the  course  of  a 
few  davs,  his  own  clear  and  well-founded  Confession  of  faith, 
which  he  sent  oft'  by  a  special  messenger  to  Augsburg.*  As  the 
Papists  employed  the  difference  of  doctrine  between  the  two 
parties  with  wily  cunning,  to  divide  them,  if  possible,  the 
Lutherans  enjoyed  a  much  higher  respect  from  this  quarter  than 
the  Zwinglians,  who,  it  was  thought,  could  not  be  treated  with 
sufficient  contempt.  Nay,  not  only  was  the  proposal  made  to 
bring  about  a  reconciliation  between  the  Papists  and  the 
Lutherans,  but  steps  were  taken  towards  effecting  it,  a  commission 
being  a]ipointed  to  draw  up  the  conditions  under  which  it  should 
takt.'  }>lac('.  Eck  and  Mclanchthon  found  thcni.selves  ajtpointed 
members  of  it,  and  appear  to  liave  got  on  verA'  smootlily  together. 

*  Buccrnnil  Ciipito  wrote  on  the  23'1  June  1530  toZwinpli,  that  two  jiassages 
in  this  confession  pave  ureal  oftencc  at  the  Diet  ;  the  Pajiists  were  offended  at 
the  passage  at  the  end  of  Chap.  X.,  where  Zwin}.'ii  oonipares  the  hipher  orders 
of  the  Koinish  clergy  tf)  wens  and  humps;  the  Lutlierans  at  that,  which  speaks 
of  those  who  look  back  to  the  onions  and  flesh-pots  of  Egjpt,  an  allusion  they 
applied  to  themselves. 


366  ATTEMPTS  AT  UNION. 

In  these  circumstances,  the  Zwinglians,  or  to  use  the  Ck'nnan 
designation,  the  Eeformed  party,  had  much  to  bear,  both  from 
Papists  and  Liitherans.  Bucer  and  Capito  complained  bitterly  in 
a  letter  to  Zwin^li :  "  You  can  imaoine  nothinjf  less  conciliatino-, 
nothino-  ruder  and  more  mating  to  the  feelinj^s  than  the  beha\dour 
of  the  Lutherans  towards  us.  The  Landgrave  of  Hessen  alone, 
who  is  verily  an  instrument  in  the  hand  of  God,  for  the  promo- 
tion of  His  own  glory,  confesses  his  faith  with  courage  and  firm- 
ness, and  has  already  openly  maintained  it  before  the  Emperor, 
and  to  every  one  else."'  Of  Melanchthon's  behaviour,  the  Land- 
grave himself  writes  to  Zwingli :  "  But  what  shall  I  say  of  Philip 
Melanchthon,  who  goes  backwards  like  a  crab,  and  has  been  with 
his  timidity  a  hurtful  man  to  the  gospel  of  Christ;  for  he  is 
fallen  into  an  error,  and  cannot  get  out  of  it,  and  many  hang  upon 
him ;  but  he  shall  not,  if  God  will,  deceive  me."  But  the  attempts 
at  reconciliation  between  Papists  and  Lutherans  were  soon 
abandoned,  and  Melanchthon  himseK  saw  that  he  had  been 
practised  upon.  Bucer  and  Capito  availed  themselves  of  this 
circumstance,  (-without  doubt  under  the  influence  of  the  Land- 
grave and  James  Sturm,  the  Town-Sheriff,)  to  make  farther 
attempts  at  reconciliation  between  the  Pieformed  and  Lutherans. 
In  their  Confession  of  Faith  they  had,  without  denying  in  their 
sense  Zwingli's  doctrine  of  the  Supper,  accommodated  their 
expressions  so  far  to  the  Lutheran  doctrine,  as  to  adopt  the  fol- 
lowing formula:  "Christ  gives  in  the  Supper  His  true  body  and 
true  blood,  to  be  truly  eaten  and  drunk,  as  a  food  of  the  soul." 
Tlie  Lutherans  at  Augsburg  having  become  more  accessible  to 
the  Eeformed  after  the  deception  put  upon  them  by  the  Papists, 
and  Melanchthon  having  meanwhile  instructed  himself  better 
upon  the  reformed  doctrine,  and  shewn  himself  more  disposed  to 
it,  Bucer  and  Capito  repaired  to  him,  and  to  John  Brenz,  to  make 
fresh  attempts  to  procure  a  mutual  reconciliation,  which  attempts 
were  made  by  Bucer  with  unwearied  zeal  Bucer's  object  was  a 
thoroughly  Christian  and  noble  one.  He  himself  was  more  a 
clear  and  practised  speaker  than  a  deep  thinker,  much  more  con- 
siderable as  a  practical  clergyman  than  as  a  man  of  learning. 
But  it  was  these  very  qualities  which  enabled  him  at  a  glance 
to  understand  and  appreciate  the  manner  in  which  simple 
evangelical  Christians,  who  were  puzzled  by  the  exact  distinctions 


ATTEMPTS  AT  UNION.  o()7 

of  the  theologians,  took  up  and  juilgod  of  the  matter  in  dispute. 
''  Many  persons,"  he  writes  to  Zvvingli,  "  cannot  bring  themselves 
to  regard  the  words  of  institution  as  a  figure  of  speech ;  they  hold 
firm  to  tliis,  that  Christ  is  present  in  the  Sacrament,  and  will  not 
farther  examine  whether  He  be  in  the  bread  or  the  wine,  in  the 
transaction  or   the  heart.     Were  you   to   induce   these   peo])le 
to  take  the  words  of  institution  figuratively,  and  to  hold  only 
the   spiritual  presence,   they   would   be   led   astray  upon   the 
gospel  itself,  and  speedily  fall  away  from  it.     "We  should  here 
follow  tlie  example  of  a  skilful  and  wise  physician,  who,  when 
he   finds   the   patient   having  an  antipathy  against  pills,  pre- 
scribes his  medicine  in  a  mixture.     "We  also  should  invest  the 
truth  in  a  phraseology  to  attract  the  great  nniltitude  of  Chris- 
tians."    Starting  from  this  point  of  Adew,  he  designed,  after  the 
example  of  the  Four-towns-Confession,  a  doctrinal  formula,  in 
which  each  party  might  find  their  own  views,  and  wdiich  each 
might  interpret  for  itself.     Melanchthon  and  Brenz  appear  to 
have  approved  of  Bucer's  idea.    He  accordingly  set  out  for  Coburg 
in  order  to  induce  Luther  to  agree  to  it,  while  Capito  set  off  for 
Zurich  to  gain  Zwingli  for  it.     Luther  might  well  bring  himself 
to  approve  of  the  formula,  containing,  as  it  does,  that  "  Christ's 
tme  body  and  true  blood  is  given  in  the  Supper  to  be  truly  eaten 
and  drunken  as  a  food  of  the  soul."     A  doubt,  however,  on  the 
one  hand,  that  the  Swiss  would  hardly  subscribe  it,  and,  on  the 
other  hand,  the  feeling  that  such  a  settlement  of  the  dispute  was 
moi-e  factitious  than  real,  determined  him  to  reject  Bucer's  pro- 
posal.   He  thus  expresses  himself  in  a  letter  to  the  Duke  Ernest  of 
Luenenburg:  "  At  your  Grace's  request,  I  have  long  ere  this  given 
Bucer  an  answer  in  the  negative,  but  in  the  friendliest  and  gen- 
tlest manner  possible.     For  it  is  not  possible  to  arrange  upon  the 
ground  of  his  plan ;  nor  were  it  good  to  do  so.     But  as  to  what 
Bucer  pretends,  that  the  dispute  is  one  of  words,  I  am  willing  to 
give  my  life  for  it,  it  is  not  tliis,  were  it  indeed  so,  such  a  split 
would  be  soon  closed  up,  and  ought  never  to  have  been  made.    I 
am,  too,  disposed  to  union,  as  I  told  him,  in  many  words,  at 
Coburg.     My  opinion  is.  that,  for  the  present,  enougli  lias  been 
done  till  God  gives  further  grace,  and  tliat  we  ought,  on  both 
sides,  to  desist  from  farther  writing  against  each  other  upon  the 
subject,  having  sulhciently  admonished  each  other,  and  sutficiently 


368  ATTEMPTS  AT  UNION. 

learned  each  other's  opinion.  We  shall  pray,  and  hope  till  all  he 
well.  Your  Highness  may  rest  assured  that,  next  to  Christ, 
nothing  lies  nearer  my  heart  than  that  these  people  were  fun- 
damentally one  with  us.  No  death  is  so  bitter  that  I  should  not 
willingly  suffer  it  to  attain  this  object."  AVliat  a  different  lan- 
guage of  conciliation  is  here  from  that  which  marks  his  polemical 
writings !  You  feel,  in  nearly  every  word,  that  "  another  spirit " 
breathes  in  lam  from  that  which  moved  him  to  thrust  away 
the  hand  of  Zwingli,  offered  to  him  in  conciliation.  Zwingli, 
like  Luther,  but  in  a  more  decided  manner,  rejected  Bucer's 
artificial  attempt  at  a  settlement,  for  nothing  was  more  opposed 
to  his  straight-forward  soul  than  equivocation.  He  admitted, 
indeed,  that  he  could  find  his  \dew  expressed  in  the  formula  pro- 
posed by  Bucer,  if  the  words  were  only  rightly  understood  and 
interpreted.*  "We  do  not  in  any  manner  reject  or  blame,"  he  writes 
on  this  subject  to  the  Council  of  Basle,  "the  confession  which 
our  much  loved  friends  and  Christian  fellow-citizens  of  Stras- 
burg  have  presented  to  the  Diet  at  Strasburg  ;  on  the  con- 
trary, we  esteem  and  hold  the  same  to  be  Christianity  right  and 

*  The  words  certainly  were  alway.s  understood  and  explained  by  Luther  and 
Zwingli  difterentlj',  according  to  their  diiferent  modes  of  contemplating  things, 
especially  the  word  true  and  t?-uli/.  For  Luther,  from  his  point  of  view  of 
scholastic  realism,  the  sensibly  perceptible,  and  at  the  same  time  tangible,  was 
alone  the  t}-iie,  while  Zwingli,  with  John,  (as  also  with  Plato,)  regarded  the 
super-sensual  and  etei'nal,  which  withdraws  itself  from  the  perception  of  our 
senses,  but  which  again  is  contemplated  by  the  believing  soul,  by  the  pure  heart, 
as  the  true  and  truly.  The  "  t7-ue  "  bread  is  neither  barley-bread  nor  wheaten- 
bread,  but  the  "  eternal"  Word  of  God,  which  became  ilesh  in  Christ,  and  which 
eternally  nourishes  and  strengthens  our  soul.  The  "  ti-ue"  light  is  not  that 
which  affects  our  corporeal  eye,  but  our  soul.  Thiis  for  Zwingli  the  "  true" 
body  of  Christ,  of  which  the  believing  soul  becomes  partaker  in  the  Supper,  is 
not  the  sensible  body  of  Christ,  but  His  whole  divine  and  human  appearance 
and  redeeming  work,  which  He  accomplished  by  divesting  himself  of  His 
heavenly  gloiy,  and  offering  himself  up  in  sacrifice  for  us.  This,  howeVer,  is 
not  present  to  the  senses,  which  can  just  as  little  seize  hold  of  and  grasp  it  as 
they  can  perceive  God.  The  believing  soul  alone,  the  pure  in  heart  alone,  see 
God.  It  is  only  the  believing  soul,  too,  which  is  able  to  recognise  Christ  as  the 
God-man,  and  to  a])propriate  to  itself  His  redemption-work.  To  her  Christ 
and  His  redemption  are  always  present.  From  the  standing-point  of  the 
higher  intellectual  contemplation,  there  is  neither  past  nor  future,  but  one  eter- 
nal present.  This  spiritual,  believing  contemplation  (contempfatio  Jidei)  is  ele- 
vated, enhanced,  and  confirmed  by  the  partaking  of  the  Holy  Supper.  It  is, 
however,  always  as  different  from  the  idea  which  we  bear  in  our  souls  of  sensible 
things,  as  God  is  different  from  the  world. 


ATTEMPTS  AT  UNK^N.  36!> 

sjood.  But  tluit  we  are  to  resign  a  clear  and  fiindann»ntal  under- 
standing ot"  the  words,  '  this  is  my  body,'  &c.,  as  we  have  forni(;rly 
received,  taught,  and  preaclied  it,  for  a  dark  equivocal  formula,  you 
can  by  no  means  desire  from  us,  as  we  should  thereby  give  our- 
selves the  appearance  as  if  we  had  been  formerly  in  error,  and 
had  maintained  what  was  untrue.  We  may  therefore  leave  the 
confession  of  our  Christian  fellow-citizens  uncensured,  since  it  in 
no  respect  affects  us.  But  if  a  confession  be  desired  from  us,  we 
shall  express  our  opinions  and  views  in  clear  intelligible  language. 
When  you  report  to  us  that  you  cannot  so  understand  the  words 
of  the  Strasburg  Confession,  that  '  Christ  gives  us  in  the  Supper 
His  true  body  and  His  true  blood  to  eat  and  drink  as  a  food  for 
the  soul,'  as  if  thereby  Popery  or  Lutheranisni  were  abcjut  to  be 
set  up  again,  we,  for  our  part,  cannot  look  upon  it  in  any  other 
light,  than  that  in  the  words,  'gives  to  eat,'  the  presentation  is 
understood,  and  thus  salvation  is  made  dependent  on  the  priest 
who  presents,  if  not  now,  yet  eventually.  We,  however,  do  not  live 
lor  the  present  time  and  for  ourselves  alone,  but  for  the  future, 
and  fur  men  in  anuther  age,  and  if  we  were  not  now  to  maintain 
the  truth,  even  tu  death,  what  confusion  should  we  be  heaping 
up  in  store  for  coming  generations?" 

Thus  this  too  artificial  attemjjt  at  union  was  met  by  Luther 
and  Zwingli  with  a  formal  declinature.  Both,  however,  earnestly 
longed  for  jieace  for  themselves  and  for  the  Church  they  had 
reformed.  Both  recognised  with  their  whole  heart  and  soul,  that 
He  alone  can  give  peace  and  tnie  union  who  turns  the  hearts  of 
men  like  the  streams  of  water.  To  Him  Zwingli  had  applied  at 
the  very  beginning  of  the  unhallowed  strife,*  in  the  noble  prayer 
which  we  shall  here  insert :  "  Fill  us,  0  Creator,  God,  and  Father 
of  aD,  with  Thy  gracious  Spirit,  and  drive  from  the  minds  of  both 
sides  all  the  clouds  of  misunderstanding  and  passion,  as  Thou 
didst  of  old  force  the  raging  waves  of  the  deluge  into  the  deep 
l»y  Thy  powerful  winds,  and  causedst  fruits  and  plants  to  the 
full  to  spring  up  and  to  ripen  again  on  the  surface  of  tlie  all- 
nourishing  earth.  Put  an  end,  O  God,  to  the  struggle,  to  the  quarrel, 
and  to  the  blind  passion.  Arise,  0  ChrLst,  Thou  glorious  Sun  of 
righteousness,  and  shine  on  us  with  Tliy  mild  rays.  Alas !  while  we 
strive,  we  forget  but  too  often  to  wrestle  after  holiness,  which  Thou 

*    In  thf  intnxhiction  to  his  "Fricndlv  KxcgcMS,"  ("  Arnica  Kxcgcsis.") 

2  A 


')70  ATTEMPTS  AT  UNION. 

requirest  from  vis  all.     For  Thou  kuowest,  0  Lord,  that  we  never 
come  out  of  these  worldly  contests  bettered,  since  they  are  works 
of  the  flesh,  that  sully  every  one  that  mingles  in  them,  while  the 
righteous  ever  decline  them  to  their  own  salvation.     Preserve  us, 
therefore,  0  Lord,  from  such  strife,  that  we  may  not  misuse  our 
powers  in  them,  but  turn  them  with  all  earnestness  to  the  work 
of  sauctification."      The  Lord  heard  the  prayer  of  these  men, 
whom  He  had  chosen  to  a  great  work.    Zwingli  could,  a  few  weeks 
before  his  too  early  death,  report  of  the  conflict  as  of  something 
gone  bye  ;  he  was  able  to  deliver  a  glorious  testimony  to  the 
power  and  effect  of  the  Sacraments,   and  to  manifest  that  he 
recognised  the  significance  and  importance  of  these  means  of 
grace  in  all  their  depth.      To  the  same  God  of  peace  Luther  also 
turned  himself,  and  thus  the  true  peace  came  ever  more  and 
more  over  his  mighty  soul,  so  that  he  could  write  in  the  letter  to 
the  Duke  of  Luenenburg  quoted  above :  "  If  God  would  grant  it, 
(namely  that  we  be  united,)  I  shall  joyfully  die  and  take  my 
departure,  so  God  will."     His  desire  was  fulfilled.     Just  before 
he  set  out  on  his  journey  to  Eisleben,  where  he  died  (1546),  he 
sent  for  Melanchthon  and  said  to  him  :  "  I  must  acknowledge, 
that  in  the  matter  of  the  Supper  there  has  been  too  much  done  ;" 
to  which  Philip  answered,  "  Doctor,  let  us  draw  up  a  document 
in  which  the  matter  may  be  softened."     Luther  replied  :  "  Yes, 
dear  Philip,  I  have  thought  much  and  often  upon  this,  but  the 
doctrine  itseK  will  be  brought  into  suspicion  ;    I  commend  it 
to  God,    the   Almighty.      But  do  something  after   my  death." 
Melanchthon  fulfilled  this  last  wish  of  his  venerated  friend,  with 
all  the  more  sacred  fidelity,  that  his  own  convictions  likewise 
impelled  him  to  it.     The  Spirit  that  leads  believers  ever  nearer 
to  the  truth,  conducted  also  this  faithful  witness  to  a  view  of  the 
Holy  Supper  that  was  very  closely  related  to  Zmngli's.     A  few 
months  before  his  death,  (29th  October  1559,)  he  was  requested* 
by  his  prince,  the  Elector  Frederick  of  the  Palatinate,  to  record 
his  sentiments  in  writing  upon  this  subject.     Hesshussius,-f-  a 

*  Melanchthon  died  April  1560.  He  was  born  at  Bretten  in  the  Palatinate, 
16th  February  1497. 

t  Tileman  Hesshussius  was  born  at  Wesel  in  the  year  1527.  He  was  one  of 
that  class  of  men  who,  possessincj  Luther's  passionateness,  M-ithoiit  his  great 
intellect,  pass  tliemselves  off  as  double-refined  Lutheran.     For  his  unmeasured 


ATTEMPTS  AT  UNION.  .'}71 

poltMiiical  clergyuuiu,  endeavounng  iit  tliat'time  to  rake  up  the 
embers  of  the  old  strife  with  a  wild  phrensy,  "  My  heart's  desire 
is,"  wrote  ^lelanchthon,  "  that  the  Church  newly  planted  through 
the  ])reaching  of  the  Word,  may  everywhere  enjoy  peace  and  rest. 
1  am  therefore  greatly  pleased  with  the  opinion  of  your  Serene 
Highness,  that  all  strife-loving  clergymen  should  he  dismissed 
from  their  pulpits,  that  divisions  may  not  be  sown  in  the  young 
tender  church,  and  the  weak  in  faith  offended.  In  this  strife,  it 
were  best  that  we  adhered  to  the  words  of  Paul :  '  1'lie  bread 
that  we  break,  is  it  not  the  communion  of  the  body  of  Christ?' 
and  that  we  emphatically  taught  the  people  the  benefit  of  the 
Sacrament,  whereby  many  might  be  induced  to  take  a  liking  to 
this  pledge,  and  use  it  often.  The  word  'communion'  ought  to 
be  explained  in  the  following  way :  Paul  speaks  not  like  the 
Pajtist,  that  the  bread  is  changed,  nor  does  he  speak  like  those 
of  Bremen,*  that  the  bread  is  the  essential  body  of  Christ ;  nor 
like  Hesshussius,  that  the  bread  is  the  true  body  of  Christ ; 
but  he  says  that  the  bread  is  the  communion  of  the  l)ody  of 
rhrist,  through  the  bread  one  commonalty-j*  is  made  with  the 
body  of  Christ.  The  Son  of  God  is  present  at  the  preaching  of 
the  gospel,  and  undoubtedly  works  also  in  believers  through  the 
dispensation  of  the  Sacrament  appointed  by  Him.  He  is,  how- 
ever, not  there  for  the  bread's  sake,  but  for  man's  sake,  as  He  says : 
"Abide  in  me  and  I  in  you;"  and,  "I  am  in  the  Father,  and  you 
in  Me,  and  I  in  you. '  And  with  this  true  consolation,  He  makes  us 
members  of  himself.  So  the  old  Fathei*s  of  the  Church  explain  the 
Ix)rd's  Supper.     But  now  some  teach,  (the  Papists,)  that  the  bread 

advucacv  of  a  one-sided  view  of  the  Lutheran  doctrine  of  the  Supper,  and  the 
jiersecutinjt  spirit  he  manifested  towards  all  who  did  not  aj^ree  with  him  in  it, 
he  was  divested  one  after  the  other  of  his  professorial  and  clerical  offices  in 
(ioslar,  Mag<leburg,  Wittenherp.  Heidelbcrfi,  Brunswick,  Wescl,  Jena,  &c.,  in  all 
which  ]ilaces  he  excited  the  most  odious  animosities.  A  synod  of  20  ministers 
fnrmally  condemned  at  Koenigsberp,  in  1577,  the  doctrinal  ojiinions  of  this 
Lutheran  zealot.     He  died  in  1588. 

•  Under  this  designation  we  are  to  understand  the  polemical  divines  Timann 
and  Westphal,  who  persecuted  with  great  violence  the  i)ious  minister  Allirccht 
Hardenberg,  simply  because  he  cultivated  friendly  relations  witli  John  Lasky 
and  the  Swiss. 

t  Melanchthon  here  refers  to  the  comparison  Augustine  ilraws  between  the 
many  grains  of  corn  which  form  one  loaf  of  bread,  and  the  many  grapes  which 
go  to  form  ont  wine,  with  the  members  of  the  Church  who  arc  made  one  body  in 
Christ,  through  partaking  of  the  Supper  of  the  Lord. 


•)  I  ^  ATTEMPTS  AT  UNION. 

and  the  wine  are  clianged  into  the  body  and  blood  of  Christ ; 
others,  (the  ultra- Lutherans,)  that  with,  in,  under,  and  beside  the 
bread  and  wine,  the  body  and  blood  of  Christ  are  so  united 
respectively,  that  the  one  must  be  emphatically  and  corporeally 
present  with  the  other ;  some,  indeed,  (John  Brenz,)  that 
the  body  and  blood  of  Christ  are  everywhere  present  in  all 
ends  and  corners  of  the  world.  Of  such  monstrous  opinions, 
the  ancient  and  very  "learned  Fathers  knew  nothing.  Nor 
shall  I  strive  with  these  quarrelsome  individuals,  who  pur- 
sue idolatry  and  murder,  with  their  new  and  gross  conceits  of  the 
Lord's  Supper,  but  I  shall  simply  advertise  what,  according  to  my 
poor  understanding,  in  my  opinion,  ought  to  be  undertaken  for 
the  peace  and  edification  of  the  Church.  I  abide  by  my  opinion, 
that  all  public  disputation  on  the  subject  ought  to  be  forbidden 
to  both  parties.  I  invoke  the  Son  of  God,  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
who  sits  at  the  right  hand  of  the  Father,  and  gathers  to  himself 
by  the  preaching  of  the  gospel  an  ever-during  communion,  that 
He  would  teach,  guide,  and  preserve  all  of  us,  and  each  one  in 
particular."  In  this  manner  Melanchthon  discharged  Luther's 
last  legacy  of  love,  by  exhorting  and  directing  the  church, 
w^hich  they  had  both  been  instruments  of  reforming  on  the  basis 
of  faith  in  Christ,  and  according  to  the  directory  of  God's  Word, 
to  cultivate  peace,  harmony,  and  union.  It  is  an  ennobling 
spectacle,  to  see  the  champions  of  the  fight,  on  the  evening  of 
their  lives,  when  the  small  patchwork  of  human  knowledge 
vanishes  before  the  awful  splendoTir  of  the  eternal  light,  at  length 
stretching  out  to  one  another  the  hand  of  peace,  and  recom- 
mending her  to  the  renovated  communion  of  the  Lord  as  a  sacred 
legacy.  And  ought  we  here  below,  now  that  they  have  gone  up  to 
the  great  Supper  of  the  Lamb,  and  entered  into  it,  to  cling  to  the 
infirmities  of  their  flesh,  and  testify  our  community  of  saintship 
with  them,  by  reviving  these  infirmities  after  they  had  been  laid 
aside  by  themselves  as  a  worn-out,  ragged,  and  unsightly  garment? 
May  the  Lord  of  the  Church,  who  knows  His  discij)les  by  their 
manifesting  love  to  one  another,  fill  us  with  His  love,  that  we 
who  believe  on  His  name,  may  eat  of  the  Holy  Supper  of  love 
according  to  His  mind  and  according  to  His  Spirit. 


EIGHTH    SECTION. 


ZWINGLI  IN  HIS  riUVATE  LIFE. 


'•  Let  tlie  heart  of  them  rejoice  tliat  seek  the  Lord." 

1.  ZwiNGLi's  Character;  Wise  employment  of  Time  for  the 

DISPATCH  OF  MULTIFARIOUS  BUSINESS ;    HIS  DOMESTIC  LIFE. 

Having  considered  the  salutary  work  of  the  Eeformation  of  the 
Church,  as  Zwingli  iii  the  strength  of  God  accomplished  it,  as 
also  the  manifold  conflicts  -which  this  true  servant  of  the  Lord 
had  to  endure  in  the  cause  of  truth,  we  shall  now  turn  our  regards 
to  his  private  life,  and  we  shall  bring  before  the  mind  of  the 
reader  some  more  cheerful  images  from  this  quarter,  ere  we  con- 
template his  last  sphere  of  usefulness,  and  the  bloody  event  which 
put  a  close  to  his  useful  life. 

If  we  enter  Ids  house,  we  shall  find  the  lieformer  simply  dressed 
in  the  wide  canon's  coat,  with  the  priest's  hat,  or  "  Barette,"  on 
his  head,  his  countenance  beaming  with  a  cheerfulness  disclosing 
the  open  soul  and  manly  courage  of  the  Christian  hero,  ever 
affaljle  to  all  who  had  a  request  to  make  of  him,  sometimes 
bursting  out  into  indignation,  if  his  straightforward  soul  lighted 
on  h}'pocrisy,  obstinacy,  or  unreasonableness.  l>ut  the  clouds  of 
anger  are  soon  dispersed  by  the  ray  of  heavenly  truth  penetrating 
them  with  the  recollection,  "  "We  all  err  in  many  respects."  As 
to  his  fare  he  is  sim})le,  preferring  above  every  thing  else  the 
milk-diet,  to  which,  in  his  youth,  he  had  been  accustomed  in  his 
native  mountain.'^.  The  .society  of  his  wife,  the  eduoatinn  of  hi.<; 
children,  conversation  and  intellectual  intercourse  with  his  friends, 
and  last  of  all,  music,  in  wliich  he  exercises  himself  with  all  the 
passion  and  application  of  an  artist ;  the.se  are  his  pleasures, 
rpon  this  man,  so  simple  in  his  domestic  relations,  so  robust  in 
health,  both  of  bodv  and  mind,  there  rests  a  load  of  labouns  and 


374  f^xMPLUYMENT  OF  TIME  FOK  BUSINESS. 

business  under  wliicli  every  one  else  must  have  succumbed,  but 
of  which,  by  his  extraordinary  talents,  and  a  wise  division  of 
time,  he  ever  discharges  himself  in  a  cheerful  spirit.  The  early 
hours  of  morning  he  devotes  specially  to  prayer  and  the  study  of 
the  Scriptures,  till  the  hour  arrives  which  summons  him  into 
the  church  to  preach,  or  to  give  "The  Prophesying,"  (see  p.  113,) 
or  into  the  Professorial-Hall,  to  deliver  an  exegesis  from  the  Old 
and  New  Testaments  alternately.  At  eleven  he  dines.  After 
dinner,  he  converses  with  his  family,  receives  visits,  or  goes 
a-walking  till  two.  The  afternoon  is  often  devoted  to  the  study 
of  the  noble  works  of  Grecian  or  Eoman  literature,  and  not  till 
after  supper  does  he  again  grant  himself  a  short  respite  from 
labour,  either  in  the  circle  of  his  family  or  of  his  friends.  Some- 
times he  sups  in  those  mediaeval  society -houses,  or  guild-rooms, 
as  they  still  exist  in  many  of  the  Swiss  towns,  in  the  com- 
pany of  his  colleagues,  the  members  of  the  Council,  and  other 
respectable  and  enlightened  friends  of  evangelical  truth.  The 
later  hours  of  evening,  and  even  a  part  of  the  night  itself,  he 
employs  in  writing  his  many  letters.  If  business  is  pressing,  he 
can  dispense  with  his  night's  rest,  (during  the  Disputation  at 
Baden,  for  six  weeks  together,  see  page  231,)  but  otherwise  he 
could  take  the  necessary  quantum  of  sleep,  as  BuUinger  faithfully 
informs  us.*  It  was  only  by  such  a  careful  distribution  and 
economy  of  his  time,  that  with  all  his  fine  gifts  of  intellect,  and 
with  the  advantage  of  an  iron  constitution,  he  was  able  to  master 
the  overwhelming  amount  of  business  which  the  Eeformation 
laid  upon  him,  and  to  accomplish  his  great  work.  It  was  often, 
indeed,  a  subject  of  lamentation  to  him  that,  owing  to  the  pres- 
sure of  business,  he  was  unable  to  bestow  upon  the  works  he 
published  the  requisite  elaboration  and  polish.  This  regret  we 
learn  particularly  from  one  of  his  letters  which  he  wi-ote  to 
Vadian,  one  of  the  friends  of  his  youth,  upon  his  handing  him  a 
copy  of  the  well-known  work,  "  The  Shepherd,"  when  he  says, 
"  I  must  apologise  for  '  The  Shepherd's'  being  much  less  filed 
and   polished   than  I  had   wished.      The   unlooked-for  storms 

*  These  details  are  taken  from  accounts,  thoroughly  consistent  with  them- 
selves, of  several  of  his  friends  and  acquaintances,  Myconius,  Bullinger,  an<I 
Bernhard  Weiss.  Mvconius  says,  in  addition,  that  he  always  studied  and 
wovkc<l  stdiidinff. 


EMPLOYMENT  OF  TIAIE  FUR  BUSINESS.  37') 

with  which  the  wurkl  of  the  present  day  is  vexed,  prevented 
lue  t'vom  duly  ehilioratiiij^-  and  filing  not  only  this  writing,  Lut 
all  my  earlier  produetion.s,  even  where  the  original  design  might 
have  been  successful.  Thus  all  my  writings  are  much  more  the 
creations  of  circumstances  than  regular  publications,  and  so  much 
has  this  been  the  case,  that  I  never  was  in  a  position  to  finish  a 
single  work,  before  the  bookseller  had  begun  the  printing  of  it. 
Hence  repetitions  are  more  frequent  than  they  ought  to  be,  and 
omissions  likewise,  as  I  frequently  imagined  1  had  inserted 
what  I  had  only  written  to  a  friend.  Now  our  attention  is 
engrossed  by  friends,  now  by  enemies ;  here  a  bookseller  jogs  us 
for  the  approaching  book  fair,  there  a  brother  begs  us  for  advice 
and  help,  who  has  been  ill-used  by  an  unjust  bishop.  Hence  in 
answering  the  one,  we  have  forgotten  to  M'rite  w'hat  ought  to 
have  stood  here  in  our  book.  But  in  all  this  we  see  the  hand  of 
divine  Providence,  implanting  within  us  the  desire,  that  all 
explanations  and  treatises  whatever,  but  more  especially  our  own, 
may  pass  speedily  into  oblivion,  as  soon  as  we  shall  have  achieved 
the  getting  the  Holy  Scriptures  into  general  use  and  perusal, 
(.iod  has  so  ordered  it  with  us,  that  we  have  only  written /or  the 
occasion.  Of  the  immense  number  of  letters  which  we  have 
written,  we  have  not  been  al)le  to  take  a  copy  of  a  single  one. 
We  have  thus  been  obliged  immediately  to  publish  whatever 
came  first  to  the  mouth,  or  lioweil  tirst  to  the  pen;  and  it  has 
been  justly  said  of  our  letters  and  writings,  that  they  have  been 
much  more  talked  than  luritten."  At  another  time,  he  C(Hnp]ains : 
"  No  man  is  more  unfortunately  situated  than  I  for  writing  books. 
It  is  owing  to  the  evil  nature  of  the  times.  For  it  drags  me  out, 
who  Would  rather  keep  silence  and  lie  concealed,  and  compels 
me  to  write,  while  it  obstinately  refuses  me  leisure  to  do  the 
work,  and  the  years  requisite  for  the  employment  of  the  file. 
Hence  all  my  works  ought  rather  to  be  called  sketches  than 
books.  Yet  I  thank  God  for  it,  who  teaches  me  by  this  hint  to 
suppress  the  hankering  after  glor}-,  and  to  do  all  with  simple 
fidelity,  that  my  writings  may  be  the  more  eftective  to  the  advance- 
ment of  the  gl(»iy  of  God,  the  more  they  want  artificial  ornament 
and  glitter,  and  that  it  may  be  obWous  to  all,  that  the  arms  I 
employ  arp  not  mighty  through  the  fipsh.  but  through  the 
Spirit" 


376  HIS  DOMESTIC  LIFE, 

The  heavy  load  of  cares  and  troubles  which  our  Reformer  had 
to  bear,  was  to  a  certain  extent  lightened  to  him  by  the  kind 
sympathy  and  tender  regards  of  a  noble-minded  spouse.  But 
few  historical  traits,  indeed,  have  been  preserved  to  us,  to  reflect 
the  character  and  disposition  of  this  faithful  companion  of  his 
cares  and  troubles,  that  modesty  and  simplicity  of  nature  which 
belonged  to  her,  and  which  is  the  highest  ornament  of  the  female 
character,  developing  itself  entirely  in  the  seclusion  and  privacy 
of  domestic  life ;  but  these  few  traits  shew  us  that  she  was  worthy 
of  the  faithful  affection  of  her  great  husband.  The  like  Christian 
spirit  which  he  unfolded  in  his  great  and  far-reaching  sphere  of 
labours,  she  manifested  in  the  smaller  sphere  of  household  activity. 
Thus  after  her  marriage  with  Zwingli  she  wore  no  silk  dress,  nor 
gold  rings,  nor  jewels,  but  was  always  simply  attired  like  an 
ordinary  burgher's  or  tradesman's  wife.  The  same  order  and 
economy  which  he  shewed  in  the  employment  of  his  time,  she 
displayed  in  the  conduct  of  the  household  affairs,  and  the  applica- 
tion of  the  scanty  income  at  her  disposal.  In  this  manner,  not- 
withstanding her  limited  means,  she  succeeded  in  exercising  an 
open-hearted  hospitality,  and  in  ministering  to  the  physical  wants 
of  the  poor  and  sick.  Capito's  wish,  which  he  pronounced  to 
Zwingli  at  the  wedding,  was  fulfilled ;  she  could  with  justice  be 
called  "  a  fellow-servant  in  the  Word,  a  help-meet  of  an  apostle." 

Wlien  Zwingli  came  into  the  family  circle,  he  had  left  the 
gown  of  the  man  of  learning  and  the  thinker  behind  him;  he 
had  also  laid  aside  the  rough  garment  of  Christ's  warrior. 
Wherever  Zwingli  was  there  he  was  all  and  undivided.  His 
intellectual  intercourse  with  his  wife  did  not  consist  in  a  talk 
upon  the  learned  or  scientific  questions  of  the  day,  or  the  great 
conflicts  in  which  the  Reformer  was  engaged ;  their  topics  of  con- 
versation were,  the  Christian  ordering  of  the  household  economy, 
and  especially  the  Christian  education  of  their  children;  and  it 
was  in  the  happy  attainment  of  such  objects  that  they  set  the 
joys  of  their  domestic  life.  The  letter  is  characteristic  which 
Zwingli  wrote  to  his  wife  from  Berne,  when  he  attended  the 
Disputation  in  that  town,  upon  his  hearing  that  she  had  been 
delivered  of  a  girl:  "Grace  and  peace  from  God,  dearest 
wife.  1  praise  God  that  He  hath  given  you  a  liappy 
delivery.       He    will    gniut    us    grace    to    l)riug    up    our   little 


HIS  DOMESTIC  LIFE.  877 

daughter  according  to  His  will.  Send  me,  for  my  niece, 
one  or  two  coifs,  such  as  you  wear  yourself  She  is  of  good 
family,  but  not  a  nun ;  her  age  is  about  forty.  I  commend  you 
to  God.  Pray  to  God  for  me,  and  for  us  all.  Greet  for  me  all 
your  children.  Especially  comfort  Margaretha  in  my  name."* 
Thus  his  heart  beat  warmly  both  for  spouse  and  children.  What 
a  serious  vicM'  he  took  of  the  work  of  education,  appears  from 
his  treatise  on  the  subject,  which  he  got  printed  for  his  step-son, 
Gerold  Meyer.  We  shall  extract  from  his  writings  some  of  his 
principles  upon  this  subject,  and  here  insert  them:  "  The  human 
mind  is  like  a  garden,  which,  if  not  cultivated,  is  soon  overgrown 
with  weeds.  From  y(juth  up,  therefore,  it  must  be  trained  and 
cultivated.  If  this  be  done,  a  precious  treasure  is  hai'vested ; 
but  where  it  is  not  done,  neither  hand,  eye,  nor  tongue  are  placed 
under  control,  and  the  man  is  an  ill-regulated  being.  Can  good 
fruit  be  obtained  from  a  garden  full  of  weeds?  This  is  the  cause 
that  oi-phans  and  bastards  mostly  turn  out  ill ;  they  have  no 
parent  to  train  and  educate  them."  "  Satan  desires  to  nestle  in 
the  hearts  of  the  young,  and  to  defile  and  destroy  these  as  yet 
pure  vessels.  Wherefore  the  greatest  care  is  requisite  that  they 
be  trained  in  the  nurture  and  fear  of  the  Lord,  and  that  these 
new  vessels  be  filled  with  good  habits  and  principles.  Many 
busy  themselves  in  hanging  their  likeness  everywhere,  that  their 
names  may  be  made  famous,  and  their  family  become  illustrious, 
while  they  neglect  and  despise  at  once  God's  image  and  the  tnie 
living  images  of  themselves.  The  peasant  takes  care,  in  fixed 
order,  to  plant  in  one  place  trees,  in  another  vines,  here  willows, 
there  vegetables,  and  yonder  corn,  that  his  grounds  may  be 
planted  with  fruits  of  all  sorts.  If  parents  and  teachers  bestowed 
the  same  care  upon  the  training  of  the  youthful  mind,  we  should 
see  it  in  a  Itetter  state  at  the  present  day.  It  is  not  enough  that 
children  be  taught  to  read  and  to  write,  they  must  al.>^o  be  (rained 
to  principles  of  morality,  and  to  regulate  their  whole  life.  The  vine, 
like  every  other  training  plant,  lays  hold  of  eveiything  that  comes 
in  its  way,  without  distinetion,  fastens  to  it,  and  winds  itself  about 
it,  as,  for  example,  round  a  stake  or  pole.  For  children,  the 
father  is  the  tree  or  luitural  prop.  Parents  ought  therefore  to 
best<iw  great  care  on  the  right  education  of  their  cliildren." 

•   This  short   lottvr.  as  well  as  thr  ic<ni(st    sent    from    Basle  to  the  intimate 


378  HIS  DOMESTIC  LIFT. 

The  Ee foiiner  knew,  in  a  very  ingenious  manner,  to  awaken 
and  to  draw  to  himself  the  tender  germs  of  intellectual  develop- 
ment, as  they  manifested  themselves  in  the  yotmg  hearts  of  his 
children  This  man,  who  investigated  with  such  penetration 
and  zeal  the  sacred  depths  in  which  truth  conceals  itself  from  the 
unconsecrated  eye,  who  wrought  in  the  vineyard  of  the  Lord 
with  the  lofty  ardour  of  an  apostle — ^this  man  we  often  find,  in 
his  hours  of  recreation,  at  the  cradle  of  his  little  one,  singing 
children's  songs  to  the  accompaniment  of  the  lute  or  some  other 
instrument  which  he  knew.  "  Music,  which  I  have  diligently 
cultivated  from  boyhood"*  he  writes  to  Faber,  who  reproached 
him  with  it  •  often  renders  me  good  service  with  the  children, 
ia  putting  them  iu  good  humour  or  sending  them  to  sleep.'" 
Often  at  such  moments,  as  he  sang  one  of  those  mountain  airs 
which  so  wonderfully  affect  the  Swiss  heart,  and  recalled  to  his 
memory  the  image  of  the  happy  days  of  his  youth,  he  may  have 
sighed  to  escape  the  conflicts  and  troubles  of  life,  and  give  him- 
seK  up  to  the  pleasures  of  a  sense  delighting  with  child-Hke 
simplicity  in  God  Indeed  he  often  confesses  in  his  writings, 
that  were  he  to  follow  the  flesh,  he  would  willingly  retire  into 
seclusion,  and  give  up  the  contest ;  but  Christ  impels  him  to  this 
work,  and  he  will  follow  his  Lord  and  not  his  own  personal 
inclinations. 

Zwingli  had,  by  Anna  Eeinhard,  four  children,  two  sons  and 
two  daughters.  The  eldest  daughter,  Regula,  bore  a  strong  Like- 
ness to  her  mother.  She  married,  in  1541,  Ealph  Gwalther, 
Zwingli's  second  successor,  as  Antistes  in  the  Zurich  Church,  and 

friend  of  his  family,  that  he  might  please  enlighten  his  vnfe  upon  the  object  of 
his  jonrnev  to  3Iarbnrg.  give  tis  a  pretty  clear  view  of  the  relation  in  which 
Zwingli  stood  to  his  wife.  The  education  of  his  children  lay  chiefly  at  his 
hean:  for  this  he  besought  the  grace  of  God  for  himself  and  for  her.  From  his 
spouse  he  fanher  desires  that  she  should  take  a  part,  through  her  pravers,  iu 
the  struggles  for  the  weal  of  the  Church.  The  stories,  however,  about  his  read- 
ing satyrical  verses  and  polemical  writings  to  her,  are  to  be  set  down  as  fables, 
having  their  origin  in  rather  an  unhappy  imitation  of  Luther's  relation  to  hi 
Kate.  VThen  she  sat  by  Luther  at  the  study-table,  and  the  idle  housewife  asked, 
*•  Doctor,  is  the  Chancellor  of  Prussia  the  brother  of  the  Margrave  ?  "  (thev  were, 
a^  is  well  known,  one  and  the  same  person.;  or  when,  on  the  occasion  of  a 
quarrel  berween  Luther  and  Erasmus^  she  was  led  to  exclaim-  "What  a  nastr 
toad  that  Erasmus  is,''  her  position  is  rather  ridiculous  than  worthy  of  imitation. 
♦  Zwingli  could  play  all  the  musical  instrument?  then  kno^-n.  according  to 
the  concurring  testimony  of  his  contemporaries. 


ZWIXGU  AMONG  HIS  FBIEXDa  S79 

died  of  the  plague,  in  1 565 ;  the  youngest  daughter.  Anna  died 
early.  William,  the  eldest  son.  died  in  1541,  as  student  of  theo- 
logy at  Strasburg;  Huldreich,  the  younger,  bom  in  1528,  became 
afterwards  deacon  at  the  Great  Minster,  and  professor  of  theology 
at  Zurich.  "SVith  him  the  male  line  of  the  Reformer  became 
extinct.  The  family  of  the  name  of  Zwingli  that  stiU  flourishes 
in  the  Canton  of  Zurich,  is  descended  from  one  of  his  brothers, 
who  purchased  the  right  of  citizenship  in  Elly,  canton  of  Zurich. 


2.    ZWEN-GLI  A3I0yG  HIS  FbIEXDS. 

The  circle  that  surrounded  the  Reformer  in  his  simple  home 
was  not  confined  to  the  members  of  his  family,  but  was  very 
materially  increased  by  the  visits  of  his  numerous  friends  and 
admirers,  who  often  came  fixtm  a  considerable  distance,  seeking 
instruction,  counsel,  or  assistance  from  him.  For  the  friends  and 
supporter?  of  evangelical  truth  who  lived  in  Zurich.  Zwinglis 
house  was  a  general  rendez\ous.  as  well  for  social  amusement  as 
for  serious  discussion,  and  the  free  interchange  of  thought  in  the 
cause  of  truth.  Here  the  heads  of  the  State  often  assembled :  the 
two  heroic  Roists,  the  father  and  the  son.  who.  one  after  the  other, 
filled  with  distincrion  the  highest  official  dignitv;  the  council- 
lors,  Ulrich  Funk,  who  accompanied  Zwingli  to  Marburg,  a 
Thumeisen,  WerdmueUer.  Peier.  and  the  still  young  Gerold 
Meyer  of  Knonan,  who  had  begun  to  devote  to  the  service  of  the 
State  the  great  talents  and  acquirements  which  he  had  cultivated 
under  Zwinglis  direcrion.  and  which  gave  the  brightest  promise 
of  future  distinction.  There  were  the  men  of  the  Church  and  of 
science,  the  little,  loveable,  but  again  so  courageous  Leo  Jud, 
whom  Zwingli  often  jocularly  called  "his  little  hon:''  the 
learned  and  noble-minded  pastor,  Engelhard,  of  the  Frauen-muen- 
ster,  who  despised  the  learned  title  of  "  Doctor."  preferring  rather 
to  be  called  a  disciple  of  Christ ;  pastor  Megauder.  and  the 
canons  and  professors,  Uttinger.  Ceporin.  Myconius.  Ammann. 
Pellican,  the  schohir  and  friend,  Reuclilius  Brennwald,  and  Wer- 
ner Steiner.  who  wiis  forced  to  leave  liis  native  canton  Zug.  and 
who  found  here  a  new  home  among  friends  that  were  dear  to  him 
Nor  could  the  noble-minded  Diebold  von  Gero]d.'«eck  longer  resist 


880  ZWINGLI  AMONG  HIS  FRIENDS. 

the  impulse  of  his  heart.  This  excellent  man  left  EinsieJeln  in 
order  to  live  in  the  vicinity  of  Zwingii,  although  once  his  spirit 
was  filled  with  a  sad  foreboding,  when  he  saw  the  friends  of 
evangelical  truth  betaking  themselves,  one  after  another,  to 
Zurich,  (see  page  114.)  A  select  circle  of  friends  of  vocal  and 
instrumental  music,  placed  themselves  under  the  skiKul  leader- 
ship of  Zwingii,  for  the  organisation  of  musical  parties  at  each 
others'  houses.  Out  of  these  highly  agreeable  musical  entertain- 
ments there  sprang,  as  citizens  and  peasants  readily  took  their 
domestic  habits  at  this  great  period  from  their  venerated  pastor, 
the  fine  quartette  for  sacred  music, — which  became  general  in  the 
cottages  of  reformed  Switzerland,  and  which  was  afterwards 
transplanted  into  the  Church.  Zwingii  and  his  friends  may 
therefore,  on  good  grounds,  be  regarded  as  the  founders,  as  well  of 
those  evening  musical  entertainments,  still,  at  least  in  winter,  so 
common  in  reformed  Switzerland,  and  which  are  attended  with 
such  beneficial  effects,  as  of  the  fine  quartette  in  sacred  music.  * 

At  their  meetings  the  assembled  friends  discussed  the  great 
concerns  of  the  gospel.  A  principal  suljject  of  deliberation  was 
the  mode  in  which  it  was  to  be  carried  to  victory  in  church  and 
state,  and  the  free  preaching  of  the  Word  secured  against  the 
assaults  of  an  insolent  and  powerful  enemy.  The  ministers  and 
the  men  of  learning  communicated  the  results  of  their  investiga- 
tions to  one  another,  ever  developing  new  views  in  the  depart- 
ments of  Christian  doctrine  and  science ;  their  discussions, 
however,  were  always  conducted  in  a  spirit  of  pure  love  to  the 
truth,  and  free  from  all  personal  considerations.  "  Whoever  finds 
me  wrong,"  writes  Zwingii,  "  let  him,  with  Christian  love,  tell  me 
I  am  wrong,  as  often  as  he  finds  me  in  error.  Nay,  if  he  thinks 
fit,  let  him  bring  the  truth  to  light,  for  the  common  good,  without 
any  regard  to  me  at  all,  because  our  friends  are  accustomed  to 
listen  to  the  suggestions  of  the  brethren.  How  often,  for  exam- 
ple, has  it  occurred,  that  I  have  changed  my  opinion,  after  hear- 
ing the  observations  of  my  colleagues,  Pellican  and  Leo  Jud, 
and  they  on  hearing  mine.      In  my  opinion,  truth  is  to  the 

*  For  this  opinion,  here,  as  far  as  I  know,  for  the  first  time,  expressed,  I  conld 
advance  many  historical  proofs.  As,  however,  this  is  not  the  proper  place  for 
these,  I  coniine  myself  to  expressing  the  wish  that  those  who  are  interested  in 
the  history  of  our  church-music  may  not  overlook  the  hint  here  given. 


ZWINGLI  AMONG  HIS  FRIENDS.  381 

liuinan  smil,  wliat  tlic  sun  is  tu  the  world.  AMiorever  he  rises 
we  hail  him  with  joy,  ami  ^ird  ourselves  cheerfully  to  our  work. 
In  the  same  manner  the  soul  rejoices  in  the  light  of  truth  when- 
ever it  beams  upon  her ;  she  looks  joyfully  up  and  congratulates 
herself  that  the  darkn(>ss  of  ignorance  has  been  chased  away  by 
its  radiance.  As  nothing  can  be  more  welcome  to  the  world 
than  the  sun,  so  nothing  can  be  more  lovely,  more  precious,  more 
sublime,  in  the  estimation  of  the  soul,  than  truth."  In  another 
place,  he  says:  "  Wlioever  brings  the  truth  to  light,  be  it  even 
through  a  calumny  of  myself,  becomes  thereby  my  friend;  he 
enriches,  rejoices  my  soul,  and  leads  her  to  higher  heights  of 
accomplishment.  Let  my  enemies,  then,  lose  no  time  in  dissi- 
pating from  my  mind  the  mists  of  error ;  let  them  blacken  my 
name  and  reputation  to  their  heart's  content;  if  I  am  illuminated 
I  am  content,  and  already  begin  to  be  here,  that  which  T  one  day 
hope  to  be  by  God  in  heaven." 

But  from  the  far  distance  the  friends  of  evangelical  truth  were 
to  be  seen,  like  pilgrims  betaking  themselves  to  some  sanctuary, 
journeying  to  Zurich  and  to  Zwingli,  there  seeking  increase  in 
knowledge,  or  protection  against  oppression,  or  help  in  outward 
trouble.  To  all,  how  various  soever  their  situation  or  necessities 
might  be,  the  Reformer's  house  stood  open,  and  while  they  par- 
took at  his  table  of  a  frank  hospitality,  their  minds  were 
instructed  by  his  conversation,  and  confirmed  in  the  truth ;  they 
had  higher  aims  pointed  out  to  them,  and  they  were  led  on  to 
nobler  endeavours.  AVhat  a  piebald  host  of  men  from  the 
various  countries  of  Europe,  have  received  liberal  supplies  for  the 
soul  and  the  body,  in  the  simple  house  of  the  parish  ])riest  at  the 
Great  Minster.  Ulrich  Duke  of  Wirtemberg,  expelled  from  his 
countr\',  and  sojourning  for  a  time  in  Zurich,  was  one  of 
Zwingli's  regular  hearers,  and  a  gue.*it  at  his  board.  lender  the 
Keformer's  wholesome  inlluence,  the  worldling  gradually  freed 
himself  from  the  snares  of  youthful  levity  to  which  he  owed  his 
misfortunes  and  his  bani.shment,  and  ripening  into  a  more  serious 
and  manly  character,  became  worthier  of  the  better  ftjrtunes 
which  his  reformation  afterwards  gained  for  him.  Hither,  too, 
must  his  bitterest  enemy,  Ulrich  von  Ilutten,  direct  his  fiight,  who 
had  effect(Hl  liy  the  power  (jf  his  writings  tlie  l>uke's  fall,  to  find 
fmm    Zwingli.  as    alreadv  mentioned,  the    most    magnanimous 


382  ZWINGLl  AMONG  HIS  FRIENDS. 

support  and  aid  in  his  hour  of  trial,  so  that  his  soul  lived  again 
with  the  best  hopes  for  the  friends  of  truth.  Hither,  too,  the 
young  Polish  noble,  John  von  Lasky,  arrayed  in  the  rich  and 
picturesque  costume  of  the  nobles  of  his  country,  directed  his  foot- 
steps, while  the  barefoot  monk,  Lambert  of  Avignon,  was  to  be 
seen  travelling  the  same  road,  in  the  grey  gown  of  his  order. 
Here  the  cool-headed  Dutchmen,  Ehodius  and  Sagan,  met  the 
fiery  Italians,  who,  from  love  to  the  truth,  were  prepared  to 
exchange  their  beautiful  fatherland  for  a  new  home  under  a  raw 
northern  sky.  Here  Anemundus  Coctus,  the  nobleman,  glowing 
with  the  love  of  evangelical  truth  from  Dauphiny,  sought  counsel 
as  to  how  the  truth  might  be  rendered  triumphant  in  France. 
Hither,  too,  the  poor  witness  of  the  truth,  Hans  Eaebmann,  who 
was  blinded  in  both  eyes  by  the  orders  of  the  Earl  of  Sulz,  in 
Klettgau,  was  led  to  Zwingli,  the  friend  of  all  the  afflicted,  for 
consolation  and  aid.*  By  Zwingli's  influence,  the  cruelly  mal- 
treated minister  of  the  gospel  was  elected  pastor  of  Lufingen, 
where,  for  thirty  years,  he  laboured  with  blessing,  and  was  after- 
wards appointed  pastor  in  the  hospital  of  Zurich. 

But  although  Zwingli's  house  was  thus  an  asylum  of  safety 
and  consolation  to  the  hard-pressed  sons  of  affliction,  his  large 
heart  was  by  no  means  closed  against  manly  joy;  grieving  with 
the  grieved,  he  could  also  rejoice  with  the  glad.  We  find  him 
sometimes  taking  a  part  in  those  civil  and  popular  festivities, 
which  have  ever  been  common  in  Switzerland,  like  a  real  man  of 
the  people,  that  equally  shares  the  joys  and  sorrows  of  his  fellow- 
citizens.  In  August  1526,  the  following  festivity  took  place: 
The  friend  of  his  youth.  Burgomaster  Vadian  of  St.  Gall,  came 
with  about  thirty  sharp-shooters  to  Zurich  to  a  shooting-match. 
In   honour  of  these  esteemed  guests,  who  shortly  before  had 

*  Hans  Eaebmann  was  a  native  of  Thurgau,  but  brougbt  up  in  Waldshut, 
and  appointed  pastor  at  Klettgau.  Becoming  suspected  to  the  nobility  of  the 
place  as  a  friend  of  the  Reformation,  he  had  his  two  eyes  burned  out  by  a  spoon- 
like instrument,  made  red-hot,  at  the  command  of  Count  Rudolf,  of  Sulz,  in  the 
castle  of  Kuessenberg,  after  the  suppression  of  the  peasant-insurrection,  and  in 
this  state  he  was  sent,  along  with  two  others,  who  had  their  fingers  cut  off,  to 
Waldshut.  On  the  taking  of  this  town  he  was  marched  out  of  the  gate  to  the 
sound  of  drums,  and  pipes,  as  an  object  of  general  mockery.  Thus  he  came  to 
Zurich.  In  Lusingen  his  memory  still  lives  in  the  name  of  a  bridge,  which  was 
built  under  his  direction  over  the  Toess,  and  which  is  called,  "Tiie  Blindman's 
Bridge." 


ZWINGLl's  SEARCH  AVTKli  TiaXlI.  383 

engaged  to  staud  by  Zurich  with  their  all,  and  to  the  last  drop 
of  their  blood,  a  grand  festive  banquet  was  got  up  by  all  the 
guilds.  To  this  banquet  eight  hundred  persons  marched  in 
procession  through  the  town,  trumpets,  pipes,  and  drums  playing. 
Z^\'ingli,  too,  and  his  colleagues,  were  in  the  number  of  the 
guests.  In  his  opinion,  participation  in  public  festivals  was 
sanctioned  in  Scripture,  anil  hallowed  by  the  example  of  our 
Saviour.  Let  us  fancy  to  ourselves  the  Eeformer,  seated  next 
liis  friend  Vadian,  formerly  Ivcctor  of  the  High  School  of  Vienna, 
surrounded  by  illustrious  warriors  and  statesmen,  begirt  by  a 
circle  of  like-minded  friends  and  colleagues,  and  flanked  by  a 
crowd  of  enthusia.stic  youths,  ripening  into  years  of  manhood — 
all  animated  with  the  resolution  of  daring  everything  in  the 
cause  of  evangelical  truth,  and  the  gloiy  of  their  native  countr}'- ; 
and  we  have  one  of  those  genuine  Swiss  popular  demonstrations 
in  which  the  glory  of  a  free  Christian  State  finely  displays  itself. 
"With  his  friends  at  a  distance  our  Reformer  carried  on  an 
animated  correspondence,  a  monument  of  which  exists  in  his 
numerous  letters  still  preserved  to  us,  although  the  collection  is 
far  from  being  complete.  Tliese  aftbrd  us  a  striking  testimony 
to  his  steady  friendship,  and  the  deep  interest  he  took  in  the 
weal  and  woe  of  individual  fellow-labourers  in  the  vineyard  of 
the  Lord,  as  well  as  of  the  Eeformed  Church  generally.  They 
also  present  us,  and  all  the  more  that  they  are  the  spontaneous 
effusions  of  the  moment,  with  a  faithful  image  of  his  great  soul, 
pure  at  once  and  lofty.  AVe  see  it  divesting  itself  of  all  that  is 
essentially  low  and  common,  which  will  be  found  still  to  adliere 
to  many  even  of  the  best  of  his  contemporaries.  We  see  it 
unweariedly  soaring  into  higher  regions  of  intellectual  and  moral 
development. 


o.  ZwixGLi's  Search  after  Truth,  or  his  Intellectual  Con- 
verse WITH  THE  Holy  and  the  CIkkat  ]\Iex  of  Antiquity. 

If  the  Kefonner  stood  in  the  closest  relations  to  the  present  by 
the  activity  of  his  ver}'  practical  mind,  by  the  manif<»ld  friendly 
relations  he  ciiltivated,  both  personally  and  by  letter,  as  also  by 
the    hot  conflicts    he  waged  with   his  adversaries,  he    kept  up. 


384  ZWINGLl  S  SEAECH  AFTEE  TEUTH. 

ill  his  ardent  inquiries  after  truth,  an  intercourse  scarcely  less 
familiar  with  those  great  and  holy  men  of  the  past,  whom  God 
animated  with  His  Spirit  to  proclaim  His  truth  to  the  world. 
Whoever  will  rightly  u.nderstand  the  Scriptures,  must  make  him- 
self acquainted  with  the  languages  in  which  they  were  originally 
written,  and  with  the  various  relations  which  characterised,  and 
the  ideas  current  at  the  time  of  their  composition,  in  order  that 
he  may  be  able  to  distinguish  the  kernel  of  divine  truth  from  the 
human  hull  in  which  it  was  of  necessity  wrapped,  in  order  that  it 
might  be  made  intelligible  and  comprehensible  to  the  human 
mind.  Accordingly,  Zwingli,  after  he  had  proposed  to  himself 
the  pure  and  unadulterated  preaching  of  the  Word  of  God, 
directed  his  efforts  unweariedly  to  obtain  a  nearer  accpiaintance 
with  the  sacred  oracles.  We  have  already  seen  with  what  zeal 
he  studied  the  writings  of  the  New  Testament  in  the  original 
language  in  which  they  were  written.  We  have  seen  that  he 
copied  out  all  the  letters  of  Paul  in  Greek  characters,  that  he 
might  have  them  ever  by  him,  and  learn  them  by  heart.  From 
this  time  forward  he  read  and  studied  the  Old  Testament,  not  in 
the  often  erroneous  and  incorrect  Latin  translation  known  as  the 
Vulgate,  the  only  one  in  use,  and  authorised  by  the  Eomish 
Church,  but  in  the  more  correct  Greek  Septuagint.  But  even  this 
in  the  sequel  was  not  enough  for  the  man  who  would  draw  truth 
alone  from  the  fountain-head.  The  Eeformer,  in  the  zenith  of 
his  fame,  and  in  the  midst  of  his  manifold  reforming  labours, 
formed  the  resolution  to  learn  Hebrew.  A  certain  Andrew  Boes- 
chenstein  came  to  Zurich,  and  offered  to  give  instructions  in  it. 
Zwingli  was  his  first,  and  probably  his  most  enthusiastic  scholar. 
Impelled  by  his  zeal,  and  favoured  by  his  great  talent  for  lan- 
guages, he  was  soon  in  a  position  to  read  the  most  difficult  books 
of  the  Old  Testament  with  ease,  and  to  explain  them  in  his  own 
perspicuous  and  fundamental  manner. 

Upon  the  importance  of  the  study  of  the  Hebrew  language 
Zwingli  observes,  in  his  comprehensive  preface  to  his  "  Explana- 
tion of  Isaiah :"  "  The  ignorance  of  Hebrew  forms  of  expression 
has  led  to  an  erroneous  interpretation  of  many  passages  of  Scrip- 
ture, not  only  by  those  unlearned  and  reckless  individuals,  who 
pass  sweeping  judgments,  with  the  more  arrogance  the  greater 
their  ignorance  is,  on  all  the  subjects  of  antiquity,  but  even  by 


ZWINliLl's  SKAKlU  AF'l'KR  Tlil'TII.  .*}85 

II  Illy  pious  and  Icanird  lucii  lliniiselves.  Now  certain  figiin-s 
i>r  .speech  are  so  peculiar  and  native  to  the  Hebrew,  that  it  is 
impossible  to  render  them  into  any  other  huiguage.  Traiishitors 
and  commentators,  however,  have  given  us  the  Hebrew  forms  of 
e.\i)res.sion  without  breaking  down  and  reducing  the  figures  they 
contain,  which  are  untranshitable  into  any  foreign  hmguage 
whatever,  so  as  to  present  us  with  their  real  signification  and 
sense.  They  have  not  changed  these  images  into  correspondent 
terms  and  iigures  in  another  language.  Thus  we  have  transla- 
tittns  in  whicli  the  words  indeed  are  counted,  but  the  thoughts 
carelessly  and  dubiously  expres.sed.  Hence  obscurity,  ignorance, 
uncertainty  what  to  make  of  the  meaning.  The  still  worse  conse- 
(piences  follow  of  dissension,  impudent  declamations,  upon  things 
which  one  does  not  at  all  understand,  and  violent  invectives 
against  the  opponent.  For  the  words  being  understood  accord- 
ing to  the  rudiments  of  grammar,  but  the  thoughts  not  being  at 
all  comprehended,  the  interpreter  of  the  sense,  partly  out  of  the 
shame  of  confessing  his  ignorance,  partly  out  of  self-love,  which 
makes  us  more  confident  than  we  ought  to  be,  and  attempt  more 
than  we  can  accomplish,  gives  way  to  assumptions,  and  to  the 
fabrication  of  foolish  allegories,  while  he  ought  to  have  turned 
his  attention  to  the  investigation  of  antiquity,  and  made  himself 
thoroughly  convereant  with  the  customs  and  modes  of  thinking 
of  each  particidar  age  in  which  the  authors  may  have  lived  and 
written.  Then  it  wouhl  have  been  seen  that  although  indeed  a 
skill  in  composition,  such  as  the  Greeks  and  Romans  display  in 
the  an-angement  of  the  parts,  may  be  missed,  (although  many 
passages  are  to  be  met  with  to  which  the  most  finished  art  can 
add  nothing,)  an  incomparable  light  and  warmth  is  discoverable 
in  the  words  and  thoughts ;  then  we  should  have  penetrated  into 
the  knowledge  of  the  ideas  and  tropes,  the  images  and  the  figures 
of  speech  which  meet  us  at  ever)'  turn  in  the  books  of  Scripture, 
so  that  there  is  scarcely  a  single  sentence  in  tlie  Bih>le  that  can 
be  opened  by  any  other  keys  but  such  as  tlu'se;  then  wo  should 
have  clearly  known  the  thouf/hts  of  inspiration,  and  not  rashly 
substituted  our  own  for  the  thoughts  of  Scripture;  then  long  ago 
all  uncertainty  would  have  disapjieared.  I  do  not  say  this  in  a 
boastful  spirit,  as  if  in  my  interi)retation  I  had  completely  opened 
up  the  .sense,  but  because  I   find  tliat  inv  predece.ssors  in  inter- 

2b 


886  Z^VINGLl'S  SEARCH  AFTER  TRUTH. 

pretation  have  nowliere  been  more  successful  in  tlie  work  tlian 
where  they  had  these  resources  at  hand."  The  knowledge 
of  Hebrew  is  also  requisite,  in  Zwingli's  opinion,  to  the  right 
understanding  of  the  Greek  writings  of  the  New  Testament; 
"for,"  says  he,  "the  Lord  Jesus  and  the  writers  of  the  New 
Testament  were  Hebrews,  and  they  transfeiTed  the  peculiarities 
of  their  mother  tongue  into  the  Greek,  just  as  we  iind  Latin 
written  after  the  German  idiom,  and  German  after  the  Latin 
idiom,  by  those  who  are  not  thoroughly  conversant  with  both 
languages."  The  writings  of  Greece  and  Eome,  too,  which  give 
us  so  clear  an  insight  into  the  relations  and  the  modes  of  think- 
ing which  prevailed  in  ancient  times,  were  held  by  our  Eeformer 
to  be  helps  towards  obtaining  the  true  sense  of  Scripture, 
although  independently  of  this  consideration,  he  by  no  means 
undervalued  these  writings  as  models  of  eloquence,  nor  shut  his 
eyes  to  the  manifold  beauties  they  contain.  In  the  light  of  a  faith 
kindled  in  his  soul  at  the  writings  of  the  prophets  and  apostles, 
the  artistic  beauties  of  the  Greek  and  Eoman  classics  shone  only 
in  higher  lustre  before  his  mind's  eye.  We  observe  this  espe- 
cially in  the  preface  with  which  he  accompanied  an  edition  of 
Pindar,  edited  by  Ceporin,  from  which  we  extract  the  following 
passage :  "  If  it  can  be  said  of  any  one,  it  may  be  said  of  Pindar, 
he  had  an  uncorrupted  intellect,  that  was  ever  striving  after  the 
true,  the  holy,  the  pure.  The  stream  of  his  poetry  flows  on 
undulating  in  the  clearest  waves.  AU  in  them  is  learned,  taste- 
ful, pure,  fitting,  of  antique  cast,  wise,  noble,  captivating,  com- 
prehensive, finished.  Sublimely  he  speaks — of  the  gods,  indeed, 
not,  however,  of  that  crowd  of  gods,  but,  under  their  names,  of 
the  one  divine  and  heavenly  Being.  It  would  take  up  too  much 
time  to  illustrate  by  examples  all  that  I  have  said  in  praise  of 
Pindar's  language  and  imagery.  I  would  simply  kindle  a  light 
for  the  curious  reader,  that  he  may  hasten  immediately  and  dig 
these  treasures  for  himself.  In  my  opinion  there  is  no  Greek 
author  so  weU-fitted  to  throw  light  on  Scripture  as  Pindar,  espe- 
cially on  the  most  difficult  of  the  Hebrew  songs  and  hymns,  as 
for  example,  the  Psalms  and  Job.  For  we  have  songs  from 
these  men  of  God  that  not  only  surpass  all  others  in  depth  of 
thought  and  piety  of  feeling,  but  which  are  second  to  none,  not 
even  to  Pindar's  poems,  in  art,  dignity,  and  grace.     But  neglect- 


ZWlNGLl'S  SEARCH  AFTER  TRUTH.  3.S7 

ing,  as  we  Jo,  the  study  of  the  ancients,  (for  we  are  more  con- 
cerned our  own  works  be  read  than  others',)  we  forcibly  ex])ress 
from  the  Hebrew  poets  a  sense  quite  foreign  to  them.  That  we 
may  get  rid  of  these  lamentabk^  results,  at  once  of  ignorance  and 
presumption,  let  us  repair  to  this  poet,  that  he  may  lend  us  of 
the  gold,  the  silver,  and  the  splendid  dresses  in  which  he  is  so 
rich,  that  with  his  expressions  we  may  be  able  to  designate-  the 
tnith,  or  if  it  should  be  denied  us  to  become  acquainted  with 
herself,  that  we  may  at  least  make  a  nearer  approach  to  it,  by 
contemplating  more  closely  her  shining  vesture.  I  don't  con- 
cern myself  with  those  repulsive  grovellers  to  whom  pnrity  itself 
is  impure,  and  who  deem  it  the  greatest  crime  to  read  a  heathen 
poet.  I  am  not  recommending  every  poet,  but  him  from  the  perusal 
of  whose  works  we  cannot  possibly  sustain  loss,  but  may  draw 
infinite  profit  and  advantage,  and  who,  in  the  investigation  of 
the  Hebrew  writings,  will  be  of  more  service  to  us  than  all  the 
other  Greek  and  Roman  poets  put  together.  The  age  of  antiquity, 
like  every  other  age,  has  it  own  peculiarities,  which  can  alone 
be  laid  hold  of  by  a  familiar  intercourse  with  the  ancients. 
Pindar,  however,  has  not  only  in  his  language,  but  in  his  spirit 
and  innermost  being,  resemblance  with  this  sacred  age.  IMay 
God  grant  that  we  learn  from  the  heathen  poet  to  understand  the 
truth  pronnilgated  l;>y  the  Hebrews,  and  to  set  her  gracefully 
before  the  minds  of  meiL"  With  the  same  lapid  glance  by  which 
Paul  saw  the  altar  to  "  the  unknown  God"  at  Athens  pointing 
to  the  alone  true  God,  and  read  in  the  sentence  of  a  heathen 
poet  (Acts  xvii.  23-28.)  the  evidence  of  man's  affinity  to  his 
Creator,  Zwingli,  while  studying  the  Greek  and  Roman  authors 
as  helps  to  the  right  understanding  of  Scripture,  perceived  in 
them  the  traces  of  a  divine  revelation,  made  by  God's  grace 
even  to  the  heathens.  "  Religion,"  says  he,  "  has  not  been 
confined  within  the  boundaries  of  Palestine,  since  God  did  not 
alone  create  Palestine;  He  created  the  whole  world.  The  animat- 
ing and  enlightening  ]>ower  of  His  Spirit  shows  itself  everywhere 
operative.  All  is  divine  which  istnie,  holy,  genuine;  for  God  is 
tnith.  Whoever  speaks  truth,  speaks  from  God,  and  God  has 
enlightened  him.  I  venture  even  to  call  that  divine,  which  is 
borrowed  from  the  heathens,  in  so  far  as  it  is  holy,  tends  to  piety, 
and  is  undeniably  true.      For  this  must  come  from  God,  no 


nS8  ZWINGLl'S  SEARCH  AFTER  TRUTH. 

matter  tliroiigh  what  cliannels  it  arrives  at  us.  AVlien  I  quote 
profane  testimony,  I  am  not  to  be  deterred  from  doing  so,  by  the 
animadversions  of  those  who  have  not  learned  that  a  writing 
deserves  only  then  to  be  called  holy,  when  it  proclaims  the 
mind  and  will  of  the  holy,  pure,  eternal,  and  infallible  One 
Spirit.  If  you  find  then  in  Plato,  or  Pythagoras,  something  you 
recognise  as  deriving  its  origin  from  the  source  of  truth,  you  are 
not  to  despise  it  because  a  mortal  has  penned  it ;  it  is  much 
more  your  duty  to  seek  thereby  a  more  familiar  converse  with 
the  Deity,  that  you  may  with  a  clearer  eye  contemplate  the  truth, 
inasmuch  as  you  see  that  those  who  did  not  dare  openly  to  con- 
fess their  faith  in  one  God,  yet  had  it  within  them.  Wherever 
this  faith  discovers  itself,  it  is  from  God,  let  a  man  dwell  among 
the  beasts.  We  quote  the  words  of  Seneca  and  of  Plato,  because 
they  are  derived  from  the  source  of  divine  truth.  For  we  who 
regard  not  luho  writes,  but  tvhat  is  written,  willingly  accept 
truth,  even  from  the  hands  of  the  heathens,  knowing  that  all  truth 
is  of  God,  by  whomsoever  it  be  revealed." 

Although  Zwingli  saw  with  the  same  clear  and  unjaundiced 
eye  with  which  Paul  read  the  law,  written  in  the  hearts  of  the 
Gentiles,  (Eom.  il  1 4.)  as  an  eternal  divine  revelation,  the  traces 
of  revealed  truth  as  they  discovered  themselves  in  the  writings 
of  Greece  and  Eome,  hailed  them  with  joy,  and  found  himself 
thereby  confirmed  in  his  enthusiasm  for  these  master  j^ieces  of 
antiquity,  he  did  not  close  his  eyes  to  the  perversity  of  moral 
vision  apparent  even  in  the  best  of  them.  It  was  this  very 
corruption  of  the  moral  sense  which  afforded  him  the  clearest 
evidence  of  the  native  depravity  of  the  heart  of  man,  as  taught 
in  Scripture,  and  more  particularly,  in  the  Epistle  of  Paul  to  the 
Romans.  "When  Cicero,"  Zwingli  writes,  "asserts  in  his  speech 
for  the  poet  Archias,  that  man  does  all  from  the  desire  of  glory, 
he  so  closely  agrees  with  the  statement  of  Paul,  '  I  know  that  in 
me,  (that  is  in  my  flesh)  dwelleth  no  good  thing,'  Eom.  vii.  18, 
that  his  assertion  appears  rather  the  result  of  divine  inspiration, 
than  the  reflection  of  the  ambitious  and  vain-glorious  Cicero. 
For  how  else  could  he  so  far  betray  himself,  as  to  maintain  here, 
that  a  desire  of  glory  is  the  moving  spring  of  all  our  actions, 
when  in  other  places,  he  would  have  us  to  understand  that  it  is 
a  love  to  virtue  and  the  common  good  ?     His  words  are,  '  Pure 


ZWINGLl'S  SEARCH  AFTER  TRUTH.  389 

viitiu'  desires  no  other  rewiird  for  her  hil tours  and  dangers,  than 
that  of  honour  and  of  glory.  Withdraw  from  us,  judges,  this  reward, 
anil  wliat  remains  for  us  to  toil  for  in  this  present  so  short  and 
fleeting  life  ?  Without  doubt,  the  soul,  had  she  no  presentiment 
of  futurity,  nor  anything  on  which  to  fix  her  gaze  beyond  the 
boundaries  of  the  present  life,  would  never  drudge  with  so  many 
laboui-s,  so  many  cares,  so  many  vigils,  nor  would  she  place  life 
so  often  at  stake.  But  now  we  see  a  certain  power  within  us, 
and  the  better  the  man  is,  the  stronger  is  this  power  which  spurs 
us  on,  and  encourages  us  day  and  night  by  the  attractions  of 
glory,  not  to  let  the  memory  of  our  name  perish  with  our  exist- 
ence, but  to  hand  it  down  to  latest  posterity,  «S:c.  &c.  Mark  how 
Cicero  here  discloses  to  us  the  heart  of  man.  He  tells  us  there 
dwells  in  the  mind  of  the  best,  a  power  or  faculty  that  spurs  it 
on  unweariedly  in  the  pursuit  of  glory,  and  that  directs  to  this 
object  all  its  thoughts,  schemes,  and  undertakings.  Wliat,  how- 
ever, he  calls  a  power  or  faculty,  is,  as  we  l)elievers  know,  nothing 
but  spiritual  death,  and  sin,  and  the  lamentable  condition  of 
fallen  man,  who  ever  loves  himseK,  and  seeks  his  own.  If  you 
find  among  believers,  men  who  deny  that  all  human  actions  lla^'e 
their  ground  in  glory,  or  selfislmess,  you  may  esteem  it  as  certain 
that  such  are  not  believers  at  all,  but  carnal  and  slaves  of  sin. 
For  so  long  as  we  defend  ourselves,  it  is  certain  that  the  light  of 
the  Spirit  fails  us,  which  shows  and  discovers  the  man  to  him- 
self. A  heathen  writer  must  here  indeed  instruct  us,  and  teach 
us  that  all  our  plans  are  based  in  selfishness.  In  my  opinion, 
there  is  none  untouched  by  the  desire  of  gloiy,  even  then,  when  he 
is  zealously  maintaining  we  must  despise  all  glory.  This  is  often 
obserA'able  in  Plato.  Whenever  he  introduces  Socrates  as  phil- 
o.sophising,  it  is  remarkable  he  does  this  with  such  a  ponqj  of 
language,  and  so  many  circumlocutory  speeches,  that  he  evidently 
appeai-s  most  of  all  to  have  striven  after  gloiy  there,  where  he 
rejiresents  Socrates  in  the  character  of  the  givatest  despiser  of 
glory.  I  mention  these  things,  if  possible,  to  open  the  eyes  of  those 
who  hang  on  philosophy,  that  they  may  know  what  is  in  man." 
In  this  unprejudiced  and  serious  spirit,  Zwingli  read  the  works 
of  the  (Ireek  and  Koman  authors.  Tlie  central  jioint  with  him 
w;is  ilivine  tnith,  as  revealed  in  ih<'  Word  of  Cod,  bv  flic  standartl 


390  ZWINGLl'S  SEARCH  AFTER  TRUTH. 

of  which  also  he  measured  and  estimated  the  traces  of  a  divine 
revelation  in  pagan  writings. 

But  the  reflections  of  his  active  mind  extended  themselves  over 
other  departments  of  knowledge.  General  history,  especially 
that  of  his  native  country,  was  next  to  that  of  the  Church  of 
Christ,  a  field  in  which  he  loved  to  expatiate.  Having  trained 
and  sharpened  his  natural  turn  for  history  under  such  great 
masters  as  Thucydides,  Livy,  and  Sallust,  he  was  prepared  to 
enter  with  success  the  dark  ground  of  story  and  tradition,  in 
which  historical  facts  are,  in  the  earlier  periods  of  a  nation,  for  the 
most  part  enveloped  and  obscured.  He  resolved  to  draw  his 
information  alone  from  authentic  sources,  the  course  he  had 
pursued  in  his  search  after  religious  truth;  and  directing  his 
inquiries  on  this  principle,  he  amassed  a  rich  treasure  of  correct 
historical  knowledge,  at  the  extent  of  which,  we,  at  the  present 
day,  cannot  but  feel  surprised.  Natural  philosophy  also  attracted 
his  attention.  He  was  led  to  this  study  by  the  desire  to  under- 
stand more  clearly  the  relation  of  natural  phenomena  to  God  the 
Creator  of  the  universe.  "  Wlioever,"  he  observes,  "  rises  by  his 
understanding,  from  visible  nature  to  the  contemplation  of  the 
invisible  Godhead,  does,  and  not  without  the  illumination  of  God 
himself,  what  is  worthy  of  God  and  of  himself,  and  extremely 
wholesome."  Thus  reflection  and  investigation  in  him  went  out 
from  God,  and  found  in  God  again  their  object  and  end,  as  the 
mountains  of  his  native  country  are  in  the  morning  touched 
by  the  rosy  tinge  of  God's  sun,  and  when  the  shades  of  evening 
descend  on  the  earth  still  retain  his  splendours. 


4.  ZwiNGLi's  Communion  with  God  ;  the  Lofty  Reach  and 
Unshaken  Constancy  of  his  Faith. 

Zwingli's  soul,  indeed,  found  itself  elevated  and  strengthened 
by  familiar  intercourse  and  talk  with  like-minded  friends,  as  well 
as  by  the  study  of  Holy  Scripture,  and  the  masterly  works  of 
Greece  and  Rome,  by  which  the  holy  and  great  men  who  coni- 
])osed  them  were  brought  nearer  to  him,  and,  so  to  say,  brought 
into  the  circle  of  his  friends ;  but  highest  to  him  of  all  was  spi- 


ZWINGLl'S  COMMUNION  WITH  GOD.  391 

ritual  intercourse  with  CJod  in  prayer.  "  He  strongly  recom- 
mended prayer,"  says  IjiiUinger,  "  and  he  himself  prayed  much 
daily,"  "  If  we  become,"  says  Zwingli  himself,  "  more  learned 
and  better  by  conversation  and  familiar  intercourse  with  a  learned 
and  good  man,  how  nnich  more  when  we  hold  familiar  converse 
with  Gotl  This  light  enlightens  all ;  no  one  nears  it  who  does 
not  retire  from  it  a  nobler  and  a  better  man.  Whoever,  there- 
fore, has  ac('Ustom(»d  himself  to  hold  frequent  converse  with  God, 
and  to  seek  help  from  Him,  feels  himself  ever  strengthened  and 
encouraged  after  prayer.  In  the  hour  of  danger,  he  says :  "  0 
Lord !  thus  it  has  pleased  Thee.  But  I  doubt  not  Thou  wilt  so 
order  matters  in  Thy  great  goodness,  that,  with  the  temptation. 
Thou  wilt  also  shew  a  way  of  escape.  I  know  that  Thou  wilt 
advance  Thy  glory,  justice,  and  truth,  however  the  adversaries 
may  storm  and  rage.  I  know  Thou  wilt  stretch  to  Thy  servant 
the  hand  of  help.  And  although,  in  the  meantime,  I  may  come 
into  peril  of  my  life,  and  fall,  yet  I  doubt  not  Thou  wilt,  after  my 
death,  accomplish  Thy  work,  and  ride  forth  everywhere  in  Thy 
gloiy  triumphantly."  In  regard  to  the  right  mode  of  praying,  he 
thus  expresses  himself:  "When  Christ  says,  'And  when  ye  pray, 
use  not  many  words,  as  the  heathens  do,'  He  does  not  mean  to 
deter  us  from  prayer,  but  He  means  to  instruct  us  in  prayer,  which 
does  not  consist  in  the  multitude  of  words,  but  in /e?u'ouro//at^/^. 
Pmyer  requires  only  few  words ;  but,  on  the  other  hand,  great 
devotion,  deep  feeling.  Prayer  is  the  elevation  and  ascent  of  the 
soul  to  God;  let  it  be  therefore  sober,  fervent,  pure,  and  simple, 
without  the  pomp  of  words.  Many  arrows  let  off  at  once  have  a 
slower  flight,  being  hindered  by  their  feathers;  one  sent  alone 
tlies  swifter  to  the  mark."  By  prayer,  he  felt  his  soul  become 
daily  freer  from  earthly  bonds,  daily  more  light  from  above  beam- 
ing into  his  souL  "  It  is  with  us,"  says  he,  "  as  with  those  who 
go  to  sea.  To  them  the  land  appears  of  much  greater  extent  than 
the  sea ;  but  the  farther  they  stretch  out  to  sea  the  more  they  dis- 
cover what  a  small  proportion  the  hind  bears  to  the  sea.  Then 
their  eyes  behold  many  sea-monsters,  and  they  are  tilled  with 
wonder  at  the  immeasurable  ocean  which  suiTounds  theuL  So  it 
is  with  us;  so  long  as  we  cleave  to  the  dust,  and  the  tilings  of 
earth,  i.e.,  to  our  own  understanding,  we  know  nothing  of  the 
works  and  ways  of  God,  but  when  we  direct  our  regards  from  the 


392  ZWINGLI'S  COMMUNION  WITH  GOI). 

earthly  to  the  Divme,  then  we  become  acquainted  with  what 
fills  us  with  astonishment  indeed.  But  what  is  the  sea  of  which 
I  speak  but  the  divine  providence  and  economy  of  all  things,  the 
infinite  and  inexhaustible  power  and  operation  of  God?  Come,  then, 
let  us  put  out  to  sea,  and  let  us  begin  the  contemplation  of  the 
works  of  God,  and  we  shall  discover  glorious  things.  Let  us  con  - 
sider  the  wondrous  works  of  God,  ever  exercising  our  minds  to 
the  contemplation  of  greater  and  still  greater.  Let  us  get  rid  to- 
day of  this  fault,  to-morrow  of  that,  and  so  gradually  advance  till 
we  arrive  at  the  perfect  man.  We  dare  not  stand  still,  for  we 
are  upon  our  journey,  and  indeed  we  tread  a  very  dirty  and  slip- 
pery path,  and  have  not  yet  reached  the  goal." 

With  such  a  penetrating  intellect,  consecrated  by  the  prayer 
of  faith,  Zwingli  strove  to  pierce  deeper  and  deeper  into  the 
counsel  of  God,  which  filled  him  with  the  loftiest  admiration, 
and  which  moved  him  to  an  intense  adoration  of  the  Divine 
wisdom  and  goodness.  In  the  following  passage,  he  very  happily 
and  beaiitifully  expresses  these  feelings :  "  All  that  happens,  we 
may  call  it  accidental  or  predetermined,  happens  through  the 
omnipresent  foresight  of  God,  be  it  in  reference  to  things  without 
life,  or  to  living  beings,  and  to  beings  endowed  with  reason  and 
understanding,  although  we  may  not  plainly  recognise  it,  being 
sunk  through  our  gross  corporeal  nature  in  the  deep  darkness  of 
ignorance.  But  when  it  is  given  to  one  to  contemplate  these 
events  from  a  higher  point  of  view,  O  God,  what  joy  he  has  in 
the  discovery  everywhere  of  the  wisdom  and  goodness  of  God. 
Nay,  the  contemplation  of  the  whole  universe,  all  beautiful 
though  it  be,  is  but  weariness,  in  comparison  of  the  rapture  which 
fills  his  soul  when  he  ascends  upwards  to  God,  and  adores  Him 
as  the  artificer  of  the  whole.  With  what  admiration,  for  example, 
of  the  providence  of  God,  is  not  a  pious  soul  filled,  when  it  con- 
siders the  case  of  Jeroboam,  how  he  was  ordained  of  God  to  divide 
Israel  into  two  kingdoms,  but  who  was  soon  faithless  to  Him 
who  had  raised  him,  setting  up  golden  calves  as  idols,  and  thereby 
brinoino'  ruin,  first  on  Israel,  afterwards  on  Judah.  For  it  was 
a  monstrous  act  of  impiety  to  seduce  the  people  from  the  true 
God  to  idolatry.  The  divine  counsel,  therefore,  had  been  very 
unwise,  to  set  a  man  upon  the  throne,  who,  in  the  end,  was  to  be  ^ 
ai)ostate  from  God,  if  God  had  not  beforehand  resolved  himself 


HIS  L(.)rTY  REACH  AND  CONSTANCY  OF  FAITH.  303 

as  to  what  slioiild  haiiiu'ii,  and  detcniiiiicd  to  make  use  of  the 
tivat'herv  of  Ji'i'oboani.  1  say  when  the  pious  mind  considers 
the  consequences  here,  it  is  so  far  from  cavillinj^-  with  God,  that 
it  rather  admires  and  praises  His  decrees.  Supreme  goodness 
had  determined  to  turn  itself  for  a  season  from  tlie  Jewish  peoph', 
and  on  the  other  hnud,  to  choose  idolaters.  Therefore  it  prepared 
the  event  it  would  bring  iqxni  Israel  through  Jeroboam.  For 
from  this  time  Israel  began  to  sink,  till  at  length  it  fell  under 
the  IJabylonian  and  Roman  captivities.  The  heathen  nations 
who  came  into  its  place,  triumphed,  then,  in  the  knowledge  of 
God.  Is  not  faith,  when  it  sees  this,  caught  with  a  wondrous 
joy?  Good  is  ever  evolved  from  that  which  God  operates, 
even  although  the  matter  may  have  begun  with  some  great  crime. 
Jacob  ])lains  over  his  son  Joseph  that  wild  beasts  have  torn  him, 
while  his  brothers  had  perpetrated  a  fratricidal  crime  upon  him. 
But  what  a  glad  result  crowned  the  whole?  The  father  weened 
he  would  die  of  grief ;  but  that  became  life  and  salvation  to  him- 
self and  his  children,  and  to  vast  numbers  besides,  wliich  was 
begun  in  crime  and  blood.  Nor  is  God  either  unjust  or  capricious 
when  he  visits  the  father  with  sorrow,  the  son  with  hardship. 
(Ir  who  reproaches  a  peasant  with  letting  part  of  his  wood  stand 
till  the  trees  become  tall  and  suitable  for  beams,  deals  and  laths 
to  build  a  house  therefrom,  while  he  consumes  another  part  as 
firewood  ?  Is  not  the  application  of  the  one  part  as  well  as  the 
other  ad\antageous  and  useful,  nay,  necessary^  for  the  proprietor, 
so  that  the  pail  that  is  burned  is  actually  more  useful  than  that 
out  of  wliich  the  house  is  built?  Just  as  little  can  the  misfor- 
tunes, which  befell  these  righteous  persons,  Jacol)  and  Joseph, 
establish  an  act  of  violence  or  of  cruelty  on  the  part  of  God : 
partly  because  all  things  in  a  truer  sense  belong  to  God  than  the 
wood  does  to  the  peasant,  partly  becau.se  all  His  works  take  a 
happy  result,  not  at  the  time  indeed  when  we  wish  it,  but  \\hen 
it  is  most  fitting,  which  He  alone  knows.  Herod  perjietrated  an 
inhuman  act,  when  he  ordered  the  murdering  of  the  tender 
helplt'ss  ])al)es;  and  yet  two  advantages  sprang  from  this  cruel 
deed:  one  is.  that  we  see  Christ  escaping,  through  the  guiding 
hand  of  (Jod.  the  wicked  design  against  his  life,  and  that  it  is 
vain  tf»  strive  against  God;  the  other  is,  that  an  example  is 
givi'ii    u<    how    inijioti'iit    fury,  cruelty,   and    ffar  of  losiu"  the 


39^  HIS  LOFTY  EEAUH  AND  CONSTANCY  OF  FAITH. 

kingdom,  rage  in  vain.  0 !  might  princes  oftener  take  this  to 
heart  in  our  own  days!  From  the  providence  of  God  there 
arises  predestination,  or,  which  is  the  same,  preordination  and 
election.  Election  is  the  free  resohition,  or  spontaneous  decision 
of  the  divine  will  as  to  who  shall  be  saved.  '  I  will  be  gracious 
to  whom  I  will  be  gracious ;  and  wHl  shew  mercy  on  whom  I 
will  shew  mercy,'  Exod.  xxxiii.  19,  saith  the  Lord.  Wliat  is  this 
else  but,  in  a  pure  sense  of  sovereignty,  saying :  '  I  distribute 
mercy  according  to  my  good  pleasure,  not  moved  by  the  prayers 
or  by  the  misery  of  those  who  implore  me,  but  as  a  free  grace- 
gift  of  election.  For  the  wicked  also  cry  for  help?'  This  view 
becomes  clearer  and  more  intelligible  when  we  weigh  the  words 
which  the  Lord  spake  to  Moses  to  put  courage  in  him :  '  And  I 
will  harden  Pharaoh's  heart,  and  multiply  my  signs  and  my 
wonders  in  the  land  of  Egypt.  But  Pharaoh  shall  not  hearken 
unto  you,'  Exod.  vii.  3.  From  the  case  of  Pharaoh  we  see  that 
God,  by  such  examples  of  rashness  and  obstinacy,  will  manifest 
to  the  world  His  power  as  well  as  His  justice.  For  when  He 
hardens  men  so  that  they  strive  against  Him,  there  is  not  the 
slightest  doubt  that  He  does  this  solely  to  exhibit  to  the  world  in 
them  an  example  of  His  justice.  The  reverse  follows,  when  He 
makes  Moses  a  leader  of  the  people,  and  David  a  king;  when  He 
has  mercy  on  the  thief  dying  on  the  cross ;  and  on  Peter,  who,  in 
the  hour  of  danger,  abandoned  him,  and  shamefacedly  denied 
him ;  on  them  He  took  compassion  that  He  might  shew  examples 
of  His  goodness.  Paul  manifestly  alludes  to  this,  when  he  says, 
'  Therefore  hath  he  mercy  on  whom  he  will  have  mercy,  and 
whom  he  will  he  hardeneth,'  Eom.  ix.  18.  What  else  does  he 
mean  here  but  that  election  and  rejection  are  both  acts  of  God's 
free  will?  The  merit  of  our  works  is  thus  undermined.  For 
either  election  and  free  grace  must  fall  to  the  ground,  or  our 
merits.  For  if  salvation  is  acquired  by  works,  it  is  no  longer  a 
free  gift.  But  if  it  is  a  free  gift,  it  is  no  more  a  reward  of  our 
works,  as  Paul  proves  in  the  clearest  manner,  Eom.  xi.  But  how 
comes  it  that  deliverance  from  sin,  and  that  eternal  salvation  are 
in  so  many  passages  of  Holy  Scripture,  ascribed  to  faith?  Let  us 
see  to  whom  faith,  this  free  gift  of  God,  is  given.  Faith  is  given 
to  those  who  are  chosen  and  appointed  to  everlasting  life  ;  but 
so  that  election  goes  before,  while  faith  follows  as  a  pledge  or  sign. 


HIS  LOFTY  REACH  AND  CONSTANCY  OF  FAITH.  395 

For  thus  Vinil  writes :  '  For  whom  he  did  foreknow,  he  also  did 
predestinate  ;  moreover,  whom  he  did  predestinate,  them  he  also 
called :  and  whom  he  called,  them  he  also  justified ;  and  whom 
he  justified,  them  he  also  glorified,'  Eom.  viii  29.  This  state- 
ment very  clearly  explains  our  view.  Paid  intends  to  shew  that 
the  predestination  and  choice  of  God  are  the  grounds  and  reasons 
of  our  investiture  with  eternal  gloiy.  Is  this  predestination  and 
election  resolved  upon,  then  the  man  is  called  hy  God,  not  only 
in  the  general  call,  which  consists  in  the  outward  preaching  of 
the  Word,  but  so  that  the  Spirit  opens  the  ear  of  the  elect  to  hear, 
and  leads  them  to  attend  to  that  which  God  commands  or  pro- 
mises. Those  whom  God  calls,  He  pronounces  righteous,  i.e.,  He 
maJfes  them  free  from  sin.  Can  there  thus  be  any  other  justifi- 
cation except  that  by  faith?  The  whole  doctrine  of  Christ  and 
the  apostles  goes  to  prove  there  is  no  other  acquittance  or  justi- 
fication but  that  by  faith.  They,  however,  who  have  faith  are 
heirs  of  eternal  felicity.  And  from  all  this,  we  recognise  that 
faith  is  given  to  them  who  are  chosen.  Not  as  though  faith  were 
a  work  to  which  the  forgiveness  of  sins  necessarily  attaches,  but 
because  they  who  have  faith  in  God  know  beyond  all  doubt  that 
God  is  reconciled  to  them  through  His  Son,  and  that  the  debt  of 
sin  is  cancelled.  These,  however,  are  so  elected,  that  their 
election  is  not  only  known  to  God,  but  also  to  them,  the  elect 
themselves.  Another  testimony,  to  the  effect  that  faith  is  vouch- 
safed to  the  elect  alone,  we  have  in  Acts  xiii.  48 :  '  And  as  many 
as  were  ordained  to  eternal  life  believed.'  Mark,  it  was  they 
who  were  predestined  to  eternal  life  that  believed.  It  is  thus 
manifest  that  they  who  believe  know  that  they  are  elected,  and 
that  they  who  are  elected  believe.  AMien,  then,  the  prize  of 
everlasting  life  is  ascribed  to  faith,  that  is  attributed  to  the  later 
act.  which  .serves  as  the  sealing,  which  properly  belongs  to  tlie 
earlier  as  the  means.  Faith  is  the  sign  of  that  election  by  which 
truly  we  are  saved  If  the  blossom  of  election  had  not  preceded 
it.  the  fniit  of  faith  would  never  have  shewn  itself  It  follows 
also,  on  the  other  hand,  that  tiiey  who  hear  the  ground  of  faith, 
but  who  comprehend  it  not,  are  predestinated  and  oixlained  to 
everlasting  ]iunishment.  For  whoever  believed  the  apostle's 
pivai-hing,  was  dutsen  to  eternal  life.  And  in  regard  to  tln' 
i"evei*sp  case,  Christ    liimsi-lt'  ^;i\<:   '  Mr  tliiit  brlicvcth    nr>t    fli(^ 


390  HIS  LOFTY  REACH  AND  CiONSTANCY  OF  FAITH. 

gospel,'  preached  and  heard,  for  the  words  precede  'preach  the 
gospel  to  every  creature'  is  already  damned.  Unfaith  is  thus 
as  certain  a  sign  of  damnation  as  faith  is  of  salvation.  Accord- 
ingly we  observe,  in  passing,  that  those  passages  of  Scripture  are 
to  be  cautiously  taken,  in  which  it  is  said,  believers  alone  are 
saved ;  for  this  statement  has  reference  only  to  those  who  have 
heard  and  believed.  The  same  holds  good  with  respect  to  the 
condemnation  of  unbelievers.  Eeference  is  only  made  to  those 
who  have  heard,  and  yet  have  not  believed.  Of  the  others  we 
cannot  judge,  no  man's  election  being  known  to  us.  We  cannot 
judge,  partly  because  Paul  writes:  '  If  the  Gentile  fulfil  the  law, 
he  is  thereby  a  Jew,'  shcAving  the  law  of  God  written  in  his 
heart;  partly  because  Abraham,  Isaac,  Jacob,  the  mother  of  the 
Saviour,  Peter,  Paul,  were  chosen  of  God  already,  as  children, 
nay,  before  the  creation  of  the  world,  and  when  they  had  not 
faith.  It  does  not  hold  good,  then,  in  general :  '  Whosoever  has 
not  faith  is  damned,'  but  '  Whosoever  has  heard  the  doctrine  of 
faith  proclaimed,  and  yet  continues  and  dies  in  unbelief,  him  we 
can  perhaps  count  among  the  lost'  For  many  do  not  believe 
when  they  hear;  then  only,  when  they  have  been  apprehended 
and  drawn  by  the  Spirit  like  Paul.  Wherefore  this  judg- 
ment can  only  be  pronounced  on  those  who  continue  in 
unbelief  till  death.  In  this  manner  the  two  passages 
are  reconcileable :  '  Whosoever  believes  not  is  condemned,' 
and,  '  If  the  Gentile  live  according  to  the  law,  it  becomes 
to  him  the  foreskin  of  circumcision.'  '  For  if  the  Gentiles, 
who  have  not  the  law,  do  by  nature  the  things  contained 
in  the  law,  they  who  have  not  the  law  are  a  law  to  them- 
selves.' For  there  stands  in  the  way  nothing  against  God's 
electing  from  the  Gentiles  such  as  honour,  obey,  and,  after 
death,  unite  themselves  to  Him.  For  His  power  of  election  is  free. 
If  the  choice  stood  open  to  me,  I  might  rather  choose  the  lot  of  a. 
Socrates,  or  a  Seneca,  who  not  only  recognised  one  God  over  all, 
but  also  endeavoured  to  please  Him,  by  keeping  a  pure  heart  to- 
wards Him,  to  that  of  the  Eoman  pope,  who  would  fain  gi-\'e 
himself  out  for  a  god,  or  of  any  of  the  kings  or  princes  who  pro- 
tect such  idolatry.  AVlio  is  there  who  admires  not  the  faith  of 
the  pious  Seneca,  who,  in  the  eighty-third  year  of  his  age,  could 
write  thus  to  his  friend  Lucilius:  'We  must  live  in  all  respects 


HIS  LOFTY  REACH  AND  CONSTANCY  OF  FAITH.  397 

as  if  we  were  conscious  of  living  under  the  eyes  of  some  one  who 
could  penetrate  into  the  innermost  of  our  hearts.  And  there 
is  One  who  can  do  it.  Fur  of  what  use  is  it  to  keep  things 
secret  from  man?  Nothing  is  hid  from  God.  He  is  near  our 
.'^ouls,  and  comes  between  us  when  we  are  in  the  midst  of  our  own 
tliuuiilits.'  Thus  far  Seneca.  Now,  who  inscribed  such  a  faith 
as  this  in  his  heart?  Wherever  a  man  is  anxious  to  do  that 
which  pleases  God,  in  that  man  is  religion  and  faith.  And 
Jethro  also  proves  this,  who  was  filled  to  such  a  degree  with 
heavenly  wisdom  that  he  even  rendered  aid  to  INIoses  in  his  legis- 
lation, the  man  who  spoke  immediately  with  God.  The  centurion 
Cornelius  is  a  proof  of  it  likewise,  whose  alms  and  prayers  were 
acceptable  to  (lod  even  before  the  gospel  had  come  to  him.  God 
can  immediately  infuse  faith  into  the  hearts  of  the  heathen,  which 
faith  they  give  evidence  of,  and  manifest  by  their  works,  as  I 
think,  not  without  good  reason,  was  the  case  with  Socrates, 
Seneca,  and  many  others.  Let  none  suppose  that  in  what  I  say 
my  intention  is  to  depreciate  or  derogate  from  the  glory  of  Christ, 
as  some  falsely  attribute  to  me;  on  the  contrary,  what  I  say  glori- 
fies His  name.  For  whoever  will  come  to  God  must  come  to 
Him  throiigh  Christ.  And  although  the  outward  gospel  has  not 
been  preached  to  those,  God  can  save  them  through  Him.  For 
whoever  is  saved,  is  saved  through  Christ,  i.e.,  through  the  mercy 
of  God  manifested  to  the  world  in  Christ.  For,  when  Supreme 
Wisdom  saw  that  man  would  suffer  shipwreck  through  the  fault 
ot  a  tree,  it  cast  to  him  a  piece  of  wood  (the  cross,)  to  save  him, 
and  resolved  to  pull  him  ashore,  giving  him  the  promise  that  One, 
bom  of  a  woman,  should  bruise  the  head  of  the  common  foe ;  else 
through  his  cunning  wiles  the  tran.sgressors  had  been  lost.  But 
this  had  not  been  an  upright  promise  on  the  part  of  God,  if  the 
fruit  of  this  victory  had  not  availed  Adam.  Adam,  however, 
recognised  that  this  promised  seed  woidd  not  only  be  for  salva- 
tion to  his  posterity  but  also  to  himself,  and  the  confiding  hope 
he  set  in  it  did  not  deceive  him.  Now,  Adam's  guilt  .so  affected 
his  posterity  that  only  what  is  coiTupt  conies  into  the  world ;  yet 
Christ's  righteousness  has  the  virtue  of  rendering  this  coiTuption 
noxious  to  us.  If  the  question,  however,  be  put,  Did  Christ 
restore  the  whole  human  fiunily,  or  only  the  churcli  of  believers? 
I  might  shortly  answer;  Christ  has  brought,  by  Ills  salvation,  as 


398  HIS  LOFTY  EEACH  AND  CONSTANCY  OF  FAITH. 

much  good  into  the  workl  as  Adam,  by  his  sinning,  brouglit 
evil;  or,  Adam  infected  the  whole  mass  with  original  sin,  conse- 
quently Christ  has  again  restored  the  whole  mass.  '  For  if 
through  the  offence  of  one  many  be  dead,  much  more  the  grace  of 
Gad,  and  the  gift  by  grace,  which  is  by  one  man,  Jesus  Christ, 
hath  abounded  unto  many.'  (Eom.  v.  15.)  In  short,  God's  free 
election,  and  the  law  written  in  the  hearts  of  all  men,  are  true  ; 
notwithstanding  those  who  are  elected,  and  those  who  do  the 
work  of  the  law  according  to  the  law  written  in  their  hearts,  come 
to  God  alone  through  Christ.  For  He  is  the  Son  for  whom  the 
Father  has  prepared  the  wedding-feast,  and  called  the  guests." 

Penetrated  with  such  a  conviction  of  the  grace  of  God,  and 
adoring  the  wisdom,  justice,  mercy,  and  all-sovereignty  of  the 
Highest,  our  Eeformer  looked  upon  himself  as  an  instrument  in 
the  hand  of  Providence,  selected  for  His  great  work.  "  "NVlioever," 
says  he,  "  is  filled  with  the  Spirit  of  God,  is  ever  on  the  alert  to 
do  something  for  the  benefit  of  his  neighbour,  is  unwearied  in 
every  good  work,  and  rather  is  fearful  that  he  may  do  less  than 
he  ought.  God's  Spirit  is  always  active  in  the  holy;  they  are 
like  a  windmill  on  the  top  of  a  hill  put  in  motion  by  the  pres- 
sure of  the  wind.  Let  us  bear  in  mind  that  we  are  instruments 
of  the  divine  purposes,  which  God  employs  for  the  execution  of 
His  will.  We  must  therefore  be  active  and  fervent  in  the  work, 
not  sleepy  and  slothful,  we  must  not  withdraw  from  the  divine 
work,  nor  take  holiday,  but  be  ever  on  the  alert,  and  ready  to 
bear  a  hand  to  the  work.  A  right  recognition  of  God's  provi- 
dence is  for  the  holy  and  God-fearing  one  of  the  best  remedies 
against  the  dangers  which  threaten  them  from  prosperity  and 
adversity.  Are  this  world's  goods  our  portion,  beauty,  health, 
children,  posts  of  honour?  and  do  we  recognise  these  as  gifts  of 
Providence?  Wliat  a  comfort,  and  what  zeal  in  God's  service 
does  this  feeling  engender  in  our  souls !  Comfort  and  refresh- 
ment from  seeing  that  what  concerns  even  the  body  is  the  gift  of 
God,  and  that  thus  we  may  enjoy  it;  zeal  and  diligence  to  reci- 
procate, in  no  niggardly  spirit,  what  is  freely  given.  From  the  one 
feeling  gratitude  arises,  from  the  other  watchfulness  over  one's 
self,  and  a  holy  walk.  On  the  other  hand,  are  we  afflicted  by 
want,  shame,  or  sorrow,  abandonment  of  friends,  contempt,  want  of 
success,  and  do  we  trace  these  to  Providence?  how  much  are  we 


HIS  LOFTY  REACH  AND  CONSTANCY  OF  FAITH.  399 

comforted  and  reassured  in  the  greatest  misfortunes?  With  what 
greatness  of  soul  can  such  an  one  raise  himself  above  the  world, 
and  esteem  at  a  low  price  all  as  it  lies  beneath  him.  For  while 
he  says :  '  This  bitter  cup  is  handed  to  me  by  Providence,  1  must 
drink  it,  and  with  unshaken  faith  overcome  by  patience ;  thou 
art  God's  instniment,  He  will  use  thee  up  by  using  thee,  not  by 
leaving  thee  idle.  0  happy  one  whom  He  calls  to  His  work ;' 
while  he  so  speaks  to  himself,  he  is  preparing  to  give  up  his 
life,  perceiving  the  whole  world  can  promise  him  nothing  but 
all  sorts  of  calamities  and  troubles.  Will  not  such  a  saint  resign 
willingly  the  whole  world  if  it  were  in  his  hands?  For  who 
would  not  give  up  an  estate  that  yielded  him  nothing  but  fruit- 
less pains?  And  to  this  very  point  the  believer's  recognition  of 
Providence  leads.  For,  seeing  that  fortune's  so-called  goods  are 
mutable  and  fleeting,  so  that  they  have  nowhere  a  firm  footing, 
shall  we  not  (if  we  act  as  reasonable  creatures)  give  all  diligence 
to  render  our  own  footing  at  least  firm,  and  that  we  do  not  allow 
ourselves  to  be  cast  hither  and  thither  with  them,  just  as  a  ship, 
to  escai)e  the  storm,  steers  behind  some  headland,  M'here  it  casts 
anchor?  But  what  else  can  make  us  strong  against  the  waves 
of  fate  but  the  contemplation  of  Providence.  This  it  is  that 
whispers  to  the  manly  soul :  '  Do  not  fancy  that  this  happens  by 
chance;  it  is  done  at  my  command;  it  must  be  so;  it  cannot  but 
be  so.  If  you  bear  it  nobly  you  celebrate  a  glorious  triumph, 
not  by  those  who  hail  the  vicious  knave  who  but  peii^ctrates 
some  bloody  deed,  but  by  that  assembly  of  the  blessed,  in  which 
of  all  the  righteous,  the  heroic,  the  wise,  the  learned,  the  holy, 
who  have  lived  since  the  foundation  of  the  world,  none  fails; 
where  rashness  no  more  passes  for  courage,  hypocrisy  for  piety, 
readiness  of  tongue  for  learning,  nor  glibeness  of  tongue  for  wis- 
dom. There  a  Judge  decides  whom  none  can  deceive,  and  who 
also  himself  deceives  none.'  If,  however,  out  of  indolence  or 
despair,  you  flee  from  toil  and  exertion,  eternal  disgrace  will  be 
your  portion ;  for  the  Captain  to  whom  you  have  been  faithles.s 
cannot  be  deceived,  for  His  eye  pierces  into  the  most  secret 
recesses  of  the  human  heart.  Your  fault,  then,  cannot  be  denied 
or  concealed;  for  He  sees  WTitten  on  our  foreheads  what  we  have 
done,  and  sees  also  the  sins  of  othei-s.  Although  to  men  you  may 
give  your  sin  another  n.ame,  you  cannot  to  God." 


400  HIS  LOFTY  EEACH  AND  CONSTANCY  OF  FAITH. 

Against  the  dangers,  too,  which  threatened  him  in  the  preach- 
ing of  the  gospel,  Zwingli  derived,  from  the  assurance  that  he 
was  an  instrument  in  the  hands  of  Providence,  the  most  exalted 
courage.  "  Would  you  think  to  deter  me,"  he  intrepidly 
exclaims,  "from  the  proclamation  and  advocacy  of  truth,  by 
telling  me  that  all  who  ever  undertook  it  have  lost  their  lives  by 
it;  verily,  by  this  argument  you  make  little  impression  upon 
me.  For  I  am  not  ashamed  of  Christ  that  He  may  not  be 
ashamed  of  me  before  His  Father  and  the  holy  angels.  Nor  did 
He  only  die  for  the  truth,  but  He  wlio  was  the  truth  itself  died. 
AVliy  shall  I  hold  up  to  you  the  apostles,  since  countless  numbers 
of  Christians,  even  of  philosophers  and  Pagans  had  courage  to 
die  in  the  cause  of  the  truth?  The  doctrine  they  taught,  and  for 
which  they  died,  did  not  thereby  cease  to  be  true ;  but  this  is 
the  last  resource  of  the  enemy,  when  he  cannot  bear  the  truth 
nor  overcome  it ;  he  arms  himself  to  violence,  sharpens  the  sword, 
throws  all  into  uproar.  'Tis  long  since  I  have  learned  that  a 
saint  is  not  to  be  terrified  thereby,  and  that  blessed  is  he  wdio  is 
evil  spoken  of  in  this  world.  For  the  more  we  suffer  shame  for 
the  name  of  Christ  here,  the  greater  will  be  our  glory  hereafter. 
I  pray  the  Lord  that  He  may  strengthen  me,  for  few  w^ere  those 
who  endured  to  the  end." 

Tills  lofty  courage  both  to  do  and  to  suffer,  sprang  up  in  the 
Eeformer's  heart  from  his  familiar  intercourse  with  God  in 
prayer,  and  from  his  believing  contemplation  of  the  course  of 
God's  providence,  and  His  fatherly  guidance  of  those  who  put 
their  trust  in  Him.  Let  us  see  how  this  faith  manifested  itself, 
and  inspired  him  in  the  last  conflicts  he  had  to  wage  here  below 
in  the  service  of  his  Master. 


\  I  XT  11    SECT  [OX. 


ZWINGLI'S  LAST  LABOURS:   HE  DIP^S  THE  DEATH   OF  THE 
CHRISTIAN   HERO  AT  CAPPEL,   11th   OCTOBER   15;J1. 


I  Imve  t'oiiiiht  a  (H)O(l  tipht,  I  have  finished  my  course,  I  have  kept  the  faith : 
Henceforth  there  is  laid  uj)  for  nie  a  crown  of  righteousness,  which  the 
Lord,  the  righteous  Judge,  shall  give  me  at  that  day:  and  not  to  me  only, 
hilt  nntci  nil  them  also  that  love  his  appearing." — 2  Tim.  iv.  7,  8. 


1 .  Christian  Civil  Eights. 

W'k  liave  already  seen  what  eflbrts  were  made  by  the  papal  party 
t(i  su])press  the  Refonnation  in  Switzerland,  and  how  Falier  and 
the  P()p(>'s  Legate  .succeeded  with  thi.s  object  in  drawing  into 
closer  alliance  the  mountain  cantons,  who  adhered  to  the  old 
faith,  with  Swit/crlamr.'^  hereditary  enemy — the  Au.strian  Imperial 
rowi'r.  Zuricli  had  for  a  long  time  to  tru.st  alone  to  God's  help, 
and  her  own  means,  to  meet  this  threatening  combination  of  her 
foes,  ami  its  hostile  movements,  but  she  was  steeled  and  elevated 
by  the  consciou.sness  that  she  had  a  just  and  holy  cause  to 
defend ;  for  Zwingli's  "  confidence  was  alone  set  on  God,  and  with 
joy;  wherefore  he  exhorted  the  whole  town  of  Zurich  that  they 
.should  .set  their  cf»nfidence  in  God"  But  an  opportunity  aro.se 
of  uniting  with  reformed  towns  and  States,  who  entertained  like 
sentiments  to  tlieir  own,  and  who  sighed  under  the  like  oppres- 
sion. It  was  then  that  Zurich  proposed,  under  the  influence  of 
the  IJefonner,  the  formatit>n  of  an  alliance  to  defend  their  civil 
jirivileges,  especially  as  this  was  open  to  them  without  compro- 
mising the  obligations  they  had  come  under  to  the  Confederacy.* 

•  "According  to  the  ancient  treaties,  the  five  jdaces,  (Ur)',  Schwyz,  Unter- 
wnhlen.  Zug,  and  Lucerne,)  were  jtrecluded  from  entering  into  any  alliances 
with  other  .-itates,  without  the  general  consent  of  all  the  Confe<lcrates.  The 
tliree  original  states,  in<lee<l.  (Try,  Schwyz,  and  Unterwalden,)  were  not  per- 
mitted even  to  deliberate  upon  the  matter  in  their  cantonal  a.s.senddies;  while 
Zurich  and  Berne  had  reserved  to  theni.selves  such  n  liberty  when  they  joined 
the  Confcdcraov." — Hottin<;kr. 


402  CHRISTIAN  CIVIL  EIGHTS. 

"  It  is  well-pleasing  to  God,"  Zwingli  writes  upon  this  subject, 
"  that  those  who  have  one  mind  should  combine  together  to  carry- 
on  one  work  and  one  contest  of  God,  all  in  the  Lord,  in  unity  and 
fidelity.  Cannot  the  good  unite  to  save  the  sheep  from  the  jaws 
of  the  wolf?  Are  they  not  to  raise  their  voice  against  the 
M'olves,  and  to  pull  away  the  prey?  ^Vlly  should  it  be  denied  to 
the  saints  to  come  together  in  an  honourable  manner,  in  order  to 
deliberate  upon  religion,  God's  glory,  the  common  weal,  and  the 
cause  of  truth  and  righteousness?  Is  it  to  be  permitted  to  the 
wicked  only  to  conspire,  and  this  for  the  overthrow  of  truth  and 
justice?  The  Word  of  God  cannot,  indeed,  be  upheld  by  human 
power,  but  alone  by  the  power  of  God;  notwithstanding,  God 
uses  man  as  an  instrument  and  a  vessel,  to  grant  the  aids  of  His 
grace  to  other  men.  Now  if  God  favours  the  formation  of  a 
Christian  union,  it  is  plain  that  He  will  employ  it  to  a  good  end." 
Guided  by  these  principles,  Zurich  entered  into  a  union  with  the 
neighbouring  Imperial  town  of  Constance.  There  the  Eeforma- 
tion  had  gained  such  ground,  through  the  labours  of  Zwingli's 
evangelical  friends,  Ambrosius  Blaarer,  John  Zwick,  John 
Wanner,  and  others,  that  the  bishop  and  the  majority  of  the 
canons  abandoned  the  town,  and  transferred  themselves  to 
Ueberlingen  and  Moersburg.  The  Emperor  threatened  the  town. 
The  Austrian  Vicegerent  in  the  Vorarlbergian  lands,  caused  his 
horse  to  ride  up  to  its  very  gates.  Constance,  on  this  emergency, 
applied  to  Zurich  with  the  offer  of  a  mutual  defensive  alliance. 
After  the  negotiations  had  been  secretly  carried  on  for  a  con- 
siderable length  of  tune,  the  alliance  was  finally  concluded  on 
the  25th  December  1527,*  and  was  called,  "  The  Christian 
Burgher-Eights."     Its  purport  runs  thus  : 

"  We,  the  Burgomaster,  Little  and  Great  Councils,  as  well  as  the 
citizens  and  whole  community  of  the  towns  of  Zurich  and  Con- 
stance, make  known:  The  course  of  events  in  these  days  having 
rapidly  assumed  a  very  threatening  aspect,  many  unfair  attacks 
having  been  made,  and  unrighteous  things  done,  from  which  it 
appeareth  that  the  ruin  of  confederate  and  civil  unity,  and 
detriment  to  the  well-being  and  peace  of  our  native  country,  will, 
if  the  Almighty  in  His  grace  prevent  not,  speedily  follow;  we 

*  The  deputies  of  "  The  Five  Places"  had  already  met  at  Insbnick  as  early  as 
the  22d  July  1527,  to  negotiate  a  closer  union  v.ith  Austria. 


(.'IIUISTIAN  CIVIL  KMCHTS.  408 

have,  with  tlie  grace  of  (m»(,1,  and  in  the  nanit-  of  .It-su.s  Christ, 
tlie  eternal  Son  of  (Joil,  our  iiedeeiiier.  aceei)ted  and  acknow- 
h'dged  one  another,  with  all  ours,  as  taithful  allies.  And  since 
faith  and  the  soul's  salvation  is  not  in  the  compulsion  or  power 
of  anv  one,  but  is  a  free  and  undeserved  grace  and  gift  of  God, 
we  shall  both  of  us,  the  parties  to  this  alliance,  each  especially 
in  their  separate  jurisdictions,  so  act  in  matters  of  faith  and  the 
soul's  salvation,  a.s  to  have  confidence  before  God,  and  be  able  to 
give  answer  according  to  Holy  Scripture  ;  nor  shall  one  party 
disturb  or  attack  the  other  on  this  account,  nor  render  assistance 
or  advice  to  any,  whoever  they  be,  who  shall  so  act,  nor  allow 
them  so  to  do.  If,  however,  violence  be  offered  to  us,  be  it  to  the 
one  or  the  other  party,  by  reason  of  faith  and  the  evangelical 
doctrine,  by  any  whosoever  it  be,  we  shall,  on  both  sides,  and 
rach  for  tlR'niselves,  and  at  their  own  costs,  defend  and  protect 
each  other,  with  our  lives  and  chattels.  Each  party  have  in  this 
'  Burger-Eight'  reserved  the  duties  they  owe,  and  we  of  Zurich 
in  particular,  the  duties  we  OM'e  to  '  The  Bund,'  by  which  we 
are  connected  and  devoted  to  our  dear  Confederates  ;  as  also  all 
agreements,  stipulations  or  treaties  which  may  have  been  closed 
with  any  before  this  letter.  In  other  respects,  this  Burgher- 
Kight  .shall  extend  and  be  held  against  every  one,  to  the  exception 
of  none,  without  fraud  or  equivocation." 

This  alliance,  in  defence  of  the  rights  of  con.science  and  the 
free  preaching  of  the  gospel,  marks  the  commencement  of  a  new 
and  higher  conception  of  the  position  and  duties  of  the  Christian 
state.  The  juridical  state  guaranteed  the  security  of  person  and 
property  against  ca])ricious  violence  ;  the  meditieval  state  pro- 
tected the  Church  of  the  time,  and  her  peculiar  institutions,  with 
the  iron  hand  of  power,  and  persecuted  with  fire  and  sword  all 
who,  under  the  impulse  of  faith,  and  guided  by  a  Itetter  know- 
ledge, dared  to  ovei-step  the  fixed  limits  .she  established;  but 
freedom  of  conscience,  the  free  preaching  of  the  "Word  of  God,  the 
<  "hristian  state,  such  as  Zwingli  comprehended  and  regardtMl  her 
to  be,  alone  knows. 

After,  in  the  sequel,  Berne  (June  l.)28),  St.  Gall  (November 
1528),  Biel  (January  1529),  Muehlhausen  (Febniary),  Basle 
(March),  and  Sehafriiausen  (September  of  the  same  year),  had 
joined  "Tlie  Christian  Burgher-Bight,"  upon  the  stune  coudition.s 


U)i  CHRISTIAN  CIVIL  RIGHTS. 

and  obligations,  the  Eeformer  deemed  it  prudent  to  obtain  new 
allies,  even  beyond  the  narrow  bounds  of  his  native  country,  for 
he  foresaw  with  a  clear  glance  the  imminence  of  the  danger 
which  threatened  the  Eeformed  cause,  from  the  growing  union 
between  the  Pope,  on  the  one  hand,  and  the  Emperor,  with  the 
papally  disposed  princes  and  states,  on  the  other.  In  this  respect, 
his  journey  to  Marburg  had  been  of  signal  importance.  In 
Strasburg,  he  obtained  better  information  with  regard  to  the 
Emperor's  designs,  especially  from  the  Town-sheriff,  James 
Sturm.  This  far-seeing  statesman,  who  was  faithfully  devoted 
to  the  Eeformed  cause,  had  connections  with  many  respectable 
and  influential  men  in  Germany  and  France,  through  which  he 
came  into  possession  of  many  important  documents,  disclosing 
the  Emperor's  plans  against  the  Eeformers.  Zwingli  and  Ulrich 
Funk  sent  copies  of  these  deeds  to  the  secret  Council  of  Zurich, 
with  the  observation :  "  These  are  from  the  right  workshop.^'  The 
contents  of  these  are  probably  contained  in  the  following  com- 
munications of  the  Eeformer,  which  he  made  to  statesmen  who 
had  his  confidence:  "  The  Emperor  stirs  up  friend  against  friend, 
and  enemy  against  enemy,  in  order  to  force  himself  betwixt  them 
as  mediator,  and  then  he  decides  with  a  partiality  which  always 
leads  him  to  consult  the  interests  of  the  papacy  and  his  own 
power.  To  kindle  a  war  in  Germany,  he  directs  the  Castellan  of 
Musso*  against  the  Graubundians,  the  Bishop  of  Constance 
against  the  town  of  Constance,  the  Bishop  of  Strasburg  against 
the  inhabitants  of  Strasburg,  the  Duke  of  Savoy  against  the 
Bernese,  the  Five  Places  against  Zurich,  the  Abbot  of  St.  Gall 
against  the  town,  Duke  George  of  Saxony  against  Duke  John, 
to  deprive  the  latter  of  his  Electoral  dignity,  the  Bishops  on  the 
Ehine  against  the  Landgrave  of  Hessen.  Thus  he  will  every^- 
where  instigate  to  hostility  against  the  Eeformed  towns  as  much 
as  he  can.  Then,  ^dien  he  has  thrown  the  torch  of  war  and 
tumult   in    all    directions,  he  will  bring  a  Spanish   army  into 

*  James  A'on  Medizis,  a  fool-hardy  adventurer,  had  got  pos.session  of  the 
fortified  castle  of  Musso,  at  the  entrance  of  the  Veltlin,  which  then  belonged  to 
the  Union,  and  from  thence  threatened  and  harassed  the  inhabitants  of  Grau- 
bund,  the  majority  of  whom  had  declared  for  the  Eeformation.  That  his  deeds 
of  lawless  violence  were  perpetrated  with  the  concurrence  of  the  Emperor,  was 
snflficientlv  proved  by  his  receiving  from  him  the  title  of  a  Margrave,  and  nine 
liiindrcd  Si>;inisli  tron]is  being  sent  to  liim,  to  be  taken  into  pay. 


CHRISTIAN  CIVIL  KKiHTS.  40') 

(u'l'iiiain ,  and  lu'  will  licludl  tlu'  one  party  with  lair  liul  I'alse 
worils,  and  make  war  on  the  other  party,  till  he  has  reduced  all 
under  his  yoke."  In  INIarburg  the  question  of  the  Eefornied 
defensive  alliance  was  all  the  more  seriously  discussed  with  the 
Landgrave,  the  more  plainly  the  danger  came  to  be  recognised 
through  the  reciprocal  comnninicatious  made,  which  threatened 
the  Reformers  on  the  side  of  the  Emperor  and  his  allies.  The 
Landgrave  had  already  endeavoured  to  bring  about  a  similar 
union  between, the  lieibrmed  princes  and  towns  of  Germany,  the 
failure  of  which,  on  the  obstinate  prejudices  of  Luther,  who 
refused  to  co-operate  with  the  Sacramentisers,*  he  witnessed  with 
deep  disapp(jiiitment.  With  all  the  greater  joy,  Philip  hailed 
the  new  lieibrmed  Defensive  Alliance,  which,  emanating  from 
Zurich,  gave  ]uomise  of  embracing  the  free  Reformed  towns  of 
Switzerland,  South  Germany,  and  of  the  Ehine.  He  himself 
wished  to  join  the  alliance,  along  with  Duke  Ulrich  of  Wirtem- 
berg.  In  the  secret  deliberations  between  the  two  princes  and 
the  deputies  of  Zurich,  Basle,  and  Strasburg,  in  reference  to  this 
matter,  it  was  agi-eed  that  the  Landgrave  should  endeavour  to 
gain  for  the  alliance  the  Protestant  German  princes  and 
the   North  Gernuin  sea   towns,  while    Zwingli    was    to  employ 

*  Alter  the  secoinl  Diet  of  Speyer,  a  Conference  of  the  Evan}j;elieal  party,  at 
the  in.^tipition  of  the  Landjirave,  was  held  at  Kotach  (Cobnrj?.)  to  take  steps 
towards  tlie  formation  of  a  I'rotestant  Defensive  Alliance.  Luther  frustrated 
the  attenii)t  liy  liis  scruples,  to  which  he  gave  loud  exjircssion  on  this  occasion. 
"Such  an  alliance,"  said  he,  "must,  without  doubt,  base  itself  on  the  conscience 
:\nd  faith  of  those  who  unite,  and  an  indispensable  condition  of  it  must  be  unity 
of  faith.  Now  faith  is  with  the  other  party  vacillating  and  uncertain,  and  it  is 
to  be  feared  that  in  l)ut  few  it  exists  at  all.  Secondly,  It  is  dangerous  by  reason 
of  the  Lan<lgrave,  who  is  a  restless  man.  Thirdly,  It  is  suspicion.*  and  vexations. 
For  among  such  numbers  it  cannot  be  doubted  that  help  will  be  more  looke<l 
ft)r  from  an  arm  of  Hesh  than  from  God.  Fourthly,  It  is  unchristian  on  account 
of  the  heresy  riyainst  the  Sucrament ;  for  since  they  cannot  have  their  alliance,  we 
mu.st  help  to  defend  and  strengthen  such  hcre.xy,  and  when  they  arc  defended, 
they  will  be  worse  than  ever.  For  as  they  will  not  better  themselves  in  this 
thing,  there  is  no  hope  that  they  will  remain  firm  and  true  in  other  matters. 
Let  one  note  here  the  example  in  Joshua  vii.,  where,  for  a  single  Achan,  tlie 
whole  peo]>le  of  God  were  made  to  sufler  calamity  until  the  sin  was  punished. 
It  may  l)e  said  the  towns  arc  one  with  us  in  all  respects,  except  this  single 
|)oint;  but.  arc  we  i»y  reason  of  unity  in  the  others  to  leave  this  out  of  our 
regard?  Answer:  The  one  is  of  too  great  imjmrtance,  for  all  the  others  are 
rendered  impure  by  this  one;  he  is  not  less  unchristian.  bp<'ause,  like  ,\rius.  and 
inanv  more,  bo  clonics  one  article  of  the  faith." 


A'iW)  CHRISTIAN  CIVIL  RIGHTS. 

his  iuHueiice  to  the  same  end  with  the  South  German 
Keformed  towns,  where  the  gospel  was  preached  by  his  friends. 
Some  hope  was  entertained  of  Venice*  and  France  becom- 
ing parties  to  the  Alliance,  both  being  hostilely  disposed  to 
the  Emperor,  and  in  both  countries  decided  symptoms  of  evan- 
gelical life  having  shewn  themselves.  According  to  the  idea 
which  was  specially  present  to  the  Landgrave  and  the  Swiss 
Reformer,  this  Protestant  Alliance  was  to  extend  from  the  Adri- 
atic to  the  German  Ocean,  and  the  intention  was  thus  to  set  up 
in  central  Europe  a  Protestant  power,  to  frustrate  the  dangerous 
schemes  of  the  Hispano- Austrian  Imperial  House,  and  its  allies. 
Nay,  if  the  Emperor  should  design  to  fulfil  the  promise  he 
solemnly  made  to  the  Papal  ambassador  at  Barcelona,  by  attempt- 
ing the  suppression  of  the  free  preaching  of  the  gospel  in  Ger- 
many, then,  in  the  view  of  Zwingli  and  the  Landgrave,  the  time 
would  have  arrived  when  the  princes  of  the  empire,  according  to 
right  and  their  duties,  ought  to  divest  the  Emperor  of  his  Impe- 
rial dignity,  who  had  thus  set  himself  up  against  the  command 
of  God  like  Saul,  and  thus  proclaimed  himself  the  rejected  of 
God,  and  remove  him  as  head  of  the  empire.  "  So  great,"  wrote 
Zwingli  afterwards  to  the  Town-sheriff  Sturm,  "  is  the  perversity 
and  wickedness  of  the  Emperor,  that,  in  my  opinion,  the  world 
should  unite  to  rid  itself  in  any  way  of  such  a  burden."  He 
wrote  to  the  Emperor  himself  with  all  frankness  of  the  opportu- 
nity given  by  God  for  throwing  off  the  yoke  of  a  tyrannical 
government,  and  which  should  not  be  allowed  to  pass  by  with- 
out being  made  use  of  In  the  event  of  the  electors  having  the 
courage  to  take  up  arms  in  defence  of  evangelical  freedom,  and 
to  depose  the  Emperor,  the  leaders  of  the  Alliance  "f*  selected  the 
German  prince  who  outshone  all  others  in  greatness  of  soul,  in 
courage  of  faith   and   resolution,    "  Philip  the    Magnanimous," 

*  We  have  already  seen  how  matters  stood  in  France.  So  remarkable  an 
evangelical  movement  manifested  itself  in  Venice,  where  the  Government  pro- 
claimed its  independence  of  the  Pope,  that  Lnther  heard  of  it.  He  wrote,  7th 
March  1528,  to  Gabriel  Zwilling:  "  Your  accounts  of  Venice,  that  it  has  received 
God's  Word,  tilled  me  with  joy.  To  God  be  the  praise  and  glory."  Zwingli 
was  very  exactly  informed  upon  the  state  of  Italy,  he  might,  therefore,  on  good 
grounds,  entertain  hopes  of  gaining  over  Venice  to  the  alliance. 

t  To  the  leaders  of  the  league,  besides  the  Landgi'ave  and  Zwingli,  there  be- 
longed Duke  Ulrich  of  Wirtembevg,  and  James  Sturm,  Town-sheriii'of  Strasburg. 


CHRISTIAN  CIVIL  RIGHTS.  407 

Zwingli's  friend,  as  future  Emperor.  "  CJraeious  dear  Sir,"  the 
Keformer  wrote  to  liis  princely  friend  in  reference  to  this  plan, 
"  my  \vriting  to  your  Grace  thus  freely  and  childishly  comes  from 
my  confidence  in  (Jod  that  He  hath  selected  you  for  great  things, 
M'hich  I  dare  not  utter;"  to  which  the  Landgrave  answered:  "Dear 
jMr  Huldreich,  I  hope  through  the  Providence  of  God  a  feather 
will  fall  from  Pharaoh  *  and  that  he  will  meet  with  what  he  little 
expects ;  for  all  things  are  in  the  way  of  improvement.  God  is 
wonderful.  He  gives  me  peace,  and  often  where  I  had  given  up 
all  hope.  The  time  brings  roses.  Let  this  matter  touching  Pha- 
raoh remain  a  secret  with  you  till  the  time  arrives." 

According  to  the  agi'eement  made  at  Marbui'g,  Zwmgli  zeal- 
ously exerteil  himself  with  his  Protestant  friends  in  the  South 
(ierman  free  towns  to  promote  the  objects  of  the  league.  Like  a 
tluuider-cloud  fraught  with  ruin  the  Emperor  neared  Germany,  to 
hold  at  Augsburg  the  long-announced  Diet.  The  Kcformer's  zeal 
rose  M'ith  the  a])proaeh  of  danger  to  turn  aside  harm  from  the 
Protestant  Church.  "  Base  cowards  alone,"  he  wrote  to  Coun- 
cillor Conrad  Zwick  of  Constance,  "can  idly  look  on  without 
straining  every  nerve  to  put  in  arms  a  power  that  shall  make  the 
Emperor  sensible  that  he  labours  in  vain  to  re-establish  Pome's 
supremacy,  to  destroy  the  pnvileges  of  the  free  towns,  and  to 
coerce  us  in  Helvetia.  Awake  Lindau,  awake  its  neighbours, 
and  be  at  length  meiL  He  is  a  fool  who  trusts  to  the  friendship 
of  tyrants.  Even  Demosthenes  teaches  us  that  nothing  is  so 
hateful  to  them  as  the  freedom  of  towns.  The  Emperor  offers 
witli  the  one  hand  bread,  while  in  the  other  he  conceals  a  stone." 
Afterwards  he  A\Tote  to  the  same  friend,  and  to  Burgomaster 
Blaarer  in  Constance:  "Only  be  firm  and  undismayed,  and  do 
not  be  afraid  of  the  counsels  of  the  Emperor.  The  knife  must  one 
day  come  to  the  gi'inding-stone." 

Zwingli's  friend,  Ralph  Collin,  was  despatched  as  secret  ambas- 
sador to  Zurich,  on  11  th  I  )ecendx'r  1820,  to  form  relations  lietween 
the  towns  of  "  the  Cluistian  Burgher-right,"  and  the  free  state  of 

•  Pharaoh  was  the  name  for  the  Emperor,  in  the  correspondence  between  the 
Lanclfrravc  and  Zwin^li.  Ever  since  the  Marliurji  Disputation  these  two  had 
kept  up  an  uninterrupted  correspondence,  partly  carried  on  in  ciphers,  which 
were  often  changed  fur  the  better  preservation  of  the  secret;  various  keys  nie 
therefore  necessary  to  decipher  the  correspondence. 


408  CHRISTIAN  CIVIL  RIGHTS. 

Venice.  He  appeared  before  the  Venetian  Senate,  and  said :  "It  is 
not  unknown  to  the  august  senate  of  the  Free  State,  long  united  in 
friendship  with  the  Confederacy,  what  an  eye-sore  the  two  republics 
have  been,  the  gi^eat  bulwarks  of  European  freedom,  to  the  arbi- 
trary potentates,  whose  only  thought  has  been  their  suppression.  At 
the  present  moment  especially,  the  Emperor  begins  anew  to  dis- 
cover his  dangerous  designs,  and  never  before  has  a  union  been 
so  necessary  as  now  between  the  States,  threatened,  in  the  first 
instance,  by  that  all-devouring  universal  monarchy,  after  which 
the  Emperor  is  striving.  To  express  their  wishes  for  such  a  union, 
to  hear  opinions  upon  it,  to  pave  the  way  for  negotiations,  his 
lords  of  Zurich  had  sent  him  a  young  man,  indeed,  and  of  no 
influence,  without  state  or  retinue,  (that  the  Emperor  and  his 
friends  might  know  nothing  of  it,)  yet  with  written  credentials." 
After  the  Doge  had  informed  himself  as  to  the  extent  and  the 
objects  of  this  defensive  league,  of  which  Collin  spoke  as  "  the 
Christian  Burgher-Eight,"  and  after  requesting  some  farther  light 
upon  it,  he  gave  the  assurance  in  general  terms  of  the  good-feel- 
ing entertained  by  the  Free  State  towards  Zurich,  and  the  towns 
of  "  the  Christian  Burgher-Eight ; "  at  the  same  time,  however,  he 
divulged  the  fact,  that  Venice  had  just  concluded  a  treaty  of  peace 
with  the  Emperor.  Outside  of  the  Town -hall  it  was  observed  to 
the  ambassador  that  an  earlier  mission  would  have  had-  better 
success.  Even  yet,  it  was  said,  Venice,  in  the  event  of  a  war 
between  the  Emperor  and  the  Burgher-towns,*  will  render  them 
as  much  assistance  as  they  can.  Zwingli  mentioned  this  to  the 
Landgrave,  and  the  Duke  Ulricli  of  Wirtemberg,  on  which  the 
latter  entreated  him  to  use  every  means  in  his  power  to  arrange 
the  matter,  and  above  all,  to  maintain  a  good  understanding  with 
the  Venetians;  for  they  might  become  a  strong  drag-chain -f*  on 
the  Emperor,  and  in  this  way  they  might  attain  the  object  which, 
with  greater  policy,  they  had  not  yet  reached.     "  The  time  and 

*  The  Chancellor  of  the  Republic  was  commissioned  hy  the  Doge  and  Council 
to  say  to  Collin,  "in  the  lirst  instance,"  that  Venice  would  assist  the  members 
of  "the  Christian  Burgher-Right"  against  the  Emperor  in  every  danger  and 
emergency,  with  men,  provisions,  and  money. 

t  A  German  Captain  had  proposed  to  occupy  the  Tyrol  with  eight  thousand 
Germans,  and  in  this  manner  to  close  up  the  Emperor's  route  from  Italy  into 
Germany.  Graubund  was  to  send  men,  Venice  artillery,  horse,  and  money,  to 
effect  this  enterprise. 


CHRISTIAN  CIVIL  KKJHTS.  409 

opportunity  are  present,"  said  he,  "  and  the  luonieiit  must  not  be 
let  slip.  Nor  is  the  mad  dog  (the  Em})eror),  idle,  but  plays  one 
trick  after  the  other. " 

About  the  same  time  that  these  negotiations  were  entered  into 
with  Venice,  the  King  of  France  intimated  a  wish,  through  his 
ambassadors  in  Switzerland,  to  hear  Zwingli's  views  as  to  how  a 
blow  might  be  best  dealt  to  the  power  of  the  Emperor;  at  the 
same  time  he  signified  his  desire  to  join  as  an  ally  "  the  Christian 
Burgher-ltight."  The  Reformer  would  please  state  the  conditions 
under  which  this  might  be  accomplished.  We  have  already  seen 
with  what  zeal  Zwingli  laboured  at  an  earlier  period  to  foster  the 
evangelical  movement  which  manifested  itself  in  France,  and  we 
have  seen  that,  chieHy  with  the  hope  of  winning  over  the  King 
to  the  cause  of  the  gospel,  he  had  dedicated  to  him  his  principal 
work,  "  The  Commentary  of  the  True  and  False  Religion."  The 
second  French  ambassador,  also  in  Switzerland,  Laml)ert  Maigret, 
was  devoted  to  the  Protestant  doctrine,  and  on  terms  of  friend- 
ship with  Zwingli.  In  such  circumstances,  it  might  have  been 
expected  that  the  Reformer  would  have  hastened  to  accede  to  the 
wi.sh  of  the  King,  as  he  had  good  grounds  to  hope  that  a  closer 
connection  with  the  towns  of  "  the  Christian  Burgher-Riiiht," 
together  with  the  animosity  against  the  Emperor,  might  induce 
Francis  I.  to  decide  in  favour  of  the  gospel,  a  result  which  Zwin- 
gli so  ardently  desired.  Yet  he  appears  to  have  suspected  some 
French  wile  in  this  request,  for  he  did  not  accede  to  it  until  he 
had  been  the  tiiird  time  applied  to.  He  developed  his  views  in 
form  of  a  letter  from  the  King  to  the  towns  of  "  the  Christian 
Burgher-Right"  in  Switzerland.  "As  the  Alliance,"  the  docu- 
ment, among  other  things,  says,  "  which  for  a  series  of  years  has 
existed  between  France  and  all  the  Swiss  cantons,  with  the 
exception  of  Zurich,  was  displeasing  to  the  lords  of  Zurich,  for 
the  reason  that  they  feared  gi-eat  danger  from  it  to  the  freedom  of 
Helvetia,  the  most  Christian  King  now  declares  his  willing- 
ness to  form  such  an  Alliance  as  shall,  in  no  respect,  be  contraiy 
to  the  Itiw  of  God.  For  the  most  Christian  King  desires  nothing 
so  mucli  as  that  the  gospel  be  preserved  in  its  purity.  If  any 
party  be  attacked  for  its  reception  or  ailherence  to  thego.spel,  the 
other  shall  stand  by  and  defend  it;  if  it,  on  the  other,  attacks,  the 
other -party    is  only   then   (iiider   oblig;ition   to  assist    when   the 


410  CHRISTIAN  CIVIL  RIGHTS. 

grounds  for  the  attack  are  recognised  as  legitimate."  In  handing 
over  this  remarkable  document  to  General  Maigret  for  transmis- 
sion, he  expressed  the  wish,  in  an  accompanying  letter  to  him, 
that  the  Landgrave  of  Hessen,  Duke  Ulrich  of  Wirtemberff,  and 
some  of  the  South  German  Free  towns,  might  be  permitted  to 
join  the  League.  Both  the  ambassadors  answered  the  Eeformer, 
on  the  27th  February  1580,  to  the  effect:  "The  time  is  not  yet 
ripe  to  enter  on  such  far-reaching  plans."  General  Maigret 
explained  himself  more  distinctly:  "As  long  as  the  King's  sons 
are  held  in  captivity  by  the  Emperor,  no  farther  negotiations  on 
this  head  can  be  gone  into,  because  they  would  only  tend  to 
delay  the  liberation  of  the  princes."  For  the  rest  this  states- 
man continued  to  cultivate  Zwingii's  friendship  as  before,  and 
strove  to  remove  the  ]3rejudices  which  prevailed,  particularly  in 
France,  against  his  person  and  doctrine.  He  requested  the 
Reformer  to  propitiate  Francis  I.  for  the  Reformation,  to  state 
"  the  chief  points  of  his  creed  as  well  as  his  views  upon  the  civil 
power,  and  its  relation  to  its  subjects,"  and  to  present  this  work 
to  the  king.  Zwingli  fulfilled  this  request.  He  composed  three 
months  before  his  death  the  Treatise,  and  sent  it  to  the  king. 
But  the  hopes  which  he  and  Maigret  entertained  for  the  victory  of 
the  gospel  in  France  from  this  step  were  not  destined  to  be  fulfilled. 
Francis  First's  sole  object  in  desiring  to  unite  with  the  Swiss  Free 
towns  was,  that  they  might  assist  him  in  the  conquest  of  Lom- 
bardy ;  he  was  a  stranger  to  that  pure  enthusiasm  with  which  the 
Reformer  laboured  and  fought  for  evangelical  truth  and  the  rights 
of  conscience.  Indeed,  Zwingli  had  to  experience,  in  other  quar- 
ters also,  to  his  profound  regret,  that  his  efforts  did  not  every- 
where meet  with  that  recognition  to  which  they  were  entitled. 

In  Switzerland,  Berne  was  particularly  averse  to  the  extension 
of  the  league  of  "  the  Christian  Burgher-Right"  so  far  beyond  the 
boundaries  of  the  Confederacy.  On  this  account  the  government 
of  this  canton  refused,  for  a  long  time,  to  admit  even  Strasburg 
into  the  union.  "  Berne  always  sends  bears  to  negotiate," 
Zwingli  bitterly  complained.  Its  consent  was  at  last  obtained, 
and  the  treaty  of  alliance  between  the  Reformed  Swiss  towns 
and  Strasburg  was  confirmed,  by  oath,  in  the  end  of  January 
1530.  On  the  other  hand,  Berne  obstinately  persisted  in  its 
refusal  to  accept  the  Landgrave  of  Hessen  as  a  member  of  "  tlio 


CHRISTIAN  CIVIL  HKIHTS.  411 

(,'liristiau  Bvugher-right,"  so  that  he  was  forced  to  conclude  the 
alliance  with  Zurich  and  Basle  alone,  which  he  did  in  the  sunmier 
of  l.)oO.     P>ut  in  other  quarters  also,  the  extension  of  the  league 
was  counteracted.     The  aged  Erasmus  had,  by  means  of  a  wide- 
spread witticism,  that  the  Swiss  lieformer  intended  to  introduce 
democracy  under  the  mantle  of  the  gospel,  rendered  the  ])rinces 
and  ai'istocratical  magistrates  of  the   towns  suspicious  of  the 
measures  which  had  their  origin  in  Zurich.     Favoured  by  this 
mistrust,  the  I'apal  and   Imperial  party  worked  in  secret,  by 
threats  and  promises,   against  the  union  of  the  Evangelicals. 
Hence,  in  part,  at  least,  none  of  the  South  German  Free  towns 
joined  the  alliance  except  Constance.     Finally,  the  Supper-con- 
test was  destined  to  operate  against  the  extension  of  the  league. 
The  Protestant  German  princes,  indeed,  had  combined,  after  the 
Diet  of  Augsburg,  February  1530,  at  Smalkald,  in  a  Protestant 
defensive  league,  which  had  a  similar  object  as  "  the  Christian 
Burgher- right ; "  and  the  members  of  the  Four-towns  Confession 
had  been  admitted  into  the  Smalkald  treaty.    On  the  Landgrave 
of  Hessen,  however,  expressing  his  desire  that  the  Swiss  Fre(>- 
towns  should  take  part  in  it,  the  condition  was  also  exacted  from 
them  that  they  should  sign  the  union-formula  proposed  by  Bucer, 
in  the  sense  in  which  Luther  explained  it,  previous  to  their 
admission.     At  such  a  price,  ho\\ cAer,  the  Swiss  refused  to  pur- 
chase it.     Zwingli  was  of  the  mind  tliat  "  the  Eeformed  and  the 
Lutherans  might  cultivate  friendship  and  unity  for  the  sake  of 
their  connnon  faith,  despite  the  diH'erence  in  the  doctrine  of  the 
Supper,  as  well  as  Papists  and  Lutherans,  who  stood  combined 
against  the  Turks ;  for  the  league  is  formed  for  the  defence  of  the 
land,  the  people,  common  justice,  and  that  svm  of  faith  and  doc- 
tnne  in  which  we  are  all  united.     If,  however,  they  (the  Luther- 
ans.) be  not  willing,  it  is  ver}' apparent  that  this  comes  frommistiiist 
and  arrogancv,  and  hence  we,  too,  deem  it  not  necessary  <y;>?-e/(?r 
«  ttnion  unth  them  to  truth.     However  earnestly  Zv^nngli  endea- 
voui-ed  tlie  union  of  all  Protestants  for  the  defence  of  the  preach- 
ing of  the  gospel,  and  the  rights  of  conscience,  the  conviction  lie 
had  acquired  in  the  light  of  the  divine  Word  was  too  dear  to  him 
to  deny  it,  in  but  the  smallest  point,  even  at  such  a  price.     In 
this  manner,  tlu'  fine  idea  of  tliis  alliance,  for  wliich  the  Kefonner. 
and  his  frirnfl  the  I.andgravf.  wrrc  cnthnsiastirally  preposs<»ssed, 


412  CHKISTIAN  CIVIL  RIGHTS. 

came,  to  the  deep  regret  of  both,  but  imperfectly  into  life,  like 
some  plant  that  too  early  developes  itself.  Zwingli  had  foreboded 
in  a  prophetic  spirit  what  calamities  would  burst  upon  the  various 
countries  of  Europe  if  the  confessors  of  the  gospel  were  not  to 
unite  against  their  common  enemies  for  the  preservation  of  the 
pearl  of  their  faith.  To  avert  these  calamities,  to  defend  the  pro- 
clamation of  the  pure  Word  of  God,  and  to  protect  freedom  of 
conscience,  were  the  motives  by  which  he  was  swayed  in  this 
department  of  his  labours. 


2.  eupture  between  the  protestant  and  eoman  catholic 
Parties  in  Switzerland,  and  First  Cappel  war. 

The  alliances  which  the  Eoman  Catholic  cantons  of  Switzer- 
land had  formed  with  each  other,  and  with  the  Emperor,  for  the 
suppression  of  the  Eeformation,  and  those  which  the  Eeformers 
had  partly  concluded,  partly  attempted,  in  defence  of  the  rights  of 
conscience,  and  the  free  preaching  of  the  Word,  made  it  evident 
that  a  dangerous  rupture  was  preparing  between  the  two  parties  into 
which  the  country  was  rent.  Switzerland  presented  two  hostile 
camps,  which  rested  their  extremities  on  foreign  lands,  and  which 
sought  reciprocally  to  weaken  each  other  by  the  withdrawal  of 
adherents.  An  attitude  gradually  more  resolute  and  bolder  was 
the  result  of  these  separate  alliances.  While,  in  the  Five  places,* 
every  departure  from  the  ancient  faith  was  visited  with  their 
punishment,  and  threatened  with  that  of  the  Emperor,  Zurich 
and  Berne  secured  all  who  accepted  the  gospel  in  their  own  pro- 
tection and  that  of  the  towns  of  the  Burgher-Eight."  The  differ- 
ent jurisdictions, -f-  which  often  crossed  one  another  in  the  various 
cantons,  tended  not  a  little  to  increase  animosity;  everywhere 

*  The  Cantons  Uri,  Schwyz,  Untevwalden,  Lucerne,  and  Zug,  are,  for  short- 
ness, called  "  the  Five  Places." 

t  We  remind  the  reader  of  the  lands,  possessing  themselves  in  part  old  rights 
and  privileges,  which  were  governed  alternately  by  the  Five  Places,  and  by 
Zurich  and  Berne,  or  sometimes  by  Zurich  alone.  Also  of  the  peculiar  position 
of  the  Abbot  of  St.  Gall,  who  stood  for  himself  and  his  subjects  in  a  defensive 
alliance  with  Zurich,  Lucerne,  Schwyz,  and  Glarus.  Toggenburg,  too,  which 
was  imder  the  lordship  of  the  Abbot,  occupied  a  similar  relation  to  Scln\yz  and 
Glarus. 


CHRISTIAN  Civil,  RKIHTS.  l-l.S 

jKiiut.s  111  iiritiition  ami  hostility  presented  themselves  tti  lutth 
parties  down  iVom  the  Uoruese  Alps  to  the  Bodeiisee.  In  the 
pleasant  valleys  ol'the  Bernese  upland  district,  where  the  cloister 
of  Engelberg  possesses  particular  rights  of  collation  from  Unter- 
walden,  the  majority  of  the  inhabitants  rose  in  insurrection  against 
the  government  of  lierne,  excited  by  some  priests  from  Uri  and 
Unterwalden,  and  supported  by  eight  hundred  Obwalders,  with 
their  banner.  The  Reformation  was  al)olished,  its  adherents 
maltreated,  and  the  ]\Iass  introduced.  While  Zurich  prepared 
to  march  to  the  relief  of  its  oppressed  ally,  hosts  of  volunteers 
armed  themselves  in  the  Mountain-cantons  to  support  the  insur- 
gents. In  the  meantime,  the  Mavor  of  Erlach,  at  the  head  of  the 
Bernese  troops,  had,  without  foreign  assistance,  reduced  the  up- 
landers  to  obedience,  but  the  support  of  the  insurrection,  on  the 
part  of  the  Oberwaldners,  contrary  to  treaty,  was,  long  after  its 
suppression,  threatened  with  deserved  punishment  by  Zurich  and 
Berne.  In  Bremgarteu,  the  grey-haired  Dean  BuUinger,  declared 
to  his  congregation  from  the  pulpit,  in  Februaiy  1529,  "for  three 
and  thirty  years  their  pastor,  he  had  taught  them,  walking  in 
blind  darkness,  what  he  had  himself  learned  from  blind  guides. 
Might  (Jod  pardon  him  his  involnntaiy  crime,  enlighten  him  hence- 
forth by  His  grace  to  lead  the  tlock  committed  to  him  in  accord- 
ance with  the  precepts  of  His  Word,  whereto  he  was  firmly 
resolved."  The  Town-Council,  which  a  year  before  had  come 
under  a  formal  agreement  with  "the  Five  Places"  to  keep  the  town 
in  the  ancient  faith,  deposed  lUdlinger  from  his  oflice.  He  sought 
help  in  Zurich.  His  re-settlement  in  his  pastoral  office  could  not 
be  obtained;  the  community,  however,  passed  a  resolution  that 
tlie  new  pastor  whom  they  should  elect  "must  preach  the  Old 
and  New  Testaments  ac(;ording  to  their  Divine  meaning,  and 
thereby  they  would  leave  the  matter  in  (Jod's  hand."  Oervasius 
Schuler,  who  was  next  elected,  and  Henry  lUillinger,  son  of  the 
Dean,  who  soon  afte^^vards  was  called  to  tin-  ])lace,  fulfilled  this 
promise  with  j(»y  and  blessing  to  the  comnninity.  Tlie  Kefonna- 
tion  gained  the  ascendant  in  Bremgarten,  in  Mellinger,  and  in 
several  more  of  the  neighbouring  communities,  Zurich  and 
Benie  protecting  the  P^vangelicals,  while  "  Tlie  Five  riace.s" 
threatened  apostacy  from  the  f)ld  faith  witli  ])unishment.  In 
Thnrgau  and  in  Hheinthal.  alternately  governed  bv  Zurich  and 


414  CHRISTIAN  CIVIL  EIGHTS. 

"  The  Five  Places,"  the  cause  of  the  Reformation  gradually 
advanced.  Many  of  the  communes  sought  from  Zurich  evan- 
gelical pastors.  But  the  governors  from  "  The  Five  Places,"  as 
James  Stocker,  of  Zug  in  Thurgau,  and  Melchior  G^^sler,  of  Uri 
in  Rheinthal,  persecuted  the  Evangelicals  with  all  severity, 
punishing  them  with  imprisonment,  the  rack,  stripes,  and  con- 
fiscation. Preachers  had  their  tongues  cut,  others  were  beheaded 
or  burned;  Bibles  and  all  evangelical  books  were  taken  away 
and  destroyed.  On  the  other  hand,  these  papistical  governors, 
who  made  a  boast  of  their  zeal  for  the  ancient  faith,  committed 
the  most  wanton  excesses  and  debauchery,  which,  without  any 
sense  of  shame,  they  attempted  to  justify,  and  in  this  way  they 
gave  still  greater  offence  to  the  Evangelicals,  Vvdio  were  led  to 
look  from  the  Word  of  God  for  a  higher  standard  of  morality  in 
governors  than  in  private  individuals.  In  this  position  of  affairs, 
"The  Five  Places"  protecting  their  officers,  Zurich  and  Berne  the 
evangelical  people,  animosity  rose  to  so  great  a  pitch  between  the 
two  parties,  that  it  threatened  every  moment  to  break  out  into 
open  hostility.  Another  apple  of  discord  for  the  parties  was  the 
rich  cloister  of  St.  Gall,  in  its  peculiar  relation  to  the  cantons  of 
Zurich,  Lucerne,  Schwyz,  and  Glarus.*  The  Abbot  of  this 
cloister,  as  prince  of  the  empire  devoted  to  the  Imperial  house, 
was,  by  reason  of  his  wealth  and  great  influence  in  Switzerland, 
one  of  the  most  dangerous  enemies  of  the  Reformation.  Never- 
theless, it  gained  many  adherents  among  his  subjects,  especially 
after  the  beginning  of  the  year  1529,  when  James  Frei,  member 
of  the  Zurich  Council,  and  a  zealous  friend  of  the  Reformation, 
was  appointed  lieutenant  of  the  country.  The  doctrine  of  the 
anti-Scriptural  character  of  spiritual  supremacy,  proclaimed  by 
Zwingii  with  all  emphasis,  met  with  a  hearty  reception,  not  only 
from  the  majority  of  the  Abbot's  subjects,  but  also  from  many 
of  the  brothers.  The  Abbot,  Francis  von  Geissberg,  who  lay  sick 
of  the  dropsy,  found  himself  quite  unable  to  offer  any  opposition 
to  the  progress  of  the  Reformation,  and  had  himself  hastily  carried 

*  The  Abbot  had  concluded  a  defensive  alliance  with  the  above-named  can- 
tons for  his  whole  possessions,  in  which  they  engaged  to  defend  him  and  his 
monastery,  as  well  as  his  subjects,  in  all  their  rights  and  liberties.  In  exercise 
of  their  right,  and  in  conformity  with  their  engagement,  the  four  states  sent 
every  two  years  a  lieutenant  to  Wyl,  who  was  a  member  of  the  secret  Council 
of  the  Abbot,  and  immediatelv  followed  him  in  rank. 


CHRISTIAN  CIVIL  RIGHTS.  4-1') 

to  his  lurtifit'd  castle  at  Roshach,  where  alone  he  considered 
himself  safe.  Four  days  afterwards,  I'urgnniaster  Vailian  took 
possession  of  the  cathedral,  from  which  he  ordered  the  images  to 
be  removed;  the  treasures  of  the  cloister  the  monks  had  carried 
oft"  to  Einsii'deln.  The  Abbot  died  at  lloshacli,  on  the  21st 
JMarch;  his  ileatii,  however,  was  concealed  for  some  time,  until 
the  monks  succeeded,  in  an  illegal  manner,  indeed,  in  electing  a 
successor.  Kilian  German,  descendant  of  an  honourable  family 
in  Toggenbm-g,  a  shrewil  and  clever  monl':,  hitherto  the  gi'eat 
steward  of  the  cloister  had  this  perilous  dignity  conferred  upon 
him.  Soon  after  the  election,  he  succeeded  in  obtaining  the 
recognititm  of  Schwyz  iind  Lucerne,  and  the  Pope's  confirmation 
of  his  ai)pointment,  whih'  from  Austria  he  received  the  assurance 
of  powerful  support  for  the  maintenance  of  his  position.  Upon 
tliis,  he  immediately  declared,  in  jilain  terms,  that  he  would  not 
rest  satisfied  till  he  and  his  convent  were  again  in  possession  of 
their  rights,  the  images  replaced  in  the  church,  and  the  Mass 
again  celebrated  within  its  walls.  Zurich,  on  the  other  hand, 
requested,  at  Zwingli's  advice,  which  was  asked  and  given,  that 
Kilian  should  first  of  all  establish,  by  the  Scriptures  of  the  Old 
and  New  Testament,  tliat  monkery  is  good  and  well-pleasing  in 
the  sight  of  Clod,  else  that  he  should  lay  aside  the  cowl,  and 
abandon  inonkeiy;  as  abbot,  Zurich  would  never  acknowledge 
him,  since  as  protecting  power,  it  had  undertaken  the  duty  of 
defending  the  Christian  peo[»le  in  the  maintenance  of  their  rights. 
This  state,  accordingly,  M'ould  never  allow  the  spiritual  yoke  to 
be  again  pressed  on  the  household  of  God :  "  Hence,"  says 
Zwingli  on  this  opinion,  delivered  by  him,  "  either  our  lords  with 
their  Christian  fellow-citizens  of  St.  GaU,  and  all  the  peo])l(' 
of  God  who  have  pledged  their  lives  and  property  to  t)ur 
lortls,  that  the  AVord  of  God  shall  be  administered,  desist,  and 
become  perjured  to  their  <»atlis,  or  the  Abbot  Kilian  desists." 
AVliile  Zurich  and  St  Gall  pressed  with  all  their  power  for  the 
dissolution  of  the  cloister,  and  the  land's-lieutenant  Frei  secured 
the  subjects  of  the  cloi.ster  in  the  liberties  and  institutions  whicli 
the  Zurich  country  people  enjoyed,  the  Abbot  Kilian  took  his 
measures  in  .secret,  with  the  help  of  "The  Five  Places"  and  Austria, 
to  recover  his  rights  and  dignity.  The  affair  therefore  presented 
a  very  embarrassing  aspect. 


416  CHRISTIAN  CIVIL  RKiHTS, 

At  length,  Garter,  a  district  under  tlie  superiority  of  iSchwyz 
and  Glarus,  became  the  occasion  of  raising  the  animosity  between 
8chwyz  and  Zurich  to  a  formal  outbreak  of  hostilities.  Tlie 
Eeformation  had  manifested  itself  in  some  communities  of  this 
district  in  iconoclastic  acts.  The  Schwyzers,  accordingly, 
menaced  their  sul)jects  with  war  and  with  punishment  for  these 
acts  of  violence,  and  ordered  the  images  to  be  again  set  up,  and 
the  Mass  to  be  re-established.  The  menaced  sought  help  in 
Zurich.  Zurich  assured  them  of  protection,  in  so  far  as  they 
should  be  assailed  on  the  ground  of  their  evangelical  faith. 

While  embarrassments  thus  increased,  and  animosity  between 
the  parties  rose  to  such  a  pitch  of  violence,  the  friends  of  the  Ee- 
formation made  a  last  attempt  to  settle  disputes  on  an  amicable 
foot,  and  to  accomplish  a  reconciliation  with  their  adversaries.  In 
a  diet,  (21st  April  1529,)  which  was  held  in  Zurich  without  "The 
Five  Places,"  it  was  resolved  to  call  upon  these  cantons,  through 
an  embassage,  to  withdraw  from  their  alliance  with  Austria,  to 
desist  from  persecuting  the  Evangelicals,  and  to  prohibit  the 
invectives  that  were  so  shamefully  uttered  among  their  subjects 
against  the  evangelical  members  of  the  Confederacy.  "  United 
in  07ie  faith  in  Christ,  our  worthy  ancestors  maintained  freedom 
between  man  and  man  against  every  foe.  The  Evangelicals  have 
never  fallen  from  this  faith,  but  they  wish  it  renewed  in  its 
ancient  purity  and  power.  Why  do  you  ally  yourselves  against 
us,  your  old  and  tried  Confederates,  with  Austria,  the  hereditary 
enemy  of  Switzerland,  and  malign  us  as  heretics  and  infidels  ?" 
The  magistracies  of  "  The  Five  Places"  (the  deputies  were  only 
allowed  a  hearing  before  the  Councils  in  Schwyz,)  answered  these 
well-meant  representations  haughtily,  and  with  contumelious 
expressions.  "  Only  no  preaching,"  they  shouted  to  the  speaking 
deputy  in  Zug.  In  Uri :  "  We  might  wish  the  new  faith  eternally 
buried."  In  Lucerne :  "  Your  seditious  parsons  undermine  the 
faith  as  erst  in  paradise  the  serpent  swung  his  folds  round  Adam 
and  Eve.  We  will  preserve  our  children  and  children's  children 
from  such  poison."  In  Stans :  "  We'll  have  nothing  more  to  do 
with  the  new  sect,  and  sha'nt  meet  them  at  the  Diet."  In 
Sarnen :  "  We  and  the  other  Wald  towns  are  the  true  old  Con- 
federates who  first  took  you  into  the  union,  and  now,  verily,  you 
mean  to   be  our  masters,  and  oppress  us.     I>ut  the  Emperor, 


RUPTURE  BETWEEN  PliOTHSTANTS  ANU  PAIMSTS.  117 

France,  Savoy,  aiul  our  lord  of  Muisso  \\  ill  know  to  hiiidcr  you." 
The  ambassadors  saw,  on  tlu'  house  of  the  Town-Ch'ik,  a  i^reat 
gallows  painted,  on  whieh  the  arms  of  Zurich,  Berne,  Basle,  and 
Strasburg  were  suspended.  Thus  the  attempted  reconciliation 
was  piit  away  by  "  The  Five  Places,"  with  a  rude  and  overbear- 
ing arrogancy,  deeply  wounding  to  the  feelings  of  the  evangelical 
l)ai-ty. 

It  was  not  reverence  to  the  faith  of  their  forefathers,  and 
attachment  to  old  customs,  which  inclined  them  to  this  course 
of  procedure,  but  it  was  the  general  corruption  of  manners  in  high 
and  low,  engendered  by  the  taking  of  pensions  and  donations 
from  foreign  princes,  and  the  Ijaneful  i)articipation  in  mercenary 
warfare.*  It  was  because  the  preaching  of  the  pure  Word  of 
(lod  revealed  this  corruption  in  light,  and  rebuked  it  with  godly 
seriousness;  it  was  because  the  Eeformers  sought  to  dry  up  the 
sources  of  it  by  the  total  prohiljition  of  foreign  pensions,  and  of 
mercenary  warfare ;  that  the  leadei-s  of  the  people  were  animated 
with  such  bitter  hostility  to  the  Keformation  in  the  old  cantons. 

In  the  opinion  of  the  Beformer,  the  Protestant  towns  had  not 
only  the  right,  but  the  duty  was  imposed  upon  them  of  inter- 
fering to  prevent  these  crjdng  evils,  and  of  compelling  "The 
Five  Places,"  even  with  force  of  arms,  to  abolish  the  pensions 
and  mercenaiy  wars,  by  which  their  native  country  was  brought 
to  the  vei-ge  of  destruction,  to  permit  witliiu  their  territories  the 
free  i)reacliing  of  the  "Word  of  God,  which  is  given  to  all  men  for 
salvation,  and  to  leave  faith  in  the  gospel  unpunished.  "The 
Confederacy,"  he  writes,  "  is  like  one  town  or  community.  Now 
if  an  individual  in  a  community  in  which  all  the  citizens  enjoy 
equal  liberty  and  equal  rights,  grossly  sin,  the  others  nmst  punish 
him  for  it,  else  they  make  themselves  partakers  of  his  sin,  and 
( Jod  will  punish  them  for  it  as  well  as  the  offender.  Since,  then, 
the  procedure  of  "The  Five  Places"  is  so  blasphemous  and  so 
ruinous  to  the  whole  honourable  Confederacy,  we  must  punish 
them  for  it,  or  we  have  to  fear  that  we  shall  be  extirpated  with 

*  The  Hcention.sncss  wliicli  then  prevailcil  nniont;nierocnnrysohliers,  cxt'n-i.se<l 
a  most  iorrui)tive  inttiience  on  the  morals  of  tlie  peojilc,  not  only  in  Switzer- 
land, hut  also  in  (Jirmany.  In  1.551  the  German  states  handed  in  a  conijdaint 
to  Maximilian  II..  that  the  mercenaries,  on  returning  from  foreijrn  service,  were 
iriiiltv  of  the  preatcst  enormities. 

2  D 


418  RUPTUIIE  BETWEEN  PROTESTANTS  AND  PAPISTS. 

them,  we,  tlieir  fellow-citizens,  brethren,  and  Confederates,  being 
guilty  with  them.  Let  it  not  be  objected,  they  have  their  own 
power,  their  own  right,  their  own  government ;  away  with  svich 
an  objection,  when  they  employ  their  power  in  the  suppression 
of  the  gospel,  and  the  maltreatment  of  their  brethren.  Of  the 
twelve  tribes  in  Israel,  each  had  its  own  princes  and  its  own 
rights.  But  when,  in  the  tribe  of  Benjamin,  that  monstrous 
iniquity  was  perpetrated  on  the  Levite,  Judges  xix.  xx.,  and  this 
tribe  did  not  punish  the  evil-doers,  and  the  other  tribes  were 
remiss  in  interfering,  God  visited  them  all  in  punitive  justice. 
The  army  of  the  twelve  tribes  was  twice  beaten  by  the  Benjamites, 
and  lost  forty  thousand  men;  it  again  slew  five-and-twenty 
thousand  Benjamites.  When  rude  arrogance  reaches  such  a 
pitch,  as  we  see  is  the  case  in  the  inhabitants  of  '  The  Five 
Places,'  it  cannot  be  otherwise  tamed  but  by  force.  By  mildness 
and  indulgence,  these  people  will  just  as  little  be  amended  as 
the  wolf  will  be  hindered  by  the  meekness  of  the  lamb  from 
tearing  it  in  pieces.  Since  they  will  neither  repent  nor  obey 
God,  nor  listen  to  His  Word,  but,  on  the  contrary,  punish  those 
who  proclaim  His  Word,  and  those  who  receive  it,  there  is  no 
other  remedy  but  to  put  them  right  by  the  strong  hand." 

Zwingli's  idea  was  that  the  evangelical  towns  should  quickly 
and  resolutely,  but  according  to  a  well-conceived  plan,  invade 
the  territory  of  the  five  cantons,  from  different  quarters  at  once, 
with  their  overwhelming  force  in  artillery  and  men,  so  that  these 
might  speedily  be  convinced  that  all  resistance  was  useless,  and 
that  it  would  only  lead  to  their  destruction.  He  thought  that 
the  prohibition  of  foreign  pensions  and  of  mercenary  warfare,  as 
well  as  the  liberty  to  preach  the  Word  of  God,  and  to  accept  it 
as  the  directory  for  faith  and  practice,  might  be  gained  for  the 
inhabitants  of  "  The  Five  Places"  by  a  bloodless  campaign.  The 
glowing  zeal  which  filled  the  Saviour  of  the  world,  when  He 
purified  His  Father's  house  from  the  doings  of  covetousness  with 
the  whip  of  cords,  inspired  also  the  Pteformer  to  remove  the 
disturbers  of  the  pure  worship  of  God  from  the  valleys  of  his 
native  land  with  force,  that  under  the  preaching  of  the  gospel, 
and  faith  in  Christ,  it  might  once  more  become  a  dwelling-place 
for  the  glory  of  the  Most  High.  "  We  have  ere  this  helped  many 
a  worldly  lord  to  land  and  men.     Let  us  now,  in  the  name  of 


RUPTURE  BETWEEN  PROTESTANTS  AND  PAPISTS.  419 

God,  help  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  to  His  sovereignty  in  our  land. 
But,  take  up  the  matter  boldly  and  in  a  Christian  spirit."  Such 
was  his  watchword.  Tlie  wretched  condition  which  a  part  of 
his  native  countiy  was  in,  -where  the  good  found  no  protection, 
the  bad  no  pimishnient,  was  intolerable  to  him.  In  this  dis- 
position of  mind,  he  WTote  to  his  friends  in  Berne,  who  warned 
him  of  war:  "Be  steadfast,  and  be  not  afraid  of  war;  for  the 
peace  which  some  impress  upon  us  is  war,  and  the  war  I  wish  is 
peace.  AVe  thirst  for  no  man's  blood,  and  seek  no  personal 
interest  of  our  own;  our  object  is  to  tame  these  upstart  tyrants 
who  rise  against  God  and  suppress  His  Word,  and  to  tear  their 
usurped  power  from  their  grasp.  If  this  is  not  done,  neither 
evangelical  truth  nor  her  heralds  and  followers  are  safe.  We 
have  no  cruel  thoughts ;  what  we  do  is  with  a  paternal  and 
benevolent  purjiose.  We  wish  to  save  some  who,  led  aw^ay  by 
the  wicked,  will  perish  in  their  ignorance.  The  liberty  of  preach- 
ing tlie  gospel,  and  of  believing  in  it,  I  should  wish  alone  to 
conquer.  I  pray  you  only  put  confidence  in  me.  With  God's 
help  I  shall  aliide  Avorthy  of  it." 

While  the  contemptuous  and  oflensive  answers  returned  by  "The 
Five  Places"  excited  the  most  indignant  feelings  in  Zurich,  events 
immediately  intervened  thereon  which  stirred  up  the  flame  of 
war,  already  glowing  strongly  under  the  embers  into  a  complete 
outburst.  The  pastor  of  a  congi-egation  in  Zurich,  James  Kaiser,* 
called  Schlossar,  had  received  a  call  to  the  parish  of  Obcrkirch, 
in  Garter,  and  intended  to  obey  it  in  ]\lartinmas  1529.  Mean- 
while, he  was  in  the  habit  of  repairing  as  often  as  he  conveniently 
could  to  Oljerkirch,  where  the  Reformation  had  found  an  entrance, 
to  strengthen  this  congregation  in  the  faith,  by  his  preaching  of 
the  Word.  Upon  one  of  these  journeys  he  was  suddenly  fallen 
upon  in  a  wood  near  Utznach,  by  six  men,  bound  and  carried 
away  to  Schwyz.  This  infamous  surpri.se  and  attack  on  the 
public  highway  were  made  at  the  orders  of  the  Schwyzer  gover- 
nors in  Utznach,  in  obedience  to  the  instioictions  sent  to  all  officers 
of  "The  Five  Places,"  "to  take  prisoners,  and  deliver  over  to  the  ma- 
gistracy, all  preachers  and  adherents  of  the  new  doctrine."   Zurich 

•  Kaiser  was  bom  at  Utznach.  As  parson  in  the  island  of  Ufcnau,  he  had 
preached  with  great  zeal  anainftt  the  images,  and  thereby  incurred  the  vehement 
hatred  of  the  Schwvzpro. 


420  RUPTURE  BETWEEN  PROTESTANTS  AND  PAPISTS. 

immediately  sent  a  deputy  to  Scliwyz,  witli  an  emphatic  remon- 
strance in  favour  of  tlie  guiltless  preacher  of  the  Word,  and  the 
request  that  he  should  be  set  at  liberty.  Glarus,  which,  along 
with  Schwyz,  governed  the  Garter  lands,  demanded,  in  accord- 
ance with  law  and  right,  that  the  prisoner  should  be  tried  before 
the  courts  of  justice  in  Garter.  But  all  intervention  in  behalf  of 
the  unhappy  prisoner  was  fruitless.  The  authorities  in  Schwyz 
condemned  him  as  a  heretic  to  death,  by  fire,  which  he  was  forth- 
with to  suffer.  The  unfortunate  witness  for  the  truth,  who,  on 
hearing  the  sentence  of  death  pronounced  against  him,  was  taken 
by  surprise,  exhibiting  pusillanimity  and  weeping  loudly,  was 
soon  thereafter  so  strengthened  by  the  grace  of  God  that  he  went 
joyfully  to  the  stake,  and  praised  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  in  the 
midst  of  the  flames,  that  He  had  deemed  him  worthy  of  dying 
for  the  sake  of  His  holy  gospel.  "  Tell  in  Zurich  how  he  thanked 
VIS,"  cried  a  Schwyz  councillor  with  insulting  brutality  to  trea- 
surer Edlebach,  who  had  brought  the  mediation  for  the  unhappy 
man.  "  If  you  had  had  the  interests  of  the  parsons  as  much  at 
heart,"  wrote  the  Schwyz  Council  to  that  of  Zurich,  "as  you 
describe  in  your  letter  to  us,  you  would  have  kept  him  with  you, 
and  not  have  left  him  to  our  people.  This  would  have  been  most 
agreeable  to  us,  and  it  would  have  been  better  for  him." 

Seven  days  after  the  martyrdom  of  this  Protestant  clergyman, 
certain  of  the  Eeforming  party  brought  the  intelligence  to  Zurich 
from  "  the  Free  Offices "  that  the  Unterwaldners  who,  on  account 
of  their  support  of  the  insurgents  in  the  Bernese  upland,  had 
been  excluded  for  the  duration  of  one  "office"  from  the  govern- 
ment of  the  subject-lands,  were  sending  a  party  of  armed  men  to 
escort  a  governor  to  Baden.  At  the  same  time,  they  had  sworn 
"  to  take  vengeance  for  the  burning  of  the  idols  on  the  Evan- 
gelicals." At  the  same  moment,  Zurich  learned  that  the  Austrian 
officials,  on  the  Swiss  frontier,  were  enlisting  men,  and  arming 
for  an  irruption.  Under  the  impression  produced  by  these  various 
reports,  the  Zurich  Council,  on  the  3d  of  June,  resolved  on  war, 
and  proclaimed  it,  in  the  first  instance,  against  Scliwyz.  "  We 
have  received,"  wrote  Zurich  to  Schwyz,  "  your  haughty  and  con- 
temptuous letter,  and  have  understood  it.  You  reproach  us  with 
not  keeping  the  treaties ;  we  imagine  they  have  been  better  kept 
on  our  part  than  by  you.     You  have  persecuted  or  delivered  up 


RUPTURE  BETWEEN  PROTESTANTS  AND  PAPISTS.  421 

to  enemies,  or  yourselves  martyred  and  shiin,  many  an  honest 
man,  because  he  gave  God  the  glory,  and  joyfully  confessed  his 
faith.  You  have  abused,  reviled,  and  maltreated  our  people  who, 
by  God's  grace,  ai-e  pious,  worthy  Christians,  and  come  of  an 
honest  stock.  A  holy  priest,  resident  in  our  toM'n,  and  under  our 
protection,  you  have  fallen  upon  outside  of  your  jurisdiction,  car- 
ried off,  and,  for  the  Word  of  God's  sake,  and  to  God's  high  dis- 
l>leasure  and  contempt  of  us,  have  insolently,  and  in  defiance  of 
law,  condennied  to  burning.  Since,  therefore,  we  see  that  neither 
law  nor  justice  have  place  among  you,  we  resolve,  for  the  salva^ 
tion  and  maintenance  of  Divine  tmth,  for  His  and  our  own 
honour,  to  punish,  according  to  the  will  of  God,  such  arrogance, 
violence,  and  evil-doing,  and  shall,  as  far  as  God's  grace  and 
strength  permit  us,  not  only  take  vengeance  for  the  same  in  act, 
bui  we  shall  warn  you,  therefore,  and  will  thus  maintain  our 
honour.  You  will  have  it  so,  and  have  driven  us  to  this  by  your 
violent  procedure."  Eesolute  and  deliberate  action  on  the  part  of 
the  Zurich  government  testified  to  the  fact  that  they  were  serious 
in  this  declaration  of  hostilities.  The  active  force  was  imme- 
diately called  out,  distributed  and  employed,  according  to  a  well- 
conceived  plan  of  war.  Five  hundred  men,  under  Ulricli  Stoll, 
marched  out  against  "  the  Free  Offices,"  and,  .strengthened  by  a 
hundred  Bremgarten  burghers,  occupied  the  cloister  of  Muri,  in 
order  to  prevent  the  approach  of  the  governor  from  Unterwalden. 
Four  hundred  men,  under  the  command  of  Hans  Escher,  were 
posted  at  the  eastern  end  of  the  Lake  of  Zurich,  to  observe  Scliwyz, 
the  same  number,  under  James  Werdmueller,  at  Eueti,  with  the 
design  of  encouraging  the  Evangelicals  of  Toggenberg,  Garter,  and 
CJlanis  to  join  them.  The  principal  body,  consisting  of  four 
thousand  picked  warriors,  fully  armed,  and  well  furnished  with 
artiller}'  and  provisions,  marched,  on  the  first  intelligence  that 
"the  Five  Places"  were  arming  in  full  force,  and  had  Mritten  to 
Austria,  on  CappeL  Zwingli,  armed  with  his  halberd,*  rode  with 
the  main  body;  along  with  him  Francis  Zingg,  and  the  Comthur 
Schmidt,  who  had  l)een  appointed  by  the  Council  field  i»reacher. 
At   the  same  time,  lludolf  Lavater,  governor  of  Kyl)urg,  wa.s 

•  The  Swi.ss  ficld-chiipliiins  carried  a  wcajion  on  service  \i\>  till  tiie  most  recent 
time.  Zwingli's  halberd,  which  he  had  already  used  in  the  hattle  of  Mnripn«no, 
had  no  other  significance  than  the  later  side-wcui'on  oi"  the  field  iireacher. 


422  RUPTUKE  BETWEEN  PROTESTANTS  AND  PAPISTS. 

instructed  to  march  against  Wyl  ^vith  five  hundred  men,  Avho 
were  assigned  to  him  for  this  purpose,  to  take  prisoner  the  Abbot 
of  Kilian,*  to  occupy  for  Zurich  Thurgau  and  Eheinthal,  and  to 
protect  the  frontier  agamst  Austria.  With  such  a  display  of  cir- 
cumspection and  resokition,  the  Zurich  Council  acted  quite  in  the 
sense  of  Zwingli,  who,  in  all  likelihood,  had  drawn  out  the  plan 
of  war.  -f- 

Zurich  justified  these  steps  in  a  document  which  it  caused  to 
be  printed.  It  is  said  in  this,  among  other  things  :  "  It  is  well 
known  to  all,  how  'The  Five  Places'  have  for  years  insulted,  reviled, 
despised,  injured,  oppressed,  and  attacked  us  in  many  respects. 
Yet  we  have  considered  what  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  suffered  for 
our  sakes,  and  for  God's  glory  have  patiently  borne  and  submitted 
to  these,  in  the  hope  that  an  amendment  might  take  place. 
Measures  being  now,  however,  so  plainly  taken  for  the  suppres- 
sion of  the  gospel,  we  will  rather  suffer  death  itself  than  allow  a 
course  of  procedure  so  shameful  before  God  and  all  the  world  to 
continue."  After  recounting  their  grievances,  they  solemnly  deny 
that  they  have  taken  up  arms  to  rob,  to  burn,  or  to  shed  blood, 
but  to  punish  the  authors  of  the  disorders  and  violence  com- 
plained of  in  "  The  Five  Places."  '■  If,  however,  we  be  met  with 
opposition,  we  shall,  with  the  help  of  Almighty  God,  stake  our 
all  upon  it,  and  shall  shew  to  the  present  and  future  times  what 
it  is  to  break  good  faith  and  solemn  treaties,  and  that  the  highest 
God's  service  is  to  live  a  godly  life,  and  to  protect  justice  between 
man  and  man,  with  self-sacrifice.  May  the  gracious  Lord  over- 
rule all,  for  whose  glory  we  expose  ourselves  to  these  dangers 
and  costs,  in  the  hope  that  He  will  defend  his  own  people  with 
His  power  and  favour,  as  in  the  days  of  old." 

Courage,  resolution,  and  a  joyful  readiness  to  shed  their  blood 
in  the  defence  of  evangelic  truth  and  Christian  order  in  their 

*  The  Abbot  Kilian  received  intelligence  of  this  design  against  him,  and  fled 
in  all  haste  to  Suabia. 

t  We  have  yet  two  plans  of  war  from  Zwlngli's  pen,  which  testily  his  accurate 
knowledge  of  the  military  tactics  of  the  period,  as  well  as  that  his  object  was  to 
bring  about,  by  a  rapid  and  general  development  of  all  the  forces  at  command, 
as  speedy  and  bloodless  a  decision  as  possible.  "When,  however,  nothing 
remains  but  to  fight  gallantly,  or  to  deny  God  and  His  Word,  let  the  good  town 
of  Zurich  rather  lose  money,  blood,  life,  than  apostatise  from  acknowledged 
triirh." 


RUPTURE  BET  WHEN  PROTESTANTS  AND  PAPISTS.  +23 

native  land,  filled  the  hivasts  of  the  Zurich  Maniur.s.  On  the 
evening  of  the  9th  of  June,  they  encamped  near  Cappel,  and  sent 
the  next  morning  their  declaration  of  war  to  the  army  of  "  The 
Five  Places"  assembled  at  Zug.  This  declaration,  as  well  as  the 
report  of  the  setting  out  of  the  Zurich  host,  had  caused,  in  inner 
Switzerland,  the  men  capable  of  bearing  arms  to  be  summoned 
to  their  .standards.  Zug,  which  yaw  itself  first  threatened, 
anxiously  begged  for  help  from  the  other  places.  Volunteers 
liasted  thither  tirst  of  all,  then  followed  the  banners  of  Schwyz, 
Uri,  and  Untm-walden.  Lucerne  had  marched  against  "  the  Free 
Ofiices."  Zurich  wished  the  war  begun  immediately  on  its  de- 
claration. Close  after  the  departure  of  the  trumpeter  with  the 
declaration,  "William  Toenig,  leader  of  the  vanguard,  marshalled 
his  men  for  attack,  and  was  on  the  point  of  leading  them  across 
the  boundary,  when  the  Landamman  ^bli  of  Glarus,  rode 
from  Baar  up  the  hill,  and  pressingly  begged  a  hearing  before 
they  advanced  fiirther.  A  halt  was  ordered,  and  the  leaders 
approached  the  Anmian  to  learn  his  request.  "  The  Five  l*laces," 
saiil  he,  "  are  armed ;  but  it  is  a  misery  to  them  that  blood  is 
about  to  be  shed.  I  entreat  you  for  a  delay  of  a  few  hours,  for  I 
know  that  the  messengers  of  our  Confederates  are  set  out  from 
all  quarters  to  negotiate  a  piece.  Is  a  peace,  by  which  one  can 
live  according  to  the  gospel,  not  possible  between  those  who  have 
often  stood  man  to  man  against  the  common  foe  ?  Honourable 
dear  lords  of  Zurich,  for  God's  sake  prevent  the  division  and 
iniin  of  the  Confederacy."  vEbli's  speech,  and  the  respect  in 
which  he  M-as  held  by  many,  as  a  friend  of  the  go.spel,  and  an 
enemy  of  mercenaryism,  had  the  efl'ect  of  inducing  the  leaders  to 
despatch  couriers  to  Zurich  for  instructions  as  to  how  they  should 
act^  But  Zwingli  M'ent  up  to  /Fbli,  with  the  words,  "  Godfather 
Amman,*  you  will  have  to  give  answer  to  God  for  this  media- 
tion. Because  the  enemy  are  in  our  power  and  unarmed,  they 
give  us  fair  words.  You  believe  them  and  mediate.  Afterwards, 
when  they  are  armed,  they  will  not  spare  us,  and  then  there  will 

*  While  parson  of  Glaru-s  Zwingli  had  become  god-father  of  the  Landam- 
man. At  this  time,  probably,  the  custom  which  still  exists  in  Gnmbnnd  was 
generally  prevalent  in  Switzerland,  of  the  i)astor's  being  god-father  to  the 
parents  of  all  the  children  he  baptises ;  for  Zwingli  had  in  Zurich  many  god- 
fathers in  families  in  which  he  could  hardly  havp  stood  as  god-father  in  baptism. 


424  RUPTURE  BETWEEN  PEOTESTANTS  AND  PAPISTS, 

be  none  to  mediate."  The  Landamnian  replied :  "  My  dear  God- 
father, I  trnst  in  God  that  good  will  come  of  it;  let  us  act 
always  for  the  best." 

The  position  which  Berne  and  some  of  the  other  allies  of 
Zurich  took  up  in  this  campaign,  exercised,  for  the  progress  and 
result  of  the  mediation,  an  influence  important  indeed,  but  alto- 
gether paralysing  as  to  any  thorough  and  honourable  settlement 
of  affairs.  The  Eeformation  had,  in  Berne,  among  the  nobility, 
and  in  isolated  districts  among  the  country  people,  still  many 
concealed  enemies,  who  made  their  influence  even  secretly  felt 
in  the  Council.  "  We  are,"  Haller  wrote  to  Zwingli,  "  in  our 
government  as  rotten  as  ever,  and  it  is  much  to  be  feared  that 
in  the  new  election  to  the  Great  and  Little  Councils  just 
approaching  those  who  have  shewn  themselves  hostile  to  the 
Word  of  God  will  all  come  to  the  surface  of  the  water  again. 
Think  of  us  only  as  if  we  could  effect  no  good."  Thus  it  hap- 
pened that  the  usually  so  belligerent  Berne  sent  one  message  of 
l)eace  after  another  to  Zurich ;  nay,  went  so  far  as  to  inculcate 
upon  this  state  the  lesson  that  "  faith  is  not  to  be  implanted  by 
spears  and  halberds."*  Wlien  Zurich  had  at  length  resolved  on 
war,  called  upon  the  allies  for  aid,  and  Treasurer  Edlebach,  in 
commission  of  his  government,  had  requested  the  Bernese  depu- 
ties in  Lenzburg  to  give  orders  for  their  force  to  advance  into 
"the  Free  Offices,"  and  join  the  Zurich  host,  under  Ulrich  StoU, 
they  replied,  "  They  had  no  instructions  as  to  marching  either  to 
Zurich  or  Muri.  If  the  Zurichers  had  begun  the  war  without 
them,  they  might  finish  it  without  them."  Upon  another  press- 
ing summons  which  Zurich  made  in  writing,  and  sent  by  depu- 
ties to  Berne,  the  Great  Council  of  the  canton  gave  the  follow- 
ing answer :  "  We  pray,  we  remind  and  exhort  you,  that  you  do 
not  overstep,  with  your  host  and  banner,  the  boundaries  of  your 
own  territory,  and  that  you  attack  none.  If  you  yourselves  be 
first  attacked,  or  are  injured  either  in  land  or  people,  we  shall  not 
abandon  you.  We  have  in  haste  called  a  Diet  of  all  the  Con- 
federates to  meet  at  Aarau.  If  '  The  Five  Places '  give  satisfac- 
tion for  libels  and  vituperations,   renounce   the    alliance  with 

*  Just  as  this  observation  in  itself  is,  it  did  not  come  well  from  the  mouth  of 
the  Bernese  government  of  the  time,  who  had  paid  verj-  little  attention  to  it.  at 
tlic  introduction  of  the  Reformation  in  their  own  territorv.  and  in  Wadtland. 


HUPTURE  BETWEEN  PROTESTANTS  AND  PAPISTS.  425 

Austria,  and  pimisli  Dr.  Munier,  we  are  inclined  to  peace. 
If  you,  liowever,  or  'the  Five  Places,'  do  not  hold  yourselves 
as  we  do,  we  shall  apply  force  to  you  and  tlieni."  With  this 
object  Berne  enrolled  oOOO  men,  and  sent  them,  under  Mayor 
von  Diessbach,  an  enemy  of  Manuel's,*  to  Aarau  and  Lenz- 
burg.  They  were  joined  by  the  auxiliaries  sought  by  Zurich 
from  Basle,  ^Muchlhausen,  and  Biel,  while  the  Glarners  occupied 
(larterland,  and  declared  themselves  neutral.  Three  hundred 
well  armed  men  from  St.  Gall,  and  twelve  hundred  Thurgauers 
marched  to  Cappel  to  stn^igthen  the  Zurichers.  On  the  other 
hand,  two  thousand  Walliscrs  had  marched  to  the  aid  of  "  The 
Five  Places."  Upon  the  whole  the  warlike  force  which  took 
tlie  field  on  both  sides  is  given  at  30,000  men. 

As  Landamman  ^bli  predicted,  negotiators  of  peace  soon 
arrived  in  Zurich  from  Appenzell,  Graubund,  Freiburg,  and  Solo- 
thurn.  Even  from  Strasburg  the  town-sheriff,  James  Sturm,  came, 
not  alone  as  a  messenger  of  peace,  but  also  in  the  name  of  his 
native  city,  bringing  the  grateful  intelligence  to  the  Zurichers, 
"  that  the  inhabitants  of  Strasburg  will  not  suffer  them  to  want 
either  for  money  or  corn,  and,  in  case  of  need,  would  stand  by 
them  with  their  property  and  lives  to  the  last."  The  Council  of 
Zurich  answered  the  assembled  host  of  warriors  at  Cappel,  in 
reply  to  their  question  how  they  were  to  act  in  respect  of  vEbli's 
request,  by  praying  them  in  the  meantime  to  suspend  all  hostili- 
ties, and  not  to  cross  the  frontier.  "The  deputies,"  the  Council 
wrote,  "  will  be  sent  to  the  Diet  for  negotiating  peace,  because  we 
entertain  good  hopes  that  through  the  mediation  of  pious  and 
upright  men,  an  honourable  and  godly  peace  will  be  concluded. 
The  decision,  however,  rests  with  the  army,  for  according  to 
ancient  practice  Zurich  is  there  where  her  banner  waves."  For 
this  reason  the  Council  requested  the  army  to  forsvard  their  far- 
ther resolutions  to  the  Zurich  de])uties  at  the  Diet  in  Aarau. 
Zwingli,  who,  in  the  event  of  any  fatality  to  himself,  had  com- 
mitted to  wTiting  a  statement  of  the  object  of  the  war,  which  he 
intrusted  to  confidential  men,  prescribed,  in  name  of  the  anny, 

•  Nicolas  Mnnucl  dctiorvcd  well  of  the  Hel'Diinatioii  in  Berne,  for  Iiis  jrreat 
merits  as  a  satyrical  poet.  See  "Nieola.^  Manuel.  Life  and  Works  of  a 
Painter,  Poet.  Warrior,  Statesman,  and  Keformer  <>f  the  Sixteenth  Century, 
eoinnuinieated  hy  (irnenei^en."     Stnttjrnrt.  1h:17. 


426  RUPTUEE  BETWEEN  PROTESTANTS  AND  PAPISTS. 

the  following  conditions  of  peace:  "  1.  That  the  Word  of  God  of 
the  Old  and  New  Testaments  be  allowed  to  be  freely  preached 
through  the  whole  Confederacy,  and  that  all  alliances  concluded 
against  it  be  dissolved,  and  declared  null  and  void ;  on  the  other 
hand,  that  none  be  compelled  to  abolish  the  Mass,  images,  and 
other  ceremonies ;  for  the  Word  of  God  will  undoubtedly  blow 
away  such  dust.  2.  That  through  the  whole  Confederacy  the 
receipt  of  pensions,*  hires,  and  donations  from  foreign  masters  be 
forbidden,  and  that  all  bind  themselves  to  the  observance  of  this 
prohibition  by  oath.  3.  That  the  authors  of  the  pension  system, 
and  the  distributors  of  annuities  or  donatives  in  '  the  Five  Places,' 
be  punished  in  person  and  property,  on  the  ground  that  they  are 
the  originators  of  the  present  dissensions.  4.  That  'the  Five 
Places'  bear  the  expenses  of  the  war,  and  that  Schwyz  in  par- 
ticular pay  down  one  thousand  florins  to  the  children  of  the  mar- 
tyred Kaiser."  In  his  letter  to  the  Zurich  Council,  with  which 
Zwingli  accompanied  these  conditions  of  peace,  approved  by  the 
War  Congregation,  the  Keformer  thus  expresses  himself :  "  I  am 
extremely  anxious  that  the  proposals  in  question  may  not  be 
treated  with  levity  or  with  carelessness.  In  order  in  some  mea- 
sure to  meet  the  growing  corruption  of  the  times,  and  to  hold 
the  godly  and  believing  people  to  the  Word  of  God,  I  have  been 
compelled,  both  by  word  and  deed,  to  press  for  decisive  measures, 
but  I  expressed  to  the  Council  that  when  I  began  to  be  warlike 
in  my  sermons  they  might  be  pleased  to  give  no  heed  to  it,  for 
my  wish  neither  was  war  nor  bloodshed,  but  the  suppression 
of  the  pensions,  and  of  all  injustice.  Now,  however,  that  it  has 
come,  in  the  course  of  God's  providence,  to  an  outbreak,  I  trust 
in  God  that  it  will  fall  out  to  His  own  glory,  and  to  the  honour 
of  Zurich.     I  only  fear  that  you  may  be  deceived  by  the  apolo- 

*  Tlic  pensions  were,  in  the  then  Swi.ss  relations,  nothing  else  but  the  Judas- 
pay  with  which  neighbouring  princes  rewarded,  under  this  name,  influential  men 
for  the  game  of  treachery  they  played  against  the  interests  of  their  country. 
To  what  a  frightful  pitch  this  mischief  had  reached  appears  from  a  revelation 
made  by  the  French  ambassador  in  Switzerland.  His  king  had  sent  to  this 
country,  from  1512  to  1531,  1,133,547  crowns  of  gold,  to  be  applied  alone  in 
pensions,  a  sum  which,  in  the  present  relations  of  money,  may  be  quadrupled. 
As  the  preaching  of  the  gospel  had  of  necessity  to  combat  this  atrocious  system, 
all  the  pensioners  wei'e  enemies  of  it.  "All,"  says  Zwingli,  "but  pensioners 
arc  willing  that  the  Word  of  God  should  be  preached." 


RUPTUKE  BETWEEN  PROTESTANTS  AND  PAPISTS.  427 

getic  words  and  flatteries  of  our  enemies,  and  induced  to  enter 
into  a  peace  worse  than  war  itself.  When  I  press  for  harsh  mea- 
sures, I  do  it  solely  to  terrify  the  pensioners,  that  they  may  the 
sooner  yield,  otherwise  I  am  very  well  disposed  to  a  clemency 
which  is  M'ith  God,  as  I  hope  you  are  well  aware.  Wherefore, 
dear  gracious  lords,  be  courageous  and  firm,  and  so  we  shall,  with 
God's  h(dp,  lift  the  waggon  out  of  the  ditch.  Our  Confederates  of 
Berne  are  faithful  to  the  principle  of  freedom  in  matters  of  faith, 
and  insist  that  the  alliance  with  Austria  be  broken  off.  Let  us 
therefore  boldly  combat  the  pensioners,  and  we  shall  thus 
anive  at  unity  of  faith  and  government,  and  shall  have  waged  a 
better  war  than  ever  was  waged.  Entertain  no  anxiety  on  our 
account,  for  our  men  are  obedient  and  well-behaved,  friendly  and 
faithful  to  one  another.  Some  "  black  horses,"  indeed,  are  an 
exception,  for  they  are  as  black  here  as  in  Zurich.  Yet  they 
shall,  by  (iod's  grace,  nowhere  drag  the  waggon  but  where  the 
honour  and  weal  of  the  town  of  Zurich  demand  it.  Therefore, 
let  us  occupy  here  our  threatening  warlike  position,  but  be  ye 
wise,  brave,  and  steadfast,  and  so  we  shall,  wath  God's  help, 
attain  to  unity,  and  conclude  an  honourable  peace.  I  hope  God 
will  once  more  set  up  our  Confederacy,  and  this  He  will  do  if 
you  only  maintain  a  resolute  attitude  against  the  pensions,  for 
you  see  how  the  gospel  is  gaining  the  upper  hand  ever}'where, 
but  the  pensions  destroy  everything.  Wherefore  be  a  wall  of 
brass  against  this  corruption."  He  communicated  to  the  leaders 
of  the  diUerent  companies  instructions  hinv  to  act  in  particular 
circumstances  which  might  arise,  with  the  same  clear  and  com- 
prehensive glance,  and  in  the  same  cautious  spirit  with  which 
he  pointed  out  to  the  Council  its  procedure,  while  the  ardent 
zeal  of  an  apostle  glowed  within  his  bosom.  The  extension  of 
the  gospel,  and  the  implantation  and  cultivation  of  Chri.stian 
morality  and  discipline  were  the  objects  of  his  hearts  desire. 
Whoever  knows  the  fidelity  with  which  Zwingli  devoted  his 
great  intellectual  powers  and  rich  acquirements  to  the  service  of 
his  Lonl,  will  not  blame  him  that  he  attempted  too  much,  or 
morc  than  a  single  man  was  able  to  perform.  They  will  rather 
admire  in  him  the  divine  wisdom,  uniting  in  one  man  A'ariod  and 
lofty  gifts  for  great  and  glorious  pui-j^oses,  just  us  on  the  same 


428  RUPTURE  BETWEEN  PROTESTANTS  AND  PAPISTS. 

Swiss  mountain,  whose  summit  is  clothed  with  perpetual  snow, 
we  see  the  vine  blossoms  blowing  and  the  fiery  wine  ripening. 

The  business  of  peace  was  introduced  at  the  Diet  in  Aarau 
with  an  extension  of  the  truce.  The  deputies  of  "  The  Five 
Places"  replied  to  Zurich's  grievances  with  whining  complaints, 
that  they  were  the  innocent  victims  of  persecution,  who  had  been 
attacked  contrary  to  all  right.  Once  more  Zwingli  wrote  to  the 
Council :  "  I  note  well  how  matters  stand.  Now  they  make  few 
speeches,  pray  and  beg,  for  none  can  do  these  things  better  than 
such  people.  Let  us  only  quit  the  field,  however,  and  in  one 
short  month  they  will  return  and  attack  us.  Act  with  vigour, 
I  beseech  you,  in  the  first  instance,  do  not  throw  away  our  advan- 
tages, and  accept  only  an  honourable  peace,  and  one  that  will  be 
fruitful  of  good  results.  For  God's  sake  do  something  brave. 
By  my  life  I  will  not  mislead  you,  nor  yield  an  inch  myself" 
As  the  decision  lay  with  the  army,  the  umpires,  to  be  nearer  the 
camps,  removed  to  Steinhausen  in  the  canton  of  Zug.  Here  the 
negotiations  were  resumed  and  continued. 

The  army  throughout  its  several  companies  was  favourable  to 
peace,  on  the  conditions  set  down  by  Zwingli.  In  the  camp  of 
the  Zurichers,  the  greatest  order  prevailed.  Zwingli  preached 
every  day,  or  if  not,  Comthur  Schmidt,  or  Francis  Zingg,  or 
another  clergyman.  There  was  prayer  both  before  and  after 
meals.  Not  a  curse  nor  a  quarrel  was  to  be  heard  in  the  camp. 
Strumpets,  who  at  this  time  followed  the  armies  in  shoals,  were 
sent  away  as  soon  as  they  shewed  themselves.  There  were  no 
dice,  cards,  nor  any  games  which  might  occasion  ^Tangling ;  but 
national  songs  were  sung,  and  the  men  exercised  themselves  in 
leaping  and  putting  the  stone.  Zwingli's  spirit  governed  the 
whole  host,  and  all  were  animated  with  the  desire  (uni-fervent,  as 
Berhard  Weiss  expresses  himself,)  to  overcome  and  put  down 
the  pensioners,  who  had  brought  such  mischiefs  to  their  country. 
The  Bernese  warriors  also  participated  in  the  wish  that  an  end 
might  be  put  to  the  nuisance  of  pensions :  "  Let  any  one  consult 
your  army,"  said  Zwingli  to  a  Bernese  officer,  "  I  know  that 
your  people  as  well  as  ours  abhor  the  pensioning."  Even  in  the 
camp  of  "  The  Five  Places,"  Landamman  JEbli  was  often  applied 
to  and  in  private,  by  the  common  soldiers,  to  get  prohibition  of 
the  pensions   made  an  article  of  the  peace,  for  many  were  dis- 


RUPTURE  BETWEEN  PROTEf^TANTS  AND  PAPISTS.  420 

f'usted  at  the  overbourinti  manucrs  of  these  upstarts,  who  so 
([uickly  onviched  tlii'inselves  at  the  expense  of  the  common  weal. 
Nor  was  tht're  any  animosity  against  the  Znrichers  here  amon«,r,st 
tlie  common  men.  They  were  in  great  want,  while  the  latter  had 
everything  in  abundance.  Once,  accordingly,  a  party  of  them 
crossed  their  outposts,  that  they  might  be  taken  prisoners  by  the 
Zurichers.  Tliey  were  taken,  carried  before  a  captain,  liberally 
sujiplied  Avitli  bread,  and  ordered  to  repass  the  frontier.  One 
day  some  num  from  AValdstadt  l)ronght  a  vessel  of  milk,  and 
placed  it  on  the  bouudaiy  line,  calling  out  to  the  Zurichers: 
"  We  have  good  milk  here,  but  nothing  to  break  into  it."  The 
latter  tlu'n  brought  some  bread,  and  so  the  soldiers  of  the  two 
hosts  eat,  laughing  to  each  other,  out  of  the  same  pail.  On  one 
happening  to  take  a  piece  of  bread  lying  by  his  opponent,  the 
other  usually  struck  him,  jocularly,  with  his  spoon,  saying: 
"  You  dare  not  cross  the  boundary."  The  Town-Sheriff,  James 
Sturm,  of  Strasburg,  who  was  standing  by,  and  a  witness  of  the 
scene,  said :  "  You  Swiss  are  a  strange  people ;  although  you  are 
by  the  eai^s,  you  cannot  forget  your  old  friendship,  and  l)ecome 
speedily  the  best  of  friends." 

In  this  disposition  of  the  warriors  of  both  armies,  there  seemed 
every  prospect  of  negotiating  an  honourable  peace,  such  as 
Zwingli  with  all  his  heart  desired.  The  majority  of  the  captains, 
however,  and  leaders,  were  animated  with  quite  another  spirit. 
Especially  in  respect  of  the  pensions,  they  were  desirous  of  a 
very  dillerent  issue  to  the  negotiations.  In  the  Zurich  camp 
itself,  there  were  some  of  the  leaders,  (Zwingli  calls  them  "  the 
black  horses,")  who  having  enriched  themselves  by  princely 
hirgesses,  ardently  desired  the  removal  in  Zurich  of  the  prohibi- 
tion against  the  pensions  also ;  held  in  check  by  Zwingli's  power- 
ful intluence,  they  were,  however,  obliged,  for  the  present,  to 
desist  from  their  schemes.  But  matters  wore  a  worse  aspect 
among  the  Bernese  in  reference  to  this  point,  so  that  even 
Nicolas  ^Fanuel  was  forced  to  declare,  at  a  meeting  of  the  Zurich 
captains,  that  for  Zwingli's  demand,  "  abolition  of  the  pensions 
by  'the  Five  Places,'"  no  support  could  be  expected  from  I'erne. 
On  the  other  hand,  the  leadei-s  of  the  troops  of  "  Tlie  Five  riaces" 
found  all  the  gieater  support  amongst  their  partisans  in  the 
Zurich    and   Bernese   camps.     "  It  was  generally  known,"  says 


430  RUPTUEE  BETWEEN  PKOTESTANTS  AND  PAPISTS. 

Bullinger,  "  that  the  pensioners  defended  one  another  with  zeal, 
and  had  rather  seen  the  whole  country  brought  to  the  verge  of 
ruin  than  that  a  hair  on  the  head  of  one  of  their  party  had  been 
touched."  This  firmly  united  party  sought,  by  every  means  of 
secret  intrigue  and  base  calumny,  to  undermine  Zwingli's  repu- 
tation, and  to  weaken  his  influence.  "  Treachery  surrounds  me 
on  every  side,"  writes  the  Eeformer  to  Ambrosius  Blaarer,  "  and 
if  I  escape  it  now,  I  have  alone  to  thank  the  Almighty  for  my 
preservation,  for  all  the  wicked  have  conspired  against  me."  He 
gives  expression  to  his  cares  and  the  wishes  of  his  heart  in  the 
following  hymn,  wdiich  he  then  composed  : — 

"  Lord  raise  the  car 
From  out  the  ditch  of  war ; 
Or  black  as  night 
Will  be  our  plight. 
Our  evils  flow 
From  those  that  sow- 
Base  treachery; 
Who  Thee  despise, 
And  'gainst  Thee  rise 
Insolently. 

"  Lord  shake  off  those 
That  are  Thy  foes; 
But  Thine  own  sheep, 
Guide  Thou  from  off  the  steep 

To  pastures  wide; 
Within  Thy  fold  may  they  abide, 
Who  Thy  laws  keep. 

"  Ordain  that  wrath 
No  longer  burn; 
That  we  to  truth's  old  path 
Again  return. 

These  armies  then  shall  raise 
United  praise. 
And  ever  sing 
To  Thee  Eternal  King." 

It  has  been  erroneously  stated  by  some  of  Zwingli's  biographers, 
that  the  Eeformer  composed  this  hymn  after  the  peace  of  Cappel. 
Bullinger  distinctly  mentions  that  it  was  composed  while  the 
negotiations  were  going  on.  He  set  the  hymn  to  music,  as  well 
as  those  we  have  already  communicated ;  and  it  was  sung  and 
played  in  princely  courts,  and  in  towns  far  and  near. 


RUPTURE  BETWEEN  PROTESTANTS  AND  PAPISTS.  431 

The  unwearied  efforts  of  the  negotiators  were  crowned  with 
success ;  and  a  treaty  of  peace  was  drawn  w]),  which  was  accepted 
and  signed  liy  the  headers  of  the  army,  on  the  24tli  of  June  1530. 
The  chief  points  in  it  were:  "  As  faith  cannot  be  implanted  by 
force,  no  compulsion  shall  be  exercised  against  'The  Five  Places' 
and  their  people  in  this  respect.  Neither  party  shall  attack  or 
punish  the  other  on  account  of  their  faith.  In  the  common  lord- 
ships, those  who  abolished  the  Mass,  removed  or  burned  the  images, 
shall  not  be  jtunisheiL  In  future,  the  majority  sludl  decide  as  to 
the  abolition  or  retention  of  the  Mass,  and  other  rites.  There 
shall  be  no  in.solent  individuals  sent,  none  but  men  of  honour 
and  integrity  shall  be  into  these  lordship.s.  The  alliance  with 
Austria  having  been  concluded  solely  on  the  ground  of  religion, 
it  shall  be  dissolved,  and  the  papers  cancelled.  All  maledictions 
and  invectives  on  either  side  are  forbidden,  and  will  be  punished. 
'  The  Five  Places'  pay  the  war-costs,  according  to  an  estimate  to 
be  made  by  the  negotiators,  and  Schwyz  gives  a  compensation  to 
the  children  of  Kaiser,  the  pastor  who  was  burned.  If  '  The  Five 
Places  refuse  to  pay  the  war-expenses,  the  to^vns  may  close  their 
markets  against  them.  It  is  recommended  to  '  Ilie  Five  Places' 
to  abolish  the  pensions  and  mercenary  service." 

The  impres.sion  made  u])on  the  two  parties  by  this  peace  was 
very  different.  Berne  hailed  it  with  enthusiastic  acclamations, 
and  Zurich,  too,  celebrated  its  festivities  of  joy,  as  the  anny 
returned  within  the  walls  of  the  town,  without  having  shed  a 
drop  of  blood;  "The  Five  Places"  quitted  the  field,  embittered, 
and  in  no  respect  improved.  Zwingli  was  not  unconscious  of 
the  important  results  ol)tained  l)y  the  bloodless  campaign.  In 
this  sense,  he  wrote  to  Conrad  Sam,  pastor  at  Ulm,  30th  June: 
"  We  have  brought  home  with  us  a  peace,  which  is,  as  I  hope, 
honourable ;  for  we  have  not  marched  out  to  shed  blood  Not- 
witlistanding,  we  have  sent  our  adversaries  home  with  a  wet 
cloth  about  them.  First  of  all,  let  me  teU  you  that  their  letter 
of  alliance  with  Austria  was  cut  in  pieces  before  my  eyes  by 
Landammann  Aebli.  Greet  for  me  all  believers.  (Jod  has  again 
shown  that  the  lofty  ones  of  this  earth  can  accomplish  nothing 
against  Him."  Another  feeling,  however,  oppressed  him,  when 
he  thought  of  the  intrigues  and  profligacy  of  the  pensioners, 
which  had  made  themselves  felt  in  an  important  degree  in  this 


432  REFORMING  LABOURS  IN  HIS  LATTER  YEARS. 

expedition.  "  He  was  wont,"  as  Myconius  informs  us,  to  say, 
"  he  had  encountered  in  this  campaign  more  baseness  of  heart 
and  intriguing  than  he  had  ever  met  with  in  his  personal 
experience  during  his  wliole  life,  or  had  ever  read  o£"  In  his 
eyes,  it  appeared  that  to  have  roused  these  wicked  and  profligate 
men  without  taking  from  them  their  sting,  was  a  signal  blunder 
which  Zurich  would  yet  bitterly  bewail.  Looking  at  the  peace 
from  this  point  of  view,  he  expressed  himself  thus  in  one  of  his 
sermons :  "  The  peace  of  Cappel  will  have  this  result,  that  we 
shall  not  long  have  to  fold  our  hands  idly  over  our  heads." 


3.  ZwiNGLi's  Eeforming  Labours  in  the  latter  years  of 

HIS  Life. 

Much  as  the  cause  of  civil  liberty,  and  a  better  ordering  of  the 
social  relations  of  his  native  country,  occupied  Zwingli  in  the 
later  years  of  his  life,  he  yet  never  for  a  moment  lost  sight  of  the 
grand  work  he  had  to  perform,  as  minister  of  the  gospel,  and 
theologian.  Were  we  only  acquainted  with  the  fact  that,  from 
1529  till  the  summer  of  1531,  he  composed  and  published  his 
two  Commentaries  on  the  Prophets  Isaiah  and  Jeremiah,  his 
profound  Treatise  on  the  Providence  of  God,  and  the  two  Confes- 
sions of  Faith,  addressed  to  Charles  V.  and  Francis  I.,  we  should 
have  every  reason  to  admire  his  zeal  and  faithfulness  in  the  study 
of  the  sacred  record,  in  unfolding  the  Divine  truths  contained 
within  its  pages,  and  pressing  them  on  the  heart  and  conscience 
of  the  church  and  the  world.  But  we  know  also  that  he  never 
ceased  his  activity,  up  to  the  last  hours  of  his  life,  in  the  spread 
of  the  Eeformation  to  distant  lands,  and  in  the  introduction  and 
administration  of  evangelical  order  and  discipline  within  the 
Eeformed  Church  of  his  own.  From  Zurich  as  a  centre  the  gos- 
pel continued  to  add  to  the  number  of  its  adherents,  especially 
after  freedom  of  conscience  had  been  guaranteed  by  the  peace  of 
Cappel.  In  the  wealthy  cloister  of  Wettingen  on  the  Limmat, 
which,  on  account  of  its  vicinity  to  Zurich,  lay  more  than  any 
other  within  the  influence  of  the  powerful  current  of  the  Eefor- 
mation, the  Abbot  George  Mueller,  and  the  whole  cloister,  with 
the  exception  of  two  monks,  proclaimed  their  acceptance  of  the 


REFORMING  LABOURS  IN  HTS  LATTF.R  VKAIJS.  \^'\ 

gospel.  Tlioy  sliaved  oni'  the  otbov  their  beards,  changed  the 
dress  of  their  order  for  the  costume  of  the  country,  listened 
devoutly  to  the  sermons  which  Sebastian  Bertli  of  Zurich  delivered 
to  them,  and  shortly  thereafter  they  proclaimed  the  gospel  them- 
selves, and  sang  German  Psalms.  The  cloister  ceased  to  be  a 
house  of  gambling,  drunkenness,  and  debaucher}- ;  it  was  soon 
after  turned  into  a  school.  The  Cony:lmr,  Albrecht  von  Muelinen, 
in  llitzkirch,  mentions  to  Zwingli,  on  the  3d  Augu.st,  that  th(^ 
good  people  there  had  resolved  a  second  time,  witli  a  majority, 
tliat  they  would  alone  hear  the  ]>reaching  of  the  pure  AVord  of 
(lod,  of  the  Old  and  Xew  Testaments,  without  any  addition  and 
bt'gged  the  liel'ormer  to  send  them  an  evangelical  preacher.  Here 
likewise  the  Reformation  found  an  entrance  in  spite  of  the  threats 
of  Lucerne.  In  the  Italian  Provinces  also,  beyond  the  Alps,  a 
1  tetter  day  appean^l  to  be  dawning  since  1.530.  James  AVerd- 
nnieller  was  sent  by  the  government  of  Zurich,  in  the  exercise  of 
their  rights,  as  jfovernor  to  Locarno,  with  instructions  "to  act  in 
a  Christian  spirit,  and.  in  regard  to  the  Word  of  God,  to  observe 
the  orders  given."  He  found  a  Carmelite  monk  in  Locarno,  who 
read  much  in  the  New  Testament,  and  who  from  henceforth 
resolved  only  to  preach  from  Pauls  Epistles.  Werdmueller  put 
Zwingli's  -smtings  into  his  hands,  and  had  reason  to  hope  that, 
with  the  aid  of  this  monk,  he  would  gain  the  whole  bailliwick 
to  the  gospel.  A  Paj)istical  historian  of  the  time  describes  the 
activity  of  Zwingli  and  his  friends  in  the  following  words:  "  A  set 
of  wretched  disturbers  of  the  peace  burst  into  the  Five  canton.s, 
and  murdered  souls,  by  spreading  abroad  their  songs,  tracts,  and 
little  te.staments,  telling  the  people  they  might  learn  the  truth 
itself  from  these,  and  one  did  not  require  anymore  to  believe 
what  the  priests  said." 

Some  scattered  signs,  favourable  to  the  Peformation  among  the 
]>eople  of  "  The  FivePlaces,"  induced  Zwingli  once  more  to  make 
a  resolute  attack  upon  the  stronghold  of  the  Papacy  in  old  Swit- 
zerland, and.  if  ])<»s8ible.  to  raiTy  evangelical  truth  here  to  victoiy. 
To  this  end  the  principal  miuistei-s  of  Zurich,  Perne,  Basle,  and 
Strasburg.  a.ssembled  in  Zwingli's  house,  at  Zurich,  on  the  5th 
Sei)teinber  l.')30.  and  resolved  to  address  a  letter,  drawn  uj)  by 
Zwingli,  and  .signed  by  all  present,  to  all  the  Councils  and  con- 
gregations in  question,  in  which,  among  other  things,  it  is  said  : 

2  E 


484  REFORMINa  LABOURS  IN  HIS  LATTER  YEARS. 

"  You  know,  pious,  gracious,  and  dear  sirs,  how,  by  union,  small 
things  become  great,  and  how,  by  dissension,  all  things  go  to 
wreck  and  ruin.  Discord  and  strife  arise  from  selfishness,  which 
itself  is  a  native  propensity  of  the  human  heart,  and  which  is  only 
then  extinguished  within  us,  when  God,  by  His  Word  and  Spirit, 
implants  in  our  souls  love  to  the  commonwealth.  Therefore, 
gracious  and  dearly  beloved  sirs,  despise  not  our  petition,  but  let 
the  AVord  of  God  be  freely  preached  among  you,  and  let  God 
walk  among  you.  Your  godly  ancestors  have  never  set  them- 
selves above  the  Word  of  God,  nor  forbidden  their  pastors  to 
preach  the  same,  nor  commanded  them  to  teach  to  the  people  the 
Popish  inventions  of  purgatory,  image-worship,  and  absolution, 
as  is  now  done.  By  these  means,  however,  poor  souls  are  turned 
from  the  true  well  of  salvation,  from  the  living  God,  and  from 
the  mercy  vouchsafed  to  us  in  Christ,  to  a  service  highly  displeas- 
ing to  God,  and  to  hopes  that  afford  us  no  comfort  in  the  hour  of 
trial.  0 !  then,  let  the  Word  of  God  be  freely  preached,  and 
direct  your  walk  and  conversation  according  to  its  Divine  pre- 
cepts, as  your  forefathers  have  done ;  then  will  union  and  strength 
flourish  again  amongst  us.  Two  drops  of  silver  unite  as  soon  as 
that  which  separates  them  is  removed.  Eemove  you  too,  then, 
that  which  divides  us  and  our  towns,  namely,  the  prohibition  of 
God's  Holy  Word ;  then  the  Almighty  will  make  us  one  as  our 
fathers  were  one.  Then  your  native  country  will  be  as  of  yore,  an 
asylum  for  all  the  persecuted  saints,  and,  when  you  have  finished 
your  journey  through  this  vale  of  tears,  a  terror  to  evil-doers,  but 
the  hope  of  believers,  you  will  receive  the  crown  of  everlasting- 
joy  as  your  portion.  Herewith  we  commend  you  to  God,  and 
may  He  be  pleased,  ever  more  and  more,  to  make  His  will  known 
to  us,  and  conform  us  to  it."  This  letter,  although  it  was  read  to 
the  deputies  of  "  The  Five  Places,"  at  a  Diet  in  Baden,  remained, 
like  many  a  former  attempt,  destitute  of  all  result. 

With  the  same  apostolic  zeal  with  which  our  Reformer  laboured 
for  the  wider  extension  of  evangelic  truth,  he  directed  his  efforts 
to  the  erection  of  Synodal  assemblies,  which  he  himself  attended, 
for  the  farther  development  and  regidation  of  the  new  church. 
Towards  the  end  of  autumn  1529,  a  meeting  of  five  hundred 
clergymen  took  place  at  Frauenfeld,  at  which  individual  clergy- 
men were  subjected  by  Zwingli  to  a  strict  examination  into  their 


REFORMING  LABOURS  IN  HIS  lATTER  YEARS.  435 

walk  and  conversation,  in  order,  by  a  majority  of  the  Synod,  to 
remove  unworthy  or  incapable  pastors,  who,  for  the  most  part, 
had  got  in  through  the  Papistical  Church,  and  to  put  tried  men 
in  their  places.  The  Ilefornier  returned  to  Zurich  over  Constance 
and  Steine  on  the  Ehine,  at  both  which  places  he  preached.  A 
second  Synod,  which  met  likewise  at  Frauenfeld,  on  the  17th 
May  1530,  was  held,  witli  the  object  of  securing  to  the  ministers 
fixed  and  competent  salaries,  as  had  already  been  done  in  Zurich. 
On  the  18th  December  lo30,  the  Eeformer  attended  a  Synod  at 
St.  Gall,  over  whose  deliberations  he  had  been  called  upon  to 
preside.  Here  the  matter  of  church-discipline  and  excommunica- 
tion came  to  a  discussion,  in  which  Zwingli's  principles,  as  they 
have  been  already  detailed  by  us,  gained  the  supremacy,  the 
Christian  magistracy  being  exhorted  to  puni.'^h  vice,  and  to  remove 
scandals.  For  Thurgau,  where,  as  we  know,  governors  from  "  The 
Five  Places"  alternately  exercised  the  supreme  power,  twelve 
superintendents  were  named,  who,  as  a  highest  court  of  morals, 
were  appointed  and  authorised  to  punish  sins  and  crimes  that 
caused  scandal,  and  gave  public  oftence.  At  St.  Gall,  too,  Z5\dn- 
gli  preached  in  the  Cathedral  to  a  very  numerous  congregation. 
The  peuple  afterwards  collected  under  his  windows,  and,  by  sing- 
ing and  instrumental  music,  testified  their  love  and  esteem  for 
him.  In  April  1531,  Zwingli  received  a  call  to  his  native  vale 
of  Toggenburg,  there,  at  a  Synod  in  Lichtensteig,  also  to  prove 
and  arrange  ecclesiastical  matters.  In  his  native  valley,  as  every- 
where else,  he  was  gi'ected  with  a  reception  full  at  once  of  hearti- 
ness, enthusiasm,  and  veneration. 

In  Zurich,  Zwingli's  Eeforming  labours  were  specially  directed, 
in  the  latter  years  of  his  life,  to  a  transformation  of  social  relations 
to  a  conformity  with  the  demands  of  God's  "Word.  The  Council 
also  deciding  in  ecclesiastical  matters,  justice  required  that  no 
enemy  of  the  Church  of  Chi-ist  should  hold  the  otHce  of  Council- 
lor. There  being,  however,  declared  enemies  of  the  Reformation 
in  this  body,  Zwingli  seized  the  opportunity  of  a  sermon,  which 
he  preached  on  the  sixtieth  chapter  of  Isaiah,  of  urging  the 
necessity  for  the  removal  of  unbelieving  members  from  the  Coun- 
cil. Tlie  effect  of  this  .sermon  was,  that,  first  of  all,  the  members 
of  the  Great  Council  had  to  make  a  declaration  of  thcMr  faith 
before  the  guilds,  and  to  give  a  promise  of  attendance  on  the 
preaching  of  the   Word,  and    participation    in    the  Sacrament, 


436  EEFORMING  LABOURS  IN  HIS  LATTER  YEARS. 

according  to  the  evangelical  mode  of  dispensation ;  next,  that  the 
Little  Council  had  to  exercise  the  like  personal  discipline  over  its 
members.  Councillors  who  refused  to  tender  the  above  promise 
were  excluded  from  office,  while,  from  the  nobility  to  which  the 
greater  number  of  members  hostile  to  the  Eeformation  belonged, 
the  privilege  was  withdrawn  of  electing  from  its  body  a  larger 
number  of  Councillors  than  another  guild.  These  measures  were 
directed  chiefly  against  the  aristocracy  of  the  town ;  the  burghers, 
however,  were  also  made  to  feel,  under  Zwingli's  influence,  the 
effects  of  the  gospel  in  checking  abuses.  In  1530,  a  great  scarcity 
prevailed  in  Zurich,  and  in  the  whole  of  Switzerland.  At  this  time 
the  inhabitants  of  Strasburg  gave  a  fine  testimony  of  their  Chris- 
tian sympathy  with  this  town,  by  sending  a  considerable  present 
of  corn,  by  which  cheap  bread  was  obtained  for  many  of  the  poor. 
The  bakers  and  millers  presented  a  very  unfortunate  contrast  to 
this  generous  liberality  of  strangers.  They  made  use  of  the 
scarcity  to  enrich  themselves  by  shortening  the  weight,  and 
thereby  gave  occasion  to  a  general  complaint  among  the  citizens. 
Zwingli,  in  whose  eye  avarice  and  usury  were  the  most  hateful 
vices,  zealously  bestirred  himself  against  this  robbery,  and  called 
upon  the  Council  to  put  an  end  to  it.  The  Council  immediately 
took  the  necessary  steps  to  check  it;  they  opened  several  of  the 
public  granaries,  and  from  this  time  forward  corn  was  ground,  and 
bread  baked,  under  its  official  superintendence.  Frauds  by  mil- 
lers and  bakers  were  rigorously  punished  by  imprisonment,  or 
heavy  fines.  Usury  was  visited  with  still  greater  severity.  Squire 
Conrad  von  Euemlang,  who  had  been  on  several  occasions  con- 
victed of  this  offence,  was  condemned  to  death,  and  beheaded. 

The  serious  and  earnest  spirit  in  which  Zwingli  impressed 
upon  the  magistracy  the  duty  of  punishing  dishonesty  and  usury, 
reminds  us  of  Peter's  zeal  against  Ananias.  Necessary,  however, 
as  this  severity  was  for  the  protection  of  Christian  order  in  the 
State,  it  did  not  fail  to  draw  after  it  much  hatred  and  crimina- 
tion of  the  Eeformer ;  for  Bullinger  observes,  "  that,  from  time 
immemorial,  the  preachers  of  the  Word  of  God  who  reprove 
injustice  have  been  more  hated  and  blamed  than  those  who  com- 
mit injustice."  We  shall  soon  see  the  bitter  fruits  of  that  enmity 
and  hatred  which  Zwingli  earned  for  his  Christian  fiiithfulness 
and  love,  by  taking  up  the  thread  of  the  narrative  at  another 
point,  and  carrying  it  forward  to  its  sad  close. 


OKIIUN  AND  CLOSE  OF  THE  SECOND  CAPPEI.  WAR.  4o7 


•i.  Origin  and  Close  of  the  Second  Cappel  AVak  ;  Zavingli's 

Death. 

Zwingli's  gloomy  forubodings  as  to  the  consequences  of  the 
peace  couckided  at  Cappel  soon  proved  to  be  but  too  well 
founded.  "The  Five  Places"  had  left  the  field  with  animosity 
bui'iiin<r  in  their  bosoms,  and  renewed  in  their  own  homes  the 
oath  to  continue  steadfast  to  the  faith  of  their  fathers,  and 
to  visit  apostasy  from  it  with  vengeance.  The  interpretation 
they  gave  to  the  treaty  of  peace  was  directly  the  reverse  of  that 
put  upon  it  by  the  evangelical  towns.  Holding  resolutely  to  the 
article,  that  none  should  compel  them  to  abandon  their  faith,  they, 
on  their  part,  refused  to  grant  the  same  fi'eedom  to  the  Evange- 
licals. In  the  common  lordships,  the  majority  of  the  reigning 
places  should,  in  their  view,  decide  also  in  questions  of  faith,  and 
not  the  majority  of  the  burghers  of  each  comnmne,  as  the  evan- 
gelical towns  with  right  demanded.  In  respect  of  the  war- 
expenses,  which  "The  Five  Places"  were  to  repay  to  the  evan- 
gelical towns,  differences  of  opinion  prevailing,  the  men  who  had 
negotiated  and  dra^\^l  out  the  treaty  of  peace  were  called  together 
to  decide  both  questions  in  dispute.  Berne  desired  that  the  war- 
expenses  should  be  first  settled;  Zurich,  that  religious  liberty 
should  be  first  of  all  secured.  "  We  hold,"  said  the  Zurich  depu- 
ties, according  to  the  instructions  given  them,  "  that  the  honour 
of  God  and  the  gospel  should  be  first  of  all  cared  for,  and  that 
the  article  regartling  liberty  of  faith,  for  the  sake  of  the  poor  pri- 
soners, whom  we  ought,  from  Christian  brotherly  love,  to  rescue, 
should  be  earned  out  in  all  its  extent,  and  with  all  our  power, 
and  that,  in  reference  U)  the  costs,  we  should  shew  ourselves 
more  conceding,  that  it  may  be  seen  we  are  not  seeking  our  own 
interests,  but  the  glory  of  God  first  of  alL"  Berne  now  joining 
in  the  demand  made  by  Zurich  that  the  Word  of  God  must  also 
be  permitted  to  be  freely  preached  and  read  in  the  territory  of  "The 
Five  Places,"  the  Landamman  at  Baechi,  in  Schwyz,  declared : 
"Tlioy  would  so  hold  tliem.selves,  in  respect  of  the  Word  of  (J(»d, 
and  otljt'V  thing.s,  that  the  town.s  .should  be  perfectly  .satisfied ; 
only  that  no  farther  demands  were  to  be  made  upon  them  than 


438  OEIGIN  AND  CLOSE  OF  THE  SECOND  CAPPEL  WAR. 

the  present  one  in  respect  of  the  faith."  The  umpires  held  to 
this  declaration,  and  expressed  their  hope  "  that '  The  Five  Places' 
would  come  up  to  it,  and  satisfy  justice,  and  so  act  as  it  beseemed 
pious,  honourable,  and  God-fearing  men  to  act."  In  the  event, 
however,  of  this  not  being  done,  the  towns  ivould  he  justified  in 
closing  their  markets  against  them,  and  in  shutting  out  all  sup- 
plies of  provisions. 

The  Landamman  of  Baechi  had,  indeed,  expressed  the  sen- 
timents of  many  upright  men  in  "  Tlie  Eive  Places,"  bvit  in  the 
communes,  and  otherwise  in  public,  men  of  another  stamp  took 
the  lead.  The  profligate  pensioners,  with  a  host  of  savage  and 
corrupt  mercenaries  at  their  backs,  succeeded  everywhere  by 
bullying  and  force  in  carrying  out  their  objects.  Thus  it  was 
resolved  at  Schwyz,  August  1529,  at  a  public  meeting,  presided 
over  by  Landamman  Eychmuth,*  that  every  one  might  insult  the 
Evangelicals  at  pleasure,  and  trick  themselves  out  with  fir-boughs, 
(the  sign  of  a  challenge).  The  same  party  had  the  ascendancy 
in  Zug,  Lucerne,  and  Unterwalden.  They  continued,  in  spite  of 
the  articles  of  the  treaty,  to  pour  forth  against  the  Evangelicals, 
but  especially  against  Zwingii,  and  the  people  of  Zurich,  a  torrent 
of  invectives  and  abusive  libels,  such  as  only  the  vilest  and  most 
corrupt  minds  could  invent  and  utter,  nay,  they  even  proceeded 
to  acts  of  violence,  so  that  the  few  families  in  Schwyz  and  Zug 
that  were  devoted  to  the  Eeformation,  were  forced  to  leave  these 
cantons.  These  proceedings  were,  indeed,  disapproved  of  by 
many  in  "  The  Five  Places,"  as  a  declaration  of  the  deputies  of 
Uri,  at  a  separate  Diet,  held  in  Brunnen,  proves,  when  they  say : 
"  That  in  many  places  improper  language  has  been  held,  and 
party  badges  carried,  all  which  things  are  dangerous  to  the  peace 
of  the  land.  If  war  should  arise  from  such  doings,  their  help 
could  not  be  counted  on;"  but  this  remonstrance  produced  no 
improvement. 

The  party  of  the  mercenaries  in  "  The  Five  Places"  entertained 
fresh  hopes  from  the  Diet,  to  be  held  by  Charles  V.,  at  Augsburg, 
in   the   summer   of    1530.      They   accordingly   despatched   an 

*  llychmuth  was  also  one  of  those  upstarts  enriched  by  pensions.  The  well- 
known  Cardinal  Schinner  used  to  say,  punning  on  his  name:  '"  I  found  him  poor 
in  spirit,  and  made  him  rich  in  spirit,  but  the  King  of  France  made  him  proud 
in  spirit." 


ORIGIN  AND  CLOSE  OF  THE  SECOND  CAPPEL  WAR.  439 

embassage  thitlier,  which  made  its  appearance  at  the  Diet  with 
great  pomp,  and  was  received  by  Cliarles  with  marked  distinc- 
tion. If  it  cannot  be  proved  that  the  Emperor  himself  gave 
them  assurances  of  help  and  support,  it  is  beyond  all  doubt  that 
the  bitterest  enemies  of  the  Kefoimation  and  of  Zwingli,  such  as 
Eck,  Faber,  and  the  Pope's  Legate,  did  not  withhold  from  the 
ambassadors  of  "  The  Five  Places"  "  a  good  word."  The  Austrian 
officials,  too,  towards  the  frontier,  such  as  Martius  Sittich  of  Ems, 
and  the  Earl  of  Sulz,  maintained  with  them  a  very  confidential 
intercourse.  The  language  of  the  mercenary  party  of  "  The  Five 
Places"  was  accordingly  bolder  in  the  sequel.  They  said:  "  They 
had  had  a  march  stolen  upon  them  in  the  peace  of  Cappel,  and 
had  been  curtailed  in  their  liberties.  Therefore  they  would  not 
rest  till  they  had  regained  their  old  freedom."  Landamman 
liychmuth  declared  to  his  countrymen,  at  a  meeting  of  the  people : 
"  Let  them  be  only  bold  and  intrepid ;  the  letter  of  alliance  with 
Austria,  M'hich  they  were  obliged  to  give  up  at  Cappel,  would 
be  again  renewed  by  King  Ferdinand  whenever  they  desired  it." 
The  ever-increasing  embarrassments  in  reference  to  the  cloister 
of  St.  Gall,  contributed  not  a  Uttle  to  fan  the  flame  of  hostility 
into  an  outbreak  of  war.  The  Abbot  German,  who  had  been 
obliged  to  flee  the  country,  also  appeared  before  the  Emperor  at 
Augsburg,  praying  for  help  that  he  might  be  reinstated  in  his 
rights  and  dignity.  He  was  assured  of  support  through  Martius 
Sittich,  and  the  Archbishop  of  Constance ;  however,  in  his  return- 
journey  from  Augsburg,  the  abbot  was  drowned  in  the  neigh- 
bourhood of  Bregenz.  The  monks  who  had  remained  true  to 
him,  and  who  lived  at  Einsiedeln,  under  the  protection  of  the 
government  of  Schwyz,  hastened  to  elect  a  successor  in  Diethelm 
Blaarer  of  Wartensee.  On  the  other  hand,  Zurich  and  Glarus 
availed  themselves  of  the  death  of  the  Abbot  Kilian,  to  dissolve 
the  cloister  entirely.  Previously  to  this,  a  decree  had  been  pub- 
lished by  these  two  cantons,  according  to  which  the  lieutenant 
of  the  district  for  the  time  being,  was  required  to  swear  an  oath, 
before  entering  on  his  office,  that  he  would  be  favourable  to  the 
Word  of  God,  and  protect  it.  The  monasteiy  of  the  town  of  St 
Gall  was  now  sold;  the  jewels  and  ornaments  still  remaining 
were  applied  to  the  benefit  of  the  poor;  and  the  Toggenburgers 
were  allowed  to  redeem  their  fealty.     Although  Zurich  ihew  no 


440  (JfilGIN  AND  CLOSE  OF  THE  SECOND  CAPPEL  WAR. 

particular  advantage  from  these  measures,  it  certainly  overstepped 
tlie  jurisdiction  it  jDossessed  as  protecting  Canton.  But  after- 
wards, in  the  autumn  of  1530,  wlien  the  demand  was  made  to  the 
Lucerne  lieutenant  to  swear  to  the  decree  above-mentioned, 
before  entering  on  his  office,  and  when,  upon  his  refusal,  the 
Zurich  lieutenant  Frei  continued  to  conduct  the  official  business 
after  the  period  of  his  office  had  expired,  "The  Five  Places" 
raised  loud  and  bitter  complaints  against  Zurich's  autocratic 
proceedings  in  these  respects.  About  the  same  time,  the 
Unterwald  governor  Kretz,  in  Eheinthal,  was  obliged  to  flee 
before  his  indignant  subjects,  having  excited  their  fuiy  by  the 
gross  licentiousness  of  his  life,  and  the  Hagrant  neglect  of  his 
duties.  In  vain  did  the  Eheinthalers  turn  to  the  government  of 
Unterwald  with  the  prayer  that  they  would  replace  the  faithless 
and  hated  official  by  a  man  of  honour  and  integrity.  Instead  of 
this,  a  deputation  of  "  The  Five  Places"  came  with  the  intention 
of  reinstating  the  banished  lieutenant  in  his  office ;  the  latter  was 
seized,  taken  prisoner  by  the  incensed  populace,  and  carried  in 
safe  custody  to  Altstatt.  Although  the  inhabitants  of  Zurich 
took  no  part  in  these  acts  of  self-help,  they  were  nevertheless 
accused  of  it  by  "  The  Five  Places,"  the  Eheinthalers  belonging  to 
the  Eeformed  party. 

At  a  Diet  held  January  1531,  at  Baden,  the  deputies  of  "The 
Five  Places"  made  loud  complaints  against  Zurich's  self- 
constituted  and  capriciously  exercised  authority.  "While  the 
Zurich  deputies  repelled  the  reproaches  made  against  their 
canton,  they  accused  "  The  Five  Places"  themselves  of  violation 
of  the  treaty,  inasmuch  as  the  Evangelicals,  instead  of  finding 
protection  within  their  borders,  were  exposed  to  the  grossest 
injustice.  At  the  request  of  Zurich,  a  new  Diet  was  summoned 
for  March  1531.  At  this  Diet,  the  Zurich  deputy  read  a  long 
list  of  insults  and  injuries  perpetrated  on  the  Evangelicals,  on 
the  part  of  "  The  Five  Places ;"  the  doers  were  named,  and  time 
and  place  exactly  given,  that  "  The  Five  Places"  might  have  the 
less  excuse  for  declining  Zurich's  requisition,  that  the  guilty 
should  be  visited  with  due  punishment.  "With  an  indifferent, 
cold,  coloured  apology,  invented  with  all  duplicity,  and  destitute 
of  all  show  of  truth."  as  tlie  Zurich  narrator  says,  the  deputies 
of  "  The  Five  Places"  attempted  in  vain  to  clear  themselves  of 


ORIOm  AND  CLOSE  OF  THE  SECOND  CAPPEL  WAR.  441 

the  accusations  laid  to  their  charge.  During  the  discussion  of 
these  matters,  deputies  appeared  from  (JrauLund  at  the  ]Jiet, 
with  a  petition,  praying  all  the  Confederates  for  help  against  the 
Castellan  of  ISIusso,  who  had  surprised  and  murdered  a  Grau- 
bund  deputation,  on  theii"  return -journey  from  Milan,  and  had 
now  made  an  inroad  into  Veltlin,  with  troops  put  at  his  disposal 
by  the  Emperor.  Indignation  seized  the  Confederate  deputies 
at  the  insolent  violation  of  the  law  of  nations  by  the  audacious 
adventurer ;  the  delegates  of  "  The  Five  Places,"  however, 
remained  cold  and  insensible,  and  could  scarcely  conceal  the 
mischievous  joy  they  felt  at  the  misfortunes  of  the  I'rotestant 
Graubunders.  All  the  other  cantons  and  towns  were  ready  to 
render  instant  assistance  to  their  oppressed  allies;*  but  "The 
Five  Places"  refused,  under  the  cover  of  some  empty  excuses. 
The  Reformers  saw  in  the  audacious  proceeding  of  the  Castellan 
of  Musso  the  first  step  towards  the  suppression  of  evangelical 
truth  contemplated  by  the  banded  papal  Imperial  party,  which 
had  leagued  together  for  this  object,  while  the  words  and  deeds 
of  the  chief  men  in  "  The  Five  Places"  were  by  no  means  cal- 
culated to  teach  them  another  lesson.  "  Our  lord  of  ]\lusso," 
they  said,  "  is  a  good  Christian,  and  therefore  the  Zurichers  and 
Graubunders  levy  war  upon  him.  If  '  The  Five  Places'  were 
to  render  aid  here,  it  would  be  to  change  a  good  friend  into  an 
enemy."  At  the  same  time,  they  hectored  about  the  favour  of 
the  Emperor,  and  other  foreign  princes.  "  Eveiy  week,"  said  the 
mayor  Honegger,  "  pul)licly,  the  lords  of  '  The  Five  Places' 
receive  letters  from  the  Emperor,  exhorting  them  to  do  nothing 
against  the  lord  of  Musso,  but  to  remain  at  home." 

Such  seditious  proceedings,  carried  on  with  a  rude  insolence, 
and  boasted  of  with  the  most  shameless  audacity,  could  no  longer 
be  passed  over  with  impunity  by  the  Protestant  Confederates, 
unless  they  were  to  expose  themselves  to  supreme  contempt. 
None,  perhaps,  recognising  more  clearly  than  Zwingli  the 
dangers  iiii] tending  the  Pcformed  doctrine  and  Christian  order 

*  The  Duke  ol  Milan,  on  Icarninfj  that  tlie  Confoderatcs  had  sent  an  army  of 
eleven  th)iusan<l  men  to  suceoiir  tlic  (Jriinliuiulcr.'!,  exjircs.sed  hi.s  dissatistac- 
tion  at  this  ste]K  and  undertook  liimself  to  liring  the  war  with  the  Castellan  to 
an  end,  the  Confederates  an<l  the  Grntdnmders  leaving  him  tw<j  thou.<iunil  of 
their  men  in  his  pay. 


442  OEIGIN  AND  CLOSE  OF  THE  SECOND  CAPPEL  WAPu 

from  this  audacious  party  in  "  The  Five  Places,"  which  formed 
a  part  of  the  great  papal  Imperial  league,  he  strongly  inculcated 
the  duty  of  repressing  them,  and  holding  them  in  check.  In 
order  duly  to  appreciate  the  counsels  and  the  zeal  of  the 
Reformer  in  this  regard,  it  is  necessary  to  contemplate  these  in 
the  light  of  the  principles  that  guided  liim,  and  that  grand  design 
which  animated  and  inspired  him  in  all  his  efforts  during  his 
whole  life.  He  assumed  that  God  has  given  His  Word  to  all 
men  for  salvation,  even  as  He  causes  His  sun  to  arise  equally 
upon  the  just  and  unjust;  he  claimed,  then,  on  the  ground  of  a 
divine  right,  that  it  should  be  freely  read  and  preached.  To  this 
he  joined  the  demand,  in  the  first  instance,  for  his  native  country, 
to  which,  he  was  devoted  with  peculiar  affection,  that  all  the 
relations  of  life  and  manners,  as  well  as  of  public  justice,  must 
be  renewed  and  recast,  in  conformity  with  the  principles  laid 
down  in  the  Word  of  God.  Every  barrier  which  interposed  itself 
to  the  free  preaching  of  the  inspired  record,  or  which  limited  the 
freedom  of  faith  and  of  conscience,  must  fall  before  the  power  of 
an  economy  constructed  on  the  basis  of  God's  message  to  sinful 
man.  Breathing  the  spirit  of  an  Old  Testament  prophet,  Zwingli 
recognised,  in  the  divine  Word  alone,  the  directory  for  his  actions, 
and  would  rather  have  sacrificed  his  life  than  yielded  an  iota  to 
any  authority  wdiich  set  itself  up  against  God  and  His  Word. 
He  opens  up  to  us  a  glance  into  his  inmost  soul,  in  an  observa- 
tion which  he  makes,  and  which  he  set  down  in  writing,  about 
this  time,  upon  the  thirty-eighth  chapter  of  Jeremiah.  Upon 
the  words  which  the  prophet  proclaims  in  the  name  of  the  Lord : 
"  Thus  saith  the  Lord,  He  that  remaineth  in  this  city  shall  die 
by  the  sword,  by  the  famine,  and  by  the  pestilence :  but  he  that 
goeth  forth  to  the  Chaldeans  shall  live ;  for  he  shall  have  his  life 
for  a  prey,  and  shall  live,"  Zwingli  remarks :  "  We  must  here  well 
consider  that  higher  necessity  imposed  upon  the  prophets.  Is  it 
not  downright  treachery  to  counsel  that  those  who  desire  to  save 
themselves  should  pass  over  to  the  enemy?  Could  treachery  be 
more  plainly  expressed  than  it  is  in  these  very  words?  When, 
indeed,  God  enjoins  us  to  do  anything  contrary  to  general  opinion, 
when  He  lays  some  command  upon  us  to  do  what  human  laws 
rightly  forbid  and  menace  with  punishment,  then  we  find  our- 
selves apparently  betwixt  the  door  and  its  hinges.     But  the  man 


ORIGII^  AND  CLOSE  OF  THE  SECOND  CAPPEL  WAR.  443 

that  fears  God  does  not  concern  liiniseli"  about  the  threats  of  the 
world.  To  advance  the  counsel  of  God,  whatever  may  happen 
to  himself,  this  is  his  duty.  A  carrier,  who  has  a  long  journey 
to  perform,  must  lay  his  account  tliat  both  team  and  harness 
will  be  worn  out,  but  yet  he  brings  the  goods  he  has  undertaken 
to  convey  to  theii'  destination.  We  are  God's  team  and  harness. 
All  is  knocked  up,  worn  out,  in  bad  order,  but  yet  our  heavenly 
leader  accomplishes  his  holy  purposes.  Therefore,  let  not  con- 
flicts and  trials  tlismay  us;  for  tlirough  them  that  result  is 
obtained  which  God  desires.  If  we  are  not  permitted  to  behold 
the  happy  issue  of  events,  we  have  but  the  fate  of  heroes  in  war. 
They  win  the  most  glorious  victories  who  bear  the  heat  of  battle, 
or  who  fall  in  the  thick  of  it,  and,  in  either  case,  are  very  different 
from  mere  spectators.  Courage,  then  1  even  although  we  nnist 
encounter  many  sulierings  and  dangers  in  the  renovation  of  the 
Christian  Church,  and  the  reconstruction  of  a  right  Christian 
economy,  and  may  not  outlive  the  success  of  our  elforts.  The  Judge 
sees  us,  and  crowns  us  after  the  battle.  Our  brethren  enjoy  the 
fniits  of  our  sufferings,  while  we  in  heaven  partake  of  an  ever- 
lasting reward. " 

Thus  Zwingli  found  himself  called  by  God  to  contend  for,  and 
to  secTirc  to  all  Christians,  the  free  preacliing  of  the  AVord  of 
God,  and  the  rights  of  conscience,  and  to  set  up  in  Switzerland  a 
Christian  economy  in  Church  and  State,  according  to  the  directory 
of  the  Word  of  God.  Now,  he  found,  "  that,"  as  he  expressed 
himself  in  one  of  liis  sermons,  as  reported  by  BuUinger,  "  the 
pensioners  were  the  greatest  obstacle  in  the  way  of  all  good. 
Zurich  owes  it  to  the  Confederacy  to  insist  that  disgraceful 
insults,  breach  of  faitli,  and  tyranny,  meet  with  due  punishment, 
and  to  lend  theii"  aid  in  preventing  pious  and  innocent  people 
from  being  relentlessly  expelled  from  their  homes,  in  defiance  of 
the  prescriptions  of  treaty,  and  all  the  principles  of  justice." 

In  Zwingli's  opinion,  there  were  only  two  methods  of  humbling 
the  party  devoted  to  mercenary  service  and  foreign  pay.  The 
first,  wliich  appeared  to  him  the  most  expedient  and  efficient, 
was  an  invasion  of  the  territory  of  "  The  Five  Places,"  by  mean.s 
of  an  overwhelming  force,  such  as  might  be  raised  by  the  towns. 
with  the  declaration  that  their  only  oVyect  was  to  jmnish  the 
pensioners,  and  to  secure  the  free  reading  and  preaching  nl   the 


444)  ORIGIN  AND  CLOSE  OF  THE  SECOND  CAPPEL  WAK. 

Word  of  God,  without  disturbing  any  one  in  the  exercise  either 
of  his  rights  or  in  his  faith.  In  this  manner,  he  hoped  to  attain 
the  object  in  view  without  much  difficulty.  The  second  method, 
which  he  intended  to  recommend  in  the  event  of  the  first  not 
being  approved  of,  was  to  dissolve  the  Confederacy,  in  respect  of 
"  The  Five  Places,"  and  to  divide  the  common  lordships  accord- 
ing to  the  population.  By  this  measure,  Zwingli  thought  to 
defend,  at  least,  the  territory  of  the  Evangelical  cantons,  as  well 
as  the  greater  part  of  the  common  lordships,  from  the  acts  of 
.  violence  and  corrupting  influences  of  the  pensioners.  The 
government  of  Zurich  was  disposed  to  a  warlike  invasion;  and 
so  early  as  the  12th  May  1531,  the  matter  had  been  discussed  at 
the  Burgher  Diet  in  Aarau. 

The  opinions  of  the  Bernese  were  to  this  effect :  The  conduct 
of  the  Wald  towns,  in  respect  of  the  Word  of  God,  undoubtedly 
justified  an  armed  intervention;  yet  the  powerful  connections 
which  "  The  Five  Places"  maintained,  could  not  be  overlooked, 
as  well  as  the  fact  that  the  inhabitants  were  intrepid  and  bold 
warriors.  The  prevailing  famine,  too,  the  general  destitution, 
and  the  approaching  harvest,  which  would  be  destroyed  by  a 
camjjaign,  ought  not  to  be  disregarded.  In  this  way,  the 
innocent  would  be  punished  with  the  guilty  by  the  war,  which 
would  be  an  act  of  great  injustice.  They,  on  the  other  hand, 
proposed  to  close  their  markets  against  "  The  Five  Cantons,"  and 
to  permit  neither  corn  nor  wine,  salt,  iron,  nor  steel  to  be 
imported  amongst  them,  until  they  should  allow  the  Word  of 
God  to  be  freely  read  and  preached,  both  in  the  common  lord- 
ships, and  in  their  own  territories,  and  until  they  shall  punish 
the  shameless  libellers  and  calumniators  of  the  Evangelical  party. 
This  measure,  they  said,  was  in  accordance  with  the  decision  of 
the  umpires,  and  would  have  the  efiect  of  stimulating  the  well- 
meaning  and  honourable  part  of  the  inhabitants  to  act  against 
the  pensioners,  so  that  the  latter  would  be  compelled  to  desist 
from  their  violent  and  iniquitous  courses. 

Zurich,  under  Zwingli's  influence,  gave  this  proposal  a  deter- 
mined opposition.  "  It  was  unwise,  since  the  advantages  already 
gained  were  thereby  sacrificed,  and  time  was  given  to  '  The  Five 
Places'  to  arm,  nay,  they  were  actually  compelling  them  to  arm 
and  fiobt.     Since  their  good  friends  in  '  The  Five  Places'  were 


ORIGIN  AND  CLOSE  OF  THE  SECOND  CAPPEL  WAR.  44;> 

just  as  mucli  affected  by  the  embargo  as  the  pensioners,  they 
wonhl  thereby  be  transformed  into  enemies,  and  forced  to  go  with 
the  crowd.  A  just  war  is  not  contrary  to  the  "Word  of  God,  but 
it  is  contrary  to  the  Spirit  of  this  Word  to  deprive  the  innocent 
as  well  as  the  guilty  of  bread,  and  to  send  the  evils  of  famine 
among  the  sick,  the  old,  and  women  great  with  child,  who  had 
already  enough  to  suffer  under  the  tyrannous  government  of  the 
pensioners."  These  remonstrances  of  Zurich  were  frustrated  by 
the  general  su])port  which  Berne's  proposal  met  with  from  the 
rest  of  the  Burgher-towns,  so  that  at  length  the  Zurich  govern- 
ment was  forced  to  yield  "  with  pain  and  sorrow,  and  only  out  of 
respect  for  its  allies."  Accordingly,  it  was  passed  into  a  resolu- 
tion, l.")th  May.  This  result  grieved  none  more  than  Zwingli. 
After  the  announcement  had  been  read  upon  the  following  Sun- 
day, which  was  Pentecost,  from  the  pulpit,  according  to  an  old 
Swiss  custom,  Zwingli  interwove  in  his  discourse  the  following 
obseiwations  upon  it:  "He  who  does  not  hesitate  to  treat  his 
opponent  like  a  criminal  must  take  the  consequences ;  if  he  do 
not  strike,  he  himself  will  be  struck.  Ye  men  of  Zurich  refuse 
'  The  Five  Places '  meat  and  drink  as  though  they  were  criminals ; 
rather,  I  say,  let  the  blow  follow  your  threats  at  once  than  that 
the  poor  innocent  ]>eople  among  them  should  he  put  to  the  slow 
process  of  starvation.  Are  you  of  opinion  that  no  sufficient 
gi'ound  exists  for  their  punishment?  AVliy,  then,  do  you  refuse 
them  meat  and  drink?  Depend  upon  it  you  force  them,  by  such 
measures,  to  take  up  arms,  to  march  over  the  frontier,  and  to 
punish  yourselves.  And  so  it  will  Ix'."  These  words  made  a 
different  impression  upon  different  auditors.  Some  looked  upon 
them  as  seditious ;  others  regarded  them  as  a  new  proof  of  the 
faitliful  concern  of  the  Reformer  f  tr  the  weal  of  his  afflicted 
countiy. 

Tlie  embargo  being  once  resolved  upon  and  proclaimed  to  the 
Wald  towns  by  Berne  and  Zurich,  whose  ten-itory  bordered  on 
the  other,  it  was  administered  by  Zurich  with  all  stringency. 
Even  the  inhabitants  of  the  districts  governed  conjunctly  by  these 
towns  and  '  The  Five  Places'  were  forbidden  to  bring  provisions  to 
their  own  rulers,  a  measure  which  appeared,  even  to  some  of  the 
Evangelicals,  to  be  too  great  a. stretch  of  severity.  One  cry  of 
indignation  and  desi)air  resounded  from  the  valleys  and  moun 


446  ORIGIN  AND  CLOSE  OF  THE  SECOND  CAPPEL  WAR 

tains  of  inner  Switzerland.  A  scanty  harvest  had  ah-eady  raised 
the  prices  of  all  provisions,  a  plague,  the  English  sweat,  spread 
terror  and  misery  everywhere,  and  now  their  own  Confederates 
would  sharpen  these  sufferings  by  the  embargo.  The  guiltless 
children,  the  pregnant  women  and  the  sick  were  now  to  be 
deprived  of  the  bread  and  the  wine  necessary  for  their  aliment 
and  sustentation ;  even  the  flocks,  the  care  of  which  lies  so  near 
the  heart  of  a  pastoral  people,  were  to  want  the  necessary  salt. 
The  complaints  of  '  The  Five  Places'  found  an  ominous  echo  in  the 
common  lordships,  and  even  in  Berne  and  Zurich.  It  is  un- 
christian, said  many,  and  contrary  to  the  Word  of  God.  Paul 
writes :  "If  thine  enemy  hunger,  feed  him ;  if  he  thirst,  give  him 
drink ;  for  in  so  doing  thou  shalt  heap  coals  of  fire  on  his  head." 
But  you  prevent  that  from  reaching  the  guilty  and  the  innocent 
together,  which  God  gives  freely  to  all  for  their  support  and 
nourishment.  This  disposition  was  everywhere  turned  by  the 
mercenary  party  to  advantage  with  great  address.  Not  only  did 
all  the  inhabitants  of  '  The  Five  Places'  stand  by  this  party  as  one 
man,  but  in  Italy,  at  their  cry  for  help,  troops  were  enlisted  by 
the  Papal  Nuncio,  while  Wallis  armed  to  spring  to  the  aid  of  her 
co-religionists  in  their  extremity.  All  games,  dances,  and  other 
amusements,  were,  during  this  time  of  trial,  prohibited  in  the 
Wald  towns,  while  general  devotions,  and  pilgrimages  to  Einsie- 
deln,  and  other  sanctuaries,  were  ordained.  At  the  same  time  it 
was  run  to  arms  to  open  the  passes  sword  in  hand. 

If  the  embargo  on  provisions  re-established  union  in '  The  Five 
Places,  and  led  to  vigorous  and  decided  action,  it  operated, 
especially  in  Zurich,  like  some  sharp  and  disorganizing  poison. 
Party  spirit  rose  to  the  ascendant  in  an  ominous  manner,  while 
vigorous  action  was  everywhere  more  and  more  paralyzed.  In  this 
morbid  disposition  of  the  public  mind,  it  is  not  to  be  wondered 
at  that  the  man  who,  during  the  last  eleven  years,  had  carried 
Zurich  on  along  a  path,  dangerous  and  precipitous  indeed,  to  a 
high  and  glorious  object,  by  the  inspiration  of  his  own  daring 
enthusiasm  and  lofty  spirit,  should  have  now  sunk  in  the  gene- 
ral esteem ;  but  we  are  oppressed  with  a  feeling  of  disgust  when 
we  see  him  made  responsible  for  a  measure  which  he  opposed 
with  all  his  might.  He  was  represented  to  the  angry  populace 
as  the  sole  author  of  the  civil  war — as  the  cause  of  all  the 


ORIGIN  AND  CLOSE  OF  THE  SECOND  CAPPEL  WAR.  447 

misery — as  a  demagoguish  leveller  and  overturner  of  old  and 
long-established  rights — as  a  tyrant  like  a  Landenberg  and  a 
Gesslor.  The  burgher  was  made  to  believe  that  he  soiight  the 
favour  of  the  peasants,  to  reduce,  with  their  assistance,  the 
power  of  the  towns;  the  peasant  who,  in  the  present  state  of 
attairs,  saw  his  cabin,  his  unprotected  property,  the  lives  and 
fortunes  of  his  family  in  continual  peril,  was  given  to  understand 
tliat  he  alone  stood  in  the  way  of  a  peace  with  "  The  Five 
Places."  Dissimulation,  mistnist,  and  dissension  increased  even 
in  the  Council.*  The  nobility,  tli£  millers  and  the  bakers,  whose 
interests  suffered  by  the  measures  which  had  been  adopted, 
raised — in  union  with  the  partisans  of  the  pensioners,  and  the 
relatives  of  the  monks,  who,  from  their  nonconformity  to  the 
lieformed  order  of  things,  had  been  forced  to  leave  the  Cantons — 
one  unanimous  voice  of  condemnation  against  the  Eeformer. 
With  profound  grief,  Zwingli  saw  himself  paralyzed  in  his  effi- 
ciency, and  his  work  exposed  to  the  highest  danger. 

In  this  disposition  of  the  public  mind,  Zwingli  appeared  before 
the  Council  on  the  26th  July,  and  said  with  deep  emotion: 
"  For  eleven  years  I  have  preached  the  Gospel  among  you,  and 
warned  you  in  a  paternal  and  faithful  spirit  of  the  dangers 
which  would  threaten  the  Confederacy,  if  '  The  Five  Places,' 
that  is  to  say,  the  party  which  lives  by  pensions  and  mercenary 
service,  should  gain  the  upper  hand.  All  that  I  said  has  been  of 
no  avail;  and  even  now,  you  elect  to  your  Coimcil  men  who 
covet  this  blood-money.  Such  men  are,  however,  the  best 
friends  of  '  The  Five  Places,'  and  the  most  dangerous  enemies  of 
the  Gospel.  You  will  not  obey  the  truth,  and  yet  you  will 
make  me  responsible  for  all  the  mischief.  I  therefore  desire  my 
dismissal,  and  will  look  out  for  some  other  means  of  supporting 
myself."     With  tears  in  his  eyes,  he  took  his  dep.arture. 

The  Council  was  overwhelmed  by  this  si)eech;  the  feeling 
that  with  the  departure  of  Zwingli  a  great  calamity  impended 
Church  and  State,  impressed  all  the  members  of  the  assembly. 
They  commissioned  the  two  burgomasters,  along  with  the  most 
esteemed  friends  of  the  Keformer,  to  hold  an  interview  with  him, 
and  to  endeavour  to  dissuade  him  from  his  purpose.  After  three 
days  which  he  took  for   deliberation,  Zwingli  appeared  again 

•  J.  .T.  Hottinper's  History  of  the  Confederate!'. 


448  OEIGIN  AND  CLOSE  OF  THE  SECOND  CAPPEL  WAR. 

before  the  Council,  and  said:  "As  they  had  promised  amend- 
ment, he  would  remain  with  them,  and  would  do  his  best,  till 
death  itself,  with  God's  grace."  For  a  moment,  Zurich  appeared 
to  summon  up  her  energies  again  to  resolute  action;  but  soon 
the  blighting  effects  of  party  spirit  re-appeared  with  new  force, 
while  "  The  Five  Places"  gave  still  plainer  intimations  of  their 
determination  to  compel  the  removal  of  the  embargo  by  force  of 
arms. 

Great  exertions,  indeed,  were  made  by  the  deputies  of  those 
places  in  Switzerland,  to  which  faction  had  not  spread  its  bale- 
ful influence,  and  by  the  ambassadors  of  France,  Milan,  and 
Neuenburg,  for  the  maintenance  of  peace,  and  for  bringing  about 
an  amicable  settlement  of  existing  differences.  Six  diets,  one 
after  another,  were  held,  with  this  object,  in  Bremgarten;  but  the 
demands  of  both  the  parties  were  so  opposed  to  each  other,  that 
it  was  impossible  to  mediate.  The  deputies  of  "  The  Five 
Places"  required,  as  a  preliminary  step  to  the  entering  on  any 
negotiation,  the  removal  of  the  embargo  in  the  first  instance; 
Zurich  and  Berne,  on  the  other  hand,  demanded  that  the  reading 
and  preaching  of  the  Word  of  God  should  be  declared  free,  not 
only  in  the  common  lordships,  but  in  the  whole  of  Switzerland; 
for,  said  they,  it  is  more  cruel  to  deprive  hungry  souls  of  the 
bread  of  life,  than  to  lay  an  arrest  on  mere  victuals  for  the  body. 
Zwingli,  although  personally  he  was  ready  to  lay  down  his  life 
for  his  convictions,  beheld  with  a  deep  anxiety  for  the  cause 
of  the  Gospel,  that  the  embarrassments  of  their  situation,  and  tlie 
dangers  to  which  they  were  exposed  daily  increased.  An  open 
rupture  still  appeared  to  him  less  disastrous  for  the  Evangelical 
towns  than  longer  inactivity.  During  the  time  that  the  diets 
were  held  in  Bremgarten,  he  took  advantage  of  the  darkness  of 
night  to  repair  to  this  place,  in  order  to  discuss  with  the  Ber- 
nese deputies  the  critical  situation  of  the  Eeformed  party.  The 
interview  took  place  in  Bullinger's  house,  and  the  substance  of 
what  passed  is  communicated  to  us  by  him.  Zwingli  said :  "  I 
fear  that  matters  will  have  a  bad  ending  from  the  treachery  that 
prevails.  The  embargo  laid  on  provisions  was  a  very  inauspi- 
cious measure  for  the  towns.  If  it  be  given  up,  the  party  of  the 
mercenaries  will  only  be  rendered  more  arrogant;  if  it  be  per- 
sisted in,  "  the  Five  Places  "  will  invade  us,  will  involve  many  in 


OinciN   AND  CI.OSK  OF  THK  SKCOND  CAPrKL  WAR.  4  K) 

rniu,  will  l)iiiig  loss  to  the  Cliuich  of  Christ,  mikI  will  tlivttw 
all  into  anarchy.  Nay,  it  is  much  to  lie  feared  that  the  inhabit- 
ants of  "  The  Five  Places"  will  only  be  rendcned  more  inveterate* 
in  their  hatred  of  the  Clos])el  liy  these  measures,  and  not  so 
quickly  come  to  the  knowled<;-e  of  salvation.  We  shall  again 
have  to  suffer  from  the  opposition  of  Popish  })riests,  &c."  The 
Bernese  delegates  promi.sed  to  do  their  utmost  to  induce  their 
government  to  adojit  a  decided  course  of  action.  Before  day- 
break, Zwingli  left  Bremgarten  with  his  friends,  that  it  might 
not  be  known  to  the  delegates  of  "  The  Five  Places,  that  he  had 
been  in  the  town."  Bullinger  convoyed  him  part  of  the  way 
homewards.  I'pon  his  desiring  to  return,  Zwingli  took  farewell 
of  liim  three  times,  boding  that  he  would  never  more  see  him. 
*'  God  preserve  thee,  dear  Henry,  remain  faithful  to  the  Lord 
Jesus  and  His  Church,"  were  his  last  words,  which,  in  the  spirit 
of  projihecy,  he  addressed  to  his  worthy  successor  lUillinger. 

In  external  nature,  things  took  place  which  lilled  the  minds 
of  men,  already  oppressed  with  a  painful  sense  of  the  dangers 
impending  on  their  country,  with  gloomy  apprehensions.  A 
comet  of  unusual  size  was  visible  in  the  heavens  in  the  August 
of  this  year.  Zwingli,  too,  contemplated  it  on  the  night  of  the 
loth  August,  with  his  friend,  George  ^lueller,  the  former  Al)bot 
of  Wettingen,  in  the  churchyard  close  l)y  the  great  INIinster. 
"  What  may  this  star  signify,  dear  Huldreich  ?"  inquired  Mueller. 
"  It  will  light  me,"  ri'plied  Zwingli,  "  and  many  an  honest  man 
in  this  Confederacy,  who  would  willingly  see  truth  and  right 
victorious,  to  our  graves."  "With  God's  gi-ace.  No!"  said 
Mueller,  "God  will  not  let  such  a  catastro])he  ha]i])en."  "He 
will,"  rejoined  Zwingli,  "  He  will,  for  a  confirmation  of  His  truth. 
But  if  the  rod  begin  at  the  hou.se  of  God,  then  m  (te  to  the  enemies 
of  the  Gospel.  Yet  God  will  maintain  His  cause,  although  it 
came  so  low  that  it  is  believed  to  be  in  ruin.s.  I  trust  the  cause 
itself;  it  is  right  and  good;  but  I  trust  tlie  people  as  little  as  I 
can.  Our  only  comfort  is  in  God."  It  was  reported  to  Zwingli 
by  a  Bernese  official,  that  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Brugg.  in 
Aargau.  blood  had  flowed  out  of  the  earth  in  stream.s.  Another 
said,  that  a  shield  ha<l  been  seen  in  the  air  in  Zug,  and  that 
shooting  by  night  was  heard  in  tiie  Beuss.  I'pon  the  P)rnenig, 
standards  were  seen  flapping  in  the  heavens,  and  ships  were  seen 

'     2  F 


4-'0  OKIGIN  AND  CLOSE  OF  THE  SECOND  CAPPEL  WAR. 

cniisiiig  about  on  the  Lake  of  Lucerne,  filled  with  ghostly  war- 
riors. Everything  announced  direful  events  to  gloomy  minds. 
Zwingli,  for  his  part,  saw  the  plainest  omens  of  coming  disasters 
to  his  church  and  country  in  the  general  dislocation  of  counsel 
which  prevailed  among  the  Evangelicals,  in  the  growing  power 
and  audacity  of  the  mercenary  party,  and  in  the  almost  universal 
unfaithfulness  and  treachery  which  this  party  spread  like  a  net- 
work over  the  whole  land.  Once  more  he  raised  his  voice  with 
energy :  "  Be  it  so,"  said  he,  in  one  of  his  sermons,  "  no  faithful 
warning  is  of  farther  use ;  you  M'ill  not  punish  the  pensioners  who 
lift  their  head  so  proudly.  They  have  strong  props  among  you. 
Ijut  a  chain  is  forged,  and  it  is  prepared  to  strangle  me  and 
many  a  good  Zuricher.  For  it  is  to  ruin  me  that  all  this  is 
done.  I  am  ready ;  and  submit  myself  to  the  will  of  God.  These 
people  shall  never  be  my  masters.  But  to  thee,  0  Zurich !  they 
M'ill  give  the  reward  of  iniquity,  and  will  drive  a  stake  through 
thy  head,  for  so  thou  would'st  have  it.  Thou  wilt  not  punish 
them,  and  they  will  punish  thee.  Nevertheless,  God  will  pre- 
serve His  Word,  and  their  glory  will  speedily  have  an  end. 
May  the  Lord  guide  His  own  people,  and  protect  His  Church." 

Once  more,  the  deputies  of  Glarus,  Freiburg,  Appenzell,  Stras- 
burg,  and  Constance,  met  together,  in  order  if  possible  to  concoct 
a  peace.  The  following  propositions  were  to  serve  as  a  basis  for 
negotiations:  (1.)  The  examination  and  punishment  of  libellers 
to  be  committed  to  the  umpires.  (2.)  Those  who  had  been 
banished  for  the  gospel  to  be  allowed  to  return  to  their  homes, 
without  the  fear  of  any  farther  persecution  or  punishment.  (3.) 
Toiiching  matters  of  faith,  all  to  remain  by  the  articles  of  the 
land-peace,  and  everything  else  to  be  decided  by  the  Diets.  (4.) 
On  these  preliminaries  being  settled,  the  embargo  to  be  taken  olf. 
Zurich  and  Berne  manifested  their  willingness  to  accept  these 
proposals,  but  the  ambassadors  of  peace  found  no  ear  in  "  The 
Five  Places."  The  war  for  which  these  cantons  had  long  been 
secretly  arming  was  considered  as  already  begun.  Accordingly, 
the  delegates,  when  they  returned  from  thence,  exhorted  the 
towns  to  prepare  for  the  worst,  and  to  arm.  "The  Five  Places" 
proceeded  without  delay  to  action  whenever  their  deputies  had 
resolved,  at  a  Diet  in  Brunnen,  to  declare  war  against  Zurich 
and  Berne.     The  passes  were  secretly  watched,  thnt  none  might 


ORIGIN  AND  CLOSE  OF  THE  SECOND  CAPrKI.  WAR.  l")! 

pass  through  and  give  the  Kvangclicals  waiuiiig  <»f  the  intended 
invasion.  Thereon,  on  the  9th  of  October,  a  body  of  twelve 
thousand  men  took  the  road  for  Hitzkirch  in  tlie  direction 
of  "  The  Free  Ottices,"  marking  their  path  by  all  the  horrors 
of  war,  wliile  the  main  body,  eight  thousand  .strong,  marched 
upon  Zug  the  same  evening.  The  general  distress  they  endured 
united  these  warriors  to  a  man,  so  that  only  one  resolution 
animated  them :  to  punish  the  enemy,  to  open  the  passes,  and  to 
secure  llieir  independence.  Strengthened  in  body  and  soul  by  a 
substantial  meal,  and  the  sei-vices  of  the  Churcli,  they  proceeded, 
early  on  the  morning  of  the  10th,  to  the  Zuger-Allmend,  and 
took  the  oath  to  tlie  standards.  Their  leaders  exhorted  them  to 
a  courageous  behaviour.  To  this  united  and  resolute  action,  the 
conduct  of  the  Zurich  government  presented  a  melancholy  con- 
trast. Tliey  had,  indeed,  as  early  as  September,  on  the  report 
reaching  their  ears,  that  "  The  Five  Places"  were  arming,  elected 
a  council-of-war,  consisting  of  the  experienced  warriors,  Rudolf 
Lavater,  John  Schweizer,  and  William  Toenig,  and  furnished 
them  with  full  authority  to  levy  men  according  to  the  necessities 
of  the  State,  and  to  employ  them  in  the  defence  of  their  country ; 
but  this  authority  they  immediately  neutralised  by  another 
resolution.  Indignant  at  the  cabals  of  a  party  in  the  govern- 
ment, Lavater  withtlrew  to  his  governorship  at  lvyl)urg,  and  only 
returned  on  the  9th  of  October  to  the  town,  at  a  summons  from 
the  government.  Already,  on  this  very  day,  the  government 
had  receivetl  intelligence  from  tlie  Abltot  f»f  Cappel,  and  from 
pejisants,  of  the  danger  with  which  they  were  threatened;  but 
they  were  unable  to  nerve  themselves  to  any  resolute  action,  and 
.satistied  themselves  with  despatching  nu-mbers  of  the  Council  to 
the  spot  to  obtain  information.  The  Councillors  Ulrich  Funk 
and  Thumeisen  aiTived  at  Cappel,  where  the  |)eople  of  tlie 
country  hail  already  collected,  in  arms,  to  defend  themselves,  and 
who  were  bitterly  complaining  of  the  negligence  of  the  govern- 
ment In  tli'se  circumstances.  Funk  and  Thumeisen  remained 
where  they  were,  to  hearten  the  country  people,  and  sent  back 
to  the  government  advices  that  they  should  get  the  army  drawn 
together  as  sjieedily  as  po.ssible,  and  sent  forward  to  C'apj>el,  as 
the  enemy  were  already  inarching  on  this  jilace  from  Zug. 

Onthr  lOtb  October  tlio  Tireat  Coun<il  a.s.scmbleil  at  Zurich,  to 


452  OKIGIN  AND  CLOSE  (JF  THE  SECOND  CAPPEL  WAR. 

take  measures  necessary  for  the  defence  of  the  country.  Banneret 
Schweizer  strongly  urged  that  the  van,  under  its  captain  ah^eady 
named,  George  Goeldli,  should  be  immediately  despatched  to 
Cappel,  and  that  the  main  body  of  the  army  should  follow  with 
as  little  delay  as  possible.  There  was  a  long  deliberation  upon 
this  point,  for  there  was  a  party  in  the  Council  that  put  every 
iron  in  the  fire  to  frustrate  all  resolute  action  on  the  part  of  the 
Council.  In  the  meanwhile,  messenger  after  messenger  came 
from  Cappel  praying  for  speedy  assistance.  It  was  at  length 
resolved  to  send  Goeldli  forward  with  six  hundred  men  and 
artillery.  This  reinforcement  arrived  in  Cappel  during  the 
night. 

Immediately  after  Goeldli's  departure,  Lavater,  with  the  con- 
currence of  a  council-of-war,  hastily  summoned,  which  Zwingli 
also  attended,  expressed  his  desire  that  a  general  levy  of  the 
people  should  be  made,  in  order  to  hasten,  with  as  great  a  body 
of  men  as  possible,  to  the  rescue  of  their  invaded  country.  But 
Lavater  was  disappointed  of  getting  his  design  carried  through ; 
the  Great  Council,  it  was  said,  must  first  of  all  meet  and  decide 
upon  it.  Thus  precious  hours  were  again  wasted:  for  it  was 
evening  ere  the  Council  authorised,  by  a  formal  resolution,  the 
measure  which  had  been  suggested  by  the  Commander-in-Chief. 
A  night  of  horrors  descended  on  the  canton  of  Zurich.  The  earth 
appeared  to  reel  on  its  foundations :  *  bells  screamed  from  the 
church-towers,  traitors  roamed  through  the  land,  spreading  false 
rumours,  and  increasing  the  general  turmoil.  In  the  morning, 
the  great  banner  was  set  up  at  the  Town-Hall,  but  it  clung  to 
the  pole,  and  refused  to  unfurl — in  the  eyes  of  many,  a  bad  omen. 
Slowly  and  in  scanty  niimbers  the  warriors  dropped  in.  It 
happened  that  it  being  necessary  to  despatch  two  bodies  of 
troops  to  Waedenschwyl,  and  "  The  Free  Offices,"  many  had  gone 
thither  who  had  been  designated  to  the  main  body.  The  march 
could  not  begin  till  mid-day.  Zwingli  had  been  appointed  field- 
preacher,  for  both  his  friends  and  enemies  wished  his  appoint- 
ment, although  for  different  reasons.  Nor  did  he  himself  hesitate 
for  an  instant  to  accept  the  post  in  this  hour  of  danger :  "  I  stand 
intrepidly  prepared  for  the  worst,"  he  liad  written  shortly  before 
to   a  friend,  "  for  God  is  my  stay."     I'ainfully  bitter,  however, 

*  There  was  an  earthquake  felt  on  tliis  night. 


OinciN  AND  CLOSE  OK  THK  SKcciM)  (Al'l'KI.  WAK.  +".S 

^\"!ls  tlic  I'arcwt'Il  he  ltiol<  t'lmii  liis  s])Oiisr  and  cliiklifii,  whom  lie 
had  u  pivseutiiiu'iit  lie  should  iievi'r  see  inoiv.  lint  it  was  the 
Lord's  cause  for  which  he  was  •joiiiu  out  to  battle  ;  and  the  Lord 
hiis  said:  "  Whosoever  loveth  son  or  daughter  more  than  me,  is 
not  worthy  of  me."  When  he  Mas  in  tlie  act  of  mounting  his 
horse,  the  animal  reared  and  fell  backw-ards.  His  friends  turned 
pale,  who  saw  it.  "  He  will  never  ct)me  back,"  said  they  one  to 
the  other.  Hardly  seven  hundred  men,  instead  of  four  thousand 
as  was  expected,  gathered  round  the  standard.  Upon  Myccmius 
seeing  this  little  troop  marcliing  out  in  groat  disorder,  and  Zwingli 
amongst  them,  he  was  seized  witli  such  an  agony  of  .spirit,  that 
he  could  scarcely  stand  upright.  For  a  few  moments,  Zwingli 
was  seen  leaving  his  comrades,  and  marching  liy  himself; 
and  one  of  his  friends,  who  followed  behind  him,  heard  him 
praying  with  great  fervency,  and  committing  himself,  soul  and 
body,  and  especially  the  Church,  to  the  Lord.  Arrived  at  the 
top  of  the  Albis,  William  Toenig,  the  captain  of  the  sharp- 
shooter, gave  it  as  his  opinion,  they  ought  to  wait  till  their 
small  numbers  had  b'.'en  increased  l)y  farther  accessions ;  but  the 
sound  of  cannon  from  Cappel  announced  that  the  van  was  already 
engaged.  Zwingli  hereon  said:  "  If  we  wait  till  the  great  body 
of  our  friends  arrive,  our  help  will  come  too  late.  I  will,  in  Gods 
name,  go  to  the  brave  fellows,  and  either  die  with  them  or  help 
them."  Lavater  also  thought  they  could  not  wait  upon  reinforce- 
ments, as  treachery  was  disorganising  and  frustrating  everything. 
Thus  the  banner  arrived  at  Cappel  at  three  o'clock. 

Here  the  fight  had  lasted  already  three  hours,  although  only 
with  cannon.  The  Zurich  artillery,  admirably  served,  and  advan- 
tageously posted,  maintained  a  great  superittrity  over  that  of 
"  The  Five  Places."  Confusion  spread  for  a  time  through  the 
ranks  of  the  Roman  Catholic  army,  which  was  spread  out  uj)on 
a  mora.ss,  and  lay  exposed  to  the  caimon  of  the  Zurichers,  so  that, 
as  IJullinger  thinks,  terms  of  ]>eace  wouhl  have  been  readily 
listened  to  by  them  at  that  time.  But  the  saying  of  Zwingli  to 
the  Liindannnan  Aebli  was  destined  to  prove  true:  "  When  they 
attack  us,  then  there  will  be  none  to  mediate."  Some  men  (tf 
courage  among  the  Zurichers  were  for  taking  advantage  of  the 
enemy's  evident  confusion,  but  Captain  (Joeldli,  who  had  a  brother 
in  the  hostile  armv.  ami  who  seemed  to  have  his  heart  there  also. 


454  ORIGIN  AND  CLOSE  OF  THE  SECOND  CAPPED  WAR. 

refused  to  give  his  consent  to  this  surprise,  which  vohmteers  v/ere 
willing  to  execute.  A  wood  on  the  flank  of  the  Zurich  army 
was  to  have  been  occupied  by  volunteers ;  by  Goeldli's  orders, 
they  were  prevented  from  doing  this,  and  it  was  occupied  by  the 
enemy  without  difficulty.  In  this  manner,  Goeldli  frustrated 
everything  calculated  to  bring  about  a  favourable  result  for  the 
Zurichers.  He  always  put  forward  the  instructions  he  had 
received,  to  avoid  a  battle  till  the  banner  had  arrived. 

The  Zurichers  held  a  Council,  after  the  arrival  of  the  Com- 
mander-in-Chief, as  to  what  in  the  circumstances  had  best 
be  done.  Some  were  for  retreating  till  the  army  had  been 
strengthened  by  accessions,  but  the  majority  were  in  favour  of 
encountering  the  enemy  where  they  stood.  "  We  must  place 
our  confidence  in  God,  and  not  in  our  own  numbers  and  strength ; 
our  fathers  have  often  by  God's  help  conquered  a  whole  army 
with  a  handful  of  men."  As  it  was  late,  no  attack  was  expected 
for  the  day,  and  measures  were  taken  for  bivouacking.  Goeldli 
received  orders  to  occupy  Moenchbuehl,  that  they  might  not  be 
surrounded  by  the  enemy. 

The  leaders  of  the  army  of  "  The  Five  Places"  also  held  a 
council-of-war.  Here,  likewise,  the  majority  refused  to  listen 
to  any  attack  for  the  day ;  "it  was  too  late,"  they  said, 
"  and  it  had  never  been  the  custom  of  their  ancestors  to  shed 
blood  on  holy  Childermas-Day."  A  practised  warrior,  Governor 
Jauch,  joins  the  circle  of  councillors.  He  states  how  he  had 
found  the  wood  unoccupied,  from  whence  the  Zurich  army  was 
visible,  weak,  and  unprepared  against  an  attack.  He  begs 
for  a  few  volunteers,  with  whom  he  engages  easily  to  vanquish 
the  enemy.  Caspar  Goeldli,  brother  to  George,  here  interposes, 
saying :  "  I  know  the  Zurichers  well,  if  you  don't  beat  them  to- 
day, they  will  beat  you  to-morrow."  Jauch  hastened  back  to  the 
wood,  where  he  found  three  hundred  arquebusiers,  and  four 
hundred  men-at-arms,  with  spears  and  hall^erds,  waiting  for  him. 
With  these  he  attacked  the  enemy  on  the  front  and  on  the  flank, 
issuing  from  the  wood.  The  enemy,  though  unprepared,  speedily 
fell  into  order  of  battle.  Lavater  advanced,  lance  in  hand,  and 
cried  with  a  loud  voice :  "  Brave  men,  remember  the  glory  of 
God  and  of  Zurich,  and  stand  firm."  Zwingli  also  turned  to 
them,  and  said:  "  Cheer  up,  my  noble  fellows,  and  fear  not.     If 


ZWINiJLl'S  Dl'ATH.  4-3.3 

WO  lire  to  suft'er,  it  is  iii'vertheless  in  a  j^ouil  cause,  (.'(ininn'iid 
yourselves  to  (5od,  who  is  able  t(»  take  care  of  us  and  of  ours. 
The  I/^)rd's  will  be  done."  The  battle  l»ef^an  with  great  asperity. 
The  body  that,  under  Goeldli,  should  have  held  the  Moench- 
buehl,  fled  with  rapidity,  traitors  slioutin<^  out  behind  them : 
"  Flee,  flee,  good  men  of  Zurich,  not  one  will  be  spared  alive." 
Thus  scarcely  a  thousand  men  were  opposed  to  the  eight  times 
stronger  force  of  "  The  Five  Places ;"  yet  victory  for  a 
time  hung  in  suspense,  for  the  Zurichers  fought  with  the 
courage  of  lions,  and  the  enthusiasm  of  Christian  heroes, 
willing  to  offer  up  their  lives  for  the  noblest  possessions. 
But  soon  they  fell  thick,  like  the  precious  grain  in  autumn, 
beneath  the  strokes  of  their  embittered  foes,  and  at  length  were 
obliged  to  abandon  the  battle-field,  leaving  upon  it  more  than 
five  hundred,  who  slept  the  sleep  of  death,  or  who  were  writhing 
in  the  agony  of  death-wounds.  Zwingli,  too,  the  faithful  shej)- 
herd  of  the  flock,  rested  among  his  sheep.  He  had  bent  himself 
down,  soon  after  the  beginning  of  the  combat,  to  comfort  with  the 
W(n"ds  of  life  a  fallen  countryman,  when  a  stone  struck  his  helmet 
with  such  force  that  he  was  cast  to  the  ground.  He  soon  sum- 
moned up  strength  to  rise  again,  but  a  hostile  spear  gave  him 
immediately  a  fatal  stab.  ""WTiat  evil  is  it?  They  may  kill  the 
body,  the  soul  they  cannot  kill;"  these  were  his  last  words.  The 
day  had  now  declined,  and  night  was  spreading  her  black 
canopy  over  the  field  of  battle.  The  flames  of  evening-light  were 
dying  fast  away  from  mountain-peak  to  mountain-peak,  while,  in 
the  valley  below,  souls  were  leaving  their  bonds  of  clay,  and 
winging  their  flight  heavenwards.  Above,  the  i^lais  of  (lod  were 
shining,  for  a  testimony  that,  when  the  earthly  light  is  extin- 
guished within  us,  the  heavenly  light  arises  in  our  souls. 

Zwingli  had  fallen  near  a  pear-tree.  He  was  leaning  on  it ;  liis 
hands  were  clasped,  his  lips  niovetl  in  prayer,  while  his  eyes  were 
directed  heavenwards.  In  this  state,  a  party  of  marauding  sol- 
diers found  him.  "Will  you  confess?  Shall  we  fetch  a  priest?" 
they  cry  tf>  him.  The  tongue  which  had  once  so  eloquently  com- 
batted  error  is  now  dumb,  but  the  man  of  G(k1  makes  a  motion 
witli  his  head  signifying  a  negative.  "Then  call  upon  the  mother 
of  CJod  and  the  blessed  saints  in  your  lieart,"  they  shout  to  iiinj 
again.    "  iVo.  /  vill  not  deny  my  tiaviour,"  were  the  words  he  had 


-t'O  ZWl^'ULl'8  DEATH. 

used  in  his  last  sermon,  and  this  decisive  negative,  which  pro- 
ceeded from  a  living  faith  that  Christ  is  the  only  Mediator 
between  God  and  man,  he  still  signifies  by  a  motion  of  his  head 
in  death.  "Die,*  then,  obstinate  heretic,"  said  Bockinger,  an 
officer  from  Unterwaldeu,  and  with  that  he  gave  him  a  fatal  stab. 
The  next  day  his  countenance  was  still  flushed  as  when  he  preached. 
The  town-parson,  Schoen  Crunner  of  Zug,  formerly  convent-mas- 
ter of  Cappel,  could  not  restrain  his  tears  when  he  heard  of  his 
death.  "  Whatever  thy  faith  was,"  said  he,  "  I  know  that  thou 
wast  a  true-hearted  Confederate;  God  be  merciful  to  thy  soul." 
But  the  savage  rabble  of  mercenaries  carried  their  hatred  to  the 
witness  of  truth  even  against  his  body.  It  was  quartered  by  the 
hand  of  the  common  hangman,  burned,  and  the  ashes  mixed  \7ith 
the  ashes  of  a  swine,  that  it  might  be  impossible  for  his  friends 
and  admirers  to  identify  his  remains.*!*  "  Mortals  can  indeed  rage 
against  his  body,"  wrote  Leo  Jud,  soon  after,  "  they  can  annihilate 
it,  and  abuse  the  innocent  even  after  his  death ;  but  the  death  of 
the  brave  cannot  be  disgraceful,  nor  the  death  of  the  saint  miser- 
able. He  still  lives,  and  lives  eternally  the  unconquerable  hero, 
and  leaves  a  memorial  behind  him  w^hicli  no  fire  can  consume, 
nor  flame  destroy.  In  the  body  he  was  put  to  death  by  those 
to  whose  well-being  he  had  devoted  a  whole  lifetime  of  zeal. 
Wliile  endeavouring  to  bring  back  his  countrymen  to  the  w^orship 
of  the  one  true  God,  and  to  transform  their  corrupted  manners 
into  the  ancient  simplicity  and  proved  integrity  of  their  ances- 
tors, he  is  led  by  an  unavoidable  fate  to  the  battle-field,  and 
there  deprived  of  his  life,  by  those  for  whose  security  and  w^elfare 
he  had  exposed  himself  to  every  danger,  and  to  general  hatred. 
Yet  he  had  a  glorious  lot.  God,  whose  glory  he  ever  sought 
and  defended,  at  the  sacrifice  of  his  life,  will  make  the  memorial 
of  this  man  famous,  and  will  not  suffer  it  to  perish.  All  honest 
men,  who  have  partaken  of  his  benefits,  and  have  tasted  of  his 
incomparable  love  and  affection,  will  contribute  to  this  end  accord- 
ing to  their  ability." 

A  great  number  of  Zwingli's  friends  and  fellow-labourias  in 

*  Zwiiigli  died  at  the  age  of  forty-seven  years,  nine  months,  and  eleven  day.';. 

t  Thomas  Platter  went  a  few  days  after\vard.s  over  the  field  of  battle,  and 
found  Zwingli's  heart  iinconsumed  in  the  ashes,  which  was  regarded  a.s  an  evi- 
dence of  Zwingli's  faithful  love  to  his  country  surviving  even  death. 


ZWINCLJS  DKATll.  -i-")? 

the  cause  of  CJod  and  truth  shaicd  his  late.  The  ikiIiIc  iJaioii 
von  Gerohlscrk,  the  Conithur  SchniiiU,  abbot  Jdiicr  of  Cappel, 
ami  two-aiul-tweiity  ckMgymen,  sealed  their  faithfuhiess  to  the 
gospel  with  their  blood.  Zwingli's  friends,  Ulricli  Funk,  Thu- 
nieisen,  the  hoary-headed  Cauneret  Schweizer,  and  Toenig,  the 
captain  of  the  archers,  were  not  divided  in  death  from  their 
common  friend.  Tlie  young  Gerold  jVIeyerof  Knonau  proved,  by 
his  heroic  death  on  the  field  of  battle,  that  he  had  well  learned 
the  lessons  taught  him  by  his  paternal  friend,  in  regard  to  tlu; 
duty  of  fighting  and  dying  in  the  cause  of  truth,  and  in  tlie 
defence  of  his  fatherland. 

Dreadful  messages  of  death  were  communicated  one  after  the 
other  to  the  noble  spouse  of  the  Keformer.  She  lost  in  this 
battle  not  only  her  husband  Huldreich,  and  her  son  Gerold,  but 
besides,  a  brother,  a  brother-in-law,  and  a  son-in-law.  But  she 
had  been  directed  by  Zwingli  to  a  well  from  which  she  could 
draw  consolation  in  rich  measure.  Even  on  earth,  she  expe- 
rienced that  the  memory  of  the  just  man  is  a  legacy  of  blessing 
which  he  bet|ueaths  to  all  connected  with  him.  When  that 
excellent  man  liullinger  was  appointed  Zwingli's  successor,  he 
not  only  cared  with  all  the  fidelity  of  a  disciple  for  the  church, 
deprived  of  its  ])a.storal  head,  by  the  death  of  his  master,  but  he 
cared  with  all  the  love  of  a  son  for  the  widow  and  children  of  his 
departed  father.  They  were  immediately,  upon  his  entrance  on 
office,  taken  into  his  own  house,  and  regarded  as  members  of  his 
own  family.  Anna  Zwingli  survived  her  husband  seven  years; 
she  then,  through  a  gentle  death,  joined  him  in  heaven. 

As  Kullinger  cared  fur  the  church,  renovated  by  his  deceased 
friend,  and  for  his  family,  he  cared  likewise  for  ids  good  name, 
which  the  world  was  too  apt  to  liltel  after  his  death.  With  the 
words  which  he  wrote  to  this  end,  we  shall  close  our  life  (if  the 
noble  Zwingli :  "  The  victory  of  truth  is  alone  in  the  hand  of  (iod, 
and  is  not  bound  to  any  particular  person  or  age.  Chri.st  was 
also  put  to  death,  and  liis  enemies  thought  Him  vanciui.sjied,  but 
forty  ycai-s  afterwards  the  standard  of  liis  victory  was  planted  on 
the  ruined  walls  of  Jerusalem.  Tnith  accordingly  does  not 
triumph  in  not  being  tried;  rjither  in  the  trial  slie  finds  her  confir- 
mation. r>ut  here  faith,  patience,  and  a  steady  endurance  are 
necessary  to  us.     The  strength   of  flie  ('bristian   rises  with  his 


458  ZWINGLl'S  DEATH. 

weakness.  Therefore,  dear  brethren  in  Germany,  suffer  not  our 
want  of  victory  to  offend  you,  but  persevere  in  the  Word  of  God. 
This  has  ever  conquered,  even  although  the  holy  prophets,  apos- 
tles, and  martyrs  have  been  reviled  and  slain  for  it.  Blessed  are 
all  they  who  die  in  the  Lord.  Victory,  too,  follows  in  its  time, 
for  a  thousand  years  are  with  God  as  one  day.  Nor  is  the  victory 
a  single  one,  but  each  combatant  is  crowned  Mdth  victoiy  who 
suffers  and  dies  for  the  truth." 


THE  END. 


INDEX. 


Acolyte  Clmplaiu,  Zwingli  niaiU',  by  the 

Poi)e,  30. 
Adam  and  Christ  compared,  397,  398. 

\ilrian  IV.,  Tope,  letter  to  Zwingli, 
209;  overtures  to  Zwingli,  210. 

Alliance  of  the  live  Papal  cantons  with 
Austria,  23.') ;  in  defence  of  truth, 
and  Zwinpli's  views  of,  401,  402;  for- 
mation of,  402. 

Am  Gruet  combats  Zwingli's  views  on 
the  Sui)per,  145. 

Anai)aptists,  Zwingli  warns  against, 
ISl;  they  pretend  to  found  on  Scrip- 
ture, 238  ;  break  images,  252  ;  their 
character,  and  overtures  to  Zwingli, 
247,  2.50;  their  leaders.  249,  250;  de- 
cree of  Zurich  Council  against,  253; 
disputation  with,  254;  condemned  at 
Diet  of  Speyer,  337. 

Angel-Consecration,  feast  of,  at  Ein- 
siedeln,  24. 

Ajipenzcll,  sjiread  of  the  gospel  in,  179. 

Archeteles,  Zwingli's  work  entitled,  67. 

Articles  drawn  up  by  Luther  on  Sup- 
per Controversy,  and  signed  by  Zwin- 
gli, with  Comments,  358-362. 

Assassination  em  ploved  against  Zwingli, 
85. 

Assistants,  Zwingli's,  at  Zurich,  40. 

Asylum  for  the  persecuted  in  Switzer- 
land, 202. 

Augsburg,  Diet  of,  364;  Zwingli  sends 
his  Confession  of  Faith  to,  365; 
Papists,  Lutherans,  and  Keformed  at, 
366-369. 

Augustine  monk's  correspondence  with 
Zwingli,  206,  207;  its  mysterious  ces- 
sation, 208. 

Augustine  on  baptism,  273;  on  the  Sup- 
per, 355,  356. 

Authority  of  the  Church,  Hofmann's 
views  of,  132. 

Baden,  Disputation  at,  22.5-232. 

Baptism,  Zwingli's  views  of,  255;  found- 
ed by  John  the  Baptist,  263. 

Banquet,  Zwingli  attends,  383. 

Basle,  Zwingli  at  the  school  of,  5; 
teaches  Latin,  and  occupations  at,  7. 

nerne,  Zwingli  at  the  schoi)l  of.  5;  im- 
portance and  progress  of  gospel  in, 
186,  187. 

Binzli,  Zwingli's  teacher,  5. 


Bishops  of  Chur,  Constance,  and  Basle, 

invited  to  the  Disputation  at  Zurich, 

131 
Brotliers,  Zwingli's,  letter  to,  89-92. 
Bucer   designs    doctrinal    formula   for 

Supper,  366-369;  rejected  by  Luther 

and  Zwingli,  369. 
Burgher-rights,  alliance  of,  402. 

"  Calender,  Black,"  of  Thomas  Muruer, 
233. 

Canon,  Zwingli  made  a,  82. 
I  Cajjito,  early  friend  of  Zwingli,  7  ;  visits 
Zwingli,  31. 

Carlstadt,  fanaticism  of,  287. 

Carthusian  monks,  letters  from,  170, 
172. 

Catechumens,  150. 

Chanting,   150. 

Cathedral  at  Great  Minster,  Kefurma- 
tion  of,  112. 

Celibacy,  Zwingli's  ojjinions  on,  121. 

''  Christian  Litroduction,"  ZAvingli's 
work  entitled,  139,  140. 

Chur,  meeting  of  Diet  at,  in  favour  of 
Reformation,  182;  hostile  measures 
of  the  bi.shop,  183;  Zwingli's  letter  to 
inhabitants  of;  its  effects,  18.3, 18.5. 

Cipher,  Zwingli  corresponds  with  Land- 
grave in,  407. 

Civil  power  in  Zurich  interferes  in  re- 
ligion and  morals,  99. 

Classics,  Zwingli  studies,  Zwingli's  love 
for,  6,  386-389. 

Cloisters,  their  refonnation,  115. 

Coctus  Ancnuindus,  203,  205. 

Coin,  Zurich,  I'ri  prohibits,  as  if  from 
sacrilege,  233. 

Comander  forwards  Reformation  in 
Graubund,  182. 

Commentary,  Zwingli's,  "  on  the  true 
and  false  religions,"  dedicated  to 
Francis  L,  206. 

"Common  Lordships,"  213. 

Como,  history  of  gosjjcl  in,  206,  208. 

Communion  with  God,  Zwingli's,  90- 
393. 

Concubinage  of  the  clergy,  121. 

Confessional,  Zwingli's  opinion  of,  152. 

Ctmgratulatir>ns  on  Zwingli's  recovery 
from  plague,  80.  81. 

Constance,  Zwingli  is  consecrated  at,  0; 
pastoral  letter  of  Bishop  of,  against 


460 


INDEX. 


the  Reformation,  65;  answer  of  Bi- 
sliop  of,  to  Zwingli's  "  Christian  In- 
troduction," 144. 

Correspondence,  Zwingli's,  168,  353. 

Council  of  Zurich,  their  appeal  to  the 
people,  145. 

Decatalia,  reference  to,  279. 

De  Falconibus,  his  intimacy  with 
Zwingli,  75,  80. 

Design  to  ensnare  Zwingli,  227-230. 

Diet,  at  Faber's  instigation,  moves 
against  Zwingli,  69;  petition  of  evan- 
gelicalclergyto,  69-71 ;  I'esolves  to  sup- 
press Refo lunation  by  force,  144,  212. 

Discipline  in  Zurich,  162,  163. 

Disputation — on  religion,  the  first,  at 
Zurich,  100-108;  the  second,  on  im- 
ages and  the  mass,  131-139;  at  Baden, 
225-232;  with  Anabaptists,  254-280; 
on  the  Supper,  344-352. 

Divorce,  Zwingli's  opinions  on,  155. 

Dominican  monks  desire  to  have 
Zwingli,  6. 

Dream,  Zwingli's,  146. 

Durer  Albrecht,  the  painter,  333. 

Ebrard,  extract  from  Dogma  of  the 
Holy  Supper,  342,  343;  362,  363. 

Ecclesiastics,  couutr}-,  ignorance  of,  139. 

Eck,  Zwingli's  school-fellow,  6;  chal- 
lenges Zwingli  to  a  disputation,  225; 
Zwingli's  answer,  226. 

Economics  of  the  times,  108. 

Education,  extract  from  treatise  on, 
377. 

Egentius  of  Freiburg.  77. 

Egidius  a  Porta,  letters  from,  to  Zwingli, 
and  mysterious  cessation  of,  206,  207. 

Einsiedeln,  Zwingli's  call  to,  19;  Zwin- 
gli's preaching  at,  28. 

Elaboration,  Zwingli  complains  of  want 
of  time  for,  374,  375. 

Election,  244,  394,  400. 

Emperor,  his  designs  against  Reform- 
ers, 404;  their  alliance  against,  407. 

Engelhard  resigns  canonship  in  favour 
of  Zwingli,  82. 

Erasmus,  his  encomium  on  Zwingli,  12; 
meets  Zwingli  at  Basle,  18;  Zwingli's 
reflections  on  a  poem  of,  18. 

Evangelical  clergy,  meeting  of,  and 
petition  to  the  Diet,  69-71;  persecu- 
tion of,  212. 

Excommunication,  Zwingli's  sentiments 
on,  159;  by  the  Anabaptists,  162. 

Expositions,  Zwingli's,  at  Zurich,  41. 

Faber,  Zwingli's  school-fellow,  6 ;  his 
relations  to  Zwingli,  55;  changes  his 


sentiments,  57  ;  congratulates  him  on 
his  recovery  from  plague,  81  ;  speaks 
at  Conference,  102 ;  leagues  with 
Ennius  to  take  Zwingli  prisoner,  211; 
inti'igues  with  the  Pope  and  Emperor, 
224;  Zwingli's  letter  to,  230;  hostility 
to  Zwingli,  235;  strives  to  disunite 
Reformers,  337. 

Fahr,  cloister  of,  23. 

Faith,  Zwingli's  views  of,  241-244  ;  jus- 
tification by,  in  Christ,  397. 

Family,  Zwingli's,  378,  379. 

Farel,"  letters  of,  to  Zwingli,  191,  192. 

Fasts,  Zwingli's  sermons  on,  58;  his 
opinions  on  Fast-laws,  63,  64. 

Ferdinand,  Archduke,  issues  from  Ofen 
decree  against  Reformation,  235. 

"  Five  Places,"  or  "  Cantons,"  their  alli- 
ance with  Austria,  235. 

Friends,  Zwingli's  Evangelical,  86-87; 
in  the  circle  of,  379. 

Foreign  service,  Zwingli's  declamations 
against,  42-49. 

France,  progress  of  gospel  in,  203-206. 

Fulgentius'  views  on  the  Supper,  354- 
356. 

Germans  look  with  hope  on  Zwingli's 
labours,  87;  Zwingli's  letters  to,  201, 
202. 

Germany,  Zwingli's  interest  in  its  refor- 
mation, and  influence  on,  193,  198. 

Geroldseck,  23,  29;  his  foreboding,  114. 

Glarus,  Zwingli's  call  to,  8;  his  depar- 
ture from,  19;  letter  to  parishioners 
of,  174;  its  eft'ect,  175. 

Goeldi,  H.,  9. 

Gospel,  order  of  the  Council  to  preach, 
55;  monks  oppose,  56. 

Grebel,  James,  executed  for  receiving 
foreign  pensions,  234. 

Greek,  Zwingli  copies  Paul's  Epistles  in, 
16. 

Guild-rooms,  Zwingli  sups  at,  374. 

Haller,  Zwingli's  correspondence  with, 
186,  188;  opinion  of  Zwingli,  193. 

Hebrew,  Zwingli  studies,  384;  his  views 
of  the  importance  of,  384-387. 

Hedio,  his  opinion  of  Zwingli's  preach- 
ing, 29. 

Hesch,  letter  from,  171. 

Hessen,  Landgrave  of,  joins  Christian 
Burgher-rights,  405;  undertakes  to 
mediate  between  Luther  and  Zwingli, 
337;  writes  to  Zwingli,  338;  enter- 
tains both  parties  at  castle,  344;  is 
won  over  to  Zwingli's  views,  357. 

Hetzer  writes  against  images,  125. 


INDEX. 


461 


Ilildogiinl  Abbess,  25. 

Hol'nu'istor  Sebastian,  l;?.">. 

IIoHiiiann  aeeuses  Zwiiij^li,  ()4;  !iis  ile- 

leiice  of  I'opery,  141. 
lloliilays  at  Ziiiieh  after  the  llelonna- 

tioii,  l.")7. 
Ilottiiiger,  Nieolas,  removes  a  crucifix, 

126;  banished,  l.'J'.t;     beiieaded,  -IIX 

214. 
Ildspitalitv,  Zwinjili's.  .^81,  382. 
lliitten,  r'hiili  von,  2()i>.  203. 
Ilviiuis,  Zwiiifili's,  78-80,  430. 

Ilanz,  Disputation  at,  its  cftects,  IS.'j. 
Imafies,  Zwin<rli's  ojtinioiis  on,  127-130; 

tlieir  removal  at  Ztirieli,  143. 
Immorality  of  the  Romish  Church  con- 
trasted with  superior  morality  of  the 

Hef- )rmcd.  l.")2. 
Imperial  tliroue.  elei-tit>n  to,  at  death  of 

Maximilian  I.,  50. 
Imi)erial  towns,  Zwingli's  letter  to,  198- 

201. 
Indulgences, Samson  sells,31,34;  Zwin- 

pli's  opinions  on,  32. 
Innovations  discountenanced,  142. 
Inspiration,  helps  for  discovering  sense 

of,  385-388.  ! 

Institutions    for   sick  and   poor  called 

into  existence  by  Reformation,  120.    : 
Inter])retation,  right  principles  of,  238-  i 

241.  I 

Ittingcn,  cloister  of,  burned,  216;  con-  i 

seijuences,  216-222.  j 

Jerusalem,  knights  of,  letter  from  one, 
and  Zwingli's  reply  to,  169,  170.  I 

Jodocus,  Dr.,  his  opinion  on  ecclesias- 
tical authority,  1.32. 

Joner,  Wtdfgang,  sjieaks  at  Religious 
l)is|)Utation,  104. 

Journey,  Zwingli's,  to  Marburg,  and 
stories  about,  340,  341. 

Jud,  lyco,  his  first  intnuluction  to  Zwin- 
gli,  8;  ap]>()inted  Zwingli's  successor 
at  Einsiedchi,  33;  eleeted  pastor  at 
Zurich.  41  ;  interru])ts  Augustine 
monk  in  ))renching,  95:  marries,  122; 
attends  Di.xputation,  133;  writes  on 
Supper  Controversy,  330. 

I.a.^ky,  John  of,  196. 

Latin, Zwingliteaehesat  Bnsle,  7  ;  founds 
a  school  t'or,  at  (ilarus,  11. 

Lav  preacher.  Burgomaster  Vadian, 
180. 

I^eave  of  absence.  Zwingli  quits  Zurich 
without,  .3.39,  .340;  Luther  seeks  re- 
fusal of,  34 1 . 

Loo  VI  n..  bull  of,  24. 

Leo  X..  31. 


Licentiousness  of  the  juicsthood,  its  in- 
fluence on  Zwingli,  13. 

Ivichtensteig.  Zwingli  insiiltcfl  at,  by 
Schwyz  l)ei)Uties.  178. 

Linth,  Zwingli's  meilitations  on  banks 
of,  10. 

Literalists,  their  false  princi])les  of  in- 
ter])retation,  240. 

Liturgy,  an  old  one,  leads  Zwingli  to  in- 
vestigate, 17;  Zwingli's  on  the  Siij)- 
per,  146-149. 

Lucerne,  re])ly  of,  to  attend  Disputa- 
tion, 131 ;  Zwingli  burned  in  eftigv  at, 
212. 

Luther  com])ared  with  Zwingli,  73; 
Zwingli  refuses  to  be  called  a  fol- 
lower of,  74;  his  encomium  on,  75; 
strives  to  avert  his  excommunication, 
76;  his  temper  contrasted  with  that 
of  Zwingli,  327-330;  seeks  Pai)ists  as 
nm)>ires,  342;  attends  Disi)utation  at 
Marburg,  3.30-370;  his  last  thoughts 
on  Supper  Controversy,  370. 

Magister,  Zwingli  receives  title  of,  and 
thoughts  on,  8. 

Magnanimitv,  act  of,  on  i)art  of  Bernese, 
191. 

Marburg,  Conference  on  Supper  pro- 
])Osed  to  be  held  at,  338;  Zwingli's 
Journey  to,  3,39-;Ul;  Luther's,  341- 
344 ;  English  Sweat  breaks  out  at, 
and  ends  conference,  358;  agreement 
by  disputants  signed  at,  358,  362. 

Marignano,  battle  of,  16. 

Marriage,  Zwingli's,  123;  opinion  on, 
I      154;  Zurich  laws  on,  156. 

Mary,  Virgin,  adoration  of,  26-29. 

Mass,  Rechberg's  o])inion  of,  23;  Dis- 
putation on,  135;  falls  into  desuetude 
at  Zurich.  145. 

Mass-<'anon,  125. 

Melanchthon  fears  the  Conference  on 
the  Supjier.  341;  j)roposes  Pa])i.Jts  as 
nm|)ires,  342  ;  ajipointed  to  confer 
with  Zwingli.  .344-347;  vacillates  at 
Augsburg  Diet,  365,  366;  dies,  370. 

Monasteries,  their  suppression  in  Zu- 
rich, 119. 

Monks,  Zwingli's  opinions  of,  116-118. 

Morality.  Zurich  laws  ujton.  159. 

Murner's  invectives  on  the  Refonners, 
228,  231,  233. 

Music,  Zwingli's  skill  in,  5,  6. 

Musso,  Castellan  of,  harasses  with  hia 
army  Ciraid>und,  405. 

Nunneries,  reformation  of,  115. 

0'>hslin,  John,  23;  ini|irisonp(l,  215; 
parishioner"  attempt  his  rescue.  216. 


462 


INDEX. 


CEcolampad  attends  Badeu  Disputa- 
tion, 231;  takes  part  in  Supper  Con- 
troversy, 330;  confers  with  Lutlier, 
and  opinion  of  him,  347;  disputes 
with  Luther,  348-350. 

Organ,  in  worship,  abolished,  l.'jl. 

Parochial  labours,  Zwingli's,  11,  12. 

Pavia,  effects  of  battle  of,  in  Switzer- 
land, 223. 

Pension,  Zwingli's,  from  the  Pope,  14; 
abolished  in  Zurich,  52 ;  Zwingli  re- 
signs his,  52  ;  Grebel  beheaded  for 
receiving,  234. 

Persecutions  in  Lucerne,  Schwyz,  and 
Thurgau,  229. 

Pfaeffer,  mineral  waters  of,  visited  by 
Zwingli,  77. 

Pilgrims  to  Einsiedeln,  25;  Zwingli's 
preaching  to,  28. 

Pindar,  Zwingli's  praise  of,  386,  387. 

Plague,  Zwingli  attacked  bj^,  77 ;  effects 
of,  on  his  constitution,  81. 

Poison  employed  against  Zwingli,  84. 

Popularity,  Zwingli's,  53. 

Preacher,  Zwingli,  at  Einsiedeln,  24,  28. 

Prophesjing,  introduced  by  Zwingli, 
113;  its  beneficial  operation,  114. 

Protest  against  the  Diet  of  Speyer,  337. 

Pupils,  Zwingli's,  regard  for  him,  11. 

Rieubli,  first  priest  who  marries,  122; 
becomes  Anabaptist,  250. 

Rebaptism,  badge  of  Anabaptism,  250. 

Reformation,  Zwingli's  language  on,  to 
Papal  Legate,  30;  principles  of,  110., 

Reinhard,  Anna,  Zwingli's  spouse,  122- 
124. 

Registers,  baptismal  and  marriage,  in- 
troduced in  Zurich,  165. 

Regius  Urbamis,  his  encomium  on 
Zwingli,  193,  194. 

Reformed  Church  of  Zurich  described 
by  Zwingli,  165,  166. 

Reformer,  first,  Luther  or  Zwingli,  326, 
327. 

Rhenish  towns,  spread  of  gospel  in,  196. 

Roist,  Burgomaster,  closes  Second  Dis- 
putation, 139. 

Sabbath,  its  sanctification,  Zwingli's 
oi^inion  on,  157;  laws  on,  158. 

Sacraments,  significance  of,  245-247. 

Samson,  Monk,  sells  indulgences,  54. 

Salvation,  who  saved?   137,  396. 

Salzmann's  letter  to  Zwingli,  83. 

Schinner,  M.,  his  rise,  influence,  and 
overtures  to  Zwingli,  14. 

Schucker,  Anabaptist,  fratricide  coni- 
iiiitted  by,  285. 


Scriptures,  dissemination  of,  in  mother 
tongue,  173. 

Sebilla,  P.,  Zwingli's  letter  to,  203-205. 

Seneca's  faith  contrasted  by  Zwingli 
with  the  Pope's,  396,  397.  ' 

Shortsightedness,  Zwingli's,  127. 

Singing,  Congregational,  150. 

Smalkald,  League  of,  compared  with 
"  Christian  Burgher  rights,"  411. 

Speyer,  Diet  at,  condemns  Anabaptists 
and  Sacramentalists,  337. 

Spiritual  and  temporal  powers  com- 
bined, 161  ;  spiritual  generalship 
manifested  by  Zwingli,  237,  238. 

St.  Gall,  Cloister  of,  apple  of  discord  to 
parties,  414,  415. 

Stillstand,  Court  of,  160. 

Stories,  Swiss  and  Biblical,  their  influ- 
ence on  Zwingli,  3. 

Studies,  ZAvingli's,  383-390. 

Suabia,  Zwingli's  influence  in,  193. 

Supper,  the  Loi'd's,  proposed  to  be  in- 
troduced, 141  ;  first  celebrated  in 
Zurich,  146-149;  Luther  on,  286-305. 

Synods,  introduced  in  Zurich,  163-165. 

Tschudis  the,  pupils  of  Zwingli,  11-33. 

Temptations,  Zwingli  exposed  to,  13,  14. 

Theses,  Zwingli  publishes  his,  109. 

Toggenburg,  Zwingli's  native  vale,  1 ; 
spread  of  gospel  in,  and  Zwingli's  let- 
ter to  inhabitants  of,  175-178. 

"  Twelve  Places"  move  Zurich  to  depose 
Zwingli,  214. 

Uncle,  Zwingli's,  Dean  of  Wesen,  1-5. 
Union,  attempts  at,  between  Lutherans 

and  Zwinglians,  335-372. 
Valla  first  made  the  Bible  known   at 

the  era  of  the  Reformation,  326. 
"Venice,  request  to,  to  join  Protestant 

Alliance,  and  result  of,  408. 
Vienna,  Zwingli  at  the  High  School  of,  6. 

War,   Zurich   engaged  in,  against  the 

French,    in   Lombardy,    15;  Cappel, 

437-458. 
Wattenwyl,    Margaretha    Von,    letter 

from,  169;  Provost  Von,  187. 
Werner,  Steiner,  letter  from  Zwingli  to, 

on  the  infatuation  of  the  Swiss,  236. 
Wirths,  the  three,  arrested,  and  Hans 

and  John  executed,  217-221. 
Wittenlmch,  Zwingli's  instructor  in  the 

Woi"d  of  God,  7;  his  pi'ediction,  7. 
Woelflins,    the,    Zwingli's    masters    at 

Berne,  4. 

Zug,  Diet  at,  requests  Zurich  to  sup)n-ess 
Reformation,  214,  215. 


THEOLOGICAL     WORKS 

PIHLISHKI)    »V 

T.  AND  T.   CLAUK, 

38,     GEORGE     STREET,     EDINBURGH. 

BENGEL'S  GNOMON  OF  THE  NEW  TESTAMENT. 
Messrs  Clauk  are  happv  to  announce  that  tlic  .onipletion  of  the  Translation 
of  SgelIs  now  read?:  The  difficulty  of  the  translation,  the  great  addu.ous 
in  the  way  of  Notes  l.v'the  Editor  and  Translators,  (greatly  increasing  the  value 
of  the  hook,)  and  their  extreme  desire  that  the  work  should  be,  in  all  respects 
as  perfect  as  possible,  must  be  their  excuse  for  the  delay  in  pubhslung.  Ihe} 
tnAt  however,  that  the  result  of  the  laborious  exertions  of  the  gentlemen 
en.'aL'ed  on  the  book  will  be  to  prove  that  Bengel  can  be  translated  into  l-.ng- 
lish.  and  that  in  a  thorough  and  scholar-like  manner,  retaining,  as  tar  as  is  i)rac- 
ticable,  the  critical  unity  of  the  original. 

The  Translation  is  comprised  in  Five  Volumes  Octavo,  of  (on  an  average) 
f'lillu  bbO  iHiues  ench.  y       .  or 

Subscription,  31s.  6d..  j,ni/ahfe  in  advance,  or  free  hy  post,  J5s. 
•  *  The  Subscription  List  will  be  closed  in  a  short  time,  when  the  book  wil 
he  sold  in  the  regular  wav  at  a  much  increased  price.  The  great  outlay  incurred 
by  the  rublishers.  from  the  nature  of  the  work,  and  from  their  desire  to  make  it, 
in  everv  respect,  as  perfect,  complete,  and  accurate  as  possible,  would  have  jus- 
tified a"  subscription  price  of  double  a  guinea  and  a  half,  and  it  is  only  bya  vcrj 
large  demand  that  they  can  ever  hope  to  be  remunerated.  It  is  requested  tliat 
the  Subscriptions  may  be  remitted  as  early  as  possible. 

I'he  whole  work  is  issued  under  the  Editorship  of  the  Rev.  Andkew  K. 
Fausset  M  a.,  late  University  and  Queen's  Scholar,  and  Senior  Classical  anrt 
Gold  Medalist,  Trinity  College,  Dublin,  Editor  of  Homer's  Iliad,  Livy,  and 
Terence. 

••We  are  heartily  kU<\  that  this  Important  work,  of  an  English  Transition  of  Bcncels  Gnomon, 
h.»  not  only  be^n  faidy  starte.l,  but  has  been  succe^fully  con^.k-teU.  BenRel  .  '^^";'-"  l"'^  »'X'' 
been  hel.l  hi  the  hit'hest  estimation  by  all  competent  judges,  as  presentmK  a  ^e^y  remarkable 
5?^Sab  i^exan.pk.L  con>bination  of  leaminjc.  Bagacity.  critical  tact,  evanKcllcaJ  ""c  "n.  «"^ 
ter»enc«  nn-l  con.len.-mtion  of  style.  Us  powing  popularity  in  Germany  ^  ke  tl  e  m-  'l«r»y  of 
C*lvln-«  Commentary  on  the  New  Testament,  as  edited  by  Tholuck  on  ■  of  tl  e  ^e.^  best  s  giis  of 
the  times.  •  •  •  •  The  entenMisinc  Publisher*  have  secured,  for  this  purpose  the  b-n  1cm 
of^T^l  accomplishe.1  and  thoroughly  qualitied  scholar^  .^'';J'J^'**"^lTfX^Cmnm?n 
Dublin,  art.  as  general  Editor  and  Superintendot,  and  undert.ikcs  the  t^ii"^'"/' ™  °['^^  BamUner 
taiT  ui.on  the  (i.wiK'.H  of  Mark.  Luke,  .lohn,  and  A'-ts  of  the  Apnstiea.  The  Ue%.  Jaroea  Bandmel, 
o"  W.  ham  V-olleL  ■,  Oxford,  ha.,  translated  Bcngels  General  Preface,  and  his  Commentar)-  upon 
MatllK w-TuoM-eL  The  Kcv.  Dr.  James  Brvce,  late  of  Aberdeen,  has  translated  the  portion  upon 
the  Epistles  to  the  Uoman.,  and  Corinthians,  and  ha.s  undertaken  the  vest  of  ^ ''°' *  .^l!^'}"'^,,  X 
Uov  l.r  netcher  of  W  imbome  ha.s  executed  the  translation  of  the  remainder  of  the  «oik,  on  the 
Cath..lic  Ki.istles.  and  the  Apocalypse.' —A>«»|  linluli  and  Fureign  FrnngeUcal  htvieir  Apnl  l^». 
"There  are  a-*dev,,„t  Itu.lems  of  the  Rlble  who  have  not  long  held  Bengel  In  the  h.ghMt 
ctlmatlon.  nav.  revered  and  loved  him.     It  was  not,  however,  without  '«'!";:;«W;;'\^"*'''"  ^^^     ^"^1^ 

r ..i..„  V.  ,ti,  v,,,ii.h  readers  that  we  saw  the  announcement  of  a  translation  of  his  work.     «  e 

f  .  es,  terse-  and  condinsi'd  as  they  are.  would  neccs.sarily  lose  much  of  their 

,  hy  being  clothed    in  another  garb.     lUit  wc  coiifcs,s.  gladly   t<)  a  sun-osc  at 

•  ..^b.v.'  irliicvedlnpreservingsomuchofthesiilritofthcoriginal.      » c  arc 

;  ,.nt  is  executeil  in  the  most  scholarlikc  and  able  manner.     The 

,  Mlthful  and  perspicuous.     Its  publication  will,  we  are  confident. 

ilie  d.roiit  study  of  the  Bilde.  and  at  the  same  lime  prove  one  of 

;;  ;  tieg»tiv.il  ttiils.    The  •getting  up'   of  those  volumes,  combined  with  their 

-.  cannot  fall,  we  should  hoiw,  to  commnud  for  them  a  Urge  sale,  —bclfeue 

'",.:•".        ,  ,     ,   I,    „,.„  ih.  and  enrlchc<l. 

""^  ""!';'""""   'r  \'  ..mmendlttoall 

moreover,  with  manv  valii  . 


ol    til 


ires.  " — Church  of 


iiportance.  (^lUv  suirtJilnlng  the  merited  celebrity  of  it»  leanicd 
'       , Mian  iitndcnf  for  the  ministry,  for  f he  Christian  i«wtor,  and  for 
Hif  UI«>r.oiu.  .».,uuci  into  tiic  mind  of  God  In  wcred  Scripture    -rAru/i-m    lli/»<-«,  Aur.  |S..,. 


"  The  translation  of  the  '  Gnomon'  into  English  will  be  hailed  as  a  common  boon  to  the  careful 
student  of  Holy  Scripture.  In  this  noble  work,  which  is  beautifully  got  up,  the  publishers  have 
laid  all  denominations  of  Christians  under  a  deep  obligation,  and  we  hope  their  spirited  effort, 
made  at  great  expense  to  thcmsches.  will  be  duly  appreciated  and  amply  rewarded  by  an  extensive 
sale  of  these  most  valuable  ami  iuipdrtant  vohiincs." — Mi'thoiliU  Xew  Coiine.iion  Magazine. 

"  The  whole  work  is  executed  in  the  best  taste,  and  the  rising  clergy  of  Great  Britain  will 
scarcely  show  themselves  so  lukewarm,  or  so  devoid  of  good  judgment,  as  not  to  possess  them- 
selves of  one  of  the  very  best  conrmentaries  on  the  New  Testament  now  to  be  found  in  our 
language." — Christian  Times. 

For  the  convenience  of  such  as  maij  wish  only  a  portion  of  the  Commentary,  the 
volumes  are  sold  separately  at  8s.  &d.  each,  {except  Vol.  II.,  \Qs.  6c/.) 

Vol.  I.,  Introduction,  Mattliew,  Mark ;  Vol.  II.,  Luke,  John,  Acts ;  Vol.  III., 
Romans,  Corinthians ;  Vol.  IV.,  Galatians  to  Hehrews ;  Vol.  V.,  James  to  the 
end. 


Just  published,  in  Crown  8vo,  Price  4s.  6il.  cloth, 

A  PLEA  FOR  THE  WAYS   OF  GOD  TO  MAN; 

Being  an  attempt  to  Vindicate  the  Moral  Government  of  the  World.  By 
William  Fleming,  D.D.,  Professor  of  Moral  Philosophy  in  the  University  of 
Glasgow. 

"  This  publication  is  wortliy  of  the  name  it  bears,  and  the  University  with  which  its  author  is 
connected,  and  is  one  of  the  most  valuable  that  has  issued  from  any  of  the  Scottish  Universities 
for  many  years.  The  book,  as  a  whole,  is  worthy  of  standing  side  byside  with  Butler's  Analogy." — 
British  Standard. 

"  Those  who  read  the  book  will  have  no  hesitation  in  declaring  that  the  several  subjects  indicated 
in  it  are  treated  with  great  skill  and  ability,  and,  generally  speaking,  successfully."— G/asf/o?/! 
Courier. 

"  Dr.  Fleming's  book  is  of  a  philosophical  nature;  having  laid  down  and  \'indicated  the  principles 
on  which  his  argument  is  based — and  this  he  has  done  in  a  clear  and  unpretending  way — he 
descends  from  the  controverted  topics  to  the  serener  region  of  contemplation,  and  admiration 
strikes  us  as  rendering  his  work  no  unmeet  companion  for  the  quiet  hour  of  reflection,  or  for  the 
chamber  of  distress.  Reason  and  Revelation  are  seen  to  be  in  beautiful  hannony;  and  it  is  his 
aim  to  show  that  while  clouds,  engendered  by  earthly  vapours,  may  descend  around  the  sufferer's 
head,  they  are  not  wholly  untinged  by  a  reflected  radiance,  earth-born  as  they  are,  but  shall  soon 

be  dispersed  by  the  dawn  of  the  Sun  of  Righteousness — the  breaking  of  the  eternal  day 

Our  exhausted  space  constrains  us  abruptly  to  break  off.  We  can  only  say  that  Dr.  Fleming's 
book  is  not  likely  to  be  the  less  usefid,  that  it  is  free  from  the  'jargon  of  philosophy ;'  that  its 
statements  are  distinct  and  clear ;  and  that,  on  tit  occasions,  the  author  rises  with  his  subject,  and 
addresses  the  reader  in  a  strain  of  chastened  and  persuasive  eloquence.  In  regard  to  lucidness  of 
thought  and  arrangement,  and  correctness  of  expression,  his  book  may  be  advantageously  read  by 
asi)irant  teachers  of  theology  and  expounders  of  Scripture." — M^PhaiVs  Journal. 

"  This  volume  is  executed  in  a  learned,  pious,  and  thoughtful  manner." — Clerical  Journal. 


Just  Published,  in  Medium  Svo,  Price  10s.  6d.,  cloth, 

A  MANUAL  OF  CHURCH  HISTORY. 

By  Henrt  E.  F.  Guericke,  Doctor  and  Professor  of  Theology  in  Halle.  Trans- 
lated from  the  German,  by  William  G.  T.  Shedd,  Professor  in  Andover 
Theological  Seminary. 

"Here  is  a  Manual  of  Church  History  which  may  be  confidently  recommended,  without  reserve 
or  qualification,  to  students  belonging  to  all  evangelical  churches.  Guericke  is  thoroughly  ortho- 
dox. As  compareil  with  Hase,  whose  manual — scientifically  and  artistically  the  very  best  of  all 
manuals  of  church  history — we  recently  introduced  and  warmly  commended  to  our  readers,  it  may 
briefly  be  said,  that  Guericke's  evangelical  belief  and  feeling  give  him  a  more  lively  and  appreciative 
interest  in  the  hiternal  history  of  the  Church — that  he  devotes  more  attention  to  the  development 
of  doctrines — and  that  he  presents  more  perfectly  the  range  of  thought  and  substance  of  opinion 
distinguishing  the  works  of  the  principal  writers  in  successive  ages  of  the  Church. 

"  We  rejoice  in  the  appearance  of  this  volume,  and  heartily  thank  Professor  Shedd  for  it.  It  is 
no  mere  literal  rendering  of  the  original;  if  it  liad  been,  it  would,  as  many  competent  judges 
declare,  have  been  confused  in  an-angement  of  the  matter,  and  most  cumbrous  in  style  ;  but  Pro- 
fessor Shedd  has  wisely  translated  with  freedom,  and  has  improved  the  structure  of  the  work." — 
.Nonconformist,  Sept.  2,  1857. 

"  The  Manual  of  Professor  Guericke,  which  has  just  been  pioduced  in  this  country  in  an  English 
dress,  is  a  valuable  attempt  to  compel  the  theological  student  to  take  something  more  then  a  cur- 
sory view  of  the  earlier  centuries  of  our  religion." — Literary  Churchman. 

"  We  are  glad  that  a  Manual  of  Church  History  has  appeared,  which  exhibits  at  once  undoubted 
orthodoxy,  and  that  grasp  of  mind  which  is  alone  capable  of  treating  such  a  suliject  with  a  Imni- 
nous  and  lively  brevity.'' — Clerical  Journal. 


i^  11  r  li  0 

PUBLISH  KI)  BV 

T.  c^  T.  CLARK,    BOOKSELLERS, 

38  GEORGE    STREET,  EDINBURGH. 


CLARKS'    FOREIGN   THEOLOGICAL   LIBRARY. 


FOUR  LARGE  VOLUMES  IN  DE.VIY  8vo,  FOR  ONE  POUND  PER  ANNUM. 


M::ssu9  Clark  be<;  respectfully  to  invito  the  attention  of  the  clergy  and  intel- 
ligent liity  to  their  Forkiom  Thkolooical  Library.      Tiiey  tru^t  to  receive  a  con- 
tinuation of  the  support  hitherto  so  liberally  bestowed  on  them.      The  following 
works  conipris':"  the  Series,  and  Sub-cribers  I'rom   the  commencement  are  still  re 
ceived  on  remitting  Eight  Guinkas  anp  a  half,  which  maybe  paid  in  instalments. 

The  prices  to  non  subscribers  a7'e  placed  within  parentlieses. 

For  Prospectus  of  Ni;w  and  Improved  Series,  see  preceding  Circidar. 

For  the  convenience  of  those  wishing  to  subscribe  by  instalments,  the  Volumes 
published  during  the  respective  years  are  as  follow:  — 


First  Ytar 
Hengstenberg  on  P»alm3,  vols.  1  and  2. 
Hag^'iib  icl),  vol    1. 
Gieseler,  vol.  I. 

Srcond  Tear. 
Ol-iliau^en,  vol.  1. 
Ha;;tMibacli,  vol    2. 
Noauder,  vols.  1  and  1. 

Thir,1  Y.nr. 
Giosclcr,  vol.  '2. 
Ol-liausen,  viil  2. 
Neandor,  vol  .'5. 
Hengstenber,'  on  Psalms,  vol.  .3. 

Fourth  Ye-ir. 
OUhauBcn  on  RDniuns. 
N^aniler,  vols.  4  and  5. 
Olshauscii,  vol.  3. 


Fifth   Year. 
Neander,  vol.  6. 
Havoriiick  on  Pentateuch. 
OKliausen,  vol.  4. 
Oliihausen  ou  Corinthians. 

Siilh  Year. 
Olshausen  on  Gaiatians,  &c. 
Hengstenberg  on  Revelation,  vol.  1. 
Olshausen  on  Philippians,  &.c. 
Neander,  vol.  7. 

i^cTi  nth   Year. 
Neander,  vol.  8. 

Hengstenberg  on  Revelation,  vol  2. 
Muller  on  Sin,  vol.  I . 
Havernick's  General  Introduction. 

Eiyhlh  Year. 
Muller  on  Sin,  vol.  2. 
Gieseler,  vols.  3  and  4. 
Kbrard  on  Hebrews. 


Neauder,  vul.  f),  and  Gieseler,  vol    5,  (Supjilemcntary  volumes) 


]>:k  K.  1^'.  Iien|r«ifenber{{°* 

rOMMENTATvY  on  the  PSALMS.     By  E.  W.  II.  nostinbetio.  D.D.,  Professor  of 

^      Theology  in  Berlin.     Translated  bv  Rev.  P.  Fairbairn,  and  Rev.  J.  Thomson.     In  3  vols. 
8vo,  (3.i.-.)     Vol.  1 ,  2,  and  12  of  the  Series. 

"  If  strikes  us  as  an  important  duty  to  give  every  enronragemrnt  in  our  power  to  such  coura- 
geous piiMieers,  such  devoted,  lung  tried,  ai  d  succe.'-slul  labourers  as  I'rofess(<r  Heiigstcnl)erg 
We  notice  his  Commentary,  for  tlie  simple  purj)ose  of  ex])ressiiig  our  pleasure  at  its  appearance, 
and  our  confident  peryunsion  that  it  must  take  a  very  high  place  among  our  Rtar.<lard  Commen- 
tari<-*  on  the  Psalms.  We  have  met  wiih  no  commentator  who  displays  higher  powers  or 
sounder  qnali  ications;  and  we  feel  persuadi  d,  to  (juote  the  words  of  a  very  competent  judge 
with  reference  to  his  work  on  the  Prophecies  of  Daniel,  that  '  it  will  leive  nothing  to  desire.'  " 
— Churchman's  MonlhUf  Rrriiw. 


WORKS  PUIJLISIIED  BY  T.   AND  T.   CLARK,    38  GEORGB  STREKT,  EDINBURGH. 


I$r  H..  M.  Hs^g-enlfacli. 

(COMPENDIUM  of  the  HISTORY  of  DOCTRINES.     By  K.  R.  Hagenbach, 

D.D.,  Professor  of  Theology  in  the  University  of  Basle.     Translated  by  Rev.  C.  W.  Buch. 
In  2  vols.  8vo,  (21s.)     Vols.  3  and  6  of  the  Series. 

"  It  is  thoroughly  critical;  not  a  phrase,  nor  a  fact  is  suffered  to  escape  its  notice;  not  a  docu- 
ment can  be  found  which  is  not  examined  and  re-examined;  step  by  step  it  pursues  its  toilsome 
course  backward  into  the  history  of  the  past,  illuminating  its  records,  and  making  its  men  to  live 
and  speak,  and  act  again,  and  giving  to  all  its  controversies  and  speculations  an  air  almost  of 
present  reality.  It  is  distinguished  for  its  brevity,  its  clear  statements  of  the  leading  jjoints,  its 
great  candour,  its  ample  references  to  the  body  of  contemporaneous  literature." — Bib/iotheca 
Sacra. 


I5r  J.  C.  1j.  Gie»eler. 

(^;OMPENDIUM  of  ECCLESIASTICAL  HISTORY.    By  J.  C.  L.  Gifseler,  D.D., 

Professor  of  Theology  in  Gottingen.  Translated  by  Samuel  Davidson,  LL.D.,  Professor  of 
Biblical  Literature  and  Ecclesiastical  History  in  the  Lancashire  Independent  College;  aud  Rev. 
J.  W.  Hull.     5  vols.  8vo,  (52s.  6d.)     Vols.  4,  9,  30,  31,  and  34  of  the  Series. 

"  Gieseler's  Church  History  is  an  invaluable  store  house  of  reference  to  the  anxious  and  in- 
quiring student  and  doctrinarian.  It  is  not  one  of  those  superficial  books  which  satisfies  the 
ordinary  and  indolent  reader.  It  presents  the  early  and  original  sources  of  ecclesiastical  history 
in  lucid  and  masterly  arrangement,  while  it  briefly  touches  on  the  information  which  they  convey 
— so  that,  along  with  the  author's  own  remarks,  which  indicate  a  cautious  and  impartial  judg- 
ment, we  have  faithiut  citations  and  catalogues  of  the  original  authorities,  on  whose  evidence  the 
statements  in  the  text  have  been  made.  He  has  not  only  given  us  a  text-book,  but  has  made  a 
collection  of  such  facts  and  documents  as  prepare  us  to  form  the  commentary  for  oui-selves." 
— Eclectic  Review. 


J%T  Hermann   Oli^iliansen. 

£IBLICAL  COMMENTARY  on  the  GOSPELS  and  ACTS,  adapted  especially  for 
Preachers  and  Students.     By  Hermann  Olshausen,  D.D.,  Professor  of  Theology  in  the 
University  of  Erlangen.     Translated  by  Rev.  Thomas   Brown,  &c.      In  4  vols.  8vo,  (L.2,  2s.) 
Vols.  5,  10,  16,  and  19  of  the  Series. 

"  Olshausen's  Commentaries  ai-e  perhaps  the  most  valuable  contribution  to  the  interpretation 
I  of  Scripture  that  have  made  their  way  to  us  from  Germany.  Minute  and  aeeui-ate,  yet  compre- 
hensive and  full,  ihey  ai-e  most  helpful  in  guiding  to  the  right  understanding  of  Scripture. 
They  are  scholar-like  in  their  execution,  sounder  in  their  doctrinal  views  than  most  German 
Expositions,  and  elevated  in  their  tone.  There  is  often  an  air  of  poetic  beauty  thrown  over  pas- 
sages which  attracts  and  rivets."- — Quarterly  Journal  of  Prophecy. 

I    l.IBLICAL    COMMENTARY  on  the  ROMANS,  adapted  especially  for  Preachers 
and  Students.      By  Hermann  Oi.shausen,  D.D.,  Professor  of  Theology  in  the  University  of 
Erlangen.       Translated  by  Clergymen   of  the  Church   of    England.       In  1  vol.  8vo,  (10s.  6d.) 
Vol.  13  of  the  Series. 
:        "  As  an  aid  to  ministers,  in  the  close  and  critical  study  of  the  Epistle  to  the  Romans,  we  par- 
ticularly recommend  this  Commentary;  it  is  a  very  remarkable  book,  and  will  reward  the  most 
I    minute  examination  of  its  contents.    No  man  could  have  written  it  who  had  not  studied  earnestly, 
I    with   the   most  scholarly  endowments,  to   follow  out  the  Apostle'a  train  of  thought,  w  ith  all  its 
I    minute  ramifications.     From  the  highly  evangelical  tone  which  in  general  pervades  his  Commen 
'    taries,  he  may  be  regarded,  in  most  cases,  as  a  safe  guide  to  the  student  who  is  just  entering  on 
I    the  critical  study  of  the  New  Testament." — Evavgelical  Magazine. 

RIBLICAL  COMMENTARY  on  St  PAUL'S  FIRST  and  SECOND  EPISTLES 

to  the  CORINTHIANS.  By  Hermann  Olshausen,  D.D.,  Professor  of  Theology  in  the 
University  of  Erlangen.  Ti'anslated  by  Rev.  John  I^dmund  Cox,  M.A.,  F.S.A.,  of  All  Soul's 
College,  Oxford,  Vicar  of  St  Helen's,  Bishopsgate,  London.  In  1  vol.  8vo,  (9s.)  Vol.  20  of  the 
Series. 

"  The  present  volume  will  be  held  by  the  biblical  student  as  a  superior  help  to  the  study  of 
those  two  important  Epistles.  The  work  is  highly  erudite,  and  the  result  of  very  great  labour." 
— British  Bfinner. 


WOKKS  PUBLlSllliD  BY  T.   AND  T.  CLAUK,    38   GEOKOlt  STKEKJ',   liDlNBUUQU 


mBLlC\T.  COMMENTAKY  on  St  PAUL'S   EPISTLE  to  the  GALAriANb, 

^^  El'IlESlANS,  COLOSSI  ANS,  and  TIIESSALONIANS.  By  Hkkma.nn  Olsiiausen,  D.D., 
rrofes.soi-  of  Tl.e..logy  in  the  University  of  Erlangeu.  Translated  by  A  Clergyman  of  the 
Church  of  En-land.      In  1  vol.  8vo,  (10s.  (Jd.)      Vol.  "Jl  of  the  Series. 

•'  OKshausen  is  a   patient  and  learned  writer,  and  evinces  considerable  moderation  and  reve- 
rence of  tone." — Enqlish  Revitw.  ,. 

"Olshausen's  mind  is  of  the  fan.ily  of  Augustine.     His  admirable  Commentary  on  U'o  New 
Testament  is  of  inestimable  benefit  to  the  student,  nay,  to  every  thoughtful  reader  of  the  liible. 
— A  icltdeucon  Hare. 

IHBLICAL  COMMENTARY  on  St  PAUL'S  EPISTLE  to  tl.e  PHILIPPI AxXS, 

^^  to  TITUS  and  the  FUIST  to  TLMOTllY;  in  Continuation  of  the  Work  ol  Olsiiausen. 
By  Lie.  Aijgl.st'wiesinoer.  Translated  by  Rev.  John  Fulton,  A.NL,  Garvald.  In  1  vol.  8vo, 
(lUs.  6d.)     Vol.  "23  of  the  Series. 

UIBLICAL  COMMENTARY  on  the  HEBREWS.      By  Dr.  Ebrahd.      In  con- 

^^  tinuation  of  the  Work  of  Olshausen.  Translated  by  the  Rev.  J.  Fulton.  (10s.  6d.) 
Vol.  32  of  the  Series. 

NOTICE  of  OLSHAUSEN'S  COMMENTAEY  from  CHRISTIAN  OBSERVER,  JtUy  1852. 
«  The  honoured  names  of  Olshausen,  Tholuck,  llengstenberg,  Neander,  and  otWers  of  less  note, 
though  not  of  less  usefulness,  nmst  ever  command  the  respect  of  every  deeper  student  of  theology. 
Tl.e  "shine  with  a  lustre  th.t  renders  the  darkness  around  them  still  more  dark  and  palpable. 
It  iJ  to  the  tii-st  of  these  names  that,  on  the  present  occasion,  we  wish  shortly  to  direct  the  atten- 
tion of  our  readers,  not  indeed  in  the  language  of  unqualified  approbation    (would  indeed  U  vvere 
so,)  but  yet   with  such  expressions  of  praise,  as  may  show  a  just  gratitude  for  the  concentration 
and  ener.'v  of  mind  wliich  the  learned  e.xpositor  developes  in  every  page  of  his  thoughtful  com- 
mentary ""  We  are  desirous,  too,  of  enabling  our  more  general  readers  to  form  an  estimate  of 
the  eseiietical  laboui-s  of  Geniianv,  which  now,  by  the  media  of  translations,  are  becoming  more 
xvidelv  and  popularly  known  among  us.     We  would  gladly  obliterate  from  their  minds  the  uu- 
charilable  impression  that  every  German  theologian  is  a  rationalist,  and  every  church  lustonan 
a  sceptic      There  are  great  and  noble  exceptions,  and  none  more  einn.ent  than  that  of   the  wise 
and  good  man  whose  labours  preface  our  article.    Dr  Hermann  Olshausen  is  one  of  those  persons 
whom  the  pious  hearts  of  Germany  will  long  remember  with  aflection  and  veneration.    Endowed 
even  at  an  early  age  with  unusual  gifts,  with  a  great  faculty  f.r  acquiring  languages,  with  the 
rare  oualitv  of  an   instinctive  criticism,  with  a  singular  fle.^ibility  of  mnid,  and  a  command  of 
lancua-'e  which  enabled  him  to  give  e.xpression   to  llie  most  subtle  modes  of  thought;  with  all 
these  .'Ifts  and  powei-s,  he  devoted  himself  to  the  vindication  of  the  Gosi-el  history  against  the 
i    rabbkcalumnies  of  rationalists  and  pantheists.     On  the   great   and  fun.lamental    do«irines  of 
Cliristianitv,  Olshausen  is  as  fixed  and  as  stable  as  the  rock  on  which  the  church  is  built       Ihe 
;    consciousn'ess  of  sin  is,  as  his  translator  well  remarks,  '  the  pivot  in  Olshausen  s  mind  which 
I    moves  all  the  rest;'  deep  inward  experiences  and  the  pressing  need  of  a  Redeemer,  niake  him 
I    ever  feel  and  ever  avow  that  we  are  not  following  cunningly  devised  fables,  but  real,  substantial. 
and  vital  truths,  which  breathe  and  burn  through  every  page  of  the  blessed  Gospels.     Many 
I    pa.H.H;iges  of  real  force,  eloquence,  and   piety,  have  been  marked  by  us  m  our  perusal  of  these 
i    voluines       We  ought  to  add,  that  the  translation  of  Olshausen's  work,  considering  the  difticnlt.es 
'    inherent  in  the  stvle  of  so  thoughtful  and  often  profound  writer  as  Olshausen,  is,  on   the  whole, 
Bucce^sfullv  execu'ted.      We  cueeive  ourselves  to  have  detected  a  few  mistakes,  but  they  are  not 
such  as  to  "deprive  the.  work  oi   the  character  of  a  fair,  and,  indeed,  complete  representation  of 
the  mind  and  genius  of  the  auilior."' 


pENERAL  HISTORY  of  the  CHRISTIAN  RELIGION  and  CHURCH.     By 

.  AicisTis  Neandkr    D.D.     Translated  from  the  Second  and  Improved  Edition  by  Joskph 

j    ToRRKT,    Fn.fessor  of   Moral   and    Intellectual   riiilosophy  in   the  University  of  Vermont.     In 

9  vols.  8vo,  (L.*2,  9».  6d  )     Vols.  7,  8,  11    14,  \h,  17,  24,  2.5,  and  33  of  the  Series. 

Tnis  u  lU  vidii  EdiliuH  in  a  Lmr.ABV  Hui. 

"  lie  brought  to  the  work  a  combination  of  singular  excellencies.     He  had  amnssed  stores  of 

learuuig  to  a  degree  aluiout  incredible,  both  for  extent  and  accuracy;  and  to  these  he  a<lded  a 


WORKS  PUBLISH KD  BY  T.  AND  T.  CLARK,  38  GEORGE  STREET,  EDINBURGH. 


power  of  generalization  as  wonderful  as  tlv3  learning  it  methodized  and  explained.  A  broad 
spirit  of  Christian  sympathy,  moreover,  springing  out  of  his  px-ofound  spiritual  character,  enabled 
him  to  identify  himself  vvith  all  the  developments  of  true  Christianity  in  the  pi-ogress  of  the 
Church.  To  Neander,  the  History  of  the  Church  gathered  its  interest  from  the  practical 
development  which  it  exhibits  of  that  scheme  of  redemption  which  is  set  forth  in  the  incarnation 
and  atonement,  and  is  designed  by  God  to  pervade  and  sanctify  the  sinful  nature  of  man  in  every 
ace  and  land.  This  was  the  starting  point  of  his  historical  studies,  and  there  was  connected  with 
this  practical  aim  the  call  of  philosophy  to  represent  these  results  in  a  scientific  form.  Hence 
the  double  character  of  his  History,  as  seen  on  its  philosophical  side,  in  the  homage  paid  to 
science,  and,  on  its  practical  side,  in  the  higher  homage  paid  to  piety." — North  British  Review, 
February  1851. 


A 


JM.  A.  Cls.  Mavei'iiicU. 

N  HISTORICO-CRITICAL   INTRODUCTION    to  the  PENTATEUCH.    By 

H.  A.  Ch.  Havernick,  Professor  of  Theology  in  the  University  of  Konigsberg.  Translated 
by  Alexander  Thomson,  A.M.,  Professor  of  Biblical  Literature,  Glasgow  Theological  Academy. 
In  1  vol.  8vo,  (10s.  6d.)     Vol,  18  of  the  Series. 

"  This  work  is  peculiarly  welcome  to  us — he  goes  over  the  whole  ground  minutely  and  labori- 
ously— he  deals  with  the  actual  difficulties  which  have  been  started — he  shows  their  groundless- 
ness one  by  one,  and  gives  distinct  evidence  that  the  Pentateuch  is  actually  a  historic  document, 
and  that  it  is  no*  imposture  of  a  later  age,  but  the  genuine  production  of  Moses  himself." — Kitto^s 
Journal. 

pENERAL    INTRODUCTION    to   the    OLD    TESTAMENT.      By    Professor 
Havernick.      Translated  by  Rev.  W.  Lindsay  Alexander,  D.D.      1  Vol.  8vo,    (10s.  6d.) 
Vol.  28  of  the  Series. 


■^r  E.  ^^V.  HeBBgrsteiiberg*. 

THE    REVELATION    of   St    JOHN,    Expounded    for    those    who    Search    the 
Scriptures.     By  E.  W.  Hengstenberg,  D.D.,  Professor  of  Theology  in  Berlin.     Translated 
from  the  Original  by  the  Rev.  Patrick  Fairbairn,  author  of  "  Typology  of  Scripture;"  "  Eze- 
kiel,  an  Exposition;"  *' Jonah,"  &c.     lu  2  vols.  8vo,  (21s.)     Vols.  22  and  26  of  the  Series. 

"  His  present  work  will  not  diminish  his  well-earned  reputation;  it  is  characterized  by  original 
thinking,  extensive  and  accurate  erudition,  and  a  cordial  reverence  for  the  inspired  Word.  In 
this  work  will  he  found  much  Scriptural  truth,  and  many  exquisite  unfoldings  of  the  mind  of  the 
Spirit  in  dark  places." — United  Presbytfrian  Magazine. 

"  We  hail  with  pleasure  the  completion  of  this  able  work,  incomparably  the  clearest,  the  most 
critical,  and  the  best  which  has  appeared  on  the  subject." — M'P/iail's  Journal. 

"  The  Exposition  before  us  evuices  a  great  intimacy  vvith  Scripture,  and  we  doubt  not  that  it 
will  be  oerused  vvith  interest  by  many  readei's." — English  Review, 


t>v  Julius  Mitller. 

THE    CHRISTIAN    DOCTRINE   of  SIN.      By  Dr  Julius  Muller.      Trans- 

lated  by  the  Rev.  W.  PuLSFORD.     2  vols.  8 vo,  (21s.)    Vols.  37  and  29  of  the  Series. 

"  The  work  before  us  is  undoubtedly  to  be  considered  the  most  weighty  and  important  contri- 
bution to  the  cause  of  dogmatic  theology  which  Germany  has  recently  produced.  It  unites  in  a 
high  degree  depth  and  comprehensiveness  with  practical  earnestness  and  clearness.  It  is  pro- 
found even  to  the  contentment  of  a  German  mind,  yet  rarely  obscure  or  uninstructive;  the  author 
evinces  his  thorough  metaphysical  training,  and  his  work  is  pervaded  by  the  presence  of  a  shin- 
ing and  disciplined  intellect,  and  the  rare  mastery  of  a  large  and  skilful  argumentative  grasp. 
He  has  in  no  sense  taken  up  his  subject  as  so  much  mere  theological  task-work  by  which  to  gain 
a  reputation;  but  it  has  plainly  been  with  him  long  a  favourite  sphere  of  reflection,  the  haunt 
and  main  i-egion  of  his  spirit  during  many  years  of  silent  and  meditative  preparation;  he  has  felt 
its  surpassing  interest,  its  grand  significaney,  its  solemn  importance.  He  has  seen  such  a  work  to 
be  above  all  that  was  needed  by  his  country's  theology,  and  addressed  himself  to  it  in  the  spirit 
of  grave  earnestness,  and  patient  though tfulness  beseeming  it." — British  Quarterly  Review. 


FOREIGN    THEOLOGICAL    LIBRARY. 


TiiK  First  Series  consi.-^ts  of  34  vols.  8vo.,  price  L8,  IBs.  Gd.  (wliicli  miiy  be  pai<l 
by  Instalmoiits.  if  more  convenient  thitn  in  one  sum).  Of  tlie  Second  Series  12 
vols,  are  published,  wliicli  may  be  had  on  a  remittance  of  'fliree  Guineas,  eitlier 
direct  or  tlirougli  a  respectable  JJookseller.  The  Subscription  for  1857  is  also 
now  due. 

The  following  is  a   list  of  the  Works   published.     Each   Work  may  be  had 
separately  at  the  prices  marked  within  brackets. 

FIRST  SERIES. 
HENGSTENBERG'S  C0:\OrEN'rARV  ON  THE  PSAOIS.     3  Vols.    (33s.) 
HAGENBACirS  COMPENDIUM  OF  THE  IIISTOUY  OF  DOCTRINES. 

•2  Vols.  (2 Is.) 

GIESELEll'S  COMPENDIUM  OF  ECCLESIASTICAL  HISTORY.    5  Vols. 

(L2,  12s.  Cd.) 

HENGSTENBERG  ON  THE  REVELATION.     2  Vols.     (21s.) 
MULLER  ON  THE  CHRISTIAN  DOCTRINE  OF  SIN.     2  Vols.     (21s.) 
NEANDER'S  GENERAL  CHURCH  HISTORY.     9  Vols.     (L.2,  lis.  Gd.) 
OLSIIAUSEN  ON  THE  GOSPELS  AND  A.CTS.     i  Vols.     (42s.) 
OLSHAUSEN  ON  THE  ROMANS.     (lOs.  Gd.) 
OLSIIAUSEN  ON  THE  CORINTHIANS.     (Us.) 

OLSIIAUSEN    ON    THE    GALATIANS,    EPIIESIANS,    COLOSSIANS, 

AND  TIIESSALONIANS.     (10s.  6d.) 
OLSIIAUSEN  ON  PHILIPPIANS,  TITUS,  AND  TIMOTHYS     (10s.  Gd.) 
OLSIIAUSEN  AND  EBRARD  ON  THE  HEBREWS.     (10s.  Gd.) 

IIAVERNICK'S  HISTORICO-CRITICAL  INTRODUCTION  TO  THE 
rENTATEUCII.     (10s.  6d.) 

HAVERNICK'S  GENER.VL  INTRODUCTION  TO  THE  OLD  TES- 
TAMENT.   (lOs.  6d.) 


SECOND  SERIES. 

HENGSTENBERG'S    CHRISTOLOCJY    OF    THE    OLD    TEST^OIENT. 

Vols.  First  iiiul  Second.     (lOs.  6d.  emh.) 
BAUMGARTEN'S  APOSTOLIC  HISTORY;  beingan  Account  of  the  Develop- 
ment of  the  Earlv  Cliurdi,  in  a  Coniinentaiy  on  the  Acts  of  the  Apostles.     3  vols.     (27s.) 
ULLMANN'S  REF0R>H:RS  BEFORE  THE  REFORMATION,  Principally 
in  Gennany  and  the  Netherlands.     Translated  by  Hev.  H.  Mi.kziks.     2  vols.  8vo.     (21s.) 
"  A  valuable  contrihutinii  to  the  history  of  Christian  ilof^mas,  while  at  the  same  time  it  aids  in 
rctrieviiiK  front  ubliviun  men  whose  aelioii  upon  the  [io|iuhir  mind  at  oneo  traismitted  its  impulse  to 
the  Keformers,  and  prepared  a  eon^^eniai  soil  for  their  tilth."— Aor/A  American  Quarterly  lieLicw. 
"The  reader  will  receive  a  rich  treat  from  its  perusal." — Clerical  Journal. 

"  We  hail  thi.H  accession  to  our  theological  literature  with  unfeigned  satisfaction."— .finVwA  and 
FoTeiijn  Evanijelical  Review. 

STI1:R  on  the  words  of  the  lord  JESUS.     Vols.  1,  2,  3,  4,  and  5. 

(lOs.  Cd.  each.) 
"  One  of  the  most  precious  books  for  the  spiritual  interpretation  of  the  Gospels." — Archdeacon 
Hare. 

"  Or  Stif.h  briiiffs  to  the  exposition  of  our  Lord's  discourses  sound  learuinj;;-,  a  vif:;-orous  under- 
stamlinjr,  and  a  tjuick  discernment ;  but  what  is  better,  he  brinjfs  also  a  devout  mind,  and  a  habit  of 
Uiought  spiritual  and  deferential  to  the  truth." — J:'vanijelic(il  Christendum. 
The  following  is  the  order  of  publication  : — 


2d  Year. 
Ullmann,  2  Vols. 
Stier,  Vols.  1  and  2. 


1st  Year, 
llengstenborg's  Christology,  Vol.  1. 
Uaunigarten,  3  Vols. 

yd  Year. 
Ilengstenberg,  Vol.  2.  |  Sticr,  Vols.  3,  4,  5. 

N.B. — TJtc  Books  for  a  singlt  year  cannot  be  supplUd  separately. 
Eflinburgh  :  T.  &  T.  Cl.vuk.     London  (for  Non-Subscribers  only) :  IlAiULTON, 

AliAMS,  &  Co. 


HENGSTENBERG'S  CHRISTOLOGY. 


CHRISTOLOGY  OF  THE  OLD  TESTAMENT,  AND  A  COMMENTARY  ON 
THE  MESSIANIC  PREDICTIONS. 

BY     DE     E.     W.     HENGSTENBEEG. 

TKANSLAXED  FliOM  THE  GERMAN  EDITION  (nOW  IN  COUKSE  OF  PUBLICATION) 

BY  THE  REV.  T.  MEYER. 

Vols.  1  and  2  (to  be  completed  in  4  Volumes). 

[106".  6d.  each  to  Non-Subscnbers  to  Foreign  Theological  Librarif.'] 


"  We  hail  with  delight  a  new  edition  of  Dr  Hengstenberg's  most  valuable  work 
in  a  readable  English  dress." — Churchman's  Magazine. 

"  A  noble  specimen   of  exegetical  theology  and  critical  analysis."— C/e?wa/ 
Journal. 

"  The  well-matured  production  of  a  great  and  learned  man.     It  is  thoroughly 
ripe  in  the  spirit  of  Christian  philosophy  and  true  Biblical  scholarship." — Ilomilist. 


BAUMGARTEN    ON    THE    ACTS. 

THE  ACTS  OF  THE  APOSTLES;  OR,  THE  HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH 
DURING  THE  APOSTOLIC  AGE. 

BY     PROFESSOE     BAUMGAETEN. 

In  3  Volumes. 

[27s.  to  Non-Suhscnhers  to  Foreign  Theological  Librari/.'\ 


"  We  have  felt  devoutly  thankful  to  the  great  Head  of  the  Church,  who  has 
raised  up  a  champion  able  to  meet,  by  an  exposition  of  the  Acts  at  once  so  pro- 
foundly scientific  and  so  sublimely  Christian  as  tliat  before  us,  one  of  the  most 
pressing  wants  of  our  times.  We  have  not  the  smallest  hesitation  in  expressing 
our  modest  conviction  that  in  no  previously  uninspired  portion  of  her  history,  has 
the  Church  of  Christ  possessed  such  means  as  are  here  afforded  her,  of  gaining  a 
true  insight  into  the  meaning  of  her  own  glorious  archives." — Eclectic  Review. 

"  Although  there  are  points  on  which  we  do  not  agree  with  the  author,  yet 
these  volumes  teem  with  the  most  admirable  merit,  and  are  at  once  an  armoury 
and  garner — alike  rich  in  thought  and  triumphant  in  controversy." — British  and 
Foreign  Evangelical  Record. 

"  A  most  valuable  contribution  to  our  Christian  literature." — British  Quarterl// 
Review. 

"  If  we  have  devoted  unusually  large  space  to  the  review  of  this  work,  it  is  only 
what  its  great  importance  and  high  merits  deserve.  We  cordially  commend  it." 
—  United  Presbyterian  Magazine. 


DR  RUDOLF  STIER. 


THE    WORDS    OF    THE    LORD    JESUS. 
BY   RUDOLF   STIETl,   D.D., 

CHIEF    PASTOR    AND    SJTKRINTKNnKNT    OF    SCTIKF.rniTZ. 

Volumes  1  to  5. 

\_Pn're  to  N'on-Suh.'irnbn's  to  Foreii/ii    Tlieolnrjiml  lAhrcmj^    lO.o.   Cnl.  each.'] 

THIS  IXVALUAUr.E  AVORK   WILL  RF.  COMPLETKD  IN   8  VOLS. 


"  One  of  the  most  precious  books  for  the  spiritual  interpretation  of  the  Gospels." 
— .  1  rch(h'it<-(in  Ifaif. 

"  ^lost  remarkable  as  an  acute,  profountl,  exhaustive,  and  highly  s])irituiil 
interj)retor.  AVe  know  not  that  there  is  any  work,  of  any  ecclesiastical  age, 
containin<x,  within  anything  like  the  same  compass,  so  many  pregnant  instances 
of  what  true  genius,  in  chastened  submission  to  the  control  of  a  sound  philology, 
and  gratefully  nccejjting  the  seasonable  and  suitable  helps  of  a  wholesome  erudi- 
tion, is  capable  of  doing  to  the  spiritual  exegesis  of  the  Sacred  Volume.  Every 
page  is  fretted  and  studded  with  lines  and  forms  of  the  most  alluring  beauty.  At 
every  step,  the  reader  is  constrained  to  pause  and  ponder,  lest  he  should  overlook 
one  or  other  of  the  many  precious  blossoms  which,  in  the  most  dazzling  profusion, 
are  scattered  around  his  path.  The  heart  and  hand  of  a  master  in  Israel  is 
everywhere  manifest.  AVe  venture  to  predict,  that  his  book  is  destined  to  pro- 
duce a  givat  and  happy  revolution  in  the  interpretation  of  the  New  Testament  in 
this  countr}-." — BrilisJi  and  Foreign  Evangelical  Review. 

"  In  addition  to  profound  and  searching  thought,  and  reverent  handling  of  the 
matter,  it  is  characterised  by  a  stout-hearted  maintenance  of  the  integrity  of  the 
sacred  text,  and  of  the  Divine  authority  of  the  Old  Testament  as  well  as  of  the 

New." — Literary  Clnirchmau. 

'*  We  know  of  no  exposition  of  the  Gospels  which  can  compare  with  this  in- 
valuable j)roduction." — Edeitic  Review. 

''  It  is  the  profound  spirituality  of  his  mind  which  gives  the  richest  charm  to 
his  writings,  throwing  over  them  a  glow  wliich  irresistibly  attract.^  our  sympathies, 
even  when  the  disfiuisition  wliich  it  irra<liatcs  niii/ht  otiierwise  repel  U3." — 
Methodist  Magazine. 

"  The  further  we  examine,  the  more  we  are  <lisposcd  to  prize  this  work." — 
Jia/ttist  ^faga:ine. 

'■  To  all  who  wish  to  study  the  deep  meaning  of  the  Saviour's  teaching,  an<l 
especially  its  evangelical  import-,  we  earnestly  commend  these  volumes.  Theo- 
logical science  and  spiritual  religion  will  have  gained  immensely  in  England  when 
this  profound  and  suggestive  work  shall  be  completed," — London  Qtiarterfi/  Jin-iev. 


In  Two  Volumes  Svo,  price  21s., 

REFORMERS   BEFORE   THE    REFORMATION, 

PRINCIPALLY  IN  GERMANY  AND  THE  NETHERLANDS, 
DEPICTED  BY  DR  C.  UT^LMANN. 


The  Translation  bt  the  Rev.  Egbert  Menzies. 


Vixere  fortes  ante  Agamemnona 
Multi. — Horace. 


This  work  has  been  pronounced  by  Dr  Schaft",  a  highly  competent  judge,  to  be 
beyond  doubt  one  of  the  finest  ornaments  of  the  recent  Theology  of  Germany,  and 
a  masterpiece  of  historical  research  and  composition,  as  profound  as  it  is  clear. 
Nor  are  the  interest  and  importance  of  the  theme  inferior  to  the  ability  with  Avhich 
it  has  been  treated.  The  Author's  object  is  to  show,  what  in  this  country  is  so  little 
understood,  that  the  Reformation  pre-existed  its  actual  advent,  being  nothing  more 
than  the  ripening  of  the  seed  of  Avhich  the  sowing  and  growth  had  occupied  the 
whole  of  the  previous  century  ;  and  that,  in  place  of  having  been  the  sole  hero  of  the 
enterprize,  Luther  succeeded  a  whole  host  of  pioneers,  whose  previous  labours  were 
the  indispensable  condition  of  his  ultimate  success,  and  whose  spiritual  insight  and 
piety  were  even  the  sources  from  which  his  were  fed.  The  work  accordingly 
consists  of  a  group  of  portraits,  many  of  them  of  men  scarcely  known  among  us, 
even  by  name,  but  whose  merits  well  entitle  them  to  have  their  memories  rescued 
from  oblivion,  and  embalmed  in  universal  gratitude  and  respect.  It  is  divided 
into  four  Books,  of  which  Jolin  of  Goch,  John  of  Wesel,  the  Brethren  of  the 
Common  Lot,  and  John  Wessel  are  severally  the  subjects,  being  intimded  to  ex- 
emplify, the  first,  the  need  of  the  Reformation  in  respect  of  the  general  spirit  of  the 
Church  ;  the  second,  the  need  of  it  in  respect  of  special  prevailing  abuses ;  the 
third,  its  positive  rudiments  in  the  improved  moral  and  religious  condition  of  the 
people ;  and  the  fourth,  a  no  less  important  ])ositive  element,  viz.,  the  introduction 
of  a  sounder  and  more  scriptural  theology.  But  while  these  worthies  form  the  pro- 
minent figures  in  the  pictures  which  he  draws,  and  while  their  lives  and  writings, 
their  labours  and  conflicts  afford  the  chief  materials  of  the  narrative,  the  Author 
weaves  into  it  a  great  amount  and  variety  of  information  respecting  the  places,  per- 
sons, opinions,  and  public  events,  with  which  they  were  connected.  We  have  thus 
the  history  of  the  spiritual  aberrations,  ecclesiasticiil  abuses,  and  theological  disputes 
of  the  age.  We  have  an  account  of  the  Universities  of  F^rfnrt,  Cologne,  Paris,  and 
Heidelberg ;  of  many  celebrated  Schools,  and  of  such  famous  seats  of  Medifeval 
Ecclesiasticism  as  Meclilin,  Worms,  and  the  cities  on  the  Rhine.  We  are  made 
acquainted  with  the  great  men  who  adorned  the  century,  and  influenced  it  f  )r  good 
or  evil — with  Gregory  of  Ileimburg,  the  heroic  champion  of  civil  liberty — with  the 
devout  and  sagacious  monk,  Jacob  of  Juterbock — with  Matthew  of  Cracow,  the 
great  Bishop  of  Worms,  and  the  fearless  castigator  of  Papal  corruption — with  the 
heavenly-minded  Thomas  a  Kempis — with  the  German  mystics,  the  charming 
Henry  Suso,  the  sentimental  Tauler,  tlie  author  of  the  "  German  Theology,"  and 
Staupitz,  the  noble  friend  and  instructor  of  Luther — with  the  learned  Bessarion, 
and  the  accomplished  but  vmprincipled  Francis  de  Rovere — with  Agricola,  Dahlberg, 
and  Reuchlin,  the  early  revi^'crs  of  ancient  literature.  The  connection  of  all  these 
matters  with  the  great  event  that  was  shoitly  to  ensue,  is  also  clearly  and  convin- 
cingly demonstrated.  Most  of  the  topics,  and  especially  the  life  of  John  Wessel,  the 
Brethren  of  the  Common  liOt,  and  the  German  Mystics,  besides  their  intrinsic 
interest,  must  possess  for  the  English  reader  tlie  additional  charm  of  entire  freshness 
and  novelty.  All  will  admire  tiie  noble  sketch  of  the  Western  Church  of  the  loth 
century  in  the  introduction  to  Book  Second.  And  the  exposition  of  John  Wessel's 
Theology,  which  terminates  the  work,  will  have  a  special  worth  and  relish  for  the 
professional  student  of  divinity. 


fl/tJ-\.'<^  I  '■ 


ir^ 


JOUNO  BY  ' 
DINBURCHjj. 


