                      v 4T




                                                                      «r^j*?

                                 4**




m       ft'-«lb   w*
                  >




                                                            .   'Oi




                         •   -
                                 ^* f
                                       r*>    -   rm

                                         eg




                                                       *
                                                       !
                                                           h>




    W ^WBrr' "'KT        u
                                  -/       / -V


                   V>




      THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY, te
                         Princeton, N. J.

      Bequeathed by the Hon. E. BOUDINOT, LL.D.
                                               **
Jjf
                                                        J
*# # fy#### #<»# # *###***#*
               |
                   ;



                       Clise,   Djyision           M-
       j)

           :

                       «/*«//, Sec-                     *.
                                           ,

                                                  (j>
       j

       (                Book,,,                    jj
       1
                                No.
bCTs- *.*
                       HIE



          CONSTITUTION
                      AND


     ASSOCIATE STATUTES

                     OF THE



  THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
                        IN



               AXDOVER;

WITH A SKETCH OF ITS RISE AND PROGRESS.


     PUBLISHED BY ORDER OF THE TRUSTEE*.




                    BOSTON    ;




  PUBLISHED BY FARRAND, MALLORY, AND CO
        SUFFOLK BUILDINGS, STATE STREET.

          Belcher and Armstrong, Printers.

                      1808.
           HISTORIC SKETCH,
 exhibited at. the opening of the theological
                        institution.

             :by eliphalet   pearson, ll.d.




 1 O gratify a common and salutary principle of hu-
man nature, it has been thought proper to introduce
the communications of the day with a brief account of
the rise, progress, and object of the Institution, now to
be organized.    To arrive at its origin, it must be trac-
ed back to the pious Institution, more than thirty years
since founded in this place by the united liberality of two
brothers, the Hon.   Samuel and the Hon. John Phillips,
sons 6f the first Minister of this Parish.   In the Consti-
tution of their Academy they expressly declare " that
" the Jirst and principal object of their Institution is the

"promotion of true Piety and Virtue."                 They
have also accordingly made it the duty of the princi-
pal Instructor, "as the age and capacities of theschol-
" ars will admit, not only to instruct and establish them
" in the truth of Christianity, but also to inculcate upon
u them the great and important doctrines and duties of
" our holy religion."     In promotion of the same sub-
lime object the Hon. John Phillips farther gave in the
year 1789,   the generous    sum of $20,000, "for the
" virtuous and pious education of youth of genius and

serious disposition" in this Academy.        To complete
his liberality, in his last Will he bequeathed to the Acad-

emy in Exeter, of which he was sole Founder, two
thirds and to the Academy in this town one third of the

residue of all his Estate, " for the benefit," as his ex-
pression is, " more especially of charity scholars, such
" as may be of excelling genius, and of good moral
" character, preferring the hopefully pious         ;   and such of
"these, who are designed to be employed in the great
" and good work of the gospel ministry, having acquir-
" ed the most useful human literature in either of these
" Academies or other Seminaries, may be assisted in the
" study of Divinity (if a Theological Professor is not
" employed in either of the two forementioned Acade-
" mies) under the direction of some eminent Calvinis-
" tic Minister of the gospel, until such time, as an able,
il
     pious, and orthodox Instructor shall, at least in part,
" be supported in one or both these Academies, as a
" Professor of Divinity       ;   by whom they may be taught
" the important principles and distinguishing tenets of
" our holy Christian religion."           To this Fund the Hon.
William Phillips,      late       of   Boston,   also   bequeathed
S4000 for the      same pious design.
     In the special appropriation of this Fund every one
must remark the expansion of the great object of the
Founders of the Academy, and its intimate connexion
ivith the Theological Institution now established ; and,

agreeably to the principal design of the Founders and to
the express object of this Fund, a considerable number
of theological Students, now settled in the ministry,
have been supported on this Foundation, while prose-
cuting their studies under the direction of the Clergy-
man of this place.
     On a well grounded expectation of liberal additions
to   their    theological fund, the Trustees in June 1807

applied to the General Court, to enlarge their power of
holding estate and obtained the following Act.
     " Commonwealth of Massachusetts               ;       Whereas the
" Trustees of Phillips Academy have petitioned this
" Court for liberty to receive and hold donations of
" charitably disposed persons, for the purpose of a The-
" ological Institution, and in furtherance of the designs
" of the pious Founders and Benefactors of said Acade-
" my    ;    and, whereas     it   is   reasonable, that the prayer
" should be granted       ;


     " Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Repre-
" sentatives, in General Court assembled, and by the
" authority of the same, that the said Trustees of Phil-
" lips Academy be, and they are hereby impowered to
" receive, purchase, and hold, for the purposes afore -
"said, real and personal estate, the  annual income
" whereof shall not exceed 85000, in addition to what
" they are now allowed by law to hold    provided the  ;


 " income of the said real and personal estate be always
 "applied to       said   objects,        agreeably to the will     of
 "the Donors, if consistent with the original design of
 " the Founders of the said Academy."
    The expectation, which gave rise to this enlargement
 of power, we now see fulfilled in the broad foundation,
 since laid for the support oi theological Professors and
 Students in this Seminary.
                                   6

      Such, as we have now represented, is the connexion
 between Phillips Academy and the Theological Institu-
 tion, whose birth we this day celebrate ;        and justice as
 well, as gratitude, requires us to recognize the former,

 as the radix of the latter, and as the embryo of              its fu-

 ture manhood.
              we trace back the new Institution to the
      But, while
pious benevolence of men now in Heaven       we must    ;




not, we cannot fail to acknowledge the immeasurable

goodness of God           in raising up others to enlarge        and
perfect, what they had begun.           It is indeed the Lord's

doings and it is marvellous in our eyes.            That so ma-
ny persons,        in different sections of the     community,
should at the same period, and without communication,
be impressed with the necessity of such an Institution,
an Institution unnamed in the annals of this country
and of Europe      ;   and that men, possessing the ability, per-
sonally unknown to each other, should at the same mo-

ment be moved, with almost unprecedented liberality,
to devote their property to the education of a pious and

learned ministry, must compel, one would think, even
atheism    itself to acknowledge that there        is       a God in
heaven, who ruleth among the children of men.                 Those
especially, whose situation        and agency have furnished
the best opportunity of observing the            many striking
proofs of the interposing, guiding, and controlling hand
of divine Providence in the formation of this Institu-
tion, have   had abundant cause to exclaim, in the              lan-
guage of pious gratitude, " Not unto us, O Lord, not
l<
     unto us, but unto thy name give glory."
   As the nature and object               of the Institution, togeth-

er with the motives, views,                    and expectations of the
Founders, will fully appear from their respective Stat-
utes, now to be read ;          it   is   unnecessary to enlarge on
these topics.     I shall   only observe that, as the Semi-
nary originated in a conviction of the importance of a
learned and evangelical ministry ; so its primary object
is to lay   such a foundation of sacred literature, as                will

best support and protect the superstructure of gospel
truth against the open assaults and secret machinations
of atheism, infidelity, and error.                 Not the peculiarities
of any sect or party, but the great -system of revealed
truth, contained in the Bible, avowed by the Reformers,

embraced by our Fore-fathers, and expressed in the As-
sembly's catechism     ;   it   will be the         duty of the Profes-
sors to illustrate and maintain            ;    as must be evident from
the creed, which they are required to subscribe.                      Nor
will any force or influence, but that of tntth,be employ-

ed with the Students, to gain their assent to any system
or doctrine.     And surely no man of understanding and
information can with propriety denominate that system
of Christian doctrine sectarian, which, as appears from
the     Harmony of Confessions,                 has been received and
professed by all Protestant Churches in Europe                   ;   which
was the faith of the first settlers of this country, and is
still   the faith of the great body of their pious descend-

ants.     It is true indeed, that some difference in opinion

and practice, relative to discipline, rites, and modes of
worship, early took place among Protestants in Europe
as well, as in this country ;         which has given rise to sev-
eral    denominations of Christians.                 Still   however the
                                                                 ;




                                 8

 great doctrines of the reformation continue to consti-
 tute the public creed of our Churches and the faith of

 most private Christians.       If it   be true, that some indi-
 viduals, who call themselves Christians, have renounc-

ed the doctrines of the reformation in general, or any
cardinal doctrine in particular;           such individuals, not
the body of Christians, still embracing those doctrines,
merit the epithet sectarian.            These observations     are
made, not to censure any, who on some points may
think differently from us   ;    but merely to exhibit this
infant   Seminary in its proper attitude and true light
and to guard against those misapprehensions and fears,
which it is natural even for honest and serious minds
to entertain, concerning an Institution so novel and so

interesting.   Conscious,   that        our object is to defend
and disseminate the pure gospel of Christ, we are soli-
citous, that so good a cause may not suffer from preju-

dice, and that through us divine truth receive no detri-

ment.     Of the unbelieving and fearful we request, that
they judge nothing before the time          ;   and, when that ar-
rives, that we may be judged         according to our works.
The tree is known by its fruit. Till that is formed
and matured, the wise man will suspend his judgment
and his fears, and the man of real candor will hope the
best.

  In tracinsr the origin of the new Institution the ven-
erable   Founders of the Academy, which bears their
name, have arisen to our view in grateful remembrance;
but even the tribute of justice has not been paid to the
prime mover as well, as active patron of that Seminary.
Let it then for once be publicly announced, and this
                                                                     ;




 without diminishing the merit of the generous Found-
ers, that to the sagacious, originating,          and   disinterest-

ed mind of the late patriotic Lieut. Governor Phillips,
is the    world indebted for the conception of an Institu-
tion, from which so many blessings have already flow-

ed to the community.
   What       in   this   connexion merits particular          notice,

because      in    this    country     without    a   parallel,   this

gentleman         at    the early age    of twenty-one, instead
of plans for personal wealth and aggrandizes ^nt, was
planning the Constitution of yonder Academy, and de-
vising the     means of its future existence.                Yes, this
singular young man, the only surviving son of his hon-
oured Father, and the darling of his childless Uncle, by
his pious representations induced               them to devote to
this object of         his heart   no small portion of that prop-
erty, to which         himself was a natural heir.          Nor could
the anxieties and labors of public life, during our rev-
olutionary war, divert his attention from his favorite de-
sign.      For in the midst of our national distresses he
hastened into actual existence his beloved Academy.
What an example to young men of talents what an         ;



encouragement to all of every age May this monu-
                                            !



ment of his wisdom and piety be as lasting, as time
and may the expansion of it stimulate many to come
and do likewise.
   While we naturally regret, that this paragon of pub-
lic spirit   so early took his upward flight ;          we have to
bless God, that his mantle descended on those around
him   ;   and that a copious portion of the same spirit has
been granted to         others,    whom delicacy forbids me to
                                                              ;




                              10

name.      These also have come, and joined themselves
to this sacred Institution ; and largely have they brought
of the gold of Ophir to the offerings of the Lord.       May
the God of Heaven bless them ;          may they long live to
witness the good fruits of their munificence ; and here-
after may they inherit durable riches and righteousness

in that Kingdom, which shall never be moved.

     The silver and the gold are mine, saith Jehovah; and it
is   the Lord, that giveth   power      to get   wealth, and a
heart to employ it    in his service.     To Him therefore,
who worketh all things according to the counsel of his
own will, must we ultimately refer the origin and pro-
gress of this Institution ; and to that Almighty Being,
who is the sole Author of every good and perfect gift, be
ascribed all the honor and glory of this great         work
and let the Founders and all the people say,        Amen.
                 CONSTITUTION
                             OF THE

            THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY.


It having pleased the Father of lights and Author of
all   good to inspire the   late   Honorable Samuel Phillips
of    Andover   in the   County of Essex and Common-
wealth of Massachusetts Esquire,            and the late Honor-
able John Phillips of Exeter         in the County of     Rock-
ingham and      State of New-Hampshire Esquire, with

the pious determination to make " a humble dedication
" to their Heavenly Benefactor of the ability, wherewith
u He had blessed them," by laying, in the year
                                                          1778,
in    the South Parish in Andover aforesaid, the founda-
tion of a public Academy, for the instruction of youth,,

not only in the learned languages and in various useful
Arts and Sciences, but principally for the promotion of
true piety and virtue ;     — having
                             it             also pleased the In-

finite Mind, at subsequent periods,           to excite the said

John Phillips, and likewise the late Honorable William
Phillips, of Boston, in the County of Suffolk         and Com-
monwealth aforesaid Esquire,           to   make liberal provi-
sion, not only for " promoting the virtuous           and pious
" education of indigent youth of genius, and of serious
" disposition, in said Academy ;" but " more especially
" for the benefit of charity Scholars of excelling genius,
" good moral character, hopefully pious, and designed
ei
     for the great and good work of the gospel ministry,
                                                     —
                               12

" who, having acquired the most useful human Litera-
ture, may be assisted in the study of Divinity, under
" the direction of some eminent Calvinistic Minister of
" the gospel, until such time, as an able, pious, and
" orthodox Instructor    shall      be supported     in the said

" Academy, as a Professor of Divinity, by whom they
" may be taught the important and distinguishing             te-

" nets of our Holy Christian Religion"

  In pursuance therefore of the same benevolent and
pious object, and with a desire to devote a part of the
substance, with which Heaven has blessed us, to the
defense and promotion of the Christian Religion, by
making some provision for increasing the number of
learned and able defenders of the gospel of Christ, as
well as of orthodox, pious, and zealous Ministers of the
New Testament     ;   being moved by the same             Spirit,

which actuated the Founders and Benefactors afore-
said, and influenced, as we hope, by a principle of

gratitude to Go d and benevolence to man ;
   We, Phoebe Phillips of said Andover, Relict of Sam-
uel Phillips   Esquire   late Lieutenant-Governor         of the

Commonwealth aforesaid, and John Phillips, son of the
said   Samuel Phillips and Phoebe        Phillips,   do hereby
jointly   and severally obligate ourselves to erect and
finish, with all convenient- dispatch, two separate build-

ings, one of which to be three stories high, and of such

other dimensions, as to furnish convenient lodging-
rooms for fifty Students   ;    and the other building to be
two stories high, and of such dimensions, as to furnish,
in addition to a kitchen and private rooms necessary to

a Steward's family,, three public rooms, one for a dining
                               13

Hall,   one for a Chapel and Lecture room, (each suffi-
ciently    large to   accommodate    sixty Students)   and a
third for a Library, the said buildings to be located by

direction of the Trustees of Phillips Academy ;        —and
I   Samuel Abbot of Andover aforesaid Esquire, with
the same views, and in furtherance of the same design,
do hereby give, assign, and set over unto the Trustees
aforesaid    the sum of twenty thousand dollars, in trust,

as a fund for the purpose of maintaining        a Professor
of Christian Theology (reserving to myself the right of
appointing the first Professor on this Foundation) and
for the support       and encouragement of Students in Di-
vinity ;    both the said buildings and the interest or
annual income of the said sum of money to be forever
appropriated and applied       by the Trustees aforesaid for
the use and     endowment of such a public Theological
Institution in Phillips Academy, as      is herein after   des-
cribed, and    on the following express conditions, viz.
that the said Institution     be accepted by the Trustees
aforesaid, and that it be forever conducted and govern-

ed by them and their Successors in conformity to the
following     general Principles and Regulations,      which
we unitedly adopt and ratify as the Constitution of the
same, reserving to ourselves, however, during our na-
tural lives the full right jointly to   make any additional
regulations, or to alter any rule herein prescribed, pro-

vided such regulation or alteration be not prejudicial
to the true design of this Foundation, viz.

    First.     This Institution or Seminary shall be equal
ly open to Protestants       of every denomination for the
admission of young men of requisite qualifications.
                              14-

     Second.     Every candidate for admission into this
Seminary shall produce      satisfactory evidence,   that   he
possesses good natural and acquired talents, has honor-
ably completed a course of liberal education, and sus-
tains a fair moral character.      He shall also declare that
it is   his serious intention to devote himself to the work

of the gospel ministry, (unless in certain peculiar cases
it   appear to the Trustees, or a Committee of their ap-
pointment, that the object of this Institution will be
promoted by excusing a pious applicant from making
this declaration)    and exhibit proper testimonials of his
being in full communion with some Church of Christ;
in default of which he shall subscribe a declaration of
his belief of the Christian Religion.

     Third.     The Students in this Seminary shall be
aided in their preparation for the ministry by able Pro-
fessors ;   whose duty it shall   be, by public and private

instruction, to unlock the treasures of divine knowledge,

to direct the Pupils in their inquiries after sacred truth,

to guard them against religious error, and to accelerate

their acquisition of heavenly wisdom.

     Fourth.     The public instruction shall be given in
Lectures on Natural Theology, Sacred Literature, Ec-
clesiastical History,   Christian Theology,     and Pulpit
Eloquence.
     Fifth.    In the lectures on Natural Theology, the
existence, attributes, and providence of God, shall be

demonstrated     ;   the soul's   immortality and a future
state> as deducible from the light of nature,    discussed ;
the obligations of man to his Maker, resulting from the
divine perfections    and his own rational nature, enforc-
                                                                             ;




                                15

cd   ;   the great duties of social     life,   flowing from the
mutual relations of man to man, inculcated               ;       and the
several personal virtues        deduced and delineated             ;       the
whole being interspersed with remarks on the coinci-
dence between the dictates of reason and the doctrines
of revelation, in these primary points            ;   and, notwith-

standing such coincidence, the necessity and utility of
a divine revelation stated.
     Sixth.     Under the head of Sacred Literature shall
be included, lectures on the formation, preservation, and
transmission of the sacred volume           ;   on the languages,
in   which the Bible was          originally written         ;    on the
Septuagint version of the         old Testament, and on the
peculiarities of the language and style of the           new Tes-
tament, resulting from this version and other causes                         ;



on the history, character, use, and authority of the an-
cient versions       and manuscripts of the old and new
Testaments      ;   on the canons of biblical criticism                ;    on
the authenticity of the several books of the sacred Code
on the apocryphal books of both                 Testaments         ;        on
modern translations of the Bible, more particularly on
the history and character of our English version ;                         and
also critical lectures on the various readings and diffi-

cult passages in the sacred writings.

     Seventh.       Under the head of Ecclesiastical History
shall be comprised lectures          on Jewish antiquities             ;    on
the origin and extension of the Christian church in the
first three   centuries ; on the various sects and heresies
in the early ages of Christianity ; on the character                       and
writings of the fathers     ;   on the establishment of Chris-
tianity by Constantine, and its subsequent effects ;                       on
                                                                                    ;




                                               16

the     rise and progress of                 popeiy and mahometanism ;
on the corruptions of the church of Rome                                 ;    on the
grounds, progress, and doctrines of the reformation ;
on the different denominations among protestants                                ;   on
the various constitutions, discipline, and rites                             of wor-
ship, which have divided, or may still divide the Chris-

tian    church       ;       on the state and prevalence of paganism
in our world             ;       and on the     effect,   which idolatry, ma-
hometanism, and Christianity have respectively produc-
ed on individual and national character.
    Eighth.                  Under the head of Christian Theology
shall    be comprehended lectures on divine revelation ;
on the inspiration and truth of the old and new Testa-
ments, as proved by miracles, internal evidence, fulfil-
ment of prophecies, and historic facts                         ;    on the great
doctrines and duties of our holy Christian religion, to-
gether with the objections made to them by unbeliev-
ers, and the refutation of                    such objections ; more par-
ticularly on the revealed character of God, as Father,

Son, and Holy Ghost                     ;   on the fall of man and the de-
pravity of human nature ; on the covenant of grace ;
on the character, offices, atonement, and mediation of
Jesus     Christ             ;     on the character and            offices   of the
Holy Spirit      ;           on.    the scripture doctrines of regenera-
tion, justification,                 and    sanctification ;   on evangelical
repentance, faith, and obedience                      ;   on the nature and
necessity of true virtue or gospel holiness ;                          on the fu-
ture state, the immortality of soul and body, and the
eternity of future rewards and punishments, as revealed

in the gospel ;                  on the positive institutions of Christian-
ity ;   on the nature, interpretation, and use of prophecy
                                   17

and on personal religion, as a qualification for the min-
istry ;   each Lecture under this head to be preceded and
followed by prayer.
  Ninth.     Under the head of Pulpit Eloquence shall
be delivered a competent number of lectures on the
importance of oratory         ;   on the invention and disposi-
tion of topics ; on the several pails of a regular dis-

course    ;   on elegance, composition, and dignity in style          ;



on pronunciation, or the proper management of the
voice and correct gesture ;             on the immense impor-
tance of a natural manner ; on the rules to be observ-
ed in composing a sermon, and on the adaptation of the
principles and precepts of antient rhetoric to this modern

species of oration ; on the qualities in the speaker, in

his style,     and in   his delivery, necessary to a finished

pulpit Orator ;      on the methods of strengthening the
memory, and of improving in sacred eloquence                     ;   on
the character and style of the most eminent Divines and
Lest models for imitation, their respective beauties and
excellencies in thought and expression           ;   and above all,
on the transcendent simplicity, beauty, and sublimity
of the sacred writings.
  Tenth.          It shall   be the duty of the Professors, by
private instruction and advice, to aid the Students in
the acquisition of a radical and adequate knowledge of
the sacred scriptures in their original languages, and of
the old Testament in the Septuagint version ; to direct
their method of studying the Bible           and     all   other writ-
ings ;    to superintend       and animate their pursuits by
frequent inquiries and examinations, relative to their
progress jn books and knowledge             ;   to assign proper
                                             18

subjects for their first compositions, and to suggest a
natural method of treating them ; frequently and crit-

ically to examine their early productions, and in a free,

but friendly manner, to point out their defects and er-
rors, in grammar, method, reasoning, style,                         and   senti-

ment        ;   to improve them in the important art of read-

ing, and to give them opportunities of speaking in pub-

lic,   favoring them with their candid remarks on their
whole manner             ;       to explain intricate texts of scripture,

referred to            them       ;   to solve cases of conscience ; to

watch over their health and morals with paternal solici-
tude    ;       and by every prudent and              christian     method to
promote the growth of true piety in their hearts                           ;   to

give them friendly advice with relation to their neces-
sary intercourse among men in the various walks of life,
and especially with respect to the manner, in which it
becomes a minister of the meek and lowly Jesus to
address both God and man, whether in the assembly
of his saints, or in the chamber of sickness and of death.
   Eleventh.                      Every Professor       in   this   Seminary
shall be a Master of Arts,                    of the Protestant reformed
religion,         in   communion with some Christian church
of the Congregational or Presbyterian denomination,,
and sustain the character of a sober, honest, learned,
and pious man                ;    he shall moreover be a man of sound
and orthodox principles in Divinity, according to that
form of sound words or system of evangelical doc-
trines, drawn from the scriptures, and denominated the

Westminster- Assembly's shorter Catechism, and more
concisely          delineated           in   the   Constitution of Phillips

Academy.
                                    19

      Twelfth.            Every person therefore, appointed or
 elected a Professor in this Seminary, shall          on the day
 of his inauguration, and in the presence of the said
Trustees, publicly           make and subscribe a solemn de-
claration of his faith in divine revelation, and in the

fundamental and distinguishing doctrines of the gospel
of Christ, as summarily expressed in the Westmin-
ster Assembly's shorter Catechism ;              and he shall far-
thermore solemnly promise, that he will open and ex-
plain the Scriptures to his Pupils with integrity and

faithfulness        ;   that he will maintain   and inculcate the
christian faith, as         above expressed, together with all
the other doctrines and duties of our holy religion, so

far as      may appertain to his office, according to the best
light       God shall give him, and in opposition, not only to
Atheists and Infidels, but to Jews, Mahometans, Arianc,
Pelagians, Antinomians, Arminians, Socinians, Unita-
rians, and Universalists,         and to all other heresies and
errors, antient or modem,           which may be opposed to
the gospel of Christ,            or hazardous to the souls of
men     ;   —   that by his instruction, counsel, and   example,
he will endeavour to promote true Piety and Godliness;
that he will consult the good of this Institution and the

peace of the churches of our Lord Jesus Christ on
all   occasions ; and that he will religiously observe the
Statutes of this Institution, relative to his official duties
and deportment, and all such other Statutes and Laws
as shall be constitutionally         made by the Trustees of
Phillips Academy, not repugnant thereto.

      Thirteenth.            The preceding declaration shall be
repeated        by every Professor in this Seminary, in the
                                                                  ;




                                 20

presence of the said Trustees, at the expiration of" ev-
ery successive period of five years ;           and no man shall
be continued a Professor in           this Institution,   who shall
not continue to approve himself, to the satisfaction of
the said Trustees, a man of sound and orthodox princi-
ples in Divinity, agreeably to the system of evangelical

doctrines, contained in the aforesaid Catechism.               Ac-
cordingly,     if   at   any meeting regularly appointed,        it

should be proved to the satisfaction of a majority of
the whole number of the said Trustees, that any Pro-
fessor in this Institution has taught or embraced any of

the heresies or errors, alluded to in the Declaration
aforesaid ; or, should he refuse to repeat the same, as

herein required, he shall be forthwith removed from
office.

   Fourteenth.             Every Professor in this Institution
shall     be under the immediate inspection of the said
Trustees, and by them be removed, agreeably to the
will of his Founder, for gross neglect of duty, scanda-

lous immorality, mental incapacity, or any other just
and sufficient cause.
   Fifteenth.             Whenever a Professor in this Semi-
nary shall be removed by death or otherwise, the said
Trustees shall elect a successor within twelve months.
   Sixteenth.             The Trustees aforesaid, in conform-
ity to the statutes of every Founder, shall assign to the

Professors in this Seminary their respective departments
of instruction, the times for reading their lectures, and
their several public and private duties, in such manner,

as, after consultation with the said Professors, shall to

the said Trustees appear most convenient and useful
                                                               -




                               21

provided however, that the course of lectures in each
department be always completed within the space of
three years.

  Seventeenth.           The necessary expences of indi-
gent Students at this Seminary, for board, lodging,
washing, fuel, and light, will be defrayed out of funds
appropriated to this purpose, agreeably to the regula-
tions, in   such case provided, and as said funds          may
permit.

  Eighteenth.           No person shall be admitted a Stu
dent on the charitable Foundation, who          is   not distin-
guished by natural 'abilities? literary acquirements, un-
blemished morals, and hopeful piety        ;   a certificate of
which qualities will be required from known and res-
pectable characters, in order to the enjoyment of this
charity.

  Nineteenth.           To be entitled to the maintenance
aforesaid, each     Student on the charitable Foundation,
unless prevented by sickness, must reside at this Semi-
nary nine months at least in each year, regularly            at-

tending the exercises aforesaid as well, as diligently
prosecuting the studies prescribed, and in        all   respects
conforming to the rules of this Constitution, and to the
laws and orders of the said Trustees.
   Twentieth.          Whatever may be the number of
vacations, the aggregate thereof shall not exceed eight

weeks in any one year      ;   and the constant presence of
the Professors and Students will be expected in term

time.

  Twenty-first.           Every Student in this Seminary
shall constantly,   punctually, and seriously attend the
                                          22

religious exercises of the chapel morning and evening,

and all the public lectures of the several Professors                        ;




and, to increase the reverence due to religious institu-
tions as well, as to give weight to public instruction,

it is      expected, that the Professors not only frequent the
chapel at morning and evening prayers, but that they
constantly attend each other's public lectures.
         Tw e n t y   - s   e cond.     Every Student in this Semina-
ry is required to devote so much time to the study of
the learned languages, as shall increase his knowledge
of them,           especially of the            Greek and Hebrew       lan-

guages ; to pay due attention to Philology, Rhetoric, and
Oratory        ;   to read the best treatises on natural          and re-
vealed Religion, and on the fundamental doctrines of
the Gospel ; to make himself master of the principal
arguments and evidences of the truth of Christianity ;
to pay        due attention to          ecclesiastical History,   and to
the canons of biblical Criticism.                   But above all, it is
required, that he make the Bible the object of his most
attentive, diligent, and prayerful study.

     Twenty-third.                    It will   be the duty of the Pro-
fessors in this Seminary to prepare a list of such books,

and to point out such a course of study, as in their
opinion may be most congenial to the true design of
this Institution, and most beneficial to the                Students in
it   ;    which list of books and course of study, being ap-
proved by said Trustees, said Students                   shall   pursue ;
they shall also frequently ask the advice and assistance
of the Professors with reference to their studies                  ;   and
often submit their theological compositions, especially
                               23

their first essays, to the friendly inspection and faithful

remarks of one or more of the said Professors.
  Twenty-fourth.              Each Student, once at least in
every year, shall acquaint the Professors with the books,
he has read, and with his course of study, during said
year ; and shall also be examined in the original lan-
guages of the old and new Testament,              and   in the
Septuagint version of the former       ;   also with reference

to the leading sentiments and arguments of the princi-

pal authors, he has perused ; but especially with res-

pect to the style, character, and design of those sacred
writers, which agreeably to direction         he has particu-
larly studied.

  Twenty-fifth.          If   upon due and impartial ex-
amination it be found, that any Student on the charita-
ble Foundation aforesaid, has not made reasonable pro-

ficiency in the studies prescribed him, he shall be con-

tinued thereon no longer ; and, if any Student whatever
in this Seminary shall be guilty of any gross immorali-

ty, or of any insult or oppugnation to the said Trustees,

or to any Professor or Officer of this Seminary, he shall

be cut off from all the advantages and benefits of this
Institution, unless he   make reasonable and immediate
satisfaction for his offence.

  Twenty-sixth.          Whenever a Student shall have
honorably finished his term and course of study under
the direction of the Professors, and such Student shall
request it, a Certificate, signed by the Professors, speci-
fying   how long such Student has studied under the
direction, and attended the lectures of the Professors,

that he has prosecuted his studies with diligence, and
                               24

sustained a good moral character, shall be given him :
provided always, that his conduct, and his proficiency
in theological knowledge be such, as to merit the same.
   Twenty-seventh.             After the expiration        of the
first three years from the opening of this Institution, it

will be required of all persons,      who may wish to enjoy
the advantages of the same, that they statedly reside at
the Seminary three full years, vacations excepted              ;   a
period scarcely sufficient for acquiring that fund of
knowledge, which      is   necessary for a minister of the
gospel.     No Student therefore, after the expiration of
the first three years of the Institution, shall be entitled
to the Certificate aforesaid, nor can any           one leave the
Seminary in an honorable manner, within the term of
three years of such residence, except          by permission,
specially obtained of the Trustees, in case of necessity.

   Twenty-eighth.            Every morning and evening,
during term time, religious exercises shall be performed
in trhe chapel, and these exercises shall usually be, as fol-

lows.     The divine assistance and blessing shall be first
implored in a short prayer       ;   a devotional chapter or
psalm shall then be read, accompanied with pious and
practical reflections ;    or, instead of this,     once at least
in every week, an exposition shall be given upon some

deeply interesting passage of scripture         ;    to this shall

succeed a piece of genuine psalmody        ;   and the services
be concluded by an appropriate prayer.               In these ex-
ercises the Professors shall preside and ordinarily          offi-

ciate ;   but Students of two years standing          may occa-
sionally perform them in whole or in part, according to
                                25

the desire and direction of the Professors.             Moreover,
as soon as circumstances will permit, a regular church

will be formed in this Seminary, consisting chiefly               of
the Professors, Students, and families, connected with

this Seminary       and Phillips Academy    ;   after    which,   if

not before, divine services will be publicly celebrated
in the chapel of the Seminary, in the forenoon            and af-
ternoon of every Lord 's-day during term time.
                                  ,                        These
services shall be usually performed        by the Professors,
but sometimes by such senior Students, as may have
obtained permission of the Professors to preach occa-
sionally   ;   and they shall be attended by all the Students
of this Institution, and by as many of the families of
the Professors and Officers, connected with it, or with
Phillips Academy, as may wish for this privilege, and

by as many pupils of said Academy, as may be deem-
ed expedient by the Trustees aforesaid.
   Twenty -ninth.           The senior Students will be re-
quired, not only to prepare sermons, but occasionally

to deliver them in public, both in the Seminary and in

neighbouring congregations, as        may be judged expe-
dient   by the said Professors.       No Student, however,
shall   presume to preach,      before,   upon thorough ex-
amination of his qualifications and motives for preach-
ing, he shall have obtained a written permission there-

for,   subscribed by the Professors, or the major part of
them.      This permission, however, is never           to super-
sede die customary approbation or license of some re-
gular Association or Presbytery.
                               26

  Thirtieth.          Sacred Music, and especially Psalm-
ody, being an important part of public, social worship,
and, as it is proper for those, who are to preside in the
assemblies of God's people, to possess themselves so
much skill and taste in this sublime art, as at least to
distinguish between those solemn         movements, which
are congenial to pious minds, and those unhallowed,
trifling,   medley pieces, which    chill devotion   ;   it is   ex-
pected, that serious attention will be paid to the culture
of a true taste for genuine Church Music in this Semi-
nary ; and that all Students therein, who have tolerable
voices, will be duly instructed in the theory        and prac-
tice of this celestial art ;   and, whenever   it   shall   be in
the power of either of the said Professors, it shall ac-

cordingly be his duty to afford this necessary instruc-
tion ; and,     whenever this   shall not be the case, it is

expected, that an Instructor will be procured for this
purpose.
   Thirty- first.        All Professors, Officers, and Stu-
dents in this Seminary, and all other persons employed
in its service, together with the     Lands, Buildings, Li-
brary, Funds, and all other property, thereto belong-
 ng      shall be under the immediate inspection and             gov-
ernment of the Trustees aforesaid, and be regulated
and managed by them in strict conformity to this Con-
stitution, and to the Statutes and     Will of every Foun-

 der of a Professorship, or Benefactor of this Institu-
 tion.      And the said Trustees are hereby authorized and
empowered to make such additional Regulations, (not
 inconsistent with the Regulations established              in this

 Constitution, nor with the Statutes or #7/7 of any Fotm-
                            27

der or Donor, nor with the object of this Institution, noi
in any degree avoiding them or either of them) as they
in their wisdom shall deem necessary to give the fullest

efficacy to these provisions, or the consistent provisions

of future Benefactors ; whether such Regulations may
relate to the conduct of the Professors, the government

of the Students, their various duties and exercises, their
lodging and diet, the prevention and punishment of of-
fences, the preservation of health, the promotion of or-

der, peace, and harmony, to the safety of the buildings,

or to the security of the Funds, which last are to be
effectually guarded against all loss and diminution               ;   in

a word, to do every thing, under the foregoing limita-
tions, which, upon serious and mature deliberation, may

appear to them necessary to secure and promote the
true object of this Institution.
  Thirty-second.         Notwithstanding this Seminary
is placed,   by this Constitution, under the immediate
care and government of the Trustees of Phillips Acad-
emy, it is always to be understood, and             it   is   hereby
expressly declared, that every Founder of a Professor-
ship, Scholarship, or any other Living whatever, in this

Institution, will have the exclusive right of prescribing

the Regulations   and Statutes, to be observed by the
said Trustees in conducting the concerns of the same,

said Regulations and Statutes being always consistent

with the principles and object of this Institution            ;   and
also the right of appointing,      in the original        deed or
grant for the term of his    life,   such   local    Visitor or
Visitors, as he may think proper, and to endow him or

them with all visitatorial powers and authorities, neces-
                             28

sary to secure and enforce due observance and execu-
tion of his said Regulations and Statutes.

  Thirty-third.           Whereas the necessary business
of this Seminary will be sufficient to employ the said
Trustees one day at least in every year ; they are re-
quested to hold an annual meeting for transacting the
same, on such day in each year, as they may appoint ;
and likewise to meet as much oftener, as the good of
said Seminary may require ;       and at each annual meet-
ing to read this Constitution.     The rules and modes of
doing business at all such meetings shall be the same,
mutatis mutandis, which are prescribed in the Consti-
tution of Phillips Academy.       Decent, not extravagant
entertainment, shall be     made for the Trustees, while
attending the said meetings, reasonable compensation
made to the Treasurer of said Academy, for his ser-
vices, and other necessary expenses of this Institution

defrayed out of the income of its funds.       It is also par-

ticularly requested, that all the transactions of the said

Trustees, relative to the said Theological Institution r
be recorded in a distinct book     ;   and likewise that all
property given, devised, or bequeathed for the support
of this Seminary, be separated and forever kept distinct
from all other property, to the Trustees aforesaid in
any way or for any other purpose entrusted, being
never blended therewith in any part or degree, by loan
or purchase ; and that the said Treasurer accordingly
keep   all   his   accounts and entries,   relative to these

Funds, in distinct books, and all monies, evidences of
property, receipts, papers, and books of account, ap-
pertaining to this Institution, in a separate trunk or
                                                               ;




                               29

chest, prepared for prompt removal on any emergence            ;




and that the accounts of said Treasurer be annualh
audited by a Committee, for this purpose appointed,
who shall report to the said Trustees in writing.
  Thirty-fourth. Confiding in the wisdom and
fidelity of the    said Trustees    and   their Successors in

office, and   with the pleasing hope and expectation, that
they will religiously appropriate the aforesaid buildings
and the income of the aforesaid Fund, and of all future
Donations for the same pious purpose, to the great
object of supporting a theological Seminary, such as
herein contemplated and described, agreeably to the
principles and regulations contained in this Constitution

we do now, under God, cheerfully commit this our
Foundation to their pious and watchful care, trusting
that     no exertion on their part will be wanting to the
success of an Institution, so intimately connected with
the glory of God, the advancement of the Redeemer's
kingdom, and the salvation of their fellow men.
   But, while     we thus express our conviction of the
necessity and utility of this Institution, it is our earnest
prayer, that our     own minds, and the minds of the
Trustees,      Professors,   Students,    and   all   connected
therewith, may be ever penetrated by a deep sense of
the necessity of the divine direction,          influence,   and
blessing, to render even the wisest provisions and the

best human instructions ultimately successful.
   To the Spirit of truth, to the divine Author of our
faith,   to the only wise    God, we desire in sincerity to
present this our    humble offering   :   devoutly imploring
the Father of lights richly to endue with wisdom from
                                 30

above all his servants the Trustees of this Seminary,
and with spiritual understanding the Professors there-
in,   that,   being illuminated by the Holy Spirit^ their
doctrine may drop as the rain, and their speech distil
as the dew     ;   and that   their Pupils   may become trees
of renown in the courts of our God, whereby He may
be glorified.
  In witness whereof we the subscribers have hereunto
set our hands and seals this thirty first day of August

in the year of our       Lord one thousand eight hundred
and seven.
                              PHCEBE PHILLIPS,          (S)
                              JOHN PHILLIPS, Jun. (S)
                              SAMUEL ABBOT.             (S)
Signed, sealed, and delivered
    in presence of
  SAMUEL STEARNS,
  JOSEPH PHELPS,
  AMOS BLANCHARD.
                                                       —



         ADDITIONAL STATUTES.



We the      subscribers, having made some provision for.
the establishment of a Theological Institution in con-
nexion with Phillips Academy, by covenanting to erect
certain buildings therefor, and   by laying a Foundation
for a Professorship of Christian Theology therein,    and
having given a Constitution, containing principles and
regulations for the management of the said Institution,
which has been accepted by the Trustees of said
Academy, in which we " reserved to ourselves, during
" our natural lives, the right jointly to make any ad-
" ditional regulations, or to alter any rule therein pre-
" scribed, provided such regulation or alteration be not
" prejudicial to the true design of said Foundation"
We do now, agreeably to the said reserved right, and
in furtherance, as we trust, of our original design there-

in expressed, make and ordain the following articles, to

be added to, and taken, as a part of our said Constitu-
tion ;   Provided the said Trustees shall accept the Sta-
tutes    and Foundation of the Associate Founders,
so called, viz, of Moses Brown and WilliamBart-
let Esquires of Newbury Port and the Honorable
John Norris Esquire of Salem, which are now exe-
cuted, and to be laid before the said Trustees, at their
approaching meeting, for their acceptance                    ;   and to con-
tinue of full force, as a part of our said Constitution, so
long as the said Associate Foundation                       shall   continue
attached to our said Institution, and no longer.
   First.               Having provided          in the twelfth Article of

our said Constitution, that " every person, appoint-
ed or elected a Professor in the said Seminary, shall
" on the day of his inauguration publicly                         make and
" subscribe a declaration of his                    faith in divine revela-
" tion, and in the fundamental and distinguishing doc-
" trines of the Gospel of Christ, as summarily expres-
" sed in the Westminster Assembly's Shorter Cate-

"chism ;"               We now ordain the following addition, to
be inserted in said Article, in connexion with the said
clause, viz,            '
                            and as more particularly expressed in the
following Creed, to wit,
   *
       I believe that there is one and but one living and true

God      ;    that the word of God, contained in the Scrip-

tures of the Old and New Testament, is the only per-
fect rule of faith and practice ; that agreeably to those

Scriptures God is a Spirit, infinite, eternal, and un-
changeable in his being, wisdom, power, holiness, jus-
tice,   goodness, and truth ;                    that in the Godhead are

three Persons, the Father, the Son,                        and the    Holy
Ghost             ;   and that these      Three are One God, the
same         in       substance, equal in         power and glory     ;   that

Go d created man after his own image in knowledge,
righteousness, and holiness that the glory of God is
                                            ';




man's chief end, and the enjoyment of God his su-
preme happiness                ;   that this enjoyment is derived solely

from conformitv of heart to the moral character and
                                                                            ;




will of     God    ;       that Adam, the federal head           and repre-
sentative of the human race, was placed in a state of

probation, and that in consequence of his disobedience
all   his descendants were constituted sinners ; that                     by
nature every man is personally depraved, destitute of
holiness, unlike                and opposed to God, and that pre-
viously to the renewing agency of the Divine Spirit
all   his moral actions are adverse to the character                     and
glory of God               ;    that, being morally incapable of re-

covering the image of his Creator, which was lost in
Adam, every man is justly exposed to eternal damna-
tion so that, except a man be born again, he cannot
        ;



see the kingdom of God                   ;   that God, of his mere good

pleasure, from all eternity elected some to everlasting
life,   and that he entered              into a covenant of grace to

deliver them out of this state of sin and misery                        by a
Redeemer          ;        that the only Redeemer of the elect is

the eternal Son of God, who for this purpose became
man, and continues to be God and man in two distinct
natures and one person forever ; that Christ, as our
Redeemer, executeth the                      office   of a Prophet, Priest,
and King     ;    that, agreeably to the covenant of                 redemp-
tion, the Son of God,                 and he alone, by        his suffering
and death, has made atonement for the sins of all men
that repentance, faith, and holiness are the personal re-

quisites in the Gospel                 scheme of salvation       ;   that the
righteousness of Christ is the only ground of a sin-
ner's justification ; that this righteousness is received

through faith          ;       and that this faith is the gift of God       ;


so diat our salvation is wholly of grace ; that no means
whatever can change the heart of a sinner and make b
                                                    34

holy       ;   that regeneration and sanctification are effects of

the creating and renewing agency of the Holy Spirit,
and that supreme love to God constitutes the essential
difference             between             saints    and sinners       ;   that   by con-
vincing us of our sin and misery, enlightening our
minds, working                   faith in           us, and    renewing our wills,
the Holy Spirit makes us partakers of the benefits
of redemption              ;    and that the ordinary means, by which
these benefits are communicated to us, are the word,
sacraments, and prayer                        ;   that repentance unto life, faith

to feed upon Christ, love to God, and new obedience,

are the appropriate qualifications for the Lord's sup-
per    ;       and that a Christian Church ought to admit no
person to its holy communion, before he exhibit credi-
ble evidence of his godly sincerity ; that perseverance
in holiness is the only                       method of making our calling
and election sure                 ;        and that the       final   perseverance of
saints, though                 it is       the effect of the special operation
of God on their hearts, necessarily implies their own
watchful diligence                     ;    that they, who are effectually cal-

led,       do        in this life          partake of justification, adoption,
and sanctification, and the several                              benefits, which       do
either accompany or flow from them                                     ;   that the souls

of believers are at their death made perfect in holiness,
and do immediately pass into glory                               ;    that their bodies,

being still united to Christ, will at the resurrection
be raised up to glory, and that the saints will be made
perfectly blessed in the full enjoyment of                                   God to all
eternity         ;    but that the wicked will awake to shame and
everlasting contempt, and with devils be plunged into

the lake, that burnetii with fire and brimstone forever
                                      35

and ever.       I   moreover believe that God, according to
the counsel of his own will, and for his own glory, hath
foreordained whatsoever               comes to pass, and that all
beings, actions, and events both in the natural and
moral world are under his providential direction                  ;   that

God's decrees perfectly consist with human liberty                          ;



God's universal agency with the agency of man                     ;    and
man's dependence with                his accountability ; that        man
has understanding and corporeal strength to do all, that
God requires of him        ;    so that nothing, but the sinner's
aversion to holiness, prevents his salvation           ;   that       it   is

the prerogative of God to bring good out of evil, and

that he will cause the wrath               and rage of wicked men
and devils to praise him         ;    and that all the evil, which
has existed, and which will forever exist in the moral
system, will eventually be              made to promote a most
important purpose under the wise and perfect adminis-
tration of that     Almighty Being, who will cause all
things to work for his own glory, and thus fulfil all his
pleasure.'

  Second.           That the trust aforesaid may be always
executed agreeably to the true intent of our said Foun-
dation   ;   and that we   may effectually guard the same,
in all future time, against all perversion, or the smal-

lest avoidance of      our true design, as therein expres-
sed   —We do hereby        constitute a Board of       Visitors,
to be, as in our place and stead, the Guardians,              Over-
seers, and Protectors          of our said Foundation, in man-
ner, as is expressed in the following provisions, that is

to say, we appoint and constitute the Honorable Caleb
Strong Esquire late Governor of the Commonwealth
                               36

of Massachusetts, the Reverend        Timothy Dwight
D. D. President of Yale College, and the Reverend
Samuel Spring of Newburyport Doctor of Divinity,
Visitors of the said Foundation who with their
                                          ;



successors in    office, to   be chosen as herein       after di-

rected, shall be a perpetual body for this purpose, with

all the powers and duties in     them herein vested, and on
them enjoined     ;   but   we do   nevertheless reserve to
Samuel Abbot, one of the subscribers, the right of
visiting, in connexion with the said Board, and during

his natural life, the said Foundation ;       and we do more-
over confer on Moses Brown and William Bart-
let Esquires of Newbury Port, and the Honorable
John Norris Esquire of Salem, the Associate Foun-
ders above named, the right of visiting the said Foun-
dation in the same manner with the said Samuel Ab-
bot, during their natural       lives respectively ;    each of
the said four Founders so long, as he shall retain his
seat at the Board, shall possess       and exercise all the
rights and powers, herein given to a Visitor of the said

Foundation   ;   though upon the resignation or demise
of either of the said Founders, his place shall not be
supplied by election of a Visitor to succeed him ; and,
after the demise or resignation of the said four persons,

last above   named as Founders, the said Board shall
never consist of more than three members            ;   and it is
farther expressly provided, that the perpetual Board of

Visitors, first herein named, shall consist of two Cler-

gymen and one Layman, all of whom shall be men of
distinguished talents and piety.
                                   37

  Third.       We do farther provide and ordain, that
no person shall be eligible, as a Visitor, under the age
of forty years ;    nor shall any person, except the seven
herein just named, hold the office of Visitor after the
age of seventy years        ;   and whenever, with the excep-
tion aforesaid,     any Visitor         shall   have completed the
sixty-ninth year of his age, the Board shall, within the
year next ensuing, choose some suitable person to suc-
ceed him ; but the Visitor elect shall not take his seat
at the Board, before his said Predecessor shall                    have
completed his seventieth year, or formally resigned his
office of Visitor ;    and no resignation of any member
at an earlier age shall         be accepted by this Board, be-
fore a Successor shall have been chosen.

  Fourth.          The Board of Visitors shall meet on the
seventeenth day of May current at Andover, and ever
after once in     every year at the aforesaid Theological
Institution, to     execute the business of their appoint-
ment, on such day, as they shall assign                 ;   also   upon
emergencies,  when called thereto, as herein after di-
rected ;and a majority of the Visitors, when regularly
convened, shall be a Quorum, of which Quorum a
major part shall have power to transact the business of
their Commission, and in case of an equivote, the ques-

tion shall determine on that side,              on which the presid-
ing member shall have voted.
   Fifth.     There shall be annually chosen by ballot
a President and Secretary, as officers of the Board out
of their own number, who shall continue in their res-
pective offices,     till   their places        be supplied by new
                                38

elections, and upon the decease of either of' them, an-

other shall be chosen in his room at the next meeting.
     Sixth.    The President, or in case of his death, re-
signation, or absence from the country, the Secretary

shall,   upon all necessary occasions,       call special meet-

ings of the Board ; and his notifications shall express
the business to be transacted at such meetings, and be
given as early as possible       ;   and in the absence of the
President, at any meeting, the Secretary shall preside.
     Seventh.        The Secretary shall keep a fair record
of all the transactions of the Visitors at every meeting
of the Board, inserting the names of the members pre-
sent ;   and in his absence another shall be appointed in
his room.

     Eighth.        The Visitors shall remove any member
of their Board for immorality, incapacity, or signal
neglect of duty.
     Ninth.        Upon the death, resignation, or removal
of a Visitor, (except only upon the demise or resigna-
tion of a Founder) the Board of Visitors shall at their

next meeting, by ballot, elect another in his stead ; and
ever after from time to time, as a vacancy shall take
place in this Board, they shall supply          it   ;    and every
person so elected, previously to his taking his seat at
the Board, shall make and subscribe the following De-
claration, namely      ;
                           " Approving the Constitution of the
" Theological Institution, I solemnly declare                 in the

" presence of God and of this Board, that                I will faith-

tl
     fully exert   my abilities to carry into execution the
" Regulations therein contained, and to promote the
" great object of the Institution ;"      —And he        shall more-
                                39

over in like manner subscribe the same theological
Creed, which every Professor elect is required to sub-
scribe ; and a declaration of his faith in the same Creed

shall be repeated by him at every        successive period of
live years ;   and, if in the course of events the number
of Visitors shall, by any special providence of God, be
reduced to one, the remaining Visitor shall have power
to appoint one suitable person to be a Visitor of the

said Foundation    ;   and these two Visitors shall at their
first regular meeting supply the       remaining vacancy in
the Board.

  Tenth.        The power and duties of the Board of
Visitors, thus constituted and organized, shall be, as

follows, namely, to visit the said Foundation           once    in

every year, and at other times,        when regularly called
thereto ; to inquire into the state of the said fund and
the management of the said Foundation with respect
to the said Professor ; to determine, interpret, and ex-
plain the statutes of the said Foundation in        all     cases,

brought before them in their judicial capacity          ;   to re-

dress grievances with respect to the said Professor ; to
hear appeals from decisions of the Board of Trustees,
and to remedy upon complaint, duly exhibited                in be-

half of the said Professor ; to review and reverse any

censure passed by said Trustees upon any Professor
on said Foundation      ;   to declare void all rules   and re-
gulations, made by the said Trustees, relative to said

Foundation, which may be inconsistent with the origi-
nal Statutes thereof ; to take care, that the duties            of
each Professor on said Foundation be intelligibly and
faithfully discharged, and to admonish or remove him,
                             40

either   for   misbehaviour, heterodoxy, incapacity, or
neglect of the     duties of his office ;   and in general to
see that our true intentions as expressed in our said
Constitution in relation to said Professor, be faithfully
executed, always administering justice impartially, and
exercising the functions of their office in the fear of
God, according to these Regulations, the Provisions
of the said Constitution, and the Laws of the land.
  Eleventh.          Every election of a Professor on said
Foundation shall within ten days be presented to the
Visitors ;     who are hereby vested with the power and
right of approving or negativing, at a regular meeting,

every such election.      But, if any such election be not
thus either approved or negatived by the said Visitors
within twelve months from the          commencement of a
vacancy in said Professorship, such election         shall   be
considered, as approved      by   the Visitors, and shall ac-

cordingly be deemed constitutional and valid ; provid-
ed always, that such election shall have been regularly
communicated to the President or Secretary of the
Board of Visitors ten days        at least previously to the

expiration of the twelve months aforesaid.
  Twelfth.          The Board of Visitors in all their pro-
ceedings are to be subject to our Statutes herein ex-
pressed, and to those contained in our said Constitu-
tion, and to conform their measures accordingly ;        and,

if they shall at any time act     contrary thereto, or exceed

the limits of their jurisdiction and constitutional power,
the party aggrieved     may have recourse by appeal to
the Justices of the     Supreme Judicial Court of this
Commonwealth        for the time being for remedy, who
                                41

are hereby appointed and authorized to     judge    in such

case, and, agreeably to the determination of the major

part of them, to declare null and void any decree or
sentence of the said Visitors, which upon mature con-
sideration they may deem contrary to the said Statutes,

or beyond the just limits of their power, herein pre-
scribed ; and by the said Justices of the    Supreme Ju-
dicial Court for the time being shall the said Board of

Visitors at all times be subject to be restrained and
corrected in the undue exercise of their office.
      Thirteenth.      At all meetings of the Visitors de-
cent entertainment shall be     made by direction of the
Board, and at the expense of the Foundation.
      Finally.    Commending the said Institution and
all   concerned in the management thereof to the blessing
of Heaven, and in witness of what is contained in this
and the preceding pages, we hereunto       set   our hands
and seals, this third day of May in the year of our
Lord, one thousand eight hundred and eight.
                         SAMUEL ABBOT,              (S.)

                         PHCEBE PHILLIPS,           (S.)

                         JOHN PHILLIPS, Jun. (S.)
Signed, sealed, and delivered
  in presence of us,

  MOSES WOOD,
  AMOS BLANCHARD.
PREFACE OF THE ASSOCIATE STATUTES.



The interesting object now before us requires serious
and impartial consideration.             The open volume of na-
ture is full of divine instruction ; but, destitute of the
more luminous volume of inspiration, the whole world
must have remained             in   pagan darkness and supersti-
tion.    Both the present and past               state      of heathen na-
tions manifestly evinces the necessity of special revela-

tion.     It    is   the   word of God       ;    it   is   the gospel of
Christ, which in the course of divine administration
makes the moral            difference   between rude pagans and
devout Christians.           What benevolent mind, while con-
templating the superior advantages of the church, does
not weep over the millions of ignorant men, who are
perishing for lack of vision ?           What Christian does not
commisserate the destitute in all sections of the globe,
and devoutly pray that, agreeably to Christ's injunc-
tion, the gospel       may soon be preached to every crea-
ture ?    How long, alas, shall the greatest part of the
human race remain unacquainted with the gospel !
How long shall they continue unbelievers " But how            !



shall    they believe        in him,    of   whom           they have not
heard ?        And how shall they hear without a preacher ?
And how shall they preach, except they be sent ?"
And how can preachers be consistently sent unless                 ?
                              44

properly qualified ?     And, at this day of increasing er-
ror and delusion, how can they acquire proper qualifi-
cations to stem the torrent of infidelity and corruption,
unless furnished with greater theological advantages,
than have been generally enjoyed in our country ?         The
numerous obstacles, which some eminent men have
laboriously surmounted, in qualifying themselves for
the sacred office,   and the numerous difficulties, which
Others have been unable to remove, present a powerful
argument for the establishment of a Theological Insti-
tution. The church at this day of boasted light, though
in reality a day of great moral darkness,         spreads forth

her trembling hands, and in plaintive accents asks for
help.   She greatly needs and urgently requests more
able candidates, missionaries, and pastors ; and shall
her pressing request, supported by the            Lord of the
harvest, be disregarded ?      Is   it   not an impressive, hu-

miliating consideration, thatmany young men are in-
ducted into the sacred office, who are furnished with
much less appropriate information, than is reputable,
or admissible in the other learned professions ?        To the
lasting honor of the bar and of the medical faculty they

 neither admit, nor recognize any, except men of talents

 and erudition.      Property and health are deemed too
 precious to be trusted in the hands of weakness or
 ignorance.   But what is the value of property, health,
 or life, compared with that of immortal souls ?          Alas,

 shall the pulpit sigh    and groan ?       Shall infidels sneer

 and triumph ?    And shall Satan take advantage of heed-
 less sinners, because authorised teachers depreciate the

 gospel by their inability    to defend it ?      God forbid      !
                               45

The priests' lips should keep knowledge, and the am-
bassadors of Christ in their official capacity ought not
to be inferior to the      ambassadors of temporal princes.
Their office is sacred, and involves much higher res-
ponsibility.They plead and administer for Christ
and immortal souls. They stand between heaven and
earth, and must be qualified to honor      God by correct-
ly delivering his message to man.         Who is sufficient
for these things ?     Who can render to God the things,
that are God's, and rightly divide the word of truth to

the different classes of    men, unless properly qualified ?
But by what eligible, effectual measure can ministerial
and evangelical influence be reclaimed and supported ?
How can devout candidates most successfully acquire
theological reputation ? By what means can they be
                                         The question
qualified to magnify the pastoral office ?

is highly interesting to Zion and the souls of men.

The answer is ready, if not anticipated. By gratuitous
theological establishments they       must have ample op-
portunity and advantages to pursue their studies.          Up-
on due reflection this appears a correct expedient, and
the best measure, that can be adopted at the present

day.     Merely to glance at the deep and sublime things
of divinity six months, or a year, is not sufficient to
qualify    young men for the gospel ministry.            To fill
the pastoral office with dignity and utility,       by wisely
 unfolding and applying the truth to saints and sinners,
 much previous study and information          are     requisite.

 Three years unwearied application to theology, which
 is   only half the term required    by the church of Scot-
 land,    is   barely sufficient.   The   extensive    field   of
                                 46

divinity,    so   full    of hidden treasures, cannot be duly
explored by young men of piety and ability within a
shorter term.       And what youth, of genius and grace
can more profitably employ his time ?            No considerate
young man, who wishes to spend his life in dispensing
truth to others, will think three years too long for lay-
ing the foundation of theological science.              To those,
who desire to excel in doing good, the term will ap-
pear but a.few days.
   The common embarrassments of theological Stu-
dents, the pressing and imperious demand for qualified
laborers to reap the extensive and increasing harvest,
which opens before us, compel us to contemplate the
necessity and utility of a gratuitous theological Institu-
tion.     To raise up a long and uninterrupted succession
of able, devout ministers for the defense of the gos-
pel, to   adorn the church, and to honor Christ, by
cooperating with him in reclaiming sinners,            is the true

design of the Institution.
   Motives to unite the hearts of all devout and orthodox
men in promoting the interest of the Institution are
numerous. The daring strides, made at the present
day by infidels and other erroneous men  the urgent;



necessity of a learned and pious ministry, to check and
countervail       their   dangerous influence,    is   no   inferior

motive to combine the efforts of all the faithful.             But
there are other considerations equally impressive.              For
is it not   worthy of grateful notice, that the concurrent
events of the present period induce a belief, that the
set time to build         up Zion is at hand ?     If we do not

greatly mistake the import of prophecy and correspond-
                                                                 ;




                              47

ing events, we live near the termination of the dark-
ness,   which has long enveloped the church and the
world   ;   and as near the commencement of Zion's
permanent prosperity and glory.          The numerous mis-
sionary and humane Institutions, lately established and
crowned with       signal   success,    are     indications, that

Christ is preparing the way for                the millenial   ex-
pression of his benevolence.             we therefore see
                                       Shall

his star in the east ?   Shall we behold the glorious Re-

deemer coming to collect the precious fruits of the
cross ? Shall the Lord of the harvest call for able and
faithful laborers ;   and   shall   we not concur with his
gracious requisition ? Surely a wide and effectual door
is   open to do good.    And shall we disregard the mani-
fest call of Providence ?    If we withhold our exertions,

deliverance will arise to the church from            some other
quarter ; for God will build up Zion, and appear in
his glory.

     The Theological Institution we consider, as the re-
sidence of Christian love and harmony, and the resi-
dence, we hope, of the Sun of Righteousness, who will
make it a light of the church, and a distinguished lu-
minary in our hemisphere.
     Finally, while   we survey the gloomy state of the
church and the world, in connexion with the numerous
embarrassments and disadvantages, under which theo-
logical students labor, while qualifying themselves for

the ministry ;   we cannot but hail the rising Institution
which will    afford the indigent opportunity to         pursue
their studies several years    without expense ; and will
readily embrace those, who choose to defray the ex-
                             48

pense of their theological education.      Under the pat-
ronage of Christ, to whom the Institution is dedicat-
ed,   we cannot but entertain a pleasing hope, that it
will flourish ;   and that it will meet the cordial appro-
bation of well informed Christians, and realize the in-
effable benefit of their devout and persevering prayers.
                           THE

                    STATUTES
                          OF THE

            ASSOCIATE FOUNDATION
                          IN THE

        THEOLOGICAL INSTITUTION
                            IN

                      ANDOVER.



Seriously reflecting upon the fatal effects of the
apostasy of man without a Savior, on the merciful ob-
ject of the Son of God in assuming our nature and

dying for our salvation, and upon the wisdom of his
appointment of an order of men to preach his Gospel
in the world ;   considering also that, notwithstanding
this appointment, by far the greatest part of the human

race is still perishing for lack of vision, and that even
in countries, where the   Gospel    is   enjoyed, infidelity,
error, and immorality greatly abound ;       feeling   it   to be

our duty to conspire with the benevolent design of this
appointment, and being desirous of contributing ac-
cording to our ability toward      its   success, and of ex-
pressing in this imperfect manner our sense of obliga-
tion to our compassionate   Redeemer         ;
                                                 We, Moses
Brown and William Bartlet, both of Newbury
Port, Merchants, and John Norris of Salem Esquire,
                                     50

all   of the County of Essex and Commonwealth of Mas-
sachusetts, being influenced, as we hope,                by a princir
pie of gratitude to God and benevolence to man, have

determined to devote a part of the substance, with
which Heaven has blessed us, to the defense and pro-
motion of the Christian Religion, by making some
provision for increasing the number of learned and able
Defenders of the Gospel of Christ as well, as of or-
thodox, pious, and zealous Ministers of the New Tes-
tament        ;   and we do accordingly hereby give, assign,
and setovertothe Trustees ofPHiLLiPs Academy,
and to their successors in office, the sum of ten thou-
sand dollars each, amounting to thirty thousand dol-
lars ;       to   which sum      I   William Bartlet add the
farther sum of ten thousand dollars,* for the                  purpose
of supporting one of the two Professors, herein after
named, the whole amounting to forty thousand dollars,
in Sacred            Trust, as a capital Fund, to be disposed
of in the manner and for the purposes following                   ;   that

is to say, the said sum of money to be kept out at in-

terest on         good security, or otherwise in whole or in
part vested, as the said Trustees shall                 deem best, in
productive real estate, or in sure and permanent funds ;
and the interest or annual income of said capital Fund
to be applied to the maintenance of two Professors in
the Theological Institution or Seminary, late-
 ly founded in the          Town of Andover, and County afore-
 said ;       who shall, agreeably to the permanent Creed,
 herein after mentioned, faithfully teach that revealed
      *   To this sum an addition of ten thousand dollars has been made by
 the Founder since the execution of these Statutes.
                                                              ;



                                 51

Holy Religion only, which God constantly teaches man
by his glorious works of Creation, Providence, and
Redemption       ;   whose professional duties shall be as-
signed, according to the Constitution of the Seminary,
in such manner, as shall        most directly and effectually
promote the great object of the Institution         ;   reserv-

ing to ourselves the right jointly to make the first ap-
pointment of one of the said Professors, and to the said
William Bartlet severally, the right to make the
first appointment      of the other of the said Professors ;
and also toward the maintenance of such Students             in

Divinity, as may be proper candidates for gratuitous
support, and shall be approved and recommended by
the Board of Visitors, herein after constituted, or by a

committee of their appointment, agreeably         to the fol-

lowing Statutes, namely,
      First.     The Fund aforesaid shall be kept distinct
from all other property, to the same Trustees belong-
ing, being never blended therewith by loan or purchase

and their Treasurer shall accordingly keep all accounts
relative thereto in distinct books, and all     monies, evi-
dences of property, receipts, papers, and books of ac-
count, appertaining to said Fund, in a trunk, or chest,
prepared for prompt removal.
      Second.        Every Professor on the Associate
Foundation shall be a Master of Arts, of the Pro-
testant Reformed Religion, an ordained Minister of the

Congregational or Presbyterian denomination, and shall
sustain the character of a discreet, honest, learned, and

devout Christian      ;   an orthodox and consistent Calvin-
ist   ;   and, after a careful examination   by the Visitors
                                       52

with reference to his religious principles, he shall, on
the day of his inauguration, publicly                        make and sub-
scribe a solemn declaration of his faith in Divine Re-

velation,        and   in       the fundamental and            distinguishing
doctrines of the Gospel, as expressed in the following
Creed, which is supported by the infallible Revelation,
which God constantly makes of Himself in his works
of creation, providence, and redemption ; namely,
   I believe that there is one and but one living and true

Gon     ;    that the word of God, contained in the Scrip-

tures of the Old and New Testament, is the only per-
fect rule of faith and practice ;                  that agreeably to those

Scriptures God is a Spirit,                     infinite,   eternal,       and un-
changeable in his being, wisdom, power, holiness, jus-
tice,   goodness, and truth             ;       that in the Godhead are

three Persons, the Father, the Son, and the                                 Holy
Ghost        ;   am! that these        Three are One God, the
same        in substance,          equal in power and glory                  ;    that

God created man after his own image in knowledge,
righteousness, and holiness that the glory of God is
                                            ;



man's chief end, and the enjoyment of God his su-
preme happiness             ;   that this enjoyment is derived solely

from conformity of heart to the moral character and
will of     God    ;   that Adam, the federal               head and repre-
sentative of the human race, was placed in a state of

probation, and that in consequence of his disobedience
all his     descendants were constituted sinners                       ;   that    by
nature every man is personally depraved, destitute of
holiness, unlike            and opposed to God, and that pre-
viously to the renewing agency of the Divine Spirit
all his     moral actions are adverse to the character and
                                                                                               ;




                                                 53

glory of God                ;       that,   being morally incapable of re-
covering the image of his Creator, which was lost in
Adam, every man is justly exposed to eternal damna-
tion    ;       so that, except a man be born again, he cannot

see the kingdom of God                          ;    that God, of his mere good

pleasure, from all eternity elected some to everlasting
life,   and that he entered into a covenant of grace to
deliver them out of this state of sin and misery                                          by a
Redeemer                ;       that the only Redeemer of the elect is

the eternal Son of God, who for this purpose became
man, and continues to be God and man in two distinct
natures and one person forever                               ;   that Christ, as our

Redeemer, executeth the                             office       of a Prophet, Priest,
and King           ;    that, agreeably to the covenant of redemp-

tion, the         Son of God, and he                     alone,         by his suffering
and death, has made atonement for the sins of all men
that repentance, faith, and holiness are the personal re-

quisites in the Gospel                       scheme of salvation                    ;   that the

righteousness of Christ is the only ground of a sin-
ner's justification ;                   that this righteousness is received

through faith               ;       and that this faith           is   the gift of God ;
so that our salvation is wholly of grace                                 ;       that no means

whatever can change the heart of a sinner and make it
holy        ;   that regeneration and sanctification are effects of
the creating and renewing agency of the Holy Spirit,
and that supreme love to God constitutes the essential
difference             between          saints       and sinners             ;   that   by con-
vincing us of our sin and misery, enlightening our
minds, working                       faith in       us, and       renewing our            wills,

the Holy               Spirit makes us partakers of the                                 benefits
of redemption                   ;   and that the ordinary means, by which
                                          54

these benefits are communicated to us, are the word,
sacraments, and pra)- er             ;   that repentance unto life, faith

to feed upon Christ, love to God, and new obedience,

are the appropriate qualifications for the Lord's sup-

per    ;    and that a Christian Church ought to admit no
person to its holy communion, before he exhibit credi-
ble evidence of his godly sincerity                 ;       that perseverance

in holiness is the only              method of making our calling
and election sure        ;        and that the    final      perseverance of
saints, though        it is       the effect of the special operation

of God on their hearts, necessarily implies their                             own
watchful diligence            ;    that they, who are effectually cal-

led,       do in this life partake of justification, adoption,
and sanctification, and the       several benefits, which do

either accompany or flow                   from them         ;   that the souls

of believers are at their death made perfect in holiness,
and do immediately pass into glory                      ;   that their bodies,

being still united to Christ, will at the resurrection
be raised up to glory, and that the saints will be made
perfectly blessed in the full enjoyment of                        God to all
eternity ; but that the wicked will awake to shame and

everlasting contempt, and with devils be plunged into

the lake, that burnetii with fire and brimstone forever
and ever.        I   moreover believe that God, according to
the counsel of his own will, and for his own glory, hath
foreordained whatsoever comes to pass, and that                                all

beings, actions, and events, both in the natural and
moral world, are under- his providential direction                        ;   that

God's decrees perfectly consist with human liberty ;
God's universal agency with the agency of man and                         ;



man's dependence with his accountability                           ;   that   man
                                       55

has understanding and corporeal strength to do all, that
God requires of him       ;   so that nothing, but the sinner's

aversion to holiness, prevents his salvation                ;   that    it   is

the prerogative of Go d to bring good out of evil, and
that he will cause the wrath                and rage of wicked men
and devils to praise him           ;    and that all the evil, which
has existed, and which will forever exist in the moral
system, will eventually be                  made to promote a most
important purpose under the wise and perfect adminis-
tration of that   Almighty Being, who will cause all
things to work for his own glory, and thus fulfil all his
pleasure.   — And farthermore do solemnly promise
                                            I                               that

I will   open and explain the Scriptures                   to   my pupils
with integrity and faithfulness                 ;   that I will maintain

and inculcate the Christian faith, as expressed in the
Creed, by me now repeated, together with all the other
doctrines and duties of our holy religion, so far as may
appertain to my office, according to the best light, God
shall give me,    and in opposition, not only to Atheists
and Infidels, but to Jews, Papists, Mahometans, Arians,
Pelagians,    Antinomians,              Arminians,       Socinians,          Sa-

bellians,   Unitarians,       and Universalists,            and        to    all

heresies and errors, antient or                 modem, which may be
opposed to the Gospel of Christ, or hazardous to the
souls of men ;      that by            my instruction, counsel, and
example, I will endeavour to promote true Piety and
Godliness ; that I will consult the good of this Institu-
tion, and the peace of the Churches of                   our Lord Jesus
Christ on all occasions        ;       and that I will religiously con-
form to the Constitution and Laws of this Seminary,
 and to the Statutes of this Foundation.
                                                                   ;




                               56

   Third.      The preceding Creed and Declaration shall
be repeated by every Professor on             this   Foundation   at

the expiration of every successive period of five years
and no  man shall be continued a Professor on said
Foundation, who shall not continue to approve himself
a man of sound and orthodox principles in Divinity
agreeably to the aforesaid Creed.
  Fourth.          Professors on this Foundation shall be
allowed an honorable maintenance, regulated, as                cir-

cumstances may require, by the current prices of the
necessaries of life, agreeably to original contract.
  Fifth.      It is required, that    every public lecture be
preceded and followed by prayer           ;    that the Associate

Professors in their preaching to the Students of the
Institution   on the Lord's        Day be      devout, practical,
doctrinal, and pungent,       rather than        speculative   and
metaphysical   ;    and no Professor on          this   Foundation
shall ever preach for hire,    or take the pastoral charge

of any church or congregation.          And it is farthermore
expected, that the Professors        on this Foundation will
faithfully devote their time and talents, to qualify their

pupils for able ministers of the Gospel.             Beside, there-
fore,   guiding them in the peaceful ways of wisdom and
discretion by christian precept and example, directing

the course of their reading the Scriptures and other in-
structive books,      critically    inspecting and correcting
their theological compositions,       and teaching them the
appropriate style and      manner of pulpit address, it is
confidently expected, that the Professors confer with

them freely and frequently on those subjects, which are
calculated to expand and enrich the minds and hearts
                                 57

of theological Students, and prepare
                                            them for the work
of the Ministry.
      Sixth.       Upon the death, resignation, or removal of
                                   successor shall be
a Professor on this Foundation, a
chosen  by the Trustees aforesaid within six months,
                                                       their appro-
and the choice presented to the Visitors for
         But, if this choice be negatived, another
                                                   elec-
bation.

tion shall in like manner be presented,
                                                and toties quoties,

   an election be made, which shall be approved
                                                             by the
till

Visitors  and this within twelve months from the com-
               ;




mencement of a vacancy            in either of the said Profes-

 sorships.

       Seventh.        AH Applicants for the advantages of
                                                   letters of recom-
 this Foundation shall be introduced by
                                      influential characters,    and
 mendation from devout and
 shall exhibit      satisfactory evidence of their distinguish-

 ed abilities and gracious        sincerity ;   and by an exam-

 ination in the learned languages shall
                                           evince that in

 these respectsthey are qualified to enter upon theologi-
 cal studies.

       Eighth.        Every Applicant,     after    examination by
                                               herein af-
 the standing Committee, to be appointed as
                                                  of the
 ter provided, and after reading the Constitution

  Seminary and the Statutes of the Associate Founders,
  shall       make and subscribe the following Declaration,
  viz,    '
            Deeply impressed with the importance of an ex-
                                                     minis-
  1
       tensive fund of knowledge and prudence to the
  '
       terial character,   and of being correctly instructed in
   'the doctrines of the Gospel, and consequently
                                                                of at

       tending a regular course of theological education,
  *                                                       1


       solemnly promise, by the aid of divine grace, to Im-
                                         58

c
    prove in a faithful and christian manner the advanta-
'
    ges, furnished by this Institution ;              and to be uniiorm-
'
    ly subject to the authority and laws of the same, with
'
    a single view to my being qualified for the Gospel
'
    Ministry.'
        Ninth.         Strict and devout attention to the Sabbath

and all         stated solemnities is required of the Associate

Students          ;   and every neglect of the means of grace or
religious         improvement will be duly noticed by the
Professors.

        Tenth.          It is strictly     enjoined upon the Associate
    Students, to treat the Professors, Trustees, and Visitors
with due respect            ;    and each other and all persons with
friendship and decorum               ;   any failure in these and simi-
lar instances will              be deemed censurable ; and, if per-
    sisted in, a forfeiture of the            privileges of the Institu-

    tion.

    .     Eleventh.             Tuition and room shall be gratis to
    all   approved Applicants and Students on this Founda-
    tion ;      and other gratuitous aid, such as diet, fuel, light,
    washing, and lodging, shall be granted in whole or in
    part, according to the direction of the Visitors, and as

    the state of the said Funds may permit ; and                  no Stu-
    dent in the Seminary may ever be charged for the In-
    struction of any Professor on our Foundation.
          Twelfth. That the T r u s t aforesaid may be always
    executed agreeably to the true intent of this our Foun-
    dation ; and that we            may effectually guard the same
    in all future time           against    all   perversion, or the smal-

    lest avoidance         of our true design, as herein expres-
     sed    ;   we, the aforesaid Founders, do hereby constitute
                                     59

a board of Visitors, to be as in our place and stead
the Guardians,        Overseers, and Protectors of this our

Foundation in manner, as is expressed in the follow-
ing Provisions, that is to say,            We appoint and consti-
tute the Honorable Caleb Strong Esquire, late Gov-

ernor         Commonwealth of Massachusetts, the
            of the
Reverend Timothy Dwight D. D. President of
Yale College, and the Reverend Samuel Spring of
Newbury Port aforesaid Doctor of Divinity, Visitors
of the said Foundation           ;   who, with their successors in
office to     be chosen, as herein after directed, shall be a
perpetual body for this purpose, with all the powers and
duties in them herein vested and on them enjoined                       ;



but     we    do nevertheless reserve to ourselves the right
of visiting in connexion with the said Board, and dur-
ing our natural lives respectively, this our Foundation.
And we do moreover confer on Samuel Abbot Es-
quire,* one of the Founders of the Theological Insti-
tution aforesaid, the right of visiting this our Founda-
tion in the same manner with ourselves, during his na-

tural life ;    each of the said four Founders so long, as
he shall retain his seat at the Board, shall possess and
exercise      all   the rights and powers, herein given to a
Visitor of this Foundation            ;   though upon the resigna-
tion or demise of either of the said Founders his place

shall not be supplied by election of a Visitor to succeed

him     ;   and after the demise or resignation of the said
four persons, last above named as Founders, the said
Board shall never consist of more than three members                    ;




  *   Who had previously resigned his scat at the Board of Tr vstef.f
                                  60

and it is farther expressly provided, that the perpetual
Board of Visitors, first herein named, shall consist of
two Clergymen and one Layman, all of whom shall be
men of distinguished talents and piety.
 Thirteenth. We do farther provide and ordain that
no person shall be eligible, as a Visitor, under the age
of forty years ; nor shall any person, except the seven

herein just named, hold the office of Visitor after the
                                    .




age of seventy years ; and whenever, with the excep-
tion aforesaid,       any Visitor       shall    have completed the
sixty-ninth year of his age, the Board shall, within the
year next ensuing choose some suitable person to suc-
ceed him       ;   but the Visitor elect shall not take his seat
at the Board, before his said              Predecessor     shall   have
completed his seventieth year, or formally resigned his
office of Visitor ;      and no resignation of any member
at an earlier age shall       be accepted by this Board, be-
fore a Successor shall have been chosen.

   Fourteenth.             The Board of Visitors shall meet on
the seventeenth day of May next at Andover, and ever
after,   once in every year, at the aforesaid Theolog-
ical Institution, to execute the business of their
appointment, on such day, as they shall assign                 ;   also

upon emergencies, when called thereto, as herein after
directed and a majority of the Visitors, when regular-
           ;



ly convened, shall        be a Quorum, of which Quorum a
major part shall have power to transact the business of
their Commission ; and incase of an equi-vote, the ques-

tion shall determine on that side,              on which the presid-
ing member shall have voted.
                                                                 ;




                                 61

   Fifteenth.         There shall be annually chosen, b}
ballot, a   President and Secretary, as Officers of the
Board, out of their own number           ;   who shall continue
in their respective offices, till their places be supplied

by new elections      ;   and, upon the decease of either of
them, another shall be chosen in his room at the next
meeting.
   Sixteenth. The President, or in case of his death,
resignation, or absence from the country, the Secretary,

shall,   upon all necessary      occasions, call special meet-
ings of the Board     ;   and   his notifications shall express

the business to be transacted at such meetings, and be
given as early as possible.        In the absence of the Pre-
sident, at any meeting, the Secretary shall preside.

   Seventeenth.             The Secretary shall keep a fair re-
cord of all the transactions of the Visitors at every
meeting of the Board, inserting the names of the mem-
bers present   ;   and in his absence another shall be ap-
pointed in his room.
  Eighteenth. The Visitors shall remove any Mem-
ber of their Board for immorality, incapacity, or ne-
glect of duty.

  Ninetee nth.            Upon the death, resignation, or re-
moval of a Visitor, except only upon the demise or re-
signation of a Founder, the Board of Visitors shall at
their next meeting, by ballot, elect another in his stead

and ever after, from time to time, as a vacancy shall take
place in this Board, they shall supply          it   ;   and every
person so elected, previously to taking his seat at the
Board, shall make and subscribe the following De c lar-
                                                                         ;




                                   62

at ion, namely,       '   Approving the Statutes of the afore-
said Theological           Institution, and those of the           Asso-
'
    ciate Founders,   I    solemnly declare, in the presence
'of God and of this Board, that                 I will faithfully exert

*
    my abilities to carry into execution the Statutes of
*
    the said Founders, and to promote the great object
1
    of the Institution.'      And he shall moreover in like
manner subscribe the same                   theological Creed,     which
every Professor elect        is   required to subscribe        ;   and a
declaration of his faith in the              same Creed shall be re-
peated by him at every successive period of five years ;
and, if in the course of events the number of Visitors
shall    by any special providence of God be reduced to
one, the remaining Visitor shall have power to appoint
one suitable person to be a Visitor of this Foundation
and these two Visitors shall at their first regular meet-
ing supply the remaining vacancy                  in the Board.

     Twentieth.            The power and duties of the Board
of Visitors, thus constituted and organized,                  shall     be
as follows ;      namely, to      visit      the Foundation once in

every year, and       at   other times,        when regularly called
thereto ; to inquire into the state of this our Fund, and
the     management of this Foundation with respect both
to Professors      and Students         ;    to determine, interpret,

and explain the Statutes of this Foundation in all cases,
brought before them in their judicial capacity                ;    to re-

dress grievances both with respect to Professors and Stu-
dents    ;   to hear appeals from decisions of the Board of

Trustees, and to remedy upon complaint, duly exhibit-
ed in behalf of the said Professors or Students                     ;   to
                                                                    ;




                                                 Trus-
review and reverse any censure, passed by said
                                      this Foundation
tees upon any Professor or Student on

to. declare    void all rules and regulations, made by the
said Trustees, relative to this Foundation,
                                                which may be

inconsistent with the original Statutes thereof ; to take

care, that the duties of      every Professor on this Foun-

dation be intelligibly and faithfully discharged, and to
admonish or remove him, either for misbehaviour, he-
terodoxy,       incapacity, or neglect of the    duties of his

office ;     to examine into the proficiency of the Students,

and to admonish, suspend, or deprive any Student for
negligence, contumacy, or any heinous crime, commit-
ted against the laws of God or the Statutes of this
 Foundation     and in general, to see that our true in-
                  ;



 tentions as expressed in these our Statutes, be faithfully-

    executed, always administering justice impartially, and
    exercising the functions of their office in the fear of
    God, according to the said Statutes, the Constitution
    of this Seminary, and the Laws of the land.
      Twenty-first.          Every election of a Professor oh
    this Foundation shall within ten    days be presented to
    the Visitors, who are hereby vested with the power and

    right of approving or negativing, at a regular meeting,

    every such election.     But, if any such election be not
'

    either   approved or negatived by the        said   Visitors,

     within twelve months from the       commencement of a
     vacancy in any Professorship, such election            shall       be

     considered, as approvedby the Visitors, and shall ac-,
     cordinelv be deemed constitutional and valid provid-
                                                        ;




     ed always, that such election shall have been regularly
                                       64.


communicated to the President or Secretary of the
Board of Visitors ten days               at least    previously to the
expiration of the twelve months aforesaid.
      Twenty -second.                The Visitors shall appoint a
standing Committee, to ascertain the qualifications of
Applicants           for   the    advantages of this        Foundation.
Those, whom they approve, may be recommended for
admission,           as resident Applicants           on   trial   for   two
months     ;       and, if at the expiration of this term the Fa-
culty approve them, they may be placed on the                       list   of
resident Students, till the next annual meeting of the
Visitors       ;   and, if upon examination by the Board of
Visitors they be then approved, they shall be register-
ed, as Associate Students ; but, if not approved by the

Visitors after careful examination and the best infor-
mation respecting them, they                 shall   be dismissed from
the Foundation.
      Twenty-third.                 No Applicants, except Congre-
gationalists and Presbyterians, shall                be admitted upon
this Foundation ;          .   and a College education shall be ever
deemed an essential condition of admission, except on-
ly in some rare case              of distinguished talents, informa-
tion,   and piety.
      Twenty-fourth.     At all meetings of the Visitors
decent entertainment shall be made by the direction of
the Board, and at the expense of the Foundation ; and
all   other necessary expenses, attending the management
of this Foundation, shall be defrayed out of the income
of the said Fund.
      Twenty-fifth.                The Board of Visitors in all their
                               65

proceedings are to be subject to our Statutes herein ex-
pressed, and to conform their measures thereto ;                and,
if they shall at any   time act contrary thereto, or exceed
the limits of their jurisdiction and constitutional power,

the party aggrieved     may have recourse by appeal to
the Justices of the     Supreme Judicial Court of this
Commonwealth, for the time being, for remedy, who
are hereby appointed and authorized to judge in such

case, and, agreeably to the determination of the major

part of them, to declare null and void any decree or
sentence of, the said Visitors, which upon mature con-
sideration they may deem contrary to the said Statutes,

or beyond the just limits of their power, herein pre-
scribed   ;   and by the said Justices of the Supreme Ju-
dicial Court for the time being shall the said Board of

Visitors at all times be subject to be restrained and

corrected in the undue exercise of their office.
  Twenty-sixth.           Every annual meeting of the
Board of Visitors shall be introduced with prayer, after
which these Statutes shall be read by the President.
  Twenty-seventh.             It   is   strictly    and solemnly
enjoined, and left   in sacred charge, that every article

of the above said Creed shall forever remain entirely
and identically the same, without the              least alteration,

addition, or diminution.     But we reserve to ourselves
the right, as Founders, jointly to make, in concurrence
with the said Trustees, and within the term of seven
years, such amendments or additional articles, in per-

fect consistence with the true object       of these Statutes,
as upon experience and due consideration shall be deem-
                              66

ed necessary the more        effectually to secure and pro-

mote the real design of this our Foundation.
  Twenty-eighth.             Though    the   Founders,      first

above named, coalesce with the Founders of the afore-
said   Theological Institution,              in   the    manner
herein described, with a view      more effectually to pro-
mote the cause of Evangelical Truth, and with an ar-
dent hope, that the coalition will terminate in a perfect
and indissoluble union   ;   yet, if after an experiment of

seven years coalition, upon Visitatorial principles,           it


shall appear to the Board of Visitors, that the Visitato-

rial system is either unsafe    or inexpedient ; the coali-

tion may nevertheless be continued        upon such other
principles, or system, as may be then agreed on by the

Trustees and Visitors aforesaid, in consistency with the
original design of this our Foundation            ;   or the said
Visitors may withdraw the said Fund, (the said Trus-
tees however not to be responsible for any unavoidable

loss from depreciation of the current medium, or from

the Providence of God,) as upon mature consideration
may to them appear most conducive to the glory of
God.     Or, if at any time within the said term of seven
years, contrary to our   most sanguine expectation, the
said Visitors shall by the Trustees aforesaid be denied
or deprived of the regular and proper exercise of the
power, authority, rights, or privileges in them hereby
vested, agreeably to the true meaning of these our Sta-

tutes ; then the said Fund (saving any unavoidable loss,

as above expressed) shall revert to the said Visitors, to
be appropriated by them, as they shall judge most con
                                67

sistent with the original design of this    our Foundation.
But,   if at the   expiration of the seven years' experiment,

or within the said term of seven years, the Board of
Visitors and the Trustees aforesaid be well satisfied

with the safety and expediency of the Visitatorial sys-
tem, and that a perpetual coalition is important and de-
sirable ;   Union shall be established upon Visitatorial
principles, to continue, as the Sun and Moon, forever.

   Confiding in the prudent and faithful inspection of
our Visitors, and in the wisdom and fidelity of the said
Trustees    ;   and with the pleasing hope, that they     will

religiously appropriate the      income of the Fund afore-
said to the great object of this Foundation, as herein
described, agreeably to the Statutes herein contained ;
we do, under God, cheerfully commit this our Foun-
dation to their pious care, under the limitations before
mentioned, trusting that no exertion on their part will
be wanting to the success of an Institution, so intimate-
ly connected with the salvation of men and the glory

of God.
   To the Spirit of truth, to the divine Author of
our faith, to the only wise God, we desire in sincerity
to present this our humble offering, devoutly imploring

the Father of lights richly to          endue with wisdom
from above all his servants, the Visitors of this Foun-
dation and the Trustees of the Seminary,            and with
spiritual   understanding the Professors therein      ;   that,

being illuminated by the Holy Spirit, their doctrine
may drop as the rain, and that their Pupils may become
                                6S

trees of renown in the Courts of our God, whereby   Hz
mav be scorified.
   In witnc - -     reof we have hereunto set our hands

and seals this twenty first day of March, in the year of
our Lord one thousand eight hundred and eight.

                        MOSES BRO\ X.             (S.)

                        WILLIAM BARTLET,          (S.)

                        JOHN NORMS.               (S.)
Signed, scaled, and delivered
  in the presence of

  SAMUEL SPRING,
  JED1DIAE MORSE.
    *




.
                                                  tpm
                                                  ^s-j6sisi




                           ft




                               >   ;




                                                               2^*
                      Si

                  *        €




                           ,18*
                                                                   **


                                                  t




     <2    «?
                                            ."'




                                                                     --C




                                       r.
                                                       ^1 **?*


                                        .
                                              V               "^

          ,<a*r




I:
